रजिस्ट्री ०ी -222 


REGISTI RED No. D . 222 


ANE 


भारतका राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- . . - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


सं० 17] नई दिल्ली, शनिवार, अरैल 23, 1966/ वैशाख 3, 1888 
No. 17 ) NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, APRIL 23, 1966 / VAISAKHA 3 , 1888 
-- - - - - 

- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - 
इस भाग में भिन्न पष्ठ संख्या वी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Soparate paging is given to this part in order that it may be filed 

____ as a separate compilation. 


- - - - 


- 


-- 


नोटिस 


NOTICE 


नीने लिखे भारत के असाधारण राजपत्र 7 अप्रैल, 1966 तक प्रकाशित किये गये । 

The undermentioned Gazetcs of India Extrcdinary wize fullisl edip to the 7th 
April , 1966 : 

- - . .. - - - -- -- - 


Iszuc 


No, und Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. 


58 G . S . R . 490 , Gared ist April, Ministry ol Latour , Em - The Andhra Pradesh Coal Mines 
1066 . 

ployment & Rehabilita - Provident Fund ( First Aniend 
tion . 

mcut ) Scheme, 1966. 


Do. 


G . S . R . 491, dated 1st April, 

1966 . 


The Rajasthan Coal Mines Pro 
vident Fund (First Amendment) 
Scheme, 1966 . 


Do. 


G . S .R . 492 , dated 1st April , 

1966 . 


The Coal Mines Provident Fund 
( First Amendment) Scheme, 
1966 . 


59 


G . S . R . 493rdated Ist April , 
1966 . 


Ministry of Eternal Affairs Application of the provisions of 

Extradition Act , 1962 , other 
1han Chapter III · thereof , 
to the United States of America 

w .c .f. Ist day of April , 1966 . 
- - - - . .. . -- - - -- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


( 649 ) 


650 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 /VAISAKHA % , 1888 


(PART II 


Issue 
No. 


No.and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


Subject 


60 G . S. R . 334 , dated 1st April, 

1966 . 


Ministry of Finance , 


Extending of the provisions of 

Chapter VII of the Central 
Excise Rules , 1944 to tyres for 
motor vehicles . 


Do. 


G . S . R . 535 , dated 1st April , 

1966 . 


Do. 


Provisions relating to the re 

moval of goods, without pay 
ment of duty from one ware 
house to another, 


Do. 


G .S .R . 536 , dated 1st April , 

1966 . 


Amendment in the notification 

NO. CER - 8 ( 28 ) / 56 , dated , 5th 
January , 1957. 


G .S . R . 537 , dated 18t April , 

1966 . 


Do . 


Exempting hoisery being cotton 

fabrics from the duty leviable 
thercon , specified in the 
table . 


Do. 


G . S . R . 538 , dated 1st April , 

1966 . 


Exempting hosiery being cotton 

fabrics from the duty of 
excise payable thereon as speci 
fied in the table . 


Do, 


61 G .S .R .539 , dated 3th April, 

1966 . 


Exempting Iligh Carbon Steel 

Sheets from the additional 
duty which is leviable there 
on , 


62 G . S . R . 540 , dated 6th April , Ministry of Petroleum 
1966 . 

and Chemicals . 


The Kerosene ( Firation of Ceil 

ing Prices ) Order, 1966 . 


Do. 


G .S .R . 541 , dated 6th April, 

1966 . 


The Kerosene (Price Control) 

Cessation Order, 1966 . 


63 G . S . R . 542, dated 7th April , 

1966 . 


Ministry of Law . 


Amendment in the notification 
No. G . S . R . 866 , dated 15th 
June, 1964 


ऊपर लिखे मसाधारण राजपत्रों की प्रतियो प्रकाशन प्रबन्धक, सिविल लाइन्स , दिल्ली के माम 
मागपत्र भेजने पर भेज पी जाएंगी । मांगपत्र प्रबन्धक के पास न राजपत्रों के जारी होने की तारीख 

10 447 TT TT HITTA ENE1 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 


Soc . $ (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


651 


WM II- 3-59003 ( i) 

PART II — Section 3 - Sub -section (1) 
(रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संघ राज्य -पोत्रों के प्रशासनों को 

छोड़कर ) *न्त्रीप प्राधिकारियों द्वारा आरी किए गए विधि के अन्तर्गत बनाएं और जारी किये 

गये साधारण नियम (जिनमें साधारण प्रकार के आवश, उप -नियम आदि सम्मिलित है ) । 
General Statutory Rules ( including orders , bye-lawg etc. of a general 

character ) issued by the Ministries of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central Authorities (other than 
the Administrations of Union Territories ) . 


MINISTRY OF LAW 
(Department of Legal Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 1st February 1966 
G . S . R , 585 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 299 01 
the Constitution , and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Law No. G . S . R . 1181 dated the 1st December , 1958 , the President 
hereby directs that the undermentioned contracts and assurances of property made 
in the exercise of the executive power of the Union may be executed on his behalf 
as follows: 

I. In the case of all Ministries / Departments of the Central Government includ 
Ing their attached and subordinate oices , the Cabinet Secretariat, the President s 
Secretariat, the Prime Ministers Secretariat , Union Public Service Commission , the 
Election Commission , Central Vigilance Commission and the Secretariat of either 
House of Parliament: 

A . 1 . Contracts and other instruments relating to advances granted to Govern 
ment servants or the purchase of motor cars , motor cycles , cycles , or houses or for 
building houses, or for medical attendance and treatment or for festivals , marriages , 
funerals or other ceremonies or for relief against floods, etc ., or advances of pay 
and travelling allowance on transfer and tour, or advances of pay to persons pro 
ceeding on deputation abroad , or advances in respect of the Travel Concession 
Scheme during regular leave; where the advance is sanctioned by a Department of 
the Central Gorernment, by an officer empowered to authenticate orders and other 
instruments under clause ( 2 ) of article 77 of the Constitution and in other cases bv 
the authority sanctioning the advance . 

Provided that such contracts and other instruments may also be executed in the 
cases of the Central Public Works Department and Directorate General Supplies 
and Disposals by the Director of Administration in the respective Departments , in 
case of the Central Water and Power Commission by the Secretary to the Commis 
sion in the case of the Central Vigilance Commission by an under Secretary in the 
Commission and in case of the Intelligence Bureau by the Joint Director ( E ) or 
Deputy Director ( E ) at Headquarters and in the case of Defence Accounts Depart 
ment by the Controllers of Defence Accounts or, in their absence , by the Joint 
Controllers of Defence Accounts . Provided further that in the case of an Indian 
Mission or post in a foreign country , such contracts and instruments may also be 
executed by the head of the Mission or post . 

Explanation . The term " Head of a Mission or Post" Includes a High Commis 
sioner , a Deputy High Commissioner , an Assistant High Commissioner , a Commis 
bioner, an Assistant Commissioner, an Ambassador, a Minister , a Representative, a 
Charge d Affairs , a Consul-General, a Consul and a Trade Agent. 

2 . Contracts and other instruments in respect of accommodation provided in 
rented buildings (1) for catering in hostels and tiffin rooms ( il) for the protection of 
conveyances belonging to the staff working in such rented buildings and ( ii ) for 
co - operative stores / societies / banks / canteens run by employees associations / socie 
ties , by the Head of Department / Office which is in occupation of the buildings and 
is responsible for the payment of municipal taxes etc . 

3. Indemnity Bonds relating to conveyance and transport at Government expense 
of families and personnel effects of government servants who dle while in service , 
by the Head of Office under whom the deceased government servant last served . 


62 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


[PART T 


4 . Contracts and other instruments relating to the 
(1) payment of advance subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers , inaga 

zines, periodicals etc . 
( li) purchase , supply and conveyance or carriag ) of materials, store and 

machinery ; 
by the Head of Office concerned . 
5 . (1) Instruments relating to the re -assignment of insurance policies assigned to 

the Governor General before the 26th January , 1950 and the President 
on or after that date in accordance with the rules regulating the 
Workmen s Contributory Provident Fund from which the policy 13 
financed ; by the Accounts Oncer of the Fund as defined in the rules 

of the Fund . 
(11) Instruments relating to the assignment of Insurance policies in favour of 

President in accordance with rules regulating the Workmen Contribu 
tory Provident Fund from which the policy is financed ; by the Accounts 

Officer of the Fund as defined in the rules of the Fund . 
B , 1, Surety bonds relating to the grant of pension to Government servants or 
provisional pension to displaced Government servants ; by the 11thorities sanction 
ing the pension or provisional pension . 

2 . Security Bonds of Cashier s and other Government servants and / or their 
suretles to secure the due execution of an office or the duo accounting for money 
or other property received by virtue thereof, by the Head of office concerned . 

C . Pledge and release of Postal Savings certificate and Post Onice Savings Bank 
Accounts as security by only those Gazetted Officers of the Central Government 
who for due performance of their duties, ane required to accept and release secu 
rities . 

D . All guarantee undertakings to pay water & electric charges to the Delhi 
Municipal Corporation /New Delhi Municipal Committee on behalf of the govern 
ment servants ( including gazetted officers) etc , employed in the Central Govern 
ment; by the Head of Office r oncerned . 

E All instruments appointing attorneys and Counsel; by the officers empowered 
to authenticate orders & other instruments under clause ( 2 ) of article 77 of the 
Constitution . 

II. IN THE CASE OF MINISTRY OF COMMERCE : 
1 . (i ) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase , supply and conveyance 

or carriage of materials , stores, machinery ; 
(1 ) Security bonds for due performance and completion of work and all 

service agreements and security bonds for due performance of their 

duties by Government servants ; 
by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce . 

2 . Leases of houses, land or other immovable property ; by a Deputy Secretary 
to the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce. 

3 . Miscellaneous contracts and instruments ; by a Deputy Secretary to the Gov 
ernment of India in the Ministry of Commerce . 

4 . All contracts in respect of participation in an International Fair / Exhibition 
or organisation of an Indian Exhibition abroad in a country where there is no 
Indian Mission ; by the Officer heading the Exhibition team from India . 

5 . All contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance sub 
scriptions for the purchase of newspapers , magazines , periodicals etc., by Deputy 
Director (Commercial Publicity ) and Director (Commercial Publicity ) and a Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce , the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports , the Director General of Commercial Intelligence 
and Statistics, Jute Commissioner , Deputy Director (Erecutive and Financial) in 
the office of the Jute Commissioner, Secretary Taril Commission and Secretary 
Forward Markets Commission , and Director of Research , Central Sericultural 
Research Station . 
6 . ( 1) Bonds and guarantees submitted by importers or exporters in connection 

with the clearance or export of goods for the due fullilment of condi 

tions imposed on the importers or exporters ; 
by the Chief Controller of Imports and exports , Joint Chief Controllers , Imports 
and Exports, Deputy Chief Controllers of Imports and Exports , Import Trade Con 
trollits , Exports Trade Controllers , Controllers of Imports and Erports und Jute 
Com hissioner , 


SEC . $ (1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 653 

= = = = = = = = 
( il) Bonds and guarantee submitted by licencees in connection with the 

licences for import or installation of textile machinery and automatic 
looms for the due fu Alment of the conditions relating to the export of 

textile goods imposed on the licencees ; 
by on Under Secretary , Branch Secretariat ( Textiles Ministry of Commerce , 
Bombay , Joint Textile Commissioner , Deputy Textile Commissioner , Industrial 
Adviser and tironcio Joint Textile Commissioner and Director izz the office of the 
Textile Commissioner, Bombay . 

( iii ) Agreements with Mills in connection with the allotment of cotton ; 
by the Joint / Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, Bombay. 
All contracts and instruments relating to matters connected with the appoint 

ment of a commercial Advertising Agent or Agents for securing com 
mercial advertisements fur publication in the Weekly Bulletin of 

Import and Export trade control; 
by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 

7 . Al contracts and assurances of property relating to matters falling within 
their adirinistrative jurisdiction ; by the Textile Commissioner or the Joint Textile 
Commnissioner , Industrial Adviser or the Cotton Adviser or the Directors of the 
Textile Commissioner s Organisation . 

8 . Contract for work relating to the printing of Forward Markets Bulletin ; by 
the Secretary , Foru ard Markets Commission , Bombay . 
9. (i) Security bond in connection with the employment of Cashier of the Tariff 

Commission ; by the Secretary . Tariff Commission . 
( il) Service Agreements; by the Administrative Officer in the Tariff com 

mission . 
10 . ( 1) Security bonds in contiection with the employment of Cashier and other 

subordinates of the Department of Commercial Intelligence and 
Statistie s , Calcutta , ho are required to handle Government money in 

the course of their chcial duty ; 
( ii ) Contracts or other instruments for the purchase , suppy and conveyance 

of furniture and stores , in the Departinent of Commercial Intelligence 

and Statistics , Calcutta ; 
by the Director General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics. 

11 , Security bonds of Cashiers and other Government servants or their sureties 
to ensure the cue execution of an office or the due accounting for money or other 
property received by virtue thereof; by the Secretary , Forward Market Commission , 
12 . (1 ) Security Bunds ( in Ficielity Guarantee Bonds ) for due pertormance of 

their dutios lay store -keeper , and cashlers of the Central Sericultural 

Research Station , 
(11) Service Agreements ; 
by the Director of Rescarch , Central Sericultural Research Station . 
13. ( 1) Agreements with the Gujarat Electricity Board for the supply of Elec 

trical Energy , payment of charges on account of consumption of Elec 
trical Energy used in the Kandla Free Trade Zone and also for pay 
ment of cost of changing of one circuit of the II KV Town feeder and 
laying second circuit and the cost of high tension lines to be laid 

within the Zone area for industrial purposes ; 
( ii) Lease Deeds for allotment of plot (s ) Slcd ( s ) for setting up Industries in 

the Kandla Free Trade Zone; 
by the Adininistrator , Kandla Free Trade Zone , Gandhidham (Kutch ). 

III. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE : 
A , General Instruments and Contracts : 

1 . Orders and other instruments made and cxecuted in the case of Ministry of 
Defence Secrctariat, Inter - Service Organisations and Armed Forces Headquarters . 
( i) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase, hire, repair , binding, 

polishing , painting , washing supply, clearance and conveyance or 
carriage of materials including water , electricity, furniture, stores, 
machinery ; by an Under Secretary / Deputy Secretary iu the Govern 
ment of India in the case of the Ministry of Defence , by the Chief 
Administrative Officer of the Assistant Chief Administrome Officer , 


654 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA ), 1888 


[PART 11 


Ministry of Defence in the case of Army Headquarters and Inter 
Service Organisations; by the Naval Secretary in the case of Naval 
Headquarters and the Deputy Director of Organisation and Estab 

lishment in the case of Air Headquarters , 
( ) Contracts relating to the disposal of waste paper , obsolete and waste 

stores ; by an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the case 
of the Ministry of Defence ; Oy the Chief Administrative Oficer , Min 
istry of Defence , in the case of ATMy Headquarters and Inter -Service 
Organisations, by the Naval Secretary in the case of Naval Head 
quarters and the Deputy Director of Organisation and Establishment 
in the case of Air Headquarters . 


( ili ) Contracts for supply of labour and thelas ; by an Under Secretary to 

the Government of India in the case of the Ministry of Defence , by 
the Chief Administrative Officer or the Assistant Chief Administrative 
Officer , Ministry of Defence , in the case of Army Headquarters and 
Inter - Service Organisations, by the Naval Secretary in the case of 
Naval Headquarters and the Deputy Director of Organisation and 

Establishment in the case of Air Headquarters . 
( lv ) Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Govern 

mpent servants ; by an Under Secretary to the Government of India 
in the case of Ministry of Defence; by the Chief Administrative Officer, 
OT the Assistant Chief Administrative Officer , Ministry of Defence , in 
the case of Army Headquarters and Inter - Service Organisation ; by the 
Naval Secretary in the case of Naval Headquarters and the Deputy 
Director of personnel (Airmen ) in the case of Air Headquarters . 


( v ) Undertaking guarantee to the payment of water and electric charges 

to the New Delhi Municipal Committee etc ., in case of default , with 
respect to building allotted by Government on behalf of the Govern 
ment servants ( including Gazetted Officers ) employed in the Ministry 
of Defence Secretariat, Armed Forces Headquarters and Inter - Service 
Organisations, who are in occupation of Government accommodation ; 
by an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the case of the 
Ministry of Defence , by the Officer Supervisor in the Chief Adminis 
trative Officer s office in the case of Ariny Headquarters and Inter 
Service Organisations ; by the Naval Secretary in the case of Naval 
Headquarters and by the s . o . II /Officer Supervisor concerned in the 
case of Alt Headquarters . 


( vl) (a ) Leases agreements relating to hiring of houses for the Defence 

Pool, catering and renting of shops and other establishments in 
Hostels /Messes in the Defence Pool; by the Chief Administrative 
Officer or the Assistant Chief Administrative Oilcer , Ministry of 
Defence, and 


( b ) Agreements relating to catering in tilfin Tooms, licensing of fruit / 

betel stalls and cycle stands in offices ; by the Chief Administrative 
Officer of the Assistant Chief Administrative Officer, Ministry of 
Defence , in the case of Army Headquarters and Inter - Service 
Organisations; by the Naval Secretary in the case of Naval Head 
quarters and by the Camp Commandant, Air Headquarters in the 
case of Air. Headquarters . 


( vi ) Agreements , surety bonds and mortgage bonds in respect of advances 

granted to civilian Government servants employed in the Ministry 
of Defence Secretarlat, Armed Forces Headquarters and Inter - Scrvice 

Organisations: - - 
( a ) For purchase of cycles; by an Under Secretary to the Government of 

India in the Ministry of Defence ; by the Oficer Supervisor in the 
Chief Administrative Officer Supervisor in the Chief Administra 
tive Officer s office in the case of Army Headquarters and Inter 
Service Organisations; by the Naval Secretary in the case of Naval 
Headquarters and bv the Director of Accounts in the case of Air 

Headquarters, 
(b ) For purchase of motor vehicles ; by an Under Secretary to the Gov 

ernment of India in the Ministry of Defence ; by the Assistant Chley 
Administrative Officer , Ministry of Defence , in the case of Army 


SEG $( )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1960 /VALSAKHA 8, 1888 


655 


Headquarters and Inter - Service Organisations, by the Naval Secre 
tary in the case of Naval Headquarters and by the Director of 

Accounts in the case of Air Headquarters. 
( c ) From General Provident Fund for building houses and contracts for 

the reconveyance of property bo assigned or mortgaged in favour 
of Government; by an Under Secretary to the Government of India 
in the case of Ministry of Defence; by the Assistant Chief Adminis 
trative Officer, Ministry of Defence in the case of Army Headquar 
ters and Inter - Service Organisations; by the Naval Secretary in 
the case of Naval Headquarters and by the Deputy Director of Per 

sonnel ( Airmen ) in the case of Air Headquarters . 
( viii) All service agreements ; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of 

India in the case of Ministry of Defence ; by the Chief Administrative 
Officer , Ministry of Defence or the Assistant Chief Administrative 
Officer in the case of Armed Forces Headquarters and inter -Service 

Organisations 
(ix ) All contracts and other instruments relating to the sale and disposal of 

surplus stores of value not exceeding Rs. 5 ,000 in a single category 
and salvage and scrap without any limit ; by the Officer - in - Charge , 

SPDC , Bombay , 
2 . Agreements with clerks, copyists , draughtsmen , accountants , cashlers , agents 
and store - keepers whom the officer is empowered to appoint; by the Cominission 
ed or Gazetted Officer , 

3 . Contracts for the supply of hot weather establishments and other temporary 
labour; by the Officer Commanding a fully self -accounting unit, the Officer Com 
manding a Sanatorium , the Officer -in -Charge of a hospital, the Officer Command 
ing / Commandant Air Force Station Or Wing / College or the Air or other Officer 
Commanding a Coinmand or Group . 

4 . Contracts for petty supplies to hospitals ; by Officer - in - Charge of hospitals. 

5 . Cinema and external Conservancy contracts ; by the Officer Cominanding / 
Commandant of a Station / College / Unit . 

6 . Contracts for the services of shaving and hair - cutting in respect of JCOS / 
ORS / Boys /NC , ( E ) and corresponding ranks in the Air Force in Units in India ; 
by the Officers Commanding Units. 

7 . Contracts for the services of washing of clothes in respect of JCOs /ORS / 
Boys /NCS ( E ) and corresponding ranks in the Air Force in Units in India ; by the 
Officers Commanding Units. 


8 . Agreements entered into with all civilian gazetted staff employed under the 
administrative control of the Ministry of Defence excluding those under the Direc 
tor General of Ordnance Factories ; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Defence. 


9 . Agreements entered into with all civilian non - gazetted staft , unless other 
wise specifled in this notification ; by the officers authorised to appoint the persons 
concerned 


10 . All contracts and instruments relating to disposal of surplus and obgolete 
stores (other than controlled items of iron , steel exceeding Rs. 500 in book value 
in each category and textiles) located in India and belonging to the Defence Ser 
vices not exceeding Rs. 5 , 000 / - in value in a single category , and waste 
stores , that is, salvage and scrap , without any Imit ; by an Under Secretary 
to the Government of India in the case of Ministry of Defence, Officers Command 
ing , Supply Depots , Officers Commanding, Advance Base Supply Depots , Officer 
Commanding . Reserve Supply Depot, Officer Commanding Raithead Supply De 
pots , Officers Commanding , Reserve Petroleum Depots , Officers Commanding , 
Advance Base Petroleum Depots , Officers Commanding, Petroleum Contract Unit , 
Officers Commanding Supply / Petroleum Depots, Officers Commanding , Petroleum 
Platoons, Officers Commanding, Railhead Petroleum Depots, Officer Commanding, 
Animal Transport Regiments Companies, Director of Remount and Veterinary 
Services , Assistant Director , Remount and Veterinary Services, Director of Military 
Farms, Deputy Director of Military Farm3, Oficer - in - charge , Military Farms, 
Manager Young Dry Stock Farm , Incharge , Military Farm Depot, Incharge, Fodder 
Bailing Depot, Officer Incharge (not a Junior Commissioned Officer ), Supply 
Points / Supply Sub -Depot, Master General of the Ordance , Director of Ordance 


656 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


[PART II 


Services, Brigadier ( Technical Stores , Deputy Director of Ordnance Set 
vices , Assistant Directors of Ordnance Services, Deputy Assistant Directory of 
Ordnance Services , Staff Captains of Ordnance Services , Commandants of Ordn 
ance Depots, Brigadiers Army Ordnance Corps, Command Headquarters, Com 
manders , Army Ordnance Corps , Chief Ordnance Officer, Officers Comnianding , 
Deputy Commandants of Ordnance Depots, Officers of the rank of Major and 
above of the Army Ordnance Corps, Chief Superintendent / Superintendent: Chief 
Inspector / Inspector / Assistant Inspector /Officer - in - charge in the case of Establish 
ments under Defence Production Organisation , Officer- in - charge of R & D Estab 
Zishment / Laboratory / Institute , Engineer - in - Chief, Director of Engineer, Stores 
and Plant, Chief Engineers of Commands, Chief Engineers, Naval Works, Air 
Force Worlcs, Explosive Factory Project, Tank Factory Project and Chief Engineer 
J & K , Deputy Chief Engineer where specially authorised by Chief Engineers, 
Commanders Wor * 

* ineers , ( including those Commanding 
Engineer Parks ) 

ri 

yineer Stores Depots , Senior Barrack 

ineer Stores Denotes 
Stores Officers , I 

• Engineers , Assistant Garrison Engi 
neers , Bartack Stores Oficers for the Indian Army , Director General, Armed 
Forces Medical Services, Deputy Director General (Equipment & Stores), Assistant 
Director General ( Provision ) and Officers Commanding , Armed Forces Medical 
Stores Depot, Commodore - in - charge , Cochin , Commodore East Coast , Vishakhupat 
namn the Resident Naval Officer Madras and Calcutta , the Commodore Superinten 
dent, Naval Dockyard , Bombay Base Victuulling Officers , Indian Navy , Naval 
Stores Officer / Deputy Naval Stores Officer ) Assistant Naval Stores Officer of Naval 
Store Depots , the Commanding Officer , INS . Valsura Jamnagar, Director of cquip 
ment / the concerned Joint Director of Equipment, the concerned Deputy Director 
of Equipment Air Headquarters, Commanding Officers of Air Force Depots Sta 
tions / Units , the Director General, Ordnance Factories , Additional Director Goneral, 
Ordnance Factories or the Deputy Director General, Ordinance Factories , or the 
Assistant Directors General, Ordnance Factories or the General Manager of Project 
Officer , Ordnance and Clothing Factories , or Managers or Deputy Managers or 
Assistant Managers of Ordnance and Clothing Factorles , General Managers, Heavy 
Vehicles Factory or Manager / Deputy Manager Heavy Vehicles Factory . 


11 . Contracts and other Instruments relating to allvances for the purchase of 
motor cars, niotor cycles and houses or for building houses: - 


In the case of advances granted to the members of the Armed Forces including 
civilians paid out of Defence Sevices Estimates : 


( a ) In the case of Army Formations: 


(i ) in the case of Army Headquarters and Inter - Service Organisations, 

Delhi/ New Delhi; by the Chief Administrative Oficer or the Assis 

tant Chief Administrative Officer , Ministry of Defence . 
(ii ) in the case of Formations/ Units other than those given in ( i) above 

and excepting items (iii ) to (vii ) below ; by the Oficer Command 

ing, Unit / Formation / Statiun . 
( iii ) in the case of Ordinance Units and Establishments ; by Commandants / 

Chief Ordnance Officert /Officers Coranding . 


(iv ) in the case of EME Units and Establishments; by Commandants /Officers 

Commanding. 
( v ) in the case of MES Formations; by Chief Engineers of Commands , 

Deputy Chief Engineers when specially authorised by Chief Engi 

neers and Commanders Wortes Engineers, 
( vi ) in the case of Engineer Centres and Units ; by Commandants of Engi 

neer Groups / Commander Engineers ; and 
( vii) in the case of College of Military Engineering ; by the Commandant of 

the College of Military Engineering . 
(b ) In the case of Naval Formations: 
(1) in the case of Service Officers in Naval Headquarters and I.N . S . India ; 

by the Commanding Oncer , I. N . S . India . 
( ii ) in the case of civilians in Naval Headquarter; by the Naval Secretary ; 

and 


Sit 8 (0)1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 3 , 1888 


65 


(ü ) in the case of Shore Establishments ; by Flag Officer, Bombay , Commo 

dore - in - Charge, Cochin , Commodore, East Coast , Vishakhapatnam , 
Comenodore Superintendent, I. N , Dockyard and Commundirg On 

cers , Shore Establishments , 
( c ) In the case of Air Force Formations : - 
(i) in the case of Air Force Stations /Units ( in respect of Service Officers, 

C .G . O . s and other entitled civilians employed in Units ) ; by Officer 

Commanding; and 
( ii) in the case of civilian personnel employed at the Air Headquarters; 

by the Deputy Director , Personnel ( Airmen ) Air Acadquarters. 
( d ) In the case of Establishments / Laboratories under the control of the 

Scientific Adviser to the Minister of Defence; by the Director / Deputy 
Director of Administration , R & D IIQ . Oficer in charge of Estublish 

ment /Laboratory . 
( e ) In the , case of establishments under the control of the Director General 

of Inspection ; by the DIA , DR & D (G ) / D of V / DPIL for advance for 
house buildiny purposes and the Chief Supdt. / Chief Inspector / lıspec 
tor / Assistant Inspector /Officer - in - Charge for adrance for the purchase 

of motor cars and motor cycles . 
( f) In the case of Heavy Vehicles Factory ; by the General Manager . 


12 . Contracts and other instrunients relating to printing in General or any 
other operation or jobs connected with printing , so far as authorised , from time 
to time, under the relevant rules / orders / instructions on the subject : - -- 


(a ) In the case of Army Formations : 
(i ) in the casc of Arny Headquarters and Inte : - Service Organisations, 

Delhi New De hi; by the Chief Administratina Ollicer , or the Assis 

tant Chicf 10muistrutile Officer , Ministry of Defence . . 
(ii) in the case of Formations /Units etc,, other than those given in ( i). 

above and excepting itens ( iii) to (vili ) below ; Uy the Commandant / 

Officer Communding , Unit /formation / Station / Establishment. 
( iiil in the casc OL 0 . dnau Units and Establishtrients : by the Com 

mar.dants /Chliej Ordnance Officer / Officers - in - Charge . 
(iv ) In the case of E .M .E . Units and Establishments; by Comunandants/ 

Oficers Commandiny . 
( v ) in the case of M .E . S . Formations ; hij C . E . / C . 11 . E .- in - Command . 
( vi) in the case of M .E . S . Regimental Units : by the Coinmandants of 

Engineer Giorps/ Commander Engineers . 
(vii ) in the case of M .E . S . Instructional Establishments ; by Commandant 

of G . M .E . 


( viii ) in the case of School of Signals, Mhow ; by the Commandant, School 

of Signals , Mhou . 
( b ) In the case of Naval Formations: - 
( i) in the case of Naval Headquarters, Delhi/ New Delhi; by Naval Sec 

tetary , and 
( 11) in the case of Shore Establishments ; hy Flag Officer , Boinbay , Com 

modore - in - Charge, Cochin , Commodore , East Coast , Vishakhapat 
nam , Conmodore Superintendent, I. N . Dockyurd and Commanding 
Officers , Shore Establishments. 


(c ) In the case of Air Force Formations : 
(i ) in the case of Air H auquarters ; by the Deputy Director of Organi 

sation and Establishments ; and 
(ii) in the case of Air Forcc Stations / Units by Officer Commanding. 


658 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


PART II 


( d ) In the case of Establishments /Laboratories under the control of the 

Scientific Adviser to the Minister of Defence ; by the Officer - in - charge 

of Establishment /Laboratory / Institute . 
( e ) In the case of establishments under the control of the Director General 

of Inspection ; by the Chief Supdt. / Chief Inspector / Inspector / Assistant 

Inspector / Officer -in - charge. 
( 1) In the case of Heavy Vehicles Factory , by the General Manager. 
13 . Agreements entered into with parents / guardians of boys admitted to the 
Sainik School, Dehra Dun ; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Defence or the Principal , Sainik School, Dehra Dun . 

14 . Contracts and other instruments relating to advances from the Defence 
Services Officers Provident Fund for the purchase or building of houses ; by the 
Director of the Deputy Director, Personnel Services , in the case of Army Officers, 
the Director of Supply Branch in the case of IN OMcers and the Director of 
Accounts , Air Headquarters in the case of Air Force Officers. 

16. Agreements in respect of the foreign civilian technicians einployed in the 
Air Force ; by the Indian Ambassador /High Commissioners stationed in the res 
pective countries , either with their companies or direct with them . 

18 . Contracts and other instruments required to be made in the United King 
dom , the United States of America , the U . S . S R . and France relating to the pur 
chase , supply and conveyance of carriage of materials, stores and machinery need 
ed for the Defence Services of India ; by the Military / Naval/ Air Adviser to the 
High Commissioner for India , London , Air Attache in the Embassy of Indir in 
Paris / Washington , Military and Naval/ Air Attaches in the Embassy of India in 
Moscow in so far as such contracts and other instruments relate to and fall with 
in their respective jurisdiction . 

B . Contracts and other instrumento for Services and Establishments under the 
Chief of the General Staff : 

1. Agreements entered into with parents / guardians of Cadets selected for ad 
mission to the National Defence Academy for initial training with a view to being 
commissioned in the Army, Navy or Air Force. 

2 . All contracts and other instruments relating to washing dyeing of mess 
Hnen and sports kit of cadets ; by the Commandant, National Defence Academy. 

3 . All contracts and agreements relating to tailoring arrangements at the 
National Defence Academy / the Indian Military Academy; by the Commandant , 
National Defence Academy/ Indian Military Academy. 

4 . All contracts with the Cantonment Board , Poona; by the Commandant, 
National Defence Academy, Kharakvasla . 

5 . Agreements entered into with parents / guardians ot Gentlemen Cadets selected 
for admission to Indian Military Academy, Dehradun , Officer Training Schools , 
Madras and Poona ; by the respective Commandants of these institutions, 

6 . All contracts and agreements for supplies for Lok Sahayak Sena Camps; by 
Officer -Commanding LSS Training Team , 

C . Contracts and other instruments for services under the control of the Quar 
termaster General : 

1 . Contracts for the supply of labour; by the Quartermaster General Command / 
Area / Independent sub - Area Commanders OT Embarkation Commandanta . 


2 . Contracto for the Army Service Corp ( including the Mechanical Transport 
Services ) : - 
( a ) Contracts for supplier and transport services for the Army Services 

Corpo ( including requirements of other services and Departments ) and 

for services to , and purchase from the Army Service Corps ; 
(b ) contracts for conveyance of Military passengers on hill roads by motor 

vehicles ; 
( c ) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security ; and 
( d ) agreemnents, other than those entered into India , with civilian employees 

for a specified period of service in the Army Service Corps; by the 


SIC 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


659 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


Quartermaster General, General Officers Commanding - in - Chief , Com 
mands, Corps Commander, General Officers Commanding Areas / Divi 
sions / Communication Zones , Commanders , Independent " Sub - Areas 
Brigades Stations ( * in respect of Hired Transport contracts only ) 
Commander Corps/ Artillery / Commander Artillery / Commander Army 
Group Artillery , Director of Supplies and Transport, Brigadiers , Army . 
Service Corps, Commands, Deputy Directors of Supplies and Trans 
port Corps, Officer Commanding Army Service Corps / Battalion , Com 
manders , Army Service Corps Areas / Communications Zones, Indepen 
dent Sub - Areas, Deputy Assistant Director of Supplies and Transport, 
Independent Sub - Areas / Sub - Areas / Brigades, or Assistant or Deputy 
Assistant Directors of Supplies or Supplies and Transport at Headquar 
ters of various Army Formations. 


( e ) Contracts for messing; by the Quartermaster General, General Offlcers 

Commanding - in - Chief, Commands, General Officers Commanding, 
Areas / Divisions /Communications Zones, Commanders , Sub - Area / 
Brigade Area Independent Sub - Area / Independent Brigade Group , 
Heads of Institutions Presidents of the Selection Boards. 


3 . Contracts and other instruments for the Remount and Veterinary Services of 
the Remounts and Veterinary Corps : - 


(1 ) Agreements with shippers for landing horses and mules in India ; by the 

Quartermaster General: 


(ii ) (a ) Contracts for undertaking the sale of the Government animals reject 

ed from the Remounts and Veterinary Corps; 


(b ) contracts for the occupation or leasing of land ; and 


( c ) contracts for the sale of hides of animals died / destroyed in Remount 

Units ; by Officers Commanding of Remount Depots , Equine Breeding 
Studs or District Remount Officers of Breeding Areas. 


(ii) (a ) Contracts for forage or stores ; and 
(b ) contracts for petty works at Remount Depots, Equine Breeding Studs 

· and Breeding Area ; by the Director of Remounts and Veterinary 
Services , Officers Commanding of Remount Depots , Equine Breeding 

Studs or District Remount Oficers of Breeding Areas. 
( iv ) All instruments connected with the reconyeyance of property given as 

security ; by the Officers Commanding of Remount Depots Equine 
Breeding Studs or District Remount Officers of Breeding Areas . 


4 . Contracts and other instrumento for the Military Farm 


Servicce : 


( 1 ) Agreements entered into in India with civilian non - gazetted employees 

for a specified period of service in the Military Farms; by the Quarter 

master General 
(u ) Leases of land , purchases or leases of harvesting or cutting rights and 

renewal of such leeses, where the period of each lease or each separate 

renewal does not exceed : — 
( a ) five years ; by the Director of Military Farms. 
(b ) twelve months ; by the Deputy Director of Military Farms/ Assistant 

Director of Military Farms. 
( 1) Contracts for supplies and services to , and purchases from , the Military 

Farms; by the Quartermaster General, the Director of Military Farms, 
or the Assistant Director of Military Farms. 


5 . Contracts for conservancy services entered with : 

( 1) Cantonment Boards, Municipalities for conservancy arrangements ; and 
(11) private individuals for the supply of special conservancy / transport/ 

animals ; by officer Commanding Stations. 


660 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1966 / VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


[PART II 


6 . Leases and agreements relating to sale of grazing and grass cutting rights on 
the military lands including Ordnance , EME and Establishments under Defence 
Production Organisation situated outside Cantonments not placed under the manage 
ment of the Military Estates Officer and disposal of usufruct from trees on 
military land including Ordnance , EME and TD establishments situated outside 
Cantonments ; by the * * 

Station in respect of vacant Army lands 
and by the Onicer i 

eads of Army Establishments in respect 
of lands in their occupation , 

7. Contracts for local purchase of Canteen Stores including liquor /bver required 
for the Canteen Services ; by the Chairman , Board of Administration , Canteen 
Stores Department ( India ) . 

8 . Contracts with shipping companies for conveyance by sea of military passen 
gers and stores ; by the Quartermaster General, 

9. Indemnity bonds with the Bombay Port Trust in regard to the Clearance of 
unclaimed / unconnected Defonce Services Stores found in Bombay Port Trust 
Warehouses ; by the Enıbarkation Commandant, Bombay , 

10 . Contracts with air companies for conveyance by air of military passengers 
and stores ; by the Quartermaster General. 

11. Contracts for operation of Institutcs /Canteens and Regimental shops by the 
Contractors as under : 

(i ) Stations contracts ; by the OC Station , Administrative Commandant , or 
Station Staff Officer. 

(ii) Unit contracts ; by the OC Unit. 

( ii ) Garrison Institutes ( Hill Stations or Depot) contracts; by the OC Hill 
Station or Depot. 

12 . Contracts and other instruments in respect of accommodation provided in 
buildings for the protection of conveyance belonging to the Government servants 
working in such buildings ; by the Officer Commanding the Unit or the Head of 
the establishment/ installation , 

13 . Contracts for wyce stand; bij the Officer Commanding Unit / Ilead of Estab 
lishinent/ Installation , 

D . Contracts and other instruments for Services and Establishments under the 
control of the Master General of Ordnance : 

1. Contracts and other instruments for the Corps of Electrical and Mechanical 
Engineers : — 
(i ) Contracts for local purchase and / or manufacture of stures for EME 

Workshops and for repairs to vehicles or other equipments ; by the 
Master General of the Orünance , the Director of Electrical and Mech 
anical Engineering , Commandant EMC Centre and Commandant EME 
School, and Commandant /Officer COntranding / Oficer - in - Charge, EME 

Workshops of all types . 
( ii) Agreements entered into with all civilian non - gazetted staff other than 

those enumerated in item 2 under Head A above , employed under the 
administrative control of the Director of Electrical and Mechanical 
Engineering ; by the Officer- in - Charge Electrical and Mechanical Engi 
neers , Records or the Commandants /Officers Commanding Electrical 
and Mechanical Engineering Units authorised to appoint the person 

concerned . 
( iii ) Contracts for the local purchase of Periodicals / Journals on technical 

Subject of EME concern ; by Brigadłcts EME, Commander Central 
EME Workshop Group , Commander EME Technical Services Group , 
Commandant ÉME Centre DDs EME Corps, CsEME , DADSEME IN 
der Sub - Area Bde , EME Indep Bde, and Commandants / Officer Com 
manding of EME Workshops of all types of the rank of Major and 
above . 


2 . Contracts and other instruments for the Army Ordnance Corps: -- 
(1 ) Contracts for purchase of Ordnance stores ; by the Master General of 

the Ordnance, Director of Ordnance Services and Deputy Director of 
Ordnance Scrvices , Army Headquarters ; Deputy Directors of Ord 
nance Services, Headquarters Corps ; Commanders Army Ordinance 


Stoc say 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 /VAISAKHA S. 1888 


661 


Corps, Headquarters Division : Assistant Directors of Ordnance Ser . 
vices, Headquarters Areas, Brigade Ordnance Oficers , Independent 
Brigades / Commandant / Chief Ordnance Officer / Deputy Commandants / 
Senior Provision Officers / Deputy Chief Ordnance Officers /Oficers 
Commanding / Local Purchase Omcers , Ordnance Depots / Field Parks / 

Maintenance Companies and AOC Centre . 
( ii) Contracts for washing of textiles, sawing of timber , re - tinning articles 

of Ordnance Supply , manufacture of Ordnance Stores and repairs to 
garments , tentage, screens, cooling chicks course and Ane and other 
ordnance stores ; by the Master General of the Ordnance . Comunand / 
Area Independent Sub - Area / Station Commanders or Officers of the 

Army Ordnance Corps, 
( iii ) Agrecments entered into with all civilian non - gazetted staff other than 

those enumerated in item 2 under Head A above employed under 
the administrative control of Director of Ordnance Services ; by the 
Officers - in - Churge Army Ordnance Corps, Records or Commandants / 
Chief Depots Officers/ Officers Commanding Ordnance Depots autho 

rised to appoint the person concerned . 
( iv ) All instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given 

as sccurity ; by the Director of Ordnance Services or Officers Com 
inanding Army Ordnance Establishments/ Units . 


E . In the case of the Military Engincer Services and in the case of the Naval 
Dockyard Expansion Scheme, Bombay : 
1 . ( a ) all instruments relating to purchasc, supply and conveyance or carriage 

of materials , stores, machinery and hiring of accommodation ; 
( b ) all instruments relating to the exccution of works of all kinds connect 

ed with huildings including demolition and site clearance of buildings , 
bridges , roads, canals , tanks , reservoirs, docks and harbours and em 
bankments and Aerodromes and all instruments relating to the cons 
truction of water , sewage and clectrical works and the creciion of 

machinery ; 
( c ) Security bonds for the due performance and completion of works and 

contracts ; 
( d ) security bonds for the duc performance of their duties by Government 

servants whom the officers specified below have power to appoint; 
( e ) lcascs for grazing cattlc on canal banks or roadsides. tor fishing in a 

canal, for the cultivation of land leases of water for irrigation and 
other purposes , and leases of water power and quarties and instru 
ments relating to the sale of grass, trees or other produce on road 

sides or in plantations ; 
( f ) leases of houses , land or other immovable property not being land or 

other immovable property entrusted to the management of the Mili 
tary Estates Officer , provided that the rent reserved does not exceed 

Rs. 5 ,000 / - a month ; 
(g ) all instruments connected with reconveyance of property given as 

security ; 


( h ) instruments connected with the collection or framing of tools at bridges 

or ferries or other means of communications provided by the State 
Government; 


( i ) agrcements for the recovery of fines on account of drift wood or other 

timber passing into a canal; by the Engineer - in - Chief , Director Gene 
ral of Works, Director General, Nawal Dockyard Expansion Scheme, 
Chief Engineers , Deputy Chief Engineers, when specially authorised 
by Chief Engineers, Commanders Works Engineers , Garrison Engi 
neers , Sub Divisional Officers if they are Assistant Executive Engi 
neers or Officers Commanding Engineer Stores Depots or General 

Officers Commanding entrusted with the execution of M . E . S . Works, 
( 1 ) agreements with temporary and permanent non - gazetted civilian per 

sonnel whom the officers specified below have power to appoint; by 


2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 /VAISAKHA , 1888 


PA 


the Engineer - in -Chief, Director General, Naval Dockyard Expansion 
Scheme, Chief Engineers , Deputy Chief Engineers , when specially 
authorised by Chief Engineers, Commanders Works Engineers, Garri 
son Engineers , Sub -Divisional Officers if they are Assistant Executive 
Engineers or Officers Commanding, Engineers Stores Depots , OT Gene 
ral Officers Commanding entrusted with the execution of M .E . S . 

Works. 
(k ) all instruments relating to the appointment of auctioncers for demoli 

tion and clearance of site ; 
(i) by Chief Engineers for auctions ( exceeding Rs . 5 lakhs in MRP value) ; 
( li ) by Commanders Works Engineers for Auctions (upto Rs. 6 lakhs in 

MRP value ) . 
2 . Agreements for private connections to Military Engineer Service water sup 
ply systems in military stations; by the Garrison Engineer or Sub - Divisional Offi 
cer if he is an Assistant Erecutive Engineer. 

3 . Agreements for non -military connections to Military Engineer Services 
electrical installations; by the Garrison Engineer or Sub -Divisional Officer if he is 
an Assistant Executive Engineer ; 

4 . ( a ) Agreements or memoranda of terms for taking bulk supply of electric 
energy or water from an outside source for military buildings when the annual 
payment in each case : - 

(1) does not exceed Rs. 10 ,000 / - ; by Commanders Works Engineers : 


( il) exceeds Rs . 10 ,000 / - but does not exceed Rs. 1,00,000 / - ; by Chief Engi 

neers , and 
( iii) exceeds Rs. 1,00 ,000 / - ; by the Engineer in - Chief /Director General of 

Works. 
( b ) Agreements or memoranda of terms of giving bulk supply of electric 

energy or water to non -military consumers when the annual recovery 

in each case : 
(i) does not exceed Rs. 10,000 / - ; by Commanders Works Engineers; 
( ii ) exceeds Rs. 10,000 / - but does not exceed Rs . 1,00 ,000 / - ; by Chief En 

gineers ; and 
( 111 ) exceeds Rs. 1,00 ,000/ - by the Engineer - in - Chief/ Director General of 

Works. 


5 . Agreements entered into in India with civilian mechanics and others for a 
specified period of service in the Military Engineer Services ; by the Engineer - in 


Cheif. 


F , Contracts relating to the Indian Navy and Indian Troops Services: 

1. ( a ) contracts for conveyance of troops, military stores , etc .; and 

(b ) charter parties (hire of transport for conveyance of troops ; ctc.) ; 
by the Chief of the Naval Staf , in his capacity as Director , Indian Sea Transport 
Service for Sea Transport Service ( Indian ) or by his Deputy in this capacity . 

2 . Agreements for permanent and temporary employment other than the em 
ployment of civilian gazetted officers ; by the officers authorised to appoint the 
persons concerned , 


3 . Contracts for building powered and galling crafts , barges dock equipment, 
and conversion of Naval Ships and auxiliaries ; by the Director of Naval Construc 
tion , Naval Headquarters , 


4 . All contracts relating to purchase, supply and convevance or carriage or 
miscellaneous naval stores, air stores and equipment, materials , provisions machi 
nery, medical comforts and coal, sailmaking auction , sale business , sawing of tim 
ber , sewing of uniform clothing and initial alteration thereto , removal of coal 
ashes and garbage from Indian Naval Ships and shore establishments repair 
maintenance and overhaul of weighing machines , scraping and cleaning of boi 
lers of Indian Ships , scraping, chipping and painting of underwater fittings of 


Sa $(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 / VAISAKHA 3 , 1888 


667 


Indian Naval Ships , docking and repair to I. N . ships , docking and repairs to 
craft and boats, repairs or renewal of machinery Atted in ships, craft and boats , 
repairs to ships equipment; weapons, etc ., bunkering and removing coal, remov . 
ing and disposing of coal dust by sale or otherwise , washing , repairing and 
restuffing troops bedding, cleaning and painting troops decks, stevedorage, hire 
of motor vehicles and petrol pumps deck covering of Indian ships, supply and re 
pair of furniture and execution of all electrical, mechanical and building works 
in Naval Dockyard , Bombay, cobbler contracts, grass cutting contracts, washing 
of sick baylinen , removal of saw dust , and letting on hire of naval craft 
equipment; by the Chief of the Naval Stal of the Director of Supply Branch , 
Naval Headquarters or the Flag Officer, Bombay of the Staff Supply Officer, 
Bombay or the Commodore- in - charge Cochin or the Staff Supply Oficer , Cochin 
OT the Commodore Superintendent, Naval Dockyard , Bombay OT the Commodore 
East Coast , Vishakhapatnam of the Staff Supply Officer , Vishakhapatnam or the 
Nadal Officer - in - Charge , God or the Naval Oncer - in - charge Calcutta or the 
Resident Naval Officer, Madras / Port Blair and in case where the Sec Transpo 
Service is concerned , by the Chief of the Naval Staff , in his capacity as Director . 
Indian Sed Transport Service , for Sea Transport Service ( Indian ) or hh Deputy 
in this capacity , or by the Sea Transport Officers at Calcutta and Madras . 

5 . Contracte relating to the overtop bunkering of Indian Naval Ships in Indian 
Posts ; by the Chief of the Naval Staff , the Flag Officer , Bombay , the Commodore 
in - charge, Cochin , the Commodore East Coast, Vishkhapatnam , the Naval Officer . 
In -Charge, God of the Resident Naval Oncer at the Port. 

6 . (a ) Agreement entered into with the parents / guardians of Cadets selected 
for admission to the Engineering and Elertrical Branches of the Indian Navy and 
drafted to I. N . S . Venduruthy ; by the Commodore - in -Charge, Cochin . 

(b ) Agreements entered into with parents / guardians of apprentices selected 
for training in the Naval Dockyard ; by the Commodore Superintendent Naval 
Dockyard . 

(c ) Agreements entered into with commercial Arms for the hire of ammunition 
barges ; by the Naval Armament Supply Officer , Bombay . 

( d ) Agreements entered into with commercial Arms for the handling and storage 
of explosives Imported into the port of Bombay ; by the Naval Armament Supply 
Oficer, Bombay . 

7. Contracts for local purchase of stores; by the Flag Officer Commanding Indian 
Fleet, the Commodore - in - charge , Cochin , the Commodore East Coast, Vishakhapat 
nam , the Naval Officer - in -Charge, Calcuttu . the Resident Naval Officer , Madras , 
the Senior Naval Store Officer , Bombay , the Naval Store Officer , Purchase Depart 
ment, Bombay , the Assistant Naval Store Oficer . Purchase Department , Bombay . 
Naval Store Officer , Cochin , the Deputy Naval Store Oficer, Cochin . the Asstt. 
Naval Store Officer, Cochin , the Officer-in -Charge, Naval Store Depot, Vishakha 
patnam , the Assistant Naval Store Officer, Vishkhapatnam . the Naval Armament 
Supply Officers , Bombay and Vishakhapatnam and the Deputy Armament Supply 
Officer , Alwaye, the Officer -in -Charge, S . P . D . C . ( IN ) Bombay and the Base 
Victualling Officers , Cochin and Vishakapatnam , the Officer - in -Charge , Indian Naval 
Physical Laboratory , Cochin and the Officer- in - Charge , Naval Chemical and Metal 
lurgical Laboratory , Bombay and Gun Mounting Officer , Bombay as the Officer 
in - charge of G . E . Store Depot, Bombay . 

8 . Contracts for daily labour, repairs to furniture ( including recaning of 
chairs ), purchase and conveyance of stores and painting work at Naval Head 
quarters ; by the Naval Secretary . 


9 . Indemnity Bonds tor the clearance of air freighted stores ; by the Flag 
Officer , Bombay , the Commodore -in -Charge , Cochin , the Commodore East Coast, 
Vishakhapatnam , the Senior Naval Store Officer , Bombay and Naval Store Officer , 
Cochin . 

10 . Contracts relating to purchase of Scientific equipment; by the Director of 
Scientific Research (Navy ). 

11 . Contracts for washing of hoat and sickbay linen of the Indian Naval Ships ; 
by the Flag Officer , Commanding Indian Fleet on the Fleet Supply Officer. 

12 . Agreements entered into agents for the sale of charts and publications of 
the Naval Hydrographic Omce; by the Chief Hydrographer , Indian Navu . 

13. Direct purchase of Ştores ; by the Officer -in -Charge Direct Purchase Cell , 
Bombay . 


664 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


APRIL 28, 1966 / VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


PART II 


14 . Indemnity Bond from Civilian personnel of the Navy who travel in Gov 
ernment Motor and Water Transport; by the Commanding Officer of Ships / Esta 
blishments and Heads of Establishment in the Navy . 

15 . The short term agreement for supply of fresh provision ; by the Resident 
Naval Officer , Port Blair . 

16 . All contracts not exceeding £375 in value for the purchase of stores in the 
United Kingdom on behalf of the Government of India ; by Deputy Nival Adriser 
to the High Commissioner for India in the United Kingdom , 


G . Contracts for the Air Force : 
l , ( a ) Contracts for the recovery of exploded practice bombs or expanded 

bullets from Air Force bombing ranges ; by the Officers Commanding , 

Air Force Station , 
(b ) Contracts and other instruments relating to tatloring laundry , dry -- 

cleaning , repair and maintenance of Air Force equipment, conservancy 
services , messing and canteen ; by the Oficer Commanding a Depot, 
Station Wing, the Commandant of an Air Force College 0 . C . Alr 
Force , Khamaria or President, Air Force Selection Board , the Air or 
other Oficer Commanding a Comunand , the Air Officer -in -Charge , 
Maintenance of the Air Officer -in - Charge Administration , Ait Head 

quarters 
( c ) Contracts and other instruments relating to supply of authorised equip 

ment, e . g . condiments , distilled water, brooms, sweeping and other 
equipment authorised to be purchased locally at Air Force Stations; 
by the Oficer Commanding / Commandant ( Depot, Station , Wing / 
College Air Force Hospital, Unit ( Sell Accounting for both cash and 
equipment) , the Air or other Officer Commanding a Command , the 
Air Officer - in -Charge , Maintenance , the Air Oficer - in -Charge Admini 
stration , Deputy Director of Organisation and Establishment, Director 
of Equipment, Director of Medical Services ( Air ), Director of Ac 
counts , Deputy Director , Education , Deputy Director , Meteorological 
Services or Carnp Commandant, Air Headquarters. 


2 . Agreements entered into with the parents / guardians of the Cadets or Officers 
selected direct for pre -commission training at Air Force Station , Hyderabad or Air 
Force Flying College , or Air Force Administrative College, or Alr Force Technical 
College ; by Officer Commanding / Commandant of the Station , College concerned as 
the case may be . 


H . Contracts for the Medical Department : 


1. Agreements entered into witn nursing officer of the Mlitary Nursing Services ; 
by the Director General Armed Force Medical Services. 


2 . Agreements entered into with all clyllian non -gazetted staff employed in the 
Armed Forces Medical Stores Depots and Armed Forces Transfusion Centre under 
the administrative control of the Director General, Armed Forces Medical 
Services ; by the Director General Armed Forces Medical Services; 0 . C ., Armed 
Forces Medical Stores D pols , Bombay , Lucknow , Delhi Cantt.. and Poona and 
O . C . Armed Forces Trunsjusion Centre, Delhi Cantt. 

3 . Agreements entered into with all Civilian non -gazetted staff under the Admi 
nistrative control of the Directors of Medical Services ; hy Directors of Medical 
Services (Army), (Navy ) and (Air force ). 

4 . Agreements entered into for the printing of posters , etc ., for health propa 
ganda ; by the Directors of Medical Serrices ( Army ), (Nary ) and (Air Force ). 

5 . Contracts for local purchases of stores; by the Deputy Director General Armed 
Forces Medical Services (Equipment and Storcs ) ; the Assistant Director General 
Armed Forces Medical Serinccs ( Prov .), the Deputy Assistant Director General, 
Armed Forces Medical Services (Border Roads), the Oncers Commanding , Armed 
Forces Medical Storez Depots , Bombay , Lucknow , Delhi Cantt. and Poana ; the 
Officer Commanding, Armed Forces Transfusion Centre , Delhi Cantt. 

6 . Agreements entered into with Medical Cadets ( Stipendiary students admitted 
to the M . B . B . S . course at Armed Forces Medical College ) or their guardian / parents ; 
by the Armed Forces Medical College , Poona . 


SC 3 (1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 8 , 1888 - 665 

- - = = = 

- 
I. Contracts and Instruments relating to land and other immoyable property other 
than houses inside Cantonments, 

I , Leases licences and surrender deeds 


( a ) of land belonging to the Ministry of Defence the executive management 

of which has not been entrusted to the Cantonment Board under the 
Cantonment Land Administration Rules, 1937; by the Military Estates 
Oficer , 


( b ) of land belonging to the Ministry of Defence the executive management 

of which has been entrusted to the Cantonment Board , under the 
Cantonment Land Administration Rules , 1937 ; by the Cantonment 

Executive Officer, 
2 . Licences for a period not exceeding one year at a time, for grass cutting and 
grazing rights , cultivation , fishing, playing of boats and removal of sand , gravel, 
earth , sones , usufruct, trees and the like produce on lands belonging to the Ministry 
of Defence : 
( a ) the executive management of which has not been entrusted to the Can 

tonment Board under the Cantonment Land Administration Rules , 

1937 ; by the Military Estates Oficer , 
(b ) the executive management of which has been entrusted to the Canton 

ment Board under the Cantonment Land Administration Rules , 1937; 
by the Cantonment Erecutive Officer. 


3. Deeds relating to sale and transfer of lands held under. (a ) old grants und 
(b ) on lease ; by the Military Estates Officer 

4 . All documents relating to proprietary rights of Government in land ; by the 
Military Estates Officer. 


5 . Agreements for private connection to water supply systems in Cantonments 
under the control of the Military Engineer Services or the Public Works Depart 
ments ; by the Garrison Engineer , Sub - Divisional Officer , if he is an Assistant 
Erecutive Engineer - in -Charge of an Independent Sub -Division or a Public Works 
Department Divisional Officer . 


6 . All contracts , deeds and other instruments relating to supplies and services 
to , or purchases from the Canteen Stores Department ( India ); by the Chairman , 
Board of Administration , Canteen Stores Department (India ). 


7. Leases of lands and buildings belonging to the Canteen Ştores Department 
(India ); by the Chairman , Board of Administration , Canteen Stores Department 
(India ). 


8 . Leases of houses appropriated by Government under the provisions of the 
Cantonments (House Accommodation ) Act, 1923; by the Officer Commanding the 
Station , 


J . Agreements relating to lease , purchase or sale of Immovable Property (land 
and buildings ) : 


1. Agrements for the purchase or sale of Immovable property on behalf of 
Defence Sarvices ; by tie Military Estate Oficer, 


2 . Agrcements for the sale of assots belonging to the Ministry of Defence on 
hired , requisitioned or Government Jand hut not including the land or other 
Immovable Froper y entrusted to the management of the Military lands and 
Cantonment Scarica; by the Military Estilo Oficer . 


3. Agreement: Ileases Por the hire of Liria , buildings or other Immovable 
Property for ih " ml posty of the Difance S -rvices ; by Ancistant Director, Military 
Lands and Carto77.21ts, Military Estuin Officer or Assistant Military Estates 
Officer /holding til spendent charge of lusuh - circle . 


4 . Agrcements for the purchase or sa !n of immovable property (londs and 
buildings) on behalf of the Canteen Stores Deportment ( India ); by the Chairman , 
Board of Administration , Canteen Stores Department ( India ). 


666 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : APRIL 25 , 1960 / VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


[PART IL 


K . Contracts and Instruments relating to property , other than houses, land 
and other immovable property outside Cantonments , belonging to the Ministry of 
Defence and entrusted to the management of M . L . & C . Service 

(a ) Leases , licenses and surrender deeds; and 
(b ) Licenses for a period not exceeding one year at a time, for grass cut 

ting and grazing rights . cultivation , fishing, plying of boats and the 
removal of sand , gravel, earth , stones, usufruct, trees and the like 
produce on lanus Dulcing 10 Guveinment; by the Military Estates 
Officer or Assistant Military E . tates Officer holding independent 
charge of a sub - circle , 


L Contracts and instruments relating to the Hastings Military Land Scheme, 
Calcutta : 

All contracts and instruinents relating to lands; by the Collector of the District 
of the 24 Parganas. 
M . In the case of the National Caict Corps : -- 
(1) Contracts for the purpose ofp hasing of cloth , tatloring of uniforms, 

repairs of boots and shoes , wishing und repairs of uniforins cturned 
by Cadets ; hy the comman1078 Headquarters Circles Cadet Corps, 
con10. dant Nariniai! Codut Corn Trzining Centre , Kanptve , Com 
manding Officer , L. N . Y . Vonduruthy , and the Oficer Commanding No , 

2 Air Force Flying College , Air Force Station , Jodhpur. 
( ii) Contracts for the puiposo nt purchasing of cloth , tailoring of uniforms, 

repairs of boots and shoxcs washing and repairs of uniforms returned 
Ly cadets ; by the Director / Deputy Director, National Cadei Corps, 

uplo u limit of Rs. 10 , 000 / - in each case . 
N . ( a ) Contracts and other instruments for Services and Establishments under 

the contro ) of the Scientifc Adviser to the Minister of Defence and 

Director General, Defence Research & Development. 
( 1) All contracts , deeds and other instruments other than leases of houses, 

land & other immorable property for Research & Development 
Establishnients / Laboratories / Institutes; by the Scientific Adviser 
to the Minister of Defence and Director General, Defence Research 
and Development Director / Deputy Director of Administration and 

O Alcer - in -Charge , Establishment / Laboratory / Institute . 
(11) Leases of houses, land and other immovable property , purchases or leases 

of harvesting and fishing rig its on the Estate of the Proof and Ex 
perimenta Establishment Balasore ; by the Superintendent Proof and 

Experimental Establishment, Balasore . 
(10 ) Agreements entered into with civilian non - gazetted sloff other than 

thosc enumerated in item ? under Hcad A above employed under 
the Administrative control of the Scientific Advisor to the Minister 
of Defence and Director General, Defence Research & Development; 
by the Officer- in - Chargc Estublishment / Laboratory / Institute . 


( iv ) All contracts and instruments relating to the local purchase of stores 

and supply of materials ; by Second - in -command , thu Store Oncet / 

Admiruestrutive Officer , 
( v ) Leases and agreements relating to oale of grazing and grass cuiting 

rights on the military lands out::Ide cantonments not pared under 
the management of the Milltary Estate Mcers and disposal of usu 
fruct frorr (nes on Military Lan ls ; by the Oficer -in -charge in 

respect of londs in their occupation . 
(vi) All instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given 48 

Syurity ; by the Srientific Adris - r to the Ministet Ol Defence and 
Director General Research & Development, Director / Deputy Direc 
tor of Administration and Oficer- in -Charge Establishment/ Labora 

tory / Institute , 
(vil ) Security bonds relating to Fellowships, Stipends and Training; by 

Oncer -in -Charge , Establishment/ Laboratory / Institute . 
(vill) Security bonds for due performanns of their duties by Government 

servants ; by the Scientific Advisit to the Minister of Defence and 


Buc, 10)) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1986 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


667 


Director General Defence Research & Development, Director / Deputy 
Director of Administration and Officer - in -Charge , Establishment] 

Laboratory / Institute . 
O . Orders and other instruments made and executed in the case of Ordnance 
and Clothing Factories under the Directorate General of Ordnance Factories in 
the Minisiry of Defence : - - 
( 1) ( a ) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase , supply an l con 

veyance , or carriage of materials including electricity , gas and water , 
Stores , machinery etc ., and also making of garments and other 

articles of clothing; 
(b ) security bonds for due performance and completion of work ; 
(c ) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security ; 
( d ) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con 

nected with the additions and alterations to buildings and plants 
and with foundations and housing of machinery and electric and 

sanitary installations; 
( e ) leases of houses , land or other immovable property ; 


( f) all leases and agreements relating to sale of rights (e . g ., grazing rights , 

grasa cutting rights , selling rights within the Factory Estate , etc .) ; 


and 


( g ) all Instruments relating to advances for the purchase of motor cars / 

motor cycles sanctioned by the Director -General of Ordnance 
Factories to the Officers and staff serving in Ordnance and Clothing 
Factories or in this office ; by the Director General, Ordnance Fac 
torics, Additional Director General, Orinance Factories, Deputy 
Director Gezerni, Ordnance Factories, Assistant Dircctor General, 
Ordnance Factories , General Managers , Joint General Manager, 
Deputy General Managers and Project Officers of Ordnance and 

Clothing Factories or SOLE (Factories ). 
(II) Security honds for the due performance of their duties by Government 

servants ; by the Director General. Ordnance Factories. Deputu 
Director General, Ordnance Factories , Assistant Directors General, 

Ordnance Factories . 
( ili) All service Agreements ; by the Director General, Additional Director 

Gencral / Deputy Director General, Ordnance Factories . 
(iv ) All contracts and instruments relating to the supply of materials utpo 

the value of Rs. 400 / -; by the Managers or the Deputy Managers of 

Ordnance and Clothing Factories . 
( v ) Contracts for local purchase of stores ; by the Managers , Deputy 

Managers and Assistant Managers of Ordnance and Clothing Factories . 
(vi) Contracts for purchase of controlled categories of iron and stcel; by 

the Director General Ordnance Factories , Additional Director General, 
Ordnance Factories, Deputy Director General Ordnance Factories, 
Assistant Director General Ordnance factories, Technical Staff 
Officers and Oficer Supervisors of the DGOF Headquarters and 
General Managers, Joint General Manager , Deputy General Managers, 
Managers, Deputy Managers and Assistant Managers of Ordnanco 
and Clothing Factories . 


P . Contracts and other instruments for services and Establishments under the 
control of Director General of Inspection , 
(1) All contrarts deeds and uther instruments other than leases of houses, 

land and other immovable property ; by the Director General of Ins 
pection , the DR & D ( G ), D . I. ( Army ), Director of Vehicles, (D . P . I. L .) 
D . S . P . (Nary ), Chief Superintendent, Chief Inspector of the Officer 

in -Charge of Establishments . 
(11 ) Agreements entered into with civilian non -gazetted staff other than those 

enumerated in item 2 under Head A above employed under the 
administrative control of the DR & D (G ) the D . I. ( Army.), Director of 


6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28. 1966 /VAISAKHA 5, 1848 


PXT DE 


vehicle , Director of Production and Inspection ( IL ), and DSP (Navy ) 

by the Directors concerned . 
(ul) All contracts and instruments relating to the local purchase of stores 

and supply of materials ; by Store s Officers / Administrative Oficer of 

Establishments under Director General of Inspection . 
Q . Orders & other instruments made and executed in the case of Heavy Vehicles 
Factory under the Department of Defence Production , 
(a ) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase , supply and conve 

yance , or carriage of materials including electricity , gas and water , 

stores , machinery, etc .; 
(b ) security bonds for the performance and completion of work ; 
( c) all Instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security ; 
( d ) all Instruments relating to the execution of work of all kinds connected 

with the additions and alterations to buildings and plants and with 
foundations and housing of machinery and electric and sanitary 

installations; 
(e) leases of houses, land or other immovable property ; 
( f) all leases and agreements relating to sale of rights ( e . g . grazing rights , 

grass - cutting rights , selling rights within the Factory Estate , etc ); by 

the General Manager , Heavy Vehicle Factory ; 
( £ ) security Bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 

servants ; by the General Manager, Heavy Vehicles Factory ; 
(h ) all Service agreements; by the General Manager , Heavy Vehicles Factory , 
(1) all contracts and instruments relating to the supply of materials upto 

the value of Rs. 400 / -; by the Manager, Heavy Vehicles Factory ; 
(1) contracts for local purchasc / repair of stores ; by Manager / Deputy 

Manager, Heavy Vehicles Factory . 


R . In the case of National Defence College. 


the 


All contracts and instruments in connection with the binding work of 
National Defence College; by the Commandant, National Defence College. 


IV . IN THE CASE OF MINISTRY OF EDUCATION : 


1 , A . (1) All service agreements including agreements entered into with contract 

officers for a specified period of service in the Ministry of Education 
and security bond for the due perforrnance of their duty by Govern 

ment servants ; 
( i ) all agreements , mortgage bonds, gurety bonds etc ., arising out ot 

various advances [ except advances in respect of which Under Secre 
tary (Administration ) , is the sanctioning authority ] sanctioned to 

Officers in the Ministry of Education ; 
( iii) surety bonds relating to the grant of pension to Government servant. 

or provisional pension to displaced Government servants ; 


(lv ) security bonds of Cashiers and other Government servants or thely 

suretles to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting 
for money or other property rerelved by virtue thereof; by a Deputy 

Secretary to the Government of Inilia in the Ministry of Education . 
B . (1) Agreements with individual artists for the execution of artistic works 

or with Institutions for a loan for construction of a building ; 


( II) bonds and other instruments froni scholars selected for scholarship In 

various educational scientific technical and cultural fields; by a 
Deputy Secretary to the Government of India / Deputy Educational 
Aduiser concern in the Ministry of Education , 


Pro 30 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1966 / VAISAKHA 3 , 1888 


669 


C . All contracts and instruments relating to the publication , printing, produc 
tion , publicity and sale of books, educational work etc., writing by private persona; 
by the Assistant Educational Adviser (Publication ) in the Ministry of Education 

2. In the case of the Archacological Survey of India : -- 


( 1) Leases of archaeological monuments , lands, stalls and shopy, purchase 

or lease of cutting and harvesting rights in archaeological gardens and 
compounds, leases and instruments for transfer or control of protect 
ed monuments and lands attached to them , by the concerned 

Superintendents , Archaeological Survey of India 
( 11) All contracts , deeds or other instruments relating to the execution of 

works and repairs to protected monuments and other immovable 
property , by the Director General of Archaeology in India in respect 
of all sanctioned original works or repairs , or by Superintendents 
Archaeological Survey of India , when the cost of sanctioned works 
does not exceed Rs. 10 , 000. 


(ii) Agreements under sections 5 ( i ) and 6 of the Ancient Monuments and 

Archaeological Sites and Remains Act , 1959 ( 34 of 1958 ) ; by the 
Director General of Archaeology in India and the concerned Superin 
tendent, Archaeological Survey of India , respectively . 


( iv ) Security Bonds of Cashiers and other Gove nment servants or their 

sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting 
for money or other property received by virtue thcreof; by the 
Deputy Director General of Archaeology (Administration ) in the case 
of the Fleadquarte : s office of the Survey and by the concerned Head 

Office in the case of Subordinate Offices of the Surycy . 
( v ) All agreements or lease - deeds rclating to hiring of building for use as 

otfive all oinmodation within their respective areas of jurisdiction , by 
the concerned Superintendent of the Archaeological Survey of India , 
provided that the hiring of the accommodaiion has been duly sanc 
tioned by a competent authority and the d aft agretincnt or lease 
cecd has been duly vetted by the Ministry of Law . 


3 . In the case of National Gallcry of Modern Art: 
(i) Contracts and other instruments for the binding of books and publica 

tions; 
(ii ) agreements in connection with the disinfection of and the control of 

white - ants and other insects in the Gallcries and Library premises , 

etc . ; 
( lii) contracts for catering relating to the Gallery Canteen : 
(iv ) all agreements relating to local purchase of stores and materials , etc . 

upto the limit of Rs. 2 , 000 in escli case ; 
( v ) contract and instrument relating to disposal of worn out and obsolete 

stores and broken or clariliiged objects of valur upto Rs. 1, 000 ; 
(vi) all deeds and contracts , etc . relating to the execution of petty original 

works, : cpairs, renovations, etc . in thc Gallery through sources other 

than C . P . W . D . unto a limit of Rs. 2 ,500 in each case ; 
( vil) contracts and other instruments for petty construction in connection 

with crection , removal, packing and transport of sculptures and other 
art objects and setting up of dioramas and machinery which are out 
side the pulvicu of C . P . W . D .; 


( viii) contracts for dellvery of consignments ; 
by the Curator , National Gallery of Modron Art . 


4. In the case of Central Hindi Directorate ; 
( i) Agreements and rontracts (upto the lirit of tis . 25 ,000 ) with Authors . 

translators and publishers in contiection with the scheme relating to 
the preparation and translation of standard works of University level 
into Hindi and other Indian Languages ; 


670 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1988 / VAISAKHA 3 , 1888 


PAwr 1 


( 1 ) contracts and instruments relating to the purchase and supply of mate 

rial, stores , equipments , books and magazines ( upto the following 

lunits ) ; 
Books and magazines etc . 

Rs. 30,000 
Furniture 

Rs. 7,000 
Other stores 

Rs . 6 ,000 
(III) contracts for the appointment of Transport Contractors (upto the limit 

of Rs. 2 , 000) ; 
by the Director , Central Hindi Directorate. 
5 . In the case of the National Archives of India : — 
( 1 ) Agreement for the publication of documents in the custody of the 

National Archives of India through the Universities or private 

agencies; 
( li) agreements contracts relating to purchase of stores and machinery ; 

clearance and delivery of consignments , conveyance and carriage of 

stores ; 
( III) security bonds or mortgage derds in connection with employment of 

Cashiers and Store -keepers charged with disbursement of money or 

the custody and handling of stores ; 
(iv ) execution of bonds by trainees ; 
(v ) contracts and instruments relating to disposal of waste paper and 

obsolete stores and unserviceable machine y of National Archives of 

India ; 
( vi) execution of agreements and contracts relating to the allotment of 

cycle stand shed and canteen premises of the National Archives of 

India ; 
by the Director of Archives of Government of India . 
6 . In the case of National Discipline Scheme Directorate , New Delhi : -- 
( 1 ) (1) Security bonds or mortgage deeds in connection with employment 

of cashiers charged with dishursement of moncy and storekeepers 

charged with custody and maintenance of stores ; 
(11) execution of bonds by trainees ; 
(III) lease deeds in respect of Directorate bulldings hired for the National 

Discipline Scheme, New Delhi (upto limit of Rs. 5 ,000 p .m .) ; 
by the Director National Discipline Scheme, New Delhi, 
( 2 ) Indemnity bonds guaranteeing the safe custody of the chessis ; by the 

Director of National Discipline Scheine Directorate . 


7 . In the case of Regional Centre for the Training of Educational Planners , 

Administrators and Supervisurs in Asia , New Delhi: — 
( i) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Davment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers , magazines, periodicals ; 
(11 ) security hords for Cashiers and other Government servants of their 

surcties to secure the due execution of an office or other property 
received by yirtue thereof; 


by the Deputy Director , Regional Centre for Educational Planners , Administrators 
and Supervisors in Asia , New Delhi. 


8 . In the case of the Anthropological Survey of India : 


A . All contracts , deeds or other agreements relating to the execution of 

works and repairs to buildings of the Anthropological Survey of Indie 
which are under the Administrative control of the Survey, including 


Sc (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 . 1966 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


671 


sanitary water supply and electrical installations, within the follow 

ing monetary limits : 
( a ) Rs . 5,000 in the case of original works and special repairs; 
(b ) Rs. 500 in the case of additions and alterations; 
(c ) Rs. 500 in the case of electrical installations , and 

( d ) Rs. 1 500 in the case of sanilury and water supp y installations; 
by the Diractor , Anthropological Survey of India . 


B . ( il All instruments relating to purchase , S .,2014 1727 Conveyance or 

car1230 of materials , st To ad mc1 . . 1" 217 epair s thrrenf; 
(ii ) Alina unents relating to the fiecution of works of al kinds connect 

cd pith buildin ? : and estate , in c ! ! ce of the Sury, Y ; 
by the Director or Deputy Director, Anilirepoingical Survey of India . 


C . (j ) Serurity bonirls of Cashiers · nd other Government sorvants or the ** 

Suratins tis 1941: e tha duo p lormarice of their duties or of the du ? 
o counting for noney or other property received hy virtue thereof, 
in the case of inployees of Survey whom the Director Anthropological 

Survry of India has the power to appoint; 
( ii) Agreements for the publication of documents in Eu onean or Oriental 

languages through the Universities or private agencies ; 
(ili ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

slibscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines , periodicals 

etc.; 
by the Director , Anthropological Survey of India . 


9 . In the case of National Library , Calcutta : - - 
(1) Contracts and other instruments for the binding of books and publica 

tions ; 
( ii ) Agreements in connection with the disinfestation and control of white 

ants and other insects in the Library premises ; 
( iii ) Arrements relating to the purchase , supply , conveyance o carriage of 

trials. stores machinery , clearanc und delivery of consiglimeals , 

? o 11 of books and publications; 
( iv ) Sirurity bonds or moit - age props in urinection with topployment 

of cashiers and storakeen charol with th ceshur : c . nent of 

nynay or the custody an : handling of stores; 
( v ) Catcring contracts relating to this Lilirury Cantec . ; 
( vi) Contra tront instrumynts rc ating to the mainicianes and un - keep of 

th , Libritly ( quipment; 
(vii) Contrarts and instruments relating to the sal oil ruth s , giacs and 

11 _ - s in his Erlyndere Estate inato le disposa1 " , wann Dir and 

0121 oby ?. : stores of the Library ; 
( viii) Coars 2016 Aireernorita rith th : gljinliers et 10 Min 16970,- , perio 

Franz. Serin s , Ltr , where acvan ! Da muni ! TS tipo i- made; 
( ix ) C : it . Vith firmus for the mainic . .ce of villisis di Tives and 

justrumonts used in the Library ; 
( x ) Contacts with the scholari of repute for deliverin 1 - +17napor in the book 

contents ctc . of the Library in the in erest of th : pul te sorvice : 
( xi) Cotranfon useit s ihr Compilers of Bibliographics of In OOT on payment 

of remuneration ; 
( xit) Service agrroments: 
(xill ) Leases of land , houses in her immovable properties; 


872 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


[PART 11 – 


(xlv ) Contracts and instruments relating to sale of fruits, flowers, plants etr . 

and leases of ponds including sale of fish . 
by the Librarian , National Library , Calcutta . 
10 . In the case of National Museum , New Delhi: 
A Security bonds to secure the due execution of an office or the due account 

ing for money or other property received by virtue thereof. of the 
Government servants whom the Director or the Assistant Director , 

National Museum has power to appoint; 
by the Director of the Assistant Director, National Museum , New Delhi as the case 
may be. 
B . ( i) Contracts and other instruments for petty construction in connection 

with erection , removal, excavation , packing and transport of works 
of sculptures , objects or art, setting up of dioramas, machinery , which 

are outside the purview of the Public Works Department; 
( ii ) Contracts for the supply of stores , chemicals , objects of art, dioramas, 

machinery and apparatus and other equipment, and their maintenance 

and repairs when the cost does not exceed Rs. 2 , 500 in each case ; 
by the Director , National Museum , New Delhi, 
11. In the case of the Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad : 
(i) Bonds indemnifying owners of mines and oil- fields against claims by 

students ander the Workinen s Compensation Act , 1923 ; 
( il) Security bonds in connection with the employment of office cashire , 

store -keeper , Chief Store - keeper and other subrrdinates who he 
has power to appoint and who are required to handle cash , stoies and 

valuables to the course of their official work ; 
( ill ) Contracts and other instruments for petty construction in connection 

with the erection and installation of machinery, which are not under 

the purview of the Public Works Departinent; 
( iv ) Contracts and other instruments : elating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers , magazines , periodicals 


etc . 


(v ) Surety bonds relating to Central Government servants who are duputed 

for training abroad ; 
by the Director, Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad 
12. In the case of Survey of India :--- 
A . (1) Contrants and other instruments relating to advances for the pur 

chaze of conveyances; 
(11) Security bonds for the due parformance of their dutics by Officers of 

the Survey of India , Class I Service ; 
by the Surveyor General. 


B , Agreements or leases for hire or buildings required for the Survey of 

India fo : periods not exceerling one year ; 
by the Tirerdors , Deputy Director , or President, Geodetic and Research Branch , 
Surrey of Indir . 
C . All instruments relating t purslase , supply and conveyance or carriage 

of materials . stores and machinery and repair s thereof; 
by the Surreyor General, Directors, Deputy Directors or President, Geodetic and 
Research Brah or Deputy Stores Officers , Survey of India . 


D . Seririly bonds for the due potorinance of their duties by Government 

servants whom thc officers specified below have power to appoint; 
by the Sirmior Gen Tal, Dirurtors, D -puty Directors or President, Geodetic and 
Rescorch Branch , Survey of India . 


SEC. 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1986 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


679 


E . (i ) All instruments relating to execution of works of all kinds connected 

with buildings and cstates in the charge of the Department; 
( ii ) Contracts and other instruments relating to printing work , serial photo 

graphy , mapping preparation of mosaics and prints ; 
by the Surveyor General, or Directors, Survey of India . 
F . Agreement relating to conservancy services rendered at Hathibarkala 

Estate , Dehra Dun ; 
by the Director , Map Publication Survey of India . 
G . Agreements relating to conservancy services rendered on the Survey of 

India, Estates at 17 EC Road , Dehra Dun ; 
by the Deputy Director, Geodetic and Research Branch , Survey of India . 
H . Service agreements in the shape of security bonds for the due perfor 

mance of duties are executed by the Government Servants on first 
appointment and accepted by the authorities as per details below : 


( a ) Class III Division I personnel and above; 
by the Surveyor General of India . 

(b ) Class III Division II and Ministerial Staff; 
by the Director, Deputy Surveyor General and Deputy Director of Geodetic and 
Research Branch for their respective circles offices . 


I. Leases of land, houses and other immovable properties for periods not 

exceeding one year; 


by Directors , Deputy Directors , of Geodetic and Ripsarch Branila and Deputy 
Directors for Mircles and Duprly $ 21722 ? or General / .4 .ssistant Surreyor General for 
Surveyor General s Ofice art from per aid ( Iceeding and y ? ar hy tlie Surveyor 
General. 
13. In the case of Zoological Survey of India : - 
(i ) Agreements or leases in conncctiun with the hiring of buildings requir 

ed for the Regional Stations of the Zoological Survey of India for 

period not excceding three years ; 
( ii) All instruments relating to purchasc , supply and convivanns or carriage 

of material, stores and machinery etc , and repairs 112 -rroſ ; 
(ii) Bonds and other insiruments from scho g : S - cter! for cholarship in 

Zoological Survey of India ; 
( iv ) Contracts and other instruments relating to thn pirment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of nowpapers , magazines , periodicals 

etc . ; 
( v ) Fidelity bonds from the ceshicr and the storc -keepers ; 

( vi) Agrements of lease deeds of houses for office accommodation ; 
by the Director, Zoological Survey of india . 


14 . In the case of the Botanical Survey of India , Calcutta : 
( i) All instruments relatin to pu t , supply anrl conreriner or carriage 

of materials, sturcs al in .. . liinery etc ., 774 irpins tricol; 
( ii ) Security bonds or mal hip doo 15 of cashiers and toro -lopers and 

othe Government scrvants or their suletics to secure ihes due xoru 
tion of an oſhire or the due accounting for money or other ricoperty 

received by virtue tlicrcuf; 
( iii ) Agreemonts or cases for hire of buillincs required for the Botanical 

Survey of India , for periods not exceeding three years at a time; 


( iv ) Bonds and other instruments from scholars selected for scholarship in 

the Botanical Survey of India ; 


674 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


PAKT I 


( v ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers , magazines, periodicals , 

etc .; 
(vi) Service agreements ; 
( vii ) Leases of land , house and other immovable properties upto the limit as 

defined in General Financial Rules; 
by the Director, Botanical Survey of India . 
15 . In the case of National Atlas Organisation : --- 
( i) All instruments relating to purchase, - supply and conveyance or carriage 

of mate . ials , stores and machincry ind repairs thereof; 
( ii ) Contracts and other instruments for the binding of books and publica 

tions including covers of National Atlas ; 
( H11) Agreements in connection with the disinfestation and control of white 

ants and other insects in the ofice premises ; 
liv ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for purchase of newspapers etc .; 
( v ) Security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their 

suretics to secure the duc execution of an office or the duc accounting 

for money or other property received by virtue thereof; 
by the Deputy Director, National Atlas Organisation. 


V . — IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS. 


1. Arrangements for conveyance of Indian Post Office mails in Nepal ; by 
Ambassador of India in Nepal. 


the 


2. All agreements, deeds and other instruments relating to the business of the 
Central Passport and Emigration Organisation by the Chief Pussport Omeer. Such 
agreement deeds and other instruments upto the init of rupees twelve 
thousand per year shall be executed by the Regional Passport Oncer , Madras , 
Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta and Lucknou , 


3 . Agreements or leases for the purchase or hire of buildings and land requir 
ed for the accommodation of the ofices , officers and staff of the Indian diplomatic 
missions in foreign countries , such as offices of the High Commissioners, Deputy 
High Commissnoers , Assistant lligh Commissioners and Commissioners, Embassies , 
Legations Consiilates-Gencral and Consulates and agreements for the sale , let out 
or construction of Government buildings in a foreign country ; by the trail of the 
Mission or post or the Hrad of the Chilcery in the foreign country concerned . 

Explanation : The terin " Head of a Mission or fost" includes a High Commis 
sloner , a Deputy High Commissioner , an Assistant High Commissioner , a Com 
missioner , an Assistant Cumirisiocr, an Ambassador, a Minister, i Fepresentative, 
a Charge d Affaires , a Consul-Ceneral, a Consul and a Trade Agent, 

4 . All agreements, deeds and other instruments relating to the work of the 
Goveroment of India in Sickim ; by tile Political Officer , Siklim , Gurutuk or the 
First Secretary in his office . 

5 . ( a ) Al contracts and instruments relating to purchase , supply and convey 
ance , or carriage of material, stores , innchinery etc ; . 

(b ) Security bunds for due performance and completion of works and contracts . 

(C ) All instruinents connecter with the reconveyance of property given as 
security ; 

( d ) All contracts and instruments relating to disposal of surplus, obsolete and 
waste stores 192ted in Indian Mlssions and Posts abroad and belonging to the 
Government of India . 

( e ) Security bonds of cashiers and other Government Servants or their suretles 
to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for money or other 
property received by virtue thereof ; 


HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23. 1900 / VAISAKHA $ , 1888 


675 


by an Under Secretary to the Government of India or an Attache In the Ministry 
of External Affairs of the Head of the Mission / Post of the Head of the Chancery 
in the foreign country concerned . 

6 . All contracts and assurances of property required to be made in the United 
Kingdom ; by the High Commissioner for India in the United Kingdom or by the 
Deputy High Commissioner for India in the United Kingdom . 
Provided that, subject to such rules and restrictions as the High Commissioner , 

with the approval of the President may prescribe, any contract, other 
than contracts for , or relating to , the manufacture , sale , purchase or 
supply of goods or for or relating to the affreightment or the carriage 
of goods, or insurance in the India Store Department under the con 
tro ) of the High Commissioner for India in th - United Kingdom , may 
he executed on behall ot the President in the absence of the said 

High Commissioner and the Deputy High Commissioner ; 
by the Chiel Accounting Officer or the Secretary of the Establishment Department 
of the said High Commissioner s Office . 


Vl. — IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
A . In the case of the Department of Economic Afairs : 

1. In the case of Government securities ; by the Governor or a Deputy Governor 
of the Reserve Bank of India . 
2 . In the case of Treasuries : 
(1) Security bonds or mortgage -deeds given as security in connection with 

the employment of officers of Treasurers and Shroffs in District or 
Şub -District Treasuries and agreements entered into with such officers ; 

by Collectors or Deputy Commissionery of Districts . 
(117 Deeds of reconveyance of security given by Shroffs In District and Sub 

District Treasurers; hy Collectors Or Deputy Commissioners of Dis 

tricts . 
3. In the case of the India Security Press and the Currency Note Press : — 
(1 ) ( a ) Contracts for the purchase and supply of stores and building materials 

and for the provisions of labour indentures to bind apprentices of 
India Security Press and the Currency Note Press for a definite 

term ; 
( 15 ) Contracts for the sale of worn out stores and waste products ; 
(c ) Contracts for maintenance and repairs of once and residential build 

ings, water coolers , bullion balances , weighing machines, telephone 
system and other equipments ; 
contracts for extermination of white ants l rom office buildings and 

premises ; 
( d ) Agreements with establishments including Workmen s establishments ; 

and 
( 1) Security bonds given as security in connectio with the employment 

of fashiers, store -keepers, Assistant Store -keepers , Chicf Inspectors, 
Inspectors and Assistant Inspectors charged with disbursem rit of 

moncy or the custody and handling of Securities and other valuable ; 
by the Mresti , India Sumurity Press and Cr-officio Controller of Starps, Nacik Road , 
by the Deputy luster , India Security Press / Currency Note Press in the cuse of 
contracty for 17ya urchasc and supply of stores ont cxcreding Rs, 10 .000 / - in value 
or 1111 the liputant Niast. ; , Ilin Security Pr !! / Cirrency Note Prous / New Cur 
rency Note Prins in the rase of contracts for the purchase and supply of stores not 
exceeding Rs. 2 ,509 , - in value, 
(li) ( ontracis for works administratively approved by the Ministry of 

Finance ; by the Master , India Security Press, Nasik Roud . 
4 . In the case of the Security Paper Mill Project : 
( a ) Contracts for the purchase and supply of stores and building materials ; 

for the provision of labour and indentures to bind Anrentires and 
employees of the Security Paper Mill Project for a definite term : 


- 


676 THE GAZETTZ 087IDIA APRIL 29, 1960 / VAISAKHA 8, 1888 PART 4 

25 . 

- 
(b ) Contracts for the sale of worn out stores and other waste products ; 
( c) Contracts for maintenance and repairs of office and residential buildings ; 
( d ) Contracts for maintenance and repairs of water coolers , weighing machines 

and balances telephone system , room air conditioners , air conditioning 
plant of the mill, Are fighting equipment, electrically operated lifts and 

cranes and other similar specialised equipment; 
( e ) Contracts for extermination of white ants in office buildings and premises ; 
(1) Agreement with establishments including workmen s establishments ; 
( g) Ronds given as security in connection with the empoyment of cashiers, 

store keepers , Assistant Store keepers and other staff who are charged 
with the disbursement of money or the custody and handling of securi 

ties and other valuables ; and 
(h ) Contracts for works administratively approved by the Ministry of 

Finance ; 
by the General Manager, Security Paper Mill Project, Hoshangabad . 


5 . In the case of (i) the India Government Mint, Bombay ( 11) the India Govern . 
ment Mint, Alipore (Calcutta ) , ( iii) the India Government Mint, Ilyderabad ( Andhra 
Pradesh ), (iv ) the Silver Refinery , Calcutta , and ( v ) the Assay Department : 
( 1 ) ( a ) Contracts for the purchase and supply of stores and hui ding materials 

and matters incidental thereto , for the provision of laljours and in 
dentures to bind apprentices at the Mints and Silver Refinery for a 

definite terms; 
(b ) Contracts for the sale of worn out stores and ashes and other waste 

products ; 
( c ) Contracts for maintenance and repairs of olive and residential buildings, 

repair of water coolers, hullion balonces, weighing machines, tele 

phones system and other equipments ; 
(d ) Contracts for extermination of white ants from otce buildings and pre 

mises; 
( e) Agreements with estallishment including workmen s establishnient; and 
( 1) Security and Fidelity Guarantee bonds in connection with the employ 

ment of office cashlers and other staff who are equired to furnish 
such bonds ; 


by the Mont Master , Bornbay in the cases of Indın Corcorint ont Mmt, Tertugal and 
Assay Departments at Bombray and Calcuttu , by the Mint Master , or Deputy Mint 
Mastcr, Aliporc (Calcutta ) in the case of India Gourmanent Mint, Aliprre ( i alcutta ) 
by the Mint Master, Hyderabad in the cus of the Indla Gorernment Mnt Hydera 
bad , and by the General Maior, Silzer Refinery , Calcuttu in the cle of the Silver 
Refinery , Calcutti, 


6 . In the case of the office of the National Savings Commissioner 
(i ) Contracts and other instruments with Authorised Agonty sorointer for 

selling Savings Certilirates issund under the Small Suving Schme of 
the Coverment of India ; by the authorities appointing the Authorised 

Agents . 
( ii) Pledge of Government securities by the Authorlsen Agents for the duc 

performance of their ruíies ; 01 the 11thorities appointing the Authoris.. 

cd Agents . 
( iii) Security Bonds for the rule performance of their duties hy the Assistant 

Regional Director , National Savings, District Osornicers or th “ Lady 
Organisers monointer under the Small Savings Srihemn of the Govern - 

ment of India ; by the National Savings Commissioners, 
(iv ) Indemnity Bonds from the officials of the National Savines Organisation 

in connection with the loss of Identity rards / receipt looks / Small Say . 
ings Securities held in their custody ; by the Niitional Savings Com 
missioner 


Star Xoi THE GAZETTE OF INDIA » APRIL 28, 1966 /NAISAKHA $, 1888 679 

= = 

= 
( v ) Indamnity Bonils froin Authorised Agents in connection with loss by 

them of Certificates of Authority , Receipt Books and Small Savings 
Securities held in their custody ; by the authorities appointing the art 

thorised agents . 
( vl) Security bonds in the form of Fidelity Guarantee Policy furnished by the 

Authorised Agents ; by the authoritics appointing the authorised Agents, 
( vil) Security Bonds of Accountant in the office of the National Savings 

Commissioner for due performance of his duties and accounting of 
money or other property received by him ; by the National Savings 

Commissioner . 
vl ) Security bonds of Cashiers in the offices of the Regional Directors, 

National Savings (Government of India ) and Deputy Regional Direc 
tors , National Savings Incharge (Government of India ), for due per 
formances of their duties and accounting of money and other property 
received by them ; by the Regional Directors, National Savings (Gou 
ernment of India ) or the Deputy Regional Director, National Savings 

Incharge (Government of India ) as the case may be. 
(1x ) Leases of office accommodation , godowns, and garages for the office of 

the National Savings Commissioner ; by the National Savings Com 

missioner, 
( x ) Leases of office accommodation , godowns and garages for the offices of 

the Regional Directors , National Savings (Government of India ), and 
Deputy Regional Directors , National Savings Incharge (Government 
of India ) ; by the Regional Directors, National Savings (Government of 
India ) and the Deputy Regional Directors, National Saving Incharge 
(Government of Indial as the case may be. 


7 . In the case of the Kolar Gold Mining Undertakings , Oorgaum ; 
(1 ) (a ) All contracts and other instruments relating to purchase, supply , 

conveyance or carriage of stores and building materials and for 

the provision of labour; 
(b ) Security bonds for due performance and completion of work and / or 

contracts and all other instruments relating to any security for due 

performance and completion of works and / or contracts ; 
( c ) Indentures to bind apperentices at the Kolar Gold Mines for a 

definite term ; 
(d ) Agreements relating to lease of land and buildings and other pro 

perties ; 
( e ) Agreements with establishment including Workmen s establishments ; 
( 1) Contracts for works administrative y approved by the Ministry of 

Finance ; 
( g ) Sccurity and Fidelity Guarantee bonds in connection with the em 

ployment of cashiers and other staff who are required to furnish : 
such bonds; 


by the Managing Director , Kolar Gold Mining Undertakings. 
(il ) Agreements included in the Memoranda of Agreement eferred to in 

Rule 49 of the Workman s Compensation (Mysore ) Rules, 1953 ; by 
the Managing Dirertor , Kolar Gold Mining Unilestokings, the Super 
intendent, Kolar Gold minina Underttuings (Nonduroon. Mine ) , 
Oorgaum in the case of Nandydrog Minze , the Superintendent, Kolar 
Gold Mining Undertalcinoty ( Champion Recfs , Mine ) is the case of 
Champion Reef Mine , Chopior Rects ; Ulur Sriperint1 17dent Kolar Gold 
Mining Undertakings (MH50e Mirza ) Marikuppity in the case of 
Mysore Mine ; the Chief Mlectricitl Errino FO Gold Mining 
Undertakings ( Electricity Dinertinent ) Oorlin10 : 1 :2. tie CLLSP of Elec 
tricity Department, the Chilf Medical and Sanitary Oficer , Kolar Gold 
Mining Undertalcings ( ntriral Katalilishau ? (970177 , ,17 Press in 
the case of Medica ? Estunishment; and the Chicf Othm ? ) , Kolar Gold 
Mining Undertakings (Wutch ( nl War Establish 720: 17t ) , Champion 
Reefs in the case of Watch and Ward Establishıon ent. 


678 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1968 / VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


[PART 11 – 


8 . Indemnity bond executed by claimants claiming refund of compulsory depo 
sits without producing legal documents and the surety bonds executed by the 
Burities relating to such refunds by the Officer on Special Duty in the Ministry 
of Finance Department of Economic Affairs. 

B . In the case of the Department of Expenditure : 

( 1 ) In the case of the Office of the Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts 
Officer , Farakka Barrage Project : 

( i) Security and Fidelity guarantee bonds in connection with the employ 

ment of Cashier and Assistant Cashier who are required to furnish 

such bonds ; 
( ii) agreements with establishment; and 
( ili ) reconveying of Government securities pledged by the contractors and 

deposited with the Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Omcer, 

Farahka Barrage Project for the due execution of Project contractors ; 
by the Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer, Furakka Barrage Project. 

( 2 ) Surety bonds cxecuted by the Cost Accountant Apprentices for fulfilment 
of thcir obligations under the lerms of their employment; by the Under Secretary 
to the Gone of India or Senior CusL Accounts Oncer or Principal, Cast Accoun 
tants Truining School, Calcutta . 

C .- - In the case of the Department of Revenue. 
1 . In the case of the Income- tax Department: 
( i) All contracts and instruments relating to the Income- tax Department; 

by Commissinners of Income- tar. 
2. In the case of Central Excise Collectoratcs : 
(i) ( a ) All contracts, deeds or other instruments relating to the business of 

the Central Excise Co lectorates ; by the Collector, the Deputy Col 
lector, Assistant Collector, Superintendent, Deputy Superintendent, 

US Inspector of Central Excise . 
( b ) Contracts for the lease of land in the control of the Central Excise 

Collectorates , where such lease is otherwise permissible ; by the 

Collector or the Deputy Collector of Central Excise . 
( c ) Contracts or other instruments for the purchase , supply and convey 

ance of furniture and stores ; by the Collector or the Deputy Col 
lector of Central Excise of the Assistant Collector of Central Excise 

in charge of a Division , 
( d ) Leases of land leases and su . render of buildings or other immov 

able property ; by the Collector or the Deputy Collector of Central 

Excise . 
( e ) Security bonds in connection with the employment of office cashiers 

and other subordinates who are required to handle Government 
money in the coursc of their official work ; by the Collector or the 

Deputy Collector of Central Excise . 
( f ) Agreements in the prescribed form for buildings hired in their res 

pociive charges ; by the Assistant Collectors and Superintendente 

of Central Excise, 
( g ) All contracts deeds and other instrunients for the purchase of land 

for construction of range office - cum - residential accommodation ; by 
the Collectors of Central Excise and Deputy Collectors of Central 
Excise . 


( ii) Contracts and other instruments for the purchase , supply and convey 

ance or carriage of building materials , stores and machinery and con 
tracts for petty construction and repairs and for public works of 
every description which ure executed by the Central Excise Collec 
torate . Bombay ; by the Collector or the Deputy Collector of Central 

Excise . Bombay or the Assistant Collector in charge of a Division . 
(ii ) In the case of the Statistics and Intelligence Branch ( Central 

Excise ) : 


8pco XC 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1968 /VAISAKHA $; 1888 


670 


All contracts , deeds and instruments relating to the business of the Statis 

tics and Intelligence Branch (Central Excise ) ; by the Deputy Col 

lector in charge , Statistics and Intelligence Branch (Central Excise) . 
3 . In the case of the Customs Department : 
( i) Security bonds executed by clerks, shroffs at out ports in Madras State ; 

by the Superintendents of Central Excise appointed to be officers of 
customs under section ( 1 ) of the Customs Act , 1962, within their 

respective jurisdictions. 
(11 ) Bonds and guarantees submitted by importers and exporters in connec 

tion with the clcarance or export of goods; by any officer of Central 
Excise D . partment not lower in rank thun an Inspector, appointed to 
be an officer of custoins within his jurisdiction , under section 1 ( 1 ) of 

the Customs Act, 1962. 
( iii ) All contracts , deeds and other inst uinents relating to the business of 

the Customs Departinent other than those speciied in items ( i ) ind 
( ii) above ; by the Collectors of Custom ? or th : Additional Collector 
of Customs or the Deputy Collectors of Customs or the Assistant Col 

lectors of Customs. 
( iv ) Bonds for the grant of duplicate refund orders ; by the Chief Accounts 

Ofrcers or Assistant Coilectors of Customs. 
4 . In the case of the Narcotics Department: 
( i ) All contracts , deeds or other instruments relatin to the businuss of the 

Office of the Narcotics Commission ( T ; bij thc Narcotiis Commissioner . 
( ii) Security bonds in connection with cmployment of office cashiers and 

other subordinates who are required to han lle Government money in 

the course of their official wo k ; by the Nurcotics Cominissioner, 
( iii ) Contracts for the purchase , supily and conveyance or carri .ge of build 

ing materials and stores and contricts for ditty Construnion and re 
pairs and for public works of every descriylion which are not executed 
by the Public Works Department; by the Alanager of the Factory , 

Gazipur or the Assistant Narcotics Commissioner, Nezruch , 
( iv ) Contracts for the aupply of weighment articles and Icases of agricul 

tural land attached to opium buildings within the jurisdiction of Dis 

trict Opium Officers; by the District Opium Officers. 
( v ) Contracts for miscellaneous stores , chemicals and apparatus, mango 

wood chests, plant and scantlings for packing of opium ; 62 the 
Manager of the Factory, Gozipur of the Assistant Collector (Opium ), 

Neemuch . 
( vi) Contracts and other instruments relating to the business of the opium 

Department other than those specified in itenis ( i ) to ( v ) Above ; by 
the Deputy Narcotics Commissiozar , Gazipur or thc Narcotics Com 

missioner . 
( vii) Contracts and other instruments relating to the sale of onium ; hr an 

Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Fincazc e (Department of Revenue ) . 


5. In the case of the Dircctorates of Inspection ( Income- tax ) ( Investigation ) 
and Research , Statistics and Publication : 


Security bands in connertion with the enployment of office cashier s and other 
fubordinate staff who are required to handle Government money in the course of 
their official work ; by the Dirertor of Inspectiol ( I " comp - tar ) , Divcritor of Inspec 
tion ( investigatior ) and Director of Inspection (Research , Statistics and Publica 
ttons ) as the case may be. 


6 . In the case of Directorate of Inspection (Customs and Central Excise ) : --- 
(i) Security bonds in connection with the employment of orice cashiers and 

other subordinates who are required to handle Government money in 
the course of their official work ; by the Director of Inspection ( Cus 
tom and Central Excise ) . 


680 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1966 / VAISAKHA 8 , 1888 


[PART IL 


( ii ) Leases of land and leases and surrender of buildings , or immovable pro 

perty ; by the Director / Deputy Director of Inspection ( Customs and 

Central Excise ) . 
7. All contracts and instruments relating to Estate Duty ; by the Controllers of 
Estate Duty . 

8 . In the case of Central Revenues Control Laboratory, New De hi: 

Security bonds in connection with the employment of cashier , Instrument 
Maker and Laboratory clerk for handling Government money and stores in the 
course of their official work ; by the Chief Chemist , Central Revenues Control 
Laboratory . 


9. In the case of Central Excise Collectorates functioning as Customs Collec 
torates : 
( i ) All contracts, deeds or instruments relating to the Central Excise Col 

lectorates functioning as Customs Collectorates ; by the Collector , 
Assistant Collector , Superintendent, Deputy Superintendent or Inspec 
tor of Central Excise appointed to be Collector , Assistant Collector 
and officers of customs respectively under section 4 ( 1 ) of the Customs 

Act, 1962; within their respective jurisdictions. 
( 11) Contracts for the lease of land in the control of Central Excise Collec 

torates functioning as Customs Collectorates , where such lease is 
otherwise permissible ; by the Collector of Central Excise appointed to 

he Collector of Customs under section 4 ( 1) of the Customs Act , 1962. 
( ill ) Contracts or other instruments for the purchase , supply and conveyance 

of furniture, stores and other equipment; by the Collector of Central 
Excise appointed to be Collector of Customs under section 4 ( 1 ) of the 

Customs Act , 1962. 
( iv ) Leases of land and lcases and surrender of buildings or other immov 

able property ; by the Collector of Central Excise appointed to be the 

Collector of Customs under section 4 ( 1 ) of the Customs Act, 1962 . 
( v ) Security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their sure 

ties to secure the duc cxecution of an office or the due accounting for 
money or other property received by virtue thereof; by the Collector 
of Central Excise or the Assistant Collector of Central Excise appoint 
ed to be the Collector and Assistant Collector of Customs under sec 
tion 4 ( 1 ) of the Customs Act , 1962 ; within their respective jurisdic 

tions . 
( vi) Agreements for hiring of buildings in their respective jurisdictions; by 

the Assistant Collector of the Superintendent of Central Pachee 
appointed to be the Assistant Collector of Customy and officer of C218 
toms respectively , under section 4 ( 1 ) of the Customs Act, 1962, 


D . In the case of the Ministry of Finance (Defence ) . 
In the case of the Defence Accounts Department: — 
(1) All instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security ; by the Controller General or the Deputy Controller General of 
Defence Accounts or the Controllers or the Joint Controllers of Defence 

Accounts in the Defence Accounts Department, 
( 11) Agreements for the hire of houses required for accommodation of 

Defence Accounts Officers ; by the Controllers or the Joint Controllers of 

Defence Accounts in the Deferice Arcounts Department. 
(ill) Service agreements with the Government servants in the Defence 

Accounts Department whether permanent or tenupurary ; by the Con 
troller General or the Deputy Controller General ( Azri71 tration ) OT 
the Deputy Controllem Genrral of Defence Account or the Controllers 
or the Joint Controllers of Defence Accounts in the Det," c ? Accounts 

Department. 
( 17 ) Contracts and deeds connected with any other business of the Defence 

Accounts Department; by the Controller General or the Deputy Con 
troller General ( Administration ) or the Controllers or the Joint Con 
trollers of Defence Account ; in the Defence Accounts Department. 


$ x . 8 (1) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1966 /VAISAKHA 8 , 1888 


681 


( v ) Instruments relating to the ſeassignment of insurance policies assigned 

to Governor General before the 26th January , 1950 and to the Presi 
dent on or after that date in accordance with the rules regulating the 
General Provident Funds ( Defence Services ) , the Defence Services 
Officers Provident Fund , the Indian Ordnance Department Provident 
Fund , the MES Contributory Provident Fund and other Provident 
Funds on the Defence side ; by Accounts Officer of the Fund , as defined 
in the rules of the respective Funds. 


VJI. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF FOOD , AGRICULTURE COMMUNI 

TY DEVELOPMENT AND COOPERATION . 
A . In the case of the Department of Agriculture: - - 
1. In the case of the Exploratory Tubewells Organisation. 
( 1) ( a ) All instruments relating to purchase , supply and conveyance or carri 

age of materials , stores and machinery ; 
( b ) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con 

nected with the construction of tube - wells ; 
( c ) bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance and 

completion of works ; and 
( d ) security bonds for the performance of their duties by Government 

servants whom the officers specified below have power to appoint; 


by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of Agricul 
ture concerned with Exploratory Tubewells Organisation ; Chief Engineer , 
Exploratory Tubewells Organisation or Superintending Engineer, Exploratory 
Tubewells Organisation or Executive Engineer , Exploratory Tubewells Organisa 
tion . 


( 11) All instruments connected with the reconveyance of any property given 

as security ; by the Chief Engineer, Exploratory Tubewells Organisa 

tion . 
(11) Agreements relating to the loan of tools and plants to contractors and 

others; by the Chief Engineer, Exploratory Tubewells Organisation , 
(iv ) All agreements , leases for hiring of buildings and other immovable pro 

perty ; by the Chief Engineer or the Executive Engineer , Estploratory 
Tubeweils Organisation . 


2 . In the case of the Indian Research Institutes : - 


(1) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Indian Agricultural Re 

search Institute and its sub - stations ; by the Director of the Registrar, 

Indian Agricultural Research Institute , New Delhi. 
( u ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Central Potato Research 

Institute , Simla and its sub - stations; by the Director , Central Potato 

Research Institute , Simla . 
( ili) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Central Rice Research 

Institute , Cuttack and its sub - stations; by the Director, Central Rice 

· Research Institute , Cuttack . 
(iv ) ( a ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Indian Veterinary 

Research Institute , Izatnagar and Mukteswar ; by the Director or 
the Registrar, Indian Verterinary Research Institute , Iratnagar and 

Mukteswar. 
( b ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Indian Veterinary 

Research Institute , Mukteswar branch only ; by the Assistant Ad 
ministrative Officer at Indian Veterinary Research Institute , Muk 

teswar. 
( v ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the National Dairy Re 

search Institute , Karnal and its Southern Regional Station , Bangalore; 
by the Director of Dairy Research , National Dairy Research Institute , 
Karnal. 


682 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1968 /VAISAKHA ), 1888 


[PART 11 – 


( vi) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Indian Council of Agri 

cultural Research ; by the Vice President, Indian Council of Agricul 
tural Research , 


(vii ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Forest Research Insti 

tute and Colleges or its subordinate formations; by the President, 
Forest Research Institute and Colleges or such Directors OT " Heads of 
Office of the Forest Research Institute and Colleges as are empower 
ed by the President of the Institute in this behalf upto a limit of 
Rs. 5 , 000 in each case . 


( vill) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Delhi Zoological Park ; by 

the Superintendent , Delhi Zological Park . 


( ix ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Sugarcane Breeding In 

stitute , Coimbatore and Sugarcane sub - station , Karnal; by the Direc 
tor, Sugarcane Breeding Institute , Coimbatore , 


( x ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Indian Institute of 

Sugarcane Research , Lucknow ; by the Director , Indian Institute of 
sugarcane Research , Lucknow . 


( xi ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Central Arid Zone Re 

search Institute , Jodhpur ; by the Director , Central Arid Zone Re 
search Institute , Jodhpur 


( xil) Contracts and other instruments relating to Soil Conservation , Research 

Demonstration and Training Centres ; by the respective Officer- in 
charge. 


(x111) Contracts and other instruments relating to the supply of feed to the 

Regional Poultry Farm , Bombay / Bhubaneswar / Bangalore ; by the 
Oficer in charge Regional Poultry Farm , Bornbay / Bhubneswar/ 

Bangalore . 
( xiv ) Contracts and instruments with persons other than Government ser 

vants applying for permission to travel by aircraft belonging to Gov 

ernment; by the pilot in Command of the aircraft." 
3 . In the case of the Central Tractor Organisation : 


(1) (a ) 


All instruments relating to purchase , supply and 
carridge of materials , stores and machinery ; 


conveyance 


or 


(b ) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con 

nected with the repairs of machinery and reclamation of land ; and 


( c ) bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance of 

their duties by Government servants whom the officers specified 
below have power to appoint; by the Assistant Engineer : 


( 1 ) All instruments connected with the reconveyance of any property given 

as security ; by the Assistant Engineer . 


4 . In the case of the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 
India : 
(1 ) All hire - purchase agreements with regard to supply of grading 

machines , and weighing scales with graders and packers ; by the Agri 
cultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India . 


( li ) Security bonds for the performance of their duties by Cashiers , Store 

keepers or other Government servants whom the officer specified 
below has power to appoint; by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser 
to the Government of India . 


( ili) All agreements or Jeases for hire of buildings, lands and other immov 

able property ; by the Agricultural Marketing Adziser to the Govern 
ment of India . 


Suc. 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


683 


5 . In the case of the Central Mechanised Farm , Suratgarb : - 
( 1) ( a ) All Instruments relating to purchuse, supply or conveyance or carri 

age of materials , stores and machinery ; 
(b ) bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance of 

their duties by Government servants ; 


(11) All instruments connected with thc reconveyanch of any property given 

as security ; 
( iii ) Agreements for the disposal and sales of stores belonging to the Farm ; 


( vi) Agrecments or leases for hire of buildings required for periods not ex 

ceeding one year; and 
( V ) Agreements relating to hire of machinery , tools and plants to Govern 

ment Organisations and private parties ; by the General Manager , 

Central Mechanised Farm , Suratgarh , 
6 . In the case of the Delhi Milk Scheme: -- 
All contracts and other instruments ; by the Chairman Delhi Milk Scheme. 

7. Contracts and other instruments relating to the Directorate of Extension ; by 
the Director ( Administration ) , Directorate of Extension , 

8 . Contracts and other instrumenst relating to the Extension Education Insti 
tute, Nilokheri; by the Principal, Extension Education Institute , Nilokheri. 
9. In the case of the Tractor Training and Testing Station , Budni: -- 
(1) All contracts and other instruments relating to 
( a ) purchase supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores and 

machinery ; 
( b ) the execution of works of all kinds connected with the repairs of 

machinery , reclamation or ploughing of land ; 
( c ) the reconveyance of any property given as security ; and 

( d ) the disposal and sale of stores ; 
( ii ) Bonds of auctioneers for the due performance and completion of works ; 
( ili ) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their 

suretles to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting 

for money or other property received by virtue thereof; 
( iv ) agreements or leases for the hiring of building for periods not exceed - 

ing one year at a time; by the Director, Tractor Training and Testing 

Station . 
10 . In the case of the Tractor Training Centre , Hissar (Punjab ) : - - 

(i) All contracts and other instrument relating to 
( a ) purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores and 

machinery , 
( b ) the execution of works of all kinds connected with the repairs of 

machinery, reclamation or ploughing of lands; 
( c ) the reconveyance of any property given as security ; and 

( d ) the disposal and sale of stores ; 
(ii) Bonds of auctioneers for the due performance and completion of works; 
( ii ) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their 

sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting 

for money or other property received by virtue thereof; 
(lv ) agreements or leases for the hiring of buildings for periods not exceed 

ing one year at a time; 
by the Director, Tractor Training Centre , Hissar (Punjab ) . 


684 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1968 / VAISAKHA ), 1888 


PART II 


11. In the case of the Directorate of Plant Protection , Quarantine and Storage 
( Including Locust Warning Organisation ) : 
(1 ) ( a ) all Instruments relating to purchase , supply , repairs and conveyance 

or carriage of materials, stores , machinery and vehicles ; by the 

Chlef Administrative Officer . 
Directorate of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage; 
( b ) all agreements or leages for hire of buildings , lands and other im 

movable property ; by the Chief Administrative Officer , Directorate 

of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage : 
( c ) all instruments relating to maintenance , repairs , certificates of air 

worthiness relating to various aircrafts of aerial unit of the Direc 
torate of Plant Protection , Quarantine and Storage ; by the Chief 
Administrative Officer, Directorate of Plant Protection , Quarantine 

and Storage ; 
(d ) agreements relating to the loans, hire of machinery, tools and plants 

to Government Organisations and private parties ; by the Chief 
Administrative Officer, Directorate of Plant Protection and Quran 

tine and Storage; 
(o ) security bonds for the performance of their duties by Cashier, Store 

keepers or other Government servants whom the Plant Protection 
Adviser has power to appoint; by the Chief Administrative Officer, 

Directorate of Plant Protection , Quarantine and Storage ; 
( 1 ) agreements relating to advances for the purchase of vehicles , scooter 

advance , house building advance etc ; by the Chief Administrative 

Officer , Directorate of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage ; 
( g ) Agreements and contracts relating to the payment of advaance sub 

scriptions for the purchase of technical publications etc .; by the 
Deputy Director ( Plant Diseases ) in the Directorate of Plant Pro 

tection , Quarantine and storage; and 
( h ) Agreements and contracts relating to the payment of advance sub 

scription for the purchase of non - technical publications etc.; by the 
Administrative Officer of the Directorate of Plant Protection 

Quarantine and storage . 
12 . In the case of Regional Poultry Farms; 

All contracts for the purchase of Poultry Feeds ; by the Officer -in - charge , Re 
pional Poultry Farms, Bombay , Bangalore and Bhubaneswar. 
13 . In the case of the Forest Department, Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 
( 1) All deeds, contracts and other instruments relating to the Andaman 

Forest Department; by the Chief Conservator of Forests , Conserva 
tor of Forests with the prior approval of the Chief Commissioner , 

Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 
(11) All deeds, contracts and other inst , uments relating to the Andaman 

Forest Department upto the limit of Rs. one lakh ; by the Deputy 
Conservator of Forests with the prior approval of the Chief Conser 

vator of Forest / Conservator of Forests . 
( 111) All deeds, contracts and other instruments relating to the Andaman 

Forest Department upto a limit of Rs. 50 , 000 ; by the Assistant Con 
servator of Forests (Depot Division ) . Andaman Government Tim 
ber Depot with the prior approval of the Chief Conservator of Forests / 
Conservator of Forests. 


B . In the case of the Department of Food : 
1 . ( a ) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase, supply , clearance , 

stevedoring, handling and conveyance or carriage of materials , stores , 

machinery and foodgrains ; 
(b ) security bonds for the due performance and completion of work ; and 
(c) all Instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security ; 


Str . 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 / VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


685 


- _ - _ 


" ( d ) all contracts and instruments relating to the grant of loans to en 

owner of a rice mill holding a valid licence under the Rice -Milling 
Industry (Regulation ) Act, 1958 ( 21. of 1958 ) in the various States" , 
by the Director General of Food , Deputy Director General 
of Food , A Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Minis 
try of Food & Agriculture , an Under Secretary to the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Food & Agriculture , Regional Director 
( Food ) , Directors , Joint Directors , Deputy Directors , the Chief Direc 
tor of Purchase , a Director of Purchase , a Joint Director of Purchase , 
a Deputy Director of Purchase or an Assistant Director of Purchase, 
Technical Adviser , Deputy Technical Adviser and Assistant Technical 

Adviser . 
2 . ( a ) All contracts and other instruments relating to the execution of works 

of all kinds connected with the additions and alterations to buildings 
and plants and with foundations and housing , installation and opera 

tion of machinery and electric and sanitary installations; and 
( b ) security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 

servants ; by the Director General of Food , Joint Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture Deputy 
Director General of Food , a Deputy Secretary to the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture , an Under Secretary to 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture or 
the Chief Director of Purchase , Technical Adviser, Deputy Technical 

Adviser and Assistant Technical Adviser. 
3 . ( a ) Leases of houses, lands or other immovable property ; and (b ) All ser 
vice Agreements ; by the Director General of Food , Deputy Director General of 
Food , a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , in the Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture , an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Food and Agriculture , Regional Directors ( Food ) . Directors, Joint Directors, 
Deputy Directors, or the Chief Director of Purchase . 

4 . All instruments and contracts relating to disposal of offal belonging to 
Government; by the Director General of Food , Deputy Director General of Food , 
a Deputy Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Food 
and Agriculture, un Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Food and Agriculture , Regional Directors (Food ) , Directors, Joint Directors , 
Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors , Chief Director of Purchase , a Director of 
Purchase , a Joint Director of Purchase , a Deputy Director of Purchase or an Assis 
tant Director of Purchase , 

5 . Agreement and other instruments, including release orders, relating to the 
sale of food grains ; by the Regional Directors (Food ) , Directors, Joint Dirertors, 
Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors, Technical Officers , Gorloun Superinten 
dents and Senior Godown Keepers , Department of Food . 
6 . In the case of contracts relating to sugar : 
( a ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the purchase or sale of 

sugar ; by the Chief Director , Directors and Deputy Directors in the 
Directorate of Sugar and Vanaspati or an Under Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture in 

charge of sugar . 
( b ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the supply . clearance , con 

voyance, or carriage of sugar ; by the Chief Director , Directors , Deputy 
Directors and Assistant Directors in the Directorate of Sugar and 
Vanaspatt or an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture in charge of sugar or the Directors 
in the Department of Food or the Regional Directors ( Food ) , Joint 
Directors or Deputy Directors, Bombay , Calcutta and Madras of the 
Secretary to the Government of Assam , Suppln/ A Department or 

the Assistant Directors ( Supply ) , Government of Assam . 
(c ) Contracts and other instruments relating to lease of houses, godowns , 

lands or other immovable property by an Under Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture in 
charge of sugar, Chief Director , Directors , Deputy Directors in the 
Directorate of Sugar and Vanaspati, Or Regional Directors (Food ) and 

Deputy Directors , Bombay , Calcutta and Madras. 
7 . Contracts and other instruments relating to the National Sugar Institute , 
Kanpur; by the Director , National Sugar Institute , Kanpur. 


686 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1988 / VAISAKHA , 1888 


PART II 


886 THE CALETTK OF INDIA:APRIL 28, 1960/VABAE 


8 . In the case of contracts relating to fisherics: - - 
( a ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the fisheries extension 

Units ; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture or an Under Secretary to the Gov 
ernment of India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture in charge of 

Fisheries Development Schemes. 
(b ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Deep Sea Fishin 

Station , Bombay and the Decp Sea Fishing Sub - station , Veraval; bu 

the Superintending Engineer , Deep Sea Fishing Station , Bombay . 
( c ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Off - shore Fishing 

Station at Mangalore, Veraval, Cochin , Tuticorin and Visakhapatnam ; 
by the Superintending Engineer Deep Sea Fishing Station , Bombay or 
the Deputy Director / Assistant Director in administrative charge of 

the Station concerned . 
( d ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Central Marine Fishe 

ries Research Institute , Mandapam Camp, by the Director , Centrat 

Marine Fisheries Research Institute , Mandapam Camp. 
( e ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Central Inland Fishe 

ries Research Institute, Barrachkpore ; by the Director, Central Inland 

Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore. 
( 1 ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Central Institute of 

Fisheries Technology , Ernakulam ; by the Director, Central Institute 

of Fisheries Technology , Ernakulam . 
( g ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Central Institute of 

Fisheries Education , Bombay ; by the Director , Central Institute of 

Fisheries Education , Bombay . 
( h ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Indo -Norwegian Pro 

ject, Ernakulam ; by Director, Indo - Norwegian Project, Ernakulam , 


9 . All contracts regarding the purchase of foodgrains in Australia , by the 
Indian Government Trade Commissioner in Australia and the High Commissioner 
for India in Australia ; in London through the Australian Wheat Committee , Lon 
don ; by the High Commissioner for India , London and the Minister ( Economic ) 
in the High Commission of India , London ; in Argentina , by the Ambassador for 
India in Argentia ; in Burma, by the Ambassador for India in Burma ; in the U . A . R ., 
by the Ambassador for India in the UA, R ., in Thailand , by the Ambassador for 
India in Thailand . 


Development and Co 


C . In the case of the Department of Community 
operation 


1 . (1) all contracts and instruments relating to purchase , hire , repair and 

carriage of materlals , stores , machinery, etc .; 
( u ) all contracts and agreements relating to disposal of surplus, obsolete 

and waste stores ; and 
( l ) all guarantees undertaking to pay water and electric charges to the 

Delhi Municipal Corporation /New Delhi Municipal Committee on 
behalf of Government servants ( including gazetted officers ) etc ., em 

ployed in the Ministry of Community Development and Cooperation ; 
( ly ) all guarantees to be afforded on behalf of the Central Government to 

the Reserve Bank of India , State Bank of India and the Agricultural 
Refinance Corporation against borrowings from them ; by an Under 
Srcretary to tho Government of India , Department of Community 

Development and Cooperation . 
2. In the case of the National Institute of Community Development: 
( a ) all instruments relating to purchase , supply or conveyance or carriage 

of materials , stores and machinery ; 
( b ) agrrements relating to catering in hostels and messes ; by the Principal , 

National Institute of Community Development or a Deputy Secretary 
to the Government of India in the Departinent of Community Deve 
lopment and Cooperation .. 


SICK 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25, 1968 /VAISAKHA 8 , 1888 


687 


= 


= 


( c ) agreements and contracts relating to lease of houses , land or other 

immovable property ; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of 
India in the Department of Community Development and Coopera 

tion . 
VIII. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH : 
( 1 ) Contracts and other instruments for the Medical Store Depots: 
( a ) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase , supply and convey 

ance or carriage of medical stores and machinery ; by the Director 
General of Health Services , the Director of Administration , Assistant 
Director General of Health Services ( Stores ) , Deputy Assistant Direc 
tor Gencral (Medical Stores ), Medical Stores Depots , Depot Manager , 
Medical Store Depot, Hyderabad , Deputy Director General Health 

Services ( C .G .H . S . ) or Assistant Director General ( C .G . II. S . ) . 
( b ) All instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con 

nected with the additions and alterations to buildings and plants and 
foundations and housing of machinery and electric and sanitary instal 
lations ; by the Director General of Health Services , the Director of 
Ariministration , Assistant Director General of Health Serrices ( Stores ) , 
Deputy Assistant Director General Medical Stores ) , Medical Stores 
Depots , Deputy Director General Health Services ( C .G . H . S . ) or Assis 

tant Director General ( C .G . H . S.) . 
( 2 ) In the case of the Port / Airport Health Organisations under the Central 
Government: 


Contracts for the supply of articles of dead stock or petty supplies or for the 

sale of useless , unclaimed or confiscated articles; by the Port Health 
Oficers, Madras, Bombay , Calcutta , Vishakapatnam , Kandla or Cochin 
or the Altport Health Oncer, Bombay Airport (Santa Cruz ), Calcutta 
Airport (Dum Dum ), Tiruchirapalli, Or Delhi Airport (Palam ) . 


(3 ) In the case of ( 1 ) the Ma aria Institute of India , Delhi ( now called 
National Institute of Communicable Diseases ) ; ( 2 ) Directorate of N . M . E . P ; ( 3 ) 
the All - India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health Calcutta ; ( 4 ) the Central 
Research Institute , Kasauli ; (5 ) the Central Drugs Laboratory, Calcutta ; and (8 ) 
the B . C .G . Vaccine Laboratory , Guindy, Madras; 
(1) Contracts for the supply of articles of food and fodder for animals or of 

other articles required for Laboratory work ; by the Directors of the 

respective institutions. 
( ii ) Agreements relating to H . T . Supply of electricity to the B . C . G . Vaccine 

Laboratory by the Madras State Electricity Board : by the Director, 
B . C .G . Vaccine Laboratory , Guindy , Madras . 


( 4 ) In the case of the Serologist and Chemical Examiner to the Government of 
India Calcutta :-- 
Contracts for the purchase of animals for Laboratory work or contracts for 

the purchase of articles of food or for the purchase of fodder for such 
animals ; by the Serologist and Chemical Examiner to the Government 
of India , Calcutta . 


(5 ) In the case of the Hospital for Mental Diseases, Ranchi: 
Contracts for the supply of food - stuffs , vegetables , provisions, fodder for ani 

mals or of other articles required for hospital and laboratory work ; 

by the Medical Superintendent, Hospital for Mental Diseases , Ranchi, 
( 6 ) In the case of the College of Nursing, New Delhi: 
Contracts for the supply of food - stufts, vegetables, provisions and other arti 

cles for the mess of the College Hostel; by the Principal College of 

Nursing, New Delhi. 
( 7 ) In the case of the Lady Reading Health School, Delhi; 
Contracts for the apply of food - stufts, vegetables, provisions and other arti 

cles for the mess of the School Hostel ; by the Superintendent, Lady 
Reading Health School, Delhi. 


688 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1986 / VAISAKHA 8, 1889 


[PART II 


(8 ) In the case of the Rural Health Training Centre, Najafgarh : 
Contracts for the supply of food - stuffs , vegetables , provisions and other arti 

cles for the health centres and the hostel ; by the Officer - in - Chatge 

Rural Health Training Centre, Najafgarh , 
(9 ) In the case of _ Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi and Willingdon Hospital & 
Nursing Home, New Delhi: 
Contracts for the supply of food -stuffs , vegetables and other articles for the 

hospitals and also contracts for cycle stands; by the Medical Super 

Intendents of the Safdarjang and willingdon Hospitals , New Delhi. 
( 10 ) In the case of the Family Planning Organisation in the Directorate Gene 
ral of Health Services, New Delhi: 
All contracts and instruments relating to purchase , supply and conveyance 

or carriage of medicines and machinery etc,; by the Director, Family 

Planning, New Delhi, 
( 11 ) In all other cases pertaining to the Directorate General of Health Services 
and the offices subordinate to it: -- 
All deeds and Instruments relating to any matters other than those herein 

before specified ; by the Director General of Health Services or the 

Director of Administration . 
IX . IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS : 

A . 1. Security Bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 
servants ; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs , the Director , Intelligence Bureau , the Inspector General, Delhi Spe 
cial Police Establishment, the Registrar General of India , the Commandant, Cen 
tral Police Training College , Mount Abu , the Director , Co - ordination ( Police Wire 
less ) , the Director , Secretariat Training School, New Delhi, the Director, Central 
Emergency Relief Training Institute, Nagpur, the Director , Central Bureau of 
Correctional Services. 

2 . Bonds from trainees _selected for admission into the training College /Centre ; 
by the Commandant of a Battalion in the Central Reserve Police . 

9 . Bonds from Government servants ( under the administrative control of the 
Registrar General of India ) selected for award of scholarships or fellowships in 
foreign countries ; by the Registrar General of India . 

4 . Contracts for running the catering service at the hostels of the National Fire 
Service College, Nagpur and the Central Emergency Relief Training Institute , 
Nagpur; by the Director General of Civil Defence or the Deputy Director General 
of Civil Defence. 

5 . Contracts for the purchase of milk ( including curd ) and firewood required 
for consumption in the Central Reserve Police Hospital, Neemuch ; by the Medical 
Superintendent and Staff Surgeon , Central Reserve Police Hospital, Neemuch . 

8 . Contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance subscrip 
tions for the purchase of newspapers , magazines, periodicals , etc . for use in the 
Central Emergency Relief Training Institute, Nagpur ; by the Director , Central 
Emergency Relief Training Institute, Nagpur. 


7 . Contracts with private parties for the transportation of stores , rations etc ., 
to check posts in the State of Jummu and Kashmir ; by the Assistant Director, In 
telligence Bureau at Leh , 

8 . Contracts and other instruments relating to purchase , supply and convey 
ance, or carriage of rations and other articles of food and fuel for internees in 
the Central Internment Camp, Deoli; by the Commandant, Central Internment 
Camp , Deoli. 

9 . Leases of land , houses and other immovable property , in 80 far as such 
leases relate to and fall within their respective jurisdiction ; by the Director , In 
telligence, Bureau , the Deputy Director, Intelligence Bureau , the Commandant, 
Central Forensic Institutes , Calcutta , the Inspector General, Central Reserde 
Police , the Commandant, Central Police Training College , Mount Abu , the 
Deputy Inspector General, Delhi Special Police Establishment, the Director Co 
ordtration (Police Wireless ) the Director , Central Bureau of Correctional Şer 
olces, the Director , National Academy of Administration , Mussoorie . 


Stc. (1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1960 /VAISAKHA 3 , 1B88 


489 


10 . Service contracts for the repair and maintenance of water -coolers installed 
in office -buildings occupied by the Ministry of Home Affairs in Delhi and New 
Delhi; by an Under Secretary or a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Home Affairs. 

11 . Contracts and other instruments for the purchase of dry and fresh ration 
for the Indo - Tibetan Border Police ; by the Special Inspector General, Indo - Tibe 
tan Border Police ; Deputy Inspector General, Indo - Tibetan Border Police ; A 
Commandant, Indo - Tibetan Border Police, A Company Commander , Indo - Tibe 
tan Border Police. 

B In the case of Union Public Service Commission : 
1. ( 1 ) Contracts and other instruments relating to advances granted by the 

Government to Officers and members of the staff of the Union Public 
Service Commission for the purchase of motor cars , motor cycles or 

sites for building houses or for building houses ; 
( 11 ) Contracts relating to advances for the purchase of daily newspapers, 

journals or periodicals, for the Union Public Service Commission : 
( iii) Guarantee undertakings to pay water and electric charges to the Delhi 

Municipal Corporation /New Delhi Municipal Committee on behalf 
of Government servants ( including gazetted officers ) employed in the 

Omce of the Union Public Service Commission ; 
( iv ) Guarantee undertakings to pay water and electricity charges to the 

Delhi Municipal Corporation /New Delhi Municipal Committee in 
respect of the buildings occupied by the office of the Union Public 

Service Commission ; 
( v ) ( a ) purchase, hire , repair , polishing, painting, clearance, conveyance 

or carriage of mate _ ials including furniture, stores , machines , rail 

way and air parcels, 
( b ) washing and cleaning of towels and other items belonging to the 

office ; 
(c ) disposal of waste paper and obsolete stores; 

(d ) supply of casual labour required for office work ; 
( e ) binding of books; 
( 1) tiffin room , fruit /betal stall and cycle stand ; 
( vi ) Advances for the purchase of table Fans to Class Staff ; by the Under 

Secretary in the Union Public Service Commission . 
X . IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY ; 
1. (1 ) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase, supply and convey 

ance or carriage of materials , stores , machinery ; 
( 4 ) Security bonds for due performance and completion of work and all 

service agreements and security bonds for due performance of their 

duties by Government servants ; 
( 111 ) Leases of houses, land or other immovable property ; 
( iv ) Miscellaneous contracts and instruments not specificd above; by a 

Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of 

Industry and Supply . 
2 . All contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 
subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers , magazines, periodicals etc ; by u 
Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Industry and 
Supply , the Deputy Economic Adviser, Deputy Salt Commissioner , Jaipur / Bombay , 
Madras , Assistant Salt Commissioner , " Calcutta /Mandi, Controller General of 
Patents, Designs and Trade Marks. 

3 . Contracts and assurances of property relating to the Salt Administration 
under the Salt Commissioner : 
(i ) All contracts, deeds or other instruments relating to the execution of 

salt works or the purchase , sale or transport of salt ; the supply of 
labour, stores, building materials , and any other like engagements 


(ü ) Securityce agreementsment 
serv 


600 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 / VAISAKHA 9, 1888 


PART 11 – 


relating to the Salt Administration ; by the Salt Commissioner Or 
Deputy Salt Commissioner, Bombay / Madras or Assistant Salt Com 

missioner , Calcutta /Mandi, within their respective jurisdiction . 
( ii) ( a ) Contracts for the lease of land in control of Salt Administration 

where such leasc is otherwise permissible ; 
( b ) Leases of land and leases and surrender of buildings or other im 

movable property ; 
( c ) Security bonds in connection with the employment of Cashiers and 

other subordinates who are required to handle Government money 

In the course of their official duty ; and 
( d ) Contracts or other instruments for the purchase, supply and con 

veyance of furniture and stores ; by the Salt Commissioner or De 
puty Salt Commissioner , Jaipur /Madras/ Bombay or Assistant Salt 

Commissioner, Calcutta /Mandi, within their respective jurisdiction . 
( 111 ) Leasc of land for salt _manufacture ; by Salt Commissioner or Deputy 

Salt Commissioner , Bombuy / Madras or Assistant Salt Commissioner , 

Calcutta / Mandi, within their respective jurisdiction . 
( iv ) Leases of land for salt manufacture in Government Salt Factories in 

the States of Madras , Andhra Pradesh and Kerala ; by the Deputy 
Salt Commissioner , Madras Ot Assistant Salt Commissioners , within 

their respective jurisdictions. 
(v ) Leases of Government Salt Factories in Bombay ; by the Deputy Salt 

Commissioner , Bombay . 
(vi) All contracts and other instruments relating to the exccution of Salt 

works or the purchase, sale or transport of salt, the supply of labour 
or the purchasc, supply and conveyance or carriage of stores, build 
ing materials , machinery , and contracts for petty construction and 
repairs and for public works of every description which are executed 
by the Salt Administration ; by the Assistant Commissioner of Salt 
within their respective jurisdictions and within the limit of the value 

of Rs. 5 ,000 . 
( vil ) Contracts and other instruments relating to Salt imported into the 

States of West Bengal, and Orissa by Sea ; by the Salt Commissioner 
Deputy Salt Commissioner, Jaipur or within the limit of the vulue of 

Rs. 5 ,000 by the Assistant Salt Commissioner , Calcutta . 
(viii) Leases of land situated within and outside the declared area of a salt 

factory and unft for salt manufacture, but fit for ; 


(a ) Grow More Food Campaign ; 
(b ) Paddy cultivation ; 
( c ) Building residential quarters ; 
( d ) Casuarina plantation ; or 

( e ) Any other purpose sanctioned by a competent authority ; 
by the Deputy Salt Commissioner , Bombay /Madras Or Assistant Salt Commis 
stoner , Mandi / Calcutta , within their respective jurisdiction . 


( 1x ) Leases of fishing right and acceptance of tenders thereof. 
( a ) If the amount of value does not exceed Rs. 5 , 000 in cach case ; by the 

Deputy Salt Commissioner in Jaipur or Madras or Bombay or an 
Assistant Salt Commissioner , within his respective jurisdiction ; 

and 
( b ) If such amount or value exceeds Rs. 5 ,000 in each case ; hy the Salt 

Commissioner. 
( x ) Service Agreements , bu a Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Industry 

and Su01711 in teenict of Class I posts and Solt Corrimirrier in res 

pect of General Central Service ( Class II and Class III ) Pusts . 
4. ( 1) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Office of the Develop 

ment Commissioner, for Small Scale Industries , by the Development 


SEC 30)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1986 /VAISAKHA 8, 1898 


691 


Commissioner for Small Scale Industries, the Joint Development 

Commissioner or the Director , 
( ii ) contracts and assurances relating to Small Industries Service Institutes ; 

by Directors of the concerned $ mall Industries Service Institute ; 
( iii ) contracts and other instruments relating to the Northern / Fastern / 

Western / Southern Small Scale Industries Public Works Division ; by 
the Deputy Director ( Industrial Colonies and Construction ) concern 

ed ; 
( iv ) contracts and instruments relating to the payment of advance subscrip 

tions for the purchase of newpapers, magazines, periodicals etc . re 
lating to Small Industries Service Institutes and Extension Centres 
under them , by the Head of office; and those relating to the office of 
the Development Commissioner , Small Scale Industries , by the Joint 

Development Commissioner ; 
( v ) ( a ) security Bonds of Cashiers and other Government servants or their 

sureties to secure the due execution of an once or the due account 
ing for money or other property received by virtue thereof, in 
Small Industries Service Institutes and Extension Centres under 

them ; 
(b ) service agreements in Small Industries Service Institutes and Ex 

tension centres under them ; 
( c ) contracts relating to lcascs of land , houses and other immovable pro 

perties in the Small Industries Service Institutes ; 
by the Director ; and in the office of the Development Commissioner, Small Scale 
Industries , by the Joint Development Commissioner . 

5 . Contracts and assurances of property relating to the administration of the 
Trade and Merhcandise Marks Act, 1958 under the Controller General of Patents, 
Designs and Trade Marks; 

(i) contracts for work relating to the printing of Trade Marks Journal; 
( ii) security bonds (in Fidelity Guarantee Bond ) in connection with the 

employment of Cashiers and other subordinates who are required to 

handle Government money in the course of their official duty ; and 
. ( iii ) all contracts and other instruments relating to payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines , periodicals 
etc ; by the Controller General of Patents , Designs and Trade Marks. 


6 . Contracts for work relating to printing of patent specifcations and other 
Allied publications of the Patent offlce; by the Controller General of Patents , De 
signs and Trade Marks. 
XI . IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROAD 

CASTING : 
1. In the case of All India Radio : 
(i ) contracts and other instruments relating to the All India Radio ; by the 

Director General, the Deputy Director General ( Administration ), Pro 
ject Officers , Station Director , or where there is no Station Director , by 
an Assistant Station Director, Deputy Director ( Administration ), Deputy 
Development Officer ( Administration ). Director of News Services 
Division , Director of Erternal Services Division , Director of Transcrip 
tion and Programme Exchange Services , Director, Monitoring Service 
Unit , Research Engineer, Maintenance Engineer or the Station Engi 
neer (Wire Broadcasting ) , the Station Engineer / Assistant Station En 

gineer - in - charge of Auxiliary / Vividh Bharati Centre of A . I. R .; 
(11 ) all contracts and other instruments relating to engineering inatters of 

AIR by the Chief Engincer ; 
( iii) all contracts and instruments relating to the publication of the Radio 

Journals ; hy the Editor of the Assistant Editor of the Radio Journal 
concerned ; 


( iv ) contracts to be entered into with artistes engaged by All India Radio : 

by the Deputy Director of News Services, Administrative Officer News 


692 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1960/VAISAKHA 3, 1880 


PART II 


Services Division , Deputy Directors of External Services , Axistant 

Station Directors , or by the Programme Executive. 
2 . In the case of the Press Information Bureau : 
All contracts and instruments relating to 
(i) purchase , supply and conveyance or carriage of materials , stores, equip 

ments and repairs and servicing thereof; 
(ii ) disposal of surplus obsolete and waste stores; by the Principal Informa 

tion Officer , the Deputy Principal Information Officer, the Assletant 

Principal Information Officer and Information Officer, Jullundur , 
3. In the case of the Publications Division : 


(i) all contracts and instruments relating to the writing of books, copyright; 

by the Director of the Deputy Director (Editorial) ; 
( II) all contracts and instruments relating to the printing and production of 

publications ; by the Director or the Deputy Director ( Production ) ; 
( ili) all contracts and instruments relating to the sale , agency , stocking of 

publications and advertisements published in such publication ; by the 
Director, the Business Manager in so far as such contracts and instru 

ments relate to and fall within his jurisdiction ; 
( iv ) Agreements for the purchase or sale of stores, and other materials ( in 

cluding waste material) ; by the Director or the Deputy Director, 


4 . In the case of Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity : 


( 1) ( a ) all contracts and instruments relating to the advertisements , printing, 

publishing or issue of publications, space selling or exhibitions; 
(b ) rate contracts for booking of space in newspapers , journals, etc.; 
( c ) contracts relating to the production or display of various kinds of 

outdoor publicity material; by the Director of Advertising and visual 

Publicity or the Deputy Director of Advertising and Visual Publicity ; 
( ii) ( a ) agreements for the purchase or sale of stores, equipment and other 

materials ( including waste material) ; 
( b ) contracts with private contractors for the carriage of consignments of 

stores , from or to the Headquarters ; 
( c ) contracts for the supply / purchase of publications; by the Director of 

Advertising and Visual Publicity or the Deputy Director ( Adminis 

tration ) ; 
( il ) contracts and instruments relating to exhibitions upto Rs. 5 ,000 .00 in 

each case ; by the Exhibition Oficer ; 


( iv ) contracts and instruments relating to printing upto Rs. 10,000 . 00 in each 

case ; by the Production Manager. 
( v ) contracts relating to the production or display of various kinds of out 

door publicity material upto Rs. 5 , 000 . 00 ; by the Outdoor Publicity 

Officer . 
( vi) contracts and instruments relating to printing upto Rs. 1 ,000. 00 in each 

case ; by the Assistant Production Manager ; 
(vil ) ( a ) letters of Indemunity preseribed by the Reserve Bank of India for 

Issue of duplicate Demand Drafts , 
( h ) transfer of deposit certifcate forme required by the postal authorities 

for pledging the deposit certificates in favour of the President of India ; 

by the Drawing and Disbursing Officer . 
5. In the case of the Films Division : 
(1) ( a ) contracts and other instruments relating to the purchase of the Alms 

for the Film Division ; 


SEC. 3( )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 9, 1888 602 

- - - - 
( b ) contracts and other instruments for the production of Alms for Gov 

ernment by private producers ; 
( c ) all contracts relating to the commercial distribution of Films Division s 

Alms in foreign countries ; 
( d ) service agreements entered into with musicians, artistes and Com 

mentary Writers , etc ., engaged on monthly fee basis ; 
( e ) contracts relating to the processing work of the Films Division ; 
( f) contracts and other instruments relating to the production of Alms in 

collaboration with organisations, e . g . UNESCO , W .HO . etc .; 
by the Controller of the Films Division , 
( ii) ( a ) contracts with private distributors in India for the distribution of full 

length films released by the Films Division ; 
(b ) contracts for the sale of waste films, sweeping ( or other salvage 

material); 
( c ) contracts for sale of stock shots ; 
( d ) contracts for sale of prints of films produced and / or released by the 

Films Division ; 
by the Officer - in -Charge of Distribution . 
(ii) ( a ) contracts and other instruments for the purchase of packing boxes 

and other stores; 
( b ) contracts for the sale of waste paper and other unservicable and 

salvaged materials ; 
( c ) all contracts and instruments for the loan of Cinematographic equip 

ment etc . to State Governments and private producers ; 
( d ) contracts and other instruments relating to advances guanted to Gov 

ernment servants for the purchase of motor cars , motor cycles , cycles 
or houses or for building houses or for medical attendance and 
treatment or for festivals or for floods , etc., or advances of Pay and 
T . A , on transfer and tour, or advances of pay to pergons proceeding 
on deputation abroad , or advances in respect of travel concession 

scheme during regular leave; 
( ey security bonds of cashiers and other Govt. servants or their sureties, 

to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for 

money or other property received by virtue thereof ; 
( 1 ) agreements or leases for the hiring of buildings required for the 

accommodation of officer at places other than New Delhi, Simla , 
Calcutta and Bombay provided that such hiring is within the com 
petence of the Controller of the Flims Division and that the period 

of lease does not exceed five years at a time; 
( g ) contracts and other instruments relating to repairs, servicing etc . of 

equipment, motor and all other types of vehicles or any other Govt . 

property ; 
by the Administrative Officer ; 
(iv ) all contracts and instruments relating to indemnity bonds for shooting 

facilities obtained for production of Alms; by the Production Manager , 

Films Division ; 
( v ) contracts to be entered into with artistes engaged by the Films Division 

in connection with the production of Alms; by the Administrative 

Officer or the Production Manager ; 
( vt) ( a ) all contracts for supply of films on rental for commercial and non 

commercial exhibition and free of rentals for non - commercial ex 

hibition in India ; 
(b ) Indemnity bonds to be executed for taking delivery of parcels from 

Railways and other carriers ; 
by the Branch Manager , Films Division or Officer - in - charge of Distribution , 
( vii ) all contracts and instruments relating to the payment of advance sub 

scriptions for newspapers, magazines , journals , periodicals etc.; 
Administrative Officer , Films Division , or Branch Manager, Filmg 
Division . 


604 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1968 /VAISAKHA 9 , 1888 


PART II 


6 . In the case of the Directorate of Field Publicity : 
All contracts and Instruments relating to - - 
(i ) purchase , supply and conveyance or carriage of materials , stores and 

equipment and repairs thereof; 
( 11 ) disposal of surplus and obsolete stores ; 
(iii) registered dramatic troupes and artistes relating to the song and Drama 

Division ; 
( lv ) hiring of accommodation ; 

( v ) security documents submitted by Accountants ; 
by the Director of Field Publicity , Regional Oficers, Directorate of Field Pub . 
licity . 
7 . In the case of the Song and Drama Division : 
(1) (a ) Contracts with authors of scripts for the purchase of copyright; 
(b ) agreements for the purchase or sale of stores, equipment and materials 

( including waste materials ) ; 
by the Director, Song and Drama Division . 
( ii ) contracts with artistes and dramatic troupes ; by the Director, Deputy 

Directors , Administrative Officer , Song and Drama Division , Regional 
Officers, Assistant Regional Officers, Directorate of Field Publicity , 
Field Publicity Officers, Mass Contract Officers , Publicity Organisers , 

Directorate of Field Publicity . 
8. In the case of the Central Board of Film Censors: --- 
Contracts and instruments relating to : 
( i) purchase , supply and conveyance or carriage and servicing of stores, 

materials , equipment, etc .; 
( 11 ) disposal of waste films, paper and other obsolete stores and materials ; 
by the Chairman , Central Board of Film Censors, 
9 . In the case of the Research and Reference Division : 
All contracts and instruments relating to the: - 
(1 ) purchase , supply and conveyance or carriage of material, storos , equip 

ment etc .; 
( ii) disposal of surplus, obsolete and waste paper ; 
( iii ) binding of books, newspapers, etc .; 
( iv ) payment of advance subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers , 

magazine, periodicals , etc .; and 
( v ) arrangement for extermination of white ants; 
by the Deputy Director, Research and Reference Division . 
10 . In the case of the Photo Division : 
All contracts and instruments relating to the: - 
( i ) purchase , supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores and 

equipment and repair thereof; 
( it ) disposal of surplus , obsolete and waste stores ; 

( iii ) sale of waste films, sweepings or other salvage materials ; 
by the Chief Photo Officer , Photo Division . 
11. In the case of the Film Institute of India : 
All contracts and instruments relating to the: 
(i) (a ) sale of waste Alms and other scrap materlals ; 

( b ) purchase of films for the Film Institute; 

(c ) allotment of canteens tiffin rooms, etc.; 
by the Administrative Officer, Film Institute . 


SEC, 80 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1886 


695 


( ii ) all contracts relating to renting of Studio and other facilities to pri 

vate producers in connection with the production of films; by the 

Principal, Film Institute , 
12 . Security bonds of cashiers and other Government Servants whom the 
officers specified below have the power to appoint, or their sureties, to secure the 
due execution of an office or the due accounting for money or other property 
received by virtue thereof; by the Director General, All India Radio , Deputy 
Director General ( Administration ) , All India Radio , Deputy Director of Adminis 
tration , All India Radio , Deputy Development Officer ( Administration ) , All India . 
Radio , Principal Information Officer , Director , Publications Division , Deputy 
Director ( Administration ) , Publications Division , Director of Advertising and 
Visual Publicity , Deputy Director ( Administration ) , Directorate of Advertising 
and Visual Publicity , Administrative Officer, Films Division , Director of Field 
Publicity , Regional Officers, Directorate of Field Publicity , Information Officer , 
Press Information Bureau while working in the Kerala Region of the Directorate 
of Field Publicity , Director , Song and Drama Division , Chairman , Central Board 
of Film Censors, Deputy Director, Research and Reference Division , Registrar of 
Newspapers for India , Principal or the Administrative Officer , Film Institute of 
India . 


13 . Agreements or leases for the hiring of buildings required for the accom 
modation of offices at places other than New Delhi, Simla , Calcutta and Bombay 
provided that such hiring is within his competence and that the period of lease 
does not exceed 5 years at a time; by all officers specified in clause 1 ( i ) concern 
ing the All India Radio , Principal Information Officer. Press Inforrnation Bureau , 
Director or Deputy Director , Publications Division , Deputy Director (Adininis 
tration ) , Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity , Administrative Officer , 
Films Division , Director of Field Prblicity , Regional Officers of the Directorate of 
Field Publicity , Information Officer , Press Information Bureau while working en 
the Kerala Region of the Directorate of Field Publicity . 

14 . All . contracts and instruments relating to repairs , servicing, etc., of equip 
ment, typewriters, moyiolas , motor and all other types of vehicles , bicycles or 
any other Government property ; by the Director or Deputy Director Publications 
Division , Director or the Deputy Director (Administration ) , Directorate of Adver 
tising and Visual Publicity , Administrative Officer , Films Division , Chairman , 
Central Board of Film Censors, Director of Field Publicity , Regional Officers of 
the Directorate of Field Publicity , Information Oncer , Press Information Bureau 
while working in the Kerala Region of the Directorate of Field Publicity . Director , 
Song and Drama Division , Administrative Officer, Film Institute of India . 

15 . All contracts and instruments relating to the payment of advance sub 
scriptions for newspapers, magazines , journals, etc .; by an Under Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting . all officers 
specified in clause 1 ( 1 ) concerning All India Radio , Principal Information Oficer , 
Deputy Principal Information Officer , Assistant Principal Information Oficer , 

Information Officers Ernakulam / Ahmedabad / Srinagar / Julluncur, Director or 
Deputy Director ( Administration ) , Publications Division , Director or Deputy 
Director (Administration ) , Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity , Branch 
Manager ( in the case of Branches ) and Assistant Administrative Officer ( in the 
case of main office ) of the Films Division , Chairman Central Board of Film Cen 
sot8, Director of Field Publicity , Regional Officers, Directorate of Field Publicity , 
Information Oficer, Press Information Bureau while working in the Kerala Region 
of the Directorate of Field . Publicity , Deputy Director, Research and Reference 
Division , Administrative Officer , Film Institute . 


16 . Al] service agrcements with the gazetted and non - gazetted officers, mugi 
cians, artistes, Commentary Writers . etc ., etc ., whom they have power to appoint 
for specified period of service ; hy all officers sepcified in clause 1 ( 1 ) concerning 
All India Radio , Director , Publications Division , Controller of Films Division , 

XII. IN THE CASE OF TIIE MINISTRY OF IRON AND STEEL : 
1. ( a ) contracts and / or other instruments relating to the payments of advance 

subscriptions for the purpose of newspapers , magazines, periodicals 
etc .; by Deputy Director ( Administration ) , Office of Iron and Steel 
Controller , Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the casc 

of Department of Iron and Steel. 
( b ) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their sure 

ties to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for 
money or other property received by virtue thereof; by Iron and Steel 


696 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 1, 1888 


(Part 1 


Controller , an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the case 

of Departinent of Iron and Steel. 
2 . ( a ) Bonds and guarantees şubmitted by importers / exporters in connection 

with the clearance / export of goods for the due tulfilment of conditions 

Imposed on the importers / exporters ; 
(b ) all contracts and / or other instruments relating to purchase , supply and 

conveyance or carriage of materials , stores, machinery , etc. , and 
( c ) security bonds for the performance and completion of works ; 
by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of Iron 
and Steel and the Iron and Steel Controller , or the Deputy Iron and Steel Control 
let, or the Price and Accounts Officer , or the Deputy Price and Accounts Officer , 
of the Deputy Director (Administration ) , Calcutta . 

3 . All agreements and / or instruments relating to the appointment and Control 
of Stock holders and re - rolling mills and supply of materials by such stock holders 
and mills ; by the Iron and Steel Controller or the Deputy Iron and Steel Controller 
or the Price and Accounts Officer or Deputy Price and Accounts Officer or Deputy 
Director ( Administration ) . 


4 . All contracts / or instruments relating to disposal of surplus, obselete and 
waste stores ( controlled categories of steel items only ) located in India and be 
longing to the Defence Services, Civil Departments of the Government of India , 
State Governments or Quasi-Government institutions, such as PORT TRUSTS 
etc .; by the Iron and Steel Controller and Deputy Iron and Steel Controller , Assis 
tant Iron and Steel Controller, Price and Accounts Officer , Deputy Price and 
Accounts Officer or Assistant Accounts Officer. 


XIIT. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION & POWER : – 


A . ( 1) All service agreements ; by Joint Secretary , Chief Engineer (Ganga 

Barrage ) or a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Irrigation & Power or Member, Central Water and Power 

Commission ; 
( ii) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their sure 

ties to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for 
money or other property received by virtue thereof; by Joint Secretary 
to the Government of India in the Ministry of Irrigation & Power , or 

Chairman , Central Water and Power Commission . 
( 111 ) contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers , magazines , periodicals 
etc .; by Secretary, Additional Secretary , Joint Secretary of a Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Irrigation & 
Power and Chairman or Secretary in the Central Water and Power 

Commission ; 
( iv ) leases of land , houses and other immovable properties ; by a Deputy 

Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Irrigation & 
Power and Superintending Engineer or Executive Engineer in the Cen 
tral Water and Power Commission . 


B . In the case of the Central Water and Power Commission : 


1. ( a ) All instruments relating to purchase , supply and conveyance or car 

riage of materials , stores, magazines and periodicals ; 
(b ) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds, con 

nected with buildings , bridges , roads, canals , tanks, reservoirs, docks 
and harbours and embankments , generation and transmission of 
electricity and instruments relating to the construction of water 
works, sewage works, the erection of machinery , the working of coal 

mines and bulk supply of electricity ; 
( c ) bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance and 

completion of works; and 
( d ) security bonds for the performance of their duties by Government 

servants ; by the Chairman , Vice Chairman , Members, Chief Engi 


Seci 81)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 / VAISAKIJA 3, 1888 


697 


neers, Deputy Chief Engineer , Secretary , Directors , Superintending 

Engineers, Deputy Directors or Excecutive Engineers. 
2 . Lcases for grazing cattle on canal banks or road sides , for fishing in 

canals, for the cultivation of lands, leases of water for irrigation and 
other purposes , leases of water power and instruments relating to sale 
of grass, trees or other produce on road sides or in plantations ; by 
Chairman , Chief Engineers, Directors, Superintending Engineers , Exe 

cutive Engineers, or Sub - Divisional Officers. 
3 . ( a ) Leases of houses , land or other immovable property provided that the 

rent reserved does not exceed Rs. 5,000 a month ; 
(b ) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security ; 
( c ) agreements for the recovery of fines on account of drift wood or other 

timber passing into a canal ; and 
( d ) agreements relating to crossing on canals , roads and bunds; 
by Chairman , Members , Chief Engineer , Directors, Superintending Engineers, 
Executive Engineers or Deputy Directors . 
4 , Instruments connected with the collection or framing of tools at bridges 

or ferries or other means of communication ; by Chairman , Members, 
Chief Engineers , Directors, Superintending Engineers , Deputy Direc 

tors or Executive Engineers. 
5 . Agreements relating to the loan of tools and plant to contractors and 

other ; by Superintending Engineers , Directors , Deputy Directors or 
Divisional Officers . 


6 . Agreements for catering contracts in hostels and tiffin rooms or for the 

protection of conveyance , belonging to the star working in public 

buildings ; by Chief Engineer , Directors or Executive Engineers, 
7 . Instruments relating to the sale of immovable property ( lands and build 

ings ) the book value of which does not exceed Rs. 10 , 000 ; by Chairman . 
8 . Agreements with retail distributors for the distribution of rationed arti 

cles ; by Chairman , Members or Chief Engineers . 
C . In the case of the Ganga Discharge Circle : --- 
1 . ( a ) All instruments relating to purchase , supply and conveyance or carriage 

of materials , stores , magazines and periodicals ; 
(b ) all instruments relating to the execution of wo- ks of all kinds con 

nected with buildings , bridges , roads, canals , tanks, reservoirs, docks 
and harbours and embankments , generation and transmission of elec 
tricity and Instruments relating to the construction of woter - works , 
sewage works, the erection of machinc . y , the working of coal mines 
and bulk supply of clectricity ; 


( c ) bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the duc performance and 

completion of works; 


( d ) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants whom the 

officers specified below have powers to appoint or their sureties, to 
secure the due exccution of an office or the due accounting for money 
or other property received by yirtue thereof; and 


( e ) lcases for grazing cattlc on canal banks or road sides , for fishing in 

canals , for the cultivation of lands, leases of water for irrigation and 
other purposes , Jeases of water power and instruments relating to sale 

of grass, trees or other produce on road sides or in plantation ; 
by Superintending Engineer , Erecutive Engineers , Assistant Executive Engi 
neers , Assistant Engineers or Sub - Divisional Oficers . 


2 . ( a ) Leases of houses, land or other immovable prope : ty provided that the 

rent reserved does not exceed Rs. 5 .000 a month ; 
(1)) all Instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security 


698 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1980 / VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


[PART II 


( c ) agreements for the recovery of fines on account of drift wood or other 

timber passing into a canal; 
( d ) agreements relating to crossing of canals, roads and bunds ; 
( e ) Instruments connected with the collection or farming of tolls at bridges 

or ferties or other means of communication ; 
( 1) agreements relating to the loan of tools and plant to contractors and 

others ; and 
( g ) contracts for catering in hostels and tiffin rooms or for the protection 

of conveyance belonging to the staff working in public buildings ; 
by Superintending Engineer or Executive Engineers . 

D . In the case of Farakka Barrage Control Board ( including Officer on Special 
Duty (Designs ) ] : 

All service agreements pertaining to Gazetted Class I and II officers ; by the 
Chief Engineer and Ex - officio Joint Secretary , Ministry of Irrigation and Power . 
Agreements relating to the service conditions of other officers ; by the authority 
competent to make the appointments concerned . 

E . In the case of the Farakka Barrage Project. 

1. Contracts and other instruments relating to advances granted to Governinent 
seryants for the purchase of motor cars , motor cycles , cycles or houses or for 
building houses or for medical attendance and treatment or for festivals , 
marriages , funeral or other ceremonies or for floods etc. transfer and tour, or 
advances of pay to persons proceeding on deputation abroad or advances in res 
pect of the Travel Concessions Scheme during regular leave; by the authorities 
granting the advance. 

2 . All service agreements pertaining to the service conditions of officers ; by the 
authority competent to make the appointments concerned . 

3 . Agreements relating to lease , hire and taking on rent or purchase of land 
or other immovable property like houses or other buildings ; by Chief Engineer or 
Superintending Engineer or Executive Engineer . 

4 . Contracts and other instruments in respect of accommodation provided in 
rented bulldings ( i) for hostels, tiffin rooms etc . ( ii) for the protection of convey 
ances belonging to the staff working in such rented buildings ( 111 ) for co -operative 
stores / societies /banks / canteens run by Employees association / societies ; by the 
Chief Engineer in respect of accommodation hired for his offices and by the Super 
intending Engineer in respect of accommodation hired for his office as well as for 
his subordinate offices . 

5 . Contracts for catering in hostels and tiffin rooms or for the protection of 
conveyance belonging to the staff working in public buildings; hy the personal 
Assistant to Chief Engineer Or Administrative Officer so far as Chief Engineer s 
Office is concerned and by Superintending Engineer in respect of his offices and 
offices subordinate to him . 

6 . Surety bonds relating to the grant of pension or provisional pension to Gov 
ernment servants or to displaced Government servants ; by the authority sanction 
ing the pension or provisional pension . 

7 . Contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance subscrip 
ton for the purchase of newspapers, magazines , periodicals etc. ; by the Chlet 
Engineer in respect of his office and by the Superintending Engineer in respect of 
his office and offices subordinate to him , 

8 . Security bonds of cashlers and other Government servants or their sureties 
to secure the due execution of an office or the due _ accounting for money or other 
property received by virtue thereof; by the Chief Engineer in respect of the Chief 
Engineer s office and by the Superintending Engineer concerned in respect of offices 
under him 
9 . ( a ) ( 1) All Instruments relating to purchase, supply , conveyance or carriage 

of materials, stores and machinery ; 
( ii) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con 

nected with building, bridges, roads , canals , tanks, reservoirs , docks 
and harbours and embankments , generation and transmission of 


DEC 30)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1986 /VABAKHA 8 , 1888 


699 


electricity and instruments relating to the construction of water 
works, sewage works, the erection of machinery, the working of 

coal mines and bulk supply of electricity ; 
(iii ) bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance and 

completion of works; 
( iv ) leases for grazing cattle on canal banks or road sides, for fishing in 

canals , for the cultivation of lands, water power and instrumente 
relating to sale of grass , trees or other produce on roadsides or In 

plantations; 
( v ) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security ; 
( v1) agreements for the recovery of fines on account of drift wood or other 

timber passing into a canal ; 
( vii ) agreements relating to crossing of canals , roads and bunds; 
( viii ) instruments connected with the collection or farming of tools at 

bridges or ferries or other means of communication ; 
by the Chief Engineer , Superintending Engineers or Executive Engineers or 
Sub -Divisional Officer and Chief Purchase Officer ; 
( b ) agreements relating to the loan of tools and plant to contractors and 

others; by Superintending Engineers or Executive Engineers ; 
( c ) contracts, agreements, and the like which can be executed ; 
by any authority , can also be executed by an authority superior to it, 

10. Instruments pertaining to all other items; by the Chief Engineer , even if the 
items fall outside the purview of the powers delegated to him , provided that the 
proposal relating to such items has been accepted by the competent authority . 
XIV - IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND 

REHABILITATION . 
A - - In the case of Deptt. of Labour and Employment. 

1 . All service agreements ; by a Deputy Secretary to the Gorernment of India 
in the Ministry of Labour and Employment. 

2 . Security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants whom the oicers 
specified below have the power to appoint or their sureties , to secure the due 
execution of an ofce or the due accounting for money or other property recelved 
by virtue thereof; by the Chief Labour Commisstoner (Central) , Deputy Chief, 
Labour Commissioner ( Central) , Regional Labour Commissioners ( Central) , the 
Presiding Officers of the National Tribunals / Industrial Tribunals / Labour Courts of 
the Central Government appointed under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the 
Principals of Central Training Institutes for Instructors , the Director Labour Bureau , 
the Chief Adviser Factories , Joint Chief Adviser Factories , Director of Research 
( Technical), Deputy Chief Adviser Factories (Safety Centre ), Central Labour Insti 
tute , Bombay ; Director ( Training) / Productivity / TWI Centre , Bombav ; Regional 
Director , Assistant Regional Director , Regional Labour Institute , Calcutta / Kanpur / 
Madras; Senior Inspector, Inspector, Dock Safety , Bombau / Calcutta / Madras; the 
Coal Mines Welfare Commissioner , Dhanbad , the Welfare Commissioner , Mica Mines 
Labout Welfare Fund in the State of Bihar , the Chairman Mica Mines Labour 
Welfare Fund Advisory Committee for Andhra Pradesh / Rajasthan ; Chief Inspector 
of Mines and Deputy Chief Inspector of Mines . 

3 . All contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance sub 
scriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines , periodicals etc .; by an Under 
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment 
(in charge of Administration ), Under Secretary in the Directorate General of Em 
ployment & Training, the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central), Deputy Chief 
Labour Commissioner (Central), Regional Labour Commissioners (Central). Presid 
ing Officers of the National Tribunals / Industrial Tribunals / Labour Courts of the 
Central Government appointed under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the Director 
Labour Bureau , the Chief Adviser Factories, Joint Chief Adviser Factories , the 
Inspector Dock Safety Bombay / Calcutta / Madras , the Deputy Chief Adviser Fac 
tories Productivity Centre Bombay / Training within Industry Centre Bombay , the 
Assistant Cirief Adviser Factories, Central Labout Institute Bombay , the Assistant 
Regional Mirector, Regional Labour Institute Calcutta / Kanpur / Madras, the Chief 


700 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25 , 1966 /VAISAKHA $ , 1888 


[PART II 


Inspector of Mines, Additional Chief Inspector of Mines, Deputy Chief Inspector of 
Mines, Inspectors of Mines and Administrative Officer of the Once of the Chief 
Inspector of Mines, Regional Inspector of Minęs , Principals , Central Training Insti 
tutes for Instructors and Deputij Director Labour for Gorakhpur Labour Organise 
tion . 

4 . Contracts and other instruments relating to purchase on lands or lease of 
buildings for the use of the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central s) Organisation ; 
by the Chief Labour Commissioner ( Central) , D - puti Chief Labour Commissioner 
(Central) and Regional Labour Commissioners (Central) . 

5 . In the case of the Organisations of Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund in Coal 
Fields throughout India and the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund in the States of 
Bihar , Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan : 
( 1) ( a ) Contracts and other instruments relating to purchase and transfer of 

lands, buildings and other property , the execution and maintenance of 
works of all kinds and any matter other than those herein -before 

specified ; and 

(b ) security bonds for the due performance and completion of works; 
by the Coal Mines Welfare Commissioner , the Welfare Commissioner Mica Mines 
Labout Welfare Fund in the State of Bihar, the Chairman Mica Mines Labour Wel 
fare Fund Advisory Committee for Andhra Pradesh / Rajasthan in the State of 
Andhra Pradesh / Rajasthan , 
( 11) All agreements relating to the construction works after the tenders have 

been approved by a competent authority ; by Executive Engineers , Coat 

Mines Labour Welfare Fund . 
6 . In the case of the Gorakhpur Labour Organisation under the D .G . E . & T .: 
( i) all agreements and contracts for constructions / repairs duly approved by 

the competent authority ; by Deputy Director (Labour ), Gorakhpur ; 
( ii ) all agreements for the supply of blankets , cloth etc . for the Gorakhpur 

Labour Depot; by the Director of Employment Exchanges ( D .G . E . & T .) 
or the Deputy Director (Labour ) Gorakhpur. 


7 . Surety Bonds in respect of Labour Omcers of the Central Pool deputed for 
training in short- term Social Work Course , stamp duty on which has been agreed 
to be borne by the Central Government; by the Head of Office concerned or any 
superior authority . 

B - In case of the Department of Rehabilitationi 


1. Agreements with displaced Government Servants of former Indian States and 
Servants of Local Bodies in connection with Payments under the ad hoc Payment 
scheme, Indo - Pakistan Provisional Payments Scheme or the Government of India 
Interim Relief Scheme; by the Officer- in - Charge, Claims, Central Claims Organisa 
tion , Ministry of Rehabilitation . 


2 . Contracts and other instruinents concerning the Hastinapur Town Develop 
ment Board ; by the Administrator or the Deputy Administrator Hastinapur Town 
Development Board . 

3 . All bonds relating to loans sanctioned to displaced persons before the 31st 
October , 1952, for their rehabilitation in Fulia Township , Fulla , District Nadia 
West Bengal; by the Administrator Fulia Township . 

4 . Transfer deeds connected with the sale or lease of both Government built 
and evacuee properties or allotment or sale or lease of plots developed by the 
Government and allotted or sold or leased to displaced persons or Societies of such 
displaced persons ; by the Regional Settlement Commissioner , an Additional Settle 
ment Commissioner or Managing Officer, the Administrator Fulla Township or the 
Collector Alter . Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Rehabilitation . 

5 . Security bonds relating to payment of compensation under rules 77 ( 3 ) ( b ) and 
78 ( b ) of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules , 1955 ; by 
the Regional Settlement Commissioner , the Additional Regional Settlement Com 
missioner, the Assistant Settlement Commissioners or the Settlement Officers . 


Szc 81)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 9, 1888 701 

= 

= = = 

= = 
6 . Agreements with displaced persons and other residents of India in connection 
with the removal of movable property from Pakistan under the Indo -Pakistan 
Moveable Property Agreement; by the Office of the High Commissioner for India in 
Pakistan , Karachi. 

7 . Agreements with displaced persons and other residents of India , in connection 
with the disbursement of sale proceeds of evacuee movable property rerelved from 
the Government of Pakistan under the Indo - Pakistan Movable Property Agreement; 
by a Deputy Secretary / an Under Secretary to the Government of Indict in the 
Ministry of Rehabilitation , New Delhi. 

8 . Agreements with displaced persons and other residents of India in connection 
with the delivery of evacuce fire -arins rereived from the Government of Pakistan 
under the Indo -Pakistan Moveable Property Agreement; by the District Magistrate 
by whom the fire -arms are deliziered . 

9 . Agreements with displaced persons and other residents of India in connection 
with the delivery of jewellery etc . received from the Government of Pakistan under 
the Indo -Pakistan Movable Property Agreement; by a Deputy Secretary / an Under 
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Rehabilitation . 

10 . Sanads granted under rule 68 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and 
Rehabilitation ) Rules , 1955 ; by the Managing Officers concerned appointed under 
the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 vf 1954 ) 
and in the States of Bombay, Mysore , Madras, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh also ; 
by the Regional Settlement Commissioner, Bombuy . 

11. Instruments transferring immovable property in pursuance of section 20A of 
the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ) in 
the Alwar and Bharatpur districts of Rajasthan ; hy the Collector ( Rehabilitation ) , 
Aluar or the Collector (Rehabilitation ) Bharatpur. 

12 . In the case of the Dandakaranya Project - - 
(1) ( a ) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase, supply and convey 

ance or carriage of materials , storcs , machinery , office iurniture and 

other equipment and repairs thereof ; 
( b ) all contracts and instruments relating to the exceution of works of all 

kinds connected with buildings , bridges , roads, canals , tanks, : eservoirs 
and construction of water -works, sewage works and the ercction of 

machinery ; 
( c ) security bonds for duc performance , completion of works and contracts ; 
by the Chief Engineer , Superintending Engineers , Executive Engineers , Assis 
tant Engineers or by the Heads of Offices ; 
( ii) leases of houses , and or other movable property provided the rent re 

served does not exceed Rs. 5 , 000 / - a month in cach case ; by the Chief 
Administrator, the Financial Adviser, Director of Agriculture of the 

Director ( Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services ) ; 
(ili ) all instruments relating to the sale of lands, buildings and other immov 

able property ; by the Chief Administrator, Financial Adviser , the 
Chief Engineer, the Director of Agriculture or the Secretary to the 

Dandakaranya Development Authority ; 
( iv ) leases , sales or allotments of plots developed by the Dandalaranya 

Development Authority to displaced persons; by the Chief Adminis 

trator , the Director (Resettlement) or the Zonal Administrctors ; 
( v ) bonds and agreements relating to all kinds of loans sanctioned to dis 

placed persons for their rehabilitation in Dandakaranya ; by the Chief 
Administrator , the Director (Resettlement) or the Administrators of 

the Zones; 
( vi ) agreements relating to loan of machinery , tools and plant, and vehicles 

to contractors and others ; by the Chief Engineer, Superintending En 

gineers , or Erecutire Engineers; 
( vii) contracts for catering in hostels and tiffin rooms in public buildings or 

for the prosecution of conveyances belonging to the staff working in 
such public huildings ; by the Chief Engineer, Superintending Engineers , 
Executive Engineers or the Deputy Financial Adviser so far as con 

tracts for catering are concerned ; 
( yli ) agreements with wholesale and retail distributors for the sale of con 

sumer goods; by the Chief Administrator or the Director (Stores Pur 
chases ) ; 


702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25 , 1960 /VAISAKHA 9, 1888 


[PART II 


(ix ) ( a ) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or sureties 

to secure the duo execution of an office or the accounting for money 

or other property received by virtue thereof ; 
( b ) all service agreements with subordinate staff including class IV ser 

vants ; 
( c ) all contracts and Instruments relating to the disposal of waste paper , 

gurplus, obsolete and unserviceable materials , stores and equipment; 
by the Head of the offlce concerned ; 
( x ) instruments relating to the reassignment of Insurance policies which are 

assigned to the President in accordance with the rules regulating the 
Provident Fund from which the policy is financed ; by the Financial 

Adviser ; 
( xi) agreements relating to supply of diets to hospitals etc .; by the Director 

of Health Services or Medical Superintendents / Medical Officer - in 

charge of the Hospital. 
( xil) execution of agreements to be signed by the pupil nurses ; by Director 

of Health Services, Kondagaon ; 
( xill) all contracts instruments and deeds relating to the purchase of land ; 

by the Chief Administrator, Deputy Chief Administrator ; 
13. (1) Agreements with displaced persons in connection with the disposal of 

deposits as defined in the transfer of Evacuee Deposits Act, 1954 ( 13 

of 1954 ) received on transfer from Pakistan under the said Act and ; 
( ) Agreements pertaining to the payments made on ad hoc basis to displaced 

persons having similar deposits in Pakistan ; 
by the Custodian of Deposits. 

14 . Contracts and assurances in respect of camps for migrants from East 
Pakistan directly administered by the Central Government. 
(i) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase, supply and convey 

ance or carriage of materials , stores, machinery , office furniture and 

other equipment and repairs thereof; 
(11) all contracts and Instruments relating to execution of works of all kinds 

connected with buildings , bridges , roads, canals , tanks, reservoirs and 
construction of water -works, sewage works and the erection of ma 

сhinегу ; 
( iil ) security bonds for due performance and completion of works and con 

tracts ; 
( lv ) agreements relating to loan of machinery , tools and plants and vehicles 

to contractors and others; 
( v ) agreements with wholesale and retail distributors for sale of consumer 

goods; 
( vi ) security bonds of cashlers and other Govt. servants or suretles to secure 

the due execution of an office or the accounting for money or other 

property received by virtue thereof; 
( vii) all service agreements with subordinate staff including class IV staff ; 
(viii ) all contracts and instruments relating to the disposal of waste paper , 

surplus, obsolete and unserviceable materials , stores and equipment; 

and 
( ix ) instruments relating to the re -assignment of insurance policies which are 

assigned to the President in accordance with the rules regulating the 

Provident Fund from which the policies are financed ; 
by the Director General of Relief, or the Chief Commandant / the Commandant. 
XV . - IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF LAW : 

1 . All contracts and other Instruments relating to the payment of advance sub 
scriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals etc ; by Under 
Secretary to the Government of India incharge of Administration Department of 
Legal Affairs, Officer on Special Duty Legislative Department, Director (Adminis 
tration and Coordination ) Official Language (Legislative ) Commission , or Assistant 
Government Advocate, Central Agency Section . 

2 . Security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their suretler 
to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for money or other 


SEC 3 (1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


703 


- 


property received by virtue thereof relating to Official Language (Legislative) 
Commission ; by the Director (Administration and Coordination ), Official Language 
(Legislative) Commission . 

3. Contracts and other instruments relating to the Income-tax Appellate Tri 
bunal ; by the President, Income- tax Appellate Tribunal. 


XVI. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF MINES AND METALS : 
1. In the case of the Secretariat of the Department of Mines and Metals ; 
(1) All Service Agreements and Security bonds for the due performance of 

their duties by Government servants ; by a Deputy Secretary to the 

Government of India in the Department of Mines and Metals : 
( i ) All miscellaneous contracts or assurance of property and instruments 

including instruments appointing agents, attorneys and counsels by a 
Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of 

Mines and Metals. 
2 . In the case of the Office of the Coal Controller : 
( 1) All contracts and / or instruments relating to the purchase , supply , con 

veyance or carriage of materials , furniture , stores , machinery and the 
like and for hiring of accommodation for office and residential pur 
poses and agreements relating to telephone connections; by the Coal 
Controller or the Deputy Coal Controller (Production ) or the Deputy 

Coal Controller (Distribution ) ; 
( ii) contracts and / or other instruments relating to advance for purchase of 

motor cars or for the purchase or building of houses ; by the Coal 

Controller ; 
( iii ) security bonds for the due performance of their duties by cashiers and 

other Government servants ; by the Coal Controller : 
( iv ) bonds to be executed by consumers to whom provisional payment of 

subsidy on coal moved by rail cum sea route is granted ; by the Deputy 

Coal Controller Production ; 
( v ) contracts and / or other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers , magazines , periodicals 

etc .; by the Coal Controller ; 
( vi ) security bonds of Cashicrs and other Government servants or their 

sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting 
for money or other property received by virtue thereof; by the r oal 
Controller. 


3 . In the case of the Indian Bureau of Mines ; — 


(i) Security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants whom the 

Director /Deputy Director , Indian Bureau of Mines has the power to 
appoint, or their sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the 
due accounting money or other property received by virtue thereof; 
by the Director / Deputy Director, Indian Bureau of Mines ; 


( ii) all contracts ( including trade contracts with the foreign trade represen 

tatives in India ) and other instruments relating to ; 
(a ) purchase , supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores, ma 

chinery equipment etc ., and repairs thereof and 

(b ) disposal of surplus, obsolete and waste stores; 
by the Director . 

Prior permission of the Government will be obtained to enter into an agreement 
with a foreign trade representatives in India and the copy of the proposed agree 
ment will be got approved by the Government before the agreement Is signed . 
( 11 ) Bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance and 

completion of works; by the Director. 


704 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL , 29, 1966 / VAISAKHA %, 1888 


[PART II 


( iv ) All contracts and Instruments relating to agreements in connection with 

the investigation undertaken on behalf of the State Government, Gov 
ernment Undertakings and private parties; by the Director , Indian 

Bureau of Mines . 
( v ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines , periodicals , 

etc; by the Mineral Economist . 
( vl) Security Bonds of Cashiers and other Government servants or their 

sureties to secure the due excution of an office or the due accounting 
for money or other property received by virtue thereof; by the Deputy 

Director (Administration ). 
(vli) Service Agreements in respect of class Ill and Class IV posts ; by the 

Deputy Director (Administration ) and in respect of Class I and Class 

II posts by the Director , 
( viil) Leases of land , houses and other immovable properties ; by the Deputy 

Director (Administration ). 
4 . In the case of the Geological Survey of India : 
(i) Contracts and / or other instruments relating to advances for the purchage 

of conveyance ; by the Director General, Director of Administration 

and Regional Directors. 
(11) Agreements or leases for hire of buildings required for the Geological 

Survey of India at Head Quarters and at other regional and Circle 
offices in other parts of India ; by the Director General, Director of 

Administration and Regional Directors . 
( ill) All contracts ( including trade contracts with the foreign trade represen 

tatives in India ) and other instruments relating to purchase , supply 
and conveyance or carriage of materials , furniture , stores and machi 
nery and repairs thereof and / or agreements relating to telephone con 
nections , by the Director General, Director of Admninistration , Regional 
Directors , Sr. Administrative Officers , Administrative Officers and 
Assistant Administratire Officers, (subject to the condition that the 
prior approval of the Government is obtained by the Director General, 
Geological Survey of India in regard to the form and contents of the 
said agreement ) . 


( v1) A11obsolete anirector 


( iv ) All Instruments relating to execution of works of all kinds connected with 

buildings and estates in the charges of the Department; by the Direc 

tor General, Director of Administration and Regional Directors. 
( v ) Security bonds of Cashiers , Store -keepers and other Government servants 

whom the Director -General has the power to appoint or their sureties 
to secure the due execution of an omice or the due accounting for 
moncy or other property received by virtue thercot; by the Director 

General, Director of Administration and Regional Directors. 
(vl) All contracts and / or other instruments relating to the disposal of surplus, 

obsolete and waste stores and bonds of auctioneers ; by the Director 

General, Director of Administration and Regional Directors. 
( vii ) Contracts and / or other instruments relating to printing work , serial 

photographs, mapping , preparation of mosaics and prints ; by the 

Director General, Director of Administration and Regional Directors, 
( vil ) To execute contracts relating to the payment of advance subscription for 

the purchase of periodicals , magazines , books etc ., required for the 
Geological Survey of India ; by the Director General, Director of Ad 
ministration and Regional Directors and Superintending Geologist- in 

charge of Publication Division . 
( Lx ) Bonds in connection with grant of Government atipends and fellowships; 

by the Director General, Director of Administration and Regional 

Directors . 
(x ) Agreements relating to running of refreshments and canteens in the 

Department of Geological Survey of India ; by the Director General, 
Director of Administration and Regional Directors. 


Suc. 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1960 / VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


705 


( xi) Contracts relating to purchase, maintenance etc., of geophysical Ad 

other instruments ; by the Director General , Director of Admninistration , 
Regional Directors , Senior Administrative Officers, Administrative 

Officers and Assistant Administrative Officers , 
( xii) Service Agreements; by the Director General, Director of Administration 

and Regional Directors. 
( xiit) Leases of land , houses, and other immovable properties ; by the Director 

General, Director of Administration and Regional Directors . 
(xiv ) Contracts with privateg for undertaking jobs on payment basis ; 

by the Director General, Regional Directors , Director of Administra 

tion and Superintending Geologists -in - charge of circles . 
XVII. IN THE CASE OF THE SECRETARIAT OF THE MINISTRY OF 


(i ) All Service Agreements and Security bonds for the due performance of 

their duties by Government scrvants ; hy at Deputy Secretury to the 

Government of India in the Ministry of Petroleum & Chemicals, 
( ii) All contracts deeds and other instruments under the Petroleum Concer 

sion Rules , 1949 and the Petroleum and Natural Gas Rules , 1959; by 
an Under Secretary to the Goveniment of India , in the Ministry of 

Petroleum and Chemicals . 
XVIII — IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF RALWAYS : 

1. All instruments relating to purchase , hire or supply and conveyance of 
materials, stores, machinery, plant, telephone lines and connections, coal and ml 
agreements for fire fighting and agrecments rclating to re - imbursement of sales 
tax in respect of orders for the purchase of stores for the Indian Railways ; etc .; 
by General Managers , Senior Deputy General Managers , Deputy General Manag 
ers, Assistant General Managers, Assistant Deputy General Managers , Secrcturies 
to General Managers, Engineers- in - Chief . Additional Engineers - in - Chief, Chief 
Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers , Regional Engineers, Chief Operating Superin 
tendents , Chief Commercial Superintendents , Deputy Chief Conmercial Superin 
tendents , Regional Tralic Superintendents, Divisional District Commercial Superin 
tendent, Divisional. Siinerintendents , Superintendents of Works, Erecutive Engi 
neers , Dirisional / District Engineers , Chief Medical Oncers, Personnal Assistant 
to the Chief Medical Oncer, Station Executive Oficers , Kharagpur Colliery 
Superintendents, Chief Electrical Engineers , Deputy Chief Electrical Engineers , 
Chlef Mechanical Engineers , Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers , Regional Mecha 
nical Engineers, Bridge Engineers , Chief Signal & Telecommunication Engincers, 
Tracic Supply Officers, Controller of Storrs , Deputy Controler of 
Stores, Deputy Controller of Stores, District Controller of Stores, Senior Stores 
Oficer , Assistant Controller of Stores, Controllers of Grain Shops, Superiizten lernte 
Catering . Town Engineers, Sleeper Control Officers , Chief Mining Adviser, Works 
Manager Tata Nagar, Chief Administrative Oficer , Integral Coach Factory or 
D . B . K . Projects , Secretary , Rates Tribunal, Chairman , Railua Service Coinmission , 
Deputy Chief Signalling & Telecommunication Engineers, Superintendents , Print 
ing and Stationery, the Principal, Indien Institute of Railuay Signal Engineer 
ing & Telecommunications, Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors , 
Additional Directors , Joint Directors , Deputy Directors , Assistant Directors, Assis 
tant Controller of Stores, Assistant Engineer in the R . D . S . O ., Director, Joint Direc 
tor and Deputy Director in the Railuvay Board . 


2 . All Instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds connected 
with railways, open or under construction ; by General Managers, Senior Deputy 
General Managers , Deputy General Managers , Assistant General Managers , Assis 
tant Deputy General Managers , Secretaries to General Managers, Engineers - in 
Chief, Additional Engineers -in - Chief, Engineer - in - Charge (Construction ) , Chief 
Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers , Regional Engineers, Regional Superintendents , 
Chief Commercial Superintendents, Deputy Chief Commercial Sunerintendents , 
District Divisional Commercial Superintendent, Divisional Superintendents, 
Superintendents of Works, Executive Engineers, Divisional/ District Engineers, Sub . 
Divisional Officers , Colliery Superintendents , Chief Electrical Engineers , Deputy 
Chief Electrical Engineer , Chief Mechanical Engineers , Deputy Chief Mechanical 
Engineers, District Divisional Mechanical Engineers, Regional Mechanical Engi 
neers , Bridge Engineers, Chief Signal & Telecommunication Engineers , Deputy 
Chief Slunal and Telecommunication Engineers, Track Supply Oficers , Controller 
of Stores , Deputy Controller of Stores, District Controller of Stores , Town Engi 
neers , Chief Mining Engineer with the Railway Board , Works Managers Tata 


706 


THE GAZETTE OF INĐIA : APRIL 28, 1966 / VAISAKHA , 1888 


[PART II– 


. 


Nagar, Chief Administrative Officer, Integral Coach Factory or D .B .K . Projects , 
Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors, Additional Directors , Joint 
Directors, Deputy Directors , Assistant Directors, Assistant Controller of Stores and 
Assistant Engineer in the R . D . S . O . 


3 , Security Bonds for the due performance and completion of works and gene 
ral indemnity notes , indemnity bonds and guarantee bonds of all kinds other 
than mentioned above ; by General Managers, Senior Deputy General Managers , 
Deputy General Managers, Secretaries to General Managers , Engineers- in Chief , 
Additional Engineers - in - Chief, Chief Engineers , Deputy Chief Engineers, Regional 
Engineers , Chief Commercial Superintendents, Deputy Chief Commercial Superin 
tendents , Regional Trainc Superintendents , Divisional/ District Commercial Super 
intendents , Divisional Superintendents , Superintendents of Works, Erecutive 
Engineers, Divisional/ District Engineers , Colliery Superintendents , Chief Electri 
cal Engineers , Deputy Chief Electrical Engineers , Chief Mechanical Engineers , 
Regional Mechanical Engineers , District / Divisional Mechanical Engineers , Works 
Managers , Bridge Engineers, Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engineers , 
Track Supply Officers, Controllers of Stores , Deputy Controllers of Stores , Dis 
trict Controllers of Stores or Town Engineers or the Chief Mining Engineer with 
the Railuay Board or the Chief Administrative Officer , Integral Coach Factory , 
or D . B . K . Þrojects , Deputy Chief Signalling and Telecommunication Engineer. 
Senior Accounts Officers, Junior Accounts Officers or Assistant Accounts 
Officers , Director General , Deputy Director General , Directors , Additional Direc 
tors , Joint Directors , Deputy Directors or Assistant Directors or Assistant Con 
troller of Stores or Assistant Engineer in the R . D . S .O . 


4 . Instruments relating to contracts for the transport of passengers, goods and 
coaching traffic by transport agents , for the sale of tickets by tourist or other 
agents authorised by Railways , or for working ferries and ferry steamers in con 
nection with the working of Railways and / or for the amenities of the Railway Staff 
and for supply of labour other than labour required in connection with conscr 
vancy services and for reservation of accommodation in Railway Hotels by re 
cognised tourist travel agents and / or contracts connected with loading and unload 
ing, stacking and dellvery of goods and parcels and of Railway stores and matc 
rial Including loco coal or for other matters necessary for or incidental to Railway 
working ; by General Managers, Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy Genea 
ral Managers , Chief Engineers , Engineers - in - Chief, Deputy Chief Engineers . Re 
gional Engineers, Bridge Engineers, Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engin 
neers , Chief Operating Superintendents , Deputy Chief Operating Superintendents , 
Chief Commercial Superintendents , Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents . 
Regional Traffic Superintendents , Divisional/ District Commercial and. Traffic 
Superintendents , Chief Mechanical Engineers , Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers 
District/ Divisional Mechanical Engineers , Chief Electrical Engineers . Deputy 
Chief Electrical Engineers , Track Supply Officers , Controllers of Stores, Deputy 
Controllers of Stores, District Controllers of Stores, Colliern Superintendents , Divi 
sional Operating Superintendents , Regional/ Divisional Superintendents, Town 
Engineers , the Chief Mining Engineer with the Railway Board , the Chief Adminis 
trative Officer, Integral Coach Factory or D . B .K . Projects , Divisional Engineer or 
the Superintendent catering . 


5 . Instruments connected with the collection of farming of tools at bridges or 
ferties or other means of communication provided by the Railway ; by General 
Managers , Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy General Managers , Assistant 
General Managers, Assistant Deputy General Managers. Secretries to Gneral Mana 
gers , Engineers - in - Chief, Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers, Bridge Engineers, 
Chief Sional and Telecommunication Engineers, Chief Commercial Superintendents , 
Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents , Divisional/ District Commercial Super 
intendents , Regional Traffic Superintendents , Divisional Superintendents , Superin 
tendents of Works, Executive Engineers , Colliery Superintendents, District Engi 
neers or Divisional Engineers of Indian Railway and Chief Adininistrative Officers . 


6 . Lcases or licence of houses, land or other immovable property , vehicle stand 
and coin operated weighing machines in stations provided that the rent or licence 
fees reserved does not exceed Rs. 5 ,000 a month (leases of small branch lines of 
Railways are excluded from this item ) ; by General Managers , Senior Deputy Gene 
ral Managers , Deputy General Managers, Assistant General Managers, Assistant 
Deputy General Managers . Secretaries to General Managers , Engineers - in - Chief 
Chief Engineers , Deputy Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers, Chief Cornmercial 
Superintendents , Regional Traffic Superintendents, Deputy Chief Commercial 
Superintendents, Divisional/District Commercial Superintendents , Chief Operating 
Superintendents, Divisional Superintendents, District Trafic Superintendents , 


Sec . $ (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


707 


Superintendents of Works, Superintendents of Way and Works, Executive Engi 
neers , Divisional Engineers, District Engineers, Colliery Superintendents, Coal 
Manager , Eastern Railway , Chief Mechanical Engineers , Deputy Chief Mechanical 
Engineers or Town Engineers of Indian Railways, the Chief Mining Engineer with 
the Railway Board , the President Colony Committee , Golden Rock , the Station 
Executive Officer, Kharagpur, the Chief Administrative Officer Integral Couch 
Factory , Perambur or D . B . K . Projects , Secretary , Railway Rates Tribunal, Chief 
Personnel Oncer, Deputy Chief Personnel Officer, Superintendent Delhi Area , 
Superintendents Kanpur Area , Director General, Deputy Director General, Direc 
tors , Additional Directors, Joint Directors, Assistant Directors Oscillograph Car 
Officers, Dynamometer Car Officers and Assistant Engineer in the R . D . S .O . 

7. Agreement or leases or licences with outsiders for grazing cattle for the sale 
of grass , trees or other products on Railway land, for fishing in railway tanks, for 
cultivation of water -nuts or for irrigation and instruments relating to the sale of 
grass , trees , or other products on railway land ; by General Managers, Senior 
Deputy General Managers, Deputy General Managers , Assistant General Managers , 
Assistant Deputy General Managers ; Secretaries to General Managers , Engineer - in 
Chief , Chief Engineers , Deputy Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers , District Engi 
neers , Chief Commercial Superintendents, Divisional/ District Commercial Super 
intendents , Regional Traffic Superintendente , Divisional Superintendents , Superin 
tendents of Works, Superintendents of Way and Works, Executive Engineers , 
Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers , Colliery Superintendents , Coal Managers , 
Eastern Railway , Divisional Engineers, Town Engineers of Indian Railways, Chief 
Mining Engineers , with the Railway Board , Station Executive Oncer, Kharagpur , 
Secretary Rates Tribunal , Principal, the Institute of Railway Signal Engineering 
and Telecommunication , Director General, Deputy Director General Directors , 
Additional Directors , Joint Directors , Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors and 
Assistant Engineer in the R . D . S .O . or Chief Administrative Officer . 

8 . Agreements or leases or licences with outsiders for erecting telegraph or tele 
phone posts on Railway land , for laying pipe lines or for building wharves, or for 
crossing Railway land and track by means of aerial rope way or over head trans 
misison lines or underground cables , or for stocking stones , coal, firewood , etc . on 
Railway land or for erecting bulk oil depots etc . in connection with the working 
of traffic carried on Railway ; by General Managers , Senior Deputy General Manag 
ers , Deputy General Managers , Assistant General Managers , Assistant Deputy 
General Managers , Secretaries to General Managers , Engineers - in -Chief, Additional 
Engineers - in - Chief , Chief Engineers , Deputy Chief Engineers , Regional Engineers , 
Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents, Divisional/ District Commercial Super 
intendents, Chief Operating Superintendents, Goods Superintendent, Divisionat 
Traffic Superintendents , Divisional Superintendents , District Traffic Superintend 
ents , Chief Mechanical Engineers , Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers , Superinten 
tendents of Works, Executive Engineers , Colliery Superintendents , Divisional 
Engineers , District Engineers, Town Engineers of Indian Railways , the Chief Admi 
nistrative Officer , Integral Coach Factory , Perambut, or D . B . K . Projects Chief 
Electrical Engineers, Deputy Chief Electrical Engineers, Divisional Electrical Engi 
neers , Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors, Joint Directors , 
Deputy Directors in the R .D . Š. O . 

9 . Contracts connected with the sale of scrap , ashes , coal dust, empty containers 
and stores ; by the General Managers , Senior Deputy General Managers , Deputy 
General Managers, Engineers - in - Chief , Chief Engineers , Deputy Chief Engineers , 
Regional Engineers , Chief Electrical Engineers , Deputy Chief Electrical Engineers , 
Bridge Engineers , Chief Signal and Telecommunications Engineers , Chief Operat 
ing Superintendents , Regional Traffic Superintendents Chief Mechanical Engineers , 
Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers , Regional Mechanical Engineers , Divisionat 
Superintendents , Divisional/ District Engineers, Controllers of Stores, Deputy Con 
trollers of Stores, District Controllers of Stores , Assistant Controller of Stores , or 
Town Engineers of Indian Railways, the Chief Mining Engineer, with the Railway 
Board , the Chief Administrative Oficer , Integral Coach Factory , Perambur, or 
D . B .K . Projects, the Principal, the Institute of Railway Signal Engineering and 
Telecommunication , Superintendent Catering, Divisional Mechanical Engineer, 
Divisional Signal and Telecommunication Engineer , Divisional Electrical Engineer , 
in charge of Workshops and Principal, Advanced Permanent Way Training School, 
Poona and Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors, Joint Directors , 
Deputy Directors , Assistant Directors , Assistant Controller of Stores and Assistant 
Engineer in the R .D .S . O . 

10 . ( a ) Agreements including Running Power Agreements for the interchange 
of traffic with Railways other than Indian Rallways ; and 

( b ) Agreements with Private or guaranteed Rallway Companies , Tram 
way Companies and other carrying Companies ; by General Managers, Divisional 
Superintendents , or Reglonal Engineers of Indian Railroays . 


708 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 1, 02, 


1X AUT II 


11 . Agreements with Covenantcd Inspectors , Engin - Drivers , Foremen and 
other mechanics on the expiry of the terms of their original covenants ; by Gene 
ral Managery, Senior Deputy General Managers , Deputy General Manayers , Chief 
Operating Superintendents, Regional Traffic Superintendents , Chief Engineers , 
Chief Mechanical Engineers , Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers , Deputy Chief 
Engineers, Regional Engineers, Bridge Superintendents Mechanical Workshops, 
Divisional Superintendents Or District / Divisional Electrical Engineers of Indian 
Railways or the Chief Administrative Oficer , Integral Coach Factory , Perambur, 
OT D . B . K . Projects , Chief Personnel Omcer , Deputy Chief Personnel Oficer, Senior 
Personnel Omcer , Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors , Joint 
Directors , Deputy Directors, R . D . S . O . 

12. Agreements with monthly pensionable and non - pensionable subordinate 
employees on Indian Railways defining the terms and conditions of service to be 
entered into on entering the service of Government including agreements for 
app . cntice drivers and other apprentices in the subordinate service ; hy General 
Managers , Senior Deputy General Manuyers, Deputy General Managers, Assistant 
General Managers , Assistant Deputy General Managers , Secretaries to General 
Managers , Engineers - in - Chief, Additional Engineers - in - Chief, Chief Engineers, 
Divisional Superintendents , Superintendents Watch and Ward Department, Chief 
Security Officers, Security Officers , Assistant Security Oncers, Superintendents 
of Works, Executive Engineers , District/ Divisional Signal and Telecommunicatin 
Engineers . Divisional Engineers , Works Managers , Assistant Works Managers , 
Signals , Deputy Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers, Chief Operating Superin 
tendents , Regional Traffic Superintendents, District Traffic Superintendents , 
Assistant Traffic Superintendents , Chief Commerrial Superintendents , Deputy 
Chief Commercial Superintendents , District Commercial Superintendents , Assis 
tant Commercial Superintendents Chief Mechanical Engineers , Deputy Chief 
Mechanical Engineers , Regional Mechanical Engineers, Chief Electrical Enginers , 
Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engineers, District Electrical Engineers , 
Assistant Elertrical Engineers, Printing Superintendents, Assistant Printing Super 
intendents , Controllers of Stores, Deputy Controllers of Stores, District Control 
ler of Stores , Track Supply Oncers , Collierii Superintendents , Coal Manager , 
Adra Divisional Personnel Onicers , Assistant Personnel Officers, Superintendents 
Staff Bridge Engineers , Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Omcers , Deputy 
Chief Accounts Officer , Divisional Accounts Officers , Workshon Accounts Oncers , 
Workshops Personnel Officers , Stores Accounts Officers , or Statistical Oficers , 
Dirisional/ District Personnel. Officers , District Engineers , Assistant Engineers, 
District Mechanical Engineers . Divisional Mechanical Engineers , Assistant Mecha 
nical Engineers , Chief Medical Officers, District / Divisional Medical Officers , Assis 
tant Medical Officers, Divisional Operating Superintendents, Assistant Operating 
Superintendents , Assistant Signal and Telecommunication Engineers, Assistant 
Controllers of Stores, Senior Accounts Officers , Junior Accounts Oficers or Assis 
tant Accounts Officers of Indian Rail2137/ 9 , Marine Superintendents. Mandapam or 
the Principal, Zonal Training School. Bhusar al or the Chief Administratizir Ollicer, 
Integral Croch Factoru . Perambur (Madras ) , or D .R . K , Projects or Superinten 
dents of Staff training Schools or President, Station Committees, or Station Execu 
tire Onicer , Kharagpur or Controlling Officers of Railway Schools , or Choirmon / 
Secretary. Railiai Service Commission nr Princinal , Railway Sta College , Raroda. 
or the Secretary , Roilway Rates Trihinal, Chief Personnel omcer , Deputy Chief 
Personnel Officer, Senior Personnel Officer , Princinals, Institute of Railroy Sianal 
Enginpering and Telecommunications and the Principal, Adrance Permanent Way 
Training School. Principal Training Schools . Chief Cashier, Deputy Chief Engineer, 
Deputri Chief Electrical Engineer, Deputri Financial Advisor , Deputy Chief Signal 
ling and Telecommunication Engineer , Power House Superintendent, Thakurli, 
and Maintenance Engineer , Power House, Thakurll. 
13 . ( a ) All scryice agreements with Gazetted officers ; hy General Managers or 

Chief Administrative Omeers of the Indian Railway / Railway Adminis 

trations. 
(b ) All services agreements with non - gazetted officers; by the Chief Mining 

Engineer with the Railway Board , 
14 . Service agreements of student Engineers and Overseer and apprentices of 
all other types other than special class apprentices ; by Chief Engineers, Deputy 
Chief Engineers of Indian Railways, Chief Mechanical Engineer, Deputy Chief 
Mechanical Engineer , Dirisional Mechanical Engineer or the Chief Administrative 
Officer, Integral Coach Factory , Perambur (Madras ) or D . B . K , Projects, Senior 
Personnel Officer , 

15 . Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 
ceryants whom the officers specified below have powers to appoint ; by General 


Sec . 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


709 


Managers, Senior Deputy General Managers , Deputy General Managers, Assistant 
General Managers , Assistant Deputy General Managers , Secretaries or Assistant 
Secretaries to General Managers , Engineer - in - Chief, Additional Engineer - in - Chiuf, 
Chief Engineers , Regional Engineers , Divisional Superintendents , Superintendent 
Watch and Ward Department , Chief Security Officers , Railway Protection Force , 
Superintendent of Works, Executive Engineers , Divisional/District Engineers, 
Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers, Divisional Mechanical Engineers, Regional 
Mechanical Engineers, Works Managers , Bridge Engineers, Chief Operating Super 
intendents , Regional Trafic Superintendents , Chief Commercial Superintendents , 
Dirisional / District Commercial Suverintendent, Chief Mechanical Engineer , Chief 
Electrical Engineers , Chief Siynal and Telecommunications Engineers, Colliery 
Superintendents, Financial Adrisers and Chief Accounts Officers , or Disputy Finan 
cial Advisers and Chief Accounts Officer , Chittranjan Locomotive Works, Chitta 
Tanjan , Controllers of Stores , Deputy Controllers of Stores or District Controllers 
of Stores of Indian Railway or the Chief Mining Engincer with the Railway Board 
or the Chief Administrative Oncer , Integral Coach Factory , Perambur (Mudras ) 
or D .B .K . Projects , the Principal, the Institute of Railway Siqnal Engineering and 
Telecommunication , the Principal, Adrance Permanent Way Training School, Chief 
Personnel Officers , Senior Personnel Officers, Chief Cashiers , Deputy Chief Com 
mercial Superintendents, Director General, Deputy Director General Directors, 
Joint Directors , Deputy Directors , Assistant Directors in the R . D . $ . O ., Power House 
Superintendent, Thakurli and maintenance Engineers, Power House , Thakurlt. 


10 . Instruments relating to advances for the purchase of motor cars or advances 
from the State Railway Provident Fund for the purpose of purchasing or building 
a house and instruments relating to loans and grants to Co - operative Societies ; by 
General Managers , Senior Deputy General Managers , Deputy General Managers , 
Secretaries to General Managers , Engineers - in - Chief, Chief Engineers , Regional 
Traffic Superintendents, Chief Operating Superintendents , Chief Commercial Super 
intendents , Chief Mechanical Engineers , Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers , Re 
gional Mechanical Engineers , Chief Electrical Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers , 
Regional Engineers , Bridge Engineers , Divisional/District Engineers Controllers of 
Stores, Deputy Controllers of Stores. Divisional Superintendents , Chief Security 
Officers , Railway Protection Force , or Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Oficers 
of Indian Railways or the Chief Mining Engineer with the Railway Board or the 
Chief Administrative Officer , Integral Coach Factory , Perambur (Madras) or 
D . B . K . Projects , Chief " Personnel Oncer and Deputy Chief Personnel Officer , 
Senior Personnel Officer , Deputy Chief Electrical Engineer, the Principal " Staff 
College, Baroda , Secretary Railway Rates Tribunal, The Director Generul , Deputy 
Director General, Directors , Joint Directors, Deputy Directors. Assistant Directors 
and the Establishment office in the R . D . S . O , or the Principals, the Institute of 
Railway Signal Engineering and Telecommunication , and advance Permanent Way 
Training School, Secunderabad . 


17. All instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as se 
curity : by General Managers . Senior Deputy General Managers , Deputy General 
Managers , Assistant General Managers, Assistant Deputy General Managers , Secre 
taries to General Managers , Engineers - in - Chief, Chief Engineers , Bridge Engineers , 
Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engineers , Chief Operating Superintendents, 
Chief Mechanical Engineers, Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers, Chief Electrical 
Engineers , Controller of Stores , Deputy Controller of Stores , Financial Advisers 
and Chief Accounts Officers , Deputy Chief Accounts Officers, Chief Cornmercial 
Superintendents , Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents , Dizisional / Distr ct 
Commercial Superintendents , Regional Trafic Superintendents , Divisional Super 
intendents , Chief Security Officers , Railway Protection Force, Superintendents , 
Watch and Ward Department, Superintendents of Works Executive Engineers , 
Collieru Superintendents , or Divisional/ District Engineers of Indian Railways or 
the Chief Mining Engineer with the Railway Board or the Chief Administrative 
Omer, Integral Coach Factory , Perambur (Madras ) , D .BK . Projects , Deputy Chief 
Personnel Officer, Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer , Deputy Financial 
Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer, Senior Accounts Officer, and Divisional/Work 
shop Accounts Offcers . 


18 . Agreements relating to the supply of electrical power electricity or water 
to railway by agencies other than Railways themselves ; BH General Managers, 
Senior Deputy General Managers . Deputy General Managers, Chief Operating 
Superintendents , Regional Traffic Superintendents , Additional Engineers - in - Chief, 
Chief Engineers , Chlef Mechanical Engineers, Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers , 
Regional Mechanical Engineers , Chief Electrical Engineers or Divisional Superin 
tendents, of Indian Railways or the Chief Administrative Officer , Integral Coach 


710 


THĘ GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 9, 1888 


[PART II 


Factory , Perambut (Madras ), D ,B .K . Projects, Deputy Chief Electrical Engineer, 
Divisional Engineer , Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors , Addi 
tional Directors and Joint Directors in the R . D . S . O . 


19 . Agreements relating to the supply of electricity or water by Railways to 
outsiders; by General Managers , Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy General 
Managers, Additional Engineers - in - Chief, Chief Engineers , Deputy Chief Engineers, 
Regional Engineers, Divisional/ District Engineers, Divisional Superintendents 
Chief Electrical Engineers or Deputy Chief Electrical Engineers of Indian Railways 
or the Chief Administrative Officer, Integral Coach Factory , Perambur (Madras ) , 
D . B . K . Projects , Public Relations and Estate Oficer and District Electrical Engi 
neer. 


20. Agreements for construction of or relating to use of assisted and private 
sidings for collieries mills or other industrial concerns ; by General Managers , 
Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy General Managers, Chief Engineers, 
Deputy Chief Engineers , Regional Engineers , Chief Operating Superintendents , 
Regional Traffic Superintendents , Deputy Chief Operating Superintendents, Chief 
Commercial Superintendents, Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents , Divi 
sional/ District Commercial Superintendents or Divisional Superintendents of 
Indian Railways of the Chief Administrative Officer , Integral Coach Factory , 
Perambur (Madras) , or D . B . K . Projects . 


21. Agreements for the driving of galleries under and for underground support 
to railway property and lincs including assisted sidings or for the provision of 
loading accommodation at existing sidings (railway or assisted ) ; by General 
Managers, Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy General Managers , Chief 
Engineers , Deputy Chief Engineers , Chief Operating Superintendents, Divisional 
Superintendents, Regional Traffic Superintendents , or Deputy Chief Operating 
Superintendents of Indian Railways or the Chief Administrative Officer , integral 
Coach Factory , Peramber (Madras) , or D . B . K , Projects. 


22 . Agreements relating to refreshment rooms, dining cars , book stalls and 
curio stalls, staff canteens refreshment and foodstuft contractors and vendors and 
issue of licences to Porters ; by General Managers , Senior Deputy General Mana . 
gers , Deputy General Managers , Chief Operating Superintendents , Regional 
Traffic Superintendents , Chief Commercial Superintendents , Deputy Chief Com 
mercial Superintendents , Senior Commercial officers , Divisional/District Commer 
cial Superintendents, Divisional Superintendents , District Traffic Superintendents, 
Chief Engineers , Controller of Stores , Town Engineers or Personnel Oncer of 
Indian Railways, the President Colony Committee , Golden Rocle or the Principal, 
Zonal Training School , Bhusaval or Principal, Railway Staff College, Baroda , 
Public Relation Officer and Superintendent Catering the Head of the office and per 
sonnel Officer of the Principals , the Institute of Railway Signal Engineering and 
Telecommunications and the Advance Permanent Way Training School, 


23 . Advertising Printing and Publicity contracts ; by General Managers , Senior 
Deputy General Managers , Deputy General Managers, Chief Commercial Superin 
tendents , Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents , Divisional/ District Com 
mercial Superintendents , and Rates Superintendents , Chief Operating Superinten 
dents , Chief Public Relations Officer, Publicity Officers or Town Engineers of 
Indian Railways or the Chief Administrative Oncer , Integral Coach Factory 
Peramhur (Madras ) or D . B . K . Projects or Chairman , Railuray Service Commis 
sions, Public Relations Officer , Divisional Engineer , Superintendent Catering and 
Divisional Superintendent. 


24 . Agreements for the collection of terminal tax , pilgrim tax , Municipal Tax 
or other and duties for and on behalf of local authorities ; by General Manager , 
Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy General Managers, Chief Commerclat 
Superintendents , Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents , Chief Operating 
Superintendent or Divisional Superintendents of Indian Railways or the Chief 
Administrative Officer , Integral Coach Factory , Perambur (Madras) or D . B . K . 
Projects and Superintendent Catering. 


25 . Contracts for the hiring of films or the provision of studio facilities : by 
Chief Commercial Superintendents . Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents , 
Divisional / District Commercial Superintendents or Publicity Oflcers of Indian 
Railways or Chief Administrative Oficer , Integral Coach Factory , Perambut 
(Madras ) or D , B . K . Projects , Chief Public Relations Officer , Public Relations Off 
cers and Divisional Superintendents. 


SFC . 3 (1)] 


" THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 /VAISAKHA # , 1888 


21 


26 . Agreements relating to the supply of electric power to collieries adjacent 
to Railway Collieries ; by the Chief Miting Engineers with tne Railway Board . 

27 . Major contracts for the purchase of wooden sleepers and timber of all 
descriptions exceeding Rs. 5 lakhs but not exceeding Rs. 10 lakhs in value ; by 
General Managers , the Administrator of the Eastern Group Sleeper Pool, the 
Administrator of the Northern Group Sleeper Pool or the Administrator of the 
Southern Group Sleeper Pool. 

28. Major contracts for the purchase of wooden sleepers and timber of all des 
criptions exceeding Rs. 50,000 but not exceeding Rs. 5 lakhs in yalue; by Chief 
Engineers , or Controlier of Stores or Deputy Controllers of Stores, of Indian Rail 
ways, the President of the Eastern Group Sleeper Pool, the President of the Nor 
thern Group Sleeper Pool, or the President of the Southern Group Sleeper Pool. 

29. Minor contracts for the purchase of wooden sleepers and timber of all des 
criptions not exceeding Rs. 50 ,000 in value; by Sleepers Control Officers of Indian 
Railways, Sleeper Control Officers of the Eastern Group , Sleeper Control Officers 
of the Northern Group or Sleeper Control Officers of the Sourthern Group or 
Track Supply Officers , Controllers of Stores , Deputy Controllers of Stores of 
Indian Railways. 

30 . Execution of deeds of transfer of shares and other securities held by the 
Governor -General before the 26th January 1960 ; and the P esident on or after 
that date on account of investment out of the Revenue Reserye Fund Investmerit 
Account and endorsement of dividend warrants relating to such shares and secu 
rities ; by the Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer, Eastern Railuuy . 

31 . Instruments relating to sale of immovable property (lands and buildings) ; 
by General Managers , Senior Deputy General Managers , Deputy Managers , Chief 
Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers , Engineers - in - Chief, 
Superintendents of Works, Divisional Superintendents , Divisional 01 District En 
gincers of Indian Railways or the Chief Mining Engineer with the Railway Board 
or the Chief Administrative Officer, Integral Couch Factory , Perambur (Madras ) 
or D . B .K . Projects. 

32 . Agreements with auctioneers for conducting sales by public auction of un 
claimed and excess goods and lost property scrap and unserviceable goods ; by 
General Managers , Senior Deputy General Managers , Deputy General Managers , 
Chief Operating Superintendents , Deputy Chief Operating Superintendents , Chief 
Commercial Superintendents , Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents , Regional 
Traffic Superintendents or Town Engineers of Indian Railways or the Chief Ad 
ministrative Officer, Integral Coach Factorii, Perambur (Modras ) or D . A . K , Pro 
jects, the Chief Mechanical Engineers, Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers , 
Deputy Controller of Stores , Divisional Superintendents, Divisional Commercial 
Superintendents . 

93 . Deeds of conveyance relating to the transfer of land owned by State Gov 
ernments for Railway purposes ; by General Managers, Senior Deputy General 
Managers, Deputy General Managers, Chief Engineers , Deputy Chief Engineers , 
Regional Engineers, Engineer - in - Chief, Superintendents of Works, Divisional 
Superintendents , Divisional or District Engineers , or Town Engineers of Indian 
Railways or the Chief Mining Enigneers with the Railway Board or the Chief 
Administrative Officer , Integral Coach Factory , Perambur (Madras ) , or D . B . K , 
Projects . 

34 . Contracts for the supply of labour, carts, fire - wood etc . but excluding 
structural works, in connection with conservancy service , washing hospital linen , 
periodical serving and maintenance of hospital cguipment or diet requirements of 
hospitals ; or supply of drugs , dressings ctc .; by Chief Medical Officer , District Medi 
cal Officers - in - Charge of Districts , District Assistant Medical Officers, Divisional 
Medical Officer OT Workshop Medical Officer , Divisional Superintendents , Deputy 
Chief Mechanical Engineers or Touin Engineers of Indian Railways. 

35 . Contracts not exceeding Rs. 500 for the supply of labour carts , etc . but 
excluding structural works, in connection with conservancy service or washing 
hospital linen ; by Assistant District Medical Officers or Assistant Medical Officers 
in - Charge of Districts of Indian Railways. 

36. Agreements relating to the reservation of beds or provision of Annexes in 
Sanatoria ; by the General Managers or the Chief Medical Oficers of Indian Rail 
ways, 

37. Instruments relating to contracts for sub - stations, track sectioning cabin 
and supervisory control equipment, track structures , overhead equipment, power 


712 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 / VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


[PART II 


and telephone cables and transmission lines; by the General Managers, Additional 
Engineers in Chief, Chief Electrical Engineers , Deputy Chief Electrical Engineurs , 
or Distrin Electrical Engineers of Indian Railways Chief Signalling and Tele 
communication Engineers. 

38 , All deeds and instruments supplemental to deeds and instruments cxecuted . 
by officers of the Railway Board ; by General Managers , Senior Deputy General 
Managers, Deputy General Managers , Engineers - in - Chief, Chief Engineers. Chief 
Mechanical Engineers, Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engineers , or Control 
lers of Stores of Indian Railways, General Manager to Chief Engineers , Ganga 
Bridye Project , General Manager , Chittaranjan Locomotive Works, or t ?ze Chief 
Administrative Oncer, Integral Coach Factory Perambut (Madras ) , Director 
General, Deputy Director General, Directors and Additional Directors in the 
R . D . S .O . 

39 . Licences for the use of safe deposit lockers at railway stations; by the 
Station Superintendents , Station Masters on duty or Chief Parcel Clerks or the 
Luggage and Parcel Supervisors of Indian Railways . 

40 . All agreements and other instruments for granting permission to travel by 
breakvans of goods trains; by Station Masters or Assistant Station Masters on duty . 
41. In the case of the Research Designs and Standards Organisations : 
(i) Agreements and other instruments relating to printing of Indian Rail 

ways Standard Drawings ; and 
( ii ) All service agrcements with non - gazetted officers; 
by the Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors , Additional Directors , 
Joint Directors. 

42 . Agreements relating to removal of sullage through sewer system ; by Gene 
tal Managers , Chief Engineers , Deputy Chief Engineers and Executive Engineers . 

43 . All deeds and instruments other than those specified above ; by the Secretary 
or the Joint Secretary of the Deputy Secretary or the Under Secretary in the 
Railway Board or a Director , Joint Director, Deputy Director or Assistant Director 
in the Railway Board . 
XIX . IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTERS OF SUPPLY AND TECHNICAL. 

DEVELOPMENT : 
In the case of the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals and the Indla 
Supply Mission , Washington : 
1 ( a ) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase , supply and 

conveyance , or carriage of materials, stores , machinery , ctu .; 
(b ) security bonds for due performance and completion of works and / or 

contracts and all other instruments relating to any security for due 

performance and completion of works and / or contracts . 
( c) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security ; and 
( d ) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds connect 

ed with the additions and alterations to buildings and plants and 
with foundations and housing of machinery and electric and sanitary 

installations; 
by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , Department of Supply and 
Technical Development, Director General of Supplies and Disposals , Special Direc 
tor General, Additional Director General, Deputy Director General ( Supplies ), 
Deputy Director General ( Supplies and Disposals ) , Deputy Director General 
( Progress and Supplies ) , Directors, Deputy Directors , Assistant Directors (Grade 
I ) or Assistant Directors (Grade II ) of Supplies and / or Disposals. Officer or 
Special Duty , ( Accounts ) in the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals on 
the Director General, India Supply Mission , Washington or Deputy Directors Gene 
ral, Directors of Purchase or Assistant Directors working under him . 
2 . ( a ) All contracts and instruments relating to disposal of surplus, obsolete 

or waste storcs located in India and belonging to the Defence Services 
Civil Departments of the Government of India , State Governments 
o - quasi-Government institutions such as Port Trusts . Port Com 
inissioners etc ., the Government of the United Kingdom or other 
foreign Governments ; hy & Deputy Secretary to the Government of 


* * 


SEC 3 (1) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 9, 1888 713 

- - - - - 
India in the Department of Supply and Technical Development, 
Director General of Supplies and Disposals , Deputy Directors General 
( Progress and Supplies ) . Deputy Director General ( Şupplies and 
Disposals ) , Directors of Supplies and / or Disposals , Deputy Directors , 
Assistant Directors (Grade 1 ) or Assistant Directors (Grade II ) of 

Disposals . 
( b ) All contracts and instruments relating to disposals or surplus, obsolete 

or waste stores located in the United States of Ame ica aan belong 
ing to the Defence Services . Civil Departments of the Government 
of India , State Governments or quasi -Government institutions such 
aş Port Trusts , Port Commissioners , etc. ; hy the Director General, 
India Supply Mission , Washington or Deputy Directors General 

Directors of Purchase of Assistant Directors working under him . 
c ) All contracts and instruments relating to disposal of surplus, obsolete 

or waste stores, located in the United Kingdom and belonging to the 
Defence Services, Civil Departments of the Government of India , 
State Governments or quasi-Government institutions such as Port 
Trusts, Port Commissione s etc . ; by the Director General, India 
Supply Mission , London , Deputy Directors General, India Supply 
Mission , London , Directors of Purchase , Assistant Directors of Pur 
chase , Controllers and Senior Executize Oficers of the India Supply 

Mission , London . 
( d ) Contracts for , or relating to , the manufacture , sale , purchase or supply 

of goods or for or relating to the affreightment or the carriage of 
roods or insurance , in the India Supply Mission . Lonrion under the 
cortrol of the High Commissioner for India in the United Kingdom 
and subject to such rules and regulations as the said High Commis 
sioner , with the approval of the President, may prescribe; by the 
Director General. Deputy Directors General, Directors of Purchase, 
Assistant Directors of Purchase , Controllers , Senior Erecutive Offi 
cers and Higher Executive Officers , 


. Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by . Government 
servants ; by a Deputy Secretary to the Governintent of Indin in the Department of 
Supply and Technical Development, Director General of Supplies and Disposals , 
Director of Adminstration in the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals , 
or the Director General, India Supply Missioni , Washington , 


4 . Leases of houses, land , or other immovable property ; by a Deputy Secretary 
to the Government of Indin in the Department of Supply and Technical Develop 
ment, the Director General of Supplies and Disposals , Special Director General 
Additional Director General, Deputy Directors General, Deputy Director General 
(Supnlies and Disposals ) , Director of Administration in the Directorate General 
of Sunnles and Disposals , or the Director General, India Supply Mission , 
Washington 


5 . All service Agreement; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India 
in the Department of Sundly and Technical Denelopment . Director General of 
Supplies and Disposals , Director of Administration in the Directorate General of 
Suppiles or the Director General, India Supply Mission Washington . 


6 . Guarantee for the payment of electic, power and water charges to ( 1 ) 
Delhi Elrctric Supply Undertaking, Municipal Corporation of Delhj and New Delhi 
Municinal Committro on hrball of pintand Arers and memhers of the non 
gazetted staff ; h , Donrity Director of Administration in the Directorate General of 
Supplies and Disposals . 

7 . All misrillaneous contrarts and instruments including Instruments appoint 
ing agents , attorneys and counsels ; B2 Drputh Secretary or an indtime Secretary 
to the . Gouarnment of India in the Domartment of Sumpty and Terhnical Dnelop 
ment. the Dirpctor General of Surintios and Disposals , Snorinl. Ditertor General, 
Additional Director General. Deputy Dirortors Gineral of Supplies und Dispneals , 
the Dirertor of Administration or the Drontu Director ( Administration ) in the 
Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals. 

8 . All contracts and other instruments ; bu a Deoutu Serretary or an Under 
Serretary to the Government of India in the Department of Sunploi and Terhnical 
Deployment, Director General Terhnical Deneloomont, or Deputy Director 
(Adıninistration ) in the Directorate General Technical Development. 


714 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 9, 1888 


(PAXT 1 


C . In the case of the Department of Heavy Engineering: --- 
(1 ) Security bonds of Cashiers and other Government servants or their 

surelies to secure the due execution of an office or the due account 

ing for money or other property reccived by virtue thereof ; 
( ii). Leases of houses , land and other immovable property ; 
( ili) Contracts and other instruments relating to the payments of advance 

subscriptions for the pu . chase of news papers , magazines, periodicals , 

etc ., and 
( iv ) Miscellaneous contracts and instruments ; 
by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of Heavy 
Engineering . 

XX , IN THE CASE OF MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND AVIATION : 
A . In the case of the Deptt . of Aylation : 
1. In the case of the Civil Aviation Department; 
( a ) All contracts and instruments relating to the ( i) payment of subsidy / 

subvention and (11) loan of aeroplanes , gliders, winches , equipment 
or other Government property to aircraft operators , Flying Clubs, 
Gliding Clubs and other training Institutions in the field of Civil 

Aviation and Aeronautical Engineering ; and 
( b ) all contracts with private firms relating to the maintenance and upkeep 

of Inspection Equipment; by the Director General, a Deputy Director 

General of the Director of Training and Licensing . 
2 , ( a ) All instruments relating to purchgse , supply and conveyance or carriage 

of materials , stores , machinery , etc ; 
(b ) All instruments relating to the execution and the maintenance of works 

of all kinds connected with aerodromes and air routes including 
buildings , roads, electric and water installations, fences, earthworks, 
the eraction and maintenance of machinery , lighting apparatus and 

other equipment; 
( c) Security bonds for the due performance and completion of works in 

respect of civil aviation ; and 
( d ) leases of houses , buildings , rooms, stalls , counter - space , washing stones , 

cycle sheds or of plots of land for purposes of fuelling facilities or 
construction of bul,dings on civil aviation lands by private parties ; 
licences for cultivation or grass cutting rights on civil aviation lands; 
licences for fishing rights and instruments relating to the sale of sand . 
usufructs , trees or other produce on civil aviation lands ; by the Director 
General, any Deputy Director General, any Director, any Deputy 
Director , any Assistant Director , Estates , any Controller of Aerodromes , 
any Senior Aerodrome Officer or Assistant Aerodrome Officer in the 

Ministry of Civil Aviation . 
( e ) Contracts and other instruments for removal and disposal of night soil 

and garbage from lands and buildings belonging to Government or 
in occupation of Government; by the Head of Department / office 
which is in occupation of the lands , burldings and is responsible for 
the payment of Municipal taxes etc . 


3 . All contracts relating to housing / parking / landing of alrcraft at Government 
Civil Aerodrome: by the Director General, any Deputy Director General, any 
Director, any Deputy Director , any Assistant Director , Estates , any Controller of 
Aerodromes, any Senior Aerodrome Officer , any Aerodrome Oficer , any Assistant 
Aerodrome Officer , or any Officer - in -charge of an Aerodrome in the Ministry of 
Civil Aviation . 


4 . All Instruments relating to the execution and the maintenance of works of 
All kinds connected with Aeronautical Communication Stations including the 
Instalation of masts and aerials ; hy All Controllera of Communication , Controller 
of General Radio Storcs Depot , Controller of Radio Construction and Deuclopment 
Units , Deputy Controller of Radio Construction and Development Units , all Senior 


Sec . 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1966 / VAISAKHA % , 1888 


715 


Technical Oficers , all Senior 
Oficers or all Technical Officers , 


Communication 


Officers, 


all Communication 


5 . Agreements with trainees at the Flying Clubs and the Civil Aviation Train 
ing Centre , Allahabad and trainees under any other scheme of training approved 
by the Government of India ; by the Director General of Civil Aviation of the 
Deputy Directors General of Civil Aviation . 

6 . Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Cashlers and other 
Government servants ; by the Director of Administration , 

7 . Agreements betwee:1 the International Civil Aviation Organisations and the 
Government of India for the provision of technical assistance in matters concern 
ing Civil Aviation ; hy the Representative of India on the Council of the Interna 
tional Civil Aviation Organisation . 

8 . All agreements and instruments relating to the catering establishments and 
stalls ; by the Director Gilerul, ary Deputy Director General, anu Director , any 
Deputy Director and Assistant Director , Estates or any Controller of Aerodromes. 


9. All instruments relating to sale of lands and buildings ; by 
General or a Deputy Director General. 


the Director 


10 . In the case of the Railway Inspectorate : 
( a ) All instruments relating to the purchase or hire , supply or conveyance 

of materials , stores machinery , plant, telephone lines and connections, 
20l etc ; 


(b ) Agreements or leases for the hire of buildings required for the Railway 

Inspectorate for periods not exceeding one year; and 
( C ) Service agreements with subordinate staff including class IV servants ; 

by the Commissioner of Railway Safety or Additional Commissioners 
of Railway Safety . 


11. In the case of India Meteorological Department : 
( 1) All contracts , deeds or other agreements relating to the execution of 

works and repairs to Meteorological buildings including sanitary , 
water supply and electrical installations within the following mone 

tary limits : 
( a ) Rs. 5 ,000 / by the Director General of Observatories ; 

(b ) Rs. 400 / -; by Deputy Director General of Observatories and Directors. 
(11 ) Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 

servants ; by the Director General of Observatories , the Deputy 
Director General of Observatories ( Admn .) , the Deputy Director 
General of Observatories (Instruments and Supplies), New Delhi, the 
Deputy Director General of Observatories (Climatology and Geophy 
sics ), Poona , the Deputy Director General of Obscrvatories (Forecast 
ing ) Poona, the Director, Regional Meteorological Centre , Calcutta the 
Director, Regional Meteorological Centre, Bombay , the Director, Regional 
Meteorological Centre , Madras , the Director, Regional Meteorological 
Centre , New Delhi, the Director, Regional Meteorological Centre , 
Nagpur , the Director Colaba and Alibag Observatories , the Director 
( Instruments ) Poona , the Director , Astrophysical Observatory , Kodai 
kanal, the Director Institute of Tropical Meteorology , Poond , the 
Director, Agricultural Meteorology , Poona and the Onicer -in -charge, 

Central Seismological Observatory , Shillong. 
(lill All contracts or decds relating to the recovery of rent, service charges, 

etc . from the canteens run by the Employees Associations of the 
India Meteorological Department; by the Director General of Obser 
natorics , the Deputy Director General of Observatorics ( Administra 
tion ) Nein Delhi, the Deputy Director General of Obsernatorics ( In 
struments ), New Delhi, the Deputy Director General of Observatories 
(Forecasting ), Poona , the Deputy Director General of Observatories 
(Climatology and Geophysics), Poona the Director , Institute of Tropical 
Meteorology , Poona , the Director Astrophysical Ohservatory , Kodai . 
kanal, the Director, Regional Meteorological Centre, Bombay , the 


716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25, 1966 / VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


PART II 


Director, Regional Meteorological Centre , Calcutta , the Director, 
Regional Meteorological Centre, Madras, the Director, Regional Meteo 
rological Centre , Nagpur, the Director, Regional Meteorological Centre, 
New Delhi, the Director Colaba and Allbag Observatories Bombay , 
and Meteorologistöin - charge, Central Seismological Observatory . 

Shillong . 
( iv ) All contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines , periodicals 
etc; by the Director General of Observatories, the Deputy Director 
General of Observatories (Climatology and Geophysics ), Poona , the 
Deputy Director General of Observatories ( Forecasting ), Poona , the 
Deputy Director General of Observatories ( Instrument & Supply ) , 
New Delhi, the Deputy Director General of Observatories (Admin .), 
New Delhi, the Director, Regional Meteorological Centre, New Delhi, 
the Director , Regional Meteorological Centre , Bombay , the Director , 
Regional Meteorological Centre , Madras, the Director , Regional 
Meteorological Centre , Nagpur, the Director, Regional Meteorological 
Centte , Calcutta , the Director , Institute of Tropical Meteorologu . 
Poona , the Director, Agricultural Meteorology , Poona , the Director 
( Instruments ), Poona , the Director , Colaba and Alibng Ohservatory , 
Colaba , Bombay , the Director , Astrophysical Observatory . Kodaikanal, 

Meteorologist-in - charge , Central Seismological Observatory , Shillong. 
( v ) Bonds in respect of special leave / study leave granted to officers and 

members of staff; by the Director General of Observatories and the 

Deputy Director General of Observatories (Adinn .) , New Delhi, 
( vi) Agreements or leases for the hiring of buildings or acquisition of land , 

required by the India Meteorological Department for official use or 
provision of residential accommodation to its staff ; by the Director 
General of Observatories. 


B . In the case of Deptt. of Transport, Shipping and Tourism , 
1. In the case of Lighthouses and Lightships : 
(1) Contracts for the tending of lighthouses and lightships and for the 

purchase of stores , provisions and equipment to lighthouses , lightships 
and lighthouse tenders , boats and workships, belonging to the De 
partment of Lighthouses and Lightships; by the Director General of 
Lighthouses and Lightships and Director of Lighthouses and Light 

ships , 
(II ) Contracts relating to the execution of works for the Department of 

Lighthouses and Lightships; by the Director General of Lighthouses 

and Lightships and Director of Lighthouses and Lightships . 
(III) Bond from trainees (Lightkeepers /Mechanics ); by the Superintendent, 

Lighthouse Workshops. 


2 . In the case of Shipping : 
(1) ( a ) Charter parties and other documents connected with the operation of 

requisitioned ships; and 
(b ) Charter parties in respect of ships which the Government decide to 

charter and other documents connected with the operation of such 

chartered ships; 
by the Director General of Shipping or the Deputy Director General of Ship 
ping , Bombay or the Chief Controller of Chartering of the Junior Chartering 
Oncer . 
(11) Contracts for the supply of provisions to the T . S . Dufferin Bombay : by 

the Captain Superintendent T . S . Duffrin , Bombay . 
(11 ) Contrarts for the supply of provisions to the TS. Bhadra Calcutta ; by 

the Captain Superintendent, T . S . Bhadra , Calcutta , 
(iv ) Contracts for the supply of provisions to the T . S , Mekhala . Visakha 

patnam ; by the Captain Superintendent T . S . Mekhala , Visakhapat 


nam . 


Bza. 8(i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29 , 1988 /VAISAKHA B, 1888 


717 


- -- - - - 


- - 


( v ) Contracts for the supply of provision to or for catering in the T . S , Nav 

Lakshi , Navlakhi; by the Captain Superintendent, T . S . Nav Lakshi , 

Navlakhi. 
( vi) Contracts for catering in the hostels of the Marine Engineering College , 

Calcutta ; by the Director, Marine Engineering Training , Calcutta , 
( vil ) ( a ) Contracts for catering in the Mercantile Marine Department, Calcutta ; 
(b ) contracts relating to the grant of licences for space at Marine House , 

Calcutta to Photographers for the purposes of supply of photo 

graphs to seamen ; 
by the Principal Officer, Mercantile Marine Department, Calcutta . 
(c ) Contracts relating to the lease deeds in respect of land for the con 

struction of office and residential accommodation for the Mercantilo 
Marine Departments at ports with which they are concerned ; bu 
the Principal Officers, Mercantile Marine Departments , Bombay , 

Calcutta and Madras. 
(viii) Contracts for catering in the hostel of the Nautical and Engineering 

College, Bombay ; by the Principat, Nautical and Engineering College, 


Bombay . 


( ix ) Contracts for catering in the hostel of the Directorate of Marine Engi 

neering Training , Bombay ; by the Deputy Director , Marine Engineet 

ing Training , Bombay . 
( x ) Agreements for the installation of machinery in the workshops of the 

Marine Engineering College, Calcutta ; by the Director, Marine Engi 

neering Training, Calcutta . 
( xi) Security bonds in connection with the employment of officers , cashlers , 

store -keepers and other subordinates who are required to handlo 
cash , stores and valuables in the course of their official work ; by 
the Director Generuo of shipping OT the Senior Deputy Director 
General of Shipping Bombay, in the case of the Directorate General 
of Shipping and by the head of the respective offices in the case of 

its subordinate offices. 
(xll) All instruments relating to advances for the purchase of conveyances 

( other than motor cars) to the non - gazetted staff in the Directorate 
General of Shipping and its subordinate offices; by the Director 
General of Shipping and its subordinate omces; by the Director Gene 
ral of Shipping of the Senior Deputy Director General of Shipping , 
Bombay , in the case of the Directorate General of Shipping and by 

the heads of the respective offices in the case of its subordinate offices . 
(xlil) Agreements with the undertakings from trainees admitted for training 

as Ratings in the T . S . Bhadra , Calcutta / T . S . Mekhala , Visakhapat 
nam / T . S . Naulakshi . Navlakhi; by the Captain Superintendent, T . S . 
Bhadra , Calcutta / T . S . Melchala , Visakhapatnam / T . S . Nau Lakshi, 

Navlakhi . 
(xiv ) Bonds cxecuted by owners of sailing vessels in connection with the grant 

of identity cards to seamen under sail; by the Port Officers & Harbour 
Engineer, Mandvi, the Port Officer, Okha / Bhavnagar / Porbunder / 
Veraral / Navlakhi / Cuddalore / Nagapattinam / Mangalore of the Re 
gional Officer ( Sails ) Jamnagar / Bombay / Tuticorin /Mosulipatam or 
the Principal Port Officer, Kozhikode, the Deputy Port Conservator , 
Cochin and the State Port Ojicer Madras /Kakinada . 


3. In the case of the Department of Tourism (Headquarters ) : 


(1) contracts for the due performance of their duties etc. ; by the shipping 

agents or carriers , coolie contractors , etc.; by the Director General 
Department of Tourism 


( 11) Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by the Govern 

ment servants ( e . g . Cashier etc .) ; by the Under Secretary / Director 
( Administration ) Department of Tourism , 


718 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1968 /VAISAKHA ) , 1888 


[PART 11 


4 . In the case of the Tourist Offices in foreign countries : 
(I) ( a ) Agreements or leases for the purchase or hire of buildings and land 

required for the accommodation of the offices , officers and stall of 
the Tourist offices and agreements for the sale , let out or construc 
tion of Government buildings for these offices , officers and staff in 
foreign country ; 


(b ) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase supply and con 

veyance or carriage of material stores etc. required or owned by 

the Tourist Offices; 
( c ) All contracts and instruments relating to disposal of surplus, obsolete 

and waste stores located in Tourist offices abroad and belonging 

to the Government of India ; 
( d ) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their 

suretles to secure the due execution of an office or the due account 
Ing for money or other property received by virtue thereof in the 

Tourist Offices abroad ; 
( e ) Contracts and other instruments relating to advances granted to Gov 

ernment servants employed in the Tourist Offices abroad for the 

purchase of conveyance ; 
by the Head of the Indian Mission / Post in the foreign country concerned under 
whose overall supervision and control the Tourist Office functions . 
( 11) Surety Bonds relating to undertaking given by temporary Government 

servants to service for a minimum period in overseas station on 
posting abroad ; by the Under Secretary / Director ( Administration ) 

Department of Tourism (Head Quarters ) . 
5 . In the case of the Tourist Onces , Tourist Bungalows / Restaurants etc . In 
India : 

(a ) Contracts and other instruments relating to 
(1) the lease or purchase of land , buildings and movable and Immovable 

property required for use as Tourist omnces and Tourist Bungalows / 
Restaurants and for providing accommodation , refreshment and 

recreational facilities primarily for tourists ; 
( II) sale and lease of such property to caterers , hotellers and State Govern 

ments ; 
(11) management of such property by private parties and State Governments ; 
by the Director -General, Department of Tourism , 
(b ) (1) Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Govern 

ment servants employed in the Tourist Offices ; 
( u ) contracts and other instruments relating to advances for the purchase 

of conveyance , granted to Government servants employed in the 

various Tourist Offices in India , 
by the Director, Government of India Tourist Office , Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta 
and Madras. 

( c) Contracts and other instruments relating to 
(1) purchase , supply of material, stores and other equipments, repairs and 

disposal thereof; and 
( 11) disposal of obsolete and waste equipments , machinery etc ; 
by the Director (Management) Deptt . of Tourism ( Headquarters ) and / or 
Directors /Managers of Tourist Offices in India , 


6 . In the case of the Directorate General Border Roads : 
(1) (A ) All Instruments relating to purchase , supply and conveyance or carriage 

of materials, stores, machinery, and hiring of land and accommodation ; 
(b ) all Instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds connected 

with camp structures and bulldings inrluding demolition and stto 
clearance of buildings, bridges , canals , tanks and reservoirs . 


SKG 3(1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 8 , 1888 


719 


aerodromes and all instruments relating to the construction of water , 

Sewage and electrical works and the erection of machinery : 
( c ) security bonds for the due performance and completion of works; 
( d ) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their 

suretles to secure the due execution of an once or the due accounting 

for money or other property received by virtue thereof ; 
( e ) all service agreements with civillan personnel whom the officers specified 

below have powers to appoint; 
(1) All contracts and instruments relating to disposal of 


(1) ( a ) unserviceable stores and scraps of vehicles, machinery and con 

nected spares when the book value of stores for each category and 
assessed value in the case of scrap does not exceed Rs, 20,000 / ; 


(b ) Other unserviceable stores (other than bridging) by : 
Chief Engincer Rs. 40 , 000 / - 7 For cach category , storce 
Cmdr. Task Force Rs. 5 , 000 / - i priced at book value, 
Cmdr. GREF Centre 

Roorkee & Allahabad Rs. 500 / 
by the Director General Border Roads, Chief Engineers, Commander Engineers , 
Commanders Task Forces. 

( ) Agreements and other instruments relating to the taking bulk supply 

of electric energy and water from an outside source : 
(a ) When the annual payment in each case does not exceed Rg. 10 ,000/ - ; 

by Commanders Engineers or Commanders Task Forces . 
(b ) When the annual payment in each case exceed Rs . 10 ,000 / - but doen 

not exceed Rs. 1 ,00,000 / - ; by Chief Engineers, 
(c ) When the annual payment in each case exceed Rs . 1,00,000 / -; by the 

D . G . B . R . 
7 . In the case of Road Wing : 

All contracts fo - National Highway Projects ; by Consulting Engineer (Road 
Development). 

8 . All contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance sub 
scriptions for the purchase of newspapers , magazines, periodicals etc : by an Under 
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Transport ( Transport Wing ) 
( Incharge Establishment ) , an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Transport (Roads Wing ) ( Incharge Administration ), Chairman , Inter 
State Transport Commission , Director General -Lighthouses and Lightships , the 
Deputy Director General of Shipping ( senior ) , of the Directorute General of Ship 
ping , the Principal Officer Mercantile Marine Department Calcutta / Bombay /Madras, 
the Captain Superintendent of Training Ship Dufferin Bombay, the Director of the 
Directorate of Marine Engineering Training Calcutta / Bombay , the Principal Nauti 
cal and Engineering College Bombay , the Director (Publicity ) of the Department of 
Tourism or the Director of the Government of India Tourist Office , New Delhi/ 
Bombay / Calcutta /Madras, the Chairman Ship Ancillary Industries Committee , 
Bombay. 


XXI. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF WORKS & HOUSING : 
( a ) All services agreements ; by a Deputy Secretary or an Under Secretary 

to the Government of India in the Ministry of Works & Housing . 
(b ) Agreements with Employers relating to the grant of gubsidy and loan for 

the construction of tenements for their Industrial Workers under the 
Subsidised Industrial Housing Scheme; by a Joint Secretary, Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Works & 

Housing . 
( c ) All contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers , magazines, periodicals 


720 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29 , 1968 /VAISAKHA X, 1889 . [PART II 


- 


etc.; by an Under Secretary to the Govt. of India in the Ministry of 

Works & Housing (Incharge Administration ). 
( d ) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase , híre , repair , polish 

Ing , painting, washing, supply , clearance and conveyance or carriage 
of materials including water , electricity , furniture , stores , machinery , 
stall cars, motor cyc. es ; by the Under Secretary , Ministry of Works 

and Housing. 
( e ) Contracts relating to the disposal of waste paper , obsolete and waste 

stores; by the Under Secretary , Ministry of Works and Housing . 
(1) Contracts for supply of labour and the thelas ; by the Under Secretary , 

Ministry of Works and Housing . 
( g ) Şecurity bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 

servants ; by the Under Secretary , Ministry of Works and Housing 
( h ) Undertaking guarantee to the payment of water and electric charges to 

the New Delhi Municipal Committee /Municipal Corporation of Delhi, 
in case of default, with respect to buildings allotted by Government 
on behalf of the Government servants ( including Gazetted Oncers ) 
employed in the Ministry of Works and Housing, who are in occupa 
tion of Government accommodation ; by the Under Secretary , Ministry 
of Works and Housing or a Section Oficer to whom the powers have 

been delegated . 
2 . In the case of the Printing and Stationery Department : 
(a ) (1) Contracts and instruments relating to the purchase and supply of ma 

terials , stores and equipment, 
( 11 ) bonds of employees where it is necessary that they should be executed 

by the obligees for the due performance of their duties; by the Chief 
Controller of Printing and Stationery . Controller of Printing, Assistant 
Controller. Printing ( P & S ) New Delhi, Controllet of Stationery , Cal 
cutta , Diputy Controller, Stationery , Calcutta , Assistant Controller 

(Stationery ) (Purchase ) Calcutta , 
( b ) Bonds of Trade Apprentice s selected for training under the Trade 

Anprentice Scheme or thelr parents or guardians; by the Head of the 

Government Press concerned . 
( c ) Contracts for the execution of printing and binding work ; by the Chief 

Controller of Printing and Stationeris. Controller Of Printing , New 
Delhi, Deputy Controller of Printing Nene Delhi, Assistant Controller , 
Printinn , New Delhi, Controller of S ationery , Calcutta , Assistant 
Controller , Printing ( O . P .) Calcutta , Manager , Government of India 

Form Press , Temple Street, Calcutta . 
( 11) (a ) Contracts relating to the disposal of wastepaper and miscellaneous un 

servicealle stores and purchase of local stores; 
(b ) contracts for clearance , handling, conveyance and delivery of consign 

ments and for supply of labour and transport; 
( c) contracts for auction of waste paper and miscellaneous unserviceable 

stores ; 
( d ) contracts relating to payment of advance subscriptions for the purchase 

of newspapers , magazines , periodicals etc. ; 
by the Chief Controller of Printing and Stationery , Controller of Printing, Con 
troller of Stationery , Deputy Controllers in the office of the Chief Controller of 
Printing and Stationery , and of the Controller of Stationery . Calcutta , Axsistant 
Controller, Stationery , Regional/ Stationery Department, New Delhi, General 
Managers, Managers and Head of Press or Branch concerned . 
(III) Contracts for the repairs, periodical inspection and upkeep of typewriters , 

office equipment and machinery ; by the Chief Controller of Printing 

and Stationery and Controller of Stationery , Calcutta . 
(iv ) All contracts and other instruments relating to the grant of licences of 

land , shops, houses and other immovable property in the Government 
of India Press Colony, Nasik Road ; by the Manager, Government of 
India Press , Nasik Road . 


82€ )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 / VAISAKHIA 8, 1888 


721 


(v ) Contracts for the maintenance and running of cycle stands and timin 

rooms; by the Chief Controller of Prining and Stationery and Deputy 
Controller ( Administration ) in the office of the Chief Controller of 
Printing and Stutionery , Heads of Utices / Brunches 11 Printing and 

Stationery Department. 
( vi) Contracts with advertisement Agents for Government of India Publica 

tions; by the Chief Controller of Printing and Stationery . 
( vil) Contracts relating to the advertisement of Government of India Publica 

tions and coniracts relating to the advertisements appearing in Goy 
ernment of India Publications; by the Manager of Publications, or the 
Assistant Manager of Publications, Government of India Publication 

Branch , Delhi. 
(viii ) ( a ) Contracts relaling to the sale of Government of India Publications; 

by authorised agents in India or abroad . 
(b ) Contracts with authors of books for payment of royalties etc . when 

they are published as Government of India Publications; by the 
Manager of Publications, Government of India Publication Branch , 
Delhi. 


( Lx ) Miscellaneous contracts and agreements; by the Chief Controller, Print 

ing and Stationery . 
3 . In the case of the Directorate of Estates : 


( 1) ( a ) Security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants whom the 

Director of Estates and the Estate Manager , Bombay and Calcutta 
have the power to appoint, or their sureties, to secure the due execu 
tion of an olice or the due accounting for money or other property 
received by virtue thereof; 


( b ) lease / licences of land , houscs and other immovable property provided 

the rent/ fee does not exceed Rs. 5 ,000 / - per month ; and 
( c ) contracts and other instruments in respect of accommodalion provided 

in public buildings (1 ) for catering in hotels and tiffin roonis , (11) for 
the protection of conveyances belonging to the staff working in such 
buildings and ( ii) for co - operative stores ; societies / banks / canteens 
etc , run by employees associations / societies at Delhi /New Delhi 
Faridabad , Simla , Calcutta , Bombay and Nagpur other than those in 
the President s Eslate and the Offices of the Indian Audit and 

Accounts Department; 
by the Director of Estates, the Deputy Director of Estates or the Estate Mana 
ger , Bumbau /Calcutta or the Assistant Estate Manager, Simia / Nugpur / Faridabad 
within their respective jurisdiction . 
(li ) Agreements on Fornis K and L as prescribed in the Requisitioning and 

Acquisition of Immovable Property Rules , 1953 regarding payment of 
compensation in respect of properties requisitioned under the Requl 
sitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 ( 30 of 
1952); by the Director/ Deputy Director of Estate or the Manager , 

Bombay / Calcutta . 
( lil) Contracts deeds and other instruments relating to the Acceptance of 

Security bonds / Indemnity bonds and release of pledge ; by the Deputy 
Director of Estates in - change of Litigation in the Directorate of 
Estates . 


4 . In the case of the Central Public Works Department: 
( i) ( a ) all instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or 

carriage of materials, sto es, machinery etc .; 
( b ) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds , con 

nected with buildings, bridges, roads, canals, tanks, reservoirs , 
docks and harbours and embankments and instruments relating to 
the construction of wate " -works, sewage works, the erection of 

machinery , and the working of coal mines ; 
( c ) bonds of suctioneers and security bonds for the due performance and 

completion of works; and 


722 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1968 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


[PART II - 


- 


( d ) security bonds for the performance of their duties by government ser 

vants whom the officers specifed below have power to appoint: 
by Chief Engineer, Additional Chief Engineers, Superintending Engineers , Dlvi 
sional Officers, Sub - Divisional Officers, Assistant Erecutive Engineers , Assistant 
Engineers , the Military Secretary to the President, Executive Engineer , President s 
Estates Division , 


(11) Leases for grazing cattle on canal banks or road sides; for fishing in 

canals ; for the cu tivation of land under the Irrigation Department; 
lcascs of water for Irrigation and other purposes; leases of water 
power, and instruments relating to the sale of grass, trees or other 
produce on road sides or in plantations; by the Chief Engineers, Sup 
erintending Engineers , Military Secretary to the President or Divi 
sional Officers, Director of Horticulture and Deputy Director of Horti 

culture . 
( 11 ) ( a ) Leases of houses , land or other immovable property , provided that 

the rent reserved shall not exceed Rs. 5 , 000 a month ; 
(b ) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given 

as security ; and 
( c ) agreements for the recovery of fines on account of drift wood or 

other timber passing into a canal; 
by the Chief Engineers , Additional Chief Engineers , Superintending Engineers , 
Military Secretary to the President, Divisional Officer , or the Electrical Engineers 
to the Government of Bombay . In the case of West Bengal, the authority to execute 
deeds and contracts in respect of item (6 ) above is vested in Chief Engineers only . 
( iv ) Instruments connected with the collection or farming of tools at bridges 

or ferries or other means of communication ; by Chief Engineers , 
Additional Chief Engineers, Superintending Engineers, Divisional 
Officer , Collectors of District in Bombay or the Assistant Commis 

sioner, Coorg . 
( y ) Agreements relating to the loan of tools and plant to contractors and 

others; by Divisional Officers of the Superintending Engineers . 
( vl ) Contracts and other instruments in respect of accommodation provided 

in public buildings ( i) for catering in hostels and tiffin rooms ( ii) for 
the protection of conveyances belonging to the staff working in gich 
buildings and ( ii ) for cooperative stores / societies /banks / canteens 
etc., run by the employecs associations / societies other than those in 
the President s Estate and the offices of Tndian Audit and Accounts 
Depa tment at places other than Delhi/New Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta 

and Simla ; by Superintending Engineers . 
(vii) (a ) Contracts for catering in hostels and tiffin rooms in the President s 

Estate or for the protection of conveyances belonging to the staff 

working in the President s Estate ; 
( b ) agreements for renting rationing and other shop in the President s 

Estate , Simla and New Delhi and in the Prime Ministers Estate, 

New Delhi; 
by the Military Secretary to the President, 
( vlii) Agreements for sewer connection with Government sewerage systems; 

by Superintending Engineers . 
( ix ) Instruments relating to the sale of immovable property (lands and 

buildings ) the book value of which does not exceed Rs. 10 ,000 ; by 
Chief Engineers . Additional Chief Engineers or the Military Secre 

tary to the President. 
(1 ) ( a ) Agreements with retail distributors for the distribution of rationed 

articles; 
( 1 ) agreements and contracts relating to decoration works in public 

buildings ; 
by Chief Engineers or Additional Chief Engineers. 
( xl) Bonds relating to lump sum deposits made by contractors for securing 

exemption from payment of earnest money and security deposit in 


Sma, ( 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


723 


individual cases; by Chief Engineer, Central Public Works Department. 
(xii ) Bonds relating to the grant of loan to contractors for execution of work 

in individual cases ; by the Chief Engineer /Additional Chief Engineer, 
Central Public Works Department. 


( xii ) Contracts and instruments relating to the Bombay Military Lands 

Scheme, by the Superintending Engineer , Central Public Works De 
partment, Central Circle , Bombay . 


5 . In the case of the National Buildings Organisation . 


All contracts and assurances of property relating to Naticnal Buildingo , Orga 
nisation ; by the Director, National Buildings Organisation , New Delhi. 
6 . In the case of the Department of Explosives; 
(1 ) Security bonds (in Fidelity Guarantee Bond ) for due performance of 

their duties by clerks handing cash and valuable stores in the various 

offices under the Department; 
( li) contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscription for the purchase of newspapers, magazines , periodicals 

etc.; 
by the Head of Offices. 

( W ) Service agreements ; 
( lv ) contracts and other instruments relating to lease of land houses and 

other immovable properties ; for office and office - cum - residential 

accommodation etc ; 
by the Chief Inspector of Explosives and Inspectors of Explosives , Agra , Bombay , 
Calcutta , Gwalior and Madras. 
7 . In the case of Land and Development Omce : 
( 1) All contracts and assurances of property relating to matters falling 

within the jurisdiction of Land and Development Officer ; 


( 11 ) all contracts , deeds or other instruments relating to or for the purpose 

of enforcement of the terms and conditions of the sale / lease deeds of 

the Government Built Property in Delhi/New Delhi; 
( iil) auctioneering agreements, bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for 

the due performance of work by the auctioneers ; 
by the Land and Development Officer , Deputy Land Development Officer and 
Assistant Settlement Commissioner. 


XXII . IN THE CASE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ACOMIC ENERGY : 
A . ( 1 ) All contracts and assurances of property relating to the business of the 

Department of Atomic Encrry ; by the Secretary , Joint Secretary OT 
a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of 

Atomic Energy , or Secretary , Atomic Energy Commission , 
( 1 ) Contracts relating to printing and binding work ; by the Publication 

Officer , Department of Atomic Energy . 


B . In the case of the Atomic Energy Establishment Trombay . 
( i) All contracts and / or instruments relating try work of all kinds; by 
Scientific Officer / Engineer Grades , H , 

GF,E , SG ,SF , SE,SD2 , or SDi., 
Chief Engineer , Superintending Engineer or Executive Enginect , 


( ii) Contracts for the purchase , supply and conveyance or carriage of 

equipment and stores machinery etc ; by Scientific Officer / Engineet 
Grade H ,G , F , E , D ,SG . SF , SE ,SD2, SD1, Chief Enyineer , Superintending 
Engineer , or Executive Engineer, the Controller, the Head , Purchase 
and Stores Division , the Senior Purchase Oficer , the Purchase Ori 
cer , the Assistant Purchase Officer , or the Stores Officet . 


724 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966 / VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


[PART II 


LUUL 


( iii ) Contracts relating to servicing of equipment, instruments or machinery ; 

by the Head , Purchase and Stores Division , the Senior Purchase Oft 

cer , the Purchase Oficer or the Assistant Purchase Officer , 
( iv ) Contracts and / or instruments relating to disposal of surplus, ohyo ete 

or unscrviceable stores and equipment scrap etc.; by the Controller, 
the Head , Purchase and Stores Division , ihe Stores Officer, or the 

Assistant Stores Officer. 
( v ) Security bonds for the performance of their duties by Government 

servants ; by the Controller, the Head , Personnel Division , the Esta 

blishment Officer of the Deputy Establishment Oficcr . 
(vi) All contracts and / or instruments and assurances of property ; by the 

Controller, or the Head , Personnel Division . 
( vil) Service Agreements / Service bonds for the fulộlment by Government 

servants of their obligation to serve Government jor a specihed period ; 
by the Controller , the Head , Personnel Division , tire Establishinent 
Oficer of the Deputy Establishment Oncer. 


C . In the case of the Atomic Minerals Division . 
(1) Security bonds for the performance of their duties by Governinent 

servants ; 
( 11 ) contracts for purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of equip 

ment and sto . es; and 
( ii ) all the contracts and assurances of property including contracts relat 

ing to the procurement of Atomic and other Minerals ; 
by the Director, Atomic Minerals Divisłon . 
D . In the case of the Jaduguda Mines Project . 
( i) Security bonds for the performance of their duties by Government 

servants ; 
(11) contracts relating to works of all kinds ; 
( iii ) contracts relating to purchase , supply and conveyance or carriage of 

equipment and stores, machinery, etc .; 
by the General Manager , Jaduguda Mines Project. 


E . In the case of the Tarapur Atomic Power Project. 


(1) All contracts and / or Instruments relating to works of all kinds ; 
( ii) agreement relating to the supply of elcctrical power to the Project 

by agencies other than this Project; 
( iii) agreements relating to supply of water or electricity by the Project 

to outsiders, 
( iv ) agreement for catering contracts in hostels and cantecns; 
( v ) agreements regarding grant of licence to outsiders of Project s land for 

erecting petrol and diesel oil pumps substatiuns for supply of elect11 
city , etc ., and agreements for licence to outsiders for crossing Pro 
ject s land by means of overhead transmission lines or under -rround 

cables etc .; 
( vi) agreements with outsiders for grazing cattle , for cultivation of land , 

and instruments relating to the sale of grass , trees or other products 

on Project s land ; 
( vii ) contracts for purchase, supply , conveyance or carriage of equipment 

and stores ; and 
( viii ) service agreements and security bonds of cashiers and other Govern . 

ment servants or their sureties for the performance of their duties or 
the due accounting of the money or other property received by virtue 
thereot; 


Src , 801 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 / VAISAKHA 3 , 1888 


725 


(ix ) security bonds for the due performance and completion of works ; 
by the Project Administrator , and / or the Chief Civil Engineer , Superintending 
Engineer, or Scientific Officer / Engineer Grades , F . E . D . C . SD2, SDI, 
F . In the case of the Rajasthan Atomic Power Project . 

( i) All Contracts and / or instruments relating to works of all kinds ; 
(11 ) contracts , for the purchase , supply ; conveyance or carriage of equip 

ment and stores; 
( iii ) contracts and / or instruments relating to disposal of surplus stores and 

equipment, scrap , etc .; 
by the Project Administrator, Chief Project Engineer, or Additional Chief 
Engineer . 

(iv ) Ag" cements for hire of buildings; 
( y ) Service agreements and security bonds of cashiers and other Govern 

ment servants or their su cties for the performance of their duties or 
the due accounting of the money or other property received by virtue 

thereof; 
(vi) Security bonds for the due performance and completion of works ; 
by the Project Administrator , Chief Project Engineer . Additional Chirf Enmeer , 
Administrative Officer OT Scientific Officer / Engineer Grades, SF , SE , SD2 , SDI in 
the Project . 
(vii) ( a ) Contracts for the purchase , supply and conveyance or carriage of 

equipment, stores and machinery ; 
( b ) contracts relating to servicing of equipment, instruments or machine 

ry , fabrication and assembly of all equipment, components and 
materials including those required for the nuclear portion of the 
plant; 


by the Project s Liaison Officer, 
G . In the case of the Atomic Energy Establishment Trombay Housing Project. 
( i) All contracts and other instruments relating to works of all kinds; bu 

Scientific Officer / Engineer Grades G , SF , E , SE , SD2 or SDI, Project 

Engineer, Superintending Engineer Of Executive Engineer. 
(11) Contracts for the purchase , supply and conveyance or carriage of equlp 

ment and stores , machinery and the like ; by Srientific Officer / Engi 
neer Grades SF , E , SE , SD2, SDi, Project Engineer, Superintending 

Engineer , or Executive Engineer , 
( 11 ) Contracts relating to servicing of equipment, instruments or machinery ; 

by the Scientific Officer / Engineer-Grades E , SE , Superintending Engt 

meer, Executive Engineer , Assistant Personnel Officer , 
( iv ) Contracts and other instruments relating to disposal of surplus, obsolete 

or unserviceable stores, equipment, scrap and the like : ho the Scienti 
fic Officer / Engineer -Grades E , SE , Superintending Engineer, Execu 

tive Engineer, Assistant Personnel Officer. 
( v ) Security bonds for the performance of their duties hy Governinent 

servants ; by the Scientific Onirer / Enginer Grades SD2 or sDi Pro 

ject Elgineer , Superintending Engineer, Executive Engineer . 
( vl) All contracts and assurances of property ; by the Project Engineer , Sup 

erintending Engineer, 
( vii ) Service Agreements /Service honds for the fulfilment by Government 

servants of their oblication to serve Government fo a specified period ; 
by the Project Engineer , Superintending Engineer. 


H . In the case of the Experimental Satellite Cominunications Earth Station , 
Ahniedabad : — 

( 1) All contracts and other instruments relating to works of all kinds ; 
( ii) contracts, for the purchase , supply conveyance or carriage of equip 

ment and stores ; 


726 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25, 1966 / VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


[PART II 


( iii ) contracts and other instruments relatnig to disposal of surplus stores 

and equipment, scrap , etc.; 
( iv ) agreements for hire of buildings ; 
( v ) service agreements and security bonds of cashiers and other Govern 

ment servants or their sureties for the performance of their duties or 
the due accounting of the money of other property received by virtue 

thereof ; 
( vi) security bonds for the due performance and completion of works ; 
by the Director. 


XXIII. IN THE CASE OF DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS . 


1. Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government ser 
vants ; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of 
Communications. 


2. In the case of Government of India Overseas Communications Service : 
( a ) All contracts and other instruments relating to the business of and all 

agreements or leases for thc hire of buildings and lands for the Over 
seas Communications Service ; by the Director General of Overseas 
Communications Service , 


(b ) (i) Contracts /instruments relating to leasing of channels etc .; 


( ii ) surety bonds relating to training of Traffic Staff etc . ; 
by the Deputy Director General ( Traffic ) . 
(c ) (i) Contracts and other instruments relating to leases for the hire of 

buildings / lands / telephone connection etc .; 

( ll ) surety bonds relating to training of Engineering Staff; 
by the Chief Engineer. 
( d ) Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Govern 

ment seryants ; by Heads of Offices ( O . C . S . Centres) . 
( e ) Execution of contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of 

advance subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers , magazines , 
periodicals etc .; by the Director of Administration , O . C . S . and the 
Heads of Oflces ( 0 . C . S . Centres ) .. . . . . . 


8 . In the case or Monitoring Organisation : 


( 1) All instruments relating to the purchase or hire, supply or conveyanco 

of materials , stores , machinery , plant, telephone lines and connections 

and water and electric supply ; 
(ii) Agreements or leases for the hire of the buildings and lands required 

for the Monitoring Organisation ; 
( ili) service agreements with subordinate staff ; 
(iv ) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their sure 

ties to secure due execution of an office; 
by the Wireless Adviser to the Government of India in the Department of Com 
munications. 
( v ) Se - vice agreements with the Class IV staff; hy the lead of Office of the 

Monitoring Organisation ; 
(v1) Agrecments in regard to cultivation or grass cutting rights or sale of 

trees at the Monitoring Stations; by the Wireless Arniser to the Gov 
ernment of India in the Department of Communications or Deputy 
Wireless Adviser to the Gonernnient of India in ihe Departurerit of 
Com .nunications or Assistant Wireless Adviser to the Governrerit of 
India in the Department of Communications or Engineer - in - Charge or 
Engineer in the Monitoring Organisation , 


SAC , 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25, 1966 / VAISAKHA 3 , 1888 


727 


4 . In the case of the Posts and Telegraphs Department: 
( 1) Contracts and other instruments relating to the business of Posts and 

Telegraphs Department; 
( 11 ) contracts and other instruments relating to telephone connections; 
(iii) policies relating to the Post Office Insurance Fund and Baroda State 

Insurance Fund ; 
( iv ) ( a ) acceptance of indemnity bonds and loan bonds in connection with 

payment ( including sanction of loan ) relating to Postal Life Insur 

ance policies ; 
( b ) release and re -assignment of the Postal Life Insurance Policies to 

ingurants ; 
( v ) security bonds of cashiers and other Goverment servants or their sure 

ties to secure the due exccution of an office or the due accounting for 

money or other property received by virtue thereof; 
( vi) instruments relating to the acceptance of the transfer from or assign 

ment by , one party to another, of deposits relating to the Own Your 

Exchange Scheme and benefits thereof; 
( vii) agreements and other instruments for the conveyance of forms, leases 

for hire of buildings , and lands for Posts and Telegraphs Forms Stores; 
( viil ) contracts and other instruments in respect of accommodation in build 

ings belonging to the P . & T . Department for ( 1 ) catering in hostels 
and tiffin rooms ( ii ) the protection of conveyances belonging to the 
staff working in such buildings and ( iii) co - operative stores / societies / 

banks / canteens run by the employees associations / societies ; 
by a gazetted officer of the Indian Posts & Telegraphs Department, subject to such 
conditions as may be laid down by the Posts & Telegraphs Board . 

XXIV . IN THE CASE OF DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL WELFARE : 
1 . In the case of the Commissioner for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes : 
Leases of buildings and othe . immovable property for the use of the Offices 

under the control of the Commissioner for Scheduled Castes and Sche 
duled Tribes where the buildings or other immovable property are to 
be utilised entirely as office or pərt y as off|ce and partly as residence 
or for residential o " other purposes and where the rent payabie under 
such leases does not exceed the amounts that the Commissioner is 
competent to sanction as a Head of the Department under the Dele 
gation of Financial Powers Rules , 1958 ; as amended from time to time; 

by the Commissioner for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 
2. In the case of Training Centre for the Adult Blind, Dehra Dun : 
Contracts for the supply of ration articles, dairy products, vegetables etc .; 

by the Superintendent , Training Centre for the Adult Blind , Prest 

dent s Bodyguard Lines, Rajpur Road , Dehra Dun , 
3 . Contracts and other instruments relating to the office of All India Handicrafts 
Board and lease deeds of land given to the Board ; by the Chief Executive Oficer , 
All India Handicrafts Board , 

4 . Bonds executed by the grantec institutions, contracts for loans to and deeds 
of mortgages of immovable properties executed by the institutions / organisations 
in favour of the President; 
by the Secretary , Central Social Welfare Board , New Delhi. 

XXV . IN THE CASE OF PLANNING COMMISSION : 
1 . ( i) All service agreements and security bonds for due performance of their 

duties by Government servints ; by Joint Secretary to tze Gorrnment 

of India in the Planning Cominission , 
( ii ) Bonr s and guarantees submitted by Government seryonts in connection 

with their proceeding abroad on study leave / training : and Analisation 
of their accounts pending the issue of no demand certificates in their 
favour by the authority conce ncd ; by an Under Secretary to the Gov 
erment of India in the Planning Commission . 


728 


THL GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966 / VAISAKHA ), 1888 


[PART 11 


( lil) Contracts and instruments relating to payment of advance subscriptions 

for the purchase of newspapers, magazines and periodicals etc. ; by an 
Under Secretary to the Government of India declared as Head of 
Opice . 


( iv ) Contracts and other instruments relating to sale of all kinds of waste 

paper and sweeping and obsolete material; 


( v ) contracts and other instruments in espert of accommodation provided 

in public buildings under , occupation of Panning Commission ( i ) for 
canteen and tiffin rooms; ( ii ) for the nrotection of conveyances be 
longing to the staff working in such buildings ; ( iii) for Fruit stalls etc .; 
and ( iv ) for coope ative societies / stores run by employees associa 

tions / societies ; and 
(vi) security bonds ( in Fidelity Guarantee Bond ) for the performance of 

their duties by the Assistants /Clerks /Cashiers handling cash ; 
by an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Planning Commission . 

2. Contracts and assurances of property relating to the Programme Evaluation 
Organisation : - - 
( 1) All service agreements and security bonds for due performance of their 

duties by Government servants : hol a Joint Secretary to the Govern 

ment of India in the Planning Commission . 
( ii ) Leases of houses, office accommodation , land or other immovable pro 

perty , 
( ill) security bonds ( in Fidelity Guarantee Bond ) for due performance of 

their duties by Assistants , Clerks and Cashiers handling cash ; and 
( iv ) Job Contracts le, contracts for technical processing and mechanical 

tabulation of data elc . ; 
by an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Programme Evaluation 
Organisation . 


3 . Security bonds ( in Fidelity Guarantee Bond ) for due performance of their 
duties by the Assistants , Clerks and Cashiers handling cash in the Committee on 
Plan Protects ; bu an Under Secretary , to the Government of India in the Com 
mittee on Plan Projects . 


4 . Miscellaneous contracts and instruments relating to the planning Commis 
gion and the Propramme Evaluation Organisation ; hula Deputu Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Planning Commission and those relating to Committee 
on Plan Projects ; by an Under Secretary to the Govt. of India in the Cornmittee on 
Plan Projects . 


XXVI. IN THE CASE OF CABINET SECRETARIAT (DEPARTMENT OF 
STATISTICS ) ; 
A . In the case of Central Statistical Organisation at New Delhi: 

All service agreements ; hy the Competent appointing authority . 
B . In the case of Central Statistical Organisation ( Industrial Statistics Wing ) at 
Calcutta : 
( i ) All contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspaners , magazines , periodicals 
etc. ; by the Administrative Officer ( subject to the authorisation of the 

Joint Director ) ; 
( 11) Order forms for the supp y on hire of equipments from I.C . T . / I. B .M ., 

by the Joint Director . 


C . In the case of Directorate of National Sample Survey, New Delhi and its 
Regional Offices : 
( 1) Surety bonds of Cashier and other Government servants and / or their 

sureties to secure the duc pxecution of an office or due accounting for 
moncy or other property received by virtue thereof; by the Assistant 


DEC. 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


729 


Directors/ Statisticians/ Superintendents in the Regional Offices /Head 

quarters office of the Directorate. 
( 11) Service agreements ; by the Assistant Director / Statisticians/ Superinten 

dents ; 
( iii ) Leases of land , houses and other immovable properties ; by the Heads 

of offices in the Regional Offices viz . Assistant Directors / Statisticians 
Regional Officers / Assistant Statisticians / Superintendents, as the case 

may be. 
XXVII. IN THE CASE OF THE PRIME MINISTER S SECRETARIAT: 
( i ) All contracts and instruments relating to supply of rations, clothing and 

similar material for the needs of the various organisations and Train 

ing Centres under the Director General ( Security ) ; 
( ii ) All contracts and instruments relating to the purchase / lease of land ; by 

the Deputy Director, SSB Directorate, Divisional Organisers , SSB , 
D . I.G . S of SSB Training Centres, Deputy Director Frontier Administra 
tive Officers Training Centre, Deputy Director ( Admn .) , ARC Direc 

torate , and Deputy Director ( Admn.) , S , F .F . 
XXVIII . IN THE CASE OF THE PARLIAMENT SECRETARIAT : 
A , In the case of the Secretariat of the House of the People: 
1 . ( 1) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase , supply and convey 

ance or carriage of stationery , furniture, stores and machinery ; 
(ii ) security bonds for the due performance of their duties by the officers 

of the Secretariat ; and 
( iii ) all miscellaneous contracts and instruments ; 
by the Under Secretary / Deputy Secretary in the Secretariat of the House of the 
People . 
2 . ( i) Instruments relating to the re - assignment of insurance policies which are 

assigned to the Governor General before the 26th January , 1950 and 
the President on or after that date in accordance with the rules regu 
lating the Provident Fund from which the policy is financed ; by the 

Accounts Officer of the Fund as defined in the rules of the Fund . 
(ii ) Instruments relating to the assignment of insurance policies in favour 

of President in accordance with rules regulating the Provident Fund 
from which the policy is financed ; by the Accounts Officer of the Fund 

as defined in the rules of the Fund . 
B . In the case of Secretariat of the Council of States: 
1 . (i ) Instruments relating to the re - assignment of insurance policies which are 

assigned to the Governor General before the 26th January , 1950 and 
the President on or after that date in accordance with the rules re 
gulating the Provident Fund from which the policy is financed ; by 
the Accounts Officer of the Fund as defined in the rules of the Fund , 


( ii ) Instruments relating to the assignment of insurance policies in favour 

of President in accordance with rules regulating the Provident Fund 
from which the policy is financed ; by the Accounts Officer of the Fund 
as defined in the rules of the Fund . 


XXIX . IN THE CASE OF THE INDIAN AUDIT AND ACCOUNTS DEPART 
MENT: 

1 . Security bonds or mortgage deeds given as security in connection with the 
employment of Treasurers , Cashiers or clerks charged with the disbursement of 
money or the custody and handling of securities ; by the Head of the Office . 


2 . (1 ) Instruments relating to the reassignment of Insurance policies which are 

assigned to the Governor -Gencral before the 26th January , 1950 and 
the President on oi after that date in accordance with the rules regu 
lating the Provident Fund from which the policy is financed ; by the 
Accounts Officer of the Find , as deined in the rules of the Fund , 


720 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 5 , 1888 


PART II 


M 


( ii ) Instruments relating to the assignment of insurance policies in favour 

of President of India in accordance with rules regulating the Provi 
dent Fund from which the policy is financed ; by the Accounts Officer 

of the Fund, as defined in the rules of the Fund , 
3 . ( a ) All contracts and other instruments relating to the purchase , hire or 

conveyance of materials , office furniture and other equipment. 
(b ) leases or agreements for the hire of buildings for office or residential 

purposes of the Department; and 
( c ) All instruments relating to disposal of waste paper ; 
by the Head of the Office . 

4 , Contracts , agreements and other instruments relating to the advances grant 
ed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India to Government servants in 
the Indian Audit and Accounts Department for the purchase of motor cars, motor 
cycles or houses or for building houses ; by the Comptroller and Auditor General 
of India of the Deputy Comptroller & Auditor General of India , 


Provided that in the case of advances granted by the Government to the 
Director of Audit, Indian Accounts , London and the Director of Audit, Indlan 
Accounts, Washington , such contracts , agreements and other instruments may also 
be executed ; by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India of the Deputy 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India . 

3 . Contracts , agreements and other instruments relating to advances granted to 
Government servants for the purchase of motor cars , motor cycles , cycles or houges 
or for building houses or for medical attendance and treatment or for festival or 
for floods etc., or advances of pay and travelling allowance on transfer and tour 
or advances of pay to persons proceeding on deputation abroad, or advances in 
respect of the Travel concession Scheme during regular leave; by the authorities 
granting the advances . 

Provided that in the case of the officers and staff under the Director of Audit 
Indian Accounts , United Kingdom or of officers and staft under the Director of 
Audit , Indian Accounts Washington , such contracts and Instruments relating to 
the grant of advances for the purchase of motor cars and motor cycles , may also 
be executed ; by the Director of Audit , Indian Acconints , London and the Director 
of Audit , Indian Accounts , Washington , respectively . 

6 . Contracts and other instruments in respect of accommodation provided in 
public or rented buildings (1) for the protection of conveyances belonging to the 
staff working in such buildings and ( ii ) for cooperative stores / societies / banks 
canteens etc., run by employees associations / Societies ; by the authority adminis 
tratively controlling the employees for whom the stores etc . cater. 

7 , All deeds and instruments relating to any matters other than those specified 
in items 1 to 6 ; by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India , the Deputy Comp 
troller and Auditor General of India , the Additional Deputy Comptroller and 
Auditor General of India , Accountants General, Chief Auditors of Railways, Direc 
TOT of Commercial Audit, and Director of Audit, Defence Services. 

XXX . IN THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 
CHIEF COMMISSIONER . ANDAMAN AND NICOBAR ISLANDS , AS REGARDS 
CONTRACTS , NOT HEREINBEFORE SPECIFIED : 
1. (1 ) All deeds , contracts and other instruments in the matters connected 

with the working and business of the Public Works Department 
which are beyond the powers of the Principal Engineer ; by the Chief 

Secretary with the prior approval of the Chief Commissioner . 
( 1 ) All deeds, contracts and other instruments relating to the Andaman 

Public Works Department; by the Principal Engineer , Superintending 
Engineer, Divisional Officers, Sub - Divisional Officers . 


2 . All deeds, contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the 

grant of land and general administration ; by the Chief Secretary with 

the prior approval of the Chief Commissioner. 
3 . ( 1) All deeds , contracts and other instruments relating to the Forest De 

partment over Rupees Five lakhs; by the Chief Conservator of 
Forests with the prior approval of the Chief Cominissioner . 


SEC . 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1966 /VAISAKHA % , 1888 


731 


(11) All deeds, contracts and other instruments relating to the Forest De 

partment upto the limit of Rs. 5 lakhs ; by the Conservator of Forests 

with the prior approval of the Chief Conservator of Forests. 
(li ) All deeds, contracts and other instruments relating to the Forest De 

partment upto a limit of Rs. 1 lakh ; bij the Deputy Conservator of 

Forests with the prior approval of the Chief Conservator of Forests . 
( iv ) All deeds , contracts and other instruments relating to the Forest De 

partment upto a limit of Rs. 50 , 000 / - ; by the Assistant Conservator 
of Forests (Depot Division ) , Andaman Government Tiiber Depot, 
Madras with the prior approval of the Chief Conservator of Foreste . 


4 . All deeds, contracts and other instruments relating to their respective de 
partments /office; by the concerned Heads of offices within the following monetary 
limits : - - 
( a ) If the total value involved does not exceed Rs. 3000 / - in each caso , 

by the Head of Office himself . 
( b ) If the total value Involved exceeds Rs, 3000 / - but does not exceed 

Rs. 5000 / - in each case ; with the prior approval of the Chief Secre 

tary . 
( c ) If the total value involved exceeds Rs. 5000 / - in each case , with the 

prior approval of the Chief Commissioner . 


XXXI. IN THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 
CHIEF COMMISSIONER , DELHI, AS REGARDS CONTRACTS NOT HEREIN 
BEFORE SPECIFIED : - - 


1 . All deeds and instruments relating to matters other than those specified in 
items 2 to 6 below ; by the Chief Commissioner . 
2. (a ) Contracts and other instruments connected with ferries , dues for 

grazing cattle on places other than canal bankg, Asheries , nazul 
buildings , spontaneous products and minerals , execution of minor 
works not under the Public Works Department, and the gupply of 

necessarles depots ; 
(b ) contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the lease or 

sale of land ; 


( c) contracts relating to any matters falling within his ordinary jurisdiction ; 
( d ) instruments of free grants of proprietary right in land ; 
( e) instruments whereby property is mortgaged to the Government as 

security for a loan ; and 
(1 ) instruments of exchange of land; 
by the Deputy Commissiomer , the Chief Secretary , a Secretary , a Deputy Secretary 
an Under Secretary to the Chief Commissioner or in so far as contracts under ( c ) 
are concerned , by the Land and Development Officer , Ministry of Works and 
Housing , or in so far as contracts and instruments under clauses ( b ) , ( c ) and ( e ) 
are concei ned, by the Developinent Commissioner, the Assistant Development Com 
missioner of the Deputy Registrar , Co - operative Societies , or in so far as con 
tracts and instruments under clauses ( b ) , ( e ) and ( f ) are concerned by the 
Housing Commissioner , the Deputy Housing / the Assistant Housing Commissioner 
or the Officer on Special Duty (Local Self Government Department ) . 


3. Contracts for the supply of clothing for the police ; by the Inspector General 
of Police, Delhi. 


4 . Contracts for the supply of articles for use in jails or regarding the sale 
of articles manufactured in jails ; by the Inspector General of Prisons, Punjab . 


5 . Contracts and other instruments for the supply of stores clothing and other 
equipment; by the Chief Secretary or a Secretary or a Deputy Secretary or al 
Under Secretary to the Chief Commissioner of the Head of Departments concerned 


732 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1966 /VAISAKHA 8, 1898 


[PART 11 


6 . ( a ) Contracts and other instruments relating to mattors connected with 

their respective Departments ( including mining leases ) ; 
(b ) contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals 

etc .; 
( c ) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or thels 

suretles to secure the due execution of an office or the due account 

ing for money or other property received by virtue thereof; 
by all Heads of Departments . 
Provided that , 
( 1 ) in the case of the Development Department, such contracts and instru 

ments may also be executed ; by the Assistant Development Com 

missioner or the Deputy Registrar, Co -operative Societies ; 
( 2 ) in the case of the Land and Housing Department. such contracts and 

Instruments may also be executed ; by the Deputy Housing Com 
missioner , Assistant Housing Commissioner or the Oncer on Special 

Duty (Local Self Government Department ) . 
(3 ) in the case of the Directorate of Civil Supplies , such contracts and 

instruments may also be executed ; by the Joint Director , Civil Supplies . 
7 , Agreements with the authorised wholesale and retail dealers in connection 
with the implementation of the scheme of statutory rationing in the Union terri 
tory of Delhi; by the Chief Controller of Rationing , Delhi, Controller of Rationing , 
Delhi Deputy Controller of Rationing , Delhi, 
XXXII. IN THE CASE OF UNION TERRITORY OF DADRA AND NAGAR 
HAVELI: 

1 . All contracts and instruments relating to matters other than those herein 
after specified ; by the Administrator , 

2 . Contracts and other instruments relating to advances granted to Government 
servants for the purchase of motor cars , motor cycles , cycles , or houses or for 
buiding purposes , or for medical attendance and treatment, or for festivals 
marriages , funerals or other ceremonies or for floods, etc ., or advances of pay and 
Travelling Allowance on transfer and tour, or advances of pay to persons pro 
ceeding on deputation abroad , or advances in respect of Travel Concession 
Scheme during regular leave; by the authorities granting the advances . 

3. Security bonds required to be executed by the members of the staff in con 
nection with their employment; by the Chief of Police in respect of the Police 
Department, by the Chief Forest Officer in respect of the Forest Department, bu 
the Survey Mamlatdar in respect of the Survey Department , by the Mamlatdar 
in respect of the Sub - treasury , by the Excise Officer in respect of the Excise De 
partment, by the Engineer in respect of the Public Works Department, by the 
Officer in charge of the court in respect of a Court, by Block Development 
Officer in respect of the Development Department, by a Mamlatdar in respect of 
the Rural Section , by the Agriculture and Veterinary Officer in respect of the 
Agriculture and Veterinary Department, and by the Chief Medical Officer in respect 
of the Medical Department. 

4. All contracts and instruments relating to works executed by the Forest 
Officer : 
( a ) upto Rs. 10,000 / - ; by the Chief Forest Officer with the approval of the 

Engineer , Public Works Department ; 
(b ) upto Rs. 50,000 /- ; by the Collector. 
5 . Contracts relating to renewal of Eksali ( yearly ) leases of lands by the 
Forest Department; by the Chief Forest Officer . 

6 . Contracts relating to supply of forest products to paper mills and industries 
and supply to catacheu to factories ; by the Collector . 

7 . Contracts and other instruments relating to matters connected with the 
administration and working of forests and the business of the Forest Department, 
other than those specified in Items 4 , 5 and 6 above : 
(a ) up to Rs. 5 ,000 / - in each case for periods not exceeding one year ; by 

the Chief Forest Officer ; and 


- 


Sec. 8 (0)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 733 

- - - 
(b ) upto Rs. 50 ,000 / - in each case for periods not exceeding three years; by 

the Collector , 
8 . Contracts for supply of B . N . D . stones to the Survey Department; by the 
Survey Mamlatdar $1bject to the prior approval of rate and quantity by the 
Collector . 


9. Contracts for the purchase , hire , supply and conveyance of all materials 
required for survey work : 

(a ) upto Rs. 500 / - in each case ; by the Survey Mamlatdar ; 

(b ) In other cases ; by the Collector. 
10 . Contracts and instruments relating to sale of liquor and toddy and tapping 
of toddy trees, including issuing licences therefor ; by the Ecclae Officer subject to 
the approval of the sale price of liquor and toddy by the Collector . 

11. Contracts and instruments relating to purchase , sale and supply of gur, 
mahua flowers , and other raw materials for the distillery ; by the Excuse Oficer 
subject to the approval of the rate and quantity by the Collector . 

12. Contracts and instruments relating to the purchase of machinery and other 
equipment for the distillery : 

( a ) upto Rs. 500 / - ; by the Excise Officer ; and 
(b ) upto Rs. 5,000 / -; by the Collector. 


13 . All contracts and instruments as regards matters not hereinbefore specified , 
In respect of the Excise Department; by the Collector . 

14 . Contracts and instruments relating to matters connected with purchase , 
sale, supply and conveyance of materials , stores , machinery and other equipment 
required by the Public Works Department: - 

( a ) upto Rs. 500 / - in each case ; by the Engineer ; 

( b ) upto Rs. 10, 000 / - in each case ; by the Collector. 
15 . Contracts and instruments relating to inatters connected with the execution 
of works by the Public Works Department: 

( a ) upto Rs. 10 ,000 / - ; by the Engineer ; and 

(b ) upto Rs. 50,000 / -; by the Collector . 
16 . Contracts and instruments relating to matters connected with bonds exe 
cuted by auctioneers and performance and completion of works; by the Engineer, 
Public Works Department. 

17. Contracts and Instruments relating to leases of houses, lands and other im 
movable property : 
( a ) upto Rs. 100 / - per month ; by the Engineer , Public Works Department; 

and 
( b ) upto Rs. 5 ,000 / - per month ; by the Collector , 
18 . Contracts relating to purchase of immovable property upto Rs. 50 ,000 / - ; 
by the Collector. 
19 . Contracts relating to Indenture Bonds for secured advances : 

( a ) upto Rs. 10 ,000 / -; by the Engineer, Public Works Department ; and 
(b ) upto Rs, 50 ,000 / -; by the Collector . 


20 . Contracts relating to the loan of Government property to contractors and 
others; by the Engineer , Public Works Department subject to the approval of the 
rate of hire charges by the Collector in cases where such charges are not laid 
down in the C . P . W . D . Manual. 

21 . Contracts relating to loans to goldsmiths upto Rs. 2 ,000 / -; by the 
Mamlatdar . 


22 . Contracts in respect of Taccavi loans; by the Block Development Officer 
or the Mamlatdar. 


784 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 / VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


[PART II 


23 . Contracts relating to loans for industrial development and to co - operative 
societies upto Rs. 50 ,000 / -; by the Collector. 

24 . Contracts * regard to observance of conditions for recovering taxes in 
weekly bazars , mutton shops, numbering of carts and sale of grass on Government 
lands under the Rural Section ; by the Mamlatdar of the Rural Section . 

25 . Contracts relating to charges in respect of supply of diet to prisoners ; by 
the Mamlatdar of the Rural Section . 

26 . Contracts entered into with Medical Anti-malarla , Nursing personnel and 
Sanitary Inspector belonging to Class III and Class IV ; by the Chief Medical 
Officer . 

27 . Contracts of or relating to service with Civil Medical Practioners ; by 
the Collector. 

28 . Contracts for the supply of instruments, apparatus, accessories and other 
supplies required by the Medical Department: 

( a ) upto Rs. 500 / -; by the Chief Medical Officer ; and 

(b ) upto Rs . 10 ,000 / -; by the Collector . 
29. Contracts relating to Adelity guarantee Insurances in respect of Govern 
ment property and vehicles upto Rs. 50 ,000 / - ; by the Collector . 

30. Contracts relating to foodgrains upto Rs. 50 ,000 / -; by the Collector . 

31. Contracts relating to auction sales for recovery of Government dues upto 
Rs. 25,000 / -; by the Collector . 

32. Contracts with Contract oicers ; by the Collector . 

XXXIN . IN THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE ADMINISTRATION OF GOA , 
DAMAN AND DIU AS REGARDS CONTRACTS NOT HEREBEFORE SPECI 


FILD : 


Al deeds, contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the 

administration of the territories ; by the Secretary of the Department 
concerned subject to the monetary limits prescribed under the Busi 

ness Rules. 
XXXIV . IN THE CASE OF THE UNION TERRITORY OF HIMACHAL PRA 
DESH , AS REGARDS CONTRACTS ETC ., NOT HEREINBEFORE SPECIFIED : - - 

1 . Al deeds and instruments relating to matters other than those specified in 
item 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 below ; by a Secretary to the Himachal Pradesh Administra 
tion . 

2 . Contracts and other instruments relating to matters connected with the 
administration of forests and the business of the Forest Department, but not re 
lating to the purchase or sale or permanent acquisition of land : 
( a ) if the amount or value does not exceed Rs. 2 ,000/ - ; by the Divisional 

Forest Officer ; 
(b ) if the amount or value does not exceed Rs. 50 ,000; by the Conservator of 

Forests ; and 
( c ) if the amount or value exceeds Rs. 50 ,000 ; but not Rs. 1,00 , 000 ; by the 

Chief Conservator of Forests. 
3 Sanctions of petty leases for specified purposes, such as water mills. shops , 
timber depots : 
(a ) upto Rs. 1,000 per annum in each case for periods not exceeding flye 

years ; hu the Divisional Forest Officer. 
(b ) upto Rs. 3.000 per annum in each case for periods not exceeding flye 

years ; bu Conservator of Forests and 
( c ) upto Rs. 5000 piss onnum in each case for period not exceeding five 

yrars ; h ? the Chief Conservator of Forests . 
4 In the casn of the Public Worlts Department : 
( a ) All instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage 

of materials , stores, machinery etc . ; 


Sic , 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1986 / VAISAKHA %, 188B 


35 


(b ) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con 

nected with building , bridges , roads, canals , tanks, reservoirs , and em 
bankments and instruments relating to the construction of water works 

and the erection of machinery ; 
(c ) bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance and 

completion of works; and 
( d ) security bonds for the performance of their duties by Government ser 

vants whom the officers specified below have power to appoint; 
by Chief Engineer , Superintending Engineers , Divisional Officers , Sub -Divisional 
Officers ; Assistant Executive Engineers , Assistant Electrical Engineers and Assis 
tant Engineers. 
8 . ( a ) Contracts and other instruments connected with ferries , dues for graz 

ing cattle on places other than forests , fishcrics, nazul buildings , spon 
taneous products and minerals , execution of minor works not under 

the Public Works Department; and for the supply of necessary depots ; 
( b ) contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the lease or 

sale of lands; 
( c ) contracts relating to any matters falling within his ordinary jurisdiction ; 
(d ) instruments of free grants of proprietary rights in land; 
( e ) instruments whereby property is mortgaged to the Government as 

security for a loan ; and 
( 1) instruments of exchange of land; 
by the Deputy Commissioner in or a Secretary or an Under Secretary to the Hima 
chal Pradesh Administration . 

6 . Contracts for the supply of clothing etc . for the Police ; by Secretary to the 
Himachal Pradesh Administration , 

7 . Contracts for the supply of articles for use in jails ; or regarding the sale of 
articles manufactured in jails ; by the Inspector General of Prisons, Himachal Pra 
desh . 

8. Contracts and other instruments for the supply of stores , clothing etc ; by 
the Heads of Departments concerned . 

9 . Contracts for booking premises and engagement of private vehicles ; by the 
Regional Managers of Himachal Pradesh Government Transport . 

10 . Contracts and other instruments relating to matters connected with their 
respective departments ( including mining leases ) ; by the Head of the Department 
concerned . 


11. Contracts and instruments relating to lease of premises for office purpose 
when the annual rent does not exceed Rs. 500 / - ; by the Head of Office . 


XXXV . IN THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 
ADMINISTRATOR , LACADIVE , MINICOY AND AMINDIVI ISLANDS , AS 
REGARDS CONTRACTS NOT HEREINBEFORE SPECIFIED : 
All deeds , contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the 

adminitstration of the Islands; by the Administrator . 
XXXVI. IN THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 
CHIEF COMMISSIONER MANIPUR AS REGARDS CONTRACTS NOT HEREIN 
BEFORE SPECIFIED : 


1 . All deeds and instruments relating to matters other than those specified in 
Items 2 to 7 below ; by the Chief Commissioner or any other officer authorised to 
authenticate orders and other instruments made and executed in the name of the 
Administrator , in accordance with rules made under sub - section ( 3 ) or sectiun? - 
of the Government of Union Territories Act , 1963 . 

2 . Deeds, contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the sale of 
forest produce of all kinds if the amount or value does not in any case exceed 
Rs. 2,000 / -; by the Chief Forest Officer . 
3 . Llee is, contracts and other instruments relating to : - - 
(1) execution of minor works for the Police Department not under the Pub 

lic Works Department, and 


796 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRÍL 23 , 1966 / VAISAKHA 9, 1888 


[PART II 


- 


- - 


( u ) supply of articles and medicines for use by the Manipur Rifles and any 

matters falling within his ordinary jurisdiction ; 
by the Superintendent of Police, 

4 . Contracts for supply of articles for use in jail or regarding the sale of arti 
cles manufactured in jail; by the Inspector General of Prisons, 

6 . Contracts for supply of articles and medicines for use in hospitals ; by the 
Director of Medical and Health Services. 

6 . Contracts and other instruments relating to the Public Works Department; 
by Executive Engineers and by Assistant Engineers , where the value in each case 
does not exceed Rs. 5000 .00 . 

7 . Deeds and contracts for the supply of articles and execution of minor works 
not under the Public Works Department, required for use of any department and 
other instruments connected with the administration of that department; by the 
Head of the Department concerned . 

XXXVII. IN THE CASE OF THE NORTH EAST FRONTIER AGENCY AS 
REGARDS CONTRACTS NOT HEREINBEFORE SPECIFIED : -- 
I , ( a ) Contracts and other instruments in matters connected with prospecting 

and exploring licenses and mining leases; and 
( b ) Contracts and other instruments for the sale , purchase , supply , carriage 

or conveyance of stores and building materials and for the provision 

of labour and for public works and such like engagements ; 
by the Adviser to the Governor of Assam , North East Frontier Agency or the 
Secretary General, Administration , North East Frontier Agency , the Political 
Oficers, Tirap , Lohit , Siang , Subansiri and Kameng Frontier Divisions . 
2 . ( a ) Service contracts to be executed in connection with the recruitment of 

Officers to the Assam Rifles ; and 
( b ) Security Bonds of Caghiers in Battalion Headquarters of the Assam 

Rifles and other Government Servants employed in the Assam Rifles 
or their sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due 

accounting for money or other property received by virtue thereof; 
by the Advişer to the Governor of Assam , North East Frontier Agency of the 
Inspector General of Assam Rifles, 


3. All contracts and instruments relating to matters connected with the sale , 
supply , carriage or conveyance of stores and building materials, or for the provi 
sion of labour, and service contracts with the staff ; by the Director of Supply and 
Transport, North East Frontier Agency . 


1 . All deeds and instruments relating to matters other than those specified in 
items 1 to 3 above ; by the Adviser to the Governor of Assam , North East Frontier 
Agency of the Secretary General Administration , North East Frontier Agency . 

5 . Contracts for the supply of stores to the Assam Rifles Battalions and Head 
Quarters: upto a limit of Rs. 1, 00 , 000 / - ; by the Inspector General of Assam Rifles , 
Deputy Inspector General of Assam Rifles and in case of contracts in excess of 
Rs. 1,00,000 / -; by the Inspector General of Assam Rifles. 

XXXVIII. IN THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR , PONDICHERRY : 

1 . ( a ) Contracts and other instruments connected with ferries , dues for gruzing 
cattle on places other than canal banks, fisheries, nazul buildings , spontaneous 
products and minerals ; 

(b ) contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the leasc or 
sale of land ; 

( c ) contracts relating to any matters falling within his ordinary jurisdiction ; 
(d ) Instruments of free grants of proprietary right in land; 

( e ) instruments whereby property is mortgaged to the Government as securi 
ty for a loan ; and 


SIC. $(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1966 / VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


737 


(f) instruments of exchange of land; by the Chief of the Contributions De 

partment of Secretary - in -Charge of the Contributions Department. 


2 . Contracts for the supply of clothing, arms and ammunition , headgear , hel 
mets, police band articles and provisions for use in the Police Department; by the 
Inspector General of Police, 

3 . Contracts for the supply of articles for use in jails , or regarding the sale of 
articles manufactured in jails ; by the Superintendents of Police , Pondicherry and 
Karaikal. 

4 . Contracts and other instruments for the supply of stores and clothing ; by 
the Secretary in charge of the Department concerned . 

5 . Contracts and agreements relating to hire of tractors , oil engines , agricul 
tural imp. ements and tools to private parties by the Agriculture Department; by 
the Director of Agriculture . 


6 . Contracts and other instruments relating to matter connected with a Depart 
ment ( including mining leases ) ; by the Chief Commissioner or the Secretary - in 
charge of the Department concerned or by the Head of the Department it autho 
rised by the Lieutenant Governor. 

XXXIX . IN THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE GOVERNMENT OF THE 
ADMINISTRATION TRIPURA AS REGARDS CONTRACTS NOT HEREIN 
BIFORE SPECIFIED : — 
1. All contracts relating to matters connected with settlement of land : 
(a ) when the contract is not one relating to settlement of land in Raiyoti 

right; by the Collector of Tripura with the approval of the Adminis 

trator ; And 
( b ) when the contract is one relating to settlement of land in Raiyoti right 

whatever the annual revenue may be ; by the Collector of Tripura or 
by the Sub -Divisional Officers Additional sub - Divisional Officers in 
their respective sub - division subject to the approval of the Collector , 

the approval of the Administrator in both cases being necessary . 
2 . Contracts and other instruments connected with fertics under the control 
of the Government grazing fees , natural products and minerals, execution of 
minor works not under the Public Works Department: - -- 
( a ) if the total value involved does not exceed Rs. 500 ; by the Sub -Divi 

sional Officers / Divisional Forest Officers of the Forest Dizision 2016 

cerned with the appoval of the Administrator; and 
( b ) il such value exceeds Rs. 500 but does not exceed Rs. 1, 000 ; by the 

Collector / Chief Forest Officer of Tripura with the approval of the 
Administrator. 


3 . Contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the sale of forest 
produce of all kinds and leases of reserved forests for cultivation ; 
( a ) if the total value involved does not exceed Rs. 10 , 000 ; by the Chief 

Forest Officer , Tripura with the approval of the Administrator; And 
(b ) if such value exceeds Rs. 10 ,000 ; by the Secretary to the Government 

in the Forest Department with the approval of the Administrator. 
4 . Contracts and other instruments relating to expenditure on conservancy of 
forests and works undertaken by the Forest Department : 
( a ) if the total value involved does not exceed Rs. 10 ,000 ; by the Chief 

Forest Officer, Tripura , with the approval of the Administrator, and 
( b ) If such value exceeds Rs. 10 ,000 ; by the Secretary to the Government 

in the Forest Department with the approval of the Administrator. 
5 . Contracts and other instruments relating to matters connected with the sup 
ply of stores , clothing and other equipment : 
(a ) If the total value involved does not exceed Rs. 10 ,000 ; by the Head of 

Department with the approval of the Administrator ; and 
(b ) if such value exceeds Rs. 10 .000 ; by the Secretary to the Government 

in the appropriate department with the approval of the Administra 
tor , 


728 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 / VAIYAKHA 9, 1888 


PART II 


6 . Contracts and other instruments relating to the Public Works Department, 
by the Principal Engineer and Superintending Engineer , Executive Engineers , 
Assistant Executive Engineers and Assistant Engineers . 


7 . Instruments whereby property is mortgaged to Government as security for 
loans : 

( a ) Relating to industrial loans 
(1) if the loan does not exceed Rs. 2 ,000 ; by the Head of Department with 

the approval of the Administrator , 
( 11) If such value exceeds Rs. 2 ,000 ; by the Secretary to the Government 

in the appropriate department with the approval of the Administra 

tor . 
( b ) Relating to rehabilitation loans 
(1 ) it the loan does not exceed Rs. 2, 000 ; by the Director of Rehabilitation 

with the approval of the Administratur . 
( 11 ) if the loan exceeds of Rs. 2 , 000 ; by the Secretary to the Government 

Rehabilitation Department with the approval of the Administrator , 


(c ) Relating to Agriculture loang 
( 1) if the loan does not exceed Rs. 2 , 000 ; by the Director of Agriculture 

or District Magistrate and Collector with the approval of the Au 

ministrator . 
( i ) It such loan exceeds Rs. 2 , 000 ; by the Secretary to the Government in 

the Agriculture Department with the approval of the Administra 

tor; and 
( d ) Relating to housing and other loans; by the Secretary to the Govern 

ment in the appropriate department with the approval of the Ad 
ministrator, 


8 . Contracts for the supply of articles for use in jails or the sale of artlcieg 
manufactured in jails, if the total value does not exceed Rs. 10 ,000 ; by the Sup 
erlatendent of Jall , with the approval of the Administrator. 
9 . ( 1) contracts and other instruments in matters connected with leases of 

houses , buildings , premises , provided that the monthly rent reserved 
does not exceed Rs. 500 ; by the Secretary to the Govertiment in the 

appropriate department with the approval of the Administrator. 
( 11 ) contracts and other instruments in matters connected with leases or 

houses , building, premises ; by the Executive Engineers with the 
approval of the Administrator when such contracts etc ., relate to 

Public Works Department. 
10 . Contracts and other instruments in connection with matters relating to the 
supply , storage , carriage of essential commodities or other goods ; 
( a ) in the case of transactions of the Food and Civil Supplies Department 

upto the monetary limit of Rs. 50, 000 ; by the District Magistrate and 
Collector and beyond Rs. 50 ,000 ; by the Secretary of the Food and 

Civil Supplies Department with the approval of the Administrator . 
( b ) in other cases ; by the Secretary to the Government in the appropriate 

department with the approval of the Administrctor. 


11. Contracts and other instruments relating to training in various courses and 
educational stipends;bi the Secretary of the Department concerned with the 
approval of the Administrator . 


12. Contracts and other instruments not specified in any of the items mention 
ad above and connected with any department or office under the control and 
falung within his jurisdiction as head of the Government of Tripura ; by the 
Administrator . 


SEC . 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKIIA 3. 1888 730 

- : - -- - - 
XL . IN THE CASE OF THE SUPREME COURT: 

1. Contracts and other instruments relating to advances granted to Court Ser 
vauts for the purchase of motor cars , motor cycles , cycles or houses or for building 
houses or for medical attendance and treatment or for festival or for floods etc . or 
advances of pay and travelling allowance on transfer and tour or advances in 
respect of Travel Concession Scheme during regular leave ; by the Registrar and 
Deputy Registrar (Administration ) in the case of instruments executed by the 
Registrar for any of the purposes mentioned above . 

2 . All miscellaneous contracts and instruments relating to any matters other 
than those specified in item 1 ; by the Registrar . 

XLI. Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained , any contract or assur 
ance of property relating to any matter whatsoever may be executed by the 
Secretary or the Special Secretary or the Additional Secretary or a Joint Secretary 
or a Director or where there is no Additional Secretary or a Joint Secretary , or a 
Director , a Deputy Secretary to the Central Government in the appropriate Minis 
try or Department and in the case of the Committee on Plan Project, by the 
Secretary , Committee Plan Project and in the case of the Secretariat of either 
House of Parliament, by the Secretary or Joint Secretary of that House , and in the 
case of the Union Public Service Commission , by the Secretary of Joint Secretary 
of the Commission and in the case of the Presidents Secreta iat, by the Secretary 
to the President or Under Secretary , President s Secretariat and in the case of the 
Prime Ministers Secretariat, by the Secretary or the Joint Secretary to the Prime 
Minister or the Private Secretary (Administration ) or the Additional Private Secte 
tary , ( Administration ) to the Prime Minister and in the case of the Election Com 
mission , by the Secretary , Election Commission , and in the case of the Central 
Vigilance Commission ; by the Secretary , Central Vigilance Commission . 

XLII , Where any business of any department is, by virtue of reorganisation or 
otherwise, transferred to any other department, whether existing or new , references 
In this notification to the department from which such business is transferred , 
sbal. , in relation to such business , be construed as references to the department 
to which it has been transferred . 

Explanation . In this paragraph " department" means any Ministry, Department, 
Secretariat . or Office of the Government of India . 

[No. ¥ . 17 (1 )/ 84 - J. ] 
G , H . RAJADHYAKSHA , Addl. Secy .. 


(Dopartment of Company Affalrg ) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 7th April 1986 
G . S . R . 686 . - In notification No . G . S . R . 421, dated the 18th March , 1966 of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Law (Department of Company Affairs ) , 
appearing at pages 209 - 213 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary Part II , Sec . 
tion 3 , sub- section (i) dated the 18th March , 1960 , in Form No. 78 

(1) for " No. in wards" read " No. in words" ; 
(11) for " * CONSIDERATION (in words )” read " ACONSIDERATION ( In 

words) " ; 
(iii ) for " Transferee ( s) name(g ) in full preferably typerwrittenorinblock 

capitals )” read " Transferee ( s ) nama( s ) in full ( preferably typewrit 

ten or in block capitals .) " ; 
(lv ) for " before the instwrument is lodged ” read " before the instrument is 

lodged " ; 
(v ) for “ * 3 . Signature by thumb impressions," read " 3. Signature or 
thumb impressions" . 

(No . F . 12 / 19 /64 - PR .) 
M , K . BANERJEE , Under Secy . 


740 


[PAKT II 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1966 /VAISAKHA 9 , 1888 

= = = 

MINISTRY OF RALWAYS 


(Railway Board ) 

New Delhi, the 11th April 1966 
G . S . R , 587 , — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 84 of the Indian 
Railways Act, 1890 ( 9 of 1890 ) and in supersession of the rules published with the 
Notification of the late Railway Department (Raliway Board ) No. 1926 - T , dated 
the 19th March , 1930 , the Central Government hereby makes the following rules , 
namely : 

1. Short title . These rules may be called the Railway (Notices of and Inquiries 
into Accidents ) Rules , 1966 . 


Notices 


2 . Particulars to be given in the notices. The notices mentioned in section 83 
of the Indian Railways Act, 1890 ( 9 of 1890 ) , referred to as " the Act ” , shall con 
tain the following particulars , namely - 

(i ) kilometrage, or station or both , at which the accident occurred ; 
( ii ) time and date of the accident ; 
( iii ) nurnber and description of the train or trains; 
( iv ) nature of the accident ; 
( v ) number of people killed or injured , as far as is known ; 
( vi ) cause of the accident, as far as is known ; 
( vil ) probable detention to traffic , 


3 . Responsibility for sending notices — to whom to be sent and mode thereof. --- 
When any accident such as is described in section 83 of the Act occurs in the course 
of working a railway , the station master nearest to the place at which the accident 
has occurred , or , where there is no station master , the railway servant in charge 
of the section of the railway on which the accident has occurred , or , any other 
station master in charge of a section of a railway to whom the report of the 
accident is made, shall give notice of the accident by telegraph to the Additional 
Commissioner of Railway Safety , the District Magistrate and the District Superin 
tendent of Police of the district in which the accident has occurred or such other 
Magistrate or police officer as may be appointed in this behalf by the State 
Government concerned and by telegraph , telephone or through special messenger 
or such other quick means as may be available , to the Superintendent of Railway 
Police and to the officer - in - charge of the police station within the local limits 
of which it has occurred . 


Explanation . For the purpose of this rule accidents of a description usually 
attended with loss of human life are meant to include all accidents to passenger 
trains like collisions, derailments , train -wrecking , or attempted train -wrecking , 
cases of running over obstructions placed on the line, of passengers falling out of 
trains or of fires in trains, in which no loss of life or grievous hurt as defined in 
the Indian Penal Code, or serious damage to rallway property of the value exceed 
ing Rs. 50 ,000 has actually occurred but which by the nature of the accident 
might reasonably have been expected to occur ; and also cases of landslides , or of 
breaches by rain or flood , which cause the interruption of any important through 
line of communication for atleast 24 hours , 


4 . Mode of sending notices to the State Government. The notice of accidents 
required by section 83 of the Act to be sent without unnecessary delay by the 
railway administration to the State Government shall be gent 

( a ) by telegram in the case of — 
( i) accidents deemed under the Explanation to rule 7 to be serious by 

reason of loss of human life ; 
( ii ) accidents by reason of which the permanent way is likely to be 

blocked for more than twenty - four hours ; and 
(ili ) train -wrecking or attempted train -wrecking; and 
(b ) by letter in all other cases . 


BZG (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


741 


Duties of railway servants 
5 . Rallway servants to report accidents . - Every railway servant shall report , 
with as little delay as possible , every accident occurring in the course of working 
the railway which may came to his notice . Such report shall be made to the 
nearest station master, or , where there is no station master , to the railway servant 
in charge of the section of the railway on which the accident has occurred . 

0 . Station master or railway servant In charge of the section to report accl 
dents . The station master , or the railway servant in charge of the section , shall 
report the accident in accordance with the rules laid down by the railway admin 
istration concerned for the reporting of accidents . 

Duties of Divisional Superintendents and District Traffic Superintendents. 

7 . Railway administration to report serlous accidents . — Whenever a serious 
accident occurs , the railway administration concerned shall, as soon after the 
accident as possible , by telegraph supply to the Press such particulars , as are 
mentioned in ruln 2 and as are till ther available , supplementary telegrams, if 
necessary , hcing despatched immediately further information is available . A copy 
shall be sent simultaneously by " Express " telegram to the Railway Board , the 
Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety of the circle concerned and the Com 
missioner of Railway Safety . In stating the cause of the accident the railway 
administration shall avoid inaking any statement the correctness of which may 
subsequently be questioned . 
Etplanation . - - For the purpose of this rule 
( i) every accident to a train (whether carrying passengers or not) which 

is attended with loss of human life or with grievous hurt as defined 
in the Indian Penal Code, or with serious damage to railway property 
of the value exceeding Rs. 50 , 000, and every accident, such as a land 
silde, breach by rain or food or derailment which causes the inter 
ruption of any important through line of communication for at least 

twenty - four hours , shall be deemed to be a serious accident; and 
( il) cases of trespassers run over and injured or killed through their own 

carelessness or of passengers injured or killed through their own 

carelessness shall not be deemed to be serious accidents . 
Duties of the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety [ Inspector of Railways 

appointed under sub - section ( 1) of section 4 of the Act ]. 
8. Enquiry into a service accident by the Additional Commissioner of Railway 
Safety. - ( 1 ) ( a ) Whenever the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety 
receives notice under section 83 of the Act of the occurrence of an accident which 
he considers of a sufficiently serious nature to justify such a course he shall, as 
soon as may be, notify the Railway Board and the Head of the Railway Adminis . 
tration concerned oť his intention to hold an inquiry and shall , at the same time, 
fx and communicate the date , time and place for the inquiry . He shall also isgue 
a Pregs note in this behalf inviting the public to tender evidence at the inquiry 
or send information relating to the accident to his office address. 

( b ) While notifying his intention to hold an inquiry as aforesaid , the Addi 
tional Commissioner of Railway Safety shall also advise the District Magistrate 
and the Superintendent of Police of the district concerned , 

( 2 ) For the purpose of this rule, every accident to a train carrying pagsengers 
which is attended with loss of human life , ar grievous hurt as defined in the Indian 
Penal Code to a person or persons in the train or with serious damage to railway 
property of the valur exceeding Rs. 50 , 000 and any other accident which in the 
opinion of the Conmissioner of Railway Safety or the Additional Commissioner of 
Railway Safety requires the holding of an inquiry shall be deemed to be as 
accident of such a serious nature as to require the holding of an Inquiry . 


( 3 ) Where the Commissioner of Railway Safety considers the holding of an 
Inquiry into an accident necessary , he may either hold the inquiry himself or 
direct the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety to do so. 


Explanation . -- The Inquiry by the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety 
shall be obligatory only in those cases where the passengers killed or grievously 
hurt were travelling in the train . If a person travelling on the foot -board or 
roof of a passenger train is killed or grievously hurt or if a person is run over 
at a level crossing or elsewhere on the railway track , an inquiry by the Addi 
tional Commissioner of. Railway Safety shall not be obligatory . Similarly , if in 


792 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 

WISH 


[PART II 


a collision between a road vehicle and a passenger train at a level - Crossing no 
passenger in the train is killed or grievously hurt the Additional Com nissioner of 
Railway Safety shall not be obliged to hold an inquiry . For the purpose of this 
rule , workmen s trains or ballast trains carrying workmen shall also be treated 
As passenger trains and in the event of a workman getting killed or grievously 
hurt as a result of an accident to the train , an inquiry by the Additional Com 
missioner of Railway Safety shall be obligatory . 


(4 ) When an accident requiring the holding of an inquiry occurs at a station 
where the jurisdictions of two or more Additional Commissioners of Railway 
Safety meet , the duty of complying with this rule shall devolve on the Addi 
tional Commissioner of Railway Safety within whose Jurisdiction the railway 
working such station lies. 

( 5 ) If, for any reason , the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety is un 
able to hold an inquiry at an early date after the occurrence of such an accident, 
the Head of the Railway Administration concerned shall, on request by the Addi 
tional Commissioner of Railway Safety , forward to him , with as little delay as 
possible , the proceedings of the joint inquiry which has been made under rule 19 . 
The Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety shall advise the Railway Board of 
the reason why an inquiry has not been held by himself. If the Additional 
Commissioner of Railway Safety , after examination of the joint inquiry proceed 
ings , considers that an inquiry should be held by himself, he shall , as soon as 
possible , notify the Railway Board and the Head of the Railway Administration 
concerned , of his intention to hold an inquiry and he shall at the same time fix 
and communicate the date , time and place for the inquiry . 


( 6 ) ( a ) Where , having regard to the nature of the accident, the Central Gov 
ernment has appointed a Commission of Inquiry to inquire into the accident under 
the Commissions of Inquiry Act , 1952 (60 of 1952) . Or has appointed any other 
authority to inquire into it and for that purpose has made all or any of the provi 
sions of the said Act applicable to that authority , the Additional Commissioner 
of Railway Safety to whom notice of the accident has been given shall not hold 
his inquiry and where he has already commenced his inquiry he shall not proceed 
further with it, and shall hand over the evidence, records or other documents in 
his possession relating to the inquiry to such authority as may be specified by 
the Central Government in this behalf . 


( b ) If, as a result of the police investigation a regular case is lodged in a 
criminal court by the police, the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety shall 
discontinue his inquiry . 


9 . Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety to submit a brief preliminary 
narrative report. - Where the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety has 
held an inquiry in respect of any of the accidents described in sub - rule ( 3 ) of 
rule 8 he shall submit a brief preliminary narrative report to the Commissioner 
of Railway Safety and the Railway Board simultaneously . The report shall be 
factual and shall not contain any reference to persons implicated . 


10 . Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety to submit a report. Whenever 
the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety has made an inquiry under rule 
8 , or when in pursuance of sub -rule ( $ ) of rule 8 , an inquiry is held by a com 
mittee of rallway officers in accordance with the provisions of rule 19 , he shall 
submit a report in writing to the Commissioner of Railway Safety and shal 
forward a copy of the report cach to 

(i) the Railway Board ; 
Au ) the railway administration concerned ; 
( iii ) in the case of a railway under the control of a State Government or 

Local Administration , to such Government or administration also ; 
( iv ) if a magisterial inquiry is being made, to the Magistrate making the 

Inquiry ; and 
( y ) if the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety finds that the acci 

dent was caused by sabotage or train wrecking , to the Director, Intel 
ligence Bureau , Ministry bf Home Affairs , Government of India . 


11 . Publication of reports . Recomnncndations in regard to the publication of 
reports shall be made by the Commikgioner of Railway Safety to the Central 
Government. 


Stc. 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 / VAISAKHA 9, 1888 


743 


12 . Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety to assist the Magistrate or the 
Commission of Inquiry etc . In clarlfying technical matters . - - The Additional Com 
missioner of Railway Safety shall, as far as possible , assist any Magistrate making 
a judicial inquiry or an inquiry under rule 23 or a Commission of Inquiry 
appointed under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 ( 60 of 1952 ) , or any other 
authority appointed by the Central Government to which all or any of the provi 
sions of the said Act have been made applicable , whenever he may be called upon 
to do so for the purpose of clarification of any technical matters, 

13 . Powers of the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety - - Nothing in 
these rules shall, except to the extent provided in sub - rule ( 6 ) of rule 8 , be deem 
ed to limit or otherwise affect the exercise of any of the powers conferred on 
Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety ( Inspector ) by section 5 of the Act . 
Duties of the Head of the Railway Administration and of the Head of the 

Department concerned 
14 . Facility for reaching the site of accident. — Whenever any accident has 
occurred in the course om working a rallway , the Head of the Railway Administra 
tion concerned shall give all reasonable aid to the District Magistrate or the 
Magistrate appointed or deputed under rule 23 , to the Commission of Inquiry 
appointed under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 (60 of 1952 ) , or any other 
authority to which all or any of the provisions of the said Act have been made 
applicable , and to the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety , medical officers , 
the police , and others concerned to enable them to reach the scene of the acci 
dent promptly , and shall also assist those authorities in making inquiries and in 
obtaining evidence as to the cause of the accident. 

15 . Medical aid to the persons grievously hurt in accidents . Whenever any 
accident, occurring in the course of working a railway, has been attended with 
grievous hurt as defined in the Indian Penal Code, it shall be the duty of the Head 
of the Railway Administration concerned to afford medical aid to the sufferers , 
and to see that they are properly and carefully attended to till they are removed 
to their homes or handed over to the care of their relatives or friends . In any 
such case , or in any case in which any loss of human life or grievous hurt as 
defined in the Indian Penal Code, has occurred , the nearest available local medical 
officer shall be sent for if such medical officer is nearer at hand than the railway 
medical officer. 


16 . Arranging attendance of rallway servants at the place of inquiry . When 
an inquiry under rule & or rule 23 or a judicial inquiry is being made, the Head 
of the Railway Administration concerned shall arrange for the attendance , as long 
as may be necessary , at the place of inquiry , of all railway servants whose evid 
ence is likely to be required at such inquiry ; and if the inquiry is to be held by 
the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety under rule 8 , the Head of the 
Railway Administration concerned shall cause notice of the date , hour and place 
at which the inquiry will begin to be given to the officers mentioned in clauses 
( a ) and ( c ) of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 20. He shall also arrange for the attendance 
of the divisional or district officers at the inquiry . 


17 . Aotlon to be taken by Head of the Railway Administration on receipt of 
the report. Whenever the Head of the Railway Administration concerned 
receives a copy of the report of the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety 
under rule 10 , he shall at once acknowledge its receipt. If he differs from the 
views expressed in the report, he shall at the same time submit his remarks 
thereon , or , if he is not able to do so immediately , he shall, in his acknowledge 
ment of the report , inform the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety of 
his intention to submit his remarks later . If the Head of the Railway Adminis 
tration concerned considers the prosecution of any person or persons desirable , he 
shall immediately forward a copy of the report together with a statement of such 
persons to the District Magistrate of the district in which the accident occurred , 
or to such other officer as the State Government may appoint in this behalf and 
to the concerned police authorities. On receipt of the findings of the Additional 
Commissioner of Railway Safety , the police authorities shall, as soon as possible , 
intimate the Head of the Rallway Administration concerned about their decision 
regarding launching of any prosecution . 


18 . Houd of the Railway Administration to offer remarks on the suggestions 
made in the report. - Whencver the report of the Additional Commissioner of 
Railway Safety points to the necessity for or suggests a change in any of the 
rules or in the system of working of the railway , the Head of the Railway Admin 
istration concerned shall, when acknowledging the report , intimate the action 


744 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


[PAKT IJ 


which has been taken , or which it is proposed to take, to prevent a recurrence of 
similar accidents or shall inform the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety 
of his intention to report further on the proposals contained in the report of the 
Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety . 

19 . Joint Inquiry when dispersed with . - ( 1 ) Whenever an accident, such as 18 
described in section 83 of the Act, has occurred in the course of working a rail 
way , the Head of the Railway Administration concerned shall cause an inquiry 
to be promptly made by a committee of railway officers ( to be called a " joint 
inquiry " ) for the thorough investigation of the causes which led to the accident: 


Provided that such inquiry may be dispensed with 
(a ) iſ any inquiry is to be held by the Additional Commissioner of Rail 

way Safety or a Commission of Inquiry appointed under the Com 
missions of Inquiry Act , 1952 ( 80 of 1952 ) or any other authority 
uppointed by the Central Government to which all or any of the 

provisions of the said Act have been made applicable under rule 8 ; or 
( b ) if the accident has not been attended with loss of human life or with 

grievous hurt, as defined in the Indian Penal Code, or with gerious 

damage to railway property of the value exceeding Rs. 60, 008 ; or 
( c ) if there is no reasonable doubt as to the cause of the accident; or 
( d ) if any department of the railway administration concerned intimates 

that it accepts all responsibility in the matter. 


( 2 ) Where such inquiry is dispensed with under any of the clauses ( b ) , ( c ) 
or (d ) of the proviso to sub - rule 1 , it shall be the duty of the Head of the depart 
ment of the railway administration responsible for the accident to make such 
Inquiry ( to be called a " departmental Inquiry ) as he may consider necessary 
and , it his staff or the system of working is at fault , to adopt or suggest such 
meagures as he may consider necessary for preventing a recurrence of similar 
accidents . 


20 . Notice of joint inquiry . — ( 1 ) Whenever a joint inquiry is to be made, the 
Head of the Railway Administration concerned shall cause notice of the date and 
hour at which the inquiry will commence to be given to the following officers, 
namely : 
( a ) the District Magistrate of the district in which the accident occurred , 

or such other officer as the State Government may appoint in this 
behalf , the Superintendent of the Railway Police and the District 

Superintendent of Police; 
(b ) the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety for the section of the 

railway on which the accident occurred ; and 
( c ) the head of the Railway Police having jurisdiction at the place where 

the accident occurred or, if there are no Railway Police, the officer 
in - charge of the police station having jurisdiction at such place . 


( 2 ) The date and hour at which the inquiry will commence shall be Axed so 
as to give the officers mentioned in sub - rule ( 1 ) sufficient time to reach the place 
where the inquiry is to be held . 


21. Report of the joint or departmental inquiry to be sent to the Head of tho 
Rallway Administration and action to be taken thereon . — ( 1 ) As soon as any joint 
or departmental inquiry has been completed , the President of the committee of 
railway officers or the Head of the department, as the case may be, shall gent to 
the Head of the Railway Administration concerned a report which , in the case 
of all accidents of the nature described in the explanation to rule 7, shall contain - - 

( a ) a brief description of the accident ; 
( b ) a description of the locality of the accident; 
( c ) a detailed statement of the evidence taken ; 
( d ) the conclusions arrived at together with a note of dissent, if any ; 
( e ) reasons for conclusions arrived at ; 
( f ) the nature and extent of the damage done; 
( g ) when necessary, a sketch illustrative of the accident; 
( h ) the number of railway servants killed or injured ; 


SBC 3(1) ]: 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


745 


( i) the number of passengers killed or injured ; 
(j ) an appendix containing extracts of the rules violated by the staff res 

ponsible for the accident. 


( 2 ) The Head of the Railway Administration concerned shall forward , with 
his remarks as to the action it is intended to take in regard to the staff responsible 
for the accident or for the revision of the rules or the system of working, a copy 
of the report referred to in sub - rule ( 1 ) 
( a ) to the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety for the gection of 

the railway on which the accident occurred ; 
(b ) if no inquiry or investigation has been made under rule 23 or if a 

joint or departmental inquiry has been held Arst , to the District 
Magistrate or the officer appointed under clause ( a ) of sub - rule ( 1 ) 

of rule 20 ; and 
( c ) if any judicial inquiry is being made, to the Magistrate making such 

inquiry . 


( 3 ) The copy of the report aforesaid shall be accompanied , - 
( a ) in the case referred to in clause (b ) of sub - rule ( 2 ), by a statement 

of the persons involved in the accident whose prosecution the Head 

of the Railway Administration concerned considers to be desirable ; 
( b ) in the case referred to in clause ( c ) of the said sub - rule , by a copy 

of the evidence taken at the inquiry . 


22 . Reports of Inquiries into acoldents not covered by Seotion 83 to be for 
warded to Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety . A copy each of reports 
of inquiries held on accidents not of the nature specified in section 83 of the Act, 
such as averted collisions, technical accidents , or breaches of block rules , shall 
be forwarded to the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety for the section 
of the railway on which the accident occurred . 


Duties of Magistrates 


23 . Magisterial inquiry Whenever an accident, such as is described in section 
83 of the Act, has occurred in the course of working a railway , the District Magis 
tratę or any other Magistrate who may be appointed in this behalf by the State 
Government, may , either 

(a ) himself make an inquiry into the causes which led to the accident ; or 
( b ) depute a subordinate Magistrate , who, if possible , should be a Magis 

trate of the first class , to make such an inquiry ; or 
( c ) direct investigation into the causes which led to the accident, to be 

made by the police : 
Provided that where, having regard to the nature of the accident, the 

Central Government has appointed a Commission of Inquiry to 
inquire into it under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 ( 60 of 
1952 ) , or has appointed any other authority to inquire into it and 
for that purpose has made all or any of the provisions of the said 
Act applicable to that authority , a Magistrate or a police officer shall 
not make his inquiry or investigation under this rule and , where he 
has already commenced his inquiry or investigation , shall not proceed 
further with it ; and such Magistrate or police officer shall hand over 
the evidence , records or other documents in his possession relating 
to the inquiry or investigation to such authority as may be specified 
by the Central Government in this behalf. 


24. Notice of magisterlal inquiry . - ( 1 ) Whenever it is decided to make an 
inquiry under clause ( a ) or clause (b ) of rule 23, the District Magistrate or other 
Magistrate appointed as aforesaid or the Magistrate deputed under clause (b ) of 
rule 23, as the case may be, shall at once advise the Additional Commissioner of 
Railway Safety, the Head of the Railway Administration concerned and the Divi 
sional Superintendent or the District Traffic Superintendent concerned, by tele 
graph , of the date and hour at which the inquiry will commence so as to enable 
the railway administration to summon the requisite expert evidence . Alter 
sending such advice , he shall proceed to the scene of the accident and conduct 
the inquiry there, 


746 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


[PART II 


( 2 ) District Magistrate or his representative to attend the Inquiry conducted 
by Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety Where no inquiry 1s being made 
under clause ( a ) or ( b ) of rule 23 and the Additional Commissioner of Railway 
Safety decides to make an inquiry under rule 8 , the District Magistrate shall, as 
far as possible , attend guch inquiry personally or depute some other officer to 
represent him at the Inquiry . 


25 . Judicial inquiry.-- A Magistrate , making an inquiry under rule 23 , may 
summon any railway servant, and any other person whose presence he may 
think necessary , and, after taking the evidence and completing the inquiry , shall , 
if he considers there are sufficient grounds for holding a judicial inquiry , take 
the requisite steps for bringing to trial any person whom he may consider to be 
criminally llable for the accident. Whenever technical points are involved , the 
Magistrate shall call for the opinion of the Additional Commissioner of Railway 
Safety or other professional persons. 


26 . The result of magisterial inquiry to be communicated to the Head of the 
Railway Administration . The result of every inquiry or investigation made under 
rule 23 shall be communicated by the Magistrate who has held such inquiry or 
Investigation , to the Head of the Rallway Administration concerned and to the 
Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety. 


27 . Procedure for summoning the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety 
and railway servants to assist the Magistrate holding judicial inquiry ( 1 ) It, in 
the course of any judicial inquiry into an accident occurring in the course of 
working a railway , the Magistrate holding such inquiry desires the assistance of 
the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety or of the Head of the Railway 
Administration concerned , or the attendance of any officer of the railway to 
explain any matter relating to railway supervision , management or working. he 
shall issue a requisition to the Commissioner of Railway Safety or the Head of 
the Railway Administration concerned , as the case may be , for the attendance 
in the court , of the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety or other railway 
officer competent to explain such matter , stating at the same time the nature of 
the assistance required . In summoning railway servants , the Magistrate shall 
take care not to summon on the same day so large a number of the employees , 
especially of one class, as to cause inconvenience to the working of the railway 
In the case of very serious accidents it will generally be advisable for the Magis 
trate to obtain reports from both the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety 
and the Head of the Railway Administration concerned in regard to the accident, 
before finally concluding the judicial inquiry . 


( 2 ) The Magistrate conducting the judicial inquiry shall, as far as possible , 
avoid summoning the Additional Commigsioner of Hallway Safety , if in the report 
submitted under rule 10 , the opinion of the said Additional Commissioner on 
technical matters which required explanation has already been expressed . 


28 . Communication of the decision of judicial inquiry to the Railway Adminis 
tration , Additional Commissioner of Rallway Safety and the State Government. 
On the conclusion of the judicial inquiry the Magistrate shall send a copy of his 
decision to the Head of the Railway Administration concerned and to the Addi 
tional Commissioner of Railway Safety , and shall, unless in any case he thinks 
it unnecessary to do so , report the result of the inquiry to the State Government. 


Duties of Police 


29 . Police Investigation — when to be dispensed with . - - ( 1 ) The Railway Police 
may make an investigation into the causes which led to any accident occurring 
in the course of working a railway and shall do so 
( a ) whenever any such accident is attended with loss of human life or with 

grievous hurt as defined in the Indian Penal Code, or with serious 
damage to railway property of the value exceeding Rs. 60 ,000 , or 

has prima facie been due to any criminal act or omission ; or 
( b ) whenever the District Magistrate or the Magistrate appointed under 

rule 23 has given a direction under clause ( c ) of that rule : 
Provided that no such investigation shall be made when an Inquiry has 

been commenced or ordered under clause ( a ) or clause ( b ) of rule 23 : 


SEC , 3 (1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 / VAISAKHA 8 , 1888 2407 
S - = - = - - = = = 

- - - 

- 

- - - - - 
Provided further that where , having regard to the nature of the accident, 

the Central Government has appointed a Commission of Inquiry to 
inquire into it under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 (60 of 
1952 ) , or has appointed any other authority to inquire into it and 
for that purpose has made all or any of the provisions of the said 
Act applicable to that authority , the Railway Police shall not make 
an Investigation under this rule, and, where they have already com 
menced their investigation , shall not proceed further with it ; and 
shall hand over the records or other documents in their possession 
relating to the investigation to such authority , as may be specified 
by the Central Government in this behalf. 


( 2 ) Railway Police to report every accident involving loss of ufe or grlevous 
hurt or serious damage to railway property . The Railway Police shall report, 
with as little delay as possible to the nearest station master or , where there is no 
station master , to the railway servant in charge of the section of the railway on 
which the accident has occurred , every accident which may come to their notice 
occurring in the course of working a railway attended with loss of human life , or 
with grievous hurt as defined in the Indian Penal Code, or with serious damage 
to railway property of the value exceeding Rs. 50, 000 , or which has prima facie 
been due to any criminal act or omission . 


30 . Status of police officer investigating the accident. - ( 1 ) Whenever on in . 
vestigation is to be made by the Railway Policca 
( n ) in a case in which an accident is attended with loss of human life or 

with grievous hurt as defined in the Indian Penal Code , or with 
serious damage to railway property of the value exceeding Rs. 50 ,000 ; 


or 


(b ) in pursuance of a direction given under clause ( c ) of rule 23 , 
the investigation shall be conducted by head of the Railway Police of the 

area in which the accident has occurred , or if that officer is unable 
to conduct the investigation himself, by an officer to be deputed 
by him . 


( 2 ) The officer deputed under sub - rule ( 1 ) shall ordinarily be the senior officer 
available , and shall whenever possible be a Gazetted Officer , and shall in no case 
be of rank lower than that of an Inspector : 


Provided that the investigation may be carried out by an officer - in - charge of 
a police station 
(i ) in a case such as is referred to in clause ( a ) of sub - rule ( 1 ) , if no loss 

of life or grlevous hurt has been caused to more persons than one or 
no damage to railway property of value exceeding Rs. 50 , 000, has 
been caused or there is no reason to suspect that any servant of the 
railway has been guilty of neglect of any rule relating to the working 

of the railway ; or 
(11) In the case referred to in clause (b ) of sub -rule ( 1 ) , if the District 

Magistrate so directs . 


31. Notice of police investigation . The Officer who is to conduct an investiga 
tion in pursuance of rule 30 shall at once advise the Head of the Railway Admin 
istration concerned and the Divisional Superintendent or District Traffic Superin 
tendent by telegraph of the date and hour at which the investigation will com 
mence so that, if possible , the presence of a railway official may be arranged for 
to watch the proceedings and to aid the officer making the Investigation . After 
sending such advice , he shall proceed without delay to the scene of the accident 
and conduct the investigation there . The absence of a railway official shall not , 
however , be allowed to delay the investigation which shall be conducted as soon 
as possible after the accident has taken place. 


32 . Assistance by the District police. - ( 1 ) In every case to which rule 30 
applies , immediate information shall be given by the Railway Police of the area 
to the District Police, who, if so required , shall afford all necessary assistance and 
shall , if occasion arises , carry the investigation beyond the limits of the railway 
premises But the Railway Police of the area shall primarily be responsible for 
carrying on the investigation within such limits . 


748 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


PART II 


( 2 ) Subject to the provisions contained in these rules , the further prosecution 
of the case , on the conclusion of the police investigation , shall rest with the 
Railway Police. 

33 , Communication of the result of police investigation -- The result of every 
police investigation shall be reported at once to the District Magistrate or other 
officer appointed in this behalt by the State Government, to the Head of the Rail 
way Administration concerned or other officer appointed by him , and to the 
Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety . 


34 . District Polloe to discharge duties of Railway Police . - Where there are no 
Rallway Police in the area , the duties imposed by rules 29 , 30 and 31, sub -rule 
( 2 ) of rule 32 , and rule 33 on the Railway Police of the area , or on the head of 
such Railway Police , shall be discharged by the District Police or by the District 
Superintendent of Police , as the case may be. 

35. District Superintendent of Polico or his representative to attend the inquiry 
oonducted by Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety - Where an inquiry is 
being held by the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety under rule 8 , the 
District Superintendent of Police shall, as far as possible, attend such inquiry 
personally or depute some other officer to represent him at such inquiry . 

[No. 59 - TTV /42 / 1. ] 
New Delhi, the 12th April 1986 
G .8 .R . 588 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Indian 
Railways Act, 1890 ( 9 of 1890 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the fol 
lowing rules further to amend the Railways Red Tariff Rules , 1960, namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Railways Red Tariff ( Second Amendment) 
Rules, 1968 . 
2. In the Railways Red Tariff Rules , 1960 -- 
( 1) in Table I, at the end of Chapter I, 
( 1) under " Clasg 3, Nitro compounds , Division 1," 
( a ) before the item " Balliştite " in column 1 and the entries relating 

thereto , the following item and entries shall be inserted , namely : 


3 


4 


5 


“ Ajax •G 


155-B 


- 


- AQ 


(b ) after the item "Unisax ” in column 1 and the entries relating there 

to , the following item and entries shall be inserted , namely : 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


« Viking G 


155- B 


– -- AQ 


( l ) under " Division 2 of Class 6 , Ammunition " , against the entry " Deto 

nating Fuze" in Column 1, the following shall be inserted in 

column 7 thereof, namely : 
"may be permitted for carriage in the rear brake van of passenger , mix 

ed or parcel train subject to the following conditions : 
( a ) one reel containing Detonating Fuze not exceeding 250 metres 

in length is packed in a wooden case lined with corrugated 

paper board ; 
( b ) not more than one package of Detonating Fuze packed as above 

is carried by any one train ; and 
( c ) no detonators are carried in the same carriage." ; 


Sec . 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1966 /VAISAKHA S, 1888 


249 


(2 ) In Chapter VI, for rules 607 3 and 607 4, the following shall be substi 

tuted , namely : 
" 607. 3 . Carboys, containing acids and other corrosives . - ( 1 ) Except as 

otherwise provided in column 3 of Table VI, Carboys , containing 
acids and other corrosives , must be packed securely in Iron , wooden 

or wickerwork crates . 
There must be a minimum thickness of 2 -54 cm , of straw packing between 

the carboy and the crate . 
The straw packing in the carboy crate, when handed over to the Rallway 

Administration , must be sufficiently damp to prevent fire. 
( 2 ) All carboys shall be closed liquidtight and provided with a well 

fitting stopper which must be well luted . 
( 3 ) The necks of the carboys shall be exposed . 
607 4 Inside packing. - Except as otherwise provided in column 3 of Table 

VI, the inside packing of cases or crates shall not contain any solid 
matter or hard substance,” 

[No. 65 - TGII / 21 / 3. ] 


P . C . MATHEW , Secy., 

Railway Board . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 7th April 1968 
G . S . R . 889 . - - In exercise or the powers conferred by he proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules to further 
amend the Indian Foreign Service (Pay , leaye, compensatory allowances and other 
conditions of service ) Rules , 1961, namely : 

1 . These rules may be called the Indian Foreign Service ( Pay , leave, compensa 
tory allowances and other conditions of service ) Amendment Rules, 1966 . 

2 . In the Indian Foreign Service ( Pay, leave, compensatory allowances and 
other conditions of service ) Rules , 1961 : 

( a ) in sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 4 
( 1) Item 5 shall be omitted and shall be deemed to have been omitted with 

effect from the 1st Day of April , 1965 ; 
( ii ) for items 4 , 6 and 7 , the following items shall be substituted and 

shall be deemed to have been substituted with effect from the 1st 

day of September , 1965, namely : 
" 4 . Grade IV Rs. 2500 - 125 / 2 - 2750 
5. Grade II Rs. 3000 

6 . Grade I Rs. 3500 " . 
( iii ) In the Note for the words and figures " Grade III and IV consist " the 

words and figures "Grade IV consists " shall be substituted and shall 
be deemed to have been substituted with effect from the 1st day 

of April, 1965 . 
(b ) in Appendix II, for items 1 , 2 and 3 , the following items and the Notes 

shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted 

with effect from the 1st day of September , 1965 , namely 
" 1. Secretary to the Government of India 

Rs. 3500 
2 . Additional Secretary to the Government of India Rs. 3000 
3. Joint Secretary to the Government of India Rs. 2500 -125 / 2 - 2750 
NOTE ( 1 ) , - The first increment in the scale of pay of Rs. 2500 - 125 / 2 - 2750 on 

completion of two years service shall not be automatic but shall be 
granted only to officers of proved efficiency after a positive assegg 
ment has been made in each case of the performance of the oficer . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 20 , 1968 /VAESAKHA 3, 1888 


(PART II 


NOTE ( 2 ) . - - An officer who was holding on 1st September , 1965 , a post of 

Joint Secretary to the Government of India or Grade IV post in the 
Indian Foreign Service or an equivalent post shall be allowed the 
first increment in the revised scale of Rs. 2500 - 125 / 2 - 2750 , raising his 
pay to Rs. 2625 on 1st September, 1966 or on completion of two years 
service in the posts mentioned above , whichever is later, subject to 
the assessment in Note ( 1 ) above " . 

[No. 25 /GA /86 / Q (GA ) 791 /15 /65.] 

A . MADHAVAN , Dy . Secy . 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 11th April 1966 
G .S . R . 590.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Khadi 
and Village Industries Commission Act, 1956 (61 of 1956 ), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Khadl and Village Indus. 
tries Commission Rules , 1957, namely : 


1. These rules may be called the Khadi and 
(Amendment) Rules , 1966 . 


Village 


Industries Commission 


2 . In the Khadi and Village Industries Commission Rules , 1957, after Chapter 
V , the following Chapter shall be inserted , namely : 


" CHAPTER VA . — Recovery of Monies due to the Commission , 


25A . Notice of proposal for recovery of monies due 08 arrears of land 
revenue, - ( 1 ) Where any sum is payable to the Commission under any agreement, 
cxpress or implied , or otherwise howsoever , the Commission may cause a notice 
to be served on the person Lable to pay the sum directing him to pay the sum 
stated therein , 


( 2 ) Where the person on whom a notice is served under sub - rule ( 1) disputes 
his liability to pay the sum stated in the notice, he may , within thirty days of the 
receipt of the notice, make a representation to that effect to the Commission . 


( 3 ) If, within the period referred to in sub -rule ( 2 ), the person on whom a 
notice is served under sub - rule ( 1) neither pays the sum stated in the notice nor 
make a representation to the Commission under sub -rule ( 2 ), the Commission may 
request the Collector within whose jurisdiction its office is situated to take such 
action as may be necessary for recovering the sum as arrears of land revenue . 


(4 ) Il in the course of proceedings taken agalnst a person for recovery of any 
sui requested to be recovered under sub - rule ( 3 ) , such person denies his liability 
to pay the sum or any part thereof , the authority before whom such proceedings 
are pending shall forthwith send a notice of such denial to the Commission , 


25B . Request for constitution of a Tribunal under section 19B and for reference 
of question is to dental of liability to such Tribunal. - - ( 1 ) On receipt of a repre 
sentation under sub - rule ( 2 ) , or a notice under sub - rule ( 4 ) , of rule 25A , " the 
Commission shall forward a copy of such representation or, as the case may be of 
the notice to the Central Government with a request that a Tribunal may be 
constituted for determining the question as to denial of liability to pay to the 
Commission made in such representation or referred to in such notice . 


( 2 ) On receipt of a request under sub - rule ( 1 ), the Central Government may 
constitute a Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of section 19B of the Act 
and refer the question mentioned in such request to the Tribunal for decision , 


( 3 ) The Tribunal so constituted shall, after making such Inquiry as it may deer 
fit and after giving to the person denying llabillty and the Commission a reasonable 
opportunity of being heard and after considering such evidence as may be produced 
by such person and the Commission , decide the question whether , and if so , what 
sum is payable by such person to the Commission . 


SEC. (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25, 1966 /VAISAKHA %, 1888 


751 


= 


(4 ) A copy of the decision of the Tribunal shall , 
( a ) where it is in respect of a representation made under sub - rule ( 2 ) of 

rule 25A , be forwarded to the Commission and if the decision declares 
any sum as payable to the Commission , the Commission may take 

action for having the sum recovered as an arrear of land revenue ; 
(b ) where it is in respect of denial of liability referred to in a notice under 

sub - rule (4 ) of rule 25A , bę forwarded to the authority by whom guch 
notice was issued, for disposal of the proceedings concerned in accord 
ance with such decision . 

[No. F . 4 / 4 / 61-KVE (P ).] 
P. SITARAMAN , Dy . Secy . 


New Delhi, the 12th April 1966 
G . S . R . 591. - In excrcise of the powers conferred by Section 22 of the Textiles 
Committee Act , 1963 (41 of 1963 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules to amend the Textiles Committee Rules, 1965, the same having been 
previously published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section , namely : 
1. These rules may be called the Textiles Committee (Second Amendment) 

Rules, 1986 . 
2 . In rule 28 of the Textiles Committee Rules, 1965, for the words " The 

Solicitor General of India or any person nominated by him to act 
on his behalt" . the words " a Solicitor approved by the Committee" 
shall be substituted. 

[No. 25 (12 )- Tex ( A )/ 65. ] 
T. S . KUNCHITHAPATHAM , Dy . Secy. 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 


(Department of Petroleum ) 

New Delhi, the 14th April 1966 
G . S . R . 592 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following Order to amend the Petroleum Products (Supply and Distribution ) 
Order, 1986 , namely : 

1, This Order may be called the Petroleum Products ( Supply and Distribution ) 
Amendment Order , 1966 . 

2 . In the Petroleum Products (Supply and Distribution ) Order , 1966, in sub 
paragraph ( 2 ) of paragraph 3 , for the Second proviso , the following proviso shall 
be substituted, namely : 
" Provided further that the State Government may, within the local limits 

of the State and — 
( a ) in such cases as the Central Government may by general or special 

order specify , without the previous approval of the Central Govern 

ment; and 
( b ) in all other cases , with the previous approval of the Central Govern 

ment, at any time issue such directions to the officer - in - charge of 
a depot or a main port Installation as may be necessary for the 
equitable distribution of such petroleum product or products." 


[No. F . 31 ( 2 ) / 66 - 10C . ] 
P , P . GUPTA , Under Secy . 


752 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1966 / VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


[PART JI 


MINISTRY OF MINES & METALS 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1968 
G . S .R . 593 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules to amend the 
Coal Controller s Organisation (Class I Posts ) Recruitment Rules, 1964 , namely : 

1. ( 1) These rules may be called the Coal Controller s Organisation (Class I 
Posts) Recruitment (Amendment) Rules, 1986 . 

(2 ) They shall come into force on the date of the publication in the Official 
Gazette . 

2 . In the Schedule to the Coal Controller s Organisation (Class I Posts ) Recruit 
ment Rules , 1984 , in the entries against Item 5 relating to the post cf Joint Deputy 
Coal Controller (Coordination ) , in column 11 , for the words and brackets " Assistant 
Coal Controller ; Assistant Coal Controller ( Statistics ) and” the words " Assistant 
Coal Controller or" shall be substituted . 

[No. C4 -40 (49) /65 .] 
G . J. MISRA , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND AVIATION 
( Department of Transport Shipping and Tourism ) 

( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 15th April 1966 
G . S . R . 594 . - In pursuance of Section 11 read with sub - section l of section 3 
of the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963 ( 38 of 1963 ) , the names of the following persons 
who have been appointed as Trustees for the Port of Cochin , are hereby publish 
ed for general information : 

1. Shri G . S . Dhara Singh 
2 . Shri A . A . Kochunny 

Representatives of labour. 

[No . 6 - PG ( 3 )/ 66.] 
R . RANGARAJAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD . AGRICULTURE , COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

COOPERATION 
(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 12th April 1966 
G . S . R . 595 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Recruitment to Technical Non 
gazetted Class II and III Posts ) Rules , 1959, namely : 

1 . These rules may be called the Ministry of Food and Agriculture ( Recruit. 
ment to Technical Non -gazetted Class II and III Posts ) Amendment Rules, 1966 . 

2 . In the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Recruitment to Technical Non 
gazetted Class II and Ill Posts ) Rules , 1959. 

( i) after rule 5 , the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" 6 . Power to relax , - -Where the Central Government is of opinion that it 

is necessary or expedient so to do , it may, for reasons to be record 
ed in writing , by order relax any of the provisions of these rules 

with respect to any class or category of persons / posts ; 
Provided that the Union Public Service Commission shall be consulted in 

respect of relaxation for appointment to Class II posts ." 


Sec . 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


753 


( 11) In the Schedule, 
( a ) under the heading " Class II Non -Gazetted Posts" after item 10 and 

the entries relating thereto , the following items and entries shall be 
Inserted , namely 


754 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25 , 1966 / VAISAKHA %, 1888 


[PART II 


11 Senjor 

Technical 
Assistant 
( Livestock ) 


4 General 

Central 
Service 
Class II ; 
Non -Gazet 
ted Non 
Ministeria ). 


Rs. 325 - 15 Selection Below 35 
475 - EB 

years . 
20 -575 

(Relex 
able for 
Govt. 
servants ). 


Essential : 
(i) A degree in 
Animal Husban 
dry or Veteri 
nary Science from 
a recogndged 
University of 

equivalent. 
( ii ) About 2 ycars 

experience of 
research /livestock 
development work . 


(Quallfications 
relaxable at Comm 
ission s 

dis 
cretion in case of 
candidates other 
wise well qualified ). 


Onc 


12 . Senior 

Drafts 
man 
(Slaughter 
House ) . 


Onc General 

Central 
gervice 
Class II ; 

Non 
Gazetted ; 
Non 
Ministerial 


Rs. 450 - 25 - Selection 35 years 
575 

and below 
(Relaxable 
for Govt . 
servants ) . 


Essential : 
(i) Diploma 
Draftsmanship of 

recognised 
Unſversity / 
Institute , ( г 
equivalent. 


(11) Adequate ex 
perience 

in 
the preparation 
of designs, 
specifications, 
cstimates , details , 
of equipment and 
inachinery with 
technical notes 
preferably in a 
Government or 
Semi-Government 

Department. 
(Qualifications 

relaxable at Com 
mission s dis 
cretion in case , 
of candidates 
otherwise well 
qualificd ), 


Src . 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1966 /VAISAKHA ), 1888 


755 


10 


12 


12 


13 


No. 


Two years 


Class II 
D . P . C . 


50 % promo 
tion , 50 % 
direct recruit 
mcnt. 


As required 
under the rules. 


Promotion : 

Technical 
Assistant 
(Livestock ) 
with 3 years 
service in the 
grade after 
completion 
of probation , 


No. 


2 years. 


As required 
under the 

rules . " 


Promotion 
failing which 
by transfer on 
deputation and 
failing both 
by direct re 
cruitment. 


Promotion : Class II 

D . P . C . 
Dairy Drafts 
man with four 
years service in 
the grade. 
Transfer on 
Deputation : 
Suitable persons 
in C . P . W . D . 
(Period of deputation : 
3 years ). 


(b ) under the heading " Class III Non -Gazetted Posts" below the exist . 

ing entry in column 10 against the post of Junior Accountant 
( Fertiliser ) , the following note shall be inserted , namely : 


" NOTE . - The persons recruited prior to the date of promulgation of 

these rules shall be eligible for confirmation in the grade in order 
of their seniority in the grade." 


[No. 3 -42 /65- E . IV. ] 
J. N . KAUL , Under Secy . 


750 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


PART II 


-2. 196/VALBARHA O, 1989 "Par un 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 

( P . & T . Board ) 

New Delhi, the 7th April 1966 
G . S . R . 596 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Indian 
Post Office Act, 1898 (6 of 1898) . the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules further to amend the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, namely : 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Indian Post Office (Fourth Amendment) 
Rules , 1986. 

(2:) They shall come into force on the 1st day of May , 1966 . 
2 . In rule 5 of the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, after the heading " Sample 
Packets " and entries thereunder , the following heading and the entries thereunder 
shall be inserted , namely : 

" Small Packets 
For a welght not exceeding Afty grams. 

Twenty palse 
For every additional fifty grams or fraction thereof. Twenty paise : 
Provided that the charge for a Small Packet shall in no case be less than 
eighty paise " . 

(No. 1 -7 / 66 - R .] 
New Delhi, the 18th April 1966 
G . S . R . 597, - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Indian 
Post Office Act, 1898 ( 8 of 1898 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules further to amend the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933 , namely : 

1. ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Indian Post Once (Sixth Amendment) 
Rules, 1966 . 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the 1st day of May, 1966 . 
2. In the Post Omce Rules, 1933 , 
( 1) in rule 50 - A ,- - 
(i) in sub -rule (1) 
( a ) for the words " Thirty Five Naye Paise " , the words " Fifty Paise " shall 

be substituted ; 
( b ) in the second proviso , for the words Rupees Seven and Seventy 

Palse" , the words " Rupees Fifteen " shall be substituted ; 
(ii ) in the proviso to sub - rule ( 2 ), for the words " Rupees Seven and Seventy 

Paise " , the words " Rupees Fifteen " shall be substituted ; 
( 2 ) in rule 50 - B , for the figures and word " 35 paise " , wherever they occur, 
the words " Fifty Paise " shall be substituted . 
( 3 ) In rule 107, 
(1) in sub -rule (I) — 
( a ) for the figures and word " 35 palse” , the words " Fifty Paise " shall be 

substituted ; 
(b ) after the first proviso , the following further proviso shall be added , 

namely : 
" Provided also that the charge shall in no case exceed Rupees Fifteen." ; 
( ii ) in the proviso to sub - rule ( 2 ) , for the words " rupees seven and seventy 

paise " , the words “ Rupees Fifteen " shall be substituted ; 
( 4 ) in rule 107A , for the figures and word “ 35 paise " , wherever they occur, the 
words " Fifty Palse " shall be substituted . 

[No. 1 -21/ 86 - R .] 

D . R . NARANG , 
Asstt, Director -General (Rates ) . 


Sca . 801)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


757 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1966 
G . S . R . 598 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso ta article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules for regulating 
the recruitment to Class IV posts in the Office of the Registrar of Newspapers for 
India , New Delhi, namely : 


1. Short title . These rules may be called the Office of the Registrar of News 
papers for India ( Class IV posts ) Recruitment Rules, 1966. 

2 . Application . — These rules shall apply to the posts specified in Column 2 of 
the Schedule annexed hereto . 

3 . Classification and scale of pay. The classification of the posts and the 
scales of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in columns 3 and 4 of the gald 
Schedule . 

4 . Age Hmit , qualifications, method of recruitment etc . The method of re 
cruitment, age limits , qualifications and matters relating to the posts shall be as 
specifled in columns 5 to 12 of the aforesaid Schedule : 
(i) Provided that the upper age limits specified in column 9 of the said 

Schedule may be relaxed in the case of candidates belonging to the 
Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of 
persons in accordance with the general orders issued by the Central 

Government from time to time; 
( 11) Provided further that the educational and other qualifications specified 

in columns 10, 11 and 12 of the said Schedule may be relaxed by the 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting at their discretion in the 
case of a candidate considered otherwise suitable for appointment to 

a post specified in column 2 of the aforesaid Schedule ; 
( ili) Provided also that the posts required to be Alled by promotion or 

transfer may be Alled by direct recruitment, if no suitable candidate 
is available for appointment thereto by promotion or transfer , as the 

case may be. 
5 . Power to relax , Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is 
necessary or expedient to do so , it may, by order , for reasons to be recorded in 
writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or 
category of persons. 

6 . Probation . All persons appointed whether by direct recruitment or other 
wise to the posts specified in column 2 of the aforesaid Schedule , shall be on 
probation for a period of six months which may be extended at the discretion ci 
the appointing authority . 
7 . Disqualifications: 
( a ) No person who has more than one wife living or who , having a spouse 

llving marries in any case in which such marriage is void by reason 
of its taking place , during the life time of such spouse , shall be 

eligible for appointment to the gaid post ; and 
( b ) No woman whose marriage is vold by reason of the husband having a 

wife living at the time of such marriage or who has married & 
person who has a wife llving at the time of such marriage , shall be 

eligible for appointment to the said post ; 
Provided that the Central Government may, it satisfied that there are 

special grounds for so ordering , exempt any person from the opera 
tion of this rule . 


SCHEDULE 


758 


Particulars of the post 

Method of recruitment and percentage of Qualifications etc. for direct Qualifications etc., for recruit 
- vacancies to be filled by : 

recruitment 

ment by promotion transfer 
Serial Name of Classifica - Scale 
No . the post tion chara - of pay Direct rec - Promotion 

Age limits Educational and Whether age and edu - Grades /sources 
cter and of the post ruitment - 

Transfer 

other qualifications cational qualifications from which 
status of Selection Seniority 

required for direct 

promotion 
the post Cwm - fitness 

recruitment 

transfer is to 
will apply 

be made 
in the case 
of recruitment 
by promo 
tion , trans 
fer 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


II 


I 2 


Nil 


Ni 


I Daftry . Class IV 

Non 
Gazetted 


100 % 


Rs. 
75 - I 
85 - EB 


.. 


. . 


No. 


. . 


By promotion 
of peons in 

the office 
of the Regist 
ra of News 
papers for 
India with 3 
years Service 

in that grade 
Not applicable 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA: 
APRIL28,1966/ 
VAISAKHA9, 
1888 


Ni 


Ni 


N1 


Below 

25 years 


Middle School pass Not applica- 


ble 


2 Peon Class IV 

Non - 

Gazetted 
3 Chowkidars Class IV 

Non - 
Gazetted 


Rs. 100 % 
701 
80 - - EB 
1485 
Rs. 100 % 
70 - 1 - 80 
E . B . -- I -- 85 


NI 


N 


1 


N1 


Below 
25 years 


Not applicable 


Should have ex - Not applicable 
perience of war 
king as a watch 
man in a com 
mercial concern , 
a local body 
or a Gora 
ment Office 
for at least six 
months, Prefe 


[ 
PARTII 


Sec,3(1)] 


rence will be 
given to Ex 
Army and Ex 
Police person 

nel 
(H ) Should possess 

good physique 
Experience of wor - Not applicable Not applicable 
king as Sweeper 
in a commercial 
concern or a Goy 
ernment 
or a local body. 


4 Sweeper 


100 % 


Nil 


Nil 


Nil 


Class IV Rs. 
Non - 70 — 1 — 80 
Gazetted EB - 1485 


Below 
Below 
25 years 


[No. F. 16 /20/63-1(A )/RNI/RR /Class IV /64 ] 

A V . NARAYANAN , 

Under Secretary . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL28,1966/VAISAKHA8,1888 


756 


760 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1968 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


[PART II.-- 


New Delhi, the 14th April 1968 
G . S . R 599 , -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
8C of the Press and Registration of Books Act, 1884 , as amended , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri A , Mitra , Secretary to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, as Chairman of the Presg and Registra 
tion Appellate Board vice Shri A . N . Jha resigned . 

[No. 5 / 1 / 66 - P & PC. ] 
R K . GOVIL , Under Secy , 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 
(Office of the Controller of Capital Issues ) 

New Delhi, the 29th March 1966 


G . S . R , 600 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Capital 
Issues (Control) Act , 1947 ( 29 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby makes 
the following rules , namely : — 

1. Short title and commencement.-- ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Capital 
Issues (Application for Consent) Rules, 1966 . 

(2 ) They shall come into force on 1st April, 1988 . 
2 . Definition . In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires " Act" 
means the Capital Issues (Control) Act, 1947 ( 29 of 1947 ) . 

3. Application for issue of capital. — All applications for the issue of capital 
under the Act, other than the securities exempted from the provisions of sections 
3 , 4 and 5 of the Act by the Capital Issue ( Exemption ) Order, 1961, shall be 
made, in quadruplicate, to the Controller of Capital Issues, Ministry of Finance 
Department of Economic Affairs, New Delhi, in conformity with the requirements 
laid down in the questionnaire specified in the Schedule annexed to these rules . 


4 . Fee payablo on application. - - Every application under these rules shall be 
accompanied by a treasury receipt for Afty rupees which shall, at Bombay , Cal 
cutta , Delhi, Madras and Bangalore , be deposited in the Reserve Bank of India 
and at other places in the nearest Government Treasury or in the nearest Branch 
or any agency of the Reserve Bank . The amount shall be credited to the head of 
account " LII -Miscellaneous Miscellaneous -Receipts towards issue of Capital under 
the Capital issues (Control) Act, 1947" . 

5 . Contents of application . - An application under these rules shall include a 
request asking for : - 


( i) the consent of the Central Government to the issue of capital under the 

provisions of the Act; 
( ii) any alteration in the terms and conditions of a consent previously 

given by the Central Government or any extension of the period of 
validity for which such consent was given ; 


( iii) the regularisation of the issue of any capital made without the prior 

consent of the Central Government, and 


( iv ) the consent of the Central Government under the Act in respect of any 

matter not specifically mentioned in any of the foregoing clause of 
this rule . 


6 . Application to be entertained only on payment of fee .- - NO application 
under these rules shall be entertained unless it is accompanled by sufficient proof 
of the payment of the fee mentioned in rule 4 . 


7. Repeal, — The Capital Issues ( Application for consent) Rules , 1954, shall , as 
from the commencement of these rules, cease to be in force except as respects 
things done or omitted to be done thereunder. 


Stc (1) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


761 


SCHEDULE 


CONTROL OF CAPITAL ISSUES 


CAPITAL ISSUES (CONTROL ) ACT , 1947 


Application for consent to the issue of capital by companies should be address 
ed to the Controller of Capital Issues , Ministry of Finance , Government of India , 
New Delhi and should be made in the form of a letter which should include an 
swers to the questions shown below , as far as they are applicable . 


NOTE — (1 ) The answers should follow the order of these questions and the 
short title of each question should be quoted against the corresponding answer. 
The answer should be so worded that the letter can be read independently of 
the form . The letter (with enclosures ) should be sent in quadruplicate . In the 
case of banking and insurance companies and bonus issues the letter may only 
be sent in duplicate . Only two copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Asso 
ciation ( one copy in the case of banking and insurance companies and bonus 
issues ) need be furnished as enclosures, 


Part A - General. 
1. Present or proposed name. 

If new company , name of promoters . 


2 . Date of incorporation . 


private company and whether it is 


3 . Corporate status whether public or 
Intended to alter the status. 


4. Whether Government or Non -Government company . 


6 . Place of Registration and location of Head Office, giving the complete 
addresses if different. 


6 . Present Business - Describe fully the company s present or proposed lines 
of business arcording to the location of its factories. (Mere reference to the 
obiectives stated in the Memorandum of Association will not he acceptable ) 
Enclose copy of the Memorandum and Articles of Asscciation with the applica 


tion . 


7. Previous applications. — Glve particulars under the headings as detailed 
below as a separate annexure of any application previously made to the Govern 
ment of India since 17th May. 1943, or to any former State Government in this 
connection by or on behalf of the same parties . 


( a ) Date of application , 
(b ) Number and date of consent order. 


( c ) Amount of consent showing sepaſately the amount consented against 

each security viz ., Equity shares , Preference sharcs, Debenture , 
Bonus shares, Loans etc, 


(d ) Indicate the capital subscribed and paid up against each consent. 
( e) If refused , number and date of refusa ). 


Part B Capital Structure as on date of Application , 


N . B . Enclose a copy of the latest audited balance sheet and profit and 

loss account with certifer translation in English if not in that 
language . 


762 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966 / VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


PART U 


LE 


Preference shares 


Equity shares 


No. of 
sbarcs 


Value per 

share 


Amount 


No. of 
shares 


Value per 
share 


Amount 


( I) Capital. 

( a ) Authorised . 
(b ) Issued . 
(c) Subscribed . 
(d ) Pald up . 
( e ) If any part of (b ), (c ) and (d ) had been raised under Exemption 

Order, give details . 
( 2 ) Glve particulars of preference shares under the following heads : 

(a ) Date of issue of preference shares. 
(b ) Rate of dividend and whether taxable or taxfree . 
( c ) Details as to the terms of redemption and date / dates of redemption , 

if any. 
( a ) Whether the preference shares are cumulative or non - cumulative . 

(Particulars are to be given for different series of preference shares 

and debenturcs separately ) . 
(9 ) Indicate outstanding debentures according to date of issue. rate of in 
terest, date of redemption, security etc . 

( 4 ) Indicate outstanding loans from Financial Institutions (other than Banks ) 
and Government Agencies etc . Give the details ( e . g ., amount, period , security , 
rate of interest) separately for each loan . 


( 5 ) If the shares are partly paid up shares indicate why the capital require 
ments cannot be met by further calls on shares . 

( 6 ) Indicate the total investments of the company and state the reasons for 
not using for the purpose in view any liquid or invested funds which may be, or 
become available as an alternative to issuing new securities , 

( 7 ) Indicate the equity and preference shares holding of the company as 
per details given below : 


Equity shares 
No . of share Amount 

holders 


Preference shares 

Amount 


( a ) Foreign company or com 

panies who jointly or several 
ly hold the majority of 

shares . 
(b ) Non - resident shareholders 

other than ( a ) above, ( en 
close a list of ( a ) and was a 
separate annexure ) , 


Star $ ( )) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


762 


( c ) Managing Agents or Score 

taries and Treasurers or 

Directors . 
( d ) Financial Institutions indicat 

ing the names . 
( e ) Central Government or 

State Government holdings. 
(1) Companies Registered under 

the companies Act , 
( g ) Others . 

TOTAL: — 
8 . Is the company directly or indirectly controlled by non residents. 

9 . State the number of equity shareholders holding 5 per cent or more of the 
equity capital of the company and the total equity capital held by such persona. 
Part C - Objects of Issue 

1. Indicate in detail the objects of this issue. In the case of insurance or 
Banking companies indicate why the existing facilities are inadequate, 

2. State if a licence is required under the Industries ( Development and Regu 
lations ) Act, 1951, for the proposed project. 

If so indicate the number and the date / s of the letter of Intent /licence / s 
against each product if granted to the company enclosing copy / copies thereof. IT 
the licence /s had expired state if this / these was /were duly extended . 

3 . The total cost of each project according to the location of the factory or 
line of business may be given under the following headings : 


Total 


Rupee 
Expenditure 


Foreign exchange 
expenditure 
(in rupees ) 


(a ) Land , 
(b ) Buildings. 
( c ) Plant and machinery . 
( d ) Equipment. 
( e ) Raw material. 
( f ) Preliminary and pre - incorpo 

ration expenses other than 
( g ) working capital. 
( a ) to (e ) . 

TOTAL : — 


4 . If the estimates as stated in paragraph 3 above differ from the estimates 
stated in an application already made under the Industries (Development and 
Regulation ) Act, 1951 for the issue of a licence , the difference may be explained . 


6 . If manufacture is according to a phased programme, give the requirement 
of capital (Rupee expenditure and Foreign Exchange requirements ) each year 
Hi the projectls) is / are completed . 


6 . If one of the objects of the issue is to repay a loan , state the purpose of 
the borrowing and whether consent was obtained for that borrowing . 


764 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1968 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


[PART 11 


7. If an existing concern or assets are to be acquired , give the name, location , 
ownership and the purchase price . Furnish a sct of balance sheets of vendor of 
the last five years , accompanied by a valuation report, by an independent authori 
ty, of the assets proposed to be acquiied , and justify amount charged for good 
will, if any . 
Part D - Sources of Finance and Foreign Collaboration . 

1 . How is / are the project / s proposed to be financed . Indicate detalls given 
below stating separately the source of financing in rupces and in foreign exchange. 

(a ) Capital already raised and expenditure incurred or set apart for the prom 
ject / s . 

(i) Retained earnings. 
(ü ) Capital raised under the Exemption Order . 


(Ill ) Capital raised against consent /s already given for the project. 
(b ) Capital expenditure to be met from the issue of Capital. 


No. of 
Sharcs 


Value 


Amount 


Premium on 
shares 
if any 


TUR 


(1) Equity shares . 
( 11 ) Preference shares. 
(iii) Debentures. 
( lv ) Miscellaneous issues of capital 

e .g . loans including P . L . 480 . 
( v ) Total amount of issue. 
(c ) Capital expenditure to be met otherwise than from the proposed issue : 

(1) Release of Investments or from further call on shares. 
( 11 ) Retained earnings of the company . 
(III ) Loans from holding company , Managing Agents , Directors or from the 

public. 
(lv ) Loans from banking institutiong. 
( v ) Loans from financial institutions indicating the names. 

(vi) Deferred payment arrangements , (enclosing a copy of the agreement) . 
2 . Indicate the issue to be made to Foreign collaborators and non - residents 
and foreign financial institutions stating the number of shares and the amount 
( in rupee currency ) of such issue as follows security - wise : 


( a ) Issues under any foreign collaboration agreement enclosing a copy 

thereof and the approval of the Government if it has been obtained . 
( b ) Issues to non - residents on Right basis . 


( c ) Issues to non - residents other than on Right basis. 


N . B .---With regard to ( a ) and (c ) above Indicate the names of parties , 

their status ( individuals or companies ) and nationality or countries. 


3. Give particulars of the extent and nature of any foreign collaboration in 
the form of consultation or technical assistance agreements . Indicate the agreed 
royalty payments and provision for training of the Indian technicians. 


SLC $ 


THË GAZETTE OË ÎNDİÀ : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


765 


Part E - Particulars of Issues . 

1 , Issue for consideration other thun Cash ; 

( a ) If the issue or part of tho issue is for consideration other than cash give 
complete details as to the ( i) type of security to be issued ( ii) consideration 
involved ( e .g . purchase of assets , technical services, know -how , preliminary and 
preincorporation expenses, goodwill etc ) the names of parties concerned and 
their present and proposed interest in the company . 


(b ) If the issue is to give effect to any merger or analgamation scheme give 
reasons for the merger or amalgamation and details of the amalgamating units 
in a separate annexure to this application as follows: 

(1 ) Lines of business ; ( ii ) Existing capital structure according to part " B " of 
this application ; ( iii ) Dividends of the company for the preceeding five years; ( iv ) 
Market quotation of the shares if quoteu ; ( v ) A copy of the valuation report 
Axing the rate of exchange of shares ; ( vi) copies of special resolutions passed by 
the companies in gcncral meetings ; ( vii ) copy of the scheme and of the oraer of 
a High Court, if any, approving the scheme and of a copy of the petition to A 
High Court ; ( viii ) A list of common shareholdings of the companies showing the 
interest of each in the companies, ( ix ) Copies of audited balance sheets and pro 
fits and loss accounts of the company making the issue and of amalgamating units 
for the preceding five years . 


2. Issue Price : 
( a ) Indicate whether the equity sharcs are to be issued at par or at a pre 

mium stating the issue price . The reasons for the issue of shares at 

a premium ( or at par il quoted at a premium ) may be stated . 
( b ) In the case of existing companies state: 
(i) the rate of which shares of the same class as that proposed to be 

issued have recently been transferred .. 
( ii) Is the security listed : the latest quotation of the share specifying the 

date and the name of the stock exchange : 
(lii ) dividends paid by the company for the preceeding five years, 
3 . Particulars of Preference Shares and Debentures : 


( a ) rate of dividend / interest and whether taxable or taxfree ; 
(b ) the terms and date (s) of redemption if any ; 
( c) whether preference shares are cumulative or non - cumulative; 
(d ) Indicate whether the debentures, preference shares are to be issued at 

par , premium or discount and the reasons therefor ; 
( e ) indicate the security to be offered in the case of debentures, 
4 . Bonus Shares : 

Ştate the reasons for the proposed capitalisation of profits or reserves. State 
whether reserves have been created out of genuine profits ( l e . profts actually 
earned by a company. Profits arising out of a revaluation of fixed assets are not 
to be taken into account) . 
6 . Particulars of Loans etc.: 
( a ) Describe in details instruments creating a charge or llen on the assets 

of the company or which acknowledge a loan or indebtedness of the 
company and are guaranteed by or entered into jointly with a third 
party . 


(b ) Exact amount of loan . 
(c ) Source ( s ) from which the loan will be raised . 
(d ) Terms on which the loan will be obtained e .g ., rate of interest , period 

how repayable etc ., nature of security . 


766 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRİL 29, 1960 / VAISAKHA ), 1888 


[PART 11 


6 . Allotments : 

Indicate the proposed allotments of equity and preference shares and deben 
tures stating the number of shares and the amount involved separately against 
the following headings: 

(a ) " Rights” issue. 
( b ) Firm allotments to : 

( i) Foreign collaborators. 
( 1 ) Other non -residents. 
( iii) Promoters , managing agents / secretaries and treasurers, directors and 

their friends and relations. 
(lv ) Financial institutions indicating the name of each institution , 
(v ) Centre /State Governments. 
( vi) Companies Registered under the Companies Act. 
( c ) Unşeserved offer to be made to the Public by prospectus ( enclose two 

copies of the draft thereof) . 
( d ) Indicate the timing of the offer at (a ) / (b ) / (c ) above. 
( e ) Indicate the manner in which the calls will be made on the shares til 

these are fully paid up . 
7. Underwriting and listing arrangements. 
( a ) If the issue by prospectus is to be underwritten indicate the parti 

culars under following headings : 
(1) Name/ s of the underwriters ( ii ) Proposed underwriting obligation 

(li ) Commission or Brokerage payable . 
(b ) State whether the company proposes to get its shares / debentures Usted 

on the Stock Exchange ( s ) . 
(c ) Indicate the interest, if any, of the promoters, directors etc., in the 

underwriting arrangements . 


Part F - Miscellaneous. 

1. Indicate the interest in the company of promoters , Directors, Managing 
Agents , Secretaries and Treasurers , Partners of Managing Agency if it is a firm , 
Directors of Managing Agency II it is a company , as under as a separate an 
nexure. 

(a ) Name, qualifications and address . 
( b ) Occupation and Nationality , 
( c ) Position or connection with the company as Chairman , Managing 

Director, Director, Promoter, Managing Agents , Partner of Managing 
Agency Arm , Director of the Managing Agency , Secretary or Trea 

surer . 
( d ) Equity or preference shares held or proposed to be held in the com 

pany . 
(c ) Extent of any existing interest or proposed interest other than (a ) 

above . 
( 1) Directorships, Managing Agency or Secretary or Treasurership held in 

other companies indicating their names . 
2 . State whether all the directors have agreed in writing to serye. Enclose a 
copy of the Managing Agency Agreement. 

3. The application may give here any further information in support of the 
request , e . g ., date regarding estimated profitability of the project and the rate of 
return on the capital employed . 
inclosures : 
(1) Treasury receipt for the application fee of Rs. 50 credited to " LII 

Miscellaneous - Miscellaneous. Receipts towards 13gue of Capital 
under the Capital Issues (Control) Act, 1947 . 


Sec. 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


767 


y of a letteregulation 
oration agreemeral 
Gover 


( 11) Two copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association . 
( ili ) Particulars of previous applications . 
( iv ) Latest audited balance sheet and Profit and Loss account and auditore 

report to the shareholders if an existing concern . 
(v ) List of existing non - resident shareholders. 
( vi ) Copy of a letter of Intent/Licence issued under the Industries (Develop 

ment and Regulation ) Act, 1951, if any . 
( vii ) Copy of foreign collaboration agreement, if any . 
( vili) Copy of the approval by the Central Government of the terms of 

foreign collaboration , if any , 
(1x ) Draft prospectus, ( two coples ) If issue is through a prospectus , 
( x ) Particulars of Directors, Promoters, Managing Agents etc. 
( xl ) Other documents, as required . 

(No. S . 7 ( 8 ) -CCI ( II) /66. ] 
M . K . VENKATACHALAM , 
Controller of Capital Issues. 


(Dopartment of Rovendo and Insurance ) 
MEDICINAL AND TOILET PREPARATIONS 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1968 
G . S . R . 601. — In pursuance of sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 60 of the Medicinal and Tollet 
Preparations ( Excise Duties) Rules , 1958 , the Central Government hereby dec 
lares that the new medicinal preparation specified in column ( 2 ) of the Table below 
shall be included in the category of preparations specified in the corresponding 
entry in column (3 ) of the said Table. 


TABLE 


Medicinal Preparations 


Category 


S . No. 

(1) 


ZOLA CORDIATON , manufactured by M /s . 
Pharmed Private Ltd ., Slon , Trombay Road , 
Chembur, Bombay 71. 


Allopathic - capable of being 
consumed an ordinary alcoholic 
beverage which does not contain 
known active ingredients in 
therapeutic quantities classifi. 
able under Item No. 1 (1 ) (b ) 
of the schedule to the Medicinal 
and Toilet Preparations (Excise 
Dutics ) Act, 1955 ( 16 of 1955 ). 


[No. F . 45 / 5 / ( 18 ) / 65 -Opium . ] 


CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1966 
G . S . R . 602. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 of 
the Central Excise Rules. 1944. and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance ( Department of Revenue and 
Company Law ) No . 175 / 64 - Central Excises, dated the 31st November , 1964 , the 
Central Government hereby exempts sulphuric acid [ falling under Item No. 14G 
of the First Schedule to the Central Excises and Salt Act , 1944 ( 1 of 1944 ) 1 used 
by a manufacturer for- - 

( a ) drying air in the air tower, 
(b ) demineralisation of water ( de -lonisation of water ), and 


768 THE GAZETTE . OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 / VAISAKHA 9, 1888 [PART II 

Z 
(c) generation of oxides of nitrogen for use as catalyst, 
in the manufacture of sulphuric acid within the factory of production from the 
whole of the duty of excise leviable thereon . 

[No. 59 / 66 - C .E ./ F . No. 6 / 2 /65-CX . VII.] 

BHARAT DAS , Under Secy . 


( Dopartment of Revenue and Insurance ) 

CENTRAL EXCISES 
New Delhi, the 23rd April 1988 


G . S . R . 603. - In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 12 - A of the Central 
Excise Rules , 1944, the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Finance Department of Revenue ) No. 62 /58 -Central Excises , dated the 21st June, 
1958 , namely : 

In the Table annexed to the said notification , Serial No. 3 and the entries 
relating thereto shall be omitted . 


DAYA SAGAR , Under Secy . 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1966 
G . S . R . 604 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 of 
the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue ) No. 44 / 02 - Central Excises, 
dated the 24th April, 1962, namely : 

In the said notification , for the letters , figures and words " No. 97 /65 -Central 
Excises, dated the 26th June , 1965" , the letters. figures and words " No. 29 / 66 
Central Excises dated the 1st March , 1966 " , shall he substituted and shall be 
deemed to have been substituted with cffect from the 1st March , 1966 . 

[No. 61 / 66 - C . E . / F . NO. 15 / 16 / 66 -CXI.] 

E . R . SRIKANTIA , Under Segy . 


( Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1966 
G .S .R . 605 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by rules 12 and 12A of the 
Central Excise Rules , 1944 , and in supersession of the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue and Company 
Law ) No. 112 /64, dated the 23rd May, 1964, the Central Government hereby 
directs that rebate of the duty paid on petroleum waxes packed in alkathene and 
jute bags , specified in column ( 1 ) of the Table unnexed hercto (hereinafter 
referred to as goods ) , shall, on thcir export out of India , whether by the manu 
facturer or by any other person or firm , be granted to the extent set out in the 
corresponding entry in Column ( 2 ) of the said Table without the production of 
documents evidencing the payment of duty on such goods and without any appli 
cation in Form A . R . 4 : 

Provided that 
( i) in respect of the goods exported by land or inland water , this notifica 

tion shall apply only to the goods that are exported to Pakistan or 
Burma; 


sid. Sel 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 190w /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


760 


G 


- 


- - 


= 


- 


= 


= 


= = 


( ii) the goods are exported within two years from the date of payment of 

duty or within such shorter period as the Central Government may 

specify in this behall ; 
( iii ) the fact of payment of duty on the goods exported is established to the 

satisfaction of the Collector ; 
( iv ) the amount of rebate admissible is not less than five rupees and the 

value of the goods themselves at the time of export is , in the opinion 

of the Collector, not less than the amount of the rebate claimed ; 
( v ) the exporter produces a certified copy of the shipping bill or the bill of 

export with an endorsement thereon by the proper officer of customs 

to the effect that the goods have been exportca ; 
( vi ) the exporter undertakes to refund to the Collector on demand being 

made within six months from the date of payment any rebate 

erroneously paid to him ; 
(vii ) the atoresaid rebate shall be paid by such officer as may be authorised 

in this behalf and in accordance with such procedure as may be 
prescribed from time to time, by the Central Board of Excise and 
Customs. 

TABLE 
- - - - - - - - - - - - 
Description 

Extent of Rebate 
( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 
- - - --- - - - - - 

- - 

- - - - - - - - 
Petroleum waxes termed as other 

Rs. 102. 00 per metric tonne, 
waxes. 
Alkathene Bags used as inner 

Rs. 3 . 23 per metric tonne , 
lining . 
Jute Bags. 

Rs. 2 . 05 per metric tonne . 


TOTAL 


Rs. 107 . 28 per metric tonne 
of other waxes . 


(No. 58 /66 -C .E . - F . No. 11/ 9 ; 65 -CX ,. 111.) 

A . P . KUMTAKAR , Under Secy . 


- - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


New Delhi, the 11th April 1966 
G . S . R . 606 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules to amend the 
Class I and Class II posts ( Otice of the Commissioner for Linguistic Minorities ) 
Recruitment Rules , 1962 , published with the notitication of the Government of Indłą 
la the Ministry of Home Affairs No . G . S . R . 1143, dated the 24th August, 1982 
namely : 

1 . These rules may be called the Class I and Class II posts (Office of the Com 
missioner for Linguistic Minorities) Recruitment Aniendment Rules , 1986 . 

2 . In the Schedule to Class I and Class II posts (Оfice of the Commissioner for 
Linguistic Minorities ) Recruitment Kules, 1962, 
( a ) in column 1 headed " Name of post . for the words " Assistant Commis 

sioner " , the words " Deputy Commissioner " shall be substituted ; 
(b ) in column 2 headed " No. of posts” , for the figure " 2 " , the figure " 1" shall 

be substituted ; 
( c) before the entries relating to " Section Omcer " , the following shall be 

ingerted , namely ; - 


170 


IO 


II 


Not 


Assistant 
Commis 

sioner 


I General 

Central 
Service 
Class I 


. 


Rs. 

700 - 40 % 
1100 - 50 / 2 
- 1250 


Transfer 
Deputation 


Not 


Not 
applicable 


applicable 


Not 
applicable 


applicable 


Not 
applicable 


Transfer 

Not 
Officers applicable 
working in 
similar Or 
equivalent 
posts in the 
Central 
State Gov 
ernments , 
Deputation 

O Section 
Officers 
belonging 
to 

the 
Central 
Secretariat 
Service with 
not less than 
7 years ser 
vice in the 

grade . 
# Suitable 

Class I 
Officers 
Working 
in the 

Central 
State 
Goveni 
menis , 
(Period of 

deputation 
ordinarily 
not ex 
ceeding three 
years ) . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL28.1986/VAISAKHA,1888 


PAKTE 


- 


SEC 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966 /VAISAKHA , 1888 


771 


S 


( d ) in the entries relating to " Section Officer" ,- -- 
(i) in column 4 headed " Scale of pay " , 
( 1) in Item 2 , for the expression " Grade III” , the expression " Section 

Oficers shall be substituted ; 
( 2 ) in item 3, for the expression " Gradę IV Officers " , the expression 

“ Assistants" shall be substituted ; 
(il ) in column 11, in item 2 , for the expression “ Grade III or Grade IV 

officers , the expression " Section Officers or Assistants " shall be 
substituted . 


[No. F . 9 / 1 / 65 -OL . ] 
P . N . KAUL , Dy. Secy , 


New Delhi, the 14th April 1966 
G . S . R . 607. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules to amend 
the Central Vigilance Commission (Staff ) Rules , 1984 , namely : 

1. ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Central Vigilance Commission ( Staff ) 
Amendment Rules , 1966 . 

( 2 ) They shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of November, 
1984. 
2. In the Central Vigilance Commission ( Staff) Rules, 1964 , 
(1) in rule 6 , after sub -rule ( 2 ) , the following sub - rule shall be inserted , 

namely : 
" ( 3 ) Fixation of pay of, or payment of deputation (duty ) allowance to . 

persons appointed to the posts specified in the Schedule . from the 
posts or grades specified in the Table in sub - rule ( 1 ) , shall be made 
in accordance with the same rules as are applicable for the time 
being to the Central Government employees in the respective grades 
or posts under the Union when such Central Government employees 
are transferred in the public interest on deputation outside the 
regular line of such employees to other Governments , departments 
or bodies ( whether incorporated or not ) , wholly or substantially 

owned or controlled by the Government. 
(11 ) after rule 11, the following Schedule shall be inserted , namely : 

" SCHEDULE 

[ See rule 6 ( 3 ) ] 
1 . Technical Examiner , 
2 . Assistant Technical Examiner . 
3. Assistant Technical Examiner (Horticulture ), 
4 . Technical Assistant." 

[No. 24 / 85 / 84 -AVD . ] 
A . P. VEERA RAGHAVAN , Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 16th April 1966 
G . S . R . 608 . - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) and the first proviso to sub - rule ( 2 ) 
of rule 4 of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre ) Rules, 1954, the Central 
Government in consultation with the Government of RAJASTHAN , hereby make 
the following amendment in the Indian Administrative Service ( Fixation of Cadre 
Strength ) Regulations, 1955 ; 

Amendment 
In the schedule to the said Regulations for the entries under " RAJASTHAN " , 
the following may be substituted : - - 
1, Senior posts under State Government 

Chief Secretary to Government 


772 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 9, 1888 


(Part 11 


Additional Chief Secretary to Government 
Commissioner for Development and Ex -officio Secretary to 

Government Development Department 
Chairman , Board of Revenue 
Members, Board of Revenue 
Secretaries to Government 
Special Secretaries to Government 
Deputy Secretaries to Government 
Settlement Commissioner and Ex -officio Director of Consolidation 
Additional Development Commissioner and Ex -officio Deputy 

Secretary to Government 
Settlement Officers 
Registrar, Co - operative Societies 
Additional Registrar, Cooperative Societies 
Secretary to the Governor 
Secretary to the Chief Minister 
Collectors 
Director of Industries 
Commissioner for Departmental Enquiries 
Principal, Officers Training School, Jodhpur 
Commissioner , Commercial Taxes 
Commissioner , Excise 
Labour Commissioner 
Secretary , Rajasthan Canal Board 
Commissioner , Colonisation , Rajasthan Canal Project and the 

Bhakra Project 


2 . Senior Posts under Central Government 


3 . Posts to be Alled by promotion and selection in accordance with 

rule 8 of the Indian Administrative Service ( Recruitment) 

Rules, 1984 
4 . Posts to be Alled by direct recruitment 
3 . Deputation Reserve @ 20 per cent of 4 above 
6 . Leave Reserve @ 11 per cent of 4 above 
7. Junior posts 20 .60 per cent of 4 above 
8. Training Reserve @ 10 .50 per cent of 4 above 


24 


Promotion posts 
Total Authorised Strength 

145 
2 . The amendment hereby made shall be deemed to have been in force from 
ist April, 1966. 

(No. 6 / 29 / 86 - AIS (I ). ] 

N . RAGHUNATHAN , Under Secy . 
New Delhi, the 8th April 1966 
G . S . R . 609 . - In pursuance of clause (2 ) of article 222 of the Constitution , the 
President hereby makes the following order , namely : 

That Shri Justice Khaleel Ahmad , who was transferred from the Patna High 
Court to the Origsa High Court, shall be entitled to receive , in addition to his 
salary , a compensatory allowance at the rate of runees four hundred per men 
sem for the period of his service as Chief Justice of the Orissa High Court. 

(No. 8 / 2 /65 - Judl.I. ] 
C . P , GUPTA , JG, Socy , 


år, 60)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 / VAISAKHA $, 1888 


773 


PLANNING COMMISSION 
( Programme Evaluation Organisation ) 

New Delhi, the 11th March 1966 
G . S.R . 610. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules regulating 
the recruitment and conditions of service of persons to the posts of Investigator 
(Grade I) in the Programme Evaluation Organisation of the Planning Commis 
sion , namely : 

1. Short Title . - ( 1) These rules may be called the Programme Evaluation 
Organisation (Non - Secretariat posts ) Recruitment Rules, 1986 . 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette . 

2 . Application . — These rules shall apply to the posts specified in column 1 of 
the Schedule hereto annexed . 

3 . Number of posts , Classification and scales of pay. The number of posts, 
their classification and the scales of pay attached thereto shall be as specifed 
in columns 2 to 4 of the said Schedule . 

4 . The method of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications. The method 
of recruitment, age limit. qualifications and other matters connected therewith 
shall be as specified in columns 5 to 13 of the Schedule aforesaid , 

Provided that the upper age limit prescribed for direct recruitment may be 
relaxed in the case of persons belonging to any Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe or other special category of person s in accordance with the orders issued 
from time to time by the Central Government, 

5 . Disquallications. - No person , who has more than one wife living or who, 
having a spouse living , marries in any case in which such marriage is void by 
reason of its taking place during the life time of such spouse , shall be eligible 
for appointment to any of the posts ; and no woman , whose marriage is void by 
reason of her husband having a wife living at the time of such marriage or who 
has married a person who has a wife living at the time of such marriage, shall be 
eligible for appointment to any of the posts . 

Provided that the Central Government may , if satisfied that there are special 
grounds for so doing, exempt any person from the operation of this rule. 

6 . Power to relax . - Where the Central Government is of opinion that it is 
necessary or expedient so to do, it may by order, for reasons to be recorded in 
writing and in consultation with the Union Public Service Commission , relax any 
of the provisions of these rules in respect of any class or category of persons. 


774 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


[PART II 


mmm 


La 


Recruitment Rules for the posts of Investigator (Grade 1) in 


Namcof post 


No. 


Classification 


of 


Scale of Whether 
pay Selection 

post 
or non 
Selec 
tion 
post 


Age limit 

for 
direct 
recruits 


Educational and 
other qualifica 
tions required for 
direct recruits . 


posts 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


IL 


( 1 ) Investigator 

(Gr. I) 
(Economics ) 


General 
Central 
Service 
Class It 
(Non 
gazetted 
Non 
Ministerial) 


Rs. 325 - Selection . 
15 - 475 
ER - 20 
575 . 


30 years Essential : 
and below 
(relaxable (i) Master s degree 
for Go in Economics or 
vernment Agricultural Eco 

Domics of a recog 
Var 

nised Universfty or 
equivalent. 


ser 


(it) About 2 years 
experience in Eco 
nomic Research / 
investigation , it 
cluding field ex 
perlence, 


(ili ) Knowledge of 
the Regional lan 
guage , as may bo 
specified in each 
case , 


(Qualifications re 
Laxable at Com 
mission s discre 
tion in case of 
candidates other 
wise well quali 
fied ) . 


Desirable : 
Familiarity with , 
or knowledge of, 
rural develop 
ment and evalua 
tion work and cx 
perience in drafting 
reports , 


Sto $ 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29 , 1966 /VATSAKHA $, 1888 


974 


Programme Evaluation Organisation (Planning 


Commission ). 


Whether 
age and 
educational 
qualifications 
prescribed for 
the direct 
recruits will 
apply in the 
cage of Pro 
moteca 


Period of Method of recruit - In case of recruit - If a Depart - Circumstan 
probation ment whether by ment by promotion mental Pro - cey in which 
If any direct recruitment deputation /transfer , motion UPSC is to 

or by promotion grades from which Committee be consulted 
or by deputation Promotion , deputa - exists, what in making 
transfer & percent- tion /transfer to be is its com recruitment 
age of the vacan - made 

position 
cics to be filled 
by various methods 


- 


- - - 


G 


9 


10 


IT 


12 


13 


- 


- - 


- 


- - -... 


No. 


2 yrs. 


Class II As required 
Department - under the 
tal Pro - rules , 
motion 
Committee , 


By promotion — 75 % Promotion : 
By direct recruit - Investigators 
ment - 25 % 

(Grade II ) (with 
qualifications in 
Economics or 
in subjects other 
than those pres 
cribed for posts 
in Statistics and 
Sociology dis 
ciplinçs ) with 4 
years service in 
the grade, 


776 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25 , 1966 /VATSAKHA $, 1888 


[PART 11 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


Solection 


( 2 ) Investigator 

(Gr. I) 
(Statistics ). 


General 
Central 
Service 
(Class II) 
Non 
gazetted ) 
Non 
Ministerial) . 


Rs. 324 - 
I5 - 475 
EB - 20 
575 . 


in 


30 yrs. Essential : 
& below 
(Relax - (1) Master s degree 
able for in Statistics OT 
Govern Mathematics 
ment Economics / Com 
servants ) . merce (with 

Statistics of a 
recognised Uni 
versity or equiva 
lent. 


OT 


Degree of a re 
cognised Univer 
sity with Mathe 
matics /Statistics as 
4 subject and 2 
years post gradua 
te training In 
Statistics at a re 
cognised Insti 
tution . 


( 13 ) About 2 years 
experience 
Statistical In 
vestigation , in 
volving collection, 
compilation and 
interpretation of 
Statistical data. 


(iii ) Knowledge of 
the Regional 
language , 
may be specified 
in each case. 


(Qualification , re 
laxable at Com 
mission s discrc 
tion in case of 
candidates other 
wise well quali 
fied ). 


Desirable: 


Familiarity with , 
of knowledge of, 
rural develop 
ment and evalua 
tion work and ex 
perience in draft 
ing reports . 


Sec. 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 / VAISAKHA . 3, 1888 


yang 


11 


12 


13 


- - - 


2 


Promotion : 


years 


By Promotion - 

50 % 
By direct recruit 
ment -- 50 % 


Class II 
Depart 
mental 
Promotion 
Committee. 


As required 
under the 
rules. 


Investigators 
(Grade II ) 
(Statistics ) 
with 4 years 
service in the 
grade . 


778 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 VAISAKHA 9, 1884 


(PART II-- 


LUL 


. 





" 


2 


3 


Selection 


Essential : 


(3 ) Iavestigator 

(Gr. I ) 
(Social & 
Allied Sciences) 


Rs. 325 - 
15 - 4754 
EB - 20 


General 
Central 
Service 
Class II 
(Non 
gazetted ) 

Non 
Ministerial) 


575 . 


30 yrs. 
& below 
(Relaxe - 
able for 
Goverſi 
ment 
servants ) 


0) Master s degree 
in Sociology , 
Social Psychology 
of Social Anth 
ropology of a 
recognised Uni 
versity 

of 
equivalent. 
(ü ) About 2 years 
experience of ro 
scarch on problems 
relating to So 
ciology , Social 
Psychology or 
Social Anthropo 
logy including 

field experiencre, 
( i ) Knowledge af 
Regional langu 
Agca inay be 
specified in each 

se . 
(Qualifications re 
laxable ut Com 
mission s discre 
tion in case of 
Candidates other 
wise well quali 
fied ) . 


Dewable : 
Familiarity with , 
of knowledge 
of, rural develop 
incnt and evalua 
Lion work ind 
experience in 
draſting , 


- 


- 


- 


SEC 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1966 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


779 


10 


II 


12 


13 


By promotion - 
50 % 


Class II 
DPC 


ycars . 


As required 
under the 
rules . 


Promotion : 
Investigators (Grade 
II) ( Social and 
Allied Sciences) 
with 4 years ser 
vict in the grade. 


By direct recruit 
ment - 50 % 


[No, PEO /15 ( 2 ) /64 - Adm .I.) 
JAGAT NARAIN JAIN , Under Secv, 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DALT, 1966 


