REGISTERED No. D . 222 


The Gazette 


of India 


पत्यमेव 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


- 


No. 51 ) NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 


NOTICE 


Tbe undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 13th December 
1957 - 


Issue 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subjoct 


No. 


576 


S . R . O . 3908 , dated the 7th 

December , 1957 . 


Ministry of Home | Amendment made in the notifi 
Affairs . 

cation No. S . R . O . 615 , dated 
the 28th April 1951. 


574 


S .R . O . 3909 , dated the 9th 

December , 1957 . 


Ministry of Finance , Grant of recognition to the Delhi 

Stock Exchange Association 
Ltd ., New Delhi under section 
3 of the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation ) Act , 1956 . 


S . R .O . 3910 , dated 

December, 1957 . 


the 9th 


Ditto . 


Application of section 13 of the 

Securities Contracts (Regula 
tion ) Act, 1956 to the linion 
territory of Delhi. 


S .R . O . 3911, dated the 

December, 1957 . 


9th 


Ditto . 


Appointment date on which scc 

t on 19 othe Securities Con 
tracts (Regulation ) Act, 1936 , 
shall come in force in Union 
territory of Delhi. 


378 , S. R .O . 3912 , dated the oth 

December, 1957 . 


Ministry of Law . 


The Constitution (Distribution 
of Revenues ) No. 2 Order, 
1987. 


578 -A S.R .O . 3912A , dated the oth 

December, 1957 


Election Commission , Removal of disqualſfication under 
India . 

clause (c ) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, incurred by Shr 
Kishen Chand . 


( 2855 ) 


2856 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 PART II 


Isgue) 
No. 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


579 


S . R .O . 3913 , dated the 27th 

November , 1957 . 


Election Commission , Election Petition No. 10 of 1995 , 
India , 


580 


Ditto . 


S.R . O . 3914 , dated the 7th 

December, 1957 . 


Election Petition No. 431 of 

1957 . 


581 | S .R . O . 3983, dated the 12th 

December , 1957 . 


Ministry of Com - | Amendments made to the Coir 
merce and Industry . | Industry Rules, 1954 , 


$ 82 


S .R . O . 3984 , dated the 6th 

December , 1957 . 


Election Commission , Election 
India , 

1957 . 


Petition No. 472 of 


583 S.R .O . 3985, dated the 13th Ministry of Home Notice of amendment to Second 
December , 1957 . 

Affairs . 

Schedule ( relating to tax free 
goods) in pursuance of the 
Bengal Financc (Sales Tax ) 
Act, 1941 ag extended to the 
Union territory of Delhi . 


$ 84 


S .R . O . 3986 , dated the 13th 

December , 1957 . 


Ministry of Informa- Certification of films to be of the 
tion and Broadcasting description specified therein . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi. Indents should be 
gubmitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes . 


PART II - Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi- 2, the 14th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4009. - In pursuance of sub - rule (4 ) of rule 134 of the Representation 
of the People (Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules , 1956 , the 
Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown in column 1 
of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for election to 
the House of the People from the constituency specified in column 2 thereof , at 
the general elections held in 1957, has in accordance with the decision given by 
the Election Commission under sub -rule ( 3 ) of the said rule , tailed to lodge his 
account of election expenses within the time and in the manner required by law 
and has thereby incurred the disquallAcation under clause ( c ) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act , 1931, Act 43 of 1951. 

SCHEDULE 


Name of Contesting Candidate 


Nane of constituency . 


2 


Shri Kamat Baidyanath , Village and P . O . Bangaon , 

P . S . and District Saharsa . 


Saharsa . 


(No. BR -P /61/57(205)/14059. ) 


Sec . 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 80 , 1879 


2857 


S . R . O . 4010 , -- In pursuance of sub - rule (4 ) of rule 134 of the Representation 
of the People (Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules, 1956, the 
Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown in column 1 
of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for election to 
the House of the People from the constituency specified in column 2 thereof, at 
the general elections held in 1957 , has in accordance with the decision given by 
the Election Commission under sub - rule ( 3 ) of the said rule , failed to lodge any 
account of his election expenses and has thereby incurred the disqualification 
under clause ( c ) of section 7 of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, Act 
43 of 1951. 


SCHBDULB 


Name of Contesting Candidate 


Name of constituency. 


т 


Shri Lal Neti, Village Bhalluahi, P . O . Khurasan , 

District Saharsa . 


Saharsa . 


[NO. BR -P /61/57(236)[14058 . ] 


S . R . O . 4011. --- In pursuance of sub - rule (4 ) of rule 134 of the Representation 
of the People ( Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules , 1950 , the 
Election Commission hereby notifies the name 09 the person shown in column 1 
of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for election to 
the House of the People from the constituency specified in column 2 thereof, at 
the general elections held in 1957, has in accordance with the decision given by 
the Election Commission under sub - rulc ( 3 ) of the said rule , failed to lodge his 
account of election expenses within the time required by law and has thereby 
Incurred the disqualification under clause ( c ) of section 7 of the Representation 
of the People Act , 1951, Act 43 of 1951. 


SCHEDULE 


Name of Contesting Candidate 


Namne vſ constituercy . 


r 11 Krai, Village and P . O . Murho , 
District Saharsa , 


Saharsa . 


[No. BR - P / 61 /57 ( 204 ) / 14060. 1 

By Order , 
A . KRISHNASWAMY AIYANGAR, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LAW 
New Delhi, the 17th December 1957 


S . R . O . 4012 [ Contracts / Ams. (20 ) . j . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause ( 1 ) of article 299 of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the 
following further amendments shall be made in the Notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Law No, S . R . O . 3442, dated the 2nd November , 
1955, relating to the cxecution of contracts and assurances of property , namely : 

In the said notification , Part I shall be lettered as item A of that Part and 
after the item as so lettered , the following shall be inserted , namely : 
" B . Agreements relating to the grant of provisional pension to displaced 
Government servants ; by the authorities sanctioning the pension " . 

[ No . F .44- (1) / 57 -J. 1 


2858 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957/ AGRAHAYANA 80, 1879 [ PART II 


S . R . O , 4013. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of rule 8B of 
Order XXVII of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (6 of 
1908 ), the Central Government hereby makes the following amendments in the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Law S . R . O . No. 3920 , 
dated the 5th December , 1957, namely : 

In the said notification 

1 . after the words not being a suit , the brackets and words “ (other than a 
suit in the City Civil Court, Calcutta ) " shall be inserted ; 
2 . In Item 13 of the Schedule , relating to West Bengal, - 
(1) in clause (b ) , after the words High Court the words and the City 

Civil Court shall be inserted ; 
(ll) after clause (b ) , the following clause shall be inserted , namely : 
" (c) City Civil Court, Calcutta . (1) Shri Soudhendra Kumar Basu , M .A . 

LL . B ., Senior Central Government 
Pleader , City Civil | Court, 43 / A , 

Bhupendra Basu Avenue, Calcutta . 
( 2 ) Shri R . M . Kar, Junior Central Govern 

ment Pleader , City Civil Court , JO , 

Old Post Office Street, Calcurta ." 
( 111) existing clause ( c) shall be re - lettered as clause ( d ) . 

(No. 7 .51- ( 2 ) / 57 - J.] 
B . N . LOKUR , Jt. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delht-2 , the 11th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4014.- - In pursuance of clause ( 1 ) of article 239 of the Constitution , the 
President hereby directs that, subject to his control, the Lieutenant Governor of 
the Union territory of Himachal Pradesh shall, in relation to the said territory , 
exercise the powers of a State Government under section 125 of the Code of 
Civil Procedure , 1908 (6 of 1908 ) . 

[No. F .2 / 7 / 57 - Judl.II. ] 
M . P . RODRIGUES, Under Secy . 


New Delhi- 2, the 11th December 1957 
S .R . O . 4015 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Indian 
Arms Act, 1878 ( 11 of 1878 ) the Central Government hereby exempts H . H . the 
Druk Gyalpo of Bhutan from the operation of the prohibitions and directions con 
tained in the said Act, in respect of one . 357 bore revolver ( S . No . 133225 ) and 
five hundred rounds of ammunition . 

[ No . 17 / 17 / 57 -Police ( IV ).) 


New Delhi-2, the 13th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4016 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Indian 
Arms Act , 1878 (XI of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby exempts Shri 
D . N . Bangal, from the operation of the prohibitions contained in section 6 of the 
Bald Act in respect of one . 38 bore revolver No . 55288 and connected ammunition , 
If any. 

[No. 18 / 10 / 57- Police (IV ) .] 
C . P . S. MENON , Dy . Secy . 


New Delhi- 2, the 12th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4017 . - In pursuance of sub -rule ( 1 ) and the first proviso to sub -rule ( 2 ) , 
of rule 4 of the Indian Administrative Service ( Cadre ) Rules , 1954 , the Central 
Government in consultation with the Government of Mysore hereby makes the 


Sec. 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 80, 1879 2859 


following amendment in the Indian Administrative Service ( Fixation of Cadre 
Strength ) Regulations, 1955 , namely : 

In the Schedule to the said Regulations, under the heading " Mysore " , in the 
Ilgt of posts specified under the sub -heading " Other Senior Duty Posts" , tbo follow . 
ing entry shall be omitted and shall be deemed to have been omitted with effect 
from the 13th September , 1957, namely : 

" Secretary , Mysore 
Government Insurance 
Department 

[ No. 13 /69 / 57-AIS ( III) ]. 


New Delhi-2 , the 18th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4018 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the All India Services Act , 1951 ( 61 of 1961 ), in so far as It applies 
to members of the Indian Civil Service , who have become members of the Indian 
Administrative Service , the Central Government, after consultation with the 
Governments of the States concerned , hereby makes the following amendment 
in the Indian Civil Service Provident Fund Rules , namely : 
In the said Rules, after Rule 14 , the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" 14 - A . When the Government is satisfied that the operation of any of these 

rules causes or is likely to cause undue hardship to a subscriber , 
it may , after recording the reasons for so doing and not withstanding 
anything contained in these rules , deal with the case of such sub 

scriber in such manner as may appear to it to be just and equitable : 
Provided that the case shall not be dealt with in any manner less favour 
able to such subscriber than that prescribed in these Rules ." 

(No. 13 / 48 / 57 -AIS ( III) . ) 
S . R . O . 4019, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the All India Services Act , 1951 ( 61 of 1931) , in its application to the members 
of the Indian Administrative Service, who before becoming such members, were 
members of the Indian Civil Service , the Central Government, after consultation 
with the Governments of the States concerned , hereby makes the following 
amendments in the Indian Civil Service Provident Fund Rules , 1942, namely : 
In the said Rules, after rule 7, the following shall be added , namely : 
" 7 - A , Subject to the conditions specified in rules 7- B , 7 - C , 7 - D , and 7- E , 

Government may , at any time after the completion 0 twenty - five 
years of service of a subscriber or within Ave years before the date 
of his retirement on superannuation , whichever is earlier , sanction 
withdrawal by him from the amount standing to his credit in the 

Fund for one or more of the following purposes , namely : 
( a ) Building or acquiring a suitable house for his residence including 

the cost of the site or repaying any outstanding amount on account 
of loan expressly taken , otherwise than from the Consolidated 

Fund of India or the Consolidated Fund of a State , for this purpose . 
(b ) Meeting the cost of higher education , including wherever necessary , 

the cost of passage, of any child of the subscriber in the following 

cases , namely : 
( 1) for education outside Indla for an academic , technical, professional 

or vocational course, and 
( 11) for any medical, engineering or other technical or specialised course 

in India beyond the High School Stage, provided that the course 
I of study is for not less than three years . 
7 - B . ( 1 ) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under clause ( a ) of rule 7 - A 

from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not exceed 
( at) one-half of such amount, or 
( b ) the actual cost o : the house including the cost of the site or the 

amount required for repayment of the loan taken for this purpose , 
whichever is less . 


Bulldingst ot the site taken 


2860 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 /AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [PART II 


Explanation . For the purposes of this sub - rule , the actual expenditure 

incurred in connection with the execution of any document relating 
to the transaction may be included in the cost of the house or the 

amount required for the repayment of the loan . 
(2 ) It a subscriber subscribes to more than one Provident Fund, with 

drawal shall be permitted only from one of such Funds as shall be 
selected by the subscriber, the amount of withdrawal being regulated 
in accordance with the total sum at his credit in all the Provident 

Funds to which he is subscribing . 
( 3 ) If a subscriber desires to withdraw any sum under clause ( a ) of 

rule 7 - A for the construction of a house , he shall be permitted to do 
so only in equal instalments of not less than two and not more than 
four in number ; but the withdrawal of any instalment after the first 
shall be permitted by the Government only if it is satisfied that there 

has been sufficient progress in the construction of the house . 
( 4 ) If any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under this rule is found to be 

in excess of that actually spent for the purpose for which such sum 
was withdrawn or is not applied for much purpose , the excess or the 
whole of such sum of so much thereo as bas not been so applied , 
shall forthwith be repaid , together with interest thereon at the rate 
determined under rule 4 , by the subscriber to the Fund ; and in default 
of such repayment, it shall be ordered by the Government to be 
recovered from his emoluments elther in a lump sum or in such 
number of monthly instalments as may be determined by the Govern 

ment. 
7 - C . ( 1 ) Any sum withdrawn by a subcriber under clause ( b ) of rule 7 - A 

from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not exceed 

one-halt of such amount or three months pay, whichever is less . 
( 2 ) If a subscriber subscribes to more than one Provident Fund, withdrawal 

by the subscriber , the amount of withdrawal being regulated in 
shall be permitted only from one of such Funds, as shall be selected 
accordance with the total sum at his credit in all the Provident Funda 

to which he is subscribing, 
( 3 ) Withdrawal by a subscriber under clause (b ) 0 .9 rule 7 - A from the 

amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall be permitted once in 

every six months. 
( 4 ) A subscriber who has been permitted to withdraw money under clause 

( b ) of rule 7 - A from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund , 
shall satisfy the Government within a period of six months from 
the date of withdrawal that the money has been utliiged for the 
purpose for which it was withdrawn , and if he fails so to do , the 
whole of the sum so withdrawn or so much thereof as has not been 
applied for the purpose for which it was withdrawn , shall forthwith 
be repaid , together with interest thereon at the rate determined 

under rule 4 , by the subscriber to the Fund : 
Provided that where a portion of the money withdrawn is not likely to be 

spent within the said period and the subscriber desires to withdraw 
any further sum al money from the Fund during the period of six 
months immediately following the said period, he shall so fix the 
amount proposed to be withdrawn during the period of six months 
immediately following the said period as to take into account this 
excess amount and submit an application in writing to the Govern 

ment in that behalf within one month of the expiry of the sald period : 
Provided further that such excess amount shall not exceed ten per cent of 

the amount utilised . 
7- D . (1 ) No withdrawal shall be permitted for any purpose specifled in clause 

( a ) of rule 7 - A , unless the Government is satisfied - - 
( a ) that the subscriber does not already own a house at the place of his 

duty or at the place where he intends to reside after retirement 
and that only one house will be built , acqutred , or redeemed by 

the subscriber at such place ; 
(b ) that the sum which it is proposed to withdraw ts actually required 

for that purpose ; 


SEC. 9 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1937 / AGRAHAYANA 50 , 1879 2861 


(c ) that such sum , together with the private savings , if any, of the sub 

scriber would be sufficient for that purpose ; 
(d ) that in the case or withdrawal for the construction of a house - 
(1) the subscriber possesses or intends to acquire forthwith the right 

to build it on the site therefor ; 
( 11 ) the subscriber has an approved plan ; 
( 14 ) the construction shall commence within six months from the date 

of withdrawal of money and shall be completed within a period 

of one year from the date of commencement of construction ; 
(e ) that in the case of withdrawal for the acquisition of a house 
( i) the subscriber has produced an agreement oi sale together with the 

title deeds of the vendor, whether original or certified copies 
thereo , showing that the vendor has an indefeasible and clear 
title to the land and house which he agrees to sell to the sub 

scriber : 
Provided that this condition shall not preclude withdrawal for the 

purpose of building a house on any plot of land taken on lease 

from the Government; 
( l ) the house shall be purchased or redeemed within three months from 

the date of withdrawal; 
(1 ) that in the case of withdrawal for the purpose of repayment of laan , 

the subscriber has produced necessary deeds and papers before the 
Government proving his undisputed title to the land and the house 
thereon and the loan shall be repaid within three months from the 

date of withdrawal. 
7 - E . ( 1) A subscriber who has been permitted under clause ( a ) of rule 7 - A 

to withdraw money from the amount standing to his credit in the 
Fund shall submit an annual declaration on or before the 31st Decem 
ber , in such orm as may from time to time be prescribed by the 
Government and satisfy the Government, If called upon to do so , bly 
the production of tax receipts , title deeds, or documents , that the 
house remains in his sole ownership and that he has not parted with 
the possession thereof, by way of sale , mortgage , gift, exchange, or 
lease for a term exceeding three years, without the previous permis 

sion the Government. 
( 2 ) It at any time before retirement a subscriber parts with the possession 

of the house contrary to the provisions of sub - rule ( 1 ) , the sum 
withdrawn by him shall forthwith be repayable together with interest 
thereon at the rate determined under rule 4 , by the subscriber to 

the Fund in one instalment." 
2 . The amendments hereby made shall be deemed to have come into force on 
the 12th April , 1955 . 

[No. 13 / 18 / 57-AIS (III ) - A .) 
S .R . O . 4020. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 3 of the All India Services Act , 1951 (61 of 1951 ) , in its application to the 
members of the Indian Police Service , who before becoming such members, were 
members of the Indian Police , the Central Government, after consultation with 
the Governments o the States concerned , hereby makes the following amendments 
in the Secretary of State s Services (General Provident Fund ) Rules, 1943, 
namely : 
In the said Rules, after rule 9, the following shall be added , namely : 
" 9 - A . Subject to the conditions specifled in rules 9 - B , 9 - C , 9 - D and 9 - E . 

Government may , at any time after the completion of twenty - five 
years of service of a subscriber or within five years ba ore the date 
of his retirement on superannuation , whichever is earlier , sanction 
withdrawal by him from the amount standing to his credit in the 

Fund for one or more of the following purposes, namely 
( a ) Building or acquiring a suitable house for his residence including the 

cost of the site or repaying any outstanding amount on account of 
loan expressly taken , otherwise than from the Consolidated Fund 
of India or the Consolidated Fund of a State, for this purpose . 


2862 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957, AGRAHAYANA 80 , 1879 [PART II 


( b ) Meeting the cost of higher education , including wherever necessary, 

the cost o passage, of any child of the gubscriber in the following 

cases , namely : 
( i) for education outside India for an academic, technical, professional 

or vocational course, and 
( 11 ) for any medical, engineering or other technical or specialised course 

in India beyond the High School Stage, provided that the course 

of study is for not less than three years . 
9 - B . ( 1 ) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under clause ( a ) of rule 9 - A 

from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not exceed -- 
( a ) one -half of such amount, or 
( b ) the actual cost of the house including the cost of the site or the 

amount required for repayment of the loan taken for this purpose , 

whichever is less , 
Explanation . -- For the purposes of this sub -rule , the actual expenditure 

incurred in connection with the execution of any document relating 
to the transaction may be included in the cost of the house or the 

amount required for the repayment of the loan . 
( 2 ) If a subscriber desires to withdraw any sum under clause ( a ) of 

rule 9 - A for the construction of a house , be shall be permitted to do 
so only in equal instalments of not less than two and not more than 
four in number ; but the withdrawal of any instalment after the first 
shall be permitted by the Government only if it is satisfied that 

there has been sufficient progress in the construction of the house , 
( 3 ) If any gum withdrawn by a subscriber under this rule is found to 

be in excess of that actually spent for the purpose for which such 
sum was withdrawn or is not applied for such purpose , the excess 
or the whole of such sum or so much thereof as has not been 80 
applied , shall Forthwith be repaid , together with interest thereon at 
the rate determined under rule 7 , by the subscriber to the Fund ; and 
in default of such repayment, it shall be ordered by the Government 
to be recovered from his emoluments either in a lump sum or in 
such number of monthly instalments as may be determined by the 

Government: 
Provided that a subscriber whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest 

shall not be liable to pay and interest on any suin repayable by him . 
9 -C . ( 1 ) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under clause ( b ) of rule 9 - A 

from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not exceed 

one- half of such amount or three months pay whichever is less . 
( 2 ) Withdrawal by a subscriber under clause (b ) of rule 9 - A from the 

amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall be permitted once 

in every six months. 
( 3 ) ( a ) A subscriber who has been permitted to withdraw money under 

clause ( b ) of rule 9 - A from the amount standing to his credit in 
the Fund , shall satisfy the Government within a period of six months 
from the date of withdrawal that the money has been utilised for the 
purpose for which it was withdrawn, and if he fails so to do , the 
whole of the sum so withdrawn or so much thereof as has not been 
. applied for the purpose for which it was withdrawn , shall forthwith 
be repaid , together with interest thereon at the rate determined 

under rule my by the subscriber to the Fund : 
Provided that where a portion of the money withdrawn is not likely to be 

spent within the said period and the subscriber desires to withdraw 
any further sum of money from the Fund during the period of six 
months immediately following the sald period , he shall so Ax the 
amount proposed to be withdrawn during the period of six months 
immediately following the said period as to take into account this 
excess amount and submit an application in writing to the Govern 

ment in that behalf within one month of the expiry of the said period : 
Provided further that such excess amount shall not exceed ten percent of 

the amount utllised. 
( b ) Nothing in clause (a ) shall be deemed to require a subscribor whose 

deposits in the Fund carry no interest, to pay any interest on any 
sum repayable by him under that clause . 


via the amount clause can share 


on their 


Sac. 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 /AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 


2863 


9 - D . ( 1 ) No withdrawal shall be permitted for any purpose specified in 

clause (a ) of rule 9- A unless the Government is satisfied 
( A ) that the subscriber does not already own a house at the place of his 

duty or at the place where he intends to reside after retirement 
and that only one house will be built, acquired , or redeemed by 

the subscriber at such place ; 
(b ) that the sum which it is proposed to withdraw is actually required 

for that purpose ; 
( c ) that such sum , together with the private savings, if any, of the sub 

scriber would be sufficient for that purpose ; 
( d ) that in the case of withdrawal for the construction of a house 
(1) the subscriber possesses or intends to acquire forthwith the right 

to build it on the site therefor; 
( ii ) the subscriber has an approved plan ; 
(111) the construction shall commence within six months from the date 

of withdrawal of money and shall be completed within a period 

of one year from the date of commencement of construction ; 
( e ) that in the case of withdrawal for the acquisition of a house 
(i ) the subscriber has produced an agreement of sale together with the 

title deeds of the vendor, whether original or certified copies 
thereo , showing that the vendor has an indefeasible and clear 
title to the land and house which he agrees to sell to the sub 

scriber : 
Provded that this condition shall not preclude withdrawal for the 

purpose of building a house on any plot of land taken on lease 

from the Government; 
(11) the house shall be purchased or redeemed within three months from 

the date of withdrawal; 
( 1 ) that in the case o withdrawal for the purpose of repayment of loan , 

the subscriber has produced necessary deeds and papers before the 
Government proving his undisputed title to the land and the house 
thereon and the loan shall be repaid within three months from the 

date of withdrawal . 
9 - E . ( 1 ) A subscriber who has been permitted under clause ( a ) of rule 9 - A 

to withdraw money from the amount standing to his credit in the 
Fund shall submit an annual declaration on or before the 31st 
December , in such form as may from time to time be prescribed by 
the Government and satisiy the Government it called upon to do so , 
by the production of tax receipts , title deeds, or documents , that the 
house remains in his sole ownership and that he has not parted with 
the possession thereof, by way of sale , mortgage , gift, exchange, or 
lease for a term exceeding three years, without the previous permis 

sion of the Government. 
( 2 ) If at any time be ore retirement, a subscriber parts with the possession 

of the house contrary to the provision of sub - rule ( 1 ) the sum with 
drawn by him shall forthwith be repayable together with interest 
thereon at the rate determined under rule 4 by the subscriber 

to the Fund in one instalment: 
Provided that a subscriber whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest 

shall not be liable to pay any interest on any sum repayable by 

him . 
2. The amendments hereby made shall be deemed to have come into force on 
the 12th April, 1955. 

[No. 13 / 18 / 57-AIS ( III) - B . ] 
S . R . O 4021. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , in its application to the officers of the Secretary of State s 
Services serving in connection with the affairs of the Union , the President hereby 
makes the following amendments in the Secretary of State s Services (General 
Provident Fund ) Rules, 1943, namely : 
In the said Rules, after rule 9, the following shall be added , namely : 
" 9 - A , Subject to the conditions specified in rules 9 - B , 9 - C , 9 - D and 8 - E , 

Government may, at any time after the completion of twenty - five 
years of service of a subscriber or within flve years before the date 


o to the Fund the rate deterthwith 


2864 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 /AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 [PART II 


of his retirement on superannuation , whichever is earlier , sanction 
withdrawal by him from the amount standing to his credit in the 

Fund for one or more of the following purposes, namely : - - 
( a ) Building or acquiring a suitable house for his residence including the 

cost of the site or repaying any outstanding amount on account of 
loan expressly taken , otherwise than from the Consolidated Fund 

of India or the Consolidated Fund of a State, for this purpose. 
( b ) Meeting the cost of higher education , including wherever necessary , 

the cost of passage, of any child of the subscriber in the following 

cases, namely : — 
(i) for education outside India for an academic , technical, professional 

or vocational course , and 
( u ) for any medical, engineering or other technical or speciallsed 

course in India beyond the High School Stage , provided that 

the course of study is for not less than three years, 
9 - B . ( 1 ) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under clause ( a ) of rule 9 - A , 

from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not exceed 
( a ) one-half of such amount, or 
(b ) the actual cost of the house including the cost of the site or the 

amount required for repayment of the loan taken for this purpose , 

whichever is less . 
Explanation . - - For the purposes of this sub - rule , the actual expenditure 

incurred in connection with the execution of any document relating 
to the transaction may be included in the cost of the house or the 

amount required for the repayment of the loan . 
( 2 ) If a subscriber desires to withdraw any sum under clause (a ) of rule 9 - A 

for the construction of a house , he shall be permitted to do so only 
in equal instalments of not less than two and not more than four 
in number ; but the withdrawal of any instalment after the first 
shall be permitted by the Government only it it is satisfied that 

there has been sufficient progress in the construction of the house , 
(3 ) If any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under this rule is found to be 

in excess of that actually spent for the purpose for which such sum 
was withdrawn or is not applied for such purpose , the excess or the 
whole of such sum or so much thereof as has not been so applied , 
shall forthwith be repaid , together with interest thereon at the rate 
determined under rule 7 , by the subscriber to the Fund ; and in 
default of such repayment, it shall be ordered by the Government 
to be recovered from his emoluments either in a lump sum or in 
such number of monthly instalments as may be determined by the 

Government: 
Provided that a subscriber whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest 

shall not be llable to pay any interest on any sum repayable by him . 
9 - C . ( 1 ) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under clause (b ) of rule 9 - A 

from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not exceed 

one-half of such amount or three months pay, whichever is less . 
( 2 ) Withdrawal by a subscriber under clause (b ) of rule 9 - A from the 

amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall be permitted once 

in every six months. 
( 3 ) ( a ) A subscriber who has been permitted to withdraw money under 

clause (b ) of rule 9 - A from the amount standing to his credit in the 
Fund , shall satisfy the Government within a period of six months 
from the date of withdrawal that the money has been utilised for 
the purpose for which it was withdrawn , and if he fails so to do 
the whole of the sum so withdrawn or so much , thereof as has not 
been applied for the purpose for which it was withdrawn , shall 
forthwith be repaid , together with interest thereon at the rate 

determined under rule 7 , by the subscriber to the Fund : 
Provided that whore a portion of the money withdrawn is not likely to 

be spent within the said period and the subscriber desfres to with 
draw any further sum of money from the Fund during the period 
of six months immediately following the said period , he shall so fix 


Sec 5) THE GAZE 


SEC. 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 /AGRAHAYANA 50 , 1879 2865 


com amoms 


the amount proposed to be withdrawn during the period of six 
months immediately following the said period as to take into ac 
count this excess amount and submit an application in writing to 
the Government in that behalt within one month of the expiry of 

the sald period ; 
Provided further that such excess amount shall not exceed ten percent of 

the amount utilised . 
(b ) Nothing in clause ( a ) shall be deemed to require a subscriber whose 

deposits in the Fund carry no interest, to pay any interest on any 

sum repayable by him under that clause . 
9 - D : - ( 1 ) No withdrawal shall be permitted for any purpose specified in 

clause ( a ) of rule 9 -A unless the Government is satisfied 
(a ) that the subscriber does not already own a house at the place of 

his duty or at the place where he intends to reside after retire 
ment and that only one house will be built, acquired , or redeemed 

by the subscriber at such place; 
(b ) that the sum which it is proposed to withdraw is actually required 

for that purpose; 
( c ) that such sum , together with the private savings, if any , of the sub 

scriber would be sufficient for that purpose ; 
( d ) that in the case of withdrawal for the construction of a house 
( 1) the subscriber possesses or intends to acquire forthwith the right 

to build it on the site therefor ; 
( ii ) the subscriber has an approved plan ; 
Gitt) the construction shall commence within six months from the date 

of withdrawal of money and shall be completed within a period 

of one year from the date of commencement of construction ; 
(e ) that in the case of withdrawal for the acquisition of a house 
( 1) the subscriber has produced an agreement of sale together with 

the title deeds of the vendor, whether original or certified 
copies thereof, showing that the vendor has an indefeasible and 
clear title to the land and house which he agrees to sell to the 

subscriber : 
Provided that this condition shall not preclude withdrawal for the 

purpose of building a house on any plot of land taken on lease 

from the Government; 
( il) the house shall be purchased or redeemed within three months. 

from the date of withdrawal; 
( f ) that in the case of withdrawal for the purpose of repayment of loan , 

the subscriber has produced necessary deeds and papers before 
the Government proving his undisputed title to the land and the 
house thereon and the loan shall be repaid within three months 

from the date of withdrawal, 
9 - E ( 1 ) A subscriber who has been permitted under clause ( a ) of rule 9 - A 

to withdraw money from the amount standing to his credit in the 
Fund shall submit an annual declaration on or before the 31st 
December , in such form as may from time to timę bę prescribed by 
the Government and satisfy the Government if called upon to do 
so , by the production of tax receipts , title deeds, or documents , that 
the house remains in his sole ownership and that he has not parted 
with the possession thereof , by way of sale , mortgage, gift, exchange , 
or lease for a term exceeding three years , without the previous 

permission of the Government. 
( 2 ) If at any time before retirement a subscriber parts with the possession 

of the house contrary to the provisions of sub - rule ( 1) , the sum 
withdrawn by him shall forthwith be repayable together with 
Interest thereon at the rate determined under rule 7 , by the sub 

scriber to the Fund in one instalment : 
Provided that a subscriber whose deposits in , the Fund carry no interest 

shall not be liable to pay any interest on any sum tepayable by him ." 
2. The amendments hereby made shall be deemed to have come into force on 
the 12th April , 1955 . 

[No, 13 / 18 / 57 -AIS (III)- C . ) 


2866 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 80 , 1879 [PART II 


S .R . O . 4022 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 3 of the All India Services Act , 1951 (61 of 1951), in its application to the 
members of the Indian Administralive Service , who , before becoming such mem 
bers , were members of the Indian Civil Service , the Central Government, after 
consultation with the Governments of the States concerned , hereby makes the 
following amendments in the Indian Civil Service (Non - European Members ) 
Provident Fund Rules , 1943, namely : - - 
In the said Rules, after rule 6, the following shall be inserted namely : 
" 6 - A - Subject to the conditions specified in rules 6 - B , 6 - 0 , 6 - D and 8 - E , 

Government may , at any time after the completion of twenty - five 
years of service of a subscriber or within Ave years before the date 
of his retirement on superannuation , whichever is earlier , sanction 
withdrawal by him from the amount standing to his credit in the 

Fund for one or more of the following purposes , namely : 
( a ) Building or acqulring a suitable house for his residence including the 

cost of the site or repaying any outstanding amount an account of 
loan expressly taken , otherwise than from the Consolidated Fund 

of India or the Consolidated Fund of a State , for this purpose . 
(b ) Meeting the cost of higher education , including wherever necessary, 

the cost of passage, of any child of the subscriber in the following 

cases, namely : 
(1) for education outside India for an academic , technical, professional 

or vocational course , and 
( 1 ) for any medical, , engineering or other technical or specialised 

course in India beyond the High School Stage , provided that 

the course of study is for not less than three years , 
6 - B . - ( 1 ) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under clause ( a ) of rule 6 - A 

from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not exceed 
(a ) one-half of such amount, or 
(b ) the actual cost of the house including the cost of the site or the 

amount required for repayment of the loan taken for this purpose , 

whichever is less . 
Explanation . For the purposes of this sub - rule , the actual expenditure 

incurred in connection with the execution of any document relating 
to the transaction may be included in the cost of the house or the 

amount required for the repayment of the loan , 
( 2 ) If a subscriber subscribes to more than one Provident Fund , with 

drawal shall be permitted only from one of such Funds, as shall 
be selected by the subscriber, the amount of withdrawal being re 
gulated in accordance , with the total sum at his credit in all the 

Provident Funds, to which he is subscribing . 
( 3 ) If a subscriber desires to withdraw any sum under clause ( a ) of rule 6 - A 

for the construction of a house , he shall be permitted to do so only 
in equal instalments of not less than two and not more than four 
in number ; but the withdrawal of any instalment after the first 
shall be permitted by the Government only if it is satisfied that 

there has been sufficient progress in the construction of the house . 
(4 ) If any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under this rule is found to be 

in excess of that actually spont for the purpose for which such sum 
was withdrawn or is not applied for such purpose, the excess or the 
whole of such sum or so much thereof as has not been so appiled , 
shall forthwith be repaid , together with interest thereon at the rate 
determined under rule 4 , by the subscriber to the Fund ; and in 
default of such rcpayment, it shall be ordered by the Government 
to be recovered from his emoluments either in a lump sum of in 
such number of monthly instalments as may be determined by the 

Government : 
Provided that a subscriber whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest 

shall not be liable to pay any interest on any sum repayable by him . 


6 - C - ( 1 ) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber under clause ( b ) of rule 6 - A 

from the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not exceed 
one-half of such amount or three months pay, whichever is less . 


Sec. 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 /AGRAHAYANA 90 , 1879 2867 


( 2 ) If a subscriber subscribes to more than one Provident Fund , withdrawal 

shall be permitted only from one of such Funds, as shall be selected 
by the subscriber , the amount of withdrawal being regulated in 
accordance with the total sum at his credit in all the Funds to 

which he is subscribing. 
(3 ) Withdrawal by a subscriber under clause (b ) of rule 6 - A from the 

amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall be permitted once 

in every six months . 
( 4 ) ( a ) A subscriber who has been permitted to withdraw money under 

clause (b ) of rule 6 - A from the amount standing to his credit in the 
Fund , shall satisfy the Government within a period of six months 
from the date of withdrawal that the money has been utilised for 
the purpose for which it was withdrawn , and if he fails so to do, 
the whole of the sum so withdrawn or so much thereof as has not 
been applied for the purpose for which it was withdrawn, shall 
forthwith be repaid , together with interest thereon at the rate 

determined under rule 4; by the subscriber to the Fund : 
Provided that where a portion of the money withdrawn is not Ukely to 

be spent within the said period and the subscriber desires to with 
draw any further sum of money from the Fund during the period 
of six months immediately following the said period , he shall so fr 
the amount proposed to be withdrawn during the period of six 
months immediately following the said period as to take into ac 
count this excess amount and submit an application in writing to 
the Government in that behalf within one month of the expiry of 

the said period : 
Provided further that such excess amount shall not exceed ten percent of 

the amount utilised . 
(b ) Nothing in clause ( a ) shall be deemed to require a subscriber whose 

deposits in the Fund carry no interest, to pay any interest on any 

sum repayable by him under that clause . 
6 - D . ( 1 ) No withdrawal shall be permitted for any purpose specifed in 

clause (a ) of rule 8 - A unless the Government is satisfied 
(a ) that the subscriber does not already own a house at the place of 

his duty or at the place where he intends to reside after retiro 
ment and that only one house will be built , acquired , or redeemed 

by the subscriber at such place ; 
(b ) that the sum which it is proposed to withdraw is actually required 

for that purpose ; 
( c ) that such sum , together with the private savings , if any , of the sub 

scriber would be sufficient for that purpose ; 
(d ) that in the case of withdrawal for the construction of a house - 
(1) the subscriber possesses or intends to acquire forthwith the right 

to build it on the site therefor ; 
(11 ) the subscriber has an approved plan ; 
(ill) the construction shall commence within six months from the date 

of withdrawal of money and shall be completed within a period 

of one year from the date of commencement of construction ; 
( c ) that in the case of withdrawal for the acquisition of a house 
(1) the subscriber has produced an agreement of sale together with 

the title deeds of the vendor , whether original or certified 
copies thereof, showing that the vendor has an indefeasible and 
clear title to the land and house which he agrees to sell to the 

subscriber : 
Provided that this condition shall not preclude withdrawal for the 

purpose of building a house on any plot of land taken on lease 

from the Government; 
(11) the house shall be purchased or redeemed within three montho 

from the date of withdrawal; 
( 1 ) that in the case of withdrawal for the purpose of repayment of loan , 

the subscriber has produced necessary deeds and papers before 
the Government proving his undisputed title to the land and the 
house thereon and the loan shall be repaid within three months 
from the date of withdrawal, 


2868 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 80 , 1879 [ PART II 


- E . ( 1 ) A subscriber who has been permitted under clausę ( a ) of rule 6 - A 

to withdraw money from the amount standing to his credit in the 
Fund shall submit an annual declaration on or before the 31st 
December, in such form as may from time to time be prescribed by 
the Government and satisfy the Government iſ called upon to do 
so, by the production of tax receipts , title deeds, or documents , that 
the house remains in his sole ownership and that he has not parted 
with the possession thereof, by way of sale , mortgage , gift, exchange , 
Or lease for a term exceeding three years , without the previous 

permission of the Government . 
( 2 ) If at any time before retirement a subscriber parts with the possession 

of the house contrary to the provisions of sub -rule ( 1 ) , the sum 
withdrawn by him shall forthwith be repayable together with 
interest thereon at the rate determined under rule 4 , by the sub 

scriber to the Fund in one instalment : 
Provided that a subscriber whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest 

shall not be liable to pay any interest on any sum repayable by him ." 
2 . The amendments hereby made shall be deemed to have come into force on 
the 12th April, 1955 . 

[No. 13/ 18 / 57-AIS ( III)- D .] 
S . P . MUKERJEE, Under Secy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi- 2 , the 10th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4023 . In pursuance of clause ( 22 ) of Article 366 of the Constitution 
of Indla , the President is pleased to recognise His Highness Raja Bhanu Prakash 
Singh as the Ruler of Narsingarh (Madhya Pradesh ) with effect from the 17th 
July, 1957 in succession to His late Highness Raja Sir Vikram Singh , K . C .I . E . 

[ No, F .5 / 36 / 37-Poll .III. ) 

V. VISWANATHAN , Jt. Secy . 
ORDER 

New Delhi-2 , the 13th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4024 . -- In pursuance of clause ( e ) of the first proviso to sub - rule ( 2 ) 
of rule 1 of the Central Civil Services (Conduct ) Rules , 1955 , the President 
hereby declares that the said Rules shall not apply to persons holding the follow 
ing posts under the Delhi Administration , namely : 

1 . Chairman , Industrial Advisory Board . 
2 . Chairman , Public Relations Committee . 

[No. F .3 / 27 / 57 -Delhi. ] 
D . D . GOTHI, Under Secy , 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi- 3 , the 2nd December 1957 
S . R . O . 4028 . - In pursuance of Sub -section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Port Haj 
Committees , Act , 1932 (XX of 1932 ) , the Central Government is pleased to 
nominate Shri G . N . Kowshik , Executive Health Officer , Bombay Corporation , 
Bombay , as member of the Port Haj Committee Bombay, in the vacancy caused 
by the retirement of Dr . V . V . Puri. 

[No. 804 -WANA / 57. ) 


S . R . O . 4026 . - In pursuance of Sub - Section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Port Haj 
Committee Act, 1932 (XX of 1932 ) , the Central Government is pleased to 
nominate Shri K . P , Mandhekar, I,P . S ., Deputy Commissioner of Police , Bombay, 
as a member of the Port Haj Committee, Bombay, vice Shri John Lobo , IPS . 

[No. 805 -WANA / 57 .] 
M . A . VELLODI, Dy . Secy . 


BEC . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 


2869 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi, the 10th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4027 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause (5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution , the President, after consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India in relation to persong serving 
in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department hereby directs that the following 
amendments shall be made to the Civil Service Regulations, namely : 
In (Regulation ) article 822 of the said Regulations, in clause (a 
(i) for the words British Service , the words Government service shall be 

substituted . 
( ii) the full stop occurring at the end shall be omitted and the following 

words added , namely : 
" including the fact of recovery of leave and pension contributions " . 

[No. F . 1( 8 )- Est.IV / 34 .] 
C . B . GULATI, Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 13th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4028. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (2 ) of section 
1 of the Industrial Finance Corporation ( Amendment) Act, 1957 ( 43 of 1957 ) , the 
Central Government hereby appoints the 21st day of December , 1957 as the date 
on which the said Act shall come into force . 

[No. F . 2 ( 85 ) - Corp ./56. ] 
N . R . REDDY , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 18th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4029. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 ( 74 of 1956 ) , and in supersession of the 
notification of the Ministry of Finance , Department of Economic Affairs , S . R .O . 
No. 2960 dated tho 13th September , 1957 and all other previous notifications on 
the subject, the Central Government hereby appoints the 1st day of April, 1958 , 
as the date on which section 15 of the said Act shall come into force. 

[No . 9 ( 116 )-ST /57.] 
M . K . VENKATACHALAM , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Revenue ) 

New Delhi, the 6th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4030. - Consequent on the abolition of the post of Junior Authorised 
Representative, Income- tax Appellate Tribunal, Madres , the powers conferred on 
Shri S . R . Sabapathy by this Ministry Notification No . 77 , dated the 11th July 
1956. are hereby withdrawn . 

[No. 58 .] 
P . N . DAS GUPTA , Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revente) 
MEDICINAL AND TOILET PREPARATIONS 

New Delhi, the 16th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4031. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the 
Medicinal and Toilet Preparations ( Excise Duties ) Act , 1955 ( 16 of 1955 ) , the 


2870 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 90 , 1879 [PART II 

- 4 
Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the 
Medicinal and Toilet Preparations ( Excise Duties ) Rules, 1956 , namely : 
In the Schedule to the said Rules 
( i) the preparations " Drakshasava" and " Draksharishta " appearing under 

the head " Non -pharmacopoeial preparations" shall be omitted ; 

and 
( li ) the following shall be inserted at the end , namely : 
" Ayurvedic preparations 

Draksharishta . 
Drakshasava 


the lo ayurvedorakisha 


[No. 18 .) 


CENTRAL EXCISES 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4032 . - In the notification ( S . R . O . No. 3324 ) of the Government of India , 
Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue ) No . 85 / 57 -Central Excises , dated 
the 19th October, 1957, printed on page 2258 of Section 3 of Part II of the Gazette 
of India of the 19th October 1957 , omit the word " working" . 

[No. 103 / 57.) 
B . D . DESHMUKH , Dy. Secy . 


( Department of Revenue ) 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 21st December 1957 
S . R . O . 4038 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following further amend 
ment in the notification of the Government of India in the late Finance Depart 
ment (Central Revenues) No . 33 -Customs, dated the 22nd June , 1935 , namely : 

In Schedule I annexed to the said notification , under the heading 
" A - GENERAL " , the following entries against Serial No . 26 and Serial No. 28P 
shall be omitted , namely : 

26 . Aircraft materiwls 8.- ch Provided they ha e been So much of the duty as 

AB 3 -plywood , duralumin giren for use as aircraft is in excess of 3 per cent 
sheets and fabric , but ex materials some special ad valorem , 
cluding dope. 

shape or quality which 
would not be essential for 
their use for any other 

purpose 
28P . Striking combs used 

So much as is in excess 
in textile machinery 

of 10 per cent ad valorem , 

[No. 306 .) 


S . R . O . 4034 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby exempts aircraft materials such 
as 3 -ply wood , duralumin sheets and fabric , but excluding dope, when imported 
into India or the State of Pondicherry , from so much of the customs duty leylable 
thereon as is in excess of the duty of 3 per cent. ad valorem : 

Provided they have been given for use as aircraft materials some special shape 
or quality which would not be essential for their use for any other purpose . 

(No. 307 .) 


SFC. 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 80, 1879 2871 


S .R . O . 4035. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby exempts striking combs used in 
textile machinery , when imported into India or the State of Pondicherry , from 
so much of the customs duty leviable thereon as is in excess of the duty of 10 
per cent. ad valorem . 

[No. 308 . ] 
M . A . RANGASWAMY, Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Revenue ) 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 21st December 1957 
9 . R . O , 4036 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 09 the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
in further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division ) No. 77 -Customs, dated the 19th August , 
1950, namely : 

In the said notification , for the words "Madras and Cochin " , the words " Madras, 
Cochin and Visakhapatnam " shall be substituted , 

[No. 309 .) 


ORDER 

STAMPS 

New Delhi, the 12th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4037,- - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby remits the duty with which the debentures of the value of Rs. 1 
crore issued by the Bombay State Financial Corporation are chargeable under 
the paid act . 


[No. 34. ] 
M . PANCHAPPA, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 16th December 1957 
8 . R . O . 4038 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( b ) of sub -section 
( 2 ) of section 6 of the Forward Contracts ( Regulation ) Act, 1952, ( 74 of 1952 ) , 
read with Article 106 (lv ) of the Articles of Association of the Agra Merchants 
Chamber Ltd ., Agra , (hereinafter referred to as the Chamber ,) the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints , 
Shri D . R . Pendsc , M . A . (Cantab ) , Inspecting Officer , Forward Markets 

Commission , Government of India , Bombay -2 
on the Board of Directors of the Chamber to represent the Central Government. 

[No. F .35 ( 8 )- TMP / 57. ) 


(Indian Standards Institution ) 

Delhi, the 5th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4039 .-- In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards 
Institution notifies that the marking fee per unit for Tea -Chest Plywood Panels , 
details of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , has been determined 
and it shall come into force with effect from 1st January , 1958 . 


2822 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 80 , 1879 [ PART II 


- = - = 


= - - 


THE SCHEDULE 


Product/Class of 

Products 


No , and Title of 
Relevant Indian 

Standard 


Unit 


Marking 
fee per 
Unit 


Remarks 


Tea -Chest Plywood 

Panels . 


One Hundred Nil 
Square Feet 


IS : 10 — 1953 Spe- 
cification for Ply - 

wood Tea - Chests 
(Revised ) 


Contribution to the 
Plywood Industry 
Voluntary Contri 
bution Fund 
would continue to 
be made to the De 
velopment Wing ,Mi 
nistry of Commerce 
and Industry . 


A . N . GHOSH , Jt. Director, 

[No, MDC / 11 (6 ) .] 


Delhi, the 9th December 1957 
8 . R . O . 4040.- In pursuance of sub- regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 8 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards 
Institution hereby notifies that two licences , particulars of which are given in 
the Schedule hereto annexed , have been renewed for a period of one year . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Period of validity 


Si. Licence 
No . No. and 

Date 


- 


Namc and 
address of the 

Licensee 


Articlc / Process 
covered by the 

licence 


Relevant 
Indian 
Standard 


From 


Το 


9 - 12 - 1958 


1 CM /L - 21 10 - 12 - 1957 

3 - 12- 1956 


Messrs. Devi - Aluminium 

dayal Metal Sheets , Strips 
Industries ( Pri- and Circles 
vate) Limited , Grade A and 
Tulsiram Gupta Grade B . 
Mills Estate , 
Darukhana , 
Bombay- 10 . 


IS : 21- 1953 
Specification 
for Wrought 
Aluminium 
for Utensils . 


16 - 12 - 1958 


Do, 


2 CM /L - 22 17 - 12 - 1957 

13 - 12 - 1956 


Dom 


Wrought Alu 
minium Ulen 
sils - Grade A 
and Grade B . 


D . V . KARMARKAR , Dy. Director (Marks.) 


[ No . MDC-12 / (66 ).] 
T , S KUNCHITHAPATHAM , Under Secy . 


Suc. 9] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 /AGRAHAYANA 90 , 1879 2873 


ERRATA 
In the Schedule annexed to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry ( Indian 
Ştandards Institution ) Notification No. MDC / 11 ( 4 ) dated the 18th November 1957, 
published in the Gazette of India , Part I - Section 3 , dated the 30th November 
1957 as S . R .O . 3809, please make the following alterations: 


Page 
No. 


Sl. No. 


Column 


for 


Read 


2767 


60° C to 30°C 


60° C to 30° C 


(last but one line) 


Do . 


14 


particular 


particulars 


(line*2) 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculture) 
( Indian Council of Agricultural Research ) 

New Delhi- 2 , the 9th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4041. — Under Section 4 (il ) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act 1923 ( 14 of 
1923 ) , the Central Government hereby nominate Dr. R . S . Bhatt, Economic 
Botanist , Madhya Pradesh , Indore , as a member of the Indian Central Cotton 
Committee , Bombay, upto 31st March , 1958 , vice Dr. V . G . Vaidya . 

[ No. 1 -42/ 56 - Com .II. ] 
New Delhi, the 10th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4042 .- In pursuance of the provisions of sub - sections ( e ) and ( f ) of 
Section 4 of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act , 1946 ( 9 of 1946 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoint; - - 

( i) The Director of Agriculture , Punjab , Chandigarh ; and 
( ii ) Raja Surendra Singh of Nalagarh , M . L . A ., 1 - A , Race Course Road , 

Patiala . 
respectively , as members of the Indian Central Ollseeds Committee , on being 
nominated by the State Government of Punjab . 

Their term of appointment is for a period of 3 years with effect from the 
1st April, 1957. 

[No. 6-4 /57 -Com .I.] 
R . D . THAWANI, Under Secy . 


( Department of Food ) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 14th December 1957 
S . R .O . 4043. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30° the Essen 
tial Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes 
the following further amendment in the Inter- Zonal Wheat Movement Control 
Order , 1957, namely : 

Amendment 
In the said Order, in clause 2, for sub - clause ( e ), the following sub - clause 
shall be substituted, namely : 
" ( e ) " Wheat" includes its products other than wheat bran , biscuits , bread, 
cakes and pastries . 

[No. 201 (3 ) / J / 57- PY . II .] 


2874 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 [PART II 


New Delhi, the 16th December 1957 
S .R . O . 4044. - In pursuance of clause 2 ( b ) of the Wheat Roller Flour Mills 
(Licensing and Control) Order , 1957, the Central Government hereby appoints 
the following officers to exercise the powers and perform the duties of Inspectors 
under the said Order, namely 

Shri H . G . V . Reddy , Deputy Director (Food ), Southern Region , Madras . 
Shri M . Jankiraman , Asstt. Director (Food ) , Southern Region , Madras . 
Shri S . C . Tekwani, Assistant Director (Food ), Western Region , Boinbay . 
Shri C . V . Gaekwad , Asstt, Director (Food ) , Western Region , Manmad . 
Shri H . N . Nagar, Asstt. Director (Food ) , Western Region , Nagpur . 
Shri P . V . Tahiliani, Asstt. Director (Food ) , Western Region , Bhopal, 

Shri K . R . Narayan Rao, Asstt . Director (Food ) , Western Region , Ahmedabad . 
and makes the following amendment to the notification of Government of India , 
in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture ( Department of Food ) No. S . R . O . 3082 , 
dated the 25th September , 1957, namely . 

In the said notiAcation , after item 8 the following items shall be inserted , 
namely : 

" 9 . Shri H . G . V . Rcddy, Dry . Director (Food ), Southern Region , Madras. 
10 . Shri M . Jankiraman , Asstt. Director (Food ), Southern Region , Madras . 
11. Shri S . C . Tekwani, Asstt. Director (Food ), Western Region , Bombay . 
12 . Shri Ç . V . Gaekwad , Asstt. Director (Food ), Western Region , Manmad . 
13 . Shri H , N , Nagar, Asstt. Director (Food ) , Western Region , Nagpur, 
14 . Shri P . V . Tahiliani, Asstt. Director (Food ), Western Region , Bhopal. 
15 . Shri K . R . Narayan Rao , Assistant Director ( Food ) , Western Region , 
Ahmedabad .” 

[No. 204 ( 11) / 57- PY . II / FM .] 

B . P . BAGCHI, Jt. Sccy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 12th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4045. - Dr. George Prasadananda Patnaik , L . D .Sc. Anand Bhaban , 
Tulsipur, Cuttack , has been duly elected as a member of the Dental Council of 
India from Orissa under clause ( a ) of section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 (16 of 
1948 ) . with effect from the 29th October , 1957. 

[No, F .6 -8 /57-MI.1 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 

(Department of Transport) 
( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 10th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4046 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 33 of the Indian 
Ports Act 1908 (XV of 1908 ) the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
ing amendments with effcct from 15th February , 1958 , in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Railways (Railway Board ) No. 2101- T . C . 
dated 6th December 1954 , namely : 
In the schedule annexed to the said notification : -- 
(1) the words and figures occurring in the columns (1 ), (2 ) & ( 3 ) in item III 

of the Schedule shall be omitted . 
( 11) The words and brackets " (not being a vessel included in head III of the 
Schedule )" occurring in Note 3 shall be omitted , 

No. F . 17 -PIII (2 ) / 57-PG . ) 


8rc . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 2875 
IS 7 = = = = = - - = S 

- 
S . R . O . 4047. - In cxercise of the powers conferred by section 4 read with sec 
lion 5 of the Madras Out Ports Landing and Shipping Fees Act, 1885 (Madras 
Act III of 1885 ), the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendnients with effect from 15th January 1958 in the notification of the Gov 
ernment of India in the late department of Commerce No. 222 P & L / 33 ( 1 - B ) 
dated the 5th August , 1933 , as amended by notifcation of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Railways No. 2101- TC ( 1 ) dated 26 - 11 - 53 , namely : 

In the Schedule of Landing and Shipping Fees annexed to the said notification 
under the heading 
" 50) Metals, Minerals and Articles of Metal not otherwise classified under 

hardware and machinery " , for the words "manganese and Iron ore " 
occurring against entry P in column 2 the following words shall 
be substituted , namely : - - - 
" Manganese, Chrome and Iron ore" . 

[No. F .17-PIII(2) / 57- PG .] 
S . R . O . 4048 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 35 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (XV of 1908 ) the Central Government here 
by makes the following further amendment in the Rules published with the 
notifcation of the Government of India , in the late Department of Commerce 
No. 222 P & L / 33 / VI dated the 30th September , 1933 namely : - - 

In rule 10 of the said rules after note E the following note shall be inserted 
namely : 
Note F : 

When the dock is used simultaneously by two or more crafts belonging to 
private parties or to other departments of Government the total charges may be 
charged proportionately , the proportion being decided by the Port Administra 
tive Officer , on the basis of floor area orcupied , subject to a limit of not less 
than half the charges prescribed for each vessel but that when craft belonging 
to the Port is docked in combination with other craft of private or other Gov 
ernment ownership , such Port craft will be excluded from calculation of pro 
portionate charges , that is as if the Port craft had not been docked . The dect 
sion of the Port Administrative Officer in the apportionment of charges shall be 
final . 

[No. F . 17- PIII( 2 ) / 87 -P . G .] 
S . R . O . 4049. - In exercise of the powers conferred bly sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
35 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 ( 15 of 1908 ), and in supersession of all previous 
rules on the subject, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules 
regulating the levy of fees for pilotage in the Port of Vizagapatam . 

RULES 
1. Short Title - - These rules may be called the Vizagapatam Port Pilotage 
( fees ) Rules, 1957. 
2 . Definition . In these rules : 

(i) " daylight hours” means the hours from 06 -00 to 18 - 00 hours 
( li) " night hours" means the hours other than " daylight hours " 

and ( iii) " Schedule " means schedule to these rules , 
3 . Fees for pilotage during daylight houts - Fees for pilotage in the port of 
Vizagapalam during daylight hours shall be as specifed in Schedule I. 

4 . Fees for pilotage during night hours.- - Fees for pilotage in the port of 
Vizagapatam during night hours shall be as specified in Schedule II. 

5 . Detention fee . - ( a ) II a vessel is not ready to sail within one hour of hoist 
ing the Pilot Jack . a detention fee of Rs. 40 per hour or part thereof in excess 
of the Arst hour after hoisting the Jack shall be levied . 

( b ) If a vessel is not ready to shift within an hour of hoisting the S Flag, a 
detention fee of Rs. 40 per hour or part thercof in excess of the first hour after 
hoisting the S flag shall be levied . 

( c ) If a vessel is not ready to enter within 15 minutes of the pilot boarding 
the vessel, a detention fee of Rs. 40 per hour or part thereof in excess of the 
Arst 15 minutes after the pilo : boards the vessel at the Roads, shall be levied . 


2876 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 21, 1957/ AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 [ PART II 


6 . Fees for on carriage of pilot. If an outward bound vessel carries away 
a pllot to sea , a compensation of Rs. 40 per day shall be payable for pilots of 
all rank . In addition to this compensation the master of the vessel shall also be 
Lable to bear the expenses of the pilot and the cost of sending him back to 
Vizagapatam . 

SCHEDULE I 
( See Rule 3 ) 


Serial 

No. 


Description of vessel 


Rate of fee 


1 . All mechanically propelled ves Rs. 8 / - per 100 tons of net registered 
sels except sailing vessels not 

tonnage with a minimum charge 
exceeding 500 tons net register 

of Rs. 40 / - per vessel, 
ed tonnage. 
2 . All other vessels when services Rs. 40 / - per vessel. 

of port pilot are actually made 
use of, 
- - 

SCHEDULE II 
( See Rule 4 ) 


1. Vessels of draft upto 26° 0 Rs. 100 / - per vessel plus the fee 
between 18 - 00 hrs. -- 21 - 00 hrs. 

chargeable for such vessel during 
2 . Vessels of draft over 26 0 " 

day light hours , 
between 18 - 00 hrs.-- 21 - 00 hrs . Rs. 200 / - per vessel plus the fee 
3 . Vessels of draft upto 26 0 " 

chargeable for such vessel during 
between 21 -00 hrs , and 06 - 00 hrs . 

day light hours. 
of the next morning . 

Rs. 400 / - per vessel plus the fee 
4 . Vessels of draft over 26 " O " 

chargeable for such vessel during 
between 21 - 00 hrs . and 06 - 00 

day light hours . 
hrs , of the next morning . 

Rs. 1, 000 per vessel plus the fee 
5 . Mechanically propelled vessels 

chargeable for such vessel during 
of less than 200 tons net regis 

day light hours, 
tered tonnage or sailing vessels Rs. 40 / - per vessel plus the fee 
of less than 500 tons net regis 

chargeable for such vessel s during 
tered tonnage . 

day light hours . 

(No. 7 .17- PIII (2)/ 57-PG .) 
S . R . O . 4050. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 35 of the Indian Ports Act , 1908 (XV of 1908 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the rules published with 
the notification of the Government of India in the late department of Com 
merce No. 222- P & L / 33 / VI dated the 30th September, 1933 and as amended 
from time to time namely : — 

For sub rule (5 ) of rule 11 of the said rules, the following shall be substi 
tuted namely : 
“ ( 5 ). Hopper Barges : Rs. 40 for the first 4 hours or part thereof plus 
Rs, 10 for every extra hour." 

[No. F .17 -PIII( 2)57 / PG . ] 
S .R . O . 4051. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 read with sec 
tion 5 of the Madras Out Ports Landing and Shipping Fees Act , 1885 (Madras 
Act III of 1885 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendments with effect from 15th January 1958 in the notification of the Gov 
ernment of India in the Department of Commerce No . 222 P & L / 22 ( 1 - A ) dated 
the 5th August, 1933 , namely : 
In the schedule of Landing and Shipping Fees annexed to the said notifica 

tion under the sub -heading " 72 Tobacco and Smoker s requisites" 
for items E . 1 and E .2 and the entries against such items, the follow 
ing shall be substituted , namely : 


Unit 


No. of Description of goods 
Item , 


Rate 
Rs. And naye paise 


E 


Tobacco raw country 


Ton 


2 -00 


[NO. F .17 -PIII( 2 ) / 57 -P .G . ] 


Sec . 9) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 


2877 


S . R . O . 4052 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 35 of the Indian Ports Act (XV of 1908) the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendments in the rules published with the noti 
Acation of the Government of India in the late Department of Commerce No . 
222- P & L / VI dated the 30th September 1933 namely : 

In rule 3A of the said rule after sub -rule ( vl) the following sub -rule shall 
be inserted , namely : 
" ( vii ) For Shifting & dumb 

barge or floating craft 
from one place to another 
within the inner harbour. 

Rs. 20 per each operation . 

(No. 7 . 17 - PIII(2) / 57-PG .) 
D . A . R . WARRIAR , Under Secy . 


( Dopartment of Transport) 

( Transport Wing ) 

New Delhi, the 12th December 1957 
S . ... 0 . 4053 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 11, 
clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 14 and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services ( Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules , 1967, the President 
hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made in the Schedule to 
the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Transport 
No. S . R . O . 610 , dated the 28th February , 1957 namely : 
In the said Schedule : 
( 1 ) in Part II for the existing entries relating to " Regional Sailing Vessels 

Organisation , Bombay /Madras /Masulipatam " , the following shall be 

substituted , namely : 
" Regional Sailing Vessels 
Organisation , Bombay ! 
Tuticorin )Masulipaiam . 


2 


3 


All 


posts . Deputy Director 

General of Shipp 
ing, Bombay, 
incharge of 
sailing cssels . 


Deputy Director 
Gencral of Shipp 
ing , Bombay , in 
charge of sailing 
vessels , 


Director 
General of 
Shipping , 
Bombay ." 


( 2 ) in Part III for the existing entries relating to " Regional Sailing Vessels 

Organisation , Bombay /Madras /Masulipatam " the following shall be 

substituted , namely : 
Regional Saling Vessels 
Organisation , Bombay ! 
Tulicorin Masulipatam , 


All 


AU 


posts . 


Deputy Director 
General of Shipp 
int, Bombay , 
Incharge of 
sailing 
vessels . 


Deputy Director 
General of Shipp 
ing , Bombay, 
incharge of 
sailing 
Vessels , 


Director 
General of 
Shipping , 
Bombay. " 


[No. 40 -MS (213 )/87.). 
C , P , SRIVASTAVA , Dy . Secy . 


2878 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 [PART II 


u 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 13th December 1957 
8 . R . O . 4054 . — The following draft of a further amendment to the Explosives 
Rules , 1940 , which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the 
powers conferred by sections 5 and 7 of the Indian Explosives Act, 1884 ( 4 of 
1884 ) , is published as required by section 18 of the said Act, for the information 
of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby given that the 
said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 24th January, 1968 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendment : 
In the said Rules: 
In the second proviso to sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 91 , after the words " 2 Sub 

Divisional Magistrate the words " or an Executive First Class 
Magistrate" shall be inserted . 

[ No. S .& P , II-Exp. 2 ( 5 ) / 57. ] 
New Delhi, the 13th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4055 .- - The following rules for a competitive examination to be held 
by the Union Public Service Commission in July 1958 for the purpose of falling 
vacancies in the Central Engineering Service , Class I are published for general 
information . 

RULES 
1. For the purpose of these Rules 

( a ) "Government" means the Government of India , 
( b ) " The Commission" means the Union Public Service Commission , 
( c ) " The Service" means the Central Engineering Service , Class I, parti 

culars in respect of which are given in Appendix IV . 
2 . A competitive examination for admission to the Service shall be held in 
India at such times and places as may be prescribed in the Notice issued by the 
Commission . Every such notice will, when possible , announce the number of 
vacancies to be filled on the result of the examination , 

3 . If the examination held under this part of these Rules is a combined exami 
nation for the purpose of making appointments to more than one Service or 
Department, the following provisions shall apply : 
( a ) Any person may apply to the admitted as a candidate for appointment 

in all or any of these Services or Departments for which he is eligible . 
If he wishes to compete for appointment in more than one Service 
or Department, he shall state in his application from which Services 
or Departments he wishes to compete for and the order of his pre 
ference for them , and in such cases only one application form will 
be necessary and one payment of the fees referred to in rule 14 ( and 

Appendix III ) will be sufficient. 
( b ) Government shall assign successful candidates to each Service or 

Department on a consideration of all circumstances including any 

personal preference expressed by the candidate . 
4 . The maximum number of candidates to be admitted to any examination 
may at the discretion of the Commission be limited to such number , not being 
less than 200, as the Commission may decide. If a limit is imposed and the 
number of candidates exceeds that limit , the Commission shall select from the 
applicants those who shall be admitted to the examination , and in doing so ghall 
have regard to the suitability of the applicants . 

8 . A candidate must apply to be admitted to the examination before such date , 
in such manner , and in such form as the Commission may prescribes 
8 . A candidate must be either 

( a ) a citizen of India , or 
( b ) a subject of Sikkim , or 
( c ) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan with the 

intention of permanently settling in India , or 
( d ) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or former French possession in 

India . 


SEC. $ ] THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 80 , 1879 2870 

- - - - - - - - M I 

- = - - . 
NOTE 1. - - The appointment of candidates in categories ( c ) and ( d ) above will 
be subject to the issue of certificates of eligibility in their favour by the Govern 
ment of India . The certifcate of eligibility in respect of candidates belonging to 
category ( c ) will be valid only for a period of one year from the date of his 
appointment beyond which he would be retained in service only if he has become 
a citizen of India . Certificates of eligibility will not, however, be necessary in 
the case of candidates belonging to any one of the following categories: 
( 1) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July 

1948 , and have ordinarily been residing in India since then . 
(2 ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th July 1948 , 

but before tho 30th September 1948 and got themselves registered 

As citizen within the time allowed 
( 3 ) Non - citizens who entered service under the Government of India 

before the commencement of the Constitution , viz ., 26th January , 
1050 and who have continued in such service since then . Any such 
person who re - entered or may re - enter such service with break 
after the 26th January 1950, will, however , require certificate of 

eligibility in the usual way . 
NOTE 2 . - - A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary 
may be admitted to the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by 
Government, 

7 . ( a ) No male candidate who has more than one wife living shall be eligiblo 
for , appointment to any of the Service appointments to which are made on the 
results of this competitive examination unless the Government of India after 
being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so , exempt any male 
candidate from the operation of this rule . 

( b ) No female candidate who has married a person having already a wife 
living shall be eligible for appointment to the service unless the Government of 
India after being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so , exempt 
any female candidate from the operation of this rule . 

8 . On the date prescribed by the Commission in their Notice of examina 
tion issued under Rule 2 , a candidate must have attained the age of 20 and 
must not have attained the age of 25 provided that the upper age limit of 25 
will be relaxable upto 28 in the case of candidates who are permanently employed 
in the Central Public Works Department or who were continuously in temporary 
service under the Central Public Works Department for at least 3 years or who 
were within the above specified age limits on the date of their employment in 
the Central Public Works Department, such relaxation being limited to two 
examinations only . 

Departmental candidates must obtain previous permission of the Head of the 
Department to appear for the examination . 
NOTE . — The upper age limits prescribed above will be relaxable : 
(i ) Upto a maximum of five years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Caste or a Scheduled Tribe. 
( ii ) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a bona fide displaced 

person from Pakistan or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and 

Kashmir . 
This concession will not, however , be admissible to a candidate who has 
already appeared at five previous examinations or in the case of those employed 
in the Central Public Works Department at seven previous examinations, 
( 111) Upto a maximum of eight years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Caste or a Scheduled Tribe and is also a bona fide displaced person 

from Pakistan or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir . 
This concession will not , however , be admissible to a candidate who has 
already appeared at ten previous examinations or in the case of those employed 
in the Central Public Works Department at twelve previous examinations. 
( iv ) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a resident of the 

former French Settlements which have now become part of India 
and has been receiving his education through the medium of 

French . 
( v ) Upto a maximum of 4 years if a candidate belongs to the Andaman 

and Nicobar Islands. 


288 . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA DECEMBER 21 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 50 , 1879 [PART II 


SAVE AS PROVIDED ABOVE THE AGE LIMITS PRESCRIBED CAN IN NO 

CASE BE RELAXED 
9 A candidate must satisfy the Commission that his character is such as to 
make him suitable for appointment to the Service / Department. 
10. A candidate must have 
( a ) obtained a degree in Engineering from a university incorporated by an 

Act of the Central or of a State Legislature in India ; or 
( b ) passed Sections A and B of the Associate Membership Examination of 

the Institution of Engineers ( India ) or have any other educational 
qualifications, excepting a BE degree ( Tele - Communication ) award 
ed by Indian Universities, recognized by that institution as exempt 

ing from passing these section ; or 
( c ) obtained an engineering degree of one of the universities mentioned 

in Appendix I under the conditions prescribed in that Appendix ; or 
( d ) passed the Honours Diploma examination in Cıvıl , Mechanical or 

Electrical Engineering of the Loughborough College, Leicestershire , 
provided the candidate has passed the common preliminary examina 

tion or has been exempted therefrom 
NOTE IIn exceptional cases the Commission may treat a candidate , who has 
not any of the foregoing qualifications, as a qualified candidate provided that he 
has passed examinations conducted by other institutions, the standard of which , 
in the opinion of the Commission justifies his admission to the examination , 

NOTE II - Candidates who have appeared at an examination the passing of 
which would render them eligible to appear at this examination , but have not 
been informed of the result , may apply for admission to the examination Candi 
dates who intend to appear at such a qualifying examination may also apply 
provided that the qualifying examination is completed before the commencement 
of this examination Their applications will be accepted provisionally and they 
will be required to furnish proof of having passed the examination as soon as 
possible and in any case not later than two months after the commencement of 
this examination 

11. No candidate shall be admitted to the examination unless he holds a certi 
ficate of admission from the Commission 

The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candi 
date for admission to the competitive examination shall be final. 

12 A candidate found guilty of impersonation or of submitting fabricated 
decuments or documents which have been tampered with or of making statements 
which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information or of using or 
attempting to use unfair means in the examination hall or otherwise resorting 
to any other irregular or improper means for obtaining admission to the exami 
nation may , in addition to rendering himself liable to a criminal prosecution , be 
debarred either permanently or for a specified period , 
( a ) by the Commission from admission to any examination or appearance 

at any interview held by the Commission for selection of candidates , 

and 
(b ) by the Central Government from employment under the Government. 
13 No recommendations except those required in the application form shall 
be taken into consideration Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain 
support for his candidature by other means may disqualify him for admission 

14 Candidates must pay such examination fees as Government may prescribe 
( see Appendix III ) No claim for a refund of any of these fees will ordinarily 
be entertained , nor can they be held in reserve for any other examination or 
selection . 

15 Examination under these Rules shall be conducted by the Commission in 
the manner prescribed in Appendix II. 


16 ( a ) After every examination , the Commission shall make a list of candidates 
In order of their merit as disclosed by the aggregate marks finally awarded to 
each candidates and in that order, so many candidates upto the number of 
vacancies announced under Rule 2 above, as are found by the Commission to be 
qualified by the examination , and are considered by Government to be sultable 
in all other respects, shall be appointed 


SEC. 5 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 90 , 1879 2881 


(b ) Appointments to vacancies to be Alled by members of a particular com 
munity or communities shall be made by Government or the appointing authority 
as the case may be , in the order of merit of the candidates belonging to the 
particular community or communities, provided they have qualified in the 
examination and are in all respects suitable for employment in the service , 

( c ) Success in the examination confers no right to appointment, unless Goy 
ernment are satisfied , after such enquiry as may be considered necessary that the 
candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the public Service, 

17 . A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health and free from any 
physical defect likely to interfere with the efficient performance of the duties of 
a member of the Service , and a candidate who is found after examination by a 
Medical Board not to satisfy these requirements will not be appointed . Only 
those candidates who are likely to the considered for appointment will be 
physically examined . 

In order to prevent disappointment candidates are advised to have themselves 
examined by a Government medical officer of the standing of a Civil Surgeon , 
before applying for admission to the examination . Particulars of the nature of 
the medical test to which candidates will be submitted before appointment and 
of the standards required can be had from the Commission , 

18 . ( a ) The selected candidates shall be appointed as Agsistant Executive 
Engineers on probation for two years . Their pay shall commence from the date 
of appointment under these rules and their service for increments , leave and 
pension shall count from the same date. In the event of more than one candidate 
being appointed , their seniority inter se shall be determined according to their 
position in the competitive examination 

( b ) On the completion of the period of probation , the Assistant Executive 
Engineers shall, iſ considered fit for permanent appointment, be confirmed in 
their appointments , 

( c ) The Government may extend the period of two years specified in sub - rule 
( a ) above. 


( d ) If on the expiration of the period of probation referred to in sub - rule ( a ) 
above or of any extension thereof under sub - rule ( c ) above as the case may be , 
the Government are of opinion that an Assistant Executive Engineer is not fit for 
permanent employment, or if at any time during such period of probation or 
extension they are satisfied that an Assistant Executive Engineer will not be At 
for permanent appointment on the expiration of such period or extension they may 
discharge the Assistant Executive Engineer or pass such order as they think Alt . 

( e ) If no action is taken by Government under sub - rule ( b ) or ( c ) or ( d ) 
of this rule , the period after the prescribed period of probation shall be treated 
as an engagement from month to month terminable on either side on the expira 
tion of on calendar month s notice in writing . 

19 . Probationers will also be required to pass a test in Hindi before confirma 


tion . 


APPENDIX I 
List of University degrees which will be recognised for admission to the 

Examination [ vide rule 10 ( c ) ] 
Aberdeen. - B . Sc . Engineering (Honours or Ordinary Degree) . 

Cambridge. - Ordinary degrec B . A . in Engineering provided the graduate has 
passed in the principal subjects, Engineering I, Engineering II and Engineering 
III. 


Durham . - B .Sc . in Marine Engineering . 
Glasgow . B .Sc. in Naval Architecture ( Honours or Ordinary Degree ) . 

NOTE . The above degrees will be accepted only if taken after three years 
study and the passing of the regular examinations in the several Universities . 
The conditions as to three years study will not however , apply to Indians who 
having taken an Indian degree which exempts them from part of the University 
Coursē shall have taken one of the above degrees in less than three vears in 
accordance with the regulations of the University concerned . 


2882 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1987 / AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 (Part II 


300 


100 


100 


APPENDIX II 
Standard and Syllabus of the examination (vide Rule 15 ) 
Subjects 

Marks. 
(a ) Compulsory : 
( 1 ) English ( including Essay and Precis writing ) 

100 
( 2 ) General Knowledge 

100 
( 3 ) Applied Mechanics ( including Strength of Materials and 
Theory of Structures ) 

200 
( 4 ) Construction : 
Paper i 
(i) Building Materials and Building Construction 1001 

200 
( ii ) Design of Structures 

100 ) 
Paper II 
Roads, Railways (General principles governing the design of Railways, 

Roads, Hurbours and other works ) . 
(5 ) Surveying 

100 
(8 ) Sanitary Engineering and Water Supply 

100 
( 7 ) Personality Test 
( b ) Optional: 
Any two of the following subjects : 
( 1 ) Prime Movers 

100 
( 2 ) Hydraulic and Hydraulic Machines 

100 
( 3 ) Electrical Engineering 

100 
(4 ) Architecture and Town Planning 

( 5 ) Mechanical Enginecring 
NOTE 1. — All papers must be answered in English . 

NOTE 2 - Candidates must write the paper in their own hand . In no circum 
stances will they be allowed the help of an amanuensis ( scribe ) to write down 
answers for them . 

2 . A candidate must produce a certificate that he has undergone satisfactory 
training in Surveying, including practical surveying in a College or institution 
recognised by the Commission for the purpose of admission to the competitive 
examination for the Service . The training must be equivalent to that given in 
the full course for a degrce or diploma in Civil Engineering. The certificate must 
be signed by the Principal or the Head of the Department of Surveying in the 
College or Institution . 

For this purpose the Commission will ordinarily accept a certificate from any 
college or institution mentioned in Rule 10 of the foregoing rules or from any 
college which is affiliated to any University mentioned in the same Rule . The 
Commission , however , reserve to themselves the power not to accept any certifi 
cate if they are satisfied that the practical training referred to therein falls short 
of the requirements of the Service, and their decision in the matter will be 
Anal. 

3 . The standard and syllabus of the examination will be such as the Com 
mission shall prescribe. 

4 , The Commission have discretion to fix qualifying marks in any or all the 
subjects at the examination , 

5 . The Commission will summon at their discretion only those candidates whom 
they consider suitable for interview for the Personality Test. 

6 . Special attention will be paid in the Personality Test to assessing the 
candidates capacity for leadership , initiative and intellectual curiosity , tact and 
other social qualities , mental and physical energy, powers of practical application 
and integrity of character . 

7 . From the marks assigned to candidates in each subject such deduction will 
be made as the Commission may consider necessary in order to secure that no 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge. 


LIC. 9] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 90, 1879 2887 
- - 


8. Deductions up to 5 per cent. of the maximum marks for the written subjects 
will be made for illegible handwriting, 

9 . Credit will be given for good English including orderly ; effective and exact 
expression combined with due economy of words in all subjects of the examination 
and not only in subjects which are specially devoted to English . 


APPENDIX III 

Fees 


(See Rule 14 ) 
Candidates seeking admission to the examination must pay the following 
fees : 
( a ) To the Commission : 

( i) Re . 1/ - when asking for application form and connected documents. 
This amount should be paid to the Commission by Money Order , Local 

candidates , however , may pay cash at the counter, The Commission 

will not accept payment made otherwise , 
( it ) Rs. 81. 50 (Rs. 19 .62 — in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled 

Castes and Scheduled Tribes ) with the completed application form . 
This amount should be paid by means of Treasury Receipt or CROSSED 

Indian Postal Orders payable to Secretary Union Public Service Com 

mission . The Commission will not accept payment made otherwise. 
( b ) To the Medical Board : -- 
Rs. 16 / - before examination by a Medical Board , if selected for appoint. 

ment. 
This amount should be paid in cash to the Medical Board concerned at the 

time of the Medical examination . 
2 . Once an application has been considered by the Commission and the decision 
communicated to the candidate , no claim from the candidate for a refund of the 
fee paid by him to the Commission will ordinarily be entertained nor can this fee 
be held in reserve for any other examination or selection . If, however, a candi 
date is not admitted to the examination by the Commission , a refund of 
Rs. 75 / - ( Rs. 18 . 75 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes ) will be made to him . 

3 . The Commission may at their discretion remit the prescribed fee where 
they are satisfied that the applicant is a bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan 
or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir and is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee . The fee of Re. 1 / -, however , must be paid even by a 
displaced person when asking the Commission for form and this amount will be 
refundable to him , if on receipt of his application , his claim to be a displaced 
person is accepted by the Commission and his fee is remitted . 


APPENDIX IV 
Brief particulars regarding the Central Engineering Service , Class I 
1. Persons recruited to the Service through competitive examination shall be 
on probation for a period of at least two years and they will receive pay in the 
time scale of Rs. 350 - 350 — 380 — 3804- 30590 E . B . - 30 — 770 — 40 - 850 . " On com 
pletion of the probationary period, if they have passed the prescribed depart 
mental examinations and are considered fit for permanent appointment, they will 
be confirmed as Assistant Executive Engineers . 

2 . The Central Engineering Service Class I, comprises a number of superior 
posts as follows : 
I. Executive Engineers -- Rs. 600 — 40 — 1 ,000 — 1,000 — 1,050 – 1,050 — 1, 100 

1 , 100 — 1, 150. 
II. Administrative (Selection ) Posts — 

Superintending Engineers - Rs. 1, 300 — 60 - - 1,600 . 
Chief Engineer — ( i) Rs. 2 ,000 — 125 — 2,250. 

( ii) Rs. 1,800 — 100 — 2,000 . 
3 . Provident Fund . Officers entering the Service, will be eligible to join the 
General Provident Fund and will be governed by the Rules regulating that Fund . 

[No. EWI- 15 ( 9 ) / 57-1.] 


2884 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 [Part II 


S .R . O . 4056 . - The following rules for a competitive examination to be held 
by the Union Public Service Commission in July , 1958, for the purpose of Alling 
vacancies in the Central Engineering Service Class II are published for general 
information : 

RULES 
1. For the purpose of these Rules: - - 

( a ) " Government" means the Government of India . 
( b ) " The Commission ” means the Union Public Service Commission 
( c ) " The Service " means the Central Engineering Service, Class II, parti 

culars in respect of which are given in Appendix IV , 
2. A competitive examination for admission to the Service shall be held in 
India at such times and places as may be prescribed in the Notice issued by the 
Commission . Every such Notice will, when possible , announce the number of 
vacancies to be filled on the result of the examination . 

3 . If the examination held under this part of these Rules is a combined cxami 
nation for the purpose of making appointments to more than one service or 
Department, the following provisions shall apply : 


( a ) Any person may apply to be admitted as a candidate for appointment 

in all or any of these Services or Departments for which he is eligible , 
If he wishes to compete for appointment in more than one Service 
or Department, he shall state in his application form which Services 
or Departments he wishes to compete for and the order of his prefer 
ence for them , and in such case only one application form will be 
necessary and one payment of the fees referred to in rule 14 ( and 

Appendix III ) will be sufficient. 
( b ) Government shall assign successful candidates to each Service or 

Department on a consideration of all circumstances including any 

personal preference expressed by the candidate . 
4 . The maximum number of candidates to be admitted to any examination 
may at the discretion of the Commission be limited to such number, not being 
less than 200 , as the Commission may decide. If a Umit is imposed and the 
number of candidates exceeds that limit, the Commission shall select from the 
applicants those who shall be admitted to the examination , and in doing so shall 
have regard to the suitability of the applicants . 

5. A candidate must apply to be admitted to the examination before such 
date . in such manner, and in such form as the Commission may prescribe. 
6 . A candidate must be either : 

( a ) a citizen of India, or 
(b ) a subject of Sikkim , or 
( c ) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan with the 

intention of permanently settling in India , or 
( d ) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or former French possession in 

India . 
NOTE 1 . – Tho appointment of candidates in categories ( c ) and ( d ) above will 
be subject to the issue of certificates of cligibility in their favour by the Govern 
ment of India . The certificate of eligibility in respect of candidates belonging 
to category ( c ) will be valid only for a period of one year from the date of his 
appointment beyond which he would be retained in service only if he has 
become a citizen of India . Certificates of eligibility will not , however , he 
necessary in the case of candidates belonging to any one of the following cate 
gories : — 
( 1 ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July 

1948 , and have ordinarily been residing in India since then , 
( 2 ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th July 1948 , 

but before the 30th September 1948 and got themselyes registered 

as citizens within the time allowed . 
( 3 ) Non - citizens who cntered service under the Government of India 

before the commencement of the Constitution , viz ., 26th January , 
1950 and who have continued in such scrvice since then . Any such 


BBC , 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957, AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 2885 


person who re - entered or may re - enter such service with break after 
the 26th January 1950 , will, however, require certificate of eligibility 

in the usual way . 
NOTE 2 . - A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary may 
be admitted by the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by 
Government. 

1. ( a ) No male candidate who has more than one wife living shall be eligible 
for appointment to any of the Services appointments to which are made on the 
results of this competitive examination unless the Government of India after 
being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempt any male 
candidate from the operation of this rule . 

( b ) No female candidate who has married a person having already a wife 
living shall be eligible for appointment to the service unless the Government of 
India after being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so , exempt 
any female candidate from the operation of this rule . 

8 . On the date prescribed by the Commission in their Notice of the examina 
tion issued under Rule 2 , a candidate must have attained the age of 20 and must 
not have attained the age of 25 provided that the upper age limit of 25 will be 
relaxable upto 28 in the case of candidates who are permanently employed in 
the Central Public Works Department or who were continuously in temporary 
service under the Central Public Works Department for at least 3 years or who 
were within the above specified age limits on the date of their employment in 
the Central Public Works Department, such relaxation being limited to two 
examinations only . 

Departmental candidates must obtain previous permission of the Head of the 
Department to appear for the examination . 
NOTE .-. - The upper age limits prescribed above will be relaxable : 
( i) Upto a maximum of five years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Caste or a Scheduled Tribe, 
( ii) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a bonafide displaced 

person from Pakistan or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and 
Kashmir . 


This concession will not, however, be admissible to a candidate who has 
already appeared at five previous examinations or in the case of those employed 
in the Central Public Works Department at seven previous examinations. 
( iii) Upto a maximum of eight years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Caste or a Scheduled Tribe and is also a bonafide displaced person 

from Pakistan or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir . 
This concession will not , however , be admissible to a candidate who has 
already appeared at ten previous examinations or in the case of those employed 
in the Central Public Works Department at twelve previous examinations. 
( iv ) Upto a maximum of thrce years if a candidate is a resident of the 

former French Settlements which have now become part of India 

and has been receiving his cducation through the medium of French . 
( v ) Upto a maximum of 4 years if a candidate belongs to the Andaman 

and Nicobar Islands . 
SAVE AS PROVIDED ABOVE THE AGE LIMITS PRESCRIBED CAN IN NO 

CASE BE RELAXED 
9 . A candidate must satisfy the Commission that his character is such as to 
make him suitable for appointment to the Service / Department. 
10 . A candidate must have 
( a ) obtained a degree in Engineering from a university incorporated by 

an Act of the Central or of a State Legislature in Indla ; or 
(b ) passed Sections A and B of the Associate Membership Examination 

of the Institution of Engineers ( India ) or have any other educational 
qualifications excepting the B . E , degrec ( Tele - communication ) 
awarded by Indian Universities recognised by that institution as 
exempting from passing these sections; or 


2886 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 80 , 1879 [PART II 


( c ) obtained an engineering degree of one of the universities mentioned 

in Appendix I under the conditions prescribed in that Appendix , 


or 


( d ) passed the Honours Diploma examination in Civil, Mechanical or 

Electrical Engineering of the Loughborough College, Leicestershire 
provided the candidate has passed the common preliminary exami 

nation or has been exempted therefrom , 
NOTE 1. — In exceptional cases the Commission may treat a candidate , who has 
not any of the foregoing qualifications, as a qualified candidate , provided that 
he has passed examinations conducted by other institutions, the standard of 
which , in the opinion of the Commission justifies his admission to the cxami 
nation . 

NOTE II .- - Candidates who have appeared at an examination the passing of 
which would render them eligible to appear at this examination , but have not 
been informed of the result, may apply for admission to the examination . Candi 
dates who intend to appear at such a qualifying examination may also apply , 
provided that the qualifying examination is completed before the commencement 
of this examination . Their applications will be accepted provisionally and they 
will be required to furnish proof of having passed the examination as soon as 
possible and in any case not later than two months after the commencement of 
this examination . 

11 . No candidate shall be admitted to the examination unless he holds a 
certificate of admission from the Commission . . 

The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candi 
date for admission to the competitive examination shall be final. 

12 . A candidate found guilty of impersonation or of submitting fabricated 
documents or documents which have been tampered with or of making state 
ments which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information or of 
using or attempting to use unfair means in the examination hall or otherwise 
resorting to any other irregular or improper means for obtaining admission to 
the examination may, in addition to rendering himself liable to a criminal prosc 
cution be debarred either permanently or for a specific period 
( a ) by the Commission from admission to any examination or appearance 

at any interview held by the Commission for selection of candidates ; 
and 


( b ) by the Central Government from employment under the Government . 


13 . No recommendations except those required in the application form shall 
be taken into consideration . Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain 
support for his candidaturc by other means may disqualify him for admission . 


14 . Candidates must pay such examination fees as Government may prescribe 
(see Appendix III ) . No claim for a refund of any of these will ordinarily be 
entertained , nor can they be held in reserve for any other examination or 
selection , 


15 . Examination under these Rules shall be conducted by the Commission in 
the manner prescribed in Appendix II . 

16 . ( a ) After every examination , the Commission shall make a list of Candi 
dates in order of their merit as disclosed by the aggregate marks finally awarded 
to each candidate, and in that order , so many candidates upto the number of 
vacancies announced under Rule 2 above, as are found by the Commission to 
be qualified by the cxamination , and are considered by Government to be suit 
able in all other respects , shall be appointed . 

( b ) Appointments to vacancies to be Alled by members of a particular com 
munity or communities shall be made by Government or the appointing authority 
as the case may be , in the order of merit of the candidates belonging to the 
particular community or communities, provided they have qualified in the exami 
nation and are in all respects suitable for employment in the service . 

( c) Success in the examination confers no right to appointment, unless 
Government are satisfied , after such enquiry as may be considered necessary 
that the candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the Public Service . 


Sec. 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1997 /AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 2887 


17. A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health and free from any 
physical defect likely to interfere with the efficient performance of the duties of 
a member of the Service , and a candidate who is found after examination by 
a Medical Board not to satisfy these requirements will not be appointed . Only 
those candidates who are likely to be considered for appointment will be 
physically examined . 

In order to prevent disappointment candidates are advised to have them 
selves examined by a Government medical officer of the standing of a Civil 
Surgeon , before applying for admission to the examination Particulars of the 
nature of the medical test to which candidates will be submitted before appoint 
ment and of the standards required can be had from the Commission . 

18 . ( a ) The selected candidates shall be appointed as Assistant Engineers on 
probation for two years . Their pay shall commence from the date of appointment 
under these rules and their service for increments , leave and pension shall count 
from the same date . In the event of more than one candidate being appointed , 
their senjority inter se shall be determined according to their position in the 
competitive examination . 

( b ) On the completion of the period of probation the Ansistant Engineers 
shall, if considered At for permanent appointment, be confirmed in their appoint 
ments . 

( c ) The Government may extend the period of two years specified in sub - rule 
( a ) above. 

( d ) If on the expiration of the period of probation referred to in sub - rule 
( a ) above or of any extension thereof under sub - rule ( c ) above as the case may 
be, the Government are of opinion that an Assistant Engineer is not fit for per 
manent employment or if at any time during such period of probation or exten 
sion they are satisfied that an Assistant Engineer will not be At for permanent 
appointment on the expiration of such period or extension , they may discharge 
the Assistant Engineer or pass such order as they think fit. 

( e ) If no action is taken by Government under sub - rule (b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) of 
this rule , the period after the prescribed period of probation shall be treated 
as an engagement from month to month terminable on either side on the expira 
tion of one calendar month s notice in writing . 

19 . Probationers will also be required to pass a test in Hindi before confir 
mation . 


APPENDIX I 
List of University degrees which will be recognised for admission to the 

examination [ vide rule 10 ( c ) . ] 
Aberdeen . - B .Sc. Engineering (Honours or Ordinary Degree ) . 

Cambridge. - Ordinary degree B . A . in Engineering provided the graduate has 
passed in the principal subjects, Engineering I, Engineering II and Engineering 
III, 

Durham . - B . Sc . in Marine Engineering. 
Glasgow .- B .Sc. in Naval Architecture (Honours or Ordinary Degree ) . 

NOTE - - The above degrees will be accepted only if taken after three years 
study and the passing of the regular examinations in the several Universities . 
The conditions as to three years study will not, however , apply to Indians who , 
having taken an Indian degree , which exempts them from part of the University 
course , shall have taken one of the above degrees in less than three years in 
accordance with the regulations of the University concerned . 

APPENDIX II 
Standard and Syllabus of the examination ( vide Rule 15 ) 
Subjects 

Marks 
(a ) Compulsory : 
(1 ) English ( including Essay and precis writing) 

100 
( 2 ) General Knowledge 

100 
( 3 ) Applied Mechanics ( including Strength of Materials and 
Theory of Structres ) 

200 
(4 ) Construction : Paper I 

( 1) Building Materials and Building Construction 

( ii ) Design of Structures 
Paper 11 


100 


100 ? 


$ 200 


IQO 


2888 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 [PART II 


Subjects 


Marks 


Roads, Railways 


100 


(General principles governing the design of Railways, Roads , 

Harbours and other works) 
( 5 ) Surveying 
(6 ) Sanitary Engineering and Water Supply 
( 7 ) Personality Test 


100 


300 


TOTAL 


1 , 100 


100 
100 


. . 


(b ) Optional: - Any two of the following subjects : 

( 1) Prime Movers 
( 2 ) Hydraulics and Hydraulic Machines 
( 3 ) Electrical Engineering 

( 4 ) Mechanical Engineering 
NOTE 1 . - All papers must be answered in English . 


100 
100 


NOTE 2 . — Candidates must write the papers in their own hand . In no circum 
stances will they be allowed the help of an amanuensis ( scribe ) to write down 
answers for them . 


2 . A candidate must produce a certificate that he has undergone satisfactory 
training in Surveying , including practical surveying in a College or institution 
recognised by the Commission for the purpose of admission to the competitive 
examination for the Service. The training must be equivalent to that given in 
the full course for a degree or diploma in Civil Engineering . The certificate must 
be signed by the Principal or the Head of the Department of Surveying in the 
College or Institution , 


For this purpose the Commission will ordinarily accept a certificate from any 
college or institution mentioned in Rule 10 of the foregoing rules or from any 
college which is affiliated to any University mentioned in the same Rule . The 
Commission , however. reserve to themselves the power not to accept any certi 
ficate if they are satisfied that the practical training referred to therein falls 
short of the requirements of the Service , and their decision in the matter will 
be Anal, 


3 . The standard and syllabus of the examination will be such as the Commis 
sion shall prescribe. 

4 . The Commission have discretion to flx qualifying marks in any or all the 
subjects at the examination , 


5 . The Commission will summon at their discretion only those candidates 
whom they consider suitable for interview for the Personality Test. 

6 . Special attention will be paid in the Personality Test to assessing the candi 
dates capacity for leadership , initiative and intellectual curiosity , tact and other 
social qualities , mental and physical energy , powers of practical application and 
Integrity of character . 

7 . From the marks assigned to candidates in each subject such deduction will 
be made as the Commission may consider ncccssary in order to secure that no 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge . 

8 . Deductions up to 5 per cent of the maximum marks for the written subjects 
will be made for Illegible handwriting. 

9 . Credit will be given for good English including orderly , effective and exact 
expression combined with due economy of words in all subjects of the exami 
nation and not only in subjects which are specially devoted to English , 


Sec. 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 2889 


APPENDIX 

Fees 

( See Rule 4 ) 
Candidates seeking admission to the examination must pay the following 
fees : 
( a ) To the Commission : 

(1) Re. 1 / - when asking for application form and connected documents. 
This amount should be paid to the Commission by Money Order . Local 

candidates, however , may pay cash at the counter. The Commission 

will not accept payment madę otherwise . 
( ii ) Rs. 81. 50 (Rs. 19 . 62 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled 

Castes and Scheduled Tribes ) with the completed application form . 
This amount should be paid by means of Treasury Receipt or CROSSED 

Indian Postal Orders payable to Secretary , Union Public Service 
Commission . The Commission will not accept payment made other 

wise . 
( b ) To the Medical Board ; 
Rs. 16 / - before examination by a Medical Board , if selected for appoint 

ment. 
This amount should be paid in cash to the Medical Board concerned at 

the time of the Medical examination . 
2 . Once an application has been considered by the Commission and the deci 
sion communicated to the candidate , no claim from the candidate for a refund 
of the fee paid by him to the Commission will ordinarily be entertained nor can 
this fee be held in reserve for any other examination or selection , If, however, 
a candidate is not admitted to the examination by the Commission , a refund 
of Rs. 75 / - ( Rs. 18 . 75 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes ) will be made to him . 

3 . The Commission may at their discretion remit the prescribed fee where 
they are satisfied that the upplicant is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan 
or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir and is not in a position 
to pay the prescribed fee . The fee of Re. 1 / - however , must be paid even by 
a displaced person when asking the Commission for form and this amount will 
be refundable to him , if on receipt of his application , his claim to be a displaced 
person is accepted by the Commission and his fee is remitted . 

APPENDIX IV 
Brief particulars regarding the Central Engineering Service , Class II 
1. Persons recruited to the Service through the competitive examination shall 
be on probation for a period of at least two years and they will receive pay in 
the time scale of Rs. 275 - 25 - 500 - E . B . - 30650 E . B - 30800 . On completion 
of the probationary period , if they have passed the prescribed departmental exami 
nations and are considered fit for permanent appointment, they will be confirmed 
as Assistant Engineers. 

2 . The Central Engineering Service , Class II, consists of a number of posts of 
Assistant Engineers ( Sub - Divisional Officers) but persons recruited to the Service 
will be eligible for promotion to the Central Engineering Service, Class I, if they 
fulfl the conditions laid down in the recruitment rules for that service . The 
Central Engineering Service , Class I, comprises a number of superior posts as 
follows: 
I. Executive Engincers — Rs. 600 — 40 - - 1,000 — 1,000 — 1,050 — 1,050 — 1,100 — 1, 100 

- 1, 150 . 
II . Administrative ( Selection ) Posts 

Superintending Engineers - Rs . 1,300 — 60 — 1,600 . 
Chief Engineer - (i) Rs . 2 ,000 — 125 _ - 2, 250 . 

( ii) Rs. 1,800 — 100 — 2 ,000 . 
3 . Provident Fund , Officers entering the Central Engineering Service , Class II, 
will be eligible to join the General Provident Fund and will be governed by the 
Rules regulating that Fund . 

[No. EWI- 15 (9 ) / 57 - II . ) 


2890 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA SO , 1879 [ PART II 


S . R . O . 4067. — The following rules for a competitive examination to be held 
by the Union Public Service Commission in July , 1958 for the purpose of Alling 
vacancies in the Central Electrical Engineering Service , Class I are published for 
general Information . 

RULES 
1. For the purpose of these Rules : 

( a ) " Government" means the Government of India . 
(b ) " The Commission " means the Union Public Service Commission . 
( c ) " The Service " means the Central Electrical Engineering Service , Class 

I particulars in respect of which are given in Appendix IV . 
2 . A competitive examination for admission to the Service shall be held in 
India at such times and places as may be prescribed in the Notice issued by the 
Commission , Every such notice will, when possible , announce the number of 
vacancies to be Alled on the result of the examination . 


3 . If the examination held under this part of these Rules is a combined 
examination for the purpose of making appointments to more than one Service or 
Department, the following provisions shall apply : 
(a ) Any person may apply to be admitted as a candidate for appointment 

in all or any of these Services or Departments for which he is 
eligible . If he wishes to compete for appointment in more than 
one Service or Department, he shall state in his application form 
which Services or Departments he wishes to compete for and the 
order of his preference for them , and in such case only one applica 
tion form will be necessary and one payment of the fees referred to 

In rule 14 ( and Appendix III) will be sufficient. 
( b ) Government shall assign successful candidates to each Service or 

Department on a consideration of all circumstances including any 

personal preference expressed by the candidate . 
4 . The maximum number of candidates to be admitted to any examination 
may at the discretion of the Commission , be limited to such number , not being 
less than 200, as the Commission may decide. If a limit is imposed , and the 
number of candidates exceeds that limit , the Commission shall select from the 
applicants those who shall be admitted to the examination , and in doing so 
shall have regard to the sultability of the applicants. 

5 . A candidate must apply to be admitted to the examination before guch date, 
in such manner , and in such form as the Commission may prescribe . 
8 . A candidate must be either 

( a ) a citizen of India , or 
( b ) a subject of Sikkim , or 
( c ) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan with the 

Intention of permanently settling in India , or 
( d ) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or former French possession in 

India . 
NOTE 1 , — The appointment of candidates in categories (c ) and (d ) above will 
be subject to the issue of certificates of eligibility in their favour by the Govern 
ment of India . The certificate of eligibility in respect of candidates belonging 
to category ( c ) will be valid only for a period of one year from the date of his 
appointment beyond which he would be retained in service only if he has become 
a citizen of India . Certificates of eligibility will not, however, be necessary in 
the case of candidates belonging to any one of the following categories : 
( 1 ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July , 

1948 , and have ordinarily been residing in India since then . 
( 2 ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th July 1948 , 

but before the 30th September 1948 and got themselves registered 

as citizens within the time allowed. 
( 3 ) Non - citizens who entered service under the Government of India 

before the commencement of the Constitution , viz ., 26th January , 
1950 and who have continued in such service since then , Any such 
person who re - entered or may re - enter such service with break after 
the 26th January , 1950, will, however, require cetifcate of eligibility 
in the usual way . 


Sec . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 8V , 1879 2801 


NOTE 2 . - A candidate in whose casc a certificate of eligibility is necessary 
may be admitted to the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being eventually işsued in his favour by 
Government . 

7 . ( a ) No male candidate who has more than one wife living shall be eligible 
for appointment to any of the Services appointments to which are made on the 
results of this competitive examination unless the Government of India after 
being satisfied that there are speclal grounds for doing so , exempt any male 
candidate from the operation of this rule. 

( b ) No female candidate who has, married a person having already a wife 
living shall be eligible for appointment to the service unless the Government of 
India after being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so , exempt 
any female candidate from the operation of this rule . 

8 . On the date prescribed by the Commission in their Notice of the examination 
işsued under Rule 2 , a candidate must have attained the age of 20 and must not 
have attained the age of 25 provided the upper age limit of 25 will be relax 
able upto 30 in the case of candidates who are permanently employed in the 
Central Public Works Department or who were continuously in temporary service 
under the Central Public Works Department for at least 3 years or who were 
within the above specified age limits on the date of their employment in the 
Central Public Works Department, such relaxation being limited to three exami 
nations only . 

Departmental candidates must obtain previous permission of the Head of the 
Department to appear for the examination , 
NOTE . — The upper age - limits prescribed above will be relaxable : - - 
( 1) Upto a maximum of five years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Caste or a Scheduled Tribe. 
( ii) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a bona fide displaced 

person from Pakistan or from the unllberated areas of Jammu and 

Kashmir . 
This concession will not, however , be admissible to a candidate who has 
already appeared at five previous examinations or in the case of those employed 
in the Central Public Works Department at eight previous examinations. 
( iii ) Upto a maximum of eight years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Castc or a Scheduled Tribe and is also a bona fide displaced person 

from Pakistan or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir . 
This concession will not, however , be admissible to a candidate who has already 
appeared at ten previous examinations or in the case of those employed in the 
Central Public Works Department at thirteen previous examinations. 
( iv ) Upto a maximum of three years it a candidate is a resident of the 

former French Settlements which have now become part of India and 

has been receiving his education through the medium of French . 
(v ) Upto a maximum of 4 years If a candidate belongs to the Andaman 

and Nicober Islands . 
SAVE AS PROVIDED ABOVE THE AGE LIMITS PRESCRIBED CAN IN NO 

CASE BE RELAXED 
9 . A candidate must gatisiy the Commission that his character is guch as to 
make him suitable for appointment to the Service / Department. 
10 . A candidate must have 
( a ) obtained a degree in Engineering from a university incorporated by 

an Act of the Central or of a State Legislature in India ; or 
(b ) passed Sections A and B of the Associate Membership Examination 

of the Institution of Engineers ( India ) or have any other educational 
qualifications excepting a B . E . degree ( Tele - communication ) award 
ed by Indian universities recognised by that institution as exempt 

ing from passing these sections; or 
( c) obtained an engineering degree of one of the universities mentioned 

in Appendix I under the conditions prescribed in that Appendix ; or 


2802 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 /AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 (PART II 


- 


( d ) passed the Honours Diploma examination in Civil, Mechanical or 

Electrical engineering of the Loughborough College, Leicestershire , 
provided the candidate has passed the common preliminary examl 

nation or has been exempted therefrom , 
NOTE 1. - In exceptional cases the Commission may treat a candidate , who has 
not any of the foregoing qualifications, as a qualified candidate provided that he 
has passed examinations conducted by other institutions, the standard of which , 
in the opinion of the Commission justifles his admission to the examination , 

NOTE II. - Candidates who have appeared at an examination the passing of 
which would render them eligible to appear at this examination , but have not 
been informed of the result , may apply for admission to the examination . Candi 
gates who intend to appear at such a qualifying examination may also apply , 
provided that the qualifying examination is completed before the commencement 
of this examination . Their applications will be accepted provisionally and they 
will be required to furnish proof of having passed the examination as soon as 
possible and in any case not later than two months after the commencement of 
this examination . 

11 . No candidate shall be admitted to the examination unless he holds a certi 
Acate of admission from the Commission . 

The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candl 
date for admission to the competitive cxamination shall be final. 

12 . A candidate found guilty of impersonation or of submitting febricated 
documents or documents which have been tampered with or of making state 
ments which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information or of using 
or attempting to use unfair means in the examination hall or otherwise resorting 
to any other irregular or improper means for obtaining admission to the examina 
tion will in addition to rendering himsell liable to a criminal prosecution be 
Gebarred either permanently or for a spcoffied periód 
( a ) by the Commission from admission to any examination or appearance 

at any interview held by the Commission for selection candidates, 

and 
(b ) by the Central Government from employment, under the Government. 
13. No recommendations except those required in the application form shall 
be taken into consideration . Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain 
support for his candidature by other means may disqualify him for admission . 

14 . Candidates must pay such cxamination fees as Government may prescribe 
( see Appendix III ) . No claim for a refund of any of these fees will ordinarily 
he entertained , nor can they be held in reserve for any other examination or 
selection , 

15 . Examination under these Rules shall be conducted by the Commission in 
the manner prescribed in Appendix II: 

18 . ( a ) After every examination , the Commission shall make a list of candi 
dates in order of their merit as disclosed by the faggregata marks Anally awarded 
to each candidate , and in that order, so many childates upto the number of 
vacancies announced under Rule 2 above , as are found by the Commission to be 
qualified by the examination , and are considero y byernment to be sultable 
la all other respects, shall be appointed 

(h ) Appointments to vacancies , . to be Allgd members of a particular com 
munity or communities shall be made by Government or the appointing authority 
as the case may be, in the order of merit of the candidates belonging to the parti 
tion and are in all respects suitable for employment in the service. 

( c ) Success in the examination confers no right to appointment, unless Govern 
ment are satisfied, after such enquiry as may be considered necessary that the 
cular community or communities, provided . they have qualified in the examina 
candidate is suitable in all respects for appoinment to the public Service . ? 

17. A candidate must be in good mental land boally health and free from 
Any physical detect likely to interfere with the efficient performance of the duties 
ot a member of the Service , and a candidato di found after examination by 

Medical Board not to satişfy these requirements wll not be appointed . Only 
those candidates who are likely to be considered . Thr appointment will be 
physically examined , 


Sec . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 21, 1957/ AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 2893 


In order to prevent disappointment candidates are advised to have themselves 
examined by a Government medical officer of the standing of a Civil Surgeon , 
before applying for admission to the examination Parliculars of the nature of 
the medical test to which candidates will be submitted before appointment and 
of the standards required can be had from the Commission . 


18 . ( a ) The selected candidates shall be appointed as Assistant Electrical 
Engineurs on probation for two years. Their pay shall commence from the date 
of appointment under these rules and their service for increments , leave and 
pension shall count from the same date . In the event of more than one candi 
date being appointed , their seniority inter se shall be determined according to 
their position in the competitive examination . 

( b ) On the completion of the period of probation , the Assistant Electrical 
Engineers shall, if considered alt for permanent appointment, be confirmed in their 
appointments. 

(c ) The Government may extend the period of two years specified in sub -rule 
( a ) above . 

( d ) It on the expiration of the period of probation referred to in sub - rule ( a ) 
above or of any extension thereof under sub - rule ( c ) above as the case may be , 
the Government are of opinion that an Assistant Electrical Engineer is not At 
for permanent employment, or if at any time during such period of probation 
or extension they are sutisfied that an Assistant Electrical Engineer will not be 
fit for permanent appointment on the expiration of such period or extension , 
they may discharge the Assistant Electrical Engineer or pass such order as they 
think fit , 

( e ) Il no action is taken by Government under sub - rule (b ) or ( c ) or ( d ) of 
this rule , the period after the prescribed perlod of probation shall be treated as 
an engagement from month to month terrninable on either side on the expira 
tion of onę calendar month s notice in writing . 

19 . Probationers will also be required to pass a test in Hindi before conar 
mation 


APPENDIX I 
List of University degrees which will be recognised for admission to the 

examination [ vide rule 10 ( c ) ] 
Aberdeen . - B . Sc. Engincering (Honours or Ordinary Degree) . 

Cambridge. — Ordinary degree B . A . in Engineering provided the graduate has 
passed in the principal subjects, Engineering I, Engineering II and Engineering 
III . 

Durham . - B .Sc. in Marine Engineering, 
Glasgow . - B .Sc, in Naval Architecture (Honours or Ordinary Degree). 

NOTE . — The above degrees will be accepted only if taken after three years 
study and the passing of the regular examinations in the several Universities . 
The conditions as to thrce years study will not, however , apply to Indians who .. 
having taken an Indian degree, which exempts them from part of the University 
course , shall have taken one of the above degrees in less than three years in 
accordance with the regulations of the University concerned . 


Marks 


APPENDIX II 
Standard and Syllabus of the examination ( vide Rule 15 ) 

Subject 
(a ) Compulsory: 

1. English (including Essay and Precis writing ) 
2 . General Knowledge 
3 . Mechanical Engincering 
4 . Electrical Engineering, 
5 . Applied Mechanics , ( including strength of matcrials and 

Theory of Structures ) 
6 . Personality Test 


100 
100 
200 
200 


200 


300 


2894 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1987 / AGKAHAYANA 80 , 1879 [PART II 


(b ) Optional. 

(Not more than two of the following subjects)-- - 
i. Physics (including Electricity and Magnetism ) 

100 
2 , Electrical Communication Engineering 

100 
3 , Prime Movers 

100 
4 . Applied Mathematics 

100 
5 . Hydraulics and Hydraulic Machines 

100 
NOTE 1. - 411 papers must be answered in English , 

NOTE 2 . - - Candidates must write the papers in their own hand , In no circumn 
stanice will they be allowed the help of an amanuensis ( scribe) to write down 
answers for them , 

2. The standard and syllabus of the examination will be such as the Commis 
sion shall prescribe, 

3. The Commission have discretion to fix qualifying marks in any or all the 
subjects at the examination . 

4 . The Commission will summon at their discretion only _ those candidates whom 
they consider suitable for interview for the Personality Test. 

5 . Special attention will be paid in the Personality Test to assessing the candi 
dates capacity for leadership , initiative and intellectual curiosity , tact and other 
social qualities, mental and physical, energy , powers of practical application and 
integrity of character. 

6 From the marks assigned to candidates in each subject such deduction will 
be made as the Commission may consider necessary in order to secure that no 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge . 

7. Deductions up to 5 per cent, of the maximum marks for the written subjects 
will be made for illegible handwriting . 

8 . Credit will be given for good English including orderly, effective and exact 
expression combined with due economy of words in all subjects of the examination 
and not only in subjects which are specially devoted to English . 


APPENDIX III 

Fees 

(See Rule 14 ) 
Candidates seeking admission to the examination must pay the following 
fees : - 

(a ) To the Commission : 
(1) Re. 1 when asking for application form and connected documents , 
This amount should be paid to the Commission by Money Order. Local 

candidates, however, may pay cash at the counter . The Commission 

will not accept payment made otherwise . 
( ii ) Rs. 81,50 (Rs. 19 .62 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled 

Castes and Scheduled Tribes ) with the completed application form . 
This amount should be paid by means of Treasury Receipt or CROSSED 

Indian Postal Orders payablo to Secretary , Union Public Service 
Commission . The Commission will not accept payment made other 

wise , 
( b ) To the Medical Board : 
Rs. 16 before examination by a Medical Board , if selected for appointment. 
This amount should be paid in cash to the Medical Board concerned at the 

time of the Medical examination . 
2 . Once an application has been considered by the Commission and the decision 
communicated to the candidate , no claim from the candidate for a refund of the 
fee paid by him to the Commission will ordinarily be entertained nor can this 
fee be held in reserve for any other examination or selection . If, however , a 
candidate is not admitted to the examination by the Commission , a refund of 
Rs. 75 (Rs, 18 . 75 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes ) will be made to him . 


2. Once ted to the fancommissioner 
examination the 


Sec . 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 /AGRAHAYANA 80 , 1879 2895 


3 . The Commission may at their discretion remit the prescribed fee where they 
are satisfied that the applicant is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan on 
from the unilherated areas of Jammu and Kashmir and is not in a position to pay 
the prescribed fee . The fee of Re. 1 however , must be paid even by a displaced 
person when asking the Commission for form and this amount will be refundable 
to him , if on receipt of his application his claim to be a displaced person is accept 
ed by the Commission and his fee is remitted . 


APPENDIX IV 
Brief particulars regarding the Central Electrical Engineering Service , Class I 

1. Persons recruited to the Service through competitive Examination shall be 
on probation for a period of at least two years and they will receive pay in the 
time scale of Rs. 350 - 350 — 380 - 380 — 30 - 590 - E . B . - 30 - 770 — 40 - - 850. On com 
pletion of the probationary period , if they have passed the prescribed depart 
mental examinations and are considered At for permanent appointment they will 
be confirmed as Assistant Electrical Engineers . 

2 . The Central Electrical Engineering Service Class I, comprises a number of 
superior posts as follows: 
I. Electrical Engineer - Rs. 600 — 40 – 1,000 — 1,000 — 1,050 — 1,050 - - 1, 100 - - 1, 100 

- 1 , 150 . 
II. Administrative ( Selection ) Posts 

Superintending Engineers - Rs. 1,300 — 60 — 1,600 . 
3. Provident Fund . - Officers entering the Central Electrical Engineering Service, 
Class I, will be eligible to join the General Provident fund and will be governed 
by the Rules regulating that Fund . 

[No. EWI- 15 (9 ) / 57- III.] 
S . R . O . 4058, - The following rules for a competitive examination to be held 
by the Union Public Service Commission in July 1958 for the purpose of Alling. 
vacancies in the Central Electrical Engineering Service, Class II are published for 
general information . 

RULES 
1. For the purpose of these Rules 

( a ) " Government” means the Government of India . 
(b ) " The Commission " means the Union Public Service Commission . 
( c ) " The Servicc " means the Central Electrical Engineering Service , Class 

II, particulars in respect of which are given in Appendix . IV . 
2 . A competitive examination for admission to the Service shall be held in 
India at such times and places as may be prescribed in the Notice issued by the 
Commission . Every such Notice will , when possible announce the number of 
vacancies to be filled on the result of the examination . 

3. If the examination held under this part of these Rules is a combined exami 
nation for the purpose of making appointments to more than one Service or 
Department, the following provisions shall apply : 
( a ) Any person may apply to be admitted as a candidate for appointment 

in all or any of these Services or Departments for which he is 
eligible . If he wishes to compete for appointment in more than one 
Service or Department, he shall state in his application form which 
Services or Departments he wishes to compete for and the order of 
his preference for them , and in such case only one application form 
will be necessary and on payment of the fees referred to in rule 

14 ( and Appendix III ) will be sufficient . 
(b ) Government shall assign successful candidates to each Service or 

Department on a consideration of all circumstances including any 

personal preference expressed by the candidate. 
4 . The maximum number of candidates to be admitted to any examination , 
may at the discretion of the Commission be limited to such number , not being 
less than 200 , as the Commission may decide . If a limit is imposed and the 
number of candidates exceeds that limit, the Commission shall select from the 
applicants those who shall be admitted to the examination , and in dcing so shal 
nave regard to the suitability of the applicants . 


2896 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 PART II 


5 . A candidate must apply to be admitted to the examination before such 
date , in such manner , and in such form as the Commission may prescribe , 
6 . A candidate must be either 

( a ) a citizen of India , or 
(b ) a subject of Sikkim , or 
( c ) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan with the 

intention of permanently settling in India , or 
(d ) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or former French possession in 

India 
NOTE 1. - The appointment of candidates in categories ( c ) and ( d ) above 
will be gubjoct to the issue of certificates of eligibility in their favour by the 
Government of India . The certificate of eligibility in respect of candidates 
belonging to category ( c ) will be valid only for a period of one year from the 
date of his appointment beyond which he would be retained in service only if 
he has become a citizen of India . Certificates of eligibility will not , however , 
be necessary in the case of candidates belonging to any one of the following 
categories: 
( 1 ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July 

1948 and have ordinarily been residing in India since then . 
( 2 ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th July 

1948, but before the 30th September 1948 and got themselves regis 

tered as citizens within the time allowed . 
( 3 ) Non -citizens who entered services under the Government of India 

before the commencement of the Constitution , viz . 26th January , 
1950 and who have continued in such service since then . Any 
such person who re - entered or may re - enter such service with 
break after the 26th January 1950 , will, however , require certificate 
of eligibility in the usual way . 


NOTE 2 . - A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary 
may be admitted to the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by 
Government. 

7 . ( a ) No male candidate who has more than one wife living shall be eligible 
for appointment to any of the Services appointments to which are made on the 
results of this competitive examination unless the Government of India after 
being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so , exeinpt any male 
candidate from the operation of this rule . 

( b ) No female candidate who has married a person having already a wife 
living shall be eligible for appointment to the service unless the Government of 
India after being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so , exempt 
any female candidate from the operation of this rule . 

8 . On the date prescribed by the Commission in their Notice of the examina 
tion issued under Rule 2 , a candidate must have attained the age of 20 and must 
not have attained the age of 25 provided that the upper age litnit of 25 will be 
relaxable upto 30 in the case of candidates who are permanently employed in the 
Central Public Works Department or who were continuously in temporary 
service under the Central Public Works Department for at least 3 years or who 
were within the above specified age limits on the date of their employment in 
the Central Public Works Department, such relaxation being limited to three 
examinations only . 

Departmental candidates must obtain previous permission of the Head of the 
Department to appear for the examination . 
NOTE . — The upper age- limits prescribed above will be relaxable : 
(i) Upto a maximum of five years If a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Caste or Scheduled Trlbe. 
( ii ) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a bona fide displaced 

person from Pakistan or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and 
Kashmir , 


$ EC. 8] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 /AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 2897 


This concession will not, however , be admissible to a candidate who has al 
ready appeared at five previous examinations or in the case of those employed in 
the Central Public Works Department at eight previous examinations. 
( iii ) Upto a maximum of eight years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Caste or a Scheduled Tribe and is also a bona fide displaced person 

from Pakistan or from the unllberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir . 
This concession will not, however , be admissible to a candidate who has already 
appeared at ten previous examinations or in the case of those employed in the 
Central Public Works Department at thirteen previous examinations. 
( lv ) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a resident of the 

foriner French Settlements which have now become part of India 

and has been recciving his education through the medium of French . 
(v ) Upto a maximum of 4 years if a candidate belongs to the Andaman 

and Nicobar Islands . 


SAVE AS PROVIDED ABOVE THE AGE LIMITS PRESCRIBED CAN IN NO 

CASE BE RELAXED 


9 . A candidate must satisfy the Commission that his character is such as to 
make him suitable for appointment to the Service / Department, 

10 . A candidate must have 
. (a ) obtained a degree in Engineering from a university incorporated by 

an Act of the Central or of a State Legislature in India ; or 
(b ) passed Sections A and B of the Associate Membership Examination of 

the Institution of Engineers ( India ) or have any other educational 
qualifications excepting a B . E . degree ( Tele - communication ) award 
ed by Indian Universities , recognised by that institution as exempt 

ing from passing these sections; or 
( c ) obtained an engineering degree of one of the universities mentioned 

in Appendix I under the conditions prescribed in that Appendix ; or 
( d ) passed the Honours Diploma examination in Civil, Mechanical or 

Electrical Engineering of the Loughborough College , Leicestershire , 
provided the candidate has passed the common preliminary 

examination or has becn exempted therefrom , 
NOTE I. — In exceptional cases the Commission may treat a candidate , who has 
not any of the foregoing qualifications , as a qualified randidate provided that he 
has passed examinations conducted by other institutions, the standard of which , 
in the opinion of the Commission justifies his admission to the examination . 

NOTE JI - Candidates who have appeared at an examination the passing of 
which would render them eligible to appear at this examination , but have not 
been informed of the result, may apply for admission to the examination . 
Candidates who intend to appear at such a qualifying examination may also 
apply , provided that the qualifying examination is completed before the com 
mencement of this examination . Their applications will be accepted provisionally 
and they will be required to furnish proof of having passed the examination 
as soon as possible and in any case not later than two months after the com 
mencement of this examination . 

11. No candidate shall be admitted to the examination unless he holds a certi 
ficate of admission from the Commission . 

The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candl 
date for admission to the competitive examination shall be final 

IZ ! A candidate found guilty of impersonation or of submitting fabricated 
documents or documents which have been tampered with or of making statements 
which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information or of using or 
attempting to use unfair means in the examination hall or otherwise resorting 
to any other irregular or improper means for obtaining admission to the exami 
nation , may, in addition to rendering himself ilable to a criminal prosecution be 
debarred either permanently or for a specified period 
( a ) by the Commission from admission to any examination or appearance 

at any interview held by the Commission for selection of candidates , 

and 
(b ) by the Central Government from employment under the Government. 


2898 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 [ PART II 


- . . 


. 


- - 


- 


- - 


13 , No recommendations except those required in the application form shall 
be taken into consideration . Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain 
support for his candidature by other means may disqualify him for admission . 

14 . Candidates must pay such examination fees as Government may prescribe 
( see Appendix III ) . No claim for a refund of any of these fees will ordinarily 
be entertained , nor can they be held in reserve for any other examination or 
selection , 


15 . Examination under these Rules shall be conducted by the Commission in 
the manner prescribed in Appendix II . 


16 . (a ) After every examination , the Commission shall make a list of candidates 
in order of their merit as disclosed by the aggregate marks finally awarded to 
each candidate , and in that oider , so many candidates upto the number of vacan 
cies announced under Rule 2 above , as are found by the Coinmission to be 
qualified by the examination , and are considered by Government to be suitable 
in all other respects , shall be appointed . 

( b ) Appointments to vacancies to be Alled by members of a particular com 
munity or communities shall be made by Government or the appointing authority 
as the case may be, in the order of merit of the candidates belonging to the 
particular community or communities , provided they have qualifled in the exami 
nation and are in all respects suitable for employment in the service. 

( c ) Success in the examination confers no right to appointment unless 
Government are satisfied , after such enquiry as may be considered necessary that 
the candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the public Service. 

17 . A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health and free from any 
physical defect likely to interfere with the efficient performance of the duties of 
a member of the Service , and a candidate who is found after examination by a 
Medical Board not to satisfy these requirements will not be appointed . Only 
those candidates who are likely to be considered for appointment will be physical 
ly examined . 

In order to prevent disappointment candidates are advised to have themselves 
examined by a Government medical officer of the standing of a Civil Surgeon , 
before applying for admission to the examination . Particulars of the nature of 
the medical test to which candidates will be submitted before appointment and 
of the standards required can be had from the Commission . 


18 . ( a ) The selected candidates shall be appointed as Assistant Electrical 
Engineers on probation for two years . Their pay shall commence from the date of 
appointment under these rules and their service for increments , leave and pen 
sion shall count from the same date . In the event of more than one candidate 
being appointed their seniority inter se shall be determined according to their 
position in the competitive examination . 

( b ) On the completion of the period of probation , the Assistant Electrical 
Engineers shall, if considered fit for permanent appointment, be confirmed in 
their appointments . 

(c ) The Government may extend the period of two years specified in sub -rule 
( a ) above. 

( d ) If on the expiration of the period of probation referred to in sub - rule ( a ) 
above or of any extension thereof under sub - rule ( c ) above as the case may be 
the Government are of opinion that an Assistant Electrical Engineer is not fit 
for permanent employment, or if at any time during such period of probation or 
extension they are satisfied that an Assistant Electrical Engineer will not be At 
for permanent appointment on the expiration of such period or extension , they 
may discharge the Assistant Electrical Enginer or pass such order as they think 
At. 

( e ) If no action is taken by Government under sub - rule (b ) OT ( c ) or ( d ) of 
this rule , the period after the prescribed period of probation shall be treated as 
an engagement from month to month terminable on either side on the expiration 
of one calendar month s notice in writing . 

19 . Probationers will also be required to pass a test in Hindi before confir 
mation . 


Sec . 8] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2899 


APPENDIX I 
List of University degrees which will be recognised for admission to the 

examination [ vide rule 10 ( c ) ] 
Aberdeen . - B .Sc ., Engineering (Honours or Ordinary Degree ). 

Cambridge. - - Ordinary degree B . A . in Engineering provided the graduate has 
passed in the principal subjects, Engineering 1, Engineering II and Engineering 
TII. 

Durham . - B . Sc., in Marine Engineering . 
Glasgow . - B .Sc., in Naval Architecture (Honours or Ordinary Degree). 

NOTE . — The above degrees will be accepted only if taken after three years 
study and the passing of the regular examinations in the several Universities . The 
conditions as to three years study will not, however , apply to Indians who, 
having taken an Indian degree , which exempts them from part of the University 
course , shall have taken one of the above degrees in less than three years in 
accordance with the regulations of the University concerned . 


200 


APPENDIX II 
Standard and Syllabus of the examination ( vide Rule 15) 
Subjects 

Marks 
( a ) Compulsory : 
1. English ( including Essay and Precis writing ) 

100 
2 . General Knowledge 

100 
3. Electrical Engineering 
4 . Mechanical Engineering 

200 
5 . Applied Mechanics ( including strength of materials and 
Theory of Structures) 

200 
6 . Personality Test 

300 
6b ) Optional : 

(Not more than two of the following subjects) 
1 . Physics ( including Electricity and Magnetism ) 

100 
2 . Electrical Communication Engineering 

100 
3 . Prime Movers 

100 
4 . Applied Mathematics 

100 
5. Hydraulics and Hydraulic Machines 

100 
NOTE 1. - All papers must be answered in English . 

NOTE 2 . — Candidates must write the papers in their own hand . In no 
circumstances will they be allowed the help of an amanuensis ( scribe ) to write 
down answers for them , 

2 . The standard and syllabus of the examination will be such as the Commis 
slon shall prescribe. 

3. The Commission have discretion to fix qualifying marks in any or all the 
subjects at the examination . 

4 . The Commission will summon at their discretion only those candidates whom 
they consider suitable for interview for the Personality Test , 

5 . Special attention will be paid in the Personality Test to assessing the candi 
dates capacity for leadership , initiative and intellectual curiosity , tact and other 
social qualities , mental and physical energy , powers of practical application and 
integrity of character . 

6 . From the marks assigned to candidates in each subject such deduction will 
be made as the Commission may consider necessary , in order to secure that no 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge. 

7 , Deductions up to 5 per cent of the maximum marks for the written subjects 
will be made for fllegible handwriting . 

8 . Credit will be given for good English including orderly , effective and exact 
expression combined with due economy of words in all subjects of the examina 
tion and not only in subjects which are specially devoted to English , 


2000 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1987 /AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 [PART II 


APPENDIX IU 

Fees 

( See Rule 14 ) 
Candidates seeking admission to the examination must pay the following 
fees : - - 
( a ) To the Commission : 

(i) Re. 1/ - when asking for application form and connected documents . 
This amount should be paid to the Commission by Money Order , Local 

candidates, however, may pay cash at the counter . The Commission 

will not accept payment made otherwise . 
(ii) Rs. 81. 50 (Rs. 1962 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled 

Castag and Scheduled Tribes) with the completed application form . 
This amount should be paid by means of Treasury Receipt or CROSSED 

Indian Postal Orders payable to Secretary, Union Public Service 
Commission . The Commission will not accept payment made other 

wise . 
(b ) To the Medical Board : 
Rs. 16 /- before examination by a Medical Board , if selected for appoint 

ment. 
This amount should be paid in cash to the Medical Board concerned at 

the time of the Medical examination , 
2 . Once an application has been considered by the Commission and the decision 
communicated to the candidate , no claim from the candidate for a refund of the 
fee paid by him to the Commission will ordinarily be entertained nor can this 
fee be held in reserye for any other examination or selection . If , however , a 
candidate is not admitted to the examination by the Commission , a refund of 
Rs. 75 / - ( Rs. 18 . 75 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes ) will be made to him , 

3 . The Commission may at their discretion remit the prescribed fee where 
they are satisfied that the applicant is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan 
or from the unliberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir and is not in a position 
to pay the prescribed fee . The fee of Re. 1 / - , however , must be paid even by 
a displaced person when asking the Commission for form and this amount will 
be refundable to him if on receipt of his application , his claim to be a displaced 
person is accepted by the Commission and his fee is remitted, 


APPENDIX IV 
Brief particulars regarding the Central Electrical Engineering Service , Class II 

1 . Persons recruited to the Service through Competitive Examinations shall 
bo on probation for a period of at least two years and they will receive pay in 
the time scale of Rs. 275 - 25 - 500 E . B . - 30 - 650 - E . B .- 30 800 . On completion 
of the probationary period , if they have passed the prescribed departmental, 
examinations and are considered fit for permanent appointment, they will be 
confirmed as Assistant Engineers . 

2 . The Central Electrical Engineering Service , Class II, consists of a number 
of posts of Assistant Engineers (Sub -Divisional Officers ) but persons recruited 
to the Service will be eligible for promotion to the Central Electrical Engineering 
Service , Class I, if they fulfl the conditions laid down in the recruitment rules 
for that service . The Central Electrical Engineering Service , Class I, comprises 
a number of superior posts as follows:-- - 

1, Electrical Engincers - Rs. 600 -- 40 – 1,000 — 1, 000 — 1,050 — 1 ,050 - 1, 100 

1, 100 — 1, 150. 
2. Administrative (Selection ) Posts — 

Superintending Engineers — Rs. 1,300 — 10 — 1,800 . 
3 . Provident Fund , Officers entering the Central Electrical Engineering 
Service , Class II , will be eligible to join the General Provident Fund and will 
be governed by the Rules regulating that Fund . 

[No. EWI- 15 (9 ) / 87 - IV . ) 
R . T . D . JOSEPH , Under Secy . 


Src , 8] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 2901 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 29th November 1957 
S . R . O . 4059. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 , 
( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints all the Revenue Assistants 
of the various districts of Punjab to be Settlement Officers in that State for the 
purpose of performing within their respective jurisdiction the functions assigned 
to a Settlement Officer , under section 9 of the said Act, in respect of compen 
sation payable in the form of agricultural lands in any rural area including 
houses , cattle sheds and vacant sites, if any , in any such area allotted along 
with any such lands . 

[No. 1 ( 7 ) ( 32 ) - S . III /57 - II.) 
H . S . NAIR , Under Secy . 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONAL AUTHORITY AND OOMPETENT 

AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the 21st November 1957 
S . R . O . 4060. Under Section 36 of the Slum Areas ( Improvement and Clear 
ance ) Act, 1956 , I, G . Mukharji, Competent Authority and Secretary , Delhi Deve 
lopment ( Provisional) Authority direct that any powers exercisable by me 
under this Act may also be exercised by Shri R . Bhardwaj, Additional Secretary , 
Delhi Development ( Provisional) Authority . 

[No. Sc.2 (3 ) /57. ] 

G . MUKHARJI, 
Competent Authority & Secretary , 
Delhi Development (Provisional) Authority . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4061. — The following draft of certain further amendments to the 
Minimum Wages ( Central ) Rules, 1950 , which the Central Government proposes 
to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) ( 1 ) of 
section 30 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( 11 of 1948 ) , is published as required 
by sub - section ( 1 ) of that section for the information of all persons Ukely to be 
affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken 
into consideration on or after the 15th January 1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
regard to the said draft before the date specified above will be considered by 
the Central Government. 

Draft Amendments 
In the said Rules 
I. in rule 22, for the word " extracts” , the word " abstracts" shall be substituted ; 
II. for rule 23 , the following rule shall be substituted, namely : 
“ 23. Weekly day of rest. - ( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of this rule , an 

employee in a scheduled employment in respect of which minimum 
rates of wages have been fixed under the Act, shall be allowed a 
day of rest every week (hereinafter referred to as the rest day ) 
which shall ordinarily be Sunday , but the employer may fix any 
other day of the week as the rest day for any employee or class of 

employees in a scheduled employment: 
Provided that the employee has been continuously employed in the 

scheduled employment for a period of not less than six days: 
Provided further that the employee shall be informed of the day fixed as 

rest day and of any subsequent change in the rest day by display of a 
notice to that effect in the place of employment, 


2002 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 Part 


( 2 ) Any such employee shall not be required or allowed to work in 

scheduled employment on the rest day unless 


8 


( a ) he has or will have a substituted rest day for a whole day on one 

of the flve days immediately before or after the rest day ; and 


( b ) prior intimation is given by the employer to the employee of his 

intention to require the employee to work on the rest day and also 
of the day which is to be substituted : 


Provided that no substitution shall be made which will result in the 

employee working for more than ten days consecutively without 
a rest day for a whole day. 


( 3 ) Where in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this rule , any 

employee works on a rest day and has been given a substituted rest 
day on any one of the five days before or after the rest day, the 
said rest day shall, for the purpose of calculating the weekly hours 
of work , be included in the week in which the substituted rest day 
occurs. 


( 4 ) An employee shall be granted for the rest day wages equal to the 

average daily wages during the preceding week ; and in case he 
works on the rest day and has been given a substituted rest day , 
the employee shall be paid , in addition to the wages payable for 
the rest day on which he has worked , wages for the substituted 
rest day , equal to the average daily wages during the preceding 
week : 


Provided that no such wages for the rest day or for the substituted rest 

day shall be payable where the minimum daily rate of wages of the 
employee as notified under the Act has been worked out by dividing 
the minimum monthly rate of wages by twenty - six and if any 
difficulty or doubt arises in this regard , the same shall be referred 
to the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) , New Delhi, for 
decision . 


Note : For the purposes of this sub -rule " average daily wages " shall not 

include overtime. 


( 5 ) The provisions of this rule shall apply to the employees in scheduled 

employments other than agricultural employment, 


( 6 ) The provisions of this rule shall not operate to the prejudice of, nor 

shall they apply in addition to , more favourable terms, if any , to 
which an employee may be entitled under any other law or under 
the terms of any award , agreement or contract of service . 


Explanation : -- The word " week " used in this rule will mean a period of 

seven days beginning at mid -night on Saturday night" ; 


NII, in Form IX - A , for the word " Extracts ” occurring in the heading, the word 
" abstracts " shall be substituted , and under the sub -heading " IV Hours of Work 
and Holidays" , for the paragraph 


" The employer shall allow a day of rest with pay in every period of seven 
days. Ordinarily Sunday the first day of the week shall be the holiday " , the 
following paragraph shall be substituted , namely : 


" The employer shall allow a day of rest with wages to the employees 

every week . Ordinarily Sunday will be the weekly day of rest, 
but any other day of the week may be Axed as such rest day . No 
employee shall be required to work on a day fixed as rest day, 
unless he is allowed a substituted rest day with wages . The employ 
er shall give prior intimation to the employee if he is required to 
work on the rest day (see rule 23 ) " . 

[NO, LWI- 1 - 3 ( 19 ) / 57 . ) , 
N . C . KUPPUSWAMI, Dy. Secy. 


L 


5 & c . ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 80 , 1879 2903 
GS 

New Delhi, the 12th December 1957 
S . R . O , 4062 . - Whereas immediately before the Employees Provident Funds 
Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), became applicable with effert from the 1st October, 1956 , 
to the establishment of M / S Ayurveda Rasashala , Poong Ltd . Karne Road , 
Poona -4 , there was in existence a provident fund common to the employees 
employed in the establishment of the said company to which the said Act applies 
and the employees in their establishments specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed : 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the 
Employees Provident Funds Act 1952 , ( 19 of 1952 ), the Central Government 
hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall apply to the said establish 
ments of the Company . 

SCHEDULE 
( 1) M / S A . R . P . Limited , City Library Road , Amraoti, 
( 2) M / S A , R . P . Limited , Brihan Maharashtra Bhuvan , Paharganj, New 

Delhi, 
( 3 ) M / S A . R . P . Limited , Mahadwar Road , Kolhapur, 
(4 ) M / S A . R . P . Limited , Mahal Road , Nagpur, 
(5 ) M / S A . R . P . Limited , Opposite Majestic Cinema, Girgaum , Bombay - 4 , 
( 6 ) M / S A . R . P . Limited , 405 / A , Narayan Ashram , Lalbaugh , Tram Terminus, 

Bombay , 
( 7 ) M / S A . R . P . Limited , Laxmi Road , Ganpati Chowk , Poona No. 2, 
( 8 ) M / S A . R . P . Limited , New Apollo Talkies, Opposite Tanga Stand , 

25 -Nagesh Peth , Poona - 2 , 
( 9 ) M / S A . R . P . Limited , Mahatma Gandhi Road , Sangli, 
( 10 ) M / S A . R . P . Limited , Maratha Galli, Hubli , 
( 11) M / S A . R . P . Limited , 1728 , Ramdeo Galli , Belgaum , 
( 12 ) M / S A , R . P . Limited , Jalori Gate, Jodhpur. 

[No. P . F . II 57 ( 28 ) 57. ) 
New Delhi, the 14th December 1957 
S . . . . 4063 , - / CDLB Am ( 7 ) /57. - In pursuance of clause 4 of the 
Calcutta Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment ) Scheme, 1956 , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri D . S . Bose , to be a member of the Calcutta 
Dock Labour Board wice Shri K . P , Gorsia and makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour S .R .O . No. 2316 dated the 8th October, 1956 , namely :-- 
In the said notification , under the heading “ Members representing the 

employers of dock workers and shipping companies " , for the entry 
" ( 1 ) Shri K . P . Gorsia ” , the entry " 11 ) Shri D . S . Bose " shall be 
gubstituted , 

[No. Tac. 175 ( 21) . ] 
R . C . SHARMA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 12th December 1957 
S .R .O . 4064 . — In pursuance of clause ( b ) of sub -rule (2 ) of Rule 72 of 
the Mines Rules , 1955 and in continuation of the notifications of the 
Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour No . S . R . O . 3170 dated the 
20th December 1956 and in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No . S . R . O . 
3500 dated the 20th October 1957 , published in the Gazette of India , Part II, 
Section 3 , dated the 29th December 1956 and 2nd November 1957, respectively , 
the Central Government hereby recognizes for the purposes of the said rule , the 
Institution mentioned in column I of the table below in respect of the degree and 
diploma in Social Science or Labour Welare mentioned in column II thereof 

TABLE 


Madras School of Social Work , Madras 


, Diploma in Social Serivce Administration . 


ONO, MIII -34 ( 11) 07. ) 


2004 THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 [ PAKT II 


S . R . O . 4065 . In pursuance of sub -section ( 4 ) of section 3 of the Mica Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1948 , ( 22 of 1946 ), the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following report of the activities financed from the Mica Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund for the year ending the 31st March 1957, together with 
an estimate of receipts and expenditure of the Fund and a statement of accounts 
for that year. 


PART I - ACTIVITIES IN AJMER 
1, The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee for Ajmer met 
once during the year 1956 -57. 


2 Tha Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee for the former 
State of Ajmer was constituted on the 21st April 1955. As a result of the enact 
ment of the States Re -organisation , Act 1956 , the State of Ajmer merged with 
that of Rajasthan with eilect from the 1st November 1956 . The Advisory Com 
mittee ceased to function from that date . The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund 
Advisory Committee for the new State of Rajasthan is being constituted . 

1. MEDICAL FACILITIES 


( a ) Mobile Medical Unit . — It catered to the medical needs of the miners and 
their dependents both as their homes and work places . It visited all the three 
mica mining areas of Ajmer State ; each area was visited on an average thrice 
in a month . During the year under review 12752 patients were treated as 
against 8 , 039 in 1956 - 56 . 


Besides the above, the Civil Assistant Surgeon of the Unit gave advice to the 
workers regarding prevention of diseases, improvement of sanitation and cleanli 
ness, 


(b ) Maternity & Child Welfare . — The Maternity Centres at Village Para and 
Sanod continued to provide medical and maternity facilities . Since the post of 
midwife at the Maternity Centre , Sanod , could not be Alled during the year , no 
work could be done. However , arrangements were made to provide at least medi 
cal aid at this Centre . 


The details of the work done at all the above centres are as follows: 


1955 - 56 


1956 - 57 


. 


. 


12 


1. No. of patients treated 
2 . No. of labour cases conducted . 
3. No. of pre -natal cases attended and cared 
4 . No. of post -natal cases attended and cared 
5 . No. of Infants attended and cared . 


24. 
47 


. 


. 
. 


1 , 2II 


714 


During the course of discharge of the above mentioned duties , the nurse - cum - dai 
also gave advice to the females regarding cleanliness , prevention of diseases , 
keeping of babies tidy and healthy , and as to how to become good mothers . 


II. WELFARE CENTRES 
The Welfare Centres at Para and Sanod continued to function with the fol 
lowing facilities : 


( 1 ) Educational facilities .- Training was imparted daily to the females of 

the miners in handicrafts such as sewing clothes by hand and on 

machine, knitting of woollen and cotton garments , embroidery etc . 
( 2) Recreational Facilities. - One radio , indoor games Uke carrom , Chopar, 

and musical Instruments wero provided for recreation , Outdoor 
games like tool-ball and volley ball were also provided . 


- 


- - - 


SEC. ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 21, 1957/AGRAHAYANA 80 , 1879 2905 
- - - 

Besides, two Hindi daily newspapers were also provided . The attendance at 
the Centres was as follows : 


Name of Centre 


Average attendance per day 


No . 


of female trainees to 
koitting and sew - 

ing classes 


of persons who 
visited Centre for 
recreation etc . 


1956 -57 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1 . Para 
2 . Sanod 


1955 - 56 

II 
II 


. 
. 


1956 - 57 

14 
53 


21 


1955 -56 

2 4 
36 


36 


The Children s Park at village Para was very popular among the children . 

The attendance of the listeners to the radio Centre at Village Jawaja was 
fairly good during the year. 

III. NEW SCHEMES 
It was decided to establish two more welfare centres at villages Sarana and 
Surajpur similar to one already established at village Para during the year 
under review . They will be established in the year 1957-58. 

PART II – ACTIVITIES IN ANDHRA 
The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee (Andhra ) Nellore , 
met six times during the year and the Finance Sub -Committee twice , 

I. MEDICAL FACILITIES 
(a ) Dispensaries, — The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund maintained 3 Static 
dispensarles . These are situated in the heart of the Andhra Mica Mining area 
at Kalichedu , Talupur and Sydapuram . All these dispensaries worked satisfacto 
rily and rendered medical aid to the mica mining labourers and their families. 
A staff nurse taken on deputation from the State Medical Department to work 
in Kalichedu hospital, joined in May 1957. A temporary in - patient ward of eight 
beds attached to the dispensary at Kalichedu served the patients very well. 

Statistics of the work done in the dispensaries in the year are given below : 


Total number 
of patients treated 


Dispensary 


Out 
patients 


In 
patients 


462 


Kalchedu . . 
Talupur , 
Syd apuram , 
Mobile dispensary . 


57233 
48755 
34242 
5998 


, 


. 


146228 1 


462 


Medicines worth Rs . 13,589- 4- 0 were supplied to the dispensaries during 1956 -57. 

A microscope was provided in the dispensary at Kalichędu and the following 
laboratory tests were conducted during the year under report : - 


1955 - 56 


1956 - 57 


. 


178 


178 


. 


86 


Blood tests . 
Sputum tests . 
Urine tests . 
Motion tests . 
ESR tests 
QSF tests . 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


650 


73 
- 99 
TI 


. 


. 


. 


34 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


il 


2006 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 [PART II 


The medical Oncers in addition to their dispensary work , trained workers 
in the Mica Mines in First Aid for being appointed as First Aid certificate 
holders as required by section 21 of the Indian Mines Act, 1952. In 1956 the 
Medical Officer , Kalichedu , trained 75 persons and the Medical Omcer Sydapuram 
30 persons. 

In addition to the three Ştatic dispensaries there is one Mobile dispensary , 
in - charge of a Medical Officer . The Medical Officer and the Compounder visited 
the mines and labour colonies situated beyond three miles from static dispensaries 
According to a presented programme and treated the patients at the places. Ac 
cording to the programme approved by the Advisory Committee, all such mines 
and colonies were covered once in a week . The statistics of work done by the 
mobile unit are furnished below . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


I . Number of days on tour . . . 
2 . Number of mines visited . . 
3 . Total number of new cases treated . . 
4 . Totalnumber of old cases treated . " 
5 . Surgical operations conducted . . 
6 . Medical examination of school children 


123 days 
187 
5623 
386 


19 


200 


For a major part of the year , the Medical Officer in - charge of Mobile dispengary 
was kept in charge of Static dispensaries as the posts of Medical Officer - in 
charge of those dispensaries were cayant, 

(b ) Maternity centres .-- Four maternity centres run by the Fund rendered 
useful service to women labourers and children in the mining area . Each mater 
nity centre was under the charge of a midwife and their work was supervised 
by the Lady Health Visitor . Besides supervising the work of the midwives , she 
Assisted the midwives in difficult labour cases. Three centres situated at the 
dispensaries got assistance from the Medical Officers in Umcult cases, the mid 
wives also distributed milk made of milk powder supplied by the Indian Red 
Cross Society to the under - nourished children daily at the centres . Jaggery was 
purchased by the Fund and mixed with the milk and then distributed so as to 
make it more palatable . 

The work done in these centres in the year by the Midwives and the Lady 
Health Visitor is detailed below : 


1955- 56 1956 - 57 


1085 
549 


1180 

522 
497 
446 

7 


509 
18 


925 


876 


1. Total number of antenatal cases treated . . . 
2 . Total number of Post -natal cases treated . . . . . . 
3 . Total number of antc -natal caseg treated under care . . 
4 . Tatal number of Labour cases conducted by midwives . 

5. Total number of Labour cases by Lady Health Visitor . . 
6 . Total number of Labour Forceps cases conducted . . 
7. Total number of Antenatal cases supervised by the Lady Health Vi 

sitor . . . . . . . . . . 
8 . Totalnumber of Post -natal cases supervised by the Lady Health Visi 

tor. , , . 
9 . Totalnumber of Infants treated and under care , . . . 
10 . Total number of House visit : by Midwives and Lady Health Visitor, 
II. Total number of children served with milk during the year , . . 
12 . Quantity ofmilk powder consumed . . . . . 
13. Quantity of Jaggery consumed . . . . . . . . 
14. Number of clinics conducted by Lady Health Visitor. . . . 
15. Number of pregnant women examined and given advice at clinics. . 
16 . Quantity of Butter oil distributed among families of labourers (supp 

lied by Indian Red Cross Society ) . , , 


549 

225 
11910 


444 
210 


7385 


185 


1557 
594 

78 
379 


145 
per day . 

1594 lbs . 
557 » 

941 
402 


2863 4576 lbs. 


Sec. 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 21 , 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 80, 1879 2907 


1955 -56 


1956 - 57 


4038 


5918 


79 


50 


4 


17. Total number of labour families served with butter oil, . . 
08. Number of babies present for the baby show . . . . . . 
19. Number of prize winners in the Baby show , . . 
20 . Quantity of Milk powder distributed to the creches in themining arca 
21. Number of abnormal cases conducted . . . . . . . 
- 22 . Number ofmultivitamin tablets distributed . . . . . 


292 

98 
2000 


140 lbs . 

86 
4900 


(c ) Reservation of beds in State Government Hospitals . -- Two beds in the 
Nellore District Headquarter s Hospital and one in the Gudur Government Hos 
pital were continued to be reserved for the exclusive use of mica mines labour 
patients at the cost of the Fund . Rs. 1000 was paid for the purpose to the State 
Government. The cases that required special and extraordinary treatments were 
transferred by the Medical Hospital, Nellore which has better facilities and special 
equipment for special treatment. The number of patients treated against these 
reserved beds during 1956 - 57 are given below : - - 


1955 - 56 


1956 - 57 


- 


District Head - quarters 

Hospital, Nellore 
Government Hospital, Gudur . 


nil 


( d ) Combating Tuberculosis among Mica Mine Labourers. - Tuberculosis and 
Silicosis are the worst diseases to which mica mines labourers are subjected . 
Steps were taken to combat these diseases at the cost of the Fund . The Fund 
contributed Rs. 15000 for reservations of 8 beds for the exclusive use of mica 
mine labourers and their families in the State Government T . B . Hospital at 
Nellore. It was subsequently decided that the amount of Rs. 15 , 000 already 
contributed might be treated as having been given for the construction of a 
T . B . Ward of 3 beds and that Rs. 100 must be paid per bed per month for the 
patients recommended by the Fund authorities and admitted in the Tuberculosis 
Hospital, Nellore. The concurrence of the State Government in this was awaited . 

In addition , proposals for the construction of a Tuberculosis ward at Kalichedu 
were under consideration . 

( e ) Anti-Malaria Operations. The Anti-malarla Unit working under the 
supervision of the Senior Entomologist , Nellore, continued to work in the mining 
area during the year . The operations were very successful and , as a result, there 
was fall in the incidence of malaria . 

The details of anti-malaria operations conducted during the year are given 
below : 


Q . Sulphate tablets. 


( I) Total number of quinine tablets distributed in 

4866 
the year in the mining area . 
( 2) Total number of Sq. feet over which D . D . T . Ist round : 
was sprayed 

2nd round : 
(3 ) Total number of structures sprayed . . . Ist round : 

2nd round : 
(4 ) Number of villages and mines in which D . D . T . Ist round : 
was sprayed 

2nd round : 


6449367 Sq, ft, 
6275812 Sq. ft . 

8451 
8246 

38 villages 
96 mines 
38 villages 
93 mines 


X 


2908 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 [PART II 


(5 ) Number of Laboratory tests conducted , 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - - - - - 
Positive 


No. of smears examined 


Parasite rate 


- 


- - - 


LEE 


582 


nil 


nil 


. 


2753 


(6 ) Number of spleen tests conducted . 

(a ) Number of children examined . . 
(6) Positive . . . . . 
(c) Spllenrate . . . . 


. 


, 


0 . 0004 


71 


Proposals for further continuance of the scheme for 1957 - 58 partly at the cost 
of the Fund and partly at the cost of the State Government were under consi 
deration , 

II. EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES 
(a ) Schools. There are six elementary schools working in the mining area 
under the Fund . In addition , one Middle school is also run by the Fund at 
Kalichedu , A Senior Deputy Inspector of schools of the State Government has 
been deputed to work as Head Master of the school. He joined in January 1957. 
Number of students who attended the schools is as follows : 
( 1) Number of children in all the six elementary schools were. 

SIS 
(2 ) Number of students in the middle school were. . . . . . 
Free supply of books and slates etc was made to the children of mica mine 
labourers studying in these schools at a cost of Rs. 744- 15 - 6 during the year, 
Midday meals were also served to the children studying in these schools and 
this proved very successful as it induced almost all children of mica mine 
labourers in the mining area to enter the schools . In the year 1956 -57 a sum 
of Rs. 8816 - 4 -5 was spent towards for the supply of midday meals . 63206 meals 
were served during 1956 - 57 . 

The State Government granted financial aid to the schools run by the organi 
sation . The total amount of State Ald recelved during 1956 -57 was Rs. 7493 - 4 - 0 . 
During the year , play -ground apparatus viz ., ono slide , one set of see -saw , and 
one set of swing were supplied to each of the two schools at Kalichedu and 
Talupur at a total cost of Rs. 912 - 8 -0 . 

(b ) Other Educational Facilities. Every year scholarships are granted to the 
children of mica mine labourers studying in Higher Elementary Schools , Secon 
dary Schools and Colleges, for the prosecution of their studies. During the year 
1956 - 57 a sum of Rs. 1737 - 7 - 0 was granted to 65 eligible candidates at the rates 
granted by the Stato Government in Harijan Welfare Department. 

( c ) Boarding Home. - A sum of Rs. 4000 was sanctioned for one year to run 
a Boarding Home at Sydapuram for giving boarding and lodging facilities to the 
children of mica mine labourers studying in the District Board High School, 
Sydapuram . During 1956 -57 a sum of Rs, 1320 - 3 - 9 was spent under the scheme, 
11 students took advantage of the scheme. 

Sanction was also accorded to an expenditure of Rs. 2 ,500 for free supply of 
one set of dress to each of the children of mica mine labourers studying in the 
Elementary Schools . 328 boys and 92 girls were benefited by this, 


III. HANDICRAFTS 
( a ) Schools . In the two big schools at Kalichedu and Talupur, the children 
were taught handicrafts like tape -weaving , stitching knitting and embroidery 
etc . works. Tape -weaving was taught to children in all other schools also . Neces 
sary implements were supplied to them during the year 1955- 56 .. 

(b ) Community , Centre . There is one community centre run by the Fund in 
the mining area for the benefit of mica mine labourers and their families . The 


SEC . 8T THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957/ AĢRAHAYANA 80, 1879 2909 


Junior Assistant Welfare Inspector, Kalichedu , supervised the work in the men s 
section and the Assistant Welfare Inspector (Lady) supervised the work in the 
women s section . 

Men s Section . - Men labourers learned carpentry in their leisure hours . A 
qualified tutor in carpentry taught carpentry both to the school children in the 
Higher Elementary School, Kalichedu and mer labourers. Raw material such as 
wood nails, joints etc. worth of Rs. 225 - 15 - 8 were supplied to the centre for the 
use of the trainees . They made articles such as tables , chairs , easy chairs , 
children carts, wall stands, almirahs, time plece stands etc . Some of them were 
sold in public auction and some were supplied to dispensaries and schools. An 
amount of Rs. 30 - 11 - 0 was realised by the sale of the articles manufactured in 
the carpentry section . The number of persons trained in the carpentry centre 
during the year is given below : 
Men labourers . . . . . . . . . . . 

20 
School boys . . . . . . . . . . . . 

60 


Women s Section . - A qualified Lady Tutor is incharge of this Section . Women 
labourers and school girls were taught tailoring, knitting and embroidery in the 
Section . Needles , cloth . wool, etc . worth Rs. 42 - 11 - 0 was supplied to the centre . 
Finished goods worth Rs. 43- 8 -0 were sold to labourers during the year . A sew 
ing machine worth Rs. 264 - 1 - 0 was supplied to the centre during the year . 18 
women and 20 school girls were given training during the period under report. 

( c ) Co -operative Societies, — No Co - operative society could be formed among 
the labourers by the Co -operative Department, as there was no response from 
the labourers. The Deputy Registrar of Co - operative Societies sent the Mobile 
Handloom cloth stores to the mining area once during the year and the labourers 
had the benefit of purchasing handloom cloth and got advantage of the rebate 
scheme. 

IV , RECREATIONAL FACILITIES 
( a ) There are six Radio centres in the mining area and they worked satis 
factorily . It was decided to install a Radio set in Shah Mine Labour Colony at 
a cost of Rs. 1000 . The State Government Broadcasting Department were re 
quested to supply the Radio . A new Radio in place of the old one was sanctioned 
at a cost of Rs. 850 for Palamanai Mine Labour Colony . The State Broadcasting 
Department were requested to supply the Radio , The Radio centres in the 
Kalichedu and Utukur mining areas were electrified by the generous assistance 
of the public of these places and the gets were converted into main sets . There 
are five Recreational Clubs in the mining areas, About 100 labourers used to 
take part in games of foot -ball, volley ball , kabadi, badminton , etc . daily . The 
ti Bhajana parties were not functioning actively , 

( b ) Sports . - - The annual sports for the mica mining labourers and their 
Children were conducted on a zonal basis from 7th February 1957 to 24th March 
1957 and prizes were distributed by the Chairman on 24th March 1957 . About 
1000 labourers and their children took part in the sports. A drama LAVA -KUSA 
in Telugu was also enacted by the dramatic troupe of mica mine labourers , 
Kelichedu , on that day . The detalls of amounts spent are given below : 

RI A . Ps . 

864 4 3 
Sweet sto children . 

52 II 0 
Incidental expenses . 

150 4 0 
Drama . . . . . . . . . . . . 

2000 
I 17 3 3 


· 


. 


. 


. 


During the year the proprietors of Seetharamanjaneya Mica Mine, Kalichedu 
donated a ever rolling silver shield for the winners in waste mica scissor cutting . 
About 500 men , 150 women , 250 boys and 100 girls took part in the sports, 

V . HOUSING SCHEME 
The Subsidised Housing Scheme could not be implemented due to the reluct 
ance of the mine owners. 


2010 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 


Part II 


VI, DRINKING WATER FACILITIES 
It was agreed to construct a well at Shantinagar from the Fund s resources. 
One mine owner was permitted to sink a well under the subsidised well s scheme 
and the application of the another mine owner was under consideration , 


VII , BUILDINGS 


The following building works were sanctioned during the year: 


Rs, 


4420 


(1 ) Re-roofing of in -attached to the dispensary, patient ward , Kalichedu . 
( 2 ) Provision of Iron grills and shutters to the doors and windows of Isolation werd and 

other repairy, Kalichedu . 


1430 


1000 


A number of the works have almost been completed . The remaining are 
cecelving attention of the Central Public Works Department at different stages. 
(3 ) Re- roofing of old dispensary building, Kalichedu . 
. . . . . 3000 
( 4 ) Provision of collapsible gates for the dispensary building , Sydapuram . . 3920 

) Provision of Iron grills to the windows of school building , Talupur. 
( 6 ) Provision of Iron grills to the school building , Kallchedu . . 

1000 
( 7 ) Provision of collapsible gates to the dispensary , Talupur, . . . . 3920 
(8 ) Temporary kitchen shed for inpatient ward at Kalichedu . . 

1500 
( 9) Maternity centre , Utukur. . . . . . . . . . 15000 

The following works were sanctioned in previous years. 
( 1) Base Hospital, Kalichedu.. . . . . . . . . . 2,01,700 
(2) Maternity centre, Sydapuram . . . . . . . . . 13 ,600 

During the year, school Buildings at Kalichedu were opened by the Chairman , 
These two buildings were donated one by M / s . Kalyanarama Mica Co ., Kallchedu 
and the other by Shri Seetharam Mica Co., Kalichedu for the purpose of accom 
modating classes of Elementary School, Kallchedu , as a portion of the building 
constructed by the Fund had been occupied by the Middle School newly opened , 
The dispensary building at Talupur and Sydapuram were electrifed during the 
year . During the year, Shri Sidda Rueddy Venkata Suba Reddi donated an extent 
of Ac. 1 . 04 in S . No. 292 - B . 2 of Turimerla for purposes of the Organisation and 
the gift deed was registered on 27th October 1956 . The proprietors of Shri Krishna 
Mining Co ., Goginenipuram donated an extent of Ac. 2 - 73 covered by S . No . 
292 / B1 of Turimerla for purposes of playground for Middle school, Kalichedu . 
They also executed the gift deed . 


VIII , ENFORCEMENT OF WELFARE MEASURES ON THE SURFACE OF MINES 
The two Welfare Inspectors and the Secretary of the Fund were appointed 
as Ex - Officio Inspectors of Mines under the Mines Act , 1952 to enforce sections 
19 , 20 , 21, 44 and 45 of the Act on the surface. The Welfare Inspectors also 
worked as Liaison Officers between the managements of mines and labourers and 
tried to settle the complaints of labourers amicably by approaching the managers 
and proprietors of mines. The details of work turned out by them in the above 
direction under the supervision of the Secretary during the year are given below : 
( 1) 7 disputes of non -payment of wages involving 131 labourers amounting 

to Rs. 4375 - 1 - 3 were got settled , 
( 2 ) 3 disputes involving 3 labourers amounting to Rs. 1332-11-6 were re 

ferred to the Regional Labour Commissioner, Madras as they could 

not be settled amicably . 
( 3 ) The wages of 80 labourers were got raised to the level of minimum 

wages fixed by Government. 
( 4 ) Bonus was got paid to one labourer, The amount was Rs. 13 -8 -0 . 
(5 ) Two more disputes relating to non -payment of bonus were detected 

and referred to the Begional Labour Commissioner , Mudras. 


Sec . 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 /AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 2911 


( 6 ) Thrce Labourers thrown out of employment were got re -installed . 
( 7) Latrines were got constructed in four mines. 
(8 ) Fresh water arrangements were got made in one mine . 
(9 ) Six cases of non -payment of compensation under the Workmen s Com 

pensation Act were reported to the Commissioner of Labour - Andhra . 
( 10 ) Grain allowance was got paid to forty labourers. 
( 11) Compensation for retrenchment was got paid to one labourer . 
412 ) 0855 houses of labourers were visited and 15975 labourers were con 

tacted by the Welfare Inspectors and the labourers were advised 
on cleanliness , sanitation , sending children to schools , house economy 

etc . etc . 
( 13) Vegetable seeds were distributed among 71 labour familles, 

PART III - ACTIVITIES IN BIHAR 

1. THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE AND THE SUB -COMMITTEES 
During the year under review , the Advisory Committee for Bihar met 4 times 
when it discussed various important matters connected with the administration 
of the Fund and reached unanimous conclusions. The Advisory Committee was 
Assisted by the Finance Sub - Committee which held three meetings during the 
year . 


II . MEDICAL FACILITIES 
( a ) Central Hospital, Karma. The Central Hospital at Karma continued 
working in full swing during the period under report. The sanctioned bed 
strength of this Hospital was raised from 30 to 50 . This is one of the best 
equipped Hospitals in the State of Bihar and the question of raising it to 100 
bedded hospital is under consideration , 


The number of patients treated in the outdoor and indoor sections were as 
follows : 


Section 


Nurnber treated 


1955 - 56 


1956 -57 


. 
. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1. O . P . D , 
2 . I . P . C . 
3 . X - Ray 
4 . T . B . . 


30 , 545 
22,091 

122 

18 . 31 
average 
per day . 


10 ,651 
22,773 

250 

4 , 006 
II average 
per day , 


. 


. 


715 


858 


5 . Pathology 

(a) Blood . 
(6) Stool . 
( ) Urinc . 
(d) Sputum . 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


715 
321 
237 
274 


398 
434 
437 


(b ) Ambulance . -- The Ambulance Van continued functioning for shifting 
serious cases from different mines and static dispensaries to the Central Hospital, 
Karma 

Sanction was accorded to the construction of one Regional Hospital at Tisri 
tor the benefit of the mica labourers . 


2017 


THE GAZFT SE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 [Part II 


(c ) Static Dispensaries. The Fund continued to maintain the Ave static dis 
pensaries of its own at Debour, Dhorakola , Dhab , Bendro and Charkapathal. The 
number of cases treated at these dispensaries during the period under report are 
shown below : 


Name of Dispensary 


No. of cases treated 


1, Debour Dispensary 
2 . Dhorakola Dispensary 
3 . Dhab Dispensary . 
4 . Bendro Dispensary . 
5 . Charkapathal Dispensary 


1955 -56 

2 , 172 
20 , 585 
10 , 260 
13 ,795 

701 


1956 - 57 
12 ,572 
15 , 494 
13 , 177 
12 , 089 
11 ,238 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


One more static dispensary is being established at Parsabad , 

( d ) Mobile Medical Unit . — The Mobile Medical Unit No . 1 stationed at Karma 
continued to provide medical relief to those Mica Mines and their families who 
were unable to take advantage of the static dispensaries owing to distance and 
lack of proper communication , The number of patients treated by the unit during 
the period under report was 22 , 912 as against 16 ,356 during the year 1958 -56. 

The activities of the Mobile Medical Unit at Dhorakola remained suspended 
as the Medical Van at Dhorakola could not be repaired during the period under 
report. It is being replaced by a Station Wagon type Van . 

One additional Mobile Medical Unit for Ganwan Zone was expected to start 
its operation very soon . The Mobile Medical Van was received through the 
Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals , Selection of staf personnel has 
been completed , 

( e ) Maternity and Child Welfare Centre . — The Maternity and Child Welfare 
Centre at Dhab continued functioning for the benefits of the mica workers at 
Dhab area , Prenatal, natal and post -natal care to the workers wives and their 
temale dependants was given by the Centre - in - charge . 

One more additional Maternity and Child Welfare Centre at Dhorakola was 
started during the period under report . 

The details of work done at these centres during the period under report are 
as follows : - - 


Dhab 
- - - 


Dhorakola 
- - - - - 


- 


- 


. 


. 


. 


74 


188 
152 


So 


50 


232 


( 1) Total Nos , of Ante - natal cases treated , . . 
(2) Total Nos. of Pust-natal cases treated . 
(3 ) Total Nos . of Children treated . . 
(4 ) Total Nos. of Miners Houses visited . . 
(5 ) Total Nos, of Labour cases conducted in their home 
(6 ) Total No. of Dai training classes held . . 
( 7 ) Total No. ofMother Crafts classes , held 

s classes , held . . 
(8 ) Total No. of Children to whom milk was distributed 


865 
199 


105 


1 


. 
. 

. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 

. 
. 


Nil 
337 


120 
397 


III. ANTI-MALARIA OPERATIONS 
The scheme of insecticidal spraying in the mica field of Bihar continued 
functioning. Two rounds of spraying in the mica fields including the neighbour 
ing villages from where the labour came were completed during the period under 
report . The spraying proved very effective, The details of work done by the 
Anti-malaria team were as follows : 
( 1 ) Villages visited 

98 
( 2 ) Mines visited 

337 
( 3 ) Number of rooms sprayed 

28 ,729 
( 4 ) Quantity of Gamaxine powder used 

14 , 330 lbs. 
(5 ) Paludrine tablets distributed 

70 ,529 Nos . 


Sec . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 


2912 


IV . EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL FACILITIES 


and Debour,cational en centr 


( a ) Multi-purpose Centre . - - 4 Multi-purpose Institutes comprising each of ( a ) 
Adult Educational Centre and ( b ) a Women Welfare Centre continued functioning 
at Debour , Dhab , Kodarma and Saphi for the benefit of the mica mines workers 
and their families . 

( b ) Adult Education Centre . The Adult Education Centres continued to offer 
educational and recreational facilities to the mica workers . The Adult workers 
participated in outdoor and indoor games etc . Radio sets with loudspeaker pro 
vided at each centre proved to be things of great utility and attraction . These 
centres mostly catered to the needs of the Adult workers who wanted to read 
and write. Literacy classes were held every day during evening and morning 
hours according to the convenience of the mica workers . 


Activities of Adult Education centres 


Name of centre 


No, of 
mines ) 
basties 
visited 


Average 
Nos. of 
houşcs 
visited 


Average 
No , of 
persons 
contacted 


12 


. 


. 


. 


I, Dhab 
2 . Debour . 
3 . Kodarma . 
4 . Saphi 


. 


. 


. 


. 


I6 


Attendance of Adults 


Name of Centre 


Average 
Nos . of 
Adults on 

Roll 


Daily 
average 
Nos . of 

Adult 
attendance 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. 


I , Dhab 
2 . Debour 
3 . Kodarma 
4 . Saphi 


Recreational Activities 


Games activities 


Name of Centre 


Radio Reading 
Programmc room 


Outdoor Indoor dally Daily 

dally daily average average 
attendance attendance attendance attendance 
average average 


IS 


II 


I. Dhab 
2 , Debour 
3 . Kodarma . 
4 . Saphi . 


21 
19 


33 
1 5 


70 
Ni 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


10 


2014 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 21, 1957 /AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 [ PART II 


( c ) Women Welfare Centre. The Women Welfare Centres have continued to 
afford educational and recreational facilities to the mines children and women 
continued to get training in handicrafts like sewing, knitting, etc . 

ACTIVITIES OF THE WOMEN WELFARE CENTRE 

( 1) Outdoor works 


AVERAGE No . of Dally average 
mines or Basties No. of houses 
visited by the 

visited 
Field Workers 
during a month 


Daily average 
No. of persons 

contacted 


Name of centre 


18 


22 


- 1 . Dhab . 
2 . Debour : 
3 . Kodarma . 
4 . Saphi 


. 


. 


18 


14 


(2 ) Attendance of Children 


Nos , of 
children 
on roll . 


Name of centre 


Daily 
average 
Nos of 
children 
attended . 


I. Dhab 
. 2 . Debour 
3 . Kodarma , 
4 . Saphi 


116 


78 


( 3 ) Baths given to the children and cloths washed 


Daily 
average 
Nos . of 
clothes 
washed 


Daily 
Nos . of 
children 
given 
bath 


Nameof centre 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


I, Dhab . 
2 . Debour 
3 . Kodarma . 
4 . Saphi . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


( 4 ) Children s Park 


Name of centre 


Daily average No, 
of children attending 
the Children s Park 


1. Dhab 
2 . Dcbour 
3 , Kodarma . 
4 . Saphi 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 
, 


. 
, 


. 
, 


SEC. 81 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1987 /AGRAHAYANA 80 , 1879 2016 


( 5 ) Attendance of Kamins 


Nos , of 
Kaming 
on roll 


Name of the centre 


Daily 
average 
Nos . of 
Kamins 
& endance 


- - - - 


100 


I . Dhab 
2 . Debour 
3 . Koderma . 
4 . Saphi 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


(6 ) Other activities 


Name of the centre 


Daily average Nos . of attendance 
Literacy Reading Recrca 
class 

tion 


1 


I . Dhab 
2 . Debour 
3 . Kodarma 
4 . Saphi 


In 


. 


Tho Children s Parks attached to all centres were equipped with ( a ) Junior 
Combination set (b ) a Giant stride , ( c ) an Ocean Wave ( d ) Slide and ( e ) Sea 
Saw each , Besides these , a Magic lantern was also provided at all Centres for 
the education of mica miners and children . A magic show was performed by a 
magician in each centre except Saphi during the period under report. On the 
Independence Day , the Fiepublic Day, the Mahatma Gandhi Jayanti and other 
important festivals , special functions were arranged at every centre and sweet 
meats were distributed amongst children , Dialogue and action songs were given 
by children attending the Institutes . Some members of the Adult Education 
classes gavo fine pieces of performance of Folk Dance and Kirtan on these occa 
sions. A dramatic performance was also held at Saphi on the eve of the Saras 
wati Pooja. The adults and children were taking keen interest in the drama 
which was a great success . 

( c ) Primary Schools . — 6 Primary schools continued to glve primary education . 
to the children of the mica mines workers at ( 1) Khijuri ( 2 ) Sankh ( 3 ) Khorkotta 
(4 ) Charkı (5 ) Gajandi and (6 ) Bhandari. 


V . RECREATIONAL FACILITIES 
(a ) Mobile Cinema Van . — The Cinema Van continued to entertain the mica 
mines workers through the display of educative and entertaining Alms, 152 
Cinema shows were given by the Cinema Van at the mines during the period 
under report . 

The Cinema shows were suspended for about 4 months duo to breakdown 
of the Mobile Cinema Van , Against the indent of the 2nd Cinema Unit ( 18 M . M .) 
placed with the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals , supplies of the 
cinema projector and accessories were received and the van was awalted . It 
was expected to put the van in operation from the next Anancial year . 

(b ) Radio Sets . - The 16 Radio sets purchased and supplied to the mines for 
the recreation of miners were very useful. The Advisory Committee sanctioned 
purchase of 3 more Radio sets out of which one was purchased and supplied to : 
a mine. Steps were in progress for the supply of the other two sets . 

( c ) Competitive Sports . The competitive sports organised during the last 
year created great enthusiasm amongst the workers and they were all eagerly 


2016 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957/ AGRAHAYANA 80 , 1879 [ PART II 


awaiting the sports for the year under report. As soon as expenditure sanction 
for Rs. 8 , 000 for organising competitive sports in the mica flelds of Bihar was 
recelved, local sports committees were formed at ten important centres and 
vigorous propaganda was carried out in order to enable larger number of persons 
to participate in the sports . The sports were conducted at the following centres 
and the number of competitors participated in the sports is given against the 
cespective centres : - 


Name of centre 


No. of participants 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


1. Koderma . 
2 . Dhorakola 
3 . Dhab . 
4 . Debour , 
5 . Pessam . 
6 . Bendi 
7 . Charkapathal 
8 . Bendro , 
9. Karma . 
10 . Parsabad , 


. 
. 


375 
538 
531 
279 

80 
325 
237 
386 
344 


. 
. 
. 


520 


( a ) Central Sports - Central Sports in which the first in the second successful 
competitors in the ten different zones participated , were held at Karma, with 
success . The total participants in these sports were 131 and in addition to these . 
each Zone sent a Tug of War team consisting of 9 players . A shield was awarded 
at this occasion to the Zonal Sports Committee , Kodarma for the best Zonal 
Organisation of sports . The Central sports were witnessed by a large gathering 
including the Welfare Commissioner, Dhanbad , who presided over the occasion . 
Useful and attractive prizes were given away to the winners , 

VI. PROVISION FOR DRINKING WATER 
Three Departmental wells constructed earlier were in use and were very use 
" ful during summer when water was supplied to the miners by a large number 
of carts from the above wells . 

One more well was constructed under the subsidy scheme by Messrs Indian 
Mica Supply Co. Ltd . and this brings the total number of subsidised wells to 
three in the area . 

VII . HOUSING SCHEMES 
The Subsidy -Cum -Loan Scheme for the construction of miner s houses, which 
-was sanctioned in 1955 on the lines of the Industrial Housing Scheme of the 
Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply did not find favour with the mica mine 
owners. The Mica Mines LabourWelfare Fund Advisory Committee at its 
meeting suggested that subsidy under the scheme might be raised to 50 per cent, 
Where the mine owners were not willing to construct miner s houses under the 
subsidy scheme, the Fund might undertake to construct houses from the resources 
of the Fund . This question was under consideration . 

VIII , SCHEMES TO BE IMPLEMENTED 
10 small community centres were sanctioned . They would be started in the 
next financial year. Each community will provide dispensary , maternity , edu 
cational and recreational and drinking water facilities . 

IX . BUILDING PROGRAMME 
( a ) The Fund completed the construction of the following buildings during 
the year 1956 - 57: 

( 1) Construction o : buildings of the Multipurpose Institute at Saphi. 
(2) Construction of 4 primary schools at Gajandih Sankh , Khljurt and 

Chark . 


Sec . 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1987/ AGRAHAYANA $0 , 1879 2917 

= = 
( 3 ) Construction of Morgue for the Central Hospital, Karma. 
( 4 ) Construction of a small stone masonry dam at Phutlaiya in connection 

with drinking water supply scheme. 
( 5 ) Construction of garage for Ambulance Van with a store room at Karma. 

( 6 ) Construction of garage for Anti-malaria truck at Karma. 
(b ) The following works were under construction and the progress thereon 
upto the 31st March , 1957 is shown against each . 
( I) Construction of a Multipurpose Institute at Sankh 

20 % 
(2 ) Construction of a Multipurpose Institute at Karma . 

20 % 
(3 ) Construction of Maternity and Child Welfare Centre with residental quarters at 
Dhab . . . . . . . 

90 % 

. 
( 4) Construction of 15 dia , 8o deep well at Dhab 
( 5) Construction of a small well for Dhorakola Dispensary . 

20 % 
(6) Construction of additional quarters for staff of Mica Mines Welfare Fund at 

Karma: 
( a ) Onc for Assistant Engineer . . . . . . . . . 45 % 
(6 ) One for Assistant Welfare Inspector 
(C) 21 for class III staff . . . . . . . 

10 % 
(d ) 14 for class IV staff 

45 % 
(7) Construction of garage and quarters for the Mobile Medical Unit at Dhorakola . 85 % 
( 8 ) Construction of Storc for Anti -Malaria Section with Laboratory for rescarch work 
at Karma . . . . . . . . . 

. . 60 % 
(9 ) Construction of Ayah and Peons quarters for Multi -purpose Institute at :-- 
( a ) Dhab . . . . . . . . . 

20 % 
(b ) Debour . . . . . . . 

. . . . 35 % 
(c) Saphi . . . . . . . . . . 

12 % 


68 % 


45 % 


PART IV - RAJASTHAN 
The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee held two meetings 
during the period under review . According to the provisions of The State Re 
Organisation Act, 1956 the State of Ajmer merged with that of Rajasthan with 
effect from 1st November 1956 . Steps were being taken to reconstitute a new 
Advisory Committee for the new State of Rajasthan . 

I. WELFARE SCHEMES 
During the year under review , the Welfare Centres at Amli , Bagore , Bemali , 
Ropa ( the welfare centre Jamoli was shifted to Ropa on 1st May 1956 ) Lawa 
Sardargarh , Bhilwara , Mandal, Gangapur and Kishangarh worked in full swing , 

II, MEDICAL FACILITIES 
( a ) Static Dispensaries. - Five static dispensaries are functioning at Amll , 
Bogore , Bemali, Ropa and Lawa - Sardargarh . The number of patients treated 
during the year is as follows: 


Name of dispensary 


Name of patients 

treated 


1955- 56 


1956 - 57 


I. Amli . . . . 
2 . Bagore . . . 
3 . Bemali . . . 
4 . Ropa . . . . 
5 . Lawa-Sardargarh . . 

TOTAL 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 
. 


8538 
14037 
10696 
6945 
7471 


9741 
16811 
11035 
7765 
5724 
51076 


47687 


2918 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1957 /AGRAHAYANA 80 , 1879 [PART II 

= H = : * - - - - - - - - - - - - 
In addition to the regular work in the dispensaries the medical officers, com 
pounders and midwives used to visit villages and mines to advise the workers 
regarding prevention of diseases, improvement of health and sanitation and to 
treat serious patients . Paludrine tablets were distributed in the mining areas 
to prevent malaria before as well as during rainy season . 

(b ) Mobile Medical Units . - The Mobile Medical Units go on the specified 
routes every day and cover those mica areas which are not covered by the static 
dispensaries . The number of patients treated by these units during the year 15 
as follows: 


Number of 
patlents treated 
1955 - 56 1956 


Name of the Unit 


G 
$ 4 


I . Mandal 
2 . Bhilwara . 
3 . Gangapur . 
4 . Kishangarh 

TOTAL 


to 


7203 
6950 
7086 
5817 


. 
. 
. 


10 


5130 
20871 


. 


27056 


The Gangapur Unit functioned only for six months during the period und 
review as the Medical Officer resigned and went away , 

( c ) Maternity and Child Welfare. There was one Lady Health Visitor at the 
Welfare Centre , Bagore and one Midwife in each contre, They visited po . t 
natal and ante -natal cases and attended to labour cases . Milk was distributed 
to children upto 12 years of age and expectant and nursing mothers . Cleanlines 
was given much importance and the children were given ordinary bath before 
distributing milk , Oil bath was also given once in a week at the Ropa Welfare 
Centre . The children were examined once in a week and proper trcalment was 
given . The children showed much interest and enthusiasm in inaking use of 
merry - go - round , sea saw , junior combination and other special games articles 
provided for them . The work done in this direction is as detailed below : 


1955 -56 


1956 - 51 


, 


70 
130 


I, No. of delivery cases conducted . 
2 . No. of Ante - natal cases treated 
3 . No. of Post-natal cases treated 
4 . No. of Children treated , 
5 . No. of Ante -natal casco visited 
6 . No. of Post- natal cases visited 
7 . No . of Infants and todlers undercare 
8 . No. of homus visited 


143 
I15 
185 
1409 
121 


IOI 


3341 
154 


196 


1590 


X 
MI 


1468 


ang 


Milk Distribution 


Welfare Centres 


No. of Beneficiarja 
1955 -56 1956 -57 


I . Amli 
2 . Bagore 
3 . Bemali . . . 
4 . Ropa . . . . 
5 . Lawa-Sardargarh 

TOTAL 


7658 
3929 
12361 
2728 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


13590 

712 
23231 

5801 
SË 
55691 


8451 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


35127 


Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 2919 


IJI, EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES 
( a ) Adult Education . Taking into consideration the growing need of adult 
education much care was taken to educate as many adults as possible , The 
education to adults was imparted at the following centres : 

Ropa , Jamoli, Bemali, Lawa - Sardargarh , Bagore , Ganeshpura , Gundli , Dhosar , 
Mahendragarh , Amli , Toonka ( Dadia ) and Khatia -Khedi. 

The total average attendance at these places were 186 per day . The adult 
education classes were conducted according to the curriculam of the State Gov 
Crnment. Slates, books and pencils were supplied free 

( b ) Schools . The primary schools worked at Dhosar , Ganeshpura and 
Loonka. At the Amli centre , there is already a primary school of the State Gov 
foment. So , VI and VII classes were conducted by the Fund . 

( c ) Reading Room and Library . - The centres at Bagore and Amli were pro 
Sided with reading room and library. Some of the other centres were supplied 
with Hindi Newspapers, 
$ ) ( d ) First Aid Class. First aid classes were conducted at all the welfare centres 
except Ropa , Out of 194 candidates who appeared , 94 were declared successful . 


. ( e ) Health and Safety Exhibition . - - In April 1956 , an exhibition was arranged 
at Gangapur, which was highly appreciated by the labourers and other public . 
This organisation got second price for its exhibition stalls arranged in 

The Development Exhibition " at Bhilwara in November 1956 . In the exhibition 
conducted by the Rajasthan Government, at the time of " Sadhu - Sammelan " at 
Nathdwara in December 1956 , the exhibition stall put by this organisation secured 

prominent place . 


IV , RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES 
( a ) To meet the requirements of the people , all the Centres , Sub - Centres and 
important mines were supplied with indoor and outdoor games articles . Besides 
this, five centres were provided with radio sets . In all these centres , the labourers 
1stened to radio programmes , specially news and village programmes. 


The average attendance in the centres were as under : 


Average Attendance 

- - - - - - - 
Name of place 

Name of centres 


S . No. 


1955 - 56 


1956 - 57 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. Bemali 


41 


64 


I , Bemali . 
2 . Grodhakhan 
3 . erla 

uharia 
Indu 


Bemall 


208 


1 


18 


· 


Ropa . 
LAWA- Sardargarh . 
Bemali 
Bagorc 

Do . 


4W2- Sardargarh 
regas . : 
Hagore , . 
saneshpura 
oonka . 
Gundli , 
wali . , 
Dhosar 
ilahendragarh , 

Goli . . 


Do. 


Do. 
Ali. 

Do. 

Do . 
Ropa . 


, 


. . 
. 


. 


. 


. 


ΤοΤΑΣ 


626 


688 


= 


2020 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957 / AGRAHAYANA 30 , 1879 PART II 
= 

= 
( b ) Mobile Cinema Unit. - The Mobile Cinema Van paid visits to all important 
mining arcas and exhibited films free of charge. This unit gave 131 free shows, 
during the period under review at different places covering a total distance of 
2928 miles . 

( c ) Welfare Week . - The welfare wcek , from the 24th January 1957 to the 
31st January 1957 was organised by the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund , 
Rajasthan covering also the Republic -day on the 26th January 1957, in its cere 
mony . The Republic Day programme began with Prabhat Pheries and flag 
hoisting, games and sports , dramas and other cultural programme were organised , 
women workers also participated in sports at Amli centre. In the evening meet 
Ings were held at which significance of the Republic day was explained . 

The Independence Day was celebrated in a befitting manner at all centres 
arranging special programmes. The programme in each centre included " Sharam 
dan " , baby show , sports and canes competition , variety entertainnents and public 
meetings. 

Cultural functions were also held at all the centres on days like Janmashtami, 
Harijan day , Maha Shivratri, Holi Sitla - saptami etc. 

A tournament was organised by the Department of Labour, Government of 
Rajasthan at Jaipur. The team of Mica Mines Labour Wellare Fund , Rajasthan 
also participated . 

V CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES 
Necessary arrangements were being made to start co - operative societies at all 
the welfare centres . Co - operative societies at Amli and Bemali were running 
smoothly . 

VI. CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS 
The construction of the B type welfare centre at Lawa -Sardargarh had been 
completed . Stęps were being taken to expedite the construction of other welfare 
centres buildings, head office building and staff quarters. 

VII. OTHER ACTIVTTIES 
The local committees formed at all welfare centres continued functioning by 
giving proper guidance to the centres in all directions. 

Statement of Accounts for the year 1956 -57 


Receipts 


Expenditure 


Ra. 


As. P . 


7 . 26 , 427 29 
1 ,77 ,636 5 II 
1 , 95 ,648 10 

25 , 008 II 0 


on 


Rs. As. P . 
Opening balance on the 
Ist April 1956 . 1 ,33,81 ,571 15 6 Bihar 

Andhra 
Rajasthan 

Ajmer 
Receipts during the year 

Closing balance 
1956 - 57 

32 ,56 ,449 0 0 31 - 3- 57 
TOTAL 

1, 66 , 38 ,020 15 6 
* Estimates of Receipts and Expenuliture for 1957- 58 
Receipts . . . 
Expenditure . . 

Rs. 
Bihar . . 

19 ,74 ,000 0 0 
Andhra . , 

6 ,52 ,000 0 0 
Rajasthan 

9 ,49,000 OO 


1,55 ,13, 300 10 10 
1, 66 , 38 ,020 15 6 


17 , 00 , 000 OO 


35 ,75 ,000 OO 


e accepted for the budget estimates for 1957 -58. 


[ No. MIII -33 ( 3 ) 57.) 


SEC. 8] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1957/ AGRAHAYANA 90, 1879 2021 

= 

- - - - 
CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 11th December 1957 


S . R . O . 4066. — In the Ministry of Labour & Employment Notification No. 
S . R .O . 3568, dated the 31st October 1957, published in the Gazette of India , Part 
II , Section 3 , dated the 9th November 1957, for “ University of Burham " , read 
University of Durham " . 

[No. M .III.34 (16 )/ 57.) 


S . RANGASWAMI, Under Secy . 


ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 11th December 1967 


S . R . O . 4067 - Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that an 
Industrial dispute exists or is apprehended between the employers in relation to 
the Katras Choitodih Colliery and their workmen in respect of the inatters speci 
fied in the schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - sec 
tion ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri 
bunal at Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 
(i) Whether the services of Shri Azimuddin Ashraf , Register Keeper of 

Katras-Choitdih Colliery , were wrongfully terminated ? 
( II) Whether he is entitled to reinstatement and / or any compensation or 
any other relief? 

[No. LRII / 55 - 2 ( 26 )/ 57. ] 


New Delhi, the 12th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4068. Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indus 
trial dispute exists or is apprehended between the employers in relation 
to Howrah - Amta Light Railways , Calcutta and their workmen in respect of the 
matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and 
clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 , of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ), the Central Government hercby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal 
with Shri A . Das Gupta, Member , Labour Appellate Tribunal, as the Presiding 
Omcer, with headquarters at Calcutta , and refers the said dispute to the said 
Tribunal for adjudication . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Howrah - Amtą Light Railways wrongfully 
terminated the services of Kartik Chandra Das, Khalasi and Kartik Chandra 
Das, Canteen Cook , ex - employees of Bankra Workshop . If so whether they are 
entitled for reinstatement and with what benefits . 

[No. LR- 3( 37)/ 57.] 
New Delhi, the 17th December 1957 
S . R . O . 4069._ Whercas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the Hindustan Mercantile Bank Limited , Calcutta ard its 
workmen , regarding the matter specificd in the Schedule hereto anncxed ; 


2922 . 


GA ; 


OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1987 / AGRAHAYANA 30, 1879 (PART II 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A , and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri A , Das Gupta , Member , Labour Appellate Tribunal, as the Presiding Officer , 
with headquarters at Calcutta and refers the said dispute to the said Tribunal 
for adjudication . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether Shri R . P . Dubey , a workman of the Hindustan Mercantile Bank 
Limited , is entitled to a special allowance of Rs, 40 as prescribed in paragraph 164 
of the Award of the All India Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes ) ag modified 
by section 3 of the Industrial Disputes (Banking Companies ) Decision Act, 1955 . 

[No, LR - 10 ( 62 ) / 57 .] 
A . L . HANDA , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1957 
S .R . O . 4070 . - The Central Government hereby : 
( a ) directs , in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Government 

of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S . R .O . 
3805 , dated the 26th December , 1955 and in modification of Order 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 3079 , dated the 20th September , 1957, that 
the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay 
shall consist of 31 members with effect from the 11th December , 

1957; and 
( b ) appoints , after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors , 

Dr. J . F . Bulsara, as a member of the Advisory Panel of the sald 
Board at Bombay with effect from the 11th December , 1957 in exer 
cise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 read with 
sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorsbip ) Rules , 
1951. 

[No. 14 / 3 / 57 -FC .] 
D . R . KHANNA , Under Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVT. OF INDIA PRE88 , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLIŞHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1987 


