PEGISTERED No. D . 


. 


1 


The Eazette w of Endia 

- 80 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY , W vs NTV. .., 


- 


- - - 


- = - = - 


= 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


= 


No. 40 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , OCTOBER 6 , 1956 


-- 


- 


= 


= 


= - 


- 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazetics of India );xtraordinary were published uplo the 29th 
September 1956 : 


Issuc 
No . 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


- - - 


- - - - -- 


- - 


- - - -- - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


277 | S . R . O . 2142 , dated the 24th Ministry of Commerce 
September , 1956 . 

and Consumer In - 
dustries . 


Amendment made in the 

Cotton Textilcs ( Control) 
Order , 1948 . 


278 


S . R . O . 2143 , dated the 24th 

September, 1956 . 


Ministry of Finance 

( Department of Re 
yenue 


The Central Government 

exempts capillary glass 
tubing imported into India 
or the State of Pondicherry 
from the whole of the duty of 
Customis leviable thereon 
under the Indian Tariff 
Aci, 1934 (32 of 1934 ). 


279 S . R . O . 2144 , dated the Ministry vf Commerce Antendment made in the Cot 
24th Septemher , 1956 . and Consumer Indus - į ton Textiles ( Control ) Order , 
trics . 

1948, 
280 S . R . O , 2145, Jated the Government of Ajmei , ! Corrigendum to Notification 
24th September, 1956 . 

No . 6 / 5 / 56 - LSG - II, dated 

the 8th September, 1956 , 
281 | S . R . O . 2209 , dated the Ministry of Foreid & The Central Government 
26th September , 1956 . L Agriculture, 

enipowers the Government 
of Assam to make orders 117 
relation to the export of 
certain commodities under 
the Essential Commodities 
Act, 1955 ( TO ( 1955 ). 


282 | S . R . O . 2210 , dated the Ministry of Information 

21st September , JOS . I and Broadcasting. 


The Central Government certi 

fies a (ilm specified in the 
Schedule to be of the des 
cription specified therein . 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


1669. 


1070 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6, 1966 


[Part II— SEC. 3 


Issue 
No. 


No, and date 


Lasued by 


Subject 


283 


S . R . O . 2211, dated the Ministry of Commerce 
18th September, 1956. į and Consumer Indus 

tries. 


S . R . O . 2212 , dated the 

28th September , 1956 . 


Ministry of Finance 


Amendment made in the Tex 

tile Commissioner s Not 
fication No. S . R . O . 1589, 
dated the 23rd June, 1956 . 
Appointment of a date from 

which the State Financial 
Corporations (Amendment) 
Act, 1956 shall come into 
force. 


285 


S . R . O . 2213, dated the Ministry of Health 

28th September , 1996 , 


1 


Amendment made in the Pre 

vention of Food Adultera 
don Rules, 1955 . 


-- - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi, Indents should be submitted 30 n9 to reach the Manager 
withir ten days of the date of issue of these Gazettes. 


PART IISection 3 


Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


New Delhi- 2, the 25th September, 1956 . 


S . R . O . 2219 . - In exercise of powers conferred by Section 5 of the Abducted 
Persons (Recovery and Restoration ) Act No. LXXVII of 1952, the Government 
of India are pleased to authorise Shri J . T . Banerjee, Sub - Inspector of Police , 
Calcutta Branch of the Delhi Special Police Establishment, to exercise powers 
under that Section . 


The authorisation issued in this behalf to Shri Harbans Singh vide this 
Ministry s notification No. 34 / 114 /52 - P . II , dated the 23rd July 1953 is hereby 
cancelled . 


[No, F . 38 / 40 /56 - Police II .) . 
J. N . DHAMIJA , Dy . Secy . 


New Delhi- 2 , the 26th September 1956 


S . R . O . 2220 . - In pursuance of clause (b ) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules, 1956 , the Central 
Goyernment hereby appointe cach of the officers specified in cloumn 2 of the Schedule hereto 
annexed to perform in the State of Assam the functions of the Collector under thc said Rulcs in 
respect of the Arca specified agpinst him in the corresponding entry of column 3 ond comprisod 
within the district mentioned in column 1 of the said Schedule . 


PART 1 - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 8, 1956 


1671 


SCHEDULE 


Name of the 

district 


Designation of the officer 


Arta 


I 


Cachar 


Sr. E . A . C ., Silchar , 
Addl., Special Officer, R / 
S . D . C ., Silchar . 


E . A . C ., Silchar. .. 
Project Executive Officer, Silc 
S . D . C . , Katigora . 
R / R . Officer Silchair . 
E . A . C ., Sich ir 
Developmert Officer , Silchar. 
S . D . C ., Senai. . . 


S . D . O ., Hailakandi. 
Sub -Deputy Msgistrate , Hailakandi. 


E . A . C ., Hailakandi, 


Silchar Sub - Division . 
Silchar Municipal area . 
Barakpar Ph . (excepting Silchar Muni 

cipal arca ) Chatla Ph . 

Joynagar, Barkhola and Bikrampur Phs. 
. . Jairapur, Pulbari & Rajnagar Phs. 

Katigora , Haritikar & Levarpota Phs. 
Jhalalpur Gumra & Kalain rilis , 
Ullarbonu Ph . 
Lakhipur, Baskhandi & Rupaibuli Phs. 
Sonapur , Devidsonabed , Bomraj & Blu 

banhill Phs. 
Hailakandi Sub - Division . 
Chowkiduri Circle Nos. I to 7 including 

Panchgram Colony area , Chandipur, 
Mohar pur Colony, Badarpur T . E . 
Burnie Braes T . E . including Mohan 

pur Grant, Chandipur T . E . 
Chowkidari Circle Nos. 8 - - 13 and 15 , 

inclucing Hailakandi Town and its 
suburbs. (Natunpara , Lakshmishah 
ar , College Road Colony Paikan 
and Supkhana ) Bandukmara T . E . 
Kuchila grant, Chandpur and its 

around including Serispore T . E . 
Kanchanpore T . E ., Martyganj Pan 

chayat arca . 
. Chowkidari Circle Nos . 16 - - 19 and 21 

including Aenakhal T . E . Lakhinagar 
and Monacherra gant, Santhalia 
T . E ., Koya T . E ., Lalabazar , Gagle 
cherr T . E ., Lalamukh, Lala 
Panchayat area . 
Chowkidari Circle Nos . 23 - 24 and 
· 26 including Vernerpur T . E . Lala 
chera T . E ., Rodpachera T . E ., 
Colony, Appin T . E ., & Colony, 
Katlichera grant including Niskar 
and Lalpani. Katlicherrabazar and 
its suburbs including Swarupnagar 

Colony . Kariichertapanchayat area. 
Chowkidari Circle No. 30 including 

Manipur T . E ., Dholai T . E ., Kuki 
cherre grant & Forest village , Sultani 

cherra T . E . 
Karimganj Sub - Division . 
, Bhanga Rural Panchayat, Shrigouri 

Badarpur Rural Panchayat, Badarpur 
Rly . Colony, Rabbania T . E ., Lalwani 


S .D . C ., Hailakandi. 


. 


, 


Inspector of Supply , Hailakandi. 


Development Officer, Heilakandi. 


S . D . O ., Karimganj. 
Development Officer, Karimganj 


T . 8 . 


ILAM S . D . C ., Karimganj. 


. 


. 
. 


. 
, 


R . R .Officer, Karlmgan ). 


Ward No. III, IV and V of Karimgan } 

towa, 
Dharmasashan Refugee Colony. 
Mohantall Refugee Colony. 
Darirpar Refugee Colony. 
Shrikrishnapur Refugec Colony. 


B .A .C . II, Karimganj. 


. 


: 


Ward No. 1,II dŅd VI of Karimganj 


1673) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6, 1956 


(PART - SIC. 8 


- . 


Cachat - - cond . D .I. of Schools, Karimganj. . . Chowkidari Circle Nos. 5 , 12 , 14 , 16 . 17 , 

18 , 19 , 25 , 26 , 27 , 28 , 29 , 30 , 34, 35, 39 
of Karimganj Thana , Nilambazaar, 
Rural Panchayat, Aylabari T . E ., Jalal 
nagar T . E ., Durganagar T . H ., 
Madan pur T . E ., Promadenagar T . E ., 
Shri Modon Mohan T . E . Ramani 

Krishna C . E ., Mahmadpur T . E . 
E . A . C . Special Revenue Officer , Kerimganj. Chowkidari Circles Nos. 1 - 11, 21 -24 , 

37 and 38 of Karimganj, P . S . Karim 

ganj Rly. Colony. 
S .D . C ., Patherkandi. . . . Chowkidari Cirlcle Nos. 1 — 18 of Pather 

kandi Police Station . 
A . C . F ., Patherkandi, 

Duhalia Refugee Colony . 
Bazarichcra Refugee Colony . 
Basudev Nagar Refugee Colony. 
Longai Reserve Forest Village . 

Singla Reserve Forest Village. 
Spl. Oflicer R .,R ., Karimganj. . Eraligool T . E . Krishna Gobinda 

Farish Chandra T . E ., Bhubrighąt 
T . E ., Adamtilla T . E ., Longai T . E ., 
Chandkhira T . E ., Lal- Khira T . E ., 
Song Khira T . E ., Scpen 
juri (Medly ) T . E ., Piplugul T . E ., 
Tirimty T . E ., Silbhum , Bhirband 
Pathuri, Chamapaburi Baithakbal 

Salgoi, Huthi Khira , Isabil T . Estates . 
Inspector of Supply , Kerimganj. . Chowkidari Circle Nos. 2 – 5 , 12 - 19 of 

Ratabari P . S . and Ratabari Rural 

Panchayat, 
Project lixecutive Officer , Karimganj. Ramkrishna Nagar, Sunbeel Kalinagar, 

Velirbund und Cheragi Refugec Co 

lony. 
S . n .c . and Manager, Dewan Manik Chargola, Chargola Velly Anipur, Kala 
Chand Ward of Estate . 

cherra , Tarboncherra , Sonaichert , 
Kalinagur, Singlacherra , Chunotiyool, 
Bidyanagar , Dullacherra , Mukun 
cherru , Lalcherra , Goobheria , 
Maguracherra , Koshinathpur, 
Kakragoo), Oliviacherra , Pathak 
huri, Usharani, Benodini, Rajaram 
pur, Manik Nagar Tea Extales , 


Sibsagar 


A . D . M ., Jorhat . 
S . D . C ., Jorhat , 
S . D . C ., Majuli . 
S . D . C ., Titabai , 
S . D . O ., Sibsagar . 
S . D . C ., Sibsagar 
S . D . C . Sonari 
S . D . C .,Nazira . 
S . D . O ., Golaghat 
Sr. E .A . C ., Golaghat . 
S . D . C ., Dergaon 


Jorhat Sadar Sub - Division . 
Jorhat ( Sadar ) Circle . 
Mojuli Cırcle . 
Titabar Circle . 
Sibsagar Sub - Division .. 
Sibsagar Circle. 
Sonari Circle , 
Nazira Circle 
Golaghat Sub -Division , 
Golaghat Circle . 
Dergoan Circle 


Darrang . 


Sr. E . A . C ., Tezpur 
S . D . C ., Tezpur 
S . D . Ç . Biswanath 
S . D . C ., Halem 
S . D . O ., Mangaldai 
S . D . C ., Mangaldai 
S . D . C ., Kalaigaon 


Tezpur Sub -Division . 
Tezpur Circls. 
Biswanath Circle . 
Halem Circle . 
Mangaldai Sub - Division , 
Mangaldai Circle . 
Kalaigaon Circle . 


PART 1 - $ IC . 3 ] 


TMB GAZEITE UN INDIA , OCIOBAR O , 1900 


1073 


- 


- 


- - - 


Nougong . S .D . C ., Nowgong Sadar. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Sadar Nowgong Circle (excluding the 

town area ) 
Nowgong town only . 
Samaguri Circle . 
Marigaon Circle . 
Raha Circlc . 
Kampur Circle . 
Dhing Circle , 


The whole of the Garo Ilills district. 
. Mikir Hills Sub - Division . 


Election Officer , Nowgong . . 
S . D . C ., Samaguri 
S . D . C ., & A . S . O ., Marigaon . 
S . D . C ., Raha . 
S . D . C ., Kampur . 

S . D . C . Dhing . . 
Garo Hills. S . D . C ., Tura 
United Mi- E . A . C . Mikir Hills, Diphu . . 
kir and North 
Cachar Hills , 

S . D . O ., N . C . Hills Hatlong . 
United Khasi A . D . M ., Shillong 
and Juintia Sr. E . A . C ., Shillong . 
Hills. 

S . D . O ., Jowai. 
Nugu Hills Asstt, to 1) . C . Naga Hills, Dimapur 
Mix Hills Sr. Asstt. to D . C ., Mizo Hills, Aijal 

S . D . C ., Lungleh . 


. N .C . Hills Sub-Division . 
. Shillong Sub -Division . 

Shillong Sub - Division . 


Jowai Sub - Division 
The whole of the Naga Hills District. 
Aijal Sub - Division . 
Lungleh Sub - Division , 


Kumrup . 


S . D . O , (Sadar ), Gauhati 
S . D . C ., Gauhati 
S . D . C ., Palasbari 
S . D . C ., Chaygaon 
S . D . C ., Rangiya 
S . D . C ., Nalbari 
S . D . C ., Tihu 
S . D . C ., Tamulpur 
S . D . C ., Hajo 
S . D . O ., Barpeta 
Sr. E . A . C ., Barpeta 
S . D . C . , Baghbar 
S . D . C ., Barnagar 
S . D . C ., Bajali 


Gauhati Sub - Division , 
Gauhati Circle . 
Palasbari Circle . 

Chayagaon Circle. 
. Rangiya Circle. 

Nalbari Circle. 
Tihu Circle . 
Tamulpur Circle . 
Hajo Circle . 
Barpeta Sub - Division . 
Borpeta Circle , 
Baghbar Circle . 
Barnagar Circle . 
Bajali Circle . 


Lakhimpur 


S . D . O ., ( Sadar ), Dibrugarlı . 
S . D . C ., Dibrugarh West 
S . D . C ., Tinsukia 
S . D . C ., Naharkatia 
S . D . O ., North Lakh mpur 
S . D . C ., Bihpuria 
S . D . C ., Subanairi 
S . D . C ., Rangenadi 


Dibrugarh Sub - Division , 
Dibrugarh West Circle . 
Tinsukia Circle , 
Naharkatia Circlc . 
North Lakhimpur Sub - Division 
Bhipuria Circle 
Subansiri Circle . 
Ranganadi Circle . 


Goulparu 


Manuger, Gauripur Raj Wards Estate, Entire area under Golokgung Thuna . 

Gaouripur. 
Manager , Parbat Jourcum - Chaper ac - Entire area under Bilashipara Thana . 

quired Estate, Rilashiparı . 
S . D . C ., Sidli Circle 

Entire arcas under Bijni & Şidli Thanas . 
S . D . C ., Dhubri (Sadar ) Circlc . . Entire areas under Dhubri & South 

Sumara Thanas . 
Manager Mechparard Wurds Estate Lak - Mankachar Thana. 

himpur. 
E . A . C ., Kokrajhør 

Kokrajhar und Gossaingaon Thanas. 
S . D . O ., Goalpara 

Goalpara Şub - Divialon . 
Sr. E . A . C ., Goalparu 

Goalpark and Ducral Thanas. 
Manager, Bijni Raj Wards Estete Ab - North Salmaro THADA. 

hoyapur: 
Manager, Mechpara Warda Estate Lakhim - Lakhimpur Thana. 
pur 

(No. 1083 /16-ICI 


1674 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6 , 1966 


[ PART II - Sec. $ 


New Delhi, the 1st October 1956 
S . R . O . 2221, In pursuance of clauşe ( b ) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules , 
1956 , the Central Government hereby appoints each of the officers specified in 
column 1 of the Schedule hereto annexed to perform in the State of Delhi the 
functions of the Collector under the said Rules in respect of the area specified 
against him in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Schedule . 

SCHEDULE 


Designation of Once 


Area 


Additional District 
Magistrates, Delhi. 


The whole of the 

Delhi State . 
[ No. 10 / 3 / 56 - 1.C . ] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 1st October 1956 
$ . R . O . 2222 . - In the Schedule annexed to the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Home Affairs , No. 10 / 3 / 56 - (1) - IC , dated the 1st August , 
1956 , published at page 1353 of the Gazette of India , Part II - Section 3 dated the 
11th August, 1956 , for the entry in column 2 against Item No. 10 read the follow 
ing : - 
" Sadar Sub - Division , Tahsil areas of Mohanpur, Bamutia , Simna and 
Sadar ( excluding Agartala Municipal area )" . 

[No. 10 / 3 /56- 1.C . ] 
FATEH SINGH, Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi- 2 , the 26th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2223 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 2 of the Part 
C States ( Laws) Act, 1950 ( 30 of 1950 ) , and in partial modification of the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of States No. 
63 - J dated the 24th May , 1950 , the Central Government hereby extends to 
the State of Kutch section 46 of the Bombay Agricultural Debtors Feliet Act, 
1947 ( Bombay Act, 28 of 1947 ) , as now in force in the State of Bombay, and 
directs that in the said notification , clause 12 ( relating to scction 48 ) shall be 
omitted 

[No. F . 10 ( 5 ) - J / II /56 .] 


New Delhi- 2 , the 27th September 1958 
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 2 of the Part C States ( Laws ) 
Act , 1950 ( XXX of 1950 ) , the Central Government hereby extends to the State 
of Tripura the Bihar Control of the Use and Play of Loud - Speakers Act , 1956 
( Bihar Act XII of 1955 ) , as now in force in the State of Bihar , subject to the 
following modifications, namely : -- - 

Modifications 
1. ( a ) Throughout the Act, except in clause ( b ) of section 3 , for the words 
" State Government" , the words " Chief Commissioner" shall be substituted : 

(b ) throughout the Act, for the words " Offcial Gazette " , the words " State 
Gazette " shall be substituted ; 

2 . In the Act , 

( a ) for sub - section ( 2 ) of section 1, the following sub - section shall be 
substituted , namely : - . 

" ( 2 ) It extends to the whole of the State of Tripura" ; 
( b ) in section 3 
( i) in the proviso , for the words " a municipal area " . the words " the 

municipal area specified in the Explanation below " shall be 
substituted ; 


PART I - Se¢, 3 ] 


. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 8 , 1956 


1675 


( ii ) for the Explanation , the following Explanation shall be substituted , 

namely : 
" Explanation . - - The municipal area referred to above means the area 

constituted for the time being as Agartala Municipality under the 

Tripura State Municipal Act, 1349 T .E . (Act II of 1349 T .E .) " ; 
( c ) in the proviso to section 5 ( 1) , after the word "humanitarian " , the words 
" educational or cultural" shall be inserted ; 

( d ) in section 7 ( 1 ) , the word " Assistant” before the words " Sub - Inspector 
oi Police" shall be omitted ; 

( c ) in section 9 , after the words " punishable with ” , the word " simple " shall 
be inserted ; 
( 1) scation 11 shall be omitted . 

ANNEXURE 
THE BIHAR CONTROL OF THE USE AND PLAY OF LOUD - SPEAKERS ACT. 

1955 ( ACT XII OF 1955 ) AS MODIFIED . 
An Act to control the use and play of Loud - Spcakers in the State of Bihar , 

Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the Sixth Year 
of the Republic of India as follows: 

1. Short title and excent. - ( 1 ) This Act may be called the Bihar Control 
of the Use and Play of Loud - Speakers Act, 1955. 

( 2 ) Il extends to the whole of the State of Tripura. 

2 . Definition - In this Act, unless there in anything repugnant in the subject 
or context, 
(i) " Loud - Speaker " means an instrument to augment small sounds , vocal, 

instrumentai or recorded ; and 
( 111 ) " prcscribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 
3. Restriction against use and play of loud -speakers.- - No person shall use 
and play a loud - speaker 
( a ) within such distance as may be prescribed from a hospital or from a 

building in whlch there is a telephone exchange ; or 
( b ) within such distance as may be prescribed from any educational 

institution maintained , managed , recognised or controlled by the 
State Government, a University established under any law for the 
time being in forcę, or a local authority or — admitted to such 
University , or any hostel maintained , managed or recognised by 
such institution when such institution or hostel is in the use of 

students ; 
( c ) within such distance as may be prescribed from a building in which 

a Court is held during the hours of working of such Court; or 
( d ) between the hours of 10 P . M . and 6 AM , without the permission in 

writing of the prescribed authority ; 
Provided that the provision of clause ( b ) , ( c ) or ( e ) shall not apply to 

any local area other than the municipal area specified in the Expla 
nation below until a notification applying the provision to such local 
area has been published in the State Gazette by the Chief Com 

missioner or the prescribed authority . 
Explanation . The municipal area referred to above the area constituted 

for the time being as Agartala Municipality under the Tripura 

State Municipal Act, 1349 T. E . ( Act 2 of 1349 T . E .) . 
4 . Exemption .--- Notwithstanding anything contained in clauses ( a ) , (b ) and 
( c ) of section 3 , a loud - speaker may be used and played with the permission 
in writing of the prescribed authority for any cultural, educational or humani 
tarian purposes or for purposes connected with the maintenance of law and 
order . 

5 . Application for permission to use loud - speaker. - ( 1 ) Every application 
for perimssion under section 3 or 4 shall be made to the prescribed authority 
in the prescribed form and shall bear a court - fee stamp of one rupee : 

Provided that no fees shall be charged for applications for the use and play 
of loud - speakers for humanitarian , educational or cultural purposes or for 
purposes connected with the maintenance of law and order . 


1676 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6 , 1958 


[PART II Suc . 3 


( 2 ) The prescribed authority may grant or reject the application , and , in 
gianting such application , may impose any restriction or condition subject to 
which the applicant muy use and play loud - speaker . 

6 . Cognizanre of offences under this Act . — No Magistrate shall take cogni 
zance of an offence under this Act except on a complaint made by , or it the 
instance of, the person aggrieved by such offence or upon a report in writing 
made by any police officer : 

Provided that nothing contained in this section shall affect the provisions 
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 ( V of 1898 ) , in regard to the powers 
of certain Magistrates to take cognizance of oftcnces upon information received 
or upon their own knowledge . 

7 . Power to seize loud -speaker, — ( 1 ) Any police officer not below the rank 
of Sub - Inspector of Police , who finds a person using and playing a loud - speaker 
in contravention of the provisions of this Act , may seize the loud - speaker . 

( 2 ) Such police officer or any Court before which the loud -speaker is pro 
duced may release it in favour of any person claiming to be entitled to the 
possession thereof on his executing a bond with or without surcties , to the 
satisfaction of the police officer or the Court, engaging to produce the loud 
Speaker whenever called upon to do so . 

8 . Offences to be bailable . - -An offence under this Act shall be bailable. 

9 . Penalty . - Any person who contravenes , any of the provisions of this Act 
shall be punishable with simple imprisonment which rnay extend to one month 
or with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees or with both ; and the 
Court trying such contravention may , on conviction of such person direct that 
the loud - speaker seized under Section 7 shall be forfeited to Government: 

Provided that when the owner of the loud - speaker is a person other than 
the person convicted , the Court shall , before passing the order of forfeiture , 
give such owner a reasonable opportunity of showing cause, if any , against 
such order , 

10 . Power to make rules. — The Chief Commissioner may, after previous 
publication in the Stale Gazette , make rules for carrying out the purposes of 
This Act . 

[No. F . 12 ( 13 ) - J / II / 56 . ] 
M . P . RODRIGUES , Under Secy 


New Delhi- " , the 27th September , 1956 
S . R . O . 2224 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 2 of the Part 
C States ( Laws) Act, 1930 ( 30 of 1950 ) , the Central Government hereby extends 
to the State of Kutca che Bombay Sales of Motor Spirit Taxation Act, 1946 
( Bombay, Act No . VI of 1946 ) , as at present in force in the State of Bombay , 
subject to the following modifications, namely : 
1. Throughout the Act , 
( a ) for the words " State of Bombay " and for the words " State Govern 

ment" wherever they occur, the words " State of Kutch " and " Chief 

Commissioner of Kutch " shall be respectively substituted ; 
( b ) For the word " Collector " wherever it occurs the word " Commissioner ” 

shall be substituted . 
2 . For clause ( A - I ) in section 2 the following clause shall be substituted , 
ramely : 
( A - I) . " Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Sales Tax appointed 

under the Control Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947 ( Central 
Provinces and Berar Act No. XXI of 1947 ) , as in force in the 

State of Kutch . 
3. Section 5 - A shall be omitted . 

4. For sub - section ( 5 ) of section 6 , the following sub -section shall be substi 
tuted , namely : 
( 5 ) A certificato of registration granted or renewed under the Central 

Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act , 1947 (Central Provinces and 
Berar Act , XXI of 1947) , as in force in the State of Kutch , shall 
be deemed to be licence granted or renewed under this Act. 


PART II + Sec . 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6 , 1956 


1677 


5 . In sub - section ( 2 ) of section 10 for the words " Reserve Bank of India " 
the words " State Bank of India " shall be substituted . 

6 . In scction 19 the words " Presidency Magistrate or a " shall be omitted . 

7 . In section 20 for the words any person appointed to assist him under 
Sicţion 3 of the Bombay Sales Tax Act , 1946 , not below the rank of a Sales 
Tax Officer ( Junior ) " , the words " a Sales Tax Officer appointed to assist him 
under the Central Provinies and Berar Sales Tax Act , 1947 ( Central Provinces 
and Berar Act, No. XXI ON 1947 ) , as in force in the State of Kutch ," shall be 
substituted . 
8 . Section 27 shall be omitted . 

ANNEXURE 
THE BOMBAY SALES OF MOTOR SPIRIT TAXATION ACT, 1946 

BOMBAY ACT NO. VI OF 1946 
Amended by Born . 9 of 1948. 
Adapted and modified by the Adaptation of Laws Order , 1950 . 
Amended hy Bom . 50 of 1950 . 
Amended by Bom . 13 of 1952 . 
An Act to procedc fur the levy of a tux on the sales of motor spirit in the 

Province of Bombay . 
Whereas it is cxpedient to provide for the levv of a tax on the motor 
spirit in the Province of Bombay ; 

And whercas the Governor of Bombay has assumed to himself under the 
Proclamation dated the 4th November 1939, issued by him under section 93 
of the Government of India Act, 1935 , ( 26 Geo . 5 , Ch . 2 .) all powers vested 
by or under the said Act, in the Provincial Legislature ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the said powers, the Governor of Bombay 
is pleased to make the following tot : 

1 . Short title, cxtent and commencement. - ( 1 ) This Act may be called the 
Bombay Sales of Motor Spirit Taxation Act, 1946 . 

( 2 ) It shall extend tu the whole of the State of Kutch . 

13 ) This section shall come into force at once and the rest of this Act 
shall come into force on such date as the Chief Commissioner of Kutch may , 
by notification in the Official Gazette , appoint. 

2 . In this Act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, 
" Commissioner means the Commissioner of Sales Tax appointed under the 
Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947 (Central Provinces and Berar 
- Act No. XXI of 1947) , as in force in the State of Kutch ; 

( 1 ) " Consumer " means a person who purchases motor spirit for the purpose 
of consumption and not fur rosale ; 

( 2 ) " importer ” meuns a person who carried on the trade of importing 
motor spirit into the State of Kutch ; 

(3 ) " licence " means a licence granted or renewed under this Act ; 

( 4 ) " manufacturer " included a trader preparing any kind of motor spirit 
by admixture of one or more kinds of motor spirits with or without other 
petroleum products or alcohol; 
( 4A ) "motor spirit" means 
( a ) any inflammable hydro - carbon ( including any mixture of hydro 

carbons or any liquid containing hydro - carbons ) which is capable 
of being used for providing reasonably efficient motive power for 

any form of motor vehicle ; and 
( b ) power alcohol, that is , ethyl alcohol of any grade ( including such 

alcohol when denatured or otherwise treated ) , which either by 
itself or in admixture with any such hydro - carbon , is capable of 

being used as aforesaid ; 
but does not include diesel oil or any other form of inflammable hydro - carbon 
material which the Chief Commissioner of Kutch may by notification in the 
Official Gazette specify in this behalf. 

( 5 ) " Prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 


1678 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6 , 1956 


[ PART 1I - SEC . 3 


(6 ) " retail sale " means a sale of motor spirit for the purpose of consumption 
by the person by whom or on whose behalt it is or may be purchased ; 

( 7 ) " retail trader" means a trader who sells motor spirit for the purpose 
of consumption by the person by whom on or whose behalf it is or may be 
purchased ; 

( 8 ) " trader " means a person who carries on the business of buying or sell 
ing motor spirit for the purpose of gain or profit and includes. .. 

( a ) a manufacturer , or 

( b ) an importer , 
who carries on such business , and 
( c ) a broker for commission agent working in connection with such busi 

ness . The words " trade" or " trading" shall be construed accord 

ingly . 
(9 ) " wholesale trader" means a trader whose sales of motor spirit includes 
any sales other than retail sales . 

3 . Levy of tax . — ( 1 ) There shall be levied and collected a tax on the sale 
of motor spirit at such stage between its manufacture or import, as the case 
may be, and its consumption , as may be prescribed : 

Provided that such tax shall not be levied on its sale at more than one such 
stage. 

( 2 ) Subject to the provisions of section 4 , the tax under sub - section ( 1 ) shall be 
levied by Commissioner at prescribed time, in the prescribed manner and at such 
rate or rates as may be prescribed in respect of different kinds of motor spirits not 
exceeding 18 per cent. on the value of sales of such motor spirits . 

( 3 ) If any tax payable under sub - section ( 1 ) is not paid within the prescribed 
time, the Commissioner may in lieu thereof, recover any sum not exceeding 
double the amount of the tax so unpaid or any smaller sum above the amount 
of the tax which the Commissioner may think it reasonable to recover . 

4 . ( 1 ) In cases where accounts are kept and maintained and statements sub 
mitted in the manner and at the period prescribed under section 10 , the tax 
leviable under section 3 shall be assessed by the Commissioner on the value of 
sales as disclosed in such accounts and statements. 

( 2 ) In cases where no such accounts are kept and maintained or where no 
such statements are submitted , or where such account or statements are in the 
opinion of the Commissioner false or incorrect, the Commissioner shall make 
the assessment to the best of his judgement. 

5 . Where motor spirit on the sale of which to a wholesale trader the tax is 
Government levied and collected under section 3 , is exported outside the State 
of Kutch may grant the wholesale trader concerned shall, subject to such condi 
tions as may be in certain prescribed and upon an application made in this 
behalt , be entitled to a refund of cascs . the tax levied and collected in respect 
of such motor spirit 

6 . Trader to take out licence . - ( 1 ) Every trader carrying on business in the 
sale or purchase of motor spirit shall obtain a licence from the Commissioner 
for carrying on such trade . 

( 2 ) Where a trader has more than one shop or place of business whether in 
the same town or village or in different towns or villagcs , he shall obtain a 
separate licence in respect of each shop or place of business . 

( 3 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section , a hawker shall be 
liable to obtain one licence , whatever may be the area of his operation . 

( 4 ) Every trader shall get his licence renewed before the date on which it 
expires. 

(5 ) A certificate of registration granted or renewed under the Central Pro 
vinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947 (Central Provinces and Berar Act, XXI of 
1947 ) as in force in the State of Kutch , shall be deemed to be licence granted 
or renewed under this Act . 

7 . Expiry and renewal of licence . - ( 1 ) Every licence shall be in such form 
and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed and shall expire on the last 
day of the year for which it was granted but may be renewed from year to year. 


PART II SEC. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 8, 1988 


1679 


Provided that in case of any licence given to a manufacturer or importer the 
conditions of such licence may provide that the holder of the licence shall not 
sell motor spirit except to a wholesale trader or a consumer. 

( 2 ) The Commissioner may impose for the grant or renewal of every licence 
such fee not exceeding Rs. 2 as may be prescribed . 

Explanation . — In this section " year" means the financial year. 

8 . No trader to carry on business without licence . — No trader shall carry on 
business in the sale or purchase of motor spirit without holding a licence under 
section 6 . 

9 . Penalty for contravention of section 8 . — Whoever contravenes the provisions 
of section 8 shall , on conviction , be punished with fine which may extend to two 
thousand rupees and in the case of a continuing contravention with an additional 
Ane which may extend to one hundred rupees for every day during which such 
contravention continues after conviction for the first such contravention , 

10 . Traders and other persons to keep accounts and submit statements. - ( 1 
Every trader carrying on business in the sale of motor spirit shall keep and 
maintain accounts in the form prescribed of the value of motor spirit (manu 
factured or imported ) sold or purchased by him and shall submit to the officer 
authorised in this behalf by the Commissioner statements in such form and at 
such period as may be prescribed . 

( 2 ) Every trader required to furnish any statement under sub - section ( 1 ) 
shall, before the date by which such statement is submitted , pay into a Govern 
ment treasury or the State Bank of India on Government account the full amount 
of the tax stated in such statement to be due from under this Act and shall 
furnish along with such statement a receipt from the treasury or Bank , as the 
case may be, showing the payment of such amount of the tax . 


11. Penalty for fallure to keep accounts or submit returns. - If any trader 
liable under section 10 to keep accounts or to submit statements fails , without 
sufficient cause , to keep or submit the same in the manner and at the period 
prescribed or keeps false accounts or submits false statements , he shall on 
conviction , be punished with fine which may extend to Rs. 1, 000 and in the case 
of a continuing failure with an additional fine which may extend to Rs. 50 for 
every day during which such failure continues , after conviction for the first such 
failure . 

12 . Production and inspection of accounts and documents and search of pre 
mises . - ( 1 ) The Commissioner may , for the purposes of this Act, at all reason 
able times 
( a ) require any person , to whom sub - section ( 1 ) of section 6 applies, to 

produce before him accounts, registers or other documents or to 

furnish any other information , or 
(b ) inspect the accounts , registers and other documents and the stocks of 

any motor spirit manufactured , stored or kept in any shop , ware 

house or place of business of any such person , or 
( c ) enter and search any building , vessel, vehicle or place in which he 

has reason to believe that any motor spirit is stored or kept for 

the purpose of sale or manufacture . 
( 2 ) If the Commissioner has reason to suspect that any person is attempting 
to commit an offence punishable under this Act, he may for reasons to be record 
ed in writing seize such accounts, registers or other documents of such persons 
as may be necessary and shall grant a receipt for the same and retain the same 
only fo : so long as may be necessary for examination thereof or for a prosecu 
tion . 

12A . Penalty for fallore to comply with requirements of section 12 or obstruct 
ing oficer , in discharge of duties . — Whoever 
. ( a ) fails to comply with any requirement made of him under sub -section 

( 1 ) of section 12 , or 
( b ) produces false accounts , registers or documents or knowingly furnishes 

false information , or 
( c ) obstructs any officer making an inspection , search or seizure under the 

said section , or 


1680 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 8 , 1986 


PART II Szc, 8 


id ) aids or abets any person in the commission of any act specified in 

clause ( a ) , ( b ) or ( c ) of this section - - shall , on conviction , be 
punished with fine which may extended to two thousand rupees 
and in the case of a continuing contravention with an additional fine 
which may extend to one hundred rupees for every day during 
which such contravention continues after conviction for the first 

such contravention . 
13 . Suspension or cancellation of licence. --- ( 1 ) Subject to such conditions as 
May be prescribed the Commissioner may suspend or cancel a licence given 
under section 
( a ) if any tax payable under section 3 is not duly paid by the holder of 

such licence ; or 
( b ) if there is any breach of any of the conditions subject to which the 

licence is granted ; or 
( c ) if the holder of such licence contravenes any of the provisions of this 

Act or the rules made thereunder . 
( 2 ) If the licence is suspended or cancelled for any reason , the licensee shall 
not be entitled to any compensation for such suspension or cancellation or to the 
refund of any fee paid in respect thereof. 


14 . Power of entry and search . - Any officer specially cmpowered by the Chief 
Commissioner of Kutch in this behalf may enter and search , at any time, by 
day , or by night any building , vessel, vehicle or place in which he has reason to 
believe that motor spirit is kept for the purposes of sale . 

15 . Searches how made. - All searches made under section 14 shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 ( V 
of 1898 ) . 

16 . Power of investigation . - ( 1 ) Every officer not below such rank as may 
be prescribed shall , within the area for which he is appointed , have power to 
investigate all offences punishable under this Act. 

( 2 ) Every such officer shall, in the conduct of such investigation exercise the 
powers conferred by the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 ( V of 1898 ) , upon 
an officer in charge of a police station for the investigation of a cognizable 
offence . 

17. Offences to be ballable . — All offences punishable under this Act shall bo 
bailable , 

18. Power to compound offence. - ( 1 ) The Commissioner may accept from any 
person who has committed an offence punishable under this Act or the rules 
made thereunder by way of composition of such offence, such sum of money as 
the Commissioner may Ax, which shall not exceed 
( i) a sum double the amount of the tax payable under section 3 in respect 

of any sales conducted by such person , or 
( ii ) two thousand rupees , 
whichever is greater. 

( 2 ) On the payment of such sum of money to the Commissioner the accused 
person shall be discharged , and no further proceedings shall be taken against 
such person in respect of such offence . 

19 . Jurisdiction to entry offences . - - No Magistrate , below the rank of a 
Magistrate of the Second Class, shall try an offence under this Act. 

20 . Delegation of power by Commissioner - - Subject to the general or special 
-orders of the Chief Commissioner of Kutch may delegate any of the powers con 
ferred upon him by or unde this Act, a Sales Tax Officer appointed to assist 
him under the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act , 1947 ( Central Pro 
vinces and Berar Act No. XXI of 1947 ) , as in force in the State of Kutch . 

21. Oficers to be public servants . All officers acting under this Act shall be 
deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian 
Penal Code (XLV of 1860 ) . 

22 . Protection of persons acting in good faith and limitation of suits and 
prodocations. - ( 1 ) No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall be ins 
tituted against any officer of the Government for anything which is in good faith 
done or intended to be done under this Act or the rules made thereunder. 


- 


Pure H Sec. 3] 


THE GAZWTTE OP INDIA , OCTOBER 8 , 1958 


1681 


( 2 ) No suit shall be instituted against the State of Kutch and no prosecution 
ar suit shall be instituted against any officer of the Government in respect of 
anything done or intended to be done , under this Act unless the suit or prose 
cution has been instituted within six months from the date of the act complained 
of. 

23. Appeal and revision . — ( 1 ) Within sixty days of the making of any order 
under this Act , other than an order made by the Commissioner any person 
aggrieved by such order may , in the prescribed manner , appeal to the prescribed 
authority against such order . 

( 2 ) Every order passed in appeal under this section shall, subject to the 
powers of revision conferred by sub - section (2A ) and ( 3 ) be final. 

( 2A ) Şubjcct to such rules as may be made in this behalf and for reasons 
to be recorded in writing, the Commissioner may , upon application or of his own 
motion , revise any order passed under this Act or the rules thereunder by a 
person to whom he has delegated any of his powers under Section 20 : 


Provided that , 
( a ) no application under this sub - section shall be entertained if it is not 

made within a period of four months from the date of the order ; 
( b ) before rejecting any application for the revision of any such order the 

Commissioner shall record reasons for such rejection ; and 
( c ) before any order is passed under this sub - section which is likely to 

affect any person adversely , such person shall be given a reasonable 

opportunity of being heard . 
( 3 ) The Chief Commissioner of Kutch may, at any time, call for and examine 
the record of any order of, or the proceedings recorded by , any officer or person 
for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality or propriety of such order 
passed by , or as to the regularity of such procecdings of, such officer or person 
and may pags such order in reference thereto as it thinks fit. 

24 . Power of Government to exempt certain traders from the Act. — The Chief 
Commissioner of Kutch may, by rules made in this behalf, exempt any class of 
traders from all or any of the provisions of this Act . 

25 . Power to make rules. - ( 1 ) The Chief Commissioner of Kutch , may , for 
the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this Act, make rules . 

( 2 ) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing 
provision , the Chief Commissioner of Kutch may make i ules for the following 
matters : 

( a ) the state at which , the rate or rates and the time at which and the 

manner in which the tax shall be levied and collected under section 3 ; 
(b ) the conditions subject to which a wholesale trader shall be cntitled to 

refund under section 5 ; 
(c ) the form and conditions of the licence under section 7 and the fee for 

the grant or renewal thereof. 
( d ) the form of accounts to be maintained , and of statements to be sub 

mitted and the periods at which such statements are to be submitted 

under section 10 ; 
( e ) the conditions subject to which a licence may be suspended or cancelled 

under section 13 ; 
( f ) the rank of officer timpowered to investigate offences to be prescribed 

under section 16 ; 
( fa ) the minner in which , and the authority to which , appeals against any 

order under this Act may be preferred under section 23 ; 
( fb ) the procedure for, and other matters ( including fees) incidental to , 

the disposal of appeals and applications for revision under section 

23 ; 
( g ) the conditions subject to which any class of traders shall be exempted 

from all or any of the provisions of this Act under section 24 . 
( 3 ) Any rule made under this section may provide that any person contraven 
ing any guch rule shall be liable on conviction to be punished with a fine which 
may extend to Rs. 1000 und in the case of a continuing contravention with an 
additional fine which may extend to Rs. 50 for every day during which such 
contravention continues after conviction for the first such contravention , 


1682 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6 , 1966 


( PART II SEC, 3 


( 4 ) Rules made under this section shall be subject to the condition of previous 
publication and shall be published in the Official Gazette . 

26 . Licence fee and other dues to be recoverable as arrears of land revenue . 
All sums payable as taxes , tees or penalties under section 3 or 7 shall be recover 
able as arrears of land revenue. 

[No . 10 (C ) / 58 / J/ II.) 
S. NARAYANSWAMY, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 15th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2225, - Jalalpur ( India ) has been approved by the Government of 
India as a Passport Checkpost , Jalalpur ( India ) - Sankara ( Pakistan ) will hence 
forth be an authorised route for exit from India to Pakistan and for entry into 
India from Pakistan under the India - Pakistan Passport and Visa Scheme, 

[No. F . 66 / 10 / 54 -PSP . ] 

R . S . CHAVAN , Under Secy . 
-- - - - -- 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 25th September, 1956 
S . R . O . 2226 . In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 50 of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 ( 11 of 1934 ) , the Central Government hereby 
appoints the following Auditors, as Auditors of the Reserve Bank of India for 
the year 1956 - 57, namely : — 

1 . M / s . S . B . Billinioria and Co., 113, Mahatma Gandhi Road , Bombay . 
2 . M / s. Sastri and Shah , 15 , Armenian Street, Madras, 
3 . M / s. P . K . Ghosh and Co., 17 , Mangoe Lane, Calcutta . 

[No. F .3 ( 28 ) - F .1/ 56 . ]. 


New Delhi, the 26th September 1956 
S . R . O . 3227. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 38A of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central 
Government hercby appoints with effect from the forenoon of the 9th July , 1938 , 
and until further orders, Shri P . K . Verghese, Advocate , to boa Court Liquidator 
to be attached to the High Court of Travancore - Cochin for the purposes of the 
said section , 

[No. F . 4 ( 151 ) - F .1/ 55 .] 


New Delhi, the 1st October 1958 
S . R . O . 2228 , — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
1 of the Reserve Bank of India ( Amendment) Act , 1956 , ( 38 of 1956 ), the Central 
Government hereby appoints the 6th of October , 1956 , as the date on which the 
said Act shall come into force . 

(No. 3 ( 33 )- F .1 / 56 - 1. ] 


S . R . O . 2229. - In pursuance of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 53 of the Reserve 
Bank of India Act, 1934 ( 2 of 1934 ) , and in partial modification of the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance No. F . 3 ( 15 ) - F . 1 / 48, dated 
the 15th June, 1948 , the Central Government hereby directs that, with effect from 
the 6th October, 1956 , the following footnote appearing in Form B annexed to 
the said notification shall be omitted, namely : - - 
" Ratio of Total of A to Liabilities - 

per cent." 

[No. 3 (33 )- 1.1 /66 .) 
K , P . BISWAS , Under Secy . 


PART IK SEC. ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBMR 6 , 1968 


1683 


en 


(Department of Economie Atairs ) 

INSURANCE 

New Delhi, the 6th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2230 , - - In pursuance of sub - section (6 ) of Section 64F of the Insurance 
Act, 1938, Shri S . R . Kumrai is appointed with effect from 18th September 1956 
Secretary of the Executive Committee of the Life Insurance Council and of the 
Executive Committee of the General Insurance Council in place of Shri G . H . 
Damle , Research Officer , 

[No. 105 - IF (25 ) /54.] 
B . K . KAUL , Jt. Secy . 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 1st October 1956 
AMENDMENTS TO UNION DUTIES OF EXCISE (DISTRIBUTION ) RULES, 1953 

S . R .O . ? 231. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Union 
Duties of Excise (Distribution ) Act, 1953, the Central Goycrnment hereby directs 
that the following amendments shall be made in the Union Duties of Excise ( Dis 
tribution ) Rules, 1953, namely : 

In the said rules 
(1) To rule 2 , the following prov .so shall be aducd , namely : 
" Provided that where the net proceeds for any financial ycar are so certified 

on or after the 1st November, 1956 , any further sum duc or excess 
payment made to an existing State specified in the first column of 

the Table below shall be paid to , or received from , -- 
(a ) the successor State specified opposite to that State in the second column 

thereof, or 
(b ) where two or more successor States are so specified , those successor 

States according to the population ratio notified under clause ( k ) of 
section 2 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 ,” 


Existing State 


Successor State or States 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Bombay . . 

Bombay , Mysorc , Rajasthan . 
Hyderabad , 

Andhra Pradesh , Bombay , Mysore , 
Madhya Bharat 

Madhya Pradesh , Rajasthan . 
Madhya Pradesh 

Bombay , Madhya Pradesh . 
Madras 

Kerola , Madras, Mysore, the Union . 
Mysore . 

Mysore . 
Patiala and Fast Punjab States Union Punjab . 
Punjab . 

Punjab . 
Rajasthan 

Madhya Pradesh , Rajasthan . 
Saurashtra 

Bombay . 
Travancore -Cochin . 

· Kerala , Madras . 


(ii) For rule 4, the following rule shall be substituted , namely : 
" 4 . Amount of instalment.-- Each of the Arst three ingtalments shall be equal 

to one - fourth of the States share of the distributable Union duties of 
excise as shown in the budget estimate for that year ; and the fourth 
instalment shall be equal to the States share of such duties as shown 

in the revised estimate for the year legs the sums already paid : 
Provided that in respect of the financial year 1956 - 57, the four instalments 

shall , respectively , be one- fourth , one- third, one- sixth and One - fourth 
of the States share of such duties as shown in the budget estimate for 
that year,” 

(No, F . 4 (14 ) - B / 56 .) 
SHIV NAUBH SINGH , Dy. Secy , 


* 1684 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6 , 1986 


. [PART II — SEC. 3 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , BOMBAY 

Bombuy , the 11th September , 1956 
S . R . O . 2232 . — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Rule 233 of the 
Central Excise Rules , 1944 , I hereby direct all the manufacturers of " Cotton 
fabrics" who are required to take out a licence under the Central Excise Rules, 
1944 , for such manufacture to indicate on cach clearance application in form 
A . R . 1 the following particulars; — 
( i) In the column provided for " Description of goods " the full description . 

including the distinguishing trade mark or number stamped on the 

cloth , for each individual variety cleared under the inpplication . 
( ii) In the column provided for " Value" the ( -mill price per yard , ex 

clusive of duty, charged by the mill on the invoice to the buyer 
l or each such variety . 

[No. CEI / 233 / 1/56 . ] 
N . L . MEHTA , Collector . 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , DELHI 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, 26th September, 1956 
S . R . O . 2233 - In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule 233 of 
the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , I hereby direct the Textile Mils producing Colton 
Fabrics in Delhi Collectorate to indicate on each clearance application in form 
A . R . 1. the following particulars : — 
( i ) In the column provided for " Description of goods" , the full description , 

including the distinguishing trade mark or number stamped on 
the cloth , for each individual variety cleared under the 

application , 
( ii ) In the column provided for " Value " , the EC -Mill price per yard 

exclusive of duty , charged by the Mill on the invoice to the buyer , 
for each such variety . 

[No. C . VI ( a ) 6 / 12 / 56 / 79001 - 43 .] 

B . B . BARMAN , Collector . 


- 


- - - - 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE ) 

New Delhi, the 26th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2234 . In pu . suance of clause ( b ) of sub -rule ( in ) of rule 2 of the Ap 
pellate Tribunal Rules , 1946 , the Central Government has been plcased to appoint 
Shri H . N . Sinha , Income- lax Officer , as Authorised Representative from the 14th 
August 1956 to appear , plead and act for any Income- tux authority who is a 
party to any proceedings before the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal. 

[No. 113 . ] 
P . N . DAS GUPTA , Dy. Secy . 


CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 29th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2235. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Sex 
Customs Act, 1878 18 of 1878 ) , the Central Government liereby makes the 
following amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Finance ( Revenue Division ) No . 34 - Customs dated the 1st June, 
1956 , namely : - > 
In the said notification , for the words " Deputy Supcrintendent" , the 
words "Head Clark " shall be substituted . 

[No. 80 . 1 
MA. RANGASWAMI, Dy. Secy . 


No. he Govern hereby 19 , the 


PÄRLD BI 


THE GALERIE OF DIDIA , Y 


L 


II i 


ORDER 

STAMPS 

New Delhi, the 25th September 1956 
S .R . O . 2236 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( b ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby directs that the amount of duties payable by the Associated Cement 
Companies ,i Limited , Bombay , in the case of issues of the marketable securities 
specified in the items mentioned below shall be consolidated into the sums shown 
against each , 
( 1 ) Allotment letters bearing serial Rs. 5 ,437 - 8 - 0 ( Rupees five thousand 
Nos , 1 to 29000 (both inclusive ) . four hundred thirty seven and annas 

eight only ) . 
( 2 ) Share certificate bearing serial Rs. 26 ,437 - 8 - 0 ( Rupecs twenty six 

Nos , N1- 1 to N1- 141000 (both thousand four hundred thirty seven 
inclusive ) . 

and annus eight only .) 

[No. 18 . ] 
M . R . RAMACHANDRAN , Under Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 6th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2237. In the notification of the Government of India , Ministry of 
Finance (Department of Revenue ) No. CER - 139 ( 3 ) and 49 ( 2 ) /56, dated the 8th 
September , 1956 , published in the Gazette of India , Part II Section 3 dated the 
15th September , 1956 , for " 9th July , 1956 " , read “ 9th June, 1956 " . 

S. K . BHATTACHARJEE, Dy . Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 27th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2238. - In pursuance of sub - section ( 4 ) of section 5 of the Indian Income 
tax Act , 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ), the Central Board of Revenue directs that the following 
further amendments shall be made in the notification S .R . O . NO, 1884 (No . 57 
Income-tax dated the 20th August , 1956 ] namely : 

In the schedule appended to the said notification under the sub -head " VII -Hy 
derabad " against Kurnool Range after the entry " 4 Cuddapah " the following entry 
shall be added , namely : 
" 5 Salary Circle Kurnool" . 

[No. 88 . ) 

[No. 50 / 75 / 66 -IT .) 
B . V . MUNDKUR , Under Secy . 


CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 29th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2299 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the 
Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes 
the following amendment in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue 
No. 35 -Customs, dated the 1st June, 1956 , namely :-- 
In the said notification , for the words “ Deputy Superintendent" the 
words " Head Clerk " shall be substituted . 

[No. 81. ). 
M . A . RANGASWAMI, Secy . 


1686 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 8 , 1986 


[PART 1 - Src . 8 


ESTATE DUTY 

New Delhi, the 1st October 1956 
S . R . O . 2240. — The following draft of certain amendments which the Central 
Board of Revenue propose to make to the Estate Duty Rules * , 1953, in exercise of 
the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 85 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 
( 34 of 1953), is published as required by the said sub -section for the information of 
all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby given that the said 
draft will be taken into consideration after the 1st November , 1958 . 

2 , Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the said 
Board , 

Draft Amendments 
In the sald rules,~ 

( 1) In rule 31, after the words and dots “ of the . .......... . Co, Ltd ." , the following 
words shall be inserted , namely 

" /Life Insurance Corporation of India " . 
(2 ) In rule 34 , for the word " company" , the word " Ingurer" shall be substituted . 

[No. 43 / F , N . 4 / 20 / 36 -ED . ) 

R . K . DAS , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND CONSUMER INDUSTRIES 

New Dehli , the 26th September . 1956 
S . R . O . 2241. - - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub - clause ( 1 ) of 
clause 3 of the Cotton Control Order , 1955 , I hereby fix the maximum and 
minimum prices at which Indian cotton of the 1956 -57 season may be sold 
or purchased as under : 

1 . Subject to the other provisions hereinafter contained , the minimum and 
the maximum prices of cotton of the descriptions specified in columns ( 1 ) and 
( 2 ) of Schedule A annexed to this notificatlon shall be as specified in columns 
( 3 ) and ( 4 ) respectively of the said Schedule : 

Provided that where cotton , which is the subject matter of a contract, is 
of a quality either inferior or superior to the basic quality referred to in 
columns ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the said Schedule , the minimum or the maximum price 
shall be decreased or increased , as the case may be, by an amount specificd in 
columns ( 5 ) to ( 7 ) of the said schedule . 

Provided further that no such cotton shall be considered to be of a quality 
superior to the basic quality as aforesaid unless its superior staple and class 
have been certified by the East India Cotton Association Ltd ., Bombay , and 
the maximuni price of such cotton shall then be in accordance with the des 
cription , staple and class mentioned in such certificate . 

Provided also that where in relation to any cotton , the buyer or the seller 
does not accept the certificate of the said Association , the decision of any three 
members of the committce specified in Schedule B relating to the description , 
staple or class of the cotton shall be final, and the maximum price of such 
cotton shall be in accordance with such decision . 

2 . ( 1 ) The prices specifled in Schedule A are in Rupees per candy of 784 
Ibs. nett for delivery in full pressed bales ex - seller s godown , Bombay , and 
include 1 / 4 per cent brokerage payable by the seller to the buyer and the 
usual sample and stone allowance. 

( 2 ) Thc minimum and maximum prices for delivery at any place other than 
Bombay shall be the prices specified in Schedule A less a sum equivalent to 
The railway freight from the place of origin to Bombay and Rs. 10 per candy 
plus the sum , if any , equivalent to the railway freight from the place of 
vrigin to the place of dellvery to the buyer and Rs. 10 per candy . 

( 3 ) The maximum prices specified in paragraph 1 and sub - paragraphs ( 1 ) 
and ( 2 ) of paragraph 2 shall be increased , where the sale is directly to a 
manufacturer , by 11 per cent thereof, and where the sale is directly to an A 
Class licensee , by 3 / 4 per cent thereof. 


S .R . O . 558 of 1954. 


PART 11 - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6, 1968 


1687 


( 4 ) The maximum and minimum prices specified in paragraph 1 and sub 
paragraphs ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of paragraph 2 shall be decreased by Rs. 25 per candy 
when the subject matter of the contract is ginned ( that is , unpressed ) 
cotton . 

( 5 ) Where cotton which is the subject matter of a contract is loose cotton 
obtained by opening a full pressed bale and does not exceed 30 lbs. in weight, 
the maximum prices specifled in paragraph 1 and sub - paragraphs ( 1 ) and 
( 2 ) of paragraph 2 shall be increased by 125 per cent thereof , 

( 6 ) The minimum prices fixed under this notification shall not apply to 
cotton which is inferior in class or staple to that for which " off " allowances 
are specified in columns ( 5 ) and (6 ) of Schedule A but it shall be open 
to any person or persons who are required to fix the exact value of any such 
cotton to fix a value which is less than the price specified for the lowest staple 
and class of cotton of the description . 

( 7 ) Nothing in this notification shall apply to a contract of sale for the 
purpose of export by any exporter with an Overseas buyer or his agent or by a 
grower or middleman with an exporter or his agent. 

A certificate from the Textile Commissioner to the effect that the contract 
entered into is for the purposes of export shall be conclusive evidence of that 
fact . 

(8 ) Nothing in this notification shall apply to " Cambodia " " C . 0 .4 " [includ 
ing " 0 . 0 . 4 / B -40" " Madras Cambodia Uganda ( M . C . U .) 1 and 2 " ] otherwise 
known as " Rajapalyam cotton , " Indo - American 170. C .0 .2 and 134 - C . 0 . 2 - M ” , 
if they are of staple length of 1" and over and comply with the following 
conditions : 
( 1 ) The cotton has been grown in an arca which is a " Protected Area " 

under the Cotton Transport Act, 1923 or any corresponding Act ; 
or every grower of the variety concerned has registered himself 
with the Department of Agriculture of the State concerned indi 

cating the area planted ; 
( 11) the seeds required for sowing such cotton in the relevant areas have 

been duly approved and supplied by the Department of Agriculture 

of the State concerned ; and 
( iii ) the ginning and pressing of the crop of such cotton have been 

done under the supervision of the Department of Agriculture of 
the State concerned and a certificate of purity has been issued 

by the said Department for the pressed bales . 
3. ( a ) " Jarilla " means cotton recognised as such and grown in the Nasik , 
Bijapur , East and West Khandesh Texcluding Akkalkuwa and Nawapur 
Talukas ) , Sholapur, Ahmednagar and Poona districts of the Bombay State , 
the States of Madhya Pradesh , Madhya Bharat, Bhopal and Hyderabad ; and 
the Jhalway district of Rajasthan and includes " Verum " , " M . P . Cambodia ” , 
" M . B . Cambodia " , " M . B . Upland" , " Birnar ( 197 - 3 ) " , "Gaorani ( Bani) " , "Malvi" , 
" Bhoj” , "Maljari" and " Pratap " . 

( b ) " H -420 " means cotton recognised as such and grown in the Nimar , 
Akola , Amraoti, Yeotmal, Wardha, Nagpur and Buldana districts of Madhya 
Pradesh and Kurnool district of Andhra State and includes M .5A (Malini) and 
Strain 91 ( Shila ) , provided the urea in which the cotton has been grown has 
been protected under the Cotton Transport Act , 1923 ( Act III of 1923 ) . 

( c ) " Vijay " means cotton recognised as such and grown in the Kalra, 
Baroda , Broach ( Broach , Jambusar, Vagri and Amod talukas ) , Sabar Kanta , 
Ahmedabad ( Daskroi, Dengam and City talukas) and Panch Mahal districts of 
the Bombay State and includes “ Digvijay ” “ B .D . 8” , “ B . 9" and " Degham 1027 " . 

( d ) " Surti” means cotton recognised as such and grown in the Surat 
District, the Ankleshwar, Hansot, Nanded , Jhagadia , Valia , Dedipada and 
Şagbara talukas of the Broach district and the Nawapur and Akkalkuwa talukas 
of the West Khandesh district of the Bombay State ; and includes " Suyog ” , 
" Vijalpa ( 2087 ) " , " Rajpipla " and ( ii ) “ Nawapur 1027 " . 

( e ) " Punjab American L . S . S ." means cotton recognised as such and grown 
in the States of Punjab , Patiala and East Punjab States Union and Uttar Pradesh 
and in the Bikaner division of the State of Rajasthan . 

( f ) " Punjab American 216F " means cotton recognised as such and grown 
in the States of Punjab , Uttar Pradesh , Madras, Ganganagar district of Rajas 
than and the Patiala and East Punjab States Union and includes " Punjab 
American 320F " and " Punjab American H - 14 " , provided the areas in which the 
cottons have been grown have protected under the Cotton Transport Act . 
1923 ( Act III of 1923 ) or any corresponding Act. 


1688 


1688 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , QCTOBER 6 , 1856 


THE GAZETUE OF INDIA,OCTOBER 8,1986 


[Paus Ihsx.3 


[ PART 1 - SEC . 3 


( g ) " Jayadhar " means cotton recognised as such and grown in the Dharwar , 
Belgaum , Bijapur, North and South Satara and Kolhapur districts of Bombay 
State and the Mysore State , provided the areas in which the cotton has been 
grown have been protected under the Cotton Transport Act, 1923 ( Act III of 
1923 ) or any corresponding Act . 

( h ) " Laxmi" mcans cotton recognised as such and grown in the Dharwar, 
Belgaum and Bijapur districts of the Bombay State , the Raichur district of the 
Hyderabad State , the Mysore State and the Andhra State and includes " M . A .5 " 
grown in the Mysore State provided the areas in which the cotton has been 
grown have been protected under the Cotton Transport Act , 1923 ( Act III of 
1923 ) or any corresponding Act . 

( i) "Westerns" means cotton rccognised as such and grown in the Bellary 
district of the Mysore State , and Kurnool ( Pathikonda , Adoni and Alur 
talukas ) , Anantapur and Cuddapah districts of the Andhra State ; and includes 
" 881 - F " , " Umri" , " White Northerns" , " Red Northerns" , " Hagari 1 (Western 
Farm ) " and " Nandyal 14 ” . 


( j) " Cambodia " means cotton recognised as such and grown in the Madras 
State and the Nollore and Chitoor districts of the Andhra State and the 
Tyravancore - Cochin State and includes " Ayanashi” and “ Cambodia C . 0 . 2 " . 
16 , also includes " Cambodia C .0 .4 " ( including " C . 0 .4 / B .40 " , and "Madras 
Cambodia Uganda ( M . Ç . U .) 1 and 2 ” otherwise known as Rajapalayam which 
is not excluded from this notification by sub -paragraph (8 ) of paragraph 2 
above. Further , it includes " Cambodia C .0 . 4 " grown as an irrigated crop in 
the Bombay State and " 170 - C .0 . 2 " and " 134 - C .0 . 2M " grown in the Bombay 
State and Dungarpur district of Rajasthan which are not excluded 
from this notification by sub -paragraph ( 8 ) of paragraph 2 above . 

(k ) " Cambodia C .0 .4 " [ including " C .0.4 / B - 40" , " Madras Cambodia Uganda 
( M . C .U .) 1 and 2 " ] otherwise known as " Rajapalayam " means cotton recognised 
As such and grown in the Travancore -Cochin State , the Madras State and as 
an irrigated crop in the Bombay State . It also includes " Indo American " 
" 170 - C .8 .2 " and " 134 - C . 0 . 2 M " grown in the Bombay State and Dungarpur 
district of Rajasthan . 

( 1) "Karunganni" means cotton recognised as such and grown in the 
Coimbatore, Mathurai, Ramanathapuram , Tirunelveli and Tiruchirapalli 
districts of the Madras State ; and includes " Tinnevelly " , " Salems" ( Nadam , 
Bourbon and Uppam ) " , " Karunganni K . 2 " and Karunganni K .5 . 

( m ) " Dholleras " means cotton recognised as such and grown in the 
Saurashtra and Kutch States and the Banaskantha and Ahmedabad ( Patri and 
Kharaghoda villages of the Viramgam talukas) districts of the Bombay State; 
and includes " Cutch " , " 1027 , " Kadi /Viramgaon " , " Kadayo " " Wagoter " , 
" Wagad " and " Lalio " . It also includes " Kalyan " which does not conform to 
the proviso contained in the definition of such cotton in clause (n ) ( ii ) of this 
paragraph . 
( n ) " Kalyan " means cotton recognised as such and grown . 
( i) in the Ahemedabad ( Dholka, Dhanduka, Samand and Viramgam (ex 

cluding Patri and Khara ghoda villages ) talukas ] and Mehsana 
districts of the Bombay Statę , provided that the areas in which 
the cotton has been grown have been portected under the Cotton 

Transport Act, 1923 ( Act III of 1923) ; 
( II) in the Sauraşhtra State, provided that the seed required for sowing 

has been duly approved and supplied by the Department of 
Agriculture of the said State , and the produce has been certified 

by the sald Department as being " Kalyan " . 
(0 ) " Kalagin ” means cotton recognised as such and grown in the 

Saurashtra State . 
( p ) " Bengal Deshi" means cotton recognised as such and grown in the 
States of Patiala and East Punjab States Union , the Punjab , Uttar Pradesh , 
Bihar, Rajasthan and Ajmer, 

( q ) " Oomra Deshi" means cotton recognised as such and grown in the 
Madhya Pradesh and Hyderabad States and the Sholapur, Ahmednagar and 
Poona districts of the Bombay State . 

( r ) " Mathia " means cotton recognised as such grown in the Saurashtra 
State and the Amerell district of the Bombay State ; and "Mungari" means 
cotton recognised as such and grown in the Bellary district of the Mysore 


Part II - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6 , 1966 


1689 


State, the Anantapur, Kurnool ( excepting Gumbum and Markapur talukas ) 
and Cuddapah districts of the Andhra State and Kharif cotton grown in the 
Raichur and Gulbarga districts of the Hyderabad State . 

( s ) " C . P . I." and " C . P . II" respectively means cotton recognised as such 
and grown in the Madhya Pradesh State and the Adilabad district of the 
Hyderabad State . 

(t) " Central India Cotton " means cotton recognised as such and grown in 
the Madhya Bharat State and Bhopal State . 

( u ) " Buri American " means cotton recognised as such and grown in the 
Nimar , Amravati, Wardha, Nagpur , Chanda and Yeotmal districts of the Madhya 
Pradesh State , the Madhya Bharat State , the Kotah and Udaipur divisions of 
the Rajasthan State and in the State of Ajmer and includes " Buri 107" 
" Indore 1" " Buri 0394 " "Udaipur American " and " Indore 2 " , provided the areas 
in which the cotton has been grown have been protected under the Cotton 
Transport Act, 1923 ( Act III of 1923 ) or any corresponding Act. 

( v ) " Parbhani American " mcans cotton recognised as such and grown in 
the Adilabad , Kinwat, Utnoor and Boath talukas of the Adilabad district of 
the Hyderabad State provided such areas have been protected under the 
Hyderabad Cotton cultivation and Transport Act. 

( w ) "Gaorani 6 and 12 " means cotton recognised as such and grown in the 
Hyderabad Gaorani protected area ( comprising the Nanded , Bidar, Parbhani 
and Osmanabad districts and the Nirmal taluka of the Adilabad district the 
Mominabad taluka of the Bir district ) and the Aurangabad and Gulbagra 
districts of the Hyderabad State ; provided that such areas have been protected 
under the Hyderabad Cotton Cultivation and Transport Act. . It also includes 
Daulat (2204 ) grown in the Parbhani taluka of Hyderabad State . 


SCHEDULE A 


1690 


Description of Cotton 

Season 1956 - 57 


Basic 
Staple 
length 
inches 


Basic Basic " Off" and " On" Allowances for " Off " Allowances " On" Allowances for Staple above Basic 
mini maxi Class other than Basic Class for Staple 

Staple . 
mum mum 

below basic 
price price 

Fully 

Super Extra Staple 
Rs. per Rs. per Good Good Fine Fine Super 
candy candy 

Fine 2 /32" 1 /32" 1/ 32 2/32 " 3/ 32 " 32 " 


( 6 ) 


( 7 ) 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs . 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


495 


Basis 


IS 


20 


565 


IO 


20 


20 


100 
10o 
ICO 


Ess 


IO 


Jarilla . 
Vijay . 

, 
Surti . 
Punjab Amer LSS Rgd . 

Sgd , 
» » 216F Rgd . 
1 » 16F Sgd . 


nnn 


> 


20 
20 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,OCTOBER6,1956 


585 


25/ 32 " 
25/ 32 " 

7 /8 * 
13 / 16 " 
13 / 16 " 
7 /8 " 

7 / 8 " 
13 / 16 " 

7 /8 " 
13 / 16 * 

3 /4 " 


10 

о 


605 
675 


820 
925 
1020 
920 

940 
1045 
1075 

890 
1045 
935 
780 
780 


705 


IS 


Vesteras ,, 


555 


IO 


20 
30 


I20 
I20 
ICO 
I20 
100 


675 
575 


IS 
10 
IO 


25 


20 


20 


20 


viny 


илилhами888,иииииииии,о 


IO 


20 


елилиммиллим лимиимоти 


645 


60 


Cambodia 
Karunganni , 
Dhollerah . 
Kalagin 
Bengal Deshi . 
Oomra Deshi 
Mathia & Muugari . 
C . P . I & II . 
Central India . . 
Buri American . 
Parbhani American 
Gorani 6 & 12 
Kalyan 
Jayadhar 
Laymi 
H - 420 . . 


20 
Basis 


ii.. 


20 


5 / 8 


4 


Ono 


20 
20 


5 /8 " 


O 


20 


Ion 


625 


680 
680 
720 
695 
940 
9 :10 
990 
870 
995 
1045 
870 


Omwa 


20 


JO 
ΙΟ 
JO 


7/ 8 " 


20 
20 


hattttt 


25/32 " 


20 


> 


[PARTII-SEC.3: 


Tv 


5IO 
625 
675 
545 


ano 


V 


4V 


7 /8 " 
25 /32 " 


UT1 


120 


, 


100 


SUV 


PART IISec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6, 1956 


169 


A 


more 


NOTE I. R . G . meens Roller -ginned . 

S. G . means Saw ginned . 
NOTE 2 . In the case of cottons specified below , if they are certified to have been grown in 
areas reserved by the Agricultural Department of the state concerned for the purpose of pro 
curing puro seed for sowing and if the crop has been duly rogued by removing off type plants , 
the basic maximum prices specified in columnn (4 ) above shall be deemed to be increased by the 
amounts shown below , namely : — . 
(1) Jayadhar ! 

. Rs. So per candy over Jayadhar of column ( 1 ) 
(ii) Karunganni k .2 & k ., , , Rs. 50 per candy over Karunganni of column ( I ). 
( ili) Gaorani 6 & 12 Daulat . . Rs. 50 per candy over Gaorani 6 & 12 of column ( 1) 
( iv ) Jarilla 
( v ) Buri 107 
( vi) Malvi 9 & Maljari 

į Rs. 20 per candy over Jarilla of column (1). 
( vii ) Virnar ( 197 - 3 ) 
(vii) P /A216F R .G . 
P / A 320F R . G . 

Rs. 50 per candy over P /A 216F R .G , of column (1) 
P / A H - 14 R . G . 
( ix ) P / A L .S .S . R . G . 

Rs. 50 per candy over p /American LSSRG . of 

column ( 1) 
( x ) Parbhani American 

Rs. 50 per candy over Parbhani American of column ( 1). 
(xi) Buri 0394 

Rs.50 per candy over Buri American of column (I). 
(xii ) Vijalpa (2087) . 

Rs. 50 per candy over Surti of column (I). 
(xili) Laxmi 

Rs. 50 per candy over Laxmi of column (I ) . 
(xiv ) Cambodia C . O .2 . • Rs. 50 per candy over Cambodia of column ( I) 
(xv ) Vijay & Digvijay . 

Rs. 20 per candy over Vljay of column (1) 
(xvi) H -420 ( M .5 .A ) . 
Malini 

Rs. 50 per candy over H - 420 of column (1 ) 
Strain No. 91 
(xvii ) M .A .S . 

Rs.50 per candy over Laxml of column ( 1) . 
( xviii) Kalyan 

Rs. 20 per candy over Kalyan of column ( 1) . 
SCHEDULE B 

Shri Gatulal Rangildas. 
Shri Dwarkadas Jamnadas 

Shri Hansraj Jivandas . 
Shri A . B . Wadia . . . 

Shri Chunilal Pranjivandas . 
Shri Jehangir P . Patel. . . Shri D . N . Mahta . 

[No. 24(18)-CT(A )/ 56-1] 


Shri R . G . Saraiya. 


tant 


! 


New Delhi, the 26th September 1956 
S .R . O . 2242 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Explana 
tion I to sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 3 of the Dhoties (Additional Excise Duty ) 
Act, 1953, the Central Government hereby fixes the permissible quota for the 
quarter ending 30th September 1956 and every subsequent quarter in respect of 
Messrs . Shree Madhusudan Mills , Bombay to be 1, 231,038 (one million two 
hundred thirty - one thousand and thirty eight) yards . 

[No. 8 ( 5 ) -CT ( A ) /56- 9.) 


New Delhi, the 29th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2243. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( i ) of clause 
5 of the Cotton Textiles ( Export Control) Order , 1949, the Central Government 
hereby directs that no producer with a spinning plant shall 
( 1 ) pack in a bale more than two two -part pieces of cloth intended for 

export , or 
( 2 ) pack two-part pieces comprising a quantity exceeding five per cent of 

the total quantity of such cloth in each consignment; 
Provided that such two- part pieces comprising the quantity specified in clause 
( 2 ) above may be packed in a single balę . 
II. This notification shall take effect from 1st October, 1956. 

[No.46 ( 34 ) -CT ( A ) / 52 -34 .] 
V . V . NENE , Under Secy . 


New Della, the 26th September , 1956 


1692 


COFFEE CONTROL 
S. R .O . 24 - The following statement of accounts of the Coffee Board for the period from 18t Aprit 1953 to 31st March 1954 is published in the Gazette 
of India in accordance with Ruh 34 (iv ) of the Coffee Rules, 1955 : 

COFFEE BOARD 
Abstract Statement of Receipts and Expenditure for the period ist April 1953 10 31st March 1954 of General Fund (Including General Fund No. 1 

Account, General Fund (Research ) and General Fund ( Propaganda ) 


RECEIPTS 


EXPENDITURE 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,OCTOBER8,1956 


77 ,673 


I 


Rs. A P . Rs. A P. 
Opening Balance : 

Administration of the Board . . 
General Fund No. I Account 

16 , 60 ,438 7 1 

Measures taken for the cultivation & 
General Fund (Research ) . 

39,093 6 1 

manufacture of coffee in India . 
General Fuod (Propaganda ) 

5 , 37, 349 2 8 

Measures taken for promoting the sale 

22 ,27 , 880 15 10 & increasiag the consumption in 
Monies received under section 11 of the 

18 , 117 0 0 India & elsewhere of Indian coffee : 
Act 

( ) Overseas Propaganda . 
Monies received wider section 12 of the 

(H ) Indian Propaganda (Rs. 113 , 24 , 
Act 

022 - 12 - 1 but receipts of the Dept . 
Fees realised on account of Licences 

10 OO exceed expenditure ) - Please see 
Miscellaneous Receipts . 

Misellaneous receipts under G . F . 
General Fund No. I Account 

15,669 14 6 (Propaganda - Contra ). 
General Fund (Research ) . 

Measures taken for promoting the Ag 
General Fund (Propaganda ) : 

ricultural & Technological Research 
Receipts during the year . , 118 , 08 ,060 00 

in the interest of coffee industry in 
Less expenditure during the year * 113 , 24 ,022 12 1 

India : 
4 ,84,037 3 II Expenditure during the year . 

; .: 
Interest on investments . . . 

58 , 802 12 o Less receipts of the Dept, by sale of 

coffee etc . . . . . . 


2 


:::::::: 


5 , 09 ,774 10 I 
1,97 ,243 92 


(PARTIIS¢C.3 


3 ,12 ,531 OIL 


Miscellaneous . 


, 


, 


. 


Closing Balance 


PANT11-Sec.3] 


General Fund No. I Account : 20 , 72 ,548 8 8 
General Food (Research ) . 

47, 562 5 2 
General Fund (Propaganda ) . . 10 ,21,386 6 7 

31414974 
TOTAL . . 35 ,31;701 6 6 

TOTAL : . 

35 , 31,701 6 6 

- - - - 
* * * This is exclusive of the balances with the High Commissioner for India , London . 
( Sd .) M . P . APPUNESON 

( S .) G .R . SUBRAMANIAN , 10 - 5 - 56 , (Sd .) K . ERINTYASAN , 11- 5 - 56 , 
Secretary , Coffee Board . 

Accounts Officer , Coffee Board . 

Chairman , Coffee Board . 
Verified the above statement of accounts of the Coffee Board Genere ] Fund and certified that ałl the information and explacations required were 
obtained . The statement is correctly prepared in accordance with the books, maintained and information and explanations furnished subject to the remarks 
in the Audit Report separately issued . 
BANGALORE, 

(Sd.) R . K . CHANDREXHARIN , 
The rath May, 1956 

Deputy Accomitant General, 0 . A . D ., 
ASM 

Ofice of the Accolatant General, Mysore, 

Bangalore. 
HIGH COMMISSION OF INDIA , LONDON 
Statement of Receipts and Expenditure on behalf of the Indian Coffee Board for the period 1st April, 1953 to 31st March 1954 . 
RECEIPTS 

EXPENDITURE 


. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,OCTOBER6,1956 


Rs. A . P . 

172 6 3 
19 ,210 5 4 

32 10 8 


Rs. A . 
3 , 333 5 
666 10 


I Balance brought forward from 1952- 53 
2 War damage compensation for display materials, 

etc., lost by enemy action during 1939 - 45 War. 
3 . Sale of ladian Coffee Board Bulletins 


I By subscription to coffee Buyers Association 1952- 53 
2 By subscription to British Commoa wealth . Pros 

ducers organistion 1953 - 54 
By balance of Receipts over expenditure 


4 
8 


15,415 6 3 


Total 


. 


19415 6 3 


. 


19415 6 3 


TOTAL . . . 

(Sd .) A . M . MENON 
Chief Accounting Officer , 

19th October , 1984 


I certify that the above statement of Account bas been carmined and appears to be correct . 

Sd . A . P . APPU MENON , 
Secretary , Coffe Board 


(Sd.) DEPUTY AUDITOR , 
6th November , 1954 . 

No. 1269) Plant (B ) 56.1 | 
A , R CHAKRAVARTI; Under Secy . 


1693 


1694 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6, 1956 


(PART II - Sec 3 


A 


MINISTRY OF HEAVY INDUSTRIES 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 1st October 1956 
S . R . O . 2245 / DDRA / 6 / 1 / Am (4 ) . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
6 of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri Shyam Dhar Misra , M . P ., No. 5 , Gopigunj. 
Banaras and Shri M . A . Samad , M . L . A ., Samad Building, Bhadohi, Banaras ( U . P .) 
to be members of the Development Council established by the Order of the Gov 
eruiment of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S . R . O . 1515 / IDRA / 
8 / 7 , dated the 6th July 1955 , for the scheduled industries engaged in the manu 
facture and production of textiles made of wool, including woollen yarn , hosiery , 
carpets and druggets, and directs that the following amendment shall be made 
in the said Order, namely : - - 
In paragraph 1 of the said Order , against the category of members " being 

persons who in the opinion of the Central Government have special 
knowledge of matters relating to the technical or obter aspects of the 
said scheduled industries" after entry No . 5B relating to Shri N . L . 

Narayan the following entries shall be inserted , namely : 
" 5 C , Shri Shyam Dhar Misra , M . P ., No. 5 , Gopigun ), BANARAS , 
5 D . Shri M . A . Samad, M .L .A ., Samad Buildings, Bhadohi, 
BANARAS ( U . P .) 

[ No . 5 (5 ) IA (G ) /55.] 
R . N . KAPUR , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

New Delhi, the 27th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2246 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Agricul 
tural Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 ( I of 1937 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following rules , the same having been previously 
published as required by the said section , 

1. Short Utle . — ( a ) These rules may be called the Wool Grading and Marking 
Rules, 1956 . 

( b ) They shall apply to wool obtained from sheep in any part of India except 
the State of Jammu and Kashmir and of specified trade descriptions as set out 
in the Schedules I to V . - hereto annexed . 

2 . Grade Designations . The grade designations to indicate the characteristics 
and quality of clipped , ginned , pulled , limed and mixed wool are respectively 
set out in Schedules I to V . 

3 . Definition of quality . - The definition of quality indicated by the grade 
designations is specified in columns 2 to 4 of the Schedule I to V . 

4 . Grade designation mark . The grade designation mark to be applied to 
each bale or package shall consist of a label bearing the design set out in 
Schedule VI, 

5 . Method of marking - - The grade designation mark shall only be applied on 
full or half pressed bales , as the case may be, in a manner approved by the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India . The following 
particulars shall be clearly indicated on the label: 

(1) Serial number ; 
( ii) Grade; 
( Hi) Colour ; 
( lv ) Yield percentage ; 
( v ) Name of place of packing; 
( vi) Date of packing and marking ; 


PART II - SEÇ , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6 , 1956 


1695 


Provided that a packer authorised to grade under the provisions of Agricul 
tural Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act , 1937 ( I of 1937 ) may stamp or write 
his private trade mark on the bale or package, if such private trade mark 
represents the same colour, quality and grade of wool as that indicated by the 
Agmark label and is duly certified by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to 
that effect . 


6 . Method of Packing . – The wool shall be press -packed with covering of new 
gunny cloth in bales with sufficient number of bands tightly placed around the 
bale of customary weights of 200 to 450 lbs, ( 90 . 7 to 204 . 1 kg.) . 


7. Conditions of certificate of authorisation . In addition to the conditions 
specified in rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1937 , the condi 
tions set out in Schedule VI to these rules shall be the conditions of any certifi 
cate of authorisation issued for the purposes of these rules , 

8 . Wool (Grading and Marking ) Rules , 1953, are hereby repeated except as . 
respects things done or omitted to be done. 


SCHEDULE - I 
Grade Designation and definition of quality of Indian Clipped Wool 


Gradc designation 


Colour of 

fibre 


Special characteristics 


General characteristics 


Yield percent 
of wool 


ALL 


C . W . 


. 


. 


. White 


. 


(a ) Over 75 % 
(b) Over 80 % 


All grades shall be free from 

ginned wool, pulled wool , 
limed wool, wool waste , pro 
cesacd wool wagte or any other - 
animal fibre and also from 
burrs, thorns, sticks and other 
extraneous matters except a 
few unavoidables . 


(c) Over 85 % 
(d ) Over 90 % 


C . T . W . 


, 


. 


. 


Tinged 
White 


No wool having yield less than 

what has been prescribed 
column 3 will be allowed to be 
exported , 


C.P.Y. 


Pale 

Yellow 
. . Yellow 


C . Y. 


( aj Over 72 % 

b ) Over 75 % 
( 0) Over 80 % 
( d ) Over 85 % 
(0 ) Over 90 % 


Ditto . 


C . C . 


. 


. 


. Coloured 

Wool 


1 (a ) Over 65 % 

b ) Over 70 % 
(0) Over 75 % 
d Over 80 % 


Ditto . 


Clipped wool shall be marked as " Clipped Wool" on Agmark labels & bales. 


1696 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 8 , 1956 


[ PART 1I - SEC . 3 


SCHEDULE - II 
Grade designation and definition of quality of Indian Ginned wool 


Grade Designation 


Colour of 

fibre 


Special Characteristics 
- 

Yield % of 
ginned wool 


General characteristics 


I 


? 


G . W . , 


· (White ) 


(a) Over 75 % 
(6) Over 80 % 
(c) Over 85 % 


All grades shall be free from 

pulled wool, limed wool, 
wool waste, processed wool, 
waste of any other animal 
Abre and also from burrs , 
thorns , sticks and other extra 
neous matters except a few 
unavoidables. 


(d ) Over 90 % 


G . T .W . . 


. 


. ( Tinged 

White ) 


No wool having yield less than 

what has been prescribed under 
column 3 will be allowed to be 
cxported , 


C .P.Y . 
P . G . Y . 


. 
. 


Pale 
Yellow 
Yellow 


(a ) Ovet 721 % 
(6 ) Over 75 % 


. 


. 


Ditto . 


c) Over 80 % 
a Over 85 % 


G . D .C . . 


. 


. Coloured 

Wool 


le Over 90 % 

(a) Over 65 % 
TO) Over 70 % 

(C ) Over 75 % 
(d ) Over 80 % 


Ditto . 


N .B . - Pulled wool shall be marked as " Pulled Wool" on Agmark labels and bales. 


SCHEDULE - III 
Grade Designation and definition of quality of Indian Pulled wool 


Special characteristics 


Grade Designation 


colour of fibre 


General characteristics 


Yield percent 

of wool 


3 


4 


PLD , W , 


. 


, White 


(a ) Over 75 % 
(6) Over 80 % 
(6) Over 85% 
(d ) Over 90 % 


All grades shall be free from 

gioned wool, limed wool, wool 
waste , processed wool waste 
or any other animal Abre and 
algo from burrs , thorns, sticks 
and other extrancous matters 
except a few unavoidables , 


PLD , T. W . 


. 


Tinned 
White 


No wool having yield less than 

what has been prescribed under 
column 3 will be allowed to be 
exported . 


PART II-- Stc . 3 ] 


THE GAZITTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6 , 1908 


I697 


I 


3 


PLD , P .Y. 


, 


Pale 
Yellow . 


PLD . Y. 


. 


. 


Yellow 


(c ) Over 721 % 
(b) Over 75 % 
(C) Over 800 
di Over 85 , 0 
e) Over 90 
( ix) Over 656 
(1 ) Over 70 % 
(C ) Over 7520 
( ) Over 80 


No wool having yield less than 

what has been prescribed under 
coloumn 3 will be allowed to be 
exported . 


PLD . C . 


. 


. 


Coloured 
Wool 


Ditto . 


N . B . - Pulled wool shall bemarked as " Pulled Wool" on Agmark labels and bales. 


SCHEDULE - IV 
Grade Designation and definition of quality of Indian Limes Wool ( Tannery wool) 

Special characteristics 
Grade Designation Colour of 

- General characteristics 
fibre 

Yield percent 
of wool 


I 


LIM . Y . 


. 


. White 


( ul) Over 75 % 
(6) Over 80 % 
(c) Over 85 % 
(d ) Over 90 % 


All grades shall be frec from 

ginncd wool, pulled wool, wool 
waste , processed wool waste 
or any other animal fibre and 
also from burrs , thorns, stick 
and other extraneous matters 
except a few unavoidabics, 


LIM . T . W . 


Tinged 
White 


No wool having yield less than 

what has been prescribed under 
column 3 will be allowed to be 
exported . 


LIM , P . Y . 


Pale 
Yellow 


Ditto . 


LIM . Y . 


Yellow 


a ) Over 721 % 
(b ) Over 75 % 
c) Over 80 % 
d Over 85 % 
(e) Over 90 % 
(a ) Over 65 % 
o Over 70 % 
(c ) Over 75 % 

Over 80 % 


LIM . C . 


Coloured 


Wool 


Ditto . 


N . B . - Limed wool shall be marked as “ Limed Wool" on Agmark labels and balos . 


SCHEDULE - V 
Grade designation and definition of quality of Indian Mixed Wool 

Special characteristics 
Grade Deisgnation Colour of 

General characteristics 
Abre 

Yield percent 
of wool 


X - W 


, 


. 


White 


(a ) Over 75 % 
(6 ) Over 80 % 
(c) Over 85 % 
(d ) Over 90 % 


All grades shall be free from woo 

waste , Processed wool waste 
and also from burrs , thorns , 
sticks and other extraneous 
matter except a few unavoid 
ables . 


1698 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 8 , 1956 


[ PART II - SEC. 8 


A 


X - T.W . 


, 


Tinged 
White 


No wool having yield less than 

what has been prescribed under 
column 3 will be allowed to be 
exported . 


X - PY . , 


. 


Pale 
Yellow 


Ditto . 


X - Y. 


Yollow 


(a ) Over 721 % 
b ) Over 75 % 
(0) Over 80 % 
(d ) Over 85 % 
(6) Over 90 % 
( a) Over 65 % 
6 ) Over 70 % 

(C ) Over 75 % 
j id ) Over 80 % 


X - C . 


. 


. 


. 


Coloured 
Wool 


Ditto . 


N . B .- - The mixed wool may contain wool of any type i.e . clipped ,, ginncd , pulled or limed , 
In any proportion and shall be marked as Mixed wool on Agmark labels and bales . 


SCHEDULEVI 

( See Rule 4 ) 
The grade designation mark to be applied to bales of wool shall contain the 
following design : - 


SAGMARK V 


DUCA 


भारतकीउत्पत्ति 
இந்தியப் பொருள்கள் 
బారతీయ ఉత్పత్తి , 


TPRO 


DIA 


[No. F .17 - 58 /55 Am .] 
V . S . NIGAM , Under Secy. 


PART IL STK . 3) 


THE GAZETTT OF INDIA , OCTOBER 8 , 1999 


1699 


I.C . A . R . 

New Delhi, the 218t September 1956 
S . R .O . 2247. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 18 of the Indian 
Coconut Committee Act, 1944 (No. X of 1944 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendment in the Indian Central Coconut Committee Rules, 
1945 : -- - 
In the said Rules, for rule 23, the following rule shall be substituted , namely : 

* 23 . CUSTODY AND DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS 
( 1 ) The Committee s money shall be kept within Government account in 

a banking or non - banking Treasury of Government and the current 
balances shall not be kept outside Government balances nor the 
surplus balances invested elsewhere. A Personal Deposit Account 
of the Committee shall be opened within the Government Account 
and all monies at the disposal of the Committee with the exception 

of petty cash shall be paid in that account. 
( 2 ) The monies which immediately before the commencement of this rule 

have been placed in fixed deposits or invested in Government securities 
and the like shall be paid in the Personal Deposit Account as and 
when these investments mature, and no such fresh investments shall 

be made on or after such commencement. 
( 3 ) Payment by or on behalf of the Committee shall be made in cash or 

by cheque against the Personal Deposit Account of the Committee. 
The cheques and all orders for the withdrawal of the deposits or 
investments shall be signed by the Secretary, Indian Central Coconut 
Committee and by the President or the Vice - President or a member 
of the Committee who is specially authorised for the purpose ." 

[ No . 7 -99 /55 - Com .I.] 
New Delhi, the 24th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2248. - In pursuance of the provision of Sub - section ( 1) of Section 4 of 
the Indian Ollseeds Committee Act, 1946 ( IX of 1946 ), the Central Government 
hereby re-nominatcs Shri Laxminivas Ramlal Ganeriwal, Sitarambagh , Hyderabad 
( Dn .) and nominates Shri R . L . Bhadwar , Chief Research Officer , Minor Forest 
Products , Forest Research Institute, Dehradun , as members of the Indian Central 
Ollseeds Committee with effect from the 1st October, 1956 for a period of 18 months 
j. e . upto 31st March , 1958 . 

[No. 6 - 10 / 56- Com .I.) 
MOKAND LALL , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 26th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2249 . - It is hereby notified for general information that in further 
modification of this Ministry s notification No. F . 4 - 1 / 54 -LSG dated the 24th March , 
1954, and in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( e ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Delhi Joint Water and Sewage Board Act, 1926 , (23 of 1926 ) , 
the Central Government have with effect from the 13th August, 1956 nominated 
Shri S . K . Majumdar , Deputy Secretary , Ministry of Finance, as a member of 
the Board in place of Shri O . V . Ramadorai, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of 
Finance ( Delhi State ) who has resigned . 

[No. F . 13 - 119 / 56 -LSG . ] 
A . V . VENKATASUBBAN , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 29th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2280. - Dr. K . K . Chintan Nambiar, F . R .C .S . ( Edin . ), F . R . C . S . (Eng . ) 
has been elected as a member of the Medical Council of India under clause ( c ) 
of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1933 ( 27 of 1933 ) . 

[No . F . 5 -97 / 56 -M .I.) 
A . T . SESHADRI, Under Secy, 


1700 


THE GATHEID OF INDIA , OGTEER 6 , 1948 


[PART HI- SEQ. % 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 

New Delhi, the 27th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2251. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 22 of the Calcutta 
Port Act , 1890 ( Bengal Act III of 1890 ), the Central Government is pleased to 
authorise the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta to raise on the 1st October 
1956 a debenture loan of Rs. 78 lakhs ( seventy eight lakhs ) repayable on the 1st 
October 1986. 

2 . The whole of the loan will be taken up by the Commissioners Reserve 
Funds in accordance with the provisions of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 24 - C of 
the said Act . 

[No. 9 - B -PI ( 39 ) / 56 . ] 
T . S . PARASURAMAN , Dy. Secy. 


( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 27th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2252 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Madras 
Outports Landing and Shipping Fccs Act , 1885 (Madras Act III of 1885 ) and in 
supersession of all previous notifications on the subject, the Central Government 
hereby appoint, with effect from the 1st October 1956 , the Port Administrative 
Officer , Vizagapatam Port to be the officer , to levy , receive and account for all 
fees payable under the Act at the port of Vizagapatam and to carry out the pro 
visions of section 8 of the said Act . 

[No. 17 -PIII ( 2 ) /56 . ) 


S . R . O . 2259. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 7 and 38 of the 
Indian Ports Act , 1908 (XV of 1908 ) and in supersession of all previous notifica 
tions on the subject, the Central Government is pleased to appoint, with effect 
from the 1st October 1956, the Port Administrative Officer, Vizagapatam Port, to 
be the conservator of the port of Vizagapatan and to receive all dues , fees and 
other charges authorised to be taken at the port of Vizagapatam by or under the 
Act and subject to the control of the Central Government to expend the receipts 
on any of the subjects authorised by the said Act, 

[No. 17 -P III ( 2 ) /56.) 
K . BALAKRISHNAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF WORKS , HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

(Central Boilerg Board ) 

New Delhi, the 28th September , 1956 
S . R . O . 2264 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 28 of the 
Indian Boilers Act , 1923 , ( 5 of 1923 ) the Central Boilers Board hereby makes 
the following amendments in the Indian Boiler Regulations, 1950 , the same 
having been previously published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
81 of the said Act , namely : 

In the said Regulations, 

1. In regulation 10 , after clause (b ) , the following clause shall be inserted 
namely : 
" ( c ) When the material is required for flame cutting and/ or welding , 

the carbon content shall not exceed 0 - 30 % and special precautions 

shall be taken when the carbon content exceeds 0 . 26 % . 
When steels are intended for service temperatures over 700°F . the silicon 

content shall be not less than 0 . 10 % alternatlvely , the material shall 
pass the proof test for creep quality of carbon steel plates of boiler 
quality ." 


PART II - Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 8 , 1936 


1701 


She endection 
dard .com 


2 . In regulation 39, the following paragraph shall be inserted at the end , 
namely : 
" The flattening test carried out in accordance with any other standard 

code may be accepted in which case the code adopted shall be 

specified ." 
3 . In regulation 40 , the following paragraph shall be inserted at the end , 
namely : - - 
" The expanding test carricd out in accordance with any other standard 

code may be accepted in which casc the code adopted shall be 

specified ." 
4 . In regulation 44 
(i) in clause (b ) , the following paragraph shall be inserted at the end , 

namely " The flattening test carried out in accordance with any 
other standard code may be accepted in which case the code 

adopted shall be specified" ; 
( ii ) in clause ( c ) , the following parugraph shall be inserted at the end, 

namely , " The expanding test carried out in accordance with any 
other standard code may be accepted in which case the code 

adopted shall be specified ." . 
5 . In clause (d ) of regulation 48, the following paragraph shall be inserted 
at the end , namely : 
" Selection of specimens for testing may be in accordance with any other 

standard code in which case the code adopted shall be specified ." 
6 . In regulation 49 — 
( 1 ) in clausc ( b ) , the following paragraph shall be inserted at end , 

namely , " the flattening test carried out in accordance with any 
other standard code may be accepted in which case the code 

adopted shall be specified ." ; 
( ii ) in clause (c ) , the following paragraph shall be inserted at the end, 

namely , " In lieu of the expanding test, the flaring test carried out 
in accordance with any other standard code may be accepted in 

which case the code adopted shall be specified ." 
7 . In regulation 54 
( i) in clause ( b ) , the following paragraph shall be inserted at the end , 

namely , " The fattening test carried out in accordance with Any 
other standard code may be accepted in which case the code 

adopted shall be specifled ." ; 
( 11) in clause ( c ) , the following paragraph shall be inserted at the end , 

namely , " In lieu of the expanding test , the flaring test carried out 
in accordance with any other standard code may be accepted in 
which case the code adopted shall be specified ." 

[ No. BL - 304 ( 15 ) / 53.]. 
S .R . O . 2255. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 28 of the 
Indian Boilers Act , 1923 ( 5 of 1923 ) , the Central Boilers Board hereby makes 
the following amendments in the Indian Boiler Regulations, 1950 , the same 
having been previously published as required by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
31 of the said Act, namely : - - 

In the said regulations --- 

( 1) For the heading " Regulations for Registration and Inspection of Econo 
misers" above regulation 524 the following shall be substituted , namely : 

" Regulations for Registration and Inspection of Economisers and Feed 


pipes" . 


( 2 ) For regulation 529 the following shall be sustituted , namely : 
529 ( a ) Registration _ Books. Registration Books shall be maintained on 

the lines of Regulation 387 
(b ) Transfer of Memorandum of Inspection Book and Registration . 
Books: - On an economiser passing from one State to another, the 

Memorandum of Inspection and Registration Books shall, on the 
request of the Chief Inspector of the State to which the econo 
miscr has been transferred , be forwarded to that Oncer who 
shall take over their custody and maintain them as prescribed . 


1702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6 , 1958 


[ Part II — Sec. 3 


(3 ) After regulation 534 , the following regulations shall be inserted , 
namely : - 
535 ( a ) Inspection of Feed Pipes . Feed pipes shall be inspected and 

hydraulically tested before erection in place, and the hydraulic 
test pressure shall be not less than twice the working pressure of 
the economiser . A certificate from the recognised maker or Inspect 
ing Authority that this has been done may be accepted . If the 
Inspector is satisfied with the test, the pipes may be erected . No 
Separate certificate for feed pipes shall be issued , nor shall a 

separate fee be charged for their inspection . 
( b ) At subsequent inspection or at any other time, the Inspector may 

make an external inspection of feed pipes and if found in an un 
satisfactory condition , he shall report the matter to the Chief 

Inspector who may require the pipes to be hydraulically tested . 
536 . Submission of plans of feed pipes . — Plans of feed pipes shall be 

submitted to the Chief Inspector before erection , for his decision 
whether the pipes and their arrangement comply with the 
Regulations. 

[ No. BL -304 (19 ) /54 ]. 

M . N . KALE , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

New Delhi, the 28th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2258 . - In pursuance of sub - rule (8 ) of rule 430 of the Indian Telegraph 
Rules , 1951 and in supersession of the provisions of this Ministry s notification 
dated the 11th August , 1956 published as S . R . O . No. 1834 , the Central Govern 
ment hereby specifies the 16th day of October , 1956 as the date on which the 
message rate system will be introduced at Jodhpur Telephone Exchange . 

[ No. PHB 165 - 1 / 55 .1 
V . M . BHIDE , Dy. Secy , 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 26th September 1956 
8 . R . O . 2257. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints the officer for the time 
being holding the post of Tehsildar Rehabilitation in the Rehabilitation Depart 
ment of the State of Patiala and East Punjab States Union , to the post of a 
Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing within the said State the functions 
assigned to the Settlement Officer by or under the said Act. 

[No. 1 ( 7) ( 11) /56 - SIȚI- I). ] 
New Delhi, the 27th September 1956 
S .R . O . 2258.-- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S . V . Badlani as 
Assistant Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge 
of his post. 

[No. 7 / 26 /58 - SII ( Pt. II ). ] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 20th September 1956 
$ .R . O . 2259.. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1934 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the officer specified 


PART 1I - SEC. 3 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6 , 1958 


1703 


in column 1 of the Schedule below who has been appointed under the said 
sub - section to the post specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of that 
Schedule shall perform the functions assigned to him by or under the said Act 
only in respect of agricultural lands , situated in the State of Patiala and East 
Punjab States Union in any rural area as defined in clause ( 1 ) of rule 2 of the 
Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules , 1955 , including 
houses , it any, in any such area allotted alongwith such lands. 


SCHEDULE 


Column 1. 
Name of Officer 


Column 2 . 
Appointment made . 


Oficer for the time being holding the post of Tehsilder 
Rehabilitation in the Rehabilitation Department of the 
Government of the State of Patiala and East Punjab 
States Union , 


Settlement Officer in the State 
of Patiala and East Punjab 
States Union 


[No. 1 ( 1) ( 11 ) / 56 - SIII - II ). ] 

H . S . NAIR , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 22nd September 1956 
S . R .O . 2260 . — In exercise o fthe powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following amendment in the 
Labour Officers (Central Pool) Recruitment and conditions of Service Rules, 1951, 
namely : 

In the said Rules for rule 5A the following rule shall be substituted, namely : 
" 5A . Disqualifications for appointment 
( i) No person who has more than one wife living shall be eligible for 

appointment as Labour Officer in the Central Pool ; 
(ii) No female candidate who has married a person having already a wife 

liying shall be eligible for appointment to the post of Labour Officer 

in the Central Pool. 
Provided that the Government of India may , if satisfied that there are special 
grounds for doing so , except any person male or female from the operation of 
this rule ." 

[No. 3 /LWI( II ) - 4 ( 1 ) / 56 .] 


New Delhi, the 1st October 1956 
S . R . O . 2261, - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of Article 258 
of the Constitution , the President hereby entrusts to the Government of Saurashtra , 
with their consent, the functions of the Central Government under sub - section 
( 1 ) of Section 20 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( II of 1948 ) . 

[LWI-I-2 (3) 1956.] 
P . N . SHARMA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 26th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2262. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the 
employers and the majority of the employees in relation to each of the factories 
of ( 1 ) Messrs . V . A . P Corporation ( Private ) Limited , 208, Ghodbunder Road , 
Santacruz West, Bombay 23 , ( 2 ) Messrs. Narayan Silk Mills Limited , 34, Nesbit 
Road , Mazgaon , Bombay - 10 , ( 3 ) Messrs. Rainbow Ink and Varnish Manufactur 
ing Co. ( Private ) Ltd ., 133 , Vakola Santacruz, Bombay , and ( 4 ) Messrs. National 
Air Co . Private Ltd ., Arch No. 11, Below Mahalaxmi Bridge Jacob Circle, 
Bombay - 11, have agrecd that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) should be made applicable to such factory. 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central 


1704 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6, 1956 


[PART II — SEC. 3 


Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the said 
factories . 

2. This notification shall be deemed to have come into focre on the 1st day 
of July, 1956 . 

[No. PF .57 ( 11 ) /50 / 1. ] 


S . R . O . 2268. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the 
Employers and the majority of the employees in relation to each of the factories 
of ( 1 ) Messrs. Jai- Hind Rubber Products Private Ltd ., 391 - F , Grant Road, Bombay 
1 and ( 2 ) Messrs. Tayabi Bucket Factory , 174 - 178, Ripon Road , Cross Lane, 
Bombay - 8 , have agrecd that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) should be made applicable to such factory . 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the 
Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the said 
factories. 

2. This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day 
of August, 1956 . 

[No. PF .57 ( 11 ) / 56 / II, ] 


S .R .O . 2264 . Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the 
employers and the majority of the employees in relation to the factory of 
Messrs Hindustan Laco Manufacturing Corporation Ltd ., Hide Road , Kidderpore , 
Calcutta , have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) should be made applicable to such factory . 

Now , thereforc , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the said factory . 

[No. PF .57 ( 11) / 56 / III. ] 


New Delhi, the 27th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2265 . - Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that Shri B . P . Jha 
has ceased to represent the interest on whose behalf he was nominated as a 
trustee under the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme published with the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. PF . 15 (5 ) / 48 , 
dated the 11th December , 1948 . 

Now , therefore, in cxercise of the powers conferred by paragraph 7 of the 
said Scheme, the Central Government hereby removes the said Shri B . P . Jha 
from the office of a trustee under the said Scheme. 

[No. PF , 4 ( 26 ) /56.) 
New Delhi, the 28th September 1956 
S .R . O . 2266 . - In pursuance of paragrah 3 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund 
Scheme published with the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour No . PF . 15 ( 5 ) / 48 dated the 11th December 1948, the Central 
Government hercby nominates Shri Ram Narain Sharma, M , L . A ., P . O . Jharia , 
District Manbhum , to the Board of Trustees and makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour No. 2227, dated the 5th October 1955, namely : -- 

In the said notification , for the entry " ( 14 ) Shri B . P . Jha , General Secretary , 
Colliery Mazdoor Congress , Bengal Hotel, Asansol ( Burdwan ) " the entry " ( 14 ) 
Shri Ram Narain Sharma, M . L . A ., P . O . Jharia , District Manbhum " shall be 
substituted . 

[ No. PF . 4 ( 26 ) / 56 .] 


New Delhi, the 29th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2267. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Coal Mines 
Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act , 1948 (40 of 1948 ), the Central Govern 
ment herehy mabes the following amendments in the Hyderabad Coal Mines 
Provident Fund Scheme published with the Notification of the Government of 


PART II — Stc. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6, 1956 1705 
= = = - -- - 
India in the Ministry of Labour No. PF,23 (5 ) / II / 52 , dated the 12th March , 1958 , 
namely : 

In paragraph 41 of the said Schemce 

(a ) at the end of clause (a ) of sub -paragraph ( 1) the word " or” shall be 
inserted ; 

(b ) the proviso to clause ( a ) of sub - paragraph (1 ) shall be omitted ; 
(c) the second proviso to sub - paragraph (2 ) shall be omitted ; 

( d ) after sub - paragraph 2, the following sub - paragraph shall be inserted 
namely : 

" (2A ) When a member withdraws any amount under sub -paragraph ( 2 ), the 
following provisions shall apply , namely : - - 
(1) seventy - fivo per cent of the employcr s contribution and interest thereon 

shall be forfeited to the Fund if the period of his membership of 

the Fund is less than 3 years ; or 
(il) Afty per cent. of the employer s contribution and interest thereon shall 

be forfeited to the Fund if the period of membership is 3 years or 

more but less than 5 years ; or 
( ili) twenty - five per cent of the employer s contribution and interest thereon 

shall be forfeited to the Fund it the period of membership is 5 years 

or morę but less than 10 years ; or 
(iv ) fifteen per cent of the employer s contribution and interest thereon 

shall be forfeited to the Fund if the period of membership is 10 years 

or more but less than 15 years ; or 
(v ) no forfeiture shall be made if the period of membership is 15 years of 
more ; " . 

[ No. PF . 2 ( 102) /56.) 
New Delhi, the 1st October 1956 
S . R . O . 2268 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
13 of the Employees provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) and in supersession 
of the Notifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. 
S . R . O . 1900 dated the 30th August, 1955 , the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri M . Malleshayya, Commissioner of Labour, Mysore, to be an Inspector for 
the whole of the State of Mysore for the purpose of the said Act, and of any 
Scheme made hereunder , in relation to factories within that State engaged in a 
controlled industry or in an industry connected with a mine or an oilfield . 

i [No. PF .31 ( 245 ) / 56 .] 
R . C . SAKSENA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 1st October 1956 
S .R . O . 2269. - In pursuance of section 4 of the Employees State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948 ), the Central Government hereby 

( a ) notifies that Shri Malleshayya , M . A ., LL . B ., Commissioner of Labour in 
Mysore , Bangalore , has been nominated by the Government of Mysore as a 
member of the Employees State Insurance Corporation in place of Shri Kantharaj 
Urs, B . A ., and 

(b ) makes the following further amendment in the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour No , S .R .O . 2155 dated the 16th November , 
1953, namely : - - 

for entry 19 , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" 19 . Shri M . Malleshayya, M . A ., LL . B ., Commissioner of Labour , in 
Mysore , Bangalore." 

[No. F .H . I. 1 (31) / 50 .] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 26th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2270 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Emplo 
yees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 


1706 


1706 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 6, 1969 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6 , 1956 


[Pare U-Sec.3 


[ PART [I - Sec. 3 


exempts, for a further period of one year with effect from the 1st October 1956, 
from the payment of the employer s special contribution under Chapter V - A of 
the said Act, every factory 
( a ) which is exclusively engaged in one or more of the manufacturing 

processes specified in column 1 of the Table annexed hereto or 
any other manufacturing process which is incidental to or con 
nected with any of the aforesaid processes or in any other manu 
facturing process carried on in a seasonal factory of the nature 
referred to in clause ( 12 ) of section 2 of the said Act; and 


(b ) which is situated in any area specified in the corresponding entry 

in column 2 of the said Table, subject to the condition , if any, 
specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the said 
Table . 


TABLE 


Area where situated 


Conditions 


Name of the Manufacturing 

proccas 


Do . 


Do. 


I. Redrying un-manufactured Whole of India except the 
leaf tobacco . 

State of Jammu and 

Kashmir . 
2 . Rice milling 

Do. 
3 , Cold storage . 

Do. 
4 . Salt manufacture 
S . Oil mills 

Provided that the process of oil 

milling is subsidiary to any 
other manufacturing process 
which is seasonal and so long 
as the number of employces 
engaged in oil milling is Iceo 

than fifty , 
6 . Ice manufacture 

. The States of Punjab , Delhi, 

Ajmer , Uttar Pradesh , 
Vindhya Pradesh , 
Madhya Pradesh , 
Madhya Bharat, Bhopal, 
Hyderabad , Bihar, 
Rajasthan , and PEPŠU . 


[No. HI- 6 ( 109) 756 . ] 
B . R . KHANNA, Under Secy. 


ORDER 
New Delhi, the 29th September 1956 


S . R . O . 2271. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Emplo 
yees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
exempts , for a further period of six months with effect from the 1st October . 
1956, from the payment of the employer s special contribution under Chapter 
V - A of the said Act, every factory 


( a ) which is exclusively engaged in the manufacturing process specified in 
column 1 of the Table annexed hereto or in any other manufacturing process which 
Is Incidental to or connected with the aforesaid process ; and 


(b ) which is situated in any area specified in the corresponding entry in column 
2 of the said Table . 


PART II. Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 6 , 1956 


1707 


TABLE 


Name of the manufacturing procegs, 


Cashew processing 


Whole of India except the 
State of Jammu and Kashmir . 


[NO. HI-6 ( 109 ) / 58 . 1 
K , N . NAMBIAR , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

ORDER 
New Delhi- 2 , the 26th September, 1956 . 
S . R .O . 2272 . - The Central Government hereby : 
( a ) directs , in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Govern 

ment of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No . S . R . O . 3805 , dated the 26th December , 1955 and in modification 
of the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Informa 
tion and Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 1283 , dated the 29th May , 1966 , 
that the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at 
Bombay shall consist of 35 members with effect from the 29th 

September , 1956 . 
( b ) appoints , after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors 

the following persons as members of the Advisory Panel at Bombay 

with effect from the 29th September , 1956 : -- 
1 . Shrimati Sudha Vasudeo Bhandarkar ; 
2 . Shri T . V . Ramanujam ; 
3 . Shrimati Shanta J . Shelke; and 
4 . Shrimati Dr. Usha Mehta . 

[ No. 14 /2 /56-FC .] 

S . GOPALAN , 
Special Officer , Press and Films. 

ORDER 

New Delhi- 2 , the 27th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2273 .- In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the pro 
visions of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the order of 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 
945 dated the 28th April, 1955 the Central Government with previous approval 
of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifies films specified in column 
2 of the schedule hereto annexed , in all their language versions to be of the 
description specified against each in the corresponding entry of cloumn 5 of the 
said schedule . 


Si, No. 


Title of 
the film 


Name of the 
Producer 


Source of 
supply 


Whether scientific film or & Alm 
Intended for educational purposes or 
film dealing with news and current 
events or a documentary film . 


Film dealing with news and current 

events . 


Indian News Govt. of India , 
Review No . films Division 
410 . 

Bombay. 
Basis of Dr. P . V . Pathy 
Progress , for Govt , of 

India , Films 
Division 
Bombay. 


Govt. of 
India , Films 
Division 
Bombay . 

Do 


Documentary film . 


[ No. 14 / 2 /56 -FD .App 103 . ) 
B , S , DASARATHY , Dy . Secy, 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1958 


