WISTERED No. D. 225 


DOO 


The Gazelle 


pf India 


+96467 


$ 61 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


! 


Jo . 1 NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , JULY 3, 1954 


NOTICE 


... normentions Gazettes of India Extraordipary were published upto the 26th June, 


No. an date 


Issued by 


Subject 


10 . 2017 , dated the 21st Delimittion Com - 
ane 1954. 

missios, India . 


Proposals in respect of distri 
bution of seats allotted to the 
State of Assam in the House 
of the People and the seats 
assigned to the Legislative 
Assembly of that State . 


ISO) . 2018 dated the 22nd Mirstry of Food Schedule of Tariff values for 
dne Iglyk? 

an Agriculture . 1954 - 55 . 
5 . 5 . 2093, dated the 23rd | Miistry of Law | Amendment made in the Noti 
une 1954 . 

fication No. S . R . O . 215 , dated 
the 9th February 1952 , relat 
ing to the execution of con 
tracts and assurances of pro 

perty . 
2 . 2094 , dated the 24th Ministry of Food | Amendments made in the Noti 
me 1954 . 

and Agriculture . fication No . S . R . O . 468 , dated 

the 6th February 1954 , in the 
Wheat (Manufacture of Fines ) 

(Prohibition ) Order , 1954. 
. 7 . 2095, dated the 2 Ditto 

Amendmentmade in the Coarse 
e 1954 . 

Grains (Removal of Control) 
Order , 1954 


wo 


2096 , dated the5th 
1954. 


Election Commis . 
sion , India . 


** 


To fill a vacancy in the Ajmer 
Legislative Assembly from 
Gagwana constituency . 


J. 2097, dated of 25th 


Ditto 


Appointment of date with res 

peci to by - election in the Gag 
wana constituency . 


11 2 1954 . 


to ind 


1014 


THE GALETTE O . INDIA JUL . 3, 1954 


LA 11 


PART II -- Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Governancy 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) anl Central Authorit 
(other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 26th June 1954 
S . R . O . 2102. In exercise of the powers conferred by clase ( 1 ) of article 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the follwing further am 
ment shall be made in the notification of the Government ofIndia ir the Mir 
of Law , No. S . R . O . 215 , dated the 9th February , 1952, relaing to he exi 
of contracts and assurances of property , namely : 
In para . 1 of the said notification , after the words " motor car?" the per 
" and motor cycles" shall be inserted . 

[ No. F. 2 -a i 
B . I. LOKUZ, Jt. . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


New Delhi, the 24th June 1954 
S . R . O . 2103 In exercise of the powes conferred by section 27 of nę I 
Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878 ) , the Centra Government hereby exemptsone 
pany Sher Battalion Nepalese Army shirtly proceeding from Kathmand 
Kupaidia via Raxaul from all prohibition and directions contained irthe 
Act in respect of: 
Rifles : 303 number 98 , ammunition 639 ; LMG 3 ; Magazinc LMG C 

2 ; ammunition pistol RDS 18 , ery light pistol 1 , lanmunio 

9 ; and 
another company under the command of Lt. Golonel Chhetra Bahadur Tipa 
Rupaidia to Kathmandu via Raxaul in respec of: - 
Rifles 303 number 80 , ammunition RI 400, LMG 6 , ammunil 

RDS 1189 , sten guns 9 , Sten gun ammunition RDS 1577 , 916 
ammunition pistol RDS 84 , Very light pistol 1, ammunitor 


69 . 


[No. 9 /37 / 54Pciou 


S . R . O . 2104 .- In exercise of the powers confeled by section 27 of the in 
Arms Act, 1878 ( XI of 1878 ) , the Central Goveament hereby directs t1 
following further amendment shall be made in he Indian Arms Rule * 
namely : 


In the Table in Schedule II to the said Rul , in the entries agair 

3 , in item ( iv ) under column 2 , the brds " In Punjab ” , sk 
omitted . 

[No. 9 / 50 / 53-Poliq 

N . SAHGAL, D : 


ORDER 
nyo . 19 21 T 


10 . 


PART II Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


1675 


affairs of the State of Andhra, as allotted officers or as transferred officers, as 
stated in the corresponding entries in column ( 3 ) of the said Schedule . 


SCHEDULE 


Name 


Official Designation 


Allotted Officer or 
Transferred Officer 


Madras Medical Department 


I. Sri athi K . C . Thilakam 
2 . Sr .thi B . R . Jayaraju 


. . 
. 


. 


Do . 


3 . Kum .r * V . Ravanna . 
4 . KL. 1 Y . H . Victoria 


Government Hospital, Vijayawada Allotted Officer. 
. Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for 

Do . 
Women and Children , Madras. 
. Government Headquarters Hos 

pital, Anantapur . 
King George Hospital , Visakha 
patnam . 
Do. 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do . 


Do. 


5 . Srimathi D . S . Kamalam 
6 . Srimathi S . M . Teek . 
7 . Kumari P . Gowri 
8 . Sri N . Sreenivasalu 


Do. 


DO . 


Sri S . R . A . Gesudraz 


. 


. 


Madras Industries Department 
. Head of Automobile Engineer - Allotted Office . 

ing Section , Tamilnad Poly 

technic , Madurai. 
. Typist , Government Textile Allotted Oficer. 

Institute , Madras. 


3rimat” i M . Padamavathi 


. 


Do. 


Madras Public Health Department 
Sri R . Raju 

. . . Van Driver under the District Allotted Officer . 

Health Officer , Tiruchirapalli . 

Madras Agriculture Department 
I. Sri A . Appa Rao . . . Upper Subordinate on leave . Allotted Officer 
2 . Sri G . Raja Rao · Upper Subordinate on other duty 

Do. 
3 . Sri GA L . Narasimha Rao Upper Subordinate ( under 

Do . 

suspension ). 
4 . Sri A . Venkata Rao . 

Do. 

Do. 
5 . Sri A . V . Ramachandra Rao 

Do. 
5 . Sri K . Srinivasa Rao . 

Do. 

Do. 
Sri U . Srimannarayana 

Do . 

Do. 
8 . Sri K . V . Ramalingaswamy 

Agricultural Engineering Super Do. 

visor . 
3 . Sri G . Dastagiri 

Junior Tractor Driver 
10 . Sri C . K . Sivanayam 

• Tractor Foreman . , . Transferred Officer . 
II. Sri R . D . Balaraman . • Junior Tractor Driver . . 

Do. 
12 . Sri S . Santhanam 

Do. 

Do . 
13 . Sri S . Amavasai . 

Do . 
14 . Sri V . Narayanan Nair 

Senior Tractor Driver 
15. Sri T . Vadivelu 

Tractor Cleaner . . . 
16 . Sri A . S . Munuswamy 

Do . 
17 . Sri T . Rangasamy . 

Senior Tractor Driver 
18 . Sri J . Samuel : 

Lorry Driver 
19 . Sri Thomas Paul 

Junior Tractor Driver 
26 . Sri K . Madhavan Nair 

Do. 
21, Sri T . Gopalakrishnan Nair 

Do. 
22 . Sri F . S . Lourdyswami 
23 . Sri 1 . A . Arbutham . 

Do . 

Do. 
24 . Sri K . R . Balan Nair . 

Tractor Cleaner . . 
25. Şri C . Manikayam . . 

Do. 

Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


[ No . 26 / 4 /53- IS ( I) . ] 
N . N . CHATTERJEE, Dy. Secy . 


1676 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3 , 1954 


[PART 1I - SEC . 3 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

Nerv Delhi, the gıh June 1954 
S . R . O . 2106 - In pursuance of sub -section ( 1 ) of scclion 5 of the Public Debt Act , 1944 (XVIII 
of 1944 ), the Central Government hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made ir 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance No. D . 2223 - B - II /SI, 
dated the 3181 March 1951, namely - 

In the said notification under the heading ‘ A - PUBLIC OFFICES OF THE CENTRAL 
AND STATE GOVERNMENTS IN INDIA : 
(1) For the public offices specified under column ( I ) of the Table below , the public offices 

spccified in the corresponding entry under column (2 ) of the said Tablc shall be 
substituted , namely : 

TABLE 


Accountant General, High Court, Bombay 

Accounts Officer , High Court , Bombay . 
Assistant Salt Controller of India 

Assistant Salt Commissioner , 
Chief Accountant, Andlıra Power System , Madras Accounts Officers, and Chief Accountants 

of the Electricity Department, Madras . 
Chief Accounts Officer of Excise , Bombay . . Chief Accounts Officer of Prohibition and 

Excise , Bombay . 
Controller of Accounts, Air Forces , Dehra Dun , Controller of Defence Accounts ( At 

Forces ), 
Controller of Army Factory Accounts, Calcutta · Controller of Defence Accounts (Facto 

ries ). 
Controllers of Military Accounts 

Controllers of Defence Accounts. 
Controller of Naval Accounts , Bombay , Controller of Defence Accounts (Navy ) . 
Court of Wards in Uttar Pradesh 

Secretary , Court of Wards in Witar 

Pradesh . 
Deputy Salt Controller of India 

Deputy Salt Commissioner. 
Director of Civil Supplies (Accounts), Civil Financial Adviser and Additional Secretary 
Supplies Department, Bombay . 

to the Government of Bombay , Civil 

Supplies Department , Bombay , 
Director of Industries and Commerce, Uttar Director of Coitage Industries, Uttar 
Pradesh , 

Pradesh . 
Director of Public Health , Uttar Pradesh . . Director of Medical and Health Services, 

Uttar Pradesh , 
Divisional Engineer, Madrus Highways De- Divisional Engineers , Madras Highways 
partment . 

Department. 
Joint Director of Technical Education , Bombay , Director of Technical Education , Bombay. c 
Junior Controller ofMilitary Accounts, Patna Joint Controller of Defence Accounts , Pati ! 
Master , Security Printing , India . , , Master , India Security Press. 
Military Accountant General . 

. Controller General of Defence Accounts. 
Military Secretary to H . E . the Governor, Uttar Secretary to the Governor , Uttar Pradesh . 

Pradesh , 
Presidency Port Officer, Madrus 

. Principal Port OfTicer , Madras. 
Salt Controller of India , . 

. Salt Commissioner . 
(ii) The public offices specified under column (1) shall be inserted respectively affter the 

public ollices specifcd under column ( 2 ) 
Administrative Commandant , Gwalior . . Additional District Magistiatry, Bihar. 
Charge d Affaires for India at Baghdad . Charity Commissioner, Bombay , 
Chict Director of Purchase , Ministry of Food and Chief Controller of Telegraphs Stores . 

Agriculture . 
Chief Engineer , Public Health Enginecring , West Chief Enginecrs, Orissa . 

Bengal. 
Chief Agricultural Engineer, Uttar Pradesh 

Chlef Engineers, Southern , Eastern and 

Western Command . 
Chief Inspectress for Secondary Education , West Chief Inspector of Military Explosives . 

Bengul. 
Chief Inspector for Women s Education , West Chief Inspector of Military Explosives. 

Bengal. 
Civil and Sessions Judges, Uttar Pradesh . . Civil Surgeons, Madhya Pradesh . 


. 


. 


. 


(2 ) 


Commandant, Industrial Arca Reserve Force, West Commandant, E , M . E . School. 

Bengal. 
Excise Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh , . Examiner of Local Fund Accounts, Madras 
Labour Commissioner , Uttar Pradesh - Junior Controller of Military Accounts , 

Patna. 
Conservators of Forests , Uttar Pradesh , . Conservators of Forests , Saurashtra . 
Controller of Stores , Punjab . 

Controller of Salt Revenue, Madras. 
Custodian of Evacuee Property and Rehabilitation Custodian of Evacuec Property , Bombay . 

Commissioner, Ajmer. 
Deputy Commissioner, Ajmer . . . . Deputy Chief Accounts Officer, Assam 

Railway . 
Deputy Directors of Education , Uttar Pradesh Deputy Custodian of Evacuee Property, 

Bombay . 
Deputy Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Deputy Directors of Education , Bihar, 

Officer, Chittaranjan Locomotive Works, 
Deputy Registrar, High Court of Judicature at Deputy Inspectors General of Police . 

Allahabad (Lucknow Bench ). 
Director General, Supplies and Disposals , . Director General Ordnance Factories . 
Director General of Transportation West Bengal , Director General of Posts and Telegraphs . 
Director of Animal Husbandry , Uttar Pradesh , Director of Agriculture , Hyderabad . 
Director of Colonisation , Uttar Pradesh 

Director of Artillery . 
Director of Education , Bombay State 

Director of Education Ajmcr . 
Director of Education , Uttar Pradesh 

Director of Education , Saurashtra Govern 

ment. 
Director of Fisheries, West Bengal . . Director of Fisheries, Madras . 
Director of Medical Services , Madras 

Director of Medical Services (Army), 
Directors and Deputy Director of Supplies and Director of Supplies and Transport. 

Disposals , 
jistrict Inspectors of Schools , Uttar Pradesh . District Inspectors of Schools , Madhya 

Pradesh . 
General Manager, Kanpur Electricity Supply Garrison Engineers . 

Administration , 
1 - Head Masters and Head Mistresses of Government Head Masters , Patwardhan High School, 
High Schools in Madras State. 

Nagpur and Government High School, 

Bhandara . 
Power Alcohol Authority , Uttar Pradesh 

Post Master General (including Director of 

Post and Telegraphs). 
Principal, King George s School, Ajmer . . Principal, Government Engincering School, 

Nagpur. 
Protector of Emigrants , Bombay . , Principal, Sea Transport Officer, India . 
Protector of Emigrants , Calcutta 

. Principal, Sea Transport Officer, India . 
Registrar Co - operative Societies , Uttar Pradesh . Registrar , Co - operative Societics , Madras . 
Special Superintendent of Police , C . I. D ., West Special Officer , Emergency Irrigation 
Bengal. 

Division , Orissa , 
Special Superintendent of Police, Intelligence Special Officer, Emergency Irrigation 
Branch , West Bengal. 

Division , Orissa . 
Superintendent, J. J. Group of Ilospitals, Bombay Superintendent Government Hospital, 

Madras State . 
Superintendent, Presidency High School for Superintendent of Telegraph Workshops 
Girls , Egmore. 

(including Manager, Bombay Telephone 

Work shop ) . 
Superintendent, Government Training Centre , Superintendent, Robertson Medical School, 
Rajahmundry , 

Nagpur. 
Transport Commissioner , Uttar Pradesh , . "Tchsildar, I[ atta ( Sargar District), Madhya 

Pradesh . 


(111 ) The following entries shall be omitted : 

Additional Chicf Engincer , Madras Public Works Department. 
Electrical Commissioner with the Government of Bombay . 
Hydro - Electric Engineer , Uttar Pradesh , 
Registrar of Chief Court of Oudh , 

[No. F8 (2 ) B /54 ] 
K . C . DAS, 


78 


Onu do Or INLU , JU * -, 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd June 1954 
S . R .O . 2107. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the 
Post Office National Savings Certificates Ordinance, 1944 (Ordinance No . XLII of 
1944 ) , the Central Government, in partial modification of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance, No. S . R . O . 1449, dated the 1st 
May , 1954 , hereby directs that rule C ( 1 ) (b ) of the Post Office National Savings 
Certificates Rules , 1944 in their application to Ten Year National Plan Certificates . 
shall be read as if for the words, abbreviations and figures " Certificates of Rs, 10 
and Rs. 5 only " , the words, abbreviations and figures " Certificates of Rs. 50 and 
Rs. 25 only " were substituted . 

[No. F .7 ( 27) - B / 54. ] 


New Delhi, the 23rd June 1954 


S . R . O . 2108 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 4 of the Public 
Debt Rules , 1946 , the Central Government hereby directs that the following shall 
be the form of a Government security for the purposes of item ( iv ) of sub 
clause ( a ) of clause ( 2 ) of section 2 of the Public Debt Act, 1944 (XVIII of 
1944 ) , namely : 


FORM 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Annuity Certificate 

Dated . . . . . . . 
NOT TRANSFERABLE 


No. . . . . . . 


Rs. . . . . . . . . 


THE PRESIDENT OF INDIA 
hereby acknowledges receipt of Rs. , . . . and in consideration thereof promises 
to pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a . . . . . . . . . . . . payment of Rs. . . . . for a period of 
.. . .. .ycars , the ſlrst of such payments being due on the, . . .. .. .day of. . ... .. next and 
every subsequent payment being due on the . . . . day of . . . . . . . . , until the . . . . 
day of . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 , when the last of such payments will become due , 
subjcct to the terms and conditions contained in the Government of India , Minis 
try of Finance Notification No. , . . . dated the . . . . . . 
Dated 

No. . . . . . 
By order and in the name of the President of India . 

Governor, Reserve Bank of India . 


Manager , 
Reserve Bank of India , Public Debt Office . 

[No, F . 1 ( 1) - B /54. ) 
S . R . O . 2109 , -- The following draft of certain rules which it is proposed to 
make in cxercise of the powers conferred by Section 28 of the Public Debt Act , 
1944, (XVIII of 1944 ) , is published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of the said 
section for the information of persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is 
hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration after the 26th 
July , 1954. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received by the undersigned from 
any person with respect to the said draft before the date specified will be consi 
dered by the Central Government. 

Draft Public Debt (Annuity Certifcates ) Rules, 1954. 

1. Short title and Application . - ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Public 
Debt ( Annuity Certificates ) Rules , 1954. 
(2 ) These rules shall 
(i) extend to the areas to which the Public Debt Act, 1944 (XVIII of 

1944 ) , extends; and 
( 11 ) apply to a Government security in the form of an annuity certificate 

issued under clause ( 2 ) ( a ) ( ly ) of section 2 of the Act read with 
rule 4 of the Public Debt Rules , 1946 . 


Drating the charcspersecstion 


. ART 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY " , " 


1670 


- 


2 . Definitions. - In these rules, unless the context otherwise refers 
( 1) " the Act" means the Public Debt Act, 1944 (XVIII of 1944 ) ; 

( 2 ) " annuity " means any periodical payment of a part of the principal and 
interest in pursuance of the issue of an annuity certificate as may be determined 
by the Government; 

( 3 ) " annuity certificate" means à Government security which provides for 
payment of an annuity ; 

( 4 ) " the Bank " means the Reserve Bank of India ; 
(5 ) " Form ” means a Form as set out in the Schedule to these rules; 
(8 ) " the Government " means the Central Government; 

( 7 ) " Public Debt Office " means the office of the Reserve Bank of India on 
the books of which an annuity certificate is or may be registered ; 

( 8 ) " mutilated annuity certificate " means an annuity certificate which has 
been destroyed , torn or damaged in material parts thereof and the material parts 
of an annuity certificate are those where : 
( i) the number , description and the face value of the annuity certificate 

or payments of annuity are recorded , or 
( ii) the name of the payee is written . 
( 9 ) " defaced annuity certificate " means an annuity certificate which has 
been made illegible or rendered undecipherable in material parts ; 

( 10 ) " lost annuity certificate " means an annuity certificate which has actual 
ly been lost and shall not mean an annuity certificate which is in the adverse 
possession of any person other than the claimant; and 

( 11 ) " section " means a section of the Act. 
3. Non - Transferability of Annuity Certificates. - An annuity certificate shall 

be transferable . 
: 4 . Payment of Annuity . The amounts due on an annuity certificate may be 
de payable at any treasury or sub - treasury in India or at the Public Debt 

ice , subject to compliance by the holder of such formalities as the Public 
rebt Omce may require and the payment shall accordingly be made at such 
reasury or sub - treasury or at the Public Debt Office on presentation of the 
nnuity certificate . The payee shall give a receipt in Form A . Where , however , 
he payment is due at a place where a Public Debt Office is located, the annuity 
certificate shall be presented at the Public Debt Omce which shall issue an 
annuity warrant in favour of the holder payable at the local office of the Bank . 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein any payment due at a treasury or 
Bub - treasury may be made by the Public Debt Office by a warrant payable at 
such treasury or sub - treasury . 

5 . Procedure when an Annuity Certificate is lost etc . — ( 1 ) Every application 
for the issue of a duplicate annuity certificate in the place of an annuity certi 
Acate which is alleged to have been lost , stolen , destroyed , mutilated or defaced , 
either wholly or in part, shall be addressed to the Public Debt Office and shall 
be accompanied by : 
( a ) a statement containing the following particulars: 

( i) the period for which payments have been made ; 
(ii) the place at which the annuity certificate was for the time being en 

faced for payment; 
( iii) the circumstances attending the loss, theft, destruction , mutilation or 

defacement; and 
( iv ) whether the loss or theft was reported to the police ; 
(b ) the Post Office registration receipt for the cover containing the annuity 
" rtificate if the same was lost in transmission by registered post; 

(c ) a copy of the police report, if the loss or theft was reported to the police ; 


( d ) an affidavit sworn before a Magistrate testifying that the applicant was 
le legal holder of the annuity certificate and that the annuity certificate is not 
1 his possession nor has it been dealt with by him ; 

( e ) any portions or fragments which may remain of the lost, stolen , destroyed , 
qutilated or defaced annuity certificate , 


1680 


. . Gazile OF Lt 4 , JUL . 3 , 1 ; 


. 


t 


, 


, 


( 2 ) A duplicate of the letter sent to the Public Debt Omce but not of its en 
closures, shall also be sent to the treasury where the certificate was enfaced 
for payment. 

( 3 ) The Bank shall, if it is satisfied of the loss, theft, destruction , mutilation 
or defacement of the annuity certificate order the Public Debt Omnce to issue a 
duplicate annuity certificate. 

6 . Determination of Mutilated Annuity Certificate Requiring Renewal. - It 
shall be at the option of the Bank to treat an annuity certificate which has been 
mutilated or defaced , as an annuity certificate requiring issue of a duplicate 
under rule 5 or a renewal under Rule 7. 

7 . When an Annuity Certificate is Required to be Renewed . - ( 1 ) A holder 
of an annuity certificate may be required by the Public Debt Office to receipt the 
bame for renewal in any of the following cases, namely : 

( a ) if the annuity certificate is torn or in any way damaged ; 
( b ) if the annuity certificate having been enlaced three times for pay 

ment of annuity is presented for re - enfacement; and 
( c ) if , in the opinion of the Public Debt Once, the title of the persor 

presenting the annuity certificate is irregular or not fully proved . 
( 2 ) When a reguisition for renewal of a certificate has been made under sub 
rule ( 1 ) , further payments on the certificate may be refused until it is receiptul 
for renewal and actually renewed . 

8 . Execution of Bonds by Persons Entitled to Annuity Certificates. - In cases 
to which section 9 , 10 , 11 or 12 applies , the Bank may require any person congi 
dered by it as being entitled to an annuity certificate to execute a bond in Form 
B , with or without sureties or furnishing collateral security in the form of 
Government securities not exceeding twice the value of the subject matter 
the order, to be held at the disposal of the Bank , to pay to the Bank or to an 
person to whom the Bank may assign the bond or security in furtherancer 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 16 , the amount thereof . 

9 . Receipt for Renewal Etc .- Subject to any general or specific instructii 
from the Bank , the Public Debt Omce may , on application by the holder , ren 
an annuity certificate provided that the annuity certificate has been receipt 
in form C . 

10 . Application for Grant of Information . - ( 1 ) Any person requiring informa 
tion regarding an annuity certificate in the custody of the Public Debt Ofice 
may apply to that office in writing . 

( 2 ) Every such application shall state with precision the particulars (namely 
the number , description and the face value ) of the annuity certificate and shall 
contain a statement of the purpose for which the information is required and of 
the interest of the applicant in the annuity certificate . If any of the above 
particulars are not known to the applicant, the Bank may on application in 
writing being made to it, direct the Public Debt Office , at its discretion , to supply 
the required particular or particulars , if available , to the applicant subject 
such conditions and on payment of such fees, if any , as it may prescribe. 

11. Disposal of Application for Grant of Information or Inspection . - T 
Bank may reject any application for grant of information about any annui 
certificate without stating any reason therefor. 

12 . Indemnity Bond and Fees in connection with Grant of Information or 
Inspection . - ( 1 ) Before any information is supplied , every applicant shall, if so 
required by the Bank , execute a bond of indemnity as nearly as may be in Form 
D for such amount as may be specified by the Bank not exceeding twice the 
value of the annuity certificate . 

( 2 ) Before any information is supplied to him every applicant shall, if yo 
required by the Bank , pay a fee of one rupee for each annuity certificate 
respect of which any information is supplied . 

13 . Fees , - Every applicant shall pay a fce of one rupee for each renewed . hr 
duplicate annuity certificate before a renewed or duplicate annuity certificat 
Issued to him . 

14 . Public Debt Rules with Certain Exceptions not to Apply to Governm - ne 
Securities Governed by these Rules. The Public Debt Rules, 1946 except 
4 thereof shall not apply to such Government securities in the form of ann 
certificates to which thesc rules apply . 


FORM A 

( See rule 4 ) 
Roceipt for payment on annuity certificates 

. . . . . . . . . Annuity Certificates 
Received from the Government Treasury at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .payment duc on Annuity 
Certificates as follows : 


Amount 
of each 
Certifi - 
cate 


Amount 
of pay . 
ment 


No, of Annuity Certificate 


Period 

for 
which 
payments 
are due 


Total 
amount 

due 


Date 
up to 
which 
payment 
is due 


Name of 
holder of 
Anquity 
Certifi 


cate 


Rs . 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. Ag, Ps, 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


Total received (in words) 


LUTE 


III III . I . III 


Signature 
(State whether holder or 

holder s attorney or 
administrator ). 


n 


this . . . . . son of 

e Reserve Bank of Indinne 


FORM B 
( See rule 8 ) 

Security Bond 
This Agrecment is made on the . . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . Between . . 

nt of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . of the one part and 
ve Bank of India of the other part. 
Whereas I / we am / are represent the true and lawful owner / s of the . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . Annuity Certificates specified in the Schedule " A " hereto annexed . 

And whereas I/ we have applied to the Rescrve Bank of India , Public Debt 
Office . . . . . . . . . . for . . . . . . . . . . , of the said Annuity Certificates and the said 
Bank have consented so to do upon my / our giving security of Rs, . . . . . . . . . . to 
meet a claim by a rightful owner to the said Annuity Certificates in case there 
shall be such a claim . 

Now these Presents witness that in pursuance of the aforesaid agreement I/ 
we hereby oblige myself /ourselves to make good the claim of the rightful 
owner in respect of the said Annuity Certificates and I / we hereby further agree 
that this security bond may be held by the said Bank and the said Bank may 
assign the security bond to the rightful owner of the said Annuity Certificates . 

In witness whereof I / we have subscribed my/ our name/ names . . . . . . . 
day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Signed by the within 
mentioned in the 
presence of 

Principal. 

. . . . . . . . . . son of . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . resident of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
hereby undertake to make good any claim to the rightful owner of the Annuity 
Certificates mentioned in the schedule hereto in case the principal/ principals 
makes /make default in payment of the claim by virtue of the above agreement. 

Signed by the within 
mentioned in the 
presence of 

Surety . 


I /we 1 . . ! ! ! 


1682 


T. LX GAZETTE OF INDIA , JW . .. 9, 1804 


. ART 11 - Sc. 


Schedule " A " referred to in the Bond. 


Nature and description of the 

Annuity certificate 


Number 


Date of issue 


Amount 


FORM C 

( See rule 9) 
Form of Indorsement for Renewal of an Annuity Certificate 
Received in lieu hereof a renewed annuity certificate payable to ( name of 
holder ) , with annuity payable at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Treasury. 

Signature of the holder / duly authorised representative of name of holder ) 


. 


FORM D 

( See rule 12 ) 

Form of Indemnity Bond 
Whereas I / we . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . son of . . . . . . . . resident at . . . . . . . . ( and . . . . 
. . . . . son of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . resident at . 

claimed to be en 
titled : : 

. . . . . . . . . . . ) . 
(Here state in what capacity claim to the Annuity Certiflates is made ). 
to the Annuity Certificate (s ) specified in the schedule hereunder written and 
have represented to the Reserve Bank of India , Public Debt Office , . . . . . . . . . . . . 
that the said Annuity Certificate ( s ) has /have been . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and have 
applied to the Reserve Bank of India , Public Debt Office , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . for 
an inspection of the said Annuity Certificate ( s ) and also for all other informa 
tion and particulars respecting the said Annuity Certificate ( s ) and whereas the 
Reserve Bank of India , Public Debt Office, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . has agreed to 
have inspection and to afford to me / us all information and particulars affecting 
the said Annuity Certificates I/ we oblige myself / ourselves my /our heirs and 
assigns whatsoever ( To be omitted if bond taken from one person only ) ( jointly 
and severally ) to India , Public Debt Olce , .. .. ... .. .. .. ... . ... .. .. ...and the Government 
to the extent of Rs.* .. .. .. .. .. from all and any claim , question and expenses 
which may be raised against or incurred by the Reserve Bank of India , Public 
Debt Office , , 

. ...... .. .... or the Government in reference to the said 
Annuity Certificate (s ) . 

In witness hereof I /we have subscribed my /our name( 3 ) this . . . . . . . 
day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Signed by the within 
mentioned in the 
presence of 


Applicant s Signature . 
This Schedule referred to in the foregoing Bond . 
* Double the amount of the payments made thereon since the respective dates 
of issue, 

[No. F . 7 ( 1 ) - B / 54. ] 
H . S . NEGI, Dy . Secy . 


14 | 


TA LA 11. . 


DRAFT RULES 
1. Short title . These rules may be called the Customs Duties Drawback 
( Linoleum ) Rules , 1954. 
2 . Definitions. In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires - - 

( a ) “ the Act” means the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878 ) ; 
( b ) " section " means any section of the Act: 
( c ) " linolcum " means floor covering material made by impregnating a 

foundation of hessian or other fabric with a prepared cement and 
includes material ordinarily known under the following names , 
namely , plain linoleum , inlaid linoleum , printed linoleum , Moire 
and Japse and Marble sheet Linoleums, and printed felt base 

otherwise known as Indoleum ; 
( d ) " Imported materials " means materials of all kind imported on pay 

ment of customs duty into India and used in the manufacture of 

linoleum ; 
( e ) " registered manufacturer " means a manufacturer of linoleum , who 

has registered himself for the purpose of these rules in accordance 

with the provisions of rule 5 . 
3 . Goods in respect of which drawback may be paid . Subject to the provi 
sions of the Act and these rules , a drawback shall be allowed in the case of 
linoleum (hereinafter referred to as the goods ) manufactured in , and exported 
from , India or shipped as stores for use on board a ship proceeding to a foreign 
port in respect of imported materials used in the manufacture of such goods. 

4 . Period for which drawback admissible .-- A drawback under these rules 
shall be admissible for the period during which a notification in respect of the 
goods is in force under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 43B . 

5 . Registration of manufacturers . - - ( 1 ) A drawback permissible under these 
rules shall apply in respect of such goods as have been manufactured by a 
person who has, in accordance with the provisions of these rules , registered him 
self for such purpose. 

( 2 ) An application for registration shall be made by the manufacturer of the 
goods to the Chief Customs Authority who may nominate any Chief Customs 
Officer , (hereinafter referred to as the " nominated Chief Customs Omcer " ) to 
act on its behalf in this respect . 

( 3 ) Such application shall describe the varieties , brands, if any , and other 
specifications of the goods in respect of which registration is desired and shall, 
in respect of cach of such variety or brand , furnish : 
( a ) the description and quantity of different materials used in the manu 

facture of one hundred yards of the goods, 
( b ) the average amount of customs duty , based on the values and the 

amounts of duty on importation during the preceding year of such 
of these materials as arc imported and are not duty - free, on the 

quantities referred to in the foregoing sub - clause. 
( 4 ) The nominated Chief Customs Ofccr may register the applicant as a 
manufacturer for the purpose of these rules, subject to the applicant cxecuting 
a bond for Rs. 1000 / - or such increased amount not exceeding Rs. 10 ,000 / - as 
may be fixed , undertaking not to vary the composition or formula for any brand 
or variety of the goods, or the quantity of different imported materials used in 
the manufacture , without the prior permission of the nominated Chicf Customs 
Officer . 

(5 ) Any manufacturer found varying the formula or composition of the 
goods contrary to the undertaking furnished as contemplated in sub - rule ( 4 ) 
shall be liable to have his registration cancelled , besides any other penalties to 
which he may be liable under the Act. 


6 . Rate of drawback , - ( 1 ) the rate of drawback of duty admissible under 
these rules on the shipment of the goods in the prescribed manner shall be 7 / 8th 
of the average amount of customs duty paid on materials used in the manufac 
ture of goods, and this shall be determined every 3 months on the basis of 
statements furnished by the registered manufacturer and verified by the nomi 
nated Chicf Customs Officer , of the average value and duty paid on the imported 
materials used in the manufacture of goods, imported during the preceding year 
or any longer period in respect of any or all of the materials , as the nominated 
Chief Customs Officer may deem convenient, 


JULX - 


1 . 


New Delhi, the 24th June 1954 


S . R . O . 2110 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 ( X of 1949 ) and rule 16 of the Banking Companies Rules, 
1949 , the Central Government, on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of 
India , hereby declares that the provisions of section 31 of the said Act and rule 
15 of the said Rules shall not apply to the undernoted banking companies in so 
far as they relate to the publication of their balance sheets and profit and loss 
accounts for the period ended the 31st December , 1953 , together with the audi 
tors report in a newspaper , namely : 

1 . Dariapur Bank Ltd ., Calcutta . 
2. Mandya Bank Ltd ., Mandya. 

[No. F .4 ( 103) - F .1/ 54. ] 
K . P . BISWAS , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION ) 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 3rd July 1954 
S . R . O . 2111 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ( I of 1944 ) , the Central Government hereby rescinds 
with immediate effect the notification of the Government of India , Ministry of 
Finance (Revenue Division ) No. 3 Salt, dated the 29th March , 1947, 

[No. 30 .] 


DANGEROUS DAUGS 

New Delhi, the 3rd July 1954 
S . R . O . 2112 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (2 ) of 
Section 5 of the Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930 ( II of 1930 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made in 
the Central Opium Rulcs, 1934 , the same having been previously published as 
required by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 36 of the said Act, namely : 
In clause (b ) of rule 2 of the said Rules, 

(a ) the word and after the words " Hoshiarpur district " shall be omitted . 
(b ) after the words “ Kohistan district" , the words " and in the State of 

Uttar pradesh , within the paragana of Jaunsar Bawar in the district 
of Dehradun and within the paraganas of Jaunpur and Rawain in 
the district of Tehri -Garhwal" shall be inserted . 

[No. 2. ) 
M . P . ALEXANDER , Under Secy . 


CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 3rd July 1954 
S . R . O . 2113. - Thc following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of 
the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ) , is published as required by sub - section 

( 3 ) of section 43B of the said Act, for the information of persons likely to be 
affected thereby , and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken 
into consideration after one month from the date of publication of this noti 
fication in the official Gazette . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3 , 1954 


1685 


( 2 ) The drawback so calculated shall be in force for a period of 3 calendar 
months beginning with the first of the month succeeding that in which it is 
determined and shall apply to shipments made during that period from any port 
in India . 


7 . Manner of allowing drawback . - Drawback shall be allowed on the ship 
ment of the goods from any port in India subject to the following conditions , 
nameiy : 

(a ) the shipper of the goods will make a declaration on the relative ship 
ping bill: 

(i) that a claim for drawback under section 43B is being made, and 
(ii) that to the best of his knowledge and belief, the composition of the 

goods and the proportion of the different imported duty - paid 
materials used in the manufacture of the goods have not been 
altered subsequent to the registration of the manufacturer save 

with the prior permission of the nominated Chief Customs Officer , 
( b ) The shipper shall in the shipping bill, furnish , in addition to information 
required under section 29 such additional information as may , in the opinion of 
the Customs Collector, be necessary for the purpose of verification of the claim . 
for drawback , and in particular the Customs Collector may require such addi 
tional information in respect of the following matters , namely : 

( i) the description of the goods, 
( ii ) the name of the manufacturer , the registration number of the manu 

facturer and the authority or Officer with whom he got himself 

registered , 
( iii) the particulars of any brand or trade mark attached to the goods , 

( iv ) length , width , weight and like particulars in respect of the goods. 
( 2 ) No drawback shall be allowed on the shipment of goods in respect of 
which the composition or formula hus been varied contrary to the undertaking 
mentioned in sub - rule ( 4 ) of rule 5 , 


8 . Powers of Customs Collector . For the purposes of enforcing these rules, 
the Customs Collector may require : 
( a ) a registered manufacturer to produce any books of accounts or other 

documents of whatever nature relating to the proportion and 
quantity of different materials used in the manufacture and the 
value and duty paid on imported materials used in the manufac 

ture ; 
( b ) any person who has been concerned at any stage with the goods to 

producc any books of accounts or other documents of whatever 

nature relating to the goods ; and 
( c ) the production of such certificates, documents and other evidence in 

respect of each claim for drawback as may be necessary , 
9 . Access to Manufactory . A registered manufacturer of goods in respect of 
which a drawback is claimed shall give access to cvcry part of his manufactory 
to any officer of the Central Government specially authorised in this behalf by 
the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief Customs Authority to enable the officer 
so authorised to inspect the processes of manufacture and to verify by actual 
check or otherwise the statements made in support of the claim for drawback . 

[No. 60 . ] 


S . R . O . 2114 . — The following draft of a rulc which the Central Government 
proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ) , is published , as required by sub - section ( 3 ) 
of section 43B of the said Act , for the information of persons likely to be affected 
thereby, and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into 
consideration after one month from the date of the publication of this notification 
in the official Gazette . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received by the undersigned from 
any person with respect to the said draft before the date specifled will be : 
considered by the Central Government. 


1686 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


[PART II — SEC . 3 


DRAFT RULE 
The Customs Duties Drawback ( Cotton Cloth and Yarn ), Rules , 1953 publish 
ed with the notification of the Government of India , the Ministry of Finance 
( Revenue Division ) No . 92 , dated the 26th November, 1953 are hereby rescinded 
and shall be deemed always to have been resçinded with effect from the 15th 
- June, 1954 . 

[No. 61 ] 
A . K . MUKARJI, Dy. Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME- TAX 
New Delhi, the 26th June 1954 


S . R . O . 2115 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of 
Section 5 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) , the Central Board 
of Revenue hereby directs that Shri V . Hoon who has been appointed to be a 
Commissioner of Income- tax with effect from the 19th June, 1954 (afternoon ) , 
shall perform all the functions of a Commissioner of Income- tax in respect 
of such areas as are comprised in the States of Assam , Manipur and Tripura , 
and in respect of such persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or 
classes of incomes or of such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the 
following Income- tax Circles in the State of West Bengal, namely :-- 


Calcutta (Central) 
Central Circles I, II, III, IV , V , VI, VII & VIIII of Calcutta Central charge. 

Provided that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such areas or 
of such persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of incomes 
or such cases or classes of cascs as have been or may be transferred by the 
Central Board of Revenue to any other Commissioner of Income- tax or any 
Income- tax Authority subordinate to him . 

[No. 38.] 
K . B . DEB , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 22nd June 1954 
S . R . O . 2116 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 7 of the Central 
Silk Board Act ( Act No . LXI of 1978 ) , the Central Government has been pleased 
to appoint Shri A . T . Janakiraman , Sericultural Expert to the Government of 
Madras , Kollegal, as Secretary of the Central Silk Board , Bombay, with effect 
from the forenoon of 10th June, 1954, 

[No . 23 (53 ) -CTB /53.] 
B . K . KOCHAR , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

New Delhi, the 21st June 1954 
S . R . O . 2117. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause 2 ( a ) of the Vege 
table Oil Products Control Order , 1947 , as amended by the Government of India , 
in the Ministry of Food & Agriculture Notification No , S . R . O . 2040 , dated the 
22nd December, 1951, I hereby authorise the officers specified in Col. 2 of the 
Schedule hereto annexed in respect of their respective jurisdiction in the State 
mentioned in Col. 1 to exercise subject to such directions as may be issued by me 
from time to time in this behalf , the powers of, the Vegetable Oil Products Con 
troller for India under clause 13 of the said Order . 


PART II — SEC. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


1687 


THE SCHEDULE 


State 

( 1 ) 


Designation of authority 

- (2 ) 


Patiala and East Punjab States 

Union , 


Director of Health Services. 
2 . Deputy Director of Health Services. 
3. Divisional Health Officers. 
4 . Food Inspectors . 
5. Senior Sanitary Inspectors . 
I. Director of Industries and Labour, 
2. Technical Assistant to the Director of Industries 

and Labour 
3. Superintendent of Industries. 


Delhi . 


. 


, 


, 


[No. 2 -VP (2 ) / 54 ) / 242.7 

A , ZAMAN , 
Vegetable Oil Products Controller for India . 


(Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 3rd July 1954 
S . R . O . 2118 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricul 
tural Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 ( I of 1937 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby makes the following rules , the same having been previously publish 
ed as required by the said section , namely : 

THE ESSENTIAL OILS GRADING AND MARKING RULES, 1954 
1 . Short title and application . - ( 1) These rules may be called the Essential 
Oils Grading and Marking Rules, 1054 . 

( ii ) They shall apply to essential oils produced in India . 

2 . Grade designations . — Grade designations to indicate the quality of essential 
oils produced in India shall be as set out in column I of Schedules III and IV 
annexed to the Rules. 

3 . Definition of quality . — The quality indicated by the grade designations shall 
be as set out against such designations in columns 2 to 7, Schedules III and IV 
annexed to the Rules. 

4 . Grade designation marks, - The grade designation mark shall consist of a 
label bearing a design ( consisting of an outline map of India with the word 
" AGMARK " and the figure of the rising sun with words " Produce of India " ) 
resembling that set out in Schedule I specifying the names of the essential oil, 
the grade designation and in colours specified in the aforesaid Schedule. 

5 . Method of Marking . – ( i) The grade designation mark shall be securely 
applied to each container in the manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing 
Adviser to the Government of India and the following particulars shall be marked 
on the container or the label: 

( a ) name of packer ; 
( b ) place of packing ; 
( c ) date of packing ; and 

( d ) lot number. 
( ii ) An authorised packer may after obtaining the previous approval of the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India , mark his private 
trade mark on a container in a manner approved by the said officer : 

Provided that the private trade mark does not represent quality or grade of 
essential oil different from that indicated by the grade designation mark affixed 
on the container in accordance with the said Rules . 

( iii) Only clean containers which shall be securely closed and sealed in a 
manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 
India shall be used for packing . 

6 . Special conditions of certificate of authorisation . - In addition to the condi 
tions specified in rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules , 1937 , the 


1688 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3 , 1954 


[ PART II — SEC . 3 


conditions set out in Schedule II , shall also be the conditions subject to which 
a certificate of authorisation is issued for the purposes of rules. 


SCUDULE I 
(a ) Grade designation mark for Essential Oils . 

(See rule 4 ) 


भारत की उत्पत्ति 


Part 
IND 


ODUCE 


las fwegun Gordon 
agar apat eu a 


(6 ) Colour scheme. 

(i) Lemongrass oll. 
Grado designation 


Colour of border of the labei 


Colour of lettering slowing the 

Grade 
Red 
Grecn 


Ret" 


Special 
Grade A 

(ii) Sandalwood oil . 


Green 


Grade designation 


Colour of lettering showing the 

Grade 

Red 


Colour of border of the label 

Red . 


Grade A 


SCHEDULE II 

( See rule 6 ) 
( a ) An authorised packer shall have suitable arrangements for Alteration , blending and storage 
of essential oils . 


PART II — SEC . 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3 , 1954 


1689 


(6 ) If an authorised packer handlçs more than one essential oil on the same premises adequate 
precautions shall be taken to avoid the mixing of different oils. 


( c) An authorised packer shall make such arrangements for testing essential oils as may be 
prescribed and a duplicate sample from cach lot of essential oil to be graded shall be forwarded to 
buch Control Laboratory as may be notified from time to timc by the AgriculturalMarketing Adviser 
to the Government of India . 


( d ) All instructions regarding the methods of sampling, analysis , packing , etc ., which may from 
timc to time be issued by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India , consistent 
with the provisions of the Act and the rules made thercunder , shall be strictly observed . 


SCHEDULE III* 


Grade designations and definition of quality of East Indian Lemongrass Oil (Cochin Lemongrass oil 

(See rules 2 and 3) 


Description and 
appearance 


Physiochemical characteristics 
Grade | Specific | Optical Refractive Total Solubility 
designation gravity at rotation | Index at | Aldehyde in 70 % 
30°/300 

30° C (Citral) con - | ( by volume) 
CF 

tent 

ethyl alcohol 
(determi 
ned by 
bisulphite 
method ) 


І 


| 


Special 


0 . 888 to 
0 .898 


$ 1 to 3° | 1 4786 to 

1 -4846 


than 80 % 


Soluble in 

2 to 3 vol 
umes . 


The East Indian 
Lemongrass oil 
shall be the red 
dish - yellow to 
brown mobile 
essential oli 
obtained by the 
process of steam 
distillation and / or 
water distillation 
of clean Cymbo 
pogon flexuousus 

D . C .) Staff . plants 
and shall be 
free from admix 
ture with any 
other oil or 
gubstance. It 
shall have a 
lemonlike odour 
and shall be 
clear, free from 
any scdiment and 
suspended matter. 
It shall be dry . 


Grade A 


0 .888 to 
0 . 898 


+ 1° to 
- 3° 


I -4786 to Not less 

1. 4846 | than 76 % 


Do. 


* The specifications are based on The Indian Standard Specification for Lemongrass Oil 
IS 327- 1952). 

+ The correction factor for specific gravity for each degree Centigrade rise in temperature 
shall be - 0 . 00079 . 

The correction factor for refractive index for each degree Centigradc rise in temperaturo 
hall be - 0 . 00044 . 

$ The actual citral content shall be suitably indicated . 


1690 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


[PART II — SEC . 8 


- 


- 


SCHEDULĘ IV * 


Grade designations and definition of quality of East Indian Sandalwood Oil 


(Scc rules 2 and 3) 


Grade Specific 
designation Gravity at 

30° / 30°C + 


Optical 
rotation 


Physłochemical characteristics 

Refractive ) Total Solubility 
Index at l alcohol in 70 % 
30°/ C . (Santalol) 

(by volume) 
content ethyl alcohol 


Description and 

appearance 


The East Indian 
Sandalwood oil 
shall be the pale 
yellow or nearly 
colourless essential 
oil obtained by 
steam distillation 
and /or water dis 
tillation of Santa 
lum album Linn , 
only , and shall 
be free from admix 
ture with any 
other oil or sub 
gtance . 


rade A . 1 0 . 962 to 

0 . 976 


- 15° to 
- - 20 " 


1 . 4990 to 


Not less 
than 90 % 


Soluble in 
5 volumes, 


J1 . 5060 


It shall be clear , 

free from sedi 
ment and suspend 
ed matter. It 
shall be dry and 
shall have the cha 
racteristic faint 
but persistent 
odour and unplea 
sant taste . 


* The specifications are based on the Indian Standard Specification for Sandalwood Oil (IS : 
329 - 1952). 

The correction factor for specific gravity for each degrec Centigrade risc in temperature 
shall be - 0 00070 . 

The correction factor for refractive index for each degree Centigrade rise in temperature 
shall be - 0 . 00039. 

[No. F . 5 -86/52 - Dte. II.] 


S . R . O . 2119 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce 
Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 (I of 1937 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that with 
effect on and from the 1st September 1954 the following further amendments shall be made in the 
Creamery Butter Grading and Marking Rules, 1941, the same having been published previously 
All required by the said section , namely : 

In the said Rules : 


(1) for Schedule I, the following Schedule shall be substituted , namely ; 


PART II- SEC. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


1691 


SCHEDULE I 


Grade designations and definition of special and general characteristics of Creamery Butter . 


(See rules 2 and 3 ) 


Grade designation 


Special characteristics 


General characteristics 


Pasteurised Table Butter 


Shall be made from pasteu - (a ) General. — Shall be derived 

rised cream and be of only from clean and whole 
good kçeping quality . some cream obtained from the 

milk of cows or buffaloes 
or both with or withiout the 
addition of clean dairy salt . 
The butter shall contain no 
other preservatives . 


Unpasteurised Table Butter . Shall be fof good keeping (6 ) Flavour and aroma. — Shall 

quality . 

bc clean , pleasant and free 
from objectionable taint or 
rancidity . No extraneous fla 
vour except diacetyl shall be 
added . 


(c) Body and Texture. - - Shall be 

firm at 60° F and be neither 
grcaxy nor oily . Body shall 
be compact and show a uni 
form fine granular surface on 
breaking. 


( d ) Colour, - Shall be uniform 

and not show streakinces , 
mottling, stalns or signs of 
curd . Only harmless colour 
ing matter may be added . 


( e) Moisture content... Shall not 

be more than 18 % , uniformly 
distributed in the body. 


( ) Acidity . - - Shall not be more 

than 0 15 % as lactic acid . 


(8 ) Milk fat content. Shall not 

be less than 80 . 0 % . 


( h ) Curd. — Shall not be more 

than 1 . 0 % . 


(1) The purity of butter fat 

produced in a particular area 
and /or season shall be judged 
with reference to the chemical 
constants prescribed under the 
Ghcc Grading and Marking 
Rules 1938 for ghee produced 
in the same arca and /or sca 
NO . . " . 


1692 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JULY 3, 1954 


[ PART II — Sec . 3 


(2 ) For Schedule II, the following Schedule shall be substituted , namely : 

" SCHEDULE II 
Grade designation marks for Creamery Butter 

(see rule 4 ) 


- - - - - - - - - 


- 


Grade designation 


Design of label 


Colour of lettering 
showing the grade. 


Colour of the circular 
border of the label. 


GOVERA 


ONMENTOS 

ACMARK 2 
AGMARK) 
TABLE BUTTER 


1. Pasteurised Table Butter 


Red 


. 


, 


Red . 


PASTEURISLO / 


FT 


COVERNA 


TAGMARK 


2 . Unpasteurised 

Butter . 


Table 


ASMARKT 
AGMARK 


Bluc 


. 


, 


Blue, 


ON 


UNPASTEURISED ) 
VASLE BUTTER 

STAT 


VaRa 


NOTE . - The labels shall be printed on the water mark paper of the Government of India and 
shall have a microtint background bearing the words Government of India in olive green colour. 

Each label shall have printed thereon a serial number along with a letter or letters denoting 
the series, e. g ., A .054987." 

(3 ) In clause (b ) of Schedulc III, for the brackets and words Select ( Pasteurised ) Table 
Butter the words . Pasteurised Table Butter shall be substituted . 

[No. 7 . 3 - 12 /49 -Co. 
S . K . RAO , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi- 2, the 29th June 1954 
S . R . O . 2120 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of section 
6 of the Cinematograph Act , 1952 (XXXVII of 1952 ) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the film entitled " Cease Fire" in respect of which U certifi 
cate No. 10817 , dated the 4th May , 1954 was granted by the Central Board of 
Film Censors to the Paramount Films of India , Ltd ., Bombay shall be deemed to 
be an uncertified Alm in the whole of India . 

[No. 9 / 15 /54 - F . C . ] 
T . R . V . CHARI, Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 18th June 1954 
S . R . O . 2121. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 33 of the Drugs 
Act, 1940 (XXIII of 1940 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the 


PART II SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


1693 


- 


following further amendments shall be made in the Drugs Rules , 1945 , the same 
having been previously published as required by the said section , namely : 

In rule 65 of the said Rules, 
( a ) for condition (1 ) the following condition shall be substituted , namely ; 
" ( 1 ) Any drug specified in Schedule E or any preparation containing any 

such drug and any such drug supplied on a prescription shall, if com 
pounded or made up on the licensee s premises , be compounded or 
made up by or under the direct and personal supervision of a quall 

fied person ." ; and 
(b ) in the opening paragraph of condition ( 3 ) , for the words " The supply of 
any drug on the prescription of a registered medical practitioner the words " The 
supply of any drug on a prescription " shall be substituted . 

[No. F . 1 - 12 / 48 - D .] 
New Delhi, the 22nd June 1954 
S . R . O . 2122 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 and 33 of the 
Drugs Act, 1940 (XXIII of 1940 ) , the Central Government, after consultation with 
the Drugs Technical Advisory Board , hereby directs that the following further 
amendment shall be made in the Drugs Rules , 1945 , the same having been pre 
viously published as required by the said sections, namely : 

In the said Rules, for rule 106 the following rule shall be substituted , name 
ly : 
" 106 . Diseases which a drug may not purport to prevent or cure . - ( 1 ) No 

drug may purport or claim to prevent or cure , or may convey to the 
intending user thereof any idea that it may prevent or cure , one 

or more of the diseases or ailments specified in Schedule J ; 
( 2 ) No drug may purport or claim to procure or assist to procure, or may 

convey to the intending user thereof any idea that it may procure 
or assist to procure, miscarriage in women ." 

[No. F .1 - 16 / 52 - DS .] 


New Delhi, the 23rd June 1954 
8 . R . O . 2123 . — In pursuance of section 3 of the Pharmacy Act , 1948 (VIII of 
1948 ) , and in modification of the notification of the Government of India , in 
the Ministry of Health , No. F .1 - 2 /48 - DS , dated the 9th March , 1949, the Central 
Government hereby re - constitutes the Pharmacy Council of India consisting of 
the following members, namely : 
Elected by the Inter -University Board under clause (a ) . 

1. Prof. S . Rangaswami, M . A ., Ph . D ., D . Phil., Andhra University , Waltair. 
2 . Dr . R . P . Patel, M . Sc., Ph . D ., Gujarat University, Ahmedabad . 
9 . Surgeon - Commander Jal. R . Patel, M .D ., F .C . P . S ., Grant Medical Col 

lege , Bombay . 
4 . Dr. S . Prasad , Banaras Hindu University , Banaras. 
5. Shri M . L . Khorana , B .Sc. ( Pb .), M .S . (Mich .), Department of Chemical 

Technology , Bombay University , Bombay . 
6 . Dr. B . Sahai, M . D ., Gwalior Medical College, Gwalior. 
Nominated by the Central Government under clause (b ) . 
7 , Shri B . Chittaranjan , B . Sc . (Pharm .) (Madras ) , M . S . (Mags .) , Techni 

cal Adviser , Sandoz Products Ltd ., Bombay . 
8 . Shri A . N . Lazarus, Manager , Chemists and Dispensary Department, 

M / s. Spencer and Co. Ltd ., Madras. 
9 . Dr. H . R . Nanji , B .Sc., Ph .D . (Lond .) , B . Pharm . (Lond .) , F .R . I. C ., 

Managing Director , “ ITALAB " Ltd . and Technical Director, 

Pharmed Ltd ., Bombay . 
10. Shri M . L . Schroff, A .B . (Cornell), M .S . (Mass.), Birla Brothers Ltd ., 

Calcutta . 
11. Shri P . M . Nabar, B . A ., B . Sc . (Bom .), B . Sc. ( Tech .) , (Manchester ) , 

F .R . I.C ., Drugs Controller , India , Directorate General of Health Ser 
vices . 


1694 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3 , 1984 


[ PART II — SEC . 3 


S 


- R 


12. Shri K . R . Chandran , Messrs. Bliss and Cotton , New Delhi. 
Elected by the Medical Council of India under clause (c ) . 
13 . Dr. V . G . Nair, L . M . S ., L . R .C .S ., M . R .C . P ., F .R . F . P . S ., Paruvakat , Chera 

layam , Kunnamkulam ( Travancore - Cochin ) , 
Ex -offlcio members under clauses ( d ) , ( e ) and ( f) . 

14 , The Director General of Health Services . 
15 . The Director of the Central Drugs Laboratory . 
16 . The Chief Chemist , Central Revenues. 


Elected by the State Pharmacy Councils under clause ( 9 ) . 
17 . Shri B . V . Patel, B . Sc ., B .Pharm . (Lond.) , Ph .C ., Drugs Controller for 

the State of Bombay , Manekjee Wadi Building, III Floor, 127 , 

Mahatma Gandhi Road , Bombay . 
18 . Shri N . C . Dutta , B . Sc ., B . Pharm ., Teacher of Pharmacy , Pharmacy, 

Training Centre, Jackson Medical School, Jalpaiguri, West Bengal. 
19 . Dr . K . N . Gaind, B . Sc., Ph. D ., F .R .I.C ., A .I.I. Sc., Lecturer in Pharmaceu 

tics , Medical College , Amritsar . 


Nominated by State Governments under clause ( g ) , read with the proviso to 

section 3 , and holding office by virtue of section 7 ( 1 ) until successors are 
elected by members of the State Pharmacy Councils concerned . 
20 . Prof. G . P . Srivastava, M . Pharm ., Banaras Hindu University , Banaras , 
21 . Shri S . L . Naravaria , Compounder, Mayo Hospital, Nagpur . 
22. Dr. Shiv Bihari Lal, Chemical Analyst, Drugs, Control Laboratory, 


Bihar. 


23. Shri Raj Kishore Nanda , Secretary , All Utkal compounders Union , 

Cuttack . 
24. Shri B . K . Datta Roy , M . Sc., Officer - in -Charge Government Public 

Health Laboratory , Shillong, 
Nominated by State Governments under clause (h ) . 
25 . Shri G . K . Dixit., B . Sc., B . Sc. ( Tech .), M . S . ( Pharm .) Production 

Manager , M / s . Lederle Laboratories ( India ) Ltd ., Bulsar . 
26 . Dr. P . C . Adhya , M .Sc., M .B ., Professor of Pharmacology , Nilratan 

Sircar Medical College, Calcutta and Member , West Bengal Phar 

macy Council . 
27. Dr. Mohan Singh Sethi, M . B . B .S ., P . C .M . S ., Professor of Pharmacology , 

Medical College , Amritsar, Punjab. 
28 . Dr. V . Iswarlah , B .A ., M .R . C .P .. Professor of Pharmacology , Medical Col 

lege , Madras . 
29 . Col. A . N . Chopra , Director of Medical and Health Services, Uttar Pra 

desh , Lucknow . 
30 . Dr, J. K . Saikia , M .B ., D . T . M ., A . M . S . ( Sr.) Director of Health Services, 

Assam , 
31 . Dr. A . R . Govinda Rao , M . B . B . S ., M . Ş . ( Yale ), Professor of Pharmaco 

logy, Andhra Medical College, Visakhapatnam , Andhra . 
32. Shri S . K . Agrawal, M .Sc. ( Tech .), B . Sc. (Hons.), LL . B ., Drugs Inspec 

tor, Madhya Pradesh . 
33. Dr. Govind Achari, M . B . B . S ., Ph . D . (Lond .) Professor of Pharmacology , 

Patna Medical College and Director of Bihar Drugs Control Labora 

tory , Patna. 
34 . Dr. D . K . Santra , M .Pharm . (Ben .) , Ph . D . (Lond.) , Drugs Inspector , 
Orissa . 

[No . F .7- 26 /63 - DS .] 


New Delhi, the 25th June 1954 
S . R . O . 2124 , -- The following draft of a further amendment in the Drugs Rules, 
1945 , which it is proposed to make, after consultation with the Drugs Technical 
Advisory Board , in exercise of the powers conferred by gection 12 of the Drugs 


PART II— SIC. 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


1695 


Act . 1940 ( XXIII of 1940 ) , is published as required by the said section for the 
Information of persons likely to bo affected thereby and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration after the 3rd October 1954. 

2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specifled will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Draft Amendment 
For the proviso to sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 37 of the said Rules , the following 
proviso shall be substituted , namely : 
" Provided that such medicines may be imported in bulk containers by any 

person who holds a licence to manufacture , if such person has 
obtained permission in writing to import such medicines from the 
Hcensing authority at least three months prior to the date of import." 

[No. F .1 -9 / 53 -DS.) 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 19th June 1964 
S . R . O . 2125. - The following draft of certain further amendments in the Drugs 
Rules, 1945 , which it is proposed to make, after consultation with the Drugs 
Technical Advisory Board , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33 of 
Drugs Act, 1940 (XXIII of 1940 ) , is published as required by the said section 
for the information of persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration after the 26th Sep 
tember , 1954 . 

2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 


Draft Amendments 
In the said Rules: 

( 1) after rule 66 , the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" 66 - A . Grant of licence in form 20 or 21 after suspension or cancellation of 
licence under rule 66 . 

( 1 ) Where the licensing authority has passed an order under rule 66 cancel 
ling or suspending a licence granted to any person for non - compliance with any 
conditions of the licence and the order suspending or cancelling the licence has 
not been reversed in appeal, the licensing authority , if it so thinks fit, may , not 
withstanding anything contained in these rules , grant a fresh licence to any 
person satisfying the requirements of sub - rule ( 2 ) , 
( 2 ) The provision of this rule shall apply to such licensee as is 
( a ) a frm and the licence of only one or partners of the firm has been 

suspended or cancelled , and 
( b ) a company or other body corporate or an association of persons 

(whether incorporated or not ) , and a fresh licence is to be granted 
to any Director , manager, secretary, agent or any other officer or 
person concerned with the management of such company or other 
body corporate or an association of persons (whether incorporated 

or not) , whose licence has been suspended or cancelled ." 
( 2 ) after rule 85 , the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 

" 85 - A , Grant of licence in form 25 or 28 after suspension or cancellation of 
licence under rule 85 . 

( 1 ) Where the licensing authority has passed an order under rule 85 cancel 
ling or suspending a licence granted to any person for non - compliance with any 
conditions of the licence and the order suspending or cancelling the licence has 
not been reversed in appeal, the licensing authority, if it so thinks fit. may . not 
withstanding anything contained in these rules , grant a fresh licence to any such 
person satisfying the requirement of sub - rule ( 2 ) . 


1696 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


[ PART II - SEC . 3 


(2 ) The provision of this rule shall apply to such licensee as is 
( a ) a firm and the licence of one or more partners of the firm has been 

suspended or cancelled , and 
( b ) a company, or other body corporate or an association of persons 

(whether incorporated or not) and a fresh licence is to be granted 
to any director, manager, secretary, agent or any other offlcer or 
person concerned with the management of such company or other 
body corporate or an association of persons (whether incorporated 

or not ) , whose licence has been suspended or cancelled ." 
( 3 ) after rule 93, the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 

93 - A . Grant of licence in form 29 after suspension or cancellation of licence 
under rule 93 . 

( 1 ) Where the licensing authority has passed an order under rule 93 cancel 
ling or suspending a licence granted to any person for non - compliance with any 
conditions of the licence and the order suspending or cancelling the licence has 
not been reversed in appeal, the licensing authority , if it so thinks fit, may , not 
withstanding anything contained in these rules, grant a fresh licence to any 
person satisfying the requirement of sub - rule ( 2 ) . 
( 2 ) The provision of this rule shall apply to such licensee as is 
( a ) a firm and the licence of one or more partners of the firm has been 

suspended or cancelled , and 
(b ) a company , or other body corporate or an association of persons 

( whether incorporated or not) and a fresh licence is to be granted 
to any director , manager , secretary , agent or any other officer or 
person concerned with the management of such company or other 
body corporate or an association of persons (whether incorporated 
or not) , whose licence has been suspended or cancelled. " 

[ No . F .1 -15 /51- DS .] 
N . C . MUKERJI, Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 21st June 1954 
S . R . O . 2126 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of section II 
of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1933 (XXVII of 1933) , the Central Government, after con 
sulting the Medical Council of India , hereby directs that the following further amendment shall 
be made in the First Schedule to the said Act, namely > 

In the said Schedule , after the entry relating to the Gujarat University, the following entry 
shall be inserted , namely S 


Medical 
Institution 


Recognised medical 

qualification 


Abbreviation for 

registration 


“ Nagpur Unlversity 


BchelorofMedicine and Bache - M . B . B .S ., Nagpur. This 
lor of Surgery . 

will be a recognised medical 
qualification only when granted 
after the 1st September 1953 " . 


[No. F .17 - 13 /51-MI. ] 
New Delhi, the 28th June 1934 
S . R . O . 2127. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of 
section 11 of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1933 (XXVII of 1933 ) , the Central 
Government, after consulting the Medical Council of India , hereby directs that 
the following further amendments shall be made in the First Schedule to the 
said Act, namely :-- - 
In the said Schedule 
( i) in the entries relating to the University of Bombay , after the entry 

" Master of Surgery . . . . . . . . . . M . S ., Bom ." , the following entry shall 

be inserted , namely : 
" Diploma in Anaesthesla .. .. . . . . . .. . D . A ., Bom ." ; 


PAT TI - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1964 


тив а 


1697 


Рые п- ва. 1 


( ii) in the entries relating to the University of Calcutta, after the entry 

" Master of Obstetrics . . . . . . . . . . . . M . O ., Cal." the following entry 

shall be inserted , namely : - 
" Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery . . . . . .. . . . D .O .M .S ., Cal." ; 
( iii ) against the University of Delhi, after the entry " Bachelor of Medicine 

and Bachelor of Surgery . . . . . . . . M . B ., B . S . (Delhi) " the following 

entry shall be inserted , namely : 
" Diploma in Tuberculosis Diseases . ... . . . . . D . T .D ., Delhi.” 

[No, F . 5 - 6 /53- M . ] 
BABU RAM , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 23rd June 1954 
S . R . O . 2128. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309, and in relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department also by clause ( 5 ) of article 148, of the Constitution , the President, 
after consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General as regards the 
persons referred to above , hereby makes the following rules, namely : 


1. (1 ) These rules may be called the Contributory Health Service Scheme Rules, 
1934 

(2 ) They shall apply to all persons serving in connection with the affairs of 
the Union and having their headquarters in Delhi or New Delhi except the 
following : - 
(a ) all personnel other than Civilian Government Servants , paid from the 

Defence Services Estimates, 
(b ) persons employed in the Railway Services, 
( c ) persons engaged on contract, 
( d ) persons not in the whole -time service of Government, and 

( e ) persons paid out of contingencies. 
( 3) They shall come into force on the 1st July, 1954 , 


2 . Notwithstanding anything contained in the Secretary of State s Services 
(Medical Attendance) Rules, 1938, or the Central Services (Medical Attendance ) 
Rules , 1944, the persons referred to in sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 1 shall be governed , 
in respect of matters relating to medical attendance and treatment, by the provi 
sions of the Memorandum of the Government of India in the Ministry of Health 
No. F .6 ( I ) - 1 / 54 - Hosp ., dated the 1st May , 1964, as amended from time to time. 

[No. F .6 (I) - 30 /54-Hosp.] 
N . B . CHATTERJI, Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 23rd June 1954 
. S . R . O . 2129 . In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
19 of the Evacuee Interest ( Separation ) Act, 1951 (LXIV of 1951 ) , the Central 
Government hereby orders that all cases in respect of composite properties situat 
ed in the district of Hissar pending before the Competent Officer Gurgaon shall 
stand transferred to the Competent Omcer Rohtak . 

[No. 52 ( 10 ) / 53 -Prop .I.] 
L . B . MATHUR , Under Secy . 


1698 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


[ PART II - Src. 8 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 23rd June 1954 
S . R . O . 2130, - In the Indian Merchant Shipping ( Seamen s Employment Office, 
Bombay ) Rules , 1954, published with the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Transport, No. S . R . O . 1611, dated the 15th May , 1954 , 
at pages 829 — 34 , Part II, Section 3 , of the Gazette of India Extraordinary of the 
same date , 

( 1 ) in sub - rule ( v ) of rule 5 , for " terms" read " term .” 
( 2 ) in the first line of the proviso to sub -rule ( iii) of rule 7, for " circum 

stance" read " circumstances " . 
( 3 ) in rule 13 , for " efficient” read " official” . 
( 4 ) in rule 26 , for " name" read " names" . 
(5 ) in sub - rule (11 ) of rule 35 , for " seamen " read " seaman " . 
(6 ) in rule 44 , for " seamen " read " seaman " . 

[No. 14 -MS ( 1) / 53 .) 
S . K . VENKATACHALAM , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 23rd June 1954 
S . R . O . 2131. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Madurai, in the matter of applications under section 
33A of the said Act from Shri Pethor George and others , stevedore workmen 
in Cochin Port. 


Do . . 
Do. - 
Do . . 


SI. D . No . 86 CY 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , MADURAI 

Monday , the oth May 1954 
PRESENT - Sri E . Krishnamurthi, M . A ., B . L ., Industrial Tribunal at Madurai. 

INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No. 82 TO 174 (CENTRAL)/54 

BETWEEN 
Pethor George 

. . Stevedore Worker , I , D . No. 82 ( C ) / 54 ) 
P . Hnosain Ibrahim , 

I. D . No. 83C )/54 ) 
Momman Bastlan 

. D . No. 84 (CS/54 ) 
Bastian Sunny 

( I. D , No. 85C / 54 ) 
Pocker Alayi . 

Do. 
Amaravathi Rammel , 

Do, SI.D . No. 87 /54 
Ouscph Lawrence 

I. D , No . 
Pether Ougcph 

(I.D . No. 89 C )/54 ) 
K . Joseph Marko 

. D .No. 90 (C )/ 54 ) 
E . B . Joseph . 

Do. (I. D . No. 91054 
Raphel Kaipari 

(I.D . No. 92 /54 
Bava Abdulrahim . 

(I.D . No. 93 C / 543 
Makkar Abdulrahim . 

I.D . No. 94154 
Moideen Mohammed 

(I. D . No. 95C / 54 
Avaru Yussuf . 
P . M . Abdulrahim . . 

(I. D . No. 97 C )/ 54 ) 
Moideenkutty Moidu 

(I. D . No. 98C)/ 54 
Chavro Cheri Kunji , 

( I. D . No. 99 C /54 ) 
P . S . Bavo 

( I. D , No . 100 ( C )/ 54 ) 
Achuthan Nanu 

No. 101 C )/54 ) 
Thupran Kodi Aboo . 

No. 1021C ) /54 ) 
P . K . Yussuf . 

No. 103 CY54 ) 
E . M . Abdullah Kutty 

I. D . No . 104 ( Q ),54) 
K . Ismail 

. D . No. 1o5 ( C )/ 54) 
P . B . Hamza . . 

Do. , 

D . No. 106 (C )/34 ) 


Do 
Do . 


Da 
. 


I. D . No. 96 (C )/ 54 


AAAAAAAAAAAAAA 


PART II- SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 8, 1984 


1699 


Stevedore Worker . 


Do . 
Do . 
Do . . 


Do. 
Do . . 


Do. . 


( I. D , 


Do. . 


T . H . Hamza 
Kader Mamminjce 
Loni Lazar 
C . H . Josga 
Thummy Anthony . . 
C . J . Peter 
M . A . Thomman 
K . J. Berli 
Ouso Bastian 
Augustine Joseph 
Varu Chovi 
V . K . Ummer , 
K , B . Joseph . 
Mohamcd Baya 
Moideen Mohamed , 
K . Kunju Marakkar . 
Govindan Krishnan . 
Adimakutty Yusuff . 
C . A . Varghese 
M , Abraham . 
O . S . Thiyyo . 
Şaidunny Kutty Hamza 
P . Bavoo 
E . Mohamadunny 
K . Sulaiman 
M . Kunjcc . 
Maraqsheny Themmy 
Varghese Joseph 
K . Abdulkhader 
Ç . H . Mohamed Kunji 
A . K . Bava i 
Josa Anthony 
Pylee Irani 
Alless Kosma 
P . K . Mohamed Ali 
Ouseph Charlee 
Thomas Jossa . . 
C . R . Joseph 
Vareechan Anthony . 
Anthony Marko 
V . E . Gabrial . 
Louis Ouscph Kutty . 
A . A . Bavou 
A , Madhavan 
P . K . Abdu 
P . K . Khalid 
Kader Abdulrahim 
Raphel Anthony 
Ghavri Jossa . 
Maliyakkal Jossa 
Vathamakal Avara 
A . Baya .. 
A . K . Kunji Pulla 
P . A . Sulaiman 
A . P . Varghese 
P . Aboo . 
Rockey Sabastian 
K . Parecd 
Ahmad Moideen Kutty 
C . Parameswaran 
S . M . Mammunji 
P . K . Abdulrahim . 
M . Mohamed Ali 
Abdulrahim Moidunny 
K . Hassan . 
Mohamed Bava 
C . M . Moosaa 
Alikunji Parced 


AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 


Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do . . 
Do . . 


( I. D . No. 107( C ) / 54 ) 
I. D . No. 108 C )/54 ) 
I. D . No. 109 (C )/ 54 ) 
I. D . No . 110 ( C )/ 54) 
( I. D . No. III( C ) / 54 ) 

I. D . No. 112 C ) 54 ) 
( I. D . No. 113 ( C )/54) 

I. D . No. 114 ( C ) / 54 ) 
(I. D , No. 115 C )/54 ) 
( I. D . No. 116 ( C )/ 54 ) 
I. D , No. 117 C ) / 34 
I. D . No. 118 C )/ 54 ) 
I. D . No. 119 ( C )/ 54 ) 
(I. D . No. 120 C )/ 54 ) 

I. D . No. 121( C ) /54 ) 
( I. D . No. 122(254 ) 

No. 123 (0 ) 54 ) 
I. D . No. 124 ( C ) / 54 ) 
( I. D . No. 125 C )/ 54 ) 

I. D . No. 126C ) / 54 ) 
(I. D . No. 127 ( C )/54 ) 
( I. D , No. 128 ( C ) /54 ) 
(I. D , No. 129C)/ 54 ) 
( I. D , No. 130 ( C )/ 54 ) 
( I . D . No , 131 ( C )/ 54 ) 
( 1. D . No. 132 ( C )/ 54 ) 
( I. D . No. 133 ( C )/ 54 ) 
( I. D , No. 134 C ) / 54 ) 
(ID . No. 135 ( C ) / 54 ) 
I. D , No. 136 ( C )/ 34 ) 
I. D . No . 137 C )/ 34 ) 
I. D . No. 138 ( C ) / 54 ) 
(I . D , No. 139 ( C )/ 54 ) 

I . D .No. 140 C )/ 54 ) 
(I. D , No. 141 ( C ) 54 ) 
(I . D . No . 142 ( C / 54 ) 
( I. D . No. 143 ( C ) / 54 ) 

I. D . No. 144 ( C ) / 54 ) 
( I. D . No. 145 ( C ) /54 ) 

I. D , No. 146 ( C ) ( 54 ) 
( 1. D . No. 147 ( C ) / 54 ) 
( I. D . No. 148 ( C )/ 54 ) 
(I. D . No . 149 ( C )/ 54 ) 
( I. D . No . 150 ( C ) / 54 ) 
( I. D , No. 151 / C ) /545 
(ID . No. 152 ( C )/54 ) 

I. D , No. 153( C ) /54 ) 
(I.D . No. 154 C )/54 ) 
I. D . No. 155 C )/54 ) 
I. D . No, 156C)/ 54 ) 
I. D . No. 157C )/ 54 ) 
( I. D . No. 158 C )/54) 
I. D . No . 159 ( C )/ 54) 
I. D . No. 160C / 54 ) 
I. D . No. 161/ C )/ 54 ) 
( I. D , No. 162 ( C ) / 54 ) 
( I . D . No. 163 C )/54 ) 
I. D . No . 164 (C ) / 54 ). 
I. D . No . 165 ( C ) /54 ) 
CI. D . No . 166 ( C ) / 54 ) 
I . D . No . 167 ( C ) / 54 ) 
I . D . No . 168 ( C ) /54 ) 
( I . D . No. 169 C ) / 54 ) 

I. D , No. 170 C ) /54 ) 
( I. D . No. 171( C )/ 54 ) 

I. D . No. 172 ( C )/ 54) 
( I. D . No. 173( C )/54 ) 

I. D . No. 174 ( C )/ 54 ) 
Petitioners. 


Thomosephathody 


Do . • 
Do . . 


Do. 


1700 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


(PART II SEC . 3 


AND 


Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s Sons Stevedores, Mattancherry- - Ist Respondent. 
Sorabji and Company , Stevedores , Mattuncherry , Cochin - 2nd Respondent . 

AWARD 


By L . R . No, 2 ( 345 ) I dated 13 - 10 - 1952 , the Government of India , Minist y of Labour, New 
Delhi, referred to inc for adjudication the dispute between certain employers at Port of Cochin 
and workmen working in the Port. 

These several petitions I . D . Nos , 82 to 174 (Central) of 1954 , have been filed by several 
stevedore workers against Messrs. Darabshaw B . Cursetjce s Sons and Sorabji and Company , 
In the main reference No. 18 (Central) of 1951, dated 19th July 1951, the first opposite party is 
emplow - No. 15 and the second employer No. II . 


1 3 . The allegations in the several petitions are practically the same and iden 
tical language is used . They are to the effect , that the several petitioners are mem 
bers of the Cochin Thuramukha Thozhilali Union which is a party to the main 
- reference I. D . No . 18 (Central) of 1951, that Messrs. Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s 
Sons, the first respondent, were the stevedores of the Prince Line Steamers and 
were employing the several petitioners and other steyedore workers, that the 
second opposite party Messrs , Sorabjee and Company is the successor of the 
first opposite party as the steyedore of Prince Line Steamers, that the second 
opposite party instead of employing the several petitioners as stevedore work 
men engaged other men on 9th December , 1953 , that the action of the second 
opposite party is a contravention of the terms of the award dated 4th January , 
1962 and also a violation of the Status Quo ante during the pendency of the 
adjudication of I. D . No. 18 ( Central ) of 1951, and that the workers must be 
directed to be reinstated , and that they must be paid compensation for the loss 
sustained . 


4 . In the petitions in I, D . Nos. 82 to 91 ( Central) of 1954 it is further alleged 
that the petitioners had been permanently employed by the first opposite party as 
stevedore workmen . 

5 . No counter was Alled on behalf of the first opposite party Messrs . Darab 
shaw B . Cursetjjee s Sons. 

6 . Counters were filed on behalf of the second respondent Messrs . Sorabji and 
Company , and they contain practically identical allegations. It is alleged in the 
counters , that the several petitioners were never workmen in Messrs . Sorabji 
and Company , that they had nothing to do with the first respondent, that they 
are not the successors in interest of the first respondent, that Messrs Sorabji and 
Company obtained stevedoring work of the Prince Line Steamers on independent 
contract, that the stevedore workmen are not a known body of men but a floating 
body of workmen working for different employers, that they are casual workers 
engaged on a day to day basis , that they cannot claim any work as a matter of 
right, that there is no contravention of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
and that the several petitioners are not entitled to any relief . 
7 . The issues that arise for determination in the several petitions are : 
( 1 ) Whether the respective petitioners are the workmen of the second res 

pondents ? 
( 2 ) Whether the second respondent is the successor in interest of the first 

respondent and bound by the arrangements entered into by the first 

respondent ? 
( 3 ) Whether there is a contravention of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 

Act ? 
(4 ) To what relief, if any, are the several petitioners entitled ? 


8 . Issues Nos. 1 and 2 . - By L . R . 2 ( 345 ) I dated 13th October, 1952 the Govern 
ment of India , Ministry of Labour, New Delhi, referred for adjudication the dis 
pute between certain emloyers at Port Cochin and workers working in the port. 


9 . In the first reference, the names of only 22 employers were shown as parties. 
There was a second reference on 8th November, 1952 and this included 172 new 
employers . The first respondent M / s . Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s Sons is employer 
No . 15 in the Arst reference and the second respondent Messrs Sorabji and Com 
pany is employer No. 11 . 


PART II- SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


1701 


10. The several petitioners have alleged that they are members of the Cochin 
Thuramukha Thozhilali Union a party to the reference that they were employed 
as stevedore workmen under the Arst respondent who was doing stevedoring work 
for the Prince Line Steamers, till about the end of November , that thereafter 
the second respondent has been doing the stevedoring work of the Prince Line 
Sieamers , and that the latter dispensed with the services of the several petitioners 
who were till then working as stevedore workers for the first respondent. It is 
alleged , that section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act has been contravened and 
that the second respondent is liable in law for unlawful termination of services, 
and for compensation for forced uncmployment. 

11 . The first respondent has not chosen to contest the matter . 

12. In the Arst place , the defence raised on behalf of the second respondent is , 
that the several petitioners were not their stovedoring workers at any time. It is 
not disputed that Messrs. Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s Sons were doing stevedoring 
work for the Prince Line Steamers till about the end of November 1953. There 
after , Sorabji and Company are the stevedoring contractors . The contention on 
behalf of the workers is , that cven though Messrs . Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s 
Sons ceased to be the contractors for the Prince Line Sieamers on 30th November 
1953, they became the workmen of the second respondent Messrs . Sorabji and 
Company becausc the latter are the successors, in interest of Messrs. Darabshaw 
B . Cursetjee s Sons. It is argucd , that Messrs. Sorabji and Company took over 
every obligation of Messrs , Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s Sons, A . number of documents 
have been produced in this conncction . Ex . W . I. is a letter dated 4th March , 1952 
written by the first respondent to the Secretary of the Cochin Thuramukha 
Thozhilali Union , stating, that no gangs had been engaged on board ship , Ex . W . 2 
to W . 13 aro letters that passed between the Secretary of the Cochin Thuramukha 
Thozhilali Union and Darabshaw B . Cursetjce s Sons in 1951, and they show 
that the latter were doing stovedoring work , and getting workers from the 
Cochin Thuramukha Thozhilali Union . Ex . W . 13 , dated 24th September, 1953 
shows, that Peter George, the petitioner in I. D . No. 82 of 1954 was appointed 
winchman with effect from 15th September , 1953 for work in steamers for which 
Messrs. Darabshaw B . Cursetjec s Sons were stevedores. It is expressly stated 
therein that when their license was cancelled by the Port, the employees services 
would be terminated with immediate effect . 

13 . Granting (without admitting ) that the several petitioners were workmen 
doing stevedoring work for Darabshaw B . Cursctjee s Sons, I fail to see how 
they can claim to be workmen under the second respondent. The second respon 
dent came on the scene as stevcdore for the Prince Line Steamers only at the 
end of 1953 . It is hardly possible to say , that Messrs. Sorabji and Company are 
the successors in interest of Messrs . Darabshaw B . Cursetjec s Sons, who were 
doing work as stcvcdoring contractors for the Prince Line Steamers on the 
strength of a contract of their own . Obviously , this contract was put an end to 
by the Steamer company. The latter appointed Messrs. Sorabji and Company as 
their stevedore contractors in 1953. Messrs. Sorabji and Company became Steve 
dore contractors of the Prince Line Steamers on the strength of their own inde 
pendent contract. They had nothing to do with the contract that existed between 
the Steamship Company and Messrs . Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s Sons. They are 
in no way concerned with the agreement which existed between them . Ex . M . I. is 
the copy of a communication by Matheson Bosanquet and Company agents of the 
Prince Line Steamers, and it shows, that Messrs. Sorabji and Company were 
employed as stevedore contractors for the Prince Line Limited . The Prince 
Line Limited , independently appointed the latter as their stevedore contractors . 
In the above circumstances , I am constrained to reject the contention on behalf 
of the petitioners, that Messrs. Sorabji and Company are the successors in interest 
of Messrs . Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s Sons. 

14 The several petitioners were never the workmen of Messrs . Sorabji and 
Company . It is not alleged in the several petitions that they ever worked as 
stevedore workers for Messrs . Sorabji and Company. The only way in which the 
second respondent is sought to be made liable is only the theory of Messrs. 
Sorabji and company being the successors in interest of Messrs . Darabshaw B . 
Cursetjee s Sons. When this is not established it follows, that the several peti 
tioners can have no remedy against the second respondent, I find , that Messrs . 
Sorabji and Company are not the successors in interest of Darabshaw B . Curset 
jee s Sons, and that the seycral petitioners were never the workmen of Messrs . 
Sorabji & Company at any time and that Messrs . Sorabji and Company are not 
bound by any arrangements entered into by the first respondent, 

15 . Issue No. 3 . - - The next contention on behalf of the petitioners is , that even 
assuming that the Prince Line Limited entered into an independent contract with 


1702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


[ PART II — Sec. 3 


Messrs. Sorabii and Company , still the second respondent is guilty of violation of 
section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act because there is a contravention of the 
terms of the award , dated 4th January , 1952 and the status quo ante . Under 
section 33 it is laid down , that no employer shall alter to the prejudice of the 
workmen concerned in such dispute , the conditions of service applicable to them 
immediately before the commencement of the proceedings. The several petitioners 
were not the workmen of Messrs. Şorabji and Company at any time prior to the 
date of the petitions. In the statement of demands fled on behalf of the Cochin 
Thuramukha Thozhilali Union , there is reference to the conditions of service , 
that existed prior to the proceedings. It is alleged therein , that there was no 
security of employment, that there was the contract system existing in Port 
Cochin , that the contractors constantly changed , that there was no security of em 
ployment even though some workers were being often engaged by the same em 
ployer , that a muster roll system of registering labour should be introduced , and 
that sometimes workers were thrown out of employment for no fault of theirs. 
In the statement of demands flled by the Cochin Port Cargo Labour Union , it is 
alleged, that irregular and casual employment is the most serious problem in the 
Port of Cochin , that there was a floating population of chronic unemployed 
labour, that others were able to get only a few days employment, that a decasuali 
sation scheme should be introduced , that the contract system which had all the 
disadvantages of a casual system should be abolished , and that a labour pool 
should be established . It is also mentioned that work should be given in rotation 
to the workmen . From the allegations referred to , it is perfectly clear , that there 
was no such thing as security of employment prior to the reference . No workmen 
could say that he was the employee of any particular employer. There was casual 
employment. Though it may be that some employers engaged some workmen 
continuously , there was no continuity of employment. The entire body of steve 
dore workmen was a kind of undetermined , floating body obtaining employment 
from time to time as and when there was work . In . these circumstances, it is 
difficult to hold , that there were definite conditions of service prior to the refer 
ence . On the other hand , the workmen wanted special changes to be introduced , 
and especially wanted suitable provision for work to be given in rotation , so that 
they might have some kind of security of employment. In this connection , the 
decision in 1952 , II, L . L . J ., 470 Bank Line India Limited , and their workmen , is 
important. There, the question arose with reference to tally clerks, It was held , 
that no tally clerk was in the permanent employment of any employer, and that 
no warranty of service or lien can be implied . That decision is applicable to the 
facts of this case . It cannot be said , that there was guarantee of service so far 
as any of the petitioners was concerned . There is no introduction of any change 
in the conditions of service, that existed before the commencement of the pro 
ceeding . It follows, that section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act has not been 
contravened in any manner by the second respondent. 

16 . So far as the first respondent is concerned , it is clear, that Messrs . Darab 
shaw B . Cursetjee s Sons have ceased to be the steyedoring contractors for Prince 
Line Limited. There is no satisfactory proof that they are doing steyedoring work 
for any other steamship company . In the above circumstances , no relief can be 
awarded against them . They are not proved to be guilty of violation of section 
38 of the Industrial Disputes Act. It became impossible to employ the peti 
tioners because they lost their contract with the Prince Line Limited . I find , that 
the 1st respondent has not contravened Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

17. Issue No . 4 . — The petitioners are not entitled to any relief in these petitions. 

18 . All the several petitions are dismissed. There will be no order as to coste . 
An award is passed accordingly . 
Dated at Madurai, this the 10th day of May 1954 . 

E . KRISHNAMURTHI, 

Industrial Tribunal at Madurai, 

List of Witnesses Examined 
For the Petitioners 

W . W . 1 — Biravu Işmall. 

W . W .2 . - M . K , Raghavan . 
For the Respondents 

M . W . 1 - C . P . Ramachandra Menon , 
M . W .2 - - Adam Khader, 


PART II- SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 8, 1964 


1703 


List of Documents marked 
For the petitioners , 

Ex . W . 1. - Letter dated 4th May 1952 from Messrs . Darabshaw B , Cursetjee s 
Sons, Mattancherry to the Secretary , Cochin Thuramukha Thozhilali Union , 
Cochin . 

Ex . W . 2.- - Letter dated 14th August, 1951 from the President, Cochin Thura 
mukha Thozhilali Union , Cochin to M / s. Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s Sons, Mat 
tancherry . 

Ex . W . 3 . - Letter dated 25th July , 1951 from M / 8. Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s 
Sons, Mattancherry , to the Secretary , Cochin Thuramukha Thozhilali Union . 
Cochin . 

Ex. W .4 . - Letter dated 30th July , 1951 from Messrs. Darabshaw B . Cursctjee s 
Sons, Mattancherry , to the Secretary , Cochin Thuramukha Thozhilali Union , 
Cochin . 

ExW . 5 , - Letter dated 14th August, 1951 from Messrs . Darabshaw B . Curset 
jee s Sons, Mattancherry , to the Secretary , Cochin Thuramukha Thozhilali Union , 
Cochin , 

Ex . W .6 . - Letter from the Secretary , Cochin Thuramukha Thozhilali Union , 
Cochin , to M / s. Darabshaw B , Cursetjee s Sons, Mattancherry . 

Ex . W . 7. - - Letter dated 17 August, 1951 from M / s . Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s 
Sons, Cochin , to the President, Cochin Thuramukha Thozhilali Union , Cochin . 

Ex. W .8 . — Letter dated 17th August, 1951 from Abdul Khader to the manage 
ment, Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s Sons, Cochin . 

Ex. W . 9 . - Letter dated 17th August, 1951 from the Secretary , Cochin Thura 
mukha Thozhilali Union , Cochin , to the manager , Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s Sons, 
Mattancherry . 

Ex . W . 10 . — Letter dated 18th September, 1951 from M / s . Darabshaw B , Curset 
jee s Sons, Mattancherry , to the Secretary , Cochin Thuramukha Thozhilali Union , 
Mattencherry . 

Ex . W .11. — Letter dated 1st September , 1951 from Messrs. Darabshaw B . Cur 
getjee s Sons, Mattancherry, to the Secretary , Cochin Thuramukha Thozhilali Union , 
Mattancherry . 

Ex . W . 12 . — Letter dated 9th September , 1951 from the President, Cochin 
Thuramukha Thozhilali Union , Mattancherry , to Messrs . Darabshaw B . Curset 
jee s Sons , Cochin . 

Ex. W . 13. — Letter dated 24th September , 1963 from Messrs. Darabshaw B . Cur 
setjee s Sons, Cochin , to Peter George , Cochin . 
For the Respondents 

Ex. M . 1. - Order dated 30th November 1953 given by Matheson , Boşanquet and 
Company Limited , Agents , Prince Line Limited, to Messrs . Sorabji and Company , 
Cochin , appointing them as their contractors . 


E . KRISHNAMURTHI, 
Industrial Tribunal at Madurai. 

[ No. LR . 2 (345 ) . ] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 23rd June 1954 
S . R . O . 2132 - - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to Grindlays Bank Limited and 
their workmen regarding the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the dis 
pute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby refers the said dispute for , adjudication to the Industrial Tribu 
nal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7 of the said Act. 


1704 


1704 _ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA,JULY 3,1954 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


[Par 11–Sec. 


[PART II — SEC . 3 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the Grindlays Bank , Limited , should re - instate in its service , and / or 
pay any compensation to , Sarvashri Baldev Sahai, Balmokand Kapur, Ramsukh 
Sharma, I, S . Aurora , Premchand Khanna, K . B , L . Bhatnagar, Panna Lal, 
Inder Raj Sahgal, and Amarnath , ex -employees of the Bank . 

[ No . LR - 100 ( 83 ).J 
P . S . EASWARAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 23rd June 1954 
S . R . O . 2133 . — Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the employees 
in the Repairs and Maintenance Workshop belonging to the Overseas Communi 
cations Service under the Government of India in the Ministry of Communica 
tions are in receipt of benefits substantially similar or superior to the benefits 
provided under the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (XXXIV of 1948 ) ; 

Now , Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby exempts the said factory from all the pro 
visions of the said Act for a period of one year . 

[No. SS.138 ( 64 )- 1 


New Delhi, the 24th June 1954 
S . R . O . 2134 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of 
section 1 of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (XXXIV of 1948 ) , the 
Central Government hereby appoints the 11th day of July , 1954 , as the date on 
which , the provisions of Chapter IV ( except sections 44 and 45 thereof which have 
already been brought into force ) , Chapter V and Chapter VI [except sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 76 and sections 77, 78, 79 and 81 thereof , which have already been 
brought into forcel, of the said Act shall come into force in the area within the 
limits of the Corporation of the City of Nagpur in the State of Madhya Pradesh . 

[ No. S $ . 121 (73 ) . ] 


New Delhi, the 25th June 1954 
S . R . O . 2135 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian 
Dock Labourers Act, 1934 (XIX of 1934 ) , the Central Government hereby directs 
that the following further amendment shall be made in the Indian Dock Labour 
ers Regulations, 1948 , the same having been previously published as required by 
section 7 of the said Act, namely :--- 
In regulation 26 of the said Regulations , for the words and figures " In this 

Part, except in Regulation 28 " , the words and figures In this Part 
save as otherwise expressly defined in Regulation 28 " shall be 
inserted , 

[No. Fac .38 ( 28 ) . ] 
P . D . GAIHA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 29th June 1954 
S . R . O . 2136 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Coal 
Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 (XLVI of 1948 ) , the Central 
Government hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made 
in the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme published with the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, No. PF . 15 ( 5 ) / 48 , dated the 11th 
December , 1948 namely 

For clause ( i) of sub - paragraph ( 5 ) of paragraph 66 of the said Scheme, the 
following clause shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( i) by postal money order at the cost of the payee , or at any other cost 
if so determined by the Central Government, or " . 

[No. PF - 2 ( 43 ) / 83.] 
TEJA SINGH SAHNI, Under Secy . 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3 , 1954 


1705 


A 


REGISTRAR JOINT STOCK COMPANIES 

NOTICE 
Madras, the 12th June 1954 

NOTICE PURSUANT TO SECTION 247 ( 5 ) . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and The Sahayanidhi ( Thiru 

mangalam ) Limited . 
S . R . O . 2137, - - With reference to the notice dated 18th January 1954 published at 
page 305 of Part II, Section 3 , of the Gazette of India , dated 6th February 1954 , 
the above company not having shown cause to the contrary within the time fixed , 
the name of the company has under section 247 ( 5 ) of the Indian Companies Act, 
1913 , been struck off the register . 

Madras, the 22nd June 1954 

NOTICE PURSUANT TO SECTION 247 ( 5 ) 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and the Crescent Social Labour 

Transports Limited . 
S . R . O . 2138. - -With reference to the notice dated 1st March , 1954, published 
on page 560 of Part II , Section 3 , of the Gazette of India , dated 20th March , 1954 , 
the above company not having shown cause to the contrary within the time fixed , 
the name of the company has, under section 247 ( 5 ) of the Indian Companies 
Act, 1913 , been struck off the register , 

[No. C . 3793 / 53. ] 
Madras , the 23rd June 1954 

PURSUANT TO SECTION 247 ( 3 ) 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and the National Development 

Corporation (Madras ) Limited . 
S . R . O . 2139 . — Whereas communications addressed to the National Development 
Corporation (Madras ) Limited at its registered office remain unanswered or 
returned undelivered by the post office . 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the National Development Corporation 
(Madras ) Limited is not carrying on business or is not in operation . 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies 
Act, 1913 , that unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of 
three months from the date of this notice, the name of the said company will be 
struck off the register and the said company will be dissolved . 

[ No. K .2762 / 82. ] 
Madras, the 24th June 1954 

NOTICE PURSUANT TO SECTION 247 (5 ) 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and the Navajeevan Press 

Limited . 
S . R . O . 2140. - -With reference to the notice No . Ş . R . O . 637 , dated 3rd February 
1954, published on page 402 of Part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of Indra , dated 
20th February 1954 , the above company not having shown cause to the contrary 
within the time fixed , the name of the company has under section 247 (5 ) of the 
Indian Companies Act, 1913 , been struck off the register . 

[No , K . 1670 / 53 . ] 
V . V . RANGANATHAN , 
Asstt. Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, Madras. 


Cuddapah , the 16th June 1954 

PURSUANT TO SECTION 247 (3 ) . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and The New Bharat Chit Fund 

Trade Corporation Limited , 
S . R . O . 2141. — Whereas communications addressed to the New Bharat Chit 
Fund Trade Corporation Limited at its registered Office remain unanswered . 


1706 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3 , 1954 [PART II - Sec . 3 

= = = SSSR 
And whereas at the time of a visit on 30th March 1954 , there was no trace 
of the company at its registered office . 

And whereas it is stated in your letter dated 7th January 1954, that the New 
Bharat Chit Fund Trade Corporation Limited Cuddapah is not carrying on 
business and is not in operation . 

Notice is hereby given , pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies 
Act , 1913 , that unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of 
three months from the date of this notice , the name of the said company will 
be struck off the register and the said company will be dissolyed , 

[No. 59 - K /54 .] 
( $ d .) S . SANKARANARAYANA PATNAIK , 
Asstt. Registrar of Joint Stock Companies , 

Cuddapah . 


Patna , the 18th June 1954 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and Kishanganj Electric 

Supply Company Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2142 . - Whereas in pursuance of sub - sections ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of section 
247 of the Indian Companies Act , 1913 two letters were issued to the Managing 
Director of the Kishanganj Electric Supply Co . Ltd ., Kishanganj ( Purnea ) a 
duly registered and incorporated company under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 
and in rcply thereto the managing director says that the company is not function 
ing and will not function in future, I do hereby give notice under section 247 ( 3 ) 
of the Act that the name of the company will, unless causc is shown to the con 
trary , be struck off the register at the expiration of three months from the date 
of this notice , 

[No. 438 /54. ] 
S . P . SINHA, 

Registrar, 


Calcutta , the 18th June 1954 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Warden of Industries Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2143. - Notice is hereby given that the name of Warden of Industrles 
Ltd . of 157 / B , Dharamtala Street , Calcutta, has this day been struck off the 
Register and that the Company is dissolyed . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Deluxe Tailoring Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2144,- - Notice is hereby given that the name of Deluxe Talloring Ltd . of 
1 / 2 , Moti Sil Street , Calcutta , has this day been struck off the Register and that 
the Company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act , 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Duars Friends Poultry Farms Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2145 .-- Notice is hereby given that the name of Duars Friends Poultry 
Farms Ltd . of Shibbarihat, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, has this day been struck off 
the Register and that the Company is dissolved . 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Bengal Planning Corporation Ltd . 
S . R . O 2146 . — Notice is hereby given that the name of Bengal Planning Corpo 
ration Ltd . of 26 Strand Road, Calcutta , has this day becn struck off the Register 
and that the Company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Enen & Co . Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2147. - Notice is hereby given that the name of Enen & Co., Ltd . of 45 . 
Dum Dum Road , 24 - Parganas, has this day been struck off the Register and that 
the Company is dissolved . 


PART II— SEC. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JULY 8, 1954 


ТЕ 


1707 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Bengal Leather Works Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2148. - Notice is hereby given that the name of Bengal Leather Works 
Ltd . of Motijheel Avenue, Dum Dum , 24 - Parganas , has this day been struck off 
the Register and that the Company is dissolved. 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of India College & Commerce Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2149 - Notice is hereby given that the name of India College & Com 
merce Ltd . of 14, Bentinck Street, Calcutta , has this day been struck off the Re 
gister and that the Company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Enterprisers ( 1940 ) Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2150 . -- Notice is hercby given that the name of Enterprisers ( 1940 ) Ltd , 
of 8 , Royal Exchange Place , Calcutta , has this day been struck off the Register 
and that the Company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Bharat Publications Ltd . 
S . R . O , 2151. - Notice is hereby given that the name of Bharat Publications 
Ltd , of 88A , Mechuabazar Street, Calcutta , has this day been struck off the Register 
and that the Company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Kingsby Industries Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2152 . - Notice is hereby given that the name of Kingsby Industries Ltd . 
of 21B , Canning street, Calcutta , has this day been struck off the Register and 
that the Company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companics Act , 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Bhandari Opera Lid . 


S .R . O , 2153 . - Notice is hereby given that the name of Bhandari Opera Ltd . of 
356 / 2 , Upper Chitpur Road, Calcutta , has this day been struck off the Register 
and that the Company is dissolved . 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Elton Chemical Works Ltd . 


S . R . O . 2154 . - - Notice is hereby given that the name of Elton Chemical Works 
Ltd . of 1 British Indian Street , Calcutta, has this day been struck off the Register 
and that the Company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Compapies Act , 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Aryasthan Salt Works Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2155 . - - Notice is hereby given that the name of Aryasthan Salt Works 
Ltd . of 5 & 6 , Hare Strect, Calcutta, has this day been struck off the Register 
and that the Company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Swastika Printers & Publishers Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2156 ,- -Notice is hereby given that the name of Swastika Printers & 
Publishers Ltd . of 40 , Raja Rajballav St., P . O . Baghbazar Calcutta , has this day 
been struck off the Register and that the Company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Indo British Commercial Syndicate Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2157. - Notice is hereby given that the name of Indo British Commercial 
Syndicate Ltd . of 22 , Strand Road , Calcutta , has this day been struck off the 
Register and that the company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act , 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Bengal Tannery Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2158 . . -Notice is hereby given that the name of Bengal Tannery Ltd ., 
of 16 , Stephen House , Dalhousie, Square, Calcutta , has this day been struck off 
the Register and that the Company is dissolved. 


1708 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


[PART II — SEC . 3 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Workers Trust Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2159 .-- Notice is hereby given that the name of Workers Trust Ltd . 
of 5 & 6 , Hare Street , Calcutta , hus this day been struck off the Register and that 
the Company is dissolved , 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act , 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Eastern Glass Works Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2160 . -- Notice is hereby given that the name of Eastern Glass Works 
Ltd . of 55 , Chaulpatty Road , Belighata , Calcutta, has this day been struck off the 
Register and that the Company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Ganeshji Ltd . 
S .R . O , 2161. — Notice is hereby given that the name of Ganeshji Ltd . of 164 , 
Harish Mukherjee Road , Calcutta , has this day been struck off the Register and 
that the Company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Mappa & Co. Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2162. - Notice is hereby given that the name of Mappa & Co . Ltd . C / o . 
Karyakari Viswanidyalaya, Arbalia , 24 - Parganas , has this day been struck off 
the Register and that the Company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of H , Rahman & Sons Ltd , 


S . R . O . 2163. - Notice is hereby given that the name of H , Rahman & Sons Ltd , 
of 32 / A , Beniapukur Lane, Calcutta , has this day been struck off the Register and 
that the Company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act , 1913 (VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Deo & Mukherjee Ltd . 
S . R .O . 2164 . - - Notice is hereby given that the name of Deo & Mukherjee Ltd . 
of 8 , Dalhousie Square, East, Calcutta, has this day been struck off the Register 
and that the Company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913 ) and in the matter 

of Maharani Textiles Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2165 . - - Notice is hereby given that the name of Maharani Textiles Ltd . 
of 14, Clive Street, Calcutta , has this day been struck off the Register and that the 
Company is dissolved . 

B . P . ROY , 
Registrar of Companies, West Bengal. 


Nagpur , the 19th June 1954 
NOTICE UNDER SECTION 247 ( 4 ) OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT VII OF 1913 . 

S . R . O . 2166. — Whereas I have reasonable cause to believe that no person is 
acting as the llquilator of the Indian Commercial Trading Company Ltd . 
Dhantoli, Nagpur, since 20th May 1953, as I am not receiving any reply from 
him to my communications and reminders from that date , I, hereby give notice 
under Section 247 ( 4 ) of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913 , that the name 
of the said company will be struck off the register of companies kept in my 
office and that the company will be dissolved, at the expiration of three months 
from the date of this notice unless the Liquidator or the company shows cause 
to the contrary , 

[No. 610 / 54.] 
Nagpur , the 21st June 1954 
NOTICE UNDER SECTION 247 ( 5 ) OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT 
S . R . O . 2167 . — With reference to the notice , dated 11th March 1954 published 
on page 606 of Part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India , dated 27th March 1954 
vidē S . R . O . 991 under Section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913 , 
it is hereby notified that under the provisions of Section 247 ( 5 ) of the said Act, 
the company known as Netaji Publishing House Ltd ., Nagpur has been struck 
off the Register. 

[No. 628 / 54. 7 


PART II -- Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


1709 


NOTICE UNDER SECTION 247 ( 5 ) OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT 
S . R . O . 2168. - With reference to the notice, dated 26th December 1953 publish 
ed under section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies Act , VII of 1913 on page 190 
of Part II , Section 3 of the Gazette of India , dated 23rd January 1954 , vide 
S .R . O . 250 , the Company known as Kaskurao Limited , Akola not having shown 
cause to the contrary within the time fixed , the name of the said company under 
Section 247 ( 5 ) of the said Act , has been struck off the Register . 

(No. 625 / 54 , 1 
NOTICE: UNDER SECTION 247 ( 5 ) OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT 
S . R . O . 2169. — With reference to the notice , dated 4th December 1953 published 
under section 247 ( 4 ) of the Indian Companies Act . VII of 1913 on page 410 of 
of Part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India , dated 20th February 1954 , vide 
S . R . O . 684, the Company known as “ Om Shiv Company Ltd ., Kamptee not having 
shown cause to the contrary within the time fixed , the name of the said company 
has under Section 247 ( 5 ) of the said Act , has been struck off the Register . 

[No. 622- A /54. ) 
B . G . GHATE , Registrar , 
Joint Stock Companies , Madhya Pradesh . 

Lucknow , the 21st June 1954 
S . R . O 2170. - In compliance with the provisions of clause ( 5 ) of section 247 
of the Indian Companics Act VII of 1913 , notice is hereby given that in pursuance 
of clause ( 3 ) of the aforesaid section the name of Kalakar Limited has , after the 
expiration of three months from the date of the notice, dated 22nd February 1954 , 
published in the Government of India Gazette , Part II , Section 3 , dated 6th March 
1954, been struck of the registers of companles kept in my office . 

[No. 1142 / II - 2347.) 
S . B . BANERJI, Registrar , 
Joint Stock Companies , Lucknow , U .P . 


Madurai, the 21st June 1954 

PURSUANT TO SECTION 247 ( 3 ) OF THE ACT 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act , 1913 and Mohan Industries ( Sattur ) 


of the Indian 


Limite the 6th April 


1. This office letter No. 293 - K / 54 dated the 6th April 1954 . 
2 . This office letter No. 293 - K /54 dated the 13th May 1954 , 

S . R . O . 2171, - Whereas a visit paid on 7th August 1953 to the registered office 
of the Mohan Industries (Sattur ) Limited has revealed the fact that the company 
is not working thereat; 

2 . Whereas the registered cover addressed to the company on 20th October 
1953 has been returned undelivered by the post office ; 

3 . Whereas no reply has yet been received to the references quoted above; 

4 . Whereas it appears accordingly that Mohan Industries ( Sattur) Limited 
is not carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies 
Act, 1913 that unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiry of three 
months from the date of this notice, the name of the said company will be struck 
off the register and the said company will be dissolved . 

[No. 293 - K / 54 . ] 
T. V . SUBBA RAO , Asstt. Registrar, 

Joint Stock Companies , 

Ramanathapuram . 


Jullundur, the 21st June 1954 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Asiatic Agencies 

Ltd ., Ambala Cantt. 
S . R . O . 2172 . — Whereas the communications addressed to the Asiatic Agencies 
Ltd ., under sections 247 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the Indian Companies Act 1913 have 
remained unanswered ; 


1710 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3 , 1954 


[ PART II - SEC, 3 


And whereas it appears accordingly that the Asiatic Agencies Ltd ., is not 
carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to scction 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act, that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months 
from the date of this notice, the name of the said company will be struck off 
the register and the said company will be dissolved . 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Bharat Metal 

Sales Ltd ., Jullundur City . 
S . R . O . 2173 . — Whercas the communication addressed to Bharat Metal Sales 
Ltd ., under section 247 ( 1 ) has remained unanswered and under section 247 ( 2 ) 
is returned undelivered by Post Office : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Bharat Metal Sales Ltd ., is not 
carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act , that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice , the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 


Ir. the matter of the Indian Companles Act VII of 1913 and of Brij Raj Chamber of 

Commerce Ltd ., Hodal. 
S . R . O . 2174 . - Whereas the communications addressed to Brij Raj Chamber 
of Commerce Ltd ., under sections 247 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the Indian Companies Act , 
1913 have remained unanswered : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Brij Raj Chamber of Commerce 
Ltd , is not carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act, that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of thrce months from 
the date of this notice, the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of Beekay Industries 

Ltd ., Ambala . 
S . R . O . 2178. -- Whereas the communication addressed to Beekay Industries 
Ltd ., under section 247 ( 1 ) has remained unanswered and under section 247 ( 2 ) 
is returned undelivered by Post Office : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Beekay Industries Ltd ., is not 
carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act , that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice, the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of Free Nation Lid ., 

Ambala Cantt . 
S . R . O . 2176 . - Whereas the communications addressed to the Free Nation 
Ltd ., under sections ( 247 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 have 
remained unanswered : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Free Nation Ltd ., is not carrying 
on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act, that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice , the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Bharat Dairles 

Ltd ., Hoshiarpur. 
S . R . O . 2177, -- Whereas the communications addressed to Bharat Dairies Ltd ., 
under section 247 ( 1 ) has remained unanswered and under section 247 ( 2 ) is 
returned undelivered by Post Office : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Bharat Dairies Ltd ., is not 
carrying on business or is not in operation ; 


PART II — Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1964 


1711 


Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act, that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice , the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved. 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Gohana 

Chamber of Commerce Ltd ., Loharu . 
S . R . O . 2178 . - Whereas in reply to letter under section 247 ( 1 ) the Directors 
of the Gohana Chamber of Commerce Ltd ., has stated that the company is not 
carrying on any business : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Gohana Chamber of Commerce 
Ltd ., is not carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act , that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice, the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and the Crystal Movetone 

Ltd ., Barara ( Ambala ) . 
S . R . O . 2179 . 

6Whereas the communications addressed to the Crystal Move 
tone Ltd ., under sections 247 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the Indian Companies Act 1913 have 
remained unanswered : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Crystal Movetone Ltd ., is not 
carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notico is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act, that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice, the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Nanda Bus Service 

( 1944 ) Ltd ., Rupar , 
S . R . O . 2180, — Whereas the communications addressed to the Nanda Bus 
Service ( 1944 ) Ltd ., under sections 247 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the Indian Companies 
Act, 1913 have remained unanswered : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Nanda Bus Service ( 1944 ) Ltd ., 
is not carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act , that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice , the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of Montgomery Trans 

port Co . Ltd ., Amritsar . 
S . R . O . 2181 . — Whereas the communications addressed to Montgomery Trans 
port Co . Ltd ., under sections 247 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the Indian Companies Act , 1913 
· have remained unanswered : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Montgomery Transport Co . Ltd ., 
is not carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act, that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice , the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of Gohana Transport 

Co. Ltd ., Rohtak . 
S . R . O . 2182. - Whereas the communications addressed to Gohana Transport 
Company Ltd ., under section 247 ( 1 ) is returned undelivered by Post Office and 
under section 247 ( 2 ) has remained unanswered : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Gohana Transport Company Ltd ., 
is not carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice , the name of the said company will be struck of the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 


1712 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


[ PART II — SEC. 3 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Kalka Simla Hills 

Motor Union Ltd ., Kalka . 
S . R . O . 2183. — Whereas the communications addressed to the Kalka Simla 
Hills Motor Union Ltd ., under sections 247 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the Indian Companies 
Act, 1913 have remained unanswered : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Kalka Simla Hills Motor Union 
Ltd ., is not carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act, that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice , the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 


In the inatter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of Samundri Transport 

Company Ltd ., Jullundur City . 
S . R . O . 2184 . — Whereas the communications addressed to the Samundri Trans 
port Co . Ltd ., under sections 247 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the Indian Companies Act , 1913 
have remained unanswered : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Samundri Transport Company 
Ltd ., is not carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby giyen pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act, that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice, the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and the Parbhat Transport 

Company Ltd ., Ambala Cantt. 
S . R . O . 2185 . - -Whereas the communications addressed to the Parbhat Trans 
port Company Ltd ., under sections 247 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the Indian Companies Act, 
1913 have remained unanswered : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Parbhat Transport Company 
Ltd ., is not carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act, that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice, the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of Ex - Service Syndicate 

Ltd ., Jullundur City . 
S . R . O . 2186 . — Whereas in reply to letler under section 247 ( 1 ) the Managing 
Director of the Ex - Service Syndicate Ltd ., has stated that the company is not 
carrying on any business : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Ex -Service Syndicate Ltd ., is 
not carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act , that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice , the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of Daudhar Dayalbagh 

Stores Ltd ., Daudhar ( Ferozepur ) . 
S . R . O . 2187. — Whereas in reply to letter under section 247 ( 1 ) the Secretary 
of the Daudhar Dayalbagh Stores Ltd ., has stated that the company is not carry 
ing on any business: 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Daudhar Dayalbagh Stores Ltd ., 
is not carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above Act, that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice , the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 


PART II- SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


1713 


L 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1933 and of Hind Textiles Ltd ., 

Hoshiarpur. 
S . R . O . 2188 . — Whereas in reply to letter under section 247 ( 1 ) the Directors 
of Hind Textiles Ltd ., have stated that the company is not carrying on any 
business : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Hind Textiles Ltd ., is not carry 
ing on business or is not in operation : 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above Act that unless 
cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from the 
date of this notice, the name of the said company will be struck off the register 
and the said company will be dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of East Punjab 

Chamber of Agriculture Amritsar . 
S . R . O ., 2189.- - W bereas is reply to letter under section 247 ( 1 ) the Secretary 
General of East Punjab Chamber of Agriculture has stated that the company is 
not carrying on any business : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the East Punjab Chamber of Agricul 
ture is not carrying on business or is not in operation : 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above Act , that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice, the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said compnay will be dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of Haryana Dairics Ltd ., 

Hansi. 
S . R . O . 2190 . — Whereas to reply to letter under section 247 ( 1 ) the Managing 
Director of Haryana Dairies Ltd ., has, stated that the company is not carrying 
on any business : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the Haryana Dairies Ltd ., is not 
carrying on business or is not in operation : 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice , the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and the East Punjab 

Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association Ludhiana. 
S . R . O . 2191 . - Whereas in reply to letter under section 247 ( 1 ) the Secretary 
of East Punjab Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association has stated that the company 
is not carrying on any business : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that the East Punjab Cycle Parts Manu 
facturers Association is not carrying on business or is not in operation : 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the above said Act, that 
unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of threc months from 
the date of this notice, the name of the said company will be struck off the 
register and the said company will be dissolved . 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of Rajput Transport 

Co. Ltd ., Rohtak . 
S . R . O . 2192 . - -Notice is hereby given that Rajput Transport Co., Ltd ., against 
whom notice under section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies Act 1913 was issued 
in the Gazette of India , dated 13th February 1954, is not carrying on business 
and no cause is shown to the contrary by the company with the time specified 
in the notice. Accordingly in pursuance of section 247 ( 5 ) of the aforesaid Act 
the name of the company has been struck off the register and the company is 
dissolved . 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of Jhajjar Motor 

Transport Co. Ltd ., Jhajjar . 
S .R . O . 2193. - Notice is hereby given that Jhajjar Motor Transport Co. Ltd ., 
against whom notice under section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies Act 1913 
was issued in the Gazette of India , dated 13th February 1954 , is not carrying on 
business and no cause is shown to the contrary by the company within the time 


1714 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 8, 1964 


(PART II Suc . 8 


specified in the notice . Accordingly in pursuance of section 247 ( 5 ) of the 
aforesaid Act the name of the company has been struck off the register and the 
company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of Amar Nath Gian 

Chand and Co . Ltd . , Ludhiana . 
S . R . O . 2194 .- Notice is hereby given the Amar Nath Gian Chand and Co . 
Ltd ., against whom notice under section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies Act 
1913 was issued in the Gazette of Indra , dated 13th February 1954, is not carrying 
on business and no cause is shown to the contrary by the company within the 
time specified in the notice . Accordingly in pursuance of section 247 ( 5 ) of the 
aforesaid Act the name of the company has been struck off the register and the 
company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of Satpal Trading 

Co. Ltd ., Malout Mandi. 
S . R . O . 2195 . - Notice 1s hereby given that Satpal Trading Co . Ltd ., against 
whom notice under section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies Act 1913 was issued 
in the Gazette of India , dated 13th February 1954 , is not carrying on business 
and no cause is shown to the contrary by the company within the time specified 
in the notice . Accordingly in pursuance of section 247 ( 5 ) of the aforesaid Act 
the name of the company has been struck of the register and the company is 
dissolved. 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Indian 

Development Industries Ltd ., Jullundur. 
S . R . O . 2196 , - Nctice is hereby given that Indian Development Industries Ltd ., 
against whom notice under section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies Act 1913 was 
issued in the Gazette of India , dated 13th February 1954, is not carrying on 
business and no cause is shown to the contrary by the company within the time 
specified in the notice. Accordingly in pursuance of section 247 (5 ) of the afore 
said Act the name of the company has been struck off the register and the 
company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companics Act VII of 1913 and of Sonepat Iron and 

Hardware Merchants Association Ltd ., Sonepat. 
S . R . O . 2197 - -Notice is hereby given that Sonepat Tron and Hardware 
Merchants Association Ltd ., against whom notice under section 247 ( 3 ) of the 
Indian Companies Act, 1913 was issued in the Gazette of India , dated 13th February 
1954 , is not carrying on business and no cause is shown to the contrary by 
the company within the time specified in the notice. Accordingly in pursuance 
of section 247 ( 5 ) of the aforesaid Act the name of the company has been struck 
off the register and the company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Desh Films 

Ltd ., Panjaur (Hoshiarpur ) . 
S . R . O . 2198. - Notice is hereby given that Desh Films Ltd ., against whom 
notice under section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies Act 1913 was issued in the 
Gazette of India , dated 13th February 1954 , is not carrying on business and no 
cause is shown to the contrary by the company within the time specified in the 
notice. Accordingly in pursuance of section 247 ( 5 ) of the aforesaid Act the name 
of the company has been struck off the register and the company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of International Art 

Palace Ltd ., Rupar . 
S . R . O . 2199,-- Notice is hereby given that International Art Palace Ltd ., 
against whom notice under section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies Act 1913 
was issued in the Gazette of India , dated 13th February 1954, is not carrying on 
business and no cause is shown to the contrary by the company within the time 
specified in the notice. Accordingly in pursuance of section 247 ( 5 ) of the afore 
said Act the name of the company has been struck off the register and the 
company is dissolved . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of Hind Needles Ltd ., 

Ludhiana . 
S . R . O . 2240 . - - Notice is hereby given that Hind Needles Ltd ., against whoni 
notice under section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies Act 1913 was issued in the 


PART 11 - SEC . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1984 


1715 


Gazette of India , dated 13th February 1954 , is not carrying on business and no 
cause is shown to the contrary by the company within the time specified in the 
notice. Accordingly in pursuance of section 247 ( 5 ) of the aforesaid Act the 
name of the company has been struck off the register and the company is dissolv 
ed . 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Tropical Dairies 

Limited Ludhiana. 
S .R . O . 2201. -Whereas the Tropical Dairies Limited Ludhiana was brought 
under voluntary liquidation on the 14th February 1949 , and Shri Ram Lal, 
Advocate , was appointed its voluntaryliquidator. The liquidator died after 
sometime and the vacancy was to be Alled by the creditors under section 209 - E 
of the Indian Companies Act 1913 . The directors of the company were informed 
to this effect in August 1952 but no liquidator was appointed inspite of several 
reminders issued by this office . I have therefore reasonable cause to believe 
that no liquidator is acting and accordingly a notice under section 247 ( 4 ) of the 
Indian Companies Act 1913 is issued against the Tropical Dairies Limited to the 
effect that at the expiration of three months from the date of this publication , 
the name of the company will unless cause is shown to the contrary , be struck 
off the registers and the company will be dissolved . 

DES RAJ NANDA , 
Assistant Registrar , Joint Stock Companies, Punjab . 


Delhi, the 21st June 1954 
NOTICE UNDER SECTION 247 ( 4 ) OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 1913 

In the matter of M /s . Trust & Credit Corporation Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2202 . - Whereas M / s. Trust & Credit Corporation Ltd . is being wound 
up and it is believed that either no Liquidation is acting or the affairs of the 
company have been fully wound up . It is hereby notified that at the expiration 
of three months from the date hereof, the name of the company will, unless cause 
is shown to the contrary, be struck off the Register and the Company will be 
dissolved . 

[No. C / 503 / JSC. ] 
Delhi, the 22nd June 1954 
NOTICE UNDER SECTION 247 ( 4 ) OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 1913 

In the matter of Mahabir Films Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2203 . - Whereas Mahabir Films Ltd . is being wound up and it is believed 
that either no Liquidator is acting or the affairs of the company have been fully 
wound up . It is hereby notified that at the expiration of three months from the 
date hereof, the name of the company will, unless cause is shown to the contrary , 
be struck off the Register and the Company will be dissolved . 

[No. C /341/ JSC .] 


NOTICE UNDER SECTION 247 (4 ) OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES Act, 1913 

In the matter of M / s. Grand Indian Motors Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2204 , — Whereas M / s . Grand Indian Motors Ltd . is being wound up and 
it is believed that cither no Liquidator is acting or the affairs of the company 
have been fully wound up . It is hereby notified that at the expiration of three 
months from the date hereof, the name of the company will, unless cause is shown 
to the contrary , be struck off the Register and the Company will be dissolved , 

[ No. C / 449 / JSC .] 


NOTICE UNDER SECTION 247 ( 4 ) OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 1913 

In the matter of M /s. Surendra & Kaushisk Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2208 . — Whereas M / s, Surendra & Kaushisk Ltd . is being wound up and 
it is believed that either no Liquidator is acting or the affairs of the company 
have been fully wound up . It is hereby notified that at the expiration of three 


1716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3 , 1954 


[PART II _ SEC. 3 


months from the date hereof , the name of the company will, unless cause is shown 
to the contrary , be struck off the Register and the Company will be dissolved . 

[ No . C /305 / JSC .] 

N . D . BHATIA , 
Asstt . Registrar, Joint Stock Companies, Delhi. 


Shillong, the 22nd June 1954 
In the matter of the Indian Companics Act , 1913 and in the matter of The Assam 

Flying Club Ltd ., of Dibrugarh , 
S . R . O . 2206 . — Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian 
Companies Act, 1913 that at the expiration of three months from this datę, the 
name of the Assam Flying Club Ltd ., will unless cause is shown to the contrary 
be struck off the Register of Companies and the Club will be dissolved on the 
ground that it is not carrying on any business and is not in operation , 

[No. 826 - 28J. S . ] 
N . N , CHAKRAVARTY , Registrar 
of Joint Stock Companies , 

Assam . 


Eluru , the 22nd June 1954 

NOTICE PURSUANT TO SECTION 247 ( 3 ) 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and the Tadepalligudem Dayalbagh 

Stores Limited 
S . R . O . 2207. — Where as Sri D . Chr. Venkateswarlu , one of the directors of the 
Company has, in his letter, dated 3rd February 1954 , reported that the business 
of the Company was closed long ago. 

Whereas the above director , in his letter , dated 11th March 1954, requested that 
the Company may be dissolved under the provisions of the Indian Companies Act , 
1913 . 

And whereas it appears accordingly , that “ The Tadepalligudem Dayalbagh 
Stores Limited " is not carrying on business or is not in operation , 

Notice is hereby given , pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies 
Act, 1913, that, unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of 
three months from the date of this notice , the name of the said Company will be 
struck off the Register and the said Company will be dissolved . 

[No . K .49 /54.] 

K . SURYANARAYANA , 
Addi. Asstt. Registrar of Joint Stock Companies , 

West Godavari, Eluru . 


Eluru , the 24th June 1954 

NOTICE PURSUANT TO SECTION 247 (5 ) 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and K . B . Milk Products Limited 

S . R . O . 2208. - With reference to the notice, dated 4th March 1954 , published 
on page 562 of Part II of the Gazette of India , dated 20th March 1954 , the above 
Company , not having shown cause to the contrary within the time fixed , the name 
of the Company has , under section 247 ( 5 ) of the Indian Companies Act , 1913 , been 
struck off the register , 

[No. K .126 / 54.] 
K . V . NARASIMHAM CHETTY , 
Assistant Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, 

West Godavari, Eluru , 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


1717 


Bombay , the 22nd June 1954 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Coastal and 

Allied ( India ) Limited 
S . R . O . 2209, — Itotice is hereby given pursuant to sub - section (5 ) of 
section 247 of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 that the name of the Coastal 
and Allied ( India ) Limited , has this day been struck off the Register and the 
said Company is hereby dissolved . 

[No. 7921.] 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Shri Krishna 

Agency ( Sholapur ) Limited 
S . R . O . 2210 . — Notice is hereby given pursuant to sub - section (5 ) of 
section 247 of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 that the name of the Shri 
Krishna Agency (Sholapur ) Limited , has this day been struck of the Register 
and the said Company is hereby dissolved . 

[ No. 6363 .] 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the New Vita Motor 

Owner s Association Limited 
S . R . O . 2211 . — Notice is hereby given pursuant to sub - section (5 ) of 
section 247 of the Indian Companics Act VII of 1913 that the name of the New 
Vita Motor Owner s Association Limited , has this day been struck off the Register 
and the said Company is hereby dissolved . 

[No. 5089 .) 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Hindusthan 

Express Company Limited 
S . R . O . 2212 . -- Notice is hereby given pursuant to sub - section ( 5 ) of 
section 247 of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 that the name of the Hindusthan 
Express Company Limited , has this day been struck off the Register and the said 
Company is hereby dissolved. 

[ No. 5515.] 
Bombay , the 25th June 1954 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Poona Kirkee 

Motor Union Limited 
S . R . O . 2213 . - Notice is hereby given pursuant to sub - section (5 ) of 
section 247 of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 that the name of the Poona 
Kirkee Motor Union Limited , has this day been struck off the Register and the 
said Company is hereby dissolved . 

[ No. 3856 .] 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Faizpur Transport 

Limited 
S . R . O . 2214 . — Notice is hereby given pursuant to sub - section (5 ) of 
section 247 of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 that the name of the Faizpur 
Transport Limited , has this day been struck off the Register and the said Company 
is hereby dissolved . 

[No. 3207 . ] 


In the matter of the Indian Companics Act VII of 1913 and of the Hind Stores 

Limited 
S . R . O . 2215 . — Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 of the Indian 
Companies Act VII of 1913 , that at the expiration of three months from the date 
hercof the name of the Hind Stores Limited , will, unless cause is shown to the 
contrary , be struck off the Register and the said Company will be dissolved . 

[ No. 4779 .] 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Farmago 

Limited 
S . R . O . 2216 . - -Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 of the Indian 
Companies Act VII of 1913, that at the expiration of three months from the date 


1718 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1954 


[PART II — SEC. 3 


hereof the name of the Farmago Limited, will, unless cause is shown to the 
contrary, be struck off the Register and the said Company will be dissolved . 

[No. 4972.] 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Vengurla Motor 

Union Limited 
S . R . O . 2217.- - Notice is hereby given pursuant to the section 247 of the Indian 
Companies Act VII of 1913 , that at the expiration of three months from the date 
hereof the name of Vengurla Motor Union Limited , will , unless cause is shown 
to the contrary bę struck off the Register and the said Company will be dissolved . 

[No. 4111. ] 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act VII of 1913 and of the Shah Publicity 

Corporation Limited 
S . R . O . 2218. Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 of the Indian 
Companies Act VII of 1913 , that at the expiration of three months from the date 
hereof the name of Shah Publicity Corporation Limited , will, unless cause is 
shown to the contrary be struck off the Register and the said Company will be 
dissolved . 

[No. 3270 .] 
T . J . GONDHALEKAR , 
Registrar of Companies , Bombay . 


Kozhikode, the 23rd June 1954 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act , 1913 and the Malabar Trading 

Company, Limited . 

NOTICE PURSUANT TO SECTION 247 ( 3 ) 
S . R . O . 2219 , - Whereas communications addressed to the MalabarTrading Com 
pany, Limited remain unanswered ; and 

Whereas it appears accordingly that the Malabar Trading Company, Limited 
is not carrying on business or is not in operation ; 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies 
Act, 1913 , that unless causc is shown to the contrary before the expiration of 
three months from the date of this notice , the name of the said company will 
be struck off the register and the said company will be dissolved . 

K . K . SYED MOHAMMAD , 
Asstt . Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, Kozhikode . 


Form III. 

Mangalore , the 24th June 1954 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and Mahalaxmi Chit Funds 

Limited . 


S . R . O . 2220 . - Whereas communications addressed to Mahalaxmi Chit Funds 
Limited at its registered office, E . A . Pais Building , I Floor, Room No. 3, K . S . Rao 
Road , Mangalore , either remain unanswered or are returned undelivered by the 
Post office : 

And whereas at the time of a visit on 31st July 1953, there was no trace of 
the company at its registered office : 

And whereas it appears accordingly that Mahalaxmi Chit Funds Limited is 
not carrying on business or is not in opcration : 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies 
Act, 1913 that unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of 
three months from the date of this notice , the name of the said company will be 
struck off the register and the said company will be dissolved . 

K . S. RAO, 
Asstt. Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, South Kanara . 


PART II — SEC. 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JULY 3, 1984 


1719 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Trivandrum , the 24th June 1954 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and of the Kothamangalam 

Rubber Estates Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2221 . - Notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 172 ( 2 ) of the Indian 
Companies Act , 1913 , that the Kothamangalam Rubber Estates Ltd . has been 
ordered to be wound up by an order of the District Court, Parur, dated the 23rd 
December, 1949 , and that Shri M . M . Abdul Kadir has been appointed Official 
Liquidator of the Company . 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and of the Kuriyans Ltd . 

S . R . O . 2222 . - Notice is hereby given pursuant to section 172 ( 2 ) of the Indian 
Companies Act , 1913 , that Kuriyans Ltd . has been ordered to be wound up by 
an order of the District Court, Kottayam , dated the 31st March , 1953 , and that 
Shri P . C . Pothen , Omcial Receiver , has been appointed Official Liquidator of 
the Company. 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913 and in the matter of 

Malabar Bricks Ltd . 
S . R . O . 2223 . - Whereas the undersigned has grounds to believe that the above 
mentioned Company is neither carrying on business nor is in operation , it is 
hereby notified under section 247 ( 3 ) of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 , that at 
the expiration of three months from the date of this notice the Company will, 
unless causc is shown to the contrary be struck off the Register and the said 
Company will be dissolved . 

Trivandrum , the 26th June 1954 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 , and in the matter of the Oriental 

Banking Corporation Ltd . ( In liquidation ) , Trivandrum . 
S . R . O . 2224 .- - Whereas from the fact that communications addressed to the 
Liquidator of the above Bank are returned by the Postal authorities undelivered , 
it appears that no liquidator is acting, it is hereby notified under section 247 ( 4 ) 
of the Indian Companies Act , 1913 , that at the expiration of three months from 
the date of this notice the name of the Bank will, unless cause is shown to the 
contrary , be struck off the Register and the Bank will be dissolved . 

P . J. VARGHESE , 
Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, Travancore -Cochin . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER , GOVT. OF INDIA PRE99, NEW DELHI 
* ND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI , 1964 


