REGISTERED No, D, | 232 



of .lob in 


Hrlhfcf 3PT?f 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


4 r 




; i ll a, 

'O' T r , T 



No. 7] 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1957 




NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazette of India Extraordinary was published upto the 8th February 1957; 


Issue No. and date Issued by Subject 

No. 


14 No. l-ETC(P.N.)/57, dated the Ministry of Commerce and Con- Export of Pashmina Wool for the 
8th February 1957. sumer Industries. period January- June 1957, 


Copies of the Gazette Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of 

Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten 

days of Ihe date of issue of this Gazette. 


CON TENTS 


Pages 

Part I — Section i. — Notifications relating to 
Non-Stututory Rules, Regulation* and 

Orders and Resolutions issued by the 
Ministries of the Government of India 
(ether than the Ministry of Defence! 
and by the Supreme Court . . 51 

Part I— -Section a.— Notifications regarding 
Appointments, Promotions, Leave, 
etc. of Government Officers Issued 
by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of 
Defence) and by the Supreme Court 87 

Part I — Section 3. — Notifications relating 
to Non-Statutory Rules, Regulations, 

Order* and Resolution*, lsaued by the 
Ministry of Defence ... 15 

Part I — Section 4. — Notifications regarding 
Appointment*, Promotions, Leave, 
etc. of Officers, issued by the Ministry 
of Defence , . 37 

Part II— Section 1.— Acts, Ordinances and 

Regulations Nil 

Part II — Section 2,— Bills and Reports of 

Select Committees on Bills . Nil 

Part II — Sbction 3.— Statutory Rules and 
Orders notified by tho Ministries of 
the Government of India, other than 
tho Ministry of Defence and Central 
Authorities, other than the Chief 
Commlaaloner* 279 


Pages 

Part II — Section 4. — Statutory Rules and 

Order* notified by the Ministry of Defence 23 

Part III — Section i. — Notifications issued by 
the Auditor General, Union Public Service 
Commission, Railway Administration, High 
Court*, and the Attached and Subordinate 


offices of the Government of India 
(. Published at Simla) .... 

1 59 

Part m — Section a.— Notification* and 

Notice* lsnued by the Patent Office, 
Calcutta (PubHihtd at Simla) 

3i 

Part III — Section 3. — Notification* issued 

by or tinder the authority of Chief 
Commissioner* ( Publish td at Simla) 

15 

Part III — Section 4. — Miscellaneous Noti- 

fications ( Published at Simla) 

75 

PART IV— Advertisement* and Notices by 
Private Individual* and Corporations 
(PubUthed at Simla) 

39 

Supplement No. 7— 


Reported attacks and deaths from cholera, small- 
pox, plague and typhus in districts in India 
during the week ending 19th January, 
1937 • 

83 

Births and deaths bom principal diseases in 
towns With a population of 30,000 and 
over in India during tho week ending 

19th January, 1937 

86 

I— Section 1 


Notifications relating to Non-Statntory Uulos, Regulations and Orders and . i f" ed 

by the Ministries of the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by 

the Supreme Court 


OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY TO THE PRESIDENT 

New Delhi, the 6 th February 1957 

No. 14-Pres./57. — The President is pleased to award 
the Police Medal for gallantry to the undermentioned 
officer of the former Patiala and East Punjab States 
Union: — 

Name of officer and rank . — Shri Balwant Singh, 
Inspector of Police, No, 31/P. 

Statement, of services for which the decoration has 
been awarded . — On the 9th August 1955 Inspector 


* •» • — 

Ilnlwant Singh learnt that Molu and Harkishan alias 
Sahia two notorious outlaws, were in a house in the 
village of Khera Gandn. Having disposed his force 
to cover all the possible routes of escape, the Inspector 
with some of his men climbed on to the roof of the 
house in which the outlaws were hiding, and called 
on them to surrender, but was met with firing. The 
Inspector and a Constable then took up a position 
behind a heap of earth in the courtyard of the house. 
The dacoits hurled two hand-grenades at them, which 
failed to explode but compelled them to withdraw. 

Finding that the outlaws were well entrenched and 
that it would he difficult to dislodge them, the 



52 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 18, 1957 [Paiit I— Sec.1 


Inspector decided to set Arc to the house by making 
a hole in the roof. Realising the danger to them, the 
dacoits rushed out of the house firing Inspector 
Balwant Singh had, in the meantime, taken up 
position with a party of police to cover the exit and 
Molu was shot down as he emerged, while Harkishan 
was hit and killed at a distance of 50 yards. Harkishan 
was armed with a -303 rifle and had also two MK. 36 
hand-grenades on him. Molu was armed with a 
12 bore D.B.B.L. gun and had a large number of 
cartridges. 

In liquidating these two notorious dacoits Inspector 
Balwant Singh displayed courage and leadership of a 
high order. 

This award is made for gallantry under rule 4(1) 
of the Rules governing the award of the Police Medal 
and consequently carries with it the special allowance 
admissible to officers of and below the rank of 
Inspector of Police as provided in rule 5. 

New Delhi, the 9th February 1957 

No. 15 -Pres./ 57 . — The President is pleased to award 
the President’s Police and Fire Services Medal for 
gallantry to the undermentioned officer of the Uttar 
Pradesh Police: — 

Name of the officer and rank . — Shri Manphool Singh, 
Constable No. 714, Civil Police, District Agra, Uttar 
Pradesh. 

Statement of services for -which the decoration has 
been awarded . — By the morning of 13th August, 1956, 
flood waters from Bharatpur had reached the 
neighbourhood of Fatehpur Sikri in Agra District and 
the surrounding area was a vast sheet of water spread 
over several miles. The water level at the Tera Mori 
Bandh near Fatehpur Sikri had already over-shot the 
danger mark by a foot and was still' rising rapidly. 
It was quite apparent that unless the sluice gates of 
the Bandh were opened immediately, the rising waters 
would endanger the safety of the dam itself and the 
devastation of the adjoining villages would result if 
the dam was breached. 

This Tera Mori Bandh had been constructed in the 
days of Emperor Akbar and had been in disuse for a 
considerable length of time. No mechanical devices 
were available for opening the sluice gates and the 
employees of the Canal Department were themselves 
unable to open them. At this critical stage Constable 
Manphool Singh volunteered to enter the swift current 
and bodily remove the planks of the sluice gales. 
With a rope tied round his waist he entered the water 
and with considerable difficulty and at great personal 
risk succeeded In removing 14 wooden planks of the 
ates. Thereafter the current became so swift that 
e was carried away and had to be pulled out of the 
water. 


Two days Jater more flood water came into the area 
and would undoubtedly have caused great damage 
had not the sluice gates been partially dismentled. 

Constable Manphool Singh displayed great courage 
and devotion to public service outside the line of his 
official duty. 

This award is made for gallantry under rule 4 (i > 
of the rules governing the award of the President’s 
Police and Fire Services Medal and consequently 
carries with it the special allowance admissible to 
officers of and below the rank of Inspector of Police 
as provided in rule 5. 

C. S. VENKATACHAR, Secy. 

MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 
(Posts & Telegraphs) 

New Delhi, the 6th February 1957 
No. H. 16 - 31 / 54 . — It is notified for general in- 
formation that Ordinary (Public) and Service post- 
age stamps including postcards, envelopes etc., bearing 
the effigy of His Late Majesty King George V or His 
Late Majesty King George VI, demonetised in accor- 
dance with the Government of India, Ministry of Com- 
munications (Posts and Telegraphs) Notification No 
H 16-31/54 dated the 28th December, 1954, published 
at pages 63-64 of the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 
3, dated the 8th January, 1955, S.R.O 92 dated the 28th 
December, 1954, if still lying with the departments of 
Government or members of the public, mav be ex- 
changed for current stamps of equivalent value with- 
in a period of si, r weeks, commencing from February 
15, 1957 on the same terms and conditions as laid down 
in para 2 of the above notification 

The Notification cited above is reproduced below: — 

“S.R.O. 92.— It is hereby notified for general in- 
formation that Ordinary (public) and 
Service postage stamps including postcards, 
envelopes, etc. bearing the effigy of His Late 
Majesty King George V or His Late Majesty 
King George VI will, with effect from 1st 
October 1954, not be accepted in pre-payment 
of postage or telegraph charges or other sums 
chargeable under the Indian Post Office Act, 
1898 (VI of 1898), or the Indian Telegraph 
Act, 1885 (XIII of 1885). 

2. Ordinary adhesive or embossed postage stamps 
of the above description including postal stationery, 
e.g., postcards, envelopes, bearing printed matter may, 
however, be exchanged for current stamps of equiva- 
lent value free of cost at. Indian Post Offices and Ser- 
vice postage stamps at Government Treasuries within 
six months from the aforesaid date, provided they are 
unused and unspoiled.’’ 

H. C. SHARMA, Under Secy. 


MINISRTY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 8th February 1957 

No. F.j (iVF.I./jA. — S tatement of the Affair* of the Reserve Bank of India ai on the 1st February, 1957. 

Banking Department 


Liabilities 

Rs. 

Capital paid up 

3,00,00,000 

Reserve Fund ..... 

3,00,00,000 

National Agricultural Credit (Long-term Opeia- 
tlons) Fund ...... 

13/10,00,000 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund 

Deposits 1— 

1,00,00,000 

(a) Government t — 


(i) Central Government 

5 ^, 34 . 51,000 

(a) Other Government* 

16,68,48,000 

(6) Bank* 

54,44,01,000 

(«) Other* 

1340,42,000 

Bills Payable ..... 

15.00,38,000 

Other liabilities 

112,87,07,000 

Total 

290,74,87.000 


Assets 

Rs 

Notes ...... 

14,54,88,000 

Rupee Coin 

6,51,000 

Subsidiary Coin ..... 

12,73,000 

Bills Purchased and Discounted 1 — 


(a) Internal .... 

. 

( b ) External .... 


(c) Government Treasury Bills . 

. 142,19,000 

Balances held abroad* .... 

93,84,24,000 

Loans and Advances to Governments 

6,24,70,000 

Other Loans and Advancer) . 

10845,67,000 

Investments 

51,42,84,000 

Other Assets 

14,61,11,000 

Total 

290,74,87.0^0 


■includes Cadi »nd Short Term Securities 

f(i) The item ‘Other Loans and Advances’ includes R«. 58,87,67,000 advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills under 
Section I7(4)(c) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 

(a) The total amount of advance* availed of by scheduled banks against usance bills under Section 17(4X0) of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act since ist January 1957 Is Rs. 59,12,43,000. 



£art I — Sec, 1 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1667 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week ended the 1st day 0/ February, 1957. 

Issue Department 

Liabilities 

Rs. 

Ri. 

Assets 

R». Rs. 

Notes held In the Banking 
Department 

No*es In circulation 

14,54,88,000 

1494,02,15,000 


A — Gold Coin and Bullion 1 — 

(a) Held in India 

(b) Held outside India 

117,76,03,000 

Toul Notes issued 


1508,57.03,000 

Foreign Securities 

Total of A 

B. — Rupee Coin 

Government of India 

Rupee Securities . 

Internal Bills of Exchange 
and other commercial 
paper .... 

412,51,91,000 

530.27,94/100 

123.25.65.000 

853.03.44.000 

Total Liabilities 


1508,57,03,000 

Total Assets 

1508,57,03,000 


O.HCLI ifie 6 th day of February, 195 ?, K. G. AmbbgaokaR, Governor. 


THE INSTITUTE OlF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
| OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 6th February 1057 

No. 12. — Exam( 5 )/ 57 . — In pursuance of Regulation 23 
of the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1949, the 
Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India is pleased to direct that the Preliminary Exa- 
mination under the said Regulations shall be held on 
the 14th 15th, 1 6th.. 17th and 18th May 1957, the Inter 
mediate Examination on the 17th, 18th, 20th, 21st and 
22nd May 1957, and the Final Examination on the 14th, 
15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 20th. 21st and 22nd May 1957. 
The examinations Will be held at the following centres 
provided that sufficient number of candidates present 
themselves for the examinations at each of the 
centres: — 

(1) AHMEDABAD, (2) ALLAHABAD, (3) BANGA- 
LORE, (4) BOMBAY, (6) CALCUTTA, (6) DELHI, 
(7) ERNAKULAM, (8) HYDERABAD (Dn), 
<9) POONA and (10) MADRAS. 

Applications for admission to these Examinations 
are required to be made on the prescribed forms, copies 
of which may be obtained from the Secretary to the 
Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants oi 
India, Post Box No. 268, New Delhi — 1. Each such 
application together with the necessary certificates and 
a Demand Draft payable at New Delhi and drawn in 
favour of the Secretary referred to above, for the 
Examination fee of Rs. 25/- in the case of the Prelimi- 
nary Examination, Rs. 50/- in the case of the Interme- 
diate Examination, and Rs. 75/- for admission to both 
the groups or Rs. 50/- for admission to one group only 
of the Final Examination, must be sent so as to reach 
the Secretary to the Council not later than the 15th 
March 1957. 


New Delhi, the 11th February, 1957 

No. 4-CA(l) / 17 / 56 . — In pursuance of Regulation 12 
ot the Chartered Accountants Regulations. 1949, it is 
hereby notified that in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by clause (c) of sub-Section (1) of Section 
20 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949, the Coun- 
cil of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
has removed from the Register of Members-, with 
effect from the 13th day of December, 1956, owing to 
death, the name of Shri Paoanasam Narayanaswami 
Swaminathun Aiyar, “Krishna Bhavan", Sandhurst 
Bridge, Girgaum, Bombay-4 (Membership No. 61). 

No, 4 -CAO) / 17 / 56 ,— -In pursuance of Regulation 12 
of the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1949, it is 
hereby notified that in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by clause (b) of sub-Section (1) of Section 
20 of the Chartered Accountants Act. 1949 the Coun- 
cil of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
has removed from the Register of Members, with 


H. M. PATEL, Secy. 


effect from the 1st April 1956, owing to non-payment of 
fees, the names of the following gentlemen, namely: 

Serial Member- Name and Address 

No. ship 
No. 


1 300 Shri Sitaram Rangaswamy Iyengar, No. 8, 

Ganapathy Agrahurum, Dindigul. 

2 430 Shri Kenneth Richard Fettes, C/o Ogilvy 

Gillanders and Co. Ltd,, 2-A, East- 
cheap, King William House, London, 
E.C. 3. 

3 487 Shri Vishwanath Chokra, 5/67, Western 

Extension Area, Karol (inch, New 
Delhi. 

4 659 Shri Hormazidiar Fcrdoon Damkcvala, Inter- 

nal Audit Officer, The Tata Iron and 
Steel & Co. Ltd., Jamshedpur. 

5 1027 Shri Rakhaldas Som, 19/C Raja Manindra 

Road, Paikpara, Calcutta -37. 

6 1043 Shri Sultanali Gulamhuscin Merchant, 

Jaffcrshcrmahomed Huilding, 4th Floor, 
Khadak, Bombay-^. 

7 1414 Shri Philip Cunningham Haworth, C'o 

Briush Titan Products Co. Ltd., Cop- 
pergate, York. ( U.K. ). 

8 1532 Shri Chandulal Ramji Karia, Amroli House, 

3rd Floor, Vithalhhai Patel Road, 
Bombay -4, 

9 34 2( i Shri Samarendra Majumdar, 15, Jadu 

Bhauacharjce Lane, 2nd Floor, Calcutta-26, 
10 3513 Shri Ramesh Chandcr Malhotra, C/o Life 

Insurance Corporation of India, 
ioo, The Mull, Ambala Cantt, 


E. V. SRINIVASAN, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND CONSUMER 
INDUSTRIES 

NOTICES 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1957 

No. CCl/SPE/6/57/857 — Whereas there is reason to 
believe Lhat lir-cnce No. A 1 30221 /56/AU/JCCl/Bom , 
dated the 91h October 1956, valued at Rs 5,000/- lor 
import of News Print, from the Soft Currency Area 
except South Africa, granted by the Joint Chief Con- 
troller of Imports and Exports Bombay, to M/s. 
Snndhva Prakaslian, Kolhapur, was obtained on mis- 
representation of facts, it is, therefore, hereby notified, 
that the Government of India in the Ministry of Com- 
merce and Consumer Industries in exercise of the 



54 


THE] GAZETTE OE‘ INDIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1967 


powers specified in paragraph 9 of the Imports (Con- 
trol) Urder, 1955, dated the 7th December 1955. propose 
to cancel the said licence No. A 136221/56/AU/ JCC1/ 
Bom,, dated the 9th October iy5d, unless sufficient cause 
against this is furnished to the Chief Controller of Im- 
ports, Church Road Hutments, New Delhi, within ten 
days of the date of issue of this notice by the said M/a. 
Sandhya Prakashan, Kolhapur, or any bank or any 
otner parly who may oe interested In it, 

2. In view of what is siated above M/s. Sandhya 
Prakashan, Kolhapur, or any bank or any other parly 
who may be interested In the said licence No. A 136221/ 
56/ AU/JCCCl/Bom., dated the 9th October 1956, arc 
hereby directed not to enter into any further com- 
mitments against the said licence and return it imme- 
diately to tne Chief Controller of Imports, New Delhi. 

No. CCI/SPE/6/57/871.— -Whereaj there is reason to 
believe that licence No. A 136219/56/ AU/JCCl/Born. 
dated the 9th October 1956, valued _at Rs. 5,000/- for 
import of News Print from the Soft Currency Area 
except South Africa granted by the Joint Chief Con- 
troller oi Imports and Exports, Bombay, to M/s. Chltra- 
yug, Kolhapur, was obtained on misrepresentation of 
facts, it is, tlierctore, hereby notified, that the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Con- 
sumer Industries, in exercise of the powers specified in 
paragraph 9 of the imports (Control) Order, 1955, dated 
the vth December 1955, propose to cancel the said 
licence No. A 136219/56/AU/JCCI/Bom. dated the 9th 
October 1956, unless sufficient cause against this is 
furnished to the Chief Controller of Imports, Church 
Hoad Hutments, New Delhi, within ten days of the date 
of issue of this notice by the s£ld M/s. Chitrayug, 
Koinapur, or any bank or any other party who may be 
interested in it. 

2. In view of what is stated above M/s. Chitrayug, 
Kolhapur, or any bank or any other party who may be 
interested in the said licence No. A 130219/ 56/ AU/ 
JCCI/Bom., dated the 9th October 1956. are hereby 
directed not to enter into any further commitments 
against the said lifence and return it immediately to 
the Chief Controller of Imports, New Delhi. 

No. CCI/SPE/6/57/885. — Whereas there is reason to 
believe that licence No. A 136215/56/AU/JCCI/Bom., 
dated the 9th October 1956, valued at Rs. 5,000/- for 
import of News Print from the Soft Currency Area ex 
cept. South Africa, granted by the Joint Chief Controller 
of Imports and Exports, Bombay, to M/s. Kolhapur 
Vritya Daily, Kolhapur, was obtained on misrepresenta- 
tion of facts, it is, therefore hereby notified, that the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and 
Consumer Industries, in exercise of the powers specified 
in paragraph 9 of the Imports (Control) Order. 1955, 
dated the 7th December 1905, propose to cancel the suiu 
licence No. A 136215/56/AU/JCCI/Bom., dated the 9th 
October 1956, unless sufficient cause against this is fur- 
nished to the Chief Controller of Imports, Church Road 
Hutments, New Delhi, within ten days of the dale of 
issue of this notice by the said M/s. Kolhapur Vritya 
Daily, Kolhapur, or any bank or any other party who 
may be interested in it. 

2. In view of what is stated above M/s. Kolhapur 
Vritya Daily, Kolhapur, or any bank or any other party 
who may he interested In the said licence No. A 136215/ 
56/ AU/ JCCI/Bom. dated the 9th October 1956, are 
hereby directed not to enter into any further commit- 
ments aguinst the said licence and return It imme- 
diately to the Chief Controller of Imports, New Delhi. 

NO. CCI/SPE/6/57/899 — Whereas their is reason 
to believe that licence No. A1 362K1/56/AU/JCCI/ 
Bern., dated the 9th October 1956, valued at Rs. 5000/- 
for import of News Print from Ihe Soft Currency 
Area except South Africa, granted by the Joint Chief 
Coni roller of Imports & Exports, Bombay, to M/s. 
Samaj Weekly, Kolhpur, was obtained on misrepre- 
sentation of facts, it is, therefore hereby notified, that 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce 
and Consumer Industries, in exorcise of the powers 
specified in para 9 of the ImporLs (Control) Order 
1955, dated the 7th December 1955, propose to can- 
cel the said licence No. A136218/56/AIJ/JCCI/Bom„ 
dated the 9th Octoher 1956, unless sufficient cause 
against this is furnished to the Chief Controller of 
Imports, Church Road Hutments, New Delhi, within 
ten days of tho dale of issue of this notice by the 
said M/s Samaj Weekly, Kolhapur, or any bank or 
any other party who may be interested in it. 

2. In view of what is stated above M/s. Samaj 
Weekly, Kolhapur, or any bank or any other party 
who may be interested in the s aid licence No, A136218/ 
56/AU /JCCI/Bom., dated the (Uh October 1956, ar c 
hereby directed not to enter into any further com- 
mitments against the said licence and return it im- 
mediately to the Chief Controller of Imports, New 
Delhi. 


[Paht I— Sec. 1 


No. CCI/SPE/5/57/801. — Whereas there is reason to 
oellcve that licence No. A 129549/56/AU/JCCl/Bom, 
dated the 23rd August 1950 valued at Rs, 5,000/- for 
import of News Print, from the Soft Currency Area 
except South Africa, granted by the Joint Chief Con- 
troller of Imports and Exports, Bombay to M/s. 
Samajwadi Weekly, Bombay was obtainecl on misrepre- 
sentation of facts, it is, therefore hereby notified, that 
the Government of India In the Ministry of Commerce 
and Consumer Industries in exercise of the powers 
specified in para 9 of the Imports (Control; Order, 
1955, dated the 7th December 1955 propose to cancel 
the said licence No. A129549/56/AU/JCCI/Boni. dated 
the 23rd August 1956 unjess sufficient cause against 
this is furnished to tho Chief Controller of Imports, 
Church Road Hutments, New Delhi, within ten days 
of the date of issue of this notice by the said M/s. 
Samajwadi Weekly, Bombay or any bank or any other 
party who may be interested in it. 

2. In view of what is stated above M/s. Samajwadi 
Weekly, Bombay, or any bank or any other party who 
may be Interested in the said licence No. A129549/5U/ 
AU/JCCI/Bom. dated the 23rd August 1956, are here- 
hy directed not to enter into any further commitments 
against the said licence and return it immediately to 
the Chief Controller of Imports, New Delhi, 

No. CCI/SPE/5/57/815,— Whereas there Is reason to 
believe that licence No. A129479/56/AU/JCCI/Bom. 
dated the 10th August 1956, valued at Rs. 5,000/- for 
import of News Print from the Soft Currency Area 
except South Africa, granted by the Joint Chief Con- 
troller of Imports and Exports, Bombay to M/s. Free 
Thought Weekly, Bombay was obtained on misrepre- 
sentation of facts, it is, therefore hereby notified, that 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce 
and Consumer Industries in exercise of the powers 
specified in para 9 of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955, 
dated the 7th December 1955, propose to cancel the 
said licence No. A129479/56/AU/JCCI/Born. dated the 
Kith August 1950, unless sufficient cause against this 
is furnished to the Chief Controller of Imports, Church 
Road Hutments, New Delhi, within ten days of the 
date of issue of this notice by the said M/s. Free 
Thought Weekly, Bombay, or any bank or any other 
party who may be interested in it. 

:>■ In view of what is stated above M/s. Free Thought 
Weekly, Bombay, or any bank or any other party who 
may be interested in the said licence No. A129479/56/ 
AU/JCCI/Bom. dated the 10th August 1956, are here- 
by directed not to enter into any further commitments 
against the said licence and return it Immediately t.o 
the Chief Controller of Imports, Now Delhi. 

No. CCI/SPE/5/57/829.— Whereas there is reason to 
believe that licence No. A129546/56/AU/JCCl/Bom 
dated the 23rd August I960, valued at Rs. 5,000/- lor 
import of News Print from the Soft Currency Area 
except South Africa, granted by the Joint Chief Con- 
troller of Imports and Exports, Bombay to M/s. The 
Bombay Guardian, Bombay was obtained on misrepre- 
sentation of facts, it is, therefore hcrehy notified, that 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce 
and Consumer Industries in exorcise of the powers 
specified in para 9 of tho Imports (Control) Order, 
1955, dated the 7th December 1955, propose to cancel 
Ihe said licence No. A12954G/5t>/AU/JCCI/Bom. dated 
the 23rd August 1956 unless sufficient cause against 
this is furnished to the Chief Controller of Imports, 
Church Road Hutments New Delhi, within ten days 
of the date of issue of this notice by the said M/s. The 
Bombay Guardian, Bombay, or any bank or any other 
Party who may be interested in it. 

2. In view of what Is stated above M/s. The Bombay 
Guardian, Bombay, or any bank or any other party 
who may be interested in the said licence No. A129546"/ 
56/AU/ JCCI/Bom. dated the 23rd August 1956 are 
hereby directed not to enter into any further commit- 
ments against the said licence and return it immediate- 
ly. to the Chief Controller of Imports, New Delhi. 

No. CCI/SPE/5/57/843. — Whereas there is reason to 
itlicve that licence No. AI29147/50/AU'JCCI/Bom, 
dated the 2 1st July 1950, valued at Rs, 5,000/- for 
import of News Print from the Soft Currency Area 
except South Africa, granted by the Joint Chief Con- 
troller of Imports ft Exports, Bombay to M/s. Bombay 
Illustrated Weekly, Bombay was obtained on misrepre- 
sentation of facts, it is, therefore hereby notified that 
the Government of India In the Ministry of Commerce 
and Consumer Industries in exercise of the powers 
specified in para 9 oi the Imports (Control) Order, 
1955, dated the 7th December 1955 nronose to cancel 
the said licence No. A129147/50/AU/JCCI/Bom dated 
ihe 21st July 1956, unless sufficient cause against this 
is furnished to the Chief Controller of Imports Church 
Road Hutments, New Delhi, within ten days’ of the 
date- of issue of this notice by the said M/s. Bombay 



Part 1— Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1957 55 


Illustrated Weekly, Bombay or any bank or any other 
party who may be interested in it. 

2. In view of what is stated above M's. Bombay 
Illustrated Weekly, Bombay or any bank or any other 
party who may be interested in the said licence No. 
A1 291‘17/56/AU/,lCCI/BOm. dated the 21st July 1956, 
art hereby directed not to enter into any further com- 
mitments against the said licence and return It Imme- 
diately to the Chief Controller of Imports, New Delhi. 

S. N. BILGRAMI, Jt. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEAVY INDUSTRIES 

RESOLUTION 

Neai Delhi, the 1 6th February 1957 

No. ME.Ind 12(36) /5G. — With a view to drawing up 
programmes tor the development oi the Refractory In- 
dustry, with particular reference to the requirements 
Of the Iron and Steel Industry, on rational lines, it has 
been decided to set up a Panel for the Iiefi aclory in- 
dustry. 

The Panel will consist of — 

1. Dr. S P, Varma, Development Officer, Develop- 

ment Wins, Ministry ot Heavy Industries..,, 
Conver 

2. Slin K.S Raghupati, I.A S., Deputy Secretary, 

Ministry of Iron & Steel. 

3. Shri K. Vyasulu, Director (Industry), Planning 

Commission. 

4. Dr. H. K. Mitra [Refractories Engineer. The 

Tata Iron & Steel Co. Lad , Jamshedpur 

5. Mr. W. D. Holton, The Refractory Makers' 

Association, Chartered Bank Buildings, Cal- 
cutta— 1. | 

6. Shri N. C. Roy, Director, Orissa Cement Ltd., 4, 

Daihousre Square, Stephen Home, Calcutta — 1. 

7 Dr. Atina Ram, Dnoetur, Central Glass and 
Cciumic Rcscardh Institute, Calcutta, 

f). Shri T. Gupta, Hind Lamps Ltd., Shikohabud. 

9, Shri 1 J . B. Adur, Assistant Manager, Associated 
Cement Companies, Ltd , Kyinorc Cement 
Works, P. O. Kymorc ( Via Jukehi), Central 
Railway (M.P.). 

2. The iunctions of the! Panel would be: — 

(i) To study the Leqhnical working ol the* pie sent 
units taking lino account Hie raw materials 
available, equipment Used and manufacturing 
methods adopted. 

(n) To study the extent to which such of the units 
as are not utilising capacity to Hie maximum 
extent bo assisted lo step up their production. 

tiii) To examine the performance charctcnslics of 
me prevent types or rerraciuries product d and 
wheiiic'i nicy tonloim to specirieauons requned 
oy tne duiorcnl consuming industries ana sug- 
gest sUildtJie moditicftctons wnere nccessUiy 
vviin a view to ensuring mat common standards 
and specifications are drawn up for all tne units 
producing the Jamc products, e.y., iron and 
steel. 

(lv) To prepare a deLaned and phased production 
plan ior Hie iiexl live yearn on Ihe basis or 
existing capacity and additional cupacily licen- 
sed. 

(v) To examine the present availability and assess 
ruturc requirements or technical personnel ana 
steps to be taken to initiate training to techni- 
cal stall ior emcpint utilisation ot the capacity, 
increasing the production, and meeting the 
specifications. > 

(vi) in the event of surplus capacity being avail- 
able, to recommend tile steps mat should be 
taken foi creating an export market. 

Ordered that a copy ot (he above Resolution be com- 
municated to all the Elate Goveiiimcnts, all the Minis- 
tries ot the Government oi India, Cabinet Scirctaiiui, 
Prime Minister’*, Secretariat, and the Planning t’om- 
pnssion. 

Ordered also lhat it be published in (he Gazette of 
India. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

RESOLUTIONS 

New Delhi-2, the 5th February 1957 
duiUH’i: All India Council for Secondary Education. 

No. D. 419/57-D-6(RHE). — In partial modification of 
the Government ot India (Ministry ot Education 
Resolution No, F. 18-2/55-D-l., dated the 1st August, 
1955, icgardlng the settmg up of the All India Council 
lo* Secondary Education, the President is pleased to 
order that the following may be substituted for ihe 
mu, sling paragraph 5 of the above mentioned Resolu- 
tion : — 

“5 Tenure of Office 

Tne tenure of office of all members — official and 
non-official (other than ex-officio members) for the first 
time shall be 3 years reckoned from the first duy of 
the lust meeting of the Council and the term oi office 
of all official and non-official members subsequently 
nominated snail be three years reckoned from appro- 
pi rate anniversary ol the day; provided that a member 
nominated under sub-clause (cj, (g) and (hf above shall 
cease to be a member of the Council, it he ceases to 
be membei of the Central Advisory Board of Educa- 
tion, the All India Council lor Technical Education or 
the Inter-Univvisity Board as the case may be. All 
casual vacancies among the members (other than 
ex-officio members) shall be filled by the authority or 
body who nominated the member whose place falls 
vacant and the person appointed to a casual vacancy 
shall be a member of the Council for the rebidue of 
the term ior which the person whose place he fills 
would have been a member.” 

Order: — Ordered that a copy of the Resolution be 
communicated to All members of tho All India Coun- 
cil for Secondary Education, All State Governments 
and Union Territories, All Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India, Inter- University Board ; Senate House, 
Tripiicane, Madras, All India Council for Technical 
Education (T-2J, All India Council for Secondary Edu- 
cation, 4/19, Asafali Road, Delhi. 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the 
Gazette of India foi general information. 

New Delhi , the 5th February 11)57 

No F, ( 1-15/ jfi-D.2. — In partial modification of the 
Ministry oi Education Resolution No. F. 12-15/56-D.2. , 
c.au.i ihe 3rd October, 1956, the Government of India 
have decided to nominate Shri G. L. Mclita, Deputy 
Stciel.uy to the Government of India, as representa- 
tive ol the Ministry of Finance on the Central Social 
Wcltare Board in place of Shri K. Sachidanandam 
previously nominated. 

2. Oideied that this Resolution he published in the 
Gazelle of India, 

3. Ordered also that a copy of this Resolution be 
c immiUiieaiod to all the Members of the Central 
Social Wcliaie Board, all the Ministries oi the Govern- 
ment oi India, all the State Governments, Planning 
Commission, Cabinet Secretariat, Prime Minister’s 
Srcit'tailai, Lok Sabha Secretariat, Ra-jya Sabha Sec- 
l tl f tint, the Department of Parliamentary AtTairs the 
Accountant General, Central Revenue, and the Press 
Information Bureau, 

R. K. BHAN, Dy. Edl. Adviser. 


RESOLUTION 

New Dclhi-2, the 7th February 1957 

No. F, 16-8/53-H2. — Dated the 7th October, 1953 as 
amended irom lime to time upto 3()th January 1957. 

NATIONAL ACADEMY OF ART, NEW DELHI. 

Whereas it is considered oxtiedient lo establish a 
national organisation lo ioster and co ordinate activities 
in the spncrc ot visual and plastic arts and promote 
iheii.b.v the cultuial unity ol the country, it Is hereby 
resolved as iollows: — 

A Nationa 1 Academy oi Art, to be called ‘‘Lalit Kala 
Akadami” shall be established. 

L. ilcndip nrlers -- The headquarters of the Akadami 
shall be at Now Delhi, but they may be shifted to an- 
olhei pln<_c with the consent of four-fifths of the mem- 
1 id s ot the Akadami. 

3 Orijnn i nation and Functions. — (a) The Akadami 
shall be a coi poratc body, shall have a perpetual seal 
and may sue and be sued in its corporate name. 


B. E SAKSENA, Joint Secy 



5 <* 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 16, 10S? [Part I— Sec. 1 


(b) It shall have the following powers and functions, 
namely: — 

(1) To encourage and promote study and research 
in the field of painting, sculpture and archi- 
tecture and applied arts; 

(li) to co-ordinate the activities of the regional or 
State Academies; 

(iil) to promote co-operation among artists and art 
associations and to encourage the establish- 
ment and development of such associations- 

(iv) to encourage the setting up of institutions to 

provide training and research in various fields 
of art; 

(v) to encourage, where necessary, the establish- 
ment of regional Art Centres; 

(vi) to encourage the exchange of Ideas between 
various schools of art by organising con- 
ferences, seminars, exhibitions on an all India 
basis and to encourage each conferences etc. 
on a regional basis also; 

(vli) to publish and to promote publication of litera- 
ture on Art, including monographs, journals, 
art albums, etc.; 

(viii) to establish and maintain a library, catering to 
the needs of various organisations and covering 
both Indian and foreign Art, 

(ix) to give recognition and to otherwise assist app- 
roved Art associations; 

(x) To foster cultural contacts within the country 
and also with other countries, throug Art ex- 
hibitions, exchange of personnel and Art ob- 
jects, etc.; 

(xi) to award scholarships and prizes to deserving 
artists; 

(xli) to accord recognition to artists for outstanding 
achievements; 

(xili) to encourage and foster the revival and de- 
velopment of Folk Art- 

(xiv; to promote the study of traditional art and 
craft techniques and to organise regional sur- 
veys of and to encourage surviving indigenous 
onftsmen, painters and sculptors; 

(xv) in furtherance of its objects and work, to pur- 
chase land, own properly of all kinds and to 
maintain, sell, mortgage or otherwise dispose 
of the same; and 

(xvi) to do all such other acts and things, whether 
incidental to the powers aloresaid or not, as 
may be required in order to further its objects. 

4. Officers of the Akadami/ — The following shall be 
Ihe officers of the Akndami, namely: — 

(i) Chairman; 

(ii) Vice-Chairman; 

(iii) Treasurer; and 

(iv) Secretary. 

5 Chairman . — The Chairman shall he appointed by 
the President of India and shall hold office for a term 
of live years. 

6. Vice-Chairman. — (i) The Vice-Chairman shall be 
elected by the General Council of the Akarlami from 
among its members and shall hold office for five years; 

(ii) The Vice-Chairman shall, in the absence of the 
Chairman, for whatever reason, exercise all the func- 
tions and powers of the Chairman. 

7. Treasurer. — (i) The Treasurer shall be appointed 
by the Go\ ornment of India for such period as the 
latter may determine. 

(ii) The Treasurer shall — 

(a) subject to the control of the Executive Board 
of the Akadaml, manage the property and 
investments of the Akadami and be responsible 
for the preparation of the annual estimates 
and statements of accounts and tor their pre- 
sentation to the Executive Board and the 
General Council; 

(b) subjqct to the powers of the Executive Board, 
he responsible for the ulilizafiou oi all moneys 
for the purpose for which they are granted or 
allotted, 

(c) sign all contracts made on behalf of the Aka- 
dami; and 

(d) exercise such other jrowers as may be assigned 
to him by the Executive Board. 

(ill) The receipt oi the Treasurer or of Ihe person or 
persons duly authorised in this behalf by the Executive 
Board for any money paid into the Akadami shall be 
sufficient discharge for the same. 


8. Secretary. — (ij The Secretary shall be the principal 
executive officer of Ihe Akadami and shall be appointed 
by the Executive Board for such period and on such 
terms and conditions as the Executive Board may de- 
termine; 

Provided that the first Secretary shall be appointed 
by the Government of India for a period not exceeding 
two years on such terms and conditions as the Govern- 
ment may specify: 

(Hi The Secretary shall be cx-offlcio Secretary of the 
General Council, the Executive Board, the Finance 
Committee and all other Standing Committees which 
may be set up by the General Council or the Executive 
Board but shall not be deemed to be a member of any 
of these authorities. 

(iii) It shall be the duty of the Secretary- 

fa) to be the custodian of the records and such 
other property of the Akadami as the Execu- 
tive Board may commit to his charge; 

(b) to conduct the official correspondence on behalf 
of the authorities of the Akadami; 

(c) to issue all notices convening meetings of the 
authorities of the Akadami and of all commit- 
tees appointed by any of those authorities; 

(d) to keep the minutes of all meetings of the 
authorities of the Akadami and of all commit- 
tees appointed by any of those authorities; and 

(e) to maintain the accounts of the Akadami under 
the supervision of the Treasurer, 

0. Authorities of the Akadami. — The following shall 
be the authorities of the Akadami : — 

(a) The General Council; 

(b) The Executive Board; 

(c) The Finance Committee; and 

(d) Any other Standing Committee or Committees 
which the General Council or the Executive 
Board may set up for discharging any one or 
more of their functions. 

10. General Council. — The General Council shall con- 
sist of the following, namely: — 

(i) Chairman. 

(ii) Treasurer 

(iii) Director, National Museum or, if there is no 
Director, such officer of the National Museum 
as may be nominated by the Government of 
India ior that purpose. 

(iv) Curator of the National Gallery of Modern 
Art. 

(v) Five persons nominated by the Government of 
India. 

(vi) One person nominated by each State Govern- 
ment. 

(vli) Fifteen representatives elected in accordance 
with the rules to be framed by the Akadami, 
by Art organisations and institutions recog- 
nised by the Akadami; 

Provided that out of the first group so elected one 
third shall retire after two years and another 
one-third after four years and the remaining 
one-third after the fifth year, the persons so 
to retire to be selected by drawing lots accord- 
ing t 0 the procedure to be decided by the 
General Council; 

Provided further that members who thus retire 
shall be eligible for re-election, 

(viii) Nine eminent Indian artists to be elected in 
their individual capacity by the General Coun- 
cil: 

Provided that for the first term they shall be 
appointed by the Government of India In 
consultation with the State Governments : 

Provide I further that out of the first group so 
appointed one-third shall retire after two 
years and another one-third after four years 
and the remaining one-third after the fifth 
year, the persons so tn retire to be selected by 
drawing lots according to the procedure to be 
laid down by the General Council : 

Provided further that members who thus T ’etirw 
shall he eligible for re-election. 

(ix) Two representatives each of the Kangcet 
Natak Akadami and the Sahitya Akadami. 



Part 1 — Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1937 


57 


11. Functions of the General Council . — The General 
Ofiuneil shall have the following functions and powers. 

mz. : — 

(a) To elect a Vice-Chau man; 

(b) to elect members ot the Executive Board in 
accordance with paragraph 13(v) and to pres- 
cribe the rules of procedure of the Executive 
Board; 

<r) to elect members of the Finance Committee In 
accordance with paragraph 15(iit) and to 
proscribe the rules of procedure of the Finance 
Committee; 

(d) to approve the annual budget of the Akadami 
drawn up by the Executive Board; 

(c) to appoint auditors unless Government of India 
arranges for the audit through the Comptrol- 
ler and Auditor-General; 


(h) subject to the budgetary limits and the policy 
directive, if any, of the General Council to 
grant financial assistance to organisations and 
institutions recognised by the Akadami: 

(li to nqpiinate a member o"f the Finance Com- 
mittee In accordance with item (ivj of para- 
graph 15 of this Resolution; 

(. 1 ) to nominate a person or persons to represent 
the Akadami in national and Ini ernational 
conferences or organisations; and 
(It) to appoint the Secretary of the Akadami and 
other members of the stall’ except those the 
power to appoint whom is generally or speci- 
fically delegated by It. to the Chairman or the 
Secretary or to any other officer or committee. 

15. Finance Committee. — The Finance Committee 
shall <ons si of the following members, namely: — 


(£) (i> to elect, on the recommendation of Ike 
Executive Board outstanding artists as Fellows 
of the Akadami by a majority of at least three 
fourths of the members present and voting 
provided that the number of Fellows shall at 
no time exceed 30 

(il) to elect as Associate Fellows of the Akadami 
on Ihe recommendation of the Executive Board 
and by a majority of at least thrce-fourtlis of 
the members present and voting such persons 
as have rendered distinguished service lei 
Indian Aft; 

Provided that thi number ol such Associate 
Fellows shall at no time exceed sixty, of whom 
not more than five may be other than Indians. 

(fi) to grant recognition on the recommendation of 
the Executive Board, to organisations and 
institutions rendering useful service to Art; 

(h) to consider and approve programmes proposed 
by the Executive Board; 

fi) to frame its regulations, bye-laws and rules of 
procedure; and 

(j) to do any othor such acts as may be necessary 
for th^ maintenance of the Organisation and 
performance of the functions of the Akadami 

12, Meetings ot the General Council . — The General 
Council shall ordinarily meet once every year at a 
place and on a date in October to be fixed by the 
Chairman A special! meeting may be called at any 
other lime by the Chairman or by the Executive Bourd 
either on lt b own initiative or at the request of not less 
than two-thirds of the whole number of members of 
the General Council. 


(i) The Treasurer, who will be the Chairman of the 
Committee; 

(il) One nominee of the Government of India not 
necessarily from among the members of the 
General Council; 

fin) Two representatives of the General Council; 
and 

(iv) One nominee of the Executive Board not 
necessarily from among the members of the 
General Council. 

Ill {''unctions of the Finance Committee , — The Finance 
Committee shall consider the budget estimates of Ihe 
Akadami. make recommendations thereon to the Exe- 
cutive Board and prescribe the total limits for expendi- 
ture within a financial year. 

17 General, — (i) Any rule made or decision taken by 
the General Council or by any authority of the Aka- 
dami except the authority acts In accordance with its 
powers and functions as defined in this constitution, 
may be am nded or set aside by the General Council. 

(ii) The General Council may. by a majority of not 
less than throe-fourths of the members present and 
voting request the Government of India to amend this 
( (institution in such manner as the General Council 
i nnv decide 

Order 

Oidercrl lhat a copy of this Resolution be communi- 
cate I to all State Governments (for Information and 
due publicity) 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the 
Gazelle of India for general information. 


13 Executive Board . — The Executive Board shall 
consist of the following members, namely: — 


ASHFAQUE HUSAIN, Jt. Secy. 


(i) Chairman of the General Council; 

(ii) Vice-Chairman of the General Council; 

(ill) Treasurer; 

(iv) Three members nominated by the Govern- 
ment of India from among the’r nominees on 
the General Council; and 

(v) Nine members to be eleefed by the General 
Council. 

14 Functions of the Executive Board . — The Exe- 
cutive Board shall have the following functions and 
powers, namely: — 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS (RAILWAY BOARD) 

New Delhi, the 7th February 1957 

No. 36/W/160/23 — It is hereby notified for general 
information that the Government Inspector of Railways 
Bangalore having inspected the Emakulam South-Kot- 
tayam Section of Ernakulam-quilon Railway, Southern 
Railway, a length of 37-23 miles on the Metre gauge, 
authorised its opening for the public carriage of pas- 
sengers with effect from 17-10-56. 

New Delhi, the 1 6th February, 1957 


(a) to exercise the Executive authority of the 
Akadami subject to the supervision of the 
General Council; 

(b) to be responsible for the supervision and con- 
trol of the work of the Akadami and Its office; 

(c) to prepare the programmes of the Akadami 
fo r the consideration and approval of the 
General Council; 

(d) to draw up the annual budget of the Akadami, 
subject to the total financial limits prescribed 
by the Finance Committee, to be submitted for 
the approval of the' General Council; 

(e) to prepare the annua] report and accounts of 
the Akadami for the consideration of the Gene- 
ral Council; 

(f) subject to the provision of item (f) of paragraph 

11 of this Resolution, to consider and propose 
to the General Council names of eminent 
artists and Others for election as Fellows or 
Associate Fellows of the Akadami; 

(g) to consider and propose to the General Coun- 
cil names of important Art organisations and 
Institutions deserving recognition from the 
Akadami; 


No. E(GR)56RR7-1.— The following Rules and Regu- 
lations for recruitment to the Mechanical Engineering 
and Transportation (Power) Department of tne Supe- 
rior Revenue Establishment of the Indian Railways are 
published for general information: — - 

RULES 

PART I— GENERAL 
(Method of Recruitment) 

1. These Rules may be called the Mechanical Engi- 
neering and Transportation (Power) Department of 
the Superior Revenue Establishment of Indian Rail- 
ways Recruitment Rules. 

2. For the purpose of these Rules — 

(a) "Government” means the Government of 
India, 

(b) “The Commission” means the Union Public 
Service Commission. 

(c) “The Service” means service in the Mechanical 
Engineering and Transportation (Power) 
Department of the Superior Revenue Estab- 
lishment of Indian Railways. 



[Part I — Sec. 1 


58 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 18, 1957 


(d) "Scheduled Castes” means any castes, com- 
munities, races, sects, etc , notified as such 
by the President ol India (See Appendix IV). 

(e) “Scheduled Tribes” means any casles, com- 
munities, races, sects, etc , notified as such by 
the President of India (Sec Appendix V) 

14. The Service shall be recruited bv the following 
methods: — 

(a) By appointment of candidates as Special Cl a: s 
Apprentices on the results o) an examina- 
tion to be held in India in accordance with 
Part II of these Rules 

(b) By competitive examination held in India in 
accordance with Part III of these Rules 

(cl By promotion of specially qualified offleeis 
of the Class II Service, including officiating 
officers in the Mechanical Engineering and 
Transportation (Power) Department. 

(d) By occasional admission of other qualified 
persons appointed by the President in con- 
sultation with the Commission. 

Note. — Candidates selected as Special Class Ap- 
prentices under Rule 3 (a) shall bo required to un- 
dergo practical and theoretual training For the period 
and courses of training and the terms and conditions 
of apprenticeship see Appendix 1 

4 Subject to the provisions of Rule ,1 Government 
shall determine the method or methods to he 
emploved for the pm pose of filling any particular 
vacancies, or such vacancies as may require to be filled 
during any particular period and the number of can- 
didates to be r< cruited by each method. 

5 Appointments to the Sei vice made otherwise than 
by promotion will be subject to order s Issued from 
time to tune by the Ministry ol Horne AT airs regard- 
ing special lcpresentation in the Service 1 ; foi speutic 
sections of the people. 

PART II 

QUtU.ll K'ATlONS Of CANDIDATES AND METHODS OF SELEC- 
TION of SrrciAi Ci ass Acprentices recruited 
undi n Rule 3(a) 

fl. An examination for selection of candidates foi 
appointment .is Special Class apprentices In the 
Mechanical Engineering & Transportation (Power) 
Department of the Superior Revenue Establishment of 
Indian Railways shall bo held in India at. such times 
and places as may be pi escribed in the Notice issued 
by the Commission. Every such notice will when 
possible announce the number of vacancies to be filled 
on the result of the examination. 

7. The maximum number of candidates to he admit- 
ted to the examination may at the discretion of the 
Commission be limited to such number as the Com- 
mission may decide. If a limit is imposed and the 
number of candidates exceeds that limit, the Union 
Public Service Commission shall select from among the 
applicants those who shall be admitted to the exami- 
nation and shall have regard In so doing to the suita- 
bility of the applicants for appointment as Special Class 
Apprentices. 

8. A candidate for admission to the examination 
must apply before such date, In such form and In such 
manner as may be prescribed by the Commission. 

f). A candidate must be either — 

(i) a citizen of India, or 
(11) a subject of Sikkim, or 

(ill) a person who has migrated from areas which 
now form Pakistan or from the unliberated 
areas of Jammu and Kashmir with the inten- 
tion of permanently settling in India, or 

(iv) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or 
a former French possession in India. 

Note 1. — The appointment of candidates In categories 
(Iii) and (iv) above will be subject to the issue of 
certificates of eligibility in their favour by the Gov- 
ernment of India. Certificates of eligibility will not, 
however, be necessary in the case of candidates 
belonging to any of the following categories' — 

(i) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan 
before 19th July, 1948 and have ordmnrily 
been resident in India since then. 

(ii) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan 
after 18th July, 1948 but before 30th Septem- 
ber, 1948 and got themselves registered as 
citizens within the time allowed. 


(iii) Non-citizens who entered service under the 
Government of India before, the commence- 
ment of the Constitution, 1 nz., 26th January 
1950 and who have continued in such service 
since then. Any such person who re-entered, 
or may re-enter such service with a break 
after the 26th January 1950 will howevci 
require certificates of eligibility in the usual 
way. 

Note 2. — A candidate in whose case a certificate of 
eligibility is necessary may be admitted to the exami- 
nation and ho may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate betng eventually 
issued in his favour by Government. 

10 (a) No male candidate who has more than one 
wife living shall be eligible for appointment as Special 
Class Railway Apprentice on the results of this exami- 
nation unless the Government of India aPer being 
satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, 
exempt him from the operation of this rule 

(b) No female candidate who has married a person 
having already a wife living shall be eligible for ap- 
pointment as 0 Special Class Railway Apprentice on 
the results of this examination unless the Government 
of India after being satisfied that there Hre special 
grounds lor doing so, exempt her from the operation 
of this rule. 

11. A candidate must have attained the age of 1G 
years and must not have attained the age of 19 years 
on the 3rd day of August 1956 

Note. — T he upper age limit will be relaxable — 

u) upto a maximum of live years if a candidate 
belongs to a Si heriuled Caste or a Scheduled 
Tribe; 

(li) upto a maximum of tliiec years if a candidate 
is a buna Jidr displaced person from Pakistan 
or from the unlibciated areas of Jammu and 
Kashmir. Tills connection will not, however, 
be admissible to a candidate who has already 
appeared at three previous examinations/ 
selections; 

(iii) upto a max'inum of eight yea’s if a candi- 
date belongs to a Scheduled Caste or a Sche- 
duled Tribes and is also a bonn fide displaced 
person from Pakistan or from the unliberated 
areas of Jammu and Kashmir. This conces- 
sion will not, however, be admissible to a 
candidate who has already appeared at eight 
previous examinations/ selections. 

(iv ) upto a maximum of thiee years if a candidate 
belongs to the former French Settlements which 
have now become pait of India and has been 
receiving his education through the medium of 
French. 

(v) upto a maximum of four years if a candidate 
is a resident of the Andaman and Nicobar 
Islands. 

Save as provided above, the age limits prescribed 
ian in no case be relaxed 

Candidates from the former French Settlements will 
he eligible for this age concession for admission to any 
examination which may be held up to the end of 1961. 

12 A candidate — 

(a) must have passed 111 the first or second divi- 
sion the Intermediate Examination of a Uni- 
versity or Board approved by the Government 
of India, with Mathematics and at least one 
of the subjects Physics and Chemistry as sub- 
jects of the examination 

Graduates with Mathematics and at least one of 
the subjects Physics and Chemistry as their 
degree subjects may also apply; or 

(b) must have passed the Pre-engineering Exa- 
mination of the Delhi Polytechnic or the 
Saugar University in the (list or second divi- 
sion; or 

(c) must have passed the first year examination 
under the three-year degree course of the Delhi 
University with Mathematics and at least one 
of the subjects Physics and Chemistry as sub- 
jects of the examination and must have been 
promoted to the second year provided that 
before mining the degree course he passed the 
Higher Secondary Examination or the Matri- 
culation or equivalent examination in the first 
or second division or obtained the Cambridge 
School Perl itu ale with at least five credits in- 
cluding crcrlil s in Mathematics- and at least in 
one of the suujecls Physics and Chemistry 

Note 1. —Candidates who arc not awarded any specific 
division by the University/Board either In their Inter- 
mediate or any othei examination mentioned above, 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1957 


59 


Part I — Sec, 1] 


will be considered educationally eligible provided 
their aggregate of marks falls within the range of 
marks for first or second division as prescribed by the 
University Board concerned. 

Note 2,— Candidates who have appeared at an exa- 
mination the passing of which would render them 
eligible to appear at the examination but have not 
been informed of the result, may apply for admission 
to the examination. Candidates who intend to appear 
at such a qualifying examination may also apply pro- 
vided that the qualifying examination is completed 
before the commencement of thi3 examination. Their 
application will' Be accepted provisionally and they 
will be required to furnish proof of having passed the 
examination not later than the last week of September, 
1957. 

Provided that in exceptional cases the Commission 
may treat as a qualified candidate, a candidate who, 
though he has not all cxr any of the qualifications pres- 
cribed in this rule, has passed examinations conducted 
by other institutions of a standard which in the opinion 
of the Commission justifies his admission to the exami- 
nation. 

13. A candidate must 'be in good mental and bodily 
health and free from anv physical defect likely to 
interfere with the discharge of his duties as an officer 
of the Service. 

A candidate who (after such physical examination 
as Government or the appointing authority, as the case 
may be, may prescribe), is found not to satisfy those 
requirements will not be appointed. 

14. A candidate must satisfy the Commission that he 
is suitable in all respects for employment in the Rail- 
way Services. 

15. No candidate shall be admitted to the examina- 
tion unless he holds a Certificate of admission from the 
Union Pi'bMc Service Commission, 

The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility 
or otherwise of a candidate for admission to the exami- 
nation shall be final. 

16. A candidate found guilty of impersonation or of 
submitting fabricated documents or documents which 
have been tampered with or of making statements 
which are incorrect oir false or suppressing material 
information or of uslni or attempting to use unfair 
means In the examination hall or otherwise resorting 
to any other irregular or improper means for obtaining 
admission to the examination may. in addition to 
rendering himself liable to a criminal prosecution, be 
debarred either permanently or for a specified period:— 

(a) by the Commission from admission to any 
examination or appearance at any interview 
held by the Commission for selection of candi- 
dates; and 

(b) by the Central Government from employment 
under the Government. 

17. No recommendations except those invited in the 
application form will be taken into consideration. Any 
attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain support 
for his candidature by other means may disqualify him 
for appointment, 

18. The examination will be conducted by the Com- 
mission in the manner prescribed in Appendix II to 
these Rules. 

19. Candidates must pay the fees prescribed in 
Appendix III. 

No claim for a refund of any of these fees will ordi- 
narily be entertained except to the extent stated in 
that Appendix nor can they be held in reserve for any 
examination or selection. 

20. Candidates who qualify at the written examina- 
tion may at the discretion of the Commission be sub- 
jected to another simple qualifying test. Only those 
candidates who qualify at this test will be interviewed. 

21. After every examination the Commission shall 
prepare a list of selected candidates in order of merit, 
provided that the candidates are In the opinion of the 
Commission suitable for appointment as Special Class 
Apprentices. Vacancies shall be filled in strict order 
of merit, from the list prepared bv the Commission, 
subject to the orders issued from time to time by the 
Ministry of Home Affairs regarding special represen- 
tation for specific sections of the people and provided 
that the Government of India are satisfied that such 
candidates are in all respects suitable for employment 
in the Railway Service. 


PART III 

Recruitment by Competitive Examination 
(Will be published later ) 

APPENDIX I 

Conditions op Apprenticeship for Special Class 
Apprentices selected under Regulation 3(a) in 
Part I of the Regulations. 

The terms and conditions of Apprenticeship will 
be as set out in the form of agreement prescribed vide 
Form No. 7 of Appendix XXIV of the State Railway 
Establishment Code Volume I, brief particulars of 
which are given below. 

1. A candidate selected for appointment as a Special 
Class Apprentice shall execute an agreement binding 
himself and one surety jointly and severally to re- 
fund in the event of his failing to complete training 
and probation to the satisfaction of the Central Gov- 
ernment Rny moneys paid to him oonsequont on his 
appointment as Apprentice and Probationer. 

The apprentices will be liable to undergo practical 
and theoretical training for 6 years in the first instance 
under an indenture binding them to serve on the 
Indian Railways on the completion of their training 
if their services are required. The continuance of ap- 
prenticeship from year to year will depend on satis- 
factory reports being received from the authorities 
under whom the apprentices may be working. If at 
any t ; me during his apprenticeship, any apprentice 
does not satisfy the superior authorities that he is 
making good progress, he will bo liable to be dis- 
charged from the apprenticeship. 

Note.— The Government of India may at their dis- 
cretion alter or modify the periods and courses of 
training. 

2. The practical and theoretical training referred to 
above will be given in a railway workshop for the 
first four years of their apprenticeship. The appren- 
tices will be granted a stipend of Rs. 100 per mensem 
during the first three years and Rs. 125 per mensem 
in the fourth year. During the first three years the 
apprentices will be required to undergo training in 
four periods of nine months each, six months in the 
shops followed by three months in the technical school, 
and will be examined at the end of each session. If 
unsuccessful at any of these examinations, they will 
be discharged from their apprenticeship. During the 
fourth year they will undergo only practical training 
and prepare for the examination for Associate Mem- 
bership of the Institute of Civil or Mechanical 
Engineers. 

Note.— E xcept as provided for in Rule 5 below or in 
cases of discharge or dismissal due to insubordination, 
intemperance or other misconduct or breach of agree- 
ment, a week’s notice of discharge from apprentice- 
ship will be given. 

3. (a) Before the completion of the 4th year of train- 
ing referred to in Rule 2 above, the apprentices will 
be listed in order of merit on the results of the 
examination held and the reports on the apprentices 
received during the period of apprenticeship. Appren- 
tices to the number of vacancies for which the selec- 
tion was madp In the first instance will be selected in 
direct order of merit for further training for two years 
(See Rule 4 below) provided they have attained the 
qualifying standard; provided further that if any 
vacancies are reserved for any particular community/ 
communities the apprentices belonging to those com- 
munities will he selected on the basis of their position 
in the order of merit to the extent necessary subject 
to their attaining the qualifying standard. 

(b) All those that are not selected for further train- 
ing will be discharged. 

Note. — -An apprentice will be considered to have 
obtained the qualifying standard If he obtains a mini- 
mum of 50 per cent, marks in the aggregate in all 
the examinations held during the 4 years of his train- 
ing including the marks for the reports of the Princi- 
pal. Technical School, and of the Deputy Chief Mecha- 
nical Engineer, provided that in each of the 4 years 
he has obtained a minimum of 45 per cent, marks in 
the aggregate and a minimum of 40 per cent, marks in 
any one subject. 

4. Apprentices put on further training under Rule 3 
will be sent to one or more of the Indian Railways 
for undergoing a further period of training for two 
vears in accordance with the syllabus prescribed for 
the purpose as modified from time to time. The ap- 
prentices may be required to attend after working 



6o 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1957 [Part I- Sec. 1 


hours, a technical college or special lectures on Engi- 
neering subjects. They will have to attend the pres- 
cribed courses at the Baroda Staff College also during 
this period and to qualify therein. The apprentices 
will be given oral test at the end of each phase of 
training during these two years of training and at the 
end of the second year, that is at the end of the 
sixth year of apprenticeship, they will be given 
a written test to be conducted Jointly by the Chief 
Mechanical Engineer and the Chief Operating Super- 
intendent of the Railway to which they are posted on 
the training received by the apprentices during this 
period. The qualifying marks at this test will be 50 
per cent. Before completion of the training, the ap- 
prentices must also qualify for Associate Membership 
of the Institution of Civil or Mechanical Engineers. 
Failure to acquire this qualification within the pres- 
cribed period of training of six years will render them 
liable to termination of their services. During this 
period of training the apprentices will be paid a sti- 
pend of Rs. 200 per mensem. 

5. Unsuccessful apprentices will be discharged from 
their apprenticeship, one month’s notice of discharge 
being given along with the Intimation that the ap- 
prentice has been unsuccessful. 

0. Successful apprentices will be appointed on pro- 
bation for three years on a commencing pay of Rs. 350 
p.m. and posted to the Mechanical Engineering and 
Transportation (Power) Department of the Indian 
Railways for the period of their probation. During 
the probationary period they will have to attend a 
second phase of training in the Railway Staff College, 
Baroda and to qualify in the tests held in the College. 
Before the end of the second year of probation, they 
will be required to undergo a departmental examina- 
tion which will include Accounting and Estimating, 
General and Subsidiary Rules, Factories Act, Work- 
men’s Compensation Act, ability to handle labour and 
general application to work or works on which each 
officer ia engaged while on probation. If they fail to 
pass the departmental examination within the second 
year of the probationary period increment from 
Rs, 350 to Rs- 380 will be stopped. In cases where 
probationary period has to be extended for failing to 
pass all departmental examinations within the sti- 
pulated period, on their passing the departmental exa- 
minations, the drawal of the first and subsequent incre- 
ments will be regulated by rules and orders in force 
from time to time. 

7. The appointment and pay as a probationer will 
commence from (a) the date of completion of six 
years of apprenticeship or (b) the actual date of com- 
pletion of training, whichever is later. Service for in- 
crement will, subject to paragraph six above, count 
from the date of appointment as probationer. 

Note 1. — The retention in service of the probationers 
and the grant of annual Increments are subject to 
satisfactory reports on their work being received at 
the end of each year of probation. 

Note 2. — Service as probationer may be terminated 
on 3 months' notice on either side. 

8. Particulars as to pay and general conditions of 
service prescribed for officers In the Mechanical Engi- 
neering and Transportation (Power) Department of 
the Superior Revenue Establishment of Indian Rail- 
ways will be found in Appendix I-A. 


APPENDIX I-A 

Particulars regarding the Mechanical Engineering 
and Transportation (Power) Department of the 
Superior Revenue Establishment of Indian Rail- 
ways. 

1. A candidate selected under Rule 3 (b) shall on 
appointment as a probationary officer, execute an 
agreement binding himself and on e surety jointly and 
severally to refund in the event of his failing to com- 
plete probation to the satisfaction of the Central Gov- 
ernment, any moneys paid to him consequent on his 
appointment as probationer. 

The probationary officers will be on probation for 
a period of three years during which their services 
will be liable to termination on three months’ notice 
on either side. They shall undergo practical training 
for the first two years. Those favourably reported 
upon at the end of the two years training and who 
have passed any departmental examination or exami- 
nations that may be prescribed will be given charge 
of a working post during the third year of their pro- 
bationary period. At the end of this period, they will 
be required to pass a final practical and theoretical 
departmental examination and will, if successful, be 


confirmed in the Mechanical Engineering and Trans- 
portation (Power) Department, provided that they are 
considered fit for permanent appointment. If they 
fall to pass the departmental examination within the 
two years of their probationary period their incre- 
ments from Rs. 350 to Rs. 380 will bo stopped. In 
cases where the probationary period has to be extend- 
ed for failing to pass all the departmental exami- 
nations within the stipulated period, on their passing 
the departmental examinations and being confirmed 
after expiry of the extended period of probation, the 
drawal of the first and subsequent increments will be 
regulated by rules and orders in force from time to 
time. On confirmation their agreement wii) be con- 
tinued subject to their service being terminable on six 
months’ notice on either side. 

Probationers will also have to undergo training at 
the Railway Staff College, Baroda in 2 phases, the 
first phase during the period of 2 years training and 
the second phase during the period when they hold 
working posts and to qualify in the tests held in the 
College. Probationers will be allowed more than one 
chance to pass the training course, but will not be 
canflrmed till they have passed it, their period of train- 
ing and]or probation being correspondingly extended. 

Note. — The period of training and the period of pro- 
bation against a working post may be modified at the 
discretion of Government. If the period of training 
is extended in any case due to the training not having 
been completed satisfactorily, the total period of pro- 
bation will be correspondingly extended. 

2. Officers will be required to pass a language exa- 
mination in Hindi in Devanagarl script by the lower 
standard modified to suit the requirements of the 
Railways before they can be confirmed or before their 
pay can be raised from Rs. 350 p.m. to Rs. 380 p.m. 
in the time scale during the period of probation. 
Officers who can sneak Hindi and read and write it 
may be exempted by the General Manager/Chief Ad- 
ministrative Officer from passing tlie language exami- 
nation. Failure to pass the examination within the 
probationary period Involves liability 1o removal from 
service. 

Note. — Some knowledge of Hindi prior to entry 
Into service would be of advantage in passing the 
departmental examination. 

3. Officers of the Mechanical Engineering and Trans- 
portation (Power) Department recruited under these 
regulations will not be entitled to pension on quitting 
the service, but will be eligible throughout their 
service fbr the benefits of the State Railway Pro- 
vident Fund, to which they will be required to sub- 
scribe and by the rules of which Fund they will be 
required to abide. 

4. Pay will commence from the date of joining ser- 
vice as a probationer. Service for increments will 
also count from the same date subject to paragraph 1 
above. Particulars as to pay contained in para- 
graph 8 of this Appendix 

5. Officers recruited under these regulations shall be 
eligible for leave in accordance with the rules for the 
time being in force applicable to officers of Indian 
Railways. 

6. Officers will ordinarily be employed throughout 
their service on the Railways to which they may be 
posted on first appointment and will have no claim, 
as a matter of right, to transfer to some other Rail- 
way but the Government of India reserve the right to 
transfer such officers, In the exigencies of service to 
any other Railway or project in or out of India. Offi- 
cers will be liable to serve in the Stores Department 
of Indian Railways if and when called upon to do so- 

7. The relative seniority of officers recruited under 
Rule 3 (a) will ordinarily be determined by the order 
of merit at the end of their first four years' training, 
while in the case of those recruited under Rule 3 (b) 
the relative seniority will ordinarily be determined by 
the order of merit in the competitive examination. 
As between officers recruited under Rule 3 (a) and 
those recruited under Rule 3 (b) who enter working 
posts in the same year the seniority will be Interpo- 
lated The Government of India, however, reserve 
the right of fixing seniority at their discretion in indi- 
vidual eases. They also reserve the right of assign- 
ing to officers appointed under regulation 3 (c) and 
3 (d) positions in the seniority list at their discretion. 

Note. — If the period of training and consequently 
the period of probation is extended in any particular 
case due to the training not having been completed 
satisfactorily, the officer concerned is liable to lose in 
seniority. 



Part I — Sec, 1] 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, FEBRUARY 10, 1607 


8. The following are the rates of pay admissible 
to officers appointed to Mechanical Engineering and 
Transportation (Power) Department. 

Junior Scale: Rs, 350 — 350 — 380 — 380 — 30 — 590 — EB — 
30 — 770 — 40 — 850. 

Senior Scale: Rs. 600 (1st to 6th year) — 40—1,000 — 
1,000—1,050—1,050—1.100—1,100—1150. 

Junior Administrative Grade: Rs. 1,300 — 00 — 1,600. 

Senior Administrative Grade: Rs 1,800 — 100—2,000 — 
125—2,250, 

Note. — Probationary officers will start on the mini- 
mum of the Junior Scale and will count their service 
for increments from the date of Joining. They will, 
however, be required to pass any departmental exa- 
mination or examinations that may be prescribed be- 
fore their pay can be raised from Rs. 350 p.m, to 
Rs. 380 p.m. in the time scale. 

9. The increments will be given for approved ser- 
vice only, and in accordance with the rules of the 
Department. 

10. Promotions to the Administrative grades are 
dependent on the occurrence of vacancies in the sanc- 
tioned establishment and are made wholly by selec- 
tion; mere seniority Is considered to confer no claim 
for promotion. 


APPENDIX II 

The subjects of the examination, the time allowed 
and the maximum marks allotted to each subject will 
be as follows: — 

Subjects Marks Duration 

General Knowledge and 

Current Affairs — ■ 

Paper I — 

Current Affairs and History 100 1J hours 

Paper II — 

Science and Geography 150 li hours 

Mathematics 300 3 hours 

2. Question papers will be of Intermediate standard. 

3. All papers must be answered in English. 

4. The use of scribe shall not be allowed. 

5. The syllabus for the examination will be as 
shown in the attached Schedule. 

0. The Commission have discretion to fix qualifying 
marks in any or all the subjects at the examination. 

7. From the marks assigned to each subject such 
deduction will be made as the Commission may 
consider necessary in order to secure that no credit 
is allowed for merely superficial knowledge. 

8. Deduction upto 0 per cent, of the maximum 
marks for the written subjects will be made for 
illegible handwriting. 

GENERAL, KNOWLEDGE AND CURRENT AFFAIRS 

There will be two papers: 

Paper I— Dealing mainly with Current Affairs and 
History. 

Paper II— Dealing with Science and Geography. 

The following syllabus is designed to indicate the 
scope of each subject included in these papers. The 
topics mentioned are not to be regarded as exhaustive 
and questions on topics of similar nature and not men- 
tioned in the syllabus may also be asked. Candidates' 
answers are expected to show their intelligent under- 
standing of the question and not knowledge of anv 
text books. 


PAPER I 

Current Events .— Knowledge of Important events 
that have happened in India during the past two 
years. India’s system of Government. Important 
measures of legislation whether undertaken by the 
Parliament or State Legislatures. Broad questions of 
India s policy relating to foreign affairs. Questions 
set will test the factual knowledge of candidates. 

World events of international Importance. Impor- 
tant personalities, both Indian and foreign. Sports 
and other cultural activities of outstanding importance. 

Indian History . — Broad outline knowledge of Indian 
History Konwledge of India’s ancient culture and 
civilization as disclosed by monuments ancient build- 
ings and masterpieces of literature. Growth of self- 
government. Main stages in the national movement 
leading to Independence. 


World History . — Elementary knowledge of major 
events in world history. Reforms or national move- 
ments such as represented by the French Revolution, 
Industrial Revolution in the U.K., the American War 
of Independence, the foundation of U.S.S.R., World 
Wars I and II, Modern freedom movements in Asia. 


PAPER II 

SCBNCB— 

Physics . — Physical properties and states of matter 
and simple measurements of mass, weight, density and 
specific gravity. 

Motion of object: Velocity, acceleration, force, 
gravity. 

Effects of heat, measurement of temperature, trans- 
ference of heat, change of state. 

Rectilinear propagation of light, phenomenon of re- 
flection and refraction. 

Natural and artificial magnet — properties of a mag- 
net. 

Electricity, static and current, conductors, and non- 
conductors, heating, lighting and magnetic effects of 
currents. 

Chemistry. — Physical and chemical changes, ele- 
ments, mixture and compounds, chemical properties 
of air, chemical composition of water. Preparation 
and properties of Oxygen, Hydrogen and Nitrogen, 
Acids, Bases and Salts, Carbon, Coal, Carbondioxide. 

Elementary knowledge of the human body and its 
important organs, 

Names and use of common animals, trees, plants, 
flowers, birds and minerals. 

Common epidemics, their causes, means of preven- 
tion and cure. 

Eminent Scientists and their achievements. 
Geography — 

The shape and movements of the earth. Time, 
Night and Day and the Seasons, Climate and wea- 
ther — the main climatic and vegetation region. The 
Earth's crust-orosion, transportation and deposition; 
earthquakes and volcanoes. Tides and Ocean currents, 
Maps. 

Human occupations and activities in relation to 
Geographical factors. 

The Geography of India with special reference to 
the above. 


SYLLABUS FOR MATHEMATICS 

Algebra — Formulae, their evaluation and transfor- 
mation. Notion of a function; rate of change. The 
gradient and area of a graph. Solutions of equa- 
tions, linear and quadratic, simple and simultaneous. 
Use of logarithms. Simple properties of positive 
negative and fractional indices. Arithmetical and 
finite geometrical sequences. 

Trigonometry. — Solution of plane triangles. Grapp 
of trigonometrical functions. Use of four figure 
tables. Additional theorems. 

Pure Geometry. — The substance of Euclid’s six 
books, Elementary Ideas In solid geometry treated 
informally; planes, rectangular blocks, wedges, pyra- 
mids. cylinders, cones and spheres. 

Analytical Geometry. — Simple properties of straight 
line circle, parabola, ellipse and hyperbola. 

APPENDIX III 
Fees 

Candidates seeking admission to the examination 
must pay the following fees: 

(at To the Commission: 

(i) Re, 1 when asking for application form and 
connected documents. 

This amount should be paid to the Commission 
by money order. Local candidates, however, 
may pay cash at the counter. The Commis- 
sion will not accept payment made otherwise. 

(il) Rs, 36/8/- (Rs. 8/6/- in the case of candi- 
dates belonging to Scheduled Castes and Sche- 
duled Tribes) with the completed application 
form. 

This amount should be paid by means 
of Treasury Receipt or CROSSED Indian pos- 
tal orders payable to Secretary, Union Public 
Service Commission. The Commission will not 
accept payment made otherwise, 



62 


THE GAZETTE Op INDIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1967 [Part I— Sec. 1 


(b) To the General Manager of the Railway who 
arranges tor the medical examination. 

Rs, 16 before examination by a Medical Board if 
selected for appointment. 

2. Once an application hag been considered by the 
Commission and the decision communicated to the can- 
didate, no claim from the candidate for a refund of the 
fee paid by him to the Commission will ordi»arily be 
entertained, nor can this fee be held In reserve for any 
other examination or selection. If however, a candi- 
date Is not admitted to the examination by the Com- 
mission, a refund of Rs. 30 (Ra. 7/8/- in the case of 
candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes) will be made to him. 

3. The Commission may at their discretion remit the 
presribed fee where they are satisfied that the applicant 
is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan or from 
the unllberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir and la 
not In a position to pay the prescribed fee. The fee of 
Re. 1 must however be paid even by a displaced person, 
when asking for forms though this amount will be 
refundable to him if on receipt of his application his 
claim to be a displaced person Is accepted by the 
Commission and his fee is remitted. 


APPENDIX IV 

A candidate shall be held to be a member of the 
Scheduled Castes. If he belongs to one of the castes 
specified in the list below under the State (or area) in 
which he and his family ordinarily reside. 

LIST OF SCHEDULED CASTES 

ANDHRA PRADESH 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Chalavadi. 

2. Chamar, Mochl or Muchi, 

3. Madiga. 

4. Mala. 

2. Throughout the State except Hyderabad, Mahbub- 
nagar, Adilabad, Nizamabad, Medak, Karlmnagar, 
Warangal, Khammam and Nalgonda districts: — 

1. Adi Andhra. 

2. Adi Dravlda. 

3 Arundhatlya. 

4. Bariki. 

5. Bavuri. 

6. Chachatl. 

7. Chandala. 

8. Dandasi . 

9. Dom, Dombra, Paidl or Pano. 

10. Ghasl, HaddI or Relli Chachandl. 

11. Godagall. 

12. Godari, 

13. Gosangi. 

14. Jaggall. 

16, Jambuvulu. 

16. Madasi Kuruva or Madarl Kuruva. 

17. Mala Dasu. 

18. Madiga DaFQ and MasBTeen. 

19. Matangl. 

20. Mundala. 

21. Paky or Moti. 

22. Pambada or Pambanda. 

23. Pamldl. 

24. Panchama or Pariah 

25. Relli. 

26. Samban. 

27. Sapru. 

28. Thoti. 

3. In the districts of Hyderabad , Mahbubnagar. 
Adilabad, Nizamabad, Medak, Karlmnagar, Warrangal, 
Khammam and Nalgonda: — 

1. Anamuk. 

2. Aray (Mala). 

3. Arwa Mala. 

4. Beda (Budga) Jangatn. 

5. Bindla. 

6. Byagara. 

7. Chambhar. 

8. Dakkal (Dokkalwar). 

9. Dhor. 

10. Eliamalwar (Yellammalawandlu) 

11. Holeya. 

12. Holeya Dasarl. 

13. Kolupulvandlu. 

14. Mahar. 

15. Mala Dasarl, 

16. Mala Hannar. 

17. Malajangam. 

18. Mala Masti, 

19. Mala Sale (Netkani). 

20. Mala Sanyasl. 


21. Mang, 

22. Mang Garodi. 

23. Manne. 

24. Mashtl. 

25. Mehtar. 

26. Mltha Ayyalvar. 

27. Samagara, 

28. Sindholu (Chindollu). 


ASSAM 

Throughout the State:— 

1. Bansphor. 

2. Bhuinmall or Mali. 

3. Brittial Bania or Bania. 

4. Dhupi or Dhobi. 

5. Dugla or Dholl. 

6. Hira. 

7. Jalkeot. 

8. Jhalo, Malo or Jhalo-Malo 

9. Kaibartta or Jaliya. 

10. Lalbegi. 

11. Mahara. 

12. Mehtar or Bhangi. 

13. Muchi or Rishl. 

14. Namasudra. 

16. Patnl. 

16, Sutradhar, 


BIHAR 

I. Throughout the State: — 

1. Bantar. 

2. Bauri. 

3. Bhogta. 

4. Chamar or Mochl. 

5. Chaupal. 

6. Dabgar. 

7. Dhobi. 

8. Dom or Dhangad. 

9. Dusadh, Including Dharl or Dharhi. 

10. Ghasl. 

II. Halalkhor. 

12. Hari, Mehtar or Bhangi. 

13. Kan jar. 

14. Kurarlar. 

15. Lalbegi. 

16. Musahar. 

17. Nat. 

18. Pan or Sawasi. 

19. Pasl. 

20. Rajwar. 

21. Turl. 

2. In Patna and Tlrhut divisions, and the districts 
of Monghyr, Bhagalpur, Palamau, Pumea and Bhumij — 

3. In Patna, Shahabad. Gaya and Palamau 
Districts: — 

Bhulya. 


BOMBAY 

1. Throughout the State except the districts of 
Bludana, Akola, Amravati, Yeotmal, Wardha, Nagpur, 
Bhandara, Chanda, Aurangabad, Parbhani, Nanded, 
Bhir, Osmanabad, Halar, Madhya Saurashtra, Zalawad, 
Gohilwad, Sorath and Kutch: — 

1. Ager. 

2. Bakad or Bant. 

3. Bhambi, Bhambhi, Asadaru, Asodi, Chamadia, 

Chamar, Chambhar, Chamgar, Haralaya, 
Harali, Khalpa, Machlgar, Mochigar, Madar, 
Madlg, Telegu Mochl, Kamati Mochl, Ranlgar, 
Rohldas, Rohlt or Samgar. 

4. Bhangi, Mehtar, Olgana, Rukhi, Malkana, 

Halalkhor, Lalbegi, Balmlkl, Korar or Zadmali. 

5. Chalvadi or Cbahtiayya. 

0. Chenna Dasar or Holaya Dasar. 

7. Dhor, Kakkayya or Kankayya. 

8. Garoda or Garo. 

9. Halleer 

10. Halsar, Haslar, Hulasvar or Halasvar. 

11. Holar or Valhar 

12. Holaya or Holer. 

13. Lingader. 

14. Mahar, Taral or Dhegu Megu. 

15. Mahyavanshl, Dhed, Vankar or Maru Vankar. 

16. Mang, Matang or Minimadig, 

17. Mang-Garudi. 

18. Meghval or Menghvar, 

19. Mukrl. 

20. Nadia or Hadi. 

21. Pasl. 

22. Shenva, Chenva, Sedma or lUvat. 

23. Tlrgar or Tirbanda. 

24. Turl. 



Part 1-Sec. l] THE GAzfitTE 6p INDIA, PEB&CARY ifl, 105? 



2. In the districts of Greater Bombay, West Khan- 
desh, East Khandesh, Dangs. Nasik, Ahmednagar, 
Poona, Satarn North. Satara South, Kolhapur, Shola- 
pur, Thana, IColaba Ratnagirl: — 

Mochi. 

3. In the districts of |Buldana, Akola, Amravatl, 
Yeotmal, Wardha, Nagpur, Bhandara and Chanda:— 

1. Bahna or Bahana. 

2. Balahi or Balai. 

3. Basor, Burud, Bansor or Bansodi. 

4. Chamar, Chamari, Mochi, Nona, Rohidas, Ram- 

narni, Satnami, Surjyabansi or Surjyaram- 
naml, 

5. Dom or Dumar. 

6. Dohor. 

7. Ganda or Gandi. 

8. Ghasi or Ghasla 

9. Kaikadi. 

10. Katia or Patharia. 

11. Khatik, Chikwa or Chikvi. 

12. Madgi. 

13. Mahar or Mehra. 

14. Mang, Dankhni-Mang, Mang Mahashi, Mang- 

Garudi, Madari, Garudi or Radhe-Mang. 

15. Mehtar or Bhangi. 

10. Sansi. 

4. In the districts of Akola, Amravatl and Buldana: — 
Bedar. 

5. In the district of Bhandara: — 

1. Chadar. 

2. Hollya. 

0. In the districts of Bhandara and Buldana: — 
Khangar, Kanera or Mlrdha. 

7. In the districts of Amravatl, Bhandara and 
Buldana: — 

Kori. 

8. In the districts of Aurangabad, Parbhani, Nanded, 
Bhir and Osmanabad:— -* 

1. Anamuk. 

2. Aray (Mala). 

8. Arwa Mala. 

4, Beda (Budgal Jangam. 

6. Bindla. 

0. Byagara. 

7. Chalvadl. | 

8. Chambhar. 

9. Dakkal (Dokkalwar), 

10. Dhor. 

11. Ellamalwar (Yellammalawadlu). 

12. Holeya. 

13. Holeya Dasari, 

14. Kolupulvandlu, 

15. Madlga. 

10. Mahar. 

17. Mala. 

18. Mala Dasari. 

19. Mala Hannal. 

20. Malajangam. 

21. Mala Mastl. 

22. Mala Sale (Netkanl). 

23. Mala Sanyasl. 

24. Mang. 

25. Mang Garodl. 

26. Manne. 

27. Mashtl. 

28. Mehtar. 

29. Mitha Ayyalvar. 

30. Mochi. 

31. Samagara. 

32. Sindhollu (Chindollu). 

9. In the districts of Halar, Madhya Saurashtra, 
Zalawad, Gohilwad and Sorath:— 

1. Bawa (Dhedh) or Dedh-Sadhu, 

2. Bhangi or Rukhi. 

3. Chamadla. 

4. Chamar, Nalla or Rohlt, 

5. Dangashla 

6. Garoda. f 

7. Garmatang. 

8. Hadi. 

9. Meghwal, 

10. Senva. 

11. Shemalla. 

12. Thorl. 

13. Turi. 

14. Turi-Barot or Dhedh-Barot. 

15. Vankar, Dhedh or Antyaj. 

10. In the district of Kutch: — 


KERALA 

1. Throughout the State: — 

1. Chakkiliyan. 

2. Kurvan, Sidhanar. 

3. Nayadi. 

4. Pallan. 

5. Paraiyan, parayan (Sambavar), 

6. Valluvan. 

2. Throughout the State except Kasaragod taluk 

of Malabar district: — 

1. Knnakkan or Padanna. 

2. Panan. 

3. Throughout the State except Malabar district 
(excluding Kasaragod taluk): — 

Paravan, 

4. Throughout the State except Malabar District: — 

1. Ayyanavar. 

2. Bharatar. 

3. Boy an. 

4. Domban. 

5. Kakkalan. 

6. Kavara. 

7. Kootan (Koodan). 

8. Mannan. 

9. Padannan. 

10. Palluvan. 

11. Pathiyan. 

12. Perumannan. 

13. Pulayan or Cheramar. 

14. Thandan. 

15. Ulladan. 

16. Uraly. 

17. Vallon. 

18. Vannan. 

19. Velan. 

20. Vetan. 

21. Bettuvan. 

5. In Malabar district: — 

1. Adi Andhra. 

2. Adi Dravida. 

3. Adi Karnataka. 

4. Ajila. 

5. Arunthathiyar. 

6. Baira. 

7. Bakuda. 

8. Band!. 

9. Bellara. 

10. Chamar or Muchi, 

11. Chandala. 

12. Cheruman. 

13. GodsgaU. 

14. Godda. 

15. Gosangi. 

10. Holeya. 

17. Kadaiyan. 

18. Kalladl. 

19. Karlmpalan. 

20. Koosa. 

21. Kudumban. 

22. Mail a. 

23. Mavllan. 

24. Moger. 

25. Mundala. 

26. Nalakeyava. 

27. Pambada. 

28. Panchama. 

29. Puthlrai Vannan. 

30. Raneyar. 

31. Samagara. 

32. Samban 

33. Semman. 

34. Thoti. 

6. In Malabar district (excluding Kasaragod taluk): — 

1. Gavara, 

2. Malayan. 

3. Pulaya Vettuvan. 

7. In Kasaragod taluk of Malabar district: — 

1. Bathada. 

2. Hasla, 

3. Nalkadaya. 

MADHYA PRADESH 

1, In the districts of Bhlnd, Gird, Morena, Shlvpurt, 
Gnona, Rajgarh, Shajapur, Ujjain, Ratlam, Mandsaur, 
Bhilsa, Indore, Dewas, Dhar, Jhabua and Nlmar 
(M.B.): — 


1. Bhangi. 

2. Chamar. 

3. Garoda, 

4. Meghwal. 

5 .Turl. 

fi. Turi-Barot. 


1. Bagri or Bagdl. 

2. Balai. 

3. Banchada. 

4. Barahar or Basod. 

5. Bargunda. 

0. Bedia, 



($4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1967 [Part I— Sec. 1 


7. Bhangi or Mehtar. 

8, Bhanumali. 

0. Chamar, Bairwa, Bhambi, Jatav, Mochi or 

Regar. 

10. Chidar. 

11. Dhanuk. 

12. Dhed. 

13. Dom, 

14. Kanjar. 

15. Khatlk. 

16. Koll or Kori. 

17. Kotwal, 

18. Mahar. 

19. Mang or Mang Garodi. 

20. Meghwal. 

21. Nat, Kalbelia or Sapera, 

22. Pardhl. 

23. Paal. 

24. Sansl. 

25. Zamral. 

2. In the districts of Chhindwara, Betul, Jabalpur, 
Sagar, Mandla, Hoshangabad, Nimur, Balaghat, Rai- 
pur, Bilaspur, Durg, Bastar, Surguja and Raigarh:— 

1. Bahna or Bahana. 

2. Balahl or Balai. 

3. Basor, Burud, Bansor or Bansodi. 

4. Chamar, Chamarl, Mochi, Nona, Rohidas, Ram- 

nami, Satnami, Surjyabanshi or Surjyaram- 
naml. 

5. Dom or Du mar. 

8. Ganda or Gandl 

7. Khatik, Chikwa or Chikvi. 

8. Mang, Dankhnl-Mang, Mang Mahashl, Mang- 

Garudl, Madari, Garudl or Radhe-Mang, 

9. Mehtar or Bhangi. 

10. Banal. 

3. In Bilaspur district: — 

Audliella. 

4. In Sagar district: — 

Chadar. 

B. In Damoh aub-division of Sagar district:— 

Dahait, Dahawat or Dahat. 

0. In the districts of Bilaspur, Durg, Raipur, Bastar, 
Surguja and Raigarh; — 

Dewar. 

7. In Sagar district except Damoh sub-division there- 
of:— 

Dhanuk. 

8. In Balaghat district: — 

1. Dohor. 

2. Holiya. 

8. Madgi. 

9. In the districts of Balaghat, Bilaspur, Durg, Rai- 
pur, Surguja, Bastar and Raigarh: — 

Ghasl or Ghasla. 

10. In Balaghat. Betul, Bilaspur, Durg, Nimar, Rai- 
pur, Bastar, Surguja and Raigarh districts; in Hoshan- 
gabad and Seonf-Malwa tehsils of Hoshangabad dist- 
rict, in Chhindwara district except in Seoni sub-divi- 
sion thereof; and in Sagar district except in Damoh 
sub-division thereof: — 

Katia or Patharia. 

11. In Sagar district; and in Hoshangabad and Seonl- 
Malwa tahsils of Hoshangabad district: — 

Khangar, Kanera or MIrdha. 

12. In Chhindwara, Betul, Jabalpur, Sagar, Mandla, 
Nimar, Balaghat, Raipur, Durg, Bastar, Surguja and 
Raigarh districts; and in Hoshangabad district except 
Harda and Sohagpur tahsils thereof;— 

Kori. 

13. In Chhindwara, Betul, Jabalpur, Sagar, Mandla, 
Nimar, Balaghat, Rajpur, Bilaspur, Durg, Bastar, Sur- 
guja and Raigarh districts; and in Hoshangabad dist- 
rict except Harda and Sohagpur tahsils thereof: — 

Mahar or Mehra. 

14 . In Sohagpur tahsil of Hoshangabad district:— 

Rujjhar. 


15. In the districts of Datia, Tibamgarh, Chhatarpur, 
Punna, Satna, RewB, Sidhi and Shahdol: — 

1. Basor or Bansphor. 

2. Beldav or Sunkar. 

3. Chamar, Ahlrwar, Chamar Mangan, Mochi or 

Raidas. 

4. Dharkar, Balmik or Lalbegi, 

5. Dher. 

6. Dom. 

7. Domar or Doris. 

8. Ghasia. 

9. Kuchbandhia. 

10. Kumhar. 

11. Mehtar, Bhangi or Dhanuk. 

12. Moghia. 

13. Muskhan. 

14. Pasi. 

15. Sansia or Bedia. 

18, In the districts of Raisen and Sehore: — 

1. Balahi, 

2. Bansphor or Bssot. 

3. Basar. 

4. Bedia. 

5. Beldar. 

6. Chamar, Jatav or Mochi. 

7. Chitar. 

8. Dhanuk. 

9. Dhobi. 

10. Dome. 

11. Kanjar. 

12. Khatlk. 

13. Koli or Katia. 

14. Mang. 

15 Mehar. 

16. Mehtar or Bhangi. 

17. Past. 

18. Sansia. 

19. Silawat. 


MADRAS 

1. Throughout the State: — 

1. Chakklliyan. 

2 Kuravan, Sidhanar. 

3. Nayadi. 

4. Pallan. 

6. Paraiyan, Parayan (Samba var). 

6. Valluvan. 

2, Throughout the State except Kanya Kumari 
district and Shencottah taluk of Tirunelveli district: — 

1. Adi Andhra. 

2. Adi Dravlda. 

3. Adi Karnataka. 

4. Ajila. 

0. Arunthathiyar. 

6. Bair a. 

7. Bakuda. 

8. BandJL 

9. Bellara. 

10. ChaiavadJ. 

11. Chamar or Muchl. 

12. Chandala. 

13. Cheruman. 

14. Devendrakulathan. 

15. Dom, Dombara, Paidi or Pano. 

18. Godagali. 

17. Godda. 

18. Gosangi. 

19. Holeya. 

20. Jaggall. 

21. Jambuvulu. 

22. Kadaiyan. 

23. Kalladl. 

24. Karimpalan. 

25. Koosa. 

26. Kudumban. 

27. Madari. 

28. Madiga. 

29. Maila. 

30. Mala. 

31. Mavilan. 

32. Moger. 

33. Mundala. 

34. Nalakeyava. 

35. Pagadai. 

36. Pambada. 

37. Panchama. 

38. Panniandi, 

39. Puthirai Vannan. 

40. Raneyar. 

41. Samagara, 

42. Samban, 

43. Sapari, 

44. Semman. 

45. Thoti. 

46. Tiruvalluvar. 



(part I— Sue 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1967 65 


3, In the Nilgirl district: — 

Kanakkan or Padanna, 

4. In Coimbatore and Salem districts: — 

1. Pannadl. 

2. Vathiriyan. 

5. In Kanya Kumarl district and Shencottah Taluk 
of Tirunclveli district : — 

1. Ayyanavar, 

2. Bharatar. 

3. Domban. 

4. Kakkalan. 

5. Kavara. 

0. Kootan (Koodan), 

7. Mannan. 

8 Padahnan, 

0. Palluvan. 

10. Panan. 

11. Paravan, 

12 . Pathiyan. 

13. Perumannan. 

14. Pulayan or Cheramar. 

16. Thandan. 

16. Ulladan 

17. Uraly. 

18. Vallon. 

19. Vann an. 

20. Velan. 

21. Vetan. 

22. Vettuvan, 

6. In Tanjore district: — 

1. Kollyan. 

2. Vettiyan. 

MYSORE 

1. Throughout the State except Coorg, Belgaum, 
Bijapur, Dharwar, Kanaxa, South Kanara, Gulbarga, 
Raichur and Bidar districts and Kollegal taluk of 
Mysore district: — 

1. Adi Andhra, 

2. Adidravida. 

3. Adikarnataka. 

4. Banjara or I.arnbani. 

6. Bhovl. 

6. Dakkaliga. 

7. Ganti Chores. 

8. Handi Jogis. 

9. Kemparls. 

10. Koracha. 

11. Korama. 

12. Machala. 

13. Mochi. 

14. Slllekyathas. 

15. Sudugadu Siddha, 

2. In the districts of Belgaum, Bijapur, Dharwar and 
Kanara: — 

1. Ager. 

2. Bakad or Bant. 

3. Bbambi, Bhambhi, Asadaru, Asodi, Chamadia, 

Chamar, Chambhar, Chamgar, Harnlayya, 
Harali, Khalpa, Machlgar, Mochigar, Madar, 
Madlg, Mochi Telegu Mochi. Kamati Mochi, 
Ranlgar, Rohidas, Rohit, or Samgar. 

4. Bhangi, Mehtar, Olgana, Rukhi, Malkana, 

HalaJkhor, Lalbegi, Balmikl, Korar or 
Zadmalli. 

5. Chalvadi or Channayya. 

6. Chenna Dasar or Holaya Dasar. 

7. Dhor, Kakkayya or Kankayya, 

8. Garoda or Garo. 

9. Halleer. 

10. Halsar, Haslar, Rulasvar or Halasvar. 

11. Holar or Valhar. 

12. Holaya or Holer, 

13. Lingader. 

14. Mahar, Taral, or Dhegu Megu. 

15. Mahyavanshi, Dbed, Vankar or Maru Vankar. 

16. Mang, Matang or Minimadig. 

17. Mang-Garudl, 

18. Meghval or Menghvar. 

19. MukrI, 

20. Nadia or Hadi. 

21. Pasi. 

22. Shenva, Chenva, Sedma, or Ravat. 

23. Tirgar or Tlrbanda, 

24. Turi. 

3. In Kanara district, — 

Kotegar or Metri. 

4 In the districts of Gulbarga, Bidar and Raichur: — 

1. Anamuk. 

2. Aray (Mala). 

3. Arwa Mala. 

4. Bede (Budga) Jangam, 


5. Bindla. 

6. Byagara. 

7. Chalvadi. 

8. Chambhar, 

9. Dakkal (Dokkalwar). 

10. Dhor, 

11. Ellamalwar (Yellammalawandlu' 

12. Holeya. 

13. Holeya Daaarl. 

14. KoluDuIvandlu. 

15. Madlga. 

16. Mahar. 

17. Mala. 

18. Mala Dasarl. 

19. Mala Hannal. 

20. Malajangam. 

21. Mala Masti. 

22. Mala Sale (Netkanl). 

23. Mala Sanyasi. 

24. Mang. 

25. Mang Garodi. 

26. Manne, 

27. Mashtl. 

28. Mehtar. 

29. Mitha Ayyalvar. 

30. Mochi. 

31. Samagara, 

32. Slndhollu (Chlndollu). 

5. In South Kanara district and Kollegal taluk of 

Mysore district: — 

1 . Adi Andhra, 

2. Adi Dravida. 

3. Adi Karnataka. 

4. Ajila. 

5. Arunthathiyar. 

6. Baira. 

7. Bakuda. 

8. Bandl. 

9. Bellara 

10. Chakkiliyan. 

11. Chalavadi. 

12. Chamar or Much!. 

13. Chandala. 

14. Cheruman, 

15. Devedrakulathan. 

16. Dom, Dombara, Paldl or Pant" 

17. Godagali. 

18. Godda 

19. Gosangi. 

20. Holeya 

21. Jaggall. 

22. Jambuvulu. 

23. Kadaiyan. 

24. Kalladi. 

25. Karimpalan. 

26. Koosa. 

27. Kudumban. 

28. Kuravan. 

29. Madarl. 

30. Madlga. 

31. Mails. 

32. Mala. 

33. Mavllan. 

34. Moger. 

35. Mundala. 

36. Nalakeyava. 

37. Nayadl. 

38. Pagadal. 

39. Pallan. 

40. Pambada. 

41. Panchama. 

42. Panniandi. 

43. Paraiyan. 

44. Puthlral Vannan. 

45. Raneyar. 

46. Samagara. 

47. Samban. 

48. Sapari. 

49. Semman. 

50. Thotl. 

51. Tiruvalluvar. 

52. Valluvan, 

6. In Kollegal Taluk of Mysore district: — 

1, Pannadl. 

2. Vathiriyan. 

7. In South Kanara district: — 

1. Bathada. 

2. Hasla. 

3. Nalkadaya. 

4. Paravan. 

8. In Coorg. district: — 

1. Adi Dravida. 

2. Adi Karnataka. 

3. Adiya. 

4. Balagai. 



66 


[Part I- Sec. 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 10, 1957 


5. Holeya, 

0, Madiga. 

7. Much!. 

8. Mundala. 

9. Pale. 

10. Panchama. 

11. Paraya. 

12. Samagara. 


90. Tiar or Tior. 

91. Turi. 

92. Ujia. 

93. Valamiki or Valmiki. 

2. In Sambalpur District;- 

Kuli. 


ORISSA 


PUNJAB 


1. Throughout the State: — 

1. Adi Andhra, 

2. Amant or Amat. 

3. Audhelia, 

4. Badaik. 

5. Baghetl or Baghuti. 

0. Bajlkar, 

7. Bari. 

8. Barikl. 

0. Baser or Burud. 

10. Bauri. 

11. Bauti, 

12. Bavurl. 

13. Bedia or Bejia. 

14. Beldar. 

15. Bhata. 

16. Bhoi. 

17. Chachati. 

18. Chakall. 

19. Chamar, Mochi, Muchi or Satnatni 

20. Chandala. 

21. Cherua or Chhelia. 

22. Chandhai Maru. 

23. Dandasi. 

24. Dewar. 

25. Dhanwar, 

26. Dhoba or Dhobi. 

27. Dom, Dombo or Duria Dom. 

28. Dosadha. 

29. Ganda. 

30. Ghantarghada or Ghantra. 

31. Ghasi or Ghasia. 

32. Ghogla. 

33. Ghusuria. 

34. Godagali. 

35. Godari. 

36. Godra. 

37. Gokha. 

38. Gorait or Korait. 

39. Haddi, Hadi or Han. 

40. Irika. 

41. Jaggali. 

42. Kandra or Kandara. 

43. Karua. 

44. Katia. 

45. Kela. 

40. Khadala. 

47. Kodalo or Khodalo. 

48. Kori. 

49. Kummari. 

50. Kurunga. 

51. Laban. 

52. Laheri. 

53. Madarl. 

54. Madiga. 

55. Mahuria. 

56. Mala, Jhala, Malo or Zala. 

57. Mang. 

58. Mangan. 

59. Mehra or Mahar. 

60. Mehtar or Bhangi. 

61. Mewar. 

62. Mundapotta. 

03. Musahar. 

64. Nagarchi. 

65. Namasudra. 

86. Paidi. 

67. Painda. 

68. Pamidi. 

69. Pan or Pano. 

70. Panchama, 

71. Panika, 

72. Panka. 

73. Pantanti. 

74. Pap. 

75. Pasi. 

70, Patial, Patikar, Patratanti or Pallia 

77. Raina. 

78. Relli. 

79. Sabakhia. 

80. Samasi. 

81. Sanei, 

82. Sapan. 

83. Sauntia (Santia), 

84. Sidhria. 

85. Sinduria. 

80. Siyal, 

87. Tamadia. 

88. Tamudia 

89. Tania. 


1. Throughout the State:— 

1. Ad Dharmi, 

2. Bengali. 

3. Barar, Burar or Berar, 

4. Batwal. 

5. Bauria or Bawaria. 

6. Bazlgar. 

7. Balmiki, Chura or Bhangi. 

8. Bhanjra. 

9. Chamar, Jatia Chamar, Rehgar, Raigar, Ramdasi 

or Ravidasi, 

10. Chanal. 

11. Dagi. 

12. Dhanak. 

13. Dumna, Mahasha or Doom. 

14. Gagra. 

15. Gandhila or Gandil Gondola. 

16. Kablrpanthi or Julaha. 

17. Khatik. 

18. Kori or Koli. 

19. Marija or Marecha. 

20. Mazhabi. 

21. Megh. 

22. Nat. 

23. Od. 

24. Pasi, 

25. Perna. 

20. Pherera. 

27. Sanhai. 

28. Sanhai. 

29. Sansi, Bhedkut or Manesh. 

30. Sapela. 

31. Sarera 

32. Sikligar. 

33. Sirkiband. 

2. Throughout the State except the districts ol 
Patiala, Bhatinda, Mohlndergarh, Kapurthala and 
Sangrur: — 1 II. 

1. Darain, 

2. Dhogri, Dhangrl or Siggi. 

3. Sansoi. 

3. In the district;-, ol Patiala, Bhatinda, Mohindergarh, 
Kapurlhala and Sangrur; — 

Deha, Dhaya or Dhea. 


RAJASTHAN 

I. Throughout the State except Ajmer district, Abu 
Road taluka of Sirohi district and Sunel Tappa ol 
Jhalawar district; — 

1. Adi Dharmi. 

2. Aheri. 

3. Badi. 

4. Bagri. 

5. Bairwa or Berwa. 

6. Bajgar. 

7. Balai. 

8. Bansphor. 

9. Bagri, Vagri or Birgi, 

10, Bawaria. 

II. Bedia or Beria. 

12. Bhand. 

13. Bhangi. 

14. Bidakia. 

15. Bola. 

16. Chamar, Bhambhi, Jatav, Jatia, Mochi, Raidasa, 

Raigar or Ramdasia, 

17. Chandal. 

18. Chura. 

19. Dabgar. 

20. Dhankia. 

21. Dheda. 

22. Dome. 

23. Gandia. 

24. Garancha Mehtar or Gancha 

25. Garo, Garura Or Gurda, 

26. Gavaria. 

27. Godbi. 

2H. Jingar. 

20. Kalbelia. 

30. Kamad or Kamadia. 

31. Kanjar, 

32. Kapadia Sansi, 

33 Khangar. 

34. Khatik, 



Part I — Sec. 1J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 10, 1057 


67 


35, Koli or Kori. 

30. Kooch Band. 

■ 37. Korla 

38. Kunjar. 

39. Madari or Bazigur. 

40. Majhabi. 

41 . Megh or Meglnval. 

42. Mehar. 

43. Mehtar. 

44. Nut. 

45. Past, 

40. Rawal. 

47. Salvi. 

48. Sansi. 

49. Santia. 

50. Sarbhangi. 

51. Sargara. 

52. Singiwala. 

53. Thori or Nayak. 

54. Tirgar, 

56. Valmiki. 

2. In Ajmer district: — 

1. Aheri. 

2. Bagri. 

3. Balai. 

4. Bambhi. 

5. Bansphod, 

6. Baori. 

7. Bargi- 

8. Bazigar. 

9. Bhangi. 

10. Bidakla. 

11. Chamar, Jatava, Jatia, Moo hi or Raigar. 

12. Dabgar. 

13. Dhanak. 

14. Dhed. 

15. Dhobi. 

10. Dholi. 

17. Dom. 

18. Garoda. 

19. Gancha. 

20. Kabirpanthi, 

21. Kalbelia. 

22. Khangar. 

23. Khatik. 

24. Koli. 

26. Koria. 

26. Kuchband. 

27. Mahar. 

28. Meghwal. 

29. Nat. 

30. Pasi. 

31. Rawal. 

32. Sarbhangi. 

33. Sargara. 

34. Satia. 

35. Thori. 

30. Tirgar 

37. Kanjar. 

38. Sansi. 

3. In Abu Road tuluka of Sirohi district:— 

1. Ager. 

2. Bakad or Bant, 

3. Bhambi, Bhambhi. Asadaru, Asodi, Chamadia, 

Chamar, Chambhar, Chamgar, Haralayya, 
Harali, Khalpa, Machigar, Mochigar, Madar, 
Madig, Telceu Mochi. Kamati Mochi, Ranigar, 
Rohidas, Rohit or Samgar. 

4. Bhangi, Mehtar, Olgana, Rukhi, Malkana, Halal- 

khor, Lalbegit Baimiki, Korar or Zadmalli. 

5. Chalvadi or Crrannayya. 

6. Chcnna Dasar or Holaya Dasar. 

7. Dhor, Kakkayya or Kankayya. 

8. Garoda or Garo. 

9. Halleer. 

10. ilalsar, Haslar, Hulasvar or Halasvar. 

11. Ilolar or Valhar. 

12. Holaya or Holer. 

13. Lingader. 

14. Mahar, Taral or Dhegu Megu. 

15. Mahyavanshi, Dhed, Vankar or Maru Vankar. 

16. Mang, Matang or Minimadig. 

17. Mang-Garudi, 

18. Meghval or Mcnghvar. 

19. Mukri. 

20. Nadia or Hadi. 

21. Pasi. 

22. Shenva, Chcnva, Scdma or Ravat. 

23. Tirgar or Tirbanda. 

24. Turi. 

4. In Suncl Tapna of Jhalawar district: — 

1. Bagri or Bagdi. 

2. Balai, 

3. Banchada. 

4. Barahar or Basod. 

5. Bargunda. 

6. Bedia, 

7. Bhangi or Mehtar. 


8. Bhanumati. 

9. Chamar, Bairwa, Bhambi, Jatav, Mochi or Regar. 

10. Chidar. 

11. Dhanuk. 

12. Dhed. 

13. Dom. 

14. Kanjar. 

15. Khatik. 

10. Koli or Kori. 

17. Kotwal. 

18. Mahar. 

19. Mang or Mang Garodi. 

20. Meghwal. 

21. Nat, Kalbelia or Sapera. 

22. Pardhi. 

23. Pasi. 

24. Sansi. 

25. Zamral, 

UTTAR PRADESH 

1. Throughout the State: — 

1. Agariya. 

2. Badi. 

3. Badhik. 

4. Baheliya. 

5. Baiga. 

6. Baiswar. 

7. Baianiya. 

8. Baigi. 

9. Balahar. 

10. Balai. 

11. Balmiki. 

12. Bangali. 

13. Banmanus. 

14. Bansphor, 

15. Barwar. 

16. Basor. 

17. Bawariya. 

18. Beldar, 

19. Beriya. 

20. Bhantu. 

21. Bhuiya. 

22. Bhuyiar. 

23. Boria. 

24. Chamar, Dhusia, Jhusia or Jatava 

25. Chero, 

26. Dabgar. 

27. Dhangar. 

28. Dhanuk. 

29. Dharkar. 

30. Dhobi. 

31. Dom. 

32. Domar. 

33. Dusadh. 

34. Gharami. 

35. Ghasiya. 

36. Gual. 

37. Habura. 

38. Hari. 

39. Hela, 

40. Kalabaz. 

41. Kanjar. 

42. Kapariya. 

43. Karwal. 

44. Khairaha. 

45. Khorot. 

46. Kharwar excluding Benbansi, 

47. Khatik. 

48. Kol, 

49. Korwa. 

50. Lalbegi. 

51. Majhwar. 

52. Mazhubi. 

53. Musahar. 

54. Nat, 

55. Pankha. 

56. Parahiya. 

57. Pasi or Tarmali. 

58. Patari. 

59. Rawut. 

60. Sahariya. 

01. Sanaurhiya. 

62. Sansiya. 

H3. Shilpkar. 

64. Turaiha. 

2. Throughout the State excluding Agra, Meerut and 
Rohilkhand divisions: — 

Kori. 

3. In Bundelkhand division and the portion of Mirza- 
pur district south of Kaimur Range: — 

Gond 


WEST BENGAL 

1. Throughout the States: — 

1. Baujd. 

2. Chamar. Charmakar, Mochi, Muchi, Rabidas 
Ruidas or Rishi. 





THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 10, 1957 


[Part I - Sec. 1 


£8 


3. Dhoba or Dhobi, 

4. Dom or Dhangad. 

5. Dosadh or Dusadh including Dharl or Dharhi 

6. Ghasl 

7. Lalbegl. 

8. Musahar, 

9. Pan or Sawasl. 

10, Pasi, 

1 1, Raj war. 

12, T\irl. 

2 Throughout the State except in the Ftirulla district 
and the territories transferred from the 'Purnea district 
of Bihar: — 

1. Bagdi or Du'ey. 

2. Bahella. 

3. Baiti. 

4 . Bediya, 

8, Beldar, 

<9, Bhuimali. 

7. Bhuiya. 

8. Bind. 

9. Damai (Nepali), 

10. Doai. 

11. Gonrhi. 

12. Hari, 

13. Jalta Kaibarttu. 

14. Jhalo Malo or Male 

15. Kadar, 

16. Kami (Nepali), 

17. Kandra. 

18. Kaora. 

19. Karenga or Koranga 

20. Kaur. 

21. Kent or Keyot. 

22. Khaira. 

23. Khatlk. 

24. Koch. 

25. Konai. 

26. Konwar. 

27. Kotal. 

28. Lohar. 

29. Mahar. 

30. Mai. 

31. Mallab. 

32. Mehtor. 

33. Namasudra. 

34. Nuniya. 

25. Paliya. 

38. Patni. 

37. Pod or Poundra. 

38. Rajbanshi. 

39. Sarki (Nepali). 

40. Sunri excluding Saha. 

41. Tiyar. 

3, In the Purulla district and the territories trans- 
ferred from the Purnea district oi Bihar:— 

1. Bantar. 

2. Bhogta- 

3. Chaupal. 

4. Dabgar. 

5. Halalkhor. 

6. Hari, Mehtar or Bhangi. 

7. Kanjar. 

8. Kurariar. 

9. Nat. 

4, In the territories transferred from the Purnea 
district of Bihar: — 

Bhumij. 

JAMMU AND KASHMIR 

1. Barwala 

2. Basith. 

3. Batwal. 

4. Chnmar or Ramdasla, 

5. Chura. 

6. Dhyar. 

7. Doom or Mahasha. 

8. Gardi. 

9. Jolaha. 

1 0. Megh or Kabirpanthl. 

11. Ratal 

12. Saryara. 

1.3. Watal. 

DELHI 

Throughout ihe Union Territory: 

1. Adi-Dliarml 

2. Agria. 

3. Aheria. 

4. Balal. 

5. Banjara. 

8, Bawaria. 

7. Bazigar, 

8. Bhangi. 

9. BhII. 


10. Chamar, Chanwar Chamar. Jatya or Jatav 

Chamar, Mochi, Ramdasla, Ravidase, Raidasi, 
Rehgarh or Raigar. 

11. Chohra (Sweeper). 

12. Chuhra (Balmiki) 

13. Dhanak or Dhanuk. 

14 Dhobi. 

15. Dom. 

16. Gharrami. 

17. Jullaha (Weaver). 

18. Kabirpanthi. 

19. Kachhandha. 

20. Kanjar or Giarah. 

21. Khatik. 

22. Koli. 

23. Lalbegi, 

24. Madnri. 

25. Mallah. 

20. Mazhabi, 

27. Megh-wal. 

28. Nai’ibut. 

29. Nat (Rana). 

30. Pasi. 

31. Perna. 

32. Sansi or Bhedkut. 

33. Sapera. 

34. Sikllgar. 

35. Singiwala or Kaibelia. 

30. Sirkiband. 


HIMACHAL PRADESH 

Throughout the Union Territory: — 

L Ad-dharmi. 

2. Badhi or Nagalu. 

3. Bandliela. 

4. Balmiki, Chura or Bhangi. 

5. Bangali. 

6. Banjara. 

7. Bansi. 

8. Barad. 

9. Barar. 

10. Batwal. 

11 Bawaria. 

12. Bazigar 

13. Bhanjra 

14. Chamar. Mochi. Ramdaai. Ravidasi or Ramdasia. 

15. Ghana] , 

16. Chhimbe tDhobi) 

17. Chuhre. 

18. Dagi 

19. Daole 

20 Darai or Daryai 

21 Daule. 

22. Dhaki or Toori. 

23. Dhaogri or Dhuai. 

24. Doom or Doomna. 

25 Dumnc (Bhanjre). 

28 Hall, 

27. Hesl. 

28. Jogi. 

29. .Tulahe. 

3<[. Kabirpanthl, Julaha or Keer. 

3 1 . Kamoh or DagoLl, 

32. Karoack. 

33. Khatlk, 

34 Koli 

35 Lohar 

36. Mazhabi. 

37. Megh. 

•38. Nat. 

39. Od 
10. Pasi, 

41. Phrera. 

42. Rehar. 

43. Rehara. 

44. Sansi 

45. Fapela, 

40. Sarde, Snrarc or Siryare. 

4/. Sarehde. 

48. Sikligar 

49. Sipt 

50. Sirkiband 

51. Teli 

52 Thnthiar or Thothcra. 


MANIPUR 

Throughout the Union Territory: — 

1. Dhupl or Dhobi 

2. Lois. 

3. Muchi or Ravidas. 

4. Namasudra. 

5. Patni, 

6 Sutradhar 

7 Ynlthihi. 



J^art I— Sec. 1] 


THE CtAzETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 10, 1957 


<59 


TRIPURA 

Throughout the Union Territory: — 

1. BagdI. 

2. Baiti. 

3. Bhuimali. 

4. Bhunar, 

5- Charoar or Mochi. 

6. DanjJasi 

7. Dhenuar 

8. Dhoba 

9. Duai 

10. Dum. 

11. Ghasi 

12. Gout 

13. Gunar 

14. Gur 

15. Gorang 

10. Jalia Kaibarla 

17. Kahar 

18. Kalindi 

19. Kan 

20. Kanda 

21. Kanugh 

22. Keot 

23. Khadit 

24. Kharia 

25. Khcmcha 

26. Koch 

27. Koir 

28. Kol 

29. Kora 

30. Kotal 

31. Mahisyadas ■ 

32. Mali 

33. Mehtor 

34. Musahar 

35. Namsudra 

36. Patni 

37. Sabar 

APPENDIX V 

A candidate shall be held to be a member of the 
Scheduled Tribes if he belongs to one of the Tribes 
specified In the list below under the State (area) in 
Which he and his family ordinarily reside. 

LIST OF SCHEDULED TRIBES 
ANDHRA PRADESH 

1. Throughout the State; — 

1. Chenchu or Chenchwar 

2. Koya or Goud with its sub-sects — Rajah or 

Rasha Koyas, Lingudliarl Koyas (ordinary), 
Kottu Koyas, Bhine Koya and Rajkoya. 

2. Throughout the State except Hyderabad, Mahbub- 
nagar, Adilabad, Nizamabad, Medak, Karimnagar, 
Warangal, Khammam and Nalgonda districts: — 

1. Bagata 

2. Gadabaa 

3. Jatapus 

4. Kammara 

5. Kattunayakan 

0. Konda Dhoraa 

7. Konda Kapus 

8. Kondareddis 

9. Kondhs (Kodi and Kodhu) , Desaya Kondhs, 

Dongria Kondhs, Kuttiya Kondhs, Tikiria 
Kondhs and Yenity Kondhs 

10. Kotia-Bentho Oriya, Bartika, Dhulia or Dulia, 

Holva, Palko, Putiya, Sanrona and Sidhopaiko 

11. Kulla 

12. Malls 

13. Manna Dhora 

14. Mukha Dhora or Nooka Dhora 

15. Porja (Farangiperja) 

10. Redd! Dhoras 

17. Rona, Rena 

18. Savaras-Kapu Savaras, Maliya Savaras or 

Khutto Savaras 

19. Sugalis (Lambadis) 

20. Yenadis 

21. Yerukulas 

3. In the districts of Hyderabad, Mahbubnagar, 
Adilabad, Nizamabad, Medak, Karimnagar, Warangal, 
Khammam and Nalgonda: — 

1. Andh 

2. Bhil 

3. Gond (including Naikpod and Rajgond) 

4. Hill Reddis 

5. Kolam (including Manncrvarlu) 

0. Pardhan 

7. Thoti 

4. In the Agency tracts: — 

1. Goudu (Goud) 

2. Nayaks 

3. Valmiki 


ASSAM 

1. In the Autonomous Districts: — 

1. Chakma 

2 Dimasa (Kachari) 

3. Garo 

4. Hajong 

5. Hmar 

0. Khasi and Jaintia (including Khasi, Synteng or 

Pnar, War, Bhoi or Lyngngam). 

7. Any Kuki Tribes, including: — 

(i) Biate or Biete 

(ii) Changsan 
(lii) Chongloi 

(iv) Doungel 

( v) Gamalhou 
Cvi) Gangte 
(vii) Guite 
(viii) Hanneng 

(ix) Haokip or Haupit 

(x) Haolaf 

(xi) Hengna 

(xii) Hongsungh 

(xiii) Hrangkhwal or Rangkhol 

(xiv) Jongbe 

(xv) Khawchung 

(xvi) Khawathlang or Khothalong 
(xvii) Khclma 

(xvlii) Kholhou 

(xix) Kipgen 

(xx) Kuki 

(xxi) Lengtbang 
(xxii) Lhangum 
(xxiii) Lhoujem 
(xxiv) Lhouvun 
(xxv) Lupheng 

(xxvi) Mangjel 
(xxvii) Misao 
(xxviii) Riang 
(xxix) Sairher 
(xxx) Selnam 
(xxxi) Singson 
(xxxii) Sitlhou 
txxxiii) Sukte 
(xxxlv) Thado 
(xxxv) Thangngeu 
(xxxvil Uibuh 
(xxxvii) Vaiphel 

8. Lakher 

9. Man (Tai-Spealung) 

10. Any Mizo (Lushal) Tribes 

11. Miklr 

12. Any Naga tribes 

13. Pawi 

14. Synteng 

2. In the Tribal Areas other than the Autonomou* 
Districts: — 

All Tribes of North-East Frontier Agency including — 

1. Abor 

2. Aka 

3. Apatani 

4. Dafla 

5. Galong 

6. Khampti 

7. Khowa 

8. Mishmi 

9. Momba 

10. Any Naga tribes 

11. Sherdukpen 

12. Singpho 

3. Tn ihe State of Assam excluding the Tribal 
Areas: — 

1. Barmans in Cachar 

2. Boro-Borokachari 

3. Doori. 

4. Hojai 

5. Kachari including Sonwal 

6. Lalung 

7. Mcch 

8. Miri 

9. Rabha 


BIHAR 

1. Throughout the State: — 

1. Asur 

2. Baiga 

3. Banjara 

4. Batbudi 

5. Bedia 

6. Binjhia 

7. Birhor 

8. Blrjla. 



LPart I— Sec. 1 


?6 


ME GAZETTE Oi’ INDIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1957 


9. Chero 

10. Chik Baralk 

11. Gond 

12. Gorait 

13. Ho 

14. Karmali 

15. Kharia 

16. Kharwar 

17. Khond 

18. Kisan 

19. Kora 

20. Korwa 

21. Lohara or Lohra 

22. Mahli 

23. Mai Paharia 

24. Munda 

25. Oraon 

26. Parhaiya 

27. Santal 

28. Sauria Paharia 

29. Savar 

2, In the districts of Ranchi, Singbhum, Hazaribagh, 
Santa] Parganas and Manbhum: — 

Bhumij 

BOMBAY 

1. Throughout the State except the districts of 
Buldana Akola, Amravati, Yeotmal, Wardha, Nagpur, 
Bhandara, Chanda, Aurangabad, Parbhani, Nanded, 
Bihr, Osmanabad, Halar, Madhya Saurashtra, 
Zalawad, Gohilwad, Sorath and Kutcn: — ■ 

1. Barda 

2. Bavacha or Bamcha 

3. Bhil, Including Bhil Garasia, Dholi Bhil Dungri 

Bhil, Dungri, Garasia, Mewasi Bhil, RawalBhil 
Tadvi Bhil, Bhagalia, Bhilala, Pawra, Vasava 
and Vasave 

4. Chodhara 

5. Dhanka, including Tadvi, Tetaria and Valvi 

0. Dhodia 

7. Dubla, including Talavia or Halpati 

8. Gamit or Gamta or Gavit, including Mavchi, 

Padvi, Vasava, Vasave and Valvi 

9. Gond or Raj gond 

10. Kathodi or Katkarl, including Dhor Kathodi or 

Dhor Katkari and Son Kathodi or Son Katkari 

11. Kokna, Kokni, Kukna 

12. Koli Dhor, Tokre Koli, Kolcha or Kolgha 

13. Naikda or Nayaka, including Cholivala Nayaka, 

Kapadia Nayaka, Mota Nayaka and Nana 
Nayaka 

14. Pardhi, including Advichincher and Phanse 

Pardhi 

15. Patelia 

16. Pomla 

17. Rathawa 

18. Varli 

19. Vltolia, Kotwalia or Barodia 

2. In Dangs District; — 

Kunbi 

3. In Surat District: — 

Chaudhri 


4, In Thana District: — 

Koli Malhar 

5. (a) In Ahmednagar District: — 
Akola, Rahuri and Sangamner 
talukas 

(b) In Kolaba District: — 

Karjat, Khalapur, Alibagh, 

Mahad and Sudhagad talukas 

(c) In Nasik District: — 

Nasik, Nlphad, Sinnar, Chandor, 

Baglan, Igatpuri, Dindori and 
Kalvan talukas and 

Surgana and Peint Mahals 
In Poona District: — 
mbegaon, Junnar, Khed, 
Mawal and Mulshi talukas 
and Velhe Mahal 
(e) In Thana District — 

Thana, Murbad, Bhivandl, 
Bassein, Wada, Shahapur, 
Dhanu Palghar, Umbergain, 
Jawhar and Mokhada talukas j 


C, (a) In Ahmednagar District: — 

Akola, Raghuri and Sangamner 
talukas 

(b) In Kolaba District: — 

Karjat, Khalapur, Pen, Pavil 

and Sudhagad talukas and 
Matheran 

(c) In Nasik District: — 

Igatpuri, Nasik and Sinner 

talukas 

(d) In Poona District: — 

Ambcgaon, Junnar, Khcd and 

Mawal talukas 
(el In Thana District:- — 

Thana, Kalyan, Murbad, 

Bhivandi, Bassem, Wada, 

Shahapur, Palghar, Jawhar 
and Mokhada talukas J 

7. In (1) Melgbat tahsil of the Amravati District, 

(2) Gadchiroli and Sironcha tahsils of the 
Chanda District, 

(3) Kelapur, Wani and Yeotmul tahsils of the 
Yeotmal District: — 

1. Andh 

2. Baiga 

3. Bhaina 

4. Bharia-Bhumia or Bhuinhar-Bhumia including 

Pando 

5. Bhattra 

6. Bhil 

7. Bhunjia 

8. Binjhwar 

9. Birhul or Blrhor 

10. Dhanwar 

11. Gadaba or Gadba 

12. Gond, including: — 

Arakh or Arrakh 

Agaria 

Asur 

Badi Maria or Bada Maria 

Bhatola 

Bhimma 

Bhuta, Koilabhuta or Koilabhuli 
Bhar 

Bisonhorn Maria 

Chota Maria 

Dandami Maria 

Dhuru or Dhurwa 

Dhoba 

Dhulia 

Dorla 

Gaiki 

Gatta or Gattl 
Gaita 

Gond Gowari 

Hill Maria 

Kandra 

Kalanga 

Khatola 

Koitar 

Koya 

Khirwar or Khirwara 
Kucha Maria 
Kuchakl Marla 
Madia (Maria) 

Mana 

Mannewer 

Moghya or Mogia or Monghya. 

Mudla (Muria) 

Nagarchi 

Nagwanshi 

Ojha. 

Raj. 

Sonjhari Jhareka 
Thatia or Thotya 
Wade Maria or Vade Maria 

13. Halba or Halbi. 

14. Kamar, 

15. Kawar, Kanwar, Kaur, Cherwa, Rathla Tanwar 

or Chattri. 

16. Khairwar 

17. Kharia 

18. Kondh or Khond or Kandh 

19. Kol 

20. Kol am 

21. Korku, including Bopchi, Mouasi, Nihal or 

Nahul and Bondhi or Bondeya 

22. Korwa, including Kodaku 

23. Majhwar 

24. Munda 

25. Nagesia or Nagasia 

26. Nihal 

27. Oraon, including Dhanka and Dhangad 

28. Pardhan, Pathari and Saroti 

29. Pardhi, including Bahelia or Bahellia Chita 

Pardhi, Langoli Pardhi, Phans Pardhi, Shikari, 
Takankar and Takia 


Koli Mahadev 
I or 

Dongar Koli 



Thakur or 
Thakar includ- 
ing Ka That 
Ka Thakar, 
f Ma Thakur 
and Ma 
Thakar 



Part I — Sec 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1957 71 


30. Parja. 

31. Saonta or Saunta. 

32. Sawar or Sawara. 

8. In the districts of Aurangabad, Parbhani, Nanded, 
Bhir and Osmanabad: — 

1. Andh, 

2. Bhil. 

3. Gond (including Nuikpod and Rajgond). 

4. Kolam (including Mannervarlu) . 

5. Koya (including Bhine Koya and Rajkoya). 

6. Pardhati. 

7. Thoti. 

9. In the Districts of Halar, Madhya Saurashtra, 
Zalawad, Gohilwad and Sorath: — 

Siddi. 

10. In Nesses area in the forest-; of Alech, Gir and 
Barada: — 

1. Bharwad. 

2. Charan. 

3. Rabari. 

11. In Zalawad District: — 

Padhar. 

12. In Kutch District: — 

1. Bhil. 

2. Dhodia, 

3. Koli. 

4. Paradhi, 

5. Vaghri. 


( KERALA 

1. Throughout the State: — 

1. Kadar. 

2. Irular or Irulan. 

3. Muthuvan, Mudugar or Muduvan. 

2 Throughout the State except Malabar district; — 

1. Eravallan. 

2. Hill Pulaya. 

3. Kanikaran or Kanikkar. 

4. Kochu Velan. 

6. Malakkuravan. 

6. Malai Arayan, 

7. Malai Pandaram. 

8. Malai Vedan. 

9. Malayan. 

10. Malayarayar. 

11. Mannan, 

12. Palleyan. 

13. Palliyar. 

14. Ulladan (Hill dwellers). 

15. Uraly. 

16. Vishavan. 

3. In Malabar district: — 

1. Adiyan. 

2. Ar.andan. 

3. Kammara. 

4. Kattunayakan. 

5. Konda Kupus. 

6. Kondareddis. 

7. Koraga. 

8. Kota. 

9. Ku^iya or Melakudi. 

10. Kurichchan. 

11. Kux-umans. 

12. Maha Malasar. 

13. Malasar. 

14. Malayekandi. 

15. Palliyan. 

16. Paniyan. 

17. Pulayan. 

4. In Malabar district (excluding Kasuragod taluk); — 

Kurumbas. 

5. In Kasaragod taluk of Malabar district:— 

Marati. 


MADHYA PRADESH 

1. In the districts of Bhind, Gird, Morena, Shivpuri, 
Goona, Rajgarh, Shajapur, Ujjain, Ratlam, Mandsaur, 
Bhilsa (excluding Sironj sub-division), Indore, 
Dewas, Dhar, Jhabua and Nimar (M.B.): — 

1. Gond. 

2. Korku 

3. Peharia. 


2. In the revenue districts of Dhar and Jhabua; in the 
tehslls of Sendhwa Barwani, Raipur, Kharagone, Bhi- 
kangaon and Maheshwar of the revenue district of 
Nimar; in the tahsil of Sailana of the revenue dis- 
trict of Ratlam: — 

Bhils and Bhilalas including Barela, Patelia and 
other sub-tribes. 

3. In (1) Bastar, Chhindwara, Mandla, Raigarh and 
Surguja districts, (2) Balhar tahsil of the Balagbat dis- 
trict, (3) Betul and Bbaimdehi tahsils of the Betul dis- 
trict, (4) BiJaspur and Katghora tahslis of the Bilaspur 
district, (5) Durg and Sanjari tahslis of the Durg dis- 
trict, (6) Murwara, Patan and Sihora tahsils of the 
Jabalpur district, (7) Hoshangabad, Narslnmbapur and 
Sohagpur tahsils of the Hoshangabad district, (8) Har- 
sud tahsil of the Nimar district, (9) Bindra-Nawagarh, 
Dhamtarl and Mahasamund tahsils of the Raipur 
district: — 

1. Andh. 

2. Balga. 

3- Bhaina. 

4. Bharia-Bhumia or Bhuinhar-Bhumiu including 

Pando 

5. Bhattra. 

6. BliiL 

7. Bhunjia. 

8. Binjhwar. 

9. Birhul or Birhor. 

10. Dhanwar. 

11. Gadaba- or Gadba. 

12. Gond, including— 

Arakh or Arrakh. 

Agaria. 

Asur. 

Badi Maria or Bada Maria. 

Bhatoia. 

Bhimma, 

Bhuta, Kollabhuta or Koilabhuti. 

Bhar 

Brosonhorn Maria. 

Chota Maria. 

Dandaml Maria. 

Dhuru or Dhurwa- 
Dhoba. 

Dhulia. 

Dorla. 

Gaikl. 

Gatta or Gattl. 

Gaita. 

Gond Gowari, 

Hill Maria. 

Kandra. 

Kalanga 

Khatola. 

Koltar. 

Koya- 

Khirwar or Kbirwara. 

Kucha Marla. 

Kuchaki Maria. 

Madia (Marla). 

Mana. 

Manewer, 

Moghya or Mogla or Monghya, 

Mudia (Murla), 

Nagarchi. 

Nagwanshl 

Ojha. 

Raj. 

Sonjharl Jhareka. 

Thatia or Thotya^ 

Wade Marla or Vade Maria. 

13. Halba or Halbi. 

14. Kamar. 

15. Kawar, Kanwar, Kaur, Cherwa, Rathia, Tan- 

war or Chattrl. 

16. Kliairwar. 

17 Kharia. 

18. Kondh or Khond or Kandh. 

19- Kol. 

20. Kolam, 

21. Korku, including Bopchi, Mouasi, Nihal or 

Nahul and Bondhi or Bondeya. 

22. Korwa, including Kodaku. 

23. Majhwar. 

24. Munda 

25. Nagesia or Nagasia. 

26. Nihal- 

27. Oraon, including Dhanka and Dhangud. 

28. Pardhan, Pathari and Saroti. 

29. Purdhl, Including Bahelia or Bahellia, Chita 

Pardhl, Langoll Pardhi. Phana Pardhl, Shi- 
kari, Takankar and Takia, 

30. Parja. 

31 Saonta or Saunta. 

32. Sawar or Sawara. 



72 


TUfi GAzBTTE OF INDIA, FEBflUAftY ie, 105) 


[Part I- -Sec. i 


4. In the districts of Datia, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, 
Panna, Satna, Rewa, Sidhi and Shahdol:— 

1. Agariya. 

2. Baiga. 

3. Bhil. 

4. Biar or Biyar. 

5. Bhumiya Including Bharia and Falihu. 

0 Gond, including Pathari. 

7. Khairwar including Kondar. 

8. Kol (Dahait) 

9. Majhi. 

10. Mawasi. 

11. Nat, Navdigar, Sapera and Kubutyr. 

12. Panlka. 

13. Pao 

14. Sahariya. 

15. Saur. 

16. Sonr. 


MYSORE 

1. Throughout the State except Coorg, Belgaum, 
Bijupur, Dharwar, Kanara, South Kanara. Gulbarga, 
Raichur and Bidar districts and Kollegal taluk of 
Mysore district: — - 


1. Gowdalu. 

2. Hakkipikki, 

3 Hasalaru. 

4. Iruliga, 

5. Jenu Kuruba 

6. Kadu-Kuruba. 

7. Malaikudi, 

8. Maleru. 

9. Sollgaru, 


2. In the districts of Belgaum, Bijapur, Dharwar 
and Kanara: — - 


5, In the districts of Raisen and Sehore: — 

1. Bhil. 

2. Bhilala. 

3. Gond or Daroi 

4. Karku. 

6. Keer. 

6. Kol. 

7. Mogia. 

8. Pardhi. 

9. Saharia, Sosia or Sor. 

6. In Sironj sub-division of Bhilsa district:— 

1. Bhil. 

2. Bhil Mina. 

3. Damor, Damaria. 

4. Garasia (excluding Rajput Garasia). 

6. Mina. 

6. Sehria. Sahariya. 


MADRAS 

1. Throughout the State; — 

1. Kadar. 

2. Irular. 

2. Throughout the State except Kanya Kumari dis- 
trict and Shencottah taluk of Tirunelveli district:— 

1. Adiyan. 

2. Aranadan 

3. Kammara. 

4. Kattunayakan. 

5. Konda Kapus. 

6. Kondareddls. 

7. Koraga. 

8. Kota. 

9 Kudiya or MeJakudi. 

10. Kurlchchan. 

11. Kurumans. 

12. Maha Malasar. 

13. Malasar. 

14. Malayekandi. 

15. Mudugar or Muduvan, 

16. Palllyan 

17. Paniyan. 

18. Pulayan. 

19. Sholaga. 

20. Toda. 

3. In North Arcot, Salem and Tiruchlrapalli dis- 
tricts: — 

Malayali, 

4. In Coimbatore district and Tirunelveli district 
except Shencottah taluk): — 

Kaniyan or Kanyan. 

5. In Nilgiris district:— 

Kurumbas. 

6. In Kanya Kumari district and Shencottah taluk 
of Tirunelveli district: — 

1. Eravallan. 

2. Hill Pulaya. 

3. Kanikaran or Kanikkar, 

4. Kochu Velan. 

5. Maiakkuravan. 

6. Malai Arayan 

7. Malai Pandaram. 

8- Malai Vedan 

9. Malayan. 

10. Malayarayar. 

11. Mannan. 

12. Muthuvan, 

13 Palleyan. 

14. Palllyar. 

15. Ulladan (Hill dwellers)', 

16. Uraly. 

17. Vlshavan, 


1, Barda. 

2 Bavaeha or Bamcb a. 

3. Bhil, including Bhil Garasia, Dholi Bhil, Dungri 

Bhil, Dungri Garasia, Mewasi Bhil, Rawai 
Bhil, Tadvi Bhil. Bhagalla, Bhilala, Pawra, 
Vasavu and Vasave. 

4. Chodhara. 

5. Dhanka including Tadvi, Tetaria and Valvl. 

6. Dhodla. 

7. Dubla, including Talavia or Halpati, 

8. Gamit or Gamta or Gavit including Mavchi, 

Padvl, Vasava, Vasave and Valvi. 

9. Gond or Rajgond 

10. Kathodi or Katkari Including Dhor Kathodi or 

Dhor Katkari and Son Kathodi or Son 
Katkari. 

11. Kokna, Kokni, Kukna, 

12. Koli Dhor, Tokre Koii, Kolcha or Kolgha. 

13. Naikda or Nayaka, including Chollvala Nayaka, 

Kapadia Nayaka, Mota Nayaka and Nana 
Nayaka. 

14. Pardhi, Including Advichlncher and Phanse 

Pardhi. 

15. Patelia. 

16 Pomla. 

17. Rathawa. 

18 Varli. 

19. Vitolla, Kotwalia or Barodla. 


3. In the districts of Gulbarga. Bidar and Raichur.- 


1. Bhil. 

2. Chenchu or Chenchwar. 

3. Gond (including Naikpod and Rajgond). 

4 Koya (including Bhlne Koya and Rajkoya). 

5 Thoti. 


4, In South Kanara district and Kollegal taluk of 
Mysore district: — 

1. Adiyan. 

2. Aranadan. 

3. Irular. 

4. Kadar. 

5. Kammara. 

6 Kattunayakan, 

7. Konda Kapus. 

8. Kundareddls. 

9. Koraga. 

10. Kota. 

11. Kudiya or Melakudl. 

12. Kurichehan 

13. Kurumans. 

14- Maha Malasar. 

15. Malasar. 

16. Malayekandi, 

17. Mudugar or Muduvan 
38 Palllyan. 

19. Paniyan. 

20. Pulayan. 

21. Sholaga. 

22. Toda. 


5. In Kollegal taluk of Mysore distrlc*:- 
Kaniyan or Kanyan. 


6 In South Kanara district — 
Marati 

7. In Coorg district:— 

1 Korama. 

2. Kudiya. 

3. Kuruba. 

4. Maratha. 

5. Meda, 

6. Yerava. 



Part I — Se~. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1957 


73 


ORISSA 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Bagata. 

2. Baiga. 

3. Banjara or Banjarl 

4. Bathudl. 

5. Bhottada or Dhotada 

6. Bhulya or Bhuyan- 

7. Bhumia. 

8. Bhumij. 

9. Bhunjia. 

10, Binjhal. 

11 Binjhia or Binjhoa. 

12- Birhor. 

13. Bondo Poraja, 

14. Chenchu. 

15. Dal. 

16. Desuu Bhumij, 

17. Dharua 

18. Didayi. 

19. Gadaba. 

20. Gandia. 

21. Ghara, 

22. Gond, Gondo. 

23 Ho. 

24. Holva. 

25. Jatapu. 

26. Juang. 

27. Kandha Gauda, 

28 Kawar. 

29. Kharla or Kharian. 

30. Kharwar. 

31. Khond, Kond, or Kandha. including Nanguii 

Kandha and Sitha Kandha, 

32. Kisan. 

33 Kol. 

34. Kolah-Kol-Loharas. 

35. Kolha. 

36. Koli, including Malhar. 

37. Kondadora. 

38 Kora. 

39. Korua. 

40. Kotia. 

41. Kova- 

42. Kulis. 

43 Lodha. 

44. Madia. 

45. Mahali- 

46. Mankidi. 

47. Mankirdia. 

48 Matya. 

49. Mirdhas. 

50. Munda, Munda-Lohara or Munda-Mahalis. 

51. Mundarl, 

52. Omanatya. 

53. Oraon 

54. Parenga 

55. Paroja 

56. Pentia 

57. Rajuar 

58. Santal 

59. Saora, Savar, Saura or Sahara 

60. Shabar or Lodha 

61. Sounti 

62. Tharua 


PUNJAB 

In Spili and Lahaul in Kangra district:— 

1. Gaddi 

2. Swangla 

3. Bhot or BodH 


RAJASTHAN 

1. Throughout the State except Ajmer district, Abu 
Road taluka of Sirohi district and Sunel Tappa of 
Jhalawar district: — - 

1, Bhil 

2, Bhil Mina 

3, Damor, Damaria 

4, Garasia (excluding Rajput Garasia) 

5, Mina 

6 Sehrfa, Sahariya 

2, In Ajmer district:— 

1. Bhil 

2. Bhil Mina 


4. Chodhara 

5. Dhanka, Including Tadvi, Tetaria and Valvi 

6. Dhodia 

7. Dubla, Including Talavia or Halpati 

8. Gamit or Gamt-a or Gavit, including Mavchl, 

Padvi, Vasava, Vasave and Valvi 

0. Gond or Raj gond 

10. Kathodi or Katkari, including Dhor Kathodi or 

Dhor Katkari and Son Kathodi or Son Kat- 
kari 

11. Kokna, Kokni, Kukna 

12. Koli Dhor, Tokre Koli, Kolcha or Kolgha 

13. Nnikda or Nayaka, including Cholivala Nayaka, 

Kapadia Nayaka, Mota Nayaka and Nana 
Nayaka 

14. Pardhi, including Advichincher and Phansc 

Pardhl 

15. Patella 
18. Pomla 

17. Ralhawa 

18. Varli 

19. Vitolia, Kotwalia or Barodia. 

4. In Sunel Tappa of Jhalawar district: — 

1. Gond 

2. Korku 

3. Seharia 


WEST BENGAL 

1. Throughout the State: — 
t. Ho 

2. Kora 

3. Lodha, Kheria or Kharia 

4. Mai Pahariya 

5. Munda 

6. Oraon 

7. Santal 

2. Throughout the State except the territories from 
the Purnea district of Bihar: — 

Bhumij 

3. Throughout the State except in the Purulia dis- 
trict and the territories transferred from the Purnea 
district of Bihar: — 

1. Bhutia including Shcrpa, Toto, Dukoa, Kagatay, 

Tibetan and Yolmo 

2. Chakma 

3. Garo 

4. Hejang 

5. Lepeha 

6. Magh 

7. Mahali 

8. Mech 

9. Mru 

10. Nagesia 

11. Rabha 

4. In the Purulia district and the • territories trans- 
ferred from the Purnea district of Bihar:— 

1. Asur 

2. Baiga 

3. Banjara 

4. Batbudi 

5. Bedia 

6. Binjhia 

7. Birhor 

8. Birjia 

9. Chero 

If), Chik Bernik 

1 1 . Gond 

12. Gorait 

13. Karmali 

14. Kharwar 

15. Khond 

16. Kisan 

17. Korwa 

18. Lohara or Lohra 

19. Mahli 

20. Parhaiya 

21. Sauria Paharia 

22. Savar" 


HIMACHAL PRADESH 
Throughout the Union Territory: — 

1. Gaddi 

2. Gujjar 

3. Jad, Lamba, Khampa and Bbot or Bodh 

4. Kanaura or Kinnara 

5. Lahauta 

6. Pangwala 


3. In Abu Road taluka of Sirohi district. — 

1 . Barda 

2. Bavacha or Bamcha 

3. Bhil, including Bhil Garasia, Dholi Bhil, Dungri 

Bhil, Dungri Garasia, Mewasi Bhil, Rewal 
Bhil, Tadvi Bhil, BhBgalia, Bhilala, Pawara, 
Vasava and Vasave. 



74 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1957 


LPart T — Sec. 1 


MANIPUR 

Throughout the Union Territory: — 

1 . Aimol 

2. Anal 

3. Angami 

4. Chiru 

5. Chothe 

6. Gangte 

7. Hmar 

8. Kabui 

9. Kacha Naga 

10. Koirao 

11. Koireng 

12. Korn 

13. Lamgang 

14. Any Mizo (Lushai) tribes 

15. Maram 

16. Maring 

17. Mao 

18. Monsang 

19. Moyon 

20. Paite 

21. Purum 

22. Ralte 

23. Sema. 

24. Simle 

25. Sahte 

26. Tangkhul 

27. Thadou 

28. Vaiphui 

29. Zou 

TRIPURA 

Throughout the Union Territory- — 

1. Lushai 

2. Mag 

3. Kuki, including the following sub-tribes: — 

(i) Balte 
(ii) Belalhut 
(iti) Chhalya 

(iv) Fun 

(v) Hajango 

(vi) Jangtei 

(vii) Khareng 
(viii) Khephong 

(lx) Kuntei 

(x) Laifang 

(xi) Lentei 
(xil) Mizel 
(xiii) Namte 

(xiv) Paitu, Paite 

(xv) Rangchan 

(xvi) Rangkhole 
(xvii) Thangluya 

4. Chakma 
3. Garoo 

6. Chaimal 

7. Halam 

8. Khaaia 

9. Bhutia 

10. Munda Including Kaur 

11. Orang 

12. Lepcha 

13. Santal 

14. Bhil 

15. Tripura or Tripuri, Tippera 

16. Jamatia 

17. Noatia 

18. Riang 

19. Uchai 

THE LACCADIVE, MINICOY AND AMINDIVI 
ISLANDS 

Troughout the Union Territory. — 

Inhabitants of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi 
Islands who, and both of whose parrenls, were born 
in those Islands". 

D. C. BAIJAL, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 
Railway Board 

New Delhi, the 8th February 1957 

No. 56/W/I60/12. — It is hereby notified for general 
information thut the Government Inspector of Rail- 
ways, Calcutta, having inspected the new Branch Line 
between Champa and Korba of the Bllaspur District 
oE the South Eastern Railway, a length of 23.61 miles 
on Broad Gauge, authorised its opening for the puhhe 
earriage of passengers with effect from 20th Decern ner, 
1956. 

The Railway Board after considering the Report of 
the Government Inspector of Railways, Calcutta, have 
confirmed his action. 

B. C. GANGULI, For Secy 


MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND 
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 

New Delhi, the 6th February 1957 

No. 6(24)/55. — MIV:— In this Ministry’s Notification 
No. 6(24)/55-MIV, duted the 28th December, 1956, 
published in part I section I of the Gazette of India, 
dated the 5th January, 1957, regarding reconstitution 
of the Mica Advisory Committee the following amend- 
ments shall be made, namely: — 

For ''Director of Mines and Geology, Government 
of Andhra” read “Director of Mines and 
Geology, Government of Andhra Pradesh”. 

G. C. JERATH, Under Secy. 


RESOLUTION 

New Delhi, the 1th February 1957 

No. 20(2) /5G-MIV. — The Government of India have 
decided, on the advice of the Mineral Advisory Board, 
to constitute a Committee to investigate the problems 
relating to the benefication of low grade ores, parti- 
cularly manganese ore in Rajasthan and Western India. 
The Committee will examine tho possibilities of estab- 
lishment oi Customs Mills or other co-operative ar- 
rangements for the purpose of benefleiatmg low grade 
ores. The composition of the Committee will be as 
follows: — 

Chairman 

Shri J. D. Kapadiu, I.C.S.. Secretary to the Govern 

ment of Bombay 

Members 

Representatives of the Central Government and. 

Kiiitways 

1. Director, Indian Bureau of Mines, New Delhi. 

2. The Chief Operating Superintendent, Western 

Railway. Bombay. 

2. The Chie£ Operating Superintendent, Southern 

Railway, Madras 

Representatives of the State Governments. 

1. Director of Industries, Bombay. 

2. Director of Mines, Rajasthan. 

Representatives of the Mineral Industry. 

1. Shri B. Pnttnaik (Mine Owner) M.L A., Tulsipur, 

Cuttack. 

2. Shri B. M. Gogte, C/o, The Bombay State Mine- 

owners' Association, Londa (Bombay), 

3. Shri Ilari Bhai J. Shah, C/o. Natwarlal Shynmnl 

Dnss Vora, Dahod, Rajasthan. 

4. A representative of the Mineral Industry in 
Madhya Pradesh. 

Note. --T he Committee may co-opt a ly ether person 
able to advise on any special aspect of the problem 
before them. 

2 The Committee will submit its report to the Gov- 
ernment of India within three months of the date of 
this Resolution 

Order 

Ordered that this Resolution be communicated to all 
State Governments, the several Ministries of the Gov- 
ernment of India, Prime Minister’s Secretariat. Cabinet 
Secretariat, Parliament Secretariat, the Private and 
Military Secretaries to the President, the Planning 
Commission, the Comptroller and Auditor-General of 
India, the Accountant General, Central Revenues, the 
Director Indian Bureau of Mines. Director, Geological 
Survey of India, Calcutta, Department of Atomic 
Energy, Bombay. Geological Adviser to the Govern- 
ment ol India, New Delhi 

Ordeieri also that this Resolution be published in 
the Gazette of India for general information 

R N VASUDEVA Dy, Secy. 



Part I— Sec, 11 THE GAZETTE OF INPIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1967 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 13 th February 1957 

No. 14/7/5G-FD. — In pursuance ol the Resolution ol' 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information 
and Broadcasting No. 1/51/54-F, dated the 2nd Feb- 
ruary, 1955, the Central Government hereby re- 
constitutes the Film Advisory Board, Bombay with 
effect from the 16th February, 1957 and appoints tha 
following as Its members with effect from the same 
date: — 

1. Chairman, Central Board of Film Censors— 
Ea-officlo Chairman. 


75 


2. Regional Officer. Central Board of Film Censors* 

Brmbay— Ex-officio member. 

3. Shri B. R. Dhurandhar. Member, Bombay Ad- 

visory Panel, Central Board of Film Censors* 

4. Dr. D. G, Vyas. 

5. Shri D. N. Marshall. 

6. Shri D. P. Wagle. 

7. Shrimali Kamla Bhoota. 

8. Shri Vijay Bhatt. 

9. Shri M. B, Billimoria. 

V. P. PANDIT. Under Secy* 




