REGISTERED No. D . 222 


The Eazette 14 


of India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 15 ] 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, APRIL 11, 1959 /CHAITRA 21 , 1881 


= : - - 


= 


= = - - 


= 


= 


= 


= 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 31st March , 
1959 : 


Issuc 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


. 


44 S . O . 692 , dated 27th March , Ministry of Labour Appointment of datc on which 
1959 . 

and Employment. certain chapters of Emplo 

yees State Insurance Act, 
1948 shall come into force 
in certain areas of the State 

of Rajasthan . 
45 S. O . 693, dated 28th March , Election Commission , Calling upon the Mahasu Cong 
1959 . 

India . 

tituency , Himachal Pradesh 
to elect a person to fill a 

vacancy , 
S . O . 694 , dated 28th March , Do. 

Appointment of dates for mak 
1959 . 

ing nominations, scrutiny 
of nominations , withdrawa 
of candidatuses , etc ., with 
respect to the by - election to 
be held in the Mahasu Par 
liamentary Constituency , 
Himachal Pradesh in pur 
suance to Notificat on No. 
S . O , 693 , dated 28th March , 

1959 . 
46 S . O . 695, dated 30th March, 

Do. 

Direction that the method of 
1959 

voting by marking the ballot 
paper shall be followed at 
all polling stations in the 
by - election to the House of 
the People from the Mahasu 
Constituency in pursuance 
to Notification No. S . O . 

693 , dated 28th March , 1959, 
47 S . Os. 696 and 697, dated 30th Ministry of Informa- Appro vol of films specified there 
March , 1959. . 

tion and Broad 
casting. 


in . 


849 


850 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21 , 1881 


PART II 


Issue 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. 


48 S. O .698 , dated 31st March , Ministry of Labour Refers the dispute betwçen the 
1959 . 

and Employment . cmployers in relation to 

Bhagaband Colliery and their 
workmen for adjudication to 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhan 
bad . 


Do, 


S . O . 699, dated 319t March , 

1959 . 


Prohibits the continuance of 

strike and / or lock out in 
existence in the Bhagaband 
Colliery . 


49 S , O . 700 , dated 31st March , Ministry of Com - Further amendment in Noti 
59 . 

merce and Industry . fication No. 3143 , dated sth 

October , 1997 , 


- - - - - -- 
Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 


PART JI — Section 3-- Sub -section ( ii ) 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administrations of Union Territories ). 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1959 
S .O . 740. - In pursuance of the provisions of clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 6 ) of 
section 116A of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, and in continuation 
of its notification No. 82 / 149 / 57 / 23, dated the 3rd November , 1958, published in 
the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 ( ii) , dated the 22nd November , 1958, the 
Election Commission hereby publishes the Order of the High Court of Judicature 
at Madras, passed on the 19th February, 1959, on the appeal against Order No 255 
of 1958, filed by Shri C . R . Narasimhan , against the Order , dated the 30th 
September , 1958, of the Election Tribunal, Madurai, in the Election Petition No. 149 
of 1957. 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS 
Thursday , the nineteenth day of February One thousand nine hundred unc fifty 

nine ( 30th Magha , 1880 — Saka ) 

PRESENT: 
The Honourable Mr. P . V . Rajamannar, Chief Justice , 

and 
The Honourable Mr. Justice Ganapatia Pillai. 

APPŁAL AGAINST ORDER No. 255 OF 1958 
C . R . Narasimhan - Appellant ( 1st Respondent ) . 

Versus 
M . G . Natesa Chettiar - Respondent ( Petitioner ). 
Appeal against the order of the Election Tribunal, Madurai II , dated the 30th 
September 1958 and made in Election Petition No . 149 of 1957. 


SIC. § (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959/CHAITRA 21, 1881 


851 


This appeal coming on for hearing on Monday, 19th January 1959, and having 
stood over for consideration till this day , the Court delivered the following :- - 

JUDGMENT 
The Honourable the Chief Justice : 

This is an appeal against the order of the Election Tribunal Madurai II setting 
aside the clection of the appcllant to the seat for the single member Parliamentary 
constituency of Krishnagiri on an clection petition filed by the Respondent ( E . P . 
149 of 1957) . For the said seat there were fye candidates out of whom one with 
drew . The appellant secured the largest number of votes and on 8th March 1957 
hę was declared as the returned candidate . The respondent, M . G . Natesan 
Chettiar an elector for the Krishnagiri Assembly constituency which is one of the 
constituencies comprised in the Krishnagiri Parliamentary constituency Aled an 
election petition out of which this appeal arises praying that the election of the 
appellant be declared void and one G . D . Naidu who had secured the largest 
number of votes after the appellant be declared duly elected. The election of 
thc appellant was sought to be set aside on several grounds which included charges 
of corrupt practices committed by the appcllant. For the disposal of this appeal 
it is not necessary to mention all of them because the Election Tribunal found 
that excepting the corrupt practice to which we shall refer presently the election 
petitioner had not proved the commission of any other corrupt practice set out in 
the election petition . The material allegations in the election petition relating 
to the corrupt practice of which the Election Tribunal found the appellant guilty 
are as follows: 
" The petitioner states that the first respondent has incurred and authorised 

the expenditure in contravention of section 77 of the Act and com 
mitted a corrupt practice under section 123 ( 6 ) of the Act. He has 
incurred an expenditure of over Rs. 25, 000. In his return of election 
expenses he has not taken into consideration the heavy expenditure 
incurred by the Congress Party in furtherance of his candidature . 
The Congress Party has incurred heavy expenditure of many 
thousands of rupees in furtherance of the prospects of the clection of 
the first respondent and other Congress candidates who stood for 
election to the Assembly in the Krishnagiri Parliamentary consti 
tuency . The expenditure has been incurred in various ways by the 
Congress Party by doing propaganda in support of the Congress 
Party candidates including meeting , processions, dancos, dramas, 
feeding and many other diverse ways. I state that Section 77 referred 
to in section 123 ( 6 ) of the Act provides that every candidate at an 
election shall either by himself or by his election agent keep a 
separate and correct account of all expenditure in connection with the 
election incurred or authorised by him or by his election agent 
between the date of publication of the notification calling the election 
and the date of declaration of the result thereof , both dates inclusive , 
that the account shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed 
and that the total of the said expenditure shall not exceed such 
amount as nay be prescribed . The particulars which the accounts 
shall contain is provided for in Rule 131 The Maximum amount of 
cxpenditure is provided for in Schedule Il. Section 78 of the Act 
provides that the Return of Election expenses shall be a true copy 
of the accounts kept by the candidate or by his election agent under 
Section 77 . The petitioner states that on an examination of the return 
of election expenses made by the first respondent it will be found 
that he has contravened the provisions of section 77 of the Act and 
therefore committed a corrupt practice under section 123 ( 7 ) of the 
Act . The first respondent has failed to conform to the provisions of 
section 77 and he has exceeded the maximum amount prescribed for 

expenditure for the election ." 
The appellant traversed these allegations in paragraph 23 of his counter statement 
which runs thus: 
" The statements in paragraph 31 that this respondent incurred of autho 

rised expenditure in excess of the prescribed maximum are false and 
are denied . This respondent kept separate accounts of all expenditure 
in connection with the election as required by the rules. This 
respondent states that he is not concerned with any expenditure 
incurred by the Congress Party in furtherance of its election campaign 
all over the State and country . This respondent is advised and states 
that he is not obliged to include in his account items of expenditure 


852 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : APRIL 11 , 1959 / CHAITRA 41, 1881 


[PARI II 


- 


- 


neither incurred nor authorised by him . The petitioner has failed to 
state what exactly are the items of expenditure which he incurred or 
authorised and which ought to have formed part of his return and the 
allegation therefore lacks particulars . This respondent has sub 
mitted a correct statements of accounts , without violating any rules." 


The appellant asked for particulars of the corrupt practice above mentioned , that 
is to say , the precise items of expenditure incurred or authorized by the appellant 
which according to the respondent ( election petitioner ) ought to have been included 
in the return of election expenses . The respondent furnished a list of such 
expenses. This list included seven items out of which it is sufficient to mention 
one because the Election Tribunal found that the Respondent had failed to prove 
the other items. That one item is item No . 7 . 


" Expenses incurred for advertisement for canvassing votes by paintings on 

walls in Dharmapuri, Pennagaram , Papparapatti, Pallakode, Krishna 
giri, Kaveripatnam and other places of major panchayat areas are 
not shown in the accounts ." 


Regarding this item the appellant in his counter affidavit stated as follows: 
" Such expenses as I incurred for the advertisement by painting on walls in 

the constituency have been disclosed in the return . I submit that in 
any event no corrupt practice under section 123 ( 6 ) has been com 
mitted by me and I have not incurred expenditure in excess of the 
prescribed maximum ." 


Issue 8 which was raised on these pleadings runs as follows: 
" Whether the first respondent spent in connection with his election , any 

amount in excess of Rs. 25 ,000 , whether the first respondent omitted 
to include in his account any item of expenditure actually incurred 
by him in connection with his election ; and whether he is guilty of 

a corrupt practice under section 123 ( 6 ) of the Act ? " 
The corrupt practice set out in section 123 ( 6 ) of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 is " The incurring or authorising of expenditure in contravention of 
Section 77." Section 77 is in the following terms: 
Account of election expenses and maximum thereof. - ( 1 ) Every candidate 

at an election shall, either by himself or by his election agent, keep 
a separate and correct account of all expenditure in connection with 
the election incurred or authorised by him or by his election agent 
between the date of publication of the notification calling the election 

and the date of declaration of the result thereof both dates inclusive; 
( 2 ) The accounts shall contain such particulars, as may be prescribed ; 
( 3 ) The total of the said expenditure shall not exceed such amount as may 

be prescribed . 
Evidence was adduced on the item of expenditure above mentioned . In the 
course of the evidence , however , there was another item which was revealed and 
it was admittedly not included as such in the account of the appellant s election 
expenses , namely the charge for a telegram despatched by the appellant to 
Madras on or about 28th February or first of March , The Election Tribunal found 
the appellant guilty of corrupt practice under section 123 ( 6 ) of the Act in that 
he admitted ( 1 ) to include in the account of his election expenses iwo items of 
expenditure incurred by him and ( 2 ) to mention particulars thereof and obtain 
vouchers therefor , and contravened the provisions of section 77 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of 
the Act . He also found that nd attempt was made to prove the charge that the 
appellant had incurred an expenditure in excess of the maximum allowed by the 
rules . In the result though the election of the appellant was found to be free 
from many corrupt practices attributed to him the Election Tribunal found that 
he was bound to perform his statutory duty and declared the election void on the 
ground that the appellant had committed an offence which fell under section 123 ( 6 ) 
of the Act. The Tribunal, however, refused to grant the second prayer of the 
respondent, namely , that G . D . Naidu should be declared duly elected . 

The learned Advocate General who appeared for the appellant challenged the 
correctness of the findings of the Election Tribunal both on facts and on law . 
We shall first take up the question of fact and then deal with the question of law . 

Item 7 of the list of items furnished by the respondent of the expenses alleged 


Szc. 3 (it)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 

853 
== = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = 

= = = = = = = = = = 
to have been incurred by the appellant and not included in the election expenses 
account relates to advertisement for canvassing votes by painting on walls in 
Dharmapuri, Pennagaram , Papparapatti, Pallakode, Krishnagiri and other places . 
The evidence regarding this item adduced by the respondent- election petitioner 
is as follows: The expenses incurred for wall painting in about 200 places 
ihroughout the constituency , each of which you have cost ahont Rs. 5 , The 
painting was " Vote for C . R . Narasimhan , Congress Candidate " . P . W . 5 Mohanram 
spoke to his having seen in the wall paintings with the Congress symbol asking 
to vote for the appellant and that he had scen one Chandrasekhara Asari making 
such paintings . This Asari was not examined . P .Ws. 6 , 8 , 9 and 10 also speak 
to their having seen the wall paintings as an item of election propaganda of the 
Appellant. The last witness gave the size of the painting as two feet by onc foot, 
The appellant himself was examined as R . W . 3 The material portion of his 
deposition is as follows: 


" I have included in my account of election expenses the amount spent by me 

for making wall painting of symbol , viz ., " Oxen " . On 18th February , 
1957 the amount incurred is debited . The amount is Rs. fifty and it 
was paid to Appadurai, Voucher No. 18 is the voucher taken from 
him . The painting is a simple affair and is what is called a tin 
stencil. The painting is made by two tin stencils one for the symbol 
of oxen of the file size namely 12 inches by 9 inches and the other a 
rectangular piece about 24 inches by four inches . The second 
rectangular piece contains my name. Rs. Afty is all the expenditure 
incurred by me in this matter and I have entered it in my account, 
No other expenditure was either incurred or authorised by me in 
this regard . . . , . I paid Rs. fifty in all to Appadurai for making tin 
stencil paintings . The amount includes both advance and final pay 
ment. I paid an advance and when the stencil was shown to me I 
paid the balance . It was a bargain for a lump sum and not so much 
à piece , Rs. Afty includes everything including preparation of the 
stencil. I did not ascertain in which of the towns and villages the 
prints were made. I saw the impression only in Krishnagiri. My 
request was to put such impression in all important towns in my 
constituency . He might have or might not have carried out my 
directions. I do not remember whether my second payment was after 
the work was finished or not. Voucher No . 16 and No. 16 shown. 


Q . I put it to you that these vouchers are for preparation of the tin stencil 

alone and do not include the paintings on the walls ? 
A . It is not so . The contract was for the execution of the entire work . 


Q . I put it to you that paintings were made on walls on your behalf in all 

important towns apart from the stencil impressions and that you 
have omitted from your account of election expenses the expenditure 
incurred in that behalf ? 


A . I have included in my accounts all the expenditure incurred by me and 

I have not incurred or authorised any other expenditure . No paintings 
on walls apart from stencil impressions were made by me or at my 
instance or on my behalf." 


Obviously if the sum of Rs 50 admittedly entered in the account represents the 
total expenditure for the wall paintings then there is no omission to enter this 
item of expenditure in the account. The voucher which was produced relating 
to payment of Rs. 50 contains the following recital: 
WTin stencils with pattern of symbol of oxen in connection with the general 

elections, inclusive of the charges for cutting 105 letters Bill Rs. 50 " . 
The Election Tribunal refused to accept the contention of the appellant that the 
voucher and the account included the cost of painting of the walls . He considered 
that a sum of Rs. 50 was too small to cover the cost of tin boards, wages for 
cutting symbols and 105 letters expenses for travelling to and in important towns 
in the whole constituency , price of paint and charges for painting . The inference 
was that the expenditure incurred by the appellant for painting on the walls 
had bech omitted to be included in the account kept by him and that, therefore , 
the appcllant had contravened the provisions of sub - section 1 and 2 of section 
77 of the Act . Having perulled the entire evidence bearing on the points we are 
unable to agree with the Election Tribunal, Though the title has been given 
an expenditure for the wall paintings it transpires that they were mere stencil 


854 - THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11 . 1959/ CHAII RA 21, 1881 [ PART II 
= = = = = = = = = = = = = = 

= = = = = = = = == 
impressions, which would not involve much time or labour or skill. We sce na 
reason to disbelieve the appellant when he says that a sum of Rs, 50 was all that 
he expended in connection with the paintings on the walls . There is no proof 
that more was incurred by the appellant for this purpose . The stencils them 
selves were only tin plates. We accept the appellant s statement and hold that 
the respondent has failed to prove the omission to include any expenditure incurred 
on the wall painting other that what was included in the expenses account. 


The next item of expenditure which the Election Tribunal held had been 
omitted to be included in the expenses account relates to a telegram sent by the 
Appellant to a friend of his at Madras to bring a car for the purpose of the election . 
This item is not to be found in the list furnished to the Tribunal by the respondent. 
The basis for this charge is an alleged admission by the appellant himself in the 
course of his deposition . It is true that the appellant admitted having sent a 
telegram and that he might have omitted to mention the telegram by oversight. 
The matter was further elucidated in his re -examination of the following way : 
" Q . Apart from inadvertence is there any other reason why the expenses 

for the telegram that you sent to your friend at Madras is not shown 
in the account of your election expenses ? 


A . There could be one or two possibilities. I might have used whatever 

stamps I had already in my possession or any reply telegraph from 
which I may have had or some one may have paid for it and may not 
have brought the bill to me and asked for the money . It might be 
that cash might not have at the moment passed from my pocket. At 
that moment I was working at a great strain ." 


A preliminary objection had been taken before the Tribunal that this item should 
not be considered at all as it was not averred in the petition or in the particulars 
but the objection was overruled as it was permissible to consider another instance 
or corrupt practice though it will not be permissible to consider a new head of 
corrupt practice . The Tribunal, further was of the view that when the fresh 
instance was based on the admission of the party himself there could be no objection 
on the ground of the want of pleading in that regard . Accepting the validity of 
this legal position , if a finding has to be arrived at on the admission of a party it is 
well established that the admission has to be taken as a whole . The Election 
Tribunal though aware of this rule nevertheless held that the whole of the 
appellant s admission is contained in the answers given by him in cross - examina 
tion and that what was said the next day in re - examination cannot be tacked on 
to the previous day s admission and even if it be tacked on it does not detract 
from the guilt of the first respondent (appellant) . In the first place we are unable 
to find any warrant for making an artificial division of a party s deposition 
according to the days on which the deposition was recorded . It is, of course, open 
to a court or a tribunal to refuse to accept any statement made by a witness in his 
chief examination , or cross - examination or re - examination , The Election Tribunal 
was wrong in saying that what was said the next day in re - examination could not 
be tacked on to the previous day s admission . In the second place we aro unable 
to agree with the Tribunal that even if it be tacked on it would not detract from 
the guilt of the appellant. If stamps which were used for the telegram were 
stamps which he had already purchased and the costs of those stamps had been 
included under the general heading of " postage " there would in cffect be no 
further expenditure to be included in the account of expenses. On the meaera 
evidence on the point we hold that it has not been established beyond all doubt 
that the expense incurred for sending the telegram in question was not included 
in the account. 


In this view it is not necessary to deal with the question of law , namely , 
whether a mere omission to enter an item of expenditure in the expenses account 
would amount to a corrupt practice mentioned in Section 123 ( 6 ) of the Act but 
as the matter was argued before us hy the learned Advocate -General and there is 
a possibility of an appeal to the highest court we shall deal with it. The corrunt 
practice in question is the incurring or authorising of expenditure in contravention 
of Section 77. The gravamen of the offence is therefore, the expenditure that is 
the act of spending in contravention of Section 77. Section 77 which we have 
extracted above consists of three suh - sertions. Sub - sections 1 and 2 relate to the 
keeping of an account of all expenditure in connection with the election , Sub 
section 1 enjoins on the candidate the duty of keeping a separate and correct 
account and sub - section 2 lays down that such account shall contain such parti 
culars as may be prescribed . Neither of these sub - sections relates to " expendi 
ture" , that is , spending money as such . An account obviously relates to a period 
after the incurring of the expenditure and it contains entries of expenditure 


Sec . 3 ( 11)] THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 CILALTR4 21 , 1881 855 
- - - 

= = = = - -- - = = = = = = = = = = = = 
already incurred or authorised to be incurred by the candidate . On the plain 
language of these two sub sections we find it impossible to hold that any failure 
on the part of a candidate to kecp a correct account or to enter the necessary 
particulars in the account would amount to incurring or authorising an expendi 
ture. Sub section 3 , however, clearly relates to expenditure as such because it 
says that the total of the expenditure shall not exceed the prescribed amount. 
If more than the prescribed amount is expended then such expenditure would be 
in contravention of that provision and therefore in contravention of section 77 . 
But any contravention of the provisions of sub -section 1 and subsection 2 of 
section 77 would not be a corrupt practice which would fall within section 123 ( 6 ) 
of the Representation of the People Act because such contravention would not 
involve any incurring or authorising of expenditure . 


We find that this view of ours has been taken by four other High Courts . 

In Shcopatsingh v . Narishchandia ( A . I. R . 1958, Rajasthan 324 ) a Division Bench 
( K . N . Wanchoo , C . J . und Jagat Narayan , J .) of the Rajasthan High Court held 
that the mere non muintenance of true accounts would not amount to a corrupt 
practice Under Section 123 ( 6 ) of the Act. The Tribunal had found in that case 
that the candidate had contravened sub section ( 1 ) of section 77 in as much as he 
did not maintain a separate and correct account of the expenditure incurred or 
authorised by him in connect.on with the clection between the date of publication 
of the notification calling the election and the date of declaration of the result 
thereof, and that such contravention would be a corrupt practice . The learned 
Judges refused to accept this construction of section 123 ( 6 ) and observed : 


“ Under Section 123 ( 6 ) it is only the incurring or authorising of expenditure 

in contravention of section 77 of the Act which amounts to a corrupt 
practice . The non -maintenance of true accounts has not been laid 
down as a corrupt practice . An entry is made in the account buok 
only after an expenditure is incurred or authorised . The corrupt 
practice consists of incurring or authorising of expenditure in contrá 

vention of section 77 . 
Only sub section ( 3 ) of section 77 deals with the incurring or authorising of 

expenditure , for it lays down that the total amount of the said 
expenditure shall not exceed such amount as may be prescribed . It 
is only when the total expenditure excceds this amount that it can 
be said that it has been lucurred or authorised in contravention of 

section 77. 
Section 124 ( 4 ) of the Act prior to its amendment by Act No. 27 of 1956 

provided that the making of any return which was falsc in any 
material particular would be a minor corrupt practice . That pro 

vision has since been deleted . 
We are accordingly of the opinion that a contravention of sub sections ( 1 ) 

and ( 2 ) of section 77 of the Act is no longer a corrupt practice Nor 
is the submission of a false return of expenses a corrupt practice any 
longer ," 


The Madhya Pradesh High Court in K . C . Sharma v . Election Tribunal ( A . I. R . 
1958 M . P . 236 ) explained the scope of section 123 ( 6 ) of the Act thus: 
" Where instances are cited to show that the prescribed maximum has been 

exceeded there may be a case under sub - section ( 3 ) of Section 77 of 
the Act but the words: " the incurring or authorising of expenditure " 
do not lead to the application of sub section ( 2 ) or sub section ( 1 ) 
of section 77 in the context of an election petition ." 


In Ram Abhilalch Tewari v . Election Tribunal ( A . I. R . 1958 All 663 ) the charge 
made against the successful candidate was that the return of the election expenses 
which he had filed did not show the correct account of the expenditure incurred 
and authorised by him as it contained fictitious and concocted entries . Dealing 
with the allegation of the learned Judges of the Allahabad IIigh Court said : -- 
" Such an allegation cannot be held to amount to a corrupt practice under 

section 123 ( 6 ) of the Representation of the People Act. Under that 
provision of law the corrupt practice consists in incurring or autho 
rising expenditure in contravention of section 77 which can only 
happen if a candidate incurs or authorises expenditure in excess of 
the maximum amount allowable under the rules framed under 
section 77 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act." 


856 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 /CHAITRA 21, 1881 [ PART II 

- - - - - 
In appeal No. 199 of 1958 ( published in the Bombay Gazette dated 18th September, 
1958 ) Desai and Miabhoy , J . J. repelled an argument that failure on the part of a 
candidate to maintain a separate account with all the particulars required by 
rule 131 of itself amounts to a corrupt practice within the abmit of section 123 ( 6 ) 
thus : 
" In vur judgment the contention is untenable . The language of clause ( vi) 

of section 123 is cxpress and explicit and that apart from the con 
sideration that any clause which lays down any corrupt practice must 
be strictly construed . The clause does not say that any thing which 
is in contravention of section 77 is a corrupt practice . But what it 
Says is that the incurring or authorising of expenditure in contra 
vention of that section is il corrupt practice. Incidentally we may 
observe that there is a provision in the Representation of People Act . 
1951 which deals with " disqualifications for Membership of Parliament 
or of a State Legislature " and clause ( c ) of that section relates to 
failure on the part of a person who has failed to lodge an account of 
his election expenses within the time and in the manner required 
under the Act. The carrying out of that requirements or failure to 
do so is a matter not for the Election Tribunal but for the Election 
Commission . It is that body which is concerned with this aspect of 
the matter . We do not deem it necessary in view of the plain and 
unambiguous language of clause ( vi) of section 123 to discuss the 
matter in any detail. The present contention of the appellant must 
be negatived ." 


Two decision of the Orissa High Court may now be briefly noticed though 
neither of them can be said to be a direct decision on the point. 
In Pyari Mohan v . Durga Sankar ( A . I. R . 1958 Orissa 125 ) it was inter alia alleged 
by the election petitioner that the election expenses account Aled by the returned 
candidate did not show the expenditure incurred day by day by some of his 
workers , Narasimham , C . J . dealing with this charge said :- - 


" Even if this argument is taken as correct I do not think a slight Irregularity 

in the maintenance of accounts as required by Rule 131 would be a 
corrupt practice for the purpose of sub - section ( 6 ) of Section 123 
of the Act. Doubtless , if any amount actually expended is not brought 
into the accounts it would clearly constitute corrupt practice in as 
murh as the total amount of expenditure prescribed may be exceeded 
and thereby sub - section ( 3 ) of section 77 contravened . But every 
petty irregularity in the manner of maintenance of accounts so long 
as the correctness of the entries is not in doubt, will not suffice to 

bring sub sertion ( 6 ) of section 123 of the Act into operation ." 
The above observations were clearly obiter dicta . There was no allegation in the 
case before the learned Chief Justice that any item of expenditure incurred by 
the candidate had not been incorporated into the account. Further it is not clear 
whether the omission to bring into the account a sum actually expended which 
even if added to the total expenditure would not result in the prescribed limit of 
nxpenditure being exceeded would in the opinion of the learned Chief Justice , 
constitute a corrupt practice . We are rather inclined to think that what the 
learned Chief Justice meant was that any omission or failure to include in the 
account a particular sum actually expended would amount to a corrupt practice 
only if the total amount of expenditure would be exceeded by the inclusion of 
that amount. Then the contravention would really be of sub section ( 3 ) of section 
77 of the Act . 


In Akshya Narayan v . Maheswar Bag ( A . I. R . 1958 Orissa 207 ) there was no 
evidence to show that any item of expenditure incurred by the candidate s workers 
was not eventually brought into the accounts but it was found that such expendi 
ture was not noted from day to day . On these facts , Narasimham C . J ., held that 
no corrupt practice had been committed , as a fact. Incidentally however, he 
stated : 
" Doubtless it any item of expenditure was omitted altogether in the 

accounts that would be serious matter and may amount to a corrupt 
practice in as much as there is a likelihood of the total expenditure 
for the election exceeding the amount prescribed . But so long as 
every item of expenditure is accounted for I do not think that the 
mere omission to mention the dates on which each itern of expendi 
turę was actually incurred on behalf of the candidate by his workers 
is such a serious irregularity as to amount to a corrupt practice." 


SEC. 3 (ii)] THE GAVET I E OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21 , 1881 857 
= - - = = 

= = - = 
Here again It is not clear that the lcarncd Chief Justice meant to lay down that 
it any item of expenditure is omitted such omission would itself amount to a 
corrupt practice . To give a concrete instance suppose the maximum amount pres 
cribed is Rs. 5 ,000 and the account submitted by the candidate shows an expendi 
ture of Rs. 4 , 000 odd and it is discovered during the hearing of the clection 
petition that a sum of Rs. 20 which had becn txpcnded by the ranilidate had not 
becn included . Obyiously the inclusion of this amount of Rs. 20 would not result 
in the exceeding of the prescribed limit. In such a case we are not certain that 
in the view of the learned Chief Justice even such an omission would amount to 
a corrupt practice even though there is no likelihood of the total expenditure 
exceeding the prescribed amount. In our opinion there is nothing in either of the 
judgments of the Orissa High Court which militates against the view we have 
taken and which has also been taken by the High Courts whose decisions we have 
referred to above . 

On this construction of section 123 ( 6 ) and Section 77 of the Act we hold that 
even assuming that the appellant had omitted to include the expenditure incurred 
by him for the wall paintings and for the telegram he would not be guilty of any 
corrupt practice under section 123 (6 ) . There can be no doubt whatever that the 
addition of the said items of expenditure would not result in the maximum liniit 
of expenditure being exceeded . As the election of the appellant has been set 
aside solely on the ground that he was guilty of a corrupt practice under scction 
123 ( 6 ) of the Act and as we have held that he was not so guilty this appeal is 
allowed and the order of the Election Tribunal setting aside the appellant s election 
is hereby set aside and the election petition filed by the respondent is dismissed 
with costs before the Election Tribunal . No order as to costs here. 

( Sd .) R . RAGHAVENDRA RAO , 
Assistant Registrar , A . S . 

[ No. 82/ 149 /57/5671.] 
New Delhi, the 3rd April 1959 
S .O . 741. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 86 
of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
publishes a copy of the Election Petition No. 5 of 1959, presented to the Com 
mission on the 19th March , 1959, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri 
Baburao Tatyaji Bhonsle , Journalist, resident of Badkas Chowk , Nagpur - 2 , 
calling in question the election to the House of the People from the Nagpur 
Constituency of that House , of Shri Madhav Shrihari Aney, Civil Lines , Nagpur. 
Presented to me by Shri V K , Pal who has been duly authorised by the 

petitioner to present this petition and whose signature has been obtained 
in the margin and attested as having been signed before me this the 

nineteenth of March one thousand nine hundred and Afty -nine, 
( Sd.) V . K . PAI, 

( Sd .) DIN DAYAL, 

19 -3 -59, 
Attested , 

Under Secretary , 
( Sd.) DIN DAYAL . 

Election Commission , India . 
Under Secretary , 
Election Commission , India . 
BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSION INDIA , NEW DELHI 

ELECTION PETITION NO. 5 OF 1959 
Baburao , son of Tatvaji Bhonsle , aged 55 years, Journalist, resident of Badkas 
Chowk, Nagpur - 2 - Petitioner , 

| Versus 
Madhav , son of Shrihari Aney , aged about 78 years, occupation nil , resident 

of Civil Lines, Nagpur --- Respondent. 
Election Petition under section 81 of the Representation of People Act, 1951 

The petitioner above named begs to state as follows: 

1. The petitioner is a voter cnrolled on the electoral Roll for the Nagpur 
Parliamentary constituency . His name appcars at Serial No. 3287 in the list for 
ward No. 18 , Nagpur City . 


858 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1939 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 [Part II 

= = = = = = = 
2 . The bye - election for the House of People (Lok Sabha ) was held at Nagpur 
on 31st January and 1st February 1959 for electing a candidate for the Lok Sabha 
from the Nagpur Constituency No. 138 , The constituency was called upon to 
elect a candidate by a notification published on or about the 10th December 
1958. The last date for submission of Nomination Papers was 20th December 
1958 . The scrutiny was held on 23rd December 1958 and 26th December 1958 
was the last date for withdrawal of nominations . 


3 . In this election the respondent stood as a candidate and contested the 
election . Shri Bhaurao Dewaji Khobaragade alias Rajabhau Khobaragade and 
Shri Haridas Damaji Awade were two other candidates contesting the election . 
The respondent stood as a candidate of the Congress Party and was supported 
by an organisation known as Vidarbha Andolan Samiti, Shri Rajabhau Khoba 
ragade was a candidate of the Samyukhta Maharashtra Samiti, while Shri Awado 
was an independent candidate . 


4. The respondent did not appoint any election agent. 


5 . The counting of votes polled at the election was started on 2nd February 
1959 and was completed on 3rd February 1959 , when the result of the election 
was declared. The respondent was declared to be the successful candidate . 


6 In the course of the propaganda carried on by the respondent for his elec 
tion , systematic appeals were made by the respondent and with the consent of 
the respondent by his agents and other persons who were canvassing votes for 
him . to vote for the respondent and to refrain from voting for Shri Rajabhau 
Khobaragade on grounds of caste , race, community and religion . The respon 
dent and with his consent his agents and other persons working for him used 
the clection symbol of thc respondent, viz ., two bullocks with yoke on and 
appealed to it as a symbol of Buddhist religion and the Hindu religious symbol 
oť vow was used and appeal made to it for the furtherance of the prospects of 
the respondent s election . These appeals, uses and appcals were made at various 
meetings held at Nagpur and other places , particulars of which are given in 
Schedule I , by articles and items published in the newspapers ( filed herewitli ) 
piz ., Dainik Vidarbha Andolan and Daily Maharashtra , published at Nagpur, 
particulars of which are given in Schedule II and by pamphlets and handbills 
published at Nagpur, the particulars of which are given in Schedule III. 


7 . In the same issues of the said daily “ The Dainik Vidarbha Andolan " 
detailed in Schedule IV . The Editor and publisher of the paper published with 
the consent of the respondent statements of fact which were false and which the 
respondent and the persons editing and publishing the newspaper believed to be 
false or did not belicve to be truc, in relation to the personal character and 
conduct of Shri Rajabhau Khobaragade and in relation to his candidaturc . The 
statements were reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of Shri Raja 
bhau Khobaragade s election , 


8 . The respondent, and with the consent of the respondent his agents and 
other persons hired or procured , on payment or otherwise vehicles for the 
conveyance of clectors other than the respondent himself, the members of his 
fanuly and his agents , to and from the polling stations and place fixed for the 
poll mentioned in Schedule V . 


9 . The respondent incurred and authorised expenditure in connection with 
the election in contravention of section 77 of the Act . The particulars as 10 
such contravention are given in Schedule VI. 


10 . On the dates on which the poll was taken the respondent, and with his 
consent his agents and other persons working for him exhibited on the Ballot 
Chits, issued by them to persons intending to vote at the election , the election 
symbol of the respondent, within the polling stations and in public and private 
placts within the distance of 100 yards from all the polling stations, in contra 
vention of section 130 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Act. Thereby the respondent and with his 
consent other persons working for him interfered or attempted to interfere 
with the tree exercise of the electoral right and committed the corrupt practice 
of undue influence , 


11. On account of the commission of the above corrupt practices the respon 
dent s election is liable to be declared void , 


Sec . 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 

8594 
- - - 
12 . The petitioner further submits that the electoral rolls prepared for the 
election were extremely defective in that, they excluded the names of thousands 
of persons who were eligible to yote at the election from different wards, exclud 
ed all the voters from several localities , and gave grossly inaccurate descriptions 
of persons whose names were included in the clectoral roll. Polling booths 
for a number of voters were kept so far away from their places of iesidence 
that a number of them were unable to vote at the election , 

13 . The Returning Officer for the Constituency did not provide a sufficient 
number of polling station in the constituency so as to enable all persons eligible 
to vote to exercise their right of vote . 

14. The Rules made under the Representation of the People Act, 1951 adding 
Rule 41 - A were not placed before both Houses of Parliament as required by 
section 169 ( 3 ) of the Act , 

15 . The Polling Officers and Presiding Officers at various polling stations did 
not overlook mere clerical or printing errors in the clectoral rolls in deciding 
the right of a number of persons to obtain a ballot paper, though they were 
satisfied that such persons were identical with the elector to whom such cntries 
related , 

16 . On account in the commission of the above corrupt practices and the 
instances of non - compliance with the provisions of the Constitution , the Act 
and the Rules and Orders made under the Act, the result of the election in so 
far as it concerned the respondent, has been materially affected . 

PRAYER 
It is , therefore, prayed that the election of the respondent be declared void 
and the costs of the petitioner be saddled on the respondent. 

NAGPUR ; 
The 18th March , 1959. 

(Sd.) B . T . BHONSLE , 

Petitioner 
Verification 


I, Baburao, son of Tatyaji Bhonsle , of Nagpur do hereby solemnly declare 
that the contents of the above paragraphs 1 , 2 , 3 and 5 are true to my personal 
knowledge, those of paragraphs 11, 14 and 15 are true to the information receiy 
ed by me and believed to be true, those of paragraphs 6 to 8 , 10 , 12 , 13 and 16 
are partly true to my personal knowledge and partly to the information received 
by me and believed to be true, and the contents of paragraphs 4 and 9 are true 
to the information obtained from the records with the Returning Officer , Nagpur. 
Verified and signed at Nagpur, this 18th day of March 1959 . 

(sd ) B . T . BHONSLE , 

Pctitioner . 
SCHEDULE I. (Para 6 of the petition ). 
Date 

Place of meeting 
19 - 1 - 1959 

AtUmrer. 
22 - 1 - 1959 

Town Hall, Nagpur. 
23 - 1 - 1959 

Colibar chow - Basta , Nagpur. 
24 - 1 - 1959 

Near Gandhi Bridge , Nagpur , 
26 - 1 - 1959 . 

Chitnavis Park , Nagpur. 
26 - I - 1959 

Shaheed Chowk , Nagpur. 
28 - 1 - 1959 

In Ganesh Mandir , Near Jamma Tank , Nagpur. 
28 - 1 - 1959 . 

At Pardi, Nagpur. 
29 - 1 - 1959 

· Juni Mangalwari, Nagpur. 
29 - 1 - 1959 . 

Village Gumgaon . 
31 - I - 1999 

. Chitnavis Park , Nagpur. 
Nagpur , 

(Sd, ) B . T . BIJONSLE . 
Dated 18 - 3 - 1959 . 

Petitioner 

Verificatwn 
1, Baburao Tatyaji Bhonsle do hereby solemnly declare that the contents of the above schedule 
are true to the information received by me and believed to be true. Verified and signed at 
Nagpur, this 18th day of March 1959. 

(Sd . ) B . T . BHONSLE, 

Pocitioner. 


[PART II 


860 
-- - - - 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21 , 1881 
- - - - - - - - - - - 

SCHEDULE II 


- - - - - 


Showing the articles or items in Dainik Vidurbhı Andolan ni Dainik Muharushtra mentioned 
param of the petition . 


Si. 


Date of 

ISSlle 


Page 


Volume & 
No. 


Caption of articles and items 


I, 19 - 1 - 1959 


Vol. I No . I 


. 


M 


7 . 21 - 1 - 1959 
3 . 22 - 1 - 1959 
4 . 23 - 1- 1959 
5 . 26 - 1 - 1959 


Vol. I No. 2 
Vol. I No . 3 
Vol. I No. 4 
Vol. I No, 


6 . 28 - 1 - 1959 
7 . 29 - 1- 1959 


Vol. I No. 8 
Vol. I No. 9 


. 
. 


-8. 30 -1- 1959 


Vol. I No . 10 


4 


(2) Samyukta Amar Shekh Muthhe kulagi 

Tura . 
(ii ) Kale Gorey . 
– Alryawar Balatkar . 
Allaho Akhar . 
Bai Me Nay- budha Honar . 
Khobaragade Na Mat Dewoon Paksha 

Droh Wa Dharma Droha Karoon Naka. 
Boudhhanno Khobaragadena Mate Dewo 

Naka. 
Ganarajyachya Divashi Sarvatra Vidarbha 

Rajyacha Jayaghosh , 
Nag Vidarbha Rajyacha Meure Kari, 
(1) Nagpur Rashtriya Mehtar Sabha Wa 

Vidarbha Safai Mazdoor Sangh 
( 11 ) Prantiya Kshatriya Pawar Samaj. 
( iii) Nabhik Samaj. 
(iv ) Nagpur Christian Samaj . 
(v ) Parsi Samajachi Jahir Nivedan , 
( vi) Teli Samajunnati Sabha, Nagpur. 
(1) Gai Ha Hindu Dharracha Mandbindu 

Ahe. 
(ii) Santryanchya Fodi. 
(1) Ga Ha Hindu Dharmacha Manbindu 

Ahe. 
(ii) Loknayak Ancy Hindu Dharmache 

Adarsha Prauk . 
(i) Khalapurushache Kharate Corpora 

Tonschya Kachara Petit . 
(12) Hindu Dharmatecl Don Bramharak 

shas . 
Muslim Samajache Netc Dr. Hasan Ynache 

Awalian . 
Loknayak Bapuje Anaylach vole Dewu. 
Gowadh Pratihandh Ha Hindu Dharmacha 

Manibindu Ahe . 
(i) Jatiyawadi Khobaragade la Kayamchi 

Apati Dya . 
( ii) Teli Samaja Cha Bupuji Ancy Yannach 

Pathimba. 
(iii ) Charmakar Bandhunna Vinanti , 
(1) Matang Samaja , Vinanti, 
( ii ) Niwadnuki Chya Gamati- Jamati. 
Nagpurchi Yeti Potniwadnook Wa Boudh 
hanche Kartawaya , 


9 . 31 - 1- 1959 


Vol. I No, it 


. 


IO . 


I - 2 - 1959 


Vol. I No , 12 


, 


1 -2 - 1959 


Vol. I No. 12 


. 


. . 


11 , Issue of Vol. 46 No. 26 

Daily Ma 
hanshtra 

- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


Nagpur : 
Dated 


( Sd .) B . T . BHONSLE , 

Petitioner . 


18 - 3 - 1959 . 


Verification 
1, Baburao Tatyaji Bhonsle do hereby solemnly declare that the contents of the above schedule 
are true to my personal knowledge . Verified and signed at Nagpur, this 18th day of March 1959 , 

( Sd .) B . T . BHONSLE , 

Petitioner . 


Src , S (ij) THE GAZETTF OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 CHAITRA 21, 1881 861 

= = - - 

SCHEDULE III 
Giving the details of thc pamphlets and handhills referred to in paragraph 6 of the peti tion . 

1. Nagpur chi Yeti Pot Niwadnook wa Boudhhanche Kartawya . 
2 . Kombad Bazar Bend Karnyat Congress Committee Cha Moolich Hat Nahi. 
3 . Vidarbha Ka Kayyam Musalmano Ke Hukuk Kc Jamunat Hai. (in Urdu ). 

Note - The three pamphlets referred to above are filed by the respondent along with his 
account of clection expenses . 
Nagpur 

(Sd .) B . T . BHCNSIA , 
Dated 18- 3 - 1959 . Verification 

Petitioner . 
1, Baburao Tatyaj Bhonsle , do hereby solemnly declare that the contents 
of the above Schedule are true to the information received from the records with the Returning , 
Officer , Nagpur . Verificd and signed at Nagpur , this 18th day of March 1959 . 

(Sd.) B . T . BHONŞLE , 

Petitioner. 


SCHEDULE IV ( Para 7 of the Petition ) 


Si. 
No, 


Datc 


Volumc and No. Page 


Caption of Articles & Items 


I 


19- 1 - 1959 


. Vol. I No. I 

» No. 2 


2 , 21- 1 - 1959 


3 


22 - 1- 1959 


, 


3. No. 3 


4 23 - 1 - 1959 


, 


„ 


No. 4 


5 
6 


25 - 1 - 1959 
26 - 1 - 1959 


No. 6 
No . 7 


Şamyukhta Amarshekh Mutthe Kalagi 

Tura . 
(1) Vidarbhachya AAd Yenarya Sam 

yukhta Maharastrawadyancha Dhuww 
Udawa , 
( 12 ) Atrywar Balatkar . 
i) Barrister Khobaragade chya Awa 

ghad Jagi Lattaprahar. 
(ii) Udyachya Ankat. 
i) Alla Ho Akbar . 
( it ) Vidarbhacha Khalanayak. 
( 112) Atryanna Amaravatit Kheta 
.. . rancha Mar, 
Vidarbha Andolan Karyalayat Barris 

ter Khobaragade. 

Bai Mee Nav Budha Honar . 
Fund Gund Ani Company 
Atrebaba Wa Chalis Samyukhta Maha 

rashtrwadi Yanchi Nagpurat Pratar 

feri. 
Khobaragadechya Papala Wacha Futali, 
Chatrapatinchya Payathyashi. 
He Paha Raja Khobaragadeche Maha 

pap . 
(1) Asha Dalalbajala Mat dewu Naka . 
(it) Şantryanchya Fodi. 
( ) Samyukhta Maharashtrachya 

Khabu Khobaragadecha . 

Parajaya Kara . 
(ii ) Hindu Dharmateel Don Brannha 

rakshas . 
(1) Jattayawadi Khobaragadela 

Kayamchi Apati Dya . 
( ii) Karalche Note Wa Nagpuri Vote . 


. 


7 29 -1 - 1959 
8 30 -1-1959 


, 
. » 


No. 9 
No. 


9 31-1-1959 


. 


No, II 


10 


1 - 2 - 1959 


. 


„ 


No. 12 


Nagpur, 

( Sd .) B . T . BHONSLE , 
Deted 18th March 1959. 

Petitioder . 
Verification 
I. Baburao Tatyaji Bhongle do hereby solcmnly declare that the contents of the above schedule 
are true to my personal knowledge. Verificd and signed at Nagpur this 18th day of March , 
1959 . 

(Sd.) B . T , BHONSLE, 

Petitioner. 


-862 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 [PART II 
= = = 

-- = = 
SCHEDULB V (Para 8 of the Petition ). . 
Vehicles were hired or procured for the transport of electors 10 and from the following places : 
I Tirom Khamda 

to the Polling Station , 

at Ramdaspeth and back . 
2 From Somalwada 

the Polling Station in Ramdaspeth and back . 
3 From Shankernagar 

Polling Station on Jail Road and back . 
4 From Jail Road 

Polling Station in Dharampeth and back , 
5 From Takli 

Somelwada and back 
6 From Garoba Maidan to the Polling Station at Tajbagh and back . 
Nagpur : 

( Sd .) B . T . BHONSLE , 
Deted 18 - 3 - 59. 

Petitioner. 
Verification , 
I , Baburao son of Tatyaji Bhonsle , do hereby solemnly declare that the contents of item 
No. I of the schedule are true to my own knowledge and those of other items are true to the in 
formation received by me and believed to be true, Verified and signed at Nagpur, this 18th 
day of 1959. 

( Sd ). B . T . BHONSLE, 

Petitioner , 


SCHEDULE VI 
giving particulars of the contravention of Section 77 of the Act ( Para . 9 ) . 

1. The respondent did not keep a separate and correct account of all expen 
diture in connection with the election incurred or authorised by him between 
the date of publication of the notification and the date of the declaration of 
the results i. e. between 10th December 1958 and 3rd February 1959. 

2. In any case the account was not kept from day to day. 
3. The account did not contain the address of the payee in each item , 

4 . The account did not contain the address of the persons to whom the 
amounts outstanding were payable in each case . 

5 . The total of the expenditurc incurred and authorized by the respondent 
exceeded the prescribed amount of Rs. 25 , 000 . 

6 . The respondent excluded from the accounts kept by him numerous items 
of expenditurc incurred and authorized by him in connection with the election 
and more particularly the following items of expenditure: - 
( a ) The exprnditure incurred on the construction of Bajaj Gate at the 

site of 64th Congress Session at Abhyankar Nagar, Nagpur. 
(b ) The expenditure incurred on the construction of a gate near the 

Nagpur Railway Station for the reception of the Congress Presi 

dent. 
( c ) The cost incurred for parading 64 pairs of bullocks with the proces 

sion of the Congress President on 5th January 1959. 
( d ) Expenditure incurred on the printing and publications of Dainik 

Vidarbha Andolan from 19th January to 3rd February 1959 . 
( e ) Expenses incurred by the Vidarbha Andolan Samiti on printing and 

publishing posters for propagating the respondent s candidature and 
other expenses incurred by the said Samiti on the respondent s 

election , 
( f ) Expenditurc incurred on printing the ballot chits distributed to the 

voters from the polling booths, bearing the respondent s election 

symbol and the title Akhil Bhartiya Congress Committee . 
( g ) The costs of paper and litho printing of the badges depicting the 

respondent s election symbol with the words " Congress Ko Vote 

Do" . 
( h ) The expenses of the procession of a pair of bullocks on the night of 

31st January , 1959 . 


863 


- 


- 


- 


- 


SEC. 3 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21 , 1881 

- -- - -- - = - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - -- - - 
(i) The expenses incurred on telegrams and trunk - calls by the respon 

dent. 
1 ( j) Expenses incurred for printing and publishing in Daily Maharashtra , 

dated 28th January 1959 of the article “ Yeti Nagpurchi Pot Niwad 

nook Ani Boudhhanche Kartawya " , 
7. The account lodged by the respondent with the Returning Officer is not , 
In any case , a true copy of the account kopt by the respondent of the expenses 
incurred or authorized by him for the election . 

NAGPUR ; 
The 18th March , 1959 . 

( Sd .) B . T. BHONSLE , 

Petitioner . 
Verification 
I, Baburao Tatyaji Bhonsle , do hereby verify that the contents of the above 
schedule are true to the information received by me from the account of the 
election expenses lodged by the respondent with the Returning Officer . Verified 
and signed at Nagpur, this 18th day of March , 1959 . 

(Sd.) B . T . BHONSLE , 

Petitioner . 


[ No. 82 /5 /59/ 5922.] 

By Order, 
DIN DAYAL , Under Secy . 


So Bey 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1959 
S . O . 742 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Registration 
of Foreigners Act , 1939 ( 16 of 1939 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that 
the following further amendments shall be made in the Registration of Foreigners 
Rules, 1939, the same having been previously published as required by the said 
Section , namely 

In the said rules -- 
In rule 6 , in sub - rule ( 1 ), 
( a ) in clause ( a ) . for the words " but less than ninety days" the words "but 

not more than ninety days" shall be substituted ; and 
( b ) in clause ( b ), for the words " for a period of ninety days or more" the 
words " for a period of more than ninety days" shall be substituted . 

[No. 6 /23 /59 - F .1.] 
FATEH SINGH , Jt. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-3 , the 13th March 1959 
S . O . 743. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following further amendments 
in the Indian Frontier Administrative Rules , 1956 , namely : 
Clause (vi) to Schedule III of the said Rules may be substituted by the following : 
" ( vi ) Officers drawn from the Defence Services shall be allowed to draw 

initial pay at a stage ( in grade II or Grade I, as the case may be ) to 
which they would have been entitled had they entered the Servire 
from the date they received their Commission in the Defence Services 
or the first January following the completion of 23 years of age , which 
ever is later. In case of Officers who had put in some non - commissioned 


864 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


THE GAZET LE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 {PARI II 
- - = = = 
service before they received their Commission in the Defence Services . 
half the period of such non - commissioned service rendered from the 
completion of 23 years of age, subject to a maximum of five years , 
will be treated as Commissioned Service . The difference between the 

nitial pay so fixed and the actual pay drawn in the Defence Services 
will be treated as persongl pay to be absorbed in future increases of 
pay other than special pay . Additional pay in the form of special 
pay or qualification pay will also be treated as personal pay to be 

absorbed in future increases in pay other than special pay . 
The pay of such officers who are initially appointed to Grade II shall , on 

their promotion to Grade I, be fixed at the stage in Grade I which 

corresponds to the pay drawn in Grade II : 
Provided that the pay so fixed shall not exceed the pay to which the Officer 

would have been entitled if he had been initially appointed to Grade I 
of the Service and his pay fixed under sub -paragraph ( 1 ) of this clause ." 

[ No . 131 -NEFA / 59 . ) 
S . H , JAGAD , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 30th March 1959 
S .O . 1744 . — In pursuance of Sub - Section ( 2 ) of Section 7 of the Port Haj 
Committees Act , 1932 (XX of 1932 ) the Central Government is pleased to nomi 
nate Shri M . M . Sethna, Deputy Docks Manager , Bombay Port Trust, Bombay, 
as a member of the Port Haj Committee , Bombay vice Shri A . M . Shaikh . 

[No, F . 18 ( 20 ) IAT /59. T 


8 . 0 . 745 . — In pursuance of Sub - Section ( 2 ) of Section 7 of the Port Haj 
Committees Act, 1932 (XX of 1932 ) , the Central Government is pleased to 
nominate Shri Laxman Iyer , Divisional Commercial Superintendent, Western 
Rallway , Bombay Central, Bombay as a member of the Port Haj Committee, 
Bombay vice Shri R . N . Chaudhury . 

[No. F .18 (20 ) - IAT / 591 
P . N . KAUL , Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
( Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1959 
S .O . 246 . - Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the 27th March 1959 . 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


Liabilities 


Rs. 


Assets 


Rs. 


5 ,00 ,00 ,000 
80,00 , 00 ,000 


15 ,59 :58. 000 

2,01,000 


. 


4 ,93 ,000 


25 ,00 ,00 ,000 
3, 00 ,00 , 000 


Capital paid up . . . . 
Reserve Fund . . . 
National Agricultural Credit ( Long -term Operations ) 

Fund 
NationalAgricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund . 
Deposits ; 

(a ) Government 

(1) Central Governmeat . . . . 

(2 ) Other Governments . . 
(5) Banks . . . . . . . 

(0) Others . . . . . . . 
Bills Payable . . . . . . . 
Other Liabilities 


Notes . . . 
Rupee Coin . . 
Subsidiary Coin . . . . 
Bills purchased and Dizzvinted . 

( a ) Internal . . 
(6) External . . . . 

(c ) Govertiment Treasury Bills 
Balances beld abroad * . . , 


SEC.$(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL11,1959/CHAITRA21,1881 


5 : 18, 22000 


53 , 82 ,87 ,000 


, 


, 


35,04 , 72 ,000 


26 ,72 , 23,000 


* * Loans and Advances to Governments 


24 ,77 .27, 000 


113 ,44 ,31,000 


67,56 ,88,000 
119, 06 ,91, 000 

36,61, 38 ,020 
41,05 ,63 ,000 


Other Loans and Advances 
Investments . . . 
Other Assets . . . 


251 ,69 ,62 ,000 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


12 ,0524, 000 


Rupees - 


- 


Rupees , 457,85 ,90 ,000 

457 , 85 , 90 ,000 
* Includes Cash & Short term Securities . 
* * Includes Temporary Overdrafts to State Governments . 
The item Other Loans and Advances includes Rs. 13 ,48414,000 advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills under Section 17 ( 

4C) of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act . 
Dated the ist day of April 1959 . 


865 


866 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934, for the week ended the 27th day of March 1959 . 

Issug DEPARTMENT 


Liabilities 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Assets 


Rs 


Rs. 


Notes held in the Bapking Depart - 

ment 


15,59 ,58 ,000 


A . Gold Coin and Bullion ; 


1701 ,52 , 60 ,000 


Notes in circulation . 
"Total Notes issued . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


1717 , 12 , 18 ,000 


(a ) Held in India . . . . 117,76 ,03,000 
(6 ) Held outside India . . 
Foreign Securities . . . 178 ,00, 89, 000 

TOTAL OF A . . 
B Rupee Coin . . . . . 

Government of India Rupee Securities , 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other 
wmmercial paper . . . 

TOTAL ASSETS , 


295, 76,92,000 
130 ,09 ,09 000 
1291,26 ,17.000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL11,1959/CHAITRA21,1881 


TOTAL LIABILITIES 


. 


1717, 12, 18,000 


1717, 12 ,13,000 


Dated the 1st day of April 1959. 


H . V . R . LENGAR , 

Governor . 


(No. F . 3 (2 )-BC / 59 . ) 
A . BAKSI, Jt. Secy. 


[PARTII 


SEC . 3 ( 11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL, 11, 1959/ CHAITRA 21 , 1881 


867 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

ESTATE DUTY 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1959 
$ . 0 , 747. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
85 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made to the 
Estate Duty Rules , 1953, S . R . O . 556 of 1954 as amended , S . R . O . 3578 of 1957, the 
same having been previously published as required by the said sub - section , 
namely : 

In the said Rules , 
1, for rules 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 , the following rules shall be substituted , namely : 
" 3. Where an Assistant Controller finds that the principal value of the 

cstate in any case pending before him excceds or is likely to excecd 
the pecuniary limits of his jurisdiction , he shall transfer the case to 

the Deputy Controller having jurisdiction over the estate . 
4 . ( a ) The Deputy Controller to whom the case of an estate has been 

transferred under rule 3 , may continue the proceeding so transferred 
from the stage at which it stood immediately before the transfer or 

recommence the proceeding : 
Provided that before recommencing any procceding, the accountable person 

shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard . 
( b ) The jurisdiction of the Deputy Controller to whom the case of an 

estate has been transferred under rule 3 shall not be called in 
question merely on the ground that the principal valuc of the estate 
as determined by the Deputy Controller is less than the value 

specified for the purpose of his jurisdiction . 
5 . Notwithstanding that an Assistant Controller or a Deputy Controller is 

not exerc .sing the functions of the Income- tax Officer or the Inspecting 
Assistant Commissioner , as the case may be , in respect of the assess 
ment under the Income- tax Act of a deceased person , he shall exer 
cise the functions of the Controller in respect of the estate of the 
deceased if the case relating to the estate is specifically assigned to 
him under the second proviso to sub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the 

Act . 
6 . ( 1 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 3 or in any other rule , 

the Board may at any stage of the proceeding relating to the case 
of any estate transfer it from one assessing authority to another and 

thereupon the provisions of rule 4 shall , so tar ag may be, apply . 
( 2 ) Whenever , a Deputy Controller or an Assistant Controller ceases to 

exercise jurisdiction in respect of any proceeding under the Act an 
is succeeded by another who has or exercises such jurisdiction , the 
Deputy Controller or Assistant Controller so succeeding may conti 
nue the proceeding from the stage at which it was left by his pre 
decessor : 


Provided that the accountable person may, when the succeeding Controller 

commences to exercise jurisdiction , demand that the previous pro 
ceeding or any part thereof taken before his predecessor be recom 
menced or that before any order imposing the duty is passed , he be 

re -heard ." 
2 . in rule 7 , clause ( d ) shall be omitted . 

3 . rule 31 shall be renumbered as sub -rule ( 1) thereof and after sub - rule ( 1 ) 
As so renumbered , the following sub - rule shall be inserted , namely : 
“ ( 2 ) The policy together with the above-mentioned assignment shall be 

forwarded to the Controller of Estate Duty for the purpose of 
acceptance on behalf of the President of India . The acceptance on 
behalf of the President by the Controller shall be recorded in the 

following form : 
* I, C . D . Controller of Estate Duty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . hereby accept the 

above -mentioned assignment on behalf of the President of India 
under clause ( f ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 33 of the Estate Duty 
Act , 1953. " 


- - - - - - 


868 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11 , 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 [PART II 
= - = - - = - - - 

4 . in rule 35 , for the words the Assistant Controller or Deputy Controller of 
Estate Duty for the time being exercising the functions of the Income- tax Officer 
in respect of the insurer and for the words the Assistant or Deputy Controller 
of Estate Duty for the time being exercising the functions of the Income- tax 
Officer in respect of the insurer the words the Deputy Controller of Estate Duty 
concerned shall be substituted . 

Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the Rules or amendments but is intended to indicate 
their general purport ) . 

Amendment No. 1, — At present an Assistant Controller who is in Class II 
service can deal with estates whose value does not exceed rupees flye lakhs and 
an Assistant Controller who is in Class I Service can deal with estates whose 
value does not exceed rupees ton lakhs. Estates of the value of over ten lakhs 
are dealt with by Deputy Controllers . With a view to avoid frequent transfers 
of cases from one officer to another, it has been decided to remove the distinction 
in the matter of jurisdiction between Assistant Controllers in Class II Service 
and Assistant Controllers in Class I Service and give all Assistant Controllers 
jurisdiction over estates whose value does not exceed rupees ten lakhs. 

Amendment No . 2 . — Rule 7 ( d ) , proposed to be deleted, provides that the 
interest of a member in the joint family property of a Hindu family governed by 
the Mitakshara , Marumakkattayam or Aliyasantana law , which ceases on his 
death is movable property notwithstanding that the family owns immovable 
property . As this sub - rule is in conflict with the provisions of section 21 of the 
Estate Duty Act, it has been decided to delete it. 

Amendment No. 3 . — This is a formal amendment designed to provide for the 
acceptance of the assignment on behalf of the President by the Controller of 
Estate Duty . 

Amendment No . 4 - Rule 35 prescribes the particulars to be furnished by 
insurers in respect of insurance policies taken out by the deceased . Under the 
rule as it stands (before amendment ), such particulars are to be furnished to 
the Assistant Controller or Deputy Controller of Estate Duty who is exercising 
the functions of the Income- tax Officer in respect of the insurer. The amend 
ment provides that the prescribed particulars should be furnished to the Deputy 
Controller of Estate Duty concerned . 

[ No, 7 / F . No. 12 / 1 /59 -ED . I 
S . O . 748 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 2 ) of section 
4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ), the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
makes the following amendment in its notification No. 11 - ED / 21 /52 / 57 - ED , dated 
the 5th September , 1957 , namely : 
In the said notification , for sub -paragraphs ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of paragraph ( 1 ) 

the following shall be substituted , namely :--- 
" ( 2 ) every Assistant Controller shall perform his functions in respect 

of the estate of a deceased person where the principal value of 
the estate does not exceed rupees ten lakhs, if in respect of the 
assessment under the Income- tax Act of the deceased immediately 
before his death , he was exercising or would have exercised , had 
the deceased derived any taxable income, the functions of the 
Income- tax Officer under the Income- tax Act , or if the case of the 
deceased , whether before or after his death , is transferred to him 
for the purposes of assessment under the Income- tax Act." 

Explanatory Note 
( This note is not a part of the amendment but is intended to explain the 
purpose thereof ) . 

At present an Assistant Controller who is in Class II Service can deal with 
estates whose value does not exceed rupees five lakhs and an Assistant Controller 
who is in Class I service can deal with estates whose value does not exceed 
rupees ten lakhs. Estates of the value of over ten lakhs are dcalt with by 
Deputy Controllers . With a view to avoid frequent transfers of cases from one 
officer to another , it has been decided to remove the distinction in the matter of 
jurisdiction between Assistant Controllers in Class II Service and Assistant Con 
trollers in Class I Service and give all Assistant Controllers jurisdiction over 
estates whose value does not exceed rupeen ten lakhs. 

[ No 8 / F . No. 12 / 1 /59 - ED . ) 
D . SUBRAMANIAN , Secy. 


- 


- - 


SEC. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 1), 1989, CHIAIPRA 21, 1981 869 

= = = = = 
COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE , CALCUTTA 

Calcutta , the 19th March , 1959 
$ . O . 749. — This Collectorate Notification No. 16 / 1958 dated the 17th Novem 
ber , 1958 is hereby rescinded . 

[No. 4 / 59 . ] 
N . MOOKHERJEE, 

For Collector . 
- - - 

- - - 

- - - - 


- 


- 


THE MADRAS CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE 

CENTRAL EXCISE 

Madras, the 28th March , 1959 
S . O . 750 . - In pursuance of Rule 5 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, I 
empower all Superintendents of Central Excise to exercise within their respective 
jurisdictions the powers of a " Collector " conferred by Rule 212 of the Central 
Excise Rules , 1944 in so far as they relate to the destruction of Confiscated tobacco , 
which , due to its deteriorated condition , fails to attract bidders to purchase it 
either on payment of duty or for rewarehousing it, subject to the condition that 
the weight of the tobacco to be destroyed does not exceed 25 standard maunds 
in each individual case , 

[No. C .IV / 16 / 207/ 58. C .E . (Pol) 1 . 

D . R . KOHLI, Collector . 


THE MYSORE CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE ; BANGALORE 

CLNTRAL EXCIS 


Bangalore , the 30th March , 1959 


S . O , 751 . -- In pursuance of Rule 5 of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , and in partial modifi 
cation of this office Notification No 4158 dated 3 - 4 - 1958 , I hereby empower the Central Excise 
Oficers of and above the rank specified in Column l of the table to exercise within their respective 
jurisdiction the powers of the Collector conferred by the provisions of the Rules enumerated in 
Co ). 2 of thc table subject to the limitations set out in Column 3 of the table . 


TAAL 


- - 


- 


- 


Rank of Officer 


Central Ex 
cisc Rules 


Limitutions. 


1. Asst. Collector of Centu.alLW 


, 


12 - 1 


Fur grant of rebate in respect of exports 

through pórls other than the major 
ports . 


II 


In cases where the weight of the tobacco 

to be destroyed excecds 25 standard 
maunds. 


3 . Superintendent of Central E \ cise , 


212 


- - - 


- - 


--- 


In cases where the weight of the tobacco 

io be destruyed does not exceed 25 

standard maunds . 
- - - 

[No. 2 /59. ] 
D . N , KOHLI, Collector . 


- - 


- 


- 


870 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11 , 1959 / CHAIZR1 21 , 1881 


[PART II 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , BOMBAY 

CENTRAL EXCISE 

Bombay , the 31st March , 1959 
S . O . 752 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 233 of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944 , read with Rule 96 ibid , as in force in India and as applicd to 
the State of Pondicherry , the undersigned hereby directs that manufacturer s of 
cotton fabrics on powerlooms paying duty at the compounded rates shall with 
effect from 1st April 1959 show in the R .G . 18 register, production , issue and 
balance of cotton fabrics separately for cach Tariff category and sub -category , 
that is to say , for Superfine, fine, Medium A , Medium B and Coarse by opening 
separate sections in the same Register or by maintain .ng separate RG . 18 
Registers and shall also submit the RT. 3 return showing separately the Ave 
tariſt categories and sub - categories as noted above. 

[ No. CER -233 / 1 -Powerlooms/59. ) 

T. C . SETII, Collector. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , DELHI 

ADDENDUM 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

Delhi, the 2nd April, 1999 
S . O . 753 . -- In the list of non - exçisable goods - intermediate and residual 
products of excisable commodities appended to the Delhi Collectorate Notifcation 
No . S . R . O . 1667 dated the 17th June, 1956 published on pages 1250 -51 in the 
Gazette of India , Part II Section 3, against Item Vegetable Non -Essential Oils . 
semi Crushed Oil seeds for preparing cattle feed , should be inserted , 

[ C , No. VI ( Y ) 21 / 3/ 59 / 15475 ) 
B . D . DESHMUKH , Collector . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1959 
S . O . 754.- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act 
1955, ( 10 of 1955 ), the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendments 
in the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Comnierce and Industry No 
S .R . O . 1150 dated the 30th May , 1955 , namely : 
I. In the said Notification - 
I. in form CST - C , in Part I, for item ( 5 ) , the following shall be substituted , namely :- - 
" (s) Closing stock of unsold yarn etc . on Mill s account (Single and Folded ) 

Loose ( lbs ). 

Packed for 


Export 


Civil 
congump 

tion 


Total 
(Packed ) 


Ibs, 


lbs. 


lbs. 


( 1) 


(1) Upto IOS 
( ii ) Over os to 20 
(ui) Over 20 to 308 
(iv ) Over 309 to 408 
(v ) Over 409 

TOTAL $(i) to (v) 


. 


. 


. 


Sec . 8 ( it )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1981 

871 
= = = = 

= 
NOTE : - - The total quantity shown in Column ( 3 ) shall be the total of yarn packed for 
“ civil consumption " and " Export" and not be the total of Loose and Packed yarn . 
II ." (1 ) in Form CST - D , in the Table appended to Part III , under the heading " Particu 

lars " , for item 4 the following shall be substituted , namely : 

“ 4 . Stocks of cloth in packed condition (Mills account only ). 
(a) Stocks for export 
(b ) Stocks for Civil Consumption . 

(c) Stocks for others (i.6. other than shown in a & b ) Total [(a) + (b ) + (c)”” 
(z ) the following Note shall be added below the Table , 

IMPORTANT, The above stocks should be on Mills account and in packed 
condition only and should not include any other stocks " . 

[No, 2 (12)- TEX (A ) 58 -2 ] 
V . V . NENE , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 6th April 1959 
$ . 0 , 755 . - The Central Government, having considered in consultation with 
the Forward Markets Commission , the application for renewal of recognition made 
under Section 5 of the Forward Contracts (Regulation ) Act, 1952 ( 74 of 1952 ) 
by The Spices and Oilseeds Exchange Limited , Sangli, and being satisfied that it 
would be in the interest of the trade and in the public interest so to do , hereby 
grants , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the said Act , recognition 
to the said Exchange for a further period of one ycar ending the 10th April, 1960 
in respect of forward contracts in turmeric . 

2 . The recognition hereby granted is subject to the condition that the said 
Exchange shall comply with such directions as may from time to time be given 
by the Forward Markets Commission , 

[No. 34 ( 4 ) - TMP / FMC / 59 .] 
T . Ş . KUNCHITHAPATHAM , Under Secy . 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1959 
S . O . 75 / IDRA / 6 / 11. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section of 
the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 ( 65 of 1951) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri N . Majumdar, Industrial Adviser ( Textiles 
Production ) , Bombay, as a member of the Development Council established by 
the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
No, S . R . O . 2820 , dated the 31st August 1957 for the scheduled industries engaged 
in the manufacture and production of textiles made of wool, including woollen 
yarn , hosiery, carpets and druggets and directs that the following amendment shall 
be made in the said Order, namely : - - 
In paragraph 1 of the said Order under the category of members " being 

persons who in the opinion of the Central Government have special 
knowledge of matters relating to the technical or other aspects ot 
the said scheduled industries " after entry No . 14E relating to Shri M .. 

Gopala Rao following entry shall be inserted, namely : 
" 14F . Shri N , Majumdar, Industrial Adviser ( Textile Production ) Office" 
of the Textile Commissioner, Witter Road , Ballard Estate , Bombay . 

[No. 4 ( 21JIA ( II ) (G ) /59. ) 


S . O . 757 / IDRA / 6 / 11. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by section of 
the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 ( 65 of 1951 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri N . Majumdar , Industrial Adviser ( Textiles 
Production ) , Bombay , as a member of the Development Council established by 
the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry 


872 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL II , 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 


[Part II 


No. Ş. R .O . 2821, dated the 31st August 1957 for the scheduled industry engaged 
in the manufacture and production of textiles made of artificial silk , including 
artificial silk yarn and directs that the following amendment shall be made in 
the said Order , namely : 


In paragraph 1 of the said Order under the category of members " being 

persons who in the opinion of the Central Government have special 
knowledge of matters relating to the technical or other aspects of 
the said scheduled industries after entry No. 11A relating to Dr. K . 
Venkataraman the following entry shall be inserted , namely : - - 


" 11B , Shri N . Majumdar , Industrial Adviser ( Textile Production ) Orice 
of the Textilc Commissioner , Wittet Road , Ballard Estate Bombay " . 

[No, 4 (21) IA (II) (G ) / 59 ] 


Nezy Delhi, the 4th April, 1959 


S . O . 758 / IDRA /6 16 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Industries 
(Development and Regulation ) Act, 1957 (65 of 1951), the Central Government hereby estab 
fishes for th : scheduled inustrica cngaged in the manufacture or production of Automobiles , 
Automobile Ancillary Industrics and Transport Vehicle Industries, a Development Council 
which shall consist of the following members, namely : 


1. Shri S . Anantaramakrishnan , M /S . Simpson & Co. 1 

Ltd ., 202 / 203, Mount Road , Madras . 
2 . Mr. E . Lang, M /S . Motor Industries Co . Ltd ., P .TB . No. 

93 , Banqulore . 
3 , Shri Pranlal Patel, M / S Ancillary Industrics Associa 

tion , Mattendas Mills Compound , Tulsipipe Lanc, Lower 
Parel, Bombay - 13 . 
Shri W . N . Talwar, M / S Payen Talbros Ltd ., 71 /3 , Najaf- í being persons who , in 
garh Industrial Arca , Neu Delhi- 15. 

the opinion of the 
Shri M . S . Shastri, M /S . Automobile Products of India Central Government 
Ltd ., Bhandup , Bombay . 

are capable of represen 
Shri N . K . Firodia , M / S . Bachraj Trading Corporation , ting the interests 
139 , Dr. Annie Besant Road , Worli , Aombay- 18 . 

of owners of Industrial 
7 . Shri J. B . Motivala , M / S . Mahindra - Owen , Gateway undertakings in the said 
Building, Apollo Bunder , Bombay . 

scheduled industries . 
8 . Shri L . L . Narayan , M / S . Engine Valves Ltd ., S, Pattalos 

Road , Madras - 2 , 
Shri Krishna Narain , The U . P . Motor Company, 4 , 
Shah Najaf Road , Lucknow . 


10 . Dr, B . D . Kaleikar, Senior Industrial Adviser (Engg .) 

Development Wing, Ministry of Commerce & Industry , 
New Delhi, 
Dr, Lal C . Verman , Indian Standards Institution , 
Manek Bhavan , Mathura Road , Delhi. 

Shri S . K , De, M / S . Howrah Motors Ltd ., P -6 , Mission 
Row Extension P . B . 2263 , Calcutta . 

Shri T . S . Santhanam Director, M /S . T . V . Sundaram 
Iengar & Sons, West Veli Street, Madurai. 
Col. V . P . S . Menon , Industrial Adviser ( Engg .) Deve 
lopment Wing , Ministry of Commerce & Industry , New 

Dalhi. 
15 . Shri N . T . Gopala lengar, Deputy Development Officer , 

(Auto . ) Development Wing , Ministry of Commerce & 
Industry , Very Delhi. 


being persons who , in 

the opinion of the 
Central Government 
have special knowledge 
of matters relating to 
the technical or other 
aspects of the said 
scheduled industries . 


16 . Shri Kundan Lal Secretary , All India Motor Opera - 1 

tors Union , 16A , Asaf Ali Road , New Delhi. 
Shri M . M . Gupta Deputy Transport Commissioner , 
U , P . Roadways, Lucknow . 
Shri M . D . Daftry , General Manager, Bombay State 
Road Transport Corporation , Central Stores, Ghod 
Bunder Road , Santa Cruz, Bombuy . 


being persons who , in 
the opinion of the 
Central Government 
are capable of represen 
ting the interests of 
consumers of goods 
manufactured or pro 
duced by the said 
scheduled industries . 


SEC. 5 ( li )] THE GAZEI TE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 


873 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


and (b ) two other members to be hereafter specified by the Central Government who will 

be persons capable of representing the interests of persons employed in industajul 

undertakings in the said schedulcd industries, 
2. Dr. B . D . Kalelkar shall be the Chairman of the said Development Council , 

3 The Central Government hereby assigns the following functions to the said Develop 
ment Council, namely – 

(I) Recommending targets for production , co -ordinating production programmes and 

revicwing progress from time to time, 
(2 ) Suggesting norms of efficiency with a vicw to eliminating wagte , obtaining maximum 

production , improving quality and reducing costs. 
(3 ) Recommending measures for securing the fullor utilisation of the installed capacity 

and for improving the working of the industry , particularly of the less efficient units . 
(4 ) Promoting arrangments for better marketing and helping in the devising of a system 

of distribution and sale of the produce of the industry which would be satisfactory 

to the consumer . 
(5) Promoting standardisation of products . 
(6 ) Assisting in the distribution of controlled materials and promoting arrangments for 

obtaining materials for the industry ; 
( 7) Promoting or undertaking inquiry as to materials and equipment and as to methods 

of production , manageinent and labour utilisation , including the discovery and 
development of now materials, cquipment and methods and of improvements , in 
these alrcady in use , the assessment of the advantages of different alternatives and 

the conduct of experimental establishments and of tests on a commercial scale , 
( 8 ) Promoting the training of persons engaged or proposing engagments in the industry 

and their eduction in technical or artistic subjects relevent thereto . 
(0 ) Promoting the retraining in alternative occupations of personnel engaged in or retrench 

ed from the industry . 
( 10 ) Promoting or undertaking scientific and industrial research , research into matters 

affecting industrial psychology and research into matters relating to production and 

to the consumption or use of goods and services supplied by the industry . 
KII ) Promoting improvements and standardisation of accounting and costing methods 

and practice . 
( 12 ) Proinoting or undertaking the collection and formulation of statistics. 
( 13 ) Investigating possiblitieis of decentralising stages and processes of production with a 

vicw to encouraging the growth of allied small scalç and cottage industries. 
GW ) Promoting the adoption of measures for incrcasing the productivity of labour, in 

cluding measures for securing safer and better working conditions and the provi 

sion and improvement of amenties and incentives for workers . 
K15 ) Advising on any matters relating to the industry (other than remuneration and con 

ditions of employment) as to which the Central Government may request thc Deve . 
lopment Council to advise and undertaking inquiries for the purpose of enabling 

the Development Council so to advise , and 
( 16 ) Undertaking arrangements for making available to the industry information obtain 

ed and for advising on matters with which the Development Councils are concerned 
in the exercise of any of their functions , 

[No. 4 (17) IA (II)(G )/59 ] 


K . C . MADAPPA , Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Company Law Administration ) 

New Delhi, the 30th March 1959 
S . O . 759 . - In exercise of the powers conferred _ hy sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
609 of the Companies Act ( I of 1956 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that 
the office of the Registrar of Companies, Kerala , now situated at Trivandrum , 
shall be closed there finally on Saturday , the 4th April, 1959 after office hours 
and shall be reopened at Ernakulam with effect from Monday , the 6th April, 1959 . 

[No. 4 / 24 /58 -G .I 
P . B . SAHARYA , Under Secy. 


874 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11 , 1959 / CHAIIRA 21 , 1881 


[PART II 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 31st March 1959 
S . 0 760 - In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Insti 
tution ( Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies 
that two licences , particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed have been renewed . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Sl. Licence No. 
No. and Date. 


Period of Validity 
From 

To 


- Name and Add - Article covered 
ress of the Licen - by the Licence 

все 


Relevant Indian 

Standard 


I CM / L - 72 1 - 4 - 1959 31 - 3 - 1960 The Hindustan Threcphase In - IS : 325 - 1956 
13 - 3 - 1958 

Electric Co. Ltd ., duction Motors Specification for 
Industrial Arca , for Industrial Threcphase IN 
New Township , Use from 1 H . P . duction Motors 
Faridabad to Io H . P . for Industrial 

Use ( Amended ). 
2 CM / L - 751 - 4 - 1959 31- 3 - 1960 The Alkali & BHC Water Dis - IS : 562 - 1955 
14 -3 - 1958 

Chemical Cor . persible Powder Specification for 
poration of India Concentrates BIC Water Dis 
Ltd ., 34 Chow 

Persible Powder 
ringhce, Calcutta 

concentrates . 
- 16 , 


[No.MDC /12 (126 )- L .] 
· New Delhi, the 1st April 1959 
S . O . 761 . - In pursuance of sub - regulations (2 ) and (3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Stan 
dards Institution (Certification Marky) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution here 
by notifies that the Indian Standards, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hcreto annexe 
ed , have been cstablished during the period 16th to 31stMarch 1959 . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Sl. No. No. and title of the Indian Standard 

established 


( 2 ) 


I 


IS : 920 - 1958 Specification for 

Common Salt for Animal Con 
sumption . 


2 


IS : 1201- 1958 Methods for Teste 

ing Tar and Bitumen : Sampling . 


No, and title 
of the Indian 
Standard 
or Standards 

Brief Particulars 
if any, 
superseded 
by the 
new Indian 
Standard 
( 3) 

( 4 ) 
This standard prescribes the IC 
quirements and the methods of 

test for common salt for anima) 
consumtption (Price Re. 1 . 00 ). 
This standard covers 
methodsof sampling 
bitumen and bitum - 
nous materials , in 
their liquid , semi 
solid solid states sup 
plied in any of the 
Following forme : 
( a )cans, small contai 
ness , drums 
and barrels ; 
(b ) rail and road 

tank - cars ; 
(c) storage tanks 

bulk of all types ; 

And 
(d ) bags and solid 
materials in loose 
form 


Sec. $ (II) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11 , 1959/CHAITRA 21, 1881 


875 


- 


- - 


- 


(I) 


(2 ) 


13 ) 


- 


( 4 ) 


3 


IS : 1202- 1958 Merlinds for Test 

ing Tar and Bitumen : Deter 
mination of Specific Gravity 


This standard covers 
the methods for the 
determination of spe 
cific gravity of asph 
alt, bitumen , bitu 
minous products , 
road tar , coal tar , 
coal tar pitch , creo 
sote and anthracene 


oil 


4 


( $ : 1203 - 1958 Mcthods for Testing 

Tar and Bitumen : Determina 
tion of Penetration 


5 


IS : 1204 - 1958 Methods for Test 

ing Tar and Bitumen : Deter 
mination of Residue of specificd 
Penetration 


6 IS : 1205 - 1958 Methods of Testing 

Tar and Bitumen : Determina 
tion of Softening Point 


7 IS : 1206 - 1958 Methods for Testing 

Tar and Bitumen : Determina 
tion of Viscosity 


This standard covers 
the method for the 
determination of 
penetration of asph 
altic bitumen and 
fluxed native asphalt 
and blown type bit 
umcn 
This standard covers 
the mctliod for the 
determination of resi 
due of specified pene 
tration of cutback ) 
bitumens 
This standard covers 
the method for the 
determination of soft - | 
tening point of as - | 
phaltic bitumen and 
fluxed native asphalt , 
road tar , coal tar 
pitch and blown 
type bitumen 
This qtandard covers 
the mehods for 
the determination 
of viscosity of road 

tar and cut 
back bitumens 
This standard covers 
thic methol for the ļ ( Price 
determination of Rs. 5 . 50 
equiviscous tem 

per set of 
perature (EVT) of these 20 
road tar 

standards ) 
This standard covers 
the method ofdeter 
mination of ductility 
of asphaltic bitumen 
and fluxcd native 
asphalt, cutback bi 
tumen and blown 
type bitumen 
This standard covers 
the methods for the 
determination of 
flash point and fire 
point of asphaltic 
bitumen and fluxed ] 
native Asphalt, cut 
back bitumen and 
blown type bitumen 
This standard covers 
the float test for bitu 
minous materials 


8 


IS : 1207 - 1958 Methods for Testing 

Tar and Bitumen : Determina 
tion of Equiviscous Tempera 
ture (EVT) 


9 IS : 1208 - 1958 Methods for Testing 

Tar and Bitumen : Determina 
tion of Ductility 


IO 


IS : 1209 - 1958 Methods for Testing 

Tar and Bitumen : Determina 
tion of Flash Point and Fire 
Point 


II IS : 1210 - 5958 Methods for Testing 

Tar And Bitumen : Float Test 


-876 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 /CHAITRA 21, 1881 


[Part II 


(1) 


(2) 


(4 ) 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


12 IS : 1211 - 1958 Methods for Testing 

Tar and Bitumen : Determina 
tion of Water Content (Dean 
and Stark Method ) 


-13 IS : 121 : 1958 Mihods for Testing 

Car 911 Blumen : Determina 
tion of Loss on Heating 


14. 1S . 1213 - 1958 Methods for Testing 

Tar and Bituinen : Distillation 
Test 


IS 


IS : 1214- 1958 Methods for Testing 

Tar and Bitumen : Determina 
tion of Matter Insoluble in 
Benzenc 


26 IS : 1215 - 1958 Methods for Test 

ing Tur and Bitumen : Deter 
mination of Matter Ir soluble in 
Tolucnc 


This standard covers 
the method for the 
determination of 
water content of as 
phalt bitumen and 
fluxed native asphalt , 
crude coal tar , road 
tar, cutback bitu 
men , Digboi type 
cutback bitumen and 
creosote and anthra 
cenc oil 
This stondard covers 
the method for de 
termination of loss 
on healing of as 
phaltic bitumens 
This standard covers 
the methods for the 
distillation test for 
crude coal tar, road 
tar, curback bitumen , 
Digboi type cutback 
bitumen and creosote 
and anthracene oil 
This stundard covers 
the method for the 
determinatior of 
matter insoluble in 
benzene for creosote 
and anthracene ol ( Price 
This standard covers Rs, 5 . 50 
the incthods for the per set of 
determination of these 20 
matter insoluble in standards) 
toluene for road tar 
and pitch 
This standard covers 
the methods for the l. 
determinution of 
Solubility in Carbon 
disulphide for as 
phaltic bitumens 
and native asphalis 
This standard covers 
the method for the 
determination oimi 
neral matter ( ash ) 
for crude coal tas 
This standard covers 
The method for the 
delcrmination of 
phenoly for road tar 
This standard covers 
the method for the 
determination of 
naphthalene in road 
tar 
This standard covers 
the method for the 
determination of vo 
latile mutter content 
of coal tar pitch 


17 IS : 1216,- 1958 Methods for Testing 

Tar and Bitumen : Determing 
tion of Solubility in Carbon 
Dispulphide 


18 IS : 1217- 1958 Methods for Testing 

Tar und Bitumen : Determina 
tion of Mineral Matter (ASH ) 


19 IS : 1218 - 1958 Methods for Testing 

Tar and Bitumen : Determina 
tion of Phenols 


20 


( S : 1219 - 1958 Methods for Testing 

Tar and Bitumen ; Deterinina 
tion of Naphthalene 


21 19 : 1220 - 1958 Methods for Testing 

Tar and Bitumen : Dutcrmina 
tion of Volatil . Mutter Content 


Jac . (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11 , 1959/ CHAITRA 21, 1381 


877 


(2) 


(3) 


( 4 ) 


22 


IS : 1271- 1958 Classification of 

Insulating Materials for Elec 
tricalMachinery and Apparatus 
in Relation to their Thermal 
Stability in Service 


23 


IS 1276 - 1958 Specification 

Grease , S , No. 2 . 


for 


This classification covers six classes , 
of insulating materials generally 
used in clectrical machinery and 
apparatus in relation to their 
thermal stability in service . (Price 
Rs, 2 . 00 ), 
This standard prescribcs the 
requirements and the methods of 
test for grcase , S . No . 2 used for 
lubrication of anti- friction bear 
ing where the bearing is not 
likely to come in contact with 
water and whicre temperature 
inyolved precludes the use of 
calcium -base greases. (Price 
Rs. 1 :50). 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available for sale with the Indian Standards Institution , 
‘Manak Bhavan , 9 Mathura Road , New Delhi- 1 and algo at its Branch Offices at( i) 40 /40A Cawasji 
Patel Strcct , Fort , Bombay- 1, (i ) P - II Mission Row Extension , Calcutta - I and ( iil ) 2 /21 Fii $ t 
Line Beach , Madras - I . 

[No. MDC / 11(4 ) ). 


S . 0 . 762- In cxercise of the powers conferred by sub - regulations (2 ) and ( 3 ) of regulation: 
3 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian 
Standards Institution hereby notifies the issue of errata slips, praticulars of which are given in 
column ( 4 ) of the Schcdule hereto annexed , in respect of the Indian Standards specified in column . 
(2 ) of the said Schedule. 


THE SCHEDULE 


- - 


- 


$ 1. No , and title of Indian Standard 


Particulars of Errata Slip Issued 


No. and date of 
Gazette Notification 
in which establish 
ment of Indian Stan 
dard was notified . 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


I IS : 1230 - 1957 Specification for S . O , 1699 dated 23rd 

Cast Iron Rain Water Pipes August 1958 . 
and Fittings 


Page 3 , Table I, against the head 

ing "WEIGHT 
Please read "Minimum weight 

per 1 . 5 m effective length for 
Minimum weight per 1 . 5 m 

length effective 
Page 4 , Table II , first chree values 

under Dimension A please 

read 60 for 55 
Page 4 , Tablc III, first six values 

under Dimension A pleasc 

real 60 for 55 
Page 5 , Tablc IV , first value under 

Dimension A plcase read 60 

for 55 
Page 5 , Table V , first value under 

Dimension Ciand first , second 
and fourth valves under Dimen 

sion G please read 60 for ss 
Page 6 , Tablc VI, first value under 
Dimension A please read 60 " 
for 55 


878 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 


[PART II 


SSSR 


(3 ) 


(4 ) 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Page 6 , Tablc VII , first two 

values under Dimension X 

please read 60 for 55 
Page 7 , Table VIII, first valuc 

under Dimension X please read 
60 for 55 . 


Copies of thus crrara slip are available, free of cost, with the Indian Standards Institution , Manak 
Bhavan , 9 Mathura Roud, New Delhi- I and also at its Branch Offices at (1) 40 / 40A Cawasji Patel 
Street, Fort, Bombay - 1, (11) P - II Mission Row Extension , Calcutta - I and (111) 2 / 21 First Line 
Beach , Madra 9 - 1 

[No. MDC /11 ( 10 )] 
New Delhi, the 3rd April 1959 
S . O . 763 - 111 pursuance of sub - regulation (1 ) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Instoitution 
(Cerufation Maks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that 
one licence , particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed has been renewed . 


THF SCHEDULE 


Si. Licence No , and dutc Priod of Validity 


No. 


- 


Name and Ad - Article cover - Relevant In 
dress of the ed by the dian Standard 
Licensee Licence 


From 


to 


I CM /L -71 13 3- 1958 


1- 4- 1959 31-3 -1960 M /S, Travan - Copper Sul- IS 261- 1950 

core Chemi- phetc , Tech - Specification 
cal & Manu - nical, 

for Copper 
facturing Co . 

Sulphate , 
Ltd ., Man 

Technical 
jummel, Post 
Box No . 19 , 
Alwaye . 


- 


[No, MDC/12 ( 186) — L ] 
C . N . MODAWAL Dy. Director (Marks) 


MINISTRY OF STEEL , MINES & FUEL 

(Department of Iron & Steel) 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1959 
$ .O 764 / ESS . COMM / IRON & STEEL – 4 , 5 & 7. — The following notiAcation 
issued by the Iron and Steel Controller under clauses 4 , 5 and 7 of the Iron & 
Steel ( Control) Order is hereby published for general information : 

" NOTIFICATION " 
In exercise of the power conferred on me under clauses 4 , 6 , and 7 of the Iron 
& Steel (Control) Order , 1956 , I, A , S , Bam , I.CS , Iron & Steel Controller hereby 
authorise any foundry owner who is borne on the list of the Development Wing 
of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry , New Delhi, or that of Directors of 
Industries of the State Governments , to acquire Pig Iron to the extent indicated 
in the periodical allotment letters issued by the Authorities mentioned above , 
subject to the following conditions: 
( a ) The Pig Iron thus acquired shall be consumed only at the foundry of 

the allottee as indicated in the relative allotment letter. 


SEC. 8 (!!)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; APRIL 11, 1989 /CHAITRA 21, 1881 


879 


(b ) The allottee shall not dispose of or agree to dispose of or export or 

agree to export from any place to which the Iron & Steel (Control) 
Order , 1956 , extends, any quantity of Pig Iron allotted to him except 
with prlor permission of the Iron and Steel Controller . 

A . S . BAM , 
Iron and Steel Controller ." 


[ No . $ C ( A ) -19 (3 ) / 59 .) 
J. S . BAIJAL , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculture ) 
( India Council of Agricultural Research ) 

New Delhi 2 , the 30th March 1959 
S . O . 765. - In pursuance of the provisions of Rule 22 (4 ) of the Indian Central Coconut 
CommitteeRules , 1945 , the Central Government hereby publish the following audited accounts 
of Receipts and Expenditure of the Indian Central Coconut Committee for the year 1956 - 57 , 
together with the Auditor s Report. 
Inspection report on the Accounts of the Indian Ceniral Coconut Committee, Lrnakulam for the 

yeir 1956 - 57 . 
I. The audited statements of receipts and payments for the year 1956 - 57 are attached . 
II. Cess collections 

According to the records produced for inspection , a total amount of Rs. 1 ,84 ,574 - 14 -0 was due 
to the Committee as on 31 - 3 - 1957 as arrears of cess relating to the period prior to 1 - 4 - 1956 . The 
details of the amount are given below : 


Rs. 


Bombay 
West Bengal 
Baroda 
Saurashtra 
Travancore -Cochin Government . . 
Madras 
Andhra 
Mysore 


14 , 361 8 9 
1 ,689 00 
216 90 

0 2 0 
1,61,652 II 0 

4 ,080 10 
2 ,247 03 
327 14 0 


OOOO 


TOTAL . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


- 


1, 84 ,574 14 0 


It was however observed that the statements furnished by the Collector of Central Excise , 
Madras , in respect of Madras and the former Travancorc - Cochin areas are incomplete and that a 
revised and complete list is yet to be received from him . The ducs mentioned above cannot there 
fore be considered final. 

III. Grants -in - aid 

The extent to which certificates of faudit in respect of the grants are pending receipts as on 
1 - 12 - 1958 is indicated below : 
1954 - 55 

· Certificates due from the States of Bombay and Assam , 
1955- 56 

. Certificates due from Kerala , Assam , Madras (Paraşıte breeding 

station , Thirunelveli) and Bombay ( except Inyestigation , of 

Band discases ). 
1956 - 57 . . . . Certificates due from all stations except the Comprchensive 

cocoanut Nursery and the Parasite Breeding Station , Kasaragod . 


(sd) 
Assistant Accounts Off cer . 


880 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11 , 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 [ PART II 

- = 
Receipts and Payments of the Indian Central Coconut Cummiltce for the g cur chuid March 1957 

(Part I ). 
RECEIPTS , 

- - - - - - - - - - - 
Particulais 

Rs. As. Ps. Rs . As. I s. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Opening Balance as on 1- 4 -1956 . 
Add Security Deposit . . . 


2 , 24 ,452 15 7 

300 00 


2 , 24 , 742 15 
8 ,30,927 6 


7 
ya 


9 , 183 

610 


4 0 
0 11 


47320 9 


Coconut Cess . . . . 
Other Reccipts : 

( a ) receipts from publications 
( ) Miscellancous receipts 
( c ) Receipts from : 

1. Central Coconut Rescarch Station , Kasaragod . 
2 . Central Coconut Research Station , Kayan 
gulam , 

(1 ) Farm Produce . 
( it ) Receipts from the Schemç for the con 

trol of leaf discase of coconuts . 
(d ) Contribution from the Travancore- Cochin Govern 

ment towards setting up of Central Coconut Re 
search Station , Kayangulam , . 

. . 
TOTAL . . . 


21,132 14 6 
4 , 797 90 


1, 06 ,017 6 5 
12,44 ,742 I9 


Receipts and Payments of the Indian Central Coconut Committee for the year ended March 1957 

(Part I). 
PAYMENTS . 


- - - 


- 


- 


Particulars 


Rs. As. Ps. Rs. As, 


Ps. 


- 


- - 


- 


A . Administration 
B . T . A . of Non -Official Members 
C . Publicity & Propaganda 
D . Buildings Residential and Non -Residential 


1 ,22, 875 5 

1,779 14 
53 ,667 8 
50 ,000 0 


7 
0 
2 
0 


Agricultural Research 


81 ,882 3 10 
1, 34 , 235 II II 


(a ) Research Stations. 
(1) Central Coconut Rescarch Station , Kasaragod. 

(a ) Non -Recurring Expenditure , . 

(6) Recurring Expenditure . . . . 
( ii ) Central Coconut Research Station , Kayangulam . 

(a ) Non -Recurring Expenditure , . 
( 6 ) Recurring Expenditure . 
( c) Scheme for the control of leaf discasc of 

coconut. . . . . . 
(6 ) Grant-in -aid schemes 
( 2 ) Rescarch Schemes : - Regional Coconut Re 
Search Station in 

I . Orissa . . 
2 . Travancore , 
3 . Andhra 
4 . Bombay 
5 . Asgam . . . . . . . . 


9 , 246 4 4 
1 ,69, 147 12 3 

11, 316 15 3 


10 ,783 00 
75, 000 0 0 

8 , 191 00 
12 ,111 00 
3 , 142 00 1,09,227 00 


- 


- - - - 


- 


SEC . 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 , CHAITRA 21, 1881 881 
= 

-- -- - - - - - - - 
Particulars 

Rs . As. Ps. Rs. A8. Ps . 
-- - -- 

- 
( 6 ) Coconut Nurseries 
I . Madras - Comprehensive . 

26 , 134 00 
2 . Irinjalukuda, Cochin 

982 00 
3 . Kumta , Bombay . . 

1 ,023 00 
Assam , . 

2 , 264 00 
Orissa , Comprehensive Scheme 

5 ,344 0 0 
Hebbal, Mysore 

9 , 554 0 0 
Nandagon , Bombay 

4 , 985 00 
8 . West Bengal (Chandranagore ) . 

22,323 00 
9 . Scheme for the expansion of Coconut Nur 
series, in Travancorc - Cochin State . 

30 .000 0 0 
10 . Andhra , Comprehensive Scheme . 

6 , 348 0 0 
TI. Ollukkara , Travancore -Cochin State 

95100 
12 . Northern parts of West Bengal 

2 ,694 0 0 
13 . Wadakkancherry , 1 - C . State. . . 

1,524 00 1, 14 , 126 0 0 
(c ) Miscellaneous :- - 
I . Scheme for the establishment of Zonal 

Parasite breeding Stations for biological 

control of Nephantis scrinopa, 
1 . Kasaragod , Madras State , 

1 ,672 00 
2 . Razole -Andhra Stute . . 

687 0 0 
3 . Travancore - Cochin , 

6 , 390 00 
4 . Tirunelveli, Madras State . 

1, 513 00 10 , 262 00 
Scheme for the development of Coconut cultivation in me 
Andamans. 

8 , 533 00 
Do. West Bengal . . 

15 , 149 00 
Scheme for maintenance of a representative varicties of 
coconuts in Assam . . . 

680 00 
Investigation of band disease of coconut palms in Bombay 
Statc . . . 

5 , 254 00 
Repayment of Government of India loan 

1 , 00 , 122 0 0 
By closing Bulance with the State Bank of India , Cochin 2 ,37,904 74 
Impreget Indian Central Coconut Committee . 

750 00 
Central Coconut Research Station , Kasaragod 

1 , 500 00 
Central Coconut Rescarch Station , Kayangulam , 

1 , 50000 
Adyances Received Account 
Indian Central Coconut Committee . 

2 ,684 
Central Coconut Rescarch Station , Kasaragod 

1 ,006 0 0 
Central Coconut Research Station , Kayangulam . 

1 ,022 0 
Caution Money Deposit 

5000 
Advance for purchase of conveyance . . 

569 00 
Festival Advance , Indian Central Coconut Committee . 
Festival Advance , Central Coconut Research Station , 
Kayangulam , , . 

158 OO 
Festival Advance, Central Coconut Research Station , 
Kasaragod . . . . . 

. . . 

16 0 0 2,47,237 6 5 
TUTAL . . . . 

12 , 44 , 742 19 


77 


- - 


- - - - - 
Sd 
Deputy Comptroller (O AD ) 


$ d / 
Secretary , 
Indian Central Coconut 

Committee 
Ernakulam . 


Sd / 
Accountant, 
Indian Central Coconut 

Committee 
Ernakulam . 


Receipts and Payments Accort of the Indian Central Coconut Committee for the year Ended March , 1957 

(PART II) 


882 


RECEIPTS 


PAYMENTS 


Particulars 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Particulars 


Rs. As. Ps 


Rs. As. Ps. 


. 


. 


382 4 0 


In contribution from the Central Govern - 
ment towards Schemes under the Second 
Five Year Plan 

: : : 2,41,265 OO 
Less cost of revenue stamps deducted by 
the State Bank of India , Cochin 

02 


I. By Administration . . 
II. Agricultural Research : 

Research Stations : 
2,41,264 14 0 

(1) Central Coconut Research Stat 

ion , Kasaragod : 

Non - recurring Expenditure . 
( ii ) Central Coconut Research Stat 

ion , Kayangulam 
Non - recurring Expenditure 
Closing Balance with the State 
Bank of India 


47,256 Oo 


TJIEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL11,1959/CHAITRA21,1881 


1,08 ,715 OQ 

87, 911 100 
241,264 14 0 


TOTAL 


2,41,264 


14 


0 


TOTAL . 


. 


. 


. 


sdl 


Sdi 
Secretary , 
Indian Central Coconut Commitee , 

Ernakulam , 


Sd / 
Accomtant , 
Indian Central Coconut Committee , 

Emakulam . 


Deputy Comptroller ( 0 .A . D .) 


[PARTII 


Receipts and Payments Account of the Indian Central Coconut Committee Provident Fund for the year ended 31st March , 1957. 
RECEIPTS 

PAYMENTS 


Particulars 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Particulars 


Rs. As Ps 


Rs. As. Ps. 


To opening balance as on 1- 4 - 1956 Post 

Office Savings Account 


By subscribers Account Advance 
5 ,595 OO Subscribers ) . 


to 


10 ,213 00 


To Subscription Account 


Investments 


Subscription Received 
Refund of adyacnewith interest 


19 ,777 3 0 
6 , 779 00 


24,700 OO 


, 


26 ,556 


3 


O 


Post Office National Savings Certificates 
By dosing balance in the Post Office 

Savings Bank Account . . 


8,248 8 


0 


To Contribution account , 


Sec.$(11)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL11,1959/CHAITRA21,1881 


Contribution received . 

special contribution by the Com 

mmittee to subscribers 
In rest on post office Savings Bank 

Account for the year 1955 - 56 


9 ,571 00 

29 120 
43 ,161 80 


43 , 161 


8 


0 


EXPENDITURE 
To Interestcredited to subscription ac 

count . . . . 
To Interest credited to contribution ac 

count 


INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT 

INCOME 

By Special contribution from the Com 
3 ,612O 

m ittee for payment of interest : 

By Interest on Post Office National Say 
1, 964 0 0 ings Certificates . . . . 


1,408 90 
4,065 Oo 


Excess interest on Post Office Savings 

Bank Account taken credit in 1955 - 56 


By Interest on Post Office Savings Bank 
I OO Account 


103 7 0 . 
5,577 OO 


5 ,577 00 


883 


Particulars 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Particulars 


Rs. As. Ps . Rs. As Ps. 


LIABILITIES 


1925 , 050 00 
24 , 700 0 0 


1, 49 ,750 00 


Subscription Account : 

As per last Balance Sheet 
Subscription received during the year. 
Refund ofAdvance with Interst 
Interest credited during the year 


BALANCE SHEET AS ON 31ST MARCH 1957 

ASSETS 

Post Office National Savings Certificates: 
87 ,935 00 

As per last Balance Sheet , . 
19 , 777 30 

Investment during the year . . 
6 ,779 OO 

Balance in Post Office Savings Bank 

Account 
3 ,612 00 

Interest accrued on Post Office Savings 
1 ,18 ,103 30 

Bank Account for 1956 - 57 . 
10 ,213 ao 1 , 07 , 899 3 0 Interest accrued on Post Office National 

Savings Certificates Upto 31 - 3 - 1957 


8 ,248 


8 


0 


103 7 0 


Less advance to subscribers 


13,625 OO 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL11,1959/CHAITRA21,1881 


Contribution Account: 

As per last Balance Sheet 
Contribution received during the year , 
Intere t credited during the year 


52 , 301 120 
9 ,571 00 
1, 964 00 


63 ,836 120 


1,71,726 15 


0 


1, 71,726 15 


O 


Sdi 


Sd / 
SECRETARY, 
INDIAN CENTRAL COCONUT 
COMMITTEE , ERNAKULAM . 


Sdi 
ACCOUNTANT, 
INDIAN CENTRAL COCONUT COMMITTEE , 
ERNAKULAM . 


DEPUTY COMPTROLLER (O . A . D .) 


(AJUDHIA PRASADA ) 
Under Secretary to the Goveroment of India , 


[PARTII 


Sec . 5 ( 11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 1 885 

- - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 

(Department of Transport ) 
( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1959 
S . O . 766 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Bombay Port 
* Trust Act, 1879 ( Bombay Act 6 of 1879 ), the Central Government hereby appoints 
the following persons to be members of the Board of Trustees of the Port of 
Bombay for a period of two years from the 1st April 1959 : 
The Commissioner of Police , Bombay (Representative of the Government 

of Bombay ). 
Shri C . P . Srivastava , Senior Deputy Director General of Shipping . Bombay 

(Representative of the Mercantile Marine Department. Bombay ). 
The Suh - Area Commander , Bombay (Representative of the Defence Services ). 
The Flag Officer, Bombay (Representative of the Defence Services ). 

[ No. 8. C -PG (5 )/ 89 -I.] 


S . O . 767. — In pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 6 of the Bombay Port 
"Trust Act , 1879 (Bombay Act 6 of 1879), the Central Government hereby publishes 
the following returns received from ( i) the Bombay Municipal Corporation , ( u ) the 
Indian Merchants Chamber , Bombay (lii) the Bombay Chamber of Commerce & 
Industry , Bombay ( iv ) the Indian National Şteamship Owners Association , Bombay 
( v ) the Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce , Bombay (vi) the East India Cotton 
Association , Bombay ( vii) the Millowners Association , Bombay and ( viil) the All 
India Sailing Vessels Industries Association , Bombay : 
Returns showing the names of persons elected in accordance with the pro 

visions of the Bombay Port Trust Act , 1879 to be members of the 
Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay for a period of two years 
from the 1st April 1959, 


Name of Electing Body 


Name of persons elected 


Municipal Corporation of Greater 

Bombay . 
The Indian Merchants Chamber , 

Bombay . 
The Bombay Chamber of Commerce 

& Industry , Bombay . 
The Indian National Steamshup 

Owners Association , Bombay. 
The Maharashtra Chamber of Com 

merce , Bombay. 
The East India Cotton Association 

Limited , Bombay . 
The Millowners Association , Bombay . 
The All India Salling Vessels Indus 

trles Association , Bombay , 


Shri R . S . Pandey 
Dr. S . G . Patel 
Shri Devji Rattansey 
Shri B . D . Somani 
Shri C . H . Bhabha 
Shri Ambalal Kllachand 
Shri E , A , Jenkins 
Shri C , W . Couch 
Shri H . M . Desai 
Shri Vikramsinh S . Vallabhdase 
Shri B . D , Galware 
Shri Madanmohan R . Ruia 
Shri Arvind N . Matatlal 
Shri Damodar Mathuradan Ashar 


[No. 8.C - PG (5 ) / 59-II. ] 

MISS I, INDIRA , Under Secy . 
( Department of Transport) 

( Transport Wing ) 

New Delhi, the 4th April 1959 
S . O . 768 . In pursuance of sub - rule 2 ) of rule 11, clausę (b ) of sub - rule 
( 2 ) of rule 14 and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Central Civil Services ( Classi 
fication , Control and Appeal ) Rules , 1957, the President hereby makes the follow 
ing further amendment in the Schedule to the notification of the Government 


886 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLI : APRIL 11, 1959 /CHAITRA 21, 1881 


[ Patr II 


of India in the late Ministry of Transport No. S . R . O . 610 , dated the 28th 
February , 1957, namely : 

In Part II and III of the said Schedule, in the heading " Regional Sailing 
Vessels Organisation , Bombay / Tuticorin /Masulipatam ," , the following shall be 
omitted , namely : 
" , Bombay / Tuticorin /Masulipatam ." . 

[No. 40 -MS ( 213 ) /57 /SY.] 
K . N . NAGAR , Under Secy . 


(Departments of Communications & Civil Aviation ) 

New Delhi, the 4th April 1959 
S . O . 769 . - Whereas on March 29 , 1959 , an Indian Airlines Corporation 
Dakota VT-CGI while operating a scheduled passenger service from Agartala to 
Silchar , crashed in a Tea garden in Maneknagar , 15 miles South -West of Haila 
kandi, resulting in the death of all the twenty passengers and four members of 
the crew ; 

And whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is expedient to 
hold a formal investigation of the said accident: 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Rule 75 of the Indian 
Aircraft Rules , 1937, the Central Government directs that a formal investigation 
of the said accident be held . 

The Central Government is further pleased to appoint Shri B . K . Choudhuri, 
a retired Judge of the Madhya Pradesh High Court , to hold the said investigation . 
The Central Government is also pleased to appoint: 
( 1) Dr . V . M . Ghatage, Deputy General Manager and Chief Designer , 

Hindustan Alrcraft Limited , Bangalore , 
( 2 ) Group Captain M . S . Aulakh , Indian Air Force . 
( 3 ) Shri Y , R . Malhotra , Chief Inspector of Accidents , Civil Aviation 

Department, New Delhi . 
to act as assessors to the sald Investigation . 

[No. 7 -A /21-59.) 
K . K . UNNI, Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL, AFFAIRS 


New Delhi- 2 , the 12th January 1959 


9 . O . 770 . - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 48 of Order XXI the first 
schedule of the Code of Civil procedure , 1908 ( 5 of 1908 ) , the Central Government 
hereby appoints the officer specified in column 1 of the table below , as the Ufficer 
to whom notices of orders attaching the salaries and allowances of the officers 
specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of the said table shall be sent 

TABLE 


Oficer 


- - 
to whom notices should 

be sent 


Officers whose salaries and allowances 

are attached 


Director in charge of the Indian 

School of Mines and Applied 
Geology , Dhanbad. 


Gazetted and Non -Gazetted officers of 

the Indian School of Mines and 
Applied Geology , Dhanbad. 


[No, F , 25 - 142 / 58 . T.6. ] 
M , V . D . NAIR , Assisant Educational Adviser ( T ) . 


BAC , 3 ( 11) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21 1ANI 


887 


MINISTRY OF WORKS , HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 14th March , 1959 
S . O . 771 - In exercise of ihe powers confcrred by the Proviso to Article 309 of the Consti 
tution the President hereby directs that the method and field of recrutment for the post of Storc 
Keeper in the Government Test House , Calcutta under the Directorate General of Supplies and 
Disposals shall be as shown in the Annexure . 


ANNEXURE 


Recruitment Rules for the post of Store-Keeper in the Govt. Test House, 


I, Nameof Post 

Store Keeper, 
2 . No. of post, 

One. 
3 . Classification whether Gazetted or Non -gazetted Class III Non -ministerial Non -Gazetted . 
4 . Scale of pay 

Rs 150 - 7 - 185 - 8 - 225 . 
5 . Whether selection or non -selection post 

Selection Post . 
6 . Age limit for direct recruitment 

25 years ( relaxable in favour of certain ex 

cepted categories , such as members of the 
Scheduled Castes / Tribes , displaced persons 
etc , to the extent prescribed in the orders 
198ued by the Govt , of India , Ministry of 

Home Affairs . 
7. Educational and other qualifications - . Educational : Graduate in Science . 

Experience . At least 2 ycars experience 10 

Store keeping and maintenance of stock 
registers for technical laboratory storcs and 

cquipments, 
8 . Whether age and educational qualification . The prescribed age limit will not apply in the 

prescribed for direct recruitment will also apply case of promotion / transfer of departmental 
in case of recruitment by promotion or transfer. candidates but cducational qualificacions 

will apply 
9 . Period of probation 

One year. 
10 . Recruitment and percentage of vacancies to be By promotion if suitable candidates are avail 
filled by various modes . 

able in the GT. H . or by transfer from 
other Regional offices failing whiclı by 

direct recruitment. 
II. In case of vacancies filled by promotion , trans- For promotion : 

for etc . grades /sources from within promotion From U . D Clerks of the G .TH 
etc , are to be made. 

For Transfer : 
U . D Clerks/Assistant Store Keeper /Super 

Visor in other Regional Offices . 
12 . Circumstances under whiclı UPSC. is to be Does not arise . 

consulted in making recruitment, 


(NO LESII - 49 (14)/ 58.) 
R . RAJAGOPALAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 


New Delhi, the 31st March 1959 


$ . O . 1772 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 3 
of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shğı Gulbahar Singh as Assistant 
Settlement Omcer , for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officers by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took charge of his 
office 


(NO 8 / 138 /59- Admn ( R ) ] 


$ . 0 . 779. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( a ) of Sub - Section 
( 2 ) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act 
No 44 of 1954, the Central Government hereby appoints each of the following 
Officers for the time being holding the posts of Settlement Commissioners in the 


= 


888 TIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 PIKT IL 
— 

- = 
regions noted against each , as Managing Officer for the custody , management and , 
disposal of compensation pool:- - 


1. Shri H . R . Nair , Delhi. 
2. Shri H , K . Chowdhry , Bombay . 
3. Dr, Tara Chand , Jaipur. 
4 . Shri P . N . Khanna, Indore. 
5 . Shri Khushi Ram , Jullundur . 
6 . Shri Kulwant Singh , Patiala . 
7 . Shri R , S . Dass , Lucknow . 


[No. 16 ( 23 ) -Admn (Prop ) / 58. ] 


S . O . 774 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( a ) of Sub - Section 
( 2 ) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act 
No. 44 of 1954, the Central Government hereby appoints each of the following 
Officers for the time being holding the post of Assistant Settlement Commissioners 
in the Districts noted against each as Managing Officer , for the custody , manager 
ment and disposal of Compensation pool: 

1. Shri G . L . Ajwani, Delhi. 
2 . Shri A . S . Lokanathan, Delhi, 
3. Shri I. D , Chowdhry , Delhi. 
4 , Shri S . P , Passy, Delhi. 
5 . Shri H . C . Matta , Jullundur . 
6 . Shri H , R . Seth , Ludhiana. 
7. Shri R . N . Mahna , Gurdaspur . 
8 . Shri Sohan Lal, Amritsar. 
9. Shri K . D . Soni, Patiala . 
10 . Shri A . R . Malhotra , Rohtak . 
11 . Shri Gurdas Singh , Ambala . 
12 . Shri A , S , Gosain , Karnal, 
13 . Shri D . L . Bhalla , Rajkot, 
14 . Shri Y . R . Ahuja , Patna . 

[ No. 16 (23 )- Admn (Prop ) /58.] 


New Delhi, the 2nd April 1959 
S . O . 775. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( i ) of 
Section 3 or the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 
(44 of 1954 ) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri I. B . Saxena as 
Assistant Settlement Oncer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officers by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took 
charge of his office . 


This office Notification No . 8 / 137 / 39 -Admn ( R ) dated 30th March , 1959 1s 
hereby cancelled , 

(No. 8 / 137 / 59 -Admn ( R ). ] 


New Dethi, the 3rd April 1959 


S . O . 776 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 ( No . 12 of 1954 ) . 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri G . B . Lalwani as Settlement 
Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
Commissioner by or under the said Act. 

. [ No . 11- A (54 ) / CSC / A1-59.] 
S . O . 777, - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri G . B . Lalwani as Settlement 


889 


- 


Sec . 9 ( II)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 
- - - - - - --- -- - - 

- - = = 

= 
Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
Commissioner by or under the said Act. 

[ No. 11 - A (54 ) /CSC / AI-59. ] 

M . L . PURI, 
Settlement Commissioner ( Admn . ) & 

Ex -OMcio Under Secy . 


(Omce of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 3rd April 1959 
S . O . 78 . — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub -section ( 2 ) of 
Section 10 of the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 ( 12 of 
1954 ) , I have delegated to Shri G . B . Lalwani, Settlement Commissioner, with 
effect from 23rd March , 1959 , the following powers of the Chief Settlement 
Commissioner : - 
1 . Power to call for the record of any case decided by the Settlement 

Officer and pass order in the case under provision to sub - section ( 3 ) 

of Section 4 of the said Act . 
2 . Special power of revision under Section ( 5 ) of the said Act, in respect 

of cascs decided under the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Act, 1950 
(44 of 1950 ) . 

[No. 11 - A (54 ) -59/ CSC / AI- II.) 
S .O . 779 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub -section ( 2 ) of 
Section 10 of the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 ( 12 of 
1954 ) , I have delcgated to Shri G . B . Lalwani, Settlement Commissioner , with 
effect from 23rd March , 1959 , the following powers of the Chief Settlement 
Commissioner , namely : 
1 . Power to transfer cases to Settlement Officers by general or special 

order under sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 4 of the said Act . 
2 . Power to require a Settlement Officer to appoint one or more persons 

to advise him in any proceeding pending before him , under sub 

section ( 2 ) of Section 6 of the said Act . 
3 . Power to transfer any casc pending before a Settlement Officer to 
another Settlement Officer under Section 7 of the said Act. 

[No . 11 - A ( 54 ) / CSC / AI-59 - 111. ) 


S . O . 780 . — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub - section ( 2 ) of 
Section 34 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , I hereby dclcgate to Shri G . B . Lalwanı, Şettlement Commissioner 
with effect from the 23rd March , 1959 , the following powers of the Chief Settle 
ment Commissioner : - 

1. Power to hear appeals under Section 23 of the said Act. 
2 . Power to hear revisions under Section 24 of the said Act . 

[No. 11 - A (54 ) /CSC /A1- 59 - IV . ] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 3rd April 1959 
S . O . 781. . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of 
Section 35 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , I, Shri L . J . Johnson , I. C . S ., Chief Settlement Commissioner , hereby 
authorise Chaudhry Jhanda Singh , Assistant Settlement Commissioner, Jaipur 
to make a complaint in writing in a court of law against any person who fur 
nishes in his application for payment of compensation or in declaration under 
Chapter X of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules, 
1955 , any information which he knows or has reason to believe to be false or 
which he does not believe to be true. 

[ No. F . 10 ( 28 ) Comp- II /56 -Policy - I.] 

L . J. JOHNSON , 
Chief Settlement Commissioner. 


- 


890 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAURA 21, 1881 [PART IE 
- = = = - - - - 

- - - - - -- - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1959 
S . O . 782. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes a 
Labour Court with head -quarters at Delhi, and appoints Shri E . Krishnamurti 
as the Presiding Ofcer of that Court, 

[No. LR -I - 1 ( 135 ) /58. ) 
A . L . HANDA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 4th April 1959 
S . O . 783 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Central Government Labour Court, Nagpur at Bombay , in the industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the Balaghat Mine of Central 
Provinces Manganese Ore Company Limited , Nagpur, and thcir workmen in the 
matter of an industrial dispute relating to the transfer of Shri Saiyed Ally and 
his subsequent termination of service . 


BEFORE SIIRI P . D . VYAS, JUDGE , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT LABOUR 

COURT, NAGPUR AT BOMBAY 
REFERENCE (LC ) No . 1 OF 1958. 

AN ADJUDICATION BETWEEN 
The employers in relation to the Balaghat Mine of Central Provinces Manga 
nese Ore Company Limited , Nagpur, 


AND 


Their Workmen . 
In the matter of an industrial dispute relating to the transfer of Shri Saiyed 
Ally and his subsequent termination of service. 
APPEARANCES : 
Shri A , S . Bobde, Advocate with Shri M . L . Vaidya, Advocate for the Manage 

ment. 


Shri S . G . Kukday , with Shri D . $. Nargaolkar , and Shri Naqvi, Advocates , 

for the workmen , 


AWARD 


In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , the Central Government was pleased to 
retcr an industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the Balaghat 
Mine of Central Provinces Manganese Ore Company Ltd ., Nagpur and their 
workmen for adjudication under the Government Order No. LR - II -57 - 2 ( 11) /57 . 
dated 21st January , 1958 as amended by a subsequent corrigendum , dated 8th 
March 1958 under File No. LRII -57 - 2 ( 11 ) / 57. The dispute relates to the matters 
specifcd in the schedule annexed to the said order , 


SCHEDULE 


"Whether the transfer of Shri Saiyed Ally from Balaghat Mine to Tirodi 

Mine and his subsequent termination of service are justificd ? If 
not , what relief he is entitled to ? " 


2 . The dispute in the present case relates to the transfer of an employee 
Shri Saiyed Ally from Balaghat Mine to Tirodi Group of Mincs and his subse 
quent termination of service . He was in the employment of Balaghat Mine of 
Central Provinces Manganese Ore Company Limited ( referred to hereinafter 
as the employers or the Company ) since his appointment in 1953 as an Electric 
Welder . He is the Secretary of the Bliarveli Manganese Udyog Rashtriya 
Kamngar Union and on the usual notices being issued , though he first filed the 


Sro . % (11) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11 , 1959 /CHAITRA 21 , 1881 


89r 


- 


- - 


- 


= 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


statement of claims in his name, it has been subsequently adopted by the Presi 
dent of the Union under his letter received on 27th May 1958 . The letter states : 
" I beg to bring to your kind notice that the statement of claims filed by 

the workman Shri Saiyed AL , Welder of Bharwelli, has been filed 
by him as General Secretary of the Union . It is , therefore, requested 
that the Union adopts the statement as filed by the workman Shri 

Saiyed Ali, Welder ." 
To the letter is enclosed a copy of the resolution , dated 23rd May 1958 of the 
Executive Committee of the Union adopting the statement of claims filed by 
Shri Saiyed Ally . On behalf of the employers the Agent and General Manager 
has filed the written statement. 


3 . The case on behalf of the workmen is that Shri Saiyed Ally was appointed 
as an Electric Welder at the Bharveli Mine of the Company on a clear under 
standing that he would be posted permanently at Bharveli. Moreover , the 
Standing orders of the Company do not provide for the transfer of a workman 
from one undertaking to another . In spite of this he was served with a transfer 
order , dated 7th November 1956 to proceed to Tirodi. Though he submitted a 
representation against his transfer on account of his wife s illness , the same 
was not considered nor was he allowed to work , It was due to the intervention 
of the Conciliation Oficer ( C ) that he was allowed to work at Bharyeli but 
soon after the Management received the failure report of the Conciliation pro 
ceedings on 29th December 1956 , he was served with a fresh order of transfer , 
of the same date calling upon him to join at Tirodi by 9th January 1957. On 2nd 
January 1957 he had to proceed to Nagpur on account of his sister s illness and 
when he returned at Bharveli on 7th January 1957 he was served with a charge 
sheet and also called upon under the letter, dated 9th January 1957 that he 
should report at South Tirodi Mine at 8 AM , on 11th January 1957 failing which 
he would be deemed to have deserted his post and treated as discharged . On 
10th January 1957 he intimated the fact of his illness together with a medical 
certificate and also requested the management to stay the order of transfer but 
he was dismissed from service with eifect from 14th January 1957. He never 
refused to carry out the transfer order and that he had all the while been 
making representations against the same which the mangiament did not take 
into account. 

4 . Originally Shri Saiyed Ally was working in the Rashtriya Prantik Kamgar 
Sangh and was an active member thereof. Later he being dissatisfied with the 
policy of the said Union as detrimental to the interests of the workers as well 
as to the development of the trade union movement, left it and started a new 
onc under the name of Bharveli Manganese Udyog Rashtriya Kamgar Union . 
It was because of his trade injon activities that the management started a series 
of acts of victimization against him ultimately culminating in the order of his 
transfer which was malajide and uncalled for. The alleged reason of the trans 
fer viz . the need of a Welder at Tirodi Mine was just got up with a view to 
remove him from the field of his trade union activities . Moreover, certain 
circumstances prevented him from going on transfer to Tirodi but no oppor 
tunity was given to him to substantiate them . The action of the management 
is not only opposed to the principles of natural justice and in violation of the 
provisions of the standing orders but is actuated with an ulterior motive of 
victimization . The order of transfer and his subsequent termination of service 
are unjustified and the management be directed to reinstato him with full 
compensation and back wages . 

5 . The case on behalf of the Company is that Shri Saiyed Ali was appointed 
as Welder at Bharveli, i. e ., Balaghat Minc of the Company but there was no 
understanding of posting him there permanently . The allegations made by the 
workmen in regard to the order of transfer are not true. The company has 
22 Manganese Mines in the State of Madhya Pradesh and the Vidarbha region 
of the State of Bombay and at some of these mines the Company maintains 
workshops. It was because of the increase of work at the Company s Balaghat 
Mine that Shri Saiyed Ally was appointed as an Additional Welder on 23rd 
July 1953, the other two Welders being Shri Robert James and Shri Michael 
Louis . In the yeur 1955 the cmployment of an additional Welder at the Tirodi 
Group of Mines became necessary owing to the complicated additional construc 
tion work then in progress . Shri Saiyed Ally being an experienced and com 
petent Welder his tiansfer was thought to be suitable and useful in view of the 
work at Tirodi as well as for want of sufficient work at the time at Balaghat 
for three Weldery . He however all along agitated against the order of transfer 
on one ground or the other and continued at Balaghat till 29th December 1956 


892 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 (Part II 
= = = = - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 

- - - - - 

- = S 
without complying with the order of transfer and intermittently absenting him 
self , at times with prior permission and at times without it. He was therefore 
served with a final notice by the Manager , Balaghat Mine, dated 29th December 
1956 requiring him to proceed to Tirodi and report for duty there by 3rd 
January 1957. He however continued to flout the transfer order on one ground 
or the other and he was therefore served with a charge - sheet on 7th January 
1957 to explain why uction should not be taken against him under section 10 ( a ) 
of the standing orders of the Company for disobedience of the order of transfer . 
In reply to this charge - sheet he submitted his explanation , dated 8th January 
1957 and on consideration of the explanation the Minę Manager , Balaghat Mine 
informed him by his letter , dated 9th January 1957 that he was guilty of a 
obedience of his order , dated 29th December 1956 . At the same time in view 
of the circumstances, viz ., the illness of his sister , the Minc Manager further 
stated in the said letter that he was prepared to extend the date of his reporting 
to the Mines Manager , Tirodi Group of Mines upto January 11 , 1957 and if he 
failed to do so he would be deemed to have descrted his post, and would be 
treated as a discharged worker . Again by his letter , dated 10th January 1957 
he reſusced to carry out the order of transfer on the ground of the alleged 
illness . The mine Manager did not accept the medical certificate submitted 
by him because as per the practice the Company accepts only the certificate 
from a Medical Oncer of the Company before granting permission to remain 
absent on medical grounds. He was therefore informed by the Mine Manager 
by his letter , dated 14th January 1957 that he stood discharged from the cmploy 
ment under section 10 ( a ) of the Company s standing orders. Thereafter on 
20th January 1957 one Shri Lazarus was employed as an additional Welder at 
Tirodi Mines . In the circumstances the Company had no option but to confirm 
the discharge of Shri Saiyed Ally , as it was badly in need of the services of a 
Welder at its Tirodi Mine and could not brook further delay in that regard . His 
transfer from Balaghat Mine to Tirodi mine was in the normal course of busi 
ness and his subsequent discharge was necessitated due to his persistent refusal 
to carry out the transfc . order in question . Besides, the present reference for 
adjudication is in - competent inasmuch as the alleged dispute is merely an indi 
vidual dispute and not converted into an industrial one For all the reasons 
the reference be rejected with costs . 


6 . The first question arising for our consideration is whether the dispute 
referred for adjudication is an industrial dispute within the meaning of section 
2 ( k ) of the Industria ) Disputes Act, 1947. On behalf of the Company it has 
- been contended that the subject -matter of the dispute being the transfer and 
subsequent termination of service of one individual workman Shri Saiyed Ally , 
it is an individual dispute and it has not been at any time taken up collectively 
by the workmen so as to convert it into an industrial dispute . In this connec 
tion reference may be made to the recent judgment of the Supreme Court of 
India in the case of the Newspapers Limited ( 1957 II L . L . J . p . 1 ) where in lay 
ing down the true import of the definition of industrial dispute in Uttar Pradesh 
Industrial Disputes Act [which is defined as having the same meaning assigned 
- to it as in section 2 ( k ) of Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ] their Lordships held : 


" The Act is based on the necessity of achieving collective amity between 

labour and capital by means of conciliation , mediation and adjudi. 
cation . The object of the Act is the prevention of industrial strife , 
strikes and lockouts and the promotion of industrial peace and not 
to take the place of the ordinary tribunals of the land for the 
enforcement of contracts between an employer and an individual 
workman . Thus viewed the provisions of the Act lead to the con 
clusion that its applicability to an individual dispute as opposed 
to dispute invplving a group of workmen is excluded unless it 
acquires the general characteristics of an industrial dispute , viz ., 
the workmen as a body or a considerable section of them make 
common cause with the individual workman and thus create condi 
tions contemplated by section 3 of the Uttar Pradesh Act which is 
the foundation of the State Governmental action under that Act." 


The same considerations will apply in a reference made by the Government 
under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. In order that the dispute referred for 
adjudication under the present reference is an industrial dispute, what we have 
to see is whether the workmen as a body or a considerable section of them have 
made a common cause with the individual workman , in other words whether 
an individual dispute has been converted into a collective dispute so as to amount 
- to an industrial dispute within the meaning of section 2 ( k ) of the Act . 


SEC. 9 (11 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 /CHAITRA 21 , 1881 1 892 
S S - = - = 

- = -- - - - - - - - - - 

= = 
7 . There is overwhelming evidence on record to indicate the fulAlment of the 
necessary condition and there can be no doubt that a considerable section of 
the workmen collectively in a body have taken up the cause of Shri Saiyed Ali . 
Soon after the order of transfer ihere was conciliation on 21st December 1956 
the proceedings whereof indicate that three clected repiesentatives of the work 
men took up the matter before the Conciliation Officer and the preliminary 
objection raised by the management in this connection was disallowed . No 
doubt, the Conciliation Officer in his failure report, dated 22nd December 1956 
has referred to Section 36 of the Act which deals with the representations of 
che parties in any proceeding under the Act , but this was not the case of mere 
representation or appearance on behalf of the concerned workman to conduct 
the procecdings. In fact these three elected representatives took up the cause 
of the concerned workman before the Conciliation Officer on behalf of the 
general body of workmen . It will be shown infra how Shri Saiyed Ally left 
the INTUC Union to which he originally belonged and took active part in fcrin . 
ing another Union some time before the transfer order was made against him . 
A large majo ity of workmen were on his side and it was because of the fear 
on the part of the Management that if Shri Saiyed Ally succeeded in forming : 
a second Union , that might affect its bargaining strength with the old Union 
which the Management recognised , that a transfer order was made to remove 
him from the field of his activities as a leading Union worker at Balaghat 
( Bha veli ) Mine. The minutes of discussions in the said Conciliation Proceed 
ings which took place on 21st December 1956 disclose that Shri Saiyed Ally did 
not seek the assistance of the other Union because of his disagreement with the 
same but he was supported by about 728 signatories who were the workmen 
engaged in Balaghat Mine and it was on the suggestion of the Conciliation 
Officer that his cau : e was represented by three elected representatives out of 
the said workmen . 


8 . Another important document on record is the statement of demands, dated 
16th October 1957 which the elected representatives of the workers forwarded 
to the Government prior to the Government Order of reference for adjudication , 
dated 21st January 1958. In the statement of demands in narrrating the pre 
vious history of the dispute and the trade union activities of Shri Saiyed Ally , 
it is made clcar that the workers of the Union , 1. e . Bharveli Manganese Udyog 
Rashtriya Kamgar Union with a membership of 813 members are affected by 
the dispute relating to Shri Saiyed Ally and a dcputation of workers wanted 
to meet the management and applied several times for the purpose but the 
management paid no heed to the same and as the conciliation proceedings have 
failed , the matter be ordered to be placed before the Labour Court immediately 
so that he may be reinstated with back wages and justice done to him . There 
are papers on record which go to show that soon after the transfer order was 
made against Shri Saiyed Ally , the workers protested against the same saying 
that it was an act of victimization simply to break the workers Union and when 
ultimately his services were terminated on 14th January 1957 there was a meeting 
held on 16th January , 1957 where it was decided unanimously that the Union 
should take up the matter of Shri Salyed Ally before the Conciliation authorities 
as also right up to the Labour Court. On the same day a letter was addressed by 
the members of the Works Committee to the Mine Manager saying that the 
demand which they made was not only their demand in their capacity 
as representatives of the workers but that it was a collective demand of all the 
workers. There was a general meeting of the workers held on 3rd February , 
1957 which protested against the termination of the services of Shri Saiyed Ally 
and moreover decided that unless the Company complied with their request , the 
matter should be placed before proper authorities in order to obtain justice . Since 
after the present order of reference , the general meeting of the workers held on 
6th February , 1958 thanked the Government for the same and authorised the 
Exccutive Committee to fight out the matter on behalf of Shri Salyed Ally . In a 
Ineeting of the Executive Committee held on 27th April, 1958 it was decided 0 
glve all assistance to Shri Saiyed Ally in the dispute before this Tribunal and 
during the pendency of this reference hundreds of workers have addressed letters 
to this Tribunal saying that they are prepared to appear before the Tribunal in 
proof of the fact that they are supporting the present dispute and have taken up 
the cause of Shri Saiyed Ally . 


9 . On behalf of the Company Shri Suraj Lal Gupta , General Secretary of the 
Rashtriya Khadan Prantik Kamgar Sangh has been examined . It was this Union 
which Shri Saiyed Ally left because of his disagreement with the same and 
admittedly he was not a member thereof when the present dispute arose. This 
Union may not have taken up his cause for obvious reasons but there is a large 
number of workers who did support his cause and have treated the question of 


Care 


.894 THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 /CHAITRA 21, 1881 [Pars II 

- - - = -- - - - - 
his transfer and subsequent termination of service as a collective dispute . This 
is the Union recognized by the Management and its total membership in the 
industry mainly consists from amongst the mines belonging to the present com 
pany. So far as the Balaghat Mine where Shri Saiyed Ally was working is 
. concerned , this Union out of about 1700 to 1800 workers employed there had the 
membership of about 500 to 600 in the year 1956 -57. Shri Gupta wanted us to 
believe that in connection with the transfer of Shri Salyed Ally he had satisfled 
himself that it was for good reasons and therefore he did not take up the dispute . 
But in this connection only his cross -examination has to be read and it is evident 
that he has no personal knowledge in the matter nor he himself has made any 
independent inquiry and that he simply relied on what the management gave him 
to understand . He further admits that they take up the dispute of the members 
only and in the case of non -members they would do so if approached for the pur 
pose. Shri Salyed Ally having left this Union and formed a rival union , he could 
hardly be expected to approach this Union for taking up his cause . Really 
speaking it was not necessary for him to do 90 , when a large majority of the 
"Workers supported his cause Irrespective of this union with a membership of only 
about 500 to 600 out of 1700 or 1800 workers. On behalf of the workmen there 
is the evidence of Shri A . Das Gupta who is in the employment of the Company 
as charge -hand - electrician at Bharveli since 1954 . According to him , the new 
Union of which he is the vice - Pres. dent and Saiyed Ally the Secretary had got the 
membership of about 711 workers and that now the membership has gone up to 
more than 1100 . Much was made of the registration of the new Union in May 
1957 but a Union is not formed in a day and its formation is a gradual process 
which takes some time. There is nothing wrong if this witness stated in his 
examination - in -chief that their Union was formed in June 1956 and registered 
about the end of 1956 or in 1957, though he was not quite sure of the exact date 
of registration until he was shown the letter from the Registrar in his cross 
examination . One outstanding fact does present itself from the developments 
which will be referred to infra that this formation of the Union must have started 
sometime before the management in the guise of an order of transfer tried to 
remove Shri Sayied All from the field of trade union activities and thus prevent 
any such new Union from gaining ground as against the old union which the 
company recognized and with which it used to bargain . The workmen s witness 
Shri Murari Lal who was the President of the Old Union from 1950 to 1955 and 
who is now the Joint Secretary of the new Union deposes that all the workers 
had protested against the transfer of Shri Syald Ali and that their Union had 
passed a resolution for this purpose . On the point of the workmen s protest 
against the order of transfer there is also the evidence of the workers witness 
Shri Daşu Peter . Lastly Shri Salyed Ali in his evidence has spoken in proof of 
the variors documents on record indicating that his dispute had been taken up 
by other workers . In my opinion there is enough material to establish that this 
1s not merely an individual dispute which has been referred by Government for 
adjudication but it is a collective dispute initiated and espoused by a large num 
ber of workmen who still continue to support the same. 


10 . The real question for our consideration in the present dispute is whether 
the order of transfer under which Shri Saiyed Ally was asked to go to Tirodi was 
a bona fide order of transfer arising in the normal course of administrative 
exigencies and, if so , there has been any disobedience on the part of Shri Saiyed 
Ally in not complying with this order so as to justify the management s action 
of terminating his services on 14th January , 1957. Shri Nargolkar for the work 
men challenged the management s right of transfer itself and according to him 
in the absence of a contract expressed or implied , there is no such inherent right 
vested in the management to transfer an employee from one undertaking to 
another . It is true that the Standing Orders of the Company do not specifeally 
provide for any transfer nor is it the Company s case that transfer formed Dart 
of contract expressed or implied. There are however number of authorities which 
go to support the employer s right to transfer - - 111de 1950 I LLJ 192 , 1954 I. LLJ 
be , 1954 LAC 903 . 1954 I. LLJ 659, 1954 II . LLJ 355, 1956 I, LLJ 591 , and 
1958 1. LLJ 377 . The point needs no further discussion and I have not been 
satisfied why I should take a contrary view . The right of transfer by an em 
ployer in the normal course of business has always been recognized and if really 
in the present case the necessity for the transfer of the concerned workman Shri 
Salyed Al arose for good reasons and if with no justifcation be flouted or refused 
to carry out any such order , it should ordinarily be open to the management to 
take action against him . 


11. In the present case however the position is entirely different. Here was 
an active trade union worker who was just sought to be victimised because of 
his trade union activities . There can be no direct evidence on the point of vict 


Suc. 8 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959/ CHAITRA 21, 1881 

895 
- = = = - = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = 
mization but it has to be gathered from the facts and circumstances of a case , 
In the case before us the facts and circumstances are so clear and eloquent as to 
speak for themselves and leave no room for any doubt that in the guise of a so 
called order of transfer the management tried to remove Shri Saiyed Ali to 
another place from the field of his trade union activities at Balaghat mine where 
he was working as Welder since his appointment in the year 1953. It has been 
said that once before also he was transferred to Dongri Buzurg in 1954 but this 
was not a regular transfer. He was just sent there for a special work in the 
Company s Van along with welding apparatus from Balaghat and returned to 
Balaghat soon after the completion of the work in question . This was the only 
first order of regular transfer from Balaghat since he joined in 1953 but even 
after the order of transfer it never happened that he openly flouted the same. 
In his the then circumstances he was constralned to make representations and 
place his own difficulties due to one reason or the other. But the management 
paying no heed insisted on his going to Tirodi on transfer and eventually termi 
nated his services in a wrongful manner without making any inquiry into the 
charge levelled against him . 


12 . It is a common ground that Shri Saiyed Ali was an active trade union 
wutker right from the beginning and continued to work as such even after he left 
the old union in November , 1955 . It could not be denied that he was popular 
amongst the workmen and about the latter part of the year 1956 he was actively 
engaged in forming a new Union which was uitimately registered in May , 1957. 
He was also a member of the Works Committee but since some time about or 
after the middle of 1956 owing to the differences with the employers the Works 
Committee meetings were not attended by the workers representatives and it 
was in the end dissolved on 15th October , 1956 . The new Works Committee was 
to be elected on 25th October, 1956 and the nominations for the purpose were to 
be filed before 22nd October, 1956 . It was anticipated on all hands that the some 
representatives of the workmen including Shri Saiyed Ali would be returned as 
members under the fresh election and the same dead -lock would continue . It 
was just about this time that the correspondence started all of a sudden as if 
there was an urgent need of an experienced Welder at Tirodi Group of Mines . 
On 20th October , 1958 the Mine Manager , Tirodi asked for an additional Welder 
and the Agent and General Manager immediately on 22nd October , 1956 wrote 
to the Mine Manager , Balaghat to spare Shri Salyed Ali for being transferred to 
Tirodi. At this juncture the two Mine Managers at Tirodi and Balaghat address 
ed letters to each other dated 23rd October, 1956 and 24th October, 1956, which 
crossed , one asking to spare immediately Shri Saiyed Ali and the other inquiring 
when Shri Saiyed Ali should report at Tirodi . In this connection we have to 
rely only on the oral testimony of the Mine Managers concerned and if really 
there was some important work to be carried out at Tirodi Group of Mines 
requiring an experienced Welder , there would be some documentary evidence in 
that respect but none is forthcoming . The Managers examined are part and 
parcel of the management itself and whatever may be their position , their testi 
mony has to judged with great caution especially when they are the interested 
parties in carrying out the policy of the management. The Agent and General 
Manager though cited as a witness has not preferred to come in the witness box 
and we have to depend solely on the depositions of the two Managers of Tirodi 
Group of Mines and Balaghat Mine respectively Mr. Stead and Mr. Trott. We do 
not find any previous correspondence regarding the work going on at Tirodl Mine 
and we fait to see how all of a sudden an additional Welder became necessary 
there and how the Agent and General Manager at once selected Shri Saiyed Ali 
for this purpose. Mr. Trott the Mine Manager at Balaghat admits in his deposl 
tion that before the order of transfer no inquiry was made by the Head Office as 
to who was a competent and Senior Welder and he just avades the point by saying 
that this was already known. It is alleged that Shri Saiyed Ali was an experience 
ed man and that there was not enough work for him at Balaghat I but in this 
connection too no previous inquiry seems to have been made from the Mine 
Manager at Balaghat as to the quantum of work there and whether any Welder 
and who could be spared for the work at Tirodi, Now the Management comes 
forward with all praises regarding the competency of Shri Saiyed Ali as an 
experienced Welder but on the point of his previous record which need not be 
stated here in details we may just refer to the parties written statements . There 
was a series of actions taken against him in the past which according to Shri 
Saiyed Ali were promoted with an ulterior motive because of his trade union 
activities. The management has tried to justify the same in its written state 
ment and has produced the relevant papers in this connection . Whatever it may 
be, it really acrordinn to the managrment Shri Saiyed Ali had such bad past 
record , he would hardly in the normal circumstances be considered as a reliable 
person to be sent for an alleged important work and urgent at Tirodi however 


- 


- 


- 


- 


S 


896 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959/ CIIAIIRA 91. 1881 [PART 1] 
-- - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - 
competent he may be. There were other senior Welders and yet_ if he was 
chosen for this purpose , in the circumstances of the case the only inference that 
we can draw is that he was anyhow to be removed to some other place . Shri 
Saiyed Ali s leadership at Balaghat was responsible for coming into existence 
of a second union and the re -election of Shri Saiyed Ali in the Works Committee 
was almost certain . The previous Works Committee could not function owing to 
disagreement between the representatives of the labour and the management and 
if in the fresh election Shri Saiyed Ali was returned , the situation would continue 
to remain the same. Though the election for the Works Committee was original 
ly Axed on 25th October, 1958, on the alleged technical ground it was postponed 
and according to the workmen s case this was deliberately done with a view to 
prevent Shri Saiyed AL from being re- elected . Whether the reason for the 
postponement of the election was right or wrong, even in the fresh election Shri 
Saiycd Ali was chosen as a Member and as in the meantime he had already been 
served with a transfer order dated 7th November , 1956 , the workman protested 
against his transfer and declared that unless and until the transfer was cancelled 
none of the members of the new Works Committee would be attending the mect 
ings thereof in protest. In fact the meetings of this newly elected Works Com 
mittee could not take place because of the non -participation of the workers 
representatives in protest against the action taken by the management against 
Shri Saiyed Ali. 


13 . It has been alleged that first on 31st October, 1956 Shri Saiyed Ali was 
verbally informed regarding his transfer and later when he returned from leave 
he was served with a tranfer order dated 7th November, 1956 calling upon him 
to report at Tirodi on 8th November , 1956 . Thereafter Shri Saiyed Ali made 
several representations placing his difficulties owing to his wife s illness , his 
sister s illness and his own illness but the management all throughout went 
on insisting that he should proceed on transfer to Tirodi. If his wife was ill, it 
was suggested that he should take the medical treatment of the company s Doctor 
and if in support of his illness he brought a medical certificate , it was alleged 
that the company would accept no medical certificate except from its own 
Medical Officer . Much was made of the fact that if Shri Saiyed Ali had any 
difficulty he should have first carried out the order of transfer and then the 
Mines Manager at the Tirodi would have considered his case and given such 
facilities as he desired for joining time In the first place if the Mines Manager 
at Tirodi was prepared on consideration of the representations of Shri Saiyed 
Ali to give him the necessary facilities, there is no reason why the same facilities 
should not be extended by the Minę Manager at Balaghat. Any such plea itself 
indicates that there was no urgent necessity of a Welder at Tirodi and the main 
purpose behind was just to see that any how Shri Saiyed Ali left the Balaghat 
Mine. About the middle of December 1956 r . Edwards the Mine Manager at 
Balaghat returned from leave and took charge from Mr. Trott . About this time 
the election of the new Works Committee had already taken place on 13th 
December 1956 and Shri Saiyed Ali had been elected as one of its members . In 
prosecution of the policy behind his transfer Mr. Edwards again gave him a 
final notice on 29th December, 1956 to join and report at Tirodi by 3rd January 
1957 . Shri Saiyed Ali could not comply with the orders due to his sister s illness 
and asked for leave but it was not sanctioned and on 7th January 1957 he was 
charge- sheeted as under ; ( Ex . C - 34 ) 


" On 29th December 1956 you were given a final notice and informed to 

proceed immediately to South Tirodi Mine as alrealy instructed 
and report for duty to the Mines Manager , Tirodi Group of Mines 

by 3rd January 1957 , 
This you have failed to do, you should therefore show cause in writing 

within 24 hours of receipt of this charge- sheet why action should 
not be taken against you under section 10 ( a ) of the Company s 
Standing Orders i. e . disobedience of a lawful and reasonable order 

of a superior ." 
Shri Saiyed Ali gave his reply to the charge - sheet as per Ex , C - 35 . Without 
making any further inquiry the Mine Manager wrote the letter No. 6 , 216 dated 
9th January 1957 -vide Ex. C - 38 which states inter alia that: 
" . . . . . You have therefore failed to carry out my instructions of 29th Decem 

ber 1956 , and are guilty of disobedience of a reasonable order of a 

superior under Standing Orders section 10 ( a ) . 
However , I am in the circumstances prepared to extend the date of your 

reporting to the Mines Manager Tirodi Group of Mines, who is in 
urgent need of a Welder , until 8 a . m , on the morning of Friday 


Sec . 9 (ii)] THE GAZE ITE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959/CHAITRA 21, 1881 

897 
= = = - -- - = 

= = - - - 
January 11th 1957. If you fail to do this you will be deemed to have 

deserted your post, and will be treated as a discharged worker ." 
To this Shri Saiyed Ali gave his reply ( Ex . C - 37 ) dated 10th January 1957 but 
the Mine Manager wrote the letter No. 6 / 328 dated 14th January 1957 (Ex . C - 40 ) 
stating : 
" With reference to the last paragraph of my findings, letter No. 6 /216 of 9th 

January 1957, as you have failed to carry out the orders to join 
duty at Tirodi on 11th January 1957, I hereby confirm that you 
are discharged from employment under section 101a ) of the Com 

pany s Standing Orders , 
You should arrange to vacate the Company s quarters lorthwith ." 
14 . Section 10 ( a ) of the Company s Standing Orders pertains to an item of 
misconduct l 1 disobedience of the lawful and reasonable order of a superior 
Evidently thus under the said letter dated 14th January 1957 Shri Saiycd Ali 
was discharged from service for an alleged misconduct without making any 
inquiry into the charge levelled against him or about the representations made 
by him . The Mine Manager Mr. Edwards now in his deposition goes to the 
extent of saying that the discharge order dated 14th January 1957 was not passed 
in pursuance of the charge sheet given by him on 7th January 1957 but this is 
entirely untrue. On the contrary the correspondence on record indicates that 
the charge against Shri Saiyed Ali was assumed to be true without making 
any inquiry . Mr. Edwards further admits in his deposition that at the time of 
passing the discharge order he did not refer to the previous service record of 
Shri Saiyed Ali or to the correspondence in connection with his transfer apart 
from his letter dated 9th January 1957. Under the mandatory provisions of the 
Standing Orders of the Company an inquiry was incumbent and apart from any 
consideration , the order of termination in the absence of any inquiry is on the 
face of it unjustified and illegal. The order itself purports to have been made 
under the Standing Orders and it was absolutely obligatory on the part of the 
management to comply with the requirements of the Standing Orders before 
terminating the services of Shri Saiyed Ali on an alleged charge of misconduct. 
Though the word used is discharge it is an order under the Standing Orders 
10 ( a ) relating to misconduct. For an ordinary discharge there is a separate 
Standing Order No. 9 . 1 the alleged discharge was made under the Standing 
Order 10 ( a ) for an alleged act of misconduct , the use of word discharge makes 
no difference It is a punitive discharge amounting to a dismissal for an alleged 
inisconduct. In such a case before taking the action an inquiry out to have 
been inade into the charge and the worker should have been given an opportunity 
to make defence to show how under the circumstances alleged by him it became 
impossible for him to carry out the order. In the case of Patna Electric Supply 
Company Ltd , - 1958 I LLJ. 257 and at 259 their Lordships of the Supreme 
Court of India has made a distinction between what is called a discharge 
simpliciter and a punitive discharge. It was there held thut " the discharge of 
the respondents was a discharge simpliciter in exercise of the rights of the 
employer under CI 14 ( a ) of the standing orders and was not a punitive discharge 
under Ci. 17 (viii ) thereof and if it was merely a discharge simpliciter then , no 
objection could be taken to the same and the appellant would be well within 
Its rights to do so , provided , however , that it was not arbitrary or 
capricious but was bona fide " In the present case apart from want of 
bona fides , the order made is not a discharge simpliciter in exercise of the 
rigths of employer under the standing orders No. 9 but it is a punitive discharge 
for an alleged misconduct falling under the standing order No. 10 ( a ) and bcfore 
inflcting any such punishment, an inquiry according to the standing orders was 
absolutely necessary . It was concoded even by the Company s representative 
that the termination of service we taken by way of disciplinary action following 
the misconduct with which Shri Saived Ali was charged . In the same Vol, at 
page 280 has been reported the case of Indian Iron and Steel Company, Ltd , and 
at page 270 their Lordships of the Supreme Court have observed : " Undoubtedly 
the management of a concern has power to direct its own internal administration 
and discipline ; but the power is not unlimited and when a dispute arises , indus 
trial tribunals have been given the power to see whether the termination of 
service of a workman is justified and to give appropriate relict ." 


15 . Thus in the circumstances of the case it is clear that the transfer order 
was made with an ulterior motive in order to remove Shri Saiyed Ali from the 
field ot his trade union activities and eventually his services have been dispensed 
with in a wrongful and unjustified manner on 14th January 1957. We are not 
concerned with the policies of the two Unions or with the point as to which 
Union the management should recognize . The fact, however , remains that Shri 


898 


THE GALETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21. 1881 


[ PART II 


Saiyed Ali and his followers wanted to follow their own policy , namely not to 
rest satisfied merely with negotiations with the management as the other Union 
used to do but even to carry the matter further to Government and labour 
authorities if and when found necessary . We are not required to go into the 
correctness or otherwise of the views held by his party but the fact remains 
that he was an active trade union worker and the transfer came at such a time 
that it is difficult for us to accept in the absence of cogent and reliable evidence 
that it was a genuine order of transfer arising from the normal course of exigen 
cies of the business. If really it was a bona fide Order of transfer which the 
worker concerned deliberately flouted and refused to carry out, then certainly 
the management could conceivably take action for disobedience of a lawful and 
reasonable order of a superior even though the concerned worker happened to 
be a trade union worker . But in the present case the position as shown above 
was entirely different. Shri Saiyed Ali in his deposition speaks about his trade 
union activities and states how when the management could find no execuse to 
remove him , he was given an order of transfer which at no time he declined 
to carry out. There were other Senior Welders in the employment of the com 
pany and it is in evidence of Shri Saiyed Ali as well as Shri Michael Louis , 
another Welder Helper that there was enough work at Balaghat Minę. It may 
be noted that apart from a vague suggestion , there is documentary evidence 
forthcoming to establish the fact that the work at Balaghat had gone down so as 
to spare one Electric Welder for Tirodi Mines . No urgent necessity for a Welder 
at Tirodi has been satisfactorily established and the so - called appointment of 
one Shri Lazarus a long after i. e . the dismissal of Shri Saiyed Ali indicates that 
this was done just to lend colour to the management s story regarding Shri 
Saiyed Ali s transfer . Shri Lazarus has not been examined and we do not know 
how his appointment took place and what work he is doing at Tirodi. Apart 
from these facts Shri Saiyed Ali had his own difficulties in going on transfer to 
Tirodi and these difficulties he placed for consideration of the management but 
without giving any consideration to the same the Manager of the Balaghat Mine 
proceeded on the assumption that he disobeyed the order of transfer . 

18 . In my opinion the transfer of Shri Saiyed Ali as well as his subsequent 
termination of service are unjustified and he is entitled to the normal relief of 
reinstatement with full back wages . On behalf of the management it was urged 
that in no case he should be reinstated and if at all he may be allowed compensa 
tion in lieu thereof. There was a suggestion in the course of the hearing for this 
purpose but the management insisted on fighting the matter on merits and 
declined to pay anything by way of compensation to the workman concerned . 
Now that the worker succeeds on merits , it does not lie in the mouth of the 
management to say that he should get only compensation and not the normal 
right of reinstatement. In the case of East India Industries (Madras) , Limited 
1955 II LIJ 470 - decided by the Madras High Court it has been held : "When 
a dismissed workman challenges the validity of the dismissal and the matter is 
adjudicated upon by an industrial tribunal and the tribunal arrives at a con 
clusion that the dismissal was not valid , the position is that the workman must 
be deemed never to have been dismissed at all and continues in service . It 
might be that an ordinary court of law would only award damages to the dis 
missed workman . But nothing prevents the tribunal from giving the alternative 
relief of declaration that the dismissal was wrongful and the consequential relief 
that he be continued in service . The argument on behalf of an employer usually 
is that he cannot be compelled to employ anyone against his will. But the proper 
way of looking at it is that an employer is not allowed to terminate the services 
of a workman except in a lawful manner . " 

17. In the result I direct that Shri Saiyed Ali shall be reinstated on his 
original post with full back wages and other benefits . The management shall 
also pay Rs. 200 / - by way of costs to the workman . 

(Sd.) P , D . VYAS , 

Judge, 
Central Government Labour Court Nagpur. 

[No . LR. II/57- 2 ( 11) / 57.] 
- - - - - - - 

- - - - - - 

- - 
MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 2nd April 1959 
$ . 0 . 784 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Nagpur at Bombay, in the industrial dispute between the 


-- 


- 


Stc . 8 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 

- 

= = = = 


899 

= 


employers in relation to Zawar Mines , Udaipur of M / s . Metal Corporation of India , 
Limited and their workmen in the matter of an industrial dispute regarding wage 
structure and bonus for the year 1956 - 57. 


BEFORE SHRI P . D . VYAS , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL . 

NAGPUR AT BOMBAY , 
REFERENCE (CGIT) NO. 14 of 1958 

AN ADJUDICATION BETWEEN 
The Employers in relation to Zawar Mines , Udaipur of M / s . Metal Corporation of 

India , Limited , Udaipur , 


AND 
Their Workmen . 
. In the matter of an industrial dispute re. wage structure and bonus for the 

year 1956 -57 . 


APPEARANCES: 
Dr. Anand Prakash , Bar - at-Law , assisted by Shri S . P , Jaura - for the Manage 

ment. 
Shri Bachubhai Sukla , Honorary Member of the Sangh with Sarva hri Durgawat , 

President, and B . Choudhury , General Secretary of the Sangh - - for the Work 
men . 


AWARD 
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947, the Central Government was pleased to 
refer an industrial dispute existing between the employers in relation to Zawar 
Mines , Udalpur of M / s . Metal Corporation of India , Limited , and their workmen 
for adjudication by the Government Order - LRII / 62 ( 7 ) / 58 , dated 16th August , 
1958. The dispute relates to the matters specifed in the schedule annexed to the 
Baid order , 


THE SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) What should be the wage structure of various categories of employees in 

Mines . 
(2 ) Whether any bonus should be given for the year 1956 -57 and if so , at 

what rate , 
2 . On the usual notices being issued , the President, Zawar Mines Mazdoor Sangh , 
Udaipur has filed the statement of claims on behalf of the workmen and the 
Director, Managing Agents , for the Metal Corporation of India Limited, has Aled 
the written statement on behalf of the management 

3 . The case on behalf of the workmen is that the Company is a highly prosperous 
concern employing in its mine at Zawar in Udalpur about 1209 workmen . Besides 
this mine the Company has got a factory in Bihar. The Zawar Mine at Udaipur 
has for its products zinc, lead and silver ores which are further processed in the 
Ore Dressing plant to produce lead and zinc concentrates and then sent for 
smelting . The factory in Dhanbad ( Bihar ) does the work of ( a ) smelting of lead 
and reflning, and ( b ) producing silver as by - product. As the factory at Dhanbad 
is not in a position to undertake smelting of zinc concentrates, that is done from 
Japan on the toll basis but the steps are being taken to start the zinc smelting 
plant by the Company itself with the aid and subsidy of the Government of India 
and the Government of Rajasthan . The importance of this industry and its place 
in national economy can be well appreciated from the fact that a considerable 
portion of foreign exchange is being savęd due to this company s producing a 


900 


TIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA ? ] 1881 


Part II 


- 


- 


part of our country s total need for two very important metals viz . Zinc and lead 
Though the company is in a prosperous and financially stable state , its workmen 
are underpaid and the cxisting minimum is as low as Rs. 1 / 4 / - per day, e ., 
Rs. 32 / 8 / - for inale workers and As. - / 14 / - per day i. e . Rs. 22 / 12 / - for female 
workers per month of 26 working days . The Company pays no dearness allowance 
or any other allowances and practically the same wage structure continues since 
the inception of the Company in 1945 barring a few changes here and there , 
The prevailing rates of wages in this region are much higher than what the company 
pays and besides , the work in the minę being of a more strenuous and hazardous 
nature , the workers deserve better and higher wages . In fact the Company is 
not paying even the minimum wages though it is capable of paying fair wages . 
Since the company has done nothing in the matter of workmen s wages including 
the dearness allowance, the question of wage structure of various categories of 
employees is now the subject matter of the present reference. The reference also 
relates to bonus for the year 11156 - 57 and looking to the profits made by the 
Company during the year it should be directed to pay bonus equivalent to 5 
months wages . 


4 . The case on behalf of the Company is that it could not correctly be described 
as a highly prosperous concern looking to ity Balance sheets . It is true that the 
Company has a mine at Udaipur and a factory in Bihar but the concern is 
expecied to becoine a self - sufficient unit only when a zinc smelter of minimum 
economical capacity is installed in the rountry . The company has been sending 
zic concentrates, which is its major produce , to Japan for smelting on toll basis 
and the total expenditure comes to about Rs. 1 ,000 / - per ton of metal in addition 
to the cost of production of the zinc concentrates required . During the year 1957 - 58 
1ho Company produced lead and zinc metals to the extent of 16 — 17 per cent and 
6 - 7 per cent. respectively of the country s requirements and even after the deve 
lopments envisaged its production would hardly go above 30 % in the case 
of lead and 3516 in the case of zinc of the country s requirements . The company 
morcover has to face international competition in the matter of price . The company 
took over the lease of the mine from the Government of Mewar at the end of 
1945 at which time there were no Axed wages nor any grades of pay , the lowest 
paid getting eight annas per day . The rates were raised from time to time between 
1945 and 1952 and the minimum rates of wages fixed in 1952 in respect of stone 
cutting and stone breaking cmployments viz . Rs. 30 / - for males and Rs. 20 / - for 
female per month of 28 working days though not applicable to the mine, the 
workers we e given the benefit thereof . The said rates have since been raised to 
Rs. 1 - 4 - 0 for malls and Re. - / 14 / - for females. There has been revision of various 
giades from time to time and the payment of attendance bonus has further 
augmented the wages of the workers . The dispute regarding the wage 
structure has already been derided by Shri Mohan Lal Sukhadia the Chief Minister 
of Rajasthan The workinen have considerably benefitted under Shri Sukhadia s 
award and it is nit now open to them to reagitate the same question . The question 
of payment of D A , does not arise as the company has been paying a consolidated 
wage. The company has always been paying beyond its capacity and any further 
increase in the circumstances would not be justified . Unless there is a substantial 
improvement in the company s financial position , no question of revision of wage 
rates as fixed by the award of Shri Şukhadla arises. There has been no change 
of circumstances sincn thercafter to justify any agitation by the Union for the 
increase in wages The claim of the Union for bonus is equally untenable Arstly 
because the demand is belated and secondly there is no surfcient available surplus 
out of the profits in the year 1956 -57 to justify the payment thereof. 


5 . Demand No, 2 . - - Under this demand bonus equivalent to 5 months wages has 
been claimed on behalf of the workmen for the year 1956 -57. The Company has 
got three units consisting of Zawar Mine at Udaipur, Head Ofice at Calcutta and a 
factory at Tundu and in respect of all these units a common Balance sheet and 
profit and Loss Account is maintained . It appears that for the years 1956 and 
1957 a claim of 4 months wages as bonus had been advanced on behalf of 
the workmen of the Tundu Factory and this formed a subject-matter of reference 
along with other demands to the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar . It was reference 
No . 27 of 1957 and the said Tribunal gave an award dated 13th November 1958 
rejecting the workers demand on finding that there was not enough availabe 
surplus to grant any bonus. Though a question was then raised as to whether the 
three units should be considered together in view of the consolidated accounts 
maintained by the company , no definite Anding seems to have been given on the 
point nor were the calculations regularly made on the basis of the consolidated 
accounts in the usual manner according to the bonus formula laid down by the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal in the Bombay Mill Owner s case . This formula has 


SEC. $ ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 

9oI 
= - - - - - - - - - - 
since been recognised by the Supreme Court with approval in the Muir Mill s case 
and in the casc of the Baroda Borough Municipality - -vide 1955 I LLJ 1 and 1957 
I LLJ. 8 . Any such rejection of the claim by the Bihar Tribunal does not debar 
the claim now before us from being decided on merits . 


6 . It has not been disputed by the parties that in view of the consolidated 
Balance - sheet and Profit and Loss Account, all the units should be taken together 
for the purpose of bonus calculations. In the financial year ended 31st March 1957 
we And that the Company made a net profit of Rs 5 ,24 , 966 / - and on adding back 
therсto the items for depreciation charged , Donations, Loose Tools written off , 
alleged Ex - gratia payment of bonus for the year 1955 -56 payment of arrears , 
payment of suspendea increments and payment in regularization of grades, the 
Union in its statement Ex U - 27 arrives at a total gross profit of Rs. 15 ,51, 963 / -. 
The Management on the other hand in its statement Ex . M - 3 ? has added back 
only the items of depreciation provided and donations , so ihat the gross profit 
comes to Rs. 13 , 29 , 166 . The items for Loose Tools written off , the so - called er 
gratia payment of bonus, arrears of suspended increments , and amount paid for 
regularization of grades cannot be considered as legitimate items of normal trading 
expenditure during the year . The workers olaim for bonus is required to be 
judged on the trading results of a particular year as disclosed in the Balance Sheet 
and Profit and Loss Account of the Company . The said items paid during the year 
are in respect of the liabilities of the previous years which the Company was 
expected to discharge at the proper time. 


7 . Certain demands of the workmen were refered to the private arbitration of 
Shri Sukhadia , the Chief Minister of the Rajasthan State and it was under his 
award dated September 21, 1956 that all these payments were dirccled to be made. 
The demand No . 1 before him was regarding the suspended inci cinets lor the 
year 1953- 54 . The learned Arbitrator found that the company used to grant 
increments regularly to its staff , and this practice had become a part of their 
conditions of service . The company however suspended increments for the year 
1953 - 54 with the object to release the same after its financial position improved . 
The A hitrator felt satisfied that there was an improvement in the financial posi 
tion of the company and he directed the company to pay increments suspended . 
Similarly the second demand was for bonus and it was in terms described as 
Profit bonus for the years 1954 - 55 and 1955 - 56 . The Arbitrator directed that a 
bonus equivalent to 11 months wages be paid to the workers for these years . Not 
only the claim was made on the profit basis but the Arbitrator hiniself has written 
under his letter dated 8th December 1956 ( Ex . U - 20 ) in clarification of his airection 
for honus that it was in accordance with the principles laid down by the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal The management however with a vicw to pacify the share 
holders requested the Arbitrator to call it an ad hoc ex - gratia payment. Any such 
subsequent change in name cannot affect the rcal nature of the claim as awarded 
and there could be no doubt that under the award what was given was the proft 
bonus according to the principles laid down by the Labour Appellate Tribunal. 
This bonus having been paid in the year under reference has to be added back for 
the purposes of the present bonus calculations. The amount for regularization of 
grades is of the same type and the figure thereof along with other itmes is 
mentioned in the company s statement Ex , M -28 . The Union has thus rightly arrived 
at the figure of Rs. 15 ,51, 963 / - as total gross profit. 


8 . After having arrived at the total figure for gross profit, we are next required 
to determine the prior charges in order to find the available surplus if any . 
Taking up first depreciation , the company before the Bihar Tribunal claimed 
only the normal depreciation of Rs. 3 , 98 ,633 vide Ex . U - 23 . Now in its state 
ment Ex . M -39 the company has made a further claim of Rs. 87,855 for shift 
allowance . In this connection the company has not taken any consistent stand . 
In Ex , M34 we find a claim for depreciation , described as National Normal 
Depreciation and shift depreciation on notional basis to the tune of Rs. 10 ,02,866 . 
In Ex . M - 28 normal and multiple shift depreciation is stated to be Rs. 4 ,86 ,488 . 
In my opinion in the absence of satisfactory evidence and authenticative certi 
ficate , the Company is entitled only to Rs. 3 ,98,633 hy way of normal depreciation 
and deducting the same we arrive at a balance of Rs. 11 . 53 ,330 . I may add here 
that even if we allow Rs. 87 , 855 by way of shift depreciation the claim for 
bonus remains unaffected to the extent awarded infra . 

9 . The next prior charge is for Income-tax at 7 annas in the rupee together 
with provision for wealth - tax, viz . Rs. 4 , 94 ,519 and Rs. 23 ,000 respectively deduct 
ing which there remains a balance of Rs. 6 , 35,811 . Then the next prior charge 
is of return on paid up capital, viz . Rs. 2 , 92 ,000 and on deducting the same there 


- 


- 


- 


902 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA - 1, 1881 (PART I 

= = = = 
remains a balance of Rs . 3 , 43,811 . Calculating bonus equivalent to 44 months" 
wages on an average monthly wage bill of Rs. 72 ,750 (vide Ex . U - 28 ) which 
comes to Rs. 3 ,27, 375 and adding Income- tax rebate on the amount of bonus 
payable , the Union in its statement Ex . U -27 has shown a net residue of 
Rs. 1, 59 , 662. It may be remembered that this statement has been filled by the 
Union without going into the other disputed questions as per the note at its foot . 


10 . The Management in its written statement while denying the calim for 
bonus has vaguely alleged that there is no available surplus. Right up to the 
time of the hearing we were not supplied with definite fugures regarding the 
monthly wage bill as well as the other prior charges. According to the Manage 
ment Rs. 1 ,04 ,010 - 50 is the average monthly wage bill as prepared from the 
Account books but no details have been furnished . We find that before the 
Bihar Tribunal the monthly wage bill of all the threc units was alleged to 
be Rs. 1 ,25 ,000 and as observed in the award of the Bihar Tribunal the rehabili . 
tation charges were then claimed to the extent of Rs. 27 , 80 . 182 ( vide U - 23 and 
U - 24 ) without adducing any satisfactory evidence . Now the claim for rehabili 
tation for the year 1956 - 57 in respect of machinery and buildings is stated to be 
Rs. 10 , 55 , 169 less the depreciation - vide Ex . M -35 , pages 1, 2 and 3 . In an earlier 
statement Ex , M - 34, it is stated to be Rs. 1, 76 , 337. We have not been satisfied as to 
the correctness of the method by which the rehabilitation calculations have been 
made and as a matter of fact there is no immediate problem arising before the 
company on the point of rehabilitation and renovation . The machinery is almost 
new and recently purchased as I could see on local inspection as well as from 
the dates of purchase mentioned in the company s own statement. This is the 
case where any such rehabilitation consciousness on the part of the management 
should not go to defeat the workers claim for bonus and the usual depreciation 
charge as allowed should suffice the purpose . In its written statement the 
management has made no specific claim for rehabilitation and on behalf of 
labour reliance was placed on the case of Assam Co . Limited 1958 I. L . L . J. 770 
where their Lordships of the Supreme Court have held that a claim for rehabili . 
tation must be made in the written statement of the Management and set aside 
the order of the Labour Appellate Tribunal granting an extra one per cent as 
return on reserves to meet replacement and rehabilitation charges. When the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal laid down the bonus formula in the Bombay Mi] ! 
Owners case, the question of rehabilitation and renovation arose because the 
machineries and buildings of the pre -war time were so old that for the purposes 
of rehabilitation , in view of the exhorbitant post -war rise in prices , the normal 
depreciation would not suffice and an additional amount calculated on certain 
percentage basis and spread -over a number of years had to be provided for, 


11. In my opinion so far as the present case is concerned , taking the monthly 
wage bill as given viz . - - Rs. 1 ,04,010 by the company and also allowing the shift 
dcpreciation of Rs. 87 ,855, even then there would remain sufficient available sur 
plus to pay bonus equivalent to 24 months wages to the workmen concerned . 
The bonus calculation on U - 27 has been made at the rate of 41 months wages 
viz . - Rs. 3 , 27 ,375 which at 2 months wages on the monthly wage bill of Rs. 1 
lac and odd would come to about Rs. 2 , 50, 000 and odd and if the shift deprecia 
tion were also deducted , there would be corresponding decrease in the taxation 
on the balance remaining. We have also to make certain allowances in favour 
of the workmen regarding the correctness or otherwise of these figures given 
by the management. Taking all the factors into consideration I direct that the 
management shall pay bonus equivalent to 24 months wages to the workmen 
concerned for the year ending 31st March 1957 within two months from the 
date this award becomes enforceable . The employees dismissed during the year 
for misconduct causing financial loss to the Company will not be entitled to 
any bonus, 

12 . Demand No. 1 . - This is a general demand for introducing y suitable wage 
structure for various categories of employces in the Mine. It appears that in 
an earlier dispute between the workmen and the management on the failure of 
negotiations between them in respect of certain demands, Shri Mohan Lal Sukhadia 
the Chief Minister of Rajasthan State was appointed by the parties on 22nd 
August 1956 to arbitrate on the points in dispute . The arbitrator gave his 
award dated 21st September 1956 and the award was to take effect from 1st 
October 1956 . The demands referred to him related inter alia to D . A . and 
40 % rise in the wages of all the employees of the Zawar Mihes . In the award 
under the demand 4 for D . A . it has been directed that if there is any system 
of paying D . A . to employees of the Company, then the same should be made 
applicable to all without making distinction . As regards the 40 % increase , the 
award stands thus: 


Suc . $ ( ti )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAISRĄ 21 , 1881 - 903 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - 

SSG 
" The management has agreed that the extra increment which was an 

nounced by the company at the time of withdrawing the strike is 
a step to meet the demand of the workers for increase in wages , 
This extra increment amounts to Rs. 60 ,000 for all workers and is 
nearly 3 % increase in wages. On a close observation I find that the 
wages of the daily rated workers when compared with the monthly 
rated are too inadequate and I strongly feel that this category of 
workers are provided with a wage required for bare subsistence 
of himself and his family . Considering the financial position and 
other relative inatter, I think it fit to give a 4 % increase in addition 
to the 8 % increase already sanctioned by the company to all the 
daily rated workers, but this will not bar the workers for rc -agitating 
the issue of wages as soon as the financial position of the company 
is improved . I, therefore , direct accordingly ." 


In the result the monthly rated workmen got 8 % increase in wages whereas the 
daily rated workers got an increase of 12 % in their wages . There has not been 
any regular inquiry into the wage structure in the matter of wages and / or 
D . A . and apparently what has been given under the award looking to the demand 
as it stood , is some ad hoc interim relief, leaving it open to the workers to 
re - agitate the issue of wages as soon as the financial position of the company 
improved . No doubt, as observed by their Lordships of the Supreme Court 
in the case of Burn & Co ., Limited - 1957 I L . L . J . 226 , the fixing of wages is a 
long term plan and there should not be interference in fresh adjudication of the 
dispute for revision of the wage - scales in the absence of any change of circum 
stances alleged or proved. Their Lordships remarks are based on the ground 
that it would be contrary to the well established principles if a decision once 
rendered by a competent authority on a matter in issue between the parties after 
a full enquiry was pcrmitted to be re - agitated . In the present case there has 
been no such full enquiry vis - a - vis , the workers wage structure and if they 
have a genuine case of revision and if the financial position of the company so 
permits, there is nothing to prevent from devising a suitable wage structure for 
the various categories of employees in the mine. 


13 . The existing wage rates of the monthly rated and daily rated workmen 
can be seen in Exs. M - 3 and M - 4 . The Union has Aled several statements showing 
what the minimum requirements of the workers would be . The statement Ex . 
U - 5 is the minimum family budget of a family consisting of three consumption 
units as worked out in the Report of the Rajasthan Cotton Textile Labour 
Enquiry Committee in October 1956 and there Rs. 75 - 42 has been shown as the 
Ininimum wage. Ex . U - 6 refers to the minimum family budget of a family 
consisting of three consumption units according to thc market price of 1959 and 
the minimum requirements comes to Rs. 115 . 06 . Ex . U - 13 is the minimum family 
budget of a family of three consumption units of a textile mill worker in Rajas 
than which comes to Rs. 65 according to the retail prices prevailing in Jaipur 
in 1955 . The Union has Aled the comparative charts Exs. 1 . 8 and U -31) show 
ing the minimum consolidated wages in different industries and so far as Udaipur 
is concerned , we find Rs. 50 in the case of Government State Garage and other 
Government employees, whereas in the case of Zawar Mines unskilled male and 
female surface workers are paid respectively Rs. 32 . 50 and Rs. 22 . 75 , i. e . Rs. 1 - 4 
and 14 Annas per day and the unskilled underground workers are paid Rs. 35 . 75 
per month of 20 working days. Even in the company s Tundu factory in Bihar 
we find that the minimum wage is Rs. 52 against Rs. 32 . 50 in Zawar Mine vide 
Ex . U - 15 along with para , 10 of Ex. U - 12 . It is a common ground between the 
parties that there is no system of any DA, and what is being paid is only a 
consolidated wage which was in the beginning so low as 8 annas . Sometime 
when in 1952 the minimum wage was fixed in the industry of stone cutting 
and stone breaking the management proceeding on the same line fixed Rs. 30 
for males and Rs. 20 for females per month of 26 working days and these rates 
have since been raised to Rs. 1 - 4 for males and 14 annas for females per day 
as said above so as to amount to Rs. 32 / 50 and Rs. 22 / 75 per month of 26 working 
days. It is thus no gain - saying the fact that the existing wage structure in the 
mine is highly unsatisfactory and nceds a radical revision in an upward direction 
for the purposes of devising suitable rates of basic wages and D . A . 

14 . The main difficulty however is whether the workers demand has been 
made at the proper juncture and whether this is the opportune time to under 
take any such task of ravising the wage structure on a scientific basis . Shri 
Sukhadia while making his award in respect of a percentage increase gave 
some interim relief having felt that there was some improvement in the financial 
condition of the company leaving it open to the workers to further re-agitate 


45 


- 


- 


904 THE GAZET I E OF INDIT : APRIL 11, 1959 / CHAITRA 21, 1881 [ PART II 

— 
for revision if the financial position of the company appreciably improved . We 
have only to look into the Balance- sheets of the Company and it cannot be said 
that its financial position has so materially improved as to bear the burden of a 
regularly revised wage structure . No doubt its products consist of important 
metals of Zinc and Lead which to some extent meet the requirements of the 
country but at the same time the company has to depend on Japan for certain 
process . The Company is now negotiating for a loan as well as for installation 
of Zinc Smelter of minimum economical capacity in the country so that it would 
not have to approach Japan for stoelting purposes as is being done at present 
at huge cost. It is no use undertaking the question of wage structure in any 
piecemeal manner and once for all on a proper inquiry a suitable wage structure 
should be devised when the fnancial position of the company appreciably 
improves. 

15 . In the recent judgment of the Supreme Court of India in the case of 
Express Newspapers, Limited & Anr. their Lordships after discussing the con 
ccpts of living wage, fair wage and minimum wage have laid stress on the capa 
city of the industry to pay while stating the following principles ; 
( 1 ) that in the fixation of rates of wages which include within its com 

pass the fixation of scales of wages also , the capacity of the industry 
to pay is one of the essential circumstances to be taken into con . 
sideration except in cases of bare subsistence or minimum wago 
where the employer is bound to pay the same irrespective of such 

capacity ; 
( 2 ) that the capacity of the industıy to pay is to be considered on an 

industry - cum - region basis after taking a fair cross - section of the 

industry ; and 
( 3 ) that the proper measure for gauging the capacity of the industry to 

pay should take into acrount the plasticity of demand for the 
product , the possibility of tightening up the organisation 30 that 
the industry could pay higher wages without difficulty and the possi 
bility of Increase in the efficiency of the lowest paid workers result 
ing in increase in production considered in conjunction with the 
elasticity of demand for the product no doubt against the ultimate 
back - ground that the burden of the increased rate should not be 

such as to drive the employer out of business ." 
16 . In view of the present financial position of the company we may not 
undertake the task of regular revision of the wage structure on a scientific basis 
but at the same time it cannot be said that its financial position is such as ta 
permit the continuance of the existing low level of wages. The company is not 
paying even the minimum wage for which purpose the paying capacity is irrele 
vant. On behalf of the management reference was made to the proposal for 
minimum rates of wages in the Mica works industry and the representation 
which the employers made against the same vide Exs. M - 26 and M - 24 ( a ) . But 
the paragraph 7 of the said rep - eientation itself indicates that all Mica mining 
labour is of a casual nature and is mainly drawn from the agricultural classes 
who during the harvest season return to their fields and they work in the mine 
only during the non -agricultural periods. The Company s statement Ex . M - 18 
showing the comparative rates of wages in Udaipur division indicates that its 
monthly rated workers are not so better off as compared with those cngaged in 
other concerns in the region . In my opinion instead of disturbing the existing 
wage rates, the same should for the time be further supplemented by an addi 
tional payment in the shape of D . A . at a flat rate of Rs. 20 so that the lowest 
paid worker does not get less than Rs, 52 / 50 and no distinction should be made 
between male and female workers . This is entirely within the company s paying 
capacity and I thus direct that the existing wages of the workmon shall be further 
supplemented by an additional payment in the shape of D . A . at a flat rate of 
As, 20 so that the lowest paid workers, Wale or female do not receive less than 
Rs. 52 /50 per month of 26 working days with effect from the date of reference . 
The difference payable to the workers on this basis shall be paid within two 
months of the award becoming enforceable , 

( Sd.) P . D . VYAS , Judge . 
Dated : 26th March 1959. 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Nagpur at Bombay . 


[No. LRII / 62 ( 7 ) /58. ] 
K . D . HAJELA , Under Secy . 


sro , 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 11, 1959 / CIIAITRA 21, 1891 


905 


- 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 3rd April 1959 
S .O . 785. — The Central Government hereby: 
( a ) directs , in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Govern 

ment of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No. S . R . O . 3805 , dated the 26th December , 1955 and in modification 
of the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Infor 
mation and Broadcasting No. S . O . 484, dated the 21st February , 
1959 that the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors 

at Madras shall consist of 29 members with immediate effect ; and 
(b ) appoints the following persons as members of the Advisory Panel of 

the said Board of Madras with immediate effect in exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule ( 2 ) 

of rule 9 of thc Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules, 1958 : 
1 . Shri N . Venkata Rao. 
2 . Shri T . N . C . Srinivasa Varadacharya. 
3 . Shri S . K . Ahmed Meeran . 
4 . Dr. T . Lakshminarayana . 


[No. F . 11/ 4 / 59 -FC. ] 
V . P . PANDIT , Under Secy . 


PAINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVT. OF INDIA 


PRESS, 


