PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


1 759 


the following amendment in the Indian Police Service (Probation ) Rules , 1954 
namely : 

For rule 14 of the said Rulcs , the following rule shall be substituted , namely : 

" 14 . Travelling allowance . A probationer shall, in respect of a journey 
which he may be required to perform , be entitled to such travelling allowances 
as may be admissible to a member of the Service - - 

( i) on tour, if the journey is - - 

(a ) in connection with his training ; or 
( b ) for attendance at any cxamination during the period of probation ; 

and 
(ii ) on transfer, iſ the journey is for procecding to the station to which he 
is posted after the final Examination ." 

[No. 13 /5 /56 - AIS (III) .] 


S . R . O . 2390 , – In cxtrcise of the powers conlerred by suh - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 3 of the All India Services Act , 1951 (61 of 1951) , the Central Govern 
ment, after consultation with the Governments of the States concerned , hereby 
makes the following umcndment in the Indian Administrative Service ( Proba 
tion ) Rulcs , 1954 , namely : 

For rulc 14 of the said Rules, the following rule shall be substituted , 
namely : - , 

" 14 - TT02081777 filloranrr ..... A Probationer shall, in spect of a journey 
which he may be rigui. col to perform , bo cntitled to such travelling allowances 
as may be missible to a meinber of the Service 

( i) on tour, if the journey is — 

( a ) in connection with his training ; or 
(b ) for attendance at any cxamination during the pcriod of probation ; 

and 
( ii ) on transfer , if the journcy is for proceeding to thc station to which 
he is posted after the final Examination ." 

[No. 13 / 5 /56 -AIS ( III ). ] 
P . PRABHAKAR RAO , Dy . Secy . 


New Delhi -2 , the 16th October, 1956 
S . R . O . 2391, In exercise of the power s conferred by sections 17 and 27 of the 
Indian Arms Act , 1873 (XI of 1878 ) , tin Central Government hereby makes 
the following further amendment in the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, namely : 
In Schedule VIT to the said Rulcs, the entries relating to item ( 9 ) shall 
be omitted . 

[No. 15 / 15 /56 - Police - ( IV ) .] 
New Delhi- 2 , the 17ih October 1956 
S .R . O . 2392 . — In exercise of the powers concerred by section 17 of the Indian 
Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the fol 
lowing further amendment to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, namely : 

In items 5 and 6 of the entries in column 1 of the table subjoined to Schedule 
II of the said Rules , the following shall be added after the words land frontiers 
of India , namely : - - 
" and the districts of Sibsagar , Lakhimpur , and United Mikir and North 
Cachar Hills in Assam ." 

[ No. 29 / 10 / 56 -Police . IV : ] 
New Delhi- 2, the 20th October , 1956 
S . R . O . 2393. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Indian 
Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby exempts His Majesty 
the Emperor of Ethiopia and entourage of 21 members from the operation of 


1760 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1988 


[PART II - SEC , 3 


the prohibitions and directions contained in sections 6 , 10 and 13 - - 15 of the 
said Act, in respect of the arms and ammunition possessed by them , during the 
course of their forthcoming visit to this country . 

[No. 17 / 14 /56 - Police ( IV ) .] 
C . P . S . MENON , Under Secy . 


New Delhi- 2, the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2394 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 , section 17 , and 
section 27 of the Indian Arms Act, 1878 ( XI of 1878 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the Indian Arms Rules, 1951 
namely : 

In the Table in Schedule III to the said Rules 
After item ( 3 ) the following item shall be added , namely : 


Do. 


(4 ) Arms and ammunition specified in clausc 
(a ) ( ill ) ofrule 7 imported by foreign Con . 
sular Oficers in India . 


Such arms und ammunition shall not 
be transferred to anyone in India for 
consideration or otherwise . 


[No. F . 17 / 12 / 56 - PoliceIV . ] 
J. N . DHAMIJA , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi- 2, the 18th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2395 , - In pursuance of clause ( b ) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules , 1958 , 
the Central Government hereby appoints each of the officers specifed in column i 
of the Schedule hereto annexed to perform in the State of Patiala and East Pun 
jab States Union the functions of the Collector under the said Rules in respect of 
the area specifed against him in the entry in column 2 of the said Schedule . 

SCHEDULE 


Designation of the Officer ) 


Arca 


1. Tahsildar, Nalagarh 
2 . Tahsildar , Kandaghat . 


, 


Nalagarh Tahsil. 

(1) Kandaghat Tahsil ; and 
( 1) Chadiala , Amlala , Baroli, Karkaur, Igapur 

(Pragpur ), Sanoli , Ramgarh , Madhopur (Dera 
Bassis , Kuranwala and Janetpur Patwar Circles of 
Dera Bassi Qanungo circle in Rajpura Tahsil . 
Rajpura Tahsil [ excluding part under charge of 

Tahsildar Kendaghat at item 2 (it ) above) ; and 
(it) Rajpur Qanungo circle ( cxcluding Karanpur, Pur, 

Sandur, Bolar Kalan , Bhankar , Fatehpur Raj 
putan and Behal Patwar Circles ) in Patiala Tabsil . 


3 . Tahsildar, Rajpura 


. 


. 


. 


4 . Tahsildar , Sirhind 
5 . Tahsildar, Patiala 


. 


6 . Tahsildar , Nabha 
7 . Tahsildar, Sangrur 
8 . Tahsildar, Narwana 
9 . Tahsildar , Jind 
10 . Tahsildar, Dadri 


Sirhind Tahsii . 
Patiala Tahsil [ excluding part under charge of Tahsildar 

Rajpura at item 3 (it) above. ) 
Nabha Tahsil , 
Sangrur Tahsil. 
Narwana Tahsil. 
Jind Tahsil, 

( 1) Dadri Tahsil ; and 
(11) Bhagot and Slana Patwar Circles in Kanina 

Qanungo circle in Mahendargar Tahail. 


. 


PART IITSEC . 3) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1968 


1761 


. 


II. Tahsildar , Mahendragarh 
12 . Tahsildar, Nardaul . 
13 . Tahsildar, Kapurthala 
14 . Tahsildar , Phagware . 


. 
. 


. 


HHRH 


15 . Tahsildar, Faridkot . 
16 . Tahsildar , Bhatinda 
17 . Tahsildar , Mansa . 
18 . Tahsildar, Malerkotla . 


. 
. 


Mahendragarh Tahsil (excluding Patwar circles Bhaget 

and Siana ). 
Narnaul Tahsil. 
Kapurthala Tahsil (excluding Kapurthale No. 3 Qanungo 
circle ). 
(0) Phagwara Tahsil ; and . 
( it ) Kapurthala No. 3 Qanungo drcle in Kapurthala 

Tahsil . 
Faridkot Tahall, 

Bhatinda Tahsil, 
• Manga Tahsil. 
. (i) Malerkotla Tahsil ; and 
(1 ) Mahal Kalan Qanungo Circle ( excluding Kutba , 

Dadahur, Nihaluwal, Shebazpur, Johlan and Julal 

diwal Patwar circles in Barnala Tahsil.) 
(1) Barnala Tahsil (excluding area at item 18 (41) above ]; 
( ii ) Phul and Dayalpura Bhelka Qanungo Circles in 

District Bhatinda . 


19 . Tahsildar, Bernala 


and 


[No. 10 / 3 / 56 - IC .) 
S . R .O . 2396 . - In pursuance of clause (b ) of rule ( 2 ) of the Citizenship Rules, 
1956 , the Central Government hereby appoints each of the officers specified in 
column 2 of the Schedule hereto annexed to perform in the State of Assam the 
functions of the Collector under the said Rules in respect of the area specified 
against him in the corresponding entry in column 3 and comprised within the 
district mentioned in column 1 of the said Schedule . 

SCHEDULE 


Name of the district 


Designation of the Officer 


Area 


Lakhimpur 
Kamrup 
United Khesi & Jaintia Hills 


. 


Sub - Deputy Collector, Dibru - Dibrugarh East Circle. 

garh East Circle 
Sub- Deputy Collector, Kam - Kampur Circle 

pur Circle 
Second Extra Assistant Com - Shillong Sub - Division 

missioner and Senior Sub 

Deputy Collector, Shillong . 
Sub -Deputy Collector , Jowell Jowai Sub -Division 


(No. 10 / 3 / 56 - IC . ] 


S . R . O . 2897. - In pursuance of clause ( b ) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules, 1958 , 
the Central Government hereby appoints each of the officers specified in column 
1 of the Schedule hereto annexed to perform in the State of Orissa the functions 
of the Collector under the said Rules in respect of the area specified against him 
in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Schedule . 


SCHEDULE 


Designation of the Officer . 


Area 


District Rehabilitation Officer, Cuttack 
Additional Rehabilitation Officer, Cuttack . 
District Rehabilitation Officer, Purl . 
District Rohabilitation Officer, Bilaspore . 


Do. 


Cuttack District. 
Puri District. 
Balaspore District, 


1762 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1936 


[PART II — SEC. 3 


Officer - in -Charge, Elections, Ganjam . 
Officer -In - Charge, Elections , Sambalpur 
Officer - in - Charge , Elections , Mayurbhanj 
Officer - in -Charge , Elections, Dhenkanal . 
Officer - in - Charge , Elections, Keonjhar , . 
Officer - in -Charge, Elections, Kalahandi . . 
Officer - in -Charge , Elections, Sundargarh . 
Sub - Divisional Officer , Phulbani . 
Commandant , Charbatia Relief Camp, Cuttack 
Assistant Commandant , Charbatia Relief Camp, Cuttack 


Ganjam District. 
Sambalpur District. 
Mayurbhanj District . 
Dhenkanal District . 
Keconjhar District . 
Kalahandi District. 
Sundargarh District. 
Baudh -Phul-bani District . 
Charbatia Relief Camp. 
Charbatia Relief Camp. 


. 


[ NO , 10 / 3 /56 -( 11 )-IC. ] 
New Delhi-2, the 20th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2398 . - In pursuance of clause (b ) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules , 
1956 , the Central Government hereby appoints the officer specified in column 2 of 
the Schedule hereto annexed to perform in the State of Assam the functions of 
Collector under the said Rules in respect of the area specified against him in 
the corresponding entry in column 3 and comprised within the district mentioned 
in column 1 of the said Schedule. 


SCHEDULE 


Name of the District 


Designation of the Officer. 


Area , 


Cacher 


Additional District 
Magistrate, Cachar . 


Whole of the District 


[ No. 10/3 / 56 -IC .] 


- CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi-2, the 18th October 1958 
S . R . O . 2399. - In the Schedule annexed to the Notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No . 10 / 3 / 66 - IC , dated the 26th September , 
1956 , published at pages 1670 - 1873 of the Gazette of India , Part II - - Section 3 , 
dated the 6th October, 1956 , against the Cachar district, for the entry " R / R OM 
cer , Karimganj" in column 2 read " Assistant Relief and Rehabilitation Omcer, 
Karimganj." 

[No. 10 / 3 / 56 -1C .] 
New Delhi-2, the 22nd October 1956 
S .R . O . 2400 , - In the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Home Affairs , S . R . O . No. 1574 , published in the Gazette of India Extraodinary , 
Part II - Section 3 of the 7th July , 1956 (No. 204 ) , in column 2 of Form X of 
Schedule I to the Citizenship Rules , 1958 , for the words " Full name of applicant 
and address" read " Full name of minor and address" , 

[No. F . 2 / 27 / 56 - 1. ] 
FATEH SINGH , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhł- 2 , the 23rd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2401, - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 24 of the High 
Court Judges ( Conditions of Service ) Act, 1954 ( 28 of 1954 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby makes the following Rules, namely : 

1 . These Rules may be called the High Court Judges ( Part A States ) Travelling 
Allowance Rules , 1956 . 


PART II SEC . 3 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1956 


1763 


2 . ( 1) When a Judge travels on duty , he is entitled — 
( a ) when travelling by railway , to a reserved two-berth compartment of 

the highest class including air - conditioned , and if one such compart 
ment is not available then to a reserved four -bcrth compartment of 
the highest class (but excluding air - conditioned ) and the fares at 
lowest class rates actually paid for servants not exceeding two in 
number ; 


( b ) when travelling by a steamer service , to one reserved first - class cabin , 

if available , or to the fare actually paid for himsell , and the fares 
at lowest class rates actually paid to the steamer service for servants 
not excecding two in number subject to usual deductions on account 
of messing charges ; 


( c ) when travelling by a public air transport service , to the fare paid for 

himself and , if actually paid , the cost of transporting up to two 
maunds of luggage by rail at passenger rates , or steamer and the 
railway or steamer farcs of the lowest class for servants not ex 
ceeding two in number , and the expenditure actually incurred on 
the transport by road of servants or luggage upto a maximum of 8 
annas per mile of that part of the journey by road for which no 

allowance is claimed under clausę ( d ) of this sub - rule ; 
( d ) when travelling by road , to an allowance at the rate of Re. 1 per mile : 
Provided that , 
( 1) no such allowance shall be payable in respect of that portion of a 

journey by road for which a public air transport service provides 
its own transport and the fare for which journey is included in 

the air fare paid under clause ( c ) for the air journey ; 
( ii) no mileage allowance shall be admissible for journeys undertaken 

within a radius of five miles from the residence of the Judge or 
for a journey between such residence or temporary residence and 
the place of sitting of the High Court or of a Bench of the High 

Court; and 
( iii ) where daily allowance is admissible and is claimed for any day , no 

mileage allowance shall be admissible in addition in respect of any 
journey undertaken by road within a radius of five miles from 

the temporary residence of the Judge at the place of halt ; 
( iv ) no such allowance shall be payable in cases where the Judge uses 

transport provided at Government expense . 
( e ) to a daily allowance at the rate of Rs. 15 in respect of any period 

( including Sundays and other holidays) of halt on duty outside his 

headquarters : 
Provided that , 
( 1) when a Judge is required to perform functions outside his normal 

duties in localities away from his headquarters he may , subject to 
such conditions as the President may in each case determine, be 
granted daily allowance not exceeding Rs. 25 in respect of ordinary 
localities and daily allowance not exceeding Rs. 30 and transport 
charges not exceeding Rs. 10 per day in respect of specially ex 
pensive localities, like Bombay , Calcutta or any other locality so 
declared hereafter by the President; 


( ii ) when a Judge is required to perform similar functions, whether 

part- time or whole - time in his own headquarters, he shall not be 
paid any allowance or charges unless the special work involves 
extra expense in which case he may be granted such allowance 
not excecding Rs. 25 per day as the President may in each case 

determinc ; 
( iii) when a Judge is a State guest , the daily allowance shall be restricted 

to 25 per cent of the amount admissible or sanctioned ; 
( iv ) when a Judge proceeds on duty to the Andaman and Nicobar 

Islands, the period from the date of his departure from the main 
land to the date of his return to the mainland shall be treated as 
a period of halt on duty . 


1764 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


[ PART IISec . 3 


" 


( 1 ) to the expenditure , if any , actually incurred on the transport by 

passenger train or steamer at owner s risk of a motor car , and the 
tare at lowest class rate actually paid to a railway or steamer service 

in respect of one driver or cleaner for the car . 
( 2 ) If any persons ( other than servants ) accompany a Judge in a compart 
ment or cabin reserved for him under sub - rule ( 1 ) , fares shall be payable by 
him on their account, and the fares so paid shall, if full tariff rates have been 
paid by Government for the reserved accommodation , be credited to Government. 
(3 ) For the purposes of this rule 
( 1) all journeys to and from headquarters shall be deemed to commence 

and terminate at the Judge s residence at headquarters or , as the 
case may be, at an out- station ; 


( ii) a Judge shall be deemed to be travelling on duty when , during a 

vacation of the High Court , he proceeds from any place in India 
where he was spending the vacation for the purpose of doing duty 
in the High Court and returns to such place after completion of 
such duty . 


3 . ( 1 ) When a Government servant, appointed to be a Judge travels by 
railway to join his post, he may, at his option and in lieu of drawing travelling 
allowance under the ordinary rules governing a journey on transfer applicable 
to him , travel in a reserved compartment of the highest class, excluding air con 
ditioned 


( 2 ) A Government servant availing himself of this concession must pay to 
Government the fare which he would have pald if no accommodation had been 
reserved , and must, in addition , pay in cash to the station master of the station 
from wbich the journey commences, the fares for any members of his family 
accompanying him , whether they share him reserved accommodation or not. 
When Government pays full tarift rates for the accommodation , all such fares 
will be credited to Government. 


Explanation . For purposes of rules 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 a reserved compartment 

means a two-berthed compartment or a four-berthed compartment if 
a two -berthed compartment is not available in the train by which 

a Judge travels . 
4 . When a person not already in Government service is appointed to be a 
Judge , he may, when travelling by railway to join his post , travel in a reserved 
compartment of the highest class , excluding air conditioned and subject to the 
conditions prescribed in sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 . 
5 . When a Judge 

( a ) proceeds on , or returns from , leave or 
( b ) proceeds on , or returns from , vacation spent outside India , or 
( c ) retires from service, or 

(d ) proceeds to join another post after resigning office , 
he may when travelling in a railway , travel in a reserved compartment of the 
highest class , excluding air conditioned and subject to the conditions prescribed 
in sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 : 
Provided that in the case of a journey on retirement from service this 

entitlement will lapse if the journey is not completed within six 
months from the date of retirement. 


6 . When a Judge is transferred from one High Court to another , or from or 
to the place of the principal seat of the High Court to or from a place where a 
Bench of the High Court is permanently located he shall be entitled to the ex 
penditure actually incurred by him on his journey for the transport of 

( a ) when travelling by rail or by steamer 
( 1) the Judge himself , by a reserved compartment or cabin of the 

highest class, excluding air conditioned ; 
( V ) members of his family not travelling in the reserved compartment 

or cabin , in the highest class of accommomation excluding air 
conditioned ; 


PART II + Sxc . 3 ] 


THE GAZEUTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


TH 


1856 


1765 


Para utsac.»I 


( b ) when travelling by road 

(i) the Judge himself at the rate of Rs. 20 per mile ; 
( ii ) for every member of his family accompanying him upto a maximum 

of four members at the rate of 8 annas per mile : 


Provided that when any portion of the journey can be preformed by 

railway , the allowance claimed in respect of that portion shall 
not exceed the amount admissible had the Judge and the members 
of his family travelled on such portion by railway by the highest . 
class, excluding air - conditioned . 


( c ) when travelling by air , the Judge himself and the members of his 

family by a public air transport service ; 


( d ) personal servants , not exceeding four in number , by passenger train or 

steamer or by public road transport service at lowest class rates ; 


( e ) one motor car , by passenger train or steamer at owner s risk ; and 
( f) other personal effects, not exceeding the expenditure which would be 

incurred in the transport of 60 maunds of goods by road and by 
goods train or steamer , and the expenditure incurred in embarking 
and disembarking such personal effects . 


Explanation . For the purpose of this rule , members of a Judge s family means 

his wife , his children and his step - children , normally residing with 
and wholly dependent on him , 


7 . Where by reason of a change in the principal seat of the High Court a 
Judge changes his ordinary place of residence, he is entitled to the same allow 
ances as on transfer from one High Court to another. 


8. Repeal and Savings. — ( 1 ) The High Court Judges (Part A States ) Travelling 
Allowance Rules, 1950 , are hereby repealed . 


( 2 ) Notwithstanding such repeal, nothing contained in these rules shall have 
effect so as to give to a Judge who is serving as such at the commencement of 
these rules less favourable terms in respect of his travelling and daily allowances 
than those to which he would be entitled if these rules had not been made, 


[No. 11 /45 / 55 - Judl.I. ] 
M . GOPAL , MENON , Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 4th September 1956 


( To be substituted for the Notification bearing the same number & date ) 


S . R . O . 2402 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 1 ) of section 4 
of the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1947, and of all other powers enabling in this 
behalf, the Central Government hereby orders that the President of the Permanent 
Commission of the Representative Assembly Pondicherry shall receive a remunera 
tion of Rs. 200 / - per month , with effect from 26th August , 1965 in addition to the 
salary and allowances admissible to him as Member of the Representative 
Assembly , Pondicherry , vide this Ministry s Notification No , S . R . O . ( F . 10 - 103 / 56 
GP ) ( FJÁ 4 ( 1 ) ] dated the 2nd January , 1956 . 


[No, 597 / 56 - Eur. E . ) 
F . M . De MELLO KAMATH , Under Secy . 


1766 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1958 


[ PART II -- SEC. 3 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & CONSUMER INDUSTRIES 

New Delhi, the 19th October 1956 
S .R .O . 2403 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the Cotton Textiles (Control ) Order, 1948, 
namely : - - 


In the said Order , in sub - clause ( 3 ) of clause 12 , for the figures , letters 

and word " 31st August , 1956 " , the figures , letters and word “ 30th 
November , 1956" shall be substituted , 


[No. 9 ( 13 ) Tex. ( C ) /56 .] 
M . S . SADASIVAN , Under Secy . 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 


New Delhi, the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 3404 ,-- In pursuance of sub - regulations ( 2 ) and (3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standardy Institution 
hereby notifies that the Indjan Standards particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
Annexed , have been established during the period ist to 15 October 1956. 


THE SCHEDULE 


Brief particulars 


No. and title of tho 
Si. No , and title of the Indian Standards Indian Standard 
No. established 

or Standards , if 
any, superseded 
by the new In 

dian Standard 
(1) (2) 

(3) 


I 


IS :554 - 1955 Specification for Pipe 

Threads for Gas List Tubes and 
Screwed Fittings ( Tentative ) 


This standard covers dimensions 
and toleranccs of pipc thrcado 
of gas list tubes as well as 
those of cocks, valves and other 
fittings to be connected with 
gas 11st tubes where pressure 
tight joints are made on the 
thread ofnominal 1 sizes 10 6 in 
inclusive . Both raper 10 tapcr 
and parallel to taper joints 
are covered in this standard . 
(Price Rs. 2 /-). 


2 IS :640 - 1956 Specification for Ready 

Mixed Red Oxide Paint for Hes 
slan Colour Unspecificd ) 


This standard covers the requirc 
ments and the methods of test 
for the matcrial commercially 
known as ready mixed paint , 
red oxide , intended for paint 
ing tlic hessian backing of steet 
linoleum . (Price Ro. I / - ). 


E nur 


Mu 


Hr 


PART IT - Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


1767 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


_ 


(4) 


- - - - 


- - 


3 


IS : 870 - 1956 Specification for Ready 
Mixed Paint, Brushing, Finishing , 
Egg Shell Glogs , for Interior Use , 

to Indian Standard Colours 
No, JOI Sky Blue No . 219 Sage Green 
No. 216 Eau - de No. 275 Opaline 
Nil 

Green 
No. 217 Sea No. 281 Apple 
Green 

Green 


4 


IS :871 - 1956 Specification for Ready 
Mixed Paint, Brushing, Finishing , 
Egg Shell Gluss , for Interior Use , 
to Indian Standard Colours 


These three standards cover tlie 

requirements and the inethods 
of toyts for the material com 
mercially known as ready 
mixed paints , brushing, finish 
ing , egg shell gloss , for 
internal use , to Indian Stand 
ard Colours . These paints are 
used for protection and de 
curation of wood or steel work 
of interior of buildings and 
especially coaching stock where 
eggshell gloss finish and 
quick drying characteristics aro 
specifically required , and are 
normally applied as painting 
system over primer. (Price 
Re, 1 / - cucli ). 


Class A 
No , 218 Grass 

Green 


Class B 
No. 221 Brilliant 

green 


5 


IS : 872 - 1956 Specification for Ready 
Mixed Paint , Brushing , Finishing, 
Egg Shell Gloss , for Interior Usc , 
to Indian Standard Colours 
No. 412 Dark No. 413 Nut Brown 

Brown 


Copies of all these standards are available for sale with the Indian Standards Institution , 
19 . University Road , Delhi- 8 . 

LAL C . VERMAN , Director. 


[ No. MDC /11(4 ).) 
VIDYA PRAKASH , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEAVY INDUSTRIES 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2405 / IDRA / 18G / 12 / 86 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
18G of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 (65 of 1951) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the Cement 
Control Order , 1956, namely : 

For sub - clause ( 1) ( b ) of clause 3 of the said Order , the following shall be 
substituted, namely : 
" ( b ) the entire quantity of cement which may be produced by him during 

a period of 2 ycars from the date of commencement of this Order , 
except such quantities as may be mutually agreed upon from time 

to time between him and the Government;" 
This amendment shall be deemed to have taken effect from the first day of 
July 1956 . 

[No. Cem -8 (400 ) /56 .] 
G . RAMANATHAN , Dy. Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 15th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2406 / IDRA / 6 / 6 / Am . ( 2 ) . In the Order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S . R . O . 661 dated the 24th March 1955 , 
published in Part II Section 3 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary dated the 
25th March , 1955 , 
For " Shri A . R . Narasimhan , General Superintendent, Travancore 

Cochin Chemicals Ltd ., Udyogmandal P .O ., T . C . State ( 8 . India )." 


1768 


THE GAZELTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1966 


( PART II — SEC. 3 


Read " Shri A , R . Narasimhan , Cork Manager, Hindustan Insecticides, 
Nazatgarh Road , New Delhi." 

[No. 5 ( 21 ) IA (GB ) / 56 . ) 
R . N . KAPUR , Under Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 23rd October 1956 
S .R . O . 2407 / ESS. COMM / IRON & STEEL - 18 ( 1 ) & 27 ( I) /AM (3 ) (Corr.) . -- In 
the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Heavy Industries , 
No, IS ( A ) - 2 ( 172 ) /56, dated the 24th September 1956, published as S . R .O . No. 
2207 / ESS .COMM / IRON & STEEL - 15 ( 1 ) & 27 ( I) / AM ( 3 ), in the Gazette of India .. 
Part II — Section 3 , dated the 29th September 1956 , 
For the words " 1st August 1956" occurring in para 2 of the Conditions for 
Sale , I -General, read “ 29th September , 1956 . " 

[No. IS ( A ) -2 ( 172 ) / 56 ,1 
P . S . V . RAGHAVAN , Under Secy , 


b) Boardra , establihousing 
near und 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 

New Delhi, the 16th October 1956 
S . R .O . 2408 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 52 Agricultural 
Produce (Development and Warehousing ) Corporations Act , 1956 ( 28 of 1956 ) , 
the Central Government hereby makes the following rules : 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 
1 . Short title. These rules may be called the Agricultural Produce ( Develop 
ment & Warehousing ) Corporations Rules, 1956 . 
2 . Definitions.-- In these rules , unless the context otherwise requires — 
( a ) " Act" means the Agricultural Produce (Development & Warehousing ) 

Corporations Act , 1956 ; 
( b ) " Board ” means the National Co - operative Development and Warehousing. 

Board , established under section 3 of the Act ; 
( c ) " Central Warehousing Corporation " means the Central Warehousing 

Corporation , established under section 17 of the Act ; 
(d ) " Chairman" means the Chairman of the Board ; 
( e ) " Executive Committee" means the Executive Committee of the Board 

or of the Central Warehousing Corporation , as the case may be ; 
( f) " Form " means a form appended to these rules ; 
( 8 ) " Member " means a member of the Board ; 
( h ) " Secretary " means the Secretary of the Board ; 
(1) " Section " means a section of the Act; 
(1 ) " Vice -Chairman " means the Vice - Chairman of the Board . 

CHAPTER II 

THE BOARD 
3 . Representatives of the Central Government on the Board . — The Central 
Government shall nominate the following persons as its representatives on the 
Board under clause ( i ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 3 : 

( i) The Minister for Food and Agriculture, Central Government. 
(ii ) The Secretary , Ministry of Food and Agriculture , Government of 

India . 
( ili) The Joint Secretary in charge of Co -operation in the Ministry of 

Food and Agriculture, Government of India , 
( iv ) The Financial Adviser to the Ministry of Food & Agriculture , 
(V ) A representative of the Ministry of Finance ( Economic Affairs Depart . . 

ment) . 
(vi) A representative of the Ministry of Production . 


PABT II SEC . 31 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 27, 1958 


1769 


( vii ) A representative of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry . 
(viit ) A representative of the Ministry of Transport. 
(ix ) A representative of the Railway Board , 
(x ) A representative of the Planning Commission 


4 . Chairman and Vice - Chairman . The Central Government shall nominate 
the Chairman and Vice - Chairman from among the members of the Board . 


5 . Term of oice of members. Every member of the Board other than an ex 
officio member shall hold office for a period of three years from the date of his 
nomination as such member under sub - section ( 2 ) of section 3 . 

6 . Fulling in casual vacancy of a non - official member, - ( 1 ) A non -official 
member may resign his office as such member by writing under his hand adres 
sed to the Central Government and such resignation shall be effective from the 
date on which it is accepted . The casual vacancy so caused shall be Alled in by 
nomination by the Central Government. 

( 2 ) A person nominated to fill a casual vacancy shall hold office for so long 
only as the member , whose place he Alls would have been entitled to hold office , 
if the vacancy had not occurred . 

7. Register of members . - ( 1 ) The Board shall maintain a register in which the 
name and address of each member shall be entered . 

( 2 ) If a member changes his address , he shall notify his new address to the 
Secretary and the Secretary shall amend the relevant entry in the Register 
accordingly . 

8 . Non -official member going out of India . - ( 1) Before a non - official member 
leaves India , he shall inform the Chairman and intimate to him the date of his 
departure and the date of his expected return to India , 

( 2 ) If he intends to be, or is actually , absent from India for a period longer 
than six months, he shall tender his resignation unless the Chairman , at his 
discretion , allows him to continue as a member of the Board. 

( 3 ) Il a non - official member is continuously absent from India for a period 
longer than six months and has not obtained the Chairman s permission under 
sub -rule ( 2 ) , the Central Government may, subject to the provisions of section 
6 , remove him fram membership of the Board , 

9 . Non -official member absenting bilmself from three consecutive meetings of 
the Board . — Any non - official member , who without the permission of the Chair 
man absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the Board may , subject 
to the provisions of section 6 , be removed from membership of the Board by the 
Central Government. 

10 . Secretary of the Board . — ( 1) The Secretary of the Board shall draw such 
salary as the Central Government may deem flt to fix in each case . 
( ii ) If the Secretary is not an officer in the service of the Government 
( a ) his leave and leave allowances and travelling allowances shall be the 

same as those admissible to the class of officers to which the Cen 

tral Government may declare him to correspond in status; 
(b ) the other conditions of service shall be such as the Central Govern 

ment may determine in each case . 
( iii ) If the Secretary is an officer in the service of the Government, the 
Board shall make such contribution to wards the leave allowances , pension and 
provident fund as may be required , by the conditions of his service under the 
Government, to be made by him or on his behalf . 


( iv ) The Central Government may terminate the services of the Secretary 
appointed under clause ( li ) at any time without giving any reasons therefor by 
giving three months notice, and the Secretary may resign his office at any time 
by giving three month s notice in writing to the Central Government. 


10A . Financial Adviser of the Board . - - The Board shall appoint, with the 
approval of the Central Government, a Financial Adviser to advice the Board 
on all matters relating to revenue and expenditure. 


1770 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1956 


[PART II - SEC. 3 


11, Nomination of members to the Executive Committee . The Central Gov 
ernment shall nominate the following persons to the Executive Committee of 
the Board under section 10 : 
( i) The Joint Secretary in charge of Co -operation , Ministry of Food and 

Agriculture , Government of India ; 
(ii ) The financial Adviser to the Ministry of Food and Agriculture on the 

Board ; 
( lii ) The representative of the Ministry of Production or of the Planning 

Commission on the Board . 
12 . Vice - Chairman of the Executive Committee . — The Vice Chairman of the 
Executive Committee shall be nominated by the Central Government. 

13 . Resignation by non - official members of the Executive Committee. — A non 
official member of the Executive Committee may resign his office as such mem 
ber of the Executive Comınittee by writing under his head addressed to the 
Secretary and such resignation shall to effective from the date on which it is 
accepted by the Executive Committee. 


CHAPTER III 
NOMINATION AND ELECTION OF DIRECTORS OF THE CENTRAL WAREHOUSING CORPORATION 

14 . Nomination of Directors by the Board . — The Board shall nominate the re 
presentatives of the Ministry of Transport and of the Railway Board , who are 
serving on the Board, as the two directors referred to in clauso ( b ) of sub - section 
( i) of section 21. 


18 . Issue of notico of election . Where at any meeting an election is to be held , 
the particulars relating to the vacancy shall be specified in the notice convening 
the meeting . 


16 . List of onch class of shareholders .-- . ( 1 ) For the purpose of election of a 
director under any of the sub - clauses ( i) to ( iv ) of clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 1 ) 
of section 21, a separate list of shareholders of each class shall be prepared at 
least four weeks before the date of the meeting at which the clcction is to be 
held and the shareholders of each class shall be cligibic to vote in the election 
of director representing their class only . 

( 2 ) Each such list shall be available for purchase at a price of 8 annas for 
each copy on application at the Head Office of the Central Warehousing Corpora 
tion . 

17 . Nomination of candidates for directorship . - ( 1 ) No candidate for election 
as a director of tlie Central Warehousing Corporation shall be valicly nominated 
unless 
( a ) he is , on the last date for rccepit of nomination , not disqualificd to be 

a director under section 22 ; 
( b ) he is nominated by a shareholder of the class of shareholders in ros 

pect of which the clection is to be held ; 
( c ) the nomination is in writing signed by a duly authoriscd representa 

live oi the shareholder , A nomination may also be made by a reso 
lution of the Directors of the Shareholding institution and where 
it is so made a copy of the resolution certificd to be a true copy by 
the Chairman of the meeting at which it was passed shall be 
despatched to the head office of the Corporation and such copy shall 

be deemed to be a nomination . 
( 2 ) No nomination shall be valid unless it is received in the Head Office of 
the Corporation not less than 14 days before the date fixed for the election , 

18 . Publication or list of candidates for directorship . On the first working 
day following the last date fixed for the receipt of nomination papers , the Chair 
man shall take the same into consideration . He shall, after such enquiry , if any , 
as he thinks necessary , accept or reject the nomination of any candidate . Any 
person aggrieved by the decision of the Chairman , may within 7 days of the order 
of the Chairman , accepting or rejecting the nomination of any candidate , appeal 
to the Central Government, whose decision thereon shall be Anal, I the number 
of valid nominations is equal to the vacancies to be Alled in each category, the 


PART II- SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1966 


1771 


candidates validly nominated shall be deemed to be elected at the meeting con 
vened for the purpose and their names and addresses shall be published as so 
selected . If the number of valid nominations exceeds the number of vacancies 
in each category the Chairman shall cause to be published the names and addres 
ses of candidates validly nominated in the Gazctte of India and in at least three 
news- papers in India . 


19. Term of office, and filling of casual vacancies among directors . 
( 1 ) A nominated director shall hold office so long as he remains a member 

of the Board 
( 2 ) Subject to the provisions of sub -section ( 2 ) of section 21 , an elected 

director shall hold omce for a term of two years or until a successor 

is elected , whichever is longer . 
( 3 ) A cusual vacancy in the office of a director shall be filled up by election 

Or nomination by the authority Competent so to elect or nominate 
and a director so clected or nominated shall hold office for so 
long only as the director whose placa he fills would havo been 

entitled to hold oilice i! ths vacancy had not occurred : 
Provided that no casual vacancy occurring within three months of the date 
of expiry of the nomal term of oflice of a dircctor shall be filled under this sub 
rule , 


20 . Power to nominate director s 0.7 failure to elect. - II aliy class of share 
holders referred to in claus ? ( d ) of sub - scution ( i ) of section 21 fuils to clect a 
director within two months of the notice of the vacancy given by the Secretary 
or within such further period as the Central Government may allow , the Board 
shall noininate a director to fill the vacancy , 


21, Election of directors of the Executive Committee. -- The two dircctors to 
be chosen by the Central Warchousing Corporation under clause ( c ) of sub 
Section ( 1 ) of section 26 shall be 
( i) The Financial Advisor to the Ministry of Food and Agriculture on the 

Board of directors of the Corporation ; 
( ii ) Onc director el..cird by the board of directors of the Corporation 

Trora among the four directors referred to in clause ( d ) of sub 

scction ( 1 ) of section 21. 
21 - A . Financial Adviser of the Corporation . The Officer appointed under Rule . 
10A shall also act as the Financial Adviser of the Central Warehousing Corpora 
tion to advise them on all matters relating to revenue and cxpenditure. 

CHAPTER IV 


SIIARKS OF THE CENTAL. WAREHOUSING CORPORATION 
22 . Shares moveablo property . - -The shares of the Central Warchousing 
Corporation shall be moveable property . 

28 . Conditions of Arst allotment of shares. - - ( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of 
the Act and thesc Rules , shares shall be under the control of the hoard of 
directors of the Corporation , 

( 2 ) The first allotment of shares shall be made by the Board of Directors in 
accordance with the provisions of section 18 to applicants , who are qualified to 
be registered us sharc -holders of the Corporation . 

( 3 ) The board of directors may make allotments to the applicants for shares 
either in full, or in part depending on the number of applicants from the class 
of sharcholders concerned . In so far as it is practicable , the board of directors 
shall make full allotment in respect of the applications for smaller number of 
shares so that there may be as many shareholders of that class as possible . 

( 4 ) The decision of the board of dircctors as to whether in a particular 
application for shares there shall be full, partial or no allotment, shall 
be final, 

24 . Share Register . — ( 1 ) The Corporation shall maintain at head office, & 
register of shareholders qualified under the Act to be registered therein and 
shall enter therein the following particulars: 
( a ) the name and address at which each shareholder has his principal 

place of business ; 


17 72 


THE GAZATE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


[ PART II - Sec. 3 


( b ) the categories specified in sub - section ( 2 ) of section 18 of the Act 

under which the shareholder is qualified to be so registered ; 
( c ) the date on which each person is entered as a shareholder, the manner 

in which he acquired his share and except in the case of Arst allot 

ment, the name of the previous holder ; 
( d ) the date on which each person ceases to be a shareholder and the 

name of the person to whom and the ledger to which the share is 

transferred , 
( 2 ) In the share register , a separate ledger shall be maintained in respect of 
reach of the categories of shareholders referred to in section 18 ( 2 ) namely the 
Board , the State Bank of India , other scheduled banks, insurance companies, 
investment trusts and other classes of financial institutions and recognised 
associations and joint stock companies dealing in agricultural produce . 


(2) The categorieank 
of Indjasses of finanin agrict 


25. No joint holding of shares. - The Corporation shall not recognise the joint 
holding of shares. 

26 . Inspection of Share Register ( 1 ) The share register prescribed by rule 
24 , except when closed under Rule 27 , shall be open to the inspection of any 
shareholder, free of charge, at the head office of the Corporation during business 
hours, subject to such reasonable restrictions as the Corporation may impose , 
but so that no less than two hours in each day may be allowed for inspection . 

( 2 ) A shareholder shall not have the right to make a copy of any entry in 
any such register by himself, but may, except when the register is closed , 
require a copy of any such register or of any part thereof, on pre- payment 
therefor , at the rate of 8 annas for every hundred words or fractional part 
thereof required to be copied . 

27. Closure of Sharo Register - - The board of directors may, by giving notice 
by advertisement, close the share register for a period of 45 days but not 
exceeding 30 days , at one time as may be necessary . 

28 . Share Certificate . — ( 1 ) Every share certificate shall be issued under the 
common seal of the Corporation , 

( 2 ) Every share certiAcate shall specify tha number and denote numbers of 
the share in respect of which it is issued and shall be issued within 3 months 
of the date of application 

29. Every shareholder entitled to one free share certificato . - ( 1) The board 
and the State Bank shall each be eitntled, free of charge , to one certificate for 
all the shares registered in their name. 


( 2 ) Every shareholder other than the Board and the State Bank shall be 
entitled, free of charge, to one certificate for each 5 shares registered in its name. 
If any shareholder requires more than one certifcate for each 5 shares held 
by it, it shall pay for each additional certificate , a sum of Re. 1 . A shareholder 
holding less than 5 shares shall however be entitled , free of charge, to one share 
certificate and if it requires more than one certificate, it shall pay for each 
additional certificate a sum of Re. 1 . 


30 . Renewal of share certificate. - (1 ) If any share certificate is worn out or 
defaced or tendered for sub - division , then upon production thereof to the head 
office of the Corporation , it may order the same to be cancelled and issue A 
new certificate or certificates in lieu thereof and if any share certificate is alleged 
to be lost or destroyed , then upon production of such evidence of the loss or 
destruction thereof, as the board of directors may consider satisfactory and upon 
such indemnity with or without security as the board of directors may require, 
a new certificate in lieu thereof shall be given to the party entitled to such lost 
or destroyed certificate, provided that no such certificate shall be issued without 
first giving notice to the public insorted in local newspapers and inviting objec 
tion , if any, within a week of the notice , In case of loss or destruction , the 
person availing himself of the provisions of this rule shall also pay to the 
Corporations all expenses incidental to the investigation of evidence of loss or 
destruction and the preparation of the requisite form of indemnity as aforesaid . 

( il ) For every certificate issued under this rule , there shall be paid to the 
Corporation , a sum of Re, 1, in addition to any incidental expenses, which may 
have been incurred by it under sub - clause ( 1) . 


PART II - SEC./ 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1986 


1773 


31. Corporation s llen on shares. - The Central Warehousing Corporation shall 
have a first lien upon all shares registered in the name of each shareholder and 
upon the proceeds of sale thereof for its debts , liabilities and engagements, 
solely or jointly, with any other person to or with the Corporation , whether 
the period for payment. fulfilment or discharge thereof shall have actually 
arrived or not, and such lien shall extend to all dividends from time to time 
declared in respect of such shares . Unless otherwise agreed , the registration of 
a transfer of shares shall operate as a waiver of the Corporation s licn , if any , 
on such shares . 

32 . Disqualified Shareholder. - ( 1 ) It shall be the duty of any institution 
registered as a shareholder forthwith upon ceasing to be qualified to be so 
registered , to give intimation thercof to the board of directors . 

( 2 ) The Board may , at any time cause such cnquiry to be made as it may 
consider necessary for asccrtaining whether any institution registered as a 
shareholder has ceased to be so qualified and upon being satisfied about this , it 
shall inform the shurcholder that it is not entitled to be a shareholder of the 
Corporation . The shareholder will not be further entitled to the payment of any 
dividend on any such share nor to excrcise any of the rights of a shareholder 
otherwise than for the purpose of the sale of such share and the Corporation 
hall make an entry in the register to that cffect . 

( 3 ) If the Board shall find that an institution , which is not qualified to be 
a shareholder of the Corporation , is registered by inadvertence or otherwise as 
a shareholder of the Corporation , it shall inform such shareholder that it is not 
entitled , to the payment of any dividend on any such share nor to exercise 
any of the rights of a shareholder otherwise than for the purpose of the sale of 
such share and shall make an entry in the register to that effect. The decision 
of the board under this rule as to whether an institution is qualified to be a 
shareholder or not shall be final. 

38. Shares may be issued subject to different conditions as to call etc . The 
Corporation may make arrangements on the issue of shares for a difference 
between the holders of such shares in the amount of calls to be paid and the 
time of payment of such calls . 

84, Instalments on shares to be duly pald . If, by the conditions of allotment 
of any share, the whole or part of the amount or issue price thereof shall be 
payable by instalments , every such instalment shall, when , due, be paid to be 
Corporation by the institution , which for the time being, shall be the registered 
holder of the share . 

35 . Trust not recognised .- Save as herein otherwise provided, the Corporation 
shall be entitled to treat the registered holder of any share as the absolute 
owner thereof, and accordingly shall not except as ordered by a Court of com 
patent jurisdiction or as by statute required be bound to recognise any equitable 
or other claim to any interest in such share on the part of any other person . 

36 , Calls. The board of directors may , from time to time, make such calls as 
it thinks At upon the shareholders in respect of all moneys unpaid on the shares 
held by them respectively and not bv the conditions of allotment thereof made 
payable at fixed times , and each shareholder shall pay the amount of every call 
so made on such shareholder to the persons and at the times and places appoint 
ed by the board of directors 

37. When calls deemed to have been made.- - A call shall be deemed to have 
been made at the time when the resolution of the directors authorising such call 
was passed and a notice of call issued to the shareholders specifying the time 
and place of payment. and to whom such call shall be paid . At lcast 15 days 
time from the date of issue of such notice shall be given to the shareholders for 
such payment. 

38 . When interest on call or instalment payable . If the sum payable in 
respect of any call or instalment be not paid on or before the day appointed for 
payınent thereof. the holder for the time being of the share , in respect of which 
the call shall have been made of the instalment due, shall pay interest for the 
same at the rate of rupecs ninę per cent. per annum from the day appointed for 
the payment thereof, to the time of the actual payment. or at such other rate , 
as the bond of directors may determine. The board of directors may, in its 
absolute discretion , walve the payment of interest under this rule . 

39. Evidence in action for call. – At the trial or hearing of any action for the 
recovery of any money due for any call, it shall be sufficient to prove that the 
name of the shareholder sued, is entered in the register as the holder , that the 


1774 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


[PART II - SEC. 3 


resolution making the call is duly recorded in the minute book , in pursuance of 
these rules ; and it shall not be necessary to prove the constitution of the board 
of directors, which makes such call, nor any other matter whatsoever , but the 
proof of the matter aforesaid shall be conclusive cvidence of the debt. 

40 . Payment of calls in advance . - - The board of directors may , if it thinks 
fit, receive from any shareholder willing to advance the same, all or any part 
of the capital due upon the shares held by such member beyond the sums actual 
ly called for ; and upon the amount so paid in advance, or so much thereof as 
from time to timc exceeds the amount of the calls then made upon the shares 
in respect oť which such advance has been made, the Corporation may pay 
interest at such rate as the sharcholder paying such sum in advance and the 
board of directors agree upon , 

41, If call or instalment not paid notice may be given . If any shareholder 
fails to pay any call or instalment on or before the day appointed for the pay 
ment of the same, the board of directors may at any time theraller, during 
such time as the call or instalment remains unpaid , serve a liotice on such 
sharcholder requiring such shareholder to pay the same, together with any 
interest that may have accrucd and all expenses that may have been incurred 
by the Corporation , by reason of such non - payment. 

12 . Form of Notice . The notice shall name a day and a place or places on 
and at which such a call or instalment and such interest and expenses 25 aforc 
said are to be paid . The notice shall also state that in the event of non - payment 
at or before the time and at the place appointed , the shares in respect of which 
the call was made or instalment is payable , will be liable to be forfeited . 

43 . If notice not complied with shares may be forfeited . If the requisitions 
of any such notice as aforesaid are not complied with , any shares in respect of 
which such notice has been given may, at any timc thcrcaftcr , before payment 
of all calls or instalments , interest and expenses , dun in respect thereof, be 
forfeited by a resolution of the board of directors to that cffect . Such forfciture 
shall include all dividends declared in respect of the forfeited sharcs, and not 
actually paid before the forfeiture . 

44 . Forfeited sharos to become property of the Corporation - ---Any share so 
forfeited shall be decmed to be the property of the Corporation , and the board 
of directors rnay sell , reallot or otherwise dispose of the same in such manner 
as they may think fit , subject to the provision of Section 18 of the Act. 

45 . Power to annul forfeiture . The board of directors may at any timebefore 
any shares so forfeited shall have been sold , re -allotted, or otherwise disposed 
of, annul the forfeiture thereof upon such conditions as it thinks fit . 

46 . Arrears to be pald notwithstanding forfeiture .- - Any shareholder , whose 
shares have been forfeited under Rule 44 , shall notwithstanding , be liable to 
pay, and shall forthwith pay to the Corporation , interest and expenses owing 
upon or in respect of such shares at the time of the forfeiture together with 
interest thereon , from the time of forfeiture until payment at nine per cent. per 
annum and the board of directors may enforce the payment thereof, if they 
think fit 


CHAPTER V 


MISCELLANEOUS 


47 . Maintenance of and operation upon Bank Accounts and investments of the 
Central Warehousing Corporation . - ( 1 ) All moneys belonging to the Central 
Warehousing Corporation shall be deposited in the Reserve Bank or the Stato 
Bank of India or, subject to the sub - rules below , in such scheduled Bank Or 
Co - operative Bank as may be approved for this purpose by the Central Goy 
ernment to the account of the corporation . 


( 2 ) All payments by or on behalf of the Corporation shall be made by 
cheques except for amounts not exceeding Rs. 500 which may be made in cash 
from the amount of imprest sanctioned for such purposes , 


( 3 ) Such cheques and all orders for making deposits or investments or for 
the withdrawal of the game for the disposal in any other manner or the funds 
of the corporation , shall be signed by the Managing Director or by any officer of 
the Corporation authorised by the Board in this behalf , 


PART I - Sen 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


1775 


( 4 ) No payment shall be made out of the accounts of the Corporation unless 
the expenditure is covered by the financial estimate relerred to in S .36 ( 1 ) pro 
vided , however , that the Executive Committee of the Corporation may , at its 
discretion , authorisc expenditure being incurred in anticipation of such estimate , 
The statement of expenditure so incurred shall be submitted to the Board of 
Directors at its next mceting. 

( 5 ) All monetary transactions shall be entered in the cash book as soon as 
they occur and attested by an officer of the corporation duly authorized in this 
behalf. The cash book shall be closed daily and completely checked by the 
Managing Director or the officer authorised by him in this behalt. At the end 
of cach month , the Managing Director or the officer so authorisc- d , shall verify 
the cash book and the cash in hand and record a signed and dated certificate to 
that cffect. 

( 6 ) All payments by the Corporation shall be made on bil ); or other docu 
ments clul prepared and passed 57 17 Managing Director or othor officer 
autliorised in this behalf . The paid vouchers shall be stamped " paid " or SO 
canculled that they cannot be used a second time. They should then be kept 
serially numbered and produced at the time of audit . 

48 . Deposit in Bank or inves ment in securities of surplus funds. - ( 1 ) Any 
funds of the Contral Warchousing Corporation not required for current expendi 
ture may by placed in fixed deposit with the Reserve Bank of India or any 
scheduled or Co - operative Bunk approved in this behalf by the Central Gov 
ernment or invested in the name of the Corporation in the Securities of the 
Central Government or any State Government. 

( 2 ) The placing of money in fixed deposit and the investment thereof and 
the disposal of money so placed or invested shall require the sanction of the 
Executive Committee of the Corporation , 

49. The expenses of the Board shall be mct from such amount as the Central 
Government may , grant to the Board . 

50 . Annual statement of Accounts . — The books of the board shall be balanced 
on the last working day of the month of March in each year and the annual 
statement of accounts shall be set out as in Form " A " . 

51. Returns and Reports. — ( a ) The returns, statements and other particulars 
to be furnished by the Board , under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 15 in regard to 
the discharge of its functions under the Act , shall be in the Form " B " and they 
shall be submitted every half year to the Central Government. 

( b ) The Board shall submit to the Central Government on annual report of 
its activities , policies and programmes during the previous year within three 
months from the expiry of the period to which the report relates . Such a report 
shall be in Form " C " . 

52, Annual statement of accounts and Balance Sheet The Board of Directors 
shall cause the books of the Central Warehousing Corporation to be balanced on 
the last working day of the month of March in each year and the annual acco 
unts shall be set out as follows: 

( a ) a balance sheet in Form " D " . 
(b ) a profit and loss account for the year in Form " E " . 


FORMA 
(Rule 50 ) 


NATIONAL CO -OPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT AND WARFHCUSING POART) 

Annual Consolidutev Stalement of Account as al 3151 March 


Receipts 


Expenditure 


I . Opening Balance . 
2 . Grants received from the Central Government. 

(a ) Recurring 
( 6 ) Non - racurring 

( c ) Additional 
* 3 . Any other money received by the Board . 
4 . Loans repald . 


1. Contribution to Share Capital of Central 

warehousing Corporation . 
2 . Other investments . 
3 . Loans to — 

D ) State Govts 
(it) Central Warehousing Corporation , 
(nl) State Warchousing Corporations, 


- 


- - 


1776 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


[PART II SEC . 


Recoipts 


Expenditure 


5 . Advanccs rcpaid . 
6 . Dividend on 

(i) Shares of Centrul Warehousing Corporation . 

(11) Other investments . 
7 . Interest on 
(1 ) Louns to - - 

( a ) State Govts . 
(1 ) Central Warchousing Corporu ion . 

( c ) S . 21 : Warehousing Corporation , 
( ii ) Advances to 

( c ) State Governments. 
(1 ) Coutral Warehousing Corporation 

( c ) State Warehousing Corporations, 
(ix ) Bank accounts . 
8 . Miscellaneous, 


* 4 . Advances to 

(1 ) State Governments . 
( it) Central Warchousing Corporation . 

( 41) State Warchousing Corporations, 
5 . Subsidies to 

(1) State Governments . 
( 1 ) Centrul Warchousing Corporation . 

(iii ) Siute Warehousing Corporations . 
6 . Administration . 
( 1) Salary & allowances of the Secretary 

& other stolt 
( 11 ) Fecs . Travelling & daily allowances 

of members. 
( ii ) Rent , Rules , Taxes . 
( iv ) Dead Stock . 
( 0 ) Printing & Stationery . 

( 17 ) Contingencicy . 
57 . Miscellaneous Expenses . 
8 . Balance on hund . 


* This will include advances that may he received or made while acting as agent of the Go 
vernment for purchase of Agricultural Produce under Section 9 / 21( h ). 


Form 1 Unler Form A 
" NATIONAL CO -OPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT FUND " 


Receipts 


Expenditure 


1 . Opening Balance. 
2 . Grant from the Board , 
3 . Repayment of loans by State Governments . 
4 . Interest on loans to State Governments. 
5 . Interest on investments, 
6 . Miscellaneous Receipts. 


1. Loans to State Governments . 
2 , Subsidies to State Governments . 
3 . Investments. 
4 . Administrative Expenses . 
5 . Miscellancou s Expenses. 
6 . Balance on hand. 


Form 


II under Form A 


“ NATIONAL, WAREHOUSING DEVELOPMENT FUND) 


Receipts 


Expenditure 


1. Opening Balance . 
2 . Grant from the Board , 


3 . Repayment of loans from 

(1) Central Warehousing Corporation . 
(ii ) State Warehousing Corporations. 

(i ) State Governments . 
4 . Interest on investments . 
5 . Dividend on shares of Central Warchousing 

Corporation . 
6 . Miscellaneous Receipts. 


1. Contribution to the Share Capital of 

Central Warehousing Corporation , 
2 . Loans to 

(i ) State Govts . 
(ii) Central Warehousing Corporation , 

(111 ) State Warehousing Corporations. 
3 . Subsidies to 

(1) Central Warehousing Corporation . 

(ii) State Warchousing Corporations. 
( 111) State Governments , 
4 . Investments . 
5. Administrative Expenses, 
6 . Miscellaneous Expenses . 
7 . Balance on hand. 


PART II - Sed . 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


1777 


FORM B 

[ See Rule 51 ( a ) ] 
Returns and Statements under Section 15 ( 1) of the Act 
1. Grants received from Central Government 

( a ) Opening balance 
(b ) Grants received during the year . 

( c ) Total 
2 . Contribution to the share capital of the Central Warehousing Corporation 
3 . Loans to : 
A : - State Governments for subscribing to the share capital of 
( i) Marketing Societieg 

( a ) Primary 
(b ) Regional 

( c ) Apex 
( ii ) Processing Societics 
( iii) State Warehousing Corporation 

(iv ) Other Cooperative Societies 
B ; - Ştate Governments for financing construction of warchouses and / or 
godowns of 

(i) Large Sized Societies 
( ii ) Marketing Societies 
( iii ) Processing Societies 
( iv ) Regional Marketing Societies 
( v ) Apex Marketing Societies 
( vi) Other Cooperative Societies 
Ci - State Governments for giving loans for purchase of transport vehicles 


by 


( ) Large - sized Societies 
( ii) Marketing Societics 
( lli) Processing Societies 

( iv ) Other Cooperative Societies 
4 . Subsidies to : -- 

( a ) State Governments for financing construction of Warehouses and / or 
godowns of 

( i) Large - sized Societies 
( ii ) Primary Marketing Socicties 
( iii) Regional Marketing Societies 
(iv ) Apex Marketing Societies 
( v ) Processing Societies 
( vi) Other Cooperative Societies 
( vii ) State Warehousing Corporation 

(b ) State Governments for making grants to meet expenses of management 
of 

( i) Large- sized Societies 
(ii) Central Financing Agencies 
( lii) Apex Bank 
(iv ) Central or Apex Land Mortgage Bank 
( v ) Marketing Societies 
( vi) Processing Societies 
( vii ) Other Cooperative Societies 


. 


1778 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 [PART II - SEC. 3 

-- - A 

- - - - - = 
(c ) State Governments for meeting the cost of additional departmental 
staf 
5 . Advances for purchases made on behalf of Government to : 

( i ) State Governments 
( ii ) Central Warchousing Corporation 
( iii ) State Warehousing Corporations 


FORM C 
[ See Rule 51 ( b ) ] 

Report under Section 15 ( 2) 
The report shall be in the form of narrative and shall contain : -- 

1 . General revicw and economic appraisal of the achievement of the plans 
of development of ( a ) Agricultural Credit, ( b ) Marketing , ( c ) Processing, ( d ) 
Farming and ( e ) Warehousing, as well as the beneficial results obtained and 
dificulties expericnced . 
2. Role played by 

( 1) The Reserve Bank of India . 
( 2 ) The State Bank of India 
( 3 ) The Central Committee for Cooperative Training 
(4 ) All India Cooperative Union 
( 5 ) Industrial Finance Corporation . 
(8 ) Different Committees likc_ the Indian Central Cotton / Jutc / Cocoanut / 

Lac / Tobacco / Oil - Secds Committees. 
3 . Policies adopted in planning and promoting programmes of production . 
4 . Activities of - 

( 1) Large - sized Societies 
( ii ) Marketing Societies 
( iii ) Processing Societies 
( iv ) Farming Societies 
( v ) Central Warehousing Corporation 

( vi) State Warehousing Corporation , 
5 . Subsidiary statements and schedules, as may be decided by the Board 
from time to time. 


FORM D 

(See Rule 52 ] 
CENTRAL WAREHOUSING CORPORATION 

Balance Sheet as at 31st March . 


Capital and liabilities 


Property and Assets 


I 


2 


Rs, A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


1. Capital 

1 ) Authorised . . 
( 11 ) Issued . . . 
(ii) Subscribcd - 
(a ) National Cooperative Develop 

ment & Warehousing Board . 
(6 ) State Bank of India 
(C ) Scheduled Banks . 
( d ) Cooperative Socicties . . 
( 8 ) Insurance Companies 

Investment Trusts 


1 . Cash on hand 
2 . Cash in Banks- - 
(a ) The Reserye Bank of India 
(6 ) The State Bank of India 
(c ) Scheduled Banks 
( d ) Cooperative Banks 
3 . Investments 
( a ) Central Govt. Sccuritics 
(b ) State Govt. Securitics 
( 0 ) State Warehousing Corpora 

tion shares . 
( d ) Other investments 


PART II — Sed . 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1956 


1779 


4. Fixed Asscts, 


1) Lands 
( ii ) Buildings 
(ii) Godowns & Warehouses 


( P ) Financial Institutions ... 
( h ) Recognised Associations deal 

ing in Agricultural Produce . 
(i ) Joint Sto : k Companies deuling 

in Agricultural Producc . . 
( iv ) Paitus 
2 . Calls in arrears . 
3 . Reserye Fund under section 40 ( I ) . 
4 . Bad and Doubtful Debts Fund under 

Section 40 ( 2 ) . 
5 . Other funds 
6 . Bonds & Debentures . 
7 . Borrowing from 


5 . Guarantccs by Goyt. per 

cuntta . 


6 . Value of Dead Stock 


7 . Advances to State Warehous 
ing Corporations & Coopera 

tive Sociсties for purchase 
of agricultural commodities 
under section 25( e ). 


8 . Estimated value of stocks held 

As agent of Govt . 


9 . Other items 


(1) The Reserve Bank of India under S . 

37 ( 2 )(1 )(a ). 
(it) The Reserve Bank of India under 

S . 37 ( 2 ) (i) ( b ) . 
(iii) l he Statc Bank of India undir 

S . 37 (2 )( ii) 
(iv ) Central Govt, under $ . 37 ( 3 ) . 

( 0 ) Board under S . 37 (3 ) . 
8 . Advances received for purchase of 

Agricultural Commodities . . 
9 . Liability ( S . 19 ( (i) under guarantees 

by Govern nent per contra 
IO , Provision for taxes . 
II . Other liabilities 
12 . Suspense 
13 . Other items . 
14 . Profit and loss account 

ΤοΤΑΙ. 


FORM E 

(Rule 52 ) 
CENTRAL WAREHOUSING CORPORATION 
Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 3151 March . 
Rs. A . P , Rs. A . P , 

Rs. A . P . Rs. A . P . 
1 . Interest on 

1 . Warchousing charges . 
(0 ) Loans from the Reserve 
Bank of India 

2 . Interest on 
(5 ) Loans from the State 
Bank of India 

(a ) Securities 
(c ) Bonjs . 

( 6 ) Bank Accounts 
( d ) Dubentures 

(c ) Advances . 
2 . Establishment 

(d ) Loans from the Board 
3 . Directors fees , etc . . 
4 . Rent, Rates , Taxes 

3 . Subsidies received from 
5 . Depreciation 

the Board , . . 
6 . Repairs 
7 . Bad & Doubtful Debs Fund 

4 . Dividend on shares held 
8 . Auditors fees or remunera 

in State Warehousing 
tion , 

Corporation . . 
9 . Stationery , printing etc . . 
10 . Miscellancous expenses 

5 . Other income, including 
Net profit cld . 

agency commission . 
Netloss B /D . . . 


[No. F . 1 - 9 / 56 Coop I. ) 
KRISHAN CHAND , Jt . Secy . 


I 780 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


[PART II — SEC. 3 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2409. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 read with section 
16 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendment in the Madras Rice Mills Licensing 
Order . 1955 namely : 

Amendment 
In the said Order, after sub - clause (4 ) of clause 11 - A , the following sub 
clause ( 5 ) shall be inserted , namely : 

" (5 ) Pending the disposal of an appeal or application for revision , the Com 
missioner of Civil Supplies or the State Government as the case may be, may 
by order direct that 

(i) the order refusing to grant or renew a licence ; or 
( ii) the order cancelling or suspending a licence, shall not take effect 

pending the disposal of the appeal or the application for revision 
Hled against such order ." 

[No, 204 (4 ) / 56 -PY .II . 1 
S . N . BHALLA, Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi- 2 , the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2410 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( p ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 6 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 ( 5 of 1908 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendment in the Indian Port Health Rules , 1955 , 
namely : - - 

In APPENDIX 4 to the said Rules, for the tabular form the following shall be 
substituted namely : - - 


Date 


Show by " X ” whether : 


Signature and professional Approved stamp 
status of vaccinator 

Cachet d authenti 
Signature et qualite profes - fication 

sionnelle du vaccinateur 


Indiquer par " X " s il s aglt de : 


IA 


Ia 


Ib 


Primary vaccination performed 
Primovaccination effectuce 


Ib 


Read as succcasful Prise 
Unsuccessfuu Pas de prise 


Revaccination 


3 


Revaccination 


Revaccination 


24H 


Reyaccination 


Revaccination 


Revaccination 


(NO, F . 15 -8 /56- 1.H .) 


PART 12 - Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1968 


1781 


S . R . O . 2411. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8A of the Indian 
Aircraft Act 1934 ( 22 of 1934 ), the Central Government hereby makes the following 
amendment in the Indian Aircraft (Public Health ) Frules, 1954 , namely : 


In SCHEDULE V to the said Rules, for the tabular form the following shall be 
substituted namely : - - 


Date 


Show by " X " whether : 


Signature and professional Approved stamp 

status of vaccinator 


Indiquer par " X " si ll s agit de : 


Signature et qualite 
professionnelle du 

vaccinateur 


Cachet 
d authentification 


Ia 


ib 


la Primary vaccination performed 

Perimoyaccination effectuec 
- - 
Ib Rend as successful Prise 

Unsucccssful Pas de prise 


Revaccination 


3 


Revaccination 


Revaccination 


Revaccination 


Revaccination 


Revaccination 


[ NO, F . 16 - 14 / 56 -1.H . ) 
A , T, SESHADRI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 19th October , 1956 


S . R . O . 2412 . - - Dr. K . L . Wig , M . R . C . P ., Principal, Medical College, Amritsar 
and Dean , Medical Faculty of the Punjab University , has been duly elected as a 
member of the Medical Council of India under clause (b ) of Sub - section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1933 (XXVII of 1933 ) , with effect 
from the 13th October, 1956 , vice Dr. Tulsi Das . 


[No. 7 ,5 - 85 /50 - M . I.] 


[PART II - 8rc. 3 


1782 THE GAZETTE OF INDLA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 
SS - 

New Delhi - 2, the 22nd October 1956 


S . R . O . 2413 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Charit 
able Endowments Act, 1890 ( 6 of 1890 ) , the Central Government hereby makes 
the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India , Ministry 
of Health No. F .4 - 3 ( 2 ) / 53 -MI, dated the 12th June , 1953: 

At the end of Schedule I to the said tiotification , after the heading "Held 
against Overdraft Account and the entry relating thereto , the following heading 
and entry shall be inserted , namely : 


- 


- - 


- 


" Donation Funds 


Face value 


Source from which 

donation derived . 


Rs. 15 , 000 


Governmen : of India 31 % 10 - 
Year Treasury Savings Deposit 
Certificates. 


Private donation from 
philanthropists who sym 
pathised with the aims 
and objeccs of the insti . 
tution . 


[No. F .4 -60 /56 -MII, ] 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi- 2 , the 20th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2414 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( li) of clause 
( b ) of section 3 of the Drugs Act, 1940 ( 23 of 1940 ) , the Central Government 
hereby specifies as drugs the following substances namely :- - 

(a ) Chemical Contraceptives; and 
( b ) the following Insecticides: 

( i) Dicophane ( Dichloro Diphenyl Trichloroethene ) and its formulations. 
( ii ) Pyrethrum and its preparations . 


[No. F . 1 - 10 / 56 - D . ] 
N . B . CHATTERJI, Dy . Secy , 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 


( Transport Wing ) 


PORTS 


New Delhi, the 11th October 1958 


S . R . O , 2415 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses ( b ) and ( c ) of 
section 5 of the Bombay Landing and Wharfage Fees Act, 1882 ( Bombay Act VII 
of 1882) as applied to the Port of Kandla by the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Transport No. 14 - P (89 ) /49- 1, dated the 29th 
June 1950 , the Central Government hereby declares the following two cargo 
jetty berths, as public landing places and determines the limits of these landing 
places as these indicated in the table below against them , in addition to the 
public landing places previously declared by notification No . 14 - P ( 35 ) /50, dated 
the 23rd January 1951 read with notifications No . 4 - PII ( 3 ) / 61 dated the 6th June 


L ARF TILSEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1936 


1783 


1951, No . 4 - PII( 1 ) /53 dated the 29th September 1953 and No. 4 - PII (5 ) /54 
dated the 15th March 1955 , namely : 


Name of the landing 

place 


General description 


For the landing and 

shipmeni of 


Liinits 


1. Cargo 

N . . I . 


Jutry berth 


A reinfurced cemcuit con - General merchandise 

Inerchandise Bounded on the 
crete structure support - orlier than explo - north by the nor 
Ld on R . C . C . Pil .8 wi_b sious and dangerous tiern end of the 
100 tons double bollar petroleum . 

Caryn jetty , on the 
ds and handing fen 

cast by Kandla 
ders every 75 feel, 

Creck , on the 
served with railwuy 

south by cargo 
tracks, onc transit shell 

jerty berth No. 2 
and one warehouse and 

and on the west by 
3 and 6 ton clectric 

reclaimed land , 
crancs. Available depth 
of water at L . W . O . S . T . 
along quay face is 32 
feet. 
Do . 

Do. 

Bounded on the 

north by cargo 
jetty berth No . I 
on the cast by 
Kandla Creek , on 
the south by cargo 
jeity berth No. 3 
and on the west by 
reclaiined land . 


2. Cargo Jetty Berth 

No . 2 , 


[No. 4 -PII ( 4 ) / 56 .] 
T. S . PARASURAMAN , Dy. Secy . 


( Transport Wing ) 


PORTS 

New Delhi, the 16th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2416 . — In exrecise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of 
section 3 of the Indian Ports Act , 1908 ( XV of 1908 ) the Central Government is 
pleased to authorise Shri M . D , Sassoon , Probationery Pilot , Kandla Port to 
pilot vessels upto 7, 500 tons gross during day light only , in and out of the Port 
of Kandla . 

[No. 2 -PII ( 100 ) / 56 .] 


New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2417 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 6 
of the Indian Ports Act. 1908 ( 15 of 1908 ) , the Central Government hereby directs 
that with effect from the 1st December , 1956 , the following further amendments 
shall be made in the Port Rules for the Port of Vizagapatam published with the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Department of Commerce No . 
222 P & L ( 19 ) / 31 ( 1 ), dated the 23rd September , 1933, the same having been pre 
viously published as required by sub - section ( 2 ) of the said section , namely : - 
In the said rules , after rule 12 , the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
* 12 - A . No person shall. except under the authority of a written permit 

granted by the Superintendent, Traffic 
( a ) have or carry with him a camera for taking photographs or any material 

for making a sketch, plan , model or other devices , or 
(b ) take any photographs or make any sketch , plan or model of any movable 

or immovable object or building or Installation within any dock area . 


1784 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1938 


[PART II — SEC. > 


Explanation . For purposes of this rule, the expression " dock area " shall consist 
of the following : 

(i) The Dry Dock area between the eastern and western boundary walls , 
( ii) The quay Wall area enclosed by Customs boundary wall, 
( iil ) The coal and all wharves and jetties enclosed by barbed wire fencing, 

and 
( iv ) The eastern fore- shore of the Turning Basin from the Southern Lighter 
Canal to the Narrow Gauge Rallway gate ." 

[No, 17- PIII(9 ) / 56 .) 
K . BALAKRISHNAN , Under Secy . 


( Transport Wing ) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2418 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 of the Indian 
Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923 ), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following further amendment in the rules regulating the granting of certificates 
of competency to engineers (including motor engineers ), published with the noti 
Acation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Transport, No. S . R .O . 240 , 
dated the 9th February , 1952 , namely : 

In APPENDIX D to the said rules , under the heading " ( I) Day Classes " and the 
sub -heading " Name of School or Institution " , after the entry " Melbourne-University 
of Melbourne" , the following entry shall be inserted , namely : -- 
" 11 Melbourne - Caulfield Technical School , Caulfield East, Melbourne 
Australia ," 

[ No. 67-M .A .(15)/ 56.) 
S . K , GHOSH , Dy. Secy. 


( Transport Wing ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2419 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section I 
of the Motor Vehicles Act , 1939 (4 of 1939) , the Central Government hereby directa 
that the provisiong of Chapter VIII of that Act relating to Insurance of Motor 
Vehicles against Third Party Risks shall have effect on and from the 29th October , 
1956 , in all Part B States to which the said Act extends, except the State of 
Travancorc -Cochin . 

[No. 36 - T (8 ) / 56 .) 
D . D . SURI, Dy sety . 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 


New Delhi, the 20th October, 1956 


S . R . O . 2420 . — The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 1 ) 
and ( 3 ) of section 10A of the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 ( 7 of 
1904 ) , is published as required by sub - section ( 2 ) of the said section , for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration by the Central Govern 
ment on or after the 31st December , 1956 . 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft by _ the Secretary to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Education , New Delhi, before the date aforesaid , will be considered 
by the Central Government. 


PARD II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


1785 


Draft Rules 
Whereas the Central Governnient is of opinion that mining , quarrying , 
excavating , blasting and other operations of a like nature should be restricted 
and rogulated for the pu . pose of protecting and preserving the ancient monu 
ment in thc Island of Elephanta , District Kolaba , in the State of Bombay ; 

Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 1 ) and 
( 3 ) of section 10A of the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 ( 7 of 1904 ) , 
the Central Government hereby makes the following rules , namely : - - 

( 1 ) These rules may be called the Elcphanta Island ( Protected Monuments ) 
Rules , 1956 , 

( 2 ) They apply to the arca specificd in the Schedule ( hereinafter referred to 
as the area . ) 

( 3 ) They shall come into force at once . 

2 . No person shall, after the commencement of these rules, carry on in the 
area any mining , quarrying , cxcavating , blasting or other operation of like 
nature, exccpt under a licence granted by the Superintendent, Department of 
Archaeology , South Western Circle , Aurangabad (hcreinafter referred to as the 
Şuperintendent ) and in accordance with these rules . 

3 . The terms on which a licence may be granted to carry on any of the said 
operations shall be as follows: 

( a ) Within a rudius of half a mile of cave No. 1 Survey No . 66 and of Brick 
Stupa in new Survey No . 67 , none of the said operations, except minor quarry 
ing operations not involving blasting, for domestic purposes or village needs, 
shall take place . 

( b ) Outside the radius of half a mile referred to in clause ( a ) the Superinten 
deni may in consultation with the Inspector of Mines of the Government of India 
require that the said operations shall be carried on subject to such restrictions 
relating to the muffling of sound , the kind and charge of blasting materials and 
the depth and number , of blast holes to be fired at a time, as he may think fit 
to impose. 

( c ) The licensee shall give the Superintendent notice in writing --- ( 1) of not 
less than one month before commencing the said operations and ( ii ) in the 
event of the resumption of the said suspended operations after their suspension , 
a notice of not less than one week before resuming them . 

( d ) The liçencce shall get the demarcation line of the said operations fixed at 
his own cost through the Superintendent before commencing them . 

( e ) The Superintendent may suspend or cancel a licence for a breach of any 
of the terms thercof or if, in his opinion , the continuance of the said operations 
will endanger the protected monuments . 

4 . Any person committing a breach of these rules shall be punishable with 
fine which may extend to two hundred rupees . 

THE SCHEDULE 
Boundaries of the area to which the rules will apply 


East 
West 
North 
South 


Arabian Sea . 


Arabian Sea and parts of Survey No . 2, 3, 4 , and 59. 

[No. F .4 - 13 /53- C . 1.] 
D . CHAKRAVARTI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF PRODUCTION 


New Delhi, the 15th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2421 , - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of Rule 48 of Order XXI of the First Schedule 
to the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 ( V of 1908 ) the Central Government hereby appoints the 
officers specificd in column 1 of the table below as officers to whom notice of orders attaching the 
salaries and allowances of the officers specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of the 
said table shall be sent. 


1786 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


[PART II— SEC. 3 


TABLE 


Officers to whom notice should he sont 


Officers whusc salarils end allowences 

are attaches 


2 


Deputy Accountant General, Production , Com - Gazetted officers in the cffices of ile Salt 
merce & Industry , New Delhi. 

Commissioncr , New Delhi, R . S . S . Division , 
Minirg Engineer , (Mandi Salt Circle ), 

Mandi. 
Asstt . Accounts Officer, Production , Commerce Gazetted officcrs in Madias ord Fontey 
& Industry , Bombay . 

Regiitis . 
Asstt. Accounts Officer , Production , Comcrcs Gazcited officers in Calcutlu Region . 

& Industry , CA ]cult:9, 
Asstt. Salt Commissioner (Adin ), Offe: of the Non -Gaz ticd oficers in the office of Salt 
Salt Conmissioner , New Delhi. 

Commissioner , Now Dilti, 
Mining Engneer, Mandi . 

. . Niin -Gazetted officers in the Mandi Salt 

Circle , Mandi. 
General Manager, R . S . S . Division , Sanblur Nur - guzatted staff in the ffice of the R . S . S . 
Lakc , 

Division ( Xcept Didwana and Tachbadra 

Circles. 
Superintendent of Salt, Diluant . . Noti - gazetted staff in Didina Circle, 
Superintendent of Salt , Pachbadra . . Non - cazetted stol in Pecl bidra Circlc. 
Deputy Salt Commission I , Bombay . Non - gę zeited Staff in the office of the Deputy 

Salt Commissioner, Bombay . 
Assistant Salt Commissioner, Thana 
Assistant Salt Cominissioner, Jamnagar , Non - guzetted staff in their copective clicca . 
Assistant Salt Conmissioner , Kharugodha 
Superintendent Cur -Chief Chemist, v adala Non - guzetted staff in his circle . 
Superintendent of Salt, Bhayandar Circle 
Superintendent of Salt, Blandıp Cucle . 

Du . 
Superintendent of Salt, Urun Circle 

Do, 
Superintendent of Salt , Dhurangilhra Circle , 
Deputy Salt Commis: 1010r , Mavras 

. N .17 - ozerted staff in his olice , 
Asstt, Salt Commissioner , Tuticorin 

Do. 
Asstt. Salt Commissioner , Kakinada 

Do, 
Superintendent of Salt, Cuddulcre Circle . Nin - gazetted staff in his circle , 
Superintendent of Salt, Nagercoil Circle 

Do. 
Superintendent of Salt, Pennuguduri Circle 
Superintendent of Salt, Tuticorio Circle 
Superintendent of Salt, Naupada Circle . 

Do. 
Superintendent of Salt , Madras Circle 

Do. 
Asstt. Salt Commissioner , Calcutta 

Nor - fazeited staff in Caicutla Region cxccpt 

l-burnia Circle . 
Superintendent of Salt , I lumma Circle . . Non - gazetted stuff in his cirule . 


Do . 


Do . 


Do. 
Do. 


[No . 6,6 56 -Salt.} 
S . R . SUNDARAM , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 16th October. 1956 
S . R . O . 2422. In exercisc of the powers conferred by clause 4 of the Colliery 
Control Order , 1945 , as continued in force by section 16 of the Essential Com 
modities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Production , No. Ş .R . O . 1568, dated the 5th July , 1956 , 
namely : — 

In the said notification , for item ( ii ) ( which relates to the prices under table 
II ) of the Notc , the following items shall be substituted, namely : 
“ ( ii) The prices given under table II, cxccpt those in respect of collieries 

mentioned aguinst serial number s 22 to 26 , are for delivery free on 
rail at, or at the loading point nearest to , the colliery or free on road 
vehicle at the colliery ; in the case of the collierics mentioned against 


PANT IISec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1968 


1787 


serial Nos , 22 to 26 , the prices so given are for delivery free on rail; 
and in all cases the prices given in the table are inclusive of all 
charges. 

[No. 4 - CI ( 11) /56 .) 
A . NANU , Dy . Secy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 27th October 1056 
S . R . O . 2423. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further Amendment in the Order of the Government of India in the 
Minist: y of Production , No. SR. O . 1191, dated the 10th June, 1955 , namely : - - 
In the Schedule annexed to the said Order, against Serial No . 1 , under 

column t with the heading " Purpose" , for the words " against the 
quolas ( xed by the Central Government" and " aga !nst the quotas 
Axed by the Central Governancnt from tine to time" , the words 
" otherwise than against the Central Government s quota and " From 
time to time oiherwise than against the Central Government s quota " 
shall he substituted , respectively . 

[No. 18 -CI( 3) / 56 .] 
P . N . DHIR , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

New Deihi, the 22nd October 1956 
S .R . O , 2424. - The following draft of critain further amendments to the Indian 
Aircraft Rules , 1937 , which the Central Governmeni prop : 5 to make in exercise 
of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian Aircraat ict, 1934 (22 of 1934 ), 
is published , as required by section 14 of the said Act, for the information of all 
persons likely to be affected thereby , and notice is herehy glyen that the said draft 
will be taken into consideration on ur after the 25th January , 1957 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with res 
peut to the said draft before the date so specified , will be considered by the Central 
Goverriment. 

Draft Amendment 
For clause ( 1) to the proviso to paragraph 2 of Section C of Schedule VIII to the 
said Rules , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( i) a minimum of 500 hours flying experience as Co- pilot , but not as super 

numerary . on multi- engined aircraft of which at least 10 hours shall 
be by night" , 

[NO, 10 - A / 38 -56 .) 
M . DAYAL , Dy, Secy. 


(Posts & Telegraphs ) 

New Delhi, the 20th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2425 , — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 43 of the Indian 
Post Office Act , 1898 ( 6 of 1898 ) ; the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the Indian Post Office Rules , 1933 . 

For iule 125 of the said Rules, the following rulc shall be substituted , 
namely : 
" 125 . If the payee of a money order refuses to take payment on presenta 

tion of the money order to him , the amount of the money order 

shall be returned at once to the rcmittcr , free of charge : 
Provided that if the payee, while refusing to take payment on presentation 

of the money order to him makes an application in writing to the 
post office of delivery for the detention of the money order , or if 


1788 


THI GAZETTE OF INDIA , OU 


SER 27 , 1930 


[PART II 


3 


the payee is not found at the address given on the money order , the 
money order shall be detained in the post office for a period not 
exceeding seven days from the date of its presentation to the payee 
or from the date it is sent out for payment, as the case may be IT 
the payee fails to take payment of the money order from the jost 
office within the said period of seven days, the money order shall 
be returned to the remitter on the first working day immediately 

following the expiry of the said period of seven days: 
l l ovided further that the commission shall in no case be refunded ." 

[No . C. 11 -5 /55.) 


New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2426 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian Post Office 
Act , 1898 ( 6 of 1898 ), the Central Government hereby makes with effcct from 
the 1st December 1956 the following further amendment to the Indian Post Office 
Rules , 1933, namely : 
In rule 83 of the said Rules for the words " one Rupcc " the words " two 
rupees" shall be substituted . 

[No. 0 ,7 - 1/ 53. ] 
V . M . BHIDE , Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 9th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2427. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - section ( 1) of Section 
4 of the Evacuee Interest (Separation ) Act, 1951, the Central Government hereby 
appoints for the State of Bhopal, Shri R . S , Saxena, Sub - Divisional Magistrate . 
Bhopa ), as Compctent Officer , for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed 
on the competent officer by or under the said Act, within the said State , with 
effect from the 20th August, 1956. 

[ No. 16 (34 ) / 56 - Prop.I.] 
J. J. KARAM , Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 9th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2428 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( g ) of section 2 of 
the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , 
the Central Government hereby specifies the following tribal areas adjoining the 
North West Frontier Province for the purposes of the said clause , namely : 

Tribal areas of Malakand, Khyber , 
North Waziristan and South Waziristan . 

[No. F . 9 / 7 / 56 - SI. ] 


New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2429 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 
( No. 44 of 1954 ) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Nagendra 
Bahadur, I. A . S . as Chief Settlement Commissioner , for the purpose of performing 
the functions assigned to such Commissioner by or under the said Act. This 
appointment shall have effect during the period Shri L . J. Johnson , I.C .S ., iş 
on leave . 

[No. 5 /45 / 55 - SII .] 


S .R .O . 2430 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of Sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 ( 12 of 1954 ) , 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Nagendra Bahadur, J.AS , as 


PART II- SIC, ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


1789 


Chief Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such Commissioner by or under the said Act . This appointment shall 
have effect during the period Shri L . J . Johnson , I. C . S ., is on leave. 

[No . 5 /45 /55 -SII.] 
I. N . CHIB , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 15th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2431, - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 (NO, 44 of 
1954) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri B . P . Mathur as Settlement 
Omcer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officer by or 
under the said Act, with eflect from the date he took charge of his office . 

[No. 3 / 15 / 56 -SII.) 
S . R . O . 2432.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(No. 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri R . C . Takru as 
Assistant Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officer by or under the said Act , with effect from the date he 
took charge of his office. 

[No. 5 / 27 /56 - SII .) 
New Delhi, the 16th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2433 ,-- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (No. 44 
of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri H , S . Kamlani as Settle 
ment Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officer 
by or under the said Act , with effect from the date he took charge of his office. 

[No. 3 / 15 / 56 - SII. ] 
S . R . O . 2434 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government has appointed the officers , whose names 
are mentioned in the Annexure , as Assistant Settlement Officers, for the 
purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officers, by or under the 
said Act, with effect from the date they took charge of their posts . 

The officers mentioned against Serial Nos. 3 , 12, 15 , 37, 48, 53, 60 , 64 , 68, 
69, 73 , 74 , 79 , 81, 95 , 108 , 115 , 144 and 166 of the annexure , ceased to hold their 
respective offices with effect from the dates on which they demitted office. 


ANNEXURE 


Serial No. 


Name of the persons appointed . 


Shri R . M . Saldanha 
2 Shri T . C . Bagai 

Shri G . A . Thadhani 
4 Shri T . C . Datta 
5 Shri R . L . Mansukhani 
6 Shri R . N . Dhingra 
7 Shri S . Narula 
8 Shri M . M . Lal 
9 Shri Madan Singh 
10 Shri D . C . Nanda 
II Shri Des Raj Katyal 
12 Shri Jyoti Sarup 
13 Shri S . S . Govila 
14 Shri H . L . Goswami 
15 Shri H , L . Leekha 
16 Shri Agia Ram 
17 Shri B . S . Dubey 
18 Shri Uma Data 
19 Shri Baldey Kishan 


OanaWN 


I 190 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1968 


(PART II — SEC. 3 


Serial No. 


Name of the persons appointed 


NNNNN NT+ 


51 


20 Shri J . S . Sehgal 
21 Shri Arjan Nath 
22 Shri S . C . Jain 
23 Shri P . C . Baijal 
24 Shri S , P , Gupta 
25 Shri H . P . Asthana 
26 Shri H . C . Raina 
27 Shri I. D . Gera 
28 Shri Nand Kumar 
29 Shri R . K . Gupta 
30 Shri O . P . Girotra 
31 Shri K . C . Jain 
32 Shri R . N . Schyal 
33 Shri S . P . Sahni 
34 Shri S . A . Kidwai 

Shri Prem Narain 

Shri D . N . Scgal 
37 Shri Chhotey Lal 
38 Shri A . N . Dutt 
39 Shri S . P . Sood 
40 Shri Piyare Lal Sood 

Shri B . P . Mathur 

Shri M . R , Bhagat 
43 Shri J . C . Gulati 

Shri S . R . Shivnani 
Shri R . L . Mahindroo 
Shri Joga Singh 
Shri Zaheerun Nabi 
Shri H , G . Bala 
Shri Anibeshangar Trivedi 
Shri V . D . Kapur 
Shri Dhalu Ram 
Shri Lachman Das Jawa 
Shri K , L , Wadhyan 
Shri V . N . Gidwani 
Shri Tarlochan Singh 
Shri Gobind Ram Virmani 
Shri Harish Chandra 
Shri Sardari Lal Jain 
Shri J , P . Malhotra 
Shri K , N . Iggar 
Shri S . C . Dewan 
Shri V . S . Bhatnagar 
Shri M , L , Mathur 
Shri K . B . Lal 
Shri E , N . Sinclair 
Shri Attar Lal Bahl 

Shri Raghubir Singh 
68 Shri V . N . Handa 

Shri D . S . Mathur 
Shri Vidva Sagar Jha 
Shri T . P . Singh Anand 
Shri O . N . Choudhary 
Shri Benarsi Lal Basho 
Shri C , P , Kapur 
Shri Shiva K . Talwar 
Shri Raghubans Shanker 

Shri Sohan Singh 
78 Shri A , S . Bhatnagar 

Shri D . R . Dhall 

Shri Kesar Singh Bhatia 
81 Shri Parmatma Sahai 
82 Shri R , N . Aggarwala 

Shri Arjan Singh Bains 
84 Shri J . P . Sharma 

Shri R . N . Mathur 

Shri S . B . Lal 
87 Shri B . R . Dewed 


Part II - SE¢. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1956 


1791 


Serial No. 


Name of the persons appointed 


88 Shri Radha Krishan 
89 Shri A . B , Lal 
90 Shri N . Singh Bawa 

Shri P , N . Srth 

Shri Pritam Singh 
0 ; Shri Amar Singh 

Shri R . K , Kapoor 
Shri N , K . Sharna 

Shri K . L . Sachdeva 
97 Shri A , K . Paul Chaudhry 
98 Shri Sateshwar Dayal Galgotia 
99 Shri K . B . Chuudhry 
100 Shri M . P . Misra 
101 Shri Santokh Singh Uppal 
TO2 Shri M , M , Lal 
103 Shri Om Purkash Chowdaty 
104 Shri Lal Chand Mehra 
το5 Shri Gurbachan Singh 
106 Shri Shri Ganesh Dus Kaira 
107 Shri Ani Rani 
108 Shri Dev Raj Khanna 
109 Shri Hanuman Prashad Pandey 
IIO Shri S . L . Mahindroo 
III Shri Rattan Lal Sablok 
112 Shri Satish Chandra 
113 Shri Dev Datia Purie 
IJ4 Shri N . B . Gorwani 
115 Shri Iqbal Singh Nakai 
116 Shri H . L . Narang 
117 Shri Uma Shanker Shrivastava 
TI8 Sliri B . M , Talgeri 
119 Shri Amar Nath Kapuria 
120 Shri Pakhar Ram Ahir 
12 Shri Sangat Singh 
122 Shri Udho Ram 
123 Shri Davlar Ram 
124 Shri Dalip Singh 
T25 Shri Juj Ram Nim 
126 Shri Chet Ram Nim 
127 Shri Raunqui Ram 
128 Shri Baldev Raj Bansal 
129 Shri Dalip Singh Suri 
136 Shri H . B . Singh 

Shri Ram Parshad 
I32 Suri Ram Gopal Agnibhoj 
133 Shri K . M , Kamble 

Shri E . P . Joromy 
135 Shri B . L . Juncja 
136 Shri M . N . Chaturycdi 

Shri Manmohan Lal Bhatia 
138 Shri Ram Prakash Puri 
139 Shri B , M , Lakshmipatiah 
140 Shri S . D . Migra 
141 Shri R . N . Mathur 
142 Shri H . S . Khurana 
143 Shri Gurhachan Singh Nagra 
144 Shri M . Ziauddin 
145 Shri K . C . Shahare 
146 Shri P . L . Soni 
147 Shri Gokal Ram 
148 Shri Nirmalendu Bhattacharhea 
149 Shri H . L . Malhotra 
150 Shri K , K , Varna 
ISI Shri S . A . Kaptan 
I52 Shri Gian Chand Mehta 
153 Shri P . D . Soli 
154 Shri D , S . Jain 
155 Shri Harish Chand 


NNNN 


wNNN 


inn 


1792 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


( PART II — SEC. 3 


Şerial No. 


Names of the persons appointed 


unui 


156 Shri V , N , Khusla 
157 Shri D . S , Sharda 
158 Shri J. C . Ahluwalja 
159 Shri V . K . Mchta 
160 Shri K , L . Anand 
IÓI Shri C . J . Motwani 
162 Shri C . L . Punj 
163 Shri P . H . Jagtiani 
164 Shri M . L , Mehra 
165 Shri K K . Oberoi 
166 Shri Vilait Rai 
167 Miss S . Dhanda 

Shri Jai Parhash Saxena 
169 Shri R . K , Sibbal 

Shri K , K . Gupta 

Shri Tarlok Singli 
172 Shri Madan Lal Mehra 
173 Shri V . D . Bhambani 
174 Shri J , R . Khosla 
175 Shri B . S . Mahara 
176 Shri R . C , Dlingra . 


171 


[No. 3 / 6 / 56 -SII ] 


New Delhi, the 19th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2485 , -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954 ) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Man Mohan Lal 
Mathur as Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officer by or under the said Act , with effect from the date he took 
charge of his office. 

This Ministry s notification of even number dated the 24th September , 1956 is 
hereby cancelled , 

[No. 8 /5 / 56 -S . II.] 


S . R . O . 2436 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Act , 1954 ( 12 of 1954 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri Y . R . Ahuja as Settlement Officer for the pur 
pose of performing the functions assigned to such officer by or under the Sind 
Act with effect from the date he was transferred to the office of the Chief Settle 
ment Commissioner , The Central Government also appoints the said Shri Ahuja 
as Additional Settlement Commissioner for the purposc of performing the 
functions assigned to such commissioner by or under the said Act 

[No. 6 / 5 / 56 - S . II ( I). ] 


S .R . O . 2437.-- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(No. 44 of 1954 ) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Lachman Das 
Jawa, as Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officer by or under the said Act , with cffect from the date he took charg: 
of his office , 

[No. 3 / 15 /56 - SII.) 


S . R . O . 2438. - In cxercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Jagannath Prasad an 
Assistant Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took 
charge of his post. 

[ No . 7/ 26 /56- SII ( Pt. II).] 


PART 11-- Sok . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27,. 1986 


1793 


S . R . O . 2439 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Trilok Nath Bhalla , 
an Assistant Settlement Officer , for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he 
took charge of his post . 

[ No . 7 / 26 / 56 -SII / (Pt. II ).] 


S . R . O . 2440 . - In cxercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri G . S . Masand , an 
Assistant Settlement Officer , for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officer by or under the said Act , with cffect from the date he took 
charge of his post. 

[ No . 7 /26 /56 - SII ( Pt. II). ] 


New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2441. - In exercisc of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
vion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri R , K . Atal, an Assis 
tant Settlement Officer , for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to 
such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge 
of his post , 

[No. 7 / 26 /56- SII ( Pt. II) . ] 
MANMOHAN KISHAN , Under Secy . 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONAL AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the 19th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2442 , - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Delhi 
( Control of Building Operations ) Act, 1955 (No. 53 of 1955 ) , the Delhi Develop 
ment Provisional Authority , New Delhi, hereby directs that the powers cxercisable 
by it under sections 6 and 7 regarding the grant or refusal of permission to erect 
any building , and powers under sections 8 , 10 and 12 of the said Act, may also 
be excrcised by the New Delhi Municipal Committee , New Delhi, in respect of 
the colony known as Defence Colony . 

[No. F . 1 ( 147) /56 - Admn . 1 
G . MUKHARJI, Member -Secy . 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

(Railway Board ) 

New Delhi, the 12th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2443 . — In cxercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Indian 
Railways Act, 1890 ( 8 of 1890 ) , read with the notification of the Government of 
Indiu in the late Department of Commerce and Industry No. 801 dated the 24th 
March , 1905 , the Railway Board hereby makes the following further amendments 
in the General Rules for all open lines of Railways in India administered by the 
Government published with the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Railway Department ( Railway Board ) No. 1078 - T dated the 9th March , 1929, 
namely : - - 

In the Schedule annexed to Part III of the said Rules, in item ( 1) of the 
entries in column 3 , against scrial No, 57, 
( i ) after the words " wicker basket with vertical rides and conical top " , the 

words " or in a well made strong wooden box or metal casc " shall 

be inserted ; 
( ii ) after the words " through the top of the basket" , the words " or the lid 
of the box ” shall be inserted . 

[ No. 1506 - TG /II/56.) 


1794 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


[PART II — SEC. 3 


New Delhi, the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2444 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Indian . 
Railways Act , 1890 ( 9 of 1890 ) and by the Notification of the Government of India 
in the late Department of Commerce and Industry No. 801 , dated the 24th March 
1905, the Railway Board hereby makes he following further amendment in the 
General Rulos for all open lines of Railways in India administered by the Govern 
ment published with the Notification of the Government of India in the late 
Railway Department ( Railway Board ) No. 1078 - T , dated 9th March 1929 , 
namely : - - 

In the Schedule annexed to part III of the said rules, against Serial No. 11 
in column 2 , under the heading " Inflammable liquids Group B - Petroleum and 
other hydrocarbon oils, non - dangerous" , after the entry " Pine Oil" , the following 
entry shall be inserted namely : - 
" Pentachlorophenol dissolved in selected petroleum oils " . 

[No. 1505- TG / II / 56 .) 


New Delhi, the 20th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2445. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Indian , 
Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890 ) and hy the notification of the Government of India 
in the late Department of Commerce and Industry No . 801, dated the 24th March , 
1905 , the Railway Board hereby makes the following amendment in the General 
Rules for all open lines of railways in India administered by the Government, 
published with the notification of the Government of India in the late Railway 
Department (Railway Board ) No. 1078 - T , dated the 9th March 1929 , namely : 
In the Schcdule appcnded to part III of the said Rules, in column 4 , against 

Serial No. 19, after the words " with Kaslin (China clay and Sodium 
Silicute ) " in item ( iii ) the word " or shall be inserted and after item 

(ili) as so amended , the following item shall be inserted , namely : 
" (iv ) with a composition containing sand and sulphur in equal parts by 
weight." 

[ No. 1375 - TG . ) 


New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2446 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 72- A of the 
Indian Railways Act, 1890 ( 9 of 1890 ) , and in supcrsession of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Railways (Railway Board ) No. 402 - TG 
dated the 13th February , 1956 , the Central Government hereby approves the 
form of forwarding note for explosives prescribed by all railway administrations 
as shown in the enclosure. 


Formarding Note for Explosites tenderal by Defence Services 
(Approved by the Central Government for use on all Railways under section 72 - A of the Indian Railways Act of 1890 ) 
Το 

The Station Master . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . Railway . .... . .. . . . . . Station . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Railway. 

Please recive the under -mentioned consignment and forward by Goods and or Mixed train * /Coaching and or Mixed train * to . . . . . . . 
Station on the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Railway as consigned helow : 
By whom consigned 

To whom consigned 

No. of Description & Sender s Freight 

Station to articles private marks weight paid to pay 
Name 

Address Name Address 

Mids. Srs. 


PaltrII-Sec.3] 


I do hereby certify that I have satisfied myself that the description ,marks and weight or quantity of goods consigned by me have been correctly 
entered in this Forwarding Note . 

I certify that the goods entered in the Forwarding Note have been packed in approved service packages. 

Certified that the nominal package s used for packing of the stores items detailed in the forwarding Note is : are suitable for their packing. The 
packing has been done satisfactorily so as to avoid any damage and leakage of the explosive store during transit and that the explosive so packed is fit 
and safe for transport by rail. 

Certified that the explosives tendered in this Forwarding Note are declared safe for transport. 

I further declare that I accept responsibility for any consequences to the property of the aforesaid Railway Administration , or to the property 
of other persons, entrusted or to be entrusted to the Railway Administration for conveyance , or otherwise , which may be caused by the explosion , or 
otherwise by the said consignment , and that all risk and responsibility whether to the Railway Administration , to their servants or agents or to others, 
retain solely and entirely with me. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,OCTOBER27,1956 


( 1) Alternative railway risk and owners risk rates being available , I elect to pay the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . rate. 
ti2 ) To be forwarded oia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( a dearer route * ) at my request. 
+ 3 ) The cheapest route being closed * partially closed , to be charged dia , . . . . . . . . . . . . . the next cheapest open route . 

4 ) I declare that these packages contain . . . . . . . . . . . . of a value of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . enumerated in the Second Schedule to the Indian Railways 
Act IX of 1890 . I engage * do not engage * to pay the percentage charge on value for increased risk as required by the Administration . Description , 
contents, and value of excepto i articles in cach package should be specifically mentioned . ) 


* Strike out where inapplicable . 
Strike out any clause inapplicable before signing this form . 

Signature of sender or his agent . . . . . . 

Dated . . . . . . . . . . . . 195 , Address . . . . . . . . 
NOTE : -- Additions or alterations made in the above entries must be signed (not initialled ) by the sender or his agent. 


1795 


1796 


. . . . . . date 
. . . . . . dated 

. . . . . . date . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . datert 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . - 195 


hui 


. . . . . . . . . . . . 19S 


( The form below to be filled in by the Railway staff) 

Forwarding Note No . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .dated . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Particulars of weighment 

Checked by . 
Weighied by 

Loaded by . . 
Weight 

Invoiced by . . . . . . 
| Description | Maunds 

Srs . 

Risk 
To be carried pia . . . 
To be charged pia . . , 


No. of 
articles 


No. of 

Actual Weight Rate per Paid To- pay 
Descrip - l articles Marks Weight charged Class maund 
tion 

Mds Srs Mds Srs Rs. As. Rs. As. | Rs . As. 


Receipt No. 


Invoice Particulars of wagons . 

No. & type Owning C . C . 
No. Date 

Railway 


Floor area 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,OCTOBER27,1956 


Explanatory Notes 
( 1) When alternative railway risk and owner s risk rates are quoted , the latter will apply unless the sender, in Clause (1) overleaf, en ers the 
words " Railway risks when he will pay or engage torpay the higher charge and will receive a certificate to this effect . 

(2 ) When a consignment is to be forwarded via other than the shortest route at the sender s request , the route by which the consignment is to be 
forwarded must be recorded in Clause ( 2 ) overleaf. 

(3 ) When a consignment is to be charged via the next cheapest open route , the cheapest route being closed , or partially closed , the route by which 
the consignment is to be charged must be recorded in clause ( 3 ) overlaf . 

(4 ) Railways are not responsible for any loss , destruction or det : siuration of or damage to a parcel or package containing anyar icle ( s ) 
specified in the Second Schedule to the Indian Rilways Act IX of 1890 whose value exceeds Rs. 300/ - per parcel or package unless the contents 
and value ar : declared and engagement entered into to pay the authorised percentage on value charg - , if requirest. The declaration of contents and 
value must be made in clause ( 4 ) overlead and the word ngage" or words do agt engige" struck out according to whether the consign 
ment is to be booked by the Railway with bailee s responsibility or otherwise . The Administration bereby give notice that payment of percentage of 
Falue charge is required . 
Note : - All clauses and words which are in applicable are to b : struck out before the Forwarding Note is signed . 

[No. 402 - TG . ) 
D , C . BAIJAL , Secy . 


[PARTII-SEC.3 


"PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


" TOBER 27, 1956 


1797 


- 


MINISTRY OF FINANC . 

New Delhi, the 22nd October 19 . 5 
S . R . O . 2447. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause ( 5 ) of Article 148 of the Constitution , the President, after consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India hereby makes the following 
rules, namely : 

1. Short title and commencement. - ( i ) Thesc rules may be called the Central 
Civil Services (Audit and Accounts Department Transferred Employees ) Rules, 
1956 . 

( ii ) These rules shall be deemed to have come into force , in respect of each 
transferred employee , on the date on which such employee was actually taken 
over. 


2 . Definitions: - - In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:-- 

( a ) Government means the Government of India ; 
( b ) relevant date means the date on which a transferred employee was 

actually taken over by the Government; 
( c ) State with its grammatical variations means a Part C State or a State 

merged with a Part A State ; 
( d ) “ State rules in relation to an employce mean the rules and orders 

relating to the conditions of service of that employee in force on 
the day immediately preceding the day on which he was actually 

taken over ; and 
( e ) transferred employee with its grammatical variations means a person 

who was employed under the Government of a Part C State or of a 
State merged with a Part A State and who has been taken over by 
thc Central Government in the Indian Audit and Accounts Depart 
ment, in consequence of constitutional changes and the extension of 

the executive authority of the Central Government to that State . 
3 . Persons to whom rules apply . These rules shall apply to transferred 
employees in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department other than those 
specified below : 

( a ) employees engaged on contract ; 
(b ) employecs not in whole - time employment ; and 

( c ) employees paid out of contingencies. 
4 . Absorption in an appropriate grade under the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department. - A trunsferred cmployce shall be fitted into the appropriate grade 
in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department with effect from the relevant date 
in accordance with the orders issued by the Government in that behalf and any 
such employce who is not so absorbed shall continue to be governed by the State 
rules : 

Provided that any modifications in the State Rules after the relevant date 
shall be subject to the specific orders of the Government, 

5 . Election between Stato Rules and Central Rules. - ( 1 ) A transferred 
employee who held a permanent post in a substantive capacity immediately 
before the relevant date shall on absorption in the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department edect on or before a date to be specificd in this behalf by the Goy 
ernment whether he shall be governed by the State rules or the Central rules ; 
( i) provided that the election shall be in favour of the Statc rules or the 

Central rulcs as a whole and not merely any part or parts thereof ; 
(ii ) made in writing in such form as may be prescribed by Government: 
Provided further that the right to elect shall not extend to administrative 

matters such as applicability of Government Servants Conduct 
Rules , Civil Services ( Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules, 

hours of work , holidays and transfer . 
( 2 ) Subject to such special orders as the Government may issue in this behalf , 
an election once made shall , except to the extent specified in rule 7, be final 

( 3 ) The instructions contained in the Comptroller and Auditor General s 
letter No. 135 - States / 159- A /52, dated 30th August 1952 , shall apply to every 
election under this rule . 


1798 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


[PART II - Sec. 3 


( 4 ) A transferred employee who fails to exercise the right of election on or 
before the date specified by the Government under sub - rule ( 1 ) Or who , in the 
opinion of the Government, has exercised the right in an ambiguous manner 
shall be treated as having elected to be governed by the Central rules . 

15 ) A transferred employee who before the publication of these rules , hag . 
retired from service shall also be eligible to cxercise the opinion , provided that 
he was in service on the relevant diate . 

6 . Initial pay. A transferred employce who elects the Central rules shall have 
his inltial pay Axed in the appropriate grades or post on the Central scales of 
pay in accordance with the orders issued by the Government in that behalf. 
Explanation . - - Central scales of pay mean the Prescribed scales specified 

in the Central Civil Services (Revision of pay ) Rules, 1947. 
7 . Duration of applicability of State rules . - A transferred employee who elects 
to be governed by the State rules in accordance with rule 5 shall continue to be 
governed by those rules ; 

Provided that , subject to the next succeeding proviso , and subject also to the 
provisions of the Government of India , Ministry of Finance , letters of even No . F . 
16 ( 92 ) A ( A ) /53 , dated the 4th March 1954 and the 28th May 1954, where appli 
cable, such an einployee on promotion to a higher post shall be brought on to 
the Central rules tinally and his pay in the higher post shall be fixed under the 
Fundamental Rules , his substantive puy drawn under the State rules on the date 
of promotion belng taken as the substantive pay for such purpose : 

Provided further that such an employec may , if he so desires, on promotion 
elect to be goycrned by the State rules as applicable to the post held by him on 
the relevant date and an election so made shall be trcated as final for so long 
as he continues to hold the post to which he has been promoted or an equivalent 
post, 

8 . Leave and Pension . - ( 1 ) A transferred employee who elects to be governed 
by the Central rules shall be subject to the Revised Leave Rules, 1933 as amended 
from time to time. The leave to be carried forward on the relevant date and the 
manner in which leave taken during the pre - absorption period shall count for 
pension , shall be determined in accordance with the orders issued in the Ministry 
of Finance O .M . No . F . 14 ( 4 ) Est. III / 53 - 1 , dated the 13th July , 1953, and No . 
F .7 ( 124 ) EV /53 , dated the 27th March 1954 , respectively , as amended from time 
to time, 


(3 ) A transferred cmployee who elects to be governed by the Central rules 
and who retires before the 17th April 1950 , shall be subject to the Pension Rules 
in the Civil Service Regulations as on the 16th April 1950 , as for post 1938 
entrants . Such an employee retiring on or after the 17th April 1950 , shall be 
subject to the Revised Pension Rules published in the Ministry of Finance 
O . M . No . F . 3 ( 1 ) Est. ( Spl. ) / 47, dated the 17th April 1950, as applicable to post 
1938 entrants , as amended from time to time. All the permanent or temporary 
service rendered by the transferred employee under the State Government prior 
to absorption shall be trcated as permanent or temporary service rendered under 
the Government: 


Provided that a transferred employee who was subscribing to a Contributory 
Provident Fund shall be brought on to pensionable service under Goyernment 
and thereafter, he shall not be allowed to subscribe to the Contributory Provi 
dent Fund . The extent to wliich the past service of such a transferred employee 
shall count towards pension shall be determined with reference to the orders 
contained in the Ministry of Finance O . M . No . F . 7 ( 47 ) EV / 54 , dated the 17th July 
1954, as amended from time to time. 
Explanation . For the purposes of this sub -rule, the expression “All the 

permanent or temporary service rendered by the transferred em 
ployee under the State Government prior to absorption shall mean 
the total length of service , whether permanent or temporary , ren 
dered by a transferred employee in any Acceding State , a Part C 

State or a Part A State , prior to the date of such absorption . 
( 3 ) A transferred employee who elects to be governed by the Central rules 
and who relires before the 17th April, 1950 , shall be eligible for the benefits of 
commutation of pension under the Civil Pensions ( Commutation ) Rules , Such 
an employee retiring on or after the 17th April 1950 , shall be eligible to the 
benefits of commutation of pension under the Civil Pension (Commutation ) Rules 


Part II - SEC, 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1958 

1799 " 
= - = - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - = = - = = 

= = 
read with the revised Pension Rules promulgated in the Ministry of Finance 
O . M . No. F , 3 ( 1 ) Est. ( Spl) / 47 , dated the 17th April 1950 , as amended from time 
to times 

( 4 ) For the purposes of determining the age of retirement for ministerial 
Government servants , the provisions of Fundamental Rule 56 ( b ) ( ii ) shall apply . 

( No. F . 12 ( 11 ) - Est.III / 56 - I } 
K . S . GANAPATI, Dy . Secy . 


( Department of Economic Affairs ) 
(Office of the Controller of Capital Issues ) 

New Delhi, the 19th October 1958 
S . R . O . 2448 . - For Rule 4 of the Capital Issues ( Application for Consent) Rules , 
1954 published in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , dated tho 13th March , 
1954 as S . R . O ., 828 dated the 9th March , 1954 the following shall be substituted , 
namely : - - 

Every application under these rules shall be accompanied by a Treasury 

receipt for Rs. 50 which shall , at Bombay , Calcutta , Delhi, Madras 
ang Bangalore , be deposited in the Reserve Bank of India and at 
other places in the nearest Government Treasury or in the nearest 
Branch of an agency of the Reserve Bank . The amount shall be 
credited to the head “ XLVI- Miscellaneous - Miscellaneous" . 

[No. F .2 ( 18 ) - CCI/ 56 — 7541. ] 
M . A . BHIDE , Controller of Capital Issues . 


( Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 1917 October 1956 
S . R . O . 2449. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 ( 10) of 1919 ), the Central Government, on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions of section 
ll of the said Act shal) rot lie applicable to banking companies till the expiry 
of the 31st day of October 1957 , in so far as the said section would , by reason 
only of the territorial changes and formation of new States under the provisions 
of the States Rourganisation Act, 1956 ( 37 of 1956 ), require such banking com 
panics to have paid -up capital and reserves of an aggregate value which is higher 
than the aggregate value of paid - up capital and reserves which they are required 
to have under the said section on the 31st day of October 1956 . 

INo. 4 ( 145 )-F . 1 /56.] 


New Delhi, the 22nd October , 1956 
S . R . O . 2450 . - - In pursuance of section 51 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 
( itt of 1949 ) , the Central Government hereby notifies the State Bank of Hydera 
bud for the purpose of the said section , 

(No. F . 7 (50 ) - FI /RO / 56 .] 


CORRIGENDUM 
S . R . O . 2451. - In the Hyderabad State Bank (Compensation ) Rules 1950 
published with S . R . O . No. 2274 in Part II Section 3 of the Gazette of India Extra 
ordinary dated the 4th October , 1956 , the following corrections are to be made: - 
( 1 ) On page 2027 , for the semi- colon (; ) at the end of rule 2 ( d ) substitute 

a full stop (. ) . 
( 2 ) On page 2028 , in rule 5 , line 2 , for Excutor read Executor . 
( 3 ) On page 2029 , in puragraph 2 , line 3 , of form A of the Schedule , for 

the words I /we lead I /Wc and close the brackets after the words 
Signature ( s ) of the shareholder ( s ) . 


1800 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1966 [PART II - SEC. 3 
= = = = = = = = 

= = = 

= = 
(4 ) On page 2030 , in item 7 for the word applicant read application . 
( 5 ) On page 2031 in paragraph 1 of form C of the Schedule , insert an 

asterisk ( * ) against I /We . In the foot- note to this form for the 
two plus signs ( $ ) substitute two asterisks ( * * ) . 

[No. F . 7 (41 )- FI/ RO /56 .] 
K , P . BISWAS, Under Secy . 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 20th October, 1956 
S . R . O . 2452 .-- - In exercise of the powers conferred by Item No. 17 of the 
Schedule to the Bengal Finance ( Sales Tax ) Act, 1941 ( Bengal Act VI of 1941) , 
As extended to the State of Delhi, the Central Government hereby specifles octh 
of the following description for the purposes of the said itemi 
" Handloom cloth costing less than one rupee per yard " . 

[No. 6 ( 13 ) - P (ST ) /56 .] 


S . R . O . 2483 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
6 of the Bengal Finance ( Sales Tax ) Act 1941 ( Bengal Act VI of 1941) , as extend 
ed to the State of Delhi, the Central Government hereby gives three months 
notice of its intention to make the following amcidments in the Schedule to 
the said Act, namely : - - 


In the sald Schedule 
1 . For item 9 , the following item shall be substituted namely : 
" 9 Gur, molasses and sugar excluding mill made sugar " , 
2. For item 15 , the following shall be substituted namely : - - 
“ 15 Edible oils pressed on Ghanis ." 
3 . For item 23 , the following item shall be substituted namely : 
“ 23 White printing paper , cream -laid paper and newsprint." 
4 . Item 40 shall be omitted , 
5 . After item 44 , the following items shall be inserted namely : 
» 45 . ( i) Crudcly tanned Icather. 

When manufacturat ( i) without the 

use of power , und (ii) at a place 
( ii ) Country made shoes ( Juties) . 

other than a factory as defined 

under the Factories Act and sold 
(iii ) Hand made utensils. 

either by maker himsell or any 
( iv ) Cane and bamboo handicrafts . 

member of his family or by 4 co 

operative society of inakers of such 
( v ) Earthenwares made by Kumhars. 

articles, 
46 . Achar and murrabba except when sold in sealed containers. 
47 . Charkha, takli and charkha accessories . 
48 . Black ink , slate , slate pencils and tahkties. 
49. Betel lcaves ." 

[ No. 6 ( 13 ) - P (ST ) / 56 . ) 
K . PALCHAUDHURI, Dy. Secy. 


( Department of Economic Affairs ) 


New Delhi the 27th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2464. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
20 of the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934 (II of 1934) , and on the recommendation 
of the Central Board of the Reserve Bank of India , the Central Government hereby 


PART 1f - Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1936 


1801 


makes the fullowing amendment in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Finance No, F . 4 ( 56 ) - F III / 55 , dated the 28th April, 1956 , namely : 
In the said notification for the words " six months” , the words “ lwelve 
months" shall be substituted . 

[NO, F . 4 (56 )- F , III / 55 .) 
PREM NARAIN , Under Secy . 


( Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd October , 1956 
S .R . O . 2455 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules , namely : 

1 . Short title and commencement. - ( i) These rules may be called the Central 
civil services ( transferred Employees ) Rules, 1956 . 

( ii) These rules shall be deemed to have come into force in respect of each 
transferred employee , on the date on which such employee was actually taken 
over, 
2 . Definitions. - In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires: 

( a ) Government means the Government of India ; 
( b ) relevant date means the date on which a trnsferred employee was 

actually taken over by the Government; 
( c ) State with its grammatical variations means a Part C State or a State 

merged with a Part A State ; 
( d ) State Rules in relation to an employee mean the rules and orders 

relating to the conditions of seryice of that employee in force on 
the day immediately preceding the date on which he was actually 

taken over ; and 
( e ) transferred employee means a person who was employed under the 

Government of a Part C State or of a State merged with a Part A 
State and who has been taken over by the Central Government in 
Departments other than the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
in consequence of constitutional changes and the extension of the 

executive authority of the Central Government to that State . 
3 . Persons to whom rules apply . These rules shall apply to transferred 
employees other than those specified in rule 7 . 

4 . Absorption in an appropriate grade under Government. - A transferred 
employce shall be fitted into the appropriate grade under the Government with 
effect from the relevant date in accordance with the orders issued by the Govern 
ment in that behalf and any such employee who is not so absorbed shall continue 
to be governed by the State rules : 

Provided that any modifications in the State Rules after the relevant date 
shall be subject to the specific orders of the Government. 

5 . Initial pay . A transferred employee shall have his initial pay fixed in the 
appropriate grade or post on the Central scales of pay in accordance with the 
orders issued by the Government in that behalf . 
Explanation .. . Central scales of pay mean the "Prescribed scales spccified 

in the Central Civil Services (Revision of Pay ) Rules, 1947. 
6 . Leave and Pension . - ( 1 ) A transferred employee shall be subject to the 
Revised Leave Rules , 1933 , as amended from time to time. The leave to be 
carried forward on the relevant date and the manner in which leave taken during 
the pre - absorption period shall count for pension , shall be determined in accord 
ance with the orders issued in the Ministry of Finance Office Memorandum 
No. F .14 ( 4 ) - Est .III /53 - 1, dated the 13th July , 1953 , and No. F . 7 ( 124 ) - E . V /53, 
dated the 27th March , 1954 , respectively , as amended from time to time. 

( 2 ) A transferred employee who retires before the 17th April, 1950 , shall be 
subjcct to the Pension Rules in the Civil Scrvice Regulations as on the 16th April, 
1950, as for post - 1938 entrants. Such an employee retiring on or after the 17th 
April, 1950, shall be subject to the Revised Pension Rules published in the 
Ministry of Finance Office mcmorundum No. F . 3 ( 1 ) - Est (Spl) / 47, dated the 
17th April, 1950 , as applicable to post - 1938 entrants , as amended from time to 


1802 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


( PART II -- Sec . 3 


time. All the permanent or temporary service rendered by the transferred 
employee under the State Governrnrnt prior to absorption shall be treated as 
permanent or temporary service rendered under the Government: 


Provided that a transferred cmployee who was subscribing to a Contributory 
Provident Fund shall be brought on to pensionable service under Government 
and thereafter , he shall not be allowed to subscribe to the Contributory Provident 
Fund . The extent to which the past se vice of such a transferred employee shall 
count towards pension shall be determined with reference to the orders contained 
in the Ministry of Finance Office Memorandum No. F . 7 ( 47 ) - E . V /54, dated the 17th 
July , 1954 , as amended from time to time. 


Explanation . For the purposes of this sub - rule , the expression All the 

permanent or temporary service rendered by the transferred em 
ployee under the State Government prior to absorption shall mean 
the total length of service , whether permanent or temporary , 
rendered by a transfe : red employee in any Acceding State , a Part 
C State or a Part A State , prior to the date of such absorption . 


( 3 ) A transferred employee who retires before the 17th April, 1950 , shall be 
eligible for the benefits of commutation of pension under the Civil Pensions 
(Commutation ) Rules, Such an employee retiring on or after the 17th April 
1950 , shall be eligible to the benefits of commutation of pension under the Civil 
Pension (Commutation ) Rules read with the reviscd Pension Rules promulgated 
in the Ministry of Finance Office Memorandum No. F 3 ( 1 ) - Est . (Spl) / 47 , dated the 
17th April, 1950 , as amended from time to time. 


( 4 ) For the purpose of determining the age of retirement for ministerial Gov 
ernment servants , the provisions of Fundamental Rule 56 ( b ) ( ii ) shall apply . 


7 . Saving .-- These rules shall not apply to 

(a ) employees in Railways ; 
( b ) employees paid from the Defence Services Estimates ; 
( c) employees engaged on contract; 
(d ) employees not in whole- time employment; 
( e ) employees paid out of contingencies ; and 
( f) employees absorbed in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department. 

[ No . F .12 ( 11) - Est.III/ 56 -II. ] 
K . S . GANAPATI, Dy. Secy . 


- 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 

Central Office 

Bombay , the 10th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2456 , In pursuance of the notification of the Government of India in 
the Finance Department No. 12 ( 13 ) - FI/ 47 dated the 25th March , 1947, the Reserve 
Bank hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made in the 
schedule to the notification of the Reserve Bank of India No. F . E . R . A . 10 / 47 - R . B . 
dated the 25th March , 1947 , namely : 
In the said Schedule 

( a ) the entry “Hyderabad State Bank ” shall be omitted. 
( b ) after the entry " Punjab National Bank Ltd .” the entry " State Bank of 

Hyderabad" shall be inserted. 


[No. F .E .R .A . 144 /56 - R .B .] 
AMBEGAOKAR , Dy. Governor, 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


"PART JI - SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 1803 
= -- - - 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE ( Department of Revenue ) 

DANGEROUS DRUGS 

New Delhi, the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2457, -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 2 ) and (3 ) 
of section 5 of the Dangerous Drugs Act . 1930 ( 2 of 1930 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendnients in the Central Opium Rules , 
1934 , the same having been previously published as required by sub -section ( 1 ) 
of section 38 of the said Act , namely : — 

In the suid rules : 

1. In clause (a ) of rule ? und in rule 3 the words " Himachal Pradesh and 
Bilaspur" occurring after the word " Rajasthan " shall be omitted and after the 
words " Madhya Bharat” , the word " and" shall be inserted ; 
2 . for rule 5 the following rule shall be substituted , namely : 
" 5 . Opium shall not bc manufactured unywhere in any State to which 

these rules apply save in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Bharat : 
Provided that with the special permission of the Central Government, 
opium purchased from the Government Factories at Ghazipur and 
Neemuch may be re -manulactured by or on behalf of a State Gov 

ernment in the form of tablets or pills for sale as excise opium ; 
Provided further that opium mixtures may be manufactured from raw 

opium lawfully possessed by persons authorized by the State Gov 

ernment under their rules made for the purpose ; 
Provided further that confiscated and damaged oplum may be re -modelled 

by or on behalf of a State Government with a view to making it fit 
for cxcise purposes, subject to the condition that the remodelled 

opium shall be in a form enabling it to be distinguished from the 
excise opium issued from the Government Factories at Ghazipur 

and Neeniuch " . 
3 . In rulc 6 – 
1a ) In item (i), after the words " at Ghazipur" , the word " and" shall be 

inserted ; 
(b ) Items ( iii) and ( iv ) shall be omitted ; 

4 . In rules 7 and 8 , the words " and Kotah " pccurring after the word " Neemuch " 
shall be omitted , and after the word " Ghazipur" , the word " and " shall be inserted , 

[ No. 3 .] 


CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 27th October 1956 
S .R . O . 2458. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ( 1 of 1944 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , namely : - 
In rule 210 of the said Rules , after the words, 
" Where no other penalty is provided herein " , the words " or in the Act" shall 
be inserted 

[No. 16 -CER / 56. ] 
B . D . DESHMUKH , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 20th October, 1956 
S . R . O . 2459 , - - In pursuance of Clause ( b ) of sub rule ( 11) of rule 2 of the 
Appellate Tr. Yunal Rules , 1946 , the Central Government has been pleased to 
appoint Shri K . B . Bhatnagar , Income- tax Officer , as Authorised Representative 
from the 27th September 1956 afternoon to appear , plead and act for any 
Income - tax authority , who is a party to any proceedings beforc the Income - tax 
Appellate Tribunal. 

[No. 122 .] 
P . N . DAS GUPTA , Dy . Secy . 


1804 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1958 


[ PART II- SEC. 3: 


- 


- 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

LAND CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 20th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2460. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Land 
Customs Act, 1924 ( 19 of 1924 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes . 
the following further amendment in its notification , No. 22 -Customs, dated the 
2nd February, 1952, namely : 

In the schedule to the said notification , under the heading " C - Land Customs, 
areas under the jurisdiction of the Collector of Land Customs, Calcutta " and 
the sub -heading 24 - Parganas District , after the entry "Ghojadanga" , the 
following entry shall be inserted , namely : 


Budge Budge 


( a ) Budge Budge . Sealdah - Darsadra 

Railway line passing through . 

Banpur Railway Station . 
(b ) Budge Budge - Sealdah - Khulna 

Railway line passing through . 

Bongaon Railway Station . 
( c ) The inland waterway from Budge 

Budge to East Pakistan via . 
Beharikhal" , 


[No. 91.] 


S . R . O . 2461,-- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section . 
3 of the Land Customs Act , 1924 ( 19 of 1924 ), read with the notification of the 
Government of India in the late Finance Department (Central Revenues ) , 
No. 5944 , dated the 13th December 1924, the Central Board of Revenuc hereby 
makes the following amendment in its notification No. 134 - Customs, dated the 27th . 
August, 1955 , namely : 
" In the Schedule to the said notification , for the words " in the border dis 

tricts of Jodhpur and Bikaner , Rajasthan State" , the words " in the 
districts of Barmar, Bikaner , Ganganagar , Jaisalmer and Talore in 
the State of Rajasthan " shall be substituted " . 

[No. 92 ] 


LAND CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 27th October 1956 
S . R . O ., 2462 . - In exercise of thc powers conferred by section 4 of the Land 
Customs Act, 1924 ( 19 of 1924 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the 
following further amendments in its notification No . 22 -Customs, dated the 2nd 
February , 1952, namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification under the heading " C - Land 
Customs areas under the jurisdiction of the Collector of Land Customs, Calcutta " 
the following items and all entries relating thereto shall be omitted , namely : 
(i) under the sub - heading " MURSHIDABAD DISTRICT" , the items : 

" Dhulianganges" and " Katlamari” ; 
( 11) under the sub -heading " KRISHNANAGAR DISTRICT , the item . 

" Sikarpur" and " Betai" ; 


( 11 ) under the sub - heading “ 24 PARGANAS DISTRICT the item " Itinda" ; 

[No . 94 . 11 


PART II SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 1805 
- - - - - - = - = - 

- - - - 

- 
CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 20th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2463. - In the Notification of the Central Board of Revenue, No . CER 
175 ( I ) / 56 ( S . R . O . 1988 ) , dated the 1st September 1956 , published in the Gazette 
of India , Part II, Section 3 , dated the 8th September, 195 , for heading in 
column 3 of the Schedule , namely , “ Reviewing Authority " , read " Renewing 
Authority " . 

S. K , BHATTACHARJEE , Secy . 


. - - 


- - 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 16th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2464 . — The following draft of a further amendment in the Coal Mines 
Plt head Bath Rules , 1946 , which the Central Government purposes to make in 
exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( e ) of section 58 of the Mines Act, 1952 
(35 of 1952), is published , as required by sub -Section ( 1) of section 59 of the said 
Act , for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice 18 
hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
31st January , 1957. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specifled will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendment 
In sub -rulo ( 1) of rule 3 , for the word " thereat" , the following words shall be 
substituted , namely : 
" on a suitable site selected by him with the previous approval of the com 
petent authority ." 

( C .M .P .B . / Am (2 ).] 
[ File No. M . 41 (38 ) / 55 .] 


New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2465 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( e ) of section 58 
of the Mines Act , 1952 (35 of 1952) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the Coal Mines pithead Bath Rules, 1946 , the 
same having been previously published as required by sub - section ( 1) of section 59 
of the said Act , namely : — 
In rule 3 of the said Rules : - 
(1) In sub -rule ( 1), for the words " owner of every coal mines shall," the 

following words shall be substituted , namely : 
owner agent or manager of every coal mine shall, within such period as 

may be specified by the competent authority " , 
(ii ) in clause (ill ) of sub - rulc ( 1), after the word owner , the comma and 

words" , agent or manager " shall be inserted . 
( ili ) sub -rule (2 ) shall be Omitted and the existing sub -rule (3 ) shall be re . 

numbered as sub - rule ( 2 ) . 
2 . In sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 7 and sub - rulc (2 ) of rules 8 and 10 , after the word 
* owner , the comma and words" , agent or manager " shall be inserted . 

3 . In sub -rule ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of rule 9 , the words " of the prescribed type" shall be 
Omitted , 

C . M .P .B ./Ad ( 1) . 
[File No. M -41 ( 15 ) 34 . ] 
P , D . COMMAR , Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 16th October 1956 
: S . R . O . 2466 . - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of sub -paragraph ( 1 ) of paragraph 
4 of the Employees Provident Funds Scheme 1952, the Central Government 
hereby nominates Shri A . D . Pande, I. A . S ., Secretary to the Government of 


1806 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 [ PART II — SEC. 3 

S 
Uttar Pradesh , Labour Department, Lucknow , to be the Chairman of the Re 
gional Committee , Employees Provident Fund , vice Shri Radha Kant, I. A . S ., 
who has resigned his Chairmanship and directs that the following amendment 
shall be made in the notification of Government of India , in the Ministry of 
Labour, No, S . R . O . 1357 dated the 15th April 1954, namely : 

In the said notification , for item No. 1, the following item shall be substituted , 
namely :-- - 
" 1. Shri A , D Pande , I. A .S ., Secretary to the Government of Uttar 
Pradesh , Labour Department , Lucknow ." 

[No. P . F . 45 (12 ) /58. ] 


New Delhi, the 20th October , 1956 
S . R . O . 2467 / PWA / 14 / N . 1 / Am . -4 / 56 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 3 ) of section 14 read with section 24 of the Payment of Wages Act , 
1936 ( 4 of 1936 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendments in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, No, S .R .O . 232 , dated the 12th January 1954, namely :-- 
In the said notification -- 
Existing entries 14 to 33 shall be respectively renumbered as 15 to 34 , and 

after 13, the following shall be inserted , namely : 
" 14 . The Conciliation Officer (Central ) , Jharsugada ." 

[No. Fac . 103 ( 26 ) /88 . 1 


New Delhi, the 23rd October 1958 

ERRATA 
S . R . O . 2468, — The following errata to the notifcation of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour No , S . R . O , 2315 , dated the 8th October 1956 , publish 
ed at pages 2039 - - 2062 of part II , Section 3 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary 
dated the 9th October 1956 , 18 published for general information : 
( 1) Clause 4 ( 2 ) — 

In the third line, for " be " read " by " . 
( 2 ) Clause 11 (e ) ( iti) 

In the first line in the word " Attendance" for capital A Substitute small a , 
( 3 ) Clause 12 , 

In the first line, for " consist" read " consists" . 
(4 ) Clause 24 

In the sixth line, for " obdy " read “ Body" . 
(5 ) Clause 31 (2 ) 

In the fourth line, for " preceeding years" read “ preceding year" . 
(6 ) Clause 45 ( 1) (ii ) (b ) 
In the third line , after the word " removed " , add “ from the employers 

register " . 
(7 ) Clause 45 ( 2 ) (b ) 

For " writings " read " writing " , 
(8 ) Clause 53( 2 ) 

For " of" occurring after " gratuſty " read " to " . 
( 9 ) Schedule II 

(1) In the third line, for " preceeding" read " preceding" . 
( il ) In item (a ) , for "men - shifts " read " man - shifts ” . 
(lii ) In Column 3 of the entries below Item (b ) delete the brackets , 

[No. DC - 140 .) 


R . C , SAKSENA , Under Secy.. 


Part II SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


1807 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


New Delhi , the 23rd October 1958 
S . R . O . 2469. — In pursuance of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 86 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby authorises 
all the Regional Directors of the Employces State Insurance Corporation to Institute 
prosecutions or accord previous sanction to prosecutions under the said Act . 

[ F , NO. HI- 1 ( 11 ) / 56 .] 
B . R . KHANNA , Under Sery . 


New Delhi, the 22nd October , 1956 
S . R . O . 2470 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1047 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Hindustan Mercantile Bank Limited , Calcutta and their workmen . 


INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE NO . 1 OF 1956 
In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Hindusthan Mercantile 
Bank Ltd ., Calcutta and their workmen , 

PRESENT 
Shri R . K . Basu — Sole Member . 

Appearances 
For the Company : — Shri S . N . Chowdhary , 
For the Workmen : - Shri Probhat Kar with Shri H . L . Parwana . 


Dated the 27th September, 1966 

AWARD 
Under a Notification No. LR - 100 ( 20 ) / 55 dated 16th June, 1956 , the Govern 
ment of India (Ministry of Labour ) constituted an Industrial Tribunal in exercise 
of the powers conferred by section 7 read with section 10 of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act (XIV of 1947 ) consisting of myself ( R . K , Basu ) as sole member 
thereof for adjudication of an industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Ltd ., Calcutta and their workmen . The 
dispute was in relation to the retrenchment of a workman of the Bank named 
Shri H . N . Bhowmik on and from 12th January , 1955 . In the dispute the work 
man concerned has been represented by the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank 
Employees Union . The Union s contention is that Shri H . N . Bhowmik was wrong 
fully retrenched and that he was entitled to reinstatement with all arrears of 
pay . The Bank has resisted the claim contending inter alia that Shri Bhowmik 
is not a workman and that the Union cannot take up his case . In course of 
conciliation proceedings an agreement was arrived at between the Bank and the 
Union to the following effect ; — 


" Parties to the above industrial dispute have agreed to apply in the pres 

cribed manner jointly for a reference to the dispute to the appropriate 
Government for referring the dispute to the Tribunal under section 
10 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act. The reference to the Tribunal 
will be whether Shri H , N , Bhowmik is a workman and Union can 
take up his case ." 


In connection with the reference parties were notified to submit their respective 
written statements . In the written statement filed by the Union , it has been 
prayed that Shri H , N . Bhowmik be declared a workman and that the Hindusthan 
Mercantile Bank Employees Union is quite competent to represent him and second 
ly that Shri H . N . Bhowmik be reinstated in his original post with continuity 
of service including all privileges regarding Leave, Bonus, Increments, Provident 
Fund , Gratuity etc, and with all arrears of salary and allowances from the date 
of discharge to the date of reinstatement. The Bank in its rejoinder repelled the 
Union s contention and prayed that the Union s demand be dismissed . 


The case is fixed for hearing to day the 27th September 1956 . Both parties 
have appeared , Shri S . N . Roy Chowdhary for the Company and Shri Pravat 
Kar with H . L . Parvana for the Union . Both parties pray that the case be dis 


1808 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


[PART II - SEC. 3 


posed of and an award be made in accordance with the terms of settlement agreed 
between the parties . The memorandum of settlement dated 26th September 1956 
signed by the representatives of the parties has been Aled . The Bank has accepted 
it that Shri H . N , Bhowmik is a workman within the definition of the terms of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. The Bank has further recognised the competency of 
the Union to represent the workman , Shri H . N . Bhowmik and the Bank has 
agreed according to the memorandum of settlement to reinstate Shri H . N . 
Bhowmik in service without any change of status and with continuity of service . 
The Bank has also agreed to pay to Shri Bhowmik compensation for the period 
of unemployment and to accord other benefits as detailed in the memorandum 
of settlement . 

Both parties have prayed that the terms of settlement as recorded to the 
memorandum of settlement be accepted and an award be made on these terms 
making the memorandum of settlement a part of the award , 


I feel convinced that the parties have arrived at settlement as a result of 
mutual discussion and agreement. There is nothing objectionable in the terms 
of settlement. 


In the result, I decide the reference and make an award in terms of memoran 
dum of settlement, which is to form a part of the award . 


Parties are left to bear their own cost. 


R , K . Basu . Sole Member . 

Industrial Tribunal. 


MEMORANDUM OF SETTLEMENT 


PRESENT 


For the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Limited , Head Office, Calcutta . Shri 
H . L . Goswamy. 

For the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Employees Union Calcutta . Shri Prabhat 
Каг. 


1. As a result of the termination of the services of Shri H . N . Bhowmik an 
industrial dispute existed between the management of the Hindusthan Mercantile 
Bank Limited , Calcutta and the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Employee s union , 
Calcutta . The Government of India referred this dispute to Shri R . N . Basu , 
Industrial Tribunal ( Central ) , Calcutta for adjudication . The said dispute is at 
present pending before the Honourable Tribunal for adjudication as reference No. 
1 of 1966 . 


. 2 . After discussions both the parties to the dispute have arrived at the follow 
ing settlement and agree that this memorandum of settlement be filed before 
the Tribunal with a request to award the same accordingly . 


3 . The Bank agrees that: - - 


( a ) Shri H . N . Bhowmik will be reinstated in its services without any 

change in his status and with continuity of services ; treating him 
as a workman within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


( b ) Shri H . N . Bhowmik will be paid the compensation for the unemploy 

ment period i. e . Rs. 185 p . m . for 3 months and 5 days being Rs. 585 - 13 - 9 
( Rupees Five Hundred eighty five annas thirteen and ples three only ) . 


( 0 ) From the date of his reinstatement Shri H . N . Bhowmik will be entitled 

to the benefits of the pay scales and allowance as laid down in the 
award at present in force . The scheme of adjustment of salary will 
apply to him as if he was all along in the seryice of the Bank . 


- 


PAHT FI - SEC . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 1800 

- -- - - - - - - - 
( d ) Shri H . N . Bhowmik will be paid Rs. 80 being the Puja Ex - gratia 

payment for the year 1955 and will be entitled to receive the Ex 

gratia payment for the year 1956 . 
( e ) Shri H . N . Bhowmik is to report for duty by the 16th of October 1956 . 

(Sd .) PRABHAT KAR, 

Representative 
Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Employee Union . 

Calcutta . 
( Sd.) H . L. GoswAMY, 
Chief Accountant, 

Representative 
Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Ltd ., 

Calcutta . 
Calcutta , 26th September , 1956 . 

[ No. LR . 100 ( 20 ) /55.] 
F . M . NATHANIEL , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

ORDER 

New Delhi- 2, the 17th October 1956 
S .R . O . 2471. — The Central Government hereby : - 
( a ) directs , in pursuance of thc provisions of the order of the Government 

of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No . S . R . O . 
3805 , dated the 26th December , 1955 and in modification of Order of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broad 
casting No, S . R . O . 1008 dated the 23rd April, 1956 , that the Advisory 
Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Madras shall consist 

of 33 members with citect from 17th October, 1956 . 
( b ) appoints , after consultation with the Central Board of Filin Censors the 

following persons as members of the Advisory Panel of the said Board 
at Madras with effect from the 17th October , 1956 in exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub - rule (3 ) of rule 9 read with sub - rule ( 1 ) of 

rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules, 1951. 
1. Shri K , P . Adiga . 
2 . Dr. U . Sripathi Rau . 
3. Shri Gopi Nath Aman . 

[NO . 14 / 4 / 56-FC ). ] 
B . S . DASARATHY, Dy . Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NJW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1956 


