M.UI8TEBED No. 1) ZXZ 


tlhe ©alette 




PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


Inbia 


No. 50] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 19, 188a 


Nona 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 80th November, i960. 


Issue No. and date 

No. 


160, 

■ No, l40-lTC(PN)/60, 
November, I960. 

da led 

£ 
c r 

161. 

No. 141-ITC(PN)/G0, 
November, 1960. 

dated 

29 th 


No LlIMTC(PN)/60, 
November, i960. 

dated 

29 th 


No. 143-TTC(PN)/G0, 
November, i960. 

dated 

29th 

162. 

No. 28(1)-T.R,/60, 

dated 

SOLh 


November, 1960. 


limed by 

Afinistry of Commerce and Industry, 

Do. 

Do, 

Do. 

Do. 


Subject 


Import of tobacco from U.S.A. under the 
Agricultural Commodities Agreement 
between the U.S.A, and India. 

Import Policy for Cotton Yam of #• 
Counts and above during October 1900— 
March 1961 period. 

Import policy for Cotton Fabrics during 
October i960— March 1901 period. 

Import policy for certain items for Octo- 
ber 1960— March 1961 period— last date 
for submission of applications. 

Tariff Commission’s Report on the conti- 
nuance of protection to the Plywood 
and Teaclicsts Industry and Government's 
acceptance etc. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will 
Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be submitted 10 ai to 
these Gazette*. 


be supplied on Indent to the Manager of Publications, 
reach the Manager within ten days of the date of Issue of 


CONTENTS 


Paomn 

Part I.— Section i.-« Notifications relating to Non- 
Statutory Rules, Regulations and Orders 
and Resolutions issued hy the Ministries 
of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and 
by the Supreme Court . . , 263 

Part I. — Section 2. — Notifications regarding 

Appointments, Promotions, Leave, etc. 
of Government Officers issu ed by the 
Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) 
and by the Supreme Court . . 755 

Part I.— Section 3 . — Notifications relating to 
Non-Statutory Rules, Regulations, Or- 
ders and Resolutions, issued by the 
Ministry of Defence .... 1 43 

Part I. — Section 4 . — Notification* regarding 

Appointments, Promotions, Leave, etc. 
of Officers, issued by the Ministry of 
Defence . 323 

Part II. — Section i. — A cts, Ordinances and Regu- 
lations ...... Nil 

Part II. — Section 2 . — -Bills and Reports of Select 

Committees on Bills .... Nil 

Part II. — Section 3 . — Sub-Section (i) — General 
Statutory Rules (including orders, bye- 
laws etc. of a general character) issued 
by the Ministries of the Government of 
India (other than the Ministry of Defence) 
and by Central Authorities (other than 
the Administrations of Union Territories) 1823 

Part II — Section 3 . — Sub-Section (11). — Statutory 
Orders and notifications issued by the 
Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) and 
by Central Authorities (other than the 
Administrations of Union Territories) . 3437 


Paois 

Part II— Section 4 . — Statutory Rules and Order* 

notified by the Ministry of Defence . 249 


Part III — Section i .—Notifications issued by the 
Auditor General, Union Public Service 
Commission, Railway Administration, 

High Courts, and the Attached and Sub- 
ordinate Offices of the Government of 
India (Published at Simla) . _ 1893 


Part III — Section 3. — Notifications and Notices 
issued by the Patent Office, Calcutta 
(Published at Simla) . . . . 355 


Part III— Section 3 . — Notifications issued by or 
under the authority of Chief Commii- 
sioner* (Published at Simla) . . 133 

Part III — Section 4 . — Miscellaneous Notifications 
including notifications, orders, advertise- 
ments and notices issued by Statutory 
Bodies (Published at Simla) ... 575 

Part IV — Advertisements and Notices by Private 
individuals and Private bodies ( Published 
at Simla) 283 

Supplement No. 48 — 

Births and deaths from principal diseases In towns 
with a population of 30,000 and over in 
India during week ending I2th Novem- 
ber, • ■ • * 643 


( 263 ) 


264 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 10, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 19, 1882 


[Part I— Sec, I 


PART I— Section 1 

Notifications relating to Non-Statutory Rules, Regulations and Orders and Resolutions issued 
by the Ministries of the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by 

the Sugreme Court 


LOK SABHA SECRETARIAT 

New Delhi , the 26 th November i960 

No. S(l)/60/PAC — Shri Roham Lai Chaturvrdi, a Member 
of Ij>k Sabha lias been duly eleffed to serve as a Member of 
the Committee on Public Account in die causal vacancy 
caused by the death of Shri Feroze Gandhi, for the unexplred 
portion of the term ending on the 30th April, 1961. 

V. SUBRAM ANIAN, Dy. Sccy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD A: AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agriculture) 

(I,C,A.R.) 

New Delhi, the 29th Noifember 1960 

No, 8-151 /60 Com, II.— In exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause 3 (i) of the Resolution of the Government of India 
in the late Ministry of Agriculture No. F.43 11/48- Com. dated 
the 21st May, 1949 (As amended from time to time), the Cen- 
tral Government is pleased to nominate Shri V. Shankar, I.C.S., 
Special Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of 
Food and Agriculture (Department of Agriculture) and Vice- 
President, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, as Presi- 
dent Indian Central Arecanut Committee with effect from the 
17th November, I960 (A.N,) vice l>r. M, S. Randhawa, I.C.S., 
resigned. 

AJUDHIA PRASADA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY of education 

New Delhi t the lri December i960 

SunjKCr .— National Council for Rural Higher Education* 

No. F. 1-1 /GO, U-5,— In partial modification of this Minis- 
try's notification No. F.3-187/59-U-3, dated 24th July, 1959, on 
the subject mentioned above, the following change in the com- 
position of the National Council has been authorised. 

Under para (f), Shri B. N. Jha, Vice-Chancellor, Gorakhpur 
University will in future represent the Inter-lJniversity Board 
of India on the National Council for Rural Higher Education 
in place of Dr. V. S. Krishna. 

Subject.— S tanding Committee of the National Council for 
Rural Higher Education . 

No. F. M/60, U-S.— In partial modification of this Minis- 
try's Notification No. F.2-4/59, U-3, dated the 30th September, 
1969 on the subject mentioned above, the following change has 
been authorised 

Shri 11, N. Jha, Vice-chancellor, Gorakhpur University will 
act a* a member of the Standing Committee in place of 
Dr, V. 5. Krishna, 

P, D. SHUKLA, Dy. Edcl. Adviser, 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 
RESOLUTION 

New Delhi, the 29/h November 1960 

No, F.19-25/60-PH.— In the Resolution of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Health No. F.19-12/68-PH, dated 
the 25th April, i960, for the entry "Shri V, K. B. Pillai, I.C.S., 
Secretary, Ministry of Health, New Delhi” the following entry 
shall be substituted namely:— 

**3, The Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry 
of Health, ex-officio". 

Order 

Ordered that a copy of this Resolution be communicated 
to the Private and Military Secretaries to the President, Prime 
Ministers Secretariat, Cabinet Secretariat, Planning Commis- 
sion, the Ministries of the Government of India, State Govern- 
ments, Union Territories, Director, Indian Council of Medical 
Research, New Delhi, Director, All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, New Delhi, Members of the Committer, Shri V, K, B. 
Pillai, A.G.C.R., New Delhi, A.G. Madras. A,G, Maharashtra 
and the Manager, Government of India Press, New Delhi. 

Ordfrfo also that the Resolution be published in the 
Gazette of India for general information. 

B. R. tANDAN, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

RESOLUTION 

Neiu Delhi, the 3 rd December, 1960 

No. 3/43/60-EI — The Government of India hi the Ministry 
of Information and Broadcasting having considered a sugges- 
tion that cash prizes awarded to the producers and director* 
of films winning the State Awards may be given in the form 
of National Plan Savings Certificates and Treasury Savings 
Deposit Certificates and consulted the Film Federation of India, 
have resolved to accept the suggestion, 

2. Government have also resolved to broadbase the consti- 
tution of the Central and Regional Committees of State 
Awards so as to ensure adequate representation of person* 
conversant with each language in which films arc to be 
examined by these Committees. 

3, With a view to giving effect to the above resolutions,, 
the Rules concerning the State Award* for film* notified in 
the Resolution of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Information ami Broadcasting No. 21/11/59-FC (FI), dated 
the 27th November, 1959 arc hereby amended as follows, 
namely :— 

(1) The present rule 2 will be renumbered as sub-rule 
(1) and the following will be added as sub-rule (2), 
namely:— 

"2(2) Government may, at its discretion, give the cash 
prizes in the form of National Plan Savings Certificates 
and Treasury Savings Deposit Certificates." 

(2) The following will be substituted for rule 17, 

namely:— 

"17, Notwithstanding anything contained in rules 12 and 
16, Government may' co-opt on the Central or a 
Regional Committee, such number of additional 
members as may, in its opinion, be considered necea^ 
*ary to ensure adequate availability of member* 
knowing each language in which films are to be 
adjudged by such Committee. Further, nothing 
contained in rules 14, 15 and 20 shall preclude co- 
option of an additional member or members to- 
asslst the Documentary Committee, Educational 
Committee or the Special Committee constituted for 
the initial examination of children's films. The 
members so co-opted shall have all the rights of an 
ordinary member/' 

(3) The following will he substituted for rule 22, 

namely : — 

"22. The quorum of the Central, Documentary, Edu- 
cational, the Special Committee (If any), for Child- 
ren's Films, or a Regional Committee, shall be half 
the total number of members including the co-opted 
members." 

Ordered that the Resolution be published in the Ganetto 
of India for general information. 

N. J. KAMATH, Dy, Secy, 


PUBLIC NOTICE 
State Awards for Films 
New Delhi, the 3rd December, 1900 
Subject,— En tries for StQtc Awards for Films for 1960 

No. 3/54/60-FL— In pursuance of rule 8 of the Rule* con- 
cerning State Awards for Films notified in the Resolution erf 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No, 21/1 1/59- FC (FI), dated the 27th November, 
1959, entries for the State Awards for Films are hereby invited 
in respect of Indian films certified for public exhibition during 
the calendar year I960 and filmstrips produced during th© 
same year. The entry in respect of a film or filmstrip m ay 



Pa ki 1— Sec. 1] 


265 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 10, I960/AGRAHAYANA 19, 1882 


be made by Us producer or any other person duly authorised 
by him in this behalf, up to January 7, 1961, free of charge. 
The entry will be made in duplicate in the Form prescribed 
in the Schedule annexed to the Rules referred to above. 


2. Entries in respect of the various categories of films should 
be addressed to the authorities indicated below:— 


(a) Regional Officer, Cen- 
tral Board of Film 
Censors, 91, Walke- 
shwar Road, Bombay-6. 


(i) Feature films in Hindi 

(including Urdu and 
Hindustani)* Gujarati, 
Marathi, Puffiabj, 

Sindhi and English. 

(ii) Documentary films in 
all languages. 

(iii) Children’s films in all 
languages. 

(iv) Educational films in 

16 mm in all languages, 

(v) Filmstrips in 35 mm. 


(b) Regional Officer, Cen- 
tral Board of Film 
Censors* All India 
Radio Building* Eden 
Gardens, Calcutta-1* 

(O Regional Officer, Cen- 
tral Board of Film 
Censors, 53, Sir Mo- 
hammed Usman Road, 
T* Nagar, Madras-17* 


Feature films in Bengali* 
Oriya and Assamese. 


Feature films in Tamil, 
Telgu, Kannada and 
Malaya lam. 


5. An entrant will be required to submit at his cost to such 
Regional Officer of the Central Board of Film Censors or to 
any other authority as may be specified, a print of the film or 
Lhe filmstrip and such number of copies of the synopsis and 
aongs together with an English rendering thereof as may 
be specified in this behalf. The entrant of a film selected for 
viewing by the Central Committee will submit at his cost the 
specified number of copies of the detailed dialogue script in 
English or Hindi as well as the publicity material relating 
thereto in addition to the print and synopsis of the film. 


4, Government of India have decided in pursuance or rule 
6 of the Rules concerning the State Awards for Films that the 
length of a children's film shall not exceed 2,500 metres in 
55 mm and 1,000 metres In 16 mm for the purpose of entry 
for the Award#. 


S. PADMANABHAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

RESOLUTION 

New Delhi j the 30t/i November I960 

8u*j*crr.— Workchargcd Establishment, C.P.WJ).— Constitution 
of Categorisation and Removal of Anomalies 
Committee . 

No, 8(5)/60/WCE— The Government of India have decided 
to appoint a Committee to examine the question of classi- 
fication of posts In the workchaTgetl establishment of the 


C.P.W.D. into unskilled, semi skilled, skilled and highly skilled 
and supervisory categories and advice the Government on the 
measures to be taken to remove the existing anomalies, if any* 
with regard to classification of posts, individuals or groups of 
individuals. 

2. The Committee will be known as the Categorisation 
(Removal of Anomalies) Committee of the workcharged estab- 
lishment of the C.P.W.D and will consist of the following 
Officers 


Chairman 

.Shri P. K, Sen, Deputy Secretaiy, Ministry of \J/orks, 
Housing & Supply. 

Members 

(1) Shri V. K. Subrainanian, Under Secretary, Ministry of 
Finance. 

(2) Shri A. B. Sen, S. E, (Elec.). C.P.W.D, 

(3) Shri S. K. Rana, Assistant Chief Engineer, P. 8c T. 
Department. 

(4) A representative of the Ministry of Defence. 

A whole- time Secretary to the Committee will be appointed 
separately. 

3. Tenns of Reference : 

The terms of reference of the Committee will be 

(1) To categorise post# in the workcharged establishment 
of the C.P.W.D* as unskilled, semi-skilled, skilled and 
highly skilled and supervisory, 

(2) To examine and suggest remedies to remove existing 
anomalies, if any, in regard to classification of posts* 
groups as well as individuals, 

(3) To rationalise posts to avoid duplication, overlapping 
of functions and effect consequential modification* in 
the recruitment rules, trade tests, yardsticks, etc, 

4. The Committee will complete its work and submit ita 
report to the Government within 4 months from the date of 
Its formation. 

5. The decisions taken on the basis of the Committee’s 
recommendations will not have retrospective effect and will be 
given effect to only from a prospective date. 

6. The Committee will be free to lay down the method of 
its working and other procedural matters* 

7. The Chief Engineer, C.P.W.D. and other C.P.W.D. Officers 
in the various Circles, Divisions and Sub divisions shall give 
their full cooperation to the Committee and assist their work 
by furnishing all information required by them'. 

Order 

(1) Ordered that the Resolution be communicated to all 
Ministries of the Government of India, 

(2) Ordered also that the Resolution be published In the 
Gazette of India. 


T, SIVASANKAR, Secy* 




