on 


M . D . 


The Eazette 


of Indias 


MX 


DAHA 48 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No . 43 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


II 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 20th October 
1956 : 


Isguc 
No. 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


200A . S . R . O . 2218A , dated the 3rd | Office of tho Col | Certain directions issued to 
October, 1956 . 

lector of Customs all manufacturers of soap 
and Centralex under the Central Excisc 
cise Pondicherry . 

Rules , 1944 in the State of 

Pondicherry . 
299 S .R . O . 2320 , dated the with Ministry of Com - The Central Government 
October , 1956 . 

| merce and Consumer declared that Section 15 
Industries. 

of the Forward Contracto 
(Regulation ) Act, 1952 shall 
apply to castorsecd in the 

State of Hyderabad . 
S . R . O . 2321, dated the 11th 

Ditto , 

The Central Government 
October, 1956 , 

srepts recognition to the 
Hyderabad Oils and Seeds 
Bxchange , Ltd ., Hyderabad 
in respect of forward con 

tracts in castoraced . 
300 S . R . O . 2322 , dated the IIth Ministry of Informa - The Central Government 
October, 1956 . 

tion and Broadcast certifies a Alm to be of the 
ing . 

description specified in the 

Schedule . 
301 S . R .O . 2323 , dated the Iith Ministry of Finance. The Central Government speci 
October , 1956 . 

fles certain securities as ap 
proved securites for the pur 
pose of Insuranc : Act, 1938 . 


302 | S . R . O . 2324, dated the 

October , 1956 . 


15th 


Ministry of Finance. | The Central Government 
(Department of re exempts certain goods from 
venue. ) 

the customs duty leviable 
thereon under the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 or the 

Indian Tariff Act, 1934. 
Ditto , 

The Central Government 

exempts soap of all kinds 
from the customs duty 
leviable thereon under the 
Central Excis : Rul29 , 1944 
in the State of Pondicherry . 


303 | S .R . O . 2372 , dated 

October , 1956 . 


the 


17th 


(1757 ) 


1758 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


Pa 


II — SEC. 


Tagur 

No 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


304 


S.R .O . 2373, dated 

October , 1956 , 


the 17th 


Ministry of Law . 


Amendments made in the 

Representation of the 
People (Preparation of 
Electoral Rolls ) Rules , 
1956 . 


305 


the 17th 


S . R . O . 2374 , dated 

October , 1956 . 


Ministry of Informa- 
tion And Broadcast 
ing. 


The Central Government 
certific: certain films to be 
of thc description specified 
in the Shedul: . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes . 


PART II — Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authoritise 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-2 , the 15th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2387 , — In pursuance of rule 7 of the Indian Administrative Service 
( Recruitment) Rules , 1954 , the Central Government, in consultation with the 
State Governments and the Union Public Service Commission , licreby makes the 
following amendments in the Indian Administrative Service ( Appointment by 
Competitive Examination ) Regulations, 1955 , namcly : 

In rcgulation 4 of the said Rcgulations .. . 
( 1) For condition (i), the following shall be substituted , namely : 

" ( i) Nationality . He must be a citizen of India ." 
( 2 ) In condition ( ii) , in the first Proviso , for the word " three" , the word 
" Ave" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted with 
effect from the 2nd February , 195f . 

[No. 13 / 9 /56 - AIS (III). ] 


· S . R . O . 2388 . - In pursuance of rule 7 of the Indian Police Service ( Recruit 
ment) Rules, 1954 , the Central Government, in consultation with the State 
Governments and the Union Public Service Commission , hereby makes the follow 
ing amendments in the Indian Police Service ( Appointment by Competitive 
Examination ) Regulations, 1955 , namely : 

In regulation 4 of the said Regulations 
( 1 ) For condition (i) , the following shall be substituted , namely : 

" (i ) Nationality . - Hc must be a citizen of India ." 
( 2 ) In condition ( ii ) , in the first Proviso , for the words " three " the word 
" five" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted with 
effect from the 2nd February , 1956 . 

[No . 13/ 10 /56 -AIS ( III ). 
New Delhi- 2, the 16th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2389, - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 3 of the All India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951) , the Central Government, 
after consultation with the Governments of the Statcs concerned , hereby makes 


PART II - SEC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1968 


1959 


the following amendment in the Indian Police Service ( Probation ) Rules , 1984 
namely : 

For rule 14 of the said Rules , the following rule shall be substituted , namely : 

" 14 . Tranelling allowance - - A probationer shall, in respect of a journey 
which he may be required to perform , be entitled to such travelling allowances 
as may be admissible to a member of the Service 

( i) on tour, iſ the journey is 

( a ) in conncction with his training; or 
(b ) for attendance at any examination during the period of probation ; 

and 
( ii) on transfer, if the journey is for procecding to the station to which he 
is posted after the final Examination ." 

[ No. 13 /5 / 56 - AIS ( III) . ] 


S . R . O . 2390 , - In cxorcisc of the power s coníerred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 3 of the All India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951 ) , the Central Govern 
ment, after consultation with the Governments of the States concerned , hereby 
makes the following amendment in the Indian Administrative Service (Proba 
tion ) Rules , 1951, namely : 

For rule 14 of the said Rules, thc following rule shall be substituted , 
namely : 

" 14 - Trimelling clouen 1 - 1 Probalic .ro shall, in respect of a journey 
which he may 13 luaui:ci to perform , ho entitled in such travelling allowances 
as may be acimissible to it meriber of the Service 

( i) on tour, it the journey is 

(a ) in connection with his training ; or 
(b ) for attendance at any cxamination during the period of probation ; 

and 
( ii ) on transfer , if the journey is for proceeding to the station to which 
ho is posted after the final Examination ." 

[No. 13 / 5 /56 -AIS ( III ). ] 
P . PRABIIAKAR RAO, Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi-2, the 16th October, 1956 
S . R . O . 2391.- - In cxercise ol thus r :WTS conferred by sections 17 and 27 of tho 
Indian Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878 ), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following further amendment in the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, namely : 
In Schedule VII to the suid Rules, the entries relating to item ( 9 ) shall 
be omitted . 

[No. 15 / 15 /56 - Policc - (IV ). ] 
New Delhi- 2, the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2399,-- - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 17 of the Indian 
Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the fol 
lowing further amendment to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, namely : 

In items 5 and 6 of the entries in column 1 of the table subjoined to Schedule 
II of the said Rules , the following shall be added after tho words land frontiers 
of India ’, namely : 
" and the districts of Sibsagar, Lakhimpur, and United Mikir and North 
Cachar Hills in Assam ." 

[No. 29 / 10 /56 - Police. IV .) 
New Delhi- 2 , the 20th October, 1956 
S . R . O . 2393 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Indian 
Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby exempts .His Majesty 
the Emperor of Ethiopia and entourage of 21 members from the operation of 


1760 


WE CAZATTE OF INRIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1946 


(PART II SEC: 3 


TO 


the prohibitions and directions contained in sections 8 , 10 and 13 - 15 of the 
sald Act, in respect of the arms and ammunition possessed by them , during the 
course of their forthcoming visit to this country . 

[ No. 17 / 14 /56 -Police ( IV ) .) 
C . P . S , MENON , Under Secy . 


New Delhi-2, the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2394 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 , section 17 , and 
section 27 of the Indian Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the Indian Arms Rules, 1951 
namely : - - 

In the Table in Schedule III to the said Rules 
After item (3) the following item shall be added, namely : 


Do. 


(4 ) Arms and ammunition specified in clause 
( a ) (( li ) ofrule 7 imported by foreign Con 
sular Officers in Indir. 


Such armsand ammunition shall not 
be transferred to anyone in India for 
consideration or otherwiso . 


[No. F . 17 / 12 / 56 - PoliceIV . ] 
J. N . DHAMIJA , Dy. Secy . 


: 


New Delhi- 2 , the 18th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2895. -- In pursuance of clause (b ) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules , 1956 , 
the Central Government hereby appoints each of the officers specified in column 1 
of the Schedule hereto annexed to perform in the State of Patiala and East Pun 
jab States Union the functions of the Collector under the said Rules in respect of 
the area specified against him in the entry in column 2 of the said Schedule . 

SCHEDULE 


Designation of the Officer ] 


Arca 


I. Tahsildar, Nalagarh . 
2 . Tabsildar, Kandaghat . 


. 
. 


. 


Nalagarh Tahsil. 

(1) Kandaghat Tahsil ; and 
(12) Chadiala , Amlala , Baroli, Karkaur , Igapur 

(Pragpur), Sanoli, Ramgarh , Madhopur (Dera 
Bassl), Kuranwala and Janetpur Patwar Circles of 
Dera Bassi Qanungo circle in Rajpura Tahsil. 
Rajpura Tahsil [excluding part under charge of 

Tahsildar Kandaghat at item 2 ( it ) abovc ] ; and 
(11) Rajpur Qanungo circle ( excluding Karanpur , Pur, 

Sanaur, Bolar Kalan , Bhankar , Fatehpur Raj 
putan and Behal Patwar Circles) in Patiala Tabsti. 


3 . Tehsildar, Rajpura 


. 


. 


. 


4 . Tahsildar , Sirhind 
5 . Tahsildar, Patiala 
6 . Tahsildar, Nabha 
7 . Tahsildar , Sangrur 
8 .- Tahsildar, Narwana 
9 . Tahsildar , Jind 
Tó . Tahsildar, Dadri 


. 


Sirhind Tahsil, 
Patiala Tahsil ( excluding part under charge of Tahsildar 

Rajpura at Item 3 (11) above . ] 
Nabha Tahsil. 
Sangrur Tahsil . 
Narwana Tahgil . 
Jind Tahsil, 

(1) Dadri Tahsil ; and 
(ii) Bhagot and Siana Patwar Circles in Kanina 

Qanungo circle in Mahendargar Tahsil . 


PART II – Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 10 de 


1761 


sh 


. 


. 


II. Tahsildar, Mahendragarh 
12 . Tahsildar, Narnaul . 
13. Tahsildar , Kapurthala 
14 . Tahsildar , Phagwara . 


. 
. 


. 


HHH 


15 . Tahsildar, Faridkot 
16 . Tahsildar , Bhatinda , 
17. Tahsildar, Manga 
18 . Tahsildar , Malerkotla . 


Mahendragarh Tehall (excluding Patwar circles Bhagot 

and Signa ) . 
Narnaul Tahsil. 
Kapurthala Tahsil ( excluding Kapurthala No. 3 Qanungo 
drcle ), 
(1) Phagwara Tahsil ; and 
( i) Kapurthala No. 3 Qanungo circle in Kapurthala 

Tahsil. 
Faridkot Tahgil. 
Bhatinda Tahsil. 
Mansa Tahsil . 

(1) Malerkotla Tehsil ; and 
(it) Mahal Kalan Qanungo Circle (excluding Kutba , 

Dadahur, Nihaluwal, Shebazpur, Johlan and Julel 

diwal Patwar circles in Barnala Tahsil .) 
(1) Barnala Tahsil [excluding area at item 18 (1 ) above ); 

and 
(12) Phul and Dayalpura Bhalke Qanungo Circles in 

District Bhatinda. 


19 . Tahsildar, Barnala 


[No. 10 / 3 /56- IC .) 


S . R . O . 2396 . — In pursuance of clause ( b ) of rule ( 2 ) of the Citizenship Rules, 
1956 , the Central Government hereby appoints each of the officers specified in 
column 2 of the Schedule hereto annexed to perform in the State of Assam the 
functions of the Collector under the said Rules in respect of the area specified 
against him in the corresponding entry in column 3 and comprised within the 
district mentioned in column 1 of the said Schedule . 

SCHEDULE 


Name of the district 


Designation of the Officer 


Area 


2 


Lakhimpur 
Kamrup 

. 
United Khani & Jaintia Hills 


. 
. 


Sub -Deputy Collector , Dibru - Dibrugarh East Circle. 

garh East Circle 
Sub - Deputy Collector , Kam - Kampur Circle 

pur Circle 
Second Extra Assistant Com - Shillong Sub - Division 
missioner and Senior Sub 

Deputy Collector, Shillong. 
Sub - Deputy Collector , Jowai, Jowal Sub -Division 


[ No. 10 / 3 / 56- IC .) 
S .R .O . 2397 . — In pursuance of clause (b ) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules , 1956 , 
the Central Government hereby appoints each of the officers specified in column 
1 of the Schedule hereto annexed to perform in the State of Orissa the functions 
of the Collector under the said Rules in respect of the area specified against him 
in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Schedule , 

SCHEDULE 


Designation of the Officer 


Area 


T 


District Rehabilitation Officer , Cuttack . 
Additional Rchabilitation Officer, Cuttack . 
District Rehabilitation Officer, Put! . 
Dletrict Rehabilitation Officer, Bilaspore . 


. 


Rut 


Cuttack District. 

Do. 
Puri District, 
Balaspore District , 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1762 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


(PART. II — Szc. 3 


Officer - in -Charge, Elections, Ganjam . . 
Omer-in -Charge , Elections, Sambalpuri 
Officer -in -Charge , Elections, Mayurbhan ) 
Officer - in - Charge, Elections, Dhenkanali 
Oficer -in - Charge , Elections, Keonjhar 
Officer - in -Charge , Elections, Kalahandi . 
Officer -in - Charge , Elections , Sundargarh . 
Sub - Divisional Officer, Phulbani , . 
Commandant, Charbatia Relief Camp, Cuttack 
Assistant Commandant, Clarbatia Relief Camp, Cuttack 


Ganjam District, 
Sambalpur District . 
Mayurbhanj District. 
Dhenkanal District. 
Keconjhar District, 
Kalahandi District. 
Sundargarh District. 
Baudh - Phul-bani District . 
Charbatia Relief Camp, 
Charbatia Relief Camp. 


[No. 10 / 3 / 56 - ( 1) - IC . ] 


New Delhi -2 , the 20th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2398 .- - In pursuance of clause (b ) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules , 
1956 , the Central Government hereby appoints the officer specified in column 2 of 
the Schedule hereto annexed to perform in the State of Assam the functions of 
Collector under the said Rules in respect of the area specified against him in 
the corresponding entry in column 3 and comprised within the district mentioned 
in column 1 of the said Schedule, 


SCHEDULE 


Name of the District 


Designation of the Officer. 


Area. 


Cachar 


Additional District 
Magistrate, Cachar. 


Whole of the District 


[ No . 10 / 8 / 56 - IC .] 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi- 2 , the 18th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2999 . In the Schedule annexed to the Notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No . 10 / 3 / 58 - IC , dated the 28th September , 
1958 , published at pages 1670 - 1673 of the Gazette of India , Part II — Section 3 , 
dated the 6th October , 1956 , against the Cachar district , for the entry " R / R OM 
cer , Karimganj" in column 2 read " Assistant Relief and Rehabilitation Officer , 
Karimganj," 

[NO. 10 / 3 / 56 -1C.) 


New Delhi- 2, the 22nd October 1958 
S . R . O . 2400 . - In the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Home Affairs, S . R . O . No. 1574 , published in the Gazette of India Extraodinary , 
Part II — Section 3 of the 7th July , 1956 (No. 204 ) , in column 2 of Form X of 
Schedule I to the Citizenship Rules , 1956, for the words " Full name of applicant 
and address " read " Full name of minor and address " , 

[No. F .2 / 27 / 58 -1. ] 
FATEH SINGH , Dy . Secy . 


New Delh2- 2 , the 23rd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2401. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 24 of the High 
Court Judges ( Conditions of Service ) Act, 1954 ( 28 of 1954 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby makes the following Rules, namely : 

1. These Rules may be called the High Court Judges (Part A States ) Travelling 
Allowance Rules , 1956 . 


PART II— SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


1762 


2 . ( 1 ) When a Judge travels on duty , he is entitled 
( a ) when travelling by railway, to a reserved two-berth compartment of 

the highest class including air - conditioned , and if one such compart 
ment is not available then to è reserved four- berth compartment of 
the highest class ( but excluding air - conditioned ) and the fares at 
lowest class rates actually paid for servants not exceeding two in 
number ; 


( b ) when travelling by a steamer service, to one reserved first - class cabin , 

if available, or to the fare actually paid for himself , and the fares 
at lowest class rates actually paid to the steamer service for servants 
not exceeding two in number subject to usual deductions on account 
of messing charges ; 


( c ) when travelling by a public air transport service , to the faro paid for 

himself and , if actually paid , the cost of transporting up to two 
maunds of luggage by rail at passenger rates , or steamer and the 
railway or steamer fares of the lowest class for servants not ex 
ceeding two in number , and the expenditure actually incurred on 
the transport by road of servants or luggage upto a maximum of 8 
annas per mile of that part of the journey by road for which no 

allowance is claimed under clausę ( d ) of this sub -rule ; 
( d ) when travelling by road, to an allowance at the rate of Re, 1 per mile : 
Provided that 
( 1 ) no such allowance shall be payable in respect of that portion of a 

journey by road for which a public air transport service provides 
its own transport and the fare for which journey is included in 

the air fare paid under clause (c ) for the air journey ; 
( ii) no mileage allowance shall be admissible for journeys undertaken 

within a radius of five miles from the residence of the Judge or 
for a journey between such residence or temporary residence and 
the place of sitting of the High Court or of a Bench of the High 

Court ; and 
( ii ) where daily allowance is admissible and is claimed for any day , no 

mileage allowance shall be admissible in addition in respect of any 
journey undertaken by road within a radius of five miles from 

the temporary residence of the Judge at the place of halt; 
( iv ) no such allowance shall be payable in cases where the Judge uses 

transport provided at Government expense . 
( e ) to a daily allowance at the rate of Rs. 15 in respect of any period 

(including Sundays and other holidays ) of halt on duty outside his 

headquarters : 
Provided that , 
( i ) when a Judge is required to perform functions outside his normal 

duties in localities away from his headquarters he may, subject to 
such conditions as the President may in each case determine, be 
granted daily allowance not exceeding Rs, 25 in respect of ordinary 
localities and daily allowance not exceeding Rs. 30 and transport 
charges not exceeding Rs. 10 per day in respect of specially ex 
pensiye localities , like Bombay , Calcutta or any other locality so 

declared hereafter by the President; 
( ii) when a Judge is required to perform similar functions, whether 

part - time or whole - time in his own headquarters , he shall not be 
paid any allowance or charges unless the special work involves 
extra expense in which case he may be granted such allowance 
not exceeding Rs. 25 per day as the President may in each case 
determine ; 


(i) wherties in 


calities the 


( iii ) when a Judge is a State guest , the daily allowance shall be restricted 

to 25 per cent of the amount admissible or sanctioned ; 
( iv ) when a Judge proceeds on duty to the Andaman and Nicobar 

Islands, the period from the date of his departure from the main 
land to the date of his return to the mainland shall be treated as 
a period of halt on duty . 


1764 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOPKR 27 , 1958 


[PART II - SC. 3 


( 1 ) to the expenditure, if any , actually incurred on the transport by 

passenger train or steamer at owner s risk of a motor car , and the 
fare at lowest class rate actually paid to a railway or steamer service 

in respect of one driver or cleaner for the car . 
( 2 ) If any persons (other than servants ) accompany a Judge in a compart 
ment or cabin reserved for him under sub - rule ( 1 ) , fares shall be payable by 
him on their account, and the fares so paid shall, it full tarift rates have been 
paid by Government for the reserved accommodation , be credited to Government. 
( 3 ) For the purposes of this rule — 
(i ) all journeys to and from headquarters shall be deemed to commence 

and terminate at the Judge s residence at headquarters or, as the 
case may be, at an out - station ; 


( H ) a Judge shall be deemed to be travelling on duty when , during a 

vacation of the High Court, he proceeds from any place in India 
where he was spending the vacation for the purpose of doing duty 
in the High Court and returns to such place after completion of 
such duty . 


3 . ( 1 ) When a Government servant, appointed to be a Judge travels by 
railway to join his post, he may , at his option and in lieu of drawing travelling 
allowance under the ordinary rules governing a journey on transfer applicable 
to him , travel in a reserved compartment of the highest class , excluding air con 
ditioned . 


( 2 ) A Government servant availing himself of this concession must pay to 
Government the fare which he would have paid if no accommodation had been 
reserved , and must, in addition , pay in cash to the station master of the station 
from which the journey commences , the fares for any members of his family 
accompanying him , whether they share him reserved accommodation or not. 
When Government pays full tariff rates for the accommodation , all such fares 
will be credited to Government. 


Explanation . For purposes of rules 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 a reserved compartment 

means a two -berthed compartment or a four -berthed compartment if 
a two -berthed compartment is not available in the train by which 

a Judge travels, 
4 . When a person not already in Government service is appointed to be a 
Judge, he may , when travelling by railway to join his post , travel in a reserved 
compartment of the highest class , excluding air conditioned and subject to the 
conditions prescribed in sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 . 
5 . When a Judge 

( a ) proceeds on , or returns from , leave or 
(b ) proceeds on , or returns from , vacation spent outside India , or 
( c ) retires from service, or 

( d ) proceeds to join another post after resigning office , 
he may when travelling in a railway , travel in a reserved compartment of the 
highest class, excluding air conditioned and subject to the conditions prescribed 
in sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 : 
Provided that in the case of a journey on retirement from service this 

entitlement will lapse if the journey is not completed within six 
months from the date of retirement. 


6 . When a Judge is transferred from one High Court to another , or from or 
to the place of the principal seat of the High Court to or from a place where a 
Bench of the High Court is permanently located he shall be entitled to the ex 
penditure actually incurred by him on his journey for the transport of 

(a ) when travelling by rail or by steamer 
(i) the Judge himself , by a reserved compartment or cabin of the 

highest class , excluding air conditioned ; 
( ) members of his family not travelling in the reserved compartment 

or cabin , in the highest class of accommomation excluding air 
conditioned ; 


PART II + 6 .c . 8] 


THE GAZEUTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1988 


1765 


(b ) when travelling by road 

( i) the Judge himself at the rate of Rs. 20 per mile ; 


fin ? 


(ii) for every member of his family accompanying him upto a maximum 

of four members at the rate of 8 annas per mile : 


Provided that when any portion of the journey can be preformed by 

railway, the allowance claimed in respect of that portion shall 
not exceed the amount admissible had the Judge and the members 
of his family travelled on such portion by railway by the highest 
class, excluding air - conditioned . 


( c ) when travelling by air , the Judge himself and the members of his 

family by a public air transport service; 


( d ) personal servants , not exceeding four in number , by passenger train or 

steamer or by public road transport service at lowest class rates ; 


( e ) one motor car, by passenger train or steamer at owner s risk ; and 


( f ) other personal effects , not exceeding the expenditure which would be 

incurred in the transport of 60 maunds of goods by road and by 
goods train or steamer, and the expenditure incurred in embarking 
and disembarking such personal effects , 


Explanation . For the purpose of this rule , members of a Judge s family means 

his wife , his children and his step - children , normally residing with 
and wholly dependent on him , 


7 . Where by reason of a change in the principal seat of the High Court a 
Judge changes his ordinary place of residence , he is entitled to the same allow 
ances as on transfer from one High Court to another . 


8 . Repeal and Savings. — ( 1 ) The High Court Judges ( Part A States) Travelling 
Allowance Rules , 1950, are hereby repealed . 


( 2 ) Notwithstanding such repeal, nothing contained in these rules shall have 
effect so as to give to a Judge who is serving as such at the commencement of 
these rules less favourable terms in respect of his travelling and daily allowances 
than those to which he would be entitled if these rules had not been made . 


[No. 11 / 45 /55- Judl.I.] 
M . GOPAL , MENON , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 4th September 1956 


( To be substituted for the Notification bearing the same number & date ) 


S . R . O . 2402. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 1 ) of section 4 
of the Foreign Jurisdiction Act , 1947, and of all other powers enabling in this 
behalf , the Central Government hereby orders that the President of the Permanent 
Commission of the Representative Assembly Pondicherry shall recelve a remunera 
tion of Rs. 200 / - per month , with effect from 26th August , 1955 in addition to the 
salary and allowances admissible to him as Member of the Representative 
Assembly , Pondicherry, vide this Ministry s Notification No. S . R . O . ( F . 10 - 103 / 
GP ) [FJA4( 1) ] dated the 2nd January , 1956 . 

[No , 597 / 56 - Eur.E . ] 
F , M . DE MELLO KAMATH , Under Secy . 


1766 


THT GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1958 


[PART JI - SEC . 3 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & CONSUMER INDUSTRIES 

New Delhi, the 19th October 1956 


S . R . O . 2403. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential 
-Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the Cotton Textiles (Control) Order , 1948 , 
namely : - - 


In the said Order , in sub - clause (3 ) of clause 12, for the figures, letters 

and word “ 31st August, 1956 " , the figures, letters and word “ 30th 
November , 1956 " shall be substituted . 

[No. 9 ( 13 ) Tex . ( C ) / 56 . ] 
M . S. SADAŞIVAN , Under Secy . 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 


New Delhi, the 17th October 1956 


S . R . O . 2404 . - In pursuance of sub - regulations (2 ) and (3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian 
Standards Institution Certification Marks Regulations , 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifics that the Indian Standards particulars of which are given in the Schedule lereto 
annezed , have been cştablished during the period Ist to 15 October 1956 . 


THE SCHEDULE 


şi, 
No, 


Brief particulars 


No. and title of the 
No. and title of the Indian Standards Indian Standard 
established 

or Standards, if 
any, auperseded 
by the new In 
dian Standard 


( 3 ) 


(4 ) 


I 


IS :554 - 1955 Specification for Pipe 

Threads for Gas List Tubes and 
Screwed Fittings ( Tentative ) 


This standard covers dimensions 

and tolerances of pipc threads 
of gas list tubes as well as 
those of cocks, valves and other 
fittings to be connected with 
gas list tubes where pressure 
tight joints are made on the 
thread of nominult sizes to 6 in 
inclusive. Both taper to taper 
and parallel to taper jointe 
are covered in this standard . 
(Price Rs. 2 /- ). 


IS :640 - 1956 Specification for Ready 

Mixed Red Oxide Paint for Hus 
sian Colour Unspecified ) 


This standard covers the require 
ments and the methods of test 
for the material commercially 
known as ready mixed paint , 
red oxide, intended for paint 
ing the heasian backing of sheet 
linoleum . (Price Re. I / -) . 


PART FI -fStc. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1968 


1767 


(2 ) 


- - - 


3 


IS :870 - 1956 Specification for Rcady 
Mixed Paint, Brushing, Finishing , 
Egg Sholl Glogs, for Interior Usc , 

to Indian Standard Colours 
No. 101 Sky Blue No . 219 Sage Green 
No.216 Eau -de- No. 275 Opalino 
Nil 

Green 
No . 217 Sca No. 281 Apple 
Grcen 

Green 


4 


IS : 871- 1956 Specification for Ready 
Mired Paint, Brushing , Finishing, 
Egg Shell Gloys, for Interior Usc , 
to Indian Standard Colours 


These three standards cover the 
requirements and the methods 
of tests for the material com 
mercially known as ready 
mixed paints, brushing, finish 
ing, cgg sh : 11 gloss, for 
internal use , 10 Indian Stand 
ard Colyurs. These paints are 
used for protection and de 
coration of wood or steel work 
of interior of buildings and 
especially coaching stock whero 
•88 shell gloss finish and 
quick drying characteristics are 
specifically required , and aro 
normally applied as painting 
system over primer, (Price 
Re. I /- cach). 


Class A 
No, 218 Grass 

Green 


Class B 
No. 221 Brilliant 

green 


5 


IS : 872 - 1956 Specification for Ready 
Mixed Paint, Brushing, Finishing , 
Egg Shell Gloss, for Interior Use , 

to Indian Standard Colours 
No. 412 Dark No. 413 Nut Brown 

Βτοπη 


Copies of all these standards Rre available for sale with the Indian Standards Institution , 
19 . University Road , Delhi- 8 , 

LAL C . VERMAN , Director. 


[ No. MDC /11(4).] 
VIDYA PRAKASH , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEAVY INDUSTRIES 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2498 / RA / 18G / 12 / 66 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by _ section 
18G of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 (66 of 1951 ) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the Cement 
Control Order, 1956 , namely : 

For sub - clause ( 1 ) ( b ) of clause 3 of the said Order, the following shall be 
substituted , namely : 
" ( b ) the entire quantity of cement which may be produced by him during 

a period of 2 ycars from the date of commencement of this Order, 
except such quantities as may be mutually agreed upon from time 

to time between him and the Government;" 
This amendment shall be deemed to have taken effect from the first day of 
July 1956. 

[No. Cem - 8 ( 400 ) /56. ] 
G . RAMANATHAN , Dy. Şecy . 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 15th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2406 / IDRA / 6 / 6 / Am . ( 2 ) - In the Order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry No, S . R . O . 661 dated the 24th March 1955 , 
published in Part II Section 3 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary dated the 
25th March , 1955 , 
For " Shri A . R . Narasimhan , General Superintendent, Travancore 

Cochin Chemicals Ltd , Udyogmandal P .O ., T . C . State ( S , India )." 


1768 


TRE GAZTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 29 , 1908 


[PART II - SEC, 3 


Read " Shri A R . Narasimhan , Cork Manager , Hindustan Insecticides, 
Nazafgarh Road , New Delhi." 

[ No . 8 ( 21 ) IA (GB ) / 56 . ) 
R . N . KAPUR , Under Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 23rd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2407 /ESS .COMM / RRON & STEEL - 15 ( 1 ) & 27 ( I) /AM ( 8 ) ( Corr . ) . In 
the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Heavy Industries , 
No. IS ( A ) - 2 ( 172 ) /56, dated the 24th September 1956, published as S . R . O . No, 
2207 / ESS . COMM / IRON & STEEL - 15 ( 1 ) & 27 ( I) / AM ( 3 ), in the Gazette of India , 
Part II — Section 3, dated the 29th September 1956 , 
For the words " 1st August 1956 " occurring in para 2 of the Conditions for 
Sale, I -General, read " 29th September, 1956." 

[ NO, IS ( A ) - 2 ( 172 ) / 58 .] 
P . S . V . RAGHAVAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 

New Delhi, the 18th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2408. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 52 Agricultural 
Produce (Development and Warehousing ) Corporations Act, 1956 ( 28 of 1956 ) , 
the Central Government hereby makes the following rules: 


CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 
1. Short title . - These rules may be called the Agricultural Produce ( Develop 
ment & Warehousing ) Corporations Rules, 1950 . 
2 . Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-- 
(a ) " Act" means the Agricultural Produce (Development & Warehousing ), 

Corporations Act, 1956 ; 
( b ) " Board ” means the National Co -operative Development and Warehousing, 

Board , established under section 3 of the Act ; 
( c ) " Central Warehousing Corporation " means the Central Warehousing 

Corporation , established under section 17 of the Act ; 
( d ) “ Chairman " means the Chairman of the Board ; 
( e ) " Executive Committee " means the Executive Committee of the Board . 

or of the Central Warehousing Corporation , as the case may be ; 
(1 ) " Form " means a form appended to these rules ; 
(g ) "Member" means a member of the Board ; 
(h ) " Secretary " means the Secretary of the Board ; 
(1) " Section " means a section of the Act; 
(1 ) " Vice-Chairman " means the Vice -Chairman of the Board. 

CHAPTER II 

THE BOARD 
3 . Representatives of the Central Government on the Board . — The Central 
Government shall nominate the following persons as its representatives on the 
Board under clause ( i) of sub -section ( 2 ) of section 3 : 

( 1) The Minister for Food and Agriculture, Central Government. 
( ii ) The Secretary , Ministry of Food and Agriculture , Government of 

India . 
( iii ) The Joint Secretary in charge of Co-operation in the Ministry of 

Food and Agriculture , Government of India , 
( lv ) The Financial Adviser to the Ministry of Food & Agriculture, 
( V ) A representative of the Ministry of Finance (Economic Affairs Depart 

ment) . 
( vi) A representative of the Ministry of Production , 


BAB IISRO 31 


THE QAZUMER . OB INDIA QATSPAR 2D 1099 


1769 


Rua 


Bw . _ PAZEMES URDIA,OTOPARK: 2888 _ 1769 


( vil ) A representative of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry . 
( viii ) A representative of the Ministry of Transport. 
( ix ) A representative of the Railway Board , 
( x ) A representative of the Planning Commission , 


4 . Chadrman and Vice- Chairman . - The Central Government shall nominate 
the Chairman and Vice - Chairman from among the members of the Board . 


5 . Term of office of members . Every member of the Board other than an ex 
oficio member shall hold office for a period of three years from the date of his 
nomination as such member under sub - section ( 2 ) of section 3 . 

6 . Futing in casual vacancy of a non - oficial member . - ( 1 ) A non -official 
member may resign his office as such member by writing under his hand adres 
sed to the Central Government and such resignation shall be effective from the 
date on which it is accepted . The casual vacancy so caused shall be filled in by 
nomination by the Central Government. 

( 2 ) A person nominated to fill a casual vacancy shall hold office for so long 
only as the member , whose place he Alls would have been entitled to hold office , 
if the vacancy had not occurred . 

7. Register of mombers. - ( 1 ) The Board shall maintain a register in which the 
name and address of each member shall be entered . 

( 2 ) If a member changes his address , he shall notify his new address to the 
Secretary and the Secretary shall amend the relevant entry in the Register 
accordingly . 

8 . Non -official member going out of India . — ( 1 ) Before a non -official member 
leaves India , he shall inform the Chairman and intimate to him the date of his 
departure and the date of his expected return to India . 

( 2 ) If he intends to be, or is actually , absent from India for a period longer 
than six months, he shall tender his resignation unless the Chairman, at his 
discretion , allows him to continue as a member of the Board . 

( 3 ) If a non -official member is continuously absent from India for a period 
longer than six months and has not obtained the Chairman s permission under 
sub - rule ( 2 ) , the Central Government may, subject to the provisions of section 
6 , remove him from membership of the Board , 

9 . Non - oficial member absenting himself from three copgoouthve meetings of 
the Board . Any non - official member , who without the permission of the Chair 
man absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the Board may , subject 
to the provisions of section 6 , be removed from membership of the Board by the 
Central Government, 

10 . Secretary of the Board . - - ( i) The Secretary of the Board shall draw guch 
salary as the Central Government may deem flt to fix in each case . 
( ii) If the Secretary is not an officer in the service of the Government 
( a ) his leave and leave allowances and travelling allowances shall be the 

same as those admissible to the class of officers to which the Cen 

tral Government may declare him to correspond in status ; 
( b ) the other conditions of service shall be such as the Central Govern 

ment may determine in each case. 
( iii) If the Secretary is an officer in the service of the Government, the 
Board shall make such contribution to wards the leave allowances , pension and 
provident fund as may be required , by the conditions of his service under the 
Government, to be made by him or on his behalf. 


( iv ) The Central Government may terminate the services of the Secretary 
appointed under clause ( ii) at any time without giving any reasons therefor by 
giving three months notice, and the Secretary may resign his office at any time 
by giving three month s notice in writing to the Central Government. 


10A . Financial Adviser of the Board . — The Board shall appoint, with the 
approval of the Central Government, a Financial Adviser to advice the Board 
on all matters relating to revenue and expenditure. 


1770 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


[PART II - Std 3 


11. Nomination of members to the Executive Committee. - - The Central Gov 
ernment shall nominate the following persons to the Executive Committee of 
the Board under section 10 : — 
(i ) The Joint Secretary in charge of Co -operation , Ministry of Food and 

Agriculture , Government of India ; 
( ii) The financial Adviser to the Ministry of Food and Agriculture on the 

Board ; 
( iii ) The representative of the Ministry of Production or of the Planning 

Commission on the Board, 
12 . Vice - Chairman of the Executive Committee . -- The Vice Chairman of the 
Executive Committee shall be nominated by the Central Government. 

13 . Resignation by non - official members of the Executive Committee. — A non 
offcial member of the Executive Committee may resign liis ollice as such mem 
ber of the Executive Committee by writing under his head addressed to the 
Secretary and such resignation shall to cffective from the date on which it is 
accepted by the Executive Committee. 


CHAPTER III 
NOMINATION AND ELECTION OF DIRECTORS OF THE CENTRAL WAREHOUSING CORPORATION 

14 , Nomination of Directors by the Board . The Board shall nominate the re 
presentatives of the Ministry of Transport and of the Railway Board , who are 
serving on the Bourd , as the two clirectors referred to in clause ( b ) of sub - section 
( i) of section 21. 


15 . Issuo of notice of election . — \Vhere at any mecting an election is to be held , 
the particulars relating to the vacancy shall be specified in the notice convening 
the meeting . 


16 . List of cach class of whareholders . — ( 1 ) For live purpose of election of a 
director under any of the sub - clauses ( i) to ( iv ) uf clausc ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) 
of seclion 21, a separate list of sharhlders of each cla - shall be prepared at 
least four wteks before the date ot the meeting at which the election is to be 
held and the shareholders oſ cirh class shall be cligible to vote in the election 
of director representing their clPSS only . 

( 2 ) Each such list shall be available for purchase at a price of 8 annas for 
each copy on application at the Head Office of the Central Warehousing Corpora 
tion , 

17 . Nomination of candidates for directorship . - ( 1 ) No candidate for election 
as a director of the Central Warehousing Corporation shall be validly nominated 
unless 
(a ) he is , on the last date for rccepit of nominution , not disqualified to be 

a director under section 22; 
( b ) he is nominated by a shareholder of the class of shareholders in res 

pect of which the election is to be held ; 
( c ) the nomination is in writing signed by u duly authorised representa 

tive of the shareholder , A nomination may also be made by a reso 
lution of the Directors of the Shareholding institution and where 
it is so made a copy of the resolution certified to be a true copy by 
the Chairman of the meeting at which it was passed shall be 
despatched to the head office of the Corporation and such copy shall 

be deemed to be a nomination . 
( 2 ) No nomination shall be valid unless it is received in the Head Office of 
the Corporation not less than 14 days before the date fixed for the election , 

18 . Publication or list of candidates for directorship . — On the first working 
day following the last date fixed for the receipt of nomination papers, the Chair 
man shall take the same into consideration . He shall, after such enquiry , if any, 
as he thinks necessary , accept or reject the nomination of any candidate . Any 
person aggrieved by the decision of the Chairman , may within 7 days of the order 
of the Chairman , accepting or rejecting the nomination of any candidate , appeal 
to the Central Government, whose decision thereon shall be final. If the number 
of valid nominations is equal to the vacancies to be filled in each category , the 


PART IILSEÇ. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1968 


1771 


candidates validly nominated shall be deemed to be elected at the meeting con 
vened for the purpose and thcir names and addresses shall be published as so 
selected . If the number of valid fiominations exceeds the number of vacancies 
in each category the Chairman shall cause to be published the names and addres 
ses of candidates validly nominated in the Gazette of India and in at least three 
news- papers in India . 


19 . Term of office , and filling of casual vacancies among directors. 
( 1 ) A nominated director shall hold office so long as he remains a member 

of the Board , 
( 2 ) Subject to thc provisions of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 21, an elected 

director Shall hold office for a term of two years or until a successor 

is elected , whichever is longer . 
( 3 ) A casual vacancy in the office of a director shall be filled up by election 

or nomination by the authority competent so to elect or nominate 
and a dircctor so clected or nominated shall huld office for so 
long only a the director whose plice he fills would have been 

entitled to hold office if the vacancy had not occurred ; 
Provided that no casual vacancy occurring within three months of the date 
of expiry of the nomal term of uſlice of a director shall be filled under this sub 
rule . 


20 . Power to nominate director on failure o elect - If sny class of Sharc 
holders rcferred to in clause ( a ) of sub - scrtion ( i ) of section 2 ) fails to elect a 
director within two months of the notice of the varancy given by the Secretary 
or within such further period as the Central Guvernment may allow , the Board 
shall nominate a director to fill the vacancy . 


21 . Election of directors of the Executlye Committee . -- The two directors to 
be chosen by the Central Warehousing Corporation under clause ( c ) of sub 
Section ( i) of section 26 shall be- -- 
( i) The Financial Advisor to the Ministry of Food and Ag iculture on the 

Board of directors of the Corporation ; 
( ii ) One director elccted by the board of directors of the Corporation 

iroin ainong the four directors reierred to in clausc ( d ) of sub 

section ( 1 ) of section 21. 
21 - A . Financial Adviser of tho Corporation . -- The Onicer appointed under Rule 
10A shall also act as the Financi ) Adv . ser of the Centrul Warehousing Corpora 
tion to advise them on all matters relating to revenue and expenditure . 


CHATTER IV 


SHAIES OF TIIC CENTRAL. WANEIOUSING CORPORATION 
22 . Shares moyeablo property , - - The shares of the Central Warehousing 
Corporation shall be moveable property . 

23. Conditions of first allotment of sharos.- ( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of 
the Act and these Rulcs, shares shall be under the control of the board of 
directors of the Corporation , 

( 2 ) The first allotment of shares shall be made by the Board of Directors in 
accordance with the provisions or section 18 to applicants , who are qualificd to 
be registered as share -holders of the Corporation . 

( 3 ) The board of directors may make nllotments to the applicants for shares 
either in full, or in part depending on the number of applicants from the class 
of shareholders concerned . In so l ar as it is practicable , the board of directors 
shall make full allotment in respect of the applications for smaller number of 
shares so that there may be as many shareholders of that class as possible . 

( 4 ) The decision of the board of directors as to whether in a particular 
application for shares there shall be full, partial or no allotment, shall 
be final. 

24 . Share Register . - ( 1 ) The Corporation shall maintain at head office, ai 
register of sharcholders qualified under the Act to be registered therein and . 
shall enter therein the following particulars: 
( a ) the name and address at which each shareholder has his principal. 

place of business ; 


1772 


THE GAZRITE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


[PART IISRO. 3 


(b ) the categorles specified in sub - section ( 2 ) of section 18 of the Act 

under which the shareholder is qualified to be so registered ; 
( c ) the date on which each person is entered as a shareholder , the manner 

in which he acquired his share and except in the case of first allot 

ment, the name of the previous holder ; 
( d ) the date on which each person ceases to be a shareholder and the 

name of the person to whom and the ledger to which the share is 

transferred . 
( 2 ) In the share register , a separate ledger shall be maintained in respect of 
each of the categories of shareholders referred to in section 18 ( 2 ) namely the 
Board , the State Bank of India , other scheduled banks, insurance companies , 
investment trusts and other classes of financial institutions and recognised 
associations and joint stock companies dealing in agricultural produce . 


28. No Joint holding of shares. -- The Corporation shall not recognise the joint 
holding of shares . 

26 . Inspection of Share Register . - ( 1 ) The share register prescribed by rule 
24, except when closed under Rule 27, shall be open to the inspection of any 
shareholder , free of charge, at the head office of the Corporation during business 
hours , subject to such reasonable restrictions as the Corporation may imposen 
but so that no less than two hours in each day may be allowed for inspection . 

( 2 ) A shareholder shall not have the right to make a copy of any entry in 
any such register by himself, but may , except when the register is closed , 
require a copy of any such register or of any part thereof, on pre - payment 
therefor , at the rate of 8 annas for every hundred words or fractional part 
thereof required to be copied , 

27 . Olosure of Share Register. - The board of directors may , by giving notice 
by advertisement, close the share register for a period of 45 days but not 
exceeding 30 days, at one time as may be necessary . 

28 . Share Certificate . - ( 1 ) Every share certificate shall be issued under the 
common seal of the Corporation . 

( 2 ) Every share certificate shall specify the number and denote numbers of 
the share in respect of which it is issued and shall be issued within 3 months 
of the date of application 

29 . Evory shareholder entitled to one free sharo certificate . - ( 1 ) The board 
and the State Bank shall each be eithtled , free of charge, to one certificate for 
all the shares registered in their name. 


( 2 ) Every shareholder other than the Board and the State Bank shall be 
entitled , free of charge, to one certificate for each 5 shares registered in its name. 
If any shareholder requires more than one certificate for each 5 shares held 
by it, it shall pay for each additional certificate , a sum of Re. 1 . A shareholder 
holding less than 5 shares shall however be entitled , free of charge, to one share 
certificate and if it requires more than one certificate, it shall pay for each 
additional certificate a sum of Re. l . 


30 . Renewal of share certificate . - ( i ) If any share certificate is worn out or 
defaced or tendered for sub - division , then upon production thereof to the head 
ofilce of the Corporation , it may order the same to be cancelled and issue a 
new certificate or certificates in lieu thereof and if any share certificate is alleged 
to be lost or destroyed , then upon production of such evidence of the loss or 
destruction thereof, as the board of directors may consider satisfactory and upon 
such indemnity with or without security as the board of directors may require , 
a new certificate in lieu thereof shall be given to the party entitled to such lost 
or destroyed certificate , provided that no such certificate shall be issued without 
first giving notice to the public insorted in local newspapers and inviting objec 
tion , if any, within a week of the notice. In case of loss or destruction , the 
person availing himself of the provisions of this rule shall also pay to the 
Corporations all expenses incidental to the investigation of evidence of loss or 
destruction and the preparation of the requisite form of indemnity as aforesaid . 

( 1 ) For every certificate issued under this rule , there shall be paid to the 
Corporation , a sum of Re. 1 , in addition to any incidental expenses, which may 
-have been incurred by it under sub - clausę ( i) . 


PART II - SEC. 3 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTODE n , 16 


1773 


31. Corporation s lon on shares . - The Central Warehowing Corporation shall 
have a first lien upon all shares registered in the name of each shareholder and 
upon the proceeds of sale thereof for its debts, liabilities and engagements , 
solely or jointly , with any other person to or with the Corporation , whether 
the period for payment, fulfilment or discharge thereof shall have actually 
arrived or not, and such lien shall extend to all dividends from time to time 
declared in respect of such sharcs . Unless otherwise agreed , the registration of 
a transfer of shares shall operate as a waiver of the Corporation s lien , if any , 
on such shares , 

32 . Disqualified Shareholder. - ( 1) It shall be the duty of any institution 
registered as a shareholder forthwith upon ceasing to be qualified to be so 
registered , to give intimation thercof to the board of directors . 

( 2 ) The Board may , at any time cause such enquiry to be made as it may 
consider necessary , for ascertaining whether any institution legistered as a 
shareholder has ccased to be so qualificd and upon being satisfied about this , it 
shall inform the shurcholder that it is not entitled to be a shareholder of the 
Corporation . The shareholder will not be further entitled to the payment of any 
dividend on any such share nor to cxercise any of the rights of a shareholder 
otherwise than for the purpose of the sale of such share and the Corporation 
shall make an entry in the register to that effect . 

( 3 ) If the Board shall find that an institution , which is not qualified to be 
a sharcholder of the Corporation , is registered by inadvertence or otherwise as 
a shareholder of the Corporation , it shall inform such shareholder that it is not 
entitled , to the payment of any dividend on any such share nor to exercise 
any of the rights of a shareholder otherwise than for the purpose of the sale of 
such share and shall make an entry in the register to that effect . The decision 
of the board under this rule as to whether an institution is qualified to be a 
shareholder or not shall be Anal. 

33. Shares may be issued subject to different conditions as to call etc . The 
Corporation may make arrangements on the issue of shares for a difference 
between the holders of such shares in the amount of calls to be paid and the 
time of payment of such calls . 

• 34 . Instalments on shares to be duly paid . -- If, by the condition of allotment 
of any share , the whole or part of the amount or issue price thereof shall be 
payable by instalments , every such instalment shall , when , due, be paid to be 
Corporation by the institution , which for the time being , shall be the registered 
holder of the share . 

35 . Trust not recognised . Save as herein otherwise provided , the Corporation 
shall be entitled to treat the registered holder of any share as the absolute 
owner thereof, and accordingly shall not except as ordered by a Court of com 
patent jurisdiction or as by statute required be bound to recognke any equitable 
or other claim to any interest in such share on the part of any other person , 

36 . Calls. - - The board of directors may , from time to time, make such calls as 
it thinks At upon the shareholders in respect of all money8 unpaid on the shares 
held by them respectively and not by the conditions of allotment thereof made 
payable at fixed times , and each shareholder shall pay the amount of every call 
so made on such shareholder to the persons and at the times and places appoint 
ed by the board of directors. 

37 . When calls deomed to have been mado. A call shall be deemed to have 
been made at the time when the resolution of the directors authorising such call 
was passed and a notice of call issued to the shareholders specifying the time 
and place of payment, and to whom such call shall be paid . At least 15 days 
time from the date of issue of such notice shall be given to the shareholders for 
such payment 

38 . When interost on call or Instalment payable . If the sux payable in 
respect of any call or instalment be not paid on or before the day appointed for 
payment thereof, the holder for the time being of the share, in respect of which 
the call shall have been made of the instalment due, shall pay interest for the 
game at the rate of rupees nine per cent, per annum from the day appointed for 
the payment thereof, to the time of the actual payment. or at such other rate, 
as the board of directors may determine. The board of directors may , in its 
absolute discretion , waive the payment of interest under the rule . 

39 . Evidence in action for call.- - At the trial or hearing of any action for the 
recovery of any money due for any call, it shall be sufficient to prove that the 
name of the shareholder sued, is entered in the register as the holdher, that the 


1774 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


[ PART II SEC. 3 


resolution making the call is duly recorded in the minute book , in pursuance of 
these rules ; and it shall not be necessary to prove the constitution of the board 
of directors, which makes such call , nor any other matter whatsoever, but the 
proof of the matter aforesaid shall be conclusive evidence of the debt. 

40 . Payment of calls in advance . — The board of directors may, if it thinks 
fit , receive from any shareholder willing to advance the same, all or any part 
of the capital due upon the shares held by such member beyond the sums actual 
ly called for; and upon the amount so paid in advance , or so much thereof as 
from time to time exceeds the amount of the calls then made upon the shares 
in respect of which such advance has been made, the Corporation may pay 
interest at such rate as the shareholder paying such sum in advance and the 
board of directors agree upon . 

41 . If call or instalment not paid notice may be given . If any shareholder 
fails to pay any call or instalment on or before the day appointed for the pay 
ment of the same, the board of directors may at any time thereafter , during 
such time as the call or instalment remains unpaid , serve a notice on such 
shareholder requiring, such shareholder to pay the same, together with any 
intercst that may have accrued and all expenses that may have been incurred 
by the Corporation , by reason of such non -payment. 

42 . Form of Notice. The notice shall name a day and a place or places on 
and at which such a call or instalment and such interest and expenses as atore 
said are to be paid . The notice shall also state that in the cyent of non - payment 
at or before the time and at the place appointed , the shares in respect of which 
the call was made or instalment is payable , will be liable to be forfeited . 

43 . If notice not complied with shares may be forfeited . If the requisitions 
of any such notice as aforesaid are not complied with , any shares in respect of 
which such notice has been given may , at any time thereafter , before payment 
of all calls or instalments , interest and expenses, due in respect thereof, be 
forfeited by a resolution of the board of directors to that effect. Such forfeiture 
shall include all dividends declared in respect of the forfeited shares , and not 
actually paid before the forfeiture. 

44 . Forfelted shares to become property of the Corporation - -- Any share so 
forfeited shall be deemed to be the propcrty of the Corporation , and the board 
of director s may sell , reallot or otherwise dispose of the same in such manner 
as they may think fit, subject to the provision of Section 18 of the Act. 

45 . Power to annul forfelture . — The board of directors may at any time before 
any shares so forfeited shall have been sold , re -allotted , or otherwise disposed 
of , annul the forfeiture thereof upon such conditions as it thinks fit , 

46 . Arrears to be paid notwithstanding forfeiture . Any shareholder , whose 
shares have been forfeited under Rule 44 , shall notwithstanding, be liable to 
pay , and shall forthwith pay to the Corporation , interest and expenses owing 
upon or in respect of such shares at the timc of the forfeiture together with 
interest thereon , from the time of forfeiture until payment at nine per cent. per 
annum and the board of directors may enforce the payment thercof, if they 
think fit 


CHAPTER V 


MISCELLANEOUS 


47. Maintenance of and operation upon Bank Accounts and investments of the 
Central Warehousing Corporation . - - ( 1 ) All moneys belonging to the Central 
Warchousing Corporation shall be deposited in the Reserve Bank or the State 
Bank of India or, subject to the sub - rules below , in such scheduled Bank or 
Co- operative Bank as may be approved for this purpose by the Central Gov 
ernment to the account of the corporation . 


( 2 ) All payments by or on behalf of the Corporation shall be made by 
chcques except for amounts not exceeding Rs. 500 which may be made in cash 
from the amount of imprest sanctioned for such purposes . 


( 3 ) Such cheques and all orders for making deposits or investments or for 
the withdrawal of the same for the disposal in any other manner or the funds 
of the corporation , shall be signed by the Managing Director or by any officer of 
the Corporation authorised by the Board in this behalf , 


PART 1--- Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


1775 


( 4 ) No payment shall be made out of the accounts of the Corporation unless 
the expenditure is covered by the financial estimate referred to in S . 36 ( 1 ) pro 
vided , however , that the Executive Committee of the Corporation may , at its 
discretion , authorise expenditure being incurred in anticipation of such cstimate . 
The statement of expenditure so incurred shall be submitted to the Board of 
Directors at its next meeting . 

( 5 ) All monctary transactions shall be entered in the cash book as soon as 
they occur and attested by an officer of the corporation duly authorized in this 
behulf . The cash book shall be closed daily und completely checked by the 
Managing Director or the officer authorised by him in this behalf. At the end 
of each month , the Managing Director or the officer so authorised, shall verify 
the cash book and the cash in hand and record a signed and dated certificate to 
that effect. 

( 6 ) All payments by the Corporation shall be made on bills or other docu 
mcnts duly prepared and passed by the Managing Director or other officer 
authorised in this behalf. The paid vorchers shall be stamped " paid " or so 
cancelled that they cannot be used a second time. They should then be kept 
serially numbered and produced at the time of audit. 

48 . Deposit in Bank or inves :ment in securities of surplus funds. - ( 1 ) Any 
funds of the Central Warehousing Corporation not required for current expendi 
ture may be placed in fixed deposit with the Reserve Bank of India or any 
scheduled or Co - operative Bank approved in this behalf by the Central Gov 
ernment or invested in the name of the Corporation in the Securities of the 
Central Government or any State Government. 

( 2 ) Thc placing of money in fixed deposit and the investment thereof and 
the disposal of money so placed or invested shall require the sanction of the 
Executive Committee of the Corporation . 

49. The expenses of the Board shall be met from such amount as the Central 
Government may, grant to the Board . 

80 . Annual statement of Accounts . The books of the board shall be balanced 
on the last working day of the month of March in each year and the annual 
statement of accounts shall be set out as in Form " A " . 

51. Returns and Reports . -- ( a ) The returns, statements and other particulars 
to be furnished by the Board , under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 15 in regard to 
the discharge of its functions under the Act , shall be in the Form " B " and they 
shall be submitted every half year to the Central Government. 

(b ) The Board shall submit to the Central Government on annual report of 
its activities , policies and programmes during the previous year within three 
months from the expiry of the period to which the report relates. Such a report 
shall be in Form " C " . 

52 . Annual statement of accounts and Balance Sheet. — The Board of Directors 
shall cause the books of the Central Warchousing Corporation to be balanced on 
the last working day of the month of March in cach year and the annual acco 
unts shall be set out as follows: 

( a ) a balance shect in Form " D " . 
( b ) a profit and loss account for the year in Form " E " . 


FORM A 

Rule 50 ) 
NATIONAL CO - OPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT AND WAREHOUSING FOARD 

Annual Consolidated Statement of Account as at 3151 March 


Receipts 


Expenditurc 


I . Opening Balance . 
2 . Grants received from the Central Goyerninent. 

(a ) Recurring 
( h ) Non - recurring 

( c ) Additional 
* 3. Any othermoney received by the Board . 
4 . Loans répald . 


I. Contribution to Shure Capital of Central 

warehousing Corporation . 
2 . Other investments . 
3 . Loans to 

( 1 ) State Govts . 
(ii ) Central Warehousing Corporation . 
(111) State Warehousing Corporations. 


1776 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1958 


[ PART II Sec. 


Receipts 


Expenditure 


5 . Advances repaid . 
6 . Dividend on 

(1) Shares of Central Warchousing Corporation . 

( 11 ) Other investments, 
7 . Interest on -- 
(1 ) Loans to 

( a ) State Govts . 
(1 ) Central Warehousing Corporation . 

( c ) Sar: Warehousing Corporation , 
111) Advances to 

(4 ) State Governments . 
(6 ) Central Warehousing Corporation 

( c ) State Warehousing Corporations, 
( 111) Bank accounts. 
8 . Miscellancous, 


* 4 . Advances to 

1) State Governments . 
(12) Central Warehousing Corporation . 

(iii) State Warchousing Corporations . 
5 . Subsidies to 

(1) State Governments . 
(ii ) Central Warehousing Corporation . 

( 111) State Warehousing Corporations. 
6 . Administration . 
11) Salary & allowances of the Secrctar y 

& other staff. 
( ii ) Tecs. Travelling & daily allowances 

of members . 
(in ) Kent, Rates , Taxes . 
( iv ) Dead Stock . 
( 0 ) Printing & Stationery . 

( 12 ) Contingencies . 
7 . Miscellaneous Expenses. 
8 . Balance on hand , 


* This will include advances that may be received or made while acting as agent of the Go 
vernment for purchase of Agricultural Produce under Section 912 )( b ). 


Form I Uniler Form A 
" NATIONAL CO -OPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT FUND " 


Receipts 


Expenditure 


1. Opening Balance . 
2 . Grant from the Board . 
3 . Repayment of loans by State Governments. 
4 . Interest on loans to State Governments, 
5 . Interest on investments , 
6 . Miscellancous Receipts . 


I. Loans to State Governments . 
2 . Subsidies to State Governments . 
3 . Investments. 
4 . Administrative Expenses . 
5 . Miscellancou s Expenses . 
6 . Balance on hand . 


Form II under Form A 
" NATIONAL WAREHOUSING DEVELOPMENT FUND " 


Receipts 


Expenditure 


1 . Opening Balance. 
2 . Grant from the Board . 


3 . Rcpayment of loans from 

(1) Central Warehousing Corporation . 
(ii ) State Warehouşing Corporations, 

( itt ) State Governments , 
4 . Interest on investments . 
5 . Dividend on shares of Central Warehousing 

Corporation . 
6 . Miscellaneous Receipts . 


1. Contribution to the Share Capital of 

Central Warehousing Corporation . 
2 . Loans to 

( ) Ştate Govts . 
( ii ) Central Warehousing Corporation , 

( int) State Warehousing Corporations. 
3 . Subsidies to 

(0 ) Central Warehousing Corporation . 
( ii ) State Warehousing Corporaticns. 
( 111) State Governments . 
4 . Investments. 
5 . Administrative Expenses. 
6 . Miscellaneous Expenses . 
7 . Balance on hand . 


PART 11 – SEC. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1856 


1771 


FORM B 

[ See Rule 51 (a ) ] 
Returns and Statements under Section 13 ( 1 ) of the Act 
1. Grants received from Central Government 

( a ) Opening balance 
( b ) Grants received during the year . 

( c ) Total 
2 . Contribution to the share capital of the Central Warehousing Corporation 
3 . Loans to : 
A : - State Governments for subscribing to the share capital of - 
(1) Marketing Societies 

( a ) Primary 
(b ) Regional 

( c ) Apex 
( 1 ) Processing Societies 
( 111) State Warehousing Corporation 

( iv ) Other Cooperative Societies 
B : --- State Governments for Anancing construction of warehouses and / or 
godowns of - 

(1) Large Sized Societies 
(ii ) Marketing Societies 
( iii ) Processing Societies 
( iv ) Regional Marketing Societies 
( v ) Apex Marketing Societies 
( v1) Other Cooperative Societies 
C : State Governments for giving loans for purchase of transport vehicles 
by 

( i) Large - sized Societies 
( ii ) Marketing Societies 
( iii ) Processing Societies 

( iv ) Other Cooperative Societies 
4 . Subsidies to : 

(a ) State Governments for financing construction of Warehouses and / or 
godowns ofm 

(1) Large - sized Societies 
( 11) Primary Marketing Societies 
( ii ) Regional Marketing Societies 
( iv ) Apex Marketing Societies 
( v ) Processing Societies 
( vi) Other Cooperative Societies 
( vii) State Warehousing Corporation 

( b ) State Governments for making grants to meet expenses of management 
of 

(1) Large -sized Societies 
( ii ) Central Financing Agencies 
( iii) Apex Bank 
( iv ) Central or Apex Land Mortgage Bank 
( v ) Marketing Societies 
( vi) Processing Societies 
( vii) Other Cooperative Societies 


1778 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1986 


(PART II - SEC. 3 


( c ) State Governments for meeting the cost of additional departmental 
staff 


5 . Advunces for purchases made on behalf of Government to : 

( i) State Governments 
( ii) Central Warchousing Corporation 
( iii ) State Warehousing Corporations 


FORM C 
[ See Rule 51 (b ) ] 

Report under Section 15 ( 2 ) 
The report shall be in the form of narrative and shall contain : - 

1 . Gencral review and economic appraisal of the achievement of the plans 
of development of ( a ) Agricultural Credit, ( b ) Marketing, ( c ) Processing , ( d ) 
Farming and ( e ) Warehousing , as well as the beneficial results obtained and 
difficulties experienced . 
2 . Role played by 

( 1) The Reserve Bank of India . 
( 2 ) The State Bank of India 
( 3 ) The Central Committee for Cooperative Training 
( 4 ) All India Cooperative Union 
( 6 ) Industrial Finance Corporation . 
(6 ) Different Committees like the Indian Central Cotton / Jute / Cocoanut ! 

Lac / Tobacco /Oil -Seeds Committees. 
3 . Policies adopted in planning and promoting programmes of production . 
4 . Activities of 

( i ) Large-sized Societies 
( ii ) Marketing Societies 
( iii) Processing Societies 
( iv ) Farming Societies 
( v ) Central Warehousing Corporation 

( vi ) State Warehousing Corporation . 
5 . Subsidiary statements and schedules, as may be decided by the Board 
from time to time. 


FORM ‘ D 

[See Rule 52 ] 
CENTRAL WAREHOUSING CORPORATION 

Balance Sheet as at 31st March . 


Capital and liabilities 


Property and Assets 


I 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


I. Capital 

1) Authorised . . 
(it) Issued . 
( 111) Subscribed - 
( a ) National Cooperative Develop 

ment & Warehousing Bourd . 
( b ) State Bank of India , 
(c ) Scheduled Banks . 
( d ) Cooperative Societies . 
( e ) Insurance Companies . 
(1 ) Investment Trusts 


1 . Cash on hand 
2 . Cash in Banks- - 
(a ) The Reserye Bank of India 
(6 ) The State Bank of India 
(C ) Scheduled Banks 
( d ) Cooperative Banks 
3 . Investments 
( a ) Central Govt. Securities 
( ) State Govt. Securitics 
( c ) State Warehousing Corpora 

tion shares. 
( d ) Other investments 


Part II —SC 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1968 


1779 


I 


4 . Fixed Assets . 


v ) Lands 
(ii) Building 
(11) Godowns & Warehouses 


( 9 ) Financial Institutions , 
( h ) Recognised Associations deal 

ing in Agricultural Produce . 
(1) Joint Stock Companics dealing 

in Agricultural Produce . 
(iv ) Paid un 
2 . Calls in arrcars 
3 . Reserve Fund under section 40 ( 1 ) - 
4 . Bad and Doubtful Debts Fund under 

Section 4002 ) . 
5 . Other funds . 
6 . Bonds & Debentures , 
7 . Borrowings from 


5 . Guarantees by Govt. per 

contra . 


6 . Value of Dead Stock 


7 . Advances to State Warehous 
ing Corporations & Coopera 

tive Societies for purchasc 
of agricultural commodities 
under section 25 ( c ). 
8 . Estimated value of stocks held 

as agent of Govt . 


9 . Other items. 


(1) The Reserve Bank of India under S. 

3712 )(1 )( a ). 
( ii ) The Reserve Bank of India under 

S . 37 ( 2 ) ( i) (b ) . 
(iii) The State Bank of India under 

S . 37 ( 2 )( ii) . 
(iv ) Central Govt . under S . 37 (3 ) . 

( v ) Board under S . 37 (3 ) 
8 . Advances received for purchase of 

Agricultural Commodities , . 
9 . Liability [ S . 19 ( (i) under guarantees 

by Government per contra 
10 . Provision for taxes . 
II. Other liabilities 
12 . Suspense 
13 . Other items 
14 . Profit and long account 


TOTAL 


. 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


FORM E 

(Rule 52 ) 
CENTRAL WAREHOUSING CORPORATION 
Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 3151 March . 
Rs. A . P . Rs. A . P . 

Rs. A . P . Rs. A . P . 


I . Warehousing charges 


. 


2 . Interest on 


( a ) Securities 
( 6 ) Bank Accounts . 
(c ) Advances , 
( d ) Loans from the Board 


I. Interest on 
(1 ) Loans from the Rescrve 

Bank of India , 
(6 ) Loans from the State 

Bank of India 
( c ) Bonds . 

d ) Debentures 
2 . Establishment 
3 . Directors fecs , etc . 
4 . Rent , Rates , Taxes 
5 . Depreciation 
6 . Repairs 
7 . Bad & Doubtful Debs Fund 
8 . Auditors fees or remunera 

tion . . . 
9 . Stationery , printing etc . 
10 . Miscellancous expenses . 

Net profit c /d . 


3 . Subsidies received from 

the Board . . 


. 


4 . Dividend on shares held 

in State Warehousing 
Corporation 


5 . Other income, including 

[ agency commission . 
Netlloss B / D . . . 


[No . F . 1 - 9 /56 Coop I.] 
KRISHAN CHAND , Jt . Secy . 


73 


THE GAME OF INDIA, OCTOBR 27, 1966 


(PART 11- . 


LONNIER 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 17th October 1958 
S . R . O . 2409 . - In exerolse of the powers conferred by section read with section 
16 of the Essential Commodities Act , 1965 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendment in the Madras Rice Mills Licensing 
Order, 1956 panely : 

Amendment 
In the sald Order, after sub - clause ( 4 ) of clause 11 - A , the following sub 
clause (5 ) shall be inserted , namely : 

“ (5 ) Peading the disposal of an appeal or application for revision , the Com 
missioner of Civil Supplies or the State Government as the case may be, may 
by order direct that 

( 1) the order refusing to grant or renew a licence; or 
( ii) the order cancelling or suspending a llcence, shall not take effect 

pending the disposal of the appeal or the application for revision 
Aled against guch order ." 

( NO. 204 ( ) /58- PY . II . ) 
S . N . BHALLA , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi- 2, the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2410 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (p ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 6 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (5 of 1908 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendment in the Indian Port Health Rules , 1955 , 
namely : 

In APPENDIX 4 to the said Rules, for the tabular form the following shall be 
substituted namely : 


Date 


Show by " X " whether : 


Signature and professional Approved stamp 
status of vaccinator 

Cachet d authenti 
Signature et qualite profes - fication 

sionnelle du vaccinateur 


Indiquer par " X " s il s agit de : 


Primary vaccination performed 


19 


1b 


Primoyaccination effectute 


Rend as successful Prise 
Unsuccessful Pas de prise 


Rencdaation 


Revaccination 


Revaccination 


Revaccination 


Revaccination 


Revaccination 


[NO, F . 15 -8 / 56 - 1. H . ) 


PART 11 - SEC . 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1988 


1781 


- 


S . R . O . 2411 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8A of the Indian 
Aircraft Act 1994 ( 22 of 1934 ), the Central Government hereby makeg the following 
amendment in the Indian Aircraft (Public Health ) Rules , 1954, namely : 


In SCHEDULE V to the said Rules, for the tabular form the following shall be 
substituted namely : 


Date 


Show by " X " whether : 


Signature and professional Approved stamp 

status of vaccinator 


Indiquer par " X " si il s agit de : 


Signature et qualite 
professionnelle du 

vaccinateur 


Cachet 
d authentification 


Il 


Primary vaccination performed 

Perimovaccination effectuce 


Ib 


Read as successful Prise 

Unsuccessful Pas de prise 


Revaccination 


Revaccination 


Revaccination 


5 


Revaccination 


6 


Revaccination 


7 


Revaccination 


[NO, F . 18 - 14 / 56 - 1.H .) 


A . T . SESHADRI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 19th October , 1956 


8 .R . O . 2412 -- Dr. K . L . Wig , M .R .C .P ., Principal, Medical College , Amritsar 
and Dean , Medical Faculty of the Punjab University , has been duly elected as a 
member of the Medical Council of India under clausę (b ) of Sub - section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1933 (XXVII of 1933 ) , with effect 
from the 13th October , 1956, vice Dr. Tulsi Das. 


[No. F .5 - 86 / 56- M .1. ) 


1782 


[ PART II — SEC. 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1936 
= = = 

New Delhi -2 , the 22nd October 1956 


$ . R . O . 2413 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Charit 
able Endowments Act, 1890 ( 6 of 1890 ) , the Central Government hereby makes 
the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India , Ministry 
of Health No. F .4 - 3 ( 2 ) / 53 -MI, dated the 12th June, 1953: 

At the end of Schedule I to the said notification , after the heading "Held 
against Overdraft Account and the entry relating thereto , the following heading 
and entry shall be inserted , namely : 


" Donation Funds 


Face value 


Source from which 

donation derived . 


Rs. 15 , 000 


Government of India 31 % IC 
Year Treasury Savings Deposit 
Certificates. 


Privalc donations from 
philanthropists who sym 
pathised with the aims 
and objects of the insti 
lution . 


(No. F .4 -60 / 56 -MII. ] 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi-2 , the 20th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2414 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( ii ) of clause 
( b ) of section 3 of the Drugs Act, 1940 ( 23 of 1940 ) , the Central Government 
hereby specifies as drugs the following substances namely : 

( a ) Chemical Contraceptives ; and 


(b ) the following Insecticides : 

(1) Dicophane ( Dichloro Diphenyl Trichloroethene ) and its formulations. 
( ii) Pyrethrum and its preparations. 


[No. F .1- 10 / 56 - D .] 
N . B . CHATTERJI, Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 


( Transport Wing ) 


PORTS 


New Delhi, the 11th October 1956 


S . R . O . 2415 . — In cxercise of the powers conferred by clauses (b ) and ( c ) of 
section 5 of the Bombay Landing and Wharfage Fees Act, 1882 ( Bombay Act VII 
of 1882 ) as applied to the Port of Kandla by the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Transport No. 14 - P ( 89 ) / 49 - 1, dated the 29th 
June 1950 , the Central Government hereby declares the following two cargo 
Jetty berths, as public landing places and determines the limits of these landing 
places as these indicated in the table below against them , in addition to the 
public Landing places previously declared by notification No . 14 - P ( 35 ) / 50 , dated 
the 23rd January 1951 read with notifications No. 4 - PII ( 3 ) /51 dated the 6th June 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 1783 
= = = 
1951, No. 4 - PII ( 1 ) /53 dated the 29th September 1953 and No. 4 -PII (5 ) / 54 
dated the 15th March 1955 , namely : 


- - - 


Name of the landing 

place 


General descriprion 


For the landing and 

shipment of 


Limits 


I . Cargo Jetty berth 

No. I . 


A reinforced cement con - General merchandise 

crcte structure support other than explo 
ed on R . C . C . Piles wich: sioes and dangerous 
Joo tons double bollar petroleum . 
dy and handing fen 
ders every 75 feet, 
served with railway 
tracks, one transit shed 
and one warehouse and 
3 and 6 ton electric 
crancs . Available depth 
of water at L . W . O . S . T . 
along quay face is 32 


Bounded on the 
north by the nor 
thern end of the 
cargo jetty , on the 
east by Kandla 
Crcek , on the 
south by cargo 
jctty berth No. 2 
and on the west by 
reclaimed land . 


feet. 


2 . Cargo Jecty Berth 


Do. 


Do. 


No. 2 . 


Bounded on the 

north by cargo 
jetty berth No. I 
on the cast by 
Kandla Creck , on 
the south by cargo 
jetty berth No. 3 
and on the west by 
reclaimed land . 


[No. 4 -PII ( 4 ) 756 .] 
T. S . PARASURAMAN, Dy. Secy . 


( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 16th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2416 . — In exrecise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of 
section 3 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (XV of 1908 ) the Central Government is 
pleased to authorise Shri M , D . Sassoon , Probationery Pilot, Kandla Port to 
pilot vessels upto 7,500 tons gross during day light only , in and out of the Port 
of Kandla . 

[ No . 2 -PII ( 100 ) / 56 . ] 


New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2417 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 6 
of the Indian Ports Act , 1908 ( 15 of 1908 ) , the Central Government hereby directs 
that with effect from the 1st December , 1956 , the following further amendments 
shall be made in the Port Rules for the Port of Vizagapatam published with the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Department of Commerce No. 
222 P & L ( 19 ) / 31 ( 1 ), dated the 23rd September , 1933, the same having been pre 
viously published as required by sub - section ( 2 ) of the said section , namely : 
In the said rules, after rule 12 , the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" 12 - A . No person shall , except under the authority of a written permit 

granted by the Superintendent, Traffic 
( a ) have or carry with him a camera for taking photographs or any material 

for making a sketch , plan , model or other devices , or 
(b ) take any photographs or make any sketch , plan or model of any movable 

or immovable object or building or installation within any dock area , 


1784 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBLAR 27, 1986 


[ PART X - Bac : 


Explanation . For purposes of this rule, the expression " dock arer " shall consist 
of the following : 

(1) The Dry Dock area between the eastern and western boundary walls , 
( 11) The quay Wall area enclosed by Customs boundary wall , 
( til) The coal and all wharves and Jettles enclosed by barbed wire fencing , 

and 
( iv ) The eastern fore - shore of the Turning Basin from the Southern Lighter 
Canal to the Narrow Gauge Railway gate ." 

[No. 17 -P111 ( 9 )/ 56. ) 
K , BALAKRISHNAN , Under Secy . 


( Transport Wing ) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2418 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 of the Indian 
Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following further amendment in the rules regulating the granting of certificates 
of competency to engineers (including motor engineers ), published with the noti 
fication of the Government of India in the Ministry of Transport, No . S . R . O . 240 
dated the 9th February , 1952, namely : 

In APPENDIX D to the said rules , under the heading " ( I) Day Classes and the 
gub -heading " Name of School or Institution " , after the entry "Melbourne- University 
of Melbourne" , the following entry shall be inserted , namely :--- 
" II Melbourne - Caulfield Technical School, Caulfield East, Melbourne 
Australia ." 

[No. 67 - M . A .( 16 ) / 58. ) 
S . K . GHOSH , Dy. Sery . 


one beadIPENDIX 


( Transport Wing ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2419 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 3 ) of section 1 
of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (4 of 1999) , the Central Government hereby directe 
that the provisiong of Chapter VIII of that Act relating to Insurance of Motor 
Vehicles against Third Party Risks shall have effect on and from the 29th October. 
1956, in all Part B States to which the said Act extends, except the State of 
Travancore-Cochin . 

[No. 36 - T ( 8 ) / 58 . ) 
D , D . SURI, Dy sety . 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 


New Delhi, the 20th October , 1956 


S . R . O . 2420. - The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 1 ) 
and ( 3 ) of section 10A of the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 ( 7 of 
1904 ) , is published as required by sub - section ( 2 ) of the said section , for the 
Information of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration by the Central Govern 
ment on or after the 31st December, 1956 , 

Any objections or suggestions which may be reçelved from any person with 
respect to the said draft by the Secretary to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Education , New Delhi, betore the date atoresaid , will be considered 
by the Central Government, 


PART II --$ cc. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


1785 


zuen ibero males con encantos de inteles de evaluatie stered to 


Draft Rules 
Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that mining , quarrying , 
excavating, blasting and other operations of a like nature should be restricted 
and regulated for the pu - pose of protecting and preserving the ancient monu 
ment in the Island of Elephanta , District Kolaba, in the State of Bombay ; 

Now therefore in cxercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 1 ) and 
( 3 ) of section 10A of the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 ( 7 of 1904 ) , 
the Central Government hereby makes the following rules , namely : 

( 1) These rules may be called the Elephanta Island ( Protected Monuments ) 
Rules , 1956 . 

( 2 ) They apply to the area specified in the Schedule (hereinafter referred to 
as the area .) 

( 3 ) They shall come into force at once. 

2 . No person shall, after the commencement of these rules , carry on in the 
area any mining , quarrying , excavating, blasting or other operation of a like 
nature , cxcept under a licence granted by the Superintendent, Department of 
Archacology , South Western Circle , Aurangabad (hereinafter referred to as the 
Superintendent ) and in accordance with these rules. 

3 . The terms on which a licence may be granted to carry on any of the said 
operations shall be as follows : 

( a ) Within a radius of half a mile of cave No . 1 Survey No . 66 and of Brick 
Stupa in new Survey No . 67, none of the said operations, except minor quarry 
ing operations not involving blasting, for domestic purposes or village needs, 
shall take place . 

( b ) Outside the radius of half a mile referred to in clause ( a ) the Superinten 
dent may in consultation with the Inspector of Mines of the Government of India 
require that the said operations shall be carried on subject to such restrictions 
relating to the muffing of sound , the kind and charge of blasting materials and 
the depth and number , of blast holes to be fired at a time, as he may think fit 
to impose . 

( c ) The licensee shall give the Superintendent notice in writing - ( 1) of not 
less than one month before commencing the said operations and ( ii) in the 
event of the resumption of the said suspended operations after their suspension , 
a notice pf not less than one week before resuming them . 

( d ) The licencee shall get the demarcation line of the said operations Axed at 
his own cost through the Superintendent before commencing them . 

( e ) The Superintendent may suspend or cancel a licence for a breach of any 
of the terms thereof or 11 , in his opinion , the continuance of the said operations 
will endanger the protected monuments . 

4 . Any person committing a breach of these rules shall be punishable with 
Alne which may extend to two hundred rupees . 

THE SCHEDULE 
Boundaries of the area to which the rules will apply 


East 
West 
North 
South 


Arabian Sea . 
Arabian Sea and parts of Survey Nos, 2 , 3 , 4 , and 59 . 

[No. F .4 -13 / 53 - C .1. ] 
D . CHAKRAVARTI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF PRODUCTION 


New Delhi, the 15th October 1956 


S . R . O . 2421, - In puſsuance of sub - rule ( I ) of Rule 48 of Order XXI of the First Schedule 
to the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 ( V of 1908 ) the Central Government hereby appoints the 
officers specified in column I of the table below as officers to whom notice of orders attaching the 
salaries and allowances of the officers specified in the Corresponding entries in column 2 of the 
said table shall be sent . 


1786 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


[ PART II — SEC 3 


TABLE 


Officers to whom notice should be sent 


Officers whose salarics and allowances 

are attached 


2 


Deputy Accountant General, Production , Com - Gazelled officers in the office of the Salt 
merce & Industry , New Delhi, 

Commissioner , New Delhi, R . S . S . Division , 
Mining Enginecr, (Mandi Salt Circle ), 

Mandi, 
Asstt . Accounts Officer, Production , Commerce Gazetted offices in Madrus and Bombay 
& Industry , Bombay . 

Regions . 
Asstt . Accounts Officer, Production , Comincrcc Gazelled officers in Calcutta Rovion . 

& Industry , Calcutta . 
Asstt. Salt Conunissioner (Adm ), Office of the Non -Gazetted oflivers in the uffice of Salt 
Salt Commissioner, New Delhi. 

Cominissioner , New Delhi, 
Mining Enginecr , Mandi . ,. ., . Non -Gazetted 

. Non - Gazetted officers in 

omheers in the 

the Mandi Salt 

Circle , Mandi, 
General Manager, R . S . S . Division , Sambhar Non - gazatied staff in thc office of the R . S . S . 
Lake. 

Division cxcept Didwana and Pachhadra 

Circles . 
Superintendent of Salt , Didwana . . Non - gazelled start in Didivanu Circle . 
Superintendent of Salt , Pachbadra 

Non - gazetted staff in Paçthudra Circle. 
Deputy Salt Commissioner , Bombay . Non - guzetted Staff in the office of the Deputy 

Salt Commissioner , Bombay . 
Assistant Salt Commissioner , Thana . ] 
Assistant Salt Commissioner , Jamnagar . Non - gazetied stuff in their respective offices. 
Assistant Salt Commissioner, Kharagodha j 
Superintendent Cum - Chief Chemist, Wadala Non - gazetted staff in his circle. 
Superintendent of Salt, Bhayandar Circle 

Do. 
Superintendent of Sali , Bhandup Circle . 

Du. 
Superintendent of Salt , Uran Circle 
Superintendent of Salt , Dharangdhra Circle 

Do , 
Deputy Salt Comtnissioner, Madras 

Non - gazetted staff in his office . 
Asstt. Salt Commissioner, Tuticorin , 
Asstt . Salt Commissioner , Kakineda . 

Do . 
Superintendent of Salt , Cuddalore Circle 

Non - uzetted statt in his circle . 
Superintendent of Sali, Nagercoil Circle 

Do. 
Superintendent of Salt , Peninuguduru Circle 

Do. 
Superintendent of Salt, Tuticorin Circle 

Do. 
Superintendent of Salt , Naupada Circlc . 

Io. 
Superintendent of Salt , Madras Circle . 
Asstt. Salt Commissioner, Calcutta . . Nor - gazetted staff in Caicutta Rexion except 

Furma Circle , 
Superintendent of Salt , Hunima Circlc . Non - gazcited stuff in his circle . 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


(No. 6 /6156 - Salt. ) 
S . R . SUNDARAM , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 16th October. 1956 
8 . R . O . 2422 , In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 4 of tho Colliery 
Control Order , 1945 , as continued in force by section 16 of the Essential Com 
modities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Production , No. S . R .O . 1568 , dated the 5th July , 1956 , 
namely : 

In the said notification , for item ( ii) (which relates to the prices under table 
II ) of the Note , the following items shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( ii ) The prices given under table II, except those in respect of collieries 

mentioned against serial numbers 22 to 26 , are for delivery free on 
rail at, or at the loading point nearest to , the colliery or free on road 
vehicle at the colliery ; in the case of the collieries mentioned against 


PART II - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1958 


1787 


serial Nos 22 to 26 , the prices so given are for delivery free on rail : 
and in all cases the prices given in the table are inclusive of all 
charges . " 


[No. 4 - CI (11) / 56 . ) 
A . NANU , Dy . Secy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 27th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2423 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10) of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further Amendment in the Order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Production , No . S .R .O . 1299, dated the 10th June, 1955 , namely : 
In the Schedule annexed to the said Order , against Serial No . 1, under 

column 4 with the heading " Purpose " , for the words " against the 
quotas fixed by the Central Government" and " against the quotas 
fixed by the Central Government from time to time" , the words 
" otherwise than against the Central Government s quota " and " From 
time to time otherwise than against the Central Government s quota " 
shall be substituted , respectively , 

[No. 18 -CI( 3 )/ 56 .) 
P , N . DHIR , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2424 . -- The following draft of certain further amendments to the Indian 
Aircraft Rules , 1937 , which the Central Government propos : to make in exercise 
of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian Alrcrult Act , 1934 ( 22 of 1934) , 
is published , as required by section 14 of the said Act , for the information of all 
persons likely to be allected thereby , and notice is hereby given that the said draft 
will be taken into consideration on or after the 25th January , 1957 , 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with res 
pect to the said draft before the date so specified , will be considered by the Central 
Government. 

Draft Amendment 
For clause (i) to the proviso to paragraph 2 of Section C of Schedule VIII to the 
said Rules , the following shall be substituted , namely : -- 
" ( 1) a minimum of 500 hours fying experience as Co - pilot , but not as super 

numerary , on multi -engined aircraft of which at least 10 hours shall 
be by night" . 

[No. 10 - A / 38 -56 . ) 
M . DAYAL , Dy , Secy . 


(Posts & Telegraphs ) 

New Delhi, the 20th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2425 - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 43 of the Indian 
Post Office Act, 1898 (6 of 1898 ) ; the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the Indian Post Office Rules , 1933 . 

For rule 125 of the said Rules , the following rule shall be substituted, 
namely 
" 125 . If the payce of a money order refuses to take payment on presenta 

tion of the money order to him , the amount of the money order 

shall be returned at once to the remitter , free of charge: 
Provided that if the payee, while refusing to take payment on presentation 

of the money order to him makes an application in writing to the 
post office of delivery for the detention of the money order , or if 


1788 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1936 


[ PART II - SEC. 3 


the payee is not found at the address given on the money order, the 
money order shall be detained in the post office for a period not 
exceeding seven days from the date of its presentation to the payee 
or from the date it is sent out for payment, as the case may be . It 
the payee fails to take payment of the money order from the post 
office within the said period of seven days, the money order shall 
be returned to the remitter on the first working day immediately 

following the expiry of the said period of seven days : 
Provided further that the commission shall in no case be refunded ." 

[No. C .11- 5 / 55 . ] 


New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2426 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian Post Office 
Act, 1898 ( 6 of 1898 ) , the Central Government hereby makes with effect from 
the 1st December 1956 the following further amendment to the Indian Post Office 
Rules, 1933 , namely : 
In rule 83 of the said Rules for the words " one Rupee " the words " lwo 
rupees " shall be substituted , 

[ No. C .7- 1/ 53.) 
V . M . BHIDE, Dy, Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 9th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2427. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
4 of the Evacuee Interest ( Separation ) Act , 1951, the Central Government hereby 
appoints for the State of Bhopal, Shri R . S . Saxena , Sub -Divisional Magistrate , 
Bhopal, as Competent Offcer , for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed 
on the competent ofcer by or under the said Act , within the said State , with 
effect from the 20th August, 1956 . 

[ No. 16 ( 34 ) / 56 -Prop .I. ] 
J . J, KARAM , Under Secy , 


New Delhi, the oth October 1956 
S . R . O . 2428 ,-- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( g ) of section 2 of 
the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , 
the Central Government hereby specifies the following tribal areas adjoining the 
North West Frontier Province for the purposes of the said clause, namely : 

Tribal areas of Malakand, Khybor , 
North Waziristan and South Waziristan , 

(No. F . 9 / 7 / 56 - SI. ] 


New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2429. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( No. 44 of 1954) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Nagendra 
Bahadur, I. A . S . as Chief Settlement Commissioner , for the purpose of performing 
the functions assigned to such Commissioner by or under the said Act. This 
appointment shall have effect during the period Shri L . J. Johnson , I. C . S . is 
on leave, 

[No. 5 / 45 /66 - SII .] 


S . R . O . 2430 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of Sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Clalms) Şupplementary Act, 1954 ( 12 of 1954 ), 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Nagendra Bahadur, I. A . S , as 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTI OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1968 : 


1789 


Chief Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such Commissioner by or under the said Act, This appointment shall 
have effect during the period Shri L . J. Johnson , I.C . S ., is on leave . 

[No. 5 / 45 / 55- SIL ) 
I. N . CHIB , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 15th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2431. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (No . 44 of 
2954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri B . P . Mathur as Settlement 
Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officer by or 
under the said Act , with effect from the date he took charge of his office . 

(No. 3 / 15 / 88 -SII .) 
S . R . O . 2432 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(No. 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri R . C . Takru as 
Assistant Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officer by or under the said Act , with effect from the date he 
took charge of his office . 

[No. 5 / 27 / 56 -SII. ) 
New Delhi, the 16th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2433. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 (No. 44 
of 1954) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri H . S . Kamlant as Settle 
ment Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officer 
by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge of his office . 

[No . 3 / 15 /56 - SII. ) 
S . R . O . 2484. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government has appointed the officers, whose names 
are mentioned in the Annexure, as Assistant Settlement Officers , for the 
purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officers, by or under the 
said Act, with effect from the date they took charge of their posts . 

The officers mentioned against Serial Nos. 3 , 12, 15 , 37 , 48 , 53, 60 , 64 , 68 , 
69 , 73, 74 , 79 , 81, 95 , 108, 115 , 144 and 166 of the annexure , ceased to hold their 
respective offices with effect from the dates on which they demitted office, 


NEXURE 


Serial No. 


Name of the persons appointed . 


I Shri R . M . Saldanhu 
2 Shri T . C . Bagai 

Shri G . A . Thadhani 
4 Shri T , C . Datta 

Shri R . L . Mansukhani 
6 Shri R . N . Dhingra 
7 Shri S . Narula 
8 Shri M , M . Lal 
9 Shri Madan Singh 
IO Shri D , C . Nanda 
1 Shri Des Raj Katyal 
12 Shri Jyoti Sarup 
13 Shri S , S , Govila 
14 Shri H . L . Goswami 

Shri H , L . Lcekha 
6 Shri Agia Ram 
17 Shri B . S . Dubey 
18 Shri Uma Data 
19 Shri Baldev Kishan 


OVODQUAWNH 


1796 


THE GARBITE OF INDIA , OCTOBRE 27, 1936 


(PART II— Stc. 3 


Serial No. 


Name of the persons appointed 


20 Shri J. S . Sehgal 
21 Shri Arjan Nath 
22 Shri S . C . Jain 

Shri P . C . Baijal 
24 Shri S . P . Gupta 

Shri H . P . Asthana 

Shri H . C . Raina 
27 Shri I . D . Gera 
28 Shri Nand Kumar 
29 Shri R . K . Gupta 
30 Shri O . P . Girotra 
31 Shri K . C . Jain 

Shri R . N . Sehgal 
Shri S . P . Sahni 
Shri S . A , Kidwai 
Shri Prem Narain 
Shri D . N , Segal 
Shri Chhotey Lal 

Shri A . N . Dutt 
39 Shri S . P . Sood 
40 Shri Piyare Lal Sood 
41 Shri B . P . Mathur 
42 Shri M . R . Bhagat 

Shri J. C . Gulati 
Shri S . R . Shivnani 
Shri R . L . Mahindroo 
Shri Joga Singh 
Shri Zaheerun Nabi 
Shri H . G . Bala 

Shri Ambcshangar Trivedi 
30 Shri V , D . Kapur 

Shri Dhalu Ram 
Shri Lachman Das Jawa 
Shri K . L . Wadhwan 
Shri V , N . Gidwani 
Shri Tarlochan Singh 
Shri Gobind Ram Virmani 
Shri Harish Chandra 
Shri Sardari Lal Jalo 
Shri J . P . Malhotra 
Shri K , N . Iggar 
Shri S . C . Dewan 
Shri V . S . Bhatnagar 

Shri M , L , Mathur 
64 Shri K . B . Lal 

Shri E . N . Sinclair 
Shri Attar Lal Bahl 
Shri Raghubir Singh 
Shri V . N . Handa 
Shri D . S . Mathur 
Shri Vidya Sagar Jha 
Shri T . P . Singh Anand 
Shri O . N . Choudhary 
Shri Benarşi Lal Basho 
Shri C . P , Kapur 
Shri Shiva K , Talwar 
Shri Raghubang Shanker 

Shri Sohan Singh 
78 Shri A . S . Bhatnagar 

Shri D . R , Dhall 
Shri Kesar Singh Bhatia 
Shri Parmatma Sahai 
Shri R , N . Aggarwala 
Shri Arjan Singh Bains 
Shri J . P . Sharma 

Shri R . N , Mathur 
86 Shri S . B . Lal 
87 Shri B . R , Dewan 


76 


79 


80 


0 


PART H — SE¢. 3 ] 


THE GAZETIC OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1958 


1791 


Serial No. 


Name of the persons appointed 


92 


97 


88 Shri Radha Krishan 
89 Shri A . B . Lal 
90 Shri N , Singh Bawa 
91 Shri P , N , Seth 

Shri Pritam Singh 
Shri Amar Singh 
Shri R K Kapoor 

Shri N . K . Sharma 
96 Sluri K . L . Sachdeva 

Shri A . K . Paul Chaudhry 
98 Shri Sateshwar Dayal Galgotia 
99 Shri K , B , Chaudhry 
100 Shri M , P . Mista 
IOI Shri Santokh Singh Uppal 
102 Shri M , M . Lal 
T03 Shri Om Parkash Chowdary 
104 Shri Lal Chand Mehra 
JOS Shri Gurbachan Singh 
106 Shri Shri Ganesh Das Kaira 
107 Shri Ant Ram 
108 Shri Dev Raj Khanna 
109 Shri FIanuman Prashad Pandey 
IIO 

Shri S . L . Mahindroo 
III Shri Rattan Lal Sablok 
112 Shri Satish Chandra 
113 Shri Dev Datta Puric 
114 Shri N . B . Gorwani 
IIS Shri Iqbal Singh Nakai 
116 Shri H , L . Narang 
117 Shri Uma Shanker Shrivastava 
118 Shri B . M . Talgeri 
119 Shri Amar Nath Kapuria 
126 Shri Pakhar Ram Ahir 
121 Shri Sangat Singh 
122 Shri Udho Ram 
123 Shri Daulat Ram 
124 Shri Dalip Singh 

Shri Jaj Ram Nim 
126 Shri Chet Ram Nim 
127 Shri Raunqui Ram 
128 Shri Baldev Raj Bansal 
129 Shri Dalip Singh Suri 

Shri H , B . Singh 
131 Shri Ram Parshad 
132 Suri Ram Gopal Agnibhoj 
133 Shri K , M , Kamble 
134 Shri E . P . Joromy 
135 Shri B . L . Junoja 
136 Shri M . N . Chaturvedi 
137 Shri Manmohan Lal Bhatia 

Shri Ram Prakash Puri 
139 Shri B . M . Lakshmipatiah 
140 Shri S . D , Misra 
I4I Shri R . N . Mathur 
142 Shri H , S . Khurang 
143 Shri Gurbachan Singh Nagra 
144 Shri M . Ziauddin 
145 Shri K . C . Shahare 
146 Shri P . L . Soni 
147 Shri Gokal Ram 
148 Shri Nirmalendu Bhattacharhea 

Shri H . L . Malhotra 
150 Shri K , K . Varma 

Shri S . A . Kaptan 
Is2 Shri Gian Chand Mehra 
153 Shri P , D , Soli 
154 Shri D . S . Jain 
155 Shri Harish Chand 


125 


130 


149 


1792 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1966 


( PART II - SEC . 3 


Serial No. 


Names of the persons appointed 


160 


162 


156 Shri V . N , Khosla 
157 Shri D , S . Sharda 
138 Shri J . C . Ahluwalla 
159 Shri V . K , Mehta 

Shri K , L , Anand 
161 Shri C . J . Motwani 

Shri C . L . Punj 
163 Shri P . H . Jagtiani 
164 Shri M . L . Mehra 
165 Shri K . K . Oberoi 
166 Shri Viluit Rai 
167 Miss S , Dhanda 
168 Shri Jai Parkash Saxena 
169 Shri R . K , Sibbal 
170 Shri K . K . Gupta 
171 Shri Turlok Singh 
172 Shri Madan Lal Mchra 
173 Shri V . D . Bhambani 
174 Shri J , R , Khosla 
175 Shri B . S . Mahara 
176 Shri R . C . Dhingra . 


[ No . 3 /6 / 56 - SII.) 


New Delhi, the 19th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2435 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954 ) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Mun Mohan Lal 
Mathur as Settlement Omcer for the purpose of pertorming the functions assigned 
to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took 
charge of his office . 

This Ministry s notification of even number dated the 24th September , 1956 is 
hereby cancelled , 

[No. 6 / 5 /56 -S .II. ) 


S . R . O . 2436 . — In cxercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Act, 1954 ( 12 of 1954 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri Y . R . Ahuja as Settlement Officer for the pur 
pose of performing the functions assigned to such officer by or under the Sind 
Act with effect from the date he was transferred to the office of the Chief Settle 
ment Commissioner , The Central Government also appoints the said Shri Ahuja 
as Additional Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the 
functions assigned to such commissioner hy or under the said Act 

[No. 8 /5 /56 -S. II( I).) 


S . R . O . 2437 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(No. 44 of 1954 ) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Lachman Das 
Jawa, as Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officer by or under the said Aet with effect from the date he took charge 
of his office . 

[No. 3 / 15 /56 - SII. ] 


S . R . O . 2438. - In exercise of the power s conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Jagannath Prasad an 
Assistant Settlement Oflicer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officer by or under the said Act , with effect from the date he took 
charge of his post . 

[No. 7 / 26 / 56 -SII (Pt. II ). ) 


PART II - Stc. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


1793 


$ .R .O . 2439 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Trilok Nath Bhalla , 
an Assistant Settlement Omcer , for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he 
took charge of his post. 

[ No. 7 / 26 / 56 -SII/ ( Pt. II) . ] 


S . R . O . 2440 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri G . S . Masand , an 
Assistant Settlement Officer , for the purpose of perłorming the functions assigned 
to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took 
charge of his post . 

[No. 7 /26 / 56 - SII ( Pt. II) . ] 


et, with effecting the functio Masand, an 


New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2441. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri R , K , Atal, an Assis 
tant Settlement Officer, for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to 
such officer by or under the said Act, with cffect from the date he took charge 
of his post. 

[No. 7 /26 / 56 - SII (Pt. II) . ] 
MANMOHAN KISHAN , Under Secy. 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONAL AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the 19th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2442. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Delhi 
( Control of Building Operations ) Act , 1955 (No. 53 of 1955 ) , the Delhi Develop 
ment Provisional Authority , New Delhi, hereby directs that the powers cxercisable 
by it under sections 6 and 7 regarding the grant or refusal of permission to erect 
any building , and powers under sections 8 , 10 and 12 of the said Act , may also 
be exercised by the New Delhi Municipal Committee , New Delhi, in respect of 
the colony known as Defence Colony. 

[No. F . 1 ( 147 ) / 56 - Admn .1 
G . MUKHARJI, Member - Secy . 


Delhi sections ,srant Frector 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

(Rallway Board ) 

New Delhi, the 12th October 1956 
S .R . O . 2443 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Indian 
Railways Act , 1890 ( 8 of 1890 ) , read with the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Department of Commerce and Industry No. 801 dated the 24th 
March , 1905 , the Railway Board hereby makes the following further amendments 
in the General Rules for all open lines of Railways in India administered by the 
Government published with the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Railway Department (Railway Board ) No . 1078 - T dated the 9th March , 1929 , 
namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to Part III of the said Rules, in item ( 1) of the 
entries in column 3 , against serial No. 57 , 
( i) after the words wicker basket with vertical rides and conical top " , the 

words " or in a well made strong wooden box or metal case" shall 

be inserted ; 
( 11 ) after the words " through the top of the basket" , the words " or the lid 
of the box " shall be inserted , 

[No. 1506 - TG / II / 56 . ] 


1794 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1908 


[ PART 1 - SEC: 3 


= 


New Delhi, the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2444 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Indian 
Railways Act, 1890 ( 9 of 1890 ) and by the Notification of the Government of India 
in the late Department of Commerce and Industry No. 801, dated the 24th March 
1905 , the Railway Board hereby makes he following further amendment in the 
General Rules for all open lines of Railways in India administered by the Govern 
ment published with the Notification of the Government of India in the late 
Railway Department (Railway Board ) No. 1078 - T , dated 9th March 1929 , 
namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to part III of the said rules , against Serial No . 11 
in column 2 , under the heading " Inflammable liquids Group B - Petroleum and 
other hydrocarbon oils , non -dangerous" , after the entry " Pine Oil", the following 
entry shall be inserted namely : 
" Pentachlorophenol dissolved in selected petroleum oils " . 

[No, 1505- TG /II/ 58.) 


New Delhi, the 20th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2445 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Indian 
Railways Act, 1890 ( 9 of 1890 ) and by the notification of the Government of India 
in the late Department of Commerce and Industry No . 801, dated the 24th March , 
1905 , the Railway Board hereby makes the following amendment in the General 
Rules for all open lincs of railways in India administered by the Government , 
published with the notification of the Government of India in the late Railway 
Department (Railway Board ) No. 1078 - T , dated the 9th March 1929, namely : 
In the Schedule appended to part III of the said Rules, in column 4 , against 

Serial No. 19 , after the words " with Kaslin (China clay and Sodium 
Silicute ) " in item ( iii ) the word " or shall be inserted and after item 

(ill ) as so amended , the following item shall be inserted , namely : - 
" (iv ) with a composition containing sand and sulphur in equal parts by 
weight." 

[No. 1375 -TG .) 
New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2446 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 72 - A of the 
Indian Railways Act , 1890 ( 9 of 1890 ) , and in supersession of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Railways ( Railway Board ) No. 402 - TG 
dated the 13th February , 1956, the Central Government hereby approves the 
form of forwarding note for explosives prescribed by all railway administrations 
as shown in the enclosure . 


Forcoarding Note for Explosives tendered by Defence Services 
(Approved by the Central Government for use on all Railways under section 72 - A of the Indian Railways Act of 1890 ) 
To 
The Station Master . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . Railway . . . . .. . . . . . . Station . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . ,Railway. 
Please receive the under-mentioned consignment and forward by Goods and /or Mixed train * /Coaching and or Mixed train * to . . . . .. . .. 
Station on the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Railway as consigned below : 
By whom consigned To whom consigned 

No. of Description & Sender s Freight 

Station to articles private marks weight paid , to pay 
Name 

Address 

Name Address 

Mds. Srs. 


PaluHSC.3] 


I do bereby certify that I have satisfied myself that the description , marks and weight or quantity of goods consigned by me have been correctly 
entered in this Forwarding Note . 

I certify that the goods entered in the Forwarding Note have been packed in approved service packages . 

Certified that the nominal package, s used for packing of the stores items detailed in the forwarding Note is are suitable for their packing. The 
packing has been done satisfactorily so as to avoid any damage and leakage of the explosive store during transit and that the explosive so packed is fit 
and safe for transport by rail. 

Certified that the explosives tendered in this Forwarding Note are dedared safe for transport . 

I further declare that I accept responsibility for any consequences to the property of the aforesaid Railway Administration , or to the property 
of other persons, entrusted or to be entrusted to the Railway Administration for conveyance , or otherwise , which may be caused by the explosion , or 
otherwise by the said consignment , and that all risk and responsibility whether to the Railway Administration , to their servants or agents or to others , 
retain solely and entirely with me. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,OCTOBER27,1968 


( 1) Alternative railway risk and owners risk rates being available , I elect to pay the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . rate . 
1/ 2 ) To be forwarded via . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( a dearer route * ) at my request. 
# 3 ) The cheapest route being closed * partially closed * , to be charged via , . . . . . . . . . . . . . the next cheapest open route . 

4 ) I declare that these packages antain . . . . . . . . . . . . of a value of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . enumerated in the Second Schedule to the Indian Railways 
Act IX of 1890 . I engage * do not engage * to pay the percentage charge on value for increased risk as required by the Administration Description , 
contents , and value of excepted articles in each package should be specifically mentioned . ) 


* Strike out where inapplicable , 
fStrike out any clause inapplicable before signing this form . 

Signature of sender or his agent . .. . . . 

Dated . . . . . . . . . . . . 195 . Address . . . . . . .. 
NOTE: -- Additions or alterations made in the above entriesmust be signed ( not initialled ) by the sender or his agent. 


1795 


1796 


( The form below to be filled in by the Railway staff ) 

Forwarding Note No. . . . . . . . . . dated . . . . . . . . . 
Particulars of weighment 

Checked by . . 

. date . . . . . . . . . . . . 195 
Weighted by . . . . . . . . . 

dated . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195 

Loaded by . . . 
Weight 

. . date ... . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Invoiced dy . . . . . 

. 195 
Description | Maunds 

Srs. 

Risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
To be carried via . . . . . . . . 
To be charged via .. 


No . of 
articles 


. . . . . . . 195 


. . . . dated " 


Rate per 
maund 


Paid 


To -pay 


Invoice 


Particulars of wagons. 


Class 


Receipt No. 


No . of 

Actual Weight 
Descrip - articles Marks Weight charged 
tion 

Mds Srs ,Mds Srs 


No. & type Owning C . C . 
No. Date 

Raïway 


Floor area 


Rs. As. Rs. As. | Rs. As. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,OCTOBER27,1966 


Explanatory Notes 
(I ) When altemative railway risk and owner s risk rates are quoted, the latter will apply unless the sender, in Clause (1 ) orerleaf, en ers the 
words " Railway risk ” shen be will pay or engage torpay the higher charge and will receive a certificate to this effect. 

(2 ) When a consignment is to be forwarded via other than the shortest route at the sender s request, the route by which the consignment is to be 
forwarded must be recorded in Clause ( 2 ) overleaf, 

(3) When a consignment is to be charged via the next cheapest open route, the cheapest route being closed , or partially closed , the route by which 
the consigoment is to be charged must be recorded in clause (3 ) overleaf. 

(4 ) Railways are not responsible for any loss , destruction or deterioration of or damage to a parcel or package containing any ar icle (s ) 
specified in the Second Schedule to the Indian Rilways Act IX of 1890 whose value exceeds Rs. 300 / - per parcel or package anless the contents 
and value ara declared and engagement entered into to pay the authorised percentage on value charge , if required. The declaration of contents and 
value must be made in clause (4 ) overlzad and the word engage " or words " do not engige " struck out according to whether the consign 
ment is to be booked by the Railway with bailee s responsibility or otherwise . The Administration hereby give notice that payment of percentage of 
value charge is required . 
Note : - All clauses and wordswhich are in applicable are to be struck out before the Forwarding Note is signed , 

[No. 402 - TG .) 
D . C . BAIJAL , Secy . 


[PARTII-SEC.8 


PART IILSEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 

1797 
- - 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2447. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause ( 5 ) of Article 148 of the Constitution , the President, after consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India hereby makes the following 
rules , namely : 

1, Short title and commencement. - ( i) These rules may be called the Central 
Civil Services ( Audit and Accounts Department Transferred Employees ) Rules , 
1956 . 

( ii ) These rules shall be deemed to have come into force , in respect of each 
transferred employee, on the date on which such employee was actually taken 
over , 
2 . Definitions : — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires : 

( a ) Government means the Government of India ; 
( b ) relevant date means the date on which a transferred employee was 

actually taken over by the Government ; 
( c ) State with its grammatical variations means a Part C State or a State 

merged with a Part A State ; 
( d ) “ State rules in relation to an employee mean the rules and orders 

relating to the conditions of service of that employee in force on 
the day immediately preceding the day on which he was actually 

taken over ; and 
( e ) transferred employee with its grammatical variations means a person 

who was employed under the Government of a Part C State or of a 
State merged with a Part A State and who has been taken over by 
the Central Government in the Indian Audit and Accounts Depart 
ment, in consequence of constitutional changes and the extension of 

the executive authority of the Central Government to that State. 
3 . Persons to whom rules apply . These rules shall apply to transferred 
employees in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department other than those 
specifled below : 

( a ) employees engaged on contract; 
(b ) employees not in whole- time employment ; and 

( c ) cmployees paid out of contingencies. 
4 . Absorption in an appropriate grade under the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department. - A transferred employee shall be Atted into the appropriate grade 
in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department with effect from the relevant date 
in accordance with the orders issued by the Government in that behalf and any 
such employee who is not so absorbed shall continue to be governed by the State 
rules : 

Provided that any modifications in the State Rules after the relevant date 
shall be subject to the specific orders of the Government . 

5 . Election between State Rules and Central Rules . - ( 1 ) A transferred 
employee who held a permanent post in a substantive capacity immediately 
before the relevant date shall on absorption in the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department elect on or before a date to be specified in this behalf by the Gov . 
ernment whether he shall be governed by the State rules or the Central rules ; 
( i ) provided that the election shall be in favour of the State rules or the 

Central rules as a whole and not merely any part or parts thereof ; 
(ii ) made in writing in such form as may be prescribed by Government: 
Provided further that the right to elect shall not extend to administrative 

matters such as applicability of Government Servants Conduct 
Rules, Civil Services (Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules , 

hours of work , holidays and transfer . 
( 2 ) Subject to such special orders as the Government may issue in this behalf , 
an election once made shall , except to the extent specified in rule 7, be final, 

( 3 ) The instructions contained in the Comptroller and Auditor General s 
letter No. 135- States / 159 - A /52, dated 30th August 1952 , shall apply to every 
election under this rule . 


ovidematters 
civiorks 


1798 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1966 


[ PART II - -SEC. 8 


und eight the Central Tu Tules , that 


( 4 ) A transferred employee who fails to exercise the right of election on or 
before the date specified by the Government under sub - rule. ( 1 ) or who, in the 
opinion of the Government, has exercised the right in an ambiguous manner 
shall be treated as having elected to be governed by the Central rules. 

(5 ) A transferred employee who before the publication of these rules , has 
retired from service shall also be eligible to exercise the opinion , provided that 
he was in service on the relevant date . 

6 . Initial pay . - A transferred employee who elects the Central rules shall have 
his initial pay fixed in the appropriate grades or post on the Central scales of 
pay in accordance with the orders issued by the Government in that behall. 
Explunation . – Central scales of pay mean the Prescribed scales specified 

in the Central Civil Services (Revision of pay ) Rules, 1947 . 
7. Duration of applicability of State rules. - A transferred employee who elects 
to be governed by the State rules in accordance with rule 5 shall continue to be 
governed by those rules ; 

Provided that, subject to the next succeeding proviso, and subject also to the 
provisions of the Government of India , Ministry of Finance , letters of even No. F . 
16 ( 92 ) A ( A ) / 53 , dated the 4th March 1954 and the 28th May 1954 , where appii 
cable , such an employee on promotion to a higher post shall be brought on to 
the Central rules finally and his pay in the higher post shall be fixed under the 
Fundamental Rules , his substantive pay drawn under the State rules on the date 
ot promotion being taken as the substantive pay for such purpose ; 

Provided further that such an employee may, if he so desires, on promotion 
elect to be governed by the State rules as applicable to the post held by him on 
the relevant date and an election so made shall be treated as Anal for so long 
as he continues to hold the post to which he has been promoted or an equivalent 
post. 

8 . Leave and Pension . - ( 1 ) A transferred employee who elects to be governed 
by the Central rules shall be subject to tho Revised Leave Rules , 1933 as amended 
from time to time. The leave to be carried forward on the relevant date and the 
manner in which leave taken during the pre - absorption period shall count for 
pension , shall be determined in accordance with the orders issued in the Ministry 
of Finance O . M . No. F . 14 ( 4 ) Est. III / 53- 1 , dated the 13th July , 1953, and No. 
F . 7 ( 124 ) EV / 53 , dated the 27th March 1954, respectively , as amended from time 
to time. 

( 2 ) A transferred employee who elects to be governed by the Central rules 
and who retires before the 17th April 1950, shall be subject to the Pension Rules 
in the Civil Service Regulations as on the 16th April 1950 , as for post 1938 
entrants . Such an employee retiring on or after the 17th April 1950, shall be 
subject to the Revised Pension Rules published in the Ministry of Finance 
O . M . No. F . 3 ( 1 ) Est . (Spl. ) / 47, dated the 17th April 1950 , as applicable to post 
1938 entrants , as amended from time to time. All the permanent or temporary 
service rendered by the transferred employce under the State Government prior 
to absorption shall be treated as permanent or temporary service rendered under 
the Government: 

Provided that a transferred employee who was subscribing to a Contributory 
Provident Fund shall be brought on to pensionable service under Government 
and thereafter, he shall not be allowed to subscribe to the Contributory Provi 
dent Fund . The extent to which the past service of such a transferred employee 
shall count towards pension shall be determined with reference to the orders 
contained in the Ministry of Finance O . M . No. F . 7 (47) EV / 54 , dated the 17th July 
1954 , as amended from time to time. 
Explanation . - For the purposes of this sub - rule , the expression “All the 

permanent or temporary service rendered by the transferred em 
ployee under the State Government prior to absorption shall mean 
the total length of service, whether permanent or temporary , ren 
dered by a transferred employee in any Acceding State , a Part C 

State or a Part A State , prior to the date of such absorption , 
( 3 ) A transferred employee who elects to be governed by the Central rules 
and who retires before the 17th April, 1950, shall be eligible for the benefits of 
commutation of pension under the Civil Pensions ( Commutation ) Rules . Such 
an employee retiring on or after the 17th April 1950, shall be eligible to the 
benefits of commutation of pension under the Civil Pension (Commutation ) Rules 


PART TIF SEC. 9 ] 


THE GAZDITE OF INHA, WATUBAR 27, 1900 


1999 


read with the revised Pension Rules promulgated in the Ministry of Finance 
O . M . No. F . 3 ( 1) Est.( Spl ) /47, dated the 17th April 1950 , as amended from time 
to time 

( 4 ) For the purposes of determining the age of retirement for ministerial 
Government servants , the provisions of Fundamental Rule 56 ( b ) ( ii) shall apply . 

[No. F . 12 ( 11) - Est.III / 56 -1 ] 
K . S GANAPATI, Dy. Secy . 


( Department of Economic Affairs ) 
(Office of the Controller of Capital Issues ) 

New Delhi, the 19th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2448 . — For Rule 4 of the Capital Issues ( Application for Consent) Rules, 
1954 published in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , dated the 13th March , 
1954 as S . R .O ., 828 dated the 9th March , 1954 the following shall be substituted , 
namely : 

Every application under these rules shall be accompanied by a Treasury 

receipt for Rs. 50 which shall, at Bombay , Calcutta , Delhi, Madras 
and Bangalore , be deposited in the Reserve Bank of India and at 
other places in the ncarest Government Treasury or in the nearest 
Branch of an agency of the Reserve Bank . The amount shall be 
credited to the head " XLVI - Miscellaneous Miscellaneous" . 

[No. F .2 ( 18 ) -CCI/ 56 — 7541.] 
M . R . BHIDE , Controller of Capital Issues . 


( Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 19th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2449. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act , 1949 ( 10 of 1949 , the Central Government, on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions of section 
11 of the said Act shall not be applicable to banking companies till the expiry 
of the 31st day of October 1957, in so far as the said section would , by reason 
only of the territorial changes and formation of new Statcs under the provisions 
of the Statęs Rcorganisation Act, 1956 ( 37 of 1956 ), require such banking com 
panies to have paid -up capital and rescrves of an aggregate value which is higher 
than the aggregate value of paid - up capital and reserves which they are required 
to have under the said section on the 31st day of October 1956 . 

[No. 4 ( 145 ) - F . I / 56 . ] 


New Delhi, the 22nd October , 1956 
S . R . O . 2450 . - In pursuance of section 51 of the Banking Companies Act , 1949 
( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government hereby notifes the State Bank of Hydera 
bad for the purpose of the said section . 

[NO. F . 7 (50) - FI / RO / 56 . ] 


CORRIGENDUM 
S . R . O . 2451. - In the Hyderabad State Bank ( Compensation ) Rules 1950 
published with S . R . O . No. 2274 in Part II Section 3 of the Gazette of India Extra 
ordinary dated the 4th October , 1956 , the following corrections are to be made : - 
( 1 ) On page 2027 , for the scmi- colon (;) at the end of rule 2 ( d ) substitute 

a full stop (.) , 
( 2 ) On page 2028 , in rule 5 , line 2 , for Excutor read Executor . 
( 3 ) On page 2029, in paragraph 2 , line 3 , of form A of the Schedule , for 

the words I / we read I / We and close the brackets after the words. 
Signature ( s ) of the shareholder ( s ) . 


1800 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 


[ PART II- SEC . 3 


( 4 ) On page 2030 , in Item 7 for the word applicant read application . 
(5 ) On page 2031 in paragraph 1 of form C of the Schedule, insert an 

asterisk ( * ) against I /We . In the foot -note to this form for the 
two plus signs ( t ) substitute two asterisks ( * * ) . 

[No. F . 7 (41) -FI/ RO / 56 .] 
K , P . BISWAS, Under Secy . 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 20th October , 1956 
S . R . O . 2452. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Item No . 17 of the 
Schedule to the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax ) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941 ) . 
As extended to the State of Delhi, the Central Government hereby specifies cloth 
of the following description for the purposes of the said item : 
" Handloom cloth costing less than one rupee per yard " . 

[No. 6 ( 13 ) - P (ST ) / 56. ] 


S . R . O . 2453 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
6 of the Bengal Finance ( Sales Tax ) Act 1941 ( Bengal Act VI of 1941) , as extend 
ed to the State of Delhi, the Central Government hereby gives three months 
notice of its intention to make the following amendments in the Schedule to 
the said Act, namely : --- 


In the said Schedule 
1 . For item 9, the following item shall be substituted namely : - 
" 9 Gur , molasses and sugar excluding mill made sugar " . 
2 . For item 15 , the following shall be substituted namely : 
" 15 Edible oils pressed on Ghanis ." 
3 . For item 23 , the following item shall be substituted namely :--- 
" 23 White printing paper, cream - laid paper and newsprint." 
4 . Item 40 shall be omitted . 
5 . After item 44 , the following items shall be inserted namely : 
" 45. (i) Crudely tanned leather. 

When manufactured ( i) without the 

ise of power, and (ii) at a place 
( ii) Country made shoes ( Jutics) . 

other than a factory as defined 

under the Factories Act and sold 
( iii ) Hand made utensils . 

cither by maker himself or any 
( iv ) Cane and bamboo handicrafts. 

member of his family or by a co 

operative Society ofmakers of such 
( v ) Earthenwares made by Kumhars. j articles , 
46 . Achar and murrabba except when sold in sealed containers. 
47. Charkha, takli and charkha accessories. 
48. Black ink , slate, slate pencils and tahkties . 
49 . Betel leaves." 

[No. 6 ( 13 ) - P (ST ) / 56 . ] 
K . PALCHAUDHURI, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 


New Delhi the 27th October 1958 
S .R . O . 2454 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 2 ) of section 
26 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 ( II of 1934 ) , and on the recommendation 
of the Central Board of the Reserve Bank of India , the Central Government hereby 


PART II + SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1936 


1801 


makes the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Finance No, F . 4 (56 ) - F III / 85 , dated the 28th April, 1956 , namely : 
In the said notification for the words " six months" , the words " twelve 
months" ghall be substituted . 

[No. F . 4 (56 )- F , III / 55 .] 
PREM NARAIN , Under Secy . 


(Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd October, 1956 
S .R . O . 2455.-- - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules , namely : 

1 . Short title and commencement. - ( 1) These rules may be called the Central 
civil services ( transferred Employees ) Rules, 1956 . 

( ii ) These rules shall be deemed to have come into force in respect of each 
transferred employee , on the date on which such employee was actually taken 
Over . 
2. Definitions. In those rules , unless the context otherwise requires; 

( a ) Government means the Government of India ; 
(b ) relevant date means the date on which a trnsferred employee was 

actually taken over by the Government; 
( c ) Statc with its grammatical variations means a Part C Ştate or a State 

merged with a Part A State ; 
( d ) State Rules in relation to an employee mean the rules and orders 

relating to the conditions of service of that employee in force on 
the day immediately preceding the date on which he was actually 

taken over ; and 
( e ) transferred employee means a person who was employed under the 

Government of a Part C Stalc or of a State merged with a Part A 
State and who has been taken over by the Central Government in 
Departments other than the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
in consequence of constitutional changes and the extension of the 

executive authority of the Central Government to that State . 
3 . Persons to whom rules apply . These rules shall apply to transferred 
employees other than those specified in rule 7. 

4 . Absorption in an appropriate grade under Government. - A transferred 
employec shall be fitted into the appropriate grade under the Government with 
effect from the relevant date in accordance with the orders issued by the Govern 
ment in that behalf and any such employee who is not so absorbed shall continue 
to be governed by the State rules : 

Provided that any modifications in the State Rules after the relevant date 
shall be subject to the specific orders of the Government. 

5 . Initial pay. - A transferred employee shall have his initial pay fixed in the 
appropriate grade or post on the Central scales of pay in accordance with the 
orders issued by the Government in that behalf. 
Explanation .. . Central scales of pay mean the Prescribed scales specified 

in the Central Civil Services ( Revision of Pay ) Rules, 1947, 
6 . Leave and Pension . - ( 1 ) A transferred employee shall be subject to the 
Reviycd Leave Rules, 1933 , as amended from time to time. The loave to be 
carrud forward on the relevant date and the manner in which leave taken during 
tlı orc - absorption period shall count for pension , shall be determined in accord 
ance with the orders issued in the Ministry of Finance Office Memorandum 
No . F . 14 ( 4 ) - Est. III /53 - 1 , dated the 13th July , 1953 , and No. F . 7 ( 124 ) - E . V /53, 
dated the 27th March , 1954 , respectively , as amended from time to time. 

( 2 ) A transferred employer who retires before the 17th April, 1950 , shall be 
subject to the Pension Rules in the Civil Service Regulations as on the 16th April, 
1950 , as for post - 1938 entrants . Such an ( mployec retiring on or after the 17th 
April, 1950 , shall be subject to the Revised Pension Rules published in the 
Ministry of Financo Otce memorundum No. F . 3 ( 1 ) - Est ( Spl) / 47 , dated the 
17th April, 1950 , as applicable to post - 1938 entrants , as amended from time to 


1802 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


[ PART II- SEC . 3 


- - 


= 


= 


time. All the permanent or temporary service rendered by the transferred 
employee under the State Government prior to absorption shall be treated as 
permanent or temporary seryice rendered under the Government: 


Provided that a transferred employee who was subscribing to a Contributory 
Provident Fund shall be brought on to pensionable service under Government 
and thereafter , he shall not be allowed to subscribe to the Contributory Provident 
Fund. The extent to which the past service of such a transferred employee shall 
count towards pension shall be determined with reference to vhe orders contained 
in the Ministry of Finance Office Memorandum No , F . 7 (47 ) - E . V / 54, dated the 17th 
July , 1954 , as amended from time to time, 


Explanation . For the purposes of this sub - rule , the expression All the 

permanent or temporary service rendered by the transferred em 
ployee under the State Government prior to absorption shall mean 
the total length of service, whether permanent or temporary , 
rendered by a transferred employee in any Acceding State , a Part 
C State or a Part A State , prior to the date of such absorption . 


( 3 ) A transferred employee who retires before the 17th April, 1950, shall be 
eligible for the benefits of commutation of pension under the Civil Pensions 
( Commutation ) Rules . Such an employee retiring on or after the 17th April 
1950 , shall be eligible to the benefits of commutation of pension under the Civil 
Pension ( Commutation ) Rules read with the revised Pension Rules promulgated 
in the Ministry of Finance Office Memorandum No, F3 ( 1 ) -Est. ( Spl ) / 47, dated the 
17th April, 1950, as amended from time to time. 


( 4 ) For the purpose of determining the age of retirement for ministerial Gov 
ernment servants, the provisions of Fundamental Rule 56 (b ) ( ii) shall apply . 


7. Saving. — These rules shall not apply to 

( a ) employees in Railways ; 
(b ) employees paid from the Defence Services Estimates; 
( c ) employees engaged on contract ; 
(d ) employees not in whole - time employment; 
( e ) employees paid out of contingencies ; and 
( 1) employees absorbed in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department. 

[No. F .12 ( 11 ) - Est.III /56 - II .) 
K . S . GANAPATI, Dy . Secy . 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 

Central Office 

Bombay , the 10th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2456. - In pursuance of the notification of the Government of India in 
the Finance Department No. 12 ( 13 ) - FI/ 47 dated the 25th March , 1947, the Reserve 
Bank hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made in the 
schedule to the notification of the Reserve Bank of India No. F . E . R . A . 10 /47 - R . B . 
dated the 25th March , 1947, namely : - 
In the said Schedule 

(a ) the entry "Hyderabad State Bank ” shall be omitted . 
(b ) after the entry " Punjab National Bank Ltd ." the entry " State Bank of 

Hyderabad " shall be inserted . 


[No. F . E . R . A . 144 / 56 - R . B . ] 


K . G . AMBEGAOKAR , Dy. Governor. 


PART 


3 


TIME GAZT OF INDIAK OTODAN 


1803 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (Department of Revenue) 

DANGEROUS DRUGS 

New Delhi, the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 24554 . In cxercise of the powers conferred by sub -sections ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) 
of section 5 of the Dangerous Drugs Act . 1930 ( 2 of 1930 ), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendnients in the Central Opium Rules , 
1934 , the same having been previously published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 36 of the said Act, namely : -- 

In the said rules : 

1. In clause ( a ) of rulc 2 und in rule 3 the words " Himachal Pradesh and 
Bilaspur" occurring after the word " Rajasthan " shall be omitted and after the 
words “ Madhya Bharat" , the word " and " shall be inserted ; 
2 . for rule 5 the following rule shall be substituted , namely : 
" 5 . Opium shall not be manufactured anywhere in any State to which 

these rules apply save in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Bharat : 
Provided that with the special permission of the Central Government, 
oplum purchased from the Government Factories at Ghazipur and 
Necmuch may be re-manuľactured by or on behalf of a State Gov . 

ernment in the form of tablets or pills for sale as excise opium ; 
Provided further that oplum mixtures may be manufactured from raw 

opium lawfully possessed by persons authorized by the State Gov 

ernment under their rules made for the purpose ; 
Provided further that confiscated and damaged opium may be re -modelled 

by or on behalf of a State Government with a view to making it fit 
for excise purposes, subject to the condition that the remodelled 

opiuin shall be in & form enabling it to be distinguished from the 
excise opium issued from the Government Factories at Ghazipur 

and Neemuch " . 
3 . In rule 6 
a ) In Item (i), after the words " at Ghazipur " , the word " and " shall be 

inserted ; 
( b ) Items ( ill ) and (iv ) shall be omitted ; 

4 . In rules 7 and 8 , the words " and Kotah " occurring after the word " Neemuch " 
shall be omitted , and alter the word " Ghazipur" , the word " and " shall be inserted . 

[No. 3 .) 


FRO.8 -10 ans New Delhi 

,the one geother 


CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 27th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2458 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act , 1944 ( 1 of 1944 ), as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
. amendment in the Central Excise Rules, 1944 , namely : – 
In rule 210 of the said Rules , after the words, 
" Where no other penalty is provided herein " , the words " or in the Act" shall 
be inserted . 

[No. 16 - CER / 50 . ) 
B . D . DESHMUKH , Dy . Secy . 


New Delhi, the 20th October , 1958 
S . R . O . 2489 , -- In pursuance of Clause ( b ) of sub rule ( 11 ) of rule 2 of the 
. Appellate Tribunal Rules , 1946 , the Central Government has been pleased to 
iappoint Shri K . B . Bhatnagar , Income - tax Officer , as Authorized Representative 

from the 27th September 1956 afternoon to appear , plead and act for any 
Income- tax authority , who is a party to any proceedings before the Income- tax 
- Appellate Tribunal. 

[No. 122 .] 
P . N . DAS GUPTA , Dy . Secy, 


1804 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 21 , 1958 


[PART II - SEC . & 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

LAND CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 20th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2460. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Land 
Customs Act, 1924 ( 19 of 1924 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes 
the following further amendment in its notification , No . 22 - Customs, dated the 
2nd February , 1952 , namely : 

In the schedule to the said notification , under the heading “ C - Land Customs: 
areas under the jurisdiction of the Collector of Land Customs, Calcutta " and 
the sub -heading 24 - Parganas District , after the entry "Ghojadanga " , the : 
following entry shall be inserted , namely : 


Budge Budge 


( a ) Budge Budge — Sealdah -Darsadra . 

Railway line passing through . 

Banpur Railway Station . 
(b ) Budge Budge - Sealdah - Khulna 

Railway line passing through . 

Bongaon Railway Station . 
(c ) The inland waterway from Budge 

Budge to East Pakistan via 
Beharikhal" . 


[No. 91.) 


S . R . O . 2461. In exercise of the powers conterred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section : 
3 of the Land Customs Act, 1924 ( 19 of 1924 ), read with the notifcation of the 
Government of India in the late Finance Department (Central Revenues ) , 
No. 5941, dated the 13th December 1924 , the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
makes the following amendment in its notification No. 134 - Customs, dated the 27th 
August, 1955 , namely : 
" In the Schedule to the said notification , for the words " in the border dis 

tricts of Jodhpur and Bikaner , Rajasthan Stato " , the words " in tho 
districts of Barmor , Bikaner , Ganganagar , Jaisalmer and Jalore in 
the State of Rajasthan " shall be substituted " . 

[ No. 92 ] 


LAND CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 27th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2462. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Land ! 
Customs Act, 1924 ( 19 of 1924 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the 
following further amendments in its notification No. 22 -Customs, dated the 2nd 
February , 1952, namely : - - 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification under the heading " C -Land 
Customs areas under the jurisdiction of the Collertor of Land Customs, Calcutta " 
the following items and all entries relating thereto shall he omitted , namely : 
(1) under the sub -heading " MURSHIDABAD DISTRICT" , the items 

" Dhulianganges" and " Katlumari" ; 
( ii) under the sub -heading " KRISIINANAGAR DISTRICT" , the item . 

" Sikarpur" and " Betai" ; 


( ili) under the sub -heading " 24 PARGANAS DISTRICT" the item " Itinda " : 

[No. 94 . ] 


PART II — SEC. 31 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 37, 1958 

1805 
- = = - = = - - 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 20th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2463. - In the Notification of the Central Board of Revenue, No. CER 
175 ( I) / 56 ( S . R . O . 1986 ), dated the 1st September 1956, published in the Gazette 
of India , Part II , Section 3 , dated the 8th September , 195 , for heading in 
column 3 of the Schedule , namely , " Reviewing Authority " , read “ Renewing 
Authority " . 

S . K . BHATTACHARJEE , Secy . 


- 


- - - 


- - 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 16th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2464. — The following draft of a further amendment in the Coal Mines 
Pit head Bath Rules , 1946 , which the Central Government purposes to make in 
exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( e ) of section 58 of the Mines Act, 1982 
( 35 of 1952 ), is published, as required by sub -Section ( 1) of section 59 of the gald 
Act, for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is 
hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
31st January , 1957. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendment 
In sub -rule ( 1) of rule 3 , for the word " thereat" , the following words shall be 
substituted , namely : 
" on a suitable site selected by him with the previoug approval of the com 
petent authority ." 

[ C .M .P . B . / Am (2 ). ] 
[ File No. M . 41 (38 ) / 55 .] 


New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 
S . R . O . 2465 . — In exercise of the powers confețred by clause ( e ) of section 58 
of the Mines Act , 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the Coal Mines pithead Bath Rules, 1946 , the 
same having been previously published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 59 
of the said Act, namely : 
In rule 3 of the said Rules : 
(i) in sub -rule ( 1 ), for the words " Owner of every coal mines shall," the 

following words shall be substituted , namely - 
owner agent or manager of every coal mine shall , within such period as 

may be specified by the competent authority " , 
(il) in clause (ill) of sub - rule ( 1 ), after the word Owner , the comma and 

words" , agent or manager " shall be inserted , 
(ili ) sub -rule (2 ) shall be omitted and the existing sub -rule ( 3 ) shall be re 

1 numbered as sub -rule ( 2 ) . 
2 . In sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 7 and sub - rule ( 2 ) of rules 8 and 10 , after the word 
*owner , the comma and words" , agent or manager" shall be inserted , 

3 . In sub -rule ( 1) and (2 ) of rule 9, the words " of the prescribed type " shall be 
Omitted . 

C .M .P . B ./Ad (1 ) . 
[ File No. M - 41 ( 15 ) 54 . ] 
P . D . COMMAR , Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 16th October 1956 
$ . R . O . 2466 . - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of sub -paragraph ( 1 ) of paragraph 
4 of the Employees Provident Funds Scheme 1952, the Central Government 
hereby nominates Shri A . D . Pande , I. A . S ., Secretary to the Government of 


1806 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 


[ PART II — Sec . & 


Uttar Pradesh , Labour Department, Lucknow , to be the Chairman of the Re 
gional Committee , Employees Provident Fund, vice Shri Radha Kant, I. A . S . , 
who has resigned his Chairmanship and directs that the following amendment 
shall be made in the notification of Government of India , in the Ministry of 
Labour, No . S . R . O . 1367 dated the 15th April 1954 , namely : 

In the said notification , for item No. 1, the following item shall be substituted , 
namely : 
" 1. Shri A . D Pande, I. A . S ., Secretary to the Government of Uttar 
Pradesh , Labour Department, Lucknow ." 

[ No. P .F . 45 ( 12 ) /56.] 


New Delhi, the 20th October , 1956 
S . R . O . 2467 / PWA / 14 / N . 1 / Am , -4 / 56. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 3 ) of section 14 read with section 24 of the Payment of Wages Act, 
1938 ( 4 of 1936 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendments in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, No. S . R . O . 232, dated the 12th January 1954 , namely : 
In the said notification 
Existing entries 14 to 33 shall be respectively renumbered as 15 to 34 , and 

after 13 , the following shall be inserted , namely : 
" 14. The Conciliation Officer (Central), Jharsugada ." 

[No. Fac . 103 ( 26 ) / 56 .) 


New Delhi, the 23rd October 1958 

ERRATA 
S . R . O . 2468 . — The following errata to the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour No. S . R . O , 2315 , dated the 8th October 1956 , publish 
ed at pages 2039 — 2062 of part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary 
dated the 9th October 1958 , is published for general Information : 
( 1) Clause 4 (2 ) - - 

In the third line, for " be" read “ by" . 
(2 ) Clause II (e ) (iii) 

In the first line in the word " Attendance " for capital A Substitute small a . 
( 3 ) Clause 12 , 

In the first line, for " consist" read " consists" , 
( 4 ) Clause 24 

In the sixth line, for " obdy" read " Body" . 
(5 ) Clause 31 (2 ) 

In the fourth line, for “ preceeding years" read “ preceding year" . 
( 6 ) Clause 45 ( 1 ) (ii) (b ) 
In the third line, after the word " removed " , add " from the employers * 

register " . 
(7) Clause 45 ( 2 ) (b ) 

For " writings” read " writing" , 
( 8 ) Clause 53 (2 ) 

For " of" occurring after " gratuity " read “ to ” . 
(9 ) Schedule 11 – 

( 1) In the third line , for " preceeding " read " preceding " . 
( ii) In item ( a ), for "men - shifts ” read "man - shifts" . 
(lii) In Column 3 of the entries below item (b ) delete the brackets . 


[NO. DC - 140 .] 


R . C . SAKSENA , Under Secy . 


Part II + Sec . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1958 1807 

- - - - . - : 
New Delhi, the 23rd October 1958 
S . R . O . 2469 . - In pursuance of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 86 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby authorises 
all the Regicnál Directors of the Employees State Insurance Corporation to institute 
prosecutions or accord previous sanction to prosecutions under the said Act. 

[F . NO , HI- 1( 11) /56.) 
B , R , KHANNA , Under Sery . 


New Delhi, the 22nd October, 1956 
S . R . O . 2470 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1047) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Hindustan Mercantile Bank Limited , Calcutta and thcir workmen . 


INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE NO . 1 OF 1956 
In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Hindusthan Mercantile 
Bank Ltd ., Calcutta and their workmen . 

PRESENT 
Shri R . K . Basu – Sole Member, 

Appearances 
For the Company: - Shri S . N . Chowdhary . 
For the Workmen : - Shri Probhat Kar with Shri H , L . Parwana . 

Dated the 27th September, 1956 

AWARD 
Under a Notification No. LR - 100 ( 20 ) / 55 dated 16th June, 1956 , the Govern 
ment of India (Ministry of Labour ) constituted an Industrial Tribunal in exercise 
of the powers conferred by section 7 read with section 10 of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act (XIV of 1947 ) consisting of myself ( R . K . Basu ) as sole member 
thereof for adjudication of an industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Ltd ., Calcutta and their workmen . The 
dispute was in relation to the retrenchment of a workman of the Bank named 
Shri H . N . Bhowmik on and from 12th January , 1955. In the dispute the work 
man concerned has been represented by the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank 
Employees Union . The Union s contention is that Shri H , N . Bhowmik was wrong 
fully retrenched and that he was entitled to reinstatement with all arrears of 
pay. The Bank has resisted the claim contending inter alia that Shri Bhowmik 
is not a workman and that the Union cannot take up his case . In course of 
conciliation procecdings an agreement was arrived at between the Bank and the 
Union to thc following effect : 


" Parties to the above industrial dispute have agreed to apply in the pres 

cribed manner jointly for a reference to the dispute to the appropriate 
Government for referring the dispute to the Tribunal under section 
10 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act. The reference to the Tribunal 
will be whether Shri H . N . Bhowmik is a workman and Union can 
take up his case ." 


In connection with the reference parties were notified to submit their respective 
written statements . In the written statement Aled by the Union , it has been 
prayed that Shri H . N . Bhowmik be declared a workman and that the Hindusthan 
Mercantile Bank Employees Union is quite competent to represent him and second 
ly that Shri H . N . Bhowmik bę reinstated in his original post with continuity 
of service including all privileges regarding Leave, Bonus, Increments , Provident 
Fund , Gratuity etc . and with all arrears of salary and allowances from the date 
of discharge to the date of reinstatement. The Bank in its rejoinder repelled the 
Union s contention and prayed that the Union s demand be dismissed , 


The case is fixed for hearing to day the 27th September 1956 . Both parties 
have appeared , Shri S . N . Roy Chowdhary for the Company and Shri Pravat 
Kar with H . L . Parvana for the Union . Both parties pray that the case be dis 


1808 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1988 


[PART II - Sec . 3 


- 


posed of and an award be made in accordance with the terms of settlement agreed 
between the parties . The memorandum of settlement dated 26th September 1956 
signed by the representatives of the parties has been filled . The Bank has accepted 
it that Shri H . N . Bhowmik is a workman within the definition of the terms of the 
Industrial Disputes Act . The Bank has further recognised the competency of 
the Union to represent the workman , Shri H . N . Bhowmik and the Bank has 
agreed according to the memorandum of settlement to reinstate Shri H . N . 
Bhowmik in service without any change of status and with continuity of service, 
The Bank has also agreed to pay to Shri Bhowmik compensation for the period 
of unemployment and to accord other benefits as detailed in the memorandum 
of settlement. 

Both parties have prayed that the terms of settlement as recorded to the 
memorandum of settlement be accepted and an award be made on these terms 
making the memorandum of settlement a part of the award . 

I feel convinced that the parties have arrived at settlement as a result of 
mutual discussion and agreement. There is nothing objectionable in the terms 
of settlement . 


In the result, I decide the reference and make an award in terms of memoran 
dum of settlement, which is to form a part of the award . 


Parties are left to bear their own cost. 


R . K . BAgy . Sole Member , 

Industrial Tribunal. 


MEMORANDUM OF SETTLEMENT 


H.Roro Hindusthan Mere 


PRESENT 
For the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Limited, Head Office , Calcutta . Shri 
H . L . Goswamy . 

For the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Employees Union Calcutta . Shri Prabhat 
Kar . 


1 . As a result of the termination of the services of Shri H . N . Bhowmik an 
industrial dispute existed between the management of the Hindusthan Mercantile 
Bank Limited , Calcutta and the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Employee s union , 
Calcutta . The Government of India referred this dispute to Shri R . N . Basu , 
Industrial Tribunal ( Central) , Calcutta for adjudication . The said dispute is at 
present pending before the Honourable Tribunal for adjudication as reference No. 
1 of 1956 . 


2 . After discussions both the parties to the dispute have arrived at the follow 
ing settlement and agree that this memorandum of settlement be Aled before 
the Tribunal with a request to award the same accordingly , 


3. The Bank agrees that: 
( a ) Shri H . N , Bhowmik will be reinstated in its services without any 

change in his status and with continuity of services ; treating him 
as a workman within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


( b ) Shri H . N . Bhowmik will be paid the compensation for the unemploy . 

ment period i. e . Rs. 185 p . m . for 3 months and 5 days being Rs. 586 - 13 - 3 
( Rupees Five Hundred cighty five annas thirteen and pies three only ) . 


( c ) From the date of his reinstatement Shri H . N . Bhowmik will be entitled 

to the benefits of the pay scales and allowance as laid down in the 
award at present in force . The scheme of adjustment of salary will 
apply to him as if he was all along in the service of the Bank . 


PART II- SEC , 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27, 1956 

1809 

- - - - = - = - = 
( d ) Shri H . N . Bhowmik will be paid Rs. 80 being the Puja Ex - gratia 

payment for the year 1955 and will be entitled to receive the Ex 

gratia payment for the year 1956 , 
( e ) Shri H . N . Bhowmik is to report for duty by the 16th of October 1956 . 

(Sd.) PRABHAT KAR, 

Representative 
Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Employee Union . 

Calcutta , 
( Sd ) H , L. GoswAMY, 
Chief Accountant, 

Representative 
Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Ltd ., 

Calcutta . 
Calcutta , 26th September , 1956. 

[No. LR .100 ( 20 ) /58 .] 
F . M . NATHANIEL , Under Secy . 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

ORDER 

New Delhi- 2 , the 17th October 1956 
S . R . O . 2471. — The Central Government hereby : -- 
(a ) directs, in pursuance of the provisions of the order of the Government 

of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No . S . R . O . 
3805 , dated the 26th December , 1955 and in modification of Order of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broad 
casting No. S . R . O . 1008 dated the 23rd April, 1956 , that the Advisory 
Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Madras shall consist 

of 33 members with cffect from 17th October , 1956 . 
( b ) appoints, after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors the 

following persons as members of the Advisory Panel of the said Board 
at Madras with effect from the 17th October , 1956 in exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 read with sub - rule ( 1 ) of 

rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1951. 
1 . Shri K , P . Adiga , 
2 . Dr. U . Sripathi Rau . 
3. Shri Gopi Nath Aman. 

[No. 14 / 4 /56-FC ).] 
B . S . DASARATHY, Dy . Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1956 


