ftEQISTEBED No. D. 

fdfk ^<<X 

She Musette v^ijffrir 

^ !i 

*■' '■'..£ (NOW. 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY' 



No. 19] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, MAY 12, 1956 

NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 4th 
May 1956 : — 


Issue 

No. 

| No, and date 

Issued by 

Subject 

129 

S.R.O. 1013 , dated the 
30th April 1956. 

Ministry of Finance 

(Revenue Division) 

Amendments made in the Noti- 
fication No. 13— Customs, 
dated the 28th February 1953. 

130 

S.R.O. 1014, dated the 
1st Miy 1956 

Ministry of Commerce 
and Industry. 

Fixation of the price of tea for 
the purpose of Item 5 in the 
Second Schedule to the Indian 
Tariff Act, 1934. 

m - 

: S.R.O. 101S, dated the 
18th April 1956- 

Election 

India. 

Commission, | 

Election Petition No. 30 of 1954. 

132 

S.R.O. 1016, dited the 
istMty 1956- 

Government of Aimer. 

Amendments made in the rules 
published in Chief Commis- 
sioner's Notification No. 613- 
386 dated 28th May 1887 
and No. 4/1/50-L.S.G. dated 
the 19th June 1931 in so far 
as they apply to the District 
Board, State of Ajmer. 

133 

S.R.O. 1017, dated the 
23rd April 1956. 

Election 

India. 

Commission 

Election Petition No. 7’of 1935. 

134 

S.R.O. 1018, dated the 
2nd May 1956, 

Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture. 

The Tripura Food grains 

(movement) Control Order 
1936. 

135 

S.R.O. 1058, dated the 
3rd May 1956. 

Ministry of Finance 
(Revenue Division) 

Amendment in the notifleado 
No, 11- Customs, dated tyje 
12th August 1946. 

136 

S.R.O. 1059, dated the 
4th May 1956 

Ministry of Finance. 

The Central Government directs 
that except with permission 
of the Reserve Bank no person 
shall bring or send into the 
States any silver coins 
current in the Tibet region 
of China. 


( 641 ) 


642 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1950 [Part II— Sec. 8 


1 88 e 
No. 

No. and date 

Issued by 

Subject 

137 

S.R.O. 1060, dated the 
4th May 1956. 

Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture. 

The powers for the purpose of 
allowing deduction in the 
minimum price of sugarcane 
shall be exercisable by the 
cane Commissioner of Uttar 
Pradesh. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should bo 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes 


PART H— Section 3 

Statutory Roles and Orders Issued by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Chief Commissioners). 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1956 

S.R.O. 1078. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Rule 1 of Order XXVII 
In the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908), the 
Central Government hereby directs that the following further amendment shall 
be made in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Law 
No. S.R.O. 1651, dated the 1st September, 1953, relating to the appointment of 
officers to sign or verify plaints and written statements in suits in any court of 
civil jurisdiction by or against the Central Government, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification, in Part VI, which relates to the 
Ministry of Finance, under the head "Revenue Division”, after the entry “All 
Collectors of Customs”, the entry "Collector of Land Customs, Calcutta” shall be 
Inserted. 

[No. F.2S-I/63-G.] 
B. N. LOKUR, Joint Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the Ith May 1950 

S.R.O. 1079. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 3 
of the Abducted Persons (Recovery and Restoration) Act, 1949, LXV of 1949, the 
Central Governmsnt hereby notifies, for the information of all concerned, that the 
Central Muslim Transit Camp, Jullundur, established in Punjab (India), shall 
be a camp for the reception and temporary detention of abducted persons recover- 
ed in India. 

[No. AP-780/50.] 
C. M. SHARMA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 2nd May 1950 

S.R.O. 1080. — In pursuance of clause (a) of sub-section (1) and sub-section (4) 
of section 8 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (II of 1934), the Central 




Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1650 


643 


Government hereby re-appoints Shri Ram Nath as a Deputy Governor of the- 
Reserve Bank of India for a term of three years, with effect from the 9th. 
July, 1950. 

[No. F.3 (10) -FI/50.] 
K. P. BISWAS, Under Secy. 

(Department of Company Law Administration) 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1656 

S.It.O. 1081. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
(1) of section 448 of the Companies Act, 1956 (I of 1950), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Mr. Chandrika Prasad Sinha, Deputy Registrar of the High 
Court at Patna, ex-offlcio, to be the Official Liquidator attached to that Court, aa 
a part-time officer. 

[No. 2(12) -CL-III/56.J 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1956 

SJl.O. 1082.— -In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
(1) of section 448 of the Companies Act, 1956 (I of 1956), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Shri Ranjit Rai, the Registrar of the High Court of Punjab 
at Chandigarh, ex-offlcio, to be the Official Liquidator attached to that Court, as 
a part-time officer. 

[No. 2(10) -CL-III/50.] 


New Delhi , the 5th May 1956 

S.R.O. 1083. -In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
(1), of the section 448, of the Companies Act, 1956 (I of 1956), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby appoints Shri Kanhiyala! Bohra, Deputy Registrar, High Court 
of Rajasthan at Jaipur, to be the Official Liquidator attached to the Court of 
Judicial Commissioner for Ajmer, as a part-time officer. 

TNo. 2(13)-CL-III/56.) 

S.R.O. 1084. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
(1) of section 448 ; of the Companies Act, 1950, (I of 1956), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Shri Kanhiyalal Bhoro, Deputy Registrar of the High Court 
of Rajasthan at Jaipur, ex-offlcio to be the Official Liquidator attached to that 
Court, sitting both at Jaipur and Jcdhpur, as a part-time officer. 

[No. 2(13)-CL-III/56.J 
SHIV CHARAN SINGH. Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION) 

CORRIGENDUM 


Customs 


New Delhi, the 12 th May 1956 

S.R.O. 1085.— In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Fmance (Revenue Division) No. S.R.O. 495 dated the 1st March, 1956, published 
at pages 382-387 in Part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary, of the 
same date,— 


(I) In Annexure I, in the table relating to “Dimension’ for “9.0” in the second 

column against ‘Thread on cap’, read “9.5”; 

(II) In Annexure II. 

(a) in paragraph (2) CbJ (iv), for 'cased’ occurring in the first line, read 
‘eased 7 ; 


(b) in paragraph (5) (ii), for ‘0!5’ occurring in the second line, read ‘0.05’t 

and 

(c) in paragraph (5) (iii), for '—)—0.3', occurring in the second line, read 

“_|_0.3 . 

[No. 21.] 


W. SALDANHA, Dy. Secy. 


644 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1950 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1950 

S.R.O. 1086. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
(1), of section .'1, of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1933, (XXVII, of 1933), the 
Central Government hereby nominates Dr. K. M. Lai, Director of Medical and 
Health Services, Uttar Pradesh, to be a member of the Medical Council of India, 
with effect from the 10th April, 1956, vice Lt. col. (Honorary Colonel), A. N. 
Chopra, resigned. 


[No. F.5-51/56-M.L] 
K. BIHARI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

Merchant Shipping 
New Delhi, the let May 1950 

SJR.O. 1087. — In pursuance of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 213B of 
the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923), the Central Government 
hereby declares that the Governments of Brazil and of Venezuela have accepted 
the Safety Convention as defined in clause (d) of section 213 A of the said Act, 
that is to say, the Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea signed in London on 
the tenth day of June, nineteen hundred and fortyeight, as amended from time 
to time. 


[No. 40-MA(4)/50.] 
S. K. GHOSH, Dy. Secy. 


(Transport Wing) 

Ports 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1950 

S.R.O. 1088. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (h) of sub-section 
(1) of Section 8 read with sub-section (1) of Section 13A (1) of the Madras 
Port Trust Act, 1905 (Madras Act II of 1905), the Central Government hereby 
appoints the following persons as trustees on the Board of Trustees of the Port 
of Madras. 

1. Shri N. Vijiarangam. 1 Remesentatives of labour 

2. Shri C. Govindarajulu. / representatives ox laDOur. 

[No. 13C-PI(ll)/30.] 
K. NARAYANAN, Under Secy. 


(Transport Wing) 

Ports 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1950 

S.R.O. 1089, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 
3 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (XV of 1908), the Central Government is pleased 
to authorise Shri P. P. Rye, Pilot, Kandla Port to pilot vessels upto 5000 tons 
gross (excepting tankers and vessels loaded with explosives) during day light 
only in and out of the Port of Kandla. 


[No. 2-PII(48)/50.] 
D. A. R. WARKIAR, Under Secy. 



Part II— SSc. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1956 64 $ 


MINISTRY OF PRODUCTION 
New Delhi, the 2nd May 1950 

S.R.O. 1090. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section 2 of Uhe 
Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1804 (1 of J894), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendment in the notifications of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Production, No. S.R.O. 564, dated 3-3-1956, No. S.R.O. 
766, dated 31-3-1950, No. S.R.O. 757, dated 31-3-1956 and No. S.R.O. 929, dated 
9-4-1950, namely: — 

In para 3 of the said notifications for the words ‘Chief Mining Engineer, State 
Collieries, Ministry of Production, Government of India, and his staff and work- 
men’, the’ following words shall be substituted, namely: — 

"the Chief Mining Engineer, State Collieries, Ministry of Production, Gov- 
ernment of India, the Director, Geological Survey of India, Ministry 
of Natural Resources & Scientific Research, Government of India, 
the Director. Indian Bureau of Mines, Ministry of Natural Resource* 
and Scientific Research, Government of India, and their staff and 
workmen". 

[No. C2-7(5)/55.] 

S.RO 1091. — In pursuance of sub-section (1) of section 15 of the Coal Mine# 
(Conservation and Safety) Act, 1952 (XII of 1952), read with rule 20 of the 
Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety) Rules, 1854, the Central Government 
hereby constitutes a Technical Advisory Committee (Mining) which shall 
consist of the following members, namely: — 

Chairman 

Shri M. L. Shome, Chief Mining Engineer/Member Secretary Coal Board. 

Members 

Shri G. S. Jabbi, Deputy Chief Inspector of Mines in India, Dhanbad an 
Inspector nominated by the Chief Inspector of Mines. 

Shri S. G. Krishnan, Mining Adviser, Government Railways. 

Shri D. R. S. Mehta, Assistant Director, Geological Survey of India — 
Nominee of the Director of Geological Survey of India. 

Coopted Members 

Shri S. C. Ghosh, M/s, Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd., 

Shri A. A. Beard, M/s. Bird & Co., Representatives of the mining interests. 

Shri S. Mukherjee Inspecting Officer, Coal Board, will act as Secretary to 
the Committee. 

[No. 25-CI (22) /55.) 

S.R.O. 1092. — In exercise of the Power conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
IB of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety) Act. 1952 (XII of 1952), read 
with rule 21 of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety) Rules, 1954, the Central 
Government hereby constitutes an Advisory Committee on Stowing, which shall 
consist of the following persons, namely: — 

Chairman 

Shri P. M. Nayak, I.C.S., Chairman, Coal Board. 

Members 

Shri S. S. Grewal, Chief Inspector of Mines in India, 

Shri A. N. Lahiri, Director, Fuel Research Institute, 

Shri W. H. S. Michelmore, 

M/b, Bird and Co., 

Shri R. P. Rosser, 

M/s. Bengal Coal Co. Ltd., Representatives nominated by the Indian Mining 
Association. 

Shri Amritlal J. Chanchani, 135-Canning Street, Calcutta, Representative 
nominated by the Indian Mining Federation. 




<46 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1988 [Part II— Sec. 3 


Shri Rasciklal Worah, 135, Canning Street, Calcutta, Representative 
nominated by the Indian Colliery Owners Association. 

Shri M, L. Shome, Chief Mining Engineer of the Board, has been nominated 
by the Chairman, as the Secretary to the said Committee. 


[No. 25-CI(31)/55.] 
A. NANU, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1950 

S.R.O. 1093. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), the 
Central Government, in consultation with the Custodian General of Evacuee 
Property, hereby appoints, for the State of Delhi, Shri P. N. Sehgal, Regional 
Settlement Commissioner, Delhi, as Custodian of Evacuee Property with effect 
from the afternoon of the 7th April 1956. 


[No. XVI-21 (17) /50-Prop.II.] 
J. J. KARAM, Under Secy. 


New Delhi , the 1st May 1956 

S.R.O. 1094.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
flection 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri G. B. K. Hooja. I.A.S., 
as Regional Settlement Commissioner, for the purpose of performing the 
functions assigned to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the 
date he took charge of his office. 


[No. 5/11/56-SII.] 

S.R.O. 1095. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri H. R. Nair, as Additional 
Settlement Commissioner, for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such commissioner by or under the said Act. 


[No. 5/12/56-SII.] 


New Delhi, the 2nd May 1956 

S.R.O. 1096.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act 1954 (44 of 
1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Dwarka Dass Suri as 
Regional Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he 
took charge of his post. 


[No. 5/13/56-SII (II) .] 


New Delhi, the 5th May 1956 

S.R.O. 1097. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (No. 12 of 1954), the 
Central Government hereby appoints Servashri Sardari Lai Jain, M. R. Bhagat and 
R. N. Dhingra, as Settlement Officers for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officers by or under the said Act. with effect from the date they 
took charge of their office. 

The Central Government, also appoints the said officers as Additional Settle- 
ment Commissioners for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officers by or under the said Act, with effect from the same date. 

[No. 6/5/56-SII(I) .] 
T. R. CHOPRA, Under Secy. 



Past II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1986 647 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1956 

S.R.O. 1098. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub-section (2) of 
Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954, (XII of 
1954), read with rule 99 of the rules framed under section 40, of the Displaced 
Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954, (44 of 1954), 1 delegate to 
Shri Mehar Singh Chaddah, Settlement Commissioner, with effect from 30th April, 
1956, the following powers of the Chief Settlement Commissioner, namely: — 

1. Power to allocate Rehabilitation Grant Applications to the Settlement 

Officers by general or special order under-section (1) of section 4 of 
the said Act. 

2. Power to require a Settlement Officer to appoint one or more persons to 

advise him in any proceeding pending before him, under sub-section 
(2) of Section 6 of the said Act. 

3. Power to transfer any Rehabilitation Grant Application pending before 

a Settlement Officer to another Settlement Officer under Section 7 of 
the said Act. 

4. Power to call for the record of any case decided by the Settlement Officer 

and pass order in the case under provision to sub-section (3) of 
Section 4 of the said Act. 

[No. 14(ll)CSC/JudI-56.] 

L. J. J.OHNSON, Jt. Secy, 
and Chief Settlement Commissioner. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1956 

S.R.O. 1099. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby appoints, 
for a period of one year, the officers mentioned in column 1 of the Table annexed 
hereto as conciliation officers for the quarrying industry in the area specified in 
the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Table. 

Table 


Designation of officer. 

Territorial jurisdiction. 

I 

2 

1. Conciliation Officer, Madhya 

Bharat, UJjain. 

State of Madhya Bharat. 

2. Assistant Commissioner of 

Labour, Shimoga Division 
Bhadravathi. 

Sunoga District in the State of 
Mysore. 


[No. L.R.l (25) /55.] 


New Delhi, the 5th May 1956 


S.R.O. 1100,— In pursuance of paragraph 3 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund 
Scheme published with the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour, No. PF-15(5)48, dated the 11th December, 1948, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby nominates Shri O. V. Ramadorai, Deputy Secretary to the Govern- 
ment of India, Ministry of Finance, to the Board of Trustees and makes the 



THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, MAY 12, 1960 


[Part II — Sec. ft 


£48 


following amendment In the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour, No. S.R.O. 2227, dated the 5th October, 1955, namely: — 

In the said notification, for the entry "(2) Shri N. V. Vehkataraman, 
Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Finance”, 
the entry "(2) Shri O. V. Ramadorai, Deputy Secretary to the 
Government of India, Ministry of Finance, New Delhi" shall be 
substituted. 

[No. PF-4(20)/6fl.} 


New Delhi , the 7th May 1950 

S.R.O. 1101. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

i XIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
re All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes) Calcutta in the matter of an 
application under section 33A of the said Act from Shri Gobardhan Napit, of 
Bhowra Colliery. 


ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (COLLIERY DISPUTES), CALCUTTA 
Application No. 48 or 1955 u/a. 33A of the I. D. Act, 1947. 

Present: 

Shri J. N. Majumdar, Chairman. 

Shri S. P. Chopra, Member. 

Shri T. N. Mallappa, Member. 

Parties: 

Shri Gobardhan Napit. Munshi No. 4 Incline, Bhowra Colliery, 
C/o. Eastern Coal Co. Collieries Workers’ Union, P, O. Jealgora, 
Manbhum, Bihar. — Applicant. 

V». 

The Agent, Bhowra Colliery, P. O. Jealgora, Manbhum. Bihar. — 
Opposite Party. 

Appearances: 

Shri Lalit Bur man. — for the Applicant. 

Shri a P. Saha, Law Officer, assisted by Shri Madan Lai Pandit, Wel- 
fare Officer of the Co. — for the Opp. Party. 

AWARD 


Dated , the, 29 th March, 1950. 


This is an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 
filed bv Shr i Gobardhan Napit, Munshi No. 4 Lncline, Bhowra Colliery seeking 
relief against his dismissal from the employment of the opposite party The 
opposite party has filed a reply statement. It is not necessary to go into the 
merits of the case as the parties have settled the dispute as follows: — 


The Applicant accepts retrenchment on the following terms: — 


( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 

(3) 

In the 


That the Company will give him a clean certificate. 

That Shri Madan Lai, the Welfare Officer will try his best to procure a 
job for the applicant. 


That in full and final settlement of the applicant’s claim, the company 
undertakes to pay him Rs. 1100/- on his calling at the Colliery office 
at any time during office hours on the 29th March, 1950. 

result we pass an award in terms of the above. 

(Sd.) J. N. Majumdar, Chairman. 


(Sd.) S. P. Chopra, Member. 

(Sd.) T. N. Mallappa, Member. 

[No. LRII-53-2 (2) /58-II.] 


Past II — Bsc. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, T&XY 12, 1930 


549 


New Delhi, the 8th May 19b6 

S R O Iioa —In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947)* 
the Central" Government hereby publishes the following award of the AH India Industrial Tribu- 
nal tCnllierv DisDUtes), Calcutta in the matter of an application under section 33 A of the said Act 
from Shri Cwari Dhobi and others of Banladih Workshop of Giridih Colliery. 

ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (COLLIERY DISPUTES), CALCUTTA 


Application No. 6 of 1955 (u/s 33A of the Act) 
Present : 

Shri J. N. Ma)umdar — Chairman . 

Shri S. P. Chopra — Member. 

Shri T. N. Mallappa —Member. 

Parties : 


SI. 

No. 


Name 


Designation Address Applicant 


1 Banwari Dhobi 


Mechanic, 
Baniadih 
Workshop 
of Giridih 


The Coal 
Workers 
Union 
Giridih 


Do. 


2 

Chamroo Dohar - 



Colliery 

Do. 

Do. 

Da 

3 

Durga Hazam 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

4 

Govind Gope 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

5 

Butto Dusadh 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

6 

Kahar Gope 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

7 

Bux Meah 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

8 

Akuf Meah . 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

9 

Miari Hazam 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

10 

Madhu Das 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

II 

Chi|inak Sekh 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

12 

Kannu Teli 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

13 

Jagar Nath Hazam 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

14 

S. D. Misra 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

15 

Jagdish Lahar 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

16 

Kamaleshwar Prasad 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

17 

Muhabir Dhobi 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

is 

Ram Kishun Kumar 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

19 

Monilal Lohar 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

20 

Chintamani Lohar 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

21 

Ram Kishun Lohar 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

22 

Bawl Barhl 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

23 

Dhananjoy Prosad 



. . Do.. 

Do. 

Do. 

24 

Dasarat Meah 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

25 

Pir Bux Mean 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

26 

Bhatu Gope 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

27 

Gazo Lai Lohar . 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 


$50 THE GAZETTE of INDIA, MAY 12, 1960 [Part II— Sec. 3 

Vs. 

1. The Chief Mining Engineer, Railway Board, i. Council House Street, Calcutta. 

2. Superintendent of Collieries, Giridih — Opp. Party 


Appearance : 

AWARD 

Dated the 20 th February, 1956 

This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 by Shri Ban- 
wari Dhobi St 26 others against the Chief Mining Engineer, Railway Board, and the Colliery Sup- 
erintendent, Giridih Collieries. A reply statement has been filled by the Superintendent of Col- 
lieries, Giridih. But it is not necessary to go into the merits of the dispute as the applicants have 
addressed a petition to the Tribunal seeking its permission to withdraw the application as they do 
not desire to contest the case. The Additional Chief Mining Engineer, State Collieries has writ- 
ten to say that there is no objection to the Tribunal passing an Award permitting the withdrawal 
as desired by the applicants. Under the circumstances, we dismiss the application. 

(Sd.) J. N. Majumdar, Chairman- 
(Sd.) S. P. Chopra, Member. 

(Sd.) T. N. Mallappa, Member. 


[No. LR II-j 5-2(2 )/j 6 -i.] 
R. C. SAKSENA, Under Secy. 


Netn Delhi, the 1st May 1950 


S.R.O. 1103. — The following draft of an amendment to the Coal Mines Labour 
Welfare Fund Rules, 1949, which the Central Government proposes to make in 
exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare 
Fund Act, 1947 (XXXII of 1947), Is published as required by sub-section (1) of 
the said section for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby 
and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into consideration on or 
after the 10th June 1936. 


Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person in respect 
o< the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 


Draft Amendment 


In sub-rule (3) of rule 21 of the said rules, for the words ‘‘any new welfare 
and housing scheme”, the words “any welfare and housing scheme” shall be 
substituted. 


[No. CLFR/AM (MI-1 (1) 60.] 
P. D. COMMAR, Under Secy. 



Pah* 11 — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1850 


651 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi the 28 th April 1950 

S.R.O. 1104. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by clause 20 of the Cotton Control Order, 
1955 and with the previous sanction of the Central Government, I, V. Nanjappa Textile Com- 
missioner, hereby authorise, in supersession of the notifications of the Textile Commissioner No 
S.R.O. 875 dated the 7th November, 1950 and No. S.R.O. 3620 dated the 30th November, 1955' 
each of the officers specified in column (2) of the Schedule appended to this notification’to ex- 
ercise on my behalf the functions and powers of the Textile Commissioner under the clauses of 
the said Order specified in the corresponding entry in column (3) of that Schedule. 1 

Schedule 


Ol. 

No. Designations of Officers. Clause. 

(1) (2) (3) 


1. Cotton Adviser, Office of the Textile Commissioner, Bombay . "| J, 6 and 7(1) 

2. (1) Cotton Adviser, Office of the Textile Commissioner, Bombay. | 12 and 13(1) 

(2) All Licencing Authorities appointed by the various State ' 

Governments. 

(3) All Collectors of Districts in the Madras State. 

(4) All Revenue Divisional Officers in the Madras State. 

<5) The Sub-Collector, Pollachi in the Madras State. 

(6) The Commissioner, Civil Supplies, Government of Rajas- 
than, Jaipur. 

(7) The Additional Director of Civil Supplies, Government of 

Patiala and East Punjab States Union, Patiala. 

(8) All Deputy Commissioners in the Patiala and East Punjab 

States Union. 

(9) The Assistant Commissioner (Textiles) in the Patiala and East 
Punjab States Union. 

(10) The Assistant Controller of Civil Supplies, Government of 
Mysore, Bangalore. 

3. (1) Deputy Director (Cotton) Office of the Textile Commissioner, 

Bombay. 

(2) All Licensing Authorities appointed by the various State 

Governments, j_ 

(3) Industrial Adviser (Textile Production) office of the Textile V ' 

Commissioner, Bombay 

(4) Director (Production & Development) Office of the Textile 

Commissioner, Bombay. 

(5) Deputy Director (Production & Development) Office of the 

Textile Commissioner, Bombay. 

(6) Assistant Director (Production & Development) Office of the 

Textile Commissioner, Bombay, 

(7) Deputy Director (Production) Bombay Region, Bombay. 

(8) Director (Production), Regional Directorate of Production, 

Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, Ahmedabad. 

(9) Assistant Director (Production), Regional Directorate of Pro- 

duction, Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, 

Ahmedabad. 

(10) Deputy Director (Production), Regional Directorate of Pro- 
duction, Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, Indore. 

(11) Assistant Director (Production), Regional Directorate of 
Production, Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, 

Indore. 

(12) Deputy Director (Production), Regional Directorate of 
Production, Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, 

Kanpur. 

(13) Assistant Director (Production), Regional Directorate of 
Production, Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, 

Kanpur. 

(14) Deputy Director (Production), Regional Directorate of Pro- 
duction, Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, Calcutta, 


6$2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1956 


[Part II — Sec. S 


(i) 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


(ij) Assistant Director (Production), Regional Directorate of 
Production, Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, 
Calcutta. 

(16) Deputy Director (Production), Regional Directorate of Pro- 
duction, Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, Coim- 
batore, 

(17) Assistant Director (Production), Regional Directorate of 
Production, Branch Office of the Textile Commissioner, 
Coimbatore. 

(t8) Special Officer (Textile), Office of the Director of Industries 
and Commerce, Madras State, Madras. 


V. Naniappa, 
Texlilt Commissiomr, 

[N 0.24 ( 22 >CT (A)/jj-6.}‘ 
V. V. NENE, Under Secy. 


Coffee Control 
New Delhi, the 4th May 1956 

S.R.O. 1105. — Shri M. H. Appu Menon, Secretary, Coffee Board, Bangalore, has 
been granted earned leave for twenty-three days with effect from 20tn March, 
1956 to 11th April, 1956, with permission to suffix the holidays on the 12th and 
13th April, I960. 

[No. 13(9)Plant/56.] 


Tea Control 

New Delhi, the 7th May, 1956 

S.R.O. 1106. — The following draft of an amendment in the Tea Buies, 1954, 
which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by section 49 of the Tea Act, 1953 (29 of 1953) is published as required 
by sub-section (1) of the said section for the information of all persons likely 
to be affected thereby; and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken 
into consideration on or after 28th May, 1956. 

2. Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft amendment 

In rule 6 of the said Rules — 

(i) the proviso shall be omitted; 

(il) after sub-rule (2), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely; 

“(3) The office of a member of the Board or the Committee shall fall 
vacant from the date on which his resignation is accepted or on 
the expiry of 30 days from the date of receipt of intimation of 
resignation whichever is earlier.” 

[No. 32 (2) Plant/50.] 
P. V. RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 7th May 1956 

S.R.O. 1107./IDRA/1Q/2/56. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 
(LXV of 1951), the Central Government hereby fixes a period of eight months from 
the date of this notification, as the period within which the owner of every existing 
industrial undertaking pertaining to the steel forgings industry not being the 
Central Government, shall register the undertaking in the prescribed manner. 

[No. 4(0)IA(GA)/63.] 



Paht Ilj — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA,' MAY 12, 1956 


653 


S.R.O. 1108. /IDEA /29B / 2/ 56. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
20B of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (LXV of 1951), the 
■Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, S.R.O. 
No. 816, dated the 8th March, 1954, namely: — 

In the said notification, after entry 33, the following entry shall be inserted, 
namely: — 

“34. Steel Forgings." 

[No. 4(6)IA(GA)/53.] 
D. N, KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 8 th Man 1950 
IRON AND STEEL (CONTROL) ORDER, 1950 

S.R.O. 1109./ESS.COMM/IRON AND STEEL.— In exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955) and in 
supersession of all previous Orders on the subject, the Central Government 
'hereby makes the following Order: — 

Part I — Preliminary 

1. (1) This Order may be called the Iron and Steel (Control) Order, 1966. 

(2) It extends to the whole of India, except the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 

(3) It shall come into force with effect from the date on which this Order is 
notified in the Gazette of India. 

2, Definitions. — In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires: — 

(a) "controlled source” means: — 

(i) a producer, 

(ii) a Railway Administration, 

(iii) any factory, local authority, scrap merchant or person declared_by the 

Controller to be “Controlled Source”. 

(b) “controlled stockholder” means a stockholder appointed by the Controller 
to hold stocks of iron or steel under such terms and conditions as he may prescribe 
from time to time. 

(c) "controller” means the person appointed as Iron and Steel Controller by 
the Central Government and includes any person exercising, upon authorisation 
by the Central Government, all or any of the powers of the Iron and Steel 
Controller. 

(d) “factory” means a factory as defined in clause (m) of section 2 of the 
Factories Act, 1948 (LXIII of 1948), other than a factory managed by a producer 
or a Railway Administration. 

(e) “local authority" shall have the meaning assigned to it by sub-section 
(28) of Section 3 of the General Clauses Act, 1887 (X of 1897). 

(f) “pressure pipes” includes all pipes and tubes of 1/8 in. nominal bore and 
above which will withstand or may be used for a working pressure of 25 lbs. per 
square inch and above. 

(g) "producer” means a person carrying on the business of manufacturing iron 
or steel. 

(h) "registered producer” means a producer who is registered as such by the 
Controller. 

(i) "stockholder” means a person holding stocks of iron or steel for sale who 
Is registered as a stockholder by the Controller. 

(j) “scrap” means all iron or steel material which is commonly known as 
scrap and includes defective iron or steel material whether it is suitable only for 
re-rolling or re-melting or can be used for other purposes. 

Explanation. — A certificate signed by the Controller or any officer authorised 
by him in this behalf shall be conclusive proof that the material in respect of 
which the certificate is issued is “Scrap” for the purpose of this Order. 



654 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1956 [Part II— Sec. 3 


(k) "scrap merchant” means a person other than a producer (including a 
Registered Producer), who carries on the business of acquiring, sorting and 
classifying scrap for disposal. 

Part II — Iron and Steel — Prime quality 

3. (1) Application of this Part. — The provisions of this Part shall apply to all 
iron and steel of the categories specified in the Schedule to this Order: 

Provided that the Provisions of this Part shall not apply to any fabricated 
iron or steel of the categories specified in the said Schedule when such fabrication 
is done under the authority of or in accordance with the conditions contained or 
incorporated in a general or special written order of the Controller or under the 
authority of a quota certificate or permit issued under clauses 4 or 5, as the case 
may be. 

(2) A certificate signed by the Controller or by any officer authorised by him 
in this behalf, In respect of any category of iron or steel, shall be conclusive proof 
that it is an article to which this Part is applicable. 

4. Acqulstion. — No person shall acquire or agree to acquire any iron or steel 
from a producer or stockholder except under the authority of and In accordance 
with the conditions contained in a quota certificate or permit Issued by the Con- 
troller or under the authority of ana in accordance with the conditions contained 
or incorporated in a general or special written order of the Controller. 

5. Disposal. — No person, who acquires Iron or steel under Clause 4, or no 
producer shall dispose of or agree to dispose of or export or agree to export from 
any place to which this Order extends any iron or steel, except In accordance 
with the conditions contained or incorporated in a special or general written 
order of the Controller. 

6. Carriers, warehousemen and servants. — For the purposes of clauses 4 and 5 
any acquisition by or disposal to a carrier or warehouseman or servant acting in 
the ordinary course of business or employment as such of any iron and steel shall 
be deemed to be only an acquisition by or disposal to the person on whose behalf 
or to whose order the carrier, warehouseman or servant so acquired that steel 
and any acquisition from or disposal by a carrier or warehouseman or servant 
acting as aforesaid of any iron or steel shall be deemed to be only an acquisition 
from or disposal by the person on whose behalf or to whose order the carrier, 
warehouseman or servant so disposes of that steel. 

7. Use of Iron and Steel to conform to conditions governing acquisition. — A 

person acquiring iron or steel in accordance with the provisions of clause 4 shall 
not use the iron or steel otherwise than in accordance with any conditions con- 
tained or incorporated in the document which was the authority for the 
acquisition: 

Provided that notwithstanding porvisions of this Part or the conditions govern- 
ing the acquisition of any categories of iron or steel, the Controller may, by a 
written order, require any person holding stocks of Iron or steel either to release 
by way of loan or sell the whole or any part of the stock to such person or class 
of persons on such tenns and conditions as may be specified in the order. 

In the exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso, the Controller may 
have regard to the following matters, namely:— 

(a) the requirements of the persons holding such stocks; 

(b) the requirements of the persons needing such stocks; 

(c) transport facilities available; and 

(d) any other factor including a strike or lock-out affecting production or 

fabrication 

8 . Surrender of revoked authorities. — Where any quota certificate, permit or 
written order, refened to in clause 4 or 5 is revoked by the authority w'hlch issued 
It, the person to whom it was issued shall forthwixh return it to the authority 
which issued it. 

9. Surrender of authorities at the time of acquisition. — A person disposing of 
iron or steel in accordance with the provisions of clause 5 shall obtain from the 
person acquiring the steel the document which is the authority for the disposal 
and acquisition and shall preserve it, tmd when so required shall deliver it to the 
Controller or to such person as the Controller may direct. 



Past n — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1968 


«55 


10. Power to direct sale. — The Controller may, by a written order, require any 
person holding stock of iron and steel, acquired by him otherwise than in 
accordance with the provisions of clause 4, to sell the whole or any part of the 
stock to such person or class of persons and on such terms and conditions as 
may be specified in the Order. 

11. Power to prohibit Removal, — The Controller may order any producer (in- 
cluding a registered producer), any stockholder (including a controlled stock- 
holder) or any other person not to remove or permit the removal of any iron or 
steel, whether sold or unsold, from his stockyard or from any other part of his 
premises to any place outside the precincts of such stockyard or premises, except 
with the written permission of the Controller. 

12. Power to require keeping of accounts and to obtain Information. — (1) Every 

Producer and every stockholder and other person holding stocks of iron or steel 
shall keep such books, accounts and records relating to the business carried on 
by him as tne Controller may require. 

(2) Every producer or stockholder or person holding stock of iron or steel and 
every person employed in connection with the business of a producer or stock- 
holder or person holding stocks of iron or steel, shall on being requested bo to 
do, either by notice served on him or special or general direction issued by the 
Controller: — 


(a) produce to such person such stocks of iron or steel and such accounts 

and other documents and within such period as may be specified in 
the notice or direction; 

(b) furnish to the Controller such estimates, returns and other information 

relating to the business and within such period as may be specified in 
the notice or direction. 

, It 1 . Controller may, where he is satisfied that such action is necessary 
nr „ te - the production of iron or steel with the demands for iron 

m.i?. ■ W j 1 ch b av e arisen or are likely to arise under authorisations to acquire 
duly issued under this part: 

(a) prohibit, with effect from such date as he may specify, the manufacture 

■ ^ producer of iron or steel of any of the categories specified 

™ Schedule to this Order, otherwise than in accordance with 
any general or special directions issued by the Controller; 

(b) require, with effect from such date and with reference to such periods 

Controller may specify, any producer to obtain approval to his 
programme of manufacture of iron or steel of any of the categories 
specified In the Schedule to this Order; 7 gones 

(c) require, with effect from such date as the Controller may specify, any 

Producer to manufacture iron or steel of such categories as "he is 
capable of manufacturing in accordance either with Programmes of 
production approved under sub-clause (b) of this clause or with 
special instructions issued by the Controller. 

14 ' Controller may by order in writing direct any stockholder or other 

lr ?£ or steel to maintain a list of the godowns and stock- 
yards with the boundaries thereof, where iron or steel belonging to him is stocked 
and to exhibit such bst on his business premises. The Controller may in any such 
order give directions as to the manner in which the order is to be carried out. 

“ 2ES- JK 

particular, ap“i»ld T a Th AmS? p “ rch "» r 8 memorandum containing the 
<J^LZ° dU £ T -’ a I cckholder ’, or other Person holding stocks of iron and steel 

K a ?o refuse t0 Eel1 “ y lron or steel whlch he Is -ASS 

l ft t po ? sibilit y or expectation of obtaining a higher price at a 

ctause ' 31 Gt te deemed t0 be a sufflcIent CBU8e for the purposed thil 

flcatlon P ?n"the°Garette* < of India ift t,” 1 ™."" <f™ «» to time by noli, 

ateel may be by a producer, <b, “Zitffie’r E.SS& fUSSl.S 



THE GAOB&Fft OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1056 


[Pact II— Sec. 8 


<36 


stockholder and (c) by any other person or class of persons. Such price or prices 
may differ for iron and steel obtainable from different sources and may include 
allowances for contribution to and payment from any Equalisation Fund establish- 
ed by the Controller for equalising freight, the concession rates payable to each 
producer or class of producers under agreements entered into by the Controller 
with the producers from time to time, and any other disadvantages. The Con- 
troller may also, by a general or special order in writing, require any person or 
•class of persons enumerated above to pay such amount on account of allowances 
for contribution to any Equalisation Fund, within such period and in such manner 
as the Controller may direct in this behalf. 


(2) For the purpose of applying the prices notified under sub-clause (1) the 
Controller may himself classify any iron and steel and may, if no appropriate 
price has been so notified, fix such price as he considers appropriate: 


Provided that where any stocks are required by a special order of the Con- 
troller to be moved from one place to another or are to be sold at a place which, 
is not connected with any railhead, the Controller may direct that the maximum 
prices fixed under sub-clause (1) or (2), shall not apply to such stocks and may, 
in respect of such stocks, specify the maximum prices at which the iron or steel 
may be sold. 

(3) No producer or stockholder or other person shall sell or offer to sell, and 
no person shall acquire, any iron or steel at a price exceeding the maximum prices 
fixed under sub-clause (1) or (2). 


10. Power to control the creation of new productive capacity. — No persons shall, 
except under the authority of, and in accordance with the conditions specified in, 
general or special order of the Controller: — 


(a) erect, re-erect, construct or extend any buildings or works intended for 

the production of iron or steel; 

(b) instal any plant or equipment, including any machine tools for the pro- 

duction of iron or steel. 

17. Power of Central Government to give directions. — The Central Government 
may give directions as to the procedure to be followed by the authorities issuing 
quota certificates, permits or written orders, referred to in Clauses 4 and 5, as to 
the maintenance by the Controller of records in connection with the distribution 
•of iron or steel and generally for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of 
this part. 


Part III — Defectives and Scrap 

18. Acquisition of Scrap. — No producer shall acquire or agree to acquire any 
scrap except under the authority of and in accordance with the conditions con- 
tained or Incorporated In a written Order of the Controller, and no person or 
authority other than a producer shall acquire or agree to acquire any scrap from 
a controlled source save under the authority of and in accordance with the con- 
ditions contained or incorporated in a written order of the Controller. 

19. Use of Scrap to conform to conditions governing aequtoition. — A person 

acquiring scrap in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18 shall not use It 
otherwise than in accordance with any conditions contained or incorporated In 
the document which was the authority for the acquisition. 

20. Disposal of Scrap, — No person or authority having the management of a 
controlled source shall sell or otherwise dispose of any scrap save under the 
authority of and in accordance with the conditions contained or Incorporated In a 
written order of the Controller, 

21. Carriers, warehousemen, and servants. — For the purpose of clauses 18 and 
20 any acquisition by or disposal to a carrier, warehouseman or servant acting 
in the ordinary course of his business or employment as such of any scrap shall 
be deemed to De only an acquisition by or disposal to the person on whose behalf 
or to whose order the carrier, warehouseman or servant so acquires that scrap; 
and any acquisition from or disposal by a carrier, warehouseman or servant acting 
as , °, resa ^' any scran shall be deemed to be only an acquisition from or dis- 
posal by the person on whose behalf or to whose order the carrier, warehouseman 
or servant so disposes of that scarp. 

22. Power to direct sale. — The Controller may, by a written order, require any 
person holding stock of scrap, acquired by him otherwise than in accordance with 
the provisions of clause 18 to sell the whole or any part of the stock to such person 



Part IX— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1056 


<*57 


or class of persons and on such terms and conditions as may be specified in the 
Order, 

23. Power to prohibit removal. — The Controller may order any controlled 
source, scrap merchant or any oilier person not to remove or permit the removal 
of any scrap, whether sold or unsold, from his stockyard or from any other part 
of his premises to any place outside the precincts of such stockyard or premises 
except with the written permission of the Controller. 

24. Regulation of controlled sources. — The Controller may from time to time 
issue directions to the person or authority having the management of any controlled 
source requiring him:— 


(a) to keep such books, accounts, and records relating to his business 
as the Controller may specify in the direction; 


(b) to produce to such person as may be mentioned in the direction such 

stocks of scrap and such accounts and other documents as the Con- 
troller may specify in the direction; 

(c) to furnish to the Controller such estimates, returns ond other infor- 

mation relating to the business as may be mentioned in the direction; 

(d) to sort the scrap in his possession from lime to time in accordance with 

such classification as may be mentioned in the direction. 


2a. Declarations, written orders and directions. — (1) Declarations under clause 
2(a) and directions under clause 24 shall be in writing and shall be delivered to 
the porson or authority concerned personally or by registered post. 

(2) Written orders under clause 18 or clause 20 may be made by the Controller 
on application or of his own motion and shall be delivered to the person or 
authority concerned personally or by registered post. 


, The person or authority to whom a direction or written order is addressed 
therein° m,:> y w nh the same, and with any conditions contained or incorporated 


4. When a written order is revoked by the Controller, the person or authority 
to whom it was addressed shall forthwith return it to the Controller. 


26. (1) The Controller may by order in writing direct any controlled source 
or scrap merchant or other person holding stocks of scrap to maintain a list of 
the godowns and stockyards with the boundaries thereof, where scrap belonging 
to him is stocked, and to exhibit such list on his business premises. The Con- 
troller may m any such order give directions as to the manner in which the 
order is to be carried out. 


(2) The Controller may, by notification in the Gazette of India, direct that 
every controlled source, scrap merchant or other person holding stocks of scrap 
when selling any scrap shall give to the purchaser a memorandum containing the 
particulars specified in such notification. 

27. Controller’s power to fix prices— (1) The Controller shall from time to 
nt the approval of the Central Government publish by notification in 
the Gazette of India prices for different classes of scrap. Such prices may differ 
for scrap obtainable from different persons and classes of persons, may specify 
buyers and sellers’ prices and may include allowances for contributions to any 
Equalisation fund established by the Controller for equalising freight and other 
disadvantages. 

(2) For the purpose of applying the prices notified under sub-clause (1) of 
this clause, the Controller may himself classify any scrap and, may, if no appro- 
priate price has been so notified, fix such price as he considers appropriate. 

Provided that the Controller may direct that the maximum prices fixed under 
sub-clauses (1) or (2) shall not apply to any specified stocks of scrap held by 
Railways or any other department of Government including Government Cor- 
porations, like Slndri Fertilisers & Chemicals Limited, Hindustan Steel Limited 
and the like, and may,- in - respect of Buch stocks specify the maximum prices at 
which such scrap may be sold, 

(3) When an accumulation of scrap contains heavy pieces which in the opinion 
Of the Controller should be broken up before the scrap is disposed of, the Con- 
troller may direct the person or authority having the management of the con- 
trolled source concerned to break up the scrap to a suitable size, and may, if hia 
direction is not complied with, reduce the price of the scrap so as to cover the 
cost to the purchaser of breaking it up. 



658 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MA'V 12, 1950 


(4) No person shall sell or offer to sell or otherwise dispose of, and no person 
shall acquire, any scrap at prices in excess of those notified or fixed by the 
Controller under this clause. 


Part IV — General 


28, Powers of the Controller. — The Controller may, with a view to securing 
compliance with this Orders 

(a) require any person to give such Information In his possession in respect 

of stocks of iron or steel or of scrap acquired by him or In respect of 
any business carried on by that or any other person; 

(b) Inspect or cause to be inspected any stocks of iron or steel or of scrap 

held by any person and any books or other documents belonging to 
or under the control of any person; 

(c) enter and search, or authorise any person to enter and search, any 

premises and seize any article in respect of which he has reason to 
believe that a contravention of this Order has been, is being or is 
about to be committed, and any other article in the premises which 
he has reason to believe has been or is intended to be used in con- 
nection with such contravention. 


29. Savins's. — Notwithstanding the supersession of the Iron and Steel (Con- 
trol of Production and Distribution) Order, 1941 and the Iron and Steel (Scrap 
Control) Order, 1943 any order or appointment made, licence or permit granted, 
quota certificate or direction issued by any authority whatsoever, under either or 
the above orders, and in force immediately before the commencement of this 
Order, shall be deemed as to be the order or appointment made the licence or 
permit granted the quota certificate or direction issued under this Order and 
•hall continue fo be in force. 

The Schedule 


( See Clause 3) 

Iron and Steel to which Part II applies 

Pig Iron. 

Ingots, Blooms, Billets, Tin Bars, Sheet Bars, and Slabs. 

Steel castings. 

Heavy atructurals (including heavy sections of joists, channels and angles). 
Light structural (including light sections of joists, channels, angles, tees and 
light rails of 30 lbs. and under). 

Tyres, Wheels and Axles. 

Shell steel Ingots, Blooms, Billets and Bars. 

Heavy rails (over 30 lbs), Fishplates, Dogspikes, Chair spikes. Screw spikes. 
Tinplate, Temeplate. 

Black sheets (Plain and corrugated). 

Galvanised sheets (Plain and corrugated). 

Plates (Shipbuilding). 

Plates (Ordinary mild steel and tensile). 

Plates (Bullet-Proof) . 

Bars (including flats, squares, rounds, hexagons and rods). 

Bolts (including Fish Bolts), Nuts and Rivets. 

Black or Galvanised Wire, whether plain or barbed. 

Wire Nalls. 

Wire (Miscellaneous) 

Hoops and Strips, 

Spring Steel in any unfabricated or semi-fabricated form. 

Tool Steel In any unfabricated or semi-fabricated form. - 
Wrought Iron pressure pipes and tubes, steel pressure pipes and tubes. 
Wrought Iron fittings, malleable iron fittings and steel fittings, coated or 
uncoated, excluding electrical conduit pipes. 

Cast Iron Pressure Pipes and Specials. 

Wire Ropes. 


[No. SC(A)-4(253).] 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1956 659 


S.R.O. 1110./ESS.COMM./IRON&STEEL-4&5.— The following Notification 
issued by the Iron and Steel Controller under clauses 4 and 5 of the Iron and 
Steel (Control) Order, 1956, is hereby published for general information:— 

"Notification 

In pursuance of the provisions of clauses 4 and 5 of the Iron and Steel (Control) 
Order, 1956, and in supersession of all previous notifications on the subject, I 
hereby authorise that, subject to the general conditions set out below: — 

(I) any person may acquire, without permit, the articles specified in item 

(a) of the following entries from the persons specified in item (b) 
of the said entries from the stocks mentioned in item (c): — 

(II) the persons specified at item (b) of the following entries may dispose 

of, without permit, the articles specified in item (a) of the said 
entries from the stocks mentioned in item (c) : — 

1. (a) (1) Tyres, Wheels and Axles. 

(2) Dog-spikes. 

(3) Bolts (including Fish Bolts), Nuts and Rivets. 

(4) Wire Nails. 

(5) Tool Steel in any unfabricated or semi -fabricated form. 

(6) Cast Iron Pressure Pipes and Specials. 

(7) Wire Ropes. 

(8) Any variety of Pipes, Tubes and Fittings (indigenous or 
imported) ; 

(b) any person; 

(c) any stocks. 

2. (a) Black Sheets (Plain,) Galvanised Sheets (Plain), Galvanised 

Sheets (Corrugated) and Plates — any quantity; 

(b) any stockholder other than a Registered Producer or a Controlled 
Stockholder; 

(c) from stocks held for a period exceeding 90 days, or for a lesser 
period if the State Licensing Authority so orders, from the date of 
receipt by the State Steel Licensing Authority of first Intimation 
of such stocks, but which remain either (a) uncovered by permit* 
or (b) covered by issue of permits, but for which no financial 
arrangements have been made by the allottees within the period 
of validity of the permits issued. 

3. (a) Iron and Steel [other than the articles specified in items 1(a) 

and 2(a) above]— any quantity; 

(b) any stockholder other than a Registered Producer or a Controlled 
Stockholder; 

(c) from stocks held for a period exceeding 60 days from the date of 
receipt by the State Steel Licensing Authority of first intimation 
of such stocks, but which remain either (a) uncovered by permits 
or (b) covered by issue of permits, but for which no financial 
arrangements have been made by the allottees within the period 
of validity of the permits issued. 

The above authorisations shall be subject to the following general conditions: — 
(1) All acquisitions and disposals shall be made within the Union of India; 

(ii) Statutory selling prices, if any, shall not be exceeded; 

(iii) Every Stockholder other than a Controlled Stockholder or a Registered 

Producer shall submit, at the end of each calendar month, to the 
State Steel Licensing Authority concerned, a return of transactions 
under entries 2 and 3 above, together with the balance of stocks in 
hand, indicating the number and date of the letter of intimation 
referred to in the entries 2(c) and 3(c) above, so as to reach the 
State Steel Licensing Authority not later than the 10th of the 
succeeding month. 

C. R. Natesan, 
Iron and Steel Controller. 
[No. SC (A) -4 (253) /A,] 



65o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1956 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


S.R.O, 1111 /E8S.C0MM. /IR0N&STEEL-14 ( 2 ) &26 ( 2 ) . — The following Notifica- 
tion issued by the Iron and Steel Controller under sub-clause ( 2 ) of clause 14 and 
sub-clause ( 2 ) of clause 26 of the Iron and Steel (Control) Order, 1056 , is hereby 
published for general information: — 

“Notification 

In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub-clause ( 2 ) of Clause 14 and 
sub-clause ( 2 ) of Clause 26 of the Iron and Steel (Control) Order, 1956 , I hereby 
direct that every Controlled Source, Producer, Stockholder or other person hold- 
ing stocks of Iron and Steel or Iron and Steel Scrap shall issue a memorandum 
relating to every sale of Iron and Steel or Iron and Steel Scrap by such Con- 
trolled Source, Producer, Stockholder or other person holding stocks of Iron and 
Steel or Iron and Steel Scrap, showing the following details of the materials 
supplied and the price charged therefor, and maintain a duplicate copy of the 
memorandum as aforesaid: — 

(a) Name and address of the seller. 

(b) Name and address of the buyer. 

(c) Number and date of the Quota Certificate or Permit or Licence. 

(d) Specifications of the goods sold. 

(e) Weight of the goods sold. 

(f) Rate per ton of each item. 

(g) Total price charged. 

(h) Seller’s signature. 

(i) Sales Tax, loading and other incidental charges, octroi, etc. (To be 

shown separately). 

C. R. Nateban, 
Iron and Steel Controller." 
[No. SC (A) -4 ( 253 ) /B.] 

S.R.O. mz/ESS. COMM./IRON & STEEL- 2 (c). — In exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-clause (c) of Clause 2 of the Iron and Steel (Control) Order, 1956 and In supersession 
of all previous notifications on the subject, the Central Government hereby authorises the ofiicers 
mentioned in Column 2 of the Schedule annexed hereto to exercise the powers of the Controller 
under the Clauses of the said Order mentioned in Column 3 thereof within their respective juris- 
dictions — 


Schedule 


Designation of Officers 

Clauses under which they arc audio- 



rised 

1 

2 

3 


AnJhra , . . 1. Director of Controlled Commo- 4,5,10,11,12(2), 18,20,22,23, 24(b), 

dities and Director of Agricul- 24(c), 24(d) and 28 (for Iron « 
ture and Fisheries, Andhra. Steel and Scrap). 

Assam . . . 1. Director of Consumer Goods, 4,5,10,11,12(2), 18, 20, 22,23, 24(b), 

Government of Assam, Shillong 24(c) & 24(d). 

2. All Deputy Commissioners and 4,5,10 and 22. 

Sub-Divisional Officers in 
Assam. 


Andaman & 
Islands 


Nicobar 1. Deputy Commissioner, Anda- 4,5, 18, 20,23, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 
man and Nicobar Islands, Port 
Blair. 



Designation cf Officers 


Clauses under which they are 
authorised. 


Ajmer 


Bombay . 


Bhopal 


Bilaspur . 


Delhi 


Hyderabad 


. I. Additional Assistant Commis- 4,5,10,11,12(2), 18, 20, 22, 23, 

sioner and Officer Inchaige, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 

Food and Civil Supplies, Ajmer. 

. 1. Controller of Iron, Steel & Ce~ 4, 5, 10, 11,12(2), 18, 20, 22, 23, 24(b) 

ment, Government of Bombay, 24(c), 24(d) and 28 (For Iron & 
Bombay Steel and Scrap). 

2. Assistant Controller of Iron, 4,5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and | 24(d ) 
Steel & Cement, Government 

of Bombay, Bombay, 

3. Agricultural Iron& Steel Supply 

Officer, Government of Bombay, 4,5,10, n, ard 12(2). 

Bombay. 

4. All Collectors and MamJatdars 4 and 5. 

In the State of Bombay. 

5. Director of Industries Govern- rr, r2(2) and 28 (For Iron and 

ment of Bombay, Bombay. Steel only). 

. 1. Director of Industries, Govern- 4,5, 10, n, 12(2), 18, 20,22, 23, 

ment of Bihar, Patna. 24(b), 24(c) and 24fd). 

2. Director of Agriculture, Bihar 4,5,18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) & 24(d). 
Patna. 

3. Joint Director of Agriculture, 18,20, 24(b), 24(c) & 24(d). 

Bihar, Patna. 

4. All Distt. Agricultural Officers 4,5,18,20,241 b), 24(c) and 24(d). 

& Grow More Food Officers 

appointed by the Government of 
Dinar. 

5. Additional Distt. Magistrate 4 and 5, 
of Dhanbad and the Distt. Magi- 
strates of all other Districts of 

Bihar. 

6. All Deputy Directors of Agri- 4,5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 
culture, Bihar. 

7. Deputy Secretary to Govern- 4,5, 12(2), 18, 20, 24(b), 34(c) and 

tnent Supply & Price Control 24(d). 

Department , Bihar. 

. 1. Secretary and Commissioner 4,5,11,12(2), 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 

Food and Civil Supplies, 24(d), 

Bhopal. 

2. Secretary, Commerce & In- 4,5 and 12(2), 
dustties Department, Govern- 
ment of Bhopal, Bhopal. 

3. Development Commissioner, 4,5 and 12(3). 

Government of a Bhopal, Bhopal. 

. 1. Civil Supplies Officer, Biias- 4,5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d).) 

pur, Simla Hills, j 


. 1. Assistant Director, Civil 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 

Supplies (General) Delhi, 

2. The Director of Industries and 4, 5, 10, 11, 12(2), 18, 20, 24(b). 

Labour, Delhi. 24(c) & 24(d). 

3. Agricultural Officer, Delhi, 4 rr.d 5. 

State Delhi. 

4. Superintendent of Industries, 4, 5, 18, zo, 24(b), 24(c) erd 24(0). 
Delhi. 

1. Iron and Steel Controller, 4, 5, jo, n, 12(2), 18, 20 , 22, 23, 
Govt, of Hyderabad, Khairata- 24 (b), 24(c) & 24(d). 
bad. 



>2 . . GA . . A, iviA . 12, 1 L^-, ... 8 



Designation of Officers 

Clauses under which they are 
tt.ithorised 

I 

2 

3 

Himachal Pradesh 

1. Director of Civil Supplies, 
Himachal Pradesh, Simla. 

2. District Agricultural Officers, 
Government of Himachal Pra- 
desh, Simla. 

4, 5 and 23. 

28(b) & (c) (For Iron and Steel 
only). 


Kutch 


Madras 


Madhya Pradesh 


Mysore 


Aladhya Bharat 


■Orissa 


X. Provincial Iron & Steel Licensing 4, 5, 12(2), 18, 20, 23, 24(b), 24(c) 
Authority, Kutch. and 24(d). 


1. Additional Director of Indus- 
tries & Commerce, Govt, of 
Madras, Madras. 

2. Director of Agriculture, Govt, 
of Madras, Madras. 

3. Special Officer (Iron & Steel) 
Office of the Director of In- 
dustries & Commerce, Chepauk, 
Madras-5. 

4. Deputy Director of Agriculture 
(Engineering), Government of 
Madras, Madras. 

1. Steel Controller, Govt, of 
Madhya Pradesh, Nagpur. 

2. Chief Executive Officers of 

Janiapada Sabhas in Madhya 
Pradesh. , 

3. Deputy Commissioners in 
Madhya Pradesh. 

4. District Development Officers, 
Madhya Pradesh. 

5. Assistant Project Officers, 
Madhya Pradesh. 

X. Iron and Steel Controller, 
Government of Mysore, Bhad- 
ravati. 

1. Director of Food and Civil 
Supplies, Govt, of Madhya 
Bharat, 

2. Deputy Director of Food and 
Civil Supplies, Govt, of Madhya 
Bharat. 

3. Assistant Director of Food and 
Civil Supplies, Govt, of Madhya 
Bharat. 

4. Collectors, Dhar, Devras, Aland- 
saur, Shujapur, Ratiam, Guna 
and Nimar (Khargone) Dist- 
ricts of Madhya Bharat. 

1. Controller of Supplies, Govt, 
of Orissa, Cuttack. 

2. Director of Agriculture and 
Food Production, Govt, of 
Orissa, Cuttack. 

3. Deputy Secretary (Iron and 
Steel), Dcptt. of Supply and 
Transport, Govt, of Orissa, 
Cuttack. 

4. Director of Industries, Govt, 
of Orissa, Cuttack, 


4, 5, 10, 11, 12(2), 18, 20, 22, 23, 
24(b), 24(c), 24(d) & 28 

(For Iron & Steel and Scrap). 

4, 5, 10, 11, 12(2), 18, 20, 22 23, 
24(c), 24(d) & 24(d). 

4, 5, 18 & 20 . 


4 and j. 


4, 5, 10, 11, 12(2), 18, 20, 22, 23, 
24(b), 24(c), 24(d) & 28 (For 
Iron and Steel and Scrap). 

4, 5 18 , 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 
24 ( 4 ). 

4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 
24(d). 

4 and 5- 

4 and 5. 


4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 


4, 5, 10, 11, 12(2), 18, 20, 22 , 23, 
24(b), 24(c), 24(d) & 28 (For 
Iron and Steel Scrap). 

4, 5, 12(2), 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) 
and 24(d). 

4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 


4 and 5. 


4, 5, 10, 11, 12(2), 18, 20, 22, 23, 
24(b), 24(c), 24(d) & 28 (for 
iron and steel only). 

4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 


4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 


4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 



u. 3] j A, .. l . 12, . i 003 



Designation of Officers Clauses under which they ate 

authorised 

- 

2 3 


5. All District MagistratnreB in the 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 
Stale of Orissa. 

6. District Supplies Officers in 4 and 5. 
the State of Orissa. 

7. All Civil Supplies Officers in the 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 
the State of Orissa. 

8. All District Agricnlral Officers 4, 5 , 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 
in the State of Orissa. 

9. Agricultural Engineer to the 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 
Government of Orissa. 

to. All Sub-Divisional Officers 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 
and Taluq Officers in the State 
of Orissa. 

11. All Deputy and Sub-Deputy 4 and 5. 

Magistrates in the State of 

Orissa. 

12. Industrial Engineer to the 4 and 5. 

Government of Orissa, Cuttack. 

Punjab ... I. Director of Industries and De- 4, 5, 10, II, 12 (2), 18, 20, 22, 23 
puty Secretaries to the Govt, of 24 (b), 24(c), 24(d), and 28 (for 
Punjab, Civil Supplies Departm- iron & steel and scrap), 
ent, Simla. 

2. Deputy Director, Controlled 4, 5, 10, 11, 12(2), 18, 20, 22, 23 

Commodities, Govt, of Punjab, 24(b), 24(c), 24(d) and 28 

Simla. (for iron & steel & scrap). 

3. Agricultural Engineers (Im- 4 and 5. 
plements). Govt, of Punjab. 

Kamal. 

4. Deputy Director of Industries 4, 5, 10, II, and 12(2). 
(Rehabilitation), Government 

of Punjab, Simla. 

5. Deputy Iron and Fuel Control 4 and 5. 

Officer, Punjab, Simla. 

6. Estate Officer, Capital 4 and 5. 

Project, Chandigarh. 

7. District Industries Officers, 4,5,10, ir, 12(2), 18, 20, 23, 24(b) 

Government of Punjab 24(c), 24(d), and 28 (for iron ana 

steel ana scrap). 

PEPSU . . 1. Director of Industries, Govt, of 4, 5 , 10, 11, 12(2), 18, 20, 24(b), 

PEPSU, Patiala. 24(c), 24(d), and 28 (for iron ana 

steel ana scrap). 

2. Director of Agriculture, Govt. 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) and 24(d). 
of PEPSU, Patiala. 

3. Deputy Director of Industries 4 and 5. 

Government of PEPSU, Patiala. 

4. Assistant Director of Industries 4 and 5. 

Government of PEPSU, Patiala. 

5 . Inspector of Industries (In- 4 and 5. 
charge Conrtol), Government 

of PEPSU, Patiala. 

6. Inspector of Industries, Govt. 4 and 5. 
of PEPSU, Kapurthala. 

7. Inspector of Industries, Govt. 4 and 5. 
of PEPSU, Faridkot. 

8. Inspector of Industries, Govt. 4 and 5. 
of PEPSU, Malerkotla. 

9. Inspector of Industries, Govt. 4 and 5. 
of PEPSU, Sangrur. 

10. Inspector of Industries, Govt. 4 and 5. 
of PEPSU, Namaul. 

11. Inspector of Industries, Govt. 4 and 5. 
of PEPSU, Patiala. 



■ 12 , 


II— 


Designation of Officers. 


Clauses under which they are 
authorised 



North East Frontier i. Political Officers. io and 22. 

Agencyj Assam. 

Rajasthan . . 1. Director of Industries & Com- 4, 5, 18, 20 , 24,(b), 24(c), & 24(d). 

merce. Govt, of Rajasthan, Jaipur. 

2. Deputy Director of Industries 4,5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c), & 24(d). 

& Commerce, Govt, of Rajas- 
than, Jaipur. 

3. Assistant Director of Industries, 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c), & 24(d). 
& Commerce, Govt, of Rajas- 
than, Jaipur. 

4. Assistant Director of Industries 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(d), 24(c), & 24(d)* 
& Commerce, Govt of Rajas- 
than, Bikaner. 

3. Asistant Director of Industries 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c), & 24(d). 
8 c Commerce, Govt of Rajas- 
than, Jodhpur. 

6. Assistant Director of Industries 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) & 24(d). 
& Commerce, Govt of Rajas- 
than, Bharatpur. 

7. Assistant Director of Industries, 4, 5, 1 8, 20, 24(b), 24(c), & 24(d). 
& Commerce, Govt of Rajas- 
than, Udaipur. 

8. Director of Agriculture, Govt. 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) & 24(d). 
of Rajasthan, Jaipur. 

9. All Collectors of the Districts 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c), & 24(d). 
in Rajastan. 

Saurashtra . . 1. Director of Industry and Sup- 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c), & 24(d). 

ply, Govt, of Saurashtra, Rajkot. 

Travancore-Cochln . 1. Director of Agriculture, Govt. 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) & 24(d). 

of Travancore-Cochin, Trivan- 
drum- 

2. Director of Industries & Com- 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) & 24(d). 
merce, Govt of Travancore- 
Cochin, Trivandrum. 

Uttar Pradesh . . x. Provincial Iron & Steel Control- 4, 5, 10, 11, 12(2), 18, 20, 22, 23, 

ler, Uttar Pradesh, Kanpur. 24(b), 24(c), 24(d) and 28 (for 

Iron & Steel and scrap). 

2. Assistant Provincial Iron & Steel 4, J, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) & 24(d). 
Controller, Uttar, Pradesh Kan- 
pur. 

3. Deputy Provincial Iron and 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24, (c) & 24(d). 
Steel Controller Uttar Pra- 
desh, Kanpur. 

4. All District Magistrates in 4, 5, 18, 20, 24,(b),24(c), & 24(d)- 
Uttar Pradesh. 

Vindhya Pradesh . 1. Director, Food and Civil Sup- 

plies, Vindhya Pradesh, Rcwa. 4, 5, 18, 20, 24 (6), 24 (c) & 24 (d). 

2. Collectors of Vindhya Pradesh 4, 5, 18 and 20. 





k » r 


13 , 


. 3J 



Designation of Officers. 

Clauses under which they are 
authorised. 

I 

2 

3 

West Bengal 

1 Director of Consumer Goods, 
West Bengal, Calcutta 

2. Dy, Director of Consumer 
Goods, West Bengal, Calcutta 

3. All Assistant Directors of 

4, 5, IO, II, 12 (2), 18, 20, 22, 
23 i 24 (i), 24 (c) and 24 (d). 

12 (2), 18, 20, 24 (b), 24 (c) 

& 24(d). 


Others 


Consumer Goods and all Sub- 
Divisional Officers and Officers 
authonsed to work as such dur- 
ing the temporary absence of 
Sub-Divisional Officers, of the 
Govt, of West Bengal 

4. Secretary, Industrial Reha- 
bilitation Board, Calcutta 

5. Agricultural Engineer, Govt, 
of West Bengal, Calcutta 

6. Sub-Divisional Agricultural 
Officers, appointed by the Govt, 
of West Bengal 

7. Sub-Divisional Controllers 
of Food and Supplies appointed 
by the Govt, of West Bengal 

1. Controller of Stores, Eastern 
Rly., Calcutta 

2. Controller of Stores, North- 
Eastern Rly. Gorakhpur 

3. Controller of Stores, Northern 
Railway, Delhi 

4. Controller of Stores, Central 
Railway, Bombay 

3. Controller of Stores, Western 
Railway, Bombay 

6. Controller of Stores, Southern 
Railway, Madras 

7. Controller of Stores, South- 
Eastern Railway, Calcutta 

8. Dy. Controller of Stores, In- 
dian Railways, Locomotive 
Manufacturing Works, Calcutta 

9. Railway Liaison Officer, Mini- 
stry of Railways, New Delhi 

10. The Deputy Controller of 
Stores, Integral Coach Factory, 
Pcrambur, Madras 

11. Chairman, Tea Board, Calcutta 

12. Secretary, Tea Board, 
Calcutta 

13. Supply Officer, Tea Board, 
Calcutta 

14. Secretary, Indian Central Cot- 
ton Committee, Bombay 

15 Deputy Assistant Coal Com- 
missioner (Stores), Calcutta 

16. (Textile Commissioner, Bombay. 

17. Director (Production & De- 
velopment), Office of the Tex- 
tile Commissioner, Bombay 

18. Assistant Director in the Pro- 
duction and Development 
Branch, Office of the Textile 
Commissioner, Bombay 


4, 5, 18, 20, *4 ((6), 24 (e)and 
24 (d 

4 and 5, 

4 and 3. 

4 and 3. 

4, 5, 18 and 20. 

4 and 5. 

4 and 5. 

4 and 5 
4 and 5. 

4 and 5. 

4 Bnd 5. 

4 and 5. 

4 and 5. 

4 and 5. 

4 and 5. 

4 and 5. 

4 and 5 

4 add 5. 

4 and 5. 

4 and 5 
4 and 5. 

4 and 5, 

4 and 




GA 


A, MAu 12, . 


aht, H — Sec. 1 



Designation of Officers 

Clanses under which they are 
authorised 

I 

2 

3 


19. Director, Central Water and 
Power Commission, Simla 

20. Assistant Director, Central 
Water and Power Commission, 

4 and 5. 


Simla 

21. Development Officer (Chemi- 
cals-I), Development Wing, 
Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry 

22. Development Officer (Timber) 
(Chemicals II), Development 
Wing, Ministry of Commerce 
and Industry 

23. Development Officer (Chemi- 
cals-III), Development Wing, 
Ministry of Commerce ana 
Industry 

24. Assistant Development Offi- 
cer (Steel), Development Wing, 
Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry 

25. Director (Sugar), Ministry of 
Food and Agriculture, New Delhi 

26. Deputy Director of Supplies 
(Steel and Railway Cell), Direc- 
torate General of Supplies and 
Disposals, New Delhi 


4 and 5. 

4 and j. 

4 and 5. 

4 and 5. 

4 and 5. 
4 and 5. 

4 and 5. 


27. Deputy Iron and Steel Con- 
troller, Iron and Steel Control, 
Calcutta 

28. All Assistant Iron and Steel 
Controllers, Office of the Iron 
and Steel Controller, Calcutta . 

29. Assistant Iron and Steel Con- 
trollers (Grade I), Steel Import 
Division, Iron and Steel Con- 
trol, Calcutta 

30. Deputy Assistant Iron and 
Steel Controllers in the Steel 
Import Division of the Iron and 
Steel Control, Calcutta 

31. Deputy Assistant Iron and 
Steel Controller in-charge of 
Quota Section of the Iron and 
Steel Control, Calcutta . 

32. Price and Accounts Officer in 

the Price add Accpunts Division 
of the Iron and Steel Control, 
Calcutta • 

33. Deputy Price and Accounts 
Officer, in the Price and Ac- 
counts Division of the Iron and 
Steel Control, Calcutta . 

34. Deputy Assistant Iron and 
Steel Controller in the Price 
and Accounts Division of the 
Iron and Steel Control, Cal- 
cutta ..... 

35. Deputy Development Officer 
(Drugs) — Chemicals II, Deve- 
lopment Wing, Ministry of Com- 
merce and Industry. 


All clauses of the control order, 
4 and 5. 

10 and 22. 

10 and 22. 

4 and 5. 

15 

15 

15 

4 and 5. 


[No. S C. (A)-4 (453) C. ] 



Tab 6 d. 33 'THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, i960 667 


^R.O iti3.— SS 9 .COMM/IRON & STEEL-ij(i) and 71(a).— The following Notification 
issued by the Iron and Steel Controller under Snb-Calusc (r) of Clause 15 and Sub-Clause (1) of 
Clause 27 of the Iron atid Steel (Control) Order, 1955, is hereby published for general information : 

Notification 

In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Clause (1) of Clause 15 and Sub-Clause (i)(i) Clause 

27 ofthe Iron St Steel (Control Order, 1956 and with the approval of the Central Gavt. the Iron 
and Steel Controller is pleased to notify the following Schedule of maximum prices of iron St 
steel and iron & steel scrap, in supersession of all previous notifications on the subject: — 

Schedule I 

TINPLATES 


Size Sheetage 

1 2 

Weight ‘B‘ ham 

(in Lbs.) Gauge 

3 4 

Rate per 
box fio.r. 
Works 
Siding Tata- 
nagar 
(inRs.) 

5 





Rs. 

as. p. 


COKE UNASSORTED TINPLATE 




aS x 20 

. . . . . 28 

171 

20 

69 

7 0 

28 x 20 

50 

250 

22 

97 

6 0 

34 X 25 

25 

185 

22 

75 

8 0 

34x25 

2 5 

146 

24 

63 11 0 

28 x 20 

50 

200 

24 

83 10 0 

25 X 17 

5 ° 

146 

24 

60 

15 0 

28 X 20 

56 

196 

25 

86 

2 0 

34x25 

56 

255 

26 

113 

15 0 

28 X 20 

56 

168 

26 

74 

11 0 

28 X 20 

56 

154 

27 

69 10 0 

28 X 20 

56 

140 

28 

62 

3 0 

18-3/4x14. 

124 

no 

30 

51 

10 0 

20X10 

225 

156 

30 

73 

3 0 

20 X 14 

112 

108 

3 ° 

5 ° 

10 0 

28 X 20 

1 12 

216 

30 

IOI 

3 0 

28-l/2X?4 -1 / 2 

. . . . . I 12 

269 

30 

126 

0 0 

33 X 20 

56 

127 

30 

60 

2 0 

28X20 

1 12 

200 

30-6 

98 

4 0 

20 X 14 

1 12 

100 

30-6 

49 

3 0 

28 X 20 

1 12 

180 

31-6 

92 

IX 0 

28 X 20 

1 X 2 

160 

32-5 

86 

14 0 

28 X 20 

1 12 

140 

34 

84 

0 0 

20 X 14 

1 12 

70 

34 

42 

1 0 


ODD SIZES COKE UNASSORTED TINPLATE 



34 X 25 

25 

232 

20 

95 

I 0 

33 X 14 

50 

217 

21-3 

K 4 

5 0 

20 X 14 

100 

250 

22 

95 

3 0 

25 X 17 

50 

185 

22 

72 

2 0 

26 -1/2x13 - 1/4 

50 

152 

22 

J 9 

5 0 

28 x 20 

50 

217 

23 

84 12 0 

20 X 14 

. . . . - 100 

200 

24 

8l 

13 0 

35 X 25 

25 

150 

24 

65 

7 0 

29' I/2X2I. 

50 

212 

24 

88 

8 0 

20X14 

- . „ . I 12 

196 

25 

s 4 

1 0 

20 X 14 

. . . . , 112 

j68 

26 

73 

3 0 

25 X 17 

IT2 

255 

26 

III 0 0 

22 -3/4 X 16 

* . . . . 112 

224 

26 

97 

5 0 

13 • 1/2 X 10-3/4 

. . . * . 112 

80 

27 

35 

3 0 



12, 4.0 00 


- » 


I 





2 

3 

4 

5 










Rs. as. 

p- 

HXI I 





1 12 

85 

27 

37 11 

0 

16 . 3/8 X /I - 1/2 . 





1 12 

102 

27 

45 2 

0 

30 X 14 





1 12 

154 

27 

68 3 

0- 

28x11-1/4 





1 12 

171 

27 

75 10 

0 

31-1/2x23. 





56 

197 

27 

89 3 

0 

31 X 23 





556 

193-5 

27 

87 10 

0 

22 x 14 





1 12 

170 

27 

75 5 

0 

18 -3/4 x 14- 





124 

140 

28 

60 12 

0 

20 X 10 

• 



• 

157 

136 

28 

59 5 

0 

20 X 14 

♦ 




IZ 2 

140 

28 

60 12 

0 

26-3/4x18-3/4 . 

• 




64 

140 

28 

62 3 

0 

30 X 20 





52 

136 

28 

60 10 

0 

13 x 9 - , ■ 





282 

1 13 

30 

53 0 

0 

l8-j/8x 14 X/4 . 





124 

m 

30 

52 0 

0 

20 - I/ 4 X I 0 -I /4 . 





225 

162 

30 

75 15 

0 

24 - X 2 * 1 1/4 • 





112 

197 

30 

92 7 

0 

24-1/2x18-3/4 . 





1X2 

175 

30 

82 1 

0 

26-1/2x21. 





112 

213 

3 ° 

99 13 

0 

28x18-3/4. 





1 12 

199 

30 

93 7 

O' 

28x22-3/16 





1 12 

244 

30 

H 4 5 

0 

28-1/2x21-1/4 . 





112 

234 

30 

109 II 

0 

28-1/2x21-3/8 . 





1 12 

235 

30 

no 1 

O' 

28-3/4x17-1/4 • 





1 12 

iss 

30 

88 2 

0 

29x21-1/2. 





112 

240 

30 

112 I 

0 

29-1/4x21-1/4 . 





112 

240 

30 

112 7 

O' 

30 x 20 





1 12 

231 

30 

108 4 

O' 

30-13/16x21-3/16 





112 

275 

30 

128 7 

0* 

31x19-1/2. 





1 12 

234 

30 

109 II 

0 

31x18-1/2, 





1 12 

222 

30 

103 15 

0 

31x23 





U 2 

275 

30 

128 12 

0 

31-1/4x8-13/16 





1 12 

227 

30 

106 7 

0 

33-1/2x25. 





156 

160 

30 

76 12 

0 

14x7 





332 

no 

3 ° 

5 t 9 

0 

18-3/4x12. 





144 

1 10 

3 ° 

51 9 

0 

26-3/4x16-1/2 . 





1 X 2 

169 

30 

79 2 

0- 

26-3/4x18-3/4 . 





1 12 

193 

30 

90 8 

O' 

28-1/4x14-1/8 . 





1 12 

I-J 2 

30 

71 2 

0 

30x21 





112 

242 

30 

113 4 

0- 

3 I- 3 /I 4 X *2i - 1/4 





56 

130 

3 ° 

62 3 

0 

32-3/8x22. 





1 12 

275 

30 

129 I 

0' 

28x24-1/2 





1 12 

262 

3 ° 

122 13 

O’ 

12 • 1/2 x 9 • 





282 

no 

30 

51 9 

0- 

18-3/4x14- 





172 

153 

30 

71 14 

0 

25-7/16x22-1/8 





1 12 

201 

30-6 

98 n 

0 

25 -7/16 x 24-5/16 





112 

220 

30-6 

108 I 

0 

27x14-3/4. 





1 12 

142 

30-6 

69 II 

0 

27-3/4x23-7/16 





1 12 

232 

30-6 

1 14 I 

0 

27-5/8x24-1/2 , 





1 12 

242 

30-6 

118 13 

0 

28x27-1/16 





112 

270 

30-6 

132 1 5 

0 

28-1/2x21-1/2 . 





112 

219 

30-6 

107 7 

0 

28-7/8x24. 





112 

248 

30-6 

121 II 

0 

28-7/8x24-1/2 . 





112 

248 

30-6 

121 II 

0 

29x21-1/2. 





1 12 

223 

30-6 

109 10 

0- 

29-1/4x24-11/16 





1 12 

258 

30-6 

126 13 

0 

29-5/8x17-3/4 • 





112 

188 

30-6 

92 7 

0 

30x18-3/4- 





112 

201 

30-6 

98 11 

0 

30-1/2x24*1/2 . 





1 12 

267 

30-6 

13 r 4 

0 

32-1/2x21. 





112 

244 

30-6 

120 0 

0 

30x20 





1 12 

214 

30-6 

105 3 

0 

31x19-1/2. 





112 

216 

30-6 

106 0 

0 

31x21 





1 12 

232 

30-6 

114 I 

0 

31x22 





IT 2 

243 

30-6 

119 7 

0 

28x21 





112 

202 

31 

101 8 

0 

28 3/8X-2I-I/4 . 





1 12 

207 

31 

104 2 

0 

30x21-5/8 





1 12 

219 

31 

no 1 

0 





Past II— Sic. 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1950 669 



1 




2 

3 

4 

5 










Rb. as. p. 

18-3/4x14 





124 

93 

31-6 

47 13 

O 

20x14 





XI2 

90 

31-6 

46 5 

0 

25x17-7/8 





1 12 

144 

31-6 

74 2 

0 

25 7/8x18-7/8 . 





1 12 

157 

31-6 

80 14 

0 

27 x 21-S/8 





1 12 

188 

31-6 

96 15 

0 

27-1/4x19-1/4 • 

* 




1 12 

169 

31-6 

86 15 

0 

27-5/16x22-1/8 . 





112 

194 

31-6 

99 14 

0 

28x18-3/4. 





124 

186 

31-6 

95 12 

0 

28x24-5/16 





1 12 

219 

31-6 

1 12 12 

0 

28-1/2x18-1/2 . 





1 12 

167 

31-6 

86 2 

0 

28-1/2x20-5/8 . 





J 12 

189 

316 

97 4 

0 

28-3/4x18-1/2 . 





112 

171 

3 i '6 

88 2 

0 

28-7/8 X 25-3/4 ■ 





1 12 

240 

31-6 

123 12 

0 

29x22-1/2. 





Z 12 

210 

31-6 

10*8 2 

0 

29-1/4x24-11/16 





112 

232 

31 ‘6 

1 19 8 

0 

29-1/2x20-1/4 . 





112 

192 

31-6 

98 12 

0 

30x21 





1 12 

203 

31-6 

104 7 

0 

30-1/4x25-1/4 . 





112 

246 

3 1 '6 

126 13 

0 

30-3/4x23-7/16 . 





1 12 

232 

31-6 

119 8 

0 

31x21 





112 

209 

3i'6 

107 8 

0 

21 X 22 





1 12 

219 

31-6 

1 12 12 

0 

31 X 23 





112 

228 

31-6 

117 5 

0 

30 X 20 





112 

193 

31-6 

99 7 

0 

28-3/8 X 17-3/8 • 





112 

158 

31 '<5 

81 5 

0 

27-5/16x18-5/8 . 





1 12 

146 

32-5 

79 6 

0 

20x14 





112 

80 

32-5 

43 7 

0 

27-5/16x28-5/8 . 





X 12 

184 

32-5 

99 15 

0 

28-3/4 X 20-3/4 ■ 





T 12 

170 

3 2 '5 

92 7 

0 

29x16-5/8 





112 

139 

32-5 

75 8 

0 

29x18-5/8 





112 

154 

32-5 

83 12 

0 

29 X 23-J/8 





112 

196 

32-5 

106 10 

0 

29-7/S x 24-7/8 - 





112 

212 

32-5 

115 5 

0 

22-1/4x18-1/2 . 





1 12 

103 

34 

61 13 

0 

25 - 1 / 4 X 22 





112 

139 

34 

83 7 

0 

25-1/2x18-1/2 . 





1 12 

118 

34 

70 14 

0 

25-1/2x21 





1 12 

134 

34 

80 8 

0 

27-3/4x18-1/2 . 





1 12 

12S 

34 

76 12 

0 

28-3/8 x 21-3/16 





112 

150 

34 

89 15 

0 




BEST COKE TINPLATE 




28 X 20 



1 


50 

250 

22 

100 15 

0 

33 X 22 





28 

176 

32 

73 5 

0 

28 x 20 





5 ° 

200 

24 

86 14 

0 

22 X 14 





1 12 

170 

27 

79 7 

0 

31x23 





56 

193 ’5 

2 l 

92 7 

0 

28 X 20 





56 

140 

28 

66 0 

0 

18-3/4x14. 





172 

153 

30 

77 ° 

0 

20X10 





225 

156 

30 

78 6 

0 

28x20 





112 

216 

30 

108 11 

0 

26-7/16x22-1/8 , 





112 

201 

30-6 

106 7 

0 

27-3/4x23-7/16 . 





112 

232 

30-6 

122 13 

0 

28x21 





112 

202 

31 

109 10 

0 

30x27-13/16 




8 

112 

269 

3 i'S 

150 5 

0 

28-1/2x21-3/4 ■ 





1 12 

1 99 

3 1 ’6 

no 15 

0 

28-3/8x23-5/16 . 





1 12 

213 

31-6 

118 12 

0 

28 X 20 





112 

100 

32-5 

94 7 

0 

28 x 20 





112 

140 

34 

91 8 

0 




CHARCOAL No. I TINPLATE 




28 X 20 





56 

196 

23 

ioi 3 

0 

28 - 5 / 8 X 18 - 3/4 ■ 



. 


56 

184 

25 

95 4 

0 

28 - 1 / 4 X 20 - 3/4 . 





56 

201 

25 

104 2 

0 

28 X 20 




- 

50 

150 

22 

III I 

Q 

28 X 20 




♦ 

5 ° 

200 

24 

97 2 

0 

28 X 20 



• 

* 

1 12 

216 

30 

131 9 

0 



670 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1953 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


i 2 3 4 5 


Rs. as. p. 


CHARCOAL No. II TJNILA1E 


31-1/2x23 




56 

197 

27 

102 

4 

0 

30x20 




52 

136 

28 

70 

13 

0 

18-5/8x14-1/4 . 




125 

III 

30 

62 

9 

0 

25-7/16 X22-r/8 . 




112 

201 

30-6 

119 

0 

0 

27 - 3 / 4 X 23 - 7/16 . 




112 

232 

30-6 

137 

8 

0 

25-7/16 X 24- 5/16. 




1 12 

220 

30-6 

130 

6 

0 

30-1/4x28-3/8 . 




56 

153 

30-6 

02 

5 

0 

28-7/8x25-3/4 . 




112 

240 

316 

150 

8 

0 

29x22-1/2 




112 

210 

31 '6 

131 

11 

0 

30 X 20 


* 

» 

112 

193 

31-6 

121 

2 

0 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 
Part I — General 

The prices shown In the above Schedule and the other provisions relevant thereto as set forth 
below, shall come into force with effect from the date on which they are published In the Gazette 
of India and notwithstanding the rates at which an order has been booked and /or materials paid for, 
shall apply to all deliveries effected on or eftei that date. In all cases where delivery is effected by 
rail, the date of the Railway receipt shall be deemed to be the date of delivery. 

Part II — Special Conditions for sale by the Tinplate Co. or India Ltd. Calcutta 
A. To Customers other than Controlled Stockholders. 

(a) In respect of sales by Messrs. Tinplate Co, of India Ltd., Calcutta, to customer^ other than 
the Controlled Stockholders, the rate notified in the Schedule of Prices shall apply l'.o.r. Siding 
Tatanagar. 

(6) Octroi and Stiles or other taxes incurred in the process of delivety of materials frem Seller's 
yard or siding to Customers will be borne by the latter. 

B. To Controlled Stockholders 

(a) The prices notified in this Schedule shall apply f.o.r,, Works’ Siding, Tatanagar. In 
order to arrive at the prices for materials ordeied for delivery at Controlled Stockholders’ Siding or 
Yard situated at Ambala Cantt., Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi, Kanpur and MadiBB place extra at the 
following rates shall be added to these prices : 


Place extra 
per ton 
Tinplates. 


Ambala Cantt. 

Bombay 

Calcutta 


Rs. as. p. 
86 14 o 
95 o o 
21 o o 


Delhij 

Kanpur 

Madras 


79 7 o 

57 2 o 

»9 4 o 


(, b ) Octroi and Sales or other taxes incurred during the transit of the materials into the Stock 
yard shall be borne by the Controlled Stockholders in the first instance. 

Part III— Sales by Controlled Stockholders 

(а) Sales by Controlled Stockholders shall be effected at the rates calculated as notifed in Part 
IIB above plus Stockists' remuneration of Rs. 40 /- per ton. These prices are f.o.r. Stockholder's 
Siding or ex-yard against cash payment and are exclusive of delivery charges. 

(б) The question of credit facilities is a matter for negotiation between the customer and the 
Stockholder. 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1956 


671 


(c) Delivery charges are not admissible if delivery is made ex-yard or f.o.r. Siding or into 
Workshop adjoining Sotcldsts’ Stock yard. Wbeic dcliveiy is undertaken by Controlled Stock- 
holders at the request of the buyer, delivery chaiges shall not, except by special arrangement be- 
tween the stockholder and buyer exceed the following rates : — 


Rate per ton 
Rs. as. p. 


Bombay 

Calcutta 

Delhi 

Kanpur 

Madras 

Ambala Cantt. 


10 0 0 
10 0 o 
512 o 
800 
680 
500 


(d) Octroi and Sales or other taxes levied on Steel entering tire Controlled Stock holders’ 
Yard by the Government or Local Authority of the Province or Town where the Stockyard Is 
situated and similar taxes Incurred in the process of delivery of materials from Seller’s yard or 
siding to the customer shall be borne by the latter. 


Part IV — Sales by Persons Other than the Tinplate Co. of India Ltd. and Conikolud 

Stockholders 

The rates and other charges fixed for sales by Controlled Stockholders In Part III above shall 
be applicable to sales by persons other than the Tinplate Co. of India and Controlled Stockholders 
unless otherwise directed by the Iron and Steel Contioller. 


Schedule II 

WIRE AND WIRE PRODUCTS 
(. Prices in rupees per ten ) 


Maximum base prices per ton F.O.R, Calcutta, 
Bombay, Madras, Tatanagar and Burnpoic. 


Materials 

Col. I 

Col. II 

Col. Ill 


For sales by 

For sales by 

For sales by 


Registered 

Controlled 

all persons othe 


Producers 

Stockholders 

than Registered 
Producers and 
Controlled 
Stockholders 




Un- 

tested 

Tested 

Un- 

tested 

Tested 

Un- 

tested 

Tested 

I. 

Hard Bright Wire 2 to 3 S.W.G. 

678 

725 

713 

760 

738 

785 

2a 

Annealed Wire 2 to 3 S.W.G. 

719 

729 

754 

764 

779 

789 

3- 

Galvanised Wire 2 to 3 S.W.G. 

792 

836 

S27 

871 

852 

896 

4- 

Telegraph Wire 2 to 3 S.W.G. 


896 


931 


936 

3- 

Barbed Wire 12G Strand with 14G 
Barb ..... 

918 


953 


1,003 


6. 

Wire Nails 2 to 3 S.W.G . 

801 


841 


941 

. * 

7- 

Spring Steel Wire (-45% to .53% 
Carbon Content) 


r. 74 f 


1,815 


2,265 

8. 

Signal Wiie Galvanised 48 to 54 
tons T. S. 


2,031 


2,101 


2,551 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1956 


[Part II— Sec. » 


€72 


Schedule op Extras 
'L.uia in Rupees per ton ) 
GAUGES 



4-6 

7-9 

10-12 

13-14 

i5 

16 17-18 

19-20 21-22 

H. B. Wire 2 to 3 S.W.G. . 

15 

40 

45 

45 

45 

45 47-5 

50 50 

Annealed Wire 2 to 3 S.W.G. 

15 

40 

45 

45 

45 

45 47-5 

50 50 

Galvd. Wire 2 to 3 S.W.G. 

15 

40 

45 

55 

65 

65 .. 


Telegraph Wire 2 to 3 S.W.G. 

15 

so 

65 

65 

65 


. . 

Wire Nails 2 to 3 S.W.G. . 

15 

45 

60 

75 

105 

. . 

. . 


Spring Steel Wire 


(1) *55% to -65% Cat bon Content 

(2) '65% to '75% Carbon Content 

(3) '80% and upwaids Carbon Content 

(4) for Bright Copper Coaling 


Rs. 

140 

280 

840 

280 


Signal Wire 


fl) 60 to 70 tons Tensile Strength 

(2) 70 to 80 tons Tensile Strength 

(3) 80 to 90 tons Tensile Strength 


140 

280 

840 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 
Part I— General 

The prices shown in the above Schedule and the other provisions relevant thereto as set forth 
below, shall come into force with effect from the date on which they arc published in the Gazette 
of India and notwithstanding the rates at which an order has been booked and or materials paid for, 
shall apply to all deliveries effected on or after that date. In all cases where delivery is effected by 
rail, the date of the Railway Receipt shall be deemed to be the date of delivery. 

2. Prices for Tested materials apply only where a copy of TcBt Certificate recognised by the 
Government of India is supplied with the materials. 

3. Tested materials must be within the tolerance specified ; untested materials must be within 
the usual commercial tolerance. 

4. Prices for wire include coiling ; prices for nails include pack ing in boxes or Gunny bags. 

Part II — Special Conditions for Sales bt the Indian Steel and Wire Products Ltd., 

Indranagar 

A. To customers other than Controlled Stockholders. 

(1) Sales in wagon loads by the Indian Steel and Wire Products Ltd., shall be effected at f.o.r 
destination rate. 

(2) In order to arrive at the chargeable rate for full wagon load for destinations other than 
Bombay, Clacutta, Madras, Tatanagar and Burnporc the Place Extras as given in the Freight 
(Place Extras) List at Appendix I, shall be added to the Port Base prices. For any place not in- 
cluded in that list, the Place Extra will be determined with reference to the actual Railway freight 
from the nearest of the above 5 Ports except that for places which are not within 250 miles of the 
‘Ports’ of Tatanagar or Burnporc, the Place Extras will be determined with reference to the three 
ports of Calcutta, Bombay and Madras, In any dispute regarding the place extra, the decision of 
the Iron and Steel Controller shall be final. 

(3) Where wagons are not fully loaded, the customer shall pay the difference between the actual 
freight per ton and the amount of freight per ton which w'ould have been incurred if the wagon 
had been fuHy loaded. 

(4) For deliveries by Rail in ‘smalls’ by the Indian Steel and Wire Products Ltd., sales shall be 
made at f.o.r. Tatanagar basis without any Place Extra, actual Railway freight from Tatanagar to 
destination shall be payable by the purchaser. 

(5) If tire materials, sold f.o.r. destination are at the customer’s request despatched by any 
route other than the cheapest, the difference in freight shall be borne by the customer. 



Ti II— ,.3] Gi A, MA L 12, , _ 673 

(6) Octroi, Sales or other taxes incurred during the process of delivery of materials from the 
Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd.’s Works or siding to customers shall be borne by the latter. 

B. To Controlled Stockholders. 

(1) All sales to Controlled Stockholders will be made on f.o.r. destination basis by adding 

appropriate Place Extras wherever necessary to Port prices [as mentioned in clause 
No. (2) Part II A above] and will apply to deliveries at the Controlled Stockholders’ 
Siding, if any or to their nearest railway station. 

(2) Octroi and Sales and other taxes incurred during the transit of the materials into the stock - 

yard shall be paid by the Controlled Stockholders. 

Past III — Special Conditions for sales by Controlled Stockholders 

(1) Sales by controlled Stockholders shall be effected at the rates shown in Col. II of the 

Schedule of Prices plus the place extra as given in the Freight (Place Extras) List at Appen- 
dix I for the place at which the Stockyard is located. 

(2) The question of credit facilities is a matter for negotiation between the customer and the 

stockholders.. 

(3) Delivery charges arc not admissible if delivery is made ex yard or f.o.r. siding or into work- 

shops adjoining Stockholders’ Yard. Where delivery is undertaken by Controlled Stock- 
holders at the request of the buyer, delivery charges except by special arrangement between 
the Sotckholders and Buyer, should not exceed the following rates. 

Rate per ton Rate per ton 

Rs. A. P. Rs. a. p. 

Ambala . . . . 500 Kanpur . . , , 800 

Bombay . . , . 10 0 o Madras . . . . 680 

Clacutta . . . . 10 o 0 Nagpur . . . . 500 

Delhi (Old & New) . . 5 12 o Cuttack . . . . 700 

(4) Octroi and Sales or other taxes levied on steel entering the Controlled Stockholders’ Yard 
by the Government or Local Authority of the Province or Town where the stockyard 
is situated and similar taxes incurred in the process of delivery of materials from Seller’s 
Yard or Siding to the Customer shall be borne by the latter. 

Part IV.— Special Conditions for sales by all persons other than the Indian Steel and 
Wire Products Ltd., and Controlled Stockholders. 

Persons other than the Indian Steel and Wire Products and Controlled Stockholders are 
entitled to charge the maximum prices given in Column III of the Schedule of prices which shall 
apply ex site, plus the actual freight paid by them inclusive of any freight or place extra charged by 
the Supplier from whom they may have received the materials. Octroi, Sales and other taxes 
levied on steel entering the Seller’s Yard by the Government or the Local Authority of the Pro- 
vince or Town where the stockyard is situated and similar taxes incurred in the process of delivery 
of materials from Seller’s Yard or Siding to Customer shall be borne by the latter. 




I. 

Standard Foundry 

. I. 

2 . 

Do. 

. 2. 

3 - 

Do. ... 

• 3 - 

4 - 

Do. ... 

■ 4 - 

5 - 

Special ..... 

■ 4 - 

6. 

Special Basic .... 


7 - 

Standard Basic .... 


8 . 

Low Manganese 

I. 

9 * 

Do 

. 2 . 

10 . 

Do 

- 3 - 

II. 

Do 

• 4 - 

12 . 

Special ..... 

• 4 - 

13 - 

Low Manganese basic special 


r 4 > 

Low' Manganese basic 



Schedule III 


PIG IRON 

Sttmdard Grades. 

(High Manganese) 


Analysis 


Maximum Base selling Prices 
per ton at Calcutta, Bombay, 
Madras, Tatanagar & Bum pore 

Silicon 

Manganese 

Phosphorus 

Sulphur 

Col. I 

Col. II 

per cent. 

per cent. 

per cent. 

per cent. 



2 -75—3 -25 

1 CO 1 * 50 

Under 0-40 

Under 0-035 

Rs. 163 

Rs. 178 

2-25 — 2-75 

3J 

33 

Under 0-050 

Rs. 159 

Rs. 174 

1-75— 2 -25 

33 

33 

33 

Rs. 155 

Rs. 170 

i- 5 o—i -75 

33 

33 

33 

Rs. 153 

Rs. 16S 

1-25—1-50 

33 

Under 0-35 

33 

Rs. 151 

Rs. 166 

I -00 1-25 

33 

33 

33 

Rs. 149 

Rs. 164 

l-oo & "nder 

33 

33 

33 

Rs. 147 

Rs. 162 

(how Manganese Grades). 




2-75—3-25 

0*50 1 *CO 

Under 0-40 

Under 0-035 

Rs. i6t 

Rs. 176 

2-25—2-75 

33 

Under 0-40 

Under 0-050 

Rs. 157 

Rs. 172 

1-75—2-25 

33 

Under 0-40 

Under 0-050 

Rs. 153 

Rs. 16S 

i" 5 ° — 1 '75 

33 

Under 0-40 

Under 0-050 

Rs. 151 

Rs. 166 

1 -25 — 1 -50 

>3 

Under 0-35 

Under 0-050 

Rs. 149 

Rs. 164 

1-00 — 1-25 

33 

Under 0-35 

Under 0-050 

Rs. 147 

Rs. 162 

1 -00 & 

33 

Under 0-35 

Under 0-050 

Rs. 145 

Rs. 160 


wider 


-p. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1950 [Part ll— S ec. 



The above prices are subject to the following further quality extras/Penalties. 


Extras and Penalties. 



Variation from Standard Grades 

Extras / 
Penalties 

Base Price 
items to which 
applicable 

Variation from Standard 
Grades 

Extras/ 

Penalties 

Base Price 
items to wliich 
applicable 



Extras per 

ton 


Penalty per 
ton 


A, (i) 

High Silicon for each increase of 0-50% above 
3 - 25 % 

Rs. 4 

Item 1 & 8 

(3) Manganese not below O'5o°o, Sul- 
phur 0-066% — o-o8o° 0 . 

Rs. 25 

Item 1 — 14 

(2) 

B. 0) 

Manganese for each 0-50% increase above 

1 - 50 % 

Off Grade Pig Iron 

Standard Sulphur Manganese below 0-50% 

Rs. 2 

Penally per 
Rs. 12 

Item 1 — 7 
ton 

Item 8 — 14 

(4) Manganese not below 0-50%, 
Sulphur 0 ■ 081 % and over 

(5) Manganese below 0 - 50 °. 0J Sulphur 

Rs, 30 

Rs. 19 

Item 1 — 14 

Ttpm 9 t 4 







(2) 

Manganese not below 0-50%, Sulphur 0-50% 
0 'o 65 % ...... 

Rs. 14 

Item 1 — 14 

(6) Manganes e below 0- 50% , Sulphur 
o-o66“o — o-o8o° 0 . 

Rs. 27 

Item S — 14 





(7) Manganese below o- 5O°/ 0 , Sulphur 
o-o8i% and over 

Rs. 32 

Item 8 — 14 


Part II— Sec, 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1956 



676 


THE -GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1950 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 


Part I — General 

1. In respect of sales by Registered Producers and by all persons other than 
Registered Producers the prices in Columns I and II of the above schedule and 
the other provisions of this Notification relevant thereto, shall come into force with 
effect from the date on which they are notified in the Oaeette of India and notwithstanding 
the rartes at which orders have been booked, shall apply to all deliveries effected on and after this 
date. In cases of deliveries effected by rail, the date of Railway Receipt shall be deemed to be the 
date of delivery, and for deliveries by road the date of delivery is the date on which the Pig Iron 
leaves the Works, Stock Yard or Godown, 

2. To arrive at the prices for places other than Calcutta, Bombay, Madras, Tatanagar and 
Bumpore place extras given in Appendix II arc to be added. For any place not included in Appen- 
dix II, the place Extra will be determined with reference to the actual Railway freight of Pig Iron 
in wagon load from the nearest of the above 5 ports except that for places which are not within 250 
miles of the ports of Tatanagar or Burnpore the place extra will be determined with reference to the 
three ports of Calcutta, Bombay and Madras. In any dispute regarding the place Extra, the decision 
of the Iron and Steel Controller shall be final. 

3. If materials sold f.o.r. destination are despatched at Customer’s request by any route other 
than the cheapest, the difference in freight will be borne by the customers. 

4. The Base prices adjusted for place extras are subject to the further quality extras and 
differentials as shown in the Schedule. 


Part II. — Special Conditions for sales by Registered Producers 

1. For deliveries by rail in ‘smalls’ by Producers the sale will be made f.o.r. despatching 

station and in “full wagon loads” f.o.r. destination station, 

2. Octroi and Sales or other taxes incurred in the process of delivering materials to 

customers will be borne by the latter. 


Part III. — Special Conditions for sales by Controlled 
Stockholders 

All sales by Controlled Stockholders arc ex-yard or f.o.r. Siding. No extra charge is ad- 
missible when delivery is made ex-yard or f.o.r. Siding or into Workshops adjoining Stockholders’ 
yard. Where delivery is undertaken by Controlled Stockholders at the request of the buyer, 
delivery charges shall not, except by special arrangement between the Stockholder and buyer, 
exceed the following rates : — 


Rs. A. P. Per ton 

Calcutta .......... 10 o o 

Bombay . . . - . . . . .. . 10 o o ,, 

Delhi (Old & New) 5 12 o „ 

Kanpur 800 

Madras 680 

Vizianagranr . . . . . . . . , 300 ,, 

Jullundur 4 0 0 „ 


Part IV,— Special Conditions for sales by ai.l persons other than Registered Producers 

Octroi and sales or other taxes levied on Pig Iron entering the Seller’s yard by the Government 
or the local authority of the State or Town where the stockyard 1 b situated and similar taxes incurred 
in the process of delivery of materials from Seller’s yard or siding to the customers shall be borne 



Part II— tSec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1056 


677 


by the latter. Any sales tax paid by the seller 10 a Registered Producer shall also be borne by the 
customer : — 


Schedule IV 

OTHER CATEGORIES OF IRON AND STEEL 


(Price in rupees per ton) 


Maximum Base Prices at Calcutta, Bombay, Madras , 
Tatanagar, and Burnpore 


trice Materials Col. I Col. II Col. Ill 


No. For sales by For sales by For sales by all 

Registered Controlled persons other 

Producers Stock-holders than Registered 

Producers and 
Controlled 
Stock-holders 




Un- 

tested 

Tested 

Un- 

tested 

Tested 

Un- 

tested 

Tested 

I 

Bars & Rods (Rounds & Squares 505 

550 

535 

585 

55 ° 

600 

2 

below 3" and Flats upto and 
including 5' wide). 

Bars other sizes (Rounds and 

495 

540 

525 

575 

540 

590 

3 

Squares 3" and above and 
Flats over 5" wide). 

Structural, Bearing Plates & 

5 i 5 

560 

545 

595 

560 

610 

4 

Crossing Sleeper Bars. 

Plates, 3/8" and up . 

590 

638 

620 

673 

635 

688 

5 

Chequered Plates 1/4" and up . 

605 

648 

635 

683 

650 

698 

6 

Boiler Plates, 3/8" and up 

* . 

648 


683 


698 

7 

Black sheets gauge 10 to 14 

535 

580 

570 

615 

585 

630 

8 

Galvanised Corrugated Sheets 
gauge 24 in lengths 6/10 ft. 

(a) Heavy Rails above 30 lbs. ■ 

735 

735 

770 

770 

785 

785 

9 


535 


565 


580 


lb) Heavy Rails Second Class . 

5 i° 


540 


555 

695 

10 

Fish Plates for Heavy Rails 

592 

645 

622 

680 

637 

11 

Light Rails 30 lbs, & below 

555 

595 

580 

625 

595 

640 

12 

Fish Plates for Light Rails 

665 

718 

695 

753 

710 

768 

13 

Tool Steel Bars (TSC-2/2A) 

, , 

620 

v , 

655 


670 

14 

Bullet Proof Plates Specn. 

* * 

810 


840 

■ . 

860 

15 

IT/7TC. 

Shell Steel Blooms 8" & 10" 


550 

, t 

585 


600 

16 

Squares. 

Shell Steel Bars 5 ’S" to 6" dia. 


560 

# § 

595 

, , 

610 

17 

and Gothic Sec. 

( a ) Booms and Slabs 

365 

385 

395 

420 

410 

435 

(6) Billets .... 

385 

405 

415 

440 

430 

4 J 5 

18 

Box Strapping : 

(a) 3/4' x 24 BG. . 

1,120 


1,155 


■M 75 



(b) 1I2" x 24/26 BG. 

1,170 


1,205 


1,225 


19 

Baling Hoops in coils over 100 
in length : 

(a) 3/4" X 19/20 BG . 

ft. 

800 


835 


855 



(b) l"Xi/i6" 

680 

• • 

715 


735 



678 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1956 [Part II— Sec. 3 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 
Part I. — General 

The prices shown in the above Schedule and the other provisions relevant thereto as set 
forth below, shall come into force with effect from the date on which they are published in the 
Gazette of India and notwithstanding the rates at which an order has been booked and/or the 
materials paid lor, shall apply to all deliveries effected on or after that date. In all cases where 
delivery is effected by rail, the date of the Railway Receipt shall be deemed to be the date of 
delivery. 


2. To arrive at the base prices for places other than Calcutta, Bombay, Madras, Tatanagar 
and Burnpore the Place extras given in the Freight (Place extra) List at Appendix I, are to be 
taken into account in the manner indicated in the ‘Special Conditions’ below : 

For any place not included in that List, the Place Extra will be determined with reference 
to the actual railway freight from the nearest of the Hbove five port9 except that for places which 
are not within 250 miles of the ‘Ports’ of Tatanagar or Burnpore, the Place Extras will be determined 
with reference to the three ports of Calcutta, Bombay and Madras. In any dispute regarding 
the Place Extras, the decision of the Iron and Steel Controller shall be final. 

3. The base prices adjusted for place extras are for standard lengths and sizes and arc sub- 
lect to the extras and differentials shown in the Extras List at Appendix III. 

4. Prices for tested materials apply only where a copy of Test Certificate recognised by the 
Government of India is supplied with the materials. 

Tested materials must be within the tolerance specified ; untested materials must be within 
the usual commercial tolerance. 

J. The chargeable weight in cases of Bars (1/2" and over), Structurals, Plates and Rails i s 
Sectional weight and in cases of Rods (below 1/2"), Semis, and Sheets is Actual weight. In th® 
case of materials sold on sectional weight to a rested specification which allows only a plus tolerance 
(e.g., Boiler Plates) the chargeable weight will be the theoretical weight plus half the tolerance. 

5(a), The weight tolerance admissible for untested materials is plus/minus 4% and for 
tested materials plus'minus 2 1/2%. In case the Railway Receipt weight (actual weight 
of such materials as are chargeable on the basis of sectional weight is within the above prescribed 
weight tolerances (except in case of those tested materials which allow only a plus tolerance e.g. s 
Boiler plates) the sectional weight should be accepted as correct. 

Part II. — Special Conditions for Sales by Registered Producers, 

1. Where, in accordance with the conditions of sale, sales are made f.o.r. destination by a 
Registered Producer, the rates shown in Column I above adjusted by adding the place extra for 
the destination apply to all such deliveries in wagon loads, irrespective of whether the materials 
are sent under M. C, Note or R. M.C. rate. Where wagons are not fully loaded the customers 
shall pay the difference between the actual freight per ton and the amount of freight per ton v hich 
would have been incurred if the wag on had been fully loaded. Where, in accordance with the 
conditions of sale, sales are made by a Registered Producer ex-works or f.o.r. Seller’s Siding, the 
rates in Column I above adjusted by adding the P/ace Extra for the place in which the works arc 
situated, shall apply to such sales. Sales in wagon loads by the Main Producers will normally 
be effected f.o.r. Destination and sales by Registered Producers other than Main Producers will 
normally be effected e.v-works or f.o.r. Seller’s Siding, A list of Registered Producers is given 
below. 

2. For deliveries by rail in 'smalls’ by the Main Producers the sale should be made f.o.r. 
Despatching Station and the base rate shall be adjusted by adding the Place Extra for the Des- 
patching Station. In such cases the actual freight must be borne by the buyer. 

3. If materials sold f.o.r. Destination are at the Customer’s request despatched by a route 
other than the cheapest, the difference in freight will be borne by the customer. 

4- Octroi, Sales and other taxes incurred in the process of delivery of materials from Seller’s 
yard or Siding to customer will be borne by the latter. 

5. All sales to Controlled Stockholders by all Registered Producers including the Main 
Producers will be made at f.o.r. destination prices and will apply to deliveries at the Stockholders’ 
siding, if any, or to his nearest Railway Station. 

6. In respect of supplies to consignees in the Dominion of Pakistan on f.o.b. Calcutta basis, 
extra charges (exclusive of any duty or tax payable under any law for the time being in force) aa 
fixed by the Controller, in consultation with the Steel Price Negotiations Committee, from time 
to time, will be payable. This extra charge has been fixed at Rs. 20/- per ton for the 

time being. 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1056 


679 


Fart hi— Special Conditions for Sales by Controlled Stock holders 

1. The rates shown in Column II above apply to all sales by Controlled Stockholders 
and are subject to the Place Extra given in the Freight (Place Extras) List at Appendix I for the 
Place in which the Stockyard of the Controlled Stockholder is situated. 

2. All sales by Controlled Stockholders arc ex-vard or f.o.r. Siding. No extra charge is 
admissible when delivery is made ex-yard or f.o.r. Siding or into workshops adjoining Stockholder’s 
yard. For such sales the charges incurred for loading the steel in the wagons or lorries should 
be borne by the Controlled Stockists. Where delivery is undertaken by Controlled Stockholder 
at the request of the buyer, delivery charges shall not, except by special arrangement between 
the stockholder and buyer, exceed the following rates : — 


1. Ambala 

2. Bombay 

3. Calcutta • 

4. Cuttack 

5. Delhi (Old and New) 

6 . Jullundur 

7. Kanpur 

8. Madras 

9 . Nagpur 

10. Vizianagram 


Rs. 

A. 

P. 



5 

0 

00 

Per 

Ton. 

10 

0 

0 

Per 

Ton. 

10 

0 

0 

Per 

Ton. 

7 

0 

0 

Per 

Ton. 

5 

12 

0 

Per 

Ton. 

4 

0 

0 

Per 

Ton. 

8 

0 

0 

Per 

Ton. 

6 

3 

0 

Per 

Ton. 

5 

0 

0 

Per 

Ton. 

3 

0 

0 

Per 

Ton. 


3, The rates in Column II above are for casl tales. The question of credit facilities will 
be a matter for negotiations between the Customers and the Controlled Stockholders. 

4. Octroi, Sales and other taxes levied on steel entering the Controlled Stockholder’s yard 
by the Government or the Local Authority of the State or Town where the stockyard is situated 
and similar taxes incurred in the process of delivery of materials from Seller’s yard or Siding to 
the Customer shall be borne by the latter. 


5. The base prices in Column II above are for sizes and lengths available in stock. Custo- 
mers requiring material cut to lengths or sizes not available in 9tock will be required to pay cutting 
and wastage charges agreed between Customers and the Stockholders. 


Part IV — Special Conditions for Sales by all Persons other than Producers 
and Controlled Stock holders 

t. The base rates given in Column III above Hre ex-sitc and apply to sales by all person 0 
other than Producers and Controlled Stockholders and are subject to the Place Extras given in 
t he Freight (Place Extras) List at Appendix I for the place where the material is lying and are 
n ot subject to additional charges for cutting or for credit facilities. 

2. Octroi, Sales and other taxes levied on steel entering the Stockholder’s yard by the Govern- 
ment or the Local Authority of the Stare or Town where the stockyard is situated and similar 
taxes incurred in the process of delivery of materials from Seller’s yard or Siding to the Customer 
shall be borne by the latter. 


List of Registered Producers 


1. 

2 . 
3 ' 
4- 

5. 

6 . 
7- 
8 
9- 

io- 

ii. 


13. 
1 4' 
15 


Messrs. Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd., 23B, Ncraji Subhas Road, Calcutta (Main Producer). 
„ Indian Iron and Steel Co. Ltd., 12, Mission Row, Calcutta (Main Producer), 

„ Tinplate Co. of India, Ltd., 4, Bankshall Street, Calcutta. 

,, Eagle Rolling Mills Ltd., Kumardbubi. 

„ Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd., Indranagar, P.O. Tatanagar (Main Producer). 
,, Indian Steel Rolling Mills, Negapatam. 

„ Guest, Keen, Williams, Ltd., 41, Chowringhcc Road, Calcutta, 

„ J. K. Iron and Steel Co. Ltd., Kamla Tower, Kanpur. 

„ National Iron and Steel Co. Ltd., Stephen House, 4, Dalliousie Sq., Calcutta. 

„ Bhartifl Electric Steel Co. Ltd., 42, Shibtala Street, Calcutta. 

,, Singh Engineering Works Ltd., Post Box No. 66, G. T. Road, Kanpur. 

,, Delhi Iron and Steel Co, Ltd,, Grand Trunk Road, Ghaziabad. 

„ Lauls Ltd., Earidabad Township. 

,, Cawnpore Rolling Mills Ltd., Harrisganj, Kanpur. 

„ Taj Iron and Steel Works, Ltd., 247, Ripon Road, Byculla, Bombay. 



68o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1956 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


16. Messrs. Batala Engineering Co. Ltd., Batala, E. Punjab. 

17. „ Sri Rama Machinery Corporation Ltd., Sundar Mahal, 55, Peter Road, Cathedr 3 *- 

Post, Madras. 

18. „ Prakash Engineering Co. and Rolling Mills, Freegunj, Agra City, 

j-y. ,, Hindusthan Iron and Steel Co., 8, Rajendra Deb Road, Calcutta. 

20. „ Partap Steel Rolling Mills, Chheharta, E. Punjab. 

21. ,, Mukand Iron and Steel Works Ltd., Agra Road, Kurla, Bombay. 

22. „ Bhartia Steel and Engineering Co. Ltd., 61, Keshab Sen Street, Calcutta. 

23. „ Mysore Iron and Steel WorkB, Bhadravati, Mysore (Main Producer). 

24. „ Krishna Steel Industries Ltd., Krishna Niwas, 301, Musid Bunder Road, Bombay. 

25. „ National Rolling and Steel Ropes, Ltd., Stephen House, 4, Dalhousie Square, 

Calcutta. 

2 6. „ Man Industrial Corporation Ltd., Near Loco— Jaipur, Jaipur. 

27. „ Bombay Steel Rolling Mills Ltd,, 33, Netaji Subhas Road, Caleutta-i. 

28. „ J. K. Steel Ltd., 7, Council House Street, Calcutta. 

29. „ Hind Wire Industries Ltd., P-16, Katakar Street, Calcutta. 

Schedule V 

IRON AND STEEL SCRAP 
Part I-A — Fresh unused Defective and Cuttings 

Maximum basic prices per ton at 
Calcutta, Bombay, Madras, Tata - 
nagar and Burnpore. 

Col. I Col. II Col. Ill 

For sales For sales For sales 

by Cont- by Scrap by all per- 

rolled Sour- Merchants sons other 

ces other who have than those 

than those been dec- mentioned 

mentioned lared Con- in Cols. I 

in Col. II trolled Sour- and II 

ces 


I 2 

3 

4 

5 


Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

1. Bars and Rods Mild Steel (Rounds and Squares 
below 3"' and Flats upto and including 5" 
wide) — Defective or Rejected — Bars above 
long and Rods above 8' — Base . 

460 

485 

505 

2. Fishplates — Defective or Rejected for heavy or 
light rails ...... 

400 

425 

445 

3. Plates Defective or Rejected— full — size— 3/8" 
and up thick— flare .... 

5 t 4 

339 

559 

4. Plates — Chequered 1/4" and up Defective or 
Rejected — Full size — Base 

530 

555 

575 

5. Rails- — -Steel — Defective or Rejected above 

12' and up long : — .... 




(a) Light 

460 

485 

505 

( b ) Heavy 

450 

475 

495 


Item Description or Classification of materials 
No. 



Part H— Sec, 3] 


MAY 12 , 

1956 

68r 

3 

4 

5 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

315 

340 

360 

475 

500 

520 

415 

440 

460 

670 

695 

715 

475 

50 0 

520 

425 

450 

470 

360 

335 

405 

475 

joo 

520 

800 

830 

850 

. Scrap 



310 

335 

355 

405 

430 

450 

310 

335 

355 

230 

255 

275 

460 

485 

505 

335 

360 

380 

460 

485 

505 

37 ° 

395 

415 

340 

365 

385 

250 

275 

295 


6. Semis Defective or Rejected (Ingots, Blooms, 

Billets— over 4", Slabs over 3" thick). 

7. Sheets — 

(u) Black — Defective or Rejected and cut 
down over 24" width and not below 4' 
in length, io/i4G — Base . 

( b ) Black — Cuttings— over 2d" in width and 
between 2' to 4' in length — 10/14G with 
stickers — Base 

8 . Sheets — Galvanised Corrugated — 

Defective or Rejected and Spotted — Full 
size 24 gauge — Base 

9. Sleepers — Steel — Defective or Rejected— 

( a ) Metre Gauge ..... 

lb) Broad Gauge . . . . 


10. Sleeper Bars— Defective or Rejected 9' 
above. ..... 


and 


11. Structurals (including Bars, Rounds and 

Squares 3" and above and Flats above S' 
wide) — Defective, Rejected and non- 
standard over 9' long — Base. , 

12. Tinplate waste wastcfull size all gauges 


Part I-B — Fresh unused Industrial Scrap 

1. Axles — Straight — Defective or Rejected 

2. Bars and Rods — Mild Steel (Round and Squares 

below 3" and Flats upto and including 5" 
wide) — 

(i) Cuttings — 2' to 9' Bars and 2' to 8' Rods — 

Base ...... 

(it) Cuttings — under 2' to T long . 

(Hi) Cuttings — under 1' long . 

3. Bars — High Carbon, Octagonal — 

Defective or Rejected and Cuttings : 

(0 2' long and above .... 

(it) Below 2' long .... 

4. Bars — Spring Steel : 

f i) Defective or Rejected over 9' in length 
(«) Defective or Rejected and Cuttings 2' 
to 9' in length .... 

(mi) Cuttings T to under 2' in length 
(in) Cuttings under T long . 


N.B. — Items marked Base will carry only Sectional Extras as in Extras List at Appendix III for 
Prime Quality Steel. 




682 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1956 


[Part II — Sec, 3 


i 


2 


;. Hoops or Thin Flats — Defective or Rejected 
and Cuttings — 3/16' to 1/16" in thickness 
and all widths : 

(i) Over 10' long ..... 

(ii) Between 2' to io' long 

(fit) Below 2' long .... 

6. Hoops Defective and Cuttings : 

(0 3/4 '' X 19/20G over io' in length 
(ii) 3/4" x 18/18G over 10' in length 
(in) 3/4* all gauges and below 10' in length 

7. Plates, Cuttings : 

(i) Ends and Strips, Straight sheared, below 
5/16" thick and above 10" wide — Base . 
(it) Ends and Strips below 5/16" and in 
widths upto 10 "—Base . . . 

8. Plates Chequered below 5/16 '— Base 

(i) Shearing above 10" wide 

(ii) Shearings upto to" wide 

9. Plates, Black — Rejected — full size as rolled- 

mixed guages 

10. Plates, Black — Cuttings : 

(i) Thin Straight sheared mixed gauges 

20)34, 4" wide and over . 

(ii) Thick hand-bundled mixed gauges 20/34, 

2" wide and over .... 

11. P.C.R-C.A. ’ Wasters-mixcd gauges full size 

(If these are sorted out by gauges, gauge 
extras as fixed for Tin Plate Co,, will 
apply) 

12. P.C.R.C.A. Strips— Cuttings — mixed gauges 

(If these are sorted out by gauges, gauge 
extras as fixed for Tin Plate Co., will 
apply). 

(1 ) Over 6" wide ..... 

(ii) 3' to 6" wide ..... 

(iii) Under 3' wide .... 

13. Rails — Steel — Cuttings : 

(i) Under 2' (Light or Heavy). 

(ii) 2' to 12' long.— Light 

14. Roll Spoils. — below 3/4" in thickness and all 

lengths ...... 

15. Sheets, Black-Cuttings, Fishtails and cleancut 

mixed 6"/ 24* wide : 

(i) 13/18 gauge 

(ii) 19/22 gauge 

(iii) 24 gauge 

(iv) 26 gauge ..... 

(v) 28 gauge .... 

0 vi ) 3° gauge 

16. Sheets— Black, Cuttings annealed cleancut 

pieces 6" to under 24" wide — mixed gauges . 


3 

4 5 

Rs. 

Rs. Rs. 


320 

345 

365 

3io 

335 

355 

190 

215 

235 

550 

575 

595 

515 

540 

560 

250 

275 

295 

350 

375 

395 

325 

3JO 

370 

37° 

395 

415 

320 

345 

365 

450 

475 

495 

320 

345 

365 

220 

245 

265 

425 

450 

470 


305 

330 

35° 

26J 

290 

310 

215 

240 

260 

270 

295 

315 

320 

345 

365 

320 

345 

365 


360 

385 

405 

370 

395 

415 

400 

425 

445 

4to 

535 

455 

420 

445 

4 fi 5 

430 

455 

475 

335 

360 

380 


- J4,B. — Items marked 'Base’ will carry only Sectional Extras as in Extras list at Appendix III for 
Prime quality steel. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1056 


683 


Past II — Sec. 3] 



3 4 5 


17. Sheets— -Black, Cuttings 6'' and up wide all 

Fishtails 10 to 12 gauges or mixed gauges . 

18. Sheets — Black, cuttings— 2" to under 6 " wide — 

Base .... 

19. Sheets — 

(a) Galvanised Plain cuttings of any or 
mixed gauges .... 

(i) Galvanized Corrugated cuttings of any 
or mixed gauges 

20. Structurals cuttings 2'/9' long including those 

of bars(Rounds and squares 3" and above and 
Flats above 5" wide) — Base. (Except Joists 
channels and angles 5/16" thick and up; 

21. Structurals Cuttings under 2' long including 

cuttings or Bars, (Rounds and Squares 3" 
and above and Flat above 5"wide 

22. Tinplate Strips — 28 gauge and thicker in lots : 

(If these arc sorted out by gauges, gauge 
extra as fixed for Tin Plate Co., will apply). 
Minimum Width Maximum Width 


(a) over 6" . . . 

lb) over 3" 6* . 

(cj over 2" 3" . 

(d) over J" 2" . 

( c ) over 1 1 2" 1* 

if) over 1/2" 


23. Tin Bars and Sheet Bars Crop-ends 2' to 6" 

wide ....... 

24. Wire, Defective and Short Lengths Specific 

gauges — 2 to 3 SWG (Gauge extras as 
fixed for M/S. Indian Steel and Wire 
Products Ltd. will apply). 

(«) Hard Bright .... 

(6) Annealed ..... 

(c) Galvanised (Including Telegraph) 
id) Barbed ..... 

25. Wire, Scrap and Cuttings in mixed unsorted 

gauges : 

(а) Hard bright ..... 

(б) Annealed ..... 

( c ) Galvanised ..... 

26. Wire,— Twisted, Bent and rusty — mixed or 

unmixed gauges : 

(a) Unannealled .... 

(, b ) Annealed ..... 

(c) Galvanised . . . 

id) Barbed . . . 

27. Wire Nails — Defective, Rejected and/or Rusty 

of any gauge or size. .... 


Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

270 

295 

315 

210 

23 J 

255 


5 io 

535 

555 

460 

485 

505 

350 

375 

395 

250 

27 5 

295 


360 

585 

605 

53 ° 

555 

575 

500 

525 

545 

470 

495 

SIS 

440 

495 

48 5 

410 

435 

455 

300 

325 

345 


550 

575 

595 

600 

625 

645 

690 

7*5 

735 

800 

825 

845 


500 

5 25 

545 

550 

575 

595 

640 

665 

685 


35 ° 

375 

395 

360 

385 

4°5 

440 

465 

485 

550 

575 

595 

ioo 

623 

645 


N.B. — Items marked ‘Base’ will carry only Sectional Extras as in Extras List at Appendix III 
for Prime Quality Steel. 



684 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1960 


[Part II — Sec. 3- 


i 2 3 4 5 


Part I-c — UsedjIndustrial Scrap 



Rs, 

Rs. 

Rs. 

I. Axles, Straight — (Railway) — not fit for rc- 

rolling^ ...... 

240 

265 

285 

2. Bars and Rods Mild Steel (Round and Squares 
below 3" and Flats upto and including 5" 
wide) : 

ft) 2'long and above Base 

330 

355 

375 

(it) Cuttings below 2' and upto 1 ' long . 

250 

275 

295 

(mi) Cuttings under 1 ' long 

170 

195 

215 

3. (a) Bars — Spring Steel : 

(i) Over 9' in length .... 

(it) Cuttings 2'/9' intlength 

360 

385 

405 

285 

310 

330 

(iii) Cuttings 1' to under 2' 

240 

263 

283 

(to) Cuttings under 1 ' long 

190 

215 

235 

(b) Crow Bars— Rejected 2' & over . . 

245 

270 

290 

4. Dog Spikes ...... 

195 

220 

240 

5. Draw Bars (Railway Engine and Carriage) 
with or without hooks : 

(a) 6' and above in length 

235 

260 

280 

lb) Below 6' in' length . . . 

220 

245 

265 

6. (A) Fencing Posts- Punchcd-complete or broken 

2' long and over 

220 

245 

263 

(B) Files — iSteel ...... 

545 

570 

590 

(C) Files— Broken but usable as files 

345 

370 

390 

7. Fish Plates for Heavy or Light Rails-usable . 

290 

315 

335 

8. Hoops or thin Flats : 

(i) to to 16 gauge over 10' long 

225 

250 

270 

(it) 3/4' x 20 gauge over 10' in length 

415 

440 

460 

(iii) 3/4" x 18/19 gauge over 10' in length 

385 

410 

430 

9. Hoops or thin Flats 1/8" and thinner cuttings 

below 10' in length — all widths 

200 

225 

245 

10. Plates Steel, with or without holes— all sizes 

below 5/16" thick ..... 

240 

265 

285 

II, Plates-Boiler-Stccl, with or without holes 

below 5/16" thickness — all lengths 

280 

305 

325 


12. Rails : 

(a) Above 27' long when Bold as Trans- 


mission Poles-sclectcd 

335 

360 

380 

(f>) Above r2' long— Light 

295 

320 

240 

(c) Above 12' long — Heavy 

275 

300 

320 

Id) All rails Light or Heavy 1' to 2 ' long . 

185 

210 

230 

(e) Light Rail Cuttings over 2' to 12' long. . 

250 

275 

295 

13. (A) Sheets — Galvanised Corrugated or plain 
mixed or unmixed gauges : 

(a) Used — but as good as new . . . 

455 

48O 

300 

(b) Used — demaged but utilisable . . 

335 

360 

380 

(c) Used— damaged and unutilisable . 

215 

240 

260 

(B) Sheets, Black-Plain or corrugated or 

Panel Sheets mixed jr unmixed gauges — 

fit for use as sheet cuttings . . • 

210 

235 

255 


N.B. — Items marked ‘Base’ will carry only Sectional Extras as in Extras 1 List at Appendix III 
for prime quality Steel. 


Part II — Sec. 3] 


685 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1956 


I 2 

3 

4 

5 

14. Sleepers, pressed— steel— cuttings or full 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

length not fit for re-rolling 

15. Spring, Steel — Laminated, Volute, Helical 
and Spiral : 

(i) Complete 

170 

195 

215 

335 

360 

380 

(it) Broken pieces ..... 

16. Structural cuttings above 9' long including 
those of Rounds and Square* 3" and above 

235 

260 

280 

thick and Flats above 5" wide — Base 

17. (A) Strueturals cuttings under 2' long includ- 
ing those of Rounds and Squares 3' and 

285 

310 

330 

above thick and Flat above 5* wide . . 

(B) Tubes 

195 

220 

240 

(f) Flue 8' and over .... 

250 

275 

295 

(ii) Boiler 8' and over .... 

250 

275 

295 

(Hi) Element 8' and over 

250 

275 

295 

(C) Vacuum Pipes 8' and over 

250 

275 

29 

18. Wire— mixed of all sizes and gauges. 

275 

300 

320 


Part II-A — Fresh Re-rollable Scrap 




Maximum 
basic prices 

Item 

Description or classification of materials 

per ton at 

No. 

Calcutta, 

Bombay, 

Madras, 





Tatanagar 



and 



Btimpur 

1 

2 

3 


x. Plates, shearings (resulting from fabrication work or from Producers ) both Rs. 

Plain and Chequered of thickness 5/16" and up ..... 3t5 

2. Rails, Steel Heavy, cuttings 2' to 12' long ...... 3°5 

3. Rolls-spoils 3/4 and thicker 315 

4. Semis Defective Billets upto 4" and Slabs upto 3" Sheet Bars Tin Bars 

and Sleepers Bars and Flat Bars and also Sheet Bar and Tin Bar Crop 
Ends above 6' wide and any other materials of thickness 3/16'’ and 

up ~ . 32J 

3. Sleeper Bars Cuttings 2' ro below 9' ...... 325 

6. Structural cuttings viz.-, Joists, Channels and Angles 2' to 9' long and 5/16" 

thick an dup 325 

7. All other fresh materials considered by Iron and Steel Controller as suitable 

Or fit for Re-rolling 31 

0 


(1) Items marked ’Base’ will carry sectional Extras as in Extras List at Appendix III for prime 

quality steel, 

(2) In case the materials which have been classified under Part III item No. 1 arc not broken 
and can be utilised as Industrial Scrap and Arc nett covered by any item of Part 1 — C, these 
should be classified under Part I— C and charged at f.o.r. Port rates per ton aB under : — 

Col I Col. II Col. Ill 


Rs. 150/- Rs. 175 /- Rs, 19s/' 



686 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1956 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


Description or classification of materials 

Item 

No. 


i 


2 


Maximum 
basic prices 
per ton at 
Calcutta, 
Bombay, 
Madras, 
Tatanagar 
and 

Burnpur 

3 


Part II-B— Used Re-rollablb Scrap Rs. 

1. Axles and CrankAxlcs Straight Rail way —Loco C&W - fitfor re-rolling . 295 

2. Draw Bars — Steel (With or without Hook) above 6’ long . . 26} 

3. Fish plates for Heavy Rails, unserviceable ...... 245 

4. Plates Shipbuilding, Railways, etc. with or without holes 5/16" and up thick- 

ness ............ 255 

5. Rails— Steel Heavy 2' to 12' long (including points and Crossings and un- 

serviceable rails of all length ........ 265 

6. Sleepers. Steel- Full lengths ........ 255 

7. Structural including Bars (Rounds and Squares 3' and above, flats above 

5" wide)to 'long .......... 265 

8. Tic Bars — Mild Steel punched 2' long and over ..... 215 

9. Tyres Scrap (with or without Studholcs) ...... 265 

10. All other used materials from any source including such scrap recovered 

from old fabrication (Heavy Structurals and Bars over 5/ 16" thickness 
inclusive) suitable or fit for- rcrolling ...... 230 


N-B. If any material described under Part IIA and B above is allotted to a Controlled Scrap 
Merchant for resale, the chargeable rate of the stockist will be Rs, 25/- per ton more than 
the rate fixed for the materials under this Part. 

N-B. The following Railway materials will be included in item No. 10 of Part IIB above : 

(1) Fabricated materials of Rounds, Squares and' Flats with/without attachments. 

(2) Fire Prickers 1-1/4'' Sq. and up. 

(3) Truss Bars 1-1/4" Sq. and up. 

(4) Beams, fabricated, without attachment. 

(5) Channels, fabricated comprising of bogie, under-frames and wagon under-frames. 

(6) Channels, fabricated. Engine and Tender Frames. 


Part III— Melting Scrap 


Item 

No. 


Description or Classification of materials 
2 


Maximium 
basic prices 
per ton 
ex-site 
3 


1. Mild Steel Commercial quality Melting Scrap (excluding Boiings and Turn- 

ings and Special quality low Phosphorus Melting Scrap with Phosphorus 
content not exceeding ■ 05, per cent). Cast Steel Scrap and perforated 
Plates 1/8'j etc 

2. Fresh Boring alnd Turnings ........ 

3. Special quality low Phosphorus steel Melting Scrap 

(t) Phosphorus content not exceeding ■ 04 per cent. . ... 

(it) Phosphorus content above. '04 1 per cent, but not exceeding *03 
per cent. . 


Rs. 


75 

15 


105 

90 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1050 


Part [I — Sec. 3] 


687 


x 


2 


4 - Cast Iron Melting Scrap Grade I ........ 75 

Grade II 53 

5. Loco Types and Wheels — broken 90 

6. Spring Steel Melting Scrap (Including volute, Helical and spiral Spring 

under 1 ' long broken unusable files). ...... 90 

Rate per ton f.o.r. Port. 
coi. r Coi. 11 

7. Ingot Moulds Scrap broken ...... R$, 115/- Rs. 130 /- 

8. Ingot Moulds Scrap unbroken ..... 95 j- no/- 


Note. i. No Place Extra is chargeable for sale of Melting Scrap except Ingot Moulds Scrap Item 
No. 7 and 8. 


2. The following Railway Scrap materials will be included in item No. 1 of Part III above 
(1) Axle Boxes C & W Cast Steel broken or un-reclaimablc 


Axle Boxes (Loco) 

Do. 

Axle Guards 

Do. 

Buffer Casing 

Do. 

Bogie Pivots 

Do. 

Buckles 

Do. 

Brake Levers 

Do. 

Brake Shafts 

Do. 

Brake Beams Flats 

Do. 

Bhawers 

Do. 

Bcatcts Scrap 

Do. 

Buffers Spindle and Bcads-cast-stcel and broken or unserviceable or un-reclaimable. 

Boiler tubes 

Do. 

Bolts and Nuts not re-usable and cut pieces thereof 

Coupling Screws — Broken or unserviceable. 
Coupler Components. 

Do, 

Drag Boxes 

Do. 


(18) Dog Spikes Do. 

(19) Drag Castings Do. 

(20) Draw Bar Hooks Do. 

(21) Duplicate Low and Carriage Do. 

(22) Duplicate Scrap C & W, Do, 


(.23) Draw Bar Face Plates Do, 

(24) Engine Frame Parts Do. 

(25) Engine Pins, sorts and sizes Do. 

(26) Element Tubes Do. 

(27) Forged Steel Do. 

(28) Fencing Posts under 2' long Do. 

(29) Fish Plates broken pieces Do. 

(30) Motion Girders 


(31) Flue Tubes and other sorts of vacuum pipes etc. 8 under 
ft. 

(32) , Perforated Plates 1/8" and above 

(33) Plates M.S. Scrap fabricated 

(34) Rivets, Washers 

(35) Rubbing Blocks 

(36) Rods of C-II sorts (connecting Rods Slide Rods & Piston 

(37) Sheets M.S. Mixed sizes fit or melting purposes only 

(38) Scrap Boiler Trussers 

( 39 ) Scrap Smoke Boxes 

(40) Stretcher Casting 

(41) Trussers M.S. 

(42) Wheel Centres — C. & W. or Loco 

(43) Wagon Doors Scrap 

(44) Wrought Iron Rails 

(45) Wagon Panncls — mixed 

(46) Wrought Iron Girders 


Broken or unserviceable. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Rods) Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do, 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 



688 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1950 


LPart II — Sec. 3 


3. The following Railway Scrap materials will be included in item No. 3 of Part III above. 


(1) Draw Bars, Railway Engine and Carriage Wagons 

with or without hooks below 6' long. 

(2) Cranks and Crank Pins 

(3) Chains of sizes 

(4) Cross-heads of types 

( 3 ) Tyres, Wheels and Axles-cut pieces (Loco and C & W.) 
(6) Bering Plates Mild steel 


Broken or un-reclaim- 
able. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do, 

Do. 

Do. 


4. The follwoing Railway Scrap materials will be included in item No. 4 of Part III above : 


(1) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 

( 5 ) 

( 6 ) 

( 7 ) 

( 8 ) 
( 9 ) 

(10) 

(11) 

(12) 

( 13 ) 

( 14 ) 

(15) 

(16) 

( 17 ) 


Broken pieces of Piston and Piston Valve Rings. 
Bull Rings. 


Steam Cheat Liners. 

Slide Blocks. 

Pulleys. 

Vacuum Chambers. 

C.I. Drums Defective 

Bearings Plates 5/8" and thinner (cast) 

Brake blocks (iron) 

Pot Sleepers — broken. 

Heavy Cylinders 
Headers 
Drag Boxes. 

Frames 

Fire Bars burnt 
Wheels Chilled 

Heavy Cast Iron Scrap each weighing 4 
and Chilled Wheels etc. (Gr. II) 


Broken and un-reclaimable 
Do. 


Broken or unreclalmablo 
Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Broken or un-reclaimable. 
:. or 5 mds. and over, c.g,, Burn Fire Bars 


(18) Cast Iron Machinery parts — Clean and without attachments (Gr. I) 


N.B. If any materials described under Part III is allotted to a Controlled Scrap Merchant for 
resale his chargeable rate will be Rs, 15/- per ton more than the rate fixed for the material 
under this part except in the case of Borings and Turnings (Item No. 2) for which his 
chargeable rate will be Rs. 20/- per ton including his remuneration. 


CONDITIONS FOR SALE 


I. General 

1. This Scrap Price Schedule has been 

(1) Part I- A 

(2) Part I-B ..... 

(3) Part I-C 

(4) Part II-A .... 

(5) Part II-B .... 

(6) Part III . 


divided into the following Parts ; viz 
Fresh Defectives and Cuttings, 
Fresh Industrial Scrap, 

Used Industrial Scrap, 

Fresh Re-rollable Scrap, 

Used Re-rollable Scrap and 
Melting Scrap. 


2. In respect of all sales the prices and other provisions of this Schedule relevant thereto 
’Shall come into force with effect from the date on which they arc published in the Gazette of 
India and notwithstanding the rates at which an order has been booked and/or materials paid for, 
shall apply to all deliveries effected on or after that date. In cases where deliveries are effected 
by Rail, the date of Railway Receipt shall be deemed to be the date of delivery. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1956 


689 


Part II — Sec. 3] 


3. Except in respect of Melting Scrap in Part III of this Schedule for which the rates have 
■been made applicable ex-site, the prices in this Schedule are on port basis. In respect of Defec- 
tives and cuttings and Industrial and Rc-rollable Scrap, enumerated in Parts IA, IB, IC, IIA and 
IIB of the Schedule the prices at places other than ports (Via., Calcutta, Bombay, Madras, Tata- 
nagar and Burnpore) will be determined by adding the place Extras given in Freight (Place Ex- 
tras) List at Appendix I in the manner indicated in the Special Conditions given below. For 
any rail-head place not included in the said list, the place Extra will be determined withrefer- 
«ence to the actual Railway Freight per ton at P.T. rate for prime quality steel despatched in full 
wagon load to such places from the nearest of the above 5 Ports except that for places which arc not 
within 250 miles of the Ports of Tatanagar or Burnpore the place extras will be determined with 
reference to the three ports of Calcutta, Bombay and Madras. For sale of Melting Scrap, no 
Place Extra is chargeable. In the case of any dispute regarding the place extra, the decision of 
the Iron and Steel Controller shall be final. 

4. (a) Extras for section, gauge or thickness or for quality as admissible from time to time 
for prime quality steel will apply to Defectives, Cuttings, Scrap etc. only to the extent indicated in 
the foot notes to the Scrap Price Schedule. 

(b) Where a lot consists of a mixture of different Sections, sizes, thicknesses or gauges and a 
separate price for mixed lots has not been fixed, the price will be calculated on the lowest priced 
flection, size, thickness or gauge. 

5. These prices arc for cash sales, The question of Credit facilities is a matter for negotia 
tlon between the buyer and the seller. 

6. Octroi, Sales or other taxes incurred in the process of delivery from the seller to the buyer 
will be borne by the latter. 

7. Where no appropriate price has been notified for any item of scrap, the Controller may 
classify such i tem or items and fix such price as he may consider appropriate. 


8. The chargeable weight in respect of alt kinds of Defectives and Scrap shall be the actual 
fleale weight 


II-A.— Special Conditions for Sales by the Main Producers (Via., Messrs Tata Iron 
& Steel Co. Ltd,, Calcutra, Indian Iron & Steel Co. Ltd., Calcutta and Mysore Iron 
& Steel Works, Bhadravati and by Secondary Registered Producers viz., Indian Steel 
& Wire Products Ltd,, Indranagar and Tinplate Co. of India Ltd., Tatanagar). 

1. (a) Sales and despatches in full wagon loads of Defectives, Scrap etc. other than Melting 
Scrap by the above Main and Secondary Registered Producers shall be made f.o.r. destination 
i.e., the base prices shown in Col. I plus the appropriate Place Extra for the destination. 

(b) Where wagons are not fully loaded the customer shall pay the f.o.r. destination rate 
phis the difference between the actual freight per ton and the amount of freight per ton which 
would have been incurred if the wagon had been fully loaded. 


(c) If, where the above Main and Secondary Producers sell a lot f.o.r. destination and the 
mutcrials arc sent at the customers’ request, by a route or means of transport, other than the cheap- 
est, the extra cost shall be borne by the customer. 

(d) For deliveries by Rail In 1 smalls' sales shells be made f.o.r. despatching station and the 
base rates shall be adjusted by adding the Place Extra for the despatching station. In such cases 
the actual freight shall be borne by the buyer. 


II-B, — Special Conditions for Sales by Registered Producers (other than the Main Pro* 
ducers, Messrs Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd. & Tinplate Co. of India Ltd. etc 
and Controlled sources (other than controlled Scrap Merchants). 

t. Sales and despatches by the Registered Producers (other than the Main Producers 
Messrs Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd. and Tinplate Co. of India Ltd., etc.) and Controlled 
sources (other than controlled Scrap Merchants) shall be made f.o.r. Seller’s siding or f.o.r. des- 
patching station, as the case may be, at col. I price plus the place extra for the despatching station. 
Actual freight from the despatching station to the destination station shall also be borne by the 
consignee. 



690 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1956 


[Part II — Sec. ® 


IIC. Special Conditions for Sales by the Controlled Scrap Merchants 

1. The rates shown in Col. II above, apply to all sales by Controlled Scrap Merchants and 
are subject to Place Extras as per the Freight (place Extras) List at APPENDIX I for the place 
where the stockyard of the Controlled Scrap Merchant is situated. 

2 . All sales by Controlled Scrap Merchants are ex. their yards or f.o.r. their siding. No 
extra charges are admissible when delivery is made ex-yard or f.o.r. their siding, or into work- 
shops adjoining to the Controlled Scrap Merchants’ yard. For such sales, the charges incurred 
for leading defectives or scrap in the wagons or Lorries shall be borne by the Controlled Scrap 
Merchants. Where delivery is undertaken by the Controlled Scrap Merchants at the request of 
the buyer, the delivery charges shall not, except by special arrangements between the Controlled 
Scrap Merchants and the buyer, exceed the following rates per ton : — 



Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs, As, Pb* 

Calcutta . 

10 0 0 

Jullunder 

400 

Bombay . 

10 0 0 

Nagpur 

500 

Madras 

680 

Vizianagram . 

300 

Delhi (old & new) 

J120 

Cuttack . 

700 

Kanpur . 

. . 8 00 

Ambala 

5 0 0 


Jl-D . Special Conditions for ' Sales by all persons other than Main Producers, Registered Pro- 
ducers , (other than Alain Producers), Controlled Sources and Controlled Scrap Merch- 
ants. 


I. The base rates given In Col. Ill above, apply ex-yard and are subject to Place Extra given 
In the Freight (Place Extras) List at APPENDIX I for the place where the materials are lying. 


APPENDIX I 

FREIGHT (PLACE EXTRAS) 

Subject to the provisions of relevant ‘CONDITIONS FOR SALE’, the following 
Freight (Place Extras) are to be added over the base prices in respect of the 
Items under Schedule II, Schedule IV and Schedule V (except Items 1 to 6 in 
Part III thereof) for the respective rail-head:— 

Freight ( Place Extras) List No , 1 0 } 1956 


Destination 

Place Ex- 

Destination 

Place Ex- 


tra per 


tra per 


ton 


ton 


A 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. PS. 


Abohar . 

Abu Road 

Achnera Jn. 

Adirampatnam 

Adonl 

Adra 

Adutuxai 

Agarpara 

Agas 

Aghwanpur 

Agra 

Anmadnagar 
'Ahmadpur 
Ahmcdabad Jn. 
Ahmadgarh 
Ahraura Road 


. 60 o o 

. 41 12 o 

. 60 0 o 

. 25 0 o 

. 31 12 o 
540 
. 20 o o 

5 ° o 
. 28 12 o 

. 60 0 o 

. 60 o o 

. 22 12 o 

12 o 0 
. 32 0 o 

. So o o 
. 41 12 o 


Ajmer Jn. 
Ajodhya . 
Akaltara . 
Akbarpur 
Akivedu . 
Akkhihabbalu 
Akkur 
Akola 
Alambagh 
Aligarh . 

Alir 

Allahabad 
Alleppey O.A. 
Almora O.A. 
Alnavar . 
Alwar 


. 57 0 o 

. 50 12 o 

• 41 4 o 

. 47 12 O 

• 33 4 a 

- 35 o o 

. 20 0 o 

. 36 4 0 

. 56 o o 

. 60 o 0 

. 42 8 o 

. 48 o 0 

. 54 o o 

■ 132 1 2 o 

■ 41 o o 

. 60 o o 


Part II — 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1050 


691 


Destination 


Place Destination Place 

Extra Extra 

P cr ton per ton 


A — contd. 
Alwar Tirungiri 
Alwaye . 
Amalner . 
Amalsad . 
Ambala Cantt. & 
Ambarnath 
Ambatarai 


Ayyalur . 
Ayyampet 
Azamgarh 
Azhikkal (Vt 
Azimgani Jn. 


City 


Ambika Kalna . 

. 


. 8 0 

Ambur . 



. 12 12 

Arabasamudram 



• 41 4 

Ambyapur 



■ 59 ° 

Amila 



■ 49 0 

Amla 



■ 50 12 

Amlori Sarsar . 



. 46 0 

Amolwa . 



■ 49 0 

Amraoti . 



. 40 12 

Amreli . 



■ 47 0 

Amritsar 



. 60 0 

Amroha . 



. 60 0 

Anakappelle 



■ 44 8 

Anakhol . , 



■ 35 0 

Anamalai Road 



■ 34 12 

Anand Jn. 



. 28 4 

Anandnagar 



• 53 8 

Anandpur Sahib] 



60 0 

Anantapur 



■ 29 4 

Anaparti . 



■ 37 0 

Anara 



. 17 12 

Anas 



■ 34 12 

Andul 



• 5 0 

Anjangaon 



. 41 0 

An jar 



■ 55 0 

Anjhi 



. 60 0 

Anklcsvar Jn. . 



. 21 0 

Annavaram 



. 40 8 

Aotila 



. 60 0 

Arantangi 



. 28 8 

Arasalu . 



. 41 0 

Aravankadu 



. 46 8 

Arlyalur . 



18 0 

Arkonam 



■ 7 R 

Amcj 



. 36 12 

Arrali 



. 24 12 

Arisikcre 



• 33 4 

Arumuganerl . 



• 42 4 

Asafpur . 



. 60 0 

Asansol . 



5 0 

Asarva Jn. 



. 32 0 

Atari 



. 60 0 

Ateli 



. 60 0 

Attili 



• 35 12 

Attur 



. 20 8 

Aurangabad 



. 25 0 

Avadi 



• 5 4 


R s. As. Ps, 
41 4 

40 8 
30 8 
15 8 
60 o 
6 8 
28 8 


o 

0 

0 

o 

0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 

Q 

0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 


lapatnam) 


27 o 
22 12 
49 8 


45 

15 


o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 

o 

0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

Q 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 

0 

o 

o 

0 

o 

0 

o 


Babatpur 
Babhnan . 


42 o o 
56 8 o 


Rs, As- P*. 


Bachrawn . . 


• 54 00 

Baconganj (Kanpur) . 


• 57 4 0 

Badagara 


. 42 8 0 

Badausa . 


■ 55 4 0 

Badampahar . 

t 

840 

Badkulla . 


840 

Badnapur 


. 27 4 0 

Badnera Jn. 


. 40 4 0 

Bagalkot . 


- 40 0 0 

Baghauii . 


■ 59 00 

Baghpat Road . 


. 60 0 0 

Bagnan . 


5 12 0 

Bagoola . . . 


. 880 

Eagwali . 


. 60 0 0 

Bahadurgan) Goods Shed 
Bahadurgarh . 


. 60 0 0 

. 60 0 0 

Bahjoi 


.. 60 0 0 

Bahraich 


. 60 0 0 

Baidynathdham 


9 12 O 

Bairagarh 


. 49 8 0 

Bairagnia. 


. 44 8 0 

Bajuva 


. 26 8 0 

Balagarh . 


740 

Balaghat Jn. . 


, 57 8 0 

Balasore . 


. 15 8 0 

Balharshah 


. 51 0 0 

Ballia 


. 45 12 0 

Ballichuk. 


840 

Bally 


■ 5 4 0 

Balotra . 


■ 57 8 0 

Balrampur 


. 60 0 0 

Balugan . 


• 33 0 0 

Balwa 


. 52 12 0 

Bamania . 


. 37 8 0 

Bamhrauli 


. 48 80 

Bamra 


15 12 0 

Banapura 


. 42 8 0 

Banaras Cantt. 


. 41 12 0 

Banda 


. 57 0 0 

Bandel Jn. 


580 

Bandikui Jn. . 


. 60 0 O 

Bandra M. Yard 


5 4 0 

Banga 


. 60 0 0 

Bangarapct 


■ 19 4 0 

Bangalore City 


1 23 8 O 

Bangrod - 


. 40 4 0 

Bankhedi- 


. 48 12 O 

Bankura . 


84O 

Banner ■ 


60 0 0 

Bansabati 


600 

Bansi-Paharpur 


. 60 0 0 

Banswara O.A. 


. 69 4 0 

Santa Raghunathgarh 


■ 49 4 O 

Baoria Thikria 


. 60 0 0 

Bapatla . 


. 23 8 0 

Barabani 


. 14 8 0 

Barabanki 

of 

. 56 0 0 

Barabil Siding Ex. 

siding 

charge 


. 10 8 0 

Baraduar 


. 26 4 0 

Bara Jamda 


. 10 8 O 

Barakar . 


580 

Baramati 


. 21 0 0 



692 


.THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1966 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


Destination 


B — corttd. 


Barang . 

Bara™ 

Baraset 
Barauni In, 
Bardoli . 
Bareilly . 

Bare adi 
Barh 

Barfiaj Bazar 
Barharwa 
Baripada 
Barka Kana 
Barkhera 
Barkuhi , 
Banner 
Bamaaar 
Barnala . 
Baroda M. Yard 
Barpcta . 
Barrackpore 
Barwadih 
Barwaha . 

Basfti 

Bassein Road . 

Basti 

Batala 


Batanagar Siding (Nangi) 
Bath naha 
Bauria 
Bayana 


Bess 

Beawar . 
Bechraji . 
Bcdi bander 
Begamabad 


Begusarai 
Behea 
Bdagula . 

Belanganj 
Belapur , 

Bdgaum . 

Bdghurriah 
Bellary . 

Bripahfir 

Berhampur Court 
Berhampur (Ganjani) 
Benno 
Bcuittifi . 

Bctul 

Bczwada (Vijayawada) 
Bhavnagar Docks 
Bhavnagar Terminus 
Bhabua Road . 
Bhadohi - 

Bhadrachallam Road 
Bhadrak . 

Bhadravati 
Bhadreswar Ghat 


Bhaga 

Bhagalpur 

Bhagtanwala 


Place Place 

Extra Destination Extra 

per ton per ton 


Rs. As. 

Ps- 

Bhairangarh 

Bhalaj 




Rs. As, Ps 

37 12 0 
28 12 0 

27 4 

0 

Bhandara Road 




5 2 

O 

0 

6o o 

0 

Bhandup 




5 

0 

0 

5 o 

0 

Bhankheda 




36 

8 

0 

23 4 

0 

Bharatgarh 




60 

0 

0 

19 12 

0 

Bharatpur Jn. . 




60 

0 

0 

60 0 

0 

Bharoli . 




60 

0 

0 

31 0 

0 

Bharthna 




60 

0 

0 

30 8 

0 

Bhawani Mandi 




48 

8 

0 

49 12 

0 

Bharwari 




49 

12 

0 

15 8 

0 

Bhatapara 




45 

0 

0 

18 4 

0 

Bhatinda 




60 

0 

0 

It 4 

0 

Bhigwan . 




19 

12 

0 

46 8 

0 

Bhilai 




49 

8 

0 

57 0 

0 

Bhilupur 




27 

8 

0 

60 0 

0 

Bhihvara 




52 

8 

0 

42 8 

0 

Bhimadol 




32 

4 

0 

60 0 

0 

Bhimavaram 




34 

8 

0 

26 4 

0 

Bhind 




60 

0 

0 

60 0 

0 

Bhiwani . 




60 

0 

0 

5 0 

0 

Bhojuidid 




7 

0 

0 

23 0 

0 

Bhongir . 




43 

12 

0 

39 0 

0 

Bhopal , 




49 

O 

0 

60 0 

0 

Bhoyani , 




35 

8 

0 

6 4 

0 

Bhubaneswar , 




28 

0 

0 

54 t2 

0 

Bhuj 




57 

0 

0 

60 0 

0 

Bhurkunda 




13 

0 

0 

5 4 

0 

Bhusaval 




28 

8 

0 

37 4 

0 

Bibinagar 




44 

8 

0 

5 0 

0 

Bihar Sharif . 




34 

12 

0 

60 0 

0 

Bihta 




35 

4 

0 

60 0 

0 

Bijainagar 




56 

0 

0 

54 8 

0 

Bijnor 




60 

0 

0 

36 12 

0 

Bikaner . 




60 

" 0 

0 

49 8 

0 

Biiara 




59 

0 

0 

60 0 

0 

Biiaspur . 




42 

8 

0 

35 12 

0 

Bil^a 




60 

0 

0 

37 4 

0 

Bilunora . 




15 

4 

0 

33 0 

0 

Bilochpura 




60 

0 

0 

60 0 

0 

Bilpur 




60 

0 

0 

23 0 

0 

Bilthara Road . 




49 

12 

0 

36 12 

0 

Bindhachal 




43 

12 

0 

5 0 

0 

Bindki Road 




55 

4 

0 

32 0 

0 

Birlanagar 




60 

O 

0 

33 4 

0 

Birmitrapur 




13 

8 

0 

13 0 

0 

Bimagar 




7 

12 

0 

36 12 

0 

Birsinghpur 




54 

4 

0 

21 8 

0 

Bisra 




II 

0 

0 

46 8 

0 

Biswan 




59 

12 

0 

49 12 

0 

Bobbiii Jn. 




50 

8 

0 

27 12 

0 

Boinchec 




7 

S 

0 

46 0 

0 

Boiarum . 




47 

8 

0 

45 12 
37 8 

0 

0 

Bolpur , 

Bombay — 




II 

0 

0 

43 8 
37 12 

19 8 
37 12 

5 4 

7 8 

20 8 
60 0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Central 

Byculla 

Camac Bunder 
Dadar , 

Kurla . 

Mahaiaxmi 

Mahim 

Matunga 




Nil. 

»* 

>1 

>» 

>» 

H 

IJ 




Part II— Sec. 8] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1OTB 

693 


Place 


Place 

Destination 

Extra 

Destination 

Extra 


per ton 


per tow 

Rs. A. P 


Rs. A. P. 

B. — coricld. 


Cannanorc 

44 12 D 



Captainganj 

52 0 0 

Bombay — condd. 


Castle Rock 

40 12 0 

Pare! .... 

Nil 

Chaibasa 

680 

Sion . 

M 

Chainpur 

24 4 • 

T.L. Manganese Depot . 

II 

Chakarpur 

60 0 0 

B.P.T, Rly 

II 

Chakardharpore 

680 

Wadala .... 

M 

Chakdaha 

680 

Wadi Bunder 


Chakeri .... 

<|6 12 0 

Bommldi .... 

19 8 o 

Chakia .... 

42 12 O 

Bonakalu .... 

32 0 0 

Chakulia 

7 0® 

Bongaon .... 

780 

Chaiakudi 

39 0 0 

Borawar , 

60 0 0 

Chalisgaon 

21 8 e 

Bordutti Ghat .... 

60 0 0 

Chamarajanagar 

35 4 0 

Borivii . 

540 

Chamba O.A. . 

163 4 0 

Broach ..... 

22 0 0 

Champa .... 

40 0 0 

Brojorajnagar ... 

18 8 0 

Champion 

zo 0 0 

Budaun .... 

60 0 0 

Chanasma 

37 12 “ 

Budalur ..... 

24 8 0 

Chanda .... 

50 12 0 

Budge Budge .... 

500 

Chanda Fort , 

59 » 0 

Budhlada .... 

60 0 0 

Chandausi 

60 0 0 

Bukhtiarpur ... 

19 4 0 

Chandemagore . 

5 4“ 

Bulandshahr ... 

60 0 O 

Chandia Road . 

56 4 0 

Bulsar 

14 4 0 

Chandigarh 

60 0 0 

Burdwan ... 

8 12 0 

Chandil .... 

540 

Burhar ..... 

51 4 0 

Chandni .... 

32 12 0 

Burhwai .... 

57 12 0 

Chandpara 

7 0 0 

Bumpore 

Nil 

Chandpur Siau 

60 0 0 

Butari ..... 

60 0 0 

Chandragiri 

II 12 0 

Buxar .... 

39 12 0 

Chandrakona Road . 

ir 8 0 

Byadgl .... 

44 4 0 

Charbagh (Lucknow) 

56 4 0 



Charbata 

26 4 0 

C 


Chatra .... 

16 0 0 



Chebrol .... 

33 0 0 

Calcutta — 


Chheharta 

60 0 0 



Chheoki .... 

47 12 ® 

Armenian Ghat 

Nil 

Chhindwara 

57 0 0 

Ballygunge .... 

II 

Chhota Udaipur 

31 0 ® 

Beliaghata . 

ft 

Chhuehhapura 

28 0 0 

Belur 

JI 

Chickmagalur O.A. . 

48 0 0 

Charakdanga 

If 

Chidambaram 

17 4 0 

Chitpur 

II 

Chikhli Road 

16 8 c 

Cossipore ... 

f > 

Chikodi Road . 

33 '0 0 

Dum Dum Cantt. 

ll 

Chinch vad 

12 8 0 

Garden Reach 

1) 

Chingighar Siding . 

58 0 0 

Howrah 

If 

Chinglipet Jn. 

7 0 * 

Juggemath Ghat . 

JJ 

Chinna Salem 

. 18 12 0 

K.R Docks 

If 

.... 

15 0 » 

Kadamtala 

ll 

Chintamanl 

24 0 0 

Kalighat ... 

>J 

Chipurupalle 

46 4 ® 

Kulpighttt (Sahib Bazar) 

J! 

Chirala 

, 22 n 0 

Lillooah 

II 

Chirawa .... 

60 0 0 

Meerbaharghat 

Jf 

Chirmiri .... 

. 54 * « 

Narkeldanga 

If 

Chiltaidroog 

. 41 0 “ 

Neemtala Ghat 

II 

Chitorgarh 

49 12 0 

Ramkristaporc 

ff 

Chittaranjan 

580 

Ruthtola (Nundy Bari Ghat) , 

ft 

Chittaranjan Workshop Siding 

5 12 0 

Sealdah . 

>1 

Chittoor .... 

12 4 O 

Shalimar ... 

fl 

Chcmu Samod 

. 60 0 ® 

Strand Ware House 

If 

Choranda 

. 25 4 • 

Sulkia ..... 

II 

Chunar 

41 12 ® 

Ultadanga 


Chupra .... 

, 42 4 O 

Calicut , 

40 4 0 

Churk .... 

46 O • 

Cambay , 

31 4 0 

Churu .... 

60 0 • 



694 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1960 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Rs. A, p. 


Rs. a. p. 


C. — contd. 

Closcpet (Raranagaram) 
Cluttcrbuckganj 
Cocanada (Port & Town) 
Cochin Harbour Terminus 
Cochin O.A. 

Coimbatore 
Coleroon 
Colgong . 

Conjeeveram 
Contai Road 
Cooch Behar 
Coondapur 
Coonoor , 

Cooperganj (Kanpur) 
Coromandel 
Cossimbazar 
Cuddalore Jn, 

Cuddalorc New Town 
Cuddapah 
Cumbum 
Cuttack . 


Dabra 
Dabhoi . 

Dadri 
Dahei 
Dalnhat . 

Dakor 
Dalauda . 

Dmlmia Dadri 
Dalmianagar Siding 
Dalmlapuram 
Dalpatpur 
Dalsingh Sarai 
Daltongani 
Damodar Jn. 

Danea 

g ankaur , 
ankuni . 

Darah 
Darbhanga 
Darjeeling 
Daryabad 
Daryapur Jn. 
Dasampatti 
Daauya , 

Datia 
Davangere 
Dawram Madhepura 
Deesa 
Dcgana . 

Dehra Dun 
Dehri City _ 
Dehri-on-Sone 
Dehu Road 


26 8 
60 o 
39 o 

S t 

3t 8 
17 4 

a S i 
10 12 
6o o 
60 o 
44 8 

57 4 
19 12 

13 8 

14 8 
14 4 
17 12 
37 o 
26 8 


o 

0 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 


60 

26 

60 

26 

10 

29 

43 

60 

34 

19 

60 


24 

22 

15 

11 
60 

5 

51 
28 
60 
54 

52 

17 

60 

60 

42 

39 

40 
60 
60 
37 
22 

12 


O 

12 

0 

4 

12 

12 

12 

O 

4 

12 

o 

12 

8 

o 

8 

o 

4 

o 

8 

o 

o 

8 

4 

o 

0 

o 

8 

8 

O 

o 

12 

12 

O 


O 

0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 

0 

0 

o 

0 

o 

0 

o 

0 

0 

0 


Delhi . 

Delhi Kishanganj 
Delhi Shahdara 
Delhi Safdarjung 
Denduhiri 
Deoband 
Deoria Sadar 
Detroj 
Deusana . 

Devakottai O.A, 
Devgad Baria 
Devlali . 

Dhampur 
Dhamtari 
Dhanbad 
Dhang 
Dhanushkodi 
Dharampur Punjab 
Dharamsala_Kotwali 
Dhariwal 
Dharmaj 
Dharmavaram 
Dharwar 
Dhatrigram 
Dhilwan . 

Dhit 0 , 

Dhoki . 

Dholka . 

Dholpur . 

Dhora 
Dhrangadra 
Dhubri . 

Dhubulia 
Dhulia ■ 

Dhulian Ganges 
Dhulkot . 

Dhuri 
Diamond Harbour 
Dibai . 
Dibrugarh 
Dibrugarh Ghat 
Didwane 
Digboi . 

Digha Ghat 
Dighwara 
Dildarnagar 
Dinaporc 
Dindigal . 
Dinnagar 
Dohad 
Dohna . 
Dongargarh 
Dondaiche 
Dorah 
Dornakal 
Dornachellam Jn. 
Drug 
Dubrajpur 
Duggirala 
Dumraon 


■1 


V60 0 o 


Bazar 


O.A. 


31 12 
60 0 
51 8 
36 4 

4 
4 
4 


35 
38 
33 
12 12 
60 O 
52 8 
6 8 
43 12 
37 « 
60 0 
74 12 
60 o 
29 8 
27 8 

42 12 
8 8 
60 o 
36 8 
31 12 
35 8 
60 o 
49 12 
40 8 

60 o 
9 
25 
19 
60 
60 
6 

60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
34 

4 * o 
41 8 

22 12 
28 o 
60 o 
34 o 
60 0 

53 4 
30 12 
60 o 
34 12 
33 o 
50 4 
7 12 
26 8 

39 o 


0 

o 

0 

o 

o 

0 

o 

o 

c 

o 

o 

0 

o 

0 

o 

o 

0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 

0 

o 

0 

0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 

0 

0 

o 

o 


Part IX — &sc. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1956 


695 


Place 

Destination Extra Destination 

per ton 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


D — contd. 


Rs. a. P. 


Rs. A. P. 


Durgapur 

Dwarapudi 


E 

Ekdil 
Elamanur 
Ellore (Eluru) . 
Erandol Road . 
Erinpura Road 
Emakulam Goods 
Erode 


F 

Faina ..... 
Faridabad .... 
Faridkot ..... 
Farukhabad .... 
Farukhnagar .... 
Fatehgarh .... 
Fatehpur .... 
Fazalganj Goods Depot (Ex. of 
Siding Charge) . 

Fazilka . . . . • 

Ferok ..... 
Fcrozepur Cantt. and City . 
Firozabad .... 
Fort Glostcr .... 
Fulia ..... 
Fyzabad ..... 

G 


Gadag 
Gadwal 
Gajroula Jn. 
Gandhidham 
Gandhinagar . 
Gancshganj 
Gangapur City 
Ganjam . 
Gannavaram . 
Garbcta . 

Garh Dhenkanal 
Garmukhtesar . 
Garhshankar . 
Garhwa Road . 
Garividi , 
Gauhati . 

Gaya 
Ghaggar . 
Ghanauli 
Ghataprabha . 
Ghatkopar 
Ghatsila • 
Ghaziabad 
Ghazipur City . 
Ghorpuri 
Gholeshapur . 


6 8o 

Gidni 



780 

3 6 12 o 

Giridih . 



9 12 0 

Goalpara 



. 60 0 0 


Gobardanga 



680 


Gobindgarh 



. 60 0 0 


Godhra . 



• 30 0 0 

6o o o 

Goilkcra . 



880 

24 0 0 

Gokak Road 



• 34 0 0 

31 4 0 

Golagokaran Nath 



. 60 0 0 

29 0 0 

Golden Rock . 



• 23 4 0 

45 12 0 

Gomia . 



■ IO 8 0 

41 0 0 

Gomoh . 



840 

25 8 0 

Gondal . 



• 47 0 0 

Gondia . 



■ 55 4 0 


Gooty 



■ 27 0 0 


Gorakhpur 



• 51 12 0 


Goraya . 



. 60 0 0 

46 8 0 

Goribidnur 



. 28 8 0 

60 0 0 

Gorutnahlsani . 



6 12 0 

60 0 0 

Goshainganj 



. 49 0 0 

60 0 0 

Govindnagar 



■ 55 0 0 

60 0 0 

Gubbi 



. 29 0 0 

60 0 0 

Gudivada 



■ 31 0 0 

53 12 0 

Gudiyattam 



■ II 4 0 

Gudlavalleru . 



. 31 12 0 

57 4 0 

Gudur 



. 10 8 0 

60 0 0 

Gulbarga 



• 35 0 0 

39 12 0 

Guledgud Road 



- 40 12 0 

60 a 0 

Guna 



. 60 0 0 

60 0 0 

Guntakal 



. 28 8 0 

5 0 0 

Guntur . 



27 8 0 

800 

Gunupur 



. 46 12 0 

51 0 0 

Gurdaspur 



. 60 0 0 

Gurgaon 



. 60 0 0 


Guxup . 



. 6 12 0 


Guskara . 



. 980 

39 8 0 
38 4 0 

Gwalior . 



. 60 0 0 

60 0 0 





54 4 0 
60 0 0 


H 



60 0 0 
60 0 0 

Habra 



5 12 0 

35 8 0 

Hagari . 

. 


. 31 4 0 

29 0 0 

Hagaribommanahalli 


• 37 4 0 

12 8 0 

Haibargaon 



■ 60 0 0 

29 4 0 

60 0 0 

Haiipur . 
Haldibarl 



• 39 13 0 

. 51 12 0 

60 0 0 

Haldwanl 



. 60 0 0 

26 8 0 

Halishahr 



5 12 0 

46 8 0 

Halol . 



. 29 0 0 

60 0 0 

Hamira . 



. 60 0 0 

17 12 0 

Hamirpur Road 



• 59 8 0 

60 0 0 

Hansi 



. 60 0 0 

60 0 0 

Hanumangarh 



. 60 0 0 

33 12 0 

Hapur 



. 60 0 0 

5 0 0 

Hardoi . 



60 0 0 

540 

Hardua . 



. 60 0 0 

60 0 0 

Hargaon . 



. 60 0 0 

46 4 0 

Harduaganj 



. 60 0 0 

13 12 0 

Hardwar 



. 60 0 0 

800 

Haridaspur 



0 

0 

■'1- 

c* 


uv 




Il- 


ia, 





Place 




Place 


Destination 

Extra 


Destination 


Extra 


per ton 



per ton 





Rs. A. 

P. 

H — contd. 



Jais 


51 0 

0 


Rs. A. 

P , 

Jaithari 


49 12 

0 

Harihar .... 

. 42 0 

0 

Jaitu 


60 0 

0 

Harinagar 

. 49 0 

0 

J ait ware . 


55 4 

0 

Hamhalii 

. 40 4 

0 

Jaipur Keonjhar Rd. 


22 4 

0 

Harpalpur 

. 60 0 

0 

Jakkalacheruvu 


26 4 

0 

Hasan .... 

• 35 12 

0 

jakpur 


9 4 

0 

Hasimara 

. 49 0 

0 

Jalarpet 


15 0 

0 

Hathras Jn. 

. 60 0 

0 

Jaleswar 


12 12 

0 

Hathras Kilah . 

. 60 0 

0 

Talgson 


27 4 

0 

Hathua .... 

. 46 8 

0 

Talna 


28 12 

0 

Hatkanangale . 

' 31 i 

0 

Jalor 


58 8 

0 

Haur .... 

• 7 8 

O' 

Jalpaiguri 


50 4 

0 

Ilaverl .... 

■ 45 0 

0 

Jamalpur 


17 4 

0 

Hazarat Nizamuddin 

. 60 0 

0 

Jamga 

Jamkhandi O. A. 


35 4 

0- 

Hazaribagh Road 

. 10 4 

0 


44 8 

0 

Hetampur 

. 60 0 

0 

Tamnagnr . 


49 4 

0 

Himgir .... 

. 20 0 

0 

J&mooce . 


15 0 

0> 

Himmatnagar . 

. 36 12 

0 

Tamtara 


5 8 

0‘ 

Hindaun City . 

. 60 0 

0 

Tarnuniatand 


20 8 

0 

Hindumalkot . 

. 60 0 

0 

Jamuria . 


6 12 

0 

Hindupurjn. . 

. 29 12 

0 

Janghai Jn. 


44 12 

0 

Hingou (Deccan) 

. 40 8 

0 

Jangipur Road . 


17 4 

0 

Hiraagarh 

- 59 J 

0 

Jaora 


42 0 

0 

Hissar .... 

. 60 0 

0 

Japla 


25 0 

0 

Holalkere 

. 38 8 

0 

jaraikela . 


to 4 

0 

Hole Alur 

. 41 12 

0 

Jargaon 


60 0 

0 

Hooghly .... 

■ 5 12 

0 

Jaswantnagar . 


60 0 

0 

Hoshangabad - 

- 45 4 

0 

Jaunpur Jn. 


44 4 

0 

Hoshiarpur 

. 60 0 

0 

Jawalamukhi Road 


60 0 

a 

Hospet .... 

■ 35 4 

0 

Jawalapur . 


60 0 

0 

Hotgi .... 

• 30 0 

0 

Jayasingpur 

Jchanabad 


30 0 

0 

Hubli .... 

• 42 4 

0 


21 8 

0 

Humma .... 

■ 35 0 

0 

Jctpur 


49 4 

0 

Hussainiwala . 

. 60 0 

0 

Jeur 


22 8 

0 

Hyderabad (Dcccan) 

. 46 8 

0 

Jhagadia . 


23 0 

0 



Jhajha 


9 12 

0 




Jhalana (Gandhinagar) 


60 0 

0 

I 



Jhalawar Road . 


49 0 

0 




Jhansi 


60 0 

0 

lb .... 

• 32 12 

0 

Jhantipahari 


17 0 

a 

Ichapur • ■ 

Ichchapuram (Ganjam) 

• 5 5 

0 

Jhargram . 


8 8 

0 

. 38 0 

0 

Tharta 


8 12 

0 

Idar .... 

• 3S 4 

0 

Jharradih . 


24 8 

0 

Idgah (Agra) . 

Ikfehra .... 

. 60 0 

54 12 

0 

0 

Jharsuguda 

Jhinjhak . 


18 0 
59 8 

0 

0 

Imphal O. A. . 

Indore .... 

. 127 8 

0 

Jhinkpani . 


7 « 

0 

. 42 8 

0 

Jhunjnunu 


60 0 

0 

Indrabil . 

. 17 12 

0 

Tiaganj 

Jodhpur , 


14 0 

0 

Indupallc 

. 30 0 

0 


JJ 4 

a 

Ingur .... 
Iqbalpur .... 

26 12 

0 

Jorhat Town 


60 0 

0 

. 60 0 

0 

Jubbuipore 

Juhi (Kanpur) . 


56 8 

o- 

Itarsi .... 

■ 44 4 

0 


57 4 

a 

Itwari (Nagpur) 

. 48 12 

0 

Jukehi 


59 4 

0 

Izatnagar 

. 60 0 

0 

Jullundur , , T . 

Jullundur Cantt. J . 


60 0 

0 




Junagadh . 


50 4 

a 

J 



jutogh 


60 0 

0 

Jadcharla 

■ 43 4 

0 

K 




Jagadhri .... 

. 60 0 

0 





Tagannadhapuram 

■ 36 8 

0 

Kacheguda 


46 12 

0 

Jagraon .... 

. 60 0 

0 

Kadakavur 

* * 

46 13 

0 

Jaipur S. & W. . . 

. 60 0 

0 

Kadambur 

• 

37 4 

O 


II - S **^]. T1 


r OF- INDIA, MAY, 12, ISM^p 


Destination 


Place Extra 
per ton 


Destination 


Place Extra 
per ton 


Rs. a. P. 


K — emtd, 

Kaday anallur 
Kadiam 
Kadlrl 
Kadur 
Kaikalur 
Kaipadar Road , 

Kajthal 
Kala Ak har 
Kalahasti . 

Kalai Kundah . 
Kalasapakka 
Kalikiri 
Kalipahari . 

Kaliyaganj 
Kalka 

Kallayi , , 

Kallldaikurlchi . 

Kalol 

Kalyan , \ 

Kalyani , ’ 

Kamaredl . . j 

Kamarhatty Siding 
Kampookothl . 

Kamptee . 

Kancharapara . 

Kandaghat 

Kandhla , , ' 

Kandivlec (same as Borivli) 
Kandla . 

Randla Bunder. 

Kandra 
Kanhan 
Kanhangad 
Kankarla 
Kanklnara 

Kanpur Central (Goo< 
Kanpur Juhl) 

Kantabanji 
Kanth 
Kapadvanj 
Kapasin 
Kapren 

Kapurthala \ \ 

Karad 
Karaikkal . 

Karalkkudl 

Karamsad . \ 

Kararl , . ] 

Karengi , 

Karlavalamandallur 

Karkely . , ’ 

Karkend . . ’ 

Karkheli . , " 

Karmad . ! * 

Kamal 
Karur 

Kartarpur . \ 

Karwandia . ' 

Kasarngod , 

Kasbc Sukcne . 

Kasganj city . ' 


ds Shed & 


39 4 o 

36 8 0 
23 4 o 

35 8 0 

32 8 o 
29 8 o 
60 O 0 

45 12 o 
12 o 0 

980 
14 8 o 
17 0 o 
580 

36 4 o 
60 0 0 

40 4 0 

41 0 o 

33 8 o 

640 
o o 

46 0 0 

■5 4 0 

60 o o 

50 4 0 

5 12 O 
60 O O 
fiO O O 
5 4 0 

54 12 o 

54 12 o 
1800 
40 4 0 

48 o o 
32 o o 

5 4 0 

57 4 o 

56 8 o 
60 o o 
32 4 o 

51 8 o 

55 0 0 
60 o o 

25 o 0 
21 4 o 

27 12 0 

28 8 0 
60 o o 
60 o o 

37 8 o 

55 o o 
19 12 o 

40 12 o 

26 8 0 
60 o o 

27 8 o 
60 0 o 
34 12 o 

49 0 o 
15 o 0 
60 o 0 

41 12 O 


Kashipur , 

Katahri 
Katakhal . 

Kateri Road 
Kathgodam 
Kathlal . ] 

Kathihar . 

Katni Marwara . 
Katol 

Katosan Road \ 

Katpadi . 

Katrasgarh ‘ 

Katwa 

Kauli 

Kavali 

Kazipet . 

Kclod . I 

Keolarec . * 

Kesarpura . 

Keshod 

Kesinga 

Khachraud 

Kbaga 
Khagaria , 

Khairthal . 

Khalarih 

Khamaria Sub Depot 
of siding charge) 
Khamgaon 

Khammameth 
Khana Jn. ' 
Khanapur . 

Khandwa . 

Khana 

Khanyan . ] 

Khaperkheda ' 
Kharaghoda 
Khardaha . 

Khardi . 

Khargpur . 

Khariar Road ' 
Kharida Siding ! 
Khari Rohar Road 
Kharkhauda 
Kharsalia . ' 

Kharsia . 

Khatema . 

Khedbrahma 

Khcrli 

Khirsadoh Jn. 

Khori 

Khurda Road .' 
Khurdpur 
Khurja City 
Khurja Jn. 
Kilakadaiyam , 

Kjlle 

Kiratpur Sahib . 
Kirkec 

Kirloskarvadi 

Kishanganj 

Kishangarh . , 

Kistna Canal 


Disding Ex 


Rb. a. p. 


60 0 0 
48 12 o 
60 0 0 
44 00 
60 00 

31 4 O 

31 4 o- 
58 o o- 
52 o o 
35 12 0- 
9 12 O- 
9 4 ° 

II 0 o 

60 o o 
15 8 o. 
39 8 o 
52 o O 
60 0 O 
48 0 0 

J2 4 O 
58 8 o 
41 4 0 

52 4 o 

37 o O 
60 O o 
15 o o 

56 8 o- 

34 4 o 
33 12 O 

880 
37 12 o 

35 4 0 

60 0 0 
680 
51 o o 

37 0 o 
500 
940. 


10 o o 

54 8 o 

60 0 o 
29 12 0 
24 4 O 

60 0 o 
39 12 o 
60 o 0 

57 o 0 
60 o Cl 
29 o o 
60 0 o 
60 o o 
60 o o 
41 0 o 
16 g o 
60 o o 
13 0 o. 
27 4 o 
37 o o 

58 0 o 
27 8 o 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1956 


[Part II — Sec. 8 


698 


Destination Place Extra Place Extra 




per ton 


Destination 



per ton 



Rs, 

A. 

P. 




Rs. 

A. 

P. 

K — contd. 




Lalgola Ghat 



16 

0 

0 

Kivalur 





Lalitpur 



58 

4 

0 


. 22 

4 

O 

Lallaguda Siding Ex. 

of Siding 



Kodaikanal Road 


■ 29 

4 

0 

Charges 



46 

0 

0 

Koduru .... 
Kolaghat Goods Siding 

. 12 
. 6 

8 

8 

0 

0 

I^llgarh . 
Lankalakoderu . 



60 

35 

0 

8 

0 

0 

Kolar 


. 20 

8 

0 

Lapanga . 



33 

4 

0 

Kolhapur 


• 32 

4 

0 

Lasalgaon 



16 

4 

0 

Kollur Road 


. 26 

12 

0 

Latehar 



20 

8 

0 

Kondapuram 


. 22 

8 

0 

Latur 



35 

8 

0 

Konnagar . 


J 

4 

0 

Layabad . 



8 

0 

0 

Kopargaon 


. 20 

4 

0 

Limbodra 



35 

4 

0 

Koraput Dist. O.A. 


■ 90 

12 

0 

Linch 



36 

8 

0 

Koregaon . 


. 22 

4 

0 

Lodhikhera 



52 

12 

0 

Kosamba . 


. 20 

4 

0 

Lodra 



35 

8 

0 

Kosi Kalan 


. 60 

0 

0 

Lohardaga 



30 

12 

0 

Kotah 

■ * 

■ 53 

4 

0 

Lonand 



19 

4 

0 

Kotdwara . 


. 60 

0 

0 

Londa Jn, 



39 

8 

0 

Kothgangad 

9 

. 36 

8 

0 

Lower Halflong 



60 

0 

0 

Kotma 

« * 

• 52 

0 

0 

Luckeeserai Jn. 



14 

12 

0 

Kottarakara 


• 43 

12 

0 

Lucknow . 



56 

4 

0 

Kottavalasa 


• 47 

12 

0 

Ludhiana . 



60 

0 

0 

Kottur . 


• 38 

8 

0 

Lumding , 



60 

0 

0 

Kovilpatti 


■ 3 <S 

4 

0 

Lunavada . 



33 

0 

0 

Kovvur 


• 35 

8 

0 







Krishnagar City 


. 8 

12 

0 

M 






Kri shnarajanagar 


• 34 

4 

0 







Krishnarajapuram 


. 22 

12 

0 

Machada . 

. 


6 

4 

0 

Kuberpur . 


. 60 

0 

0 

Macherla . 

, 


35 

0 

0 

Kuchman Road . 


. 60 

0 

0 

Madanapalle Road 

. 


18 

12 

0 

Kudatini . 


• 33 

0 

0 

Madanapalle Town 0*A. . 


24 

4 

0 

Kudchi 


• 31 

8 

0 

Madan Mahal . 



56 

4 

0 

Kudra 


• 36 

8 

0 

Maddlkera 



29 

12 

0 

Kuldiha . 


. 7 

4 

0 

Madhavnagar 



28 

12 

0 

Kulhuria . 


■ 35 

12 

0 

Madhi 



20 

8 

0 

Kulti 



Nil 


Madhubani 



4 i 

4 

0 

Kumarbandh Halt Siding. . 

. 22 

4 

0 

Madhupur Jn. . 



7 

12 

0 

Kutnardhubl 


. 6 

0 

0 

Madras : 




Nil 


Kumbakonam . 

• • 

. 2t 

0 

0 

Beach . 





Kumbla , 

■ * 

. 49 

12 

0 

Egmore 




M 


Kulitalai . 

. ■ 

• 2; 

0 

0 

Pcrftmbur 






Kunch 

■ ■ 

. 60 

0 

0 

Rayapuram . 




J) 


Kund 

■ ♦ 

. 60 

0 

0 

Salt Cotaurs 




IJ 


Kunwar . 

. ■ 

• 5t 

4 

0 

Madukarai 



32 

0 

0 

Kuppam . 


• 17 

0 

0 

Madura 



3 i 

12 

0 

Kurduwadi , 


■ 24 

8 

0 

Madurantakam 



8 

0 

0 

Kurnool Town . 


■ 35 

12 

0 

Map Jn. 



6 

O 

0 

Kurscong . 


. 60 

0 

0 

Mahadanapuram 



25 

12 

0 

Kurukshetra 


. 60 

0 

0 

Maharajgan) 



45 

0 

0 

Kurumbur 


■ 4 i 

12 

0 

Mahbubnagar . 



42 

0 

0 

Kusunda Jn. 


. 8 

8 

0 

Maharajpur 



21 

4 

0 

Kuttalam . 


. 19 

12 

0 

Mshasamund 



5 i 

0 

0 

Kymore Siding Ex. of Siding charge 59 

4 

0 

Mahesh Khunt . 



39 

0 

0 






Mahesh Munda 



20 

12 

0 






Maholi 



60 

0 

0 






Mahudha . 



3° 

12 

0 

L 





Mahuva . 



5 i 

0 

0 






Maigalgan) 



60 

0 

0 






Maihar . 



57 

8 

0 

Lakherl . 


. 56 

8 

0 

Mainpuri . 



60 

0 

0 

Lagargawan 

Laheria Sara! , 
Lakhimpur Kherl 


. 56 12 

0 

Maltha 



58 

8 

0 

■ • 

. 28 

4 

0 

Makhakhad 



35 

8 

0 


• 60 

0 

0 

Makhu 



60 

0 

0 

Lakhtar . 

■ * 

. 37 

8 

0 

Makkajipalli 



29 

0 

0 

Lalganj . 

• • 

• 53 

4 

0 

Maksi 


• 

47 

8 

0 



Part II— die. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1950 699 


Destination 


Place extra 

Destination 



Place extra 




per ton. 





per 

ton. 




Rs. A. 

P. 





Rs. 

A. 

p. 

M. — contd. 





Mewa Nawada . 




60 

0 

0 

Mai Jn. . 



50 12 

0 

Mhcw 




47 

8 

0 

Malda Court 



36 12 

0 

Midnapore 




9 

8 

0 

Mallanwalakhas 



60 0 

0 

Minambakkam , 




5 

4 

0 

Malsar 



27 0 

0 

Miraj 




2Q 

8 

0 

Malerkotla 



60 0 

0 

Mirzapalli 




48 

0 

0 

Mallapur . 



41 0 

0 

Mirzapur 




43 

8 

0 

Manamadura 



31 4 

0 

Misamari . 




60 

0 

0 

Manaparai 



24 8 

0 

Mithapur 




56 

12 

0 

Mansherial 



45 4 

0 

Miyagam . 




24 

4 

0 

Mandapam 



36 4 

0 

Mobha Road 




26 

8 

0 

Mandavalli 



32 O 

0 

Modmagar 




60 

0 

0 

Mandawar Mahuwa Rd. 



60 0 

0 

Moga Tahsil 




60 

0 

0 

Mandi Dabwaii 



60 0 

0 

Moghalsarai 




40 

4 

0 

Mandi Govindgarh . 



60 0 

0 

Mohanlalganj 




55 

4 

0 

Mandla Fort 



60 0 

0 

Mokameh Ghat 




16 

8 

0 

Mandsaur 



44 8 

0 

Mokameh Tn. 




18 

4 

0 

Mandva . 



33 4 

0 

Mollagavalli 




29 

12 

0 

Mandya . 



29 12 

0 

Molisar 




60 

0 

0 

Manendragarh 



53 8 

0 

Mollarpur 

« 



14 

0 

0 

Mangalore 



5i 4 

0 

Mohammadabad Bidcr 



47 

12 

0 

Mangalgiri 



28 8 

0 

Mohol 




27 

8 

0 

Mangalpadi 



50 0 

0 

Mohuda . 




k 

4 

0 

Manganallur 



19 8 

0 

Monghyr . 




18 

0 

0 

Manaharpur 



9 8 

0 

Moradabad 




60 

0 

0 

Manipur Road . 



60 0 

0 

Morak 




5° 

0 

0 

Maniyachi . 



37 12 

0 

Morappur . 




18 

4 

0 

Manjeshwar 



50 4 

0 

Morar Road (Birlanagar) 



60 

0 

0 

Manmad . 



17 12 

0 

Morinda . 




60 

44 

0 

0 

Marmargudi 



23 12 

0 

Morvi 




4 

0 

Manoharabad 



40 12 

0 

Motibagh (Nagpur) 




48 

12 

0 

Mansa 



60 0 

0 

Mouhari . 




44 

8 

0 

Mantapampallc . 

Manwath Road 



15 8 

33 8 

0 

0 

Motipur . 

Mugma 

Muniuddinpur . 




41 

6 

8 

12 

0 

0 

Marikuppam 



20 0 

0 




60 

0 

0 

Mariyamannahalli 



36 4 

0 

Mukerian . 




60 

0 

0 

Markapur Road 



35 12 

0 

Mukhtiara Balwada 




40 

0 

0 

Maroli 



17 0 

0 

Muktapur 




26 

8 

0 

Marudur . 



24 12 

0 

Muktsar . 




60 

0 

0 

Marwarpalli 



51 12 

0 

Muli Road 




40 

4 

0 

Masaipet . 



48 12 

0 

Mulmaroda 




57 

12 

0 

Masulipatam 



32 12 

0 

Munirabad 




35 

8 

0 

Mathura . 



60 0 

0 

Muradnagar 




60 

0 

0 

Matmari . 



34 0 

0 

Muri Jn. . 




8 

8 

0 

Maula Ali. 



45 12 

0 

Murukkampuzha 




47 

8 

0 

Mau Rampur . . 



60 0 

0 

Mustabada 




28 

8 

0 

Mavli 



53 8 

0 

Muzaffarnagar 




60 

0 

0 

Mayanoor 



26 S 

0 

Muzaffarpur 




29 

4 

0 

Mayavaram 



19 4 

0 

Mysore 




32 

0 

0 

Me. Donalds Choultry 



23 4 

0 







Me. Cluskicganj 



17 12 

0 

N 







Meerut City 



60 0 

0 








Meghnagar 

Mahidpur Road 



35 12 
42 12 

0 

0 

Nabadwipdham 

Nabha 




9 

60 

8 

0 

0 

0 

Mchsana Jn. 



36 0 

0 

Nadiad 





4 

0 

Mehsi 



42 4 

0 

Nagaur . 




60 

0 

0 

Meja Road 



46 0 

0 

Nagbhir Jn. 




54 

12 

0 

Mcmari 



8 0 

0 

Nagda 




42 

0 


Meramandcli 



31 4 

0 

Nagina 




60 

0 

0 

Merta City 



59 8 

0 

Nagpur (Itwari) 




48 12 

0 

Merta Road 



59 8 

0 

Ngrakata 




45 

12 

0 

Mcttuguda Siding (Ex. of 

Siding 



Nagrota 




60 

0 


charge) . 

Mettupalaiyam . . 

; 


46 0 
33 0 

0 

0 

Nahur Siding (Ex. of Siding 
Charges.) 


5 

0 

0 

Mcturdam 

* 

* 

24 8 

0 

Naibali Jn. 

* 



5 

4 

0 



700 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1950 


[Par* 11— Sec. 3 


Destination Place extra Destination Place extra 

per ton per ton 

Rs. A. P. 


O. 


N. — eontd. 






Obedullaganj 





47 

O 

o 








Oblapuram 





32 

12 

0 








Okha 





57 

4 

0 

Naila 




49 

12 

0 

Ollur 





37 

12 

0 

Naimisharanya 




59 

12 

0 

Omalur . 





22 

12 

0 

Nainl Jn. 




47 

12 

0 

Ondagram 





14 

12 

0 

Nainltal O.A. . 




96 

4 

0 

Ondal 





5 

12 

0- 

Najibabad 




60 

0 

0 

Ongole . 





20 

0 

0 

Nakodar Jn. 




60 

0 

0 

Ottappalam 





35 

12 

o 

Naksalbari 




47 

0 

0 

Oyaria 





12 

4 

0 

Nalhati Jn. 




11 

12 

0 









Nalpur 




5 

O 

0 



P. 






Nalvar 




37 

12 

0 









Namli 




4 i 

0 

0 

Pachora . 





24 

4 

0 

Nancherla 




29 

0 

0 

Padugupadu 





12 

12 

0 

Nander 




37 

12 

0 

Paharpur 





15 

12 

a 

Nandol Dehgam 




33 

12 

0 

Pakala 





13 

12 

0 

Nandurbar 




27 

8 

0 

Pakur 





18 

0 

0 

Nandyal . 




36 12 

0 

Palakol . 





35 

12 

0 

Nangal Dam 




60 

0 

0 

Palamcottah 





39 

12 

0 

Nanjangud Town 




33 

0 

0 

Palana 





60 

0 

0 

Nannllam 




20 

8 

0 

Palanpur Jn. 





39 

4 

0 

Naraina 




59 

8 

0 

Palasa 





40 

12 

a 

Naranpura 




60 

0 

0 

Palayangadi 





45 

12 

0 

Narasaravupet 




30 

12 

0 

Palghar . 





8 

8 

a 

Narayanpeth Road 




37 

8 

0 

Palghat 





33 

12 

a 

Nardana . 




3t 

8 

0 

Palia 


• 



45 

8 

0 

Narnaul . 




60 

0 

0 

Palitana . 





46 

4 

0 

Narsapatnam Road 


. 


42 

4 

0 

Palni 





31 

8 

0 

Narasapur 




35 

S 

0 

Palwal 





60 

0 

a 

Narsingpur 




52 

8 

0 

Panagar 





7 

8 

a 

Narwana . 




60 

0 

0 

Panchkura 





7 

0 

0 

Nasik Road 




13 

0 

0 

Panchra . 





14 

12 

0 

Naairabad 




57 

12 

0 

Panda vapura 





3i 

4 

a 

Nathnagar. 




27 

4 

0 

Pandaveswar 





7 

8 

0 

Naupaaa . 




41 

12 

0 

Pandaul 





4 i 

0 

0 

Nautanwa 




55 

8 

0 

Pandharpur 





29 

4 

0 

Navgadh . 




48 

12 

0 

Pandooah 





7 

O 

0 

Navapur . 




24 

0 

0 

Pandu 





60 

0 

a 

Navlakhi . 




46 

8 

0 

Panipat . 





60 

0 

0 

Navsari 




16 

8 

0 

Panruti . 





12 

12 

0 

Nawadah . 




30 

12 

0 

Panyam . 





36 

4 

0 

Nawai Banaathali 




60 

0 

0 

Papanassam 





23 

0 

0 

Nawashahr-Doaba 




60 

0 

0 

Papplnisseri 





45 

0 

O' 

Ncemuch . 




47 

0 

0 

Parantij . 





35 

12 

0 

Nazira 




60 

0 

0 

Parbhani 





35 

0 

a 

Negapatam 




22 

12 

0 

Pardi 





13 

12 

0 

Nckonda . 




37 

4 

0 

Pariawan 





5° 

4 

0 

Nellikuppam 




14 

0 

0 

Parlakaimedi 





47 

12 

0 

Ncllimarla. 




47 

0 

0 

Parli 





34 

12 

0' 

Nellorc 




12 

8 

0 

Farvatipuram 





52 

0 

0 

Neyveli 




16 

8 

0 

Pasumalai 





32 

4 

0- 

Nlbkarori ■ 




60 

0 

0 

Pasur 





26 

12 

0 

Nidadavolu 




35 

0 

0 

Patalpani 





47 

12 

0 

Nidubrolu. 




24 

8 

^0 

Paths nkot 





60 

0 

0 

Nileshwar 




47 

8 

0 

Patharla 





60 

0 

0 

Nilokhed 




60 

0 

0 

Pathri 





60 

0 

0 

Nimdih 




5 

12 

0 

Patiala 

• 




60 

0 

0 

Nophad . 




15 

4 

0 

Patna City 

• 




21 

4 

0 

"Nira 




18 

12 

0 

Patna Ghat 

« 




31 

I 

0 

Nizamabad 




43 

8 

0 

Patna Jn. 

■ 




22 

0 

0 

Nuatvid 




30 

0 

0 

Patranga 

• 




53 

12 

0 


Rs. a. P. 


Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1950 


701 


Place Extra Place Extra 

Destination per ton Destination per ton 


Rs. a. p. Rs. A. P. 


p.- 

-contd. 





Q. 






Pattambi 



36 8 

O 

Quilon Jn. 




45 

0 

0 

Pattukkottal 



25 12 

O 







Pavurchutram . 



40 8 

0 


R. 






Payagpur 



60 0 

0 








Payyanur 



46 4 

0 

Radhanagar 




15 

8 

0 

Padapalli 



43 4 

0 

Radhanpur 




45 

0 

0 

Peepardahee 



58 8 

0 

Raebareili Jn. 




52 

8 

0 

Pendurti 



47 12 

0 

Rafiganj . 




32 

0 

0 

Pennadam 



16 4 

0 

Raganl 

Rahuri 




58 

12 

0 

Penukonda 



29 12 

0 




24 

4 

0 

Peralam 



20 0 

0 

Raibag 




32 

4 

0 

Peravurni 



27 4 

0 

Raigarh . 




22 

4 

0 

Perundurai 



26 8 

0 

Raika Bag Palace 




55 

4 

0 

Petlad 



29 8 

0 

Raipur Jn. 




48 

4 

0 

Pcttai 



39 12 

0 

Rairangpur 




7 

0 

0 

Phagwara 



60 0 

0 

Rajahmundry 




35 

12 

0 

Phaphaman 



47 8 

0 

Rajaka Saha9pur 




60 

0 

0 

Phaphund 
Phillaur . 



60 0 

0 

Rajapalaiyam 




36 

8 

0 



60 0 

0 

Raj Athgarh 
Rajbandh 




27 

4 

0 

Pbulera Jn. 



60 0 

0 




7 

0 

0 

Phulpur . 



46 0 

0 

Rajgan . 




17 

4 

0 

Phulwari Sharif 



34 ° 

0 

Rajgangpur 




13 

12 

0 

Phusro . 



21 4 

0 

Rajgarh . 




60 

0 

0 

Plardoba 



13 0 

0 

Raj ghat Narora 




60 

0 

0 

Pidugurala 



32 0 

0 

Rajkot Jn. 




45 

0 

0 

Pilamedu 



31 « 

0 

Raj Nandgaon 




5i 

12 

0 

Pilibhit 



60 0 

0 

Rajpipla . 




25 

8 

0 

Pilkhuwa 



60 0 

0 

Rajpura 




60 

0 

0 

Pongora . 



60 0 

0 

Rakha Mines 




5 

0 

0 

Pipariya 



47 12 

0 

Reman 




60 

0 

0 

Piper Road 



57 8 

0 

Ramavarappadu 




29 

4 

0 

Piplod 



32 0 

0 

Rambha . 




34 

4 

0 

Pithapuram 



39 0 

0 

Ramganj Mandi 




49 

12 

0 

Plassey 



u 0 

0 

Ramgarh Town 




25 

8 

0 

Podanur Jn. 



3i 4 

0 

Ramgtmdum 




44 

4 

0 

Pokaram 



60 0 

0 

Ramnad . 




34 

4 

0 

Pollachi . 



33 8 

0 

Ramnagar 




60 

0 

0 

Polur , 

Pondicherry 



14 0 

0 

Ramnagaram 




26 

8 

0 



14 0 

0 

Rampur Haut 




10 

12 

0 

Ponneri . 



5 4 

0 

Rampur . 




60 

0 

0 

Poodoor . 



38 0 

0 

Rampura Phul 




60 

0 

0 

Poona 



13 12 

0 

Ranaghat Jn. 




7 

4 

0 

Porbundar 



55 4 

0 

Ranchi . 




it 

12 

0 

Portonovo 



16 4 

0 

Ranchi Road 




12 

12 

0 

Pradhankhanta 



18 12 

p 

Rani 




47 

8 

0 

Pratapgarh Jn. 



47 J2 

0 

Ranibennur 




43 

8 

0 

Prayag . 



47 12 

0 

Raniganj 




5 

8 

0 

Puadukkottai 



25 8 

0 

Ranipet 




9 

4 

0 

Pugalur . 

Pulgaon . 



28 8 

0 

Rasulpur 




8 

8 

0 



43 8 

0 

Ratangarh 




60 

0 

0 

Puhcherla 



15 4 

0 

Ratlam . 




40 

0 

0 

Pullanbadi 



20 0 

0 

Ray 




28 

8 

0 

Punalur . 



42 8 

0 

Raya 




60 

0 

0 

Purbasthali 



9 8 

0 

Rayadrug 




34 

12 

0 

Puri 

Purli Vaijnath 



31 12 

38 0 

0 

0 

Rayaghada 

Rayalcheruvu 




54 

25 

0 

4 

0 

0 

Puma 



36 4 

0 

Razampeta 




14 

8 

0 

Purnea Jn. 



32 12 

0 

Rechni Road 




46 

4 

0 

Purulia , 



8 0 

0 

Rcengus 




60 

0 

0 

Puttur t 



9 4 

0 

Rcidganj 

• 



50 

12 

0 

van ur 


. 

14 8 

0 

Renewal 




60 

0 

0 



702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1050 


[Paht II — Sec. 3 


Destination 


Place Extra 

per ton Destination 


Place Extra 
per ton 





Rs. A. 

P. 


Rs. A. p. 

R. — contd. 




S .— ‘Corjtdt 


Renigunta 



9 12 

O 

Sanawad .... 

. 38 4 0 

Rcpalle . 



. 28 0 

O 

Sandila 

. 58 0 0 

Rewa 



. 60 0 

0 

Sangancr Town 

. 53 4 0 

Rewari Jn. 



. 60 0 

0 

Songat .... 

. 60 0 0 

Rishikesh 



. 60 0 

0 

Sangli .... 

29 12 0 

Rishra 



■ 5 4 

0 

Sangrana Sahib 

. 60 0 0 

Robertsgunj 



. 41 0 

0 

Sangrur . . 

Sankaranyinar Kovil 

. 60 0 0 

Rohanakalan 



. 60 0 

0 

. 38 0 0 

Rohtak . 



. 60 0 

0 

Sankaridrug . , 

. 24 4 0 

Roorkce . 



. 60 0 

0 

Sankrail 

500 

Rosa Jn. 



. 60 0 

0 

Sant Road . . 

. 31 8 0 

Rourkela 



11 12 

0 

Santaldih 

. 20 0 0 

Rukni 



18 0 

0 

Santipur .... 

880 

Rupar 



. 60 0 

0 

Santragachi Jn. 

500 

Rupaund 



■ 57 0 

0 

Saoner 

■ 5 i 4 0 

Rupnarainpur . 



■ 5 8 

0 

Sardarnagar 

. 50 8 0 

Rupra Road 



. 58 12 

0 

Sardarshahr 

. 60 0 0 

Rura 



. 58 12 

0 

Sareri .... 

. 54 8 0 

Ruseraghat 



■ 39 4 

0 

Sarmatand 

. 24 4 0 






Sama .... 

. 60 0 0 






Sarupathar 

. 60 0 0 






Sasaram .... 

. 23 12 0 


S. 




Satara Road 

. 21 8 0 






Satna .... 

■ 56 4 0 

Sabarmati Jn. . 



. 32 4 

0 

Sattanapalle . . . 

. 30 8 0 

Sabour . 



. 26 12 

0 

Satur .... 

• 35 4 0 

Sadulpur 



. 60 0 

0 

Saugor .... 

. 58 12 0 

Safdarganj 



. 55 0 

0 

Savalyapuram . . , 

. 32 4 0 

Sagara 



■ 43 4 

0 

Savan .... 

. 45 8 0 

Saharanpur Jn. 



. 60 0 

0 

Savarkundla . . , 

. 47 12 0 

Saharsa . 



• 39 8 

0 

Sawai Madhopur 

. 58 0 0 

Sahdol . 



. 52 8 

0 

Sayan .... 

■ 19 4 0 

Sahibgungo 



. 22 12 

0 

Scob Siding 

Nil 

Sahjanwa 



, 52 8 

0 

Secunderabad 

. 46 0 0 

Saidapet 



■ 5 4 

0 

Secunderabad Mint Siding 


Sailakhurd 



60 0 

0 

(Ex. of siding charge) 

. 46 0 0 

Sainthia . 



9 12 

0 

Senore .... 

. 50 12 0 

Sakaldiha 



. 41 0 

0 

Sendurai 

. 17 4 0 

Sakhigopal 



• 31 0 

0 

Seohara .... 

, 60 0 0 

Saikhoa Ghat 



. 60 0 

0 

Seoni .... 

. 59 0 0 

Sakhoti Tanda 



. 60 0 

0 

Seramporc 

. 5 4 0 

Sakhun . 



. 59 0 

0 

Sermadevi 

. 40 8 0 

Sakri 



48 0 

0 

Sevalia .... 

• 3 1 4 0 

Sakrigalighat . 



. 18 12 

0 

Shahabad 

. 36 8 0 

Sakti 

Saktigarh . 



. 25 0 

8 4 

0 

0 

Shahgani 

Shahgarh 

. 3b 8 0 
. 60 0 0 

Salboni . 



. 11 0 

0 

Shahjahanpur . . 

. 60 0 0 

Salem Jn. 



. 22 4 

0 

Shakarnagar 

. 44 0 0 

Salem Market . 



. 22 4 

0 

Shakurbasti 

. 60 0 0 

Saliamangalam 
Salouna . 



. 23 12 

■ 39 4 

0 

0 

Shamgarh 

Shamli .... 

. 46 8 0 

. 60 0 0 

Samalkot 



. 38 4 

0 

Shamnagar 

■ 5 4 0 

Samayanallur 



. 31 0 

0 

Shapur .... 

. 50 12 0 

Sambal Hatim Sara! . 


. 60 0 

0 

Shedbal .... 

. 30 12 0 

Sambalpur 



. 20 12 

0 

Sheikhpura 

. 28 8 0 

Samastipur 



. 26 4 

0 

Shencottah 

. 40 4 0 

Sambhar Lake 



. 60 0 

0 

Sheopurkalan . 

. 60 0 0 

Samalya . 



. 27 8 

0 

Sheoraphuli 

. 540 

Samnapur 



. 58 0 

0 

Shikara .... 

. 58 12 0 

Sanahwal 



. 60 0 

0 

Shikohabad 

. 60 0 0 

Sanapiratti 



■ 27 4 

0 

Shillong O.A. 

*. 100 0 0 

Sanatnagar 

* 


. 45 12 

0 

Shimoga Town 

■ 39 0 0 




Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1950 


703 


Destination 


Place Extra 
per ton. 


Place Extra 
Destination per ton 


Rs. A. P. 

S. — contd. 


Shirud . 




24 

0 

0 

Shiupur . 




41 

12 

0 

Shivpuri . 




60 

0 

0 

Shiyali . 




18 

0 

0 

Shohratgarh 




56 

4 

0 

Sholapur 




29 

4 

0 

Sholavandan 




30 

8 

0 

Sholinghur 




8 

4 

0 

Shoranur Jn. 




35 

12 

0 

Shri Amirgadh 




41 

« 

0 

Shujaulpur 




51 

12 

0 

Sibsagar Town 




60 

0 

0 

Siiua 

Sikkil 




9 

22 

4 

8 

0 

0 

Silaiman . 




32 

4 

0 

Silchar . 




60 

0 

0 

Simbhaoli 




60 

0 

0 

Siliguri . 




48 

8 

0 

Simhachallam . 




47 

12 

0 

Simla 




60 

0 

0 

Simri Bakhtyarpur 




39 

12 

0 

Sindhkhcda 




30 

12 

0 

Sindri Assisted Siding 



18 

12 

0 

Singanallur Goods 




30 

12 

0 

Singareni Collieries 




35 

12 

0 

Singapore Road 




54 

8 

0 

Singarayakonda 

SlnF Jn . 




17 

5 

12 

0 

0 

0 

Singur 




5 

4 

0 

Siratbu . 




50 

12 

0 

Sirhind . 




60 

0 

0 

Sirohi Road 




44 

0 

0 

Sirpur Kaghaznagar 




47 

12 

0 

Sirsa 




60 

0 

0 

Sirsimakhdumpur 




60 

0 

0 

Sitamarhl 




32 

8 

0 

Sitapur (Thomsonganj) 



60 

0 

0 

Sitarampur 




5 

8 

0 

Sivaganga 




3 ° 

0 

0 

Sivakasi . 




35 

0 

0 

Sodepore. 




5 

0 

0 

Soh 




37 

8 

0 

Sohwal . 




51 

12 

0 

Solan 




60 

0 

0 

Somanur 




29 

8 

0 

Sompeta . 




39 

0 

0 

Sonamukhi 




23 

8 

0 

Sonarpur 




5 

0 

0 

Sonder . 




57 

12 

0 

Sonegaon 




45 

12 

0 

Sonepat . 




60 

0 

0 

Soncpore 




39 

12 

0 

Sormagar 




23 

8 

0 

Sorath Vanthll 




5 i 

0 

0 

Soro 




17 

12 

0 

Sri Ganganagar 
Srikakulam Road 




60 

44 

0 

4 

0 

0 

Sri Madhopur 




60 

0 

0 

Srinivasapura 




22 

4 

0 

Srirangam 




21 

8 

0 

Srivalkuntam . 




41 

0 

0 


Rs. A. p. 


Srivilliputtur . 

# 

4 

■ 35 

12 

0 

Subzi Mandi . 



. 60 

0 

0 

Sukli 



• 53 

12 

0 

Sultangunge . 



■ 19 

0 

0 

Sultanpur 



- 49 

12 

a 

Sulur 



■ 3 ° 

0 

0 

Sunum . 



. 60 

0 

0 

Supaul . 



. 40 

0 

0 

Surajpur 



. 60 

0 

0 

Surat 



. 18 

4 

0 

Surendranagar 



■ 39 

0 

0 

Suri 

• 


. 9 

4 

0 


T 






Tadali 





5 ° 

0 

0 

Tadepalli 

, 




28 

4 

0 

Tadepallegudem 




33 

8 

O 

Tadpatrl 





24 

0 

O 

Takia 





54 

8 

O 

Talaiyiuthu 





39 

4 

a 

Talbahat 





59 

12 

0 

Talcher . 





3 i 

8 

0 

Talguppa 





43 

8 

a 

Talod . 





35 

o 

0 

Talwandi 





60 

0 

0 

Tanda Urmar 





60 

0 

0 

Tandur 





4 i 

12 

a 

Tanguturu 





18 

8 

0 

Tan) ore Jn. 





23 

4 

a 

Tanuku . 





35 

1 2 

0 

Tanur 





39 

0 

0 

Tapa 





60 

0 

<y 

Tapri 





60 

0 

0 

Tarakeswar 





6 

8 

0 

Tarana Road 





48 

0 

a 

Taraori . 





60 

0 

0 

Tari Ghat 





42 

4 

0 

Tarikere . 





37 

0 

0 

Tarntaran 





5 

0 

a 

Tatanagar 





Nil 


Tatisilwal 





25 

12 

a 

Teghra . 





35 

8 

0 

Tekkall 





42 

8 

0 

Telgi . 





37 

12 

0 

Telichcrry 





43 

12 

0 

Tenali Jn. 





25 

12 

0 

Tcni 





35 

12 

0 

Tetulmari 





18 

8 

0 

Tczpur Ghat 





60 

0 

0 

Thana 





5 

0 

0 

Tharsa , 





50 

12 

0 

Thasra . 





30 

8 

0 

Thawe . 





46 

12 

0 

Tilda 





46 

4 

0 

Tildanga 





20 

0 

0 


704 


THE G AZ ETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1856 


[Paht II — Sec. 3 


Place Extra 

Destination per ton. 





Rs, A. 

P, 

T — contd. 






Tilhar . 



60 

O 

0 

Timmanacherla 



28 

8 

0 

Tinsukia 



60 

0 

0 

Tinnevelly Jn. 



40 

0 

0 

Tiptur 



32 

0 

0 

Tirora 



5 

4 

0 

Tlrumangalam 



32 

3 

0 

Tirumayam 



5 

4 

0 

Tiruparankundram . 



32 

0 

0 

Tirupati East 



11 

4 

0 

Tirupattur 



ij 

4 

0 

Tiiuppur 



28 

8 

0 

Tirur 



38 

O 

0 

Tiruturaipundi 



23 

0 

0 

Tiiuvadamarudur 



20 

12 

0 

Tiruvalam 



9 

4 

0 

Tlruvannamalai 



15 

12 

0 

Tiruvarur 



21 

4 

0 

Tiruvennainallur Road 



12 

12 

0 

Tlndivanam 



10 

0 

0 

Titilagarh 



57 

12 

0 

Tittaghur 



5 

0 

0 

Tehana . 



60 

0 

0 

Topsi 



13 

12 

0 

Tranquebar 



20 

12 

0 

Trichinopoly Goods . 



22 

8 

0 

Trichur . 



36 

8 

0 

Trikarpur 



46 

8 

0 

Trivandrum Central 



48 

4 

0 

Trivellore 



6 

0 

0 

Trembay (Kurla Trombay Block 




Station) 


, 

6 

6 

0 

Tuggali . 



30 

12 

0 

Tumkut . 



28 

4 

0 

Tummalacheruvu 



32 

12 

0 

Tumsar Road 



53 

0 

0 

Tumsar Town 



53 

4 

0 

'Tundlajn. 



60 

0 

0 

Tungabhadra Dam . 
Tun! 



35 

4 i 

8 

0 

0 

0 

Tuticorin 



39 

12 

0 

“U” 






Udaigarh 



36 

4 

0 

Udaipur 



55 

3 

0 

Udgir 



43 

8 

0 

Udipi 



60 

0 

0 

Udumalpet 



33 

0 

0 

"Uijain 

TJkhra . 



44 

13 

12 

12 

0 

0 

'Uluberia 



5 

0 

0 

Ulundnrpet 



15 

0 

0 

Umaria . 



55 

8 

0 

TJmbargoan Road 



10 

12 

0 

Umrer . 



52 

4 

0 

TJmreth . 



29 

8 

0 

XJnao 



5 6 

8 

0 

Unchehra 



57 

0 

0 

Undi 



33 12 

0 

Unjalur . 



27 

8 

0 

Unjha 



37 

0 

0 

Utran 



18 

8 

0 

Uttukuli . 



27 12 

0 


Destination 


V 


Vaithisvarankotl 
Vanjipalaiyam . 
Vanyambadi . 

yasad Jn. 

Vavalpad 
Velapatnam 
Veldurti . 

Vcllanur . 

Vellore Cantt. . 
Venkatagiri 
Veraval Docks . 
Verka 

Vetapalemu 
Vijapur . 

Vikhroli . 

Vikravandi 

Vikramgod Alot 

Vilhipuram Jh. 

Vinukonda 

Viramgam Jn. 

Vikarabad 

Virarakkiyam 

Viravannallur 

Viravasarana , 

Virkudi 

Virudhunagar . 
Vishnupur . 
Vizagapatam Port 
Vizagapatam Town 
Vizianagram 
Vontimitta , 
Vrinddachalam 
Vyara 


W 


Walajah Road . 
Waltair . 
Wanapard Road 
Wangapali 
Wankner Jn. . 
Wansjalia, 
Warangal 
Wara Sconi 
Wardha Jn. 
Warora . 

Warsa 

Warsaliaganj , 
Wellington 
West Hill 
White Field . 


Place Extra 
per ton 


Rs. a. p. 


18 4 o 

. 29 o o 

. 14 0 o 

12 8 o 

. 27 4 0 

. 18 4 o 

• 45 0 o 

. 34 4 o 

. . 25 o o 

. 11 0 0 

12 12 o 

. J4 8 o 

. 60 o 0 

. 22 4 0 

. 36 4 o 

. . 500 

11 o 0 

. 44 0 0 

11 12 0 

. . 32 12 0 

• 35 o 0 

. . 42 12 0 

. 26 12 O 

. 40 12 O 

• 35 8 o 

. . 20 12 0 

. ■ 33 8 0 

. 14 o o 

. . 46 o o 

. . 46 0 0 

, 46 12 o 

. . 16 o 0 

. 15 0 0 

. 21 8 0 


9 4 0 

. 50 12 0 

. 39 8 0 
. 43 4 o 

. 42 12 o 

■ 53 8 0 

• 39 ° o 

. . 58 0 o 

. 44 12 0 

. 48 12 0 

. 56 8 o 
. 19 8 o 

■ 45 o 0 

. . 40 8 0 

. 22 o 0 


Part II^$ec, 3 ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 

12 , 1956 

705 

Destination 

Place Extra 
per ton 

Destination 


Place Extra 
per ton 






RS. A. P. 




Yeotmal 


. 44 4 0 

Y 



Yeraguntla 

. , 

. 20 4 0 


Rs. 

A. P. 

Yermaras 


. 36 12 0 

Yamuna Bridge (Agra) 

. . 6o 

0 0 

Ycsvantpur 


. 24 4 0 

Yedapatlc 

• 43 

8 o 




Yadgiri . 

. 38 

8 o 


Z 


Yedsi 

. 30 

12 0 




Yellamanchilll 

■ 43 

4 o 

Zafarabad Jn. 

' 

44 0 0 


Appendix II 

FREIGHT (PLACE EXTRAS) (FOR PIG IRON) 


The following Freight (Place Extras) are to be added over the base prices In 
respect of items under Schedule III, subject to the provisions of 'CONDITIONS 
FOR SALE' relevant thereto, for the respective rail-head: — 

FREIGHT (PLACE EXTRAS) LIST NO. 1 OF 1956 
PIG IRON 


Destination 



Place 
Extra per 
ton 

Destination 


Place 
Extra per 
ton 




Rs. A. p. 




Rs. A. 

P. 

A 





B 





Abohar 



36 0 

0 

Badampahar 



6 0 

0 

Adra 



4 0 

0 

Bagah 



23 4 

0 

Agarpara . 



4 4 

0 

Banga 



37 8 «o 

Agra City 



29 4 

0 

Bahraich 



26 12 

0 

Anmadgar 



35 12 

0 

Baheri 



30 0 

0 

Ahmedabad 



17 4 

0 

Banda 



25 4 

0 

Ahmcdnagar 



13 0 

0 

Bandcl 



4 8 

0 

Ajmer 



25 8 

0 

Bangalore City & Cantt. . 


13 0 

0 

Ajhai 



31 12 

0 

Bangrod 



19 12 

0 

Akbarpur 



22 4 

0 

Barara 



33 12 

0 

Akola 



18 4 

0 

Banner 



29 O 

0 

Akkelu Balu 



17 12 

0 

Bamagar . 



21 0 

0 

Allahabad 



22 4 

0 

Bama baman gaon 



34 0 

0 

Alleppey . 



29 12 

0 

Baroda 



14 12 

0 

Aligarh 



30 4 

0 

Baraset 



3 12 

0 

Allur Road 



8 8 

0 

Barsi Town 



15 4 

0 

Alwar 



30 0 

0 

Baghpat Road . 



34 4 

0 

Alwaye 



19 12 

0 

Baramati . 



12 12 

0 

Ambarnath 



4 12 

0 

Barabani . 



8 8 

0 

Amritsar 



38 0 

0 

Baregadi 



16 12 

0 

Ambala Cantt. 



34 0 

0 

Barham Ghat 



25 12 

O' 

Ambala City 



34 12 

0 

Barhni 



25 12 

0 

Amargoli 



20 8 

0 

Barhaj Bazar 



23 0 

0 

Amroha 



30 12 

0 

Barharwa 



9 4 

0 

Amausa . 



25 4 

0 

Bassi Fa than an . 



35 4 

a 

Amreli 



25 4 

0 

Baidvanathdham 



6 4 

0 

Anjhar 



24 12 

0 

Bareilli 



29 0 

0 

Annupnagar 



9 o 

0 

Balawali 



32 4 

0 

Anand 



15 8 

0 

Baraar 



II 12 

0 

Andhcri 



4 0 

0 

Bajhot 



3° 4 

0 

Anakapalle 



21 0 

0 

Banaras Cantt. . 



20 4 

0 

Arbelia 



7 4 

0 

Batanagar 



4 8 

o 

Arrah 



13 12 

0 

Barnala 



35 8 

0 

Arkonam 



5 o 

0 

Batala 



38 8 

0 

Arsikere 



17 8 

0 

Banbasa 



3° 4 

a 

Asansol 



4 4 

0 

Bawria 



4 0 

0 

Asarva 



17 4 

0 

Barabanki 



25 O 

0 

Aurangabad 



13 12 

0 

Baidyabati 



4 4 

0 

Azamgarh . 



23 0 

0 

Badshanagar 



25 12 

a 

Azamabad 



24 12 

0 

Barang 



15 0 

0 



jo 6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1066 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


Destination 

Place 

Destination 

Place 


Extra 


Extra 


per ton 


per ton 




Rs. 

A. 

P 



Rs. A. 

P. 

Bairagnia 


. 21 

0 

0 

Bilaspur . 


20 8 

0 

Basti 


■ 24 

8 

0 

Biljohpura 


30 0 

0 

Barwadl 


. 12 

2 

0 

Birmitrapur 


8 0 

0 

Bah ram 


. 27 

4 

0 

Biawan 


28 0 

0 

Barauni 


• 13 

4 

0 

Birsinghpur 


24 4 

0 

Batialpur 


. 23 

0 

0 

Bisra 


6 12 

6 

Baraduar , 


• 14 

0 

0 

Bobbili 


23 4 

0 

Barajamda 


. 6 

8 

0 

Bolpur 


7 0 

0 

Bankura . 


6 

O 

0 

Bodhan 


20 12 

0 

Bamra 


9 

4 

0 

Bombay . 


Nil 


Banjari 


. 21 

12 

0 

Central 


Nil 


Bally 


4 

4 

0 

Byculla 


Nil 


Barakar 


4 

4 

0 

Cranac Bunder, Dadar, Mahln,"| 



Barwadl 


12 

12 

0 

Matunga, Pare!, Sion, Wadala J- 

Nil 


Barkakana 


7 

0 

0 

Wadi Bunder. 

J 



Beawar 


. 24 

S 

0 





Bedl Bunder 


26 

8 

0 

Bongaon , 

, 

3 4 

0 

Bellary . , 


■ 17 

4 

0 

Bowringpet 

■ 

11 0 

0 

BtUIaghata . 


. (Siding 1 

Brindaban 

- 

29 12 

0 


Bellampalli 
Belanganij (Agra) 
Belapur 
Balgaun 
Beldanga . 

Belghuriah 

Berhampur (Ganjflm) 

Bettiah 

Bezwada 

Berhampur Court 
Bcgaxnabad (Alunit) 
Bcgusarai . 
Bhadrachelum 
Bhadravati 
Bhaga 
Bhavnagar (Terinus & 
Bharatpur 
Bhlnd 
Bhlwani . 

Bhopla 

Bhupal Sagar 
Bhusaval (CR) 
Bhaktlnagar 
Bhadrcswar Ghat 
Bhatni 
Bharinda . 

Bhagalpur 
Bhapitahl 
Bhojudlh 
Bhimavaram 
Bhurkunda 
Bhuktiarpur 
Bidhgaon 
Bijainagar 
Bijnor 
Bihta 
Bikaner 
Bikramganj 
Bilega 


Dock) 


charge to _ 

be collect- Broach , 
ed locally) Budge Budge 
Budaun 
Bulland Shar 
Bulsar 
Burdwan . 
Burhwal . 
Bumpur . 
Butari 
Buxar 
Burhanpur 


21 4 

29 8 
12 12 
18 12 

7 4 
f 4 

18 12 
21 12 
15 4 

8 o 
32 4 

18 4 
r 8 12 

19 4 
11 12 

21 12 

28 12 
32 12 

31 8 

22 4 

25 8 

15 12 

21 8 

4 5 

22 4 
34 12 
11 12 

21 o 

5 0 

17 12 
8 o 

11 4 

15 12 
25 o 

32 4 

18 4 

29 4 

22 0 
37 C 


10 12 
12 8 
4 4 
29 12 
3 1 8 
8 4 

6 12 
2; 8 
Nil 
37 8 
20 o 

17 o 


0 

Calcutta : 




0 

Beliaghata, Charakdanga, "1 




0 

Chitpur, Cossipore, Howrah, | 




0 

Taggarnath Ghat, K. P. Docks, | 




0 

Kadamtolla, Kalighat, Kulpl- | 




0 

ghat, Lilloosh, Meerbahar- y 

Nil. 


0 

ghat, Narkeldanga, Nlmtolla | 




0 

Ghat, Ramkrlshtopur, Sealdah 1 




0 

Shalimar, Strand Ware House, | 




0 

Salkia, Ultadanga, J 




0 

Calicut ..... 

i 9 

12 

0 

0 

Cambay ..... 

17 

4 

0 

0 

Campierganj .... 

24 

0 

0 

0 

Canning ..... 

4 

4 

0 

0 

Captaingunj .... 

23 

8 

0 

0 

Chandausi .... 

3 ® 

0 

0 

0 

Chakulia 

5 

0 

0 

0 

Chakia 

20 

12 

0 

0 

Chapra 

20 

8 

0 

0 

Chaibasa 

5 

0 

0 

0 

Chalisgaon .... 

12 

4 

0 

0 

Champion .... 

il 

8 

0 

0 

Chandigarh .... 

3 ? 

0 

0 

0 

Chanpatia .... 

22 

0 

0 

0 

Chakradharpur .... 

5 

0 

0 

0 

Chandll 

4 

0 

0 

0 

Chheharta .... 

38 

4 

0 




Part II — Sec. 3 ] 

THE GAZETTE 

OP INDIA, MAY 12 , IBM 

707 

Destination 

Place 

Destination 

Place 


Extra 


Extra 


per ton 


per ton 


C .-~contd- 




Rs. a. 

P. 




Rs. 

A. 

Fa 

Chicacole Road 




21 

0 

0 

Dhulkot . 



34 

4 

0 

Chiherii 




37 

4 

0 

Dhuri 



34 

12 

0 

Chingigarh 




25 

8 

0 

Dhrangardra 



21 

0 

0 

Chhitaini . 




24 

4 

0 

Diamond Harbour 



5 

4 

0 

Chitoor 




7 

S 

0 

Dlbai 



30 12 

0 

Chittaranian 




4 

4 

0 

Diksal 



II 

4 

0 

Chittaranjan Siding 




4 

8 

0 

Dildamagar 



20 

8 

0 

Clatterbukganj . 




29 

0 

0 

Dighaghat 



18 

O 

0 

Coconada Port . 




19 

8 

0 

Dinapur . 



12 

12 

0 

Cochin 




20 

4 

0 

Dohad 



l8 

O 

0 

Coimbatore 




l6 

12 

0 

Doiwala 



33 

12 

0 

■Colgong 




12 

0 

0 

Doraha 



35 

8 

0 

Cental Road 




6 

12 

0 

Dubrajpur 



5 

8 

0 

Cuddalore Jn. . 




H 

4 

0 

Durgapur . 



5 

O 

0 

Cuttack 




14 

i 

0 

Dwarka 



30 

12 

0 

Calicut 




19 

8 

0 







Cannancore 




21 

0 

0 

E 






Chakdaha . 




6 

0 

0 







Chinchwad 




7 

8 

0 

Ellichpur . 



21 

0 

0 

Chikmagalur O.A. 




3° 

8 

0 

Ellis-Bridgc 



17 

12 

0 

Chamrajamagar . 




18 

0 

0 

Ellore 



l6 

12 

0 

Chitaldrug 




20 

0 

0 

Ernakulam . 



20 

0 

0 

Chandanagorc . 




4 

4 

0 

Erode 



14 

0 

0 

Chintamoni 




l6 

4 

0 

Ettawa 


♦ 

27 

12 

0 

Chindwara 




25 

0 

0 







Chandisar (W. R.) 




19 

12 

0 







Chinchvad 




7 

8 

0 

F 






D 







Faridkote . , 

a 

. 

35 

8 

0 








Fatehpur , . 

. 

m 

24 

4 

0 

Dabra 




28 

0 

0 

Fazalganj Goods shed 


, 

25 

4 

0 

Dakhineswar Rail head Mill 

Sidina 



Fazalganj Goods siding 


» 

26 

0 

0 

No. 2 . 




4 

8 

0 

Ferozabad 


, 

29 

0 

0 

Dalmia Dadri . 




31 

0 

0 

Ferozepur 

. 

a 

35 

4 

0 

Dahnianagar 




i9 

4 

0 

Forbesganj 


a 

18 

12 

0 

X)almiapuram 




n 

4 

0 

Fort Gloster 


. 

4 

O 

0 

Dalsingsarai 




15 

4 

0 

Fuleswar . 


* 

4 

O 

0 

Daltottgunj 




12 

8 

0 

Furukhabad 



3° 

4 

0 

Dankaur 




31 

12 

0 

Furwa 


* 

17 

8 

0 

Danes 




7 

0 

0 

Fyzabad , . 



23 

8 

0 

Darbhanga 




17 

0 

0 







Daurala 




33 

4 

0 







Davangere 




20 

4 

0 

G 






Ejeoband . 




34 

0 

0 







Dhanbad 




5 

0 

0 

Gadag 



19 

12 

0 

Dehradun 




34 

4 

0 

Galsi 



6 

8 

0 

Dehri-on-Sone , 




12 

12 

0 

Gangadevi 



II 

0 

0 

Dehusu Road . 




7 

4 

0 

Ganj Basoda 



24 

0 

0 

Dehu Road 




7 

3 

0 

Ganj Dundwara 



29 

4 

0 

Delhi (old & new) 




31 

12 

0 

Garden Reach . 



5 

0 

0 

Delhi Shahdara 




32 

0 

0 

Garwa Road 



14 

12 

0 

Delhi Kishcnganj 




32 12 

0 

Gauribazar 



23 

O 

0 

Deoria Sadar 




24 

8 

0 

Gaya 



JO 

8 

0 

Desur 




19 

0 

0 

Ghat Kopar 



4 

0 

0 

Dhampur . 




31 

0 

0 

Ghat Sila 



4 

0 

0 

Dhanuskodi 




20 

4 

0 

Ghaziabad 



32 

4 

0 

Dharampur 




37 

12 

0 

Ghoreasahan 



21 

4 

0 

Dharewal , 




38 

12 

0 

Ghughli 



24 

O 

0 

Dhola 




23 

0 

0 

Golden Rock 



1 5 

O 

0 

Dholpur (State) 




29 

12 

0 

Gobindgarh 



34 12 

0 

Dhond 




10 

8 

0 

Goilkera 



6 

O 

0 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY1Z, 1&56 [Part II-Sec. S 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


G. — contd. 

Gola Gokarannath 

Gidni 

Giridih 

Gomoh 

Gondal 

Gorakhpur 

Goribidnur 

Gorumahisani 

Goraya 

Goroth . , 

Goy agate 
Gubbi 
Gulbarga 
Guntur 
Gurgaon . 
Gurudaspur 
Gwalior 


Habra 

Haldwani 

Halisahar 

Hamira 

Hapur 

Hardoi 

Hargaon . 

Harmagar 
Harihar 
Harkhna . 

Harpalpur 
Hasanpur Road . 
Hassan 
Hathna 

Hathraa Killa & City 

Hatkanangalc 

Hazaribagh Road 

Himgir 

Hingoli 

Hirapur Kulti . 

Hlndagarh 

Hisaar 

Holalkere 

Holenaraipur 

Hoogli 

Hoahlarpur 

Hospet 

Howbagh (Jabalpur) 
Hubli 

Hussainiwala 
Hyderabad (Deccan) 


lb 

Indore 

Ishapur 

Itola 

Itwari 

Izatnagar 


Rs. a. p. 

28 4 o 
5 4° 


Rs. a. p. 


6 

0 

O 

Jagadhri 





4 4 

34 0 

u 

0 

24 

12 

O 

Jagraon 





36 12 

a 

23 

8 

O 

Jananabad 





17 8 

0 

15 

8 

O 

Jaipur 





27 12 

0 

4 

12 

O 

Jaitu 





35 4 

0 

37 

0 

0 

Jajou 





30 0 

0 

22 

0 

0 

Jalesar Road 





29 12 

0 

16 

0 

0 

Jalgaon 





15 0 

0 

16 

0 

0 

Jalna 





15 12 

0 

28 

0 

0 

Jamalpur 





10 4 

0 

15 

4 

0 

Jamiatand 





r3 0 

0 

30 

12 

0 

Jamnagar 





26 8 

0 

36 

12 

0 

Jamatra 





4 4 

0 

28 

12 

0 

Jamuria 





8 12 

0 




Jaora 





20 4 

0 




Japla 





13 12 

0 




Jaraikela 





6 4 

0 




Jarwai Road 





26 8 

0 

4 

4 

0 

Jaunpur . 





21 4 

0 

30 

12 

0 

Jeonathpur (ER) 




21 0 

0 

4 

8 

0 

Jhajha 





7 0 

0 

37 

4 

0 

Jhansi 





26 12 

0 

32 

0 

0 

Jhargram 





6 0 

0 

2fi 

8 

0 

Jharradih 





13 8 

0 

27 

8 

0 

Jharsuguda 





10 8 

0 

22 

8 

0 

Jhinkpani 





S 4 

0 

20 

8 

0 

Jodhpur . 



, 

, 

24 12 

0 

22 

0 

0 

Jogbani 





19 0 

0 

28 

4 

0 

Tomtcpura 





38 8 

0- 

29 

12 

0 

Joravarnagar 





20 12 

O' 

18 

4 

0 

Jubbulporc 





24 12 

0 

21 

12 

0 

Juhi 





25 8 

0 

30 

0 

0 

Jukehi 





26 8 

0 

IS 

12 

0 

Jullundur - 





37 0 

0 

6 

8 

0 

Jumna Bridge 





29 8 

0 

11 

8 

0 

Junagadh . 





27 4 

0 

19 

12 

0 








Nil 



K 






24 

0 

0 








32 

4 

0 

Kachcguda 





22 0 

0 

19 

4 

0 

Kadi 





24 0 

0 

18 

12 

0 

Kadur 





18 4 

0‘ 

4 

8 

0 

Kaithal 





34 0 

O' 

37 

0 

0 

Kallipahari 





4 4 

0 

18 

4 

0 

Kalka 





35 4 

o- 

25 

8 

0 

Kalol 





18 0 

0 

20 

8 

0 

Kalyan 





4 8 

0 

3*5 

4 

0 

Kampookothi 





28 12 

0 

21 

8 

0 

Karri ptee . 





22 8 

o* 




Kanchrapara 





4 4 

0 




Kanban 





2 8 

0 




Kanhcgaon 





12 0 

0 




Kaiganj 





28 8 

<y 

17 

4 

0 

Kankaria . 





17 4 

0 

22 

0 

0 

Kankinara 





4 4 

0 

4 

4 

0 

Kanpur 





25 t 

0 

14 

0 

0 

Kapurthola 





37 4 

0 

22 

4 

0 

Kararn8ad . 





15 12 

0 



709 


Pabt II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12,1956 


Destination Place Destination 

Extra 
per ton 


Place 
Extra 
pet ton 


Karad 
Karera 
Karkenda , 

Karnal 

Kartarpur 

Kashi 

Kashipur . (ORR) 

Kashimbazar 

Katihar 

Kathunanagal’ - 
Kathgodam . , . 
Kathkuyiyan 

Katni 

Katrasagarh 

Keslnga 

Khada 

Khagaria . 

Khagraghat Road 

Khalari 

Khalaria 

Khamameth 

Khana Jn. 

Khandwa . 

Khanna 

Khanoodi . 

Khargodha 

Kharsia 

Khatauli . 

Kharagpur 

Khardia siding • 

Khekra 

Khirsadoh 

Khodiar 

Khopoli . 

Khudagan) 

Khurda Road 

Khurja 

Kiccha 

Kirkcc 

Kirloskarvadi 

Kishangarh 

Kishanganj 

Kistna Canal 

Koilpatti . 

Kolar 

Kolhapur . 

Konnagar . 

Kopergaon 

Kosi Kalan 

Kotkapura 

Krishangar City 

Krishanarajanagar 

Kuldiha 

Kulti 

Kumardhubi 
Kumbakonani . 
Kundara 
Kurduvvadi 
Kurla 

Kurukhetra 
Kusunda , 


Rs 

A. 

p. 





RS. A. P. 




Kymore Siding (Jukehl) 



26 8 

0 

14 

0 

0 







24 

8 

0 


L 





11 

12 

0 

Laheriasarai 




16 12 

0 

33 

8 

0 

Lakhimpur Khcri 




27 12 

0 

37 

0 

0 

Lakhori 




25 4 

0 

20 

4 

0 

Lakshmiganj 




23 8 

0 

31 

8 

0 

Lalgolaghat 




9 4 

0 

8 

8 

0 

Lalkua 




30 0 

0 

16 

0 

0 

Latehar 




11 12 

0 

38 

4 

0 

Lharksar . 




32 8 

0 

3° 

12 

0 

Limbdi 




20 8 

0 

23 

0 

0 

Lohat Siding 




20 4 

0 

26 

4 

0 

Luckesarui 




28 12 

0 

5 

8 

0 

Ludhiana . 




36 0 

0 

26 

4 

0 

Lucknow . 




25 A 

0 

24 

4 

0 







19 

4 

0 


M 





8 

12 

0 







16 

4 

0 

Madanapalle 




10 12 

0 

8 

12 

0 

Madan Mahal . 




28 12 

0 

17 

4 

0 

Maddur 




IS 8 

0 

6 

4 

0 

Madhavanagar . 




15 12 

0 

18 

0 

0 

Madhubani 




20 4 

0 

35 

12 

0 

Madhupur 

7 

, 


5 8 

0 

12 

12 

0 

Madras 




Nil. 


18 

12 

0 

,> Beach . 




I 


13 

4 

0 

Egmore . 






33 

4 

0 

„ Perambur 




J Nil. 


6 

8 

0 

„ Royapuram 






7 

4 

0 

» Salt Cotaur 






33 

8 

0 

Madukarai 




17 0 

0 

25 

4 

0 

Ma*iura 




18 4 

0 

17 

8 

0 

Mahiuddinpur . 




32 8 

0 

6 

0 

0 

Maholi 




27 12 

0 

33 

0 

0 

Alahuva 




27 12 

0 

16 

0 

0 

Mainpun . 




29 4 

0 

3 1 

0 

0 

Mairwa 




21 0 

0 

30 

0 

0 

Majhowlia 




20 12 

0 

8 

0 

0 

Malcrkotla 




35 4 

0 

15 

0 

0 

Mandapam 




18 4 

0 

25 

12 

0 

Mandya 




16 0 

0 

18 

12 

0 

Mangalore 




23 4 

0 

15 

4 

0 

Mannarpur 




6 0 

0 

20 

0 

0 

Mankapur Ghat 




24 8 

0 

11 

12 

0 

Manniad . 




10 4 

0 

17 

4 

0 

Manpur Nagaria 




30 4 

0 

4 

4 

0 

Mansurpur 




33 4 

0 

11 

12 

0 

Murghcraita 




46 4 

0 

29 

12 

0 

Marhowrah 




21 0 

0 

35 

8 

0 

Marikuppam 




12 0 

0 

6 

0 

0 

Marmagaoa Harbour . 



28 8 

0 

17 

8 

0 

Marwar Palai 




24 0 

0 

5 

0 

0 

Masodha . 




23 8 

0 

Nil. 


McCluskieganj . 




10 4 

0 

4 

4 

0 

Mehsana 




18 12 

0 

14 

4 

0 

Meerut City 




32 8 

0 

20 

12 

0 

Mesulipatam 




17 8 

0 

13 

12 

0 

Mctuguda Siding 




21 8 

0 

3 

12 

0 





(excluding 

33 

12 

0 





siding 

it 

0 

0 





charge) 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


710 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1956 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 


Destination 


Place 
Extra 
per ton 






Rs, 

A. 

P. 




Rs. 

A. 

P. 

Mcturdam 




13 

8 

0 

Nellikuppam 



II 

0 

0 

Mettupalaiyam . 




17 

8 

0 

Nellimarla 



21 

12 

0 

Midnapur . 




6 

4 

0 

Nellore 



7 

8 

0- 

Miraj 




l6 

4 

0 

Nidadavolu 



17 

12 

0 

Miranpur Katra 




28 

4 

0 

Nilokheri . 



33 

8 

0 

Mirsapore . 




21 

O 

0 

Nimdhi 



4 

4 

0 

Mithapur . 




31 

O 

0 

Nirmali 



20 

12 

0 

Modinagar . 




32 

4 

0 

Nizamabad 



20 

12 

0 

Moga Tahsil 




37 

0 

0 

Nowrozabad 



48 

O 

0 

Moghal Sarai 




20 

0 

0 







Mohamadabad 




22 

0 

0 

0 






Moharajganj 




21 

4 

0 

Okha 



31 

12 

0 

Mohuda 




6 

O 

0 

Olavakkot Jn. (Ollur) . 



17 

8 

0 

Mokamch Gliat 




9 

8 

0 

Ondal 



4 

8 

0 

Monghyr . 




10 

8 

0 

Oorgaum . 



12 

0 

0 

Morana 




29 

12 

0 

Oral (C.R.) 



28 

12 

0 

Morar Road 




28 

12 

0 







Moradbad 




3° 

4 

0 

P 






Morinda . 




36 

0 

0 

Pachora 



13 

8 

O' 

Mortakka . 




19 

4 

0 

Paharpur . 



9 

4 

O' 

Mor'd 




23 

4 

0 

Pakur 



II 

0 

0 

Motihari 




21 

0 

0 

Pachrukhi . 



21 

4 

0 

Motipur . 




20 

4 

0 

Padrauna . 



23 

4 

0 

Mugma 




9 

12 

0 

Padugupadu 



7 

12 

0 

Muktapur . 




l6 

0 

0 

Palassey 



7 

12 

0 

Muland 




4 

0 

0 

Palwal 



30 

4 

0 

Munderwa. 




24 

4 

0 

Panagarh . 



5 

8 

0 

Muradnagar 




32 

4 

0 

Pandu via A.I.R.R. . 

, 

. 

28 

4 

0 

Muri 




6 

O 

0 

Panipat 



33 

0 

0 

Murshidabad 




8 

8 

0 

Parhh&ni . 



18 

0 

0 

Muttra 




28 

12 

0 

Parli 



17 

12 

0 

Muzaffaroagar . 




33 

8 

0 

Portabgar . 



22 

4 

0 

Muzaffarpur 




17 

4 

0 

Pathardih . 



II 

4 

0 

Mysore 




17 

\ 

0 

Patiala 



35 

12 

0 








Patna City 



12 

O 

0 








Patna Jn. . 



12 

8 

0 



N 





Periyanaickenpalayam . 



17 

4 

0 








Phagwara . 



36 

8 

0 

Nabadwipdham . 




6 

4 

0 

Pharenda . 



24 

4 

0 

Nadiad 




l6 

4 

0 

Phillaur 



36 

4 

0 

Nagpur 




22 

4 

0 

Phusre 



12 

8 

0 

Naihati 




4 

8 

0 

Pilamedu 



l6 

12 

0 

Nainl 




22 

4 

0 

Pilibhlt . 



28 

12 

0 








Pilitana 



25 

8 

0 








Pipli 



26 

8 

0 

Naihati . 




7 

4 

0 

Pipraich 



23 

12 

0 

Nalpur 




4 

0 

0 

Podanur 



16 

12 

0 

Nander 




19 

4 

0 

Pondichherry. 



II 

O 

0 

Nangaldam 




37 

0 

0 

Poona 



8 

4 

0 

Nangi 




4 

4 

0 

Porbandur 



29 

12 

0 

Nanjangud T, 




17 

8 

0 

Protapnagar 



15 

0 

0 

Narela 




33 

0 

0 

Purufia 



5 

4 

0 

Narkatiaganj 




22 

4 

0 

Puttur 



b 

8 

0 

Narnaul 




29 

4 

0 







Narsapatnam 




20 

4 

0 

Q 






Nasik Road 




8 

0 

0 







Nasirabad . 




25 

12 

0 

Quadian Muglan 


• 

39 

0 

0 

Nangachia 




20 

4 

0 

Quilon 



22 

8 

0 

Navasari . 




9 

12 

0 

R 






Nawabganj (Gonda) 




25 

12 

0 







Nawashahr Doaba 




37 

0 

0 

Radbanagar 



10 

4 

0 

Nazarbagh 




23 

4 

0 

Rai Bareily 



24 

0 

0 

Negapatam 




15 

4 

0 

Raigharh . 



12 

8 

0 



Part II — Bec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1950 


7 11 


Place Place 

Destination Extra Destination Extra 

pet ton per ton 




Rs. A. 

P. 




Rs. A. 

P. 

Rai-ka-Bag Palace 


. 24 8 

0 

Satara Road 



12 4 

0 

Raipur 


. 22 0 

0 

Saugor 



25 12 

0 

Rairangpur 


. 4 12 

0 

Satna 



24 8 

0 

Raja-ka-Shahaspur 


- 30 4 

0 

Sechara 



31 4 

0 

Rajamundry 


. 18 4 

0 

Secunderabad (Dn.) 



21 8 

0 

Rajbandh . 


5 o 

0 

Seethanagaram . 



23 8 

0 

Rajgangpur 

Rajkot Town 


. 8 4 

■ 23 12 

0 

0 

Sehore Cant 

Serampure. 



23 4 

4 4 

0 

0 

Rajkot Jn. 


. 24 12 

0 

Sevalia (Balasino) 



17 4 

0 

Rajnandgaon 


. 23 8 

0 

Sevan 



21 8 

0 

Rajola Jn. 


. 26 8 

0 

Shahbad . 



18 12 

0 

Rajpura 


• 35 0 

0 

Shahgunj . 



23 4 

0 

Rajula City 


■ 23 4 

0 

Shahpur Patori . 



19 0 

0 

Rakha Mines 


• 3 12 

0 

Shahjahanpur 



27 12 

0 

Ramkola . 


■ 23 4 

0 

Shakurbasti 



32 0 

0 

Ramanagaram 


■ 31 12 

0 

Shanili 



37 0 

0 

Rampur 


29 12 

0 

Shamnagar 



4 i 

0 

Rampurhat 


. 6 12 

0 

Shcdbal 



16 8 

0 

Ranaghat . 


* 5 8 

0 

Sheoraphuli 



4 0 

0 

Ranchi 


7 4 

0 

Shendurni 



14 12 

0 

Ranchi Road 


. 8 0 

0 

Shikohabad 



28 12 

0 

Raniganj . 


4 4 

0 

Shimoga Town . 



19 8 

0 

Ratlam 


20 0 

0 

Shewea-budih . 



12 0 

0 

Rayaghada 


. 24 0 

0 

Shiyali 



10 8 

0 

Raxaul 


21 12 

0 

Sliolapur . 



16 0 

0 

Rewari 


. 30 0 

0 

Shoramur . 



18 4 

0 

Rohtak 


. 32 8 

0 

Sidhpur 



19 8 

a 

Riga 


- J 5 8 

0 

Sidhwaliu . 



21 12 

0 

Rishra 


• 4 4 

0 

Sikar 



28 12 

a 

Robcrtsganj 


. 19 8 

0 

Siliguri 



28 4 

0 

Rohanakalan 


• 33 8 

0 

Simbhouli 



31 12 

a 

Roorkee . , 


■ 33 0 

0 

Simla Hills 



41 12 

0 

Rourkela . 


■ 7 8 

0 

Sindri Asstd. Siding . 



11 4 

a 

Rupnarainpur . 


• 4 4 

0 

Singanallur 



16 8 

0 





Sirhind 



35 12 

0 

S 




Sini 



3 12 

0 

Sabar Mmati 


• 17 4 

0 

Sirpur-kaghaznagar 



21 12 

0 

Sabzimandi 


■ 32 12 

0 

Sisva Bazar . . 



24 0 

0 

Sagauli 


. 21 4 

0 

Sitalpur 


. 

20 0 

0 

Sagara 


. 20 8 

0 

Sitamarhi . 


• 

8 4 

0 

Saharanpur 


• 33 4 

0 

Sitapur City & Sitapur Thomson- 



Sahjanwa . 


• 23 12 

0 

ganj Siding 



27 4 

a 

Saila Khurd 


• 37 8 

0 

Sitarampur 



4 4 

a 

Sainthia 


6 4 

0 

Sivakasi 



18 8 

a 

Sakhoti Tanda . 


• 33 0 

0 

Siwani 



32 12 

0 

Sakrigalighat 


. 6 4 

0 

Sodcpur 



4 4 

0 

Salem 


. 12 4 

0 

Solon 



39 0 

O' 

Sakti 


. 13 12 

0 

Sonc East Bank 



18 4 

0 

Samastipur 


. 16 0 

0 

Soncpat 



32 0 

0 

Sambalpur. 

Sambhar Lake , 


. ti 12 
. 27 0 

0 

0 

Shri Ganganagar 
Sultanganj 



34 0 
11 0 

0 

0 

Sampla 


■ 32 4 

0 

Sultanpur Lodi . 



37 8 

0 

Sanahwal . 


■ 35 12 

0 

Sunam 



34 4 

0 

Sagh 


16 8 

0 

Surajpur . 



36 0 

0 

Sangrur 


• 34 8 

0 

Sura Nussi 



37 0 

0 

Santipur 


. 6 0 

0 

Surat 



11 0 

0 

Santoshpur 


4 4 

0 

Shiupur 



20 4 

0 

Santragachi 


4 0 

0 






Sardarnagar 


. 23 4 

0 

T 





Sardarsahar 


• 32 4 

0 






Sasamusa . 


. 22 4 

0 

Tahsil Deoria 



22 12 

0 

Sasaram 


• 13 4 

0 

Talaiyuthu 



19 4 

0 

Sasni 


■ 30 4 

0 

Talamandi 



8 0 

0 



712 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, I960 


[Past II- — Sec. 3 


Destination 


Place extra 
per ton 


Destination Place extra 

per ton 



Rs. 

A. 

P. 


Rs. 

A. 

P. 

Talcher .... 

■ 17 

4 

0 

Uluberta .... 

4 

0 

0 

Tanuku .... 

. 18 

3 

0 

Umaria .... 

• 24 

8 

0 

Tapri .... 

■ 34 

12 

0 

Una .... 

• 32 

8 

0 

Taran Taran 

■ 37 

8 

0 

Unao .... 

• 25 

0 

0 

Tarikeri ... 

. 18 

12 

0 





Tatanagar . . 

Nil, 


V 




Thana-bhawan . 

■ 34 

4 

0 





Tikekarwadi 

. 16 

4 

0 

Vambori .... 

■ *’ 13 

12 

0 

Tindharia .... 

• 4 i 

12 

0 

Varkhodi (Varkhedi) . 

- i4 

12 

0 

Tinsukla .... 

■ 3*5 

8 

0 

Verka .... 

■ 38 

0 

0 

Tirurpurr .... 

- 15 

12 

0 

Vikhroli .... 

3 

12 

0 

Tiruvaru 

14 

8 

0 

Villivakkam 

4 

O 

0 

Ttagarh .... 

4 

4 

0 

Viragram .... 

. 18 

8 

0 

Titilgarh .... 

■ 2J 

8 

0 

Virudhunagar 

• 19 

0 

0 

Troposl .... 

8 

8 

0 

Vlshunpur 

8 

4 

0 

Trichoinopoly 

• 15 

4 

0 

Vishrambag 

. r6 

4 

0 

Trichur .... 

• 1 9 

0 

0 

Vishvamitn 

• x 4 

12 

0 

Trivendmm (Central) 

■ 23 

12 

0 

Vizagpattam (Port & Town) 

22 

4 

0 

Tugalakbabad 

■ 3i 

4 

0 

Vizianagrani 

. 22 

4 

0 

Tumkur 

■ 15 

4 

0 

Vyara .... 

12 

4 

0 

Tungabhodra Dam 

. 18 

8 

0 





Tuticorin 

21 

0 

0 

W 




U 




Wadwan .... 

- 19 

12 

0 





Walajabad 

6 

0 

0 

Udaipur 

26 

8 

0 

Waltergttnj 

• 24 

8 

0 

Udumalpet. 

. 18 

8 

0 

Wardah .... 

. 21 

0 

0 

. 




Warisaliganj 

. 16 

12 

0 





Warsanudi 

• 24 

8 

0 

Ugarkhurd 

. 16 

12 

0 





Ujhani 

■ 30 

0 

0 

Y 




Ujjain 

. 26 

8 

0 





Ukhra .... 

. 8 

12 

0 

YeBvantapur 

• 13 

8 

0 


APPENDIX HI 

EXTRAS LIST 

The following extras are to be added over the base prices for the Sections, qualities, etc, 
specified below : — 

A.— BARS, STRUCTURALS, PLATES, SHEETS, SEMIS & RAILS. 

A. Base Price Item No. i — Bars (Rounds and Squares below 3" and Flats upto and including 
5" wide)— 

Rate 


per ton. 
is. A. P. 


i. (i) Rounds and Squares 4" and below — 

1/2" 

7/16" 

3/8* 

5/16" 

i/4" 

3/16" 

11/32" 

(ii) Limit Bars (Rounds and Squares to half the tolerance prescribed in 

I.R.S.S.M. 6/34 and Hexagons to I.R.S.S.M. 5/40 over tested Base 
Price) . , . . 

(iii) Hexagon Bars ....... • ■ 


3 13 
35 ° 


35 

70 

85 

no 

28 


25 0 
37 8 


0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 





Pah* II- — &EC. - 3] THE GAZETTE ©F INDIA, MAY 12,19 56 713 


(iv) Half Round Bars (Over price of flats of same thickness and width) 


50 

0 0 

(v) Hexagon Bars to I.R.S.S. 3/38 

♦ 

• 

> 




33 

0 0 

(vi) Agrico Bars — 


* 



• -* 

- 

• 




(a) Extra for shape (Octagons) 

* 

• 

v 9 

• 


« 

6 

0 0 

(ft) Extra for High Carbon (-6/ 

7 per cent Carbon) . 

• 


■ 

90 

0 0 

2. Thin Flats — 












(Rate in Rupees per ton ) 











Thickness 





Width 

16— G. 

14 — G 12 — G 

10 — G 








or 

or 

or 

or 

3/16" 

l/4" 

5/i6" 

3/8" 

7/16" 

1/2* 


1/16" 

5/64" 

3/32" 

1/8' 







3/8" 




115 






. , 

1/2" 

. 180 

140 

ns 

no 

30 

25 

25 

25 



5/8' 


130 


no 

30 

25 

25 

25 



3/4" 

. 160 

120 

105 

100 

30 

25 

25 

25 

25 

25 

13/16" . 



. . 




. , 


2ft 

. f 

7/6' 

, 


, . 

100 

25 

25 

25 

2J 


25 

15/16" . 

* 

, , 


100 

25 

25 

25 

25 

25 

25 

1* . 

130 

us 

no 

60 

25 






i- 1/8' 

130 



60 

25 






!■ 1/4" 

120 

no 

80 

60 

25 






1-3/6" - - 



. . 

60 

2J 






1-1/2" 

. 120 

90 

60 

60 

25 






1-5/8' . 


. , 

. . 

60 

25 






1-3/4" - 

. 100 

70 

50 

35 

25 






1-7/S" - 

. 

, . 

. . 

35 

25 






2* , 

80 

60 

30 

35 

25 






2- 1/8" 

« 

. . 

, . 

35 

25 






2 • 1/4" • 

80 

60 

20 

35 

25 






2-378" • 

. 

, . 

. . 

35 

25 






2- 1/2" 

so 

50 

35 

35 

25 






3" . 

. • , 


, . 


. . 






3-1/8' 


. , 

, . 

n/,4 

7/6 






a ft 

4 

. 


* ■ 

111 4 



* 4 





2. A. Thin Flats — 

3/4" x 19/20 gauge 

1' x 18' 

3. Bevelled Flats — ...... 

i- 1/2'x 1* x 1/4' • 

2' x 1/4" Flats with top Round Edges 

B. Base Price Item No. 2 — Bars, Other Sizes — 

1. Rounds — 

3" to 5" 

6 " 

6- 1/2’ 

r 

8" 

2. Squares — 

3'> 3 ' i/ 8 *j 3-1/4", and 3-1/2" 


Rate 
per ton. 


Rs. A. P. 


225 0 0 
190 o 0 

10 o o 
10 o o 


13 12 o 
20 o o 
26 4 o 
33 12 ° 
46 4 o 


13 12 0 




714 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1030 


[Part H — Sec. $ 


B.— Base Price item No. 2 — Bars, Other Size*— contd. 


3. Large Flats (including R.E. Flats) — 

(i) Width 8* and over — 

(a) Thickness 1/2' and over 

(b) Thickness under 1/2' to 3/8' 

(.i c ) Thl.kness under 3/8' to J/16' 
t d) Thickness under j/16' to 1/4" 

(ii) Width over 3' and under 8' 

(a) Thickness 1/2' and over 

{b) Thickness under 1/2' to 3/8' 

(c) Thickness under 3/8' to 5/16' 
(a) Thickness under 5/16' to 1/4' 

C. — Base Price Item No. 3 — Structural — 


1. Joists — 

24' XT 1/2' 

22' X 7' 

20' X6-I/2' 

20' x6 t/4' 

18' x 6' 

4 ' 3 / 4 ' x 1-2/4" 
4' X3 x xolbs. 
4' x 2- 21/32* 

4' X 2' L. W. 
4' x r • 3/4' . 

3' x 1-1/2' . 

2. Channels — 


9-5 lbs 


Joist 


13' X 4' . 

12' x3-i/a' . 

10' x 4' , ■ 

10' X 3’ 1/2' . 

10 X3'. 

9* X3*i/2' . 

9' X 3 '. 

8' X 3' ■ 

7' x 3' 

6 ' X 3* 

5' X 2-1/2' . 

4' X 2' X 9 24 lbs. 
4' x 2'x 7'9i lbs. . 
4* x 2' X 7 09 lbs. 
4' X I • 3/8' . 

3' x 1 1/2' . 

T 1/4' x 1-3/8' . 
1* 1/2' x 1-1,4' ■ 


Rate per ton. 
Rb. a. p. 


3 12 0 
780 
1140 
13 12 0 

8 o 
12 o 
12 8 0 
16 4 o 



15 o 0 
II 4 o 
780 
780 
780 

13 0 O 
780 
780 
300 
15 O o 
. 15 o a 


780 
780 
780 
780 
780 
780 
780 
780 
780 
780 
n 4 o 
16 4 o 
10 4 o 

18 12 O 
18 O O 
22 8 O 

35 o o 
35 0 a 



G Base Price Item No. 3 — Structural® — contd. 


3. (a) Angles— (Rates at Rupees per ton.) 



Size 





1/2' 



7/16' 


3 / 8 - 



5/ 16' 

Ij 4 ' 

3/16 


9/64' 

1/8' 


5/32 

5 ' X 3' 





• 








I 

4 

0 








4 ' X 4 ' 

. 





► . 





- * 


1 

4 

0 




. - 



• • 

4 ' X 3 

. 





. • 





• 


1 

4 

0 


. . 





. . 

3 - 1 / 2 ' X 3 - 1 / 2 ' 

. 








■ ■ 




1 

4 

0 

3 12 0 



* - 




3-1/2' x 3' . 






- • 





- 


1 

4 

0 

.. 







3 -l '/2 X 2 - 1 / 2 ' 











* . 


1 

4 

0 

3 12 0 







3 * x 3' 






. . 







1 

4 

0 

3 12 0 



- . 




3 ' X 2 - 1 / 2 ' . 






5 0 

0 

5 

0 0 

5 

0 

0 

7 

8 

0 

8 12 0 



* . 




3 ' X 2 * 






• . 




5 

0 

0 

7 

3 

0 

8 12 O 



. . 




2 - 3 / 4 ' X 2 - 3 / 4 ' 






« . 




5 

0 

0 

7 

8 

0 

8 12 O 







2-1/2' X 2- 1/2' 






5 0 

0 

5 

0 0 

5 

0 

0 

7 

8 

0 

8 12 O 






. . 

2 - 1 / 2 ' X 2 ' . 






- . 




11 

4 

0 

12 

8 

0 

15 0 0 







2-1/2' x i - 1/2* 








11 

4 0 

11 

4 0 

12 

8 

0 

15 0 O 







2- I/4' X 2-1/4' 










11 

4 

0 

12 

8 

0 

15 O O 

18 12 

O 





2 ' X 2 ' 






10 0 

0 


<■ - 

11 

4 

0 

12 

8 

0 

15 O O 

18 12 

0 


25 0 

0 


2 ' X I- 1 , 2 ' 






.. 



■ • 


.. 



. . 


20 0 O 







1 - 3 / 4 ' X 1- 3 / 4 ' 






18 0 

0 


. • 

20 

0 

0 

20 

0 

0 

20 0 O 

23 12 

0 


48 12 

0 

48 12 

1 - 3 / 4 ' x i- 1/4' 











** 



. 


27 8 0 

30 0 

0 





I- 1/2' X I -1/2' 






. . 



. - 

16 

4 

0 

18 

12 

0 

20 O O 

23 12 

0 


30 0 

0 


I- 1/4' x i- 1/4' 






• . 



. . 


. . 





25 0 0 

28 12 

0 


35 0 

0 


H 

* 

X 

H 

s 











. . 



■ ■ 


25 0 0 

27 8 

0 

35 0 0 

35 0 

0 


3/4' X 3/4' 

. 

• 

• 

. 

• 

.. 



* *- 


• * 



. . 


25 0 0 

27 8 

0 


70 0 

0 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1966 715 



716 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12 , 1 M 6 [Part II— Sec. 3 

C,. — Base Price Item No. 3 — Structural — contd. 

3. (b) Angles Rate per ton 

Rs. a. p. 

8' x 8* 15 0 o 

3' X 2' x 1/4' (Wagons Doors) 20 o 0 

21/2* x 13/16" (Door striking Bars) . . . . . . 20 o O 

3 3/4 x I 7/8" x 3/4" Horn Check Section 20 o 0 

2-1/2" x 2* 1/2" x 3/8 " with round back and Sq. root , . 10 o o 

2 1/2' x 21/2" x I /4" with round back and Sq. root . , . 10 0 o 

2-1/2* x 2 1/2 x 3/8" with round back and root . . . . 10 o 0 

2 i'/2" x 2-1/2" x 1/4" with round back and root , , . . to 0 o 

4. Bulb Angles — 

10" x 3-1/2" x 3/8" and thicker 500 

5 - 1 / 2 " X 3 ' X 3 / 8 " 7 8 0 

4 " X 2- 1/2" t6 4 O 

5. Tees — 

3' x 3" X 38" 15 O o 

4" X 3" x 3/8" 15 0 o 

4" x 3" x 7/16" 15 o o 

3' x 3" x 3/8" 15 o o 

2 - 1 / 2 * X 2 - 1 / 2 " X 3 / 8 " 22 O O 

21 / 2 " X 2-1/2" X 1 / 4 " 23 12 O 

2" X 2 X 1 / 4 " . . . . . . . . 28 12 O 

21,4" X 2.1/4" Xl/ 4 " 25 O O 

2" L. W. Tees 33 12 O 

1 . 3 / 4 " X t' 3 / 4 " X X 2- 14 lbs 40 0 0 

1 - 3/4 x 1 - 3 / 4 " X 1 / 4 " 33 o o 

i- 1/2' x I- 1/2* x 1/4' 35 0 o 

6. Bridge Rails- — 

56 lbs. and 70 lbs . . . 52 8 o 


TX— Base Price Item No. 4 — Plates 3/8" and up— 

1. Thickness — 

5/16' 3 13 O 

l/4" 780 

3/16" 11 4 o 

2. Circular ot Half Circular Plates . . . . . . 25 0 O 


3. Miscellaneous — 

Plates below 24" wide ......... 10 o O 

Plates weighing over 2 tons per piece . • . • ■ . 10 0 o 

Cold Flattening 3/ 16" and up . - . . . . . . 10 0 o 

Copper Bearing Plates with Copper content - 1 to -2 per cent. . . 1 j o o 

4. Normalising — 

3/16" and up 15 0 o 

5. (i) Extras for Heavy Plates 3/16* thick and thicker — 

Extra for thickness — 

Over ii" upto and including i$" • . . . . . 700 

” l|-' upto and including 1 3/4" . . . . . . 15 o 0 

” 1 3/4" upto and including 2" . . . • 22 8 O 

"2" 30 o 0 


Extra for sizes — 

Width for every 3" or part over the following limits of width — 

(a) 1/4" and under 3/8" thick, 66" wide . . . . . zoo 

{. b ) Under 1/4’ down to and including 3/16" thick for every 6* or part 
in excess of 60" wide . , . . . . . 11 4 0 



Part II— SwT 3 ] TH^ GAZETTE OP INDIA, MAY 12 , 1986 


Rate per 
ton 

Rs. a. p. 


(il) Extras for medium plates under 3/16" thick — 

Extras for length — 

Exceeding 12' and upto and including 14' , . . . 380 

” 14' and upto and including 16' . . . . 940 

” 16' and upto and including 20' . . . 11 4 0 

E. — Base Price Item No. 5 — Chequered Plates 1/4" and up — 

1. Thickness — 

3/16" 10 0 o 

2. Circular or Half Circular Plates . . . . . . . 25 0 o 

3. Miscellaneous — 

Plates below 24" wide . . . . . . . . 10 0 0 

Plates weighing over 2 tons per piece . . . . . 10 o o 

Cold Flattening 3/ 16' - and up 10 0 o 

4. Normalising — 

3/16" and up . . . . . . . . . . . 15 o o 

1/8' 780 

F. — Base Price Item No. 6 — Boiler Plates 3/8' and up — 

1. Thickness — 

j/16’ 3 12 0 

1/4" 780 

3/16" IX 4 o 

2. Circular or Half Circular Plates 25 o 0 

3. Miscellaneous — 

Plates below 24" wide 1000 

Plates weighing over 2 tons per piece . . . . . . . 10 o o 

Cold Flattenig 3/16" and up . . . . . . . . 10 o 0 

4. Normalising. 

3/16" and up 15 0 0 


G. — Base Price Item No. 7 — Black Sheets (Gauges 10 to 14) — 


1. Extra for Gauge — 

15 to 16 gauge 600 

17 to 18 Gauge 1000 

19 to 20 Gauge . . . . . . . . 15 O o 

2i to 22 Gauge 25 o o 

*23 to 24 Gauge . . . . - . . . . 28 o o 

25 to 26 Gauge . . . . . . ■ ■ 35 o o 

27 Gauge 50 o o 

28 Gauge ........... 57 0 0 

29 Gauge ........... 64 0 0 

30 Gauge . . . . • • • ■ . 77 o o 

31 Gauge ........... 84 00 


♦Not applicable to 24 Gauge Black corrugated sheets. 



718 


THE GAZETTE ''F INDIA, MAY 12 , 1956 


[Part II — Sic. 3 


«G. — Base Price Item N0.7 — Black Sheets (Guages 10 to 14) — contd. Rate per ton 

2. Extras for special processing — Rs. a. P. 

*(1) Unannealed corrugated , . . . . . . . ,500 

f(ii) Annealed corrugated . . . . . . . .1300 

(iii) Cold Rolling (for each pass) ........ 5 0 o 

liv) Roller Levelling . . . . . . . . .500 

(0) Pickling (once pickled) — 

(a) 14/24 Gauge . . . . . . . . . 18 0 O 

lb) 25/26 Gauge . . . . . . . . . . 26 o o 

(c) 10 Gauge 18 00 

Id) 11 to 13 Gauges 18 o o 

(e) 28 Gauge 30 o o 

(/) 29 Gauge 30 o o 

(g) 30 Gauge 37 12 o 

(vi) Coating with Linseed oil . . . . . . . 10 o o 

(vii) Coating with Prcvoke oil . . . . . . . 15 o o 

(viit) Deoxydisation of sheets . . . . . . .780 

3. Extras for Special Quality — 

(1) Black Panel sheets tested to I.R.S. Specification No. M-22/39 up to 24 

Gauge (over tested Base Price) . . . . . 65 o O 

0 u ) Blacke Sheets to a modification of B.S. Specification No. 13 of 1910 

(over tested Base Price.) . . . . . .500 

621) Black Sheet to Specification B.S. /STAS/V/2C& V3 . . 22 8 o 

(iv) High Carbon Sheets — 

a a to under • 50 % carbon 35 0 o 

to under ■ 60 % carbon 50 o o 

to under • jp% carbon 60 o o 

to under ■ 80 % carbon 208 0 0 


N.B. — Where High Carbon sheets call for Carbon range within more than one of the above 
specifications the higher extra will be recoverable. For instance, if -35 per cent, to ■ 55 per cent, 
carbon sheets are required the extra will be Rs, 50 per ton. 

(v) Double seaming quality . 

(vi) Dead soft quality .......... 

(mV) Double Annealed sheets . . . . . . . Vij 0 0 

(vtii) Drum quality 

(ix) Deep Drawing or Deep Stamping quality J 

(x) Normalising 20 0 0 

(xt) Spring Steel sheets from Electric Fumancc ..... 216 o 0 

(xii) Copper Bearing sheets with Copper Cotent ■ 15% to 25 % . . . 15 o 0 


♦Not applicable to 24 gauge Black corrugated sheets. 

t'Ihe extra is only Rs. 8/- per ton in case of 24 gauge Black corrugated sheets. 


G, — Base Pike Item No. •f — Black Sheets (Guages 10 to 14) — conld. 


4. Extras for Special Sizes — 
(i) Black Sheets — 


(Rate in Rupeet per ton% 


Size Gauges 






10G 

11G 

12G 

13G 

14G 

I 5 G 

16G 

17G 

18G 

19 G 

2oG 

2lG 

22/23 G 24G 24/25G 26G 

28G 

2'— Ii'x8'— 6' 

















3 12 

2' — 6' x 10' . 

















18 12 

2'— 3' x 1' 








7 8 









. , 

2'— 3i* x st'— 2' 

2' — 6' x 2' . 










3 12 







11 4 

3 ' — o' xi' . 








7 8 










3'xi' — 8' . 

3 'X 1' — 9 * . 








7 8 


7 *8 








3 'X 2 ' 










5 12 


5 12 


5 12 


5 12 


3 ' X 2' — 6' . 










3 12 








3 ~ 2 'X 2 '— 4' 










3 12 








3 ' — 6'x 2' . 










3 12 








4 'X 3' 










3 12 








4 'x io'~4i" 

4 'X 1'— 6' . 








3 12 


17 0 








4' x 1 — 8J' - 
4 'X 7 i'X 4 ' 










5 10 



00 





4 ' X 6' — io' . 

4 ' — lY X 3 ' — I°i' 
4'— 8' x 1' — 10' 




15 0 






5 10 


7 8 




• * *•< 


5 '— 6'X 1'— 1 o' 
















78.. 


6'x 1'— 3' . 

6'xi'— r . 








3 12 








22 8 


6'x 1'— Si' . 

6'x I' — 10’ - 






3 12 







7 8 





6' x 4' — 8' . 

6'x S' 








11 4 


15 0 








7 'X 6' 

7 '— I'X 1'— loi' 
7 '— 4'x 1' — io* 
8'x 1' — 10' . 







3 12 



3 12 


11 4 




7 8 :: :: " 


8'x 1'— Si' . 













3 12 






Part II— Sic. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1956 



Base Price Item No. 7 — Black Sheet (Gauges 10 to 14 ) — amid. 
4 - Extras for Special Sizes— amid. 

(i) Black Sheets — ccmld. 


{Rale in Rupees per tony. 


Gauges 






10G 

11G 

12 G 

i 3 g 

14G 

isg 

16G 

I7G 

18G 

19 G 

2oG 

21G 22/23G 24 G 

25 G 

26G 28G | 

8'xr— 54' - 









22 8 










1 

8' — 6' x 6 ' . 










11 4 










8'— 6 'X 3 '— 2i' 



















3 12 

8' — 9 * X 5 * - 










18 12 










8' — 9' x 4' — 6*J 









. . 

, , 

15 0 









9'— 1' x 2'— 3|' 










, , 









78.. 

9'— io'x 45 i' 










9 8 










9 — 10 * X 53* 










9 6 







. , ' 



9 ' — ioJ'x 3' — 9J' 






. . 




9 6 










9' — 2'x6' . 






_ . 













96 

9 'X 3 ' 






, , 




, , 









7 8 26 4 

9 ‘ x 4'— Si' • 




11 4 


. . 














9'X l 6 r 






3 12 


3 12 


3 12 







3 12 

7 8 


9' X 18' 






3 12 


3 12 


3 12 







3 12 

7 8 


10' x 16' 






7 8 


3 12 


3 12 







3 12 

11 4 


io'xiS' 






7 8 


3 12 


3 12 







3 12 

11 4 


19' x 26' 










5 12 









. . . » , 

ig'X 4 < 5 ' 






. . 




17 O 










10' x 56' 





15 0 

18 12 














10'— 3* X 2' — ID* 






5 12 














10'— 4' X 26 1 ' 






3 12 














10 — 3' X 2' — 6' 








5 12 












10'— 4' X 31' 






3 12 














ie' — s' x 3' • 






, * 




5 12 










10'— 5' x 2'— 8' 






. . 




5 12 










10' — 5' x 2' — 6' 






. . 




5 12 










10' x 2' 






. . 




5 12 









18 12 

10' x 2' — 8' . 






, , 




5 12 









. . . . 

10' — 5' x 3' — 3' 






. . 




5 12 










10' — 5' x 3' — 9' 






. . 




17 O 










10' — 5*x 3* — ir* 






. . 




17 0 










10' — 6' x 33' 






3 12 














icfxs' 




IS 0 
















10'— 7i'x34' 






3 12 













. . 

10' — 8* x 2' — 7}' 








5 12 











. . 

10' — 2' x 34^' 

- 





3 12 


-• 











.. .. : 


S 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1900 [Past II— $ec. 



G. Base Price Item No. 7— Black Sheets (Gauges io to 14) — contd. 

4. Estras for Special Sizes — contd. (Rate in Rupees per ton) 

(i) Black Sheets — amid. 


Gauges. 


Size 



10G 

11G 

12 G 

13G 

14G 

I5G 

16G 

17G 

18G 

19G 

20G 

2lG 22/23G 24G 

25 G 

2 6G 

2SG 

IO' x 2' — 2l* 









5 12 









IO' X 29 * 









5 13 









to' x 37* 









5 12 









10' x 45* 





7 8 

7 8 












10' — j* x 36' 









5 12 









10' — 2' x 35J' 





3 12 




. . 









10'x 3' 
















15 0 

30 0 

10' x 2' — Si' 









5 12 









10'x 2' — 8J' 









5 12 









I0'X2' — 6' . 
















18 12 


10' — 6'X45' 









17 0 









1 o' — 6' x 3' — 7* 











9 6 







10' — 6' x 42' 









17 0 









10'— 9' x 37* 









3 12 









10'— 9' X 43i* 









17 0 









io'— 9'X44' 









5 10 









10' — 6' x 46' 









17 0 









10' — 6' x 49' 









22 8 









10'— 3' x 4'— 3' 









22 8 









10' — 9* x 3&J' 









5 12 









10'— 9i'x3'— i' ■ 


, 

. , 

, , 





5 10 









10' — n'X 4 ' — 6' . 









13 2 









io* — 3' x 48' 









17 0 









10'— 3' x 38' 





3 12 




. . 









10' — 3* x 36' 









5 12 









10' — 4' x 3' . 








.... 

5 10 









10' — 4'x 38}' 





3 12 













10' — 5' x 3' — 6 ' . 









16 14 









10' x 4' — 8' . 









20 IO 









n'x3' 




9 8 





. . 





. . II 0 II 0 


28 4 


n'x3'to 3' — 6' . 







7 8 


7 8 









II' x over 3' — 6'to 4' 









13 2 

f . 








11' x 3' — 6' . 







, . 

7 8 

7 8 


37 8 







n'X3— '9' . 









13 2 









11' x 4' 



15 0 




11 4 


13 2 









n'X 4 '— 3' . 







. . 


32 0 









11' — I'X3' . 






-• 







7 8 






Paht II-4S»& S] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 13, 1366 



G. Base Price Item No. 7— Black Sheets (Gauges 10 to 14) — canid. 

4. Extras for Special Sizes — corad. 

(i) Black Sheets — contd. 


{Rale in Rupees per ton) 

Gauges 


w 

N' 


Sizes 

10G 11G 12G 13G 14G 15G 16G 17G iSG 19G 20G 21G 22/23G 24G 25G 26G 28G 


II— 3 'X 2 ' — 4 }' . 











18 

12 










II— 3 ' X 3 '— o' - 
II — 3 * X 3 ' — 7 i* . 




, ( 







. 18 

12 



















. 

. 26 

4 




, * 






II— 3 ' X 3 '— 7 i' • 
Ii'— ij' X 4 ' 



15 0 







■ 

. 26 

4 










II— 4 ' X 56' 











. 28 

-2 










11'— 4* X 28 ' 










r 

. 18 

12 










11— 4' X 30* 











. 18 

12 










11' — i*X2' — 6J' . 











. 18 

12 










II' — ±'X 2 '— 4}' . 











. 18 

12 










II' — 4 i' X '4'— 6J' . 










* 

. 28 

2 



, , 







11' — 6'x 3' . 











, 









28 4 


II' — 6'x 4 










13 

2 13 

2 










II' — 3’ x 2 — 4' 











. 18 

12 




. . 






11'— 6' x 4'— 6' . 










20 

IO 20 

TO 










11'— 9 »X 2 '— 7 i' • 








7 

8 


. 

. 




, , 






II' — i'X 2 ' — }' 

Il'X 2 ' 








7 

8 


18 

12 






■ 




12' X 2' . 



9 8 





15 

0 

15 

0 is 

0 

. * . » 

.. 28 4 



28 

2 




12' x 2' — 6' . 



9 8 


3 

12 


28 

4 

15 

0 15 

O 










12' x 2' — s' . 



9 8 


7 

O 


15 

0 

15 

0 15 

O 










12' X 2' — 10' 



9 8 


9 

6 



, 

15 

0 15 

O 










12' x 3' 



9 8 


3 

12' 


15 

0 

15 

0 15 

0 

. . 15 O 

.. 15 0 

18 12 

18 12 

18 

12 


30 


12 ' X 3 ' — 2 ' . 









♦ 

15 

0 15 

0 

. . 15 0 









12' x 3'— 3 ' • 



, . 


16 

14 16 

14 15 

0 

15 

0 15 

0 

.. 15 0 









I 2 'X 3 '— 6* ■ 

I 2 'X 45 " 



17 0 

16 14 

16 

14 16 

14 

18 

12 

15 

0 15 

0 

. . 22 8 

• • 45 0 


45 0 






12' x 4' 



17 0 

16 14 

16 

14 16 

14 

18 

12 

32 

0 20 

0 

. . 32 0 









12' X 4'— 6' • 









28 

2 28 

2 

, , , . 









12' x 4' — 8 ' . 

12' X 2' — 5' . 











• 35 

10 

. . • * 





















* . 




28 

2 





the gazette of indIa, May ii, lose [Fart ii— S ec. 3 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1058 


723 


Rate per ton 


G. — Base Price Item No, 7 — Black Sheets (Gauges 10 to 14) — coned. 
4. Extras for Special Sixes — contd. 


( II ) Black Corrugated Sheet: — 

(1) 16G x 8/3'Corr. x 11' — o' 

(2) 24G x ?/3'Corr. x 12' — 0’ 

G) 24G x 10/3'Corr. x 12'— o' 

W) 24G x 8/3'Corr. x 11' — O' 

(5) 24G X 8/3'Corr. x 10'— o' 

(6) 26GX 10/3" Corr. X9'— 0' ..... 

(.7) 26GX 8/3' or 9/3" or 10/3' Corr. x 10' — 0' 

( III ) The follwlng extras will apply to sires not mentioned above — 

(.a) For widths over 3' and under 34' for such gauges as can be 
supplied In these widths .... 

(i>) for widths 34' and up to 4' for such gauges as can be 
supplied in these widths. ...... 

(e) For widths over 4' and up to 44 ' for such gauges as can be sup- 
plied in these widths ... ... 

(iv) For non-standard sizes of sheets (.but not smaller than 4' x 2') . 
(r) Reshearing to a tolerance closer than plus 3/8" .... 

(vi) Extra for rolling sheets to specified thickness tolerance . 

(pit) Panel Sheets 

10'— o' x a'-3' x 3/32" (13G) 

I2'-0' X 2'-8' X 3/32" IT3&) 

5. Panel Plates — 

( 1 ) Crating charges (per ton) for Panel Plates — 

Box weighing approximately 2 tons gross, .... 
Box weighing approximately 5 tons gross .... 
Box wicghlng approximately 2 cwts. gross .... 
Box wleghing (Extra Strong) 2 cwts. grosB .... 
(il) For Packing in steel envelopes 

Inspection of Panel Plates — 


RS. A. P. 

780 
28 4 o 
18 12 o 

IT O O 

Nil 

780 
13 o o 


300 

500 

800 

15 o o 

13 O o 
23 0 o 


3 12 o 
700 


33 8 0 

2J O O 

30 o o 
40 o o 
13 8 o 


All Panel Plates will be put up for Surface Inspection by Govern- 
ment and the inspection fee will be charged to the customer. 

0. Stretcher Levelled Sheets — 


(0 Patent Flattening and gripper marks removed . , . ■ 15 o 0 

(ii) End shearing after flattering i. e., Stretcher levelling plus re-shear- 
ing on all sides . . , 26 4 O 

H. — Base Price Item No. 8 — Galv. Corrugated Sheets — 

I. 24G x 6/ioft. long— 

(i) Gauge and length — 


16 gauge 


less than the basis price 




15 

0 

0 

16 „ 

II' 

Do. 




4 

0 

0 

17/18 gauge 

Do. 




10 

0 

0 

19/20 „ 


Do. 




7 

0 

0 

if 

I2 # 

over the basis price 




3 

0 

0 

17/18 „ 

IT' 

Do. 




I 

0 

0 

17/18 „ 

T2' 

Do. 


» 


8 

0 

0 

19/20 „ 

IT' 

Do. 




4 

0 

0 

19/20 „ 

T 2 ' 

Do. 



• 

II 

0 

0 

21/24 „ 

IT' 

Do. 

• 



18, 

6 

0 

21/24 v 

12' 

Do. 




30 

0 

0 

25 ). 

6,8' 

Do. 

• 

* 


25 

0 

0 

25 

9 ' 

Do. 

• 

• 

• 

32 

0 

0 

3 J 3 1 

10' 

Do, 

• 

• 

• 

37 

0 

0 



THE GAZETTE OF iWlMA, 'MAY 12, 19B0 


IPmtt II— Sec. 3 


724 


H. — Base Price Item No. 8 — Galv/Corrugatcd'Shecte — contd. 
1. 24G X 6/loJft. long — contd. 

(t) Gauge and length — contd. 


25 

Gauge 

11' 

over the basis price 

25 

33 

12' 

Do. 

26 

33 

6 / 8 ' 

Do. 

26 

3 » 

9' 

Do. 

26 

33 

10' 

Do. 

26 

33 

11' 

Do. 

26 

33 

12' 

Do. 

27 

ii 


Do. 

28 

ii 


Do. 

29 

3 » 


Do. 

30 

33 


Do. 


Rate per ton. 
Rs. A. p. 


48 o o 
74 o o 
37 o o 
48 o o 

54 0 0 
72 o o 
92 o o 
41 o o 
44 o o 

55 0 0 
65 o o 


(ii) For Non-Standard Sizes 


15 o O 


(iii) Extras for Special sizes. 

io'-2}' x 10/3 corr. (2'-8*) x 18G 980 


io'-3'x 10/3 corr. (2 , -8')x I7 /i8G 980 

2. Plain Sheets — 


(i) For Standard Sizes 


700 


(ii) For Non-Standard sizes not less than 6' in length and 2' in width 

(edges ungalvanisei where sheared), . . . 22 o o 

(iii) Galv. Plain Sheen — 7' — 6'x59'xl8G 3 12 o 

8'x 3' — 2 'x 22G 3 12 o 

I2'x I2'x 18G 26 4 o 

1 9‘ 75 ' X 3‘ 875' x 22/24G , . . 26 o o 

19 • 75' x 5 • 875' x 22/24G . . . 26 4 0 

95*' X 23|' x 26G 7 4 0 

70J' x 3$i' X 16G ■ . . . . 3 12 0 

12' — o' x 4'— o' x T4G . . . . 32 o 0 

io'x3'X2BG 26 4 o 

(iv) Drum Quality Sheets . . . . . . . . 10 o o 

(v) For shearing G. P. Sheets less than the minimum Blze of 6' x 2' . 3 o o 


3. Tested sheets To I.S.D. Specn. G/Metals4i/H and Specn, No. ISI-277 
over tested Base Price — ) 

Class-I Extra Heavy Zinc coating (average 2- Jo oz per sq. ft.) 


2oGand thicker 35 4 0 

21/24G 58 8 o 

26G and thinner . . . . . . . . 82 o o 

Class-II Special Quality — 

(2 oz. spelter) 16/20G . . . . . . . . 13 0 o 

(2 oz. spelter) 21/24G ' . . . 30 o o 

(2 oz. spelter) 26G 45 o o 

Class-Ill * Prime Merchant ’ Quality — 

(1 • 1/2 oz. spelter) 16/24G . . . . . . . 10 o o 

(1 • 1/2 oz. spelter) 26G . . . . . . . 15 0 o 

4. Depth of corrugation — 

For 3/4' Depth of Corrugation 700 

J. (i) Shearing G. C. Sheets in length below 6' x 2' . . . . 300 

(ii) For Annealing G. C. Sheets 18G and thinner . . 700 



Part II— Bec. 3] THE- GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1950 725 


Rate per ton. 
Rs. a. p. 

I. — Base Price Item No. 9 — Heavy Rails — 

1. Sandberg Controlled Cooled Rails 100 

2. Chrome Steel Rails— ........ 

(a) Ordinary . . . . . . . ■ • 40 o o 

(b) Special 60 o o 

3. Rails for switches and crossings in standard lengths of , not less than 27' 

and not more than 42' . . . . . . . to o o 

4. 115 lbs. Section Rails . . . . . . . 20 o o 

5. Rails over 42' but not exceeding 45' In length in ordinary quality not 

subject to controlled cooling treatment . . . 280 

6. Rails leas than 27' other than switches and crossings . to o 0 

7. Drilling bond-holes ......... 380 

8. Specified lengths of not less than 27' . . . . . . to o o 

J- — Base Price Item No. to — Fish Plates for Heavy Rails— Class A— 

1. ‘B’ Class Fishplate 25 o 0 

2. Drilling bond-holes 380 

K. — Base Price Item No. 11 — Light Riils 30 lbs and below — 

I. Specified length . . . . 10 0 o 

L. — Base Price Item No. 12— Fishplates for Light Rails — 

Nil Nil. 

M. — Base Price Item No. 13 — Tool Steel Bars TSC/2 or TSC/2A — 

1. Rounds 3' to 5* and Squares 3’ to 3 • 1/2" . . . . 3 12 o 

2. Flats over 5" and under 8" wide, thickness under 1/2' down to 1/4' . 280 

3. Flats i" to 2' 1/2' wide, thickness 1/8" or 3/16' . . . . 10 o o 

4. Flats under 1" wide, thinkness 1/8* . . . . . 25 o o 

5. Flats under 1 ' wide, thickness 3/16" 20 o o 

6. Flats under 1" wide, thickness 1/4" or 5/16' 15 o o 

7. Flats under 1 ' wide, thickness 3/8* and over. . • . ro o o 

8. Octagonal Bars 3/4' to 1 • 1/4" . . . . . . . 600 

N. — Base Price Item No. 14 — Bullet proof plates. Specification IT70C — 

1. Final Heat Treatment 25 o o 

2. Sectional Extras — 

(i) 4 mm. thick . . . • ■ • • . . 15 o 0 

ill) 5 mm. „ 12 4 o 

(iii) 6mm. „ ......... 980 

(iv) 7 nun. „ 6 to o 

(v) 8 mm. „ 3 12 o 

3. For special annealing preparatory to Gas cutting of plates — 10 mm. 

thick and over . . . . . . . . .2100 

4. For Gas cutting ......... 500 

5- For each hole drilled ......... 080 

O. — Base Price Item No. 15 — Shell Steel Blooms — 

Nil Nil 

P. — Base Price Item No. 16— Shell Steel Bars — 

1. 8' Diameter or Gothic Section . . . . . . 26 4 o 

Q. — Base Price Item No. 17 — Blooms, Salbs and Billets — 

1. (a) For Billets to I.R.S.S.M. 6/34, Class V (Boiler quality) 640 

(b) Boiler Rivet quality Billets 640 

2. Telegraph wire quality - • • ■ . 30 o o 

3. 35/40 Tons Tensile Basic Open Hearth quality . . . . 30 o o 

4. Tiscrom quality Billets and Tiscrom Rivet quality Billets. . 58 o o 

5. Deep Drawing quality Tin Bar . . . . 15 o o 

6. Electric spring steel Billets — 

(i) Specification M. 10/34 216 o o 

(ii) Specification M. n /34 water hardened 216 o o 

(iii) Specification M. 11/34 oil hardened 226 o o 

(iv) Specification M. 24/34 ....... 26 6 o o 

(v) Specification M, 25/34 291 o o 

(vi) Specification M. 10 (Basic Open Hearth) . . 166 o o 



726 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 12, 1950 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


Q- — Base Price Item No. 17 — Blooms, Salbs and Billets — contd. 


7. Electric High Carbon Spring Steel Billets — Analysis of Billets (carbon 
percentage) — 

fi) -5 to -6 

(ii) ■ 61 to '75 

(iii) • 76 to ■ 90 

(iv) -91 to 1 -2 

8. Billets to specification TSC. 2 ...... 

9. Cutting charges for Blooms, Billets and Slabs up to 15' Sq. 

to. Billets with manganese content over 0-70 to 1 % . 

rr. Electric/Acid Steel Billets ........ 

12. Electric Steel tested to M. S. 2713 ...... 

R. — Miscellaneous Extras on all Steel — 


1. 


Special quality. — • 


1. 


2. 


3- 

4- 

5- 


Tensile Test or Carbon Content of Sheets 

Carbon Range Tensile Test (in tons per sqr. inch) 


(a) -15% to -25% 

(b) over -25% to -30% 

(c) „ -30% to -35% 

W „ ‘35% w -4°% 


. 22 — 27 
■ 25—29 
. 27—32 
• 30—35 


Spraying steel strips with* LinBeed oil instead of oiling the strips 
Individually ......... 


Mild steel Flats to specified thickness tolerance (close to pluB o- 008' 
and minus o- 004" and to plus/minus 1/32*) . 

For coiling M.S. Rods below 7/16’ dia 


Tested Flats 


6 . 


(а) 

(б) 


3/4" X 7/16' \ 
13/16' X 7/16*/ 


(a) Special extra for packing of Drum Sheets in 1 ton steel envelope 


(b) Packing of Drum Sheets in 5-Ton steel envelope 


7. Extra for Gas cutting charges 

8. Wrapping with gunny bags . 

9. Extras for reelling of bars 


I ■ 1/2' and above ....... 

under f 1/2" to C ...... 

» i" to 7/8* 

„ 7/8' to 3/4' 

>, 3/4" to 5/8" 

„ 5/8* to r/2* 

to. Extra for Rimmimg steel Billet, Bars, Structural and Sheets 
11. Alluminium killed steel ...... 

T2. Vanadium Rimming Steel Sheets ..... 

13. Low sulphur & Phosphorus -035% .... 

14. (a) Electric Steel — 

(i) ‘C’ Class or Class III . ... 

(ii) ‘D’ Class or Class IV 

(6) Open Hearth Steel — 

(1) ‘C’ Class or Class III 

(ii) ‘D’ Class or Class IV 

( c ) Tiscrom High Tensile Bars and Structural. 

(d) Tiscrom High Tensile Plates ..... 

(e) Tiscrom Sheets ....... 

( f) Tiscor Bars and Structures ..... 

(g) Tiscor Plates ....... 

(«) Tiscor Sheets ....... 

(t 1 ^Flanging pressing quality Plates and Flats . 

(]) Boiler quality Bars and Structural .... 


Rate per ton 
Rs. A. P. 


216 0 o 

233 o o 

250 o o 
266 o o 
123 o o 
10 o o 
3 12 o 
50 o o 

120 O 0 


960 
15 o o 

22 8 O 

33 J 2 o 

800 


17 o o 
500 


25 o o 

28 8 0 
800 
10 0 o 
12 8 o 

20 o 0 
30 o o 
40 o o 

45 O O 

50 o o 
60 o o 

20 0 O 

45 o o 
55 ° o 
22 8 0 


70 o o 

97 8 o 


ir 4 o 
37 8 o 

84 o o 
107 o o 
107 o o 
122 O O 
143 O O 
143 O O 

7 8 0 

64O 



Dart ti — S ec. 6] 


THE GAZETTE Of INDIA, MAY 12, 1656 


rtf 


Rate per ton. 
Rs. a. p. 


R. — Miscellaneous Extras on all Steel — contd, 
i. Special quality — contd. 

(ft) Steel Tested to Lloyds specification — 

(i) Black sheets 

(ii) Plates and all sections 

(1) (i) For Normalising Bars — 

Rounds and Squares 3" k to 8" . 

Bars weighing i • 502 lb. per ft. and heavier 
Bars under X ■ 502 lb. to • 668 lb’ per it. 

Bars under ■ 668 lb. to • 376 lb. per ft. . 

Bars under • 376 lb. per ft. .... 

(ii) For Izod Test ....... 

(m) (i) Bars to B.S.S. 51, Grade ‘A’ 

(ii) Bars to B.S.S. 64 and Specn. T3 . 

(iii) Bars co B.S.S. 32/4 (Basic Open Hearth) . , 

(») Bara to I.R.S.S.M. 26/35 — 

(i) Basic Open Hearth, Class X .... 

Do XI ... 

(ii) Electric or Acid Steel, Class X 

Do XI 

(0) (i) Bars to Specification EN. 1 — ("Basic open Hearth Steel 

\ Electric steel . 


(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(P) «) 


Do 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 


EN. 6 
EN. 7, 
EN. 8. 
EN. 10 
EN. 32. 


Extra for Specification I.R.S.R. 18/37 (Acid Steel) 


(ii) 

Do. 

I.R.S.R. 17 (Acid or Electric Steel) . 

60 0,0 

(iii) 

Do. 

I.R.S.R. 29 Do ... 

60 0 0 

(iv) 

Do. 

I.R.S.T. IA/34 and T. 1/39 

40 0 0 


2 . 


10 

9 


15 

30 


90 

5 

30 

33 

26 


21 

47 

80 

107 

53 

H3 

97 

5° 

83 

137 

50 

90 


o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 


o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 


(9) Basic open Hearth High carbon Steel— carbon contents — 

•35 per cent to -45 per cent 50 o 

• 4 per cent to • 5 per cent ........ 50 0 

■45 per cent to ’85 per cent 90 o 

(r) For copper contents in steel — 

Copper upto ■ 35 per cent 15 0 

Copper over • 35 per cent upto ■ 5 per cent 1812 

Copper over ■ 5 per cent upto ■ 75 per cent ..... 30 o 

(s) Steel tested to BSS 449 of 1948 and BSS 968 of 1941 . , . 64 o 

Lengths — 

(a) Dead Lengths g 

lb) Bars and Sections leas than 10' ...... 14 

(c) Length over 44' per ton per foot subject to a maximum of Rs. 20 per 
ton (Extra freight and other^charges for carrying longer lengths to be 
borne by the customers) . 

Extra for Marking— 

(a) Four letters (minimum) 

(ft) Each Extra letter 04 

Bundling and coiling charges — 


Bundling or coiling for the sections mentioned below — 
Angles — 

3/4' X 3/4* X t/4 ' 1 
3/4' x 3/4' X 3/16' I 

3 / 4 ' X 3/4* x '1/8' I 

I' x I' X '3/16' 5- 

I' X X' X 9/64' 

I'XI'X 1/8* 

ii' x Ii' x 1/8* 


5 


o 0 



72 $ 


THB GAZETTfc OP INDIA, MAY 12, 1956 


[Fart II — Sec. 6 


Rate per ton. 
Rs. a. p. 

R. — Miscellaneous Extras on all Steell — could. 

Squares and Rounds — 

7 / 16 ' and smaller 500 


Thin Flats — 

For all sizes mentioned in Base Price Item No. 1 , Para A (a) with the 
exception of the following : — 

15 / 16 * x ' 1 / 4 ' X 5/16") 3 / 8 *> 7 / 16 ' & 1 / 2 ' . . . . 500 

Bundling with wire ......... 500 

Wrapping the two ends of bundles with hessian cloth including the 

cost of cloth ......... 500 

If bundling of other sizes not mentioned above is necessary or required by 
the carrier or buyer, the above extra may be charged by negotiation 
With the buyer. 

S. — Wire and Wire Products — 

Miscellaneous Extra on Wire and Wire Products — 

(i) For oiling wire 1080 


G. R. Nathsan, 
Iron 8c Steel Gontroller. , ' 


[No. SC(A )-4 (253) D.] 
M. R. MENON Under Secretary. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 30th April 1066 

SJft.O. 1114. — It is hereby notified for general information that Shrimati G. 
Bharadwaj, a member of the Advsiory Panel of the Central Board of Film 
Censors at Bombay retired under sub-rule (1) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph 
(Censorship) Rules, 1051, with effect from the 4th March, 1956. 

[No. 14/1/56-FC.] 

BJt.O. 1116. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (3) of rule 9 
read with sub-rule (1) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules. 1051, 
the Central Government hereby appoints after consultation with the Central 
Board of Film Censors Shrimati Gopa Bharadwaj, as a member o! the Advisory 
Panel of the said Board at Bombay with effect from the 5th May 1066, 

[No. 14/1/56-FC,] 
D. KRISHNA AYYAR, Under Secy. 


PRINT*]) IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
N*W DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS. DELHI. 1056 



