ffn »>o (t>)-73 


REGISTERED No. D. (D)-73 




UIRcT AC ^IbriMsI 

C Ihc (Saxette of Jjtxdia 


srrfsmr s shiftier 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


Ho 29] ^ famt, nfaim, spnf 22, 1978/3nm , « 31, 1900 

No. 29] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 


m wm Si fwa "jus roti *1 TTTrft | fimi* fa uj nmn tototoi % mr wr 
Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation 

11— ar«s 3 (ii) 

PART II — Section 3 Sub-Section (ii) 

(mr nsrmtr fftr (da tiwr tfar smmnf dt tftjtrv) 

d-TOa aTfavrfoif jm smft Orrq tott rfifaftw <ntu dk wfmjnmij 

Statutory Orders and Notifications issued by the Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) by Central Authorities 
(other than the Administrations of Union Territories) 


writ 

^ feat, 27 ^T, 1978 

vtTowio 2122 . — tot;, froWr torEt to ttsthtt ft »ito | 

f«r toto 1977 Jr hut % otottot frorfrot % ie- 

TOTTtRTt fhVrv H Jl r -i 7 M TrrftTTOT Hi TOTOfOT? 

TTTOfTTf Tnftff, rjnrTTOtTOT, ’TO^FT mfTOtl, DtTO H ^ v .*f. i ’ (TOr- 
tm) dd? yfafafaro TOfafronr, issi ttto ot;#t tottu, to 

r-l^t 3,1 <7 v^ftSOT STOTT froJTOT *TO7t TO TOi lit '1 <37 <up9i<*i 

qrrof t tottot f, 

aftr, to:, tott ^Rfrron: ^Jr toto toJ to 

tfj, OTOTt W OTTWT7 TO HTtf TOTOT TOTOT ■PT'€HTOT lift fTOT 

| aftt, frofaro htoTOto iif iffr totoott ft tott £ f% to% toto 

TO OTPTOTO % fTOT TO^ toVtt TOTOT TO TOEltfTOiT Tft ft, 

TO:*WTO 3TO WfilfTORr TO HKT 1 CHTT *r OT ^TO T Jf pTOf TOT 
OTTOfi TOtfffTTO "it TOTOfTO TORtth? TO^tf TO TOT? 
% (TOft ’tf) TOT JfT TO froft TOOT t?) fVOTTO OTTO OTTOT PTUTO 

qfrori ^ toot toVt ftr % frof to ht^tt to Trrhv 

% tfEr toJ # TOTOnrftt % fro frofftr vriro tocto % i 

(TOo iJHe hT°<T°/ 10/77( l)] 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 27th June, 1978 

S.O, 2122.— Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Natwarsmh Takhtsinh Rathod, At Moyad, Taluka- 
Prantij, District Sabarkantha (GUJARAT) a contesting candi- 
date for the general election to the House of the People 
held in March, 1977 from 16-Kapadwanj constituency, has 
failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as re- 
quired by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 
the Rulea made thereunder ; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for the failure ; , 

Now therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said 
Shri Natwarsinh Takhtsinh Kalhod to be disqualified for 
being chosen as. and for being, a member of either House 
of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative 
Council of a State for a period of three years from the 
date of this order. 


385 GI/78 — 1 


(1951) 


{No, GJ-HP/l«/77 (t)] 


1952 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)L 


qf fetft, 3 0 3R, 1 9 7 R 

vo wr f 2123. — ¥rh> afafqfaR qfafqqq, i 9 so (1950 
43) Ft srrcr ntf Ft qqam (1) ara rttt nrfffitrf qff 
qq>r ttF ftr, wrrw fqqfaq trrqPr, ftrfFw qqqrn: % qrtqF 
ir, Ft fflTo %o tjc^ 7 ; % ^qR qq Ft »t° F° Vr$° 

tTo iTflrcj, q<mq qtqq; Ft fqfwq ttr % Pat qqq Prafaq 
qTfFqr % ft if 22 5 Pt, 1978 it ■st^tPt wFFt tpi^srrr 
qrq-fFffvnT qrTqr | 1 

[Wo 15#rfTCT/78] 

STRUT ft, 

<fto rrrirginTT'^q^T, qfqq 

New Delhi, ihe 30ih June, 1978 

S.O. 2123. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (I) of Section 13A of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950), the Election Commission, in 
consultation with the Government of Sikkim, hereby nominates 
Shri D. K. Manavalam, IAS, Divisional Commissioner, Sik- 
kim. as the Chief Electoral Officer for the State Sikkim with 
effect from the 22nd June, 1978 and until further orders vice 
Shri R, K. Gupta, 

[No. 154/SKM/781 
By Ordor 

V, NAGASUBRAMANIAM, Secv. 
•T? fip^ft, 4 'HMT?, 19 78 

Vto«Tfo 2124 . — -WK qfirfFftRq TTfePfipt, 1951 (1951 

vr 43) Ft etht 22 Ft qqnnr (1) airr arw ttrfFrtfr qrr 
atfffr fo, faqfqq wfPr rrtpjjtqr ^ fq^r $ ft? qqFt 
wTs^OTTFo 434 fFw/ 77 ( 2 ) ftltpT 2 1977 it ffiR- 

farfaq qurraq fFq: tsntTff, *r«rH : — 

qfafqqT % Ftr qiqFt % Req 2 if— 

( 1 ) q* 2 F qpqF, wt no 5 Tt fttrqrq qfafe % 3 *rrq 
tf "5-fa*tT mqfq qftrtnqt, qrcnqtq” qfqfiq:; 

( 2 ) qr 4 it ^mrA" tw q ° i qq fwrot qfFfe % qtqq 
tf "i-Wt qqYFRF (^pr wfatT^r), Fo^qofoFto, 
FWtFtr” srfFfe; 

( 3 ) 7 F WUFt, T'T tto 3 qp fqtPTPT qprFfie: % ipth 
tt, " 3 . qq raw srftmff, jpqrqr” aPrfe; 

( 4 ) qq 8 % hiuA qq fl'o 3 Ftq 4 qq fFtq-qrq sfqfecff 
% wr qq, " 3 -srPr % qq- fap n y , qpqrqiq”, 3 flq "4- 
qqPfPT, vpj qvPl, TTBlVTi'” afqfrqqt; 

(5) qq 4 % qifiF, qq F® 7 qq fFsrqTq qfFFq % fqtq 
qq, 'Y-fttitq qtqqqq (Wffir wfEPFrer) , fij^q-3” 

sftlw; 

(e) qq 11 F qrqq, qw F® 3 Fk e qq fkrqTq srPfferf 
F WPT <TTj “3-fwr tTPffF (Tftrqqqt, irqqi^^q’' 
"6-u8i9q> PoMfl vi*j4q, vi'A’iIe, tr<qijnq” 

sflT 

(7) 41 15 ^ Olff'A Tq po 4 qq fqepTR qfnfe % P 4 R 
qq, ‘A-Mutr, q*T qfrq^T Ptqpr, 5^^- 

T»fV qomit 1 

[q® 434/%q*r/78 ( 2 )] 

wtvr 

Ho ffOKTffq, qlqq 


New Delhi, the 4th July, 1978 

S.O, 2124. — In exercise of Ihc powers conferred by sub- 
section (l) of scciion 22 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), the Election Commission hereby 
directs that tho following amendments shall be made in its 
notification No. 434/Kl./77(2) dated 2 February, 1977, name- 

ry— 

In column 2 of the Table appended to (he said notifica- 
tion : — 

(1) for the existing entry at serial No. 5 againsi item 2, 
the entry “5. District Supply Officer, Cannanore”; 

(2) for the existing entry at serial No, 1 against item 4, 

the entry “1. Special Deputy Collector, Land Ac- 
quisition, K.S.F..B., Kozhikode’’; 

(3) for the. existing entry at serial No. 3 against item 7, 

the entry “3. Divisional Forest Officer, Nemmara”; 

f4) for the existing entries at serial Nos. 3 and 4 against 
item 8, Ihc entries “3. Deputy Director of Agricul- 
ture, Palghut”, and “4. Deputy Commissioner, Small 
Industries, Paighat”; 

(5) for the existing entry at serial No. 7 against item 9, 

Ihc entry “7. Special Deputy Collector (Land Tri- 
bunal), Tnchiir-3’’; 

(6) for the existing entries at serial Nos. 3 and 6 against 

item 11, the entries “3, District Supply Officer, 
Eniakulum”, and “6. Assistant Development Com- 
missioner, Collectorate, Ernakulam”; and 

(7) for the existing entry at serial No. 4 against item 15, 

the entry “4. Director of Water Transport Depart- 
ment, Alleppey”, 

shall be substituted. 

[No. 434/KL/78(2)[ 

By Order, 

T. NAGARATHNAM. Secv. 

New Delhi, the 7th July, 1978 

S.O. 2125. — In pursuance of section 111 of the Represen- 
tation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), the Election 
Commission hereby publishes the report dated 1 2th June, 
1978 by ihe High Court of Judicature at Bombay, in Election 
Petition No. 1 of 1977. 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY 
ORDINARY ORIGLNATj CTV1L JURISDICTION 

Election Petition No. 1 of 1977 

Shankarrao Dattatray Mane .. .Petitioner 

VERSUS 

1. Dajiba Bnlwantrao Desai 

2. Shanuao Govind Maili 

.3. Shri D. J, Joseph. . . . Respondents 

Covnm : D. M. Rege, J, 

Date ; 12th June, 1978. 

Mr. P. R. A, shat- with Mr, B. V. Bhagat and Mr. B. N 
Singhvi — for Petitioner 

Mr. V. R. Bhandare— for Respondent No. 1. 

Respondent No. 2 absent though served. 

Mr. S. T. Tijoriwala with Miss F. Sikandar — for Res- 
pondent No. 3. 



1953 


[«mr II— flpw 3 (ii)] 


UTCT *7 22, 1978/OT7T? 31, 1900 


ORAL ORDER 


AND 


This is a petition for a declaration that the Election of 
the Petitioner to the House of People from 48-Kolhapur 
Parliamentary Constituency at the election held on 16th 
March, 1977, was void and for the declaration that the peti- 
tioner had been duly elected at the said election for the 
purpose of Respondent No. 1, To this petition, Respondent 
No. 1 had also taken a Recrimination Notice. 

After the pleadings were completed, at the hearing it was 
initially contended by the learned Counsel for the 1st res- 
pondent that the petition was defective and not maintain- 
able as sufficient relevant facta and particulars to support 
the grounds of attack were not to be found in the petition. 

I had tried the said contention as a preliminary contention 
and held by my separate orders that the petition was defec- 
tive as the petition did not itself furnish the particulars or 
material facta supporting the ground of challenge to the 
election. 

After the petitioner's evidence was partially recorded, in 
the course of the proceedings the petitioner filed an affidavit 
dated 9h December (977 applying for the withdrawal of 
the petition on the ground that Court had already held that 
the petition did not give any material facts to support the 
contentions and that the petitioner was not in a position to 
furnish the same. I had directed the petitioner to publish the 
said application for withdrawal in the Gazette as required 
by the Representation of the People Act and the rules made 
thereunder. The same was published in the Government of 
India Gazette dated 8-4-1978 which has been produced before 
me and han been taken on file. The notice of the said with- 
drawal application was also given to all other parties to the 
petition. They have raised no objection to the same. I also 
find that the application for the withdrawal of the petition 
is bonafide and the same has not been made by way of any 
bargain or consideration. In the result, I grant the said appli- 
cation and allow the petitioner to withdraw the petition. 

Ag regards coats, the Advocate for Respondent No. 1 docs 
not press for costs of the petition. The petitioner however 
to pay to Respondent No. 3 costs of the petition fixed at 
Rs, 1200. The said costs to be paid out of the deposit made 
by the petitioner in thiy court and the balance of the amount 
to be returned to the petitioner. 

Respondent No. 1 has also taken out a Recrimination 
Notice and at that time he had also given a certain security 
deposit. In view of the petitioner withdrawing the petition 
the said Recrimination Notice docs not survive. Liberty to 
Respondent No. 1 to withdraw the security deposit made 
by him in the said Notice. 

Under the provisions of Section I II of (he Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, it is directed that the substance of 
this decision should be communicated to the Election Com- 
mission New Delhi, 

The Prothonotary to act on the minutes of the Order. 

(Seal) 

INo. 82/MT /l(Bombay)/77] 
V. NAGASUBRAMANIAN, Secy, 


New Delhi, the 13th July, 1978 

&0. 2126. — In pursuance of section 106 of the Representa- 
tion of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), the Election 
Commission hereby publishes the judgment of the High 
Court of Judicature, Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad dated 
27 March, 1978 in Election Petition No. 2 of 1977. 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE : ANDHRA 
PRADESH: AT HYDERABAD 

Monday, the 27th of March 1978 


PRESENT ; 


1. Sri B. Rajagopal Naidu. 


2. Sri P, M. Yerrappa Naidu. 

3, Sri Yellera Bayalu Rami Reddi. ,, Respondents. 

Election Petition under Sections 80, 80-A and 81 of 
Representation of People Act 1951 praying that for the 
reasons mentioned in the Petition, this High Court will be 
pleased to declare that the election of the returned Candidate 
Sri B. Rajagopal Naidu (R-l) from the Chittoor Parlia- 
mentary Constitutency (No, 21 Lok Sabha Constituency) to 
be void that the Petitioner herein be declared duly elected 
and to award costs. 


This petition coming on for hearing, on Wednesday the 
15th, Thursday the 16th, Friday the 17th, Monday the 
20th, Tuesday the 21st, Wednesday the 22nd days of 
February 1978 and Wednesday the 2nd of March 1978 upon 
perusing the Petition and the affidavit dated 4-5-1977 filed 
bv the petitioner in support of this Petition and the counter- 
affidavit dated 13-10-1977 filed by the Respondent No. 1 
and the rejoinder dated 4-11-1977 and upon hearing the 
arguments of M/s. M. B. Rama Sarma, S. Krishna Mohan, 
V V Chandrasckharun, C. Subrahmanyam and V. 
kanlha Naidu Advocates for the Petitioner and of M/s. P. 
A Chowdary, P. Venkayamma, B. V. Subbaiah B. V. 

Varadhana and S. Suryaprakasa Rao A ^ v0C ^j eS 3 having 
respondent No. 1 and respondent ^ os • , 

remained absent and set-exparte and the < J av ^ St< S“ 
over for consideration till this day, the Court made 

following Order : — 

Lok Sabha scat number twenty one covers electors m 
Seven Assembly Constituencies viz., Vepanjen, Chittoor 
Palamancr! Kuppam, Punganur, Piler and Chandragjrt and 
for that seat (also known as Chittoor constituency) 

“ n u.,d on 16-3-1977. The candidates were N. P. 
Changalraya Naidu the petitioner; P. M. Yerrappa Naidu 
PheSecond respondent , Ye I lata Bayaffi Rajmreddvffi 
third respondent and B. Rajagopal Naidu the Congress 
Party candidate— the first respondent who was declared 
'returned* on 20-3-1977 for h c had secured' 10,500 more 
votes than the petitioner the next highest (2,29,uu«--i 
2 18 710) The petitioner questioned the 'return in election 
petition lodged on 4-5-1977 and alleged /Congress Parfr n 
the State of Andhra Pradesh through State Employees , 
Government Machinery’ and through ‘quasi-Goverjiment 
bodies’ unduly influenced voters. The Chief Mlmster 
’promoted the prospects of his party candidate. The retu 
ned candidate, his election agent Sri A. Snnivasulu Naidu 
were alleged guilty of corrupt practice® defined in i Section 
123 of the Act XLII1 of 1951. Two instances within the 
meaning of sub-clause (b) of Clause (1)(A) and two under 
sub-clause (b) of clause (1KB). eleven instances of the 
Category in sub-section (2), five under sub-section (5), fi e 
of the category in sub-section 7(a), two in sub-section 7(d? 
and three instances of the kind in sub-section 7(g) of 
Corrupt practices (overlapping apart) were averred in the 
petition and praved to set aside the return on 20-3-19/7 
and further prayed the election petitioner be declared 
i-wti-H to the Cnmtituencv. 


The petition was resisted by the returned (Congress) 
candidate. The other respondents have not participated in 
the enquiry. The contestant traversed all adverse allegations 
made against him, his election agent and denied the State 
Government, the Chief Minister, the Chairman of the 
Rayalaseema Development Board and the ’Government 
bodies’ havo had not promoted his ‘election prospects’. The 
other adverse allegations in the petition were averred 
‘fabricated’, ‘woven’ and ‘false’. The Chief Minister and 
N. P. Vecraraphavulu Naidu (Chairman) it was averred, 
did not assist the first respondent in any manner after the 
nomination was filed by him on 14-2-1977. 


The Hon’ble Mr. Justice Raghuvir 
Election Petition No. 2 of 1977 
BETWEEN 

Sri N. P, Chengalraya Naidu. ..Petitioner. 


The disputes thus raisced were the subject of as many as 
twenty nine issues framed on 25-11-1977, After the wit- 
nesses are examined on 16-2-1978 Issue No. 3. on 17-2-1978 
Issues 9, 10, 19 to 23 and on 20-2-1978 Issue 25, in the 
course of the debate, were given up by the election 
petitioner. 



1954 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1 978/AS ADH A 31, 1900 


The answers to Issues (26 to 29) depended on accep- 
tance of evidence of forty five witnesses and sixty six 
documents in ‘A’ scries. (The returned candidate in 
rebuttal had examined twenty six witnesses and adduced 
thirty four documents). There was no issue in the nature 
of recrimination raised by the first respondent. 

At the outset way it be stated ‘corrupt practice’ is an 
election ‘offence’ and has been judicially held the standard 
of proof required to prove such an offence is of the degree 
required in a criminal trial. That was stated in Anjaneya 
Reddy v. Gangi Reddy (1) 21 E.L.R. 247, by the Supreme 
Court and followed In many other cases. 

There are two instances in which it is alleged the returned 
candidate with the consent of his election agent hired 
or procured Vehicles and in one case it is averred vehicles 
belonging to the Police Department of the State were used 
for transporting electors to the booths. Issues one and 
two relate to transportation of voters by the police depart- 
ment, 

Sri Vasudeva Reddy, the Sub Inspector of Police of I 
Town Police Station, Chittoor, on 16-3-1977 it is averred 
visited Samireddipalli in the van of Police department 
AAX 5528, transported electors to Ugranapalli polling 
booth. The Deputy Superintendent of Police, Sri Sowri 
Reddy, reached Ugranapalli in a jeep APX 5292 Vehicle 
and APT 2509 followed. The Deputy Superintendent of 
Police is alleged to have “ordered” to transport voters 
from Samireddipalli and Sri Vasudeva Reddy in compliance 
is reported^ to have transported one hundred voters in 
each trip in two trips in police vans. The allegation was 
denied by the returned candidate. 

The Vehicles referred in the evidence of witnesses ate 
the following: Police Van AAX 5528, Police Lorry A AT 
2509 and a jeep APX 5292. The diary relating to APT 2509 
is marked as Ex. A-51. 

The Police Constable, Sri Srinivasulu, is the scribe of 
tho entry in Ex. A-51 diary and has been examined 
(P.W. 5). Ex. A-52 extract of the diary dated 16-3-1977 
begins at 6,00 a m. Hnd at 6.10 a.m. P.W. 5 cleaned the vehi- 
cle At 2.30 p.m. the vehicle along with P.W. 5 reached Sami- 
reddipalli and ‘took Harijans to vote from Samireddipalli 
to Ugranapalli polling booth with police protection again 
came to Samireddipalli for “tho second trip”, “took the 
voters to Ugranapalli went to Guntapalli lo Penumur and from 
from Ugranapalli went to Guntapalli, to Penumur and from 
thebe went to Vadderapalli and reached Ugranapalli ‘at 
6 p.m. '. At “6.30 p.m. from Ugranapalli the Vehicle started 
to Chittoor” and at 6.00 a.m. the next day the diary for 
16-3-1977 was closed and P.W. 5 reported to D.R.I, 

P.W. 5 a constable at Chittoor is attached to A.R. 
Party. APT 2509 he deposed is a 1-1 /2 tonner van, and 
can carry ten or twelve persons. He made entries in A-51 
diary and signed the sheet. The diary contains the details 
of movement for the entire day and it is written by the 
witness and was counter-signed by the R.I. on the same 
day (16-3-1977). The vehicle was moved from place to 
place at the instance of the R.I.R, Reserve Inspector 
(Question No. 28) and deposed “two trips” to Samireddi- 
palli were made to transport voters. He was at the wheel 
throughout tho journey. In the first trip the witness deposed 
S.L of Police was present and in the second trip the R.S.I. 
was present (Q. No, 36). 

P.W. 7 is P. Sreenivasulu, R.S.I. posted at Chittoor who 
speaks of log book of APT 2509, AAX 5528 and APX 5192. 
He was on 16-3-1977 duty as orderly R.S.I. (Question 
No. 11) and under instructions of the R.S.T., the Vehicle 
APT 2509 was taken for duty from Chittoor to Ugrana- 
palli and returned to Head Quarters at 6 00 p.m. He was 
with the vehicle throughout. At Ugranapalli he reported to 
the Deputy Superintendent of Police. The Vehicle was 
used under the directions of the Deputy Superintendent 
of Police (Question No. 17). He deposed : 

"Q. 18. What direction did the Dy. S.P. give for the 
used of the vehicle 7 

A. He directed one S:I. to get some people front 
Samireddipalli to Ugranapalli. 


[ Part II — Sec. 3(ij)J 


Q. 19. What did the S.I, do after the directions of tUS 
Dy. S.P. ? 

A. The S.I. want to Samireddipalli with the vehicle 
A.P.T, 2509”. 

The trips to these villages the witness deposed were 
entered in the log book by P.W. 5, ‘The Vehicles main- 
tained by the Police Department arc pick-up vans, jeeps 
and motor cycles”. "APT 2509 is a 1-1 /2 tonner which 
is impossible to accommodate for one hundred persons”. 
'APT 2509 can accommodate twelve to fourteen persons". 

I he witness does not know the capacity of APT 2509. The 

R.S.I. Sri T, G. Ramachandran was in-charge of Vehicles. 
He along with the twelve Special Armed Police reported 
at Ugranapalli to the Deputy Superintendent of Police as 
directed by the R.S.I. (Q. No. 32). There was no distur- 
bance at the polling booth, It wat suggested during 
elections several reports were received by the authorities 
of Harjans being prevented from ‘reaching’ polling statons 
to exercise their franchise. The witness answered he does 
not know (Q. No. 48). 

P.W. 1 is a triune officer of Mopireddipalli village, who 
was present on duty at Ugranapalli polling booth. The 
distance between the two villages is one mile. He was 
assigned the duty of identification of voters by the Tahsildar 
at Ugranapalli (Q. No, 9), P.W. 2, the village Munsif, and 
tho talari of the village were present. The three witnesses 
were at work from 8.00 a.m. At 3.30 p.m. the S.I. of 
Police (Examined as R.W. 6) came in a van and transpor- 
ted voters. He deposed each time the vehicle came one 
hundred voters got down from the lorry (Q, No. 44). The 
polling booth is located in a school building covered by 
walls on four sides. It was suggested to the witness was 
busy in the booth and could not have seen persons coming 
to Ihe place because of the height of the walls. The wit- 
ness speaks the S.I, of Police, Deputy Superintendent of 
Police came and stayed at twenty or thirty yards away 
from the compound wall in a jeep and lorry and the 
witness had not seen the vehicles (Q. No. 67). In his 
estimation there were fifteen in one vehicle and one 
hundred “people” in another were brought in each trip 
of police vehicles from Samireddipalli (Q. No. 70). The 
witness deposed he was sitting at Booth from 6.00 a.m. to 
10.00 p.m, (Q. No. 71). and admits was not actually 
present when instructions were given by the Dy. S.P. to 
the Sub Inspector of Police but deposed to have heard 
instructions uttered (Q. No. 76). It was suggested to him 
Vcnugopal Reddy (P.W. 4) and the witness belong to 
lanata Party. The suggestions denied. 

P.W. 4 Venugopal Reddy a resident of Samireddipalli 
and is an agriculturist. He ‘belonged’ to Janata Party and 
acted as polling agent and was present at Ugranapalli 
polling booth till 1.00 p.m. and again at 2.30 p.m, he 
came out of the booth when P.W, 3 Gangam Naidu came 
to the Booth. The S.I. of Police, Sri Vasudeva Reddy, 
came in a police van the Witness deposed carrying fifteen 
persons to the polling booth (Q. No, 15). At about 4.00 p.m. 
the Deputy Superintendent of Police at Chittoor came to 
booth followed by a police lorry and directed the Sub- 
Inspector to transport voters from Samireddipalli. The 
Sub Inspector then returned in a vehicle with one hundred 
voters. It was suggested to the witness, he was a teacher and 
had resigned the post and contested for 'Teachers Consti- 
tuency” in Legislative Council in 1976 and was a teacher 
who had obtained P,E. Teachers’ training. The witness was 
suggested he was not. a polling agent (Q. No. 33). The 
witness denied the suggestion, It was suggested that he did 
not “put a public phone call” to the authorities protesting 
of transportation of voters either to the District Collector 
or to the Superintendent of Police, Chittoor, The witness 
said he did not do, 

R.W, 2 is Ramachandra Reddy, the Village Munsiff of 
Samireddipalli. A resident of Ugranapalli was present at 
the booth on the direction of the Tahsildar, alone with 
P.W. 1. The Village servants were present for identification 
of electoral. The witness went there at 6.00 a.m. The 
voting, began al 8.00 a.m. and concluded by 5.00 p.m. 
(Q. No. 10). At about 3,30 p.m, the witness deposed the 
Sub Inspector )f Police brought fifteen persons to vote. 
“The van is a blue-coloured van". The Deputy Superintendent 



1955 


[*rrr II — 3 (ii)] 'ffra •ft 


o'? Police came in a jeep and a police lorry followed 
All this “happened" between 3.00 p.m. and 4.30 p.nr. In 
the lorry there were one hundred persons transported. At 

4.30 p.m. the Deputy Superintendent of Police left and so 
also ‘the lorry’. It was suggested he belonged to Janata 
party. The witness denied. He ‘observed’ the arrival of 
Vehicles was the answer to Q. No. 30. The witness either 
to Police or Revenue Official or Election Authorities did 
not complain (Q. No. 34) and deposed Venugopal Reddy 
(P.W. 4) and Gangam Naidu (P.W. 3) have had protested 
to the D.S.P. about the transportation of voters (Q. No. 39). 
It was suggested the witness was a follower of the election 
petitioner from 1951 and was deposing falsely (Q, No. 47). 
The witness answered his answers were true. 

P.W. 3, Gangam Naidu, is an agriculturist, Sarapanch of 
Venugumambapuram village, Ex-Vice President of Ganga- 
dhara Nellore Panchayat Samithi, was the Vice President 
of Janata Party in Chittoor district. The witness worked 
for six mon'hs as Surveyor before 1954 and later 
as a teacher, He deposed voters were brought at 2 or 

2.30 p.m. by Sri Vasudeva Reddy, the Sub Inspector of 
Police who was known to the witness. “Fifteen persons 
were brought in the Police Van”. A jeep came in which 
the Deputy Superintendent of Police visited the Polling 
booth”. Thereafter the Sub Inspector of Police was directed 
by D.S.P. to transport voters from Samireddipalli. The 
Sub Inspector took the Vehicle at 4.30 p.m. brought one 
hundred electors who came and voted. It was suggested 
why he had not made a complaint to the police authorities 
(Q. No. 16), The witness supported the petitioner in the 
Election was admitted and that Venugopala Reddy and 
himself were natives of Samireddipalli, He has been visiting 
polling booths on 16-3-1977 as to assess the prospects of 
Janata party candidate. He knows the villagers of Sami- 
reddipalli. It was suggested whether he has made any 
attempt to inform the District Collector or any “high” 
authority about these irregularities. He did not (Q. No, 37). 
It was suggested he was not present at the polling boolh 
on 1 6-3-1977. The suggestion was denied (Q. No. 64). 

The next witnesses is P.W. 6, a washerman, aged about 
thirty-live years, a resident of Samireddipalli who deposed 
at 4.00 p.m. the ‘Police l.orry’ came and some one in the 
lorry asked whether he had voted to which he said he did 
not (Q. No. 7). Then along with others he was asked to 
get into the lorry. About thirty or forty persons got into 
the lorry, There was in the Vehicle Sub Inspector of Police 
and two constables. The Sub Inspector the witness deposed 
asked them to vote for cow-and-calf. They were taken 
to Ugranapalli (Q. No, 12) polling booth and were left at 
the gate. Like the witness one hundred persons were there 
in the Vehicle. They returned by walk to the village 
(Q. No. 19). He was asked whether there was any seating 
facility. He said in the vehicle every body had to stand 
(Q. No. 34). The witness could give the particulars of 
twenty to thirty persons who were standing. (Q. No, 37). 
The witness knew P.W. 4 since his childhood He does riot 
have "dealings” with P.W. 4 (Q. No. 49), The vehicle 
was stopped at the gate of the booth to Q. No. 68 was the 
answer. 

P.W. 8 Desi Naidu, agriculturist, resident of Jetti Gundla- 
palli attached to Ugranapalli polling booth. He was "Congress 
polling agent" of the returned candidate. One hundred per- 
sons got down, he deposed, from the police vehicle to vote 
at 4.30 p,m. (Q.Nos. 10 and 11). It was suggested to the 
witness he was not speaking truth for he was a congressman 
and deposing against the returned candidate. He accepted there 
were groups in Congress organisation in Chittoor district but 
the witness answered he was not concerned with “factions”. 
He was given the polling agent form by Narasimba Reddy of 
Pulikallu village and spoke to the presence of Venugopal 
Reddy, (P.W, 4). 

P.W. 9 Muniratnam a ‘Cooly’, resident of Samireddipalli, 
exercised franchic at Ugrpanapalli polling booth. At 4,00 
p.m. when he was in the village, a police van came, and in 
the seated the Sub Inspector of Police, asked him whethet 
the witness had voted and on being answered in the negative, 
was asked to get into the vehicle to go to the polling both. 
The witness along with othcis were taken to Ugranapalli pol- 
ling booth who all relurned by walk to the village after had 


TTTf 22, 1 9 7 8/*TT9T$' 3l, 1900 


“voted". There were standing one hundred persons like him 
in the vehicle (Q.No.8). He knows P.W, 4 for the last seven 
or eight years and had not “discussed” with him or any body 
about the transportation of voters (Q.No,24) except P.W.4. 
The witness was aksed lo give the names of other persons. 
He said he could give four or live names (Q.No.25). 

P.W. 10 Dasaiah belongs to Samireddipalli, is a cooly and 
exercised his vote. The witness was at the village. At about 
4.00 p.m, a police lorry came to the village “to take” the 
voters and about one hundred persons got into a lorry. The 
voters were taken to Ugranapalli polling booth. All having 
voted reurned by walk. It was suggested he was speaking 
falsehood, 

R.Ws. 3, 5 and 6 were examined in rebuttal. R.W. 3 V. 
Subrahmanya Naidu a resident of Tatti gundlapalli attached 
to Ugranapalli booth. The witness is a graduate and not em- 
ployed, does not belong to any party and on the day was 
issuing polling chits to electors, sitting under a tamarind tree 
at a distance of one hundred yards away from booth. The 
witness deposed no police van brought voters, denied to have 
witnessed any dispute raised by P.W. 4 at the booth for Venu- 
gopala Reddy (P.W. 4) the witness said “was in the polling 
booth till 5.00 p.m.” and never came out. It was suggested to 
the witness a job was offered by the returned candidate for 
his prevarication which was denied (Q. No. 20) 

P.W. 5, V, Krishnam Naidu, a resident of Jattigundlapalli 
exercised his vote at 2.00 p.m. waited till 5.00 p.m. at the 
booth and denied to have seen voters brought by the police 
personnel in vans. It was suggested the ‘first respondent’s 
junior paternal uncle’s daughter was given in marriage in the 
village’. The involved suggestion was denied. The witness 
deposed he had taken poll chit from R.W.3 and (Q.No.10), 
Does not belong to any party. 

R.W, 6 Sri Vasudeva Reddy is the Sub-Inspector of Police, 
deposed at 11.30 a.m. the Superintendent of Police, Chittoor. 
instructed him to go over to Penumuru for the “the weaker 
sections were prevented by influential persons”. At Ugranapalli 
the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Chittoor, instructed him 
to go over to Sumireddipalli and see “no voter was prevent- 
ed" from exercising franchise therefore be visited Samired- 
dipalii Harijanawnda and asked them to go to polling booths 
from their village (Q.No.l). So much the witness admitted 
but denied to have transported voters in a police van or 
the D.S.P. instructed him to transport voters. He made his 
first trip at 1,30 p.m. and at 2.30 p.m, the second trip. He 
left for Penumuru and did not go to Ugranapalli village 
again. He was asked about the identification ‘number’ of vehi- 
cles which the witness could not give, The witness saw APT 
2509 at Ugranapalli polling booth and deposed R.S.l. brought 
it. AAX 5528 was given to him (Q. No. 14). The witness was 
asked APT 2509 whether was used on that day for transpor- 
tation of voters to which the witness answered he does not 
know (0- No. 15), A direct question was asked that the 
D.S.P. asked him lo transport voters from Samireddipalli and 
the answer was in the negative (Q. No. 16). He was asked 
whether lie look APT 2509 and transported the voters. 
The witness denied. 

The resume of the evidence show, the police jeep, vans 
and other vehicle were seen at Ugranapalli polling booth. The 
S. I. of Police Sri Vasudeva Reddy (R. W.6) uccepts the 
Vehicles were taken to Samireddipalli. The driver P.W.5 main- 
tained A-51 log book and the entries speak of transportation 
of Voters. The R.S.l. corroborates the entries recorded in 
A-52. On the above evidence there is no hesitation to hold 
"Police Vehicles” were used on 16-3-'77. The Deputy Super- 
intendent of Police asked hie Sub Inspector R.W-6 to go 
over to Samireddipalli and bring Harijans "to vote” so that 
R.W-6 stated they may vole “fearlessly”. The evidence of 
P.W.7 in this regard is frank and forth-right. The oral evi- 
dence is fully corroborated by the entires in A-51. The allega- 
tion that voters were transported stands proved even if the 
evidence of P.W.8 is ignored. Issues 1 and 2 arc as follows - 

“1. Whether Sri Vasudeva Reddy, S.I. of Police, I Town 
Police Station, Chittoor, with the knowledge and 
consent of 1st respondent and his ejection agent, 
on 16-3-1977 procured voters from Samireddipalli 
Harijatniwada and transported them in a police Van 



1956 GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22 , 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 


AAX 5528 to Ugranapalli polling booth and thus the 
respondent committed corrupt practice under Section 
123 of Representation of Poeples Act ? 

2. Whether the Sub Inspector, I Town police station, 
Chittoor, transported 100 persons to polling booth 
on 16-3-1977 at 4-45 p.m, in Police Lorry No. AAF 
2509 from Diguvamalupalli, Eguvamalapalli and 
Harijanawada of Samireddipalli under the instruc- 
tions of Deputy Superintendent of Police Sri Sown 
Reddy as described in para-6 of the petition and 
whether those voters who agreed to vote for Con- 
gress nominees were transported free of cost and 
whether the alleged use of police force was at the re- 
quest of the 1st respondent and his election agent to 
further the prospects of the 1st respondent’s election 
and by this alleged corrupt practice whether 500 
vo*es which would have been polled for petitioner 
were interfered with ?” 

The issues as a question of fact of the transportation of 
voters is held proved. The question is whether voters were 
transported at the instance of the returned candidate or the 
election-agent. There is no evidence connecting "transporta 
tion” of voters to the consent of the returned candidate. 

A notice was issued to the Deputy Superintendent of Police 
on 27-2-1978 as to why proceedings under S. 99 of the Act 
should not be taken and as to that more anon. 

The next instance of transportation of voters relates to 
"six villages” and it is convenient to begin the narration by 
what is deposed by Eswara Reddy, the Revenue Divisional 
Officer, Chittoor, examined by the returned candidate. This 
unusual course is adopted for transportation is accepted to 
have occurred by the agent of the returned candidate and all 
the witnesses examined in this regard. The witness (R.W.-10) 
retired from service on 31-10-1977. He deposed the District 
Collector, Chittoor, caused arrangements of transportation 
of voters in six villages. This witness had investigated “the 
truth or otherwise" of complaints of Harijans made in Exs. 
B. 13 to B.30. (dated either 16-3-1977 or 17-3-1977) Some 
Complaints the witness said were investigated by the Deputy 
Tahsildar. His own investigation resulted in report (Ex. B-31) 
on 19-3-1977 to hold Harijans were “not prevented" from 
exercising franchise but the "real” complaint was according 
to findings many names of Harijans were not ‘found’ in the 
electoral roll, 

R.W. 7 G. K. Mahadevan is (he village karnam and R.W. 
26 G. Ramachandra Reddy, the village Munsif of Gandla 
palli, These witnesses deposed on 15-3-1977 the Deputy 
Tahsildar at Bangarupalem handed over two lorries for trans- 
porting voters at the instance of the District Collector on the 
next day. R.W, 26 was asked in chief examination as : 

”4. Q. Were any lorries entrusted to you on 15-3-1977 
by the Dy. Tahsildar, Bangarupalem P.W. 13 ? 

A. Yes. Two lorries were handed over to me by P.W, 13 
on 15-3-1977 evening. 

5. Q. For what purpose were the lorries entrusted to you 
by P.W. 13 7 

A. As there was a wrong allotment of voters in respect 
of the two polling booths i.e., Chukkavaripalli voters 
were allotted to Gundlapally booth and Gundlapally 
voters were allotted to Chukkavaripalli booth P.W. 
13 entrusted the above two lorries for transportation 
of voters between the above two polling booths”. 

P.W. 13 was Election Deputy Tahsildar, Chittoor. At Banga- 
rupalem he deposed the District Collector convened the meet- 
ing of Tahsildars and Deputy Tahsildars for arrangement of 
elections as per Ex. A-6 (22-2-1977) proceedings the chart 
shows vehicles, polling stations lorries and jeeps and the 
number of routes in which Vehicles were employed. Ex, A-7 
statement shows particulars polling stations, number of lorries 
and jeeps required for elections and thirteen lorries were 
requisitioned, Ex. A-10 is the proceedings of the District 


Collector, Chittoor. dated 9-3-1977 issued to the petrol dealers 
■to supply petrol. Ex. A-l I is ihe statement of expenditure in 
curred for Chittoor, Assembly Constituency. The District Col- 
ieclor, Chittoor, issued on 15-3-1977 telephonic instructions 
to revenue officials directing voters to be ‘transported’. On 
receipt of instructions the Tahsildar, Chittoor, deployed vehi- 
cles requisitioned for other election ‘purpose’. 

These witnesses of the returned candidate are referred at 
the outset for in answer or in the counter to the election 
petition the allegations made in this regard were denied. On 
16-3-77 it was averred (in the counter) voters were not 
transported. The returned candidate accepted in the box voters 
were transported in six villages (a) Muthurevulapalli (booth 
No. 42), Bandlapalli (booth No. 43), (b) Gundlopalli 
(booth No. 99) Chukkavaripalli (booth No. 100), (c) 

Diguva Modugulapalli (booth No. 107) and T. Putliur (booth 
No. 108). 

In the six villages the locution of polling stations (along 
with others) were published on 27-T1977 inviting objections 
and on 3-2-1977 objections were considered under S.2J of the 
Act and after approval from the Election Commission a final 
list of Booths was published on 18-2-77 by the Reluming 
Officer The “anomaly” or “mistake” affecting six villages was 
‘detected’ on 15-3-77 and the District Collector as a rectifica- 
tion measure transported voters at the expense of the Govern- 
ment. It is not therefore necessary to deal except in brief the 
evidence adduced in this regard showing the proof of issue* 
four, five and six. 

P.W. 17 is the Huzur Head Accountant, Chittoor, Collectn- 
rate deposed the District Collector “instructed the Revenue 
Officials to transport voters.” 

This curious fact came to be true because under S.25 of 
the Act Muthurevulapalli voters list was not appended to 
polling Booth No. 42 located in the village but was appended 
to Bandlapalli polling booth (Booth No 43). Bandlapalli 
voters list was appended to Muthurevulapalli polling booth 
(Booth No. 42). Like wise voters list in Gundlapalli was 
appended to Chukkaveripalli polling booth (Booth No. 100). 
Chukkavaripalli voters list was appended to Gundlapalli booth 
No. 99. The voters list of Dignva Modugupalli was appended 
to T. Puthur booth (Booth No. 108) and T. Puthur voters 
list was appended to Diguva Modugulapalli (Booth No. 107). 

The District Collector, Chittoor, naturally received com- 
plaints of the "errors". Thereupon orders were issued by the 
Collector to revenue officials to transport voters at Govern- 
ment expense. APC. 5223, APC. 4912, two lorries transported 
voters between Booth Nos. 42 and 43, APC. 230 and APC. 
2377 lorries transport'd voters between rolling booth Nos. 
99 and 100 APC. 7189 a tractor with trailor attached (APC. 
8794) MDH 5004 is a tractor Trailor MYH 4522 was attached 
to that vehicle. These vehicles and APC. 7329 vehicle plied 
between polling booth Nos. 107 and 108 and transport voters. 

P.W. 12 is the driver of APC 230. P.W. 11 is the owner 
and driver of APC 2377. P.W. 24 is the driver of APC 4912, 
Ex. A-16 is the entry showing hire charges were paid to the 
driver. APC 5223 driver, however, is not examined. The entry 
in Ex, A-l 5 shows the hire charges were paid. P.W. 20 is the 
driver and owner of APC 7189. He was examined to show 
hire charges for APC 7189 were paid. Ex. A-17 is the entry. 
P.W. 21 is the driver of MDH 5004 and of the owner. Ex. 
ATS shows the hire charges were paid to P.W. 21 P.W. 22 is 
the owner of APC 7329 who deposed to have claimed from 
the Collector (in a petition) for hire charges as he was not 
paid. 

These documents and the evidence of the witnesses need 
no elaborate discussion for in the box the returned candidate 
has examined witnesses showing voters were transported bet- 
ween the booths of six villages, As to the Vehicles whether 
they were “bedecked’ with portraits and with cow and calf 
there was no admission by the witnesses, 

R.W.ll is the sarpmich of Muthurevula Gram Panchayat. 
He was the first person to have represented the District Collec- 
tor about the resulting inconvenience to the voters, Govindra- 
julu is P.W. 11. He deposed as under : 



fOTir II — tarns 3 (ii)] 


■nrcr *rt thtost 22, 1 


1957 


“7. Q. When was the lorry taken by the Tahsildar, Chit- 
toor ? 

A. My lorry was taken on the evening of 15-3-1977 by 
the Tahsildar. It was taken to the Taluk Office 
Chittoor. At the Taluk Office my vehicle was hand- 
ed over to the Deputy Tahsildar of Bangarupalem. 

A clerk from Taluk Office came and he along with 
a Deputy Tahsildar took my lorry and got filled up 
with diesel oil. I also saw at the petrol bunk a lorry 
bearing registration No. APC. 230. Bangarupalem 
Dy. Tahsildar directed me and the other vehicle to 
follow him to Gundlapalli village. The Dy. Tahsildar 
went in a jeep. This was at about 4.30 in the evening. 
The jeep went in first followed by APC. 230 and I 
followed them in the rear and we reached Gundla- 
palli at about 5.30 p.m.” 

R.W. 22 is the voter who travelled in the vehicle. The 
vehicles were not ‘"bedecked” with flags. The vehicles were 
not bedecked with portraits of Smt. Indira Gandhi or cow- 
and-calf. R.W. 23 is another witness of having availed of 
transport amenities deposed the vehicles contained no flags. 
R.W. 12 is the Upa Sarpanch of Muthurevula. P.W. 23 a 
voter deposed he wanted to travel because he was not a 
Congress party member, and was not allowed to travel “by 
persons who were having the control” of the vehicles. P.W. 23 
R. Subbareddy a resident of Muthurevula deposed : 

“5. Q. Were any persons present at the lorry ? 

A. Yes. I saw two or three persons with badges near the 
lorry. It contains the emblem of cow and calf. I 
went near that lorry and they told me that Congress 
people alone should enter the lorry and others should 
not get into the lorry. I again went a little distance. 
Some of our villagers, Anianeyulureddy and Govinda 
Reddy walk to Bandlapalli. There I voted. Then I 
stayed there for about hour. I saw two lorries trans- 
porting persons to and from Bandlapalli and to and 
from Muthurevula. The other lorry also had the 
same decorations as the one I saw Muthurevula. 1 
would have seen during my stay at Bandlapalli for 
two hours each of the Vehicles making about two 
trips. At about 1.00 noon I returned to my village 
by walk. I also saw some persons going in carts 
(Bullocks).” 

R.W. 7 is the villages Karnam of Gundlapalli having 
twenty one hamlets. 1,800 voters list was appended to that 
village. The distance between the two villages was four miles. 
R. W. 7 deposed in answer as under. 

“1 do not know. The lorries were handed over to the 
Munsif.” (Q. No. 12). 

The following question was put to the witness in chief 
examination : 

“16. Q. Were the two lorries decorated with flags 7 

A. Yes. They were having flags.” 

The answer would show even a witness of the returned 
candidate deposed voters were transported, Vehicles were 
bedecked with flags. The other witnesses examined R.Ws. 12 
and 23 however did not speak of flags over Vehicles”. 

The issues raised in this regrad are as follows : — 

"4 Whether the Deputy Tahsildar, Bangarupalem under 
instructions from the Tahsildar of Chandragiri, in- 
structed lorry drivers of the lorries APC 230 and 
APC 2377 to transport voters from Gundlapalli and 
sorrounding villages to Chukkavaripalle polling sta- 
tion and also transport voters of Chukkavari- 
palle and surrounding villages to polling sta- 
tion No. 99 and whether the voters were transported 
on 16-3-77 as described in para 8 of the Election 
petition and whether this alleged corrupt practice 
was pushed through with the knowledge and consent 
of the 1st tespondent and his election agent in fui- 
therance of a plan to win election and whether 1,500 
voters were lost by the petitioner and gained by the 
1st respondent by this alleged corrupt practice and 


whether the hire charges for the aforesaid lorries 
were paid by the Tahsildar, Chandragiri 7 

5. Whether the Deputy Tahsildar, Bangarupalem on the 

instructions of Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh and 
the Tahsildar, Chittoor, arranged for transport of 
voters on 16-3-77 from Diguvamodugulapalli, booth 
No. 108. T. Puthur to Booth No. 107 Diguvamodu- 
gulapalle" on three tractors as described in para-9 
of the Election Petition and that the hire charges 
were paid out of Government funds through the 
medium of Deputy Tahsildar ? Whether the Tt res- 
pondent and his election agent are parties to the 
above corrupt practice whether the petitioner lost 
800 votes and 1st respondent gained those 800 votes. 

6. Whether on instructions of the Tahsildar, Chittoor, 

and Revenue Officers of Government, voters were 
transported in two lorries from Somireddipalli vil- 
lage and sorrounding village to Bandlapalle polling 
station by lorry No. 4912 (APC) and voters from 
Bandlapalle and sorrounding village to Somireddi- 
palle polling station by lorry APC. 5223 as described 
in para 10 of the Election Petition and Whether this 
alleged corrupt practice was brought about with 
the knowledge andi consent of the 1st respondent 
and whether the respondent had benefited by 1,000 
votes having been polled in his favour depriving the 
petitioner of the said votes ? 

As of fact these issues on the basis of the evidence may be 
answered holding voters were transported at the instance of 
the District Collector and Revenue Officials. The issue is 
were they transported with consent of the returned candidate 
or his election agent. R.W. 1 the election agent of the returned 
candidate answered to question No. 23 as under : 

“Just prior two days prior to the date of election some of 
my people from those villages and also from some 
other villages in the constituency came to me and 
complained that the polling booths were so arranged 
that they could not have any access to the polling 
booths since a large number of voters from Gundla- 
palli have been allotted to the polling booth at Chuk- 
kavaripalli and vice-versa, similarly in the other four 
villages also. So I represented to the returning Officer 
the Dt. Collector that the voters are feeling incon- 
venience and that the polling booths might be chang- 
ed to facilitate easy polling by the voters. The Dist. 
Collector said it was impossible to change the polling 
booths at the late hour and that in view of the pub- 
lic convenience, the other party has made such re- 
presentation and in view of this, he promised that 
had already arranged transport facility in those parti- 
cular areas where the voters are put to inconvenience 
on account of wrong done by the Government 
itself.” 

R.W. 1 further deposed : 

“82. Q. Do you know about the transport arrangement 
made in respect of any booths during the election ? 

A. Till now I do not know. 

83. Q. In your capacity as election agent did you find 

out if the arrangements were made or not after the 

Collector ? 

A. To this day I do not know the arrangements made in 
respect of any booths during the polling.” 

These answers to the questions are not ‘correctly’ answered 
for R.W. 1 on 14-3-77 admitted to have written to P.W. 19 

the office Manager and Secretary of the Town Congress Com- 

mittee at Chittoor (Sri T. S. Rangam) who was also the 
Secretary of Freedom Fighters’ Association, Chittoor, in 
Letter Fx. A-23 on 15-3-77, (a free English translation of the 
letter) as under : 

“In regard to the subject you had talked to me, I talked 
to the District Collector. Regarding to villages in 
which there were comnlaints like Muthurevula, 
Bondapalle etc. where the polling booths have been 
wrongly located, the District Collector stated that it 
cannot be rectified at this late hour. However, for 



1958 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Paul II— Sec:. 3(ii£ 


the convenience of the voters he promised to make 
arrangements of lorries for transportation. Therefore 
you may inform all our people when lorries arrive, 
out voters should avail of that facility. This may be 
informed to all concerned.'’ (emphasis supplied.) 

Therefore, the witness, R.W. 1, came to know only at the 
trial of this case regarding transportation of voters is not true 
and cannot be accepted, 

There was considerable debate on the possible implications 
In law of letter A-23, It was argued the letter shows the 
election-agent has consented to transport voters therefore 
offence under clause (5) of S. 123 of the Act was committed. 
Especially the portion emphasised was stressed in proof of 
the fact. The fact that such a letter A-23 was in the custody 
of P.W. 19 when it should have been in the files of the cong- 
ress organisation was argued a circumstance to hold A-23 is 
not genuine. It is argued emphasised portion shows the elec- 
tion agent was willing to avail of amenities and asked th<S 
voters to be transported. He asked P.W. 19 to inform to all 
persons concerned i.e., voters, He was guilty therefore of the 
‘‘offence” was the argument and falling within Cl. (5) of 
S.123 of the Act. 

In opposition it was urged the election agent R.W. 1 accept- 
ed what was provided by the District Collector amenities of 
transportation, not that R.W. 1 had “procured” vehicles, not 
that R.W. 1 had paid the “hire” charges, not that R.W. 1 
intended to transport his electors, nor any voters were trans- 
ported by the returned candidate. Tn this connection stress was 
laid with reference to aspects emphasised in the following pas- 
sage in JOSHI BHAI C. PATF.T V. A. BEG A. MIRZA (2) 
39 E. L. R. 438 at 443 : 

“This Section (S, 123) defines one of the corrupt practices 
and it consists of the hiring and procuring whether on 
payment or otherwise of any Vehicle. This hiring and 
rocuring must be by a candidate or his agent or 
y any other person with the consent of the candi- 
date or his election agent and the hiving according 
to the Section must be for the free conveyance of 
any elector other than the candidate himself or mem- 
bers of his family or his agent to and from any pol- 
ling station. It will therefore, appear that the section 
requires three things : (1) hiring or procuring of a 
Vehicle ; (2) by a candidate or his agent etc, and 
(3) for the above free conveyance of an elector. . . 
The requirement of the law therefore is that in ad- 
dition to proving the hiring or procuring and the 
carriage of electors to and from any polling station, 
should also be proved that the electors used the 

vehicle free of cost to themselves The two 

provisos also prove provides that it would not be 
a corrupt practice for any elector to hire a vehicle 
and the second proviso lays down that the use of 
any public transport vehicle or vessel or any tram 
car or railways carriage by any elector at his own 
Cost is not a corrupt practice. In other words the 
electors if they have to perform the journey by hired 
vehicle must pay for its hire themselves. They can- 
not be taken in a hired Vehicle must pay for its 
hire themselves. They cannot be taken in a hired 
vehicle free of costs to themselves. Tn the same way 
if a procured vehicle is used, it must not be used 
for free conveyance of voters, The journey of the 
elector must be paid for by him. If a candidate hires 
or procures a Vehicle for free conveyance of the 
electors that also is perhaps a corrupt practice but 
that aspect need not be considered here. The language 
seems capable of that interpretation though we ex- 
press no final opinion,” 

The allegations in the petition, the denial by the returned 
candidate in answer, the examination of witnesses in the box 
in support of the fact of transportation by the contestant- 
respondent show voters were transported by the personnel of 
revenue department on instructions by the District Collector, 
Chittoor. The lorries w'ere “procured” for transportation of 
voters by revenue officials. The Vehicles like tractors were 
“procured” and were paid by the Collector. The evidence of 
village officers and of electors is the District Collector 1 pro- 


vided” Vehicles. Therefore, it cannot be concluded the return- 
ed candidate or his election agent piocured Vehicles. It can- 
not he held to repeat candidate intended' to transport voters. 

The election agent ( R.W. I ) was confronted with the situa- 
tion where the Government provided vehicles and in Ex. A-23 
asked his workers to ‘avail’ of the amenities. Such being the 
case the election agent cannot be held ’guilty’ of corrupt prac- 
tice, It is possible to read a sentence or sentences in Lix. A-23 
in i olation and the rest may be emphasised showing the in- 
tention. That method of reading cannot be permitted. The 
circumstances unmistakeably show the returning officer (Col- 
lector) good, bad, legal or illegal, though fit to provide the 
amenities. Those opportunities were availed of by the wor- 
kers of the returned candidate and by the election agent what 
can be further guessed on the above acts all concerned many 
have used the vehicle; and it is not difficult to imagine some 
like R.W. 23 could not avail of the opportunities. On the 
basis of this body of evidence such a conjecture is per- 
missible. 

The next letter which was debated was the letter of T. S. 
Rangan (A-22) addressed to P.W. 18. The letter (Ex. A-22) 
is dated. 1 J-3-77. A free translation of the letter is as under ; 

“Sri K. Bhaskara Reddy was addressed by the Chittoor 
District Congress Committee Secretary, T. S. Rangan 
as under ; 

Sir, 

The Election agent Sri Srinivasulu in regard to the Sub- 
ject of his talk yesterday regarding Chukkavaripalle, 
Gundlapallc booths and the resulting confusion that 
arose about voters list the agent has approached the 
District Collector, The District Collector informed 
that it is not possible to rectify the mistake and said 
that lorries will be provided for transportation of 
voters. This fact was not known to other side. The 
lorries soon after their arrival must seize them. 
The Lorries that will Arrive, Arrangements arc made 
to seize them to be within our hands. Therefore the 
movement the lorries arrive the voters of Gundlapallo 
and Chukkavaripalle and Vice-versa may be Trans- 
ported, see there is Maximum of our Voters Poll and 
Thereafter write a9 to how Many Voters are Voted 
for our Candidate. You inform US.” (emphasis sup- 
plied). 

The tone of this letter is not similar in Ex. A-23. This was 
admitted to have been addressed to P.W. 18. Both the persons 
were examined on behalf of the election-petitioner. The peti- 
tioner alleged that P.W. 18 was poll-agent of the returned 
candidate. As to this character and credibility of the witness 
there is serious controversy. Under Rule 13 of the Rules 
“Polling agent” and 'relief agent’ are appointed in a prescribed 
form (Form No, 10) in which the candidate or the election 
agent declare ‘a particular person’ is appointed. After the agent 
obtain the signature of the candidate or election-agent the 
agent is required to produce the letter at polling station and 
unless he delivers the document after signing the document 
the person “appointed” cannot be treated as “polling agent". 
There was conflicting oral evidence adduced in this regard to 
show P.W. 18 whether acted as Poll-agent of the returned 
candidate. The first respondent has seriously contested the 
"agency" part of the case. Having regard to Sec. 46 of the 
Act and Rule 13 and form No. 10 if P.W. 18 was the poll 
agent nothing prevented the petitioner to summon the docu- 
ment and exhibit the same, The oral evidence which is not 
uniform in this regard cannot therefore be accepted and it 
cannot he held P.W. 18 was poll agent of the returned candi- 
date. 

The letter Ex. A-22 was read wherein the lorries were 
expected to be used for Congress voters. P.W. 18 was informed 
that the other party was not aware of this arrangement etc. 
As regards "cu tody" of the document the letter was produced 
by P.W. 18. It was argued on behalf of the returned candidate 
the stamp bearing words ‘Chittoor Congress Committee ... . 
Office Secretary’ were there and there was no necessity <o 
have impressed' the Stamp in such a letter. The signature it 
was argued was in thin ink, the contents of letter arc written 
in thick ink. The dale at the top of the letter was in thin ink. 
The two -witnesses, P.Ws. 18 and 19. examined belonged to 
congress party and arc 'turn coats’ for they arc examined 



[*mr II- 3 ( ii ) ] 


*rnRr 4 >r Tnrqw:^nt 22, i 978 /»tfit$ .31, isoo 


1959 


by the petitioner and speak in favour of the petitioner, pto 
crace documents tending if not exposing the contestant their 
party man guilty of corrupt practice. Further it is argued 
Worse it was if P.W. 18 was a poll agent”. As regards the 
genuineness of Ex, A-22 the date the signature being in thin 
ink and the other aspects like the stamp of Chittoor Congress 

Committee arc aspects cannot be read to impeach the 

genuineness of the document. Therefore Ex. A-22 may be 
accepted as true having been written by P.W. 19 to P.W. IS, 
A serious question of law was raised based on the wording in 
!>. 123 Cl, (A) and S. 100 of the Act but that question need 
not be dealt with as it is held P.W. 18 is not a poll agent of 
the returned candidate. 


Whether or not the vehicles were bedecked with flags, 
wnth portraits of Indira Gandhi and the singnals and Symbols 
of cow-and calf it is not very difficult to imagine if not in 
all vehicles and in all “trips" the Vehicles must have been 
so treated and such a thing must have had happened. Those 
who have "knowledge” of elections as to how elections are 
conducted in our country if opportunities are provided by the 
Government, such opportunities are never and not allowed to 
go waste. Taking the general probabilities into consideration 
on the facts and on the evidence of the case the returned 
candidate cannot be held "proved” guilty of corrupt practice 
ifljsed in issues 4 to 6. The issues are held in the necative 
against the petitioner. 


(The District Collector, having regard to the gravity of 
the circumstances proved in the two instances, were given 
notice under S. 99 of the Act on 27-2-1978 notice was 
issued). 


respondent and his election agent, to further the 
election prospects of 1st respondent and this com- 
mitted corrupt practice 7 

8. Whether the B.D.O. Madanapalli, Sri Narayanappa, 
brought pressure on Sarpanches and voters to vote 
for the 1st respondent as described in para 11 of 
Election Petition and whether this alleged corrupt 
practice was brought about by the 1st respondent 
with the connivance of the aforesaid B.D.O. and 
others to wean away the voters in Iraia Firka in 
Bangarupalem Samithi from exercising their free 
franchise in favour of the petitioner and whether 
by this alleged corrupt practice the 1st respondent 
secured 5000 votes and the petitioner was deprived 
of 3750 Votes 7" 

Whether the Block Development Officer Narayanappa bro- 
ught pressure on the electors of Iraia Firka in Bangrupalem 
samithi and whether the acts of Narayanappa impeded the 
free exercise of franchise and deprived 3750 voters to the 
election petitioner is the content in issue 8. 

P.W. 25 Sri A. V. Ramachandra Reddy prior to 1954 
worked as village Munsif of Govindareddipalle. deposed, 
Narayanappa, accompanied by Sri N. P. Ananda Naidu 
(R. W. 13) came and pursuaded him to work for the return- 
ed candidate and preferred to regard the B.D.O.’s help. The 
help was to improve Govindareddipalli village. That promise 
moved the witness to work for the congress candidate. The 
witness adds he started to support the Congress candidate 
with the fond hope of obtaining the reward. 


Ql T* 1 ® “*** , tW °- ‘o Su fJ, 7 2 nd 8 raise ‘Corrupt Practice’ undei 
Sub. Cl. (7) of S. 123 of the Act and relates to Sri Naray 
anappa, the Block Development Officer at Madanapalli, wbc 
was transferred on 28-1-77 to Nadikotkuru in the ordei 
(Memo No, 343|E. 11|77-1) Ex. A-41 and the order wa! 
cancelled by the Mate Government on 25-3-77 in Ex A-4 6 
Memo. No 1200/Estt. 11/77-1. The allegation is Ex.' A-46 
was passed by the State Government to “retain" Narayanappa 
at MadanapaHe to ‘further prospects of the returned candi 
date . The concerned Asst. Secretary (Sri Ananthachary) was 
examined (P.W. 34), The file relating to the transfer of Nar 
ayanappa is marked tis Ex. A-40. P.W. 34 deposed between 

rfZf'IS t0 2 a- fi,c P a P ers Pertaining to the crucial dates 
curiously preceding to the date of order in Ex. A-46 in the 

/WWi H M1 r S ' T e C ■ Block Devc l°pmcnt Officer under Ex, 
from „ bn G ; Narayanappa, Block Development 
Officer, MadanapaHe to the Secretary to Government dated 
3-2-77) made a request to the Government that he may be 
retained at MadanapaHe. The proceedings of the District 
CoUector Chittoor, W 50001^2 date? 5-2-77 is marked 
dated dlV 77 Thi T“ Ce °1 thc Panchayat Raj Department 
on 23 2 77 Kv S ft Ex ‘ n A ’ 44 - The endorsement made 

p-Te b , y , ) , he T1 ^ lniS , tcr - Panchayat Raj Department is 
P, a !, k £d Ex. A-4J. What had happened between 23-2-77 to 
re , s no. knowing m these papers. Tlie correspond- 
ence between the District CoUector and Panchayat Raj Depart- 
ment is Ex. A-48 dated 2-9-1977. Ex B-3 a letter from 
District CoUector, Chittoor, ROC. No. J000|76-2jdatf!d 5-2-77 
to the Secretary, Panchayat Raj Department Ex B-4 is a 
letter D.O. RCC. No. A2|4203 77 dated 7-9-77 'from the 
District CoUector, Chittoor, sent to the Secretary to Gov 

No m c No an S 373 a / P R ? J , 5SP? “ Ex ’ B ' 5 i8 Notice 
8 10 19T7%1 Zi- L /7 f P 4 (Estt ' H) Department dated 
fo nVJ'A B -,'r ,0 trail8fer order of Sri Narayanappa 
Fx R R l d rM 5 -, °. 77 ’ E - B " 7 ord * r dated 3-11-77 and 

much Whar f, 7 f 7 are “ arkcd - The >’ do not throw 
muen light. What is of some relevance is on 28-1-1977 

Narayanappa was transferred to Nandikotkuru and thc trans- 
fer order was cancelled in Ex. A-47. The crucial papers for 
one reason or other are stated “missing”. 

The allegation is the transfer order of Narayanaona was 
th« 'rw 8t the * n l tanc « of Sri N. P. Vceraraghavalu Naidu' 
narr C if O, n “ n ii 0f the Rayalascema Development Board This 
allegation is thc subject matter of Issue-7 The 
issue raised in 7 cannot, be construed as ‘corrupt practice’ 
Therefore issues 7 and 8 have to be read together. P ' 

"7. Whether the transfer order of Narayanappa, R.D O 

k KrZn 'nrt 0 - * WHS transferred W Nandikotkuru 
we , rc excelled at the interven- 
™ , f ' Vecrara Bbavulu Naidu and the 1st 
CrL/ /8— 2 


P. W. 26 K. Gopalareddy thc sarpanch of Yarlampalli 
Village in Chittoor District, deposed Narayanappa asked him 
to work for the congress candidate and informed him N. 
P, Vceraraghavulu Naidu will see that his transfer orders 
are cancelled. The B.D.O. will be retained at MadanapaHi 
and the witness agreed to work for the congress candidate. 

P. W. 27 Sampumamma is the Sarpanch of Puttaramardi 
village, deposed Narayanappa came to her village 6-3-77 on 
election work, pursuaded her to work for congress candidate 
and on cancellation of the transfer order she was informed 
B.D.O. will return to MadanapaHe. That “Pursuaded” the 
villagers to work for congress candidate. 

P. W. 28 C. Doraswami Reddy, the Sarpanch of Kanlpa- 
kum village, the Director to thc District Central Library at 
Chittoor, the Director to the Super Basar, Bangarupalcm, the 
Director in the Co-operative Milk Supply Union at Chittoor, 
the President of Multipurpose Co-operative Society of K. 
Bommasamudram village, deposed in February, 1977 while 
he was on his way to Chittoor town, B.D.O, Sri Narayanappa 
met him and requested him to work for Congress Party and 
the witness answered to consider the request. In the first 
week of March, 1977 the Witness was in thc Panchayat Office 
at Agrampalli. Then Narayanappa along with R. W. 13 
Ananda Naidu, R. W. 21 Y. Krishna and Sundararamurthy, 
a teacher came and requested the witness to work for the 
returned candidate. Thc witness answered he would consider 
the matter. Thc witness however worked for Janata party in 
the election (Q. No. 11). 

In rebuttal R. W. 13 N. P. Ananda Naidu and R. W. 21 
Y. Krishna were examined. R. W. 21 is the Firm Proprietor 
of Trade Centre. He has lands in Nampalji village of Ban- 
garupalem taluk. He denied to have any friendship with 
Narayanappa, denied to have canvassed for the returned 
candidate. 

R. W. 13 is an Engineering Supervisor since 1965. Work- 
ing at Chittoor from 1-6-1977, deposed to have not met 
any time Narayanappa. The witness denied of having met 
P. Ws. 25 or 28 nor of having had visited the villages. 

In view of the denial of R.Ws. 13 and 21 it is not possible 
to accept the averment that Narayanappa tried to "wean 
away" voters in Iraia Firka in Bangampalem Samithi and 
thus impeded free franchise of elections. Issues 7 and 8 
are held accordingly against the petitioner. 

It is necessary to consider thc legal aspect of Sub-Clause 
(7) of Sec. 123 of the Act before issues 11 to 18 are taken 
for consideration Sub-CL (7) is under : 



I960 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, L978/ASADHA 31, 1900 


[Part II— Sec, 3 (ii)} 


The obtaining or procuring or abetting or attempting 
to obtain or procure by a candidate or his agent 
or, by any other person with the consent of a 
candidate or his election agent, any assistance other 
than the giving of vote for the furtherance of the 
prospects of that candidate’s election, from any per- 
son in the service of the Government and belong- 
ing to any of the following classes, namely 

(a) gazetted officers; 

(b) stipendiary judges and magistrates; 

(c) members of the armed forces of the Union; 

(d) members of the police forces; 

(e) excise officers; 

(f) revenue officers other (han village revenue office is 
known as lambardars, malguzars, patels, desh- 
mukhs or by any other name, whose duty is to 
collect land revenue and who are remunerated by 
a share of, or Commission on, the amount of 
land revenue collected by them but who do not 
discharge any police functions, 

(g) such other class of persons in the service of the 
Government as may be prescribed." 

The counsel for the petitioner accepts in regard to persons 
who are in the service of Government and fall within Cl. (g) 
such officers have to be "prescribed’' by the State Government. 
No list has been produced of such prescribed officers though 
oral evidence in this regard is adduced with great care and 
exactitude. A large volume of documentary evidence even If 
be taken as accepted it cannot be held there was “corrupt 
practice" for the officers referred in the evidence are not 
“prescribed” by the State Government. 

P. Jagannadham a clerk in the office of the Asst. Commis- 
sioner, H, R. & C. E. Department, Chittoor, is alleged to 
have 'influenced’ Voters in Booth No. 63 (Gangadhara Nellnre) 
at Vepanjeri Assembly Constituency. This allegation is the 
subject in issues 11 and 12. P. W. 29 G. R. Subrahmanyn 
Reddy, the polling agent in Gangadhara Ncllore Booth (on 
behalf of the Janata Party) raised objections. This witness in- 
formed the presiding officer and protested P. Jagannadham 
should not work as he is a Government Official. Ex. A-28 
dated 16-3-77 is the petition by P. W. 29 in which objection 
was taken and the complaint culminated in a disciplinary en- 
quiry against Jagannadham. There is considerable evidence 
which is capable of acceptance to show P. Jagannadham 
worked on behalf of the returned candidate but Jagannadham 
was an employee of H. R. & C. E. Dept, and not prescribed 
under Cl. (g) therefore no offence within the meaning of Cl, (7) 
of S. 123 of the Act was committed. 

The next issue (Issue 13) relates to Bhoopalarn who worked 
as poll agent at Mapakshl polling station. He is a ministerial 
officer of Chittoor Agrl. Market Committee, a corporate body 
under the Stato Act. The subject matter of this allegation was 
the subject in disciplinary proceedings against Bhoopalcm in 
ROC No. 197/77 on 6-6-77. The Chittoor Agrl. Market Com- 
mittee issued showcause notice and it resulted finally in a 
lenient reprimand to Bhoopalem. Ex. A-62 is the order. 
P.W. 35 K. M. Kumaraswamy is the Presiding- Officer. He 
speaks to the fact that Bhoopalem submitted a letter of au- 
thorisation from the congress candidate and acted as polling 
agent from 11.00 a m. to 4,00 p.m. acted as polling agent for 
the Congress candidate took away the “authorisation letter" 
on the pretext of “Verification." The issue is similar to the one 
involving P. Jagannadham in issues 11 and 12. The documents 
I.c., Ex. A-49 letter of P.W. 35 to the returning officer, 
Chittoor, dated 16-3-77, Ex.. A-59 the complaint sent by the 
villagers to Mapakshi on 17-3-77 addressed to the Chairman, 
Agrl. Market Committee Chittoor; Ex. A-60 to show cause 
notice Memo, given by the Secretary, Agrl. Mnrket Committee. 
Chittoor, to Bhoopalarn on 27-4-77; Ex. A-61 the explanation 
of Bhoopalarn are the proof prositive of Bhoopalarn having 
worked. Bhoopalarn however does not come within Cl. (7) 
officers. Therefore issue 13 held not proved and it decided 
accordingly. 

Issue No. 14 is with regard to B. K. Satyanarayana Rao 
alias B, K. Satyam, a Panchayat Samithi feather. Considerable 
Volume of evidence was adduced to show B. K. Satyam addres- 
sed public meetings and his speeches are reported by P, W. 32 


the correspondent of Indian Express and Andhra Prabha. The 
suggestions made to P.W. 32 do not disclose that he^ made 
a mistake in reporting the speech instead of Mrs, B. K Satyam 
of having reported Mr. B, K. Satyam. The argument advanced 
on the evidence is Ex, A-35 news item in Indian Express dated 
17-2-77 and in Ex. A-36 another “cutting” in Andhra Prabha 
dated 4-3-77 the mistake was it was argued instead of Smt. B. 
K. Satyam it was reported as Sri B. K. Satyam. This alleged 
mistake was not suggested- to P. W, 32. Therefore there could 
not have been any mistake. Ex. A-29 is the complaint by D. S. 
Changalarao, President of the “Taluk Natana or Natak Party” 
Ex. A-30 statement of P.W. 30 before Enquiry Officer dated 
9-8-77 is one complaint. The Evidence on this issue is pot 
considered in detail except in brief for the conclusion is B. K. 
Satyam is not an officer prescribed in Cl. (7) of S. 123 of the 
Act. In short the evidence F. W. 30, Changalarao, is the 
Secretary of the Lorry Association. He deposed that B. K. 
Satyam participated in election meetings in suport of the return 
candidate. 

P.W. 31 E. Seshagirivao of Punganur is a graduate un- 
employed. He knows B. K. Satyam for the last 15 years 
and deposed to have seen B. K, Satyam participated in 
the election meetings. 

There were disciplinary proceedings against B. K. Satyam 
launched by P.W. 33, Ch. Viswanadham, the Block Develop- 
ment Officer of Punganur, who speaks of to facts in Exs. 
A-29 and A-30 are petitions by P.Ws. 30 and 31. Ex. A-37 
is the Preliminary enquiry report on 28-8-77. Ex. A-38 
dated 19-1 1-77 Is the show-cause notice issued to B. K. Satyam. 
Ex. B-l dated 13-5-77 is the explanation. 

B. K. Satyam was examined as R.W. 14, Smt. B. K. 
Satyam was examined as R.W. 15 R.W. 16 P. Dakshinamurthy 
Sarpaneh of Karasanapalle was examined to show that he 
did not address meetings. R.W. 18 D. Lakshmaiah of Chode- 
palli a retired Junior Commissioned Officer in the Armed 
Forces deposed the meetings held at Chodepalli R.W. 14 
did not address in the meetings R.W. 19 P. Kesavulu, a 
retired teacher, denied B. K. Satyam of having addressed 
the meetings. 

The disciplinary proceedings are pending against B. K. 
Satyam. A teacher of Panchayat Samithi cannot be consider- 
ed as a Government Official and even otherwise there is no 
list published of officers under Cl. (g) to show Samithi teacher 
is “presented” or included in the State list. Therefore issue 
is held against the petitioner. 

Issue 15 is with regard to M. M. Ratnam, M.L.A. Issue 

16 relates to Md. Fazlullah- Khan, a Bank Inspector, Issues 

17 and 18 relate to J. Narasimhlu, A.D.O. Grade-I. 

P.W, 37 B. Rajagopalareddy, Bandarlapalie, P.W. 38 Nara- 
yana of Kuthaganiaplli ; P.W. 39 Obulreddy of Geddapalli; 
P.W, 40 K. Krishnamurthirao of Pathurunathem ; P.W. 41 
K. Changalraya Naidu, the Secretary of the District Co- 
operative Bank, Chittoor, and P.W. 44 Devarajulu of 
Muthukur village were examined and Ex. A-50 the proceed- 
ings of the District Co-operative Central Bank, Chittoor, in 
RGMT|CON| V|CLA. No, 1613 in the Minutes Book at page 
211 dated 9-4-1977 ; Ex, A -55 the proceedings of (he Chittoor 
District Co-operative Central Bank Limited, Chittoor, dated 
11-4-77 bearing Rc. No. 100/76-77, A-l and Ex. A-56 the 
bye-laws of the Chittor District Co-operative Central Bank 
Limited relating to service conditions of employees upto 
31-5-1970 are marked on behalf of the petitioner. 

R.W. 7 K. Mrihacevan, the village Karnam of Gundlapalli ; 
R.W. 20 A. Vcnkntaramireddy, the President of the Village 
Co-operative Society, Kallupalle were examined and Ex, R-ll 
the resolution No. 1373 at Page 61 in the Minutes book 
dated 14-7-76 Ex. B-33 the diary of Sri Md, FazluJlah Khan, 
the Bank Inspector Chittoor from 1-2-77 to 31-3-77 and Ex. 
B-34 tour journal of J, Narasimhlu A.D.O. Gr. I Officer for 
the month of February, 1977 were adduced. 

The issues have a similar results as in regard to J. .lngan- 
nadham (Issues 11 and 12) and Bhoopalcm (Issue 13). 

P.W. 36 is Prabhakara Reddy the village munsif of Challa- 
varipalli working for the last twenty years, denosed the Multi- 
purpose Co-operative Society- in the* village is controlled by 
the District Co-operative Central Bank at Chittoor where 
Md. Fazlullah Khan, the Bank Inspector and J. Narasimhlu 



[*Ttrr 3 (ii)] XTTTST W 


A.D.O. Grade-I were working. P.W. 37 is the president of 
the Bandarupalli village Society, deposed to the visits of Md. 
Fazlullah Khan, the Bank Inspector and I. Narasimhlu the 
supervisor as he then was and who after was promoted as 
A.D.O. Grade-I Officer. P.W. 38 P. Narayana of Kutheganl- 
palli is an Accountant with the Bank Co-operative Central 
Bank of Chittoor, deposed as to how Md, Fazlullah Khan 
and J. Narasimhlu, the A.D.C, Grade-I have dealt with 
him in regard to the collection of debts and dues. 

P.W. 39 Obul Reddy of tiddapalli, a member of the Co- 
operative Multipurpose Society deposed to visits of Md. 
Fazlullah Khan and' J. Narasimhlu and the credit dealings 
of the Bank. P.W. 40 K. Krishnamurlhyrao of Pathurana- 
tham, speaks Bhaskara Reddy the Supervisor, Md. Fazlullah 
khan the Bank Inspector, J. Narasimhlu, A.D.O. Grade-I 
and Nagabhushanm Nnidu later came to be Zonal Officer 
were known to the witness deposed to the promises mado 
in respect of Collection of debts P.W. 41 K. Changalraya 
Naidu, the Secretary of the Co-operative Central Bank, Chi.l- 
toor, produced documents and deposed to resolutions and pro- 
motions ordered in favour of J. Narasimhlu P.W. 44, Devara- 
julll of Vuttukuru, the village Munsif, the president of Multi- 
purpose Co-operative Society in Vuttukuru deposed of the 
role played by the Block Development Officer, Narayanappa, 
J. Narasimhlu, A.D.O. Grade. I, and M. M. Ratnam, M.L.A. 

R.W. 17, T. Somasundarao of Chittoor inrcbuttal deposed 
of Accounts of the District Co-operative Central Bunk at 
Chittoor and produced Exs. B-33 and B-34. R.W. 20 A. 
Venkatramireddy of Somarajupalli in Palmaner taluk the 
president of Kallupalli Village Co-operative Society denied the 
Chairman of the District Co-operative Society (M. M. Ratnam), 
Md. Fazlullah Khan, the Bank Inspector, and J. Narasimhlu, 
A.D.O. Gr. I had asked the witness to work for congress- 
candidate. The witness narrated to the “defaults” of debtors 
to the Society and averted there were not attachments of 
properties in February or in March, 1977. The circulars 

and their contents was the subject of his evidence. 

The above officers are not prescribed in Cl. fg) therefore 
there shall be a similar order as in the case of issues 11. 12 

and 13. 

In view of the above findings issues 24 and 27 are answer- 
ed in the negative against the Election Petitioner. 

Sections 25, 27 Rules 2(g), 2(b), 31, 46(n) nnd 48 of trie 
Act and Article 100(A) of the Constitution were alleged to 

have been violated. Even if that be true it will Pave to 

be show the “result of the election in so far as it con- 
cerns the returned candidate" was materially affected under 
Sec. 100(d), The burden laid under the Act was not dis- 
charged by the election-petitioner, Issues 26 and- 28 are there- 
fore held in the negative against the petitioner. 

The D.S.P. Sown Reddy and the District Collector, Chiltoor 
were issued a show cause notice on 27-2-77 as to why action 
under Sec. 99 of the Act be taken. On 11-3-78 the D.S.P. 
averred he did not ‘direct’ R.W. 6 to transport voters from 
Sumiieddipallc to Ugranapallc booth in APT 2509. The 
Officer averred voters were not ‘brought’ on 16-3-77. He re- 
ceived a message from S.P, at 3 P.M. “Harijans at Sami- 
reddipalle" were prevented by ‘influential persons’ from exer- 


:wrf 22, 31, 1900 1961 

cising their franchise and on the instruction of S.P. he pro- 
ceeded to Ugranapalli in APX 5292 and reached there at 
4 P.M, and further in his words : 

“f despatched S.I. I town police slation, Chittoor, Sri 
Vasudeva Reddy and R.S.I. Srinivasulu to Dhivuva 
Mala Pall i and Ycghuva Mala Patli of Samircddy- 
palli with instructions to ensure non-interference with 
the light of franchise of Harijans and if necessary 
to collect the voters and provide escort, so that 
they can go over to the polling station without any 
outside interference. But I did not ask them to 
bring the voters by Police Vehicles as alleged- in 
the petition,” 

If these were the orders of the Deputy Superintendent or 
Police the rest of the action it is not difficult to imagine. 

The District Collector, Chittoor pursuant to the notice with 
reference to the six villages in this affidavit averred : 

“It was therefore apparent that what was ordered to 
be done was to convey all electors in Vehicles at 
the disposal of the Government to the 

booths and this facility was neither confined 
to voters belonging to one party nor was 

any such impression permitted to be created. While 
issuing instructions, I cautioned the subordinate offi- 
cers that vehicles belonging to the contesting parties 
or any other political parlies should not be requisi- 
tioned or lined. . 


No distinction whatsoever was made by me amongst 
the voters of any share whatsoever. In taking the 
decision and acting thereupon I never did so with 
the consent of any candidate or his Election Agent 
or agent nor were the Vehicle or Vehicles hired or 
procured with the consent of any candidate or his 
election agent or agent for the free conveyance.” 

The District Collector, Chittoor ‘honestly’ tried to reprieve 
from ‘anamolous’ situation is rather apparent. Corrupt prac- 
tice is an ‘offence’ and the offence depends on inferences 
drawn from the facts. The measures adopted by the Collec- 
tor in the circumstances do speak bonafides of the person 
but their efficacy in election law is full of serious propensities. 
Speaking of efficacy again only ‘honesty’ part of it is not 
in doubt. The Election Commission perhaps will do well 
in future in not adopting such devices and measures. As to 
those who experiment with such improvised methods pro- 
ceedings in election petition is not the flat to deal with them, 
Whether the two officers are guilty of offences under the 
Act, the proceedings are dropped for one thing is certain the 
returned candidate or his election agent is not guilty of 
the offence. The situation thus emerges poses peculiar issues 
and the questions are left open for those who are concerned 
with it. 

In conclusion not without any hesitation and rethinking 
it is thought desirable to drop the proceedings commenced 
in Ibe notice on 27-2-1978. 

In the result the election petition is dismissed and having 
regard to the circumstances and facts of the case it is 



1962 


considered proper to order no costs, No Advocate’s fee need 
be fixed in view of tlie order as to costs. 

Sd|- 

D. SUNDARARAJA RAO, Dy, Registrar (Judl.) 

[No. 82/AP-HP (2/77) /78] 
T. NAGARATHNAM, Secy. 


f*TTT 

(rrwwftftffnr) 

■if 3 *tH, 19 78 

HttoWfto 2127. — WWt XTftjfaTJT, 1961 

( 1961 w 43 ) srtrr 10 *t?r ttort (23-r) % w ( 5 ) 

IRT 5TTvT mteff »ITT MPT JP, '‘«fr WEft n<R|J-?, fiwT 

torwrm[, tit fterfcer 1976-77 % ftrrr sfft 

if htct ^ atftnfipf tiftrg^Rr tn^ft 1 1 

[*r° 2207/tfToiffo 19 7/7 9/77— Wo *K° (T I)] 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue) 

New Delhi, the 3rd March, 1978 
INCOME-TAX 

S.O. 2127, — T 11 exercise of the powers conferred by clause 
(v) of gub-section (23C) of section 10 of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government hereby 
notifies “Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Dcvasthanam, Yada- 
girigutta" for (he purpose of the said section for and from 
the assessment year(s) 1976-77. 

[No, 2207 /F. No. 197/79 /77-IT(AI)) 

rftftwft, 11 1978 

WFT-trt: 

USToWto 2128. — (RtH, XTft IT AtfafttET, 1961 
(1961 >PT 43) 'ft STITT 19 *ft TTXtTTT (23-rr) % 3PJ¥ ( 5) 
air.1 VlpKldt TIT a tin iJTh '’Hi TPTTTPT rfftTTT PT^iTsft 

sfftftm tfift frratr^r W 1971-72 % fatf afrr ^ «tkt 

% adi ji '1 1 M n [ll^f ! xi vft ^ I 

[tto 22;58/ t 6TotTo 1 97/ 1 64/76--FTO TPo (iTo I)] 

New Delhi, the 11th April, 1978 
INCOME-TAX 

S.O. 2128. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (v) of stub-section (23C) of section 10 of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government hereby 
notifies. “Shr.ee Samsthan Kokarn Partagali Jeevottam Mutt" 


[Part II— Sec. 3 (ii) 

for the purpose of the said section for and from the assess- 
ment year(s) 1971-72. 

[No, 2258/F. No. 197/164/76-IT(Al)] 

pf ftwft, 5 ^T, 19 7 8 
tTPT-TT 

wfo2i29.-- %-fhr west, tTPT-FT uftrEm, ie e i 
( 19 6 1 'FT 43) ifr STITT 10 # OTTTRT (23-^) % H 15 * ( 5) 

Fra sprer wfaftf <rrr Tftft 4 t^ $tt, ft 'N xrra ft 

pf ft?fft t'I ftstfr»T sft 19 73-74 % ftfif tfft E Wft 

wra % wEFTpf wRjyjpsrT irft | i 

[rfo 2337/TiTo Tto 1 9 7/23/78-OTo t;(<r I)] 

frr® to#), w ttIntt 

New Delhi, the 5th June, 1978 
INCOME-TAX 

S.O. 2129. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 
(v) of sub-section (23C) of section 10 of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government hereby noti- 
fies “The Cathedral Church of the Redemption, New Delhi" 
for the purpose of the said section for and from the asses*- 
ment years(s) 1973-74. 

[No. 2337 /F. No, 197/23 /78-IT(AI)] 
M. SHASTRI, Under Secy. 

wftsr 

Tf ft^wV, 11 sjrnt, 1978 

TTW 

VTO *TTo 2130-: — RRtfft ^2Trq- SrftpEnT 1899 (1890 VI 
( 2) <ft SETT 9 ITT TTSHTT ( l) % STS' (w) JTTT 5Pm wfiRpff 
*ft rjtEt tt=t jrr $;gft rtfr puttitt ot vpsp <ft rto ttst! 
3 ft ’SPir tror 'TnT'fftypT {nrr urrft ftp* 

3Tft *rtfr 33 'TTW tfirr SJW % ftst’TTf TT, 3W. wfsrfarET 

wstEt R'frrft 1 1 

[rfo 16/7 8-HTPT — PITo TT° 3 3/3 2/ 7 8-firtfftT] 
.tftfo fto TmTETnff, xrrr Trftp^ 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 11th July, 1978 
STAMPS 

S.O. 2130. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp 
Act, 1899 (2 of 1899) the Central Government hereby remits 
the duty with which the debentures of the value of thirty 
three crores of rupees to be floated by the Industrial Credit and 
Investment Corporation are chargeable under the said Act. 

[No. 16/78-Stamps— F. No. 33/32/78-STI 
S. D, RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22 , 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 



1963 


[^rrll—Tif 3(H)] nRn on onm - tjnff 22 , i978/*rprrg 3i, 1900 

y — • ~ • — = 

(«nn fmnm) 


arfag^nr 

nf fdaoff.fantnr 7^T, 1978 

OrToOrr°2123. — TT^TfiT, VTTOT drdfnam % 77 dr ORa 

( 3 ) % wrpRaT d, fan fin fan fwr nmd |, orafg 

i. dftndr nrc srh: arca; — ( 1) an fwft on dftrm hr 

fnoftn nrfjfilff On STWPftarn fdmT, 1 978 | I 

(2) IT fom 5T'R ?PTR, 197 8 t nntdt ?W I 

•?.. farina ORd ad irforr : — RT'sjnfa on nnrmn tjT and or 
for f(ar oRnr araanar in nnddtn ^ njr, maimr in fdotn ardor 
am, — 

(*tr) fonfr nrfaanff % mma Jr an fnmft dr ndt m fdmr 
nadaf ad fvrftrn or rndd ; 

(nr) an fnnnf dr anffn smrndfarn orfwff dr crfnfrn: vrirrmr 
f^raft jrTftmat ad srmnrtf^n or ndfn ; 

(n) fanft nrfaanm ad nwTdtfarcr uriwft art nn Prior 
nor am or nam aft ardor Jr fnfnfaM ad ami; 

(n) nn omf dr orfnion; omr afatrfdn or w aft on fnnnf 
am fafdfoa ad ami; ah 

(®) ffir anmfr dr fam aft fafafom forn ampf, an fnrnfr 
% wtftn srcnrnrfmr mft m fdn^f orfanff aft fond 
nrftmfr Jr mro Jr add? i 

3 . nfomnii: — ( 1 ) an fnnnf Jr, am anr for don Jr omnr 
trdfwn n eft,— — 

(or) "nonaor” Jr fdnft dn Rrorwn an ww afniia ft, 
’art aaon adf dt mnfanm *fr; 

(nr) "fafnatn” d fdfnfc: mm aft >jrt or 5 ! % fan fnfnnm 
% mnfnar nfna if tmrfw fnfanf air anndom nfnmr 

*0 03 

fc; 

(n) "wTarfrnamr wa” Jr ndr anjdfnar ah am ®nn 
nfada | farndr amna aahf an am aft fond onnfan 
% nonr dr fan, aamtad r«rm [aafn ndtwrar, 
ardonoT, nhndn rtoarn, odR foot n ondaRn v 
fdd anna fomr armr fc, annfmr smr *rta: ^t m 

amr »ft % an% wnrmr r?nr ofri *mr mff | aft 
"nonr” "iTtnrT: *ftr rntn 1 ' «mr % arm amft 
% wnrnn wr% arn amr ^ mr if fnransmn mff$n 
fanrr mn ^ ; 

(n) "^n nrarrr an fnnrn” Jr rrmr-rmn an nm arftr- 
^fan ^nffn trotr an aft^ wma ot fnnm arfn^n 
| aftn an% imran tfranT wnftn, mrffn amf-fnnrn, 
nTayrfn nf^amn, nmmjnfn nfwan, nfsnasar 
nhnraw afh: ntrrn nsfr amrfnn dt (f ; 

(w) "farr nnrmr’' Jr trtr an fanr nnnrn wfn$n 

I; 

(n) nn% wrnfn>P fna' , ;r'T wtftn amrfan nr annfarnf 
% wa if “fnarnrrww" Jr an fmmt off- wn^nt 1 
if fnfnftan nTfaanat wfnnn | : 


qnrg nfarr *nfta fanfr ntnitn nimr an m*nar 
'^T artr j n an "nnnn mrJrf mr nnnnm vma nnann % 
nn-nfnn % afrrnnm Jr am n {ft; 

(nr) " nrmfwn wsw” Jr nnT nnmfnn wfrranff arfir^ir | 
afr an fnnnr d; fmm id % mfm arrnfam atenar dr 
an if ntfmr fw ormr 

(n) "naffif ann” Jr nnand Jrnan 't nan afra oraff, 

^rm, dam anadJiranmi, nfrnnr sinnrn, nfwrn, nam, 
ndaR afk m dr wf nnr ^ ^ an wf d: 
amritn arm nT% ann Jr fnn nrfr inn arfnan 

(or) "nnrnnf mn" n want ana Jr fw ®nn TTfnda 

t; 

(an) “fafnatn an nrafnar ^fna” Jr fnnn 8 if fnfcr 
fnfmfm arr nrofma ijfna nfnda 

(a) "mar rrarn” Jr fafdn nanf nV fJrmf, nt-afwn, 
afar aftr mr fnann nanf wfnnn 

(5) "jnfnfnam” Jr fafnafn dr nrnfmrr <j_fna dr fdnfr ana 
ijfna aft fnftnff an arnianr arfnda |; 

(a) "trmrff *nn” Jr dnr »nn nfvda afr nnfnar RRim 
or naan farm armr ^ ; 

(a) "wntnan mfannfr” Jr dnatn trotr on oflf fnwr nr 
Tn?nfn dr ndrnm oftf wfnonfr orfnda f t 1 

( 2) nn ormf oflr ant dr afr an fnanr if sr^w t aVr qft- 
nrfnn mff fang nrora»r fniftn fnnn, 1 9 63 if a fan 1 fan ?, 
nift ar«f jffff aft mntRi fmftn fnnn Jf f 1 

4. «aa n^ orJt oft orfm on nrtrRn fnmim — 

( 1 ) mar TTarm if Jr anf m mar mn aft fnfn nann 
fnanf an ^t mm farm mrim; mnm n^f 1 

(2) afrf nr wEfmrn mfiranff dmn nn nwraff if fam if 
mr rfnr anm dr fmj, — 

(or) nnmn nnn fonfr fofn dr mm at irt, 

(nr) an fnnnf nr farmr am fnnnf mar nr am^nfJr sm 
nr nndr anjntnn n arrft fan; amf, m 

(n) 'm^nfn nr rnn nsm mfuanfr dr'amnanr nr Mn 
ondn ffTnr, 

nrfa?rn form mrr I, ntor sm orr son nr nnif Jr wfirn an nnr 
or ndmr 1 

(3) mrfnna (2) off aftf nm fonfr ntftnmr mfaanfr 

afr, fan aama aft I ja’ rmnfn dr fanr dnr aftf mn najn an,n 
dr fm; nwnr mft ardnt fand dn nr; fnsmr m nafn - an *{<■■ 
anrnn amnfam ?r fdmJr far nfmn n n^r jwr mn ifrRr narmn 
5~t 1 dnr n*ft fdrnr an ndrar am nnr ann arrn dr arernffn gt 
n’t? farndr wu if fan mown nndr nam if nfinfnn fan; and 
dr yr njmr nt mrr m 1 . - - 

(4) anftmn mfmrnff fonrt dd mOTmr m fnffn ntdaT, 
fndn nr ngna % onftn g-n farJr dnf orfm art .mmnrfam 
m gn: rrwrntfajn amd owt mfaanft rnm-nnn nr anft aft 
nr fnf^r arJ, aon'najn; oRd od n% on sratn oRm 1 

5. nnfw famnf nf'ORi ^ — msft tint fwln. wrfnmi ard 
fnnnf jrt fonfr nrfaonff ofr fnFvrmnm marntfam ntjf oft nf 
f, fnw nnrnn d fnfi>m dWt 1 



1964 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 


6. inft ITT ITTI: — ( l) fa# igtt W nt$ °-HM {PfT 

r tifl 'Jnrpn f®F fw% 

Prfrit frftmi fifiim it gifaPrin tttt nram nff m it 
inraft i 

( 2 ) TTlif WI ITT TTpm irrjit, III li nT s® ITT 

arPm grr mi % fit fiftnf Prfiim Prfiitr it ^f^fTqriT 
xra it, iTrfkrfi, TmPiniT fifa if i tPpt am iwn 
m fit Tit IT igi fjtit ft *ffc I^n 'IWItiT IT ir ftpr, 
ti Tit if PrPritl ir ircfpT itl ITT gt Ilit $ Pmtnf % 
WtftlTWTTtT^itft I 

7. Wig am Wtnff TT 3 WJ : — TIIFff iff lilt T*R IKTT 
cn ir fit frfwin igfwi iwm it mPtn srrftmnft iff 

Tk it iig «pt ITgi fit Ifi ft I Wig 5 TTT lift IT IT fit 

<sni Ttr imran PrfiiTw nfstfiiT ’ttEtw ftf Tsnir ir miTig ^t, 
*1 Tim: aifim Tlif I^T fat It WI iff ^TT mi % fat 
fafiiti it gi fafi itw ir fat n with it mPtm nfinfaf 
nT Iimtr (ft ifa ft 1 

8. fafainit Wllfingfli : — ( I) Ttfal HI ir fat «gnn 
it fafaiti nr firm n m ifrtrt it wran iftnif % Tgim 
if ftwr TTOT ft fali* Wtftl li ?nf i flWT mf! 1 Pit m 
tftin it trt iftw farir mi ®n % f%rq iwitr wrfiT ht 
ft, fiprin 4 i smifw gte wftn mir ft 1 wrofin gPn ir 
umrmr wit h fat it ik wTfkr wi % fit mmi '*ft ftt 

*falT ik IT HIT if lifa l 5 t TUT TCfl-m iftn «pt lU^fl I 

( 2) fafawti iff in Pm; gfi? Pmrfafaw if i $w> ir mrt 
iffit : — 

1 - ^TT 

2- IJIJTt 

3. IflT^ ITT 

4 - IWT ITTT 

5 - irtlfTTI*!! 

6. ifrriT wti fiifT irimf % fw:#i 

7 . fUTTIT, tz *ftr fit IT TTT Oitq 

8. wpm 

9- ftrirni, fin iAtc irm *n 
io- i^tiit iiih it irfmn it i^mft 
11. iAt: ifirn 

12 - wf^RT ®H IT HTSXt ITTT 

1 3. mw inr *n 

14 . TJWTWi 

15 . Wlinf 

1 6 . qufVlT t tAt T 3 IWT IT l/lw tfTT Tfiw 

17. itmin 

18. wrwpi 

19 . flPmlITTIJR 
. 20 . ITIlt iT I HI 
21. ®W IT Mill'll 
2 . 2 . IT 'HIM 
23 - wnm 

24. nm-^WTiRm 

25 . ^rffpff I?t if <*TTt •Ifl'll 
26 - y-iTfl 

27. *ph*ttt 


[Part II— Sec. 3 (ii)] 


(3) fmr mtmn mffm (2) if fafiftTa- irifiiT 

in iftf m itifiiT Ifm iff* i%it it iir lOrrf nr ntf 
fa^fitWilTflf?I!rTI%TT 1 

9. fifiif n rniri : — ( 1 ) if mrTM-i it irfanm ftraVr 
ifi ir iTfn *11 ^ P=r^ i^ift it fifiTfti ii^ xtit it^pfi 
f^fir irmT fr, im iff i£ fiErif nr iff irmwir fit, 
i^tiw fimm itr ifimw ifnnTfrif if fimn nim 1 

(2) Tfijifi jttt irtt firi 1^ Pr<ifi Ptiii it ipt»rt 
n nriti jtt, fnir irififn ifm fr isfti ^11^(1 
ir tot nt^ iti fiimi u ifVmw iraimt f: »mTati 
tut it tt%it hit iTiftn j^Pts ift nf iVr ijfmt if itrr 

ii i%ir TfffT ^iif ir fuff % nfn ntf mptr yira it mi: 
fiiai it iTimi iftrirff n «niTtfti ttst ^rr i%ir 1 

1 0. fifiiti Tfrr jififiiti : — ithttit fnriri ( 1 ) yrr 

iii nr ^tt mi % ffn it lir itjt. mi % fair iwr srrftwrft 
brt i^rr i^f fniT iit ^ ftfaif IT fiPifri it jififiii'i n{t 
fniraniir 1 

(2) irfri ®ii ir fpii yuPEri PrftRf it frfiiti ir 
gififiin iron ®r ht ^ct mi % firi nft fniT oriifir 
tir hir fni 11 *n i: Pti t#itt Prftritf m f iti ii i 
it 'pTfitiiir '<nfvi «ri **i gn mi ir firr uft f^ifT nriir 1 

(3) irfn «ii i fii in iitti ir fifrin i i irfii 
eii i; Put pi I'pw ir fifiiti i itf ijifiPrifi iff fnir 
srriTr 1 

(4) cmr nr i^iPn ms i wi^siti fntft it 
iiT it inr nt if Prm 1 n ti ji mi ir fair fifsrif 
m PrPrin ir yr T iP i ifi iff Pru ^rntir 1 

(5) ii»it m «Ti PmrftrPai ififin lit ir ntfn ftir, 
iifi : — 

(n) fait ii ii.i ir Ptc; Prfirif 11 fiPriii it ^ifiPriti 
iff fiiir itiit fun Pri ih-tth tt miri hitr 
jti itt fifar rnmPrn imru ir mitnt ifft 

(a) fnit ini ir Pit PrfiiPn mri, Pm mm ai 
ifiPr n fur, 11 ini n fit iiitfm it rip 
li it nni i m ifim tft vtw ir tEto i iff 
isir ir (n) i Pipns Pnif % liti irfitfr 
linitr 

■Rig ifi fniff nr njPn ini niin ir liti 
ufiyi rftir i iPm fmg 1 5 iPm m ®n ir 
irfin ft grr mi ir fit gififiirfii PrPrit ir 
Prt m in ®r ^ ir iir iprPr nrom iit tirir 1 

(1) Pm iam it 51 iprPr ir Pur, irifm iPts 
“ gw ini" i i fnir tw grmnt ntt it jiPrPnfm 
1^: fiir nrtiT ; 

mrg n^t tir iwr w i ttiw mtin if 
Tin fniT mr ft, i?t irifti rniiTt nr ntf Pram 
nns irifm gps ‘‘gw ini”, “ig ini”, “ti- 
t«w” “tPtr ik im” % in it gn ftt Tgm 
ir fnpriti ir nnii iri Prfaif nt ggPritPri 
mi i: Prt i«ti pir; fmg ni m pir jnfnPriti 
itn ini i inPai ‘'mir sfrin” i i it ini 
igf Pair nrntiT 1 





(n) (1) % fafarfaR mj#RR % fan arm # 

Rrefronar fRfer if if nft # wfan, fafantn 
nr 5 Rfafa#n fa# (iff rr #n amf % fan, 
fa# SRR # cpT nrfa % facr r# fam mfarr 
ffaan farr snrr if RRnro r# fann wr|rftt 
farwr ijr r'*#r uw mrf nr rr% nfUn 
#Rr i 

(2) fan Rnran nf i ja nrprfa % fan, fa# Rif 
■fa #n rfaa ^ fa tt r# fam rttrrt 

ffiwr rr aw wf nr rr% afan ^ fam 
n #1 a aw tirr fr nn ^ 1 

(e) fan Rnran # ^ r^tr# % farm #t # gRfn- 

fa#R, — 

(it) ttcft inn ®rpr ^ fair iT ?r wt anif r# fam 
Tlfarr; 

(«r) *r anrc r# fam rtrrt fa ^ rrjjtr rt farfanfa 
ffaj nrnffm #rr "#rr”, "nar^#'', famfom 
®Rn” #7 "arm wrr” R#t nf nr rtr imr spfa 
r#r aR#r if ijffor # urr an 1 

famr — fjam sftt srarm new-in % aRptr if 
gt mjmR nr fafa#n % wmrfanp ijftr '%r”, 
"amj#” aft “nmfan *an” a# fat r^n ar«r imr 
mfa r#r rrrr if ^ fart a i nw i # *pjr 
if mnfRn rjfarc: "namr# m *m” if ir yrfafanfa 
% fair fan #man # y} amr# tfaftm r# ## ( 

(r) fa# am n#nR % faiT fa# nmmR nr fafa#n if 
mn # fa# farfarfW nt an % f#i fanj mj anwn 
if if R# fam RTfan; 

(n) tirto #7 <£# nffalnfa $ r#r nfanr #fa % r#r 
R wrfarr fafanf if ir #c nfanr 7 fHn if r# fam 
TUTfaTT; 

(i=) ifa iff n^TR ^ r#r ■£# qfa rr^r ### % wtffa 
RwfaiR fafanf «ffa n# fanr rttri; #r 

(n) WRfaRRi fafa fan# ^ Rwff % htjrir rr^r g^n 
nr mffa % fa^ mRTffaR^r fafa if ft fanrfa nr; 
nfan if if fa# jni: #(Kn nr fafa % fafa fan? 
srifaiT nnnr rr% rtt? rr if # r# fanr nfaRT 1 

11. faf *ct rprn: — (1) Tn fan# if fa# rr % ffa 
5 H #, far# # nn rt, — 

(nr) fafafa RRRrrr ^7 far# fron % nfanw n nnnfan if 
r^RR r# fanr nrnnT m w ff %nffa RmrR % 
n#R M # sryfa % ir % ffaT ^ fajrmiR nr 

#TR RT fan nr nn nrT tjrr fam rtrt t, -rTs^nfa 

IT7T WJ#RR R# RTT ftRT RRT 

(w) fa# tt$ nrn RTRfan if rrr r# fanr nifan 5ft 
fa# srjnnnr q-r fawHiiwqr % fan^n ^ n#R J 
rr RRt fa Rn win* nr fanmTsntH- »rtffa 
nr far# ?pn fa fa a f|7 nfan ran nrmfan if 73# 
Rirfa nr nn Tinjnfa jirr n 5 j#ftn $rr rt m rrr 
RTRT 7 fWRTR^; 

(n) fan fasrwn # ^ r^^fa % fajq ^ 

qRR Rlfr^ fanr Rfanr rr rm fa sq sfafaq ^ 
n^faR# R# if RRR 7 RTftR R # nrytr; 


(r) rprR R# fanr Rnfnr rr rrt fa fa# rr i>j nfa 
R7nt# # # # ^rr n# ffa^ faftr# fa# 

n^f n #7 ir mfani# % *nnRT#R rrrr 

if ir faftmFn fafantn m jTfafanm if if r nr^ r# 
nfanr if ffa q# m ritj t^rt R7T7 if fan n# Rr# 
fafa# n Rqna n n#R #rt i 

( 2 ) fa# r#rw nrfanrff # 7RT#2,qR nr rprR r# 

^ f#r jm^r #nr nr n#n fa# ^if RTnrcf #m n # fanfan 

TOT# RR R7 OTTRTftrnR 7WR nr (?nRT7 farg Rf ffif RR 

ifr RRRstr r #r % nrro rr- nniR Rnfaffan r# famr rt wnwr 
jriTmifanTR ^r Rm#RR % snWR % fan nif # vfari«n 
rr nr rptR n# if fant rt rfanT 1 wfa#w rr «rt %rr r# 
?[RRr fanr rtrrt rr Rrofam rrmirf #ri nr^ % fan et nr- 
fam# m rrr^r n# ^ f#f ntf tt fanr tot# rr *tr 
| r)t R| rr nn ?fr n^n 7|nr rr Rn fa nrr PtrPtr 
TOT# #TT ir WTiffaR R# R7 fanr RTRT I 

( 3 ) fa# R#R7R RTfEmr# # 7RT# nT RTOT# R# m 
?[rr n# % f#f RRn nfaR nr n#n, rr nn fa rr^Rfa ora 
rtort fnf#R r fanr rtr, fa# #rr rt mr7 if ^ir r# # 
## ^ fair rr ?m r# fanr rh^t rr nn fa r? #rr rt 
mrr rr snfanT# % fatfan ^r w#r R^f ^ : 

TT 75 rr Rnfann % rrrjr mfin nfarwr Rnr, nnfrn 
RfaRtRR RT##Rn RRT RT %RfrR RfaRWR faftn RRT ^ 
nm# ^r q# nf ain r# jjfn 1 Rrm mfanr# q# nr ^rr 
nr R#n IV^n. %nfm RfawtRn Rnr, nr#n rNrirr Rprjfaftn' 
#n nr %nffn Rfamian fafan ifar if RRm Rfroffm fanr rtrt 
rrr-rrr #rr nr nm t#r rw# n r#r #nr 1 

12. R# m RTRTRR :— RtfiRTO Rtfanr# f(R fa# RR % 
RnmR # #5# ^ rfanr farfr ^rr m# ^ facj rwr 

t 1 

13. r#rw nifarnfa# nf vrfan#: — ( 1 ) rr fan# 
rrrt# % r#r 7?# jti %#n RTnrr % fanr#, rrciTRnf rt 
fawrrsn# nf TOT#' q# m ^rr n#, wptot# r# nr tjrr 

n#, f#R#R #t jRfMfaffn n#, RinR-Rnni mn wir n#, 
sfafa Rrn rrrr n# #7 infa# nf af n# rrm^ % Rnpf 
if rrr: n^rj# 2 , 2 , 4 , 5, e #7 7 if fafafw vrlwrt 
iff# 1 

(2) %#n R7m7 nr nfa fanm, rtrrw nr fanfa srfan 

5TTT, RR fRRRf %■ 3R#R W# RT% fan# # RIRR VlfaflRl # 

rr famR if fafirR nfat# if nf#P r# ##, sir Tan nr 
fanTRTWST nr j fa# qrn r#rto Rifumfr nr , r srm nr #frnr . 

R7^ RR- RRfRRR % RRfR nff wfar, — 

(n) q# % rrr; 

(rsr) Kifa# #nf^#RWRr; #7 

(n) jj;r rrr rrrrj % rr #rstr ir nfan fafa#)' 

5Rf#R#R ; 

nf mwa jr: sr?nrntfRR r# nr rtte# i 

( 3 ) Rnfann ( 2 ) if frf#R smrRn rt faumrenaT, 'fafom 

*r#n ffTTT, mrir r#r #tt n# m# fa# TRRfw nftmr# 
# RRfam (l) RT RRfRRR ( 2 ) % R#R f# STRTRn Rr 
fawRimn nf swa ’ r#' rt fa^f afar# nf rr f#qR ^ 
H#R n#f rt fair nifajm n7 reTOt # rr if f#Rf# r , 

P^ T ^ 1 fm5 *R TO RTfa^TR TTTOfaR Rfam# fRr fair 
RtT fa fa TO# ^ Rt #if, RR# fanfare #7 tffafq % fa^ 

JfafRn nr famRTmw anwr# rrt 7^aT i 



1966 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1 978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3(nl 

■ ‘ ■ " i — t-ttr:— ' — r* f TT ^ - 3E % ‘Vj '. ~ " — ■ -f tpEL- ^ 3 . 


(4) WTrofTwrorr w ti ww tow fwwf tot# ^ Prw Rr 
Prow! jRr wr *fto wsrtF wn wrftmTr wwr TOfrowt tot srwtw 
tTRl-ff'a-' vr?ft to wmw rft gw w,#wr, 

(to) ref ifwr % farr TEtfsrw WRptff % wwrw % w^rf w 
ftr rtto irar %■ Ptw ^tof wrwwt f#rr k tow TOr 
fttal TOT# % PTO, WraTTW fwwfw Erq-rr, 1963 

% towto wfrfw h tAt wPrPnR 9 if tFFrw ftrvj 
*A r grr f%nr--r if wtwPwf wwsjwfWTO w^nff affr 
sn^rff tot sejrto fwrwr wrwwrj 

(wr) TOj*j#t 5 % totrst # trw 2 if fwfwfw wwro ww 
r 5nrof?wwr tow % mrou if, ww ww ^ wrw# ww 
wwrwsw % ttow 4 if faPriast PtwwI, ari^ufr, PrJrowf 
wt wrwf tot totter Pfwt wertt, 

(w) wW TOW % WTOTO if, fR^f PTWWf, .WT*<rff, fFWTOFt 

wr ftft tot, aft te^tEt xttt ffht tow, wFwTffwF 
fTO* wwl wt Prflrw fVq tott, wfrraF frowt wrwwr 1 

( s) tot wro ftr fTOff wtorw wr Pnrrw Hr^nr wr wr#w 
irt wtowt wt >t pFwr tow, tot£ iff snftrvrO if tow $ 
faF fstf 5 PTT Pf to[ trw# wfiffw PFfft qrftmff iff w?wrwtfFF 
Prrftw TOPfFw'f to wwtw to# 1 

(e) if Pm iff * wtfEr | srRrrjftf^-fT arfer tot wwtw i?r 
w$ PftP TOPfwRf # wr 73 # iff ftwf PfwI aq-Tr wr wrfwro 
FTfHFFWTOTW % ftnt «ff PFwr to FTOwr % wr|, wwrfrwfF, 
ihft "TOrtfWT^t WT TOW WT WtfWTO R fWflfET araT ITTfiRTff 
% ftnj Rf m rstr «ff ar<r titfr ark^f ^f 

irf «ft nr ^rr wrir nr arftra ^rfr frar iurr «n 1 

1 4. WfPRr nw : — ^rfw irifr: % fawnr, mirnffw ifh: 

Pr*rniTOTwf iff TTRT qiffqFr friff trftnrrft aif 

fwff % snrKsf % ftro; TraFra w^itt % ^7 if qfF*T(r ft 
irrftR ^Efr : 

TI 75 ^ “F'urfw ar PTEET % TTi^-tr if I74T % ^ftfar 
Tmfg^r qflRrrft iff ’ftuPtit wrist % sw if wc rt «rtPfff 
Wlff PPfT anTfiTT wa TR ffr ITTIT wffrfsrw wr T : WPT'T W*F 
if gfW ¥7 If * ?! 1 

1 s. wTrrff fTPfftr arr ^twr : — m Tfrr: wm afiff jpfh ¥f 
Tiwd Tnwfn ^r wfwr J$f <Ffjtrr amTFr tAt ft$ ft 
srTftmfr fwrr ifwmw ft w^Pr ^ fk^r &fr f^Tftr ^ ftm 

¥ TTR T H’ if qftf aTpffT W66 *4 <. ff^f RTf ET fitf stf! ; ^ttit=t 
sqff sA’il, ftlWJ tEfEtrl P)«Tpff)f(T ^ml| (Tl^- ^ ■ 

(t) trftt firwnr ftr^wf fRairff qr wEr^f^tq- 

ht wsq fnreiff ff 'iwn: % ¥t if wt % ¥t 

if sttet wmr ftx % atwrij qr ®rq gqqq 

¥7% % ffriT 57IT ^ ^ 

PrM ffwrcf ht JRnfafta wr srt wrowf % titw 
< f wf fffwwr ^fVt ■Frpff ^ Prwssrsff % w^ttr 
ftfinff *Af tor 47T sffqT wrawai If | 

(n) ^T DT ff?ar Ira 1TPT qfi ? ffrir % qfwfr 
WlpTlf R -dMUptfiT | q^T Tariff % Tfff^R R <R 
WFT qff Wf^riT % fflE PfftfT STWRf ft s?qr Wfaftw 
ITlfR aftwr JIWR % ¥7 if % VW, ^jffq TnWTT 
% fWWlW fifft aEra Rf IT f; fHq ttET ¥f 

%■ Pttt ffrrr wHEttr jir ^-qm^r ^ % ftp? 
WIT ^fij I 


ftiqwi : 

( 1 ) TO wnfwf if f^qif WET % WWTO % fa<* W^f «Ff 
rr¥ hto | tAt fwnfv ^ wffljrr tt WEfFPwa; ^ |, 

Pir mriwf to to frowf sir 5 % tottot % ¥wrfwr 

e(i) % wtfrw WTg WlfT 5TWTT TOPT TOFT | Wtt W^WR 
fafrofro pFWT TOFT ^ I 

( 2 ) to wnmlt ir fwFif %t#Ht totot %■ srww wr w>ro 
Pertf % wsftw totEtto to wet to wIwt TOr% arr fwPrrow 
fWWT WRTT t, ^tw WTOK % WTOpTOT JfWWTW T:n^frWjFfT aflWT 
wwro if fr wrwr Trotl wtw ww wfwr to w -jir w wrft ft 
www-www tt fror wroww jrt wftpFlwF iff wrtf 1 

1 6- TOW TOWF Wfif ft TO fW'4 TO iTrqrWfWW : — WTOWT PfWW 
% fWWW 142 ^ TOTOWf ^ WlffW JTf, ¥PffTTW WEST ¥t 

wqA' wsftw ifro TOfif wf*r pFfff towtItot wrwroO <Ff w<pff wtr 
ir WEFfiwTOrr wr TOfW tow towf >FTir % fror Pff PnhEwff wtr 
qfrrftwmf ^ wrffw toPeff ft wlror ^fift aft to% irt 
wftRfwF TO TOlf I frorj TO WTOT srrfTOFF TMwfFF TfRfTOff 
BRI ’3WWF 3 WW % W0 ijfir, TO'Ft PlWfWTOT ftx rffpTOT % 
Ptit TOwf-WW WTOST 3-TRTOfT TOT l|WT I 

1 7. ifHT wAsTT WfVFrff 3RT TRspTTTT TOftlwf TO wE^f7: 
tAt W'TFfft ifWTO ¥t pFW Wff WlfTWTOWf TO W^ laT^ TOTr 
TOFT:— ( 1 ) FwPrWW ( 2 ) if FftflfwF PPNwf % - WEflF Rf?f 

jit, ^fPiw trtof to TOif fVwrw, wetttr wt qff^ *rsw wtffFTO 
wiErroff, Erir tf^wPt ^ fsraFr wr^vi srt wr ww% wtftw 'nfrowt 
WTOTWffTOT TO Fl'{, %W(T fftSTT wftTTOXf WT ^Tljr WftTTiRf CRT 

WFSJTOF WWTW wr PFFI WTO TWTW Fit fww^i Wrtf if w^ WFT FFTf 

ft Pf TOTO TRTOff : ifWTT TO WTOWT wPtwwtw Pfwt WWT 
wgrfr to fFTOMijF wwT W(frw xft- jt; wrwrwwF tot wilrwr, 
wwtw; : — 

(i) WFsprtF ttow fmrPwF fttoO &wto irt fw ■■jFto^wf 
fwmw R Tff w? wr Pf W? FWTO fTOWR WT, TftT 

(ii) , wfw wwfwF WTftrotf «Ft rw ir, — 

(to) WgW'r if TTW7WTO TOfeFlt -W>.p, Wr 

(to) W^sft WWWWW I I 

( 2 ) FTprwW (l) if FfRTpTF WrftTTOTftwf TOT W? TOpfF F^f 

fpff Pf t, — 

(i) 1 JR PfWW 9 ( 21 ) if WWETfRTrPrF ?FF ^7 ¥W if 
Fwfiwwf F?f wgrff TOT FW RTT if WfiTTOTOF TOt Pnwif 
FTOW TOT WpfTO if pTWT TOFT WfTTpT Wr WpTWWF TO 
TTpjgf^F TOrif if fromr % TORTO jjflT ^ WT frowif 
ffwt Trow TOT TrfwTO PrwT TOFF ifTOT TrtSTT TfltlTORr 
WT %TOT. Wfarorff SRT TfWTW iff FRfTO if WTO wf % 
WTTOTJ WFSJTOF PFWT WWT \ I 

(ii) toF wrr w^Efr WTTOTftTF WTrortf ifwroj% wwFtr if ft 

w?rt w^l to wfarwTOT wt, wr 

(iii) ^ TORrforo tfto totoPitf rtotO- ifwro% w r wtw 

% wff if wfwTO w^f I, w^t wgrof tot wfsr?wwF TOt i 

fFTO«ff: TOTTW-WTOf WTWTO if WpTWpfF TOW Ppr wy^Wf 
TO WftJTOTOF TOT# WT FFW# W^fff TOf TO?# # Rtt^ ifwnwffSTT 
wfwroftwf tAt #TOT WfuTOTftwf F# TOpRTWt ?Pff Wf Wtw 
WTTOT BTTT www-www R FRf PFWWTt WRTRF WT Pnffw WT#?ff 
^ WSftF WTTW-WTTW WftrTOpTW TOt WEf I 



jjE'rnr II — rjtj* 3 (ii)] 


TOWTRTO: fPTTf 22, 1 0 78/3TmT 3 1, 190 0 


1967 


is. Miff qr qftqttqTff qt sqq: — (i) Pm 13 % 
3W’n qt qfqqrq wr tr4 fqqT, 4qftq qtqrrt in 4tf fq'qrq 
ford tflq qr qftqtqqr qt sqq 4ft qrt q4qT ffqft ft 
WPT q<TTq TPT J'fTT 4 jq T5TT 4 qfqt tfr ftf! ffq4 tg 
*4tq fftr fqrqq sin qqqtfer qrt ’ft q$ $: 

qtqj qrgt qiffr qftfltqT fm fqtqq irtT ^r^ftsar ut 
tflyfq 4 qmif 4ft 4t qf If, tgr fatr 4qrqq 4t trfqftqq 
4gqf4 qfVffTTTOT 4 qfcqFtq faff? 4434 ?4t4r Tt 4 ft f4g 
qtr sqq 4 fair trlffrq qgl gift q% ?fr fifat 441 4434 *4tq 
4 qqfqtq «qq vr qftrrnq 4414 trnr tqtr 4 qfqqr gr : 

qttj qg fit f4 4ft 41 q$ ?4tq 4 ff 4144441 4 is 
Sffimw HT CPF qrtlf U4tJ 44 gq4 4 fr 41 qrq ft, 4 *4417 
<m 44 4f4 4 firq fan 4 sot qn qqftqq tfafwq *r$f gfaT 

! >nr qqr far tufar qr qftqfaqr 4 qrtfw qftq^q 4 Mt qqT 
ft: 

qtqj qg 3 tYt 4t ftr ffar fqr# 4 q*q?£r 4 gq faqq irtr 
narar nrftq 4nffa ffar faqfar Pnrrq 4fpT, 4qftq ffar faqtq 
4«rr ffgqr, fan qsrrqq 4 qqq qtrqtf 4 qwif irrrt 41 qt 
fffipT fatmtlq 4%rr qr «q faffn trfqfa 4 fafat qTffTtq 
qT fatfa wfar 4 qwfl 4 qffa gift > 

fe^rt : ( i) qqrq trm tqg 41 4tqr 41 enf qrqt 4 qqfaq 
4 f4f, t41q 4 fl gt4 41 qrfrqr rm qq4 qjff (qrqft 
fit qqrqqt) «rf 4r fftfa; vp^r4cr rfafa «pt <sHr (ftf tfq 
fqr4 4 fag qqqrq qqr fqqpr 4 faqtm 4 wfar qfq qar 
4 f4qr qqT fr) 41 |, 441 4 f4qr <snfqr i 

( 2 ) qqfqqq ( 1 ) 4 f44t aw 4 jj!4 §f 41 f4tg 4qftq 
4tw fqqlq 4 %it, 4qftq cftr fqqW f4qrq ^rarr tUfm fit 
W f4f4n tufqfq 4 f4tfl qtsrrtq qr f44q wt4ht 4 uwat 
4 qtfPr tf4 sjq, qft<rfr 6rqpr qq tp^lff tnpnfl sfk q?q 
q*41 4l qqrf tar4 4 fqo; «qq 4ft qrt q%47 art qq4 Hqiqr q y 
qrtqroq 4 qtflq | 1 

( 3 ) Prfqqt 4 frfqqlq qr jqfqfqzftq Tt4 tt ^rr4qr nlqr 
4ff4 4t wrq qqqq qrt4 4 f4f 4ftl 4 qq 4 qqfqq fWr 
fit 44 qnral' 4 *qq qqqq Tt4 4 llrf 4ffr 44 qi4 f44t 
aflqtrtfarr *rr4tr tt wrfr ffqT qnqr ithtopp q^t ?4 tt (414rf 
4qflq fWrw Prqrq 4ffrrr qq Itr 63 ) 1 

la. fqfqqt 44 4l srf4r :— 1 itr qqtqpr 4faf qarc 4 f4f4f4s3 
ttI*R3T 4 fWTPT fl4 qr fqftjql 4 fqfqqtq qT ^q fqfqql^i 4 
qr wiqfwP f4f4 4 4 w nfm 4 fff qtnt 41 4f4t 4 
wtflq fit qqq-qqq qt 6m fwtrq jTtr qfti+fqq a Tfu i 4 
trftwq 4 q41q tf4 gq, 4qftq trtqqt 4 fqqTqf 41 ^4 
qqffl fqqft qr qqqfqql 41 ft 4qftq qtqqt 4 jfq: t a r iff i tftq 
f , trwT-cq ffl 4 qq 4 f4f4wr 4t4 4 fff fffqqt 44 41 
trfmqt ?Wf 1 

20 . trfqTq fit W; — 4»iflq qtqrr< 4fqqT»fl fit q v ir afl 
41, qftqrrT qfarq fftr4 trtrfq ®raq%qf fit ^sk ft <£, 
4ft ^Pt4 41 f4 trf4r ft4t: 

qttf qf qq qrqf4, — 

( 4 ) tft' qfrqqr ttfqrw ffq4 tTtqfq BJiflqfTTqt qT qqrt 
41 f, fqrr 4(mrq 41 qgqRr 4 f4%r fqqff qT 
fqqpff 4 qfrrrt gf, fit 

38SGI/78 — 3 


(qr) qsrrt qt wtm 4f qt fit OT4 qftrtrrrq 41 qqfq 
6m 4qnq 41 ft nfqfa 4 qrr wr 1 %qrq f4qn 
qt 41 qrc[ fftr4 44 ^att qt 41 qt fit 
ttr4 afqfqR 41 wqfti ^q wqrq 4 Ml qrartq 
qr fqfq qr4tr 4 fafgq gl 1 

21 . ffqqrf 3flt qq:— tt ffqqf 4 ^qtrft siVt 
frtr 4tr 4 faf ttrtl 4 qq 4r qrfqq qrt4 qr4 qrqrtq 
fqftq Prqq, 1993 4 ^qr-41 4 ttsftq tg4 (fit 414 
q;q qrt4 4 f4f q fqr 4 ; rflq qrq 4qsq 4 qrsqq 4 qq qt4 
4 ftrf 4^alq rrtqqt f^ftq f4mq 41 qqq-tmq qt nwiflffn 
q;q wf4rqr 4 qflq tf4 grr) 4qftq trtqqt 4 ffwrq 41 
qt4 4 fff fit ffqqrff 4 fa'qraq 4 6rcr ®rq fft <pt4 41 
jtl qfwqt glnl ; 

qt'j fqrqfrqrnq q»nft 4 fqq 4?rmq 41 ^4 qgqHr artr 
41 antrtfr, Mf :— 

(t) 4tf qT ffaqr ffqqq fpq qqrq rtw tqf 4 
trfqq gl; qft 41i ffqqT f4ft qqfir rm 4 f4f t 
41 tq4 qrf rg4 41 gfr qqfir 4 ft f w 41 tflqT 
htjj qrt4 4 t'Trqq 4 ftp f?q 4 qq 4 qrtr qrqqr; 

(qr) f?q 4 frq tpi wi 4 ttfim 41 4lf qtqqfatr qr 
rrqnq fqffqr-trfqqr ; aftolPifi qT ffl f414qr 41 fftr4 
Mftmw tqqq 4ttr rTq: qvnqpmff w f4rr qrittr ^ 
i (q aqfqq 4 fff o.'PH 1 h fqqr-a (ftr trufl fTrpfl; 

(q) qrrqfft xrarfrr 4 tslt 4 M 4rf v4i fftm ffq 
qq tw qqnt 4 flftrqr gl; 

(q) q:4t qr fqWt qtitTtl 4 rmr rMl4! qgqlq qT 
qtrq# 4trff 4 f4q 41t qrtrt qr 4fw; fit 

(q) 4l4 tR ft qiqr^rq: 4qflq qq fqsq 4 qrsqq 4 
Mr trqr 1, arqrq 4 qr«Tt qt ffrr4 414 
M xr4 41 atqrqqT 1, qfq qq^rr fjq qq nro 
qqq 4 qf'lt qi(t %: 

qtTf qg fit f4 ^14 6rqrq 41 qqr 4 qrtq 4 
qr ftlq 4 4'sftq tt qqsq qrtr qrq 4 ffrr iiay (nr) 
4 qsrlq at q^t^ir qftqlqrg ft ttr? qqq gift fit 
(n) 4 aifrt qq qpff-at qfttftqnj qrtlf 
tqq gift 1 

M'tttq : vq 14qq 4, "4Fqqr” 4 qqr4q q4H 
qfW4 44 qtrf qtrf qffqrf fit q| 41 ? f4?5 tqqfqq, 
qrqqflq fit tpq Hqtqpft 4 f4q ipTg f4tnr qt 44 4 fqrj 
qgl qr fqfqqqq 5 4 fTnpq 41 qq re 4 w4q 14qr 

qrrg qT 1 

22 . sqiqTt rrqTqq :— gq fqqff 4f441 qrq 4 gl4 gq 41, — 

(qr) ^41 qtgfl 4 qsr 4 ff^ qfr qtwrqnj fr qtwntl 
qqflq 4 ffg ql q^l, ffr^ tftqr, trrq qtqqtl qr 
f44r qR rrrfqqqft 41 fw qqtr srrfl qt4 4 finj 
qiffqfl 

(<t) qttqt 4 sqqsr sqmt rmqq t4 qmr qrlqf ffqq 
qrt4 4 M qfl qtqrqqrf; fit 

(q) qrqrfft q.Rrqqf fit qqqqfr 4 qfl qt q r qq rf ff^ 
qq4 qqnfl ft ttml 41 41qq fqqq q><4 4 ftqj 



1968 


THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Ptot II— Sec, 3(ii) 


tu*rre fa ffafa: ffarr m fan, ft ^ Tfa 

totto fa qrofft % ftrq fftffar fa qrfafr : 

wr (tt) *n qrw (t) % qfaq fa# 
smrmr ffar farror fa qrofft ft; fftq to tot it 
fftffar *0 fa TT fafa fwf TO TTWR TT rjfa 
TOTO TOST WT % TO | | 

FprfpPt'T to fftqqft "qrorft toiTi’' Tfqirrqfttfa 

qftrfftqq, 1956(1956 TT l) ifft I 

23. ntmrw to to fan — ftfatq totr far tut trtr 
qT TTJq qTOTRft % ftfa from ftfar ft: qfa ft, ftnfaq TOTR 
tfit famr to qrq ft; fro *rarq fan far fa fftrftT fan tot 
*11% fa fan % Ji'ffU % to ^Krnfr^fn nfa fa fa w % 
ftrfaq qwR % wr ft; farfafar qw % faro q Tft, vrrri fa- 
faro (fair ft nir nfaf % fan snfirsw >rfa nt faqftmr w 
ii<t.im % qr faft if Pratt ff farfam faq % mft faft fait 
% fanqt fa far nft % f%q fa# fqfmrt totPht i it if i 

2-1. far qqfa <PT fTT.IT fafft: — far 0 qf RTrft ft: WtffT 
Tljif jq, fafaq q-nqR ^ fawnff Or wrqfa fa far rofa ft; 
(fa fro^r wroifa faror % faw ?f) ffam T$t qro q^ ttw wi 
% fatTO Tl(f & faTO fa qT fat TO^TOr nft fa qfat fa 
fa fan fafa i ffaft Or qn % from fat qfa *nw 
qqq if qftTO frw fa qr fat qroro qfa fa ftfat fa 
% fan fan %m fa fa qrofft qmq'r; faff i 

ifirf— — ( i) iff if %H qn to to in fat *rrqqr qr 
13% u tot m fat Pm nqqr to tt fa Tifa: % |f tij wfafa- 
ffqr T <n: fan qqT iff fa Tff ^ffaf TWt % fafft 
ffartT jirr sr%ftrq nff ft 1 

( 2 ) faO Or %qq it if w # ffRin nfan tt to 
fa T$ fam O <(ffa % « 3 W «n if 3 |t fl ffarsqfqqT- 
<j 4 qTTnr O Tfir if O ffa 13% njfaT toOO mffrorft 
Birr i 3 fT tott iwrfe faqT tot ft rt Oto 6^3^% frrorif 
vfar n %mTr tt %ffarfa tO t fan itot f«f 3 r qrr qrfat tttot 
mir^qT 3 ft 1 

(3) ffw W faTOT faiw Tf TOSTq fir faqr ffRf 

unn lqfar tt nrVr %v qijT fan urar ^ Osfq Ot 

ffarfa fanr tt fro % %qffq %fa ffafar fanr nr 

tttt ft, *faf wiqtq Mfa ffarfa fmrT, % insm if 5 fw Omf 
im sqqftrr fan nifaT 1 

faqur — 1 : f*r fam jra urn urfar tt snfar qqf fan urtn^f 
inr »fTf qrr sfftmf fafarr nfa faw qr O qfaft ^f 

trfa aifarrfr % faftfsr ftf 1 

faqrcpq — 2- %qSfqqron: % faqfaf Or tottoJ O faf^rr 
fpeqfat qmrrfa % fam qr q^faq Or qipf O 'jff mfaqqt 
#1 

qr g fom r : faFfq inqTn totti % tt qmrr qfa^q 
ft faTffO Wfawqfa 5 \ T% if qfTO nff ft I 

famr — 3 : Om %t 3 i faqfar fawnf % ijqq iTtfaq'f fffa 
ato njjq fqfffaqfa qfa' eft qfanfaqf O qq faqrq % fsmfa 
fafarr % flrffa %fa «tttt % faw qr ^TEfar % qfa if Oqtq 
qfafaqfa qfftTT % Ta 126 wfa 127 % fafaffa?: flfaqqt ^faf 

fam — 4 ■. fafaq qfiqq O faTO % fair far %fa ^faf % 
faror t#mjw to % Oro faf ft, fa^q fffa q^sfa 


O fajff fa O qfaqqt tffat 1 fa 3135.1 % TOifaq M %<> 2 % 
qffafara qqrqpffr eittoto qff ft 1 

25 . farf farm qftmff fa fafafa O fanri : — ( 1 )— tt 
nffr ffar famr O totEt qf fajtf f t ffanff % wOt faffar (ffat 
ft to faf rfaqfa Tf TOfaerar % ’nfatwr/^TO %fa % tt 
E ffTOrfr fa faq fatffq qronr % fTOrq jr^f Tfat % ffaqfafaq 
faqr fa?% ft: qimn O Tfafa : — 

'fa wffai/fnqq fm TOmq (tqqffarrq) fa rfaffir % Tifa 

fan mr ft , (fam fa° wr° w° %° 

qrfar ” 1 

( 2 ) to Tfa fnr qqraq fa qrofa tt fftfaf ft: qtffq 
farfftrq ftffa ft to far rfaffa qT ^rofa ^wf faffn/ftTO 
far im faroifa fa ffafrq totr ftr fftnq srt, sr?t qfafq 
far qqf^ ^faq qfafa qf ft, q^fr q?r % fftrofarffaf «*** fa?+, < 
fafaq fanfaf : — 

"TO fTffar/fnro far qrorr fa urofa % faff Pm mmr 

ft ftRin «nT» %® Trffqr '’’1 

( 3 ) to Tfa fa# Mfa fa Prfaf triff nifa mm 
srfaTOf ht fafa Trft jq ftfafq totr ft: frfa frorq strt 
qfa ETTOfTO ffav TOTTO^/nfafar ffaf q^lfTf 7 % TOlfaf Trft; 
Tiff fa nfa ft, to to nfafan ifgTTffcTr/ftTO far far 
sTfimfr fa TOTfinT fTOrrq 3Rr ftfa q^fr it ffarffaro «cr 
fasqR q^f%5 fa nfaf: — 

"TO qfaf fa ffarq fa wj faftrof to fam tr% ;q, 
mfafa fftn TrpjRffa urm ir TOiqii TRft: *rrff fa Trfa ft, 
ftftrn «mr® w® ffffa 1 " 

26- ffaTO ElTf *qfayf ( 1 ) ffaffq vrffafa TO qfqfqfaq 
i9 58 Kfa TRr ffafqr ffarr qmrft: 

■Rif far Prto fnffq faftfat to qrofaro ffaq, 197 s 
ft: nm ft: ftfa ft: fa fa qf fftffa tot, qifa ffar. qq fWr qrfa, 
fa qf fftfa TOqqrftr qr qqfq fa qf ffafft faftrof to qqTq q 
TTfarfaq to fftfaf ft: str« ft: fa fa qfa q^ff, qrfa, qfaroq 
qT fa qf TOT Tlfalfa fa ffaffa % at7 fa ^ [ ffa'' F I fa TO TO 
q>jTr fat fafa to tt Pr ft qq qrfafff BTff WfaroqT qr 

qfaqf q faf fa TOfa froft ftfa qfar tff fa qi faf TOf3T nff 

fftm tt qr fat Tfanfr fa fa : 

TTOJ q? far ffti TRTR ft; ffaq qfafa % qfar fftfa 
qrfTOrff trt tftrq qq qfa qroFftro to to q^fftt fa faq to 
TO fq: ft 5R1 fftfftfaqqqT qfftq^q qftffftqfafi 

( 2 ) TOfftqqf fa Tff tot frorf%fiTO fa<rrq q^ffttfa: — 
(t) fa fanro wftr to qqiTO ftr qfanq qifaTOff; 

(w) TSTTqiTOTO'f %qT%TTfa ftfiT TOT ft: RTO %, 
q«nT q^Riq far to farro ft; wfaqro qrfTOTft ; 

(it) qrqqq TOit famfaiw fftqiq ; 

(q) fqfaf % W RT TRTR ft: farfqfir, ffafa VlfftTOf TT 
qrtfRq fqrr q^nro ft: nafa % q3Tq % qrfr 
fftrq qq fftfaf qr wifat ft; qipfa fftnr 

nqqr ; far 

(®) tr-tr ftff faR qRfaq tto-tr fft'qiq ft: fftfqw srrftr- 
qrrff fqqfa fafaqt ft faff fa ffa qqrro ft: 
trofair qqq ir wfiroffa fa faq, far to fftroR 
to ft fftqq qrnqfa ^fq 1 



1969 


Krror’PTTH'Rr:^^ 22, i 978 /mr$ 31, 1900 


[ *rr t [I--ui 3 ( ii ) ] 


*23$ 1 

tomTwrcfr to gto 

ffa to ftTwrt gwm 

(v) fft Mr : 

I . ’T-T^-rr-r ikwn mwrn'. ggrTfa 1 town tt.mm to WRTt 

nrt°r ftoflio-m nf fttot 1 

2 - to toftoton mrpt.rt, ytoto toftoto fatorrtm, 

gf fttot 1 

3 . smrrfR fg^ipp, ftorrt town fttot 1 

4- jpMRtftto toto *jfto?r nm to, mtowm 1 

5. KTRTUT, fttot JR toR ^ fttot I 

6, PWTW JR trgtojFT to*TH to nyjfttTTWT, Jfttjg I 

7- ftolT, f«FTt toWntWT'Tmrtoing', jtot I 

8- WTFf Mr, fft>P to tfnfR I 

9. ^W-totomr tmWTC?rf, jn ftTtT ftftuH-gft toftmT, 

nt fttot 1 

1 0- WT g£T fMtwF to RR fttonr , totoRT mfto 
town 1 

I I . fttor ftrt town fe.fttnr 1 

1 2 . trm iita, tmfft yft tom, to fttot 1 

1 3. fttoim , grmtor tom? nfttomr w yl ftrftto town 

toto 1 

1 4 . ftow, fn$t town ilmr, nmftn; 1 

1 5 . wrw, irtto to tom, to fttot 1 

1 fl. WOWl V4I f'T^TTj 4 '34 tpl +ft-n rtom, g*to I 

17 . ftonnr, tom nrwtot ftrsfr tom, n* to i 

1 s. fatom, torn nretor smrtrn tton, tom i 

19. ftto, toto ntmto nftnrsmT, totn i 

2 0. ftoki^i, toft 5 * 1 f^-H R’T I 

2 1. gmn nrrtom toto, nifto town to tontor i 

22 . n w to to: rr nrr wfator i 

2 3- tor ftnnnr i 

2 4. trppH, tom; fnwr,tonmm i 

(nr) orrar ftnm: 

1 ■ nWT fttol *Ti , TW^T tftt 4 4 tH ft f r 1't#TT 7 T7 l ftttoi I 

2 - fttom, tre$tn Hlto tom, TmjT I 

(n) Mftrftomftnm ; 

$ft ftopr mrftto ftn°m to; ftftwn ftoiwm, 
nmjt 1 

(n) toft tom; 

1 . nww, ton nn tom 

2 . fator, tom nn to nt o nrto jtro i 

3 . nsw, to mj ftorn srra'to i 

4 . to, to to torto nn ftnra wftortn i 
j. nrjrsfttmr, nrwtrrnttr nftntwn 

e. f^ffrir to tor wtoto, nwiur totom 1 

7- ^rTrj^R;, *to Prtonr, to i 

trfiTiiir torsrg 

(v) ftoi 3 Fto : 

1. i 

2. 'RfR jpfppm i 

3- WOTST, 5 M WTto, JTWff I 


4, ftto ato< u i to, “to to 

tom, ’itofto, ftoft to 

f^rto % M to i 

(nr) ftor inmrr frR'i : 

1. toftopp, stTWtop trrg^T to tosto, i 

2 . ajw rrmra to ftto, ^ Mfr i 

3 - w tt nrftorr i 

(n) ^ Mft : 

rrto ctjtt , rt i 

tot ftsrnro 

1. *r^t Msrf, JTtrsqrt writ; to i 
2- tort tw i l i t , ••rmr •nw . i 

to : 

ftiwtr (wtoifl) to® to jo Rio tgtjTfto torn i 
awrt town 

(t) f^n Mpt : 

i- fator rrmT^rTt to ™r ImrT wFanfr, rfto ^0 f e 
tflo rflo v o i 

2 . w-r jtotot, rmR npT fwrv totoR (tw-to) 

3. to rsfrftot, tor-ftojR tti to town (Ipra 

srto) 

4. g^r ^tito’j; inr; 4 T Trtocg gftrftto (torjt) 

5. ^rng nfttfrsTgi jofrfrmT, 4 n < 'it trr fgtit TfttfrsRT 1 
«. *r?rr wtfrsrnr, ^tjt gpr fanjrr gt 1 

7. fto trtoto to tor wftmtt «Rtjt nra top 

fto^nr to, gt ftto 1 

8 . m gFto, ^trt wto to, ftot 1 

9. *rtt<T tow, torR tom to, gnto 1 

10- *prr?T torar, toRg top to, wto 1 

11. rrrpr rrfto, fgwrr to, nm 1 

12. g^rtow ftcg wtom rrrgrg, 1 

( , j) to^T fggm : 

1. TWm- (tort, TrfTFfri 1 

2. gto wpjfn, tjnxiT 1 

firran to w«n* wni jrarw 

( v ) rrtfffrr frgm : 

1. gfTftorr, wrafm jtrto town 1 . 

•2, jwrrtnrrRrw, tp^rn jrrrTitpi, TtTTtrr 

3. ftovT^, togirrn, to ft tor . 

(ej) ftrwr ftwrn : 

1 . fttortr, 'grtn «pt TP^tn jtPtrsmrt, to fttot 1 

2. ftow, %tom ftto ftorrwr, to fttot 1 

3- fttrc, jfrmn; iffto ?wn to gtrm tort, fttot 1 

4. ftow, nrtotn rpr ftonn nnupn, ’P'gwr - 1 

5. rrsnsr, nsrrfto to ntorto rmrtot, tom 1 

6 . ftorm, nft frrw fttontm, fttot 1 

7. gw tntr wfto^t (gnrr toto) 



1970 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 


fWir 


jjst trw i 

f«TCT WTOT1 

(tt) WTf*TO TtA trOTT : 

i. Aerr 1 , ^rnrcr ti-h i tY) 0 ( fr^FfT i 

2- fYrwF, %wr i 

3- 'TRfT TT Trc^TT URT WPTT3 I 

4. 01 fd X, ‘H i <A 0 <,fi l < STWTRTj WtftjT, TTTWTT I 

5. ElRR, '4TT?T 0 <TR TWTRT, I 

6- WT, 'TTO TRETT 37RTW, ^RWPJ I 

7. Ofj TIC OR toY 7 * r An RRT fTTTT. 7 1 IVl T TIT I 

s. *r?r t^sr, w?r Tfwrtri't, wwr i 

9. *nrr st^hr, faRjfYA Yr Atr TtwlRTr, siYttris i 

10. *E?r IURPfr, ^dTfWt tflT I 

1 1. E^T ST5RJR, I'll TH for I 

(w) STT fr'iTFr : 

WT fWoTR, TfflT foir i 
(’r) twt ftr«Trr : 

1. Al h 1 , 43 -i j tOi r 1.1*1 < tttt i 

2. YrAt ottt-ijw ^<n?rw, ^TffTr, Ttfftrr, 

ijwf, ipronr, ffofo, |OTra, rhji:, *nmr, rirjt, reirr, 

37?, fwN, Tfirw arwr *Ar ^rtVt i 

3. RRRfoR trrfw 1 

4. AtAwt fafoirR, tfFrHipFi *Ar form swr-tpr 1 

5. rftthr, ^Yrr-7[W AYc YtAt sttet hjfr, YNYr i 

6. RYTTd T, A) Tf-RFR FA" 7 4 i-;Yt HtTTRYllR , tITT I 

7 . TJ3T 'RnRW, 'fosflT TNW ffoWT StTl 7 1 'Ill'll, ftcvfl I 

8 . RFPRT, <R 3 fYr ^PIK-f^rR, 'T'wfoltf I 

9. 'RTRT, (f^RTTWr) , ^Rlf 

10. ^TR-S|W TERR, tr^TTHlT, tfk J^Tf I 

1 1 . ffoRiR, fo^RTr wYc wEgxrr (,$r#r Twnr-jjRjr *At 

AYrr-^w), Tf fasfo 1 

12 ffonriR (Tnjjffo), ijrfor 1 

13 fafoirR (Arr), Rf flmft 1 

1 4. Rftrarr fww (foRT-ii[FR xftx fojffo swtt-ititr) rp£ 1 

1 5. fosT-l 4tRI<l- 17 ['RT 'TH7ER, RRJT | 

1 6- Yrt t rri, tjrArrt I 

17. WTT-RR (f[^W I 

18. ftfoflR ffotRIR (STR-Rt) I 

19 . Prflsrr PrfoiR (wifopr) i 

20 . frTWr fTYrr; (w^utt, w%n?r 'rYt smurr) 1 

21 . fR^Tjrv, ^'iraTf *iYc ?mnt (trnr-vr) 1 

22 . srflnwT YtYtt, «rrafYr tprt Wt (twst-tr) httt 

Tnryc 1 

23 . fT#rr TrT wfoTTfr (twt Tiftmfr) »rf 'PnFffr, JTwfsftT, 

RTTTI 

24. STHIT^rP, STRo o IT o ^ I 

25. fw"TT, ffmd' wtYt ?At uy-Tritt, HrWlTr, 
tYflfr ( 

2 6. wt flYc LrYuft ijit wttotiw (*TRfrr 

^rfwpRTH, 19 76 % WtfTT ¥HTf TT wY % fw 7 

fh^w PiiI "i yi 9 srfimct, irf L'-Ti , ' i ( . 'i 1 wnr 1 

2 7 . fHYuT, tw ^fh: nf ftefr 1 

28. *rsw, Yiwft siNYt (werrsAx m-w) 1 


29. frYrrTP (sfto mYc irt 0 Yitt) , ^flRT <frr awE; 

9pT! 1 

30 . RYiw (am YNt) *fYn-iipr ieAt YtsYt wit-ot 

3 1. TUTT, TTT’Hpr TTTTfrr fliftlT trfERRW I 

3 2. 1TTPT Rfw, WTRRST-'fR tN ^rfYPr I 

IJU *THT*RT 

1. , m^TTT Hjrt I 

2. Msiu. httr =i6mr tcr th^N tniroft, girnwiT 1 

3. E^tTPr^RtiY: TYr^nRiFT ^ptwtt trr^nr 1 

4. 031 YfY^rFjYRfYi jfYrr 1 

5. ITmrft M ym tl w <h STT^TT, IHTT^ToTTT 1 

c. PfYftr (till. ) 

7. T^rftYftT, frrfT^r^TflT 1 

8 . ^Tti3 731 Pi O wf, vi r 77 i f?i«4ra ?fhrr jfiw 1 

9. tmmr TTitTiRr 1 

1 0. TT^lPfYlPFi tfl 8 1 1(J5V TFT I 

11. iYRR ttttot, tfYrr ijtstt tft i 

12. t^tYkIwf, YtAt fYoN ^ftrr iw, Yrt, 1,2,3 wYt 41 

13. fYY?m, ttYth uY [Y'Ci0 *3.0 1 

1 4. ftYvrr, Wlti tftwiYre fwr «m 1 

1 5. wiftYnr, fr®t *nf twrt wf 1 

1 6. tTrepff, a I, nftT utt irrflr 1 

1 7 . ttNT, ^TR-yffn TfClT^ I 

is. faYurar, 'TT'W-fwrT Rrrr-fimK tttttt i 

1 e. im-wtrT, tr«j yr nrT 1 

2 0. faY?W, HRTTtr ftsirr iqYr RrTT-fWH ffRTTT, Rf ftwft I 
21. ijiwi tYst fYwm 1 

HR ttwt «ifa 

(t) tRTRFl ?At PttYsTR fir TT^Tl : 

1. r®bi <r YnAn. 1 

2- f ^'i4 O lY 7 | 

3. frTW *n^f?r 1 

4. TJT-«n^PT, lit *?TTT I 

5. tsftfRIR, UftT PrrYl ArTW I 

0. frrfN TrfYr, t jjw hYt >^wt arftmf)- i 
7. 3’T-tH^TCl, Pr+l»n7 iflq ) 

(w) tYtt, ttthAt: iAt : 

1. jjw hFtt 1 

2. fwt {rYuw I 

3. VFTT3R, flOT I 

4. fYfTW <TT^Tfl I 

5. T. r i 4t 7 , >At 1 | 

6- wArr, ijiAr iA? «tt i 
7. RnAnfrqi^w 1 
8- T3TTT54TW »1 RfYn I 
9. ^54 fYrrf ^jftfrTT 1 
1 0. IJ5R lpftPnR, Rt*fr fa*rfTT f^»TTT I 
1 1. fwr I 
1 2. 4tfaR TT'JtW I 
(T) T1HT1 sAt RTf^ : 

TTTOT TTTTT tAr TTT JJTFfl I 



[hr II — u«r 3 (ii] 


'(U) i 

1 . it w ?W?nrr sur TfkFJRT i 
2 ■ fRfJlF, <-fWF>T7: 7TWH I 

3. ht^rt 'TTO’^sfrPTTrfriT ir^ifttim hYi PkuF, RRft'ft 

fwir i 

4. fauuF, girw ufc %uu Rinft i 
(r) fe=f) : 

iT^rf^pp, gfiro i 
(u) TtF^fl : 

giaU Trfau I 
(u) hwifust^f : 

1 . R57T FlfaU I 

2. TIT TTRTF, IRRUT I 

3. fFFW UiqUU I 

4- PribTF, i 

5 - f'rtvj 4 ', yft F I 

fl. pT^TTTT, FFTRU iRTii I 

7. fwr PkuF i 

8- fafaw, 'TTJ'TTSR tft( TTjfuftrRT I 

9. iT^rMwiF, gfCR I 

10. gw lkftPnR *frt ufo Frf^r«i (^fRTfnPwrR) 

(sr) ArtRit : 

JTOTTTFUU I 

T.rPfwtrk TiRufaF iprn: fauR 

i. PkHF,uruF?r$T uriwV swrPtf UFRift, ugtf i 
2- ft^STF, *RflU HTgRUT sgTt I 

а. PkuF, ufaum aftnaR uk srr ufur (Trfrrwu 
nw) I 

4. hotw, utfRFu Jrt HrifR i 
s, %uk tr$r uruR i 

б. PrkrF, JTFfu Pkwruir i 

•T7. P^UF, Tm UTIJUFT P^WIW I 

* TOUT *ftT ufWR HFiTTU UUTWU 

(f) fsrFrnT t 

iRrf'TtRF, FHTFR ^tomt 1 

Ttffrr *rmf<F <jfa uhtuu 

(f) H>tfrf*TF fVFR fR'tTTiT I 

1. sVo qfto wto, irtftt^fr | 

2. HOT f*WFteF PRfWF, VTTOT I 

3 . kfe, fyuriT uk eurm fugu ufr fFuuF i 

4. rfr° wto, ittto ht?°, >rf flRTft i 

5 . w urgw i 

0 . HlfUF TTTT^fTT, VTT 77 T fttftt I 

7. hotst, jft° *nfo ?fro 'fto, uf fa?^ i 

8. HOTW, UTTUTlft fFRR HTUkl, I 

huut hR jwmr ifuimT 

1. UgiMFF, WTFmUPft I 

2. gw gun ufaFifr i 


1671 


3 . gw Pwfar, Puff thr, gml i 

4. PkWF, tfttr koR i 

5. PkFF, Prarm stTf <jir awn: i 

6. ft^F, sfakT TUK i 

7. htr ^ rttutt wr ft Tfurgrr: i 

а. fuRiF, rr uk urf thr i 

9. HWfiT, *?tfR PKW FRT !TT £, gw£ I 
1 0 . fFW fUklF, Uf fa?ur I 
1 1 . f-fklF, FRITUR Uk RfR THR 1 
12. gW^UTUfHFkt (STurfRfUF) I 

ftrftr mn wk v»nft w>? *htt<t 

(f) ksTifrkTTnr ; 

WftlfFTW^ i 
(U) Ft’R'V fFTTTiT : 

1 . WSITW, qFTffeTFn: wh TT4TW sWTTftF TO^JT HTr*fRT I 

2. W?fk pT^TF, FiTJff faftT *fti, gTFf, wnTT, FPTJT; 
TTkFFFrTT 1 

3. TTTRT-TTpTT, FFF vrfffi^TIT'F fVjpTW ttPtPt I 
(it) kf&FrJTpriTPr: 

(TOTST, WFT-F7 «9fkf WpTFRT I 

<FT ITDTTTHT 

1 . pTtVTF, tpriTPC FTFfHTT, TlnTTR ?fR TrfiTTF'Jt TTflfil^- 
pw ifk FrfTftF wqr tt 'Hirw % ftro srmrfiTF 
JFSrfTT %'JT W59?r?ra I 

2 . aftTSRT PRtirrF ; 

( i) TtFirrT wk srftrwF upkitvrTWq' (^n srfsTsm 
Tk«rm 

Ff kRfl'Ft^WfT) 

(2) %7ffk FITFrf^^ 5Tfw«TF wk TTJTrm'F TTFSTTF, 
Fwrrr i 

( 3 ) fujPtf Trfirsm trtpt, irtit .i 

( 4 ) nM?, JrftTFF TTFtTH', IRlflT ( ^TTF fkm F WF) 
( 5 ) MbtW sqTsrfnrfJrF nftr«iTW ttwtit, ’f’m'h:, gtFf i 
(o) TTtfnr taTFTTTpTF aftrOT »rwm, fa^ff i 

3 . ^gtr ^ fewr (%ijfk) i 

4. IT?T Pr^!TF, FTRITiTr q^nTF Tf\r 4rk HTTT Ttwnr 1 

5. Wff, vw igrt, ftiw 1 

б. IT^T PkVTF, UN gwr, inTWTif I 
7- FTam HT7T FRT I ,J i ^TR^TlTj TT'H 1 1 1 

S. FFTFT TTTIJTR, FWF FT *nT FFTFT PrFtr, WFWnt I 

9 , *rwF utf -air win tptsf FT*riwtr TrsrfsrrF Ff fm 
FWF 1JR F?TFT wrgw Tfk.tlTfT I - 

1 0. WSF UR ‘STIT FFTFT TR5F FTTrirTF ?TtW TT%5T Ff 
FRTT FWF Itf FFTFT WT^W, sfhfR I 

11. Tfl^-WTWF UR 'JIT FFTTF TfiT3R FTTrWiT Hr IT TTJT 

FRTT ^rtw-TTTFTT UR FFTTW TTTTFH, HTIT 'j4JT I 

12. UR 'JIT FRTW TkRT FTTriFT Pf^TT tfh: 

ufftn arnku (psrur wkrr, ^fki) fF ttjr jt’Ii- 

*RTF UR FFTTU HTFR, fF^TT uYt UfkT I 

13. lft?[-5RTF UR HP F^TTU TR5F FlsriUT, iTSlf ff^ST 
®F*I UHR 4^7 HUFF UR FRTTU HiTjmj UKU 747T | 


HTFU FT TROTU :TJUtI 22, 1 978/STRTU 31 , 1 900 



1972 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 


14 . Rkr-RRW Rf 1 R RR RWR faRR HTprfflR, . RhTT, RRR 

Rk 4 fa, tWI nfr straw r^-rrw utr +wm rpjte, 
4 far, m Rk 4 fa i 

i 5 . Rk-RR?R utr »pt t^rtr farsR rfafarR, TRfer, 

^’T5ftT Hilq "ik-RRRT ijTR <r>?qjU| WHJW>, TAfiT | 

16. ii^-SW HPT HR Wm RR5A TrRfclR H^RT^, 

RHI'i?. qff RIRR FiVHRTT HPT TTRTR RT’J'fE, RfTPT"?' I 

17. fakTT kHRTR TTRfRR, ftWT «k faVTSTR RfT fak 

vrm, faTRjkfai-r tiThr'i «r'r <w r : — 

( 1 ) HTkfTT RR fr Wtf % fat! SRIRTfaT ^RlfR 
%rt, fwr, 7o/fawrrt-7 i 

(2) ^sff RTfkRiR % faprrfkfT % fant tpptt: rft# 

Hfarrk "FT TTRfTTR, RTRT #TR, RSRRkr I 

( 3) fafat ^4 Hffafkr m ■cptFpt , fafar spot, qrTWT 
rFj qftqfarRr thirtt ('Tfinnfl farm) 1 

( 4 ) RR-farfa TfaHTT Hftmfr tt ttrFtr, R^fa ff 
RrfaRf wk H^ffarr rr Rrftprf % Pfa kwH 
fOt rpt-r 4 r fan fki-PyTiH^'f (s’oijo) 

(Roifo) mm (ftPtorw) 1 

is. tf?FT-RPn, kkrrrkr Wm Rfafa 1 

is. fakir, v Tv rHiT <FmfaiT, ksffa rrrhta nk ErkspR 
ttwr, TfarnTT ?Trt, ^ht, rT fakft rf rw fDmrr 
Rk st^psth Rirr fakrm 1 

irkmrWaii'H'i 

HtfaRrlfaHTR 

1. fakir, fakir RifaRrl tptsa, rf fawt 1 

2. fakrr, famr fal, Rf farfa 1 

3. fakir, afar RpmT RRPT TP^tR RTJRT RWR TfaSR, 
Rk fa?<F 1 

4. fakir, AksTH, famR nk warnta srvrnr 1 

Vi 

Ri^fa «k jAikr farrm : 

(r) jRikfttfm 

1. rw jt*ttrt, wtttor 'TprtfamT 1 

2 . rjw km wk faiT wfamft (jRik) 1 

3 - fkrfa rrtijttt wk rtt $tht wfarkr, R'HntoR 

'rfkrkmr 1 ■ 

4 . : ^TW pTRTR WIRT! I 

5 . WWT firm <fa JRlk WTA<T, W*aRTA wk fkfarTT 

tfFr RR^, Rf4 S%RT I 

6. RUR RRlkPr, RTRT R^f, RTWTR RTRT RFTJT 

(R0R0) I 

7. ^RR rH^pf nfrli^ 4 , 344IR a 9 wk Li^i 1 vki^R 
(RftRT) I 

8 - ^RR ^Rfanw, W* krRTfRR Ulrfk 3 Rlk RlfURTTR, 

omj I 


(w) RTjFrfRRIR : 

1 . Ri{r ffarnr, r^Fi rrk rtrr i 

2 . jjrr 4rr Rk Rrt Rfainfr 1 

3. fakw, tpjPt klfirir 3 ?, ww 1 

8 kf r nk rFir^r rrirr 

1 . R^r fRkPP, Rk^R iJTRf 1 

2. R(TT f4kw, smiR 3 ? 1TR RRiTR RfR I 

3. RlRRTR rJrsR RTl^qrRRf % fakr^ 4k RR RRRRfr 

fRIW,IJtRf I 

4. RERR, RRRFnfk Rfkr?R RTRtR I 

5- mm, RrfRfkR rr41r Ftrir, Rik, tr-rri rt< 
RITR I 

6 . ijrr i^rffarr, rrtrtr, rstsOr rr4 i 

7. RRR tRftfRRR 1JR RRTRR iWk RTR Rffa^R kkllRR 1 

8 . rw liTftffarr: r m RurmT, famk rrr i 

9. ^RR iTffkRT R4 WIRT, RR ^RlT>PtR TRR I 

imm trk rttr rrtrr 
(T) WRkRPT: 

1. R?r fakir, ritrIr ij-krfaT rFutr i 

2. faRRTT, RTETfR RTTR J 3Tt, RPffa | 

(«T) IPTIRfaRTR: 

rVr nk utir fajparr, tr-tri i 

fa-urn rrk srWrfarl fam’i 

1. Rip RraftR r^ktr, 4^tjr i 

2 . fakrr, rtriOr RTfa-fajiiR Rikw, Rrmrr i 

3. IRkrr, RTRTfa RRRTfa kSTR I 

- 1 . fakrT, 4RRR ifaRR falTR, TRTRT I 

R4RR flk RTRT faRTRR 

1. Rirr fakir, r4rr i 

2. RfT fkRT, RTRR faRTRR I 

3- R§T fa?RT, ^WIRTR I 

- 1 . far RRlffT RaRRR* 1 

j. sm vr^TB, Tr gRwr, rRTRT i 

6 . RK rhjr;, kr grarr, ksflR rIw, R«rf i 

7 . tm Rr^k, kr RRarr, RRr-yk r!%r, riturt: i 

8 . RK RrRRT, kr RTRT, RfWk Rf%R, Rnrt I 

9. RTT RrjTB, RR ^CRT, JR? Rf%R, rfTrrTT I 

io. rrc ri^w, tr ^krr, rrtt Rfam, rhr 3 ; i 

i i. rrt Rf^jw, 7 r g-rwr, ifw4r Rkw, amk i 

faRkr Rk RrRIR R3TRR 

1 . RR3i TirfRur, fafa wtr farm faRFi i 

2 . IJIR falRT I 

3. RUR RTRfft PlW I 

4. RnRR fRRRR I 

fi. RIRITfa'kTT I 

8. faRRT, CR^fa fankr RR5R I 

7. RtRST, RJR eOt RpflR RfaRT RR5R I - 

8 . Wr^TIT, R1T ?RTFJR rk RTRTTkflR IRlfaRk RR5R I 



[ (*nr II — a(ii)] 


qRcf *FT TT^rTST : pTlt 22, 19'78/WTOl* 31, 1900 


2 

pint pf * pm iff ftftqqt 

(%fp fqqq l a) 

fPm : pr 4 f WTifferq qqf % pm % ftp qafRP snftpeTftqf 
aft irftpr i«nr wftqf sttt fqfpfqq q?r hri $ i 


nTftrqrrff 


qqf % qq "sfr f<r p: fp 

5fT qpf $ 


.a 

qwf pi * pm qftimt 

(^fpfqqq i :i) 

fpq : qqqnfr PifflR qqf % pR q fp WJfqp 
qTfwrftqf ifr wffprr <jw wfttiff gnr ftrfpfqq w amft $ i 


snfiPKf 


qqf qrr, sfr far ijfsm Pp p wqfii ftrctfr 
qrqqRt, qtf q*ft ^R fp p ijftra 
qrf p qiqr ftrq pr fp qr «P i£ 
P&qf p qpr tff ^t 
BRRfr $ 


^tffq KTTrft fVqrq: 

(i) pfppftq p 4 tfft pijipfi pit V iftq % p : 

qppmrq fqqtq (q) qftrqraq p aft w 

qftp qf qfy % asp 

% q iff, sflr 

( iq ) fVfvR qcHq I *1 qiif %RT 
p sff qfpqq Poor 

1.000 6 o srfct ITFT if 
qqftpfr ; 

(it) pf V, V «rk V 

%TT % P 1 

(ii) sir form qp V ifamr^ftrfp 4 p 

qpt :>,7 50 1)0 qfqqTq 
% PT <nn qn? p qi 

3.000 Po (qft f^HT p 

1931 t ^ $ ^cR- 

m arnrr iff tff 3,000 
Po) I 

fi'-M"! ftmf p wfr 

pft Pr ^qqqp qq Pi, 
TfT p srfqfc % pfarq 
$ ftTT qfPRq PIT qfR- 
ITPT P TrR qRI 3 TRT 
pfp 1 

pit V, V V fftnqf 

^p 1 

St II I W : 

( 1 ) ftpft, airo ifhc qqr pit V, V xfir 'n' ffr mf' 

pKf, y>Tfp, % q? | 

( 2) qR srwmr (pwtq % ps V , V qf? 'q' pinff 

jpmw^'fqqw) 1 1 

(3) tow, WttfPr, jorpa' p|T V fiqiqf ^ qq 

PrqrirmqsT p? %’ qfT 'q' ^nqf % 

qq 1 


folftiT apppitf frqFT : 

( 1 ) yrxTir qrnf faqR p? V fRmf ^ vt ■ 
tfR wprqffr (<v) nfaRTiw tc afr 
qyqra-iT yqTq qTi: nlRq 

TftB IT 3 ?R % 

(n) f¥ra ymrpr qfff Prfyw- 
qrq qq aft qarfk I 
qfqqrnn 1,600 
wfarorofr wrfOT 
?rf; %fn. p^ V, 

V qfT 'q’ ipyr 
% qq 1 

( 2) «rt y«rrq pjj V ftwf ftf^rr «pff fq fo lqR 

^qqTTR^r ?,7 50 wo wqftr 1 

srffmrq fr <rt ^ir 

qp qq ht (qfo 

i(p qq i 93 i ft 

fft qr ^qqqiq qTITT 

Iff qf) 3,00 qo 

fpp : pt fpff qq 
qff pf qrTar qqq- 
oiq qq pt tr 
qfqfq % qqpq ip 
ftp tfftmnr pip 
^ ci *16 10 qff qarq 
rrt wrt pft;q 1 

fqqrq sft ftcfy siwT |it$ fqfqftR 
^ qqf qft wrpr, flqftr 1 

pit y, qp y 

wft p? y %qnff 
qiqq 1 

spipf : 

( 1 ) PRWd qp, qp V Pit ^ p ftqff aft firfq- 
ffRsff, qfTr, qqq fqq'frr nftrqqrq pq- Ptr trqftr % 

qfr for, fqqfrq, qiq 2,000 qo sfq- fftq 1 

qftqtft^qf qiq pq q pfp 

^f qfq ftrqqqfqijftfs 
qTffRTft sqqrw iff 

qqq V, y tfft; V fpff iff ftrfq. 

*proff fcqq fw *wfq % 

ftp 1 



1974 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUL\ ,22, 1778/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part IT- Sec. 3(iig 


mpf ‘a - ’, 'tt' *f 
dmdf% t TT 


'«r' 


(2) m’tf'.mf.lftrmrrr WJ7T 'l *i ■" + STtmV 4 W: 

ada am ? f5T,- an 4 mfnar 

faWt vf|- tRftr 
% fan fafap 
nrn mar 
dmftfa «ftr 
mfaanpifvf 
arfa [faff i 
faaff *fr fafa- 
fma mrftr % 
faif i 

fadr *fr fadr- 
ftm mafa ^r 
faq i 

Prti: 4r fadr- 
fan | 

fadr 4 V fafc- 
firm wrftr % 
fan i 

CTsdarqir — w wnydf if, “<rtf faPtffdr wafs" i, affvtfa 


(3) WmTPT *fk fmpf- 

(4) msitfta 


(s) fa*rmT«rer 


*W$ fa’, ‘if’ 

RJJff V fanfaf % <T? 

'**’ mj? V 

WT % TT 

mnr fa’, mTff V *flT 

ary? V farrm % <k 


4 - 


(v) cr«T am if m?t mjydf $ taw 1 if ftftfacj wifi,* t 

aft tjfn % aerm 2 if fafdfW mwnt 

w % wm afr arfa; ff ^rr na ^«mpl d apra 

afar ?pf irrP?R mff t, 2 anf arftw mrfd; wk 

(w) f%*fr WT nmd if, aitf arfan Ernfa 1 


WWfflft 4 

fafaitn tfk yrtWmtn aft arfatmf 

(dfatrfmrtr 13) 

3 1 fy T‘i fi wfa> aft *n q 1 



farfmftR 


%^jhTT ^ 1 <, 

Praa 10 % atffa Tiff 

Praa 10 % wtfra tr^ 

%Prara 

ja jff wffaaf 

ya ?rr arfqwf 

awraat 

Praar 10 % mfta aftif 

faaa 1 0 arErra 


?a ^Ff arfattat 

ja ^rfraaf 

famaTEaw 

Praa 1 0 at ?rtfra -qr^ 

faa 1 0 % artffa 


5a ^ arfaaaf 

ja a^f ’rfwaf 


5 

marfarw wromum and ad arfamrf 

(iffjTT ffam 13) 

ffmr: faw i 3 % mr-frm (3) * sfarfaf tfk faftr aft 
wtiraT ^ mffn qrd dfa qd mr”ff % mm 1 if fardrfdn!: 
infra wqw d Pram, amnat dk PrrnnTWsd aft marfararm 
*m wrs afar % Prmr if, tit mrdf d mm 2 ad a wma) 
irfafrr if fcftffsr arfamt fjfift : 


m , % gm«RT % im-n 2 if farPrf®?®! f"p<fr 
Fwr afr arm (i) ar^f ?rr mmff r-riFtt ’tt arr t, 
a'qTiajRpT jrfaaTmr ’ffr (ii) atff frar 'nrarTT wlT arTrarrff 
WTTfriTT'iT kit air t, fajrr-'rrKTtff art 

3 if amrmtfr stfarfe if fafafa'? Tffrffm aat afa tiffr irt 


aftffrar m ratra if 
arm aif tttfaa tftaf 1 

fafafTO- af gr, 

m ifm am ww 


aimff 


aTftjaafr 

arfaa aa rman: 

maaf 

(Tanmf 

araffa a?:arR fama 
(i) aain^afa 
afaaiaa 

am if 2000 a° %ft vrftift 

STfamf 

(ii) ma fa'ara 

jff arra.aaf 

^d arfaaal 

(iii) aarraar 

yd vrfaaaf 

^d arf^raf 

(iv) fwrareaw 

sraaar am if 2oooao maaramif 10,000 
afra 4 ao trraaa 

^asfa aqprr ^ famaf 
if aar aftrft if fam 
arrafairrsaar 1 

stmaramif iooa» 

afa mar 

aeaaram if soo a° 

%atfa ai;atK ^ faaraf 

if aaafaarEaaff % 
¥T if affaa we 
afaa 1 

aair^amif iooao 

a? 4 a:amif sooao 

TTE^fare'a : %affa warn: % famaf af'r 

arTidHra arftaaf 


an 5m>r TT^rff i am if irfimlTT i^fmf mff a?Ti fia: 
arrtfRT 1 ffcft afrfmt afagia i 77 i wtfra ^rt atm 

% Erf sttFet^tt wfirprfmf jitt stmirpT afr arraiff 1 

ttpj awn: % Prmaf % arai: aNa, f^t W ^ 
firm u % *rata atnTfmrrwsff i m if afrm farm w 
amjafa i ara if tfriarffar a^rfmf titt tier fiar m^aa 
mrnrf if OTifira famn aat amPm ma aiR m: a^a 1 


^‘TT^^T 

^ r ;y Eqa aff m aa # aPerffm faaa, m^w, FrFma m ara 
m faa aa? ma ffra^ atffa a^ JT *m 

^(pn amra farar arr . fatar araar 

aaraf | 


1- arffater ^ffarf^aat a^ft^iat, nraff »ffa ®m 

% arma if ar aa% iro 
air at ar afaar at aara 
wf^nma faarr mrpr r 



.1 


qpTlI. — T<rr 3(ii )] 


qrrq qrr qnm : rrarf 22 , 197 s/armar 3 1 , 1900 


1975 


1 


2 


4 


1 


3 


4 


pH qqq f #1 sqq ft 

ft? qf qnftq ftqrf 
k? ft qqrtf qft | qpprq 
«nrft qr qq-uqft qrr 
qqrftrq qqiq qqirr 
qrqqr 1 

3 . qqrft qftr — 1 (qr) wrftrq tnfqjqftr 

ft 11 ftlT 

qP £*ft qT tRT 
qqrft qri ft qFrrjfq 

S‘T qnrqfer qqqrrft 
iftqr jfrT, ft qqft 
qqqrqq q h fftftft z? 
%■ qft Jr fwl m q^r 

qqrft Jr ftft^q % fftr 

qrqr qrqqr % qqft; 
wrar -fT? jt~iw h*? 
5>fr wk 3Rft? ftf 
qrar qqT trprir 
q?l ftqT, fftqfftftr 

qqf % qsqefrq ft qr 
q%ft ; — 

( i ) irrqftq qftuq qt; qftr 
ftrqr qqr *qrq qnjifq 
qrqrrft qqq %■ qrrqft-q 
ftf qrq jnr 
1 . 6 ftrqrqter Jr >f?q 

^ t- 

(ii) qft qq? Jr qF«qr 

qrfwft U qrqftq 
'Frftq 9T fftft fqfftq 
rqrq % ftn?; qqqq 
fftr ftfftr 
qft qqr qrqq sft kft 
qr *pq qqrft fq<TOT 
ftft qrfl'T | 

(iii) fqqqq? qiftjqr 

qqrfftr qrkr.fV fst 1 ?? 
vrx qnjfq qnrqfqq 
qqqrrft Jfqqr rnj qfi 
’if qrar % fftr qqqnj 
qff ft qr qft 1 

frqq : ftqrqrsqw rrr^qq 
ftftr w? % qsqqft 
5wr qr qqrft 
qqTft ft qqft srftpjf-r 
ftr q^ft f qfq I 


2. 'qqiq f qqq 
% ftnr sqiq 


(rj) wrrqqfftr mfftrft % 
fftr : qqrft qTf ft 
qft jfq ftrqr ft trrrsr- 
qfftr qrfaqr: ft ftf 
qr qftfr fftr (i) 
<qqq qrrqfaq Jr fs 
qq % qqrq Jr 
qrf =q qr qftFqq ftrqr 
qrrr qft q^jqq 
qwrfr qrqr % 
ftrcr qrtrTqq fqqqf ^ 
qfrq qrar 9ft 
3?r fqrarrr q|f |, srqqr 

(ii) qrqqftq qrfftqK ^ 
ftnrft ffftq 5 TTT qf<>q 
%qrqn:qqqq% 
qrrqlqq 9r f qrqr qrqr 

t 1 

2 . qkf 9? flTrq qq ftq 
9r qftq wqrqrq f 
fkrqqrqriffqrftiT :- 

q’pfqq kr 1 ft 
qnsnrquTfff^ w«qftq, 
?qra qr?qftq? £fft 
qft qr W?q qqrFl qft 
ft qftjft (qq^r 
% ftrq qijqrq tPqq? 
qq ft qqrq qq qft- 
ftfqq) ftf qt % 
qqqrrft rTqq ft ft qr 
qftff, qqft? ^ W» 

ft® 7-i(q) % qftq 

qq^r qfqrft rjsqrqq 
qmS nrft qr^T qqrq IT 
ftrqr qrqrifqp qrq^q 
qq qTqr ^ : 

qqrg qq qwrftf 
Jr *Ft# i?ft qftjfa 
q^#q q^f ftfr fqqJr 
w a fq 0 73 k qftq 
qrqrrft Jrq^r qqqrft 
jjqqrqqf qq qq ftq 
% qqq ftqqrq qqpqrq 
^ q?qiq ^q qr q?q ft 
q^ qft qq ffftr qqT 
Irq % ftre; w^qrq | 1 

3 . qTqrftqqr ft'ffTq'rq 
qqftq % fqrr : qrer- 


3R3GI/78— ^ 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 Part II— Sec. 3(ii)l 

3 4 1 2 3 4 


faXTXtx UTXtX 

% fair XXlft XT# qx 

qft srr x%xt XTKTtT; 
^rx f't qjxr qrr^f xni- 
xtxtx sfft xqr txtx Jr 

^XTX XT 'M'-nfVq 

fqxrr 'Jipn £ xx^ 
fXTT VTITT HXT? flXT 
mt $ i fqxg; tq# 
xwrqwq Pimt Jr 
$t xif tt *ft orr 

X#Xrt i 

4. xftrfxxf X> fJnr 
xftxax gOwixf qx 

^ r TT q,V.X % P 'l n : 
7 1 tt xft Prat t dXMOi 
#r Utit tftxxi qrr? xt 
xt arr tt#xt 1 xrsrfV 
rm: qxT xtamft qft 
'jft qrrt % f%rtT qqfa 
x^t f xt tjtx; qx? 
xtt^ gifTci Jf xsf ^ i 

s. xrqiTfq^/xxqTfoftx 
xrirxxf % fJnt '• fl"T- 
xA^jftrr / xx.TfsJtx 
xiJrqrxr ^ xxx Jr 
Frcrxt inf xt qfr xrr 
q-Jfifr xxfo tctt: qxT 
xtsrmt qft ^fx xmt 
% fax' Txfeq qjjf ff i 
qxtfqr IJJr xxxff xt 
xt xxjftx sruft 
qxrnxitr xt xtxt*x 
& wfar qrxt 3 xr 
xxxr im ft at $T 
tjq> xtrA Jf '?rr% 
qjwp xt qri’rifqq> 
OrrrxTrr^qx^XTrxrf 
Jr #xatx qr<qnx % 
frrfl PrxTxaTrrqrftm 
Tnmxq xfoxT tp?x 
qnfq Orf^x f*pr xrr 
xqxf ftrx% fV xtt qx 
qft xf xtfsxf qrr xfax 
xx’xtx gOrftxq ft 
x% i fjxt axxTXT 
fXxTTT«XST JTXT xt, 

xmft *f xqxfJrx xtIxt 
?ftxT xt, xx xxx qfr 
Xr x%xt, xx xtitmt 
qft gxr qxqt $ fax 
tfiTi art qxfxr x ft i 


xT*rnxr ferna : 

(i) fxxr ttttO Jrxr qft, 
xts xf ttjtxItjt ft xt 
TTTTT fxx 3 xtt xtt i 
Jf xferftjx xmrr qx 
xfx^rfo fqqT xt ^q*fr 
xri xr flxq qxnt 
inf xt f*q xqxr ftxfr 
xt qqr xrrcr Jr 50 5» 
Jr wftrqr xft ftqt i 

(ii) fVrft’frfrxrarqtxnrx 
^qrfr xr tRr xxrft 
itixt xjt srf?r^fJr xft 
fqxrr xrq f rr xx 
srxr^rRqx xxxrO 

qft xx qx^q qrax ^ 
sprf', ftra% Prq xrxr 
qft wrqtxqxrT qf) 
qf^Txqr ®jft x^sttx qt 
xf | xt ff qft^ xxt 
ft wrq qTfJ'xfxqr xtx 
qx fqrqrx ^ i fqrx 
qft qrft ffJr xx+r(t 
Jtqqi qft xx^r fxxrn 
Jr qrftqxrr Jr qxx qxJr 
% ftrq; jx: qrrar 

xft x*rrx srrftrqxJV 
xJr x^rx qrRrqxH qm 
^qrffrPrqxxxrxtxxTX 
qftqrxjtrxqxxqTqrl i 

(iii) xxtfqx fafaftqx Xf 
jnwf tf ^qrft xt qrxT 
xxrtt xt# qft xffffftt 
sxxx xxrft qr ftro; 
x^fAx xxixt xrx 
% x^j^x qff qrrxt 

xrf^x i 

(vi) xnrqfxx xxqxxt Jtqqr 
qftfqxt xTx^xxxTxt 
xxr qft jrftrjfx qft 
wrt XX qft vrftx 
xixx xxqrrx % xxrxxt/ 
OrxTxt xtx fXxTxr- 
Bireft xtx qxxtxx 
xarxt X xt fxr?x 
tftxt i 

(V) xfXjffX xtix xxrJt 

•XTTT XX, fx, P-rTxtX 
pi xr xx% xxtxx qx 
xx xm ftxr xft qtrr 
fqxr xrrX qrsr qxrx 
xxrftxfX, tx xtq? 
xqrfJxt X X fWt 
am xr xx% xxtxx 



faTR T[- 


1 


-raw 3 (ii )] 


vrrtcf TT TRTff : aatf 2 2, L 9 78/3fFTT$ 3 1 , 1900 


1977 


2 


1 


2 


3 


4 


tto ros if i afa 
iff TTr^f TT arti Hm 
amir mi tt wr mif 
| if HT? $ muff arf 
srfa-gffr, mmrfJm 
mfam. aft ? 9 TT Jr 
famaremtr % aara 
iff 1T9 FT^RT OR art m 
aimf far ifar irm ar 
firif *f m arpf aft 
mmaaaamr % arrpa 
~a wrfirrn: * fmr gif 
amir mi 71; #af 
manaar «rr i ama- 

'rfmr ararTfr irma aft 
mmr gar afagfa 
anafamSW ittt m 
irf#fa WR % famf 

f^r*TTT STTT rJm arTP 
% Pro 5 rrfti£ifl fV". 
ag far# vfi- srrfETTrtr 
ITTT aft m a%iff I 

(iv) aftfimf arcarrifirmfr 
*pt 9 artf mi ark 6 
ai Mid 1 - i" aim mkr 
t? «prm mg m 
amilm-t Jf 9 ari mi 
% >n^ itarr mty 
ark "fir 9 mi mi 
ark e art arm % ifa 
aa rfkm ir at aa 
aa^a % anjrif m«nr 
?ps a if, air £aaf 
% m m '-4 aarra ^r 
mf aft afft- 
gfft aft m air if, qmg 

4?5 ‘ f 4 'S43rf^FT d Jr 

arrakra if mftrm k 
mn a^f $ f*rg 
afti mfkrfmtr a fmtm 
if sk mr% hi-m 1 aft 4 
aram aa^a a $r m 
m[ ara-f amjur m 
mm>r akt if mrmf 
if afk aft rrjr ftf § 
fir ■r.imifaa ar i fkK 
aft mm ft fJrmrnBTOT 
aa ftk armaaffta 
rrcatrff if am 
if amrkra i ama aa 
w am? vr rwro 
if fV mr anfwr; if 
9 mi mft tr aamg 
^mm/ikT mm ftk 


4- fm^r, kr ifp git wPRmf 
mamma i 

s. -jam*. ftk gif arfftmrt 

'P'lPaT apT 

ftkamma i 


6- t ndj mm sfk 
tikr j smr 

V^'ti 5TVTT < ; 

(i) mg toi gif nrf irn t 


(ii) tikr /tmr- gif arPrmif 

r^PF amr: 


7, wrfmr 'mfWr gff Tiftmrt 
fij^ff % 'Wf, 
iterf, *p'i -Cl , 
arfsaf sfk 
isfipr'frm 


ifm % %r Jf m i 


w arfor tt aik ^tff mff 
sfk rnif i Trsmfk ifm 
■?fr fmrH, wraw ak: 
gin HAIM a KKI Pliffd IV a I 

^rnr i 


Fdfif m fmrm arga imr 
mam aimrmi if frmr 
WT3ff if if fim mm 
mfijn* i ag gfaftmr 
amir % fmy ftr w aii 
m nPda.au i ^ ^r irarfa 
(K4K % famaf if fmr 
Hiffma arfsHFiffaf , fmrJr 
famarsaw *ff afiafmr 
t, ami agr fmr aa 
250 ao Jr arfear if 

kir fama a^r % a*ff 
mamf aff mafiiar Poffi 
aa% hkt mr# mm 
mmakar srrfkmTit mt #sff 
mif mf^ i taara 
a?a fan; agif %affa 
tor % famaf amr 
maf fam am^aaif % 
arraif & if if mif 

m% i 

250 Jf afrnrr ir sr?kf 
arai aPr frafi frma 
ammr/fama aff 3mff 
m% i 

mf Ffraf if S.% ir afaa 
%affa pfar Praia 
fwa amf amm i, famf 
amrfmf m faam Jf aa- 
afa % firg mffnm (ifar 
ir iaff Jr fmr farnff % 
'faff) akiteif irmara 
% %q; aif faara 3m- 
aaff i sjk ^rff ■ifif ipf 
ak rt mf arfaa ar 
airaatffma mftrarfPra’f 
5ra armr mr awrif if 
farm m nirm aafar 
ksfa ik kata lama 
d-P mtm mama ami 
if mrai if i 



1978 


1 2 


8. <jfft 


(«) 9ftf JrifTRW H7T 
tpR qn: ^r*TT, h 
TR 9Mfft -3TT9ft qft-Hfl 

fftftt RR Sr TrftofSpr 
i?r nf ft sfk RR m 
gqr sipi 5T?rm; qft 
ftwt qft rnfftr % strt 
ft i iRr*pRT*rrftR 
fttqr fRR Jrrftmfpff 
% W srtrr n ft , PT 0 r % 
iTBqtfR fRr fft 'jf»T 
•A Rtanq ®ftr ftqnr 

*r> MWIMtT TPTtT 
JrfftTJjftl ^ i 

(q) 'srgt ftqfR rar ft 
fftftt fft«nq qft ijfft 
wR ft fftq *j wr qqc 
rjtr fftq *rq t to 
ftorR tor nrn 
qrm 9 ttt ffttotor 
Rff fto ?[ Tft wm: 
% wftR ft fftq w 
ftomr jrcr Ttoftor 
’jftr ftor torm rrnr 
w sRtsRTO srjtoftor 
4 M q w~t ft r *ii 4 i qqft 
BTTJ ftjffR tor Pin r j i 
ftorR %■ wRR 
WTftqr'f & jr toft- 
ftrftor qrR % wcr 
qft mr Trftto 

fft: — 

(i) w sRRq ft fftq 
fttoq ttwr qft fttf 
toft wspst qto ^; 


[Part 11— Sec. 3(ii)] 


(ii) wft fftq fttq TW 
^Iri^KT | : 

T 775 3 RT ijR 
wrftR Tnirar mfft- 
91 I Wf ft HI&48 ft 
to V T qft qrftl f, 9ft 
ftqfR ton ffttow 
fftqR Sr %jf*r ilt 
qrRr % qfftrqqr gtft 
99 JlWm toftSTTO 
9rT7TT 9tT9W9> *T^t ^Rr I 

qrmT'nra'Tr *qq fftfft ftTR<r 
«r?t <jft q»toft Sr writ 
fton srrqJTT, ftoTR, 

(qr) w nrwf Jr far Sr 
9 it 97 tt, Hstirr 
W9 ■ J J 1 4 IT'-I Jr fftftt 

urtot % fftq soo 9 ° 
ftR fftftt rpr 3«r Rt 
STHTT ft fftftt JTrjR ft 
%q 400 *0 ftR fftftt 
JTR RPUrPT Jt fftftt 
qraft % [fSrftfto 1 009 ft 
5 R wr Rr 4 f(TT ft 1 

(w) w RtrsHTPff 9ft 

9ftnff % tR JrftrR 
qr*r 9rr99»^TT sftr ^ 1 
WT RTUraftt ft "PTT- 
jp«r «pRr ft fftq fftftr 

JprrrR ji m w-R’iifti 
ftrrr ft ^ 3R T9> fft 
fttftf 9 ft ftqjftt jtpw 
*R^ftt ft wftR 9T^R 
fttftf Sr prftnp fftfR 

fttftt 9T 9T9I JT fftHT 
qqr ft 1 ] 

(q) fSrfftq fl'fftqr ftflfrr, 

1908 ( 1908 9JT 5) 
9ft 5PPT W^ftt ft 

i t j. 27 ft fftirq s-qr 
ft 9P>» (nr) ft WtfR 
fftftr ftrrTT ft qi<i 
W97R ffTTT ftR9T 
9 <9irft ifttrSf JTT TTW 

fftftr wfwSt 9ft fttftf 
ft snft ft, Tft R iq 
ftrft, wr Jnww qr 
tor wfk qr itohr 
snjrr fftftt fftfft am 
fwr fttftt ft jtr ft 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 


qftt qqrTftt ft, tom wft 
to fttft Rtor ttwiR 
wftR ft fftq RrfftT 
*(fft 9>r qtor, fftftto sto: 

WT9TJ9 ftSTPR 9ft jft 
Tmtoft ft jtt ftft *ntoft 
ft i *. ftt qf ftn^rq 
Trqq-mTq 99: (ft+ift, fftqr 
onq : — 

(qr) 'TftTqfttr : nqTfft J TTW 

ftqprq JTT ftqTT ftoTR 

wft fftftTq ft Prfttq 
ftqftt ft fftq srftftor 
ijlft am trtor qrr: 
qftqr i 


fi. Wftqrtorn:: 

(l) ftftosSf, qrsr- , jft 9rfftT9t 
qmftt, fttRpt, 
jTsqpftf sto: 
fff ftfip jrf JWft 9ft, 

&a , 



[•Tin H - -w a(ii)] nrerirrTHrr;r:^nt 22, 1 9 7 s/arnTr^ 31, iooo 1979 

1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 



q*J^T £ TT ^ 

ftrftr ^Fjrr^pr jttt rnr 
m sr^rsTf^T -Ji kO 

TT^t It, TO 

( 'd’l qfu<wTm 

10. ift^T irrfsfiri : — 

ir TP^n ^ir rtmff iff, 
Pm rtf Tiirt ®tit % ift 

if ttwt Tm^iiT 1 

irrtf ^ in ^ srgw 


qftrff Bf 7 JTT^ if f^R% 

(1) ^T 

iff ^rrtt nrtf irfiFf ir 

(2) nw Prftrar (n) fafa irc ‘ 

HTR" ^ <1 •f* rn [ 3 ffa 

WrUM'flf if fWI 
fwt-ft# WWIHHf 
% Pi '1 fafST 1^1 ^ 

STTT 'til tf^tT fl 1 pi t'T 
# ^ 3R WP fr iff^f iff 
rtjjrtr snw n^ff %■ 
mifriT TT^fiT ifaff if 
wftpp WN rtfrtf nr 
iwt t Piwt irt $f 1 

fafsr irri % nfnwrtm m 


fqrr mf^rt % ( f*R% 

ifox-zte 3 rk 
%) m ^ ^trr 4, 

# v£r$ 

dH , M T "^r fV'^i wi (£ ^fVr 
to: yr m tt f*m 
Tf^T^nr STTT J A n 

f*P^TT WT ^'T'l 7TT, 

Wfir TTmn: ^ Prow 
wVr stitwit fifir ifif 
Wr iff TTfff t ir^rtt 

snrrr ^rr wfiwrim % 

tjf+vn •jiH % %*? 


fo r < 3 ) wPppff ^T U -M \'*i 

Hi'f'l' — 

irfi?wf ^wfPr Tram 


HW »frW ^ pTftwf 

^*r sr r r^i i r<-M~v 

PnTFff W J!TO 5 WTT 


^fWpft 7 ! 5 TTT 

iff unif fff 

fefr fiffsr, f-wif? m 


f^TT ^T 1 1 | qnr Tjvft 

vt[*mh 1 Pjr 

wrtiff % niffr itt PrPm 


H 1 H i PTrT +/i^ IrttM ’fit 

srrainwfWnR 
tffrtR mif iff 
*r^ £f iff 

srrfsnw fcrtf trw, rnfm- 
tw snfsmfr Prf^r $ 1 


'i^MTfd UTTOT iffiff : 
irw; ftww imriTir 

irf>Rfir%r 
imwT fr wr 
WT# 2,50010 

(nr) ttwit 

1 

*TTKmTT]; % fair ft^r 


tPt ttw (Swr % smronff 
<pf, mr ^ irwtlfiT tfff 
JTI[ tWT fl'Jifi. ^ q"s^wfw 
1 W?T ^f afk it? fr iffttirf 
?wt wwiff % Pw «rtW 

inftmforf 

V.i^nfn % TPT ^ sftT! 


irf mff iff Putt Pwff «ff 

iff w 3 iff 

TfpTHR % *r ^3 77 ( 2 ) 


TWIT iffwiff sfk WWTSff 

viPml far if 

% qtfrr %" 


iff TTUTT if wPwr I" ?fr 

TTTOTFTI^pTI 

ftirr rr»rf?r wTPsTrtf jm 


mrr vtfir nr wru fa^f 

♦w* f»i^«i v\ 

ITT T^TTIR SPTT fluff fiffij, 


iff uPtw urtf % itPritT' 

VTwn*fd*if HI^T 

Pwff ITT flfflff WEffl 


■W if IT iff, 3 TT fwpr a 

t? sr^pqr ?r^ 

itt f^rpTTT - inflow fiwf 


iff ir Pp fiw ttir 

i»rr t 5,000 io 

1 TTW WTfwr JTTT flWT 


*Fri[ f< 5 i Hfi'ic ^^TTPTT 'T 

( 3) FTTTft imf 

tut jr 1 

Tfrff wfwirf tt Tirffir ^r 


iff ipff nfr, jffwrff ITT 
TTSwf % jwW ir ftnr 
($w?t to ^ infr 5$) 

JTITTirTifirm- 

wr 4 «r'f % wwjftir %ut 


iffm urtf iff nrtPr*rt][t 


urnpn finf 41^4 Pd Tr*nr- 


iff ufii iffiff 1 

^^iPf tt*t 

■H i-h <fTl if NjH«m 

TnnT TT 1 3rrfT V? 1 
ft^rw :— iff Wwf 

( 2 ) TTJTIT’iT, 'TfrwfWTT 

Prf^F wft ^ 

ITT TTOTWTTT Trftr+ <uf| 



uplift 1 

^rt ^fc.(i 

^ *terr ffc 

11. iruTTTTfiniT 'rtf TTfarnri 

m Pwrff % qftflnm 


STfTK jf f«P7J # 

affr in: i 

if irwfiw mwf it 


W^ff 6, % ^T4Ftff % 
q^f f^ir 

'J|"Ft ^ m ‘ f J 4 *rf| A <HHf M 

^1 1 1 ^ftv f^rW 


irttttPrt rtfr irtf 

% irtw % Pnr Pwiff % 
vj^ti mnw fwiwnrr 1 



1980 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 Part II— Sec. 3(iiYl 


1 2 3 

4 

12- TT TPtfwVP *> :, P. P5T1 :'f 

srHcrifr sir ttEt prprf ttt 

WT^ — 5,000 pc 

TTOTPsrfTrflTfkrr 1003 

( 1 ) TT, TTT W>P 

$ frTT 137, 141 pflp 

PTPPTPt PTTfiTR% 

14 2 ^ 

tpoI pfr fTPTT 

TPST?fr|T% PTR- 
TcT rr^f riTTf t 

paRwrrr frfPT 

TTRr, RPT SRR 
>pptt trip fr^rr 
srfT'sm r Tr % 

TTrr&Tfawnrf 

Tf TPrrt 1 

'TPT'T f%^TT 'jfl Q, J I 1 1 


(2) uptri tttT 'JPT ttPkttI 

wt rrrsrm tp^tt 

( 3 ) r *TV5 , TTFT^ T T^ 'M '1 n < iT 5000 pc ttRT *PTPT T^fl '3H4T 

?flr ?rr^T?r *T"Rf Tfr tt *ffp Eptt ^rr t%tt w *j- 
H 7 f (Ot w F rof 1 0 0 0 p o Error t trip tt 

uTTTfciTT 1 TfriTt t t^ptp tR fcrr ft 

TTT SR TTR ERTtfaPf 

Hor rrnroT rrt tpptp 

tp vfy *T iFe ij>ir IV pf 
■JR ^TT T“ TTlf T^ 
fapfi' tft ^sr itt rriRift 
T?t f f t I IT I kll 0 PTPTiTP 
% fatqnff it ^tp ( 1) 
nk ( 3 ) TP «TT, Efr% 
^JTPfPRT ITT TfkllTTPU 
!TTr, TTTT TP% TftTTf«Rr 

fEft I 

13. JTTflTpmr 
trtp — 

( 1 ) tpt, mr wfa gtr srf«RTTT ( 1 ) t ^ 

WlPlsfkr% Twt tOp SFT ^“I'sff 

T rar arTftprr ^ farr 
fk^T TTTTfkr fkki 
i Pro; Ttf trip frpft 
vft TTTPrrr fkr o t |1 
PrT^riTT 1 

f^qaf :— - ( 1 ) rrPTtP ^WPt 
tP tjpTi, kR, wrpt 
^ppf-PRTPr ^ftr 

Wf*TTRrf wk wr 
fkrrn i wk if ut% 
Sipr fw qfr ttJt'p 
pkl £ t fr 'mprrpEr 
sk TErPro; pf nk 
eR TP TjfT ^rfr TTTTifr I 

( 2) ^ f¥pft TPPTTT TT 
Tt ufRrkr % tfW 
firvrrfTO fkrc tirt |pft 


prF%PP ftTPT TT STREP 
Rift TEJTTT T iwfTR 
fTTT TtnriTT I 

( 2 ) pip rrtT Tptt Tfrrr 
Rpf % fi-rir pipit o 
pRt pctpt rrEr^flrT Tff 
fart ^rrpT ^ ppar TTP 
ptttt 'tret #*srr TaPr, 

PTT TTPT dilPP fkTT 
ttctt prfpir faET%TrTrnp 
mpf k mr tript tt 
^T-rkrr f*P^ f>m pp 
fqpn Tr swt | iftp 
^srr Tt, mr wk ^r- 
^Rst'ppfR mp=prqprfr 
atrr f^or ^tpttPrt 
fqrrt amt pflP 
EmP-TrT Pfrft % TTETR 
!r r?rrr ^rnr, pprptrrr 
f+'Tl HT El Tin 1 ^ 1 tIe 
P ppfr T>K“mnr, "nwr 

^«Tt TSfit” =TT PTTVf w 
rjsraT ^rr ttpttt wt 
htt P*rnfr wf<rcRT ?r 
wrrr Pptt ttiot ^rrf^^ 
Pr% f*p wtitI'-t srfwr 
% pt^pttt srPr^d ftrsrr 
kpj.tt 1 

fpETT : — Pt^iV PTHT ^TP 

*fVp wwpfsfrT ttp, Pit 

TP ^TTkTT BT^PpT ?>, 
ptI TTPwrpraTpr 
TTPl Pr rrr pr^T tt 
T^ rfTTPTP, »1T pflp 
TIP 5TPT Tntt fiprr TJTT 

fTTrl % PrsfR ^PTTTpsr 
% fair TPITT f I 

( 2 ) jwft wrtpf tp tpt>ip ’ft sftw PT>Tt % 

tttIstt 1 ptttt % frrr tt*p ttTxjtTp 

% TTl ^Pt TIT TT TP 

tt% ttA ttr prrsrnnr- 
fV 1 ^ THT 7 ! 

jrpr, ^Prr Fmr 

1071 t tpitt Pr t 

ttVp t vrn f Pr tp ^pt 

TTTP ETT 'T>Fr TT «TT 
TPTTT STPT T?R f»PTT 
^rrRTT tt% isttPr t?T 
Tt’ | — 

(pr) TTTT, TPTlf PTTft >P 
TO — 

^PPT P^PTTI TP fTTlfrrrr 
TrprTT%T TPTrtt ^Rprl 



3 


3 


[*rnr II — to 3(ii)] 
' 1 2 


ototttttw :ooTt 22 , nm/ofe® ;n, isoo 


1981 


14. wrrf'n'Yo 
fo?wpft 


% tflO, OOTf Oft flfe 
oof oor ?r*rrf«PT 
STOTT OTTlfr IW TT 
ooforfe jrxr iffer fro 
T r OtO, OfTO i Pfeo 
Pottoo wro if qr 
OOT fOOpTO if, 0*1 (T 
pit STOTT Pfe afrit |, 
8 OPT if ofOT Tf 
ifr i p4f qtrrr o o^r 
o<$ V Tr "tfr^ ororfr 
TfeP 00 OPT if VtfoT. 
or aost or oor oror 
t, ojrr oo% tw 
foooo tt off or 05 
®jfr ooo oTTrft jtu 
or oorfo TRT ^fto 
•ftmTonjif i 


few : — OTORRT: PTTOft 

poottto ifo to, hotum, 
OfOTTO, feftO OTfa % 
JJJPO fO ofeo rotoTT 
TTfff ffeft I Ofc OOffliTO 
jrfoot tP owr 5oo if 
to | i srftrcf <f 
rotPro wti ppt 

PrOfof 5TTT OTTfOlTOT- 

fe VTTSft OTOof I foot 
qTTOTTTOf if *js>M TOO 

oorsrTTO orowt o' iff 
tttot orpor i ofe 
orfso iff of, rjfco 
owo ofr r ro otPt 
fesff ijtjuiTWf % otkpt 

if PA *OOBTT %Ofer, 

o fo trio mo; ^f, ii m tc 



(o) SvIOfrOTt % ill : — 

frtiTT ht crnt 


OTOOft *00 IT ISTO^PTOt 

m pTR % tfU. 


% Jq-ifr % Pro OO 

gtfffrifrr ^rr ^rrr^r 


orfoTifl orr o^fr p% 

| i fitf fRrrft ou«rMJf 


Pro ift-Tt of foomrsotsT 

feff Pono rnro ^ 


% tot % ofo qff q - iff i 

oitt TiT ofer rsrfeR 



o^r "fifer ofo rfesro 


(o) t^orrf, srorarif orfc 

ofeff «A rfw 3, o o o if 


wit otso oo $ iroo : — 

®PO ^ tffr tfrff TOT o 


Oft f% pit oortt or 

005 ofrroo/Prvrro w^- 


otfroriT sort $oo 

fwr srffTOt ORftfecrfe 


ofoorf | o*It ofr itor 

orfrqoT or ffefr 


% Pfer o orwo ooof 

^rnroof % ofef ^ffe 


orp orp $f too % 

ormnn i qot trmrff 


ffecr <sco oo snfiifuPt fit 

i %ofto «<.+r<. % feff 


Ptot ir^tr if frwn: % 

Prom Tit pit Pmft 


JRT Trrcnyf aff fe 

osmmmf o’ o rmr/Pno- 


fe*fnrrs!f«f % ffn: if 

0 1 fl TTTif %■ Pi felT 


8nf fT f^t 1 

Prof oo ofToPn ^ 

*rfiEr*rt , 

l- ®q7f mfe fe^wFift if; 

yf oProot oror ?Pft i 

^TinT ^nt 

ffecr ffertpf % iWiftfr^T 

ofTT % Prof fit ^TO- 

pH 3 W, rpoi 

OTlf % 5TBTTff- 

affa - w\ < 'J'I'TjT ?TTPT 

arcror oo% 

Prf hVT^IO 5fTT *1 h7|-h h m 

arm 

q^iflw if 

qx Proffer fe^f qro 

rffsi ffmr ottoit i 

feoffo fern" 

OT^nff % smrtffe : 3O0O 


q’qrifr i 

fwf gnrrTT 1 OOTOPO- 

2 - foioPrPrr OTfofrrft 


frtrr frw wort rfe 

OOO OTOTffTT vfr nvr- 


fe^rof'jpl frr frrq 1 vflMrf 

ffoo rffefefer rrnrf 


fofefr % JfTKqTT it 

of i PurfOM i TT TTO 


frota feor sttot t, 

ofwmrf % 


^T wq% jttt qn;TTT ito 

oreoo if oo% rrmooo- 


®orf <pt^ % forr rfes 

oPro oo rPrrft off- 


Pooto % ferr 07TT rfm 

Ptonff or roroto oo 


% onfe orr^ofr PffW 

if foot ooft | Pra% 


r;fer i 

rpofo TTooTr rr#fpr 



1982 


i 


THE OAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part Tl— Sec. 3(ii)] 


3 


4 

1 

<FR ftrfTHnsfl c Pfr*f '*0 

g:- 


( 1) Rvft Or^nr 5000 to 


srftnrfr 1 

15. SPCTJRf: 

(2) farrRnnrw 2000 to 

( 1 ) irruYto 

nTn^'t 1 

IfTTRR 

(3) TTRfRR RTRSr 1000 


To Rfarf 1 


frAf wfaTTuff % RTWfR If 


h»Hirw Jjnr sAr PjtfT' 
«nofl ig TTR qff RTRTT 


swtrrJ rt *rr rfN % 

TpR fq t» ITi cl RA oTTTTRt I 

43TJT Fmnfr STrr tO % 
■m^hT^h rA uhi/htai 

Tiff g 1 


3. wfo trtnrRT *Ar PrOr 


RTRHT If Jlfi Fiofi- 
frfWCTf $ RTSRR 

0 wrrgtR fRwrrfor ijstt 
*At ftrwffTJft iff tttrr 
gtr 2 A farOrfW: tnr 
'fMArr It wfar ?t 

XRff g «At qfnTTRTTTT 

TT RTR faRTR vfn- 
VT«ff % RTWf 0 TTtT 


TTRT UTRnW RTHTRT 

g At, Rg ftf'fT’T, *rf* 

At Frjff wftnmlf 
ff isnO <fmf tffRRT 

JJITW OlSqiffi JTTT 5Tt 

iff w^fr % wsfU^rj- 
tT?rt tO If wfsw Rgf 

*nj*ftTT % Orff Rff 

OrTf tfpRrnTjff If ttr 

(2) wjrwpN : 

SfRilRH 

TiRf TPfiO g 1 Pq A 

1 6 WTCTI : 

-4l m tAt *^3 T *rf ffTPr 

( 1) ffT«m urmf- 

fffO fTRET 3TTI ftnfT 

^nr 

^rnriTr tAt *prr 

(rt) urgt Pfr «rm- 

i?fft qr^arr fA 4mr, 

ERFT 7 [AirAtT 

farPtfm tAt fffgrr iff 

RIRfRm % 

Wt lA gRTT •ttA if 

flTf RRW 

RinWf RTTTT : 

fipirr t ’rrar g 1 

Tirg; srft OTT Fff^ 
irr'f rO w^^f H ftrAr- 
fw RTf It wfg«F arTT 

(ij) RTgt f¥ TTH- 

Anff mPhTi < ''!'i RTf RiTR 

fRfRT WfiRf:, 

gA TT STWIR PfTTT RqT 

R'lRI'RM % IFf 

gf, RfT fa-RTIT JfWjfr 

*f RAT RfRRT: 


Rfr urA Rffjrar- 
f*RT % qrnnfi If farf^T- 
twr I PT i rr i 

7/0 wrPPT*rt ( i ) ^ft^r rtttt % tpjw 
mmf tt tr grrf 

0 < fjTTTRTrft ^ 

FttrI % qftfvp^ i ;i 
% gwtrf % *njirfT 
fvRT 3 rnT>rr i 

( 2) TOR % fiPT 

strnpff rt Rfra 
qgl g TH T I far 3 T 

arrff ttr % farr 
^TT^ifr Prrprr CT wf 
BTTT r-roTdrl ftiiTT 
-qHT t 1 r? tr | Riqit 
TOO A 7^ 3 R%TTTT 
falTR gfRRf TT 
mP^h Nq fTR 7 'JiTRT 
TrfgiT I %RffR RT- 
TIT fatTPff iff 
W $ ffTRT^R trij 
WtftfRTT HTTf 
fVuT TRT RTfglf iff 
3 R RpTR T RTT A 
rT? tt r gf i 

( 3 ) RITcHr ffgwT 3 TTT 

fair M Rxr J T Hf T tf 

RTTR RlfTOWP 

sttt w fafaR rtt! 
farr TT«T pRiliff % 
rrtttt tr (Vw r 1 1 > <i 1 

7A RfaflUi WVIIRtAr STTHTRl % JRnfa 
>jwf, ’TPTmTW, tr^T 

fWnTi Fn-, HTlTR WlOr 

g ' 


(> 

) tfw jpffanff % ffnr 


wAPstit rtr-trit 

%*Wf, RRfRTTTr 

Hfii*ii r qfii Ri'PiT Ait 

rAt JfTtrR if 

Pmfw f«pn»r t> 

1 5000T0 srfA 

rt Art Tifkir *Ar 

rO *At rfr 

1311% TjTfglfTr »fr 

TTTRf If 

TTA TTfgTf fTOrfflTT 

1 oooto srfw 

^TT Tff^f 1 RTf TR 

Rfff 1 

RRRT JRMfRTTWfwrt 


Rff RTUTTR OtuTTr 

q 1 

tt Rmnr g AVr 

rAt 1 TSTO If 

frcRfAfea rttTT 

1 oooToRffr 

In wwnffa htjtk <r 

RTR ?At W^T 

RTTfjfr 1 



4 


[ r *rr T T II — ’tit? :i (ii 


1 2 

fadPT-^dR dr 
ir ddR 
fadT TTFTrt I 

( 2 ) farm % ik 

VR 5T>it3pff 

%faR I 


drmdrmnrdrj : firf 22 , i9 7s/wdr$ 31, 1 900 


1983 


3 4 

wrt *r 750 

da dfadPT I 


1000 do jrfd (<r) !pr ®rfawt % kffa 
«Pt fcpft, dR'J. faRTT 

*rk t^tTt It dk 
nm-mR ffa farft 
drinfarr dr fair fas 
tt w fkrr Trrprrr 
fa fafaw 'dRrotk 

t(fa ifaTol'd JRT IR 
ddfar *r ddfatrr 
tlTPRdT ( ^< 1 ) 

qr=r-^VTFT TT ^TdR 

iff; 

(fa) fart fakr farrffatfa 
fwr dfa dRsr ft 
d?t ddd dfat ddT- 
far fadT JtHMII fa 

rpr dfcfak t; 

(d) Rfa fafad *rfa fakr 
ffanr dk df 1 *mr 
dfa drcr-ddR Rfa 
dd Sfa dfa sTffarrfr 
dft ?drfad fariffarfa 
ffarcd or dim ffar- 
3Td dTfiRrRt d?t tt?rr- 

dRT t dTd rRRT 

fad $,% ?«n- 
far mftpPTfTd't *r 
M MdlilMd wffa 
5HdT drddr Rfard ft; 
d lidr tfwilF 

(d) Rd fafa d-rffarifa 
Ittt wft ffakr 
fafatd fa dfkftdTfa 
V fadd RR-mH 
drf id ffarr dpn 
it rw *nrf dd (fa* 
Trot fa wtdddT fad 
Rlfa krq d?Td dd 
STfadfat irt fadT 
RR.dT , d far 4- fair 
fad> ffarfa ffamr 
jrt ; ddT 

(*) r»lfa ft? dTORdld 
drm drrdfad 4? ftfa 
dTt dd ffan dwr 
it dft dm-mpr *rr 
OTrdd 4R*m far- 
'Rr fad drfar 1 0 
srffartr it fafar dfa 

JRT I 


1 2 3 


( 2 ) dlTdd RR-tdR ddl- 
dFdd: fam TT raffl'd 
snrtddt % fad *n« 
dd fartrr art 'rrfftr 1 
fanj irit dfard *nd 
4fr dk dR?B frrat- 
dd ift 4fasnwf % 
WiJdTT fTdT dTd-ddR 

d dr rjf^t 
fdvfa ifafadfddi fatr- 
dTd d?T dTd- 

wrrd drrdfard-ddT- 
fadTd, fddTd dT wpd 
Sd'tT'lf % fdtr dTt 

dd fafdt rsn rfardT 1 
djft dTO-ddTd Tnrf- 
rTd'ddT fddtd % 
ddfard % dT^ 
TT fadT dTdf | 
d!', f fddTTHrdTd d>r 
dVTTd fa# fdfafddS 

dd dr farrr ^rfafad 

fardi diTddr dk 

dcdidtd dd dd dfr 
&R>d dRd dm dr- 

•rrrft km dd *tk 

rm dd dd ddfa; 
gdRdrff dr vft dd 
^nfapT fftdr far dd 
mr fadm-PdR dr 
ddTd dd dT^dd dd 

W 7 d dd OT far 
%dW dridfard ^r faR 
rrt pdT dm-RiR 
d % fadd did 1 
^fatr WiJ^ddT fadd 
311 wk 312 %ddT 
rjrRT dW-FTR, fa n 0 r 
ipTdfad dft V'famt 
d WfBR ft fadTO 
dTO-RTR % d*T *1 
upth dWT djr ifaRT 
4k sit farrft dd 
■rft Wfafad dTdit Jt 

dit ^faffad did ?RT 
dTffi; fa; ,fa%TTRdr 
% dl^dld rrn dd 
% srm d?t |fadd 
% 4 Rdm fatRT 
fadTTWdR TfjfaH ?t 
idfat 5 jrftrom 
% kddd % drsdrffa, 
drfadr d ft 1 

( 3 ) drsHdR % fadm 
ddFr dr ffat jftfadr 


385 01/78—5 



1984 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)J 

1 2 3 4 12 3 4 


faw 4 5-n »P WtfFT 
WPP '•tTT'P fjtff- 
tfrpTR- % WRIT TT 

warfR flr>n wtr 

’STTf^'T I 

( 4 ) -rnjff, of* Yt£ u, 
aft HT^ IT ^ 
ifcr ^TOBTH TT PT* 

?f, Out wnft wot 
5 TTr wfttlraff % 
W 5 ttt ftpfft wr 

f-=rrr m frTT TH 

1 ^ rfm 

*T |Tt ^1 i T 

A’ % 

HTEPt if 

tt ^ ^rr vfgi; 
tfk a^rrPmf * 
wfu »!TR7T^TT 
ftfi’OT WtT Urls*’ I 

( 5 ) (Tfr wt St, qtv 

It wfsrar irt 
fTOR'fa % fr=rrr tt*t- 

PTPt V|Tf TT Tfijf 

It 4 1 ^rtprt 1 

(s) ftrrH wrw *ftr 
EfTTETTr oVimu 

*rraw* *rri tt 
S rt iff ytt RTfTRirr $ 
hJt ttTtt tA % 
PpPipt grg wj 
1 irsr wr *fat- 

W Wtf TT TTTT- 
PTTT # TP P?fT- 
?R ftpfctPTt *fft 
mm •hX'i t 1 ^1 '4 
«rt w srnrr 1 

( 7 ) toffot uPp EnrW 
ffwr * *rrOPTrcf 

fU ^rreRTT trri tt 
% ftnt Rrftmrt 
pTE’TfTTt^TT sfTnrrT : — 


wtlWr r ’KrfVsjTT wfapw irOnr q| rf 

Tnrr wi# 



^0 


irw^rftPpn: 

10,000 5 

Tpf 

mr tr tTtOrrT 



irtltw^ftPprt . 

7,500 3 

=r4 

irritqTw tfqftPm: 

5,090 3 

*4 


(t)) !q**i R 

vittt Sr putt ttrTr 
T«rr ffppt *W ?V 
wWl V Opt 

7,500 Po qf^TTR 

tp wt fVw wh- 
itt % Tmm Sr, 
propm pit vtirt 
or %it qrt qqrft 
lO JlfW-tT $ I 

0*rr *pt£ tt! wrur 

fattSf W <PT PT1 
m-oTPtt jjt, qflt 
W*E 7,500 T° 

qEnrra- It wRtp ?t 
^r, fA^-w *r«TR am 
Opt tettttt qtf 
ffTTIT qrrrjTT 1 
?T tnft ■*TT*Rft *t 
PtrW ^flT srmrr 
EnTrarr T«rr 
ttpp OtqW Or*rnT 
% 'JT TTPPit TtrPRTT 
^rm 1 1 

(o) ^rfr Op mst? 
^ 94^7 Orsmft spft- 
Tpff % OPT nr 
'tni'-l 4-TTT-fT5T 7 T % 
5T>ftJptf % farr 3TT 
nrS TT [Toi ^TT^T 
% T?[t iWft«T0T 
OmTtRFr ^ ftnt 
or fYrnfN ^ 
ftR ttwit jrrr *j- 
PTTlft fit WTT 
'3TT T*pq It ^tfifP 
Tit i>n Yt uh 
to % OptO wrfPtn; 

It, f^ra% Ortr nr 
wmOrr |, jjo Oto 
45 - 17-4 («r) % wrfTr 

l^Tftq 11TP T«TT 
T*t sji WPP ff-r 
% irt? % ttutt 
it fvrt: fw ^ 
WrfWT qTTWWJTT 
IPPIK ?:inr I tfjfr 
Twrr *r ffrtrit fwt 
Olt pwt % Pro; 
wt^ ?tr trt 

ft ItftPP 1> TtTTTT |, 

OrfT jf^Tw *pt 
W^qlTT WfwtRpPTT 
^VnTTT I 



1985 


[km II — 3 (ii)] 


*rnxr na THPrur : r^mf 2 2 , 1 s 7 a/arnrra 3 1 , 1900 


1 


4 


; iqTdnr Tt a^kf 
% 5 PT>JR % farr ■JTT- 
^rfitrqt nk ^ *TT 7 nr 
W % mwmr % aaf- 
4 R % finj ^an ^rr 

art % Pi IT faf?n " 74-177 

wk nrfanrcTJT nrr inwFT 

^fTT I 


1 7. mak-fr >jtf wfkk 
aTOTff ?rk 
\J*T*PT ^d’T^T 
4 fHT ( 5 fft 
faff 577 

asrfa'jnff ^ 

^ST^ffr) 1 

is. 5 wur, ukr, 
nkm mrfa 
(¥r^r fkr 7 T 
% ’Tfffa 7 T- 
nkf ifanfr nfr 
nt-janr 'rV^tt 
®TT %- 

fw) I 


10. f 7 ftrera«rmy 
fr ?wftrfr 
faffa sr*nr 1 


nmff 7 Tmrrc nr fn«rm 
nrtrrftnr fkfk 
’f'TP/prr' % <RTktf ^ 
f*tnr tnkr arkf nm n: 
fWmrcTwr n?f nrfmTf 

RT wrr 

rink | 1 un Jiroff 
*pf rxYy nrr, rffif 
nm rfo io *f Prfkr 

'JTO TTT^wff 5 RT ^ 
WrftRffT fw ’TUT |I I 

rfir *77 ^ ^ *f ftr*TT- 
nrsmi vt nrfwTf m 
krkff am krfkrfkr 
nfy armf | 1 


20. "RTrPq^r, jrr»rf^!Tt riff nmfark^r rr ark- 


irmfspr 
sniffy fy rknr 
fnmTkkTt 1 


«rftnr Ti^kfir jnr 5»r 
kfflrr nrkr fkr n-fr 
^rom m fkk nnkrf 
% nr^rrm fnfkrfkrkaT 
nrrrrriT 1 

21. (nr) rrraTki 

(i) OTrfnik 

?=r urfTRirt nrr akn "fran 

IkvffR fnak, 

pmnr rmrrff 

nrnnfr kkr nr jxtpt 

1 y 0 3 nrr n nr- 

nr ^fpx fork- 

nfk rrrrfk nr 

qftfw 

?rnr nfy 5 >rr if 

fknrY' if nr^rnR ^fnn- 

9 % msfk 

57: tpr niw 7 

tur nr kfra nrjnnff 

^k"y if arktrr 

T 7 5 , 00,000 

rn'nT ■'j'-j'ff-i jrt nTm 1 - 

^ranr q-iffify 

no ak 1 

rnra ar krk kny na 

kkf % ^5 1 

(2) JTknk 
rrpnfy % rj^w 
% -Hd 4 if 
nkfMrr, km 
irnmfy kkf 
%, nrmknT 
Tnak % fky 
nr^rfik ir 
fk^r> w % 

ak nrjkff ir mifrak 
fnkr nrk’TT i 


fak tort 
^ wr ak iff 
RTT fr 'JTt 
’Trf^wqt I 

(5) ®k-®k 
*T 5 R- 3 TJTfff 
knt nr n«rr- 
akram 1 


(2) k?f7 ffTRR % fakf 
farm nrf imm mmrff 
kfnf v RtT^f am 

% fary r^f wfwrf 

?kf fakj; 2 5,00 0 

n<> afa n't It wftpp 
rrt **)*! 4 i^> jnr 
el All oiotfl % fkT- 

wnr n>y ogoffT fr 
aiftrsm tat nrrmTT 1 


10,000 (1) 57 nrftwf 571 amn 

afrr m ‘imra *mrcfy srk'f 

4: aam wk "mam 
« ffk pmA/ if 
IFcrfro W^Klf 77 T 
rny r fd rrtT rmra- 
777 ox nrkr fam 
TriT jrfJT mura nr 
fnnra tojtrrrff % nrar- 
tffjT fW ^niynr 1 


(3) f«Rff wrfrrnrEsw *rr 
1000 no srffT nn 
<pf rfy*TT rkm 
?rnrrff % wfrn 
*ikr ^y nrfys ^yift 1 

(4) (1) if 
% OTFtff % rrwimn 

T f TRn ^r 

Hnnwt k ^1% foy 
nrr ink ^ «h«r 
rr^R fmrrfy + 4 r 0 
% pnrnfn w 
^fy wfrtio 1 iffor : — 

(nr) “ferfy, 10,000 
5 TTCT no aid 
^3 nnrn fnr^ 
yr^sfr, Sun 

n'mT, nnn ohiI'i nr 
mk f 1 0 , 1 m ^ t nfr 

TiftW- rrfnffr % 
nrk ^ff- rwftn 
n? % wfrwt 1 
anrTfrnr 1" 


(nr) "w>hm 5,000 no 
nik fHnfy- rrfri rrt 
nn: jk f>R 5 %wn 
nrr mrir- rrmfy % 
mr” fkkmr nfy 



1986 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 



(r) trt grt srffPRf 
RtTO'f *rk 
torItot 
rjtrt to 
rtorIr ^pr i 

22. ?sk: 

( i ) rtot % grf wfftwt 
faq *kf!TR 
kk i 


(2)TORkk, $Tf»rfffiRt 

wqfa; faff! 

% 

TOikiTOi % 

faq tffror, 

tii'Ji+iinin 

*fk OTTORT 
R%r Tkfwrr 
kt? I 

23. Tftjffj fkm 'jfrqfTOrt 
*rk tot? vt 
tor Tori 
TOkTORRTR, 

*rk sj;mf 

RWT i 


4 



RTO^ 77 R 

STSRTftR 
R%Rt 1 

(r) RWTOT, 

3,0 00 R» 

rrttTr 

TTfcT TO 

^tR RRR 1 

S[R[R 
RTRTff RT 
fRRTOR 
RfRfR % 
WWJTR 


qk PlffERt 1 


*rk rittoT % *r3- 
^Tfr*ff ITTT TOTORT RTf 

swnurf ir rrr % 
kq w toweit Sr 
Rk %w Pwiia tot! 
# kq torr i 

htot ^ k»TTRR ^ fSrq 

R5TR JTTftmrrft Rff Rkt 
Sr RR RTOT faq 
*rtftra krc toERR to 
TORTORI SRR OTTO 

Rflt fRf^r t t 


;(jl) 3W RTO fur RTHTTRT 

rt kfk mkr arct 
torrt srrfertRT R 
fTOTT TOR, rHrt <fk 
tot? tor , 4kf 
TPJg V % TOf^kf- 
f ^ l£<'Cl 
Rk RRTO TORTOf 

% fiw flwrfr kero 
%■ froft tff TfRtf 
to Rff rfr RTrofr i 


1 2 3 


24. kfafU RRTT ^wfTCTf 


4 

TO Jftkff ifTTT Mr- 

RfRR I I 

(3) tottrto rt wtrfR 
TORkrRf R fTOtfTO 
RRJf V TOTTOTTf* 
£ faq RTR «k 
W TO^TR TOTTTTTO 
tttt jttir to froRT 
rt Rikffa’TO kkR- 
fror 4ft Ripjfi 1 

TORTfi OTTOT q# 
fRRRI RT TOlkff Sr, 

(i) - 3 TT TORTTTR sfl'T 
TOJ$ V % 
TOknfrsjR to 
kkkr Rikf 
Hrqt R 1 Rkr 
rrtr k arrxTTff ; 

(ii) TO RTTRTORT 
RifRR TOtR klTW 
Rfrot wk tor 
rW RRTR 

TO TPffRf, TOT 

(iii) ^y; qv ^fkr 

Rrt % krq 

wfarorR tfr 

rTRIR fRtrfftrT 

TOR I 

(4) $TT (2) *fk (3) 

% 3WS TO RTRWT 
if TOR kf jftff 
TOft RWf TO TOff 
fTOTT TORT, fTOT% 
TOTOTR TO If ^ 
TO RTR ?rk TO% 
tor % froq wftrfr- 

RR RfkflRT Rl I, 
ftfW fapRTR'f RT 
RFTTRRT % Rk if 
tttorLt STRT TOTf 

kq rr fkTR trrkff 

5 RT kfrofiRT knr 

TORT | I 

fRRIRTERTfr ^R VlffR TO 

rrir Rrr torItotI if 


( 2) RTTR RTTOT % TORf- 
TOTT Sf kRTB RR- 
TOk R*R ^ fror 
RTR *fk TOR W 

q? *froror % rrr- 
rrr TO TOk kq 


kfrefRf TO OTfRJ TOR 
^r fTq TOT RRiR I 
TOTf ^!ffR TOTOT RT 
STTOTOR JTTT fRRRTOTIR 

^ krq RTff SfaTOR 
rto fTOrr rrt ff R?t 





4 


3 


[fTf’T II— -HPR 3 ( li ) ] 


HTTP f'T <UNd : W^rtf 22, 197«/aTPTT5 31, 1900 


1987 


1 2 

^ n;qr fqqm rtr 
it I -i 'ii J r thr tt 
fqqrnTpqsT qr wTwt 
q ?rw mr toftit q^g 
an? 'iir farm mfaqR 
% faqm rtr tt mjr 
ppnqr rrit ifr fwq 
THR if dpftqitq qr 
SfaRR q^f | I 

fqqrnTtqftT tfl, TIT tFlfap 
qj qqR RrmfaR TRT: 

trtr spffqfR r r:jfa ht 
faqfr mq mmfR qrsfq 

•P Wfffa qfaqVM PRR 
if «PT mpq TTf%f at?, 

a*i<i Jf famtim qrt 
H wfa rjq RH 
tt wh Rqq m fan 
hr q'r far #yf dirfaiR 
RRUFi'f qq smrr fqqT 
mm t 

•if,. hr qfa — (i) majm »pt srtTfamP 

farrm - qfafqT urn %qq qrtfrq 

ttott % fVqnr nr 
WS ftowp % 
^rraruff it fan qiqqr i 
(2) farfaT qfafarr n hr 
TRjqfq I; qTWTTW 
qr famr wfaur sitt 
fqfqqfqq fan Him 

t 1 

26. 3T!R WtT, ?xfi!TfafRt trqf TPHRl % qq, Hit, 

qormjfq, mfa i mqfg' *ffa trrr tt 

RH TTRqfq SRT TIT 

fafiRT qfaf faro iR 

HTirmr HI fqqq STTSW 

q? TTtqqR fan •■irririTTI 

qggm 0 

Tfarfal pqq qiTH "Pi qfapqr 
(farm 1 3 Tfar^ ) 

fa^qur: — qsfrqrq qTfmprfaqi SITT TRRPR (qRTR), fmfTmq 
HHTTfal qfa HaRt ft qsqHqqT Rq RTF far! qijtTR 
3RI mTT fain qrr HlURH Wryfari ^ WRIT R ^RT I 

mfwrtf qq qfmpqq tfrm farq qqr 

SJT trqr qqq-qqq irz tt 

y qq q tr Irtt ht htri 

rnmff sRrmff 

%qfrq HR, FT % faqR : 

(i) qq*fq wr fqqR, ti^- loouToqfqqq ^rfwfapqt 

qfa sftwi *rk rt- 
TF^rfa qfqqHTT i 


(ii) qqfaqR TftqfaFRt "jit qfrpqt 

qwrmP : 

(i) fa?qr, qm hIt tot ’^Ttufarn 'jfrwlRqt 

qqTrl', qfarr, ttr 

■fiT, qrftfafr qlT fa#rq? 

% WITOP 

(ii) ttr qrrRT 1,000 *« srfimT 3,000 

fa’lTRRHST 2 , 0 0 To nfcT TOT 1 , 0 0 0 T o 


fiRur: — qqTfaqrqrq qtT tr TTfaRifaq qftRTOrr *ffa hrttr't 
ii qftT qftRSR ir qfa Rfw q^RR ^1 faHHIH TTFHT 

htt WTT ^ I TTfi qqFR TTTlpTfi RRRt qfa RR TR- 

qnri thort % wthr far?n T»irq tffa rtrsh q 
ttttr'rj % 7 R’4 ir sir qfr hTht ap^ fw qrr soo 
t,c |, farq % aRTqn mqrfRTsr rr fanwR q^'T 
T 1 TJ3H, T»T?r q?T siRRTT, ^RTTH, HTPTTii *ffa qjfa't- 
qT^HtHfaiTfaRf I 

3RR*fr 7 

Uifam wt na^nm imq nit rfaw 

(fatHH 13 ^faOT) 

foqq i : kh ^=1^ if fafarfapii 'FrfaTrqi «rr qqfa wffaCT 

aifamri srt fan n Tfan qr?^ ^ m qqfq: — 

("P) ?[Tfa TT ^ SOPS q ?>Tr ^'r farfaqqfqT SfaPHT i i 
qjfi ii?fr sfa % far*r% Tfai'taq % fartr mnr 
5TTfepprT\- hi pm JTamq $ wfairr *fafSR 
?RT 

(l?) PPlfV HT>PFfr ii!FP SRT qrTt HRi qirBTT q 
efr faro^ far qsq qrfoipTTr srt oqqnTfaqr 
qrrqqrfl' ?fafarq %j 1 

fanr 3 : qnrm't if rp^I q?r ipfafqi hpt nij q faqqq % trhh 
if |i tit 'stfir wfanSw^ ir if, nir if stor i^qr 
fTOTHT srt qrrfiR £rt | 1 

facquT 3 : SR^faf % qrffaR q; fa|TT HFR V, ijpq, qHRT 

rit tt? unfa $ qgT “q^r ^w”, urk w scruff if 
"qfapqiqq hr-” jtrt 1 

STiffa qrr iitrfa qrftj’rpRf wq hIttPht farq qqr 

^T irqr SBTT if ?Tfa 
FSTir Tirfi 3TT Tfarpl' 

1 2 3 

Tdlff R RTTOliq qfr ffTSR TR^TT % 1 U, 0 0, 0 0 0 T ° % Rt7?r 

qq^pRfa ^rfaqf fa'Hio «pi qq rrrfqqt 7: far; 

tit qtrf, w qr 
RfadTr q; frrq 
?’f i 

rmraqr: i,oo,noo wr qurmi 

% fanr i 



1988 


1 2 


OTT Jfft ?tPt rt 

RR^RTftR : 3RR 
RT nftpT HR I 


fOT Sf R^lfte 
Wirt (rHT RTR 

ifT rVt *rrcfa*r 
ipf STS'fR) % 
jjft Jr Rk rrt 
%<mff if RTfaRt 
RkiJFT^TR I 


rRTT qnff Rk RkT 
Rirtk-n rt 
PlWlfTFT 3^TW1 
^TPTT l 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 12 , 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Snc. 3(h)] 


3 

4 

1 2 

3 

4 

(i) "ftwft, RTRTT 

(*fr) 1,00,000 e° % 



RfR't RTt PfToRto qrf 

Rk rttt grTr, 

kkJ RTf EE ^rpTRTTT 



ffTfR 

ifHrr, RRR Rk 

f$r<T iff RTtT t fTTT rt 



(i) RRf 2,00,000 1 0 

#f, Rtfkkt, 

eErt |r ttrw ^f i 



RlfRirR^ 

Rshr?, wm 

(<sr) tee erirI R 



RRT R[R 

irkr Rk fRTfkR 

25,000 Eo 



(ii)Rj3T. 1,20,000 6 

(ii) rtr r'shttrt 

2 5,00 0 E° 



RrRfRRif 

thttr fanTR 

(^r) TTVW 



1 S RUR RpfR 


E> ijrpTEf Rf sr£ 



(RFTorroRff ) 


TJT* SETE RTf 



if TRsf 1 


ErfaERt i 



(iii) RRT 80,000 5 


(rt) r^t kiwi e 



R^fkr fjTRjf 


25,000 E° 1 



3 . 5 ms 

kifTR rtttt It r«t 

25, 0 00 R° 



RffR (RRo 

f^'inr i 




iroRfo ) Rr giqr 





It TRt rr ? i 

JHitra'P : 




(iv)Rj3TT 48,000 5 

(i) ftFft, rtttt R k 

2 5,00 0 Xo 



RTifRiR PfRif 

rett frlilT, Rfstr, 




3 . 5 RTR Rfkr 

TER wk He, 




(RRolToRf,, ) 

RTk^Tf, ■R’JjkTTJ, 




tf TTR % jRR | | 

RR’nTRR Ekr 




( j ar) fkifr rr tt^r 

Rk fifRfkE 1 




WR R, aptf, RTR RRf 

(ii) Mwrar : 

1 0,000 5 o 



f'TRRRfJR SqTTRT 

RTTW Sfk frfa 

IRT) (i) UTOTRf, (ii) 



'RfRT Rlflfo RRflr 

ERWE (rtw 

RfRf, (iii) kkf, 



RR2TR Rk RTRT 

Ptrtr) 

RRT?w«i, *kf rt 



fRRTRR RRRTR It 


?rfkrt qft a ram 



RTSRR if fRSpl Rk 


Rk RPft nil srrPfl, 



Rffkm Rfkrrrt rtrt 


‘fTSTT^ <, y r 



kRTRR PTRTR RT 


Rk fkTR ft WERE 



rIrTTR Rk RTTRffR 


fit— 25,000 R° 



RRTRR it TR RRTR 


(>ff) 3RR RRTR t if- - 



RT RTra-RR RFR fT 


25,000 To 



Ri^ti Tw ^rr*T 





®fiT ^TJfPT 

kiftE REfTT % RiR 

25,000 



RrfRRT if 5IRT 

PTRTR 




R?f t, fRFTl RR 

ETTTERT 

Rffr RT TWTR Rk 



TWf m % snuT 


Rftwf Eft RR^RRtR 



FRfTft RT fRTifr RTR 


^ifRRf if | 1 



RT fRRTRkR StTTTR 

kltE RR'PR It 

25,000 Ro — R^ 



R f?TTT fipjfr RRTR 

flUTE 

WfRR fkRfRfRR 



RRTiftnTf RTfRRTTTT if 


firiN^T RTRsJr Tf[t 



yrka RR if RRTR RR 


?R RRtR Rt RT R%Rt, 



RRT RTRITRR f!TRf 1 


RR% : — 

kkf RT RtRRR Eft 

RR RTt 0t¥ T7| fifRiT (i) Rkf, RtRf RT 


(R) RRTf E# RTf 

RE^ETtET fjTfRET 

TFTpraR RfRrTRf 

TRR RT if fRR, krff 


(kmRtkr) Rk 


|, fRRTRTFRT 

nrt ^rfR % fTR 


RR'nr Rt RRfy (rr'I 



10,0 00 tie 


if), R> Rt k if 

(frff% RRt4r 


(ii) RRT RKTIRT if 


RTR, It R*f if fafER 

RfTC'it *fk ?Tpf Rt 


2, 5 0 0 To 


RETT R rTRT Rf 

1) 




ttVee PfraiRter rr 

RR^RpftR ROTT’f Rk 

Ruff FrarRrTRR 

1,000 To 


R fRRR fRRr RRT I - .- 

R(RR RRt nft 5TpT 





TOTT TTTTOTO : 22, 1978/nmra 31, 1900 


1939 


f tot II— tut 3 (ii)] 

1 2 

TRTO iff ( 1 ) WW-W/W- 

TT/TOT Tr/*TO- 

tt/toti 
TO jTT 1 


( 2 )tftm 5 j?T 
TTOeX, TTO& 
TWTtlT tT| J - 

TITOI 


( 3 ) ^^TO3?TR 

IJTT WTTT I 


(■l) VKtfiTjhnp 


(5) WTTST, TO 
n^TTOT #m 
TftrTr^r 1 

( e ) rfprr-Tpr *ftr 

TOTl-t vroT 

T%TTO, mW 


3 

tot^/T uto nfsRirfl 
Tt fTOTs fair TOt T 
wtftT TfffT 5 ^ , irpr 
to/to-tt/tot tt/h tt 
Tt/t TOTT TOT 

TOTT T TT^M'flJT 
WfnsT'Tf Tt TOlt 

art to# # grt 

Tfarot 1 

(t) #9t k]<?t wfsr- 
fron, i9 62 ^wtfpr 
aftrrtfarr -JTimrf *ftr 
unftrof Tt ^T^T- 
jfrt’ tt# % <rfrwnr 
^ f^T #7 afro# 1 

(«) w tot# Jt 

— i.oooto 

(t) #tot[pt «fff- 

1962 TOT %#T 
TOTH i(J?T TOT TOT 
WfttfJpTT, 19 44 % 

atf# ’ufattPrrr t#- 

# #r ijrrftrof Tt 

TT# % 
Tferor ^ f^r yft 
TfrPromt 1 

(a) totto# — 

(1) %'ffa TOTT UJTO 
#T TOT flfsrfTTO, 
19 44 %*T#T^Tr 
#% 4 ill : 2, 0 0 0 To 

( 2 ) #rr spr sfa- 

faro, 19 6 2 %T1#T 
TOTT if# T# : 
1,000 To # <. 

(3) TO^TO ( l) #T 

( 2) Jr t w# ti% 

TOT%: 1,000 To 

1,000 To TOITTW 
injVTO TTTOTOT T 

ant Jr wTgonfrr 
'ttst/ijtto ft- fm% 

TOf#T TOffTO mir 

TOUT #T #TT TOOT 

# |, Tt TUTT Jr I 

1,000 


(T) rflTT SJoT wf«T- 
f#m, 19 6 2 , #8 
#tt tot Tftri#nr 


Tin iTOjpTTT toth 
T pT tflr tot Trfer- 

flTTO, 1 0 4 4 % srtftir 
#### i[## #t 
ml## # nT^r- 

#«T TT# T TfTOTrr 
% 9 to; grr TrPfTOt 1 

(a) tot mro — 

( 1 ) #flo TO! 1 4 SJTT 

ttVt tot «rf*r- 
Ptto, 19 44 % wtfrn 
'Jtui ti# ttJt : 

2.000 To 

( 2 ) #TO TOT Trffc- 

ftro, 1962 % TOtT 
TTOt #it TT T1# : 

1.000 To; #T 

(3) UTfTO ( l) #T 

( 2 ) Jr n ar% toJt 

oT*#: 1 , 0 0 OT 0 THTTO 
( TOTT-TOT StVt I3?9TT 

tw) »f?r TO^rFfitr 
TT(ff Tt ar^ 
Tra% TOT rffaT-TJoT 

nftrfTOT, 1 9 e 2 Tftror 

lipp-TrftTpTTO TOT 
%nfrr ¥r'TTT-iif5T tot 
TTTT TTfirfTOlT, 19 14 
% TTiffT TOTTT 

tot sjTrfrf tfrr snfTTOli 
TV TO^TOliT TTifr 
% TPrnrnT oTwf 
% ttJ: Jr Tr 

TOftr rrraTTor fTTfrq- 
PTTO, 19 6 3 % fTTO 
3 2 % twstt % 

WWT TOT#TO ff^r- 
rrarqro tt TtoI^ 
fair tot % nTOtfr-T 
?tTT I 


( 7 ) ^TT T l(l 1^4 V 1,000 To 

% o^oflTo fTo 

( 8) frro f^ffTO 20 0 To (fTOTT JTTKfrf 
TT fTTOT TT ntET ^T ITT JTO% 

Jr m trt Jr TOfaT 

TTOTTftr ^ fjpr ftrro't 
% TO^rotr thtt- 
Trfrof % frrrr) 1 



1990 


THE GAZETTE OF INDTA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 


1 2 3 

torto tTYt ttr worn ( i) tor toFft i,« «u 

it t ralrc , jftJT tor fw i m3T«ff if 

tot tort jmrPp5T^> Ftjt fTTrirrvT*;? i 

tit f tot ttpu to 

ijr toFtor! *tYt 

TPrarraf i 

( 2) fTO*PTTO, 'TORTOR (TO) TORT-TORT TT fTOfpTO 
RT[-FtoPRTOT TOTO- TOfTTOTTOPTOr % TOtRTOfTO 
RTR TOTTOTTO I TO'TO wIt STOTT TORTS* 

TOf prfro I 

(r) TOR TOTRTi R 

1,000 Ho 

(:i) tptttotortoi i (to) tort-totoh tot fTOfpro 
qTfefPrmf% 'TOETOiTR 
to sf if tot Frf tototto % 

*VrTO TOTOfTO TOT ptfTO I 

(nr) tor toffr if— 

1,000 Ho 

( 4 ) fro^roro, totttor (to) wrrrow toT sror 
totototFto ?rsfer i r i Jr fTOTOTOrror tort 
% m totto %• TOTRTO 
prfro — i,o oo Ho htUt 
rF nr t 

(TO) TOR TORR if— ; 

1.000 Ho 

( 5 ) TOTOTOFT RRT (tj) TOTOR, SftTOTO 

toYt HfRIWr, tort jjt FirrY toF 

TOfrot wF-tto, tort, toFtor ir pFtoFtoto 
TOTOTO frr i pif ptPrY % totto^ Sf 

^fr wfTORt i 

(pt) tor tortO Jr — 

1.00 0 Ho 

(o) HtrrPfaro, 2 ,sooho 

TORTOR I 

( 7 ) TOplWWTO, 5 ,000 Ho 

totot 1 

(«) fTOTO, 10,000 Ho 

TOTTrffTO HTTP ajTT I 

toWFihh 

(tEJ^TOF 5 TO 3TOFFIT TOf TO ifo 11 %f%tr) 

wff IT pTOTTOTfTOTOT FtY TOFT TOTf TO TOR % (TOp Pm I 

TOt^R TTTPTTT % fTOTRl' TO UTfi TTTTOTT TO WFTfpTO FpTO TOTOT- 
•ftp TTTTOTff itTOTOf TO TOfinftP it WTT TO PPTTOTfilTOT TOTt % 

tor TOf fTOiFiPan Prh TOrfror pf*p ; — 

1 . Fpstto to Frp toppt Jr fTOro tori to tot : 

( 1 ) toFt tor tor Pttor % TOfwR if f P7 TOT RT 
fapR fTOT Hp TOTPP I 


( 2 ) pf* TOR pTO if TOftrTO FPPRT TO TORTOPr TO f, PT 
fRfr pP l 'Il p-HT TO if TO'f TORT ip fPp TO r If-H o-|[~JT TO TP 
t m TOR RTF PIT TORTT JTl I ^ f'TOfTOTO TOrrofTOTOfTTTO fTOTOf pTOT 
fTOTOTTO fr^r fpp Rr totor i tot ipr HrfP tot if % Erp fTjffTT 
fTO»fr TOTOTO TOT 'TTOTOl TOir TORTOPr TOR TOTTO fTOTORt TO TO 

TOTO TOT rfl RTT fTOTOR TOT TOrpiRTO EfTOlTO t TOT TOTORTTTO ITtiFtoT 
TORI TOT IT TOR, RTTO fTOTOTTOI if TO fl T Rf. iTi'T TOTOJTO: wfiTTOTf; 
TOTORTTO % WTOTOR TO, TSTT TOT TORTOTO TOrFTOfTO fTOTOR TOTT TOFTOTO 
fTORT TTTTOI TllpTO 1 TORIR Ip TOTTOlt TOTOT toFTOTT toFto TOT TOTOTO TOT 
TOfTOTOTTO TOR TOT% TOTOTO WTOTf'RR FtoTOR TO TOW f. TOT TOTO FtoTOR 
tot toFtoto Htot totrit, toFto TOji pTO to toFtoto totoiFtor fTOTOPfr TO 
TO TOTS! % TOT TOP RPR TOpf f'TOTOT TORTO1 I 

flRTO 1 — fTOTO fTOTOR TO! TOFTO TOR TORTO1 TOTOTTO TOTOTO TOT TOpf % TOTO SRr 
tTtr tor ir tot toFto totr f to tort t to?J Ftott toi 

TOTOTOT TOT TOTR TOTTO % TORTTO TOTOTTOTOTO WfET, TOTO 
pH f^TOR TOT TOTO% FtotoT TOTOTTO TOT RAT TOR TO r ^Tr 
t, Rfflro toFtotoft tot TOrpifr 1 

fjRTO 2 — TORFttoT if TOrfiTOTO TO1TO TOTOTOt R TOlf TOTORrFTTOr TOT 

TOpf f Fr 1 

2 . fTOTOTTO-RTT TO TOT TO tTfTOTOrfTOTO ITTOTOr TT TOT : 

( 1 ) w Prto to TOrTO frop top FarRTO TO trFrto % FTOtor 

TO TOT, 5ft FTORfTO FrTO TOT TOi% STTT TOTTORTOTTOr TTfrorjlftTOf TO 
■3TOTTfPTOpT pfTO ff, 3TTTO «FpTOfTO TOf RTOfTO TO TOTt TO, TOTOTO % TOFTO- 
TOPff jm ftp totTOto tot| top Ftotot tottoto TOTORT TOI tototor P I 

ffUTOf — toFto fTOTOt TOTOT TO TOSTTO STTRjTOrTf iRT TOp FtoF^ fRTO 
fTOTOT TOTOT t fTO TOi^TO TOT TOT FTOTOT TOff TOTOR TOTTOR 
STTT TO FTO TOTOTO % TOFTOTOfTOl JlTT TOR TORT TOTfpp TOf 
TOTOTOT: RT'T TOR TOTOTO TOT TOTORFTOTO FTOTTOTO T1TOP TOfir 
froroR 3 TR Pttot TOrpror toPt TOFtTTOrTOf ptr Pto tototto 
pfro TOff pt, TOTO TOTOp TOfTO Ftotot RTRorr I 

( 2 ) t TOT TOT TOfroirrfRff if TTOTTOfTO PfTOTO TOT Kfp 5 TR 
TORpTflTO TOff I TOTOTO TO! TOmTOfPTO FtoTOTOTO WTO TOFT FTOTOR TTR 
flip TOTOfif, PROTO TOT TOTO TOR % TOP if TOTf TO TOTOR 
TOlf 9% TOTOTO TO'JW’T % TOTO TOT TOR TOTOHr TOfpTOr, TtJt TOT 
TOf* TOlf Pf, TO r TOC TOF»TTOrpTTOf it TO^TO FTOTOT RTrrrrr | 

:\. TfTOTTO TOff P^Fto : 

TORS TOTOTqrFTOTOPT TOTTOlff RTOT* ir JrTO-*TO TOTTOT ^ TOf TOpf 
H?T% 5TTOTOR TOTTOTTf TOTOTOf TOT TOTTOR STR *TO TOTOTTOrRTTOr TOT Wpf- 
TOTORrlTOR TOT TOTO*f TRT Fpp TORTO I 

4. TOTOR *r TOTTO TOTOOTO-TTO TOr pfTOT : 

( 1 ) TOTO TOTOTOf #1 TOTt TO, TOf TOfTO fTOTOW FTOTOfTO Tff JTTTO’f 
if TO^f O'lT'l) fTOTOr TORT ^r FtoP TOTORf TOTO TORifTO TORTS' TOTTOT 
fTOTOfrT TOTOR TOTfTOjTOT *r TOTOR-W STR ptTOT fTOTOTO sp PlfTOTO TOr'RT 
fTOi TOTO TOT TOf fTOTOfTTO TOTf toF j [PU TOTTTOT $ TOT TOP ftroff FTOtrfw 

totF totrRtpt toT mpir + t°i tort tott* % firp 

TOTO-TOFFT fPrp TOP | TOT f*rp PfT T^ % I TOR TOTTOTTf TOTOTOf % 
tot* if wi-tto tots froronfR toi1to;tot str Ftotot totptot i 

( 2 ) pfro tort? fTOTOfw tottoFtoto jttFto pfTOT I fft Ftototw 
wFtoTOFTO TOTTO ifr frrp TOPfTOrFpTOf TORJTTTO TOTTTrF'TTOr fTOpiT TO PtffTO 

nfr RnFfr 1 



II — tm 3 ( ii ) ] 


tttt fnr Trsrrw.srHit 22, i 97 s/«mif 31, 1900 


1991 


fipg i 68 i % srfafaiFr 11 % TT^Eff ¥r tt?rn:: ww 
f*nn Trr trfrqt ftt fthtt xThTPRl 1 &, firirir faff’! 
faurffcr Ttr tttT TPTfjT str^f nsfcr ir w wnc «f?r | fa 
tt tt fam firfore tr id trirrq tt faafriT iw # ffiffRT 

fmjrir fi$r |, ufayj wnto, Tt ffTTftTr ?r, 

iRTTf p-qi^T sprier jptT 1 £ f^T t? firr^ 

TTfaErfar 'gr?r ipcr <rc rfim TTfjpr- w arm: TT t IV 
3 % mi tt irr Tfpm trtt ftfeT $ tt tt ffrsrr Tr wtttt 

TRTT Ttfe-T $ 5ff JrfasrFd' faffT TirffTT, tFT CTtSflT 3% '4Tf TP 
Etff Il?r TPTTTTT Vt I 

[To CTTM(e)-f-II (tr) /74] 
trro %® trt, wtt ufar 

MINISTOY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 7th June, 1978 

S.O. 2131 . — In pursuance of clause (3) of article 77 of the 
Constitution of India, the President hereby makes the follow- 
ing rules, namely : — 

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may 

be called the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules. 
1978. 

(2) They shall come into force with effect from the 1st 
day of August, 1978. 

2. Power to relax,. — The President being satisfied that it 
is necessary or expedient so to do may, by general or special 
order, relax, — 

(a) all or any provisions of these rules in relation to 
any authority; 

(b) delegate to any authority powers in addition to the 
powers delegated under these rules; 

(c) reduce the powers delegated to any authority to 
such extent as may be specified in the order; 

(d) impose conditions in addition to those specified by 
these rules; and 

(e) for reasons to be specified, withdraw from any 
authority all or any of the powers delegated under 
these rules, 

3. Definitions. — (1) In these rules, unless the context 
otherwise requires : — 

(a) “Administrator” means an Administrator of a Union 
territory, by whatever name designated; 

(b) “Appropriation” means the assignment to meet speci- 
fied expenditure of funds Included in a primary unit 
of appropriation. 

(c") “contingent expenditure” means all incidental and 
other expenditure including expenditure on stores, 
which is incurred for the management of an office", 
for the working of technical establishment such as 
a laboratory, workshop, industrial installation, store- 
depot, office expenses and the like but does not 
include any expenditure which has been specifically 
classified as falling under some other head of ex- 
penditure, such as "Works”, “Tools and Plan”; 

(d) "Department of the Central Government” means a 
Ministry or a Department of the Central Govern- 
ment as notified from time to time and includes 
the Planning Commission, the Department of 
Parliamentary Affairs, the Presidents Secretariat, the 
Vice-President’s Secretariat, the Cabinet Secretariat 
and the Prime Minister’s Office; 

(e) "Finance Ministry" means the Finance Ministry ot 
the Central Government; 

385 GI/78 — 6 


(f) "Head of Department” in relation to an office or 
offices under its administrative control, means an 
authority specified in Schedule I to these rules : 

Provided that such a person is the Head of an identi- 
fiable organisation and the minimum of his revised 
scale of pay is not lower than that of a Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of India; 

(g) “Head of Office" means a Gazetted Officer declared 
as such under rule 14 of these rules; 

(h) “miscellaneous expenditure” means all expenditure 
other than expenditure falling under the category 
of pay and allowances of Government servants, leave 
salary pensions, contingencies, grunls-in-aid, con- 
tributions, works, tools and and plant and the 
like; 

(i) "non-recurring expenditure’’ means expenditure other 
than recurring expenditure; 

(j) “Primary unit of Appropriation" means a primary 
unit of Appropriation referred to in rule 8; 

(k) “public works" means civil works and irrigation, 
navigation, embankment and drainage works; 

(l) "re- Appropriation" means the transfer of funds from 
one primary unit of Appropriation to another such 
unit; 

(m) "recurring expenditure” means the expenditure which 
is incurred at periodical intervals; 

(n) "subordinate authority" means a Department of the 
Central Government or any authority subordinate to 
the President. 

(2) The terms and expressions used in these rules and 
not defined but defined in the General Financial 
Rules, 1963 shall have the meanings respectively 
assigned to them in the General Financial Rules. 

4. General limitations on power to sanction expenditure. — 
(1) No expenditure shall be incurred from the public revenues 
except on legitimate objects of public expenditure. 

(2) A subordinate authority may sanction expenditure 
or advances of public money in those cases only in 
which it is authorised to do so by : — 

(a) the provisions of any law for the time being In 
force; 

(b) these or any other rules issued by, or with the 
approval of the President; or 

(c) any general or special order of the President or 
other competent authority. 

(3) Nothing contained in sub-rule (2) shall empower any 
subordinate authority to sanction, without the previous con- 
sent of the Finance Ministry, any expenditure which in- 
volves the introduction of a new principle or practice likely 
to lead to increased expenditure in ruturc unless the said ex- 
penditure has been subjected to scrutiny and agreed to by the 
Finance MLnisiry before its inclusion in the budget, 

(4) A subordinate authority shall exercise the power to 
sanction expenditure subject to any general or special order, 
direction or stipulation which the authority delegating or 
redelcgating such power may issue or prescribe from time to 
time. 

5. Residuary Financial Powers. — All financial powers, not 
specifically delegated to any authority by these rules, shall vest 
in the Finance Ministry. 

6. Effect of sanction. — (1) No expenditure shall be incurred 
against a sanction unless funds arc made available to meet the 
expenditure or liability by valid Appropriation or re-Appro- 
priation. 

(2) A sanction to recurring expenditure or liability becomes 
operative when funds to meet the expenditure or liability of 
the first year are made available by valid Anpropriation or 
re-Appropriation or by an advance from the Contingency 
Funds as the case may be and remains effective for each 
subsequent year subject to appropriation in such years and 
subject also to the terms of the sanction. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 


1992 


7. Provisions of funds by Parliament. — Demands for Grants 
and Appropriations for charged expenditure are presented to 
Parliament on behalf of the appropriate Ministry or authority 
concerned, Only after the Demands have been voted and the 
necessary Appropriation Act passed by Parliament the amounts 
so authorised become available to the Ministry or authority 
concerned for Appropriation or rc-Appropriation to meet stin- 
tioned expenditure. 

8. Primary units of Appropriation. — (1) A Grant or Appro- 
priation for charged expenditure is distributed by sub-heads or 
standard objects under which it shall be accounted for. Each 
such sub-head or standard object, against which the provision 
for expenditure appears constitutes' a primary unit or Appro- 
priation, The primary unit may include provision for both 
voted nnd charged expenditure and in that case the amoun! 
of each is shown separately. 

(2) Primary units of Appropriation shall be some or all of 
the following - 

1. Salaries. 

2 . Wages. 

3. Dearness Allowance. 

4. Travel Expenses. 

J. Office Expenses. 

6. Payments for professional and special services. 

7. Rents, Rates and Taxes or Royalty 

8. Publications. 

9. Advertising, Sales and Publicity Expenses. 

10. Grants-in-aid or Contributions or Subsidies 

11. Scholarships and stipends. 

12. Hospitality Expenses or Sumptuary Allowance* 

13. Secret Services Expenditure, 

14. Major Works. 

15. Minor Works. 

16. Machinery and Equipment or Tools and Plant. 

17. Motor Vehicles. 

18. Maintenance. 

19. Investments or Loans. 

20. Materials and Supplies, 

21. Interest or Dividents. 

22. Pensions or Gratuities. 

23. Depreciations. 

24. Inter-Account Transfers. 

25. Write off of Losses. 

26. Suspense. 

27. Other Charges. 

(3) The Finance Ministry may add to the primary units 
specified in sub-rule (2) any other primary unit or prescribe 
an entirely different set of such units. 

9. Allotment of Funds. — (1) The Ministry or authority on 
whose behalf a Grant or Appropria'ion for charged expendi- 
ture is authorised by Parliament shall distribute the sanc- 
tioned funds, where necessary, among the controlling and dis- 
bursing officers subordinate to it. 

(2) Subject to any special rules or orders issued by the 
President, the whole or - part of the provision under a 
primary unit may be placed at the disposal of a controlling 
or a disbursing officer, or the primary unit may be broken 
into a number "f secondary units and (he provision under any 
of these, wholly or in part, may be placed at the disposal 
of the Controlling or Disbursing officers. 

10. Appropriation and re-Appropriation — General Restric- 
tions.— (1) Funds shall not ire appropriated or re-appropriated 
to meet expenditure which has not been sanctioned by an 
authority competent to sanction it. 

(2) Funds provided for charged expenditure shall no f be 
appropriated or re-appropriated to meet votable expenditure 
and funds provided for votcrl expenditure shall not be appro- 
priated or re-appropriated to meet charged expenditure. 

O') No re-Anpronriation shnll be made from one Grant or 
Appropriation for charged expenditure to another Grant or 
Appropriation for charged expenditure. 


(4) Funds shall not be appropriated or re-appropriatcd to 
meet expenditure on a new service or new instrument of 
service not contemplated in the budget as approved by 
Parliament. 

(5) Expenditure on works shall be subject to the following 
further conditions, namely : — 

(a) Funds shall not be appropriated or re-appropriated 
to any work which has not received administrative 
approval and technical sanction as prescribed by the 
Central Government from time to time. 

(b) The amount appropriated to any work shall not, save 
with the previous consent of the Finance Ministry, 
exceed the amount approved or sanctioned for that 
work by a slim greater than the excess which may be 
authorised under the rules referred to in clause (a). 

Provided that such a consent may not be necessary if 
savings are available elsewhere under appropriate Works Head 
to re-appropriate funds to cover excess of expenditure over 
authorised limits upto 15 per cent. 

(c) Save with the previous consent of the Finance 
Ministry, no re-Appropriation shall be made from 
the primary unit "Major Works” to any other unit; 

Provided that where such a provision is made under 
Revenue Head in the budget, a Department of the Central 
Government shall be competent to re-appropriate funds bet- 
ween the allied primary units “Major Works", “Minor Works”, 
“Maintenance”, “Tools and Plants”, included within the 
same Grant or Appropriation and no such re-Appropriation 
shall, however, be made from or to the “Suspense Head” 
relating to a public work, 

(d) (i) Save with the specific approval of Parliament 
or an advance from the Contingency Fund of India, 
Appropriation or re-Appropriation shall not be made 
to meet an expenditure for a new public work not 
provided for in the budget, which may cost rupees 
twenty-five lakhs or more. 

(ii) Save with the previous consent of the Finance 
Ministry, or re-Appropriation shall be made for a 
new public work costing rupees ten lakhs or above 
but less than rupees twenty-five lakhs. 

(6) Without the previous consent of the Finance Ministry, 
no re-Appropriation shall be made : — 

(a) from and to the provision for the Secret Service 
Expenditure; 

(b) so as to augment the provision under the primary 
units “Salaries”, "Wages", "Office Expenses" and 
"Other Charges” taken together for the entire Grant 
or Appropriation. 

Note. — In the case of the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting, re-Appropriarion from the primary 
units, "Allowances to Artists” in the budget of All 
India Radio to augment the provision under the 
primary units “Salaries", "Wages” and “Office Ex- 
penses” taken together lor the entire Grant or Ap- 
propriation, shall not require the previous consent of 
the Finance Ministry, 

(c) from the provision made for any specified new 
item of expenditure in a Grant or Appropriation 
for any other purpose; 

(d) from funds provided under the Plan-Heads to the 
Non-Plan Heads both under Revenue and under 
Capital Heads; 

(e) between the funds provided under the Capital and 
Revenue heads under the same Grant; and 

(0 from the advance drawn from Contingency Fund 
for one object or scheme in accordance with the 
provisions of Contingency Fund Rules to another 
object or scheme or vice-versa. 

11, Creation of posts.— (1) Notwithstanding anything 

contained in these rules, no post shall be created : — 

(a) in the Secretariat office of a Depaitment of the 
Central Government unless the scale or rate of pay 



[W4 II— 3 fii)] 


uro thnst ; 22 , 1 9 7 s/trmnf 31 , 1900 


1993 


on which the post is created has been approved by 
the President for a post of similar character under 
thi Central Government; 

(b) in any other office which is under the control of an 
Administrator or Head of Department unless there 
exists in the same or any o.hcr civil non-secretariat 
office under that Administrator or Head of Depart- 
ment, a post of similar character on a rate or 
scale of pay approved by the President; 

(c) on a permanent basis, save with the previous' con- 
sent of the Finance Ministry, unless savings in the 
succeeding years can be established for this purpose; 
and 

(d) unless funds to meet the cost of the post, if 
temporary, can be found by valid Appropriation or 
rc-Appropriatlon from within the provision placed 
at the disposal of the authority concerned during 
a year. Continuance of such posts in future shall 
be subject to the provision of funds being made in 
the budget 

(2) The power conferred on a subordinate authority to 
create a permanent post may be exercised in creating simi- 
lar supernumerary post for the purpose of accommodating 
the lien of a Government servant who, though entitled to 
hold a lien against regular permanent post, cannot be so 
accommodated because of non-availability of such a post. 
The supernumerary post shall be created only if another 
vacant permanent post is not available to provide lien for the 
Government servant concerned and it shall remain operative 
only until he is absorbed in a regular permanent post; 


(4f An authority empowered by or under these rules to 
incur contingent expenditure or miscellaneous expenditure 
shall exercise such powers subject to the following conditions, 
namely 

(a) In regard to the supply of articles required for the 
public service and for regulating thc_ purchase of 
stationery stores for the public service, the pro- 
visions contained in Appendix 8 and Appendix 9 
respectively to the General Financial Rules, 1963 
and subsidiary instructions and orders on the subject 
shall be followed; 

(b) in regard to contingent expenditure on each item 
specified in column 2 of the Anncxure to Schedule 
V of these rules, orders restrictions or scales specified 
in column 4 of that Anncxure against that item shall 
be observed. 

(c) in regard to miscellaneous expenditure any rules, 
orders, restrictions or scales as may be made, im- 
posed or prescribed by the President shall be 
observed. 

(5) Unless otherwise provided by any general or special 
rule or order, it shall be within the competence of an authority 
to exercise the financial powers delegated to an authority 
subordinate te it. 

(6) The power delegated under these rules can also be 
exercised for a validation of an action already taken or 
expenditure or liability already incurred even when the 
authority validating the action or expenditure or liability, 
as the case may be, had no competence to do so at the time 
the action was. taken or expenditure or liability was incurred. 


(3) The power conferred on a subordinate authority to 
create permanent or tomporary posts shall not, unless 
otherwise directed by the President be exercised so as to 
add such posts to any service or cadre unless that service 
or cadre is under the control of that authority ; 

Provided that the provisions of this sub-rule shall not be 
applicable to posts borne on the cadres of the Central Secre- 
tariat Service, the Central Secretariat Stenographers’ Service 
or the Central Secretariat Clerical Service. The competent 
authorities may create posts but their inclusion in the Central 
Secretariat Service, Central Secretariat Stenographers’ Service 
or Central Secretariat Clerical Service, shall be subject to the 
provisions of the respective Service or Cadre Schemes. 

12. Abolition of posts. — A subordinate authority may sanc- 
tion the abolition of post which it is competent to create. 

13. Powers of subordinate authorities.— ( 1 ) Subject to the 
provisions of these rules, the Departments of the Central 
Governments, Administrators and Heads of Departments 
shall, in relation to creation of permanent posts, creation 
of temporary posts, Appropriation and re-Appronriation, 
Incurring of contingent expenditure, incurring of miscellaneous 
expenditure, and write off of losses, have the powers respec- 
tively specified in Schedules If, III, IV, V, VI, and VII, 

(2) A Department of Centra) Government may, by general 
or snecial order, confer powers, not exceeding those vested 
in that Department, upon an Administrator or Head of 
Department or any other subordinate authority in respect of 
any matter covered by these rules ; 

Provided that no power under this sub-rule shall be re- 
delegatcd in respect of : — 

(a) creation of posts; 

(b) write off of losses; and 

(c) re-Appropriation of funds exceeding 10 per cent of 
the original budget provision, 

(3) The Administrator or Head of a Department referred 
to in sub-rule (2) may, by an order in writing, authorise a 
Gazetted Officer serving under him to exercise to such extent, 
as may be specified in that order all or any of the powers 
conferred on such Administrator or Head of Department under 
sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2). The Administrator or Head 
of a Department shall, however, continue to be responsi- 
ble for the correctness, regularity and propriety of the 
decisions taken by the Gazetted Officer so authorised. 


14. Head of Office.— Department of the Central Govern- 
ment, Administrators and Heads of Departments shall have 
power to declare any Gazetted Officer subordinate to them 
as the Head of an Officer for the purpose of these rules : 

Provided that not more lhan one gazetted officer shall bo 
declared as Head of Cfficc in respect of the same office or 
establishment, unless such office or establishment is distinctly 
separate from one another, 

15. Insurance of Government property ; Government pro- 
perly, both movable or immovable, shall not he insured and 
no subordinate authority shall undertake any liability or incur 
any expenditure in connection with the insurance of such 
property without Ihe previous consent of the Finance Ministry 
except in the cases mentioned below - 

(a) Departments of the Central Government shall be 

competent to incur expenditure on the insurance of 
materials and equipments received on loan or as 
aid from Foreign Governments or International 
or other Organisations if, according to the terms of 
contracts or agreements entered into with (he 

Foreign Governments or International or other 
Organisations concerned, insurance of such materials 
and equipments is necessary. 

(b) Where for booking of goods by rail or road, an 
enhanced risk rate is provided, additional charges 
above those prescribed for booking of goods at 
owners risk rate, being in the nature of insurance 
charges, Departments of the Central Government 
shall be competent to incur such additional expen- 
diture for booking goods for carriage at such en- 
hanced rates. 


MOTES ; 

(1) In cases, where there is only one set of rates for 
carriage of goods and there are no alternative 
owners' risk rates, such charges are to be treated as 
freight charges under serial No. 6(i) of Annexurc to 
Schedule V of these rules and regulated accordingly. 

(2) In cases, where it is decided to insure properties or 
goods under the direct or indirect control of the 
Central Government, the Departments of the Central 
Government concerned shall effect the insurance only 
with a Nationalised Insurance Organisation and 
follow the procedure that may be laid down by the 
Finance Ministry from time to time. 



[Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 


1994 THE GAZETTEiOF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 


16. Delegation of powers to incur expenditure : Subject to 
the provisions of rule 142 of the Treasury Rules, a Head of 
Office may have power to authorise a gazetted officer serv- 
ing Linder him to incur contingent and miscellaneous expen- 
diture on his behalf subject to such restrictions and limita- 
tions as may be laid down by him. The Head of Office shall, 
however, continue to be responsible for the correctness, regu- 
larity and propriety of the expenditure incurred by the gazetted 
officer so authorised. 

17. Remission of disallowances by Audit and writing off 
of overpayments made to Government servants : (1) Subject 
to the restrictions mentioned in sub-rule (2), a Department of 
the Central Government, an administrator & any other sub- 
ordinate authority, to whom powers may be delegated by or 
under special order of the President, may waive the recovery 
of an amount disallowed by an Audit Officer or the Accounts 
Officer, or otherwise found to have been overpaid to a Gov- 
ernment servant, subject to the following conditions, name- 
ly 

(i) The amount disallowed has been drawn by the Gov- 
ernment servant concerned under a reasonable belief 
that he was entitled to it, and 

(ii) if, in the opiuion of the aforesaid authority, 

(a) recovery will cause undue hardship, or 

(b) recovery is impossible. 

(2) The authorities mentioned in sub-rule (1) shall not 
have the powers to waive recovery, — 

(i) of emoluments of the nature of pay, as defined in 
FR.9(21 ) where the overdrawal has been occasioned 
by delay in notifying promotion or reversion, or 
where such overdrawal has been disallowed by the 
Audit Officer or Accounts Officer after one year 
of the date of payment ; 

(ii) where the recovery relates to a gazetted Government 
servant; or 

(iii) where the amount involved does not exceed two 
months’ pay of the Government servant concerned. 

NOTE : The powers of Audit Officers and Accounts C'lfflcers 
to waive objections to or to foreign recovery of 
irregular expenditure in individual cases shall be 
such as may be laid down separately under general 
or special orders of the Central Government issued 
from time to time. 

18. Expenditure on schemes or projects : (1) Without pre- 
judice to the provisions of rule 13, a Department of the 
Central Government may sanction expenditure on any scheme 
or project, the total outlay on which does not exceed rupees 
fifty lakhs, if that scheme has been approved by the Finance 
Ministry. 

Provided that where a project as a whole has been sanc- 
tioned after scrutiny and acceptance by the Finance Ministry, 
further concurrence of the Finance Ministry shall not be 
required for sanctioning expenditure on the various consti- 
tuent schemes included in the project even if the magnitude 
of the expenditure involved in any such constituent scheme 
exceeds rupees fifty lakhs. 

Provided further that the approval of the Finance Ministry 
shall not be required to sanction excess expenditure over the 
original estimates of a sanctioned scheme upto 15 per cent 
•r rupees one crore, whichever is less, unless the scheme or 
project has been substantially altered. 

Provided also that in relation to public works, the power 
conferred by this rule shall be subject to the provisions of 
Central Ptiblic Works Department Code, the Central Public 
Works Account Code, the relevant Departmental Code issued 
after consultation with the Finance Ministry or any general 
»r special order of the President in this behalf. 

NOTE : For the purpose of applying the limit of rupee.? 

fifty lakhs, the entire cost of the scheme upto the 
date of completion (both recurring and non-recur- 
ring) including the cost of works (even where the 
provision for such work is made in a Demand under 
the control of another Department) shall be taken 
into account. 


(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), 
but subject to the provisions of the Central Public Works 
Department Code, the Central Public Works Account Code 
and any general or special order of the President in this 
behalf, the Department of Transport may junction any expen- 
diture on the maintenance of National High-ways and other 
roads which are under its administrative charge. 

(3) An Order of Appropriation or re- Appropriation of 
funds shall operate as sanctioned to incur expenditure on 
minor works and it shall not be necessary to issue any for- 
mal order conveying sanction to incur expenditure in such 
cases (vide para 63 of Central Public Works Decartment 
Code), 

19. Power to release funds : Subject to the existence of 
specific allotment in the Budget or Appropriation or re- 
Appropriation of funds or advance sanctioned for the purpose 
from the Contingency Fund and observance of the procedure 
laid down by the Finance Ministry from time to time, the 
Departments of the Central Government shall have powers to 
release funds for investment as equity capital of statutory 
corporations or companies wholly owned by the Central Gov- 
ernment. 

20. Grants and Loans : Departments of the Central Gov- 
ernment and Administrators shall have full powers to sanc- 
tion grants-in-aid including scholarships and loans : 

Provided that — 

(a) such grants-in-aid including scholarships or loan* 
are in accordance with the rules or principles pre- 
cribed with the previous consent of the Finance 
Ministry ; and 

(b) the rate of interest on a loan and the period of re- 
payment thereof are fixed with the previous con- 
sent of the Finance Ministry unless the rate of inte- 
rest on such loan and the period of repayment 
thereof arc prescribed in any general or special 
order of that Ministry. 

21. Indents, contracts and purchases : Subject to the pro- 
visions of these rules and (he provisions of the General Finan- 
cial Rules, 1963, governing the purchase of stores for the 
public service (and subject to the purchasing powers delegat- 
ed from time to time to the Central Government Indenting 
Departments for making purchases directly and not through 
the Central Purchase Organisation) a Department of the 
Central Government shall have full powers to sanction 
expenditure for purchases and for execution of contracts : 

Provided that the previous consent of the Finance Ministry 
shall be obtained in the following cases, namely : — - 

(a) any purchase or contract the value of which exceeds 
rupees fifty lakhs; if a contract extends over a period 
of time, the total value over the entire period of Its 
currency shall be taken as the value for the purpose 
of applying the limit ; 

(b) any negotiated or single tender contract exceeding 
rupees twenty lakhs in value ; a limited or open 
tender which results in only one effective offer shall 
be treated as a single tender contract for this pur- 
pose ; 

(c) any indent for stores of a proprietory nature, the 
value of which exceeds rupees ten lakhs ; 

(d) any agreement or contract for technical collabora- 
tion or consultancy services with firms or foreign 
Governments ; and 

(e) any purchase which has normally to be effected 
through the Central Purchasing Organisation, but 
which is proposed to be made direct on grounds of 
emergency, if the value exceeds rupees ten lakhs : 

Provided further that in the case of the Department of 
Supply the monetary limits under clause (a) shall be rupees 
two crores and the monetary limits under clauses (b) and 

(c) shall be rupees one crore for purchases by the Central 
Purchasing Organisation in India or abroad. 

EXPLANATION -. In this rule, the word “contract’ includes 
miscellaneous contracts, such as handling contracts and leases. 



VflTrT TT TPTWT 22 , 1978 /mi? 31, 1900 


1995 


[mi II- -war 3 ( ii ) ] 


Leases for hiring accommodation for office, residential and 
other purposes shall, however, be regulated under item 16 
of the Annexure to Schedule V. 

22. Trading operation : Notwithstanding anything oontain- 
ed in these rules, all proposals — - 

(a) for the purchase of commodities not intended for 
Government consumption, but for sale or issue to 
the public, State Governments or any other autho- 
rity ; 

(b) for the fixation of prices in respect of direct trad- 
ing operations of Government; and 

(c) from Government companies and undertakings which 
may be referred to the Government for fixation of 
prices for their products or stocks, 

shall be referred to the Finance Ministry for concurrence 
before approval : 

Provided, however, that a proposal under clause (a) or 
clause (b) may not be referred to the Ministry of Finance 
for concurrence if the value of the transaction is below rupees 
fifty lakhs. 

EXPLANATION ; In this rule “Govt, Company” has the 
same meaning as in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). 

23. Payment of Commutation money : In respect of a 
pension divisible between the Central Government and a State 
Government or State Governments, it shall be competent for 
a Department of the Central Government to authorise the 
debit to the Consolidated Fund of India of the commuted 
value of the portion of the pcasion of a pcasioncr not 
exceeding the commuted value of the Central Government’s 
share of the pension although the State Governments con- 
cerned or any of them have not provided any funds to meet 
the payment of their respective shares of the commuted 
value. 

24. Sale, etc. of public buildings : Subject to the condi- 
tions set out below, the Departments of the Central Govern- 
ment and administrators shall have the power to sanction sole 
or dismantlement of public buildings (other than a purely 
temporary structure) the book value of which does not 
exceed rupees one lakh. For sanctioning the sale or dis- 
mantlement of a public building, the book value of which, 
exceeds rupees one lakh, prior concurrence of the Finance 
Ministry shall be necessary. 

Conditions : 

(1) No public building shall be sold or dismantled un- 
less it has been previously ascertained that it is not 
required by any other Department of the Central 
Government. 

(2) No public building shall be demolished unless it is 
structurally in a dangerous condition or is beyond 
economic repairs and has been certified as such 
by appropriate technical authority or it is necessary 
to vacate the site for constructing a more important 
Government building or structure. 

(3) A public building, the sale or dismantlement of which 
is sanctioned in exercise of the power conferred by 
this rule, shall be disposed of by public auction 
through the Central Public Works Department or 
the local Public Works Department in areas where 
the Central Public Works Department does not 
operate. 

NOTE 1 : The power conferred by this rule shall be 
exercised only if the administrative control of 
the building vests in the authority sanctioning 
its sale or dismantlement. 

NOTE 2 ; The Departments of the Central Government 
and Administrators shall have full powers to 
sanction sale or dismantlement of purely tempo- 
rary structures. 

EXPLANATION ; A purely temporary structure means a 
structure, the life of which is not more than two years. 


NOTE 3 : The Chief Engineer and the Additional Chief 
Engineers and other officers of the Central 
Public Works Department shall have the 
powers specified in paragraphs 126 and 127 of 
the Central Public Works Department Code 
in regard to sale or dismantlement of public 
buildings under the administrative control of 
that Department, 

NOTE 4 ; Ministry of External Affairs shall have the 
powers to sanction sale and dismantlement of 
public buildings abroad, the book value of 
which does not exceed rupees one crore. The 
certificate envisaged in condition No, 2 above 
is not necessary in such cases, 

25. Communication of sanctions to Audit. — (V) When- 
ever the consent or sanction of the Finance Ministry i9 
required under these rules, such consent or sanction shall 
be communicated to (he Audit/Pay and Accounts Officer 
concerned by a Department of the Central Government 
itself after adding a clause to the sanction as follows ; — 

"This Order /Memorandum issues with the concurrence 
of the Ministry of Finance (Department of Expenditure) 

vide their O.M./U.O. No 

dated ”. 

(2) Whenever the consent of the Finance Ministry Is 
required under these rules, such consent or sanction shall 
be communicated to the Audit/Pay and Accounts Officer 
concerned by a Department of the Central Government, 
where the Integrated Finance Advice Scheme has been 
introduced by adding a clause to the sanction letter as 
follows : — 

“This Order/Memorandum issues with the concurrence 

of Finance Branch vide their U.O. No 

dated 

(3) Whenever a financial sanction is issued by a Depart- 
ment of the Central Government in exercise of the powers 
conferred on it by these rules in consultation with its 
Internal Financial Adviser/Integrated Financial Adviser, 
it shall be communicated to Audit/Pay and Accounls 
Officer concerned by the Department concerned by adding 
a clause to the sanction as follows ; — 

“This sanction issues in exercise of the powers conferred 
on this Department in consultation with the Internal 

Finance Branch/Financc Branch vide (heir U.O. No 

dated 

26. Repeal and Savings. — (1) The Delegation of Finan- 
cial Power Rules, 1958 is hereby repealed ; 

Provided that such repeal shall not affect anything 
done, any order issued, any action taken or any powers 
exercised before coming into force of the Delegation of 
Financial Powers Rules, 1978 and ail sanctions, orders, 
declarations or other action taken before the commence- 
ment of these rules shall continue to be operative and in 
force even after the commencement of these rules, unless 
specifically cancelled or revoked by the authority who 
accorded such sanction or issued such order or took such 
action ; 

Provided further that all delegations made to any 
authority under special orders of Government shall also 
continue to remain in force unless speciflacally revoked 
by President, 

(2) Nothing contained in these rules shall apply to 

(a) the Ministry of Railways and authorities subordi- 

nate to that Ministry ; 

(b) the Ministry of Defence and authorities subordi- 

nate to that Ministry, in relation to expenditure 
debitablc to Defence Estimates ; 

(c) the Departments of Atomic Energy and Space ; 

(d) Government of India’s representatives abroad 

whose powers shall be determined in accordance 
with the rules/orders issued separately in consulta- 
tion with Finance Ministry ; and 



[Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 


1996 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 


(e) Posts and Telegraphs Board and various authori- 
ties of the Indian Posts and Telegraphs Depart- 
ment whose powers shall be as those laid down 
separately in consultation with the Finance 
Ministry and to that extent these rules shall not 
apply to them. 


6 . 

7. 


Financia. Adviser and Chief Accounts 

Farrakka Barrage Project. 


Officer, 


The Financia] Adviser, Mabi Control Board, 


ministry of commerce 


SCHEDULE I 

LIST OF HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS 
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION 

(A) Department of Agriculture : 

1. Plant Proection Adviser, Directorate of Plant 

Protection, Quarantine and Storage, New Delhi, 

2. Economic and Statistical Adviser, Directorate of 

Economic and Statistics, New Delhi. 

3. Director of Administration, Directorate of Exten- 

sion Training, New Delhi. 

4. Chief Engineer, Central Groundwater Board, 

Faridabad. 

5. Chairman, Delhi Milk Scheme, New Delhi. 

6. President, Forest Research Institute and College, 

Dehradun, 

7. Director, Tractor Training and Testing Station, 

Badni. 


(A) Department of Export Promotion : 

1. Textile Commissioner, Bombay. 

2. J Lite Commissioner, Calcutta. 

3. Chairman, Tarriff Commission, Bombay. 

4. Development Commissions for Electronics Export 

Processing Zone, Bombay, Kandla Free Trade 
Zone, Gandhi Dham, Handicrafts, New Delhi 
and Handlooms, New Delhi. 

(B) Department of Foreign Trade : 

1. Director General, Commercial Intelligence and 

Statistics, Calcutta. 

2. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports New 

Delhi. 

3. Custodian of Enemy Property, 

(C) Department of Textiles : 

1, Commissioner of Payments, New Delhi. 


8. Member Secretary, Agricultural Prices Commission. 

9. Chief Coordinator of Projects, Pre-investment 

Surveys of Forest Resources, New Delhi, 

10. Inspector General of Forests and Ex-Officio 

Director of the Project Logging Training Centres. 

11. Director, Tractor Training Centre, Hissur. 

12. Member-Secretary of the National Commission of 

Agriculture, New Delhi. 

13. Director, Pre-Investment Survey of Fishing Har- 

bour Project, Bangalore. 

14. Director, Tractor Training Centre, Karnataka. 

13. Chairman, Agriculture Price Commission, New 

Delhi. 

16. Superintending Engineer, Deep Sea Fishing Station, 

Bombay. 

17. Director, Central Institute of Fisheries Education, 

Bombay, 

18. Director, Centra 1 . Institute of Fisheries Operations, 

Cochin. 

19. Director, Integrated Fisheries Project, Cochin, 

20. Director of Agricultural Aviation. 

21. Chief Executive Officer, Logging Training Centre 

Project. 

22. Chief Pay and Accounts Officer. 

23. Chief Controller of Accounts. 

24. Commisioner, Fertilizer Promotion, Faridabad. 

(B) Department of Food : 

1. Chief Director, Directorate of Sugar and Vanas- 

pati, New Delhi. 

2. Director. National Sugar Institute. Kanpur. 

(C) Department of Rural Development : 

1. Agriculture Marketing Adviser, Directorate of 

Marketing and Inspection, Nagpur. 

(D) Department of Irrigation : 

1. Chairman, Central Water Commission, 

2. Director, Central Water and P.R.S., Poona. 

3. Chairman, Ganga Flood Control Commission. 

4. Secretary, Krishna and Godawari Water Dispute 

Tribunal. 

5. General Manager, Farrakka Barrage Project. 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

1. Director General, Overseas Communications Service. 

2. Wireless Adviser to the Government of India. 

(A) Department of Electronics : 

1. Director (Tech.), I.P.A.G, Electronics Commission. 

MINISTRY OF ENERGY 
(A) Department of Power : 

1. Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer, 

CHEPCW. 

2. Chief Engineer, Salal Hydel Project (J&K). 

3. Chief Engineer, Baira Siul Hydel Project (H.P.). 

4. Chief Engineer, Laktak Hydel Project (Manipur). 

5. Chief Project Engineer, Badarpur Thermal Power 

Project. 

6. General Superintendent, Badarpur Thermal Power 

Station. 

7. FA & CAO, BTPCB, New Delhi. 

8. Member Secretary, Northern Regional Electricity 

Board, New Delhi. 

9. Member Sccretaary, Southern Regional Electricity 

Board, Bangalore. 

10. Member Secretary, Western Regional Electricjty 

Board, Bombay. 

11. Member Secretary, Eastern Regional Electricity 

Board, Patna. 

12. Director General Power Research Institute, Bangalore. 

(B) Department of Coal : 

1. Coal Controller, Calcutta. 

2. Commissioner of Payments, Dhanbad. 

MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SOCIAL WELFARE 

(A) Department of Culture : 

1. Director General, Archeological Survey of India. 

2. Librarian, National Library, Calcutta. 

3. Director, National Museum, New Delhi. 

(B) Department of Education : 

1. Director, National Archives of India, New Delhi. 

2, Director of Central Hindi Directorate, New Delhi. 



[*TPr II — 3 (ii)] 


1997 


*17771 TT TF»TW : 22, 1978/RTflT^ 31, 1900 


3. Director. Asian Institute of Education Planning and 

Administration, Delhi. 

4. Director, Anthropological Survey of India, Calcutta. 

5. Chairman, Commission for Scientific and Technical 

Terminology. 

6. Director, Directorate of Adult Education, New 

Delhi. 

7. Principal Accounts Officer (Control of Accounts). 

MINISTRY OF EXTERNAI. AFFAIRS 

1. Chief Pass Port Officer. 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(A) Department of Economic Affairs : 

1. Director, Emergency Risks Insurance Scheme, New 

Delhi. 

2. Controller of Insurance, Simla. 

3. National Savings Commissioner for India. 

4. Master Indian Government Mint, Aliporc, Calcutta. 

5. Master India Government Mint, Bombay. 

6. Master India Government Mint, Hyderabad. 

7. General Manager and Ex-Officio Controller of 

Stamps, Nasik Road. 

8. General Manager, Silver Refinery. Calcutta. 

9. General Manager, Security Paper Mill Project, 

Hoshangabad. 

10. General Manager, Intaglio Press. 

11. General Manager, Bank Note Press. 

(B) Department of Expenditure : 

1, Controller General of Defence Accounts. 

(C) Department of Revenue : 

1. Collector of Customs, Bombay, Calcutta and 

Madras. 

2. Collector of Central Excise, Allahabad, Bangalore, 

Barodo, Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi, Hyderabad, 
Kanpur, Madras, Nagpur, Patna, Poona, Shillong, 
West Bengal and Incore. 

3. Narcotics Commissioner. 

4. Director of Inspection (C.&.C.E.). 

5. Collector of Customs and Central Excise, Cochin. 

6. Collector of Customs and Central Excise, Goa. 

7. Chief Chemist, Central Revenue Control Labora- 

tory, New Delhi. 

8. Collector of Central Excise, Chandigarh. 

9. Collector of Customs (Preventive), Bombay. 

10. Collector of Central Excise, Ahmedabad, Guntur 

& Madurai. 

11. Director of Statistics and Intelligence (Central 

Excise and Customs), New Delhi. 

12. Director (Marine), Bombay. 

13. Director (Communications), New Delhi. 

14. Director of Training (Customs & Central Excise). 

New Delhi. 

15. Collector of Central Excise, Jaipui. 

16. Collector of Central Excise, Bhubaneshwar. 

17. Commissioners of Income Tax. 

18. Director of Inspection (Income Tax). 

19. Director of Inspection (Investigation). 

20. Director of Inspection (Research, Statistics and 

Publication). 

21. Director of O and M Services (Income Tax), 


22. Director of Training, Indian Revenue Services (Direct 

Taxes) Staff College, Nagpur. 

23. O. S. D. (Competent Authorities), New Delhi, Bom- 

bay & Madras. 

24. Administrator, R. F. A. Unit, New Delhi. 

25. The Chief Controller, Government Opium and Alka- 

loid Factories, New Delhi. 

26. Officers on Special Duty appointed to perform func- 

tions under the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange 
Manipulators (Foreiture of Property) Act, 1976, New 
Delhi, Bombay and Madras, 

27. Directors of Gems and Icwellery Museum, New Delhi. 

28. Chairman, Settlement Commission (Income Tax and 
Wealth Tax). 

29. Director (0 and M Services), Customs & Central 

Excise. 

30. Director (Anti Smuggling), Customs and Central Ex- 

cise. 

31. Member, Appellate Tribunal for Forfeited Property. 

32. Member-Secretary of the Indirect Taxes Enquiry Com- 

mittee. 

MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

1. Director, Intelligence Bureau. 

2. Director, S. V. B. P, National Academy, Hyderabad. 

3. Registrar General and Ex-Officio Census Commissioner 

for India. 

4. Director General, Central Reserve Police Force. 

5. Commissioner for Linguistic Minorities, Allahabad. 

6. Director of Coordination (P. W.). 

7. Director General Civil Defence. 

8. I. G. of Police, I. T. B. P. 

9. I. G. Assam Rifles. 

10. Director General, Border Security Force. 

1 1 . Sector Commanders of B. S. F. 

12. I. G„ C. R. P. F., Sectors I, II, III and IV. 

13. Director, Bureau of Police Research and Development. 

14. Director, Central Industrial Security Force. 

15. Director General, Backward Classes Welfare. 

16. Commissioner for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 

Tribes. 

17. Secretary, Northern Eastern Council. 

18. Director, Institute of Criminology and Forensic Scien- 

ce. 

19. General Manager, Tear Smoke Unit. 

20. Director, Institute of Criminology and Forensic 

Sciences, New Delhi. 

21. Chief Controller of Accounts. 

UNION TERRITORIES 

(a) Andaman and Nicobar Islands : 

1. Chief Controller of Forests. 

2. Chief Secretary. 

3. Development Commissioner, 

4. Deputy Commissioner, Pori Blair. 

5. Principal Engineer, Public Works Department. 

6. Finance Sccretnry-cum-Chicf Pay and Accounts Officer. 

7. Deputy Commissioner, Nicobar Islands. 

(b) Goa, Daman and Diu : 

1. Chief Secretary. 

2. Director Accounts, 

3. Collector of Daman. 

4. Development Commissioner. 

5. Collector of Goa, 

6. Secretary, Industries and Labour. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 


1998 


7. Judicial Commissioner. 

8. Secretary to the IT. Governor. 

9. Chief Electrical Engineer. 

10. Principal Engineer, Public Works Department. 

11. Director of Education. 

12. Revenue Secretary. 

(c) Dadra and Nagar Haveli : 

1. Collector, Dadra and Nagar Haveli. 

(d) Chandigarh : 

1. Collector, Dadra and Nagar Haveli 

2. Director, Post Graduate Institute. 

3. The Professor, Punjab Engineering College and Ex- 
Officio Director of Technical Education. 

4. Controller of Printing and Stationery. 

(e) Delhi : 

1. Inspector General of Police. 

(f) Pondicherry ; 

1. Chief Secretary. 

(g) Arunachal Pradesh : 

1. Chief Secretary. 

2. Chief Conservator of Forests, Ttanagai. 

3. Development Commissioner. 

4. Director of Agriculture. 

5. Director of Supply and Transport. 

6. Direcor of Health Services. 

7. Director of Education. 

8. Director of Animal Husbandry and Vaterinary. 

9. Inspector General of Police. 

10. Chief Engineer and Ex-Officio Secretary (PWD). 

(h) Mizoram : 

1. Chief Secretary. 

DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL AND ADMINISTRA- 
TIVE REFORMS 

1. Director, Lai Bahadur Shastri Academy of Adminis- 

tration, Mussoorie. 

2. Director, Central Bureau of Investigation. 

3. Director, Institute of Secretariat Training and Manage- 

ment (Training Wing). 

4. Chairman, Subordinate Service Commission. 

5. Central Vigilance Commission. 

6. Director, Enforcement Directorate. 

7. Director, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence. 

MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE 

(A) Department of Health : 

1. Director General Health Services. 

MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND CIVIL SUPPLIES 
Department of Industrial Development : 

1. D.G.T.D., New Delhi 

2. Chief Inspector of Explosives India. 

3. Controller General of Patents, Design and Trade Marks' 

4. D.G., S.SJ., New Delhi. 

5. Salt Commissioner. 

6. Director, Enforcement Directorate. 

7. Chairman, B.I.C.P., New Delhi. 

8. Chairman, Forward Marketing Commision, Bombay. 

MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

1. Director General, All India Radio, 

2. Principal, Information Officer. 

3. Chief Producer, Films Division, Bombay. 

4. Director, Publications Division. 


[Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 


5. Director, Advertising and Visual Publicity. 

6. Director of Field Publicity, 

7. Registrar of News Papers for India. 

8. Director, Song and Drama Division. 

9 Chairman, Central Board of Film Censors, Bombay. 

10. Director for Films, New Delhi. 

11. Director, Research & Reference Division. 

12. Principal Account Officer (Controller of Accounts). 

MINISTRY OE LAW, JUSTICE AND 
COMPANY AFFAIRS 

(A) Legislative Department : 

1 . Chief Election Commissioner. 

(B) Department of Company Affairs ; 

1 . Chairman, Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Prac- 

tices Commission. 

2. Regional Directors, Company Taw Board, Bombay 

Madras. Kanpur and Calcutta. 

3. Member Secretary High Powered Expert Com- 

mittee. 

(C) Department of Legal Affairs : 

1. President, Income-tax Appellate Tribunal. 

MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

1. Director of Employment Exchanges, Directorate Gen- 

eral of Employment and Training and also in res- 
pect of Vocational Rehabilitation Centre for Physi- 
cally Handicapped, Ahmedabnd. 

2. Director of Training ; 

(i) Directorate General of Employment and Training 
(in respect of the Central Training Institute Cal- 
cutta[Madras|Bihar|Hyderabad|Ludhiana|Kanpur New 
Delhi. 

(ii) Central Staff Training and Research Institute, 
Calcutta. 

(iii) Advanced Training Institute, Madras. 

(iv) Foreman, Training Institute, Bangalore (under 
his control). 

(v) National Vocational Training Institute, New Delhi. 

Bombay. 

(vi) National Vocational Training Institute, New Delhi. 

3. Chief Labour Commissioner, New Delhi (Central). 

4. Director General, Factory Advice Service and Labour 

Institutes. 

5. Director, Labour Bureau, Simla, 

6. Director General of Mines Safety, Dhanbad. 

7. Coal Mines Welfare Commissioner, Dhanbad. 

8. Welfare Commissioner, Mica Mines Labour Welfare 

Fund, Dhanbad. 

9. The Mica Mines Welfare Commissioner, Bhilwara for 

the Office of the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Orga- 
nisation, Rajasthan, 

10. The Mica Mines Welfare Commissioner, Ncllore, for 

the Office of the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Orga- 
nisation, Andhra Pradesh. 

11. The Iron Ore Mines Welfare Commissioner, Andhra 

Pradesh for the Office of the Iron Ore Mines Labour 
Welfare Organisation, Andhra Pradesh, 

12. The Tron Ore Mines Welfare Commissioner, Bihar 

and Orissa, for the Office of the Iron Ore Mines 
Labour Welfare Organisation for Bihar and Orissa, 
Barbil (Distt. Keonjhar, Orissa), 

13. The Iron Ore Mines Welfare Commissioner, Madhya 

Pradesh for the Office of the Iron Ore Mines Labour 
Welfare Organisation, Madhya Pradesh. 



furq- 1[ — v«? 3 (ii)] vta Tr TUfTT : *=rrf 


14. The Iron Ore Mines Welfare Commissioner, Goa, 

Dftrrtftd and Din for the Office of fhc lion Ore Mines 
Labour Welfare Organisation, Goa, Daman and Din, 
Panaji. 

15. The Iron Ore Mines Welfare Commissioner. Karna- 

taka for the Office of the Iron Ore Mines Labour 
Welfare Organisation, Karnataka, Bangalore. 

16. The Iron Ore Mines Welfare Commissioner, Maha- 

rashtra for the Office of the Iron Ore Mines Labour 
Welfare Organisation, Maharashtra, Nagpur. 

17. Director of Employment Exchanges, Directorate Gene- 

ral of Employment and Training in respect of the 
following Offices : — 

(i) Vocational Rehabilitation Centre for Physically 

Handicapped, Kurla, Bombay-70/Hyderabad-7. 

(ii) Office of the Employment Liaison Officer for Re- 
habilitation of Hast Pakistan Migrants, Mans 
Camp, Raipur, Madhya Pradesh. 

(iii) Office of the Officer on Special Duty, Special 
Cell, Fnrrakka WiiTage Project, Calcutta (West 
Bengal). 

(iv) Office of the Sub-Regionar Emplovment Officer, 
Coaching-cum-Guldance Centre for Scheduled 

Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Del hi /Kanpur (UP), 
Jabalpur (MP), Madras (Tamil Nadu). 

18. Member-Secretary of the Expert Committee on Un- 

employment. 

19. Director of Employment Exchange, Director General 

of Employment and Training in respect of the Cen- 
tral Institute for Research and Training in Employ- 
ment Service, Pusa. New Delhi. 

MINISTRY OF PLANNING 

Department of Statistics : 

1. Director, Central Statistical Organisation. New Delhi. 

2. Director, Computor Centre, New' Delhi. 

3. Director, Field Operations Division, National Sample 

Survey Organisation, New Delhi. 

4. Director, Survey Design and Research Division. 
MINISTRY OF SUPPLY AND REHABILITATION 

(A) Department of Rehabilitation : 

1. Chief Administrator, Dandakaranya Project. 

2. Chief Pay and Accounts Officer (Rehabilitation). 

3. Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer, Danda- 

karanya Project. 

4. Chief Settlement Commissioner. 

5. Chief Development-cum-Rehabilitation Commissioner, 

Andaman A- Nicobar Islands, Port Blair. 

6. Chief Commandant Mana Group of Transit Centres, 

Mana, Raipur (MP), 

7. Chief Mechanical Engineer, Rehabilitation, Jcypore, 

Dfstt. Koraput (Orissa). 

8. Chief Executive, Chhamb Displaced Persons, Rehabi- 

litation Authority, Jammu. 

(B) Department of Supply : 

1. Director General Supplies and Disposals. 

2. Chief Pay and Accounts Officer. 

3. Director, National Test House, Calcutta. 

MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPORT 

1. Director General of Shipping, Bombay. 

2. Director Genera! of Light Houses and Lightships 
385 GI/78 — 7 


22, l‘)7?,/WPTTf 31, 1900 1999 

3. Government Director on the Board of Directors of 

Indian Shipping Companies- Bombay. 

4. Chairman, Inter States Transport Commission 

5. Principal Mercantile Marine Department, Bombay, 

Calcutta and Madras. 

6. Chief Engineer, Andaman, Lakshadweep Harbour 

Works. 

7. Chief Engineer-cum-Administrator of the Directorate 

of Inland Water Transport 

8. Chief Engineer and Administrator, Mangalore Port, 

9. Chief Engineer and Administrator. Port of New 

Tuticorin. 

MINISTRY OF STEEL AND MINES 

(A) Department of Mines : 

1. Director General, Geological Survey of India. 

2. Controller, Indian Bureau of Mines, Nagpur. 

(B) Department of Steel : 

I. Iron and Steel Controller, Calcutta. 

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE and TECHNOLOGY 

1. Surveyor General, Survey of India, Dehradun. 

2. Director, Zoological Survey of India, Calcutta. 

3. Director, Botanical Survey of India. 

4. Director, National Atlas Organisation, Calcutta. 

MINISTRY OF TOURISM and CIVIL AVIATION 

1. Director General of Tourism. 

2. Director General of Civil Aviation. 

3. Director General of Observatories. 

4. C.R.S., Lucknow. 

5. Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety, Calcutta. 

6. A.C.R.S., Central Circle, Bombay, 

7. A C.R.S., North-Eastern Circle, Gorakhpur. 

8. A.C.R.S., Western Circle, Bombay, 

9. A.C.R.S., Eastern Circle, Calcutta. 

10. A.C.R.S., Northern Circle, Lucknow. 

11. A.C.R.S., Southern Circle, Bangalore. 

MINISTRY OF WORKS and HOUSING 

1. Enginecr-in-Chief, C.P.W.D. 

2. Director of Printing, 

3. Controller of Stationery. 

4. Controller of Publication. 

5. Director of Estates. 

6. Director National Buildings Organisation. 

7. Chairman, Town and Country Pfenning Organisation. 

8. Adviser, Public Health and Environmental Engineering 

Organisation. 



2000 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part 11— Shc. 3fii)] 


SCHEDULE II 

POWERS TO CREATE PERMANENT POSTS 
(See rule 13) 


Note : — The powers of subordinate authorities for creation of 
permanent unclassified posts are regulated by separate 
orders. 


Authority Class of posts which may be 

created 


Department of the Central Government : 

(1) Department of Parliamen- Posts in Group A Service : 
tary Affairs and Vice- (a) Secretariat posts not above 
President's Secretariat. the rank of Under Secre- 

tary; and 

(b) Other posts carrying pres- 
cribed scale the maximum 
of which does not exceed 
Rs. 1,600/- per mensem. 

(c) Posts in Group B, C and 
D Services. 

(ii) Other Departments Posts in Group A Services on 

pay less than Rs. 2750 per 
mensem in the prescribed 
scale or Rs. 3000 (if the post 
carries a pre-1931 scale). 

Note ; Where a post is sanc- 
tioned on a time scale the 
maximum of the time scale 
should be taken as pay for 
the purpose of this entry. 

Posts in Groups B, C and D 
Services. 

Administrators ; 

(i) Administrators of Delhi; Posts in Groups B, C and 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli; D Services. 

Goa, Daman and Diu; 

Pondicherry ; Chandi- 
garh; and Mizoram. 

(ii) Other Administrators (ex- Posts in Groups B, C and D 

eluding Administrator, Services. 

Lakshadweep Islands). 

(iii) Administrator, Laksha- Posts in Group D Service, 
dweep Islands. 

Heads of Departments Posts in Groups C and D Ser- 

vices. 


SCHEDULE 111 

POWERS TO CREATE TEMPORARY POSTS 
(See rule 13) 


Note : The powers of subordinate authorities for creation of 
temporaty unclassified posts are regulated by separate orders. 


Authority 

Class of posts which may 
be created and the limit 
of pay upto which a post 
may be sanctioned 

Period for 
which the posts 
may be 
sanctioned 

1 

2 

3 


Department of the 
Central Government : 

(i) Department of Posts in Group A Sevices: ") 

Parliamentary (a) Secretariat posts not | Any specified 
Affairs and Vice- above the rank of Un- | period. 
President's der Secretary; and | 

Secretariat (b) Other posts carrying | 
prescribed scale the V 
maximum of which | 
does not exceed Rs. j 
1600/- per mensem. 

Posts in Groups B, C, | 
and D Services. ’] 


1 

2 

3 

(ii) Other Depart- 

Posts in Group A Ser- 

Any specified 

ments. 

vices on pay less than 
Rs. 2750 per mensem 
in the prescribed scale 
or Rs. 3000 (if the post 
carries a pre-1931 scale). 

Note : Where a post 
is sanctioned on a time 
scale the maximum of 
the time scale should 
be taken as pay for the 
purpose of this entry. 

period. 


Posts in Group B, Group 

Any specified 


C and Group D Ser- 
vices other than posts 
in the Finance Branch 
of the Department. 

period. 

Administrators : 

(i) Arunachal 

Posts in Group A Ser- 

For any sped- 

Pradesh; Delhi; 

vice, the maximum of 

fied period. 

Goa, Daman and 

whose scales of pay 


Diu; Mizoram; 

does not exceed Rs. 


and Pondicher- 

2000/- p.m. and to 


ry. 

which the Administra- 
tor is the appointing 
authority. 



Posts in Group B, Group 

For any spcci- 


C, and Group D Ser- 
vices. 

fied period. 

(ii) Chandigarh; 

Posts in Group A Ser- 

Initially for 

and Dadra and 

vice. 

any period 

Nagar Haveli. 


not exceeding 
six months 
with power 
to extend 

the post by 
not more than 
a further per- 
iod of six 
months. 


Posts in Group B, Group 

For any sped- 


C and Group D Ser- 
vice. 

fied period. 

(iii) Andaman and 

Posts in Group B, Group 

For any sped- 

Nicobar Islands. 

C and Group D Ser* 
vice. 

fled period , 

(iv) Lakshadweep 

Posts in Group C and 

For any speci- 


Group D Service. 

fied period. 

Heads of Depart- 

Posts in Group B, Group 

For any speci- 

ments. 

C and Group D Ser- 
vice. 

fied period . 


Explanation : In this Schedule, “any specified period" means : — 

(a) in the case where the authority specified in column 1 
of the Schedule has power to create a temporary post 
specified in column 2 of the said Schedule but has no 
power to create such post permanently, a period not 
exceeding two years; and 

(b) in any other case, any stated period, 



RTTff ¥T TIW : 22, 1 978/%^ 3 1, 1900 


rptII— wro 3 ( ii ) ] 

SCHEDULE IV 

POWERS OF APPROPRIATION AND RE-APPROPRIA- 
TION 

(Sec rule 13) 

Authority Extent of power 


Explanation : The powers delegated to the Departments of the 
Central Government are to be exercised by the 
issue of formal sanctions in the name of the Pre- 
sident, such sanctions being authenticated by the 
officers authorised to do so under article 77 of 
the Constitution, 

The Under Secretaries in the Departments of the Central 


Appropriation Re-appropria- 
tion 


Departments of the Central 

Full powers 

Full powers 

Government. 

subject to 

subject to 


rule 10. 

rule 10. 

Administrators 

Full powers 

Full powers 


subject to 

subject to 


rule 10. 

rule 10. 

Heads of Departments 

Full powers 

Full powers 


subject to 

subject to 


rule 10. 

rule 10. 


SCHEDULE V 

POWERS OF INCURRING CONTINGENT EXPENDI- 
TURE 

(See rule 13) 

Note Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (3) of rule 13 and 
subject also to availability of funds, the Departments 
of the Central Government, the Administrators and 
Heads of Departments specified in column 1 of the 
Table below shall, in the matter of incurring contingent 
expenditure, have the powers specified in the corres- 
ponding entry in column 2 of that Table. 

Provided that in respect of any matter specified in column 
2 of the Annexure to this Schedule (i) the Vice-President's 
Secretariat-— in so far as recurring contingent expenditure is con- 
cerned, and (ii) Heads of Departments In so far as recurring and 
non-recurring contingent expenditure is concerned shall have 
power to incur such expenditure upto the limit specified in the 
corresponding entry in column 3 of the Annexure, if any such 
limit has been specified in that column. 


TABLE 


Authority 

Extent of 

power 


Recurring 

Non-recurring 

Departments of the Central 



Government : 

(i) Vice-President s Secrc- 

Rs. 2000 per 

Full powers. 

tariat. 

annum in each 


(ii) Other Departments 

case. 

Full powers 

Full powers 

Administrators 

Full powers 

Full powers) 

Heads of Departments 

Rs. 2000 per 

Rs. 10,000 in 


annum in each 

each case. 

Heads of Offices other than 

case. 

Rs. 100 per 

Rs. 500 in each 

Under Secretaries in the 

month in each 

case. 

Departments of Central 

case. 


Government, 

Under Secretaries in the 

Rs. 100 in each 

Rs. 500 in each 

Departments of the Cen- 

case 

case. 


tral Government declared 
as Heads of Offices. 


Government who are declared as Heads of Offices under rule 
14 of these rules may sanction contingent expenditure upto 
the extent indicated in the Tab'e above without issuing formal 
sanctions in the name of the President. 

ANNEXURE 

Serial Item of Monetary limit Rules, orders, restric- 
No. expendi- upto which ex- tions, or scales subject 

of item tore penditurc can to which the expenditure 

be incurred shall be incurred 

12 3 4 

The supplies shall be ob- 
tained through the 
Director General, Sup- 
plies and Disposals or 
against the rate con- 
tract placed by him. 
The expenditure in con- 
nection with such 
remittance where it is 
not chargeable to the 
Reserve Bank of India 
shall be treated as con- 
tingent charges of the 
treasury or sub-treasury 
concerned. 

3. Cenvcyance 1. (A) For gazetted 

hire. Officers : The taxi or 

other conveyance hire 
actually paid may be 
reimbursed to a gazet- 
ted . Government ser- 
vant, who performs a 
journey in the public 
interest within a radius 
of 8 kilometers from 
his headquarters, in a 
taxi or other conve- 
yance when a staff car 
is not available and 
where no travelling al- 
lowance is admissible, 
subject to the follow- 
ing conditions : — 

(i) The place visited on 
official duty is not less 
than 1 . 6 kilometers 
by the shortest route 
from the office of the 
Government servant 
concerned. 

(li) If more than one offi- 
cers are required to 
proceed to a particular 
place on official duty, 
they should share the 


1 . Bicycle Full powers 


2. Charges for 
remittance 
of treasure. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)A 


taxi or other eonveyanc 
as far as possible. 

(iii) The controlling offi- 
cer shall certify that 
the staff car could not 
be made available for 
the journey performed 
by the gazetted Govern- 
ment servant concern- 
ed. 

Note : Heads of Depart- 
ments may sanction to 
themselves the reim- 
bursement of taxi or 
other conveyance char- 
ges subject to the con- 
ditions mentioned 
above. 

(B) ForNon-Gazetted 
Officers : 

Conveyance hire may be 
reimbursed to a non- 
gazetted Government 
servant who (i) is des- 
patched on duty to a 
place at some distance 
from his office, if the 
Government servant 
concerned is not entitl- 
ed to draw travelling 
allowance under the 
ordinary rules for the 
journey, or (ii) is sum- 
moned to office outside 
the ordinary hours of 
duty by special order, 
of a gazetted officer. 

2. For Journey during 
halts exceeding ten 
days during tours : 

Subject to the general 
conditions in paragraph 
1 above, the actual taxi 
hire or other conve- 
yance hire incurred, 
(limited to the amount 
of daily allowance ad- 
missible to his grade) 
may be reimbursed to 
a Government servant 
on tour, when he moves 
out on some casual 
duty from the place 
which is regarded as 
his temporary head- 
quarters under S.R. 
74(a) : 

Provided that no such 
reimbursement is per- 
missible in cases where 
the Government ser- 
vant is permitted, un- 
der SR 73, to draw dai- 
ly allowance at full or 
reduced rates after his 
continuous halt of ten 


days at the temporary 
hcadquarlers. 

3. For Casual Depart- 
mental Use : Conve- 
yance may be hired 
for casual departmental 
use, e.g,, when some 
material/equipmcnt has 
to be transferred from 
one place lo another 
and hire charges paid 
there for. However, a 
taxi may be hired only 
in urgent cases, 

4. For providing trans- 
port facilitis to State 
Guests : 

Taxis may be hired for 
the use of State guests 
when staff cars arc not 
adequate to meet the 
requirements or staff 
cars are not in working 
order. 

5. For Intqr-Statc/Inter- 
national Conferences : 

Taxis may be hired for 
use in connection with 
Inter-State / Inter- 
national Conference 
when staff cars are 
no I adequate to 
meet the require- 
ments. Since the 

use of taxis on such 
occasion is likely 

to extend over a 
period of time, 

some general proee- 
dure/forms may be 
prescribed by a 
Department of the 
Central Government 
in consultation with 
the internal Financial 
Adviser on tho merits 
of each case as and 
when such occasions 
arise so as to ensure 
proper use of the 
hired vehifcles. Such 
an arrangement can 
be made by a Head 
of Department also 
upto tho monetary 
limit indicated in 
the Table, when 
staff cars are not 
adequate to meet 

the requirements. 

GENERAL NOTES: 

(i) The total amount 
of taxi hire or 
other conveyance 



2003 


[urn II — wn 3 ( ii)J fiCt Tt crsrca : ararf 25 

12 3 4 

hire reimbursed to 
11 Government ser- 
vant whether gazet- 
ted or non-gazet- 
ted on the basis 
mentioned in para- 
graph 1 above in 
any one month 
shall not exceed 
Rs. 50/-. 

(ii) The taxi or other 
conveyance hire 
should not be reim- 
bursed in respect 
of a journey, if 
the non-gazetted 
Government ser- 
vant concerned is 
granted any com- 
pensatory leave or 
is otherwise enti- 
tled to receive 
any special remune- 
ration for the pur- 
pose of the duty 
which necessitated 
the journey. How- 
ever, where such 
a Government ser- 
vant has been re- 
called from his 
residence to per- 
form overtime 
work, the compe- 
tent authority may 
allow' conveyance 
charges to hint in 
addition to the 
overtime allowance 
admissible to him. 

(iii) The reimbursement 
of taxi or other 
conveyance hire 
should be made 
in all cases speci- 
fied above in accor- 
dance with the 
scheduled scale of 
charges for the 
conveyance used. 

(iv) The power to 
sanction reimburse- 
ment of taxi or 
other conveyance 
charges to a gazet- 
ted Government 
servant shall vest 
in the Ministries/ 
Departments of the 
Government of 
India, Heads of 
Departments and 
Heads of Offices. 

(vj The conveyance hire 
reimbursable shall 


197H/<HT<CTS 31, 1900 


2 3 4 


be the fare by bus, 
tram, local train 
or a combination 
of them, if the 
places to be visited 
are connected by 
any of these pub- 
lic conveyances or 
a combination of 
them, as the case 
may be. If, on 
such routes, any 
other conveyance 
is hired, the hiring 
charges may be 
reimbursed on the 
certificate of the 
Head of a Depart- 
ment in the case 
of gazetted officer 
to the effect that 
in the interests 
of public service 
or due to the 
urgency of the work 
it was necessary 
for the officer to 
hire such a conve- 
yance. Such reim- 
bursement may be 
made in respect of 
a non-gazetted Go- 
vernment servant 
by a Head of 
Office or by any 
authority authori- 
sed to do so by a 
Department of the 
Central Govern- 
ment. 

(vi) If a Govcrnmcnl 
servant is called 
to duty between 
9 P.M. and 6. A.M. 
or is detained 
in office beyond 
9 P.M. and has to 
return home between 
9 P.M. and 6. A.M. 
when ordinary means 
of conveyance aro 
not available aelual 
taxi or other con- 
veyance hire may 
bo reimbursed to 
him provided ho 
is not in receipt 
of any remuneration 
for prolonged de- 
tention in office 
and is not in 
possession of his 
own conveyance or 
is not able to use 
his conveyance and 



2004 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part IT-Sec. 3(H)] 


1 2 3 


4 


2 3 


4 


4. Electric, Full powers, 

gas and water 

charges. 

5 . Fixtures Full powers, 

and 

furniture, 

purchase 

and 

repairs. 

6. Freight and 
dcmurrage/- 
wharfagc 
charges : 

(i) Freight Full powers, 
charges. 


(ii) Demur- Full powers, 
rage 

wharfage 

charges. 


subject also to the 
condition that a 
certificate from the 
Heads of Depart- 
ment in th case of 
gazetted officer and 
Head of office in 
the case of non- 
gazetted Government 
servant is forth- 
coming to the 
effect that the 
officer had to be 
called/detained after 
9 P.M. in the inte- 
rest of public ser- 
vice. 


The exercise of this 
power shall be sub- 
ject to such condi- 
tions and scales as 
may be prescribed 
by the Ministry of 
Works and Housing. 


Air lifting of stores 
should be resorted 
to only in rare cases 
of extreme urgency, 
In order to ensure 
that this condition 
is not violated a 
report of all cases 
of air lifting stores 
exceeding Rs. 250/- 
sanctioncd by subor- 
dinate authorities, 
including a Head of 
Department, other 
than the Depart 
ments of the Central 
Government, should 
be submitted by them 
periodically to the 
next higher adminis- 
trative authority. 

Sanction for air 
lifting should be 
accorded by the De- 
partments of the 
Central Government 
only in consulta- 

tion with their Inter- 
nal Financial Advi- 
sers. 

Each case exceeding 

Rs. 250/- should be 

reported to Minis- 
try Department con- 
cerned. 


7. Hire of Full powers. 

Office 
furniture, 
electric 
fans, 
heaters, 
coolers, 
clocks and 
call bells. 


8. Land. 


At places within an 
area in which the 
Central Public Works 
Department operates, 
that Department is 
responsible for sup- 
plying clcclric fans 
(other than tabic 
fans) required for 
use in any office 
or department and 
power to h're such 
articles may be ex- 
ercised by subord i- 
nate authorities only 
in cases where the 
Central Public Works 
Department is un- 
able to supply them. 

Tn all cases, except 
those mentioned be- 
low, the land re- 
quired for Govern- 
ment use shall be 
acquired with the 
previous consent of 
the Ministry of 
Works and Housing 
or in accordance 
with such orders 
as that Ministry 
may issue, from time 
to time: 

(a) The Ministry of 

Tourism and Civil 
Aviation or 

the Department 
of Communications 
may acquire land 
required for works 
under its control. 

(b) An Administrator 
may acquire land, 
provided that the 
cost thereof is 
included in a 
scheme and the 
total expenditure 
on the scheme is 
within the powers 
of sanction of 
the Administrator. 
Such acquisition 
shall be subject 
to the certification 
of local Public 
Works authorities 
that the require- 
ments of land and 
the price proposed 
to be paid arc 
reasonable. 





2005 



12 3 4 

(c) Where a Depart- 
ment of the Cen- 
tral Government 
have, for the 
acquisition of land 
been given a sepa- 
rate budget grant 
which is not con- 
trolled by the 
Ministry of Works 
and Housing, the 
land required by 
that Department for 
the use of Govern- 
ment may be 
acquired by them 
within the provi- 
sions approved for 
the purpose by 
the Finance Minis- 
try after obtaining 
a certificate from 
the Central Public 
Works Depart- 
ment that: 

(i) there is no 

Central Go- 
vernment land 
available for the 
purposes ; 

(ii) the amount 
payable there- 
for is reason- 
able: 

Provided that where 
the land is acquired 
through the local 
Revenue authorities, 
it shall not be neces- 
sary to obtain the 
certificate of reason- 
ableness of the price 
of land from the 
Central Public Works 
Department. 

. 9 . Legal charges: 


Fees to Full powers. 

Expenditure shall or- 

barris- 

dinarily be incurred 

ters, 

only with the pre- 

advoca- 

vious consent of 

tes, 

the Ministry of 

plea- 

Law except : 

ders, 

(a) in cases involving 

arbitra- 

a total amount 

tors and 

of R:>. 500 for a 

umpires. 

case in the High 


Court of Bombay, 
Calcutta, Madras; 
Rs. 400/- for a 
case in any other 
High Court and 
Rs. 100 for a 
case in any other 
court ; 


12 3 4 

(h) in respect of fees 
of Advocates whose 
names are borne 
on the panel app- 
roved by the Law 
Ministry for enga- 
gement in the 
High Courts of 
Calcutta and Bom- 
bay unless special 
fees exceeding fees 
admissible under 
the sanctioned sche- 
dule of fees arc 
claimed ; 

(c) in respect of fees 
of Government 
pleaders appointed 
by the Govern- 
ment of India 
in the Ministry 
of Law under cla- 
use (a) of rule 
8B of Order XXVT1 
of the First Sche- 
dule to the Code 
of Civil Procedure, 
1908 (5 of 1908) 
or of State Law 
Officers, where the 
fees payable are 
in accordance with 
the scale of fees 
fixed by the High 
Court or State 
Government or 
any law for the 
time being in 
force or are set- 
tled or determined 
by the Ministry 
of Law, as the 
case may be ; 
and 

(d) in respect of fees 
of advocates whose 
names are borne 
on a panel appro- 
ved by the Law 
Ministry for any 
courts other than 
the High Courts 
of Calcutta and 
Bombay unless 
special fees exceed- 
ing fee admis- 
sible under the 
sanctioned sche- 
dule of fees are 
claimed. 

(ii) Other (a) Lawsuits Powers for prosecution 

Legal or prosccu- or institution of 

charges. tion cases: Jaw suit vest in the 

Full powers Departments of the 
in case of Central Government 



2006 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 


1 2 

3 

4 


authorities 

or any other subordi- 


vested with 

nate authority autho- 


powers to 

rised in this behalf 


sanction the 

under any law, 


institution 

rules or orders for 


of suit or 

the time being in 


prosecution ; 
otherwise 

Rs. 2,500 in 
each case. 

force. 

(b) 

Arbitration 

Reference to arbitra- 


cases: 

tion is made in the 


Full powers 

name of the Presi- 


in case of 

dent and by officers 


authorities 

empowered to make 


vested with 

such references under 


powers to 

article 77(2) of the 


refer cases 

Constitution or hy 


to arbitra- 

any other officer 


tion; other- 

authorised in this 


wise Rs. 5,000 

behalf under any 


in each case. 

law, rules or orders 
for the time being 
in force. 

(iii) Reim- 


These powers shall be 

burse- 


exercised subject 

ment of 


to such order as the 

legal ex- 


President may issue 

penses 


from time to time. 

incurred 


NOTE: Payments in 

by Go- 


satisfaction of 

vernment 


court decrees 

servants 


or awards of 

in cases 


arbitral tri- 

arising 


bunals arc 

out of 


not legal char- 

their 


ges but are 

official 


to be treated 

duties. 


as ‘Miscel- 


10. Motor 
vehicles: 
(0 Pur- 
chase. 


laneous Ex- 
penditure' to 
be regulated 
in accordance 
with the pro- 
visions oF 
Schedule VI. 
Such payments 
relating to pub- 
lic works 

shall, how- 
ever, be trea- 
ted as works 
expenditure. 


Tn the case of pur- 
chase of vehicles 
(including motor cy- 
cles, motor boats 
and launches) other 
than those to be 
used as staff cars 
if a specific provi- 
sion has been made 
in the budget and 
has been approved 


1 


2 


3 


(ii) Mainte- bull powers, 
nance, 
upkeep 
and re- 
pairs. 


11. Municipal bull powers, 
rates and 
taxes. 


[Part II— Sec:, 3(IW 

. .- : ~ s ~ ■' .'-mt:. -.l.. i.biHi i ULt.ti— ... 

4 


by the Finance 
Ministry at t h’ 
pre-budget stage, 
Departments of the 
Ctnlral Government 
and Administrators, 
may sanction such 
purchases themsehes 
but these powers 
may not be exer- 
cised by reappro- 
prlation of funds 
from other heads. 
In all other cases 
the previous consent 
of the Finance Minis- 
try will be neces- 
sary : 

Provided that the 

Administrators ot 
Union territories 
with Legislature 

shall have power 
to sanction pur- 
chase of motor cars 
(Indian built only) 
for the use of the 
Ministers or Spea- 
kers, even when no 
specific provision for 
it has been made 
in the budget sub- 
ject to the existence 
of adequate savings 
in the budget and 
also subject to the 
condition that the 
number of cars 
purchased for the 
use of the Minis- 
ters and Speakers 
does not exceed 
the number of the 
Ministers and Spea- 
kers at any time 
and that the pur- 
chase does not re- 
late to replacement 
of any of the exis- 
ting cars. 


The expenditure shall 
be incurred in accor- 
dance with the rules 
for the payments 
of Municipal Rates 
and Taxes on Buil- 
dings contained in 
the Appendix to 
these rules. 



Opt II — w 3 ( i I ) ] 

l 2 


■fl'iTp TT JH'ra : jr itf 2?, 1 


l7K/JTTCrra 31, 1900 


2007 


3 


12. Petly works 
and repairs: 

(ij Execu- Rs. 5,000/- in 
tion of each c ise. 
petty 
works 
and 
special 
repairs 
to Go- 
vern- 
ment 
owned 
buil- 
dings, 
inclu- 
ding 
sani- 
tary 
fillings, 
water 
supply 
and 
electric 
instal- 
lations 
in such 
buil- 
dings 
and re- 
pairs 
to such 
instal- 
lations. 

(ii) Ordi- Full Powers, 
nary 
repairs 
to Go- 
vernment 
buil- 
dings, 

(iii) Repairs Rs. 5000/- per 
and annum non- 

altera- recurring and 

tions to Rs. 1000/- per 

hired annum rccur- 

and ring, 

requisi- 
tioned 
buil- 
dings. 


fn cx’rirsing thee 

p users the provi- 
sions of : a! j.s 137, 
141 and 142 of the 
General Financial 
Rules, 1963, sh.dl 

be observed. 


Such expenditure may 
be incurred only 
if the landlord re- 
fused to meet the 
charges himself and 
when the building 
is released, Govern- 
ment should have 
the right to remove 
any installation ma- 
terial added to the 
building. 

Departments of the 
Central Government 
shall have power 
to incur expenditure 
on sub-ilems (i) 
and (iii) upto the 
monetary limits indi- 
cated below: — 

(i) Rs. 5,000/- in each 
case. 

(iii) Rs. 25,000/- per 
annum non-recur- 
ring. 

Rs. 2,500/- per 
annum recurring. 


1 


3 


I . Postal and 
Telegraph 
charges; 

(i) Charges Full powers 
for the 
issue of 
letters, 
tele- 
grams 
etc. 


(!) No charges shall 
be d'awn in any 
contingent bill for 
any non-service 
stamps other than 
those required for 
letters and other 
articles sent to 
foreign countries. 
Note: 

(i) Communiea- 


lions 

from 

Government 

servants 

re- 

gat'd ing 

their 

leave, 

pay 

transfer, 

leave 

salary, income 

tax, 

fund 

subscriptions 

and 

other 

analogous mat- 

ters are 

pri- 

vate and 

not 

official 

and 

shall 

not 

therefore, 

be 

sent at 

tho 

DLlblic 

ex- 

pensc, 


Where the cost 

of an cstab- 

lishment 

is 

divided 

bet- 

ween 

two 

heads 

the 

charge for 

ser- 

vice stamps 

shall be 

divi- 

ded in 

tho 


same 

tion. 


propor- 


(2) When service sta- 
mps arc not accep- 
ted in payment 
of telegrams des- 
patched on public 
service, cash pay- 
ment should be 
made by availing 
of the ‘Credit 
Account System’ 
according to which 
the telegrams may 
be booked without 
prepayment of 
telegraph charges 
and the accounts 
settled as and when 
the bills are pre- 
sented by the 


335 Gr/78— 8 



2003 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec, 3(ii)]„ 


1 2 3 


(ii) Com- 
mission 
on 

money 

orders. 


4 

Posts and Tele- 
graph Offices and 
drawn through con- 
tingent bills. li 
for any reason, 
the ‘Credit Account 
System' cannot be 
availed of, the 
expenditure should 
be incurred out 
of permanent ad- 
vance, which will 
be recouped accor- 
ding to the nor- 
mal procedure. 

Note: Foreign State 
telegrams and inland 
telegrams bearing pri- 
ority indications may 
bo issued only by 
an authority em- 
powered to do so 
under the rules 
issued by the Direc- 
tor General, Posts 
and Telegraphs. 

Charges of remittances 
of money by postal 
money order in 
payment of Govern- 
ment dues shall 
ordinarily be borne 
by the payee and 
not by Government 
vide Treasury Rule 
197. Cases in which 
and the conditions 
under which the 
cost of such remit- 
tance may be borne 
by Government are 
indicated below: — 

(a) Remittances of 
pay, allowances, 
etc. Pay, travel- 
ling and other 
allowances, and 
contingent charges 
of non gazetted 
Government ser- 
vants employed in 
outlying stations 
may be remitted 
by money order 
at Government ex- 
pense, when the 
stations arc at a 
distance of more 
than 8 kilometers 
from the nearest 
Treasury or from 
the remitting office 
at which such 
charges are drawn. 


1 2 3 


14. Printing Full powers 
and where the 

Binding. printing is 

executed 
through or 
with the 
approval of 
the Director 
of Printing. 


4 

In case where a 
Government ser- 
vant belonging to 
Group D proceed 
on leave excee- 
ding one month, 
the net leave sa- 
lary due to him 
may, on his ex- 
press request, be 
remitted to him 
by money order 
at Government 
expense. 

(b) Remittances of 
scholarships — The 
remittance at Go- 
vernment expense 
of scholarships will 
require the sanc- 
tion of an autho- 
rity not lower 
than the Head of 
Office. 

(c) Remittance of 
money due to 
contractors sup- 
pliers etc. — Where 
the remittance of 
such charges by 
money order is 
unavoidable and is 
considered neces- 
sary in the interest 
of public service 
the cost for which 
remittance may be 
debited to Govern- 
ment with the 
special sanction of 
an authority not 
lower than the 
Hoad of Office. 

1 . The expenditure 
shall be incurred 
subject to the 
provisions of the 
rules for printing 
and binding and 
any other orders 
that the adminis- 
trative Ministry of 
the Directorate of 
Printing may lay 
down from time 
to time. Normally, 
the entire printing 
and binding work 
is executed through 
the Director of 
Printing who will 
raise necessary de- 
bits against the 
budget head of 
account of the 



['•TFT II — 5PJ? 3 ( i i ) ] 

1 2 3 


wwar'ra': sr^rf 2 2, i9 7H/ffprni si, i^oo 2009 


4 1 2 

department concer- 
ned for the prin- 
ting work done by 

hi in . 

Note: Ot'dinarilly, 

a Government 
Press will not 
accept any order 
for printing of 
pamphlets, publi- 
cations, booklets, 
reports, etc. if 
the number of 
copies required 
is less than 500. 

The requisite 
number of copies 
may be got 
cyclostyled by the 
Departments them- 
selves. Prin- 
ting at Private 
Presses may be 
resorted to only 
in exceptional ca- 
ses. If desired, 
printed covers 
may be got 
made and the 
pamphlets etc., 
stapled or wire 
stitched and 
trimmed by 
local arrange- 
ments through 
private Presses, 
if necessary. A 
Government Press 
will not accept 
any order for 
the printing of 
a Special Form 
if tho number 
of copies re- 
quired is less 
than 3,000 and 
in such cases, 
the Ministry/ 

Department, con- 
cerned should 
get the re- 
quisite copies 
cyclostyled or 
get them prin- 
ted through pri- 
vate presses. 

In all these 
cases, a Depart- 
ment of the 
Central Govern- 
ment shall have 
full powers with- 
out any mone- 
tary limit for 
Printing /Binding, 
at private pres- 
ses. Scrutiny of 


3 4 

printers’ bills 
and payment 
thereof shall 
be made direct 
by the Minis- 
tries/Departments 
themselves. 

2. The following autho- 
rities may get their 
emergent and un- 

foreseen petty prin- 
ting and binding 
jobs executed loc- 
ally through pri- 

vate agencies up- 
to the monetary 
limits indicated 
aguinst them, which 
shall include the 

cost of paper one 

other binding ma- 

terials : — 


(i) All Depart- 


ments. 


Rs. 5,000 

per 

annum. 


(ii) Heads of 

De- 

partments. 


Rs. 2,000 

per 

annum. 


(iiij Heads of 

Offi- 


ces. 


Rs. 1,000 per- 
annum. 

The cost of prin 
ting and binding 
job executed through 
private agencies shall 
be debited against 
the Head of ex- 
penditute on Public- 
ations. No appro- 
val of rates by the 
Director of Prin- 
ting is necessary. 

3. Where in respect 
of emergent and 
special cases the 
cost of printing 
and binding ex- 
ecuted locally thro- 
ugh private agen- 
cies exceeds the 
monetary limit 
specified in para- 
graph 2 and the 
Department of the 
Government of 

India considers it 
essential to get such 
jobs executedthrough 
agencies, such De- 
partment may, if 
the rates to be 



2010 


15. Publications 
(i) Official 
Publications. 


THE GAZETTE OE fNDlA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part 11— Snc. 3(1$ 


3 4 


paid to such pri- 

vate agencies do 
not exceed those 

admissible under 
the Schedule of 

Rates maintained 
for the time being 
by the Director of 
Printing, get the 
jobs executed thr- 
ough such private 
agencies without 
obtaining the appro- 
val of the Direc- 
tor of Printing. 

The scrutiny of 
bills and pay- 
ment to printers 
will be made direct 
by the Department 
and the Director 

of Printing shall, 
if so, required, 
render assistance 
in drawing up 
specifications and 
conditions of con- 
tracts: 

Provided that where 
is proposed to entrust 
jobs to private agencies 
in excess of (he rates 
specified in the Sche- 
dule of Rates referred 
to above, the Depart- 
ment may decido each 
case in consultation 
with its associah d 
integrated Finance. 


Full powers. (1) Priced publications 

of the Central Govern- 
ment shall be pur- 
chased in accordance 
with the provisions of 
Appendix XIII to the 
Rules for Printing and 
Binding. 

(2) The distribution of 
unpriced publications 
of the Central Govern- 
ment should be con- 
trolled by the Heads 
of Departments res- 
ponsible for their issue. 
The distribution lists 
should be vetted by 
them before the prin- 
ting is undertaken, 
In the case of Depart- 
ments of the Central 
Government the vet- 
ting should be done 
by an officer not below 


I 


2 


3 


(ii) Non-official Full powers 
Publications. 


16, Rent : 

(i) Ordinary 
office accom- 
modation : 

(a) Where the Rs. 1 5,000 per 
accommoda- annum at Bombay, 
tion is utilised Calcutta and 
entirely for the Madrsas and 

office. Rs. 1000 per men- 

sem at other places. 

(b) Where the Rs. 1,000 per 
accommoda- month at Bombay, 
tion is used Calcutta and 
partly as office Madras and 


and partly as 
residence. 

(ii) For residen- 
tial and other 
purposes. 


Rs. 750 per month 
at other places. 
Rs. 1,000 per 
annum. 


4 


the rank of a Deputy 
Secretary. 

(3) Maps produced by 
Survey of India shall 
be purchased in accor 
dance with the rules 
issued in this behalf 
by the Surveyor Gene- 
ral of India. 

Non-Official publications 
include books, news- 
papers, other periodi- 
cal publications etc. 

(I) Normally the Central 
Public Works Depart- 
ment should hire ac- 
commodation re.iuireJ 
for public purposes 
aild also enter into the 
lease deeds and pay the 
rent, The power con- 
ferred by this serial 
number is an excep- 
tion to this general 
principle and shall be 
exercised subject to 
the following condi- 
tions : — 

(a) No accommoda- 
tion may be hired 
these powers at 
Delhi, Bombay, 
Simla and Cal- 
cutta for any office 
which is entitled to 
general pool ac- 
commodation pro- 
vided in these 
placed by the 
Works and Hous- 
ing Ministry, 

(b) Where the Central 
Public Works De- 
partment opera- 
tes, it shall invari- 
ably be consulted 
as to the reason- 
ableness of the rent' 

(c) Where the Central 
Public Works De- 
partment does not 
operate, the au- 
thority hiring the 
accommodation 
should avail of the 
assistance of the 
appropriate local 
Public Works De- 
partment or Rent 
Control authority 
and obtain a certi- 
ficate of reasonab- 
leness of rent from 



t^rr IT — ■’5"* a (ii)] 


■urct «pr thru 231 1 9 7 s/wrera 3 1 , 19 0 0 


such local autho- 
rities; 

(d) when accommo- 
dation is hired by 
an authority with- 
in the limits of its 
financial powers 
the hiring will he 
arranged and paid 
for by that autho- 
rity and not by 
the Central Public 
Works Depart- 
ment ; and 

(e) where the accom- 
modation is hired 
exclusively for 
office, the area of 
the accommoda- 
tion shall not ex- 
ceed what is ad- 
missible by more 
than 10 per cent. 

(2) Private accommoda- 
tion should normally 
be hired for office pur- 
poses only. Where 
however, such accom- 
modation of the proper 
scale and according to 
requirement of the offi- 
cer concerned is not 
available or where spe- 
cial circumstances 
exist, accommodation 
maybe hired for offlee- 
cum-residcnce, resi- 
dence or other purpo- 
ses. Where accommo- 
dation is hired for 
office-c um -res i den l i al 
purposes, the residen- 
tial portion shall he 
allotted to a specific 
post and thereafter it 
shall be incumbent on 
the Government ser- 
vant holding the post 
and also his successors 
in that post to occupy 
the residential portion 
until alternative ac- 
commodation is secur- 
ed for office alone 
vide Supplementary' 
Rules 311 and 312. 
Only such accommo- 
dation as is surplus 
to office requirements 
may be set apart as 
residential accommo 
dation and in alloting 


Designation of the Officer 


Chief Enginecr/Additional 
Engineer 

Superintending Engineer 
Executive Engnccrs. 


it to any post it should 
he ensured that the 
residential accommo- 
dation is not in excess 
of whal is appropriate 
to the status of incum- 
bent of the post accord- 
ing to the prescribed 
standard subject to a 
variation upto 5 per 
cent. 

(3) The standard rent for 
the residential portion 
of the accommodation 
under Fundamental 
Rule 45-A should be 
determined on the 
plinth area basis. 

(4) Out-houses, if any, 
which form the part of 
accommodation hired 
should be utilised for 
storage of stationery, 
forms, old records or 
any other appropriate 
purposes. Where this 
is not possible these 
should be let out to 
members of Group D 
staff and rent recovered 
from them under the 
rules in force. 

(5) Accommodation shall 
not be hired for a per- 
iod exceed ing five years 
at a time, 

(6) The Ministry of 
Works and Housing 
have full powers for 
hiring accommodation 
and restrictions in the 
above paras will not 
apply to them. They 
will also be compe- 
tent to relax these res- 
trictions when other 
Ministries hire accom- 
modation. 

(7) The powers of the 
officers of Central Pub- 
lic Works Department 
for renting accommo- 
dation for their own 
Department shall be 
as follows:— 

Maximum Period of 

annual lease. 

rent. 


Rs. 

Chief 10,000 


5 years. 

3 years, 
3 years. 



2012 

1 2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, I978/ASADHA 31, 1900 Part II— Sec. 3(u)] 
3 4 1 2 3 4 


(8) The Ministry of Ex- 
tcrnal Affairs have 
powers to sanction ren- 
ting of accommoda- 
tion abroad both for 
office as well as resi- 
dential purposes upto 
Rs. 7,500/- per month 
in consultation with 
their Financial Ad- 
viser. Any case invol- 
ving lease of a building 
where rent exceeds 
Rs. 7,500 per month 
will be referred by the 
Ministry of External 
Affairs to Finance 
Ministry. In all these 
cases prior consultation 
with Ministry of Works 
and Housing and Cen- 
tral Public Works De- 
partment will not be 
necessary. 

(9) Where private accom- 
modation is hired 
wholly for resdiential 
purposes or for office- 
cum-residence purpo- 
ses, the rent payable to 
the landlord by the 
Government for the 
residence or for the 
residential portion as 
the case may be, shall 
not exceed an amount 

equivalent to the total of 
the rent recoverable 
under F.R. 45-A-IV(b) 
from an officer of the 
class for whom it is 
intended and the house 
rent allowance which 
that officer would nor- 
mally be entitled to. 
In a case where the 
rent payable for any 
such accommodation 
exceeds that amount, 
prior approval of the 
Finance Ministry shall 
be obtained. 

Note : Emoluments for 
the purpose of reco- 
very of rent and pay 
for the purpose of 
determining the house 
rent allowance shall be 
the mean of the mini- 
mum and the maxi- 
mum prescribed for 
the class. 


17. Repairs to 
and removal 
of machinery 
(where the 
expenditure is 
not of a capital 
nature). 

18. Rewards, 
fees, bonus etc. 
(other than 
fees or hono- 
raria granted 
to Government 
servants under 
the Service 
Rules). 


19, Special char- 
ges relating to 
particular 
Departments, 

20. Staff paid 
from contin- 
gencies. 


21. (a) Purchases 
stationery 
stores men- 
tioned in the 
list under 
Appendix 9 
to Compila- 
tion to the 
General 
Financial 
Rules, 1963. 


(b) Local 
purchases of 
petty 

stationery 

stores. 


Full powers. 


powers. 


1 Rs. 5,00,000 
per item on 
each occasion in 
the case of 
Chief Controller 
of Printing and 
Stationery 
(ii) Full powers 
in (he caso 
of the Master, 
Security Press, 
for purchase 
of stationery 
stores, other 
than those 
intended for 
office use, 
required in 
connection 
with security 
printing. 

Rs. 10,000 per 
annum. 


The powers of Heads of 
Departments may be 
regulated by separate 
orders to bo issued by 
the Department of the 
Central Government in 
consultation with In- 
ternal Financial Advi- 
ser. Except in cases 
where it is authorised 
by separate orders re- 
ferred to in Serial No. 
19 below. 

The powers of Heads 
of Departments in re- 
gard to such expendi- 
ture are regulated by 
sepatate orders. 

Remuneration of such 
staff shall be regulated 
in accordance with 
general or special 
orders issued by the 
President in this 
behalf. 

These powers shall be 
exercised subject to the 
general rr special ins- 
tructions contained in 
the "Rules for the 
Supply and Use of 
Stationery Stores” and 
other instructions is- 
sued by the President 
from time to time. 


(1) These powers shall be 
exercised subject to the 
instructions contained 
in the "Rules for the 
Supply and Use of 
Stationery Stores” and 
other general or special 
instructions issued by 
the President from 
time to time. 



— w (ii)] wnAwtmw: 5frtf ?.?. 


12 3 4 


(2) A Department of the 
Central Government 
shall have full powers 
to make local purcha- 
se of stationery stores 
but such expenditure 
in excess of Rs. 25, 000 
per annum small be 
authorised by them 
with the concurrence 
of the Controller of 
Stationery. 

(3) A Head of Office shall 
have power to make 
local purchase of sta- 
tionery stores upto 
Rs. 1,000/- per annum. 

(4) Subject to the provi- 
sion in paragraph (1) 
above, the Adminis- 
trators of Union 
Territories shall have 
powers to make local 
purchase of stationery 
store as detailed 
below : — 


(A) Admi- 

Rs. 10,000 

nistrators 

per annum 

of Delhi; 

but full 

Dadra 

powers 

and Nagar 

subject to 

Haveli ; 

the con- 

Goa, 

currence 

Daman 

of the 

and Diu; 

Controller 

Pondi- 

of Statio- 

cherry ; 
and 

Chandigarh 

nery. 

(b) Admi- 

Rs. 5,000 

nistrator 

per annum 

of Anda- 

but full 

man and 

powers 

Nicobar 

subject to 

Islands. 

the con- 
currence 

of the 
Controller 
of Sta- 
tionery. 

(C) Admi- 

Rs. 3,000 

nistrator 

per annum 

Lakshad- 

but full 

weep 

powers 

islands. 

subject 
to the con- 
currence of 
the Chief 
Controller 
of Printing 
and Sta- 
tionery. 


97ri/3rPTT3 31,1900 


2013 

1 2 

3 

4 

(c) Local 

Full Powers. 

To avoid the possibility 

purchase 


of counterfeiting of 

of rubber 


stamps and seals by a 

stamps and 


dealer, purchases shall 

office seals. 

22. Stores : 


be made with caution 
and from firms of 
repute only. 

(i) Stores 

Full powers, 

The sanction of a com- 

required for 


tent authority for exe- 

works. 


culing the work carries 
with it the sanction for 
incurring necessary ex- 
penditure on the pur- 
chase of stores required 
for the work. 

(ii) Other 
Stores, 
i.e., stores 
require for 
the working 
of an estab- 
lishment 
instruments, 
equipments 
and appara- 
tus. 

Full powers. 


23. Supply of 

Full powers. 

(1) Unless otherwise au- 

uniforms, 


thorised by general or 

badges and 


special order, uniforms 

other articles 


and other articles of 

of clothing 


clothing shall not be 

etc. and 


supplied to any cate- 

washing 


gory of Government 

allowance. 


servants other than 
Group D staff car dri- 
vers and despatch 
riders. 

(2) For staff employed 
in the offices of the 
Government of India, 
the scales and other 
conditions are regula- 
ted by the Ministry of 
Home Affairs’ orders 
issued from time to 
time. 


(3) For Group D staff 
employed in offices 
under the Administra- 
tors, the scales and 
conditions shall be 
regulated by rules or 
orders made by the 
Administrators con- 
cerned- The Adminis- 
trators concerned shall , 
in such rules or orders. 

(>) specify the office 
and the Group D 
staff who may bo 
supplied with 

these articles 



2014 


1 2 


24. Telephone 
charges 


25. Tents and 
camp 
furniture 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 


Part II— Sec. 



4 


1 


2 


3 


4 


Full powers 


(ii) state the frequency 
with which uni- 
forms and other 
articles may be 
supplied; and 

(iii) lay down maxi- 
mum limits for the 
cost of each 
articles . 

(4) The provisions of 
paragraphs (2) and (3) 
do not apply in cases 
where the issue of 
uniforms including the 
scale and the maximum 
limit for the cost of 
each uniform, is regu- 
lated by special orders 
issued by the President 
in respect of particular 
departments or estab- 
lishments. 

Heads of Departments 
may exercise this power 
for the provision of 
telephones in offices 
only. Where a resi- 
dential telephone has 
been sanctioned by a 
Department of the 
Central Government 
or an Administrator, 
it may be shifted from 
one residence to ano- 
ther under the order 
of the Head of a 
Department provided 
that it shall not be 
shifted to the residence 
of any officer who is 
not entitled to residen- 
tial telephone. 


26. Typewriters, Full powers 
Calculating 
machines, 
etc. 


(ii) Other Departments. 
Administrators : 


the Central Govern- 
ment or the Adminis- 
trator concerned. 

(2) The scale of camp 
furniture, is regulated 
by general or special 
order of the President, 

The expenditure on the 
purchase, hire, upkeep 
of and repairs to such 
machines shall be 
incurred subject to 
general or special order 
issued by the President 
in this behalf. 


Full powers Full powers 


Note 


SCHEDULE VI 

Powers to incur miscellaneous expenditure 
[See rule 13] 

-incurring of expenditure by subordinate autorities 
on entertainment (light refreshments), foundation 
stone laying, ceremonies and opening of buildings 
shall be subject to general instructions issued by the 
Finance Ministry. 


Authority 


Maximum limit upto 
which the expenditure 
may be sanctioned on 
each individua item 


Recurring non-recurring 


Departments of Central Government : 

(i) Department of Parliamentary 
Affairs, President’s Secretariat 
and Vice-President’s Secretariat. 


Rs. 1,000 Full powers 


(i) Administrators of Delhi, Dadra Full powers Full powers 
and Nagar Haveli; Goa, Daman 
and Diu; Pondicherry; and 
Chandigarh. 


Heads of Departments 
may also exercise this 
powers in respect of 
installation of connec- 
tions under Auto 
Inter-Communication 
Telephone System or 
any other similar sys- 
tem if this is done with 
a view to economy in 
expenditure having 
regard to the expendi- 
ture that would other- 
wise have to be incur- 
red on direct telephono 
connections. 

(1) An initial supply of 
tents shall be made 
only under the orders 
of a Department of 


(ii) Other Administrators. 
Heads of Departments. 


Rs. 1,000 Rs, 5,000 

a year 

Rs. 200 Rs. 1,000 

a year 


Note The existing limit of expenditure at formal inter- 
Departmcntal and other meetings and conferences is 
one rupee per head per meeting on light refreshments. 
Similarly the limit of expenditure in conncciion with 
laying of foundation stones and the opening ceremo- 
nies of Government undertakings and olher Govern- 
ment installations is Rs, 500 in all including expendi- 
ture of contingent nature like printing of invitations’ 
provision of shamianas, refreshments, garlands and 
photographs. 



[HT*rH-T« 3 (ii)l 'AT If •[ flN If : TTi 1 ? ? 2 , 1 9 7 8,%'Ti'ff 31 1 900 20)5 

SCHEDULE VII 1 -> 


POWERS TO WRITE OFF LOSSES 
[Sec rule 131 

Note 1 : — The powers specified in this Schedule may be exercised 
by a subordinate authority provided that — 

(a) the loss does not disclose a defect in rules or 
procedure the amendment of which requires the 
orders of higher authority or Finance Mi lislry ; 

(b) there has not been any serious negligence on the 
part of any Government servant which may call 
for disciplinary action by a higher authority. 

Note 2:- — Write off losses of cash in treasuries, whether in the 
course of remittance or out of treasury balances, are 
governed by separate rules. 

Note 3: — For the purpose of this Schedule the value of the 
stores shall be the ‘‘book value” where priced accounts 
are maintained and “replacement value” in other 
cases. 


Nature of loss 

Authority 

Monetary limit upto 
which the loss may be 
written off in each case. 

1 

2 

3 

Irrecoverable 

Departments of 

Rs. 10,00,000 for losses 

losses of 

the Central 

of stores not due to 

stores of 

Government 

theft, fraud or negli- 

public money 


gence. 


Rs. 1,00,000 for other 


Administrators : 


(i) Delhi ; Dadra 
and Nagar 
Havcli; Goa, 
Daman and Diu ; 
Pondicherry; 
Chandigarh; 
Arunachal 
Pradesh; and 
Mizoram. 


(a) Rs. 1,00,000 for 
losses of stores not 
due to theft, fraud or 
negligence. 

(b) Rs. 25,000 for other 
cases. 


(ii) Other Adminis- Rs. 25,000. 
trators. 


Loss of revenue Department of 
or irrecover- Revenue ' 
able loans 
and advances 


(a) Full powers to write 
off losses of irrecover- 
able revenue. 

(b) Rs. 25,000/- for other 
cases. 


Other Departments Rs. 25,000 
of (he Central 
Government. 

Administrators : 


(i) Delhi; Dadra Rs. 25,000. 

and Nagar 

Havcli; Goa, 

Daman and Diu; 

Pondichery ; 

Chandigarh ; 

Arunachal 
Pradesh and 
Mizoram. 

(ii) Other Admi- Rs. 10,000. 

nistrators. 


Deficiencies and Ministry of Agri- 


depreciation 
in (he value 
of stores 
(other than a 
motor vehicle 
or motor cycle} 
included in 
the stock and 
other accounts. 


cullure and 
Irrigation 
(Department of 
Food). 


(a) Losses on (i) food- 
grains (ii) sugar (iii) 
stores, e.g., gunny 
bags, connected with 
receipt, transport, so- 
rage and sale of food- 
grains and sugar — 

Rs. 25,000. 


(b) other cases — 

Rs. 25,000. 


Other Departments Rs, 25,000. 
of the Central 
Government. 


Administrators. 


Condemnation 
of motor 
vehicles and 
motor cycles. 


Departments of 
ihe Central 

Government 


Same as for irrecover- 
able losses of revenue 
and advances. 

Rs. 25,000 — This power 
may be exercised sub- 
ject to the following 
restrictions, namely ; — 
(a) the lives of various 
types of vehicles, in 
terms of distance run 
(in kilometers) and 
length of use (in years) 
whichever is reached 
later, have been fixed 
as under : — 


Type of vehicles. 

Kilometers 

Years. 

(i) Heavy Commercial motor vehi- 
cles. 

20,00,000 

10 

(ii) Motor vehicles fitted with less 
than IS H.P. (R.A.C.) 

1,20,000 

6 

(iii) Motorcycles fitted with engines 
of 3.5 H.P. (RAC) or above. 

80,000 

5 

(iv) Motor cycles fitted with engines 
of less than 3.5 H.P, (R.A.C.) 

48,000 

5 

1 2 

3 


(b) A vehicle in the Union 
territory of Delhi 
should be condemned 
only after a certificate 
has been obtained from 
the Electrical and'Me- 
chanical Officer, Civil 
Aviation Department 
through the Ministry 
of Tourism and Civil 
Aviation or the Delhi 
Transport Corpora- 
tion through the Minis- 
try of Shipping and 


385 GI/78 — 9 



2016 THE GAZETTE OF TND1A : JULY 22. 1978/ASApHA 31, 1900 Part II Sec. 3(ii)l 



Irrecoverable Heads of Depart- 
losses of stores ments other than 

or of public those who have 

money (includ- special powers 
ing loss of 
stamps). 

Loss of irreco- All Heads of 
vcrablc loans Departments 

and advances 


Loss of revenue (i) Commissioners 
of Income-tax/ 
Wealth tax/Gift 
tax/Expenditure 
tax/ Estate Duty 


(ii) Collectors of 
Customs, 
Bombay, 
Calcutta and 
Madras 


Transport to the effect 
that the vehicle is not 
lit for any further 
economical use. At 
places outside the 
Union territory of 
Delhi a certificate as 
aforesaid from a simi- 
lar technical authority 
will be necessary for 
condemning a vehicle. 

(i) Rs. 10,000 for losses 
of stoics not due to 
theft, fraud or negli- 
gence. 

(ii) Rs. 2,500 for other 
cases. 

Rs. 1,000 


Full powers to write off 
irrecoverable balances 
of income-tax/ wealth 
tax/gift tax/expenditure 
tax/estatc duty de- 
mands, subject to a 
report to the next 
higher authority. 

(a) Full powers for aban- 
donment of irrecover- 
able amounts of fines 
and penalities imposed 
under the Customs 
Act, 1962. 


(b) Other cases — Rs. 1,000. 

(iii) Collectors of (a) Full powers for aban- 
Ccntral Excise donment of irrecover- 
able amounts of lines 
and penalties imposed 
under the Customs 
Act, 1962 and the 
Central Excises and 
Salt Act, 1944. 

(b) Other cases — 

(1) arising under the 
Central Excises 
and salt Act, 1944. 
—Rs. 2,000; 


hire charges and ser- 
vice charges) in respect 
of general pool ac- 
commodation. 

(v) Presidents Rs. 1,000 

Forest Research 

Instiiute and 
Colleges. 

(vi) Collector of (a) Full powers for the 

Customs and abandonment or ir- 

Ccntral Excise, recoverable fines and 

Cochin. penalties imposed un- 

der the Customs Act, 
1962 and the Central 
Excise and Salt Act, 
1944. 

(b) Othei cades — 

(1) arising under the 
Central Excises 
and Salt Act, 
1944— Rs, 2,000; 

(2) arising under the 
Customs Act, 
1962— Rs, 1,000, 
and 

(3) cases not covered 
by (I) and (2) 
above — Rs.1,000; 

The exercise of powers in 
respect of cases of 
write off of irrecover- 
able amounts of re- 
venue (customs duty 
and excise duty) and 
abandonment of ir- 
recoverable amounts of 
fines and penalties 
arising under the Cus- 
toms Act, 1962 and 
(he Central Excises 
and Salt Act, 1944 will 
be subject to a report 
being made to the 
Accountant General 
concerned in accor- 
dance with tho provi- 
sions of rule 32 of the 
General Financial 
Rules, 1963. 


(2) arising under the 
Customs Act, 1 962 
— Rs, 1,000; and 


(vii) Chief Rs. 1,000. 

Engineer, 

C.P.W.D. 


(3) cases not covered 
by (1) and (2) 
above— Rs. 1,000. 

(iv) Director of Rs. 1,000 in case of ir- 
Estates recoverable rent dama- 

ges (including furniture 


(viii) Controller 
of the Films 
Division. 


Rs. 200 (for irrecover- 
able rentals of films 
for a period not ex- 
ceeding six months in 
each case due from 
cinema exhibitors). 




STfVT TT mvx : XtTTfe 22, 1 9 7 g/WlRtT 31, 1900 



1 2 3 


Deficiencies and (i) Heads of Rs. 1,000 

depreciation in Departments 

the value of other than those 

stores other mentioned 

than a motor below. 

vehicle or a (ii) Director, (a) l oss of crude and 

motor cycle, Indian, Vetcri- finished products sub- 

included in the nary Research ject to the limits pres- 

stoek and other Institute. cribcd from time to 

accounts, time. 

(b) other cases — Rs.1,000 

(iii) Narcotics (a) Loss of opium in 

Commissioner. vats or during manu- 

facture subject to the 
limits prescribed from 
time to time, 

(b) Other cases- - 
Rs, 1,000. 

(iv) Director, (a.) Losses of cincona 

Botanical bark due to dryage in 

Survey of India. storage tipto Rs.lOCO 

a year. 

f b) Other cases — 

Rs. 1,000. 

(v) Mint Masters (a) Lull powers in the 

and General case of losses of 
Manager, Silver bullion in the process 
Refinery, of coinage, refining or 

Calcutta. melting. 

(b) Other Cases— 

Rs. 1,000. 

(vi) Director Rs. 2,500. 

General of 

Archaeology. 

(vii) Director Rs, 5,000. 

General of 
Health Services. 

(viii) Director, Rs. 10,000. 

Indian Bureau 
of Mines. 

APPENDIX 

(See Annexurc to Schedule V, Serial No. 1 1 ) 

Rules for payment of Municipal Rates and Taxes on 
buildings 

The following rules shall govern the payment of municipal 
taxes on buildings in the occupation of Departments of the Cen- 
tral Government, or of Government servants under the ad- 
ministrative control of that Government. 

I. Taxes on buildings other than residential buildings. 

(1) If the building is in the occupation of a single De- 
partment the taxes shall be paid by that Department. 

(2) If the building is in the occupation of more than one 
Department or if the taxes arc payable in a lump sum for a 
number of buildings in a municipal area, the taxes may be 
paid, in the first instance, by any one Department 
nominated in this behalf by Governor. When one of 
the several Departments occupying a building or buildings 
assessed to Fump sum (axes is cither the Defence Department 
or a Commercial Department, a portion of the taxes calcula- 
ted pro rata in proportion to the accommodation actually 
occupied by each of the several Departments, should be 
passed on to the Defence or the Commercial. Department 
concerned. The balance thereafter remaining, if it relates to 
a single non-commercial Department occupying the rest of 


the building, shall be passed on to that Department ; if it 
relates to more than one non-commercial Department, it shall 
not be passed on. 

Note 1. — Before payment is made by a Department which 
is not in occupation of the entire building con- 
cerned, or, if payment cannot be delayed, as soon 
after payment as possible, and acceptance shall 
be obtained from every Department which is in 
occupation of any portion of it. 

Note 2. — No municipal taxes are payable on public build- 
ings situated in Cantonments, 

II. 7 'axes on buildings occupied as residences : 

(1) Except us provided in the note below this rule, taxes 
which are by local rule or custom, ordinarily leviable from 
tenants shall be paid, in respect of the term of his occupancy, 
by the occupant of the building even though he may be 
entitled to rent free quarters. 

Note. — If in any case it has been decided by competent 
authority that Ihe whole or any portion of the taxes 
should be borne by Government and not by the 
occupant of the building, the whole tax shall be 

laid in the first instance by the Department in 

administrative control of the building and the por- 
tion, if any payable by the occupant shall then be 
recovered front him. 

(2) Taxes which are, by local rule or customs, not 
leviable from tenants shall be paid by the Department in 
administrative control of the building, the portion representing 
taxes in the nature of property or house tax being treated 
as part of the cost of maintenance of such building the rest 
if any being recovered from the occupants concerned. 

III. Method of payment ; 

Municipal' taxes payable by Government on Government 
buildings shall he paid by book adjustment or in cash according 
as the municipalities concerned do or do not bank with a 
Government. Treasury. 

IV. Certificate to accompany payment : 

(1) Charges for municipal taxes in respect of buildings 
which are borne on the books of the Public Works Departmnt 
shall he supported by a certificate from the public Works 
Divisional Officer concerned in which he will stale either that 
he accepls the assesment or, if he considers any assesment to 
be excessive, tha! all means have been or are being taken to 
secure its reduction. Jn repect of other Government buildings 
the certificate shall be given by the departmental officer con- 
cerned. 

(2) If an assessment appears to be excessive, proceedings 
shall be taken to oblain redress under the ordinary Municipal 
Law. 

Recourse to Ihe special provisions of Act XI of 
1881 may, however, be bad when it has been found impossible 
to effect an amicable, though possibly arbitrary, settlement 
with the local authority of a case in which the property to he 
assessed is, from its nature, such as not to admit of the appli- 
cation of ordinary principles in assessing payment thereon of 
any particular tax. An example would be a case in which 

whereas the assessment should be on the letting value, the 
property is of such a nature that it is difficult to conceive 

of its being let or impossible to from an estimate of the rent 
which would be obtained if Government offered to let it. 

[No. F. 1(9)-E. 11(A) /74J 
S. K.. DAS, Under Secy. 



2018 THE GAZETTE OF 1NDTA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part I Src. 3 (ii^ 


sfeffcr TTWy TT7 

at Ft ■■ to u t-tt-P, U7,s 


ATA-AA 

ATo 2132-—-' fftnPTITwr AT WHA'Rr $ Pfff WpT- 

fspirr wirr | Pb ^Tfcrfwvr Tfjt Ft, fcsPr srww tr 
drl 7 ^ta-at aPtPtaa, 19 « i 7 t art 3 5 a aF ^aakt 
(o) jp tua (a) % 7A>rAr7 sftsftfr'ft T j :nrtf a^i tjRFpTAfF 
qrnr^ % m Ft ATATftff f^r*rr | i 

Ttat 

w tPt AT^mr^! ffOA 7Vfl%ra7, A$ wfs^TTT 1-4-7 7 

7:r r T-’Vr i 

;[ff 0 217 8— w ° 7o 20 : 1 / 51 / 77 -^° a° *r 11)] 
rfv 0 UAo ftpT7, 37 ApfA 

CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

New Delhi, l he 21st February, 1978 
INCOME-TAX 

S.O. 2132.— It is hereby notified for genera! information 
that the institution mentioned below has been approved by the 
Central Hoard of Direct Taxes for the purposes of clause (a; 
of sub-section (2) of Section 35D of the Income-tax Act, 1961 
in the fields of Technological consultancy and Engineering 
consultancy. 

INSTITUTION 
Adi Mountvnla & Associates, Bombay 
the approval lakes effect from 1-4-77 

[No. 2178— F. No 203/5/1 /77-l.T. A. 11] 

P. N. JH1NGON 

A# fsFtfF, 7 7rait, 19 78 
ATA-AA 

Al° *To 2133. — fETtEr AVAST AA *f>3, ATA-AA ApJpfAA, 
196l(l961 AF 43) Ap STITT 246 aF 37tnAr ( 2 ) % tsprj 
( 1 ) SITF TAFT VlPfTAf AT AAfA AAtf fff, ATABft aF TApT, Aa 7 
A7TAAA AftWAWf a7a A^A T^PlA STfff Al WFPT if 7337 ftr, Af 
PtTvT AAffT | pB pTJTpTfecT Alfoff [ETTAT 246 TF TTETFAT ( 2 ) 

A OT (a) 7 (t) FtA if fTprfTT xrRTtff 7 fAA] if 7 PbTJ 
7 isJTPirr tfrf PtaFMF p7 at7vt 7 Pres *tta-aa atatb (aTFat) 

At WAFT AAAfi ANffT: — 

(i) STITT 246 Ap OTtTRr ( 2 ) % UR (7) Apt (TT) if 

wftwfiiA PBffr a*t 7F At Avrr if etitt 246 At ta^iat 
( l) 7 UTR (7) it (u) AA (7ml: At aPrPta aa7 
grr) aTi (s) ir (it) m (4Pt 7 At ApurPra aa 7 
jtf) if PrPrf^'T n?rf srr^ur ; 

(ii) 5117-7:7: TTfETpETJT AT ETTTT 2 ( 31 ) if tPwPaA Pb<7 

PraiMr % Pms, t> (arTF ir ftrrr) Tiff *71% ft, 
At? ATTvT, T$T pTtnfTHf TRT ApTplAA 7 AtfPl pTtrffor 
pB 7 wr7 % at 7 ArPor ir Tn ff, m mTr 

143 TfF 777(77 (3) 7T KTTTT 144 T TTtfpT fTTT 77r 

TVs Prutrir m^yr tstt PraffTfr Pr'affEr vm tF 7777 
77 71 7T apf 747 rr 4T Tf74;pT7 glPf 4?F TB7 

4T tttF Ttr tFF stt^tt, Enfif ^rrr fffsrfnr 
Pfsrr rpn *ttS 7 4>7rr wF w spftt Prtrifi^ 


XtPT VF 7477 7T YT 77:17 7f7T:%7 jfTpT 4>f 73, T TT 
btw wr fr wftPB tfr TPfr $ ; 

(iii) 3777 (ii) if PtEt ^fTrpff m ErPftrqf % wff % 

rrmT if BTI7T 2 16 TF TTtTRr (l) % (7) if 

(®r) 77; (Ctfir Tfr 7 ;tA 57) if Prfirfew 

Erf Tntyr 1 

2. rrg wFa^ATr 10-7-1978 At T^fr ?ftA 1 

[fro 23 8 1---77 o *fo 2 79 / 4 2 / 7 8— Fit SF 4f ] 
rrn e ^7 0 '74 4777:, ATT rrfTT 

New Delhi, the 7th July, 1978 
INCOME-TAX 

S.O. 2133.— In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (i) 
of sub-section (2) of section 246 of the Income-tax Act, 
1961 (43 of 1961) the Central Board of Direct Taxes, having 
regard to the nature of the cases, the complexities involved and 
other relevant considerations, hereby directs that any assessed 
aggrieved by any of the following orders [other than the orders 
specified in clauses (a to (Ii) of sub-section (2) of section 246] 
shall appeal to the Commissioner of Income-lax (Appeals) 
against such order, namely : — • 

(i) an order specified in clauses (d) to (h) (both inclu- 
sive) and (1) to (o) (both inclusive) of sub-scction 
(1) of section 246 in the ease of a company men- 
tioned in clauses (d) and (e) of sub-scction (2) of 
section 246 ; 

(ii) an order against the assessce, being a person (other 
than a company) mentioned in section 2(31) of (he 
Income-tax Act, where the assessce denies his liability 
to be assessed under this Act or any order.' of assess- 
ment under sub-section (3) of section 143 or section 
144 and the assessec objects to the amount of in- 
come assessed or to the amount of tax determined or 
to the amount of loss computed or to the status under 
which he is assessed, and the amount of income so 
assessed or Ihe amount of loss so comupted exceed 
one lakh rupees ; 

(iii) nn order specified in clascs (cl) to ( 0 ) (both inclu- 
sive) of sub-section (1) of section 246 in the case of 
persons or classes of persons referred to in (ii) 
above. 

2, The above notification will take effect from 10-7-1978. 

{No. 2381— F. No. 279/42/78 -ITJ] 
S. K. BHATNAGAR, Under Secy, 


fh’fftU WT« VT?A WTTdfffWT, firyjft 

feffF, 1 1 Jrf, 19 78 

(^rr^Pr VJeA ) 

Ate WTO 2134. ^rjfFff 7377 m V[BA pEnrlWF, 1944 A 

Proq- 233 % waPr Prppr vrftBfff at snPr atP jm, P rr° rrit 
7anr, FETtir 73 ptppt vrtpB u h t § a f , fovP, vnTtr % titta vriff- 

2, UTt 3 PpTTA 16-4-77 7 TArfVTrr ^7 flfi l gtl tgPT At ttftT- 
Pwr 3 / 7 7 -PFT fAATA 14-2-77 Af, ErffA TrfftfpT TtmT 
PrPrhfTrwF tP "a=5-% aft at Pti" aVt "vgnfrT Purr”, PTtrffTff 

7 77737 ?T7T AT, TTcUSTTr fwfm ATffr J) I 

[ApTflffAr 7 a7T 2/7S-TF£/7Fo 7c 5 ( 4 ) a/2 ?fF f/7 5 

7° WTo AITTFC, TFTT^Tlf 



3 (il)] 71 J, i ft 47.1 ■ 11 1 E f 

CENTRAL EXCISE COI ELECTORATE : DELHI 
New Delhi, the 1 1th May, 1978 

CENTRAL EXCISE 

S.O. 2134. — Tn exercise of ihe powers vested ip under 
Rules 233 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944. I, M. L. Badh- 
war, Collector of Central Excise, Delhi, hereby rescind this 
Colleclorate’s Notification No. 3/77-CE dated 14-2-77 pub- 
lished in Part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India issue 
dated 16-4-77, under which the snuff manufacturers were re- 
quired to maintain ‘Raw Matcraial Account’ and ‘Khamir 
Account’ in a prescribed proforma. 

[Notification No. 2178-CE/C. No. V. (4>/2CE/75 Pt.l 
M. L. BADHWAR, Collector 


snW^r rwh 

jtitw 

ft ftcTt, 2 2 WTrf , 19 7 8 

Tttc Wo 2135,— WW ft fwif7 3W7T7 % fff T7 % fair 
t Ttt ft f 77 T 7 7 (Tfrfefef ferwr wfe ffiffw) 
% witr tffvf ft ftrer ffawr 77777 fairfa (fwfftfr fazm fffe 

ft^STf) faff, 19 64 % f777 It % 37-fff7 (2) ft ntw- 

wror % ttpi 2 , sfc 3 , (ii) 25 

TP’ 19 77 it '41771 TTTfK ft Wfi^r 77777 % wtf tfw 
Trto Wo 2172, fTifhar 25 77, 19 77 % W777 SPPrfwr ffttr 
7t| ft ; 

^ wfr srfw 7 fafft Rwfwr i?tt ft 77(777 

«ff i* wtvr ft sntnpr ft 7 T*fer ft 'fmtftr fcff * ^ ^ 

77T gSTTf 7t*t 77 t : 

^ ^ ft 5T%rf 3ET7T ft 28 t$7, 19 77 ft 3WT*ET 

fTTff 7f«ff ; 

TTk tth 7 TfT 77 *777 t ttw <m gstnrf 77 tofft? 
TTf R t ffTTC 77 fTTSTT I 


22, 197«/wTi7 31, 196(1 20]9 

*T7; Xt'7, ftfftf TTfTT, fafftT (fwfefet faTWf Htf ftflWf) 
frf fctfaf 7 , 1963 ( 19 63 fT 22) ft HPT 6 ST7T 7771 ffrT.tf 
ft srifprr grr, faffe fhtt'iTf 7f777 71 TTTTft 717% ft 77-910 
XT77t 75 717 317 77 ff 7TT7 ft f77% *4T7T7 f fftfTTT % 
fwf frjrf f T7T W7Wf 77T 77PfT7 

(1) WW^WT fPVt £ ff 77 ft iRT fatfe ft ftf ffTftfet 
t7777 XT [7 fftfr&PT % 7W7 ?VlT I 

( 2 ) 77 7 ipT7 ft fftftfe (fftfrsm) f7T7, 19 7 8 ft 77- 
WT ffttCTf ft 5TfPC ft fattSTf ft ftft 7fl7 ft ¥7 
Jf fffdfft p: ftTtff % ft ff ff7?7 77 ’gpS ifTT 7f ^ 
wr7 ft w|B>Tr; 

(3) ^7 W7f f "37177 I t f77; 77 fTffTTff ft 7f 7 

tT77 % fifT jp-qir: fqft^int f f 7 ff 7pT|-7T trfl 

£i 

(4 ) 1777^77 ®717T7 % «AtR 7f t fIT f fwifa ft 

37 7f 7ftf7'5 fTdt | f7 7f ff S7 % Ttpq fiT7fd 
(TwftT#! faWT *lt7 ftflapiT) Stfttf777, 19 6 3 
( 19 63 ft 22) 7t tJT7t 7 % wftf fWli'TTT, 

f WET, feft 77t 7117 ff 7«Tlf77 lrf^f7’ I ff fr 
ffdt Iff cm HRf ft,' 71 77T C7 itTWT ft 7777- 
7T 7 ft ff tw t 7T77 fT httpiT fVrfdi) fWWf 

tfrr ftfra^ % fcrtid Trtff ft grr f7^rr ^ 77t ffraftr- 

7f77| 1 

2. ^ fltlir 7t ftf vft 7T7 TT^f ifwitit ft '^ft, 775, 

1)7 7t7 717 Sm ff If 77 ^ 777 % 'f’lfff ^ f77fd ft tTEJ. 

T^f ^TTt 77^ Tif 77 77ff ^Tf >7rjrTf ft W7 4 ffrfftn7 
% ffaf 7 ?t I 

3. C7 wtf Sr tw i *T77 7 ?t7t«|f77T RffTT flft 7 

ff7K ft 7f T?rt 7T>7, 7?% 7 7f rf grerf gf TTttfr 

I I 

4. 7$ w^f fm* 7 7f rwr ft ftrYfar ft wttt u>rr i 


— i 


Twf gf 7WC777 f frttrffffCf 

(5t7fr<rf77r Tf w 7 f) 

[7tT ] fTU7-ihr ( ;t) tfwr] 


WfT7 ‘twr 

1 0 ( 70 7to 77T 3TT7 ( 4" — s") 


77 


7ET 


7 67° iff o 1007'ojffo ( 3 " fi") 


SOto *ffo — 757° jflo 
50 7 o Tto 7 f 7 ( 2") 


- — 3 


ttttw fwfNmtt 


t I c?fir ^ ffr ttr wffr ftrfw 77 tm Iwr 7t 
^ ^ fTW 77t ^57 77 57 , IT 7 TJfl gfift 

Tfc 


gt i f t 777 gRft«|f77T Tf ST7T 77Tttf 

‘wrffT 7 7717 ft untnfr i Tif^r 7 tff 

7f77 wniff 771 fffr, flat 777 

7 7f7 gift I 7^ ff7t^fb577 
trff 7 7 )- TJf 7 ^TTf I jT# flTTfl 

ff7T7t 77 Tff f^PT fTfstf 7?ff glTT I 
gw# 5^ 77 C 777 fT ffffC£ WfT7 
ft7T I 


few: 77 7f?7 WET ^7 ffR WfR. W f 7T7 ■ f WW7 77 5 RfttWT ft 7gi77T WJutfct ft WbTt I 

T7o 6 ( 30 )/7 6— ftofto 777 ftotjol 



2020 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II~Sec. 3 (all 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 22nd .Inly, 1978 

S.O. 2135. — Whereas Tor the development of the export 
trade of India certain proposals for subjecting Beche-de-mer 
to quality control and inspection prior to export were publish- 
ed as required by sub-rule (2) of rule 1 1 of the Export 
(Quality Control and Inspection) Rules 1964 in the Gazette 
of Inrlia-Part II Section 3-Sub-Section (ii) dated the 25th 
June, 1977 under the order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce No. S.O 2172 dated the 25th June, 
1977. 

And whereas objections and suggestions were invited within 
forty five days of the publication of the said order from all 
persons likely to be affected thereby; 

And whereas copies of (he said Gazette were made avail- 
able to the public on the 28th June, 1977; 

And whereas the objections and' suggestions received from 
the public on the said draft have been considered by the 
Central Government, 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 6 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) 
Act, 1963 (22 of 1963), the Central Government after consult- 
ing the Export Inspection Council, being of opinion, that it 


is necessary and expedient so to do for the development of the 
export trade of India, hereby — 

(1) notifies that Bcchc-de-mer shall be subject to quality 
control and inspection prior to export; 

(2) specifies 1 he type of inspection in accordance with 
the Export of Beche-dc-mer (Inspection) Rules, 197K 
as I he type of inspection which would he applied to 
such Beche-dc-mer prior to export; 

(3| recognises (he specifications as set out in Annexurc-1 
to this order as the standard specifications for Bcche- 
dc-mer; 

(4) prohibits the export in the course of international 
trade of Heehe-de-mcr unless the same is accom- 
panied by a certificate issued by any one of the 
agencies established at Bombay, Calcutta, Cochin, 
Delhi and Madras under Section 7 of the Export 
(Quality Control and Inspection) Act, 1963 (22 of 
1963) to the effect that the consignment of such 
Bechc-de-mer satisfies the conditions relating to qua- 
lity control and inspection and is exporlwotthy. 

2. Nothing in this order shall apply to the export by land, 
sett or air of samples of Bechc-de-mer to prospective buyers, 
provided such samples do not exceed 4 Kgs. in nett weight. 

3. In this order Beche-dc-mer means edible, pre-cooked, 
dried fish prepared from the species Holothuria scahra. 

4. This order shall come into force on the date of its pub- 
lication in the official gazette. 


ANNEXURE-1 

SPECIFICATIONS FOR DRIED BECHE-DE-MER 
(Holothuria seabra) 

[See sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph 1] 

SIZE GRADES COLOUR ODOUR GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS 


101 ems, and above 
(4" — 60 


76 cm . — 100 cms. 

(3" - 30 

50 cms. — 75 cms. 
(2" — 30 

Below 50 cms. (2") 


Dark Brown lo Black on Characteristic odour of Dried Bech-de-mer shall be prepared 
the dorsal side and the species and shall from the species Holothuria scahra. 

pale while in the ven- be free from any off The material shall be properly dried 

tral side. odour. and free from fungal, insect and mite 

infestation. It shall be also free from 
any visible contamination. There should 
not be too much while discharge at 
the out ends. The dried Beche-de-mer 
shall have the characteristic shape. 


Note: — A tolerance of 5% by weight of the next higher or lower size grade alongwith brokens shall be permitted. 

[No. 6(30)/76-ET&EP]. 


gtio wto 2136. — Frafar (tFiftifi Emm sftr ffirlFF) 

wfafwr 196.3 ( 1963 FT 22) g?T TTTT 17 SKI StTxt Xlftafif 

snfpr ■EifT D'L fiftt UhL-iIff Fiff «midl 

1. FfSTFT FTF FFT TT2TT ■ — (l) FT fFFFT FT FfiFd FTF %F 

* fffir ft frrfa (WAtf) Em, 197 s £1 

( 2 ) 4 Tnrra' Sr fftff Yr nrfffir Tl n^rr gpr 1 

2 , qft*TTTFi : — sf fmr if ft nr far if fnft 
wifar t U, — 

(*r) Ttfkrfm’ ?r Unfa (trEfi ftwF stYt (fIAtf) 
srftrftFF, 1993 (1963 tt 22 ) *rf*rfcr | ; 


(=s) 'FfvwrF’ % ijrfsrErirJT Ft tmr 7 ^ nurr 

tTfEt, fc?Ft fft to ifprrfirr FfFTTF'r 
if ir TTf rrg; wfFtrr | ; 

(A) ‘SftT ^ FFT’ ft ^RfrajTTt FTTH FTfr F fatT gif qf 

irta, ^ nnf fft gitnt 1 1 

3 . ffiEtfur tt othk : — UAH ft fjf wr ff 4 ftc tt 
fTCfttTF m 4FCr % fa FIT if ftrqr ^ITOjrTT fa tF £ FqT sffsr- 
fm # tmr 6 % %ufiF uttit rra fpf fafa?!?fr 3r 

m & (fa% TFF FFFTSFFr FRT fafaqF TiT FFI £) | 

4. fafftTF Ft Ffaqr : — ( 1 ) FF 7 W FT faFfa T7F FT 

fFilU+'cTf, faqfa ftar FlF TTT T^FF FT f^KF 



f-.T t-jt TT--^? 3 (ii)l ■mr^r Tr thtt* : tt'ttJ 32, 197 fl/wir? 31, 1 f>nn 

Yft srr, TrfVrrw % fsn^w ifi'rfijPT ftt trrfai t ; t bar vtTfr 


W U;ft 'TT'T’ff "PT <TftSFV ft* lift ITT Hvf Wl ft frt'7 fft ftl 

JTT^T fftfawt % rt^ '&, T7VOT ftTtft ftEr fffittr Wf uftY 

*pt»t ftftY ftY pr irfft fftftCT ft fftp PptPt fftxft 5 PJi 

■ffTT? ft fftT^PR t't i 

(2) OT-fm (1) % ar=rn^ 5 Rftft ^prr ffttrfp-wt ft 

qfrtn: % 'iftift ft ftft ?m ft ftraffftr wr ft tr ft tr 1 

for Rgft (rffm % 'mftTR ft rtrY Rrfjttr 1 

( 3 ) RR-fftRR ( 2 ) Jr fftfftfftxi rtrrt to % rto ^ift rr 

Triftroor ft fttp; % tYrr rr fftrYaTR 7Rft f%r<r fTOftr 
fftfYwrt Rfftr? airr rrr-rrr to r:rY fftp rh xrqftsft ft xpjrto 
rij ftjjft ft fft-RK Jr tort fft rr rer fftfftfftr ftr ?nwftr 
% Jf 1 

4. fft-uu-tiflf 7 4 f ; M’+- J . ,r i ftY fftiT fJm^rP 7 !' t rn ft fftp nftY 

SIRBT gpTHItr ftRT I 

( s ) faftSTO % tirtt Rfft fftfrn to RrRrsTR ifr tor fft 

fftp% fftp toY prft RR ft hro to tJtot rtto fafft ? to ftr 
xtisrrftf ft pttoft |, nr RfftTror torto to % tort frft % tor 
faro % fttro to totto toY ijr rrm-to ft tar fft tw ft 
im to <rftro RarfftYf faRTO sfr^ fnfrw’T Jr Rftfaa urn? 
ftY ^tt rtot $ rto fftuTR' toto % : 

TP 5 Sffwro to YJto rrttor r$t ?Yto | tot ^ 
tort tor frorf ftY trafa % tfap; ?,rrT rnTm-T^ ^r Jr 7W7 «p: 
?prr ^tp; nff rj^rr ^r% ’TtWi rr%r fntrfrr-7f?rf «rfY 

r 

(e) 'fff'fpPOT, nU; ^ arPprra ^— ifm rrarn PrfHT’r TYsmT 
^ rpvYJpr nrr gxr <r?;Jr % fJrtr ttftpw wsrai | nY, fnrrfnrrr 
itY.ipt vr «rurrir^*P tYtt ^rm Jr , ff ^pY»<u r % fwj 
■*fr ?«tk qr, wf’urnrpr Jr, «rr w. tt, wr nn; wi | 1 

5 . fJp>,PT "#rr — Pprtn-^nf rrrr ’tYw^t nY rr#r: tYcpt 
% fw fjjndM 50 r,<TTT_ % xratn gtr, T<f;?r: fYpup-T 
^ Yt 0.54 srfjprrr 'ft Jr 'ftrr f^ftsm % ^ Jr ?Y 1 

e. TpfW ; — fftpr 4 % '3T-fwT ( 5 ) Y? TrrfYn jptpftw 

jft Jr 'trfJniP: 1 ^ % 7frn: ft a^Yrn ^Yf stPft, g*ftr j-pr 

pft 71m >ft ^tt jtrt ?Yft % rfYn fan ft fttrp: ?»? sr'frn'n 

ft fftrr ftsV rrwK artr ftww 4^ ft *p*r afft ft Trfsrr 

apt ft ^n?r ftr '■rftr'T tp pfttrr 1 

(i) ftn^r ft, fftimr ft ftn^r ftY f^r fti^rr ft ptr 
ft *ft ftr-fft^rf rrrPT Jit rr^ppY rr^PT rftir 1 

(ii) ftp=r ftt n^fn #r ftr ?Yftr 1 

(iii) Tpfhr, rrprr fttft ft tps^ fcr ft ftftrc fftTTT ftY irnTifri 

[fto 6 ( 3 0 ) / 7 fi-fft o ffto rr«IT ffto ^-o] 

S.O. 2136 .— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act, 1963 
(22 of 1963 ), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules, namely : — 

1 . Short title and commencement — -(l)Thesc rules may be 
called the Export of Beche-de-mer (Inspection) Rules, 1978 , 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publi- 
cation in the oflidal gazette. 


2021 


2. Definitions — Jn these rules, unless the context otherwise 

requires ;-■- 

(a) ‘ Act" means the Export (Quality Control and Inspec- 

tion) Act, 1963 (22 of 1963); 

(b) ‘‘Agency” means any one of the agencies established 
at Bombay, Calcutta, Cochin, Delhi and' Madras 
under section 7 of the Act ; 

(c) “Reche-de-mcr' 1 means edible, pre-cooked, dried fish 
prepared from the species Holothuria sen bra. 

3. Basis of Inspection — Inspection of Bechc-dc-mer for 
export shall be carried out with a view to seeing that Beche- 
de-mer conforms to the specifications recognised by the Central 
Government under Section 6 of the Act (hereinafter referred 
to as the recognised specifications). 

4. Procedure of Inspection— ( 1 ) An exporter intending to 
export Bcche-de-mcr shall submit an application to the nearest 
office of the agency giving particulars of the consignment in- 
tended to be exported to enable it to examine such consign- 
ment or cause the same to be examined to see whether the 
same conforms lo the recognised specifications and he shall 
at the same time endorse a copy of such intimation for inspec- 
tion to the nearest office of the Export Inspection Council. 

(2) Every application under sub-rule (1) shall reach the 
office of agency not less (han 7 days before the anticipated 
time of despatch of the consignment from the exporters 
premises. 

(3) On receipt of the application referred to in sub-rule (2) 
the agency shall inspect the consignment of Beche-de-mer as 
per the instructions issued by the Export Inspection Council, 
in this behalf, from time to time, with a view to seeing that 
the same conforms to the requirements of the recognised spe- 
cifications. 

(4) The exporter shall provide all necessary facilities to the 
agency to enable it to carry out such inspection. 

(5) If, after inspection, the agency is satisfied that the 
consignment of Beche-dc-mer to be exported complies, with 
the requirements of the recognised specifications, tire agency 
shall within seven days of the receipt of the application issue 
a certificate declaring that the consignment of Beche-de-mer 
satisfies the conditions relating lo quality control and inspection 
and is export worthy ; 

Provided that where the agency is not so satisfied, it shall 
within the said period of seven days refuse to issue such certi- 
ficate and communicate such refusal to the exporter along 
with the reasons therefor. 

(6) The agency may exercise such supervision of the ins- 
pected consignment at any place of storage, in transit, or at 
wharves before its actual shipment, as it may consider neces- 
sary for satisfying the purpose of the compulsory pic-shipment 
inspection scheme. 

5. Inspection fee — Subject to a minima mof Rs. 50.00 for 
each consignment, a fee at the rate of 0.5 per cent of f.o.b. 
value shall be paid- by the exporter to the agency as inspection 
fee. 

6. Appeal — Any exporter aggrieved by the refusal of the 
agency to issue a certificate under sub-rule (5) of rule 4. may 
within three days of the receipt of the communication of such 
refusal by him, prefer an appeal to a panel of export, consist 
of not less than three but not more than seven persons as may 
be appointed for the purpose of the Central Government. 

(i) At least two-thirds of Ihe total membership of the 

panel of experts shall consist of non-officials, 

(ii) The quorum for the panel shall be three. 

(iii) The appeal shall be disposed of within fifteen days 
of its receipt. 


[No. 6(30) /76-El &EP.I 



2122 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 


CORRIGENDUM 

SO. 2137 — In the no:ificalion of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Commerce No. S.O. 576, dated the 25th 
Feb, 1978, published ut page 607 of the Gazette, of India Part 
II section 3 sub-section (ii) dated the 25th February, 1978, 
in sub rule (1) of rule 1, in line 2 for "Rosing”, read “Rosin”. 

No. 6(17)/74-EI&EP 

C. B, KUKRETI, Joint Director 

VlSDI 

JfToWTo 2138 .—FRF A PFlfF *414 K % PT47TF A pfF 
sUNtSt (fAf Frrot) 4ft PtoIf it PtIfrt % rPt 

A PfN 47pTTF FTFTF PprfF (qqiPiA pTFTOF Sftr prftWF) 
from, 1 964 % Ptff u A ftPftf ( 2 ) 4 ft FSwFfnT fttf 
fttor; A toPfto ftoff % nAr tfo qrr°TO° 3025 , fttIto 

24 ftfFTOT, 1977 % FTOFF FTTF % FTF-2, At 3, 

3WI (ii), FTftFT 1 TOFJTT, 1977 if TOUfAF PfN Jpr S'; 
3fPt FF% pit Ftft rfPif it FT^F FTO F^TTF 1 8 FTOFT, 
1977 F47 FtS FT F PifA TOpt TOTTpir ftS 4p FFTFTO At; 

sftt fff ttftf ffft 4tt 4 tottot, 1977 4ft ftitot 
tot faro fto to ; 

aftr ftf sTFfrr^t it toft »t toto Frittf fSt fjnSf ft 

A«fW FT4TO 5TTT fTOTT TO fFTO FTO |; 

wtr:, to PtfIf (44TpT^t fAErr sftr PrAff) wFwPttot, 

1963 ( 1 963 47T 22) At FRT 6 3TTT TOTF WpftPrf "FiT TOTTF 

TOit gp tot fttf ftftt % toPfto totto At wPfjtot f» 

VrattTo 3164, ffTtPr ll TOf^FT, 1 9 6 5 4F FfiTTOTF TOlt fir 

A^ftF retro, Prufr PttPtf FftrT it fttfiA 4ttA % topft?i 
TO ft ftp tif ?"Pt ft fA fttf % ProfF totftt Pptof % Pn 

pFT 47TFT FTFTOF7 FT FFtAtF |; 

( 1 ) rftt^fro 4RFt | fA smStFt 4F PtfPt it ^ PrAteur 

pFiFT FfTFFT; 

(2) WF<ftFl A PrFfF (PfftOT) PtFT, 1979 % TOpTTT 
Prdwr A toftt 4rt Prftrr A pir roro A tot ir 
pfPt^Fi' FTFt it At Praftt it jA pit SRiAtAt rft nr 

ftFT 

( 3 ) sTroftSt A Prtf PrafF ttPrrr A f^ff PrPrAAf A 

FT if pTFfFTOtf 5m AtfSF PrPPfFT 4ft, tot ftSvt 
% JW9 if ftq FIT FJFFF fSPraAt % fJtf tfF 
JtT, 4TFfrn ^7 frtr FTF47 NfFTF ^7 FT if rFFFT 

M 

(4) WFRfcftF WTHTT ^TIF 3,% flTdfrff ^ pTFpf 47f 

TO F47 FptPnj FTTrff ^ FF F47 fV FTF JPinifl 

(TOtPrff frorr afft PfTtsrF) jtRiPtff, 1963 
( 1963 4F 22 ) 4 ft tnrr 7 % nftF tFTftr rfrFTrrf 
if it frrt ro7 ^7 uttt tar fft ft toto to toft to 
f 5'r Pf sfFrrWi to f^ft PrfkFT it toTto to! *f?t 

cpr 4TTFT ^ FFT pFtfr F>F ^ I 

2 . to rkr if 'wrfPff 1 & rrr tot ffifI Sr firtt 
?j?47 $?ff it rr^- rrA WFFtt (Ft rrFtTOT: ir# Sr Ftr ir 
t rfr^r 1 1 


2, I978/ASADHA 31, 1900 Tart II— Sec, 3(ii)] 

3. to rrSnr fP 4 r>f f> fft fPt, fft ftfpj fff arot 
tT Fit ft Sr ft FjTi Sr rrSt -liTrFf fit Ppt ft Ptitt ft rr^jr 
F,fr fTlTt FfTTO FTT-TUt fF.Tf'F T(?F rr^p Ft F^FTT FFT p 
rfrF Fftf ?f 1 

FTpr-tr 

[^r 1 (3)?Pro] 
rFStrf ^ fTO r^TTF PfpTTF 

1 . rmfr 

1 . 1 STF'fPff 4p Filit TOjfrPtFr, FtTO, TOlfeFT FT TOT 

froft rr^rr rmift ^ FFt irrSV rrprq- 1 

1 . 2. TTFFWft F^TT FFW FTFFff FTFlft it TOrf TOFtfr I 

1 . 3. FFfTF Sr fatJF TOFF FTF TO®t FFITtir FIFlft Sr 

1 TTTTT 3i 1 I 

1.4. (47) TOF FTF, TFTFto FF1 TOF 47tS Sr I!TpT4rrT4r 
Frff it g?ir 5 JS 1 

(^) Fk FiF ITTr Prft'TFT ii iTOTT TOI FS tSPt FTOf 

F7f FTTF PfTtlT TO FTOT ^ I 

1 . 5 TOTF ^ FTtF fFFft FFiJF; TOJ Sr fT FFit f , FW4 1 
fqr J4TOT FTI3TTFF: TOJ FFTftF FT5TF Sr Ffirrtlft fl TOT Str 
PtPrfF’iF FTFT 47t FTO 47T F47F fl : 

;Ur tTfTOF JF SPff Sr FTF ^tTOT if FFTFTTOFFT TOT FF^TF 

ffTO FTFT FFfPT iT FTIP fifFT FTTOT 3fk TO FTO Ft TO 

FT'S' 4Tt FTFSt I PTO TO W4TFTF iff FFtF Fft PfTFT TOFFT TTFJ 

TO4lt BftS-tfri: Ffs Ft FfFFt FFT F?F 0.2 TO TO P5F 

FpT 4ft F5F triFT I 

2. FF1TO 

2. 1. TTTFtF 4rt FTTFrff FF? nTTtFt TOT Pt^Pr! 5[4F 

Ftqtr ir jjf; frrt TOffP i 

2 . 2 . fPror Sr ff^ if fPT ftA ftf to rorrr ton FTtrS' 
f47 TOFF TO^t ?f FNFtT TOS ipf FFT F FTO Pt^cT FF^ TOT TON 
tTO if FF I ft I pFF TO fFrnTO TO TOFT At ftN fA FT F14rfTF47 
Fit FtSrF F ftS S I 

2.3- STFftT A ^ ' >Tr<T (^rff) it. Fk 4rt? FIT ff FtS 
FFTO 1 \ftTOT FTFI if 4TO ^TO TO TOFR fpft I 

2 . 4 . STFStF At TOTTO if FfS feTFf 4F TOfF fATO TOFT | 
Ft F WT44F47 FFTOt A TOT fffFU® ftp F I ffN TOT FTOFF STpT- 
Ttift frt TOffrr I feTF FF it 1J4F ftS FlIlN FFT rftS ft F$ 
TW 47t F^F TOTS' if FF^ ftA TO%r I 

^FFAtTOT to Stott fefF A irttF At ftti i jt' 

5TF FTO pFF At 50 TOT FFFt if FF1FTT AffS Jlf At FPhlft 
FTO TO FNI A FTTOrf ftFF 4FF 47 tA FFF Atf FpT^F TOFF 
5T47F Fft ASfT I 

3 . 47N AtW 

3. !■ STFFtF FTO ?fA FTO47 TOFt At FFftFTt 4TF#t FpF- 
ritpTO fw A TOJTO ftSt TOpN I TOT FT®ft F^T Ft Atfl TO 
FTO PfFft FTFlft At ft F4TOt f, FN A ^Ffff ^ttAf TOT tfA 
FTO FNf A ^4F |lAt TOffF At TfFFAt A 4FF FTTOT A TOFTO ft I 



2023 


mm to mmrsTO^m# 22 , i97r/tott$ 31 , 1900 


[-TTT It-- 7 ?!! 3 (ii)] 

4. f’-f'I'i »i 

4 . 1 . fafarrr tott Frto ?3 sfr rbftfTORT jrmsrFTRw 

mftPTTT WTtiT TO WT ITT FTOTT TOT TOJTO SrfTOT 3RT 5TTTO 8?) 

TO TOUT I 

4 . 2 . ’Ttfenr to) STroffTf tor fwroft, ■crNrf^rTT , fer- 

7%T T^T Tm WfET % ’i’T’T *hff iT TfPT fjt, afTr TO TO o TO° 

1 06 8-1968 TO RT^ ^T^m^TT fTOTOT $ TOfUR TVS V\ 7TTT( 

T JT TO( 16 WIT TO TOTO '^TT ifFSTO TOT TOT ij TTmf ?td) 
mFro; 1 

4 . 3 . srmfim tot ?r m+r *f) to % firi* 

5 ufwi TOA TfifTTO f"f'r»Tt» % vfl>-T it TO)TO TOW I TO TOf9 

■ft mrifm to, to^Fh mj^ to mr? tott ufF ?kF m%; aftr 

•T ?f) TOJr ETit TOT TO%rr I 

4 , 4. "•Ttft’FT irrnjfJpTO if TO «T>rfWf TO fTOAHI^H TOTO 
TOTOT (20 TTPTo ) , JTT^T HTH'lftTOlfTO WTO ( 20 ftT“ %» ) TOT 

TOft ( i tOto) % TOtror it 1 5 ° % 20 ° ^3 to % muror to 
s Otto % Fro toftt mw Ftoto totot mnf to, mi to. 
to% wt (toNt Ft#t) itt TOfroPr % fro ^r?rt wtwtto ^ft 
TOft fafrsror Fmrr totto i wr^r stto fwrf utfr TOf?rr 1 

5 , fro TOtsro 

5 . 1 . #if) (tiftm) it STrofrr Tt, >#it for mt $it 
fft TOTOTO fTOfrrit TOUT TOTpiT TO TO TOT if ITT iftlT *ft TT 

Thrftft^ 4ir Hi »h fqlim firmwt tr) tot) to froWT totott 
W« rf?T : — 

*fterf w^srf martf 

3 oftro >tt 0 2softroifto tov m ?^r sttotR 4 ft mrof «f tot 

('TOPm) tTOT^TOO 

rr.w mr fTOTt ■f tutot srwfhT i faint *f) toutot wt^r if qflf ftwfrr, 

'*** TO TOTT TOt wrtt ^TTpfrr | srTOft 7 T sp rJ f ^ ^ 

WTfirrr : — 

6. FrrrTOt TOtww 

6.1 trot (irsfrtf) t ^to aiiinlq w ftror «ft toittit 100 wrarNi 
ITt;t TTTOTTfr-'Tt^r 'TOPTT ttt^ WrfifT | Jr fTTO <rit ^rft 

to^ it totto ^rnn TOfro 1 wrottt ^ toto wf^r Otto 25 ir 

3 5 TO (T>ft I TOtSTW % JTT rftt TO fTBTW T’t TOt TOt Tl^TT 
toOttt I 

7 . (TOTt to totoi sj-fTOTST 

7 . 1 . Oro to toto affTTm ftror TtTOf it «r?t totO 300 

TTITo it^o ^ 5 f^ ^ ^ffTTifr p^TO TO iftTOTO 3 sftfJ Jf 

wFto i^ft Otr TOrfprr 1 srfirttfwTTr 20 fcrTTroftro ir wftrc ^^t 

?Oft TOf^’T 1 

8. fTOTOTttro ntTOTO TOTJ 

8.1. srq-ft'tt ^ fTOTOitfl Witt TO ft^TT-Ttlfr siOrtts 
TOTO TOTOTTO TO TOT TOtfsTO WT#TO ( 270+ 20 >ft wIt 65% 
+ 4% ^TOT:) tffX ^TOfTOtTO TO STtFr TOT^ JTT 100 jf^^T 
ftt ft^VrTTT it TOTT ^OTTO I Or^T-Ttrft TTfroTO TOT 2 TOWtTT 
it TOT Tf^t =;>ft TOOrTT I 

9. ITTOST frorTO TttWT 

9.1. wi; ST TOTT it 5TTOW, TO% ft iftTO "ft %X\ TO, 

tttttot Tot tow ttwt rtTOufTO wsr tO wto i^rt to it toto 

TO^TO I TTTOT5T TO TOTftf TO5T TO WTtTT 30 torfto & wfTO 
TTfft ([t'TT TOf^f I TitTOTT VTf TOT it 8ttTOT (ftf TOnfOtf 

TTrr^frOrTTOirTrfir tot 'srorft'ft tt tot Tftsm fron toto wf^tri 
385 GI/78— 10 


1 0 . l ttif'Jf I T 

10.1- TOTtfOT ?TT Ttfu it ^TO *fr TOTNt % TO^TiTO tot ftftr 
t t=K fwT irniTf Op spritfi to war tw to fTOtr f«Ptft yrPr 
% ^tFstt gPrfiiw^ ?> Ttt: 1 

10.2- 37 f«pi> TITO TOTT ^T TOT "K '1%^ TOTit JTt TOTT 

qttf frrFf 5T trot 90 ifo wto itt it tott Trtit 
if w' T'r-r f rf^iT 1 ^f jfr to'V’tjt 8ft stfTOTT srflrrff wrlro 
TT'jTOT t TOft TTTOTT TTOSTT fft ^TTT^f | 

10. 3. 500 F»Po TTTo T18T % WR Wit TITlft TO pT 

;t> 6 ittro top p: 6 iftro <ftri qr 1 2 wtro trprr to ft frorr 

if 5 [fWP TT 1 IPT writ ir PTOT* f tf pTifTf I ftnr iff TTr% toto ft 
PTTT ft TOf ?TftT PfTOTT frotT ft fTTOT 5 OtTO f 

ftTtr pnff ft TpfR if ft TOPTOP: WWTOTT Wtf pPf ft fl®R 
f TTTpT ft, TTIT Hint PP, fiTO TT1 TSTO TO^T I 

1 1 . P+TO 

11.1. pfpir'TOP fpPtfir if fpffR WTOU ft W^tOwOt *'f 
Ptf ft' nf PRPt f WPPR pt^PT fropT nrntPT : 

PPPT PRsft 


mi TOWR 

(*) 

tojt mfF 

TO3I 

(w) 

^>iF iff 
* fair 
TOTO 2 ) 

TOJTO TOTT 
% fmi 
(TTTTO 3 ) 

150 TO 

5 

5 

0 

0 

1 5 I if 500 

20 

5 

1 

0 

501 ir 1000 

32 

20 

2 

1 

1001 ir 3000 

50 

20 

3 

1 

3001 ir 10,000 

SO 

20 

5 

1 

10,001 TOT 





wFto 

125 

20 

.7 

1 



[TO 6 ( l)/7 6-fTOfTO 

1 cPOT fao'g - ©] 


S.O. 2138 . — Whereas for the development of export trade 
of India certain proposals for subjecting Flashlights to ins- 
pection prior to export were published as required by sub- 
rule (2) of rule It of the Export (Quality Control and Ins- 
pection) Rules, 1964, in the Gazette of India, Part-U, 
section 3, sub-section (ii), dated the 1st October, 1977 under 
the order of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Commerce No. S.O. 3025, dated the 24th September, 1977 ; 

And whereas objections and suggestions were invited till 
the 18th November, 1977 from all persons likely to be 
affected thereby ; 


And whereas the said Gazelle was made available to the 
public on the 4th October, 1977 ; 

And whereas the objections and suggestions received from 
the public on the said proposals have been considered by the 
Central Government ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 6 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act, 
1963 (22 of 1963) and in supersession of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce No. 
S.O. 3164, dated the 11th October, 1965, the Central Govern- 
ment, after consulting the Export Inspection Council, being 
of opinion that : t is necessary and expedient so to do for 
the development of the export trade of India, hereby — 

(1) notifies that Flashlights shall be subject to inspection 
prior to export ; 



2024 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, J978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3 00] 


(2) specifics Ihc type of inspection in accordance with 

the Export of Flashlights (Inspection) Rules, 1978 
as the type of inspection which shall be applied 
to such Flashlights prior to export ; 

(3) recognises the specifications as declared by the ex- 

porter to be the agreed specifications of the export 
contract for Flashlights subject to a minimum of 
the specifications as set out in Annexure to this 
Order, as the standard specification for Flashlights; 

(4) prohibits the export in the course of international 
trade of such Flashlights unless the same are accom- 
panied by a certificate issued by any of the agencies 
established under section 7 of the Export (Quality 
Control and Inspection) Act, 1963 (22 of 1963) to 
the effect that the consignment of Flashlights satis- 
fies the conditions relating lo inspection and is export- 
worthy. 

2. In this Order, “Flashlights” shall mean dry battery ope- 
rated Flashlights (also commonly known as torches) for 
domestic and other uses. 

3. Nothing in this Order shall apply to the export by 
land, sea or air of samples of Flashlights, the F.O.B. value 
of which does not exceed Rupees one hundred twenty five 
to prospective buyers. 

ANNEXURE 
[Sec paragraph, 1(3)] 

Minimum Specifications for Flashlights 

1. MATERIALS 

1.1 The body of the flashlights shall be made of alumini- 
um, brass, plastic or any other suitable material. 

1.2 The front prolecling sheet shall be made of a material 
of adequate transparency. 

1.3 Electrical conducting parts of the flashlight shall be 
made of good conducting materials. 

1.4 (a) The bulbs shall be clean, uncolourcd and free from 
defects detrimental to service. 

(b) Coloured blubs may be supplied if specifically reques- 
ted by the service. 

1.5 The shells of caps may be of any suitable metal provi- 
ded the caps are ordinarily resistant to atmospheric corrosion 
and can withstand the test specified below. 

Lamps with Edison screw caps shall be inserted in a 
holder and fixed to a suitable torsion testing muchine and 
the test shall then be carried out by twisting the bulb. The 
torque shall not be applied suddenly but increased gradually 
and the bulb shall withstand a torsional moment of 0.2 
N.m— 

2. CONSTRUCTION 

2.1 The reflecting surface of the reflector shall be free 
from visible defects such as scratches and deformations. 

2.2 Contact purls of the switch shall be so constructed 
as to offer ease of operation and shall be capable of main- 
taining good electrical contact while in the on position. The 
design of the switch shall be such as to prevent accidental 
short circuit. 

2.3 Joints, if any, in the body of flashlight shall be firm 
and Ihc fit between threaded parts shall be smooth and even. 

2.4 Springs, if used in the construction of flashlight, shall 
be of necessary strength and durability and shall be corrosion 
resistant. Springs shall be free from rust and shall withstand 
(he following tesl, namely :• — 

The fatigue property of the helical or spiral spring shall 
be checked by fully pressing and releasing the spring 50 


times in quick succession and after this test, the spring shnl^ 
not show any adverse effect in its functioning. 

3. WORKMANSHIP 

3.1 The workmanship of the flashlight and its component 
parts shall conform to good engineering practice. The front 
protecting sheet which may be glass or any other material 
shall be free from air bubbles, scratches and such other de- 
fects as arc detrimental to the function of the component. 

4. FINISH 

4.1 The finish shall be pleasing and durable, which may 
he achieved by anodizing, lacquering, chromium plating, pain- 
ting or any other suitable process, 

4.2 Plating of chromium plated flashlights shall be smooth, 
adherent, non-porous and free from visible plating defects. 
Further, the plating shall withstand a salt spray tesl for 16 
hrs. when tesled in accordance with IS 1068. — 1968 or its 
latest version. 

4.4 In the case of painted flashlights, the specimen shall 
be soacked in 5 per cent, sodium chloride solution for one 
hour. At the end of the period, the surface of the painted 
specimen shall not soften poel off, or produce blobs. 

4.4 Flashlights made of anodized aluminium shall be im- 
mersed in a solution comprising of crystalline copper sulphate 
(20 gms.) concentrated hydrochloric acid (20 ml.) and water 
(l litre) at 15* to 20 °C for 5 minutes after which the surface 
shall be inspected for presence of black spots (Copper de- 
posit) left where oxide coating is lacking. No black spots 
should be observed 

5. DROP TEST 

5.1 The flashlight complete with battery (batteries) shall 
be held in the normal position as in use. It shall be dropped 
in this position from a height of one meter on to a board 
made ot seasoned deodar wood of the following dimensions 
namely : — 

Thickness Width Lenglh 

30 mm 250 mm At least tiwee the length of 

(Min.) the flashlight under test. 
There shall be no severe deformation, split or crack in any 
part of the body or cover of the flashlight after a single 
drop. There shall also be no defect in the functioning of 
the flashlight. , 

6. FUNCTIONAL TEST FOR SWITCH 

6.1 The flashlight complete with battery (batteries) and 
the switch shall be operated through 100 cycles successively. 
Each cycle shall comprise a full operation of the switch. The 
number of cycles per minute shall be 25 to 35. At the end 
of the test, the switch shall continue to function. 

7. CONTACT RESISTANCE OF SWITCH 

7.1 The contact resistance of the switch shall be measured 
with a current of 300 MA flowing through the switch con- 
tacts and the source voltage shall be not greater than 3 volts. 
The resistance shall be not greater than 20 millions. 

8. INSULATION RESISTANCE TEST. 

8.1 The insulation resistance of the insulating parts of the 
flashlights shall be measured at standard temperature and 
relative humidily (27° ± 2°C and 65%-fc 4% respectively) 
and a DC voltage of 100 volts using a megrometer. The in- 
sulation resistance value shall not be less than 2 meghoms. 

9. LIGHT DISTRIBUTION TEST 

9.1 Light from the loaded flashlight shall be projected on 
to a plane at a distance of 2 metres from the source and 
held perpendicular to the central line of the optical axis. The 
bright spot produced on the plane shall not exceed 30 cm in 
diameter, for prefocussed type of flashlights fitted with focus- 
sing bulb and for flashlights with lens-end bulbs, this lest 
shall not apply. 

10. PACKAGING 

10.1 Flash lights shall be packed in accordance with the 
stipulation of (he buyer in this regard in such a manner as 
to ensure safe arrival of (he flashlights at the destination with- 
out any damage. 



■f'ffT'T II— *rrr ( ii ) ] 


FTTF TT TTTFF:TFTt 22, 197R/miTTf 31, 1900 


2025 


10.2 Packages weighing uplo 37 Kgs, shall be able to 
withstand a Jiop from a height of 190 cm. without arty 
damage to '.he contents inside or the package itself. Packages 
shall be adequately protected against adverse effects of wea- 
ther and moisture contamination. 

10.3 Packages weighing uplo 500 Kgs. shall be able to 
withstand rolling on its sides either 6 metres forward and f> 
metres backward or 12 metres in one direction only without 
any damage to the inner contents or the package itself. 

10.4 Packages shall be able to withstand without damage 
to the inner contents when the packages are exposed against 
a water spray equivalent to a normal sudden monsoon show- 
er for five minutes. 

11, SAMPLING 

1 1.1 Tn the absence of any specific stipulation in the con- 
tractual specification, the sampling shall be done as per the 
Table given below : 

SAMPLING TABLE 


Lot size Visual 

All other 

Permissible 

No. of 


test 


defectives 

(A) 

(B) 

For (A.) 

For (B) 



(Col. 2) 

(Col. 3) 

upto 150 5 

5 

0 

0 

155 to 500 20 

5 

1 

0 

501 to 1000 32 

20 

2 

1 

1001 to 3000 50 

20 

3 

1 

3001 to 10,000 80 

20 

5 

l 

10,001 and above 125 

20 

7 

1 

JNo. 6(l)/76-El & EP] 


tt* flto 2139 . — faVfa (FFrfair fasrafa wr farWF) trfff- 

faFF, 19 6 3 ( 1 9 6 3 "ST 2 2) WITT 1 7 ITTT SFtn FTfaFFt 

tt stfft ttf 5 ^, trif toti facFfafarr, faFF fftf! jf, 
WFf.F — 

1 . Ffa^ ffi fft fttf — ( 1 ) *f fawi tt ftf taerfm 

"FT fFFTF (faTiWF) faFF, 19 7 H $ I 

( 2 ) 4 tttftf ir st^rtf tt mtfa tt sts[»t fan i 

2. TfTffPTrrf — FF faFFT "FF fFF fanf F FRFFT TTFfaF 
T $T — 

( 47 ) fafafaFF’ fadfa (FFrfaer faFFT sk fawn) 
FftjfaFF, 1963 ( 19 63 »PT 22) TtfFFF (T : 

(»l) 'WfvryrRr’ if wfafaFF fa ETKT 7 tr Ftffa FTFf, 
"f""pfpt, fafaF, fafar wk ftft if TFrfar FfaFTfar 
Jr it 47 k rfa fFfFf § ; 

(f) '5Rfafa’ if Fkj tfa gaf jftffaT % fan ypsp narft fr 
fff Ffa*mrF (far ftf: Fifa % fft ir tif ftf 
f) FfaFF | 1 

3 fatreTT tt ftsir — nRfafar ^t farfaT ng 3 <tf k 
f"TFR FT faFT ■anrpnT fa n FfafaFF fa HRT 6 *7 FtfrF 
fafanr ftfr jrt fff fft ttf fanm fa if fan ft 

fafafafr ^ ffff f 1 

4. faTISRT fa 'jfaFT — (1) STifapfl % fanfa TTfa f7r 
^®17 faFfa-nfa tft fttf % frtf fa jjfft fafatp 
ft ir fa*TT fft fart »jfft % ftf faFfa FfarT if fitff fafa- 
fari fir F>mr fafat fafarFF fa far fartfa fa fit fanr 3 
47 f^fr fafrwir tt f% 1 

( 2 ) ff fantr ( 1 ) 47 q-fffa nfav jjfft fft t'ftwt ftf- 
ffif fa fttPi it Td it w io far qffa fa TFfat 


ftt vfa ftf ftf ^nr 4 ?i rpr qfa fadfa fafram nfa'd^ 
% farnfidfarr Torm *t fatfr ft tt, 7ft faftsfa *f r*n7T 
it faTSTF (ft, 'pslfad «fa Tfafft, *r«tftf : — 

faafa faxmRt 'Tfan;, 

q^TT, 

14/l-W, rryzt (STT 

Jtfaor) 

TrtTrTt— 700 0 (I 1 I 

l. faqfa faftaRT nffat^;, 
iFFT -flt r^J , r TH 4 1 fffatrf, 

1 1 3, rt^fa tfa TIT 
^Rfa-40000.1 I 

2- fatlfa faTTfarnr FfTF^, 
un ir. ■* fafarT, rrifmi rrraf Tfa, 
IfafftTTr, Tfafa-682 0 11 I 

3- faqfa fktM"r 
TnfaffT'FT FTT5 fafalRt, 

3, FTTFrif FR, TTfat TFT, 
Ft far#- 1 10003 I 

( 3 ) tm-faTtr ( 2 ) T fftfrF ^tft jftt F"mr srtFt ?ft tt 

krfaTTFT faflFf 3 *lk fatrfF fafPJtit FfFT? TTTt fft’d 
Fff'T-FW FT Trft faF FF Ffa Tfa Tt % XFJtFT 

WFftFt "FT fattaFF TtFT I 

( 4 ) (T) TF ttfa it FT^T *TF «5tFT fa FTftT fa'dMF % 
FFTfiF % FTFtF[ Wf»m<F F^FT % FTFt Tt FRF 
FiT tjrFfaFF F% fa faF FF FTFt «t FtF 0F-0TT 
F Tr FT ffa I 

(«) FTFF Tt wfafyfa Tt FTt F, Ffa fFFfa-TFf Fit 
FT, FtTFF "FT FfFTFF FTTT Ft^TFF Ft FTtfaTF Ft TtfFF 
faFt FTFFt I fantj F»t FFtfaf Sr, fFFfa-Trrf WFFtffa % faFTJ 
"FFfF "FTF TT ^TFTT Fip £tFT I 

( 5 ) TF wfaTTW TT Fg tFTFJtF ft 3TTF fa flUIFlFf "Ft 
FROF FT ; FFt FfTF fafFTITf t\ kfawTFf T FOJTF ^ FF FiJ fatt«FF 
Tt FFiffa % 3 faF % FtFT fFFfa-TFf "Ft Fft FTFFT TTif 
FFTt FFTF-FF FTTT Tfatt fa FfaRT firtt^TF it FTfap cfaf TT 
^TT TTFT | Wfa fFFfa-FFF t : 

FT^J FTSr FfaTTF "FT ^FT FFTFTF F|ff 5>FT Fjtr F? 
TJrF .3 faff FFfF ^7 fTfT ^FT FFFF-FF ^Tlft TtS" F tTTT 
"FT tFT FFT FF FTTT FTR faF ^FFT "FT T[FFT 7F% ■FTT'Ft 
FfaF fFFfa-TFf Tt FFT I 

5. FT 5 F faTjf fff FFTFT FFT TF^ FfaFT 

ul FT fFfFFFiT F F^FFFT *^fau "FTF ?JF faF fa T fan wfFFF 
STFffaf FT ffagr FT FRTFF TRT <Ft FfaFT % rfaff if FTTFfa 
FTFT FRTTF '(iFTRffaTF ffaj) FfttfaFF, 1952 '( 1952 TT 3 6 ) , 
FRfafF FFFF FTFTF (stFI'FlFW farg) fippr, 1955 FFT ■FTFftF 
FTFT FTFtF (FFRfTTTF ffa^) fafaFF, 19 55 % Fifarj ffpj 
?fif FFT TfF fFFF'f % faFF 4 % FtltF faffaF iFFTlF fatfl *ff 
fFTTWF % FFJTF F^f ijfa I 

6 . fatTWF "FT FFTF — ^F faFF'f % FFtFFf % faF WFFfaf 
"FT fatt p TF FT Ft — 

("F) fafaFfat % FfTFT fa FT 


IJFF "FTFfFF 


ftt^fTF TmfFF 



2026 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)J ■ 


(u) qq qftqr if faqr irrrprr Fqqfa-qqrf anr qm 
snqjq faqT qqr t, qrc^ q^ qq unr fa qqif *q 
'ST'ffsrq % fa 1 ! qqfar gPremr' ffTOmq ^f I 

7 . faFrwq qfor — ;rjqqq q’sifq qq^ i *rcffq q^f ipr, 
qfq q#ra finjrar jjjpt i irifa qf qqtr i faq, q’qra i> 

rf afar fqffsRr ifq i wq i fqqfa qrqf irt nrfqqRq 
if <fE qrrfat i 

8 . wfor— ( i) ffara 4 qff qq-ffora (s) i wtffq *rfq~ 
«ptw % rrara-qq rfa *r #qrR if rafqq it# rafqq qqi sttt 

#»er if qtra tjfa i qq fra i ifor rar ir rar 
qfq *fk wfepp if tfoR qrq rafraif % 3% faforeff % ■faq 
ir wira <et qfoiT fair irffq «wr q kr rrqfaq i faq 
fqqqq fiplTT {jf I 

(2) 4 q?r if faforiT % Tqq ir ?ra qqraqr % rar ir 

rar ir-fq?r# «raq k-qrarKr w 1 

(3) if qnrqfq tffq $Trff I 

( 4) afara qqi qRT $fa % nqf □ % qfqc fwr #f 

^rnr*fr .1 

qqfaKf 
[TOT l( 3 ) 

«mW# i ftrtr fljqqq fafofa 

1 . qrraff 

1.1. OT'jpftqf iff qM *TOjiffoqq, 'fora, rarforar qT wra 
Pp^ff qqt[W qmit if for sfoff irfifcri* 1 

1.2. wrafr rara qronff qrfof if rar# qrrfof 1 

1.3. rafoiqf i fforq rara qW qfof ffqnjT qrfof % 
rafo ^rfo 1 

1.4. (*) jrt qrar, t^Tf^r rar «fw qfo i srfforrrarforf if 

qra sfof 1 

(«■) qfa iqr itrt fafonra ir faqr qra qf 

#qiq qfot ra xqtM Pfqrr qri qqrqT ^ 1 

1.5. % wftr PRff tn^ ^ wnfr ^rff 

fV OT 4 HrtTRWq: qT 3 T »T!HTT^ % STfufftSV 

qt qqr qfff faftfire qw qipr vr qqrfr ff 
rrftqq ^q't % qT«r f(RT if Hqnrr qrTtjnT er«rr 
i(sq iw *T 9 ff?r fr qtr fw qrrrnrr wh" TW 
s^q- qff yjT fR toi iff arnfjff 1 3'sq >ft qrqRiTq 
sfjffq Pwr srnrqT qr f g tfft -aft if 
qqr qw 0.2 q[q qtr if ifcq rfq if qsq 

iiqn i 

2 . qqiqd 

2.1. qmref'F if qrrqfff irtii hit fqfffiyf q|% 

q>rf % |ffr iTf^T 1 

2.2. fan i qfi if *rr^ htv qq spett *qrq smfif 
fi iraq ^qq jf orra ik 'wr’ if sra if 
ffr^q iqi if T^r t q*ri iff 1 fora tt 
firarvT fq sraR tt (foff fi q? nraft*ra vnt 

q fffo % 1 

2.3. ennffo £ w *tft (qfif) if, ift iff ifo ff if 
i »ra^q ti 1 ^ff?n «rnff if q:R grar tfi t[RR 
itit 1 


2 ■ 4 , if qqrad if qft fofif «ft srirq four ^nwr ^ 

if ?> qmw trafif i q«n foqrr 3 i 5'ri irf^tf ^«n 
iwm srftrffiff Bfq irffrq 1 fora iq ir jjir fiif 
qrffctf qqr q'ri ^f qf trt ir qira qRir ir 
?ii qrffor ._„ 

gv&ftvn: qr Fraq i q7irq qwi if 

qru qnr qqT fora if so tr qr?ff sraraR 
if?^ JT if qrqqf qqr qq to % qrara. ffsfq qqq 
qqq iff qfqiqq qqrq q^f qffqr I 

3 . qqq ihra 

3.1. epqffq qir fqi qqra? qrqf if qqffqff w»®r wfo- 
qrfoq foqr i q^qq frrqr qrf^r qq q^fr q^qq if 
ifi qr qra fWf qrqif if jft qqqff |, qrq i 
vraif nirif ra ^q wra itif ^ qqq ffif irffrir 

ir forraff i qqq «fR^ if qra«r ir 1 

4 . fifqvr 

4 . i. fifoq ^qmqr q«n fovra ?r ir qq'rifqRq sraraWrar 

qiTfiqq i^rri, q'qiqq qr fair q^q qqqfq qfaqr 
irar q^q ir ^r rfaqf 1 

4.2. iTFqqq qfr ST^forf ir TtR ffoqqf, qrrrfaq, falTf^q 
trq critt qiT?r i ^RT q»' if iJiRT gf I *fk qq 
qro RTo 1068 - 1 968 qr ^qi qqTqqq faeR^q i 

qrar if qfa ji 1 e iif rra frqni <q*R 
qffai qfq tw *f rra«f gfif qrforf ; 

4.3. rqqfiq erraifaf if qqr i q«j^ if q^r q? i foq 
5 qfaqq qri qrfaqq ra'RriT i ifo if yirar 
qrqqr 1 ^q qqFq if qqrfra qr, qqiffaq q^q ir 
qqf qra q?ff 5>ir qrfaq *rk q jfr qqi qra qqfr 
ufaq 1 

4 . 4 . qqrffaq q^ijirffora ^ ir wiqtif ir fqqqrar?q ifqR 
q?i? (20 qru), qfa firjRiffra *rra (20 fooF?ro) 
qra qrqf (1 ifor) % qi ifq if 1 5° ir 20° f'» 
if° i qrqqra qr s foqq i fqq qirqr smnn faq% 
qtqrq. rar^ qq, ®fi qq qrfa qfaf (qKr fawq) if 
qqfoqFq i ffor , qrrar , ?q iq ir Tit | fqfrw<q 
Fqrqr qr^qr 1 qni qra Fqrrf qff ^q uf^tr 1 

5 . ^rq qfiro 

5.1. qfarf (tqfoqf) ^ qqq ?raifqf ir iqr fa q% gf 
qrqTra Frafa if qrar qnrrqr ^q qra if rrqr ifor 
if qrarf # q'irfqq ttott if fatqfaFiq Fqqmf ir 
tTqrir qq fforar qn^qr, wqfa: — 

qtrrf iforf qiqrf 

30 fioifo 250 Fq oifo’ qri sir t| wrirq 

(qj;qqq) if <qrarf i qrq 

# qrq jqqf 

t>qr ir fiRTT i qrarq; srqqfq i Fqqff if qrq qr 
«fra if if# faifq, qrra, qr rr q^f wnfr irfatr 1 
STTqfq i iri if if# *TRf qff writ 1 

i fqrr qqq qffaq 1 



[Si^i II' -wn 3 ( ii ) ] 'RTTff «pr qnrc*:qmt 


6.1. qqqr (Yefqq'Y) YY qqq STqqtq Y trow Yr srqmrq 
mo qrqqq't 5 TTT *n 6 *nrjiTT qqrTqr ^tot qr%q i 
q?qq; wrqqq Jr fqqq YY ^Y qq?; t srqTqT srtqr 
qrFirrr i xrrqqqr YY *r wr qfq fqqq 25 q :i 5 qq 
?YqY i qfrwq Y ^ 7 r ?tq qq Yr ttY ttY q?qT 
qrf?q i 

7. fqqq *Pr W jrfimir 

7 . 1 . fqqq qr qqY qfaqnr fqqq mYt q sr?Y qrYt 30 n 
pRof® Y fT«T 3 qqT? W qTqt tRoYT q“-TT BsT YYfSqT 
3 Yr?q Y 'crfW'TT qfr irYqY qrfipr 1 qfqqtftrqT 20 
fqYYYm q wftnr qff ?Tqr qrf?q 1 

8 . fq*rq-q'rqq qfqqYq qrtj 

s , 1 . stqYYq'Y Y fqqq Tt*fr *rm «pt fqijq qYtft qfqqm 
qrw qrqirpT qq qqr qrqfwT writr ( 27 %± 2 %Yr 
YYr 63 % + 45% m/) YYr Yq?nfYqq tt q+o 
■rqq ?q 100 Ytqqqr Yr fqwarqr YY qrqr qrqqr 1 
fqqq q'rsrr qfqq'rq qrq 2 YnYm Yy tr qp ?ht 
'T ifirq 1 

9 . q^ntr fqqtqr qYYwq 

n.i. +Y ;q srYfiqf Yr qqq«r, qqq 1 Yr Ytqq Yr fft qq 

qqqtq Yqr qrqqr qqT smYYq ww YY qeq Yurt qq 

Twr Jr qrsq qrtrqr 1 qqqr qq qqYtY put «pt tqrq 

aoqo YY® 3 w-faqr q?Y ?Yqr q-rfstTr 1 Ytqqq q?q 

"pt q?Y Y Ym ?rq qT% «T«rqYqf qqr #*rfqY qrY 

qqq *=r*f srqqrq'f qq q? qqYwq qijiY fYqi *rrqi 

qrfftT 1 

1 0 . qYfYq 

10.1. wqqYq ifq YYq Jr Yqr % P^Yqf % qqqrq jq <Yfq 

Y q+ fYq Trrqq fY w’^rfY+f qr qrq®q qqrq qq; faqr 

FtYy ?rfq % q;qf«rq qjqRT gfqf qqq 51 1 

10.2. 37 Ppo qto qqr % ttit % 4 %ir qqir qiq qqq fiY 
qfrf STrq f»rqT 90 »fYc qfr qpqrf Jr qrq qqq 
qrqJr Jr qqq ^Yq ^rfeq 1 ^%Yf YY YYqq Yt qfq^r 
qqrqt qq wrjqr qyqw % -qsfY qqqq ^qwr Yr 
■srtqqY 1 

10.3. son fqro qr® qq; $r nrq % <?%^r wq^ qnqf qq qr 
?rr s qYqq wq qr 6 jfYrc q+i qr 1 2 qfqq 

qq fqvrr q qjqq qqqqqY Jr qq«Y f'rq qTfgtr 1 
q$q qr Tq% w?qq % qqq q'Y Yrf ^rfq q^Y qjqqt 
qr%q 1 

10.4. >f %sr, w^qq Y to vt frrfq qjqrq fqqr qq q^q *r 
wtwq 5 fqqq % fqq qrqr Yr ^qtq Jr Yt qTqpqq: 
wqqqrq wrf qqY Yr qYtjiq Y qqrqq ft, qqrr qrq 
qq fYqq qqr T^qT qTffT I 

1 1 . qqqr 

n.i. qfqqqqq fqfqqq Jr fqFsqq qqqq YY qqqf^qfq Jr 
qYY qY qq qrq+Y % qqqrq qqqr firot qtqqr : 


2 2, 19 78/wm? 31, 1900 2027 


nqqr qrqqft 


%i | ^ 1 i. 

qnffq 

spq qqY 

qjq) YY 

(*) * 


(T) 

TrtJ 

qqqq qqqr 

frttT 



0 ») 

(w) Y ftrtr ( 

Yqq 3) 




(rqq 2) 


i so qqr 

5 

5 

0 

0 

15 1 q 500 

20 

5 

1 

0 

so i q iooo 

32 

20 

2 

1 

i oo i q 3000 

5 0 

20 

3 

1 

300 1 q 10,000 

NO 

20 

5 

1 

10,001 qqnqftTT 

1 2 5 

2 0 

7 

i 



^ i 
0 1 

<T, 

7 6~fq®fq<> qqt 

f?fo\3 0 ] 

S O. 2139 In 

exercise 

of the powers conferred 

by sec- 


lion 17 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act, 
1963 (22 of 1963), and in supersession of the Export of 
Flashlights (Inspection) Rules. 1965, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby makes the following rules, namely: — 

1. Shrot title and commencement. — (1) These rules may 
be called the Export of Ei'ashlights (Inspection) Rules, 1978. 

(2) These shall come into force on the date of their pub- 
lication in the Gaqette. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise 
requires — 

(a) ‘Acl’ means the Export (Quality Control and Ins- 
pection) Act, 1963 (22 of 1963) ; 

(b) 'agency' means any one of the agencies established at 

Bombay, Calcutta, Cochin, Delhi, and Madras under 
section 7 of the Act ; 

(c) ‘Flashlights' mean dry baltery operated flashlights 
fnlso commonly known as lorches) for domestic 
and other uses. 

?. Basis of Inspection. — Inspection of flashlights shall be 
carried out with a view to seeing that the same conform to 
the specifications recognised by the Central Government 
under section 6 of the Act, and given in the Schedule to 
these rules. 

4. Procedure of inspection.- — (1) An exporter intending to 
export flashlights shall give intimation in writing of his 
intention so to do and submit along with such intimation a 
declaration as to the agreed specifications of the export con- 
tract to any agency to enable it to carry out the inspection 
in accordance with rule 3. 

(2) Every intimation and declaration under sub-rule (1) 
shall be given not less than ten days before the scheduled 
date of shipment, and copy of intimation shall 1 simultaneously 
be endorsed to any of the following offices of the Export 
Inspection Council, which is nearest to the place of inspection, 
namely : — 

Head Office : 

Export Inspection Council 
World Trade Centre 
14/1B Ezra Street, 7th floor, 

Calcutta — -700001. 

Regional Office : 

(1) Export Inspection Council 
Aman Chambers, 4th floor, 

113, M. Karve Road, 

Bombay — 400004. 

(2) Export Inspection Council 
Manohar Buildings 
Mahatma Gandhi Road, 

Ernakulam, 

Cochin— 68201 1. 



2028 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part 11— Sec. 3(ii$- 


(3) Export Inspection Council, 

Municipal Market Building, 4th floor, 
3, Sarswati Marg, Karol Bagh, 


New Delhi— 110005. 


(3) On receipt of the intimation and declaration under 
sub-rule (2) the agency shall carry out the inspection of flash- 
lights in accordance with rule 3 and the instructions, if any, 
issued in this behalf by the Export Inspection Council from 
time to time. 

(4) (a) After completion of the inspection, the agency 
shall immediately seal the packages in the consignment in a 
manner as to to ensure that the seared goods cannot be 
tampered with. 

(b) In case of rejection of a consignment, if the exporter 
so desires, the consignment may not be sealed or stamped 
or stencilled by the agency but in such cases, however, the 
exporter shall not be entitled to prefer an appeal against 
the rejection. 

(5) When the agency is satisfied that the consignment of 
flashlights complies with the requirements of the recognised, 
specifications, it shall, within 3 days of completion of ins- 
pection issue a certificate to the exporter declaring that the 
consignment satisfied the conditions relating to inspection 
and is exportworthy : 

Provided that where the agency is not so satisfied, it 

shall within the said period of three days refuse to 

issue such certificate and communicate such refusal 
to the exporter along with the reasons therefor. 

5. Affixation of recognised marks and procedure thereof. — 

The provisions of Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
Marks) Act, 1952 (36 of 1952), the Indian Standards Insti- 
tution (Certification Marks) Rules, 1955 and the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 
shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the procedure 

of affixation of the recognised mark or seal on Flashlights 

meant for export denoting its conformity to the standard 
specifications and flashlights so marked shall not be subjected 
to any inspection under rule 4 of these rules. 

6. Place of Inspection. — Inspection of Flashlights for the 
purposes of these rules shall he carried out, cither — 

(a) at the premises of the manufacturer, or 

(b) at the premises at which the goods arc offered by 
the exporter, provided adequate facilities for the 
purpose exist therein. 

7. Inspection fee.— Subject to a minimum of Rupees 
twenty-five a fee at the rale of fifty paise for every hundred 
rupees of the f.o.b. value shall be paid by the exporter to 
the agency as inspection fee. 

8. Appeal. — (1) Any person aggrieved by the refusal of Ihc 
agency to issue a certificate under sub-rule (5) of rule 4, 
may, within ten days of the receipt of communication of 
such refusal by him prefer an appeal to a Panel of Exports 
consisting of not less than three persons but not more than 
seven persons as may be appointed for the purpose by the 
Central Government. 

(2) The panel shall consist of at least two-thirds of non- 
officials of the total membership of the Panel of Experts. 

(3) The quorum for the Panel shall be three. 

(4) The appeal shall be disposed of within fifteen days of 
its receipt. 

SCHEDULE 
(See rule 3) 

Minimum Specifications for Flashlights 

1. MATERIALS 

1.1 The body of the flashlight shall be made of aluminium, 
brass, plastic or any other suitable material. 


1.2 The front protecting sheet shall be made of a mate- 
rial of adequate transparency. 

1.3 Electrical conducting parts of the flashlight shall be 
made of good conducting materials. 

1.4 fa) The bulbs shall be clean, uncoloured and free from 
defects detrimental to service. 

(b) Coloured bulbs may be supplied if specifically request- 
ed by the buyer. 

1.5 The shells of caps may be of any suitable metal, pro- 
vided the caps are ordinarily resistant to atmospheric corro- 
sion and can withstand the test specified below 

Lamps with Edison screw caps shall be inserted in a 
holder and fixed to a suitable torsion testing 
machine and the test shall then be carried out by 
twisting the bulb. The torque shall not be applied 
suddenly but increased gradually and the buffi shall 
withstand a torsional moment of 0.2. N,m. 

2. CONSTRUCTION 

2.1 The reflecting surface of the reflector shall be free from 
visible defects such as scratches and deformations. 

2.2 Contact parts of the switch shall be so constructed as 
to offer ease of operation and shall be capable of maintain- 
ing good electrical contact while in the 'on' position. The 
design of the switch shall be such as to prevent accidental 
short circuit. 

2.3 Joints, if any, in the body of flashlight shall be firm 
and the fit between threaded parts shall be smooth and even. 

2.4 Springs, if used in the construction of the flashlight, 
shall be of necessary strength and durability and shall be 
corrosion resistant. Springs shall be free from rust and shall 
withstand the following test, namely : — 

The fatigue property of the helical or spiral spring shall 
be checked by fully pressing and releasing the spring 
50 times in quick succession and after this test, the 
spring shall not show any adverse effect in its func- 
tioning. 

3. WORKMANSHIP 

3.1 The workmanship of the flashlight and its component 
parts shall, conform to good engineering practice. The front 
protecting sheet which may be glass or any other material 
shall be free from air bubbles, scratches and such other de- 
fects as are detrimental to the function of the component. 

4. FINISH 

4.1 The finish shall he pleasing and durable, which may 
be achieved by anodizing, Iaoquering, chromium plating, 
painting or any other suitable process. 

4.2 Plating of chromium plated flashlights shall 1 be smooth, 
adherent, non-porous and tree from visible plating defects. 
Further, the plating shall withstand a sail spray test for 16 
hrs. when tested in accordance with IS 1068 — 1968 or its 
latest version. 

4.3 In the case of painted flashlights the specimen shall 
be soaked in 5 per cent sodium chloride solution for one 
hour. At the end of the period the surface of the painted 
specimen shall not soften peel off, or produce blobs. 

4.4 Flashlights made of anodized aluminium shall be im- 
mersed in a solution comprising of crystalline copper sul- 
phate (20 gms.) concentrated hydrochloric acid (20 ml.) 
and water (1 litre) at 150 to 200 C for 5 minutes fater 
which the surface shall be inspected for presence of black 
spots (Copper deposit) left where oxide coaling is lacking, 
No black spots should be observed. 



2029 


■q-pT I[--irr* .1 (li)] ffTTff TT TUTO* : 22 , 1 0 7 SfaFTPK 31 , 1900 


'5. DROP TEST 

5.1 The flashlights complete with battery (batteries) shall 
be held in the normal position as in use. It shall be dropp- 
ed in this position from a height of one metre on to a board 
made of seasoned deodar wood of the following dimensions, 
namely : — 

Thickness Width Length 

30 mm 250 mm At least twice the lengih of 

(Min.) t.ic flashlight under test. 

There shall be no severe deformation, split or crack in 
any purt of the body or cover of the flashlight after a single 
drop. There shall, also be no defect in the functioning of 
the flashlight. 

6. FUNCTIONAL TEST FOR SWITCH 

6.1 The flashlight complete with battery (batteries) and 
the switch shall be operated through 100 cycles successively. 
Each cycle shall comprise a full operation of the switch. 
The number of cycles per minute shall be 25 to 35. At 
the end of the test, the switch shall continue to function. 

7. CONTACT RESISTANCE OF SWITCH 

7.1 The contact resistance of the switch shall be measur- 
ed with a current of 300 mA flowing through the switch 
contacts and the source voltage shall be not greater than 3 
volts. The resistance shall be not greater than 20 millionms, 

8. INSULATION RESISTANCE TEST 

8.1 The insulation resistance of the insulating parts of the 
flashlights shall be measured at standard temperature and rela- 
tive humidity (27° zfc 2°C and 65 per cent±4 per cent res- 
pcstively) and a DC voltage of 100 volts using a megohme- 
ter. The insulation resistance value shall not be less than 2 
megohms, 


9, T.TGHT DISTRIBUTION TEST 

9.1 Light from the loaded flashlight shall be projected on 
to a plane at a distance of 2 metres from the source and 
held perpendicular to the central line of the optical axis. 
The bright spot produced on the plane shall not exceed 30 
cm. in diameter, for prefocussed type of flashlights fitted with 
focussing bulb and for flashlights with lens-end bulbs, this 
test shall not apply. 

10. PACKAGING 

10.1 Flashlights shall be packed in accordance with the 
stipulation of the buyer in this regard in such a manner as 
to ensure safe arrival of the flashlights at the destination 
without damage. 

10.2 Packages weighing uplo 37 kgs. shall be able to with- 
stand a drop from a height of 190 cm. without any damage 
to the contents inside or the package itself. Packages shall 
be adequately projected against adverse effects of weather and 
moisture contamination. 

10.3 Packages weighing upto 500 kgs. shall be able to 
withstand rolling on its sides either 6 metres forward and 6 
metres backward or 12 metres in one direction only without 
any damage to the inner contents or the package itself. 

10.4 Packages shall be able to withstand without damage 
to the inner contents when the packages are exposed against 
a water spray equivalent to a normal sudden monsoon shower 
for five minutes. 


11. SAMPLING 

11.1 In the absence of any specific stipulation in the con- 
tractual specification, the sampling shall be done as per the 
Tabic given below : 


SAMPLING TABLE 


Lot Size 

Visual 

All 

Permissible No. of 



other 

defectives 



tests 



(A) 

(B) 

For (A) For ((B) 


(Col. 2) (Col 3) 


upto 


150 

5 

5 

0 

0 

151 

to 

500 

20 

5 

1 

0 

501 

to 

1000 

32 

20 

2 

1 

1001 

lo 

3000 

50 

20 

3 

1 

3001 

to 

10,000 

80 

20 

5 

1 

10,001 and 


125 

20 

7 

1 


[No. 6(l)/76 EI&EP] 

Wt°wt° 2140. — ( Rrf'TTt ffV ffiftUTtt) Ufa- 

fffffd, 1963 (,1063 TT 22) «ffT (TUT 8 3TCT STTff ttfmt 
Ft !I«r>T 5nff fir fcrrfTr ffTW; effopibff % ffjftt if ffTCfflff 
ffffT ffPTIff ttffPifNR'iT fff^ ffFiRfr tff Hff trip qrffR, 

("Rrfa-fr fipurtt tfrt ffferem) fatm, 1004 %fffqff 
11 % ffT-ftilff (,2) U^TFUtR ffTTff ffTTR iff ffrPJRff 
turupr 4# ff° TU HT° 149 6, flrrffl 14 fff, 1977 

% Sfffmff ffTOT % TTTOT, fflff-2, WT7-3 — 7CT-*TT (ii), 

21 rtf, 1 97 7 if tmfam f<UTT|; 

*ftr irif rrfff wWf ff trr^T aht-t r fffftf, 1077 off 

rrfif ffff if Iff# SOTTfUff ft# «|ff ff'ffTqffT «ft ; 

tfTT ffftT tmi tff srfaffi ffflfft fff 21 fff, 1077 qr> 

ff'TTJtr ttt ifr fff wf ; 

ttH ffffflt # tTUff ■an-fffff gwnff qr ftjjflff *uqrt^ 
ITTT fffTR VT fttffl fftrr fc : 

ha:, m faq-fa Rrrffffff ifftpsff tfk Mfsm, aftifflqu, 
1903 ( 1903 Tt 22 ) Tf urn R ffTO 5URT Ttfippff FI SFTpf 
qffff 5'T rpqy VTTTn UTTTC % qtf'TUq rTSTUff >1# wftf^rffT 
ttwr Tr° tin 3iG5, ffrdij 11 wp^jr, 1005 % trftr^ffir 
if, ffr-jfl ff fiffitn:, if w'Piff "ftp# % fin; tjrq^ % #jftr if 
ffRfffff fflffT inmffTTff Tf ffPfffft Xff JPT qlfflff 

WTflf $ flp Wff€fqf IT ffUTF qiT Jf qfj # ffiflT 

wfaPlffff 4# HITT 6 % tj? (ff) % Wtffff Tff TP TPJ Jft# 
qiff tnffT Wfl^itff $ ffm# fftpif 1 

— xff if 'tfTfftffq’ # ff«iT wr?sr 

qffWf % fffff Freip Hztf # !TT% WirtfW (fff ffTffdk 

IT 'Iff % fltff # JTTff t) Jf I 

[ffo 6 ( 1 ) / 7 0— ffl 0 ffl 0 TT«nf>ti)ffo] 
iffo fftrw 

S.O. 2140. — Whereas the Central Government, in exer- 
cise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the (Quality 
Control and Inspection) Act, 1963 (22 of 1963), published 
a proposal to recognise the Indian Standards Institution Certi- 
fication Mark in relation to Flashlights as required by sub- 
rule (2) of rule 11 of the Export (Quality Control and Ins- 
ection) Rules, 1964 in the Gazette of India, Part-II, Section 
— Sub-section (ii), dated the 21st May, 1977 under the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Commerce No, S.O. 1496, dated the 14th May, 1977 ; 

And whereas the objections and suggestions were invited 
till, the 8th July, 1977 from all persons likely to be affected 
thereby ; 

And whereas the copies of tb said Gazette were made 
available to the public on the 21st May, 1977 ; 



2030 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part IF— Sec. 3(ii)] 


And whereas the objections and suggestions received from 
the public have been considered hy the Central Government 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 8 of the Export (Quality, Control and Inspection) Act, 
1963 (22 of 1963) and in supersession of the notification 
of the government of India, in the Ministry of Commerce 
No. SO. 3165, dated the llth October, 1965, (he Central 
Government hereby recognises the Indian Standards Institu- 
tion Certification Mark with respect to Flashlights for the 
purpose of denoting that where Flashlights arc allixcd with 
such mark., they shall' he deemed to be in conformity with 
the standard specification applicable thereto under Clause 
(c) of section 6 of the said Act. 

Explanation. — In this notification ‘Flashlights’ shall mean 
dry battery operated Flashlights (also commonly known as 
torches) for domestic and other uses. 

[No. 6( 0/76-EIiAFP| 
C. B. K.UKRET1, It. Director 


lakhs seventyflve thousand) for the item Alloy seamless steel 
lube etc. for AM 77 period, 

2. They have applied 1 for duplicate custom copy of said 
licence for Rs. 203636 on Ihe ground that the original cus- 
tom copy has been lost/misplaced after having been registered 
with Custom House, Bombay and utilised partly. 

3. In support of their claim applicant has filed an affidavit. 

4. 1 am satisfied that custom copy of licence No. P/S/ 
2772637 dt. 13-7-76 has been lost and direct that duplicate 
licence of custom purpose copy of said licence should be 
issued to applicant, 

5. The original custom copy of licence No. P/S/2772637 
dt. 13-7-76 is cancelled. 

[F. No. II7|EU|07220|SI!AM-77!AV|SS 2J317] 
N. C. DAVE, for Jt. Chief Controller 


•TriiLtu httTt kt ^ TH P /tt hA I H u 

( inform fa*rtu ) 

fapw mm fftftwf, amtm-fftfan ft ftnftmr 

WftRTTSlK, 6 5J0T, 1 9 7 S 

nr wrxft in win 

* To w« 2i4t. — fafa pm fafaxr ftT<ftqfaxir ftrfa fro, 
112/113, fao StT $0 fao ft)o TT'fr, fspTT T?*TX ftt fft*79T7J 

ftr ftmfaT ^«tpt fa z/rnr m-rfr fat ft f ftp nfar— mft 77 

Wfaft ft fftp 3,75,000 ffa (ftfa 'nTplXTX RXTX xpft) 

TT WP7T rtrtftp To fao/p*T/ 2772037 ffafa 1 3-7-76 574IT 

fftpr mrr ft i 

2. mfaft XT fartftft 3ft ftftrr-SpTi faft fa STpT 

2 0 3 6 3 fi % fftp T5TT 4 ?fa ft fftp ET WffTX qt fftiTT 

fftpr ft fa ftftrrsmr faft ftlm-nmr Tifamr, mirf ft fifasnr 

4tXTft P«T7 nlffaF trq ft TfatP TXT % 574 fa ft/WXI7TX , T 

fapfft I 

nfar xri % mrfar ft rnfa ft pf tm-fn 4iffar fftrrr 
ft i 

4. ft jfft TT?ftr fto rfr/rrir/ 2 7 7 2 G 3 7 fftfaT 13-7-76 

•ft ftritT-^PF fax fa xrf ft tst ft fftftsr ftr ft fa PTfafi 
mtftft ft ftriTr-xrp?; fair xir ^rxr Tnrftp mfa fa nrft qtx ffarr 
mp i 

5. rrtrftft fto ft)/pn/2772637 fTTfa 13-7-76 fa Pft 

faft ^ fft urrfa ft i 

[U« fto 1 1 7 1 $ Ij / 0 7 2 ' 2 o/iT*r farf /tt ttit- 7 7 /rr 

pppj) 2 / 317 ] 
PT o ft) o 4Tft T/T, tj>pr fatfaT 

MINISTRY OF COMMERCE, CIVIL SUPPLIES AND 
COOPERATION 

(Department of Commerce) 

OFFICE OF THE JOINT CHIEF CONTROLLER OF 
IMPORTS AND EXPORTS 
Ahmedabad, the 6 th June, 1978 
CANCELLATION ORDER 

S.O. 2141— M/s. Air coils Mfg. Co., l td. 112/113,, G.l. 
D.C., Vapi, Districl Bulsar has been granted import licence 
Number P[S|2772637 dt. 13-7-76 for Rs. 3.75,000 (Rs. three 


( tjw fad**, mmn-fftfair wt wfamt) 

win 

pf ffaft) , 7 Tpxrf, 19 78 

*To WT» 2142. — nfaf) W wfvpFTT tTriffa fa^ftplrtill 
477fao fft°, 3ft- 3 IT fa tTTT f-qfa-2, pt fefa 4ft 7*TT ft 26 
prpx ftfa 1 1 ft° fas fapxftT-TTEP 'fTXs: ^tfaftrft qfi WPTP 
TXft % fan 87,747 127ft — 5940 faf (pprftt gpTTX TIP ft) 

ftrfafa mp *rrcr) % faft mm mvftfa ft° wr^/xft/ 2 032232 / 
nrx/% ftn/fi2/ftT/43-44/ftt 7f)-2/nxr ftT fafPF 11-1-77 
R4 tt fatrr wr nr 1 ttf Trrftft ftt fttm ypn tfafar 
ftfa ftfa ftffT fftfarrq- fafttrr ftfx tft nftfafft trfa Trx) fixft ft 
faft tR mam: m mirr fam ft fa jjxt ifrin spf imr tst 
fafwr fafaptr irfa firft ?ft nf ft 1 mft tftt ftt spmrr 

7 W ft fa ft/r ftrirr iftm ftfa jtjt fafamr fafarr srfft fat?j5r 
ft) Tfftftr ftfiiffmfiTfftftktTT'Txfaimr 97,747 W) 
Trm'jft 1 

2 . ?t tfa ft Tmfa ft mftpr ft ftmf) tdxsR ft mrsr 
fftfanr wr ftft 5 ft ft<r rrm-m Ttfartr fam - ft 1 itc^ix, 
ft ftty^ j fa mr TTTftft ft) .tt ftfar vj/rt wlx ttt fftfar.JT 
fftftmr Rfa iff) rtf ft I WF T4T ftfafe EfPTm (fftlfa’T) 
mftn, 19 55 faffa 7-12-55 ft) TT-URT 9 (ft) ft)) ft WTRcT 
57 TT wfTOlXf 417 SrtfTT 4rft JtT rfaftt RW nfafTTTT, Rlfttn 
fa«rft)«T4iTiT mftfo fa°, fa fftfa) ft TT*T ft XTX) far) fiT) mT' 
*T fto mft/ft)/ 203 2232, fcffa 11-1-77 fa ftfRT 4JW 
srft)TT faft fax titt fftfamr fftftTn 5rfft ftr 04437 x 7 fam 
4T TXT ft I 

.3. mw mrftT fa ft)m ijw fax jjjt ffaftmr fftfaw fas 
ft) ATfafa srfn Tisfattrrx) 4 ft mrn ft TTfr fa arr xfa ft 1 

[fawr ft) fa- 2 /fa- 3 / 7 6- 7 7 / s 8 0 ] 
fao rrtTo RTTcr, TT-Rtw fftfifaF 


UTnce or the Chiet i ontroller of Import! and Exports 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th July, 1978 

S-°' 2 I 42 -— -The Chief Engineer Rural Electrification Corp. 
I. to. D-5, NDSE-Park-lJ, New Delhi were gran'ed an import 
Licence No. l/C/2032232/R|KS|62|H(43-44|CG. HlLS dated 
11-1-77 for Rs. 87,747— £, 5940 (Rupees Eighty Seven thou- 
sand seven hundred and forty seven only) for Import of 20 Nos. 
cate II K, V. Overhead-line fault Indicators from U.K, They 


2031 


[frrr [J -ir-it a(ii)] ritr nr ttrtr : tott£ 22, i 97 n/*iT»r($ 31, 1900 


have applied for (he issue of a duplicate Custom Purposes copy 
and Exchange Control Purposes copy of the said licence on 
the ground that the original Customs & Exchange purposes 
copies have been losl/misplaced. It is further s alcd that the 
original Customs and Exchange copies were not utilised at 
all and the balance available on it was Rs. 87,747. 

2. In support of this contenion, the applicant has filed an 
affidavit duly sworn in before Notary, Hardwad. I am accord- 
ingly satisfied that the original Customs and Exchange pur- 
poses cophs of ihe said licence have been lost. Therefore, in 
exercise of the powers conferred under Sub-clause 9(cc) of the 


Imports (Control) Order 1955 dated 7-12-1955 has amended, 
the said original Customs and Exchange copies of licence No. 
I/C/2032232 dated 11-1-77, issued to M|s. The Chief Engi- 
neer Rural Electrification Corp. Ltd,, New Delhi hereby 
cancelled. 

3. The duplicate Customs and Exchange Purpose copies 
of the said licence are being issued separately to licensee. 

[No. CG, II/D-3/76-77 580] 
G. S. GREWAL, Dy. Chief Controller 


(RiRfr* ijrn tj* 

(tRTtrfht RTRRI HfHT) 

uf firmV, 1 h 7 s- 0 7- 0 ft 

VToWfo 2143 . — RRR-RRR R» *trr?fa RRT RfRr (RRT 4 R f^jf) frfRRR 1955 % farfRUR i 4 % -jRfrffiRR (4) % *EJRTC 

rttrIr rptt Wi ircr xrfagf’TR (Vri orrnT ^ fit rtrrr rrrt Rt rr/rr- 3 1 no fijRifr srffit rI% RfiTf’fl *1 ferr no 197R-05-01 % 
477 firm mtT £ »fjtt t 4 R ?r 705 tr tort rr vr. firqr & 1 


SIR RTERR RRRr •ffr^RRUTfr RT R 1 R XtV TRT f%R TR RIRRR % RtftR R 77 j/ RFRRrtft VTRtflR RTRR; 

rf» Mr pMrt 


1 . tfrrrtT/TRv-.-noo rr^ rrMrr rtr^str fa<>, 2 «/ 1 / rM %/ rort^ % fro tor rrrt r'M- IS ; 49 R 4 - 1972 RTRI %) % 

1972-07-1 2 2, RTWWr*T vIR, RTt filTRRRT, Jr TrMr RriR : ftTR TOR RRCR RlTftSRTTOfffi RTTR 

Tta, «PTOPvrt-70003 8 (l) 140 fRRt gft*! 4 MRrfcj 

f%°nro TR/^ojfro* rt tit (RfRT gfifterR) 

%, 

( 2 ) 140 fW) HTIjf) Mtra flV 6 fro 

ru arcr/M) 8 

(.3) 140 fRjft TifpPf 5 Rr«r tfrr 10 
furor tot/ M ) 2 tr *fbi % 

RTT[ : ‘fTRtptR’ 

[tr» Rt RR tlj 55-3 too] 


(Deptt. of Civil Supplies and Co-operation) 

(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi, 1978-07-06 

S O II 11.— ! i p rrsurnce of sub-regulation (4) of regulation 14 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regula- 
tions 1955 as amended from time to time, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that Licence No. CM/L-3100 particulars of 
which are given below has/have been cancelled with effect from 1 978-05-01 as the firm has stopped production of the material. 


SCHEDULE 

SI. Licence No. and Date Name & Address of the Licensee Articlc/Process covered by the Relevant Indian Standards 
No. licenses cancelled 


1 CM/L-3100 

1972-07-12 


M/s Climax Pipes Pvt, Ltd., 26/ 
1/2, Malakarpara Lane, Buro 
Shibtolla Main Road, Cal- 
cutta-700038. 


High density polyethylene pipes 
for potable water supplies: 

(i) up to and including 140 mm 
outside diameter and of 
pressure rating 4 kgf/cm"; 

(ii) up to and including 140 mm 
outside diameter an of pre- 
ssure rating 6 kgf/cm*; and 

(iii) upto and including 140 mm 
outside diameter and of pre- 
ssure rating 10 kgf/cm* 
Brand : 'CLIMAX’- 


IS: 4984-1972 Specification for 
high density polyethylene 
pipes for potable water 
supplies 
(First Revision) 


385 01/78- — l l 


[No. CMD/553-100] 



2032 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 


'FTotn° 2144 . — RFR-FTO TOC mfaftFT VTTOf)R TORT RFRT (SPTFTO fV^f) ffaffaRR 1955 fafafRRtT 14 % tJuffaRTOT (4) % TORTOt 


trnfartt toff faro cut Rfu^ErR ferr tort t fa rirrr tor, faRR/EH--27S4 fan% faU fa% TOjtjfa Sf fan rr % to Sf tufa faFjr 

faro TOr^ TO TO fa t ffaffa TORR 19 7 8-03-29 Sf Rtf TO( TO faUT TOT If t 


WRtrfa 


to mfafR to far farfa wrfaiRitrfl tt tor far tot 
?twt 

Tl[ faR RR tTIRfar fa RtffR TOR/ 
faTOT 

TOfTOtff TOTfaq TOTOT 

1. fa RR/RR-27S4 nfafannofao faqR rEtRRR'R TTO fa 

197 1-10-21 Ufa TOo t(o 14, 

RT3TO fa?, 21, totrt- 2 (fatrfafa) 

■tor fa faftfa fa ffar strj fa ffafar 

Rlfa ■- 'r=T fa fa’ 

IS : 10 (tor 4 )— 1 976 TOR fa 
faffaft fa ffaR fa Rfa fa 

ffafaifa : TOR 4 RT^ fa ffaj'R 
(TO|«f RRfaOT) 



[^0 ?ft ittt fV /55 : 2784] 

*r£o tt^o fafa , ^TTT -h 


S-O- 2144.— In pursuance of sub-regulation (4) of regulation 14 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks), Regu- 
lations 1955 as amended from time to time, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that Licence No. CM/L-2784 particulars of 
which are given below has/have been cancelled with effect from 1978-03-29 as the firm has closed down its unit at Coonoor. 

SCHEDULE 


SI. Licence No, and Date 

No. 

Name & Address of the Licensee Article/Proccss covered by the 

Licensees cancelled 

Relevant Indian Standards 

1 CM/L-2784 

1971-10-21 

M/s.N.T. Bcthan Chettiar&Co, 
Post Box No. 14, 

21, Mount Road, 

Coonoor-2 (Ndgiris) 

Tea-chest metal fittings 

Brand : ‘NTB\ 

IS: 10 (Part IV)-1976 Specifi- 
cation for plywood tea- 
chests: Part IV Metal fittings 
(Fourth Revision) 




[No, CMD/55 : 2784] 



Y. S, VENKATESWARAN, Additional Director General 


, , . hereby declares the following lighthouses to be “General Light 

*Tt®T^T 3TIT TTWCTOT houses" for the purposes of the said Act, namely : — 


W) 

r| fTOfa, 1 1 TOTtf, 19 78 

vto 2145. — fam fatrfatnr, 1927(1927 tt 17) fa 

stkt 2 fa (r) fa r^torr Jr fafaR rtofit frofafaFtTOr far- 
ntt fa ^3TT7 gfairfai % fan; farttRT tfmr' fafror TOfa 

*TO%: — 

•4 


1. Deceit Naviator Chain Station at Maska (Mandvi) 

2. Decca Navigator Chain Station at Naliya 

3. Decca Navigator Chain Station at Kurangn 

4. Decca Navigator Chain Station at Dhuwao 

5. Decca Navigator Chain Station at Shirva, (Salaya) 

6. Radio Beacon at Suratkal Point 

7. Racon at Okba, 


( 1 ) ttm (jrr°sfa) Sf faro far faror 1 

( 2 ) tfffagT Sr tot faffroT far faRFTI 

( 3 ) jtrt Sr faro falfateF far faror i 

( 4 ) TOflfa Sr TOT fafaifTO %R TTOTO I 
( 5 ) fttTCRT Sf fafT fafanTO %R fawR | 

( 6 ) 'rofa Sf SfjRf fa tor i 

( 7 ) tfaffr Sf TRFT I 

[9R° rfo l-sf( 18)/78] 

rr° THTTOS tm, wn< trfTOr 

MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the 11th July 1978 

S.Q. 2145 .—In pursuance of claues (c) of section 2 of the 
Lighthouse Act, 1927 (17 of 1927), the Central. Government 


[File No, l-D(18)/78] 
S. RAMACHANDRA RAO, Under Secy. 


Urartu arfr ifaw 

(frofalATOR 5nfwro) 

Rf ffafa, 22 1978 

FPfalTO RTOTTtf 

KTO TO°2146 — fafaR TOTORffafa >J«R tfTJRT Sf ffasffafaff 

tfaftiT tot tt from: to 7^1 f , fa% RTfarffar $tott jfg; tmffar Iron 
tort | 1 to tfattro fa tor Sf ffafa sfafa fa fa£ mu fa m 
gFFT faTO fa fa fa TOFT WTS'fa RT tJSTTT TO TOFT % 30 far 
fa faro faro, frofa frora tnErroar, sfa rfffar, ffarroT famr, 
TO5TTO TO^j faf ffawT fa TOT fa fa ir to Sf ifa if i fa *fafar 
trrfa ninfa RT gwro fa fa TOT TOR RR l JTT TOT fkf^ | 



nm w ■ surft 22 , 1978/^17 31 , ibqo 


2033 


[*TPT II- -tjoff 3 ( ii ) ] 


Furfur : 

"lS. 78 Jjfl&K (39 TT>T?) T WTTR TT ^vT, 5ft 

^ftfqqtrq rttFit ( i (Vue tffsftgr afifat iftn ft m 3, 
Fit eft) 0* ) % qfapq if ftqiT () m 5 ft 4 ) jh 1 if 
'ftvfir tjwt'l)’ % fMf fmffttl 5/ Ft 'ft *18 FPTFTfi 
if qfftifatr qnft tt qr-nr | 1 ” 

2 . mftm Ft ftwt > sfty T'fT ruMf-t ft -it it 

firt-Tt ftqPT g 1 luq, ' ’ji % 8, 1 8 ftrtt , 1 04t 6 ft 'i , ftqTFT 4 1 8 1 ' ; 

i^rTWf 7ft fcFt if tt; wrift F wr srrnfiTT F4 tFft 
% U M ft r\ ^frr ft Ow u l [Fui 5n u<tidl (1 I 

[F° tugo 3 ( l 56)/7l/^» Jffo ] 

MINISTRY OF WORKS AND HOUSING 
(Delhi Development Authority) 

New Delhi, the 22nd July, 1978 
PUBLIC NOTICES 

S.O. 2146. — The following modification, which (he Central 
Government proposes to make to the Master Plan for Delhi 
is hereby published for public information. Any person 
having any objection or suggestion with respect to (he pro- 
posed modification, may send his objelcion or suggestion in 
writing to the Secretary, Delhi Development Authority, 5;h 
Floor, Vikas Minar, Inderprastha Estate, New Delhi, within 
a period of thirty days from the date of this notice, The 
person making the objection or suggestion should also give 
his name and address, 

Modification : 

Hie land use of an area measuring 15.78 hectares (19 
acres), located in the south of Engineering College 
(Indian Institute of Technology, Mchrauli Road) and 
earmarked for ‘Special Industries’ in the Master Plan, 
is proposed to be changed to ‘Special Institutions’ ”. 

2. The plan indicating the proposed modieation will be avail- 
able for inspection at the office of the Authority, 10th Floor, 
Vikas Minar, Indraprasthu Estate, New Delhi, on all working 
days except Saturdays, within the period referred to above. 

[No. F. 3(I56)/71-M.P.] 

WTToWTo 2147. — FftFr tor ftwft tfftPTT if ftHftfttM 
FFterr mF qtr firm: rtr r^f ftrit trpNfinr jfg wrftm fam 
5TRTT $ I w TfWtspf % Fftr if faff) 3trfw Ft Fft 4TFTftT 4T giTTT 
5fr tft t rrft wwfft m gwrr w arm % 30 ftr vffin; 
hftr, ft ft) fwt STfsTHi, sFt ufftsii ftntr Flu 

*ft fqftt % qift ftrfisr w if iftr $ i 5ft srfro wft 

TOTftr m gimr Si, F wrt mr tpi wtt grr nm fttft i 

TfttttFT : 

"mrmr o,363 |<ft9T (o,897 ttqnr) qtr m, Ft 

Fft T -21 (TrrqT-Fftsra) if titt f ?rqT Ft ttt 

if mftlftuai-T'fkft ( *1 i ,j ihu TOT uifFi ) gq 1 if 4 5.72 

jfftT ( ISO') Fftt mHT TTTT Tft (iftlFt ^WT 

Frfi), qftrir if qFfftrmrtTqr gr-wrft (q%y tttttt) 
tft qfiRPT if 24.38 Fftr (80') Ffft g Tr ftift rft 
it farr gflr I, Ft 'rr-ftFjrmtTrt’ ( 0.217 |° ) tft 
ftritAuft (o.i46 fft) F fttftrfimr wffii (nftfirtr 
RTfttHt)' if qfftftT qrft «pt STPm |f l” 
grfiprn: H ftftrr «fk rrat qrpftfftr ftuf if fttFf froi 
jnfSrT57T % qrqfTq, 1 oftY ftTW Ffinr, ttsstwi 

ift if Tfk tTTfET if XITT7: HFdlftd tfitfttFT ^ tTPTfft?! 411 

ft <l5T7T fiftgT 5fT dTifl 1 ^ ( 

[tfo tftSo 3 ( 9 6 ) / 7 7-l|° tffo] 

sw sttnr, trftrr 


S.O. 2147. — The following modification, which the Cen’ral 
Government proposes to make in Ihe Master Plan for Delhi 
is hereby published for public information. Any person 
having any objection or suggestion with respect lo the pro- 
posed modification, may send his objection or suggestion in 
writing to the Secretary, Delhi Development Authority, 5th 
Floor, Vikas Minar, Indraprastha Estate, New Delhi, within 
a period of thirty days from the date of this notice. The 
person making the objection or suggestion should also give 
his name and address. 

Modification : 

“The iund use of an urea, measuring about 0.363 hect, 
(0.897 acre) falling in Zone A-21 (Jama Masjid 
Area), bounded by commercial use (Jajpat Rai Mar- 
ket) in the north, 45.72 mis. (150 ft.) wide Master 
Plan Road (Netaji Subhash Marg) in the east, re- 
creational land use (Parade Ground) on the south and 
24.38 mts. (80ft.) wide Esplanade Road in the west, 
is proposed lo be changed from ‘recreational’ (0,217 
hectare) and ‘circulation’ (0.146 hectare) use to 
‘commercial’ use’ (Cycle Market).” 

2. The plan indicating the proposed modification will be 
available for inspection at the office of the Authority, 10th 
Floor, Vikas Minar, Indraprastha Estate, New Delhi, on all 
working days except Saturdays, within the period referred 
to above. 

[No. F. 3(96) /77-MP] 
KRISHNA PRATAP, Secy. 


mnT RWHTO 

(sw my *hf) 

*ft ftwfr, 6 5|wf, 1978 


VT 0 XIT 0 2148. — Trtmm (!T^^im7T4(ft5pfftPTT%fiTtT Sfiffit) 

fFm, 1976 F firtm 10 ( 4 ) F tftfr fftft yrmfV yrmrcr if 


17 ^rft, 1076 «sf wfogftm ftmr mrr % t^yro Rfagfmr 
fw TTETT I ftr w ’ffi % WTEt Tq 4>Ktftftf, ftpf W flfa- 

gw qfffw if fiftawr mrr Jf, % qufmftiff % f^f it 

<N4<trSPF !tFT STITT VK fw | 1 

'rftfros 

ymyvim iw wftw 



^ u 3ftl J fTRT?^TTt TT ifH 

iJWtHT 

1 



2 

3 

1 . 

w^m 

V^ifC 

RTift 

2 . 

a 

11 



3 . 

tt 

ji 

'jftsrjT 


4 . 

)/ 

n 

'H7TJT 


5 . 

tt 

17 

fgTTTfT 

fifTTnrr 

6. 

it 

II 



7. 

a 

11 


tiftr 

8. 

t> 

>1 

uftr 

Ttftf 

9. 

V 

It 

fipet: 

1W5 

10. 

11 

11 

34455 


1 1. 

II 

11 


RTTT 

12. 

71 

17 

sfftFtr 

4fTftc 

13. 

II 

11 

5 R 55 (irnffir) 

TTTJT 

14, 

i I 

11 

TFfk 


15. 

ft 

11 

Trirft nrsftjt; 

Trrft TTJftjy 

16. 

it 

11 


‘sff’f’nmn: 



2034 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 


[Part II — Sec. 3 (ii)] 



17. Ip*! 5 !* ! 6T*TfTFT 30PJT ipffrH ^HTJT 

18. Tt5T ITOX* 5 *, WJT 

19 . „ „ fe# fo# 

20 . „ „ wnrrr 

21. „ „ 

22 . „ „ ***? **** 

23. !TT ^ ^PUTT TO’Tff 3r#lT 

24. „ „ „ 5 !^T 

25 . TH IW OT 1 o t\ a ITTT -4 sftWJT ^fWJT 


gnx sir ii* ntVn 


l. ir>T5f Tnrfpnr, ro* 

?Tfll'T3» 

2. 




3. 

H i? 



4. 

11 TJ 

"TTFHT 

•TTFTJT 

5. 

II 17 

fMTijirra 

!*nfT!TT 

6- 

11 II 

titm# 


7- 

11 11 

W3TTT 

4TFTTT 

8. 

II II 

ifrwj* 

TTT’TJT 

9. 

10- 

1) 11 

IT II 

TJTTTTCTT 

HTIBHT4 

yfrft 

11. 

II 11 

w# 5 *?. 


12. 

11 11 



13. 

11 11 



14. 


i n py 


IS. 

11 II 


■*i -\ 

n*lldlM 

16. 

11 u 


wt# 

17. 

11 11 

ifNrr 

ifiwr 

18. 

11 11 

VTTWTf 

wrw 

19. 

11 11 

jT!mr 

!WFT? 

20. 

11 11 

#mgr 

TftflTJT 

21. 

It 11 


<ft#t 

22. 

11 11 


flTOtfT 

23. 

II 11 

IPJTT 

j FJTT 

2 4. 

tl 11 


!T# 

2 5. 

17 II 


tYpjt 

26. 

11 11 

aiTRT 

*rm 

27. 

11 11 

£?ft ir$*ra 

S?rt 

28. 

II 11 

Tift# 


29- 

II 11 

TFT 4 741 

TOT## 

3 0. 

11 11 

fastrmf 

fo#<FT? 

31. 

ii n 

TTFTJT irOfipT 


32- 

n u 

^RTW^T 


3 3- 

u ii 

fcrforr 

^ Cl r r 

*rrtvn 

3 4. 

n ii 

Tf^TTT 

!TT!T 

3 5. 

n a 


TTTftjT 

3 6. 

n a 


Fnfar 

3 7. 

ii n 

SWTS ) 

tt^ts 

38. 

n ii 

f!!#T 

f#r#T 

39 

ii ii 

srftnrr 

!f#TT 

40. 

ii ii 

Wf 


41. 

ii u 

TrfWWT! 

iTrf#rr!T* 

42. 

ii ii 

#Tt 

Of# 

4). 

h ii 

ijTf'PR'f'rr 

^r*vi«k 



^ fTV H^T ^T®1^ 


1. 

cfto TTOPf, 


2. 

IT l#l q 1 * 

T^T^R 

3. 

sff -H g 8^T, M<9*T3> 

<i <9 *1 

4 

o 5ft o Thstl , ^T|[R'TJT 

TnfTCTJT 


5. 

TfTT ifJTST, *mfr 

Kt# 

6. 

#a ITT! 5 *, ifrar^r 

tjw !Twnrr 

iftTTTJT 

1. 

W !FTTT, TfWRi; 

M '3 'T T 

2. 

1 1 11 

T.T6^T 

!T!T hI%W, ft|(fTT 

vrTjr 

1 

irw fin#FT 


'TC'F 

2 

11 U 

Tt# 

Tt# 

3 

11 ii 

WTUT 

WTTT 

4 

n 11 

TTPT'TrjT 

WFTffTT: 

5 

11 11 

^irrTT 

##?tft 

6 

11 1 1 

irrwr 

'TT#TT 

7 


TTqT 

iFTT 

R 

1 1 11 

^Tftwnr 

^TUft^TT 

9 


(FTUTT 


10 

W 11 

ijih 

#k 

1 1 

IT H 

*it 

JJSPTOTTT 

1 2 

Tl 1! 

^Ptvt 

ofimr 

1 

Tl 11 

vrr^TCTq 

WTO 

1 

TT Tl 

#®fmwr?rr 


15 

Tl IT 

irnit’Ty: 


1 

H 11 

TT?# 

Tl?# 

17 

Tl 11 

ft^rra- 

HT^nTpr 

1 

11 1) 

*T<*I4T 

ft^rr 

19 

H J! 

Tmrcft^r 

KTTT#JT 

21 

IT 71 

9i*r»T 


2 

IT 71 

*106 4W 

#[6TFT 

2 

TT 77 

Tfnrr* 

TftTTTT 

2 

17 II 

iffTmanr 

fltriTTTfFT 

2 

^flTT VrWTi ’TJ'TT 

q-ffirr 

2 


TjsmiTJT 


-pp (rRoiTiToiTiio jpi!!* I'prt^tff *rr *ft jjwotit 


1 - #0 R»W 


W 

2 . #0 O' 0 !?* 


TCTT 

3. # °€t 0 9 u * "1 


92:fTT 

4. ^ 0 H y 8<1 


1JW5TJT 

5 . r^o# 0 TTiyw 


TTTOTtJT 

iroi srtn jut hI%« 


#o ipssT *rr oro jjwfttt 


1- 

TT<WT 

% 

* 

^TOTJT 

2- 



T#T 

fTftT 

3- 

11 

17 

#Tr^ 

•irtoor 

4. 

1 1 

77 

TFT3T 

TW^T 

5. 

77 

71 

farrrjpjT 

f#rmr 

6- 





7 . 



f#!!TTT 

f#WTT 

8- 


II 

WTUT 


9- 

J T 

II 

Trrrf#rT 

i*rf#iT 

10- 

71 

1 1 

*jf!T 

?T#TWn 

1 1- 

! J 

17 

TrWFT 

TTTfTTIT 

12. 

77 

1 7 

TOFT! 

TT1F1T 

13. 

17 

J 1 

TTTT 


14. 

17 

1 1 

7TTTT 

’TFIT 

1 5. 

77 

11 

wrqr 

HW T9T 

16. 

77 

1 1 


if«!TT 

1 7. 

1 7 

1 7 

5 3TTT 

^iRTPJT 

18. 

19. 

IT 

II 

17 

77 

#ftT 

tn 

-HiyK 

20. 



3TTTT^TT 

yrarmr 

21. 


7 7 

TTftfST 

lTf#5T 



2035 


[funn U.—’tfR 3 (ii)] 


■fl'm 97 TfU'TW. 2 2, 197 SI, 19 00 


2 2- TT 1 "?^ 976 f c-1 0 X P'^ 1 

23. ^'L^sOpc ^57 JW ^797 J7"3cT TTTPTJT 

2 4- XTr$< 3 $)‘ 3 ,, ,, ,, „ ULLt 

2 5. irq-ofR ,, ,, ,, ,, tftaw 

2 6. ![R4» ,, ,, ,, „ <WV 

3*R TfaW* »WI TTfWR 


i . jrir KRuf^nr, wx*t? 77 *7**7*n 


2- 

,, ,, ftpTTTT 

farw 

3- 

,, ,, u‘4im''7rr 

tjTTKTprr 

4- 

„ ,, TJSTTra 

wtto 

5- 

„ M 

^TftTTT: 

6- 

1 , II f?7TT7 

ffPTtT 

7. 

„ „ 9R67TT 

TRRrtT 

8. 

,, n 


9- 

,, m Tt^W, 

TTfFPTi 

1 0- 

,, ,, ttRPt 

rfRRT 

1 1- 

1 M Dfll xr u s9 , 



iVo ipiTw, Hifr fkwfr 

f^f) 

1 2. 

tr^o OTTs rr®¥tT, W*^7<T7 

wrqTcTT 

13- 

3V7t ^7^ sT°b i s, ST^AitTT 

*FWT7T7 


TUJIRTPT ^HftT TTfVrT 


1. 

?TR TTirsH, WafiR 

KIRTR 

2. 

„ 

^ffKTJT 

3. 

„ a 


A. 

„ ,, affair 


5- 

,, ,, swjt: 


6- 

1 1 


7- 

II ,, '•fl'TT'lH’R 

'4'rrrqRrr< 

8- 

q?PT vm Tfrtry; 

sfrSRT 


2 3 


wu 5rt»t t7tNtr 


1. 

cTlX T T l] ^5-i , ufaFTTT! 


2. 

mr F'tft, tptjt 

7WJT 

3. 

ttr tprr, iqrfeTrr 

nrrfaraR 

4. 

rTR TPR6T, % -7*1 ; 

jvrh; 

5. 

TTR TPWW, TfpTM 

sfrTTtT 

G. 

TTR tprtt, 

ffMWJf. 

7. 

clR h M l < 

TtlfTR 

8. 

frl i. TT^Wj 


9. 

rfiffi TT'RR, ’•fr'TRT 

ITT TFT 

i 0. 

rfr-T TT’RR, 9t'7TT T R 

T’iTM’TT 



Tf>*77 ^Rt*R T7HP7 

1- 

7TR JR5T7, iftXigTtTT 

^’F«^T?TT 

2. 

,, ,, fwiHtri 

frnmT 

a. 

,, „ 


4- 

a i, fftTTR 

fetR 

5. 

,, j , bIJjviMI 

tnhrrsrr 

«. 

tpri^r, uRgi'^rt 




[TT 13 i 19 01 / 6i 7 ri-fl'Tfr-f] 


if W Tu^r f m, fairer ( f^f?V ) 

MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 
(P & T Board) 

New Delhi, the 6th July, 1978 


tffir srt*T itwnr nfaw 


1- M'JSCI , 

^rft 

2- „ 



3- „ 

,, VPRT 

murr 

4. ,, 

,, *IT5 

iR5 

5. ,, 

,, ?5ITtJ|4|l4 

T^TjrTTr? 

6- ,, 

,, TiTT^r. 

+nq7; 

7- „ 

,i 

^RT^f 

8- ,, 

„ TflL^qT; 


9. ,, 

„ TJ.TRHTT 


10. „ 

„ '-fhRT (jwffipr) 

'’ftffiR 

1 1. „ 


TT6 ITffiR 

12- ,, 

,, ^rffTTRr 

’T'T) el is-i 

1 3. „ 

a STtfW^ 

«pfrrif 

1 4. TiM ^TTTTr 

'tTPRT 

1 5. ,, 

,, TTRRRf) 

qRTTITff 

1 6. ,, 

,, l^T^RTT 

^TT^TSTIT 

1 7. fl T' r 5t’T ni'<^ <1 <9 M 



%1V TTTr»R 


1. ?TR ffiRTT, tRqr 

7367 

2. qffq ipr*R, TW 

LRff 

3. qR TRSW, ^TtWrjt; 

rj^fT’TR'R 

4. <tr tprtt, ffirr 

W 

5- 3R tT®W, tRvfTIT 

TOfTTT 

6. TTR tT l W5r j 3prr»Rqr 

'4771849,4 

7. OR XR3TT, ffiTTR 

tm «u^ 

8. HR R71TT, mJRT'JT: 

S7TTTRJ7 

9. Mfq WR SR rRTrr 

93771 


S.O. 2148 , — In operation of Rules 10(4) of the Official 
Languages fuse for Official purposes of the LJnion) Rules, 
1976, as published in Gazette of India on 17-7-1976, it is 
hereby notified that the staff of offices under this Board, as 
shown in the appendix to Notification, have acquired a work- 
ing knowledge of Hindi. 

Rajasthan Postal Circle 


SI. Name of the Divisional Headquarters 

No. Offices 


1 , Divisional Office, 

2 . 

3. 

4. 

5 . 

6 . 

7, 

8 . 

9 . 

10 . 

1 1 . 

12 . 

13 . 

14. 

15 . 

Ifi. 

17- 

18, Railway Mail Divn 

19 , 

20 , 


Ajmer 

Jaipur 

Jodhpur 

Bharatpur 

Bhilwara 

Chittorgarh 

Kota 

Pali 


Ajmer 

Jaipur 

Jodhpur 

Bharatpur 

Bhilwara 

Chittorgarh 

Kota 

Pali 


Sikar 

Sikar 

Udaipur 

Udaipur 

Alwar 

Alwar 

Bikaner 

Bikaner 

Jaipur 

Jaipur 

(Rural) 


Nagore 

Nagore 

Sawai Madhopur 

Sawai Madhopur 

Shriganganagar 

Shrigan ganagar 

Jaipur Mulfasil, 

Jaipur 

Jaipur 

Jaipur 

Delhi 

Delhi 

Agra 

Agra 



2036 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part IT— Sec. 3(ifi] 


SI. Name of the Divisional Offices 

Headquarters 

No. 



21. Railway Mail Divn. 

Rewari 

Rewari 

22. 

Ajmer 

Ajmer 

23. Postal Store Depot 
Dn. 

Ajmer 

Ajmer 

24. 

Jaipur 

Jaipur 

25. Railway Postal S.T. 

Dn. 

Jodhpur 

Jodhpur 

U.P. POSTAL CIRCLE 


1, Lucknow 


Lucknow 

2. Meerut 


Meerut 

3. Dehradun 


Dehradun 

4. Kanpur 


Kanpui 

5. Allahabad 


Allahabad 

6. Varanasi 


Varanasi 

7. Agra 


Agra 

8. Gorakhpur . 


Gorakhpur 

9. Moradabad . 


Moradabad 

10. Rohilkhand 


Bareilly 

11. Aligarh 


Aligarh 

12. Saharanpur , 


Saharanpur 

13. Fatehgarh 


Farukhabad 

14. Faizabad 


Faizabad 

15. Kumaon 


Nainital 

16. Bundclkhand 


Jhansi 

17. Gonda 

. 

Gonda 

18. Azamgarh 


Azamgarh 

19. Pratapgarh 


Pratapgarh 

20. Sitapur 

a a 

Sitapur 

21. Pauri . 

. 

Pauri 

22. Almora 

a 

Almora 

23. Mathura 


Mathura 

24. Basti . 


Basti 

25. Jaunpur 


Jaunpur 

26. Banda . 


Banda 

27. Tehri Garwal 


Tehri 

28. Chamoli 


Gopeshwar 

29. Raibareilly 


Raibareilly 

30. Pithoragarh 


Pithoragarh 

31. Kanpur Muffasil . 


Kanpur 

32. Bulandshahar 


Bulandshahar 

33. Deoria 


Deoria 

34. Etawah 


Etawah 

35. Ghazipur 


Ghazipur 

36. Mirzapur 


Mirzapur 

37. Lucknow (M) 


Lucknow 

38. Bijnore 


Bijnore 

39. Ballia . 


Ballia 

40. Badaun 


Badaun 

41 . Ghaziabad 


Ghaziabad 

42. Kheri . 


Kheri 

43. Muzaffarnagar 


Muzaffarnagar 

R.M.S. Divisional Office 


1. K.P. Division 


Kanpur 

2. A 


Allahabad 

3. O 


Lucknow 

4. MB 


Saharanpur 

5. X 


Jhansi 

6. G . . , 


Gorakhpur 

Head Post Offices 

1 . Head Post Office . 


Lucknow 

2. Head Post Office . 


Kanpur 


BIHAR POSTAL CIRCLE 


SI . Name of the Divisional Offices 

No. 

Headquarters 

1 . Patna City .... 

Patna 

2. Ranchi ..... 

Ranchi 

3. Saran ..... 

Chapra 

4. Bhagalpur .... 

Bhagalpur 

5. Champaran .... 

Motihari 

6, Darbhanga .... 

Darbhanga 

7. Gaya 

. Gaya 

8. Hazaribagh .... 

. Hazaribagh 

9. Dhanbad .... 

Dhanbad 

10. Monghyr .... 

, Monghyr 

1 1 . Muzaffarpur .... 

Muzaffarpur 

12. Purnea ..... 

Purnea 

13. Sahabad .... 

Arrah 

14, Santhal Parganas . 

. Dumka 

15. Jamshedpur .... 

Jamshedpur 

16. Saharsa .... 

Saharsa 

17. Rohtas ..... 

Sasaram 

18. Nalanda .... 

Bihar Sharriff 

19. Samastipur .... 

Samastipur 

20. Palamau .... 

Daltonganj 

21. Begusarai .... 

Begusarai 

22. Si wan .... 

Si wan 

23. Aurangabad .... 

Aurangabad 

POSTAL STORES DEPOT 

24. Patna 

Patna 

25. Muzaffarpur .... 

Muzaffarpur 

R.M.S. DIVISION 

1, G Division .... 

Gaya 

2. P „ ... 

Patna 

3, PT 

Patna 

4. U 

Muzaffarpur 

5 . NB 

Samastipur 

MADHYA PRADESH POSTAL CIRCLE 

1. Jabalpur .... 

Jabalpur 

2. Indore ..... 

Indore 

3. Bhopal ..... 

Bhopal 

4. Raipur .... 

Raipur 

5. Bilaspur .... 

Bilaspur 

6. Rewa ..... 

Rewa 

7, Chhindwara .... 

Chhindwara 

8. Malwa .... 

Ujjain 

9, Gwalior .... 

Gwalior 

10. Narmada .... 

Hoshangabad 

11 , Ratlarn .... 

Ratlarn 

12. Raigarh .... 

. Raigarh 

13. Guna ..... 

. Guna 

14, Saugor .... 

. Saugar 

15. Ghhatarpur .... 

Chhatarpur 

16. Khandwa .... 

Khandwa 

17. Bastar ..... 

. Jagudalpur 

18. Durg 

. Durg 

19. Sehore .... 

Sehore 

20. BaJaghat .... 

. Balaghat 

21. Shahdol .... 

Shadol 

22. Chambal .... 

Morena 

23. J.B.L. R.M.S. Division . 

Jabalpur 

24. ID „ „ . 

Indore 

25. M.P. „ . . 

Bhopal 

26. R.P. >* „ . . 

Raipur 



[wir tl-wus 3 (ii)] 


WITR H>T TTWRCWRl^ 22, 1 978/WTT1I 31, 1900 


2037 


north west postal CIRCLE 


NORTH WEST TELECOM CIRCLE 


SI. Name of Divisional Offices 

No. 

Headquarters 

Sk Name of Divisional Offices 

No. 

Headquarters 

1. Ambala 

2. Simla 

3. Dharmsala 

4 Gurgaon 

5. Hamirpur 

6. Hissar . 

7. Karnal . 

8 . Mandi . 


. Ambala 
. Simla 
. Dharmsala 

Gurgaon 

Hamirpur 
. Hissar 
. Karnal 

Mandi 

1. Telegraph Division, Ambala 

2. ,, Simla 

3 . „ Rohtak 

4. „ Hissar 

5. „ Dharmashala 

6. Phones Division, Ambala 

Ambala 

Simla 

Rohtak 

Hissar 

Dharmashala 

Ambala 

9. Rohtak 

10. Solan . 


Rohtak 
. Solan 

[No. 

E.1901/6/76-Hindi-A] 


R.M.S. Division 

1, D. Division 

2. HR 

Postal Stores Depot 


New Delhi. 
Ambala 


1 . Ambala 


Ambala 

RAJASTHAN TELECOM CIRCLE 

1 . Telegraph Division 

Ajmer 

Ajmer 

2. 

Jodhpur 

Jodhpur 

3. 

Jaipur 

Jaipur 

4. 

Bikaner 

Bikaner 

5, 

Udaypur 

Udaypur 

6. 

Bharatpur 

Bharatpur 

7. 

Shriganganagar 

Shriganganagar 

8. Phones Division 

Jodhpur 

Jodhpur. 

BIHAR TELECOM CIRCLE 

1 . Telegraph Division, 

Patna 

Patna 

2. Phones Division, 

Ranchi 

Ranchi 

3. Telegraph Division, 

Mujaffarpur 

MujaiTarpur 

4 . 

Gaya 

Gaya 

5. 

Darbhanga 

Darbhanga 

6. 

Jamshedpur 

Jamshedpur 

7. 

Dhanbad 

Dhanbad 

8. 

Bhagalpur 

Bhagalpur 

9. Central Telegraph 

Patna 

Patna. 

Office, 



MADHYA PRADESH TELECOM CIRCLE 

1 , Telegraph Division 

Jabalpur 

Jabalpur 

2. 

Raipur 

Raipur 

3. 

Gwalior 

Gwalior 

4. 

Indore 

Indore 

5. 

Bhopal 

Bhopal 

6. 

Bilaspur 

Bilaspur 

7. 

Sagar 

Sagar 

8. 

Ujjaln 

Ujjain 

9, Phones Division, 

Bhopal 

Bhopal 

10, 

Jabalpur 

Jabalpur 


U. P. TELECOM CIRCLE 


1. Telegraph Division, 

Barcily 

Barcily 

2. 

Lucknow 

Lucknow 

3. 

Agra 

Agra 

4. 

Meerut 

Meerut 

5. 

Allahabad 

Allahabad 

6. 

Kanpur 

Kanpur 

7. 

Dehradun 

Dehradun 

8. 

Gorakhpur 

Gorakhpur 

9. 

Moradabad 

Moradabad 

10. 

Shrinagar 

Shrinagar 


(Garhwal) 


11. 

Saharan pur 

Saharan pur 

12. 

Nainital 

Nainital 

13. 

Aligarh 

Aligarh 

14. Phones Division 

Agra 

Agra 

15. 

Varanasi 

Varanasi 

16. 

Allahabad 

Allahabad 

1 7. Central Telegraph 

Lucknow 

Lucknow 


Office, 


M. N. SINGH, Director (Hindi) 
tO^HTf, 19 78 

TToWTo 2149- — TRTtfl EWT 6 2 7, fcRTRT 8 RtW, 

i 9 60 sttt trrq; faR rf wroftw rr fro, 19 51 % (rrr 434 
% ITT III % iftr (w) % WRWTC VTW-RR RgTffi^TT % t^WT 
%rt Jr 0prr>F i-s-78 Jr sprifira srwrtfl wir. rrr *rt 
fr»WR ferr 1 1 

[wr 5 - 3/7 S rfloT^'ar »fr] 

WRorfro Tirforr.RlTtrT ('ftotfWolft) 

New Delhi, the 10th July, 1978 

S O, 2149. — In pursuance of para (a) of Section III of Rule 
434 of Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, as introduced by 
S O. No. 627, dated 8th March, 1960, the Director General, 
Posts and Telegraphs hereby specifies the 1-8-1978 as the date 
on which the Measured Rate System will bo introduced In 
Khurja Telephone Exchange, LI.P, Circle. 

[No. J-3/78-PHB] 
R, C. KATARIA, Asstt. Director General (PHB) 

WW JtWT 

Rffotft, lOWWlf, 19 78 

WToWO 215 0. — RRFTC TrwRTRT (rw % rrEtflR 
tRfDRt St ftrtf SRCT) fmm 19 76 $ fTqW 10 % RR-fttrW 
(4) * WTTPM Jr ftTWfwfWR tMfPTT % RUT WJ WW RtSTWR 
% WEffarw TRfatr stIr-ict % tpfmdlr % fwtr, trftjgf^r 

WRfr?T: — 

1. "frjftrr fHTFR tfWrfRRi wiwrw *r ww rtthtwit Ro 2, 

tPTTP^ I 

2. STWTC 'flfSTTiTW T 5T*T ^TFTWT ^fo 3, 

STOTT I 

3. sftjfftT RTTR xfWrfW WfSWTR R WIT RTTirfWtT Ro 2, 

f_ I 

4. 4. r ii R73RT StfuV sW '3' WR RThTMR, RSm 'i< I 

5. TRTR. xfrtftfipF wfanRW R WR iRTRTWR, R§ fe^ft I 

[Ro £ o 1101 7/l/78-TfVotrWofr>i] 
ij o WRT olfn, fRTtVPF 

MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 10th July, 1978 

S.O. 2150. — Jn pursuance of sub-rule (4) of Rule 10 of 
the Official Languages (Use for Official Purposes of the Union) 
Rules, 1976, the Central Government hereby notifies the 
names of the following subordinate offices under the Ministry 
of Labour, for the purposes of that sub-rule ; — 

1. Central Government Industrial Tribunal-cum-Labour 

Court No. 2, Dhanbad. 

2. Central Government industrial Tribunal-cum-I^bour 

Court No. 3, Dhanbad, 

3. Central Government Industrial Tribunal-cum-Labour 

Court No. 2, Bombay. 

4. Central Government Industrial Tribunal-cum-Labour 

Court, Jabalpur. 

5. Central Government Industrial Tribunal-cum-Labour 

Court, New Delhi. 

[No. E-l 1017/1 /78-CLT1 
V. CHANDRA MOWLI, Director 



2038 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Pari II— Sec. ?(ii)] 


trf froA, i o ^srrf, 1978 

ItToWD 2151--^2fm fiTOR, YtTOf HR HfiTO faftT 
itflr totoj wfafrott, 19 18 (1948 ur 4tt) urn 

.117 HI 3WRT ( 1 ) fTTTI TT'RT jrfatqj Tt SPfPT TO!* ftT ufA 
•fftTTT JHTR '(T.ffjt J5TT, rfk TOTTO (“TO 

Aietk Iron ) t) qfspfT'Tr to tto sit o 4 ooh Rr^par 21 

TOEiR, 1 9 v 2 Yf ufTOrR TOTf Z n , 10 TJHrf, 19 78 ?T TO 

tf'ii jrfro RRfft J froffi HfRl^ftr^r ^rIte Tffif, hhIr : — 

1 . JTfTT, TOTH RTTIT XHT TOTHR, R& flfTt HSRW 

2- IJtRJTI, HR T'fRCR bl fit XTiRm PR ITT R^R u J Xj T 

TOFR 

3. TTRHttITO, tftRTO IWfi R$ fciA ^ 

4. TtRRt hr term srrtr y _p_r r 

5. %Rf)H Vf fa^T fREt 5RT£pfK, R^ J 

fi . TO kTT^tE, fffiTlT, TORT 3 

7. ^fTO, TO fTTOT, ifaTOT TOPT TOT IT 

'ii<?i 4 hYir 

8i to tore, rsrr^jt, vrIt 

9 . TO TOfrE, TOr CT-R^RT TOTTT, Jr T I flTR 
1 0. 7TR TO TORTE, RgRT 1 ^ TOTTE, (HTOf VTTJtf JR IT' ’ 

EHur f3rf?w, jtto, ttetje RfRfjffij 

u. to totee, tAttt tortt, 'rretto 

12- XR ofto TT7T o R^TT VI M W-R A-M ll 'X f*rY 
JIT, TtHRiE^fT MrStT, RTRET 

fnRR.Ttat (fwt) 

13 . sft TT,TO RJfu TO 1 ?, fR^RT ( Jf. rUl *+7 ) ,1 
VT17R HttlW TtR Wltf, TfRT 'iflR, 

TOTRShT, HR5TT* (fJtrSTT) 

14. xft tSTO 0 fTOTT, RcJTyil'-tIT ( JJTOTR ) , 

iNrifrfTR fafros ^Afarr ?t° 

Ro fajpCRf, fl^JTT ffilRH (To TO ) 

15. «ft flpjo jfto ffifHTO, R^TiraJJTT'' (flTI ), 

%^'jphrWt fprfJTiTs, yjRjrr iitto, VfRtfiRTl % RffrfRfsr 
TTHf (faK) 

1 fi. xit S> RifHfffi 7PJH TtfW TOW, <Ah 
^ fvjRT fafttr, 1 0-RRTpfY JJRIR A?, 

WW - 1 

17. xfrTfiJ rr° TTO , hhwht-iw-rijr 

fRRPft Mr2t, YtRt- 

RipT TMRRfra ^TT JR, xrr f W TT^JT 

! Ri xfr Too OT3TTR, R^IRfRa, JJW «rfW 
TirtR, fR%RT Rut, Rrmni rjtjt, Ltot 
artJTTR, 'TfjRJtl RRTR 

19. ^1 0 JRpR R^R R^IRfTO, frw TOT 

JTjfPmR 1674to * ipft RTR, 

RJR^- 40 0 03 8 ^ 

20. W ’TRo ^TR R’RTi RRlRf^T, Rrafu 
TT^PT IJR TRTR 'tinUiR, TTsfar TO, 

TORTa (f^R) I alif’TTftjfi ^ Rfir- 

9] xft TO IlTOf, RRo ’2R° 7° , R^tRf^a, > OrfR 
qfsJTtfr TOTH HR TO, fHRTjA, 

TOPTO T^HTi 3 ^, fTOl RiRiJTi rItorV 
TO.H 

22. Xfl Ro sfto JJJ^TT, STTOT tTto W-TO, 

HiTR TltTJT 1?fH Ttttos, to fro- irTO, 
rttrSht, tortr, L^tj: 

03 . p 4 t RJpa jjtr, to^tt ^th ttA 

rJrrR, ¥7 TOo fHoTT RJITTi ip 

(fttfR) 

[Roifto 21012(l)/77 J flTTT l] 
TOO RRo R^HITTO, ipT rNt 


Nc v Delhi, the 10th July. 1978. 

S.O, 2151. — In e ;er;ise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (1) of section 3 A of the Ccal Mines Provic’ert Fur r.1 ard 
Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1948 (46 of 1948) are) in super- 
session of the notification of the Goverrmcnt of Frfia in tic Irtc 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Depart- 
ment of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 4008, dntid thc2l;t 
November, 1972, the Ce itral Government hereby cor st : tr tes y iih 
cTc:t from the 10th July, 1978, a Board or Trustees consist u g 
of the following persons, namely : — 

1. The Secretary to the Government of Chairman. 

India, Ministry of Labour, New Delhi . 

2. The Coal Mines Providicnt Eund Ex-Officio Member. 
Commissioner, Dhanbad. 

MEMBERS 

3. Joint Secretary, Department of Coal, 1 

New Delhi. | 

4. The Coal Mines Welfare Commissio- l Representatives of 

ncr Dhanbad, f the Central 

5. The Central Provident Fund Com- | Government, 
missioner, New Delhi. 

6. The Commissioner of Labour, Bihar, 

Patna. 

7. The Secretary, Labour Department, 

Government of West Bengal Calcutta, 

8. The Commissioner of Labour, 

Mtdhya Pradesh, Indore. 

9. The Commissioner of Labour, Go- 
vernment of Andhra Pradesh, 

Hyderabad. 

10. The Deputy Commissioner of Labour 
Government of Maharashtra, Liberty 
Cinema Building, Sadar, Nagpur. 

1 1 . The Commissioner of Labour, Go- 
vernment of Orissa, Bhubaneswar. 

12. Shri B.L. Wadebra, Chairman-cum- 
Managing Director, Central Coal- 
fields Limited, Darbhanga House, 

Ranchi. (Bihar). 

13. Shri S. N. Pandey, Director (Person- 
nel), Bharat Coking Coal Ltd., Kar- 
mik Bhawan Saraidhela. Dhanbad. 

(Bihar). 

14. Shri R.J. Sinha, General Manager 
(Coordination) Eastern Coalfields 
Limited Sanctoria, P.O. Dishcrgarh, 

District Burdwa, (West Bengal). 

15. Shri S.C. Malltck, General Manager 
(Finance), Central Coalfields Limited, 

Darbhanga House, Ranchi (Bihar). 

16. Shri O. Mahepalhi, Chief of Person- 
nel Division, Coal India Limited, 10, 

Nctaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-!. 

17. Shri B N, Raman, Chairman-cunr- 
Managing Director, Signaroni Collie- 
ries Company Limited, Kotbagudem 
Collieries Post Office, Andhra Pradesh 

18. Shri B.S. Azad, General Secretary, 

Khan Shramik Congress, Cinema 
Rond, Post Office Ukhra, District 
Burdwan, West Bengal. 

19. Dr. Shnnti Patel, General Secretary, 

Hindi Mazdoor Sabha, Nazindas 
Chambers, 167, P.D.’ Mello Road, 

Bombay-400038. 

20. Shri S. Das Gupta, General Secre- 

tary, Indian National Mino Workers 
Federation, Rajcndra Path, Dhanbad 
(Bihar) 7 Representatives of 

21. Shri Madhu Bancrjee, M. L. A., employees. 
General Secretary, West Bengal, 

Khan Mazdoor Sangh, Chinakuri, 

Post Office Sundarchak, District 
Burdwan, West Bengal- 

22. Shri A.V. Brahma, Chief Personnel 
Manager, Bharat Coking Coal Limi- 
ted, Karmik Bhawan, Saraidhella, 

Dhanbad, (Bihar). 

23. Shri Ramendra Kumar, C/o United 
Coal Workers’ Union P.O. Bhunku- 
nda, District Hazaribagh (Bihar), 

[No. V. 2 1 0 1 2( 1 )77/PFl 
S. S. SAHASRANAMAN, Dy. Secy. 



Representatives 
of the State 
Governments. 


] 


Representatives of 
Employers. 



WITH *FT 22, 19 7 s/^TTTI? 31, 1900 


2039 


[urn ll--w 3 (ii) ] 

> r -~ - 


New Delhi, the 7th July, 1978 

S.O. 2152.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Indusrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Bangalore in the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the Premier Insurance 
Co. Ld- and Canara Motor and General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Mysore and their workmen over retrenchment of Miss H. 
Kusuma and 30 others, which was received by the Central 
Government on the 23-6-78. 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL IN KARNA- 
TAKA, BANGALORE 
Bangalore, the 17th June, 1978 
Reference No. 3 of 1970 (Central) 

I PARTY 

Workmen represented by The Secretary, Premier and 
Canara Motor & General Insurance Co., Employee* 
Union, No. 68, Loco Colony, V. V, Mohalla. 
Mysore-2. 

-Vs- 

II PARTY 

The General Manager, Premier Insurance Co. Ltd., and 
Managing Director, Canara Motor & General Insu- 
rance Co., Ltd., Chittaranjan Mahal, Premier Indus- 
trial Estate, Mysore-2. 

APPEARANCES 

For the I Party — Sri M. C. Narasimban, Advocate, Ban- 
galore. 

For the II Party — Shri M. Bhoomachar, Advocate, 

Bangalore. 

REFERENCE 

(Government Order No. 40/15/70-LRJ, dated 15-5-1970) 
AWARD 

As per Order No. 40/15/70-LRI, dated 15-5-1970 issued in 
exercise of its powers conferred by Section 7A and KXlXd) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, the Central Government has 
referred the following points of dispute for adjudication to 
this Tribunal (vide G. O. No. S-11025(4)/77-D-IV(B), dated 
11/12-8-1977): 

Whether the management of the Premier Insurance Com- 
pany Limited, Mysore-2, are justified in retrenching 
four workmen, namely Miss N. Kuauma, Miss Anna- 
purna Devi, Miss Vijayamma and Mr. B. J. Manju- 
nath, with effect from 1 7th October, 1969 ? 

If not, what relief arc they entitled to ? 

2. The contention raised by the two parties in their state- 
ments arc reflected on the following additional issues framed 
in addition to the points of dispute scheduled in the Order 
of Reference for consideration : — 

1. Whether the retrenchment of the four employees 

mentioned in the order of reference is colourable 
exercise of power and resorted to by the II Party 
for collateral purposes ? 

2. Whether the employees in question were permanent em- 

ployeees of the II Party 7 

3. Whether they were employed for the work of Premier 

Insurance Co. Ltd., and the Canara Motor and Gene- 
ral Insurance Co. Ltd. ? 

4 . Whether the Premier Insurance Co. Ltd., and the 

Canara Motor & General Insurance Co. Ltd., form- 
ed one establishment ? 

385 GI/78— 12 


3. Whether the retrenchment of the employees amounts 
to victimisation for their legitimate Trade Union 
activities ? 

6. Whether the Premier Insurance Co. Ltd., and the 

Canara Motor and General Insurance Co. Ltd., arc 
functioning under the same management or under 
the management of same person 7 

7. Whether this Tribunal has jurisdiction to entertain 

the reference 7 

8. Wheher the services of the employees in question was 

superflous and if so whether the General principle 
of “Last come First go” was applied to them while 
retrenching their services 7 

9. Whether the employees in question were appointed 

temporarily and they were on probation at the time 
of retrenchment 7 

10. Whether the employees of the Premier Insurance Co. 

are governed by the provisions of the Mysore Shops 
& Commercial Establishment Act, 1961 7 

11. if so, whether this Tribunal has no jurisdiction to deal 

with the reference 7 

12. Whether there is no Industrial Dispute within the pro- 

visions of the Industrial Disputes Act of 1947 ? 

13. To what reliefs are the parties entitled 7 

3. After the II Party, who commenced the evidence by 
examining MW-l M. Ranganathan, Manager and Claims 
Officer of the II Party, on 2-11-1976 and reported on 26-11-77 
that it has no further evidence, the case was posted for the 
evidence of the I Party and it underwent several adjournments 
for this purpose. Finally, on 21-4-1977 as it was fohnd that 
the I Party-workmen as well as their counsel is consistently 
absent and that sufficient opportunity has been given to the 

I Party to adduce its evidence, it was directed that the case 
be proceeded with and the arguments be heard. Subsequently, 
the I Party’s counsel sought adjournments on two occasions 
saying that he has written to the X Party workmen and that 
they have not turned up. When the case was taken up on 
7-6-1978, the I Party’s counsel submitted that the reference 
is not pressed and that he has no arguments to be addressed, 
as the workmen concerned have been observed elsewhere. The 
case is posted to 17-6-1978 for orders. 

4 . Points of dispute and the Issues Nos. 1 to 6, 8 and 9 : — 
It is clear from the evidence of MW-1 Ranganathan that the 
four workmen in question were temporary workmen appointed 
on probation by the II Party to clear the arrears between 
May and August 1969, the insurance business having been 
closed in June 1969. The evidence of MW-1 Ranganathan 
stands uncontroverted in this behalf. It is also seen from the 
evidence that at the time of retrenchment, when the four 
workmen who were last appointed were the first to go, one 
month’s wages in lieu of notice was paid to each one of them 
as per Exts. Ml, M2, M3 and M4 receipts passed by them 
MW-1 Ranganathan has finally sworn that the n Party con- 
cern continues to be in existence, it is only for the purpose 
of settling the last claim amount, the writing business having 
been completely stopped as a result of nationalisation in May 
1969 and that at the time of his examination before this 
Tribunal, there were only 2 persons, namely, himself and 
one clerk, attending to the work of the II party, As indicated 
above, (he I Party besides not controverting the evidence of 
MW-1 or adducing the evidence on its behalf has not made 
any attempt to show that the I Party workmen are entitled 
to any relief. The circumstance that the I Party workmen 
must have taken up employment elsewhere and are not 
interested in pressing the reference has also to be borne in 
mind. I hold that the four workmen were employed by the 

II Party and not by the Canara Motor and General Insurance 
which is a different concern under a different management, 
that the said four workmen were not permanent employees 
but were only appointed temporarily on probation, that they 
were retrenched on the ground that there was no sufficient 
work to keep them engaged, that the principle of last come, 
first go, has been applied and one month’s wages has been 
duly paid as compensation and that, finally, their retrench- 
ment in not colourable excercise of the II Party’s power for 
collateral purposes or amounting to victimisation for their 
trade union acivities. I hold that the I Party workmen are 
not entitled to any reliefs. The point of dispute and additional 



2040 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 

issues Nos. 1 to 6, 8 and 9 are held in favour of the II Party 
and against the I Party. 

5. Issues Nos. 7, 10, 11 and 12: — Issue No. 10 covering 
the contention of the U Party that the 1 Party workmen arc 
governed by the Mysore Shops & Commercial Establishment 
Act and Issue Nos. 7, 11 and 12 covering the contention 
that on that account this Tribunal has no jurisdiction as well 
as Issue No. 12 covering the II Party’s contention that there 
is no industrial dispute arising under the Industrial Disputes 
Act are rejected as not arising for consideration in view of 
the findings on the remaining Issues, 

6. In the result, the Reference is rejected holding that the 
I Party workmen are not entitled to any reliefs, 

F. L. F. ALVARES, Presiding Officer 
[F. No, 40/15 /70-LR-I/D. II. A] 

S.O. 2153. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov- 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Madias in the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the management of 
Catholic Syrian Bank, Kunnamkulnm and their workmen 
over denial of special Allowance lo Shri Thambi Vcrghese 
which was received by the Central Government on the 
30-6-78. 

BEFORE THIRU K. SELVARATNAM, B.A., B.L„ 

Industrial Tribunal, Madras 
(Constituted by the Central Government; 

Tuesday, the 13th day of June, 1978 

Industrial Dispute No. 1 of 1977 

(Tn the matter of the dispute for adjudication under 
section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 

1947 between the workmen and the Management of 
Catholic Syrian Bank Limited, Trichur). 

BETWEEN 

The workmen represented by 

The General Secretary, Catholic Syrian Bank Employees 
Union, Central Office, Post Box No. 1, Trichur 
(Kerala). 

AND 

The Chairman, Catholic Syrian Bank, Head Office, 
Trichur (Kerala). 

REFERENCE 

Older No. F. No. L-12012/165/76-D.H.A, dated 24th 
December, 1976 of the Ministry of Labour, Gov- 
ernment of India. 

This dispute coming on this day for hearing upon 
perusing the reference, claim and counter statements and 
all other material papers on record and upon hearing of 
Thiru S. Rantaswami, Advocate for the workmen and of 
Thiru C. Lakshminarain, Advocate for the Management and 
the counsel for the workmen having filed a letter dated 
8-6-1978 from the Management to give special allowance 
attached to the post of Head Clerk and recording the 
same, this Tribunal made the following. 

AWARD 

This is a reference by the Government of India under 
Section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for 
adjudication of an industrial dispute between the Manage- 
ment of Catholic Syrian Bank Limited, Trichur and their 
workmen In the matter of Special Allowance of Rs. 49 
per month paid to Thiru Thambi Verghese, Head Clerk in 
Kunnamkulam branch, 

(2) The issue under the reference is as follows : 

Whether the action of the Management of Catholic 
Syrian Bank Limited in proposing to withdraw 


1 978/AS ADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3 (ii)] 

w.e.f. 1-8-76, the Special Allowance of Rs. 49 
per month paid to Shri Thambi Verghesc, Head 
Clerk in Kunnamkulam branch of the Bank by 
their Order No. S/2/4244 /76 dated 27-7-76 is justi- 
fied ? If not, to what relief is the employee en- 
titled ? 

(3) The Union filed a claim statement, wherein they 
state as follows : Thiru Thambi Verghesc who joined the 
Bank as a Clerk on 7-2-1961 is the General Secretary of 
the Catholic Syrian Bank Employees’ Union (affiliated to 
Indian National Bank Employees Congress). He was pro- 
moted as a Head Clerk as per order dated 30-6-1973. There 
was an understanding between the Management and the 
Union that by virtue of his office of General Secretary of 
the Union, he was to be relieved of the official duties of 
the Bank in order to attend to the duties as General Secretary 
of the Union, In terms of such arrangement he was en- 
joying the facilities from 1971 onwards. Even after he was 
promoted as Head Clerk, the same arrangement continued. 
As Head Clerk he was entitled to special allowance, On 
17-5-1976, the Management wrote to Thambi Verghesc 
stating that since he was not actually working in the office 
as Head Clerk a special allowance which was being paid 
would be stopped from 15-5-1976. Later, by a letter dated 
15-7-1976 be was given option to actually functioning in the 
Bank (without doing Union work) and to draw the special 
allowance or to continue his union activities without special 
allowance. On 27-7-1976, the Bank informed him that as 
he had not exercised the option, the Speical Allowance of 
Rs. 49 plus D.A. would be withdrawn from 1-8-1976. Hence 
the dispute arose and the matter was referred to this Tribunal. 
The action of the Management is quite unjust and as such an 
Award is to be passed by this Tribunal to the effect that the 
proposed deduction is illegal, improper and unjustified. 

(4) A counter statement was filed by the Management 
contending that special allowance was paid to Thambi Ver- 
ghcse attached to the office of the Head Clerk and since has was 
not functioning as a Head Clerk and was attending to the 
Union work he would not be eligible for the special allow- 
ance Since he was not doing his special duties attached to 
the post of Head Clerk the Management was justified in 
withdrawing the special allowance to Thambi Verghesc. There- 
fore the action of the Management was just and hits to be 
upheld by the Tribunal, 

(5) A rejoinder was filed by the Petitioner-Union deny- 
ing the allegations in the counter. 

k6) On the side of the Union, W.W.l Thiru T. Srinivasa n. 
Head Clerk of the Respondent Bank, W.W.2 Thiru M, V. 
Davassy Kutty, Head Clerk and W.W.3 Thiru Thambi Ver- 
ghese, the petitioner herein were examined. Exs, W-l to W-15 
were marked on the side of the Union and Exs. M-l to 
M-18(a) were marked on the side of the Management. 

(7) When the matter was taken up for further evidence, 
the counsels on both sides who were present represented that 
the matter was settled between the workmen and the Bank and 
an award might be passed in terms of the letter sent by Ihe 
Management of Catholic Syrian Bank Limited signed by 
Chairman dated 8-6-1978. That letter was marked as Ex. C-l. 
In view of the settlement between the parlies as evidenced by 
Ex. C-l letter addressed to Thiru Thambi Verghesc to give 
special allowance attached to the post of Head Clerk, the 
reference has become infructuous and there is no need for 
further adjudication, 

(8) An Award is passed accordingly. 

Dated, this 13th day of June, 1978. 

K. SELVARATNAM, Indusrial Tribunal 
WITNESSES EXAMINED 

For workmen 

W.W.l — Thiru T. Srinivasan. 

W.W.2 — Thiru M. V. Devassy Kutty. 

W.W. 3— Thiru Thamby Vcrghese (Chief examination). 
For Management : Nil. 



[*119 II — ’sra* 3 (ii)] <TRT *PT 

\ - ‘ ' ' ' 

DOCUMENTS MARKED 

For workmen 

Ex, W-1/30-8-73 — Letter from the Management/Bank 
to the Hank at Kannamkulam sending appointment 
(Jrder of W.W. 3 as Head Clerk. 

Ex. W-2/30-6-73 — Order of the appointment to W.W. 3 
us Heud Clerk, 

Ex. W-3 /1 9-9-74— Letter from the Bank's Head Office to 
the Branch Bank at Kunnamkulam regarding absence 
of the General Secretary of the Union (copy). 

Ex. W-4/4-1 1-75 — Circular of the Bank regarding absence 
of the General Secretary of the Union. 

Ex. W-5/17-5-75 — Letter from the Bank's Head Office to 
W.W.3 withdrawing Special Allowance (copy) . 

Ex. W-6/1 5-7-76 — Letter from the Bank Head Office to 
W.W. 3 regarding full time relief from office work. 

Ex, W-7/27-7-76 — Letter from the Bank Head Office to 
W.W. 3 informing that the Special Allowance will be 
withdrawn from 1-8-76. 

Ex. W-8/23-7-74— - Letter from the Branch Bank. Kun- 
namkulam to the Head Office reporting the absence 
of W.W.3 (copy). 

Ex. W-9/27-7-74 — Reply letter from the Head Office to 
Fx. W-8 (copy). 

Ex. W-l 0/1 6-9-74 — -Letter from the Union to the 
Management requesting to mark ‘Duty’ instead of 
‘Absence’ in the Attendance Register for W.W.3 

Ex. W-l 1/28-11-75 — Circular of the Bank No. 219/75 
slating that the General Secretary of the Union will 
have to inform his Tour programme in advance to 
the Management of the Branch in which he is 
attached. 

Ex. W-l 2/ 1 9-3-76 — Memo issued to W.W.3 regarding 
his attendance. 

Ex. W-l 3/27-3-76 — Letter from W.W.3 requesting the 
Management to withdraw Ex, W-12. 

Ex. W-l 4/2 1-4-76— Letter from the Head Office of ihe 
Bank to the Branch Office, Kunnamkulam stating 
that the absence of W.W.3 from office need not be 
treated as an irregularity. 

Ex. W-l 5/1 3-1-77— Letter from the Management to the 
Union about the facility of full time relief to do 
union work. 

Ex. W-16/4-2-78 — Letter from the Bank to the Union 
prescribing methods for negotiation (copy). 

For Management 

Ex. M- 1/26-7-7 5 — Letter from the Bank to the Union 
enclosing letter dated 18-7-75 of the Indian Bank’s 
Association regarding measures to be taken during 
emergency. 

Ex. M-2/30-7-75 — Circular regarding proclamation of 
emergency. 

Ex. M-3/17-10-75 — Letter from Indian Bank’s Associa- 
tion, Bombay to all Member banks regarding Union 
work during office hours. 

Ex. M-4/6-5-76 — Letter from Indian Bank’s Association, 
Bombay to the Member Banks regarding Union work 
during office hours. 

Ex. M-5/5-7-76 — Letter from the Bank’s Head Office 
to the Kunnamkulam Branch about W.W.3. 

Ex. M-6/11-6-76 — Letter from the Indian Bank’s Asso- 
ciation, Bombay to the Member Banks regarding 
Union work during the office hours. 

Ex. M-7/2I-7-76 — Letter from the Union to the Bank 
regarding full time relief from office work. 

Ex. M-8/30-8-76 — Letter from die Indian Bank’s Asso- 
ciation, Bombay to the Member Banks regarding 
Union work during the office hours. 

Ex. M-9/ 10-9-76 — Letter from the Indian Bank’s Asso- 
ciation to the Management regarding Union work 
during office hours. 


stmt 22, 1978 3 i, isoo 2041 


Ex. M-I0/10-9-76 — Letter from the Federal Bank Ltd., 
to the Management stating that the Special Allow- 
ance has been withdrawn. 

Ex. M-I I /22-10-76 — Letter from Ihe Bank to the Indian 
Bunk’s Association, Bombay regarding Special Allow- 
ance. 

Ex. M-12/8-11-76 — Reply letter from the Indian Bank's 
Association to Ex. M-ll. 

Hx. M-l 3/20-1 1-76 — Letter from Lord Krishna Bank 
Ltd., to the Management regarding Union work 
during office hours. 

Ex. M-14/22-1 1-76 — Letter from the Federal Bank Ltd., 
to the Management regarding Union work during 
office hours. 

Ex. M-15/25-1 1-76 — Letter from the South Indian Bank 
Ltd., to the Management regarding Union work 
during office hours. 

Ex. M-l 6/27- 11-76— letter from the Bank of Cochin 
Ltd., to the Management regarding Union work 
during office hours. 

F.x. M-17/10-12-76 — Letter from the Dhanalakshmi Bank 
Ltd., to the Management regarding Union work 
during office hours. 

Ex. M-18/1 9-10-66 — Settlement on the Industrial Dis- 
putes between certain Banking Companies and 
their workmen. 

Ex. M-18(a)/12-10-70 — Settlement on wage structure 
between Indian Bank's Association and Afl-Tudia 
Bank Employees' Association. 

COURT EXHIBIT 

Ex, C-l/8-6-78 — Letter from the Bank to the Union 
station that Special Allowance is being paid. 

K. SELVARATNAM, Presiding Officer 
[F. No. L-12012/166/76-D. II. A] 

R. P. NARULA, Under Secy. 


l2WHf, 19 78 

*4o WTo 2154. — kOtK if qqTETUT iff 97 PR 
Jr "fiTTr «rr, xfWffw Ppttc xrfafbffiT, 1947 

(1947 14) 40 urn 2 $ (j) % 3 WW (vi) % 

Trapa) % 5 Ef 97<9 if, STirq HTTR % "-TU rrtnrpr qff xrftj^qqr 

wrr ti° sin 209 4 sEfqrl) 19 78 srrr tjqq 

<fr ufafrqn tpfpsrffir % fjpr 27 1978 if 

w *mr *f) qrrsrrefa % fair Rff* ifqr ftwr *tt; 

toe | f*p oftTfirer Jr Tffr «pr?mrtsr 99 

w: jtw tff trtr frrarrqftr t ftrq w^nrr 4T-rr jf; 

*bt:, m, xfhfrfTr fqqrq xrfafffiPT, 1947(1947 4 ti 14), 
sm 2 (s) % iwi (vi) w 977551 ira suer 

Tlfetfi TT TTlf T-yf9 IRTR IJWpT Tl wf«I- 

ftppf spfUrTf % fipr 27 wrf, 19 78 if B! 9TTT wt tffT 
TOTrqfEI % fat* tftT ; 39tft J ff tf5I 9,Ttff | I 

[ffo t(W° 1 1 01 7 / 3 / 78 -ifo-I (CT)] 


New Delhi, the 12th July, 1978 

S.O. 2154. — Whereas, the Central Government having been 
satisfied that Ihe public interest so required had, in pursuance 
of the provisions of sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), declared 
by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour, No. S.O. 209, dated the 4th January, 1978 the 
Pyrites Mining Industry to be a public utility service for the 



2042 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 22, 1978/ASADHA 31, 1900 [Part II— Sec. 3 (ii) 


purposes of the said Act for a period of six months from the 
27th January, 1978 ; 

And whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that 
public interest requires the extension of the said period by a 
further period of six months ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the 
proviso to sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby declares the said industry to be a public utility 
service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period of 
six months from the 27th July, 1978. 

[No. S, 1 1017/1 3/78/DI (A)} 

vro wtv 2 1 5 s. — *rr>pTT % ^ ^rtsth an% 97 fa 
if tjflr xrtrrr wbfwt *tt, tfWffbT fwi qfErfmnr, 1947 
(1947 Tt 14) mrr 2 ^ (j) % (vi) % 

srtRff *r <riTft fnstn: % «w rsispi 4 b ttfa^rr 

tfwr uro tffo 20F, tnffw 4 •44 0 , 19 78 bttt 
wxx 4 b 3 TB mfsTprapcr % tmwr % ftrtf 27 iFrrft, 1978 
if w. rrm vf >rm=rrafsr % sft* imftnf iNt 4 ffaT fattr <ht; 

rfV 7 " u vt' 1 1 4b tpt ^ riw fbx if stt 4 ?ivrrttftr 

Tt urtt iff irmrirfEr % frro trfitrr xrt wbfwx $ ; 

<rti, m , srfarbm, 1947(1947 vr 14) iff 

trot 2 $ ®°t ($) % tjtrapT (vi) % qxygtr irrr turn 


4tr Jhfhr vdr jtf, trpen: ^ Rftrftmr % 

3uff4[tff $ f^pr 2 7 wrf, i978^r®: RTtr # sVt'Frmtrfff %ftr^ 
tftv tjmfbff iftn birr wTbtx ftr?fr f; 1 

[tfo tT^o 11017 / 1 4 / 7 s-st “ I { "T ) ] 

%o xkixtr, qfaitiff 


S O. 2155.— Whereas, the Central Government having been 
satisfied that the public interest sd required had, in pursuance 
of the provisions of sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 
of the Industrial Disputes Avt, 1947 (14 of 1947), declared 
by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
ot Labour No. S.O, 208, dated the 4th January, 1978, the 
Phosphorite mining industry to be a public utility service for 
the purposes of the said Act, for a period of six months from 
the 27th January, 1978 ; 

And whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that 
public interest requires the extension of the said period by a 
further period of six months ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the 
proviso to sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby declares the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further 
period of six months from the 27th July, 1978. 

[No. S. 1 1017/14/78 /DI(A)] 
L. K. NARAYANAN, Desk Officer 


PRINTED BY THE MANAGER, GOVT, OF INDIA PRESS, RING ROAD, NEW DELHI- 110064 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI-110054, 1978 



