REGISTERED No. O r>% 






PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. i 

] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, i88» 



NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were 
December, i960 : — 

published upto the 28th 

Issue 

No. 

No. and date 

Issued by 

Subject 

153' 

G.S-R- 1527, dated 24th Decem- 
ber, i960. 

Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture. 

Amendment to G.S.R. J 
No. 1172, dated 24th | 
September, i960. 

154- 

G.S.R. 1567, dated 28th Decem- 
ber, i960. 

Do. 

Amendment to Notifica- 
tion No. 1581-Agri. of 
the late Department 
of Education, Health 
and Lands, dated ist 
October, 1931. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Maiiager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
aubmitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 


PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (i) 

General Statutory Rules (including orders, bye-laws etc. of a general 
character) issued by the Ministries of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central Authorities (other than 
the Administrations of Union Territories). 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 27 th December 1960 

G.S.R. 4 (Contract/ Amendment 35). — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (1) of Article 299 of the Constitution, the President hereby directs 
that the following further amendments shall be made in the notification of the 

CO 


2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1 961 /PA US A 17, 1882 


[Part II 


Government of India in the Ministry of Law G.S.R. 1161 dated the 1st December, 
1958 relating to the execution of contracts and assurances of property, 

In the said notification — 

1. In Part VII which relates to the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, under 
Head A, after item 6, the following items shall bo inserted, namely:- — 

"7. Contracts and other instruments relating lo the Directorate of Exten- 
sion; by the Director ( Administration ), Directorate of Extension. 

8. Contracts and other instruments relating to the Extension Education 
Institute, Nilokheri; by the Principal , Extension Education Institute, 
Nilokheri.” 

2. Part X which relates to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting shall 
be substituted for the following, namely: — 

“X. — In the case of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting: — 

1. In the case of the AH India Radio: — 

<i) Contracts and other instruments relating to the All India Radio; by 
the Director General, the Deputy Director General (Administra- 
tion) .Project Officers, Station Directors, or where there is no Sta- 
tion Director, bp an Assistant Station Director, the Deputy Direc- 
tor ( Administration ), the Deputy Development Officer (Adminis- 
tration) , All India Radio. 

(ii) Ail contracts and instruments relating to the publication of the Radio 

Journals; by the Editor or the Assistant Editor of the Radio Jour- 
nal concerned. 

(iii) Contracts to be entered into with artistes engaged by the All India 

Radio; by f he Director of News Services, the Director of External 
Services, the Deputy Director of News Services, the Administrative 
Officer News Services Division , Deputy Directors External Services, 
Assistant Station Directors, or inhere there is no Assistant Station 
Director, by the Programme Executive, or where an Assistant 
Station Director is in charge' of the Station, by the Programme 
Executive or where a Programme Executive is in charge of Auxi- 
liary studio, by the Programme Executive, All India Radio, 

2. In the case of the Press Information Bureau: — 

All contracts and instruments rcla'ing to (a) purchasse, supply and con- 
veyance or carriage of materials, stores, equipment etc., and repairs 
thereof; and (b) disposal of surplus, obsolete and waste stores; by 
the Principal Information Officer, the Deputy Principal Information 
Officer, the Assistant Principal Information Officer or the Informa- 
tion Officer, Jullundur. 

3. In the case of the Publications Division: — 

(1) All contracts and instruments relating to the writing of books, copy- 
right, etc.; by the Director or the Deputy Director ( Editorial ); 

<ii) All contracts and instruments relating to the printing and production 
of publications; by the Director or the Deputy Director (Produc- 
tion) , 

(lli) Ail contracts and instruments relating to the sale, agency, stocking etc. 
of publications; by the Director, the Business Manager or the Editor 
‘Akashwani, Awaz and Sarang’ in so far as such contracts and instru- 
ments relate to and fall within his jurisdiction. 

(iv) All contracts and agreements entered into with gazetted and non-gazet- 

ted officers whom the Director of Publications Division has the power 
to appoint for specified period of service; by the Director, Publica- 
tions Division. 

(v) Agreements for the purchase or sale of stores, and other materials (in- 

cluding waste material) ; by the Director or the Deputy Director, 
Publications Division. 

4. In the case of the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity: — 

(a) All contracts and Instruments relating to the advertisements, printing, 
publishing or issue of publications, space selling or exhibitions ana 
(b) agreements for the purchase or sale of scores, equipment and 



Sec, 5(ijl] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/P AUSA 17, 1882 3 


other materials (including waste material); by the Director or the 
Deputy Director , Advertising and Visual Publicity. 

5. In the case of the Films Division: — 

;(i) (a) Contracts to be en ered into with artistes and other persons engag- 
ed by the Films Division in connection with the production of films; 

(b) contracts relating to the processing work of the Films Division; 

fc) con racts for the sale of waste films, sweepings or other salvage 
material; 

<d) contracts for the purchase of wooden packing boxes and other 
stores; 

•(c) contracts and other instruments for the production of films for Gov- 
ernment by private producers; 

<f) contracts and other instruments relating to the purchase of films for 
the Films Division; 

(g) contracts with private distributors in India for the distribution of 

full length films released by the films Division; and 

(h) contracts for the sale of stock-shots; by the Controller of Films Divi- 

sion, Bombay. 

<fii) All contracts for supply on rentals for commercial and non-commer- 
cial exhibition, free of rentals for non-commercial exhibition, and 
sale of prints of films produced and/ or released by the Films Division; 
by the Officer in-charge of Distribution, Films Division, Bombay. 

<iii) All contracts relating to the commercial distribution of Films Division’s 
films in foreign countries; by the Controller of Films Division, Bom- 
bay or the Bead of the Chancery in the Indian Mission in the country 
in which the distributors are incorporated. 

6. In the case of the Directorate of Field Publicity: — 

(a) All contracts and instruments relating to (a) purchase, supply and 
conveyance or carriage of materials, stores and equipment and re- 
pairs thereof and (b) disposal of surplus and obsolete stores; and 
(b; all contracts with registered dramatic troupes and artistes relating 
to the Song and Drama Division- by the Director of Field Publicity, 
Regional Officers Directorate of Field Publicity, Information Officers 
Press Information Bureau while working in the Regions of Directo- 
rate of Field Publicity in Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala States. 

7. In the case of the Song and Drama Division: — - 

(i) (a) Contracts with authors of scripts for the purchase of coypright; and 

(b) agreements for the purchase or sale of stores, equipment and materials 
(including Waste material); by the Director, Song and Drama Divi- 
sion. 

<ii) Contracts with artistes; by the Director, Deputy Directors, the Admin- 
istrative Officer, Song and Drama Division, Regional Officers Directo- 
rate of Field Publicity, Information Officers Press Information Bureau 
while working in the Regions of the Directorate of Field Publicity 
in Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala States, Field Publicity Officers, 
Mass Contract Officers, Publicity Organisers, Directorate of Field 
Publicity. 

B. In the case of the Central Board of Film Censors: — 

Contracts and instruments relating to (a) purchase, supply and conveyance 
or carriage of stores, materials, equipment etc., and (b) disposal of 
waste films, paper and other obsolete stores and materials; by the 
Chairman, Central Board of Film Censors. 

$. In the case of the Research and Reference Division: — 

All Contracts and instruments relating to the 

(a) purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores, 

equipment etc.; 

(b) disposal of surplus, obsolete and waste paper; 

4c) binding of books, newspapers, etc.; and 



4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


[Part if 


(d) payment of advance subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, 
magazines, periodicals etc.; by the Deputy Director , Reseaxiffi ana 
Reference Division. 

10. In the case of the Integrated Photo Unit: — 

Ail contracts and instruments relating to the 

(a) purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, storea and 

equipment and repairs thereof; 

(b) disposal of surplus, obsolete and waste stores; and 

(c) sale of waste films, sweepings or other salvage materials; by the Chief 

Photo Officer , Integrated Photo Unit. 

11. In the case of the Film Institute of India: — 

All contracts and instruments relating to the 

(a) sale of waste films and other scrap materials; 

(b) servicing of cinematograph equipments and air conditioners etc.; and 

(c) purchase of films for the Film Institute; by the Principal, Film In- 

stitute of India. 

12. Security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants whom the 
officers specified below have the power to appoint, or their sureties, to secure 
the due execution of an office or the due accounting for money or other property 
received by virtue thereof; by the Director General All India Radio, the Deputy' 
Director General (Administration), All India Radio, the Principal Information 
Officer, the Director Publications Division, the Director of Advertising and Visual 
Publicity, the Deputy Director ( Administration ) Directorate of Advertising and 
Visual Publicity, the Controller Films Division, the Administrative Officer Films 
Division, the Director of Field Publicity, Regional Officers Directorate of Field 
Publicity, Information Officers, Press Information Bureau while working in the 
Regions of the Directorate of the Field Publicity in Jammu and Kashmir and 
Kerala States, the Director Song and Drama Division, the Chairman Central Board 
of Film Censors, the Deputy Director Research and Reference Division, the Regis- 
trar of Newspapers for India, the Principal of the Film Institute of India. 

13. Agreements or leases for the hiring of buildings required for the accom- 
modation of offices at places other than New Delhi, Simla, Calcutta and Bombay 
provided that such hiring is within his competence and that the period of lease 
does not exceed 5 years at a time; by the Principal Information Officer Press In- 
ment property; by the Director or the Deputy Director Publications Division, the 
Deputy Director ( Administration ) Advertising and Visual Publicity, the Con - 
troller Filpns Divisicm, the DlTectoT of Field Publicity, Regional Officers of the 
Directorate of Field Publicity, Information Officers Press Information Bureau 
while working in the Regions of the Directorate of Field Publicity in Jammu and 
Kashmir and Kerala States. 

14 Contracts and other instruments relating to repairs, servicing etc,, of 
equipment, motor and all other types of vehicles, bicycles or any other Govern- 
ment property; by the Director or the Deputy Director Publications Division, the 
Director or the Deputy Director (Administration) of the Directorate of Advertis- 
ing and Visual Publicity, the Controller of Films Division the Administrative 
Officer Films Division the Director of Field Publicity, Regional Officers of the 
Directorate of Field Publicity, Information Officers Press Information Bureau 
while working in the Regions of Directorate of Field Publicity in Jammu and 
Kashmir and Kerala States, the Director Scmg and Drama Division the Chairman 
Central Board of Film Censors". 

3. In Part XI which relates to the Ministry of Irrigation and Power, after 
Head C, the following Head shall be inserted, namely: — 

"D. In the case of the Ganga Discharge Circle and the Gangs Barrage Field 
Investigation Circle (subject to any limits fixed bv the Departmental 
Orders): — 

1. (a) All instruments relating to purchase. sumDly and conveyance or 
carriage of materials, stores and machine?^; 



Sec. 3(i)] THE C.A/ETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


(b) all Instrument® relating to the execution of works of all kinds con- 

nected with buildings, bridges, roads, canals; tanks; reservoirs; 
docks and harbours and embankments, generation and transmission 
of electricity and instruments relating to the construction of water- 
works, sewage works, the erection of machinery, the working of 
coal mines and bulk supply of electricity; 

(c) bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance and 

completion of works; 

-(d) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants whom the 
officers specified below have powers to appoint or their sureties, to 
secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for 
money or other property received by virtue thereof; and 

iej leases for grazing cattle on canal banks or road sides, for fishing In 
canals, for the cultivation of lands, leases of water for irrigation 
and other purposes, leases of water power and instruments relating 
to sale of grass, trees or other produce on road sides or in planta- 
tions; by Superintending Engineers, Executive Engineers, Assistant 
Executive Engineers, Assistant Engineers or Sub-Divisional Officers 

a. (a) Leases of houses, land or other immovable property provided that 
the rent reserved does not exceed Rs. 5,000 a month; 

4 D) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 
security; 

\C) agreements for the recovery of fines on account of drift wood or other 
timber passing into a canal; 

4 d) agreements relating to crossing of canals, roads and bunds; 

(e) Instruments connected with the collection 6r farming of tools at 
bridges or ferries or other means of' communication; 

U) agreements relating to the loan of tools and plant to contractors and 
others; and 

<gl contracts for catering In hostels and tiffin rooms or for the protection 
of conveyance belonging to the staff working in public buildings; 
by Superintending Engineefs or Executive Engineers. 

4. In Part XVIII which relates to the Ministry of Transport and Communica- 
tions — v 

(i) Under Head A, after Item 6, the following Item shall be Inserted 
namely : — 

“7. In the case of the Directorate General Border Roads; — 

(i) (a) Ail Instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or 
carriage of materials, stores, machinery, 'HnQ hiring of land and 
accommodation. 

.(b) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con- 
nected with camp structures and buildings, including demolition 
and site clearance of buildings, bridges, canals, tanks and reser- 
voirs, aerodromes and all instruments relating to the construction 
of water, sewage and electrical works and the erection of machinery; 

(c) security bonds for the due performance and completion of works; 

<d) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their 
sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due account- 
ing for money or other property received by virtue thereof; 

(e) all service agreements v.-ilh civilian personnel whom the officers 
specified below have powers to appoint; 

-(I) all contracts and instruments relating to (i) disposal of surplus and 
obsolete stores (other than controlled item of iron and steel 
exceeding Rs. 500/- in book value In each category and textiles) 
not exceeding Rs. 5,000/- in value in any single category, and 



6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17. 1SS2 


[P.u<r H 


(ii) waste stores; by the Director General Border Roads, 
Engineers, Independent Deputy Chief Engineers, other Deputy 
Chief Engineers with prior approval of the Director General 
Border Roads, Commanders Engineers, Commanders Task Forces, 
Garrison Engineers Works Sections, Officers Commanding Cons- 
truction Companies, or Officers Commanding Transit Depots. 

(Ii) Agreements and other instruments relating ta the taking bulk supply 
of electric energy and water from an outside source 

(a) when the annual payment in each case does not exceed Rs, 10,000/- 

by Commanders Engineers or Commanders Task forces; 

(b) when the annual payment in each case exceed Rs. 10,000/- but does 

not exceed Rs. 1,00,000/- by Chief Engineers ar Independent 
Deputy Chief Engineers; 

(c) when the annual payment in each case exceed Rs, 1,00,000/- by the 

Director General Border Roads. 

(iii) Contracts and other instruments relating to the printing of forms etc.; 

* by the Chief Engineers or Independent Deputy Chief Engineers.” 

(ii) Under Head B, in clause (i) of item 4, after the words ‘Controller of 
Mail Motor Service' the words ‘or the Controller of Telegraph. 
Traffic' shall be inserted, 

5. In Part XXII which relates to the Indian Audit and Accounts Department— 

(i) In item 4, the following proviso shall be inserted at the end, namely: — 

“ Provided that in the case of advances granted by the Government to 
the Director of Audit, Indian Accounts, London, and the Audit 
Officer, Indian Accounts, Washington, such contracts, agreements 
and other instruments may also be executed by the Comptroller 
and Auditor General of India or the Deputy Comptroller and 
Auditor General of India.” 

(ii) In item 5, the following proviso shall be inserted at the end, namely: — 

“Provided that in the case of the officers and staff under the Director of 

Audit, Indian Accounts, United Kingdom or o-f officers, and staff 
under the Audit Officer, Indian Accounts, Washington, such con- 
tracts and instruments relating to the grant of advances for the 
purchase of motor cars and motor cycles, may also bs executed 
by the Director of Audit and Audit Officer, Indian Accounts, Lon- 
don/Washington respectively." 

6 . In Part XXIII which to the territories under the administration of the 
Chief Commissioner, Delhi— 

(1) In item ’£, the list of officers authorised to execute contracts and other 
instruments mentioned therein, shall be substituted by the follow- 
ing, namely; — 

“by the Deputy Commissioner, the Chief Secretary, a Secretary, an 
Under Secretary to the Chief Commissioner or in so far as con- 
tracts under (c) are concerned, by the Land and Development 
Officer, Ministry of Works, Housing arid Supply, or in so far as 
contracts and instruments under clauses (B), (cj and (e> are con- 
cerned, by the. Development Commissioner or the Assistant. .-Deve- 
lopment Commissioner.” 

(ii) In item 6 , the following proviso shall be inserted at the end, namely: — 

“Provided that in the case of the Development Department such con- 
tracts and instruments may ulso be executed by the Assistant 
Development Commissioner.” 

[No. 17(1)/ 60-JJ, 
P. K. BOSK, Dv. Secy. 

MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 26th December 1960 

G.S.F. 5 — In o f Ihe powers confer ed by secL'ce 4 of t 1 * Foreign 

Juri '-/Action / cl 1047 ( j1 ‘, of 1‘ 47\ and ul all oH or puw rs end lion d in this be- 
half, the Central Government hereby makes the following Order na nol' r — 

1, (1) This Older may he called the Requisitioning and Acquisition Immov- 
able Properly fAnj heal 1 11 to Ihe "Hat. of rondjehorv! O’--);!, 1 (i.j!) 



Sec, S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


7 


12) It shall come into force at once. 

2. (1) The provisions of the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Pro- 
perty Act, 1952 (Act 20 of 1952), (hereinafter referred to as the said Act), are 
hereby applied to, and shall be in force in the State of Pondicherry (hereinafter 
referred to as the said State) subject to — 

(a) any amendments to which the said Act is for the time being generally 

subject In the territories to which it extends, and 

(b) the subsequent provisions of this Order, 

2, Reference in the said Act to the State Government or to a law not in force, 
or to any functionary not in existence, in the said State, shall be construed as a 
reference to the Central Government or to the corresponding law, if any, in force 
or to the corresponding functionary in existence, in the said State, as the case 
may be: 

Provided that if any question arises as to who such corresponding functionary 
is, the decision of the Central Government thereon shall be final. 

[No. 668-Eur. W/60/GP.J 
[No. 36(13)-Eur.-W/59/GP.J 
A. DAS GUPTA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 29 th December 1060 

G.S.R. 6.— The following draft of certain rules to amend the Part C States 
Prize Competitions Rules, 1956, in their application to the Union territories of 
Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 
which the Central Government propose to make in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by section 20 of the Prize Competitions Act, 1955 (42 of 1955), Is hereby 
published for the information of persons likely to be affected thereby as required 
by sub-section (1) of the said Section. 

2, Notice Is hereby given that the draft rules will be taken into consideration 
on or after the 8th February 1961, and that any objection^ or suggestion which 
may be received from any person with respect thereto before that date will be 
considered by the Central Government, 

DRAFT RULES 

1. These rules may be called the Part C States Prize Competitions (Amend- 
ment) Rules, 1961. 

2. In the Part C States Prize Competitions Rules, 1956, In Form ‘B’; after con- 
dition No. 3A, the following condition shall be inserted, namely: — 

“3B. In every prize competition the licensee shall deposit the solution, pre- 
determined by him with reference to that prize competition, in a 
sealed cover with the Licensing Authority before any publication, 
ticket or coupon relating to such prize competition is Issued by him.” 1 

[No. F. 20/25/60 P.II(P.IV] 

C. P. S. MENON, Dy. Secy. 

New Delhi-11, the 31 at December 1960 

G.S.R. 7. — In pursuance of rule 11 of the Indian Administrative Service 
(Pay) Rules, 1954, the Central Government after consultation with the Govern- 
ment of Maharashtra, hereby makes the following amendments in Schedule III 
appended to the said rules. 

2. The amendments shall be deemed to have come into force on l c t May 1960. 

Amendments 

In the said Schedule, 

(l) under the heading “A — TuCs ferrying pay 'tho”o Ih^ t : no - do p:,v of the 
Indian Adoonisb alive ,Ser> i c under the Slate Guvcinme it" rt ,h <_ud of the 
cnlr'i ctuui'l ,, Mjhorpr]p I p". th<> following shall be ctdid.- 

“Settlemenl Commissioner and 

Direclor of Land !(■ con!;: 


2250 ”; 



8 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, I96I/FAUSA 17, 1882 


[Part II 


(2) under the heading “B — Posts carrying pay In the senior time-scale of the 
Indian Administrative Service under the State Governments including posts 
carrying special pays in addition to pay in the time-scale” against "Maharashtra”, 
the following entry shall be deleted : — 

"Settlement Commissioner and Director of Land Records.” 

[No. l/128/60-AIS(II). | 

G.S.R. 8. — In pursuance of rule 11 of the Indian Administrative Service 
(Pay) Rules, 1954, the Central Government after consultation with the Govern- 
ment of Rajasthan, hereby makes the following amendments in Schedule III 
appended to the said Rules. 

Amendments 

In the said Schedule III, 

(a) Undcji the heading “A — Posts carrying pay above the time-scale pay 

in the Indian Administrative Service under the State Governments” — 
Against “Rajasthan” the following entry shall be added — 

“Commissioner for Departmental Enquiries 2250” 

(b) Under the heading "B — Posts carrying pay in the senior time-scale of 

the Indian Administrative Service under the State Governments 
including posts carrying special pays in addition to pay in the time- 
scale”— 

against “Rajasthan”, the following entries shall be added — 

“Principal, Officers’ Training School, Jodhpur. 

Director of Consolidation. 

Commissioner for Excise and Taxation" 

Labour Commissioner.” 

2. These amendments shall be deemed to have come into force with effect 
from 17th October. 1960. 

[No. l/165/60-AIS(II).] 
T. R. RAGHURAMAN. Under Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 29th December 1900 

G.S.R- 9.— In pursuance of Clause (22) of Article 366 of the Constitution of 
India, the President is hereby pleased to recognise His Highness Maharaja Shrl 
Daljit Singh as the Ruler of Idar with effect from 24th November 1960 in succes- 
sion to His late Highness Maharaja Shri Hirrfmat Singhji. 

[No. F. 3 /46 / 00-Poll. III. j 

L. P. SINGH, Addl. Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi, the 3*d December 1900 

G.SJfc. 10.— In partial modification of this Ministry’s notification No. 1/83/60- 
AIS(II). dated 3rd June, 1900, published as G.S.R'. 637 in the Gazette of India 
Part II, Section 3(1 ) dated 11th June 1960 for the figures "1650—75—1950 appearing 
against the entry “Commissioner of Police” under "Gujarat” in part (1)(I) of the 
notification, the following figures shall be substituted — 


"1450—50—1650” 


[No. 1/83/ 60-AIS(II) J 
T, C. A. SRINIVASAVARADAN, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue) 


New Delhi, the 1th January 1961 
Customs 

G.SJt. 11.— In exercise of the powers conferred bv sub-section (1) of section 
43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as In force in India and as applied 



Sec, 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


9 


to the State of Pondicherry the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendment in the notification of the Government of India, in the Ministry 
of Finance (Department of Revenue) No. G.S.R. 575 (55/F. No. 34/86/60-Cus.lV.), 
dated the 28th May, 1980, namely: — 


Amendment 

In the Schedule to the said notification, for the existing entry at Serial Number 
fil and entries relating' thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“81. All Wool Fabrics and mixed fabrics (including Hosiery) containing 
wool and synthetic fibre”. 


[No. 133/F.No. 34/297/60-Cus.IV.] 
Medicinal and Toilet Preparations 

G.S.R. 12. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Medicinal 
and Toilet Preparations (Excise Duties) Act, 1955 (16 of 1955), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby makes the following rules to amend the Medicinal and Toilet 
Preparations (Excise Duties) Rules, 1956, namely — 

1. These rules may be called the Medicinal and Toilet Preparations (Ex- 

cise Duties) Amendment Rules, 1960. 

2. In the Medicinal and Toilet Preparations (Excise Duties) Rules, 1956 — 

(a) under the heading ‘Non-Pharmacopoeial Preparations’, under sub- 

heading ‘Medicinal Preparations*, — 

(i) the entry ‘ELIXIR MELAGDINE 1 shall be omitted; and 

(ii) for the entry ‘Spiritus Limonis’, the entry ‘Spiritus Lemonis (except 
M/s. Calcutta Chemical Company’s Lemon Syrup B.P.’)’ shall be 
substituted; 

(b) under the heading ‘Non-Pharmacopoeial Preparations’, under sub- 

heading ‘TOILET PREPARATIONS’, 

(i) for the entry ‘Eau-de-Cologne (Except Tata’s Eau-de-Cologne)', the 

entry “Eau-de-Cologne (Except Tata’s, and Calcutta Chemical 
Co.’s Eau-de-Cologne)” and 

(ii) for the entry ‘Lavender Water’, the entry ‘Lavender Water (Except 

Calcutta Chemical Co.’s Lavender Water)’ 
shall be substituted. 


[No. 1-F. No. 45/5(16)/59-Opium.] 


Dangerous Drugs 


G.S.R. 13, — In pursuance of clause (a) of rule 2 of the Central Opium Rules, 
1934, the Central Government hereby makes the following amendments in the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department 
of Revenue), No. G.S.R. 1177, dated the 8th October, 1960 and published in Part 
II Section 3 (i) of the Gazette of India, dated the 8th October, 1960, namely: — • 

In the Schedule appended to the said notification, in Part I, for the entry 
in the third column against District "Gonda”, the following entry 
shall be substituted, namely — 

“Mahadewa, Nawabganj, Mankapur, Utraula, Balrampur; Gwarich and 


Digsir". 


[No. 2-F. No. 6/5/60-Opium.] 


Customs and Central Excise 

G.S.R. 14. — The following draft of rules further to amend the. Customs and 
Central Excise Duties Export Drawback (General) Rules, I960, which the 
Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred b/ 
sub-section (3) of section 43B of the Sea Customs Act. 1878 (8 of 1878) and sec- 
tion 37 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), as in force in India 
and as applied to the State of Pondicherry, is published as required by the said 
sub-scction (3) of the said section 43B for the information of all persons likely 
to be affected thereby; and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be 
taken into consideration on or after the 8th February, 1961. 



10 


TI1E GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


[I* \Rr II 


2. Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


DRAFT RULES 

1. These rules may be called the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export 
Drawback (General) Amendment Rules, 1960. 

2. In the First Schedule to the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export 
Dra.vback (General) Rules, 1960, for Serial Number 14 and entries relating 
thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“14. Staple fibre yarn 

Six rupees and five naye paise per fifty 
Kilogrammes”. 

[No. 1/F. No. 34/163/60-Cus.IV.J 

G S R. *15. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 
43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878) and section 37 of the Central Excises 
and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944) as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following further amend- 
ment in the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export Drawback (General) Rules, 
1960, the same having been previously published as required under the said sub- 
section (3) of section 43-B, namely: — - 

Amendment 

1. These rules may be called the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export 
Drawback (General) Amendment Rules, 1960. 


2. In the Second Schedule to the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export 
Drawback (General) Rules, 1960 — 

(1) for the existing item at Serial Number 60 and entries relating thereto, 
the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“50. All wool fabrics and mixed fabrics (including Hosiery) containing 
wool and synthetic fibre”, 

(ii) for the existing item at Serial Number 43 and entries relating thereto 
the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“43. Air conditioners, Refrigerators and Water coolers”, 

(ill) the existing item at Serial Number 49 and entries relating thereto shall 
be deleted. 

[No. 133/F. No, 34/297/ 60-Cus.IV.J 
M. C, DAS, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Central Excises 

New Delhi, the 7th January 1961 

GSR 16. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 

Excises and Salt Act, 1944 il of 1944), as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules 
further to amend the Central Excise Rules, 1944, namely: — 

1 These rules may be called the Central Excise (Second Amendment) Rules, 
196L 

2. In the Central Excise Rules, 1944— 

(1) in rule 174, — 

(i) in item 3(a), tb" word “and" sh'dl be omitted; 

(ii) in item 3(b), tb> ' T uj “and” shall be added at h c.4; 

[,ftr r i‘r>m 3(b' ‘be fudm' leg -ha 1 ! be m-iibJ, nruor-b — <c) All 
b.,,).,ci' o“ mL at*- b aide/ v,a-chon,c nthf ’ than tli isc in th- licensed 
:m cr» i*l in i.v 1v v < ’ 



Sec, 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1883 


IT 


(2) in the Tabic sub-]oined to rule 176. under the heachng “Manufactured 
Products’’, after Item IV, the following .shall be inserted, namely— 

“V. The holders of private bonded warehouses, other than 

those in the licensed premises of a manufacturer, 

which house manufactured excisable goods Rs. 25 00,” 

[No. 2/61.1 
L, M. KAUL, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH & CULTURAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-2, the 3flth December 1960 

G.S.R. 17. — In pursuance of section 13 of the Indian Museum ^(Amendment)* 
Act, I960 (45 of 1960), the body corporate known as “the Trustees ~<3? the Indian 
Museum” is hereby re-constituted with effect from the 1st January, 1961, and the* 
Trustees of the Indian Museum (as re-constltuted) shall be: — 

Ex-Officio Chairman. 

1. The Governor of West Bengal; 

Ex-Officio Trustees. 

2. The Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Scientific* 

Research and Cultural Affairs; 

3. The Mayor of the Corporation of Calcutta; 

4. The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Calcutta; 

5. The Accountant General, West Bengal; 

Trustees nominated by the Central Government, under clause (f) of sub-section (l'/< 
of section 2 of the Indian Museum Act, 1910. (10 of 1910); 

0. Dr. Nihar Ranjan Ray, M.P., 68-4A, Purna Das Hoad, Calcutta; 

7. Shri Birendra Nath Mookerjee, 7, Harrington Street, Calcutta; 

8. Dr. S. K. Bhuyan, Vice-Chancellor, University of Gauhati, Gauhati; 

9. Director, Geological Survey of India, Calcutta; 

Trustee nominated by the Government of West Bengal, under clause ( g ) of sub- 
section (1) of section 2 of the said Act. 

10. Shri S. N, Ray, I.C.S: (Retd) Calcutta; 

Trustee nominated by the Council of the Asiatic Society, Calcutta under clause 1 
(h) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the said Act. 

11. Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, M.A., Ph.D., F.A.S. Calcutta; 

2. The nominated Trustees shall hold office for a period of three years from 
the 1st January, 1961. 

[No. F. 2-19/60. C-3.J 
T. S. KR’ISHNAMURTI, Dy. Secy- 

MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES & FUEL 
(Department of Mines and Fuel) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 30 th December 1900 

G.S.R. 18. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
24 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 19.37 167 of 
1957), the Central Government hereby makes the following amendm°uts in the 
Order of the Government of India in the Ministry ol Steel, Mines and Fuel, De- 
partment of Mines and Fuel. No. MII-1390 5)/58. dated the 4th December, 1959, 
namely: — 

In the Schcdu'i h> 1’r Order — 

('•> the entries relating to the Sim- of '".ndh’-a Tredmh Ai.Vl 1 * .•■-'.-.red 
as under: 

1. Dir'-ctor of Mines and Geology. 



12 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


[P\ri II 


2. Senior Assistant Director of Mines. 

3. Deputy Director of Mines and Geology. 

4. Assistant Director of Geology. 

5. Assistant Geologists 

6. Collector Kurnool. 

7. Collector Anantpur 

8. Collector Cuddapah, 

9. Collector Chlttoor 

10. Collector Nellore. 

11 . Collector Guntur. 

12. Collector East Godavari. 

13. Collector West Godavari 

14. Collector Krishna. 

.15. Collector Srikakularn. 

18. Collector Vlsakhapatnam. 

17. Collector Hyderabad. 

18. Collector Medak. 

19. Collector Karlmnagar. 

.20. Collector Mahbeehnagar 

21. Collector Khammam. 

22. Collector Warangal. 

23. Collector Adilabad. 

24 . Collector Nalgonda. 

25. Collector Nizamabad. 

28. All Joint Collectors In the districts where posts exist. 

27. Special Deputy Collectors for Mines, Srikakularn and Nellore. 

(b) the entries relating to the State of Bombay shall be omitted; 

(c) after the entries relating to the State of Madhya Pradesh, the follow- 

ing entries shall be inserted, namely: — 

“ 1 2 


Maharashtra 

(1) Director of Geology and Mining. 

(2) Collectors of the Districts. 

(3) Deputy Director of Geology and Mining. 

(4) Geologists, 

(5) Assistant Geologists. 

(6) Deputy Collectors. 

(71 Assistant Collectors. 

(8) Mamlatdars. 

(9) Tehsildars. 

(10) Sub-divisional officers. 


(a; after the entries relating to Delhi, the following entries shall be In- 
serted, namely:- — 

~ ” ” _ " 2 


Gujarat 


(1) Director of Geology and Mining. 

(2) Collectors of the Districts. 

13) Deputy Director of Geology and Mining. 

(4) Geologists. 

(5) Assistant Geologists, 

18) Deputy Collectors. 

(7) Assistant Collectors. 

(8) Mamlatdars. 

(9) Tehsildars. 

(10) Sub-divisional officers.”; 


Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


13 


(e) In the entries relating to the State of Punjab, In column 2, after entry 
6, the following entry shall be inserted namely: — 

“7. Assistant District Industries Officers." 


[No. MII-159(15)/58.J 
H. S. SAHN1, Under Secy, 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Selin, the 27 th December 1960 

G.8.R. 19. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section- 
56 of the Delhi Development Act, 1957 ffll of 1957), read with clauses in) and (r>- 
of sub-section (2) of that section, the Central Government hereby makes the fol- 
lowing rules, namely: — 

1. Short title and commencement. — (i) These Rules may be called the Delhi. 

Development Authority (Preparation of Budget) Rules, 1960. ***"■ ” 

(ii) These shall come into force at once. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires— 

(a) “Act’ means the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957), 

(b) “Authority" means the Delhi Development Authority constituted under 

section 8 of the Act; 

(c) “Form” means the form appended to these rules;- 

(d) “Government” means the Central Government; 

(e) “Vice-Chairman" means the Vice-Chairman of the Delhi Development 

Authority. 

(f) “year" means the financial - year beginning on the 1st of “April and end- 

ing on the 21st of March following. 

9. Form of budget estimates. — The budget in respect of the year next ensuing 
showing the estimated receipts and expenditure of the Authority Shall be prepared 
In Form A. I., and submitted to Government by the 15th October each year, Such 
estimates shall be accompanied by the revised budget estimates for the current 
year. The budget shall be based on the account head given in Appendix to these 
rules. 

4. In sufficient time before the date fixed for submission of the annual budget 
to the Government under rule" 3. the Accounts Section of the Authority shall fill 
up columns 2 to 7, on both the receipt and expenditure sides, of Part II of Form 
A.I. and send copies of relevent portions to the Sectlons _ concerned Including the 
Centra] Public Works Department, accompanied, where necessary, by a schedule 
of establishment in Form No. A. 2 columns 8 to 11 of Fart II of A-T shall then be 
filled up by the Sections concerned, separate notes giving full explanation of any 
variations shown In columns 10 and 11 being attached. 

Provided that — 

(a) provision proposed for new items of expenditure shall be dealt with in- 

accordance with rule 6; and 

(b) the Central Public Works Department and the Works and Development 

Section or other Section concerned of the Authority shall append to 
Form A.I. two schedules." one in Form A. 4 showing the works and 
schemes in progress and another in Form A. 5 showing the new 
works and schemes proposed to be taken in hand during the next 
year wherein minor works and schemes shall be shown in one lump 
sum supported by details as far as^ possible, the budget estimate of 
minor works and schemes Is ' based"" on “past experience; but details 
shall be given wherever they are available. 

5. Submission of sectional estimates for the orders of the Vice-Chairman.- — 

The Sections concerned shall return the Forms duly completed to the Accounts 
Section within such period as may be fixed by the vice-chairman, The Accounts 
Section shall submit them for the orders of the vice-chairman with, such comments 
as may be necessary. 



14 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 196I/PAUSA 17, 188? [Part II 


6. Proposals for new Items of expenditure. — -Proposals for new Items of ex- 
penditure. other than works and schemes, shall be submitted by the Sections con- 
cerned in Form A. 3. On receipt from the Sections they shall be submitted for 
■the orders of the vice-chairman in the same way as the estimates in Form A. I, 
IPart II. 

7. Consolidation of sectional estimates. — The Accounts Section shall, thereafter 
consolidate the sectional estimates into one budget estimate in Form A.I, all new 
'items being shown separately in red ink in Part II, Similarly, the sectional sche- 
dules in Forms A. 3, A. 4 and A, 5 shall be consolidated and attached to these 
•estimates together with the schedules in Form A. 2 and the notes giving brief 
explanation of the variation between, (1) the sanctioned arid the revised estimates 
of the current year and (ii) the revised estimates of the 'current year and the 
budget estimates of the next year. 


8. Submission of budget estimates to the Authority. — The budget estimates as 
•compiled In accordance with rule 7 shall be placed before the Authority by the 
5th of October each year for approval. On receipt of the orders of the Authority, 
The Accounts Section shall prepare a Anal edition of the budget incorporating 
therein such modifications as have been decided upon by the Authority. Four 
copies of the final edition, with copies of the schedules, shall be submitted to 
•Government by the 15th of October. 

9. Estimate of Income. — The estimate of income shall be based upon: — 

II) the actuals of' the past three years in respect of rer-yrring Income from 
land or other sources with such modifications as may be necessary In 
the light of probable increases or decreases due to factors which can 
be foreseen; and 

(2) the programme of sales of land as far as such a programme can be 
drawn up, 

10 Estimate of contingent expenditure. — (1) For contingent expenditure, the esti- 
mate shall be based upon the average actual expenditure of The past three years 
exclusive of any special items of expenditure That might have been incurred 
.during thos<- years Variations should, however, be made where Justified and 
should be adequately explained. 

(2) The three years average mentioned in rules 9 and 10 shall be treated 
•merely as a guide. 

11. Estimate of establishment expenditure and fixed recurring charges. — The 

estimate of expenditure on fixed establishment as well as fixed monthly recurring 
charges on account of rent, allowances, etc., shall be made according to the actual 
sanctioned scale and shall provide for the gross sanctioned pay without deductions 
of any kind. To this shall be added a suitable provision for leave salary' based 
•on past experience with due regard to the Intentions of the members of the staff 
in regard to leave as far as they 'can be ascertained. If experience Indicates that 
the total provision for fixed charges made on these lines is likely to prove exces- 
sive, a suitable lump deduction should be made from the total. 

12 Estimate of expenditure on works and schemes. — Expenditure on works and 
•schemes is bv far the most important item in the budget estimates of the Autho- 
rity. The amount of interest payable on loanj_^yilh depend largely on the standard 
of estimating this expenditure and extremTTare should therefore be exercised in 
framing the revised as well as the budget estimates of expenditure to be incurred 
on works and schemes, Any tendency towards optimism on the Dart of technical 
officers should, as far as possible, be neutralized by applying lumD cuts. It shall 
be the duty of the Accounts Section to suggest modifications on the basis of past 
•experience. 

13, Confining of provision In budget estimates to actual requirements.— All 

grants and appropriations lapse at the close of the year and unspent balances 
shall not he available for expenditure after the close of the year for the purpose 
for which the grant was sanctioned. In the case of works and schemes in pro- 
gress it will usually be possible, If necessary, to increase the grants of a year to 
cover the grants which have lapsed the end of the ^previous year, bv such 

means as arc open under these or their rules but special care should be taken to 
keep the budget estimates within the limits of actual . requirements in order to 



Sec. 3(i)] 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1901/PAUSA 17, 1882 


15 


save unnecessary indirect charges. Any tendency, however, towards the end of a 
year to utilize the grants shall be open to grave objection. 

14. Amended original estimates. — If during the course of a year it is found 
necessary to modify the budget estimates materially, a modified budget shall be 
prepared” by the Authority, and submitted to Government. Any such budget shall 
be treated as an original sanctiored estimate. If no modified budget is submitted, 
any necessary changes in the original estimates shall be made by re-appropria- 
tions, fresh allotments, etc., as usual. 

15. New or additional expenditure which cannot be met by re-appropriation. — 

If the necess'ty for some new or additional expenditure is fully established during 
the course of the year and the funds cannot be provided by re-appropriation, )L 
will be open to the Authority to make fresh allotments or to increase the existing 
allotments, provided funds can be made available from opening balances, addi- 
tional allotments by Government or from Increases, anticipated or realised, in in- 
come for which a supplementary estimate should be submitted. Such proposals 
shall be accompanied by a statement in Form A. 6. In respect of new schemes 
involving fresh borrowings from Government, the expenditure should not he 
incurred unless the scheme has been accepted broadly in principle by Government 
and provision of token amount made in the original budget. 

16. Re-appropriations and emergent expenditure. — No expenditure which is not 

covered by provision in the sanctioned budget estimate, or which is likely to cause 
excess over the amount provided under any head, shall be Incurred without provi- 
sion being made by re-appropriation from some other head under which savings 
are ascertained or anticipated. Inevitable expenditure which cannot be met by 
re-appropriation or which can be met only by additional allotment, may be in- 
curred with the previous approval of the Authority and in emergencies under the 
orders of the vice-chairman, a report of which shalFbe made to the Authority at 
Its next meeting. The application for re-approprlation or additional allotment of 
funds should, however, be made to the Authority as soon as possible explaining 
the circumstances in which the expenditure had to be incurred in anticipation of 
Its sanction. 

17. Powers of the Authority to sanction re-appropriations. — The Authority may 
sanction rc-appropriations of funds from one major head of account to another or 
within any major head; 

Provided that without the prior approval of Government, no re-appropriation 
shall be made from Nazul to non-Nazul or vice versa and from Slum or Rehousing 
Accounts to General Development Account and vice versa. 

18. Form of statement of re-appropriation. — Proposals for re-appropriatlon 
shall be accompanied by a statement in Form A, 7, The explanation of proposed 
increases and decreases should be amplified, if necessary, while seeking sanction. 

19. Effect of re-appropriation sanctioned by Government. — When a re-appro- 
priation is sanctioned by the Government, the amount so transferred shall be 
treated as a loan which shall carry interest from the date of sanction 'to the re- 
appropriation or the date of expenditure, whichever is earlier (lihless some other 
date is specifically prescribed in the sanction) at the same rate as is charged on 
Government loans to the Authority and which shall be liquidated from the next 
year’s receipts of the debtor account from loan or otherwise. 

20. Inevitable payments. — The want of provision in the budget estimates or 
the temporary exhaustion of the budget allotment under any head shall not operate 
to prevent payment or refund of any amount due by the Authority or to prevent 
record of any payment under Its proper head of account. All liabilities incurred 
shall be liquidated without delay and In no cireumstmces shall he liability be 
allowed to stand over and above and be paid from the" budget grant of the follow- 
ing year, nor shall payments of refunds be postponed to the last days of a month 
or the last month of a financial year. 

[No. F. 6-12/60-LSG.) 

A. K. DAR, Under Secy. 

MINISTRY OF WORKS. HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 28th. December 1960 

G.S.R. 20. — The following draft of certain rules further to amend the Ex- 
plosives Rules, 1940 which the Central Government proposes to make In exercise 



7, 196] /PA USA 17, 1882 


[Part H 


of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian Explosives Act, 1884 (4 of 1884), 
Is published as required by section 18 of the said Act, for the Information of all 
persons likely to be affected thereby and notice Is hereby given that the said 
draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 31st January, 1961. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

1.. These rules may be called the Explosives (Amendment) Rules, 1960. 

2. In the Explosives Rules, 1940, In Schedule V; in licence form 'N' against 
the entry "In the State of Madras”, for the figures and word "25 lbs” 
the figures and word "10 lbs” shall be substituted*. 

(No. S&PIT3(40)/6O. J 
]\1. N. KALE, Under Secy. 


ministry of transport and communications 

(Departments of Communications and Civil Aviation) 

(P, & T. Board) 

New Delhi, the nth December 1960 

GSR 21.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating 
the recruitment through competitive examination to the cadre of Assistant 
Engineer (Workshops), Class II, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Assistant Engineer (Workshops), Class n, 
(Examination) Rules, 1961. 


2. For the purpose of these Rules — 

(a) “Government” means the Government of India. 

(b) "The Commission” means the Unjon Public Service Commission. 

(c) "The Service" means the cadre of Assistant Engineer (Workshops), 

class II, particulars in respect of which are given m Appendix IV. 

3. A competitive examination for admission to the 

s.s.r as — - 

vacancies to be filled on the result of the examination. 

4 If the examination held under this part of these Ruies is ^combined 
examination for the purpose of making appointments to mo 
the following provisions shall apply: — 

<■> rsttSMZ nrs 

SSTo [S“.« W S A SE3SS uift-m *? sumcient 
(W °SgSm£tT h £|™“**“' sa '" d “' Ss “ s 

personal preference expressed by the candidate, 
da -e, m Tucf man^fanK suchVrm Se "" 

6. A candidate must be either— 

(a) a citizen of India, or 

?! 3 EUb ^‘ origin who has migrated from Pakistan with the 

(C R intention of permanently settling in Indnu or possession 

(d ) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or former Frencfi 

in India. 


Sec. J(i)] ' THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


17 


Note. — The appointment of candidates in categories (c) and (d) above will 
be subject to the issue of certificates of eligibility in their favour by the Gov- 
ernment of India. The certificate of eligibility in respect of candidates belong- 
ing to category (c) will be valid only for a period of one year from the date of 
his appointment beyond which he would be retained in service only if he has 
become a citizen of India. Certificates of eligibility will not, however, be neces- 
sary in the case of candidates belonging to any one of the following categories: — 

(1) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July, 

1948, and have ordinarily been residing in India since then. 

(2) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th July, 

1948 and have got themselves registered as citizens under Article 6 
of the Constitution. 

(3) Non-citizens of categories (c) and (d) above who entered service 

under the Government of India before the commencement of the 
constitution, viz., 2Gt"h January, 1950 and who have continued In 
such service since then. Any such person who re-entered or may 
re-enter such service with break after the 26th January, 1950, will, 
however, require certificate of eligibility in the usual way. 

Note 2. — A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary may 
be admitted to the examination and he may also bo provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by 
Government. 


7. (a) No male candidate who has more than one wife living shall be eligi- 
ble for appointment to any of the Services appointments to which are made on 
the results of this competitive examination unless the Government of India after 
being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempt any male 
candidate from the operation of this rule. 

(b) No female candidate who has married a person having already a wife 
living shall be eligible for appointment to any of the services appointments to 
which are made on the results of this competitive examination unless the Gov- 
ernment of India after being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing 
bo, exempt any female candidate from the operation of this rule. 

8. On the date prescribed by the Commission in their Notice of ’the examina- 
tion issued under Rule 3 a candidate must have attained the age of 20 and must 
not have attained the age of 25, provided that the upper age limit of 25 will be 
relaxable upto 30 in the case of candidates who hold substantively permanent 
posts in the Posts and Telegraphs Department, or have continuously held for a 
period of not less than two years temporary posts of (1) Foremen, or (2) Assist- 
ant Foremen, or (3) Assistant Engineers (Workshops) in the Posts and Telegraphs 
Workshops, such relaxation being limited to three examinations only. 

Departmental candidates must obtain previous permission of the Head of the 
Department to appear for the examination. 

Note, — The upper age limits prescribed above will be relaxable: — 

(i) Upto a maximum of five years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 
Caste or a Scheduled Tribe. 

(ii) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a bona fide displaced 
person from Pakistan; 

This concession will not, however, be admissible to a candidate who has 
already appeared at five previous examinations or in the case of 
those employed in the Posts and Telegraphs Department at eight 
previous examinations. 

(hi) Upto a maximum of eight years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 
Caste or a Scheduled Tribe and is also a bona fide displaced per- 
son from Pakis'an. 

This concession will not, however, be admissible to a candidate who has 
already appeared at ten previous examinations or in the case of 
those employed in the Posts and Telegraphs Department at thirteen 
previous examinations, 

(iv) Upto a maximum of three years if a Candida' e is a resident of the 
former French Settlements which have . now become part of India 
and has been receiving his education through the medium of French. 



i8 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


[Part II 


(v) Upto a maximum of 4 years if a candidate belongs to the Andaman 
and Nicobar Islands. 

N. B.— Candidates who are admitted to the examination under the age con- 
cession mentioned in this rule will not be eligible for appointment if, after sub- 
mitting the application, they resign from Service either before or after taking 
the examination. They will, however, continue to be eligible if they are 
retrenched from the service or post after submitting the applications. 

SAVE AS PROVIDED ABOVE THE AGE LIMITS PRESCRIBED CAN IN NO 

CASE BE RELAXED. 

9. A candidate must have — 

(a) obtained a degree in Engineering from a university incorporated by 

an Act of the Central or of a State Legislature in India; or 

(b) passed Sections A and B of the Associate Membership Examination 

of the Institution of Engineers (India) or have any other educa- 
tional qualifications recognised by that institution, as exempting 
from passing these sections, or 

(c) obtained an engineering degree of one of the universities mentioned 

in Appendix I under the conditions prescribed in that Appendix; or 

(d) passed the Honours Diploma Examination in Civil, Mechanical or 

Electrical Engineering of the Loughborough College, Leicestershire 
provided the candidate has passed the common preliminary examina- 
tion or has been exempted therefrom; or 

(e) obtained the B.E. (Tele-Communication) degree awarded by Indian 

Universities; or 

(f) passed the Graduate Membership Examination of the Institution of 

Tele-communication Engineers (India). 

Note 1. — In exceptional cases the Commission may treat as a qualified candi- 
date, a candidate, who, though he has not all or any of the qualifications pres- 
cribed in this rule, has passed examinations conducted by other institutions of a 
standard which in the opinion of the Commission justifies his admission to the 
examination. 

Note 2. — Candidates who have appeared at an examination the passing of 
which would render them eligible to appear at this examination, but have not 
been informed of the result may apply for admission to the examination. Candi- 
dates who intend to appear at such a qualifying examination may also apply, 
provided that the qualifying examination is completed before the commencement 
of this examination. Their applications will be accepted provisionally and they 
will be required to furnish proof of having passed the examination as soon as 
possible and in any case not later than two months after the commencement of 
the examination. 

10. No candidate shall be admitted to the examination unless he holds a certifi- 
cate of admission from the Commission. 

The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candidate 
for admission to the examination shall be final. 

11. A candidate found guilty of impersonation or of submitting fabricated docu- 
ments or documents, which have been tampered with or of making statements 
which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information or of using or 
attempting to use unfair means in the examination hall or otherwise resorting 
to any other irregular or improper means for obtaining admission to the examina- 
tion may, in addition to redering himself liable to a criminal prosecution be 
debarred either permanently or for a specified period^- 

(a) by the Commission from admission to any examination or appearance 

at any interview held by the Commission for selection of candidates; 
and 

(b) by the Central Government from employment under the Government. 

12. No recommendations except those required in the application form shall be 
taken into consideration. Any attempt on the part of . a candidate to obtain sup- 
port for his candidature by other means may disqualify him for admission. 



■Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1%1/PAUSA 17, 1882 


19 


13. Candidates must pay such examination fees as Government may prescribe 
(See Appendix III). No claim for a refund of any of those fees will be entertain- 
ed nor can they be held in reserve for any other examination or selection. 

14. Examinations under these Rules shall be conducted by the Commission in 
the manner prescribed in the regulations which form Appendix II to these Rules. 

15. (a) After every examination the Commission shall make a list of the candi- 
dates in order of their merit as disclosed by the aggregate marks finally awarded 
to each candidate and in that order so many candidates up to the number of 
vacancies announced under rule 3 above, as are found by the Commission in their 
discretion to be qualified by the examination and are considered by Government 
or the appointing authority, as the case may be, to be suitable in all other respects, 
shall be appointed. 

(b) Appointments to vacancies to be filled by members of a particular com- 
munity or communities shall be made by Government or the appointing authority 
as the case may be, in the order of merit of the candidates belonging to the parti, 
cular community or communities provided they have qualified in the examination 
and are in all respects suitable for employment in the Service. 

(c) Success in the examination confers no right to appointment, unless Govern- 
ment arc satisfied, after such enquiry as may be considered necessary that the 
candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the public Service. 

Note, — The form and manner of communication of the result of the examina- 
tion to individual candidates shall be decided by the Commission in their discretion. 

16. A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health, and free from any 
physical defect likely to interfere with the discharge of his or her duties as an 
officer of the Service. A candidate who (after such physical examination as 
Government or the appointing authority, as the case may be; may prescribe) is 
found not to satisfy those requirements will not be appointed. Only candidates 
who arc likely to be considered for appointment will be physically examined. 

In order to prevent disappointment candidates are advised to have themselves 
■examined by a Government Medical Officer of the standing of a Civil Surgeon 
before applying for admission to the examination. Particulars of the nature of 
the physical test to which candidates will be subjected before appointment and of 
the standards required can be had from the Commission 

17. (a) Appointments shall be made on probation for a period of two years. 

(b) If, in the opinion of Government, the work or conduct of an officer on 
probation Is unsatisfactory, or shows that he is unlikely to become efficient. Gov- 
ernment may discharge him forthwith, 

(c) On the conclusion of his period of probation and on passing the prescribed 
test at the end of practical training prescribed by the competent authority, Govern- 
ment may confirm the officer in his appointment or if his work or conduct has In 
the opinion of Government been unsatisfactory, Government may either discharge 
him from the Service or may extend his period of probation for such further 
period as Government may think fit. The candidate will not ordinarily be permit- 
ted to cross the stage of pay of Rs. 475 or be considered for further promotion 
unless he passes the professional examination prescribed by the Department. 

(d) If no action is taken by Government under sub-rule (b) or (c) of this rule, 
the period after the prescribed period of probation shall be treated as an engage- 
ment from month to month, terminable on either side, on the expiration of one 
calendar month's notice In writing. 

(e) If the power to make appointments in the Service is delegated by Govern- 
ment to any officer or authority, that officer or authority may exercise any of the 
powers of Government under this rule. 

18. Probationers will also be required to pass a test in Hindi before confirmation. 

Appendix 1 

l.iat of University degrees which will be rerogws^d for admission to the examina- 
tion [vide Rules 9(e)], 

Aberdeen.— B.Sc. Engineering (Honours or Ordinary degrees). 



30 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, I9G1/PAUSA 17, 1882 


[Part II 


Cambridge , — Ordinary B.A. degree in engineering provided the graduate has 
passed in the principal subjects, Engineering I, Engineering II and Engineering III. 

Durham. — B.Sc. in Marine Engineering. 

Glasgow. — B.Sc. In Naval Architecture (Honours or Ordinary degree). 

Note.- — The above degrees will be accepted only if taken after three years' 
study and the passing of the regular examinations in the several Universities. The 
conditions as to three years’ study will not, however, apply to Indians who; having 
taken ‘ an Indian degree, which exempts them from part of the University course 
shall have taken one of the above degrees in less than three years in accordance 
with the regulations of the University concerned. 

AppENDrx II 

Standard and syllabus of the Examination (vide Rule 41) 


Subjects Maximum Marks 


(a) Compulsory— 

1. English (including Essay & precis writing) 100 

2. General knowledge 100 

3. Applied Mechanics (including Strength of Materials) 200 

4. Theory of Machines and Machine design 200 

5. Prime Movers 200 

6. Personality Test 300 


Total 1,100 


(b) Optional — (any two of the following subjects) 

1. Hydraulics and Hydraulic Machines 10O 

2. Electrical Engineering inn 

3. Metallurgy 100 

4. Workshop Technology 100 

5. Physics (including Electricity & Magnetism) I0(J 

6. Workshop Organisation & Management 100 


Note 1. — All papers must be answered in English. 

Note 2, Candidates must write the papers in their own hand. In no circum- 
stances will they be allowed the help of a scribe to write answers for them. 

2. The standard and syllabus of the examination will be such as the Commis- 
sion shall prescribe, 

3. The Commission have discretion to fix qualifying marks in any or all the- 
subjects at the examination, 

4. The Commission will sumrrion at their discretion only those candidates whom- 
they consider suitable for Interview for the Personality Test. 

5. Special attention will be paid In the Personality Test to assessing the 
cftndlaateo' ca P ae ^F for leadership, initiative and intellectual curiosity, tact and 
other social qualities, m*" tal and Physical energy, powers of practical application; 
and Integrity of character. 

6. From the marks assigned to candidates in each subject such deduction will 
be made as the Commission may consider necessary in order to secure that no 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge. 

7. Deductions up to 5 per cent of the maximum marks for the written subjects 
will be made for Illegible handwriting. 

8. Credit will be given for good English— orderly, effective and exact expression 
and due economy of words — in all subjects of the examination. 



Skc. 3(i)1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, I96I/PATJSA 17, 1882 


21 


Appendix III 
FEES 

(vide "Rule 13) 

Candidates seeking admission to the examination must pay the following fees— 

(a) To the Commission ; 

(1) Re, 1 when asking for application form and connected documents. 

This amount should he paid to the Commission by Money Order, Local 
candidates, however, may pay cash at the counter, The Commission 
will not accept payment made otherwise. 

(ii) Rs. 31:50 (Rs. 19:02 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes) with the completed application form. 

This amount should be paid by means of Treasury Receipt or CROSSED 
Indian Postal Orders payable to Secretary, Union Public Service 
Commission. The Commission will not accept payment made 
otherwise. 

(b) To the Medical Board: 

Rs. 16 before examination by a Medical Board, if selected for appointment. 

This amount should be paid in cash to the Medical Board concerned at the 
time of the Medical examination. 

2. Once an application has been considered by the Commission and the decision 
communicated to the candidate no claim from the candidate for a refund of the 
fee paid by him to the Commission will be entertained nor can this fee be held 
in reserve for any other examination or selection. If however, a candidate is 
not admitted to the examination by the Commission, a refund of Rs. 75 (Rs. iS'75 
in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) 
will be made to him, 

3. The Commission may at their discretion remit the prescribed fee where 
they are satisfied that the applicant is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan 
and is not in a position to pay the prescribed fee. The fee of Re. 1 however, 
must be paid even by a displaced person when asking the Commission for form 
and this amount will be refundable to him, if on receipt of his application, his 
claim to be a displaced person is accepted by the Commission and his fee is 
remitted. 

Appendix IV 

General conditions of service prescribed for candidates recruited to the cadre of 
Assistant Engineer (Workshops), Class II, 

1. Fifty per cenl of the vacancies in the Service will be filled by candidates 
recruited through Competitive Examination. 

2. Candidates to be recruited through Competitive Examination will be 
appointed as probationers for a period of two years during w T hich they will under- 
go practical training in accordance with the programme of training that may be 
prescribed from time to time. Those who are favourably reported upon at the 
end of two years and have passed any departmental examination or examinations, 
that may be prescribed, will be appointed to working posts in the Service. 

3. Officers recruited under these rules shall be eligible for leave, increment 
and pension in accordance with the rules for the time being in force applicable 
to officers of the Central Government. They will also be eligible to join the 
General Provident Fund in accordance with the rules regulating that Fund. 

4. These officers shall be liable for transfer anywhere in India, 

5. The inter se seniority of officers appointed through Competitive examina- 
tion will ordinarily be determined by their order of merit, in the competitive 
examination. Government of India, however, reserve the right of fixing the 
seniority at their discretion in individual cases. 

6. The following are the rates of pay admissible, to officers appointed in India 
do the cadre of Assistant Engineer (Workshops) Class II:— 

Rs, 350—25 — 500—30- — 590 — E.B. — 30 — 800 — E.B. — 30 — 830 — 35 — 900. 



22 


THE GAZETTE OI' INDIA: JANUARY 7, 19G1/PAUSA 17, 188: 


[Part II 


7. Officers of the Service arc eligible for promotion to posts in the General 
Central Service Class I (Workshops) under the rules. 

8. These conditions of service are subject to revision according to the require- 
ments of service. Candidates will not be entitled to any compensation if they 
are adversely affected by any changes in the conditions of service which may be 
introduced later on. 

[No. 2-12/60. W.K.f 

N. CHIDAMBARAM, 
Director Postal TechnicaL 


(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 30th December, I960 

G.S.R, 22. — In th“ Port of Cochin (Petroleum) Rules 1900 published with 
the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Transport and 
Communications (Department of Transport— Transport Wing) No. G.S.R. 1241 
dated the 13th October, 1960, the following correcMons shall be made, namely: — 

(1) The words “the strength of the tide” appearing in line 3, rule 4 of 

Section I, shall be substituted by the words “strength of ebb tide”. 

(2) The words “book to the ships tanks” appearing in line 3, rule 13 of 

Section II, shall be substituted by the words “back to the ship’s 
tank”, 

(3) The word “continued” appearing In line 3, rule 17 of Section II, shall 

be substituted by the word “discontinued”. 

(4) The word “exempt” appearing in line 2, rule 20 of Section II, shall be 

substituted by the word “except". 

(5) The word “Loading” appearing in the marginal heading of rule 24 of 

Section III shall be substituted by the word “Landing”, 

(6) The word “fresh” appearing In line 4 of rule 34(8) of Section III shall 

be substituted by the word “from”. 

(7) The word “aangcrous" appearing in the heading under Annexure II 

shall be substituted by the word “dangerous”. 

[No. 6B-PG(30)/58.J 
M. V. NILAKANTA AYYAR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 28 th December 1900 

G.S.R. 23. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309 of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules to 
further amend the National Archives of India (Class III posts) Recruitment 
Rules, 1959, published with the notification of the Government of India in the* 
Ministry of Education No. G. S. R. 1148, dated the 17th October, 1959, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the National Archives of India (Class III posts) 
Recruitment Amendment Rules, 1960. 

2. In the Schedule to the National Archives of India (Class III posts) Recruit- 
ment Rules, 1959, 

against serial No. 7, 

(i) the existing entries under column 6 shall be omitted. 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/1’AUSA 17, 1882 


23 


(ii) for the existing entry under column 7, the following entry shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“Selection 25 per cent on the basis of a competitive examination limited to 
Lower Division Clerks’’, 

(iii) under column 8, the en*ry “76 per cent” shall be inserted, 

(iv) the existing entries under column 11 shall be omitted, 

(v) the existing entries under column 13 shall be omitted, 

(vi) immediately after the existing entries under column 14, the words “for 

posts to be filled by seniority -cum - fitness only ; for posts to be filled 
by limited competition, Lower Division Clerks (including Hindi 
Typists) in accordance with specific rules as may be prescribed for 
the purpose” shall be inserted. 

[No. F. 4/13/60-A. 10.] 
D. N. TIWARI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 31st December 1960 

G-S.R- 24. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
recruitment of persons to General Central Service Class II posts in the Education 
Department of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands Administration, 
namely: — - 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi 
Islands Education Department (Class II posts) Recruitment Rules, 196(1. 

'2. Application.' — These rules shall apply for recruitment to the post specified in 
column 1 of the Schedule to these rules. 

3. Number, Classification and scale of pay. — The number of posts, classification 
of the said posts and the scales of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in 
columns 2 to 4 of the said Schedule. 

4. Method of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications. — The method of 
recruitment, age limit, qualifications and other matters connected therewith shall 
be as specified in columns 5 to 13 of the Schedule aforesaid: 

Provided that the maximum age limit specified in the Schedule in respect 
of direct recruitment may be relaxed in the case of candidates belong- 
ing to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other special cate- 
gories in accordance with the orders issued by the Central Government 
from time to time. 

6. Disqualification. — No male candidate who has more than one wife living and 
no female candidate, who has married a person having already a wife living, shall 
be eligible for appointment, unless the Central Government, after having been 
satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempts any such candidate 
from the operation of this rule. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, I961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


[Part II 


Recruitment Rules for the post of Education Officer L. M. and A. Islands 


Name of No, of Classification Scale of Pay Whether Age limit Educational and other 
post posts selection for direct qualifications re- 

post or recruits quired for direct re- 
non- emits 

selection 

post 


I 

2 3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

Education 

Officer 

L.M.&A. 

Islands. 

One G.C.S. 

Class II 
Gazetted 
(Non- 
Ministerial). 

Rs. 300 — 25— 
500. 

Selection 

Below 40 
years 

(Relaxable 
for Govt. 
Servants) 

Essential : 

(i) Master’s or equi- 
valent Honours 

degree of a recog- 
nised University. 


(ii) Degree or Dip- 
loma In Education 
of a recognised 
University/ Insti- 
tution. 

( [Hi ) About 5 years 

experience of teach- 
ing in a recognised 
educational Insti- 
tution of which 
about 3 years should 
be in an adminis- 
trative capacity. 

(iv) Knowledge of 
Malayalam, Quali- 
fications relaxable 
at Commission’s 
discretion in the 
case of candidates 
otherwise well 
qualified. 

Desirable : 

(i) About 3 years ex- 
perience as an 
Inspecting Officer 
in Education Deptt. 
of a Central or State 
Govt. 

(ii) Experience of 
Social Work. 

(mi) Knowledge of 
Hindi. 



Sic. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAIJSA 17, 1882 


25 


n the Ministry of 7? lucziion 


Whether Period 
age and of 
educational proba- 
qualifica- tion if 
tions any 

prescribed 
for the 
direct 
recruits 
will apply 
in the 
case of 
promotees 


Method of recruit- In case of reett. by pro- If a DPC Circumstances 
merit whether by di- motion./tranBferj grades exists, what in which U.P. 
reel recruitmert or from which promotion is its com- S. C. is to be 
transfer and percent- to be made position, consulted in 

age of the vacancies making rc- 

to be filled by various croitmcnt 

methods 


8 


9 


IO 


n 


12 13 


No Two By promotion failing Promotion : Class II As required 

years. which by transfer/ Head Master G.H.S. D.P.C. under the 
deputation & failing (L.M.A.) I (Rs. 300 — rules, 

both by direct re- 400 J Class III (N.G.) 
cruitment. 

Transfer I deputation '■ 

Officer of the Education 
Deptt. holding ana- 
logous posts under 
the Central or State 
Governments. 


[No. F. 34-34/ 59-SE.2.1 

R. K. KAPUR. 
Deputy Educational Adviser 



26 


THE GAZETTE Or INDIA: JANUARY 7, I9G1/PAUSA 17, 1881! 


[Part II 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agrlculfufe)' 

New Delhi , the 28 th December 1960 

G.S.R. 25. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 300 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
method of recruitment to certain Class I and II posts in the Directorate of Economics 
& Statistics in the Department of Agriculture of the Ministry of Food & Agricul- 
ture, namely: — 

1. Short title, — These rules may be called the Directorate of Economics and 

Statistics (certain Class I and II posts) Recruitment Rules, 1960. 4 

2. Application. — These rules shall apply for recruitment to the posts specified In 
column 1 of the Schedule to these rules, 

3. Number, Classification and scale of pay. — The number of posts, their classifi- 
cation and the scale of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in columns 2 to 4 
of the said Schedule. 

4. Method of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications. — The method of 
recruitment, age limit, qualifications and other matters connected therewith shall be 
as specified in Columns 5 to 13 of the Schedule aforesaid. 


SCHEDULE 

Remdsment Rules for the various Class I and Class 11 posts in the Directorate of Economics and Statistics 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture 


Name of post 


Classi- 

fication 


Scale Whether 
of selection 
pay post or 
** non- 
selec- 
tion 
post 


Age 

limit 

for 

direct 

recruits 


Education & other 
qualifications required 
for direct recruits 


Whether 
age and 
Educa- 


Method of 
rectt. whether 

by direct In case of 

If a 

Circums • 

tional 


rectt. or 

recruitment by 

DPC 

tances 

qualifi- 

Period 

by promotion 

promotion/ 

exists 

in which 

cations 

or transfer 

transfer, 

what is 

U.P.S.C. 

prescribed 

of 

& percentage 

grades from 

its 

is to be 

for the 

proba- 

of the 

which 

composi- 

consulted 

direct 

tion 

vacancies to 

promotion 

tion 

in making 
recruitment 

recruits 

if 

be filled by 

to be made 


will 

apply in 
the case 

any 

various me- 
thods 





of pro - 
motees 


I. Deputy 
Director 
(Mechani- 
cal Tabula- 
tion). 


General 700 — 40 Not 
Central — 1100 appli- 
es ervice, —50/2— cable. 
Class I. 1250. 


Below 45 Essential : 


years 

(Relaxable 

for 

Govern- 

ment 

servants). 


(0 Master’s degree 
in Statistics/Mathe- 
matics or in Eco- 
nomics (with Sta- 
tistcs) of a recog- 
nised University, 
(ii) About 5 years’ 
pracctical exprience 
of statistical work 
in a responsible 
capacity in plan- 
ning and executing 
work on mechanical 
tabulation. 


Not appli- Two Direct recruit- Not appli- 
cable. years ment. cable. 


Not appli- As requir- 
cable. ed under 
the rules. 


GAZETTE OF INDLA : JANUARY 7, 19G1/PAUSA 17, 1882 




2. Editor 


Rs. 

(Hi) Knowledge of 
PUNCHED CARD 
MACHINES AND 
their components. 

Qualifictions relaxable 
at Commission’s 
discretion in the 
case of candidates 
otherwise well qua- 
lified. 

Desirable — 

(i) Advanced training 
in punch card me- 
chanical tabulation 
technique and 
methodology of 
. Hollerith and/or 
Powers-Samas equip- 
ment. 

(it) Practical expe- 
rience of mechanical 
tabulation of large 
scale economic sur- 
veys. 

(iii) Knowledge of 
modem efficiency 
techniques, e.g., 
time and motion 
studies, quality 
control and me- 
thods of visual dis- 
play. 

G.C.S. 700 — 40 Selec- Below 45 Essential : — 

Class I — 1100 — tion. years (t) Master’s degree No. 
50/2 — (relaxable in Economics/or 

1250. for Agricultural Econo- 

Govt. mics of a recognis- 



Two By promotion or promotion : — Class I f As requir 
years direct recruit- Assistant D.P.C. edunder- 
ment, the mode Editors — the rules, 

of recruitment with five 


OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Part II 



. Assistant x ■G.C.S. 350— 25 Not Below 35 
Editor. Class II — 500 — Appli- years 

Non- 30 — 590 cable, (relaxable 
Minis- — .EB — for Go- 

lerial, 30 — 800. vemment 

servants). 


servants). ed University, or 
an equivalent quali- 
fication. 

(it) About 5 years’ 
experience of edi- 
torial and/or pub- 
licity work. 

(tti) Knowledge of 
agricultural econo- 
mica. 

Qualifications relax- 
able at Commis- 
sion’s discretion 
in the case of can- 
didates otherwise 
well qualified. 

Desirable — 

Experience of pro- 
dncrion/prigting 
aspects of publi- 
cation work 

Below 35 Essential : — 


to be decided years’ 
on each oc- service in 
casion in con- the grade . 
sultation with 
the Commis- 
sion. 


CO Master’s degree Not Two Direct recruit- Not appli- Not appli- Asrequi- 

in Economics /or Applicable, years ment. cable. cable. red 

Agricultural Eco- under 

nomics of a ftco- the rule s 

gnised University 
or an equivalent 
qualification. 

(n) About 2 years’ 
experience of edi- 
torial and/or 

publicity work, 
and/or experience 
of writing on eco- 
nomic problems. 

Qualifications relax- 
able at Commis- 
sion’s discretion in 
the case of candi- 
dates otherwise 
well qualified. 


Sec, 3 (i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7 , 1961 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 



I 



4 ** 5 


6 


7 


89 10 11 12 13 


Desirable : — 

(i) Knowledge of Ag- 
ricultural Economics. 

(«) Experience of pro- 
ductkin/prinling 
aspects of publica- 
tion work. 


Note : — **The scales of pay indicated in column 4 of this Schedule are those indicated in Section 11, Sub-Section 4 of the Schedule to th e 
Ministry of Finance Notification No. S.O. 2641 dated the 26th October, i960 containing the revised scales of pay for these posts. 


fNo. F. 9-107/58-CXE)] 

»** 

N. RANGANATHAN, Under Secy. 


LO 

o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 196! /PAUSA 17, 188? 



Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/P AUSA 17, 1882 


31 


(Department ol Food) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 30th December i960 

G.S-R 26 -~ In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential Commodities 
Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes tne following Order, namely: — 

1, This Order may be called the Foodgrains Movements (Conversion to Metric Weights) 
Order, 1961. 

2. The Orders specified in the first column of the annexed Table are hereby amended to the 
•extent and In the manner specified in the second column thereof. 

Table 


Order 

Nature of amendments 

(I) 

(2) 


1. Calcutta Wheat (Movement Control) Order, 
19563 S.R.O. 2033 ; 5-9-1956. 

2. Bombay Wheat (Movement Control) Order, 
19563 S.R.O. 20983 17-9-1956. 

3. Bombay Rice (Export Control) Order, 1957; 

S.R.O. 1852; 3-6-1957. 

4. Inter-Zonal Wheat Movement Control Order, 
19573 S.R.O. 19863 13-6-1957. 

5. Rice (Southern Zone) Movement Control Or- 
der, 19573 S.R.O. 2258-A3 9-7-1957. 


}- In the proviso to clause 3, for “five seers”, 
I substitute “five kilograms”. 


In the first proviso to clause 3, for “five seers” 
substitute "five kilograms”. 

(i) In clause 3,— 

(a) in the first proviso, for “five seers”, 

substitute “five kilograms” 3 

( b ) in the second proviso, for “ten 
maunds”, substitute “four quintals”, 

(ii) In the proviso to clause 3A, for “20 sccth ” 
and “5 seers”, substitute “twenty kilo- 
grams” and “five kilograms” respec- 
tively. 


'6. Bihar Foodgrains (Movement Control) Order, 
19573 S.R.O. 40763 20-12-1957, 


In the proviso to clause 3 ns well as in the 
proviso to clause 3A, tor “five seers”, subs- 
titute “five kilograms”. 


7. Madhya Pradesh Rice (Movement Control) "1 

Order, 19573 S.R.O. 40773 20-12-1957. j 

8. Wheat (South Zone Export Control) Order, | 

19583 G.S.R. 7033 16-8-1958. f 

9. Uttar Pradesh Foodgrains (Movement Con- 
trol) Order, 1958 3 G.S.R. 7583 29-8-1958. J 

'10. Rice (Northern Zonclj Movement Control 
Order, 19583 G.S.R. 818-A3 13-9-1958. j 


rr. West Bengal Wheat (Export Control) Order, 
19583 G.S.R. 10503 1-11-1958. 

.12. Uttar Pradesh Paddy and Rice (Restriction on 
Movement) Order, 19583 G.S.R. 12333 24-12- 
1958. 


In the proviso to clause 3, lor “five seers”, 
substitute “five kilograms”. 


(i) In the proviso to clause 3, for “five seers”, 

substitute “five kilograms'^ 

(ii) In the proviso to clause 3A, for “20 seers” 

and “5 seers”, substitute “twenty kilo- 
grams’’ and “five kilograms” respec 
lively. 

In the proviso to clause 3, for “five seers” , 
substitute "five kilograms”. 

In clause 3B, for “five seers”, substitute “five 
kilograms”. 



32 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 196 1 /PA USA 17, 1882 


[Part II 


(I) 


( 2 ) 


13. Punjab Paddy (Export Control) Order, 1959 ; 
G.S.R. 23; 3-1-1959. 

14. Uttar Pradesh Foodgrains (Restrictions on 
Border Movement) Order, 1959; G.S.R. 292; 

1 0-3-1959. 

ij. Rajasthan Foodgrains (Restrictions on Border 
Movement) Order, 1959; G.S.R. 432; 9-4-59- 

16. Madhya Pradesh Foodgrains (Restrictions on 
Border Movement) Order, 1959; G.S.R. 450; 
14-4-1959. 

17. Delhi (Restriction on Import of Wheat Atta)' 
Order, 1959; G.S.R. 693; 15-6-1959. 

. ► 

18. Tripura Foodgrains Movement Control 
(No. 2) Order, 1959; G.S.R- 805; II- 7 -I 959 -. 

Rice (Eastern Zone) Movement Control Or- 
der, 1959; G.S.R. 1401 ; 21-12-1959. ft 


20. Calcutta Rice (Movement Control) Order, 
19591 G.S.R. 1402; 21-12-1959. 

21. Rajasthan (Rice Import Restriction) Order, 

i960; G.S.R, 696; 17-6-1960. 


In the proviso to clause 3, for “five seers’’, 
substitute “five kilograms”. 

In the proviso to clause 3, for “five maunds’, 
and “five seers”, substitute “two quintals’ 
and “five kilograms” respectively. 

In clause 5, for “20 seers” and “5 seers”, 
substitute “twenty kilograms" and “five 
kilograms” respectively. 

In the proviso to clause 3, for ‘To maunds" 
and “5 seers”, substitute “four quintals” 
and “five kilograms” respectively. 


In the proviso to clause 3, for “five seers”, 
substitute “five kilograms”. 

(i) In clause 3,— 

(a) in the first proviso, for “five Beers”, 
substitute “five kilograms”; 

(b) in the second proviso, for “ten maundB 1 2 ’, 

substitute “four quintals”; 

(ii) In the proviso to clause 4, for “forty* 
seers” and “five seers”, substitute “forty 
kilograms” and “five kilograms” respec- 
tively. 

In the proviso to clause 3, for "five seers”, 
substitute "five kilograms”. , 

In clause 3, — 

(i) in the first proviso for “five seers”, 
substitute “five kilograms"; 

(ii) in the second proviso, for “ten maunds”, 
substitute “four quintals”. 


[No. 204 (GENL)(8)/478/6o-PY.II. 

G.S.R. 27 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955 ), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following Order to amend the Rice (Madhya Pradesh) Second Price Control Order, 
1958 , namely: — 

1 . This Order may be called the Rice (Madhya Pradesh) Second Price Control 
(■Amendment) Order, 1961 . 

2 . In the Table below Schedule IV to the Rice (Madhya Pradesh) Second Price 
Control Order, 1958 , — 

(a) under the heading ‘I Par-Boiled Milled Rice’, for Items 1 to 6 in column 
1 and the entries relating thereto in columns 2 to 5 , the following 
items and entries shall be substituted, namely: — 



“Constituents of admixture? or 
impurities 


Free toksance limit (per cent) 



2 Admixture of red grains 5 4 3 1 

3 Foreign matte . . . 1-25 0-75 0-75 0’5 


4 Discoloured, damaged and chalky 

grains. 

5 Mixture of lower grades. . 


1 



6 


4 


2 


Fine II Fine I 


Rate at which cuts shall he imposed for 
— admixtures or impurities exceeding the 
tolerance limits spetified in columns (2\ 
to (7) for coarse, medium II, Medium 
I, fine III, fine II and fine I 

67 8 


6 5 Coarse : — 

Over the tolerance limit and up to 30% 

Re. 0-04 per maund for every 1%. 

Over 30% Re. 0 08 per maund' for 
every 1%. 

Medium II : — 

Over the tolerance limit and up to 20% 

Re. 0 05 per maund for every 1%. 
Over 20% Re. o- 08 per maund for every 

1%. 

Medium I : — 

Over the tolerance limit and up to 19% 

Re. 0, 06 per maund for every 1%. 

Over 19% Re. 0-09 per maund for 
every 1 %. 

Fines III, II and I : — 

Over tolerance limit Re. 0-09 per maund 
for every 1%. 

1 1 Over tolerance limit Re. 0’02 per maund 

for every 1%. 

o -5 O ’ 5 Over tolerance limit at full value of the 

rice equivalent to foreign matter. 

0-5 O’ 5 Over tolerance Emit Re. 0 03 per maund 

for everyi%. 

2 2 Medium II & I : — t 

Over t ol era nc e Emit Re. o - 02 per maund 1' 
for every 1%. 


u> 

u> 


Sec, 3 ( 1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7 , 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


u> 

-u 


2 3-4 5 6 7 


8 


6 

7 


Fine III : — 

Over 2% and np to 6% Re. 0 04 per 
mannd for every 1%. 

Over 6% Re. 0-09 per mannd for 
every 1%. 


Moisture content 
Dehusfced gr ains 


15 15 15 *5 15 

65544 


Fine II : — 

Over 2% and up to 5% Re. 0 04 per 
maund for every 1%. 

Over 5% Re. 0 09 per maund for 
every 1%. 

Fine I 

Over 2% and up to 4% Re. 0-04 per 
maund for every 1%. 

Over 4% Re. 0 09 per maund for 
every 1%. 

15 Over tolerance Kmit at full value of the rice 
equivalent to moisture content. 

4 Over tolerance limit Re. 0-02 per maund 
for every 1%.”; 


(b) under the heading ‘III Raw Rice’, after item 6 and the entries relating thereto, the following item and entries s hall be inserted, 

namely 

Dehusked grains . . 5 5 5 4 4 4 Over tolerance limit Re. 0-02 per maund 

foreveryi%.” 


(No. 2 oi(MP)(5)/479/6o-PY. II) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7 , 1961 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 [Part II 



Sec, 8(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/P AUSA 17, 1882 


35 


New Delhi , the 31at December 1960 

G.S.R. 28.— In exorcise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1965 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following Order to amend the Rice (Punjab) Second Price Control Order, 
1960, namely: — 

1. This Order may be called the Rice (Punjab) second Price Control (Amend- 
ment) Order, 1961. 

2. In the Schedule to the Rice (Punjab) Second Price Control Order, 1960, — 

(1) in Apeendix I and Appendix II, after note (3), the following note shall 

be inserted, namely: — 

‘‘(4) In case the admixture of inferior varieties mentioned in 2(b) is 
more than 5 per cent and the incidence of red grains mentioned 
in Item 4 is below 6 per cent such excess admixture of Inferior 
varieties may be adjusted against and to the extent of the short- 
fall of red grains from 0 per cent and the excess admixture so 
adjusted may be deemed to be red grains subject to a cut where 
applicable at quarter value specified against item 4 above.”; 

<ii) in Appendix 111(a) and Appendix 111(b), after note (2), the following 
note shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(3) In case the admixture of inferior varieties mentioned In item T Is 
over 10 per cent and the incidence of red grains mentioned in 

item 3 la below 0 per cent such excess admixture of inferior varie- 

ties may be adjusted against and to the extent of the shortfall of 
red grains from 0 per cent, and the excesB admixture bo adjusted 
may be deemed to be red grains subject to a cut where applicable 
at quarter value specified against item 3 above.” 

[No. 201 (PB)(7)/ 480/60-PY.II.] 

G.S.R. 29 In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 

Commodities Act, 1956 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 

following Order to amend the Madhya Pradesh Foodgrains (Restrictions on 

Border Movement) Order, 1959, namely: — 

1. This Order may be called the Madhya Pradesh Foodgrains (Restrictions on 
Border Movement) (Amendment) Order, 1961. 

2. In the proviso to clause 3 of the Madhya Pradesh Foodgrains (Restrictions 
on Border Movement) Order. 1959, after item (vi), the following item shall be 
inserted, namely:- — 

“(vii) under and in accordance with the Madhya Pradesh Foodgrains (Ex- 
port Licence) Order. 1960.” 

[No. 204 (WFZ)(2)/ 481/00-PY.II.] 
8. N. BHALLA, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 28 th December 1960 

G.S.R. 30. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
recruitment and some-other conditions of service of certain persons appointed to 
carry out measures financed from the Coal Mines Labour Housing and General 
Welfare Fund constituted under section of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund 
Act, 1947 (32 of 1947), namely: — 

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may be called the Coal 
M ines Labour Housing and General Welfare Fund (Recruitment to Class III and 
Class IV posts]" Rule's, 1960. 

(2) They shall come Into force at once. 


3<5 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1 961/ PA USA 17. 1882 [Part II 


2. Recruitment. — The classification, method of recruitment and certain other 
matters relating to the posts specified in column 2 of the Schedule to these rule* 
shall be as specified In other relevant columns thereof. 

3. Disqualification. — No person who has more than one wife living or marrying 
a person having a wife living shall be eligible for appointment to any post referred 
to In rule 2: 

Provided that the Central Government may, in any exceptional case, and for 
reasons to be recorded In writing, exempt any person from the operation of this 
rule. 




TlSE ScHEDfrfifc 


SL 

Name of the 

No. of 

its Classifi- Scale of Pay 

Whether 

Age | Education and 

Whether 

Period 

Method of rec- 

In case of vacan- 

No. 

Post 

posts 

cation in Rs. 

a selec- 

limit other qualifica- 

age and 

of pro- 

ruitment t.e, di- 

des filled by pro- 





tion post 

fordi- lion 

educatio- 

bation, 

rect recruitment 

motion/ transfer/ 





or non- 

red rec- 

nai quali* 

if any 

or by transfer and 

glades/sources 





selection 

ruit- 

location 


percentage* of Va- 

from which pro- 





post 

ment 

prescribe 


cancy to be filled 

motion, transfers 







ed for di- 


by the Various 

are to be made 







rect rec- 


methods 

and thefr scale of 


ruitmegt pay in Rs. 

will apply 

in case of 

pr o motion/ 

transfer 







Rs. 


Years. 

I 

Head Assis- 

I 

G.C.S. 

250—10—350 

Non-Se- 

20 — 24 


tant 


Class III. 
Minister- 
ial, Non- 
Gazetted- 


lection. 


2 

Accountant . 

2 

Si 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

3 

Head Clerk . 

15 

ss 

160—10 — 250 

Selection 

Si 


Years. 

A degree from a No. 2 By promotion Head derks 160 

recognised Uni- failing which — io — 250 

versity. direct recruit- 

ment- 100%. 

Do. Do. Do, Do. Do. 

aa „ „ „ (1) Senior Clerks 

80 — 220. 

(2) Stenographer 
(80 — 220). 

(3) Cashier 
(80 — 220). 

(4) Storekeepers 
(80 — 220). 

Provided cate- 
gories (2) (3) & 
(4) should work 
as Senior Clerks 
for 2 years be- 
fore promotion 
as Head Clerks. 







4 Senior Cleric/ 
Assistant 
Accountant 



9 Assistant Ins- 
pector La- 
bour Welfare * 


n 


8 


9 


10 


ii 


12 


Intermediate/ No. 

Senior Cam- 
bridge /Higher 
Secondary Cer- 
tificate or equi- 
valent qualifi- 
cations. 

A degree from „ 
a recognised 
University. 

Intermediate/ „ 

Senior Cam- 
bridge /Higher 
Secondary Cer- 
tificate or equi- 
valent quali- 
fications. 


Matriculation or 
equivalent qua- 
lifications until 
replaced by 
Higher Secon- 
dary. Profi- 
ciency in typ- 
ing. 

Graduates with 
training in Sodal 
Welfare WorL 


Junior Qerks 
(6o— 130). 
Stenographers. 
(80 — 220). 
Cashier 
(80 — 220). 
Store-Keepers 
(80 — 220). 
Stenographer 
(80 — 220) 


years 

2 25% Direct 

75% Promotion 


By Promotion 
failing which 
by direct rec- 
ruitment. 

Direct (Depart- 
mental can- 
didates will 
also be consi- 
dered). 


By promotion fei- Junior Clerk 
ling which by (60 — 130) 
direct recruit- 
ment. 

Direct. 


50 %Direct. Junior Assis- 
50% Promotion, taut Inspector 
Labour Welfare 
(150—300). 
Assistant Wel- 
fare organisers 
(;50— 300). 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7 , 1961 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 [Past II 





Do. 


13 


Do. 


Do. 


Promotion 100% Health Visitor 
(125 — 225) and 
Field Worker 
(80—220) 

66-2/3% Direct. Senior Clerk 
33-1/3% Pro- (So — 220). 

motion. Field Worker. 

(80 — 220). 


Experience in Does not 
the line. arise. 


66-2/3% Direct. 

33-1/3% Pro- 
motion. 

Direct/or Pro- 
motion if sui- 
table depart- 
mental candi- 
dates are avai- 
lable 100 %, 


Senior Clerk 
(80 — 220). 

Field Workers 
(80—220). 


Knowledge of 
Motor Driving. 


Graduate and 
knowledge of 
accounts and 
purchase of 
stores. 

Graduate with 
knowledge of 
Social work 
and diploma in 
Social Educa- 
tion. 


Do. Cleaners (30 — 

1/2—35) and 
other class IV 
male staff (30 — 

1/2—35). 

Promotion 100% From lower cad- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 



2 


3 


5 


Rs. 

i8 Field Worker 65 G.C-S- 80—5—120 

Class IU — EB— 8— 

Noe-Ministerial 200 — 10/2 — 


19 Store-keeper 6 

20 Welfare Wor- 66 

leer 

21 Physio- The- 2 

ropist 

22 Ward Sister . 23 


Non- 220 
Gazetted 


100 — 5—125 
— EB- -6 — 
155 — EB — 
6—185* 

60 — 3— Si — 
— EB— 4— 
125—5—130 


200—10—400 


G. C. S. 200—10—300 
Class III. — plu* 15/- 
Non-miids- dhobi allow- 
teriaLNon- ance and 
Gazetted- uniform al- 
lowance. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Past II 



13 Sister tutor . t M 25c — 10 — 300 . s 35 

Rs. is/-dhobi 
ard uniform 
allowance. 


24 StafFNurse . 100 


too— 5— 125 
—6-185 
plus Rs. 15/- 
dbobi and 

1 1 n ifcrr in al - 


25 


lowaace. 


tered nulsd 
and midwife 
With B.Sc. 

(Hons.) or pass 
de^ee in Nor* 
sing and three 
years expe- 
rience as a staff 
Nurse. 

A registered Does not 
Nurse and arise 
Midwife with 
B.Sc. (Hons-) 
or pass Degree 
in Nursing 
with three 
years teaching 
experience in 
a school of 
Nursing or A 
registered Nurse 
and Midwife 
with a Sister 
Tutor’s certi- 
ficate from a 
recognised ins- 
titution. 

A grade nursing No. Mid- 
and senior wives 
midwifery cer- who have 
rifi cates. Re- passed 
gistered in any the course 
of the States, in Gene- 
Experience at ral Nurs- 
least three ing and 
years as staff fulfil 
nurse in a big other pres- 
hospital is de- cribed 
sirable. qualifi- 

C atinM 

are eligi- 
ble for 
promo- 
tion. 


Direct. 


50% Direct. 
50% Promotion. 


Midwives and 
trained Nurses 
(60—130). 


Sec. 5(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


10 


II 


12 


25 


Probationary 
Nurse or 
Student Nurse 


3 2 


26 Midwives 


26 


27 House keeper 


28 X’ray tech- 
nician. 


10 


Rs. 


Years, 


Years, 


G.C.S. 
Class III 
Non- 

Ministerial 

Non- 

Gazetted ' . 


Stipend — Non- 

istyear Selection 

15/- p.m, 

2nd year 20/- p.m. 

3rd year 25/- p.m, 

4th year 30/- pun- 
Messing al- 
lowance 30/- pjn. 

Uniform al- 
lowance 
3‘75 pan- 
Dhobi al- 
lowance 
4-50 pun. 

Dearness ak 
lowance 40/- p-m- 

60—3—81— 

EB— 4— 
ray— 5— 130 
Plus 15/- 
dhobi and 
uniform al- 
lowance. 

60—3—81— „ 

EB— -4 — 125 
—5—130. 


EB— 8 — 200 
— 10/2— 200, 


25 Matriculation. 


Does not 
arise. 


Direct, 


25 Senior Mid- 
wifery certi- 
ficate and re- 
gistered in any 
of the States. 


Matriculation . D oes not 

Experience in arise. 
Managing a 
mess. 


Direct 


Matriculation 
with training 
in hospital la- 
boratory work. 
Preferably hoi- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7 , 1961 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 [Part II 




ding a Lab. 
Tech-’s dip- 
loma fr om a 
recognised In- 
stt. Expe- 
rience about 
three years. 


29 Laboratory 
Technician. 


10 III non -Mi- 80—5 — 120 — Non-Se- 25 
nisterial EB-^J5 — 200 — lection. 

Non-Ga- 10/2 — 220. 

Setted, 


Matriculation Does not 2 Direct, 
with training arise, 
in hospital 
laboratory work. 

Preferably hol- 
ding a Lab. 

Tech-’s dip- 
loma from a 
recognised 
Instt. Expe- 
rience three 
years. 


30 Stare-keeper 5 


Do. 


18 — '2i Intermediate/ No. 

Senior Cam- 
bridge /Higher 
Secondary Cer- 
tificate or equi- 
valent quali- 
fications and 
experience in 
the line. 


100% Promo- 
tion. 


31 Assistant 2 „ 60 — 3 — 81 — 

Store-keeper- EB— 4 — ’I25 

—5—130. S 


Matriculation or Does not „ Direct, 
e quivalent qua- arise . 

1 in cation rmtil 
replaced by 
Higher Secon- 
dary and ex- 
perience in the 
line. 


Store-keeper 
(60 — 130) 


W 


SEC. 8(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1901/PAUSA 17, 1882 



2 


3 


5 


6 


Rs. 

32 Chief Com'- 2 Ilf Hon- 60—3 — 'Si — EB — . . 

pounder. Ministerial 4 — 125—5 — 130 

Noa-gazet- Pius Rs. 10/- 
ted special pay. 


33 Compounder 31 „ 60 — 3 — 81 — 

(Allopathy) EB — -4 — 125 — 5 

—130. 

34 Misery . 2 „ 60 — 5/2—75 


35 Craft Ins true- 2 „ I3o—8 — 200 

tor. 


36 Maasluer . 4 „ 60 — 5/2—75 

— 5 — 100. 


37 Lady Health 
Visitor. 


14 


125—10—225 
plus Rs- 15/- 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Pari II 



Dhobi and 
Uniform al- 
lowance. 


3$ Technical 
Assistant. 


4 60—5/2—75 

—5 — too. 


39 Store-keeper. 6 G.C.S. Class 60 — 3 — — Mon- 21 yrs. 

Ill non- EB — 4 — 125 Selection 

minis terial — 5 — 130 

n on- 
gazetted. 

40 Civtil Assist- 1 „ 120 — 8 — . , 25 yrs. 

ant Surgeon 160—10 — 200 

Grade II. — EB —10 

300 — plus 
25% of pay 
non-practis- 
ing allow- 
ance. 

41 Divisional Ac- 3 Ministerial too — Prob — Nod- „ 

countant. . Non- 1 50 — to— 200 Selection 

gazetted. — EB — 15 — 

355- 


42 Senior Drafts- 2 Non- 150 — 7 — 185 » >» 

man. ministerial 255 

N on- 
gazetted. 



Sec. 3(i)j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1%1/PAUSA 17. 1883 


10 


II 


12 


Rs. 


Years. 


43 Junior Drafts- 
man 


5 Non-minist- 100—5 — 125 Noo-se lection 
erial Non — EB — 6 — 
gazetted 165 — EB — 6 

185. 


44 

Vaid . 

15 

» 

120—5—195— 

7—230 

45 

Compounders 

(Ayurvedic) 

15 

33 

45—21—80— 
3— no 

46 

Overseer 

22 

n 

100 — 8 — 140 — 
EB — 10 — 


300 


yes- 


from the re- 
cognised Ins- 
titute and have 
worked as 
Draftsman in 
a Civil En- 
gineering De- 
ptt. for 5 
years. 

25 Qualified Dra- 
ftsman from 
a recognised 
Engineering 
Institution with 
five years Ex- 
perience in 
Buildings, De- 
signs and 
Drawing and 
sound know- 
ledge in esti- 
mating essen- 
tial. 

, Diploma holders. Does not 
arise 

,, Do. 


Matriculate and 
should possess 
a Diploma in 
Civil Engineer- 
ing institute. 
Experience in 
budding pre- 
ferred. 


Years. 


Promotion 
too % 


From Tracer (60 
— 4 — 120 EB — 
5—150) 




Direct. 


Does not arise. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, I96I/PAUSA 17, 1882 



47 Surveyor . i „ 6 a — 4—120 — 

EB— -5 — 150 


48 Tracer . 6 „ Do. 


49 Ferro Printer 2 „ 6 a — 5/2 — 75 

50 Pump -am- 1 „ 150 — 10 — 250 

Engine 

Mechanic 


75—3—125 Non- 
selection. 


51 Electrician . 


2 




Matriculate po- „ 

ssessing Survey 
cotificate of 
Competency 
from the Deptt. 
of Mines in 
India, Dhan bad. 

Matriculate with „ 

5 years, exper- 
ience in some 
Drawing Office 
as a Tracer or 
apprentice. 

Should be able 
to understand 
drawings and 
trace neatly. 

Experience in Does not 
the line. arise. 

Matriculate. „ 

The candidate 
should hold a 
diploma io En- 
gineering from 
any recognised 
Technical In- 
stitute and 
should have at 
least 10 years’ 
exprerienoe in 
the mainte- 
nance and up- 
keep of pumps; 
motor vehicles, 
steam Road 
Rollers etc. 

Experience in No. 
the line. 



Sec, S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


10 


II 


12 


52 Plumber 

53 Engine Driver 

54 Wiremm 

55 Switch Board 

Attendant. 

56 linesman 

57 Drama-oan- 
Music Master. 


s8 Aduh Educa- 
tion Instructor. 


59 Senior Mala- 
ria Inspector. 


60 Assistant En- 
tomologist. 


1 TO — Non- 
Ministerial 
non- 
gazetted. 


Rs. 

75 — 5/2 — 100 Neat 


Neat- 25 Yens Experience in Does not 2 Yeats Direct. 
Selection. the line, arise. 


60 — 5/2 — 100 

60— 2i— 75 
Do. 

Do. 

150 — 10 — 250 
EB — 10 — 300 


73 Ministerial 
non- 
gazetted 


Non- 

Ministerial 

aon- 


60 — 3 — 81 — 
EB — 4 — 125 — 
5—130. 


185 — 8 — 22s Non- 

Sekction. 


Do. 


Driving ex- 
periences. 
Experience in 
the line. 


„ Intermediate/ 

Senior Cam- 
briige /Higher 
Secondary cer- 
tificate or equ- 
ivalent quali- 
fication and 
experience in 
the line. 

18 — 21 Matriculation or 

years. equivalent qua- 
lification un- 
til replaced by 
Higher Second- 
ary and exper- 
ience in the 
line. 

25 Matriculation & 

years training in 

Malariology. 

5 > Graduate and 

training is 
Malariology. 


No. 


Promotion 

100% 


From Malaria 
Inspector. 

(Rs. 100 — 185). 

From Laboratory 
Assistant 
(60—5/2—75—3 
105 )- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7 . I 961 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 [Part II 



6i 

Malaria In- 

29 


100 — 5 — 125 — 6 


Matriculation & ' 

33 

33 

Promotion 50% 

From Malaria 

spector. 


— 155— EB— 


training in 



Direct 50%. 

Sub- Inspector 




6—185 


Maiariology. 




(Rs. 60 — 5/2 — 
75 — 3 — 105 ). 


62 

Draftsman . 

1 


60 4 120 » a 


Matriculation & 

33 

33 

Direct. 





EB- — 5 — 150 


knowledge in 
the line. 






63 

Fitter . 

5 


75—3—105 

» 

Experience and 

Does not 

33 

33 

Does not arise. 





knowledge in 
the line. 

arise. 






64 

Malaria Sub- 

25 

n 

60—5/2—75— 

>3 

MatricuUlon 

33 

33 

33 

33 

Inspector. 



3—105 







65^ 

Laboratory 

16 

>3 

Do. 


Do. 

33 

33 

« 2 ■ 

i „ 


Assistant. 










66 

Insect Col- 

25 

33 

Do. 


Do. 

33 

33 

33 

33 

67 

lector. 

Assistant Dra- 

1 


80 — 5 — 120 — 

25 

Matriculation or 

33 

33 

33 

33 

ma-cmw-Mu- 



EB — 8 — 200 

years. 

equivalent un- 






sic Master. 



— 10/2 — 220 

til replaced 
by Higher 
Secondary. 







8 

Qcrk-atw- 

2 

Ministerial 

60 — 3 — Si — «. 

18 — 21 

Do. 

Yes 

33 

Promotion 100% From Junior 

Store-Keeper 


non- 

EB — 4 ' — 125 ”~ 

years. 





Clerk (60 — i 3 o). 




gazetted. 

5 — 130 — phis 

Rs. 20/- 
special pay. 







69 

Fitter Mechanic 

I 

Ill non- 

60 — 5 / 2—75 

25 

Experience in 

Does not 

2 years Direct. 

Does not arise- 


ministerial 



the line. 

arise. 







non- 











gazetted. 








70 

Water Meter 

1 

» 

75—3—105 

3 3 

33 

33 

33 

33 

33 

Reader. 7 

Electric Meter 

1 

33 

Do. 

93 

33 

33 

33 

33 

33 

71 

Reader. 










72 

Projector Op- 

9 

» 

60—5/2—75 

33 

33 

33 

33 

33 

33 

erator. 











Sec. 3(1)] THE CAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, Wfll/PAUSA 17, 1882 


2 


3 


5 


6, 



76 Artist 


1 


33 


9 


TO 


II 


12 


CA 

O 


Certificate of Does not 
physical train- arise, 

ing from a re- 
cognised In- 
stitute and 
good know- 
ledge of Gym- 
nastics. Prac- 
tical experience 
for about 2 
years. 

Matriculation or No 
equivalent qua- 
lifications un- 
til replaced 
by Higher Se- 
condary with 
prescribed di- 
ploma in Music 
or degree 
from recog- 
nised Insti- 
tution. 

Intermediate / „ 

Senior Cam- 
bridge / ftigher 
Secondary cer- 
tificate or 
equivalent qu- 
alification. Dip- 
loma in L. S. 
Government 
Deptt. 

Intermediate / 

Senior Cam- 
bridge / Higher 


2 Years. 



Direct- Does not arise. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17. 188? [Part II 




77 Manoal Train- 
ing Teacher. 


150 — 10 — 250 
EB — 10 — 300 


78 Teacher in 
SocM Science. 


200 — 10 — 30c — „ 

15—450 


70 Lecturer for 1 

Welfare Per- 
sonnel Train- 
ing Institute 
Course. 

go X-Ray Therapy 
Assistant. 


>3 


-do- 


n » 




>3 


I 




60 — 4 — 120 



Sec. 8 (i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDtA : JANUARY 7, 1961/EAU5A 17, 1882 



8 


9 


10 


ii 



years. 

25 Matriculation No 

with training 
in hospital 
work. Prefer- 
ably holding a 
X-Ray Therapy 
Technical Dip- 
loma from a 
recognised In- 
stitution. Ex- 
perience about 
3 years. 

,, Matriculation „ 

with training 
in Hospital 
work. Prefer- 
ably holding 
a technicians 
diploma from 
a recognised 
institution. 

25 Intermediate- ,, 

Senior Cam- 
bridge / Higher 
Secondary Cer- 
tificate or equ- 
ivalent quali- 
fication holding 
a degree or dip- 
loma in Bas- 
ket Making 

etc. 

■ 1 jj h i at rtc 1 j [ h upn or ^ 

equivalent qu- 
alifications un- 
til replaced. 



THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : JANUARY 7, 196I/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Part II 




85 Record Sup- 

plier. 

86 Cfaowkidar . 

87 Daftry • 

88 Peon . 

89 Sweeperl 

90 Cleaner 

91 Labourers 

92 DaifAyah "3 

(Women’s 
Welfare 1 
Centre) 

93 Dresser 

94 Head Cook 


1 Class IV 3 ;— 1 — 50 

non- 
gaze tted. 

58 „ 1 30—1—35 


6 

1 71 
174 

21 

2 

77 


35—1—50 

3° — 1 — 35 
30—1—35 


40 — 1 — 50 — 2 - 
60 

40 — 2 — 60 


by Higher Se- 
condary with 
prescribed di- 
ploma 
tailoring. 


in 


CLASS IV 
25 years Middle pass. 


Preferably an 
ex- Serviceman 

Middle Pass 
Experience in 
the line. 


No 


Middle pass. 


Experience 

line. 


Does not 
arise. 


in No 


Middle Pass 
Experience in 
the line. 


Studies upto 

Matriculation. 
Passed in 

Dressership 
examination. 


Exprience 
the line. 


in 


Experience in 
cooking vege- 
terian and non- 
vegetarian dish- 
es. 


By Promotion 


Peon 

(30—1—35) 


[ Promotion fail- Peon. 

ing which by ( 30 — J — 35 ) 

direct recruit- 
ment. 

Direct. 


k> 


Promotion 

100 % 


From Cook 
( 30 — 2 — 50 ) 


U-> 


Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE- OE INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1061/PAUSA 17, 1882 



2 


3 


5 


6 


Rs. 


95 

Nursing Or- 
derly /Dress- 
ing Com 
Nursing 
Orderly. 

7 

Class IV non- 40 — 2 — 60 
gazetted 


0 

Dhobi 

25 

33 

33 

•• 

97 

Cook 

29 

33 

30 — 2—50 

•• 

9» 

X-Rsy attend- 
ant. 

2 

93 

33 

-- 

99 

Tailor 

2 

33 

35 — 1 — 50 


TOO 

Ward & Kit- 
chen Servant 
(Male) 

ior 

33 

30 — *—35 

• • 

IOI 

Do. (Female) 

38 

39 

33 

•• 

102 

MaB . 

20 

39 

33 

- • 

103 

Animal Room 
Care Taker. 

2 


33 

•• 

104 

Laboratory At- 
tendant. 

4 

33 

33 

-• 

103 

Post Mortem 
Room Atten- 
dant. 

2 

33 

S3 

"* * 


Liftman . 

8 

33 

93 

33 

IC 7 

Bhiaty 

6 

33 

93 


ioS 

Ayah for 

Hospital. 

li 

33 

39 



8 


9 


io 


ii 


12 


25 Years 

Studies upto 
Matriculation 
Passed in Dres- 
sership exa- 

mination. 

Docs not 
arise. 

2 Years 

Direct. 

33 

Experience in 
washing. 

33 

33 

33 

33 

Experience in 
cooking vege- 
tarian & non- 
vegetarian dishes. 

33 

33 

99 

S3 

Read upto Ma- 
triculation. 

33 

3* 

39 

33 

Experience in 
the line. 

33 

33 

n 

3> 

Preferably art- 
ex-serviceman. 

33 

33 

99 


Experience in 
tie line. 

39 

33 

33 

99 

Experience in the 
line. 

39 

93 

99 

33 

33 

33 

33 

33 

33 

33 

33 

39 

93 

33 

33 

33 

99 

33 

93 

33 

73 

33 

33 

33 

3) 

73 

33 

33 

33 

3» 

39 

33 

33 


Does not arise. 

99 

3> 

W 

*5 

/ 

J5 

3* 

33. 

33 

33 

33 

33 

39 



The Gazette of India : January 7 , 1961 /PausA 17 , 1882 [Part li 




to 9 

Assistant Line- 
man. 

4 


h5o 


33 

33 

33 

13 

13 


no 

Barkan das 

3 

JJ 

30— §— 35 


33 

33 

33 

3. 

73 

Si, 

III 

Khalasi 

5 

3» 

33 


33 

Preferably an 
ex-serviceman. 


» 



112 

Attendant 

52 

33 

33 


3 

31 

S3 

I! 



113 

Assistant 

Switich Board 
Attendant. 

2 

37 

40 — 2 — 60 

■ ■ 

J> 

Experience in 
the line. 

33 

33 

71 


114 

Sweeper on 

Rs. 7 . 

1 

33 

30-4—35 

(Part-time) 


33 

3) 

33 

33 

» 


115 

Sweeper on 

Rs. 20 . 

50 

33 



33 

33 

33 

33 



Il6 

Ferro Printing 
Mazdoor. 

2 

33 

30 — i — 35 


33 

33 

r. 

S3 

S3 

33 

117 

Khans ama-cum- 
Chowkidar. 

1 

33 

33 


33 

33 

33 

73 

:: 

S3 

Il8 

Telephone At- 
tendant. 

6 

33 

33 


33 

33 

31 

33 

13 

37 

119 

Male . 

X 

37 

35— 1 — 5S 


33 

31 

33 

33 

37 

11 


Note. — (i) The upper age limit prescribed for direct recruitment shall be relaxed in the case of Scheduled Castes/Tribes, displaced persons and other 
Special categories in accordance with the general orders issued from rim e to time by the Government of India Ministry of Home Affairs. 
( 2 ) Relaxation of educational qualifications may, however, be granted in casts where the candidates are found otherwise well qualified. 

[No. M-H.5(3)/S7.] 


O'- 


Sec. S(i)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 19G1/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Part II 


New Delhi, the 29th December I960 

G.8.R. 31. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 58 of the Mines 
Act, 1952 (35 of 1952) , the Centra! Government hereby makes the following rules 
to amend the Mines Rules, 1955, the same having been previously published as 
required by sub-section (1) of section 59 of the said Act, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Mines (Amendment) Rules, 1960. 

2. In rule 30 of the Mines Rules, 1955, hereinafter referred to as the said rules, 
for the words “half a gallon” the words "two litres” shall be substituted. 

3. In clause (e) of rule 34 of the said rules, for the words “four feet” the word 
figures “l 1 25 metres” shall be substituted. 

4. In clause (3) of rule 43 of the said rules, for the -words and figures “100 
square feet” the words and figures “10 square metres” shall be substituted. 

5. In clause (a) of rule 63 of the said rules. 

(i) for the words and figures “150 square feet” the words and figures "14 
square metres” shall be substituted: and 

(ii) for the words and figures “a height to the lowest part of the roof of 
not less than 9 feet” the following shall be substituted namely: — 

"(i) in the case of a flat roof, a height of not. less than 2-5 metres to the 
lowest part of the roof; and 

(ii) where the roof is a sloping one, a height of not less than 1'8 metres 
to the lowest part of the roof apd of not less than 2-5 metres to 
the highest part of the roof”. 

6. In clause (b) of rule 65 of the said rules, for the expression “50 ft.” the word 
and figures “15 metres” shall be substituted, 

7. In the Second Schedule to the said rules— 

(i) in item (a) for the word and figures “2i feet”, the word and figures 
“0 - 75 metres” shall be substituted: 

(ii) in item (h), for the expression “4 1 ft. 3 ft., and 1 foot” the words and 
figures “1 ■ 40 metres, 0-90 metre and 0-30 metre” shall respectively 
be substituted. •' I 

8. In the Third Schedule to the said rules, in item (b) for the expression 
“4j ft., 3 ft,, 1 ft.,” the words and figures “140 metres, 0-90 metre and 0-30 
metre” shall respectively be substituted. 

[No. M. R./Am. (6) M-III-5 (5)60.J 
New Delhi, the 31st December 1960 

G.S.R. 32.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
83 of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following amendments in the Schedule annexed to the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. GSR 975 
dated the 11th August, 1900, namely: — 

In column 1 of the said Schedule, in clause (a) of item 1— 

(1) in sub-clause (ii), for the existing entry, the following entry shall be 

substituted namely: — 

“The Coke Factory of Bararee Coke Co,, Ltd., at Kendwadih, P.O. 
Kusunda. District of Dhanbad.” 

(2) In sub-clause (iil), for the existing entry, the following entry shall be 

substituted, namely: — - 

“The Coke Factory of Bhowra Coke Company at Bhowrah in the District 
of Dhanbad.” 

[No, 1 / 21 /60-MI. ] 
A. P. VEERA RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 




Sec, S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 19G1/PAUSA 17, 1882 


57 


New Delhi, the 2nd January 1961 

G.S.R, 33.— The following draft of certain rules to further amend the 
Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Central Rules, 1946, which the Central 
Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 
15, read with clause (b) of tection 2, of the Industrial Employment (Standing 
Orders) Act, 1946 (20 of 1946), is hereby published as required by sub-section 

(1) of the said section 15 for the information of the persons likely to be affected 
thereby; and no ice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consi- 
deration on or after the 15 th February 1961. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Draft Rules 

1... These rules may be called the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) 
Central (Amendment) Rules. 196 . 

2. In the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Central Rules, 1946. in 
Schedule I — 

(1) in Model Standing Order No, 13, for clauses (1) and (2) the follow- 

ing clauses shall be substituted, namely; — 

“(1) No workman employed in the es ablishment who has been In con- 
tinuous service for not less than one year under the employer 
shall have his service terminated until the workman has been 
given one month’s notice in writing indicating the reasons for 
termination and the period of notice has expired or the workman 
has been paid in lieu of such notice, wages for the period of 
notice; 

Provided that the provisions of this clause Bhall not apply to cases of 
retrenchment within the meaning of section 2(oo) of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947). 

(2) No workman employed in the establishment who has been in conti- 
nuous service for not less than one year shall leave the employ- 
ment except after giving one month’s notice in writing and the 
period of notice has expired, or paying the employer an amount 
equal to one month’s wages in lieu of such notice. 

Note. — The expression “continuous service" occurring in sub-clauses 
(1) and (2) above shall have the same meaning as assigned to 
it in clause (eee) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 (14 of 1947)’’; 

(2) in Model Standing Order No. 14 — 

(a) in clause (2), for the words “four days" the words “ten days” shall 

he substituted; 1 

(b) in clause 3 — 

(i) in sub-clause (g), the word ‘habitual’ shall be omitted; 

(li) after sub-clause (k) the following sub-clauses shall be inserted 
namely; — 

“(1) smoking in prohibited places, 

(m) sleeping while on duty, 

(n) deliberate slowing down of work, 

(o) conviction in any court of law for an offence involving moral 

turpitude, 

(p) giving false information regarding one’s name, age, father's 

name, qualification or previous service at the time of employ- 
ment, 

(q) threatening, abusing or assaulting any superior or co-worker, 

(r) habitual money-lending, 

(s) preaching of or inciting to violence.”; 

(c) for clauses (4) and (5), the following clause shall be substituted, 

namely: — 

“(4) (a) Where allegations of misconduct are made against a work- 
man and the employer considers that he should be suspended 



5 « 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1061 /PA USA 17, 1882 [Part II 


from duly pending inquiry into such allegations, he may do so 
by serving on the workman an order in writing to that effect. 
Such an order shall take effect imm,dlately on delivery to the 
workman. It shall ba accompanied by a charge-sheet setting out 
the details of the alleged misconduct and the workman shall be 
given an opportunity of explaining the circumstances alleged 
against him. 

Cb) During the period of suspension the workman shall be paid a 
subsistence allowance equivalent to one-half of the average pay, 
as defined In section 2(aa) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947). 

(c) If on inquiry the workman has been found guilty of the charge 

and it is considered that an order of suspension will meet the 
ends of Justice, the employer shall pass orders accordingly. 
Where the period between the date on which the workman was 
suspended from duty pending inquiry into the allegations and 
Ihe date on which the final order of suspension was pas-red 
exceeds ten days, the workman shall be deemed to have been 
suspended only for ten days or for such shorter period as is 
specified in the final order of suspension and for the remaining 
period he shall be entitled to the same wages as he would have 
received if he had not been suspended, after deducting the sub- 
sistence allowance paid to him for such period. 

(d) If on inquiry the workman has been found guilty of the charge 

and it is considered that an order of dismissal will meet the 
ends of justice, the employer shall pass orders accordingly. 
When orders are passed the workman shall be deemed to have 
been absent from duty during the period of suspension and shall 
not be entitled to any remuneration for such period, but tho 
subsistence allowance already paid to him shall be not be 
recovered: 

Provided that in the case of workmen to who® the provisions of clause 
(2) of article Sll of the Constitution apply, the provisions of 
that article shall be complied with. 

M If on inquiry the workman has been foupd not guilty of the 
charge, he shall be deemed to have been on duty during the 
period of suspension and shall be entitled to the same wages 
as he would have received if he had not been suspended after 
deducting the subsistence allowance paid to him for Buch 
period." 

[No. F. LRI. 1(12)/B9.] 
A. L. HANDA, Under Secy. 


ERRATUM 


In the Gazette of India, Part II— Section 3(i), dated 31st December, 1960, on 
page 1966, after G.S.R. 1529, read "G.S.R. 1530" for "G.S.R. 1532”. 


ftllKTEP IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT Or INDIA PRESS, 
MlW D ELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1961 


