REGISTERED NA , n 


og 


The Gazekte 


of Endinnen 


सत्यमेव पण 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No . 1 ] 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


- 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 28th 
December , 1960 


Issue 
No . 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


153 . G . S . R . 1527, dated 24th Decem - 

ber, 1960. 


Ministry of Food and 

Agriculture . 


Amendment to G .S . R . ! 

No. 1172 , dated 24th 
Septerber, 1960 . 


154 . 


G . S . R . 1567, dated 28th Decem 
ter , 1960 , 


Do. 


Amendment to Notlica 

tion No . 1981-Agri. of 
the late Department 
of Education , Health 
and Lands, dated 1st 
October, 1931, 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
undent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 


PART II - Section 3 - Sub -section (i) 
General Statutory Rules ( including orders, bye -laws etc . of a general 

character ) issued by the Ministries of the Government of India ( othor 
than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central Authorities ( other than 
the Administrations of Union Territories ) . 


MINISTRY OF LAW 


New Delhi, the 27th December 1960 
G . S . R . 4 ( Contract / Amendment 35 ) . - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( 1 ) of Article 299 of the Constitution , the President hereby directs 
that the following further amendmen s shall be made in the notification of the 


( 1 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 


[PART II 


Government of India in the Ministry of Law G . S . R . 1161 dated the 1st December, 
1958 relating to the execution of contracts and assurances of property , panely :-- - 

In the said notification 

1. In Part VII which relates to the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, under 
Head A , after item 6 , the following items shall be inserted , namely : 
" 7 . Contracts and other instruments relating to the Directorate of Exten 

slon ; by the Director ( Administration ), Directorate of Extension . 
8 . Contracts and other instruments relating to the Extension Education 

Institute , Nilokheri; by the Principal, Extension Education Institute , 
Nilokheri." 


on; by the ther instrumentsrincipal 
, 


2. Part X which relates to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting shall 
be substituted for the following, namely : 

" X . -- In the case of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting: - - 
1. In the case of the All India Radio : 
(1) Contracts and other instruments relating to the All India Radlo ; by 

the Director General , the Deputy Director General ( Administra . 
tion ) , Project Officers, Station Directors , or where there is no Sta 
tion Director , by an Assistant Station Director, the Deputy Direc 
tor ( Administration ) , the Deputy Development Officer ( Adminis 

tration ) , All India Radio . 
( ii) All contracts and instruments relating to the publication of the Radio 

Journals ; by the Editor or the Assistant Editor of the Radio Jour 

ral concerned . 
( ii ) Contracts to be entered into with artistes engaged by the All India 

Radio ; by the Director of News Services, the Director of External 
Services, the Deputy Director of News Services, the Administrative 
Offlcer News Services Division , Deputy Directors External Services , 
Assistant Station Directors , or where there is no Assistant Station 
Director , by the Programme Executive, or where an Assistant 
Station Director is in charge of the Station , by the Programme 
Executive or where a Programme Executive is in charge of Auri 
Hary studio , by the Programme Executive, All India Radio , 


2 . In the case of the Press Information Bureau :-- 
All contracts and instruments rela ing to ( a ) purchasse, supply and con 

veyance or carriage of materials , stores , equipment etc . and repairs 
thereof; and (b ) disposal of surplus, obsolete and waste stores ; by 
the Principal Information Oncer , the Deputy Principal Information 
Oficer , the Assistant Principal Information Officer of the informa 

tiêm Officer, Julturdur. 
3 . In the case of the Publications Division : 
(1) All contracts and instruments relating to the writing of books, copy 

right, etc .; by the Director or the Deputy Director (Editorial) : 
( 11 ) All contracts and instruments relating to the printing and production 

of publications; by the Director or the Deputy Director (Produc 

tion ) . 
(111) All contracts and instruments relating to the sale . agency, stocking etc . 

of publications; by the Director , the Business Manager or the Editor 
Akashwani, Awaz and Sarang in so far as such contracts and instru 

ments relate to and fall within his jurisdiction . 
(iv ) All contracts and agreements entered into with gazetted and non -gazet 

ted officers whom the Director of Publications Division has the power 
to appoint for specified period of service ; by the Director , Public 

tions Division . 
( v ) Agreements for the purchase or sale of stores, and other materials ( in 

cluding waste material) ; by the Director or the Deputy Director , 

Publications Division . 
4. In the case of the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity : 
( a ) All contracts and instruments relating to the advertisements , printing, 

publishing or issue of publications, space selling or exhibitions and 
( b ) agreements for the purchase or sale of stores , equipment and 


SEC , 3(1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 /PAUSA 17, 18823 


other materials ( including waste material) ; by the Director or the 

Deputy Director , Advertising and Visual Publicity . 
5 . In the case of the Films Division : 
( i) ( a ) Contracts to be en ered into with artistes and other persons engag 

cd by the Films Division in connection with the production of films; 
( b ) contracts relating to the processing work of the Films Division ; 
( e ) con ra ts for the sale of waste Alms, sweepings or other salvage 

inaterial; 
( d ) contracts for the purchase of wooden packing boxes and other 

stores , 
( c ) contracts and other instruments for the production of Alms for Gov 

ernment by private producers; 
( f ) contracts and other instruments relating to the purchase of Allms for 

the Films Division ; 
( 8 ) contracts with private distributors in India for the distribution of 

full length Alms released by the Alms Division ; and 
(h ) contracts for the sale of stock -shots ; by the Controller of Films Divi 

sion , Bombay . 
Hii) All contracts for supply on rentals for commercial and non - commer 

cial exhibition , free of rentals for non - commercial exhibition , and 
sale of prints of Alms produced and / or released by the Films Division ; 

by the Officer in - charge of Distribution , Films Division , Bombay . 
Kili ) All contracts relating to the commercial distribution of Films Division s 

Alms in foreign countries ; by the Controller of Films Division , Bom 
bay or the Head of the Chancery in the Indian Mission in the country 
in which the distributors are incorporated . 


6 . In the case of the Directorate of Field Publicity : 
(a ) All contracts and instruments relating to ( a ) purchase, supply and 

conveyance or carriage of materials , stores and equipment and re 

polrs thereof and (b ) disposal of surplus and obsolete stores ; and 
( b ) all contracts with registered dramatic troupes and artistes relating 

to thc Song and Drama Division ; by the Director of Field Publicity , 
Regional Omcers Directorate of Field Publicity , Information Officers 
Press Information Bureau while working in the Regions of Directo 

rate of Field Publicity in Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala States . 
7 . In the case of the Song and Drama Division : 
(i) ( a ) Contracts with authors of scripts for the purchase of coypright ; and 
( b ) agreements for the purchase or sale of stores , equipment and materials 

( including waste material ) ; by the Director, Şong and Drama Divi 

sion . 
( ii) Contracts with artistes ; by the Director , Deputy Directors, the Admin 

istrative Oncer , Song and Drama Division , Regional Officers Directo 
rate of Field Publicity , Information Officers Press Information Bureau 
while working in the Regions of the Directorate of Field Publicity 
in Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala States , Field Publicity Officers , 
Mass Contract Officers , Publicity Organisers , Directorate of Field 
Publicity . 


8 . In the case of the Central Board of Film Censors :--- 
Contracts and instruments relating to ( a ) purchase , supply and conveyance 

or carriage of stores , materials , equipment etc ., and ( b ) disposal of 
waste films, paper and other obsolete stores and materials ; by the 
Chairman , Central Board of Film Censors . 


9. In the case of the Research and Reference Division : 
All Contracts and instruments relating to the 
( a ) purchase , supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores, 

equipment etc . ; 
( b ) disposal of surplus, obsolete and waste paper ; 
Vc ) binding of books, newspapers, etc.; and 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/ PAUSA 17 , 1882 


[PART 1] 


(d ) payment of advance subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, 

magazines , periodicals etc .; by the Deputy Director , Research and 

Reference Division , 
10 . In the case of the Integrated Photo Unit : 
All contracts and instruments relating to the 
(a ) purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of materials , stores and 

equipment and repairs thereof; 
(b ) disposal of surplus, obsolete and waste stores ; and 
( c ) sale of waste films, sweepings or other salvage materials ; by the Chief 

Photo Officer, Integrated Photo Unit. 


11. In the case of the Film Institute of India : — 
All contracts and instruments relating to the 

( a ) sale of waste films and other scrap materials ; 
(b ) servicing of cinematograph equipments and air conditioners etc .; and 
( c ) purchase of films for the Film Institute ; by the Principal, Film In 

stitute of India , 


12 . Security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants whom the 
officers specified below have the power to appoint, or their sureties, to secure 
the due execution of an office or the due accounting for money or other property 
received by virtue thereof; by the Director General All India Radio , the Deputy 
Director General (Administration ), All India Radio , the Principal Information 
Oncer , the Director Publications Division , the Director of Advertising and Visual 
Publicity , the Deputy Director (Administration ) Directorate of Advertising and 
Visual Publicity , the Controller Films Division , the Administrative Officer Films 
Division , the Director of Field Publicity , Regional Officers Directorate of Field 
Publicity , Information Officers, Press Information Bureau while working in the 
Regions of the Directorate of the Field Publicity in Jammu and Kashmir and 
Kerala States , the Director Song and Drama Division , the Chairman Central Board 
of Film Censors, the Deputy Director Research and Reference Division , the Regts 
trar of Newspapers for India , the Principal of the Film Institute of India , 


13 . Agreements or leases for the hiring of buildings required for the accom 
modation of offices at places other than New Delhi, Simla , Calcutta and Bombay 
provided that such hiring is within his competence and that the period of lease 
does not exceed 5 years at a time; by the Principal Information Oncer Press In 
ment property ; by the Director or the Deputy Director Publications Division , the 
Deputy Director ( Administration ) Advertising and Visual Publicity , the Con 
troller Films Division , the Director of Field Publicity , Regional Officers of the 
Directorate of Field Publicity , Information Oncers Press Information Bureau 
while working in the Regions of the Directorate of Field Publicity in Jammu and 
Kashmir and Kerala States . 


14 . Contracts and other instruments relating to repairs , servicing etc ., of 
equipment, motor and all other types of vehicles , bicycles or any other Govern 
ment property ; by the Director or the Deputy Director Publications Division , the 
Director of the Deputy Director (Administration ) of the Directorate of Advertis 
ing and Visual Publicity , the Controller of Films Division , the Administrative 
Oficer Films Division the Director of Field Publicity , Regional Officers of the 
Directorate of Field Publicity , Information Officers Press Information Bureau 
while working in the Regions of Directorate of Field Publicity in Jammu and 
Kashmir and Kerala States, the Director Song and Drama Division the Chairman 
Central Board of Film Censors" . 

3 . In Part XI which relates to the Ministry of Irrigation and Power , after 
Head C , the following Head shall be inserted , namely : 
" D , In the case of the Ganga Discharge Circle and the Ganga Barrage Field 

Investigation Circle ( subject to any Umits Axed by the Departmental 
Orders ) : -- - 


and conveyance or 


1 . ( a ) All instruments relating to purchase . supply 

carriage of materials , stores and machinery ; 


Sec. 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 


(b ) all Instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con 

nected with buildings, bridges, roads, canals ; tanks ; reservoirs ; 
docks and harbours and embankments , generation and transmission 
of electricity and instruments relating to the construction of water 
works, sewage works, the erection of machinery , the working of 

coal mines and bulk supply of electricity ; 
(c ) bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance and 

completion of works; 
( d ) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants whom the 

officers specified below have powers to appoint or their sureties , to 
secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for 
money or other property received by virtue thereof; and 


se ) leases for grazing cattle on canal banks or road sides , for fishing in 

canals , for the cultivation of lands, leases of water for irrigation 
and other purposes , leases of water power and instruments relating 
to sale of grass , trces or other produce on road sides or in planta 
tions; by Superintending Engineers , Executive Engineers , Assistant 
Efecutive Engineers , Assistant Engineers or Sub -Divisional Officers . , 


2 . ( a ) Leases of houses, land or other immovable property provided that 

the rent reserved does not exceed Rs. 5 ,000 a month ; 
AD ) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security ; 
c ) agreements for the recovery of fines on account of drift wood or other 

timber passing into a canal ; 
ha ) agreements relating to crossing of canals, roads and bunds; 
( e ) Instruments connected with the collection or farming of tools at 

bridges or ferries or other means of communication ; 
41) agreements relating to the loan of tools and plant to contractors and 

others ; and 
( g ) contracts for catering in hostels and tiffin rooms or for the protection 

of conveyance belonging to the staff working in public buildings ; 
by Superintending Engineers or Executive Engineers , 


4 . In Part XVIII which relates to the Ministry of Transport and Communica 
clong 
(i) Under Head A , after item B , the following item shall be inserted 

namely : - - 
" 7 . In the case of the Directorate General Border Roads: -- 
( i ) ( a ) All Instruments relating to purchase , supply and conveyance or 

carriage of materials, stores , machinery , and hiring of land and 

accommodation . 
( b ) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con 

nected with camp structures and buildings , including demolition 
and site clearance of buildings , bridges , canals , tanks and reser 
voirs , aerodromes and all Instruments relating to the construction 

of water , sewage and electrical works and the erection of machinery ; 
( c ) security bonds for the due performance and completion of works; 
( d ) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their 

sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due account 

ing for money or other property received by virtue thereof ; 
( e ) all service agreements with civilian personnel whom the officers 

specified below have powers to appoint; 
( 1 ) all contracts and instruments relating to (i) disposal of surplus and 

obsolete stores ( other than controlled item of iron and steel 
exceerling Rs. 500 / - in book value in cach category and textiles) 
not exceeding Rs. 5 ,000 / - in value in any single category , and 


6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7 , 1961 / PAUSA 17, 1882 


[PART II 


(II) waste stores; by the Director General Border Rouds, chtef 
Engineers, Independent Deputy Chief Engineers, other Deputy 
Chief Engineers with prior approval of the Director General 
Border Roads, Commanders Engineers , Commanders Task Forces, 
Garrison Engineers Works Sections, Officers Commanding Cons 

truction Companies, or Oficers Commanding Transit Depots, 
( 11) Agreements and other instruments relating to the taking bulk supply 


( a ) when the annual payment in each case does not exceed Rs. 10 , 000 / 

by Commanders Engineers or Commanders Task Forces ; 
( b ) when the annual payment in each case exceed is, 10 ,000 / - but does 

not exceed Rs. 1, 00 ,000 / - by Chief Engineers Or Independent 

Deputy Chief Engineers ; 
(c ) when the annual payment in each case exceed Rs. 1,00 ,000 / - by the 

Director General Border Roads. 
( iil ) Contracts and other instruments relating to the printing of forms etc. ; 

· by the Chief Engineers of Independent Deputy Chief Engineers." 
(ii) Under Head B , in clause ( i) of item 4 , after the words Controller og 

Mail Motor Service the words for the Controller of Telegraph 

Traffic shall be inserted 
5 . In Part XXII which relates to the Indian Audit and Accounts Department 
(1) In Item 4 , the following proviso shall be inserted at the end , namely : 
" Provided that in the case of advances granted by the Government to 

the Director of Audit, Indian Accounts , London , and the Audit 
Officer , Indian Accounts , Washington , such contracts , agreements 
and other instruments may also be executed by the Comptroller 
and Auditor General of India or the Deputy Comptroller and 

Auditor General of India . " 
( ii) In item 5 , the following proviso shall be inserted at the end , namely : 
" Provided that in the case of the officers and staff under the Director of 

Audit , Indian Accounts , United Kingdom or of officers and staff 
under the Audit Oficer , Indian Accounts , Washington , such con 
tracts and instruments relating to the grant of advances for the 
purchase of motor cars and motor cycles, may also be executed 
by the Director of Audit and Audit Officer , Indian Accounts , Lon 

don / Washington respectively ." 
6 . In Part XXIII which to the territories under the administration of the 
Chlef Commissioner , Delhi 
(1) In Item 2 , the list of officers authorised to execute contracts and other 

Instruments mentioned therein , shall be substituted by the follow 

ing, namely : -- 
" by the Deputy Commissioner , the Chief Secretaru , a Secretary , an 

Under Secretary to the Chief Commissioner or in so far as con 
tracts under ( c ) are concerned , by the Land and Development 
Officer , Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply , or in so far as 
contracts and instruments under clauses ( b ), ( c ) and (es are con 
cerned , by the Development Commissioner or the Assistant. Deve 

lopment Commissioner ." 
( ii ) In item 6 , the following proviso shall be inserted at the end , nainely : 
" Provided that in the case of the Development Department such con 

tracts and instruments may also be executed by the Assistant 
Derelopment Commissioner ." 

[ No . 17 ( 1 ) / 60 - 3 ] . 
P . K . BOSE , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, thu 26th December 1960 
G . S . E . 5 - T2 crecine of the power s confere liy section 4 of t ? , Foreig 
Juridiction , CI 1947 list of 1 47 . Ana sifull tur nuw is en ling it in this be 
half, the Coural Government livreby mokes the following Order na rin 

1 . ( 1 ) This Order may be callerl thc Requisitioning and cruisition au Jumov 
ahle Propert : 1 . 1 grill to 11 Slat . of Pondichril v ! ( 1 : 1 , 144 ) 


Suc, 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/ PAUSA 17, 1882 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


(2 ) It shall come into force at once . 

2 . ( 1 ) The provisions of the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Pro 
perty Act , 1952 (Act 30 of 1952 ), (hereinafter referred to as the said Act ), are 
hereby applied to , and shall be in force in the State of Pondicherry (hereinafter 
referred to as the sald State ) subject to 
( a ) any amendments to which the said Act is for the time being generally 

subject in the territories to which it extends, and 
(b ) the subsequent provisions of this Order , 
3 . Reference in the said Act to the State Government or to a low not in force , 
or to any functionary not in existence, in the said State , shall be construed as a 
reference to the Central Government or to the corresponding law , if any, in force 
or to the corresponding functionary in existence , in the said State , as the case 
may be : 

Provided that if any question arises as to who such corresponding functionary 
is , the decision of the Central Government thereon shall be Angl. 

[No. 668- Eur. W /60 / GP . } 
(No. 36 ( 13 )-Eur.- W /59 / GP . ) 
A . DAS GUPTA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 29th December 1960 
G . S . R . 6 .-- The following draft of certain rules to amend the Part C States 
Prize Competitions Rules , 1956 , in their application to the Union territories of 
Delhi, Himachal Pradesh , Manipur, Tripura and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 
which the Central Government propose to make in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by section 20 of the Prtze Competitions Act, 1955 ( 42 of 1955 ), is hereby 
published for the information of persons likely to be affected thereby as required 
by sub - section ( 1 ) of the said Section 

2 , Notice is hereby given that the draft rules will be taken into consideration 
on or after the 8th February 1961, and that any objection or suggestion which 
may be received from any person with respect thereto before that date will be 
considered by the Central Government. 

DRAFT RULES 
1. These rules may be called the Part C States Prize Competitions (Amend 
ment) Rules , 1961. 

2 . In the Part C States Prize Competitions Rules , 1956 , in Form B ; after con 
dition No. 3A , the following condition shall be inserted , namely : 
" 3B . In every prize competition the licensee shall deposit the solution , pre 

determined by him with reference to that prize competition , in a 
sealed cover with the Licensing Authority before any publication , 
ticket or coupon relating to such prize competition is issued by him ." 

[No. F . 20 / 25 / 60 P . II ( P .IV ) 
C . P . Ş. MENON , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi-11 , the 31st December 1960 
G . S . R . 7 .- - In pursuance of rule 11 of the Indian Administrative Service 
(Pay ) Rules, 1954, the Central Government after consultation with the Govern 
ment of Maharashtra , herehy makes the following amendments in Schedule III 
appended to the said rules . 
2 . The amendments shall lie deemed to have come into force on 1st May 1960 . 

Amendments 
In the said Schedule , 

( I ) uurder the heading " A - - ! osis ( arrying Duy ho s the time ile pay of the 
Inilian Administic Serii Wnder the Siote Governmeit " it ulitic of the 
cntri a ll " NI. horaslla" . 1110 following shall be turl . 

" Settlement Cununissioner and 
Director of Land Ricords 

2250 " ; 


8 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7 , 1961 /PAUSA 17, 1882 


[PART II 


(2 ) under the heading " B - Posts carrying pay in the senior time-scale of the 
Indian Administrative Service under the State Governments including posts 
carrying special pays in addition to pay in the time-scale " against " Maharashtra " , 
the following entry shall be deleted : 
" Settlement Commissioner and Director of Land Records." 

[No. 1 / 128 / 60 - AIS (II). ) 


G . S . R . 8 . - In pursuance of rule 11 of the Indian Administrative Service 
(Pay ) Rules , 1954 , the Central Government after consultation with the Govern 
ment of Rajasthan , hereby makes the following amendments in Schedule III 
appended to the said Rules , 

Amendments 
In the said Schedule III, 
( a ) Under the heading " A — Posts carrying pay above the time- scale pay 

in the Indian Administrative Service under the State Governments " --- 
Against " Rajasthan " the following entry shall be added 

" Commissioner for Departmental Enquiries .. .. . .. ... . . .. ... .. . . ... 2250 " 
( b ) Under the heading " B - Posts carrying pay in the senior time- scale of 

the Indian Administrative Service under the State Governments 
including posts carrying special pays in addition to pay in the time 

scale " 
against " Rajasthan " , the following entries shall be added 

" Principal, Officers Training School, Jodhpur. 
Director of Consolidation . 
Commissioner for Excise and Taxation : 

Labour Commissioner." 
2 . These amendments shall be deemed to have come into force with effect 
from 17th October , 1960 . 

[No. 1 / 165 / 60 -AIS (II). ] 
T . R . RAGHURAMAN , Under Secy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 29th December 1960 
G . S . R . 9 . - In pursuance of Clause ( 22 ) of Article 366 of the Constitution of 
India , the President is hereby pleased to recognise His Highness Maharaja Shri 
Daljit Singh as the Ruler of Idar with effect from 24th November 1960 in Buccog 
son to His late Highness Maharaja Shri Himmat Singhjf. 

[No. F . 3 / 46 / 60- Pol1.III.) 
L . P . SINGH , Addl. Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 


Delhi,the 3rd Decemberry s notification 


de 148India 


G . S . R . 10 . - In partial modification of this Ministry s notification No. 1 /83 /60 
AIS (II) , dated 3rd June, 1960 , published as G . S . R . 637 În the Gazette of India 
Part II, Section 3 ( i ) dated 11th June 1980 for the figures " 1650 – 75 – 1950 " appearing 
against the entry " Commissioner of Police " under " Gujarat " in part ( 1 ) ( 1) of the 
notification , the following figures shall be substituted 
" 1450 — 50 -- 1650 " 

[No. 1/ 83 / 60 -AIS ( II) ) 
T , C . A . SRINIVASAVARADAN , Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

( Department of Revenue ) 
New Delhi, the 7th January 1961 

CUSTOMS 
G . S . R . 11 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ), as in force in India and as applied 


Sec , 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 


to the State of Pondicherry the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendment in the notification of the Governinent of India , in the Ministry 
of Finance ( Department of Revenue ) No. G . S . R . 575 ( 55 / F No. 34 / 86 /60 - Cus.IV .) , 
dated the 28th May, 1960 , namely :- - 


Amendment 
In the Schedule to the said notification , for the existing entry at Serial Number 
81 and entries relating thereto , the following shall be substituted , namely : - 
" 81 . All Wool Fabrics and mixed fabrics (including Hosiery ) containing 
wool and synthetic fibre " . 

[No. 133/ F . No. 34 / 297 / 60 -Cus .IV . ] 
MEDICINAL AND TOILET PREPARATIONS 
G . S . R . 12 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Medicinal 
and Toilet Preparations (Excise Duties ) Act, 1955 ( 16 of 1955 ), the Central Gov 
ernment hereby makes the following rules to amend the Medicinal and Toilet 
Preparations (Excise Duties) Rules, 1956 , namely 
1. These rules may be called the Medicinal and Toilet Preparations (Ex 

cise Duties ) Amendment Rules, 1960. 
2 . In the Medicinal and Toilet Preparations (Excise Duties) Rules , 1958 
(a ) under the heading Non -Pharmacopoeial Preparations , under sub 

heading Medicinal Preparations), 
(i ) the entry "ELIXIR MELAGDINE shall be omitted ; and 
( ii ) for the entry "Spiritus Limonis , the entry " Spiritus Lemonis ( except 

M / s . Calcutta Chemical Company s Lemon Syrup B . P . ) shall be 

substituted ; 
(b ) under the heading Non -Pharmacopoeial Preparations , under sub 

heading "TOILET PREPARATIONS , 
(i) for the entry "Eau - de - Cologne ( Except Tata s Eau -de - Cologne ) , the 

entry " Eau - de - Cologne ( Except Tata s, and Calcutta Chemical 

Co. s Eau -de - Cologne ) " and 
( ii ) for the entry Lavender Water , the entry Lavender Water (Except 

Calcutta Chemical Co . s Lavender Water) 
shall be substituted . 

[No. 1 - F . No . 45 / 5 ( 16 ) / 59 -Opium .] 


DANGEROUS DRUGS 
G . S . R . 13 . - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of rule 2 of the Central Opium Rules , 
1934 , the Central Government hereby makes the following amendments in the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department 
of Revenue ) , No. G . S . R . 1177 , dated the 8th October , 1960 and published in Part 
II Section 3 ( i) of the Gazette of India , dated the 8th October, 1960, namely : 
In the Schedule appended to the said notification , in Part I, for the entry 

in the third column against District "Gonda " , the following entry 

shall be substituted, namely , 
" Mahadewa, Nawabganj, Mankapur, Utraula , Balrampur; Gwarich and 
Digsir " . 

[No. 2- F . No. 6 /5 /60 -Opium .] 


CUSTOMS AND CENTRAL EXCISE 


G . S . R . 14. The following draft of rules further to amend the. Customs and 
Central Excise Duties Export Drawback (General) Rules , 1960 , which the 
Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 3 ) of section 43B of the Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) and sec 
tion 37 of the Central Excises and Salt Act , 1944 ( 1 of 1944 ), as in force in India 
and as applied to the State of Pondicherry , is published as required by the gold 
sub - section ( 3 ) of the said section 43B for the information of all persons likely 
to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be 
taken into consideration on or after the 8th February , 1961. 


IO 


TIIE GAZEITE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 / PAUSA 17, 1882 


[PART II 


2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

DRAFT RULES 
1 . These rules may be called the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export 
Drawback (General) Amendment Rules, 1960 . 

2 . In the First Schedule to the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export 
Dravback (General) Rules, 1960, for Serial Number 14 and entries relating 
thereto , the following shall be substituted, namely : - 
" 14 . Staple fibre yarn 

Six rupees and five naye paise per ifty 
Kilogrammes " . 

[No. 1/ F . No. 34 / 153 / 60 - Cus. IV . ) 
G . S . R . 15 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) and section 37 of the Central Excises 
and Salt Act , 1944 ( 1 of 1944 ) as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby makes the following further amend 
ment in the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export Drawback (General) Rules , 
1960, the same having been previously published as required under the said sub 
section ( 3 ) of section 43- B , namely : 

Amendment 
1. These rules may be called the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export 
Drawback (General ) Amendment Rules , 1960 . 


2. In the Second Schedule to the Customs and Central Excisc Duties Export 
Drawback (General) Rules, 1960 — 
(1) for the existing item at Serial Number 50 and entries relating thereto , 

the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" 50 . All wool fabrics and mixed fabrics ( including Hosiery ) containing 

wool and synthetic Albre" , 
(il ) for the existing item at Serial Number 43 and entries relating thereto 

the following shall be substituted , namely : - 
" 43. Air conditioners, Refrigerators and Water coolers" , 
( lil) the existing item at Serial Number 49 and entries relating thereto shall 
be deleted . 

[ No. 133 / F . No. 34 / 297 / 60 -Cus .IV . ] 

M . C . DAS, Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Revenue ) 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 7th January 1961 
G . S . R . 16 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act , 1944 11 of 1944 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby makes the following rules 
further to amend the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Central Excise (Second Amendment) Rules , 
1961. 

2. In the Central Exrisc Rules, 1941 — 
( 1) in rule 174 , 

(i) in item 310 ) , tuo pierd " and " shall be onnitted ; 
(ii) in itcm 311 ) , 111, 11, " and " shall be made 1 at h ul; 
Cu aftur innm Shot , lige fullo1114 shall be initiu , no107pli - 10 ) All 

Barbecropo v oliusto Tilir, bach0116 01!ir than those in the licensed 
11 : 111 5 11 w In wel 17 " ! ! " 


Sec , 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/ PAUSA 17, 1882 


IT 


(2 ) in the Tablc sub - joined to rule 176 , under the heading “ Manufactured 
Products " , after item IV , the following shall be inserted , namely 
" V . The holders of private bonded warehouses, other than 

those in the licensed premises of a manufacturer, 
which house manufactured excisable goods 

Rs. 25 . 00 ." 

[No. 2 / 61. ) 
L . M . KAUL , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH & CULTURAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-2 , the 30th Deceniber 1960 
G . S . R . 17 . — In pursuance of section 13 of the Indian Museum ( Amendment) 
Act , 1960 ( 45 of 1960) , the body corporate known as " the Trustees of the Indian 
Museum " is hereby re- constituted with effect from the 1st January , 1961, and the 
Trustees of the Indian Museum (as re -constituted ) shall be : – 

Ex -Officio Chuirman . 
1. The Governor of West Bengal; 

Er-Oficio Trustees. 
2 . The Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Scientific 

Research and Cultural Affairs ; 
3. The Mayor of the Corporation of Calcutta ; 
4 . The Vice -Chancellor of the University of Calcutta ; 

5 . The Accountant General, West Bengal; 
Trustees nominated by the Central Government, under cla1282 (f ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 

of section 2 of the Indian Museum Act , 1910. ( 10 of 1910 ) ; 
6 . Dr. Nihar Ranjan Ray , M .P ., 68 -4A , Purna Das Road , Calcutta ; 
7 . Shri Birendra Nath Mookerjee, 7, Harrington Street, Calcutta ; 
8 . Dr. S . K . Bhuyan , Vice- Chancellor , University of Gauhati, Gauhati ; 

9 . Director, Geological Survey of India , Calcutta ; 
Trustee nominated by the Government of West Bengal. under clause (g ) of sub 

section ( 1 ) of section 2 of the said Act . 
10 . Shri S . N , Ray, I.C . S : (Retd ) Calcutta ; 
Trustee nominated by the Council of the static Society , Calcutta under clause 

(h ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 2 of the said Act. 
11. Dr . U . N . Ghoshal, M . A ., Pḥ . D . , F . A . S . Calcutta ; 
2 . The nominated Trustees shall hold office for a period of three years from 
the 1st January, 1961, 

[No. F . 2 - 19 /60. C - 3. ) 
T . S. KRISHNAMURTI, Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF STEEL , MINES & FUEL 
( Department of Mines and Fuel ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 30th December 1960 
G . S . R , 18. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
24 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Art , 1937 (67 of 
1957 ), the Central Government herehy makes the following amenimº816 - in the 
Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel, De 
partment of Milcs and Fuel, No, NIII- 1.59 ( 15 ) / 58 , dated the 4th December , 1959 , 
naniely : 
In the Schoriz i to !! ! Quar 
1 .1 tlic entries relatin . to the Stars v indhral Trix ! - 110 ,1 1 - 1 orari 

as unrler : 
1 . Director of lines and Geology. 


12 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 /PAUSA 17, 1882 


[Part II 


2 . Senior Assistant Director of Mines . 
3. Deputy Director of Mines and Geology . 
4 . Assistant Director of Geology . 
5 . Assistant Geologists 
6 . Ccllector Kurnool. 
7. Collector Anantpur 
8 . Collector Cuddapah , 
9 . Collector Chittoor 
10. Collector Nellore. 
11. Collector Guntur . 
12 . Collector East Godavar . 
13 . Collector West Godavari 
14 . Collector Krishna . 
15 . Collector Srikakulam . 
16 . Collector Visakhapatnam . 
17 . Collector Hyderabad . 
18. Collector Medak . 
19. Collector Karimnagar, 
20 . Collector Mahbeebnagar 
21 , Collector Khammam , 
22 . Collector Warangal. 
23. Collector Adilabad . 
24, Collector Nalgonda. 
25 . Collector Nizamabad . 
26 . All Joint Collectors in the districts where posts exist. 
27. Special Deputy Collectors for Mines, Srikakulam and Nellore . 
(b ) the entries relating to the State of Bombay shall be omitted ; 
(c ) after the entries relating to the State of Madhya Pradesh , the follow 

ing entries shall be inserted , namely : 


Maharashtra 


( 4 ) 


( 1) Director of Geology and Mining. 
( 2 ) Collectors of the Districts . 
( 3 ) Deputy Director of Geology and Mining . 

Geologists . 
( 5 ) Assistant Geologists . 
( 6 ) Deputy Collectors. 

Assistant Collectors . 
( 8 ) Mamlatdars 
( 9 ) Tehsildars. 
( 10 ) Sub - divisional officers." ; 


(a ) after the entries relating to Delhi, the following entries shall be 

serted , namely : 


in 


1 


2 


Gujarat 


( 1 ) Director of Geology and Mining. 
( 2 ) Collectors of the Districts . 
13 ) Deputy Director of Geology and Mining. 
( 4 ) Geologists . 
( 5 ) Assistant Geologists . 
( 6 ) Deputy Collectors . 
( 7 ) Assistant Collectors . 
( 8 ) Mamlatdars . 
( 9 ) Tehsildars . 
( 10 ) Sub - division gl officers." ; 


Sec, 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/ PAUSA 17, 1882 


13 


( e ) in the entries relating to the State of Punjab , in column 2 , after entry 

6 , the following entry shall be inserted namely : - - 
" 7. Assistant District Industries Officers." 

[ No. MII-159 ( 15 ) / 58. ) 
H , S . SAHNI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH W 

New Delhi, the 27th December 1960 
G . S . R . 19 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
56 of the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957) , read with clauses in ) ond (r ) 
of sub -section (2 ) of that section , the Central Government hereby makes the fol 
lowing rules, namely : 


1. Short title and commencement. — ( 1) These Rules may be called the Delhi 
Development Authority (Preparation of Budget ) Rules , 1960 . 

(11 ) These shall come into force at once . 


2 . Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires 

( a ) Act means the Delhi Development Act , 1957 (61 of 1957), 
(b ) " Authority" means the Delhi Development Authority constituted under 

section 3 of the Act ; 
(c ) " Form " means the form appended to these rules ; 
( d ) " Government" means the Central Government ; 
( e) " Vice - Chairman " means the Vice-Chairman of the Delhi Development 

Authority . 
(f) " year " means the Anancial year beginning on the 1st of April and end 

ing on the 31st of March following. 


3 . Form of budget estimates . -- The budget in respect of the year next ensuing 
showing the estimated receipts and expenditure of the Authority shall be prepared 
in Form A , I., and submitted to Government by the 15th October each year. Such 
estimates shall be accompanied by the revised budget estimates for the current 
year. The budget shall be based on the account head given in Appendix to these 
rules. 


4 . In sufficient time before the date fixed for submission of the annual budget 
to the Government under rule 3 , the Accounts Section of the Authority shall Air 
up columns 2 to 7 , on both the receipt and expenditure sides , of Part II of Form 
A . I. and send copies of relevent portions to the Sections concerned including the 
Central Public Works Department, accompanied , where necessary , by a schedule 
of establishment in Form No, A . 2 columns 8 to 11 of Part II of A - I shall then be 
Alled up by the Sections concerned , separate notes giving full explanation of any 
variations shown in columns 10 and 11 being attached. 


Provided that 
( a ) provision proposed for new items of expenditure shall be dealt with fir 

accordance with rule 6 ; and 
( b ) the Central Public Works Department and the Works and Development 

Section or other Section concerned of the Authority shall Append to 
Form A . I. two schedules, one in Form A . 4 showing the works and 
schemes in progress and another in Form A . 5 showing the new 
works and schemes proposed to be taken in hand during the next 
year wherein minor works and schemes shall be shown in one lump 
sum supported by details as far as possible , the budget estimate of 
minor works and schemes is based on past experience ; but details 
shall be given wherever they are available . 


minor supported him or workesed to be taken 


5 . Submission of sectional estimates for the orders of the Vice - Chairman 
The Sections concerned shall return the Forms duly completed to the Accounts 
Section within such period as may be Axed by the vice- chairman , The Accounts 
Section shall submit them for the orders of the vice - chairman with , such comments 
As may be necessary . 


14 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7 , 1961 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 


( Part II 


- 


6 . Proposals for new items of expenditure, Proposals for new items of ex 
penditure, other than works and schemes, shall be submitted by the Sections con 
cerned in Form A . 3 . On receipt from the Sections they shall be submitted for 
the orders of the vice - chairman in the same way as the estimates in Form A . I , 
Part II. 


7 . Consolldaion of sectional estimates . The Accounts Section shall, thereafter 
nonsolidate the sectional estimates into one budget estimate in Form AI, all new 
items being shown separately in red ink in Part II . Similarly , the sectional sche 
dules in Forms A . 3 , A . 4 and A , 5 shall be consolidated and attached to these 
estimates together with the schedules in Form A . 2 and the notes giving brief 
explanation of the variation between , (1) the sanctioned and the revised estimates 
of the current year and ( ii ) the revised estimates of the current year and the 
budget estimates of the next year, 


8 . Submission of budget estimates to the Authority , — The budget estimates as 
compiled in accordance with rule 7 shall be placed befote the Authority by the 
5th of October cach year for approval. On receipt of the orders of the Authority , 
the Accounts Section shall prepare a final edition of the budget incorporating 
therein such modifcations as have been decided upon by the Authority . Four 
ropies of the Anal edition , with copies of the schedules , shall be submitted to 
Government by the 15th of October . 


9 . Estimate of Income. - The estimate of income shall be based upon : 


( 1 ) the actuals of the past three years in respect of recurring income from 

land or other sources with such modifications as may be necessary in 
the light of probable increases or decreases due to factors which can 

he foreseen ; and 
( 2 ) the programme of sales of land as far as such A programme can be 

drawn up . 


10 Estimate of contingent expenditure . - ( 1 ) For contingent expenditure , the esti 
mate shall he based upon the average actual expenditure of the past three yeary 
exclusive of any special items of expenditure that might have been incurred 
during thosr years Variations should , however. be made where justifed and 
should be adequately explained . 

( 2 ) The three years average mentioned in rules 9 and 10 shall be treated 
merely as a guide . 


11. Estimate of establishment expenditure and fixed recurring charges , — The 
estimate of expenditure on fixed establishment as well as fixed monthly recurring 
charges on account of rent, allowances , etc ., shall be made according to the actual 
sanctioned scale and shall provide for the gross sanctioned pay without deductions 
of any kind . To this shall be added a suitable provision for leave salary based 
on past experience with due regard to the intentions of the members of the staff 
in regard to leave as far as they can be ascertained . If experience Indicates that 
the total provision for Axed charges made on these lines is likely to prove exces 
slve, a suitable lump deduction should be made from the total, 


12 Estimate of expenditure on works and schemes . — Expenditure on works and 
Prhemes is by far the most important item in the budget estimates of the Autho 
Tlty . The amount of interest payable on loang will depend largely on the standard 
of estimating this expenditure and extreme rare should therefore be exercised in 
framing the revised as well as the budget estimates of expenditure to be incurred 
on works and schemes . Any tendency towards optimism on the part of technical 
officers should , as far as possible , he neutralized by applying lump cuts . It shall 
he the duty of the Accounts Section to suggest modifcations on the basis of past 
experience . 


13 . Confining of provision in budget estimates to actual requirements . All 
grants and appropriations lapse at the close of the year and unspent balances 
shall not he available for expenditure after the close of the year for the purpose 
for which the grant was sanctioned . In the case of works and schemes in pro 
gress it will usually be possible , if necessary , to increase the grants of a year to 
cover the grants which have lapsed at the end of the previous year, by such 
means as are open under these or their rules but special care should be taken to 
keep the budget estimates within the limits of actual requirements in order to 


Sec. 8(i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17 , 1882 


15 


save unnecessary indirect charges. Any tendency , however , towards the end of a 
year to utilize the grants shall be open to grave objection . 

14 . Amended original estimates . - - If during the course of a year it is found 
necessary to modify the budget estimates materially , a modified budget shall be 
prepared by the Authority , and submitted to Government. Any such budget Shail 
be treated as al original sanctioned estimate . If no modified budget is submitted , 
any necessary changes in the original estimates shall be made by re -appropria 
tlons , fresh allotments , etc ., as usual. 


15 . New or additional expenditure which cannot be met by re -appropriation . 
If the necess ty for some new or additional expenditure is fully established during 
the course of the year and the funds cannot be provided by re -appropriation , il 
will be open to the Authority to make fresh allotments or to increase the existing 
allotments , provided funds can be made available from opening balances , addi 
tional allotments by Government or from increases, anticipated or realised , in in 
come for which a supplementary estimate should be submitted . Such proposals 
shall be accompanied by a statement in Form A . 6 . In respect of new schemey 
involving fresh borrowings from Government, the expenditure should not be 
Incurred unless the scheme has been accepted broadly in principle by Government 
and provision of token amount made in the original budget . 


18 . Re-appropriations and emergent expenditoro . - No expenditure which is not 
covered by provision in the sanctioned hudget estimate , or which is likely to cause 
excess over the amount provided under any head , shall be incurred without provi 
slon being made by re - appropriation from some other head under which savings 
are ascertained or anticipated . Inevitable expenditure which cannot be met by 
re - appropriation or which can be met only by additional allotment, may be in 
curred with the previous approval of the Authority and in emergencies under the 
orders of the vice - chairman , a report of which shall be made to the Authority at 
Its next mecting . The application for re- appropriation or additional allotment of 
funds should , however , be made to the Authority as soon as possible explaining 
the circumstances in which the expenditure had to be incurred in anticipation of 
Its sanction . 

17 . Powers of the Authority to sanction re - appropriationg . — The Authority may 
sanction rc- appropriations of funds from one major head of account to another or 
within any major head ; 

Provided that without the prior approval of Government, no re - appropriation 
shall be made from Nazul to non -Nazul or vice versa and from Slum or Rehousing 
Accounts to General Development Account and vice versa . 

18 . Form of statement of re -appropriation , - Proposals for re -appropriation 
shall be accompanied by a statement in Form A . 7 . " The explanation of proposed 
increases and decreases should be amplifed . If necessary , while seeking sanction . 

19 . Effect of re -appropriation sanctioned by Goyernment. When a re-appro 
priation is sanctioned by the Government. the amount so transferred shall be 
treated as a loan which shall carry interest from the date of sanction to the re 
appropriation or the date of expenditure, whichever is earlier ( unless some other 
date is specifically prescribed in the sanction ) at the same rate as is charged on 
Government loans to the Authority and which shall be liquidated from the next 
year s receipts of the debtor account from loan or otherwise . 

20 . Inevitable payments . — The want of provision in the budget estimates or 
the temporary exhaustion of the budget allotment under any head shall not operate 
to prevent payment or refund of any amount due by the Authority or to prevent 
record of any payment under its proper head of account. All liabilities incurred 
shall be llquidated without delay and in no circumstances shall he linbility be 
allowed to stand over and above and be paid from the budget grant of the follow 
Ing year , nor shall payments of refunds be postponed to the last days of a month 
or the last month of a financial year . 

[ No . F . 6 - 12 / 60-LSG .) 
A . K . DAR , Under Secy, 


MINISTRY OF WORKS , HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 28th Dicember 1960 
G . S . R . 20 . — The following draft of certain rules further to amend the Ex 
plosives Rules, 1940 . which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise 


. 


. . 7, 1961 /PAUSA 17, 1882 


[ PART 1 


of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian Explosives Act, 1884 (4 of 1884) , 
is published as required by section 18 of the said Act, for the information of all 
persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said 
draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 31st January , 1961. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

1. These rules may be called the Explosives ( Amendment) Rules , 1960 . 
2 . In the Explosives Rules , 1940, in Schedule V ; in licence form N against 

the entry " In the State of Madras" , for the figures and word " 25 lbs" 
the Agures and word “ 10 lbs" shall be substituted 

(NO, S & PII-3 ( 46 )/ 80 .] 


M . N . KALE , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
(Departments of Communications and Civil Aviation ) 

( P . & T . Board ) 

New Delhi, the 27th December 1960 
G . S . R . 21, In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules regulating 
the recruitment through competitive examination to the cadre of Assistant 
Engineer (Workshops) , Class II , namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Assistant Engineer (Workshops ) , Class II, 
(Examination ) Rules , 1961. 


2 . For the purpose of these Rules 

( a ) " Government" means the Government of India . 
(h ) " The Commission " means the Union Public Service Commission . 
( c ) " The Service " means the cadre of Assistant Enginecr (Workshops ), 

class II, particulars in respect of which are given in Appendix IV . 
3 . A competitive examination for admission to the Service shall be held in 
India at such times and places as may be prescribed in the Notice issued by the 
Commission , Every such Notice will when possible announce the number of 
yacancies to be filled on the result of the examination . 

4 . If the examination held under this part of these Rules is a combined 
examination for the purpose of making appointments to more than one Service 
the following provisions shall apply : 
( a ) Any person may apply to be admitted as a candidate for appointment 

in all or any of these Services for which he is eligible . If he wishes 
to compete for appointment in more than one Service , he shall 
state in his application form which Services he wishes to compete 
for and the order of his preference for them , and in such case only 
one application form will be necessary and one payment of the 

fees referred to in rule 13 ( and Appendix III) will be sufficient. 
( b ) Government shall assign successful candidates to each Service or 

Department on a consideration of all circumstances including any 

personal preference expressed by thc candidate . 
5 . A candidate must apply to be admitted to the examination before such 
da e , in such manner , and in such form as the Commission may prescribe, 
6 . A candidate must be elther -- 

( a ) a citizen of India , or 
( b ) a subject of Sikkim , or 
( c ) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan with the 

intention of permanently settling in India, or 
( d ) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or former French possession 

in India . 


Sec . $ (i)] - THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7 , 1961 / PAUSA 17, 1882 


17 


NOTE. — The appointment of candidates in categories ( c ) and ( d ) above will 
be subject to the issue of certificates of eligibility in their favour by the Gov 
ernment of India . The certificate of cligibility in respect of candidates belong 
ing to category ( c ) will be valid only for a period of one year from the date of 
his appointment beyond which he would be retained in service only if he has 
become a citizen of India . Certificates of eligibility will not, however, be neces . 
sary in the case of candidates belonging to any one of the following categories : 
( 1 ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July , 

1948, and have ordinarily been residing in India since then . 
( 2 ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th July , 

1948 and have got themselves registered as citizens under Article 6 

of the Constitution . 
(3 ) Non - citizens of categories ( c ) and ( d ) above who entered service 

under the Government of India before the commencement of the 
constitution , viz ., 26th January , 1950 and who have continued in 
such service since then . Any such person who re - entered or may 
re - enter such service with break after the 26th January , 1950, will, 

however , require certificate of eligibility in the usual way . 
NOTA 2 . - A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary may 
be admitted to the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by 
Government. 


7. ( a ) No male candidate who has more than one wife living shall be eligi 
ble for appointment to any of the Services appointments to which are made on 
the results of this competitive examination unless the Government of India after 
being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so , exempt any male 
candidate from the operation of this rule . 

( b ) No female candidate who has married a person having already a wife 
living shall be eligible for appointment to any of the services appointments to 
which are made on the results of this competitive examination unless the Gov 
ernment of India after being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing 
80 , exempt any female candidate from the operation of this rule . 


8 . On the date prescribed by the Commission in their Notice of the cxamina 
tion issued under Rule 3 a candidate must have attained the age of 20 and must 
not have attained the age of 25 , provided that the upper age limit of 25 will be 
relaxable upto 30 in the casc of candidates who hold substantively permanent 
posts in the Posts and Telegraphs Department, or have continuously held for a 
period of not less than two years temporary posts of ( 1 ) Foremen , or ( 2 ) Assist 
ant Forcmen , or ( 3 ) Assistant Engineers (Workshops ) in the Posts and Telegraphs 
Workshops, such relaxation being limited to three examinations only . 

Departmental candidates must obtain previous permission of the Head of the 
Department to appear for the examination . 
NOTÆ . — The upper age limits prescribed above will be relaxable : 
(i ) Upto a maximum of five ycars if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Caste or a Scheduled Tribe. 
( ii ) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a bona fide displaced 

person from Pakistan ; 
This concession will not, however , be admissible to a candidate who has 

already appeared at five previous examinations or in the case of 
those employed in the Posts and Telegraphs Department at eight 

previous examinations. 
(iii ) Upto a maximum of eight years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Caste or a Scheduled Tribe and is also a bona Ade displaced per 

son from Pakistan . 
This concession will not , however , be admissible to a candidate who has 

already appeared at ten previous examinations or in the case of 
thosc employed in the Posts and Telegraphs Department at thirteen 

previous examinations, 
( iv ) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a resident of the 

former French Settlements which have . now become part of India 
and has been receiving his education through the medium of French . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 


[PART II 


( v ) Upto a maximum of 4 years if a candidate belongs to the Andaman 

and Nicobar Islands. 
N . B . - Candidates who are admitted to the examination under the age con 
cession mentioned in this rule will not be eligible for appointment if, after sub 
mitting the application , they resign from Service either before or after taking 
the examination . They will, however , continue to be eligible if they are 
retrenched from the service or post after submitting the applications. 


SAVE AS PROVIDED ABOVE THE AGE LIMITS PRESCRIBED CAN IN NO 

CASE BE RELAXED . 
9. A candidate must have 
( a ) obtained a degree in Engineering from a university incorporated by 

an Act of the Central or of a State Legislature in India ; or 
( b ) passed Sections A and B of the Associate Membership Examination 

of the Institution of Engineers ( India ) or have any other educa 
tional qualifications recognised by that institution , as exempting 

from passing these sections, or 
( c ) obtained an engineering degree of one of the universities mentioned 

in Appendix 1 under the conditions prescribed in that Appendix ; or 
( d ) passed the Honours Diploma Examination in Civil, Mechanical or 

Electrical Engineering of the Loughborough College , Leicestershire 
provided the candidate has passed the common preliminary examina 

tion or has been exempted therefrom ; or 
( e ) obtained the B .E . ( Tele -Communication ) degree awarded by Indian 

Universities ; or 
( f ) passed the Graduate Membership Examination of the Institution of 

Tele - communication Engineers ( India ) . 
NOTE 1 . - In exceptional cases the Commission may treat as a qualified candi 
date , a candidate , who, though he has not all or any of the qualifications pres 
cribed in this rule , has passed examinations conducted by other institutions of a 
standard which in the opinion of the Commission justifies his admission to the 
examination , 

NOTE 2 . - Candidates who have appeared at an examination the passing of 
which would render them eligible to appear at this exainination , but have not 
been informed of the result may apply for admission to the examination , Candi 
dates who intend to appear at such a qualifying examination may also apply , 
provided that the qualifying examination is completed before the commencement 
of this examination . Their applications will be accepted provisionally and they 
will be required to furnish proof of having passed the examination as soon as 
possible and in any case not later than two months after the commencement of 
the examination . 


10 . No candidate shall be admitted to the examination unless he holds a certif 
cate of admission from the Commission . 

The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candidato 
for admission to the examination shall be final. 


11. A candidate found guilty of impersonation or of submitting fabricated docu 
ments or documents , which have been tampered with or of making statements 
which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information or of using or 
attempting to use unfair means in the examination hall or otherwise resorting 
to any other irregular or improper means for obtaining admission to the examina 
tion may , in addition to redering himself llable to a criminal prosecution be 
debarred either permanently or for a specified period 
( a ) by the Commission from admission to any examination or appearance 

at any interview held by the Commission for selection of candidates ; 

and 
( b ) by the Central Government from employment under the Government. 


12 . No recommendations except those required in the application form shall be 
taken into consideration , Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain sup 
port for his candidature by other means may disqualify him for admission . 


SEC, 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 


19 


13 . Candidates must pay such examination fces as Government may prescribe 
( See Appendix III ) . No claim for a refund of any of those fees will be entertain 
ed nor can they be held in reserve for any other examination or selection . 


14 . Examinations under these Rules shall be conducted by the Commission in 
the manner prescribed in the regulations which form Appendix II to these Rules . 


15 , ( a ) After every examination the Commission shall make a list of the candi 
dates in order of their merit as disclosed by the aggregate marks finally awarded 
to each candidate and in that order so many candidates up to the number of 
vacancies announced under rulc 3 above, as are found by the Commission in their 
discretion to be qualified by the examination and are considered by Government 
or the appointing authority , as the case may be, to be suitable in all other respecte , 
shall be appointed . 


(b ) Appointments to vacancies to be Alled by members of a particular com 
munity or communities shall be made by Government or the appoilting authority 
as the case may be , in the order of merit of the candidates belonging to the parti. 
cular community or communities provided they have qualified in the examination 
and are in all respects suitable for employment in the Service . 

( c ) Success in the examination confers no right to appointment, unless Govern 
ment are satisfied , after such enquiry as may be considered necessary that the 
candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the public Service . 

NOTE , — The form and manner of communication of the result of the examina 
tion to individual candidates shall be decided by the Commission in their discretion . 


16 . A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health , and free from any 
physical defect likely to interfere with thc discharge of his or her duties as an 
officer of the Service. A candidate who ( after such physical examination AS 
Government or the appointing authority , as the case may be ; may prescribe) is 
found not to satisfy those requirements will not be appointed . Only candidates 
who are likely to be considered for appointment will be physically examined . 

In order to prevent disappointment candidates are advised to have themselves 
examined by a Government Medical Officer of the standing of a Civil Surgeon 
before applying for admission to the examination . Particulars of the nature of 
the physical test to which candidates will be subjected before appointment and of 
the standards required can be had from the Commission 


17 . ( a ) Appointments shall be made on probation for a period of two years . 

( b ) If, in the opinion of Government, the work or conduct of an officer on 
" Probation is unsatisfactory , or shows that he is unlikely to become efficient, Gov 
ernment may discharge him forthwith , 

(c ) On the conclusion of his period of probation and on passing the prescribed 
test at the end of practical training prescribed by the competent authority , Govern 
ment may confirm the officer in his appointment or if his work or conduct has in 
the opinion of Government been unsatisfactory , Government may either discharge 
him from the Service or may extend his period of probation for such further 
period as Government may think fit. The candidate will not ordinarily be permit 
ted to cross the stage of pay of Rs. 475 or be considered for further promotion 
unless he passes the professional examination prescribed by the Department. 

( d ) If no action is taken by Government under sub - rule (b ) or ( C ) of this rule , 
the period after the prescribed period of probation shall be treated as an engage 
ment from month to month , terminable on either side, on the expiration of one 
calendar month s notice in writing . 

( e ) If the power to make appointments in the Service is delegated by Govern 
ment to any officer or authority , that oficer or authority may exercise any of the 
powers of Government under this rule . 


18 . Probationers will also be required to pass a test in Hindi before confirmation . 


APPENDIX I 
1.ist of University degrees which will be recogaig d for admission to the examina 

tion [ vide Rules 9 ( e ) ] . 
Aberdeen . - B .Sc . Engineering (Honours or Ordinary degrees ). 


20 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 


[PART II 


Cambridge. - Ordinary B . A , degree in engineering provided the graduate has 
passed in the principal subjects, Engineering I, Engineering II and Engineering III. 

Durham . - B .Sc. in Marine Engineering. 
Glasgou . - B .Sc . in Naval Architecture (Honours or Ordinary degree ). 

NOTT . - The above degrees will be accepted only if taken after three years 
study and the passing of the regular examinations in the several Universities . The 
conditions as to three years study will not, however, apply to Indians who; having 
taken an Indian degree , which exempts them from part of the University course 
shall have taken one of the above degrees in less than three years in accordance 
with the regulations of the University concerned . 


APPENDIX II 
Standard and syllabus of the Examination (vide Rule 41) 


Subjects 


Maximum Marks 


( a ) Compulsory 

1. English (Including Essay & precis writing) 
2 . General knowledge 
3 . Applied Mechanics (including Strength of Materials ) 
4. Theory of Machines and Machine design 
5 . Prime Movers 
6 . Personality Test 


100 
100 
200 
200 
200 
300 


TOTAL 


1, 100 


(b ) Optional - - ( any two of the following subjects ) 

1. Hydraulics and Hydraulic Machines 
2. Electrical Engineering 
3. Metallurgy 
4 . Workshop Technology 
5 . Physics (Including Electricity & Magnetism ) 
6 . Workshop Organisation & Management 


100 
100 
100 


100 


100 


100 


NOTE 1. - All papers must be answered in English . 

NOTE 2 . - Candidates must write the papers in their own hand . In no circum 
stances will they be allowed the help of a scribe to write answers for them . 

2 . The standard and syllabus of the examination will be such as the Commig 
Blon shall prescribe, 

3 . The Commission have discretion to fix qualſfying marks in any or all the 
subjects at the examination , 


4 . The Commission will summon at their discretion only those candidates whom 
they consider suitable for Interview for the Personality Test. 

5 . Special attention will be paid in the Personality Test to assessing the 

minor capacity for leadership , initiative and intellectual curiosity , tact and 
Other social gūglitteg . mental and physical energy, powers of practical application : 
and Integrity of character. 

6 . From the marks aseigned to candidates in each subject such deduction will 
be made as the Commission may consider necessary in order to secure that no 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge, 

7 . Deductions up to 5 per cent of the maximum marks for the writton subjects 
will be made for illegible handwriting . 

8 . Credit will be given for good English - - orderly , effective and exact expression 
and due economy of words - in all subjects of the examination . 


Src , 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 /PAUSA 17, 1882 


21 


- 


APPENDIX III 

FEES 

(vidę Rule 13) 
Candidates seeking admission to the examination must pay the following fees 
(a ) To the Commission : 

(1) Re, 1 when asking for application form and connected documents. 
This amount should he paid to the Commission by Money Order , Local 

candidates, however , may pay cash at the counter . The Commission 

will not accept payment made otherwise . 
( ii ) Rs. 81 :50 ( Rs. 19:62 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled 

Castes and Scheduled Tribes ) with the completed application form . 
This amount should be paid by means of Treasury Receipt or CROSSED 

Indian Postal Orders payable to Secrctary, Union Public Service 
Commission , The Commission will not accept payment made 

otherwisc . 
( b ) To the Medical Board : 

Rs. 16 before examination by a Medical Board , if selected for appointment. 
This amount should be paid in cash to the Medical Board concerned at the 

time of the Medical examination . 
2 . Once an application has been considered by the Commission and the decision 
communicated to the candidate no claim from the candidate for a refund of the 
fcc paid by him to the Commission will be entertained nor can this fee be held 
in reserve for any other examination or sclection . If however , a candidate is 
not admitted to the examination by the Commission , a refund of Rs. 75 ( Rs. 18 . 75 
in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes ) 
will be made to him , 

3 . The Commission may at their discretion remit the prescribed fee where 
thcy are satisfied that the applicant is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan 
and is not in a position to pay the prescribed fcc. " The fee of Re. 1 however, 
must be paid even by a displaced person when asking the Commission for form 
and this amount will be refundable to him , if on receipt of his application , his 
claim to be a displaced person is accepted by the Commission and his fce is 
rcmitted . 

APPENDIX IV 
General conditions of service prescribed for candidates recruited to the cadre of 

Assistant Engineer (Workshops ) , Class II, 
1 . Fifty per cent of the vacancies in the Service will be filled by candidates 
recruited through Competitive Examination . 


2 . Candidates to be recruited through Competitive Examination will be 
appointed as probationers for a period of two years during which they will under 
go practical training in accordance with the programme of training that may be 
prcscribed from time to time. Those who are favourably reported upon at the 
end of two years and have passed any departmental examination or examinations, 
that may be prescribed , will be appointed to working posts in the Service . 


3 . Omcers recruited under these rules shall be eligible for leave, increment 
and pension in accordance with the rules for the time being in force applicable 
to offlcers of the Central Government. They will also be eligible to join the 
General Provident Fund in accordance with the rules regulating that Fund . 


4 . These ofllcers shall be liable for transfer anywhere in India . 


5 . The inter se seniority of officers appointed through Competitive cxamina 
tion will ordinarily be determined by their order of merit, in the competitive 
examination . Government of India , however , reserve the right of fixing the 
seniority at their discretion in individual cases . 


6 . The following are the rates of pay admissible to officers appointed in India 
to the cadre of Assistant Engineer (Workshops ) Class II: 

Rs. 350 - 25 - 500 _ 30 _ 590 - E . B . - 30 – 800 — E .B . - 30 — 830 — 35 — 900 . 


22 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/ PAUSA 17, 1882 


[PART II 


7. Officers of the Service are eligible for promotion to posts in the General 
Central Service Class I (Workshops ) under the rules . 

8 . These conditions of service are subject to revision according to the require 
ments of service. Candidates will not be entitled to any compensation if they 
are adversely affected by any changes in the conditions of service which may be 
introduced later on . 

[No. 2 - 12 /60, W . K .I 
N . CHIDAMBARAM , 
Director Postal Technical. 


( Department of Transport ) 

( Transport Wing ) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 30th December, 1960 
G . S . R . 22 .- - In th - Port of Cochin ( Petroleum ) Rules 1960 published with 
the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Transport and 
Communications ( Department of Transport - Transport Wing ) No. G . S . R . 1241 
dated the 13th October , 1960, the following corrections shall be made, namely : 
( 1 ) The words " the strength of the tide" appearing in line 3 , rule 4 of 

Section I, shall be substituted by the words " strength of ebb tide " . 
( 2 ) The words “ book to the ships tanks" appearing in line 3 , rule 13 of 

Section II, shall be substituted by the words " back to the ship s 

tank " , 
( 3 ) The word " continued " appearing in line 3 , rule 17 of Section II, shall 

be substituted by the word " discontinued " . 
( 4 ) The word " cxcmpt" appearing in line 2, rule 20 of Section II , shall be 

substituted by the word " except" . 
(5 ) The word " Loading " appearing in the marginal heading of rule 24 of 

Section III shall be substiluted by the word “ Landing " . 
(6 ) The word " fresh " appearing in line 4 of rule 34 (8 ) of Section III shall 

be substituted by the word " from " . 
(7 ) The word " aangerous" appearing in the heading under Annexure II 
shall be substituted by the word " dangerous" . 

(No. 6B - PG (50 ) / 58 . ) 
M , V , NILAKANTA AYYAR, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 28th December 1960 
G . S .R . 23. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309 of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules to 
further amend the National Archives of India (Class ILI posts ) Recruitment 
Rules, 1959, published with the notification of the Government of India in the - 
Ministry of Education No . G . S . R . 1148 , dated the 17th October , 1959, namely : - 


1 . These rules may be called the National Archives of India (Class III posts ) 
Recruitment Amendment Rules , 1960 . 

2 . In the Schedule to the National Archives of India ( Class III posts ) Recruit 
ment Rules , 1959 , 

against serial No. 7, 
(i) the existing entries under column 6 shall be omitted , 


Sec. 8 (i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/ PAUSA 17 , 1882 

= - 
( ii ) for the existing cntry under column 7, the following entry shall be 

substituted , namely : 
" Selection 25 per cent on the basis of a competitive examination limited to 

Lower Division Clerks" , 
( iii) under column 8 , the entry " 75 per cent" shall be inserted , 
( iv ) the existing entries under column 11 shall be omitted , 
( v ) the existing entrics under column 13 shall be omitted , 
( vi) immediately after the existing entries under column 14 , the words " for 

posts to be Alled by seniority - cum - fitness only ; for posts to be Alied 
by limited competition , Lower Division Clerks ( including Hindi 
Typists ) in accordance with specific rules as may be prescribed for 
the purpose " shall be inserted . 

[No, F . 4 / 13 / 60 - A . 10 . ) 
D . N . TIWARI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 31st December 1960 
G . S . R . 24 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
recruitment of persons to General Central Service Class II posts in the Education 
Department of the Laccadive , Minicoy and Amindivi Islands Administration , 
namely 

1. Short title . These rules may be called the Laccadive , Minicoy and Amindivi 
Islands Education Department ( Class II posts ) Recruitment Rules, 1960 . 

2 . Application . These rules shall apply for recruitment to the post specified in 
column 1 of the Schedule to these rules . 

3. Number , classification and scale of pay , — The number of posts , classification 
of the said posts and the scales of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in 
columns 2 to 4 of the said Schedule . 

4 . Method of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications. The method of 
recruitment, age limit, qualifcations and other matters connected therewith shall 
be as specifled in columns 5 to 13 of the Schedule aforesaid : 
Provided that the maximum age limit specified in the Schedule in respect 

of direct recruitment may be relaxed in the case of candidates belong 
ing to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other special cate 
gories in accordance with the orders issued by the Central Government 

from time to time. 
5 . Disqualification . - - No male candidate who has more than one wife living and 
no female candidate , who has married a person having alrcady a wife living, shall 
be eligible for appointment, unless the Central Government, after having been 
satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempts any such candidate 
from the operation of this rule . 


24 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 / PAUSA 17, 1882 


[PART II 


Recruitment Rules for the post of Education Officer L . M . and A . Islands 


Name of 

post 


No. of 
ponts 


Classification 


Scale of Pay Whether 

selection 
post or 

non 
selection 

post 


Age limit Educational and other 
for direct qualifications re 
recruits quired for direct re 

cruits 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


One 


Education 
Officer 
L . M , & A . 
Iglands, 


Rs. 300 — 25 — 
500 , 


Selection 


G . C . S . 
Cluss IT 
Gazeted 
(Non 
Ministerial). 


Below 40 Essential : 

years (i ) Master s or cqui 
(Rclaxable valent Honours 
for Govt. degree of a recog 
Servants) nised University , 


( 17 ) Degree or Dip 

loma in Education 
of a recognised 
University / Insti 
tution . 


(iii) About 5 years 

expericuce of teach 
ing in a recognised 
educational Insti 
tution of which 
about 3 years should 
be in an adminis 

trative capacity . 
(iv ) Knowledge of 

Malayalam , Quali 
fications relaxable 
at Commission s 
discretion in the 
case of candidates 
otherwise well 
qualified . 


Desirable : 
(1) About 3 years ex 
perience as an 
Inspecting Officer 
in Education Deptt. 
of a Central or State 
Govt. 
( 11) Experience of 

Social Work 
( 112) Knowledge of 

Hindi. 


Suc. 8 (i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 /PAUSA 17, 1882 


in the Ministry of Eluczion 


Whether Period 

age ard of 
educational proba- 
qualifica - tion if 

tions any 
Prescribed 
for the 
dircct 

Tecruits 
will apply 

in the 

case of 
Promotees 


Method of recruit - In case of rectt, by pro - If a DPC Circumstances 
ment whether by di- motion / transfer , grades exists , what in which U . P . 
rect recruitmert or from which promotion is its com - S . C . is to be 
transfer and percent 

to be made position , consulted in 
age of the Vacancies 

making rc 
to be filled by various 

cruitment 
methods 


10 


II 


I2 


13 


No 


Two 
years . 


Class II 
D . P . C . 


As required 
under the 
rules. 


By promotion failing Proinotion : 
which by transfer ! Head Master G . H . S . 
deputation & failing ( L . M . A .) I (Rs. 300 
both by direct re - 400 ) Class III ( N . G .) 
cruitment. 

Transfer deputation : 
Officer of the Education 

Deptt. holding ana 
logous posts under 
the Central or State 
Governments . 


[No, F . 34 -34 / 59-SE .2 .? 

R . K . KAPUR , 
Deputy Educational Adviser 


26 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 


[PART II 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculfuro ) 

New Delhi, the 28th December 1960 
G . S .R . 25.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
method of recruitment to certain Class I and II posts in the Directorate of Economics 
& Statistics in the Department of Agriculture of the Ministry of Food & Agricul 
ture, namely : 

1. Short title . - These rules may be called the Directorate of Economics and 
Statistics ( certain Class I and II posts ) Recruitment Rules , 1960. 

2 . Application . These rules shall apply for recruitment to the posts specifed in 
column 1 of the Schedule to these rules . 

3 . Number, Classification and scale of pay. - The number of posts, their classif 
cation and the scale of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in columns 2 to 4 
of the said Schedule . 

4 . Method of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications. The method of 
recruitment, age limit, qualifications and other matters connected therewith shall be 
as specified in Columns 5 to 13 of the Schedule aforesaid , 


SCHEDULE 
Recruiment Rules for the various Class I and Class 11 posts in the Directorate of Economics and Statistics 

Miristry of Food and Agriculture 


Sec.3(1)] 


7-991E 


Age 
limit 


Name of post 

Clessis Soale Whether 
Num - fication of selection 
ber 

Post or 

non 
posts 

seles - 
tion 


Education & other 
qualifications required 

for direct recruits 


for 
direct 
recruits 


of 


Whether 

Method of 
age and 

rectt . whether 
Educa 

by direct In case of If a 
tional 

rectt . or recruitment by DPC 
qualifi 

by promotion promotion exists 
cations Period of transfer transfer , what is 
prescribed of & percentage grades from its 

for the proba- of the which composi - 
direct tion vacancies to promotion tion 
recruits if be filled by to be made 

will apy various me 
apply in 

thods 
the case 
af pro 
motees 


Circumy. 
tances 
in wbich 
U . P .S . C . 
is to be 
consulted 
in making 
recruitment 


Post 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


10 


11 


12 


13 


Rs. 


I 


I. Deputy 

Director 
(Mechani 
cal Tabula 
tiom ). 


General 700 — 40 Not 
Central -- 1100 appli 
Service , - 50 /2 - cable . 
Class I . 1250 . 


years 


Not appli- As requir 
cable . ed under 

the rules . 


Below 45 Essentiel : 

Not appli- Two Direct recruit - Not appli - 
Master s degree cable . years ment. 

cable . 
Relaxable in Statistics /Mathe 
for 

matics or in Eco 
Govern Domics (with Sta 

ment tistos ) of a recog 
servaats ). nised University . 

( ) About 5 years 

pracctical exprience 
of statistical Fort 
in a responsible 
capacity in plan 
ning and executing 
work on mechanical 
tabulation , 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


Rs. 


(iii) Knowledge of 

PUNCHED CARD 
MACHINES AND 

their components . 
Qualifictions relaxable 

at Commission s 
discretion in the 
case of candidates 
otherwise well qua 

lified . 
Desirable - 
) Advanced training 
in punch card me 
chanical tabulation 
technique and 
methodology of 
Hollerith and /or 
Powers - Samas equip 

ment. 
(it) Practical expe 

rience of mechanical 
tabulation of large 
scale economic sur 

veys . 
( iii) Knowledge of 
modern efficiency 
techniques, e. g ., 
time and motion 
studies, quality 
control and me 
thods of visual dis 

play. 
Essential : 
( ) Master s degree No . 

in Economics/or 
Agricultural Econo 
mics of a recognis 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


2 . Editor 


G . C . S . 700M 40 Selec - 
Class I - - I100 - tion , 

50 / 2 
1250 . 


Below 45 

years 
( relaxable 

for 
Govt . 


Two By promotion or Promotion : - 
years direct recruit - Assistant 

ment, the mode Editors 
of recruitment with five 


Class I FAs requir 
D . P . C . ed under 

the rules . 


[PARTII 


Sec,8(i)] 


C , Assistant 


I 


servant ) . ed University , or 

to be decided years 
an equivalent quali 

On each OC - service in 
fication 

casion in con - the grade . 
( ) About 5 years 

sultation with 
experience of edi 

the Commis 

sion 
torial and /or pub 

licity work 
(* ) Knowledge of 
agricultural econo 

mics . 
Qualifications relas 

able at Commis 
sion s discretion 
in the case of can 
didates otherwise 

well qualified , 
Desirable - 
Experience of pro 

duction printing 
aspects of publi 

cation work 
G .CS . 350 — 25 Not Below 35 Essential: 
Class II - 500 – Appli - years 
Non - 30 - 590 cable , ( celaxable D Master s degree Not Two Direct recruit - Not appli- Not appli - As requi 
Minis - -- EB for Go in Economics /or Applicable , years ment , 

cable . 

cable . 

Ted 
vernment Agricultural Eco 

under 
servants ). nomics of a co 

the rules 
goised University 
or an equivalent 

qualification . 
a ) About 2 years 

experience of edi 
torial and / or 
publicity work , 
and /or experience 
of writing on wo 

nomic problems. 
Qualifications relas 

able at Commis 
sion s discretion in 
the case of candi 
dates otherwise 
Well qualified , 


Editor. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


- 


30 


--- 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


Rs. 


Desirable : 
(1) Knowledge of Ag 

ricultural Economics. 
(* ) Experience of pro 

duction printing 
aspects of publica 
tion work , 


NOTE : - * * The scales of pay indicated in column 4 of this Schedule are those indicated in Section II , Sub - Section 4 ofthe Schedule to the 

Ministry of Finance Notification No. S . O . 2641 dated the 26th October 1960 containing the revised scales of pay for these posts. 


· No. F . 9- 107158- C ( E ) ] 
N . RANGANATHAN , Under Secy . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


PARTII 


SFC, 8 (i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7 , 1961 / PAUSA 17, 1882 


(Department of Food ) 

ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 30th December 1960 


G . S . R 26 - In cxercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential Commoditics 
Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following Order , namely : 

1. This Order may be called the Foodgrains Movements (Conversion to Metric Weights ) 
Order , 1961. 

2 . The Ordery specified in the first column of the annexed Table are hereby amended to the 
extent and in the manner specified in the second column thereof. 


TABLE 


Order 


Nature of amendments 


( 2) 


I. Calcutta Wheat (Movement Control) Order, 1 

1956 ; S . R . O . 2033 ; 5 - 9 - 1956 , 
2 . Bombay Wheat (Movement Control) Order , 
1956 ; S . R . O . 2098 ; 17 - 9 - 1956 . 

In the proviso to clause 3 , for " five scers " , 

substitute " five kilograms" . 
3 . Bombay Rice (Export Control) Order, 1957 ; 

S . R .O . 1852; 3 - 6 - 1957. 
4 . Inter-ZonalWheat Movement ControlOrder, In the first proviso to clause 3 , for “ five seers" 
1957 ; S . R . O . 1986 ; 13 -6 - 1957 , 

substitutc " five kilogramas" . 
5 . Rice (Southern Zone)Movement Control Or- (i) In clausc 3 , – 
der, 1957 ; S . R . O . 2258 - A ; 9 - 7 - 1957 . 

(a) in the first proviso , for " five secrs " , 

substiute " five kilograms" ; 
(6 ) in the second proviso , for " ten 

maunds" , substitute " fous quintals " , 
(ii) In the proviso to claulge 3A , for " 20 scere" 

and " sscers" , substitute " twenty kilo 
grams" and " five kilograms" respec 

tively , 
6 . Bihar Foodgrains (Movinent Control) Order, In thc proviso to clause 3 as well as in the 
1957 ; S . R . O . 4076 ; 20 - 12 - 1957 . 

provigu to clause 3A , for " five seers " , subg 
titute " five kilograms" . 


7 . Madhya Pradesh Rice (Movement Control) 

Order, 1957; S . R . O . 4077 ; 20 - 12 - 1957 . 


8 . Whcat (South Zone Export Control) Order, 

1958 ; G . S . R . 703 ; 16 - 8 - 1958 . 


In the proviso to clausc 3, for " five seers " , 

gubstitute " five kilograms" . 


9 . Uttar Pradesh Foodgrains (Movement Con 

trol) Order, 1958 ; G . S . R . 758 ; 29- 8 - 1958 . 


Io . Rice (Northern Zonel ) Movement Control 

Order , 1958 ; G . S . R . 818 - A ; 13 - 9 - 1958 . . 


(i) In the proviso to clause 3 , for " five acers " , 

substitute " five kilograms" ; 
( ii ) In the proviso to cluuse 3A , for " 20 scers" 

and " 5 scers " , substilute " twenty kilo 
grams" and " five kilograms” respec 

tively. 
In the proviso ro clausc 3 , for " five seers" , 

pubstitute " five kilograms" . 
In clause 3B , for " five secrs " , substitute " five 

kilogrums" . 


II. West Bengal Wheat (Export Control) Order, 

1958 ; G . S . R . 1050 ; I - II - 1958 . 
. 12 . Uttar Pradesh Paddy and Rice (Restriction on 

Movement) Order , 1958 ; G . S . R . 1233 ; 24 - 12 - 
1958 . 


32 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7 , 1961 / PAUSA 17 , 1882 


[Part 1] 


13 . Punjab Paddy (Export Control) Order, 1959 ; 

G . S . R . 23 ; 3 - 1 - 1959 . 
14 . Uttar Pradesh Foodgrains (Restrictions on 

Border Movement) Order, 1959 ; G . S . R . 292 ; 

10 - 3 - 1959 . 
15. Rajasthan Foodgrains (Restrictions on Border 

Movement) Order , 1959 ; G . S . R . 432 ; 9 - 4 - 59 . 


In the proviso to clause 3 , for " fivc seers" , 

substitute " five kilograms” . 
In the proviso to clause 3 , for " five maunds " 

and " five scera " , substitute " two quintals " 
and " five kilograms" respectively . 
In clause 5, for " 20 scers " and " 5 seers " , 

substitute twenty kilograms" and " five 
kilograma" respectively. 
In the proviso to clause 3 , for " 10 mgundo" 

and " 5 seers" , substitute " four quintals" 
and " five kilograms" respectively . 


16 . Madhya Pradesh Foodgrains (Restrictions on 

BorderMovement) Order, 1959 ; G . S . R . 450 ; 

14 - 4 - 1959 
17 . Delhi (Restriction on Import of Wheat Atta ) 

Order, 1959 ; G .S . R . 693 ; 15 - 6 - 1959 . 


18. Tripura Foodgrains Moveinent Control 

(No. 2 ) Order, 1959 ; G . S . R . 805; 11 -7 - 1959. 


In the proviso to clause 3 , for " five seers" , 

substitute " five kilograms" . 


19. Rice (Eastern Zone)Movement Control Or 

der , 1959 ; G . S . R . 1401 ; 21 - 12 - 1959 . 


(1) In clause 3, – 
(a ) in the first proviso , for " five seers " , 

substitute " five kilograms" ; 
(b) in the second proviso , for " ten maunde" , 

substitute " four quintals" ; 
(ii) In the proviso 10 clause 4 , for " forty . 

seers " and " five scero " , substitute “ forty 
kilogramy" and " five kilograms" respec 

tively , 
In the proviso to clause 3, for " five secre " , 

substitute " five kilograms” . 
In clause 3, 
(i) in the first proviso for " five seers" , 

substitute " five kilograms" ; 
( i ) in the second proviso , forten maunds " , 

substitute " four quintals " . 


20 . Calcutta Rice (Movement Control) Order, 

1959 ; G .S .R . 1402 ; 21- 12 - 1959 . 
21 . Rajasthan (Rice Import Restriction ) Order, 

1960 ; G .S .R , 696 ; 17 - 6 - 1960 . 


[No. 204 (GENL ) (8 )/478 /60 -PY. II . 
G .S . R . 27. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following Order to amend the Rice (Madhya Pradesh ) Second Price Control Order . 
1958 , namely : - - 

1. This Order may be called the Rice (Madhya Pradesh ) Second Price Control 
( Amendment) Order, 1961. 

2 . In the Table below Schedule IV to the Rice (Madhya Pradesh ) Second Price 
Control Order , 1958 , 
(a ) under the heading I Par-Bolled Milled Rice , for Items 1 to 6 in column 

1 and the entries relating therсto in columns 2 to 5 , the following 
Items and entries shall be substituted , namely : - - 


Free tolerance limit (per cent ) 


Sec,3(1)] 


“ Constituents of admixtures or 

impurities 


Rates at which cuts shall be imposed for 

admixtures or impurities acceding the 
tolerance limits spacified in columns (2 ) 
to ( 7 ) for coarse , motiu II , Medium 
I, fino III , fine II and fine I 


Course 


Medium 


Medium 


Fine III 


Fine II 


Fine I 


II 


+ 


| 


I. PAR - BOILED MILLED RICE 
1 Brokers . . . . 15 


14 


10 


8 


6 


5 


Course : 
Over the tolerance limit and up to 30 % 

Re 0 . 04 per maund for every 1 % . 
Over 30 % Re. 0 .08 per maund for 

every 1 , 
Mecium Il : 
Over the tolerance fimit and up to 20 % 

Re 0 .05 per maund for every 1 % . 
Over 20 % Re. 0 . 08 per maund for every 

1 % . 
Medium I : 
Over the tolerance limit and up to 19 % 

Re, 0 . 06 per maand for every 1 % 
Over 19 % Re, 0 . 09 per maand for 

every 1 % . 
Fmes II, II and I : 
Over tolerance limit Re. 0 . 09 per meund 

for Guy 1 % 
Over toleruce limit Re, O 02 per maund 

for every 1 % 
Over tolerance limit at full value of the 

rice equivalent to foreign matter . 
Over tolerance limit Re. 0 . 03 per maund 

for every 1 % 
Medina II & I : 
Over tolerance limit Re. O 02 per mund 

for every 1 % . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


2 


Admixture of red grains . 


, 


I 


3 Foreign matter 


. 


. 


. 


1. 25 


0 . 75 


0. 75 


0 . 5 


0 . 5 


0 . 5 


2 


0 . 5 


4 Discoloured , damaged and chalky 

gmins. 
Mixture of lower grades . . . 


EE 


34 


Fire III : 
Over 2 % and up to 6 % Re. 0 .04 per 

maund for every 1 % . 
Over 6 % Re. 0 . 09 per maand for 

every 1 % . 
Pine II : 
Over 2 % and up to 5 % Re. 0 .04 per 

maand for every Io. 
Over 5 % Re, 0 . 09 per maund for 

every 1 % 
Fine I : 

Over 2 % and up to 4 % Re. 0 -04 per 

maud for every 1 % . 
Over 4 % Re. 0 . 09 per maund for 

every 1 % . 
6 Moisture content . . . 15 15 15 15 15 15 Over tolerance limit at full value of the rice 

equivalent to moisture content. 
7 Dehusked grains . . . 

Over tolerance limit Re. 0 . 02 per mand 

for every 1 % . " ; 
(b ) under the heading III Raw Rice", after item 6 and the entries relating thereto, the following item and entries shall be inserted , 

namely 

4 Over tolerance limit Re. 0 . 02 per maund 

for every 1 % . " 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


" Dehusked grains 


. 


. 


5 


5 


5 


No, 201(MP) 6 ) /479 /60- PY . II) 


(PartII 


Sec , 8 (i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7 , 1961 / PAUSA 17 , 1882 


35 


New Delhi, the 31st December 1960 
G . S .R . 28 . In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following Order to amend the Rice (Punjab ) Second Price Control Order , 
1960 , namely : 


1. This Order may be called the Rice (Punjab ) second Price Control (Amend 
ment) Order, 1961 . 
2 . In the Schedule to the Rice ( Punjab ) Second Price Control Order, 1960 , 
(1) in Apeendix I and Appendix II, after note (3 ), the following note shall 

be inserted , namely : 
" (4 ) In case the admixture of Interior varieties mentioned in 2 (b ) 18 

more than 6 per cent and the incidence of red grains mentioned 
In Item 4 18 below 6 per cent such excess admixture of Inferior 
varieties may be adjusted against and to the extent of the short 
fall of red grains from 6 per cent and the excess admixture 80 
adjusted may be deemed to be red grains subject to a cut where 

applicable at quarter value specified against item 4 above." ; 
( li ) in Appendix III (a ) and Appendix III (b ), after note ( 2), the following 

note shall be inserted , namely : 
“ ( 3 ) In case the admixture of inferior varieties mentioned in item 1 Is 

over 10 per cent and the incidence of red grains mentioned in 
Item 3 is below 6 per cent such excess admixture of interior varie 
ties may be adjusted against and to the extent of the shortfall of 
red grains from 6 per cent, and the excess admixture bo adjusted 
may be deemed to be red grains subject to a cut where applicable 
at quarter value specified against item 3 above." 

[No. 201 ( PB ) ( 7) / 480 / 60 -PY .II.] 


G . 8 . R . 29. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following Order to amend the Madhya Pradesh Foodgrains (Restrictions on 
Border Movement) Order , 1959 , namely : 


1. This Order may be called the Madhya Pradesh Foodgralas (Restrictions on 
Border Movement) (Amendment) Order, 1981. 


2 . In the proviso to clause 3 of the Madhya Pradesh Food grains (Restrictions 
on Border Movement) Order . 1959, after item ( vl), the following item shall be 
Ingerted , namely : 
" (vll ) under and in accordance with the Madhya Pradesh Foodgrains (Ex 
port Licence ) Order . 1960 ." 

[ No. 204 (WFZ )(2)/ 481/ 80-PY .II.] 

9. N . BHALLA , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

Nero Delhi, the 28th December 1960 
G . S . R . 30 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
recruitment and some- other conditions of service of certain persons appointed to 
carry out measures Ananced from the Coal Mines Labour Housing and General 
Welfare Fund constituted under section of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund 
Act, 1947 ( 32 of 1947) , namely : 


1 . Short title and commencement. - ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Coal 
Mines Labour Housing and General Welfare Fund (Recruitment to Class III and 
Class IV posts) Rules, 1960 . 

(2 ) They shall come into force at once . 


36 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 / PAUSA 17 , 1882 


[PART II 


2 . Recruitment. The classification , method of recruitment and certain other 
matters relating to the posts specified in column 2 of the Schedule to these rules 
shall be as specified in other relevant columns thereof . 

3. Disqualification . No person who has more than one wife living or marrying 
a person having a wife living shall be eligible for appointment to any post referred 
to in rule 2 : 

Provided that the Central Government may, in any exceptional case, and for 
reasons to be recorded in writing, exempt any person from the operation of this 
rule . 


THE SCHEDULE 


SEC,3(i)] 


Sl. 
No . 


Name of the 

Post 


No . of Its Classifi - 
Posts cation 


Scale of Pay 

in Rs. 


Whether 

a seles 
tion post 
OT NON - 
selection 

post 


Age 

limit 
for di . 
rectrec 
ruit 
ment 


Education and 
bther qualifica - 

tion 


whether 
age and 
educatio 
nal quali 
fication 
prescrib 
ed for di 
fect rec 
ruitment 
will apply 
in case of 
protnotion 
transfer 


Period Method of rec - In case of vacan 
of pro - ruitmentie, di- des filled by pro 
bation , rect recruitment motion transfer 
if any or by transfer and grades /sources 

percentage of va - from which pro 
cancy to be filled motion , transfers 
by the various are to be made 
method : and theft scale of 

pay in Rs. 


- 


1 


2 


3 


4 


9 


10 


It 


12 


Years . 
20 - 24 


I Head 

tant 


Assis 


Rs. 
250 - 10 - 350 Non - Se - 

lection . 


I 


No. 


G . C . S . 
Class III, 
Minister 
ial Non 
Gazetted . 


A degree from a 
recognised Uni 
versity . 


Years . 

By promotion 
failing which 
direct recruit 
ment. 100 % 


Head decks 160 
– 10 — 250 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


2 
3 


Accountatat . 
Head Clerk , 


DoDo . 
1600 - 250 Selection 


Do. 


1 


Do . 


Do 


Do. 


> 


Do. 
(1 ) Senior Clerks 

80 - - 220 . 
(2) Stenographer 

( 80 - 220 ). 
(3) Cashier 

(80 — 220 ). 
(4) Storekeepers 

(80 — 220 ). 
Provided cate 

gories (2 ) (3 ) & 
U ) should work 
as Senior Clerks 
for 2 years be 
fort promotion 
as Head Cikccks. 


38 


2 


34 


9 


10 


II 


II 


12 


R & 
80 - 5 - 120 

EB 8 200 
— 10 /2 - 220 


years 
Non -Se 

lection , 


18 - 21 


Senior Clerk 
Assistant 
Accountant 


No . 


years 

2 


G . C . S . 
Class IIL 
Minister 
ial Non 
Gazetted 


25 % Direct 

75 % Promotion 


Intermediate 

Senior Cam 
bridge Higher 
Secondary Cer 
tificate or equi 
valent qualifi 
cations. 


Clerks 
(60130 ). 
Stenographers 

(80 - 220 ). 
Cashier 
(80 — 220 ). 
Store -Keepers 

(80 — 220 ) 
Stenographer 
(80 — 220 ) 


5 Stenographer . 


I 


» 


200 — 10 — 300 


» 


A degree from 
a recognised 


University . 


6 


Stenographers 


IO 


80 5 - 120 

- ERS 
200 1024 
220 . 


Intermediate ) 

Senior Cam 
bodge /Higher 
Secondary Cer 
tificate or equi 
valent quali 
fications. 


By Promotion 

faiting which 
by direct rec 

ruitment. 
Direct (Depart 

mental can 
didates will 
also be consi 
dered ). 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


7 Cashier 


4 


» 


By promotion fai- Junior Clerk 

ling which by (60 — 130 ) 
direct recruit 

ment. 
Direct. 


8 


Jimior Clerk 


III 


60 - 3 - 814 
EB - 125 
-- 5 - - 130 . 


Matriculation of 

equivalent qua 
lifications until 
replaced by 
Higher Secon 
dary , Profi 
ciency in type 

ing . 
Graduates with 
training in Social 
Welfare Work 


9 


25 


% 


Assistant Ins 
pector LE 
bour Welfare 


G .CS 180 - Prob . 
Class III . 2001 
Non -minis- 300 15 — 
teria ) Non - 450 . 
Gazetted 


50 % Direct Junior Assis 
50 % Promotion , tant Inspector 

Labour Welfare 
(150300 ) . 
Assistant Wet 
fare organisers 
( 150 - 300 ). 


[PartIP 


10 Welfare Or - 

ganiser 


4 


Do. 


Do. 


» 


» 


» 


Do. 


De 


Sec.8(i)] 


II Medic I Soci 

al Worker 


2 


Do. 


160 — 10 — 330 


> 


» 


Promotion 100 % Health Visitor 

( 125 - 225) and 
Field Worker 

( 80 — 220 ) 
66 -2 /3 % Direct. Senior Clesk 

33 - 1/ 3 % Pro (80 — 220 ). 
motion , 

Field Worker. 
( 80 — 220 ). 


12 Junior Assis 

tant Jospec 
tor Labour 
Welfare 


150 _ 10 _ 250 

EB10 
300 . 


3 


13 Assistant Wel- 

fare Orga 
niser 


Do 


D 


o. 


» 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


14 Cinema Ope 

rator 


100 — 5 — 150 


02 – 5– 150 


„ 


Experience 
the line . 


in Does not 

arise. 


66 - 2 /3 % Direct. Senior Clerk 
33 - 1/ 3 % Pro (80 — 220 ) 
motion . 

Field Workers 

(80 — 220). 
Direction Pro 
motion if sui 
table depart 
mental candi 
dates are avai 
lable 100 % 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


15 Driver 


. 


48 


Do. 


60 — 5/2475 


.. 


25 Knowledge. . of 

Motor Driving 


. 


Do. Cleaners (30 

1 / 2 — 35 ) and 
other class IV 
male staff (30 

1 /2 — 35 ). 
Promotion 100 % From lower cad 

ros. 


25 


NO . 


16 Purchase As 

sistant 


200 - 10 - 300 

— 156450 . 


» 


17 


Assis 


Field 
tent 


150 - 10 -_ 250 
— EBIO 


Graduate and 
knowledge of 
accounts and 
purchase of 

stores. 
Graduate with 
knowledge of 
Social Work 
and diploma in 
Social Educa 
sion . 


» 


» 


» 


300 . 


vo . 


I 


2 


9 


ΙΟ 


II 


12 


18 Field Worker 


Years. 
Non 
Seletion 821 


No. 


Years. 

2 


Rs. 
65 G . C . S . 80 - 120 

Class IL - EB 
Not -Ministerial 2002 - 10 /2 

Non - 220 
Gazetted 


Intermediate /Se 

nion Cam 
bridge /Highes 
Secondary Cir 
Dificate or equ 
ivalent quali 
fications, 

Do. 


50 % Promotion . Welfare Worker 
50 % Direct and Adult Edu 

cation Instruc 
tor (60 _ 130 ). 


19 


Store -keeper 


» 


100 % Promotion From Storekee 

per (62 _ 130 ) . 


IOO - 5 - 125 
- EB 
155 - EB 
6185 
60m3 - 81 — 

- EB - 4 
125 - 130 


20 Welfare Vor 

ker 


57 


Direct 


Matriculation of Does not 
equivalent qua- arise . 
lifications w 
til replaced by 
Higher Secon 


21 Physio - The 

topist. 


2 


200 — 10 — 400 


» 


25 Matriculation , 

Certificate in 
Physio - therapy, 
Fully trained 
in established 
physio - therapy 
centre in big 
military or civil 
Hospital Pra 
ctical ex 
perience nor 
mally upto 5 

years. 
No age A grade Du 
limit. sing & senior 

mid -wifery cer 

tificate . Regis 
tered in any 
of the States . 
Experience at 
least 3 years 
as a staff nurse 
in a big hospi 
tal of A regis 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


22 Ward Sister 


23 


Yes 


Non - Se - 
lection , 


50 % Direct 
50 % Promotion 


G . C . S . 200 10 - 300 

Class [11. - plus 15l - 
Non - minis - dhobi allor . 
terial Non - ance and 
Gazetted uniform al 

lowance . 


Staff purse ( 100 

- - 5 - 125 - 6 
185) 


[PARTIJ 


Sec.8(1)] 


23 


Sister Tutor . 


o 


35 


D irect. 


250 / 10 - - 300 
Rs. 15 / - dhobi 
ard uniform 
allowance . 


tered nurse 
and mitwife 
with B .Sc 
(Hons.) OT pass 
degree in Nor . 
sing and three 
years expe 
rience as a staff 
Nurse . 
A registered Does not 
Nurse and arise 
Midwife with 
B .Sc (Hons.) 
or pess Degree 
in Nursing 
with three 
years teaching 
experience in 
a school of 
Nursing or A 
registered Nurse 
and Midwife 
With & Sister 
Tutor s certi 
ficate from a 
recognised ing . 
titution . 
A grade nursing No. Mid - 
and senior wives 
midwifery cer who have 
tificates. Re - passed 
gistered in any the course 
of the States. in Gene 
Experience at ral Nurs 
least three ing and 
years as staff fulfil 
nurse in a big other pres 
bospital is de- cribed 
sirable . 

qualifi 

Hirts 
arc cligi 
ble for 
promo 
tion . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


24 


Staff Nurse . 


100 


» 


25 


„ 


50 % Direct. 
50 % Promotion , 


105 - 125 

-6185 
phxs Rs. 15/ 
dhobi and 
uniform 2 
lowance . 


Midwives and 
trained Nurses 
(60 — 130 ). 


II 


12 


Rs. 


Years . 


Years 


32 


25 


Matriculation 


Does not 


2 


Direct 


25 Probationary 

Nurse OT 
Student Nurse 


arise . 


G . C . S . 
Class LII 

Non - 
Ministerial 

Non - 
Gazetted . 


Stipend 

Non - 
Ist year 

Selection 
15/ - p .m . 
2nd year 20 ) , p . m . 
3rd year 25 /- p . m . 
4th year 30 / - p . m . 
Messing al 
lowance 30 /- pan . 
Uniform al 
lowance 
3 . 75 p . m . 
Dhobi al 
lowance 
4 . 50 p . m . 
Dearness al 
lowance 401- p . m . 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
JANUARY 
7 
, 
1961 
/ 
PAUSA 
17 
, 
1882 


26 Midwives , 


26 


» 


603- 81 
EB - 4 
125 - 5 - 130 
Plus 15 / 
dhobi and 
uniform al 
lowance . 


Senior Mid 
wifery certi 
ficate and re 
gistered in any 
of the States. 


27 House keeper 


25 


> 


60 - 3 - 81 
EB4 - 125 
- 5 - 130 


Does not 
arise . 


Direct 


Matriculation . 

Experience in 
Managing a 
mess. 


TO 


28 Xray tech 

Dician , 


80 - 5 - 120 
EB - 8 - 200 
- 102 – 200 . 


Matriculation 
with training 
in hospital la 
boratory work 
Preferably bols 


[ 
Part 
II 


ding & Lab . 
Tech s dip 
loma from a 
recognised In 
stt. Espe 
rience about 
three years . 


Seo.8(1)] 


29 Laboratory 

Technician , 


Non -Se 
lection , 


25 


IO MInon -Mi- 80 — 5 — 120 

nisterial EB 200 
Non -Ga- 10 / 2 — 220 . 
Zetted , 


Does not 
arise . 


2 


Direct, 


Matriculation 
with training 
in hospital 
laboratory work 
Preferably bol 
ding a Lab . 
Tech . s dip 
lomma from a 
recognised 
Instt. Expe 
rience three 
years . 


30 


Store -keeper 


NO. 


100 % Promo 
tion . 


Store -keeper 
(60 — 130 ) 


18 - 21 Intermediate ) 

Senior Cam 
bridge /Higher 
Secondary Cer 
tificate or equi 
valent quali 
fications and 
experience in 
the line . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


, 


31 Assistant 

Store- keeper. 


Direct. 


60 - 3 - 84 
EB4- 125 
- - 130 . 


Matriculation or Does not 

equivalent qua - rise . 
lification until 
replaced by 
Higher Secon 
dary and ex 
perience in the 
Line . 


44 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


Rs. 


Years. 


32 Chief Com 

poundo . 


25 


No 


2 years. Promotion 100 % Compounder 

(60 — - 130 ) 


2 NL Non - 60 - 3 - 81- EB - . . 

Ministerial 4 - 125 - 5 - 130 
Non - gazet - Plus Rs. 101 
ted 

special pay . 


Matriculation. 
Must possess 
qualifications 
entitling him 
to Registration 
under Section 
31( c) or 32 of 
the Indian 
Pharmacy Act , 
1948 . 

Do. 


33 Compounder 

(Allopathy ) 


Does not 2 years. Direct . 
Irise . 


60 — 3 — 81 — 
EB4 - 125 - 5 

- 130 . 
605/275 


34 Mistry 


- 


2 years. 100 % Promotion From lower grade 


THEGAZETTEOFINDLA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17.1882 


35 Craft Instruc 

tor . 


120 


200 


» 


Knowledge in 
the line. Ex 
perience as 
General Mistry . 
Training Certi 
ficate in crafts 
line , wood 
work , leather 
work , wearing 
and knitting , 
painting etc. 
Experience for 
2 years. 
A certificate in 
massage from 
recognised hos 
pital physical 
therapy deptt. 
Experience in 

the work . 
Matriculation . 
Lady Health 


Direct 


36 Massiver 


. 


60 — 5 2 – 75 

- 5 - 100 . 


37 Lady Health 

Visitor . 


No 


125 - 10 - 225 
plus Rs 151 


14 


50 % Direct. 
50 % Promotion. 


Field Worker 
(80 - - 220 ). 


[PARTII 


Dhobi god 
Uniformi al 
lowance . 


Visitor s Dip 
lona 


Midwives and 

other female 
staff provided 
they have pas 
sed the Lady 
Health Visitor s 
Diploma 


Sec.5(1) 


38 


Technical 
Assistant, 


11 


60 - 5 /2 - 75 

- - 5 - 100 . 


Does not 
arise 


Direct. 


39 Store -keeper . 


6 


Non - 
Selection 


, A certificate in 

the technical 
work from a 
recognised Uni 

versity . 
21 YTS . Matriculation or 

equivalent qua - 
litications un 
til replaced 
by Higher 

Secondary 
25 yrs . L . M . F . or LM . 


G . C . S . Class 60 - 3 - 81 - 
III non EB - 4 - 125 
ministeriał - 5 - 130 

non 
gazetted . 


Doss not 2 yrs . Direct, 
arise . 


40 


» 


Direct, 


Civil Assist 
ant Surgeon 
Grade II . 


P . 


120 - 8 . 
160 - 10 - 200 
- EB - 10 
300 plus 
25 % of pay 
non -Prictis 
ing allow 
аде. 
100 — Prob 
1500- on - 200 

EB - 15 – 
355 . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


41 Divisional Ac 

countant. . 


Ministerial 
Noo 
gazetted . 


Noo 
Selection 


A degree of a No 
recognised 
University & 
passed Divi. 
sional Accoun 
tant. 


Promotion 100 % From Head 

Clerks ( 160 
TO _ - 250 ) who 
have passed 
Divisional test 
Examination 

held by AG . 
Do . From Junior 

Draftsman ( 100 
5 - - 125 EB 
6 - 155 – EB 
6 - 185 ) 


42 


Senior Drafts 
man . 


150 - 7 - 185 
255 


Yes 


2 Non 

ministerial 
Non 
gazetted , 


2 


Candidates must 
be Mat 
riculation with 
a Civi Over 
seer or Drafts 
man Diploma 


ot 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


Years. 


43 Junior Drafts 


Promotion 

100 % 


mam 


From Tracer (60 
-- 4 - 120 EB 
5 - 150 ) 


Rs. 

Years . 

from the re 
cognised Ins 
titute and have 
worked as 
Draftsman 19 
a Civil En 
gineering De 
ptt. for 5 

years . 
5 Non -minist - 1005 - 125 Non - selection 25 Qualified Dra yes . 
crial Non - EB - 6° 

ftsman from 
gazetted 165 - EB6 

a recognised 
185. 

Engineering 
Institution with 
five years Ex 
perience in 
Buildings , De 
signs and 
Drawing and 
sound know 
ledge in esti 
mating essen 

tial. 
15 » 120m5 — 195 - y » Diploma holders. Does not 
7230 

arise 
15 » 45 — 2480 . . » 

Do. 
3 - 110 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


44 


Vaid 


. 


. 


> 


Direct. 


Does not arise. 


45 Compounders 

(Ayurvedic ) 
46 Overseer - 


22 


> 


100140 
EB - IO 
300 


Matriculate and 

should possess 
a Diploma in 
Civil Engineer 
ing institute . 
Experience in 
building pre 
ferred . 


[PARTII 


47 Surveyor 


. 


1 


6044 - 120 
EB _ 150 


Matriculate po 

ssessing Survey 
certificate of 
Competency 
from the Deptt . 
of Mines in 
India , Dhanbad . 


Sea,3(1)] 


48 


Tracer 


Do . 


Matriculate with 

5 years , exper 
ience in some 
Drawing Office 
as a Tracer or 
apprentice . 
Should be able 
to understand 
drawings and 
trace Deatly . 


49 


Ferto Printer 


2 


s 


60 — 5 /2 – 75 


.. 


Experience in 

the line, 


Does not 

arise . 


I 


» 


150-- 10 ~ 250 


.. 


» 


2 yrs. 


Direct 


Does not arise. 


50 Pump-am 

Engine 
Mechanic 


Matriculate . 

The candidate 
should hold a 
diploma io En 
gineering from 
any recognised 
Technical In 
stitute and 
should have at 
least 10 years 
exprerience in 
the mainte 
Dance and up 
keep of pumps ; 
motor vehicles , 
steam Road 

Rollers etc . 
Experience in 

the line . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


51 Electrician . 


2 


, 


75 — 3 — 125 


Non 
selection . 


No . 


Promotion 100 % Wireman 

2475 ). 


(60m 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


Rs. 


52 Plumber 


I III - Non - 

Ministerial 


7545/2 - 100 


Non - 25 Years Expedience 
Selection , 

the line, 


in 


Dons Dot 2 Years Direct. 
arise . 


Dan 
gazetted . 


gazetted 


Engine Driver 


. 


» 


Drivin .c .es 


Driviages 

periences 
Experience in 
the line. 


» 


Wiremen 


2 


I 


60 – 9/2— 100 
60 _ 2475 

Do . 

Do. 
ISO - I - 250 
EB10 - 300 


Switch Board 

Attendant. 
56 Linesman . 
57 Drama-com 

Music Master . 


» 


I 


» 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


. . 


58 Adult Educa - 

tion Instructor, 


73 Ministerial 

NON 
gazetted 


Intermediate 

Senior Cam 
bridge /Higher 
Secondary ær 
tificate or equ 
ivalent quali 
fication and 
experience in 

the line 
1821 Matriculation or 
years , 

equivalent qua 
lification un 
til replaced by 
Higher Second 
uy and exper 
ience in the 

line. 
25 Matriculation & 
years training in 

Maleriology . 


some381 - 
EB4- 125 
5 - 130 . 


185 - 8 - 225 


59 Senior Mala 

ría Inspector. 


Non - 
Selection . 


No . 


3 Non 

Ministerial 
non 
gazetted 


Promotion 
100 % 


From Malaria 
Inspector . 
(Rs. 100 — 185 ) . 


DO 


60 Assiettes 


60 Assistant Ena 

tomologist. 


. 


Do. 


Graduate und 

training in 
Malariclogy . 


From Laboratory 

Assistant 
(60 - 5 / 2 - 75 - 3 
Ios ) . 


(PARTII 


61 Malaria 

spector . 


In - 


29 


» 


. . . 


100 - 5 — 125 – 6 

- 155 - EB 
6185 


Matriculation & 
training in 
Malariology . 


Promotion 50 % * From Malaria 
Direct 50 % Sub - Inspector 

Rs. 60 — 512 – 

75 — 3 — 105 ). 
Direct 


SEC,3(1)] 


62 Draftsman . 


I 


, 


60 - 4 120 
EB - 5 - 150 


63 


Fitter . 


75 — 3 — 105 


Matriculation & » 
knowledge in 

the line. 
Experience and Does not 
knowledge in arise . 

the line 
Matriculation 


Does not arise. 


25 


» 


6052– 754 
3 - 105 


. 


- 


16 


» 


Do. 


Da. 


64 Malaria Sub 

Inspector. 
65 . Laboratory 

Assistant. 
66 Insect Col 

lector . 
67 Assistant Dra 

ma -cut-Mu 
sic Master . 


Do. 


Do. 


80 - 5 - 120 
EB -8200 
- 102 - 220 


Tears 


Matriculation or 
equivalent un 
ti replaced 
by Higher 
Secondary . 

Do. 


THECAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


8 


Yes 


Clerk - cum 
Store -Keeper 


Promotion 100 % 


2 Ministerial 

под 
gazeted . 


18 - 21 
years. 


From Junior 
Clerk (60 _ 130 ) 


60 - 3 - 81 
EB4 - 125 – 
5 - 130 plus 
Rs. 201 
special pay . 


69 Fitter Mechanic 


I 


Experience in 
the line, 


Does not 2 years Direct . 
arise. 


Does not arise. 


III non - 60 - 5 / 2 - 75 
ministerial 
non 
gazetted , 

75 — 3 - IOS 


Do. 


70 Water Meter 

Reader . 1 
71 Electric Meter 

Reader . 
72 Projector Op 

erator, 


60 5 / 

275 


49 


50 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


9 


10 


11 


Rs. 
100 — 10 — 150 . 


73 Gymnasium 

Inspector 


. . [25 Years 


Does not 
arise . 


2 Years. 


Direct. 


Does not arise . 


74 Assistant Mu- 

sic Master. 


I 


No 


60 - - 3 - 81 — 
EB4- 125 
5 - 130 


Certificate of 
physical train 
ing from a re 
cognised In 
stitute and 
good know 
ledge of Gym 
nastics. Prac 
tical experience 
for about 2 
years. 
Matriculation or 
equivalent qua 
lifications - 
til replaced 
by Higher Se 
condary with 
prescribed di 
plomain Music 
or degree 
from recog 
nised Insti 
tution 
Intermediate ! 
Senior Cam 
bridge / flighet 
Secondary cer 
tificate or 
equivalent qu 
alification , Dip 
loma in L . S . 
Government 
Deptt . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


I 


75 Assistant Town 

Administrator . 


150 — 10 — 250 
EB - 10 - - 300 . 


! 


76 Artist 


: 


i 


.. 


80 _ 120m - EB 

8 - 200102 
220 


Intermediate 

Senior Com 
bridge ! Higher 


| 


[PARTII 


Sec.8(i)] 


I 


77 Manual Train 

ing Teacher. 


150 — 10 — 250 
EB - 10300 


> 


> 


> 


Secondary Cer 
tificate or eq 
uivalent quali 
fications with 
diploma and 
or degree in the 
line from a 
recognised In 
stitute , 
Intermediate j 
Higher Secon 
dary / Senior 
Cambridge Or 
equivalent 
qualification , 
Diploma from 
a recognised 
Jastitution in 
Carpentry on 
other manual 
crafts . 
M . A . in Social 
Science with 
some research 
background 
or practical ex 
perience in 

teaching line . 
MA in Econo 

mics and ex 
perience in 
teaching line . 


No 


78 Teacher in 

Social Science 


» 


3 


200 - 10 - 300 
15 - 150 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1901/ÞAUSA17,1882 


do 


79 Laturer for 

Welfte Per 
sormel Train 
ing Institute 

Counst . 
ga X - Ray Therapy 

Assistant. 


I 


60 - 4 – 120 


» 


Matriculation 

with training 
in X - Ray The 
rapy, Prefer 
ably holding a 
diploma from 
a recognised 
Lostitution , 


IS 


$2 


10 


II 


12 


RS. 


regts . 


years 

2 


81 X -Ray Therapy 

Tactinicjan 


1500 - 250 


25 


No 


I III Non - 

ministerial 

101 
gazetted 


By promotion X -Ray Therapy 
failing which Assistant (60 _ 
direct 

4 - 120 ) 


Matriculation 
with training 
in hospital 
work Prefer 
ably holding a 
X -Ray Therapy 
Technical Dip 
loma from a 
recognised In 
stitution , Ex 
perience about 

3 years . 
Matriculation 
with training 
in Hospital 
work . Prefer 
ably holding 
a technicians 
diploma from 
a recognised 
jostitution , 


82 Technician 


» 


» 


Direct. 


80 - 5 - 120 
EB8200 
10 / 2 - 220 


THẾGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


83 Basket Making 

Instructor, 


6 


25 


120 
EB 82004 
TO / 2 - 220 


Intermediate 
Senior Cam 
bridge Higher 
Secondary Cer 
tificate or equ 
ivalent quali 
fication holding 
a degree or dire 
loma in Bas 
ket Making 

etc . 
Matriculation or 
equivalent qu 
alifications un 
til replaced . 


84. Master in 

Tailoring. . 


. . . 


» 


> 


60 - 3 - 1 - 
EB - 125 

5 - 130 


[PartIt 


IN 


by Higher Se 
condary with 
prescribed di 
ploma in 
tailoring . 


Sec.8(i)) 


CLASS TV 


85 Record Sup 


3541- 50 


25 years Middle pass. 


No 


si 


By Promotion , 


Peon 
(30 - 435) 


plies. 


I Class IV 

001 

gazetted . 
58 » l 


30 - 


35 


> 


» 


» 


86 Chowkidar . 
87 Daftry . 


6 


35 – 1 – 50 


Preferably an 

es - Serviceman 
Middle Pass 

Experience in 
the line. 


- 


35 ) 


Promotion fail- Peon 
ing which by 30 - 
direct recruit 
ment. 
D irect. 


88 


Peon 


. 


. 


. 171 


30 – 435 


Middle pass. 


s 


Does not 

arise . 
in No 


89 Sweeper 


: 


30 - 


35 


Experience 


line . 


THEGAZETTE.OFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


90 


Cleaner 


. 


21 


م 
در 
Middle Pass 


د 


Experience 
the line, 


in 


91 Labourers , 
92 Dai /Ayah *? 

(Women s 
Welfare 
Centre) 


93 Dresser 


. 


9 


40- 1 - 50 _ 2 


.. 


» 


5 
Studies apto 
Matriculation , 
Passed 
Dressership 

examination . 
Exprience in 

the line, 
Experience in 

cooking vege 
terian and 0:00 
vegetarian dish 
es . 


: 


„ i 


.. 


94 Head Cook 


Promotion 
100 % 


From Cook 
(30 — — 50 ) 


LATES 


P 


TO 


II 


IZ 


7 


Rs. 
Class IV non - 40 – 2 – 60 

gazetted 


.. 


25 Years 


Direct 


Does 


arise . 


95 Nursing Or 

derty Dresse 
ing Cum 
Nursing 

Orderly . 
26 Dbobi . 
97 Cook . 


„ 


.. 


» 


25 
29 


30 — 3 — 50 


Studies upto Does not 2 Years 

Matriculation arise . 
Passed in Dres 
sership exa 
mination 
Experience in 

washing . 
Fxperience in 
cooking vege 
tarian & non 

Vegetarian dishes . 
Read upto Ma 

triculation 
Experience in 

the line . 
Preferably an 

ex -serviceman . 


98 X - Ray attend 

tt. 
99 Tailor . . 


35 - 


50 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


IOI 


- 304 35 


100 Vard & Kit 

chen Servant 

(Male ) 
101 Do . (Female) 


Experience in 

the line. 
Experience in the 
line. 


102 . Mafi . 


. 


ham Room 


2 


103 Adipal Room 

Care Taker . 
104 Laboratory At 

- toodant. 
los Post Mortem 

Room Atten 

dant 
Too Llum . 
107 Bhisty 
10 $ Ayah for 

Hospital. 


[PartII 


109 Assistant Line 


40 - 2 - 50 


nas 


TIO Barkandes . 
III Khalasi , 


30 - 435 


SEC.3(1)] 


Preferably 20 

ex - serviceman . 


40 — 2 - 60 


Experience in 

the line. 


30 % + 35 
(Part- time) 


112 Attendant . 
113 Assistant 

Switich Board 

Attendant. 
114 Sweeper on 

Rs. 7 . 
115 Sweeper On 

Rs. 20 . 
116 Ferro Printing 

Mazdoor . 
117 Khansama-cum 

Chowkidar, 
118 Telephone At 

tendant 
119 Male , . 


30 - 7 - 35 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY7,1961/PAUSA17,1882 


35 — 1 - 58 


NOTE . - 1) The upper age limit prescribed for direct recruitment shall be relaxed in the case of Scheduled Castes / Tribes , displaced persuas and other 

Special categories in accordance with the general orders issued from time to time by the Government of India Ministry of Home Affairs . 
( 2 ) Relaxation of educational qualifications may , however, be granted in cases where the candidates are found otherwise well qualified . 


[ No. M - 11.5 (3 ) 57 . ] 


55 


56 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 / PAUSA 17, 1882 


[PART II 


New Delhi, the 29th December 1960 
G . S . B . 31 . - In excrcisc of the powers conferred by section 58 of the Mines 
Act , 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following rules 
to amend the Mines Rules, 1955 , the same having been previously published as 
required by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 59 of the said Act, namely : . 

1. These rules may be called the Mines ( Amendment) Rules , 1960 . 

2 . In rule 30 of the Mines Rules , 1955 , hereinafter referred to as the said rules, 
for the words " half a gallon " the words " two litres " shall be substituted . 


3 . In clausę ( e ) of rule 34 of the said rules, for the words " four feet" the word 
figures " 1 . 25 metres" shall be substituted . 


4 . In clause ( 3 ) of rule 43 of the said rules , for the words and figures " 100 
square feet " the words and figures " 10 square metres " shall be substituted . 


5 . In clause ( a ) of rule 63 of the said rules. 
( i) for the words and figures " 150 square feet" the words and figures " 14 

square metres " shall be substituted ; and 
(ii) for the words and figures " a height to the lowest part of the roof of 

not less than 9 feet " the following shall be substituted namely : — 
" (i) in the case of a flat roof, a height of not less than 2 . 5 metres to the 

lowest part of the roof; and 
( ii) where the roof is a sloping one, a height of not less than 1 . 8 metres 

to the lowest part of the roof and of not less than 2 . 5 metres to 
the highest part of the roof" . 


6 . In clause ( b ) of rule 65 of the said rules, for the expression " 50 ft ." the word 
and figures " 15 metres" shall be substituted . 
7. In the Second Schedule to the said rules 
( i) in item ( a ) for the word and figures " 2 } feet” , the word and Agures 

" 0 . 75 metres" shall be substituted ; 
( ii) in item ( h ) , for the expression “ 41 ft. 3 ft ., and 1 foot the words and 

figures " 1 . 40 metres, 0 . 90 metre and 0 . 30 metre" shall respectively 
be substituted . 


8 . In the Third Schedule to the said rules , in item (b ) for the expression 
" 41 ft., 3 ft., 1 ft.," the words and figures “ 1 . 40 metres , 0 . 90 metre and 0 . 30 
metre" shall respectively be substituted , 

(No . M . R ./ Am . (8 ) M - III-5 (5 )60.) 
New Delhi, the 31st December 1960 
G . S . R . 82 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of section 
83 of the Mines Act, 1952 ( 35 of 1952) , the Central Government hereby makes 
the following amendments in the Schedule annexed to the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No . GSR 975 
dated the 11th August, 1960 , namely : 
In column 1 of the said Schedule, in clause ( a ) of item l 
(1 ) in sub - clause ( ii ), for the existing entry , the following entry shall be 

substituted namely : 
" The Coke Factory of Bararee Coke Co., Ltd ., at Kendwadih , P .O . 

Kusunda, District of Dhanbad ." 
(2 ) in sub - clause ( lit), for the existing entry , the following entry shall be 

substituted , namely : — 
" The Coke Factory of Bhowra Coke Company at Bhowrah in the District 
of Dhanbad . " 

[No. 1 / 21 / 60 -MI.] 
A . P . VEERA RAGHAVAN , Under Secy . 


Sec, 8 (i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 / PAUSA 17 , 1882 


New Delhi, the 2nd January 1961 
G . S . R . 33 , - The following draft of certain rules to further amend the 
Industrial Employment ( Standing Orders ) Central Rules , 1946 , which the Central 
Government proposes 10 make in cxercise of the powers conferred by section 
15 , read with clause ( b ) of section 2 , of the Industrial Employment (Standing 
Orders ) Act , 1946 ( 20 of 1948 ) , is hereby published as required by sub - section 
( 1 ) of the said section 15 for the information of the persons likely to be affected 
thereby ; and no ice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consi 
deration on or after the 15th February 1961. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Rules 
1. These rules may be called the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders ) 
Central (Amendment ) Rules . 196 . 

2 . In the Industrial Employment ( Standing Orders ) Central Rules, 1946 , in 
Schedule 1 
( 1 ) in Model Standing Order No. 13, for clauses ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) the follow 

ing clauses shall be substituted . namely : - - 
" ( 1 ) No workman employed in the es ablishment who has been in con 

tinuous service for not less than one year under the employer 
shall have his service terminated until the workman has been 
giyen one month s notice in writing indicating the reasons for 
termination and the period of nolice has expired or the workman 
has been paid in lieu of such notice , wages for the period of 

notice : 
Provided that the provisions of this clause shall not apply to cases of 

retrenchment within the meaning of section 2 (00 ) of the Indus 

trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) . 
( 2 ) No workman employed in the establishment who has been in conti 

nuous service for not less than one year shall leave the employ 
ment except after giving one month s notice in writing and the 
period of notice has expired , or paying the employer an amount 

equal to one month s wages in lieu of such notice . 
Note . - The expression " continuous service occurring in sub - clauses 

( 1 ) and ( 2 ) above shall have the same meaning as assigned to 
it in clause ( eee) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 

1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) " ; 
( 2 ) in Model Standing Order No. 14 
( a ) in clause ( 2 ) , for the words " four days" the words " ten days" shall 

be substituted ; 
(b ) in clause 3 

(i) in sub -clause (g ), the word habitual shall be omitted ; 
(11 ) after sub -clause (k ) the following sub - clauses shall be inserted 

namely : 
" (1) smoking in prohibited places , 
(m ) sleeping while on duty , 
(n ) deliberate slowing down of work , 
(0 ) conviction in any court of law for an offence involving moral 

turpitude, 
( p ) giving false information regarding one s name, age, father s 

name, qualification or previous service at the time of employ 

ment, 
( g ) threatening , abusing or assaulting any superior or co - worker , 
( r ) habitual money -lending , 

(8 ) preaching of or inciting to violence." ; 
( c ) for clauses ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , the following clause shall be substituted , 

namely : 
" ( 4 ) ( a ) Where allegations of misconduct are made against a work 

man and the employer considers that he should be suspended 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961 / PAUSA 17, 1882 


[PART II 


from duty pending inquiry into such allegations, he may do so 
by serving on the workman an order in writing to that effect . 
Such an order shall take effect imm . diately on delivery to the 
workman . It shall be accompanied by a charge - sheet setting out 
the details of the alleged misconduct and the workman shall be 
given an opportunity of explaining the circumstances alleged 

against him . 
( b ) During the period of suspension the workman shall be paid a 

subsistence allowance equivalent to one -half of the average pay, 
as defined in section 2 ( aa ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

( 14 of 1947 ) . 
( c ) If on Inquiry the workman has been found guilty of the charge 

and it is considered that an order of suspension will meet the 
ends of justice , the employer shall pass orders accordingly . 
Where the period between the date on which the workman was 
suspended from duty pending inquiry into the allegations and 
the date on which the final order of suspension was passed 
exceeds ten days , the workman shall be deemed to have been 
suspended only for ten days or for such shorter period as is 
specified in the final order of suspension and for the remaining 
period he shall be entitled to the same wages as he would have 
received if he had not been suspended , after deducting the sub 

sistence allowance paid to him for such period . 
( d ) I on inquiry the workman has been found guilty of the charge 

and it is considered that an order of dismissal will meet the 
ends of justice, the employer shall pass orders accordingly . 
When orders are passed the workman shall be deemed to have 
been absent from duty during the period of suspension and shall 
not be entitled to any remuneration for such period, but the 
subsistence allowance already paid to him shall be not be 

recovered : 
Provided that in the case of workmen to whom the provisions of clause 

( 2 ) of article 311 of the Constitution apply , the provisions of 

that article shall be complied with . 
( e ) If on inquiry the workman has been found not guilty of the 

charge , he shall be deemed to have been on duty during the 
period of suspension and shall be entitled to the same wages 
as he would have received it he had not been suspended after 
deducting the subsistence allowance paid to him for such 
period ," 

[No. F . LRI. 1 ( 12 ) / 89.] 
A . L . HANDA , Under Secy . 


ERRATUM 
In the Gazette of India , Part II- - Section 3 (1) , dated 31st December, 1960, on 
page 1988 , atter G . S .R . 1529 , read " G . S . R . 1530 " for " G . S .R . 1532 " . 


PRINTS IN INDIA AY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLEHIND BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1981 


