EGISTEREP N<£ D-'£ri 


tllhe dmMte 



of Inbia 


EXTRAORDINA 

PART I—Section 1 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHO 



o. 122] NEW DELHI, THURSDAY, JULY 1, 1964 


GOVERNMENT OF AJMER 

FINANCE DEPARTMENT 

NOTIFICATIONS 


Ajmer, the 1st July 1954 

No. 22/32/94-Fin.—In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11 of the 
jmer Entertainments Tax Act, 1953 (X of 1953) the Chief Commissioner of 
ie State of Ajmer is hereby pleased to delegate all powers of the State Gov- 
rnment under the said Act, except those specified in the said Section and in 
ection 13, to the- Collector of Taxes, Ajmer. 


The Ajmer Entertainments Tax Rules, 1954 


No. 22/49/54-Fin.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
fction 13 of the Ajmer Entertainments Tax Act, 1953 (X of 1953), the Chief 
fcmmissioner of the State of Ajmer, is pleased to make the following rules for 
during the payment of the entertainments tax and generally for carrying into 
feet the provisions of the said Act: — 

. 1. Short Title.—These rules shall be called the Ajmer Entertainments Tax 
files, 1954. 

2. Definiti4ns .—In these rules— 

(i) ‘Ad’ means the Ajmer Entertainments Tax Act, 1953. 

(ii) ‘Farm’ means a form appended to these Rules. 

(iii) “Prescribed Officer’ means the person or authority to whom any powers 

are delegated under section 11 of the Act. 


{ v) 'Section and sub-section’ mean respectively a saction or sub-section of 
the Act. 


RULES 


Payment of Tax by Stamps 

,-fof stamps .—No person shall purchase any stamp required tor 
Si -frie Act except from such person as may be authorised by the 
rffetrt, to sell such stamps: 

h that nothing in this rule shall ap^ply to any person purchasing 
afflSd to a ticket “ the purpose of admission to an entertam- 


787 ) 


788 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDLRY [Fa 


(ii) that when the proprietorship of an entertainment obges hands, it sly 
be lawful for the new proprietor, after giving due noticto the prescril 
officer to purchase from the former proprietor the stock (unused stamps 
the latter’s possession. 

4. Issue of stamps.—No stamp issued for the purposes the Act shall 
issued to any person by or on behalf of the proprietor omy entertainmo 
otherwise than securely affixed to a ticket issued for the prose of author is’ 
admission to an entertainment. 

5. Price of admission shown on and stamp affixed to tier.—- Except as p, 
vided in rules 16 and 23 every taxable ticket issued on pajent for admiss: 
to an entertainment shall be clearly marked with the price oidmission, exch 
Ing the tax payable under the Act, and shall also have secrly affixed to i 
stamp of the value of the tax payable upon the said price ofdmission. 

0. Plural tickets.—I a) Every taxable ticket issued for thourpose of a dm; 
ting more than one person to an entertainment shall have clely shown tilery- 
the number of persons to be admitted and shall have affixe to it a stamp 
stamps equal in value to the total tax that would have beeraayable on tick;, 
for admitting each such person separately, 

(b) The stamp or stamps to be affixed to a ticket entltlir the purchaser s 
the exclusive use of a box or similar accommodation shall i of the values 
the tax that would be payable upon a ticket of the same pee admitting * 
person to the entertainment. 

7, Transfer of seat. —When the purchaser of any ticket aditting him to 
part of an entertainment wishes to transfer to another part ofche entertainn 
for which the price of admission is higher and taxable, the prorietor shall ia, 
him a second ticket stamped with a stamp of the value of the ifference betw, 
the tax leviable on the second ticket and that leviable on tl first. The p 
chaser shall retain the portion of the first ticket returned to hii under rule ft 

8. Season tickets.— Every season ticket, or ticket availah for more th 

one entertainment, shall have marked thereon the name of te purchaser . 
the period for which it is available and the stamp to be affisd to such tic 
shall be of value of the tax that would be payable upon a t-.ket of the s 
price admitting the purchaser to one entertainment. ! 

8. Defacement and destruction of stamps. —On admission of re purchaser 
proprietor shall cause every ticket, not being a season ticket c ticket availa 
for more than one entertainment, issued for admission to the entertainment 
be collected and the stamp to be defaced by tearing the tickt into two p 
tions across the stamp and one portion to be returned to the purchaser. 
purchaser shall retain his portion until he has left the place f entertain] <« 
The other portion shall be retained by the proprietor until 3 p.m. of the 
following the entertainment and shall then be destroyed. 

10. Torn etc. stamps.— No ticket bearing a stamp that has ben torn del 
or otherwise marked or mutilated shall be issued by the propridor of an er 
tainment. 

11. Maintenance of Registers. —Every proprietor of an enhrtainment s’ 
keep separate registers in Forms A, B. C and D showing the nimber of stai 
purchased and issued by him and the names of persons admitted to an en 
tainment free of tax, under rule 25 of these Rules. 

12. Refund of value of unused stamps. —The proprietor of an entertainr 
may at any time return to any person authorised to sell stamps under ru 1 
any unused stamps in his possession and shall on making an application b 
ing be entitled to diaim refund of their value, subject to a deduction 
anna for each rupee or portion of a rupee of such value, 

13. Renewal of damaged or spoiled stamps.—When any stamps purchasi 
use under the Act have been damaged or spoiled, the purchaser may app 
writing to the person authorised to sell such stamps who on being satisfied 
they have not been wilfully damaged or spoiled, may give in lieu thereof— 

(al other stamps of the same denomination and value, or 
(b) stamps of any other denomination to the same value, 

14. Application for refund.— An application for refund undei rule (> 
for renewal under rule (131 shall be chargeable with a court ee of 
annas: 

Provided that if the value of stamps in respect of which r < d or r 
is asked for does not exceed ten runees the fee payable on suet jfiicatio! 
be two annas only. 



Sec. 1 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 789 


Payment of tax otherwise than by stamps 

15. Security. —Every proprietor allowed to avail himself of the provisions of 
section 4(2) of the Act shall furnish such security to the officer prescribed by 
he State Government in this behalf as that officer may require. 

16. Unstamped tickets issued under the provisions of section 4(2) (a) and 
,b).—Every ticket issued by a proprietor, who has been permitted to avail 
imself of the provisions of section 4(2) (a) or (b), shall have shown upon it 
he price of admission (or if no price or a reduced price of admission is charged 
he usual price of admission to the class to which the holder is entitled), the 
hnount or tax and the total payable, provided that the prescribed officer may 
jXempt any proprietor upon such conditions and for such period as he thinks 

17. Return required under Section 4(2) (a) and ( b ).—Every proprietor mak- 
ng a consolidated payment under section 4(2) (a) or making payment in accord- 
ince with return of the payments for admission under section 4(2) (b) shall, 
vithin such time as may be required by the prescribed officer, submit to the 
mid officer a return in Form E and F respectively, showing the number of 
tickets issued at each rate, the gross amount received from the sale of tickets 
ind the amount of tax collected. He shall, if so required by the prescribed officer, 
also submit to such officer, within such time as may be required by him, a return 
0 t Form G showing the price of a programme or synopsis including tax, the 
number of programmes or synopsis issued, the gross amount received from the 
ijale thereof and the amount of tax collected. 

18. Return required under section 4(2) (c).—When a proprietor is permitted 

avail'himself of the provisions of section 4(2) (c) he shall submit to the pre¬ 
scribed officer within ten days of the entertainment a return in Form H showing 
■he number of persons admitted by the mechanical contrivance, the gross amount 
deluding tax paid for admission by such persons and the amount of tax collected 
Crom them. 

19. Admission by mechanical contrivance, notice. —No person shall in any 
't'ircumstances be admitted by any mechanical contrivance save on payment of 

the price of admission, inclusive of tax. Such price inclusive of tax shall be 
shown in a conspicuous position on or near the mechanical contrivance; and the 
fact that the price is inclusive of tax shall also be stated clearly. 

20. Payments under section 4(2).—All payments made in accordance with 
the provisions of section 4(2) of the Act shall be made to the prescribed officer 
within ten days of the entertainment at such time and place and in such manner 
ai he shall require. 

21. Payment of tax on programmes or synopsis. —Where payment of a pro- 
■amme 01 synopsis is compulsory, the tax shall be levied on the total sum paid 
>r admission to the entertainment including the sum paid for the programme 
■; synopsis. Where payment for a programme or synopsis is voluntary, the tax 
nail be levied separately on the sum paid for admission on the sum paid for 
he programme or synopsis. 

Miscellaneous 

22. Exemptions under section 7(1) and refunds under section 7(2).— (1) Any 
person claiming exemption, under sub-section (1) or section 7, from payment of 
the entertainments tax shall present an application for such exemption to such 
officer as may be authorised in this behalf by the State Government ten days 
clear before the date of the entertainment. 

(2) Any person claiming under sub-section (2) of section 7, a refund of the 
entertainments tax shall present an application for such refund to such officer as 
may be authorised by the State Government in this behalf within 15 days from 
the date of the entertainment. An application for refund not presented within 
such period shall be rejected. 

23. Form of exemption under section 7(1).—Where exemption is given under 
section 7(1), the officer exercising power under the said section shall issue to 
the proprietor a certificate in Form I, and the proprietor shall comply with the 
cc ncutions therein stated. 

24. Provision as to persons admitted without payment. —Every proprietor to 

entertainment admitting a person free of payment or on payment of a redur- 

sum shall issue to such person a ticket showing clearly thereon the full 

.arge for admission to the class to which the person is admitted. The tax shall 
,e paid on such ticket in the same manner as if it were a ticket issued on pay¬ 
ment of th% full charge and the person admitted shall for the purposes of these 
ules be deemed to be the purchaser of the ticket: 



790 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part I 


Provided that when a child not exceeding three years in age is admitted free 
of payment, he shall be exempt from the payment of the tax and when a child 
exceeding three years but not exceeding twelve years in age is admitted on pay¬ 
ment of reduced sum, he shall pay the tax only on the sum actually paid by him 
for admission and be exempt for the rest and the sum actually paid by him shall 
be printed or written on the ticket issued to him. 

25. General exemptions. — (1) When a person admitted is a member of the 
Indian naval Army or air forces in uniform he shall be exempt from payment 
of the tax. The word “Defence personnel” shall be printed, stamped or written 
on the ticket issued to such person. 

(2) Where members of the Indian navul, army or Air Forces, their families' 
and their guests are admitted to a performance organised and produced exclu¬ 
sively for the members of the armed forces under the orders of the Central Gov¬ 
ernment then the aforesaid persons shall be exempt from payment of the tax. 

(3) The Chairman and members of the Central Board of film Censors, the 
Regional and Assistant Regional Officers of the Central Board of Film Censors, 
and the Members of the Advisory Panel Bombay, Calcutta and Madras of tb» 
said Board, shall be exempt from the payment of the entertainments tax on th ’ 
complimentary tickets issued to them by the exhibitors to facilitate their entr' 
into a licensed cinema for the purpose of satisfying themselves that the provi¬ 
sions of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1951 are being carried out. — 

(4) The representatives of the Films Division, Ministry of Information ana 
Broadcasting, Government of India, Bombay, shall be exempt from the payment 
of the entertainments tax on the complimentary tickets issued to them By the 
exhibitors to facilitate their entry into a licensed cinema for the purpose of ensur¬ 
ing the observance of the terms and conditions of the contract entered into by 
the exhibitors with the President of India regarding the supply and exhibition 
of approved films, provided the persons concerned are accredited representatives 
of the Films Division and bear permits or certificates to that effect and have filed 
copies thereof with the District Magistrate. 

(5) When a person admitted is the proprietor or the landlord of the building 
of the cinema house or a member of his family, he shall be exempt from the' 
payment of the tax. 

(6) When a distributor or his representative is admitted to see a film pro¬ 
duced by him, such person shall be exempt from payment of the tax. 

26. Production of tickets. —A person who has been admitted to an entertain 
ment In respect of which the tax due is not payable in accordance with the pro ■ 
visions of section 4(2) of the Act shall upon demand made during the course cl 
or immediately before or after the entertainment, produce to any officer autho 
rised under section 9 of the Act, the ticket, badge, card of membership, vouchei 
or document by means of which he was admitted, or a portion of a ticket by 
means of which he was admitted bearing a stamp defaced in accordance with 
these rules, or the stamped cover of the book or the stamped principal part _oJ 
the sheet from which the ticket, by means of which he was admitted, was taken. 

27. Inspection of hooks, etc. —Any officer authorised under section 9 of the Act 
may at any time seize or require the proprietor of an entertainment to produce 
for inspection all his books and records and ail tickets or portions of tickets in 
his possession, relating to the entertainment. 

FORM A 
(See rule ii) 

Daily Abstract Register of Stamps 

Name of Proprietor . 

Name and place of entertainment . 

Denomination of stamp . 


Date Open- Number Total Numbers used on:— Total Closing Remark j 

- mg pur--------- of Col. Balance 

Balance chased Tickets Compli- Concess- 5 (a) (b) 

mentary ion 5 & (c) 

passes tickets 

(a) ( b ) (c) 


1234 5 6 78 . 







i&c. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 79 i 

FORM B 
(See Rule 11) 

Daily Detailed (Class-wise) Register of Stamps 
CLASS . 


Date 

Show Admis- 

No. of 

No, of 

Number 

Total 

Number Number Remarks 


sion 

tickets 

persons 

of con- 

of cols. 

of per- 

of Btamps 


rate 

issued 

admit¬ 
ted on 
comp¬ 
limen¬ 
tary 
passes 

cession 

tickets 

4 , 5 & 

6 

soils 

admit¬ 

ted 

free of 
tax 

used with' 
denomi¬ 
nation 
(0) ( b) (c) 
etc. 

I 

* 

2 3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 10 


FORM C 
(See Rule 11) 

Daily Complimentary Passes Register of Stamps. 


Date Show Class Number of Number of stamps used Remarks 

persons with denominations 

admitted (a) (b) ( c ) (d) etc- 

free 


12 3 4 5 


6 


FORM D 
(See Rule 11) 

Daily Register of TicketsjPasses exempted from Entertainment Tax. 


Date 

- Show 

Class 

Name of the Reason for Remarks 

Signature 




person which ad- 

of the 




admitted mitted 

Manager 




free of 





tax 



1 234567 







(See 


Statement of Tickets issued when 
Name and place of entertainment . 


Starting No.l Closing No. 

Class -;—»—■— --- 

i st 2nd 3rd ist 2nd 3rd 

show show show show show show 

1. Box 
Balcony 
First 

Second . 

Third 


2. CompUmcntdries ; 
Box 

Balcony 

First 

Second . 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 






3 . Concessions : 


Second to first 
I to Balcony 
Balcony to Box 
Total 

4. Defence Personnel 
Tickets : 

Box 

Balcony . 

1st . 

2nd 

3rd 


5. Other Exemptions : 
Box 

Balcony 

1st . 

2nd 


Grand Total 


<1 

SO 

Wi 


Sec. 1 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 



FORM F 
(See Rule 17) 


Statement of tickett issued when tax is payable under section (4; (2)(6) 
Name and place of entertainment ... 


so 


Picture 
Day . 


.Date 


.Day of week .Distributor 

Week .Run . 


Class 


I show 

Starting Closing 
No. No. 


Tickets 

sold 


II show 

Closing 

No. 


Tickets 

sold 


III show 

Closing 

No. 


Tickets Total 
sold Tickets 
sold for 
the day 


Rate 


Net 


Tax 


Gross 


Box . 


Balcony 

First 

Second 

Third 


Comp Tickets 
Balcony 
First 
Second 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part I 











Concession Tickets 

Balcony 

ist to Balcony . 
Balcony to Box . 

Total 

Defence Personnel 
Tickets 
Balcony 
First 
Second 

Other Exemptions 
Box . 

Balcony 

First 


Grand Total. 



Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 



796 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY IP art I 

FORM G 
[See Rule 17] 

Statement of programmes or synopses issued when tax ts payable under section 4(2) (a) or ( b ). 
Name and place of entertainment .Date of performance . 


Number issued of pro Gross Amount of Remarks 

Price of pro- grammes or synopses receipts tax collected 
grammes or subject to tax the purchases 
synopses in- whereof is Rs. As. P. Rs. As. P. 

eluding tax --— 

Compulsory Voluntary; 

FORM H 
(See Rule 18 ) 

Return of persons admitted by mechanical contrivance 
Name and place of entertainment .Date of performance . 

Place of admis- Number of per- Gross Receipts Amount of 

sion sons admitted tax collected Remarks 

Rs. As. P. Rs. As. Ps. 

FORM I 

Form of certificate prescribed under rule 23 

This is to certify that the entertainment specified below is authorised to be 
given Free of Entertainment Tax provided that the whole of the takings are 
devoted to Philanthropic or charitanle purposes. 

Description. 

Date. 

Place. 

Tills certificate is issued on the following conditions: 

(1) The whole of the takings of the entertainment without any deduction 

for expenses, however, small must be paid over to. 

( 2 ) rt the undersigned officer so requires, a full and true account of the 

whole takings, together with a written acknowledgment from the 
Society, Institution or Fund specified under ( 1 ) must be furnished 
lo them hy the persons responsible for the management of the enter¬ 
tainment, within one month after the date of entertainment and 
those persons will be liable for the payment of the proper tax if 
the undersigned officer is not satisfied that the whole of the takings, 
without any deduction for expenses, have in fact been paid over to 
Society, Institution or Fund referred to. 

(3 1 'Plus certificate must not be used for any other entertainment than that 
specified above, and it must be exhibited in a prominent position at 
the public entrance to the place of entertainment at the time the 
public are admitted and during the entertainment. No correction or 
erasure of any kind must be made in the certificate. 

(4) If the entertainment is not given on the date or at the place specified 
above the persons responsible for the management of the entertain¬ 
ment must give notice in writing to that effect within one week after 
the date fixed for holding it. 

(Sd.) 

.Officer. 

Note. —Failure to comply with any of the conditions set out in this certificate 
involves liability to penalty of Rs. 200. 

By Order, 

P. C. MUKHERJEE, Secy. 

PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER, GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OP PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1954 












