REGISTERED NO . D . 222 


The Gazette 


of 


Endia 


मत्यमेव जयते 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 50) NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , DECEMBER 13 , 1958/AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1880 


- 


- 


- 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were publislied upto the 2nd December, 1958 : 


- - - 


Issuc 


Issue 


No. and date 


issued by 


Subject 


Nu. 


123 No. 11 ( 1)- TR / 58 , dated 

November , 1958 . 


29th 


Ministry of Commerce and Industry . 


No. 32 ( 2 ) - TR / 58 , dated 

November , 1958. 


29th 


124 No. 101- ITC (PN ) / 58 , dated 2nd 

December, 1958 . 


Recommendations of the Tariff Commis 

sion regarding protection to the Elec 

tric Motor Industry . 
Recommendations of the Tariff Commis 

sion regarding protection to the Caustic 

Soda and Bleaching Powder Industry . 
Import of machinery and machine tools 

under U . S . Export- Import Bank Pro 

gramme. 
Import of Steel for construction purposes 

for establishment of new industrial un 
dertakings or expansion of the existing 
undertakings against scheme approved 
by the Government of India . 


No . 102 - ITC (PN ) / 58 , dated 2nd 

December, 1958. 


Copies of the Gazelles extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of Publications, 
Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes . 


CONTENTS 


PAGES 


GES 


PART II - SATION - - Statutcry Rules and 

Order botified by th , Ministry of Defencc . 


229 


323 


PART III - - SECTION 1 . — Notifications issued by 

the Auditor Gencral, Union Public Sorvice 
Commission , Railway Administration , High 
Courts, and the Attached and Subordinate 
Offices of the Goverament of India 
( Published at Simla ) . . 


1479 


729 


PAZT III - SECTION 2 . - - Notificatons and Votices 

issued by the Patent Diflcr , Calcutta 
( Publishod of Simla ) 


333 


Nil 


PART 1 - SECTION 1. - Notifications relating to 

Noo - Statutory Rulcs, Kegulations and Orders 
and Raolutions issued by the Ministrics 
of the Government of India ( other 
than the Ministry of Defence ) od 

by the Supreme Court 
PART I- SLOTION 2 .- - Notifications regarding 

Appointments , Promotions , Lcave, etc . 
of Government Officers issued by 
the Ministrict of the Government of 
India (other than the Ministry of 

Defence ) and by the Supreme Court . . 
PART 1 - SXOTION 3. - -Notification relating 

to Non -Statutory Rules , Regulations , 
Orders and Resolutions, issued by the 

Ministry of Defence . . . . . 
PART 1-- SLOTION 4.----Notifications regarding 

Appointments, Promotions, Lcavc , etc . 
of Officers, ingued by the Ministry of 

Defence 
PART II - SECTION 1. - Acto , Ordinances nod 

Regulations . . . . . . 
Part II -- SLOTION 2. --Bills and Roports of 

Select Committees on Billo . . . 
PART II - SEOTION 3. - SU -SuaTION (1) — General 

Statutory Rules (including orders, byo -laws 
etc ., of general character ) pued by the 
Ministria of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations 

of Union Territories ) . . . 
PART IJ - - SEOTION 3 - SUD-Szorion (II). - Statutory 

orders and notificariods inued by the Minis 
tuin of the Government of India (other than 
the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations of 
Upicn Territoria ) . . . . . 


275 


Paz ( 11 - SXOTION 3 . -- Notification issued 

by or under the authority of Chief 

Commissioners (Published at Simla ) . . 
Part III - -SECTION 4 , - Miscellaneous Nod 

Actions including notifications , ordori , a dver 
tivemcot and notices inued by Siuruinry 
Bodies (Published at Simla ) , 


Ni] 


603 


NII 


PART IV - Advertisements 

Private individuals 
( Published at Simla ) . 


and Notices by 
and Privato bodia , 

. 


223 


SUPPLEMENT No. 47 


Reported attacks and deaths from cholera , small. 

por, plague and typhus in districts in India 
during weck coding 15th November , 1958 


1137 


675 


Birthy and deaths from principal diseases lo 

town with a population of 30 ,000 apd 
over in India during week coding 150) 
November , 1938 

. . . . 


28051 


678 


I 323 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 13 , 1958 /AGRAHAYANA 22, 1880 


[PART I - SEC . 1 


324 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


PART I - Section 1 
Notifications relating to Non -Statutory Rules, Regulations and Orders and Resolutions issued 
by the Ministries of the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by 

the Supremo Court 


OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY TO THE PRESIDENT 

New Delhi, the 3rd December 1958 
No. 91- Prcs ./ 58 . - Tlie President is pleased to award the 
President s Police and Fire Services Medal for gallantry lo 
the undermentioned officer : 

Name of the Office and Rank 
Shri Jagdip Singh Pathania, 
Executive Officer (ex -officio Fire Officer - I), 

Municipal Committee, Pathankot . 
Statement of Services for which the Decoration has been 

awarded . 
A terrific explosion took place on the morning of 24th 
February , 1958, at Pathankot when ammunition boxes were 
being unloaded from railway wagons resulting in 43 persons 
being killed and 19 injured . A devastating fire broke out 
as a result of the explosion and threatened lo envelop thie 


whole town . But graver still was the risk of further explo 
sion from boxes of arotnunition and cylinders of oxygeti 
which had been unloacled and which were completely 
surrounded by the fire. This was the situation when shri 
J. S . Pathania lcd the Fire Brigade into the sprcading cori 
Ilagration in total disregard of personal safety . He personally 
initiated the task of salvaging the boxes of live ammunition 
and other combustiblc material and with the assistance of 
Military Fire Brigade Unity and rescue parties he was able 
to bring the conflagration under control within a couple of 
hours. Shri Pathania displayed conspicuous gallantry and 
exceptional couragc and leadership in conducting the fire 
fighting operations. 

2. This award is made for gallantry under rule 4 (1) of the 
rulcs governing the award of the President s Police and Firc 
Services Medal and consequently carries with it the special 
allowancc admissible to officers of the Fire Services as pro 
vided in rule 5 . 


A . V . PAI, Secy . 


SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

Now Delhi , the 27th November, 1958 
No. F .22158 - SCA .- - In pursuance of Rules of Ordır It of the Supreme Court Rules 1950 (as amended ) it is hereby 
notified that the following days will be observed as Court holidays during the year 1959 . 


Name of holiday 


Month & Date 


Day of the week 


No. of 
days 


į 


·· 


. 
. 


·· 


· 


. 


·· 


· 


· 


Republic Day . 
Basant Panchami . . 
Shivratri 
Holi 
Good Friday 
Id - ul - Fitr 
Baisakhi 
Ram Nuumi 
Budha Purnima 
Id -uz - Zuha 
Muharram 

. . . 
Independence Day 
Solono 
Jagam Ashtami . . 
Miladun Nabi . 
Mahatma Gandhi s Birthday 
Dussehra 
Diwali 
Guru Nanak s Birthday . 
Christmas & New Year IIolidays 


Monday 
Thursday 
Saturday 
Tuesday & Wednesday 
Friday 
Friday 
Monday 
Friday 
Friday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 

Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Wednesday 
Friday 
Friday , Saturday & Sunday 
Saturday & Sunday 
Sunday 


·· 


. 


. 


26th January 
. 12th February 
, 7th March 
· 24th & 25th March 
. 27th March 

Toth April 
, 13th April 
· 17th April 

22nd May 

18th Junc 
. 17th July 

Isth August 

18th August 
, 26th August 
, 16th September 
- 2nd October 
· 9th , 1oth and Ith October 

31st October & Ist November 

151h November 
, 24th December 1959 to 2nd 

January 1960 (both days in 
clusive ) . 


. 


· 


· 


· 


i 


By order of the Court, 
ARINDAM DUTT , 

Registrar . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

RESOLUTION 
New Delhi, the 4th December 1958 
No . F. 22 (5 ) -NS / 58. - The following changes arc made in the 
personnel of the Central and State Advisory Boards of the 
Women s Savings Campaign set up in this Department s 
Resolution No . F . 8 (14) -NS / 56 dated the 29th October , 1956. 
(1) Smit . Phulrenu Guha, 55 / 5 , Manoharpukar Road , 

Calcutta , ( 29), is fiominalel a Member of the Central 
Advisory Board . 
Smt. Protima Roy is nominated Chairman , State Ad 
visory Board , West Bengal vice Smt. Sujata Banerjee , 
who is nominated a Meroler of the samc Board . Smt. 
Padınini Sen Gupta , 1, Kud Street, Calcutta , (16 ), is 
algo nominated i Menber of the West Bengal State 
Advisory Board , Smt. Abha Maity and Kumari Maya 
Bancrjcc , Members of the samc Board have resigned , 


( 3) The namc " Sunt, Bandu " . Member, State Advisory 

Board , Rajasthan , appearing in this Department s 
Resolution of evcn No, dated the 28th August, 1958 

should be corrected to read " Smt. S . P . Wanchoo " . 
(4 ) Sml, Rama Rao , Member , Central Advisory Board , 

has resigned 
(5 ) The trainc " Smt. Phul Kumari" Member , Statc Advi 

sory Board , Rajasthan , appearing in this Department s 
Resolution of even No. dated the 28th August, 1958 
sliould be read as " Phul Kumari Agarwal” . 

R . SARAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 29th November 1958 
No . F .8 -24 / 57-A , 10 . - In partial modification of thic ergt 
while Ministry of Education and Scientific Rescaich Notifica 
tion No . F - 8 - 24 /57-C2, dated the 1st March , 1958 , Shri 


PART I - Sec , 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 15, 1958/ AGRAHAYANA 22, 1880 


325 


2 


V . K . Bawa , I. A . S ., Director, Central Records Oflice , 
Hyderabad , a nominee of Andhra Pradesh Government is 
appointed as a member of Research and Publication Com 
míttcc of tho Indian Historical Records Commission l ice 
Shiri R . M . Joshi, The Lerm of appointment of Shri 
V , K . Bawa will expire on SISL Maich , 1962 . 

R . L . ANAND , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

RESOLUTION 
STATE AWARDS FOR FIĻMS 

New Delhi, the 8th December 1958 
No. 21 / 5 / 58-FC . - In supersession of the Resolution of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No . 81 / 5 /57-FC , dated the 5th November , 1957 , 
the following rules are notified concerning State Awards 
for Filnis : - 

RULES 
1. The object of the State Awards for Films is to encourage 
the production of films of a high aesthetic and technical 
standard and of educational and cullural value. 

2 . The following State Awards for Films have been 
instituted : 


(Central Advisory Board of Education in India ) 

New Delhi, the 5th December 1958 
No. 1 , 1 -4 / 68 -SE , 1. - Shri A . A , A . Fyzee , Vice -Chancellor , 
Tammu & Kashmir University , Srinagar , has been re -nominated 
24 a incmber of the Central Advisory Board of Education 
for a period of three years with effect from llth September , 
1958 . 

2 . Prof. M . S . Thacker , Secretary , Ministry of Scientific 
Rescarch & Cultural Affairs, Government of India , New Delhi 
has been nominated as a member of the Central Advisory 
Board of Education for a period of three years with effect 
fron 26th July , 1958 . 

VEDA PRAKASHA , Asstt . Edu , Adviser. 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL 

AFFAIRS 

(ARCHAEOLOGY) 
New Delhi, the 3rd December 1958 
"No. ¥ . 11-10 / 58 - C .1. - Io continuation of this Ministry s notifi 
cations of cven No. date the 21st August, 1958 and 24th 
September 1958 , the following persons have been appointed 
as rachabers of the Central Advisory Board of Archaeology for 
a period of three years with effect from 1st September, 1958 : – 

Members nominated by Learned Societies 
1, Dr. V . D . Rao , Ruia College , Matunga , Bombay - 19 vice 
Dr. Bisheshwar Prasad . — Indian History Congress. 

2. Prof. Dr. P . V . Bapat, Delhi University, Delhi- 8 vice 
Prof. V . V . Mirashi. - All India Oriental Conference . 
! Nepresentative cach of the fourteen State Governments 

1 . Shri B . V . Nath , Superintendent Archacology, Govern 
ment of Orissa , Bhubaneshwar vicc Shri P . Acharya -- Govern 
mnent of Orissa , 

2 . Dr. S . T . Satyamurti, Assistant Superintendent, Govern 
nient Museum , Madras vice Dr. A . Aiyappan . - Government of 
Madras. 

8. Shri Mahmood Ahmad , Principal, Amarsingl College , 
Srinagar vire Shri T . N . Khazanchi. - Government of Jammu 
and Kashmir . 

D . L . SONDHI Under Secy. 


(ANTHROPOLOGY ) 
New Delhi, the 6th December 1958 
No. F .29 -3 / 58-Sur, III. - In partial amendment of Ministry 
of Education and Scientihc Rexarch Notification No. F . 8 - 26 / 
57- C - 1 , dated the 25th January , 1958 , for para (i) therein , the 
following should be substituted : 
(i) Three members of Parliament - One from the Rajya 

Sabha and two from the Lok Sabha to be elected by 
thc respective House 
( 1) Shri Satish Chandra Samanta , M . P . - (Lok Sabha) . 
(2) Shri Jamal Khawaja , M .P . 

(Lok Sabha). 
(8 ) Dr. Raghubir Sinh , M .P. 

( Rajya Sabha ). 


ALL - INDIA AWARDS 
(a ) Feature Films. 
(i) President s Gold Medal for the best film and a cash 

prize of Rs. 20 ,000 to ity producer and Rs. 5 ,000 to 

its director , 
(ii) All-India Certificate of Merit for the second best 

Glm and 2 cash prize of Rs. 10 ,000 to its producer 

and Rs. 2 ,500 to its director. 
( iii) All- India Certificate of Merit for the third best alm . 
(b ) Documentary Films. 
(1) President s Gold Medal for the best film and a cash 

prize of Rs. 4 ,000 to its producer and Rs. 1 , 000 to 

Its director . 
(ii) All- India Certificate of Merit for the second best film 

and a cash prize of Rs. 2 ,000 to its producer and 

Rs, 500 to its director . 
( iii) All- India Certificate of Merlt for the third best Glm . 
(c) Children s Films. 
(i) Prime Minister s Gold Medal for the best film and 

a cast prize of Rs, 20 ,000 " to its producer and 

Rs. 5 ,000 to its director, 
( ii) All- India Certificate of Merit for the second best film 

and a cash prize of Rs. 10 ,000 to its producer and 

Rs. 2 ,500 to its director, 
( 111) All-India Certificate of Merit for the third best film . 
REGIONAL AWARDS 

( d ) President s Silver Medal for the best feature film in 
cach Indian language and Certificates of Merit for the two 
next best tealuic lilms in cach such language . 

Esplanation 
The terms " produce " and " director" used herein will be 
construert as referring to the producer or the director , as the 
case may be, as given in the ciedll titics of the film duly 
certified by the Central Board of Film Censors. 

3 . The Awards will be made annually on a date to be 
lixed by Government. 

4 . All Indian feature , documentary and children s filmy 
certified for public exhibition by the Central Board of Film 
Censory in the preceding calendar year will be eligible for 
eutiy , which may be made by the producer or any other 
duly authorised person in the Torm contained in the Schedule 
hereto anncxed . The term clocuniculary film includes a 
scientific filin or a úlm intended for educational purposes , 

5 . In addition , Regional Officers of the Central Board of 
Film Censors may recommend any fealure , documentary or 
children s films for entry for the Awards. 

6 . No entry fee will be charged , but the entrant will be 
required to submit at his cost a print of the lilm together 
with an English rendering of the script/ synopsis if the film 
is in a language other than Hindi or English , and publicity 
matcrial, to such Regional Officer of the Central Board of 
Film Censors, as may be spccllicd , The entry should be 
accompanicd by particulars of the film such as title of the 
film , gauge , language , length , name of the producer , name 
of the director , number and date of the certificatc of ceni 
sorship and date of release , etc. as in the form refçrrel to 
in rule 4 . 

7 . The decision of the Government of India whiculier any 
film is a feature film , documentary film or children s filmz 
for the purpose of the Awards will be linal. Governinent 
may prescribc thc maximum length of a children s film for 
the purpose of cntry for the Awards, 

8 . Ordinarily, a film which is a dubbed version , a retako 
or an adaptation of another film will not be eligible for 
consideration thc thc Awards. Government , may , however, 
in any particular instance , where it is satisfied that the 
adaplecl version or thc retake represents a fresh contribution 
towards the interpretation of the story, allow the entry of 
such 1 film for thc Awards. The producer of a filin made 
in more than one language versions, may enter only one of 
the versions of that film . Films based on classics of mytho . 
logy shall not, by reason of the subject , be deemed to be 
adaptations. 


1 K MUSTAFY , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 

(Department of Transport ) 

(Transport Wing) 

RESOLUTION 
New Delhi, the 8th December 1958 
No . 23 -PLA (91)/ 58. - In modification of the Ministry of 
Transport & Communications (Department of Transport ) 
Resolution No . 29 - PLA (91) /58, datcd the 23rd August, 1953 
published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary Pari I Section 
I, dated the 25th August, 1958 the Government of India have 
deciclel that Shri K . Mitter , Director of Operations, Calcutta 
Port, sliall be a tuember of llie Committee for the Classifica . 
tion and Categorisation of Class III and Class IV emplovecs of 
Major Ports vice Shri S . Nanjundial , who has resigned from 
the Committcc . 

ORDER 
That a copy of the Resolution bc communicated to the 
interests concerned and that it be published in the Gazette 
of India for general information . 

NAKUL SEN , Joint Secy . 


326 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 15 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1880 [ PART 1 - SFC . T 

- - - - - = - - = 
9 . Entries for tlie Awards will be invitcd by Government thc recomnicndations have been made by the special Coin 

mittee , the recommendations shall be subject to the approval 
during a period to be notified , relaxable in cxccptional cases 

of the Central Committec . 
at the discrction of Government, 

21. The Regional Committccs, thc Documentary Committee 
10 . All transport costs on the consignment and retuun ot 
the film and publicity material will be 

and the Central Committee may determine their own pro 
payable by the 

cedure for the examination of hims. 
chitrant. 

24. Tlie quorum or a Regional Committee will be four 
II. All films will be submitted at owner s risk and while 
the Government will take cvery reasonalle care of the tilın ! and that of the Documentary and the Central Committee 

three and xir respectively . Chic clccisions of the Central, 
submitted , it cannot accept responsibility for loss or damage 

Documentary and Regional Conimittees will be by z niajority 
to the film whilc in its possession . 

of the members present. 
12 . Thicc Regional Committccs appointed by Government 

13 . Nothing contaitied herein shall be construcd as restrict 
will initially examine leature filmis entered for the Awards 

ing uic discretion of a Regional Conituillee, the Docunicntary 
in the languages indicated below : 

Cornmilice or the Central Committee from making a recom 
(i) Regional Committee at Bombay - Hindi (including 

mendation that none of the films in a particular language 
Urdu and Hindustani), Marathi, Punjabi, Gujarati 

or category is of a standard adequate for an Award , 
and English . 
(ii) Regional Committec at Caluutta - Bengali, Assamesc 

2:41 . The recommendations of the Central Committec will 
and Oriya . 

be submitted to Government for approval. 
( iii ) Regional Committee at Madras - Tamil , Telugu , 25 . A film will be cligible for an Award only in one of 
Kannada and Malayalam . 

the tree categoricy viz., feature, documentary or Children s 
13. Each Regional Committcc will be composed of: 

ailm . A film may, however , be given an All - India as well 

as a Regional Award in the same category . 
(a ) A Chairman nominated by Government, 

26 . The Regional Committees , the Documentary Committee 
( lo ) Not more than four distinguished persons of culture , 

and the Central Committee will cxatnine films ar such place 
art or literature frominated by the Governinout of 
India in consultation with the State Government anl time 9 muy be considcrcd fcasiblc. 
concerned with the language . (Care will be taken to 

27. Government shall be enilec to retain , without pay 
cnsure that all the languages of the region arc 

ficut of cost, the print entered for the Awards of a filin 
represented in the selection of these four pcrsonis ) 

which feccive , ani Award in the forin of a medal and / or 
( ) Pergony, not exceeding threc , qualificd to judge 

canlı , 
tochmal standard , presentation , direction and 
treatment values of films, nominated by Governvient 

28 . The function for the presentation of thc Awards will 
from it panel of names representing the industry . 

be hell al such place and on such latc as Government may 

determine. 
14 . The Regional Committees will recommend in order 
of merit a list of threc fcalute filing in each language for 

SCIFDULE 
consideration by the Ceunal Committee , 

FORM 
15 . The documentary mms entered for the Awards will be 
initially cxamined by a Documentary Committee appointech 

For entry for the State Awards for Films 
by Governincnt with a membership nor exceeding live . This 

( 7o be submitted in duplicate) 
Comiittee will recominend in order of merit six ocll 
mentary films for consideration by the Central Committee . 

(Spe rulc 4 ) 
16 . The Central Committee will be composed of: 
(a ) A Chairman nominated by Government. 

The Regional Officer, 
(b ) Chairman of thic thrce Regional Committees . Where 

Central Board of Hilm Censors , 
a Chairnian is not available to sit on the Central 
Committec, Government may nominate a muçmber of 

Bombay / Calcula /Madras, 
the Regional Commillee concerncc 01 the Central 

ENTRY FOR STAZE AWARDS FOR FILMS 
Commilice . 
( C) Nou more than four distinguishal persons ol culture , 1. (i) Title of the film : 
art or literature nominated by Government, 

(ii ) Wlicther Feature / Documentary / Children s film : 
(11) Persons, not cxceeding three , qualified to judge 

(iii) Language of the lilm : 
technical siandurid , presentation , direction and trcal 
ment values of fimus, nominated by Government froin 

(iv ) Length and guage of the film : 
a panel of james representing the industry , 

(1 ) Number of reels : 
(c ) One member of the Conral Board of Film Censors 

(vi) Colour of the film : 
11ominated by Government, 

(vii ) Name anel dress of the producer : (with telephone 
17 . Notlıing containel in rules, 19 , 15 and 16 will preulinic 

number, if any) 
the co - option of an additional member to assist the Central, 

( viii) Narnc and address of the Director ; 
Druncitary or a Regional Committee , as the case may be, 

( iv ) Nanies and addresscy of principal inembers of the 
in examining ( nix in ny particular language and the incin 

cast: 
ber so co -opted will have all die rights of an ordinary 
member . 

( V ) Ninbet and clutc of Certificate: 
18 . Meinbership of the Central, Documentary and Regional 

(xi) Date of relcase : 
Committees will be honoraiv , bul the menubcrs my he 2 . Please state whether the ſilm is a lubbeit version , an 
allowel such travelling and conveyanco allowincos 5 my adaptation or a retake of another film . If so , give particulars 
he sanctioned by Government from tinc to time, 

of the film of which it is al dubbel version , an adaptation 
19. The Ceutral Committce will consider the recommenda 

Os retakc. 
tions of the Regional Committees and the Docuuncntury 

8 . Where the person making the entry is not the producer , 
Committee , The Cenral Committee muy , for reasons to be 

please state whether he has been duly authorised to make 
recorded in writing, call for the records of a Regional Con 

tlır cntry . 
mittee or the Documentary Committee and may also cximit 

I certily that the staterncnts inade above are truc to the 
any loi cntered for the Award , but not recomncmeil hy a best of my knowledge and belief, 
Regional Committee or the Docuincntary Commillee . The 
Central Committcc will recommend in order of incrit: 

I hereby agree to the Government retaining the print of 

the film , willout paynicht of cost , in the cvent of its receiving 
( 1) Three best feature films for the All- India Awanis . an Awird in the form of a modal and / or cash . 
(2 ) Threc lest documentary filing for the 111- India 
Awards. 

Dutc: 

Signature : 
( 3 ) Three best feature Gims in each language other than 

Place ; 

Adress : 
English for Regional Awards. 
20 . The Central Committec , or if the Government so 
directs, a Special Committee constituted for 

ORDERED that the Resolution be published in the Gazctte 

this purpose, 
will cxamine the children s filmny entered for the Awards and 

of India for general information , 
recommend the best three films in order of merit, Where 

V . KUMAR , Dy. Secy 


to 


