tf[o 222 


REGISTERED No. 


l 

oRT 

(The (Baxettc of <3ndia 

srrfwT qqnfam 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 




51] df 3Tfr*lT, 23 , 1967/^2, 1889 

No 51] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA a, l8f9 

fB 7TFT 5i fWN W; H^UT qt tsfpft $ ftmH ftp SPOT RtpHR % it Wt 3TT ) 

Separate paging Is given to this Part Ln order that It may be filed 
as a separate compilation. 


wn M-wto S-grnpnui < »>• 

PART H—Section 3—Sidi-seciiou (ii) 

(*wt q-s’^a mV fjUq.yj X i, nV-ti? sAy (tyq amq bti*r 9M ®V?qhr) 

nf'.jflu giftsr n ; *?• t 'sr-’O fat? nr ftfu<F eftu nW i 

Statutory orders and notification* Issued by the Minfttrit t of the Govern¬ 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories ) 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 13th November 1967 

S.O- 4404 _In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 

Act, 1901, the Election Commission hereby publishes the order pronounced on. 
tire 23rd October, 1967, by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, Indore Bench, 
Indore, ki Election Petition No. 43 of 1967. 

HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH. INDORE 
Eletlction Petition Case No. 43 oy 1967 
Applicant Opposite party 

Suriya Prasad s/o Hariram Vs. Atamdas s/o Jiwan Das 

R/O 91. Khcdaphti Colony, Gwalior Jatav R/O Hem Singh Ki-Parade, 

Baahkar. 

Application for u/s 30A read with section 100 of the Representation of the 
People Act. 1951, by the petitioner calling in question the election of Shri Atam- 
das, a returned candidate from the Morcnu Reserved Lok Sabha Constituency 
No.’ 1 uf the State of Madhya Pradesh. 

( 46 R 5 "1 




4686 the gazette of india : December 23 , 1997/pa us a 2 , lego [Pari ii_ 


Petition presented by Shri Suriya Prasad on 10th April, 1967. 

The application coming on for Anal hearing on 28th September, 1907, before 
the Honourable Shri Justice M, A. Razzaque and the Honourable Shri Justice ** 
in the presence of Shri G, L, Ozha Counsel for the applicant, and of Shri A. P. 
Mishra with Shri K, L. Goyal Counsel for the opposite party, the following order 
was passed by the Court:— 

Election Petition No. 43 or 1907 

Suriya Prasad v- Atamdas 

ORDER 

By this election petition preferred under section 80A read with section 100 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, as duly amended uptodate (here¬ 
inafter called the Act) by the petitioner Shri Suriyaprasad of Gwalior, a defeated 
Congress-candidate, the election of the respondent Shri Atamdas of Lashkar, 
Gwalior, a successful independent candidate from the Morena Reserved Lok 
Sabha Constituency No. 1 of the State of Madhya Pradesh, has been challenged. 
The respondent was declared elected on 23rd February, 1967 from the said 
constituency and the main question involved in the case is whether on the date 
of his election, the respondent was not qualified or was disqualified to be chosen 
to fill the said scat under section SA read with section 7(b) of the Act because 
of a Government contract said to be subsisting between him and the Centra] 
Government on the date of his election. 

2. The admitted facts are that the petitioner and the respondent along with 
five others (and who have not been impleaded as co-respondents in this petition 
because the only prayer is to declare the respondent's election to be void) were 
the contesting candidates from the Morena Reserved Lok Sabhii Constituency 
No. 1 of the State of Madhya Pradesh, During the course of the argument, it 
was admitted by both the parties that the last date for filing the nomination 
paper was 19th January, H’07. The respondent secured 1,18,167 votes and next 
to him the petitioner received about 38,000 votes and accordingly, the Return¬ 
ing Offleer announced the result on 23rd February, 1967, at Morena declaring 
the respondent as returned candidate. 

3. The further admitted facts are that the respondent, in the course of his 
trade or business entered into a contract on 25th February, 1954 for the “repair¬ 
ing work of Ratnawali Burj Raisen Fort”, with the Department of Archaeology, 
Government of India at Bhopal. The contract was for Rs. 37,012 and the work 
was to be executed and completed within three months from 25th February, 
1954, vide (Ex. P. 2), (P. 4-A) and (P. 4-B). This contract was the subject mat¬ 
ter of the previous election petition No. 433 of 1957 and in that petition, the 
present petitioner as well as the respondent along with others were parties. 
That petition was decided by the Election Tribunal, Gwalior on 27th October, 
1958 and the Tribunal there had held that on the date of the scrutiny of the 
nomination papers in the 1957-election, the contract was subsisting between the 
respondent and the Government of India and, therefore, the respondent suffered 
from the disqua’ified vide Ex. P. 11. The matter went up in appeal before 
the High Court of Madhya Pradesh as First Appeal No. 133 of 1958, decided on 
13th July, 1959 and in that, appeal, the above finding of the Tribunal was con¬ 
firmed and it was also held that there was improper acceptance of the nomina¬ 
tion paper of the respondent. 

4. The petitioner’s case is that even now there still subsists the said contract, 
namely, “repairing work of Ratanwali Buri Raisen Fort" entered into by the 
respondent on 25th February, 1954, with the Central Government for the execu¬ 
tion of the said work and. therefore, he suffered from the said disqualification 
under section 9A of the Act and hence he was not fit to be chosen lo fill the 
parliamentary seat from the Constituency in question. It is further alleged 
that the findings of the Election Tribunal in the previous election petition 
No. 433 of 1957 decided on 27th October, 1S68, to the effect that there was such 
a subsisting contract; that the respondent suffered from the disqualification and 
that there was improper acceptance of the nomination paper of the respondent 
and confirmed by the High Court, in First Appeal No. 133 of 1958, operate as 
Nos judicata against the respondent in this case. It was also alleged that the 
respondent’s nomination paper was improperly accepted and the result of the 
election, in so far as, it concerns the returned candidate has been materially 
affected by such improper acceptance. Accordingly it was prayed that the elec¬ 
tion of the returned candidate i. e., respondent should be declared to be void 
under section 100 of the Act. 




SEC. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 4 ® ? 


5. The respondent denied that the said contract between him and the Central 
Government subsisted either on the date of the scrutiny of the nomination paper 
or the date of his election or that it subsists at present. Accordingly, he denied 
that he suffered any disqualification under section 9A of the Act or that he was 
not fit to be chosen to fill the said parliamentary seat. He also denied that 
the findings of the Election Tribunal in the previous election petition and confirmed 
by the High Court in appeal in connection with 1957-election operate as res 
judicata in 1967-election i.e •, the election in question. He has further denied 
that his nomination paper was improperly accepted or that the same has materially 
affected the result of the election. He assailed the petition as barred by time. 
Accordingly, he prayed that the election petition be dismissed. 

6. On these pleadings of the parties, the following issues were framed and 
tny findings thereon are as under:— 

Issues 

Findings 

(l )(a) Whether there still subsists a contract (repairing work of Rat¬ 
nawali Burj Fort), entered into by the respondent on 25 - 2-1954 
in the course of his trade and business with the Central Go¬ 
vernment for the execution of works undertaken by that Go¬ 
vernment as alleged by the petitioner ? 

Yes. 

•(b) Whether on this account he suffers disqualification under sec¬ 
tion 9 A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and 
whether, therefore, he was not qualified on the date of the 
scrutiny of the nomination papers for being chosen to fill the 
Parliamentary seat in question as alleged by the petitioner? 

Ye. 

Not qualified" 

■(c) Whether the respondent’s nomination paper was improperly 
accepted as alleged ? 

Yes. 

( 1 d) Whether the result of the election in so far as it concerns the 
returned candidate (respondent) has been materially affected 
by the improper acceptance of the nomination paper as alleged ? 

Election void. 

* 2 ) Whether the findings of the Election Tribunal in Election Petition 
No. 433 of 1957 decided on 27 - 10-1958 in connection with the 
1957 election to the effect that there was such a contract : that 
the respondent suffered from the disqualification and that there 
was improper acceptance of the nomination paper of the res¬ 
pondent and confirmed by the High Court in First Appeal No. 

133 of 1958 decided on 13 - 7-1959 operate as res]udicata in 
this case relatting to 1967 -election as alleged by the petitioner? 


( 3 ) Whether the petition is barred by time as alleged by the res¬ 
pondent ? 

No. 

( 4 ) Should the election of the respondent be declared to be void ? 

Yes. 

( 5 ) Relief ? 

Petition allowed 
and election 

declared void. 


Reasons for the findings 


7. Issues 1(a) and (b ).-—These are the main important issues in this case. 
The petitioner’s case is that the Government contract dated 25th February, 1954 
entered into by the respondent with the Central Government for the repairing work 
of the “Ratnawali Bur.i, Raises. Fore' still subsisted on the date of this election 
petition and, therefore, the respondent was disqualified under section 9A of the 
Act for being chosen as a member of the Lok Sabha from the constituency in 
question. ‘Disqualified’ as defined, in section 7(b) of this Act means disqualified 
for being chosen as, and for Joeing, a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or legislative Council of a State. Section 9-A says that 
a person shall be disqualified if, and for so long as, there subsists a contract en¬ 
tered into by him in the course of his trade or business with the appropriate 
Government for the supply of goods to, or for the execution of any works under¬ 
taken by, that Government. Section 100(1) (a) of the Act provides thal subject 
to the provisions of sub-section ( 2 ), if the High Court is of the opinion that on 
the date of his election a returned candidate was not qualified, or was disqualified, 



4688 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PA USA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


to be chosen to fill the seat under the Constitution or this Act or the Government 

In the presence of Shri. Counsel for the applicant, and of Shrl R. K- 

Vijayavargiya Counsel for the opposite party, the following order was passed by 
the Court: — 


8. It is not disputed that the respondent was in approved contractor at the 
relevant time, i.e„ 1954 being on the approved list of contractors maintained by the 
Government and that the contract In question was entered Into by him in the 
course of his trade or business- There is also no dispute that the Central Gov¬ 
ernment In the Archaeological Department was responsible for the execution of 
the repairing works in question undertaken by it and, threfore, it was the appro¬ 
priate Government. This Government has its Central Circle at Bhopal and the 
Raisen Fort of which the repairs in question were to be carried out Is situated 
In the territory of the erstwhile State of Bhopal- There is also no dispute about 
the proper form in which the contract in question was entered- Thus the parties 
are agreed on the two important conditions of Section 9-A of the Act, namely, 
that the respondent entered into the contract In question in the course of his 
trade or business with the appropriate Government for the repairing works in 
question undertaken by that Government. So the only question that now arises 
for our consideration is whether this contract subsisted on 23rd February, 1967 
when the respondent was declared elected to the Parliamentary seat from the 
Morena Reserved Lok Sabha Constituency No. 1. 


9- In his -case parties have examined one witness each and filed certain 
documents from the Government file relating to the repairing work of the 
"Ratnawali Burj,, Raisen Fort’' i.e. the contract in question, in support of their 
respective cases. The petitioner’s witness Shri K. M. Shrivastava (P-W. 1) Is the 
Deputy Superintendent Archaeologist, Archaeological Survey of India, Central 
Circle, Bhopal and he appeared with the files relating to the contract in question- 
He lias been posted as Deputy Superintendent Archaeologist at Bhopal since 
1st March, I960- His evidence with reference to the documents from the Gov¬ 
ernment files referred to above, shows that the contract in question entered into 
on 25th January, 1954 for Rs. 37,012 which was to be completed by the respondent 
within three months i.e., by 25th May, 1954 (as per Ex. P. 2 and P. ti was not 
completed up hi 27th August. 1959 (vide Ex. D.3>. A specific question was put 
t 0 him in the examination-in-chief whether he was in a position to state if the 
contract in question was fully completed by the respondent or not and his reply 
was that he was not posted at Bhopal at the relevant time but with reference 
to the Department’s letter dated 20th June. 1957 (Ex. P. 5), he could say that till 
20th June, 1957, the respondent had not completed the work and that whatever 
work he had executed was defective. A memorandum dated ith April, 1959 
(Ex P- ti) was issued from the office of the Superintendent and it shows that 
the‘respondent had deposited Rs. 1850 as security with the Government against 
the r-ontract in question and the witness has deposed that so far the said security 
has not been released- From the running bills in the flies relating to the contract 
In question, the witness stated that the Department paid Rs 27,656-9 upto 31st 
March, 1950 to the respondent for the part of the work 1 executed by him. 

10. In cross-examination, the witness was confronted with the letter (Ex. D. 1) 
dated 23rd July, 1958 issued from the office of the Director-General of Archaeology, 
New Delhi and he deposed that from the files he could say that the respondent 
did not seem to have executed the remaining part of the work in question after 
this letter (Ex. D. 1) He further deposed that the files brought by him do not 
show that any of the items given in the specification of the work (Ex. P. 4-B1 to 
he carried out have remained Incomplete except what has been stated in h 
letter dated 20th June, 1957 (Ex. P- 5). Further on he was confronted in cross- 
examination bv Ex. D 3, dated 27th August. 1959- This is a reply by the respondent 
to the Department’s letter dated 11th August. 1959 + In this letter, the respondent has 
clearly stated that “I want with all sincerity to finish the said work as early 
as possible Thus, it would be clear from this letter df’ the respondent that 

the contract in question had remained incomplete atleast till 27th August, 195^ 
and the respondent was keen to finish it as early as possible provided certain 
facilities were given to him by the Government. 


11. As against this evidence, the respondent Shri Alamdas (R.W. 1> luw deposed 
that he had fully and completely executed the contract In question re altog 
the repairing work of the "Ratnawali Burj, Raisen Fort in December, 1956 and 
thus he means to sav that the said contract was not subsisting after 1956. He 
Sts further deposedThat his name was struck off from the list of approved con- 
fmetftrVin 1957 and since then, he did not take anv contrart either from the 
Government of India or from any Government Department till May lor tfcp 
2SZ of any work In connection with the previous election petition, he 



XC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 4689 


was examined as a witness on 13th November, 1957 and his deposition recox’ded 
in that case is Ex- P, 10- The portion marked A to A in Ex. P. 10 is to the effect 
that the repairing of the “Ratnawali Burj” was not completed till then by him and 
that full payment was also not made to him. When he was confronted with his 
statement, he admitted haying made it but he tried to explain it by saying that 
in addition to the contractual work in question, he had executed other extra work 
and it was this extra work which had remained incomplete and, therefore, he said 
statement related to the non-completion of the extra work- It is true that the 
respondent had executed some extra work in addition to the contract in question 
during the year 1956-57 as would be clear from the Department’s letter (Ex. P. 5) 
daied 20th June, 1957 and also admitted by Shri K- M- Shrivastava (P-W. 1) but it is 
absolutely wrong to say that the portion marked A to A in Ex. P. 10 relates to the 
non-completion of the extra work. It is abundantly clear from this very portion 
that this admission relates to the non-completion of the contract in question, namely, 
the repairing work of the 'Ratnawali Burj’ For Raisen. Thus his own admission 
would establish that he had not completed the contract in quesion at least up to 
13th November, 1957 when he was examined in the previous election petition. 


12. He has also admitted before me that for the work which was executed 
by him in connection with the contract in question, he received the payment of 

about Rs.from the Department. This would also—establish that he had 

not fully executed and completed the contract in question because the said contract 
was for Rs. 37,012. Again he has admitted his application dated 27th August, 
1959 (Ext. D, 3) which relates to the contract in question and as already stated, 
in that application he has clearly admitted that he was prepared to finish the 
said work as early as possible provided certain facilities were given to him. 
Therefore, this document itself clearly establishes that till 27th August, 1959, the 
contract in question was not completed or fully performed by the respondent 
To the questions of the Court, he further admitted that neither he nor the Gov¬ 
ernment brought any action against each other In connection with the repairing 
work of the ‘Ratnawali Burj’ in question. He went on to say that even today 
he has .vet to receive about Rs. 10,000 or Rs. 12,000 from the Government in connec¬ 
tion with the contract in question and though he made repeated demands from 
the Government in writing, tiff 1957-58, he received no payment till today- He 
also admitted that he did not file any suit against the Government to recover the 
alleged balance. 

13- The substance of the evidence of these two witnesses coupled with the 
documents referred to above would show that the respondent had executed only 
a part of the work in connection with the contract in question entered into in 
1954 and that the said contract remained incomplete atleast till 27th August, 1959- 
It is also clear that his security deposit Rs. 1,850 against this work was not 
released by Government and that he did not receive it till today. Also he has not 
filed any completion certificate to show that the said contract was fully performed 
by him, On the basis of these facts and circumstances it can be said with defini¬ 
teness that atleast till 27th August, 1959 the respondent did not execute the full 
work and complete the contract in question. Then the question arises whether 
he completed the remaining part of the said contract at any time between 27th 
August, 1959 and the date of the filling off his nomination paper on 19th January, 
1967 or its scrutiny or the declaration of his election on 23rd February, 1967 
from the Constituency in question. Further his evidence shows that he has not 
received the balance about Rs- 10,000 from the Government till today in connection 
with the said contract. 

14- On behalf of the petitioner, Shri Ojha urged that on the very admission 
of the respondent himself that full payment had not been made by the Govern¬ 
ment till today, it must be held that the contract in question has not been fully 
discharged by performance an both sides and, therefore, the same is still subsisting 
today- In support he relied on Chaturhhuj Vithaldas Jasani v. Moreshwar Parasram 
and others (A.I R‘. 1954 S-C. 23GI and Laliteshwar Prasad Sahi v. Batashwar Prasad 
and others (A-I.R. 1966 S.C. 583) in which the above ruling was followed. The case 
of Chaturbhuj Vithaldas Jasani v. Moreshwar Parasram and others (su'pra) was 
decided under section 7(d) of the Act as it originally stood. In that case. Their 
I,ordships of the Supreme Court observed that “a contract for the supply of 
goods does not terminate when the goods are supplied; It continues in being till 
it is fully discharged by performance on both sides. It cannot be said that the 
moment a contract is fully executed on one side and all that remains is to receive 
payment from the other then the contract terminates and a new relationship of 
debtor and creditor takes its place”. This was followed in Laliteshwar Prasad Sahi 




4690 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II— 


v. Balexhwar Prasad and others (supra), which was decided under section 7(d) 
oi the Act as amended in 1958- In this case it was held that—- 

"A contract for the supply of goods or for the execution of any works or 
for the performance of any services undertaken does nth cease to subsist 
only because the goods had been supplied or work had been executed 
or services performed. It continues to subsist till payment is made 
and the contract Is fully discharged by performance on both sides.” 

In view of this authority, the respondent would have been at once out of Court 
if section 7(d) as amended in 1958 had not undergone a further change; and the 
change Is that this section has been replaced by section 9-A read with section 7(b) 
of the Act or by the recent amendment of 1966. In the new section 9-A, an 
explanation has been added to make it clear that a contract with the Government 
shall be deemed not to subsist by reason only of the fact that the Government 
has not performed its part of the contract either wholly or in part if the contract 
has been fully performed by the person by whom it has been entered into with 
the appropriate Government. It is common ground that the case in question is 
governed by this new section 9-A read with section 7(b) of the Act and the 
contention of the respondent is that he has fully performed his part of the 
contract- 

15, It wdulcl now be desirable to set out the old and the new statutory pro¬ 
visions on the point. The unamended section 7(d) as it originally stood was as 
under :— 

“7. A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, and for being, a 
member of either House o£ Parliament or the Legislative Assembly or 
Legislative Council of a State... 

(d) If, whether by himself dr by any person or body of persons m trust 
for him or for his benefit or on his account, he has any share or interest 
In a contract for the supply of goods to, or for the execution of any 
works or the performance of any services undertaken by the appropriate' 
Government-” 

As amended in 1958, the section read as under 

"7. A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, and for being, a, 
member of either House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly 
or Legislative Council of a State .. . 

(d) If there subsists a contract entered into in the course of his trade 
or business by him with the appropriate Government for the supply of 
goods to. or for the execution of any works undertaken by, that Gov¬ 
ernment’ 1 - 

As replaced in 1960 by sections 9-A and 7(b), these statutory provisions are¬ 
as under :— 

"9-A. A person shall be disqualified if, and for so long as, there subsists 
a contract entered Into by him in the course of his trade or business* 
with the appropriate Government for the supply of goods to, or for¬ 
th® execution of any works undertaken by, that Government- 

Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, where contract has been 
fully performed by the person by whom it has been entered into with 
the appropriate Government, the contract shall be deemed not to subsist 
by reason only of the fact that the Government has not performed its 
part of the contract either wholly or in part.” 

"7(b) ‘disqualified’ means disqualified for being chosen as, and for being 
a member of either House of Parliament or 1 of the Legislative Assembly 
or Legislative Council of a State.’’ 

16. A comparison of these statutory provisions renting to disqualification 
would clearly show that the said provisions have undergone substantial changes 
from time to time and these changes have been effected to avoid the difficulties 
to which a contracting party may be subjected- The language of section 7(d) 
as it originally stood which provided for the disqualification in case of contracts 
with the Government was wide and probably vague enough to bring any kind 
and category of contract within Its scope and the Parliament realised that It had 
been a fruitful source of election 'disputes in the past. The language was wide 
enough to Include even the persons who only occasionally broadcast any talk 
irom the Radio Station or contribute any article to any Government publication: 
and such persons may come within the mischief of that section- Accordingly . 



Sue, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23. 1%7/PAUSA 2, 1889 


section 7(d) was amended in 1958 in a simpler and more rational way so as to 
bring within its purview only two categories of contracts entered into by a person 
with the Government in the course of his trade or business and these two cate¬ 
gories were contracts for the supply of goods and contracts for the execution of 
any works. Even this change did not solve the case of a contractor, who has fully 
performed his part of the contract and Government did not perform its part 
either wholly or in part for one reason or the other. According to tho decisions 
in the above two Supreme Court rulings, under section 7(d) as originally stood 
or amended in 1958, the contract continued to subsist till payment was made and 
the contract was fully discharged by performance on both sides- 

17. The Parliament probably realised that an innocent contractor, who has 
fully performed his part of the contract should not be penalised if the Government 
did not perform its part- The dispute about the settlement of payment or actual 
payment by the Government to the Contractor may continue for years together; 
the amount involved may be even petty and in some cases payment may not be 
made or ordered till the life time of the contractors and in all these cases, the 
contractor who has fully performed his part of the contract would be disqualified 
to contest the election. There seemed no justification to penalise such an innocent 
party. Therefore, the explanation to section 9-A of the Act was added. The 
explanation says that for the purposes of this section (section 9-A) where a contract 
has been fully performed by the person by whom It had been entered into with 
the appropriate Government, the contract shall be deemed not to subsist by reason 
only of the fact that the Government has not performed its part of the contract 
either wholly or in part. The intention of the Legislature in adding this explanation 
is to avoid the rigour of the decisions in the two Supreme Court rulings referred 
to above- In view of this explanation, the learned counsel for the petitioner 
cannot avail of the decisions in the two Supreme Court rulings simply because, 
no full payment as claimed by the respondent has been made by the Government. 

18. Even then, the respondent is not out of the woods. In view ot the facts 
and circumstances of the case, he shall have to establish that the contract in 
question has been fully performed by him, if he wants to avail of the Explanation 
to section 9-A. Shrl Mishra, learned counsel for the respondent has urged before 
me that the respondent has fully performed his part of the contract and in the 
alternative he canvassed that the same was discharged bv the breach committed 
by the Government, in case it is found that the contract was not fully executed 
by the respondent According to him, by Ex. D. 1 dated 23rd July 1958, the 
Director General of Archaeology in India wrote t,j the Superintendent, Department 
of Archaeology, Central Circle, Bhopal that “the contractor should be told cate¬ 
gorically that he Is not to proceed with the work". In view of this, Shrt Mishra 
urged that the Government of India committed breach of the contract on 23rd 
July, -1958 and, therefore, the contract in question must be deemed to have been 
discharged c-n 23rd July, 1958 and hence there subsisted no contract between him 
and the Government either on the date of filing the nomination paper i.e. 19th 
January, 1967 or its scrutiny or the declaration of the election result on 23rd 
February, 1967. These contentions were repudiated by Shri Ojha, learned counsel 
for the petitioner. 

19. As already found, the statement of the respondent Shri Atamdas (R.W. 1) 
that he duly completed and fully performed the contract in question in Decem¬ 
ber, 1966, is utterly incorrect. It has further been found that the said contract 
was not completed by him even till 13th November. 1957, when he was examin¬ 
ed as a witness in the previous election petition case and he has suffered the 
finding in that case that the contract in question was subsisting even till 13th, 
November, 1957. This is not all. In his reply dated 27th August, 1959, (Ex. D. 
3), the respondent has clearly stated that— 

“I want with fill sincerity to finish the said work as early as possible. ’’ 

The words *to finish the said work’ are eloquent enough to establish that even 
till 2(th August, 1959, he had not fully performed the contract in question In 
view of all this, his statement that he has to relise a balance of about Rs. 10,000 
from the Government of India in connection with the contract In question is not 
true for the simple reason that he has not fully performed his part of the con¬ 
tract. The net result, therefore, is that atleast till 27th August, 1959, the res¬ 
pondent had executed only part of the work in connection with the contract in 
qaestion and that the said contract was not fully performed by him. 

theae cir cumstances, it was for him to show whether after 27th August, 
1939, he completed the remaining part of the work and if so when and in what, 
manner. The respondent has not adduced any oral or documentary evidence 






4691 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 28, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


nor is there any material on record to show that he completed the remaining 

¥ art of the work in question at any time till today after 27th August, 1959. In 
act, according to his evidence, the said contract was fully performed by him 
by December, 1958, and this has been found to be absolutely incorrect. Further, 
his tender (Ex. P, 2) which was accepted on behalf of the President of India in 
connection with the contract in question shows that he “agreed to abide by and 
fulfil all the terms and provisions of the conditions contained in the pamphlet 

named ‘General Directions and Conditions of Contract’.” and it further 

shows that all these terms and conditions were either read by him or explained 
to him. This pamphlet is in the relevant file of the Government, which is be¬ 
fore me and it bears the respondent's signature. It has been marked as ‘ X- by 
me. The endorsement thereon shows that it was proved in the previous election 
petition. Among other conditions, the said pamphlet provides ‘that the con¬ 
tractor shall complete the work within the stipulated time and if that is not 
done, then time may be extended for such completion on reasonable grounds; if 
the work executed is bad, imperfect or unskilful, the contractor shall be liable 
to remove this defect and in certain cases he shall also be liable to pay com¬ 
pensation in case of bad work; requiring the removal of defects from such im¬ 
perfect or unskilful work will not be considered as an admission of the due 
performance of the contract’. It also provides that ‘on completion of the work, 
the contractor shall be furnished with a final certificate. It further stipulates 
that in case of breach of any of the conditions of the contract, the Government 
will have option to adopt any of the courses mentioned therein including the 
course to rescind the contract and the security deposit of the contractor shall' 
be forfeited. In case, a final certificate has been furnished to the contractor, 
then his security deposit shall be released and refunded to him. 

21. In the present case, the respondent has not filed any final certificate in 
token of having fully performed the contract in question nor there is any evi¬ 
dence on record to show that the certificate was furnished to tire respondent till 
today. It is also on record that the security deposit of Rs. 1,850 in connection 
with the contract in question has not been refunded to the respondent so far nor 
is there any material on record to show that Government forfeited it. Also para¬ 
graph 2 of Ex. D. 5, dated 20th June, 1957. from the Superintendent of the Bhopal 
Office to the Director General, New Delhi, in connection with the work in Ques¬ 
tion, shows that— 

“the work which is still incomplete was inspected by the Archaeological 
Engineer during 1957, and found to be defective. In view of his 
adverse comments, further work was discontinued and the work 
is still incomplete, 

At the end of this document, the Superintendent also wrote that— 

“the contractor on the other hand is very keen to finish the work and re¬ 
quests for further instructions.’’ 


We have seen above that the respondent did not complete the work in ques¬ 
tion and remove the defects atlcast till 27th August, 1959, and he has adduced, 
no evidence to show that these defects were removed and the work was complet¬ 
ed at any time till today after 27th August, 1959. All these facts coupled with 
the facts that the respondent did not file the final certificate and non-refund of 
his security deposit clearly establish that till today the work in connection with 
the contract in question has not been completed by him. In other words he has 
not fuUy performed his part of the contract till this day. Accordingly it follows 
that the contract in question was subsisting all along including on the date on 
which the election result of the Constituency in question was declared 


22. It was however, urged by respondent’s learned counsel that the said con¬ 
tract was discharged by rescission and came to an end on 23rd July 1958 when 
the Government committed the breach. The argument is that the respondent 
was iceen tci perform the remaining part of the contract as indicated in Ex. P. 5 
rim™ T i^ ne ' 1 ? 57 ’ , in which the Bhopal Office communicated to the Delhi 

5'™,'“® + the contractor on the other hand is very keen to finish the work and 
furth ™ instructions ’ That after this, the Delhi Office wrote to tho 
Bhopal Office on 23rd July, 1958, as per Ex, D. 1 that_ 

the coffiractor ^should be told categorically that he is not to proceed with 

itHiSh ^kL H? sis C t f thes ™ t] 70 - statements, it was urged that the Government com- 
and rescandegho on 23r d July 1958; that the respondent accepted this breach 
ana rescinded the contract and thus the contract was discharged by breach and 





■Sec. “3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 4693 


came to an end on 23rd July, 1968. Accordingly, it was contended that the con¬ 
tract in question was not subsisting on any of the relevant dates in this case and 
•hence the respondent did not suffer from the disqualification under section 9A 
rend with section 7(b) of the Act. In support, he relied on Gaunshankar Shastn 
'V. Mayadhardas (1959 J.L.J, 10), 

23 This contention, at the very outset, suffers from some serious infirmities 
-and drawbacks. It is hardly needful to say that rescission must be pleaded defi¬ 
nitely, clearly and in unequivocal terms. Repudiation by one part standing alone 
•does not terminate the contract. It takes two to end it, by repudiation on the 
•one side and acceptance of the repudiation on the other. The party relying on 
rescission must expressly plead the manner in which and the date on which one 
party repudiated the contract, the date and the manner when and in which such 
repudiation was communicated to the other party; whether the other party 
accepted such repudiation and if so when and in what manner and 
ft is then that, the other party is usually said to rescind the contract. 
Section 62 of the Indian Contract Act says that if the parties to the contract agree 
to substitute a new contract for it, or to rescind or alter it, the original contract 
need not be performed. This is not all. The rescission of the contract has to be 
■communicated and this should be done in the manner as provided by section 66 
•of the Indian Contract Act. When all these conditions and essentials are com¬ 
plied with then the original contract comes to an end. The sarhe conclusion 
■would flow from Gaurlshankar's cane (supra) relied on by the learned counsel 
■for the respondent where in paragraph 9 of the said authority, their Lordships 
observed as under: — 

“A contract is discharged in various ways. One of such ways is the 
discharge of the contract by performance. One other way in which 
the contract is discharged is by breach by one of the parties and the 
rescission of the contract on accepting the breach by the other. That 
there are claims arising from or under the contract does not show that 
the contract itself is subsisting.’’ 

24. Almost the same thing has been stated at page 160 of Halsbury’s Laws of 
England, Third edition. Volume 8 , where the methods of discharge of contracts 
have been discussed in paragraph 274. It is as under: — 

"274. Four principal methods .—There are four modes in which a contract 
may be discharged: ( 1 ) by agreement; ( 2 ) by performance, where 
all that the promisor undertook to do has been performed; (3) in 
certain cases where the promisor; (4) by breach, where the promisor 
has failed to perform his promise and the other party elects to treat 
the contract at an end. In addition a contract may be extinguished 
by statute.” 

Here in this case, the respondent’s counsel relies on method No. 4 urging that 
the original contract had been discharged by rescission of the contract on accept¬ 
ing the breach. 

25. In the present case, the respondent has not at all pleaded rescission in his 
written statement nor has he given any of the particulars of such a rescission on 
which now his counsel wants to rely. As already stated, the pleadings of the 
respondent on the point of rescission should have been definite, express, clear and 
unequivocal so that the other party were not taken by surprise but lie has not 
pleaded anything like that at all. It is now an established law that the Court is 
called upon to decide that ease which has been pleaded and so it cannot travel 
beyond the pleadings. If it were to do so, this would expose it to the charge that 
ft has made out altogether a new case for a party which is not permissible in law. 
That being so, the contention that the original contract came to an end by rescis¬ 
sion has to be rejected. 


. f? 5 ' 4 . T ! ier ? 1S « nother aspect of the case. The ease of the respondent himself 

Is that he has fully performed his part of the contract by executing the enl're 
work in question by December, 1956. He never says that he performed only! 
part of the contract and the remaining part of it was rescinded by him, So his 
case is of full performance of the contract in question. It is the case of his 
counsel at the time of the argument that the contract was rescinded on accepting 
the breach and thus it was discharged on 23rd July, 1958. Such a position cannot 
be accepted and specially so when there are no pleadings whatsoever on the point. 

. 27. There is still another aspect of the case Assuming that the law of plead¬ 

ings can be ignored on the point of rescission, let us see if the case of the respon- 
dent is, m any way, bettered in view of the material that has come on record. 



4694 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II— 


The main plank of the argument of the respondent's counsel is that the statement 
to the effect that— 

"the contractor should be told categorically that he is not to proceed with 
work.” 

is a clear repudiations of the contract and, therefore, the Government has com¬ 
mitted the breach on 23rd July 1958 and the contract came to an end on this day 
by—recission. In my opinion, this statement does not amount to repudiation of 
the contract on the part of the Government nor it can be said that the Govern¬ 
ment has refused to perform its promise. It is on record that part of the work 
which the respondent had executed was defective- The defects had not been re¬ 
moved in.-pite of instructions from time to time. It is very likely that the 
Engineers of the Government had to give instructions to the respondent on the 
spot about the particulars of the bad work and the manner in which the defects 
were to be removed. To this effect some indication can be had from the res¬ 
pondent's own reply dated 27th August 1959 (Ex.D-3). Accordingly, by merely 
asking the respondent not to proceed with the work, in such circumstances, 
would not amount to repudiation cf the contract by the Government or refusal 
to perform its part. 

28- Even if we assume that this v. as tantamount to repudiation then the ques¬ 
tion is whether such repudiation was communicated by the Government to the 
respondent and whether the letter accepted it as a breach of the contract. It is 
clear that the two statements referred to in ExP.5 dated 20th June 1957 and 
Ex-D 1 dated 23rd July 1958 relied upon by respondent’s counsel, were exchanged 
between the Bhopal Office and the Delhi Office and not between these offices and 
the respondent- Therefore, it shouid have been established that the alleged re¬ 
pudiation or breach was communicated by either 4 of these offices to the respondent, 
but there is not .an iota of evidence on record to establish such communication 
to the respondent. Even if we were to rely on the presumption arising out of sec¬ 
tion 114(e) of the Indian Evidence Act that official acts have been regularly per¬ 
formed and thus presume that the Bhopal Office had communicated the said 
repudiation or breach to the respondent even then his case is not improved- As 
already stated, it must be shown that the respondent had accepted the said 
repudiation as breach of the conirac* and again there is not an iota of evidence 
cm record to establish that the respondent accepted it as a breach. Even if he 
accepted it as a breach, the matter does not end here. He had to communicate 
his acceptance of the breach to the Government as contemplated by section 66 
of the Indian Contract Act and on this point also, there is as evidence whatsoever 
on record to show that he communicated his acceptance of the said breach. All 
these facts taken collectively fail to establish that the respondent nad accepted 
the alleged repudiation as breach of the contract in question and that he had 
rescinded the said contract. Accordingly, it cannot be said that the contract was 
treated as discharge by breach. 

29. This is not all. The entire superstructure sought to be raised at the time 
-of the argument on the ground of rescission is totally demolished by the respon¬ 
dent's own reply dated 27-8-1959 (Ex. D.-3). This document was brought on 
record by the respondent's counsel. Assuming that the statement in Ex.D.-l dated 
23rd July 1958 that the respondent should be told not to proceed with the work, 
amounts to repudiation of the contract on the part of the Government (or that the 
Government had refused to reform its promise) subsequently the respondent ex¬ 
pressly stated in Ex. D-8 dated 27th August 1959 that— 

“I want all sincerity to finis]■ the said work as early as possible-'’ 

These words clearly signify that he did not accept that repudiation as breach 
of the contract and did not put an end to it but on the other hand they signify 
his acquiescene in its continuance Section 39 of the Indian Contract Act pro¬ 
vides that— 

“When a party to a contract has refused to perform or disabled himself 
from performing, his promise in its entirety, the promisee may put 
an end to the contract, unless he has signified, by words or conduct, 
his acquiescence in its continuance.” 

As already stated the respondent, by words in Ex. D. 3, dated 27th August, 1959. 
had signified his acauiescence in the continuace of the original contract is 
therefore, it clearly follows that he did not put an end to the said contract. 



Wc. 3(ii)] THE GA/ET'I E OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, I88'l 


4695 


30. For all these reasons, the contention raised for the first time during the 
course of the argument that the contract in question was performed as discharg¬ 
ed by breach is rejected. 

31. Ex. D. 4 dated 22nd June, 1967, whi*h is a letter by the Superintendent 
of the Bhopal Office to the respondent simply shows that the respondent’s name 
io not in jist of approved contractors since February 1957 and that no work had 
beers assigned to him for execution since then. This is of no avail to the res¬ 
pondent because m the present case, we are concerned with the contract in 
question entered into by him in 1954 and not of any other contract either in 1957 
or thereafter. 

32. I am conscious of the cases in which neither party has insisted on the 
performance of the contract for an inordinate length of time and in such eases, 
it may be said that the parties have mutually abandoned the contract. In such 
a case, the contract may be treated as terminated or discharged by abandon¬ 
ment but a party relying on abandonment must expressly plead and give its 
particulars. I make it clear that at the time of the argument, the learned counsel 
for the petitioner did not canvas in this case that there was mutual abandon¬ 
ment or the contract in question by the parties. Even, had this ground been 
urged, it would not have been accepted for various reasons. Firstly because the 
petitioner has not specifically pleaded any such abandonment in his written state¬ 
ment; secondly because the respondent himself stated in the witness box that 
he fully performed the contract and executed the work in question completely 
by December, 19-56; and thirdly because the contract entered into on 25th Febru¬ 
ary, 1954. was to be fully completed within three months and yet it was com¬ 
pleted only in part by August 1959 i-e- during the period of about 66 months 
and the remaining part remained incomplete. As already stated, there is not 
an iota of evidence on record to show that the respondent completed the remain¬ 
ing part at any time between August 1959 and the date of this petition filed on 
10;n April, 1967. There is also no evidence on record that during this period, 
the parlies to the conlract had mutually abandoned it. If a contract to be com¬ 
pleted in three montns could not be completed by August 1959 and so it was 
stili subsisting then, (here is nothing surprising if the respondent could not 
complete it by 1967 with the result that it is still subsisting even now. There¬ 
fore, had the contention regarding abandonment been raised at the time of the 
argument bv the learned counsel for the respondent, that would have been of 
no'avail to him in the circumstances of this case and in the face of the material 
and evidence that has come on record. 

33. To conclude, it must be held that the respondent did not fully perform the 
contract in question (repairing work of ‘Ratnawali’, Raisen Fort) entered into 
by him on 25th February, 1954, till today and that the same has not been termi¬ 
nated or discharged in any of the manners known to law. I, therefore, hold 
that the said contract subsisted on the date of the filing of the nomination paper 
or. 19th January, 1967 and its scrutiny and also on 23rd February, 1967, when 

the election result of ,l -.'■ !l .- in question was declared. In fact, it 

subsides even today. . • suffers from the disqualification under 

section 9A read with S« , •. Act and, therefore, he was not qualified 

or was disqualified for being chosen to fill the parliamentary seat in question. 
Accordingly, I decide issues 1(a) and (b) in the affirmative. 

34. Issue No. 1(c).—In view of my above finding, it is clear that respondent’s 
nomination paper was improperly accepted and so I decide this issue in the 
affirmative. 

35. Issue No. 1(d).—The disqualification as contemplated by section 9A read 
with section 7(b) of the Act is absolute because such a disqualification is itself 
one of the grounds for declaring the election of a returned candidate to be void 
under section 100(1) (a) of the Act. As the respondent in this case, who is the 
returned candidate, suffered from this disqualification on the relevant date or 
dates, his election shall have to be declared as void and, therefore, the question 
that the election of the returned candidate was materially affeted by improper 
acceptance of the nomination paper would, in fact, be irrelevant. I decide this 
issue accordingly. 

36. Issue No. 2. —The learned counsel for the petitioner did not address any 
arguments on this issue at the time of the argument and, therefore, this ground 
must be deemed to have been given up and quite rightly. The facts and cir- 
eumstances as existing in 1957 at the time of the previous election, on the basis 
of which the respondent was held to be suffering from disqualification under 
section 7(d) of the Act as unamended, are liable to change during the period, 
of the years v/hen the present election 1967 was held. A contract between the 



^4696 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Par: II- 


contractor and the Government may subsist on the relevant dates in 1957 but 
such state of affairs may or may not exist in 1967 on account of the changes in 
between, and, therefore, what was decided m the previous petition on the basis 
of those facts may or may not hold good in 1967 because of the change in the 
circumstances. In fact, there was substantial change regarding the statutory 
provision relating to disqualification. As already stated, section 7(d) as origi¬ 
nally stood was amended in 1958 and again in 1966. It was replaced by sections 
9A and 7(b) of the Act with the addition of the explanation appended to Sec¬ 
tion 9lA, the effect of which is to remove the rigour of the two Supreme Court, 
rulings cited above. Such being the position, I hold that the findings reached 
in the previous election petition in connection with 1957 election would not 
operate as res judicata in this case relating to 1967 election- I, therefore, decide 
this issue in the negative, 

37. Issue No. 3.—At the time of the argument, the learned counsel for Ihe 
respondent did not press this issue and quite rightly. The election petition was 
filed on 10th April, 1967, while the election result was declared on 23rd Febru¬ 
ary, 1967. Thus, it was filed on the 46th day. But 9th April, 1967, was a Sunday 
which has to be excluded. Accordingly, it was filed within 45 days from the 
date of the election of the returned candidate as required by Section 31 of the 
Act and, therefore, it was within time. Hence I decide this issue in the nagative 

38. Issue No. 4.—The respondent was not qualified or was disqualified under 
the Act for being chosen to fill the parliamentary seat in question and, therefore, 
on this ground his election shall be declared to be void. I decide this issue in 
the affirmative. 

39. Issue No. 5.—In the result, the petition is allowed. The respondent 
suffered from the disqualification under Section 9A read with Section 7(b) of 
the Act on the date of his election and in fact he still suffers from the said dis¬ 
qualification even today because the Government Contract entered into by him 
with the Central Government still subsists. Accordingly, his election from the 
Morena—Reserved Lok Sabha constituency No. 1 of the State of Madhya Pradesh 
Is declared to be void under Section 98 read with Section 100(1) (a) of the Act. 
The respondent shall pay the costs of the petitioner and bear his own. Counsel’s 

...tee Rs, 250 for each side, if certified. 

(Sd.) M, A, Razzaque, Judge. 

23-10-67 
[No. 82 'MP/43/67.] 

New Delhi, the 20 th November 1967 

so, 4465—In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation nf the Peovde 
Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the orders pronounced on 
the 29th August, 1967 and 25th October, 1967. by the High Court of Madhya 
Pradesh, Indore Bench, Indore, in Election Petition No. 23 of 1967, 

HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH, INDORE 
Election Petition No. 23 of 1967 

Babulal s/o Ganesh Ram, R/o Ghayaraspur, P.O. Ghayaraspur, Distt. Vidisha— 
Applicant 

Vs. 

1. Shiv Sharma s/o Ramprasad, R/o 9-A, Bomanjee Petit Road, Bombay No. 26. 

2. Shambhusingh s/o Bheronsingh of Haveli. 

3. Hlralal Pipal s/o Ramlal, R/o Chanak Maxg, Vidisha, 

4. Krishin Kumar Nuttan s/o Hazarilal, P.O, Kurwai. 

5. Mangalslngh s/o Dayasingh, R/o Akodiya, P.O. Dehri, Teh. SIronp 

6. Kundanlal s/o Mannoo, M.L.A., P.O. Gairatganj. 

7. Darshansingh s/o Khumansingh, R/o Bans Pipliya. 

Names of Respondent No. 2 to 7 struck of vide order dated, 25th August 1967. 

Application for calling to the Election of Shri Shiv Sharma s/o Ram Prasad 
'Front L,A. Vidisha Parliamentary Constituency No. 29 (Lok Sabha). Election 
Petition u/s 80-A and 100 &101 of Representation of the People Act, 1951. 

Petition presented by Shri Babulal s/o Ganeshram Counsel for applicant on 
7th April 1967. The application coming on for final hearing on 29-8-67 befoie the 





Sec, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 33, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 4697 


Honourable Shri Justice V, R. Newaskar and the Honourable Shri Justice ...... 

in the presence of Shri. .. .Counsel for the applicant, and. of Shri R.K. Vljayavargiya 
Counsel for the opposite party, the following order was passed by the Court:— 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH BENCH, INDORE 

Election Petition No. 23 of 1967 

. .CORAM:—The Hon’ble Shri V. R, Newaskar, J. 
Babulal V. Shiv Sharma 


ORDER 

The petitioner as well as his counsel are absent even today. They were absent 
on 25th August, 1967. No application has been submitted on behalf of the peti¬ 
tioner explaining the reason for the absence of himself or his counsel on 25th 
August, 1967. No application is submitted setting out the reasons for today’s 
absence. 

Question for consideration, under these circumstances, is whether I should dis¬ 
miss the petition for default. 

A Division Bench of this Court in the case reported in A.I.R. 1958, Madhya Pra¬ 
desh 260 Sunderlal V. Nandramdas has taken the view that although the Repre¬ 
sentation of the People Act does not confer specific power upon the Court to dismiss 
a petition for default yet it is axiomatic that no Court or tribunal is supposed 
to continue a proceeding before it when the party who 1ms moved it has not 
appeared nor cared to remain present. The dismissal therefore in „uch cases 
can be made under an inherent power which every tribunal possesses and no 
express ,jrevision in ihe Act was necessary to empower the Court to make such 
an order of dismissal for default. This view, no doubt, is dissented from in a 
Division Bench decision of Allahabad High Court in the case reported in A.I.R. 
1964 Allahabad 181 Vishvanath V. Malkhan Singh. 

1 may observe that it is some what incongruous that an election-petition 
once submitted cannot be withdrawn by the petitioner without the leave of the 
Court nor can an election-petition come to an end by the death of the petitioner 
but it can come to an end by mere absence of the petitioner. The principle 
underlying the specific provision in the Representation of the People Act requir¬ 
ing notices to be given to all concerned in the cases of withdrawal and death 
suggest that once the machinery regarding an election-petition is sol in motion 
It ought not to come to an end cither because the petitioner does not want to 
continue and seeks to withdraw or because of the death and that every elector 
and anv other candidate concerned may, if he chooses, continue the proceedings. 
The ultimate idea is to see that the election ought not to be allowed to be sullied 
by any practices which are improper. If a petition cannot be withdrawn without 
the leave of the Court and cannot come to an end in that manner how can it 
be brought to an end bv means of a simple conduct on the part of the petitioner 
in remaining absent. However as the matter at present stands I am bound by 
the Division Bench decision ( A.I.R. 1958 Madhya Pradesh 260—supra—). 

I would, therefore, direct the dismissal of the petition for default. 

The respondent shall be paid half of this cost incurred thus far. Counsel's 
fee shall be taxed at Rs. 250. 

Date ri the 29 th of Avgust. 1967. (Sd-) V. R. Newaskar, 

Lakkad. Judge. 


HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH, INDORE 
Miscellaneous Civil Case No. 1 or 1967 
Applicant Opposite Parly 

Baboolu’ S./o Ganeshrsin, R/o Gyaraspur, Vs. Shiv Sharma S/o Rampiasnd. 
Dish. Vidisha. R/o Bombay, 


App!i" 3 U 0 n for Restoration u/o 9 R. 9 See. 151 C P C. read with Sec- 87 of 
R.P. Act for Restoration of E.P. 23/67 (Babulal V Shiv Sharma ) dismissed on 
29th August, 1967. by this Court. 



4698 THE GAZETTE OE INDIA ; DECEMBER 23, 19G7/PAIJSA 2, 1889 [Pari 11- 


Pelilion presented by Shri S. G. Mandloi, Counsel for applicant, on . 

The application coming on for final hearing on 5th October, 1967, before the 
Honourable Shri Justice V. E, Nevaswar, and the Honourable Shri Justice . 
in the presence of Shri Bhachawat & Y. I. Mehta, Counsel for the applicant, and 
of Shri R. K. Vijayavargiya Counsel for the opposite party, the following order 
was passed by the Court:— 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH BENCH, INDORE 
Miscellaneous Civil Case No. 1 of 1967 (E.P,) 

CORAM:—The Hon’ble Shri V. R, Ncwaskar, J. 

Babulal V. Shiv Sharma- 


ORDER 

This is an application for restoration of an election petition which was dis¬ 
missed for default for failure of the petitioner to appear on two successive dates 
of hearing namely 25th August, 1967 and 29th August, 1967, The order for 
dismissal was passed on 29th August, 1967, after hearing arguments addressed 
to me on behalf of the respondent, I had my doubts about the propriety of dis¬ 
missing an election petition for default. Therefore on 25th August, 1967. Mr. 
Vijayvargiya counsel for the respondent was told to be ready on 29th August, 
1967, to argue the point as to whether such a petition can be dismissed for 
default. On 29tli August, 1167, Mr. Vijayvurgiya argued that point and relied 
upon the decision of the Division Bench of this Court reported in A.T.R. 1958, 
Madhya Pradesh 260 Sunderlal IT Nandramdas, which took the view Ilia) the 
election Tribunal dealing with the election petition under the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951, has inherent power to dismiss such a petition for default. 
I assumed therefore that the High Court too like-wise has such power on the 
reasoning in that case. Since there is such a power to dismiss an election 
petition for default as held in that case, a corresponding power to restore such 
a petition, if sufficient cause is shown by the petitioner for his absence, should 
be taken to vest in this Court. The inherent power, being the residuary power, 
has to be exercised on consideration of the evidence adduced on behalf of the 
petitioner for his absence together with the entire circumstances of the case 
including the diligence shown by the petitioner or otherwise in prosecuting the 
petition. 

The petitioner in this petition for restoration alleged that he had filed this 
election petition in the High Court at Jabalpur which was directed to be heard 
in the High Court Bench at Indore but that he had received no intimation about 
such transfer from the High Court at Jabalpur and that the petitioner conse¬ 
quently had no knowledge about any dales fixed in this case. According to the 
petitioner he had appointed Mr. Paonikar as his counsel to conduct this election 
petition. Mr. Paonikar returned the papers of the case to the petitioner and he 
tried to contact him but could not see him personally. He then went to Indore, 
engaged Mr Mehta as his counsel and inspected the record of the case in the 
High Court at Indore. He then came to know that the petition had been dis¬ 
missed for default on 29t.h August, 1997. The petitioner says that he had no 
knowledge about the date 29th August, 1967 as the date in the case nor of any 
Mate of hearing fixed at Indore. He therefore did not appear on that day. 
Mr. Paonikar also did not appear as he had returned the papers to the petitioner 
earlier. The petitioner sought restoration firstly on the ground that the petition 
had not been fixed for hearing on 29th August. 1967 and further that at any rate 
there was sufficient cause for his absence on 29th August. 1967. as he had no 
knowledge about the case being heard by the High Court at Indore. An affida¬ 
vit in support of these allegations was filed by the petitioner. 

The respondent opposed the petition denying 1 that the petitioner had no 
notice about the petition being heard by the High Court Bench at Indore. The 
petitioner’s counsel Mr, Paonikar had appeared at Indore on several dates of 
hearing and consequently it could not be contended by the Petitioner that he 
had not notice about the hearing of the case at Indore. Neither the petitioner 
nor his counsel Mr. Paonikar appeared on an earlier date i.e. 25th August, 1967, 
as well when the Court heard argument on the question of propriety of joining 
respondents No. 2 to 7 when those respondents had no concern with the parlia¬ 
mentary constituency of VTdisha. 

As to the contention that 29th August, 1967. was not the date fixed for hearing 
it is said by the respondent that every date fixed in the election petition is a 
date fixed for hearing and it was so mentioned in the cause-list of that date. 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 4699 


It is also contended by the respondent that the petitioner took no interest in the 
progress of the case throughout and appeared to be fighting some one else’s 
battle. Existence of sufficient cause for the absence of the petitioner both on 
25th August, 1967 and 29th August, 1967, was denied. 

As to the competency of a petition for restoration of an election petition 
dismissed for default it is already held above that such a petition is competent. 

First question to be considered in view of the submissions is whether there 

was sufficient cause for the absence of the petitioner on 25th August 1967 and 

29th August, 1967? 

'As to this the petitioner’s contention is that he had presented the petition 
in the High Court at Jabalpur and had engaged Mr. Paonikar as his counsel. 
He had received no intimation either from the High Court at Jabalpur or from 

Mr. Paonikar about the order of the High Court to the effect that the petition 

would be heard at Indore. He had therefore no knowledge either of the Sates 
of hearing fixed at Indore or what took place on those dates. 

In my opinion this contention of the petitioner is without substance. Mr. 
Paonikar did appear for the petitioner on 20th April, 1: 67, when the case was 
first put up for hearing in the High Court at Jabalpur which passed the order 
that the petitioner would thereafter be heard in the High Court Bench at Indore. 
Notice to the counsel is notice to the party. The petitioner therefore has to be 
assumed to have notice of the fact that the petition would be heard m the 
High Court at Indore. 

After the case was taken up for hearing at Indore an amendment petition 
was filed on behalf of the petition, which was heard on 17th July, 1967. Mr. 
Paonikar appeared for the petitioner. On the next date i.e. 27th July, 1967, 
written statement to the main election petition was filed on behalf of the res- 
dent No. 1. The case then was fixed for 3rd August, 1967, on which aale the 
petition for amendment filed on behalf of the petitioner was allowed and the 
noinirmoi- directed to make necessary amendments as per order of the 

, ■■■ , he same on or before 8th August, 1967. On this date i.e. on 

* " ■' , Mr. Paonikar was present. There was no compliance with 

■ the Court to make the amendment. It was ordered on that 

date *' ‘ - • 1 ’ ’ ' heared on 17th August. 1967. upon ihe question 

wh- ’ 1 No. 2 to 7 was justified. He was turther required 

to o. 1 ■ 1 ier. Arguments were then heard on 25th August, 

196" . ■ ;e on 17th August. 1967 and the case was directed 

to be adjourned to 25th August. 1907, under the orders ol the Deputy Registrar, 
dated 17th August, 1967. On that date neither Mr. Paonikar nor the petitioner 
were present. Arguments on behalf of the respondents were heard and order 
was dictated on Board holding that joinder ol respondents No. 2 to 7 was im¬ 
proper and that those respondents should be struck off the record. The case 
was fixed for carrying out necessary amendments as per this and earlier order. 
I had my doubts as to whether an election netition could be dismissed for 
default. Therefore the counsel for the respondent was told on 25th Augusb 1967 
to be ready with that question on 29th August, 1967. On this da’e also neither 
the petitioner nor his counsel were present. Arguments of the counsel for the 
respondents were heard who relied upon the Division Bench decision of this 
Court reported in A.I.R. 1958, Madhya Pradesh 260 (supra) that such :■ pedtion 
could be dismissed for default. This Court considered the question and' parsed 
an order dismissing the petition for default. 

It is thus plain from these proceedings that f he cour-el who held VakrI rT .,ama 
signed by the petitioner did participate in ihe proceedings at Indore upfj 8th 
August, 3 967. The petitioner therefore ranno,. contend that he hid 00 s.otice 
of the case being heard in the High Court Eencb at Indore. According to the 
statement of the petitioner in Court as also according to h: S rfficavit he tame 
to know that the hearing of his election petition was going on at Jndcre when 
Mr. Paonikar returned his papers under a registered envelope ei’her by :7th. 
or 19th of August, 1967. He then went to Bhopal about 4 or 5 days later *3 see 
Mr. Paonikar who used to stay in the Circuit-house at Bhopal He cud not 
meet him there. So he returned home and after a fortnight he vmnt to Indore 
-to enquire about the case. According to him right from 10th or 11th of April, 
1967, when he had gone to Jabalpur to file Ihe election netition uoto the time 
'he received the registered envelope on the 17th or 19th of August, ‘1967, he had 
no occasion to contact Mr. Paonikar. Subsequent to the last mentioned date he 
bad not seen him. He had written two letters to Mr. Paonikar in the month 
of June 1967 with an interval of a fortnight on his address at Nagpur but those 
letters remained unreplied. He thereupon felt anxious about the case, He 



4700 the cazette of india: December 23, 1967/pausa 2 , 1889 [Part 11 — 


suggested that Mr, Paonikar had agreed to settle the account of bis fees at any¬ 
time he would meet the petitioner- The petitioner admitted that even on receipt 
of the envelope containing the file of his case he did not feel it necessary to see 
Mr. Paonikar, settle his fees and secure his presence in the case. It is thus plain 
that the petitioner did not care about the case at all after submitting his election 
petition at Jabalpur until he came to Indore subsequent to the dismissal of the 
petition and saw Mr. Mehta before 15th September, 1967, by which date the 
petition for restoration was submitted. The entire conduct of the petitioner 
shows that he had shown no care or diligence in prosecuting his election petition. 
Right from the date when he submitted his election petition he had hardly any 
real contact with the counsel, he is supposed to have engaged. He meets Mr. 
Paonikar, a lawyer of Nagpur, at Jabalpur. According to him he engaged him: 
on daily fees. In such a case it is highly improbable that he would have nO' 
contract at all with Mr. Paonikar during the entire course of hearing of the case 
at Indore or even later on until the time he submitted a petition for restora¬ 
tion. His conduct reveals at least want of care and diligence if not something 
else as suggested by the counsel for the opponent namely that somebody else was 
really fighting through him. According to him when two of his letters sent by 
him on his (Mr. Paonikar’s) Nagpur address remained unreplied he felt anxious 
about his petition. It is curious and not easily believeable that even then he 
did not consider it necessary to go to Nagpur to see Mr. Paonikar whose home- 
address he knew. He also did not take particular care to send his fees which, 
according to him, were fixed on daily basis. Further when Mr, Paonikar sent 
back his papers in a registered envelop he tried to see him at the Circuit House 
at Bhopal and when he did not meet him there he returned home and remained 
there for about a fortnight. This confirms the view taken by me earlier that 
the petitioner’s conduct throughout showed want of care and diligence. When 
the case was fixed first on 8 th August, 1967, Mr. Paonikar, counsel engaged by 
the petitioner, was present and in his presence the case was fixed for hearing 
on 17th August, 1967 and then on 25tli August, 1967, Of these dales the peti¬ 
tioner’s counsel will bo deemed to have notice of the hearing. The petitioner 
consequently will be deemed to have notice. It is not easy to accept the peti¬ 
tioner’s statement that although Mr. Paonikar returned his papers without any 
covering letter yet he believed that he would attend his case. I am, therefore, 
of the view that there was no sufficient cause shown by the petitioner for his 
absence either on 25th August, 1907 or 29lh August, R'67. 

The second point raised on behalf of the petitioner is that neither 25th 
August. 1967, nor 29th August. 1267, was a date fixed for hearing. It was a date 
fixed merely for eilecling’ amendment as per earlier order and under Chapter 
2 Rule Ixv) cf the Madhya Pradesh High Court Manual this could have been 
done in the office of I he Deputy Registrar. 

In Ihe first place it is. not correct to sav that the cose was not fixed for hearing 
On 25th August, 1967 and 29th August, 1967. In the second place Rule (xv) has 
no application in the present context as firstly that. Rule empowers the Registrar 
and not the Deputy Registrar to require any petition, application etc., to he 
amended in accordance with the procedure and practice of the Court. In the 
present case the Registrar was not there and even the Deputy Registrar did not 
require the petitioner in exercise of his own power to make any amendment 
of a petition etc. 

Tire third contention is that the case was not fixed for hearing. Only thing 
that was to he done was to make amendment. This, as already observed, is not 
correct. If either Mr. Paonikar or the petitioner had been present they would 
have been heard and further orders in the proceedings would have been passed. 
It is not correct to say that no hearing was to take place. In every proceeding 
with reference to an election petition which is fixed for hearing either under 
the order of the Court or under the direction of the Deputy Registrar, who is 
authorised to do so. it is not necessary to mention what would be done on such 
a date. It is not correct to say that if this is not mentioned absence of the 
party would be immaterial. He need not assume that nothing further would 
be done. On the other hand he must assume that the Election Petition, which 
by the law is required to be tried expeditiously, would be proceeded with further 
if what is required to be done by a party is complied with. It is consequently 
not correct to say that the case was not intended to be proceeded with further 
but had been fixed merely for a ministerial purpose. It is also not correct to 
say that 25th August, 1967. was fixed not by the Court but by an incompetent 
person namely the Deputy Registrar. He is fully competent under the Rules to 
fix the cases. The decisions in~A.tR 1938 Rangoon 3G0 Maung Ahmin V. Maung 
Sating, A.I.R. 1934, Lahore 934, Hukam Chand V, Mani Shibrat Dass, 1065, 
Ma-dhya Pradesh Law Journal Soort Note No. 58 Basanti Bai V. General Manager 



Sec. 3<ii)J 1 HE GAZETTE OE INDIA: DECEMBER 23. 1%7/PAUSA 2, 1889 


470? 


M. P. S.R. Tr. Corporation, and 1959 Punjab 257 Ram Nath v. Paul Singh, upon 
which the petitioner relies have no application. As regards A.I.R. 1938 Rangoon 
360 supra it is held there that if the case is fixed mere’y for paying process 
for the witnesses to be summoned or for filing list or witnesses ought not to be 
dismissed for default. 

In this case the case was being taken from time to time on the date fixed for 
trial of the Election petition with a view to take further proceedings. Moreover 
in this case the petitioner had chosen not to appear at all on any earlier date of 
hearing. Counsel must also have returned papers to the petitioner because of 
the petitioner's neglect. 

In the Lahore case A I R. li)'U Lahore 981 (supra) the case was fixed for 
hearing Ly a clerk who had no right to do so. Such is not the case here. 

In A I.R, 1959 Punjab 2-57 (supra) it is held that where an adjournment was 
obtained for amending an election petition and the Court permitted the amend¬ 
ment. c; payment of costs frllur to -'mend or to pay costs did net justify the 
order dkmissms the petition under Order 17 Rule .3 C.P.C. 

I am therefore, ot the view 'hat the petitioner had full knowledge of Ihe 
petition having been fixed for hearing on 251 h August, 1967 and 29th August, 
18C7. lie remained absent. His counsel too was absent. The case consequently 
oannot bo restored pursuant to our power under Section 151 C.P.C. as there was 
no suf r .c;<:nt cause for his absence on those dates. 

The petition for restoration of the Election Petition is consequently unten¬ 
able. If is dismissed with costs. Ci unsei's fee shall be taxed at Rs. 59. 

> (Sd.) V- V. Newaskar. 

Dated toe 25»h of October, 1967. Judge. 

[No. 82/MP/23/67.1 

flew Delhi. fj lc 29th November 1967 

S.O- 4106.—In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order, pronounced os 
the 7th August, 1967. by the High Court of Judicature, Andhra Pradesh at Hyder¬ 
abad, in Election Petition No. 11 of 1S67. 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE. ANDHRA PRADESH, AT 

HYDERABAD 

Original Jurisdiction 
Monday the seventh day oj August 
One thousand nine hundred and sixty seven 
Present: 

The Hon’ble Mr. Justice Kumarayya 
Application No. 150 and 155 of 1867 and Election Petition No. 11 of 1867, 
Application No. 150 of 1967: 

N. V. L. NacaFunha F!ao 

Versus 

1. Kotho Raghuramayya 1 

l 

2. Sanaltfayala Ankamma j* 

3. Chebrr.lu Hanumaiali j 
Kotha Rtgfiuramaiah 

Versus 

1 . N. V. L. Narasimha R'io 

2. Sa"akkayai'». Ankamma 

3. Chobrolu Hanumaiah 
App’icaiion under Section 

High’ Court may be pleased 

( 1 ) to treat the application as urgent 

(2) to dismiss with costs of the applicant the Election Petition No. 11 of 1967. 

( 3 ) to pay the costs of this application to the applicant 

(4) to pass such further or other orders. 


Petitioner. 

Respondents 

Applicant 


)- , Respondents 

■ 

J 

86 of Representation of People’s Act 1951 tint this 



4702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER US, 19G7/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Pari II- 


Applicatlon No. 155 of 1967: 

N. V. L. Narasimha Rao—Petitioner 

Versus 

1 . Kotha Raghuramaiah 1 

2. Sanakkayala Ankamma V — Respondents 

3. Chebrolu Hanumaiah j 

N. V. L. Naraslmha Rao —Applicant 

Versus 

1. Kotha Raghuramaiah 'I 
2- Sanakkayala Ankamma l —Respondents 
a. Chebrolu Hanumaiah J 

Application under order 1 Rule 10 C.P.C. Section 151 C.F C. that this High 
Court may be pleased 

( 1 ) to treat the application as urgent. 

(2) to implead Sri G. V. Punnaiah Shastry, as fourth respondent to Elcrtion peti¬ 
tion No. 11 of 1967. 

(3) and to pass such further or other orders. 

Election Petition No. 11 of 1987: 

In the matter of Election held on 21-2-r67 at the Guntur Parliamentary 
constituency. 

N. V. L. Narasimha Rao (Bar-at-law)—Petitioner. 

Versus 

1 . Sri Kotha Raghuramaiah 1 

2. Sankkayala Ankamma, M.L.A. S- — Respondents 

3. Sri Chebrolu Hanumaiah, M.L.A, J 

Petition under Section 80 and 81 of the Representation of Peoples Act, 1051. 
the High Court may be pleased 

( 1 ) to declare the election of the 1 st respondent as void. 

( 2 ) to award costs of this petition. 

( 3 ) pass such other relief or reliefs. 

These applications and the petition coming on for hearing, upon perusing the 
Judge’s summons and the affidavit, dated 2 th July. 1967 in Application No. 150 
of 67 and Additional affidavits filed in Application No. 150 of 67 and the counter 
affidavit filed in Application No. 155 of 67 and the material papers in Election 
Petition No. 11 of 1967, and upon hearing the arguments of M/s. B. Manawan* 
Chowdary P. Lingayya Chowdary, T, Lakshmaiah and B. Srinivasa Rao, Advocate 
for the applicant in Application No. 150 of 07, and 1st respondent in Application 
No 155 of 67 and Election Petition No. 11 of 67. and Mr. M. Bhujanga Rao. Advo¬ 
cate for 1 st respondent in Application No, 150 of 67. Applicant m Application 
No. 155 of 1967 and petitioner in Election Petition No. 11 of 1067 and of Mr. 
T Dhanurbhanddu, Advocate for 2nd respondent in Application Nos. 150 and 155 
Of 1967 and Election Petition No. 11 of 67 and of Mr. M. Ramaiah, Advocate for the 
3 rd respondent in the applications and the petition the court made the following: 

ORDER 

This is yet another case where the Election Petition has to he dismissed in 
limine under Section 86(1) of the Representation of the People Act. This time 
it is a case of non-compliance with the requirement of S. 82(b) of the Repre¬ 
sentation of the People Act. The facts bearing on the question are few and may 
be shortly stated, 

In the recent general elections for Guntur Parliamentary constituency held 
on February 21, 1967. six persons were duly nominated as candidates for election 
Of these only four, including the petitioner Sri N. V. L. Narasimha Rao, and the 
1st respondent, Sri Kotha Raghuramayya seem to have contested for the seat. 
Sri Gullapalli Venkata Punnaiah Sastri who was also a duly nominated candi¬ 
date did not choose to contest. He withdrew his candidature within the pres¬ 
cribed period. Eventually as a result of poll the the 1st respondent was returned 
from the constituency. His election has now been ca’le-d in question by the 



Sec, S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1%7/PAUSA 2, 1885 


4703 


Petitioner by means of Election Petition No. 11 of 1967, The grounds on which 
it is challenged arc many. Commission of various corrupt practices by himself, 
through his agents and other persons have been alleged in the petition. 1 need 
not refer to all of them for, at this stage, I urn concerned only with the allega¬ 
tions contained in the petition in relation to Gullapalli Venkata Punnaiah Sastn, 
who is not a party to this proceeding. 

At page 8 of the annexure tu the petition, the petitioner in this behalf stated 
thus:— 

"The first respondent with a view to split the votes among the brahmins in 
Guntur Town induced Punnaiah Sastry to stand for this Parliamentary 
seat, apprehending that all the Brahmins would solidly vote for the 
petitioner. He was given Rs. 506 by the first respondent for his 
deposit. Sri Punnaiah Sastry accepted the offer and filed his nomina¬ 
tion. Two days after the nominations were filed, first respondent 
spent about Rs, 300 and arranged a tea party in Brodipot and invited 
the voters of that locality. This function of treating some vffiers 
expressed their displeasure at this strategy of the first respondent 
Thereupon apprehending some violent reaction, the first respondent 
induced Punnaiah Sastry to withdraw from the contest offering him 
a reward of Rs. 500 which he gave him towards his deposit”, 

Again in his amendment petition, which was filed after the issues were framed, 
he stated thus:— 

“An amount of Rs. 1116 and Rs. 600 and Rs, 500 given on different dates to 
G. V. Punnaiah Sastry by the first respondent were intended to 
induce him to stand as candidate and withdraw his candidature subse¬ 
quently for his own purposes. The first respondeat used him as well 
as his agent for procuring votes for his election. First respondent 
is guilty of corrupt practice under Section 123(1) (A) (a) of the R.P 
Act,” 

Then in para 4 of the annexure to the petition, he stated thus:— 

‘The first respondent apprehending that his application will be thrown out 
by the Selection Committee approached Sri G. Punnaiah Sastri, the 
President of Guntur Town Congress Committee, to recommend him 
to the said Selection Committee and canvass support for his candida¬ 
ture in consideration thereof he promised a bribe of Rs. 1,116. The 
said Punnaiah Sast.ri without hastening to act on the more promise 
waited till the first respondent issued a cheque for the said amount, 
lie thereupon promised his vote and all kinds of support and sent a 
glorious report to the President of the A.P.C.C. stating that the 1st 
respondent alone had every chance of success and the chance of suc¬ 
cess of Smt. Parvati Devi are few and far between. The first res¬ 
pondent had given him another cheque of Rs. 600 and thereby not 
only procured his vote and also his services in canvassing for votes 
of others. 

Again at page 15 of the annexure Part IV to the petition he stated thus:— 

“A car was placed at the disposal of Sri G. Punnaiah Sastry. The first res¬ 
pondent allotted 3 or 4 cars for each Assembly constituency and each 
of them was given not less than Rs. 10,000 for canvassing and procur¬ 
ing votes not only for themselves hut also for himself, as his agents,” 

Then in para 2 of the amendment petition which was allowed to be added at 
page 7 part I para 5 of the annexure to the election petition, he stated thus:— 

“All the signatories headed bv Sri G. V. Punnaiah Sastry constituted them¬ 
selves as committee of hosts and issued invitation to facilitate the first 
respondent, were entrusted with Rs. 50,000 by the first respondent, t® 
he distributed among the scheduled caste voters and Communist 
voters in Guntur town including Israilpet, Kankaragunta. Venkata- 
raopet, Ramircddithota, Arundalpet, Sangadigunta, Sanieevareddi- 
nagar, Sapieevaiah Nugar, Nehrunagnr and they procured votes for 
the respondent by paying them at the rate cf Rs. 5 each. The first 
respondent himself through his agents distributed on the day of Elec¬ 
tion, Rs. 5 each to the voters of Bongarala Beedu, where Communist 
voters predominate and procured their votes.” 

In para 9 of the amendment petition added at the end of para 5 of the main 
petition, the petition referred to the fact that the 1st respondent wilfully sup¬ 
pressed certain items of expenditure ineludinc the amount paid to Punnaiah. 
Sastry, viz., Rs, 1116, Rs. 600,, Rs, 600 and Rs, 4,000. 



4704 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 2:!, I967/FAUSA 2, 1889 [Pari IT 


The case of the 1st respondent is that the above allegations made in the peti¬ 
tion (whether in its original or even amended form), ore virtually allegations of 
bribery against Punnaiah Sas.tri within the meaning of S, 123 (l)(A)(b) and 
S. 123(B)(a) and (b) of the Act, and therefore Punnaiah Sastri ought to have 
been joined as a respondent to the election petition as required under S. 82(b) 
of the Act; and that as he was not joined the netition is liable k' be dismissed 
in limine under Section 86(1) of th? Act. Gcourse, such. p:ea was not 
taken in the written statement nr.' at lire time venon th •> respondent 
had opposed the amendment. It was i.-tised at a late stage by wav of Applica¬ 
tion No. 150 of 1967, after the case was set down tor trial. In this application 
a fresh plea o f non-compliance with S. 82(2) bos been raised. Of course, there 
are other pleas also but they are covered by the issues .'ready settled, and the 
learned counsel Sri Lakshmaiah confined his argument only .o the fresh plea 
taken. 

The election-petitioner in his counter to +hN application con: r.tded ihm since 
the respondent never took any objeca- n ai any lime before the petition was 
posted for trial, he should be deemed to have waived such an objection, if any in 
view of the provisions of Order I, Rule 33 C.P.C. and his application, therefore, 
should be dismissed in limine. That roar 1 ., die adeoaken c; bribing Punnaiah 
Sastri and of inducing him to stand as c candid ke md i.ki io withdraw his 
candidature pro not interdependent offence. They pro two d'.st'nce offences for 
which two distinct issues have been framed. A< >n tern main petition the offence 
of bribing Punnaiah Sr.sin is alleged to have been commuted, bv the petitioner, 
on that account Punnaiah Sastri neeci no; h-' made a party, (to furlb-r con'end¬ 
ed that the respondent in para !) of his written statement" had averred that Pun¬ 
naiah Sastri had of his own volition and discretion filed his r. emiae Ron as what 
he regarded as a guard nomination and the respondent never induced Hm nor- 
requested him to file his nomination or withdraw the same and thr/ as tfv nomina¬ 
tion was intended to be a guard nomination, it was nakir-Jh- v hhdrm n as a 
matter of course in due time. The no*i 4 loner contend; ilia; :n view of this 
averment also. Punnaiah Sastri cannot he A-wned to bo a candidate within the 
meaning of S. 79(b). Further, Punnaiah Sm Un never held himself out. as a candi¬ 
date at any time, nor did he in fact even wish to stand or con tv me as a candidate. 

In his additional statement which the election-petitioner was called upon to 
file to clarify his position in relation io hr: stains of Punnaiah Sesu-i, he stated 

thus;— 

“Sri G. V. Punnayya Sastri was not a candidate within the meaning of Sec¬ 
tion 79(b) cf the Representation of People Act. for me fallowing 
among other grounds;—• 

(a) Punnayya Sastry’s nomination does not seem to be a valid nomina¬ 

tion nor was ho duly nominated. The person who is duly nominat¬ 
es or ctaims to be duly no mi rated wi 1 not be a Candida c urles" he 
began to hold himself out as a prospective candidate. He lias to 
satisfy two requirement’. Firmly, ho must hold himself out as a 
candidate as from the time of the election m prospect. Secondly, he 
must be validly nominated. Even assuming without admitting that 
he was duly nominated, lie did not hold himself out as a candidate 
at any time. 

(b) The first respondent (the petitioner herein) averred in his written 

statement that Punnayya Sustry was only a Guard Nomination. It 
cannot therefore be said that Punnayya Sas'.ry held fiim-elf out as 
a prospective candidate at any time. 

(c) Punnayya Sastry's name was not found in the li-’i of contouring candi¬ 
dates published under Section 38 of the R.P. Act. 

(d) Unless the petitioner herein, by positive evidence establishes that 

Punnayya Sastri is a candidate within the meaning of Sec)ion 79(b) 
of the Act, satisfying both the requirements meu-icned theiein, this 
application must be dismissed.’’ 

Even though the petitioner in his election petition staid that the 1st respond¬ 
ent had induced Punnaiah Sastri iu stand as a candidate and .hereafter to 
withdraw as such, now he seems to take the stand thar he was not a candidate at 
all, that he never filed a nomination paper nor was ho duly nominated. A certified 
copy of the list of validly nominated candidates oblained by the respondent has 
been filed. When shown to the petitioner, he did not dispute the correctness of 
the said list. 



i!it I J E Ol 1 M)Ja . PIWjiMot.^ 23, U)f)//PAi:SA 2, I8S9 


4705 


-fi u < i 


After filing his counter, the election-petitioner filed another petition (Applica¬ 
tion No. 155/1987; with a request to implead Punnaiah Sastri in the election 
petition on the ground that the omission to implead him was due to some mis¬ 
apprehension as to the exact status of Punnaiah Sastri. This petition was opposed 
by all the Ihrc-e respondents P emends nit 2 and 3 in the main petition took the 
same stand as respondent No. 1. 

The points that fall for determination in view of these two applications are: 

! 1) Whether the election petition tcriams allegations of corrupt practice 
against Punnaiah Sastri? 

t2) Whether Punnaiah Sastri is a candidate within the meaning of S. 82(b)? 

(3) Whether there was non-compliance with the provisions of S. 82(b) and 

the election petition is therefore liable to be dismissed under S. 86(1)V 

(4) Whether Punnaiah Sastri can now be impleaded as a party-respondent? 

In order to attract S. 82(b) of the Representation of the People Act, it is 
essential that there should be allegations ot corrupt practice against the candi¬ 
date in the petition. What is meant thereby is that the allegations must suggest 
and indicate that the candidate has committed a corrupt practice or is guilty 
thereof. It is immaterial whether he has done the same in his own interest or 
as a candidate. Even if it is done as an agent, the case wiil be covered by the 
provision. There i» ample authority in rapport of these propositions. In S. B. 
ABITYAN S- K.ANE. lSWAiui ( , A LR. 1958 Mad. 171 it war. held by the 

Madras High Court that the expression “any candidate who is alleged to have 
committed corrupt practices'’ employed in S. 82(b) must mean any candidate 
who is alleged to have committed corrupt practices and that there is no scope 
for importing any t „ A 1 •. iurious ItabTi'.v under S. 82(b). In S. B. ADITYAN 
r. S- KANDASWAMI cV OTHERS «, 1 A-I.R. 1358 S.C- 857 the Supreme Court 
held that when S. 82(b) talks of allegations of corrupt practice against a candi¬ 
date it means allegation that a candidate has committed a corrupt practice. 
Similar was the view taken in AMIN LAL r. HUNNAMAL < ) A.I.R. 1965 

S.C. 1243. 

So then it is to be seen whether there 'ire any allegations of conupt practices 
against Punnaiah Sastri in the sense that he has committed them. ’Whatever may 
be said of other allegations, there are indeed two allegations categorical enough 
which far from being merely narrative of sequence of facts that took place in 
connection with ti e election, positively show that the charge of commission of 
corrupt practice was made against Punnaiah Sastri. At one place in the amend¬ 
ed petition, at page 7. it has been said that all the signatories headed by Sc; 
Punnaiah Sastri were entrusted with Rs. 50,000 to be distributed among the sche¬ 
duled caste voters and Communist voters in Guntur town, including various spo, i- 
lied areas, and they prociued votes tor the respondent by paying them at the 
rate of Rs. 5 each Obviously enough it is a specific charge of coirunt praciico 
coming under S. 123(l>(A)i'o) against Punnaiah Sastri as well. That is the 
indisputable po.-iticn which even the petitioner on being asked could nor disown. 
Then there is an allegation at page 8 of the annexure to the petition, to which 
also reference has been made in the earlier nart of this order. Therein the 
petitioner has shown that Punnaiah Sastri. induced to stand a? a candidal;*, was 
given Rs. 500 by the 1st respondent. Wh°t he actually stated thereafter is this:— 
"Sri Pun ca.i th hrs; -i a evented the cl filed bis nommaMon”. Again in Pie 

same para he stated thus:—“Thereupon apprehending some violent reaction the 
first respondent induced Punnaiah Sastri to withdraw from the contest offerer; 
him a reward of Rs. 500 which he gave him towards his deposit.” 

If the said amount constituted gratification or reward, there .is little doubt that 
receipt of the said amount as a motive or as a reward for standing or withdraw¬ 
ing from being a candidate, is well within the ambit ol the amended provision of 
S. 123B(a) and is a corrupt practice. It is clear from the allegation in the peti¬ 
tion that the receipt of Rs. 500 constituted a motive fc.r standing and n reward 
thereafter for withdrawal. As the law stood before the amendment of S 123 
receipt of bribe was not a corrupt practice but as a result of the amendment, 
not only giving bui also receiving is equally an offence and is a corrupt practice 
within the meaning of S. 123 of the Representation of the Peonle Act Thus it is. 
manifest that there are allegations of corrupt practices against, Punnaiah Sastri 
in the election petition, as it stood before the amendment and also thereafter. Of 
course, in the election petition there are a large number of other corrupt practices 
alleged to have been committed by the 1st respondent and his agents and other 
persons on his behalf but that is not a matter of consideration for the purpow. 
of the present apn'ication The point for consideration would be simply whether 
or not there are allegations of corrupt practices in the petition against a candid. ! <* 


4706 the gazette of 


A: 


28, 


2 , 


IT 


who is not made a party-respondent. The correctness or otherwise of the said 
allegations need not now come up for consideration for it is sufficient if there 
are allegations to that effect- As we have ah early seen, there are such allegations 
In the election petition. 

Then the only other point to be considered for the purposes of S. 82 is whether 
Punnaiah Sastri is a candidate within the meaning of that provision. The peti¬ 
tioner now chooses to deny that he was a candidate. It is not easy to understand 
why the petitioner in the face of his clear averments in the election petition to 
the contrary has chosen now to contend that Punnaiah Sastri was not a candi¬ 
date. His averments in the petitioner categorical that Punnaiah Sastri was 
induced to stand as a candidate, that he accepted the officer of Hs. 500 towards 
deposit which was, in fact, paid by the 1st respondent to him, and then again 
he was successfully induced to withdraw from the contest. The very expression 
“withdrawal from the contest” implies that he was a duly nominated candidate 
who as such alone could withdraw from the contest under S. 37 of the Repre¬ 
sentation of the People Act. Had he not gone through the process of filing 
nomination paper, which must be in order, and come out successful in the 
scrutiny by the Returning Officer, his name would not have found a place in the 
list of validly nominated candidates prepared under S. 36(8) of the Representa¬ 
tion of the People Act. The petitioner could not remain unaware of the fact 
that Punnaiah Sastri wag a duly nominated candidate for himself being a candi¬ 
date it was in his interests to know about all the candidates so that he may 
raise objection in relation to the various nomination papers filed. Besides he 
must have necessarily looked into the list of validly nominated candidates for he 
was a person directly interested in that matter. 'He could not help himself to 
remain ignorant of all these events. He must also have been aware of the later 
list of contesting candidates prepared under S. 38 after withdrawals of candidates 
if any. His assertion that he is not aware and his denial as to Punnaiah Sastri’s 
filing nomination paper or his having been duly nominated or his withdrawal 
after due nomination, cannot be acceptable. At any rate, the certified copy of 
the list of validly nominated candidates, prepared under S. 36(8) and filed in 
Court bears standing testimony to the fact that Punnaiah Sastri was duly nomi¬ 
nated. This list has been shown to the petitioner who could not deny the truth 
thereof. All that he contends thereafter is that as the respondent himself had 
said in his written statement that he did not induce Punnaiah Sastri to stand or 
withdraw as a candidate but that the nomination of Punnaiah Sastri was intend¬ 
ed to be a guard nomination, it must follow that his candidature was not real or 
affective but was a mere make believe or showy matter and as he never held 
himself out also as a prospective candidate, he cannot be regarded as a candidate. 
Stress is laid on the words “began to hold himself” out used in S, 79(b) of the 
Representation Of the People Act. That section defines candidate in the following 
terms:— 

“ ‘Candidate’ means a person who has been or claims to have been duly 
nominated as a candidate at any election, and any such person shall 
be deemed to have been a candidate as from the time when, with 
the election in prospect, he began to hold himself out as prospective 
candidate.” 

It would appear from the language of the definition that it has. concerned itself 
not only with the meaning of ‘a candidate’ but also the time from which a person 
will be deemed to be a candidate. While the first part of the definition gives 
the meaning of the term ‘candidate’, the second part introduces a legal fiction by 
providing that a person coming within the meaning clause may be regarded as a 
candidate as from the time with the election in pio.spect, he began to hold him¬ 
self out as a prospective candidate. The second clause will not be applicable 
unless the condition of the first clause is satisfied. To come within the meaning 
clause, he must be a person who must have been duly nominated as a candidate 
or at least who claims to have been duly nominated though not actually nominat¬ 
ed which may happen in cases where the nomination paper was rejected, but the 
person claims it was wronglv rejected. So then unless a person flies his nomina¬ 
tion paper in accordance with the law in force, he cannot possibly he regarded as 
a candidate. Even if he files his nomination paper hut the same is rejected and 
he acquiesces therein and docs not claim to have been duly nominated, he will 
not be within the meaning of S. 79(b). Thus he should either be duly nominated 
or must claim to have hen duly nominated in order to come within the definition 
of candidate. The question of holding out arises only if the above two conditions 
are satisfied, and even that only for purposes of determining the starting period 
of his candidature. Though as a matter of fact he can be a candidate only 
when duly nominated or an occasion has arisen by reason of which he can claim 
to have been duly nominated, his candidature may relate hack to the time from 
which he started holding himself out to be a prospective candidate with the 
election In prospect. Thus the significance of holding out lies in determining the 





starting time of candidature and that only if he satisfies the condition of the 
first clause. His holding out may yet be of no avail if that was not done with 
the election in prospect. The contention, therefore, of the petitioner that unless 
it is proved that Punnaiah Sastri has held himself out as a prospective candidate, 
he cannot be held to be a candidate, even though he might have filed his nomina¬ 
tion paper and was validly nominated and his name appeared in the list of 
validly nominated candidates, cannot be tenable in view of the terms of Section 
79(b). 

The only other point to be considered then is that since the term candidate as 
defined in S. 79(b) shall continue to have that meaning in other provisions unless 
the context otherwise requires as is clear from the opening clause of S. 79 
whether there is sufficient context in S. 82 which may give a different moanin' 1 
to that term. We may read here the provisions of both Sections 82 and 80( < 1 
which are in the following terms:— 

“82. A petitioner shall join as respondents to his petition, (a) where ihe 
petitioner, in addition to claiming a declaration that the eledion ot 
all or any of the returned candidates is void, claims a further declara¬ 
tion that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected, all 
the contesting candidates other than the petitioner, and where no 
such further declaration is claimed, all the returned candidates; and 

(b) any other candidate against whom allegations of any corrupt practice 
are made in the petition. 

86(1). The High Court shall dismiss an election petition which does not 
comply with the provisions of section 81 or section 82 or section 117.” 

„ • * * • * 

Section 82 casts duty on the petitioner to make certain persons specified in the 
clauses (a) and (b) thereof party-respondents to the petition as enjoined by the 
said clauses It is open under luw to a petitioner to claim in his petition only 
the declaration that the election of al! or any of the returned candidates is void- 
He can as well claim a further declaration that the petitioner himself or apy 
other candidate has been duly elected. Whereas In the former case it is suffi¬ 
cient if he makes a returned candidate or returned candidates, as party-respon- 
dents, in the latter case he has to implead as respondents all the contesting candi- 
dates, i.o., candidates whose names were included in the list of validly nominated 
candidates and who did not wlthwraw their candidature within the prescribed 
period. In this way all the defeated and returned candidates have to be on record. 
It is significant to note that in case any allegations of corrupt practice are made 
in the petition against a candidate, be he a contesting candidate or not, he has ne- 
cessari’y to be made a party-respondent in either case. The words ‘other candidate 
used in contra-distinction to the words ‘contesting candidates’ employed in c’ause 
(a) manifestly show the clear intention of the legislature that all candidates who 
came within the definition of the candidate as in S. 79(b) and who on account of 
withdrawal of candidature under S. 37, are not included in the list of contesting 
candidates prepared under S. 38 of the Representation of the People Act, are with¬ 
in the meaning of that term. Such candidates have necessarily to be made party- 
reEmondents, if there are allegations against them of any corrupt practice. It is 
immaterial whether il is a single corrupt ora'dRe or many that, are alleged in the 
petition. They are in either case necessary parties to the constitution of the 
petition. In other words, in their absence the petition cannot be tried, but as 
enjoined by S- 86(1) has to be dismissed in liming, It is no doubt, provided In 
S. 99 that, in case anv charge of corrupt practice is made in the petition, the High 
Court shall give a finding at the time of the Anal disposal of the petition whether 
the said corrupt practice ha^ been proved and shnll also specify the names of all 
persons, if anv. who have been proved at the trial to have been guiltv of such 
corrupt practices and this it has to do only after notice heing given to the persons 
concerned to show cause why they should not be named and after giving them 
opportunity to meet, the case against them as enjoined in clmises fn) and fb) to 
the proviso to S. 99. Tire legislature has given special, importance to corrupt 
practice committed by candidates and did not leave it open to the discretion of 
the petitioner to ioin such candidates in Ihe petition but made it obligatory under 
a special provision on him to make them onrtv-rcsoondents to the petition 11scl f 
on pain of dismissal of the petition so that from the very initial stage the atten¬ 
tion of the Court may be centered on these allegations and the enquiry there into 
mav he made in the presence of those persons. That is the obvious intention ot 
the Parliament. 

It follows, therefore that Punnaiah Sastri, who was a candidate other than - 
contesting candidate as he had withdrawn his candidature, we a necesstry party 




to the petition as allegation of corrupt practice was made against him in the peti¬ 
tion. His non-inclusion is therefore fatal to the petition. 

This position in law is no longer in doubt and is well settled by authority 
including the compelling authoritv of the Supreme Court In CHATUHBliLTJ 
CHUNNILAL v. ELECTION TRIBUNAL, KANPUR AND OTHERS ( ) (.A.Lit. 1958 
A11.809), the Allahabad High Court after exhaustive discussion on the subject 
held that sub-clause tbl of S. 82 of the Act must be interpreted as coveting eases 

where a candidate is alleged to have committed a corrupt practice at any time 

even though he may have ceased to participate in the contest by withdrawing his 
candidature or may have been incapable of participating in the election because 
his nomination was rejected but he claims to have been duly nominated. The 
Bombay High Court in BABURAO TATYAJl BHOSLE a. "MADHO SRIHARI 
ANEY (.) A.I.R. 1961 Bom. 29 held to the some effect that a candidate who had 
withdrawn his candidature under Section 37 after filing his nomination does not 
cease to be a candidate and therefore so far S. 82(b) is concerned must bo made a 
party to the election if allegation of corrupt practice is made against him. It 
further held that the context in S. 82(b) does not require to construe the word 

candidate in any other sense than in S. 79(b). The same is the view of the Pun¬ 

jab High Court as expressed in RAO ABHE SINGH v. RAO NIHAL SINGH RAM- 
JI LAL ( ) A.I.R. 1964 Punjab 209, which lias been affirmed in appeal by the Sup¬ 

reme Court in AMIN LAL v. HUNNA MAL (.) A.I.R. 1965 S C. 1243. It has been laid 
down by their Lordships following the decision in MOHAN SINGH v. BHANWAR 
LAL (.) A.I.R. 1964 S.C. 1366, that a person who was a duly nominated candidate 
though he withdrew his candidature within the time prescribed by the rules must 
for the purpose of S. 82(b) still be regarded as a candidate. When an election 
petition contained any imputation of corrupt practice against such a person, it 
cannot be regarded as properly constituted unless he was impleuded as a respon¬ 
dent. It may be remembered that in that case only one of the several grounds 
set out by the petitioner to set aside the election related to the candidate who 
was not made a party-respondent. Similar was the circumstance of the rase in 
HAR SARUP v. BHIJ BHUSHAN SARAN ( ) A-I.R. 1964 All. 340. This case went 

In appeal to the Supreme Court ( ) A-I.R- 1967 SC. 836. Their Lordships observ¬ 

ed that if purity of election has to be maintained, which is the purpose of S- 123, 
a person who Is a candidate as defined in S 79(b) will remain candidate even after 
he withdraws till election is over and if he commits a corrupt practice whether 
before or after his withdrawal, he would be a necessary party under S. 82(b). 

It is unnecessary for me to multiply citations. It is clear that Punnainh Sastri, 
who had withdrawn from the contest, was a candidate lor the purposes of sub¬ 
section (h) of S- 82 and he was a necessary party to the petition. His non-inclusion 
must entail the penalty under S- 86(1) of the Representation of the People Act. 

Section 86(1) is express and explicit and enjoins on the Court to dismiss any 
petition which does not comply with the provisions ot Sections 81, 82 and 117 . 
This provision being mandatory in nature has to be obeyed in full. The Court 
has no power to condone or dispense with or waive non-compliance. 

The petitioner. In order to remedy this defect, has filed an application that he 
may he permitted to implead Punnaiah Sastri as a party-respondent even at this 
stage as his non-inclusion was based on a bona fide belief that he is not a neces¬ 
sary party to the petition, , 

■fr' 

It is urged that it is discretionary with the Court even in such circumstances 
to permit the petitioner in exercise of Us powers under 0 1 Rule 10, CPC., to arid 
party to the petition. It is difficult to subscribe to this contention. It is not as 
though the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code are made applicable without 
any qualifications. S. 87 of the Representation of the Peonle Act makes the pro¬ 
visions of the Civil Procedure Code available so far as thev are not inconsistent 1 
with the provisions of the Act. Ill fact, S. 87 says that subiect to provisions of 
this Act or any rules made thereunder, everv election petition shall be tried as 
nearly as may he in accordance with the procedure applicable under the Civil 
Procedure Code to tlic trial of the suits. The provisions of the Civil Procedure 
Code are thus made subordinate to the provisions of the Act and can he followed 
only when there is no express provision in the Act and only to the extent they 
mean no Inconsistency with It. I may refer in this hpbalf to the following obser¬ 
vations of the Supreme Court in JAGANNATH r. JASWANT SINGH ( ) A.I.R. 

1954 S.C. 210: 

"The general rule is well settled that the sat.utory requirements of elec¬ 
tion law must be strictly observed and that on election contest is not 



... j 4X1 V . ill lx, - J . J,l-. L.1 U _ , 1, U< , 1 .11.0^1 , 1 C,j 4/^ 


an action at law or a suit in equity but is a purely statutory proceed¬ 
ing unknown to the common law and that the court possesses no 
common law power. 

"It is also well settled that it is a sound principle of natural justice that the 
success of a candidate who lias won at an election should not be lightly 
interfered with and any petition seeking such interference must 
strictly conform to the requirements of the law. None of these pro¬ 
positions however has any application if the special law itself con¬ 
fers authority on a Tribunal to proceed with a petition in accordance 
with certain procedure and when it does not state the consequences of 
noncompliance with certain procedural requirements laid down by 
it. 

It is always to be borne in mind that though the election of a successful 
candidate is not to be lightly interfered with one of the essentials of 
that law is also to safeguard the purity of the election process and 
also to see that people do not get elected by flagrant breaches of that 
law' or by corrupt practices. 

In cases where the election law does not prescribe the consequence or does 
not lay down penalty for noncompliance with certain procedural re¬ 
quirements of that law, the jurisdiction of the Tribunal entrusted 
with the trial of the case is not affected.”. 

It is e’ear from the above that it is only when the special law does not pres¬ 
cribe the consequences of noncompliance with certain procedural requirements 
that the Court has power to exercise its discretion consistent with the principles 
of justice. If the consequences of noncompliance are provided in special law the 
Court' wmuld not be justified in ignoring the same or in permitting avoidance of 
the consequences by adopting a procedure which wmuld bring about such a result. 
In this view of the matter it is impossible to hold that the petition which ought to 
be dismissed under the mandatory provisions of S. 86(1) can at all be kept alive 
and be proceeded with either by invoking the powers under Order 1 Rule 10, viz., 
by impleading the necessary party or by permitting the party to de'ete that por¬ 
tion of the allegations in the petition which necessitate the impleading of Pun- 
naiah Sastri. This proposition again is well settled by chain of authorities. In 
K. MAMARAJ NADAR u. KUNJ THEVAR & OTHERS ( ) A.I.R. 1958 S.C- 687 

their Lordships while holding that if provisions of S.82 which prescribe who shall 
he joined as respondents to the petition are not complied with, the Tribunal is 
bound to dismiss the petition, observed that the defect of non-ioinder of neces¬ 
sary parties cannot be cured by amendment inasmuch as the Election Tribunal 
has no power to grant such amendment, be it by way of withdrawal or abandon¬ 
ment of part of the claim or otherwise. The same principle has been reiterated 
in INAMATI MALLAPPA BASAPPA v. DESAI BASAVARAJ AYYAPPA ( ) 
A.I.R. 1958 S.C 698 ;md AMIN LAL v. HUNNA MAI, ( ) A.I.R. 1965 S.C. 1243 

and some other decisions of the Supreme Court. The petitioner, relying on the 
last para of the decision in AMIN L-AL. v. HUNNA MAL () A.I.R. 1965 S.C. 1243, 
has argued that the observations contained therein must mean that the Court can 
notwithstanding the provisions of S.86(l) direct the necessary party to be im¬ 
pleaded in exercise of its powers under 0.1 Rule 10. C P.C. The observations of 
their Lordships are not susceptible of the inference that the petitioner seeks to 
draw. It was observed there that even if there was power to permit the joinder 
of parties that could not he exercised at any raie after the time has run against 
the petitioner. In the present case also the same difficulty would arise if it be 
assumed that 0 1 Rule 10, C.P C. as available to remove the defect in S. 82(b) 
for unless that defect is removed within the period of limitation, the stable in- 
formity which would warrant dismissal of the petition under S. 86(1) would 
endure. Judged from any .•;”g 1 e the petition for amendment cannot be allowed. 
On the other hand, the application of the 1st respondent must he allowed and the 
Election Petition must be di-missed in limine. 

The nlea of waiver raised bv the Election Petitioner invoking Rule 13 of Order 
L Civil Procedure Code, has to necessarily vield to the mandatory provisions of 
S. 86(1) which leaves no option to the Court but to dismiss the petition. 

I, therefore^ allow Application No. 150 of 1967. disallow Application No. 155 of 
1967. and dismiss Election Petition No 11 of 1967 in limine . The petitioner shall 
pay the costs of all the three respondents, which are fixed at Rs. 200 to each. 

Sd-/- V. Kui=hnaswami, 

Dy. Registrar. 

[No. 82/AP/11/67.] 


New Delhi, the 30th November 1967 

SO. 4467 —In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order, pronounced on 
the 10th October, 1967 by the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan at Jodhpur 
in Election Petition No. 13 of 1967. 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE FOR RAJASTHAN 
AT JODHPUR. 


Original Jurisdiction 


JUDGMENT 


SHRI MOHAN RAJ 
S/o Shu Manmal Jain. 
Resident of Village Deoli, 
at present residing at Bali. 


1. SHRI SURENDRA KUMAR 
TAP ARIA, 

S/o Shri Gajana, 9. 

Raja Santosh Road; 

Alipur, Calcutta. 

2. SHRI HARISH CHANDR'A, 
S/o Shri Ram Chandra 
Mathur, Resident of 
Nayabas, Jodhpur. 

3- SHRI KHANGARSINGH 
S/o SHRI KISHNA, 

Resident of Village Devli, 
Tehsil Kharchi. 


4. SHRI RAMZAN KHAN 
S/o Shri Lai Khan 
Resident of Village 
Lnmbia, Tehsil Pa'i. 

6. SHRI RAM PRASAD 
S/o Shri Ram Chandra 
Ganchi. Amardas-ki-Gali. 
Gandhi Bhawan, Pali. 

S. B. Election Petition No. 13 of 1967. 

Date of Judgment—10th October 1967. 


Present: 

The Hon’ble Mr. Justice Jagat Narayan. 

Messrs Marudhar Mridul and Inder Chand for the petitioner. 


Messrs. C.L. Aggarwal, Roshan Lai Maheshwari and B. N. Chanda for 
respondent No. 1. 

Mr. Prakash Chander Mathur for respondent No. 2. 

By the Court 


This is an election pelition under section 30 of the Representation of thd 
Peop'e Act 1951 challenging the election of Shri Surendra Kumar Taparia. 
respondent No. 1, to the Lok Sabha from the Pall Parliamentary Constituency. 
Tho pelition has been filed by one Mohan Raj, an elector to the Constituency. 
Tho election has been challenged under section 100 (i) (b) on the ground that 
respondent No. 1, his election agent and some other persons with his consent 
committed various corrupt practices defined under section 123. 


The election pelition was presented before this Court on 7th April, 1967. If 
was put up on ]4th April, 1967, before me with an office report that the provisions of 
sections 81. 82 and 117 had been compiled with. This was done In pursuance 
of section 86 fl) which lays down that the High Court shall dismiss an elcctioD 
petition which does not comply with the provisions of these sections. It waif 
not detected by me at that time that the petition did not complv with the pro- 
visions of section 82(b). Allegations of corrupt practice had been made in the 
petition against Shri R. D. Periwal who was the election agent of the relumed 
candidate. Shri R, D. Periwal was himself a candidate at the election He filed 
his nomination paper for the Lok Sabha from the Pali Parliamentary Const!- 
tuency on 18th January, 1967. It was accepted as valid. Shri Periwal however 
withdrew his candidature on 23rd January, 1967. 

Section 82 (b) provides that a petitioner shall join as respondents to Ms 
petition any other candidate against whom allegations of any corrupt practice* 




2 . 


117 




are made In the petition. "Candidate” occurring in section 82(b) has been 
defined under section 79(b) has follows: — 

“ ‘Candidate’ means a person who has been or claims to have been duly 
nominated as a canuidate at any election, and any such person shall 
be ueemed to have been a candidate as from the lime wnen, witn 
the eiecuon in prospect, he began to hold himself out as a prospec¬ 
tive candidate.” 

As Shri R. D. Periwal was duly nominated as a candidate at the election 
for this constituency ho was a candidate witnin the meaning ot the word as 
used m section 82(b) and I should have dismissed the election petition on 14th 
Apri , 1967 under section 86(i) on the ground that Shri Periwal was not joined 
as a respondent to the petition. The provision contained in section 66 (i) id 
mandatory. 

As has been fnentionde above the petition was not dismissed under section 
86 (i) by me on 14th April, 1967. Respondent No. 1 appeared through counsel 
on 15th May, 1967 and prayed for time to hie a written statement which wa» 

granted. He filed his written statement on 15th June, 1967. In this -written, 

statement no objection was taken on behalf of respondent No, 1 that the peti¬ 
tion was liable to be dismissed under section 86 (i) for non-compliance oD 
section 82(b), Objections were taken that several of the allegations were 
vague and were lacking in necessary particulars. On 2nd Ju y, 1967 a detailed 
order was passed asking the petitioner to furnish further and better particulars 
of the corrupt practices alleged in the petition. An amendment application was 
filed on 26th July, 1967. Respondent No, 1 filed objections against the amend¬ 
ment application. These objections were decided on 1st August, 1967. One 
allegation of corrupt practice and several instances of it were deleted for want 
of sufficient partioulars. The petitioner was al owed to amend the petition in 
accordance with the order of this Court dated the 1st August, 1967. Time was 
granted to respondent No, 1 to file an amended written statement. This amend¬ 
ed written statement was filed on 24th August, 1967. 

In this written statement a preliminary objection was taken that the petition 
should be dismissed under section 86(1) as Shri R. D. Periwal was not joined 
as a respondent. This objection in the written statement was based on the 
a'legatlons contained in the amended election petition. The hearing of this 1 
preliminary objection commenced on 29lh August, 1967. The learned counsel 
for respondent No. 1 contended in his arguments that the petition as filed origi¬ 
nally before this Court should have been dismissed under section 86(1) as 18 
contained allegations of corrupt practice against Shri R. D. Periwal who was 
a candidate at the election within the meaning of section 82(b). 

On behalf of the petitioner it was contended that as the original petition has 
been amended this Court can only examine the amended petition to see whether 
or not it complies with the provision contained in section 82(b). The decision 
of their Lordships of the Supreme Court in Amin Lai r. Tlunna Mnl (1) was 
referred to in this connection. That decision is of no held in deciding thta 
question. In that case the original petition did not suffer from the defect of 
non-compliance of section 82(b). It was only the amended petition which suffer¬ 
ed from such a defect. It was contended on behalf of the election petitioner" 
before their Lordships that what sub-section (3) of section 90 of the Act. as it 
stood at that time, contemplated was a petition as origina’ly filed by the* 
petitioner and an amended petition could not be dismissed for non-compliance 
of section 82(b). Section 86(1) of the Act as it now stands corresponds section 
90(3) of the Act before the amendment. In repelling the above argument 
their Lordships observed: — 

“Since an election petition can he permitted hy the Tribunal to be amended 
a petition which has been amended, would, from the date of amend¬ 
ment, be the only petition before it. Therefore, that would be 
the petition with respect to which it could exercise the powers con¬ 
ferred upon It by sub-section (3) of section 90- To bold otherwise 
would 'ead to the result that ihp powers conferred by the legislature 
on the Tribunal by this provision will become non-exercisable in 
respect of one category of election petitions.” 

It was not disputed before their Lordships that even if the petition as filed 
originally suffered from the above defect it had to be rejected. Under section 
86(1) it is the duty of the Court to dismiss the petition if it does not comply 


(11 A T.R, 1965 Supreme Court 1243- 



4712 


IHJi GAZ.il 1 1 L Oi iMJiA : OL'. h.Mi,i.R Zj, I'iui/.ALu in 


i A,, i II 


■With the provisions of section 81 or 82 or 117- The petition is put up before 
the Court to see if there is any defect of the above nature and it is oiuy if the 
Court is satisfied that the petition does not suffer from any such defect that 
service is effected on the respondents. Even if the Court omits to notice coy 
such defect at that stage it is bound to dismiss the petition under section 86(1) 
whenever it is brought to its notice that the petition as filed oruinai y suffered 
from any such defect. The provision contained in section 86(1) is mandatory 
and a petition which is liable to be dismissed under this provision cannot be. 
allowed* to be amended. If any amendment ox such a petition is permitted by 
the Court, the amendment itself is void. 

I now proceed to examine the original as well as the amended petitions 

Para 9 of the original petition runs as follows: — 

“That in order to promote feelings of hatred against the Congress candi¬ 
dates on the ground of religion, caste and community the respon¬ 
dent No. 1 or his election agent or other person with tne consent 
of respondent No. 1 got prepared a poster on cloth in which a 
Congressman (with a Gandhi cap) was depicted as butcher with 
a naked sword slaughtering a cow. This Congress man was shown 
as wearing Muslim dress. This poster was published in the main. 
Bazar of Rani just near the office of the respondent No. 1 at Rani. 

Rani is a big industrial centre and people from more than 300' 

villages visit ‘Mandi’ at Rani every day. The matter was reported 
t.o higher authorities by local police and Vikas Adhikari and the 
poster was thereafter removed. This is also a corrupt practice 
according to section 123 of the Representation of Peop'e Act 1951.” 

On behalf of the petitioner it was contended that the allegations contained 
in the above paragraph do not amount to a corrupt practice against the election 
agent of respondent No. 1. The allegation is no doubt vague inasmuch as it is not 
stated whether respondent No. 1 was responsible for the preparation or publi¬ 
cation of the poster or his election agent or some other person with the consent 
of respondent No. 1. The petitioner was directed to give the name or names of 
persons who prepared the poster or who exhibited it. He was also asked to 

give particulars of the facts on the basis of which he had assorted that the," 

poster was exhibited with the consent of respondent No. 1. In the amended 
petition (para 8) the petitioner has alleged that the poster was got prepared bv 
respondent No. 1 and it was he who got it affixed outside hi? office m the main 
Bazar of village Rani, through his agent Shri N. C. Mehta. 


There is thus no categorical allegation of corrupt practice against Shri R. EX 
Periwal contained in para 9 of the original petition. I do not express any opinion 
in this case whether or not the exhibition of such posters amount to a corrupt 
practice under section 123. 


Para 10 of the oiiginal petition runs as follows:— 

“That respondent No 1 or his election agent or other persens with the con¬ 
sent of respondent No. 1 sent persons in Sadhu garb in the Pali Par¬ 
liamentary Constituency who told electors of this constituency that 
if they vote for Congress they would be responsible for cow slaughter 
(Gao tlalyai Not only this, they administered oath., to the -'.iters 
not to vote for Congress. This is a corrupt practice according to 
section 123 of ihe Representation of the People Act. 1051 .” 


This did not contain a clear allegation that the election agent commuted the 
corrupt practice- The allegation made in it is that either respondent No 1 o • 
his election agent or some other persons with the consent of respondent No 1 
sent the Sadhus. The petitioner was asked to state in respect of each Sadly*, 
the date and place where he told the voters that if they voted for the Cornu-ess 
they would be responsible for cow slaughter and administered oaths to them* not 
t0 vote for the Congress. He was also asked to state in respect of each Sadhu 
whether he was sent by respondent No. 1 or his election agent or bv some other 
person with the consent of respondent No. 1- He was asked to disclose the name 
of the person who had sent the Sadhus with the Consent of respondent No. 1 




Sec. 3(iij] THK GAZE! IE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 


i. 19(57/1’AUSA 2, 1889 4713 


In response to the a bo vs order the petitioner added the following sub-para by 
way of further particulars to the above paragraph. Para 10 has been renumbered 
as para D:— 

■‘(i) The same was done at a meeting in Gandhi Katia Pali on 13th January 
1967 by Swami Sankranand Ji, Richanand Ji and Ratnsukh Ji and on 
16th January 1967 at a meeiing in Dhanmandi bv Swami Banarsi Giri 
Maharaj These meetings were arranged by respondent No. 1 and 
his election agent and his local workers.’’ 

R-xatirr. r>ar.a 9 of the amended petition along with the above sub-para I am 
o.t the opin’on that a dear allegation of corrupt practice against tire election agent 
is made out. The argument on behaif of the petitioner is that it is not stated 
that responds'',: No. 1 or his election agent or other perrons who sent the Sadhus 
to tc ’ 1 the voters that if they voted for the Congress they would bo committing the 
sir. oi covV slaughter and w no also administered oaths to the voters not to vote 
for the- Congress were told to 61 ro by respondent No. 1 or his ■.•lection agent or 
other persons who sent th.m with the consent of respondent No 1- Reading the 
aiieanllon'; c..-, a whole it is implicit tb..t the Sadhus were ran! with the obiect 
that they may '"’errise undue influence over the voters by telling them that if 
the: voted for 1'*.' Congress the/ would be er'inmih'.g the sin of cow slaughter! 
It was with this n-.j.-rl ‘hrt respond;nt No. 1 and his election agent arranged one 
meeting in Gandhi K-j"n at Pali arti-up 1: r Swam? S mkromnd Ji. Swami 
Rich maud Ji .red Swem: P.amsuhh J; to address i’-m cam-?. 1 urine r thev arranged 
another meeting on fsth January irulT iu- Dear. r.Icndi aid arranged for S’.vami 
Bara-;,i Girt i.Jaharaj to addles; it vUi the same object name 1 -, n tell the voters . 
that they •.you'd he ••■emmittiag the sia of cow rir.nghfer it xcev voted for the 
Conere-sp and to re. ni.~i.,h r on‘b 1 ■ them net to vo'c for It' Conare ~ It was 
not ihrsuutc - 1 tha t i;se amount to corrupt practices under section 123. 

Pj as 11 mu’ 13 oi ‘he oriain-d election pet-.ien run as follows:-- 

"(ill Thi-J th .esroodert No. ! a> •' his --Ir-clior. scent aeci persons autho¬ 
rised by respondent Mo. 1 in:ju>red and authorised the expenditure 
of huge sums of money fot fir-; eSrcUon campaign oi respondent No. 1 
between i.3di January 1967 and 1,3rd February lO-M. Tim e’melien 
expenws of rcrp.adent No. ! between the aforesaid clatw fai exceeded 
the P-nit e r Rs. 2,~J'00.'- ?ni thereby the respondent No- 1 contra¬ 
vened. the yroviJens of sections 77 and 12?, of ihe Rep-oxen ration of 
the People Act 1 3rd. The rciur" Gled fcv the respondent No- 1 is 
wholly ineorrec f - Thai some of xho instances amongst others of such 
election expenses have teen enumerated in this rctKicn.” 

"(131 Thai the 1 expendent No. 1. hi.; eleNon agent and other persons autho¬ 
rised by respondent No- 1 consumed petrol worth at least Rs. 50-000/- 
during 13 b January 39C7 to 23rd February 1967 in the Pail Parlia- 
mc:i:a"y (. 0 n. 5 t.itponcy in connection with this election ” 

The perm: - -jM.i 'briH of expen lituia pres"under section 77(3) for a 
candidate for e’cc.ion to a Lok S?.bha seat is Rs. 25-000/- The above two para¬ 
graphs contain s wea- allegation Buit both respondent No. 1 and bis election 
agent were guilty of the- corrupt practice mentioned in section 123(6). 

Two co^tr-nt-ons were advanced on behalf cf the peti‘icne~ with regard to the 
above two paragraphs. Cue wrs that full particulars of the corrupt practices 
alleged under the above paragraphs as ren wired by section £ 3 ( 1 )(b) were not 
given by the petitioner in these two paragraphs and therefore they cannot attract 
the provisions 01 section 82 (h). This argument is misconceived.' Section 82(b) 
only rcle's to allegations of corrupt practice. If allegations of e irrupt practice 
are made Li the petition but particulars as rec|U’>ei by section 83(1) (b) are not 
giver: tne High Court has power under section 88(9) to allow such particulars to 
be given bv an rvoendnen 1 ' rd the petition. In this conno, - tio-i i may refer to 
the decision of their LorJ'hins of the Supreme Court, in Harith Chandra v- Triloki 
Singh (r). 

In Beal v, SmT :!(■') tb» election petition merely stated that “the respondent, 
by himself and oU-w persons on his behalf, was guilty, cf bribery, treating an 
undn - influence''. The respondent took out an application for an order that the 
petition bo taken off the file on the ground that it merely stated the grounds but 

(21 A Lit, 1057 Supremo Court 444. 

Ci' (18691 4 C. P. 145, 




4714 THE GAZETTE OE INDIA; DECEMBER 23, 1907/PAUSA 2 , 1889 [Part U- 


not the tacts constituting the particulars as required by R. 2- In the alternative 
it was prayed that the petitioners should be directed to Rive particulars relating 
to trie several corrupt practices. In rejecting the former prayer, Bovfll C.J- 
observed:— 

"Now, with regard to the form of the petition, it seems to me that it suffi¬ 
ciently follows the spirit and intention of the rules; and no injustice 
can be done by its generality, because ample provision is made hy the 
rules to prevent the respondent being surprised or deprived of an 
opportunity of a Jlair trial, by an order for such particulars as the 
Judge may deem reasonable I think, therefore, it would be quite 
useless to require anything further to be stated In the petition than 
appears here.” 

With reference to the alternative prayer, It was held that an order that the 
particulars be furnished three days prior to the trial was a proper one to be passed. 
A similar decision was given in the Greenock Election case, a report of which is 
given in a footnote at page 150 of (1889) 4 CP- 145—38 L-J.P.C. 145. 

These two English decisions were approved by their Lordships of the Supreme 
Court in the above decision and It was held that the failure to give particulars 
of corrupt practices is not fatal to the maintainability of the election petition. 
Their Lordships observed: 

"There is, it should be observed, nothing in the Election law of England 
corresponding to S. 83(2) the question of particulars being left there 
to he dealt with under the Rules applicable to the trial of causes. 
The consequence is that while under the English practice, the peti¬ 
tioners are not obliged 1o state partPulars of corrupt practices in 
their petition, under S. 83(2) a statement of those particulars must 
be made, in ihe petition in a separate list annexed thereto But this 
dlllerence is rnoie a matter of form than of substance, as s. 83(3) 
provides for particulars being called for and furnished in the course 
oi the proceedings, and does not affect the conclusion as to the power 
of the Tribunal to allow new instances to be pleaded.” 

In the present ca^c I did not order dele lion of the above two paragraphs from 
the petition in the first instance but gave an opportunity to the petitioner to fur¬ 
nish full particulars as required by section 83(i)(b) and when full particulars 
were given I allowed the petition to be amended. The provision contained in 
section 82(b) Is attracted whenever an allegation of any corrupt practice is made 
in the petition even if the particulars of the corrupt practice are given. 

The next contention on behalf of the petitioner is that the allegations contained 
In paras 11 and 13 do not amount to allegations of corrupt practice against the 
election agent. The only amount to the corrupt practice against respondent No. 1- 
The argument Is that it is not alleged in these two paragraphs that the election 
agent by himself incurred or authorised expenditure In excess of Rs- 25,000/- and 
that no corrupt practice under section 123(6) is committed by a person other than 
the contesting candidate unless he by himself incurs or authorises expenditure 
in excess of Rs. 25,000/-- No auiho”ity was cited in support of this contention. 
It was argued that the commission of a corrupt practice entails U severe pena’ty. 
Section 8A provide; that a person found guilty of a corrupt practice by an order 
under section 99 shall be disqualified for a period of 6 years from the date on which 
that orders take effect. It was contended that a person other than the contesting 
candidate should only be held to he guilty of the corrupt practice under section 
123(6) if it is alleged and proved that he by himself incurred or authorised ex¬ 
penditure in excess of the prescribed limit in connection with the election. 

I am unable to accept this contention. Section 77 runs as follows:— 

”77- Account of election expenses and maximum thereof- —(1) Every candi¬ 
date at an election sha'l, cither by himself or by his election agent, 
keep a separate and correct account uf all expenditure in connection 
with R'e election Incurred or authorised by him or by his election 
agent between the date o£ publication of the notification calling the 
election and the date of declaration of the result thereof, both dates 
Inclusive, 

(2) The account shall contain such particulars, as may be prescribed. 

(3) The total of the said expenditure shall not exceed such amount as may 

be prescribed." 



Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


4715 


According to the above section either the candidate should himself keep a 
separate and correct account of all expenditure in connection with the election 
incurred or authorised hy him or by his election agent or the election agent should 
maintain such an account. Keeping an account means that it should he main¬ 
tained from day to day so that the person maintaining it—whether it be the candi¬ 
date himself, or his election agent—knows exactly how much expenditure has 
been incurred upto date, in order that the prescribed limit may not be exceeded. 
A duty is cast not only on the candidate but also on his election agent to keep 
a watch on the total expenditure so that it does not exceed the prescribed limit. 
If it so exceeds then in my opinion both the candidate and his election agent are 
equally responsible for it. 

A perusal of th? provisions of the Representation of the People Act 1931 goes 
to show that the powers and privileges of an election agent are the same as thone 
of the candidate. It stands 1o reason that he should share the same responsibilities 
with the candidate and should be subject to the same disabilities as the candidate 
himself. Under section 41 a perron who is for the time being disqualified for 
being a member of either House of Parliament or either House of the Legislature 
of a State is also disqualified for being an election agent at any election- Under 
Sections 4(5 and 47 the election agent has the same power of appointing polling 
and counting agents as the candidate himself. Under section 50 both the candi¬ 
date and his election agent are authorised to perform the functions of a polling 
agent or a counting agent. Under sections 77 and 78 an election agent has the 
same power of maintaining accounts and lodging them with the District Election 
Officer as the candidate himself- Under section 100(i)(b) a corrupt practice com¬ 
mitted by an election agent or with his consent, has the same ellect as a corrupt 
practice committed by the candidate or with his consent- Under section 123 which 
defines coriupt practices the election agent is on the same footing as the candidate. 

I am accordingly of the opinion that if the total expenditure authorised or 
incurred by the candidate and by his election agent exceeds the prescribed limit 
both of them are guilty of the corrupt practice under section 123(G), even if neither 
the candidate nor the election agent individually exceeded the prescribed limit- 
It is their joint responsibility to see that the expenditure incurred or authorised 
by the two of them does not exceed the prescribed limit, In this view of the 
matter paras 11 and 13 of the original petition contain an allegation of corrupt 
practice against the election agent of respondent No. 1. 

Para 16 of the original petition runs as follow's:— 

"That the respondent No- 1, his election agent or other persons with the 
consent and authorisation of respondent No. 1 held big feasts at 
Bizspur, Bera, Mundara. Rupawas, Gundoj, Ilatharlia, Mandha Thlka- 
nas, Badsu, Undarya Bera, Sinyari Bori Mada, Gajnai, Kamol etc. 

These feasts were held in order to induce electors to vote for respondent 
No. 1.” 

It has not been specifically alleged in the above paragraph that the election 
agent also consented to the holding of one of the feasts- An opportunity was given 
to the petitioner to furnish full particulars of the corrupt practice alleged under 
the above paragraph. He did not furnish the necessary particulars In accordance 
with the order of this Court- This paragraph was therefore deleted- 

Para 24 of the original petition runs as follows:— 

"That the respondent No. 1. his election agent and other persons with his 
consent and authorisation secured the assistance of Government ser¬ 
vants Patwari, Gram Sewaks, teachers etc- for the election campaign 
of respondent No. 1.’’ 

The above paragraph contains a clear allegation that the election agent al«> 
secured the assistance of Patwarls who arc Government servants covered by sec¬ 
tion 12317) (ft- Full particulars of the corrupt practice alleged under the above 
paragraph were not given In the original petition The petitioner was given mu 
opportunity of furnishing full particulars- As he failed to do so the above para¬ 
graph was deleted, 

The cllect of making a baseless allegation recklessly by a petitioner is the 
same as that of making a bona fide allegation. 

Para 25 of the original petition runs as follows:— 

"That the respondent No 1, and his election agent and other persons by 
the consent of respondent No. 1 paid and offered bribes between 



4716 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1%7/PAUSA 2, 1389 


[Part 1l— 


13th January 1967 to 14th February 1967 to induce electors directly 
or indirectly to vote for respondent No. 1. 

The following amongst others are some of the instances:— 

(a) Rs. 2,000/- were paid to the Mukhia of Scheduled Caste voters in 

village Khudala in the night of 14th February, 1967, packets of 
sweets and Rs. 2/- to Rs. 5/- per voter were distributed in several 
houses. 

(b) Rs. 2/- to Rs. 5/- per voter were given to about 300 scheduled nice 

voters of Sadri. 

(c) Rs. 7-500/- were paid for the community temple for the village Bava- 

riya Ka Jumpa, Sadri and Rs- 100/- each were paid to 22 Mukhiar;- 

(d) Rs, 750/- were paid to ore Hakkeram Meghwal of Sadri tor scheduled. 

caste voters of Chota Bhambhio Ka Bas. 

(e) Rs. 750/- were offered to Shri Kuparam Suthar, a trustee ’ of Shri 

Laxmi Narain Temple Lunawas who refused to take the amount, 
but it was later paid to another Mukhia. This temple is worshipped 
by nil S’.i'‘.bar.:, of Jr'i and Besuri Tohsils. Similar offers were made 
ii other ’•ibages of in- .■' Teheils. 

(f) Shri Mohr.r.lai Bohura c J Sadri was offered R: 2.000,'- to induce him 

not to cany a?:, for Congress ana to secure voters for respondent No. 1. 

(g) Rs. 750/- were paid for the sample of the V- Bheetwara (Teh- Ball) 

through the Sarpanch 

(h) Rs. 2.000/ wem paid for the repairs of two temple- at 3aU- 

(i) Shri Abdu' R ’.safe of Doom, Mohanlal Sharraa of Birapur, Shri Nalhu- 

lal of Na^a and Shri Tolaram of Naina were offered money to secure 
votes foe respondent No. 1. 

(j) Shri Rama and Tela Meena of V. Rio 1 a were paid Rs. 200/- and 20 Kg 

of rice for the village feast. Morey was paid similarly sc ThancH 
Beri, BJi-.rpur and several other villages. 

(k) that in the right of 14th February, 1967 in about 20 villages of Bail 

Constituency Biri bundles, match boxes, sweet packets and Rs. 2/- 
per voter were distributed a Jons with voter slips- 

(l) that in abom 50 villagers oi Bali Constituency 1 Kg Gar was distri 

buiea per house on the day of meetings of Swatantsa Party held 
during 13th January 1967 to 13th February 1967- 

(m) Rs. 5,000/- were promised to the Pancbas of Euat communit; r.i Rent 

icr the repairs of the temple. 

(n) Rs. 500/- were paid to Maghwal Dhaana of Desun. Assembly Const! 

tuency. 

(o) Rs- 1.800/- were paid for fdgah at Khcrwa and Rs. 5,000'- for school 

building. 

(p) Rs. 700/ were paid to Ghosis of Pali for purchase of gracing ground 

(r) Rs. 5C0/_ were paid at V- Sonar for school building and Rs. 1300/- 

for Omgara community. 

(s) Rs, 3000/- were paid at V. JLambia for school building and Pyau. 

(t) Substantial amount was paid to the Bawaries of Lanibia and Bhakari- 

wala and Kumbaras and Mochis of Bagrae. 

(u) Handsome amount was paid for school building at Gadawari and 

Mahiia Shiksha Sangh, Ranawas. 

(v) More than Rs. 10,000/- were paid to labourers at Pali- 

(w) Rs. 100/- wc-re paid at V. Kharda for school building. 

(x) Rs 1,000/- v.-crc- paid for repair of Mahadcoji temple at V. Basaut 

(Sumerput). 

(y) Rs 10.000/- were paid in Ihe wedding of the daughter of Kasrisingh 

ji of Jojawor and a transistor was presented to Thakae Sahib of 
Japan, 

(z) Sarpanchas of villages in Kharclii Assembly Constituency were paid 

Rs. 500/- to Rs 1.000/-. 

(aa) Rs. 2-000/- were paid to Khateeks of Kushalpura- Rs. 2.000,- were 
paid to Patels and Kumars of Kpshalpura. Rs, 1,000/- were paid 



Sec 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: bfcCEMBER 2S, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


to Mochis of Raipur and Rs. 500/- were paid to Meghwals of Dhan- 
keri. 

(ab) A letter was addressed by Shri Taparia’s agent Shri Pukhraj Kalani to 

Mukhias of village Deoil Udewatan and Banjakuri that if they vote 
for Swatantra candidate they will get their case pending in the 
court of Munsiff Magistrate So]at compromised or will compen¬ 
sate them. 

(ac) Shri Sukhlal Dave was paid Rs. 0,000/- to secure votes for Swatantra 

Party. 

(adl Clothes and money were distributed in Kntda and several other 
villages. 

(ae) Rs. 2.000/- were paid for Masazid, Anjuwan at Kotda 

(af) Rs. 2,000/- were paid for Higher Secondary School at Koida. 

(ag) Rs- 1,000/- were promised to Mukhias of Maghwal community of 

Cogunda for Ramdewara temple. 

(ah) Employment was promised to several influential persons or persons 
connected with them for getting their support in securing votes for 
respondent No- 1, 

(ai) Promised to employ persons in Mill and Factories which were promised 

to be established In Pali Parliamentary Constituency if votes were 
cast In favour of respondent No. I. 

(aj) Several houses were taken on rent for the offices and for residence 

of the respondent No. 1 and his workers at several places in the 

Pali Parliamentary Constituency. 

(ak) That more than 150 jeeps, cars and other conveyance of the various 

companies at Jaipur, Bharatpur etc- were utilised In the election 
of respondent No. 1 between 13th January 1967 to 23rd February 
1967 Several jeeps were also purchased for the election. 

(al) That the posters and pamphlets were printed and published by res¬ 

pondent No. 1 in contravention of the provision of section 127-A of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951.” 

In the opening part of the above paragraph there is a clear allegation that 
the election agent of the respondent also offered and paid bribes between 13th 
January 1967 and 14th February to induce the electors to vote for respondent 
No 1. 

It will thus be seen that clear allegations of corrupt practice were made against 
the election agent of respondent No. I- It is not disputed that Shri R. D. Beriwal 
was the election agent of respondent No 1 who had filed his nomination paper 
which had been accepted as valid and who was thus a candidate within the mean¬ 
ing of section 82(b)- The election petition is thus liable to be dismissed under 
section 86(1) the provision of which is mandatory- In this connection I may refer 
to the decision of this Court in Shri Brij Mohan Lai v. Shri Fateh Singh and others 
(S.B Election Petition No. 11 of 1967 decided on 12th May 1967). 

I accordingly dismiss the election petition with costs in favour of respondent 
No. 1. 


Respondent No. 2 supported the petition shall bear his own costs- The other 
respondents did not appear. 

The petition was heard on 15th June 1967, 2nd .Tulv 1967, 1st August 1967, 
29th August 1967 and 26th September 1967 to 29tb September 1967. Respondent 
No I was represented by more than one counsel- The case was heard on the last 
four days only for part of the day as evidence in another election petition was 
being recorded- I assess the advocates’ fee in favour of respondent No I at 
Rs. 750/-, 

The substance of the above decision shall forthwith be communicated to the 
Speaker of the Lok Sabha and the Election Commission and an authenticated copy 
, e - Judgment shall be sent to the Election Commission as provided under section 
103 of the Representation of People Act 1951. 


(Sd.) Jagat Narayan. 
[No. 82/13/67(RJ).] 



4718 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2 , 1889 [Part 11 


New Delhi, the 1th December 1967 

S-O. 4468.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 22 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
directs that in column 3 of the Table appended to its notification No- 434/GJ/66, 
dated the 11th November, 1966 for the existing entry against 7- Bhavnagar, the 
entry "1. Prant Officer, Apireli" shall be substituted. 

[No. 434/CW/67.] 


New Delhi, the 8th December 1967 

SO. 4469.—In pursuance of section 106 of tne Representation of the People Act, 
1951, the Election Commission herby Dublishes the Order, pronounced on the 22nd 
August, 1967. by the High Court of Judicature, Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad In 
Election Petition No- 5 of 1967- 


IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE ANDHRA PRADESH AT HYDERABAD 
(Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction) 

Tuesday the twenty second Any o] August one thousand nine hundred and si.rly- 
secen 

Present 

The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Anantanarayana Ayyar 
Election Petition No- 5/1967 

AND 

Application Nos. 166. 197 and 198 of 196T 
Election petition No. 5 of 1967: 

Between: 

Putti Venkata Subbalah —Petitioner 


versus 

Smt. B- K Radhabai— Respondent. 

Petition under section 81 of representation of People Act that the High Court 
may he pleased to declare the election of respondent to the House nl People from 
Bhadrachalnm (Schedule Tribes) Constituency as void and (2) to award costs of 
the petition. 


Application 166 of 1967: 

B. K. Radha Bal. Petitioner (Respt. in E-P. 5 of 67 on 

the file of the High Court). 

Versus 

Putti Venkata Subbalah- Respondent (Petitioner in do). 

Application praying that for the reasons stated in the accompanied affidavit filed 
therein the high court may be pleased to dismiss the election petition No. 5 of 1967 
on the file of the High Court. 


Application No. 197 of 1967: 

Putli Venkata Subbaiah. Petitioner (petitioner in E.P. 5 of 1967 

on the file of the High Court). 

B. K- Radha Bai- Respondent (Respt- in do). 

Application praying that in the circumstances stated in the affidavit filed in 
support of application 198 of 1957 the high court may he pleased to excuse the delay 
in presenting the application No. 198 of 1967 petition to impleading Smt- Vani 
Ramnarao as a party respondent to the election petition No. 5 of 1967. 

Application No. 198 of 1967: 


Putti Venkata Subbalah. 


Us. 


Petitioner (petnr. in E.P. No. 5 of 1967 
on the file of the High Court). 


1. B K- Radha Bal d 

2. Smt. Vani R'amana Rao f 


Respondents (respts. in do) 





■Sfc. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 28. 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


Application praying that in the circumstances stated in the accompanying affi¬ 
davit the high court may be pleased to add Smt. Van! Ramanarao, as party respon¬ 
dent to the election petition No. 5 of 1967- 

ORDER 

This election petition and applications coming on for hearing on Thursday the 
10th, Monday the 21st days of August, 1967 and this day and upon hearing the 
arguments of Mr. P- A Chowdary, advocate for the petitioner in the election peti¬ 
tion and application Nos. 197 and 198 of 1967 and the respondent in application 
No. 166 of 1967 and of Mr, Balamkonda Reddy advocate for the petitioner In 
application No- 166 of 1967 and respondents in E-P- 5 of 1967 and application No. 
197 and 198 of 1967 the court made the following Order: — 

Putti Venkata Subbaiah filed election petition No- ,6 of 1967 on 7th April 1967, 
impleading as sole respondent, Smt. B. K- Radhabai and praying for reliefs as 
follows: — 

“(a) to declare the election of the respondent as void. 

(b) to award costs of the petition.” 

The respondent filed a written statement contesting the petition. Various issues 
were framed and the case was posted for trial. Subsequently the sole respondent 
filed application No. 166 of 1967, praying for dismissing the election petition with 
costs- In it, she has urged the ground that the petition is bad for nonjoinder of 
one Smt Vani Ramanarao, who, according to the respondent is a candidate within 
the meaning of section 79(b) of the representation of the People Act, 43 of 1951 
(Hereinafter referred to as the Act), and on the ground that the election petition 
discloses allegations of corrupt practices against her, falling under section 123(1) 
(B) (a) of the Act. 

The election petitioner contested the petition. 


The arguments were heard in lull and closed on 10th August 1967- Order was 
reserved- 

Sebsequently on 14th August 1967 the same question was raised and argued to 
application No- 169 of 1967 in E.P- No. 13 of 1967 and in application No. 178 of 367 
fn E P- No. 6 of 1967. When those arguments on those petition and ,5^ U th ' 

tions incidental to and associated with them wore heard. Sri P- A- Choudary, th 
learned counsel for the petitioner, sought permission to file two applications and 
1 granted the permission. 

The petitioner accordingly filed two applications on 21st August 1967. They are 
as follows; Application No" U)8 of 1967 is filed praying 0 implead Smt Vani 
Ramanarao as party respondent to election petition No_ 5 of 1967 a P fi ^ u 

other order as this court may deem fit- Application No. 197 of 1967 h 
excuse the delay in presenting the application No. 198 of 196 1 - 

In the election petition the petitioner has alleged as follows:- 

■■Bhadrachalam Parliamentary Constituency ^ reserved for Scheduled THbe, 
Therefore, only an elector who belongs to Scheduled irlDes tan cumesL 
fm- (his seat The respondent herein is ‘Doll by caste and is not a 
member of the Scheduled Tribes, and therefore, she is not quahfled to 
contest from the aforesaid Bhadrachalam Parliamentary (S-T-) Con 
stituency reserved for Scheduled tribes. However the respondent pro- 
foocinrf to be a (Kova' filed her nomination and got herself elected ■■ ■ 
The petitioner^ also submits that one Smt- P. Vani Ramanarao member 

°1 the Andhra to the 

HouaTTS,? People Iron, the .lo^ff Bh.drae Mg. j e^ea^ 

stituency- The respondent being doubtful of winning 

against her sister Smt. Vani occupying 

K5J c Se c ^ 

toha ve" been incurred by Van i Ramanarao in cons 

zsriss s-zsz. v ”‘ wssal zsrsss** “ 





4 


INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Par* II- 


respondent issued a cheque In the name of Sint. p. Vani Ramanarao 
for a sum of Rs. 1500/- on 23rd January 1967- The respondent also 
paid a sum of Rs. 1500/- in cash to Smt. Vani Ramanarao- Immediate- 
' ly Smt- Vani Ramanarao cashed that cheque in the Cooperative Central 
Bank at Bhadrachalam and realised the amount- Thereafter, in pur¬ 
suance of the agreement, Smt. Vani Ramanarao withdrew her nomina¬ 
tion at the last hour. The petitioner therefore submits that the elec¬ 
tion of the respondent is vitiated by the act of bribery '' 

The election petitioner urged some other corrupt praetlces- 

On the basis of the pleadings in the election Detition and the written 3tatem.ent.-i, 
five Issues were framed- The following issues are relevant for discussion in this 
order: 

Issue No. 1: 

Whether the respondent is a Doli by caste and is not a member of the scheduled 
tribes in Andhra Pradesh? 


Issue No- 3: 

Did the respondent induce Vani Ramanarao her own sister to withdraw from 
candidature to the Parliamentary seat in Bhadrachalam Constituency by paying 
her a sum of Rs. 3,000/- as consideration for the same? What Is its effect? 

Issue No. 5 :, 

Whether K- P- Santhi Raiu, S- Suvarna Kumar and T.G S Sundarrao are neces¬ 
sary parties to this petition? What is the effect of their non-inclusion. 

ISSUE NO- 5 was the result of the contention in paras 4 and 5 of the election peti¬ 
tion that the nomination papers of three persons mentioned In that issue ought to 
have been rejected, as they were improperly accepted, with the consequence that 
the result of the election was thereby materially affected. 

I shall refer to the parties by their denomination in the main election petition, 
and to Smt- Vani Ramanarao by her name in this order 

In application No- 160 of 1967 It. is urged as follows: The election petition 
contains allegations which amount to corrupt practices contemplated by s. 123 (1) 
<B1 fal of the Act hy Smt. Vgni Ramanarao by her receiving cash and cheque fo 
withdrawing from her nomination, and by her, in pursuance of the agreement, 
actually withdrawing her nomination, Smt. Vani Ramanarao was a candidate 
within the meaning of section 79(b) of the Act. Therefore. Smt- Vani R'amanarao 
fane®ssaTp£ty under section 82(b) of the Act. The non-joinder of Smt. \ am 
Ramanarao In fatal to the maintainability of the election petition. Therefore, 
tion has to be dismissed under s. 86(1) of this Act. 

The election petitioner filed a counter raising the following contentions: — 

(a) The election petition was presented to the High Court on 7th April 1967 and 

dismiss the election petition the same cannot be dismissed after it h 
for trial under seqtiop 86(2).— 

(b) Smt- Vani BamAnarao isi a DoU by «aste andjsnot factVis 

nominated because she does not belong b person belonging to Dob Caste 

one of the issues m the election Vscheduled Tribe seat I therefore 

is aualifled or not qualified to contest o candidate who has been duly 

Har/a®” a - 1 

have been added under Section 82(b) 

(c) The plea which is now taken in appHcation Na l66/1967 has n t ^ e ^ ee months , 

Id the course of the trial syr e «m _ mies- 


(c) The plea which is now lasen ui sor ead 

by the respondent during th ec^If , an arao is a candidate 
mho m, P «Hnn whether Smt- Vani Ramanarao in * 


or nor is a mixed que3- 

The question whether Smt- vanl ‘^pelded mcrely on the vague and uncertain and 
ffi u 2v?MS t£ ^TonV^rtly by the respondent." 





*c. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 2S, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 472 ! 


For convenience. I have marked the different portions as (a) (b) (c) as forming 
separate contentions: — 

Though the learned advocate for the election petitioner did not specifically raise 
in his counter during the course of arguments he raised a contention as follows: — 

fd) That section 86(1) of the Act is ultra vires, because it contravences Article 
14 of the Constitution as it provides for dismissal without allowing impleading of 
parties which is allowed in C.PC. under order 1 rules 9, 10 and 13 to cure non¬ 
joinder of necessary parties. This point, being a pure question of law was allowed 
fcy me to be taken in the course of the arguments- 

For proper understanding of the contentions of Shri P. A. Choudary and his 
aiguments on these points the wording of some important sections of the Act is 
necessary to be extracted 

Section 80-A runs thus: — 

‘High Court to try Election Petitions: 

•IT) The Court having jurisdiction to try an election petition shall be the High 
Court. 

i'2: Such iurisdiction shall be exercised ordinarily by a single judge of the High 
Court and the Chief Justice shall, from time to time, assign one or more judges for 
that purpose”. 

Section 81 runs thus- — 

“( 1 ) An election petition.may be presented to the High Court by any 

candidate . ...” 


Section 86 runs thus: — 

"(1) The High Court shall dismiss an election petition which does not comply 
with the provisions of section 81 or section 82 or section 117- 

Explanation -—An order of the High Court dismissing an election petition under 
this sub-section shall be deemed to be an order made under clause (a) of section 98. 

(2i As soon as may be after an election petition has been presented to the High 
Court it "shall be referred to the Judge or one of the Judges who has or have been 
assigned by the Chief Justice for the trial of election petitions under sub-section 
(2) of section 80A- 

( 3 ) Where more election petitions than one are presented to the High Court in 
respect of the same election, all of them shall be referred for trial to the same 
judge who may, in his discretion try them separately or in one or more groups”. 

Section 87 runs as follows: — 

■‘(1) Subject + o the provisions of this act and rf any rules made every election 
petition shall be tried by the high court as nearly as may be in accordance with 
the procedure applicable under tne Code of Civil Procedure. 1908 to the tiial of 
suits. 

Provided that the High Court shall have the discretion to refuse for reasons to 
be recorded in writing to examine any witness or witnesses.... 

-Section 98 runs as follows: — 

' “At the conclusion of the tria T of an election petition the high court shall make 
.an order-— 

,'a) dismissing the election petition: or 

,b) declaring the election cf all or any of the returned candidates to be void, 

or—” 


■Section 99 runs as follows: — 

<1) “at the time of making an order under section 98. the high court shall also 
make an order—“ 

The first contention of Shri P. A- Choudary is that, at the time when the High 
ro-.rt re-eu-es the cetition which is presented to it. the High Court is functioning 
os High ^ourt and can dismiss the petition as High Court and that once the case 
is referred to a Judge for trial (“we are not concerned m this case of the case being 
referred to more thin one Judge”), from that stage onwards, the judge to whom it 



4722 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 28, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Pari H- 


1s referred is a persona designaia and functions as such and not as High Court and 
therefore, does not have power to dismiss it under section 86(1) of the Act.” 


Sri Choudary has relied on the decision in O-A-O-K- LAKSHMANAN CHETTIAR 
Vs- J. S. KANNAPPAR AND OTHERS (AIR 1927 Madras page 99)- In that case, 
a Full Bench of the Madras High Court considered the question whether the Chief 
Judge of Small Causes Court was not a court subject to the machinery of the Civil 
Procedure Code, but a persona designate whose decision was not only not appeal- 
able but cannot be called up in revision. The order of the Chief Judge concerned 
was an order passed in revision pronouncing the nomination of a person Iot elec¬ 
tion as Councillor under the Madras City Municipal Act, 1919 to be invalid and 
directing the name to be struck off the list of nominations- The learned Judges 
referred to certain provisions In Rule 4 of the rules framed under the Madras City 
Municipal Act of 1919 and order 1 (a) Rule 6 of the rules of the Small Causes 
Court 1902 and observed as follows;—(at page 95). 

“'The argument is that if by any Act or rule a matter shall be referred to 
the Chief Judge alone, he is nevertheless acting as the court. We are 
of opinion that this rule only applied to cases where the reference 
made by the act or rule in question is clearly to the court, though 
functioning through the Chief Judge and that it leaves untouched the 
real question which we have to decide; namely, whether this power 
was conferred'by R 4 made under the Municipal Act upon the Chief 
Judge as the court functioning through himself or upon him as a 
persona designata. Looking at, the Municipal Act, it is clear that the 
draftsman of that act was quite alive to the distinction between the 
court of Small Causes (vide S, 59) and the Chief Judge of that court 
(vide S 54). It is difficult to resist the inference that when the Chiet 
Judge is referred to in the act he was meant to act as a persona desi¬ 
gnata and not as representing the court”. 


That conclusion depended upon the provisions in the : act concerned.in that case 
Similarly, in MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF RANGOON Vs. MA SHAKUR 
(AIR 1926 Rangoon page 25) it was held by the Rangoon High Court that uhen by 
an act of the legislature, a new authority is constituted for the purpose ot determin¬ 
ing nuestlons concerning rights which are themselves the creation of the act and a 
udge OT presXg officer of a court as distinct from the court itself, is directed to 
perform the functions of the newly created authority then it must be presumed 
unless the contrary is expressly Indicated or necessarily Implied that the Intention 
of the legislature was that the judge or the presiding officer should perform those 
functions as a person designated and not as a court- Therein It was also observea 
whether a civil court exercising special jurisdiction is persona designate or not 
will have to be inferred from a consideration of the special powers exercised and 
the special functions performed by it. 

Tn ^resent case section 80(A) specifically mentions that the jurisdiction 

to try an election petition is in the High Court and also calls it “ 
hirlsdiction’ Section 81 mentions that presentation is to the High Court, ana 
mentions that dismissal fat non-compliance with the provisions cf 
u; + n be done bv the High Court- The explanation to sub-section (1) 
of section 80 specifically mentions that dismissal under section 86(1) should be 
deemed to be an order made under section 98(a). An order under section 98(a) 
clnTe made only by a Judge after full trial be., only by a Judge to whom the 
election petition has been assigned by the Chief Justice under sec ^°" and 

who has followed the procedure prescribed in other portions of section 86 and 
Conducted the trial as mentioned in section 86 and the following sections- T a 
shows that an order of dismissal for non-compliance passed under section 8 ( . 
is bv the same authority who can pass order under section 98(a) - From tins. 
It follows that a Judge to whom an election petition is assigned by the C l 
Justice under section 86(2) functions as High Court. Section 3 mentions that 
the same judge may try the several petitions separately or m groups and sub¬ 
sections 4, 5 6 and 7 refer to what the Judge would be doing in the course oi 
trial as acts done by the High Court. 


So from the wording of the various sections it is dear that the Judge to 
whom' an election petition has been assigned functions as a High Court- and not 
as persona designate and that a distinction between such judge and the High 
Court Is a distinction without a difference. 


Sri Choudary seeks support for his contention from the provisions of the act 



■iBC, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 4723 


as it stood before the amendment in 1966- The provisions for dismissal, before 
the amendment were as follows :— 

■‘Section 85. If the provisions of section 81 or section 82 or section 117 have 
not been complied with, the Election Commission shall dismiss the petition.. ” 
■‘Section 86(1)- If the petition is not dismissed under section 85 the Election 
Commission shall then refer the petition to an Election Tribunal for trial...” 
■‘Section 90(3). The Tribunal shall dismiss an election petition which does 
not comply with provisions of section 81, section 82 or section 117 notwith¬ 
standing that it has not been dismissed by the Election Commission under 
section 85’’. 

By the amendment act of 1966 the trial of election petition by Tribunals was 
changed over to trial of election petitions by High Court under section 86(1) 
already extracted by me. 

Shrl Choudary contends that, originally there was scope for dismissal at two 
stages for non-compliance of the provisions etc., the first stage being the Com¬ 
mission and the second stage being the Tribunal- He contends that the intention 
of the legislature in enacting section 86(1) in place of old section 85 and old section 
90(3) before amendment is that there should be dismissal only at one stage, and 
that could be done only by the authority who receives the petition and not by 
the authority to whom It is made over for trial (by the authority who receives 
it)- This argument of Sri Choudary is based on the assumption that the amend¬ 
ment was with a view to see that there should be dismissal only at one stage 
instead of the original two stages, and a further assumption of the very fact 
which is in controversy viz., whether the Judge to whom an election petition is 
assigned by the Chief Justice under section 86(2) is different from the High Court 
which is mentioned in the present section 86(1) as competent to dismiss- and 
m section 81 as the High Court to which election petition may be presented. 

Section 86(1) does not expressly by implication indicate that High Court shall 
have power to dismiss an election petition only before it is assigned to a Judge, 
or that it cannot be dismissed subsequently after assignment, by the Judge to 
whom it is assigned. 

I find that the assumptions made by s r i Choudary are not well-founded or 
justified and that the contention of Sri Choudary is not acceptable in view ot 
unmistakable and clear indications available in the wording of the various sections 
which have already been referred to by me- 


CONTENTION (B):— 

It has been held in the order in application Nos. 150 and 155 of 1967 by 
Kumarpyya, J. dated 7th August 1967 (3) that a duly nominated candidate, who 
had withdrawn is a candidate under s- 79(b) of the Act, that if an allegation of 
corrupt practice is made against such a person that person has to be impleaded 
under S- 82(d) of the Act, and that if such person Is not impleaded, the election 
petition has to be dismissed under S. 86(1) of the Act, which is a mandatory pro¬ 
vision. Kumarayya J. has also held that a petition to amend an election petition 
by Impleading a withdrawn candidate against whom a corrupt practice has been 
alleged In the original election petition cannot be allowed, and has to be dismissed- 
That decision is based on ample authority including the express words of thf* 
statute and decisions of the Supreme Court in HAR SWARUP AND ANOTHER vs 
BRIJ BHUSHAN SARAN AND OTHERS (AIR 1967 Supreme Court, o. 836) AND 
AMIN LAL VS. HUNNA MAL (AIR- 1905 Supreme Court, page 1243). That 
decision is binding on me and I respectfully follow It. 


However, Sri Choudary, the learned advocate for the election petitioner con¬ 
tends that Smt- Vani Ramanarao Is not a candidate under s 79(b) of the Act 
because (according to Sri Choudary) she Is not duly nominated as a candidate' 
Beyond doubt or dispute, her nomination was accepted by the Returning Officer 
and she withdrew after her nomination was so accepted. This Is clear from the 
election petition itself But Sri Choudary contends that she was a Dholi by car'-- 
and not a member of Scheduled Tribe, and therefore she could not be a de¬ 
nominated candidate, as only a person belonging to Scheduled Tribe can be valid 1 • 
nominated. (In this order, to avoid unnecessarily cumbrous language, no dis 
ls ™ ade between caste and scheduled tribe). It. is mentioned by the 
e ^ C «? n petlt oner * n bis counter that it is one of the issues in the election petition 
whether a person belonging to Dholi caste was qualified or not qualified tocontest 
from a Scheduled Tribe seat- He obviously refers to issue No. 1. It relates orb- 
to whether the respondent Is a Dholi by caste, and not a member of scheduled 



4724 THE gazette of india -. December 23. 1967/pausa 2, iseg [Pakt 11 - 


tribe. This does not cover the question whether Smt. Vanl Ramanarao is a Dholi 
by caste and not a member of the Scheduled Tribe. A decision on this issue can 
validly decide only regarding the respondent and can be binding on the respon¬ 
dent. This issue cannot be decided so as to be binding on Smt. Vani Ramanarao 
when she is not a party in this election petition- If there is to be an issue and 
finding in the election petition proceedings to be binding on her on the question 
as to whether she is a Dholi by caste she must first be impleaded- The mere 
fact that she is the sister of the respondent may be utilised as a basis of an argu¬ 
ment to show that, if the respondent is a Dholi and not a member of the Scheduled 
Tribe, Smt. Vani Ramanarao also must he a Dholi and cannot be a member of 
the Scheduled Tribe. But such an argument cannot be accepted as against Smt- 
Vani Ramanarao and cannot be the basis of a finding that Smt- Vani Ramanarao 
was not a validly nominated candidate or a duly nominated candidate unless Smt. 
Vani Ramanarao is a party- 

All the same Sri Balamukunda Reddy for the respondent points out that in 
\V. P. No. 9.'13 of 1957 (fi) Sint. Vani Ramanarao was declared to be a Koya i.e., 
a member of the scheduled tribe. In that case the petitioner was the President 
of Scheduled Tribes' Association and prayed for a writ of quo irarranto contend¬ 
ing that Smt. Vani Ramanarao who had been elected to Bhadrachalam Assembly 
constituency on the scheduled tribe seat was void. A division bench of this court 
held that Smt. Vani Ramanarao was a Koya and that the election was not void. 
Sri Balamukunda Reddy contends that this is a judgment in rem because it ad¬ 
judicates in a matter which affects the status of Smt.- Vani Ramanarao and there¬ 
fore, it has a value even as against the election petitioner. This contention is 
acceptable. I 

Sri Choudary contends that though the nomination of Smt. Vani Ramanarao 
was accepted she was not a duly nominated candidate, because in spite of her 
nomination having been accepted by the returning officer after scrutiny, the 
question whether she was a duly nominated candidate or not depends on the ques¬ 
tion being decided in this election petition on evidence as to whether a Dholi Is 
a member of a Scheduled Tribe. It has to be noted that section 79(b) of the Act 
covers not only the person who has been duly nominated as a candidate but also 
a person who claims to have been duly nominated. The allegation in the election 
petition regarding Smt. Vani Ramanarao is that the respondent paid money to 
Smt. Vani Ramanarao. as mentioned in the election petition, which Is as follows:— 

"The respondent being doubtful of winning the election against her sister 
Smt. Vam Ramanarao who is a member of the Legislative Council 
very popular in political and official circles, occupying several places 
such as Director of Tribal, Financial Corporation member of the 

Senate, member of the State Tribes Advisory Council.requested 

Smt. Vani Ramanarao to withdraw from the election contest by pro¬ 
mising her to pay the amount.”. 


The allegation in the election petition suggests that Smt- Vani Ramanarao herself 
certainly claimed to be a duly nominated candidate and must have been considered 
by the election respondent to be a duly nominated candidate. Therefore Smt- Vani 
Ramanarao Is a candidate under section 79(b) of tTie Act. In this particular 
case, the case of the election petitioner is that the nomination of the respondent 
herself is not valid because she is a Dholi and not a member of the Scheduled 
Tribe- He has impleaded the respondent He has alleged corrupt practice against 
Smt- Vani Ramanarao and so Smt. Vani Ramanarao also has to be impleaded 
The withdrawal by Smt. Van! Ramanarao makes no difference t 0 the necessity 
to implead her In view of the various decisions of the Supreme Court referred 
to by my learned brother, Kumarayya J. in his order in application Nos. 150 and 
155 of 1997 when a corrupt practice is alleged against the withdrawn candidate. 
I. therefore, reject this contention. 

CONTENTION (C):— 


(t is true that the contention has been taken in application No. 166 of 1967 
which was filed after the issues w-ere framed but before any witness were examined. 
y 1 '^ was taken up at an earlier stage or in the written statement 

l ihMmv° n n f d0 n-r 0t f fec l t validity of the contention or affect 

the liability of the election petition to be dismissed under the mandatory provi- 

^oTteniblI Ctl ° n 86 1 ° f non- - omplJanre wlth section 82(b). This contention is 





SEC S(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER US, 19fi7/PAUSA 2, 188!) 47 2 J 


CONTENTION (D):— 

Shri Choudary contends that, in ordinary civil procedure as applied to suits 
and applications, the provisions of order 1 Rules 9, 10 and 13 C P C. are available 
whereas S. 8G(1) does not allow the benefit ol those provisions, that thereby S. 86(1) 
constitutes a procedure which is unduly disadvantageous to election petitioners 
as compared to ordinary civil procedure and that, therefore it contravenes Article 
14 of the Constitution. 

Article 329 of the Constitution runs as follows:— 

"Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution— 


(b) no election to either House of Parliament or to the House or either 
House of the Legislature of a Stale shall be called in question except, 
by an election petition presented to such authority and in such 
manner as may be provided for by or under any law made by the 
appropriate legislature.” . 

The law made by the appropriate legislature in this case is contained in the 
provisions of the representation of the People Act (42 of 1951) including S. 86(1)- 
This is the law as contemplated by the constitution. This fact is unaffected by 
+he non-obstante clause in the beginning of Art. 329. The representation of the 
people act 1951- was made under the legislative powers vested in Parliament under 
.item 72 of list 1 of Schedule VII which runs as follows:— 

‘‘Elections to Parliament, to the Legislatures of States... 

Articles 245 and 246 run as follows:— 

"245(1): Subject to the provisions of this constitution Parliament may make 
laws for the whole or any part of the territory of India ." 

“246(1): Notwithstanding anything in clauses (2) and (3) Parliament has 
exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters 
enumerated in list i in the seventh schedule.” 

This power to make laws is certainly subject to the Fundamental Eights contained 
in part III and in particular to Article 14. 

IN NAIN SUKH DAS AND OTHERS vs- THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 
AND OTHERS (AIR 1953 Supreme Court page 384), it was observed by the Supreme 
Court as follows: (at page 385) 

‘‘Now it cannot be seriously disputed that any law providing for elections 
on the basis of separate electorates for members of different religious 
communities offends against Article 15(1) of the Constitution.” 

Article 15 (1) is one of the Articles declaring fundamental rights in para III of the 
Constitution. It is clear that a law regarding elections to be valid should not 
contravene the provisions of part III of the constitution including article 14. 

In the STATE OF WEST BENGAL vs ANWAR ALI SARKAR AND ANOTHER 
AND HABIB MOHAMMAD AND TWO OTHERS (INTERVENERS) (1952 SCJ. 
page. 55 AIR. 1952 SC- Page 75) it was laid down procedure which was less advan¬ 
tageous to concerned accused than the ordinary procedure which was applicable 
to other accused in other cases was hit by Article 14 of the Constitution. It was 
held that, in as much as a certain act mentioned no basis for difference of treat¬ 
ment prescribed in the Act (West Bengal special courts Act- 1950 for trial of crimi¬ 
nals in certain cases and for certain offences), it contravened article 14. That 
act laid down substantially different rules for trial of offences and cases then laid 
down in the general law of the land. 

IN THE STATE OF BOMBAY AND ANOTHER vs. F. N. BAI.SARA (AIR. 1951 
Supreme Court nage 318), certain principles were laid down regarding article 14 
as follows:— (at page 326). 

“(1) the presumption i s always in favour of the constitutionality of an enact¬ 
ment. 

(3) The principle of equality does not mean that every law must have univer¬ 
sal application for all persons who are not by nature attainment or circumstances 
In the same position and the varying needs of different classes of persons often 
require separate treatment- 

***** 

(6) If a law deals equally with members of a well-defined calss, it is not obnoxi¬ 
ous a .? d , ^ is not ?P €n to the charge of denial of equal protection on the ground 
that it has no application to other persons-’ r 




4726 1 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1M® [Part IT- 


The 


e above principles have been extracted in a later decision o£ the Supreme court 
RAMAKRISHNA DALMIA vs. JUSTICE TENDOLKAR (AIR 1968 Supreme 


Court, page 538), 


In TRUAX vs. CORRIGAN (66 Lawyers' Edition page 254), the following pas¬ 
sage has been extracted with approval from the judgment m BOWMAN vs. LEWIS 
(25 Lawyers’ edition page £89) (at page 265). 

‘for as before said, it (i.e., the equality clause) has respect to persons and 
classes of persons. It means that no person or class of persons shall 
be denied the same protection of the laws which is enjoyed by other 
persons or other classes in the same places and under like circums¬ 
tances.”. 


IN FRANCIS BARBIER vs. PATRICK CONNOLLY (28 lawyers' edition page 
923 & 925) it was observed as follows (at pages 924-925). 

‘‘The 14th Amendment—undoubtedly Intended—that equal protection and 
security should be given to all under like circumstances In the enjoy¬ 
ment of their personal and civil rights; that all persons should be 
equally entitled to pursue their happiness and acquire and enjoy pro¬ 
perty/that thev should have like access to the Courts of the Country 
for the protection of their persons and property; the prevention of 
and redress of wrongs, and enforcement of contracts; that no impedi¬ 
ment should be interposed to the pursuits of any one except as applied 
to the same pursuits by others in like circumstances; that no greater 
fortunes should be laid upon one than are laid upon others in the 
same calling and conditions, and that in the administration of crimi¬ 
nal justice no different or higher punishment should be imposed upon, 
one than such as is prescribed to all for like offences.” 

Assuming for the sake of argument that order 1 rules 9, 10 and 13 CPC do 
not apply to an election petition under any circumstances under the representation 
of the People Act 1951 as it now stands, the question is whether it would amount 
to a contravention of Article 14. 

Order 1 Rules 9, 10 and 13 CPC. were held applicable to election petition un¬ 
der the representation of the People Act, 1951 as It stood in the year 1952 in 
JAGANNATH vs. JASWANT SINGH AND OTHERS (A.I.R. 1954 Supreme Court 
page 210). 

Order 1 Rules 9, 10 and 13 apply to civil proceedings which are covered by the 
Civil Procedure Code, 


The question is whether proceedings in election petitions are so substantially 
similar to civil proceedings under the civil procedure code that S. 86 (1), if it 
excludes the operation of order 1 rules 9, 10 and 13 would amount to unjust dis¬ 
crimination which-is hit by Article 14 of the Constitution- 


The nature of election proceedings has been dealt with in several authorita¬ 
tive decisions. S. 86 (1) makes a provision regarding part of the procedure in elec¬ 
tion proceedings section 87 (already extracted) lays down that provisions of 
Civil Procedure Code are to be followed subject to the provisions of the Represen¬ 
tation of the People Act and of any rules made thereunder. 


ANOTHER 1 ?ATtP^ qnn t AND ANOTHER «, TR1LOKI SINGH AND 

ajnlj l H ilxv (AI.lv 1957 Supreme Court pafic 444) ft hfiQ h#*pn tvint 

of corrupt practice arc quasi criminal in character and allegation thereto' 
sufficiently clear and precise to bring home the charges to the candidate- 

In JAGANNATH vs JASWANT SINGH AND OTHERS (AIR 1914 q r„„ r . 
p. 210 ) their Lordships of the Supreme Court obser/ed^f foUows (a t page 212) 
The general rule is well-settled that the statutory requirements of election 
8tTktly observed and that an election contest is not an 
unknown io'+n° 1 ' 3 3Ult cquit / but is Purely statutory proceeding 
law "power!” C ° mm ° n l0W ^ that the C0Urt Presses tmconmmn 


As an election contest is not a action at law or a suit in ennitv Qr „s u „ - 

dealing with an election contest has no common law power iTcannot be said that 
the court should apply to an election contest a procedure Whfch isp?escrt£e r 



Sec, S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 25, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


4727 


dealing with a civil action at law- It Is true that the trial of the election petition 
is held by the High Court but it does not necessarily follow that civil procedure 
should be followed. The High Court in dealing with civil proceedings, sits as 
a civil court and follows appropriate civil procedure. When the High Court deals 
with criminal proceedings, ancl sits as a criminal court, it follows the appropriate 
procedure including the criminal procedure code. When the High Court deals 
with election petition, which is a purely statutory proceeding unknown to 
common law the High Court must follow the procedure prescribed by valid 
statute for such proceeding. 

IN JAGANNATH vs. JASWANT SINGH AND OTHERS (AIR 1954 Su. Court 
page 210) it has also been laid down as follows (at page 212). 

“It is also well settled that it is a sound principle of natural justice that 
the success of a candidate who has won at an election should not be 
lightly inlerferred with and any petition seeking such interference 
must strictly conform to the requirements of the law- None of 
these propositions however has any application If the special law 
itself confers authority on a Tribunal to proceed with a petition In 
accordance with certain procedure and when it does not state the 

consequences of non-compliance with certain procedural require¬ 
ments laid down by it.In cases where the election law does 

not prescribe the consequence or does not lay down Denalty for non- 
compliance with certain procedural requirements of lhat law the 
jurisdiction of the Tribunal entrusted with the trial of the case is 
not ail'ected.” 

It cannot be said that the provision of S- 86(1) of the Act contravenes article 14 
on the alleged ground that the benefits of order 1 rules 9, 10 and 13 of the code 
of civil procedure are not available to the election petitioner. It Is open to the 
election law to make such relief available as was the case under the Representa¬ 
tion of the People Act, 1951 as it stood in 1952 for non-compliance with section 82 
or to make the provisions of order 1 rules 9, 10 and 13 not available to parties 
to an election petition. 

I find that the contention of Sri Choudary that S 86 (1) of the Acl Is Ultra 

vires because it contravened article 14 of the' Constitution is not tenable and 

cannot be accepted- 

Objections similar to In application no. 166 of 1967 praying for the same 
relief were also raised in the other election petitions as follows:— 

(1) application No 169 of 1967 In E.P 13/67; and 

(2) application No- 178 of 1967 in E.P. 6/67- 

In those petitions certain contentions other than those argued by Shri P. A, 
Choudary, which I have discussed already in these petitions, were raised and 
argued Sri Choudary adopts those contentions also. Those contentions have been 
dealt with by me in application Nos- 169 of 1967 and 178 of 1967 and rejected 
by me as not sufficient ground for refusing the relief asked for in the petition 
to dismiss the election petition concerned I, therefore, find no need to discuss 
them in these petitions separately or to repeat what I have slated about those 
contentions in those respective applications. I hold that the contentions raised 
by Shri P A Choudary and actually argued before me are not tenable- 

I respectfully follow the decision of my learned brother, Kumarayya, J. In 
Application Nos. 150 and 155 of 1967 and hold that election petition No- 5 of 
1967 suffers from defect of non-compliance of section 82(b) of the act for failure 
to implead Smt. Vanl Ramanarao as a party, though the allegation of corrupt 
practice is made against her and therefore has to be dismissed under S 86(1) 
of the Act, 

But. before finally disposing of application No. 166 of 1967 the other two 
applications have also got to be considered. 

APPLICATIONS NOS. 197 AND 198 OF 1967:— 

As already pointed out application No- 197 of 1967 is to implead Smt VanJ 
Ramanarao as party—respondent to E-P. No. 5 of 1967 and application No. 198 
of 1967 is to excuse the delay in filing application No. 197 of 1967, 


The order made by my learned brother, Kumarayya, J. in application Nos- 150 
and 155 of 1967 that the application for impleading a withdrawn candidate with 





.4728 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II¬ 


s view to cure the defect of non-compliance in the original election petition of 
S. 82(b) cannot be allowed, is binding on me- Application No- 193 of 1967 
petition for excusing of delay, cannot be allowed because, In any case, the relief 
sought for in Application No- 197 of 1987 by way of impleading the party cannot 
be granted, on the principle laid down in SHAMLAL TAKAR DASS AGGARWAD 
vs. PUNJAB NATAIONAL BANK LTD- AND OTHERS (AIR. 1980 Punjab page 
370) ■ 


I, therefore, dismiss application Nos. 197 and 198 of 1967. 

1 allow application No- 166 of 1967. I dismiss Election Petition No. 5 of 1967 
with costs; Advocate’s fee Rs. 200/- (two hundred only). 

In each of the applications, I direct party to bear his or her own costs- 

(Sd.) V- Krishnaswamy, 

Dy. Registrar. 
[No. 82/AP/5/G7-] 


New Delhi, the 11th December 1967 

S.O- 4470—In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act. 1951. the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order, pronounced on 
the 27th September, 1967, by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, Nagpur 
Bench, Nagpur, in Election Petition No. 16 of 19G7. 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY, NAGPUR BENCH, 

NAGPUR 

Election Petition No. 16 of 1967 
Ramprasad S/o Urkuda Baryekar and another —Petitioners 

Versus 

Sri Ashok Ranjitran Mehta— Respondent. 

In the matter of Election Petition Under Section 81 of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951 No. 43 of 1951). 

M/s. A. S. Bobde and S. G. Kukdey Ad vs —for the petitioners 

M/s. B. A. Masodkar, T. L. Junakar and N. N. Deshpande, Advs .—for the 
respondent- 

None for the Attorney General (though served). 

(GORAM:—L. M. PARANJPE. J.) 

27th Sept. 1907. 


JUDGMENT 

The petitioners, claiming to be electors, are questioning the election of the 
respondent. Shri Ashok Mehta, to the Parliament from the Bhandara Parlia¬ 
mentary Constituency, on the ground that he was disqualified for being chosen 
as a Member of Parliament as being a holder of office of profit under the Govern¬ 
ment- 


Under orders of the Election Commission of India, the General Elections to 
the Parliament were held in February 1967. The respondent was one of the 
candidates for the election- As a result of the counting of votes, the Returning 
■Officer declared on 26th February 1967 that the respondent, who had received 
the largest number of valid votes, was elected from that Constituency. 

were electors enroIled°in "the 'fectoral * 11 *n ' 6 legations: The petitioners 

fore entitled to question the elation Th® ^ Constituency and were there- 
toWing an office of profit Sf who ™ as , a Mlnlst er, was 
-Chairman of the Planning Cnmmi i 6 Government as a Member and Deputy 
(Prevention of DIsquaMcItion) Act ?Q 5 Q J (a) , of the Parliament 

an office, in so far as it ls an (N6 ' 10 of 1969) ’ u was declared that 

held by a Minister for the Uninn ^u jY P roflt under the Government of India 
qualify the holder thereof for beC ex-offino or by name, would not dis- 

Provision, in elTect and substance enti+iY 03 a Member of Parliament. This 
ana suDstance, entitles a person to carry with him the power 




Sec. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 4729 ' 


to remove the disqualification nl an office which he chooses to occupy, and there¬ 
fore this sub-section was in excess of the legislative competence conferred under 
article 102(1 )(a) of the Constitution of India, which permits the Parliament to 
legislate in respect of an office lor removing the disqualification of the holder. 
That provision does not contemplate leaving it to the holder to remove the dis¬ 
qualification of the office he may choose to occupy. This section 3(a) of the 
Parliament (Prevention of Disqualification) Act heing ultra vires of the powers 
of the Legislature, the disqualification earned by the respondent as holder oi an 
office of profit under the Government remains, and therefore his election is liable 
to the declared void under section 100(1) (a) of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951. 

The petition was challenged by the respondent on the basis of the following 
averments in his return and his affidavits in answer to interrogatories 

The claim of the petitioners that they were electors who were entitled to 
quesion the election was denied. The respondent was not holding on the date 
of election or even prior thereto, an office of profit which would entail a disquali¬ 
fication for being chosen as a Member of Parliament under article 102 of the 
Constitution of India- He was never a Member of the Planning Commission 
and drew no salary or allowances as such Member. He was directly appointed 
Its Deputy Chairman with effect from 2nd December 1963 and was getting a 
salary of Rs. 2,250/- in that capacity and other benefits carried b.v the post, but 
he was relinquishing a part of his monthly salary by voluntary surrender as 
detailed in the table annexed to the affidavit- On his appointment as a Minister 
of the Union, he resigned the salaried post of the Deputy Chairman of the Plan¬ 
ning Commission, thereby ceasing to get such salary or benefits of that post and 
began to get salary and allowances only under the Salaries and Allowances of 
Ministers Act, 1952 After resigning his full time post of Deputy Chairman of 
the Planning Commission which carried a salary end allowances, he took over 
in the same afternoon as Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission in his 
capacity as a Minister of the Union Government. This additional post of Deputy 
Chairman did not carry any salary or allowances and did not entitle him to get 
such salary or allowances. Under section 3(a) of the Parliament (Prevention of 
Disqualification) Act, 1959, it was declared that the office, in so far as it was an 
Office or profit under the Government held by him as a Minister, whether ex-officio 
or by name, shall not disqualify him from being chosen as a Member of Parlia¬ 
ment. This provision was not utlra vires of the powers of the Paliament but was 
within the powers given to it under article 102(1) (a) of the Constitution. He 
was therefore not disqualified for being chosen as a Member of Parliament. The 
petition has been filed for extraneous and is wholly mala fide. II was not 
filed or presented in accordance with law and was liable to be dismissed for that 
reason 

On these pleadings, the following issues were framed and my findings thereon 
nre stated opposite. 


Issues 


Findings 


1. Do the petitioners proved that they are 
entitled to challenge the election of the 
respondent as being electors in the 
Bhandara Parliamentary Constituency 
for the General Elections held in 1967, 
within the meaning of section 2(e) of 
the Representation of the People Act, 
1951?, 

2- (a) Do the petitioners prove that the 

respondent was holding an office of 
profit under the Government of India 
as being a Member of the Planning 
Commission? 

(b) Do the petitioners prove that the 
respondent was holding an office of 
profit under the Government of India 
on the date of election as the Deputy 
Chairman of the Planning Commission? 

fc) Does the respondent prove that he 
was holding the office of the Deputy 
Chairman of the Planning Commission 


They have not proved it. 


He was not proved to be a Mem 
ber of the Planning Commis¬ 
sion- 


Not proved. 


Yos. Respondent has proved it 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :' DECEMBER 23, 1967/PADSA 2, 1389 


47 $« 


[Part II— 


Issues 


Findings 


tn his capacity as the Minister ol Plan¬ 
ning, and therefore he was not dis¬ 
qualified from contesting the election’ 

3 Do the petitioners prove that the res¬ 
pondent’s election is liable to be declar¬ 
ed void under clause (a) of sub-section 
(1) of section 100 of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, read with arti¬ 
cle 103(1) of the Constitution? 

4, Does the respondent prove that the 
petition Is vexatious and false to the 
knowledge of the petitioners’ 

5. Relief and costs’ 


Not proved- 


V rxatlous but not false 


Petition dismissed with costs. 


Reasons for the findings 

Before going to the merits of the ease, I would first consider the preliminary 
objection raised on behalf of the respondent with regard to the jurisdiction of 
the Court to entertain and decide the petition or to adjudicate on the claim 
that a provision of the Parliament (Prevention of Disqualification) Act, 1959. 
hereinafter referred to as the Act No. 10 of 19.19. was ultra vires • His conten¬ 
tion, briefly stated, was as follows: 

The petitioners were claiming a declaration that the election of the respondent 
was void under clause (a) of sub-section (1) ol section 100 of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1911 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) read with article 102 
of the Constitution- In order to succeed, It was necessary for the petitioners to 
satisfy the Court in terms of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 100 that 
on the date of the election, the respondent was disqualified to be chosen tQ fill 
the seat under article 102 of the Constitution as he was holding an office of profit. 
Under article 102(1) (a) of the Constitution, the disqualification of a person for 
being chosen a member of either House of Parliament arises “if he holds any 
office of profit under the Government of India or the Government of any State, 
other than an office declared by Parliament by law not to disqualify its holder". 
The Parliament had enacted the law, namely. Act No. 10 of 1919, and section 
3(a) thereof declared that an ofilce held by a Minister, whether ex officio or by 
name, shall not disqualify the holder there for being chosen as a member of 
Parliament. The office of Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission held 
by the respondent was thus covered by this section 3(a) which was enacted under 
the powers given to the Parliament by the later half of clause (a) of article 102 
of the Constitution and consequently on the facts of the case and the averments 
In the petition, the respondent did not hold any office of profit which would 
have disqualified him from being chosen as a Member of Parliament. In \iew 
of this position and in the absence of any averment that the post was not an 
office of profit under the Constitution, no question of any disqualification of the 
respondent which could attract section 100(1)(a) of the Act arose, and therefore 
the Election Tribunal had no jurisdiction to proceed with the petition which does 
not make out a case that the office held ny the respondent wag other than an 
office declared by Parliament by law not to disqualify Its holder Though ordi¬ 
narily this Court had jurisdiction to go into the question of the vires of a legis- 
Jation^ such a question could not be allowed to be agitated in this election petition 
which itself was untenable because of absence of material averments as per 
article 102(1) (a) of the Constitution. The Court therefore had no jurisdiction 
to proceed with the decision of the election petition or the question of the vires 
of section 3(a) of Act No- 10 of 1959. 

While not disputing that the petition did not contain several material a\ er- 
rnents on the point raised by Mr, Masodkar, Mr. Bobde contested the objection on 
the following grounds: The petitioners had complied with the first part of sub- 
clause (a) of clause (1) of artie’e 102 of the Constitution, by pleading that the 
respondent was holding an office of profit under the Government of India. That 
office does not come within the exceptions carved out by the latter part of that 
sub-clause, because there was no law which excepts the respondent from being 
disqualified under the first part of that sub-clause. It was sufficient for the peti¬ 
tioners to plead the material fact that the respondent was holding an office of 
profit under the Government of India within the meaning of the first part of sub¬ 
clause (a), and if the respondent claimed to come within the exception carved 
out under the latter half of that sub-clause, by,section 3(a) of Act No- 10 of 1959 
it was for the respondent to plead the exception as was done in the present case. 



Sir. 3(ii)l the GAZETTE OP INDIA : DECEMBER 23. 1967/PAUSA 2, 1&89 


4731 


Having shown under the first part of sub-clause (.a) that the respondent was dis¬ 
qualified under the Constitution, it was not necessary for the petitioners to turther 
plead that the office held by the respondent was also covered by the latter half 
-of that sub-clause- It was not necessary for the petitioner to make negative plead¬ 
ings on the point- Despite the omission of the petitioners to plead the relevant facts, 
the respondent had raised no objection to the maintainability of the petition in 
his written statement and had gone to trial on the averments as they were made. 
The objection could not therefore be raised at this stage. Once the respondent 
set up the provision of law purporting to fall under the latter half of sub-clause 
OD of clause (1) of artic e 102 of the constitution, the petitioners were justified in 
■iaiming that the said provision in Act No- 10 of 1959 was ultra vires of the powers 
of the Parliament and lhe:efore It. was not a law within the meaning of that latter 
part of the sub-clause though the amendment might have been belated, the 

respondent had accepted the adjournment costs which were saddled as a condi¬ 
tion precedent for allowing the amendment and it was not now open to him to 
contend that the original petition or the petition as amended did not comply with 
the requirements of section 81 read with section 100(1) (a) of the Act. Even if 
the petitioners were to fail on merits, that would be no ground for saying that the 
petition itself was incompetent or that this Court had no jurisdiction either to 
entertain the petition or to go into the question of the vires of section 3(a) of Act 
No, 10 of 1959. 

There is some force in the contention of Mr. Masodkar that the petition as 
originally drafted suffered for want of several material facts. It cannot also be 
denied that the petition was wanting in several other particulars and material 
facts which were relevant and important for deciding the case. Even so, the res¬ 
pondent did not raise any objection on the ground of the tenability of the petition 
because of want of these pleadings, and treated the petition as having been validly 
made to this Court. I do not think that it would be proper or just to entertain 
or to uphold these technical objections at such a late stage. Justice ought not to 
be denied or defeated merely because of failure to raise certain points, particular¬ 
ly when that failure was not challenged at any earlier stage. After the return of 
the respondent came on record, the petitioners were allowed to amend the peti¬ 
tion by raising the ground that Act No- ID of 1959 was ultra vires of the powers 
of Par'iament, and therefore the respondent was not entitled to invoke the latter 
half of sub-clause (a) of clause (1) of article 102- The respondent has admit¬ 
tedly recovered costs which were saddled as 0 condition precedant for making the 
-amendment and has thus acquiesced in the amendment which, having been allow¬ 
ed, must relate back to the date of the presentation of the petition itself. Having 
done it, I do not think that it was now open to the respondent to challenge the 
maintainability of the petition for want of proper averments. That amendment 
has now become binding on the resppndent, and in that view, he cannot be allow¬ 
ed to urge that the Section petition itself was incompetent or that Court had no 
jurisdiction to decide the question of the vires of section 3(a) of Act No. 10 of 
1959, which would go to the root of the maintainability of the petition. The mere 
fact that the petitioners are not succeeding in their challenge to the vires of that 
provision of Act No. 19 of 1959 would not have the effect of making the petition 
itself Incompetent. Under these circumstances, the preliminary objection must 
stand rejected, 


Issue No. 1 .—Ml’. Bobde, advocate for the petitioner did not dispute that the 
’burden was on the petitioners to prove this issue that they were entitled to chal¬ 
lenge the election of the respondent as being elertors within the meaning of Sec¬ 
tion 2(a) of the Act. The petitioner No. 1, Ramprasad (P-W. 1), was the only 
witness examined for proving this issue. He deposed that he was enrolled as an 
■e’ector from the Tumsar Assembly Constituency No. 131 which forms parts of the 
Bhandara Parliamentary Constituency and his name was recorded at serial No. 
614 on page 7 of the copy of the electoral roll (Ex. 24). He also deposed that he 
had exercised his frachise in the last General Elections held on 18th February, 
1967. Under section 81 of the Act, an election petition calling in question any 
elcction may be presented by any candidate at such election or by an elector. 
Sub-section (1) of section 62 provides that no person who is not, and except, as 
expressly provided by the Act, every person who is, for the time being entered 
in the electoral roll of any constituency shall be entitled to vote in that consti¬ 
tuency. Section 2(A) defines an elector as “a person whose name is entered in 
the electoral roll of that constituency for the time being in force and who is not 
subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in section 16 of the Representa¬ 
tion of the People Act, 1950. Thus the order to support his claim that he is an 
-elector, it was necessary for the petitioner. Ramprasad (P.W. 1), to prove that 



4733 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


his name was duly entered in the electoral roll of the constituency which was in 
force at the time of the election. 

In thjs connection, a reference to rules 32 and 33 of the Registration of Electors 
Rules, 1960, would be useful. Rule 32 provides that after the roll for a consti¬ 
tuency has been finally published, one complete copy of the roll shall be main¬ 
tained at the office of the registration officer. Rule 33 provides that every person 
shall have the right to inspect the complete copy of the e’ectoral roll and other 
papers referred to in rule 32 and to get attested copies thereof on payment of the 
prescribed fees. 

In order to support his contention that his name was so entered in the Anally 
published electoral roll, the petitioners should have obtained and filed an attested 
copy of the re’evant portion of that roll. However, that was not done. Instead, 
the petitioner Ramprasad filed Ex, 24 which purports to be a part of the e'ectoral 
roll which was preliminarily published- It ,vas not disputed that after such preli¬ 
minary publications, people had a right to claim that a name may be included in 
the roll or may be deleted therefrom for stated reasons. Therefore, this preli¬ 
minary copy of the roll (Ex. 24) which was published on 1st January, 1966, can¬ 
not be treated as a copy of the final roll which was in force on the date of elec¬ 
tion, Moreover, this copy, though purporting to bear the fascimile signature 
of the Registration Officer, is not an attested copy within the meaning of rule 33 
of the Registration of Electors Rules 1960. The petitioner Ramprasad (P.W. 1), 
stated that this copy was given to him by Mr. Kumbhare advocate, prior to the 
election. It has to he noted that Mr. Kumbhare was a contesting candidate who had 
fought the election against the respondent. In fact, the petitioners were first 
trying to put Mr, Kumbhare in the witness box for introducing this uncertified 
and unauthorised copy but had to refrain from doing it on an objection being 
raised on behalf of the respondent that the name of Mr. Kumbhare was not stated 
in the list of witnesses The cross-examination of thjs petitioner, Ramprasad 
(P.W. 1), showed that he did not and cou’d not have any interest in the matter 
of this election petition and the petitioners obviously appear to have been used 
by some persons as tools for questioning the e’ection of the respondent. Even Mr. 
Bobde, advocates for the petitioners, could not deny that the copy, (Ex. 24), could 
not be admitted on record and could not be said to provide a proper proof of the 
petitioner’s name being entered In the final electoral roll which was in force on 
the date of election. 

The contention of Mr. Bobde however was that the entries in the final electoral 
'roll should be deemed to have been proved by the oral evidence of Ramprasad 
(P.W. 11. He was not in a position to substantiate or support that contention. 
The contents of a document cannot be proved by oral evidence and the original 
or an authenticated copy thereof ought to be on record but that hart admittedly 
not been done. The Registration Officer or the Returning Officer could have been 
summoned with the original electoral roll but that also was not done. The oral 
statement of the petitioner Ramprasad, that his name was included in the final 
e’ectoral roll cannot be accepted, particularly in view of his own stand that he 
was making the statement on the basis of the unauthorised copy of the preli¬ 
minary electoral roll (and not the final roll) which he had filed as Ex. 24. 

While not disputing that the petitioners had not substantiated their claim on 
this point, Mr. Bobde made two other submissions which connot possibly be 
accepted. The first was that the petitioners should now be given a chance after 
they had closed their case to summon the Returning Officer or the Electoral Regis¬ 
tration Officer with the final copy of the electoral roll. The issues were framed 
as fan back as on 7th August, 1967. The petitioners had ample time to cite and 
summon the relevant witnesses, but that was not done, it was specifically stated 
by their counsel that they would only examine the petitioners and no other wit¬ 
nesses. The petitioners were thus ambling with the possibility of succeeding on 
this scanty material, and having failed in that gamble, they cannot now be 
allowed to urge that they should be given one more chance at this stage to reopen 
the case and to adduce the requisite evidence. Litigants are expected to be 
diligent in all litigations, and particularly so, in election petitions. The cross- 
examination of Ramprasad (P.W. 1) showed that he had taken no steps whatso¬ 
ever to obtain the requisite documents or to apply for a certified copy of the e'ec¬ 
toral roll. Litigants, who have been so culpably negligent in the matter, of con¬ 
ducting their litigations, cannot claim the indulgence of being granted a chance at 
such a late stage to adduce proof in support of their claim. This prayer must 
stand rejected. 



Sec. S(il)] THE GA/ETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


4733 


The second point raised by Mr. Bombde in this connection was that the claim 
of the petitioner No. l Ramprasad that he had exercised his franchise at the elec¬ 
tion was not subjected to any cross-examination and therefore must be accepted, 
lie could not have been allowed to exercise his franchise without his name being 
entered in the final electoral roll, and therefore, it should be inferred in his favour 
that his name was and must have been included in the final electoral roll. Tl>,, 
Explanation to section 81 of the Act shows han an elector means a person who Is 
entitled io vote at the election to which the election petition relates, whether he 
has voted at such election or not. Therefore, the claim that he had voted at the 
election was neither here nor there. Moreover, the possibility of an elector casting 
his vote for or in the name of someone else, though his own name may not be in 
the electoral roll cannot be altogether ignored, I would pertinently point out 
that while framing issue No. 1 I had specifically referred to the definition of an 
elector in section 2 (oj of the Act, and therefore the petitioners must be deemed 
to have knowledge of tho necessity of obtaining and filing' a copv of the electoral 
roll, but that had not been done.' 


Mr. Bobde was then contending that even though the copy (Ex. 24) was not 
authenticated as required by rule 33 of the Registration of Electors Rules, I960, 
it was a minor defect and the evidence of the petitioner, Ramprasad, on the point 
should be accepted, I have already shown that this copy, whatever may be its 
value, is not of the final electoral roll but is a copy of the preliminary electoral 
roll as the note at the bottom of that copy would show. The matter of adducing 
proper proof that a person is an elector whose name is in the final electoral roll 
is not a formality but is a question of great substance. In Ranjit Sing}i v. Pritam 
Singh (A.I.R. 1900 S- C- IG20) the scheme of registration of electoral rolls was 
explained and it was pointed out that copy produced should by itself show that 
the candidate is qualified or not and the production of an incomplete copy of an 
electoral roll was a defect of a substantial character. The present case in hand 
stands on a worse footing, because the copy Is r.ot proved to be authentic 
Consequently, this is not a formal defect as claimed by Mr. Bobde and the 
petitioners must thank themselves for their failure to adduce Ihe requisite 
proof of their right to file the election petition. 


As adumbrated the petitioner No. 1, Ramprasad, has not proved that he was 
an elector within the meaning of section 2(e) of the Act, so as to entitle him to 
fite this election petition under section 81. No evidence, whatsoevei was led to 
prove that the petitioner No, 2 was an elector, and the learned advocates for 
the petitioners stated at the bar that they were not going to adduce any proof 
w'nh P reJard to the right of the petitioner No. 2 to file this election petition. The 
net result therefore was that the petitioners had failed to prove that they were 
within the meaning of section 2(e) of the Act, who could have filed 
this election petition Consequently, the election petition win have to s and 
dismissed on the ground that the petitioners have not pioved that they were 
entitled to file this election petition. I find accordingly. 

Issue No 2(a) and (b).—Beyond making a bland assertion that the respon¬ 
dent was holding an office of profit under the Government of India as a Mem¬ 
ber and Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission, the petitioners gave 
no further particulars regarding when the respondent was appointed a Mem* 
her as also the Deputy Chairman, of Planning Commission; who had appointed 
hfm' what was the profit {hat he was to get From these alleged offices; whether 
he was removable by the Government pf India or by some other authority, 
what authority could take disciplinary action against him; and from what 
Tource his salary was to flow. It was indeed surprising that the petition should 
have been filed without raising any pleas on these and olher incidental matters 
which were very material for deciding the claim that the respondent was hom¬ 
ing an office of profit under the Government of India. I should have expected 
the respondent to ask for these particulars, but the himself came forth to make 
a full statement on the allegations without there being any particulars He 
stated in his return and in the affidavits that the he was never appointed a 
Member of the Planning Commission but was directly appointed it? Deputy 
Chairman on 2nd December 1963 and held that post till he relinquished it on 
24th January 1966 on his appointment as the Minister of Planning m the Central 
Cabinet. He had further stated that on such relinquishment m his paid eharge 
of Deputy Chairman, the Prime Minister appointed him, in his capacity as the 
Minister of Planning, also to act as the Deputy Chairman, but he neither re- 
‘ ceived nor was he entitled to receive any remuneration for the work or charge 
of the office of Deputy Chairman which he was holding from 
1966 as the Minister of Planning. Even after this return and the affidavits in 
answer to the interrogatories were filed by the respondent, the petitioners took 



4734 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part li¬ 


no steps to amend theii' petition by pleading that even after ceasing to be the 
paid Deputy Chairman, he still continued to be a Member of the Planning 
Commission, or that he was getting or was entitled to get any profit out of 
that office which he was concurrently holding while being the Minister of 
Planning. If that was the case of the petitioner as was urged before me in 
the course of arguments, I should have expected the petitioners to amend their 
petition, so that the questions arising therefrom could have been put in issue 
and the parties could have led evidence thereon. Surprisingly, however, the 
petitioners, who are handling this petition in a cavalier like fashion, took no 
steps whatsoever to set out or plead their case or to give further and additional 
particulars. No explanation for the omission was forthcoming. 

While accepting the position that the petition was defective on these grounds, 
Mr. Bobde raised two points. One was that the petitioners could not have 
knowledge about the orders passed by the Planning Commission or the Central 
Government with regard to the Members and Deputy Chairman of the Plan¬ 
ning Commission, ana therefore they could not be blamed for not raising these 
points. That contention cannot stand any scrutiny. As the documents produced 
by the respondent would show, orders of appointment of Members and office¬ 
bearers of the Planning Commission were issued by the Cabinet Secretariat and 
were published in Ihe Government of India Gazette, Part I, Section 2. If they 
were serious on the point, the petitioners could have taken a thorough inspection 
of all the Government of India Gazettes, which would easily have been avail¬ 
able to them, at least in the library of this Court. Nothing of that sort was 
however done, and 1 am not prepared to accept the claim that the petitioners 
could not have possibly found out the real facts. 

The aforesaid contention of Mr, Bobde stood negatived by his next contention 
that in the interest of justice, the petitioners should now be allowed a chance to 
amend their petition by giving all these particulars and by leading evidence in 
support thereof. What the petitioners can now do could os well have been done 
by them in good time if they were serious in the matter, The cross-examination 
of Ramprasad (P. W. 1) shows that he is a petty labourer who is indebted and 
who has no interest whatsoever in the matter or prosecuting the petition. He 
did not even know what post the respondent was holding ana slated in his evi¬ 
dence that according to him, the respondent was an official of the Finance De¬ 
partment either as a Member or Chairman and getting a salary for that work. 
Mr. Bobde was not in a position to support hi? prayer for enabling the peti¬ 
tioners to wake up now and to start getting information and then incorporat¬ 
ing it in the petition, with a view to lead further evidence. As I remarked 
earlier, litigants, who are so culpably negligent In the matter of conducting their 
cases, cannot be allowed to have a second round of fight on the abstract grounds 
of interests of justice. Justice has to be done according to law, and when the 
petitioners have failed to take the steps which the law required them to do, 
they cannot now be allowed to say that they should be granted a chance for 
having a second round of fight with the respondent. This request is entirely 
untenable and must stand rejected, 

Mr. Bobde then took me through the return and the affidavits filed by the 
jespondent and the documents produced on his behalf for substantiating his con¬ 
tention that the respondent must have first been appointed a Member of the 
Planning Commission before he was appointed its Deputy Chairman and 

that the relinquishment of his charge as Deputy Chairman would still 

have the effect of his continuing as a Member and he would be entitled to get 
salary and profit from this notional post of a Member or the additional post of 
Deputy Chairman which he was holding in addition to the post of Minister of 
Planning. He wanted to support these contentions on the basis of certain 
statements in the affidavit of the respondent that the Deputy Chairman was 
appointed either from private Members or from Ministers, and that the Mem¬ 
bers were entitled to salary. He also relied on the documents produced by 
the respondent to urge that the salary which the respondent claimed to have 
obtained while working as the Deputy Chairman till 24th January 1906 was 

and could be only as a Member, His arguments no doubt evinced on enor¬ 

mous amount of labour and industry on his part, but it would not be possible 
to accept or consider them for the simple reason that the petitioners had plead¬ 
ed no case on the point. The logical conclusion of his arguments was that 
though the petitioners had pleaded nothing, a case could be made out for 
them from the return of the respondent, and the burden was not on the 
petitioners but on the respondent to establish that he was hot holding r,n office 
of profit. Both these positions were entirely untenable and unsupportable, and 
Mr, Bobde did not dispute that the mere fact that some loose language may 
have been used In the return and the affidavits of the respondent or In the 



tec. S(Ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA, 2, 1889 


orders given to the Accountant General Central Revenues, New Delhi, with 
regard to the salary of the Members of the Planning Commission, w'ould not 
have the effect of making out for the petitioners a case which they had never 
pleaded. 

In Deorao v. Keshav (A.I.R. 1958 Bombay 314) the tests to be satisfied for 
proving that a person was holding an office of profit were laid down. The 
principal tests mentioned were : (i) what authority has the power to make 
an appointment to the office concerned, (ii) what authority can take discipli¬ 
nary action and remove or dismiss the holder of the office, and (iii) by whom 
and from what source is his remuneration paid. Mr. Bobde was only relying 
on the observation that the third test regarding the source of remuneration 
was less important, but that did not mean that the other two tests were nega¬ 
tived or that the third test was non-existent. As adumbrated, the petitioners 
have neither pleaded nor proved any facts which would go to show that the 
respondent was holding an office of profit either as a Member or Deputy Chair¬ 
man of the Planning Commission, or that the office was under the Government 
of India. In this connection Mr. Bobde made certain comments on the res¬ 
pondent with reference to his statements in the return and the affidavits, as 
also the documents produced by him. I am afraid, that criticism was not justi¬ 
fied. The learned advocate for the respondent had specifically offered to put 
the respondent in the witness-box if the petitioners desired to cross-examine 
him, but the learned advocate for the petitioners had stated that they did not 
want to cross-examine the respondent. Having denied that opportunity to 
cross-examine him the criticism levelled against him was not fair or justified. 
In the absence of pleadings and proof on the side of the petitioners and with 
the return, and particularly the affidavits of the respondent, remaining unre¬ 
butted, the conclusion must be inevitable that the respondent was not a Mem¬ 
ber of the Planning Commission at any time and did not remain or continue 
to be a Member on his relinquishment of the salaried post of Deputy Chairman 
from 24th January 1900 and that he was not getting and was not entitled to 
get any profit from the post of Deputy Chairman which he was holding in his 
capacity as the Minister of Planning from 24th January 1966 and on the date 
of election, I find accordingly. 

Issue No. 2(c): Section 3(a) of Act No. 10 of 1959 Is in the following words: 

“It is hereby declared that none of the following offices, in so far as it 
is an office of profit under the Government of India or the Gov¬ 
ernment of any State, shall disqualify the holder thereof for being 
chosen as, or for being, a member of Parliament, namely:— 

(a) any office held by a Minister, Minister of State or Deputy Minister 
for the Union or for any State, whether ex-officio Or by name: 

* * m * * 

The notifications dated 31st January and 11th February 1960 produced by the 
respondent show that the respondent relinquished his charge of the salaried 
office of Deputy Chairman on 24th January 1966 and on the same day he took 
over charge also as Deputy Chairman on his appointment to that post in his 
capacity as the Minister of Planning. Paragraph 3 of the letter dated 21st May 
1953 from the Deputy Secretary to the Government o f India in the Planning 
Commission, to the Accountant General, Central Revenues, New Delhi, shows 
that Minister Members or Minister Deputy Chairman were not entitled to get 
any salaries when they held such posts while being Ministers. That was 
obviously because the Ministers were getting their salaries under the Salaries 
and Allowances of Ministers Act, 1952. The aforesaid documents would show 
that while holding the post of Deputy Chairman as a Minister, the respondent 
was not entitled to get any profit or salary; and even if he was to get any 
profit or salary, that post of Deputy Chairman held by him bv name, as also 
ex-officio, would not result in a disqualification under article 102 of the Consti¬ 
tution because of the provisions of section 3(a) of Act No. 10 of 1959. It will 
therefore have to be held that the respondent was holding the office of Deputy 
Chairman of the Planning Commission from 24th January 1666 in his capacity 
as the Minister of Planning and therefore he was not disqualified from contest¬ 
ing the election. I find accordingly. 

That would take me to the question of the vires of section 3(a) of Act No. 10 
of 1959. The contention of Mr. Bobde in this connection was as follows: 
Section 3(a) of Act No, 10 of 1959 is ultra vires of article 102(1) fa) of the 
Constitution and is void in so far as it purports to remove the disqualification 
attaching to any and every office held by a Minister, not only ex-officio but 
also by name. The incidence and effect of the provision is that whenever a 
particular person holds any office, known or unknown, the person himself 





4736 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, I967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


removes the disqualification of all such offices not only t>v fortuitous circum¬ 
stance that he happens to be also a Minister but further that he occupies the 
office by name. Thus, such a person In effect and substance carries with him. 
the power to remove the disqualification of an office which he chooses to occupy. 
The said sub-section 3(a) of Act No. 10 of 1159 is therefore in excess of the 
legislative competence conferred under article 102(1) (a) of the Constitution 
which permits the Parliament to legislate only in respect of an office for 
removing the disqualification to the holder, and docs not contemplate leaving 
it to the holder to remove the disqualification of the offices he may choose to 
occupy. Mr. Masodkar, advocate for the respondent, contended that these sub¬ 
missions were unwarranted. 


The basic assumption' of Mr. Bobde that the person himself removes the 
disqualification of offices held by him as a Minister, as also by name, is not 
warranted. He is also not right in assuming that the person, m effect and in 
substance carries with him the power to remove the disqualification of an 
office, In' the first half of sub-clause (a) of clause (1) of article 102 cf the 
Constitution a person is disqualified for being chosen as a Member of Parlia¬ 
ment if he holds any office of profit. The latter half of that sub-clause limits 
the generality of the expression "any office of profit” in the first half by the- 
clause “other than an office declared by Parliament by law not to disqualify its 1 
holder”. There is no limitation imposed on the powers of the Parliament to, 
pass an Act with regaard to declaring by law that an office would not disqualify 
its holder This unlimited and wide power has been given to the Parliament 
under the Constitution itself and therefore Mr. Bobde was not right in saying 
that the Parliament acted in excess of the power given to it. When the power 
was unlimited and untrammelled and was subject only to the discretion of the 
Parliament itself, there was no force in the contention that the Parliament had 
exceeded its powers in enacting clause (a) of section 3 of the Act No. 10 of 
1859 . 


The second assumption of Mr. Bobde that the power to remove the disqualifi¬ 
cation of his office is wasted in the officer or official or that officer or official 
carries with him the power to remove the disqualification of the office which he- 
chooses to occupy is again unwarranted. By this provision it is not left to the 
individual to decide to which office held by him the disqualification should attach 
or not. The Parliament has made a wide provision that none of the offices, m so 
far as they are affices of profit under the Government of India shall disqualify the 
holder thereof for being chosen os a Member of Parliament if the office is held by 
a Minister either ex-officio or by name. It is not the choice of an individual to. 
hold a particular office, and at any rate, thre is nothing on the record of this case 
to show that the respondent had chosen to occupy this office by his own. volition. 
On the contrary, the record discloses that the office was imposed on him by the 
order of the Prime Minister who had appointed him to he the Deputy Chairman 
of the Planning Commission. In view of that fact, there would be no question 
of saying that he had chosen to occupy that office of Deputy Chairman by his own 
volition or that he has carried with him the power to remove the disqualification. 
The disqualification stands removed by the Parliamentary enactment and not by 
the voluntary choice of the individual Minister who happens to hold a particular 
office of profit, whether ex officio or by name, in addition to his office of Minister.. 
The Parliament had purported to act under the power given to it by the latter 
half of sub-clause (a) of clause (1) of article 102 of the Constitution by declaring 
in respect of an office that the disqualification, otherwise attaching thereto, shall 
not attach if the office is held by a Minister, whether ex officio or by name, Mr. 
Bobde was not in a position to substantiate his contention that the Parliament had' 
enacted that provision in excess of the legislative competence conferred upon it 
by article 102(1) (a) of the Constitution. 


Mr Bobde was then trying to raise several other grounds for saying that the- 
provision was uftra vires of the powers of the Parliament, but none of them were 
raised by him till now and obviously he could not be permitted to raise these new 
grounds of which the other side hao no notice, If the petitioners wanted to raise 
these grounds, there was nothing to prevent them from incorporating those grounds 
in the amendment to the petition. One such ground was that the Parliament had 
not applied its mind. In the first place, it is not open to the Court to inquire 
in what manner the Parliament has applied its mind to the question and it would 
not be permissible to examine the proceedings of the Parliament to find out in. 
what manner the enactment was passed. Presumably, the Parliament knows 
what are the duties of the Ministers and what other offices of profit they are likely 
to hold, either ex officio or by name. They have made this very wide enactment 
td cover all such offices, and Mr. Bobde was not right to assuming that the Parlia¬ 
ment had done it without applying Its mind to the questions involved therein. 





S'tO. S(ii)j 'I. H E GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1 % 7 /PAUSA 2, 1889 4737 


Mr. Bobde has not shown any satisfactory reason or ground for upholding his 
contention that the provision was ultra vires of the powers of the Parliament under 
article 102(1) (a). I may mention that this question of the vires of that 
provision wou’d not fall for determination in the present case because of the 
failure of the petitioners to establish their basic assumptions that the office of 
Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission, which the respondent was hold¬ 
ing as the Minister of Planning on the date of election, was an office of profit or 
was an office of profit under the Government of India. I find that the provision 
in section 3(a) of Act No. 10 of 1959 Is not ultra vires of the powers of the Parlia¬ 
ment, and the respondent has proved that even if the office which he was holding 
was an office of profit under the Government, he was not disqualified from con¬ 
testing the election In view of the provision of section S(a) of Act No. 10 of 
1959. 

Issue No. 4.—The cross-examination of the petitioner No. 1, Ramprasad 
<P.W.l) would cl ear 1 y show that he has been used only as a tool by someone else 
and the petition Is vexatious. However, there is no definite material to come to 
the conclusion that it was false to the knowledge of the petitioners. 

Issue No. 3.—In view of the findings recorded on the other issues, I find that 
the petitioners have failed to prove that the respondent’s election was liable to 
be declared void under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 100 of the Repre¬ 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, read with artie’e 102(1) of the Constitution. 

Issue No. 5.—In the result, the petition is dismissed with costs. The Peti¬ 
tioners shall bear their own costs and shall pay the costs of the respondent. Plea¬ 
der’s fees Rs. 3,600. A copy of the findings and the judgment be sent to the 
Election Commission. 

By the Court, 

Sd./- S. R. Bhave, 

Addl. Special Officer. 

24 - 10 - 1967 . 

[No. 82/16/Nagpur/67 J 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 13th November 1967 

S.O. 4471—Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Prithvi 
Singh, Village Barav Talla Kalifat, P.O- Barav, District Chamoli a contesting 
candidate for election to the House of the People from Tehri Garhwal Constituency 
has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses within the time and In 
the manner required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules 
made thereunder; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate, 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justifi¬ 
cation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Prithvi Singh to be disqualified for 
being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this Order, 

[No. UP-HP/1/67.] 

New Delhi, the 14 th November 1967 

S-O. 4472.—Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Dcvl Saran 
Tyagi, Village Makarmatpur Slhera, P.O- Niwari, Tehsll Ghaziabad, District Meerut, 
a contesting candiate for election 1o the House of the People from Baghpat 
constituency has failed to lodge ;m account of his electidn expenses as required 
by the Representation of the Pioplc Act. 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any good 
reason or explanation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance cA section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Devi Saran Tyagi to be disqualified 
for being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this Order. 


[No. UP-HP/81/67(i).] 



4738 TH E GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part IF 


New Delhi, the 20 th November 1967 

S.O. 4473.— Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Ram Krishna 
Rai, 24-Mastcr Zahurul Hasan Road, Allahabad, District Allahabad, a contesting 
candidate for election to the Hotuse of the People from Chall consituency, has 
failed to lodge an account of his election expenses within the time and in the 
manner required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules 
made thereunder; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate, 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no gobd reason or justifi¬ 
cation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Ram Krishna Rai to be disqualified 
for being chosen as, and fok being, a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of 
three years from the date of this Order. 

[No. UP-HP/57/67.] 


New Delhi, the 29 th November 1907 

S.O- 4474.— Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Venkat Rao 
Raisum, Sukulpur, Pratapgarh, a contesting candidate for election to the House 
of the People from Pratapgarh Constituency, has failed to lodge an account of 
hla election expenses within the time required by the Reperesentatlon of th'e 
People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And, whereas, the notice issued to the candidate to show cause, if any, why he 
should not be disqualified for the failure, could nett be served on him as his 
whereabouts were not known; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Venkat Rao Raisum to be disqualified 
for being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this Order- 

[No- UP-HP/23/67.] 

S.O. 4475.—Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Ram]i Rai, 
Village and P.O. Sherpurkalan, District Ghazipur a contesting candidate for election 
to the House of the People from Ghazipur Constituency, has failed to lodge an 
account of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any good 
reason or explanation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Ramjl Rai to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period <Vf three years 
from the date of this Order. 

[No. UF-HP/50/67,1 


New Delhi, the 30 th November 1967 

S.O. 4476.— Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Ambika 
Prasad Pande, Village and P.O. DakLngaon Keyar, District Sultanpur a contesting 
candidate for election to the House of the People from Amethl Constituency, has 
failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any good 
reason ok explanation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Ambika Prasad Pande to be disqualified 
for being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament 
Ok of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of 
three years from the date of this Order. 

[No. UP-HP/24/07.1 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


4739 


S-O. 4477.—Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Man Singh, 
Village Ilolepur, P.O. Ililsari, District Farrukhabad a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from Farrukhabad Constituency, has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any good 
reason or explanation for the failure; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Man Singh to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order. 

(No. UP'HP/68/67.] 


S-O- 4478-—Whereas the Election Commission Is satisfied that Shri Kalka Prasad, 
Village and P.O. Rajpur, District Kanpur a contesting candidate for election to 
the House of the People from Ghatampur Constituency, has failed to lodge an 
account of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any goo.d 
reason or explanation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Kalka Prasad to be disqualified for 
being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a periert of three 
years from he date o( this Order- 

[No. UP-HP/G.'i /67(1),J 

®-°- 4479-—Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Manni Lai 
Village and PO. Baraur, District Kanpur a contesting candidate for election to 
the House of the People from Ghatampur Constituency, has failed to lodge ah 
account of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given anv good 
reason or explanation for the failure; 


Now. therefore, m pursuance of section 10 A of the said Act. the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Manni Lai to be disqualified for being 
fkosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 

from the V date ! oTthfc Order ^ Cl1 ° f 2 Stat ° f ° r 3 period of three ^ 

[No. UP-HP/63/07(2)■] 

New Delhi, the 1st December 1967 

. 44 J°vr Wh ? r i e ^ t 130 Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Tarlocban 
Hospital, Sadar Bazar, Karnal. a contesting candidate for election to 
the House of the People from Kaithai Constituency, has failed to lodge an account 

mafias srtLtLsr *<*«»*»*. *«, »»i, 

ofSSul'to S d ,h,“".*r?: au ” ”“ ce has «•*» 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act the Flection 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Tarlochan Singh to be disqualified ter 
being chosen as. and for being, a member of either blouse of Parliament r,r n f 

LcBl!latl ™ c ™““ «< a » P “, 

rNo. HN-HP/3/67/ (6). | 

S O. 4481. -Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri T* r q 
S undara Rao. Journalist, Bhadrachalam (Andhra Pradesh) a contesting ran am 



4740 the gazette of India ; December 23 , 1967/pausa 2 , 1889 [Part n- 


And whereas, alter considering the representation made by the said candidate, 
the Election Commission Is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justifi¬ 
cation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, In pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri T. G. S. Sundara Rao to be disqualified 
for being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of. a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this Order. 

[NO. AP-HP/5/67.j 

S O. 4482, —Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Khubi Elam 
of Village Dabodha, P O. Farukh Nagar, District Gurgaon, a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from Mahendragarh Constituency, has 
failed to lodge an account of his election expenses in the manner required by 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason Or explanation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Khubi Ram to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order. 

[No- HN-HF/7/B7/(7).] 


SO 4483-. —Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Ganga Dhar, 
House No 805, Nal Basti, Gurgaon, a contesting candidate for election to the 
House Cf the People from Mahendragarh Constituency, has failed to lodge an 
account of his election expenses in the manner required by the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure; 

Now therefore, In pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Ganga Dhar to be disqualified for 
being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order. 

[No. HN-HP/7/67/ (8).] 


S-O. 4484.— Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Kalyan, 
Village Durgapur Basoti, P-O. Shikarpur, District Bulandshahr, a contesting candi¬ 
date for election to the House of the People from Bulandshahr Constituency, has 
failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
good reason or explanation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Kalyan to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council o>f a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order. 

[No. UP-HP/78/67.J 


S.O. 4485-—Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Ram Bharose 
Lai Katiyar. 14/13-Civil Lines, Kanpur a contesting candidate for election to the 
House of the People from Kannauj Constituency, has failed to lodge an account 
of his election expenses in the manner required by the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate, 
the Election Commission Is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justifi¬ 
cation for the failure; 



Sec. i(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/I'AUSA 2, 1889 


4741 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Ram Bharose Lai Katiyar to be dis¬ 
qualified for being chosen as. and for being, a member of either House of 
Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a 
period of three years from the date of this Order. 

[No. UP-HP/67/67.] 

S-O. 4486.—Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Shobha Singh, 
Mohalla Khattriwara, Slkandrabad, District Bulandshahr a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from Khurja Constituency, has failed to 
lodge an account of his election expenses in the manner required by the Repre¬ 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate, 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justifi¬ 
cation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Sho-bha Singh to be disqualified for 
being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this Order. 

[No- UP-HP/77/67 ] 


New Delhi, the 2nd December 1967 

S-O. 4487. —Whereas the Election Commission Is satisfied that Shri Jagdish Rah 
8A/101, Western Extension Area, Karol Bagh, New Delhi, a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from Gurgaon Constituency, has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses In the manner required bv the Repre¬ 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Jagdish Rai to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three vears 
from the date of this Order- 

LNo. HN-HP/8/67/(9).] 


S.O. 4488 —Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Ram Saran 
pass, s/o Han Ram, House No. 136, Mohalla Santokhpura, G.T. Road, Phagwara 
Kapurthala District, a contesting candidate for election to the House of the People 
from Phillaur Constituency, has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses 
within the time and in the manner required bv the Representation of the Peonle 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; P 

A J?d whereas, after considering the representation made bv the said candidate 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or iustifi ’ 
cation for the failure. J 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A the said Acb the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Ram Saran Dass to he disqualified for 
being chosen as. and for being, a member of either Hosue of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from tha date of this Order. 

[No, PB-HP/3/67/ (1).] 


S.O, 4489.- Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Gouiacrln 
Hansip Village, B.P.O, Hansip (Manipur), a contesting candidate for election 
to the House ol the People from Outer Manipur Constituency, has failed to lodce 
an account of his election expenses within the time and in the manner reoulred 
by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said Candida I e 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or 
hcation for the failure; ‘ J 



4742 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


Now, therefore, In pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com¬ 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Goujagin to be disqualified for being chosen 
as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legislative 
Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from the 
date of this Order. 

[No. MR-HP/2/07 (19)-] 

S-O- 4490.—Whereas the Election Commission Is satisfied that Shri Dhararn 
Chand Jallan, A]/11, Kailash Colony, New Delhi, a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from Gurgaon Constituency, has failed to 
lodge an account of his election expenses within the time required by the Repre¬ 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the notice to show reason or explanation for the failure has 
been received back undelivered; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Dhararn Chand Jallan to be disqualified 
for being chosen as. and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of 
three years from the date of this Order, 

[No. HN-HP/6/67/ (16)-] 


New Delhi, the 5th December 1907 

S.O. 4491. —Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Jia Ram, 
House No- 163, Village Kurar Ibrahim, Tahsil Sonepat, a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from Roht.uk Constituency, has failed to 
lodge an account of hla election expenses aa required by the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Jia Ram to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order. 

[No. HN-HP/4/G7/(10).] 


S-O- 4492 —-Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Bhim Singh, 
House No. 272, Village and P O. Dharann, Tahsil Gohana, a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from Rohtak Constituency, has failed to 
lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the aald Shri Bhim Singh to be disqualified for being 
chosen aa, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order, 

[No. HN-HP/4/67 (11),] 


New Delhi, the 0th December 1907 

S.O. 4493,— Whereas the Election Commission Is satisfied that Shri Nathu Dass, 
V. Phefana, District Ganganagar a contesting candidate for election to the House 
of the People from Ganganagar constituency, has failed to lodge an account of 
his election expenses within the time and in the manner required by the Repre¬ 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate 
the Election Commission Is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justifi¬ 
cation for the failure; 



Seo, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


4743 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com¬ 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Nathu Dass to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legis¬ 
lative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order. 

[No. RJ-HP/1/67C1).] 

S.O. 4494._Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Bachna 

Ram, Nohar (Ganganagar) a contesting candidate for election to the House of 
the People from Ganganagar constituency, has failed to lodge an account of his 
election expenses within the time and in the manner required by the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder. 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate, 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justifi¬ 
cation for the failure; 


Now therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Bachna Ram to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for’ being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legis¬ 
lative Assembly or Legislative Council of a Stale for a period of three years from 
the date of this Order. 

[No. RJ-HP/1/67(2) ■] 


S-O- 4495.—-Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Harphul 
Singh of Village and P-O. Nehla, Tahsil Fatahabad, a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from Sirsa Constituency, has failed to lodge 
an account of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any reason, 
or explanation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, In pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Harphul Singh to be disqualified for 
being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order. 

[No. HN-HP/9/67/(12j,1 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1967 

S.O. 4436-—Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Daryao Singh, 
Delhi Road, Rohtak, a contesting candidate for election to the House of the People 
from Jhajjar Constituency, has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses 
as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any reason 
or explanation for the failure; ! | ..l 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com¬ 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Daryao Singh to be disqualified for being 
chosen as. and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legis¬ 
lative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from 
the date of this Order. 

[No. HN-HP/5/67(13) .1 

S-O. 4497.—Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Bhlm Singh, 
Village and P.O. Sehri, Tehsil and District Rohtak, a contesting candidate for elec¬ 
tion to the House of the People from Jhajjar Constituency, has failed to lodge an 
account of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any reason 
or explanation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com¬ 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Bhirn Singh to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 




4744 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1%7/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Pakt II- 


Tegislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order. 

[No. HN-HP/5/67(14).] 


S.O 4498.—Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri l.achhmi 
TSIarain. Kath Mandi, Ward No. 3, Sonepat, a contesting candidate for election to 
the House of the People from Jhajjar Constituency, has failed to lodge an account 
of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1G51, 
and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any reason 
or explanation for the failure; 


Now therefore, In pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com¬ 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Laehhmi Narain to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legis¬ 
lative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from 
the date of this Order. 


LNo. HN-HP/5/67(15).] 


New Delhi, the 8th December 1967 

S.O. 4499.—Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Somar Sal 
a contesting candidate for election to the House of the People from Surguja 
constituency, has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses in the 
manner as reouited by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules 
made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section l()A of the said Act. the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Somar Sai to be disqualified for being 
chosen as. and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the elate of this Order- 


[No. MP-HP/10/07-1 


New Delhi, the 12th December 1967 

S.O. 4500—-Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri N. Aehuthan 
Nair, Devlcoiam Estate. Workers’ Union Office, Munnar (Kerala State), a contesting 
candidate for election to the House of the People from the Muvattupuzha Parlia¬ 
mentary Constituency, has failed tp lodge an account of his election expenses 
within the time required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the 
Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notice, has not given any reason 
or explanation for the failure; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com¬ 
mission hereby declares the said Shri N. Aehuthan Nair to be disqualified for 
being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament, or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period cf three years 
irem tha date of this Order. 


[No. KL-IIP/11/67(1).] 


By Order, 

K S. RAJAGOPALAN, Secy. 



Sec, 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 33, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 4745: 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1967 

S.O. 4501 —In exercise of the powers conferred by section .3 of Delhi Special 
Police Estab'ishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1946), the Central Government hereby specifies 
the following offences as the offences, which are to be Investigated by the Delhi 
Special Police Establishment, namely :— 

(a) Offences punishable under sections 277 and 278 of the Income Tax Act, 
1961 (43 of 1961). 

(b) Offences punishable under sections 9 and 17 of the Central Excises and 
Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944). 

fc) Offences punishable under sections 196, 199 and 200 of the Indian Penal 
Code (45 of 1360). ■ 

(d) Attempts, abetments and conspiracies in relation to or in connection 
with one or more of the offences mentioned in clauses (a) to (c) and 
any other offence committed in the course of the same transaction arising 
out of the same facts. 

[No, 25/4'fft-AVD-II.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1967 

S.O. 4502 In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of section 5 

of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1946). the Central 
Government hereby extends to the States of Andhra Pradesh, Assam. Bihar, 
Gujarat, Haryana. Kerala. Madhya Pradesh, Madras, Maharashtra, Mysore, Naga¬ 
land, Orissa, Punjab, Rajasthan. Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, the powers and 
jurisdiction of the members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment for the 
investigation of any offences specified in the Schedule hereto annexed. 

Schedule 

(a) Offences punishable under sections 277 and 278 of the Income Tax Act, 
1961 (43 of 1961). 

(b) Offences punishable under sections 9 and 17 of the Central Excises and 
Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944). 

(c) Offences punishable under sections 198, 199 and 200 of the Indian Penal 
Code (45 of 1860). 

(d) Attempts, abetments and conspiracies In relation to or in connection 
with one or more of the offences mentioned in ciauses (a) to (c) and 
any other offence committed in the course of the same transaction arising 
out of the same facts. 

[No- 25/4/04-AVD-II.] 
C- A. NA1R, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 12th December 1967 

S O. 4503. —In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (2) of article 77 of 
the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules further to amend 
the Authentication (Orders and Other Instrument) Rules, 1958 namely; — 

1, (1) These rules may be called the Authentication (Orders and Other Instru¬ 
ments) Eight Amendment Rules, 1907. 

(2) They shall come Into force on the date of their publication in the Official’ 
Gazette, 

2. In rule 2 of the Authentication (Orders and Other Instruments) Rules, 1958. 
for clause (ab) the following clause shall be substituted, namely :— 

"(ab) in the case of orders and other instruments relating to the Ministry of 
Finance, Department of Revenue and Insurance, by the Commissioner 
(Revision Applications) or the Director or Assistant Director, Tax 
Credit (Export) Division, in that Department; or". 

[No. 3/11/67-Pub—I.} 
K. R. PRABHU. .It. Secy- 



474 s THE,- GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


New Delhi, the 15th December 1967 

S O. 4504. —In exercise ol the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
Of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
.amend the Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay) Rules, 1966- 

2. These rules may be called the Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay) Rules, 
1907.' 

3. In schedule to the Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay) Rules, 1966, 

(i) Under the heading "Medical Department”, for the existing entry in 

column 4 against Item No. 14, the following entry shall be inserted:— 
Rs. 125—4—145—EB—4—1651— B —5—200. 

(ii) Under the heading ‘Statistical Department’ for the existing entry in 

column 4 against item No- 7, the following entry shall be inserted:— 

r s . 125—4—145—EB—4—1651—B—5—200. 

[No. 1/16/65-HMT.) 
V. P- MALHOTRA, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 5th December 1967 

S.O. 4505. —In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309 of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the National Savings Organisation (Class I and Class II Posts) Recruitment 
Rules, 1963, namely: — 

1 . (l) These rules may be called the National Savings Organisation (Class I 
and Class II Posts) Recruitment (Second Amendment) Rules, 19b h 

1,2) They shall come into force on the date of the publication of these rules in 
the Official Gazette- 

2. In the Schedule to the National Savings Organisation (Class I and Class II 
Posts) Recruitment Rules, 1963— 

(i) against items 1 to 4, in the entries in column 10, for the words "Transfer/ 

Deputation ordinarily not exceeding four years”, the words and 
brackets ‘‘Transfer/Deputation (period of deputation ordinarily not 
exceeding four years)” shall be substituted; 

(ii) against items 5 and 7, in the entries in column 10, for the words "Trans¬ 

fer/Deputation ordinarily not exceeding three years”, the words and 
brackets "Transfer/Deputation (period of deputation ordinarily not 
exceeding three years)” shall be substituted. 


[No. F. 16(12) -INS/67 • ] 
Y. S. RAJAGOFALAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 


New Delhi, the 8th December 1967 

SO. 4506—In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) the Central Government, on the recommenda¬ 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India, extends for a period of one year till the 31st 
^December, 1968, the exemption granted in S.O. 3906 dated the 24th December I960, 
to the National Bank of Pakistan, Calcutta and the Habib Bank ptd., Bombay, 
from the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the said Act, 

[No. F.l7(17)-BC/66.] 
V- SWAMINATHAN, Under Secy 





Sec, 3(U)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 2S, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1899 4747 


(Department of Economic Affair a) 

New Delhi, tne 12 th December 1967 

S.O. 4507.—In pursuance of sub-section (2) of section 21 of the Industrial 
Finance Corporation Act, 1948 (15 of 1948), the Central Government, on the 
recommendations of the Board of Directors of the Industrial Finance Corporation 
of India hereby fixes 6 per cent per annum as the rate of interest payable on 
the bonds to be issued by the said Corporation in January, 1988 and maturing 
on the 1st January, 1989. 

[No. F. 2(67)-Corp/67.] 
A. K. NATARAJAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Stamps 

New Delhi, the 2nd December 1967 

S.O, 4508.—In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section ( 1 ) 
Of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central Government 
hereby remits the stamp duty with which the ad hoc bonds to the value of thirty 
five lakhs of rupees to be Issued by the Jammu and Kashmir State financial 
Corporation, are chargeable under the said Act- 

[No. 13/67—F. No. 1/72/67-Cus. Vll/Stamps.] 
M. S. SUBRAMANYAM, Under Secy- 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Income-Tax Establishments 
New Delhi, the 6th December 1967 

S.O. 4509.—In pursuance of clause (b) of sub-rule (ii) of rule 2 of the Appellate 
Tribunal Rules, 19461, the Central Government was pleased to appoint Shri R. 
Srinivusan, Income-tax Officer, Class II Madras as Junior Authorised Represen¬ 
tative, Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Madras, to appear, plead and act for any 
Income tax authority who is a party to any proceedings before the Income-tax 
Appellate Tribunal, Madras from 18th May, 19G6 to 15th August, 1967. 


[No. 353. j 

S.O. 4510.—In pursuance of clause (b) of sub-rule fii) of rule 2 of the Appellate 
Tribunal Rules 1946, the Central Government has been pleased to appoint Shri 
F- R. Sarma, Income-tax Officer, Class II, Madras as Junior Authorised Repre¬ 
sentative, Income Tax Appellate Tribunal. Madras with effect from the forenoon 
of 16th August, 1967 to appear, plead and act for any Income Tax authority who 
Is a party to any proceeding before the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Madras- 

[No. 354.] 

M. G- THOMAS, Under Secy 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1907 

S.O. 4511.—-In pursuance of clause (c) of sub-rule (IB) of rule 126HH of the 
Defence of India Rules, 1902, the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendments in the notification of the Government of India, Ministry of 






4748 the gazette of india: December 23, 1967/pausa 2, 1889 [Part ii— 


Finance, Department of Revenue and Insurance, S.O. No. 3694, dated the 1st 
December, 1966, namely :— 

In the said notification, in the Table below the Note— 

(1) in the entries relating to serial number 7, against the entries corres¬ 
ponding to item (ii) of column (2), for the existing entry in column (3) 
the following entry shall be substituted, namely :— 

“An Officer not below the rank of Assistant. Gram Sevak or Talathi of 
Zila Parishads or of the Revenue Department”. 

(2) after serial number 21 and the entries relating thereto, the following 
shall be added, namely :— 

(1) (2) (31 

“22. Haryana Tahsildars or Nalb Tahslldars. 

23 Pondicherry Revenue Officers or Village Munsifs.” 

[No. F 3/25/67-ClC—II.] 1 
J AS JIT SINGH. Jt- Secy. 


THE MADRAS CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE, MADRAS 

Central Excise 

Madras, the 5th December 1907 

S.O. 4512.—In pursuance of Rule 233 of the Central Excise Rules 1944, the 
undersigned directs that in the register prescribed in this Collectorate Notification 
C. No- V/1P/3O/38/05-C.E -Pol., dated 5th June, 1965 [Published in S.O- No. 2508, 
Part II, Section H(ii), dated 14th August, 1965 of the Gazette of India], an additional 
column viz., column No. 11, as in Appendix I, shall be inserted. 

And in addition to the above, two registers as in Appendices II and III shall also 
be maintained by licensed processors of cotton fabrics. 




APPENDIX I 


After the existing column io 3 insert the following as column n and re-number columns 11^12 and : '• as I2 ; 13 and 14 respectively:— 


Date of 
baling 

Sound 11 (b) 

Fents 11(c) 

Rags 11(d) 


Cb indies 11(e) 


Serial No. of Qty. 

bales 

S. N. of Qty. 

bales 

S. No. of 
bales 

Qty. 

S. No. of Qty, 
bales 


11 (a) (i) (ii) <i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) 





APPENDIX II 

Baling Register 


Date Bale 

Name of 

Quantity Linear 

Total 

Linear Width 

Sq, metre Net 

Gross 

Processing 

No. 

the parent 
Mill 

metre 
per piece 

No. of 
pieces 

metre 

weight 

weight 

card under 
which the 
fabrics were 
processed (i.i 
Col. 2 of the 
processing 
register) 


12 3 4567 8 9 10 ir 12 13 



475 b THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PA USA 2, 1.869 [h«T H- 









APPENDIX III 


Register shoeing the Balewise receipt of Cotton Febrics a. id issued thereof for processing 


SL Formation 

from which 
received 

A.R.yMo. St 
date [document 
Ho* & date 
unde# which 
teceived. 

S. No. matted Variety-fine/ Quantity 

Date on 
which each 
bale is issued 
from grey 
store*-room to 
the processing 
section. 

Date on 
which issued 
for processing 
(stitching) 

Processing 
(stitching) card No. 
under which taken 
for processing 
(i.e. S. No. shown 
in col-g of the pro¬ 
cessing register). 

(each. No. to 
be written on a 
separate lose one 
below the other) 

& the No. allot- Linear 
ed to the cotton metre 
fabrics by tbe 
parent mill. 

Sq. 

metre 

I 2 

3 

4 

5 6(a) 

«(b) 

7 

8 

9 



[C. No. V(19)30/ 14/65-CX-I.] 
S. VENKATABAMAN, Collector. 


4731 







■47J 2 


2, 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

(Office of the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

Panjim, Goa the 30th November 1967 

S.O, 4513. —M/s. Caxinata P. Camotin & Irmao, Panjim were granted an import 
licence No. P/EI/0004348-C/XX/23/C/G/23-24, dated 3rd June, 1966. They have 
applied for a duplicate Customs Purposes Copy of the licence on the ground that 
the Original Copy of the Customs Purposes Copy of the licence has been lost. 
It is further stated that the original licence was not registered with any Customs 
Authority and has been partly utilised to the extent of Rs. 202. In support of 
this contention, the applicant has filed an affidavit. 

I, R. D. Pawar, Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, Panjim-Goa in 
the Ministry of Commerce, in exercise of the powers conferred by Clause 9 of 
Import (Control) Order, 1955, hereby cancel the Original Customs Purposes Copy 
of Import licence No- P/EI/0004348 C/XX/23/C/G/23-24, dated 3rd June, 1986. 

[No. EI/293-95-97-1V/10 /AM67,] 
R. D- PAWAR, 

Dy- Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Office of the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

(Central Licensing Area) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 1st December 1967 

8.0. 4514.— The licences Nos. (1) P/SS/1506265/C, dated 22nd July, 1966 for 
Rs. 3,150 for the import of Permissible Dyes Intermediate and (2) P/SS/1573601/C, 
dated 26th August, 1966 for Rs. 16,000 for the Import of Permissible Dyes Inter¬ 
mediate were issued to M/s. Mewar Thread Works, Moyied Pura, Bohrawadi, 
Udaipur (Rajasthan). 

2, Thereafter, a show cause notice No. M-7/67/Enf/CLA/3328, dated 29th Septem¬ 
ber, 1967 was Issued asking them to show cause within 10 days as to why the 
said licences in their favour should not be cancelled on the ground that the Central 
Government is satisfied that the licences will not serve the purpose for which these 
were granted in terms of Clause 9(cc). 

3. In response to the aforesaid show cause notice no reply has been received 
from M/s- Mewar Thread Works, Moyied Pura, Bohrawadi, Udaipur (Rajasthan). 

4. The undersigned has carefully examined the case and has come to the 
conclusion that the party have no defence to urge and have avoided a reply. 

5. Having regard to what has been stated in the proceeding paragraph, the 
undersigned is satisfied that the licences in question should be cancelled or other¬ 
wise rendered Ineffective. Therefore, the undersigned, In exercise of the powers 
vested in him under Clause 9(cc) of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 hereby 
cancel the aforesaid licences Issued in favour of M/s. Mewar Thread Works, Moyied 
Pura, Bohrawadi, Udaipur (Rajasthan). 

M/s. Mewar Thread Works, [No- M-7/67/ENF/Cr,A/:jy25,j 

Moyied Pura, Bohra Wadi, j. S- BEDI, 

Udaipur (Rajasthan). Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 1th December 1967 

S.O 4515. —In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 9 of the Imports 
(Control) Order, 1955, dated 7th December, 1955 as amended, the undersigned 
hereby cancels both the customs purposes copy and Exchange purposes copy of 





Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DKCEMBEU 28, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


4753 


Import Licence No. G/RP/2441088/C/XX/24/CH/24, dated 8th March, 1967 for 
the importation of ‘National Wireless Microphone System Model CM-232-A and 
Feeder Cable 3 C-2V etc. falling under I.T.C. Schedule No. 289/IV, valued at Rs. 085 
Issued in favour of M/s- Photophone Equipments Limited, Bombay. 

The reason for cancellation of the licence is that the foreign suppliers had 
regretted their inability to supply the goods. 

[No. 4-F/Rly/60-67/GLS/895.] 
S. A. SESHAN, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports- 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING 
(Department of Health) 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1967 

S.O. 4516.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 8 
of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 (19 of 1925), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Department of Education, Health and Lands No- 43-6/37-R, dated 
the 3rd June, 1937, namely :— 

In the said notification the words a non-pensionable permanent shall be omitted. 

[No. F- 4-55/65-MPT,] 
L. K. MURTHY, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND SHIPPING 
(Transport Wing) 

Nan Delhi, the 14 th December 1967 

S.O. 4517.—In pursuance of rule 25 of the Inter-State Transport Commission 
Rules, 1960, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S. Balakrishnan, Joint 
Secretary and Legal Adviser, Department of Legal Affairs, Ministry of Law as 
member of the Inter-Slate Transport Appellate Tribunal vice Shri V. S. Despande 
and makes the following amendment fn the notification of the Government of India 
In the Ministry of Transport and Aviation (Department of Transport, Shipping and 
Tourism—Transport Wing) No. 25-T(32)/63, dated the 20th July, 1906, namely:— 

In the said notification, for item 3, the following item shall be substituted, 
namely 

“3. Shri S. Balakrishnan, Joint Secretary and Legal Adviser, Department <jf 
Legal Affairs, Ministry of Law.”—Member. 

[No. 25-T(32) /63.1 
B. M. MAZUMDAR, Under Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1967 

S.O. 4518.—In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules to amend the 
Overseas Communications Service Employees’ Contributory Provident Fund Rules, 
1984, namely :— 

1 - These rules may be called the Overseas Communications Service Employees' 
■Contributory Provident Fund (Amendment) Rules, 1907. 

2. In the Overseas Communications Service Ernploj'ees’ Colntributory Provident 
Fund Rules, 1964, in sub-rule (3) of rule 16, the following Notes shall be Inserted, 
namely :— 

“Note 1 , —A subscriber shall be permitted to make a withdrawal onec in every 
six months under clause (a) of sub-rule (1) of rule 16. Every such withdrawal 





4754 THE QAi'ETTE OF INDIA; DECEMBER 25, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Past II- 


shall be treated as withdrawal for a separate purpose fqr the purpose of sub-rule 
(3) of rule J 0 . 

Note 2 .—In eases where a subscriber has tq pay in instalments for a site or 
a house purchased, or a house constructed through a House Building Co-operative 
Society or similar agency, he shall bo permitted to make a withdrawal as and 
when he is called upon to make a payment in any instalment- Every such pay¬ 
ment shall he treated as a payment for a separate purpose for the purposes of 
sub-rule (3) of rule 10- 

[No- 3-OC(28)/67.J 
S- S. PRUTHI, Under Secy 


CENTRAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the 16th December 1967 

S.O. 4519*—In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section 6 of Section 
3 of the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948, the Central Electricity Authority hereby 
appoints Shri M, Kothandaraman, Extra Assistant Director, Central Water & 
Power Commission (Power Wing) as Assistant Director in the Southern Regional 
Electricity Hoard, with effect from the forenoon of the 1 st December, 1907, until 
further order* 

[No. 21/9/60-Adm-l-] 
M- M- DHAWAN, Under $ecy. 

for Chairman, C.E.A. 


ministry of petroleum and chemicals 


New Delhi, the 13th December 1907 


8.0. 4520—Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 3238, dated the 4th September, 1967 under 
l ub-sectlon ( 1 ) of Section. 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acqulsit’on of Right of 
User in Land) Act, 1962 (50 of 1902), the Central Government declared Its intention 
to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule appended to 
that notification for the purpose of laying pipelines; 


Add whereas, the competent authority has, under sub-section (i) of section 0 
of the satd Act, submitted report tg the Government; 


And, wborepfl, the Central Government, has, Offer considerirji the said report, 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule appended 
to this notification; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of section 
of the sflid Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right of user 
In the said lands specified in the Schedule appended to this notification is hereby 
acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of that section, the Central Government directs that the right of 
user in the said hands, shall instead of vesting in the Central Government, vest 
on he date of the publication of this declaration in the Oil and Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbrances. 

Schedule 


State : Gujarat District : Broach Taluka ; Ankleshwar 


Village 

Survey No. 

Hector 

Are 

P. Are- 

Ankleshwar . 

233/2 

O 

II 

32 


(Sd.) K, M, Vyas 

jar at 


cer, 
„ JSWC 
Baroda. 


[No. 31/41/64-V.ol U/Prod/I.O C j 
P. P. GUPTA, Under Secy- 





Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23. 1967/PAUSA 2, 1899 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 15 th December 1907 

S.O. 4521.—In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinema¬ 
tograph Act, 1052 find sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-ryle 2 of ru'Id 9 of 
the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules. 1958, the Contra! Government hereby 
appoints Smf- Snenalata Reddy after consultation with Central Board of Film 
Censors as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with 
immediate effect- 

[No. 11/3/65-FC.J 
H- C. KHANNA, Dy. Secy. 


Corrigendum 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1967 

S.O- 4522.—In the Schedule to this Ministry's S.O. No. 3991 dated. 23rd 
October, 1907 appealing in the Gazette of India, Part II, Sectioff 3, Sub-Section 
(ii) dated the lltri November, 1967, under Cbl- i against S. No- 2 for the existing 
entries “Dhyan Se Sochlye" please read “Dftyan Sfe 80fchlye-7”. Also under Col. 
3 against S. No. 2 for the existing entry "717 M" please read “17 M”. 

[No- F. 24/1/67 FP App. 1222.1 

BANU RAM AGGARWAL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT & REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour & Employment) 

New Delhi, the 2nd December 1967 

S.O. 4523.—In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Minimum 
Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948) read with section 9 of the said Act and Rule 3 of 
the Minimtim Wages (Central Advisory Board) Ruths 1949 and In supersession of 
the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour and 
Employment S.O. No. 2590 LWI (I) 6(15) /58 dated the ITtH November, 1959, the 
Central Government hereby appoints * Central Advisory Board consisting of the 
following members, namely:— 

Independent Persons 

Chairman 

1. Dr. S- T- Merani, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation, (department of Labour and Employment) New Delhi 

Members 

2- Shri S. J- Das, Secretary, Government of Assam, Shillong. 

3. Shri S, B. Lai, Labour Commissioner Government of Madhya Pradesh. 

Indore. 

4. Shri it B. Shukla, Labour Commissioner Government of Gujarat, 

Ahmedabad. 

5. Shri S- Nagarajan, Deputy Secretary, Government of Kerala, Trivandrum- 

6 . Shri S. K. Misra, Labour Commissioner, Government of Haryana, Chandi¬ 

garh. 

7. Dr, T, V. S. Chalapathi Rao, M.L.A., Vijavada (Andhra Pradesh); 

8 . Shri S. K. Sen, Presiding Officer, Central Government Industrial Trlbu- 

nal-Cum-Labour Court, 20, British Indiaii Street, 3rd Floor, Calcutta. 

9. Shri Vishwa Nath Fandey, MP 189 North Avenue, New Delhi 

10. Shri C. N. Vakil, 14 Kalpana, 98. Marine Drive, Bombay- 

11. SfarJ Ram Chandra Binha. decretory to the Government of Bihar, and 

jjz-dflfcio Chairman, Minimum Wages State Advisory Shard, Patna. 






4756 THE GAZETTE of INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


Representatives of Employees 

12. Shri N- M. Barot C/o Textile Labour Association, Gandhi Majoor Sevalaya, 

Bhadra, Ahmedabad- 

13. Shri Durgeshwar Snikia, C/o Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangb, Dibrugarh. 

14- Shri Vigendra Kabra, General Secretary (INTUC) Maharashtra Branch, 

27, Military Square I.ane, Fort, Bombay. 

15- Shri Prabhakar Tripathi, Secretary (INTUC) U P. Branch, 11/366, Souter- 

ganj, Kanpur. 

16. Shri Satpal Bhushan, President (INTUC) Punjab Branch, S-C-F. 4, Sector 
20-D, Chandigarh. 

17 Shri N- Keshava, Ag. President (INTUC) Mysore, T.B. Raju Building, 
6th Main Road, Gandhinagar, Bangalore. 

18. Shri N- N. Manna, CPWD Workers Union, 6 Tooti, Paharganj, New Delhi. 

19. Shri R. Umanath, M.P., 4 Asboka Road, New Delhi. 

20. Shri Vilas Gandhi, Metal and Engineering Mazdoor Sabha, 491 Rawiwar 

Peth, Motl Chauk, Poona-2. 

21. Shri S- R. Kulkarni, President All India Port and Dock Workers Federa¬ 

tion, D Mello Bhavan, Carnac Bunder, 167, P D. 1 Mello Road, Bombay- 

22. Shri Jatin Chakravarty, 249, Bepin Behari Ganguly Street, Calcutta- 

23. Shri Lahtan Chowdhury, Convener of the Bihar Agricultural Labour 

Committee, Supul, District Sahersa (Bihar). 

Representatives of the Employers 

24. Shri H. C- Kotharl, Oriental Building, Armenian Street, Madras. 

26, Shri K. N. Sahaya ‘Sahaya Sadan’, Bailey Road, Patna. 

20. Shri M- K. Mohta, B-26, Greater Kailash, 1, New Delhi- 

27. Shri Deokisan B- Sarda, C/o M/s Bastiram Naridas Maheshri Sinnar 

(Nasik) (Maharashtra). 

28- Shri J. G. Gill, General Manager in India, The Commonwealth Trust, Post 

Box No. 5, Calicut. 

29- Shri P. J, Parr, Senior Adviser, Indian Tea Association, Royal Exchange, 

Netaji Subhash Road, Calcutta-1, 

30- Shri P. K. Sahgal, General Manager, The British India Corporation Ltd-, 

Cooper Allen Branch, Civil Lines, Kanpur. 

31- Shri D- P. R, Cassad, Managing Director, C-P. Syndicate Private Ltd., 

Byramji Town, Nagpur. 

32. Shri Guru Pershad, Vice President and Managing Director of M/s Hyder¬ 
abad Allwyn Metal Works C/o All India Manufacturers Organisation, 
Sir Phroze Shah Mehta Road, Bombay-1. 

33- Shri G- S. Gupta, Lakshmi Engineering Works, Hauz Quazi, Delhi-6. 

34. Shri Tirth Prakash, Deputy Director, Civil Engineering, Railway Board, 

New Delhi. 

35. A representative of Ministry of Defence. 


[No. LWJ(I)6(3) /67.] 
O- P- TALWAR, Under Secy- 


(Department of Labour & Employment) 

New Delhi , the 5th December 1967 

S.O. 4521.-- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
27 of the Payment of Bonus Act, 1966 (21 of 1965) the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendments in the notification of the Government of India 





Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S-O. 1491 dated the 15th April, 1967; namely:— 

In the table to the said notification— 

(i) in the entries against item II, in column (2) after the words “The State 

of Maharashtra” the words “and the Union Territories of Goa, Daman 
and Diu” shall be inserted; 

(ii) after item X and the entries relating thereto, the following item and 

entries shall be inserted, namely:— 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


"XI Deputy Chief Labour Com¬ 
missioner (Central), Dhanbad. 


The States of Bihar, West Bengal, 
Orissa, Assam, Nagaland and the 
Union Territories of Manipur and 
Tripura”. 


[No. WB-20(8)/67.] 
HANS RAJ CHHABRA, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 5th December 1967 

S.O. 4525.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby pubiishe " • ” ' -yard of the 

Additional Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the ■ .. .. • • between the 

employers in relation to the Pootkec Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanee Collieries 
Limited, Post Office Kusunda, District Dhanbad and their Managing Agents Messrs 
K. C- Thaper and Brothers, Thapar House, 25, Brabourne Road, Calcutta-1 of the 
one part, and their workmen of the other part, which was received by the Central 
Government on the 1st December, 1967- 

BEFOR'E THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO- 2) 

AT DHANBAD 

In the matter of a reference under Section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act. 1947- 


Reference No. 39 of 1967 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Pootkee Colliery of Messrs- Bhowra Kankanee 
Collieries Ltd., P.O. Kusunda, District Dhanbad. 

AND 

Their Workmen 

Present: 

Sri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

For the employers: Sri K. C. Nandkeolyar, Deputy Chief Personnel Officer. 

For the workmen: Sri Gopal Chandra Munshi. General Secretary. Khan Maz- 
door Congress- 

State: Bihar- Industry: Coal- 

the 25th November, 1967 

Dhanbad, dated --- 

4th Agrahayana, 1889 

AWARD 

The Central - Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Pootkee Colliery of Messrs Bhowra 
Kankanee Collieries Limited, Post Office Kusunda, District Dhanbad and their 




47^8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 28, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


Managing Agents, M/s- K. C. Thaper and Brothers, Thaper House, 25, Brahourne 
Road, Calcutta-1 on the one part and their workmen on the other part, by Its order 
No- 2/18/65-LR-II dated the 14th May, 1986 referred to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under Section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial' Disputes Act, 
1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specified in the schedule 
annexed thereto. The schedule Is extracted below: 

“Schedule 

Whether the action of the management of Pootkee Colliery of Messrs Bhowra 
Kankanee Collieries Limited ahd their Managing Agents, Messrs- K. C- 
Thaper and Brothers, In dismissing Sri Abdul Gant, Shale Picker 
from service with effect from the 18th November, 1964 was justified? 
If not, to what relief, is the workman entitled?’’ 

2- The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the refer¬ 
ence as No- 78 of 1905 on its file- The workmen filed their statement of demands. 
While it was pending before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad 
the proceeding was transferred to this Tribunal by the Central Government by its 
Order No 8725/67-LRII dated 8th May, 1967 under Section 33(B) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947- Consequently, the reference Is renumbered on the file of this 
Tribunal as reference No- 39 of 1967- The employers also filed their statement of 
demands- 

3- The case of the workmen is that Abdul Ganl, a shale picker in the employ 
of the Pootked Colliery of the employers was an office bearer and an active worker 
of the Khan Mazdoor Congress Branch, that on 23rd August 1964 there was a big 
meeting of the workers held at the colliery ground under the banner of the Khan- 
Mazdoor Congress, that the management did pot like that there should be a branch 
of the Khan Mazdoor Congress at the colliery, that In pursuance of their policy of 
harassing and victimising the ring leaders of the Khan Mazdoor Congress Branch 
the management chargesheeted Abdul Gani (hereinafter referred to as the affected 
4rSf on the nlxf morning with false ade^tions and that ^ter conductive 
r>«rfimct.uiirv enquiry dismissed him from service wi e ec , 


*ns chflraesheeted for misconduct as defined irt the certified panning 
Orders that On his denial he was given notice of the enquiry, that the enquiry was 

■.jSSnCtSK SK .a. mo.lv.w »l«h vl«lml»- 

Horn 

4 The workmen were represented by Sri Gopal Chandra Munshi, General Secre¬ 
tary Khan Mazdoor Congress, and the employers by Sri K- C- Nandkeolyar, Deputy 
Chief Personnel Officer On behalf of the workmen the affected workman Is ex¬ 
amined as WW1 and Exts- Ml to M8 are marked- Qn behalf Qf the employers also 
^witness, MWl is examined and Efts. M7 to M19 are marked, ?y consent of the 
emnloyers Ext. Wl is marked for the workmen. It Is alleged on behalf of the 
workmen and deposed to by WW1 that the dismissal of the affected workman was 
a result of the victimising policy of the employers, in as much ^Jhe affected work¬ 
man was an office bearer and an active worker of the Khan Mazdoor Congress 
Branch of the Colliery- This allegation is flatly denied by the employers and they 
. i n . j _ ji +>iA vairfnlt of o nrhhir H rthlRst.) C finaillrv. T hflVC to 


respect of the alleged victimisation the case of the workmen hinges riolely dn the 
oraltesttmony of the affected workman, WW1 and repetition of The allegation In 
their letters addressed to the management and the Conciliation Officer- ^»^ Jr jg 
the domestic enquiry there Is considerable evidence In “Edition to 

nml testimony of the enquiry officer, Mwl And ottiissions on the part of the 
M WWl Ills an admitted fact that on 23rd August 1984 there 

^TameettoTof'the workmen at the colliery- Ext- M7 is the chargesheet served 
on \he Effected workman The allegations contained In It were that on Sunday toe 
Anmint 1964 at 10-30 am. when the work of loading df wagons was In pre- 
th<faffected workman created a disturbance, threatened toe loading labourers 
to^top work^llegally. the loading clerk Sri A- K- Raha asked the affectea workman 
to forebear from such illegal activity but the affected workman disobeyed him-, 
threatened him and refuped %o lqave the pit av askid hy win- The charses 

were wilful insubordln atlon and dlSbbedlehce Of le^lul add rea WWJ 
dndira oifhe superior, riotous (fid disorderly behs'dour, cauring damage to iw 
to prSr^^d ktS&t of the above miscohddCta- AdffiWtodly, the affected 





Sf.c, S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 28, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


47 S% 


workman submitted his reply to the chargesheet of 26th August, 1964 and it is 
Ext. Ml. He denied the charges and pleaded victimisation. Sri H- R. S- Sodhi, 
tiie Administrative Officer qf Poatkf* Colliery, MW1 made the enquiry. Five wit¬ 
nesses were examined for prosecution and their statements are Exts, M9, M10, Mil, 
M12 & M13. Each qf the witnesses is cross examined by the adapted workman. 
The affected workman has admitted his signatures on the statements, Exts. M9, 
M10, Mil & M12, but denied his signatures on other statements and bn his own 
statement, Ext. M14- While admitting his signature on the statement Qf one of his 
defence witnesses, Ext. M15 he has denied his signature on the statement of other 
defence witness, Ext, M16, But MW1 has proved all the statements, Exts, M9 to , 
M13, the statement of the affected workmen, Ext Mil and the two statements ot 
the defence witnesses, Exts- M15 and M16 as recorded by him in presence of the 
affected workman. He has also proved that the affected workman cross examined 
all the prosecution witnesses, that he gave his own statement, Ext. M14 and that 
he got the statements Exts- M15 and M16 of his defence witnesses recorded- The 
report of the enquiry officer is Ejd- M17 and it is also proved by MW1- The report 
states that all the charges brought against the affected workman were proved. On 
the chargesheet, Ext. M7 I find the approval of the agent in dismissing the affected 
workman as recommended- The Certified Standing Orders of the opposite party 
are Ext. Ml 9- Wllfql insubordination or disobedience, whether alone or in com¬ 
bination with another or others, ot any lawful Of reasonable order of his superior 
constitutes misconduct under S-O. 27 of the Certified Standing Orders. Neither it 
is alleged nor did I find any violation of any principle of natural justice in the 
domestic enquiry conducted against the affected workman- I could pot enter Into 
appreciation of evidence recorded in the enquiry as an appellate authority- I do 
not find anything wrong or illegal in the domestic enquiry held against the affected 
workman- Under these circumstances I cannot agree that the dismissal qf the 
affected workman was a result of the gross victimisation policy of the employers 
or that It was unjust. 

5. I, therefore, hold that the action of the management of Pootkee Colliery of 
Messrs BhowTa Kankanee Collieries Co. Ltd-, and their Managing Agents, Messers 
K. C- Thaper and Brothers, in dismissing the affected workman, Abdul Gani, Shale 
Picker from service with effect from lfltfi November 1064 was justified and, con¬ 
sequently, he is not entitled to any relief. The award is made accordingly and 
submitted under Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

9d/- N. Venkata Rao, 

Presiding Officer, . 

Central Government Additional 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad- 

Appendix I 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 2) 

AT DHANBAD 

Reference No, 39 of 1967 

Employer* in relation to Pootkee Colliery of Messrs. Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Ltd. . 
P.O. Kuaunda, District Dhanbad 

Vs. 

Their Workmen 


List of Documents admitted in evidence for the Employers 


DiitinguUh- 
iW “Wfkor 
flujnbcr 

Description of document and date] 

Date of 
admisiion 

Whether admitted 
after or without ob¬ 
jection 

Page 

Number 

1 

2 

J 

4 

5 

Ex. Mi 

Reply of the chwsptheet dated 26-8-64 
of Sri Abdul Guam, 

5 - 9-47 

On proved. WWi 

22 

Ex. M2 

Signature of Sri Ghani on the state¬ 
ment of Sri A. K, Raha dated 
31-8-64. 

Do. 

Do. 

2 

Ex. M3 

Statement of Sri N. N. Ojha 

Do. 

, Do. 

4 

Gx Mi 

Statement of Sri Khiroo 

Do. 

Do. 

7 

El MS 

Statement of Sri Kiaoon 

Do. 

Do. 

ro 



4760 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMRER 23 , 1967 /PAtlSA 2 , 1889 [Part II- 


I 


3 4 5 


Ex. M6 

Signature of Sri Gani on the state¬ 
ment of Sri Dwaraka Prasad on 
page 2. 

5-9-67 

On Proved WWI 

IS 

Ex. M7 

Chargesheet No. 170/64 dt. 24-8-64. 

Do. 

On Proved MWT 

2 

Ex. M8 

Office copy of the notice of enquiry 
dated 28-8-64, 

Do, 

Do. 

2 

Ex. M9 

Identify the signature of Sri Abdul 
Gani on the statement of Sri A.K. 
Raha, 

Do. 

Do. 

I 

Ex. Mxo 

Do. N. N. Ojha 

Do. 

Do. 

4 

7 

Ex, Mil 

Do. Khiroo 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. M12 

Do, Kisoon 

Do. 

Do. 

9 

Ex. AIT3 

Do. Kalicharan 

Do. 

Do. 

TI 

Ex. Mt4 

Do. Dwarka Prasad 

Do, 

Do. 

13 

Ex. M15 

Do. Abdul Gani 

Do. 

Do. 

17 

Ex. M16 

Do, Hari Saha 

Do. 

Do. 

19 

Ex. M17 

Lciter dated 7-9-64 from H. R. S. 
Sodhi to manager regarding enquiry 
report. 

Do. 

Do. 

25 

Ex. M18 

Letter dated 7-1-65 from Sri G. 
Munshi to Conciliation Officer, 
Dhanbad. 

Do. 

Do. 

27 

Ex. M19. 

Copy of the standing orders. . 

Do. 

Do. 

28 


List of Documents Admitted in Evidence for the Workmen 


Distinguish- Description of document and dote Date of Whether admitted 

itig mark or admission after or without 

number objection 


Ex. Wl Dismissal letterNo.L.W.O. RCI./4320/LWO/23/ 5-9-67 Admitted, 

E dt. 18-11-1964. 


Sd/-N. Venkata Rao, 
Presiding Officer,, 
Central Government. 
Additional Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbod. 


Appendix ii 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No, 2) 

AT DHANBAD. 

Reference No. 39 of 1967. 

Employers in relation to Pootkee Coltiery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanec Collieries Ltd,, P.O 
Kueurtda, District Dhanbad. 

Vs. 

Their workmen. 

List of Witness examined for the Employer 


No. of 

Name of witness 

Date of examination 

MW 1 

Sri II, R. S. Sodhi 

5-9-1967. 






47<>r 



List o* Witness exanhrcd for the 

Workmen 

No. of 
witness 

Name of witness 

Date of examination 

v; wi 

Sri Abdul Gani , 

j-9-1967. 


Sd/-.N. Venkata Rao, 
Presiding Officer, 
Central Government 
Additional Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad. 

LNo- 2 / 18 / 65 -LRII-l 


Nev) Delhi, the 6 th December 1067 

S.O. 4526 .—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Sarpi Kajora Colliery, Post Office Ukhra, District Burdwan, and 
their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the 2 nd December, 
1967. 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA. 
Reference No. 45 of 19 G 7 


Parties : 

Employers In relation to the Sarpi Kajora Colliery, 

AND 


Their workmen. 


Present: 

Shri S. K- Sen —Presiding Officer 


Appearances : 

On behalf of Employers —Shri K- P. Mukherjee, Bar-at-Law- 
On behalf of Workmen —Shri Kishore Chatterjee- 
State: West Bengal. Industry: Coal Mines- 

AWARD 


By Order No- 6 / 91 / 6 G-LRII dated 24 th May, 1967 , the Central Government 
referred for adjudication an Industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Sarpi Kajora Colliery, Post Office, Ukhra, District Burdwan and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the following schedule: 

“Whether the dismissal of Sarvashri Neam Harijan and Ram Padarak Ram, 
M. C- Loaders by the management of Sarpi Kajora Colliery, Post 
Office, Ukhra with effect from the 23 rd June, 1966 was justified! it 
not, to what relief are the workmen entitled?" 

2 According to the written statement of the union, the Colliery Mazdoor 
Union, Neam Harilan and Ram Padarak Ram, Loadersbecame members of-the 
branch of the Colliery Mazdoor Union which was started by Keshab Banerjee 
at Sarpi Kajora Colliery in the beginning of 1966; and they did some work for 
the union e.g. by collecting subscriptions- The management did 

not reropnise the Colliery Mazdoor Union and wanted to crush the new union. 
The two workmen, Neam Harijan and Ram Padarak Ram, were falsely charge 
sheeted on 29 th May, 1966 on the allegation that they had 28tb May 

from going down the mine at the commencement of the third shift on 28 th 

iQflfl banning at 12 midnight and had thus affected the work and output in in® 
workmen submitted replies- on 4 th June, 1966 denying the 

allegations: they were notified that the enquiry would take place on 17 th June, 











number of men .armed with lathis, etc- outside the colliery office and they abused 
him and Ram Padarak Ram, and so out of fear tie and Ram Padarak Rafn ran 
way. If this part of the case of the workmen could be accepted, it would follow 
that the enquiry was not a proper one as the workmen had been deliberately 
stopped from attending the enquiry. But it appears that this allegation was made 
for the first time In he letter which Keshab Banerjee addressed to the A.LC., 

Central, Raniganj on 18th July, 1966 1-e- a month after the date of the enquiry- 

The union's case is that after the workmen had run away for fear of the armed 
men on 17th June, 1966 they went to the office of tne Labour Enforcement 

Officer, Ukhra and reported to him, and that then they went to their union 
office at Ukhra and sent a letter by registered post stating the circumstances 
which had prevented them from attending the enquiry and requesting that another 
date might be fixed. But the Labour Enforcement Officer of Ukhra has not been 
called as a witness to prove this and there is nothing to show that a registered 
letter was sent on 17th June, 1966 describing the circumstances in which the 
workmen could not attend the enquiry and asking for another* date. Neam 

Harijan produced a postal receipt dated 22nd June, 1966 Ext. 1 , stating that this 
related to the registered letter which they had sent,. But the copy of the Hindi 
letter which they sent has been marked 2 for identification and it does not relate 
to the circumstances In which the workmen uould not attend the enquiry on 
17th June, 1966 and does not contain any prayer for fixing another date for the 
enquiry- It relates to Neam Harijan and some other mazdoors having been 
forcibly driven away from the dtiowra on 21st June, 1966, Neam Harijan Stated 
in the letter that on that account tie was not attending his shift on 22nd June, 1966 - 
Therefore Neam Harljan’s statement before the tribunal that he went to join his 
shift on 22nd June, 1966, but was prevented by the Agent and the Labdur Welfare 
Officer, cannot be accepted as true- The letter marked 2 together with the postal 
receipt, Ext. 1, relates to another incident which was also described by Neam 
Harijan In his evidence, namely that one Mukhdeo Harijan of Seetalpur Colliery 
■came to see him at his dhoWrah at Sarpi Kajora Colliery on 21st June, 1966, and 
that seeing tilm, Kanti Lai Babu, Deonandan Singh, Chulhan and others said 
that a man from another colliery and another union had come to make trouble 
and so they assaulted him and thereupon Neam Harijan also ran away out of 
fear. Neam Harijan admitted that on 17th. 18th, iftth and 20th June he and 
Ram Padarak Ram regularly joined their shift at the colliery. 21st June, 1966 
was a rest day at the colliery and Ram Padarak Ram worked on 22nd June also- 
If the two workmen were thus allowed to attend their shift both before and 
after the scheduled time of the enquiry it Is difficult to believe that they were 
forcibly prevented from attending the enquiry If they had been thus prevented, 
-It Would be natural fbr them to complain verbally to the Manager or the Welfare 
Officer, but thebe is ho evidence that they did so. On the other hand, the Labour 
Welfare Officer said that he met Neam Harijan on 18th June, 1966 and asked 
him why he had not attended the inquiry; and Neam made no complaint of 
having been prevented- I cannot therefore accept Neam’s evidence that a letter 
explaining the circumstances in which the Workmen did not attend the inquiry 
was sent from Ukhra. Thus, I must find that the two workmen were not pre¬ 
vented from attending the enquiry but that they voluntarily kept away. 

6 - Accordingly, the enquiry must be held to be in order- The Welfare Officer 
bhe proved the proceedings of the e.t-phrte inquiry, and the report which he sub¬ 
mitted- the Evidence recorded at the enquiry is sufficient for the finding made 
by tne ehqutring officer namely that the twb workmen dissuaded other workmen 
for some time froili going down the mine and sb interfered with the regular 
working of tHe mine and affected the output. That being so, the order of dismissal 
cannot be lnterferred with. 

7. My award therefore is that the dismissal of Shri Neam Harijan and Shri Ram 
Padarak Rath. M-C- loaders by the management of Sarpi Kajora Colliery with 
effeht irclm 23rd June, 1966 Was justified and the Workmen are not entitled to 
any relief. 

(Sd-) S. K- S*R, 
Presiding Officer. 

[No. 6/91/66-LRII-] 


New Delhi, the 8th December 1867 

8.0- 4527-—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 1947 
n ‘4 bf 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the folloWihg award Of 
the Industrial Tribunal (No. 2), Dhanbsd, in the industrial dispute between the 
employers itt relation to the Balihwi- Qollery of Messrs Balihari CoHery Comp¬ 
any (private) Limited, Post Office, Kusunda, District Dhanhad and their Managing 





Agents, Khatau & Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Dhansar, District 
Dhanbad of the one part and their workmen, which was received by the Central 
Government on the 5th December, 1967. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
(No. 2) AT DHANBAD. 

In the matter of a reference under Section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 


Reference No. 49 of 1967 


Parties: 

Employers in relation to the Balihari Colliery of Messrs. Balihari Colliery 
Company (P) Limited, Post Office Kusunda, District Dhanbad and 
their Managing Agents, Khatau and Company (P) Limited, Post Office 
Dhansar, District Dhanbad- 


AND 


Their workmen. 


Present : 

Sri Nandagiri Venkata Rao— Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

For the Employers —Sri S- R. P- Singh, Labour Officer. 

For the Workmen. —Sri Gurbachan Singh, Vice-President and Sri S- V. 
Acharior, General Secretary of Hindusthan Khan Mazdoor Sangh. 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal- 

Dhanbad, dated the 29th November, 1907. 

AWARD 

The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Balihari Colliery of ' their 

Colliery Company (F) Limited Post Office Kusunda, District Dhanbad and their 
Managing Agents, Khatau & Company (P) Limited Post Office Dhansar 
District Dhanbad Of the one part and their workmen of the other part by its 
order No. 2/99/64-LRII dated the 31st May, 1965 referred to the /-eritral Govern- 
ment Industrial, Tribunal, Dhanbad under Section l<Xl)(d) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specified 
in the schedule annexed thereto. The schedule is extracted below. 

Schedule 

“wv„>tw the management of the Balihari Colliery of Messrs Balihari 
w hether to (P) Limited and their Managing Agents, Khatau 

& Company (P) Limited were justified In dismissing, with effect 
from the 15t.h July, 1964, Sarvashn Bandhu Lohar, Blacksmith, 
Govind Lohar, Blacksmith, Dukhl Shao Hammerman, and Govind 
Lohar, Hammerman?. If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled? 

•> The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the 
-• ine L " u , u t. t in/;= nn itc flip The employers as well as the 

iotS ggSK jjf Centre! 

» the tile ihh Tribunal « reference 

No. 49 of 1967. 

3 The affected workmen, Bandhu Lohar was working as a ^^cksmlth, Govind 
LoharU'e ae a «-,«»»». — 3 -‘2,7^°“.* be 

S “ S“g£E“ 5<2*W « C j 

iiSS SttS. .Wa workmen 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1SS 5 4765 


submitted their explanations denying the charges and pleading not guilty. With 
notice to the affected workmen Sri O. P. Verma, CP-O- conducted the enquiry 
on 16th June, 1964. On the same day the workmen submitted a joint representa¬ 
tion to the manager complaining inter alia that they were not permitted to be 
represented by the Local Secretary of the Union and to examine the defence 
witnesses. The manager fixed 29th June, 1964 as the date for further enquiry and 
informed the affected workmen to produce their defence witnesses on that day 
and allowed them at the same time to be represented by tbs Local Secretary of 
the Union. Thereafter the affected workmen approached the Conciliation Officer 
on 16th July, 1964 aggrieved by the action of the employers suspending _ them 
for more than 10 days. After that date the management of the employers issued 
orders dismissing the affected workmen from services with effect from 15th July, 
1964- These facts are not controverted. 


4- The case of the workmen is that the charges brought against the affected 
workmen were false and baseless, that the charges were vague and did not 
disclose any act of misconduct, that no enquiry was held on 29th June, 1964 as 
directed by the manager although the affected workmen, accompanied by the 
Local Secretary of the Kindusthan Khan Mazdoor Sangh duly presented them¬ 
selves at the place and time fixed for the enquiry, that the enquiry held on 16th 
June, 1964 was coloured with prejudice and bias against the affected workmen 
and the procedure adopted therein was arbitrary in utter disregard of natural 
justice, that in the enquiry on 16th June. 1964 the request of the affected workmen 
to allow them to be represented through their co-worker and Local Secretary of 
the Union and for calling' the two witnesses to depose in their defence was rejected, 
that the enquiry was a farce, in as much as, the affected workmen were not 
permitted even to cross-examine the prosecution witnesses, that the order of 
examination of witnesses in the enquiry caused prejudice to the affected workmen, 
that the enquiry was never completed nor did the enquiry officer submit any 
report to the manager nor did he find the a-.eoied workmen guilty of the charges 
and that the action of the management of the employers against the affected 
workmen was against the Standing 1 Orders, equity and natural justice.. The 
employers have pleaded in their defence that the further enquiry directed to be 
made on 29th June, 1964 could not he held as the a fleeted workmen and their 
representatives did not attend the enquiry, that in the enquiry held on 16th June, 
1964 the charges of misconduct against the affected workmen were proved beyond 
doubt, that the enquiry held was in accordance with the Standing Orders and 
principles of natural justice and that it was quite justified. In view of the 
pleadings the short question following for determination is whether the enquiry 
held against the affected workmen was complete and was in accordance with 
the principles of natural justice. 


a The workmen were represented by Sri Gurbaehan Singh and Sri S. V- 
Acharior Vice President and General Secretary respectively of Hindusthan Khan 
Mazdoor’ Sangh and the employers by Sri S- R. P- Singh, Labour Officer- By 
consent of the employers Exts. Wl(a) to (d), Exts. W2(a) to (d), Exts. W3(a) to (d), 
Ext W4, Exts. W5(a) to (c), Exts. W6, W7, W8. W9. W10, Wll, W12, W13(a) to (d) 
were marked for the workmen. By consent of the workmen Exts. Ml (a) to (d), 
M2(a) to (d) M3 & M4(a) to (d) were marked for the employers. On benalf of 
th* workmen the witnesses WWi to WW5 were examined and Exts- W14 to W17 
were marked. On behalf of the employers the witnesses, MW1 to MW3 were 
examined and Exts. M5 to M15 were marked. 


6 All the four affected workmen was served with charge-sheets on ilth June. 
1964' individually- The charge-sheets relating to the affected workmen Bandhu 
Lohar is Ext. Wl(a), Govind Lohar is Ext. Wl(b), Dukhi Shao is Ext- Wl(c) and 
Govind Lohar, hammerman is Ext. Wl(d). The allegations against all the tour' 
affected workmen are that at about 1 p.m. on 6th June, 1964 when the Agent, 
D ~G- Gupte. Manager, C- S. Sharma and the Assistant Manager, R. G- Jam, 
came out of the mine, the affected workmen Bandhu Lohar and the remaining 
four affected workmen barred their way, that the affected workman Bandhu 
Lohar caught hold of the arm of the Agent and assaulted him with a slap, and 
the three remaining affected workmen started shouting ‘maro maro and attacked 
him with sticks and that when the Manager and the Assistant Manager tried to. 
save the Agent and intervene all the affected workmen manhandled them- Exts. 
Wl(a) to Wl(d) correspond to Exts. M4(a) to M4fdh Through the charge-sheets 
the affected workmen were advised to submit their explanations within 48 hours 
Accordingly the four affected workmen submitted their explanations, Exts- W2(a) 
to W2(d>, denying the charges and the allegaaons contained m „bem flatly and 
averring that the charges were brought against them with a view V J*?® 

assault made by the Agent. D. G. Gupte on the affected workmen Bandhu Lohar 
at about 11-30 a.m. The manager requisitioned the sen,ices of O- P- verma, 



47^ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1^89 [Part li¬ 


the Chief Personnel Officer from the Central Group Office to conduct the enquiry 
and issued notices Exts. W3(a) to W3(d) to the affected workmen informing 
them that the enquiry into the charges against them would be conducted by 
O, P, Verma on 6th June, 1964 ,;i o-3fl a-m. in the manager s office. All the four 
affected workmen attended the enquiry- The enquiry proceedings are Exts- M5 
to 1VU2- Daring tne enquiry O. P- Verma got the statements recorded by A- D- 
Sukhla, the Welfare Officer who is examined in this Tribunal as MW1. During 
the enquiry the statements of the Agent, D- G. Gupte, Manager, C. S- Sharma, 
Assistant Manage'.', R- G- Jain and the Peon Ram Chandra were recorded and 
they are respectively Exts- M9 to M12 The enquiry officer also recorded state¬ 
ments of the four affected workmen and the 1 statements are Exts. M5 to M8- 
A- D- Shukla, MW1 also has deposed that all the four affected workmen were 
present In the enquiry. He further deposed that in presence of the affected 
workmen he recorded statements of all witnesses as directed by the Enquiry 
Officer, that the affected workmen and other witnesses admitted the statements 
t,o be correct when read over and explained, that the affected workmen refused 
to affix their thumb impressions and signatures to' their statements and that 
j. B. Bhattacharya. a member of the executive of Hindusthan Khan Mazdoor 
Sangh was also present at the enquiry. Out of the four affected workmen 
Bandhu Lohar, Dukhl Shao and Govind Mistry are examined before this Tribunal 
as WW2 to WW4- All ol them have also admitted that they attended the enquiry 
held against them on 16th June, 1964- To this extent there is no dispute It 
also appears that soon after the enquiry the affected workmen represented 
to the manager that during the enquiry they were not allowed to be represented 
by their co-worker and Local Secretary of the Union, A. K- Das and to produce 
their defence witnesses. However, it is not denied by the affected workmen 
that through letters Exts. Ml (a) to Ml (cl) dated 20th June, 1964 the manager 
gave them an opportunity to produce their witnesses and also to be represented 
by A. K- Das on 23rd June, 19G4 at 3.30 p-m. at. the manager’s office- But they 
■did not attend the enquiry, although Ram Chandra, Office Peon went to them to 
take them to the enquiry. It is not correct to say that there was 
no enquiry at all on 23rd June, 1964. The affected workmen Dukhi Shao. WW3 
himself says that the enquiry was again held on 23rd June, 1964 and that they 
knew that the enquiry was to be held on that day- The Office Peon, WW2 also 
has in has evidence that he went twice to the affected workmen inviting them 
to the enuiry on 23rd June, 1964, but the affected workmen did not attend the 
enquiry- Again admittedly, the manager sent communications, Exts. M2(a) to 
M2(d) on 26th June, 1964'fixing the further date for continuance of the enquiry 
on 29th June. 1964 to produce their witnesses and also to be represented by 
A. K. Das. But the affected workmen did not attend the enquiry. Again, they 
cannot be believed that no enquiry was held on 29th June, 1964- In their subse¬ 
quent correspondence with the manager or representation to the Conciliation 
Officer I find no reference that they were willing to attend the enquiry on 23rd 
June, 1964 or 29th June, 1964 or they made any attempt to attend It. In spite of 
giving opportunity the affected workmen did not lake advantage and refused 
to participate in the further enquiry- They themselves are to be blamed and 
not the employers. 

7 . Now it is to be seen if the enquiry held on 16th June, 1964 was complete 
and in accordance with the principles of natural justice- The contention of the 
workmen is that the enquiry was never completed and the enquiry officer did 
not submit his report to the manager. But this contention is against the record- 
The enuiry report is Ext. M13- It is true that the enquiry officer is not examined, 
hut A. D. Shukla, MW1 has identified the signature of the enquiry officer on 
the report Ext- Ml 3. It Is to be remembered that non-examination of the enquiry 
Officer cannot be fatal- The report is concluded with the statement that the 
high-handed attitude of the affected workmen could not be justified under any 
circumstance and, therefore, the enquiry officer suggested, that, they should he 
dismissed from service- Thus, there is no substance in the contention that there 
was ho report of the enquiry officer or that the enquiry office" did not find the 
affected workmen guilty of the charges. During the enquiry, the Agent, Manager, 
Assistant Manager find Office Peon were examined to substantiate the charges 
brought against the affected workmen. Their statements Exts. M9 to M12 
are proved by MW1, who had recorded them under the direction and super¬ 
vision of the enquiry officer. The statements Exts. M9 to Mil support 
the Charge allegations. It is true that all the three witnesses are the injured 
persons. But that is no reason why their sworn testimony should not be believ¬ 
ed. The affected workmen have simply denied the charge brought against them 
and deposed that at the material time thev were engaged elsewhere. But they 
did not lead any evidence In support of their version of the case- It Is true that 
the affected workmen were examined before the examination of the prosecution 




Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 4767 


witnesses and the procedure adopted is not commendable. But merely on that 
ground I cannot conclude that any prejudice was caused to the affected work¬ 
men. They were given ample opportunity to cross-examine the prosecution 
witnesses and lead their defence. As a matter of fact also the prosecution witness, 
D- G. Gupte has been cross-examined by the affected workman, Govind Mistry. 
When the affected workmen deliberately declined to cross-examine the prosecu¬ 
tion witnesses and lead their defence and on the material before him the enquiry 
officer found the charges as established, I do not find any reason to interfere 
with the findings or the subsequent action taken by the employers based on 
the findings. I am not to sit over the enquiry as an appellate authority and 
enter into minute appreciation of evidence- 

8 An objection also is taken that the order of dismissal was not correct. In 
the charge-sheets para 27(5) of the Certified Standing Orders is referred to- But 
it is a mistake for the para 29(5) of the Certified Standing Orders, winch deals 
with the misconduct, including in it drunkenness, fighting, riotous or disorderly 
and indecent behaviour. When the facts mentioned in the charge-sheet are clear 
and unambiguous mere wrong mention of the provision of the Certified Standing 
Orders does not vitiate the charges. Ext. Ml4 is the letter through which the 
manager sought permission from the Director, Central Administrative Office for 
dismissal of the affected workmen on the enquiry report, Ext. M13 and the 
permission accorded by the Director is Ext. Ml 5. It Is argued that a Director 
is not an owner competent to accord the approval in terms of Para 30 of the 
Certified Standing Orders. I cannot agree that, a Director cannot be the owner. 
It is also contended that the order of dismissal and contravened Section 33 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, inasmuch as it was passed during the pendency 
of the Conciliation Proceedings before the Conciliation Officer. Against their 
suspension, the affected workmen, through their representative approached the 
Conciliation Officer by means of the appfication, Ext, W9 dated 16th July 1964 
and the orders of dismissal of the affected workmen are said to have been receiv¬ 
ed by them on 18th July 1964 and, thus, it is urged that the orders of dismissal 
should be deemed to hive been passed during pendency of the conciliation pro¬ 
ceedings and hit by Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. But the 
orders of dismissal, Exts- W3(a) to W3(d) are dated 15th July 1964 and there is 
absolutely no material to suggest that they were not passed on 15th July 1964, 
before the Conciliation Officer received the letter, Ext- W9 on 16th July 1064- 
For all the above reasons I find no substance In the objections raised on behalf 
of the workmen. 

9, I, therefore, hold that the management of the Balihari Colliery of Messrs 
Balihari Coal Co. (P) Ltd., and their Managing Agents, Khatau & Company 
(P) Limited were justified in dismissing with effect from 15th July 1964 the 
affected workmen Bandhu Lohar. Blacksmith, Govind Lohar, Blacksmith, Dukhi 
Shao, Hammerman and Govind Lohar, Hammerman and, consequently, they are 
not entitled to any relief. The award is made accordingly and submitted under 
Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

(Sd.) N. Venkata Rao. 

Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Additional Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 

Appendix I 

BE TORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 2 ' AT 

DHANB\D 

Reference No. 49 of 1967 

Employers in relation to the Balihari Colliery of Messrs Balihari Coal Co. (P) Ltd.' 

P.O. Kusunda, Distt. Dhanbad. 

AND 

Their workmen 


List of Documents Admitted in Evidence'for the Employers 


Distin¬ 
guishing 
mark or 
number 

Description of document & date 

Date of 
admission 

Whether 
admitted 
after or 
without 
obj ection. 

I 

2 

3 

4 

F.x.Mi (a) 
Ex.Mi (b) 

Manager’s letter dt. 20 - 6-64 to Bandhu Lohar . 

Do.J to Govind Lohar. hammerman. 

8 - 8-67 

Do. 

A imitted - 
Do, i, 



4768 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II— 


i 


3 


4 


Ex.Mr (c) 

Manager’s letterdt. 20 - 6-64 to Govind Lohar, blacksmith 

8 - 8-67 

Admitted 

Ex.Mi (d) 

Do. to Dukhi Shao 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.Ma fa) 

Manager’s letter dt. 26 - 6-64 Bandhu Lohar 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.M- (b) 

Do. to Govind Lohar, blacksmith 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.Mz (c) 

Do. to Dukhi Shao 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.M 2 (d) 

Do. to Govind Lohar 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. M 3 

Joint representation dt. 23 - 6-64 by S/Sri Dukhi Shao, 
Bandhu Lohar, Govind Lohar and Govind Lohar 
hammerman. 

Do. 

Do.. 

EX.M 4 (a) 

Charge-sheet dt. 11 - 6-64 issued to BanJ’nu Lohar 

Do. 

Do. 

EX.M 4 (b) 

Do. to Dukhi Shao 

Do. 

Do. 

EX.M 4 (c; 

Do. to Govind Lohar, blacksmith 

Do. 

Do. 

EX.M 4 (d) 

Do. to Govind Lohar, hammerman 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.Ms 

Statement dt. 16 - 6-64 of Bandhu Lohar 

23 -S -67 ‘ 

On proved 

Ex.M 6 

Statement of Sri Dukhi Shao dt. 16 - 6-64 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.M- 

Statement dt. 16 - 6-64 of Sri Govind, blacksmith 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.MS 

Statement dt. 16 - 6-64 of Sri Govind Lohar, hammerman 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.M'j 

Statement dt. 16 - 6-64 of Sri D. G. Gupte, Agent 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.M.o 

Statement of Sri C. S. Sharma, Ma . .gcr dt. io-f-64 . 

Do, 

Do. 

Ex.Mri 

Statement dt. 16 - 6-64 of Sri R. G. Jam, Asst'. Manager 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.M :2 

Statement dt. 23 - 6-64 of Ram Chandra, office peon 

Da. 

Do. 

EX.M 13 

Enquiry Report of the concerned workman reported by 

O- P. Verma dt. 4 - 7-64 addressed to manager. 

Do. 

Do, 

Ex.Mri 

Letter dt. 9 - 7-64 of the colliery manager to Director re¬ 
garding dismissal of workmen 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.Mrj 

Letter dt. 11 - 7-64 to Manager regarding dismissal order 
from Director. 

Do. 

Do. 


List of Documents admitted in evidence for the Workmen 


Distin¬ 
guishing 
mark or 
number 

Description of document & date 

Dave of 
admission 

Whether 
admitted 
after or 
without 
objection. 

Ex-Wi (a) 

Charge-sheet No. CH/OM/ 851 / 6/64 dt. 11 - 6-64 

S- 8-67 

Admitted 

Ex.WT fb) 

Do. 

No. CE1/OM /849 / 6/64 
dt. 13 - 6-64 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. Wi (c; 

Do. 

No. CH/OM/848/6/64 
dt. x 1 - 6-64 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.Wi (d) 

Do. 

No. CH/OM/d5£> 6 'o-i 
at. n- 6-64 

V) > 

Do. 

Ex.W 2 (a) 

Reply of charge-sheet dt. 13 - 6 - 64 . 
of Sii Bandhu Lohar. 

0 8-67 

Do. 

Ex.tXVb) 

Do. 

Govmd Lohar ot. 12 - 6-64 

Do. 

Do. 

ExAX'afc; 

Do. 

Dukhi Sliao dt. 12 - 6 - 64 . 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.Vf 2 v.d_; 

Do. 

Govind Lohar dt, [-’.- 6 - 64 . 

Do. 

Do. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1 967/P AUSA 2, 1889 4769 


Distingui¬ 
shing mark 
of number 

Description of document and date 

Date of 
admission 

Whether 
admitted 
after or 

without 
objection 

Ex.W 3 (a) 

Manager’s letter dt. 13 - 6 - 64 - 

to concerned workman . No. CSS/OM/ 869 / 6/64 

8 - 8-67 

Admitted 

Ex.W 3 (b) 

Do. CSS/OM/ 86 S/ 6/64 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.W3(c) 

Do. CSS/OM' 863 / 6/64 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.W 3 (d) 

Do. CSS/OM/S 64 / 6/64 

Do. 

Dc. 

EX.W 4 

Joint petition or workmen dt. 16 - 6-64 addressed to 
manager 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.WsCa) 

Letter No. ENQ'CH/ 937 / 6/64 dt. 16 - 6-64 of Manager. 
Do. BNQ/OM/ 93 S/ 6/64 

Do- 

Do. 

Ex.WsCb) 

Do. 

Do. 

.Ex.W5(c) 

Do. ENQ'OM' 939 / 6/64 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. W 6 

[oint letter of workmen dt. 27 - 6-64 to Manager 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.Vv'7 

Letter No. BL- 2 /D( 62 o )/64 dt. 9 - 7-64 
of General Secretary to Manager. 

Do. 

Do, 

Ex.WS 

Letter No- B.L. D/ 627/64 dr. 15 - 7-64 of General Secre- 
tarv to Manager. 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.Wg 

Letter No. B.L. 0 / 2 ( 6291/64 dt. 16 - 7-64 of General 
Secretary to C. O. (C) D aanbad. 

Do. 

Do. 

Edx.WlO 

Letter No. D. 144 / 1 ( 1941/64 at. 16 - 7-64 of Conciliation 
Officer, Dhanbsd-i. 

Fixing the date for conciliation. 

Do. 

Do, 

Ex. Wn 

Letter dt. 20 - 7-64 of the General Secretary to Concilia¬ 
tion Officer (.Central ) Dhanbad-i 

Do, 

Do. 

EX.W 12 ' 

Letter dt. 25 - 7-64 of the Conciliation Officer (Central) 
Dhanbad -1 to Manager. 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. Wi 3 (a) 

Letter dt. 15 - 7-64 of manager to Shri Govind Lohar, 
hammerman. 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.W 13 (b) 

Do. to Govind Lohar, blacksmith 

Do. 

Do 

Ex.Wi 3 (c) 

Do. to Dukhi Shao, hammerman. 

Do. 

Do 

Ex.\Vi 3 (d) 

Do. to Bandhu Lohar, blacksmith 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex W 14 

Certified copy of the standing orders. 

Do. 


EX.W 15 

Letter dc. 20 - 7-64 of Sri S.V. Acharior, General Sec¬ 
retary to Manager, Balihaii Colliery 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex.W 16 

Joint petition cli. 16 - 6-64 of the concerned workmen to| 
the enquiry officer Balihaii Colliery. 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. W 17 | 

Letter dt. 29 - 6-64 of Shri Govind Lohar blacksmith to 
manager, Bahhari Colliery. 

Do. 

Do. 


(Sd.) N. Venkata Rao 

Presiding Officer, Central Government Additional Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad. 


Appendix II 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (N 0 . 2 ) 

AT DHtNBAD. 

Refrence No. 49 OF 196". 

Employers in relation to Babhari Coiliery of M/s. Balihaii Coal Co. (P) Ltd. 

P. O. Kusunda, Distt. Dhanbad. 

And 


Their workmen. 


List of Witenesses Examined for the Employers. 

No. of 
witnes 


Name of witness 

Date of exa¬ 
mination 

MW 1 
MW2 
SW 3 

. Sri A. D. Shukia 

Sri Ramcb -ndra 
. Sri D.G. Gapte 


23 - 8-67 

Do. 

Do. 






477 O THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAU9A 2, 1889 [Part 11- 


List of Witness Examined for the Workmen 

No. of 

Nam' of witness 

Date of 

witness 


examination^ 

WWi 

Shri S. V. Acbariat . 

24 - 8-67 

WW 2 

Shri Bandhu Lohar ....... 

Do. 

WW 3 

Shri Dukhi Shao ....... 

Do. 

WW 4 

Shri Govind Mistrv ....... 

Do. 

WW; 

Shri J. Bhauacharjee ....... 

Du. 


(Sd-) N, Venkata Rao, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Additional Industrial Tribunal, 

DhanbadL 

TNo. 2/99/84-LRU.], 


New Delhi, the 14th December 1967 

S.O. 1528. —In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1B47 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal No. 2, Dhanbad, In the industrial dispute between the 
employers In relation to the Digwadlh Colliery of Messrs- Tata Iron and Steel 
Company Limited, Jamadoba, Post Office Jealjora, District Dhanbad, and their 
workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the 12th December, 
1967. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 2) 

AT DHANBAD. 

In the matter of a reference under Section 10(1)(d) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 

Reference No. 19 of 1967 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Digwadlh Colliery of Messrs. Tata Iron and 
Steel Company Limited, Jamadoba, Post Office Jealgora, District 
Dhanbad. 

AND 


Their workmen. 

Present: 

Sri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer- 


Appearances : 

For the Employers—Sri S- N. Singh, A C P,&W. O. 

For the Workmen—Sri Pritlsh Chanda. President, Tata Colliery Workers*' 


Union. 

State; Bihar. 


Industry : Coal- 


Dhanbad, dated the 4th December 1907 
Schedule 


TVu, [ '' , n 1 r:ii Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers S relation to the' Digwadlh Colliery of Messrs Tata Iron 
and Steel Company Limited, Jamadoba, Post Office Jealgora, DiM.nct Dhanbad, 
and their workmen by its order No. 2/4/65-LRII dated the 8th February, 1965 
referred to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under Sec 
tlon lQ(l)td) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1917 for adjudication the dispute in 
respect of the matters specified in the schedule annexed thereto. The schedule 
Is extracted below: 


"Whether the dismissal with 
Sarvashrl Muneshwar, 


Schedule 

effect from the 10th October, 1964. of 
Harl Ahlr, JagarnatR Coalfield Recruiting 





S$c. I'»£ GAZETTE Of INPIA: DECEMBER 2J, 196T/PAU8A 2, 1889 


4771 


Organisation Miners pf the Digwadih Colliery of Messrs. Tata Iron and 
Steel Company Limited by the management of the said colliery was 
justified? If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled?” 

1- The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Rhanbad registered the 
reference as reference No. 22 of 1905 on its file. The workmen filed their state¬ 
ment of demands. While it was pending before the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad the proceeding was transferred fo this Tribunal, by the 
Central Government by Its order No, 8/25/67-LRII cteted Bth May, 1967 under 
Section 33(B)(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. Consequently, the reference 
Is renumbered on the file of this Tribunal as reference No. 19 of 1907- The 
employers also filed their statement of demands- 

3- The affected workmen, Muneshwar, Hari Ahjr and Jagarnatb (hereinafter 
referred to as the affected workmen) tvere Coal Recruiting prganisatibn Miners 
of the Digwadih Colliery of the opposite party. As a ^sRlt of a don-}eptic 
enquiry the three affected workmen were dismissed from services with effect frpm 
10th October, 1964. The case of the workmen is that the dismissal of the 
affected workmen was the outcome Of the victimisation policy of the opposite 
party, in as much as they took a leading part in organising the C-R-Q. Labourers 
Under the Tata Colliery Workers’ Union and that the domestic enquiry was 
nothing hut a show and It was held in a perfunctuary manner against a" the 
accepted principles afl natural justice- The defence pleaded by the employers 
is that they are unaware if any of the affected workmen was a member of any 
union on or; before 10th October, 1964, that the allegation of victimisation Is 
baseless and that the enquiry held was in conformity with the Certified Standing 
Orders of the colliery and prescribed procedure. Thp employers also took 
objection that the dispute Involved In the reference was an individual dispute 
and not Industrial Dispute- 

4- The workmen were represented by Sri Priflsh Chanda, President, Tata 
Colliery Workers’ Union and the employers by Sri S- N. Singh, A.C P. & W-O- 
Ry consent of the workmen Exts, Ml to M12 were marked for the employers 
apd by consent of the employers Exts W1 to W3 were marked for the workmen. 
Op behalf of the workmen four witnesses were examined and Exts- W4 to W7 
were marked 

5. It appears that sometime after 1961, majority of the C.R.Q. workmen became 
members in the Union of the I-N-T.U-C- and remained so till the beginning of 
1963, when they started becoming members of the union belonging to U-T-U-C. 
One of the affected workman, Muneshwar, who examined himself as WW1, has 
deposed that since 1963 he was an active member of the U.T.U C- Union, writing 
applications on behalf of the member workmen in respect of their grievances and 
organising meetings etc. He was also enrolling members. He had himself become 
member and paid the subscription and also had collected subscriptions from the 
other two affected workmen, Jagarnatb and Hari Ahir- He has Identified the 
counterfoils of the receipts, Ext. W4 relating to Jagarnafb, Ext. W5 relating to 
Hari Ahir and Ext- W6 relating to himself and also identified his signatures on 
them as Collector of the subscriptions. The affected workman, Jagarnath also 
examined himself as WW3 and deposed that he, Muneshwar and Hari Ahir are 
members of the U-T.U.C. branch since 1963 and that Muneshwar had collected 
subscriptions relating to his membership- He has also Identified the counterfoil 
of his receipt, Ext- WW4. Anti Sgrkar, the Secretary of the U-T-U-C- Union is 
examined as WW4. He has described the procedure relating to enrolment of 
members and collection of subscriptions from them- According to him the printed 
receipt books are distributed among his workers they collect subscriptions from 
the Individual members issuing receipts alongwith their their signatures and submit 
the counterfoil books alongwith the subscriptions collected, to him. Thus names, 
of such members are entered into the membership register according to convenience. 
He further deposed that if there is a dispute regarding membership of any Individual, 
the counterfoil Is more authentic than the membership register. The three witnesses 
are sufficiently cross-examined, but nothing is elicited to affect their veracity. The 
failure report of the Conciliation Officer, Ext. W2 shows that the Secretary, Tata 
Colliery Workers’ Union represented the case of the affected workmen before him- 
There Is absolutely no rebutal evidence in this respect. Further, the employers 
had pleaded merely their Ignorance about the affected workmen being members 
of the U.T.U.C- Branch. Thus, I do not find any substance in the objection raised 
by the employers that the dispute involved in the reference was not an Industrial 
dispute 

6 . Tin chargesheets issued to the three affected workmen are Exts Ml, M2 
and M3. They are Issued on 3/5-9-1964- The allegation made in the ohuigeshcets 





THE GAZETTE OT INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


was that on 31st August, 1964 at about 10*30 p.m- In the ‘B’ shift duty the three 
affected workmen assaulted one Ramnarayan, CRO. Labour while on duty under¬ 
ground In 16A seam near 11th level of 125 H.P. dip, and that the act of the 
affected workmen amounted to serious misconduct under Clause 19 (5 and 19) 
of the Certified Standing Orders making them liable for dismissal from service- 
The three affected workmen submitted their explanations, denying the charge, 
allegation and stating that the charge-sheets were issued to them with a mate fide 
intention of victimising them- The Welfare Officer issued notices, Exts. M4, M5 
and M6 to the affected workmen fixing the date and time of the enquiry and 
calling upon them to attend it- Ext, M7 Is a notice for the enquiry on a subse¬ 
quent date Ext. M8 is the enquiry proceedings, Ext, M9 is the enquiry report 
and Exts. M10, MU and M12 are the orders issued to the affected workmen dis¬ 
missing them from service with effect from 10th October, 1964- This material 
shows that during the enquiry 5 witnesses were examined for the prosecution in 
addition to the Injured Ram Narayan and that the affected workmen produced 
9 witnesses In their defence. They declined to produce Marat, Ramsingasah, Adya, 
Laxman and Ramadhar whom they had cited earlier as their defence witnesses- 

The enquiry officer concluded that he was not convinced with the evidence of 

defence and found that the charge against the affected workmen stood fully 

proved- He also opined that the oharge being serious the affected workmen 

deserved the extreme punishment- The injured workman, Ramnarain has in his 
evidence that Hari Ahir, Manraj, started the trouble, thereafter Muneshwar and 
Jagarnath came from 13th level and started telling others to beat him and, thus, 
all the four started assultlng him and threw him on the track. Bhagi deposed 
that Ramnarain was assulted by Hari, Manraj, Jagarnath and Muneshwar. Jamuna 
Ashir Is also an eye witness of the occurrence and he deposed that Munshwar, 
Jagarnath, Hari and Manraj assulted Ramnarain. Mohamad Mia No. 1 aid not 
see Ramnarain actually being beaten but saw him Injured on his forehead end 
bleeding. He, Bhagi and two others carried Ramnarain to the main line curve- 
Mohamad Mia No. 2 also saw Ramnarain bleeding with a head Injury near the 
track- Sanat Kumar Laha, the compounder of DIgwadih dispensary, deposed 
that at about 12-30 a.m. he was called for giving medical aid to Ramnarain. He 
saw Injury on right side of his nose and lip. Against this prosecution the evidence 
the defence witness Rambrieh has stated that Ramnarain and Manraj started quar¬ 
reling and assultlng each other and Ramnarain got serious injuries. He also spoke 
of the presence of Hari on the scene. The defence witness, Lachrqi) did not see 
any assult and knew nothing about the occurence. Parsurum Tewari, also examined 
on behalf of the affected workmen, deposed that he saw Ramnarain lying with 
Injury on his forehead and on enquiry came to know that Manraj and Ramnarain 
quarreled for a tub during which Manraj had assulted Ramnarain. R. N Chakra- 
borty, a mining sirdar, also a defence witness, said that he found Ramnarain lying 
near the siding line of No. 11 level with injuries on his forehead. N. C. Majhi, 
an overman, saw Ramnarain being carried and from a stone cutter learned that 
Manraj has assulted Muneshwar. Ramraj Pandey, saw Ramnarain being carried 
by Bhagi and Lachran. He also saw bleeding injuries on the forehead of Ram¬ 
narain. Bhagi and Lachran told him that Manraj has assulted Ramnarain- 
Shyamjit has in his evidence that he saw a crowd at the main line curve and 
learnt that Manraj had assulted Ramnarain. Tiratb says that Ramnarain and 
Manraj started a quarrel over loading the 11th tub, they started fighting and in 
that Ramnarain got injuries. The last defence witness Ramli, also deposed that 
Manraj and Ramnarain started quarreling, but he did not see how Ramnarain 
got injuries- From the defence evidence also it is corroborated that Ramnarain 
had sustained injuries. Having gone through the evidence of the defence witnesses, 
I find that it corroborates to an extent the prosecution case. It does not speak 
about the presence of the affected workmen, but it does not categorically state 
that they were not present on the scene of occurrence and were present at any 
other place. I am not expected to appreciate the evidence critically as an appellate 
court and come to my own conclusion- 


7. It Is argued for the affected workmen that the management did not apply 
its mind to the explanations submitted by the affected workmen to the chargesheets 
served on them before making up its mind to proceed with the enquiry- It is 
pointed out that the explanation of the affected workmen were submitted on 
8 th September, 1964 while two notices, Exts. M4 and M6 were prepared on the 
same date and the notice, Ext M5 much earlier to It. It is also observed that out 
of the four workmen assaulting Ramnarain. the workmen, Manraj, is exonerated 
and only the three affected workmen were proceeded against, that the joint 
enquiry against the three affected workmen vitiated the enquiry and that the findings 
of the enquiry officer were perverse. I do not find any substance In the objections 
raised. As 1 have already pointed out, it cannot be said that the enquiry officer 





,nc. . j HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


477 


had no material at all before him to support his findings. The affected workmen 
cross-examined the prosecution witnesses at a great length and, as such, there 
Is no basis for complainant that the affected workmen were not given opportunity 
to cross-examine the prosecution witnesses or to lead their defence. It is argued 
that the enquiry officer did not discuss the evidence in detail. The report of the 
enquiry officer should not be Judged as a Judgement of a court of law. 1 also do 
not find any force in the objection that the injury certificates relating to Ramnarain 
are not produced, when the defence witnesses themselves conceded Ramnarain 
having received head injuries. Under clause 19 (5 of 19) of the Certified Standing 
Orders fighting is misconduct to be visited with the penalty of dismissal. I do not 
find any flaw in the departmental enquiry conducted against the affected workmen 
or in the punishment imposed on them In this view, I find no roof to infer 
that the action of the employers was main fide with the intention of victimising 
the affected workmen- 

8 - I, therefore, find that the dismissal of the affected workmen, Muneshwar, 
Harl Ahir and Jagarnath Coalfield Recruiting Organisation Miners of the Digwadlh 
Colliery of Messrs. Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited by the management of 
the said colliery, with effect from 10 th October, 1964 was justified, and, conse¬ 
quently, the affected workmen arc not entitled to any relief. The award is made 
accordingly and submitted under Section 13 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1 £147- 

(Sd.) N- Venkata R'ao, 

Presiding Officer, 

Central Government, Additional Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad. 

Appendix I 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
(No. 2 ) AT DHANBAD 

Reference No. 19 of 1967 

Employers in relation to Digwadih Colliery of M/s. Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd., P.O 
Jealgora, Distt. Dhanbad, 

And 

Their workman 

Li\t of documents admitted in evide-tcefor the Employers 


Distinguishing mark or 
number 

Description of documents & date 

Date of 
admission 

Whether 
adirnttedf 
after or 
without 
objection 

Ex. M. 1 

Chargeshect No. 399 dalcd 3 / 5 - 9-64 issued 
to Shri Muneshwar C.R.O. together with 
its reply ...... 

17 - 7-67 

Admitted. 

Ex. M. 2 

Chargeshect' No. 398 dl. 3 / 5 - 9-64 issued to 
to Shri Hari Ahir, C.R.O. Labour together 
with its reply. 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. M. 3 

Chargesheet No. 379 dt. 3 / 5 - 9-64 issued to 
Sri Jagarnath, C.R.O. Labour together 
with its reply ..... 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. M. 4 

Letter No. 371 dt. 9 - 9-64 to Sri Muneshwar 
to call for enquiry .... 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. M. 5 . * 

. Letter No. 309 dt. 3 / 5 - 9-64 to Sri Hari 
Ahir to call for an enquiry 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. M. 6 

Letter No. 370 dt. 9 - 9-64 to Sri Jagarnath, 
C.R.O. Labour to call for an enquiry . 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. M. 7 . . £ 

. J Letter No. Dig/WO(P) 374/66 dt. 14 - 9-64 
issued to S/Shri Hari Ahir, Jagarnath 
and Muneshwar. 

Do. 

Do. 






4774 

THE GAZETTE 

OE INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 

1889 

[Part 11— 


I 

2 

- 

3 

4 

Ex. M. 

8 

Enquiry proceedings in 48 pages 


17-7-67 

Admitted 

Ex. M. 

9 

Recommendation of the manager for 
missing the workmen , 

dis- 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. Ad. 

1° 

Copy of letter No. AJG/ 31 / 2388/64 
5 - 10-64 . 

dt. 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. M. 

r 1 

Copy of letter No. AJG/ 31 / 2387/64 
5 - 10-64 . 

dt, 

Do- 

Do. 

Ex. Ai. 

12 

Copy of letter No. AJG/ 31 / 2386/64 
5 - 10-64 . 

dt, 

Do. 

Do. 


List of document admitted in evidence for tvorkman 


Distinguishing 

Description of document and date 

Date of 

Whether 

mark or number 

admission 

admitted 
after or 
without 
objection 


Ex. W 1 

. Copy of management’s note before the 




Conciliation Officer dt. 10 - 12-64 

7-8-67 

Admitted 

Ex. W 2 

. Failure report of the conciliation in ori¬ 




ginal ...... 

Do. 

Do. 

E». V 3 

Copy of the management’s letter No. JMB/ 
475/14767 dt. 13/14-11-64 from C.M.E. 
TISCO to Conciliation Officer (C) 




Dhanbad ..... 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. W 4 

. Counterpart of the membership report No. 




8389 of Sri Jagannath .... 

Do. 

On proved 
of wwr 

Ex. W 5 

. Counterpart of the membership report No. 




8390 of Alta Singh .... 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. W 6 

. Counterpart of the membership receipt No. 




8392 of Sri Muneshwar 

Do. 

Do. 

Ex. W 7 

. Copy of the joint representation by C.R.O. 




Labour ...... 

Do. On proved of 




(Sd.) N. Venkata Rao, 


Presiding Officer, 

Central Government 
Additional Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad 





Sec. ?/ii)] 


. OF 


- +e> 


& 


Appendix II 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 2 ) 

AT DHANBAD 


Reference No. 19 of 1967 

Employers in relation to Digwadih Colliery of M/s. Tata Iron& Steel Co. Ltd., P. O. Jealgora, 
Distt. Dhanbad. 


And 

Their Workman 

List of witnesses Examined for the Employer 


No. of wltneses 


Name of witness 


Date of examination 


NIL 


List of witnesses Examined for the workman 


No. of witness 


Name of witness Dath of Examination 


WW 1 ..... Muneshwar Kumar 7 - 8-67 

TO 2 ..... Bindeshwari Prasad 7 - 8-67 

TO 3 , .... Jagannath . , . 7 - 8-67 

TO 4 .... . Anil Sarkar 7 - 8-67 


(Sd.)N. Venkata Rao, 

Presiding Officer, 

Central Government 
Additional Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad. 

[No. 2/4/63-LRII-l 

S O- 1529.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 194.71, the Central Government hereby publishes the following myaid of the 
Industrial Tribunal,, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Ardhogram Khar, Colliery, Post Office Ardhogram, Djatfjct. 
Bankura and their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on 
the 8 th December, 1907. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 11 of 1967 


Parttkb: 

Employers in relation to the Ardhogram Khas Colliery, 

AND 

Their workmen 


Present: 

Shri S- K. Sm—Presiding Officer. 

Appkarancsb: 

On behalf of Employers —Shri Birendra Naih Sanyal, Advocate. 

On behalf of Workmen —Shn B. Malkhandy Vice-President, Colliery 
Mezdoor Sabha. 




^477 6 THE GAZETTE of INDIA : DECEMBER 2S, 1987/PAUSA 2 , 1889 


[Part II— 


■State-. West Bengal Industry: Coal Mines 

AWARD 

By Order No. 0/123/66-LRII dated 3rd February 1967, the Central Government 
referred for adjudication an industrial dispute between the employers m re.auon 
to the Ardhogram Khas Colliery, P.O. Ardhogram, Distt. Bankura, and their work¬ 
men in respect of the matters specified in the following schedule : 

“Whether alternative jobs were available on the closing of Ardhogram 
Khas Colliery on the 10th March, 1965? If so, whether the nor,-ab¬ 
sorption of the retrenched workers to the said jobs was justified? It 
not, to what relief are they entitled?" 

2. According to the case of the union, the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, Ramganj, 
the work in the mine of Ardhogram Kims Colliery was stopped by the order of 
an Inspector of Mines' with effect from fOth March, 1965. The stoppage was 
ordered because there was an explosion underground owing to inflammable gas 
Raving collected and caught lire on 8th Mdrch, 1965- When the work was stopped, 
195 workmen were working in the colliery; they reported for duty for some days 
regularly but their attendance was not recorded and they were not given any 
lay-off benefit. On 15th March, 1965 the management gave notice on all the 
workmen retrenching them or terminating their services. But about that time 
the management engaged two contractors for working a quarry situated close to 
the incline where work had been slopped, and the contractors were allowed to 
engage their own workman and none of the 195 retrenched workmen were emp¬ 
loyed in that job. Work in the incline was started again In the first or second 
week of May, 1965 and about 120 of the retrenched workmen were re-employed, 
after being given notice to report for duty, but 60 or 70 persons were not given 
employment even then. The union claims wages from 10th March 1965 to 12th 
May 1.065 for the 120 workmen who were re-employed when the working of 
the incline was started again in May, 1965, and full wages from 10th March 1965 
upto date for the GO or 70 workmen who were not re-employed on the reopening 
of work in the incline, 

3. The case was fixed for hearing on 27th September 1967 after waiting for 
some months for written statements; the union filed its written statement on 22nd 
September 1967 and the management did not file their written statement at all. 
The date of hearing was shifted from 27th September to 9th October 1967 at the 
prayer of the union, Thereafter a representative of the management appeared 
for further adjournment and the matter was adjourned to 16th November 1967 
for hearing. On 16th November 1967 the. representative of the management again 
filed an application for time, staling that as the mine wus closed the management 
had not been able to collect the necessary papers. Accordingly, the hearing was 
adjourned to 4th December 1967 with the warning that no more adjournment 
would be given in any circumstances. But on 4th December 1967 the representa¬ 
tive of the management again filed a petition for adjournment, and when that was 
rejected the management withdrew from the hearing. The tribunal has therefore 
been handicapped by not having direct evidence of the relevant facts for a proper 
decision of the reference. 

4. It should be mentioned that after the working of the mine had been re¬ 
started on the 10th or 12th of May, 1965 it was closed down again with effect from 
30th September, 1965 and the working of the colliery has not yet been resumed. 
A dispute over the closure of the colliery with effect from 30th September, 19fi5 
was referred to adjudication by a Government order dated 1st April 1066-LRII 
dated 6th July 1966, Reference Case No. 113 of 1966 being started thereon- An 
award was passed in that case on 2nd March 1967, Shri Robin Chatterjee, Vice- 
President of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha has produced a copy of that award and 
has referred to it. The dispute in the present case arose much earlier but the 
reference was made later; the reason is said, to be that the management gave an 
understanding that the dispute would be amicably settled and so delayed the 
conciliation proceedings. The union appears to have dropped the matter at one 
stage, for the failure report shows that the dispute was started afresh on a fresh 
complaint made by the Vice-President of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha dated 18th 
May 1966. 

5. It appears from the award of the Reference Case No. 113 of 1966 that the 
mine was a seasonal mine, work therein being stopped during the rainy season 
from 15th June to 30th September or 31st October each vear, and the workmen 
excepting some of the Supervisory staff and office staff' were appointed on a 
temporary' basis and discharged when the working of the mine was closed clown 



Sic. 3/ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


4777' 


but re-appointed with the opening of the next season if they presented themselves 
for work. In this case Shri Robin Chatterjee, Vice-President of the union is the 
only witness examined, and his statement that in 1965 the Mines Department gave 
permission to work the incline during the rainy season also, goes to show that 
in previous years the work in the incline was stopped during the rainy season. 
Shri Chatterjee said that in previous years, the quarry was worked in the rainy 
season, and 100—120 of the incline workmen were employed in the quarry. Thus 
he sought to claim continuous service. But in the comments of the Union sub¬ 
mitted by him to the Conciliation Officer (copy attached to the failure report) 
it is recited that “the workers came to know that the quarry which was suspended 
from its work for several years was going to be started with new man and con¬ 
tractors”. So there cou’d not have been any employment in the quarry during 
the rainy season for several years before 1965. In the notices of termination of 
service which were issued by the management on 15th March 1965, (collectively 
marked Ext. 2), it appears that the workmen were divided in two categories namely 
those who were purely temporary and had put in less than 3 months service, and 
those who had not completed one year’s service and who were offered one week’s 
wages in lieu of notice. In all these notices not one of the workers was recognised 
as a permanent workman. None of the workmen has appeared before the tribu¬ 
nal as a witness. Possibly the workmen no longer have any interest in the 
Reterence case. 

6 . Retrenchment as defined in clause oo of Sec. 2 of Industrial Disputes Act 
includes termination of service for any reason whatever otherwise than as punish¬ 
ment by way of disciplinary action or termination of service on the ground of 
continued ill health- Therefore even temporary workman whose service has been 
terminated may be said to be retrenched, and though not entitled to retrench¬ 
ment benefit under Sec. 25F of the Act, may claim re-employment under provi- 
sions of Sec. 25H of the Act. Trie question therefore is whether alternative jobs 
weie available when the incline of the Ardhogram Khas Colliery was closed down 
by the order of the Mines Inspector on 10th March, 1965. Shri Robin Chatter¬ 
jee has said that on the closure of the incline the management engaged two con¬ 
tractors, Milkhi Ram Pandit and Panchkari Chatterjee, to work a quarry situated 
near the incline and that these contractors engaged between them about 70 or 80 
men, but they were their own men and not the old employees of the mine who 
had been retrenched with effect from 10th March 1965. Shri Robin Chatterjee 
stated that contractors started work from 11th March, 1965. The documentary 
evidence produced in the case however does not support this statement, A 
memorandum dated 22nd March 1965 bearing tha thumb impressions of 50 to 60 
workmen was submitted through the union to the Conciliation Officer, Raniganj. 
A copy of the memorandum is Ext. 4- Therein there is no mention of any contrac¬ 
tors being employed to work In the quarry; the Conciliation Officer was being 
requested to see that the work of the mine was started as quickly as possible 
after rectification of the irregularities found by the Mines Inspector and to insist 
on payment of lay off compensation. Now if the workmen did not compete 12 
months of continuous service, they are not entitled to lay-off compensation, and 
as regards restarting of work in the mine, it is admitted that that was started in 
the first or second week of May, 1965 and that about 120 of the retrenched work¬ 
men were re-employed there. In letter Ext. 5 dated 26th April, 1965 written by 
the Vice-President. Shri Robin Chatterjee, to the Conciliation Officer, Raniganj, 
there is mention of engagement of one contractor by the management; and in the 
letter Ext. 5(a) dated 1st May 1965 from Shri Robin Chatterjee to the Con¬ 
ciliation Officer, there is reference to engagement of two contractors namely 
Milkhi Ram Pandit and Panchkari Chatterjee. The union has also produced a 
letter, Ext. 1A from the Conciliation Officer, Raniganj addressed to the Manager, 
Ardhogram Khas Colliery complaining that the management had engaged "two 
contractors and allowed them to engage their own labour instead of the retren¬ 
ched workmen; but this letter bears the date 5th May, 1965, and shortly there¬ 
after work in the incline was restarted and the workmen were given notice to 
report for duty; the notices which were given to the workmen have collectively 
been marked Ext. 6, and many of them bear the date 5th May 1965; some also bear 
an earlier date like 30th April 1965. Accordingly, I am unable to accept the 
statement of Shri Chatterjee that from 11th March, 1965 two contractors were 
engaged bv the management for working in the quarry. Even if it is accepted that 
about 1st of May. 1965 two contractors were engaged for work in the quarry 
it is clear that at about the same time the retrenched workmen were also notified 
to err? and report for duty. Therefore I cannot find that alternative jobs were 
available when the colliery was closed down on 10th March, 1965. The con¬ 
tractor? appear to have been engaged just before the working of the mine i.e., 
the incline was resumed and at that time the retrenched workmen were 
also given notice to rejoin their posts and it is admitted that 126 



4778 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


of them actually did so. As regards the remaining 60 or 70, if there was 
no work for them naturally the management could not re-employ them. 
There is no evidence that work in the quarry went on even after the working of 
the incline was resumed. Though the attitude of the management in the present 
case appears to have heen one of non-cooperation which is regrettable, it must be 
held that the union has not been able to prove its contention that the manage¬ 
ment deliberately avoided absorption of the retrenched workers when the colliery 
had to be closed under the order of the Mines Inspector with effect from 10th March, 
1965. 

7. My award therefore is that alternative jobs were not available when the 
Ardhogram Khas Colliery was closed down with effect from lOLh March. 1965 
until the incline was fit for reopening in the beginning of May, 1965 when 120 of 
tfce retrenched workmen were actually re-employed, and theieforc the question 
of non-absorption of the retrenched workmen does not arise. The workmen, 
therefore, are not entitled to any relief in this case. 


Dated, 4th December 1967. 


(Sd.) S. K Sen, 
Presiding Officer. 

[No. 6/123/G6-LR1I.] 


S.O. 4530.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 19471, the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers In 
rotation to the Pure Searsole Colliery, Post Office Searsolerajbari (Burdwan) 
and their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the 12th 
leeember, 1967- 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 27 of 1967 


Present : 

Employers in relation to the Pure Searsole Colliery. 

and 

Their Workmen. 

Parties: 

Shri S. K- Sen—Presiding Officer. 

Appearances: 

OH behalf of Employers:—Shri R. N. Choudhury. 

On behalf of Workmen:—Shri Robin Chatterjee, Vice-President, Colliery Maz- 
door Sabha. 


State: West Bengal. 


AWARD 


Industry: Coal Mines. 


By Order No. 6/l0 /6 7-LRn dated 6th April 1967, the Central Government 
jeferred for adjudication an industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
lb the Pure Searsole Colliery, P.O- Searsolerajbari (Burdwan), and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the following schedule. 


‘T. Whether the services of Shri Bholanath Banerjee were utilised bv 
the management of Pure Searsole Colliery as ah apprentice or mUn^hl? 
In either case, to what wages and allowances is he entitled and from 
what date? 


Whether the termination of services of the said workman with effect from 
entitled?” De ber ’ 1966 Was justlfled7 If not ’ to what relief is he 


2- Although both parties have appeared at the hearing, neither partv filed imr 
?^‘ te FW St r^ ment befo , re tribunal and the respective cases had to be gathered 
fallu re re P 01 't and the papers annexed therewith. According to the letter 
of Shri Robin Chatterjee, Vice-President of the Colliery MazdooTsabha 0 Raniganj^ 



Sec. 3{ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/P AUSA % 1889 


4779 


dated 29th November 1966 addressed to the A.L.C-, Central, Raniganj. by which 
inf f ls P u *- e concerning the termination ot service of Bholanath Banerjee was raised, 
Bholanath Banerjee was a mining apprentice. It was however stated that he was 
made to work as an underground munshi but he was not paid as a rrunshi or 
Assistant Sirdar, and his name was not entered in the pay sheet of the workmen, 
imd that the union raised a dispute about this before the A.L.C.. and thereupon 
the management out of grudge served one month's notice of termination oi service 
Bholanath Banerjee on 23rd November 1966 and his service was terminated 
with effect frorn 23rd December 1966, although apprentices junior to him were 
flowed to remain in service. The management’s case was that Bholanalh Banerjee 
had been taken as a mining apprentice on 21st February 1965 and that h e qualified 
as a snot firer and so the period of apprenticeship had come to an end and he was 
given formal notice of termination of apprenticeship; and that nothing illegal Was 
done by the management. 


3- At the hearing the management hag examined two witnesses and proved 
certain documents to prove their case. The union though it was granted one 
adjournment after the commencement of the hearing to enable it to piodu-'e the 
workman concerned, was not able to produce the workman; Shri Robin Chatterjee 
has submitted before the tribunal that though a letter was wiitten to him at his 
home address and also at his sister’s address- no response was made by the work¬ 
man concerned. No witness has been examined on behalf of the union- although 
Shri Chatterjee has cross-examined the witnesses for the management and argued 
the case for the union. Both the witnesses examined for the management denied 
that Bholanath Banerjee was made to work as a munshi. MW 2-Debi Prasad 
Hazra stated that at No. 3/4 incline where Bholanath Banerjee used to v.wrk as 
apprentice, the mining sirdar used to prepare the raising report and there was no 
assistant mining sirdar or munshi to do that work. From the evidence of MW 
1-Shri Charu Chandra Mukherjee, Headclerk, it appears that Bholanath Banenee 
when serving as a mining apprentice worked sometimes with the timber mistrfes 
sometimes with the mining sirdar and sometimes with the shot firer. It may be' 
that when he was working with the mining sirdar he was asked to prepare some 
raising reports* But that would not show that Bholanath Banerjee was regularly 
employed as an Assistant sirdar or pit munshi and made to write the daily raising 
reports. The evidence 6f both the witnesses for the management is that Bholanath 
Banerjee was taken as a mining apprentice on 25th February 1965, and after he 
had passed the shot firer’s certificate examination, the period of his apprenticeship 
was terminated with effect from 23rd December 1966 by service of a notice of 
which the office copy is Ext. B. Ext. B states that he had been given sufficient 
time to gam experience and to appear at the Statutory Examination of the Mines 
Department and that his apprenticeship would be terminated with effect from ^rd 
December 1966. The B form register for 1965 Ext. A, was produced to show’the 
date of commencement of the apprenticeship and the date of termination. The 
date ot commencement shows some overwriting in respect of digits fo*- the year- 
the original figures appear to be 63 and this has been altered to 65 by overwriting’ 
“appears that before the Conciliation Officer the union’s case was that in April 
1963 Bholanath Banerjee had prepared some raising reports showin" the names 
of Pick miners and the quantity of coal loaded by them. Regulation 18 of the'Coal 
Mines Regulation, 1957, provides that no person shall be admitted as a candidate 
b e * amm , a . tl0 T n for a. shot firer’s certificate unless the Boaid is satisfied that he 
£ as J* ad Poetical experience m a coal mine for a period of not less than 2 years 
K ^ Banerjee had really started apprenticeship on 21st February 1965 
? fv5L en aw ?y on leave from 12th June 1965 to 9th January 1966 r? "shown 

in the B fenm register, he could not possibly hive completed two years of tr^inirur 
and appeared for shot firer’s certificate examination by November. 1966. I ‘there ? 
f.^ r f ^mk that Bholanath Banerjee was really taken as a ruin in apprentice from 
21 st February 1963 and not from 21st February 1965. But whatever P the Iprfe+v, n f 

•Collierv°afte at 'h B v. 0l a nath Ba ” er i ee P ut in as’an apprentice at the Pure Searsole 
Colliery after he had appeared at the shot firer’s certificate examination and i hi is 
completed his period of training, if the colliery management did not ■ S 

the post for which he had qualified, they werenot bounT^o retain him In Tuch 
St f nC6S - the ? otlce terminating his apprenticeship cannot amount to termin- 
TntWrEfi Z f 0f a Immanent workman. The model Standing Orders under the 
tie?;.?? Employment _ (Standing Orders) Central, Rules 1946 define an acoren- 
a aS i? Jf 1 . w .k° ls pai< * an allowance during the period of his 
Although the definition of a workman under the Industrial Disnutes Ant inni.Vm, 

ls P a r ^arh e er t and d no? iti s° n mUSt be u t nders , tood object to the status of an apprentice 
as a learner and not as a permanent workman. MW 1 has ‘dafpd that 

a^lifv a n s ln a g sh?? r fi entiCeS ^ taken at the C0lU ™ thaf a person who° wants to ' 

qualify as a shot firer, or surveyor or second class manager applies for being taken 



4780 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part li¬ 


as an apprentice and if the manager is satisfied that he is a suitable person and. 
the owner gives his approval, then the person is taken as an apprentice; and that 
the length of the term depends on the job for which the candidate wants to qualify- 
MW 1 also has stated that there were two apprentices who were junior to Bholanath 
Banerjee, namely Bajrang Lai Sharma and Anadi Kr. Lhebar. This also appears 
from the register of wages of mining apprentices, Ext. C. In view of the purpose 
for which apprentices are taken, there is no substance in the contention of Shri 
Chatterjee that although junior apprentices were retained, Bholanath Banerjee’s 
service as an apprentice was terminated wrongfully. It is not a case of retrench¬ 
ment for a category of permanent workman, in which case the junior most workman 
has to he retrenched on the principle of ‘last come first go’- That principle clearly 
does not apply to apprentices, because those who come first will naturally com¬ 
plete the period of training as apprentice first and will be the first to go. Shri. 
Chatterjee has next referred to the definition of retrenchment in clause 00 of 
Section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, and has urged that the termination of 
service of an apprentice amounts to retrenchment and therefore the retrenchment 
without payment of retrenchment compensation under Section 25F of the Act was 
bad. I have already mentioned however that an apprentice is only a learner and 
cannot claim to be a permanent workman and when his apprenticeship is termina¬ 
ted. after he has qualified for the post for which he was under training, it cannot 
be said that the termination of the apprenticeship is termination of service and 
amounts to retrenchment. This was also the view taken by the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal in the case, 1956 LLJ 599 [Balkrishna Ganpat V. Ruston & Hornsby 
(India) Ltd., Bombay], The LAT negatived the claim that the apprentice should 
get compensation under Section 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act on the ground 
that termination of service by expiry of the period stipulated under the express 
or implied condition of service does not amount to retrenchment. In the present 
case Shri Chatterjee pointed out that no letter of appointment setting out the terms 
of employment as an apprentice was issued to Bholanath Banerjee. as admitted 
by MW 1- But even if such letter of appointment containing the terms of appren¬ 
ticeship was not issued, it is an implied term ox apprenticeship that the apprentice 
will be or. training for the job that he wishes to learn for an agreed period or for 
so long as he has not qualified for the job. Therefore when at the end of that 
period or after the apprentice has completed his training the apprenticeship is 
terminated._ it does not amount to termination of service within the meaning' of 
clause 0® of Section 2 of the Act and the apprentice is not entitled to any retrench¬ 
ment compensation. Shri Chatterjee also argued that even though for a time 
Bhnl&npth Banerjee was made to work as a defacio munshi and submit the daily 
raising report of the pick miners he was not paid the wages of a pit munshi but 
only the allowance as apprentice. But as already pointed out in the definition of 
an apprentice under Model Standing Orders an apprentice is a learner who is paid 
a certain allowance and he cannot claim a scale of wages equal to the work that 
he might do from time to time in the course of his training. 

A- Accordingly my award is as follows;— 

1. Shri Bholanath Banerjee worked at Pure Searsole Colliery as a Mining 

apprentice, and even if he worked for a time as a defacto munshi he 
is not entitled to the wages of a munshi but to the allowance as 
apprentice which was paid to him by the management. 

2. The so-called termination of service of Bholanath Banerjee with effect 

from 23rd December, 1966 amounted really to the termination of the 
apprenticeship after Bholanath Banerjee had qualified for the job 
which he had become apprentice, and therefore such termination 
was justified and Bholanath Banerjee is not entitled to any relief. 

Sd./- S- K. Sen, 
Presiding Officer. 

Dated. 5th December 1967. 

[No. 6/10/67-LSWI.l 


New Delhi, the 16th December 1967 

S.O, 4531.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 'l<w 7L the Centra) Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the industrial Tribunal. Calcutta in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Sarpi Kajora Colliery. Post Office Ukhra, Eurdwan and their 
workmen which was received bv the Central Government on the 13th December, 
1967. 



Ski. 3(H)) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 47^1 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 78 of 1967 

Parties ; 

Employers in relation to the Sarpi Kajora Colliery, 

AND 

Their Workmen. 

Present: 

Shri 8- Iv. Sen—Presiding Oiflcer. 

Appearances : 

Dv oehalf of Employers —Shri K. r. Mukheijee, Bar-at-I.aw. 

On. behalf of Workmen — 

State: West Bengal. Industry: Coal Mines. 


AWARD 

By Order No. 6/122/66-LRII, dated 21st October, 1967, the Central Government 
referred for adjudication an industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Sarpi Kajora ColJierj, P.O. Ukhra, Burdwan and their workmen, in respect 
<•? the matters specified in tile following schedule: 

“Whether the management of Sarpi Kajora Colliery was justified in dis¬ 
missing the following workmen with effect from the dates shown against, 
them 

( 1 ) Shri Srinarayan Tiwarl, Machine Driver—7th April, 1966- 

(2) Shri Lalai Fandey, Machine Mazdoor—7th April, 1966. 

(3) Shri Kailash Ram, Surface Trammer—7th April, 1966. 

If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled?” 

2- According to the case of the management, the three workmen concerned, 
namely Srinarayan Tlwari, Machine Driver, Lalai Pandey, Machine Mazdoor and 
Kailash Ram, Surface Trammer, were absent from their work without previous 
leave for more than 10 days and accordingly they were charge-sheeted and suspended 
and were dismissed alter enquiry. According to the union, no proper enquiry 
was held and the order of dismissal was therefore bad. The management pro¬ 
duced the three workmen concerned and each of them has stated on oath that he 
has no longer any dispute with the management and does not want to proceed 
with the reference case In connection with his dismissal by the management of 
Sarpi Kajora Colliery. The union has not put in appearance before the Tribunal 
and has not filed written statement. The workmen have stated that they have 
no connection with the union, particularly after the death of Keshab Banerjee 
who used to take leading part in organising the Colliery Mazdoor Union. The 
management apparently has won over the three workmen concerned by making 
some settlement with them. They have all signed a joint petition with the Agent 
nl the Sarpi Kajora Colliery Shri R. C- Thacker, that they have no dispute with 
their former employer and that a no dispute award be made in the case. 

Accordingly 1 find that no dispute now exists over the dismissal of three 
workmen, Shri Srinarayan Tiwari, Shri Lalai Pandey and Shri Kailash Ram, 

(Sd-) S, K. Sen. 

IJated, 8 rh December, 1907. Presiding Officer- 

[No. 6/122/60-LRII1 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 4th December 1967 

S.O. 4533,—Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indusfrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Jote Dhemo Colliery, Post 
Office Ukhra, Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters specified In 
lire Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 




4782 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Pari II- 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the management of Jole Dhemo Colliery was justified in not allow¬ 
ing Shri Hafiz Mia, Line Mistry, to resume duty on the 2nd February, 
1967 after the re-opening of the colliery on the 22nd November 1966? 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitled? 


[No. 6/56/67-LRIT.] 


S.O. 4533.—Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Assam Railways and Trad¬ 
ing Company Limited, Margherita, Assam and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub¬ 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus¬ 
trial Tribunal Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


Schedule 

Whether the management of Messrs Assam Railways and Trading Company 
Limited, Post Office Margheritta. Assam, was justified in not supply¬ 
ing at concessional rates the full quantum of rice and atta to the 
workmen in their four Collieries namely, Baragolai, Tipong, Ledo and 
Namdang. in terms of the award of the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad- in Reference No- 44 of 1960, published with the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour 
and Employment No. S.O 2955, dated the 7th December. 1961 during 
the weeks commencing on 27th September 1965, 4th Oriober 1965. 
11th October 1965. 18th October 1965. 25+h October 1965, 1st November 

1965, 8th November 1965. 15th November 1965, 22nd November 1965- 
29th November 1965, 6th Decemb n r 1965. 13th December 1965, 20th 
December 1965, 27th December 1965, 3rd January 1966, 10th January 
i n ?6. 17th Jonuw 196fi 24th January lopfi. 31st Janne— ’ rc ’ r ' 7th 
February 1966. 14th February 1966, 2ist February 1966. 21st March 

1966, 9th May 1966. 16th May 1966. 23rd May 1966, 11th Jul- 1966. 
12th September 1966. 19th September 1066. -10th October 1906, 31st 
October 19 R 6. 14th November I960 l?th December 1966 and Ifith 
December 1966?. If not, to what relief are the workmen en'ttwt 

[No. 1/44/67-LRII.] 


S.O. 4534.—Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the emnlovers in re’ation to the New Golukdih Colliery, 
Post Offine Jharia. District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matter 
specified in the Schedu’e hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 


Now, fha-efore, in exercise of the Powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. HM 7 0 4 0 f 1047 ), the Central 

h 6 K e 5 y ref !F® ^ fV| " •'"-di-atton to the Industrial 

tribunal. Dhanbad, constituted under section 7 A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the action of the management of the New Golukdih Co'U°rv. Post 
?+T Ce J JharlS ^, Di , s+rl l ct DhRr|hc >d in stonmne Rhri Ram Rafcn Pharma. 
Attendance Clerk, f-om work wit 1 ’ effect from the 21st June 1867 
was justified? If not to what relief is the workman entitled?' 


[No. 2(125) '67-LR-in 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, J967/PAUSA 2, 1889 4783 


New Delhi, the 7th December 1967 

S.O. 4535.—Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Lower Kenda Colliery, Post 
Office Kajoragram, District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And Whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub¬ 
section (11 of section 10 of toe- Industrial DispuO'-s Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus¬ 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A ox the said Act. 


Schedule 

Whether the management cf Lower Kenda Colliery Post Office Kajoru- 
grari, District Burdwan of Messrs. Kh-is Kenua Colliery (Private) 
Limited was justified in terminating the services of Shri Pankaj 
Ranjan Moitra, Coal Cutting Machine Supervisor, with effect from 
the 25th May, 1967? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled? 

[No. 6/74/67-LRII.] 


'v»ir Dci’r. the 13th Decc nter 1967 

S.O. 4536.—Whereas an industrial di'.mt exists between employers in relation 
to the South Jhagrakhand Colliery. Post Office South Jhagrakhand Colliery, District 
Surguja. Madhya Pradesh and their workmen represented by the Madhya Pradesh 
Gplliery Workers. Federation, Post Office South Jhagrakhand Colliery District 
Surguja, Madhya Pradesh; 

And whereas- the said employers and the workmen have, by a written agree¬ 
ment, in pursuance of tut provisions of sub-secticn (1) of section 10-A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), referred the said dispute to arbitration 
by the person specified therein, and a copy of the said arbitration agreement has 
been forwarded to the Central Government; 

Now, therelore, in pu.suance of the provisions of sub-section (3) of section IbA 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947). the Central Government hereby 
publishes the said arbitration agreement, which was received bv it on the 5th 
December. 1967. 


AGREEMENT 

Arbitration Agreement under section 10,4 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
between the management of South Jhagrakhand Collier a of M/s■ Jhagrakhand 
Collieries (P) Ltd- and their workmen r>.presented by the M-P. Colliery Workers 7 
* Federation• 

Place: South Jhagrakhand Colliery. Date: 26 th November, 1967. 

Parties : 

Representing Employers: . . Sri B. C. Mukheriee, Manager, South Jhagra¬ 
khand Colliery P-O. South Jhagrakhand 
Colliery, District Surguja, M-P. 

Representing Workmen-. .. Sri G. P. Sharma. Secretary, M-P. Colliery 

Workers’ Federation P.O. South Jhagrakhand 
Colliery. District Surguja, M.P. 

It is hereby agreed bet wen the parries to refer the following industrial dispute 
to the arbitration of Sri P. C. Rai, Regional Labour Commissioner (Cl, Jabalpur 

(i) Specific matters in dispute :— 

“Having regard to the terms of settlement dated 16th January, 1965 read 
with minutes of discussion of same date over a charter of 40 demands, 
whether it is obligatory on the part of the management to supply woollen 
jerseys (Pull-over) to the Surface Trammers of South Jhagrakhand Colliery? 
If so, from what date? 

(ii) Details of the parties to the dispute including the name and address of 
establishment or undertaking involved : 

(1) Manager, South Jhagrakhand Collieries of M/s. Jhagrakhand Collieries 
(P) Ltd. P.O. South Jhagrakhand Colliery, Distt. Surguja, M.P. 



4784 the GAZETTE OF INDIA. DECEMBER 2”>. 1967/PA l SA 2. 1880 


[Part IT- 


(2) The Secretary, M.P- Colliery Workers' Federation, South Jhagrakhand 
Colliery, P.O. South Jhagrakhand Colliery. Distt. Surguja, M.P. 

(iii) Name of the Union, if any, representing the workmen in question : 

The M.P. Colliery Workers' Federation, Chirimiri, District Surgujo. M-P- 
Through its Secretary at South Jhagrakhand Colliery. 

(iv) Total No- of workmen employed in the urviettaking affected :— 

1300. 

(v) Estimated No, of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the dispute : 
52 

We further agree that the decision ot the arbi-valor shall be binding on us 

The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of 3 months from date 
or within such, further time as is extended by mutual agreement between us in 
writing. In case the award is not made within the period abovementioned, the refer¬ 
ence to arbitrator shad stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free to 
negotiate for fresh arbitration. 

Representing Em? 1 oy-yy : Representing Workmen: 

(Sd-) B. C- Muxherji, (Sd.) G. P. Sharma, 

Witnesses :— 

1- (Sd ) ThanwaRpas P. K, 

2. (Sd. 1 G- R. Ehwar:. 

South Jhagrakhand Colliery. 

26th November, 1967. 

LNo. .V44/67-LRII.'] 
BALWANT SINGH. Under Secy. 


(Department c> f Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 6th December 1967 

S.O. 4537.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
5 of the Mines Act, 1951 (35 of 1952), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry' of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 531 dated the 2nd March, 1961, 
namely:— 

In the said notification, the following entry shall be omitted, namely:— 

“(3) Shri I. J. Badhwar’’. 

[No. 3/69/67-MI.> 


New Delh'. ile 1 14th December 1907 

S.O. 453S,—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
5 cf the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952). the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour and Empl<.yr.:e.it No. S.O. 531 dated the 2nd March, 1961, 
namely: — 

In the said notification, the following entry shall he omitted, namely:— 
"(87) Shri O- P Asija.” 


[Mo. 3/96/67-MJ.] 
J. i). TEWARI, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1967 

S.O. 4539.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 




Src. 3(ii)J l HE GA/.E11E Ol INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 19G7/PAUSA 2, 1889 4785 


Arbitrator in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to Mercantile 
Bank Limited, Delhi and their workmen represented by the Delhi State Bank 
Employees’ Federation, Delhi which was received by the Government on the 4th 
December. 1967 

BEFORE SHRI S. K. GOKHALE, REGIONAL, LABOUR COMMISSIONER 
(CENTRAL) (TRAINING). NEW DELHI AND ARBITRATOR 

In the matter of reference by Agreement dated 8th August, 1967 under section 
10A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947. 

Between 

The management of Mercantile Bank Ltd-. Delhi. 

AND 

Their workmen as represented by the Delhi State Bank Employees’ Federation, 
Delhi- 

Appearances : 

Representing the Management: 

1. Mr. D- Macfarlane- Accountant. Mercantile Bank Ltd., New Delhi. 

2. Mr. P. Mandal, Legal Adviser, Mercantile Bank Ltd., New Delhi. 

Representing the Federation: 

1. Mr. P- L Syal, President, Delhi State Bank Employees’ Federation, 710, 

Ballimaran, Deihi- 

2. Shri R- B. L. iViathur, Secretary, Mercantile Bank Employees’ Federation, 

Delhi. 

3. Shri J. N. Saxena- Assistant Secretary, Mercantile Bank Employees’ Fede 

ration, Delhi 


AWARD 

The Delhi State Bank Employees' Federation raised an Industrial dispute over 
the payment of amount payable under the bank’s circular dated 18th October 
1960 to Shri Autar Krishau for passing Part I of the Indian Institute ot Bankers’ 
Examination held in April, 1966 before the Conciliation Officer, Delhi. Subse¬ 
quently, the employers and workmen, agreed to reier tne enpute tor my arbitra¬ 
tion under sub-section (I) 01 section 10A of Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947) and accordingly, the Government of India, Ministry 01 Laoour, Employment 
and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) issued an Order 
No. 51/57/67-LK-III dated the 25tn August- 1967 giving necessaiy details of the 
agreement and the specific matter in dispute for my arbit.ation. 

The specific issue tramed for my determination is as under:— 

“Whether honorarium of £50 payable under the Bank’s circular dated 18th 
October 1960 to Shri Autar Krishan for passing Part I of the Indian 
Institute of Bankers’ Examination Held in Ap.ii, 1966 should be con¬ 
verted into Rupees at the official rate of exchange p.evaiiing upto 
5th June 1966 or the rate prevailing from 6th June 1966”. 

The President, Delhi State Bank Employees’ Federation was requested to for¬ 
ward a written statement in regard to the specific matter in dispu.e in support 
of their stand to me on or before 25th September 1967 with a further request that 
a copy of the aforesaid statement be sent simultaneously to trie Management of 
the Mercantile Bank. The Management of the Mercantile Bank in another letter 
were requested to forward their comments by 30th September, 1967 to me with a 
copy of their comments to the Federation. In my letter No. SXG/Arb-MBEU/67 
dated the 16th September, 1967 I also intimated the parties that the arbitration 
proceedings will be held in my office at 11.00 a.m. on Wednesday, the 4th Octooer 
1967. The Federation, however, requested for adjournment and requested for 
a copy of the letter, earlier addressed to them. The Management subsequently 
requested for an adjournment as they had to refer the matter o their Gene al 
Manager in India, headquartered in Calcutta for advice. Acceding to the request 
of the parties, the proceedings were fixed on the 23rd November, 1967 at 11.00 a.m. 
but again the parties jointly requested for postponement of t v ° ’-paring undl 
Wednesday, the 29th November, 1967- The parties were finally informed that 
they should appear positively on Wednesday, the 29th November, 1967, and it 



4786 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


would not be possible to grant any further adjournment in the matter- Accord¬ 
ingly, the parties appeared on the last scheduled date to present their cases before 
me. 


During the proceedings, the arguments placed by the parties were briefly as 
under:— 


The Delhi State Bank Employees’ Federation in support of their stand among 
other things stated that:— 

1. under its notice dated 18th October 1960 [copy enclosed and marked 

Annexure (A)], the Mercantile Bank Ltd., prescribed the honoraria, 
for passing Part I and Part II of CAIIB (Indian Institute of Bankers 
Examination) at the following rates:— 

For passing Part I—The equivalent of £50. 

For passing Part II—The equivalent of £100. 

2. That Shri Autar Krishan, an employee of Merchantile Bank Ltd., New 

Delhi branch passed Part I of CAJIB examination and received the 
result sheet on 1 st June 1966. He showed the said result sheet to 
the Accountant of the Bank and demanded payment of £50 or its 
payment at par rate in Indian Currency. The Accountant replied 
that the payment could only be made if Shri Autar Krishan produced 
the certificate for passing Part I of CAIIB examination. 

3- That on 6th .Tune 1966 the Indian rupee was devalued 

4- That Shrt Autar Krishan received the certificate for passing Part I of 

CAIIB on 8th June 1966 and produced the same to the Bank on the 
same day and requested for payment of £50 or payment at par rate 
in Indian Currency. 

5- That prior to devaluation the par rate of £50 was Rs. 670 but after devalua¬ 

tion it became Rs. 1.050- 


6 . That the Bank asked Shri Au f ar Krishan to receive the pre-devaluation 
amount, Rs. 670 upon which Shri Autar Krishan told the manage- 
ment either to pay him £50 or to make payment at par rate, i.e., 
Rs. I,0a0. The Bank refused to do the needlul. 


7- That the matter was taken up by the- Union with the Assistant Labour 
Commissioner who could not succeed in bringing about a settlement 
and the matter was thus agreed to be referred for arbitration. 

8 . That Shri Aular Krishan is entitled to £50 or payment at par rate i.e.. 
Rs. 1,050 the rate: applicable on the date the certificate was handeci 
over to the Bank, for having passed Part I of CAIIB. 


While basing their case on the points referred to above, the representative of 
the Federation also said that according t 0 their own circular the management had 
a liability to pay the employee. The management themselves laid down a certain 
condition, which the workman fulfilled at the earliest opportunity and then 
demanded the equivalent of Ear, as obtained on 8th June 1966. Since it was at 
the instance of the management, i: is only right that the management should 
Shri Autar K-ishau, £50 at the r.ew rale and not what it would accrue prior to 
6 th June 1966 The representative of the Federation also said that the other 

ml W n° m ad P assed the Exam, were given the payment on the 

1st ot June itself without laying down any such condition and the unio^ is not 

prMr lg to U 6th h of Junflgse^ 6 d£ ‘ tC ° f dema?d and acee P tanc e by the bank was 


The management. 


in support of their stand stated as under:- 


r a rrn While , the quantum of the honoraria for passing Part I and Part II of the 

its g"£g 

ParTand^TmO^for the &conrTpaH. ** ^ Sh ° Uld bc Rs ' 670 for tke Firs * 

n „ Z . rhe Bank desires to add that for the purpose of benefit arising out of the 
passing of Part I and Part If of the CAIIB examinations the relevant date is the 
date of the result and that the same should be taken into account both for the 
purpose o, granting the increment and/or paying special allowance for the nune 
offered by'‘ the B^k"^ 6 35 ako ^ Paying its Sh honoiaria 



Sec, 3(ii)j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


3. The Bank wishes to submit that the devaluation of the Indian rupee which 
took place on 6th June, 1966, is neither relevant nor material for payment of the 
honoraria claimed by Shri Autar Krishan which became due to him on 1st June, 
1966. 


4. The Bank, however, desires to add that the date of the result of the CAIIB 
Examination being the material date both for the purpose of granting of incre¬ 
ments/special allowance under the Bipartite Settlement and for payment of the 
ex-gratia honoraria offered by the Bank, Shri Autar Krishan’s demands that he 
shuold be paid either £50 in English currency or Rs. 1.050 in Indian currency is 
untenable and unjustified. 

5- They further stated that Shri Autar Krishan is entitled to only Rs. 670 as 
ex-gratia honorarium for passing Part I of the CAIIB Examination and the Bank 
is ready and willing to pay the same to him. 

During the course of proceedings I had requested the parties to produce the 
mark sheet received by Shri Autar Krishan and also the certificate issued in 
favour of Shri Autar Krishan by the Indian Institute of Bankers regarding 
completion of his part I of the examination. A copy each of the aforesaid docu¬ 
ment is at annexures ‘B’ and ‘C”. Shri Autar Krishan had produced only the 
mark sheet earlier and the management desired that he should provide further 
evidence to establish that he has completed Part I of the Associate examination of 
the Institute. Accordingly Shri Autar Krishan produced on 8th June, 1966 the 
certificate issued by the Institute and the management agreed to pay ' the hono¬ 
raria. equivalent of £50 for Part I- 


Since Shri Autar Krishan could procure his certificate only on the 8th of June, 
1966 and presented it to the management, on that day the Federation had demand¬ 
ed that the maangement should nay Shri Autar Krishan, rupees 1050, instead 
of the pre-devaluation amount that is Rs. 670. Apparently the Federation is 
laying too much stress on the date of production of evidence in support of the 
completion of Part I of the Associate Examination by Shri Autar Krishan and not 
the purpose or the fact for which the management is bound to pay honorariam, as 
per their notice issued on 18th October 1960. The Federation no doubt argued 
their case very well stressing the factor of liability created by a condition laid 
down by the management on 1st June, 1966 which was fuddled by the employee 
on 8th June 1966 and also suggested that the management have not followed the 
practice of accepting the mark sheet produced by the employee as in the past. 
The management according to them, therefore, should pay the honorarium in 
terms of the value of pound as obtained on 8th June 1966 and not on 1st June. 
1966 


The management, arguing in support of their case had rightly stated that the 
date of devaluation is neither material nor relevant in this case. It will be seen 
from the certificate issued by the Indian Institute pi Bankers that Shri Autar 
Krishan having been examined by appropriate examiners and having been iouna 
bv their duly qualified examiners, was declared to have completed Part I ot the 
Associate Examination of that Institute on 30th May, 1966 and as such the amount 
due either in the form of increment and or honorarium accrued on the 30th of 
May, 1966 and thus the amount, namely. Rs- 670 I feel was quite appropriate 


In support of their case, the representative of the management quoted English 
Law defining conversion of foreign currency into English currency. He quoted 
from G. C. Cheshire’s book on ‘Private International Law’ where it. has dealt with 
such issues ’rising from conversion of foreign currency and stated that: 

‘ther.-. was formerly a controversy whether the rate of exchange prevailing 
at the date "of the wrong or at the date of the judgment must be 
followed in making this conversion from foreign to English Currency 
The date chosen may be of great importance to the oartics in view 
of the violent fluctuations of the rate of exchange that not infreouent- 
ly occur in the modern world. It is now settled that the relevant 
date is the date of the wrong-’ 


The representative of the management also quoted from Indian Law regarding 
Rate of Conversion. He referred to a case, namely. Abdul Rabaman. vs. MP. 
Kesavan 'AIR. 1958) (Kerala—Page-51), wherein the question of rate of conver¬ 
sion was discussed. It was argued that Indian Court cannot give judgment for 
the payment of an amount in foreign currency, and for the purpose of litigation 
in India, a debt expressed in a foreign currency must be converted into Indian 
Rupees with reference to the rate of exchange prevailing on the day when the debt 



4788 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


was payable- In this case, the amount was payable on the 30th of May. 1987 and 
it is only right and proper that the amount to be paid, should be Rs. 670 and not 
Rs. 1,050, as requested by the Federation. 

It is difficult to agree with the elaim of the Federation as the sanctity here i? 
more to the date of completing the Part I of Associate Examination and not the 
date on which Shri Autar Krishan could produce sufficient evidence about his 
having done so. I, therefore, agree with the stand taken by the management. 
During the discussion, however, I was informed that in all five Officers completed 
the Part I/II of the Associate Examination on the 30th May, 1966 and except Shri 
Autar Krishan others were given increment/increments due to them, w-e.f. 1st 
May, 1066. Shri Autar Krishan was, it was understood given an increment from 
1st of June, 1966. The management, however, agreed to give the increment to 
Shri Autar Krishan also from 1st May, 1966. I appreciate the gesture of the 
management which would also help to bring in certain amount of uniformity in 
the grant of Increments to all their employees completing different parts on the 
same date last year, 

Having, therefore, carefully considered the facts of the case and the evidence, 
documents and other materials placed before me by the parties and having con¬ 
sidered, the argument during the hearing of the case on 29th November, 1967, I 
award as under:— 

"The honorarlam of £50 payable under the Bank circular dated the IRth 
October, 1900 to Shri Autar Krishan for passing Part I of the Indian 
Institute of Bankers Examination, held in April, 1966, should be con¬ 
verted into rupees at the official rate of exchange prevailing upto 
5th June, 1966”. 


I take this opportunity to express my thanks to both the parties for their co¬ 
operation during the course of hearing. 


(Sd) S. K- Gokhalk, 

Regional Labour Commissioner (C) and Arbitrator- 


Amnexure ‘A’ 

MERCANTILE BANK LIMITED CHANDNI CHOWK, P.B. NO. 1005, DELHI-6 


Notice 

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF BANKERS’ EXAMINATIONS 

We have been advised by Head Office that the scale of honorariums previously 
authorised to be paid to members of our staff has now been cancelled- 

In its place, the following increased honorariums will be paid to all successful 
candidates:— 

For passing Part I—the equivalent of £50- 

For passing Part II—the equivalent of £100. 

Candidates must in future pay the cost of their own books and tuition fees 

The effective date for these new arrangements is the 14th October, 1960 and 
no retrospective claims can be considered. 

(Sd.) F. A. Fitzpatrick, Agent- 

Delhi; 


18th October 1960. 



Sic. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, I967/PAUSA 2, 1889 4789 


Anne-;;;he B’ 

THE INDIAN INSTITUTE OF BANKERS 

STATE BANK OF INDIA BUILDING Tele.No. 25832!* 

SECOND FLOOR, APPOLO STREET 
TORT, BOMBAY. 

Dated 30th May, 1006. 
To 

K-1438 

Shrl Autar Krishan, 

Mercantile Bank Ltd., 

‘E’ Connaught Place, 

New Delhi. 


ASSOCIATE EXAMINATION, 1066 

The Candidate is advised that the result of his Examination is as hereunder;— 
PARTI 

Practice and Law of Banking 
Economics 

English Composition 

Book-keeping and Accounts 

Commercial Geography * PASS 

(FA) indicates failure within l/5th of the Pass Standard. 

(E-B) indicates failure by more than l/5th below the Pass Standard- 

(3d.) Secretary. 


Annexure ‘C* 

THE INDIAN INSTITUTE OF BANKERS 
STATE BANK OF INDIA BUILDING 
SECOND FLOOR, APOLO STREET 
FORT, BOMBAY. 


K-1438 


MEMORANDUM 
ASSOCIATE EXAMINATION 

Part I 

Be it known to all concerned that Shri Autar Krishan having been examined 
by appropriate Examiners and he having been found by them duly qualified in 
the subjects mentioned below, Is declared to have now'completed Part I of the 
Associate Examination of this Institute- 

1. Practice and Law of Banking. 

2- Economics. 

3. English Composition. 

4. Book-keeping and Accounts. 

5. Commercial Geography. 


Dated: 30th May, 1966. 


(Sd.) Secretary. 


[No. F. 51/57/07 LHIII.] 
New Dtlhi, the 13 th December 1967 

S.O. 4540.-— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Commissions 
of Inquiry Act, 1952 (60 of 1952), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment to the notification of the Government of India in the 



4790 TH£ GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O- 2286, dated the 4th July, 1967, namely :— 

In the said Notification, in the second paragraph, for the words 

“Within a period of six months from the date of the publication this Notifi¬ 
cation in the Official Gazette ’*— 

the words and figures 

’before the First June, IS fid” 
shad be substituted. 

[No. 17/10/67-LRIV.] 


New Delhi, the 14 th December 1967 

S-O. 4541-—Whereas the Central Government having been satisfied that the 
public interest so required had, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-clause (vi) 
of clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) declared 
by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation No. S.O. 1S90, dated the 5th June, 1967, the 
banking 'ndU'L-y carried on by a banking company as defined in clause (bb) of 
section 2 of die said Act, to be a public utility service for the purposes of the 
said Act, for a period of six months from the 29th June, 1967; 

And whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that public interest 
requires the extension of the said period by a further period of six months; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub- 
eiause >„vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby declares the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of die said Act for a further period of six months 
from ihe 29th December, 1967. 

[No. F.l/106/67-LRI.j 

S-O. 4542.—In pursuance o: section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal Jabalpur in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Punjab National Bank Limited, Daltonganj and their workmen 
which was received by the Central Government on the 11th December, 1967. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIEUNAL-CUM- 
LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 

Dated November 30, 1967 

P'Iese.tVt: 

Stm G. C. Agarwala—Presiding Officer. 

Ref. Case No. CG1T/L C(R ) (1 14)/67 (Jab alpur Tribunal 
Ref. Case No. 41 of 1965 (Jabalpur Tribunal) 

Parties 

E.-rpmvers in relation to— 

Punjab National Bank Limited, Daltonganj. (Biharl 

Versus 

Their workmen, represented through The General Secretary, All India 
Punjab National Bank Employees Association. 

A ’■•PL veances: 

F'ir tin 1 Employer —Shri A. Roy Cbowdhry. LabourOfficer, P.N Bank 
Calcutta, 

Fr•• workmen —Shri C L. Bharatdwaj, General Secretary of All India 
Punjab National Bank Employees Association. 

In'jV'TRv; Bank Distt: Daltonganj (Bihar). 

AWARD 

By Notification No. 51(85)/64-LFIV dated 19th March. 1965, the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment), 
Government of India, referred an industrial dispute, as stated in the schedule to 
the order of reference, to Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, from 




m:c. 3(h)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


4791 


where the case was transferred to this Tuaunal by Notification No. 8/25/67-LRII 
dated 25th April 1967: 


Matter of Dispute 

Whether having regard to the duties performed during the period from 4th 
July, 1960, to the 31st August, 1964, Shri Raj Mani Dubey is entitled 
to be designated as Assistant Cashier and to the payment of clerical 
scale of pay and special allowance prescribed for Assistant Cashiers 
m the Award dated the 7th June, 1962 of the National industrial 
Tribunal (Bank Disputes), Bombay published with the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No- S O- 2028, dated the 13th June, 1962? If not, to what other relief is 
the workman entitled? 

2. Both parties filed their statements of claim before the Dhanbad Tribunal. 
On the first date of hearing which was 26th May 1867 at Allahabad the Bank filed 
a rejoinder and preliminary earing was rendered. On the next date of hearing 
which was 3rd October 1967 at Allahabad, an application of the Union dated 11th 
February 1967 was considered for production of certain documents by the Bank. 
After hearing both sides the Bank was directed to file some of the papers and 
for others it was directed that the Bank shaE made the records available for 
inspection to Union representative and a joint statement may be filed in respect 
of relevant matters so that it may not be necessary to producee the records in the 
case. Such a joint statement was prepared and filed on the next date and shall 
be referred as Ex. I. Evidence in the case then commenced on 30th October 1967 
when workmen’s four witnesses were examined. The evidence for the Bank was 
recorded on the following date and the Bank examined two witnesses- Arguments 
were Thereafter heard. The party desired to submit a summary of their agur- 
ments in writing which they have done and are part of the record. 

3. Che workman concerned, Rajmani Dubey, was appointed as a Cash Peon on 
in the Dallonganj Branch of the Bank on 3rd November 1958 by means of an 
appointment letter (Ex. E/14) filed by the Bank and Ex. W/l filed by the work¬ 
man concerned. There is some difference between the two as in Ex. W./1 be¬ 
sides the salary of Rs- 34, it is stated that he would be paid Rs- 5 as special 
allowance and also dearness allowance, a fact which is not found entered in the 
Bank’s copy of the appointment letter. The fact is, however, immaterial as 
admittedly he has been given the special allowance of Rs. 5 p.m. When he 
joined as a Cash Peon the Cash Department had a Head Cashier. Sri Ilarikesh 
Dubey (E.W.t) and an Assistant Cashier. Sri Iswari Prasad (W.W2). Sri Ishwari 
Prasad, the Assistant Cashier, was transferred to Jahanabad Branch on 4th July 
1960 and it is an admitted position that no Assistant Cashier as such was appointed 
in his place by the Bank. The case for the workman is that he was required to 
render the duties of an Assistant Cashier after transfer of Sri Ishwari Prasad 
which he continued to render till June. 1964. He had been rendering all the 
duties which Sri Ishwari Prasad was doing and therefore became entitled to be 
promoted and to the remuneration of Assistant Cashier as prescribed by the 
Bank award commonly known as Shastry and Desai Award- On the other hand, 
the contention of the Bank is that Rajmani Dubey continued to work as Cash 
Peon and the Head Cashier alone discharged the functions of the Cash Deptt. 
including that of the Assistant Cashier. The sort controvery. therefore, is whether 
during the period 4th July, 1960 to 31st August, 1964 when there was no Assistant 
Cashier, Rajmani Dubey rendered the duties of the Assistant Cashier and if so, 
whether in addition to his duties as Cash Peon or wholly as Assistant Cashier. 
It may be mentioned that after 31st August, 1964 another Assistant Cashier was 
posted in the branch namely, Sri Nagendra Prasad (W.W.l). There is some con¬ 
troversy as to when Sri Nagendra Prasad actually started working as Assistant 
Cashier but we are not concerned with that inasmuch as the reference is restrict¬ 
ed to the date of 31st August, 1964. 

4. The duties of Cash Peon are enumerated in a Bank Circular dated 3rd 
January 1967 (copy Ex. E/4) which are as follows:— 

Staff Departmental Circular No. 228 

Duties of Cash Peons: 

Presenting hundies and bills of all sorts to the parties. 

2. Going to the Treasuries for getting the bills passed. 

3, Presentation of documents. 

4 Bundling and stiching of currency notes under direct supervision of 
cashiers. 



4792 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Pari 11- 


o. Helping the cashiers in opening the cash and distributing tokens to Ihe 

Ledger Keepers. 

6, Sewing of parcels of currency notes under direct supervision it cashiers, 

7, Assorting and sealing of payment voueners under direct supervision of 

un officer. 

8, Assisting in opening dak and arranging the same. 

Besides the above, they are expected to do such type of other work, not 

of a cleiical nature, as Is entrusted to them by the Manager or Head 

of the Department. 

As a Cash Peon, Rajmani Dubey, admittedly had been doing these duties. The 
duties and functions of an Assistant Cashier are nowhere stated either in any of 
the eiiculars of the Bank or in any Bank awards and have to be determined 
with the prevalent practice in the Bank. There is no doubt that afLer the trans¬ 
fer of Sri Ishwari Prasad, Rajmani Dubey was the only person who remained 
in the Cash Department to assist the Head Cashier and there is ample material 
to show that he had been rendering some of the jobs which do not strictly fall 
within the realm of duties of Cash Peon. It was admitted by the Bank that the 
clearance with the State Bank of India and the Bank of Bihar namely, deposits 
and withdrawals with these banks was. rendered by Rajmani Dubey. These 
transactions ran into huge amounts. This obviously was not a job of a Cash 
Peon. Further, It is an admitted position in the joint inspection statement (Ex I) 
that from June 17, 1980 the insured cash parcels to post office were carried by 
Rajmani Dubey and he signed on these insured parcel registers. This is also 
not a part of the duty of a Cash Peon. It is a lurther admitted fact that in the 
absence of Head Cashier whether on leave or otherwise Rajmani Dubey worked 
for him in the Cash Department as a Cashier. This runs into several days and 
are enumerated in the joint inspection statement (Ex. I). He has been paid 
special allowance for having worked as Head Cashier. A peon is not ordinarily 
allowed to work as a Head Cashier unless he has been trusted and tried as Asstt. 
Cashier. The Bank actually treated him as an extra cashier in some of their 
communications to the State Bank. Ex. E/1, E/2, and E/3 are letters dated 9th 
November 1960, 11th November I960 and 22nd May 1982 in which the Bank 
while addressing these letters to the Agent, State Bank of India, for safe custody 
receipt or for exchange of notes which in Ex. E/3, is to the tune of Rs. 30,000, 
it was requested that the Cashier, Sri Rajmani Dubey. be issued the same. Not 
only this, the Bank Manager, Shri J. L. Khattar (E.W.2) admitted that he address¬ 
ed a communication to the Head Office (Ex, W/4) in which it was stated that 
the Cash Department was managed single handed by the Head Cashier, Shi H. K- 
Dubey, with the help of a Cash Peon and the Head Cashier entrusted the job 
of Asstt. Cashier to the Cash Peon, Rajmani Dubey, Sri Khattar, however, did 
not admit the date which is recorded os 1st August 1967, but the fact of sending 
the letter was admitted by him. As a matter of fact, a special allowance for 
doing extra job of Asstt. Cashier was allowed to Rajmani Dubey on the recom¬ 
mendation of Sri Khattar himself as is manifest by his letter dated 121h Decem¬ 
ber 1963 (Ex. E/191 and the Head Office letters, Ex. E/20 & E/21. Rajmani 
Dubey had since been receiving this extra allowance which was raised from 
Rs. 6 to Rs. 10. The whole controversy, however, centres round the fact whe¬ 
ther Rajmani Dubey in the normal course worked at the cash counter also for 
receiving and disbursing of cash as Asstt. Cashier. The Bank has vehemently 
denied that in the presence of the Head Cashier, Sri H. K. Dubey, cash transac¬ 
tions of the Bank were rendered by Rajmani Dubey and the stand appears to be 
correct in this respect. Except for those days when the Head Cashier was on 
leave, it does not appear that Rajmani Dubey normally attended at the counter 
for receipt or disbursement of cash. The joint inspection statement (Ex. II filed 
by the parties would show that Cashier Receipts & Payment Log Books were 
maintained and entries made by the Head Cashier ajone. The Head Cashier 
signed on all the vouchers during the entire period 1st July 1960 to 31st May 
1965 except for live dates which are mentioned at page of the joint inspection 
note and are 3rd January 1963, 14th November 1963, 11th January 1964, 20th 
January 1964 and 21st January 1964. On these dates also most of the vouchers 
were signed by the Head Cashier and a few alone were signed by Rajmani Dubey. 
For his working at the cash counter for reception of cash reliance is placed on 
the tact that denomination and number of notes are found entered on certain 
receipt vouchers between the period 1st May 1904 to 21st November 1964 which 
are detailed at pages 2, 3 and 4 of the joint inspection note (Ex. I). Details of 
denomination of notes and number are not stated In vouchers on other oafes 
except some of those mentioned in the joint inspection note- Head Cashier made 
no such entries and Rajmani Dubey also did not endorse the denomination on 



Sit. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OX' INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


all the vouchers signed by him as cashier. The Bank’s representative appended 
a note which has been marked as Ex. E/16 and the grounds stated therein raised 
a tremendous amount of suspicion in this regard. The first noticeable feature 
is that when Rajmani Dubey himself worked as Head Cashier independently he 
did not make such endorsements of denomination as mentioned in paragraph 2 
oi Ex- E/16- Sri Ishwari Prasad (W.W. 2) admitted that so long he was Asstt. 
Cashier, he did not enter the number and denomination of notes on cash vouchers- 
Sri Nageshwar Prasad (W.W. 1) also admitted that there was no practice of such 
endorsement before he took over. The Head Cashier, Sri H. K. Dubey (E.W- 2) 
also made no such endorsements. _ It is curious to find why Rajmani Dubey made 
these endorsements and that too only on some of the cash receipt vouchers and 
not all. The dates during which thdse endorsements have been made cn some 
of the vouchers are confined to the period from May, 1964 onwards; obviously 
when the controversy had arisen and the claim of the workman, Rajmani Dubey, 
had been taken up by the Union. This interpolation was possible because payment 
vouchers alone were kept in the Strong Room and receipt vouchers after they 
were bundled were kept with the Accountant. Rajmani Dubey was confronted 
with some of the entries and he could not give a plausible explanation for the 
same- He was cuestioned bv way of example with respect to two touchers, 
Ex. E/5 and E. 5/ A, t’aiough which a sum of Rs. 1,652 was received. He had 
received this amount on 12th May, 1964 for issue of one Bank dir ft of Rs. 650 
and another draft of Rs. 1,000 with bank charges of Re- 1 for each draft. The 
party tendering the notes had given the details on the back of the receipt voucher 
No. 9 and Rajmani Dubey had initialled the same on the right side of the total 
amount of Rs- 1.652. There was no occasion for him to make further endorsement of 
Rs- 1,001 on Ex. E‘/5 when the denomination had been given by the party himself 
on Ex. E. 5/A. He was asked to explain this but he gave no reply. In the note 
submitted by Sri Khattar (Ex. E. 16) he has illustrated such incongruous conduct 
in paragraph 5. It is evident that after the controversy had arisen and demand 
made. Rajmani Dubey managed to lay his hands on some of the bundles cf receipt 
vouchers and in order to create evidence that he received cash at the counter he 
contrived to make these entries about the number and denominations of the notes 
tendered with each vouchers and which significantly are not uniformly recorded. 
A glaring proof of the fact is that on 30th May, 1964 he was on leave as is proved 
by his leave application Ex. E/13. Curiously, however, even on this date also 
entries .ire fou^d of the number and denomination of the notes on the back of 
the cash vouchers- He made a vain attempt to explain although he had applied 
for leave to join the marriage of one of his relations, on the insistence of the 
Manager, he continued to work and left the Bank only one hour early from the 
closing time- An explanation of this nature can hardly carry conviction. Another 
circumstance on which reliance was placed was til? production of a number of 
rough slips (Ex. W/2) typed copies of which are Ex- W. 2/A showing that he 
used to maintain record of cash transactions. These also commenced from 
19th October, 1964 onwards and these rough loose chits obviously were managed 
and kept by him to boster up proof. No reliance can be placed on this material. 
In this connection, it was stated that there was a shortage once of Rs. 160 ..nd 
he had to make up the deficiency. Had it been a fact, the point should have 
been specifically stated in the statement of claim. It was introduced for the first 
time in evidence- Both the Head Cashier, Sri H. K. Dubey, and the Manager, 
Sri Khattar, denied the fact. From the consideration of these facts, it is abun¬ 
dantly clear that normally he was not working at the counter for the reception 
and disbursement of cash during the period. Rest of the duties of an Assistant 
Cashier were discharged hy him in addition to his own duties as a Cash Fecn 
and for which the Bank remunerated him with an* extra allowance of Rs. 10. 
Since, however, he had rendered all other duties of Asstt. Cashier recompense cf 
an extra allowance is a poor reward for his doing the double duties of a Cash 
Peon and an Asstt. Cashier. He should have been paid officiating allowance in 
accordance with paragraph 178 of the Shastry Award as modified by the L.A.T., 
so long that award was applicable and thereafter as directed in paragraph 6-56 
of the Desai Award, 

Decision 

It. is held that during the period under reference Rajmani Dubey besides 
working as a Cash Peon worked mostly as an Asstt. Cashier also. After making 
necessary adjustment of the special allowance paid to him, it is directed that 
the Bank shall pay him the officiating allowance in accordance with the Desai 
Award as contained in paragraph 6.56 for the period since when the Awaid 
became enforceable and for the prior period in accordance with the paragraph 178 
of the Shastry Award as modified by the L-A.T. He is not entitled to be designated 
as sc Asstt. Cashier, nor is he entitled to any special aFowance of Asstt, Cashier 



4794 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part 3if 


there being no Asstt. Cashier above the level of routine clerks in the Punjab 
National Bank so as to attract the relevant paragraph 164(B) 5 and 6 of the 
Shastry Award and paragraphs 5.282(9) and 5-282(10) of the Desai Award- This 
officiating allowance shall be payable to him for the period under reference 4th 
July, 1960 to 31st August, 1964. No order for costs. 

(Sd.' G. C. Acarv/ai 

Presidicg Ofiifei- 
30-11-1967 

rNo. F. 51 (85; /64-LRIV 1 

S.O- 4543.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
114 of 1947), the Central Government hereby oublishes the following cward of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to Messrs B- Paffiaik Mines (Private) Limited, Barbil and their workmen, 
which was received by the Central Government on the IT.th December. 1967. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 

Reference No. 122 of 1966 

Par ties : 

Employer? in relation to Messrs B. Patnaik Mines (Private) Tinilcd, 

AND 

Their workmen. 


Present: 

Shri S K. Sen—Presiding Officer- 
Appearances : 

On behalf of Employers—Shri D. Narsingh, Advocate. 

O it behalf of \Vorkmen —Absent 

State: C-risa IndUo, : Mini--; 


AWARD 

By Order No. 37/52/65-Lfil dated 1st February 1966. the Central Government 
leferred for adjudication an industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to M/s. B- Patnaik Mines (Private) Limited. Bar Ml and their workmen in respect 
of the matters mentioned in the following schedule: 

"1. Whether the recruitment of workmen through the Coalfield Recruiting 
Organisation/Goiakhpur Labour Organisation, by the management of 
Messrs B. Patnaik Mines (Private) Limited: Post Office Barbil, Dial 
Keonjhar, for employment in their iron and manganese mines with 
effect from the 22nd November, 1965 and its further continuance are 
legal and justified? 

2. If not, what should be the position of the workmen so recruited vis-a-vis 
the workmen employed in these mines and retrenched by the ex¬ 
raising contractors M/s. Girish Chandra and Brothers and Manmohan 
Singh?” 

2. At the instance of the Keonjhar Minos & Forest Workers union, the workmen 
employed departmenl.ally and under raising contractors of Messrs 3. Patnaik Mines 
(Private) Limited went on strike in the different mines of (be company from 
various dates in August 1.964; workmen at one mine beginning the strike from lOtli 
August 1964, at another mines from 16th August 1964 and at another from 20th 
August 1964. There were conciliation proceedings before the Conciliation Officer. 
Central, Jharsaguda, and through his efforts a settlement was made betwetn the 
management and the union on 10th September 1964 and the terms were embodied 
in a memorandum of settlement dated 10th September 1964 signed on behalf of the 
union by the General Secretary, Shri H. Behra and on behalf of the company, by 
the Secretary Shri N. Venkataraman. There were several terms in the agreement 
but in this case we are only concerned with Paragraph 12 of that memorandum of 
settlement, by which it was agreed that the management and union would jointly 
apply by 29th September 1964 to Shri D- C. Mohanty. President of Keonjhar Mines 
& Forest Workers Union to decide the dispute regarding the emoloyment of_ work¬ 
men recruited through Coalfields Recruiting Organisation or Gorakhpur Labour 
Department, in the Iron Ore and Mangenese Mines of Messrs B. Patnaik Mine? 
(Private) Limited- The joint application was made accordingly to Shri D- O 



Sec. 3(H)] 1*HF. GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1907/PA USA 2, 1889 


4795 


Mohan (y, and Shri Mohanty after hearing the parties made an award on 15th 
January 1965. Shri Mchanty decided that employment of workmen recruited 
througn. Coalfields _ Recruiting Organisation dr Gorakhpur Labour Department 
should not be continued and that the employment of workmen recruited through 
these organisations should be discontinued by 15th March 1965- The management 
accepted the award for the time being and discontinued the employment of the 
labour recruited through the C.R.O- and the G-L.D- But on 25th March 1365 the 
management gave notice of their intention to terminate the agreement recorded in 
the memorandum of settlement dated U)th September 1964 on the expiry of two 
months from. the date of the notice. From 22nd November, 1365 the management 
started recruiting labour thiough the Coalfields Recruiting Organisation; 54 Gorakh¬ 
pur labourers were recruited in the month of November, 1865 and ultimately the 
number of such labourers rose to 99. The union made a complaint to the A-L-C . 
Central. Jharsaguda against the recruitment ol the Gorakhpur labour, by a letter 
dated 2(itb November 1965- No agreed settlement could be arrived at during the 
conciliation proceedings and accordingly the matter has been referred to adjudica¬ 
tion 

.3. According to the written statement of the union, the recruitment of workmen 
through CKO. and Gorakhpur Labour Department is illegal because it is in con¬ 
travention of the award of Shri D. C. Mohanty which the management agreed to 
accept as final and binding, and as the recruitment was made without notifying the 
vacancies to the appropriate employment exchange as required bv the Employment 
Exchange (Compulsory Notification of Vacancies) Act, 1959. Funner, according to 
the union, the management had by a msmorandum cf settlement dated 23rd Sep¬ 
tember, 1905 agreed to offer employment to the workmen retrenched by ex-raising 
contractors, Messrs GIrish Chandra & Bros, and Shri Manmohan Singh, and without 
offering employment to all such retrenched workmen the management recruited 
C.R.O. labour. 

4- The management in their written statement raised a preliminary objection 
that the mode of recruitment by -he employers could not form the subject matter 
of an industrial dispute, as the management was entitled to recruit such workmen 
as they wanted by any mode of i ecruitment Without prejudice fo the preHrninary 
objection, the management-took the stand that the recruitment of Gorakhpur Labour 
through the C.R-O- made from 22nd November. 1965 eoidd not be considered illegal 
because the award of Shri D. C. Mohanty formed a part of the agreement dated 
10th September. 1904, and the management had cider the expiry of more than 
6 months from the date of the agreement given net ice of termination of the agree¬ 
ment after the expiry of two motifhs from the date of the notice, and so the agree¬ 
ment including the award no longer had effect after 25th May, 1965, the notice of 
termination have been given on 25th March 1965- Accordingly, the management 
claimed that they were entitled to recruit Gorakhpur Labour after 25th May, 1965, 
but they actually did so from ?2nd November, 1965- As regards failure to notify 
the vacancies to the employment exchange officer of the locality, the management 
stated that after the award by Shri D- C. Mohanty the management approached the 
Offlcer-in-charge of the Employment Exchange at Joda for supply of piece-rated 
workmen for the mining department of the company, but the offlcer-in-charge of the 
Employment Exchange expressed his inability to do so and therefore the company 
did not consider it necessary *o notify the vacancies which they filled up from 22nd 
November, 1965- As regards giving employment to the workmen retrenched by the 
ex-raising contractors, Messrs (Mrish Chandra & Bros, and Manmohan Singh, the 
management stated that they had offered employment to these retrenched workmen 
either directly under the company or under some of their existing raising contrac¬ 
tors. But some had not accepted the offer of employment and the management waK 
not responsible for those workmen. The management claimed to have complied 
With the terms of agreement contained in the Memorandum dated 23rd September. 
1965 and stated that the recruitment of C.R O- labour was made only aftc-r no more 
workmen out of the retrenched labourers were available for employment. 

5- At the hearing the union has not been represented- On three previous dates 
fixed for hearing, the hearing was adjourned on the prayer of the General Secretary 
of the Union. The General Secretary again sent a telegram asking for adjourn nent 
ou the 4Ti date of hearing fixed, namely 6th December, 1967 and Shri R. N. 
Banerjee, Advocate, appeared with a copy of the telegram and verbally asked for 
adiournment. Under Rule 10B(5) of the Central Rules under the Industrial Dis¬ 
putes Act. the tribunal is not ordinarily to grant more than three adjournments in 
all at the instance of one of the parties to the dispute unless there are very special 
circumstances. In the present case I was not satisfied that there was sufficient 
reason for granting an adjournment agai.i and when the prayer for adjournment 
was refused, Shri Banerjee withdrew from the case and so the case was taken up 
ex-parte. 




[Part 11— 


4796 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 188» 


6- I do not think that there is any suotance in the preliminary objection urged 
by Shri Narsingh, Under laissez fa ire economy, the Management had absolute free¬ 
dom both as to appointment and dismissal of workmen, but at present with adop¬ 
tion by the State of ideas of Social Welfare, this freedom has been considerably 
restricted; dismissal by the employers has become subject to challenge by trade 
unions and may undoubtedly be adjudicated by tribunals; and even in tire matter 
of employment, if a trade union consisting of a number of employees raises objec¬ 
tion to the recruitment of a class of persons, that also becomes the subject of an 
industrial dispute. The mode of recruitment may also foim the subject of an indus¬ 
trial dispute. I* is for the appropriate statutory authority or tribunal to decide 
how far there is any rational ground of objection by the trade union, but there is 
no doubt that such an industria dispute can be raised. 

7. The management examined one witness, namely the Labour Officer of the 
company, Shrl S- K- Mohanty, and has proved copies of the relevant document*- 
The industrial Disputes Act contains provisions relating to awards by arbitrator*; 
for the award ol an arbitrator have the legal binding force for one year as 
provided by Section 19 of the Act, it is necessary that the agreement to reier 
a dispute 1o arbitration be forwarded to the appropriate Government whereupon 
the Government will publish the arbitration agreement in the Official Gazette, 
vide Section 10-A clause (e) of the Act, and that the a warn ot the arbitrator shall 
also be sent to the appropriate Government for publication under Section 17 ol 
the Act. The award become enforceable only after the publication ot the same 
in the Gazette vide Section 17-A of the Act. In the present case although there 
was an agreement to refer the dispute as to employment of Gorakhpur labour 
to the arbitration of Shrl D. C. Mohanty, it was not an arbitration within the 
meaning of the Industrial Disputes <Act, because the agreement to reier the 
dispute to the arbitrator was not sent to the appropriate Government for publi¬ 
cation; nor was the award made by the arbitrator Shri D. C- Mohanty sent to the 
Government for publication. Accordingly the award which was made by Shrl 
D- C. Mohanty has no more force than the agreement made before the Conciliation 
Officer from which it arose- That agreement of which a copy is Ext- A was made 
'on 10th September, 1904. A settlement made by agreement in the course ot 
conciliation proceedings is binding on the parties for the period of 6 months except 
where the period for which the settlement shall be in force is embodied in the 
terms of agreement itself; and after such period, continues to be binding until 
Uie expiry of 2 months jrom the date on which a notice in writing of an intention 
to terminate the settlement is given by one of the parties to the other party. 
The agreement, Ext. A, does not mention any period for which the agreement 
would be in force. It Is no doubt mentioned in clause (il) of Paragraph 12 that 
the decision of Shri D. C. Mohanty would be final and binding; but this could 
only mean that neither party would appeal against that decision so long as the 
agreement was In force and the decision of the arbitrator would be binding so 
long as the agreement was In force. Thrrefore the normal life of the agreement 
would he 6 months and thereafter for 2 months after the service of notice of 
termination of the agreement. A copy of the notice of termination is Ext. 0- It 
was given on 25th March, 1965 and therefore from 25th May, 1965 the agreement 
was no longer in force, and it must he held that the award of arbitrator also 
.become ineffective from that date. There is therefore no substance in the plea 
of the union that the recruitment of Gorakhpur labour was illegal because it 
contravened the award by Shri D- C. Mohanty. 

4!. The management also produced Ext. Dl, a letter dated 20th January, 1965 
from the Offlcer-in-Charge of the Employment. Exchange Office at Joda in Keonjhar 
district. The Officer stated that the local labourers registered at the Employment 
exchange were not willing to work as piece-rated workmen except in the TTSCO 
mines and therefore the office was not in a position to supply mining labourers 
to Messrs. B- Patnaik Mines (Private) Limited- The management has not. given 
evidence to show that in the beginning of November, 1965 hefore the CRO 
labourers were recruited, a notice of the vacancies was giver to the Office of 
the Employment Exchange at Joda, and it must be presumed that no such notice 
was given- But in view of the letter, Ext. Dl, which they had received after trying 
to obtain labour from the tin ploy men t Exchange shortly after the award by 
Shri D, C- Mohanty, the management did not consider further notification of the 
vacancies to the Employment Exchange as necessary. Tn any case, employment 
of labourers without notification of the vacancies might make the employers 
liable to a punishment prescribed by the Employment Exchange (Compulsory 
Notification of Vacancies) Act, 1959, but it would rot make the appointments 
illegal. In this connection reference may be made to a decision of the Madras 
Hiffh Court, 1967 II LT.J 248 (CoosmopoHUm rinU Vg, District Employment Officer, 
Madras) where it was held that notwithstanding the obligation to report the 



S £C. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE Of INDIA: DECEMBER £8, I967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


vacancies, the Act does not impose the further obligation upon the employer to 
recruit any person through the Employment Exchange to fill a vacancy reported, 
and that the Act was intended to serve a statistical need to assess future policy 
In connection with the imparting of training to political employees, I, therefore 
hold that the employment of the Gorakhpur Labour through CRO- was not illegal 
because of the failure to notify the vacancies to the local Employment Exchange 
Office, though I may add a rider that in future the management would oe well 
advised to comply strictly with the provisions of the Employment Exchange 
(Compulsory Notification of Vacancies) Act, 1959. 

9. In view of the finding on the first issue referred for adjudication, the second 
issue does not arise in view of the terms in which it is framed; because the 
second issue is to be considered only If the recruitment of workmen through 
C.R-O. or G-L.O. 1- found to be not legal and not justified. The management has 
however given evidence m show that the agreement of 23rd September, 1965 vide 
the memorandum of settlement, Ext. E, has been fully implemented by the com- 
pany. Under Paragraph 1 of the terms of settlement, the management agreed 
that they should prepare a list of all the workmen who were previously working 
under Messrs Girish Chandra & Bros, and Shrl Manmohan Singh, ex-raising 
contractors and who applied to the management for fresh employment by 30th 
September. 1965, and that the management would provide fresh employment to 
10 senior most workmen of the list directly under them in one of their iron ore 
mines and the next 20 workmen included in the list under their raising contractors 
by 15th October, 1965 and that future vacancies directly under the management 
or under any of the raising contractors would be filled from among the remaining 
workmen included in the list who offered themselves for employment on being 
given Intimation. Shri S. K. Mohanty who deposed for the management stated 
that 102 applications were received from the retrenched workmen of the ex-raising 
contractors, and a list of the 102 persons was prepared and a copy thereof was 
also sent to the General Secretary of the Union, Ext. F ig the copy of the letter 
sent to the union together with the list, of 102 persons. Shri Mohanty also stated 
that employment was Riven to 75 of these men, 22 being employed directly under 
the company and 53 under existing raising contractors and the remaining 27 were 
offered employment but did not turn up for employment. Ext- G is a statement 
prepared by Shri Mohanty showing the dates when these men were offered em¬ 
ployment and showing also whether they were employed directly under the com¬ 
pany or under the raising contractors The statement shows that before 15th 
October, 1965, the date mentioned in Paragraph 1 of the memorandum of settle¬ 
ment. Ext. F. direct employment under the company was offered to more than 
10 of the seniormost men. It was on 1 Pth October, 1965 offered to the first 20 
persons in the list. At the same time on Kith October, 1965 letters of employment 
under the raising contractors were Issued to the next. 25 persons on the list- 
Other persons mentioned in the list were employed snbsseciuently as vacancies 
aro=e and that the".’ were -dl offered employment befor" 22nd Novmber, 1965, which 
is th® date from which CRO Labour was recruited. Thus ihe recruitment of CRO 
Labour was not in contravention of the agreement dated 23rd September, 1965 
and not to the prejudice of the retrenched workmen of the two ex-raising con¬ 
tractors. 

10- Mv award therefore is as follows:— 

1. Recruitment of workmen through Coalfield Recruiting Organisation/ 
Gorakhour Labour Organisation by the management of Messrs. B. Patnaik Mines 
(Private) Limited from 22nd November, 1P05 was legal and justified. 

2. In view of the finding on the first, issue, this issue does not arise; at the 
same time my finding 1 k that tb" workmen previously emplovrd in the mines 
who we^e retrenched by ex-raising contractors. Messrs. Oirish Chandra & Bros- 
and Shri Mcnmohan Sin"h were offered employment by the management in terms 
of the memorandum of settlement dated 23rd Seotemher, 1965 and the recruitment 
through C.R.O. or G.L-O. was not made to the prejudice of these workmen. 

(Sd.) S K- Sen. 

Dated, fitly December, 1967. Presidium Officer. 

[No- 37/52/65-LRI.] 


S.O. 4544 — In pursuance of section 17 of ihe Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 
of 19471 the Centra 1 Government herebv publishes the fo'Jowing award of the 
Indust.-ial Tribunal, .Tabn'nur, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to Paonla Manganese Mines of R, S Seth Gnplkishan Agrawal, Mining 



4798 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part h- 


Proprietors, Tumsar and Ihelr workmen, which wag received by the Central 
Government on the 12th December, 1967. 


BEFORE THE CENTNAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUN AL-CUM- 
LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR. 


Dated November 30, 1967. 

Present : 

Sri G. C. Agarwala.—Presiding Officer, 

Rea Cask No. CGIT/LC(R) (114) op 1947. 

Parties; 

Employers in relation to Paonia Manganese Mines of R. S. Seth Gopikishan 
Agrawal Mining Proprietors, Tumsar- 

Vs. 

Their Workmen through Shri K. Nutneshwar, Secretary, Samyukta Khadan 
Mazdoor Sangh, P.O- Rajnandgaon. 

Appearances’ 

For employers ,—Shri B. R. Runbhe, Authorised representative. 

For workmen. —S/Sri P. K. Thakur, Vice President and Sri K. Nutnesh¬ 
war, Secretary of the Union. 

District: Balabhat. (M.P.) Industry; Manganese Mine. 

AWARD 

By Notification No. 35/26/66-LRI dated 5th June, 1967, the Ministry of Labour 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) re¬ 
ferred the following matters of dispute, ns stated in the schedule to the order of 
reference, for adjudication to this Tribunal: 


Matters of Dispute 

(a) Whether the demand of the workers of Poania Manganese Mlne 3 P.O 
Tlrodl Teh- Waraseonl, Distt- Balaghat (M.P.) of M/s. R- S. Seth 
Gopiklshan Agrawal Tumsar for increase of wages is iustificd? If so 
to what relief are they entitled and from which date? 


(b) Whether the demand of the workers of Pnonla Manganese Mines PO 

Tirodl Teh. Waraseonl Distt- Balaghat (M-P.) of M/s. R s' Seth 

Gopiklshan Agrawal, Tumsar for payment of bonus for the year 1965 
Is justified? If so, to what relief are they ertltled?, 

After issue of notices, the Union, Samyukta Khadan Mazdoor Sangh P.O 
Kajnftndgaon, filed the statement of claim. No statement of claim was filed bv the 
employers and proceedings were recorded ex parte on 19th September 1967 On 
Hi* next date of hearing which was 24th October. 1967, the Union applied for 
tune to compromise the dispute and on this date ivhich was the adjourned date 
for bearing, compromise settlement has been filed which an annexure to this 
award. Prom the terms of the compromise settlement, it would appear that the 
management has agreed to increase the wages of the workers as stated in para¬ 
graph 1 of the settlement and have further paid Bonus to the entitleH m 

Wit! i the bn isions of the Bonus'Act The issueT underTefcen c 

the date of tWs award C ° mpromise Element shall be effective from 


Sd./- G. C- Agarwala, 
Presiding Officer, 
30-11-1967. 


Annexure 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TR'IBUNAI OTIM 
LABOUR COURT AT JABALPUR «^NAL-CUM- 

Reference No. CGIT/LC(R) 114/67 

Employers in Relation to the Paonia Mines District Ba’aghat of M/s R S 
Seth Gopiklshan Agrawal, Mines Proprietor, Turpsar- ’ ’ 

and 

Their Workmen of Paonia Mine 

^ ^ K ' SA *“< »< H S. Sert, CopiM.b,, 



9kT 8(H)] THE GAZETTE or INDIA . DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 4 7 99. 


For the Workmen-—Shri K- Nutneshwar, Secretary, Samyukta Khadan 
Mazdoor Sangh, Tirodi (M.P.). 

Both the Parties do hereby agree: 

1. A To pay Rs. 2.10 per day tor surface piece rated workers employed on Bed 
ore mining; 

B To pay Rs. J-B5 per day for surface piece rated workers employed on 
Float ore mining. 

C Minimum daily wage for adults engaged on surface (other than actual 
Mining) shall be Rs. 1.75 per day for Male and Rs. 1-60 for female- 

It is also agreed that all the wages of the different categories have to be averag¬ 
ed every four weeks and if the average of such four weeks is not equivalent to 
the wage mentioned in the category mentioned above, then the employer shall 
make the difference good to the employees. 

2- The Bonus for the year 1965 (nineteen sixlyflvej has been paid to the entitl¬ 
ed workers at Paonla mine in accordance with Bonus Act 1985. 

Both parties have agreed that this Settlement shall come into force from the 
date of the consented award given by the Tribunal and not with retrospective 
effect. The Parties pray that an award be made in the above terms in this refer¬ 
ence. 

Dated at Tumsar the 20th day of November 1967. 

For the Employers : For the Workmen of Paonia Mines : 

Sd./- S. K. Siihivastava, Sd./- K. Nutneshwar, 

Agent, Secretary, 

Sd-/- R- S Seth Goplkishan, Aguawal. Samyukta Khadan Mazdoor 

Tumsar. Sangh, Tirodi. 


Witnesses: — 

1, Sd-/- T. R. Singh. 

2. Sd./- D P Agnihotri, 


PART OF AWARD. 


Sd /- G. C. Agarwala, 
Presiding Officer, 
30-11-1967. 

[No. 35/26/66-LRI.] 

S.O. 4545.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947) tire Central Government hereby publishes the following awaru of the 
Industrial Tribunal Bombay in the Industrial dispute between the employers In 
relation to Messrs Dharsi Moolji, Bombay and their workmen which was received 
by the Central Government on ilth December, 1967. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, BOMBAY. 

Reference No. CGIT-0 of 1967. 


Parties: 

Employers in relation to Messrs. Dbarsi Moolji, Bombay. 

ANDi 

their workmen. 

Present: 

Shri A, T. Zombie,—Presiding Officer . 

Appearances: 

For the employers —Shri Y. H. Rane, Manager and Shri K. S. Shah, Accoun¬ 
tant, Dharsi Moolji, Bombay, 

For the workmen .—Shri H. K. Sowani, Advocate with Shri I. S. Sawant 
Assistant Secretary, Transport and Dock Workers’ Union, Bombay. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, I8B9 [Part II- 


State: Maharashtra- Industry- : Ports and Dock. 

Dated at Bombay the 6th day of December 1967. 

AWARD PART I. 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, by Order 
No- 28(5)/67-LR.III dated 27th March, 1967, have referred to tills Tribunal the 
industrial dispute between the employers in relation to Messrs. Dharsi Moolji. 
Bombay, and their workmen represented by the Transport and Dock Workers' 
Union, Bombay, in respect of ten demands as specified in the schedule attached 
to the order of reference and sought the finding of this Tribunal as to whether the 
demands put forth by the workmen were justified. Demand No. 9 of this refer¬ 
ence is in the following terms: — 

Schedule 

1|l <ii *J> 

(91 “Each employee should be paid an amount of six months wages as 
Bonus for the’year 1064-65 and 1365-66" 

2. Notices under Ru’e 10B(1) of the Industrial Disputes (Central) Pules. 1957, 
were sent to the parties and the union filed Us written statement. The employers 
have not put forth their objections but the representatives of both the parties 
have in the meantime negotiated and settled demand No. 9 stated above. 

3. Both the parties have produced the document of the terms of settlement 
which is marked annexure “A”. This memorandum of settlement has been signed 
by the Secretary of the Transport and Dock Workers’ Union on behalf of the 
workmen and the Manager and Accountant on behalf of the employers. Accord¬ 
ing to the terms of settlement the employers have agreed to pay to all the cate- 

f ories of them workmen bonus equivalent to 4 per cent of the total wages earned 
y each of them during the years 1964-65 and 1965-66. This amount is to be paid 
on or before the 5th December, 1967, subject to the conditions applicable under 
the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965. The company has also agreed to pay a further 
sum of Rs. 1,000 in addition to the abovementioned bonus for disbursement among 
the employers. I find the terms of settlement fair and reasonable and accordingly 
1 pass an award Part I in terms of annexure “A” which shall form part, of this 
award and will dispose of demand No. 9 in the schedule. 

No order as to costs. 

Sd./- A. T. Zamluf,. 
Presiding Officer, 

Centra 1 Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Bombay- 

Annexuce ‘A’ 

BEFORE SHRI A. T. ZAMBRE, PRESIDING OFFICER CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 
INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, BOMBAY 
Reference No. CGIT/6 of 1967. 

Between: 

M/s. Dharsi Moolji 

AND 

Their Workmen. 

In the matter of workmen’s demand relating to Provident Fund etc, 

MAY IT PLEASE THE HONOURABLE TRIBUNAL, 

After the above reference was made to this Honourable Tribunal, *he Transport 
and Dock Workers’ Union, representing the employees of M/s, Dharsi Moolji, 
Bombay, discussed the demands relating to bonus for the years 1964-.65 and 1965-66 
with the representatives of the said company and as a result of the said negotia¬ 
tions the parties have reached a settlement as under; 

Terms of Settlement 

1. The employer firm namely; M/s. Dharsi Moolji agrees to pay to all categories 
of their workmen including Malhadi workers bonus equivalent to 4 per cent of 
the total wages earned by each of them during the years 1964-05 and 1965-66 on 
or before 6th of December, 1967. 



»ec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 2B, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 4897 


2. The above payment will be made subject to the conditions applicable to such 
payment under the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965. 

3. The firm also agrees to pay a lump sum of Rs. 1,000 (Rupees one thousand 
only) in addition to the abovementioned bonus for disbursement amongst the con¬ 
cerned employees in consultation with the Transport and Dock Woikers' Union, 
Bombay, 

In view of the ahove settlement the parties pray that the Honourable Tribunal 
may be pleased to make its Award in terms thereof. 

Bombay: 

Dated 30 fh November, 1967. 

Sd./- Illegible, 

Secretary, 

Transport and Dock Workers’ Union, Bombay. 

Sd./- Illegible, 
Manager, 

for M/s ■ Dharsi Moolji, Bombay. 
K. S. Shaii. 
Accountant, 

for M/s. Dharsi Moolji, Bombay 
[No. 28(5) /67-LRIII.l 

jVcic Delhi, the 1 6th December 1967 

S-O. 4546-—Whereas a vacancy has occurred in the office of the Presiding Officer 
•of the Labour Court, Madras, constituted by the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Labour and Employment No- S.O. 461, dated the 
5th February, 1963; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 8 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby appoints Slirl 
S. Rangarajan as the Presiding Officer of the said Labour Court. 

TNo. F. 1 / 109/G7-LRI. ] 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 15th December 1967 

S.O- 4547.—Whereas the employers in relation to Messrs- K, C- Daga Shri 
Wazir Shah, Faiz Mohammed, Fazal Shah and Champalal, Contractors of Messrs. 
Bikaner Gypsums Limited, Bikaner and their workmen represented by the Gyp¬ 
sum Mine Workers Union. Jamsar have jointly applied to the Central Govern¬ 
ment for reference to a Tribunal of an industrial dispute that exists between 
them in respect of the matters set forth in the said application and reproduced 
in the Schedule hereto annexed; 


And whereas the Central Government is satisfied thal the said Gypsum Mine 
Workers Union represents a majority of the workmen; .. ' 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and sub¬ 
section (2) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 (14 of 1947) the 
Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which Shri 
Jawan Singh Ranawat shall be the Presiding Officer with Headquarters at Jainur 
and reiers the Saul dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 


Sciikdule 

1- Whether any relief is due to the contractor's leading labourers a<- ner 

demand No. 1 of settlement dated the 26th and 27th February," 1960 
m view of the interim relief already granted with elfeet from 1st 

fs^May 7 1966* and ™ ^ llardeo Joshi Award with effect from 

2- Whether the strike by the leading labourers with effect from 6th October 

196/ was legal and justified and if so, whether they are iustifierl tri 
receive any compensation for the strike period. 


[No 'lA/'i'i /67-LRI.l 
S. S SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy. 



4802 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1907 

S.O- 4548.— Whereas the Central Government waB satisfied that the Marlajesu 
Match Industries was situated in Kadapanakunnu area which was a sparse area 
(that is, an area whose Insurable population was less than 500) in the district of 
Trivandrum in the State of Kerala. 

And, whereas by virtue of its location in a sparse area, the aforesaid factory 
was granted exemption from the payment of the employer’s special contribution 
under section 73-F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 134 of 1048) 
until enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the 
Central Government in the late Ministry 0 f Labour and Employment Notification 
No. F.0(7) /62-HI, dated the 25th May, 1904; 

And, whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the Insurable population 
of the Kadapanakunnu area in the district of Trivandrum in the State of Kerala 
has now exceeded 500, and it is no longer a sparse area; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73-F of the 
Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the said notification, namely 

In the Schedule to the said notification, in the entries relating to serial No. 3, 
the entry "Kodapanakunnu” in column 3 and the entry relating thereto 
in column 4 shall be omitted. 

[No. F. 0/22/07-HI ] 


S.O. 4549. —Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that 1. Patel Gordhan- 
bhai Motlbhaj, Jorda Factory. 2. Dahyabhal Ishwarbhai Patel, Jorda Factory - 
3- Geeta Iron and Brass Works. 4. Dipee Engineering Corporation, were situated 
in Bajwa area which was a sparse area (that is, an area whose insurable population 
was less than 500) in the district of Baroda In the State of Gujarat. 

And, whereas by virtue of their location tn a sparse area, the aforesaid factories 
were granted exemption from the payment of the employer’s special contribution 
under section 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948) until 
enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central 
Government through the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Labour and Employment No, S.O. 2849, dated the 4th September, 1903; 

And, whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population 
of the Bajwa area in the district of Baroda in the State of Guj&rat has now 
exceeded 500, and It Is no longer a sparse area; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of ’ the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the said notification, namely:— 

In the Schedule to the said notification, against serial No. L, the entry 
‘Bajwa’ in column 3 and all entries relating to “Bajjva” in Column 4 
shall be omitted. 


[No. F. 0/14/07-HI.j 


New Delhi, the 12 th December 1907 

S.O. 4550.—Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Syamala Rice Mill, Kuchipudl, Guntur District, State of Andhra Pradesh 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Fund Act 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section t of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the Act to the said establishment- 

This notification shall he deemed to haye come into force on the 1 st day of 


[No. 8/5.7/67-PJT-LL] 



Sec. S(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 196 7/PA USA 2 , 1869 I 4803 


S O 4551. —In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees' 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government, having regard 
to the location of the factory, vh-, the Text Book Press, Bhubaneswar, whicn is 
In an implemented area, hereby exempts the said factory from the payment of 
the employer’s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 18th December, 1967- 

LNo. F. 6(32)/60-HI-] 

S.O. 4552.—Whereas the Central Government Is satisfied that the employees 
of the Geodetic and Research Branch Workshop, Survey of India, Dehra Dun, 
belonging to the Government of India, are otherwise in receipt of benefits sub¬ 
stantially similar to the benefits provided under the Employees’ State Insurance 
Act, 1943 (34 of 1948). 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the 
Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), and In continuation of the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment 
and Rehabilitation, (Department of Labour and Employment) No. F-6(84)/65-HL 
dated the 20th January. 1967, the Central Government, after consultation with 
the Corporation hereby exempts the said Geodetic and Research Branch Workshop 
from all the provisions of the said Act for a further period of one year with 
effect from the 1st January, 1968. 

[No. F. 6(79)/67-HI.] 


New Delhi, the 14th December 1967 

8.0. 4553.—Whereas It appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs T- V. S. Gonikoppal, Coorg, have agreed that the provisions of the Em¬ 
ployees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the 3 aid Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1 st day of 
August, 1967- 

[No. 8/129/07/PF-II.] 


New Delhi, the 16th December 1907 

S.O. 4554—In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73 F of the Employees' 
State Insurance Act, 1948, (34 ol 1948), and having regard to the location of the 
factory in an implemented area, the Central Government hereby exempts the 
State Transport Maintenance Centre. Dhubri, belonging to the State Government 
of Assam from the payment of the employer’s special contribution leviable under 
Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year with effect from 
the 1st January, 1968- 

[No- F. 6(80) / 67-HI. | 

S.O. 4555-—In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73-F of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby exempts 
the Central Dairy, Nagpur Milk Scheme, Nagpur, having regard to its location 
In an Implemented area, from the payment of the employer’s special contribution 
leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year with 
effect from the 2nd January, 1968. 


[No. F. 0C63)/06-HI.l 
MAHINDRA K1SHORE, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1967 

S O. 4550 ■—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (l) at section 
4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948), the 



4804 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 19 G 7 /PAUSA 2, 1889 [Pa*t II 


Central Government hereby makes the following Scheme further to amend the 
Madras Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1957, 
the same having been previously published as required by the said sub-section, 
namely:— 

1. This Scheme may be called the Madras Unregistered Dock Workers (Regu¬ 
lation of Employment) Amendment Scheme, 1967- 

2. In the Schedule to the Madras Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of 
Employment) Scheme, 1957, after Item (6), the following item shall be added, 
namely:— 

"(7) Labour employed in handling iron and steel, billets and timber." 

[No- 62/3/67-Pac.II.l 
K. D- HAJELA, Under Secy. 


(Department of Rehabilitation) 

(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 9th November 1967 

S.O. 4557-—In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
(2) of section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 
1954, the Central Government hereby appoints the Naib Tehsildar (Sales) of 
the State Rehabilitation Department to be a Managing Officer for the purpose of 
performing the functions assigned to a Managing Officer by or under the said 
Act for the entire District of Simla, in respect of the properties referred to in 
the notification of the Government of India In the Ministry of Works, Housing 
& Rehabilitation (Department of Rehabilitation) No. 3(37)/L&R-63 dated the 
5th March, 1964. 

The notification issued by this Department vide No. 3(37)/L&R'-63 dated the 
18th April, 1964 appointing the Tehsiidars (Mahal), Kasauli and Kandaghat and 
Naib Tehsildar (Mahal) Simla is hereby withdrawn. 


[No- 3(37)/L&R-fl3.1 

A G. VASWANI, 
Settlement Commissioner (A) & 
Ex-Officio Under Secy. 


(Department of Rehabilitation) 

(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 11 th December 1967 

S.O. 4558,—In exercise of the powers conferred on him by Sub-section (2) of 
Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (XII of 1054), 
Chief Settlement Commissioner hereby delegates to Shrl Gulab L. Aiwani, Settle¬ 
ment Commissioner, with effect from the forenoon of 8th November, 1967, the fol¬ 
lowing powers of the Chief Settlement Commissioner:-— 

(1) Powers to call for the record of any case decided by the Settlement 
Officer and pass orders In the case under proviso to sub-section (3) of 
Section 4 of the said Act- 

(2) Special powers of revision under Section 5 of the said Act in respect 
of cases decided under the Displaced Persons (Claims) Act, 1950 
(44 of 1950). 

[No. 5(6)/AGZ/66 ] 


H, K, TANDON, 

Chief Settlement Commissioner- 



MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT & COMPANY AFFAIRS 
(Department of Industrial Developncen) 

(Indian Standards Institutional; 

Neve Delhi, the 23 rd November 1967 

S.O. 4559 —The Certification Marts licences, details of which are mentioned in the Schedule given hereafter, have lapsed or their renewal deferred: 

The Schedule 


Licence No. 
and Date 


Licensee’s Name and Address' 


Article/Process and the Relevant S.O. Number and Date of 
IS: No. the Gazette Notifying 

Grant of Licence 


Remarks 


1 CM1L-461 

2S-9-1962 

2 CM/L-584 

24-9-1963 

3 CM/L-600 

20-11-1963 


4 CM/L-786 
21-9-1964 


5 GM/L-787 
24-9-1964 


6 CM/L-790 

30-9-1964 


Geo Industries <st Insecticides (India) Pvt. BHC dusting powders—IS : 561- 
Ltd., Field No. 82/3(0) Sathankadu, Kala- 1962. 
dipet, Madras-19. 

Ganges Flour Mills, 365 Harrisganj, G. T. Maida, grade high gluten—IS : 

Road, Kanpur. 1009—1957. 

Hind Cycles Ltd., 250 Worli, Bombay. Bicycle chains—IS :627—1961 


Oswal Engg. & General Works, 49 Industrial Fractional horse power electric 
Area, Faridabad. motors, 1/4 H.P., 1/3 HP and 

1/2 HP, single phase capacitor 
start—IS: 996—1959 

Nagpal Electric & Radio Co., 1547-4S Kucha Electric hot plates (open type) of 
Seth, Danba Kalan, Delhi. voltages not exceeding 250 


Metha Chemicals No. 58 Mount Rod, Guin- 
dv, Madras-is 


voltages not exceeding 250 
volts (1 000 watts only) —IS : 
365—1952. 

Sulphuric add—IS :266—1961 


S.O. 1680 dated 
22-6-1963 

S.O. 2959 dated 
19-10-1963 
S. O. 3539 dated 
21-12-1963 


S.O. 3762 dated 
31-10-1964 


S.O. 3762 dated 
31-10-1964 


S. O. 3762 dated 
31-10-1964 


Deferred after 
15-10-1967. 

Deferred after 
15-10-1967. 

The licence was de¬ 
ferred after 15-12-66. 
It should now be 
treated as lapsed after 
that date. 

Lapsed after 
15-10-1967. 


Lapsed after 
15-10-1967. 


The licence was de¬ 
ferred after 31-3-1967. 
It should now 
be treated as Lapsed 
after that date.- 


7 CM/L-795 
309-1964 


Prakash Engg. Co. & Rolling Mills, Freeganj, 
Agia City. 

8 CM/L-796 Prakash Engg. Co & P.ollmg Mills, Freeganj, 

309-1964 Agra City. 

9 CM/L-801 Satellite Engg. Ltd., P,Q. Maize Products. 

20101964 Kathwada, Ahmedabad-2. 

10 GM/L-II48 Ajax Electricals, 18 D.L.F. Industrial Area, 
27-9-1965 Najafgarb Read, New Delhi-15 


11 CMj'L-i 172 The Premier Lighting Industries Pvt. Ltd., 

6-12-1965 Dr. A. NairRoad, Bombay-n. 


12 CM/L-I3I5 Standard Products Mfg. Co., Standard 
22-8-1966 House, Old Kuria, Bombay-70. 

13 CM/L-1343 Central Insecticides & Fertilizers, Vihar 
309-1966 Road, Sakinaka, Kuria, Bombay-70 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23 , 1967 /PAUSA 2 , 1889 [Part II- 





New Delhi, the 24 th November 1967 

S.O.45G0— In continuation of the notification published under S.O, icis da’e 1 25 March 1965 in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub¬ 
section (it) da ted 3 April 196*;, the Indian St mdards Institution hereby notifies the additional des'gnsofthe Standard Mark for steel drums 
(galvanised and ungalvavnzei) which, together with their verbal description and the title of the Indian Standard, are given in the following schedule. 

These designs of the Standard Mark, for the purpose of the Indian Stan, lards Institution (Certification Marks) Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regula¬ 
tions framed thereunder, shall come into force with effect from 30th October 1967: 

The Schedule 


Serial Design of the Product/Class of Product No. and Title of the Relevant Verbal Description of the design of the 

No. Standard Mark Indian Standard Standard Mark 



DRUM ONLY 

2 . IS: 255 a 



BI 

drum only 

IS: 255a • 



C 

DRUM ONLY 


\ 


Steel drums (galvanized 
and ungalvanized) 


y 


j 


The monogram of the Indian Standards 
Institution consisting of letters ‘ 1 ST, 
drawn in the exact style and relative 
IS: 2552—1963 Specification for proportions as indicated in col. (2), the 
steel drums (galvanized and number designation of the Indian Standard 
ungalvanizedl being inscribed on the top side and relevant 

grade designation being subscribed under 
the bottom side of the monogram as 
indicated in the designs. 


[No.MD /17 :a.] 


Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23. 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 



JtO- 456r,— In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that amendments to the Indian Standards given in the schedule hereto annexed have been issued under the powers conferr ed by the sub- 
Kgulationfr) of Regulation 3 of the said Regulations. 

The Schedule 


Serial 

No.j 

No. and title of the Indian Standard 
-- amended 

No. and Date of 
Gazette Notifi¬ 
cation in which 
the establishment 
of the Indian Stan¬ 
dard was notified 

No. and Date of 
the Amendment 

Brief particulars of the Amendment 

Date from which the 
amendment shall 

ha vc effect 

(I) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 

( 5 ) 

(6) 

I 

IS: 561—1962 Specification for BHC 
dusting powders (second revision) 

S. 0 .3593 dated 

1 December 1962 

No. 3 

September 1967 

(«) Clauses A-4-i A-4-2 A-5.i(a) and 1 
A-5.1.1 have been amended. j 

(fi) Clause A-5.1 (b) has been substituted | 
by a new one 

(iii) Page 7 Table III SL No. (iii)—Delete j 

the item and the entries from the res- 

1 

► 30 September 1967 


pective columns against it. 

2 IS:562—1962 Specification for BHC S.O. 3593 dated No. 2 Clauses B-3.3 B-4.3 and C-3.2 have been 

water dispersible powder concentrates 1 December 1962 September 1967 amended. 

(second revision) 


3 IS: 564—1961 Specification for DDT 
dusting powders (revised) 


S.O. 1919 dated 
23 June 1962 


4 IS: 565—1961 Specification for DDT. 

water dispersible powder concentrates 
(revised) 

5 IS: 1362—1962 Dimensions for screw 

threads for general purposes (dia¬ 
meter range 1-4 to 3,9 mm) (revised) 


S.O. 2242 dated 
21 July 1962 

S.O. H47 dated 
20 April 1963 


No. 3 

September 1967 


No. 3 

September 1967 


(*) Clauses A-4.1, A-4.2, A-5.i(a), A-5.1.1 ') 
and D-2.2 have been amended I 

(ft) Clause A-5.r(6) has been substituted by I 

a new one. )-30th September 1967 

(fit) Page 6 Table III SI. No. (iii)—Delete 
the item and the entries in the respec¬ 
tive columns against it. 

Page 4, Table I. coL(3) against SL No. (i)— 

Substitute‘±5’for‘±4’ J 


Erratum Page 13 third column under column head- 15 November 1967 

ing Major Diameter’—Substitute'Coarse 
9d’ for‘coarse 8d’ 


4808 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/FAUSA 2 , 1889 [Pari II- 



6 

7 

S 


IS: 1505—1959 Specification forBHC 
smoke generators 

IS: 2129—1962 Specification for para- 
thicn emulsifiable concentrates 
IS: 2265—1963 Specification far galva¬ 
nized stee! wire strand for signalling 
purposes 


S.O. 1572 dated 
25 June i960 
$.6. 3881 dared 
29 December 1962 

S. O, 1147 dated 
20 April 1963 


9 IS: 2659—1964 Specification tor ena¬ 
melled round copper wire for elevated 
temperatures 

10 IS: 2864—1964 Specification for chlor- 
dane dusting powders- 


S.O. H52dated 
10 April 1965 

S.O. 618 dated 
20 February 1965 


ri IS:2865—1964 Specification for me¬ 
thyl paratbion emulsifiable concen¬ 
trates. 

12 IS: 3043—1966 Code of practice for 
eanhing. 


S. O. S95 dated 
20 March 1965 

S. 0 . 4023 dated 
SiDecember 1966 


13 IS : 3S32—1966 Specification for hand- 
operated chain pulley blocks. 


S.O. 1533 dated 
29 April, 967 


N0.2 

September 1967 
No. 4 

September 1967 
No. 1 

August 1967 


Clause 6.1 has been substituted by a new one 1 

>30th September 1967 

Clauses 3.2.5 and E-3 1 3 have been amended J 

•J) Clauses 0-4 and 6 5 have been amend- 31st August 1967. 
ed 

(if) Clause 3- r has been substituted by a 
new one. 


Note :—This amendment was wrongly 
issued as Amendment No. 3 which remains 
cancelled now. Errata No. 1 and 2 have 
also been included in in this amendment. 


No. 2 

August 1967 


(«i Clause4.1.1 has been deleted 
(if) Table VI has been substituted by a new 
one. 


\ 

/ 


31 August 1967. 


No. 1 

September 1967 


No. 1 

September 1967 
No. 1 

September 1967 


No. 1 

October 1967 


it) Clauses C-2.1, E-4.1, E-4.2, E-5-i(a) 
and E-5.1.1 have been amended 
{if) ClauseE-5.1 (b) has been substituted by 
a new one. 

(tit) Page 14, Table 3, SI. No. (iii>—Delete 
the item and the entries from the res¬ 
pective columns againstit. 


30 September 1967 


Clause 2.2.5 has been amended 


(i) Clauses 9.2.2.12.3.2, 12.4.2 12.7.2, 
14.2.1,15.1.1, 17.3.2.3, 17.3.2.4 and 
17.3.2.5 have been amended 
(it) Clauses 4.7,9.1.2 and 9.2.4 have been 
substituted by new ones. 


j 

V30 September 1967 


J 


Clause 3.7.1 has been substituted by a new 31 October 1967. 
one. 


Copies of these amendment slips are available, free of cost, with the Indian Standards Institution, Manak B ha van, 9 Bahadur Shah Z afar Marg, 
New Delhi-1 and also its branches at (i) Bombay Mutual Terrace, Sandhurst Bridge, Bombay-? (ii) Third and Fourth Floors, 5 Chowringhee Approach 
Calcutta-13 (lit) Second Floor, Sathyamurthi Bhavan, 54 General Patters Road, Madras fiv) 117 '418-B Sarvodaya Nagar Kanpur. 


[No. MD/I3:?.] 


4810 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1997/PAUSA 2, 18 » [Part B- 

S.0.4J6J,—In pursuance of sub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standaid 
In't oitlon (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution hereby 
notifies that the Indian Standard(s), particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto anne¬ 
xed have been established during the period 1 to 15 November, 1967 : 

The Schedule 


No. and Title of the Indian No. and Title of the Indian 
Standard Established Standard or Standards, if 
any, superseded by the 
new Indian Standard 


Brief Particulars 


IS: 380—1967 Specification IS: 380-1952 Specification Th s standard p: 
for F rgnch chalk, technical for French chalk, technical requirements and 
(,first revision ) of sampling and t 


Th s standard prescribes the 
requirements and the methocto 
of sampling and test for French 
chalk, technical used for 
various purposes (Price Rs. 6 00) 


IS: 422—1967Specification 
for brass sheet and strip 
for the manufacture of 
utensila (first revision) 


3 IS: 831—1966Specification 
for badminton racket 


frames 

(revised) 


IS: 833—1967Specification 
for r b-krutted gents’ 
nylon stockings 


IS: 1072—1967 Specification 
for leaf chains 


IS: 422—1959 Specifics- Th's standard covers the require- 

tion for brass sheet and ments for the following two 
strip for the manufac- grades of brass sheet and srri 
ture of utensils suitable for the manufacture 

of household utensils and gent- 
ral brass hollow-ware : 

(a) Grade CuZn 40(A) for ma¬ 

chine pressing and 

(b) Grade CuZn4o(B) for hand¬ 

worked article. (Price 

Rs. 3*50). 

IS: 83r—1957 Specification This standard covers the mate- 
for badm.nton racket rial, dimensional and cons- 
frames trurtional requirements for 

the badminton racket frames 
(Price Rs. 2-00). 

This standard prescribes the 

constructional details and other 
particulars of rib-kn tied gents’ 
nylon stockings, bleached or 
dyed (Price Rs. 3’50) 

, , This standard coverR the require¬ 

ments for leaf chains and dimen¬ 
sions for clevises and sheaves 
(Price Rs. 3-50, 


IS: 1182—1967 Rccom- IS: 1182—1957 General 
mended practice for radio- recommendations for 
graphic examination of rad ograph.c exarruna- 
fusion welded butt joints tion of fusion welded 
in steel platcs(/irrr revision) joints 


IS: 1576—1967 Specifica¬ 
tion for solid pressboaxd 
for electrical purposes 


This standard prcscr.bes recom¬ 
mendations for the radiogra¬ 
phic examination of fusion 
welded butt joints in steel 
The recommendations are 
based primarily on radiogra¬ 
phic techniques which have 
been used successfully in in¬ 
dustry for examination of wcl- 
dded joints (Price Rs. 6'jo). 

This standard prescribes the re¬ 
quirements and methods of 
sampling and test for solid 
press boards, dyed or of 
natural colour, hat ing a calen¬ 
dered finish and supplied in an 
unimpregnated condition 
(Price Rs. 9 00). 




(I) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


8 TS: 1660—1967 Specifics- IS: i960—1960 Specifics- This standard prescribe* general 

tion for wrought alumi- tion for wrought aluminium requirements, quality of mi¬ 
nium utensils {first revision) utensil# terial and thickness for seme 

of the more commonly used 
wrought aluminium utensilB 
of three classes (Pr ce Rs. 6- 00) 

9 IS: 2186—1967 Dimensions .. This standard covers the dimen- 

riv s on for external sionra for external interference 

interference fit threads fit hreads in the diameter 

range 1 to 150 mm. Price 
Rs. 2 00) 

10 IS: 22J2 —1967 Specifics- IS: 2232—1962 Specifics- This standard prescribes the re- 
tion for slotted and castle tion for slotted and quirements of precision and 

nuts castle nuts. black grades of slotted and 

castle nuts in the following 
diameter ranges ; 

(a) Precision grade 
slotted nuts . 4 to 10 nun 

(i>) Black grade 
slotted nuts T2 to 33 
man 

(c) Precision and 
black grades 12 to too 
castle nuts mm 

(Price Rs. 5-50) 

n IS: 2429—1967 Specifica- IS: 24.29—1963 Speclfi- This standard covers the requirs- 
tion for electric butt wel- cation for electrically ments for electric resistance 

ded steel chain, short link welded mild Btccl chain or flash butt welded steel 

and pitched or calibrated, short-link and pitched chains of the short 1 nk end 

grade 30, for lifting pur- or calibrated for lifting pitched or calibrated types, 

poses (first revision) purposes of grade 30, used for lifting 

and haulage purposes (Puce 
Rs. 5-50) 


ia IS: 2617—1967 Spccifica- 
tionformiflboard, grey¬ 
beard and strawboard 
{first revision ) 

13 IS: 3394—1067 Code of 
practice for fire safety of 
industrial buildings: ge- 
general storage and ware¬ 
housing including cold 
storages 


IS: 2617—1964 Specifi¬ 
cation for millboard 
oard and straw- 


This standard prescribes the re¬ 
quirements for millboard, grey- 
board and strawboard (Pr.cc 
Rs. 3-50) 

This Code covers the essential 
requirements of fire safety of 
all godowns, warehouses and 
outdoor storage sites forming 
part of industrial complexes 
and those rented or owned by 
public and private warehousing 
bodies or individuals (Price 
R_. 4-00) 


14 IS: 3640—1967 Speciflca- 
caTlon for hexagon fit 
bolts 


This standard covers the require¬ 
ments of hexagon fit bolts 1* 
the diameter range io to IIS 
mm (Price Rs. 5-00) 


13 IS: 3753—1967 Methods 
of sampling tor alcoholic 
drinks 


This standard prescribes the 
methods of sampling and cri¬ 
teria for ascertaining the con¬ 
formity of the alcoholic drink* 
to the relevant specifications 
(Price Rs. 2 • 50) 


1* IS: 3961 (Part II)—1967 
Recommended current 
ratings for cables 
Part II PVC-insulated 
and PVC-sheathed heavy 
duty cables 


This standard covers recom¬ 
mended current ratings for PYC- 
insulated and PVC-sheathed 
heavy duty cables covered by 
IS: IJ54 (Part I)—1964 

cither laid direct in ducta or k 1 
air (Pr ce Rs. 8-00) 





I GAZE" E(F INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 /PAUSA 2 , 188 $ [Part It- 


4&I2 


<*) (2) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) 


17 IS: 4002—1967 General re¬ 
quirements and tets for 
audio frequency transfor¬ 
mers and chokes used in 
transistorized equipment 


18 IS: 4004—1967 Applica¬ 

tion guide for non-linear 
resistor type lightning ar¬ 
resters for alternating 
current systems 


19 IS: 4010—1967 Specifi¬ 

cation for sounding pipes 


20 IS: 4021—1967 Specifica¬ 
tion for timber door, win¬ 
dow and ventilator frames 


21 18: 4036—1967 Specifica¬ 
tion for trolleys, patient 


22 IS : 4037—1967 Specifica¬ 
tion for stretchers and 
stretcher carriers 


23 IS: 4101 (Part IT)—1967 

Code of practice for exter- 
, nal facings and veneers Part 

II cement concrete facing 

24 IS: 4106—1967 Specifica¬ 

tion for bunting cloth, 
cotton khadi, dyed 

25 IS: 4107—1967 Specifica¬ 

tion for blanketing cloth 
wool khadi 

i *6 IS: 4110—1967 Glossary of 
terms used in high vacuum 
technology. 


This standard lays down the 
general requirements and 
tests for audio frequency 
transformers (with two or more 
windings) and chokes (with or 
without depolarization), used 
in transistorized circuits em¬ 
ployed in electronic and tele¬ 
communication equipment 
{Price R$, 7'00) 

This guide lays down practices 
for the application of non-linear 
resistor-type lightning arres¬ 
ters, for Ac systems which are 
covered by IS 13070 (Part I)— 
1965 {Price Rs. 6’50) 

This standard specifies the re¬ 
quirements and dimensions for 
various sounding pipes on 
board ships {Price Rs. 5'50) 

This standard lays down the re¬ 
quirements regarding material, 
construction, workmanship and 
sizes of timber door, window 
and ventilator frames generally 
Used in domestic buildings, 
offices, schools and hospitals 
(Price Rs. 5 • 50) 

litis standard specifies the re" 
quirements for fixed-topjpatients, 
trolleys used in hospitals and 
at other similar institutions 
(Price Rs. 2-00) 

This standard specifies the essen¬ 
tial dimensions and other re¬ 
quirements for stretchers and 
stretcher carriers to ensure 
suitability and,usability indiffe¬ 
rent forms of transport thus 
eliminating the need to transfer 
patients from one stretcher to 
another (Price Rs. 2,50) 

This standard covers fixing of 
cement concrete facing which 
may be in the form of precast 
concrete facing blocks or slab 
unitB (Price Rs. 6,00) 

This standard prescribes cons¬ 
tructional details and other parti 
culars of bunting cloth, cotton 
khadi, dyed (Price Rs. 2 ■ 50) 

This standard prescribes the 
constructioiial details and other 
particulars of blanketing cloth, 
wool khadi (Price Rs. 3 ■ 50>; 

This glossary covers definition 
of terms commonly used in the 
field of vacuum technology 
(Price Rs. 12-00) 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 19G7/PAUSA 2, 1889 4813 

(1) (2) (3) (4) 


27 IS: 4114—1967 Coded mark¬ 

ings of values of capaci¬ 
tance and resistacc by 
letters and digils 

28 IS: 4TT6—1907 Specifica¬ 

tion for wooden shelving 
cabinets (adjustable type) 


29 IS: 4119—1967 Snecifica- 
tion for charcoal-burning 
pressing irons 


30 IS: 4122—19G7 Method of 

test for surface softening 
ol natural building stones 
by exposure to acidic 
atmospheres 

31 IS: 414(1—19(17 Application 

guide for voltage trans¬ 
formers 


32 IS: 4148—198; Specifica¬ 
tion for surgical rubber 
gloves 


33 IS: 4152—15167 Specifica¬ 
tion for carbon dioxide 
cylinders for fire fighting 
purposes on hoardship 


34 IS; 4156—1967 Methods 
for sampling of barytes 


This standard prescribes a code 
for marking of values and to¬ 
lerances of capacitors and resis¬ 
tors hv means of letters and 
digits (Price Rs. 2 ■ 50) 

This standard covers the require¬ 
ments for materials, sixes, 
construction and finish of 
adjustable wooden shelving 
cabinets with hinged doors 
(Price Rs. 4 00) 

This standard covers the require¬ 
ments of washerman’s 
(DEIOBI’s), tailors and domes¬ 
tic charcoal-burning pressing 
irons (Price Rs. 3-5°) 

This standard lays down the pro¬ 
cedure for determining the ex¬ 
tent of surface softening taking 
place in natural building stones 
when exposed to acidic at¬ 
mospheres (Price Rs. 2 00) 

This guide covers application of 
voltage transformers for use 
with both electrical measuring 
instruments and meters (mea¬ 
suring voltage transformer) 
and electrical protective devices 
including broken delta voltage 
transformer for the application 
of directional earthfault pro¬ 
tection (protective voltage trans¬ 
formers). Reference has 
also been made to the Use of 
voltage transformer for the 
dual purpose of measurement 
and protection (price Rs. 4-00! 

This standard prescribes the re¬ 
quirements and methods of 
sampling and test for surgical 
rubber gloves of sizes 6, 6j, 7 
7^ and 8 (Price Rs. 3 ■ jo) 

This specification deals with 
light-weight seamless carbon 
dioxide cylinders of capacity 
45 and 67 litres intended for 
fir; fighting purposes on board- 
ships. 

This standard also lays down the 
requirements of the material 
to be used in the manufactuie 
of these cylinders, inspection, 
marking and testing (Price 
R \. 5■00) 

This sian laid lays down the 
procedure to be followed in 
collecting and preparing sam¬ 
ples from a lot in oder to deter¬ 
mine size distribution, moisture 
content and chemical composi¬ 
tion of barytes in bulk (Price 
Rs. 5'jo) 




TTJE GAZETTE Of INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 


(i) (2) 

(3) 

(4) 

33 IS: 4.T69—1967 Method 
for calibration of elastic 
proving device 


This standard prescribes method 
for calibration of elastic proving 
device to be used for static 
verification of testing machines 
{Price Rs. 3- 50) 

36 IS: 4174—1967 Specifica¬ 
tion for typewrilLcr ribbons 


This standard prescribes the 
requirements and the methods 
of sampling and test for inked 
record ribbons made of cot on 
fabric, for UBe on typewriters 
of various types (Price Rs. 2 ■ 50) 

37 IS: 4176—1967 Method 

for simple torsion test of 
aluminium and aluminium 
alloy wire 


This standard prescribes the 
method for simple torsion test¬ 
ing of aluminium and alumi¬ 
nium alloy wire of nominal 
size 0-5 mm and above 

(Price Rs. 2- 00) 

38 IS: 4185—1967 Specifica¬ 
tion for gummed paper 
tapes 


This standard prescribes the re¬ 
quirements and the mtthods of 
sampling and test for gummed 
paper tapes ( Price Rs. 2-30) 

39 IS: 4196—1967 Specifica¬ 
tion for maize seed for pro¬ 
pagation purposes 


This standard prescribes the re¬ 
quirements and the methods of 
sampling and test for maize 
seed (Zea mays Linn.) for pro¬ 
pagation purposes. 

This standard shall apply to the 
seeds of both the open polli¬ 
nated varieties and the hybrids 
(Price Rs. 2-50) 

40 IS: 4197—1967 Specifica¬ 
tion for rice seed for pro¬ 
pagation purposes 


This standard prescribes the re¬ 
quirements and the methods of 
sampling and test for unhusked 
rice seed Oryza saliva L, for 
propagation purposes (Price 
Rs. 2 ■ 00) 

41 IS: 4204—1967 Specifica¬ 
tion for drafting chairs 


This standard specifics require¬ 
ment for chairs for draftsmen 
for us- with drafting tables 
(Price Rs. 2 ■ 00) 

42 IS : 4208—T967 Specifica¬ 
tion tor brush, stencil 

" * 

This standard prescribes the re¬ 
quirements and the methods of 
sampling and test for stencil 
brush (Price Rs. 4- 00) 

43 IS: 4235—-1967 Specifica¬ 
tion for chillies, iresh 


This standard prescribes the re¬ 
quirements and the methods of 
sampling and test for fresh 
chillies (Capsicum annum) 

(Price Rs. 2-50) 

44 IS: 42.13—1967 Specifica¬ 
tion lor mandarins 


This standard prescribes the re " 
quirements and the methods 0 
sampling and test for mandarin 
(Citrus reticulate Blanco.) also 
known as ‘loose-skinntd-or - 
gauges’. (Price Rs. 4 00) 

4 J IS: 4243 — 1967 Specifica¬ 
tion tor needle holder ('Gil¬ 
lies') combined with scissors, 
for plastic surgery 


This standard covers require¬ 
ments for needle holder (Gillies- 
combined with scissors for plas 
tic surgery (Price Rs. 2-50) 



Stc. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 /PAUSA 2 , 1889 4 8 i 5 


Cl) 


U) 


(3) 


( 4 ) 


46 IS: 4250—1967 Specifica- 
tion for domestic electric 
food-mixers (liquidizers, 
blenders and grinders) 


47 IS: 4252—1967 Specifica¬ 
tion for electroplated coat¬ 
ings of gold for decorative 
purposes 


This standard applies to electric 
motor-driven food mixers (liquid 
dizers, blenders and grinders) 
mainly intended for 
domestic use and designed fo r 

operation at voltages not exceed" 
ing 250 volts, Machines com" 
billing all the functions, if 
necessary by replacement of 
attachments, are also covered 
(Price Rs. 5 ■ jo) 


This standard specifics fou r 
grades of electroplated coating 3 
of gold applied to metallic 
surfaces for decorative purposes 
(Price Rs. 2'50) 


48 IS : 4253 (Part I)—1967 
Specification for cork 
composition sheets 
Part I plain cork 


This standard specifies tils require 
ments and methods of test for 
cork composition in the form 
of single layer sheets used for 
gaskets in automotive appli¬ 
cation (Price Rs. 4'00) 


49 IS: 4254—1967 Specifica¬ 
tion for jaw crushers 


50 IS: 4256—1967 Specifica¬ 
tion for hydrated calcium 
sulphate from marine brine 


This standard oevars the jaw 
crushers which are comm inly 
used for crushing rocks (Price 
Rs. 3 ’ 50) 

This standard prescribes the re¬ 
quirements and the methods of 
sampling and test for hydrated 
calcium sulphate from marine 
brine (Price Rs. 2-00) 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available for sale, with the Indian Standards Institution 
Manik Bhavan, 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Mag, New Delhi-i and also its branch offices at (i) Bo mba y 
Mutual Terrace, Sandhurst Bridge, Bombay-7, (if) Third and Fourth Floors, 5 ChowTingTte c 
Approach, Calcutta-13, (iii) Second Floor, Sathyamurthi Bhavan, ?4 General Patters Road, Madras-3 
and ( iv ) 117/418B, Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur. 

[No. MD/i3:2.] 


New Delhi, the 5 th December 1967 

S O. 4563 —In supersession of the then Ministry of C 1 rvnerce and pi la ■, rr v (In dim Styi lltd 
Intitu tion) Notification No. S.O. 1033 dated 27 March 1963 published in the Gazette of 
In fii, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (U), dated 13 April 1963, the In lian Standards Institution 
hereby nilifies, tint the Standard Mirks for Inquiry sups hive been revised. The revised 
designs of the Stnnlir l Mirks together with the title if the releviT In dun Stmdird anl verba* 
description of the designs are given in the Schedule hereto annexed. 



4816 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 2.1, J 9 U 7 /PAUSA 2 , 1889 [Part II- 


These Standard Marks for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
MarksJ Act, 19J2, and the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder, shall come into force with 
effect lrom 1 December 1967 : 

The Schedule 


SI 

Design of 

Product/Class 

No. and Title of the 

Verbal description of the design 

No. 

the Standard 
Mark 

of Product 

Relevant Indian 
Standard 

of the Standard Mark 

(1) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 

( 5 ) 


I, IS : J85 . 

@ Laundry Soaps ft IS : 285—1964 Speci¬ 
fication for laundry 
soaps (revised). 


TyPE 1—GRADE 1 
2 . is • 285 



type i— grade a 


The monogram ol I he Indian 
Standards Institution, consist¬ 
ing of letters ‘ 1 ST, drawn in 
the exact style and relative pro¬ 
portions as indicated in col. (2), 
the number designation of the 
Indian Siandard being super¬ 
scribed on the top side and 
the relevant type and grade 
designations being subscribed 
under the bottom side of the 
monogram as indicated in the 
designs, 


3 - IS : 285 



type 2—grade i 


4. IS : 285 



TYPE 2—GRADE i 
5. IS : 28e 



Type 3 grade i 
6. IS : 285 



TYPE 3- GRADE 2 


[No, MD/i7:z.J 







Sec. 3(h)] I HE GA/ETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 2B. 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


S.O. 4364 —In partial modification of the then Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Indian 
Standards Institution) Notification No. S.O, 879 dated 31st March 1960, publised in the Gazette 
of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii), dated 9th April i960 the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that the Standards Marks for rolled brass plate sheet, strip and foil have been 
revised. The revised design of the Standard Mark together with the title of the relevant Indian 
Standard and verbal description of the design is given in the Schedule hereto annexed, 

This Standard Mark for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
Marks) Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder, shall come into force with 
effect from 23 November 1967 ; 


The Schedule 


SI. Design of Product/Class No. and Title of the Verbal description of the design 
No. the Standard of Product Relevant Indian of the Standard Mark 

Mark Standard 


(t) ( 2 ) (3) ( 4 ) 


(S) 


IS : 410 



Rolled brass IS : 410—1967 Spe- 
platc sheet, cificatton for rolled 

strip and foil. brass plate sheet, 

strip and foil (second 
revision ) 


The monogram of the Indian 
Standards Institution, consist¬ 
ing of letters ‘ 1 ST, drawn in the 
exact style and relative propor¬ 
tions ns indicated in col. (2), the 
number designation of the Indian 
Standard being superscribed on 
the top side of the monogram 
as indicated in the design. 


[No. MD/I7:2.] 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1967 

S.O. 4565.—In partial modification of the Notification Number S-O. 3674, dated 
22nd September, 1967, published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3(ii), 
dated 14th October, 1967, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that, 
with a view to facilitate gradual change over by the Certification Marks Licensees, 
IS : 1977-1962 Indian Standard Specification for structual steel (ordinary quality), 
referred to at Serial No- 2 of the Schedule, shall remain in force up to 31st March, 
1968, both with and Without Amendment No- 1 of August, 1967- After 31st March, 
1968, IS : 1977-1962 with Amendment No. 1 only will be in force- 

[No. MD/13 : 5-] 


S-O. 456C.—The article covered In Licence No. CM/L-1407 held by M/s- Power 
Cables Pvt- Ltd- of Vithalwadi, Near Kalyan (C. Rly.), the details of which are 
Riven In the Notification published under S O. 1531 in the Gazette of India, Part II, 
Section 301) dated 29th April, 1967 has been revised as under with effect from 
16th October, 1967: 

Polythene Insulated anrl PVC Sheathed Cables, Single Core and Twin Flat, 
with Aluminium Conductors; 

Brand:—'INSUL AST' 

[No- MD/BO: 11-A-] 

S.O. 4567-—The articles covered In licence No. CM/L-1431 held by M/s Bombay 
Cable Co- Pvt. Ltd-, Agra Road, Bhandup, Bombay-78, details of which are 
given in the Notification published under S-O- 2769 in the Gazette of India, Part II, 
Section 3(11) dated 12th August, 1967 have been revised as under with effect from 
16th November, 1967: 

Rubber Insulated Cables of the following types : 

(i) VIR Single Core, 250/440 Volts Grade with Aluminium Conductor. 

(ii) VIR Weatherproof, 250/440 Volts Grade with Aluminium Conductor- 
tin) VIR Weatherproof, 650/1 100 Volts Grade with Aluminium Conductor- 
(iv) VIR Braided and Compounded, 650/1 100 Volts Grade with Aluminium 

Conductor, 




4818 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


[Part II— 


tv) V1R Tough Rubber Sheathed, 250/440 Volts Grade with Aluminium 
Conductor. 

(vl) VIR Tough Rubber Sheathed, 050/ 1 100 Volts Grade with Aluminium 
Conductor. 

[No. MD/BO: 11-A-] 



Nets Delhi, the 12th December 1967 


S. 0 .- 4568 - In pursuance of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 8 of the Iniian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, as subse¬ 
quently amended, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that twenty one licences, particulars of which are given in the Schedule 
here t > annexed, have been granted authorizing the licensees to nse the Standard Mark. 

The Schepule 


SI. 

To. 

Licence No. 
and Date 

Period of 
From 

Validity 

To ' 

Name and Address of the 

Licensee 

Article/ Process Covered by 
the Licence 

Relevant Indian Standard 


(2) 

( 3 ) 

(4) 

( 5 > 

(S> 

( 7 ) 

I . 

CM/L-1556 

7-11-1967 

16-11-67 

15-11-68 

M/s. Sehgal Sanitary Fittings Sand-cast brass screw-down bib 
(Pvt.) Ltd., Village Chuharwali, taps 15 mm size and stop taps 
P.O. Adampur, Julhmdur. 15 mm size for water services. 

IS : 781—1959 Specification for 
sand-cast brass screw down bib 
taps and stop taps for water ser¬ 
vices. 


CMiL -1557 

S-n-1967 

16-XI-67 

['’15-11-6'' M/s. Bhutoria Engg. Works Ltd,, 
17, G. T. Road, Baramandir, 
Konnagar, Hooghlly having 
their regd. office at Bhutoria 
House, 8, Lindsay Street, Cal¬ 
cutta-16. 

Sluice valves for water works 
purposess, class 1 up to 65 
mm size. 

IS: 78oE—1966 Specification for 
sluice valves for water works 
purposes {Second revision). 

3 • 

CM/L-1558 

8-11-1967 

8-11-67 

7-11-68 

M/s. Universal Cables Ltd., Satna 
CM. P-). 

Hard-drawn stranded alumini- IS : 398—1961 Specification for 
um and steel cored aluminium hard-drawn stranded aluminium 
conductors for overhead po- and steel cored aluminium con- 
wer transmission purposes. ductors for overhead power 

transmission purposes. 

4 - 

CM/L-1559 

14-11-1967 

16-11-67 

15-11-68 

The Fertilizers & Chemicals 
Travancore Ltd,, P. O. Udyog- 
mandal. At wave (Kerala 1. 

Ammonium chloride, pure 

grade, type 1 (for batteries 
and dry cells). 

IS : 1113—196? Specification for 
ammonium chloride, technical 
and pure (revised). 

5 . 

CM/L-1560 

14-11-1967 

1-12-67 

30-11-68 

M/s. Metro Soap Works, H. Sid - 
daiah Road, Bangalore-2. 

■ Laundry soap, type I, grade 2. 

IS : 285—1964 Specification for 
laundry 1 soap (revised}. 

6. 

CM/L-1561 

14-11-1967 

16-11-67 

15-11-68 

Al/s. Metropole Industries, 

Pradhankhunta, Distt. Dhan- 
bad, Bihar. 

Endrin emulsiiiable concentrates. IS : 1310—195S Specification for 

Endrin emuJsifiable concentrates. 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER. 2 $, 1967 /PAUSA 21 1889 4819 


I 2 

3 

4 5 6 

7 

7. CM/L-i 562 
14-11-1967 

16-11-67 

15-11-68 M/s. Zeedoneil Industries (India) Tea-chest metal fittings. 

Pvt. Ltd., 15 Dun Dum Road, 

Calcutta-30 having their office 
at 20 Strand Road, Calcutta-i. 

IS : 10—1964 Specification for 
plywood tea-chests (second re¬ 
vision). 

8. CM/L-1563 
14-11-1967 

16-11-67 

15-11-68 M/s Rajasthan ?Cable Industries PVC insulated cables with 

Pvt. Ltd., Heavy Industrial Area, aluminium conductors 250/ 
Kota-3 (Rajasthan). 440 and 650/1100 volts grade 

"single core unsheathed and 
PVC sheathed. 

IS : 694 (Part II :—1964 Specifi¬ 
cation for PVC insulated cables 
for voltages up to 1100 volts 
{revised)' 

9. CM/L-1564 
14-11-1967 

1-12-67 

30-11-68 M/s. Harlalka M. C. & Co., Indus- Tea-chest metal fittings. 

‘'trial Estate, Gauhati having 
(their office at Industrial Estate, 

" Bamuni Maidan, Gauhati. 

IS : to—1964 Specification fer 
plywood tea-chests (second rc- 
vision ). 

xo. CM/L-1S65 
14-11-1967 

16-11-67 

15-11-68 M/s. National Trading Corpn., Tea-chest metal fitting'', 

Debendra Mullick Street, Cal¬ 
cutta-12 having their office at 

23 Strand Road, (2nd Floor), 

Calcutta-1. 

IS : 10—1964 Specification for 
plywood tea-chests {second re- 
e isictri). 

11. CM/L-1566 
24-11-67 

1-12-67 

30-11-68 M/s. Keen Pesticides (Pvt.) Ltd., BHC water dispersible powder 
Industrial Estate, Mudical concentrates. 

P.O., {Via) Perumbancor, Kerala 
having their office at Tower 

House, M.G. Road, Ernakulam 
(Kerala). 

IS:562—1962. Specification for 
BHC water dispersible powder 
concentrates. 

12. CM/L-1567 
24-11-1967 

1-12-67 

30-11-68 M/s. Keen Pesticides (Pvt) Ltd, In- DDT water dispersible powder 
dustrial Estate, Mudical P.O., concentrates. 

(Via) Perumbanoor, Kerala 

having their office at Tower 

House, M.G. Road, Ernakulam 
(Kerala). 

IS: 565—1961 Specification for 
DDT water dispersible powder 
concentrates. 

13. CM/L-156S 
24-11-1967 

1-12-67 

30-11-68 M/s. Prakash Insecticides Pvt. Ltd., BHC dusting powders. 

P.O. Nairn, Distt Allahabad. 

IS: 56r—1962 Specification for 
BHC dusting powders {second 
revision). 


4820 the GAZETTE OE INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1907/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 



14 

CM/L-1569 

24-11-1967 

1-12-67 

30-11-68 

M/s. Keen Pesticides (Pvt.) Ltd., Malathion emulsifiable concen- 
Industrial Estate, Mudicai P.O., trates. 

(Vui) Perumbanoor, Kerala 
having their office at Tower 

House, M.G. Road, Ernakulam 
(Kerala). 

IS: 2567-1963 Specification fo r 
malathion emulsifiable concen¬ 
trates. 

15 

CM/L-1570 

24-11-1967 

1-12-67 

30-11-68 

M/s. Engg. Cottage Industries, 7/77 Steel toe caps for miners’ safety 
Tilak Nagar, Kanpur. leather boots and shoes. 

IS: 1989-1967 Specification for 

miners’ safety leather boots and 
shoes ( first revision). 

16 

CM/L-1571 

23-11-1967 

1-9-67 

31-8-68 

M/s. Cachar Plywood Ltd., Goom- Tea-chest plywood panels, 
bira Tea Estate, P.O. Oiivia- 
cherra, Distt. Cachar, Assam. 

IS: 10-1964 Specification for ply¬ 
wood tea-chests (second revision). 

17 

CM/L-1572 

27-11-1967 

1-12-67 

30-11-68 

M/s. Arail Brothers, 14/4 Milestone, Plastic water closets seats and 
Mathura Road, Faridabad having covers, type ‘A’, 

their office at Chawri Bazar, 

Delhi-6. 

IS: 2548E-1966 Specification for 
plastic water-closets seats and 
covers \ revised). 

18 

CM/L-1573 

27-11-1967 

1-12-67 

30-11-6S 

M/s. National Wood Products, Tea-chest plywood panels. 

19/9 Harish Neogi Road, 

Calctttta-4. 

IS: 10-1964 Specification for plywood 
tea-chests 1 second revision1. 

19 

CM/L-1574 

27-11-1967 

1-12-67 

30-11-68 

M/s. P. Kothary & Co. 76/2/2 Tea-chest metal fittings. 

Maharishi Debendra Road, 

Calcutta-6 having their office at 
j6 Nalini Sett. Road, Calcutta-7. 

IS: 10-1964 Specification for ply¬ 
wood tea-chests (second revision). 

20 

CM/L-1575 

27-11-1967 

16-12-67 

15-12-6S 

M/s. J. L. Baiter) cc & Sons, 47-B, Tea-chest metal fittings. 

Joy Mitro Street, Calcutta-5. 

IS: 10-1964 Specification for ply¬ 
wood tea-chests (second revision j. 

21 

CM/L-1576 

27-11-1967 

1-12-67 

30-11-68 

M/s. Sudershan Timber Trading Co., Plywood tea-chest battens. 
Saharanpur Road, P.O. Yamu- 
nanagar, Distt. Amhala. 

IS: 10-1964 Specification for ply¬ 
wood tea-chests (second revision.) 


[No. MD /33 : 16.] 


Sec. 3 (ii )1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23 , 1967 /PAUSA 2 . 1889 



S.O. 4569—la pursuance of sub-regulation (i) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certrflcatior Marks), Regulations, 1955 , as subsequen 
amended, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that seventynine licences, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto ann ;xed, have be 

renewed. 

The Schedule 


SL Licence No. Period of Validity Name and Address of the Licensee Article/Process covered by the Relevant Indian Standard 


No. 

and date 




licence 




From 

To 




( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 



1 CMjL-34 16-11-67 

4 - 11-1957 


2 CM/L-36 16-11-67 

4-11-1957 


3 CM/L-37 16-11-67 

4-H-I957 


4 CM/L-38 16-11-67 

4-11-1957 


5 CM/L-39 16-11-67 

4 - 11-1957 


15 - 11 - 6 S 


15-11-68 


15-11-68 


15-11-6S 


15-11-68 


The National Insulated Cable 
Co. of India Ltd., Shamnagar 
(24 Parganaa, West Bengal) 
having their Regd. Office at 
Nicoo House, Hare Street, 
Calculta-i. 

The National Insulated Cable Co. 
of India Ltd., Shamnagar (24 
I'arganas, W'est Bengal) having 
their Rcgd. Office at Nicoo House, 
Hare Street, Calcutta-i. 

The National Insulated Cable Co. 
of Iniia Ltd., Shamnagar (24 
Parganns, West Bengal) having 
their Regd. Office at Nicco 
House, Hare Street, Cafcutta-I. 


The National Insulated Cable Co. 
of India Ltd., Shamnagar (24 
Parganaa, West Bengal) having 
their Regd. Office at Nicco 
House, Hare Street, Calcutta-i. 

M/s Rashtriya Metal Industries 
Ltd., Kuda Road, Andheri (East), 
Bombay-41. 


Hard-drawn copper solid and 
stranded conductors 


Hard-drawn stranded aluminium 
and steel-cored aluminium con¬ 
ductors for overhead power 
transmission purposes. 

Rub her-insulated cables and 

flexible cords of all types and 
sizes specified in IS : 434 
(Part L-1964 and IS : 434 
(Part IEV1964. 


Cotton-covered round copper 
conductors. 


Wrought aluminium and alu¬ 
minium alloy utensils. 


: 282-1963 Specification for 
hard-drawn copper conductors 
for overhead power transmission 
(retnsed). 


IS : 398-1961 Specification for 
hard-drawn stranded aluminium 
and steel-cored alum in urn. 
conductors for overhead power 
transmission purposes (revise!). 

(t) IS : 434 (/Part L-1964 
Specification for rubber- 
insulated cables w.th 
coppe r con iuctors 

(revised). 

(n) IS : 434 (Part II)- 

1964 Specification for 
rubber-insulated cables 

with aluminium con¬ 
ductors (revised). 

IS : 450-1954 Specification for 
cotton-covered round copper 
conductors (ret Tied). 


IS : 21-1959 Specification fo r 
wrought aluminium an d 

aluminium alloy* for utensils 
(second revision). 


1 


822 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAIJSA 2, 1839 [PARr II- 



6 

CM/L-40 

4-11-1957 

16-11-67 

15-11-68 

M/s Rashtriya Metal Industries 
Ltd., Kurla Road, Andheri (East), 
Bombay-41. 

Wrought almninium and alu- IS : 21-1959 Specification for 

minium alloy sheets, strips wrought aluminium and alu- 

and circles. minium alloys for utensils 

(.second revision). 

7 

CM/L-66 

7-2-195S 

1-12-67 

3011-68 

M/s Sarvashi Woodcrafts (Assam), 
Prop. Jayshree Tea & Industries 
Ltd., P.O. Mariani, District 
Sibsagar. 

Tea-chcst plywood panels. 

IS : 10-1964 Specification for 

plywood tea-chests (second 

revision). 

8 

CM/L-104 
7-10-1958 

1-11-67 

31-1068 

M/s E.I.D. Parry Limited, Nilli- 
kuppam, South Arcot Distt. 
Madras. 

Rectified spirit, grade j. 

IS : 323-1959 Specification for 

rectified spirit (revised). 

9 

CM/L-105 

31-10-195S 

16-11-67 

15-11-6S 

M/s Syrian Plywood Mills, 
Kottayam (.Kerala). 

Tea-chest plywood panels. 

IS : 10-1964 : Specification for 

plywood tea-chests (second 

revision). 

10 

CM/L-107 

4-11-1958 

16-11-67 

15-11-6S 

The Assam Veneer & Saw Aiilis 
Limited, 3 Clive Row, Calcutta-i. 

Tea-chests plywood panels. 

IS : 10-1964 Specification for 

plywood tea-chests {second 

r ciision). 

11 

CM/L-148 

2S-9-I959 

1-12-67 

3011-68 

M/s Flintrock Products Pvt. Ltd., BHC dusting powdeis. 

Belvedere Road, Mazagaon, 

Bombay-to. 

IS 1 561-1962 Specification for 

BHC dusting powders 

(second revision). 

12 

CM/L-150 

15-101959 

l-ir-67 

31-10-68 

The Packing Materials Corpora¬ 
tion, Khed Gaily, Off Gokhale 
Road (South), Bombay-2S. 

Water-ptoofing packing paper. 

IS : 1398-1960 Specification for 

packing paper, waterproof bit¬ 
umen laminated. 

13 

CM/L-225 

16-9-1960 

1-12-67 

30-11-6S 

M/s Veneer Mills Private Ltd., 
Tinsukia, Assam. 

Tea-chest plywood panels. 

IS : 10-1964 Specification for 

plywood tea-chests (second 

revision). 

14 

CM/L-243 

23-11-1960 

1-12-67 

3011-68 

M/s Hindustan Tin Works Pvt. Ltd. 
Ghaziabad (U.P.J. 

18-litre square tins. 

IS : 916-1966 Specification for 

18-litre square tins (revised 1 

15 

CM/L-3 02 
25-5-1961 

1-12-67 

3011-6S 

M/s National Plywood Industries, 

6 Gorapada Sarkar Lane, Calcutta-4. 

Tea-chest plywood panels. 

IS : 10-1964 Specification for 

plywood tea-chests (second 

revision). 

l6 

CM:L-35i 

31-101961 

16-11-67 

15-11-68 

M/s Bharat Wood Works Private 
Ltd., P. O. Dibrugarh. Assam. 

Tea-chest plywood panels. 

IS : 10-1964 Specification for 

plywood tea-chests (second re¬ 
vision). 

(fj IS : 694 (Part I/-1964 Speci¬ 
fication for PVC insulated cables 

17 

CM/L-352 

31-101961 

16-11-67 

15-11-68 

M/s Devidayal Cable Industries 
Ltd., Gupta Mills Estate, Daru- 

PVC insulated cables, 250/440 
and 650/1 100 volts grade. 


khana, Reay Road, Bombay-io. 


■with copper conductors (revised). 


(ii) IS : 694 (Part 11}—1964 Speci¬ 
fication for PVC insulated 
cables with aluminium conductors 
(revised). 




i8 CM/L-385 
14-2-1962 


19 CM/L-423 
19-6-1962 


20 CM/L-461 
28-9-1962 


21 CM/L-464 
24-10-1962 


22 CM/L-467 
30-10-1962 


23 CM/L-470I 
30-10-1962 


24 CM/L-492 
26-12-1962 


25 CM/L-564 
19-7-1963 


16-11-67 


1-12-67 


16-10-67 


16-11-67 


16-11-67 


1-11-67 


1-12-67 


1-12-67 


15-11-68 M/s Assam Saw Mills and Timber Tea-chest plywood panels- IS 110-1964 Specification f°C 

Co. LuL, 62, Ballygunge Cir- playwood tea-chests (Secon? 

cular Road, (1, Rainey Park), rei-ision) 

Calcutta-19 (Factory at Namsoi, 

NEFA). 

30-11-68 Tile Vikon Electrical Works (P) Semi-enclosed electric fuses, 15 IS : 2086-1963 Specification for 
Ltd., G. T. Road, Goraya, amp, 250 volts, with HC and carriers and bases used in 

(Punjab). MEM types fuse bases and rewirable type electric fuses up 

carriers. to 650 volts (recited). 

15-10-68 M/s Geo Industries and Insecticides Endrin emulsrfiable concentrates. IS : 1310-1958 Specification for 
(India) Pvt. Ltd., Field No. 82/3 endrin emulsifiable concentrates, 

(a) Sathankadu, Kaladipet, 

Madras-19. 

15-11-68 M/s Geo Industries and Insecticides BHC water dispersible powder IS : 562-1962 Specification for 
(India) Pvt. Ltd, Field No. 82/3 concentrates. BF1C water dispersible powder 

(a) Sathankadu, Kaladipet, concentrates (revised). 

Madras-19. 

15-11-68 M/s Shalimar Tar Products (1935) Bitumen felts for water-proofing IS : 1322-1959 Specification for 
Ltd., 26 Lake Road, Bhandup, and damp-proofing, type 3, bitumen felts for water-proofing 

Bombay-78 having their office grades 1 and 2. and damp-proofing, 

at 6 Lyons Range, Calcutta. 


31-10-68 M/s Hind Tin Industries, 107A, 18-litre square tins 
Raja Dinendra Street, Calcutta- 
6 . 


IS : 916-1966 Specification for 
18-litre square tins (revised). 


30-11-68 Mrs Alma Electrical Corpn. (P) Ltd., Metal dad switches, 15 amp, IS : 1567-1960 Specification for 
Goria Mathurapur Road, Goria, 250 volts, with MEM type metal clad switches (current 

24 Parganas having their office fuse base and carrier. rating not exceeding 100 amperes), 

at 2 India Exchange Place (Second 
Floor), Calcutta-1. 

30-11-68 M/s Associated Tube Wells (India) Flushing cisterns, high level, i2'5 IS : 774-1964 Specification for 
Pvt. Ltd., Modinagar having their litres capacity and 15 litres flushing cisterns for w'ater-closets 
office at 12 Scindia House, New capacity. and urinals (valveless siphonic 

Delhi type) (second revision). 



4824 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 



26 CM/L- 5 R 9 
l4-10-ig63 


27 CM/1,-591 
21-10-1963 


28 CM/-592 

21-10-1963 


29 CM/L-593 
28-10-1963 


30 CM/-L-595 
30-10-1963 


16-11-67 


15-H-6K M/s PVC Wires and Cables Pvf. 

Ltd., i, Ishan Chos.h Road, Cal¬ 
cutta-8. 


Type Voltage 
PVC insula- grade 
ted Cable 


Conductor fii IS :694 ( Part I 3 —1964 Speci- 
lication fur PVC insulated 
cables with rapper conductors 
■ - (revisedI 


(i) Single 250/440 Copper or 
(unsheathed) & 650/ aluminium 
1100 
Volts 
grade 

i'ii) Fiat twin 250/440 
with or with volts 
out earth 
continuity 
cond uctor 
(PVC 

sheathed! 


Copper(ii) 1.8:694 (Part 111 —1964 Scpeci- 
only fication foi PVC insultated rubles 

with aluminimum conductors 
■'revised). 


16-11-67 


X5-H-6S M 's Shaliroar Tar Products (1935) Bitumen (Plastic) for 
Limited, 26 Lake Road, Bhandup proofing purposes. 
Bombay-71 having their office at 
16 Bank Street, Bombay-1 


water- 18:1580-1960 Specification for 
bitumen (plasticl for water¬ 
proofing purposes. 


16-11-67 I5-U-6S 


16-11-67 15-11-68 


The Metal Box Co. of India Ltd, 
Jeppo, Mangalore, having their 
office at Barlow House, 599, 
Chowringhee Road, Calculta-20 


iS-litre square tins 


M/s Shalimar Tar Products(1935) Preformed fillers for expansion 18:1838-1961 Specification for 
Limited, 26 Lake Road, Bhan- joint in concrete non-extrud- preformed fillers for expansion 

dup, Bombav-71 having their ing and resilient type (bitumen- joint in concrete non-extruding 

office at r6 Bank Street, Bombay pregnated fibre) and resilient type (bitumen- 

—r. impregnated fibre) 


IS 1916-1966 Specification fo r 
18-litre square tins {revised'. 


1-12-67 3011-68 M/s Pesticides India, Udaisagar Endrin emulsifiable concentrates ISU310195S Specification for 

Road, Udaipur. endrin emulsifiable concen¬ 

trates. 


31 CM/-L-597 
30-10-1963 


1-12-67 30-11-68 M/s Camlin Private limited. Ink , drawing, water-proof, black 18:789-1955 Specification for 

Kondivata, Near Marol Bazar, ink, drawing, water-proof, black. 

Andheri-Kurla Road, Bombay- 
59 having their office at 210 Lady 
Jamshedji Road, Bombay-16. 


Sec, 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23 , 1967 /PAUSA 2 , 1889 4825 




32 CM/L- 59 S 

7-11-1963 


33 CM-'L- 7 So 
10-9-1964 


34 CM/L-800 

12-10-1964 

35 GM/L-801 

20-10-1964 

36 CM/L-802 

23-10-1964 


r-12-67 30-11-6S M/s. Skytone Electricals flndia), 

43 Industiral Area, Faridabad 
having their Head Office at 
2655 Sadar Thana Road, 
Delhi-6. 


(1) Single core (unsheathed) 
PVC insulated cables, 250/ 
440 and 650/1100 V with 
eopper or aluminium cord ; 

(2) Single core (PVC sheathed) 
PVC insulated cables, 250/ 
440 V with copper or alu¬ 
minium conductors: 

(.3) Single core (PVC sheathed; 
PVC insulated cables. 650/ 
1100 V with copper conductors 
only and 

(4) Twin twisted (unsheathed') 
flexible cords, 250/440 V with 
copper conductors only. 


(t) IS:694(Part I)-1964 Specifica¬ 
tion for PVC insulated cables 
(for voltages up to 1100 V) 
with copper conductors (revised). 

(til IS:694 (Part ID-1964 Speci¬ 
fication for PVC insulated 
cables (for voltages up to 
1100 V) with aluminium con¬ 
ductors (revised). 


16-11-67 

15-11-68 

M/s. S.R. Sharma &- Sons, 140 
Rai Bahadur R.N. Goha Road, 
Dam Dam, Calcutta-28, having 
their office at 85 Netaji Subhas 
Road, Calcutta. 

Brass ball valves (horizontal 
plunger type) 1 j mm size. 

18:1703-1962 Specification for 

ball valves (horizontal plung for 
type) including floats for water 
supply purposes. 

I-n-67 

31-10-68 

M/s. Flintrock ProductsJPvt. Ltd. 
Belvedere Road, Mazagaon, 
Bombay-10. 

DDT dusting powders 

18:564-1961 Specification 

DDT dusting powders. 

far 

1-12-67 

30-11-6S 

M/s. Satellite Engineering Ltd., 
P.O. Maize Products, Kath- 
wada, Ahmedabad-2. 

Starters for fluorescent lamps, 
20/40/80 watts rating. 

IS :22i5-i963 Specification 
starters fox fluorescent 
(revised). 

for 

lamps 

16-11-67 

15-11-6S 

M/s. K. L. Malhotra Brothers, 
WX-83 Basti Nau, Jullundur 

Badminton Racket frames of 
the following varieities : 

IS: 831-1966 Specification 

badminton racket frames 

for 

(re- 


City. 


Grade I 


(i) Viking Maibro, fitted with 
steel shaft. 

(a) Viking Maibro, fitted with 
wooden shaft (Champion 
Model). 


2826 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/PAUSA 2 , 1889 [Pa»t II- 



37 CM/L-823 

2-11-1964 


33 CM/L-S24 
2-11-1964 


39 CM/L-S31 
2-11-1964 


4c CM/L-832 
2-11-1964 


41 CM 1L-83 4 
9-11-1964 


fia) The Rock, fitted with steel i 

shaft. ! 

(tv) Delux Malbro, fitted with 
wooden shaft 'full overlays) 

Grade 2 

(ti Blue Malbro (half overlays! 

(a") Master (half overlays), 
i in', Senorita (half overlays). 

1-12-67 30-11-68 M/s. Swadeshi Industries Ltd., Structural steel fstandard qua- 18:226-1962 Specification for r 

33 Netaji Subhas Road, Cal- lityi for sections up to 25 mm structural steel (standard qua_ 

cutta. ' dia or square and other sec- lity) (third revision). 

tions of equivalent area. 

1-12-67 30-11-68 M/s. Swadeshi Industries Ltd., Structiire-.il steel (ordinary qua- 18:1977-1962 Specification for 

33 Netaii Subhas Road, Cal- lityi for sections up to 25 mm structural steel (ordinary qua- 

cutta. dia or square and other sec- lityi. 

tions of equivalent are*. 

16-5 r-67 . 15-11-68 M/s. Agarwal Hardware Works Structural steel (standard qua- IS .'226-1962 Specification. for 

_ Private Ltd., 167. Chittaranjan lityi, tested steel rounds up structural steel (standard qua- 

' Avenue, Calcutta. to I" (25 mm) dia and flats lityi (third reinsum). 

up to I’yr to z’yV 
1 25 mm 6 mm to 50 mmx 
12 ’7 mm) and sections of 
equivalent area. 

16-11-67 15-11-68 M/s Agarwal Hardware Works Pvt, Structural steel (ordinary quail- 18:1977-1962 Specification for 

Ltd, 167, ChittaraDif 11 Avenue, tyi, tested steel rounds up to structural steel (ordinary quality) 

Calcutta- 1 ’ I.25 mm) dia and flats up to 

i*x 1/4' to 2' , 1/2' (25 mm 
6mm to 50 mm.- 12 7 mm) 
and sections of equivalent area- 

1-12-67 30-11-68 M/s Special Steels Limited, Dat- ;.iccl-wite lu tie cme of steel- IS: 398-1961 SrecLcaticn for 

tapara Road, BorivJi i.hasl;, cored aluminium conductors hard-drawn stianded alr- 
Bombay-92 for overhead power trans- miniim end steel-cored alu- 

.. ission purposes minium conductors for overhead 

power transmission purposes 
(. revised ) 


Cfi 

w 

n 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/EAUSA 2, 1889 4827 



42 CM/L-840 
23-J [-1964 


1-12-67 30-11-68 


43 


44 


CM/L-S73 

2S-11-1964 


CM/L-874 

28-11-1964 


1-12-67 


30-11-68 


1-12-67 30-11-68 


M/s Shamsher Sterling Cable Type Voltage Conductor 
Corpn. Ltd, Plot No. 7, S.S.I., grade 

Kirol, Ghatkopar, Bombay-77, (a) P VC insulated cables 


having their Regd offioe at Vas 
wani Mansions, Dinsha Vacha 
Road, Bombay-i. 


(i) Single 250/440V & 

core 650/1100 V 

(unshea¬ 
thed) 

(ii) Single 250/440V & 

core 650/1100V 

(PVC 

sheathed. 

(b) Pl 'C flexible Cords 

(iii) Twin 250/440 V 
twisted 

(unshea¬ 

thed) 

(iv) PVC 250/440 V 
insula¬ 
ted and 

sheathed 

M/s National Co. Ltd, Rajgung, Jute hessian 
Andul, Howrah, having their 
office at 18A Brabourne Road, 

Calcutta-1 

M/s Natioral Co. Ltd, Rajgung, Jute sackings 
Andul, Howrah, having their 
office at 18A Brabourne Road, 

Calcutta-i 


Copper 

or 

Alumi¬ 

nium 

Alumi¬ 

nium 

only 


45 


CMfL-875 

28-11-1964 


t-12-67 30-11-68 M/s Angus Co. Ltd, P.O. Angus, Jute hessian 

Hooghly having their Office at 
3 Clive Row, Calcutta-r 


(i) IS: 694 (Part I)—1964. Speci¬ 
fication for PVC insulated 
cables (for voltages up to 1 100 
V) with copper conductors 
(revised) 

(ii) IS: 694 (PartIIJ-1964 

Specification for PVC insulated 
cables (for voltages up to 1100 V 
with aluminium conductors 
(revised). 


Copper 

only 


Copper 

only 


IS' 2S1S-1964 Specificatitn 
Indian hessian. 


for 


for 

for 


ISH943-1964 Specification 
A-twil jute bags (revised < 

IS: 2S74-1964 Specification 
heavy' cee jute bags. 

IS: 2875-1964 Specification 
jute com socks. 

IS: 2566-1965 Specification for 
B-twill jute has (revised). 

IS: 2818-1964 Specification fo r 
Indian hessian. 


4828 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23. 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 [Part II- 



46 CM/L-876 
28-11-1964 

1-12-67 

30-11-68 

47 CM/L-879 
28-11-1964 

1-12-67 

30-11-6S 

4* CM/L-880 

28-11-1964 

1-12-67 

30-11-68 

49 CM/I.-881 
28-11-1964 

1-12-67 

30-11-68 

& CM/L-S82 

28-11-1964 

1-12-67 

30-11-68 

s i CM/L-893 

28-11-1964 

1-12-67 

30-11-6“ 


M/s Angus Co. Ltd., P.O. Angus, Jute sackings] 
Hooghly naving their Office at 3, 

Clive Row, Calcutta-1 


M/s Titagnur jmcrauuij w ,- 

P.O. Titaghur, 24 Parganas 
having their Office at 3, Clive 
Row, Calcutta-1 

M/s Titaghur Jute Factory Co. Ltd., Jute sackings 
P.O. Titaghur, 24 Parganas 
having their Office at 3, Clive 
Row, Calcutta-1 


M/s Victoria Jute Co. Ltd., P.O. Jute hessian 
Telmipara. Distt Hooghly, 
having their Office at 3, Clive 
Row, Calcutta-i 

M/s Victoiia Jute Co. Ltd., P.O. Jute sackings 
' Telinipara. Distt Hoogly, 
having their Office at 3 > Clive 
Row, Calcutta-1 


/s Hukumchand jute c lu , . 

47, Ghosltpara Road, Halisahar 
having their Office at 9, Bra- 


IS: 1943-1964 Specification for 
A-twill jute bags (revised) tH 
IS: 2874-1964 Specification for 
heavy cee jute bags 
IS: 2875-1964 Specification for 
jute com sacks 

IS: 2566-1965 Specification for 
B-twill jute bags ( revised) 

IS: 3794-1966 Specification for 
Liverpool twill (L-twill) bags 
IS: 2818-1964 Specification fo r 
Indian^ hessian 


IS: 1943-1964 Specification for 
A-Twill jute bags ( revised) 

IS: 2874-1964 Specification for 
heavy cee jute bags 
IS: 2875-1964 Specification for 
jute corn sacks pS 

18:2566-1965 Specification for B- 
twill jute bags ( revised ) 4 

IS: 3794-1966 Specification for 
Liverpool twill (L-twill) bags 
IS: 2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian 


IS: 1943-1964 Specification for 
A-twill jute bags ( revised ) 

IS: 2874-1964 Specification for 
heavy' cee jvite bags 
IS: 2875-1964 Specification for 
iute corn sacks 

IS: 2566-1965 Specification for 
B-twill bags ( revised ) 

IS: 3794-1966 Specification for 
Liverpool twll (L-twill) bags 

IS: 2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian 


8 ? 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23. 1%7/PAHSA 2, 1889 



if 2 3 


5 


6 


7 


M fffi/L-894 
ti.lx-1964 


1-12-67 30-11-68 M/s Hukamchand Jute Mills Ltd., Jute sackings'] 

47, Ghoshpara Road, Halisahar 
having their Office at 9, Brabourne 
Road, Calcutta-i J 


(3 #M/L-895 1-12-67 ; 30-11-68 

*8-11-1964 


M/s Anglo-India Jute Mills Co., Jute hessian 
Ltd., (Lower Mill), P. O. Jagatdal, 

24 Parganas having their Office 
at 31, Netaji , Subhas Road, 

Calcutta-1 


IS : 1943-1064 Specification for 

A-twill jute bags (remised) 

IS : 2874-1964 Specification far 
heavy cee jute bags 

IS : 2875-1964 Specification far 

jute corn sacks 

'IS : 2566-1965 Specification far 

B-twill jute bags (revised) 

IS : 3794-1966 Specification far 

Liverpool twill (L-twill) bags 

IS : 2811-1964 1 Specification^ for 
Indian hessian 


14 CM/L-896 t-12-67 30-11-68 M/s Anglo-India Jute Mills Co. Jute saokinjs 

tS^H-1964 Ltd., (Lower Mill), P. O. Jagatdal, 

24 Parganas having their Office 
at 31, Netaji Subhas Road, Cal¬ 
cutta- 1. g 


(5 fM/L-897 £1-12-67 

iS-x1-1964 | 


f 30-11-68 M/s Anglo-India Jute Mils Co. Jute hessisua 
Ltd., (Middle Mill), P.O. Jagat¬ 
dal, 24 Parganas having their 
Office at 31 Netaji Subhas Road, 

Calcutta-1. 


IS : 1943-1964 Specification fo r 
A-twill jute bags (remised) 

IS : 2874-1964 Specificatio* for 
heavy cee jute bags 

IS : 2874-1964 Specification for 
jute com sacks 

IS : 2566-1965 Specification for 
B-twill jute bags (revised) 

IS : 3794-1966 Specification for 
Liverpool twill (L-twill) bags 

IS : 28x8-1964 Speclficatiou for 
Indian hessian. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23 , 1967 /PAUSA 2 , 1889 [Part II- 


56 GM/L-S5J 1-12-67 30-11-64 i M/s Anglo-India Jute Mills Co. Juta sackings 

24-11-1964 Ltd., (Middle Mill), P. O. 

Jagatdal, 24 Parganas having 
their Office at 31 Netiji Subhas 
Road, Calcutta-1 


57 CM/L-903 
28-11-1964 


5* CM/L-904 
E8-11-1964 


1-12-67 30-11-68 M/s Gagalbhai Jute Mills (P) Ltd., Jul» hessian 

Siiberia, P. O. Ulberia, Howrah 
having their Office, at 18, NeUji 
Subltas Road, Calcutta-1 

1-12-67 3*-n-6l , M/s Gagalbhai Jute Mills (P) Ltd, Jute sackings 

Sijbena, P. O. Ulberia Howrah 
having their Office at 18, Netaji 
Subhas Road, Calcutta-i 


59 CM/L-911 

24-11-1964 


6 a ^M/L-912 
28-11-1964 


[1-12-67 ' 30-ft-6I M/s Shree Gourishankar Jute Jute hessiam 

Mils (P) Ltd., Ghoshpara Read, 

P. O. Garulia, Sumnagar, 24 
Parganas having their Office 
■t 10, Clive Row, Calcutta-i 

1-12-67 30-11-64 M/s Shree Gourishankir Jute Jute sackings 

Mills (P) Ltd, Ghoshpara Road, 

P.O. Garulia, Sumnagar, 24 
Parganas having their Office at 
10, Clive Row, Calcutta.-! 


IS : 1943-1964 Specification for 
A-twill jute bags (revised) 

IS : 2874-1964 Specification for 
heavy cee jute bags 

IS : 2875-1964 Specification for 
jute com sacks 

IS : 2566-1965 Specification for 
B-twill jute bags (reviled) 

IS : 3794-1966 Specification for 
Liverpool twill (L-twill) bags 

IS r 2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian 


IS : 1943-1964 Specification fed 
A-twiil jute bags (revised) 

IS : 2874-1964 Specification foe 
havy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875-1964 Specification for 
jute com sacks 

IS : 2566-1965 Specification for 
B-twill jute bags (revised) 

IS : 3794-1966 Specification for 
Liverpool twill (L-twill) bags 

IS : 2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian 


IS : 1943-1964 Specification for 

A-twill jute bags (revised) 

IS : 2874-1964 Specification for 
heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875-1964 Specification for 

jute corn sacks 

IS : 2566-1965 Specification for 

B-twill jute bags (revised) 


Sia. 8(ii)] TH* •AZfcTTE OF INBlA: BEClMBtR fit, ISflJ/PAUSA 2 , 1 US 



7 


3 


4 


5 


6 


Cl CM/L-927 
28-11-1964 


1-12-67 30-11-68 Mi's Champdany Jute Co. Ltd., Jute heiisian 

(Wellington Jute), G. T. Road. 

Rishra. Hooghly, having their 
Office at 2, Metaii Subhas Road, 

Calcutta-1 


62 CM/-L-928 1-12-67 30-11-68 M.'s Champdany Jute Co. Ltd., Jute sacking 

28-11-1964 fWillingoton Jute), G. T. Road, 

Rishra, Hooghly, having 
their Office at 2, Netaii Suhhas 
Road, Calcutta-i 


63 CM/L-939 
2S-11-1964 


*4 CM/L-940 
28-11-1964 


1-12-67 30-11-68 The General Industrial Society Jute hessian 

Ltd., Gondafpara, Hooghly hav¬ 
ing their Office at 15. India Ex¬ 
change Place, Calcutta-i 

1-12-67 30-11-68 The General Industrial Society Jute sackings 

Ltd. Gondalpara, Hooghly 
having their Office at 15, India 
Exchange Place, Calcutta-i 


65 CM/L 95 S 
28-U-1964 


1-12-67 30-11-68 M/s Bharat Jute Mills, Ltd., Jute hessian 

Dasnagore, Howrah having their 
Office at 29 Strand Road, Cal¬ 
cutta- 1 


IS : 2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian 


tJ 


]l 

f: 


IS : 19J.3-1964 Sp-eciafication for 
A-twill jute bags prevised) 

IS : 287.1-1964 Specification for 

heat? cee jute bags 
IS : 2875-1964 Specification for 
iute com sacks 

IS : 2566-1965 Specification for 

B-twill jute bags (revised'' 

IS : 3794-1966 Specification for 
Liverpool twill (L-twill) bags 

IS : 281S-1964 Specification, for 

Indian hessian 


| 

1 

t 

i 


IS : 1943-1964 Specification for 
A-twill jute bags (revised) 

IS : 2874-1964 Specification for 

heavy cee jute bags 
IS ■. 2875-1964 Specification for 

jute com sacks 

IS : 2566-1966 Specification for 

B-twill jute bags (revised') 

IS : 3794-1966 Specification for 

Liverpool twill (L-twill) bags 

IS : 2818-1964 Specification for 

Indian hessian. 



-i 


4832 THF. GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 . I % 7/PAL.5 A %, 1889 



66 CM/L -956 
28-11-1964 


1-12-67 30-11-68 M/s. Bharat Jute Mills Ltd, Dana- Jute sackings 

gore, Howrah having their 
Office at 29, Strand Road, Cal¬ 
cutta- 1. 


67 CM/-L-957 
28-11-1964 


68 CM/L-95S 
28-11-1964 


1-12-67 30-11-68 M/s Prabhartak Jute Mills Ltd., Jute hessian. 

Kamarhatti, B. T. Road, 24, 

. Parganas having their Office at 

5, Synagogue Street, Calcutta-1. 

1-12-67 30-11-68 M/s Prabartak Jute Mills Ltd. Jute sackings 

Kamarhatti, B. T. Road, 24, 

Parganas having their Office at 
5, Synogogue Street, Calcutta-!. 


69 CM/L-959 
28-11-1964 


70 CM/L-960 
28-11-1964 


1-12-67 30-11-6? M/s. Reliance Jute Mills Co. Ltd., Jute hessian. ' 

Rly. Station Kaniknarrah, P.O. 

Bhatpara, 24, Parganas having 
their Office at 9, Braboume 
Road, Calcutta-1. 

1-12-67 30-11-68 M/s. Reliance Jute Mills Co. Ltd., Jute packings. 

Rly. Station Kankinarrah, P.O. 

Bhatpara, 24, Parganas having 
their Office at 9, Brabourne Road, 

Calcutta-1. 


71 CM/L-961 1-12-67 30-11-68 

28-11-1964 


M/s. Kanoria Co. Ltd., Chengail Jute hessian 
Rly. Station, P.O. Chakasi, 

Howrah having their office at 
18, Mullick Street, Calcutta-7. 


IS : 19.13:-i964 Specification for 
A-twill jute bags (revised). | 

IS : 2874-1964 Specification 

for heavy cee jute bags. 

IS : 2875-1964 Specification for 
jute corn sacks. 

IS : 2566-1065 Specification for 
B-twill jute bags ( revised ) . 
18:2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian. 


IS : 1943:1964 Specification for 
A-twill jute bags ( revised'). 

IS : 2874-1964 Specification for 
heavy cee j te bags. 

IS : 2875-196 4 Specification for 
ju t e corn sacks. 

IS: 2556-1965 Specification for B- 
twill jute bags (revised). 

IS: 3794-1966 Specification for 
Liverpool twill (L-twill) bags 

IS: 2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian. 


IS: 1943-1964 Specification for 
A-twill jute bags (revised). 

IS: 2874-1964 Specification for 
heavy cee jute bags. 

IS: 2875-1964 Specification for jute 
corn sacks. 

IS: 2566-1965 Specification for 

B-twill jute bags (revised). 

IS 3794-1966 Specification fox 
Liverpool twill (L-twill) bags. 

IS: 2818-1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian. 


Sfc. 4(u) 1 THE GAZETTE, Of INDIA: DECEMBER 23, I967/PAUSA 2, 18S9 



( 3 ) (4) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


(7) 


72 CM/L-9 62 
25-11-1944 


73 CM/L-1126 
12-1-19*5 


74 CM,L-n;8 
28-10-19*5 


[1-12-67 [30-11-68 M.-s. Kancria Co. Ltd., Cbengal Jute sackings. 

Rly. Station, P.O. Chakasi, 

Howrah having their Office at 
18. Mullick Street, Clacutla-7. 


IS: 1943-1964 Specification for 

A-twill jute bags (revised). 

IS : 2S74-1964 Specification for 
heavy cee iute bigs. 

IS: 2875-1964 Specification"’ for 
jute com sacks. 

IS: 2566-1965 Specification for 
L B-twill jute bags (revis&d). 


16-11-67 15-11-68 Tie Fcit Wtilitm Co. Ltd. (Sieel (i) Steel wire tcpes fcr general (i) IS: 2266-1963 Specification for 

Wire & Rope Division), 6/A, engineering purposes. ' steel wire ropes for general 

G-T. Road, Konnagar, Distt. engineering purposes. 

Hooghly, West Bengal having (ii) Round straa* galvanised (ii) 18:2581-1963 Specification for 
their Regd. office at 14, Netaji steel wire ropes for shipping’ round strand gaivsnised steel 

SubbasRosd, Clacutta-i. purposes.. wire ropes for shipping purposes- j 


1-11-67 '31-10-68 M ?. Kanpur Pesticides, Msgar- BHCj dusting' powdered 

ware, Distt. Unnao having their 
Office at 16/78, Civil Lines, 

Kanpur. 


IS: 561-1962 Specification fo r 
BHC dusting 'powders. 


75 CM/L-1160 
20-101965 


16-11-67 15-11-6K M,s. Bharat Pulverising Mills Pvt. Malathioiidusting powders. 

Ltd., Hexamar House, 28, 

Sayani Road, Bombay-28. 


IS: 2568-1963 Specification fo 1 
malathion dusting pawders. 


76 CWjL-1163 
4-11-19*5 


16-11-67 


[15-13-68 The Leads Aieter Mfg. Co. Ltd., Water meters (domestic type). 
Mathuradas Mills Compound, 15 mm size. 

D elisle Road, Lower Parel, 

Bombay-13 having their Office at 
gateway Building, Apollo Bunder 
Bombay-1. 


IS: 779-1965 Specification for 
water meters (domestic type) 
(,second revision). 


77 CM/L-1342 
30-9-196* 


l-l2-*7 \30-ti-*X M/s. Swan India Private Ltd., Dyefbased fountain pea inks IS: 1221-1957 Specification for 

12/1, Mathura Road, P.O. Amur (bine, green and re*). fountain pen inks (blue, green, 

Nagar, Faridsbad. violet, black ani ted). 


4834 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1967/BAUSA 2, 1889 [Baht it- 




ti <M/L-i 358 
966 


t9 «M/L-i359 

*©-11-1966 


[-12-67 30-11-68 M/s. Shamsher Sterling Cable Weather proof polythene insu- IS: 3035 (Part II)—1965 Spea- 

Corpm Ltd., Plot No. 7, S.S.I. lated, taped, braided and fication for thermo-plastic insu- 
Kirol, Ghatiopar, Bombay-77 compounded cables with lated weather-proof cabin, poly- 
having their Regd. Office at aluminium conductors of the thene insulated, taped,, braided 

Vaswani Mansions, Dinsha follow ing types : and compounded. 

Vacha Road, Bomay-i, 

(i) Single core, 250/440 V 
grade. 

(ii) Twin core, 250/440 V grade; 
and 

(iii) Signle core, 650/1 100 
Volts, grade 


(t-12-67 


f 30-11-68 


M/s. Skytone Electricals (India), Weatherproof polythene : insu- 
43, Industrial Area, Faridabad lated, taped, braided and coin¬ 
having their Head Office at pounded cables with alumi- 
2655, Sadar Thana Road, Delhi-6. nium conductors of the follow¬ 
ing 

(i) Single core, 250/440 V grade; 


IS: 3035 (Part II)-1965 : Spadica- 
tion for thermoplastic insulated 
weather-proof cables, polythene 
insulated, taped, braided and 
campounded. 


(ft) Single core, 650/1100 V grade; 


(tit) Twin core, 250/440 Y grade. 


[No. MD/33 :i 6/A.] 
(Dr.) SADGOPAL, 

Dy. Director 


FEINTED OT INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, COVBRNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW nu.rrr and published BY the MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1967 


4 > 

CO 

u> 

CA 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 23, 1907/PAUSA 2, 1889 




