रजिस्ट्री सं . ग . ( ग . एन . )-72 


REGISTERED No. D. ( D. N.)-75 . 


, 


L 


TAN 


च 


1 . 1 


HI 


YLLAMA 


. . 


. . . 


. 


. 


. 


म 


EM.. 


. . 


. 


" 


मा 


" 


भारकाराजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


असाधारण 
EXTRAORDINARY 

भाग - 1 
PART I - Section 1 

प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

नई दिल्ली , शुक्रबार , अप्रैल 12, 1085/ चैत्र 22, 1907 
NEW DELHI , FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1985/ CHAITRA 22, 1907 


सं081 ] 
No. 811 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या हो जाती हैं जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में 

रखा जा सके 
Separate Paging is given to this part in order that it may be filed as a 

separate compilation 


1 


2 


290 परिशिष्ट -19 

परा - 17 
ग्यारहवीं पंक्ति 


ग्यारहवीं पंक्ति में , " ( + ) " 
के चिल को शुद्ध करके 
" ( च ) " के रूप में पढ़ा 

जाएगा 


बाणिज्य मंत्रालय 

मायात व्यापार नियंत्रण 
सार्वजनिक सूचना मं . 1 आई . टी सी . ( पो . एन . )/ 85 --- 88 

नई दिल्ली, 12 अप्रैल , 1985 
विषय : - - अप्रैल 1985 --मार्च 1988 की आयात एवं निर्यात नीति । 

फा . सं . आई . पी . स ./ 3/ 17/ 85-----इस सार्वजनिक सूचना के 
अनुबन्ध में आयात एवं निर्यात नीति ( खण्ड - 1 ) , 1985- 88 दी गई है । 

2. नीति में नीचे दिए गए उपयुक्त स्थानों पर निम्नलिखित शुद्धि 
कर दो समप्ती जाएगी : 
कम आयात एवं 

शुद्धि 
सं . निर्यात नीति 
___ 1985 - 88 ( खण्ड 
__ 1 ) को पृष्ठ सं . 


325 परिशिष्ट -21 के दूसरी पंक्ति में “( घ ) " शब्द की 

लिए अनुबन्ध-2 “ ( 5 ) " के रूप में शुद्ध करके पढ़ा 
टिप्पणी : ( 1 ) जाएगा । 


संदर्भ 


प्रकाश चन्द जैन, मुख्य नियंत्रमा, आयात निर्यात 


3 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
IMPORT TRADE CONTROL 


( 1 ) 


122 


परिशिष्ट 


PUBLIC NOTICE NO . 1 - ITC(PN)/ 85 ---88 

New Delhi, the 12th April. 1985 


वर्तमान प्रविष्टि से . ( 107 ) 
के बाद निम्नलिखिन प्रविष्टि 
शामिल की भाएगी . - - 
" ( 107-क ) कलर टी . वी , 
पिक्चर ट्यून्ज उन्हें छोड़ 
कर जो परिशिष्ट - 6 सूची 
8 के भाग-1 में उल्लिखित 


Subject : Import and Expart Policy for April 1985 - March 

__ 1988 


F. No . IPC/ 3 /17/ 85 : The Import and Export Policy 
( Volume I), 1985 - 88 is contained in the Annexure to this 
Public Notico . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART 1 - - Sec . 1] 


2 . Tho following errata shall be deemed to have bocn mado 
in tho policy at appropriate places indicated below : 


(4 ) Although this policy is for three years period , 
the licensing will continue to be on annual basis and 
al] entitlements worked out accordirgly , as bitherto , 


( 5 ) Wherever tho word " year" or " licensing year " 
appears in this policy , they should be construed to 
moan " financial year" beginning from 1st April to 
31st March 


- Sl. Pagc No. of Referonco 

Errata 
No . Import and 

Expart 
Policy 
1985 - 88 

(Val. I) 
1 . 
(1) 122 Appendix 2 After the existing entry No. 

Part B 

( 107) the following ontry 
shall be made : 
" (107. A ) Calaur TV Picture 

tubes othor than 
thoso mentioned in 
Appondix 5 List 8 

Part I. 
(2) 290 Appendix 19 In the eleventh lino, tho 

Para 17 sign " ( + ) " shall bo corrected 

Eleventh Linc to read as " (1) " . 
(3) 325 Annexure II In the second line , the 
to 

word " (S ) " sball bo carrccted 
Appendix 21 to road as " ( 5) " . 

Nato (1 ) 
P . C . JAIN , Chief Controller of Imports and Exports 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 


IMPORT & EXPORT POLICY FOR 
APRIL , 1985 - --MARCH , 1988 

CHAPTER I 
INTRODUCTION AND DEFINITIONS 


Introduction 

1 ( 1 ) . The Import and Export Policy for the period 
April, 1985 — March , 1988 is being published in 
two Volumes . Vol. I contains the Imports and Export 
Promotion Policy , and Vol. II contains the Policy in 
respect of items under Export Licensing. The policy 
in this Book has been brought into cffect under the 
Gazette of India Extraordinary dated the 12th April , 
1985 , 


2. The Hand Book of Import- Export frocedures, 
1985 – 88 is a supplement to the Inport and Export 
Policy and contains relevant procedures and otho 
details. 

3 . The Imports and Exports (Control) Act , 1947 
empowers the Central Government to prohibit , 
restrict or otherwise control imports and exports. 
In exercise of the powers conferred by this Act, the 
Imports (Control) Order , 1955 has been issued . 
Schedule I to the said Order contains the list of arti 
cles of which imports are controlled . The import of 
such items is prohibited except (i ) under and in 
accordance with a licence or a customs clearance permit 
issued under the said Order , or (ü ) if they are covered 
by an Open General Licence ( subject to such condition 
as may be stipulated ), or ( iii ) if they are covered by 
the Savings Clause 11 of the Imports (Control) Order. 
Import of gold , silver, currency and currency noter , 
bank notes and coins is controlled by the Reserve 
Bank of India, under the Foreign Exchange Regula 
tions Act , 

4 . The Exports ( Control) Order , 1977 regulates 
export of commodities subject to export licensing . 
Most of the items are de-controlled and allowed freely . 
In respect of some iterns, the export is allowed subject 
to ceilings having regard to domostio requirements. 

5 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this 
policy or in the Hand Book of Import -Export Proce 
duros, 1985 – 88, the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports may , by issuing a public potice , evolve any 
special procedure for the grant of import licences of 
export licences to any particular category of importers 
of exporters , or in respect of any particular comno 
dity . In such cases , the provisions of the policy and 
procedure as may be laid down , shall apply only or 
the extent laid down in such public notice . 

6 . With a vicw to facilitating easy reference , as 
effort has been made to consolidate the various provi 
sions in distinct chapters of this Book which has a 
co- relation with the corresponding chapters and 
appendices in the Hand Book . This , however, will 
not preclude the applicability of other provisions in 
any other part of the Import and Export Policy 
1985 – 88 and /or the Hand Book of Import- Export 
Procedures . 1985 - 88 . 
Definitions 

7 . For the purposes of this policy, the following 
words shall bave the meanings attached to them : 

( 1 ) " Actual User ” means a person, who applies 
for / secures a licence for the import of any item or 
an allotment of an imported item required for his own 
use , and not for business or trade in it . Thus, in the 


( 2 ) The Import and Export Policy is being 
announced this time for the three young period from 
the date of announcement till 318t March , 1988 In 
consonance with the Government s objective of bring 
Ing in continuity and stability of Import and Export 
Promotion policies . However , the Governmcöt 
reserves the right to make amendments /changes in 
this policy which may betono necessary in public 
interest from time to time during the above period . 
Amendments etc .. if any, will be notifiod , as usual, 
by means of public notices / amendment orders etc . 
issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports 
from time to time. Provisions of this Policy Book 
are subject to such amendments or changes as and 
when notifled . 


(3 ) Instructions and guidelines contained in this 
Book are applicable subiect to such amendments / 
changos as may be mado from time to time, 


[ TTI – 


1 ] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


case of an industrial undertaking , the item concerned 
shall be utilised for the manufacturing processes or 
operations conducted within its authorised premises 
( or made available to jobbing units or other units 
outside for intermediate processing only as part 
of such production effort). In the non -industrial cate 
gory, such as hospitals , research and development 
units or any other institutions, commercial establish 
ments and sudividuals, the concerned item shall be 
utilised for its / his own use , i.e ., for the purpose for 
which the item was sought for import. 


ship term or by lease or by hire purchase . While 
calculating the value of plant and machinery tho 
original price paid by the owner, irrespective of 
whether the plant and machinery are new or socond 
hand will be taken into account. Such a small scalo 
industrial undertaking shall not be a subsidiary of or 
owned or controlled by another undertakiog. 
Similarly Anciliary Industrial Undertakings having 
Investment in fixed assets in plant and machinery , 
whether held on ownership torm or by lease or by hire 
purchase not exceeding Rs. 45 lakhs are exempted 
from the licensing provisions of the Industries 
(Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951, subject to 
the condition that such an undertaking shall not be 
a subsidiary of or owned or controlled by any other 
undertaking . Notification S . O . 202 ( E ) dated March 
18 , 1985 issued by Ministry of Ipdustry and Company 
Affairs , Department of Industrial Development, and 
published in Part II Section 3 Sub - Section ( ii ) of 
Gazette of India Extra - ordinary of the samc date 
read with Press Note No . 9 ( 1985 series ) issued on 
March 19 , 1985 by the above Department may be 
referred to 


(2 ) " Actual User Condition " shall be construed 
accordingly . 

(3 ) “ Actual User ( Industrial)" shall mean an 
industrial undertaking , be it in the large scale , small 
scale or cottage industries sector , engaged in the 
manufacture of any goods for which it holds a licence 
or Registration Certificate from the appropriate 
Government quthority , wherever applicable . 


(4 ) " Actual User (Non - industrial) " means 
( a ) any commercial establishment which has 

been registered or holds a certificate for at 
least 3 years under the local law applicable 
to Shops and Establishments generally and 
which carries on any business, trade or pro 
fession , whether for the purpose of gain or 
not, but docs not include a shop , factory, 
residential hotel, restaurant or eating houso ; 
Or 


NOTE : — wherever the term " Small Scale Unit" 

appears in this policy , it will mcan " Small 
Scale Industrial Undertaking” as defined 
above, 


(6 ) " Registered Exporter" means a person holding 
A valid Registration Certificate issued by an Export 
Promotion Council , Commodity Board or other regis . 
tering authority designated by Government for the 
purposes of export promotion. 

( 7 ) " Export House ! Trading House" means a 
Registered Exporter holding a valid Export House / 
Trading House Certificate issued by the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports , New Delhi. 


(b ) any establishment bolding a licence for at 

Icast 3 years under the local law relating 
to the exhibition of cinematographic films to 
the public at the authorised premiscs ; or 


( c ) any person who , not being an employeo or 

wage earner, is himself engaged in any pro 
fession or calling and has been assessed to 
income -tax 38 such ; or 


(8 ) " Capital Goods " means any plant, machinery , 
equipment or accessories required by an investor for 
production of goods or for rendering services , including 
those required for replacement or expansion . 


( d ) any laboratory, scientific or rescarcb and 

development institution , university or other 

educational institution or hospital; or 
(c ) any service industry in existence and holds a 

licence for the purpose under the local law 
for at least three years ; or 


titution it, univergesearch 


i ( 9 ) " Computer systems" means all types of 
electronic data /information processing equipment, 
their peripheral equipment, their interface equipment, 
their data communication equipment, terminals , 
modems, electronic data collection and data prepara 
tion equipment and connected on line control systems; 
it also covers all system software , application software 
and firmware to work on existing hardware or that 
proposed to be imported . 


public sector ( non -industrial) undertaking , 
not run departinentally ; this will not include 
a residential hotel, restaurant or eating 
house ; or 


means of which ch it may be 


( 10 ) " Component" means one of the parts of 
sub - assemblies or assemblies of which a manufac 
tured product is made up and into which it may be 
resolved and includes an accessory ( or attachment) . 


( g ) any local authority . 
( 5 ) " Small Scale Industrial Undertaking" means 
all industrial units with a capital investment of not 
exceeding Rs, 35 lakhs irrespective of the number 
of persons employed . Capital investment for the 
purpose of this definition will be investment in fixed 
assets in plant and machinery , whether held on owner 


( 11 ) " Spare " mcags a part of sub - assembly 
or assembly for substitution , i.e . ready to replaco an 
identical similar part or sub -assembly or assembly , if 
it becomes faulty or worn out, and includes an 
accessory ( or attachment ) in the same regard , 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - Sec , 1 ] 


( 12 ) " Consumable " means any item which partici 
pates or is required in a manufacturing process ; but 
does not form part of the end- product . 

( 13 ) " Consumer goods" for the purpose of import 
policy, will mean consumption goods which can 
directly satisfy human needs without further 
processing ; it would include consumer durables also . 

( 14 ) " Accessory " (or " attachment" ) means a part, 
sub -assembly or assembly that contributes to the 
effectiveness of a piece of cquipment without changing 
its basic functions . 

( 15 ) " Part" means an clcment of a sub - assembly or 
assembly , not normally useful by itself and not 
amenable to further disassembly ( or maintenance 
purposes . ( It could be a component, spare or 
accessory - depending upon the nature of its use / 
requirement ). 

( 16 ) A reference to " singlo item " , wherevor it 
appears in this policy shall mean : An item will count 
as one even if it may be used in various sizes and 
specification es . ball and roller bearings , etc . will be 
treated as a single item . Secondly , the value limit 
for a single item , wherover referred to in this policy , 
would apply to : 
( a ) a single entry wherever thore is no sub 

classification thereunder; 
(b ) a sub - classified item having its own sub 

entry number ; 
( c) a group of items of the same nature having 

descriptive heading under the same entry / 

sub-entry number; and 
(d ) the totality of electronic items included 

under entry No . 607 in Appendix 3 Part - A . 


Last date (s) for filing Applications 

10 ( 1 ) . The last date for receipt of applications, 
by the concerned sponsoring authorities, from Actual 
Users ( Industrial as well as Non - Industrial) , for 
Supplementary Licences , ball be 15th December of 
the licensing year to which the application pertains . 
Further, the last date for receipt of thesc applications 
for Supplementary licences, by the concerned licensing 
authority , duly recommended by the sponsoring 
authority , shall be 31st January of the licensing year 
10 which the application portains . However, in the 
case of new / proposed units, the last date for receipt 
of applications for Supplementary Licences, by the 
concerned licensing authority , duly recommended by 
the respective sponsoring authorities shall be the 
last day of February of the licensing year in which 
the application pertains . 

( 2 ) Thero will be no last date , within the licensing 
period concerned , for submission of applications for : 
(i ) Import Replenishment licences including Advance / 
Special Imprest/ Imprest licences /Pass Book under the 
import policy for Registered Exporters; ( ii ) import of 
goods under the Empowered Committee procedure , 
vide para 40 of this Book ; ( ii) licences under para 
127 (15 ) appearing in Chapter -VII of this Book ; 
( iv ) import by individuals of articles meant for their 
personal use; and (v) Emergency licences for spares. 

( 3 ) The last date for receipt of all other import 
applications , by the concerned licensing authority , 
shall be the last day of February of the licensing year 
to which the application pertains, unless any specific 
date is indicated to the contrary . 

( 4 ) Applications received after the prescribed last 
date ( s ) indicated in sub - paras ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) above , 
shall be rejected and no refund of fees is permissible 
in such cases , 


Special 
Imlicy 
for Empowered 
(ii) licent of thi 


goods under of this book ;hapter -VII of 


1A ) Application 
in sub -paras 


fees is pert 


CHAPTER II 


GENERAL LICENSING MATTERS 


Code Numbers for Importers 


I. V .C . Declaration 

11 ( 1 ) . Every application for an import licence 
shall be accompanied by a declaration (in duplicate) 
regarding the filing of the Income Tax Returns and 
payment of taxes due by the applicant , in the form 
given in Appendix II- O of tho Hand Book of Import 
Export Procedures, 1985 – 88 . Attention is particu 
larly drawn to the fact that the declaration is in 
two parts , ( A ) and ( B ) , and the applicant should 
ensure that the part not applicable to him is clearly 
struck off . 

(2 ) Production of IVC declaration has been ex 
cmpted in some cases ( Please see para 52 of the 
Hand Book of Import- Lxport Procedures, 1985 -88 ) . 


8 . Every person importing goods, whether against 
a Licence or under 0 . G . L ., shall be required to ob 
tain Code Number from the licensing authority 
concerned . With effect from 1st July , 1982, it was 
stipulated that the Customs Authorities shall not 
allow clearance of goods to an importer who does not 
possess a valid " Importer Code Number ( ICN ) " . 
The details of the scheme are given in Chapter II of 
tbe Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 
1985 – 88 . 


Lłconsłng Authorities and theft Jurisdiction 

9 . The names and areas of jurisdiction of the 
various licensing authorities under the Chief Controller 
of Imports and Exports are given in Appendix TI - B 
of the Hand Book of Import- Export Procedures, 
1985 - - 88. 


Application Fees 

12 . The scale of tees payable for different types of 
licences is given in the Schedule III to the Imports 
(Control) Order , 1955, appearing as Appendix I 
Part- B of the Hand Book of Import -Export Procodures , 
1985 - 88 . The procedure for deposit of the feels 
also given in Appendix ICC of the Haud Book . Every 
application for an import licence shall , unless it is 10 
exempted , be accompanied by the Bank Receipt or 


[ TIT 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


Draft, as applicable, for the payment of the prescribed 


Ico 


under OGL or under the said exemption provisions, 
the importer shall fill in Form Al appearing in the 
Appendix 111- ) of the Hand Book of Import-Export 
Procedures , 1985 – 88 . 


Conditions of Import Licences 


13. Every import licence issued under this policy 
shall be deemed to have been issued subject to the 
conditions ( applicable thereto ) as laid down in the 
Imports (Control) Order , 1955 , as amended . These 
conditions apply to licences in addition to any other 
conditions imposed on the licence itself. 


Modes of Financing 

16 ( 1 ). Litences granted under the policy for Regis 
tered Exporters will be issued for import against free 
foreign exchange . 


(2 ) Import licences for raw materials, components, 
consumables and spares to small scale industrial units , 
including cottage industry units will be issued for im 
port against free forcigo exchange . 


Export ObHgation 

14 ( 1 ) . Government may require any industry ou 
an industrial undertaking or other establishment, using 
imported machinery or inputs to show a given export 
performance over a period of time. Failure to dis 
charge such obligation will render it liable to penal 
action under law besides the denial of further licences . 


( 2 ) Where a manufacturer, who is under export 
obligation , as per sub- para ( 1 ) above , exports his 
products through another exporter , such exports may 
be taken into account for the discharge of export 
obligation of the manufacturer concerned , provided 
the following conditions are satisfied : 


(3 ) Import licences for raw materials, components, 
consumables and spares to large scale industrial units 
will also be issued for import against free foreign ex 
change. However , in such cases, at the time of effect 
ing remittances towards payment for the goods , the 
importer shall fill in Form Al appearing in 
Appendix III- J of the Hand Book of Import-Export 
Procedures, 1985 – 88 . The importer will not be 
separately required again to fill in Form A pres 
cribed in Section 1V , para 9 of the Exchange Control 
Manual issued by the Reserve Bank of India . 


(i ) There is an acceptable documentary evidence 

to show that the goods exported had been 
manufactured by the manufacturer who is 

under export obligation ; 
( ii ) The name of the manufacturer of the goods 

exported appears in all or any of the export 
documents ; 


(4 ) Applications for import licences for substantial 
values of plant and machinery which are required for 
the setting up of new projects or substantial expansion , 
will be considered against one or more of the accept 
able means of financing Details are given in Chap 
ter III of the Hand Book of Import- Export Procodures, 
1985 - - 88. 


Validity of Import licences 


(ü ) The manufacturer of the goods exported pro 

duces " no objection " certificate ( disclaimer ) 
from the other party whose name also 
appears in all or any of the export docu 
ments ; and 


( iv ) The other party referred to in ( iii ) above 

gives a declaration to the effect that it shall 
not utilisa tho sanie exports to discharge its 
OWD cxport obligation, if any. 


17 . Import licences granted to the Actual Users 
for raw materials , components , consumables and spares 
will be valid for 18 months. Similarly , validity of 
licences issued under the Registered Exporters policy 
will be 18 months. Import licences for Capital Goods 
will, however, be valid for 24 months . Import 
ficences for emergency spares will ha valid ooly for 
onc year . The detailed provisions in this regard art 
given in Chapter II of the Hand Book of Import 
Export Procedures , 1985 — 88 . 


NOTE :- - The export obligation , referred to in sub 

para ( 1 ) above , does not relatc lo export 
obligation under import licences having 
cxport obligation such as Advance licence , 
Spocial Imprest licence , Imprest Licence , 
Import- Export Pass Book , and expor 
obligation in terms of approval for setting 
up 100 % export oriented ur: ito 


Import under OGL or exempt trong ITC restrictions 


15 . Certain items can be imported under Open 
General Licence by eligible categories of importere. 
Import of certain items is also excmpt froni the Im 
port Trade Control restriction , in accordance with 
the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 . At the time of 
effecting the permissible remittance towards payment 
of goods, for import against a specific licence or 


Compliance with other laws 

18 . It is implied that every applicant for an im 
port licence has complied with and continues to comply 
with the provisions of all other laws applicable to him 
self or any other person on whose behalf he submits 
an application . The grant of an import licence does 
not also confer any immunity, exemption or relaxation 
at any time from an obligation or compliance with 
any requirements to which the licence holder may be 
subject to under other laws or regulations. This would 
apply also to materials allotted dircctly by the 
canalising agencies under the policy , as also to the 
imports made under the Open General Licence , with 
or without an A . U . condition attached thereto . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - SEC. 1] 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


Suggestions for Change in the Item -wise Policy 

19 . Any suggestions for change in the item - wise 
import policy should be addressed to the Chief Con 
troller of Imports and Exports , ( Import Policy Cell ) , 
Udyog Bhawan , New Delhi, with a copy to the tech 
nical authorities concerned , with full justification for 
the change sought to be made . The information in 
the proforma given in Appendix II- L of the Hand 
Book of Import- Export Procedures, 1985 – 88 should 
also be sent therewith . 


process involved , the raw materials used , production 
pattern , product specifications, etc . 

( 8 ) Items appearing in appendices refer to finished 
items; in all such cases , the relevant policy would 
apply to semi- finished material as well . In a few cases, 
however, the entry specifically refers to rough or proot 
machined material; this would include semi-finished 
items as well . 


21. The following principles will apply to the 
inter - se interpretation of the entries in the various 
Appendices as well as imports under Open General 
Licence : - - 


Clarification and Interpretation of the Policy 

20 ( 1 ) . As defined in para 7 ( 15 ) , a " part” could 
be a component , a spare or an accessory , depending 
upon the nature of its use /requirement. This word 
appears accordingly in the connected definitions of 
components , spares and accessories . 


(2 ) Components would be required under the 
Import Policy only by Actual Users ( Industrial) 
manufacturing the relevant end -products. No sucb 
stipulation applies to spares and accessories, 


(a ) any item in Appendix 2 Part - A will prevail 

over any item anywhere in tbis Book ; 
( b ) any item in Appendix 5 will prevail over 

any iten in Appendices 2 Part- B and 3 ; 
( c ) an item with a specific description in 

Appendix 2 Parc-B or 3 Part- A will prevail 
over an item with a gencric description in 

any of these Appendices ; 
( d ) an item with a generic description in 

Appendix 2 Part - B will prevail over an item 
with a generic description in Appendix 3 

Part- A ; 
( c ) the same principles as in (c ) and ( d ) above 

will apply to the iron and steel items in 
Appendices 2 Part B and 3 Part - B ; 


( 3 ) Actual Users ( Industrial) would require spares 
for operating and maintaining their production assets , 
i.c ., their captive needs. For fulfilling any after 
sales /warranty obligations to their customers, they 
may require spares for a suitable period after the 
sales . Relevant provisions have been made to meci 
these requirements separately. 


(4 ) In the case of accessories , the requirements 
of Actual Ugers ( Industrial) would be covered by the 
supplementary licensing procedure, as components , 11 
these are to be fitted to the products currently under 
manufacturo . But, it (complete ) accessories are re 
quired for the better utilisation of cquipment already 
sold , the import would have to be made by the user 
concerned under the relevant procedure / provisions ap 
plicable - unless this is covered by after-sales / 
warranty obligations. However, in appropriate cases, 
ad hoc licences may be granted to the manufacturer 
of the main equipment item to which the accessory 
is intended to be a fitment. 


(f) any item in Appendices 2 , 3 , 5 or 8 with a 

specific or a generic description , will pre 
clude the eligibility to its import under 
Open General Licence, except where the 

policy allows this clearly . 
22 ( 1 ). References to pigments and dyestuffs in 
Appendix 3 Part - A will apply equally to materials 
having the same colour indices as stated therein to 
different manufacturers . 


(5 ) Items in Appendices 2 Part B and 3 Part- A do 
not refer to spares as such ; but some entries there 
in relate to components , consumables , sub -assemblies 
or modules . Where an item does not appear 
individually ( elsewhere ) in these Appendices, i. e., in 
its own name, it could be imported as a spare (under 
Chapter VI) by the eligible Actual User . 

(6 ) The definition of " Consumer Goods" has been 
incorporated in Chapter I, for the purpose of import 
policy only . This definition is illustrative and not 
exhaustive . It will be left to the customs authorities 
to identity the goods , which , in their judgement, could 
be appropriately classified as " Consumer Goods" . 

(7 ) The definition of " consumables" does not 
refer to parts . It is difficult to identify all con 
sumables, as their consumption would vary from unit 
to unit , depending upon the machinery in use , the 


(2 ) Reference to " industrial yarn " , will , wherever 
appropriate, include " guts " as well. 

( 3 ) In the case of electronic components , the 
relevant entries in Appendix 3 Part - A set out inter 
nationally accepted specifications and would include 
all such items of differeot manufacturers, 

(4 ) In the case of drugs appearing in Appendices 
2 Part- B , 3 Part- A and 5 , the names mentioned 
are as they are commonly known , and each entry in 
cludes the salts, esters and complexes of the same drug , 
as well as its active ingredients . 

(5 ) In the case of Automotive components / ancil 
laries those having non - automotive application as 
well, would be covered by the respective entries . 

23 ( 1 ), Clarification regarding technical specification / 
size etc ., of any iron and steel item in Appendices 
2 Part B and 3 Part B may be had from the Depart 


( TI- Orl] 


भारत का राजपत : मसाधारण 


- 


- 


( iv ) 


ment of Steel, New Delhi as set out in paragraph 103 . 
This would include queries as to whether material 
required by an A . U . ( Industrial) is melting scrap or 


not. 


( 2 ) The following points are to be carcfully noted 
while interpreting the specifications, terminologies, 
scope , etc . of iron , steel and ferro alloy items appear 
ing under the Appendices 2 Part-B , 3 Part- B , and 
5 Part- A for the purpose of permissibility for import 
or otherwise of the various items mentioned in these 
appendices : - 


The terminology Carbon Steel is used to 
indicate that it is not an alloy steel for 
purpose of interpretation of this policy . 
Very low carbon steels with very low con 
tents of manganese and silicon ctc. and 
marketed under various trade / commercial 
nomenclatures like iron sheets , iron wires 
etc . are all to be considered as covered 
under the description carbon steel appear 
ing in the Appendices 2 Part- B . 3 Part- B 
and 5 Part- A ( This would also include 
what is known in commercial parlance as 
mild steel) . 


(i) 


The terminology and definition of iron , 
stecl and ferro alloy items are to be con 
sidered in accordance with those appear 
ing in the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 amend 
ed from time to time except in such of the 
cases where special interpretations are issu 
ed hereunder . 


( v ) The terminology Stainless Steel/Heat Re 

sisting Steel is used to cover the large field 
of stainless / heat resisting / corrosion resist 
ing / creep steels etc . Any alloy with iron 
less than 50 % is not treated as iron and 
steel item for the purpose of this Chapter 
and connected schedules . Any steel con 
taining 12 % or more chromium with or 
without other alloying elements , will be 
covered under the description stainless / heat 
resisting steel. An exception to this is 
tool / dic steel with about 12 % chromium 
and about 2 % carbon . This would be 
covered under the general classification for 
aloy steels . 


( ü ) 


The items appearing in the Appendices 
2 Past- B , 3 Part- B and 5 Part- A do not 
cover bright bars /bars in cold finished con 
ditions like cold drawn , pealed , machined , 
turned , ground polished , etc ., unless speci 
fically mentioned as for example in the case 
of High Speed Steel Rounds etc. Such items 
are not under the purview of Department of 
Steel and policy indicated in other Appen 
dices may be consulted for such items, 


( vi) Re-rollable scrap would mean 


( iii) The following items are also not under the 

purview of Dept. of Steel and hence not 
covered in Appendiccs 2 Part- B , 3 Part- B , 
and 5 Part - A unless otherwise specified , in 
which case , the policy indicated in other 
Appendices may be consulted for such 
Items : 


( 1) All seconds/second 

grade dofectlyes 
cutting of semis) 

bars / rail/ structurals . L 
( 2 ) Plato cuttings. 


with length -- - 1800 mm max . , 
width - - 600 mm max , 
ibickness 5 mm and above , 


( 3) Usod rails / structurato . 


( vii) Classification as Alloy Steels is done on the 

basis of the following : 


( a ) Cold formed sections from 

sbeets / strips / coils . 


plates / 


(b ) Hot extruded cold extruded sections, 


( a ) Where the elements are defined by a 

range or by a minimum value, the 
minimum value of that range or the 
minimum specified shall dctcrmine whether 
it is ag alloy steel or not. 


( c ) Insuløted wires , 


( d ) Iron / Steel items with iron content less 

than 50 per cent by weight. 


( b ) Where the elements are defined only 

by maximum values 70 per cent of 
these maximum values shall determine 
whether it is an alloy steel or not. 


( e ) Cladded items where the base iron / 

steel constitutes less than 50 per cent by 
weight of the total composite material. 


( vii ) For the purpose of this import policy , stair 

less /heat resisting steel celting scrap means 
such scrap with the following dimensions : 


(f) Iron / Steel powders . 
Note : For the above -mentioned items, the 

intending importers should get clarifications 
from DGTD as to the policy applicable to 
them , before making imports or applying 
for licences . It is clarified that these items 
should not be taken as being covered under 
OGL . 


Length 153 mm max . (6 " ) 


Width 102 mm max . ( 4 " ) 


Thickness 6 .5 mm max . ( +" ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART - SEC . 1 ] 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


Cluomium content between 18 to 20 % 


given in Appendix II- K of the Hand Book of Import 
Export Procedures , 1985 – 88 . 


Nickel Content 10. 5 % max . 


Note . ( a ) The DGTD will liaise with other Minis 

tries concerned and provide the necessary 
claritication to the Actual Users ., 


( ix ) Plates/sheets 


Plates and sheets , wherever mentioned , would 
mean in cut lengths only . "Coils would 
cover the plates / sheets (as the case may be ) 
in the coil form also . 


(b ) Particulars of the items for wbich clari 
tication is sought, supplemented by technical 
uterature , if any, may be provided to the 
D . G . T . D . to assist expeditious clarification 
being given . 


( 1 ) Strips 


mean 


Strips, wherever mentioned , would 
both cut lengtbs and colls. 


( xi) 


All items of iron and steel to be imported 
under the policy including REP should be 
of Prime quality only unlese specifically 
mentioned otherwise against any item 
appearing in the appendices, such as, 
" scrap" or defectives" , and tho liko are 
permitted for import against specific entries . 


(6 ) This Import and Export Policy being for 
the three years period April 1985 — March 1988 , 
has made it necessary to use terminologies like the 
licensing year ; the current licensing year , the pre 
coding licensing year and so on . As alrcady men 
tioned in Chapter I, the licensing will continue to bo 
on annual basis and that the " year " or " licensing 
year " should be construed to mean financial year 
beginning from 1st April to 31st March . Accord 
ingly reference to preceding licensing year , during the 
licensing year 1985 - 86 , 1986 - 87 and 1987 - 88 should 
be construed to mean 1984 - 85 , 1985 - 86 and 
1986 -87 respectively and reference to next or follow 
ing ycar should be construcd to mean 1986 -87, 
or 1987 -88 or 1988 - 89 as the case may be . 


( xii ) 


For classification as high speed steels , only 
those compositions listed in IS specifica 
tion would be considered as high speed 
steels . 


NOTE : Definitions and classifications furnished above 

are meant for determining the class to 
which a particular steel belongs and the 
clause / sub- clause of a specific entry in a 
schedule it falls under, for the sole purpose 
of this import policy. 


24 . Actual Users may also seek clarification on 
any item -wise entry applicable to them , from the 
regional licensing authorities at Bombay , Madras 
and Calcutta , who will secure technical advice in the 
matter . 


( 3 ) In respect of items other than iron and steel , 
an Actual User i.e ., any person desirous of importing 
en item subject to Actual User condition , may seek 
clarification from the DGTD ( Import and Export 
Policy Cell ) , Udyog Bhavan , New Delhi- 110011 
about : 


( i) the scope of any Item in Appendices 1, 2 , 3 

Part - A , 5 , 6 , 8 and 10 ; 


25 ( 1 ) . In all other matters relating to Actual 
Users , and enquities emanating from other persons, 
1.e. Export Houses, selling agents , traders, etc ., as well 
as the interpretation of the policy proper and the pro 
cedure, the persons concerned may address the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports , New Delhi for 
necessary advice. Normally , clarification should be 
issued within a period of 15 days by the CCI& E , 
New Delhi and Jt. CCI& E at Bombay, Calcutta and 
Madras , where no inter - departmental consultation is 
required . D . G . T . D . and Department of Steel should 
also issue clarification normally within a period of 
15 days . Where complete details are not furnished 
in the proscribed proforma, request for clarification 
will be rejected . Any interpretation of the Import 
Policy given in any other manner or by any other 
person will not be binding on the CCI& E , or in 
jaw . In the case of Actual Users also , if a clarifica 
tion issued by any other authority is different from 
that issued by the CCI& Ę , the latter will prevail. 


( ii ) the technical specification / size etc . covered 

by any such item ; 


( ili ) any doubt whether a particular item requir 

ed by him is a raw material, component , 
consumable , spare or capital goods or a con 
gumcr item banned for import. 


(4 ) An Actual User may seek clarification in respect 
of electronic items from the Department of Electronics , 
Lok Nayak Bhawan , New Delhi. 


( 2 ) Notwithstanding what has been statod in sub 
mara ( 1 ) above , any interpretation of Import -Export 
Policy or procedura given by tho Chlef Controllcr of 
Imports and exports, New Delhi will prevail over 
any other clarification in the same matter given by any 
other authority or person . 


( 5 ) Particulars of item , in respect of which clari 
lication is sought, should be given in the proforma 


IMIT |- - 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


- 


- - 


Valldity of Japorta 

26 . Import is valid if it fulfils , among other things, 
the following conditions : 

(i) It is covered by a licence / Open General 

Iirence/ Customs Clearance Permit . 
(ii) The description , value and the quantity of 

the imported goods are in accordance with 
the licence /Open General Licenco / Customs 

Clearance Permit 
(iii ) The shipment/ despatch of the goods from 

the supplying country takes place within 
the validity period of the licence / Open 

General Licence /customs clearance permit. 
( iv ) The terms and conditions contained in the 

licence /Open General Licence / customs clea 
rance permit and the Import- Export Policy 
and Procedures in regard to the item (s ) of 
the import and all other connected matters 
are fulfilled . 


Lloonce List (Appendix 6 ) in the current 
Import & Export Policy will not be consi 

dered ; 
( b ) Applications for items, which were in the 

Automatic Permissible List in the Import 
& Export Policy for 1984 - 85 but shifted to 
Limited Permissible List ( Appendix 3 ) or 
Restricted List (Appendix 2 Part B ) of the 
current Import & Export Policy , will be 
considered on the recommendation of the 
sponsoring authority as per Supplementary 

Licensing proceduro . 
( 2 ) The facility of repeat-operation of Automatic 
licencos for import of raw materials , components and 
consumables which was available for the licensing 
period 1984- 85 or earlier or the facility of obtaining 
Automatic Licence on repeat basis , as was provided 
in paras 33 - 34 of Import & Export Policy for 1984 - 85 , 
will not be available under this policy . 

30 . Applications from actual users for the grant 
of supplementary licences, which have not been dis 
posed of by 11 -4 -85 , will be decided as per current 
policy without making a back reference to the spon 
soring authorities concerned . However , applications 
for items in Automatic permissible List will be decided 
as under - 


Imports not covered by licences 

27. ( 1 ) If any article , requiring a licence (including 
Customs Clearance Permit ) , is imported or sought 
to be cleared without a valid licence, the importer / 
owner of the goods will be liable to appropriate 
action under the provisions of the Imports & Exports 
( Control) Act, 1947 and the Orders issued there 
under without prejudice to any action that may be 
taken in this behalf under the Customs Act, 1962 . 


( 2 ) As in the matters relating to import- export 
policy and procedures the interpretation given by 
the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports is final, 
in case of doubt regarding theso matters, the customs 
authorities should consult the Import Trade Control 
authorities before clearance of the goods . 


Appeal and Review 

28 . Provisions relating to Appeal/Review under the 
Imports & Exports (Control) Act, 1947 or the Im 
port / Export ( Control) Order are given in Chapter II 
of the Hand Book of Import - Export Procedures , 
1985 - - 88 . 


( a ) Applications for items which wero in the 

Automatic Permissible List in the Import 
& Export Policy for 1984 -85 but shifted to 
Open General Licence List ( Appendix 6 ) 
in the current Import & Export Policy will 

not be considered ; 
(b ) Applications for items, which were in the 

Automatic Permissible List in the Import 
& Export Policy for 1984 -85 but shifted to 
Limited Permissible List (Appendix 3 ) or 
Rostricted List (Appendix 2 Part B ) in the 
curront Import & Export Policy will be con 
sidered as per policy . In such cases , the 
items to bo allowed will be those as are 
admissible under the policy in torce at the 

time of issue of licence . 
31 . (i) Actual Users, who had registered their 
demands with the canalising agencies concerned upto 
31st March of the preceding licensing year in respect 
of items which were canalised carlier but have been 
taken out of the list of canalised items in this policy , 
will not be allowed to cancel their indents except with 
the written consent of the canalising agency . 

( ii ) No Release Order will be converted into 
a direct import licence without the written consent 
of the canalising Agency concerned and the approval 


Transitional Arrangements 

29 ( 1 ) , Applications from actual users for grant 
of automatic licences , which have not been disposed 
of by 11 - 4 - 85 , will be decided as under : 
( a ) Applications for items which were in the 

Automatic Permissible List in the policy 

for 1984- 85 but shifted to Open General 
58 GI/ 85 - 2 . 


10 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

[PART I- SEC . 1] 
SS - SS = = = = = = M OS = = = 
of the Chiet Controller of topone and Exports, Now endorsed during the procoding licensin ycar tor import 
Delhi. 

A OGĻ items. 


32 . REP applications which have not been disposed 
of by 31st March of the preceding licensing year 
against which the licence is issued on or after 
1st April of licensing year the rate of import replenish 
ment will be as admissible on the date of export but 
the items of import will be as permissible under the 
Import- Export Policy , for the licensing year. This will 
not , however, apply to cases in which the relevant 
export contracts were registered in accordance with 
appropriate procedure . llie exports mude against 
registered contracts will be governed by the provisions 
of Appendix 20 of this policy . 


( 3 ) Additional licences issued to Export Houses / 
Trading Houses in the preceding licensing year or 
earlier shall cease to be valid for import of items of 
spares appearing in Appendices 2 , 3 , 5 Part A , 8 and 
10 of the Import & Export Policy for the licensing 
year . These restrictions will not apply to the extent 
the licence holders have made firm commitments by 
irrevocable letters of credit opened and established 

through authorised dealers in foreign exchange before 
· 1st April. 1985 . but any extensions to these letter 

of credit made after 31st March , 1985 , shall be 
treated as fresh commitments. 


( 4 ) Additional licences issued to Export Houses / 
Trading Houses during the preceding licensing ycar 
or earlier will also be valid for import of items of 
spares which are permissible for import against 
Additional licences issued during the licensing year. 


33 . REP licences issued during the preceding licens 
ing year will also be valid , within their over- all value, 
for the import of items permitted in the Statement of 
Import Policy for Registered Exporters in Appen 
dix 17 of this policy, subject to the value restrictions, 
if any , applicable thereto , in cases where the REP 
licence , in question , relates to the export products 
correspondnig to the same items in Appendix 17, pro 
vided the item to be imported is not already covered 
by the licence or it is subject to a value limit in the 
licence which is more restrictive than the limit permis 
sible for import in this Import-Export Policy . 


36 . Automatic licences issued to Actual Users 
(Industrial) during 1984 - 85 or carlier will continue 
to remain valid , within their validity period , for in 
port of items for which those licences were issued 
subject to the conditions laid down. 


34. Applications from Export Houses / Trading 
Houses for Additional licences which have not been 
disposed of by 31st March of the preceding licensing 
year against which the licence is issued on or arter 
Ist April of licensing year, the rate of entitlement will 
be the same as permissible during the licensing period 
to which the application pertains, but the iteins to be 
allowed will be as permissible in the Import- Export 
Policy for the licensing year. 


Relaxation of Pottey 

37. Cases for relaxation of the existing policy / pro 
cedure where it creates genuine hardship or whero a 
. strict application of the cxisting policy is likely to 
affect exports adversely , may be considered by the 
Government, or by any other person authorised in 
this behalt 


35 ( 1 ). REP licences and Additional licences beld 
by Export Houses / Trading Houses will cease to be 
valid for import of any item which could be imported 
under Open General Licence during the preceding 
licensing year or earlier but is no longer to in this 
Import- Export Policy . 


CHAPTER I 
CAPITAL GOODS 


Gener Provisions 


38 ( 1 ). Appendix I Part - A gives the list of Capita ) 
Goods which are restricted for import, 


( 2 ) Additional licences issued to Export Houses / 
Trading Houses during the preceding licensing year 
will also he valid within their over-all value , for import 
of raw materials, components, consumables and 
spares which can be imported under Oper General 
Licence by Actual Users ( Iridustrisl ) under the Im 
port-Expor! Policy , for the licensing year. This 
facility will also be available to Export Houses and 
Trading Houses holding REP licences which were 


( 2 ) Capital Goode listod in Appendix 1 Prep 
can be importod by cligible Actual Users under Open 
General Licenco, subject to the conditiont applicable 
thereto . 


[ 4125 - ] 


भारत का रामपन्न : असाधारण 


11 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 
- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


M 


-V 


- 


- 


IE 


- 


( 3 ) A . Actual Umt may apply to the concerned 
licensing authority for the import of any other Capital 
Goods which he requires, in the manner and form 
laid down in Chapter III of the Hand Book of Import 
Export Procedures , 1985 – 88 . 


( 4 ) Basic technical material for pesticides and 

woedicides. 
( 5 ) Power generation , transmission and distri 

bution. 
(6 ) Mineral exploration , mining and benefi 

cation . 
( 7) Potroleum exploration and production . 


Import of Capital Goods by AU (Industrial) 

Import of machinery by Industrial units using 
mainly Indigenous machinery 


( 8 ) Petrochemicals upto the stage of polymers. 


( 9 ) Manufacture of professional grade electro 

pics components . 
( 10 ) Wasto disposal recycling and effluent treat 

ment projects and ecological engineering. 


( 11 ) Materials handling projects at ports, 


39 . (1 ) Actual Users ( Industrial), who intend to 
set up now capacity ( or an expansion of the existing 
capacity) may be allowed to import Capital Goods 
upto c.i.f. value equal to 10 % of the purchase price 
of Capital Goods procured or proposed to be 
procured from indigenous sources , provided the 
import does not exced Rs. 1 crore in value (c.i.f.). 
Import applications will be considered without 
essentiality certificate of the sponsoring authority and 
without indigenous clearance or the need for 40 
advertisement of the Capital Goods sought to be im 
ported . In case where machinery is proposed to be 
procured from indigenous sources, documentary 
evidence of firm order placed on the indigenous 
supplier or letter of credit opened in their favour, may 
be produced , Import of restricted or second hand 
items of Capital Good shall not, however, be allowed . 


(12 ) Sugar. 
( 13 ) Cement and cement products 

asbestos ) . 


( Including 


( 2 ) Actual Users ( Industrial ) intending to mako 
use of this facility should submit their import appli 
cations direct to the licensing authority concerned in 
the prescribed form and manner. The licensing au 
thority in the case of small- scale industrial units will 
be the regional licensing authority concerned . Large 
scale industrial units should apply to the Chief Con 
troller of Imports and Exports , New Delhi, irrespec 
tive of the value of Capital Goods to be imported . 


The selection of suppliers on the basis of such 
global tenders, foreign or Indian , will be subject to 
scrutiny by a Commitee set up in the Department of 
Heavy Industry. Regard will be had to the provisions 
of Chapter III of the Hand Book of Import- Export 
Procedures, 1985--- 88 relating to clectronic items cx 
ceeding Rs. 5 lakhs in value. Comparison will be 
made between Indian offers (competitive ) and foreign 
offers on the basis of the landed cost of the latter, 
i.c ., c .i.f. cost plus import duty as applicable. Success 
ful Indian suppliers will be permitted to import raw 
materials and components ( aod not consumables ) 
without any restriction from indigenous availability 
angle (including items on O .G . L , or included in any 
other appendix of this policy ) for undertaking the 
manufacture of such Capital Goods. The rate of 
duty on such project imports would not exceed the 
rate of duty leviable on the concerned Capital Goods . 


( 3 ) This facility will not be available in those cases 
where the Industrial licence or Registration Certifi 
cato stipulates that no imported machinery shall be 
allowed to the units concerned . 


Import of Capital Goods against global tenders 

40 . ( 1 ) In the case of Capital Goods for the 
following industries / projects , applicants will be per 
mitted to call global tenders, irrespective of whether 
some of these are manuatctured indigenously on 
got : 


( 2 ) Under this provision import licences for raw 
materials and components may be issued to the manu 
facturers or end - users of Capital Goods (instead of 
manufacturers ) so that the end-users can have the 
Capital Goods manufactured from any authorised 
manufacturer , 


Import ot Instruments 


( 1 ) Fertilizer , 


( 2 ) Nowsprint and paper, 
( 3 ) Bzulc Urugs 


41. ( 1) Import of Instruments (other than those 
appearing in App . 8 ) required by Actual Users, as 
spares , will be governed by the same policy ag 
applicable to the import of Restricted spares Thic 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - -- 


- - - .. . -- - 


- 


nr 


12 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

( PART 1 - - Sec . 1 ] 
- - -- - - - 
down in Chapter VI, lead with Appcndux 19 . lnc 

authorities, froin 150 Awal Ubers indui. 
last date for receipt of applications by the concerned 

trial ) shall be 15th December of the licens 
licensing authority , shall be 31st October of the 

ing year to which the application pertains. 
licensing year to which the application pertains, How 

Further , the last date for receipt of appli 
ever, in cases wherc the supplementary licensing pro 

cations , by the concerne licensing autho 
cedure is required to be followed in terms of the 

rity, duly recommended by the sponsoring 
provisions of Chapter VI, the last date ( 8 ) for receipt 

authority , shall be 31st January of the year 
of applications by the sponsoring authority and the 

to which the application pertains. 
licensing authority respectively shall be the same as 
laid down in para 10 (1 ) of this Book 

(4 ) Applications for import of instruments in 

cases not covered by sub-paras ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) 
( 2 ) Import of instruments ( including those above will be considered , on merits , on par with the 
appearing in Appendix 8 ) , required by Actual ugers policy and procedure applicable to Capital Goods. 
( Industrial) as components will be allowed only on 
the recommendation of the sponsoring authority con Import of Jigs, fixtures , moulds and press tools 
cerned under the system of Supplementary licences 
under para 82 . The last date for receipt of appli 42 . Actual Users ( Industrial ) can import jigs , 
cations by the Sponsoring authority and the licensing fixtures , dies and patterns, moulds (including moulds 
authority respectively shall be the same as laid down for die casting ), and Press tools and parts thereof 
in para 10 ( 1 ) of this Book , 

under Open General Licence subject to the conditions 

applicable thereto . This facility shall not be available 
(3 ) Import of instruments appcaring in Appen 

for the import of items appearing in Appendix 1 
dix 8 , except when those are required as components 

Part - A , Appendix 2 and Appendix 3 Part- A . 
by Actual Users (Industrial) , will be governed by 
the following policy : 

Import of prototypes / samples 
(a) Items appearing in Part A of Appendix 8 43 (A ) ( 1) Applications for import of proto 
will not be allowed for import ; 

types / samples will be considered on a liberal basis. 

Ordinarily not more than two numbers will be allowed 
(b ) Items appearing in Part B of Appendix 8 on cach licence. Applications can be made by Actual 

will be allowed for import to Actual Users Users (Industrial) already engaged in production of 
( Industrial) upto a limit of 1 % of the the item whose proto-type / sample is sought for im 
value of Capital Goods installed or in use port for product development or whose schemes for 
by them as on 1st April of the licensing such production have been approved by appropriate 
year or Rs. 1,000 whichever is higher, Government authority . 
subject to the condition that not more than 
10 Nos. of each item would be allowed for ( 2 ) Small scale units which exported at least 25 
import and the total value of such instru per cent of their production of select products in any 
ments permitted for import shall not of the two previous financial years, subject to a mini 
exceed Rs. 2 lakhs in the licensing period . mum of Rs. 5 .0 lakhs (f.o .b .) or which exported 
Applications for import of these instru select products of at least Rs. 1 .0 crore in f.o .b . value 
ments should be made in the form and during any of the two previous financial years will 
manner prescribed for import of ‘restricted be allowed import of proto -type upto Rs. 1.0 lakh in 
spares . The last date for receipt of appli value not exceeding two in number automatically by 
cations by the concerned licensing authority , the regional licensing authority concerned , without 
shall be 31st October of the licensing year the recommendation of the sponsoring authority. 
to which the application pertains. Appli 
cations for additional requirements, if any , ( 3 ) Applications for import of proto -type / sample 
of thesc instruments may be considered on may also be considered from Actual Users (Industrial ) 
the recommendation of the sponsoring on the recommendation of the sponsoring authority 
authority concerned aftcr obtaining clea concerned and in consultation with the DGTD , in 
rance from the DGTD (Import and Export cases where the applicant is neither engaged in pro 
Policy Cell ) . The last date for receipt of duction of the concerned item nor his scheme for such 
applications by the concerned sponsoring production has been approved by Government. 


[ ATTI - 


T 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


( 3) Import of LPG cylinders will not be allowed . 


(4 ) Where the value exceeds Rupees one lakh, the 
above applications should be made to the Chief Con 
troller of Imports and Exports , New Delhi in the 
form and manner applicable to Capital Goods. Where 
it is Rupees one lakh or less, applications may be 
made to the regional licensing authorities. In all 
cases, the applications should be made through the 
sponsoring authorities. 


( 4 ) Import of medical gas cylinders upto 10 .2 
Litre water capacity and CO , gas cylinders upto 15 
litre water capacity for fire extinguishers as com 
ponents will be allowed under OGL to Actual Users 
( Industrial) in accordance with the provisions made 
in Appendix 6 . 


linport of technical simple prototypes against Actual 
Users Licences 


(B ) Requests for iniport of chemicals and other 
materials to be used as technical samples / proto -types 
will be considered by the regional licensing authorities 
concerned on the recommendation of the sponsoring 
authority , upto Rs. 10 ,000 in value against the Actual 
User licences for import of raw materials and com 
ponents , by specific endorsement made thereon , if 
required . 


(5 ) Import of frigh pressure gas cylinders above 
i5 litre water capacity us component or spares may 
bc considered under the procedure for supplementary 
licensing 

(6 ) Import of yas - inders will be subject to the 
following conditions : - - 

(i) Cylioders and valves fitted thereto to be 

imported must be of a type as approved by 
the Chief Controller of Explosives and 
accepted for use under the Gas Cylinder 
Rules, 1981. 


Import of Samples under OGL -4 


(ii) Cylinders imported should not be used for 

any gas service other than the gas for 
which they have been imported for a period 
of ten years from the date of importation . 


( C ) ( 1) Import of samples supplied free of charge 
upto Rs, 20 ,000 in valuo , samples of drugs and 
medicines , supplied free of charge upto Rs. 10 ,000 
and free samples of insecticides is allowed under 
OGL- 4 appearing in Appendix 7 subject to the con 
ditions laid down . 


( ii ) Importers shall obtain necessary permission 

from the Chief Controller of Explosives as 
required under the Gas Cylinder Rules , 
1981. 


(2 ) Research and Development units and Scientific 
or Research Laboratories can import proto -types / 
samples under Open General Licenco , as provided in 
Appendix 6 


Import of Printing Machinery 

45 . ( 1 ) Printing Machinery listed in Appendix 1 
Part - B of Imports - Export Policy 1985 -88 will be 
allowed for import to eligible Actual Users undor 
Open General icence subject to the conditions laid 
down . 


Import of samples by Registered Exporter 


( D ) Necessary provisions for import of samples / 
proto -types by Registered Exporters have been made 
in Chapter XIV . 


Import of gas cylinden 

44 . ( 1) Applications for import of yas cylinders 
will be considered by Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports , New Delhi, irrespective of the value involved . 
Applications should be made in the form prcscribed 
for import of Capital Goods . 


( 2 ) Applications for import of other printing 
machinery should be made to the Chief Controller of 
Imports & Exports , New Delhi, where the value of 
the machinery to be imported does not exceed Rs. 1 
croro (cif ) and to the Secretariat for Industrial Ap 
provals , Ministry of Industry , New Delhi where the 
valuc exceeds Rs, 1 crore . 

(3 ) Printing machinery imported by Projects & 
Equipmcats Corporation Ltd . under rupee payment 
arrangements will be distributed to cligible Actual 
Users by the Projects & Equipments Corporation on 
the basis of Releaso Advice issued by the licensing 
authority . In such cases also import applications 
should be made to the Chic Cretroller of Imports & 
taxporta , New Delhi, or the Secretariat for Industrial 
Approval , the car y bue 


( 2 ) Applications will be considered , on meriti, 
having regard to indigenous production . The CCI & E , 
New Delhi will formulate suitable guidelines in 
consuliation with ikiz Adorinistrative Ministry and the 
technical authorities t eruds That import for 
allowed to the ( ricot he clemand not x met from 
the indigenous sources 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SEC . 1 ] 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Import of Capital Goods by Government Departments 
and Pablic Sector Enterprises 

46 . Facilities for import of capital goods by Gov 
ernment Departments, Departmentally run Under 
takings and Public Sector Enterprises are given in 
Chapter VII of this Book . 


Import of Capital Goods by Non -Resident Indians 
Persons of Indian Origin 


(vii) import of second - band machinery in respect 

of items appearing in Appendix I Part B 
can be made under Open General Licenco 
without any value limit. Import of second 
hand machinery items other than those in 
Appendix 1 Part B , which were in actual 
use of the applicant, will be considered on 
liberal basis . Import of second -hand 
machinory which has not been in actual use 
of the applicant may also be considered , 
on merits . Import of machinery having 
expected residual life of less than ; years 
and also machinery more than 7 years old 
will not be allowed . However, import of 
second- hand paper mill machinery and 
cigarette making machinery will not be 
allowed under these provisions; 


47 . Non -resident Indians /persons of Indian origin 
who wish to return home for permanent settlement will 
be allowed to import Capital Goods subject to the 
following conditions : 


( i) they undertake to set up a new industry 

which conforms to the Government indus 
trial policy in force or participate in the 
expansion or diversification of an existing 
unit within the framework of industrial 
policy ; or they wish to set up a servicing 
unit; 


( viii ) import of generating set of above 500 KVA 

rating, purchased out of applicant s own 
foreign exchange earnings and resources 
abroad , may also be allowed ; 


( ii ) import of Capital Goods (new or second 

hand ) purchased out of their own foreigo 
exchange savings and resources abroad will 
be allowed ; 


( ix ) Import of office equipment purchased out 

of the applicant s forcign exchange carnings 
and resources abroad , and furniture which 
was in use by the applicant abroad , may 
be allowed , provided the total value of both 
these items does not exceed Rupees one lakh 
c.l. f. (when dew ) and these are required 
for use in the applicant s industry in India ; 


( iii ) import of professional equipment (new or 

second -hand ) , purchased out of the 
applicant s own foreign exchange earnings 
and resources abroad, and used by the 
applicant abroad for at least one year before 
returning to India , may be allowed ; if such 
equipment has not been used by the 
applicant abroad for at least one year, its 
import will be limited to Rupees one lakh 
in value ( c.i.t.) ; 


( 1 ) import of computer system may also be 

allowed in cases where the applicant has 
been using it abroad for at least one year 
before returning to India provided its c.i.f. 
value is not more than Rs. 10 lakhs, whether 
now or old or whero computer is an integral 
built - in part of the equipment being allowed 
for import; 


( iv ) import of restricted capital good , may also 

be allowed on merits provided the machin 
nery , in question, has been wholly owned 
and used abroad by the applicant for at 
least two years before returning to India , 
For this purpose, tho applicant will have 
to produce evidence of purchase and use ; 


( xi ) import of prototype, purchased out of the 

applicant s own foreign exchange earnings 
and resources abroad , may also be allowed ; 


(xii ) import of cement, purchased out of 

applicant s own foreign exchange earnings 
and resources abroad , and required for 
construction of factory building, may also 
be allowed ; 


(v ) import of texturising machines and warp 

knitting machines will not be allowed under 
theso provisione ; 


( vi ) import of new capital goods listed in 

Appendix 1, Part B can be made under Open 
General Licence without any value limit ; 


( viil) the benefit of concchional rate of customs 

duty as admiuible to project imports may 
be allowed in these cases in consultation 
with technical tributia concrmaal ; 


(HT 1 - 21] 


भारत का राजपत्र . असाधारण 


15 


Yumm 


! Uv ) geither the capital invested oor the profits 

would be allowed to be repatriated abroad ; 


and ( ii) other items as permissible under these 
provisions, the applicants will be required to obtain 
Import licences. (Import of machinery mentioned in 
sub - para 47 (v ) above will not be allowed under OGL 
or otherwise under these provisions ) 


( xv ) po permission to sell the Capital Goods 

will be allowed for a period of 5 years 
from the date of import Thereafter, such 
sale may be made , only with the prior per 
mission of the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exporta , New Delhi. 


( 3 ) In cases where the Non -resident Indian / person 
of India origin desires to obtain a Customs Clearance 
Permit in respect of items, which are otherwise allow 
ed for import under Open General Licence , with a 
view to availing of concessional rate of July under 
*Project Import facility , whereves eligible , le may 
apply for issue of CCP 


4811 ). Non -resident Indians / persons of lodian 
origin , who are allowed to import machinery into India 
upder the provisions made in para 47 above (excluding 
generating sets, office equipment, computer system , 
second -hand machinery other than those in Appendix 1 
Part- B and prototypes ), will be allowed to import such 
machinery without an import licence (i.e . under 
OGL ) for a value not exceeding Rs, 20 lakhs (landed 
cost ). At the time of clearance through customs, 
they shall furnisb a declaration that : 


( 4 ) Application for import of ( erpital Goods 
should be made in the form specifically proscibed for 
this purpose in Chapter III of the Hand Book of 
Import-Export Procedures 1985 - 98 . These applicants 
should be made to Special Approvals Committee 
(NRI), Department of Industrial Development, Udyog 
Bhavan , New Delhi. 


(i) the imported machinery shall be used in 

the industry being set up by the importer 
in India or for use in the industry in India 
in which the importer will be investing, in 
accordance with the policy in force . 


(1 ) 


The industry , in which the imported 
machinery shall be used , will not have a 
total capital investment in plant and 
Machincry of a value more than the upper 
limit fixed for small scalo industries , in 
para 7 ( 5 ) of Import and Export Policy 
(Vol. I) for 1985 - 88 . 


( 5 ) Applications for the grant of industrial licence 
in the prescribed form IL duly tilled in with 14 spare 
copies and proposal for foreign collaboration will 
also be considered by the Special Approvals Committee 
( NRI) . Every proposal so received from a non 
resident Indian / person of Indian oigin would be con 
udered on a composite basis including issue of indus 
trial licences, where necessary , Government s decision 
will be communicated to the applicant within a period 
of 45 dayo 


( üi) The imported machinery has been purchased 

out of importer s earnings /resources abroad , 
and does not involve any remittance from 
India . 


(6 ) "The industrial units cucerned ( if they are 
new ) will be required to get themselves registered with 
the sponsoring authorities concerned , except in cases 
referred to in sub - paras ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) above, within 
a period of one year from the date of import of 
Capital Goods, in accordance with the policy laid 
down, 


( iv ) The import shall be subject to Actual 

User condition and other conditions as 
applicable to non - resident Indians under 
the proviisons of the impot policy in force , 


Special Schepc for Electronics Industry 


( v ) Within three months of the date of clearance 

trom the customs, the importer sball inform 
about the import of the machinery , in 
question , to the Director of ludustries of the 
State in which the machinery shall be used 


49 ( 1). Non - resident Inaiana / persoas ol Indian 
origir returing home for permanent settiement and 
setting up an electronic industry , or investing in 
an electronics industry in India, including their invest 
nent for the cipanstva , diversification of modernisa 

on ol au cxistiog electronics industry , wul be allowed 
o import ma .hinery for this purpose under Open 
General Liconco . 


( 2 ) Import of rotiricicd Capita ! Coout appeurng 
12 Aprcadlı I Put A of import policy will not be 
allowed under OGL for the import of such Capital 
Gods vnd also for impart of ( 1 ) obies Capilar xid s 


( 2 ) Ihin scheme will « pply to be loduseres 
wanufacturiag (1 ) cleationic componenty ( other than 

SI, VISI ) . 176 ) IT ET41 / 43 - 011 1111 ) ( 30 % recorders, 


16 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART |- - Sec . 1] 


Import of Capital Goods against REP licences 


50 ( 1 ) . An Actual User ( Industrial ) may be allowed 
to utilise REP licence (s) for import of Capital Goods / 
prototypes in the manner stated below : 


( iv ) Two-in -one , (v ) Hi Fi equipment, (vi) electronic 
teaching aids , ( vii ) industrial and process control 
systems, (vii ) major sub -systems of radars, naviga 
tional aids and communication equipment, 
(ix ) electronic medical equipment, but the scheme will 
not cover manufacture of computers. In the case of 
units manufacturing radars , navigational aides and 
communication equipment, the units concerned will be 
required to obtain specific prior approval of the 
Department of Electronics, New Delhi, before taking 
up manufacture . 


(a ) 


( 3 ) There will be no upper value limit for Capital 
Goods to be imported under OGL for the above 
mentioned industries. No indigenous clearance will 
also be necessary for import. At the time of clearance 
through customs, the importer shall furnish a declara 
tion that : 


A manufacturer -exporter may be allowed 
to utilise REP licence (s) issued to him 
against his own exports of the select pro 
ducts manufactured by bim , for the import 
of Capital Goods / prototypes without the 
recommendation of the sponsoring authority 
concerned , without indigenous clearance and 
without the advertisement procedure being 
followed , provided (i) the machinery 10 
be imported does not appear in Appendix 
1 Part A in this policy, ( ii) the applicant 
declares that the machinery , in question , 
shall not result in exceeding his licensed / 
approved capacity and ( iii ) the import of 
machinery shall be subject to Actual User 
condition . The value upto which such im 
ports will be allowed shall be related to the 
percentage and volume of production of 
Select Products exported . These values are 
given below , separately for SSI units and 
for Non -SSI units seeking to avail of this 
facility : 


(i) The imported machinery shall be used in the 

industry being set up by the importer in 
India or for use in the industry in India in 
which the importer will be investing , in ac 
cordance with the policy in force . 


( ü ) The imported machinery has been purchased 

out of importer s carnings /resources abroad , 
and does not involve any remittance from 
India . 


% ave of 
production 
oxportod 


Minimum FOB value Maxmum CIF value 
of exports by of imports allowed 

to 
SSI units Non - SSI SSI units Non -SSI 
units 

uoits 


( ii) The import shall be subject to Actual 

User condition and other conditions as 
applicable to non -resident Indians under tho 
provisions of the import policy in force, 


10 to below 25 . 


5 


23 to below 50 


15 


40 
GO 


50 to below 75 


30 


45 


75 and above 


40 


100 


20 


75 


( iv ) Within three months of the date of clearance 

from the customs, the importer shall inform 
about the import of the machinery , in 
question , to the Department of Electronics, 
Lok Nayak Bhawan , Khan Market, New 
Delhi with a copy to the Director of 
Industries of the State in which the 
machinery shall be used 


(Rs. lo lakha) 


(Rs. lo laktis ) 


(b ) 


( 4 ) No permission for sale of Capital Goods will 
be allowed for a period of five years from the date 
of import. Thereafter, sale may be made only with 
the prior permission of the CCI& E , New Delhi. The 
units concerned will be required to get themselves 
registered with the sponsoring authorities concerned 
in accordance with the policy laid down within a 
period of one your trum the date of import of Capital 
Quods, 


The facility availablo in sub -para (a ) above, 
will also be allowed to manufacturer 
exportot, whose export performance during 
any of the two previous financial years is 
not less than Rs. 1 crore but who has not 
achieved the minimum export percentage of 
his production indicated in sub - para ( a ) 
above, subject to the same conditions, pro 
vided that the c.i.f. value of capital goods / 
prototypos (Including instruments and tools ) 
to be imported does not exceed Rs. 5 lakhs 
in the case of SSI units or Rs . 20 lakhs in 
the case of non -SSI units 


[ATT I - EC 11 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


17 


LEM . . 


. 


VW 


( c ) The facility available in sub - para (a ) above 

will also be allowed to manufacturer - expor 
ters , subject to the same conditions, irres 
pective of their level of export performance, 
provided that the c.i. f. value of equipment 
( including instruments and tools) to be im 
ported does not exceed Rs. two lakhs during 
the licensing year. 


( d ) The facility in sub -para (a ) above will also 

be available to a manufacturer-exporter 
whose exports of select products, in any of 
the two previous financial years were less 
than the limits mentioned in (a ) above , but 
in his case , the import will be subject to 
indigenous clearance from the DGTD , or 
the Textile Commissioner, or the Jute Com 
missioner, as the case may be . Other con 
ditions stated above will also apply . Such 
units will also be eligible to facility in ( c ) 
above . 


(e) In cases not covered by (a ), (b ), (c) and (d ) 

above, i.e , where the machinery is to be 
imported against REP licences other than 
those issued on own exports of the appli 
cant of the products manufactured by him , 
and / or its c .i.f. value exceeds the prescribed 
upper value limits , the normal CG procedu 
re will apply , if the REP licence is sought 
to be utilised for import of machinery / pro 
totypes . 


( h ) A manufacturer-exporter intending to I 

port machinery under sub - para (a ) above, 
may be allowed to import the same, subject 
to prescribed conditions , against his own 
valid REP licence(s) or against valid REP 
licence ( s) acquired by him , by transfer, in 
accordance with the import policy in force . 
Other conditions as laid down will apply . 
This facility will be in relaxation of the 
provision made in sub - para (e ) above, in 
so far as manufacturer-exporter , covered 

under sub - para (a ) are concerned . 
(2 ) Maufacturer -exporters may be allowed to 
utilise upto 20 per cent of the f.o .b . value of their 
exports of wooden furniture and parts thereof for 
import of machinery required by them . A list of items 
of machinery to be allowed for import is given in 
Appendix 14 . Import licences issued under this pro 
vision will be available in respect of exports made 
from 1st April of the licensing year. Import 
applications can be made on quarterly or half- yearly 
or annual basis as the exporter may desire. The 
import application should also be accompanied by a 
hank certificate showing the description of the product 
exported , the date of export and the f.o .b , value . It 
will be necessary for the applicant to produce 
recommendation of the sponsoring authority for this 
purpose . 

(3) The facility available in sub -pará (2 ) above, 
will also be allowed to the manufacturer-exporters of 
" moulded wooden products" subject to the same 
conditions. The import of items listed at Sl. Nos. 9 , 
11 , 12 , 13 and 15 of Appendix 14 of this policy will 
not, however, be allowed . 
Import of Capital Goods by Export Houses / Trading 
Houses 

51. Export Houses / Trading Houses will be granted 
the following facilities under this policy : 
(i) Import of Capital Goods placed on Open 

General Licence in the manner met down 
hereunder ; 
Import of Capital Goods AgriOK: REP / 
Additional licences to cnable them to set up 
common servicing centres for the benefit of 
their supporting manufacturers and other 
exporting units . Applications for such import 
will be considered by the wbiet Controller 
of Imports and exporta ( EP DI Section ), 
New Delhi in the 6 * Ban Houses 
and by kia iegt you f * "" hari* ir : 11 
the case ) 17 * * **** Nees , ir kainaulatt ? 
with the technical authority 60corned . 


In all the above types of cases, bulking of 
valid REP licences will also be allowed to 
enable the licence holders to consolidate 
their value for the purpose of import of 
machinery under these provisions for a 
period of 3 years as per para 187 (2 ) ( e ) of 
the Hand Book . 


( g ) The facility allowed in sub - para (a ) above , 

will also be available to a manufacturer, 
pone of whose products qualifies for REP 
entitlement in Appendix 17 , although the 
f.o .b . value of his exports of such products 
manufactured by him during the preceding 
licensing year was not less than 25 % of the 
gross value of his output and also not less 
than Rs. 5 .0 lakhs (f.o .b .) in value, provid 
ed the c.i.f. value of the machinery allowed 
during the licensing year is not more than 
5 % of the 1.0 .b . value of his exports , subject 
to maximum of Rs. 20 lakhs. Other 
conditions ( 1) , (ii ) and ( lii ) laid down in 
pub - para ( a ) above shall equally apply . 


18 


THE GAZETTL OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART 1 - SEC . 11 


(2 ) REP licences, against which Expori Huuses / 
Trading Houses wish to take advantage of the facility 
provided in sub - para ( 1 ) above, shall be 001 
transferable . 


( ui) Expori lloes Trading Housmay also be 

allowed to impoil non -OGL Capital Goods 
(other than those in Appendix 1 Part A ) 
upto Rs. 20 lakhs ( cif) during a licensing 
period , subject to indigenous clearance , 
against REP licences /Additional licences. 
The imported goods will be disposed of to 
Actual Users (Industrial) in the same 
manner as laid down in para 263 (4 ). Appli 
cations for such iinport will be considered by 
the regional licensing authorities concerned 
in consultation with DGTD . 


(3 ) Export Houses, Trading Houses, who wish iu 
take advantage of this facility , should get the licences 
concerned endorsed by the licensing authority as 
under : 


* This Luence will also be valu jos impuit 18 

Capital Goods ( listed in Appendix ! 
Part - B ) under para 52 of this Policy, 
subject to the conditions laid down , and 
shall be non - transferable . " 


( 4 ) Disposal of capital goods will be governed by 
the provisions in para 263 (4 ) Chapter XXI of this 
policy . 


Import of Capital Goods against Additioual Licences 
by Export Houses / Trading Houses 

53 ( 1 ) . Additional Licences will be valid for import 
of Capital Goods listed in Appendix 1 Part- B . This 
facility will be subject to the same conditions as laid 
down in para 52 except that the endorsement referred 
to in sub - para 52 ( 3 ) will not be required in the case 
of Additional Licences which are already non 
transferable . 


Note : - Under this provision , second -hand capi 

tal goods will not ordinarily be allowed for 
import. However, if an Export House / 
Trading House wants to import second -hand 
machinery for supply to a particular Actual 
User (Industrial), it should give to the 
licensing authority complete particulars of 
Actual User (industrial) and the justification 
for import of second -hand machinery by 
the Actual User , apart from the Chartered 
Engineer s Certificate ili respect of the 
second -hand machinery to be impoited and 
other documents , if any , as required for 
import of second- band machinery under the 
import policy in force . DGTD will also 
examine the need and essentiality for im 
port of the machinery in question for the 
concerned Actual User n med by the Export 
House / Trading House , apart from examin 
ing the machinery from indigenous angle. 
The import, if allowed in such cases, will be 
on the express condition that the machinery 
shall be disposed of only to Actual Users 
for whom it has been cleared by DGTD 
and shall be subject to cher prescribed con 
ditions. Foi the puipose of debit to the 
overall ceiling of Rs. 20 lakhs (cif), the 
current cif value of the jew machine of the 
same description shall be takeſi, and oot the 
value actualy paid , where the machinery to 
be imported is second -hand or used . For 
this purpose , the Export House / Trading 
House will also produce profo :wa iavoice 
of the new machine of the saint / equivalent 
description to the licensing authority . 


( 2 ) Goods impcried by Export Houses / Trading 
Houses against Additional licences will be disposed 
of by them in the same manner and subject to samo 
conditions as laid down in para 263 (4 ) of this policy , 


Import of machinery by Units in Free Trade Zones 
and by 100 % Export Oriented Units 


54 . The policy for import of Capital Goods by 
100 % Export Oriented Units and by units located in 
Free Trade Zoues is given in Appendix 23 of ihis 
Book . 


Import of Capital Goods by AU (Non - Industria ) 
R & D Units 

55 . Any Research and Developwooruml / out 
scientific or research laboratory, any institution of 
higher education or # hospital, recognised by the 
Central or a State Governmcat, will be cügible to 
import its requirements of machinery , equipment, 
instruments and accessories ( bui meconsumer gunde, 
howsoever , described and office machines ) under Open 
Gener ! * * * * experiencea n d comes 

place 


Import of Capital goods placed on OGL 

52 ( 1 ). Export Houscs / Trading Houses will be 
allowed to import Capital GoX1,5 (lood in Appendix 1 


ogni volta fram 


einungis 


** 


plert mir wn in onry on MW 


ter 


| arol: 


भाग्न का जान अमापारग 


(977 | - - C8 1] 


19 


Consultancy, Designing and Engineering Firms 


56 . Import of Capital Goods is allowed to 
Consultancy , Designing and Engineering Firms. 
Details are given in Chapter VIII of this Book . 


( B ) Huwever, second - hand CODILLier, compater 
based ystems shall not be permitted under OGL 
provision . Customs duty on OGL import will be 
levied on the assessed value 


(3 ) Import of computer and computer pasea systems 

of cif value Rs 10 lakhs and above 


Import of machinery by hotels 

57 . Tourist hotels ( one - star to five -star ) requiring 
items other than spares should make import applica 
tions to the Chief Controller of Impoits and Exports , 
New Delhi, through the Director General of Tourism , 
New Delhi. Licences will be granted on his 
recommendation only . Import may not, however , be 
allowed in respect of items available from indigenous 
sources. 


Import of computer /computer- based systems cost 
ing Rs 10 lalhs ( cif) or above will require prior 
clearance of the Department of Electronics, who will 
look into the desilability of the end application , 
essentiality, inkligenous angle etc For such imports , 
special proceduies laid down by the Department of 
Electronics will be followed . All Actual Useis have , 
therefore , to apply to the Department of Electronics 
( Computer, Computer -Communication and Instru 
mentation Wing ) . E - Wing, Pushpa Bhavan , 
Madangir Road , New Delhi- 110062 for import 
clearance , 


Import of Computer Systems 

58 . ( 1 ) For the purposes of imports, computer 
systems have been classified into two categories : one 
for computer systems costing less than Rs. 10 lakhs 
( cif) and the second category for computer systems 
costing Rs. 10 laklis ( cií ) and above . 


( 4 ) The policy mentioned in sub - paras ( 1 ) to ( 3 ) 
above will also apply to computer systems proposed 
for import by all R & D Organisations, whether these 
be enterprises or otherwise , educational institutions, 
hospitals & such other organisations wbich are other 
wise eligible to import their requirements on OGL 
basis . 


(2 ) Import of computer and computer systems cost 

ing less than Rs. 10 lakhs (cif) 
( A ) All persons would be allowed to inport 
computer systems for their own use (but not for 
stock and sale purposes ) , at a lower rate of import 
duty , after obtaining prior clearance of the Depart 
bent of Electronics who would examine such pro 
posals from the desirability of the end application , 
essentiality of import and indigenous angle etc . 
Import of computer systems costing less than Rs. 10 
lakhs ( oif ) will also be allowed to all persons, for their 
own use (but not for stock and sale purposes ) , under 
OGL by paying higher rate of import duty , For 
OGL import, the importer would be required to 
import following minimum configuration in one con 
signment : 


( 5 ) Prior clearance of the Department of Electo 
nics will not be necessary for import of computer / 
computer systems by Non Resident Indians, under 
the provisions made in para 47 above of this policy. 


(6 ) Clearance of Department of Electronics will 
also not be required where computer is a built-in 
integral part of the equipment 


Each Ccatral Processing Unit will include 


Software and adequate 


(i) Operating System 

memory therefor. 


59 ( 1) Import of Computer SF# 1 allowed 
subejct to export obligation as pauvided in Para 
187 ( 2 ) of the Hand Book of Import-Export Proce 
dures, 1985 – 88. For purposes of augmenting their 
export capability Computer software exporters , after 
discharging Ge expurt obligation referred to above , 
bay be grapid imper , licence Ecuat u 50 per cent of 
ue foieru unge arbie " UIK If ni of computer 
suiiware allu iclul turcou uvek ud above the 
specified expult obligation In case su exporters not 
subject to an ex. nl obligation mixo , isoport licenco 
tas be pwme : 70* . ( PI & on change 


(ii) Computer console . 


( i ) Two disk / cartridge / tape drives and associat 

ed controller (excluding floppy and cassette 
drives ) . 


( iv ) One pilater with platen 


width 80 pro 


r 


eal est 


le 


Y 


* 


Juvumble 


- - 


= 


= 


- - - = 


- - - - 


- 


- = - = 


v = 


20 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

[PART I - SEC . 1] 
- - - - - - - 

- - - = = = - = = - - - - 
to Category A , B and C which are defined as ( 6 ) Import licence and the goods and the system 
under : 

imported against such licences will be subject to 

* Actual User Condition . The items imported will 
Category A : Where the applicant undertakes be used for the development of coinputer software 

to export software of f.o .b . value equal to and will not be allowed to be transferred by way of 
twice the c.i.l. value of import allowed . 

loan , sale , pledge or otherwise for a period of 5 years 

from the date of import. 
Category B : Where an applicant imports com 
puter system out of his own foreign ex 

( 7 ) Concerned exporter will be allowed to accumu 
chang earnings abroad and undertakes to 

lalo upto a period of three years part value of the full 
export sotiwaro of f.o .b , value equal to the 

value of import entitlements aceruing under this 
ci.f. value allowed , 

provision as per para 187 (2 ) ( e ) of the Hand Book 

of Import-Export Procedures, 1985 - 88 for availing 
Category C : Where an applicant imports com 

of the facility mentioned in sub - para ( 8 ) below , 
puter systein for the purpose of enhancing 
modifying system hardware and / or softwarc 

( 8 ) Such import licences may also be ulilised IvI 
against a specific export order, with the 

import of data preparation system and new computer 
condition that the imported computer 

systems, iclatcd hardware, software and peripherals. 
systems shall be rc -exported after the export 

The request for import of such itemsmay be made to 
order has been executed . In such cases the licensing authority concerned . The licensing 
imported computer systems shall not be 

authority will obtain the recommendation of the 
used for any domestic work , 

Department of Electronics. The Department of 

Electronics will convey their recommendation to the 
( 2 ) Only such export earnings will be taken into licensing authority concerned within six weeks of the 
account for determining the value of licence as have recoipt of such reference. Licences issued under this 
accrued on export of software and related services sub -para will be subject to the following conditions : - - 
made on or after 1st April of the licensing year . 

(1) Import of the items mentioned above will be 
(3 ) Import licences may be issued for the import 

subject to export obligation of 100 % of the 
of : 

c.i.f, value of such items to be imported . 
(i) Hardware (excluding replacement or aug 

( 11) Before the clearance of first consignment, tho 

applicant will be required to execute a bond 
ncatation of the Central Processing Unit 

with the licensing authority in the prescribed 
( C .P . U .) but including augmentation of the 

forn backed by a bank guarantee under 
memory of the C . P .U .] software and peri 

taking to export equal to 100 per cent of the 
pherals for purposes of augmenting existing 

c .i.f. value of items imported . 
computer / computer related systems. 

( ii ) The export obligation will be discharged 
(i ) Testing equipment related to the export 

over a period of maximum five years con 
capability. 

mencing from the date of clearance of the 

first consignment. It will further be a con 
( iii ) Software tools such as cross assembleis, de 

dition that the export to be made in dis 
assemblers, do-compilers, compiler pro 

charge of the obligation shall be achieved 
gramme gencrators , flow - chart generators , 

in the following manner : 
debugging and diagnostic tools, performance 
evaluation and monitoring tools . 

( a ) 20 % of the total export obligation at 111e 

end of 2nd year. 
( iv ) Consumables and supplies related to the ex 
port capability . 

( b ) 40 % of the total export obligation at the 
( 4 ) Prior approval of Department of Electronics 

end of 3rd year. 
will not be required by the licensing authority for 

( 0 ) 60 % of the total export obligation at the 
allowing import of the above items, 

end of 4th year, 
( 5 ) Applius.lvu . B inide t he lacudi letos 

ul, 100 . pt the total espout obligation at the 
authomly onerne . 

end of 5th year. 


[457 ] - 51] भारत का रामपत्र असाधारण 

21 
- - - - - - -- - - - - 

- - = - - = - - = - - - - - - 
( iv ) Immat 1160204 and the goods and the Ag measure of procedural simplification , the intenu 

syston imported against such Licences will ing importers will not be required to advertise the 
be subject to " Actual User " condition and 

machiners sought to be imported , before applying for 
will not be allowed to be transferred by 

the licence. Such applications will also not be placed 
way of loan , sale, pledge or otherwise for a 

hefore the concerned Capital Goods Committee . They 
period of 5 years from the date of import. 

will , however, be subject to indigenous clearance by 

DGTD . 
(9 ) In cases where the importer of a computer sys 
tem fails to comply with the conditions subject to (6 ) Import applications under sub- para (5 ) above 
which the import is allowed , he will be liablo to action may also be considered by the Co -ordination Com 
under the Imports & Exports ( Control) Act, 1947 , mittee on the recommendation of Export Promotion 
as amended , Imports / Exports ( Control) Orders and Division in the Ministry of Commerce, New Delhi, 
other provisions connected therewith . 

Import of Machinery /Equipment for Development of 
Imports of machinery for agricultural development and Sports 
food processing Industries 

61 ( 1 ). Applications for import of sports goods/ 
60 ( 1 ). A number of machinery items required for equipment not indigenously avajlable, will be con 
development of food processing, meat processing, ege sidered from Central and State Government Organi 
and poultry processing and fish processing industries, sations dealing with sports, Educational Institutions / 
packaging machinery required for technological up Universities, Associations of sportsmen , sports clubs 
gradation , and machinery required for transportation and eminent sportsmen , duly sponsored and 
of frozen foods, have been allowed import under Open recommended by the Central or State Government 
General Licence in Appendix 1 Part B of import department concerned . 
policy. 

(2 ) Applications may be made to the Chief 
( 2 ) Import of gibberellic acid and grape guard Controller of Imports & Exports, New Delhi in the 
paper has been allowed under OGL to State Agricul form prescribed for this purpose in Appendix III- B 
tural Development Corporations, Co -operative of the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 
Societies of farmers and Associations of farmers re 1985 - 88 through the concerned sponsoring authority . 
cognised by the State Government, for distribution The sponsoring authority , before recommending the 
to grapo growers. ( Please see Appendix 6 ) . 

import, will obtain indigenous clearance from DGTD 

( Import & Export Policy Cell ), Udyog Bhavan , New 
( 3 ) Import of fishing hooks and permissible spares Delbi. In respect of the items listed in Appendix 11 
for trawlers have becn allowed under OGL for all of this Book , it will not be necessary to obtain 
persons. ( Please see Appendix 6 ) . 

indigenous clearance from DGTD . 


( 4 ) Import of grape guard paper will also be 
allowed on REP licences issued against exports of 
fresh fruits , vegetables and flowers . (Please sce 
Appendix 17 ) . 


(3 ) Applications involving value beyond Rs. 1 .0 
lakh will be placed before the Inter- Departmental 
Committeo . 


Import of diesel generatiog sets 


(5 ) Applications for import of machinery , Green 
Houses and other items required for agricultural 
development, not indigenously available , will be con 
sidered by the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports, New Delhi, on the recommendation of the 
State Government concerned . Applications should 
be made in the form prescribed for this purpose in 
Appendix JII- D of the Hand Book of Import- Export 
Procedures, 1985 – 88 , through the Department of 
Agricutture of the State Government concerned . Such 
Applications will be examined by the Co- ordination 
Committee headed by the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports referred to in Chapter XII of this Rook . 


62 ( 1 ) . Applications will be considered for the 
grant of licences for the import of diesel generating 
sets of rating above 1000 KVA . Applications for 
diesel generating sets in the range from above 
500 KVA to 1000 KVA will also be considered on 
merits, depending upon the delivery schedule from 
indigenous sources. Eligible actual users may submit 
their applications 10 the CCI & E ( C .G . Cell ), New 
Delhi, direct upto a value of Rs, 1 crore ( c.i.f.) and to 
the Secretariat for Industrial Approval, Ministry of 
Industry , New Delhi fur higher value , 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

[ PART [-- Sec. 1] 
- - - = - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - -- - - - 
( 2 ) 

vit lui IDJMY I i X Vcts uplo independent Chartered Engacorduly UITHOR . 
500 KVA will not be couidered . 

Institute in the country from which import is made, 

indicating : 
(3) Import oi electrio portable generators upto , 
3.5 KVA 16 restricted . Applications for import of 

(i) name of the manufacturer of the plant and 
higher rating will be governed by normal C .G . proce 

machinery ; 
dure, 

(ü ) year of manufacture ; 
( 4 ) Application may be made in the form and ( üi) present condition of the plant and machinery 
manner laid down in Chapter III of the Hand Book 

and its expected residual life ; ( Import of 
of Import- Export Procedures , 1985 – 88 . 

machinery having expected residual life of 

less than 5 years and also machinery more 
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR IMPORT OF 

than 7 years old will not be allowed ) ; 
CAPITAL GOODS 

( iv ) the c.i.f. value of equivalent capital goods, 
Import of Capital Goods through NSIC and other 

if purchased new ; 
Small Industries Corporations 

(v ) nature of reconditioning / repair done , if any , 

and the date ( s ) on which these were carried 
63 ( 1 ). National Small Industies Corporatiou of 

out ; and 
India Ltd . and such ( State ) Small Industries Corpo 
rations as are approved by the Development Com 

( vi) opinion regarding the price asked for by the 
missioner (Small Scala Industries ), Government of 

suppliers and the basis for such opinion . 
India, for this purpose niay also be allowed to import 
Capital Goods other than those listed in Appendix 1 (2 ) Import of second -hand machinery which is 
Part A for sale to cligible actual users in SSI sector. older than 7 years and have less than 5 years expected 
Import applications may he made to the Chief Con residual life will not be allowed , 
troller of Imports & Exports, New Delhi, 

Flexibility 
Import of machinery by State Agro- Industries Corpo 

65 . Capital Goods licence issued to a project 
ration 

will be valid for the import of any item of capital 
( 2 ) State Agro - Industries Corporations may be goods not already covered by it , provided the item 
allowed to import agricultural machinery and spares 

is needed for the expeditious completion of the 
on the recommendation of the State Government con 

project, and its value does not exceed 5 % of the value 
cerned for sale to eligible actual users, Applications 

of the licence , subject to a maximum of Rs. 25 lakhs , 
may be made to the Chief Controller of Imports & 

within the overall value of the licence. Under this 
Exports, New Delhi, 

facility , import of restricted items of capital goods 
will not be permitted . This facility will be available 

on Capital Goods licences issued to those projects 
Import of Capital Goods financed by Leasing COB 

which are eligible for concessional rate of duty as 
panley 

provided for in Chapter VIII of the Hand Book of 
(3 ) Applications for import of Capital Goods Import-Export Procedures , 1985 _ - 88 . 
including those , import of which is allowed under 
Open General Licence, received from Actual Users 
having leasing agreement with a leasing company will 
be considered by the Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports. Details are given in Chapter III of the Hand 
Book of Import & Export Procedures , 1985 - - 88 . 

CHAPTER IV 
Import of Second -hand machinery 

CANALISATION OF IMPORTE 
64 ( 1 ) . Import of second -hand machinery may also 
be allowed under OGL In respect of the Capital Goods 

66 . The items canalised for ittiport through desig 
listed in Aprendix I Part - B . In such cases , howevor , 

mated public sector agencies are listed in Appendix 5 
the importer will produce to the customs authority at 

Part A and Part B . The concerned agency will import 
the time of clearance a certificate from a professional 

them under Open General Licence 


[ATT I - 1] 

भारत का राजपन्न . असाधारण 
- =S S 

= - = -= - = - - - - - — - - — - . -- - - - - - - - - - - - - = = = 
01. Whcacvor vorlage act appichcoded Monitoring Committee 
in respect of any item , the import of which is not 

72 . In order to oversee the workiog of the scheme 
permitted , its import may be uranged by the Chicf 

of canalisation , there will be a Monitoring Committee 
Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi, through 

under the chainnanship of the Chief Controller of 
a public sector agency. In such a situation, the 

Imposts and Exports, and consisting of the members 
following provisions in this Chapter as well as those 

as mentioned in para 71 above . The actual quantum 
in Chapter IV of Hand - Book of Import- Export 

of items appearing in Appendix 5 , Part- A to be im 
Procedures, 1985 - - 88 will be as applicable thereto 

ported by the canalising agency will be decided by 
as if it were an item canalised for import. 

the administrative Ministry concerned in consultation 
68 . It shall be open to the canalising agency con 

with the Ministry of Commerce , the Department of 
cerned to sell the goods before their importation into Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Industry , other 
India . In such cases, the clearance of the imported Ministries / Department concerned and the canalising 
goods through the customs may be claimed by the 

agency. However, this Committee will continue to 
purchaser on the basis of an authorisation issued by 

review the arrangements made for meeting the regis 
the agency concerned to that effect. 

tered demands of the Actual Users from time to time. 

In cases of circumstances where the Committee 
69 . No Releasc Orders will be required by eligible considers it necessary or desirable to expedite supplies , 
Actual Users from the licensing or sponsoring autho it may recommend to the Chief Controller of Imports 
rity for obtaining their legitimate requirements of and Exports the issue of import licence ( s ) directly in 
these items from the canalising agency concerned . the namc (s ) of the concerned Actual Users (s ) . 
70 . ( 1) In the case of items being decanalised for 

Imports, distribution & pricing of items covered by 
import in this policy , persons who have already re 

Appendix 5 Part B 
gistered their demands with the concerned canalising 
agency will not be alowed to cancel their indents 

73 . Imports , distribution and pricing of the items 
except with the consent of the agency concerned . 

appearing in Appendix 5 Part-B will be governed by 

the connected policy of Government in the respective 
(2 ) In all cases where direct import of a canalised 

Ministries, as detailed therein . No other person will 
item is allowed to any person , it shall be a condition 

be eligible to import them unless otherwise specifically 
that the importer shall furnish particulars of the im 

licensed by the Chief Controller of Imports And 
ports made to the canalising agency concerned in the 

Exports, New Delhi. 
prescribed proforma appearing in Appendix IV F of 
the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 1985 -88 . 74 . The Monitoring Committee referred to jo 
At the time of clearance the importer will be required Para 72 above will also oversee the working of the 
to declare to the customs that these particulars regard scheme of canalisation in respect of items appearing 
ing the consignment sought to be cleared have been in Appendix 5 Part B . 
sent to the concerned canalising agency. Failure to 
comply with this requirement will entail penal action 

Supply of canalised items against valid licences 
under the imports control regulations, besides the 75 (1 ). REP licences are valid for direct imports 
stoppage of the facility to the licenco holder against 

of canalised items as are covered by them . Additional 
current licences and denial of further licences to him . 

licences issued to Trading Houses are also valid for 
Pricing Committee 

direct import of canalised items in Appendix 5 Part A 

to a limited extent as laid down in the policy . Actual 
71. There will be a Pricing Committee under the user licences are also valid for import of canalised 
chairmanship of the Chief Controller of Imports items in Appendix 5 Part A upto a limited extent 
and Exports, New Delhi, and consisting of the according to the provisions made in the import policy. 
representatives of the Department of Commerce , the 
Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic ( 2 ) REP licence holders (whether original licensee 
Afairs ), the Department of Steel, the Economic or transferee ) , "Trading Houses and Actual Users, 
Adviser in the Ministry of Industry , the Director holding valid import licences for direct import of 
Cleneral of Technical Development the Development çanalised items can , if they so desire , ohtain supplies 
Coinmitsiorcm istorell S l Induarrjes ) and the other out the canalised items concerned from the canalising 
adminimustive Muslitru ( 711xed with tho itern , for agercy , instead of importing the game from abroad , to 
determining /prescribing the selling prices of items the extent the item concerned can be importert 
# ppearing in Apcondir 5 Part - A from time to time directly against the licenco 


TUIL GAZIIL OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part ( Sec . 1] 


11. her ca “p4 ) Polic sale value of the quan 
ils of matcrial registered with the 
canalising agency or Rs. 50 ,000 whichever 
is less, in terms of para 216 of the Hand 
Book of Import-Export Procedc . 


1: 1 1 4 viinni * Sky" pply the protein ) 
upto the extent 07014 enero ( 11 , 9 La rice 
fixed by the concerned Pricing Connuitee . The import 
licence will ha debits1 by she ( analising agency to 
the extent of the grass is 1121 hit. Ive of the 
goods supplies . The 1: 00pm. In the canalising 
agency (excluding customs duty ) will be treated as the 
c .i.f. value of goods for the purpose of debit to the 
licence. The import licence will cease to be valid 
for direct import of canalised items to the extent 
supplies have been obtained from the canalising agency 
against the licence , 


( ii ) New units in these categories can register 

their requirements with the canalising 
agencies concerned covering a period of 15 
months instead of 12 months normally 
permissible ) so that such units have extra 
stock for 3 months at the start of operation 
This will be a one - time concession only , 


Import of canalised Items against REP licencos 

76 . The holder of a RET licence may effect direct 
import of those canalised items as appear in that 
licence, upto the extent permitted therein or which 
can be imported against the licence under any specific 
provision in this policy In such cases the con 
dition referred to in sub -para 70 (2 ) above will apply 


( iii ) Such units may be given weightage / priority 

at the time of actual allocation of imported 
goods by the canalising agencies, out of the 
total quantity registered by them . The 
canalising agencies will themselves evolve 
suitable guidelines for this purpose from 
time to time 


Flexibility 


CHAPTER V 


77 ( 1). In the case of items can lied for importu 
this policy , but which were not canalised in the pre 
ceding years , the eligible Actual Users may be allowed 
to make dircct imports to the extent of 25 % of the 
c .i.f. value of their actual consumption of that item 
(imported material only ) during any of the two pre 
vious years. Actual Users, wito wish to avail of this 
facility , should make their import applications to the 
licensing authorities concerned along with the required 
statement of consumption duly certified by a Chartered 
Accountant or Cost Accountant or Company Secretary 
or sponsoring authority. Such applications should be 
made so as to reach the licensing authorities concern 
ed not later than 15th May of the licensing year . Such 
Actual Users should register only their balance re 
quirements with the canalising agency concerned . 


IMPORT OF RAW MATERIALS , 
COMPONENTS AND CONSUMABLES 

BY ACTUAL USERS 


79 . The requirements of Actual Users ( Industrial ) 
in the matter of raw materials , components and con 
sumables will be met through the system of (i) Open 
General Licence , ( ii ) supplementary licensing set 
down in this Chapter, and ( iii ) allotment through 
canalising agencies as provided in Chapter IV . 


( 2 ) The facility referred to in sub - para ( 1) above 
will not be available in the case of items canalised for 
import in this policy, but which were in the list of 
limited permissible items or the list of restricted 
items in the preceding year. 


Facilities available for industries set up in the 
Backward Areas by Graduates / Diploma Holders in 
professional subjects or hy Ex -servicemen , Persons 
belonging to Scheduled Castes / Scheduled Tribes . 


Open General Licence 

80 ( 1). Raw materials , components and consum 
ables which do not appear in Appendices 2 , 3, 5 and 
8 of this policy, will be allowed to be imported under 
Open General Licence , subject to the conditions laid 
down . Actual Users will use this facility only to 
import such items as are in conformity with the 
respective provisions of their Industrial Licences or 
Registration Certificates, as well as the extent of 
indigenisation already achieved / to be achieved by 
them . (Please see Appendix 6 and Para 94 of this 
Book ) . 


78 . The following facilities will be available to the 
eligible units in the matter of canalised items : 
(i ) Such units will be required to pay earnest 

money at the rate of 10% (instead of 2 % as 


[ 191 1 - 


T 1] 


भारमका राजपन्न असाधारण 


25 


DGID and Textile machinery manufacturing units , 
please also see para 94 in this Book ). 


(2 ) A special procedure has been cvolved for 
import of components under Open General Licence 
by industrial units borne on the books of D .G . T .D . 
and Textile Commissioner. The concerned units shall 
have to comply with the procedure laid down , ( The 
details in this regard are contained in para 94 of this 
Chapter ) . 


( 2 ) Actual Users ( Industrial) applying for 
supplementy licencus should append to their import 
applications, a declaration duty signed by them , indi 
cating the description of raw materials , components , 
consumables and spares together with thcir c.i.f. value 
imported under Open General Licence during the 
preceding year . This declaration should be furnished 
in duplicatc ; and one copy thereof will be sent by the 
licensing authority to the sponsoring authority con 
cerned for necessary check / information . 


( 3 ) Import of chemical and allied items, under 
brand names, will not normally be allowed unless full 
description thereof along with specifications and 
chemical structure are furnished . Eligible importers 
desirous of importing any such item under Open 
Gencral Licencc are advised to clear it with the DGTD 
(I & E Policy Cell), New Delhi, before placing orders 
overseas . Import of consumables under brand names 
shall not be allowed under OGL . 


Supplementary Licences 

82 ( 1 ). Actual Users (Industrial) whose require 
inents of imported raw -materials , components , con 
sumables, consumable tools and spares cannot he fully 
met under the provisions for Open General Licence , 
may apply for grant of supplementary licences. 


(4 ) In the case of any professional grade electronic 
component, ( all ) importers should set down its inter 
nationally accepted specification in the invoice, so as 
to enable the customs authorities to satisfy themselves 
whether its clearance is permissible or not under 
OGL or otherwise , 


are 


( 5 ) Provisions regarding import of spares 
given in Chapter VI of this Book 


(2 ) Applications may be submitted in the pres 
crihet form and manner laid down in Chapter V of 
the Hand Book of Import- Export Procedures , 
1985 -88 , through the sponsoring authoritics as per pro 
cedure laid down in sub -para (3 ) below to the CCIE 
regional licensing uuthority within the area of wiose 
jurisdiction the factory of the applicant is located . 
However, an undertaking having factories located at 
more than one place , may, in its option , submit a con 
solidated application , for all its requirements , to the 
regional licensing authority within whose jurisdiction 
its own Registered /Head Office is situated 


(6 ) Import of scientific and measuring instrum . nts 
is governed by separate provisions made in Chapter III 
of this policy ; their import is not permitted under 
OGL . 


81(1 ) Every Actual User (Industrial) in whose 
case the phased manufacturing programme has been 
approved by the DGTD or other concerned authority 
should abide by the terms and conditions of phased 
manufacturing programme and furnish to that autho 
rity half -yearly returns of the items imported , their 
quantity and , value, item -wise and a report setting out 
the percentage of indigenisation achieved in his manu 
facturing programme. This would apply to all indus 
trial units whether in the large or the small scale scctor. 
Failure to comply with this requirement will render 
the Actual User ( Industrial ) liable to penal action 
under the Imports (Control ) Order, 1955 besides 
denial of further licences. The return for the half 
yearly period April – Septemher should reach the 
concerned authority by 31st October of the licensing 
year Similarly , the return for the half -yearly period 
October - March is to reach the concerned authority 
by the end of April of the next {icrosing rear ( For 
58 GI/ 8543. 


( 3 ) Applications for supplementary licences will 
be considered only on the recommendation of the 
conccdied sponsoring authorities and, therefore , should 
he routed through them . This should be accompanied 
hy the list of items and value of each item specifically 
sought to be imported . The reasons for additional 
or new requirements of raw materials, components , 
Consumables, consumable tools, or spares should be 
clearly set out in other with the unutilised value of 
cach of the licences in hand as on the date of the 
application . Any other information which the appli 
cant would himself like to present in regard to his 
cxport performance. p :oduction programme in hand , 
special requirements of any items for particular end 
proulucts, stocks in hand and in the pipe linc etc ., for 
the purposes of proper appreciation of his application , 
may also be sent. 

( 4 ) Actual Users (Industrial) , who came into 
cvjetence under the endlier licensing periods but had 
small or no consumption of imported raw -materials , 


26 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART I - SEC . 1 ] 


components and consumables in any of the two pre 
ceding financial years can also apply for supplementary 
licences, in accordance with the policy laid down. 


Industrial units exporting 50 per cent or more of their 
production 


( 5 ) Actual Users will be required to maintain a 
separate account of consumption of the raw -materials 
imported against supplementary licences . 


83 . Applications for iron and steel items can be 
made separately from those for other items subject to 
the provisions made in Para 82 above or the list with 
their item -wise value of iron and steel items to be 
imported should be given separately with the appli 
cation for supplementary licences made under Para 82 
above . 


85 . ( 1 ) Actual Users (Industrial) who exported at 
least 50 per cent of their production of select products 
( vide Appendix 16 ) in any of the two previous finan 
cial years, and obtained Export Performance Certifi 
cate from the Export Commissioner in the office of 
the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, New 
Delhi will be eligible to repeat operation of their sup 
plementary licences issued for the preceding licensing 
year in the manner laid down under para 84 above 
but in their case the value limit for direct import of 
canalised items as referred in sub -para 84 (2 ) shall be 
Rs. 2 lakhs. 


(2 ) For their further requirements, if any, such 
Actual Users may submit their applications through 
the sponsoring authority . 


Government Departments , Departmentally -run Under 
takings and Public Sector Enterprises 


86 . Facilities for import of raw materials , com 
ponents, consumables etc. by Government Depart 
ments, Departmentally- run Undertakings and Public 
Sector Enterprises are given in Chapter VII of this 


Book . 


Repeat Operation of Supplementary Licences 

84 ( 1 ). Actual Users (Industrial) who exported 
at least 25 % of their production of select products 
( vide Appendix 16 ) in any of the two previous finan 
cial years, subject to a minimum of Rs. 5 .0 lakhs in 
f.o .b . value , or industrial units which exported select 
products of atleast Rs. 1.0 crore in f. .b . value in 
any of the two previous financial years, and who 
obtained supplementary licences for the preceding 
licensing year will be allowed during the 
licensing year a repeat operation of the same licence , 
for the same value and the same items excluding items 
appearing in Appendix 2 with an additional period 
of shipment of 18 months available for utilisation of 
repeat value . For their eligibility to this facility , the 
Actual User concerned will be required to obtain 
Export Performance Certificate fiom the Export Com 
missioner in the Office of the CCI& E , New Delhi in 
the manner laid down in Chapter XIV . After obtaining 
such certificates, they should approach the licensing 
authority concerned for endorsement of their supple 
mentary licence for the preceding licensing year for 
the purpose of repeat operation . The additional 
period of 18 months for shipment in such cases will 
commence from the date the licence is endorsed by 
the licensing authority . 


Ship -building Industry 


87 . The facilities available to Actual Users (Indus 
trial) for import of raw materials , components , con 
sumables including consumable tools and spares will 
also be available to the Industrial undertakings en 
gaged in ship building for the manufacture , repair of 
szips. However , in respect of electronics items when 
imported under OGL the clearance of the Department 
of Electronics, as required under the policy would be 
obtained and produced to the customs authority at the 
time of import 


(2 ) The supplementary licences referred to in sub 
para ( 1) above , for utilisation of their repeat value , 
will also be valid for direct imports of canalised items, 
appearing in Appendix 5 Part- A and required by the 
unit as raw material in its factory , for a value not 
exceeding 25 per cent of the repeat value of the 
licence subjact to a maximum of Rs. 1 .0 lakh , within 
the overall " repeat" value of the licence . 

(3 ) For their additional requirements, if any, such 
units can apply for supplementary licences in the 
normal course under para 82 above . 


Ship repairs / Ship stores 

88 (1). Ship repairing companies which belong to the 
category of Actual Users (Industrial) will be cligible to 
obtain ( supplementary ) licences on the basis of foreign 
exchange actually earned from ship repairs. Licences 
will be granted for the imported items used in the ship 
repairs , on the basis of written declaration with 
necessary details given by the Chief Executive of the 
applicant, limited to the foreign exchange earned 
through ship repairs. The applicant should attach 
a bank certificate, indicating the earning of foreign 
exchange through ship repairing, to his application . 


www 


www 


[ 

27 
भारत का राजपत्र : अगाधारण 
I - - Ge 1 ] 
12 : Stop repairing units, fegistuidu DI 211•1 

the grant of supplementary licences to Actual 
G ulf Shipping , engaged in the 1913 i van 

Users (Industrial) ; 
I wi , Is, whether Indian or liniste u tovrh 

, 

( c ) 
Lui a customs-bonded premises, wit 

le 

They can obtain raw materials from the 
to import capital goods, components, 1.!* icon wiis , 

canalising agencies concerned in the same 
Curls umables and spares under citus fine tena in 

manner as Actual Users (Industrial) ; 
their ship repairing work . The payman. uit ( 1130ms 

(d ) loan licensees are not permitted to import 
duty on such imports would be guverasd by the 

consumables under Open General Licence . 
Customs law . 

Their requirements in this regard can be met 
(3) Provisions for import of spares by Slip iepair 

through the system of supplementary 
ing Companies / units and workshops eng . d in ship 

licensing 
repairing are also given in Chapter VI of this Book . 

( 2 ) Import licences issued to loan licensees will not 
Electronics Industry 

bear the condition regarding utilisation of raw niaterials 

and consumables in the factory of the licensee. A suit 
89 ( 1 ). Raw materials , components and consumables 

able endorsement will be made on such licences per 
which are covered under Open General Licence for 

mitting the loan licensees to get their goods processed 
Actual Users ( Industrial), subject to “ Actual User ” 

in other factories licensed under the Drugs and 
condition , can also be imported under OGL by units 

Cosmetics Act, 1940 . 
(whether SSI or large scale ) engaged in the Elcctronics 
Industry , in accordance with the policy and the (3 ) The new units of loan licensees can apply for 
conditions laid down . 

import of raw materials and consumables under the 
(2 ) Applications for supplementary licences can 

provisions made in this policy for Actual Users (In 
be made by such units in accordance with the r.ormal 

dustrial). 
policy and procedure laid down . However, in respect 

(4 ) Actual Users (Industrial), who manufacture 
of certain end- products, the Development Comi i irier 

goods on behalf of loan licensees, shall not include the 
(SSI), New Delhi, in consultation with the Department 

cousumption of imported inputs on that account in 
of Electronics, approves phased manufacturing prog 

their consumption statement, while claiming supple 
ramme of SSI units engaged in or taking up manufac 

mentary licences for their own production needs. 
ture of those end - products. Suitable guidelines in this 
regard are issued to the State Directors of Industry by 

New , Proposed Units 
the DC (SSI), New Delhi/Department of Electronics, 
New Delhi. In such cases, applications for supple 

91 ( 1) Under this policy , new units will be those 
mentary licences will be recommended by the spon 

which come into regular production on or after 
soring authority in accordance with the terms and 

1st April of the licensing year. 
conditions of approved phaserl manufacturing prog 

( 2 ) It is expected that new /proposed units will be 
ramme. 

able to meet their requirements of raw materials, 
Loan licensees 

components and consumables etc . from indigenous 

sources and / or under Open General Licence . 
90 ( 1). In the case of pharmaceutical units, the loan 

However , where , import of an item appearing in 
licensees under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 , 

Appendices 2 Part B and 3 for a small amount is 
who are permitted to get their drugs processed by 
other factories licensed under the said Act, will 

considered essential even to begin with , such new / 
be 

proposed units, on the basis of the recommendations 
eligible to get Actual User licences in their own names 
for import of raw materials required by them . Ac 

made by the concerned sponsoring authority , will be 

eligible to get licences covering their requirements 
cordingly : 

for twelve months in respect of the items appearing 
(a ) such loan licensees will be eligible to import in Appendices 2 Part B and 3. The maximum value 

their raw materials under Open General of any such licence in the case of small scale units 
Licence in the same manner as Actual Users 

will be Rs. 50 ,000 . 
( lustrial) ; 

( 3 ) Where an Actual User ( Industrial) is granted 
(b ) whey can obtain supplementary icences for a new Licence or Registration Certificate for the 

import of raw materials and consumables manufacture of a new product in the same undertaking 
units the provisions made in this policy for or has been approved for manufacture of a new 


28 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

[PART I- Sec . 1 ] 
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
model ( as distinct from a new product ) in the same (3 ) In the case of Proposal Units where regular 
undertaking, he may use the supplementary licences production has started and permanent registration 
alı cady available to him to proceed with the new number has ben allotted to that unit by the spon 
production , aftur getting such ncw end -product soiing authority , the condition of a bond and bank 
endorsed on the licence on the recommendation of the guarantee , referred to in sub - paras ( 1) and ( 2 ) above , 
sponsoring authority . However, if for the purpose of shall not apply. 
proceeding with the manufacture of the new article , 
the Actual User ( Industrial) has to instal additional Special facilities for industries set up in Backword 
Capital Goods or is in need of raw materials, com Areas or by graduates / diploma holders in professional 
ponents , 01 consumables , which alle not covered by subjects or by ex -servicemen / persons belonging to 
the licences held by him already, he may apply for scheduled castes / scheduled tiibes. 
supplementary licences in accordance with the 
prescribed procedures. 

93 . In these cases , the maximum value of the 
licence shall be Rs. 75 , 000 in respect of new or 

proposed small scale units instead of the normal 
(4 ) For their additional requirements , new / Rs. 50 ,000 referred to in sub -para 91(2 ) above 
proposed units can apply for supplementary licence in (other conditions applicable thereto being the same). 
accordance with the prescribed procedure . 

They will also be cligible for preferential treatment 

in the matter of canalised items as provided in 
92 ( 1 ). In the case of proposed units, licences will Chapter IV of this Book , The list of Backward 
be issued only after the sponsoring authority has Arcas to which this facility applies is given in 
certified that the applicant has made firm arrangements Appendix V of the Hand Book of Import-Export 
for land / premises, power and water supply and also Procedures, 1985 - 88 . 
the plant, machinery and cquipment required for his 
production . Licences will be limited to 12 months 

SPECIAL PROVISIONS 
requirements as assessed by the sponsoring authority . 
In the case of small scalc units , licences will be limited 

Import of Components by DGTD Units / Textile 
to Rs. 50 ,000 maximum and the first licunce 

Machinery Manufacturing Units subject to phused 
will be issued in their favour through the State 

Manufacturing Programme 
Industrial Development Corporation or State Financial 
Corporation , as desired by the applicant , to enable 

94 ( 1), Impoit of components by DGTD units 
such Corporation to ensure proper use of the imported 

ad units registered with the Textile Comunissioner 
material. Alternatively , if the applicant wants a 

for Textile Machinery items will be regulated in 
licence in his own name, he should furnish a bond 

conformity with the approved phased manufacturing 
and bank guarantee for 25 per cent of the value of 

programme pertaining to the unit concerned . The 
the actual imports , at the time of clearance . The 

special procedure in this regard is contained here 
bond will be discharged only after the sponsoring 

under . 
authority has certified that thc unit has properly 
utilised the imported material. The form of bond 
to be furnished by the proposed units has been given Import of Components by DGTD / Textile Machinery 
in Appendix V of the Hand Book of Iniport -Export Manufacturing Units under Open General Licence 
Procedures , 1985 -88. 

(2 ) DGTD units and Textilc Machinery manufac 

turing units desiring to import components under 
(2 ) The condition that a proposed unit should 

Open General Licence will be required to obtain prior 
obtain its first licence through the State Industrial 

clearance from the DGTD / Textile Cominissioner , as . 
Development Corporation or State Financial Corpora 

the case may be . 
tion , or alternatively , furnish a bond or bank guarantee 
for 25 per cent of the value of actual imports at the ( 3 ) Such DGTD units and textile machinery 
time of clcarance , as laid down in sub -para ( 1 ) will manufacturiag units should send a list of components 
also apply to the import of raw materials , components sought to hy imported under Open General Licence 
and consumables under Open General Licence . during the licensing ycar, giving clearly the description 
Thereforç, the sponsoring authorities, while issuing of each component and their number. The list should 
registration cc .tificates tu proposed units , should be sent under Registered Post (AD ) to DGTD 
clearly mark the registration certificate with the words ( Import and Export Policy Cell), Udyog Bhavan , 
" proposed vuil" at the top . 

New Delhi, or delivered personally at the counter in 


TL 


[ TTI - T 1] भारत का राजपन्न : असाधारण 

29 

- - - - - -- - - - - 
the DCTD office, Udyog Bhavan , New Delhi against DGTD units and Textile Machinery Manufacturing 
Boknowledgement boaring the date of Icceipt in the Units which are or have been subject tu phasud manu 
PGTD or to the Textile Commissioner, New Central tacturing prograwne. The custoills will allow clear 
Government Offices Building , New Marine Lincs, ance of such components under flexibility provisions 
Church Gate, Bombay - 400020 , us the case may be. in accordance with the List Attestation Procedure laid 

down, if the import is otherwise ia order and in con 
( 4 ) The DGTD Textile Commissioner will formity with the various provisions in the relevant 
scrutinise thic list with reference to the phased import policy . 
manufacturing programinc of the concerned unit and 
allow those items of components which are in ( 7 ) Where a DGTD unit and Textile Machinery 
conformity with the implementation of the plased Manufacturing Unit importing components under 
manufacturing programme. The list of components Open General Licence or under flexibility provisions 
thus cleared by the DGTD / Textile Cominissioner will is not or has not been subjcct to any phased manu 
be attested by them . The officer attesting the list will facturing programme, a declaration to this effect should 
also put down his seal below his signature. The list be given on the relevant Bill of Entry or any other 
attested by the DGTD / Textile Commissioner will be document prescribed by rules, at the time of clearance 
sent to the unit concerned , which should be presented of goods through the customs. In their case , the 
at the time of clearance of components through the 

List Attestation Procedure will not apply . 
customs under Open Genreal Licence during the 
Licensing year if the import is otherwise covered by 

( 8 ) The List Attestation Procedure will not apply 
OGL and conforms to other conditions laid down in 

to all small scale units and large scale units ( other 
the relevant import policy, 

than those registered with DGTD and Textile 

Commissioner ) for import of components under OGL 
(5 ) Where the Actual User docs not receive the or against supplementary licences or under flexibility 
list of coniponents duly attested by thc DGTD / provisions . This procedure will also not apply to the 
Textile Commissioner within 30 days of the date on import of clectronic components buth for DGTD 
which the list was received in the LG ID , Textile units and other units. 
Commissioner s office , it will be open to lum to get the 
goods cleared through the customs on the basis of the Iniports of Components by DGID Unity and Textile 
list that was given to the DGTD / Textile Commissionet Machinery Manufacturing Units for Export Produc 
for attestation , without waiting further for alle DGID , tion 
Toxtile Commissioner s attestation . In such it case, 

( 9 ) A manufacturer-exporter requiring to import 
the list of itoms presented by tho Actual User to the 

conipotients for the manufacture of machinciy / 
customs authority should bear a clear certiucato 

equipment for export production can apply for an 
thereon signed by the Director, proprietor oi partner 

Advance Licence under the Dirty Exemption Scher 
of the actual user concerned or the office bearer wuerc 

in the form and manner laid down in Appendix 14 
the actual user is a co - operative society or an associ 

of this Book . The provisions of the plased manu .uc . 
ation , to the effect that the list, in question , was 

turing programune will not be relevant in such cases. 
received in the DGTD / Textile Commissioner s Ofice 
on ( date to be given ) and the same duly attested by 

( 10 ) A manufactures-exporter requiring to import 
the DGTD / Textile Commissioner has not been receiv 

compoints for the waruíactuie of machincry / 
ed till (date to be given ). The customs authoritics will equipment for export production can also apply for 
then allow clearance of the items appearing in the list 

[ınprest licence in accordance with ihe pilscribed 
under Open General Licence in this Book, if the im 

policy and the procedures laid down . The applications 
port is otherwise covered by OGL and conforms to 

in such cases should be accomp nied by a certificate 
other conditions laid down in the relevant import 

of a professional independent Chartered Accountant 
policy . 

( or Chief Technical Officer incharge of production ) 

to the effect that the components to be imported are 
Import of Comparcats by DGTD Units and Textile required in the manufacture of the machinery / 
Machinery Manufacturing Units ander Flexibility Pro equipment to be exported . The certificate should 
visions 

give the names of components to be imported , with 

their quantity and value itemwise, and the description 
(6 ) The List Attestativa Procedure detailed above of the product to be exported and its f.o .b . value 
will also apply to import of coniponcats under Hexi. l he provisions of the pleased manufacturing programe 
bility provisions such as para 204 of this Book by the will put be relevant in such casos. 


30 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART I - SEC . 11 


A 


YNUR - 


Servicing Units 


( 11 ) List Attestation Procedure relerred to in 
sub - paras ( 1) to ( 10 ) above will also apply to the 
units for which the phased manufacturing programme 
is over, in the same way as the units in whose case 
the phased manufacturing programme is still current . 
However, in their case, the import of components 
shall be of the same level as imports allowed to the 
concerned unit in the final year of the phased manu 
facturing programme. 


( 2 ) Actual Users (Non -industrial) working as 
juhhing iepair/ servicing units including servicing of 
CHILr boli systems, and requning splicing materials 
and other it is for cold vulcanising and repairs of 
cùnveyor belts and other allied jubs, may be granted 
import licences to meet their requirements in respect 
of items not manufactured in the country in consulta 
tion with the DGTD . The value of the licence will be 
determined having regard to the size of jobs undertaken 
in the previous three years , Applications should be 
made to the regional licensing authorities concerned 
through the DGTD ( Import & Export Policy Cell ) , 
Udyog Bhavan , New Delhi. 


ACTUAL USERS (NON -INDUSTRIAL) 
95. Import of items other than spares and Capital 
Goods- - Actual Users (Non - Industrial) may also apply 
for licences in respect of their other essential require 
ments, to the concerned licensing authorities, on the 
basis of the recommendation of the Directors of 
Industries concernedor of the concerned other 
Government authorities, if any , as advised in writing 
by the Directors of Industries. The clearance of the 
Department of Electronics would , however, be required 
for import of any electronics item including facsimile 
equipment for a value of Rs. 5 lakhs or more and 
marine electronics equipment and parts thereof irres 
pective of the value . The sponsoring authority will 
in such cases obtain the clearance of the Department 
of Electronics before recommending the application 
for licence . Similarly , before recommci.ding an item 
appearing in Appendices 2 Part- B , 3 and S , the 
sponsoring authority will obtain clearance vsi the 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi. 


( 3 ) Actual Users (Non - Industrial) eligible for an 
import licence under this provision may also be 
granted licence on repeat basis once for the same value 
and items for which they obtained a licence in the 
previous year; subject to a maximum value ceiling of 
Rs. 1 .0 lakh ( cif ) . Applications for a higher value 
should be made through the DGTD . 


(4 ) Actual Users (Non -Industrial) who are not 
covered by the definition laid down in sub - para 7 ( 4 ) 
of this policy , but who need to import essential 
requirements for carrying out their business, trade or 
profession , whether for the purpose of gain or not, 
play also apply for import licences through the State 
Director of Industries or other concerned Government 
authorities. Such applications should be addressed 
only to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , 
New Delhi. 


R & D Units 


Substitution of import content by indigenous materials 


96 . Any Research and Development unit, other 
scientific or research laboratory , any institution of 
higher education or a hospital, ragi din ton 
Central or a State Government, will be eligible to 
import its requirements of raw materials , components , 
consumables , and spares ( but not consiemer goods, 
howsoever described and office machines ) under Open 
General Licence ( subject to the Actual User con 
dition ) . 


98 . Details regarding substitution of import content 
by indigenous materials are given in Chapter VIII of 
this Book . 


Industrial X - ray films/Graphic Art films. 

97 . ( 1 ) Actual Users (Non - Industrial) requiring to 
import industrial X -ray films, graphic art films and 
drawing reproduction filins , for their own professional 
use , may apply for import Licence to the regional 
licensing authority concerned through the State Director 
of Industries . Such applications will be considered 
in consultation with Directorate General of Technical 
Development ( Import & Export Policy Cell ) , New 
Delhi. 


Facilities for import of raw materials , components 
and consumables by Non -resident Indians / persons of 
Indian origin returning to India for permanent settle 
ment. 

99 . Non - resident Indians / persons of Indian origin 
who are returning to India for permanent settlement 
and they undertake to set up a new industry which 
conforms to the Government industrial policy in force 
or participate in the expansion or diversification of an 
existing unit within the framework of industrial policy ; 
or they wish to set up a servicing unit, will be allowed 
to import raw materials, components, consumables 
and spares under this policy for meeting the require 
ments of three years (one year at a time) , subject to a 


[ATT I 


31 


भारतका राजपत्र : असाधारण 


1] 


( iv ) 


The import shail le cubject to Actual 
User conu won in cher conditions as 
applicable to 11011 - ci wnt Indians under the 
provisions of tie im 20 .1 policy in force . 


maximum of Rs. 5 lakhs in value for each year, pro 
vided such raw mater als , components , consulxoles 
and spares are purchased out of the applicant s fs tij 
exchange earnings abroad . This facility will 31 
available in cases where the machinery is not iro 
from abroad but purchased indigenously. Thc Dry 
also be no objection in entertaining ino. e thari one 
application under this provision provided the total 
value of such imports is within the overall prescribed 
limit of Rs. 5 lakhs. For their requirements from the 
fourth year onwards, they should apply as per the 
normal policy applicable from time to time, unless, in 
their own interest, they wish to switch over to the 
normal policy any time earlier . Under this provision , 
import of canalised items and items in Appendix 2 
will not be allowed. Also , in respect of items appear 
ing in Appendix 3 , prior clearance of DGTD would 
be necessary . 


( v ) Within 13: inuatl . oi the date of clearance 

from the clutant , thic impoiter shall inform 
about rest of the raw materials etc ., 
in que c the Director of Industries 
of th : sid . in which the raw materials etc . 
shall be used . (In the case of import of 
electronics items, the intimation should be 
sent to the Deptt. of Electronics, Lok Nayak 
Bhavan , New Delhi with a copy to the con 
cerned Director of Industries). 


( 2 ) For the import of (i) raw materials , compon 
nents, consumables and spares for the second and third 
year , and ( ii ) other items as permissible under these 
provisions, the applicants will be required to obtain 
import licences. 


100 . ( 1 ) Non -Resident Indians/ persons of Indian 
origin who are allowed to import raw materials , com 
ponents , consumables and spares under the provisions 
made in para 99 above will be allowed to import these 
items for meeting their first 12 months requirements, 
under Open General Licence , subject to a maximum 
of Rs. 5 lakhs in value, provided the items imported 
are purchased out of the importer s earnings / resources 
abroad and do not involve any remittance from India . 
For items appearing in Appendix 3 of the import 
policy , prior clearance from DGTD sl . " be cötairsd 
and produced to the Customs authority at the time of 
import. Under this provision , import of canalised 
items and items in Appendix 2 will not be allowed . 
While importing under OGL , the importer shall furnish 
the following declaration to the Customs : 


( 3 ) In cases where the Non - resident Indian , person 
of Indian origin desires to obtain a Customs Clearance 
Permit in respect of items which are otherwise allowed 
for import under Open General Licence, with a view 
to availing of concessional rate of duty under Project 
Import facility , wherever eligible , he may apply for 
issue of CCP. 


(4 ) Applications for import of raw materials com 
ponents , consumables and spares should be made in 
the form specifically prescribed for this purpose in the 
Hand Book of Import- Export Procedures, 1985 -88 till 
such time the applicant switches over to the normal 
policy applicable to Actual Users. These applica 
tions should be made to Special Approvals Committee 
(NRI), Department of Industrial Development, 
Udyog Bhawan , New Delhi. 


(i) 


The imported raw materials etc. shall be 
used in the industry being set up by the 
importer in India . 


( ii ) 


The industry in which the imported raw 
materials etc , shall be used , will not have 
a total capital investment in plant and 
machinery of a value more than the upper 
limit fixed for small scale industries, in para 
7 (5 ) of Import and Export Policy ( V01. 1) 
for 1985 - 88 . 


(5 ) Applications for the grant of industrial licence 
in the prescribed form IL July filled in with 14 spare 
copies and proposal for foreign collaboration will 
also be considered by the Special Approvals Com 
mittee (NRI). Every proposal so received from a 
non -resident Indian / person of Indian origin will be 
considered on a composite basis including issue of 
industrial licences, where necessary . Government s 
decision will be communicated to the applicant within 
a period of 45 days. 


( iii) The imported raw materials etc . have been 

purchased out of importer s earnings / resour 
ces abroad , and does not involve any remit 
tance from India . 


(6 ) The industrial units concerncu (i* they Ne 
new ) will be required to get themselves registered with 
the sponsoring authorities concerned , except in cases 
referred to in sub -paras (3 ) and (4 ) above, withia 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SEC. 1] 


WAL 


a period of one year from the date of import 
Capital Goods, in accordance with the policy 
down. 


of 
laid 


and definition for iron , stecl and ferro -alloy iters are 
in accordance with those appearing in the Customs 
Tariff Act, 1975 , unless otherwise indicated in 
Chapter II. 


104 . Applications from Actual Users (Non -Indus 
trial) for iron , steel and ferto alloy items will be con 
sidered on merits by the concerned licensing authority 
in consultation with the Iron and Steel Controller . 


Special Scheme fur Electronics Industry 

101. Import of raw materials , components , consum 
ables and spares to meet the first 12 months require 
ments of the unit , set up under the Special Scheme for 
Electronics Industry , as referred to in Para 49 in 
Chapter III above, can be allowed under Open General 
Licence , purchased out of the foreign exchange carn 
ings abroad of the concerned non -resident Indian 
person of Indian origin except that itens appearing in 
Appendices 2 Part B and 3 on Import Policy, 1985 - 18 , 
would require prior clearance from the Department of 
Electronics in case the value exceeds Rs. 5 lakhs, and 
such clearance will have to be produced to the customis 
authority at the time oi import. From the second 
year onwards , the requirements of raw materials , com 
ponents , consumables , and spares of these units will 
be met as per the normal import policy. 


105. All importers of iron and steel, ferro alloys 
and tortous scrap shall, invariably on receipt of 
shipping document, report the details of import to the 
Iron and Steel Controller, Calcutta giving specifi 
cations, quantity imported against cach specification , 
value (c .i.f., f.o.b ., c & f , c .e.c.I.o . as the case may be ) 
and the end use for which the import is made. 


CHAPTER VI 


IMPORT OF SPARES 


Import of Iron , Sted) and Ferro Alloy Itins 

102 . ( 1 ) The import policy fur iron , steel and 
ferro alloy items will be the same in the case of Actual 
Users (Industrial, as that applicable to non -ion and 
stel items. The lists of Kestricted and Limited per 
missible iteris are given in Appendices 2 Part B and 
3 Part- B respectively . The list of Canalised items 
appears in Appendix 5 Part A . 


Open General Licence 


106 . Import of spares other than those included 
in Appendices 2 Part B , 3 Part A , 8 and 10 will be 
allowed under Open General Licence by Actual Users , 
subject to Actual User and other conditions laid 
down 


107 ( 1 ). Spares have been divided into the following 
two categories : 


(2 ) Applications for supplementary licence should 
be made through the sponsoring authority concerned , 
with all the details vi the nature laid down fur non 
iron and steel itenis . The procedure for their disiosal 
will he laid down oy the Chief Controller oſ suports 
and exports Co the advice of the Depaitmeu ! of Sticl, 
New Delhi. 


(i ) Permissiblc spares i.e., the items other than 

those appearing individually in Appendices 2 , 
3 Part- A , 8 or 10 ; and 


( ii ) Restricted spares i.p. items appearing 

individually in Appendices 2 , 3 Part- A 
or 10 . 


103 . All lens of Jl. siect and four sites to bu 
impuried unde s the po ivy sluuld be of p. 1.) : qualliy 
only , except in case of items individuali, uppiparing 
otherwise in Appendices 2 Part- B , S Pail. B 5 l art- A 
and o . In case of any djubit whithies in ,tem of parti 
cular specification , size , ch . , for the 11134 of 
making 10 līlication , CuvCiod withir til Juiciptiun 
contained in any of the entries in thu tinenclices 
or can be imited isst a licence or und OpX1 
General Licenci ; tie imputer/ « pplicani in sk 
clarification: ia advance fron the Department of Stuel, 
Udyng Bhavan , New Delhi. This would includ . qucrics 
as to whether material required bre; Acerai BLT 
(Industrial ) 1x melting crap is not Thor furminology 


( 2 ) The following items will also be treated as 
permissible spares : 
( a ) Reaction flask and reaction vessels of 

industrial glass of capacity 100 Lt, and 
above, when required to be imported os 
replacement for ao industrial glass reaction 

equipment ; 
( b ) Distillation stills and heat cxchangers made 

of industrial glass with diameter 6 " and 
abovo; and 


[ 


I - 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


33 


( c ) Heat exchangers or condensors made of 

industrial glass of diameter 15 . 24 cms and 
above when required as replacement in stills 
with rectifying columns made of industrial 
glass of 7 .62 cms diameter and above . 


Import of restricted spares 

109 (1 ), Actual Users (both Industrial and Non 
Industrial ) may apply for a licence for import of 
restricted spare at the rate of two per cent of the 
c .i.f. value of all the imported plant, machinery and 
equipment and / or one per cent of the purchase price 
of any indigenous plant machinery and equipment, 
having imported components , installed or in use by 
them as on 1st April of the licensing year. 


Import of permissible spares 


108 ( 1 ) . Actual Users (both Industrial and Non 
Industrial ) will be permitted to import under Open 
General Licence permissible spares which are required 
by them for operation and maintenance of the capital 
goods, including acccssories, ancillary equipment, 
control and laboratory equipment and safety appliances, 
installed or ip use by them as on 1st April of the 
licensing year. 


(2 ) Licences for restricted spares will be issued 
with the general description — " Restricted spares 
required for operation and maintenance of the capital 
goods installed or used by the licence - holder , 
including spares of ancillary equipment, control and 
laboratory equipment and safety appliances". The 
customs authorities will allow clearance of the imports 
on a declaration that these imported restricted spares 
are required for operation and maintenance of the 
capital goods installed or used by the Actual User 
in his factory / establishment /institution . 


(2 ) Private companies operating wircrafts and those 
engaged in aerial spraying of crops as are covered 
by the definition of Actual Users (Non -Industrial) 
can also import permissible spares for maintenance 
of their aircrafts , under Open General Licence . 


(3 ) Imports made of a single frestricted spare 
should not exceed Rs. 1.5 lakhs. For this purpose 
the single item shall have the same meaning as defined 
in Chapter I of this Book . 


( 3) The facility for import of permissible spares 
under OGL available to Actual Users can also be 
availed of by shipping companies for operation and 
maintenance of thcir ships. 


(4 ) In respect of item appearing in Appendix 10 , 
the maximum value limit of Rs. 1.5 lakh fixed for a 
single item of "restricted spares will not apply if 
not more than one piece each of them is imported , 
and the import is within the overall value of the 
licence meant for import of restricted spares. 


( 5 ) Actual Users whosc requirements of restricted 
spares cannot be met under this provision may apply 
for supplementary licences under para 82 , 


(4 ) Actual Users ( lodustrial) will furnish to the 
customs authorities, at the time of clearance a 
declaration giving particulars of their Industrial 
Licences /Registration Certificates, as appropriate , and 
solemnly affirming that such Licence /Registration his 
not been cancelled or withdrawn or otherwise made 
inoperative . In cases where separate Registration 
number is not allotted by the sponsoring authority 
concerned , the importer shall produce other evidence 
to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that he 
is registered as an industrial unit. The Actual User 
will also furnish a declaration to the customs 
authority that the spares imported are those required 
for operation and maintenance of the machinery 
installed or in use by him as on 1st April of the 
licensing year , as referred to in sub -para ( 1 ) above . 


Import of spares for after- sales services 


110 ( 1 ) . Actual Users ( Industrial) will be eligible 
to get licences calculated at 1.5 per cent of the ex 
factory value of production or 2 per cent of c.i.f. value 
of imported components, whichever is higher , during 
the last three financial years , for import of spares 
needed for the purpose of providing wararaty coverage 
or after-sales service (whether free of cost or at a 
price ) to their customers. Only such spares shall be 
permitted as were /are used by them as components 
of the said items at the time of danufacture . 
Applications should be made to the regional licensing 
authorities concerned , accompaniod by a certificato 
from a Chartered or Cost Accountant or Company 
Secretary who is got a partner or a director or an 
employee of the applicant firm or its associate, as to 


(5 ) Actual Users (Non -Industrial) shall , at the 
time of clearance of the goods, furnish to the customs 
authorities the original or a photostat copy of the 
( currently valid ) Registration Certificate or licences 
held by them under the Shops and Establishinents 
Act, Cinematographic Act, or appropriate local 
statute 


34 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - SEC. 1] 


- 


- 


- - - - - - = 


- = = 


= 


- 


the ( ligible viue . Actual Users (Industrial) engag . I 
in tiie industries listed in Appendix 9 only will be 
cligible to apply for import licence under this 
sub -para . 


( 2 ) Under this provision , applications may also be 
comidered, on merits from Actual Users ( N 1 -Indus 
trial) for import of emergency spaies of a machmy 
which is intimately connected with the daily activilies 
of the applicant. 


( 2 ) Manufacturers of consumer electronics goods 
will also be eligible to get licences for spares calculat 
ed at 1.5 per cent of the ex-factory value of produc 
tion during the last three financial years for providing 
warranty coverage or after - sales service , subject to 
the conditions laid down in sub paras ( 1 ) and (3 ) to 
( 5 ) of this para 


(3 ) State Electricity Boards / Projects /Undertakings 
can also avail of the facility for grant of energency 
spare licences. 


(3 ) The maximum value of the licence issued 
under sub - paras ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) above will be Rs. 25 lakhs 
(or Rs. 50 lakhs for Actual Users engaged in manu 
facture of power boilers or Turbo Generators of capa 
city 60 MW and above and Earth Moving Equip 
ments ). Additional requirements , if any , will be con 
sidered on application for supplementary licences made 
to the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, New 
Delhi, through the sponsoring authority concerned . 


(4 ) The facility for the grant of emergency spares 
licences will also be available to departmentally- run 
undertakings and Railways to the cxtent that they will 
not, in such cases , have to obtain indigenous clearance, 
Import licences for emergency spares in their case will , 
however, be issued within the overall foreign exchange 
released to them by Government for imports of raw 
materials, components, consumables and spares. 


(5 ) Import of capital goods as spares will not be 
allowed under these provisions. 


Government Departments , Departmentally -run - Under 
takings etc. 


(4 ) Actual Users ( Industrial) engaged in Industries 
other than those listed in Appendix 9 may apply to 
the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, New Delhi 
through the sponsoring authority concerned , if they 
need to import spares for after- sales service , giving 
full justification , 


112 . Provisions for import of spares by Govern 
uicnt Departments, Departmentally - run -Undertakings, 
ONGC , Oil India Ltd ., Gas Authority of India Ltd ., 
Bharat Gold Mines Ltd ., Coal India Ltd ., Stato 
Electricity Boards etc . are given in Chapter VII of 
this book . 


(5 ) Names of Actual Users (Industrial) receiving 
licences for import of sparcs under this provision will 
be compiled and a watch kept on the standard of ser 
vice rendered by them to the customers. 


Import of Emergency spares 

111 ( 1 ) . Applications for grant of licences for 
import of emergency spares required in the case of 
an actual break -down or imminent break - down of 
production machinery will be considered from any 
Actual User as and when received. Such licences for 
emergency spares will be granted by the licensing 
authority concerned for tho value applied for , on the 
basis of a declaration from the Chief Executive i.e., 
Chairman /Managing Director / Executive Director / 
Managing Partner in the case of a corporate body , to 
that effect giving the broad particulars necessitating 
the emergent import. The applicant should furnish a 
list - in fair though not in exact detail - of the spares 
( and consumables , if any ), sought to be inpoited . 
This should be stamped by the official scal of the 
applicant and after due attestation by the jicuising 
authority , will form part of the licence to be issued 
(without going into their indigenous availability 
angle ) . 


Import of Motor Vehicle spares 

113 ( 1 ) . Import of spares for imported motor 
vehicles or tractors will be allowed under Open General 
Licence , upto a maximum value of Rs. 5 ,000 for each 
imported vehicle / tractor, At the time of clearance of 
imported spares, the importer should furnish to the 
customs authorities the valid registration and other 
certificates under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 and 
also a declaration that the total imports made by him 
during the year have not exceeded Rs. 5 , 000 per 
imported vehicle /tractor, including the consignment to 
be cleared . This facility can also be availed of through 
registered Associations / Cooperative Societies / State 
Agro -Industries Development Corporations, as laid 
down in Chapter II of the Hand Book of Import 
Export Procedures, 1985 – 88. 


( 2 ) Persons owning a fleet of at least 25 motor 
vehicles will be eligible to import permissible spares 
(i.e. spares not appearing in Appendices 2 , 3 Part - A , 
8 and 10 ) under OGL for maintenance of their 
vehicles as Actual Users (Non -Industrial), subject 


35 


(TTTI - 


E 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


to Actual Users condition . At the time of clearance 
they will furnish to the customs authority the evidence 
in support of their owning a fleet of at least 25 motor 
vehicles as on 1st April of the licensing year. 


( 2 ) Applications for the grant of Suppl. intury 
licences for import of spares may also be considered 
by the CCI& E , New Delhi in cases where he is 
satisfied that the value of the licence to which the 
applicant is eligible under sub - para ( 1) of this 
paragraph will not be adequate to meet the require 
ments. Such applications will be considered in 
consultation with the technical authorities and the 
administrative Ministries concerned . 


(3 ) Persons owning a fleet of at least 25 motor 
vehicles made indigenously , will be allowed to import 
‘restricted spares on the basis of one per cent of 
the purchase value of the vehicles in their fleet as on 
1st April of the licensing year subject, however, to a 
maximum of Rs. 1 .5 lakhs. State Transport Under 
takings may , however, apply for their additional re 
quirements any time in the course of the year . Appli 
cations may be made to the regional licensing authority 
concerned , together with particulars of the operating 
fleet, and all relevant documents , as certified by the 
Chartered or Cost Accountant or Company Secretary 
who is not a partner, a director or an employee of 
the applicant firm or its associates or by its Chief 
Executive . 


Import of spares for Computers 

115 . Import of spares for computer systems will be 
governed entirely by the following provisions; they in 
clude permissible or restricted spares . 


foreign 


Import of spares by Indian agents of 

machinery , instruments manufacturers 


116 (1). The CMC Ltd . or any other agency ap 
proved by the Department of Electronics will be the . 
designated procurement agencies for spares, tools and 
test equipment in respect of all computer systems 
maintained or planned to be maintained by them . 
They will procure spares, tools and test equipment in 
bulk upto a maximum value of 5 per cent per annum 
of the c.i.f. value of imported computer systems main 
tained under their own responsibility or in respect of 
similar systems maintained by users who may register 
themselves with the CMC Ltd . or any other agency 
approved by the Department of Electionics for pro 
curement of spares (these agencies nias set up bonded 
warehouses on the basis of understanding with mapu 
facturers for such systems) . 


u 


114 ( 1 ) . Applications for the grant of import licen 
ces for spares of machinery /instruments (other than 
Metrological instruments and those mentioned in 
Appendix 8 of this Book , Office equipment and also 
of Computers) will be entertained from the Indian 
agents of forcign machinery / instruments manufac 
turers, to enable them to import spares for stock and 
sale . The value of such licences may be calculated at 
3 per cent of the c.i.f. value of machinery / instruments 
imported by the applicant himself or imported through 
him during the previous 10 financial years, as certified 
by an independent professional Chartered Accountant. 
Import licences issued in these cases will be subject to 
the condition that (i) only spares related to the 
machinery imported by or through the agent concerned 
will be allowed , ( ii ) import of a single item of spares 
listed in Appendix 3 Part -A of the Import Policy shall 
not exceed Rs. 1. 5 lakh in value (c.i.f.), and ( iii) import 
of other items of spares will not exceed Rs. 10 lakhs 
in value (c.i.f.) per item . A single item for this purpose 
will bave the same meaning as defined in Chapter 1 
of this Book . Items appearing in Appendices 2 and 10 
will not be allowed under this provision . Import of 
canalised items and instruments will also not be 
allowed. Applications under this provision should 
be made to the CCI & E , New Delhi, in the prescribed 
form and manner. ( Indian agents obtaining import 
licences under this provision will not be allowed to 
appoint someone else as an agent to operate the 
licence on their behalf) . 


(2 ) All Actual Users other than those covered in 
para 47 (x ) in Chapter III above and sub - para (1 ) 
above may obtain spares on the basis of Open General 
Licence ( subject to the Actual User condition ) upto 
a maximum of 5 per cent per annum of the c .i.f. value 
of the imported computer systems in use by them 
without obtaining prior clearance from Department of 
Electronics. 


( 3 ) In respect of all indigenously manufactured 
computer systems, maintained by the CMC Ltd 
or any other agency approved by the Department of 
Electronics or in -house by the users or by the indi 
genous manufacturers as a part of their services to 
the users, spares upto a maximum of 2 per cent per 
annum of the sale price of the computer system , may 
be imported under Open General Licence (subject to 
the Actual User conditions), without obtaining prior 
clearance from the Department of Electronics. The 
CMC Ltd . or any other agency approved by the 
Department of Electronics or indigenous manufacturers 
with whom the users are registered for maintenance 
services and / or for supply of spares (for carrying out 


36 


THE GAZETTE OF IDNIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I- Sec . 1 ] 


in -house maintenance ) can also import spares under 
OGL, on their behalf , under this provision , upto a 
maximum of 2 per cent per annum of the sale price of 
computer system . 


the licence holder will have the facility pro 
vided in sub - para (i) above to import spares 
upto 10 % of the value thereof, 


( 4 ) For the purposes of sub -paras ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) 
above, the c.i.f, value of an used system purchased 
by the Actual User shall be reckoned at 48 times the 
monthly rent paid thereon immediately prior to the 
date of purchase or the purchase price of an equiva 
lent new machine, whichever is lower. 


( i ) Where the licence has been issued , without 

or with an item - wise list, setting down a 
separate value for spares ( item -wise or in 
total), the said value will supersede the 
above mentioned limit of 10 % . 


(5 ) Import applications to cover requirements of 
spares in excess of the limits laid down in sub -paras 
( 1) to ( 3 ) above, may be considered by the licens 
ing authorities concerned on the recommendation of 
the Department of Electronics, New Delhi. 


( iv ) Within the value of the C .G . licence , acces 

sories ( or attachments ) of the capital goods 
concerned and toolings required for its initia ) 
operation may be imported upto 10 % 
thereof. 


( v ) In all the above cases, the said spares and 

accessories ( or attachments ) or toolings 
may be imported even after the main equip 
ment has been delivered but within the 
validity of the licence . 


(6 ) Spares , tools and test equipments imported 
under the provisions made in this Chapter can be 
transferred by the concerned Actual Users to the CMC 
Ltd . or any other agency approved by the Department 
of Electronics for the purpose of pooling of resources . 


Shipping Companies 

118 . The facility for import of permissible spares 
under Open General Licence available to Actual 
Users , can also be availed of by shipping companies 
for operation and maintenance of their ships. 


( 7 ) Import of electronic spares for dedicated 
computers attached to capital equipment will be 
allowed as per the policy for import of machinery 
spares. 


( 8 ) Spares for computers which are an integral 
part of photo composing systems will be allowed upto 
5 per cent of the cost of the photo composing machine 
without clearance of the Department of Electronics. 


Shipbuildlog Industry 

119 . Industrial undertakings cngaged in shipbuild 
ing can import permissible spares for maintenance of 
their machinery , under Open General Licence, in 
accordance with the normal policy . 


( 9 ) The above provisions will also apply to all 
Research & Development institutions, educational 
institutions, hospitals and such other organisations 
which are otherwise eligible to import their require 
ments under Open General Licence . 


Import of spares against Capital Goods licences : 
Flexibility 
117 . (i ) Spares required , as per the advice of 

the supplier, (whether permissible or 
restricted ) for the maintenance and operation 
of the capital goods concerned , may, if not 
provided for in the licence specially, be 
imported to the extent of 10 per cent of the 
value of the C .G . licence, but within its 
overall value . 


Spares for Ship repairs/ Ship storos 

120 . ( 1) Applications for the grant of licences will 
be considered from workshops engaged in slip re 
pairing for import of spares required by them for 
replacement while doing repair work . Inport licen 
ces will be issued on the recommendation of Director 
General of Shipping, Bombay. Applications should 
be made to the regional licensing authorities concerned 
through D .G . Shipping. In respect of restricted 
spares involving import of more than Rs. 1.5 lakhs 
in value, per item , the licensing authority will obtain 
prior clearance of the Chief Controller of Imports 
& Exports , New Delhi, 


( ii ) Where a licence incorporates the requisite 

spares (or " spare parts" ) but without any 
list of value applicable thereto separately, 


( 2 ) Applications for import of spares of ships will 
be entertained from stockists approved by the Director 
General of Shipping, Bombay. Applications may be 
made to the Jt. C . C .I& E . Bombay in the prescribed 
form and manner through D . G . Shipping , Bombay . 
Import licences will be issued on the recommendations 


[ HTTT I 45 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : भसाधारण 


37 


- 


T 


- 


- 


- 


General 


import permissible spares under Open 
Licence for maintenance of their aircraft . 


of that Department and shall be subject to the value 
restrictions laid down in sub -para (1 ) above. The 
imported spares would bo mcant for stock and sale. 
On the recommendation of DG Shipping, these 
stockists may also be allowed to import life saving 
and fire - lighting cquipment for use in ships, for stock 
and sale . 


(3 ) Import of aircraft spares can be made under 
Open General Licence, for maintenance of exccutive / 
training aircrafts in both private and public sectors. 
Imports shall be subject to Actual User condition . 


Import of spares for Airlines — Indian and Foreign 


(4 ) Applications for import of spares of aircrafts 
will be entertained from stockists approved by the 
Department of Civil Aviation , New Delhi. Applications 
may be made to the CCI & E , New Delhi in the 
picscribed form and manner through the Department 
of Civil Aviation , New Delhi. Import licence will be 
issued on the recommendation of that Department. 
The imported spares would be meant for stock and 
sale . 


121 ( 1 ). Air India , Indian Airlines and other Air 
lines who are members of the I. A . T .A . can import 
under Open General Licence , the sparcs, consumables 
(cxcluding any greases and lubricants covered by the 
Appendix 5 Part- B and to be supplied by Indian Oil 
Corporation to them ), aircraft tyres and tubes, 
manuals, technical drawings, illustrations and other 
technical literature pertaining to the fleet of aircraft 
operated and maintained by them , and the associate 
test and training cquipment. The concerned Airlines 
shall , within seven days of clearance of cach such 
consignment, intimate to the Director General of Civil 
Aviation , New Delhi, the particulars of the items ini 
ported , the quantity and c .i.f. value thereof and shall 
also maintain a register of their inventory / utilisation 
in such manner as he may desire. All these shall be 
open for inspection by the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports at any timc. 


Spares for R & D Units 

123 . Research and Development units , scientific or 
research laboratories , institutions of higher education 
and hospitals , recognised by the Central or a State 
Government, can import without an import licence , 
their requirements of spares, both permissible and 
restricted without value limit- in terms of the 
provisions of Open General Licencc applicable to them . 


(2 ) In specific cases, import licences /CCPs may 
be issued by the CCI & E , New Delhi, on the recom 
mendation of thc Director General of Civil Aviation , 
New Delhi, for the import of requirements referred 
to in sub -para (1) above. 


Import of spares by Actual Users (NonJndustrial) 

124 . Actual Users (Non -Industrial), will be eligi 
ble to import permissible spares required by them 
under Opcn General Licence, subiect, however , to the 
conditions applicable thereto . In addition , for meet 
ing their requirements of restricte l spares , they will 
be eligible to get licences calculated at 2 per cent of 
the c.i.f. value of the imported plant, machinery and 
equipment and / or 1 per cent of the purchase price of 
any indigenous plant, machiccry and equipment 
having imported components, in usc by them as on 
1st April of the licensing ycar. 


(3 ) In respect of their other requirements, however, 
they should make an application to thc Chief Con 
troller of Imports & Exports , New Delhi through 
the Director General of Civil Aviation , New Delhi. 
Licence will be granted on his recommendation only . 
Import shall not, however, be allowed in respect of 
items available from indigenous sources to Air India 
and Indian Airlines . 


122 . ( 1) Airlines, who arcot members of 
LA . T . A ., may apply for import licences / CCPs to 
meet their requirements . Such applications may be 
made to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
New Delhi through the Director General of Civil 
Aviation , New Delhi. Import licences /CCPs may 
be issued on the recommendations of D .G .C .A . 

(2 ) Private Companies operating aircraft and those 
engaged in aerial spraying of crops as are covered by 
the definition of Actual User (Non - industrial), can 


Import of Spares by Workshops 

125 . Workshops cngaged in the repair of machi 
nery, instruments and vehicles , as are covered by 
the definition of Actual User (Non - iridustrial) laid 
down in para 7 of this policy . may apply for the 
grant of licences for import of sparcs required by 
them for replacement while doing repair work, Under 
this provision , import of thosc spares will be allowed 
which the Actual Users themselves can import under 
OGL as spares. 


Import of Instruments as spares 

126 . The procedure regarding import of Instru 
ments as spares is given in Chapter III of this Book . 


38 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I- SEC . 1 ] 


Y 


hte 


CHAPTEK VII 


IMPORT BY GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS , 
DEPARTMENTALLY -RUN UNDERTAKINGS 

AND PUBLIC SECTOR ENTERPRISES 


evidence to this effect. Such undertakings can also 
import Capital Goods listed in Appendix 1 Pariwed 
Jigs, fixtures, dies and patterns, moulds llu diig 
moulds for die -casting ) and press tools ai is 
thereof ( other than those in Appendices 1 Da , 
2 and 3 Part A ) , under OGL, subject to t 
tions laid down, on the basis of foreign is daar 
released to them by the administratie Vorg/ 
Department of Economic Affairs . For inip rofiller 
capital goods, such undertakings can ansi fi apr 
licences on the basis of foreign excha 1o . nd 
indigenous clearance from DGTD and Department of 
Electronics , 


Railways 


Government Departments 

127 ( 1 ) ( i) Government Departments, as distinct 
from departmental undertakings, can import capital 
goods , raw materials , components, consumables and 
spares under Open General Licence on the basis of 
the foreign exchange released to them by the 
administrative Ministry concerned . In respect of items 
in Appepdices 2 Part B and 3 or CapitalGoods ( other 
than those appearing in Appendix 1 Part- B only ) , 
they should obtain prior clearance from the DGTD 
before applying for release of foreign exchange . 
Where import of any electronic items including 
facsimile equipment for a c.i.f. value of Rs. 5 lakhs 
or more and marine electronics equipment and parts 
irrespective of the value involved , or communication 
equipment for a value more than Rs. one lakh is 
involved , the import can be made only after clearance 
is given by the Department of Electronics. The 
customs authorities will allow clearance under O .G .L . 
on production of evidence to this effect. 


( 3 ) The provisions made in sub -yra ( 2 ) above 
will also apply to the import by R in ys 


Electricity Boards etc. 

( 4 ) State Electricity Boards/ Prrininta Tordurtakings 
in the public sector can import .. * ? , ! or ( per 
General Licence against release of 

by 
Government in their favour . Beri l s rei_n 
exchange release , they should oli liscle is 
ance from DGTD in respect ni 

ispales 
sought to be imported . Whers in ru í 10 croics 
items for a c.i.f. value of Rs. 5 . roi wo manje 
electronics equipment and paris hil potre of value or 
communication equipment for a tale more than 
Rs. one lakh is involved , the inp it can be m ide 
only after clearance is givin hy Deri.tment of 
Electronics . The custoly 11! Is will allow 
clearance under OGL on kl 9 of evidence to 
this eflect . 


( ii ) The above facility for import under Open Gen 
ral Licence will, however , not be available for items in 
Appendices 1 Part A or 5. In such cases, applications 
may be submitted to the Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports, Udyog Bhavan , New Delhi. Import of such 
items will be allowed only against specific import 
licences. 


Departmentally- run Undertakings 

( 2 ) In tanti un ride tikings can import 
st i term i n umables and spares 
( non - carl i 

r Open General Licence on 
te ! 1$ i ļp 

i lie released to them by the 
adir u strative Ali p uitment of Economic 
17 luoso Si Appendices 2 Part B 
ar ! " 

1 l enous clearance from the 
Orthy 

Tielease of foreign exchange . 
In rulliri, 

nduwenous clear ince will 
be riu ner ! 4 , 12 for release of foreion Cl 
change rere u Irudny electronics items ding 
fac simile equipment for a c.i.f. value of Rs. 5 .0 lakhs or 
more or marine electronics equipment and parts irres 
pective of value or communication equipment for a 
Va u mble than Rs one lakh is involved , the import 
c. i be made only after clearance is given by the 
Department of Electronics The customs authorities 
will allow clearance under OGL on production of 


ONGC, Oil India & Gas Authority of India Lid . 

(5 ) The Oil and Natu Giro n lus been 
allowed to import its ren Itul il consumer 
goods, howsoever descrill online Onen General 
Licence , after requisite ole of loin exchange 
and indigenous clearance is the DGID . No indi 
genous clearance will I y for import of 
machinery aprtililin 

16 1 Part- B und per 
missible spares Where I Burt of any electionics 
items including facsimule e putnient for a c .i.f. value of 

lahlıs ormeor all electronics equipment 
anljot, irresi444112 ofle inue or commun cation 
equipment for a value of no re than Rs, one lakh is 
involved , the import imbe ! lle only after clearance 
is given by the Diritti rise . The 
customs authorit 

I 

, OGL. 
on production of our ne tri tisoll in facity 
will also be ava lable 10 V C r I d ail Gas 
Suthority of Ind a Lid , 


P 


(HT 1 - 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


( ii) M / s. Bhubut Coking Coal Lid . 


( 0 ) The facility available to the Oil & Natural 
Gas Commission to import its requirements under 
OGL will also be available in cases where a service 
contract has been awarded to a foreign contractor, who 
brings equipment for execution of work , provided that 
( a ) import of such equipment is not to be paid for 
and (b ) the ONGC undertakes that such equipment 
shall be re-exported after completion of the work . 
If the imported equipment is fitted with any item such 
as projector or camera etc ., which forms its part, the 
import of such consumer durables will also be allowed 
subject to the ONGC undertaking their re-export 
along with the main equipment. Imports in such cases 
will not require release of foreign exchange or 
indigenous clearance . This facility will also be avail 
able to M / s. Oil India Ltd , and Gas Authority of India 
Ltd . 


( iv ) M / s, Central Culfilds Ltd . 

( v ) M / s , Eliwell Collelis J.td . 
( vi) M / s, Western Coalfields Lid . 
( vii) M / s. Centri11 Ming Planning & Design 

Instilute Ltd , 
(viii ) M /s, Singareni Collieries Company Ltd , 


Defence Undertakings 

(11) ( i) In the case of public sector enterprises 
under the Ministry of Defence, the following provisions 
will apply : - - 


(a ) They will be eligible to import raw materials , 

components and spares under Open Gene 
ral Licence vide items 1, 2 and 4 of Appen 
dix 6 subject to the conditions laid down 
therein . 


( 7 ) Public sector undertakings receiving on -shcre / 
off-shore contracts from the Oil & Natural Gas Com 
mission or Oil India Ltd . or Gas Authority of India 
Ltd , can import goods required by them for 
execution of such contracts, under Open General 
Licence , after the requisite release of foreign exchange 
and indigenous clearance from the DGTD / Depart 
ment of Electronics . 


(b ) The R & D units will be eligible to import 

raw matcrials etc ., under OGL vide item 
No, 5 and teaching aids vide item No. 7 
in Appendix 6 , subject to the conditions laid 
down therein . 


(8 ) Where any on -shore /off - shore contract is 
awarded to M / s. Mazagaon Docks Ltd . or to any 
other similar undertakings in the public sector, and the 
services of foreign engincers / specialists are engaged for 
completion of the work , the import of tools , instru 
ments and equipment brought by such engineers/ 
specialists will be allowed under Open General 
Licence , provided ( a ) the goods, in question , are not 
to be paid for and (b ) M / s. Mazagaon Docks Ltd . etc . 
undertake that the imported tools , instruments and 
equipments shall be re- exported after completion of 
work . 


( c ) They will be eligible to get licences for im -, 

port of spares needed for providing warranty 
coverage or after - sales service (whether free 
of cost or at a price ) to their customers, as 
provided in para 110 above . 


( d ) They will be eligible to import Capital 

Goods listed in Appendix 1 Part - B and Jigs, 
fixtures etc, vide item No. 6 in Appendix 6 , 
under OGL , subject to the , nditions laid 
down therein . 


Bharat Gold Mines Ltd . 

( 9 ) The facility available to Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission /Oil India Ltd . /GAIL for import of their 
requirements under Open General Licence , has also 
hecn extended to M /s. Bharat Gold Mines Ltd ., 
subject to the conditions laid down. 


( e ) They will be eligible to import computer 

spares vide item No. 9 in Appendix 6 , 
under OGL , subject to the conditions laid 
down therein , 


( f) 


They will be euigible to import other items 
which Actual Users and / or All persons 
can import under OGL in Appendix 6 , and 
required by Defence enterprises as raw 
materials , components or consumables, 


Coal India etc. 

( 10 ) The facility provided for in sub -para (5 ) 
above will also be available to the following under 
tokines for the import of Capital Goods required by 
them : 

(i) M / s, Coal India Ltd , 
( li ) M /s. Neyveli Lignito Corporation Ltd . 


( ii ) The total value of imports / licences available 
under sub - para ( 1) above shall not exceed the foreign 
exchange allotted to each unit by the Ministry of De 
fence for this purpose during the licensing year. At the 


40 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


PART I - Sec . 1] 


time of clearance through the customs or while making 
an application to the licensing authority , as the case 
may be, the applicant unit shall file a declaration to 
the effect that the value of goods under clearance 
already cleared and the value of import licences ob 
tained / applied for shall not exceed the total amount of 
foreign exchange released for the purpose by the 
Ministry of Defence to the unit concerned . 


the purpose by the administrative Ministry /Depart 
mcat of Economic Altairs . In respect of spares falling 
in Appendices 2 Part- B and 3 Part- A , prior clearance 
from DGTD should also be obtained . At the time of 
clearance through Customs, evidence regarding release 
of foreign exchange covering the import and DGTD 
clearance should be produced , 


(iii ) For their additional requirements, if any, which 
cannot be met under ( 1) above the units concerned 
should apply for the import licences to the regional 
licensing authoritics concerned on the basis of the spe 
cific / bulk release of foreign exchange by the Ministry 
of Defence . Before releasing foreign exchange the 
Ministry of Defence units concerned will obtain indi 
genous clcarance from the DGTD ( and the Depart 
ment of Electronics in respect of electronics items 
referred to in para 127 above ). 


Other Public Sector units 

( 14 ) In the case of other public sector enterprises 
of the Central or State Governments, the policy and 
procedure as applicable to the private sector for import 
of raw materials, components, consumables, spares 
and capital goods would equally apply. 


( iv ) Application for import of Capital Goods 
( other than those covered under OGL ) should be 
made by such units in accordance with the prescribed 
procedure on the basis of the specific release of foreign 
exchange by the Ministry of Defence. Before releasing 
the foreign exchange , the Ministry of Defence will 
obtain indigenous clearance from the DGTD ( and the 
Department of Electronics in respect of electronics 
items referred to in para 127 above) . 


( 15 ) If a certain Government enterprise in tho 
public sector is given special release of foreigo ex 
change by the Ministry of Finance (Department of 
Economic Affairs ) , and indigenous clearance for the 
Items sought to be imported ijas been obtained from 
the DGTD , the application for import licence based on 
this should be made to the regional licensing authority 
concerned with necessary evidence of foreign exchange 
release and indigenous clearance . Where import of any 
electronics items including facsimile equipment for a 
c.i.f. value of Rs . 5 lakhs or more or marine electro 
nics equipment and parts irrespective of the value or 
communication equipment for more than Rs, one lakh , 
is involved , the licence will be granted only after 
clearance is given by the Department of Electronics . 


Doordarshan /AIR 


( 16 ) For emergency spares licences, separate pro 
visions have been made in Chapter VI . 


(12 ) The Director General, Doordarshan / All 
India Radio in the Ministry of Information and Broad 
casting, New Delhi may import under Open General 
Licence spares required for maintenance of T .V . 
equipment and other machinery used at Doordarshan 
Centres /Radio stations, against foreign exchange rc 
leased for the purpose by the administrative Ministry / 
Department of Economic Affairs. In respect of spares 
falling in Appendices 2 Part - B and 3 Part- A prior 
clearance from DGTD should also be obtained . At 
the time of clearance through Customs, evidence re 
garding release of foreign cxchange covering the 
import and DGTD clearance should be produced . 


CHAPTER VITI 


SPECTAL LICENSING PROVISIONS 


128. Special requirements of certain items not 
covered by the general provisions will be worsidered 
on the basis given in the succeeding paragraphs . 
Applications should be made to the licensing authori 
tirs concerned 


Posts & Telecommunications 


Import of Animals, Plants and Plant Material 


( 13 ) Departments of Post and Telecommunications 
in the Ministry of Communications, New Delhi, may 
import under Open General Licence spares required for 
maintenance of equipment and other machinery used 
by the Department of Posts and Department of Tele 
communications against foreign exchange released for 


129. Import of animals , birds and reptiles for Zoos 
and Zoological Parks or for Scientific , Research pur 
poses will be allowed subject to the provisions of 
Convention on International Trade in Endangered 


[uro I- OT 1] 


भारत का राजपन्न . असाधारण 
- - - - - 


41 
- - - - - - - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


w 


- 


- - - 


w 


w 


(10) 


The c.i.t. value of a stallion to be imported 
should not exceed Rs. 5 lakhs and that of 
a broodmarc Rs. 2 lakhs . 


pectes or Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). The con 
cerned Zoo or Zoological Park or Scicutific / Research 
Institution will bave to obtain the recommendation 
of the Chief Wild Life Warden of the State concerned . 
Import under this category will be subject to inspec 
tion by Wild Life Preservation Department of Gov 
ernment of India . 


( v ) 


130 . Applications from breeding farms for import 
of livestock ( excluding equine ), pure line poultry 
stocks, frozen semen embryo , will be considered by the 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi, 
on the recommendation of the Ministry of Agriculture 
and Rural Development (Department of Agriculture 
and Cooperation ) , New Delhi, through whom they 
should be routed . 


Import of broodmares may be allowed 
having regard to the imports already made , 
size and scale of of operation of the applicant 
farm , its breeding requireinents and other 
relevant factors . Small stud farms having 
strength of less than 20 broodmares may 
be preferred for allowing import. Ordinarily 
not more than two broodmares will be al 
lowed . In the case of stallions, import not 
cxceeding one number may be considered if 
no stallion was imported in the last four 
years; this condition may be relaxed where 
necessary for reason such as infertility or 
death of the last imported animal. 


Import of Stallions / broodmarcs 

131 . ( 1) Applications for import of stallions and 
broodmares, exclusively for breçding purposes , will 
be considered by the Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports, New Delhi. Such applications should be 
made through the Director of Animal Husbandry and 
Veterinary Services of the State , Government concern 
ed . Advance copies of the application should be sent 
to (1) The Animal Husbandry Commissioner, Deptt. 
of Agriculture and Cooperation , Krishi Bhavan, New 
Delhi; ( ii ) The Director Remount and Veterinary Ser 
vices, West Block III , R . K . Puram , New Delhi and 
(ii ) The Chief Controller of Imports & Exports , New 
Delhi. The last date for submision of applications will 
be 31st May of the year to which the application per 
tains. Applications will be considered in consultation 
with the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Develop 
mont, New Delhi, and subject to the following guide 
lines : 


( 2 ) Applications for import of stallions and brood 
mares for breeding purposes will also be considered 
on the basis of exports of horses made, on or after 
1st April, 1981, by registered stud farms. Under 
this provision , import may be considered for a value 
up to 40 % of the amount of forcign exchange earned 
from such exports of horscs. Export of horses made 
for meeting export obligation stipulated against imports 
of horses already made will not be taken into account 
for this purpose . Original bank certificate showing 
realisation of export proceeds, supported by invoices 
and shipping bills should be produced alongwith the 
applications. The last date for submission of such 
applications will be 31st March of the year to which 
the application pertains. Applications should be made 
direct to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
New Delhi, with copy to the Animal Husbandry Com 
missioner, Department of Agriculture and Coopera 
tion , Krishi Bhavan , New Delhi, 


(i) 


Import of animals will be subject 10 
Health regulations in force . 


the 


( ü ) 


Applications will be considered only 
from stud farms which have been in existence 
for at least three years and registered with 
the Animal Husbandry Commissioner , De 
partment of Agriculture and Cooperation , 
New Delhi. However, this period of three 
years may be relaxed on merits in individual 
cases . 


( 3) Applications for import of stallions and brood 
mares for breeding purposes by way of giſts will also 
be considered subject to the procedures and guidelines 
indicated in para 131 ( 1) above , provided the gift is 
only from close relations namely , father, mother , 
wife, husband , son , daughter, real brother or real 
sister , who has been residing abroad continuously for 
a period of not less than three years, and the gift is 
financed out of the donor s own earnings abroad . 
Import under this provision will count against the 
eligibility of the stud farms in terms of para 131 ( 1 ) 
above . 


(111) In the case of stallions, broodmares, colts 

and flies, the norm of 1. 5 acres of land per 
animal would apply ; and in the case of 
yearlings and foals , the norm for land would 

be one acrc per animal. 
58 G1/85 — 4 


(4 ) Requirements of borses for polo should be 
met from indigenous sources . However, where the 
requirements cannot be met through indigenous sup 
ply , request for permission to import horses for polc 


42 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I - SEC . 1] 


- 


- 


- 


may be considered on ad hoc basis, on merits, by the 
Chief Controller of Imports & Exports in consultation 
with the authorities concerned . 


more, will be eligible to apply , along with a certificate 
of a Chartered / Cost Accountant or a Company Secre 
tary , who is not a partner, a director or an employee of 
the applicant firm or its associates . Licences will 
be granted , on the basis of 10 per cent of the purchase 
turn -over for the import of : 


(5 ) For the purpose of clearance of stallions / 
broodmares from the customs, a cortificate of fitness 
issued either by the Veterinary Officer of the Govern 
ment or from a qualificd veterinary doctor registered 
with the Government of the country of origin con 
cerned , will have to be furnished , 


( a ) Books other than those covered by Open 

General Licence ; 


( b ) Fiction ; 


132 . Import of poultry vaccines (all types ) will be 
allowed under Open General Licence to poultry 
farms, hatcherie , approved by the Ministry of Agricul 
fure and Rural Development, New Delhi, subject to 
the conditions applicable thereto . 


( c ) Non -technical magazines ; 


( d ) Children books ; and 


( e) Teaching aids , thc following : 


133 (1 ) Applications from accredited nurseries and 
Withers , including Government/ Semi-Government ins 
titutions, for the import of living plants , seeds or 
other plant material will also be considered by the 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , New Delhi, 
on the recommendation of the Ministry of Agricul 
ture and Rural Development / ICAR / Forest Research 
Institute / Botanical Survey of India , through whom The 
applications should be submitted . 


(i) Microfilms and microfiches of educa 

tional nature with or without rcaders 
cum - printers ; 


(ii) Film strips / slides of educational nature 

with or without audio cassettes; audio 
cassettes / video tapes of educational 
nature and vidco discs of educational 
nature , for a value not exceeding 10 per 
cent of the value of the licence ; and 


( iii ) Map globes. 


(2 ) All imports of plants, living and plant 
material by land , sed or air shall be accompanied by 
a phytosanitary certificate issued by the appropriate 
authority in the country of origin in the internationally 
It cognised forni, indicating that the consignment is 
free from injurious insect, pestsſplant diseases. To 
assure themselves of proper and timely help in this 
regard , eligible importers are advised to consult 
with and apply well in time to the Plant Protection 
Adyjser or other officer authorised by him in the 
Directorate of Plant Protection , Quarantine and 
Storage, Faridabad for the grant of an import permit 
under the provisions of the Destructive Insects and 
Pests Act, 1914 and produce it to the Plant Quaran 
tine Authorities at the timo of clearance of the 
imported consignment. Import of plant species listed 
in any of the Appendices of the Convention on 
Internatioal Trade in Endangered Species of Wild 
Fauna and Flora ( CITES) shall be subject to inspec 
tion by the Deputy Director, Wild Life Preservation , 
Government of India . 


( 2) Purchase turn -over referred in sub -para ( 1 ) 
above will also include purchases of journals, periodi 
cals — technical and non -technica ). This will also in 
clude the value of the books published by the dealers 
and actually sold by them . 


( 3 ) In the case of books, import shall not be made 
by any one importer against the licence issued to him 
(including the licences, if any , issued to his branches) 
of more than 1 ,000 copies of a single title without 
the prior written clearance of the Ministry of Educa 
lion , New Delhi, Imports of foreign editions of books 
for which editions of authorised Indian re -prints are 
available, will not be allowed . Foreign re- prints of 
Indian publications will be allowed on the basis of 
prior written permission of the Ministry of Education , 
New Delhi. 


Import of Books (other than those covered hy Open 
General Licence ) 


134 ( 1). Dealers in books i.e. persons holding valid 
registration certificato under the concerned Shops and 
Establishments statute , whose purchase turn - over of 
books during the preceding year was Rs. 3 lakhs or 


(4 ) Licences may also be endorsed for import of 
other teaching aids, on the basis of the clearance givon 
by the Ministry of Education , New Delhi. 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - - - 


-- 


- 


- - 


- - 


[ 4771- T 1] 

मारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 
- - - - - - - - - - 
(5 ) Every importer holding a licence worth Rs. 1 the import of which he holds a valid licence . The 
lakh or more should furnish to the Ministry of Edu value of books , magazines and journals imported 
cation (Book Promotion Division ), the following by post parcels will be deemed to have been debited 
particulars : 

to the licence against which the import has been made . 


137. Books, Dewspapers, magazines , pamphlets , 
Icaflets, journals and pre-recorded cassettes containing 
pornographic material or depicting sex , violence , cto , 
cannot be imported , under any circumstances . 


(i ) l he number of titles of books imported by 

him during the preceding two years and 
those proposed to be imported during the 

current licensing ycar ; 
(ii) The details of the foreign titles iſ any re 

printed by him during the preceding two 
years and those proposed to be reprinted in 

the current licensing year ; 
( iil) The value of licence obtained by him dur 

ing the preceding year ; 


( iv ) Copies of the indents and invoices in res 

pect of books imported by him during 
tho preceding year either against a licence 
or under Open General Licence. Similar 
particulars for the current licensing year 
should also be furnished on a quarterly 
basis ; 


Iniport of video tape recorders 

138 ( 1). Applications for import of video tape re 
corders / VCRs, with or without camera / T . V . Monitor , 
and video soft ware will be considered from Actual 
Usçrs / Exporters , With a view to achieving standar 
dization of such equipment over a period of years, 
imports of video tape recorders will be allowed only 
where they all of t" spool size and video 
cassettc sizes. If an applicant requires any different 
specification , special reasons to justify his request 
should be detailed in the import application , for con 
sideration by the Departmont of Electronics. Actual 
Users should apply to the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports , New Delhi, and exporters should apply 
to the regional licensing authority concerned . 


(v) Summary of titles, for which 200 copies or 

more were imported in the preceding year, 
showing the name of author, publisher and 
the actual quantity imported ; and 


( vi ) Separate lists of titles imported under O G . I. . 

and , or against licence. 


135 ( 1 ) . Recognised schools, colleges , and libraries 
can also apply for licences for import of books not 
covered under Open General Licence . In their case , 
licences will be granted upto a value of Rs. 25 ,000 
per year per institution . These licences will be valid 
for import of the same type of books and other items 
as set down above for dealers . Later editions of 
books for which Indian re-prints are available will 
also be allowed for import under this provision . 


(2 ) Import of equipment for setting up of Video 
software generation will be allowed . This will require 
prior registration with the Ministry of I & B . Requests 
for import of equipment, including Video tape recor 
ders / Video Cassette recorders, video camera and other 
accessories for setting up such a facility will be consi 
dered by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , 
New Delhi, based on certification of essentaility by 
the Ministry of I & B . Entrepiencurs should submit 
their rcquircmet of Capital Goods for such video soft 
ware gencration facility , in the prescribed application 
form for import of Capital Goods, to the Chief Con 
troller of Imports & Exports , New Delhi through the 
Ministry of I & B . 


( 2 ) Applications for supplementary import licences 
under this provision will also be considered on the 
recommendation of the Ministry of Education , New 
Delhi, in cases where full requirements cannot be met 
within the licence for Rs. 25 ,000 


136 . The existing concession whereby the Collectors 
of Customs are authorised to release post parcels 
containing books, magazines and periodicals , without 
the importers having to produce the import licences 
will continue during each licensing year. The licensee 
will ensure that only such books , magazines and 
journals are got relcased under this concession , for 


(3 ) In the case of exporters, applications will be 
considered from exporters of feature films having an 
export of feature films of not less than Rs . 10 lakhs 
in value ( fob ) during the preceding ycar and from 
manufacturer -exporters having export of sclect pro 
ducts of a value not less than Rs. 25 lakhs ( fob ) dur 
ing the preceding year. Along with the application , 
statement (s) of exports duly certified by a dealer in 
foreign exchange i.e . the bank or certified by a Char 
tered Accountant in practice /Cost Accountant /Com 
pany Secretary in practice , indicating the description 
of the goods exported , and their fob value , during the 
preceding year, should be furnished . If the exporter 
cligible under this provision wishes to import against 


44 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I- SEC , 1 ] 


his own REP licence, the particulars thereof may be 
given in the application , 


by his licensed manufacturing activities, in order to 
exccute the more complete system contract awarded 
to him . 


(4 ) Applications should be made in Form A 
meant for Actual Users. Import licences shall be 
subject to Actual User condition . 


(5 ) A provision has also been made for import 
of VCRS /VTRs as gifts in Chapter X of this Book . 


Import of Goods required by Shipping Companies 


139. Applications for import of goods other than 
permissible spares required by shipping companies 
will be considered by the regional licensing authorities 
concerned . Shipping companies should send their 
applications through the Director General of Shipp 
ing, Bombay . Import licences will be granted for 
the value and items recommended by that authority . 
Provisions for permissiblo spares are given in Chap 
ter VI of this Book . 


( 3 ) Under this provision , applications may also bo 
considered from public sector undertakings for the 
grant of bulk import licences to enable them to execute 
contracts on hand or to be awarded to them for engi 
neering , designing , fabrication, installation , commis 
siqning etc. of various projects. The public sector 
undertaking obtaining such bulk licences shall be liable 
to render complete account of imports made and utili 
sation of imported goods in the implementation of the 
project , to the Ministry of Industry and Company 
Affairs / administrative Ministry concerned in the form 
and manner as may be laid down by that Ministry . 
The Ministry of Industry and Company Affairs / 
administrative Ministry concerned will monitor proper 
utilisation of imports made against such bulk licences, 


Ad hoc licences to Consultancy firms, Construction 
agencies and Design engineerlag firms 


Coptive Tool Room requirements 

140 . Actual Users ( Industrial or Non- Industrial) , 
who have set up captive tool rooms for their operation 
and maintenance purposes, may apply for import of 
items, required to make their own spares and tools, 
to the regional licensing authority concerned . Such 
applications will be considered on merits on the 
recommendation of the DGTD , 


142 ( 1). Applications for import of design and 
drawing , office equipment, instruments, tools , acccs 
sories and other items may be considered from the 
following : 


(a ) Technical consultancy firms ; 
(b ) Construction agencies ; and 
( c ) Design engineering firms. 


Consultancy, Designing and Engineering firms 

141(1 ). Where a consultancy, designing and en 
gineering firm , which is itself not an Actual User 
(Industrial), has been awarded a contract for the en 
gineering, design , fabrication , installation , commission 
ing and handing over of related capital goods to the 
project authority concerned and it requires imported 
raw materials, components , consumables and capital 
goods for the implementation of the contract, it can 
apply in the form prescribed together with additional 
information in the proforma prescribed in Appendix 
VIII. C to Hand Book of Import- Export Procedures , 
1985 -88 , for the import licence to the Chief Control 
ler of Imports and Exports, New Delhi. Such appli 
cations will be considered on merits on the recommen 
dation of the project authority concerned and after 
screening by the Ministry of Industry and Company 
Affairs /Department of Electronics. However, import 
of computers and computer based equipments will not 
be allowed . 

( 2 ) The above facilities will also he available to an 
Actual User ( Industrial ) in the field of instrumentation , 
who needs imported items other than those covered 


(2 ) Applications will be considered only for those 
items which are required for actual uso by the appll 
cant firm and cannot be imported under the normal 
policy . The value of the licence granted shall not 
exceed 10 per cent of the not foreign exchange earned 
by the applicant as per the Bank Certificate . Within 
this value, import of brochures printed abroad may 
also be made. The application shall be submitted to 
the regional licensing authority concerned and will be 
subject to clearance of the items by the DGTD / De 
partment of Electronics , 


( 3 ) Clearance from DGTD Department of Elect 
ronics referred to in sub - para ( 2 ) above , will be 
necessary only in the case of items appearing in 
Appendices 1 Part - A , 2 , 3 Part - A , 8 and 10 . For im 
port of computers, if any , clearance from the Depart 
ment of Electronics will be necessary . In the case of 
office equipment, clearance from DGTD will not be 
necessary where such equipmeots are allotted to other 
exporters under para 145 of this policy. 


. 


[HTI- E 1 ] 


ATTA FT TETTE : TETETTELOT 


45 


COLE 


143( 1). Printing Presses in India , who supply print 
ed materials to Indian parties on behalf of foreign 
customers against payment in free foreign exchange 
and whose cases are not covered by para 190 of this 
policy will be eligible for grant of Ad -hoc licences to 
the extent of 10 per cent of the total foreign exchange 
earned by them in the preceding year by such supplies . 
These licences will be issued for import of raw mate 
rials , components, consumables, spares, machinery , 
equipment and accessories required by these printing 
presses for their actual use subject to indigenous clear 
ance from DGTD . This will also be applicable to 
services rendered by these printing presses on receipt 
of free foreign exchange apart from physical supply 
of goods referred to above. 


( five -star and four-star ) , import of vehicles, not mort 
than two in number may also be allowed on the 
recommendation of Director General of Tourism , New 
Delhi, within this monetary limit . Also , in the case of 
approved tourist hotels (three star), import of vehicle 
not more than one in number may be allowed on the 
recommendation of the Director General of Tourism , 
within this monetary limit . 


(5 ) Within 2 .5 per cent of the foreign exchange 
earned by tourist hotels from foreign tourists during 
the preceding licensing year subject to a maximum 
of Rs . 7.5 lakhs, the Reserve Bank of India may allow 
them expenditure in foreign exchange for tourist pro 
motion and travel abroad , on the recommendation of 
Director General of Tourism . This amount will be in 
addition to the foreign exchange that may be available 
to them for the same purpose under the normal policy ; 
it will also be in addition to the 10 per cent foreign 
exchange referred to in sub - para ( 4) above. 


(2 ) Procedure as well as other conditions given in 
para 142 above will apply . 


Requirements of Hotels 

144 (1). The facility for import of permissible 
spares under OGL available to Actual Users, can also 
be availed of by Hotels (one star to five star ) and res 
taurants independent of Hotel) approved by the 
Department of Tourism , Government of India for ope 
ration and maintenance of the equipment used therein . 


( 2 ) Tourist hotels approved by the Director 
General of Tourism , Government of India , New Delhi 
other than Tourist hotels (one star to five star ) 
may apply for import licences for all their im 
port requiremepts to the Chief Controller of imports 
and Exports , New Delhi through the Director 
General of Tourism , New Delhi. Licences will be 
issued on the basis of bis recommendation , Import 
may not, however, be allowed in respect of items 
available from indigenous sources . 


Import of Office Machines 

145 ( 1 ) . An exporter, the f.o .b . value of whose 
exports has been Rs. 25 lakhs or more during any 
of the two preceding licensing years will be allowed 
to import , in a licensing period : 

(i) one electric / electronic typewriter, 
( ü ) one electrically operated calculating 

machine, 
( iii ) one photo copying machine, 
(iv ) one dictation tape recorder , 
(v ) teleprinters upto Rs, one lakh (c.i.f.) ( if 

cleared by the Ministry of Communications), 
( vi) One slide projector 
( vii ) One 8 / 16 mm projector 
( viii ) One word processor 
(ix ) One paper shredding machine and 
( x ) photo copying paper, calculating machine 

paper rolls, toner and dispersant for photo 
copying purposes, spares of above -mention 
ed machines and consumable tools required 
for these machines, for a value not ex 
ceeding Rs. 5 ,000 . 


( 3 ) The Ministry of Tourism & Civil Aviation will 
obtain bulk indigenous clearance from DGTD in 
respect of the items to be imported by hotels during 
the licensing year . Based on such clearance , import 
applications will be considered without referring 
individual applications to DGTD . 


( 4 ) Applications from tourist hotels (one star to 
five star ) and the tourist hotels approved by the 
Director General of Tourism , Government of India , 
New Delhi, covering their essential import require 
ments may be considered on the recommendation of 
Director General of Tourism , New Delhi, without 
indigenous clearance from DGTD upto s value not 
exceeding 10 per ccot of frieign exchael« ( ATKca hy 
them from foreign tourists turing tnc perdialecil 
sing year. In the case of approved to butels 


( 2 ) The provisions made in sub -para ( 1 ) above 
will also be available to an exporter, the fob . value 
of whose exports has been Rs, 15 lakhs or more ( but 
less than Rs. 25 lakhs ) in any of the two preceding 
"imal years , but in his casi , the value of the 

lacring to be allowed will be drbited against valid 
REP litence obtained by him or bu owi) exporta. 


46 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRZORDINARY 


[PART 1 - Sec . 1 ] 


- 


- 


R 


- 


( 3 ) The imported machines and materials will be 
subject to "Actual User condition , ic, for use in the 
licence holder s office / factory . 


their case, the value of the annual licence will be 
limited to Rs. 5 ,000 . Along with the application the 
applicant should furnish a declaration indicating the 
description of machines and their c.i.f, value imported 
during the last three financial years , Request for 
licences for a value above Rs. 5 ,000 will be coasidered 
by the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, Udyog 
Bhawan , New Delhi. 


( 4 ) While applying for a licence for the import of 
office machines and other items under these provisions 
the applicant should furnish a declaration indicating 
the quantity and value of these machines and other 
materials for which import licences have been obtained 
or import applications have been made during the 
same licensing period . The licensing authority will 
allow imports only after taking into account simijar 
imports already allowed or applied for in the same 
period . Applications should be made to the regional 
licensing authorities concerned . During the Lcensing 
year eligible cxporters can apply for these items under 
sub - paras ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) above for which they did not 
obtain licence under these provisions during the pre 
ceding licensing year . However , in respect of item 
( x ) i.c , photo copying paper etc., applications for 
import can be made once in every licensing year. 


(8 ) Request for import of PBX /PABX , jaclucing 
clectronically operated PBX / PABX , may be consi 
dered from exporters referred to in para 145 (1) & (2 ), 
Government Departments and public sector enter 
prises , subject to the conditions laid down. Import 
of such cquipment for a value cxceeding Rs. One 
lakh , will however, require clearance of Dept. of 
Electronics. 


( 5 ) Notwithstanding the provisions in sub -para (4 ) 
above, an exporter , the FOB value of whose exports 
was Rs, 5 crores or more in any of the two preceding 
licensing years , can apply for import of office machines 
under these provisions in each licensing year . 


( 9 ) Export Houses who have exported select pro 
ducts of not less than Rs. 5 crores or non -select pro 
ducts of not less than Rs. 10 crores in the precuding 
financial year and Trading Houses may be allowed , 
for their own use , the facility of import of PBX |PABX 
( including electronically operated ) for value in excess 
of Rs. one lakh without clearance from the Depart 
ment of Electronics but subject to prior clearance 
from Department of Telecommunications. 


( 6 ) Applications for import of office machines nay 
also be considered by the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports, New Delhi, from Government Depart 
ments, banks, public sector enterprises, insurance com 
panies, airlines, R & D units, Scientific or Research 
Laboratories, Institutions of Higher Education , Hos 
pitals , and other institutions enterprises , for their own 
use . Such applications will be considered on merits 
having regard to indigenous angle . Under this provision 
applications may also be considered from Chambers 
of Commerce and Industry where the activities of the 
applicants justify. While applying for import licence, 
the applicant should also furnish the number of office 
machines of the same type already available with him , 
both of indigenous manufacture and imported origin 
separately and give justification for the imports sought 
to be made, Ordinarily , applications for import will 
not be entertained from those in the licensing year 
who obtained licence for the same machine(3 ) in any 
of the two previous periods under this sub - para on 
under sub - para ( 1 ) above , 


(10 ) Applications for grant of licences for import 
of spares of office equipment may be catertained 
from the Indian agents of foreign oflice machines 
manufacturers for stock and sale . The value of such 
licences may be calculated at the rate of 1 % of the 
c .i.f. value of the office equipıncnt imported by him 
or through him during any of the last three financial 
years, Applications should be made to CCI & E , Now 
Delhi in the prescribed form and manner , Import 
licences will be issued subject to the conditions laid 
down in para 114 ( 1 ) of this policy Book . Import of 
Toners and dispersant for photocopiers will also be 
allowed under this provision . 


( 11 ) Applications for import of Office machines 
will not be entertained under C .G . procedurc . 


Import of Explosives 


(7 ) Applications for import of items referred to in 
sub- para 145 ( 1 ) ( x ) above may also be considered by 
the regional licensing juthorities from those who im 
ported lice in hulle under sub parit ( 6 ) above. Tai 


146 . Applications for import of explosives will be 
entertained from Government Departments and public 
sector undertakioge, for their own use. Import licen 
ces will be granted on the recommendation of the 
administrative Ministries concerned . 


( HT 1- 


1] 


भारत का राजपन्न : असाधारण 


OGL against the allocation of foreign exchange al 
ready given to them for import of cavalised items. 


Import by Travel Agents 

147 (1 ), Travel agents may be granted import licen 
ces for a value upto 2 .5 per cent of the net foreign 
exchange earned by them during the preceding licen 
sing year on account of rendering travel agency ser 
vices subject to a maximum of Rs. 7 .5 lakhs. Such 
licences will be granted for import of equipment and 
other items requircd for their professional use and 
tourist requirements, (including motor vehicles and 
coach / car air -conditioning units , cach not more than 
two in number during the year) , on the recommenda 
tion of the Director General of Tourism , New Delhi. 
Applications should be made to the CCI & E , New 
Delhi. While applying for the licence , the applicant 
should also furnish bank certificate evidencing the 
amount of net foreign exchange earned during the 
preceding licensing year on account of services ren 
dered by them as travel agents . 


(3 ) For import of OGL items under sub -para (2) 
above , bulk import licences may also he given by 
CCI& E , New Delhi to public sector corporations 
on the iccommendation of Development Comissioner 
( SSI), New Delhi. Under this provision , the value 
of import recommended for each State Union Terri 
tory , will not exceed Rs . 50 lakhs . No specific foreign 
exchange release will be necessary for this purpose . 
The Corporation concerned shall dispose of the im 
ported material to Actual Users (Industrial) in the 
SSI Sector in the same State Union Tonitury as inay 
be indicated in the licence on the rulummendation 
of D . C . ( SSI), New Delbi, and an accoulit ihereot 
shall be furnished to DC (SSI), New Delbi. 


( 4 ) The public sector aguaca ielcrred to in suh 
para ( 1) may also be granted licences for the import 
of capital goods , raw materials , womponents, and 
spares or any items not covered by para 67 for salo 
to eligible Actual Users, according to such condi. 
tions and terms as may be laid down by the CCI& E , 
New Delhi. 


spares 


(2 ) Within the act foreign exchange earning re 
ferred to in sub -para ( 1 ) above , the Reserve Bank of 
India may allow expenditure in foreign exchange for 
tourist promotion and travel abroad , on the recom 
mendation of Director General of Tourism , New Delhi, 
This amount will be in addition to the foreiga ex 
change that may be available to them for the same 
purpose under the normal policy . 


Actual Users, laid down by 


IRMAC (Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Centre) 
Scheme 

148 ( 1 ). The STC , MMTC , State Small Scale In 
dustries Development Corporations and public sector 
trading and service agencies may import in bulk the 
raw materials /components to be supplied off-the- shelf 
to the Actual Users and Registered Exporters, against 
valid import licences. The value of such goods will 
be debited to the import licence against which the 
supply is made . To the extent the goods are thus 
supplied , the licence in question will not be valid 
for direct import or for remittance against its ex 
change control copy . The public sector agency con 
cerned can apply for bulk import licence , and further 
licences will be issued to them to replenish the stocks 
serviced . The value of the bulk irc port licence will 
also be be set off against the licences serviced . 


(5) Export House , whose value of annual exports in 
the preceding licensing year was not less than Rs. 7 
crores (f.o .b .), may also be allowed by the CCI & E , 
New Delhi to provide IRMAC facilties to Actual 
Users by supplying them raw materials and compo 
nents ( non -canalised items only) off -the - shelf against 
valid inport licences held by such Actual Users , 
The IRMAC facility can also be provided by export 
houses whose value of exports two years ago were not 
less than Rs, 4 crores and who had increased their ex 
ports in the preceding licensing ycar by at least 50 
per cent over that level (i. e. exports two years ago ) . 


(6 ) Tradiug Houses rccognised by the CCI& E , 
New Delhi may also be allowed to provide IRMAC 
facilties to Actual Users and Registered Exporters 
by supplying them raw materials and coluponeots 
( 110n- canalised iteins only ) oll - the -shelf against valid 
import licences held by such Actual Usors and Re 
gistered Exporters . 


( 2 ) The public sector agencies referred to . above 
may also import, for off - the -shelf delivery or against 
specific requests ot the eligible Actual Users, items 
placed on OGL for Actual Users ( Industrial). The 
interested agencies may apply to CCI & E , New Delhi 
for the grant of import licences for such items after 
getting the requisite forcign exchange relcased 
through the administrativa Ministry Public ester 
canalising agencies may also inuport such items under 


Registration of Contracts for Copper 

149 . Eligible importers of cupper including copper 
wire bars under any provision of the import policy, 
except against Advance licences or Special Imprest 
licences, should register their import contracts withi 
thc DGTD . Import shall be made only after the con 
nected contract hat ban stamped try 1. DGTD as 
11,61 of quch registration 1 ms , tu 
copies of the wontcact bould he body that was oke 


48 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1- Sec . 1] 


Sale of exhibits imported in connection with Nationai , 
International Exhibitions / Fairs 


registering authority and it will return one copy to 
the importer duly stamped on each page for produc 
tion to the customs at the time of clearance of goods. 
At the time of registration of a subsequent contract, 
the eligible importer should also furnish a statement 
indicating the progress made in the import and uti 
lisation disposal of the imported material in respect 
of the contract earlier registered , for information 
record of DGTD . This procedure will not be appli 
cable in the case of import by Minerals and Metals 
Trading Corporation of India . In their case, the 
provisions contained in Chapter IV of this poliey 
will apply. 


151. Sale of exhibits / specific items of consumer 
goods imported in connection with National Inter 
national exhibitions fairs organised by the Trade Fair 
Authority of India is allowed . Details are given in 
Chapter VIII of the Hand Book of Import - Export 
Procedures, 1985 - 88 . 


handi 


Rehabilitation of disabled persons /physically 
capped persons 


150 ( 1 ). A number of items required by spinal 
patients and other categories of physically handicap 
ped persons have been allowed for import under OGL 
by all persons in List 2 of Appendix 6 of this Book . 


Substitution of Import Content by Indigenous Materials 

152 ( 1) . The indigenous producer of any item 
( other than Capital goods can supply that item to a 
person holding a valid REP licence (including Addi 
tional licence issued to the Export Houses ) or 
Advance / Imprest licence, or Actual User licence , for 
the item in question . Such supply will be considered 
as an export for the purposes of (i) import replenish 
ment as admissible under the import policy for 
Registered Exporters , ( ii ) qualifying exports for grant 
of Export House Certificate / Trading House Certificate , 
except that supplies made against Additional licences 
will not be considered in this regard , ( iii ) benefits , if 
any, available to exporting units under the Actual User 
policy , and ( iv ) the discharge of export obligation , if 
any, imposed on the indigenous producer under the 
Capital Goods/ Industrial Licence or Approval of 
foreign collaboration or under Foreign Exchange 
Regulations Act. Under this facility , OGL items sball 
not be supplied . 


(2 ) Import of instruments and equipments required 
by the blind , including braille typewriters has been 
allowed under OGL by all persons in Appendix 6 
of this Book . 


(3 ) Applications for import of machinery fitted with 
special disability controls /devices, required for set 
ting up an industry exclusively for rehabilitation of 
disabled physically handicapped persons, of a value 
not exceeding Rs. 20 lakhs ( cif ) will be considered 
by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , New 
Delhi, on merits, in consultation with the DGID , 
New Delhi. Such applications will not require recom 
mendation of the sponsoring authority or indigenous 
clearance . Applications under this provision may also 
be considered from existing industrial undertakings 
taking up rehabilitation of disabled physically bandi 
capped persons in industry . 


(4 ) Applications will be liberally considered from 
manufacturers of vehicles for import of disability 
controls/devices required by them to be fitted in the 
manufacture of vehicles for use by disabled physically 
handicapped persons. Such applications may be 
made to the licensing authority concerned through 
the DGTD , New Delhi. 


( 2 ) The price at which such goods may be pro 
cured by licence holders may be negotiated and 
settled between the buyer and the seller. 

( 3) In case where the indigenous producer is willing 
to sell and the licence -holder is willing to purchase the 
goods, in question , the licence- holder should make 
a specific request to the licensing authority which 
issued the licence , indicating the value for which the 
goods covered by the import licence are proposed to 
be procured from the indigenous producer. Upon 
such request, the licensing authority will issue & 
Release Order on the indigenous producer indicat 
ing the description of goods as given in the licence 
or covered by the licence , and the value , and reduce 
to that extent thc value of the import licence . 

(4 ) The Release Order will be issued by the licens 
ing authority in duplicate . Original of the Release 
Order should be retained by the indigenous producer 
after obtaining the acquittance of tho Release Ordar 
holder for the receipt of the goods and the value 
thereof. He should produce the original of the Release 
Order to the licensing authority concerned an evi 
desco of export for clalroing bencã Tho valce U 


(5 ) A provision has also been made in Chapter 
IX of this Book for import of cars fitted with special 
disability controle devices, by physically handicapped 
DCINO , 


49 


- - - 


Cart I - 511 

भारत का राजपन्न अमाधारण 
- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - LLC 
be treated as the f.o .b , value of exports for this pur 

CHAPTER IX 
pose will be the value for which the goods are suppli 

Import of Car and Vehicles 
ed by the indigenous producer or the value of the 
Release Order, whichever is lower. The element of 155 . ( 1 ) Import of cars, station wagons, jeeps, 
customs and central excise duties will not be taken motor cycles, scooters, autocycles, mini-cars and 
into account for the purpose. 

mopeds can be made by the following persons subject 

to the rcquisite conditions indicated against each 
(5 ) For the purpose of issuing the REP licence category : 
against such supply of goods, the rate of import 
replenishment to be allowed will be higher by 10 

( A ) Indian nationals returning to India for perma 
per cent of the normal import replenishment rate ac 

nent settlement. 
missible against the goods, in question , under the ( i) Applicant should have stayed abroad conti 
import policy for Registered Exporters, in Appendix 

nuously for at least one year ; 
17 i.e. the import replenishment rate to be adopted 
will be 11 per cent instead of the normal 10 per ( ii ) Vehicle should have been purchased out of 
cent and so on . 

own earnings abroad ; 


( ii) Affidavit to be filed after being sworn 

before appropriate authority that he is 
returning to India for permanent 
settlement , 


Import of Cameras 

153 ( 1). Actual User (Nor - Industrial), who holds 
a valid Shops and Establishments licence for a pho 
tographic studio for at least 3 years , may be allowed 
to import a camera of c.i. f. value not less than 
Rs. 2 , 000 . This price should cover, at the minimum 
the following : 


( iv ) Normally, the vehicle to be imported should 

have becn used abroad by the applicant 
for at least three months ; however, in 
specific cases , import of a newly purchased 
vehicle may be allowed ; 


(1) Camera proper (body); 


( ii) Normal -lens; 


( 111 ) Sun -shade , 


(iv) Cable release , it any ; and 


(v) Carrying case . 
Note : All other accessories or witachments would be 

charged extra , 
(2 ) Only one camera will be allowed for each such 
Actual User (Non -Industrial), who has not imported 
a camera in the past five years . All such imports will 
be subject to the Actual User Condition . 


( v ) Normally, the import application should 

have been made and CCP obtained while 
the applicant is still abroad . In exception 
al cases , where the applicant has already 
arrived in India, request for grant of CCP 
may be considered within a period of two 
months of return provided the vehicle had 
been purchased or full payment for pur 
chase of vehicle has been made before re 
turning to India and no request for issue of 
CCP will be considered if the vehicle had not 
been purchased or full payment for purchase 
of vehicle has not been made before return 
ing to India . 


(3 ) Applications under this provision should be 
made to the regional licensing authorities concerned . 
They should be accompanied by a photostat copy of 
the Shops and Establishments licence , and a decla 
ration of the applicant to the effect that he has not 
imported a camera in the past five ycars. 


( vi ) Import of second vehicle will be allowed 

only after a minimum period of five years 
from the date of import of first vehicle has 
elapsod . 


Restdunt reqairements 


NOTE : - ( 1 ) Foreign nationals of ſodian origin 

coming to India for good will be treated 
on par with Indian nationals in this 

regard . 
( 2 ) In 1510 Co busbaint mh wlie, 

other condus dro falud, IpXft 
application wade by eithor of there may 


154 . Other import requirements will be considered 
ou the merits vt each 184 *, " buc . br th} " chief 
( ontroller i finpitts andL uth , Now Delhi 


50 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

[PART |- -SEÇ . 1] 
- - - - -- - - - 
be considered in respect of a vehicle ( ii ) Full landed cost to be paid in foreigo 
purchased out of the earnings of the 

exchange by the applicant. 
other . This will , however, be subject 
to production of an affidavit by the 

( E ) Other Foreign experts (under Aid -Programme) 
husband or wife, as the case may be , non -diplomatic /home-based staff . 
that no separate application for import 

(i) Certificate of assignment /employment from 
of another vehicle shall be made. 

concerncd Government Department / Em 
( B ) Foreign ladies (including persons of Indian 

bassy , with general particulars of nature 
origin ) married to Indian nationals . 

of work and likely tenure , etc , as well as 

particulars of Aid - Programme, as applicable . 
( 1 ) As Gifts : 

(ii) purchase invoice /registration certificate of 
(1) gift has to be by a parent only ; 

ownership of the cars being imported . 


(i ) photostat copy of the marriage 

to be submitted ; 


certificate 


( i ) parent s certificate in original to be sub 

mitted , stating that it is an unsolicited gift, 
supported by banker s certificate regarding 
financial status of donor , 


( F ) 
( F ) Physically handicapped persons 
( i) cif value of car together with disability 

controls fitted in it should not exceed 
Rs. 65, 000 . Original invoice / purchase vou 
cher to be produced in support (Auto - trans 
mission is not treated as a disability control 
device ) , 


(iv ) import as gift to be allowed only once 

applicant s ine time ; 


in 


(v ) application has to be made within onc year 

of the marriage. 


( 2 ) Otherwise : 
(i) documentary evidence 10 be given regardlog 

applicant s financial status before marriage, 
supported by employer s certificate /income 
tax certificate /banker s certificate. 


( ii) Certificate in the proforma given in ( Appen 

dix XI- A of the Hand Book of Import-Ex 
port Procedures, 1985 - 88 , from the State 
Civil Surgeon or head of concerned wing in 
Government Hospital . Applications will be 
considered only from those applicants who 
have any of the following disabilities and 
the percentage of impairment is not less 
than 50 per cent of the total body as per 
Mebride Scale ines 


( ü ) affidavit sworn before appropriate authority 

to be filed , to the effect that the applicant 
is already settled in India or coming here 
for good. 


( 1 ) Unilateral / Bilateral amputees of the lower 
limbs excluding below knea unilateral amputees. 

( 2 ) Unilateral below elbow or above elbow am 
putees , 

( 3 ) Traumatic / permanent paralysis which cannot 
be surgically or medically treated . 


( C ) Foreign Nationals employed in India in public 

or private sectors. 
(i ) assignment in India to be for a minimum 

period of one year, supported by employer s 
certificate , in original. 


( 4 ) Permanent paralysis of one upper limb or both 
lower limbs due to any reason or hemiparesis . 

(5 ) Grossly deformed limbs due to trauma, arthi 
ritis or congenital but having at least one upper limbs 
normal. 


NOTE : -- Foreign nationals of Indian Origin coming 

to India on specific assignment like other 
foreign nationals will be treated on par with 
foreigu nationals in this regard . 


(ii ) If the car is a gift , confirmatury letter from 

donor, in original, which should also 
indicate the donor s relationship with the 
donee . 


( D ) Self -employed foreign nationals 
(i) State / Central Guveillent certificate stating 

the Dature of applicant s profession and 
reasons justifying import. 


(iv ) Satisfactory evidence clearly justifying the 

need and essentiality for import of a selt 
driven car by the applicant, 


51 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[ TT I - T 11 

मारत का राजपत्र : अगाधारण 

- - - - - - - 
- 

- - - - - __ 
- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - _ - " 

- - - - -- 

- - -- -- 

- 
(v ) Cars of only 2000 CC engine capacity 

(ii) only vehicles covered by specific RBI 
will be allowed . 

approval to expenditure overseas and used 

for the work . 
( vi) Gross income of the Applicant is not less 

than Rs. 30 ,000 per annum . Also , while ( iii ) only on substantial completion of contract. 
considering the application , it will be kept 
in view that the income is not so large that ( L ) Charitable and missionary institutions working 
he is able to afford a chauffieur . 

in India 
(G ) Branches/Offices of Foreign institutions ( cor 

( i) only gifts of utility vans, ambulances , 
porute or otherwise ) 

station wagons, jeeps , mini-buses or 

passenger transport vehicles etc. will be 
(i) full landed cost to be borne by foreign 

considered , 
principals. 

( ii ) certificate from concerned Government 
( ii ) ordinarily only one vehicle will be allowed - - 

authority to the effect that the institution is 
two only if there is more than one branch / 

an established one and has been functioning 
office in different towns. 

for the benefit of the community , irrespective 

of the considesation of " caste , colour or 
( iii) photostat copy of approval of Government 

creed " is to be furnished. 
or RBI for opening the branch /office, in 
question, in India, to be attached . 

( iii ) Provisions of Foreigo Contribution (Regula 

tion ) Act, 1976 to be complied with . 
( H ) Rupee company having foreign collaboration 
(i) full landed cost to be borne by foreign 

( M ) Honorary Consuls of foreign governments 
collaborators. 

there should be satisfactory evidence that 
( ii) collaboration agreement 

the car has been gifted by the Government 
should require 

represented by the Honorary Consul and 
employment/ visit of foreign director techpi 

the cost of the car plus freight and insurance 
cal experts . 

charges shall be borne by that foreign gov 
( iii ) Photostat copy of approval of Government / 

ernment; 
RBI for the foreign collaboration , to be 
attached . 

( ii ) the Honorary Consul shall pay full Customs 

duty for the car as loviable under normal 

Customs rules at the time of import ; 
( 1 ) Accredited journalists/ correspondents of foreign 
news agencies 

( iii ) the applications for the import of car should 
( i) application to be sponsored by and routed 

be recommended by the Ministry of Exter 
through Press Information Bureau , New 

nal Affairs in each case ; 
Delhi. 

( iv ) the replacement of the car may be conside 
(ii) letter from overseas employers that full 

red only after a minimum period of ten years 
landed cost of vehicle will be borne by 

from the date of import of car , and 
them ( English Translation to be attached ) . 

( v ) where an honorary consul is changed during 
( J ) Air companies 

the period of ten years from the date of 

import of car , the new honorary consul shall 
Applications will be routed through Depart 

not be allowed to import a fresh car but 
ment of Civil Aviation , Ministry of Tourism 

the car alrcady imported for earlier hono 
and Civil Aviation , and on their recommen 

ray consul shall be transferred to his suc 
dation only . 

cessor with the prior approval of the 
(K ) Indian firms executing contracts abroad 

CCI& E . 
(i) photostat copy of latter of RBI/Government ( 2 ) Spares upto CIF vulue of Rs. 2 , 5110 will be 
of ludia sinctioning the contract, 

allowed to be imported alongwith the vehicle . 


52 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART - Sec . 1] 


- 


- 


- 


( 3 ) The form and manner in which application 
Le required to be made are given in Appendix IX - A of 
the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures , 
1985 - 88 . 


(4 ) Applications may be made to the regional 
licensing authorities concerned , accompanied by the 
following documents : -- - 


( i) Donor s letter in original, 


( 4 ) No-sale period of imported car is also laid 
down in Appendix IX A of the Hand Book of Import 
Export Procedures, 1985 -88 . 
Import of vehicles by Hotels 

156 . Facilities for import of vehicles by approved 
tourist hotels are given in Chapter VIII of this Book . 


( ii ) An affidavit on stamped paper of the appro 

priate value, duly sworn in before an ap 
propriate judicial authority , showing : 


( a ) The exact relationship of the donor with 

the applicant; 


(b ) Declaring that he /she has not imported or 

otherwise acquired a foreigo made fire 
arm , namely, revolver, pistol, gun , riflc , 
either as gift or otherwise , during the 
preceding 10 years ; and 


CHAPTER X 

IMPORT OF GIFTS 
157 . Import of gifts upto Rs. 1, 250 in value 
( including electronic items of upto Rs, 500 / -) will be 
allowed by the Customs authorities without Customs 
Clearance Permits under the Savings Clause of the 
Imports (Control) Order , 1955 . 


(c ) Undertaking that the fire -arm applied for 

will not be sold , or otherwise disposed of, 
or parted with , within a period of ten 
years from the date of its importation , 
without obtaining specific permission of 
the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports, New Delhi. 


Taport of fire arms as gift 

158 . ( 1 ) . This will be allowed only froin close rela 
tions who are Indian nationals holding Indian passports 
and who have been living abroad continuously for a 
period of not less than two years . For this purpose , 
close relations will cover oply father, mother, wife, 
busband , son , daughter or real brother or real sister of 
the applicant. 


( ii ) An affidavit from the donor, declaring the 

period of his /her continuous stay abroad 
and giving particulars of his / her Indian 
passport, and 


( iv ) Original arms licence held under the Indian 

Arms Act by the applicant (donee ) , provid 
ed it is valid and duly renewed on the date 
of the application for grant of C . C .P , as 
well as on the date of (expected ) clearance 
of the gift. 


( 2 ) The Customs Clearance Permit will be issued 
only if the doncc has not imported or otherwise ac 
quired a foreign made fire arm during the last 10 years . 
Import of fire arms of non -prohibited bore only will 
be allowed . In the case of revolver and pistol, import 
will be allowed only if they are of . 32 or smaller bore. 
Import of cartridges as gift alongwith the fire arm may 
also be allowed provided the number does not exceed 
50 cartridges. Applications will be considered in cases 
where the c.i.f. value of the fire arm and the accom 
panying andunition as above does not exceed 
R , 3, 000 


(5 ) The C .C .P. will be issued with the condition 
that the fire- arm imported as gift shall not be 
sold or disposed of or parted with within a period of 
ten years from the date of endorsement of its posses 
sion on the arms licence . The fire - arm and the cartrid 
ges imported against the C .C . P . will both be subject to 
Actual User condition . 


( 3 ) No Customs Clearance Permit will normally be 
logued once the fire arm and ammunition have been 
despatched from abroad and / or their arrival in India . 
Applicants " , thoi+ f04 , dviratis to tai and hold 
I valid rustonis Clavance Permit before arranging 
the despatch of the fire -uit ampunition from abmad . 


(6 ) It is clarified that no permission of the CCI& E , 
New Delhi, shall be required for sale of fire-arms 
imported under this provision as gift or otherwise , pro 
vided a period of ten years lias lpsed from the date 
of import 


[ TTI- UT ] 

भारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 
S 

E - - - - 
Juport of video tape / casette recorders (with or Import of other articles as gifts 
without TV /monitor / camera ) 

160 . ( 1 ) In other cases, applications for the grant 
159 ( 1 ), This may be allowed only from close Customs Clearance Permits for import of articles 
relations who have been living abroad continuously received as gift will be condered on merits. Such 
for a period of not less than three years . For this applications may be considered from individuals , insti 
purpose , close relations will cover only father , mother , tutions and establishments. The provisions of Foreign 
wifo , husband , son , daughter or real brother of real Contribution (Regulation ) Act, 1976 should be 
sister of the applicant, 

complied with wherever they are attracted before 

applying for CCP. 
( 2 ) The Customs Clearance Permit may be issued 
only if the donee has not imported or otherwise ( 2 ) Applications may be made to the Chief Con 
acquired a foreign -made video tape /cassette recorder troller of Imports & Exports , New Delhi, except that, 
during the last ten years . The CCP where issued in the following types of cases, applications may be 
shall be subject to the condition that VTR /VCR made to the regional licensing authority concerned : 
imported (and TV /monitor /camera , if imported ) sball 
not be sold or disposed of or otherwise parted with 

(a ) Where the value does not exceed Rs. 25 ,000 
for a period of ten years from the date of clearance 

in the case of institution , in respect of 
through customs. 

articles for its own use ; and 


( 3 ) No Customs Clearance Permit will normally 
be issued once the goods bave been despatched from 
abroad and / or their arrival in India . Applicants are , 
therefore, advised to obtain and hold a valid CCP 
before arranging the despatch of VTR /VCR with or 
without TV /monitor /camera , 


( b ) Where the value does not exceed Rs. 10,000 

in the case of a registered medical practi 
tioner in respect of equipment/ instruments 
required for his own professional use . 


( 4 ) Applications may be made to the regional 
licensing authorities concerned , accompanied by the 
following documents : 


Note : Applications for consumer electronic items 

for a value exceeding Rs, 500 even within 
the value limits indicated in sub - paras ( a ) 
and (b ) above shall be made to CCI& E , 
New Delhi. 


161. ( 1 ) No application fee is required to be paid 
in the case of articles received as gift by an individual 
for his personal uso . In other cases, application foe 
will be required to be paid at the prescribed rate . 
The applicant should also furnish with his application 
the original letter received from the donor who is 
making the gift. In the case of institutions where the 
c.i.f, value of the article to be gifted exceeds Rs, one 
lakh , the applicant should also produce the recommen 
dation from the State Goveroment or the Central 
Government, as the case may be, in support of the 
request for import. 


(1) Donor s letter in original. 
( ii ) An affidavit of the applicant, on stamped 

paper of the appropriate value, duly sworn 
in before an appropriate judicial authority 
showing : -- 
( a ) the exact relationship of the donor with 

the applicant; 
(b ) declaring that he / she has not imported 

or otherwise acquised a foreign made 
VTR /VCR , with or without TV / 
monitor /camera , either as gift or other 
wise , during the preceding ten years; 

and 
(c ) undertaking that the VTR /VCR applied 

for shall not be sold , or otherwise dis 
posed of, or parted with , for a period 
of ten years from the date of its 

importation 
(i ) An affidavit from the donor, declaring the 

period of hiq /hor continuous stay abroad 
and giving particulars of his /her Indian 
passport . 


( 2 ) Apart from the value of the articles to be gifted , 
other considerations that will be taken into account 
while deciding these applications, will be the nature 
of the article offered as gift , and the relationship 
between the donor and the recipient , and the purpose 
for which an article is sought to be imported . In 
appropriate cases, the licensing authority may consult 
other Ministries concerned , 


( 3 ) Customs Clearance Permits , wherever issued 
will be subject to such conditions as may be imposod 
by the licensing authority 


54 


S 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

[ PART 1 - SEC. 1] 
S .- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - ---- - 

162. Where the recipient of it gift is a charitable, materials , componcnis , consumables and spares , 
religious / cducational institution registered under the provided : --- 
Societies Act or otherwise approved by Government 

( 1) They undertake to set up a new industry 
and the gift sought for import has been exempted from 
payment of customs duly by the Ministry of Finance , 

which conforms to the Government indus 
the imports may be allowed hy the customs authorities 

trial policy in force or participate in the 
without a Customs Clearance Permit, based on the 

cxpansion or diversification of an existing 
duty exemption order issued by the Ministry of 

unit within the framework of industrial 
Finance . 

policy ; or they wish to set up a servicing 

unit . 
163. Import of goods under Government to 
Government Agreements relating to specified projects ( 2 ) Details for import of capital goods including 
will be allowed under Open General Licenco , on 

import of capital goods under the Special 
production of necessary evidence to the customs 

Scheme for Electronics Industry are given in 
authorities . 

Chapter III of this Book , 
164 . Applications for the grant of Customs Clear 
ance Permits for import of cheque books, draft forms 

( 3 ) Details for import of raw materials , compo 
and traveller chequc forms may be considered from 

nents, consumables and spares, including 
Indian branches of foreign banks , insurance com 

import under the Special Scheme for Electro 
panies and travel agencies. Customs Clearance 

nics Industry are given in Chapter V of this 

Book . 
Permits may also , on request, be granted to foreign 
airlines /shipping companies operating in India , for 

( 4 ) In case where the Non -resident Indian / pci 
import of passage ticket forms, Applications in 

son of Indian origin desires to obtain a 
these cases should be made to the regional licensing 

Customs Clearance Permit in respect of 
authorities concerned , irrespective of the value applied 

items which are otherwise allowed for im 
for . 

port under Open General Licence , with a 
165 . Customs Clearance Permits may also be issued 

view to availing of concessional rate of duty 
for the import of : 

under Project Import facility, wherever 

eligible, he may apply for issue of CCP. 
(a ) Video tapes covering technical applications 
or electronic equipment, theoritical discus 

( 5 ) Application for import of capital goods 
sions, service instructions, parts catalogues, 

should be made in the Proforma given in 
etc ., and 

Appendix III- I of the Hand Bouk of Import 
(b ) Computer tapes consisting of programme 

Export Procedures, 1985 - 88 . Applications 
software, trouble shooting diagnostic , other 

for import of raw materials , components, 
data processing information , servicing jns 

consumables and spares should also be 
tructions, etc ., required by 

made in the same form till such time the 

Actual Users 
( Industrial) and Indian agents of foreign 

applicant switches over to the normal policy 
suppliers of goods, for instructional pur 

applicable to Actual Users. These applica 
poses, against purchase orders of such 

tions should be made to Special Approvals 

Committee (NRI) , Department of Industrial 
items. 

Development, Udyog Bhawan , New Delhi. 


CHAPTER XI 


(6 ) Applications for the grant of industrial 

licence in the prescribed form IL duly filled 
in with 14 spare copies and proposal for 
foreign collaboration , will also be consider 
ed by the Special Approvals Committee 
(NRI) . Every proposal so received from a 
non -resident Indian , person of Indian origin 
would be considered on a composite basis 
including issue of industrial licences, where 
necessary . Government s decision will be 
communicated to the applicant within a 
period of 45 days. 


FACILITIES FOR INDIANS RETURNING 

FROM /RESIDING ABROAD 


166 . Non -resident Indians /persons of Indian 
origin , who are returning to India for permanent settle 
ment, will be allowed to import capital goods, raw 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - - - - 

- - 
- - LAVALLET 


T A 


[HT IL * 1] भारत का राजपत्र : अमाधारण 

55 

- - - - - - _ - -- - - - : - _ - _ . - = 
( 7 ) l he industrial units concerned ( if they are qui no permission to sell the capitrdd goods will 
new ) will he required to get themselves ic 

he allowest for a period of five years from 
gistered with the sponsoring yuthorities 

the Jule of import. Thereafter, such sale 
concerned except in cases referred to in sula . 

may be allowed, only with the prior per. 
paras ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) above , within a period 

mission of the Chief Controller of Imports 
of one year from the date of import of 

& Exports , New Delhi, 
capital goods, in accordance with the 
policy laid down. 

( viii ) Neither the capital invested nor the profits 

will be allowed to be repatriated abroad ; 
( 8 ) Importers eligible to import machinery and 

other items under this Chapter will be ( ix ) Import shall be subjcct to such other con 
exempt from production of " Importer Code 

ditions as may be imposed on the licence . 
Number" for a period of one year from the 
date of import of capital goods for their 

Machinery for Agricultural Production / Development 
units . 

168 . Import of machinery required for agricultural 
( 9 ) Neither the Capital invested nor the profits 

production /development, purchased out of applicant s 
would be allowed to be repatriated abroad . 

own foreign exchange earnings and resources abroad 

will also be allowed , to Non -resident Indians/ persons 
( 10 ) No permission to sell the capital goods 

of Indian origin , who are returning home for perma 
will be allowed for a period of 5 years from 

nent settlement, subject to the conditions laid down, 
the date of import. Thereafter, such sale 
may be made, only with the prior permission 
of the Chief Controller of Imports and Imports under Normal Conditions 
Exports, New Delhi, 

169 ( 1) . Facilities for import of capital goods, raw 

materials , components , consumables and spares, a 
Amusement Parks 

mentioned above , will not be available to the catego 

ries, given below : 
167 . Non - resident Indians / persons of Indian origin , 
who are returning home for permanent settlement, may 

(1) Non -resident Indians who do not intend to 
also be allowed the facility of setting -up amusement 

return to India but wish to invest in an 
park , subject to the following conditions : 

enterprise in India ; 
(i) Such imports should be fully fipanced out of 

Persons of Indian origin residing abroad 
their own foreign cxchange savings and re 

and investing in an enterprise in India ; 
sources abroad ; 

(iii) Companies, firms, societies and similar 
(ii) The industry will be treated as Actual User 

other corporate bodies, owned to the extent 
(Non- industrial) ; 

of at least 60 per cent by non - resident 

persons referred to in (i) to ( ii ) above , 
( lit ) All the applications should be routed 

through the concerned Department of the 
State Government to the Department of 

In their cases, import will be governed as por 
Social Welfare , Government of India , New 

normal provisions of import and export policy. 
Delhi, who will be the sponsoring authority 
for this purpose ; 

( 2 ) In arriving at the share in the equity capital of 

the firm or company setting up or owning the indus 
( iv ) Only CCPs will be issued irrespective of 

trial unit concerned , the percentage share referred to 
value ; 

above may be of thc eligible person concerned , or of 

a company , firm , sociсty or similar other corporate 
(v ) Import of new machinery /equipment will body owned to the extent of at least 60 per cent by 
only be allowed ; 

such person ( s). Such ownership may be director 

indirect through subsidiaries, etc., but the utilimato 
(vi) Games of chance or luck will not be ownership should be by NRIs to the extent of at least 
allowed ; 

60 % 


56 


- 


- 


- 


- 


THL GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

[PART 1 - SEC, 1 ] 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- = = - - = - = 
170 . Facilities are also ava lable for investinent In ( c ) There shall be # hirm commitment for 
Indian companies by Non -Resident Indians / persons of 

absorption , adaptation and subsequent 
Indian origin . Details can be bad from the India Invest 

dovelopment of imported know - how through 
ment Centre. 

adequate investment in Research & Develop 

ment to which importers of technology will 
171. Neither the capital investnient nor dividends 

be expected to contribute . 
would be allowed to be repatriated abroad in the case 
of those returning to India for settlement. In other 
cases, repatriation facilities will be subject to Govern 

( 3 ) In dealing with technology transfer relating to 
ment s policy as in force from time to time. 

international competitiveness and technology exports, 
the Policy has stated that it is necessary to maintain 
international competitiveness in products, services and 
technologies that have export potential. Conditions 
for the marketing of indigenous technology and ot 
products based on it will be improved . It is 

important in all such cases to conform to the highest 
CHAPTER XII 

international standards . 
IMPORT OF TECHNOLOGY 

173. Import of technology will be considered on 
172 . ( 1) The basic objectives of the Technology Open General licence in selected sectors /industries. 
Policy annonced by the Government of India are the Such arcas would be identified and notified by the 
development of indigenous technology and efficient 

Goverament subsequently . 
absorption and adaptation of imported technology 
appropriate to national priorities and resources . The 174 . The Import & Export Policy contains a 
aims of the policy inter alia include : 

number of specific provisions with the objective of 

promoting technological upgradation . Cost- effective 
(a ) attaining technological competence and self 

ness, optimum use of raw materials and energy savings 
Teliance ; 

are sought to be achieved through a package of 

technology inputs . These are indicated below :-- 
(b ) identifying obsolescence of technology in 
use and arrange for modernisation of both 

(i) The Ministry of Industry and Company 
cquipment and technology ; 

Affairs has the Technical Development Fund 
(c ) develop technologies which are inter 

to cover foreign exchange requirements for 
nationally competitive , particularly those 

import of balancing equipment having impact 

on quality and / or quantity of output, import 
with export potential. 

of technical know - how , acquiring foreign 
(2 ) The Technology Policy Statement hits also 

consultancy service etc . The foreign ex 
dealt with the issues relating to indigenous technology 

change limit per unit under this scheme is 
and technology acquisition . The basic principles 

US $ equivalent to Rs. 1 crore. (Details 
governing the acquisition of technology will be : 

are given in Chapter XII of the Hand Book 

of Import- Export Procedures, 1985 -88 ) . 
( a ) Import of technology and foreign investment 
in this regard , will continue to be permitted 

( ii ) ( a ) All scheduled industries mentioned in the 
only on a selective basis where : need has 

First Schedule to the Industries (Develop 
been established ; technology does not exist 

ment and Regulation ) Act, 1951 whether 
within the country ; the time taken to 

in the large or small scale sector, will be 
generato the technology indigenously would 

allowed the facility of import of drawings 
delay the achievenient of development 

and designs subject to the following condi 
targets . 

tions : 


(i) Imports will be allowed only once in a year 

to an industrial undertaking ; and 


( b ) Government may, from time to time, identify 

and notify such areas of high national 
prlority , in respect of which procedures 
would bo simplified further to ensure timely 
acquisition of the required technology , 


( ii ) The value of such drawings and designs 

should not exceed Rs 25 lakhs. 


[WTI U1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


57 


( vi ) R & D units and Scientific / Research Labora 

tories are permitted to import all their le 
quirements for R & D purpose , under OGL , 
(Details are given in Appendix 6 of this 
Policy ) . 


( vii ) Liberalised provisions have been made for 

import of samples / pricotypes . (Details are 
given in Chapter JII of this Policy) . 


(b ) Applications for import of drawings and 

designs from industrial undertakings, which 
satisfy the above conditions, may be made 
in the prescribed form to the Secretariat of 
Industrial Approvals ( F . C . Unit ), Depart 
ment of Industrial Development, New Delhi. 
The S .LA , will process the applications , and 
if there is no objection , issue necessary letter 
of approval within a period of one month 
from the date of receipt of the application . 
Import of drawings and designs by the indu 
strial undertakings will be allowed by the 
Customs authorities on the production of 
approval letter from the Secretariat of In 
dustrial Approvals without the need for 
an import licence . Applications for remit 
tance should be submitted to the concerned 
regional office of the Reserve Bank of India , 
through an authorised dealer in foreign cx 
change , quoting a reference to the approval 
letter . 


( viii) Provision has been made for import of solar 

energy equipment and a number of other 
equipment/ items for energy conservation 
under OGL ( vide Appendix 6 of this 
Book ) . 


( iii) In addition to ( ii ) above , import of drawings 

and designs for an additional amount upto 
Rs, 5 lakhs ( or Rs, 20 lakhs by export 
oriented units ) against REP licence auto 
matically without Government s prior 
approval can also be made . REP licences 
can also be utilised for this purpose for a 
higher value, subject to DGTD s con 
cuncurrence. (Details are given in Chapter 
XIV of this Policy ) . 


( ix ) The facilities available to highly qualified 

scientists returning home for settlement havo 
been substantially liberalised , If such 
persons have lived abroad for at least two 
years before returning to India and have 
been using professional scientific equip 
ment/ instruments for at lcast one year, 
they will be allowed to import the same 
without import control restrictions, Equip 
ment not used abroad for a minimum one 
year period would also be allowed to be 
imported without import licence but upto a 
value not exceeding Rs. one lakh in each 
case ; for a higher value import in such cases 
CCPs will be necessary . ( Details are given 
in Chapter XI of the Hand Book of Import 
Export Procedures , 1985 - 88 ) . 


(iv ) The policy for import of machinery by units 

having a prescribed level of export perfor 
mance, against their REP licences has beco 
liberalised to enable such units to moderuise 
themselves. They will be able to import 
niachinery of the type required , upto a 
value of Rs. 75 lakhs depending upon the 
level of exports and subject to other condi 
tions laid down . ( Details are given in 
Chapter Ill of this Policy ) . 


175. In order to enable industrial undertakings to 
reduce energy consumption , import of other machinery 
and equipment will be allowed to Actual Users (Indus 
trial) on merits. 


176 ( 1 ) . Import will also be allowed of the follow 
ing items required by industrial units for energy 
conservation : 


(i) Improved gland packing materials and seals . 
(ii) Special types of anticorrosive paints . 
(ii) Epoxy coating. 
( iv ) Special coating polymers and chemicals for 

energy conservation . 


( v ) Export Houses, whose export performance in 

the prececling financial year is not less than 
Rs, one crore, and Trading Houscs are 
permitted the facility of import of technical 
designs, drawings and other documentations 
upto a value of Rs. 10 lakhs and Rs. 25 
lakhs respectively against REP /Additional 
licences issued to them in their own favour 
for supply to their supporting manufacturers 

vide Chapter XXI of this Policy . 
58 GI/ 85-- 5 . 


( v ) Maintenance free steam traps. 


( vi) Foam Glass insulations, 
( vii ) Polyurethane Foam insulations, 


58 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1- - Sec . 1] 


mu 


( 2 ) Applications for import of the above items will 
be considered by CCI& E , New Delhi on the recom 
mendation of DGTD ( Import & Export Policy Cell ) , 
Udyog Bhavan , New Delhi, 


178 . The Coordination Committee, referred to in 
paragraph 177 above , will also consider request for 
import of technology development in the following 
priority areas : 


(i) environment ; 


( 3 ) Import of the above items may also be 
arranged in bulk through STC to meet the require 
inents of those industrial units which find it difficult 
to import small quantities required by them . 


( ii ) Agriculture including dry -land farming ; 


( iii ) optimum use of water resources ; 
( iv) increased production of pulses and oil seeds ; 
(v ) provision for drinking water in rural areas ; 


177 . In addition to the above -mentioned provisions , 
some additional facilities will also be available for 
greeting import requirements in ccrtain specificd condi 
lions indicated below . These requirements will be 
considered by the Coordination Committee , which is 
headed by the CCI& E , New Delhi and includes 
representatives of the Department of Science and 
Technology and other Ministries /Departments con 
cerned . 


( vi) improvement of nutrition ; 


( vii ) rapid reduction in the 

ness ; 


incidence of blind 


( i) Imports necessary for upgradation /develop 

ment of technology, which could help in 
( a ) export production , (b ) energy conser 
vation , ( c ) cost reduction and (d ) reduc 
tion in material content. 


( viii ) cradication of major communicable diseases 

(such as leprosy and tuberculosis ) ; 
( ix ) population stabilization ; 


(x ) low -cost housing ; and 


( xi ) development and use of renewable non 

conventional sources of energy i 


( ii ) Import of machinery where it would result 

in significant economies in raw material 
consumption of the order of not less than 
10 per cent or where the import will reduce 
production cost of the unit by at least 10 
per cent, Such applications would be con 
sidered on recommendation of the sponsor 
ing authority. Preference will be given 
to units exporting atleast 25 % of their pro 
duction and to the units using their REP 
licences to cover the imports involved . 


179. The Coordination Committee will also con 
sider any othér suggestions to improve technological 
up - gradation within the overall policy of the Gover 
ment in this regard , 


CHAPTER XIII 


ITEMS FOR STOCK AND SALE 


( iii) Import of know - how , designs, consultancy 

etc . for the improvement of the technology 
in cases where the industrial units have been 
exporting at least 25 per cent of their 
production annually in the last 3 years with 
a minimum of Rs. 5 .00 lakhs each year , 
The amount of foreign exchange will be 
decided on merits keeping in view the order 
of export , investments already made etc . 


180 . Details of the items allowed for import under 
Open General Licence by dealers , individuals and 
others for stock and sale purposes I.e, without an 
Actual User condition , are given in Appendix 6 . In 
respect of certain items indicated therein , the imports 
will he govemed by the conditions attached thereto . 


( iv ) Import of know -how , designs , consultancy 

etc. upto a value of Rs. One crore in the 
case of R & D units recognised by Depart 
ment of Science and Technology which have 
been in existence for at least 3 years during 
which they have made substantial invest 
ment in R & D work , 


Import of Fresh Fruits , Dry Fruits & Dates 

181 ( 1 ) . Import of Fresh Fruits will be allowed , 
within the limits of foreign exchange to be allotted 
by the Department of Economic Affairs for this pur 
pose , only through the National Agricultural Compe 
rative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED ) . 


[ATTI - U11 


भारत का राजपन्न . असाधारण 


Import of photographic films 

182 ( 1 ) . Import of photographic film (colour ) 
and photographic film (black and white ) of other than 
120 and 620 roll size , can be made by all persons 
under OGL, subject to the conditions laid down. 

(2 ) Import of photographic films (black and white ) 
of 120 and 620 roll size will be regulated having re 
gard to the indigenous availability . The quantum of 
import and the manner of distribution will be decided 
by Government from time to time. 


12 ) Import of Daics will be allowed voder UGL 
by all persons, if such import takes place by Indian 
sailing vessels . 

( 3 ) Import of dry fruits ( excluding cashewnuts 
and datcs ) will be allowed against licences issued to 
dealers engaged in this trade. The value of import 
licence in each case will be equal to 20 per cent of 
the c.i.f. value of best year s imports of the applicant 
in respect of dry fruits (excluding cashewnuts and 
Jates) during any of the financial years from 
1972 -73 to preceding licensing year, subject to a 
minimum of Rs. 5 ,000 . Application should be mado 
to the regional licensing authorities concerned on or 
before the last date of February of the licensing year 
to which the application pertains, accompanied by 
certificate of Chartered Accountant or Cost Accoun 
tant who is not a partner, Director or an employce of 
the applicant firm or its associates, indicating the c .i.l. 
value of imports made by the applicant in his own 
name during any of the aforesaid years. The state 
njent of imports should also give the numbers and 
dates of Bills of Entry and the dame of Customs House 
of clearance to enable the licensing authorities to carry 
out post verification of the imports claimed . The 
Bills of Entry , in original , should also be furnished 
alongwith the statement of imports . In addition , the 
applicant should also furoish , for the purpose of 
verification , original Bills of Entry as an evidence of 
the imports on the basis of which he obtained import 
licence in 1981 -82 ( or 1982 - 83 if no licence was 
obtained under 1981 -82 policy ; or 1983 - 84 if no 
licence was obtained under 1981- 82 or 1982 -83 policy 
or 1984 - 85 if no licence was obtained in 1981- 82 or 
1982 - 83 or 1983 -84 ) . However, once an importer 
has submitted the original Bill of Entry, on tho basis 
of which his best year s imports has been established 
to the satisfaction of the licensing authority , and im 
port licence has been issued during 1981- 82 , 1982 -83 , 
1983- 84 or 1984 -85 , licence in the subsequent yearg 
may be granted on the basis of information already 
furnished and accepted . 


Import of Ammunition 

183 ( 1 ) . Import licences may be issued to licensed 
Arms Dealers for import of specified type of ammu 
nition , at 5 per cent of the value of their annual 
average sales turnover of ammunition (whether indi 
genous or imported ) during the last three years 
subject to a minimum of Rs, 2 ,000 . Import licences 
will be valid for import of the following ammuns 
tion : 


(i) Shotgun Cartridges 28 . 
(ii) Revolver Catridges .450 , .455 , .45 bores, 
(iii) Pistol Catridges 25, . 30 Mauser, .450, . 45 

bores . 


( iv) 


Riflle Cartridges 6 .5 inm , . 22 savage , . 22 
Hornet, 300 Sherwood , 32 / 40 , .256 , . 275 , 
. 280 , 7m / m Mauser, 7m /m Man Schoener, 
9m / m Mauser , 9m /m Man Schoener, 8x57, 
8x575 , 9 .3m / m , 9 .5m /m , .375 Magnum , 
,405 , . 30 .06 , 270 , . 30 / 30 Winch , . 318 , . 33 
Winch , . 240 Mangnum , .351 Winch , .275 
Mag., . 350 Mag, 400 / 350 , 369 Purdey , 
.450 / 400 , 470 , .32 Win , 458 Win , . 380 
Rook , .220 Swift, .44 Win bores . 


(4 ) For grant of an import licence, if any intending 
importer is unable to furnish the original Bill of Entry 
and he is able to establish its loss, the collateral 
evidencc furnished by him may be accepted provided 
the concerned licensing authority , for the reasons to 
he recorded in full in all such cases , is fully satisfied 
about such evidence . 


( 2 ) Eligible licensed Arms Dealers may apply 10 
the prescribed Form given in Appendix XIII - A of 
the Hand Book of Import - Export Procedures , 1985 -88 
together with supporting documents including a 
certificate of Chartered Accountant or Cost Accountant 
or Company Secretary , who is not a partner or 
Director or an employee of the applicant firm or its 
associates , indicating year-wise value of their sales 
turnover of ammunition (indigenous or imported ) 
during the last three years. This certificate should also 
mention the No. and date of the valid Arms Dealer s 
licence held by the applicant on the date of the import 
application . Applications should be made to the 
regional licensing authorities concerned so as to reach 
them not later than 31st July of the year to which 
the application pertains. 


( 5 ) Import licences issued under sub -para ( 3 ) 
above will also be valid . within their overall value , 
for import of dates ( wet or dry ) by land route , upto 
10 per cent of the value of the licence, subject to a 
marimum of Rs. 25 ,000 in each case . 


60 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART |-- Sec. 1) 


S 


Eligibility 

189 ( 1). Exports made of products appearing in 
Appendix 17 will qualify for the grant of import 
replenishment only if such exports are made in 
accordance with the export policy in force . 


(2 ) Products for which minimum export prices, i.c . 
floor prices, have been fixed will qualify for import 
replenishment only if they satisfy this condition ; a 
declaration of the exporter about his compliance with 
this condition should accompany the relevant import 
application . Also , where the lioensing authority con 
siders that the value of the goods exported is over 
invoiced or there has been a mis-declaration / wrong 
description of the goods exported , it shall be open to 
it either to refuse the licence or reduce its value as 
deemed fit. This shall be without prejudice to any 
other action that may be taken under the import -export 
statute or other legal provisions , 


184 ( 1 ) Application for import of arms and ammu 
nition from " renowned shooters" , for their own use , 
may be entertained by the CCI & E , New Delhi, on 
the recommendation of the Department of Youth 
Affairs and Sports, Government of India , New Delhi. 

(2 ) Applications of import of arms and ammuni 
tion from renowned shooters, for their own use , to be 
received as gift from abroad , may also be entertained 
by the CCI& Ė , New Delhi on the recommendation of 
the Department of Youth Affairs and Sports, Govern 
ment of India , New Delhi. 
Import of weedicides for stock and sale 

185 . Import of weedicides , namely, (i ) Metha 
zenzthiazuron ( Tribunil), (ü ) Metozuron (Dosanex ) 
and (iii) Isoproturon ( tolkan and Arclon ), and other 
pesticides, weedicides and insecticides, whether in 
finished formulations or in technical form , as may be 
required , may be arranged through a public sector 
designated agency , on the recommendation of the 
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and 
on the basis of foreign exchange released by the De 
partment of Economic Affairs , Import will be allow 
ed subject to such conditions as may be decided by 
Government. 
Items allowed for import by Actual Users and others 

for Stock and Sale 

186 . Import of raw materials, components and con 
sumables is allowed on Open General Licence to Actu 
al Users (Industrial) in accordance with the conditions 
laid down vide items ( 1) and (2 ) of Appendix 6 of this 
policy . In respect of certain items, out of these, import 
under Open General Licence can also be made by 
others , apart from Actual Users ( Industrial) for stock 
and sale purposes. These items are listed in Part III , 
List 8 of Appendix 6 of this policy Book . 
Import of Spares for Stock and Sale 

187 . Details for import of spares for stock and salo 
are given in Chapter VI of this policy Book . 


190 . The following types of " decmed exports" will 
also qualify : 
( a ) Sales to foreign tourists of the items speci 

field in para 209 of this policy ; 
( b ) Supplies made to IBRD / IDA aided projects 

in India where such supplies are made under 
the procedure of international competitive 

bidding ; 
( C ) Supplies made in India to United Nations 

Organisations or under the Aid Programmes 
of United Nations and other multi -national 
agencies , at international prices and paid 
for in free foreign exchange ; 


( d ) Sales to foreign shipping companies , where 

payment is received in foreign exchange or 
in Indian Rupees obtained from the ex 
change of foreign currency ; 


(c ) Supplies of fitment items ( of Capital Goods 

nature ) to Indian shipyards building ocean 
going ships ; 


CHAPTER XIV 


IMPORT POLICY FOR REGISTERED 

EXPORTERS 
188 . The object is to provide to the Registered 
Exporters, hy way of import replenishment, the 
materials ( all or some) required in the manufacture 
of the products exported . 


(f) Supplies made in India to projects financed 

by multilateral or bilateral external assis 
tance, either under international competitive 
bidding or under limited tender required 
under the procedure governing multilateral/ 
bilateral assistance and allowing tendering 
to parties from both India and abroad . 
( This will apply to supplies made to pro 
jects as a result of tenders opened hy the 
project authoritics on or after 11th Decem 
ber , 1981) ; 


[ 967 I - 


] 


भारत का राजपत्र : भसाधारण 


of 


(8 ) Supplies made in India to units in free trade 

zones or 100 % export-oriented units, 
according to the policy laid down under the 
respective schemes ; 


would be that in force on the date of realisation 
sale proceeds . 


(h ) Supplies made in India of intermediate 

products to holders of Advance licences 
under the scheme for supply of intermediate 
products contained in Appendix 19 . 


Extent of Import Replenishment 

193 (1). The extent of import replenishment 
permissible against each product enumerated in 
column 2 of Appendix 17 shall be that set out in 
column 3 thereof. These percentages will apply in 
the case of exports made on or after 1 -4 - 1985 
except for registered contracts to which the relevant 
provisions would apply . 

(2 ) The provisions made in para 220 may be 
referred to in respect of exports of new products on 
to new markets . 


(i) Supplies al international prices of raw mate 

rials , components , machinery, equipments , 
instruments , accessories, tools , and spares 
( excluding consumables, oflice machines and 
consumer goods, howsoever described) to 
ONGC , Oil India Ltd . and Gas Authority of 
India Ltd ., both for their off-shore and on 
shore exploration , drilling and production 
operations in pursuance of offers / orders / 
contracts based on such offers / orders . 


( 3 ) In respect of exports made through Indian 
vessels, the registered exporter will be eligible for 
REP licence under the import policy for Registered 
Exporters in accordance with the provisions made 
in Appendix 17, at the rate of import replenishment 
higher by 10 % of the normal ratc , 1., . 11 % instcad 
of the normal 10 % and so on . 


( j) Other supplies made in India against inter 

national competitive bidding where the 
payment is received in free foreign cxcbaoge . 


Categories of Registered Exporters 

194. They comprise of merchant-exporters , manu 
facturer-exporters and Export Houses (including 
Trading Houses ). 


191. The following exports will not qualify : 
(i) Esports to Bhutan except supplies made 

by Indian suppliers against payoient in free 
foreign exchange by United Nations agencies 
in connection with their Aid Programmes 
or supplies made to IBRD / IDA aided 
projects ; 


Items permissible for Import 

195 ( 1). The items permissible for import against 
each export product covered by this policy are given 
in column 4 of the policy statement given in 
Appendix 17 , read with column 5 . 


(ii ) Exports 10 Nepal and Afghanistan except 

those paid for in free foreign exchange or 
in accordance with the procedures for pro 
curement under IBRD , IDA / ADB regula 
tions ; 


(ii ) Exports under barter deals or under trade 

promotion agreements entered into by 
public sector enterprises in India with over 
seus buyers, unless otherwise provided with 
prior Government approval in the relevant 
baster deal or trade promotion agrecnicot ; 
and 


( 2 ) Import of technical designs, drawings or other 
documentation and / or facilities for type testing abroad 
may be allowed to manufacturer exporter s against 
REP licences , upto Rs. 5 lakhs in value ( or Rs. 20 
lakhs in value in the case of units which exported 
select products atlcast 25 % of their production in any 
of the two previous financial years subject to a 
minimum of Rs. 5 lakhs , or which exported select 
products of atleast Rs. 1 crore in FOB value 
in any of the two previous financial years ) in each case 
during the licensing year for which an endorsement on 
REP liccace will be made, on request, by the licen 
sing authority concerned . The manufacturer-exporter 
should send post -facto intimation to the Director 
General of Technical Development ( Import and 
Export Policy Cell) , New Delhi, immediately after 
the import has been made, Requests for import of 
these items of higher value may also be considered by 
the licensing authority concerned in consultation 
with DGTD . 


( iv ) Exports to Bangladesh against commodity 

grants under the Ministry of Commerce 
Public Notice No. 3 - - ETC ( PN ) / 75 dated 
25- 1 - 1975 . 


192 . Exports on consignment basis will qualify 
only after the proceeds have been realised against final 
sales. The import replenishment rale lo such cases 


62 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - - SEC , 1] 


= = = SLU 


(3 ) The facility for import of technical designs 
etc , upto Rs . 20 lakhs in value, available in 
sub -paia ( 2 ) above to manufacturer-exporters having 
a minimum export performance as laid down, can 
be availed of hy them either against their own valid 
REP licences obtained on the basis of their exports 
as per policy , or against valid REP licence acquired 
by transfer in accordauce with the import policy . 
The licensing authority , while making an endorsement 
on REP licence for the purpose uuder sub - para (2 ) 
above , shall also impose Actual User condition . Where 
the manufacturer- exporter intends to transfer the 
balance value of the REP licenco , in question , under 
the provisions of the import policy, the licensing 
authority may, on request, issue a separate non 
transferable licence for import under sub -para (2 ) 
above, by corresponding reduction in the value of the 
concerned main REP licence. 


dix IV - F of the Hand Book of Import -Export 
Procedures, 1985 - 88 . At the time of clearance , 
the importer will be required to declare to the customs 
that these particulars regarding the consigoment sought 
to be cleared have been sent to the concerned Cana 
tising Agency, viz . . ... . . . . vide letter No.. .. . . . . . . . 
dated . . . . . . . . Failure to comply with this require 
ment will entail penal action under the imports statute , 
besides the stoppage of the facility to the licence 
holder against current licences and denial of further 
licences to him . 


( 2 ) In respect of items appearing in Appendix 5 
Part B , which do not specifically figure in the shop 
ping list against various export products in Appendix 
17 , prior approval of the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports, New Delhi, will also be necessary before 
effecting imports as laid down in Para 73 of this 
policy . Such prior approval will not be ncccsary in 
respect of items which appear in Advance licenco 
issued under Duty Exemption Scheine in Appendix 19 . 


(4 ) The facilities in sub -paras ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) above 
will be uscd by the manufacturer-exporter only for 
the purpose of authorised production , 


Import of Capital Goods against REP licences 


196 (1 ). REP licences will also be valid for the 
import of computer tags cards, printed /woven labels , 
printed polyetlıylene / polypropylenc bags, illustrated 
catalogues, pictures, albums and mailing lists , pricing/ 
wanking / coding equipments / hand operated labelling, 
upto 2 per cent of the value of each licence and within 
its overall value. 


198 . The provision relating to import of Capital 
goods / prototypes by Actual user (Industrial) against 
REP licence (s) is given in para 50 -of this policy . 


( 2 ) In cases where the items mentioned in sub 
para ( 1 ) above are supplied free of charge, Customs 
Clearance Purmit will be considered , provided the 
items are used for purposes of exports only . 


Import of samplos by Registered Exporters 

199 . Samples imported by exporters for export 
production purposes will be exempt from import 
control restrictions , if such samples are imported 
against the blanket release of foreign exchange pro 
vided by the Reserve Bank of India for travel abroad . 


( 3 ) Registered exporters may be granted Customs 
Clearance Permits for import of labels and other items 
mentioned in sub -para ( 1) above , supplied free of 
charge , of a value equal to une per cent of the FOB 
value of their exports during the preceding year of 
readymade garments covered by Products Group O 
in Appendix 17 . The Customs Clearance Permits 
will hear a condition that the imported articles will 
be used only for exports . 


200 . Manufacturer -exporters can import technical 
sainples valued upto Rs. 20 , 000 c .i. f. under OGL 4 , 
provided these are supplied free of charge by foreign 
suppliers. Customs authorities will also lake a liberal 
view in allowing clearance of such samples which are 
imported as personal baggage of the manufacturer 
exporter. Export Promotion Councils , Trade Deva 
lopment Authority ( TDA ) and Export Houses / Trad 
ing Housses can also import technical samples under 
OGL 4 , subject to the conditions laid down therein , 


Import of canalised Iteins against REP licences 

197 ( 1). The holder of a REP licence may effect 
direct import of those canalised items as appear in that 
licence , upto the extent permitted therein or which 
can be imported against the licence under any specific 
provision in this policy. In such cases, it shall be a 
condition that the importer sball furnish particulais 
of the imports made to be coalising agency concern . 
ed in the proscribed proforma appearing in Apper 


201 . Import of samples may be allowed by the 
customs authorities without import licence in cases 
where ( i) the valuo does not exceed Rs. 10 ,000 , 
( ii ) the importer is a registered manufacturer-exporter 
and produces evidence to this effect to the customs 
authorities at the time of clearance . The authorised 
dealere in foreign exchange may opeo letters of credit 
or make remittance on behalf of the registered uranu 
facturer erporten against ruch importe after eatis 


[ATTI. 1] 

भारत का राजपक्ष : असाधारण 
- = 
fying themselves about the bona fide of the applicants to the licensing authorities concerned for suitable 
and their compliance with the conditions stipulated endorsement, on the recommendation of the Expor 
above . 

Promotion Council, Trade Development Authority or 

other registering authority concerned . 
202 . REP licence issued to a Registered Exporter 
on his own exports will be valid within the value of the Special Facilities to Registered Exporters 
licence for the import of samples required for product 
development by the registered exporter himself or by 

204 ( 1). A manufacturer-exporter holding a valid 

REP licence issued in his own name against exports 
his supporting manufacturer, upto Rs. one lakh pro 
vided the import of each type of sample is not more 

of select products manufactured by him will be eligible 
than two in number . This limit will be Rs. 50 , 000 

to import within the overall value of REP licence 
for others . This facility will not be available for 

items of raw materials , components , consumables , 
import of the following items : 

spares and packing materials which are related to 

select products exported or manufactured by him 
(i) T.V . set, 

either in the same factory as the one from which the 
( ü ) Air Conditioner, 

goods were exported against the REP licence con 

cerned or in some other factory of the same namo 
( iii ) Refrigerator, 

of the manufacturer. However, in respect of items 
(iv ) Cooking Range , 

covered by sub - para ( 2 ) below , import will be subject 
(v ) Washing machine, 

to the value restrictions indicated against the different 

categories of licence holders . The special facility 
(vi) Motor Cycle , Scooter and Moped , 

will be subject to the following conditions : - - 
( vi ) Radiogram , 

( i) Items mentioned in Appendix 2 and 
( viii ) Tape recorder , 

Appendix 5 - Part B of this Policy will not 
( ix ) Amplifier, 

be allowed to be imported . Import of 
( x ) Camcra /Movie Camera , 

(1) Raw Silk , and (i ) Componcnt/modules 

of electronic watches , clocks and time piccu s 
( xi) Movie Projector, 

will also not be allowed . 
( xii ) Golf set, 

( i ) Import of instruments will not be allowed 
( xiii) Watch , 

under this facility. However , import of 
(xiy ) Electric Shaver, 

testing , measuring and quality control instru 
(XV ) Hair Dryer, 

ments used in electronic industry will be 

allowed upto 20 % of the face value of the 
( xvi) Flash gun , 

licence subject to a single item not excceding 
( xvii ) Exposure meter, 

Rs. one lakh . 
( xviji) Moror Vehiclo (car, jeep , bus, truck , uactor (i ) Import of tools including consumable tools 
etc . ) , 

will be allowed under this facility subject 
(xix ) Oflice machines / equipment, 

to the value restrictions on items referreu 

to at Sl. No. 1 in sub - para (2 ) below . 
( xx ) VCR /VTR , 

( iv ) Additional import replenishment wherever 
(xxi) Computer ( including personal computer, 

provided in column 5 against certain 
word processing system and Desk Top 

Sl. Nos, in Appendix 17 of this Policy will 
Computer ). 

not be allowed to be used for this facility . 

Against such additional import replenish 
But this restriction will not apply to the iraport of 

ments, only the items specifically permitted 
TV set, Air conclitoner, Refrigerator , Radiogram , 

in column 5 will be allowed . 
Tape recorder, Amplifier, Flash gun , Two -wheeler, 
moped , scooter and motor cycle , by a manufacturer 

(v ) Import of components under this para by 
exporter who is an Actual User ( Industrial ) himself 

DGTD and textile inachinery manufacturing 
manufacturing such item (s ) . 

units which are or which have been subject 

to phased manufacturing programme will 
203 . Manufacturtr- experters Aquiring 10 import 

be governed by the List Attestation 
samples , for a value higher than that perinissible in 

Procedure contained in Para 94 of this 
para 202 above against their REP licences, can apply 

Book . 


64 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


( PART I - Sec . 1 ] 


(vi) Single item for which the valuc limit is 

provided in this para will have the same 

meaning as defined in para 7 of this book . 
( vi ) The imports when made will be subject to 

Actual User conditions. 
(vlü ) REP licences to be used for the facility 

under this para shall be " non - transferable " 
and shall be endorsed accordingly , 


( 2 ) The differcat categories of REP licence holders , 
tace value restrictions for import of items, value limits 
for import of single item in Appendix 3 or 
Appendix 5 - Part A based on the replenishment 
percentages jadicated in column 3 in Appendix 17 of 
this Policy against the relevant export products and 
conditions subject to which import is allowed aro 
given below : 


Items pormitted 
for import 


Si. Category of REP Where the REP Maximum 
No. conco holder percentage in faco value 

App . 17 of thuis upto which 
policy is 

REP 
Hconce cap 
be utilisod 


Maximum 
value Imit 
for Import 
of a single 
item in 
col, S . 


Enhanced Conditions for enhanced value 
maximum limit in column ( 7 ) 
value limit 
for import 
of a single 
ftom in liou 
of value in 
gol. (6 ) 
ir conditions 
lo col. (8 ) 
aro 
utleiled 
(Jy lakbs 


( lo lakh 

Rs.) 


Rs.) 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


6 


7 


8 


As 
20 % 25 % eperdidis 3 


25 % 


1 . 50 


lterns in 
Appendix 3 


250 


1. Manufacturer - More tban 20 % 

porter including 
Manufacturer Ex 
port House and 
Manufacturer Trade 
Ho Hot. 


*** 


( 1) Export of select products is 

at least 25 % of the gross 
value of his output of 
select products in any of 
the two previous financial 

years : and . 
( 2 ) Minimun value of export 

in (1) above is not less than 
R . . 10 lakbs. 

do 


More than 20 % 


20 % 


liems in Appendix 
$ _ Part A 


1.00 


2.00 


20 % or less 


30 % 


2 . 50 


Items in 
Appendix 3 


-do 


1.50 
1.00 


20 % or less 


25 % 


2 . 00 


-do 


Items in 
Appendix - 
Part A . 


More than 20 % 


25 % 


Items in 
Appendix 3 


1. 50 


4 . 00 


(1) Export of select products in 

any of the two previous 
inancial years is 50 % or 
moro of his gross value of 
output ol select products, 
4d 


( 2 ) Minimum value of export 

io (1 ) above is not loss uan 
Rs. 15 lakhs , 


More than 20 % 


20 % 


1 . 00 


3 . 00 


- do 


Itoms 10 
Appendix 3 — 
Part A . 


1, 00 
1.50 


3.00 
5. 00 


do 
do 


20 % or less 


1 . 50 


deponimir 3. 


50 % 


9 . 00 


Itoms in 
Appondix 3 . 


20 % or lou 


50 % 


1 . 00 


4 . 00 


Itom . In 
Appendix - 
Partja . 


20 % or less 


20 % each 


9 . Marobant Export 
House or Merchant 
Trading Houro . 


Itoms lo (1) 
Appendiz 3 and 
(tl) Appondis 

Part A . 


2 . 00 
osch . 


* This facllity is admissible subiect 

to Conditions givon in sub 
para ( 3) below . 


. 


- - -- - - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( TI - 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


65 


( 3 ) The flexibility in the utilisation of REP 
licences allowed to manufacturer - cxporters in sub 
para (1 ) above is extended to the merchant export/ 
trading houses subject to the following conditions : 


the Order issued thereunder. A copy of 
the quarterly returns referred to here shall 
also be submitted by the export / trading 
house to the concerned sponsoring authority 
of the supporting manufacturer to whom 
the imported materials under this facility 
have been supplied . 


( i) The items alowed for inport are only those 

which are actually required as raw materials, 
components , spares and packing materials 
by the supporting manufacturer of these 
export / trading houses. These shall also be 
subject to the conditions laid down in sub 
para ( 1 ) above. 


( 4 ) In the case of sub - para ( 2 ) above where the 
items in Appendix 3 or Appendix 5 — Part A proposed 
to be imported are already figuring in column 4 or 
column 5 ( excluding items for which additional reple 
11shment for specific items are granted ) in 
Appendix 17 of this Policy against the relevant export 
product, the manufacturer -exporter will be eligible to 
import the items concerned either to the extent 
specifically permitted in Col. 4 or Col. 5 or general 
conditions, if any , laid down in Appendix 17 or to 
the extent permitted under sub -para (2) above, which 
ever is more favourable to him . 


( ii ) The matcrials imported under these pro 

visions shall be disposed of only to the 
supporting manufacturers subject to Actual 
User conditions. A list of such supporting 
manufacturers whose . products bave been 
exported by the export / ading houses will 
be furnishcu in advance to the licensing 
authority concerned along with ( a ) consent 
letters in writing in original from these 
supporting manufacturers and (b ) a photo 
stat copy of the valid Registration Certificate / 
Industrial licence held by such supporting 
manufacturers. Th: list once furnished 
shall not be allowed to be changed 
in the course of the licensing period . The 
list so furnished by the export /trading 
houses shall form part of the REP licence 
endorsed under these provisions and shall 
be subject to the condition that the materials 
imported shall be disposed of to the Actual 
Users named in that list. In the case of 
export houses, the list shall not include more 
than 50 such supporting manufacturers. 
This restriction shall not, however, apply to 
trading houses . 


(5 ) The facility available in sub -para ( 1 ) above 
will also be available to manufacturers who are not 
registered exporters but whose select export products 
are exported by other manufacturer- exporters or 
merchant exporters. While submitting the application 
for issue of REP licence , the applicant exporter con 
cerned will furnish a declaration giving the name and 
address of the manufacturer whose select products 
were exported stating tha : the REP licence may be 
issued in the name of the manufacturer with suitable 
endorsement under para 204 . On such a declaration , 
the REP licence will be issued in the name of the 
manufacturer concerned with endorsement of the 
facility under this para in the same manner as laid 
down in sub - para ( 7 ) below . This provision is , 
however, not availablo (i) for issue of licences to 
other manufacturers of the same or similar products 
or ( ii ) manufacturers of packing materials of the select 
products concerned or ( iii ) to export /trading houses. 


( iii ) Each export house and trading house 

availing of the facility under this para shall 
furnish separate quarterly returns to tho 
port licensing authority concerned giving 
the description and value of the items 
imported by them and disposed of to Actual 
Users with their complete addresses and 
Industrial Registration Nos., etc. Each such 
quarterly report should reach the licensing 
authority concerned within a month from 
the expiry of the quarterly period , failing 
which the facility provided under this para 
shall be withdrawn for the rest of the 
licensing period . The export /trading house 
will also be liable to actions under the 
Import & Export ( Control) Act 1947 , and 


(6 ) If an exporter claiming facility under this para 
requires a part value of the licence separately issued 
for importing column 4 or 5 items provided in 
Appendix 17 against the Si, Nos , in question , the 
port licensing authority concerned will consider such 
requests. However , the different restrictions relating 
to percentage or import of items specified in para 204 
will be available only for the face value of the remain 
ing part of the licence for which an endorsement under 
para 204 is granted . 


( 7 ) For availing of the facilities under this para , 
an endorsement on the REP licence is required from 
the licensing authority concerned . The licensing 


66 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


( PART I - SEC . 1] 


of their 


Special Facilities for Units exporting 100 % 
production 


authorities will work out separately the c.i. f, valucs 
of import of items permissible under sub - para ( 2 ) of 
this para and specify such value limitations while 
making these endorsements . The following endorse 
ment will be made by the licensing authority : 


“ This licence is also valid for import of items 

permissible under para 204 ( 1) of the Import 
& Export Policy 1985 - 88 and shall be sub 
ject to Actual User conditions as laid down 
in Schedule V to Imports (Control) Order 
1955 . Items in Appendix 3 or Appendix 5 
Part A can be imported for the specificd 
values given below subject to (i) the provi 
sions of para 204 (4 ) of the Policy in force 
on thc date of endorsement and ( ii ) the 
relevant items continuing to be under these 
Appendices on the date of actual import. 


· 205 (1). Manufacturer-exporters who have been in 
production during the last 3 years and have cxported 
100 % of their production of select products during the 
preceding one year but are not approved as such under 
che scheme of 100 % export oriented units , may be 
allowed to import any item appearing in Appendix 3 
and Appendix 5 Part A of this policy , within the 
overall value of valid REP licences acquired by trans 
fer in accordance with the import policy in force . 
Such import shall be subject to the following condi 
tions : - - 


(i) 


The licensing authority will allow endorse 
ment upto a value not cxceeding 100 % of 
the value of REP licences obtained by the 
concerned unit during the precexling year 
against exports of such select products manu 
factured by it , and which qualify for import 
replenishment at a rate not more than 50 % , 


Sub-para 2(i)* for a value of Rs. . ..(Rs.. .. .) 


but the value 
of a single 
item not to 
cxcood RS. . . . 
(Rs. . . .) 


( ii ) Requests for endorsement under this pro 

vision will be entertained by the regional 
licensing authorities concerned , subject to 
the prescribed conditions. 


( iii) 


Sub-para 2( li) for a value of Rs .. ..(Rs. .. .) 
Sub -para 2lün) for a value of Rs. . . .(Rs .. . .) 
Sub-para 2 (iv ) for a value of Rs. .. .(Rs. .. .) 
Sub-para 2(v) for a value of Rs....(Rs....) 
Sub-para 2(vl) for a value of Rs .... (Rs.. ..) 
Sub-para 2(vii) for a value of Rs .. . .(Rs. . ..) 
Sub -para 2( viii) for a valuo of Rs .. .. (Rs.. ..) 
Sub -para 2(1x ) for a value of Rs.. ..(Rs,. ..) 


The request for endorsement should be 
accompanied by a photostat copy of the 
Export Performance Certificate issued by 
Export Commissioner under para 221 of 
this policy , showing that the unit concerned 
exported 100 % of its production of select 
products during the preceding year . 


( iv ) 


The request for endorsement should bu 
accompanied by a list of items to be import 
cd . The items should be those as are related 
to the select product (s ) exported by the 
concerned unit or related to the select pro 
ducts proposed to be manufactured (within 
his licence / registration ) and exported , and 
which appear in Appendix 3 or Appendix 5 
Part A of this policy . 


( 8 ) Manufacturer-exporters seeking the facility 
provided in this para will be required to produce 
Export Performance Certificates issued hy the Export 
Commissioner in the office of the Chief Controller of 
Imports & Exports , New Delhi, as per para 221 below 
As an cvidence of having achieved tho required level 
of export performance . This certificate will , however, 
be necessary only in case the manufacturer seeks co 
dorsement for the higher value limit , if any, in col. 7 
of sub - para ( 2 ) of this para . 

(9 ) The facilities under this para will be available 
in respect of REP licences issued after 1 -4 - 1985 
irrespective of the export period to which they belong . 
The endorsement made under para 204 ( 1) of this 
Policy on REP licences issued after 1 - 4 - 1985 against 
exports effected prior to 1 - 4 - 1985 will also be subject 
to the conditions laid down in this Policy . 
(" Indicate the relevant sub - paras only ) 


( v ) 


The REP licence sought to be endorsed 
should have unutilised balance of at least 
3 months in its period of validity as on the 
date on which request for endorsement is 
received by the concerned licensing autho 
rity . 


( vi) The licence endorsed shall be marked " Non 

transferable ." 


[HTI - 


1] 


भारत का राजपा : मसाधारण 


67 


(vii) The list of select cxport products eligible for 

the facility under this provision is given in 

Appendix 12 of this Policy . 
( viii ) Import of the following items shall not be 

allowed under this provision : 
( a ) Raw silk , silk fabrics / thread / yarn / 

waste /noils , 
(b ) Components /modules of electronic 

watches , clocks and time- pieces men 
tioned in Appendix 5 , Part A . 


against the licence. In case the material sought to be 
released is against an Imprest licence issued to the 
applicant, the licence holder shall execute the requisite 
bond / legal agreement for fulfilling the export obliga 
tion with the licensing authority concerned before 
approaching the agency concerned . The licensing au 
thority will suitably endorse the Icence relating to 
such execution of bond /legal agreement. 


( 2 ) The agency concerned who receive . such re 
quests may approach the licensing authority concerned 
for debiting the licences involved . No supply shall 
be effected by the agency concerned till both the 
copies of the licences involved have been suitably 
endorsed . 


( c ) Instruments. 
( d ) Items mentioned in Appendix 2 

Appendix 5 Part B . 


and 


( ix ) A condition shall also be imposed on the 

licence that it shall be subject to Actual 
Uscr condition and the entire production of 
select products of the unit shall be exported . 


(3 ) Application for issue of bulk import licences to 
the agencies concerned against foreign exchange re 
leased to them by the Department of Economic Affairs, 
New Delhi, may be preferred to the licensing authority 
concerned . 


The manufacturer exporter availing of façi 
lity under this provision will execute a legal 
undertaking to the effect that his entire pro 
duction of select products will be exported 
within 18 months from the date of import of 
the first consignmcat. 


Re-export of Rough Diamoods 

207 (1 ). In order to increase the unit value of export 
of cut and polished diamonds by use of appropriate 
rough materials , the re -export of imported diamonds 
(uocut and unpolished ) other than those supplied by 
the agencies referred to in Para 206 of this policy 
may be allowed subject to the following conditions : 


( xi) The licence holder shall furnish to the licens 

ing authority concerned reports of imports 
and exports on a quarterly basis , within one 
month of the expiry of the concerned quar 
terly period , giving c .i.f. value, quantity and 
description of each item imported , and f.o .b . 
valuo , quantity and description of each pro 
duct exported . 


( i) The re -export does not exceed ten per cent 

of the c .i.f. value of replenishment ( includ 
ing Imprest), licences issued for uncut / un 
polished diamonds, and 


(2 ) Manufacturer- esporters referred to in sub- para 
( 1) above , will also be eligible to import Capital 
Goods (whether new or secondhand ) under Open 
General Licence given in Appendix 23 of this Book , 
Bubject to the conditions laid down therein , 


(i ) Re-export made in accordance with these 

provisions will be eligible for import re 
plenishment at the rate of 100 per cent of 
the c .i.f. valuo minus foreign exchange cost 
of such re -export of uncut / unpolished dia 
monds including commission , etc . i.e . only 
net receipt of foreign exchange after meeting 
all expenses of such re - export. 


(2 ) Applications for replenishment licences against 
export of such rough diamonds may be preferred to 
the licensing authority concerned along with :- - 


Bulk Licences for Rough Diamonds 

206 ( 1 ), Bulk Import licences may be issued for im 
port of unset and uncut Diamonds to (i) Hindustan 
Diamond Co . Ltd ., Bombay , (ii ) MMTC , New Delhi, 
or (iii ) any other agency duly approved by the Gover 
ment for this purpose against foreign exchange released 
to them for such imports , for sale to holders of valid 
import licences . REP ( including Imprest) licence hol 
ders who wish to receive supplies from these agencies 
may approach them along with their licences and letters 
indicating their consent to purchase the material 


(a ) Customs attested copies of shipping bills 

showing actual exports of roughs during a 
financial year ; 


) Photocopies of REP (including Imprest) 

liccoces, received by the applicants for 
import of uncut / un -polished Jiamonds for 
the financial year in (a ) above ; and 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(Part I - Sec . 1] 


(c ) Full particulars relating to expenses for such 

re -exports , including commission pald , if 
any. 


Loss of Consignments of Gem & Jewellery items 


208 . Consignments of Gem & Jewellery items ex 
ported out of the country and lost in transit after 
export where foreign exchange against exports has been 
realised or insurance claims settled in foreign exchange, 
will be eligible for replenishment benefits as per pro 
visions in Appendix 17 of the policy . 


this agency under the Scheme will quality for import 
replenishment licences to be issued to this agency , in 
accordance with the Import Policy for Registered 
Exporters . The agency can make a consolidated 
application , on quarterly , basis, for obtaining REP 
licences against items sold by them or through them 
under this scheme during that quarter. The REP 
licence will , however, indicate the items and their 
value separately in respect of each product sold , as 
adinissible in Appendix 17. The documents in support 
should include a bank certificate showing remittance 
received in free foreign exchange from abroad and the 
relevant sale voucher giving clear description of the 
article , duly attested by the agency . 


Sales at duty - free shops in India 


Sales to Foreign Tourists 

209 ( 1). Sales to foreign tourists in respect of the 
following goods will qualify for import replenishment 
under the import policy for Registered Exporters : 

( a ) Gem and Jewellery ; 
( b ) Handicrafts ; 
( c ) Leather goods, namely, footwear, band bags 

belts, purses , etc.; 
( d ) Carpets , Rugs, druggels , durries aod 

namdhas ; 
(c ) Cotton Sarees , Cotton dress materials, 

Cotton table linen , bed spreads , bed covers , 
cotton stoles, scarves , shawls and Cotton 

furnishing materials ; 
( f ) Ready -made garments, 
(g ) Silk fabrics and made-up articles , including 

furnishing material; 
(h ) Consumer electronic items 
(i) Disc records; 
(j) Books /stationery ; and 
(k ) Stainless steel utensils /cutlery. 


211 ( 1). Sales of goods manufactured in India , 
namely , cigarettes, liquors , electronic calculators, con 
sumer electronic goods, watches , handicrafts and 
jewellery at duty - free shops against payment in free 
foreign exchange will qualify for import replenishment 
licences in accordance with the import policy for 
Registered Exporters. 

(2 ) Any goods of foreign make may also be sold 
at duty -free shops in India against payment in free 
foreign exchange. Such sales will not be entitled to 
any REP benefits . 


Project Exports 


212 . The following categories of contracts will be 
treated as Projects Exports : 

(i) Turnkey projects , namely , those which 

involve the rendering of services like design , 
civil construction , crection and commission 
ing of plant or supervision thereof, along 

with the supply of equipment, 
( ii ) Engineering services contracts, involving the 

supply of services alone , such as design , 
erection , commissioning or supervision of 
erection and commissioning, 


( 2 ) Sales cffccted to foreigaers against surrender of 
freç foreign exchange at “ Trade Fairs " ( exhibitions 
arranged for special visiting delegations held under the 
aegis of T. F . A .I. or T . D . A , or Organisations like 
A .I.H . B ., H .H . E .C ., etc.) will be treated on par with 
sales to foreign tourists for the purpose of grant of 
REP benefits . 


Gift Scheme 


( lii ) Consultancy services contracts , which may 

include the preparation of feasibility studies, 
project reports, preparation of designs and 
advice to the project authority on specifica 
tions for plant and equipment, preparation 
of tender documents, evaluation of tenders 
and purchase of plant and equipment, 


210 . Under this Scheme, persons living abroad can 
buy goods manufactured in India against payment in 
free foreign exchange for the purpose of presentation 
as gifts to their friends and relations in India . The 
Central Cottage Industries Emporium has been 
designated as an agency to handle such mail order 
business from abroad . The goods sold by or through 


( iv ) Civil construction contracts , with or without 

preparation of designs or drawings for the 
civil work to be undertaken . 


69 


Details in this wors of Engine 


Projects" 


[# 1711 ] 

भारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 
213 ( 1). The categories mentioned above are not the country by the Customs authorities without .pro 
to be treated as mutually exclusive and a project duction of an import licence or a Customs Clearance 
contract could include supply of services or equip permit. The project contractors shall give a declaration 
ment, coming under more than one of the categories. to the customs authority concerned that these 

equipmens, machinery and related spares, tools and 
( 2 ) Turnkey projects may involve the extension accessories imported /reimported were used for 
of deferred payment terms to the buyer abroad , in execution of the project (name of the project to be 
the sense , that foreign exchange remittance , according mentioned ) and were either taken from India or 
to the contract, will not be completed within the purchased abroad for which necessary permission of 
time limit , after shipment, stipulated in the Foreigo the Reserve Bank of India or EXIM Bank of India ) 
Exchange Regulations. For expeditious clearance of IDBI or the Working Group of the EXIM Bank / 
proposals for Turnkey projects, as also supply of IDBI was obtained . Such contractors will also be al 
equipment, on defçrred payment terms, a Working lowed to re -import, without production of an import 
Group of financial institutions has been set up which licence or a Customs clearance permit , office equip 
functions in the Industrial Development Bank of ments which they had used during the course of exe 
India . The Banks of the intending exporters can cution of their contracts aborad for at least one year 
themselves clear proposals under powers delegated on production of satisfactory evidence to this effect 
to them . Details in this regard will be found in the to the Customs authorities. 
" Broad Guidelines to exporters of Engineering Goods 
on Deferred payment Basis and Turnkey Projects " 214 . Import replenishment licence will be issued in 
published by the Industrial Development Bank of accordance with para 215 hereunder for the value of 
India /Reserve Bank of India / EXIM Bank . 

the items exported from India , whether or not these 

are supplemented by third country imports, for exe 
( 3 ) Similar Guidelines in respect of construction cuting a project in accordance with para 212 and 
projects, the proposals relating to which are also 213 above , 
clcared by the Working Group of financial institutions, 
have been issued by the Reserve Bank of India , 

215 . The Registered Exporter in such cases will 

have the option to claim import replenishment either 
( 4 ) Turnkey Project exporters will have to indicate at the rate applicable to the totality of exports covered 
the extent of import of equipment or machinery and by the project or at the rates applicable to individual 
related spares, tools and accessories envisaged by parts of such exports . This option will be available 
them , from a third country , into the project country only in cases where the project contract sets down the 
for supply to the buyer as part of the project, when break -up of plant prices itemwise. When there is 
they forward their proposals for clearance according no such break - up in the contract, the cxporter will be 
to the Broad Guidelines. Once the Bank or the eligible to claim import replenishment only at the rate 
Working Group , as the case may be , approves the 

applicable to the plant as a whole . ( These provisions 
proposals, necessary permission for remittance of 

apply to exports made on or after 12th January , 
foreign exchange out of India will also be given by 1977) . 
the Reserve Bank of India after completion of required 
formalities. No import licence will be required to be 

Exports through third party 
obtained for such third country imports into the 216 . Io respect of “ third parly " exports, i.e, where 
project country . 

all or any of the export documents contain the names 
(5 ) The project contractors requiring construction 

of two parties, the import replenishment licence as 

admissible under the import policy for Registered 
equipment, machinery and related spares , tools and 

Exporters may be claimed by any of these two parties 
accessories for enabling them to execute the projects 
undertaken may buy such equipments, machinery and 

provided (i) the claimant is a Registered Exporter 

And is otherwise eligible under the policy, ( ii ) the 
related spares, tools and accessories in the project 

claimant produces a certificate of " disolaimer" from 
country or from third countries. The proposed 
purchase of construction equipment, machinçry and 

the other party in his favour, and ( iii ) the party 
rclated spares, tools and accessories will have to be 

granting the disclaimer, is not itself debarred from 
indicated to the Bank of the Working Group and 

receiving licences etc . under the Imports (Control) 
clearance obtained as part of the proposals for which 

Order, 1955 . 
clearance is sought. After completion of the project, Note : It is clarified that the provisions of this para 
buch equipments , machinery and related spares, tools 

will not apply to import licences having 
and accessories will be allowed to be imported into 

cxport obligation such as Advaoce licenceg , 


70 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART -- Sec . 1] 


- 


- 


Surrender of valld REP licence 


Special Imprest licences, Imprest licences, 
· Import-Export Pass Books , and export ob 
ligations fixed on approved 100 % export 
oriented units . 


Assistance for Products Development through Trade 

Development Authority 


217 ( 1). Import of (a ) samples, drawings, technical 
literature and specifications and initial small lots 
of raw materials, components, consumables, tooling 
and test equipment for product development may be 
allowed on the recommendation of Trade Development 
Authority to its clientele . Import applications will 
be forwarded by Trade Development Authority , Bank 
of Baroda Building, Parliament Street, New Delhi , 
to tho regional licensing authorities concerned with 
their recommendations. Foreign exchange to cover 
the import will also be released by TDA out of the 
bulk allocation placed at its disposal by Government 
for the purpose . 


219 ( 1). Where a Registered Exporter obtains REP 
licence for import of any items appearing in 
Appendices 2 Part- B or 3 of import policy , against 
his own exports, in accordance with the provisions 
made in Appendix 17 of this Book , it will be open to 
him to suitcnder the licence , within its initial validity 
period , to the licensing autbority concerned , instead 
of importing the items, in question , against that 
licence. The unutilised cif value of such surrendered 
licence will be treated as the fob value of exports of 
select products of the concerned exporter for the 
purpose of computing his export performance to 
enable him to get the Export Performanco Certificate 
referred to separately in this chapter and /or Export 
House Certificate / Trading House Certificate in 
accordance with the provisions made in . Chapter XXI 
of this Book . In such cases, only that uputilised 
part of the surrendered licence will be taken into 
account, which could have been utilised for tho 
import of items appearing in Appendices 2 Part - B or 
3 of import policy , in accordance with the terms and 
conditions applicable to the licence concerned . Value 
of REP licences surrendered will be accepted as f.o .b . 
value of exports for the financial year during which 
these have been surrendered . 


( 2 ) TDA may recommend to the licensing autho 
rities concerned the applications of its clientele for the 
grant of advance /imprest licences for import of raw 
materials and components under the relevant pro 
visions made in this policy . 


( 3 ) TDA may recommend the applications of its 
clientela for import of Capital Goods against REP 
licences under the relevant provisions of this policy . 


( 4 ) The details of Package of Services rendered 
by Trade Development Authority are given in Ap 
pendix XIV - M of the Hand Book for Import - Export. 
Procedure 1985 -88. 


( 2 ) On surrender of such REP licence, the 
licensing Tuthority will issue a certificate to the 
Registered Exporter indicating the unutilised cif 
value in the licence which could be utilised for import 
of items in Appendicos 2 Part- B or 3 of import policy . 
The Registered Exporter will make use of this 
certificate for the purpose of obtaining Export 
Performanco Certificate and / or Export House 
Certificate / Trading House Certificate in accordance 
with tho provisions made in the policy , 


Associate exporters of STC /MMTC 

218 . An exporter securing export order through a 
public sector agency namely, STC or MMTC , and 
who exports the goods in execution of that order as 
associate of such agency can obtain imported materials 
off the shelf from them as replenishment admissible 
under the import - policy for Registered Exporters, in 
the following manner : 
(a ) By handing over to the STC /MMTC the 

goods intended for export in execution of 

the export order in question ; and 
(b ) By handing over to the STC /MMTC the 

export documents in respect of the exports 
made in execution of the export order in 
question and surrendering his right to apply 
for import replenishment licence against the 
same exports . 


Exports of new products or to new markets 

220 ( 1). Registered Exporters exporting a new pro 
duct or cxporting products to a new markct, will be 
eligible for REP licence against such exports under 
the import policy for Registered Exporters, in occor 
dance with the provisions made in Appendix 17 , at the 
rate of import replenishment higher by 10 % of the 
normal rate i.c. 11 per cent instead of the normal 10 
per cent, and so on . This provision will be applicable 
only in respect of the products and the markets which 
may be specified for the purpose from time to time. 
New markets and / or new products specified in this 
regard are included in Appendix 24 to this book . 


( 2 ) The above facility in jotended to overcome the 
handicap which such cxporters are likely to face , con 


[ATT I - 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : मसाधारण 


71 


- 


- 


- 


sequent upon a comparatively lower fob value which 
they may be able to realise as cost of first catry . 


licences and will not be subject to " Actual User" 
condition . Details of the scheme are given in 
Appendix 21 . 


Exports inadmissible for REP 


224 ( 1). No REP benefits are admissible in the caso 
of imported goods which are re -exported in the samo 
state without undergoing any processing or manufac 
turing operation in Iudia . . 


( 2 ) No REP benefits will be admissible under the 
Import Policy for Registered Exporters in the case of 
export of spares as free replacement during warrantee / 
performance guarantee period . Also , value of such 
spares is not to be set-off against the REP entitlements 
of the exporters. 


Ullllsation of REP Icences 


Assistance to export orlented units 

221( 1). Several provisions have been made in this 
policy to assist export production . Licensing autbori 
ties will render necessary assistance to exporting units 
to enablc them to obtain their imported inputs in time 
for timely cxecution of export orders. 

(2 ) Manufacturer-exporters whose exports of select 
products in any of the two previous financial years are 
at least 25 per cent of their production , subject to a 
minimum of Rs. 5 lakhs in value (f.o .b .), or whose 
exports of select products in any of the two previous 
financial years is at least Rs. 1 crore in value (f.o.b .), 
will receive special consideration in the matter of their 
import requirements , particularly for upgrading tech 
nology and for product development. Procedural for- • 
malities will also be cut down in their case as far as 
possible . 

(3 ) For the purpose of eligibility to the various 
benefits provided in the policy for export-oriented 
units (i.e, those baving : minimum export perfor 
mance laid down ), guch units should apply imme 
diately to the Export Commissioner in the Office of the 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , New Delhi, 
for obtaining Export Performance Certificate. For the 
purpose of calculation of export performance for the 
issue of Export Performance Certificate , Gross value 
of output including all direct and indirect costs of 
production , depreciation , interest, duties and taxes 
leviable, profits and over-heads, etc . will be taken 
into consideration . They will be able to avail of the 
benefits ouly on production of such Export Perfor 
mance Certificate to the licensing authorities concern 
ed . Applications to the Export Commissiouer should 
be sent in the form and manner as -given in Appen 
dix XIV -L of the Hand Book of Import- Export Proce 
dures 1985 -- 88 , on or before 31st October of the 
licensing year. 
Registration of Export Contracts 

222 . To order to provide stability for the growth 
of exports, a schemo is in operation for the registration 
of export contracts. The details are given in Appen 
dir 20 . 


225 . Thc REP licence wil be issued in the namo 
of the Registered Exporter only and will not be subject 
to Actual User conditions, Except for cases covered 
by paras 195 ( 2 ), 204 , 263 (2 ) and 265 ( 1 ), a licence 
holder may transfer the licence in full or part in 
favour of any other person . The licence holder or such 
transferee may import the goods permitted therein but 
the facility of paragraphs 195 ( 2 ), 196 and 202 shall 
not be available to any transferee, unless the trans 
feree is himself a registered exporter and can satisfy 
the custom authorities at the time of clearance of the 
goods , of his bona fides. 


226 . The transfer of the licence will not require any 
endorsement or permission from the licensing autho 
rity i.e., it will be governed by the ordinary law . 
Accordingly , clearance of the goods covered by a 
REP licence issued under this policy , will be allowed 
by the customs authorites on producton by the 
transferee of only the document of transfer of the 
licence concerned in his name. Whenever an REP 
licence is transferred , the transferor should give a 
formal letter to the transferee , giving full particulars 
regarding number, date and value of the licence trans 
ferred and the name and address of the transferee , 
and complete description of the import items for 
which the licence is transferred . A copy of the trans 
fer letter should be endorsed to the licensing autho 
rity who issued the REP licence , for record . This 
procedure will also apply to subsequent transfers of 
the same licence . 


Duty -free Imports against REP Licencoe 

223 . There is a scheme to provide duty -free 
imports of raw materials against REP licences issued 
on the exports of specified products. The scheme is 
applicable to all Registered Exporters , exporting the 
products specified . REP licences issued under the 
scheme will he freely transferable like other REP 


Other Schemes 

227 ( i) . Import - Export Pass Book Scheme ( ii ) Duty 
Exemption Scheme (li ) Imprest Licensing Scheme 


72 


_V 


UT 


LV 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

[PART I - SEC . 1 ] 
(iv ) Gold Jewellery Export Promotion Schemes standing the permission that might have been granted 
( v ) 100 % Export Oriented Units Scheme and (vi) In to the holder of a pass book regarding the import of 
port Policy for Registered Exporters in Free Trade any item , in the event of its inclusion in Appendix 2 
Zones covered by the Registered Exporters Policy are Part A , such permission shall cease to operate and 
given as separate Appendices in this Book . 

its further import from the date of such change of 
policy shall be disallowed . 


CHAPTER XV 


IMPORT- EXPORT PASS BOOK SCHEME FOR 
REGISTERED MANUFACTURER -EXPORTERS 


Objective : 

228 . A new scheme, known as the Import- Export 
Pass Book scheme, is being introduced for manufac 
turer-exporters to provide duty -free access to imported 
inputs for export production . This scheme is designed 
to simplify systems for export production by eliminating 
procedural delays. This scheme which is broader in 
its coverage than the Advance licensing scheme, will 
belp the regular registered manufacturer-exporters to 
obtain their requirements of imported raw materials 
etc. duty free to suit their production / export time 
schedule . The need to apply repeatedly for Advance / 
Imprest and REP licences will be eliminated with 
the issue of this pass book — which will serve as a 
single all purpose duty free import licence . 


231 . Each pass book holder would be required to 
give a minimum value addition of 33 % on the c.i.f. 
value of imports or such higher value that might be 
prescribed keeping in view the import content in the 
export product. Subject to the minimum value addi 
tion , the import entitlement will be worked out on 
the basis of the import content in the export product. 
For this purpose , first, for the export product con 
cerned the base of expoprts will be worked out by taking 
the annual average exports during the preceding 3 
years plus 25 % thereof or the best year s exports of . 
that product within preceding three years plus 10 % 
thereof, whichever is more. On this base, applying 
the import entitlement percentage the annual import 
entitlement will be worked out. Maximum entitle 
ment which may be allowed for import shall be 15 
times of this annual import entitlement. 


232 . The exporters will be free to import within 
the overall value one or all items indicated in the 
pass book subject to the respective face value restric 
tion , if any, indicated against individual items. 


233 . All imports against the pass book shall be 
duty free . The holders of the pass book shall be 
allowed the facility of executing a legal undertakiog 
and bond accompanied by a bank guarantee may not 
be insisted upon . 


Eligibility : 

229 . This scheme will be applicable only to register 
cd manufacturer exporters who have been in produc 
tion and regularly exporting for a minimum period of 
3 years and who are otherwise eligible for issuc of 
import licences. Import- Export pass book issued 
under this scheme shall be treated as a licence under 
the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 and the 
Orders issued thereunder. The validity of such a 
pass book for the purpose of import sball be 18 months 
and for the purpose of exports, 27 months from the 
date of issue . 


234 . All import and export transactions under 
the pass book schemo will be entered in the pass 
book by the customs authorities . 


Application : 


Entitlement of Imports : 

230 . A separate pass book for each export product 
shall be issued to the applicant. This pass book will 
indicate the value and items allowed for import as 
well as the export obligation thereon . Import of oply 
those items which are actually required in the manu 
facture and export of products specified in the 
Import-Export Pass Book shall be allowed , Items 
Talling under Appendix 2 Part A of the Import 
Export Policy however, shall not be allowed Notwith 


235 . An eligible registered exporter would be re 
quired to apply to the concerned licensing office which 
is headed by an officer not below the rank of a 
Dy. CCI& E within whose jurisdiction, the registered / 
head office of the company / firm is located. In case 
the office of the eligible importer falls within the juris 
diction of a licensing office which is headed by an 
officer below tho rank of a Dy. CCT& E , the applica 
tion shall be directly made to the concerned zonal Jt. 
CCI & E . The Import- Export pass book may be issucd 
on the payment of an application fee which will be 
worked out on the basis of the maximum value of im 
porto allowed against the pass book to the registered 
exporters as per para 231 above 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


-- - - - 


[ TTI - 1] भारत का राजपन्न . अमाधारण 

73 
S S - - - = = = = - -- - - - - 
Export Obligation i 

(Cuatrol) Act, 1947 and the Orders issued thereunder . 

A similar action may also be taken in the event of 
236 . Each pass book will bear a suitable export 

failure on the part of the pass book holder to remaia 
obligation which shall be worked out in the inverse 

present at the time of periodical reviews with the re 
ratio to the imports untitlement, Shipping bilis in ful 

quired information as asked for by the designated 
filment of the export ovligation will bear the pass book 

officer , and for non -fulfilment of export obligation 
number against which such exports are made, Exports 

due . 
made against the pass book in fulfilment of the export 
obligation mentioned therein will not be entitled for 

240 . With a view to maintaining the continuity of 
REP licences, nor for duty drawback . The holder of 

production , eligible exporters shall be freo to apply 
the pass book shall also not be entitled for issue of 

for a fresh pass book at the end of 18 months which 
Advance Licences / Imprest Licences for that export 

may be issued if export obligation , due upto that time 
product admissible against exports under the normal 

has been fulfilled . 
provisions of the Policy . Similarly, no REP licences 
against the excess entitlement that might accrue on 

Dato of operation : 
account of exchange , price fluctuation , shall be ad 
missible . Cash compensatory support benefits, if 241. The above provisions are in the nature of 
otherwise admissible , shall be admissible , on the lines broad parameters of the scheme. Sinco all the rele 
of the advance licensing scheme. In other cases the vant details of the scheme are still to be worked out 
above schemes would continue to be available . 

as well as the forms and the pass books required for 

operation of the scheme are to be printed , the Pass 
237 . The monitoring of the export obligation shall 

Book Scheme shall be given effect from October 1 , 
be done on 6 monthly basis by the respective licensing 

1985 as per provisions and details to be notified in 
offices which have issued the pass book . In each 

due course before that date . 
such licensing office, designated officers will per 
sonally review the import and export position as well 
as the fulfilment of expost obligations that have 
become due at the end of 6 months period , 


238 . Normally a period of 9 months shall be allow 
ed to complete manufacturing process and effect 
exports. Therefore , the export obligation period on the 
imports made in the first quarter shall expire at the 
cod of the fourth quarter, i.e. export obligation on the 
imports made in the quarter October to December 
will need to be fulfilled before the end of the quarter 
ending September of the following year. 


CHAPTER XVI 


DUTY EXEMPTION SCHEME 


242 . Duty Exemption Scheme also known ag Ad 
vance Licensing Scheme was initially introduced in the 
Import Policy for 1976 - 77 . The details of this Scheme, 
as amended , with the procedures for issue of different 
categories of Advance Licences thercunder , are given 
in Appendix 19 of this policy . 


239. The pass book shall be finally closed after full 
and final accounts of all imports and exports have been 
presented to the designated officer. At the end of 18 
months , the pass book shall cease to be valid fusion 
any further imports . Exports against that pags book 
can , however, be made till the expiry of the export 
obligation as per para 238 ahove but upto a maxi 
mum of 27 months. The holder of the pass book 
within a period of one month from tlic date of last 
import / export shipment ox 27 months from the date 
of issue of pass book , whichever is carlier, shall present 
all relevant documents along with the pass book to 
the designated officer. Any delault in this regard may 
result in suspension of further imports against this or 
any other pass book that malght have been imuel with 
out prejudice to any other action that may be taken 
in terms of logal ondertaking or finports and Exporty 
58 GI/ 85 --- 6 . 


CHAPTER XVII 


IMPREST LICENSING SCHEMB 


243 . l ho fatty and procedures relating to Imprest 
focoving Scie lave been given in Appendix 13 . 
of this Book 


74 


[Part I - SEC . 1] 


- - 


- 


- - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

- - 
CHAPTER XVIII 


- 


- 


CHAPIER XX 


EXPORT HOUSES AND TRADING HOUSES 


PART A 


EXPORT HOUSES 


247. The objective of the schome of registration of 
Export Houses and the grant of special facilities to 
them is to strengthen their negotiating capacity in 
foreign trade and to build up a more coduring 
relationship between them and their supporting 
manufacturers . 


GOLD JEWELLERY EXPORT PROMOTION 
SCHEMES 

244 ( 1 ) . The Scheme for cxport of gold jewellery 
against gold supplied by the forcign buyer, which was 
introduced vide Ministry of Commerce Public Notice 
No , 39- ITC ( PN ) / 80 dated 14th October 1980 will 
continue to be in force during 1985 – 88. The details 
are given in Annexure I to Appendir 22 

(2 ) The scheme for export of Gold Ornaments 
and Articles for sale at approved Exhibitions during 
1985 - 88 has been provided in Annexure II to 
Appendix 22 . 

( 3 ) The Scheme for Gold Jewellery Export Pro 
motion and Replenishment of gold to exporters of 
gold ornaments and articles ( other than coins ) during 
1985 -88 has been provided in Annexure III to 
Appendix 22 

( 4 ) The Scheme for selling up Special Export 
Oriented Complexes for manufacture of gold jewellery 
during 1985 -88 has been provided in Annexure IV 
to Appendix 22. 

( 5 ) The Schemc for manufacture of gold jewellery 
in Free Trade Zoncs during 1985 – 88 has been provid 
ed in Annexure V to Appendix 22 . 


Eligibility 

248 ( 1 ) . Appendix 16 gives the list of products for 
export which are treated as " Select Products" . All 
other products shall be treated as " Non -select 
Products " . The eligibility for the grant of Export 
House Certificates shall be determined on the basis of 
the exports actually made in the preceding three 
financial years which shall be treated the base 


period , 


( 2 ) Applications with be considered subject to the 
following conditions : - 


CHAPTER XIX 


( a ) The annual average f.0.b. value of exports in 

the prescribed base period of Select Pro 
ducts, should not be less than Rs. three 
crores or those of non -select Products, 
Rs, seven crores. 


100 % EXPORT ORIENTED UNITS SCHEME 
245 . A copy of the Ministry of Commerce Resolu 
tion dated 31st Decenaber, 1980 , as amended , regard 
ing 100 % Export Orinted Units Scheme appears in 
Appendix 23. For facilitating easy reference, the 
different provisions relating to the 100 % Export Ori 
ented Units have also been incorporated in Appendix 
23 of this Policy. 


( b ) The prescribed minimum set down above 

shall be only Rs. 75 lakhs and Rs. 3 crores 
respectively in the case of a Small Scale 
Unit holding permanent registration certifi 
cate issued before 1st April of the licensing 
year by the sponsoring authority concerned 
as given in Appendix V - A of the Hand Book . 
At least 50 % of the export should be diroct 
exports of its own manufacture , 


CHAPTER XX 
IMPORT POLICY FOR REGISTERED EX 

PORTERS IN FREE TRADE ZONES 


( c ) There will have to be exports in each one 

of the three years covering the prescribed 
base period ; the exports in each ooc of the 
three years will have to be at least 10 per 
cent of the experts in the preceding year. 
Subject to this, exports of only those pro 
ducts will quality for recognition as have 
bocn made cgularly by the & 1 picant at least 
during any of the two years of tho prescribed 
threc -year base period 


246 . Tlt pol.cy and procedure for inport of 
Capital Goods, raw inatcrials etc . by units lo Freo 
Trade Zones are given in Appendix 15 . 


1 - - 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र अमाधारण 


75 


- 


- - 


- 


( d ) Direct exports made in the name of llic 

applicant, as cvidenced by the following 
documents, will be counted : --- 


by small scale industries will be reckoned at 
twice the actual f.o .b . value of such exports. 


(i) Export orders /export contracts ( in his 

owo namc). 


(b ) In determining the eligibility of an applicant , 

cxports of new products and /or to new 
markets, as defined and laid down, made 
during the preceding financial year will be 
reckoned at twice the actual fob value of 
such exports. 


(ü ) Bank certificates (in his own name ) . 


(iii ) Invoices ( whether or not they indicate 

the name of the manufacturers of the 
goods exported ) in his own name. 


( i) " Deemed " cxports referred to in para 190 

will count on par with other exports . 


(iv ) Exports made as an associate of the 

State Trading Corporation or other 
similar public sector enterprise may also 
be counted if such exports are other 
wise acceptable provided 


( j) Foreign exchange earnings on account of 

royalties for books will be treated on par 
with exports of select products for eligibility 
purpose . 


(a ) 


(k ) The applicant is registered with E .1.E .O . 


all the REP benefits on the exports 
in question have been made avail 
able to the applicant, 


Note : ( 1 ) It may be clarified that only a Registered 

Exporter can apply for Export House 
certificate. 


(b ) the name of the applicant appears 

in any of the relevant documents , 
with or without the namo of the 
Public Sector Enterprise, and 


( c ) the Public Sector Enterprise 

certifies that the applicant has 
made a significant effon in cffocting 
the connected exporto 


( 2 ) For the purpose of granting eligibility 

certificate or their renewal, the minimum 
export performance shall be taken as the 
annual average of the threc years of the 
base period orihe exports in the 
immediately preceding year, provided the 
applicant tulfils the onditions laid down 
in para 248 ( 2 ) (c ) above : 


(e ) 


The value of the export of Select Products 
may be reckoned for making up any 
deficiency in the prescribed minimum cx 
ports of Non - select Products . 


will 


( 3 ) Re-exports falling under para 224 

not qualify for eligibility purpose . 


(f) 


( 4 ) For the purpose of granting eligibility 

certificates or their renewal and for 
calculating entitlement for Additional 
licences, the exports of fresh fruits / 
vegetables, cut flowers and decorative 
plants shall be treated on par with the 
export of select products manufactured 
by small scale units . 


Invisible earnings of foreign exchange by 
way of erection charges, consultancy / colla 
boration fees , ship repair, net foreign 
exchange oarned by way of commission 
received from foreign buyers towards ser 
vices rendered to them in execution of 
export orders placed by them in India , and 
the like will also count on par with Select 
Products for determining eligibility . The 
net carnings by way of commission will, 
however, be counted only to the extcnt of 
not more than 10 per cent of the minimum 
prescribed fob value of exports on the basis 
of which Export House Certificate can be 
claimed under the policy . 


249 . The following aspects will also be considered 
in determining the eligibility :-- 


ta ) structure , functioning and trade develop 

ment programmes of the applicant, 


(8 ) In determining the eligibility of an applicant, 

other than a small scale manufacturer, tbc 
value of the < IDOTA Ol he predicla roads 


(b ) his managerial capacity including technical, 

financial and services resources, testing faci 
lities and other quality control measures 
ndopted by him , cle , and 


76 


- - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- -- - 


- - 


- 


TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

[PART I — Sec . 1] 
= - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
( c ) involvement in the export of the products of 

have to be atlost 10 per cent of the exporta 
scall scale judustries as well as the assis 

in the preceding year. 
1960 by way of availability of imported 
mpits and the like provided to supporting 

( 2 ) Such consortium obtaining REP licences on 
manufacturers . 

the exports of products manufactured by its member 

units, will be eligible to the facility provided in para 
Note :- -- It is expected that Export Houses will 

204 , for the import of raw materials, components , 
dix ,gify their range of export products ; 

consumables, spares and packing materials required by 
however, diversification would not necessa 

its member units , subject to the conditions laid down 

therein . 
rily mean export of goods from more than 
one product group . 

( 3 ) For the purpose of granting the first Export 

House Certificate to the consortium , direct exports of 
Export Houses of Small Scale Industries 

products manufactured by its member units will alone 
250 ( 1 ). To encourage and assist the export efforts be taken into account, if otherwise acceptable . There 
of small scale unity on their own, such units holding after, for the purpose of renewal, the exports mado 
permanent registration certificate granted before 1st in the name of the consortium alone will be accept 
April of the licensing year by the sponsoring autho able and atleast 50 % of the direct exports should be 
rity concerned will be permitted to set up Consortia of its constitucats own manufactures . 
to organise the sales of their own products abroad. 
Similarly, a co -operative society of small scale units 

Applications for the grant of Export House Certi 
will also be permitted to do so . Such Consortium or 

ficates 
a co -operative society of small scale units will be 

251. Eligible applicants should submit their appli 
cligible for grant of an Export House Certificate on 

cations to the Chiel Controller of Imports & Exports , 
the following basis :-- 

New Delbi, on or before 31st May of the licensing 
( a ) the applicant is a corporate body or a part 

year in the prescribed form and manner as in Appen 

dix XXI- A of the Hand Book of Import-Export 
nership firm or a Cooperative Society having 

Procedures, 1985 - - 88 . 
a distinct legal entity and is registered as 

The statement of exports on 

which the application is based should be certified by 
an Exporter, 

a Chartered or Cost Accountant or Company Secre 
( b ) all the members of the applicant Consortium tary who is not a partner, a Director or an employee 

are small scale or coltage units. New of the applicant firm or its associates. The following 
members can also join the consortium docunents should also accompany the application : 
after the issue of Export House Certificate 

( 1 ) The relevant certiticate from the public 
with the pproval of Chief Controller of 

sector enterprise in respect of exports made 
Imports and Exports. However, there 

through them . 
shall be a minimum of two SSI units for a 
consortium . If the number of such units 

( 2 ) Detailed information about the applicant s 
at any liine jalls below this minimum limit , 

competency as required above . 
the holler of the certificate should immc 
diately inforn this fact to the CCI& E . In 252 . In the case of firms/ companies, having bran 
such a wase , the Export House Certificato ches , while the application for the grant of Export 
issued shall also automatically cease to be House Certificate may be made only by the Regis 
valid for operation 

tered / Head Office , it will be open to them to have the 

Export House Certificate issued either in the name of 
( c ) the minimum liroit prescribed for Select Pro 

the Registered /Head Office or in the name of any of 
ducts or non -select products for grant of the 

its branches. Other conditions subject to which an 
Certificate will be Rs. 75 lakhs or Rs. 3 

application for Export House Certificate can be enter 
crores respertively , ( The minimum cxports 

tained under this policy will remain unchanged . 
may be eitlis in the imicdiately preceding 
year or is the ancual arriage of the thrco 

Applications for renewal of Export Horse Certificates 
years of the base period ). There will havo to 
be expo . i8 in Cuch one of tize ihrec - 253. A registered oxporter holdlog an Export House 
covering the prescribed base perod ; the Certificate, the validity of which is due to expire in 
+"xports in each onc of the three years will the licensing year or on the last day of the preceding 


S2 


9 


- = 


- A - - - - 


- = 


= 


= = 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


ATTI- OT 1 ] 

भारत का राजपन्न : असाधारण 

- -- - -- - - - - - 
financial year , may apply for its renewal if the requiic 255 . (1) lliy renewal of an export House Certificato 
ments given below are fulfilled. The application in the types of cases referred tu in para 254 above 
should be sent to the CCI & E , New Delhi, oil or before shall be subject to the ioiining cuiditions : - 
the 31st May of the year 10 which renewal is sought. 

(i ) Renewal will be valid only till the end of 
(i) The applicant satisfies the conditions stipu 

the financial yuar in which it is granted ; 
lated in the preceding paras regarding grant 

(i ) Thc shortfall in thų uforesaid wunditions will 
of recognition as an Export House ; 

be made good over and above the minimum 
( ii ) The applicant shows a minimum annual 

level of performance prescribed during the 
average growth rate of at least 20 % in 

period for wbich renewal is granted ; 
the prescribed base period or in the ( ii) If the shortſal is only in one of the afore 
immediately preceding year, as compared 

said two conditions in para 254 above , a 
to the preceding 3 years of the pre-base 

minimum cut of 1 / 3rd shall be imposed 
period . This annual average growth iate 

on ( a ) the value of the Additional licence 
will be calculated on the net foreign exchange 

due and (b ) value of spares permissible for 
realisation in the prescribed base period or 

import vidu pura 265 (6 ) of this Policy . 
immediately preceding year, as compared 
to the immediately preceding three years in 

( iv ) If the shorifalls are thers in both of the 
the pre -base period . For this purpose , the 

conditions referred to in para 154 above, a 
net foreign exchange realisation would be 

minimum cut of 2 / 3rd ou (a ) the value of 
the total f.ob . value of adinissible exports 

the Additional licence due, and ( b ) value 
minus the c.i.f. values of all categories of 

of spare pulis permissibic iur import vide 
Imprest licences, Advance loroces, Spocial 

para 265( 0 ) of this Policy , will be inposcd . 
Imprest licences, REP licences and Import 
Export Pass Books, if any issued / eligible ( 2 ) Requests for renewal which are not covered 
during the relevant year , 

by paras 254 and 255 ubuve shall be rejected . 


( i ) The applicant seeks the renewal of export 

house certificate for the same category for 
which he was issued this certificate earlier, 
A switchovet to another category for 
renewal will do ! be peimitted . As such , 
an applicaai recogniscd as export houso 
earlier on exports of select products will 
not be eligible for renewal based on exports 
of non -select products or vice - versa . 


254 . Applications which du not fulfil the prescribed 
requirements are liable to be rejected . However, in 
respect of an applicant who has heen a recognised 
Export House continuously for six preceding years , 
the Export House Committee may consider the 
request for renewal, in the following types of cases , 
subject to the conditions prescribed in para 255 
below : 


256 . A registered builut who has lield a valid 
Export House Cuidificate for a period of 3 years or 
more and whose validity expirud Juring any of the 
precediuc ilircr fcancial voari bui the sport House 
Cortificare was not rettewed because ut non - fulfilment 
vſ requirements prescribed fui renewal in the relevant 
year, will not be eligible for being considered for 
graut of a freel Expurt House Codificate in the 
licensing year . However , he can also apply for 
renewal in the liceo ing jar and his request for 
renewal can be considercu if he (? ) fulfils the 
conditions for the grani of an Export House Cortificate 
prescribed in the plivy us the the date of application 
for renewal; and (b ) fulfils the conditions for the 
renewal of the Export House Certificate for the 
intervening period during which he did not have a 
valid Export House Certiricate as per conditions 
applicable during that period . In such a case , the 
renewal, il giunted , will be effective from the year 
in which it is granted . 


(i) The shortfall in the prescribed growth rato 

is not more than 25 % de, growth rato 
achioved is not less than 15 % ; 


( ü ) The shortfall in the minimum export 

performance prescribed for each year of 
the base period is not more than 25 % i.e . 
cxports are not less than 7 .5 % ci de 
exports of the preveding year, 


257. The minimum growth rate to be shown for 
renewal by a SŞI Export House or SSI Consortium 
Export House whose annual average exports of select 
or nutl-select products are not less than I s . 1.5 crores 
or Rs. 6 ctores respectively , or other Export Houses 
whose annual average exports of select or non -select 


78 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SEC . 1] 


(1 ) Import replenishment (REP ) licences trans 

ferred to them by others ; 


(iii) Import of items placed on Open General 

Licence in the manner set down here 
under ; 


(iv ) Additional licences as provided hereunder : 


products are not less than Rs. 7 crores or Rs. 14 
crores respectively will be 15 % instead of the normal 
20 % . If, however, there is a shortfall in the growth 
rate not exceeding 25 % of 15 % , requests for renewal 
of Export House Certificate may be considered subject 
to the conditions and cuts prescribed in para 255 
above . 

258 . The Chief Controller of Imports & Exports 
may also consider applications for renewal of Export 
House Certificates in cases where the applicants 
having achieved the necessary growth rate prescribed , 
has fallen short of the enhanced minimum export per 
formance limits laid down in paras 248 and 250 above . 
In doing so , the Export House will be given time for 
one year ( until the cad of the financial year in which 
such renewal is granted , to make up the short-fall in 
the minimum export performance limit prescribed . 


( v ) Imprest licence to the extent of 100 % of 

the value of REP licences earned against 
their own exports made during the previous 
year ; 


(vi) Export Houses may be allowed to import 

Capital Gools against REP / Additional 
licences to enable them to set up common 
servicing centres for the benefit of their 
supporting manufacturers and other export 
ing units . Applications for such import 
will be considered by the Chief Controller of 
Impoils ( EP III Şection ), New Delhi in 
consultation with the technical authority 
concerned ; 


259 . Application for renewal of export house 
certificate will be made in the same manner as 
prescribed above for initial grant of recognition 
certificate , but in the form prescribed for renewal in 
Appendix XXI- B of the Hand Book 


Validity of an Export House Certificate 

260 ( 1 ) . An Export House Certificate may be valid 
for a period of 3 financial years in cases where it has 
been granted on the basis of annual average of 3 years 
of the base period uf export performance . Where 
an Export House Certiticate is issued on the basis 
of the exporis in the irumediately preceding year, it 
will be valid for one year only , i.e., till the end of 
the financial year in which it is granted . Similarly , 
Export House Certificates renewed specifically for 
one financial year as per para 255 will be valid ull 
the end of the financial year in which these are renc 
wed . 


( vii ) Export Houses may also be allowed to im 

port non -OGL Capital Goods (other than 
those in Appendix 1 Part A ) upto Rs. 20 
lakhs (cif ) during the licensing year as per 

para 51 of this Policy . 
( v11 ) Import of one Electronic Telephone Ex 

change for use in its own office (s ) as laid 
down in sub -para (9 ) of para 145 of 
this Policy provided the export house has a 
mininium export of select products of Rs . 5 
crures cr non -select products of Rs. 10 
crores in the preceding financial year ; 


( 2 ) It may be clarified that an existing Export 
House Certificate valid beyond 30th June, 1985 , will 
continue to be valid till the expiry date even if it is 
based on an export performance lower than the 
enlanced minimuru export performance linits tired 
in this Policy . However, Export House Curtificates 
shall be subject to such anwndments in the Policy as 
may be made from time to time. 


( ix9 lbc cxport house whose cxport perfor 

mance in the previous financial year is not 
less than Rs. 1 crore may be allowed to 
import technical designs , drawings and other 
documentations for a value not exceeding 
lis, 10 lakhs for supply to its supporting 
manufacturers ( referred to in para 204 ( 3 ) (i ) 
of this Policy ) against REP / Additional 
licence issued in favour of the export 
house . 


{mport facilitits uvaliable to Export flouses 

261. Export Houses will be grantod ille following 
facilities under this policy : 


RMAC Fucilities to Export Houses 

262 ( 1 ) . Export Houses whosc annual export per 
formance is not less than Rs . 7 crores will be allowed 
IRMAC ( Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Centre ) 
fcilitick , 40 that such lxpxst Houses may supply 
12w nutcrials and components ( non -canalised items 


( i) Import replenishment (REP ) licoacco 

admissible to them as Registered Exporters : 


79 


भारत का राजपत्रं . असाधारण 


TATT Im @ 5 iſ 


EUM 


- 


to 


( D ) The address of the factory of the Actual 

User ( Industrial) ; and the end - product 
manufactured by him . 


only ) to Actual Users off- the- shelf against valid 100 
port licences held by such Actual Users , 

( 2 ) This facility will also be allowed to Export 
Houses which show in the preceding year a minimum 
growth of 50 per cent in their exports of select pro 
ducts, subject to their total exports of select products 
in the year before the preceding year being not less 
than Rs. 4 crores in value , 


(c ) Number and date of industrial licence / 

registraticu of the Actual User (Indus 
trial) ; 


( ) Description of the Capital Goods sold or 

transferred to the Actuai User ( Indus 
ural) ; and 


Import of items placed on OGL 

263 ( 1 ) . Export Houses will be allowed to import 
OGL items against REP licences issued in thcii ovo 
name or transferred to then by others. This facility 
will be available to them for the import of : - -- 


ISU 


s ) Date of sale / transfer . 
(11) Raw Materials, components aild consum 

ables will be disposed of 10 eligible Actual 
Users ( industrial) , and intimation about the 
same shall be given by the Export House 
in the periodical returns to be furnished 
under para 269 of this policy . 


(a ) Capital Goods ( listed in Appendix 1 Part 


B ) . 


( iii ) Spares may be disposed of to any person . 


(b ) Raw materials , components and consum 

ables , which have been placed on Open 
General Licence for Actual Users ( Indus 
trial) , in Part II of Lis: No. 8 in Appendix 
6 of this Book , as per conditions laid 

down . 
(c ) Spares which have been placed on Open 

General Licence for Actual Users ( Indus 
trial) , as per conditions laid down . 


( 5 ) Import of OGL itenis by Export Houses under 
triese provisions shall be subject to the condition , 
inter alia, that the shipment of goods shall take place 
within the validity of the OGL ie . 31st March of 
the licensing year or within the validity period of 
the import licence itseir (without any grace period ) , 
whichever date is Karlier. This restriction will also 
apply to licences issued helore Ist April of the licens 
ing year, iu respect of items which continue to be 
on OGL in the licensing year . The condition for 
registration of contract ; as applicable to the Import 
of items under OGL a Appendix 6 will also apply 
for import of such OGL items by Export Houses 
under these provisions, 


( 2 ) REP licences against which Export Houses 
wish to take advantage of the facility provided in 
sub -para ( 1 ) above shall be non - transferable . 

( 3 ) Export Houses who wish to take advantage of 
this facility of import of OGL items should get the 
licences concerned endorsed by the licensing autho 
rity as under : 


" This licence will also be valid for import vi 

OGL items under para 263 of Import- Ex 
port Policy , 1985 - - 88 ( Vol. I) , subject to 
the conditions laid down , and shall be non 
transferable " . 


( 4 ) Goods imported by Export Houses under this 
facility will be disposed of as under : 
( i) Capital Goods will be disposed vf to eligible 

Actual Users (Industrial) only and intima 
tion thereof shall be sent to the licensing 
authority and the sponsoring authority con 
cerned , within 15 days from the date of sale 
or transfer of gonds to the Actual User, 
riving ille following information : - - 


( 6 ) Export Houses are not allowed to import 
components placed on OGL , for Actual Users 
(Industrial) and appearing in Part I of List No. 8 in 
Appendix 6 of this Bock . However , if the Export 
House has to meet the requirement of imported 
components for an exigible Actual User (Industrial) , 
it may be allowed to import such components 
against REP licence with a specific endorsement made 
thereon by the licensing authority concerned . For 
this purpose, the Export House will furnish to the 
concerned sponsoring authority the name and address 
of the Actual User ( Industrial), the description and 
the number ( quantity ) of each component to be 
imported , and their total value. The sponsoring 
authority will scrutinise the list of components and 
clear only those items for import as are in conformity 
with the implementation of the approved phased 
manufacturing programme of the unit concerned . The 


( a ) Itan: the Addrese of the petal 

Uvci ( Industriai ) ; 


= - 


= 


= 


- - = 


80 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

[Part 1 - SEC. 1] 

- = 
list of such components, duly attested , will be supplier the application for Additional licence, if otherwiso 
by the sponsoring authority to the Export House, for due , 
production to the licensing authority concenc fur 
obtaining the required endorsement on the licence , Additional Licences 
After jinportation , such components will be supplies 

265 (1 ). The value of Additional licences to be gran 
by the Export House only to the Actual User for 

ted in a licensing year under the policy will be calcu 
whom these were meant. The disposal of these 
components shall be duly reported in a separate part 

lated at 64% of the net foreign exchange earned on 

total exports of select products (vide Appendix 16 ) 
in the prescribed quarterly returns to be furnished to 

plus 5 % 
the CCI & E , New Delhi and the licensing authority 

of the 1.0 .b . value of exports of select pro 

ducts manufactured by small scale and cottage indus 
concerned in accordance with the provisions made in 

tries , made it the preceding year. Such Additional 
the import policy . ( The same procedure will appiy 

liveaces shall be non -transferable . While calculating 
for impoit and disposal of componcots by Export 

the value of Additional licence , net foreign exchange 
Houses under the flexibility provided in para 204 of 

earned would be arrived at by deducting the value of 
this book ) 

Advance / Special Imprest /Imprest/REP licences/ Import 
( 7 ) Goods obtained by Actual Users ( Industrial) Export Pass Book issued or their eligibilities for 
from Export House under this provision shall be these during the preceding year from the gross f.o .b . 
subject to "Actual User condition , 

Value of exports of select products. 


Application for Licences 

264( 1 ). Applications for Additional Licences in 
the prescribed foroi giveu in Appendix XXI- C of the 
Hand Book may be made upto 30th September of 
the liceosing year by those holding Export Houst 
Certificates valid beyond 30th June of the licensing 
year. Fresh applicants or those whose certificates 
expire on 30th June of the licensing year may apply 
for grant of Additional Licence within two months 
after securing the Export House Certificates concern 
ed . All applications of Export Houses for Additional 
Licences shall be made to the licensing authority con 
cerned within the area of whose jurisdiction the 
address in the Export House Certificate is shown, 


( 2 ) For the purpose of calculating the entitlement 
for Additional Licence, the value of exports of Select 
Products carrying import replenishment rate of more 
than 50 % in Appendix 17 of the Import Policy in 
the preceding year, shall not be taken into account , 
Also , cxports made in discharge of the export obliga 
rion against Import-Export Pass Book / Advance / 
Imprest / Special Imprest licences carryiog more than 
50 per cent import content, will not be taken into 
account. The Export Houses should not, therefore, 
include the value of such exports while applying for 
Additional Licences. 


( 3 ) In respect of the following export products , 
if the export house is unable to give the names of 
manufacturers concerned , his declaration to the effect 
that the goods oxported were manufactured by SSI/ 
cottage sectoc units ,muy be accepted for the purpose 
of determining the entitlement for Additional 
licenco : 


(2 ) However, in respect of applications for 155ue 
of REP licences, wherever eligiblu , such applications 
may be made to the licensing authority under whose 
jurisdiction the registered , head office or branch of 
the export house effecting the export falls. The branch 
office will be eligible to apply only if it is separauly 
holding a R . C .M .C . or is included ili the R . C . M . C . 
issued to the registered / head office . All euuorsumenis 
relating to REP licences other than the cndorsenients 
relating to facilities referred to in para 201 ( ) 10 
(ix ) above may be effected by the same licensing 
authority . 


( i) Agarbattis , Dhoop and incensc . 
( ii) Leather manufactures including finished 

leather and pajat brushes, 


( 3 ) Export House will be eligible or add tional 
licence for the period (s ) for which the export house 
certificate is valid . However, the itens permissible 
will be those allowed under the Policy on the date of 
issue of the licence. It Ola - 201, therefois , be dece . 
sary , for an applicaut dapurt housi to hold a vali:) 
export bouse certificaíc ar the time of submission at 


(ji) Sports goods . 
( iv ) Spice # Lad curry powder and pastos, 
(v ) Hand made carpete , druggets, durries, 

nandhas and rugs . 
( vi ) Ready -mado yumculk and made- up articles. 
(vii ) Khadi. 
( vill ) Hosiery 


( LX ) Hand loom fabrica 


[ATTIAT 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र . असाधारण 


81 


(x ) Handicrafts . 


( xi) Canned and frozen marine products , 
( xii ) Gem & Jewellery items. 


( 7) Goods imported by export houses against 
Additional licences will be disposed of by them in 
the same manner and subject to the same conditions , 
as laid down in para 263 above . 


Note :-- - Please see Note (4 ) below para 248 . In 

respect of their exports of fresh fruits / vege 
tables, cut flowers and decorative plants , it 
will not be necessary for export houses to 
give names of SSl units . 


(4 ) The Additional Licence so granted to export 
houses will be valid for import of the items appearing 
in Part II of List 8 of Appendix 6 . 


Foreign Exchange for promotional activities 

266 ( 1). The Reserve Bank of Liuda cay allow an 
Export House to utilise foreign exchange upto 2.5 % 
of the fo .b , value of its total exports in the preceding 
year for the following purposes : 
( a ) Foreign Exchange expenditure on promo 

tional activities permitted under the Code of 

Grants - in -Aid for export efforts; and 
(b ) Import of testing instruments and equipment 

for packing and tagging and their spares, 
duly cleared from jodigenous angle, and re 
quired for setting up Common Service 
Centres. 


(5 ) The Additional Licences will also be valid for 
import of Capital Goods listed in Appendix 1 Part B 
which have been placed on Open General Licence for 
Actual Users ( Industrial) . This facility will be sub 
ject to the same conditions as laid down in paia 263 
above , except that the endorsement referred to iu 
sub - para 263 ( 3 ) will not be required in the case of 
Additional licences wbich are already non -transfer 
ablo . 


( 2 ) Thc permit issued by the Reserve Bank of 
India in regard to above will be valid for a period of 
one year from the date of its issue . 


267. The above limit of 2 . 5 % will be subject to a 
raxinun of Rs. 10 lakhs and any amount in excess 
thereof shall be adjusted against the REP entitlement 
of the Export House on its own exports . The upper 
limit of Rs. 10 lakhs will be Rs. 20 lakhs in the 
case of export houses whose exports of select pro 
ducts in the preceding year were atleast Rs. 5 crores 
in value (FOB ) , and for export houses referred to in 
para 262 ( 2 ) above. 


(6 ) Additional Liceoves will also be valid for 
import of spares of the items falling under following 
Heading Nos, of Schedule I to the imports ( Control) 
Order, 1955 (as reproduced in Appendix I- B of the 
Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures ) : 

84 . 12 84 .51 85 . 18 
84. 15 84 .52 85. 19 
84 .22 84 .53 85 . 20 
84 .24 84 . 54 85 . 23 
84 .25 85 .06 85. 24 
84 . 32 85 . 07 87.01 
84 . 33 85 . 08 87 .02 
84 . 35 85 .09 87. 03 
84 ,41 85 . 12 Chapter 90 
84. 47 85. 15 Chapter 91 

Chapter 92 


268 . The procedure to be followed in this regard 
is given in Appendix 18 . 


Reporting and Control 

269 (1 ). Every Export Houscaball maintain true 
and proper accounts of its exports, imports and dis 
posal of imported items. These shall be open for 
inspection by any juthority nominated by the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports , New Delhi, They 
shall furnish to Export Houses Cell in Statistical 
Division , Olice of CCT& E , New Delhi, within 000 
month following the close of the period , quarterly 
statements, lo the fordi prescribed in the Hand Book 
of Import- Export Procedures , 1985 - - 88 ( Appendix 
XXI- D ) pertaining to receipt od disposal of imported 
items against ( i) their own licences ; (ii) licences trans 
ferred by others ; and (ii ) Additional licences. Copies 
of such statements should also be seat to the licenslog 
authority / sponsoring authority concerned of cach of 
Actual user (Industrial) to whom the imported goods 
have been disposed of. Export Houses will also send 


The import of these sparr , shall be subject to the 
conditions that (1) the c .. . value of the spores - 
ported shall in all not exceed Rs two lakhs per Ex . 
port House, within the value of the Additional 
Licenco , sad ( ii ) items appearing in the Appendices 
2 , 3 , 5 Part A , 8 and 10 shall not bo allowed . The 
value linit of Rs , 2 lachs will be Rs. 5 lakhs in the 
case of crport houson whose exports of select produce 
La the preceding gandul ye . were Rs. 5 cruzes (PUH 
La value or above and for Expont Houses referre ! 
in sub- paru 26212 ) abovo. 


sport Pro prescribed 


XI- D ) 


82 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - Sec . 1] 


to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports (EP. 
III Section ), New Delhi copies of their detailed 
schemes and action programmes for export and 
annual returns of export effected , commodity -wise 
and country -wise, sent by them to the Federation of 
Indian Export Organisations, as provided in the Hand 
Book of Import- Export Procedures, 1985 -88. 


( c ) if the Export House is found , on . com 

plaint received from a foreign buyer , to have 
committed a breach of contract or indulged 
in uofair trade practices; or 


(d ) if the Export House fails to discharge an 

export obligation undertaken by it , under 
this Policy or any carlier periods ; or 


( 2 ) It should be noted that Export Houses have 
to furnish separate quarterly reports pertaining to 
import and disposal of the materials brought in under 
para 204 of this Book , and for the import and dis 
posal of components imported by them against REP / 
Additional licences in accordance with the provisions 
made in the policy . 


( c ) if the Export House fails to furnish in time 

the prescribed statements / returns or any 
other information required by Chief Con 
troller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi 
or the sponsoring authority concerned . 


( 3 ) A reasonable opportunity of being heard in the 
matter will be given to the Export House before action 
as above is taken . 


270 . Any change in the constitution , name or 
ownership of an Export House shall be forthwith inti 
mated to the Chief Cootroller of Imports and Exports, 
New Delhi, and the licensing authority concerned . In 
such an event, the Export House shall cease to enjoy 
the facilities provided under this policy , until and un 
less the connected Export House status has been got 
approved by the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports , New Delhi, in favour of the new or reconsti 
tuted body . 


272 . An applicant who is not satisfied with the 
decision taken on his application for the grant or 
renewal of Export House Certificate or for cancella 
tion / amendment / suspension of Export House Certifi 
cate can file an appcal to the Export House Commit 
tee in the office of the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports within 45 days of the date of the said 
decision . The decision of the Committec shall be 
final. 


PART B 


TRADING HOUSES 


Objective 


Kofusal to grant / renew Export House Certificate and 
cancellation / suspension of Export House Certificate 

271( 1). If the applicant has on any occasion dur 
ing the previous three years, tampered with tho im 
port / export licence ; or has been a party to any corrupt 
or fraudulent practice in its commercial dealings or 
in obtaining any licence ; or if any agent or employee 
of the applicant has been a party to any corrupt or 
fraudulent practice in obtaining the licence , under 
the Imports and Exports (Control) Act or any con 
dition of licence granted under Import / Export Con 
trol Order or commits a breach of Import and Ex 
port Trade Regulations, the Chief Controller of In 
ports and Exports may refuse to grant / renew Export 
House Certificate for a period to be specified , after 
giving a Show Cause Notice . 


273 . A new scheme of recognition of Trading 
Houses was introduced in 1981 - 82 . The objective 
of the scheme is to develop new products and new 
markets for export, particularly from the small -scale 
and cottage industry sectors. Export Houses which 
have demonstrated cxport capabilities as laid down, 
and have facilities for testing and quality control 
will be eligible for recognition as Trading Houses , 


Elgibility 


( 2 ) An Export House Certificato may be can 
celled , amended , or otherwise rendered ineffective : 


( a ) if the Chief Controlicr of Imports and 

Exports is satisfied that it had been obtained 
by misrepresentation or issued by oversight ; 


274 . An Export House having a valid Export House 
Certificate expiring on 30th June of the licensing year 
or on the last day of the preceding financial year will 
be cligible to apply for recognition as Trading House , 
provided it fulfills the following conditions ; - - 

(a ) The applicet is registered with the F .I.E .O . 
(b ) It has beca la thc cxport field during at 

lewat three trevious years . 


( b ) It ihc Export Hourc commits a breach of the 

Import- Export Policy; or 


[OT 1- 


1] 


भारत का राजपन्न , असाधारण 


83 


- 


- 


( 8 ) It has adequate financial and technical 10 

sources, especially in regard to quality con 
trol. 


( C ) It has an annual average export in the 

previous tliree financial years, of atleast 
Rs . 15 crores in value (FOB ) of select pro 
ducts (vide Appendix 16 ); these exports 
should be " direct " exports as defined 10 
Part A of this Chapter, and spread over 
atleast three Product Groups. These in 
ports should include exports of the products 
manufactured by small scale units to the 
extent of at least 10 % by way of direct 
exports , or 20 % by way of indirect exports 
of the products manufactured by ancillary 
units. In determining the eligibility of an 
applicant, exports of new products and / or 
to new markets , as defined and laid down , 
made during the preceding ycar will be 
reckoned at twice the actual fob value of 
such exports . Exports of fresh fruits / vege 
tables, cut flowers and decorative plants shall 
be treated on par with export of select pro . 
ducts manufactured hy S $ l units . 


( h ) There will have to be exports in each ono 

of the three years covering the prescribed 
base period ; the exports in each one of the 
Three years will have to be at least 10 per 
ccat of the exports in the preceding year. 
Subject to this , cxports of only 
those products will qualify for recognition 
as have been made regularly by the appli 
cant at least during any of the two years 
of the prescribed three year base period . 


(i) “ Deemed ” exports reſeried to in para 190 

will count on par with other exports. 


(j) Exports falling under pata 224 will not 

qualify for eligibility purpose . 


(k ) Exports made as associates of State Trading 

Corporation or other similar public sector 
enterprise, may also be counted if such 
cxports are otherwise acceptable , and satisfy 
the conditions stipulated in sub - para 248 ( 2 ) 
( d ) ( iv ) of this Chapter . 


( d ) Amongst the three Product Groups referred 

to in (b ) above, the f.ob , value of exports 
in each Group should not be less than 15 
per cent of the export performance level 
achieved . The condition that the qualifying 
exports must be spread over at least three 
Product Groups may be iclared , on merits , 
in cases where the products exported tccboi 
cally happen to fall in the samç Product 
Group , but they are distinctly different from 
each other from the point of view of raw 
materials used in their manufacture, their 
production process and technology and the 
international marketing pattern . For Tiad 
ing Houses which export sclect products of 
f.o .b , value of Rs. 100 crores or more in a 
single product group , the minimum value 
of exports of select froducts in cach pro 
duct group shall be at least 10 per cent of 
the minimum export performance level pres . 
cribed for recognition , 


Applications for recognition as Trudiak Houses 

275 ( 1). Applications for the grant of recognition 
certificate should be maile by 31st May of the licen 
sing year , to the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports, New Delhi ( EP - III Section ) , in the prescri 
bed form ( given in Appendix XXI- A of the Hand 
Book ) and manner. Along with the application , tho 
applicant should also send (i) the statement of exports 
in the prescribed form certuied by Chartered 
Accountant or Cost Accountant or Company Secrelary 
who is not a proprietor , partaer, Director or an 
employee of the applicant or its associates, ( ii) a note 
( 4 copies ), indicating the financial, managerial and 
technical resources of the applicant, especially in 
regarl to quality control and information with regard 
to the various aspects mentioned in para 249 of thu 
Chapter; the note should also give information in 
regard to the number of supporting manufacturers of 
the applicant in the large and small sculo sector, and 
(iii ) the relevant certificate from the public sector 
enterprise in respect of exports made through them 


( c ) Invisible earnings of Coreign cilhange 

referred to in sub -para 248 ( 2 ) : 1 ) abovo may 
also be taken into account for determining 
the eligibility for the purpose of recognition , 
to the extent of not more than 10 % of 
the total minimun export performance on 
the basis of which recognition as Trading 
House can be claimed under the Xolicy 


( i ) It undertakes to show an annual verage 

growtb in elpris o minimun 2096 t . 
become eligiblo for renewal of its latus , 


( 2 ) Applications for recognition of Trading Hours 
and its renewal will be considered by Commitin 
headed by Chief Contrivitor of losures the phyta 
The Committee will alao muoitor the working the 
scheme. 


84 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART I - Sec . 1 ] 


(c ) The shortfall in the minimum export pºr 

formance level for each product group is 
not more than 25 % of the prescribed ex 

port performance level achieved . 
( 3 ) The renewal of a Trading House Certificate in 
the types of cases referred to in sub -para ( 2 ) above 
shall be subject to the following conditions : 
( a ) Renewal will be valid only till the end of the 

financial year in which it is yanted . 
(b ) The shortfall is only in cspect of two of 

the three categories referred to in sub -para 
(2 ) above . 


Applications for renewal of Trading flouse Certificates 

276 (1 ). An applicant holding a Trading House 
Cortificato which had expired during the preceding 
financial year may apply in the form given in Appen 
dix XXI- B of the Hand Book for renewal of the 
certificate to the CCI& E (EP - III Section ) , New Delhi 
by 31st May of the year in which renewal is sought 
subject to the fulfilment of the following : 
(a ) The applicant satisfies the conditions stipu 

lated in the preceding paras regarding grant 

of recognition as a trading house . 
( b ) The applicant shows a minimum annual 

average export growth rate of 20 % in the 
base period as against the preceding three 
financial years of the pre -base period . This 
anqual average growth rate will be calculated 
on the net foreigo exchange realisation in 
the prescribed base period as compared to 
the immediately preceding three years of 
the pre-base period and for this purpose the 
net foreign exchange realisation would be 
the total f.o .b . value of admissible exports 
minus the c .i.f. value of all categories of 
Imprest, Advance , Special Imprest and REP 
licences and Import-Export Pass Buoks, if 
any , issued during the relevant years or their 

eligibilities for these in these years . 
(c ) The applicant furnishes a detailed account of 

its performance as a trading house , the type 
of assistance it has rendered to supporting 
manufacturers , full justification for import 
and utilisation of items particularly those 
appearing in Appendices 3 and 5-Part A 
of this Policy permitted to trading houses 
against Additional licence# provided in this 

Policy . 
( 2 ) The applications whiça do not fwfil the pres 
cribed requirements, are liable to be rejected . How 
ever , in respect of an applicant which has been a 
Trading House continuously for preceding three fianan 
cial years , the Trading House Committee may consi 
der the request for renewal in the following types of 
cascs subject to conditions prescribed in sub - para (3 ) 
below : 
( a ) The shortfall in minimum percentage of 

exports trom SSI/ Cottago Sectors is not 
more than 25 % of the prescribed percentage 
i.e. not loss than 7.5 % for direct exports 

and not less than 15 % for indirect exports . 
(b ) The shortfall la the Prax d growth rato 

is not more than 25 % 1.c, the growth rate 
achieved is not less than 15 % . 


( c ) The shortfalls will be made good over and 

above the minimum level of performance 
prescribed during the period for which re 

newal is granted . 
( d ) If the shortfall is only in one of the types 

of cascs referred to in para (2 ) above , a 
minimum cut of 1 / 3rd shall be imposed on 
(i) the value of the Additional licences 
due , (ü ) value of spares permissible for 
import vide para 280 (9 ) read with 
para 265 (6 ) of this Policy and (ii) valuo 
of items in Appendices 3 and 5 - Part A vide 
para 280 (6 ) and (7 ) of this Policy . 


(e ) If the shortfalls referred to in sub - para (2 ) 

above are in two categories, & minimum cut 
of 2 / 3rd shall be imposed on (i) the value 
of additional licence s due, (i ) value of 
spares permissible for import vide 
para 280 ( 9 ) read with para 265 (6 ) of 
this Policy cod ( ui) value of items to 
Appendices 3 and 5 -Part A vide para 
280 (6 ) and (7) of this Policy , 


Perlod of validity 

277 . Except in cases covered by para 276 ( 2 ) abovo 
the Recogniton Certificate issued to a Trading House 
may generally be valid for a period of 3 years . (Export 
Houses getting recognition as Trading Houses will 
surrender their export houto certificates). 


Facilities available to Trading Houses 

278 . Trading Houses will have the following 
facilities under this policy : 


(1) Import replenishment (REP ) licences ad 

missible to them as Registered Exporters ; 
(ü ) Import roplootshment ( REP ) licences trans 

ferred to there by others ; 


[WTTT (-- * 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र , असाधारण 


85 


( ui) Import of items placed on Open General 

Licence in the manner set down hereunder ; 


( 2 ) -REP licences against wbich Trading Houses 
wish to take advantage of the facility provided in sub 
para ( 1) above shall be non -transferable. 

( 3 ) Trading Houses who wish to take advantage 
of this facility of import of OGL items should get the 
licences concerned endorsed by the licensing authority 
as under : 


" This licence will also be valid for import of 

OGL items under para 279 of Import-Ex 
port Policy , 1985 - 88 (Vol. I ) , subject to 
the conditions laid down, and shall be non 
transferable " 


(iv ) Additional licerces as provided hereunder; 
( v ) Imprest licence to the extent of 100 per cent 

of the value of REP licences carned against 
their own exports made during the previous 

year; 
( vi) Trading Houses may be allowed as per 

para 51 of this Policy to import Capital 
Goods against REP licences Additional 
licences to enable them to set up common 
servicing centres for the bencfit of their sup 
porting manufacturers and other exporting 
units. Applications for such import will be 
considered by the regional licensing 
authorities in consultation with the technical 

authority concerned . 
(vii ) Trading Houses may also be allowed to 

import non -OGL Capital Goods ( other than 
those in Appendix 1 Part A ) upto Rs . 20 
lakhs (c.i.f.) during the licensing year as 

per para 51 of this Policy . 
( vii ) Import of technical designs, drawings and 

other documentations for a value not exceed 
ing Rs. 25 lakhs c.i.f. for supporting 
manufacturers referred to in para 204 ( 3 ) ( ii ) 
against REP / additional licences issued in 

favour of the Trading House, 
(ix ) Import of one electronic Telephone 

Exchange for use in its own office( s ) as 
laid down in sub -para (9 ) of para 145 of 
this policy against REP /additional licences 
issued in its own name. 


(4 ) Goods imported by Trading Houses under 
this facility will be disposed of by them in the same 
manner as laid down for Export Houses in Part A of 
this Chapter . Further, the procedure for import and 
disposal of components laid down for Export Houses 
will equally apply to the import and disposal of com 
ponents by Trading Houses under OGL or other 
wise, 


(5 ) Import of OGL items by Trading Houses 
under these provisions shall be subject to the 
condition , inter alia, that the shipment of goods 
shall take place within the validity of OGL i.e. 31st 
March of the licensing year or within the validity 
period of the import licence itself ( without any grace 
period ) whichever date is earlier. This restriction will 
also apply to licences issued before 1st April of the 
licensing year in respect of items which continue to be 
on OGL in 1985 – 88 policy. The condition for regis 
tration of contracts as applicable to the import of 
items under OGL in Appendix 6 will also apply for 
import of such OGL items by Trading Houses under 
these provisions . 


Import of items placed on OGL 

279 (1). Trading Houses will be allowed to import 
OGL items against REP licences issued in their own 
name or transferred to them by others . This facility 
will be available to them for the import of :- - 

(a ) Capital Goods listed in Appendix I Part 


(6 ) Goods obtained by Actual Users ( Industrial) 
from Trading Houses under this provision shall be 
subject to Actual User condition . 


Additional licences 


B . 


(b ) Raw matcrials , components and consuma 

bles, which have been placed on Open Ge 
neral Licence for Actual Users ( Industrial) , 
in Part II of List No. 8 in Appendix 6 of 

this Book , as por conditions laid down , 
( c ) Spares which have been placed on OGL 

for Actual User (Industrial) as per condi 
tioni laid dow : 


280 ( 1). Applications for Additional licences in the 
prescribed form may be made upto 30th June, 
of the licensing year by Trading Houses holding Recog 
nition Certificates valid beyond 31st March of the pre 
ceding year. Fresh applicants or those wł ose certifi 
cates expired on 31st March of the preceding year may 
apply for Additional licence within two months after 
securing the Trading House Certificate concerned . 
The provisioni in para 264 of Part A above relating 
to submission of applications for additional/ REP 
licence will also apply to Trading Housco. 


86 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I- SEC . 1 


wal jail within this 7 . 5 per cent, import of items 
appearing in Appendix 3 shall not exceed 5 per cent 
of the licencc value. The upper valve limit for single 
item will remain unchanged at Rs. 5 lakhs. 


12 ) Tbc value of Additional licences for the liceu 
ning year to be granted under this policy will be 
calculated at 10 per cent of the net foreign exchange 
carnod on total exports of select products (vide 
Appendix 16 ) plus 10 per cent of the f.o .b . value of 
exports of select products manufactured by small scale 
and cottage industries , made in the preceding financial 
year. Such Additional licences shall be non 
transferable. While calculating the value of Additional 
licence, net foreign exchange earned would be arrived 
at by deducting the value of liccoses issued or cligibility 
for grant of Advance /Special Imprest/Imprest/REP 
licences and Import - Export Pass Books for the pre 
cading financial year from the gross value of export 
of select products 


( ii ) Trading Houses which have effected exports in 
atleast 5 product groups during the preceding finan 
cial year and exports in each product groups aro 
not less than 15 per cent of the total f.ob, value of 
their exports, will be allowed to import items ap 
pearing in Appendices 3 and 5 Part A , upto 7 ,5 per 
cent of the value of the Additional licences, instead 
of only upto 5 per cent. 


( 8 ) Items imported under sub- paras (6 ) and ( 7 ) 
above shall be tho .c which are related to the pro 
ducts exported by the Trading House. At the end 
el cach year , the Trading House shall furnish an 
account of the items imported and the products ex 
ported , with their values, to the Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports, New Delhi, for ex - post-facto 
scrutiny from the point of view of relationship bet 
ween the imports and exports. 


( 3 ) For the purpose of calculating the entitlement 
for Additional licence , the value of exports of Select 
Products carrying import replenishment rate of more 
than 50 per cent in Appendix 17 of the import policy 
of the preceding year shall not be taken into account. 
Also , exports made in discharge of the export obliga 
tion against Advance / Special Imprest/ Imprest licences 
and Import- Export Pass Books carrying more than 50 
per cent of import content, will not be taken into 
account. The Trading Houses should not, therefore , 
Include the value of such exporls while applying for 
Additional licences . 

(4 ) In respect of the export products mentioned in 
xub - para 265 ( 3 ) in Part A of this Chapter, if the 
Trading House is unable to give the names of manu 
facturers concerned , his declaration to the effect that 
the goods exported were manufactured by SSI /cottage 
sector units, may be accepted for the purpose of de 
termining the entitlement for Additional licence , 


( 9 ) Additional licences issued to Trading Houses 
will also be valid for import of spares of the items 
mentioned in sub - para 265(6 ) iu Part A of this 
Chapter, subject to the same restrictions as laid down 
therein , except that the over- all value limit for im 
port per Trading House will be Rs, 5 lakhs , instead 
of Rs. 2 lakhs for export houses. 

( 10 ) Additional licences issued to Trading Houses 
will also be valid for import of Capital Goods listed 
in Appendix I Part B which have been placed on 
Open General Licence for Actual Users (Industrial) . 
This facility will be subject to the same conditions 
as laid down in para 263 of Part A of this Chapter, 
except that the endorsement referred to in sub - para 
203 ( 3 ) will not be required in the case of Additional 
licences , which are already non - transferable . 


( 5 ) Additional licences so granted will be valid for 
import of items appearing in Part II, List No. 8 of 
Appendix 6 of this Book . 


(6 ) Additional licences issued to Trading Houses 
will also be valid for import of items appearing in 
Appendices 3 and 5 Part A upto a maximum of 5 per 
cent of the value of the licence subject to a single 
item not exceeding Rs. 5 lakhs in value . Single item 
for this purpose will have the same meaning as de 
fined in para 7 of this policy , 


( 11 ) Goods imported by the Trading Houses 
against Additional licences will be disposed of by 
them in the samc manner and subject to the same 
conditions as iald down in para 263 in Part A of 
this Chapter 


Long and enduring Relationship between 
Houses and Associatc Manufacturers 


Trading 


(7 ) (i) The limit of 5 per cent for import of items 
in Appendices 3 and 5 Part 1 referred to in sub - para 
(6 ) above will be 7.5 per cent in the case of Trading 
Houses which show in the licensing year a mini 
mum growth of 30 per cent (t.e. 50 per cent more 
than the normal growth rate of 20 per cent) in their 
exports of select products over the preceding floan 


281. A Trading House which onters into long term 
arrangements with its supporting manufacturers for a 
period of not less than 5 years to export select pro 
(lucts manufactured by guch supporting manufacturers 
will be allowed higher value of Additional Licences 


[ mk_ 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 


87 


10 ) The Ilems supplied to such Associale muou 

facturers will be 100 -transferable and will 
be subject to Actual User condition . 


on cxports of products of tuch supporting canulac 
turers. (Such supporting manufacturers with whom 
a Trading House has established long torm arrange 
ments of 5 years or more will under this Scheme 
henceforth be referred to as " Associate Manufac 
turers " ) . The value of Additional licences to be 
granted for the licensing year under the scheme to 
such Trading Houses will be calculated at 121 % of 
the net foreign exchange earned on exports made 
during the preceding year of select products manu 
factured by Associate manufacturers plus 121 per 
cent of the f.o .b , value of exports of select products 
manufactured by those associate manufacturers who 
are in the Small Scale / Cottage industry sector . Sepa 
rate Additional licences shall be issued under this 
provision and no other exports by the Trading House 
should be taken into account while calculating the 
value of such Additional licences. A separate re 
cord of such Additional licences should be maintain 
ed by the licensing authorities. Such Additional 
licences shall be non -transſerable and shall be grant 
ed subject to the following conditions ; 


(1) The Trading House shall furnish quarterly 

returns to CCI & E , Udyog Bhavan , New 
Delhi giving details of items imported and 
supplied to its Associate inanufacturers 
giving their names and addresses. Copies 
of such statements will also be sent by the 
Trading House to the Sponsoring authori 
ties of the Associate manufacturers . The 
Sponsoring authorities will be expected to 
inspect the premises of the Associate manu 
facturers to whom imported goods have 
heen disposed of by the Trading House and 
check the utilisation of the imported items. 
The result of such inspection will be re 
ported by the Sponsoring authoritics to 
the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, 
New Delhi, 


( a ) 


(g ) The Trading House shall furnish a legal 

undertaking to fulfil the conditions men 
tiored above , 


The Associate manufacturer is himself not 
in the export field and has not exported 
any of his products either himself or 
through any other Registered exporter dur 
ing the last two financial years . 


(b ) Violation of the conditions will attract ac 

tion under Imports and Exports ( Control ) 
Act and imports ( Control) order . 


( b ) 


The Trading House undertakes to export 
50 per cent or more of the production of 
Select products of the Associate manufac 
turer for a period of five years commencing 
from 1st April of the licensing year. 


IRMAC facilities to Trading Houses 

282 ( 1). Trading Houses may be allowed to provide 
IRMAÇ facilities for supply of goods (non - canalised 
items only) against Actual User licences, REP licences 
and Additional licences . 

( 2 ) Trading Houses may be given certain in 
frastructural facilities and other facilities to enable 
them to expand their role in foreign trade . 


( c ) 


The list of such Associate manufacturers 
shull not exceed 25 in number (in a year ) 
and will not be allowed to be changed dur 
ing the period of five years . 


( 3 ) Trading Houses may be allowed to certify the 
quality of their own products for export. This facility 
may be given to those Trading Houses which have 
testing arrangements to the satisfaction of the Export 
Inspection Council . 


Foreign Exchange for promotional activities 


(d ) Such Additional licences will be valid for 

import of items as will be admissible to 
Trading Houses against their Additional 
licenccs under the policy . It may, however , 
be clarified that import of items appearing 
in Appendices 3 and 5 Part A would be 
allowed to an extent of only 5 per cent of 
the value of such Additional licences. The 
items imported will be those which go into 
the production of select products manufac 
tured by the Associate manufacturers and 
which are to be exported through the Trad 
ing House . The material. Imported against 
guch Additional licences will be disposed 
to the Associate manufacturers only . 


283 (1 ). The Reserve Bank of India may allow a 
Trading House to utilise foreign exchange upto 2 .5 
per cent of the f.o .b . value of its total exports in 
the preceding year for the following purposes : 


( a ) Foreign exchange expenditure on promotion 

al activities permitted under the Code of 
Grants-in -Aid for export efforts ; 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - Sec ., 1 ) 


SOS 


1 


(b ) Import of testing instruments and cqup 

ments for packing and tagging and their 
spares, duly cleared from indigenous angle , 
and required for setting up Common Service 

Centres . 
( c ) Setting up warchouses and offices abroad 

without obtaining prior approval of the 
Reserve Bank of India ( post - facto intima 
tion shall be sent to RBI immediately after 

setting up the warehouses / offices abroad ) . 
(2 ) The permit issued by the Reserve Bank of India 
in regard to above will be valid for a period of one 
year from the date of its issue. 

( 3 ) The above limit of 2 .5 per cent will be subject 
to a maximum of Rs. 60 lakhs. Any amount in excess 
thercof shall be adjusted against the REP entitlement 
of the Trading House on its own exports , 


Pall A against Additional ficcaces , giving 
description and value, item -wise , and the 
products exported , their names and FOB 
value product- wise, for ex- postefacto scru . 
tiny from the point of view of relationship 

between imports and exports, 
(ü ) Quarterly statement of imports and dis 

posal of goods imported under para 204 

of this Book , as laid down , 
(üi) Quarterly statement of imports and dis 

posal of components , as laid down , 


285 . Any change in the constitution , name or 
ownership of a Trading House shall be forthwith re 
ported to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
New Delhi, and the licensing authority concerned . In 
such an event , the Trading House shall cease to enjoy 
the facilities provided under this policy , until and un 
less the connected Trading House status has been 
got approved by the Chief Controiler of Imports and 
Exports, New Delhi in favour of the new or reconsti 
tuted body . 


(4 ) The procedure to be followed in this regard is 
given in Appendix 18 , 


Refusal to grant / renew Trading House Certificate 
and cancellation / suspension of Trading House 
Certificate 


Reporting and Control 

284 ( 1). Every Trading House shall maintain true 
and proper accounts of its exports, imports and dis 
posal of imported items. These shall be open for 
inspection by any authority nominated by the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhj. They 
shall furnish quarterly statements, in the form pres 
cribed in Appendix XXI- D of the Hand Book of Im 
port-Export Procedures, for 1985 – 88, pertaining to 
receipt and disposal of imported items against (i) 
their own licence ; ( ii) licences transferred by others ; 
and (iii ) Additional licences. The statement should 
be sent to Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
New Delhi ( Export House Cell in Statistical Division ) 
within one month of the close of the period to which 
it pertains, with copy thereof to the regional licensing 
authority concerned / sponsoring authority concerned 
of each of the Actual User (Industrial) to whom 
the imported goods have been disposed of. Trading 
Houses should also send to the Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports (EP MI Section ) , New Delhi 
copies of their detailed scheunes and action programmes 
for export and annual returns of exports effected, 
commodity-wise and country -wise, sent by them to the 
Federation of Indian Export Organisations , as provid 
ed in Chapter XIV of the Hand Book of Import 
Export Procedures, 1985 – 88 . 


286 ( 1 ). If the applicant has on any occasion dur 
ing the previous three years, tampered with the im 
port / export licence ; or has been a party to any cor 
fupt or fraudulent practice in its commercial dealings 
or in obtaining any licence ; or if any agent or em 
ployec of the applicant has been a party to any cor 
rupt or fraudulent practice in obtaining the licence , 
under the Imports and Exports (Control) Act or any 
condition of licence granted under Import Export 
Control Order or commits a breach of Import and 
Export Trade Regulations, the Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports inay refuse to grant / renew Tra 
ding House Certificate for a period to be specified , 
after giving a Show Cause Notice. 


( 2 ) A Trading House Certificate may be can 
celled , amended or otherwise rendered ineffective : 


( a ) it the Chief Controller of Imports and Ex 

ports is satisfied that it had been obtained 
by misrepresentation or issued by oversight ; 
от 


(2 ) Separate statements shall also be sent to 
CCI& E , New Delhi : - -- 
( 1) Annual statement regarding imports of 

items appearing in Appendices 3 and 5 


( b ) it the Trading House commits a breach of 

the Import- Export Policy , or 
( c ) if the Trading Houlc 14 tound , on a com 

plaint receivod from a foreigo buyor, to have 


[ 971- 71) 


भाग्य का गजपत्र अमाधारण 


89 


committed a breach of contract or indulged 
in uninir trade practices ; or 


( d ) if the Trading House fails to discharge an 

export obligation undertaken by it, under 
this Policy or any carlier periods ; or 


the preceding year over the exports in the 
year before the preceding year . For example , 
for additional licensing in 1986 - 87 ( licensing 
year) , the FOB value of exports of eligible 
select products effected in 1985 -86 (preced 
ing year ) should be atleast 20 % more than 
the FOB value of exports effected in 1984 
85 ( year before the preceding year ). 


(c ) if the Trading House fails to furnish in time 

the prescribed statements returns or any 
other information required by the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports , New 
Delhi or the sponsoring authority concern 


( iii ) Only such exports of select products manu 

factured by SSI/Cottage Sector Units will 
qualify for issue of “ Additional licence for 
EME:" which carry an import replenish 
wont rate of 20 % or less during the pre 
coding two financial years. 


(3 ) A reasonable pertunity of being heard in 
the matter will be given to the Trading House before 
action as above is taken . 


(iv ) All such Additional licences shall be non 

transferable . 


287 . An applicant who is oot satisfied with the 
decision taken on his application for the grant or 
renewal of Trading House Certificate , or for cancella 
tion amendment/ suspension of the Trading House 
Certificate can file an appeal for review to the Minis 
try of Commerce, Appeal Section , within 45 days of 
the date of the said decision , 


(v ) For the purpose of calculating the entitle 

ment for " Additional licence tor E . M . E ." the 
value of exports of high value products c.g . 
freight containers ; air - conditioning and refri 
geration equipment; electrical machinery , 
equipment and apparatus ; machine tools ; 
internal combustion engines ; pumps and com 
pressors; industrial machinery and compo 
nents thereof; boilers; motor vehicles and 
automobile ancillarios; railway equipment; 
water transport equipment; machine made 
woollen carpets /silk carpets shall not be 
takon into account. 


CHAPTER XXII 


ENTREPRENEUR MERCHANT EXPORTERS 

( EMEs) 


(vi) The Entroproneur Merchant Exporter shall 

be required to give a declaration to the effect 
that the products exported were actually 
manufactured by SSI /Cottago Sector units , 
whoso names , addresses with Registration 
numbers, wherever applicable , will also be 
furnished . Another declaration will also be 
required to be given to the effect that the 
E . M . E . is exclusively exportinig products 
manufactured by S $ I/ Cottage Sector Units , 


288 . In order to create linkage between domestic 
production and export marketing and also to support 
entrepreneurial initiative in exports from the SSI / 
Cottage sectors , a new scheme for granting certain 
special facilities was introduced in the Import & 
Export Policy for 1984 - 85 . This scheme is being 
continued , Entrepreneur Merchant Exporters will be 
eligible for Additional Licences on the basis of 5 % 
of the f.o .b . value of their exports of select products 
manufactured by SS7/Cottage Sector Units subject to 
the following conditions : 
(i) The Entrepreneur Merchant Exporter will 

not be ao Actual User ( Industrial) . 
( ii ) The minimum fo.b . value of eligible exports 

of select products manufactured by SSI/ 
Cottage Sector Units should not be less than 
Rs. 20 lakhs in the year before the preced 
Ing year and a minimum increase of 20 % is 

achieved in 1.0 .b . value of such exports in 
58 GI/ 85 — 7 . 


( vii ) Additional licence so granted will be valid 

for import of items appearing in Part II of 
List 8 of Appendix 6 of this policy subject 
to the condition that import of a single 
item shall not exceed Rs, 4 lakhs in value . 
For this purpose , a single item shall have 
the same meaning as given in para 7 of 

this policy . 
( viii) Additional licence will also be valid for 

import of Capital Goods listed in Appen 
dix 1 Part- B and raw materials, compo 


90 


THE G & ZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - Sec. 11 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


nents, consumables and spares which have 
been placed under OGL tor Actual User 

( Industrial) in this policy . 
( ix ) The items imported against the additional 

licence will be only those which go into 
the production of select products exported 
by the E .M . E . 


( x ) The goods imported against the Additional 

licence will be disposed of by the licensce 
to manufacturers whose goods have been 
exported by him and will be subject to 
Actual User condition , 


the concemed sponsoring authorities of the 
supporting manufacturers to whom the im 

ported goods have been disposed of, 
(xii) The Entrepreneur Merchant Exporters 

should register themselves as " E .M . Es" with 
the Registering Authorities in accordance 
with the procedures laid down in this regard 
in Chapter XIV of the Hand Book of 

Import- Export Procedures 1985 -88 . 
289 ( 1 ). In para 174 ( ü ) of Import and Export 
Policy for 1984 -85, the minimum growth rate pres 
cribed for EMEs was 50 % . Accordingly, in the 
licensing year 1985 - 86 , Entrepreneur Merchant Ex 
porters who have shown a growth rate of 50 ; in 
1984- 85 as compared to 1983 - 84 will alone be eligible 
for grant of Additional licences provided in this Policy . 
However, from the year 1986 - 87 onwards, additional 
licences for EMEs under the provisions given above 
will be granted on the basis of a growth rate of 20 % 
as prescribed in para 288( ii ) above . 


( xi) The EMEs shall be required to maintain 

proper account of their exports, imports and 
disposal of imported goods to their support 
ing manufacturers . These shall be open for 
inspection by ( 1 ) sponsoring authorities con 
cerned and ( 2 ) lcensing authorities. They 
shall furnish quarterly statements in the 
form prescribed for export /trading houses in 
Appendix XXI of the Hand Book (within 
one month of the close of each quarter ) 
pertaining to receipt and disposal of imoprt - 
ed items against such Additional licences to 


( 2 ) Applications for Additional licences will be 
preferred to the licensing authorities concerned in the 
form prescribed for export / trading houses in Appen 
dix XXI of the Hand Book . 


91 - 92 


APPENDICES . 


-- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


[MTI- 


1] 


93 


- - - 


भारत का राजपत्र . असाधारण 

S _ _ 111 _ = - - - 


IL LITT TETI 


= AUC 


- - - -OS 


A I. 

SOCIOEM - - 


- - 


- - 


APPBNDIX 1 


CAPITAL GOODS 


PART - A 


LIST OF RESTRICTED ITEMS OF CAPITAL GOODS 


ITC -Ray , 2 

Coda 


CCCN 
Code 


1 . Cinema machinery , the following 
(1) Slido projector other than 

ramoto controlled or auto 

matio alldo 
(2 ) Aro lamps operatlog at bo 

low 120 empo. 
(3) Dimmerstat for auditorlum 


881. 3101 


90 . 09 


778 , 2401 


85 . 20D 


ITC-Røv. 2 CCCN Code 

Code 
(15) Finisher Card (conventional 
typo ). 

724 4903 84 . 38 
( 10 ) Roli Pormor . 
(17) S . W . Plot Drawing Pramo. 
(18 ) S . W . Plalahor Drawing Framo. 
( 19 ) S . G . First Drawing Framo. 
(20 ) S .G . Sooond Drawing Pramo . 724 . 5119 84 ,37 
(21) T. C . Finishor Drawing 
(22) 41" Pitoh S.D . Sploning 

Framo, 
(23) 47" Pitch A .D . Splnntag 
Pramo. 

724 . 432184 , 36 
( 24) St . Pitah S.D . Sploning 

Pramo. 


" 


Pramo. 


Ilghts . 


90 . 28 


874 . 8919 
978 . 8600 
778 .8600 


83 . 22 
85. 22 


772 . 1029 


83. 19 


(4) Stago lighting oquipment. 
(1) Emergency Ilghtlos systom . 
(6 ) MADOAI and clootrlo curtain 

control . 
( 7 ) Automatio or wami- utoma 

tlo im dovoloping and pro 
coastag machine oxoopt thoso 
with moloro procesor based 
syston (for black and whlto 


3 . Pelating machinery 


im ) . 


881 . 3900 


90 . 10 


(1 ) Papor cutting machine or 

cluding maah / Dos with do 
vico such at autotdatic pro 
grammo cutting and thro 
kolfo trmant . 


725. 2001 


84 . 33 


( 8 ) Incandescont studio lights 

İttings below 5, 000 Watt . 


172 . 1029 


83 . 19 


( 2 ) Automatio Lotter Prosu cy 

llador printing arching up 
to 560 1 700 mm , 


(9 ) 16 mm , 35 mom and 35 mm 

70 com comploto projection 
and sound ro -production 
equipmoot . 


726 . 7109 


84 . 35 


881 . 22 


90 . 08 


(3 ) Papor Yaralahing and gum 

doing mach /Do other that 
automatło typo . 


726 . 7209 


84 . 33 


724 . 4202 


1 . Juto mill mechladry , the following 

(1) Softoper. 
(2 ) Bmulion plant (conventio 

nel type ). 


84 . 36 


(4 ) All prole mota furnituras 

including locking up (mocha 
Dloal) Qulons . 


726 , 9902 


84 . 35 


124 . 4202 


84 . 36 


(3) Flat bod ovor pick , conyod 

tlopalloomi. 


( 1) Lottor Prou prlotlag presso 

( Platon typo ) troadlo and 
powa Oparatod , other than 
automatio . 


124 . 3111 


84 . 37 


726 . 4209 


94 . 33 


(4 ) Roollog caoblog . 


724 . 4321 


84 . 36 


( 9) Roll/ one wiador --- Tryoria 

bar typo . 


(6 ) Portorating and punahing 

prodot (baod -fod and power 
drive ) 


124 . 4321 


84 . 36 


84. 33 


( 6 ) COP wlading (magoal doil 

fog conventional type ) . 


(1) Hadd-Ind Lotter Pro oylio 

dar priatlog mood . 


124 , 4321 


84 . 36 


726 . 4 


84 . 3SA 
& 94 . 330 


(8 ) Tablo Router for flat gurfaco . 726 . 7209 


84 .35D 


724. 490384 38 


(1 ) Bueming bacbiu . 
( 8 ) Pro - boamlag tushino . 

(9 ) Damplag machino. 
( 10 ) Rolling up maching , 
( 11) Ingpootlot machine 
(12 ) Dut thator, 
( 13 ) Toamor Card . 
(14) Broakor ourd (conventional 

po ) . 


(9 ) Wird stitching moobines s /n 

Noboadod. 


726 , 8100 


84, 32A 


( 10 ) Papor folding muchloo other 

thu tutorto 


725 . 2002 


$ 4 . 32 


94 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART 1- Sec . 1) 
- - - - - --- 

- 


- - - - 


APPENDIX 1 PART-A - Conta , 


ITC - Rev. 2 CCCN Code 

Code 
(11) Ammonla printing machino . 731 . 8200 90 . 10A 
(12 ) Paper cutting knives of all 

sizes if imported separately . 695 .4202 82. 06 
(13) All types of hand numbering 
machines . 

726 .7209 84 . 35D 
( 14 ) Graining machines , for gra 

ining of offset plates ( all 
sizes ). 

726 . 3105 84134A 
(13) Vacuum printing frames for 

offset plate making cxclud 
ing those witb built-in ultra 
voilet light sources and expo 
gurc computers 

726 . 3105 84 . 34A 
( 16 ) Plate whirlers for offset 
plates (all sizes ). 

726 , 3105 84 , 34A 
(17 ) Retoucher tables 

726 . 3105 84 . 34A 
(18 ) Mounting tablos, 

726 .3105 84 . 34A 
(19 ) Paper jogging machines. 726 . 7209 84 , 35D 
(20 ) Roller washing devices. 726 .7209 84 . 35D 
(21 ) Paper perforating machines . 726 . 2002 84 . 33 
(22 ) Lead and Rule outters . 726 , 7209 84 . 35D 
( 23) Corrugating machinery , sio 

glo and double face combin 
ned conveyor . 

725.1200 84 . 31 
( 24 ) Cutting , scouring and slot 
ting inachinos . 

725 . 2001/2002 84. 33 
(25) Registering tables except 

pre -registering systems 726 . 7209 84 . 33 


ITC-Rav . 2 CCCN Coda 

Code 
( 7) Pneumatic cot grinding /cot 

mounting including hand 
operated cot-mounting ma 
obine . 

NA 

NA 
(8 ) Non- automatic pirn winding 
machine. 

724 . 5104 84 . 37 
(9 ) Ordinary warping machino . 724 ,5103 84 . 37 
(10 ) Sizing machine including 

size cooking/mixing equip 
ment except for sizing zero 
twist flament yarn . 

724 . 53 84 . 37 
(11) Non -qutomatic plain / Terry 

Towel/drop box Toomas 
except pick -at -will looms. 

724 , 5129 84 . 37 
( 12 ) 1x1 Shuttle Box automatic 

loom for cotton textile in 
dustry upto 260 cms (102" ) 
reed space excluding canvas/ 
industria ) fabrics /heavy duty 
looms. 

724 . 5101 84 . 37 
(13) All types of hand - operated 

circular knitted machines , . 724 . 5209 . 84 . 37 
( 14 ) All types of flat hand -opera 

ted Initting machines ( ex 
cept those operated with 
puncb card ) 

724 . 5209 84 , 37 
(15 ) Roed cleaning and brushing 
machino. 

728 . 4809 84 . 59 


84 . 38 


4 . Textile machinery , other than 

MIX , Juto and heupir 


84 38 
84 .40 
NA 


(1 ) Doubler winder upto 152 . 40 

com (6 ) traverse for wind 
log upto four ends , 


24 . 4329 


84 . 36 


(2 ) Ring doublers for cotton yarn 

upto 114 . 30 mm (41 ) ring 
diameter and / or 88 . 90 mm 
( 31 ) gauge and / or 241 . 30 
mm (917 lift. 


- 84 . 16 


724 . 4329 


84 . 36 


(3 ) Roeling machine but exclu 

ding for stretched / crimped 
synthetic yarns . 


(16 ) Jacquard upto 1200 nccdles 

capacity but excluding inc 
pitch Jacquard , 

724.6111 
(17) Agor machine (excluding 
flash ager) 

724 .6119 
(18) Batching machine . 

724 .7419 
( 19 ) Bleaching kiers. 

- NA 
(20 ) Calenderlot machino (all 

types ) excluding however 
those for garment/hosiery 
manufacture . 

745 . 2101 
(21) Cloth folding , double folding 

and plajting macbine. 724 . 7405 
. ( 22 ) Cloth lospection machine. 874 . 5309 
(23 ) Cloth mercorinog machine 

excluding those for knitted 
goods. 

724 . 7406 & 

. 7407 
(24) Clothing singeing machine 
(all types ). 

724 . 7903 
(25) Continuous dyeing Plant. 724 . 7403 & 

. 7404 
(26 ) Continuous bleaching Plant 
(Rope type). 

724 . 7401 & 

, 7402 
( 27) Crabbing machines . 

NA 
(28 ) Curing /polymerising machine. 724 .7406 & 


84 . 40 
90 . 22 


724 4329 


84 . 36 


(4 ) Uptwisters all types except 

two -for-one twister, 


724 . 4329 


84 . 36 


84 . 40 


724 . 4329 
724. 5304 


84 . 36 
84 . 37 


84 ,40 
84 . 40 


( 9 (0 ) Rewinders for windiog 

on flanged bobbinges , 
(5) Crimping machines. 
(c ) Texturising machines 

(false twist and crimp 

ing only) 
(d ) Draw texturising ma 

chinos (false twist and 
crimping only ) 


724 . 5304 


84. 37 


84 .40 


724 . 5304 


84 , 37 


NA 
84 40 


, 7407 


( 7) Non - Automatic warp wipd . 

ing machine ( Cone winding 
Qacbino ). 


924 . 5104 


84 . 37 


( 29 ) Cylinder drying machine (all 

types ) , 


724 . 7419 


84. 4 


[HT |- * 1] 


- - - - - - - - -- - - - ---- 


- -- 


- = 


भारत का राजपक्ष : असाधारण 
- _ - - 

- - - - 
APPENDIX I PARIA Concld . 


pan . 


ITC - Ray, 2 CCCN Code 

Code 
5. ſextile Testing Equipment : 
(1) Black Board / Taper Board , 

yarp appearance Tostor . 
Direct Yarp count balance 

( Loa ) . 
( 3 ) Fabric tearing strength tostat . 874 . 5309 90 . 22 
( 4 ) Loa Tester. 
(5 ) Twist Tester . 
( 6) Wrap Block . 
( 7 ) Wrap Rool, 


6 . Miscellaneous items : 
(1) Etohing machine upto 60 x 50 

Cins. 


NA 


NA 


ITC -Rev, 2 CCCN Code 

Code 
(30 ) Colour mixing and bojling 

724 . 7903 84 , 40 
(31) Damping machino. 
(32 ) Dye Jigger (all types). . 
( 33 ) Jot dyeing machine . 
(34) High temperatura, high /low | 724 , 7403 & 

prossuro piove dyoing machine, . 7404 84 . 40 
( 35 ) High prossuro , higb / low tom 

potaturo dyoing plant for 
yaro /top dyoing for woollon / 

worsted /art slik Industries, 
(36 ) Hot fuc. 

724 . 7419 84 . 40 
(37) Hydro extractor. 

724 . 7419 8 4 . 40F 
(38 ) Minoral khakl dyeing plant. 724 ,7403 & 84 , 40 

. 7404 
(39 ) Opon width broaching plants 
( all types). 

724 ,7401 & 84 . 40 

17402 
(40 ) Opon width washing and 

soaping machine ( all types ). 724 . 7419 84 . 40 
(41) Padding /starch /water manglo 
including pad dyoingmachjag. 724 . 7406 & 84 . 40 

7407 
(42) Ropo chomicking and tour. ) 
ing machine 

724 . 7419 84 . 40 
(43) Rope squeezing machino . 
( 44 ) Ropo washſng machino . 
(45) Roller prloting machine . 724 , 7411 84 .40 
(46 ) Pro -gbrinklog machine . 724 . 7406 & 84 . 40 


( 2 ) Garago comprossors upto 250 

cfm . 


743 . 1001 


84 . 11 


(3 ) Contact. printlog cabinet ha 

ving tungsten . 


881. 3900 


90 . 10 


97 . 07 


84 . 59D 
94 . 02 


NA 


85 . 22 


84 . 18 


. 7407 


84 . 15 


NA 


NA 


94 .02 


NA 


NA 


(47 ) Scutchery. 
(48) Squoozing mops . 
(49 ) Stamping machino, oxcluding 

solvodgo stamping/printing . 
(50 ) Steatering machine (all types 

oxcluding vortical stonter for 
heavy fabrics ). 


90 . 16 


724 . 7411 


( 4) Fish finders. 

894 . 7109 
(5) Groen loaf threshing plants 

for processing tobaccº 728 . 4309 
(6 ) Surgicaloperating tables . 821 . 2102 
(7 ) Photographic powdorlou 
machino 13 x 38 oros . 

NA 
(8 ) TV pattern genorators (Mo 
Dochrome). 

778 . 8600 
(9 ) Air Pollution and alr control 
equipment. 

743 . 6009 
( 10 ) Block ice coolen . 

141 .4101 - 
(11) Dental chair. 

821 . 2101 
(12 ) Drawing and mathematica ) 
instruments . 

874 , 21 
( 13 ) Air separation plants except 

liquid nitrogen plants capacity 

below 10 litros per hour. $ 728 . 4802 
( 14 ) Pulling and lifting machines. 744, 2809 
(15) Rioo and Dal millmachinery . 727 . 11 1 
(16 ) Stapling machiau. 

751 . 8801 
( 17 ) Photocopying equipment 

Manual/semi-automatio /au 
tomatic without roduction 
facility and upto a copying 

speed of20 copies per minuto . 751 . 8200 
( 18 ) Sphygmomanometers . 872 . 0202 
( 19 ) Fully automatic bag making 

machine for LDPE , HDPE 
and Poly - propyleno films 
excluding circular looms. 

728 . 4209 


84 . 40 


84. 40 


724 . 7406 & 

7407 


84 . 59 
84 . 22 
84 . 29 
84 . 54 


( 51) Washing machino, square 

beator typo . 


724 . 7419 


84 . 40 


(52) Wel Cotton opener 


NA 


NA 


( 53 ) Winch dycing machino, 


724 . 7403 & 

. 7404 


84 . 40 


90 , 10 
90 . 17 


( 54) Yarn bundling machine. 
(55 ) Yaro singoing machine , 


724 . 7903 


84 . 40 


84 . 39 


( 56 ) Yarn dycing machine for bank ) 
conc / cheoge /béan . 

" 724 .7403 

. 7404 


84 . 40 


736 .8001 


84 . 48 


( 57) Automatic flat bed /rotary 

scroco prloting machine, 


724 .7419 


84 . 40 


(20 ) Machine tool accessories - - 

(1) Lathe chucks. 3 

(11) Drill chuoks, 
(21) Sliding Head Automats upto 

10 mm capacity for watch 

industry. 
22) Centrifuges (Laboratory /rc 

frigerated typo upto 16 ,000 
D . 


(58 ) Sbcaring and cropping mac 

bloc for cotton fabrics . 


736 , 1302 


84 , 45 


724 . 7419 


84. 40 


(59 ) Semi-continuous type of do 

catising machines . 


724 7419 


84 40 


943 3001 


84 : 18 


96 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - Sec . 1] 


APPENDIX - 1 


PART - B 
LIST OF CAPITAL GOODS ALLOWED UNDER OPEN GENERAL LICENCE 
ITC- Rev. 2 CCCN Code 

ITC -Røv, 2 CCCN Code 
Code 

Codo 
1. (i) Machine Toolsi 

(24 ) Hob grinders. 

736 . 1919 84 . 45 
(1 ) Camshaft turuing latbe. 736 . 1319 84 . 45 

(25) Gear shaper cutter grinder/ 
(2) Crankshaft turning lathe . 

736 . 1919 
84 , 42 
736 . 1314 sbarpener. 

84. 43 

(26) Gear shaving cuttur grinder, 736 , 1919 84 . 45 
( 3) Horizontal Boling, Drilling 
and Milling Machine spio 

(27) Thread Chaser grinder . 736 . 1919 84 , 45 
dle diameter 200 mm . and 
above . 

436 . 1511 84. 45 ( 28 ) Camshaft grinding machine. 736 , 1929 84 . 45 
(4 ) Tool room Precision Co 

(29) Automatic Bevel Gear cutter 
ordinate Jig Boiing Machine 

blade sbarpening grinding 
with or without numerical 

machipe . 

736 . 1929 84 .45 
control/computcrised num 

(30 ) Bill Grinding Machino. 736 . 1929 84 . 45 
erical control, other than 
Vertical and horizontal 

(31) Automatic /Semi automatic 
machining centres 736 . 1513 84 .45 

clearance grinding machine 
( 9) Vertical, multi-spindle chu 

for shank type cutting tools . 736 . 1919 84 ,45 
cking Automatic all sizes . 736 . 1305 84 . 45 

(32 ) Spring end grinding machine . 736 . 1939 84 . 45 
(6 ) Broaching Machine above 

( 33) Automatic grladjag machine 
23 tonnes capacity . 736 . 7109 84 .45 

for gripding straight and 

spiral Autos in shank type 
( 7) Thread /Worm milling machine 736 . 1209 83 , 43 

cutting tools . 

736 . 1919 84 . 45 
(8 ) Throad /worm priading ma 

(34 ) Optloal/CNC profilo grinding 
chine . 736 . 1211 64 . 45 

machine. 

136 . 1929 84 , 45 
(9 ) Thread whirling machine. 736 , 1809 84 . 45 

( 35) Burnishing machine . 

736 . 7909 84 . 45 
( 10 ) Spline Milliog Machine. 736 . 1205 14 . 45 

(36) Turret Punch Press . 736 . 2301 84 .45 

(37) Automatic Multi-statlon 
(11) Automatic Auto milling ma 

forming machine for manŲ 
chinc for shapk type cutting 

( acturç of bolts /nuts , bear 
tools , 736 .1409 84 . 45 

Ing races and other forginys . 736 , 4809 84 . 59 
(12 ) Multi - spindle copying/dup 

(38) Tuming, willlog, tapplag 
licatug and profilo milling 

and thread chaging machines 
machinc. 736 1409 for witch case manufacture . 

84 ,45 
( 13 ) Longitudinal and / or circular 

( 39 ) Hydraulic cold circular saw 
marking /graduaung machine. 736 . 7904 84 45 

of bar capacity above 530 
mm dlamoter . 

136 ,1603 84 . 45 
(14 ) Automatic Crankshaft ini} ling 
machino. 136 . 1409 

(40 ) Rotary dishlog and dooging 
( 13) Automatic Camsbaft mllling 

machine, 

736 . 2809 84 . 43 
machine, 136. 1404 

( 41 ) Horisotal upset forging 
(16 ) AUW Bevec Gear Gé. 

machine abovc 25 mm bar 
Horating Machin . . 936 ,1209 

Apachly. 

736 . 2109 84 ,45 
(in) Gear T -youb Hoping Macbluc . 436 . 1219 34. 45 

(42 ) Wue Oct Fearog mosching 136 . 7909 84 . 43 
(18 ) Gear Lapping Machins . 136 . 1219 84 AS 

(43) Electro - chcocal grinding / 
(19 ) Gour /Splive GHoding Ma. 

Qraining machine . 

728 .4809 84 . 39 
chine. 736 6211 84 . 43 

(44) Laser corting /drifing machine 437 . 3219 83 . 11 
(20) Gear Shaving Machine . 130 . 1213 

84 , 45 

145) Blectron beam welding macbine 731 . 3219 83 . 11 
(21) Gear Quoncbing Pien 136 , 1219 84 . 41 

(46) Spring Calling machine 128 . 4809 84 , 99 
(22 ) Slidovıy grinder 

736 , 1912 

. 4 

(41) Automade Mar 0% Ihned 
(23 ) Pro and sideo g Co49 

rollsy ma bir 

A 1803 
riders for cutter My. 
moi die . 1913 

(**) Portable polp buvodliwe BAN T4 TU09 44 45 


84 .43 


[MTT 

1 


1 


] 


भारत का राजपक्ष : असाधारण 


97 


APPENDIX I PARI- B — Contd . 


ITC -Rov. 2 CCCN Code 

Coda 


(77) CNC slagle Spindlo Tutning 

maching upto 200 mm dia 
chuck 


736 , 1301 


84. 45 


(78) Double - ended CNC Chuck 

ing Automat with Contre 
Dovo . 


736 . 1303 


84 45 


( 79 ) Vortical Multi-tool 

chucking Automat 
chucking dia 300 mm 


CNC 
upto 


ITC - Rev. 2 OCCN Code 

Code 
(49 ) Relieving lathe 

736 , 1313 84 . 45 
(50 ) Automatic Tap grinder 

736 . 1919 84 . 45 
(51 ) Splinc shaft grinding machine 736 . 1929 84 , 45 
(52) Automatio cyclo groove grindlog 
machine 

736 . 1929 84 ,45 
(53) Spline rolling machine 

736 . 1203 84 ,45 
( 54) Horizontal gear shaping machine 736 . 1201 - 84 .45 
( 55) Gear rolling machioc - oxternal/ 
intorna ) 

736. 1203 84 . 45 
( 36 ) Copy milling machine for watch 
Industry 

736 . 140984 ,45 
(57 ) Cam milling machine 

736 .1409 84 45 
Universal portable type radial 
drilling machino capacity 50 mm dla 
and above in steel 

736 . 1504 84 . 45 
( 59 ) Crankshaft lapping Super 
Anishing machine 

736 . 1901 84 ,45 


736 . 1303 
736 . 1203 


84 . 45 
84 . 45 


(80 ) Spline Miling Machino . 


(81 ) Polygon Milling Machino/ 

Polygon Profilo machine. 


736 . 140984 .45 


( 82 ) Groep food surfaco Grind 

ing machine with table spoods 
lower than 500 mm por 
minute . 


736 . 1911 


84 .45 


(83 ) Multi-whool cylindrical 

Grinding machine with whool 
span 725 mm and abovo . 


736 . 1929 


84 . 45 


table 


(84 ) Multi-head Rotary 

Grinding machino. 


736 . 1911 


84 .45 


736 , 1901 


84 . 433 


(60) Single /multi-spindle honing 

maching with automatic size 

control 
(61) Automado crankshaft whirling 

machine 


(85) Centreloss Grinding machine 

with pariphoral spood higher 
than 45 metres / por second . 


736 . 1901 


84 .45 


736. 1906 


84.45 


(62) Drop forging , double , --- acting 

pneumatics bammer abovc 5 tong 
capacity 


736 .7909 


84 . 45 


(86 ) Cylindrical Grinding machine 

with periphoral speed 60 
metres per second and abovo . 


736 . 1929 


84 . 45 


(87) Vertical Internal Grinding 

machine for boro dia aboyo 
200 mm . 


736 . 1905 


84 .45 


(88 ) Moving column Drilling 

Contre with 3 -Axis CNC and 
Automatic Tool Changor up 
to 12 Tools. 


736 . 1504 


84 ,45 


(89 ) Helical Broaching machino 

below 10 tonnos capacity 
( othor thad attachment ). 


736 .7109 


84 , 45 


(90 ) Continuous chain type Hod 

zontal Broaching machino . 


736 .710984 . 45 


(63) Counter blow hammers . 736 .2101 84. 43 
(84 ) Transverse roller forging machine 736 . 2109 8 4 . 45 
(69) Cylinder Head Valve Soat 
Cutting machine 

NA NA 
(66 ) Pulse wolding machines. 

736 . 193985 . 11 
(67) Pulse hardening ponorators. 736 . 93985 . 22 
(68) Camshaft lapping/super 
finishing machino . 

736 , 1901 84 . 45 
(69) Crankshaft pln /journal grind 

ing machine with facility for 
crawning and with constant 
surfaco speed for manufactaro 
of crank shafts 

736 1929 84 45 
(70 ) Crankshaft Moss Contering 
Machipo. 

! 736 . 1901 

84 45 
(71) Gear Tootb chamfering 
macblao. 

736 1219 84 , 43 
( 72) Automatic Gear Doburring 

and Tooth Rounding machino 736 .1219 34.45 
( 73) CNC High Speed Gear 

Hobbing Machino 3 -Axis and 
above . 

736 .1202 
(74 ) CNC High Goar Shaping 
Macbine 3 -Axle and above . 

736 , 1202 84 45 
(75) Twło Spindlo CNC Chucker, 
Swing 845 mm and abovo . 

136 130 $ 84 45 
(76 ) Single Spindle Chucking auto 
with CNC 

736 1101 84 45 


(91 ) Super Finishing machlag 

capable of achloving 0 .05 RA 
to 0 . 1 RA surfaco finish (othor 
than attachmonts ) . 


736 .1901 


84 .45 


737 . 3219 


Ngo 


(92) Wolding Robots . 
(93) Friction Welding Machino 

capacity abovo 12 tonna . 


737 . 321989 . 11 


(94 ) Horizontal High spood Band 

Saw for alloy steel with cut 
ting spcod (20 metres per 
minuto or more). 


¥36, 1601 


84 .45 


( 93 ) CNC wiro cat BDM with 

controllod axla . 


136 .1101 


84 . 65 


doborring 


(96 ) Bloctro -chordical 

machino. 


128 4809 


84 . 43 


98 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I- SEC . 1] 


APPENDIX 1 PART- B - Contd . 


ITC-Rev. 2 CCCN 


ICA 


Code 


Code 


Code 


(97) Spark Erosion maching , 3 

Axis CNC , with metal re 
moval rate above 1000 mm 
minutes . 


(113 ) Precision Universal grinding 

machine, for tool room , out 
of roundness 0 . 00025mm , 
and straightness 0 . 0025 mm 
Over 300 mm . 


736 . 1904 


84 . 45 


(98 ) Thermal Deburring machine. 
(99 ) Pulse Hardening machine. 


736, 1101 84 .45 
728. 480984. 45 . 
741.3103 84 .45 


(114 ) Precision Jly 

tool room . 


grinders 


for 


736 . 1929 


84 45 


(100 ) Automatic hydraulic straigh 

tening press with programm 
able sequence for chocking 
and straightening . 


( 115) Profilo projoctor with Co 

ordinate tablo 200X160mm 
accuracy 5 micron and botter. 


874 2111 


90 . 16 


736 . 2201 


84 . 45 


( 116 ) Spotwelding strength control 

and checking equipment. 


(101) Reprogrammable point to 

point for continuous path 
industrial Robots . 


874 .5301 
874 5301 


90 : 28 
90 28 


NSC 


84 . 45 


(117) Torque tester cum Calibratur . 


( 102) Orbital/Spin Revetting machine . 

machine. 


736 .7301 


84 ,45 


(118 ) Spectrophotometer with /with 

out microprocossor control 


•874 .4004 


90 .25 


(103) Torque controlled nut run 

ner . 


( 119) Chassis dynamometer . 


745 . 1101 


84 .45 


874 . 8912 590 16 

190 . 28 
874 , 8912 NSC 


(104) Torque Controlled 

Wrench . 


Impact 


( 120 ) Auto họadlight adjusting unit 


745. 1101 


84.45 


( 121) Rolling brako tester. 


874 . 8912 590 . 16 

190 . 28 
874 ,5109 90 . 16 


(105) Broach sharpening machine 

for grinding broachos upto 
250 mm diameter and 2000 mm 
length and equipped with 
hydraulically operated cross 
slida for flat broach grinder 


(122) Cam lobe checking oquipment. " 
( 123 ) Vertical Spindlo surface 

Grinder- Table traverse 3M 
and abovo . 


736 . 1919 


84 .45 


736 . 1911 


84 . 45 


(106 ) Automatic 

dor. 


Drill 


Poin 


(124 ) Ram Typo Plano Millor with 

MDI/CNC Control. 


736 . 1919 


84 .45 


736 .1404 


84 .45 


( 107 ) Automatic tap and Dire 

grinding machine . 


(125) Moving Column Bed Type 

Universal Ram Type Miller . 


736 . 1919 


84 .45 


736 . 1403 


84 . 45 


(108 ) Tool and cutler grinder for 

spherical radi ol end mul 
cutters, with variable grid 
ing speed of 2000 to 10000 
rpm . 


(126) High Speed pattern milling 

machine Table size IMX1, 4 

M and above with min , 
· spindle speed 3400 RPM . 


736 . 140984. 45 


736 . 1919 


84 .45 


(127) NC /CNC /Optical Profile 

Oxy -Acetyleno Flame cutting 
machino. 


737 . 310985 . 11 


1109 , Sun " pindle Die- sjoking/ 

copy, in ling machine with ur 
without CNC with milling 
spindle diameter 130 mm and 

love and minimum table 
judd ol 10 tonnes. 


(128 ) Slideway/Spiadlo Hardening 

Machino- Flame/Induction , 


741 . 3103 
737 . 3109 


85 , 11 


736 . 1409 


84 . 45 


( 129 ) High Pressure Moulding 

Machine for Foundry . 


737. 1104 


84 . 60 


(110 ) Precision internal grinding 

machino for tool room out of 
roundness 0 . 000625 mm , 
surface finish 0 . 05 microns 
Ra valuc . 


736. 1905 


84 .45 


(130 ) High Pressure Continuous 

Moulding Machine/Lines / 
Systems with or without 
filasks. 


737, 1104 


84 .60 


( 11) Precision surface grinding 

machine, for tool room with 
longitudinal and traverso 
accuracy achlovablo over full 
working range of 0 . 005 mm , - 
surface finish 0 . 025 micron 
Ra Value. 


( 131) Permanent Mould . Casting 

Machines and Systems for 
ferrous metals . 


, 737 , 1106 


736 . 1911 


84 . 45 


(112 ) Procision cylindrical grinding 

machino , for tool room , out 
of roundness 0 . 00025 mm , 
and straightness 0 . 0025 mm 
Oyer 300 min . 


( 132) Vibration Analyser and In 

Situ Balancing Equipment 
Frequency Rango 100 to 
100000 cycles per minutes 
amplitude Range 1 to 3000 
microns peak to peak and 
mm per second , 


874 .8309 


90 . 22 
90 . 25 
( 90 . 28 


736 1904 


84 .45 


[ RT I - -47 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 


99 


- - 


- 


- - 


LUUA 


AT 


- 


- 


APPENDIX I PART- B - Conta . 


CCCN 
Code 


ITC - Rov . 2 

Code 


CCCN 
Code 


(13 ) Glass lovel controller typ : 

pneumatic to control the glass 
level upto 0 . 177 alongwith 
the Controller to control and 
to regulate the batch filling 
tuechanism (Glass Works 
equipment). 


874 . 8309 


ITC - Roy. 2 

Code 
(ii) Machine tools for the manufacture of ball 

und roller bearluys , the following : 
( 1) Automatic cycle grinder for grinding 

external groove / track of bearing 
inner ruces 

736 . 1929 
(2 ) Automatic super finishing /honing 

machine for jonei und outer rices/ 
rellers of bearings 

736 ,1919 
(3 ) Horizontal spindlu rotary table 

surface grinder for buasiny races . 
rollers 

736 . 1911 


90 . 24 
90 . 28 


84 45 


84 .45 


(14 ) Oil gas air ration Controller 

and recorder , 


727 .2209 


90 . 24 


84 . 45 


( 15 ) Electronic typo vernier cali 

pors. 


874 . 2103 


90 . 28 


( 16 ) Leather thickness measuring 

gauges . 


728 . 4809 


89 . 59 


874 ,530990 . 16 


(4 ) Grading machine for balls 

and rollers of bearings 
(5 ) Heading Machine for Steel 

ball and rollers of bearings 


736 . 790984 45 


3. Testing Machines 


(6 ) Flashing machine for balls 

of bearings . 


736 . 780984 45 


736 . 1939 


84. 45 


(7) Grinding and lapping machino 

for balls of bearings. 
(8) Centreless grinder for taper 

rollers of bearings . 
(9 ) Cylindrical/spherical grinding 

machino for rollors of bearings . 


( 1 ) Universal Testing Machine above 

100 toades capcity for testing 

industrial materials 
(2 ) Metal Creep Testing Machine 
(3) Metal Fatigue Testing Machine 
(4 ) Vickers Hardness Tester 
(5) Automatic noise /vibration tester 


874 . 5301 
874 5301 
874 , 5301 
874 . 5301 
874 .8309 


90 .22 
90 . 22 
40 .22 
90 22 
90 .28 


736 . 1906 


84 45 


et 


736 1904 


84 . 45 


4 . Instrument, testiog and electrople 

equipment 
( 1) Amplidyne Generatore 


874 . 891990 . 28 


741.1000984 . 03 


(10 ) Double disc face grinder for 

grinding the face of bearing 
Outer and innor roes and 
roller 

736 1929 84 .45 
2 . Meteorology and Mensorlog Instrumcots 
(1) Bevel Gear tester 

874 , 210990 . 10 
(2 ) Gear Profile /Helix Tester 

874 .21099016 
(3) Bevel Gear Blank Checker 874 . 2100 90 16 
(4) Goar Eccentricity /Rolling Tester 874 2109 9016 


(2) Ozone Generator with ozoniser 

cells, lides , wooden tank 
(3 ) Combustible Gas Indicator liko 

gas detectors and accessories 

explosimetors etc . 
(4 ) Singlo pan an -llytical balance . 

inimurn leadability 0 . 1mo. 
(0 .0001 gm .) 


874 . 8309 


90 . 28 


874 , 5109 


90 . 15 


( 5) Gear Tuoth Spacing Tester 


874 . 2109 


90) 


90 . 25 


90 16 


90 . 11 


90 . 16 


90 . 25 


90 


6 


(5 ) Vacuur type direct roading 
spectrometer 

874 . 4004 
(6 ) Eloctron Mioroscope with or 
without analyser 

871 . 0301 
( 7 ) Automatic Direct Reading carbon 
and sulpbur determinator 

874 .4009 
Automoto Direct Reiding Particle 
size determinator 

874 . 4009 
(9 ) ESR motor 

874 . 8309 
(10 ) Master scars 

874 .8309 
( 11) Digital surface temprature probe 874 . 8309 


90 .25 
90 . 28 


( 6 ) Multi-axis co - oridnate / universal 

measuring machine /instrument $ 74 . 2109 
(7) Leod screws measuring machine 874 2109 
(8 ) Surface Anish and rouginese 
testing equipmcat 

874 ,2103 
(9 ) Bearing inspection equipment likoi 
(c) Radial clcarance checking 
machino 

874 . 2109 
(6 ) Axlal cloacance checking 
machille 

874 . 2109 
(10 ) Hob checking/testing machine 874 . 2109 
( 11 ) Roundness testing machine 874 2109 
(12 ) Furnace prossure controller 

to control the furnace pres 
sure within 6 + 2.5mmHg. 
alongwith the chimney Damr 

874 3009 
por and actuate , Electrica ) 
Impulsor typo . 


90 , 16 


, 16 


90 . 28 


90 . 16 


9 


16 


5 . Machinery for manufacture of 

Garment /Hoolery /Made -ups , the 
following : 
(1) Buttonhole Sewing machine . 
(2 ) Two Needlo Flat Bed I ock 

stitch Industrial Sewing 
Machinc. 


724 . 3103 


84 . 41 


90 . 24 
90 28 


724. 3103 


84 . 41 


100 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I- Sec . 1] 


APPENDIX I PART- B - - Conid . 


ITC -Rev. 2 CCCN Code 

Cody 


ITC - Rev . 2 

Code 


CCCN 


Code 


724 . 3103 


84 . 41 
NA 


NA 


( 3) Power operated Mat-bed or 

circular kaming machines 
other than thosc appearing 
in Part - A of this Appendix , 
but including socks knittlog 
machines (other than Şingle 

cylinder type ). 
(4 ) Button Sutch Sewing 

machine . 
(5 ) Class Feed -off - the -arm Ludus 

trial Sewing Maabine, 


724 . 5209 


84 . 37 


( 22 ) High Speod , two oçedle lock 

stitch machine. 
(23 ) Ba , Tacking Machine , 
( 24 ) Single Noedle Lockstitch 

Machine built in trimmer , 
Speed above 4 ,000 stlobes 
per minute . 
Two or threc Deodle chain . 
stitch machinos. 


724 . 3103 


84 . 41 


724 . 3103 


84 . 41 


724 , 3103 


84 , 41 


724 .3103 


84 , 41 


84 . 40 


10 ) Two or threc necdle two 

thread chainstitch feed - off 
tho -arm machine. 


724 . 7405 
724 . 5302 


724 . 3103 


84 41 


( 26 ) Power driven , cloth cutting 

machinc /tools . 
(27 ) Tie Making Machinos . 
(28 ) Collar Turning and Blocking 

machino & Cuff Turning and 
Blocking machine . 


84 . 37 


(7 ) Lock stitch Tacker and Button 

Sewer . 


724 . 3103 


84 41 


724 7419 


84 40 


( 8 ) Blind Stitch Machines of 

various models . 


724 . 3103 


84 .41 


( 29 ) Now Automatic Collar Tur 

ning machine . 


724 , 7419 


84 .40 


(30 ) Pooket creasing machioc . 724 . 7405 
(31). Vacuum Table . 

724 . 7419 
( 32 ) Elastic Lace making machine. 724 . 5301 


84 . 40 
87. 37 


724 . 3103 


84 . 41 


(9 ) Two thread chainstitch for 

high speed seaming and 
banging operation with gear 
driven puller feed compound 
foed of speed 3 , 000 stitches 

and above per minute . 
(10 ) Single Needle , cylinder bed 

upper locd blind stitch 
machine . 
Elastic Inserting machine op 

variety of parment. 
(12 ) Single Decdle , drop feed 

cbajastitch tachino, speed 
above 4 , 000 stitches per 
minute . 


724 . 3139 


84 , 41 


724 , 7419 


728 .4809 


84. 59 


84 . 40 
84 .40 

NA 
84 . 40 


724 3103 


(33) Hook And Ber setting 

macbine . 
( 34) Rotary Ironing machine . 
( 35 ) Bandknife Cutting machine 
( 36 ) Cloth Laying machinc. 
(37) Linking macbloc . 
(38 ) Shirt folding tables 
( 39 ) Collaratte curiog macbine 
( 40 ) Dias Cutting machine. 
(41) Spot Ronjoying Guos. 
(42) Throad Cleaning machines. 


84 .41 


( 13) 


Threads chainstitch top and 
bottom covering machine. 


724 . 3103 


84 . 41 


724 . 7405 . 
724 . 7419 
NA 
724 , 7905 
724 . 7405 
724 , 7405 
724 . 7419 
724 , 7419 


( 14 ) Two Deedle chunstitch os 

Jockstitch machines . 


724 3103 


84 . 41 


( 15 ) Singlc needle lockstitch Flai 

Bed Macbine , specd above 
4 , 000 stitches per minute 


84 . 40 
84 . 40 


724 . 3103 


84 . 41 


116 ) Higb Spoed two thread chain . 

stitch machine 1 , 2ut 3 
needles drop ſeed 


(43) Presses for shirts , trousers 

od jackets . 


724 . 7419 


84 , 40 


724 3103 


84 . 41 


( 44) Fusing Presses 


724 , 7419 


84 .40 


124 . 3103 


84. 41 


724 . 7419 


84 . 40 


(17) Siny . Necdle FB. Hled Drop 

fred in ich machine 
( 18 ) 1 ) Chainstitch overcdging 

machines 
( 11 ) Suicly suitcb Machines 


(45) Collar Prou . 
(46) Cuff Press. 


, 


724 . 3103 
724. 3103 


84 . 41 
84. 41 


84 . 40 


724 . 7419 
124 . 5419 


(47) Blooto Prew , 


84 .40 


( 19 ) Higb Sped iwin needle lood 

lockstitch of Apeed 3 , 000 
& titches and above 


124 3103 


84 . 41 


steam 


84 . 40 


(48) Stoan Tables with 

Irony . 
(49) Clotb Drills, Notcher 
(30 ) Pat ia Perfors for 


724 . 7419 
142 ,7403 


( 20 ) 


84 .40 


High Speed double nocule 
lap seam felling Industrial 
sewing machine of % pood 
3, 000 Atitches and above pot 
ginule . 


NA 


NA 


124 1213 


Arabroider 


124 5303 


84 . 31 


( 1) High Speed , necolo Peco , 

two needle Mal bed Industrial 
Sewing Machine 


( 51) Multi Med 

Macklocs 
(37) Scalloping 

Vacblert 


Arnbroidery 


4 


110) 


124 3303 


89 31 


( 


I – 


1] 


मारलका गणपक्ष . असाधारण 


101 


APPENDIX I PARI-B - fonid . 


ITC -Acy : CCCN Code 

Code 
(53 ) Trycot Embroidery Machine . 724 9303 84 31 
(34 ) Embroidery Machines (Gene 
ral) . 

724 .5303 
(55 ) Hemstitch Machines . 

724 . 3103 


17C- Rev . 2 CCCN Code 

Code 

. 
724 , 5209 

84 . 31 


(83) Double Jersey circular kolt 

ting machinc 


(86 ) Sowing machine Zig Zag Flat 

hed . 


124 3103 


84 41 


724 , 3103 


(56) Saddle Stitch Machines . 
(57) Label Stitching Machinos. 


724 . 3103 


84 . 41 


( 87 ) High speed cloçular knitting 

machines gipkorbody 1898 
and above with multifeeders 
(ovor 64 , foods) and equipped 
with a positivo food mocha 
nism , 


(58 ) Stoam presses with Portable 

Boilors . 


84 37 


724 . 7419 


84 . 40 


724 , 3209 


728 7419 


84 . 40 


(59 ) Heat Transfer Press. 
(60 ) Ticket Printing Machine , 

other than off-set, 


(88 ) High speed ciroular Rib 

machines (64 foeders and 
above) 1688 and above and 
oquippod with a positive feed 
mechanism , 


726 . 7209 


84. 33 


724 . 5209 


84 . 37 


NA 


NA 


NA 
745 2209 


NA 
84 . 19 


(89 ) High speed circular Interlock 

machines (64 feeders and 
above) 2088 and above 
aquippod with a positive feed 
mechanism . 


724 . 5209 


84 . 37 


NA 


NA 


NA 
724 , 7403 


NA 
84 . 40 


(90 ) High speed circular knitting 

machines for Terry fabrics 
with designing facility and 
equippod with a positivo food 
mechanism 


724 .5209 


84 . 37 


(61 ) Pattern Making Machinc . 
(62) Shade Testing Machine. 
(63) Packing Machine. 
(64) Quilting Machine . 
(65 ) Fringing Machine. 
(66) Slitting Machine . 
(67) Cloth Measuring and Testing 

Machines . 
(68 ) Knife Sharpening Machines. 
(69 ) Pattern Grading Machine. 
(70 ) Steam Cabinet. 
( 71) Steam Ironing with or with 

out cleaning tables . 
(72) Checking Presses, 
( 73 ) Conveyors. 


874 . 5301 
736. 1919 
NA 


90 . 22 
84 . 45 


( 91) High Speod ciroular cyelet 

knitting machinos 1488 and 
Above and multifooders and 
cquipped with a positive feed 
Trochapis . 


NA 


724 ,5209 


84 . 37 


724 . 7419 


84 . 40 


(92 ) Shrinkage coptrolling Machi 

Des for knitting fabrics , 


724 .7419 


84 . 40 


724 . 9419 


84 . 40 


( 93 ) Dyeing machines for tabular 

knitted fabrics, 


84 . 40 


NA 
744 . 2301 & 

. 2302 
724 . 7419 


NA 
84 . 22 


724 . 7403 & 

. 7404 


for 


tubular 


( 94 ) Loop driers 

knitted fabrics. 


724 . 7419 


84 . 40 


84 . 40 


for 


( 95 ) Mercerising machines 

tubular knitted fabrics 


84 . 40 


(74 ) Collar Printing Machine, 
( 75) Button Sewing machine 

automatic 
(76 ) Smocking Machines . 
(77) Calendering Machinc, 


84 . 41 


724 . 7406 & 

. 7407 


724 . 3 3 
724. 3103 
745 .2101 


84 .41 


( 96 ) Singing machines for tubular 

fabrios . 


724 , 7419 


84. 40 


84 . 16 


(97 ) Raising machines for tubular 

knitted fabrios. 


( 78 ) Button and Rivet Flying 

Machines and /or dies thereof. 


724 . 7419 


84 . 40 


NA 


NA 


724 .3103 


84 , 41 


124 .7405 


84 . 40 


(79) Cup Seaming Machine. 
(80) Candle Wick Tufting 

Machine. 
(81) Econe Copier ( Pattern Dup 

licator). 


NA 


NA 


724 . 3103 


84 . 41 


NA 


NA 


(98 ) Pile cutting machines for 
koltted fabrics. 

* 
(99 ) High speed multiple Needlo 

sewing machine . 
( 100) Plotoching High Speed multi 
(100 ) 

ple needle machine . 
( 101) Automatic pocket weld scw 

ing machiac . 
( 102 ) Edge cuatrol scamers 


724 3103 


84 . 41 


. 


(82) Trimo- Trim Master Fitted 

with Howver motor , 


NA 


84 . 41 


724 . 3103 
724 , 3103 


84 . 41 


724 . 5209 


84 . 37B 


(83 ) Fully fashioned Flet knitting 

machine (power driven ) . 
(84 ) Snap fastnors fixing machines 

and / or dies thereof . 


NA 


( 103) Automatic xerger with speed 

control devices . 


NA 


102 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I . Sec . 1 ] 


OCCN 

Code 
84. 42 


84 . 42 


90 . 25 
84 . 42 


84. 17 


84 . 17 


· 


84 . 21 


84. 59 


84 42 


APPENDIX 1 PART- B -- Contd . 
ITC -Rey 2 CCCN 

ITC - Rev. 2 
Code Coda 

Corde 
( 104 ) Twin added automatic cuff 

(13) Hydraulic sulphide applicator. 724 . 8002 
cutton holding machina , 

(14) Leather Polishing Machine 
( 105) Single Cylindor Socks Knit - - 

and Creasing Machine . 724 8009 
ting Machine . 

NSC 

84 . 37 
( 106 ) High spood noodle cock stitch 

( 15) Colorimeter. 

724 . 4009 
industrial sewing machine of 
spoed 4000 stitches and above 

(16) Pneumatic glazing machine. 724 . 8009 
per minụte . 724 3103 84 41 

(17) Scco - Therm type drying units . 741. 6019 
( 107) Chain stitch tacker Button 
sower . 724 3103 84 41 

(18 ) Stretching and drying machine 

with or without conveyor 
( 108 ) Sodium chloride bleaching 

And toggles. 

741 . 6019 
plants for knitted tabular 
fabrics complete with all ancil 

( 19) Automatic Rotary type spra 
larios . 

NSC 84 40 

ying machine with 4 (four) 
spray gulls or more 

743 . 2703 
(109 ) Socks setting and dyeing 724 7403 

84 40 
machines . 

7404 

( 20 ) Automatic /semi-automatic 

Hydraulic Press ( 750 tonnes 

Or more ). 
(110) Bag closing machino two needle 724 3103 , 84 41 

728. 4809 

(21 ) Hydraulic splitting machine 
(111) Component numbering 

for leather, 
machine. 

NSC 84 35 

(22 ) Band knife splitting machino 
(112 ) Tee shirt printing curing 

(non -hydraulic) 

736 2309 
machino. 

NSC 84 40 
(113) Paper Press for finishing of 

(li) Leather footwear machinery , 
fabrics . 

NSC 

leather goods machinery and 

machinery for leather apparel — 
(114 ) Continuous decatising machine , NSC 84 . 60 

(1) Strap cutting machine . 724 . 8001 
6 . Machloery for Leather proceselog / 

(2) Strap folding machine. 724 , 8001 
finshlog/manufacture, 

(3) * Upper folding machine . 724 . 8001 
(1) Tanning machines required for 

(4 ) Ingolc covering machine. 724 , 8001 , 
finishing units 

(5) Flatbed double needle 
(1 ) Hydraulic /Iojectronio feshing 

sewing machine. 

724 . 3103 
machines . 724 . 8002 84 .42 

( Post bed -single needle sew 
(2 ) Hydraulic /Pneumatic gam 

Ing machine. . . 

724 . 3103 
mying machine . 724 . 8002 84 . 42 

( 7) Post bed- double Deadlo sew 
(3 ) Combined hydraulic sap 

ing machine. 

724 . 3103 
mying and setting machines . 724 . 8002 

84 . 42 

( 8 ) Post bed -single noodle under 
(4 ) Hydraulio /Pneumatic /Inject 

cdge trimming . 

724 , 8001 
ronic setting machiocs . 724 . 8002 84 . 42 

(9) Raised cord sewing machine. 724 . 3103 
(5) Hydraulic shaving machine 
above 1250 mm , 124 , 8002 84 . 42 

(10 ) Sewing machine Zig Zag 
Flat bed . 

724 . 3103 
(6 ) Vibration Type staking 
macbinc . 724 . 8002 84 , 42 

(11) Sowing machine oylinder bed . 724. 3103 
( 7 ) Leather buffing machines - - 

( 12 ) Automatio lock -stitching 
1200 mm and abovo . 724 .8002 84 . 42 

cylinder bed bartacker . 

724 . 3103 


84 . 40 


. 


84. 42 
84 . 42 


84 . 42 
84 . 42 


84 . 41 


gam 


84 . 41 


84 , 41 


84 . 42 


84 . 41 


84 . 41 


84 , 41 


84 .41 


745 .2709 


84 . 21 


(13 ) Coarse stltoh arm -typo sewing 

nachine for ruffled work and 
genuino mocassin , 


(8) Curtaln coating machino. . 
( 9) Automatic padding machine 

And drying machine. 
(10 ) Rotary Ironing machine . 


724 . 3103 


741. 6019 
724 .8009 


84 . 17 
84 . 42 


84 .41 
84. 42 


(14 ) Pulling over machine. 


724 . 8001 


(11) Rotary printing machine for 

loathers. 


(15) Pulling ovor and coment 

lasting machino . 


724 . 8001 


724 . 7419 


84 . 40 


( 16 ) Tack lasting mabino 
(17) Kamboriin lasting machine . 


(12) Embossing plates and eng 

raved rollers for leather. 


84 . 42 
84 . 42 
84 . 42 


724 . 8001 
724 . 8001 


724 . 8009 


84 42 


[ TT I - -IT 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र अमाधारण 


103 


- 


APPENDIX 1 PART- B - Cond. 
ITC - Rev. 2 CCCN 

Code Code 
724 . 3103 84 41 (70 ) Button suwing machine . 


ITC - Rev. 2 

Code 
724 . 3103 


CCCN 
Code 
84 , 41 


(18 ) Outsole stitchlog machine. 


( 19 ) Heel Scat cementlasting 

machino. 


724. 8001 
724 . 3103 


84, 42 
84 41 


( 51) Bigh speed twin needle 

fctd lockstitch of speed of 
3, 000 stitches and above 


724 3103 


84 41 


(20 ) Mokay stitching machine 
(21) Automatic punching and eye 

letting machine. 


( 52 ) 


874 . 5309 


90 .22 
90 23 
90 24 
90 25 
90 28 


724.8001 
724 . 8001 
724 . 8001 


(22 ) String lasting machine. 
( 23 ) Buckle slappling machine. 
(24 ) Clicking machine hydraulic 

(bottom ). 


Testing equipments, 
namely , Flexometer , 
Lastometer, Penetrom 
metor, Permcometer 
Rub Fastness Tester 
(wet and dry ), Dycing 
and Tumbling machine 
( laboratory model) , 
Tensile Tester . Sole 
Adhesion tostor, Shrink 
ago Temperature Test 
ing machine, Abrasive 
Tester for leather /rub 
ber solos and solo flex 
resistance tester , 


724 8001 


84 ,42 


724 . 8001 


84 42 


(25) Insole attaching machine. 
(26) Fore part lasting machine 

( Astra type ). 
(27) Side Lasting machine (Hyd . 

raulic ) . 


724 .8001 


84, 42 


724 . 8001 


( 53) 


874 . 3309 


84 .42 


Designer s kit consist 
ing of designer s knite , 
shoc measuring tape , 
designer s tape, and 
satra vacuum former 
( OL y 5 kits in a year 
can be imported by one 
unit) . 


(54 ) Hydraulic 

machines . 


scudding 


84 . 42 


(1) 84 . 40 

Is for 
textile 


(55) Crimping machine. 
(56 ) Forepart conditioning 

machinc. 


874 .5309 
874.5309 


(il) 84 . 42 

lg for 
leather 


874 . 5309 


(28) Edge trimiping machine. 724 7001 
( 29) Fdge rotting machine. 724 . 8001 
(30 ) Counter moulding machine. 724 . 8001 
(31) Counter tighting machine . 724 ,8001 
(32 ) Heel breasting machine . 724 . 8001 
(33) Heel buildiog machine. 724 . 8001 
(34) Stamping machine for upper/ 
llning /socks. 

724 . 8001 
(35) Upper forming machinç. 724 . 8001 
(36) Upper perforating machine. 724.8001 
(37) Pattern grading machino. 724 . 8001 
(38 ) Upper seam rubbing machine. 724 .8001 
(39) Upper reinforcing machine. 724 .8001 
(40) Upper cementing machine. 724 . 8001 
(41) Mocassin llping trimming 
machido. 

724 . 8001 
(42) Mocagsin preforming machine. 724 .8001 
(43) Folding machine for sides 
for brief case , 

724 8009 
(44 ) Blind eyeletting machine 
(Automatic ) 

724 . 8009 


874 , 5309 


84 .42 
84 . 42 


(57 ) Pounding Beating and 

froning machino. 
(58 ) Lining roughing machine 
(59 ) Automatic Taping and 

Scam Rubbing Machine. 
(60) Thermo- cementing -cum 

folding machino . 


874 , 5309 


84 .42 


874 .5309 


84 . 42 


84 , 42 
84 , 42 


Pattern Making Machines 


(61) Pottero binding machine. 


724 . 4400 


84 . 59 


84 , 42 


(62 ) Pattern corner cutting and 

binding machine. 


728 , 1209 


P4 47 


84 . 42 


(63) Hole punching machine . 


728 . 1209 


84 . 47 


(45) High spood corner stitching 

machine . 


724 .3103 


84 .41 
84 . 41 


(64 ) Shears for cutting pattern . 


728 . 1209 


84 .47 


(46 ) Suit -case stitcbing mochine . 


724 . 3103 


(65) Vice for holding pattern . 


695 . 3919 


82 04 


724 ,3103 


84 .41 


(66) Punches for Model Room . 


695 . 3402 


82 03 


(47) Heavy duty cylinder bed 

industrial sewing machine. 
(48 ) Two Needle lock -stitching 

machine. 
(49 ) Button hole (cyclots cod ) 

machine, bead only . 


724 . 3103 


84 . 41 


(167 ) Knife making equipment for 

cold steel and forged steel. 


NA 


NA 


724 . 8009 


84 . 42 


(68 ) Punches of all varieties. 


695 . 3402 


84. 03 


104 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SEC . 1] 


APPENDIX I PART- B - - Cuniu . 


ITC -Rm . 2 CCCN 

Code 


Code 


(97 ) Looso/nalling machino. 
(98 ) Top Ilft slugging machine 


724.8009 


84 . 42 


17C Rev . 2 CCCN Code 

Cock 
724 . 8001 84 . 42 
724 .8001 84 . 42 
724 .8001 84. 42 
728 . 4809 84 . 50 


(99 ) Channel closing machino. 


745 . 2709 
724 . 8001 


84 .21 
84 . 42 


( 100 ) Humidifior for uppers. 


724 . 8001 


84 . 42 


( 101) Ironing and conditioning ma 

chloe. 
(102) Sole lovelling machino. 


724 . 8001 


724 . 8001 
724 . 8001 


84. 42 
84 .42 


124 8001 


Closing Room Machines 
(69 ) Uppor Embossing machine 
(70 ) Comanting machine and 

Cementing gun 
(71) Upper odgo inking machine. 
( 72 ) Automatic lacing machino 
(73) Stitch marking machino . 
( 74 ) Lining trimming machino. 
(75) Too cap applicator thormo 
plastic . 

Sewing Machines 
( 76) High spood (3000 stitchos por 

mlauto and abovo ) flat bed 
single noodle industrial sowing 

machino. 
(77) High Bpood ( 3000 stitches per 

minuto and abovo ) flat bod 
sloglo noedlo indastrial sowing 
machine with uador trimmor . 


84 .42 
84 . 42 
84. 42 


( 103) Twin Solo attacbing machino . 


724 . 8001 


728 . 4809 


84 .59 


( 104) Roactivatiog pladt for shoes 

and solos 


728. 4809 


84 . 59 


( 105 ) Dust Removing machino 

pneumatic hydraulic 
( 106 ) Bdge- Setting inachino. 


728 . 4809 
724 8001 


84 . 99 
84.42 


724 . 3103 


84 .41 


woven 


(iii ) The following machines for manufacture o 

leather 
(1 ) Bloctrica ) inachine for cutting 
and slanting strapy . 

774 8002 


724 . 3103 


84 .41 


84 .42 


( 78 ) Multiplo row oppor chain 

stitching machine 1. c. 3 rows 
and abovo . 


724 , 3103 


84 .41 


( 2 ) Automatic machine to coot 

rol, to plant and to glue 
leather straps . 


124 . 8002 


84 . 42 


84 . 42 


(3 ) Electro -Pacuamatic weaving 

machino for loatbor . 


724 . 8002 


84 . 42 


(4 ) Bobbin machine with counter. 


724 . 8002 


84 42 


84 . 42 
84.42 


7. Dental Egalpment 

(1) Casting machine and accosto 


84 42 


737. 1109 


84 ,43 


84 .42 


743. 5009 


84 18 


84 . 42 


( 2 ) Centrifuges and ultra -coptri 

fuges haviog spood more than 

16 ,000 rpm 
(3) Electrical drill, hoating fur 

paco , cloctricalpulm , dental 
( 4 ) Dontal high 4pood cutting and 

furnishing aod polyhjog load . 


872.0101 


90 17 


84 . 42 


872 .0101 


90, 17 


Units Soks/ Counters/Insolos /Hoels 
(79 ) Channolling and grooving. 724 . 8001 
(80 ) Automatic toughing machine 
for solos and losolos . 

724 , 8001 
(81) Hool attaching machino. 724 . 8001 
(82) Wolt (Rand) attachin ma 
chino. 

724 .& poi 
(83) Hool and solc brushing ma 
chino . 

724 .8001 - 
(84 ) Hool and solo buffing ma 
chino 

724 . 8001 
(85) Evening and roughlag ma 

chine for solos and losolos. 724 . 8001 
(86) Edgo Inking machine for 
kolor . 

724 . 8001 
(87) Heel nalling machino. 

724 . 8001 
(88) Edgo pro-trimming machine 724 . 8001 
(89) Rocessing and roughing solen 724 . 8001 
( 90 ) Rocossiog welt. 

724 . 8001 
(91) Scouring and rending machloe 72 . 8 XII 
(92 ) Studs attaching iniluno. 24 800 
(93) Hool building renine 

74. 800 
(94 ) Heel covering 

porc 
Um tic. 

7 4 . 800 ) 
099) Leather cover cuttiny a 
chine for heels . 

* 24 , 21 
(96 ) Sarewing machine 

, 724 .601 


8 . Cinematogrunte Studio and Film Laboratory Equipment 


84 . 42 
84. 42 
84. 42 
84 .42 
84, 42 


( 1 ) Film oleaning sod /or waxing 

ind /or poduhing coachino . 


881 . 3900 


90 . 10 


90 . 10 


(2 ) Colour Film Printing Machinos. 881. 3900 
(3 ) Roduction and /or Enlarging 

priotors fo picture and sound 881 . 3900 


84 .42 


90 . 10 


84 . 42 
84 . 42 


90 . 10 
90 . 28 


84 . 42 


(4 ) Film Numhertog machinos. 881 , 3900 
(5 ) Sengitointers or cognomotors 874 . 4029 
(6 ) Cougtors for " . 0m /35 mm / 

171 mm /16 mm / 8 nim Alms 

measuring Allm -lengths 873. 2009 
(17 ) Colour-temporaturo motor , 

oxposure motery , dopsity 
viewont . 

874 . 4029 


90 ,27 


84 . 42 


84. 42 


90 . 23 


[Yrt I - 1] 


भारत का राजपत : मसाधारण 


105 


11411 

e 


APPENDIX I PART- B -- Conra , 


ITC Ror. 2 OCCN Code 

Code 
893 . 2009 

90 . 21 


ITC - Rev. 2 CCCN Code 

Code 


874 . 4029 


90 . 29 


(8) Profoottoo footage counton , 
(9 ) Colour Alm analysoi. 
( 10 ) Cinamatograph cameras 

( 70 mm , 35 mm , 16 mm , 
8 mm ) with attachments In 
cluding lenses and 200m lono. 


(31) Equipment roqulred for pro 

foasional recording studios , 
the following - 
(1 ) 35 mm and 16 mm 

magnotic rooordors, to 

oordert /reproducers . 
( 11 ) 33 mm and 16 mm optical 

rocordoro . 
(II) Interlock motors. 


161. 8100 


881. 2 


90 . 08 


92. 11 
90 .08 
85 .01 


881 . 2103 
918 . 2119 


(11) Intermodalation and /or crow 

modulation sets for checking 
Alm dlstortion . 


881 . 3900 


90 . 10 


( 12 ) Animation stand ( lor trick 

work ). 


881, 3900 


20 . 10 


85. 19 


772 . 1013 
. 


881 . 3900 


90 . 10 


881 . 2 


(1 ) Blectronio looping- system 

or Bloctronic Synchroni 

ser /Programmer systom 
(v) 12mm (1") and 6 mm (t ) 

profossional recorders for 
storco and multi- track ro 

cordings 
( 1) Tape recorders with 2 

magnetic tapa. 
( wit ) Optical count down asse 

mbia . 


(13) Magnotlo stripping machines 

(16 mm /35mm /70mm ) 
(14 ) 70 / 35 mm film processing ma 

chines with accessorios (for 

colour illms). 
( 15) Optical printers reduction--- 

blow up and special effect. 


90 . 08 


881 . 3900 


90 . 10 


881 . 3900 


90 . 10 


881 ,3900 


90, 10 


881. 3900 


90 . 10 


( 16) 


Sound Transfer Equipment 
Magnetio to optical tape to 
tape and tapo to disc with c .i.f. 
value above Rs. 2 lakhs. 


881. 3900 


90 . 10 


( vill) Advance/ retard signal 
gonorator. 

874 . 8309 
(1x ) Rovorberatlon unrt . 874 .8309 
(x ) Room simulator unit . 874 . 8309 
(x ) Nolso gato . 

- 874 . 8309 


90 . 28 
90 . 28 
90 . 28 


881, 3900 


90 . 10 


(17) Sound clxing equipment. 
(18) 16 mm Dual/ Tripple Dubber . 
(19) 16 mm Optical recorders . 


881 . 3900 


90 . 10 


90 .28 


881. 3900 


90 . 10 


(xt ) Compressor/Limitor. 


881. 3900 


90 . 101 


881. 3900 


90 . 10 


(32 ) Film Editing maching of 

dat-bod typo costing moro 
than Rs. 1.5 lakh c .1.1. 


881. 3900 


90 . 10 


881. 3900 


90 , 10 


764 , 2001 


83 . 14 


(20 ) Optical offects and trick print 

ing macbinc ( 16 mm ). 
( 21) 16 mm colour processing 

plants . 
( 22 ) 16 mm Xenop or arc projec 

tors with a throw of 60 feet or 
more for the theatrical studio / 

laboratory ugo . 
(23) Automtio or soml- automatic 

film developing and process 
ing machinca with micro proce 
cowor based syston . 


(33) High quality studio condon 

gor tulcrophono. 
( 34 ) foot operated Alm apllcora/ 

bot splicors . 
(35 ) Loop cabloot or loop troo . 


1881. 2102 


90 . 08 


881 . 3900 


90 , 10 


881. 3900 
881. 3900 


90 . 10 
90 .10 


(36 ) Perforation ropair machino . 


881 . 3900 


90 . 10 


(24) Editing machines 16 mm , 

33 mm , and 70 mm or com 
blood (oxcluding flat bed type) 


881 . 3900 


90 . 10 


$ 81 . 3900 


90 . 10 


Programmo Tape preparation 
system for use with Colour 

Alm printing Machines , 
(38 ) Equipment for frame count 

queing for uso with Colulr 
Film Printing Machinos . 


( 25) Notcblog machines. 


881 . 1900 


90 . 10 


881. 1000 


90 . 10 


(26) High Spood tampoction pro 

Joctor. 


881 .2102 


50 .08 


( 21 ) Aleh spood 33 mm , 70 mm 

And 16 mm royonible prol 
How equipment 


9 ) Automatio / somi-automatic 

Plim doveloping processing 
and pripting machines with 
coloro processor based system 
for atill colour photography 
for Photographlo Studio , 


881 ? 107 


881 . 79020 


90 . 00 


( 28 ) Animation camera with atta 

cbmonts and accessories . 


881. 2102 


90 . 08 


9 Te laudius 
( 1 ) Toa bao naobldonon -bear 

sala paper baga IMA and / or 
otbcr malo . 


(29 ) Colour filtors, glass, golating 

and acetato. 


884 . 11 


- 


90 . 01 


143. 2209 


84 . 19 


1 


764.2001 


(30 ) Nock tio micropholo /cordless 

microphone 
58 GI/ 85 – 8 . 


85. 14 


fel hag michino for 101- 
paper bigs. 


745 . 2209 


$ 4 , 19 


106 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I- SEC. 1] 


APPENDIX 1 PART- B - Conid . 


ITC - Rev . 2 OCCN Code 

Cody 


128 .4809 


84 . 59 


(14) Motallisation plant or Motal 

spraylag equipment for plas 

tio film capaoltori 
(15) Automatio welding machino 

for tormination of plastio Alm 
capaciton (Metalllaod And 
foll types). 


937 . 3219 


84 . 11 


flor . 


874 .8302 


90 . 28 


( 16 ) Largo soroen aligomont Orol 

lloscope/ Polyscopo . 
(17) Automatio Tape Wraping Ma 

chloo for Plastlo Fllo Capa 
oltors . 


728 .4809 


84 . 99 


8) Dip Coating oqulpmont for 

Capaolton . 


728 . 4809 


84. 50 


726.7109 


84 . 36 


9 ) Automatio printing/Marking 

equipment. 
(20 ) Automatlo tostlag machine 

for capacitors with any of the 
following test fuqotions i 
(1) Capacitanco . 
(1 ) Tan Delta . 


90 .28 


874 . 83 


90 . 28 


874 .83 


90 . 28 


874 . 83 


90 . 28 


874 . 83 


(111) Ħ . F. Impodanoc. 
(*v) Loakage ourrent. 

(v) Insulation Roslatadoo . 
(21) Leakage Tester for Hermeti 

cally Sealed Film Capacitors , 


90 . 28 
90 . 28 


ITC - Rov . 2 CCCN Coda 

Code 
(3) Code printing machinery. 726 . 7109 84 . 35 
10 . (1) Machinery for manufacture of electronic components 

and equipment. 
( 1) Contral sigoal wwoop rystem 

comprising of 
(a) R.F . Distribulon Ampll 

874 . 8309 90 . 28 
(6) Accessories. 
(1) Attenuators. 

874 . 8309 90 .28 
( II) Marker Adder. 874 . 8309 90 . 28 

(III) Signal distributor. 874 . 8309 90 . 28 
(c) Current probon . 

874 .8309 90 . 28 
(d ) Voltage probes. 

874 . 8309 90 . 28 
(2 ) VHF and UHF Swoop 

Generator (manual auto 

matic channel selection ). . 874 . 8309 90 . 28 
(3) Video IF Swoop Generator -- 
with Marker Gonorator. 

874 . 8309 
(4 ) Central sigan ) supply for TV , 

Tosting Comprising of - 
(a ) TV Synoh Generator, 

Test Generator, Tost 

Pattern Generator/ 
- Fuaction Gonorator, 864 . 8309 90 . 28 
(b ) Modulator 

764 . 3001 

86 . 15 
(c ) Transmitter 

764 . 3001 85 . 15 
( ) High precision oyoletting ma 

chines with automatio foed 
mochanism for oyclots with 
shank dia . loss than 0 .065* 
for contact Assembly . 

736 . 7309 , 84 . 45 
(6 ) High precision somi-automa 

tlo rivetting machines for oon 
taot assembly with riyot shank 

dla . loss than 0 . 125 ". 736 . 7301 84 . 45 
(7) Compression rlvotters with 
qulok roturd mochanism ." 736 . 9301 

84 .45 
(8) Capacitanco dlacharge wold 

ding daobioos with power 
supply and wold -hoad with 
madruni onergy sotting upto 
300 watt secondo muitable for 

proplous metal welding , 937 . 3219 85.11 
(9 ) Hot- tip twooxer weldor for 

gpoolal contact soldering using 
proformed solder . 

737. 3219 
85. 11 
( 10 ) Miniature pneumatio /clootrical 

tablo mounting offset printing 
maohlnog for product print 
log. 

726 .7109 84 . 35 
( 11 ) Loak tester and or vibration 
taito . 

874 . 8919 90 . 28 
(12) Automatic coll or foil wloding 
naohino. 

928. 4809 84 .69 
(13 ) Temporaturo Cycling progra 

mamed Hoat- treatment Oven 
for heat stabilisation of pro 
fossional grado plastic film 
cid citors 

741 . 3103 * 83 . 11 


894 . 83 


874 . 83 


90 . 28 


89 , 11 


84 , 59 


83 , 11 


84 . 59 


(22 ) Automatic solder dipplog ma 

chino with programmed foods. 737 . 3221 
( 23 ) Automatio Bar cut-off with 
stripper attachment. 

728. 4809 
Automatlo lead welding ma 
chinos with programmed lead 
Assembly stations and auto 

matio soldos adopter station , 737, 3219 
(25) Automatic Terminal Capping 
machine. 

728 .4809 
(26 ) Automatic Resistance value 

performing machine by helix 
cutting . 

728 . 4809 
(27) Colour coding machine with 
auto foodor. 

728. 4809 
(28) Distortion Anaylsor. 

874 .8309 
(29) VHF/UHF Modulator. 874 . 8309 
(30 ) WOW & Flutter Motors. 874 .8309 
(31) WOW & Flattor Wave Analysen . 874 . 8309 
(32 ) WOW & Flutter Callbraton . 874 . 8309 
(33) Torque Gauges /Metara 874 . 2109 
(34) Tension Motors . 

894 . 2109 


84 . 59 


84 . 59 
90 . 28 
90 .28 


90 . 28 


90 . 28 
90 . 28 
90 . 16 
90 . 16 


(35 ) Nola Motor /Nota level motor ) 

Sound level motor . 


874 . 8309 


90 . 28 


[ MI 1] 


भारत का राजपक्ष : बसाधारण 


107 


PLUS 


. 


. 


APPENDIX I PART-B -- Conid . 
ITC-Rov.2 OCCN Code . 

Code 


ITC -Rev . 2 CCCN Code 

Code 


(36 ) Automatio Slooving and /or 

Assembly machine for capacit 


(60 ) Preobgloo digital RMS muld 

meters and volt motor (61 di 
glta and above ). 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


90 . 28 


874 . 8301 
874 . 8309 


utomatio Stitcher and /or 
Windør for olootrolytio capaol 
ton . 


728 . 4809 


874 .8309 


728 . 4809 


( 61) Float Tono and cso Chra 

lasld crystal growth oquip 
mont for growing fomicon 

duotor single crystal. 
(62 ) Bpltarlal roactors for dopogle 

tion of somi- Conductor ma 
torials . 


84 . 59 


(38 ) Poat millivoltmotor. 
(39 ) Q Motor. 
(40 ) Induotance Motor. 
(41) Frequonoy syathozot . 
(42 ) Stereo multiplex gonorators. 


874 . 8309 


84 . 99 
90 . 28 
90 . 28 
90 .28 
90 .28 
90 . 28 


728 . 4809 


874 . 8309 
874 . 8309 


84 . 89 
90 . 10 


(63 ) Micro Alm pripting machino 


881. 39 


874 , 8309 


881 , 11 


90 .01 


(43 ) Hotrodyno Voltmeter . 


874 . 8309 


90 . 28 


(64) Stop and ropeat camera . 
(69) Laser trimmers . 
(66 ) Steroozoom mlaroscope . 


728 . 4809 
871 . 0409 


84 59 
90 . 12 


(44 ) Wave soldorlog/ flow older 

Ing /ro - flow goldorlog /drag 
poldorlag rystoms/machino . 


928 . 4809 


84 . 59 


( 61) Spiralling machinc/ groove 

cutting machino for resistors 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


728 . 4800 


84 . 39 


( 68 ) Dio Bondors and /or wiro 

bondon for som - conductor 
manufacturo . 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


737 . 32 


83 . 11 


(69 ) Wafer soribors or alicors or 

sewing machings or wafor 
facturor or any combination 
of those 


874 ,8309 


90 . 28 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


874 . 8309 


90 . 28 


(70 ) Diffusion furgaoo for semi 

conductor manufacturo . 


741 .3103 


83. 11 


874 .8309 
874 . 8309 


90 . 28 
90 .28 
90 .28 
90 . 28 


( 71 ) Conveyor belt furnaco for 

manufacture of cormet poton 
tiomotors , thick film micro 
olroults or semi-conductors. 


741. 3103 


85 . 11 


874 . 8309 
874. 8309 


(72 ) Wafor processing and marking 

oqulpmont for photo resist 
coating , sploning , oxposure , 
alignment, baking and dove 
lopmont for gomiconductor 
manufacture . 


728 . 4809 


( 49) Automatio wiro cutting , and 

stripping machino with or 

withoutwalding attachment. 
(46 ) Temporaturo controlled sold 

oring Iroda 
( 47) High Accuracy LCR Bridges 

(0 .01 % and above tolerance ) 
(48) Frequenoy / Wave / Spootrum 

Analyser 
(49) AC /DC Standarda /Sources. 
(30 ) Multimator Callbraton . 
(51) Docade Rondatanco Standards. 
(52) Noise gonoratorsall typos. 
(53) Turn tablos for polar mon 

gurement. 
(54 ) Artiflolal cars /artificial mar 

told . 
(5 ) Carbon and /or metal/cormet 

traok welting /coating machine 
(50 ) Automatic Vacuum ovator , ova 

porator including Electron 
Beam Evaporation system , 
Sputtering uolt, hoat aided 
oogter for dopositing various 
metal films, motal oxldo Allmy 

and Photo -reist films. 
(30 Leser helling machine . 
(58 ) Auto -capping machine , 
(59 ) Automatio machino for ro 

dators with one or more of 
the following functions viat 
(a ) Load welding . 
(0 ) Lacquorlog . 
( a ) Tosting , 

0 Colour podlog . 
(0) 7 Sorting . 

Pacldoe . 


899 . 6100 


90 , 19 


84 . 59 


728 .4809 


84 . 59 


(73) Curvo trucor for displaying 

semi-conductor device charac 
torlatics . 


874 .8309 


90 .28 


( 74) Automatic testing or brand 

marking or taping machines 
or any combination of those. 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


728 . 4809 


( 75) Automatic or goml-automatio 

sorter and / or handler for 
transistors , integrated circuits , 
diodes and capacitors, 


84 . 99 
84 . 39 
84 . 59 


128 . 4809 


728 . 4809 


84 , 59 


128 , 4809 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


(70) (a ) Splo ddors/rlaser drlers . 
( ) scrubbing machlao for 

waforo . 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


( c) Ro- ribblog maobino for 

printod oircuit boarda . 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


728. 4809 


84 . 99 


(77) Wafor and /or mask Inspection 

oqulpmont, includlag wafer 
probors and toston . . 


728 .4809 


84 . 39 


108 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I- - Sec. 1)? 


APPENDIX 1 PART- I - contd . 


ITC -Rø . 2 CCCN Code 


ITC - Roy , CCCN Code 

Costa 


Code 


(18 ) Roslativity type measuring and 

or sorting oquipment for 

ilicon wafons usod in soml 
conductor manufacturor. 


(99) Agoing 

machino . 


and /or 


roforming 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


728 . 4809 


84 . 39 


(96) Blootrolyto Impregoatlog 

oquipment for capaciton . 


728.4809 


84 . 59 


(99) (0 ) Automatio capacitanco 

voltage measuremont 

oqulpmont. 
( 6 ) Junction profilon for 
Bemi-conductor manufacturer 


874 . 8309 


90 . 28 


(97) Automatio / somi-automatio 

opoxy resin Injector illor / 
encapsulating oquipment) 
microdispensing oqulpmont. 


728 . 4809 


84 . 39 


$ 28 . 4809 


84, 59 


(80 ) Spotplating machine for somi 

conductor manufacturo / load 
frama . 


728 . 4809 


84 . 39 


( 98) Forood alr or loort atmos 

pharlo bydrogop or yacuum 
baking/aintering Ovono for 
8 omi- conductors , capacitor 
& cloctronic tuber mapu 
(acturo . 


( 81 ) Metallurgical motoroscopo for 

Koml conductor manufacture 
(Magotication equal to or 
greater than 400 ) 


941. 3103 


84 . 11 


871. 0301 


20 . 11 


(82) Plasma etchen and/or wafor 

otoblog machine for dry or 
spray otoblog of allicon wafors 


(99 ) Atmosphoro controlled fur 

nacos with tray convoyanco 
for forritos , lootroo tubo and 
oa paator manufacturos 


78 . 8600 


89. 22 


741. 3102 


85. 11 


(83 ) Silicon wafer lapping or grio 

ding or abraiding or odgo pro 
Aling machines or any combi 
nation of these 


(100 , Puridriors for somloonductor 

Manufacture. 


741. 6019 


84 . 17 


128 . 4809 


84 . 39 


(101) Touting and monsurlag Instru 

monts for loud spoakors and 
other audio oqulpmont, con 
Blating of ono or moro of tho 
following 


( 84 ) Sorcon printing machine for 

soroen printing on coramic & 
dleloctric substratos or allicon 
wafers, used in themanufactu 
turo of ceramic capacitors , 
mica capacitors , semiconduc 
tors : cermot potentiomotort 
or thiok film micro - olroults. 


(a ) Loyol chart rooordor. 
(6 ) High quality calibratod 

oondonsor mloro - phono 
with stand . 


28 . 4809 


84 . 34 


874 . 8309 


90 . 28 


(85) Monitor for platod thlokogu 

or vapour deposited thickoca 


874 , 3 


90 . 28 


(c) Sino random gonerator. 
(d ) Gating syntom . 
(.) Rasponse tost uolt. 


728 . 4809 


84 . 39 


741 , 3103 


85 . 11 


V Spotium Analyvor. 
6 ) Hotrodyno adaly or witby 

Wrochatod filter 


874 . 8309 


(86 ) Ion Implantation machine for 

doping somi-conductors. 
(87 ) Tomparatore cycling and on 

vironmental oven for boat 
stabilisation of electrondo 

compononte . 
(88) First Roduoton Camera (up 

to 50 reduction ). 
(89) Transfer moulding proga 

(Hydraulic ) for translators , 
diodos, integrated circuits and 
other somicondutor dovloos. 


90 . 28 


881 . 11 


90 . 01 


( 102) 


Phago motor. 


874 ,8309 


00 . 28 


(103 ) Sound Transfor Equipment 

Magnotto to optical, tapo to 
tapo and tapo to disc with 
o .ff. value abave Bu 2 lakhs. 


736 . 2809 


84 . 45 


778 . 8600 


83.22 


(90 ) Lifo test equipment for somi 

conductor manufacture. 


874 .8309 


83 . 22 


178 . 8600 


90 . 28 


128 . 4809 


(104 ) Sound mixing omulponnt. 
(103) Programmable walor for 

dioda . 
( 106 ) Photo copeator with pro 

dlated covoamental chambn 


84 .89 


928 . 4809 


84 .99 


881 . 8900 


20 . 10 


(91 ) Axial lead straightoor and/or 

Korter . 
(92) Oxygon mooltor to modoro 

oxygon In gasca Vaod lo pomal 
conductor device manufacture 
with sensitivity 300 com o 

hottor 
(93 ) Rotary /Osotiating funct 

for forritca 


(1071 Plaams deportia . yulero . 


TQG 4909 


R14 . 4001 


90 . 26 


( 108 ) Dont Layel Huapitor /tam 

hood. / dunt proolpitatori . 


143 , 2009 


$ 4 . 18 


341. 3103 


84. 14 


(94) 


Ultrasonic welding Rechtsp 
laçludlog plastic waldey free 
electrono l AD10004 & . 


( 109 ) Isothermal Magffotic Hoat 

Troatmont furnace for Alnico / 
Cast Alloy Pormanont Mag 
nets . 


737 3221 


85 . 11 


741.3102 


85 . 11 


भारत का राजपत : असाधारण 


109 


APPENDIX I PART-B -- Conid . 


ITC -Rev. 2 CCCN Code 

Code 


ITC -Rev. 2 COCN Code 

Code 


874 .8309 


90 . 28 


(110 ) High precision bydraulic 

prosses with variablo gtops 
and variable capacity upto 3 
tons suitablo for mounting on 
assonably tabla 


(134) Watch crystal quality factor 

tostor , 
(135) Mloroprocou or controllod 

auto tomparaturo charactor 

tostor . 
( 136 ) Quartz watch analysor. 


128 . 4809 


84. 59 


874 , 4029 
$ 74 . 8039 


90 . 23 
90 . 28 


(111) Direct and back geared minla 

toro punoh proses sultablo 
for mounting on angombly 
table 


736 .2301 


728 , 4809 


84 . 59 


(137) Mask oloaner for somiconduc 

tor manufacturo . 
(138 ) Magosonlo oleanor for noml 

condutor manufacturo . 


728 .4809 


84 . 59 


728 . 4809 


84. 59 


( 112 ) Automatho tomperaturo con 

trolled proglaion moulding 

proga for encapsulation . 
( 113) Diamond Cutting Macbino 

on Motal, 
(114) Automatio /Somni- Automatla 

Tab making/Sotting Machtoo. 


736 . 1604 


84 . 43 


(139 ) Formlag oquipmont suitablo 

for anodlo forming of 500 mm 
250 mm wido otchod alumi 
mlum foil completo - with 
standard accougories . 


728 . 4809 


84, 39 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


(115 ) Automatic /Somi-automatio 

Curling Machine 


728 . 4809 


84, 39 


(116 ) Automatio /Sal-automatio 

Cuttar. 


(140 ) Spoolal tosting & calibration 

oquip out for Olootropio milk 
analysers , including calibra 
tor , milk -o -tostar, Homogoni 
Har Tostar , Cuvotto Tostar 
aod Blootronco clrouit Toytor . 


881 . 3900 


90 . 10 


874 , 8309 


90 . 28 


(119) Automatio/ Soml-Automatio 

Suttor . 


881. 3900 


90. 10 


(118 ) Wlio forming Machlno for 

Coramo Capaciton . 


928 . 4809 


84 . 49 


( 141) Instruments for aloctronio 

industry, the following in 
( ) Piold strength motor / 

fald lovol motor . 


874 , 8309 


90 .28 


€119) Papumatlo scrow drivers / 

Pneumatio PCB Load cutters. 


749 . 1109 


84 . 49 


( 120 ) Pontod Ciroul Board Post 

Soldering - Load Trimming 
Machina . 


(11) Colour Analyser /whito 

balance obookor /whito 

balano tostor. 
(IU ) Dogausstoy coul . 


874 , 8309 
874 . 3 


90 . 28 
90 . 


937 . 3221 


86 . 11 


(121 ) Vibration Tout-Maohinc . with 

Auto -Frequoio Changa , 


874 . 8309 


90 . 28 


874 . 8309 


928 . 4809 


04 . 19 


(122) Load Forming Machines for 

Blectronlo Componentu . 
( 123) Thermal Wire Stripping 

Equipment. 


(lv ) Colour purity motor , 
( v) Roous ohooker 


- 90 . 28 

90 . 28 


874 .830S 


728 .4809 


84 . 19 


( 124 ) PCB Load Cuttag & Bondtag 

tools , Pnoumatoally or olo 
trically operatod . 


874 . 8309 
874 .8309 
874 , 8309 
874 , 8309 


90 . 28 
90 .28 
90 .28 
90 . 28 


745. 1109 


84 , 49 


874 . 8309 


(125) Colour TV Pattern Gonorator 
( 120) Colour Synthealer. 


90 . 28 
90 , 28 


874 . 8309 


874 . 8309 


. 


90 . 28 


(vi) Video Test signal Testor . 
( vii ) Wave foto monitor , 
( vil ) Vootropoope. 
( LX ) Digital LCR Bridgo . 
( I ) Standard sgaal gangra 

tor /Hource . 
( 21) Distortion morguratoon 

control volt 
( U ) Pbar dolay uolt. . 
(Hill) Network analysors 
( v) Mlorowave (Woap penal 

Honoraton . 


(127) Vidoo Kapon 

(Burt Georator). 


fontos 


$ 74 . 8309 


90 . 28 


874 ,8309 
874 . 8309 
874 . 8309 


90 . 26 
90 . 28 
90 .26 


(125) Lumota . 


$ 0 . 28 


814 . 4029 


(130) Charactor Generator, 


874 . 8309 


90 . 28 


778 . 8400 


(131 ) Hand Crimping Tools . 


695 . 3919 


82 , 04 


(142 ) Wire wrapping tools , 


743 , 1109 


w 85. 22 

84 . 49 
% 0 . 27 


(132 ) Blank cloaning & 

system , 


otching 


728.4809 


84.59 /85.17 


1143) Stroboscope 


873 , 2011 


(133) automatic cold wold scaling 

equipments with high vacuum 
system . 


( 146 ) Calandorlag ochla # or 

magento tono Industry with 

ola . 


728 . 4809 84 .59 /58 .11 


743 2171 


110 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


( PART I - SEÇ . 11 


APPENDLX 1 PART- B - Conid . 


ITC- Rev. 2 CCCN Code 

Code 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


728 . 4809 


84 . 39 


17C - Rov. 2 OCCN Code 

Coda 
(166) Somloonductor load frumo/ 

Heador handiing oqulpmont/ 
attachments locludfog those 
for uso with bondors. 

728 .4809 84 . 39 
(167) Automatio , somal-automatio 
toat oquipment for Solar Colla . 878 . 4809 

90 . 28 
(168 ) Surge tastor for power dovico . 874 . 8919 

90 . 28 
(169 ) Optioal dogguring oquipment 

for Inspection of grids, ontho 
dou, miorowave ovitios ato . 
for manufacture of alectron 

728. 4809 84 . 39 
(170 ) High vacuum loak dotootor 

(holium ) including portablo 
typo for mapufacture or olac 
trom tuba . 

874 .8309 90 . 28 


728 , 4809 


( 145) Semi-automatio /Automatio 

component logortion machine 
for PCB s assembly with 

40003Orlos . 
(146) Component caplog machino 

with accessorios , 
(147 ) Dosoldering maghino/tool 

for romoving of components 

from PCB . 
(148) Magnetlo tapo coating plant 

with /without calondering me . 

chlao and with /without dryar . 
(149) Oscilloscopo calibration 

system , 
(150 ) In - alrcuit compopont testing 

machino. 
(151 ) Cold chamber mlow 30°C 

god balow , 


14 . 59 


728 , 4809 


84 ,59 


tubos . 


874 .8309 


90 . 28 


874 . 8309 


90 . 28 


741. 4019 


84 . 15 


( 171) Vortical and horizontal glass 

working lathos for manu 
facture of alootron tubou . 


728 . 1100 


84 . 40 


728 .4809 


84 . 59 


(172 ) High spood proollon pross 

for tho maqufacturo of magno . 
tla hoads for olotronio lo 
dustry . 


736 . 2829 


84 . 45 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


( 173 ) Automatio handling and sor 

ting machine for capacitors . 


744.2809 


84. 22 


(174 ) Bulk orasar machloe for mag 

patio hoad . 


928 . 4809 


84. 99 


728 . 4809 


84 . 39 


(152) Semi-automatio maabing for 

insortlog load scrow into 
potontiomotor housing for 

potootfomotors . 
(153) Somi- automatio machine for 

Assembling oovor to potontio 

motor treaks. 
(134) Semi-automatic and auto 

matlo torminal pla forming 
and / or gonbling maching 

for potentiomaters. 
(155) Vapour dogroasdog for oloan 

Ing of compodong . 
(136 ) Surface roughnous testar . 
(137) Thicknoon tortor for measur 

Ing tho driod pript thlakoon 
of oormat prints wod in tho 
naguraoturo of potontio 
motort and tblok dlm mloro 

afroufts. 
(158) Viscosity Dotar 
(159 ) Maching for rotation of 

potontiomotor shaft durlog 
torting 


(175 ) Blootroštatlo opoxy coating 

mach /Do for manufacturo of 
DC Micromotort . 


728 , 4809 


728 , 4809 


84 . 59 


84 . 59 
90 . 16 


874 , 2109 


736 . 2829 


84 . 45 


(176 ) Laminating proud for manu 

froturo of multilayor PCB . 
M17) Hydraulic blaoking machine 

for magufucture of DC micro 
motor , 


36 . 2309 


874 . 2109 
894. 4009 


16 , 90 
90 . 23 


(178 ) Cold Walding machine for 

welding omnium folle for 
manufacture of plectrolytta 

capaciton . 
(119 ) Multi-aldo poaching and 

forming mobno . 


737 . 3219 


85 . 11 


128 .4809 


84 . 39 


736 . 2301 


84 . 45 


480 ) Vibro enor malli for Death 

facture of fortitet . 


728 , 4809 


84 . 89 


128 . 4809 


84 .39 


(181) Attrittor for maoutoture of 

forritos . 


728 . 4809 


728.4809 


84 . 59 


(182 ) Hystorslo loop tracer 

manufacturo of fartite . 


for 


874 . 8309 


90 . 28 


(160 ) Solvent coating equipmooi 

wod for final ogling of 
Potanglomet vnd thick an 

mloro -alroalt peokamann 
(161) Hot uir lovolliug oqulpmoci 

for PCB productlon . 
( 162) Etching system completo with 

otoboni rogodoration 10 - 1100 
Ink removal and washing for 

PCB production . 
( 163 ) Magnotlo motor for toning of 

Maguotio tapoi , 
( 184) Strippar for PCB production . 
(165) Optical luspotloo ntation for 

(n -provoso luspaction of tomi 
conductor chở , đave vnd 
Imed frumo . 


928 . 4809 


84 . 39 


128. 4809 


874 , 8309 
$ 28 . 4809 


20 , 21 
$ 4 . 39 


(183) Doublo aloo grinding machino 

for manufacture of forritoo . 
( 184 ) CNC utomat , bar capacity 

Opto 25 tom , for napofac 
tora of condoctott , relays of 
twitches . 


738 . 1302 


14 . 49 


(183) Thlok aim prlator for som 

gondot manufactore . 


128. 4809 


84 . 39 


128 . 4809 


31, 99 


(HNIT1] 


भारतका राजपत : असाधारण 


111 


* 1 _ 


w 


APPENDLX I PART- B - Conid . 


ITC-Rev . 2 CCCN Code 

Cado 


17C -Rev . 2 @ CCN Code 

Code 


(186) Automatlo pbotolithograpby 

Inspection station for Semi 
conductor manufacture , 


( 207) Temperaturo test system for 

manufacture of piozo electric 
crystals. 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


874 . 4029 


90 . 25 


( 187) Somi-automatic /automatic 

work holders /handlors and 
accessories forsoml-conductor 
manufacturo . 


(208 ) Vacuum annealing oyen for 

piezo eloctric oi ystal matu 
facture , 


741 .3102 


85 . 11 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


(209 ) Automatic lapping controller. 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


(188 ) Thormel resistance testors for 

saml-conductof manufacturo . 


874 . 4029 


90. 23 


(210) X -ray goolometer . 


(189 ) Soml conductor load frama/ 

hoader bandilog equlpmont) 
attachments including those 
for use in bonders , for somi 
dondootor manufacture. 


(211 ) Automatlo blank sortor for 

piezo eleotrio crystal manu 
facturo . 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


728. 4809 


84 . 39 


(190 ) Trippla roll main for magu 

fagturo of potontlomotors. 


(212 ) Exhaust oquipment (pumping 

system ) foi electron tubo 
manufacture . 


728 . 4809 


84 . 99 


728. 4809 


84 . 59 


(213) Angeline 
.com 


(213) Automatic head tinning 

machine /automatic ond tin 
ning machino . 


728. 4809 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


84 , 59 


(191) Board cropplog or tagging 

maobldo for manufacturo of 

potentlomotort. 
(192 ) Wipor wire straightoning 

machine for manufacture of 
potentiometors . 


(214 ) Doonde capaoltanoe standard . 


728 ,4809 


84 . 59 


(215 ) Automatio apacitance oor 

rootion machine . 


728. 4809 


84 , 59 


(193 ) Wiper forming machine for 

manufacture of potentio 
metors , 


928.4809 


84 . 59 


(216 ) Automatio resistor bodies 

sorting roachines. 


728 . 4809 
874, 8309 


84 . 39 
90 . 28 


(217) 


Third harmonio taster , 


(194 ) Infra -red radiant dryers for 

Manufacture of potentio 
motors. 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


( 218) Automatic / semi- automatic 

carbon track and terminal 
assembly machine . 


728 .4809 


84 , 59 


(195) Soalaot dispensing unit for 

manufacturo of potanto 
motors . 


728.4809 


84 . 59 


(219 ) Stacking or aligatug or glueing 

machine for electronic com 
ponont manufacture . 


928 .4809 


84 . 59 


( 196 ) Sand mill for manufacture of 

magnetio tape . 


728 . 4809 


84 . 39 


(220 ) Automatic welding or coating 

or stampiog machine for 
Dormet variable resistor. . 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


728 .4809 


84 . 59 


(197) Slurry mixer for manufac. 

facture of magnetio tape. 
(198) Slurry agitator for manu 

facture of magnetic tape . 


928 . 4809 


84 . 59 


(221 ) Automatic rider bloot anscm 

bling macbide for onet 
variably roslator. 


728 .4309 


84 . 59 


728 .4309 


84 , 39 


(222 ) Swoop oscillator. 


874 . 8309 


90 . 28 


( 199 ) Floppy diso jaoket folding 

machine. 
(200 ) Floppy dino punohing 

Dachine . 


728 . 4809 


84, 39 


( 223 ) Rohury dlp testar of globule 

tastor for populated PCB 
tasting 


728 . 4809 


$4 , 59 


(201) Ultrasonlo foaling system for 

floppy diskottos . 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


( 224 ) RI attenuator. 


974 . 8309 


96 , 28 


(202) Lap cutting or multflado 

wafering maching . 


928 . 4809 


84 . 59 
84 .59 


( 223 ) Octavo filter with or without 

Amplifier and or Rocordor 
Attachments , 


NSC 


90 . 10 


(203 ) Quartz crystal slicing maqbino. 


728 . 4809 


(11) Mlec. CG Items the folowlog - 


( 204) Bovelling equipment for 

manufacturo of piozo electric 
crystal . 


84. 39 


874 . 8309 


928. 4809 


84. 59 


(1 ) Erogonimically designod 

station for addombly of 
magnollo heado . 


(203) Automktia test rytten 

orgatal Altor . 


for 


894 . 8309 


91 . 28 


874 8309 


( 2 ) Gap Interract and headpa 

Allog process oqulpmont com 
ploto with acconsorice for 
magneto beads. 


90 . 16 
90 . 22 
90 . 28 


( 200 ) Automatio frequouoy pladna 

Iratce . 


128 , 4806 


84 


3 


112 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART 1- Sec . 11 


APPENDIX I PART- B - Conia . 


ITC -Rov. 2 OCCN Code 
Coca 


17C -Rov. 2 CCCN Code 


Cord 


(3 ) Playback or arase or rocord 

and playback tost station 
complete with accessories for 
magnetic heads. 


874 .8309 


90 . 10 


(12 ) Light sources for cameras and 

plate making , with or with 
out built-in vacuum printing 
frames and microprodossor 
based exposurg units , such as 
Xenon Metal Halides, Mer 
cury halidcs , but oncluding 
arc lamps . 


(4 ) Automatic or semi-automatic 

moulding machine with /with 
out pulp beater for manu 
facturo of paper conos for 
loud speakers comploto with 
accessories, 


178 . 2209 


85 , 20 


874 . 8309 


84 . 33 


( 13 ) Four colour and above fout 

colour sheet -fed Offset prin 
ting machines . 


726 ,7109 


84 . 35C 


(9 ) Lambrating press for manu 

facture of multilayer printed 
circuit boards . 


(14) Anti set-off devlocs. 


726 . 7209 


84 . 35D 


874 .8309 


84 , 47 


(6 ) Cleaning equipment with 

vapour dcgrcasing and ultra 
ground cleaning system , 


(15) Registration systems inclu 

ding pre - press registration 
systems for Offset prloting 
machine. 


874 .8309 


84 . 59 


726 . 7209 


84 .33 


881. 3900 


90 . 10 


11 . Proting Machinery. 
( 1 ) Electronic colour scanner 

with or without chromograpb , NA 


NA 


( 16 ) Hand fed wax /ilm coaters . 
( 17) Web - fed bigh spucd letter 

press rotary and Offset rotary 
printing machines having out 
put of more than 35 , 000 con 
posite Impressions or copies 
per hour . 


( 2 ) High precision Auto focus, 

Auto exposure , computoriscd 
Progoss Cameras and Process 
Enlargers. 


881. 1100 


90 OT 


(18 ) Automatic sheet couoting and 

tab- inserting equipmcat. 


726 . 7209 


84 . 33 


(3) Graphic Blon /plate /paper pro 

cessors . 


881 . 3900 


90 . 10 


(4 ) Step and repoat machines 

cameras . 


881 . 3900 


90 . 10 


726 . 7209 


84 . 33 


(19 ) Direct platomaking camoras 

and systems for Offget plate 

making . 
( 20 ) Electronic Image Assombly 

and page make up systems. 


( 9 ) Reflection /tT40smission 

densitomcten . 


type 


90 . 25 


726 , 7209 


84 , 35 


874 .4009 


(6 ) Pre - press proofing system 

and flat- bed proof presses 
other than Rotary sheet 
fod -offset prloting machines . 


( 21) Cam and Cam Shaft Monsur 

ing Machine for inspoction 
Manually operatod with digit 
tal read -out/automatically 
operated with computer Cop 
trol. 


726 . 7101 


84 . 35C 


874 . 2109 


90 . 22 


(7) Mochanical bot notat line 

casting /composing machine 
with built -in or separate key 
boards . 


12 . (1) Food prochaing machines, 

the following 


726 . 3119 


84 , 34A 


(1 ) Frut and vegetablou outting , 

coring , oubing , sllalng , food 
Ing , oloartng /counovine , stom 
romoving machina . 


127. 2209 


84 , 30 


( 8 ) Book binding machinery for 

Hard Cover & Paper back 
binding including automatic 
folding machines , collating 
machines , adhosivo binding 
machines , saddle Stitching 
machines, book Sewing 
Machines , Case making 
machinery, Embosslog 


90 . 28 


874 . 8919 
NA 


NA 


(2) Portable paokage loal tester. 
(3 ) Fill bolght dotector. 
(4 ) Automatic bottlo labellog 

machlo ospedally for spoola ) 
Hapo bottlo . 


Machines . 


126 . 8100 


84 . 32A 


143 . 2202 


84 . 19 


(9 ) Fully programued paper cut 

ting machine and throa kuife 
triancro . 


125 . 2001 


84 . 33A 


Macarool, noodlo , sphagot , 
VormIODII and other pasto pro 
dooy mgpufacturing maohs 


127. 2203 


84 , 30 


( 10 ) Automatic pupchlog machico 

wiki sheet feeder (output 
3 , 000 sheets por hour and 
more ). 


726 . 7209 


84 . 35D 


Ticket and labol printing 
machines , other than offset 
with built- in -attachment for 
numboring and perforating, 


( 1) Most propagtog mooblory 1 
(1) Meat processing machines , 

such as mincing , deboning , 
mixing , cutting , chopping, 
flaking and skinning 
machincs (Industrial Types ). 


726 .7109 


84 . 36G 


727 . 2203 


84 . 30 


[ATTI- 


T 11 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


113 


- 


LL 


APPENDIX I PART- B - Contd . 


ITC -ley , 2 CCCN Code 

Code 
727 .2203 84, 30 


ITC - Rev. 2 

Code 
NSC 


CCCN 
Codo 
84 . 37 


(2) Moat Tondorising oquipment. 


(12 ) Fancy twisters for manu 

facture of loop yarn using 
filament yan for purposed 
of coro /blading. 


(3) Power jaws for cutting of 

bong in meats , 


727 . 2203 


84. 30 


( 4 ) Hamburgers & meat ball for 

ming machine . 


727 . 2209 


84 . 30 


127.2209 
727. 2209 


(3) Lines for battering and frying 

of meat Itoms. 


8. 30 
84. 30 


727 . 2209 


(6) Bquipment for production of 

Mochanical Deboned Meat 
(M . D .M .). 


727 . 2209 


84 . 30 


16 . Machinery for Jute Industry ! 
(1) Goods Spreader. 
(2) Jute Hard Wuste Card . 
(3) Jute Short Fibre Feeder . 
(4) Hopper Feodor. 
(5 ) Full Circular Finisher Card - 1 

(with five and a half pair 

rollers and above ). 
( ) High Speed Modern Juto 1st 

Drg . framo. 
(7 ) High Speed Modern Jute 2nd 


(7) Meat 

machino. 


Separator/deboning 


727 . 2209 


84 . 30 


(8 ) Automatic mout filling 

machine with automatic 

weighing arrangement. 
(9 ) Equipmont units for auto 

matic packaging of mcat 
portions in duplex cartons. 


w 


po framo. 


727 . 2239 


. .. 


84 . 30 


13. Sheep Sboaring machine. 


728 . 4809 


94 . 39 


749. 2009 


84 .61 


14. Fire extinguishing water dril ). 
13. Textile machinery the following : 
(1) Transfor printing machino. 
(2 ) Thormo prloting machino. 
(3 ) Mloro -Dugt Bxtraction Unit --- 

Improvod Typo . 


(8) High speed Modern Juto 3rd 

Drg. framo. 
(9 ) Ring Spinning Frame for 

juto . 
(10 ) Wrap yard Spinning framo 

for Juto . 
(11 ) Ring Twisting frame for 

juto. 


724 . 7419 


84 . 40F 


$ 24 . 7419 


84 , 40F 


(12 ) Modern High Speed Auto 

matic Cop Winding machino. 


743. 6009 


84 . 18 


NSC 


84 . 36 


Cordgoroy loomg and Canvas 
looms of 18 Oza . and abovo . 


724 . 3101 


84 . 37 


( 13 ) Modern High Spoed Auto 

matic Roll/ Cope Winder for 
juto . 


(5) ( ) Air lot and Wator Jot 

loom . . 


724. 31 


84 . 37 


(14) Doubling Machine for jute . 


(15) Juto pſocision Winders. 


(6 ) Other typos of xburtloles 

looms wlth red space 200 
low then 260 omg. 


724 .51 


84 . 37 


( 16 ) Modern Automatic High 

Spood Juto Loom ( Shuttlo 
loss or circular). 


(6) Foam Anishing muobloo. 


84 . 40 


724 . 7406 & 

.7407 


(17) High Spood Sack Outting 

machino. 


(7) Open Bod Spinning Machine . 


NSC 


84 , 37 


(18) High Spood Industrial Sow 

lng machine for juto . 


(8 ) Spuolal types of spinalaguna 

chinary for cottop /mau -inado 
Abro /worstod soctor sucb 03 
Alrjot aplanlag . Priction 
splooing , Wrap oploglog, and 
twistou aplanlag , 


( 19 ) Modern Cropping Machino. 


724 . 4329 


84 . 18 


( 20 ) Wldo Calonder macbloo for 

Juto . 


(9 ) Miro -yavdyolo /Oukh 

ng machine. 


124 . 94048 

. 7407 


(21) Baling press (hydraulic ). 


(10 ) Muldshod /multiphaso wooying 

machino , 


924 . 5129 


84 . 37 


(22 ) Modarn Limloating/ Coating 

Machino. 


(11) Fully automatic balo hand 

ling /plucking/ peeling/bending 
grab oquipments with micro 
processurs , 


(23 ) Tufling Machine for 

Carpota, 


fute 


1.4809 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


84 .59 


( 24 ) Modern Roll -up inachlov. 


114 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I- Sec , 1 ] 


APPENDIX 1 PART-B - Contd . 


ITC -Rev. 2 CCCN 

Codo Codo 
17. Machlaayfor 3 a food lodastry : 
(1) Processing unfts : 
(1) Scaler . 

727 . 2209 84 . 30 
(2 ) Skinnlag machine . 

127. 2209 84 . 30 


ITC -Rev. 2 OCON Coda 

Code 
(v ) Bøg and poultry procesing 
(1) Poultry processing plant. 

B88 grading and packing 
material oquipment. 
Bgg washing, broaking , liquid 728 . 4809 84. 39 
ogg pasturisation , homogoni 
sing , packing and froozing 
oquipangot. 


( 2 


127 . 2209 


84 . 30 


( 3 ) Moat separator/ dobonlag 

machino. 
(4 ) Smoking lips. 


18 . Packaging Machlnery : 


127 . 2209 


84 . 30 


(5) Lolino proposing equipments . 


127 . 2209 


84 . 30 


84 , 15 


(6) Plato Froozers 

727 . 2209 
(7) Spliting Machines 

727. 2209 
(8) Filtering Machines . 727.2209 
(9) Clam boiling. 

727 . 2209 
(10) Do-sholling Machines . 727. 2209 
(11) Weighing and scaling Machines. 727 .2209 


Part-I 
(1) Coatod / Laminated / Linod 

Carton — forming, Filling , 
Sealing /Coding | Marking 
Machinery -- Completo and 
fully automatic with or with 
out gas Flushing or Post 
Storilising - with maximum 
oporating speeds fy excon of 
90 packs /minuto . 


NSC 
NSC 
NSC 
NSC 


745 . 2209 


84. 19 


NSC 


(2 ) Rotoratable Pouch /Contalgor 

Systom - Including Pro 
Storllising/ Pastourising , Dry 
ing and Packaging includ 
ing Form , Fill, Scal, Codo/ 
Mark and Post Sterilising 
and / or cartoning. 


745 . 2209 


84 . 20 


( 1) Fiab Proconging 1 
(1) Fish xkloning , gutting and 

portioning machines . 


727 . 2209 


84 . 30 


(2) Bquipment units for automa. 

tlę packaging of Flab portion 
lo duplox cartons. 


( 3) Automatio Tray Forming , 

Fillog , Ladding /overwrapp 
ping, Coding /Marking 
Machloo fusing paper boards 
plastia Coated or laminated . 


145 . 2209 


84 . 19 


745 . 2209 


84 . 19 


(3 ) Pisblag Swivels . 


(4 ) MRchloo for Lid Sealine 

and/or Coding and Marking 
of Trays /Cups made from 
paper board / plastics/combi 
nations. 


745. 2209 


84 . 19 


(W ) Machinery and equipment for 

Freexlog, cold storago god ice 

planto : 
(1) Prawo prading machino . 


727 . 2209 


84 . 30 


745 . 2209 


( tv ) Machinery and equipment for 

canning plant : 


( 5) Stand Up Pouch system 

Comprising Form , Fill and 
Soal and / or Coding and 
Marking and /or Prostorilis 

ing/ Post -Storllising. 
(6) Form , Fill and SoalMachinos 

for Flexible Packaging 
Matorials with either vacuu . 
mising or Gas Flushing or 
both . 


- 


(1) Cookod 

machino. 


Prawn 


grading 


127 . 2209 


84 . 30 


943. 2209 


. 84 . 19 


(2 ) Automatlo moat Alling ma 

chloo with automatio wolgb 
Ing arrangement. 


143 . 2209 


84 . 19 


(7) Gas Flushing Machine for 

Floxlblo Packages with or 
without form , Fill, Seal, Codo 
or Marking facility . 


84 . 19 


(3 ) on Alling machino . 
(4 ) Sauce filing machino . 


743 .2209 
745 . 2209 


145 . 2209 


84 . 19 


84 . 19 


(8 ) Gas and Vacuuma Packaging 

System for Flexiblo Packag 
ing not covered at S . No . 6 
Abovo . 


(v) Machlvory and equipment for 

fsb maal plant : 


945 . 2209 


84. 19 


(9 ) Automatio Sabolling naobidos 

for 1 


745 .2209 


84 . 19 


Continuous Anb moal plant 
with oll rocovery unit com 
ploto whb finh chopper , doublo 
sorow pross, pulverisor cyclon , 
product colloctor, bagging 
machipo , oll rooovery unft 
Wharplom centrifuge, oli parl 
fylng bolt and oli packing 


(a ) Pressure Sonaltivo Labels 


(b ) Por other fabels of 

waxlmam operating 
capacity over 123/Labola 
Minuto . 


121 . 2209 


44 . 30 


[ 


I - 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 


115 


APPENDIX 1 PART- B - Contd . 


ITC-Rov. 2 CCCM 


ITC - Roy . 2 
Code 


CCCN 
Codo 


19 . Transportation of frozen foods) 


( 10 ) Coding /Merking including 

Ink - jet Printing Machine 
(other than ovor printing 
machines for cartons / Labels ). 


745. 2209 


84 . 20 


(1) Dry Ice ( solidified 

prog $ o $ . 


Coz ) 


728 . 4809 


84 , 59 


(11) Chock Wolghing - Volumetrio/ 

Gravimetric Filters. 


745 . 2209 


84 . 20 


(2 ) Dry Ice pelletislers . 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


20. Dalry Indnstry Equipment 


( 12 ) Aseptic Packaging and / or 

procossing Machinery with or 
without Presterllising/Pastu 
rising , Comprising, Forming, 
Filing, Sealing Coding/ 

Marking - fully automatic . 
(13 ) Filling and Sealing Machines 

for Laminated Collapsiblo 
Tubes . 


84 . 20 


721. 3860 


( 1) Homogenisers 


- 


745 . 2209 


84. 26 


1 


(2 ) Butter packing and wrapping 

machines . 


745.2209 


84 . 19 


743 . 2209 


84 . 20 


(3) Chceso packing and wrapping 

machines . 


745 . 2209 


(14) Filling and /or Lid Sealing 

Machines for Thermoformed 
Containers . 


84 . 19 


749 . 2209 


84 . 20 


(4) Capport. 


745 . 2209 


84 . 19 


(15) Filling and Sealng Systems 

for Bag-in -Box with or with 
out vacuumislog /Gas Flusb 
ing 


(5) Pneumatic electric 

for powder cones . 


bammers 


745 . 2209 


84 . 20 


NA 


21. Machinery for Chemical Industry i 


(16) Flat Carton System for Bag 

god Items and Sold Products 
lo Pouches . 


745 . 2209 


84 . 20 


( 1) Explosimeters of Combustible 

paslndioator - odlyidual and / 874 . 4019 
or continuous online typo. 


90 . 23 


(17) Caso Packing Machino for 

Wrap Around Case Packaging 
Machino. 


745 . 2209 


84 . 20 


(2 ) Volumetrlo Displacomont Mo 

tors . 


874 . 3009 


90 . 24 


(18 ) High Speed Automatic 

Wrappers - other than for 
safety Razor Blades, 
Cigarettes and Twist Wrap 
pers for confoctionery -- of 
of maximum operating spoods 
abovo 120 /minuto . 


(3) Welghing-cum - filling balance 

for rofrigemont gasco . 


84 . 19 


745. 2209 


84 . 19 


(4 ) Explosion - proof meters and 

vibrators of class Ex d3 Gp 5 
or thelr equivalent. 


874 .4019 


90 . 25 


745 . 2209 


84 . 59 


(5) Special Proumatlo Calibrators 


873 , 1004 


90 . 26 


( 19 ) On lino Inspoction System 

for Fillod Package Other 

than Wholly oloctronic . 
Package Manufacturing of 
Conversion Machinery 

Part- 11 


728 .1 


(6 ) Filter 1 Contiouous Rotary 

Pressuré Filter for inflamma 
ablo and for explosivo ma 
toriale , 


343 . 6009 


84 , 18 


(1) Stretch 

Machino. 


Blow 


Moulding 


728 . 1 


84 .47 


( 7) Vaporlaer for Sulphur. 


141 . 6019 


84 . 17 


(8 ) Karbate putops. 


NA 


NA 


(2 ) Multilayor Coator / Extrudory 

Cast Film Lins Including 
auxillary . Units Damoly 

Slitting Winding, Troating . 
(3 ) Printing Machino Flexograph 

(4 Colour and above ) for 
faxible packaging material. 


928. 


84 . 47 


(9 ) CoptrifugalGas Compresson 


743 . 1001 


84 . 11 


728 . 1 


84. 95 


( 10 ) High prosburo gas comp 

ro88008 /coot type blowers suit 
able for combustible gases liko 
cthyleno, butylcne, hydrogen 
oto , for pressure above 10 a . 


728 , 1 


NC 


143 . 1001 


(4) Stand up Pouch Making 

Machino . 
( 9) Plastic and Laminate Collap 

olblo Tubo Manufacturing 
Plant. 


84 . 11 


34.5% 


Apparatu 


back 


28 . 1 


(11) Breathing 

paokstylo. 


872 .0300 


09 . 16 


(6 ) Bag -in -Box 

Machino . 


Manufacturing 


128 . 1 


& # .33 


(12) Mult -pau dotoctor. 


874 . 3009 


00 . 24 


116 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SBC, 1 ] 


APPENDIX I PART-B - Conid , 


ITC -Ra 2 CCCN Code 

Code 


17C -Rry, 2 OCCN Code 


Code 


(22 ) Automatic doffing devices / 

equipment for worsted ring 
frames . 


84. 36 


(2.3) Blender defelter/Blender de 

felter red breaker. 
(34) Automatio hand knotters / 

band splicers. 
(2.0 Multilayer vortical stentor . 


NSC 


84 , 36 


22 . Machloory for woollen Industry , the following 
(1) Wool Opener. 

724 .4205 
(2 ) Automatio Hopper Feedor) 

Blending Hopper fcoder with 
automatic quantity control 
(cliher with automatic weight 
or volume control/ combined 
automatio weight and volume 
control for woollon worstod 
card ). 

724 ,4305 
(3) Rectilinear Combs. 

724 .4205 
(4 ) Vigoroux Top/Slivet Prlpting 
Machines. 

724 . 7419 
( 5) Tow to Fibro /Top Conver 
ting Machloe, 

724 . 4203 
(6) Top / Bump Press, 

724 . 4205 
(7 ) Draw Frame/Roving Framol 

Automatic Rubbing framo 
/Bobbiners / Finishers. 

724 . 432A 


84 . 36 


(26 ) Hydraulic flat Paper Press for 

finishing of worsted fabrics 
( both continuous and non 
continuous ). 


NSC 


84 . 59 


84 .40 


(27) Tontor (Multilayer vertical 

Stontor) with or without Heat 
Setting Mochanism . 


NSC 


84 .59 


84 : 36 
84 , 36 


( 28 ) Hydraulic Flat Paper Prose/ 

continuous Hydraulic Flat 
Paper Press . 


84 . 59 


84 .36 


(29 ) Conversion equipment for 

converting shuitlo looms lato 
shuttloloss type . 


NSC 


84 . 59 


(8 ) Solf - Twist spinning Machines 

Sirospindlog (2ply spinning) 
machines /coro sploolag ma 
chind . 


84 . 39 


724 .432A 


84 , 36 


(30) Multi-noodlo sewing Machines . 724 . 3103 
(31) Overlasting stitch sowing 

maching for gowlng salvedgos 
of fabrica, 

024 . 3103 


(9 ) Pancy Yarn Twisting and 

Patterning Machine . 


924 . 4324 


84 . 36 


84 .59 


(10 ) Junbo Hank Rocling machine 

(approx . 4 Kg. Hanks). 


724 . 4324 


84 . 36 


$ 23. Machinery for the manufacture of Industrial Jowell locładtog 
watch jewels the following 


724 . 4324 


84 . 36 


(1 ) Automatic slicing /cutting off 

machine. 


84 . 45 


(11) Yarn Brushing Machine 
( 12 ) High speed lotersecting Rotary / 

chain /Pin drawing sets / 
Gill boxes. 


936 . 1604 
928 . 4809 


( 2) Enlarging machine. 


84 , 59 


524 .4324 


84 . 36 


(3 ) Automatic fceding , rocossing 

and discharging machine. 


84 . 39 


(13 ) Semi- Automatic /Automatic 

Balling Machine , Labelling 
and Paokaging Machine for 
Hand knitting/Croobet Yarn 


928.4809 
743 .2709 
873 . 2009 


724 . 43.24 


(4) Brush polishingmachine. 
(5) Counting orachino. 
(6) Automatic centreless grindlog 

machino. 


84. 38 


84 . 21 
90 . 27 


(14 ) Continuous Yarn Bullding 

Relaxing Setting & Włod 
ing Machine . 


736 . 1906 


84 . 46 


724 .4324 


84 . 36 


( 1 ) Special purpose automatlo / 

som automatic cutting machi 


(15) Grinding Machine for Repoo 

Self - Twist Rollers . 


724 , 4324 


84 . 36 


736 . 1604 


84 . 45 


(16) Fibre Opening and Blondlpg 

Macbico . 


728 . 1100 


124 . 4203 
724 . 7401 


84 . 36 
24 , 40 


84 . 46 


(17) Ralping/ Brusblog Moghlog . 


128 . 1100 
136 . 1100 


84 . ** 


( 18 ) Automatio Loom for wesay 

Ing plain plush fabrlos and 
Jacquard plush fabrlas. 


124 . 9122 


84 , 91 


(8 ) Speclal purpose pludlog auto 

matio hydraulic volt . 
( ) Wno grloding muchloe. 
( 10 ) Controlom perinding machino. 
(11) Thicknico grading and mu 

caring macalne. 
(12) Loodrillon unschlae. 
(13) Threadlog maskine . 
( 14 ) Broach machining machino. 
(15) Pro- onlarging machino, 


AT4 . 2109 


90 . 16 


( 19 ) Combined Muing and Soour 

ing Machino . 


72A , 4203 


8 , 36 


728 . 1100 
936 . 1809 
736. 1929 


724 , 7419 


84 , 40 


(20) Blanket Fringing Machigo. 
(21) Carding sots. 


84 . 4 % 
84 .45 
84. 59 


724 . 4205 


84 . 36 


728 . 4809 


WI- 


1) 


पारतकापर : बचाधारण 


117 


APPENDLX I PART- B - Conid . 


. 


ITC -Rov. 2 CCCN Code 

Code 


ITC -Rev. 2 

Codo 
728 . 4809 
136 , 1319 
136 . 1939 


CCCN 
Code 

84 . 39 
84 . 45 
84 . 45 


( 7) Continuous filamont anDOR ) 

ing furnace. 


(16 ) Pino enlarging machino . 
(17) Rough /fine turning machine. 
( 18 ) Chamfering machioc . 


728 . 4809 


84 .59 


(8 ) Molybdenum boat Allament 

coil annouling furnace. 


728 .4809 


84 . 59 


(9 ) Automatic 

Machine . 


Coil Winding 


NSC 


84 . 59 


26 . Equipment for Ou Field Service 

Sector. 


(1 ) Off-shoro skid mounted /port 

ablo electrologging unit for 
oped bolo and cased bolo 
operations . 


NSC 


NSC 


24. Machinery roqulrod for mangfacture of spectacle fremode 

the followlog - 
( 1 ) Pneumatic Bimanual, milling 

machines for inside, outside 
and sculpturing spectacle 
fronts and sides, 

728 . 1209 84 . 41 
(2) Wire shooting machino. 728 . 4809 

84 . 99 
(3 ) Angle milling machine. 728 . 1209 84 , 47 
(4) Insertion of hingos . 

728 . 4809 84. 59 
( Hot mark Ing/stampiog ma. 
chinc . 

728 . 4809 84 . 59 
(6) Bending machine. 

728 , 1209 84 . 47 
m Acetone stvam polishing . 728.4809 84 , 59 
(8) Soldering machloe for metal 
frame. 

737. 3221 85, 11 
(9 ) Metal ring forming/shaping 
machine 

736 . 2201 84 .45 
( 10 ) Hlogos manufacturing plant. 728 .4809 84 . 99 


(2 ) Well 

mont. 


NSC 


hond Control oquip 


85 . 19 / 
90 . 28 


(3) Auxlllary winch with mono 

cable . 
(4 ) Dip moter . 
(5) High resolution digital and 

directional oquipment. 


NSC 
NSC 


84 . 22 
90 . 16 /9028 


NSC 


90 . 14 


NSC 


90 . 14 


Borc bolo goomctrary equip 

ment. 
(7) Thermal docay equipment. 


NSC 


90 . 14 


ray 


posltloning 


(8) Gamma 

Oquipment. 


NSC 90 . 20 /90 . 28 


( 11) Radial multing machine to 

simultaneously . shape and bo 
vcles CR 39 & all other orga 
nic lenses with Automatic 
feeding dod control system or 

manual system . 
(12 ) Automatic and /or soml- auto 

matio machines for manu 
facturo of Sunglass /Safety 
glass/ Spectaclo lenses . 


728 . 1100 


84 , 46 


NSC 


90. 28 
90 .25 


928 . 1100 


84 . 46 


90 . 16 


728 . 1100 


84 . 46 


( 13) Manual or automatio glass 

longos auttig mnobloc. 
(14 ) Automatic & Manual cutting 

machine for sunglass lenges 
In strip form . 


(9 ) Sonio BBC /Camont bond 

equipment. 
(10 ) Variable density oquipment. 
( 11) Formation Teser . 
(12) Side Wall Coring gum . 
(13) Free Point Indicator . 
(14 ) Bridge Plug Setting Equlpment. 
( 15) Sulm hole tools . 
(16 ) Perforation guns with mag 

notic positions 


874 . 3001 NSC 
to .300990 . 16 

90 . 16 /28 


928. 1100 


84 . 46 


82 . 04 


(15) 


Semi-automatic shaping and 
bovelling machine for flat 
organlo lenges with special 
sbapes liko masks. 


728 . 1100 


84 .46 


NSC 


(17) Drill Stom Testing Unit 

consisting of following tools 
and accessorios 


723 . 4303 90 . 28 /90 . 16 


2 . Machinery for Electric lamp mincore, the follow hao - 
(1) Automatio lamp op vltrla 

fying glass losulation filling 
maobldo . 

28 . 4809 

84 . 39 


Aling 128 .4809 


84. 59 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


(a ) Combination APR PCT 

NRT Tort Valvo . 
(1 ) Prourare rocordør. 
ro) Bar drop sabs. 
çal Revening rub Pla type. 
6 ) Roverning sab pamp out 

type 
(1) TR Jas, 


728 .4809 


( 2 ) Automatic lamp cap pin 

fizing and rovetting machines. 
(3) Continuous coil winding ma 

chinos, 
(4 ) Gap colling machines for 

coiled coil filaments . 
(5 ) Retractablo mandrel coll win 

ding machines . 
( Bloctronically controlled auto 

matic coil cutting machines , 


84 . 59 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


728 . 4809 


84 . 5 


valvo 


(8 ) Slip Joint Safety 

(different sizes ). 


728 . 4809 


84 . 59 


118 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - Sec . 1] 


APPENDIX 1 PART - B - Contd . 
ITC - Røv. 2 CCCN Code 

ITC-Ray, 2 CCCN 
Code 

Codo Code 
(h ) Sup Jolot: (difforent 

(27) Machinery for writing 
sizes ). 

Instruments (Foutaln pens, 

Ball point peng, sketch pens 
(I) Positest Casing Packar 

and the like ) 

728 . 1 84 . 39 
(different sizes ). 

( 1) Auto Assembly machinos 
( ) Heavy Anchor . 

for writing Instruments . 
(k ) Tubing Tall Pipe. 

( 2 ) Ballpon rofill tips 
1) PCT Sample Chambar. 

manufacturing machluc. 

(3) Ball point refll aggombly 
(m ) Sample Analysis Kit . 

machinos . 
( ) PCT- Test Kit. 

(4 ) Writing test maobino. 
(0 ) Nitrogon Transfor Pumps 

(5) Hot stamping machino. 
(18 ) (1) Comenting Unit 

723 . 4303 90 . 28 

(6 ) Machinery for manu 

facturing metal caps/ 
(1 ) Accessories such as : 

90 . 16 

barrels/ clips nibs for 
(a ) Rocirculating mlar. 

writing instruments . 
(b ) Sub soa comenting head 

(7 ) Metal Anishing Machines 

for writing instruments . 
(o ) Comonting head with 
quick coupler. 

(8 ) Machines for shaping 

metal rofills /motal caps 
(d) Adaptor for cementing 

and barrels. 
head. 

( 9 ) Machinery for manu 
( ) J- Postrlove Packors. 

facture of synthetlo fibro 

tips . 
(f Retrievable bridge plug 
with running tools. 

( 10) Machinory for manu 

facture of synthetic 
(g ) Cementing & quoozo 

Alltors for sketch pons. 
manifold . 
(1 ) Acidising Head with 

28 . Miscellaneous Items 
ifting hoad . 

( 1 ) Xenon and metal Halide 
(1) Acid Transfer Pump 

Lamps and equipment . 

778 .2209 83. 20 
with container . 

(2 ) Silver Rocovery Units. 

728 . 4809 84 . 59 
(1) Martin Docker Pressure 
Recorder . 

(3) Lasor equipment including 

laser measuring system , -737. 3219 85 . 11 
(k ) Liquld additive System 

(4 ) Power driven , cloth cutting 
0) Radioactive Density 

machine for automobilo in 
dustry . 

724 . 7405 84 . 40 
Metor . 

874 . 3009 
(5) Fluorimetor. 

90 . 24 
( 19 ) H2S Control Servicos : 

90 . 18 
(1) Breathing Apparatus. 

(6 ) U . V . Spectrophotometer 
(Double Beam ) 

874 , 4004 90 . 25 
(1 ) Capsules to Measuro 
H2S . 

High Performance liquid 
chro -matograph . 

874 , 4009 

90 .25 
(20 ) Acid Stimulation Services - 874 . 3 84 . 59 

Llquld nitrogen plants 
Stimulation Vessel equpped 

capacity upto 10 litres per 
with : 

hour. 

728 . 4809 

84 , 39 
(a ) High Capacity Burners, 

Automatic chip / flake loc mak 
Air Compressor, Auxt 

ing machine with a capacity 
Hary Wator and Pro 

upto 200 kgs per day for 
marine Industry. 

741 .4101 84 , 15 
(b ) Blending systom , con 

( 10 ) Bichromatic colour sorting 
trol room facility for 

machino . 

874 .4 90 . 25 
romote oporation oto 

(11) Al Plasma Cutting machino. NSC 
NOTE 

1 , The ITC- R .2 and CCCN Code numbors have boon assigned to facilitate collection of data only . 
2. Those will be reproduced on the Bills of Entry Alled by the Importer and on Ilcenicce whencver Leaved . 
3. Thoso , however , will not be bindlog on customs authorities for classifondoa for tariff purposes. 
4 . The laterprotation of the Import- Export Policy will, however , continue to be as per description of the item glyc 10 AIS Appon . 

dix and not acoording to the Code numbers assigned . 
5. NSC stands for Not separately classiflod . 


874.3 


84 .59 


duct Pump . 


. 


84 , 39 


भारत का राषाय : बसाधारण 


119 


APPENDIX 2 
RAW MATERIALS, COMPONENTS, CONSUMABLES, TOOLS AND SPARES 

PART-A 

List of Banned Items 
ITC Roy, 2 CCCN 

ITC R . 2 
Code Code 

Code 


CCCN 
Code 


or 


(tl) Poultry fats , rendered 

solvont extractod 


091. 3000 


13 . 01 


Tallow , Fat and /or Oils 
rendered , unrendered or 
otherwise of any animal 
origin lacluding the follow 
lng : 


( iv ) Fats and olls of Ash /marino 

origin whether or not rofinod 


411 , 1 


15 .04A 


(1 ) Lard stearino , olco stoarlao, 

tallow stoarino, lard oll , 
Oloo oll and allow oll not 
omulsifled or mixed or pro 
parod in any way 

411 . 3300 
(11) Noat s foot oll and fats 
from bono or wasto 

411 . 39 


(v) Margarine, Imitation tard 

and other prepared odiblo 
fats of animal origin 


091. 4 


15 . 13A 


19 .03 


15 . 06 


2 . Animal ronnet 


NSC 


29 . 40 


PART - B 
List of Restricted Itoms. 
CCCN 
Code 


ITC Rev.2 
Code 


ITC Rev. 2 
Code 


CCCN 
Code 


Chemicals & Alled Items 


29 . 42 


341 . 4003 
057 . 7302 


(1) A . B .S . Moulding Powder 


NSC 


(15) Caffeino and its salts 
(16) Cashow Kernals 
( 17) Cellulosic tops/spun yarn / 

wasto . 


39 .01 to 

39 . 06 


08 .01D 


(2 ) Acetanilide 


514 . 7001 


29 . 25 


651 . 8 


31. 03 ) 
56 . 03 / 
56 . 05 


(3) Acetazolamido 


NSC 


29 . 36 


(4 ) Ally Isothiocyanato 


315. 4 


29 . 31 


( 18 ) Cocoa — (both beans and 

powdor )/ cocoa -extender/ 
cocoa cako /cocoa pasta 


515 . 69 


29 . 35 


072 /081 . 92 


515 .6 


29 . 35 


(19) Coir (fibro /yarn / fabrics ) 


514 . 5001 


(5) Amidopyrine 
(6) Analglo 
(7) Aniline/Anllino oil and salts 

thoroof 
(8) Benzyl acetato 
(9) Benzyl chlorido 
( 10 ) Benzyl benzoato 
(11) Bonzo - trichlorido 


513 . 7203 


29 . 22 
29 . 14B 
29 . 02D 
29. 14D 
29 .02D 
NSC 


511 . 3904 


18 . 01 / 
18 . 02 / 
18. 03 
57. 04 / 
57 . 07) 
57 . 11 
04 .02 
28 . 30 
12 .01 
15 . 07 


265 . 91/ 
651 . 99 / 
654 . 98 
022 . 4904 
523 . 1205 
222 . 3000 
423. 3000 


(20) Condonsod milk 
(21) Copper Oxychlorido 
(22 ) Cotton Sceds. 


$ 13 . 7902 
511 . 3903 


( 12 ) Blended fabrics/ Yard 


NSC 


(13 ) Brewory hops including hop 

oxtracts 


oxtracts 


054 . 8400 ) 
292 . 91 


12 . 06/ 
13 ,03 


( 23 ) Crosylic acid and mixed 

cresoto (both modical and 
tochnical grades) and crosoto 
Ortho /mota /para with purity 
loss than 97 % including 
taracids and cresoto oils 
having a boiling rango bolow 
220°c . 


( 14 ) Bronzo Powdor, granules and 

Flakas 


682 . 2400 


94 .06 


512 . 36127 
335 . 2509 


29 . 00/ 
27. 01 


120 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


PART 1 -- Sec . 1] 


nh 


APPENDIX 2 PART- B - Conra . 


ITC R . 2 


CCCN 
Code 


Code 


(24) Cyano -baso and Btho Hopta 

zino oltrato 


NSC 


NSC 


(25) Cyclamic acid and its salts 


NSC 


29 . 30 


NSC 


29 .35 


( 26 ) Diazepam 
(27 ) Dimethyl sulphato 


$ 16 . 3902 


29 . 17 


$ 11.4004 


(28) 2 : 4 Dlnitorchloro bonzono 


$ 11 . 4004 


29. 03 


(29 ) DNPT (Dinltroso 

mothylono tetramino ) 


ponta 


NSC 


29. 33 


514 . 6 


29 . 23 


NSC 


(30 ) Ethanolamino (mono , di and 

tri) 
(31 ) Fabrics, made from man 

mado fibres/yarns (oxclud 
ing uninkod nylon ribbon 
tape from 1 /2 to 18 - t both 
the ends electrically welded 
requlrod for the manufacturo 
of typo-writor /computer rib 
bons). 


653 


51, 04/ 

56 .07 


ITC Rov . 2 CCCN 
Codo 

Coda 
(4) Azlnophos mothy NSC 

NSC 
(5) Bonzone Hexachlorido 311 . 3902 29. 02 
(6 ) Binepacryl 

NSC 

NSC 
(7) Calcium Arsenato 523 . 29 

28 .41 
(8 ) Carbophenothlon 
( Trithion ) . 

NSC 

NSC 
(9) Chinomethionato 
(Morastan ). 

NSC 

NSC 
(10) DBCP 

NSC 

NSC 
( 11) Dicrotophos 

NSC 

NSC 
(12 ) Dioldrin 

NSC 
(13 ) Digulfotan 

NSC 

NSC 
( 14 ) B .P.N 

NSC 

NSC 
( 15 ) Endosulfan 

NSC 

NSC 
(16 ) Endrio ( Technical). $ 91 . 1012 NSC 
(17 ) Ethyl parathlon . 591 . 1017 38 .11 
(18 ) Pontin acetate NSC 

NSC 
( 19 ) Fentinhydroxide NSC 

NSC 
(20 ) Load arsenato. 

523. 29 

28 .41 
(21) Loptophos (Phosvely NSC 

NSC 
(22) Malathion . 

NSC 

29 . 31 
(23) Mevinphos (Phosdrin ). NSC 

NSC 
(24 ) Mephosfolan . 

NSC 

NSC 
(25) Nitrofen . 

NSC 

NSC 
(26) Toxaphono. 

NSC 

NSC 
(27) Vamidothlon . 

NSC 

NSC 
(28 ) 2, 4 , 5 – T . 

591 . 3003 

NSC 
(29 ) Synthetic Pyrathroids – 
(1) Docamethrio . NSC 

NSC 
( 11 ) Permethrin . 

NSC 

NSC 
(II ) Cypermethiin , NSC 

NSC 
(iv ) Fouyalrato . 

NSC 

NSC 
(30) Woodlcides : 
( ) Isoproturon . NSC 

NSC 
(I ) Motba bonzthlazuron NSC 

NSC 
(ul ) Metoxoron 

NSC 

NSC 
(31) Any pestloldo focludlog 

Insocticidas , woodicidos , 
fungicidos , acerloldo , 
herbicido , rodantiado 
and mitloldo , which has 
not on reglatorod at 
wblol lo prohibited for 
Import under the lano 
tilda Aot, 1909 . 


551 .4 


(32) Flavouring o ssoncos - all 

typos ( including those for 

liquors). 
(33) Flint buttons (RI-1.625, RI 

1.634 and RI-1.700 ). 
( 34 ) Folio aold. 
(35) Formlo Acid . 
(36) Fusod bifocal blanks 
(37) Goladno (all Grades) 
(38 ) Gontamycin Sulphato In 

cluding gentamycino CCA 


33 . 04 


541 . 1002 
513 . 7911 


29 . 38 
29 . 14D 

70 . 18 


664 . 2 


592 .2302 


35,03 


NSC 


29 . 44 


(39 ) Glycerophosphorio acids and 

its salts 


316 . 3102 


29 . 19 


(40 ) Gold in any form 


971 


71 . 07) 

08 


28 . 49 
01 . 03 


29 .07 
29 . 26 


(41) Gold chlorido 

323 . 32 
(42) Grand parent stock (poultry ) 011 . 4 
(43 ) Groundnut soods 
(44) Haxachlorophone 512 . 37 
( 45) Hoxumloo 

$ 14 . 8201 
(40) Insootloldes, Pesticides and 591 

Woodlcides , the following from 
(1) Alumipſum phosphido 

(2) Ammonium sulphamato 362 . 1300 
(3) Azinophos ethyl NSU 


NSC 


(32 ) All pesticides formulations 

other those under entry 
No. 219 (21) A App . 3. 
Part A . 


NSC 


[ TTI- 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 


121 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 
- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 
- 


- 


- - - 


-ULUI 


APPENDIX 


PAKI- B - Contd . 


CCCN 
Col 
29 .03 


ris 110. 214.13 AT 16 . Jedi ldo 
( 8 ) Liquid golu . 


Io lor, 2 CCCV 
Onde 

Corta 
511. 7937 

19. 33 
971 

Ti 07, 
32. 08 / 

17 11 


ITC 8 . 2 

Codo 
(74) Para toluene sulphonic acid . $ 11. 4 
(75) Philol/uitca /mclamino for . 

maldehyde moulding powder/ 
tubes/shoots/ rods (all types 
oxcopt electrical grado 
moulding powder) . 

512 . 3402/ 58 


39 01 to 
32 . 06 / 

29 . 06 


111 ) Livor cxtinci, injectiblc ani 

orul grados . 


19 11 


541 02021 
6207 
273 1202 
273 12012 
5 ! ! 400 
Ne 


( 70 ) Perfumerycompounds / 

synthetic essential oils 
( 77) Phenacetin 


NSC 
514 . 7013 


(50) Marble /Oranito /onyx . 
(51) Meta -ci-nitro-benzene. 
( 571 Methapydlicno and ite salt . 


2513 
2001 
9 . 25 


33 ,01 
29.23 
29 , 35 
NSC 
NSC 
29.06 


857) Methagualone base and 

methaqualone hydrochlorid 


NSC 


79 . 39 


29 ..15 


(78) Phenyl methyl Pyi azolipa 519 .6924 
( 79 ) Practolol. 

NSC 
(80) Propranolol hydrochlorido . NSC 
(81) Resorcinol 

NSC 
(82) Riboflavino-5-Phosphate 
sodiun 

541. 1006 
(83) Saccharine/Sodium 
Saccharino. 

514 .82 
( 84 ) Self-adhesive tapes all types . 541 .9102 
(85) Sodium benzoato . 

513 . 7921 
(86 ) Sodlum cyanido 


(54 ) 2-Methyl-imidazole . NSC 
(55 ) 2-Methyl --4 /5 nitro imidazole NSC 
( 56 )) Metronidazolo. 

NSC 
( 57 ) Mixtures of odoriforous sub 

stances /mixtures of rosinoids. 551 . 4 
(58 ) Mono chloro benzeno . 311 . 3906 


29 , 38 


29 . 33 


29. 26 
NSC 
29 . 14 


33 . 04 
29 . 02 
39 . 95 


(59 ) Morpholino propionitrilo 


NSC 


(87) Sulphacetamide and sulpha 

cetamido sodium . 


315. 71 


29 36 


(60 ) Niacin /Nicotinic acid , 

Niacinamide /Nicotinamide/ 
3 -Pyridine- carboxylic acid 
arulde . 


341 . 1 


29 38 


(88) Sulphadimidino (Sulphame. 

ibiazino). 


315 . 71 


29.36 


(61) Nialamido . 


NSC 


29 39 


515. 71 


(62) Nitro -henzouo. 


511 4013 


29 .03 


NSC 


(89 ) Sulpbaguanidino. 
(90) Sulphamethoxazolo . 
(91) Sulphanilamido. 
(92) Suo flower seeds. 


29 . 38 
29 . 36 
29 . 36 


515 . 71 


(63) Orgando surfaço activo agents , 

namely : Sulphonated 
Dodecyl Benzono /Alkyl 
Bonizeno (acid slurry). 


551 2 


34 .07 


223 . 8008 
424 9009 


12 . 01 
15 07 


(64 ) Orthonitrochloro benzonc. 


$ 11. 4015 


2 0.3 


(97) Syothetio topg /spun 

wasto . cxcluding 
wasio . 


yarn 
nylon 


(65) Ortho nitro toluonc. 


NSC 


$ 11 . 4 


NSC 


29 . 01 


(66) Oxytetracycline . 


541 3301) 


29 44 


29 .22 


(67) Paper for security printing 

Currency paper, stämp paper 
and other special types . 


671 


NSC 


+ 8 . 01 


29 . 36 


(69 ) Para amino phenol. 


514 . 6018 


29 .23 


NSC 


(09 ) Paracetamol, 


NSC 


29 .25 


194 ) TMA ( TH -methoxybenzyl 

morpholino acrylonitrile). 514 . 2 
(95 ) Tetracyclino baro/Hel. 
(9 ) Thiothlamine 

NSC 
(97) Tolbutamide. 

NSC 
(98 ) Trimothoprim . 

NSC 
(99 ) Trimmings and embellish 

ments for garments , made 
up , knitwear, plastic /leather 
goods etc . 

NSC 
( 100 ) Typewriter ribbong . 

NSC 
(101) Vitamin B - 1 ( Thiamino 

ITCL / Thladino moponftrato) 
(10 .7) Vitamin B -2 


( 70 ) Pra -acetyl sulphuguanidine . NSC 


29 . 36 


NSC 
98 . 08 


( 71) Pora pitrochlito benezene 


511 4016 


29 . 03 


1 /2 ) Para Oltro tolueno , 


$ 11 4027 


0 .03 


NSC 


24 . 14 


(73) Para sulphonyl chlorlde. 
58 GI/ 85 — 9 . 


122 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SEÇ , 1] 


- - - Tahm- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- - - Vari 


e 


APPENDIX & PART- B - -Conclu . 


CCCN 
Code 


ITC A . 1 

Code 


CCCX 
Cod 


53 . 04 


ITC Rox . 2 

Code 
(103) Vinyl Acetate . 

268 .6100 
(104) Vinyl Acetus Minuomu 5111 
(105 ) Wines, tonic and modicated. 112 . ) 


( 114 ) Tyro tubo valves, valvo coros , 

valvo caps and aqoossories , 
other than for bogvy duty 
vehicle , 


5312 


749 . 2 


84 . 6 ) 


22 . 05/ 
06 /07 / 10 / 

30 .03 


( 115 ) Watches (mochanical) In SKD 
coadition 

883 , 1 


91. 01/ 
07 /. 19 


( 106 ) Woollen fabrics/wool tops! 

woollon yarn /woul wastc / 
wool, knitting. 


651 . 2100 


Iron and Steel Itemu, 


53 .05 


C 


Carbon Steel Items (all grades ) 

( 116 ) (a ) Forging-quality 


o 


(a ) billets barshunds 
uplo 


stoel 


249 . 1 


84 . 62 


(6 ) Forged rounds upto 

450mm dia . 
(c ) Rollod rounds upto 

145 mm . 
, (d ) Billets for seamless steel 

tubes ASTME 45 quality 
Alloy Steel Items (all gredos ) 
(117) (1) Stalnloss stoel rounds, 

( 11 ) Stainless steel flats . 
(IN ) Alloy stcol squares and 

and other soctions . 
( 118 ) Stainless stool wires 304 L 

30 gaugo and thloko . 
(119 ) Stainless steel stripe in glas 

ranging from 100 mm to 
150 mm and thickness from 
0 .5 mm to 1 . 5 mm . 


do 


dc 


ENGINEERING ITEMS 
( 107) (a ) Ball Bearings including 

components thereof 
having SKF Nog. or 
equivalent thereof 6200 
to 6213 , 6302 to 6310 , 
6004 , 6005, 9830 $ 
( 1838001), 1209 and 
1309 as well as thetr 
derivatives such as 
having metallic shields, 

grooves , eto . 
(b ) Taper Rollor Bearings 

of following SKF Nos. 
or equlvalent thoroof : 
30204, 30205, 30207 , 
30209, 30214 , 32211, 
32213, 32216 , 32307, 
30302 , 30305, 30312 , 
CK - LM -48548 , CK -418 , 
CK -539, KM -48510 
K -414 , K - 532x , 
CK -72212 , CK - 566 
CK -580, K -72487, K - 563 
K - 572 , 3984 /3920 (PAB 
32913 / 32912 ), 11590 / 
11520 , LM - 501349 / LM 
501310 , 25577 / 25523, 

02872 /02820 . 
(c ) Super precision bear 

Ings viz . P - 6 to P - - 2 
or ABEC - 5 to 
ABEC _ 9 for machine 
tool industry are сх. 

cluded , : 
( 108 ) Eloctric portable generators 

upto 3 . 5 KVA (Eloctrio 
portable generators abovo 
3 . 5 KVA will be subject to 

normal CG procedure) : 
( 109) Fastoners — Snap and zip 

(including in coil form ), and 

components thereof. 
(110 ) Iron scrap including Pig 

Iron chips. 
(111) Measuriog rules and tapes 

metallic , non -metallic and 
steel including etched / 
printed loose tapos at ran 
dom lengths. 


749 . 1 


84 . 62 


NYC 


716 . 2 


85 . 01 


MiacollADOOD 
(120 ) Any item having another 

chemical name or synonym , 
but of tho samo natura , as 
any of the items covered by 
this List. 

NSC 

NSC 
( 121) All consumor goods, howso 

cyer described , of industrial, 
Agricultural or animal origin , 
not appearing individually 
in Appendicos 3 Part- A 
and 5 or spocifically Istod 
for Import undor Open 
Gonoral Licence 

NSC 
(122 ) All consumer goods in SKD 
condition 

NSC 

NSC 
( 123) All defootivo / scrap matorlal 

as well as outtings other 
than those appearing indi 
vidually in Appendices 3 . 
S Part- A and 6 . 

NSC NSC 
NOTE 
1 . The ITC R . 2 and CCCN Codo numbers have bood 

assigned to facilitato collection of data only . 
2 . Theso will be reproduced on tho Bills of Entry filed by 

the importer and on licences whenever issuod . 
3 . Thoso , however , will not be binding on customs autbo 

Atios for classification for tariff purposes . 
4 . The interpretation of tho Import- Export Policy will , 

however, continue to bo 48 por description of tho Items 
given in this Appopdix and not according to the Coda 

numbers assigned . 
3 . " NSC stands for Not Separatoly Clayalfled . 


899 . 8401 


98 . 02 ) 


874 . 2104 


90 . 16 


( 112 ) Farts /Componcnts /Sub 

assombly /assombly of Aro 
arms and ammunition 


984 . 6 


93, 04 / 


06 


( 113 ) Populatod /loaded /stuffod 

ponted oircuit boards . 


NSC 


NSC 


[ 9TI- 


1] 


STOT 4T 279781 . ESTE 


123 


TR11TA14 

ATSU 


m 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDIX . 


RAW MATERIALS, COMPONENTS , CONSUMABLES, TOOLS & SPARES 
LIST OF LIMITED PERMISSIBLE ITEMS . 

PART - A 
RAW MATERIALS, COMPONINTS , CONSUMABRES , TOOLS ANI SPARES (OTHIP THAN 

IRON STERI & PERRO ALLOYS ) 


ITC Rev . 2 CCCN 

Codo Code 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 

Code Code 


sulcal and AWed Items 


22 . Ammonium bloarbopato . 


523 . 2401 28. 42B 


1. Acetaldehydo 


23. Ammonium bromido. 


523 . 2909 28 . 33 


2 . Acolarsol. 


523 . 2402 28 .427 


516 ,21 29 . 11 
541. 7903 29. 32 
$14 .7002 29 .23 
314 . 7003 29 . 25 


3 . Aceto Acetanilide 


24 . Ammonium carbonato. 
23 , Ammonium chlorido ( Industrial 

and battery padou ). 


523 . 1202 28 . 30 


4 . Accto Acet Ortho Chloro Anilido 

(AAOCA ), 


26 . Ammonium chromato , othor then 

analytical roagent grado. 


5 . Aceto Acet Orthu Totuidinc . 


514 . 5037 


29 . 22 


523 .3119 28 .47 
323.3119 28.47 


27. Armonlum molybdato . 


6 . Acetone . 
7. Acetyl derivatives of sulpha druge. NSC 
8. Acetylono Black . 


NSC 


9 . Acrylic ester monomers , namely 

cthyl acrylato butyl, acrylate , othyl 
Acrylate , mothyl acrylato and 2 
othyl hexyl acrylato . 


28 . Ammonlum phosphato (modo and 

di). 
29 . Amyl acotato. 
30. Amyl salloylato . 
31. Angora rabbit hatr . 
32. Anthrallio acid . 
33. Anthrapillo acid . 


523.2219 31 .03 
513.7202 29. 14 
N $ C 29 . 16 
NSC 53.02 
NSC NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


10 . Acrylic plastic shoots /offcuts , othor 

than Acrylic plastio shoots of 0 .83 
mm to 1. 2 mm thicknong 


583 


39 . 07 / 
39 . 02 


314 . 6028 29 . 23 
316 29 . 13 


34. Anthraquinonc . 


11. Activatod Carbon . 


12 . Allyl loooyadato. 


- 323. 2602 28 44 


29 . 13 


NSC 


13. All types of PVC Stabllisen avoh 

as liquid barlum cadmium , organo 
tin stabilisors, solid Barium 
Cadrnium cumplex stabilisers and 
Load stabilisers , 


33 . Anthraquinone culpbonic aold . 
sodium salt . 

NSC 
36. Antipyrine benzeno sulphonato. NSC 
37. Antipyrino/ Phenozono (1-phenyl -2 , 
3-Dimothyl -3 Pyrazolono ). 

NSC 
38 . Aurantino (or Aurantia ) or Argool). NSC 


29 . 35 


23 . 05 


14 Alpha Naphtylamino . 


w 


15. Aluminium chlorldo. 


514 .5026 
523 . 1201 28 . 30 
522.5600 28 .20 


39. Asbestos Jointing shoots (Includ- 

Ing Impot shoots and boator addi 
tion Jolntings ). 


16 . Alurlolum hydroxide gol. 


40 . Baro rubber throid upto 90 gauge. 


621 . 0300 


40 .07 


axcopt 


17 . Aluminium powder /flakos 

industrial explosivo grado. 


684 . 2400 


76 .05 


41 . Barium Carbonato . 


523 . 2403 28 .42 


18 . Aluminium stearato. 


NSC 


NSC 


42 . Barium chlorido. 


523 . 1203 28 . 30 


19 . Alpba bydroxyprogestorono and its 

ostars except 17 -alpha hydroxy pro 
gesterono caproato . 


than 


341 . 39 


29. 39 


43, Bariam chromato , other 

analytical roagont grado. 


523 , 3119 28 . 47 


2 . Aminoanthraqutoono . 


29 . 23 


514 . 6006 
514 . 6007 


44. Barlum nitrato. 


323 . 2111 28 . 39 


21. -Amino diphenyl amino . 


$ 14 . 5021 29 22 


43. Barhum Polysulphido . 


323 . 1311 28 .35 


124 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - Suc . 11 


TA 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- -- 


APPENDIX 3 PART 1 - Conid 


ITC Rer 2 

Code 


CCCN 
Code 


46 . Barium stearate , 


47. Barium sulphato . 


48 . Barlum sulphide . 


49 . Belladona extracts . 


ITC Rer 2 CCCN 

Code Cunha 
41370 29 ,14 
523, 1903 28. 48 
523 . 1509 28 . 35 
292 .9101 13 .03 
560 . 2903 29,13C 
541. 31 29 . 44 
514 .5003 29 .22 
513 . 7901 29 . 14 
512 . 2001 29 .05 


50 . Bonzanthrone. 
51. Benzathino ponicillin . 


( 5 ) Hmlum chromato, other than 

inalytical regent grade . 
( 6 ) Cadmium iodide . 
(7 ) Cadmium maroon . 
(8 ) Cadmium nitrate . 
(9 ) Cadmium oxide, 
( 10 ) Cadmium phosphate. 
(11) Cadmlum stearato . 
(12) Cadmium sulphato. 
(13) Cadmium sulphide, 
(14) Cadmium red . 

(13) Cadmium yollow . 
77 . Calcinod Petroleum Cokc. 
78. Calcium Carbido. 


24uth 28 : 
NSC 28 34 
NSC NSC 
NSC 28 . 39 
522 . 5903 28.28 
NSC 28 .40 
513 . 79 29 . 14 
NSC 28 .38 
523 .1501 28 . 35 
NSC 32 .07 
NSC 32 . 07 
335 . 4200 27. 14 


52 . Benzidinc (free base ) 


53 . Benzoic acid. 
54 . Benzyl Alcohol. 
55 , Benzaldeliyde. 
56 . Bephenium hydroxynaphthonte. 
57. Beta - amino - anthraquinone. 


NSC 


NSC 
29. 23 


514 . 6006 
514 . 6007 


523. 1204 28 .30 


tri) . 


58 . Beta Napthol 

512 . 3605 29. 06 
59, Bismuth chromate other than 
analytical rçagent grado . 

523 . 3119 28 . 47 
60 . Bismuth cltrate. 

$ 13 . 9029 29 . 16 
61. Bismuth oxychloride . 

523 . 1219 28 , 30 
62. Bismuth salicylate . 

513. 9029 29. 16 
63. Bismuth sub -carbonate . 

523 . 2419 28 .42 
64 . Bismuth sub-nitrate. 

523 . 2119 28 . 39 
65 . Blue print paper. 

NSC 37 . 03 
66. Borax, 

- 
67 . Borncol/Iso -borncol and Its osten 

including bornyl acetate , but cx 
cluding Iso -Bornyl acetate . 

512 . 2002 29 . 03 

513 . 7209 
68. Bromide paper (black and white ). NSC 37 .03 
69. Bromo bonzanthrone . 

516 . 2905 29 . 13 
70. Buchu leaves . 

NSC 12. 07 
71. Buclizing and its salts . 

NSC 29 .35 
72 Butanol (Normal and Iso ) but 

excluding secondary and tertiary 
butanol. 

$ 12 . 1300 29 . 04 
73. Butyl acetato , 

513 . 7205 29 . 14 
74 . Butylated hydroxy tolucne /ditertiary 
butyl para cresol. 

NSC 
75 . Butyi titanate. 

NSC 28 , 47 
76 . Cadmium compounds, the following : 
(1) Cadmium acetate. 

NŞC 29 . 14 
(2 ) Cadmium bromido. 

NSC 28 .33 
(3) Cadmium carbonate. 

NSC 28 .42 
(4) Cadmium chloride. 

NSC 28 . 30 


79 , Calcium Carbonato . 
80 . Calclum compounds, tho following : 

(1) Calcium chlorido . 
(2 ) Calcium chromate , other than 

analytical roagent grado. NSC 28 . 47 
(3) Calcium D -Saccharato . NSC NSC 
(4 ) Calcium lactate . 

513.9002 29. 16 
(5 ) Calcium phosphate (mono and 

523.2211 28 .40 
(6) Calcium stearate 

513 . 79 29 .14 
81. Campheno. 

$ 11. 29 29. 01 
82. Camphor. 

516 . 2907 29. 13 

516 . 2908 
83. Caprolactum 
84 . Carbersong. 

341. 7918 30. 03 
83. Carbon black excluding chagnol 

black and lamp black for rubber 

goods manufacturing Industry 522. 1802 28 03 
86. Carbon blocks, - electrograpbitised , 

hard carbons and resin bonded 
carbong. 

778 . 8703 85 . 24 
87. Carbon brushes . 

778 . 8704 85 . 24 
88 . Carbon totrachloride. 

511. 3905 29 . 02 
89 . Carboxymethyl cellulose and its 
salts, except dental grado. 

NSC 39 .03 
90 . Cardamom oil. 

NSC 33 .01 
91. Caseln (excluding soluble grade), 585, 27067 39 04 
92 . Catalyst (organic /Inorganic ) made 

of Platinum -rhodium , vanadium , 
pentoxldo catalyst, low tempera 
turo and high temperature carbon 
monoxide conversion catalyst, Anit 
methanatlon catalyst, 

- 98 9 3A 12 
97, Celery seed oll . 

SE 33 . 01 
94. Cellulosc acetato moulding powley 
granules / off cuts /cuttings , 

584. 3202 29 . 01 


NSC 


(ATT I - 


E 11 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


125 


EWYRCLGS 


. 


VaReL 
- 


WWW 

. 

WW - WS VL 
Www Il 

ht 


- 


1 


APPENDIX VART- A - - Conid . 


ITC Re, 2 

Code 
NSC 


CCCN 
Code 


95 . Celluloso film . 


39 .01 to 
39 .06 


123 . Citronella Oil. 


661 . 2 


25. 23 


96. Cement colours . 
97. Cerium nitrate . 
98. Cetrimide 


28 . 52 


NSC 
NSC 


124 . Citronella pure. 
125 . Citronelyl acetate . 
126 . Clofibrate , 


29 . 25 , 


ITC Rev . 2 CCCN 

Code Code 
551.3045 33 .01 
551 . 3046 
NSC NSC 
513 . 72 29.14 
NSC NSC 
335 . 2101 27 . 06 
335 . 2109 
335. 25 27 .07 
513. 7102 29 . 14 
NSC 29 .42 


127. Coal tar disinfectant fluid (black ). 


99 . Chemicals for metal treatment based 

on phosphoric acid . 


522 . 2401 28 . 10 


128 . Coal tar naphtha . 


100 , Chicory soeus . 


071 . 2002 21 .011 
( roasted ) 12 . 05 

054 . 8801 
( unroasted ) 


129. Cobait acetate . 


130. Colchicine. 


101, China cky (other than bill clay). 


278 . 2106 


25 . 07 


102 . Chloral and Chloral bydrate lo . 

cluding preparations thereof. 


NSC 


20 121 
29 . 84 


131. Compounded electroplating salts 

of nickel, copper, silver, zinc , 
cadmium , tin , chromium , brass , 
etc . and their brighteners and 
levellers . 


598 . 9908 


38 . 19 


103. Chloramphenicol powder and 

Chloramphenicol palmitate , ex 
cluding chloramphenicol Stearate 
and chloramphenicol sodium 

succinate . 
104. Chloridiazapoxide , its salts and 

derivatives . 


132 . Conveyor belrings upto 1700 mm 

width excluding those mentioned 
in App 6 -List 8 - Part I. 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


29 . 33 


105 . Chloridine hydroxide . 


NSC 


NSC 


106 . Chlorinated paraffins . 


NSC 


38 19 


107, Chlorinated tri -sodium phosphate . 
108 . 1- Chloroanthraquinone. 


133. Copper Alloy Powder and takes 

(other than Bronze Powder). 
134 . Copper compounds, the following : 

(1) Copper chloride (cuprous and 
cupric). 

NSC 28 .30 
(2) Copper oxides (cuprous and 
cupric). 

522 .5904 28 .28 
(3) Copper sulphate. 

523 . 1904 28 . 38 
135 . Corrugated paper and boards. 641. 7400 48 .05 
136 . Cotton yarn /fabrics /thread . 651. 31 55 . 05 

652 . 14 55 . 09 
651 . 3602 55 .05 


523 . 2215 28 . 40 
516 ,2911 29 .13 
NSC 29.04 
511 . 3908 29.02 
$ 14 .603 $ 29 .23 
$ 22 . 2101 28 . 06 
541. 3300 29 . 44 
541, 1001 29 . 38 


109 Chlorobutoi. 
110 . Chloroform . 


111 . 5 -Chloro -o -toluidine . 


112, Chlorosulphonic acid . 


113 . Chlorotetracyline and its salts . 
114 . Choline and its salts . 


119 . Chrome alum , potash , other than 

analytical reagent grade . 


523. 1911 28 . 38 


116 . Chromo colour and buros - -wick 

green . 
117. Chromic acid . 
118 . Chromium sulphato (basic ). 


NSC 32 .07 
NSC 28 . 21 
323 .1919 28 . 38 


137. Cubic Zirconia . 
138. Cumin oil. 

551. 3041 33 . 01 
139. Cyclizine and its salts . 

NSC 29. 35 
140 . Cyclo hexylamine. 
141, Cypnamyl acetate . 

NSC NSC 
142 . 3 - Cynopyridine . 

515 .6928 29 .35 
143. Decorative laminates . 

NSC NSC 
144 . Decorative Papers . 

641. 9700 48. 11 
145. Developers and fixing salts for 
processing of X -Ray films. 

882 . 1 37 . 08 
116 . Diacetono or Diaccione alcohol. 516 . 2912 29 . 12 
147. Diagopostic ageni - VDRL antigen . NSC 30 . 02 / 

30 . 05 


119 . Cinema Arc Carbon , high and low 

intensity , including rotatiog high 
Intensity 


778 ,87 


5. 24 


120 . Cinematograph film . black and 

white, not exposed (positive and 
sound negative ). 


882 . 2201 17,02 
*192! 4111 


121 . 11. 


IS , 4 , 4 ; 1 . 


To mincinthru . 


314 . 6041/ 29 . 32 


122. Citrt # clo . 


126 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART |- - Suc. 1 ) 


ANNA 


un 


APPENDIX 3 PART- A - - Contd . 


CCCN 
Coda 


C .1. 
No , 


17C Rev. 2 CCCN 
Xode Coco 


ITC -Rov. 2 

Codo 
149 . 4 : 4 Dainino stilbeno disulphonic 
acd . 

NSC 


29 . 22 


150 . 3 1 3 Dichloro benzidino di-hydro 

chloride base and Its salts. 


151. 2 1 5 Dichloro nitro benzoue , 


NSC 29 . 22 
511. 4002 29. 03 
NSC 29.35 


152. 4, 7 - Dichloroquinolinc, 
133. 142 : 5) Dichloro -4-sulphonyl- 3 

mothyl-pyrazolone . 


515 , 6911 29. 35 


154. Diethyl-carbamazinoaod its salts . 


155 . Diethyl carbanyl chloride , 


156 . Diethyl ethor. 


541 . 7926 29 . 35 
NSC 29 .75 
516 . 11 29 . 08 
513. 89 29 . 15 
514 . 6044 29 , 23 


157 . Dlothyl inalouato . 


158 . Diethyl mota aminophanol . 
159. Diethylethanolamine. 
160 . Dihydrostreptomycin baso and its 

salt . 
161, 1 : 4 Dihydroxy anthraquinono 

( Quinizarino including lonco quiol 
Zarino ) . 


NSC 


29 .44 


$ 16 , 2915 29 . 13 


(15) Para Rod 

12070 NSC 1 
( 16 ) Brown Tonar 

12071 NSC 
(17) Signal Rod /Rod Topork 12085 NSC 
(18 ) oll Orange T 

12100 NSC 
( 19 ) Toluidine Red 

12120 NSC 
(20 ) Oil Brilliant Scarlet 12150 NSC 
(21 ) Oil Scarlet 

12155 NSC 
( 22) 01l Red 2R 

12170 NSC 
(23 ) Pigment Fast Maroon 12305 NSC 32 . 03 
(24 ) Permanont Red F4R 12335 NSC 
(25 ) S . F . Maroon | + 12350 NSC 
(26 ) Hello Fast Rod BB : 12370 NSC 
(27) Permanent Bordeaut 
F 2R 

12385 NSC 
(28 ) Permanent Red FRLI 2160 NSC 
(29 ) Permanont Carimine FB 12490 NSC 
( 30 ) Oil Yollow PX 

12740 NSC 
(31 ) Holio Fast yellow 126 12775 NSC : 3:32 . 999 
(32 ) Lako Red D 

15500 
(33 ) Lako Rod DBA 

15500 t 
( 34 ) Lako Rod DCA 15500531 . 5203 32 . 06 
135) Rod Lako C /LC /Vulcan ** 
Rod , 

15585 
(36 ) Lithol Red 

15630 NSC 32 . 03 
(37 ) Brilliant Lake Rod R 15800 $ 31 . 5203 32 , 0.3 
( 38 ) Rublino Tono 

15850 NSC 
( 39 ) Permanont Rod 2B 15865 NSC 
40 ) Maroon tonor 

15880 NSC 
(41) Golden Yellow GR 20045 NSC 
(42) Benzidine yellow 21090 NSC 
( 43 ) Vulcan Fast yellow CG 21095 NSC 
(44 ) Bonzidino Yellow 21100 NSC 

32 . 17 
( 45) Parmanont yellow GG 21105 NSC 
(46 ) Permanent orange G 21110 NSC 
(47) Vulcan Fast Rod B . 21120 NSC 
(48 ) Fast-Orango R 

21160 NSC 
(49 ) Oil Rod G 

26100 - NSC 
( 50 ) Oil Red 

26109 NSC 
(51 ) Ou Black 

26130 NSC 
( 52 ) Peacook Blue 

42025 NSC 82 .03 
( 53) Lake Groen 

42040 $ 31 . 920 32 . 06 
(34) Lako Violot Toner 42535 NSC 32 . 00 
(55) Ol Violet 

42335B NSC 22 . 03 
(56 ) Solvent Bluo 4 44043 531 . 5203 82 . 05 
( 57) Lako Plok 

45160 NSC 
( 58 ) Dibromofluorcucola 45370 NSC 
( 39 ) Tetrabromofluorococlo . 45380 NSC 
( 60 ) Quinolino yellow 47000 NSC 
(61) Nigrosina 

50413 331. 1222 3 2 .:15 
(62) Phthalocyanina Blue 74160 NSC 
(63) Phthalovyanino Groog Y4260 NSC 
(64) Oll Black 

77011 NSC 
(65 ) Ou Bluo 

77450 NSC 
(66 ) Vat bluo I 

13001 
(67) Indigo vat blu . I 

3000 31 . 4141 12 . 44 
(68) Roducod Vat blua I 73001 


AR 


162. 1 15 Dlhydroxy anthraquinono . NSC 29 . 13 
163. Di-mothyl benzimidazole. NSC 29.33 
164A . Dimothyl Ethanolamine . 
1648 . D . M . T . 
165. Dinltro sclbono disulpbonic acid . 511: 4039 29 .03 
166 . Diosgeolu . 

NSC NSC 
167 , Dipontano. 

311 . 2902 29 . 011 

38 . 07 
168 . Diphonylamino . 

514 .5021 29 .22 
169 . Disodium phosphates . 

523 . 22 28 .40 
170 . Duplex Board . 

NSC NSC 
171 . Organic pigment colours and oll soluble colour inne 

C .l. No. 
( 1 ) Holo Fast Yollow 12 G 
(Pigmont Gron) . 

10 531 . 9331 32. 06 
(2 ) Permanent Yollow HR 
(Pigmont Yollow . 

83 331 . 3301 32 . 06 
(3 ) Permagopt Carmina PBD 
- Plgmont Rod ) 

146 331. 5312 32 ,06 
(4 ) Quinazarina Groou Boge 1656 NSC NSC 
(3) Pigment Groa B 10006 331 . 3331 32 . 06 
( 6 ) Oil yollow AM 

11020 NSC 
(7 ) Hande Yollow IG 11660 NSC 
(8 ) Hansa Yellow 100 11710 NSC 

9 ) Oll Brilliant yolov 11800 NSC 
( 10 ) HADAA Yollow G 11860 NSC 32 . 05 
(11) of yellow AR 

11920 NSC 
( 12 ) OD frowon 

12020 NSC 
( iD OU Orange B 

1705 , NSC 
( A Fast Orang 

43069 151 702 


(69 ) Motel Complex dyw , the 

following 
W ) Yollow GR 

1394001 
( ) Bluo 2G . 

14880 
( 6 ) Vlolot . 

13685 
(1 ) Black Walk . 13711 
(0) Orane , 

18941 
(* * ) Brow H 


Dillymer 


7994 


(999 


1 


भारत का गजपत्र : असाधारण 


127 


APPENDIX 3 PART- A - Contd . 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN Code 
Code 

NSC NSC 


ITC -ker, 2 CCCN 
Code 

Code 


173 C .D .T.A . and its sodium salts . 


NSC 


NSC 


174 . Electrocast refractories with 

Zirconia content less than 40 % 


NSC 


29 . 11 


201. Glybenclamid . 
202 . Glyoxal 40 % 
203. Gold cyanido. 
204 . Graphito crucible 

upto size 300 . 


NSC 


· 29 .42 


(clay bonded) 


173. Emotine hydrochloride. 
176 . Esters /salts of para hydroxy benzoic 

acid including Mothyl Ethyl, 

Propyl. 
177. Ethinyl estradiol. 
178. Ethyl Acetate, 


205 . Graphito Crucibles (Silicon carbide 

bondod ) upto size 100 . 


663. 7001 69 , 03 


NSC NSC 
513. 7206 29 . 14 


206. Graphito eloctrodos excluding the 

slzos 21" diameter and above and 
graphite anodes (excluding midget 
carbon electrodos ). 


179. Ethyl alcohol 


512 . 1601 


02 03 


NSC 


95 , 24 


207 . Guaicol glyceryl other. 


> 16 .11 29 08 


180 . Ethylamine (mono , di, tel.) 
181 . Fitbyl chlorido 
182. Ethyl oleato . 
183 . Ethyl/Metbylacto acotate . 
184. Ethylphenyl acetatc . 


512 . 160222 03 
514 . 5049 29 . 22 
511 . 3914 29 . 02 
NSC NSC 


: 


208 . Halogendied derivativcs of 

Hydroxyquinoline , the following -- 

(1) 5 , 7-Di- logo- 3 - lıydroxyquinolme 
(1 ) 5 -Chloro - 7 -iodo -8 - hydroxy 

quinoline . 
(fil) 3, 7-Dibromo-8- hydroxyquino- 
( iv ) 5 , 7-Dichloro -8 -hydroxyquinol 


NSC 


29 . 14 


.511 . 3929 29.02 


Ing . 


183 . Ethylond damine and its derivatives , 

namely , diethylono irlamine, triethy 
lone lotrapino and polyamines , 


Uno 


186 , Ethylono uroa . 


181. Eucalyptus oil (all grades ). 


311.5023 29 .22 
NSC 31.02 
551 3015 33 . 01 
NSC 29 .08 
523 . 1206 28 .30 


188 . Eagenol acctate . 


189 . Ferric chlorido. 


190 . Farroua compounds , the following : 

(1) Perrous fumarato. 
(2) Farous gluconate, 
( 3) Parrous sulphalo . 


209 . Heparinc. 

585 , 2: 01 19 . 06 
210. Heptaldebydo (fatty aldehyde). $16 . 21 29 . 11 
211 . Hyaluronidases , 

541, 7912 30 .04 
212 . Hydrate of alunalua and glass whito NSC NSC 
213. Hydrazino Hydrato /Sulphato. 522 , 5906 28 . 28 
214. Hydrazino hydrochloride . NSC 28 . 28 
213 . Hydrochlorlc acid . 

522.2102 28.06 
216 . Hydrofluoric acid . 

$ 22 .2913 28 .13 
217. Hydroquinone. 

512 . 3602 29 .06 
218. Hydroxy citronella ). 

512 . 1902 29 . 04 


$ 13 . 7908 29. 14D 
NSC NSC 
523 . 1906 28 . 38 


191. roum compounds , mochanical (pro 

cio basod for ire fighting) . 


NSC 


NSC 


191. Formaldehyde ( other 

formaldehydo). 


than 


para 


516 2108 
NSC 


29 . 11 
29. 15 


193. Famurlo nola , 
11 . Prufarul. 


19 . Por polldeno, 


512 . 3604 29 . 06 
NSC NSC 
523 . 2403 28 , 42 
NSC 29 , 23 
NSC NSC 


NSC 29 . 35 
$32 .2101 32 ,01 
312 . 1904 29 . 04 
NSC 29 .14 


196. Gambler Bxtracis , 
197. Qanun , 


198 , Gorsuyl monials . 


219 . Insecticides, pesticides and weedi 

cides, the following i 
(1) Alpba Napthyl Acetic Acid . 
(2 ) Aurofungin . 
(3) Barium Carbonato . 
(4) Carbaryl. 
(5) Carbondazim /MBC technical 
(6 ) Chlorpoquato Chlorido includ 

Ing Cycoooll. 
( 7) Copper Acoto Arsenato. 
(8) Copper Oxychloride. 

(9 ) Coumachloro. 
(10 ) 2,4 - D . 
011 D . Vit , Vipoda ) 
112 1110eti Motor 
( 13) Duron . 


199. Glans world / chatona, ſaia poatli , 

xoopt dotorod glaw bouds (cyan 
drical plnen ) 


N $ C NSC 
NSC 29 .43 
523. 1205 28 . 30 
NSC 
NSC 29 . 39 


669. 8202 70 . 19 


NSC 


ama . Gluge Ohjatu , fabric # rovfuga 

And chum Atmoderate and 

MILICA do hetofrono Including 
obry 16 cherikets , tout ensit 
4107 X UT * ***0001 But 


" . 31 


146 941 


11. 0 " 


128 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - SEC. 1] 


EE 


. 


U 


.. 


M .LV 


. 


IMUR 


- 


W 


AY 


APPENDIX 3 PART- - - Conid 


224 . Iso Nicoinic acid . 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN Code 

Code 
541. 7937 29 38 
NSC NSC 


225 . Isophage. 
226 . Iso propyl antipyrino 
227. Isoxamine. 


NSC 


NSC 


228 . Ketonic resios 


mu 


29. 31 


het 


229 . Laboratory glasswarc Other than 
those made of quartz glass . 

665 .8102 70 . 11 
270 Lactic acid . 

$ 13 . 9008 2016 
271 . Lanolin anbydrous Adeps lan ej 

Wool fat (all grades ) excluding wool 
grease . 

411. 3400 15 os 
232 . Lanthanum oxides/salts . 

NSC 28 os 
233 . Laurylperoxide. 

NSC 29 .14 
234. Lead nitrate. 

NSC 28 .29 
235 . Lead stearate . 

513 . 7929 29 . 11 
236 . Lemon grass oil. 

551.3025 33 .01 
237. Lignocaine and fignoquine hydro 
chloride, 

541 . 7916 . 30 UI 


17C - Rev . 2 CCCN 

Code Code 
(14 ) Ethion 

NSC 29 , 31 
(15 ) Ethylene dichloride and carbon 

tetrachloride mixture . 511. 3915 29 .02 
(16 ) Ethyl mercury chloride. 511 .3914 29. 33 
(17) Penitrothion 

NSC NSC 
(18 ) Fenthion 
(19) Ferric dimethyldithio carbama 
te (Ferbam ). 

NSC 
(20) Fluchloralik. 
(21) Formulations of those pesticides 

which are based on technical - - 

pesticides included in OGL 
(22 ) Lindane 

591. 1015 38 . 11 
(23 ) Lime Sulphur 

522 . 1503 28 . 02 
( 24 ) Manganese Ethylene bis dithia 
carbarmate (Manab ). 

689 . 9914 81 . 04 
(25) Metaldehyde. 

NSC 29 . 11 
(26 ) Methoxyethyl mercury chloride 523 . 1208 29 . 33 
(27) Methyl Parathion 

591, 1018 38 . 11 
(28 ) Monocrotophos ( Technical). NSC NSC 
(29) Nickel chloride . 

NSC 28 . 30 
(30 ) Nicotine sulphate. 

541. 1017 29 . 42 
( 31 ) Oxydemeton- O - Methyl 

(Metasystox ) . 
(32) Para di-Chloro benzene NSC 29 . 02 
( 33) PCP 

NSC 

NSC 
(34 ) Paraquat dimethyl sulphate /para 

quat dichloride. 
(35) Phenyl mercury acetate . NSC 29 . 33 
(36) Phosalone . 
(37) Phosphamidoo Technicul, NSC NSC 
(38 ) Phorate . 

NSC 

29 . 31 
(39 ) Pyrethrum - preparations conta . 
ining this item , 

292 . 4026 12 .07 

13 .03/ 

38 , 11 
(40 ) Quinalphos 

NSC NSC 
(41) Streptocycline 

NSC 

29 . 44 
(42) TCA 

NSC NSC 
(43) Thanito . 

NSC 

NSC 
(44) TMT ( Thiuram ). 

591 . 2004 38 . 11 
(45) Warfarin , 

NSC NSC 
(46 ) Wettable sulphur sulphur dust . NSC 25 .03 
(47) Zinc phosphide. 

523 . 9201 28 . 59 
(48) Zinc dimethyl dithio -carbamata 
(Ziram ). 

591 .2006 38 . 11 
(49 ) Zinc ethylenc bis dithio -carbo 

nato , (Zineb ) other than Zineb 

Technical 85 % and above . 591 . 2005 38 . 11 
220 . Ionone 100 % including pseudo 
lonone. 

29 . 13 
021. Iron amocglum citral 

Cl 792 79 . 11 
122 . Iroo bromide 
223. leo -butyl pheayi 


re 


238 . Litbarge /Ret lead /White load . $ 22 . 4702 28 27 

to . 4709 
233. Magnesium compounds, the following : 

(1) Magnesium carbonate (heavy ) 523.2405 28 .42 
(2 ) Magnesium chlorido. 

523 . 1207 28 . 30 
( 3 ) Magnesium cbromate , other 

than analytical reagent grade . NSC 28 . 41 
(4) Magnesium hydroxido . 522 . 5503 25 i 
(5) Magnesium sulphate (Epsom 

523 . 19 21 & 
(0 ) Magnesium 11061214 . 

513 , 7929 
17 ) Magnesium trisilicate . $ 41. 7942 48 . 45 
240 Maleic anhydride . 

$ 13. 8104 09 .15 
241 . Meclozive and its 114 , 

NSC 19 . 35 


242 . Molamina 


513. 6915 29 . 33 
412 .2004 3 .03 


243. Monthoi, ali gradok . 
214 . Meprobamait. 
245, Mercurochrome. 
246. Mercury chloride (niercurout and 

mersurici, 
207 . Mercury louds 
248 . Mecny valde 
249. Meta -amioopbedol. 


523 .3119 28 .47 
NSC 28 34 
522 .5908 28 . 28 


14 , 6017 29 21 


* * * * 


45 


°B 


[ T IE11 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


129 


ht 


BER 


S 


. .. 


LUULLA 


APPENDIX 3 PART A - Conia . 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 

Code . 


Code 
NSC 


283. 4.-.-Nitro diphenyl amine 


29 .03 


284 . Nitro - furatoin . 


NSC 


NSC 


285 . Nitro - furazone. 


NSC 


29 . 35 


286 . N -methyl piperazine. 


ITC Rev. 2 f CCCN Code 

Code 
252. Metal Graphite Carbon Blocks. 978.8703 85.24 
253 . Metallised Polyester Films 
254 . Metanillic acid 

514 .6054 29 . 23 
255. Metanítro chloro benzene 

511. 4014 29 . 03 
256 . Meta nitro para toluidine 514 .5034 29 . 22 
257. Meta nitrotoluene. 

511 .4021 29 .03 
258 . Metaphenylene diaminc . 

514 .5032 29 .22 
259 . Methacarbamol. 

NSC NSC 
260 . Methanamine mandolate . 

NSC NSC 
261 . Methylamine (mono , di and tri). NSC 29. 22 
262 . Methyl ethyl ketone peroxide. 516 .2400 29 . 13B 


287 , N : N dimethyl aniline. 


NSC 29 . 35 
514 . 5007 29 . 22 
514 . 5021 29 . 22 


288. Nitroso diphenylamine . 


289 . Non - woven fabrics used as inter 

linings both plain fusible and polye 
ester waddings . 


657. 21 
657 . 31 


59 .03 ) 
$ 9 . 07 


290 . Normal human serum albumin and 

normal immunoglobulin serum 
human (Gamma Globulin ). 


592 .2209 35 02 


263 . Methyl, ethyl and propyl esters of 

parahydroxy benzoic acid 


291 . Nylon /Polyester fibre tips and syn 

thatic fibre for sketch pens. 


895 . 2109 


98 . 03 


582 .4101 39 .01 


292 . Nylon moulding powder /chips 
293 . Octyl-titanate and other titanium 

alkoxides . 


264. Methyl ionone . 
265 . Methyl phenyl acetate . 
266 . Methyl salicylate . 
267, Methyl testoterone , 
268 . Milk powder (all types ). 
269. Mirrors, all types . 


513 . 7907 29 . 14D 
NSC NSC 
NSC 29 . 14 
513 . 9011 29 . 16 
541.5904 29 . 39D 
022 .43 04 .02 
664 .8 70 .09 


NSC NSC 
292 . 2247 13 . 02 


294 . Oleoresin capsicum . 
295. Oleoresin ginger . 


292 . 2244 13 .02 


292 . 2245 


13 . 02 


296 . Oleoresin pepper . 
297. Organic surface active agents , the 

following : 


270 . Mohair fabrics /tops/yarn /waste . 


651 .2 


53 . 05 


271. Mono chloro acetic acid and its salts. 654 . 2 $ 3 . 11 

513 . 7103 29 . 14 


(1) Aqueous Film Forming Foam 

(AFFF ) 


NSC 


NSC 


272 . Mono methyl amino antipyrine. 
273 . Mono -sodium phosphates . 
274 . Musk ambrettec . 


NSC 29 .35 
523 . 2217 28 . 10 
511 . 4007 29 . 03 


( 11 ) Ethylene Oxide Condensates 516 . 1300 29 . 09 
(a ) Ethylene Oxide Condensates 

of Alkyl Phenols (Octyl, 
Nonyl, Dinonyl etc .) NSC 344 . 02 


275 . Naphthol colours. 


NSC 


NSC 


(6 ) Ethylene Oxide Condensa 

tes of Fatty Alcohols 
(Laury ), oleyl, oetyl Ceto 
Stearyl, Cetyl, stearyl etc .). NSC 


34 . 02 


- NSC 


NSC 


(c) Ethylene Oxide conden 

sates of Fatty Amines 
( Cocoamine, Stearyl Amine , 
etc .). 

NSC 


NSC 

29 . 15 
513 .8904 29. 15 


276 . N - Acetyl sulphanilyl-chloride . 
277 . N -Butyl diethyl malonato . 
278 . N -Butyl malonic acid . 
279 . Napthionic acid / sodium 

naphthionate . 
280 . Natural diamond in powder form . 


34 .02 


( ii ) imidazolines, Betairs , Propiones 
tes , Amino Oxides . 

NSC 


514 .6054 29 . 23 


34 .02 


277 . 2100 


71.04 


Kow ) Quaternary Aminonium Con 

pounds like Alkyl Triethyl Am « 
monium Chloride etc . or any 
speciality compounds. 


$ 14 .8102 34 .02 


281 . Nickel compounds, the followings 

(1) Nickei ummonium sulphate . 
(2 ) Nickel carbonate . 
(3) Nickel formate . 
(4 ) Nickol sulphate . 


(v ) Sodium tuuryi cther sulphate 

and Sodium lauryl sulphate . 


NSC 


34 . 02 


562 . 1300 
NSC 
NSC 
NSC 


28 . 38 
28 . 42 
29 . 14 
28 , 38 


( ) Ini-ethanolamino lauryl 

sulphat . 


34 . 02 


282 Nitro -cellulose . 


1 


298 . Ortho anisidine . 


314 606 29 23 


130 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I- SEC . 11 


SUND 


APPENDIX 3 TAKIA -- Conid 


299 . Ortho dichlorobenzeus 
300 . Ortho nitro aniline. 
301 . Ortho nitroanisole . 
302 . Ortho phenylene diamine. 
303. Ortho toluene sulphooannide. 
304. Ortho tolvdire (O .T. liquid ) 
305. Oxalic acid . 
306 . Oxyphenyl butazon : 
307. Paints . 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 

Code Code 
311 . 3913 29 . 02 
$ 14 . 5028 29. 22 
$ 16. 111) 29 .08 
NSC 29.22 
15. 7100 24 .36 


13. 890 


24 . 15 


17c - Repy 2 CCCN 

Code Code 
. 3 . Phenyi acetic acid 

$ 13 . 7211 29 . 24 
334 . Phenyl acetamide . 

NSC 29. 25 
335. Phenyi butazone 

NSC 29 .25 
336 . Phenyl ethyl acetate . 

NSC 29 . 14 
337, Phenyl ethyl alcohol. 

$12 .2005 29 .05 
338 . Phenyi ethyl phenyl acetate 

NSC 29 . 14 
339 . Phosphorous pentoxide. 

522 .2402 28 . 10 
340 . Phthalate plasticiseis . 

598 9915 38 19 
341 Phtbalic anhydride (PANI 513 .8200 29 . 15 
142. Phthalylsulphathiazole 

541 . 7955 30 .03 
M3 Picoline, alpha 

31.1 .59 29 , 35 
344, Pine oil. 

398 i3u2 38 . 07 
343. Pine lai 

598 , 1901 38 . 09 
346 . Plasticizer Alcohuis (C . C . 12cm 
straight chain . 

NSC 

NSC 
147. Plastic woven tapesi sacks 

NSC 
48 . Polyamide/ Polyester chips ol te 11 
and plastic grades. 

NS : 39 . 01 
319 . Polyester resins (unsaturated ) 
350 . Polyethylene glycol 

582 . J103 39 . 01 
331. Polypropylene blm (plain /mota ilised ) 

other than those required for elec 
tronic industry . . 

39 . 02 
352 . Polyurethane foam /sheets lacluding 

laminations thereof . 


*** 


MB 


308 . Paints driers (naphthenatos, iudices, 

linoleates , etc . of lead , cobalt , man 

ganese , zinc, calcium , etc .). 
309 . Palmarosa oil. 

151. 30 1 $391 
310 . Palladium chloride . 
311 . Papain . 

3 .6 . 9107 29 . 10 
312 . Paper stationery iraus. 

$ 11 . 21 1 .01 
313. Para amino salicylic acid and is 

salts 
314 . Para anisidinc 
315 . Para cresyl acetate 

NSC 29 . 14 
316 . Para oltro phenol and iis saith. 
319. Para---nitratoluenc-o-sulphonic acid. 311 .4024 29 03 
318 . Paraphenetidige . 

$ 14 .6003 29 23 
319. Para toluene sulphonamde. 513 , 7100 29. 
320 . Para toluidino . 

311 ,5038 29.22 
321. Pearl essenco. 

NSC 12 . 14 
322 . Penicillin o (sodium /potassium 

procaine ) and phenoxy methyi pepi 
cillin . 


4 


NSC 


39. 


$ 33. Polyvinyl chloride plastic filin and 

sheats, all sorts (upto 70°C Vicat 

softening point). 
334 , Postei and water colours . 
355, Potassium Copounds, the follow . 


$ 83. 4 
333 . 5200 


$9 .02 
32 . 10 


(1 ) Potasiun acotato , 


2 . 


1 . 


29 . 034 


323. Pentachlorophenol and its Sullam 

salts. 
324. Peolaarythritol (all grades 
325. Popper oil, 
326. Peppermint of (ex Meathi ANS 


( 2) Potassium bitartarato . 
(3) Potassium bromidc (other than 

photograpbic grade ). 


NSC 29 .16 
$ 13. 9012 29. 10 
$23 .2901 28 .33 
313 . 413 29 . 10 


91 3033 33 .61 


141 Potassium citrate . 


(% ) Polarsium forricyanide . 


323 , 25044 


28 . 03 


(6 ) Potassiuro bydrogeo taitarate 

(Creard of Tartar) . 


$ 13 . 902y 


29 . 16 


327 . Peptone. 

382 .2401 38 114 
328 . Phonazopyridine . 
329 . Phonazopyridine hydroublorida . 
330 . Phenobarbitone 
331, Phonolic , urcd/melau oc ,alkyd /od leto 

resins / composition f /xy othet.dk 


(1 ) Potassium Iodido. 


$ 23 2912 28 . 34 
523 . 3102 28 . 49 


(8 ) Potassium permanganat* . 


(9 ) Poweguin dodium tertarata 

(Rochelle wali 


$ 41 . 1997 29 . 16 

H . 19 . 


Y 


# 
he 


piro di perih 


AY 


(am I- 


1] 


भारत का राजपन्न असाधारण 


131 


YILM 


A 


- 


WWW 

. 
WALHUS 


www. 
LUM 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDI & PART- A - Conid 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 

Code Code 


. 


( 11) Potassium guiacol Sulphonate 

( Thiacol/Potassium Sulfoguiaco 

late ) . 
(12 ) Potassium dichromate . 

(13) Potassium gold cyanide 
356 . Precipitated silica (excluding colloi 

dal and fumed ). 


516 . 1113 29 . 08 
523 .3101 28 . 47 


NSC 


28 . 13 


ITO Rev. 2 CCCN 

Code Code 
(ii) Antioxidants . 

598 .9902 38 .19 
(1) N -Phenyl-N - Isopropyl-P . 

phenylene diamine. NSC 29. 22 
(2 ) N - 1, 3- di-methyl butyl- N 

phenyl-p -phenylene diamine. NSC 29 . 22 
(3 ) Condensation product of 

acetone and di-pheny 

lamine ( solid and liquid .) NSC 29 .22 
( 4 ) (a ) Mixture of N -phenyl- N 

tolyl- p - phenylene diamine 
N -phenyl- N - phenyl- p - pheny 
lene diamine and N - tolyl 
N - tolyl-p -phenylene diamino. NSC 38. 19 
(b ) 1, 2 -dihydro - 2, 2,4 , tri 

mehyl quineline polymerised . NSC NSC 
(5 ) Phenyl beta naphthyl amine . 514 . 5034 29 . 22 


357. Printing and writing inks including 

ball pen inks (but excluding 
* heat- set hot carbonised printing ink 
-- for printing industry only ) . 


533.2 
NSC 


32 . 13 
29. 36 


358 . Probenocid . 


399 . Products made of cork , natural or 

waste excluding shuttle cork bottom 
and cork powder of 200 mesh and 
fineness . 

244 .0 45 . 01 
360 . Progesterone. 

541.5905 29 .39 
361. Propantheline bromide . 

NSC NSC 
362. Prussian blue. 

NSC 32 .07 
363. PTFB sheets /rods . 

NSC 39.01 
364. PVC compounds except for the 

manufacture of gramaphone records. 583. 4 39 . 02 


370 . Rubber products inclusive of pro 

ducts from natural and /or synthetic 
rubber and accessories excluding 
the following 


621 


40 . 05 


(1) Oil scals , bushings , O Rings 

and tyres / tubes (including flaps 
in equal numbers) for auto 
motive application , 


NSC 


NSC 


365. PVC leather cloth of all sorts in 

cluding PU leather cloth . 


( 1) Drive rubber belts, rubber 

rings , rubber cushions and 
rubber rollers for tapo rocor . 
ders /tapo deck -mechapislm . 


657 . 3201 59 .08 


NSC 


40 . 10 


366 . Raro earth fluoride . 


524 . 9200 28 .52 
278.9908 28 ,32 


(ID Rubber blankets , for drafting 

machines and condensors 
rubbing aprons woolen cards, 


367 . Rare earth puro . 


NSC 


40 . 16 


368 . Refractory bricks and shapes mino . 

lith ramming massos mortars fo 
cluding dead burnt magnesite with 
more than 6 % silica content 


663 , 


69 .03 


371. R . Salt . 
372 . Saffron . 
393 . Salicylamide 
394. Sandal wood oll including synthetic 

sandal wood oil. 


278 . 3001 
073 .2804 
341 . 7968 


25 . 01 
09 . 10 
30 . 03 


$51. 3035 
NSC 


33 . 01 
29 . 38 


393 . Santonia . 


NSC 


309 . Rubber chemicals , the following ! 598 . 9917 38 . 19 
(1) Accelerators ! 

$ 98 . 3300 38 . 13 
(1) 2-Mercaptobenzothazols 
and its Zn salt. 

29 . 39 
(2 ) Dibenzothlazyi disulphido . NSC 29 . 31 
(3 ) Tetramethyl Thiuram disal 
phido . 

591 . 2004 38 . 11 
N - Cyclothexyl - 2 -Bonzo 
thiazyl sulphenamido. $14 . 3014 29 . 22 
Benzothlazyl- 2-tert -butyl 
sulphenamide. 

29 . 33 
( 6 ) Boozothiazyl- 2 - Suphonomas 

pholide and its blend with 

Diabonzothiazyl disulphide. NSC 38 15 
(v ) Bonzothiazyl- 2 - decylohexyl 
Sulpbenamide. 

NSC NSC 
(8 ) Biels us Dibenzotblazyl di. 

sulphudith Dipbenyl gua 


# 


396 . Sera nad vaccines , the following 

(1) Anti- inioanza vaccise, 
(2) Anti-rabie vaccine. 
(3 ) Anti-venom serum 
( 4) Cholen vuoci 
( ) T .A . vaccin 
( 5 ) 心急最缺德無無 - fy等多越 
(7) Triple vaccine 


341 .6429 30 . 02 
541 . 6429 30 .02 
541 . 6429 30 . 02 
541 6411 
541 6414 
541 6413 


NSC 


541 . 6429 


791. Sbeats /tapes /stripo- Polyethylene, 

Polystyrene, PVC and ARS 


$47 1301 79 02 


378 . 


a mi 


9 ) Za - N - 

D 
por 


y fhicxer 


$ 27 2016 28 17 
NSC 101 


379 . * 


132 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1-- Sec . 1 


MEN U 


- 


ur 


PPLNDIY 3 PART- A - Canid 


( 7 * Kev . 2 


OCN 
Codr 


fo.de 


20 Silk faris thred yarn / 


unis 


Code Code 
523 . 3105 28 .47 


65 


(29 ) Sodius dichromile . 


331. Silver nitrate. 


523 32011 25. 44 


382 . Silver protein , mild and stroug 


(30 ) Sodium Gold cyanide 

(31) Sodium borate 
385, Sodium Metal 
386 . Sorbitol, 


383. Sisal yarn 


si 


selle 


12 . 1915 29 . 04 


384 . Sodiar compounds , ilu following : 


( 11 Sodiuni acetate . 


*87. Syya a . I . poluding pildir , 

condui , fertury andw Wyver 


150 


( 2 ) Sodiuin algindiye other 

dental grade . 


. 


350 Siuins 


ay D05- 13xluules and supplies, 601 100 71 . 0 . 

somi paccious and precious 667, 3101 71 . 02 
stories, peails ( rcal or cultured ) 667 .2900 71 .02 
and rough diamods; and 667 , 1004 71 .01 


( 8 ) Synthetic stones ( olici that 

synthetic ruby , unworked ), 
finished /unworked . 


X 


389 . Sıralyl acetate ( Phenyl 

Carbaryl aceratej. 


50 . Strontium carbunáte , 


methy 

MC VC 

? 2214 28 , 45 
VSC 28.38 
NSC 29 -07 


391 Strontium nitrato . 
192 Styphenic acid . 


393. Styrenated phenols . 


(3 ) Sodium alumunute 

* " 3105 
(4) Sodium amide 

113C 3353 
(5) Sodium azide 

NSC 9.21 
(6 ) Sodium bicarbunale . 

23 2403 25 .42 
(7 ) Sodium bi-sulphite . 

23 . 1702 28. 37 
(8) Sodium carbonate , fused blocks. 523 .2419 28 4 
19 ) Sodium citrate . 

NSC 
(10 ) Sodium formato . 

VSC 14 
(11) Sodium hexametaphosphate . NSC 28 FAX 
(12) Sodium hydrosulphite . 523. 1701 13 . 37 
(13) Sodium iodide. 

NSC 28 . 34 
(14) Sodium lauryl sulphate. NSC 14 . 02 
( 15) Sodium metabisulphato. NC 18 .42 
( 16 ) Sodium moly bulate . 

23 .3100 28 . 4 ? 
( 17) Sodium nitrate . 

523 . 2101 25 39 
(18) Sodium aitre 
(19 ) Sodium orthosiputt NSC 545 
(20 ) Sodium perborate . 

MC 28 46 
(21) Sodium phosphate (mun JOJ 

$ 23 . 2217 . 16 
(22 ) Sodium sesquisılıcuts . 

28 . 


30 
NSC 


NSC 
38 13 


394. Sub-merged arc welding flutes . 


195 . Succinates 

succinate , 


Other 


than 


Succinyi 


396 . Sullamic acid , 


NSC 

29 .15 
NSC 

28 13 
$41. 7905 29 30 
NSC 29 36 


397 Sulphadiazine. 


348 Siirhamethazole 


199. Sulpbinilic acid 


514 6074 29. 22 


400 . Sulphaphenazole 


NSC 


29 . 36 


401. Sulphatu oſ alumina ( utic and 

iron fret ). 


523. 1901 28 . 33 


$U2 . Sulphathiazole , 


s ! 7904 29 Sv 


(23 ) Sodium silicate (suun kais 

silicate ). 


3 . 210113 IS 


103 . Sulpbuo addontelaciunwicului. 

nated products of neats l out oil , 
codliver oil and sperm oil 


(24) Sodium whico Ouusk 


i inch 


8 . 24 


104. Synthuilt for exchange . 

chunge ( o is only . 


Hon ex 


(25) Sodium vulpbil. 
126 ) Sodiuto « uiphuc, Jil gusle : 


2 , 10 * 1 . 7 


405 . jannis wid 


NSC 
ASC 
313 7213 


NSC 
32.02 
29 . 14 


( 27) Soinu : jauhule this te ?) ! 


406 Tepirja 


4 : 21794 


290 


18, Sodium Cricksly 


* 3 


i el diury buty 


valecho ! 


[ art I--- 


1] 


मारस का राजपत्र अमाधारण 


133 


pravne 


- 


- 


--_ - - = 


= = - - - 


- 


= 


= 


A 


- - - 


-- = 


- 


ALAY 


S - - -- - - - - - - - - 


I 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - -- - - - - - - - 


- - 


APPENDIX 3 PART- A -- Contd 


17C Rev . 2 CCCN 

Cod Cod 


ITC - Rev. 2 

Code 
NSC 


CCCN 

Codi 
NSC 


# 09 , Testosterono , festextcrono propio 

matc , testosterone valctute an esto 


15 ) Mase minjturc ( flnis 


/.\\ 
۱۹۶۱و 
۱۱۴ 

FI.14 


411 


24 


( 1 ) 110 1111110 x 11 .tw 

tyric fit caplll. lire al 31.) 
( 8 ) Person ) monitoring films. 


410 . Tetramisole Hydrochloıldc. 


NSC 


NSC 


M 
NSC 


$11. Theophylline ethanonte of plexura 

zinc . 


(9 ) Spocial types of films usod for 

serial changers. 


NSC 


used for NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


412 . Thlacetazonc. 


NSC 


29 , 31 


413 . Thorium compounds (thorlum 

nitrate and thorium oxide), 


524 . 9200 28 . 52 
121 . 1 24 . 01 


434 . Yara Yara (beta napthol methyl 
ether ). 

NSC 

29 , 08 
435 . Yobimbine hydrochlorido . 

NSU 29 . 42 
436 . Yttrium concentrates , 

278. 9908 25 .32 


414 . Tobacco -unamanufactured / filtor. 


NSC 


28 . 30 


NSC 27 . 10 
523. 2213 29 .40 


437. Zing chloride. 
438 . Zinc oxido. 


415. Transformer oil (non inflammable / 

synthetic). 
416 . Tri-calcium phospbatc . 
417. Tricholine Citrate. 
418 . Trichlorobenzene . 
419. Tricholoroethyleno . 


522 4101 28. 19 
NSC NSC 


NSC 


29 02 


439. Ziqo stoarato 
440 . Zinc sulphate 
441. Zino undocylenato . 


NSC 


NSC 


420 . 1 : 7 : 7 Trimethyl bicyclo [2 , 2 , 1) 

- 2 Hoptanone and /ori : 7 : 7 Heptonc NSC 


NSC 


Engineering and allied Items : 


442 , AAC /ACSR conductors and alumi 

nium busburs . 


NSC 


85.19 


421. Triplo superphosphate ( industrial 

grade). 
422. Trisod /um phosphate 
423. Ultramarine blue. 
424. Undecylenic acid . 


562 . 2200 31 .03 
523 , 2215 28 . 40 
NSC 30 . 07 


443 . A . C . starters upto 660 Volts ratings 

and upto 250 AMP ( for L . T . appli 
cation ). 


444. Actuators for valves. 


513 . 7924 29. 140 


778 . 3106 85 . 08 
NSC 84 .61 
NSC 73 . 40 
743 .1001 84 .11 


425 , Uniokod nylon ribbon tape from 

1/ 2 " to 18 - 1/ 4 " both ends clectrically 
welded required for tho manufacturc 
of Typewritor /Computer ribbons. 


445, Agricultural stool discs . 
446 . Air and gas compressors. 


759 , 1100 84 . 55 


426 . Vanadium pontoxide /Vanadium 

pentoxido Catalyst . 


NSC 28. 28 
NSC 29 . 14 
351 3037 33 01 


447. All types of clectrical lighting fittings, 

including chokes, starters and reflec 
tors, 

771 . 2201 
448 . Alternators upto 2000 K . V . A . NSC 


85.01 
85 .01 


427. Votiver acetatc . 


428 . Vetiver oil. 


449 . Aluminium collapsible tubes, 

rigid cans and containers . 


691 . 2500 76 . 06 


429. Viscoso filament yarn 600 donler 

and above , including viscosc tyre 

yar . 
430 . Vitamin B - 12 . 


651. 7319 51 , 01 
541 . 1015 29 . 38 
641 8911 48 , 070 


450 . Assemblies /Sub -assemblies , the 

following 3 
( 1) Electric motor -- all typos not 

elsewhere specifiod . 


431. Waxed paper. 


472 . Wood preservatives of the type of 

solignuin and gold chloride. 


716 , 01 
NSC 
743 . 1001 
NSC 


85.01A 
NSC 
84 . 11 


(2) Cable recling drum . 
(3) Conipressors all types. 
(4 ) Cold Box /Chamber . 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


433. X -ray films (medical) excluding the 

following types 
(1 ) Cinc angiographic films. 


882 . 2101 37 . 01 


NSC 


NSC 


(5 ) Coluinn as required in Industrial 

machinery including chemical 
and air-separation plant . NSC 


NSC 


NSC 
NSC 


(6) Cooling coils and tube bundles, NSC 


NSC 


(2) Copying Alms. 

NSC 
(3 ) Dental Olms, 

NSC 
(4 ) Filins for 180 without 

screens. 
(9) fotlose mammogrphic films NSC 


(7 ) Complete engines including ex 

pansion cugines . 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


NSÉ 


(8 ) Circuit breakers 


NSC 


85, 19 


134 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PARY K - SEC . 1 ] 


APPENDIX : PAIT- A - Contd . 


TEO Avv. 2 CCON 

Codo Code 
718. 8200 84 .07 


ITC Rev . 2 CCCN 

Code Code 


( 9 ) Turbind , all typer 


theroof bavlog Internal dia , 8 min to 
85 mm excluding the following : 


749 . 1 


8 .1.62 


114, 11) 


( 10 ) Furnaces , oveni 

types in giren . 


541..4201 84 . 14 


(11) Ball and roller grinding mills , 


737 . 2100 84 . 4 


(12 ) Evaporators. 


NSC 


NSC 
84 22 


(13 ) Rope drum assembly , 


NSC 


(14 ) Mecbanical hoiat drive , and 

boom holst . 


NSC 


84 . 22 


(15) Trolly assembly. 


NSC 


( 16) Hydraulic control Assembly . 


NSC 


NSC 


0 ) Bearing cuivalent t3 KM 

Nos . NU - 206, NU -212 , NU 
214 . NUP -309 N . NUP-310 
N , NJ-310 , NJ- 311 , NJ-313 , 
SKF No . 309397 , 39565 E . 
3205 , 362123, 51205 , 51203 , 
Clutch reloase bearing No . 05 
3151049 001, SKF 16007, SKF 
1203, 4303 ANR IN 9 , 
612645 E , NA- 44143/ 44363 
D . T - 1260 , RNU - 306 , BN 
15759 , SKF 8211, SKF 1308 , 
UM -7207- B - 101, UM - 1306 - B 
104 , Nippon Solko bearing 
No . 35 TMK 29 CI /C330309 , 
TIMT- 126 (Axial Roller Boar 
Ing ), PAG -CD 521618 , CD 
521618 T , FAG 3309 DAMA , 
STEYR - 1933211 SKF NU 
2305 C 2 . SKP N 309 CM 
86 , NJ-2211 CAM -6 , SKF 
K -492A CUP, K -497 - Cono , 
495/493 , 395/8 /394 AS , 
43125 /43312, 02473/02420 , 
212047/212010, 51108 X N6153 
V3, TIM T- 126 , TIM T 
47W , SFK 210 - ZZ NR 
Polard ZZ 155 . Hotfinann 
6180K / 2 NSR 40 Y 9886 ) 
14 , Pollard MJ 1 , 1 /8 374251 
37625 . 


(17 ) Hoat-Exchanger 


(18 ) Pressuro Vosselt 


(19 ) Drlons 


( 20 ) Dished Ends 


431, Automotlve components, the folloy . 

Ingi 


173. 7203 85. 00 


(1) Fana . 
( ) Cables for speedomotors and 

tadmotors . 


NSC NSC 
773 , 7901 85 . 06 


(11) Super precision bearings viz. 

P -6 P - 2 or ABEC - 5 to 
ABEC - 9 for machine tool 
Industry aro cxcluded . 


( 3 ) Cut outs and regulator 


(4 ) Filters /aloanor assembly -- -alr 

fuel or lubricating oil. 


433. Battery climinator . 


NSC 


NSC 


334 . 3101 84 . 18 


434. Bloyclo 

lamps . 


dydamo 


gots including 


785 . 3909 87 . 12 


(5) Electrio horos and components 

thero of oxoopt tungston disc 
and tuogaton contacts . 


778 . 3202 83 , 09 


455 . Bloycle tyrcs/ tubes 


625 . 4001 , 40 . 11 

4002 


(6) Hub capu . 


NSC 


NSC 


(1) Roflootors Including rear vlow 

mirrors . 


664 , 8 


70 . 09 


456 . Bimetal/ trimetal multimotal beurings 

and bushes including engine 
bearings Ard bushes, semifinished/ 
under -sized / oversized . 

NSC 


84 . 63 


(8 ) Shacklos, shacklo plno , U -bolts , 

contro bolts clip and pressuro 
platos (1. c. thoso used on tho 
loat string assemblies exclud 
log those of clutch Assembllos ). 699 . 32 


457 . Binocular heads , other than stero 

zoom typc . 


73 . 34 


8710102 90 . 05 


458. Brake cables and control cables. 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


459. Brass and bronzo electrodos rods / 

wires . 


682 .2112 74 .03 


(9 ) Silencers or pufflers , tall pipes 

and oxtensions theroof, 
( 10 ) Sient chapnols . 
(11) Spark plugs cxcluding avlation 

spark plugs. 
(12) Taxi faro moters . 


778 . 3103 83 . 08 
873 .2002 90 .27 


460 . Bright steelbars /rounds /rods /squares 

Flats / hexagons/Octagons and other 
profiles of stocl/carbon and alloy 
stoel including froe cutting quality 
and Stainless / heat resisting stcel 
in all grades . 

673 . 24 73 . 15 


432 . Ball , cylindrical, tapor, Epherical 

and other roller bearingo locluding 
oompononts thereof having Interna) 
dla . 10 mm to 8 $ nm and 
Doodlo roller boarings, noodle bushes 
and noodle cage and componenta 


461. Bright steel rounds of non -cobalt 

bearing high speed steel 6 dim 10 
40 mm dla in any finsh . 


NSC 


73 . 15 


( 9731 ( 


1) 


भारतका राजपत समाधारण 


135 


4 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 3 TARY-A - Conid 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 

Coda Code 
Components of refrigeration /air 
vouditionina compressors, the 
lollowing 


ITC Ror, 2 CCCN 
Co 

Code 
462. Cables andwoul 

* * Au lypes of plexrca che 

ADU wirey for ratingy upto any 
Including 132 KV but onclud 
Ing flat/fat flexible cablog 
other than those for T . Y . 
antenna connoctlong, 

773 1 85 27 
(6 ) Telecommunication cablon 

and wires all types including 
telephono cables and cordages . 7731 


0 ) Crapl # haſt and its assedihls 


NSC 


84 63 


(1 ) Connecting rods and 

Assembly . 


118 


NSC 


84 63 


( III ) Cylindor. 


NSC 


84 . 11 
84 . 11 


( iv ) Maton 


NSC 


483 . Cadmium octal. 


(v ) Compressor body shell/ 

housing and compressor cast 
Ing/housing top and bottom . 


NSE 


NSC 


464 . Carbon stcol flanges discs. of all 

sizos upto 1000 mm and rings of all 
şizos upto 1500 mm nominal boro 
And OD . 2000 mm . 

NSC 


84 


84 11 


NSC 


478 . Compononts of timo- ploces (other 

than thoso in Appendix 6 List 8 
part - 1) and clocks ( excluding 
electronic componente ). 


885 . 1400 NSC 


46 % . Cast fron and cost stool rolle ( finish 

cd volght por roll upto 30 tonnos ), 
for Industrial uso . 

NSC 


13 . 10 


466 . Cast Iron spun pipon upto 950 mm 
dla . 

" 


Components of overload protec 
tion colays for alr -conditioning and 
refrigeration application , tho follow 


678 .1 


73 . 17 


467. Contrifugal pumpi, upto 100mm x 

100mm sizo . 


742 . 2001 84 . 10 


NSC 


( ) Bimetallic disc 
( II) Shoot potal componentn . 


NSC 
NSC 


NSC 


468 . Cold rolled hard drawn phosphor 

bronzo rods upto 50 mm dia /sq. 


682 . 2122 94 , 04 


(It ) Plastto moulding CASOT 

Components. 


and 


NSC 


NSC 


469 . Components of air conditioning 

and refrigeration cquipmont other 
than those specifiod in Appendix 6 
List 8 Part - 1. 


741. 49/ 
741 $ 


84 121 

$ 


( lv) Power clomontazombly. 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


85 , 19 


470 . Components of photo - copying 

machines excluding clootronic 
components . 


(v) Mango 
(v ) Coatact platos 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


85 . 19 


471 . Components of Camora ( other than 

video camera and Cipomatographic 
camora ), tho following 


478 . Component of vacuum cleaport/ 

icrubben 


449 Components of solopold valves for 

air -conditioning and refrigeration 
application , the following 1 


(1) Shoot metal compondato 


NSC 


NSC 


1. Main body /caso back cover 
2 . Shutter systom . 
3. Lons system . 
4 . Vlow flador. 
5. Fim transport system . 
6. Rango Andar . 


NSC 
NSC 
NSC 
NSC 
NSC 
NSC 


90 OP 
90 , 02 
90 ,02 
50 . 07 
90 . 07 
90 . 14 


(1 ) Coils /colls asserubly. 


NSC 


NSC 


( II ) Switch Assembly 


NSC 


85. 19 


(lv) Outor Casing /prese components . NSC 


NSC 


472 . Components of domestlo vacuum 

Masks. 


NSC 


NSC 


(80 . Components of expansion valves 

for air- conditioning and refrigera 
tion application , the following : 


477 . Compononts of foutwear exclud 

ing unit soles, 


NSC 


NSC 


(1) Valvo housing . 


NSC 


474 , Components of thermostats for 

air - conditioning and rofrigeration 
application , the following 


( II ) Spindles 


NSC 


84 .61 
84 61 
84 . 18 


(II ) Stalnors 


NSC 


NSO 


83 . 08 


(In ) Bollow assembly 


! 


NSC 


83 . 08 


NSC 


83 . 19 


(1) Bollow assembly 
( 11 ) Switch Assembly . 
(II ) Sheet metal components 
(In Shoot metal casing 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


41 Components of oleetric fane 
* *? Components of Jute MillMachinery 


NSC 


NSC 


924 4901 NSC 


136 


THE GAZCTIE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


I 


[ PART 1- Sec . 1 ] 


+ GWA 

* Www 


- 


- 


the 


theme 


APPENDLA 3 PART- A - Contd . 


ITC Rep 2 CCCM 


ITC Rev 2 CCCN 

Code Code 


# stry cell batteries hasert Mapy 

109* * ** en pride in It 


183 Couponents of 111. 1 

nad safety cute t 
ditioning in rerni lik 
tion , the following : - 


ime 
, " * 


NYT 


3117 


(i) Bellow assembly . 


199 . Estric Lappe, 
500 . Electric motors totally enclosed fan 

cooled and screen protected , squirrel 
cage upto 100 HP other than with 
insulation class F and H including 
grated iynes 


(ii) Contact housing 


PRC 


8519 


716 21 85 018 


( iii ) Springs 


NSC 


501. Electric resistance ( nickel- chro 

niium based ) wires , wire rods , rods 
and strips. 


( iv) Terminal controls . 


196 


. 85 . 19 


NSC 


NSC 


(v ) Heat thermostats for domeste 

appliances . 


9094 


502 . Electrodeposited copper foil of 

thickness 0 .017 mm and above . 
503 . Flectroformed nickel screens 


NSC 


NSC 


484 . Compressors of refrigerations in 

air - conditioning - all types. 


71 , 1911 21. 11 


485 Condensors. 


504 Frysmelled ornar prnmelled coppen / 

. . . ! ! lir " wires, uplo 
. . : f bondir /self 
uldering /insulation type of cl $ 1 !. 682 21011 74 .03 

684 . 2119 85 . 23 


486 . Condenser bushings upto 24 KV 

rating 


487. Contactors of all rutings . 


NSC 35.19 
63? 2202 NS ) 


488. Copper /aluminium bimetal strips. 


489.( i) Copper and copper alloy (all types 

of alloy like cupro -nickel, alumi 
nium brass, aluminium bronze ) 
in the form of pipes tubes and hollow 
section excluding capillary tubus 
and finned copper . 


771 1001 
505. Expanded metai made of Iron /steel. 693 5111 73.28 
506 . Expansion joints/bellows/conneca 

tors for Diesel locomotives 
507. Eye - Picces of all types with mount 

ings except Zoom eye - pieces, wide 
field eye -pieces and stereo objective 
for microscopes . 

834 12 90 .02 
508. Fan buits 

NSC NSC 
509 . Feed water heaters. 

775 , 8200 85 . 12 


(11) Copper and copper alloy plates and 

sheets (less than 1200 mm widih ), 
strips and fouls of thickness 0 .06mm 
and above and minganin strips for 
use in electrical instruments with 
thickness not more than 2 .5 mni. 


510 . Finned 

tubes . 


Copper and copper-Nickel 


682 .25 


74 . 07 


632 . 210 . 


72 . 01 


NSC 


NSC 


511 . Fluid couplings upto 400 HP . 
512 . Forged shafts of dia 250 mm and 

above . 


490 , Copper and 

sections . 


copper alloys _ solid 


749 .3005 84 .63 


491 . G , . , 

. , .- bars / 

lated , 
but excluding copper berylliun 
strips . 


$ 13 . Fractional horse power electric 

motors excluding micro motors , 
brake motors, stepper motors upto 
rating not more than 20 watts . 


NSC 


NSC 


$ 14 . Fuses - - LT and HRC -except those 

suitable for diodes and thyristors . 


NSC 


492 . Current and potential transformers . 

excluding those for mcdium /liigh 
frequency applications. 


NSC 


85 . 01 


515 . Grab Buckets . 


493. Cylinder and cylinder heads 

power driven pumps. 


of 


NSC 


84 10 


NSC 


494 . Damping roller hoses excluding 

shrink warp sleeves for alcohol 
damping units of offset machines . 


621 0501 40 09 


85 . 12 


516 . Halogen lamps and infraared lamps. 
517 . Hardware and pipe fittings made of 

copper , zinc , aluminium and alloys 
thereof. 

NSC 
518 . Heating elements all sorts for 
domestic appliances . 

775 . 82 
519 . Heat exchangers including the follow 
ing : 

NSC 
( ) Columns. 
(1 ) Storage Tanks. 
( iii) Dryers. 
(iv ) Evaporatasx 


493 . Diesel/ gas engincs upto 4000 H .P . 


713 32 


87. 06 


84 . 17 


496 . Domncstic sewing machines and 

components thereof 


7243 


84 41 


497. Drill chucks /lathe chucks 


776 8102 


48 


(NTTI ET 1] 


मारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


137 


MPENDI 3 PART- A - Cond , 


ITC 

A 


CCON 


ITC Ao 

Coddo 


CCC4 
Coda 


120 . Hose assornbles with cnc inetal 

fitringi. 


NSC 


NSC : 


533 . ( a ) Linc pipes and tubes ERW 

variety , upto 508 mm ( oxclud 
ing boiler quality ). 


NSC 


73 . 18 


571 . Hypodermio syringes noedles , other 

than for dental/special medical 
application 


(6 ) Boiler tubes , ERW variety 1 

8 mm to 80 mm O . D . 


872 . 0216 
NSC 


90 . 11 
94 . 10 


322. Impellors of power driven pumps. 


536 . Locks suitcase fittings and metal 

fittings (other than stainless steel 
Ittings) including spectaclo binges . 


699 . 1101 83 . 01/ 


523 . Industrial valves , the following : 

(1) Gate, globo and chock valves 

of cust Iron . 


7:19 . 2003 84 .61 


537. Mechanical seals excluding those 

required for open type air -condi 

ditioning refrigeration compressor . NSC NSC 
538. Mercury vapour lamps . 

778 .2202 85:20 


84 . 61 


(1 ) Gate , globo and check valve 

of alloy steel upto 200mm size 
and upto pressure clasa 600 . 
Gato globe and check valves 
of forged carbon steel upto 749 . 2003 
50 min size and upto pressure 
clas ! 800 . Gate valve of 
carbon stool upto 600 mm size 
and upto prossure class 400) 
600 . Globo valve of carbon 
steel upto 200 mm size and 
pressure class 300 . 


539 . Metal caps, clips and barrels for 

pens (including ball point pon ), pon 
nibs (for handwriting) and ball 
points ref ] ls . 


895. 21/ 22 98 . 03/ 

. 04 


(III ) Plug valve upto 600 mm size . 


NSC 


84 . 61 


(iv ) Ball valve upto prossuro class 

600 and upto size 130 mm ; 


NSC 


84. 61 


(v) Butterfly valve upto 300 mm size 


$24 . Insulators and components thoroof 

for - - 


$ 40 . Mutal clad gwitches /switch fuse 

units/ fuse switch units- all types. NSC 85. 19 
541. Mild steel nuts and bolta . 

694 . 0201 73 . 32 
542. Mild stool wood screws/machine 
screws, 

694 . 0213 73 . 32 
543 , Miniature circuit breakers. 

NSC 85 . 19 
544 . Molybdenum wiro rods and wires 
15 mm dia and below . 

699 .9201 81 . 02 
543. Moulds for tyros, tubes, bladders, 

alr bags and flap for tyre industry. " NSC 
346. Nails , tacks, staples and staple pins , 

hook nails , corrugated palls , spiked 
clamps , studs, spika drawing pins 
of Iron and stool and Boot and Shoo 
griodery . 

694 73. 31/ 

. 32 


NSC 


( ) Losulators and Components 

thereof for transmission lines 
upto and including 420 KV. 


NSC 


83 . 25 


(1 ) Insulators for transformers, 

switchgears and other cloc 
trical equipinents of rating up 
to and including 245 KV. 


5. . Trogialloy Iron powder. 


( din 


$ 20 . Iron and Stoc tasting 

rought/ proof machinod . 


541 Nickel and alckul based alloys and 

Iron basod supor -alloys , including 
Incopols , Incoloys , nomonics , bast 
Alloys And udimets ) in the form of 
ingots, blooms, billets , slabs, bars , 
rounds , rods wires , plates, shoots 
and strips , 


633 


75 . 01 
, 02 


527 . Isolating switches and isolaton , 
• off load and on load types, upto 

220 KV rating . 
$ 28 . Jewels for instruments. 


8 $ . 19 


772 . 1 
NSC 


and 


NSC 


548 . Nickol Çadınlum batteries 

components , parts thereof, 


549. Objectives upto magnification X -45. NSC 


90 . 02 


329 . Jowels (finished / semifinished ) for 

watches , timo- pieces, and clocks 
when imported alono . 


YC 


NSC 


530 . Lamps/bulbs - all typos (excluding 

prcfocussed typos and automobile 
hood lamps) - - o tating below 24 
volt . 


550 . On load tap changer of continuous 

current rating of 300A or less and 
ralod service voltage of 73 Ky or 
less for application to transformors 
with star or delta or single pbaso 
connection , 


778 .2 


85 .20 


NSC 


85. 01 


51, Lord said storage batterier. 


778 . 1201 85 . 14 


551 Pormanont magnet: (all types) 

excluding those by pick -up catrid go 
and DC micro motor manufacturc 


NSU 


85. 02 


132 Lezá - viros for GLS, ! ! !ure 

End Iluoroscoot tubo . 


132. Petrol Kcrojonchas engines apto 

25 HP. 


13 .6 


84. 06 


$ 33 Lighting arroxler uplo 220 KV 
rating . 

172 . 1021 93 , 19 
534 . Limit switches . 

NSC 85 . 19 
58 GI/ 85 _ - 10 . 


53 Phosphor bronze /Tambac brass 

wires, 30 SWG and thicker , 


682 . 2123 


11 . 03 


138 
- 


[PART 1-- SEC . 1 ] 


- - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
- - -- - - - - 

APPENDIX 3 PART- A - Conid , 


- 


- - -- 


- 


- 


ITC Rov , 2 CCCN 

Code Coda 


ITC Rov . 2 CCCN 

Code Code 


354. Photographic lens 180 mm ; f/4 ,5 , 

excluding Zoom lens. 


884 . 1201 90 . 02 


85 . 21 


555 . Photovoltalc Colls panels/modules . 
556 . Pneumatic time delay units . , 


NSC 
NSC 


(d ) Soamless alloy stcol tubos / 

casings /hollows drill tubos and 
pipes and blanks thereof and 
any other cylindrical hollow 
shaped steel in both hot /cold 
finished in sizes 40 mm to 
159 mm O . D . excluding those 
required by power boilers and 
ball bearing manufacturers . 


85 . 19 


557. Pre -heater. 


NSC 


NSC 


73 . 18 


678 . 22 / 
678 . 2300 / 
678 . 2400 / 
678 . 2500 


358 . Pressure Vessels and multi-wall and 

multi layer vessels . 


NSC 


73 . 25 


559, Power and distribution trans 

formers other than cast coil recti 
flors/ excitation transformers . 


NSC 


85 . 01 


dia . 


560 . Power capacitors — all types, ex 

cluding those for medium /bigh fre 
quency applications, high voltage 
application , commutating and filter 
capacitors 


778 . 8502 85. 18 


85 , 19 


561. Push button switches excluding 

lighted push button switches , 772 . 1016 
Printed circuit board mounting 
multi-station push - push or Inter 
locking types. 


562 . Rayon spinning pots, 


NSC 


84 . 38 


563 , Reflectors for Bicycles and auto 

mobiles . 


785 . 39 


87 . 12 


564. Reformer tubes and assemblies. 


NSC 


NSC 


565. Roformor type assembly and fitt 

ings. 


NSC 


NSC 


566 . Rivets other than bifurcated and 

tubular . 


694. 0221 73. 32 
NSC 83 , 13 


367 , Rollon and pilfer proof caps. 


(e ) Seamless alloy steel tubes of 

composition equivalon to SAB 
52100 and in the sizo range of 
45 mm to 48 mm outor dia . 
and 70 mm to 86 mm . outer 

NSC 28 . 04 
572 . Selenium motal (including powder 
form ). 

522 . 1206 28.04 
373. Shoct glass . 

664 . 7001 70 .08 
574 . A Soft or high purity fron in the 

form of ingots billets , bars , rods , 
wires, shects and strips other than 
puro Tron (unwrought form ) for 
romelting purposes . 

672. 51 73 . 07 
574 . B Soldor Wiros , 
575 . Spectacle framos and components 

thereof including fronts and sidos . 884 , 2 90 . 03 
576 . Spoko /nipples /tyres- tubes valves, for 
bicycles . 

785 . 390187 . 12 / 

to 84 .61 

785 , 3909 
577. Static convertors/ Invertors. 

771 . 2101 85.01 
578. Sterilizers. 

741. 6011 84 . 17 
579 . Steel forgings all kinds. 

679. 3 73. 40 
580 . Steel tubing : 

(1) brazed , double wallod , copper 

coated 3 nom to 10 mm OD and 
wall thickness 0 .71 mm . 

73 . 18 
(II) brazed double walled , copper 

coated 3 mm to 7.94 mm OD 

of wall thickness 0 . 89 num . NSC NSC 
581. Steel and Iron castings including 

finish machined for cement industry 
582 Surgical blades. 

NSC 

90 . 17 
583 Switchbard And control panels 

and distributi in fuse beds and 
parts therco .. 

772 . 101585 . 19 
584. Thrust ball bearings upto 60 mm 

internal boro dia , including com 
ponents thereof, the following :- - NSC 84 . 62 
SKF Nos, 51102, 51103 , 51104 , 
51105, 51106 , 51107, 51107X , 51108 , 
51109, 51110 , $ 1111, 51112 , 51202 , 
51203 , 51204 , 51205, 51206 , 51207, 
51208 , 51209 , 51210 , 51211, 51212 , 
52204 , 52205, 52206 , 52306 , AETNA 
No. A2013 (equivalent to JP 1054 ) 
and AETNA NO , A2256 (equivalent 

to D) G /PR / 108 ). 
583. Timer and time delay relay all cate 
gories including motorised , 

ble NSC 85 .19 


621 ,0509 40 . 09 


568 . Rubber hoses . 
569. S nickel, 


683 . 1021 75 . 01 


570 . Scale reading device (optical read 

out). 


NSC 


NSC 


571 . ( a ) Seamless stainless steel pipes 

and tubos 4 .5 mm to 220 mm 
OD and 0 .5 mm to 10 min wall 
thickness , 


678.2 


73. 18 


(b ) Welded stainless steel pipes and 

tubcs icluding various soc 
tions, like U tubes of 4 min to 
600 mm OD with wall thicknoss 
of 0 . 05 mn to 7 min 

699 .7906 73 . 40 


(c ) Seamless carbon stool tubes / 

casings hollows drill tubes and 
pipes and blunks thereof and 
any other cylindrical hollow 
shaped carbon steel in both 
hot/cold finished in wall thick 
ness of 3 inm to 40 man in sizes 
31 mm to 220 min outside dia 
metor , excluding rendy to hone 
tubes requirod by yuraulic 
cylinder manufacturers , 


678 . 21 73 . 18 


[ TOT I 


1] 


भारत फारापपल असाधारण 


139 


APPENDIX 3 PART - A - Contd . 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Codo Code 


ITC Rov. 2 CCCN Code 

Code 
components 

NSC NSC 


586 . Tin containers and 

thereof. 


( 16 ) Industrial machino knives , 

shoar blades other than thoso 
mentionod in Appendix -6 
List 8 PRI - I 


689 . 9922 81 .04 


587. Titanium anodos . 
588 . Titanium baskets. 


695 , 3104 84 . 46 / 

84 . 57 


NSC 


81.04 


(17) Industrial diamond tools, 

single point drossars , whoels 
and glass cutters . 


728 . 11/ 
728 . 41 


- 589 . Titanlum motal, titanium products 

and titanium alloys in any form 
including titanium grids, frames , 
rings, sleeves and any other fabri 
cated structures and components 
thereof other than titanium sponge , 
Titanium and titanium alloy pipes, 
tubes and castings. 


(18 ) Involuto type gear cutters ex 

cluding bevel gear cutting tools 
and gear hobs and gear cutters 
required in the manufacture of 
watches , clocks and timo- plocos . 736 . 12 


689 .9922 81 . 04 


84 . 45 


390 . Tools , the following : 


(19 ) Motal and wood working band 

saw blades , other than bl 
motallic band saw blades . 


695. 31 


82.02 


(1) All types of coated abrasives 

other than coated belts . 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 
NSC 
84. 48 


(20 ) Reamers above 1.2 mm dia . 

othor than adjustablo and ox 
panding type . 


695 .4124 


(2 ) Bonch vloos. 
(3) Broaches. 
(4 ) Cuble Boron Nitrido tools . 


82 . 05 


NSC 


NSC NSC 
695. 4112 NSC 


(21) Slitting saws 1 mm and above . NSC 82 .02 
) Solid tungsten Carbido twist 
drills, 

745. 1102 84.49 


(5) Diamond wire drawing dies. 


(6 ) Diamond mining/coring drill 

bits including oil field drilling / 
coring bits. 


(23 ) T . C . wire , tube and bar draw 

ing dios , nibs , pallets and head 
ing dios . 


695. 4123 82 . 05 


695.4112 82.05 


(7 ) Enginoors steel Ales and rasps, 

other than Jeweller s Ailes and 
needle files . 


(24 ) Throading tape 1.6 mm dia , 

and above . , 


NSC 


NSC 


695. 3300 82 .03 


(25) Tricono rock rollor bits of 

sizes 159 mm . 216 mm , 251 mm . 
311 mm . and 445 mm . 


NSC 


NSC 


( 8 ) Forgod hand tools -- spanners, 

wronchos , sockets, scrow 
drivers , hammers, pliers , chain 
dongs, punches , chisols, allen 
wranches , C . clamps , 


695 . 32 


82 . 03 


(26 ) Tungsten carbido tips, tipped 

tools , and indoxablo tools. 


695 . 4126 ) 82 . 07 
.4301 


(27) Wood 

knives, 


working 


(9 ) Gear hobs : 0 .3 to 17 modulo 

excluding gear hobs and gear 
cutters required in the manu 
facture of watches , clocks and 
time piocos 


saws and 


NSC 


NSC 


84 .48 


591. Transmission lino hardware . 


vare. 


( 10 ) Goar shaper cutters : 1 to 10 

modulo excluding gear hobs 
and gear cutters required in the 
manufacturo of watches , clocks 
and time- pleces . 


592. (I) Tungsten Alaments. 

(II) Tungsten flament wire 

0 .8 mm and below dia . 


of 


NSC 


84 . 48 


(11) Grinding wheels (other than 

those in Appendix 6 List 8 
Part - 1 


593 . Tubo typo heat exchangor of mild 

steel etc . for varied heat transfer 
applications , 


NSC 


663. 1 


68 . 04 


( 12 ) HSS twist drills above 0 .2 mm 

dia and other types of HSS 
drills , 


594 . Tyro tubo valves, valve cores, valvo 

caps and accessories for heavy duty 
vehiclos , 


778 . 4001 85. 05 


(13) HSS and tungsten carbide 

tipped miling cuttors and End 


595 . Umbrella dbs and components 

thoroof (Including Clotn /Cover). 


899 .4903 66 . 03 


mallls 


736 . 12 


84 . 45 


596 . V . Bolt/belting Including reinforcod 

with synthetic fibro . 


NSC 


NSC 


(14 ) HSS tool bits . 


NSC 


NSC 


597. Voltage regulators and stabilisere. 


775 . 7901 85 . 06 


(13) Hand and machine operated 

hacksaw blades . 


695 . 17 
695 . 3 


82 . 01 / 
. 02 


398 . Watch casos made of brass costing 

Rs. 60 or less per dozen cif. 


885. 1400 


91.09 


140 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PAR I I - SEC , 1] 


PARI- A Conra 


ITC Rav. 2 CCCN 
Coda Cod 


APPENDIX 
ITC køv . CCCA 

Code Code 
$ 99. Watch dial crystals without tension 

ring and winding knobs, for 
waterproof typo watch Chscs when 
Imported separately and as a part 
of watch assembly or sul -assembly . 889 , 1400 91 , 09 


( 0 ) EHT Transformer for black 

and white TV receivers above 
36 cm . 


778 . 1 


83 . 01 


17 ) Coramic Discs / plates (Slivered or 

unsilvered for ceramic capacitore ) . 


600. Wire cloth / slove cloth upto and 

including fineness of 200 nesh ex 
cluding endless tripple wire mesh ot 
65/ 195 or iner, 


( 8 ) Carbonised /Metollised ruth 

resistors. 


for 


NSC 


73 .27 


601. ( a ) Welded steel link chains and 

components thereof for hoist 
ing . anchoring . ctc . upto 
70 mm sizo . 


( 9 ) Electrolytic capacitors of rat 

ings not exceeding 63 V : with 
value upto 4700 mld . 


778 8402 83 , 18 


" NSC 


73 . 29 


NSC 


WIC 


(n ) Welded steel link chalos & 

coinponents thereof for mining 
applications upto 20 mm size. 


( 10 ) Ferritos - 

(a ) Antenna 

recolver . 


NSC 
rods for radio 


NSC 


73 . 29 


NS 


85 . 21 


602 . Wrist watch dials costing not more 

tban Rs. 48 per dozen ( 0 .1.1. ) . 


885 . 29 


01 . 11 


774 . 2002 


90 . 20 


603. X - ray tubes medical diagnostic type 

of rating from 15 MA to 500 M . A . 
604 . Zinc dust/grannulations 
605. Zinc callots. 


(6 ) Pot cores of sizes 18 x 11 

mmo & 26 x 16 mm . 
(c ) Toroidal cores of typo 

T - 10 , T- 27, T -30 and T -45 . 
(d ) UI/UŲ cores of types UU 

52 and UU 57. 


(11) Procalcined Ferrite Powdor. 


606. Air Conditioning and Refrigeration 

equipment except the followiog - 


NSC 


NSC 


(a ) Absorption type refrigoration 

equipment. 


NSC 


NSC 


( 12 ) ( ) Intograted circuits CA 

3068 and CA 920 
( II ) Integrated circuits of the 

types ; Voltago regulator 
(No . 723), operational 
amplifier (No. 741). 


(6 ) Electronic air blters . 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


NSC 


(c ) Turbo comprossors and air 

cycle systom for use in aircraft 
and acroplane . 


NSC 


NSC 


(d ) Air conditioner for crane used 

only in steel plants . 


NSC 


NSC 


( 13 ) Intograted circuits of the 

types : - - Radio Receiver (No 
700), Audio amplifier upto 7 
watts . (No. 810 ) ; TV Sound 
IF amplifler and output stage 
(No. 1190 ). 


607. Electronic Items -- 

(1) All discrete silicon semi-con 

ductor devices Hko diodes , 
transistors , thyristors , recti 
fiers , bridges, stacks, SCRs, 
Selenium rectifiers, but ex 
cluding thoso appearing else 
whoro in the Policy 


(14 ) Loudspeakers ( cono typo ) 21 

to 12 " . 


764.2002 85. 14 


776 .3009 85 .21 


( 13) Motal Alm /metal oxide film 

resistors of rating upto 2 . 5 watt . 
and 1000 volts . 


NSC 


85. 19 


without tape 


( 2 ) Audio cassette 

(c -o ). 


NSC 


NSC 


(16 ) Microphones for public address 

system . 


764 , 2001 85, 14 


(3 ) Video cassette without tapo 

(c - o ). 


(17) Phenolic/ Phenolic based coppot 

clad laminatos . 


- 


- 


(4 ) Audio magnetic tape in reels . 

cassettos , jumbo rolls , hubs, 
cartridges and pancakes, and 
in any other form , excluding 
35 am and 16 mm Sprocketea 
tapet . 

898 . 3101 92 . 12 

cod 
898 . 3109 


( 18 ) (1) Single sided printed circult 

boards 


NSC 


85. 19 


(W ) Double sided priptod cir 

cuit boards with or with 
out platod brough holo 
(PTH ). 


NSC 


83. 19 


(5 ) Cerumic /magnetic wrtridges 

and stylus for record players/ 
changers , 


164 .99 


92 . 13 


(19 ) RF /IP colls for radio and TV , NSC 


NSC 


[ATT I - 


1 ] 


141 


- 


= 


- = - " 


भारत का राजपन्न : असाधारण 
= - = - 

= 
APPENDIX I PART- A - Conid 


NSC 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCH 

Corde Code 
(20 ) Sub -assemblies, nodules or 

room temperature vulcanised 
sandwitches muide Of/ on 

diffused semi-conductor chips. NSC NSC 
(21 ) Tape deck mochanisms of cif 

value Rs. 100 or below . NSC 97, 11 
(22 ) Tantalum capacitors of voltage 

ratings 6 to 50 VDC and 
capacitaoce range 0 .1 mid to 

330 mrd . 
(23) Telescopic and TV Antenna. NSC 85 . 15 
(24) Testing and cleaning cassettes. NSC 92 , 12 
( 25 ) T . V . Picturo tubes /CR ICs for 

B & W Television sets . 
(26 ) TV deflection coils for bluck 

and white picture tubes above 
36 cm size , 

85 . 13 
(27 ) T. V . Cuners otber than cloc 
tronic T . V . tuners. 

NSC $ $ , 15 
(28 ) Up Horns . 
(29 ) Video cassettes . 

NSC 
(30 ) Video magnetic tapes in bubs 
and reols 

NSC 
(31) Wire wound resistor 
(32 ) Eloctronic componeots, the 

followlog - 
(1) Diodes 
(a) Low Power, Sraal NSC 85 .21 

Signal OA79 , OA72 . 
OA90 , OA95, CA28 / 

IN251 
CT 283/ 285/ 286 / IN 
5194/ IN5195 /IN5196 
(6 ) Voltage Regulator : NSC 90 .28 

CAZ 3 JA 
CAZ 3 .6A 
CAZ 3 . 9A 
CAZ 9 . 1A 
CAZ 10A 
CAZI1A 
CAZ 12A 
CA2 13А 
CTZ 3 . 3A 
CTZ 3 .6A 
CTZ 3 . 9A 
CIZ 4 . 3A 
CIZ 4 , 7A 
CEZ SIA 
CTZ 11A 
CTX 12A 
CIZIA 
UT2 144 
LIZIOA 
CIZ 18A 
CTZ 204 


ITC Rop , 2 CCCN 

Code Code 
CTZ 22A 
CTZ 24A 
CTZ 27A 
CTZ 30A 
СТz 33А 
CTZ 5 .6A 
CTZ 6 . 2A 
CTZ 6 . 8A 
CTZ 7 . 5A 
CTZ 8 . 2A 
CTZ 9 . 1A 
CTZ 10A 
CAZ 301A / IN 3529 
IN5256B / IN972 
CAZ 5.1A /IN3511 
IN 5231 / IN 751A 
CAZ 4 .3A / IN 3509/ 
IN5229B / IN749 /1N749A 
CAZ 5 .6A / IN 3512/ 
IN 5232B / LN 752A 
CAZ 4 . 7A /IN 3510 / 
IN 5230B / IN 750A 
CAZ 7. 5A / IN 3515/ 
IN 5236B /IN 755A 
CAZ 3 .2A /IN 3516 / 
IN 5237B / IN 756A 
CAZ 16A / IN 966 
IN 5536 / IN 41101 
IN 5221 , BZX83C16 / 
BZX 97 16 
CAT. 20A 
CAZ 6 .8A / IN754A 
CAZ 15A / IN 9 5B 
CAZ 6 .2A / IN 753A 
CSZ 47A , 5 .1A , 5.6A , 
6 .2A , 5 8A , 7.5A , 
8 . 2A , 3 . 1A 
IN 4732 
IN 4733 A 

IN 4734A 
(c) Switwinlog, Low Power NSC NSC 

CA44/ IN1I/ IN4148 
CA 52 IN 203 
CAS7/ IN 903A / IN4152 
CAS9 / IN916A 
CA12 /1N4089 
CAT /IN3054 , IN 4151 
CA77/IN3606 / 1N4152 
CA79/ IN3731 / 1N449 

CT 52,57,59,72,74 ,77,79 
( d ) Switching, Special typen NSC NSC 

GO - 3 
(2 ) Diodes, High Curcot 

Rotifiers (5 200A ) 


N134.13 
INI 1617 
N13485 
IN3995 
IN3900 


142 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EATKAURDINARY 


( PART 1 - - SEC . 1 ] 


APPENDLX 3 PART- A - Conid . 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 

Code Code 


ITC Rer, 2 CCCN 

Code Code 


(e ) Field offect junction 

BFW 10 /11/61 


) Diodos , Silicon , Fast 

Switchlag, Power 
Rectifiers . 
IN3890 
IN3891 


Field Elfect, MOS 
3N200 


( II ) Transistors : 


776 . 3001 85 . 21 


NSC 


85 . 21 


85 . 21 


(III) Thyristors (SCR s ) 

SS685 
S $688 
S $690 
SS692 
SS694 


(a ) Low Power, General 
Purpose . 

NSC 
2N918 
2N2484 
2N869 
2N2102 
2N3866 
2N2270 
BC177A /BC178B 
BCI07A / 107B / 109C 
AC126 
BF115 
CK100 , BEL 100P /BEL100N 
KN100 /KP100 


85 19 


( iv ) (a) (vllcrocircuits (IC ) NSC 

Linear Voltage Regulator 
CA 723, 3085A , 3085B 
BMC 1002, 1012 , 1030 
BMC 1005 , 
CA3028A -Dofferential 
Amplifier , 
CA 020A Power Amplifier 
CA - 641 Operational Amplifier 
BMO -25 - B - lanced Modulator 
CD 4011 -Quad 2. Input NOR 
CD - 4011 -Quad 2- Input NAND 
CD -4012 - Tripplo 3- input NOR 
CD -4013-Dual D Flip- Flop 
CD -4030 -Quad exclusive OR 
CD -4835 CMOS Shift Register 


85 . 21 


(6 ) Linoar, Preamplifier, Audio 

BMC 1003 


(v) Connectors 


NSC 


85 . 19 


(b ) Low Power , Goneral 

Purpose & Switching . NSC 
2N718A 
2N720A 
2N1613 
2N1711 
2N1890 , N1893 
2N2218A 
2N2219A 
2N2221A 
2N2222A 
2N2369A 
2N2904A 
2N2905A 
2N2906A 
2N2907A 
2N3019 
2N3251A 
2N4033 
2N697 
2N3500 
2N3636 
2N708 
2N3439 
2N3440 
2N3501 


(a ) Connectors, electrical, 

printed wiring board 


( 1 ) Edgo connectors . 

PC 64-231-17 
PC 131 - 11 
PC 211- 17 
PC 121 - 11 
PC 213 - 17 
PC 113 - 11 
133 - 501- H 
133- 503 - H 
143 - 1204- H /N 
143 -502 - H 
143 - 1203 - H 
143 - 1206 - H / N 
143- 1205- H /N 


85 . 21 


(c ) Powar (upto 50 watts ) NSC 

2N3054 
ECP055 / ECNOSS 
ASZ15 / 18 
2N3375 
2N3553 


( 2 ) General purpogo 

Types S : 250 - A - 2 and 
S : 200 - A - 1 
Typos 143 -012 -01- H 
and 143 -022 -01- H 
Typos 039 125195 , 
0191252 , 0192252 . 


89 . 21 


(d ) Power (abovo 50 watts ) NSC 

2N3055 
2N5071/ 2N3772 


( nr I 


* 1] 


143 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


w 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


G 


- 


- 


भारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 

- - - 
APPENDIX 3 PART-A - -Contd 


- - 


- 


- 


ITC Rev . 2 CCCN 

Code Code 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 

Code Code 


Cırculus 


MS 3108E - 14S -6S 
MS 3101E - 14 -6P & S 
MS 3102E -28- 11P 
MS 3102e - 28 - 22P 
MS 3102E - 18 -3P 
MS 3102E - 10SL - 3P & S 
MS 31068 - 10SI -3P & S 
MS 3108E - 10SL -3P & S 
MS 3102E - 16S - 1P & S 
MS 3106E - 16S- 1P & S 
MS 3108E - 28 - 10P 
MS 3108E - 28 - 10S 
MS 3108E - 28 - 11P 
MS 3108E - 28 - 11S 
MS 3108E - 28 -22P 
MS 3108E -28 - 225 
MS 3102E - 28 - 10P 
MS 3102E -28 - 10S 
MS 3102E - 148 - 2P 
MS 3102C -14S -2S 
MS 3102E -22 - 19P & S 
MS 3106E -22 - 19P & S 
MS 3102E- 145 -5S 


( 2 ) Miniatua, Bayonet 

coupling of following 
types : 


(1 ) Multipio with threaded 

coupling of following 
types : 
MS 3102R - 14S -5P - H 
MS 3102R - 14S -5S - H 
MS 3106R - 14S -5P - H 
MS 3106R - 14S -SS -H 
MS 3102R - 16S - IP - H 
MS-3102R - 16S - 1S - H 
MS 3106R - 16S - 1P - H 
MS 3106R -16S - 1S - H 
MS 3102R - 18 - 1P - H 
MS 3102R - 18 - 1S - H 
MS 3106R - 18 - 1P - H 
MS 3106R - 18 - IS - H 
MS 3102R - 22 - 14P- H 
MS 3102R - 18 - 11P 
H & S - H 
MS 3106R - 18 - 11P 
H & S - H 
MS 3102R - 14S -SP 

H & S - H 
MS 3106R - 145-5S 
H & P - H 
MS 3102R -22- 19P 
H & P - H 
MS 3106R - 22 - 19S 
H & P - 11 
MS 3102R -22 - 14S - FI 
MS 3106R - 22 - 14 - P - H 
MS 3106R - 22- 145 - H 
MS 3100R - 10SL - 3P -II 
MS 3100R - 10SL - 3S - H 
MS 3101R - 10SL - 3P - HI 
MS 3101R - 10SL - 3S - H 
MS 3102F - 10SL - 3P -H 
MS 3102F - 10SL - 3S - H 
MS 3106F - 18 - IP - H 
MS 3106F - 18 - 1S - H 
MS 3106F -22-19- P - H 
MS 3102F - 22 - 19S - H 
MS 3106F - 28 -21S - H 
MS 3102F -28 - 21P - H 
MS 3102E - 148 - 7P 
MS 3102E - 14S- 75 
MS 3106E - 143 - 7P 
MS 3106E - 143 -7S 
MS 3102E - 148 -6P 
MS 3102E - 14S-6S 
MS 3106F - 145 -6P 
MS 310/61 - 441 
MS 3108L - 145 - 7 ! 
MS 3108E - 145 - 75 
MS 31088 - 14S -6P 


62 GA- LIH - 12 - P - U 
02 GD - 167 - 12 -3S - H 
62 GA - 129 - 11- 19P - H 
62 678 - 167 - 14 - 19S -H 
6 ? GT3-1F- 34-5S- H 
62 G3- 12C - 24 -61 [ & S 
62 GB -16F - 24 - 01 P & S 
62 GB -12E - 1 - 39P & S 
62 GB- 16F -14 - 19PS 
62 GB- 16F - 10 - 6S - H 
62 GB - 16F - 16 - 26S - H 
62 GB - 14E -12- 3 P & S 
62 GB- 16F -12 - 3P & S 
62 GB -146 - 12 - 10P & S 
62 GB 16F - 12 - 10P & S 


(c) Connectors , electtical, 

general purpose type 
$ S , 5 Plo . 


(d ) Connectors, electrical, 

rack and poel. 


(1) Miniature, polarized 

sboil : 
17- 1077 
17 - 141: 1- 14 
17 - 102517 - 61 
17- 10500 - H 


144 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART - SEC. 1] 


MEN 


ArP DI 


* 


* 


ETC RCV 2 CCCNCHY 


i C - Rev . 2 

Code 


CCCN 
Onde 


31 -3377 
31-4238 
010202 
015915 
014212 
013211 
01944 ), 


17- 20090 - 6 
17 - 20150 - H 
17 - 20250 - A 
19 -20500 - H 
3290951 
3280901 
3291551 
3281501 
3292551 
3282501 
3295051 
3285001 


0 


Series INC Type 124 
002 
St. aight plug INC 
Type-020101 
quare Panel Socket 
TNC, Type- 023001 


following 


( 4 ) Series N , 

types : 
HN080102 
HN083010 
HNO80304 


(2 ) Other than polarised 

shell of following type . 
8 contacts, type: 25 
183- H and 36 -102-11 
24C ois typ " AI 
24M 200 AD -21F 
26 - 199 - 24P - H 
26 190 - 245 - 11 


Series SMA , sollow 
ang iynes 


P 4001 
P 4040 


wir Free 


ON 


(e ) COLD Ciors 

que se 


83- ISPN * * 


( Oh WTON 

toueast 
16118 ) 
164-229- H 
U 18 ? /UNICL 
U - 10 UHILE 


83- ISP - C 


(VI) Rel y 


¥¥2 1014 


8. 


u 


M - 6024 
S101 -UP 
S101-IR 
030 / 01 
033211 
33C4 


que} AIT) (ure , herar 
cally sealed Time 10 , 

PIT, Cocio Rante 


50 % 
UG 31 01 
UC 01 st 
OG 


1. 


06 -0254 TV 
UG 34A ( tiro 


TIAL Ottic 
hormule 
trilon1YDA ! 


$ 10 


26 . 5 


1 


110V 


PDT mintacts 
stat latius, JA # 1 
* ** Polaga F9 12 


tyre 


101 , ArmC# 1 


013311 


Pr* * 


( 977 1 — * 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र . असाधारण 


145 


APPENDIX 3 PART - A - Concld . 


ITC + 1 CCCR 
God Gode 


( 


ITC - Rov. 2 CCCN 

Code Code 
Typos : 
ER 23154- 00717, B104 
ER 23154 -C0720- B104 
ER 23154 - 00721 - B104 
ER 23154 - C0722-B104 
ER 23154 - C0726 -B104 
DPDT contacts , con 
tact rating : 
1A MAX And 100 V 
max, subject to power 
limitation of 30 max : 
Coil Voltage : 9 , 12 
18 . & 26 . 5 V dc. 


9W Power rating of 
values 1 ohms to 68K 
ohms 
12W Power rating of 
values 1 obm to 100K 
ohms 


15W Power rating of 
values 10 ohm , to 
6 . 8K ohms 


(7 ) Types : 

ER 23154 - D0715 - B110 
ER 23154 -D0717 - B110 
ER 23154- D0719 - B110 
ER 23154 -D0712 - B110 
ER 23154 - D0722 -B110 
4 PDT contacts , 
contact rating 
IA max and 100 V 
max , subject to power 
Kruitation of 30 W 
max, Coil Voltage : 
6 , 9, 12 , 18 and 26 . 5 


25W Power rating of 
valuos 10 ohms to 18K 
ohms 
50W Power ratiog of 
values 10 ohm to 
39K ohms 
100W Power rating of 
valuos 15 obms to 

91K ohms 
(c ) Resistors , varlablo , 

wirowound , Adjust 
ment type of 0 . 75W 
power rating in values 
10 ohms to 10K ohms 


V dc. 


( d ) Wirowound , variable 

rosistance rango 10 
ohms to 10K ohms 
Powor ratlp : 0 . 5W 
and 1 .0W . 


Reed , typo DRM , 
INo And 2No con 
tacts, Contact Rat 
ings : 200 V max , 
500 mA max subject 
to a power limitation 
of 14W : Coil Volt 
Ages : 6V, 5V, 12V and 
24V do. 


( lx ) Capaciton 1 


plastic , 


(a ) Metallised 

dioloctric : 


( ww 


NSC 


89 19 


Switches ! 
( a ) Rotary waſer, follow . 

ing types 1 
AM 
OM 1 , 2, 3, 4 


(1) Polyester Non -bar 

motically naled , Tub 
ular, axial loads upto 
630 V dc rating Capa 
citanco rango 0 . 00082 

co 10 / F 
(2 ) Polyanter Non -her 

motically scalod , Box 
typo, radial leade 
Upto 630 V do racing 
Capacitance rangor 
0 . 0047 to 6 . 8 /uF 


SC 


14M - 1, 2 , 3, 4 , 5 


( b ) Capsule , dry recd . 

following typer i 
MRR - 2 
MSRR - 2 
DRA- 200 


( 111) Meristor 


NSC 


83, 19 


Polycarbonato Nod . 
hermotically scaled , 
fat oval axlat leads 
100 V dc 
Capacitanco fango 

0 . 033 /UF to 10 /UP 
(h ) Coramio doloctric , 

Gonoral purpose 


( a ) Carbon ülm rolstors 

(Insulated /non - insulat 
ed ) of rating 1 watt or 
below and of valua 
10 ohms to 1 meg. 
obms 


Disc type 


Vollago 
rating 
300 V dc 


Capacitani . 
ΓΗΠΟΥ 


b ) Noo - 108ulated wiro 

wound resistors of 
the following typcs ! 
2 . 5W Power rating of 
Valua 1 . 0 ohms to 10K 
ohms 


220 to 
270 PF 
3300 to 
4700 PP 
6800 to 
10000 PH 
470 , 1000 , 
1800 , 470CPP 


0 .0W Power rating of 
values , 10 ohs to 
20K ohm 


YOU V du 


146 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1-- Sec . 11 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 3 PART- A - Conid . 


ITC Rey. 2 CCCN 
Code Code 


ITC - Rev. 2 CCCN 

Code Codo 


(c ) Ceramic dielectric , 

Temperaturo compen 
sating 


Voltago 
rating 


Capacitance 
rango 


(x ) Electron Tubos : 

( a ) Magnetrong 

7008 

$ J26 
(b ) Voltage Regulators 

S90 / 40 /CV287 

85A2 
(c) Transmitting 


500 V dc 


1 . 5 to 
220 PF 


(d) Polystyreno dielectric 


( 1 ) Non -hermetically sea 

led , Tubular axial leads 


1000 
4000 
100 
8438 / 400 
250 CX 


Voltago 
rating 


63 V dc 


Capacitanco 
range 
100 PF to 
603000 PR 
100 PF to 
150000 PF 


(d ) Receiving, Pantodes 

EF 91/CV 5654 
EL 84 /CV 4014 


250 V dc 


(e) Receiving, Triodes 

ECC82 
ECH81 


( 2 ) Non -hermetically 

sealod , box type, Radial 
leads 


(f) 


Numerical Indicator 
ST 12C 
MF 31D /B5870 


Voltago 
rating 


Capucítanco 
range 


100 V do 


100 to 
250000PF 


Rectifiers 
3B 24 /03a 
EZ80 
EZ81 
CZ 34 
2a 
2A - 1 
Sa 
Sa - 1 


200 V dc 100 to 

100000 PF 


500 V dc 47 to 

55000 PF 


(h ) Thyratrop 

5544 


(e ) Capaciti rs, Mica dio 

lectric 


Voltage 
rating 
500 V 


Capacitanco 
values 


(xl) Cathodc -Ray tubes : -- 

130 C1 P1 
180 CI P7 
260 C1 P7 
180 C2 P7 
300 C1 P7 


VLA 


1 to 4700PF 


Solid Tantalum Capa 
citors 


(xii ) Crystal Unit, Quartz Stylos 

Typo KXL P7007, Fro 
quency range 0 . 5 to 20 
MHZ 


u 


Voltago 
Rating 


Capacitanco 
Valuos 


CR - 52A / U 


Frequency rango 


6 to 50 V 0 . 1 to 330 

dcu / F 
608. Components of textile machinery other than juto and homps 


10MHZ to 61 
CR -62A / U | MHZ 


Machinery 


Components 


- - - - - 


(1) Blow Room Machinery 


All compononts except thoso required for fully 

automatic Chute focding type blow room . 


NSC 


NSC 


( 2 ) Rovolving Flat Carding Engine for Cotton /Man - All compononts oxcept for those for high production 
made fibre . 

cards with fooding Chute auto leveller /auto can 
changer . 


NSC 


NSC 


[ TTI 


11 


भारत का राजपत्र . असाधारण 


147 


APPENDIX 3 PART- A - Contd . 


Machinery 


Components 


ITC Rev, 2 CCCN 
Code Code 


(3 ) Draw Frames / Speed Frames, other than thoso 

required by woollen textilo industry . 


NSC 


84 . 38 


1. Fluted rollers for Darw and Speed Framos Ex 

cluding Helical futed rollers, 
2 . Spindles. 

NSC 
3. Flyers for Speed Framos, 

NSC 
4 . Rubbor cots and aprons for drafting system . NSC 


84 . 38 
84 . 38 
NSC 


(4 ) Ring Frames 


NSC 
NSC 


NSC 
NSC 


1. Spindles 

NSC 
2 . Lappers 

NSC 
3. Soparators 

NSC 
4 . Part of Pneumatic under clearors, 

NSC 
5 . Fluted Rollers 

NSC 
6 . Rings for Ring Frames and Doubling Framo 
for cotton textilo industry . 

NSC 
7. Ring Travellors for cotton toxtile industry . NSC 
8 . Rubber cots and aproms for drafting systom . NSC 
9 . Spindle inserts of dia below 10 mm , 

NSC 


84 . 38 


84 . 38 
84 . 38 


84 . 38 
NSC 


(3) Winding Machino 


NSC 


84 . 38 


1. Metallic Traverse Druns for High Spood Warp 

Winding Machino . 
2 . Bccklite Traverse Drums of 127mm (5 " ) and 

152 . 40mm (6 " ) Traverso for Warp Winding 
Machino. 
3. Meter /Yardago Countors. 


NSC 
NSC 


84 . 38 
90 . 27 


(6) Warping Machine 


84 . 38 
90 . 27 
84. 38 
84 . 38 


(7) Sizing Machine. 


NSC 


NSC 
NSC 
NSC 
NSC 


(8 ) Loom parts / Accessories 


1 . Warper s Beams excluding laminated or plastic 
flanges for High Speed Warping Machino. 

NSC 
2 , Moter/ Yardage Counters. 

NSC 
3. Warping Combs other than zigzag typos. NSC 
4 . Lease Reods. 

NSC 
1. Sizing Combs other than zigzag types . 

NSC 
2. Motor /Yardage counters, coopt out marking 
counters. 

NSC 
3 . Moisture Meter . 

NSC 
4. Sizing Cylinders. 

NSC 
5 . Lease Reeds. 

NSC 
1. Shuttles exlcuding for Tapo/Ribbon /Grippers 
looms. 

NSC 
2 . Pick Counters /Moter Counters and all such 
countors , 

NSC 
3 . Pitch /bound/ stcol/brass /handloon reeds. NSC 
4 . All Metal Rocds excluding special types such as 

those for Air - Jot, Water - Jot and Needlo loom 
and reeds above 350s counts . 

NSC 
5. Cotton healds /wiro hoalds/ flat steel healds , ox 

cluding doup healds and healds for alr /water 
jet looms and special types such as those for 
narrow weaving/necdla looms. 

NSC 
6 . Drop Wiros for Warp Stop Motion cxcluding 

special types such as those for narrow wenving / 
needle looms. 

NSC 


34 . 38 


90 . 07 


34 . 38 


34 . 38 


34 .38 


NSC 


148 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SEC. 1 ] 


- 


APPENDIX 3 PART-A - Conid . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - -- - - - - - 


MLA21 


- 


- - - - 


- 


Macblogy 


Components 


ITC Ræv. 2 CCCN 
Code Code 


NSC 


NSC 


7. Pickers, 
8. Buffen , excluding Hydraulic buffen , 
9. Picking Sticks. 
10 . Picking Bands. 
11. Check Straps 
12 , Heald Cords, 
13 . Heald Knitting Noodles . 
14 . Jacquard Harnos Needla . 
15 , Linen Coro. 
16 . Jacquard Cards excluding special types such as 

those for narrow weaving / needlo looms. 


84. 38 


17. Following parts of looms other than 

(a ) Swivel and Lappet Looms. 
(h ) High Speed Narrow Fabric Loups. 
(c) Tyre Cord Looms. 
(d ) Fustian Looms. 
(e ) Circular Looms. 

Shutteless Looms. 
(8 ) Moquettes Looms. 
(h ) Imported Automatic Looms, 

NSC 
(1) Velvet Loom 

(i ) Loom sidos. 
(il ) Top Rails . 
( tl ) Cross Ralls 
( Iv ) Binder Rails . 
(v) Stey Swords. 
( vi) Swing Rails and Bushings 
(vil ) Breast Boarns . 
( ii ) Take-up Rollor 
(ix ) All Metal Slays. 
( x ) Craak Shafts and Bushes 

NSC 
(xi) Tappet Shafts and Bushes 

NSC 
( xil ) Picking Bowls . 

NSC 
( xill ) Picking Tappet Shells . 

NSC 
( xiv ) Picking Tappet Nose Bits 

NSC 
(xv) Picking Sbafts . 

NSC 
(xvi ) Picking Tappet Boge Keys 
( rvil) Picking Tappet Boso . 

NSC 
(vill ) Loom Temple 

NSC 
(11x ) Parts of Weft Replenishing Moohaniam .NSC 
18. Loon spindles. 

NSC 
19 , Looms Springs manoly Swoll, Boz and Bou-opd 
springs . 

NSC 
20 . Sido Wert fuck olhor chau woklad typo . 

NSC 
21 , Porcelaid cycs of shutucs 
22 . Weavor , Beams. 
23. Sburtic tips. 
24 . Weft grote 

NSC 
2 $ , Woit gatoy . 
26. AB Metal Ilcald Frame excluding special tyres 

such as thuso for narrow weaving /nadlo lovms. 


84 .63 
84.63 
NSC 
NSC 
NSC 
NŞC 
NSC 
NSC 
84 . 38 
NSC 
84 . 38 


NSC 


NSC 
NSC 


84.38 


V 


- 


V - 


- 


( 474 I 


1] 


भारत का राजपक्ष असाधारण 


149 


APPENDIX 3 PAR1- A - ( onid , 


- 


- 


- 


- 


+ 


Machinery 


Components 


ITC Rov. 2 CCCN 
Codo Coda 


NSC 
NSC 


NSC 
NSC 


27. Perforated Steel Strips . 
28. Emery Fillet. 
29 . Shuttlo Tongue. 
30 . Lease Rods . 
31. (1) All types of ShuttleEyes excluding Ruth and 

Honox types . 
( II) Al types of Shuttle Jaws . 


NSC 


84 . 38 


(9) Power operated circular macbines (under-wear) 


84 . 38 


( 10 ) Others 


NSC 
NSC 


1. Cylinders for non -slnker plain web machinos / ) 
sinker body machine of 24 gaugo . 

NSC 
2 . Cylinders for sinkor non - sinker plainweb machino ( 

upto 22 gauge. 
1. Wooden /metallic Bobbing/Prins , Concu dod 
Tubes . 

NSC 
2 . Paper Tubes /Cona . 

NSC 
3 . Jacquard Nock cords other than contlouous 

length . 
4 . Auto Pllers . 
5 . Cotton / Papor/Woollen Caleador Bowls . 
6 . Cloth Guidors. 

NSC 
7. Colour Mixing Pans, 
8 . Copper Printing Rollers . 
9. Drying Cylindoro. 
10. Hank /Cloth Expander . 


84 .38 


11. Pro -Heators and Heat Exchangers. 
12 . Ralsing Fillets. 
13 . Rubber sleeves for Compressive shrloklog Range/ 

Santorizing machine. 
14 . Rubber/Ebonito Rollers . 
15 . Selvedge Uncurlers 


NSC 


NSC 


16 . Vacuum Stralner . 

NSC 84. 18 
17. Woft Straighteners other than Bow and ikow types ) 
18 . Doctor Blades . 

NSC 84 . 38 
19 . Dyeing Beams and Carriors . 
20 . Stentor Clips 
21. Nickel Perforated Scroons 640 mo and 914 mm 
repeat in sizca . 

NSC 75 . 06 
22. Card clothing for cotton wasto cards 

NSC 84 . 38 
23. Noso bars for ring frames 

NSC NSO 
24. Spindle tapos 

NSC NSC 
yny . All electronio equipment /systems, howsoever , described (including consumer and professional typos ) excluding 
those specifically allowed under OGL in this policy or specificd elsewherc . 

NSC NSC 
610 . Kits /ready to assemble sets, assemblies , sub - assemblies,"modulos , and combination thoroof of all electronic 

itoms ( excluding items mentioned in App . 6 List 8 - Part I appearing at Sr. No . 609 but excluding 
electronic discreto components ( unless individually mentianed olsewhere in this Appendix ). 

NSC NSC 
611 Any item having another chomical namo or synonym , but of the same nature , as any of the items covared by this 
List. (Tbc synonyas mentioned in this entry refor only to those of chemicals and allied itens ). 

NSC NSC 


- na 


NOTES 


(1) 


( 2 ) 


Entry No. 171 above upplies, oqually to dyestuffs having the same colour Indica a . (bore stated 
thorold aud of different manufacturers . 
Tho Type Nos , set down against the respoctivo Itoms and componens lo Entry No . 607 abovo 
roprosent intemnationally accepted specifications and could therefore include all such itemsand 
compononts of different manufactures . 


150 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - Sec . 1 ] 


APPENDIX 3 ( Contd . ) 


APPENDIX 3 PART - B 


RAW MATERJALS (IRON AND STEEL AND FERRO ALLOYS) 


Carbon Steel Items 
1. All grades of carbon steel ( carbon 

less than 0 . 6 % ) strips in hardened 

and /or tempered condition, 
2 . High Carbon (carbon 0.6 % and 

above) hardoned and / or tompered 
steel strips for saw blades /cutting 
tools . 


Cold Rolled High Carbon 
(Carbon 0 .6 % and abovo ) 
Stoel Ştrips unhardoned and 

untempered . 
(a ) Electrical Steel Shoats CRGO 

Spec . Gr, M4. 
(b ) Electrical Steel Shoots Gr . 

M2H 


Tin Plato Primo OTS quality . 


9 . Tin Plato wasto wasto . 


All grados of carbon steel wires in 
galvanised /black / anncalcd / drawn / 
copper /tin /bronze / bruss /plastic / 
Vinyl coated condition in sizos 
0 . 46 mm dia (26 SWG ) and thicker 
and round reed wires and also wiros 
for manufacture of tyrę beads but 
excluding bright annealed wires in 
size 0 .5 mm dia (25 SWG ) for 
manufacture of wired glass /wiro 
mosh for wired glass . 


10 . All grades of Carbon Steel Wiros 

Galvanised / black annoaled /drawn / 
Coppor coated of sizes thinner 
than 0 . 46 mm but oxcluding tyro 
bead wires . 


4 . (a ) Cold heading Carbon Steel Wire 

rods. 
(6) Rolled rounds above 145 mm . 


11. Tram tyros /wheels. 
12 . Boiler/ prossure vessel quality 

platos /Coils in Hot rollod / Cold 
rollod condition in all grades of 
carbon steel in thickness 3 mm and 
above . 


(c ) Carbon Steel Flats in sizos of 

8 x 40 mm to 40 x 200 mm . 


( d ) Carbon Steel squares in sizes 

ranging from 8 x 8 mm to 25 x 25 mm 


( ) Forge rounds above 450 mm . 

dia . 
5. (a) API quality Stoel (Plates ). 
(b) Plates in Spec. ASTMA 588 

Gr. A . 


13 . All Seconds / second grades / dofoc 

tives /cuttings /Circles of sheets / 
platos /Coils /Strips in any shape ) 
Section form not elsewhero stated in 
coatod / plated or uncoated condi 
tion including tin , Zinc/Aluminium / 
aluminium alloy coated /plated and 
commodity marketed as tin freo 
Steels in the description above 
stated . 


thick 


(c) Plates above 8 mm 

WŞTE - 36 . 


(Weldable 


(d ) Plates IS - 2062 

quality ). 


Alloy Steel Items. 
14 . High sulphur free cutting/somi 

freo cutting steel billets/ squares / 

rounds/ rods . 
15 . High Speed Stoel (non -cobalt 

grades) - 


(@) Plates above 1500 mm width 

IS -226 . 


( a ) Copper bearing Sheets /Coils 

in Spec . ASTMA 588 Gr. A . 


(1) Wire rods in coils 3. 5 mm to 

40 mm , dia ; and . 


(b ) CR Coils and shects to IS 513 

Grado O . 


(II ) Wires in any foish 3.5 mm 

and abovo dia . 


(c ) Cold Rolled D /DD /EDD 

quality shoots /coils . 


16 . High Spoed Stoal ( non - cobalt 

grades) rounds to any finish in 
sizes 6 .0 mm to 120 mm dia . 


(d ) Hot rolled Colls /Sheets/Skolps. 
(e) Cold Rolled Stool Strips 12 mm 

wide and below . 


in 


17. High Speed Stool flat/squares 

all grades. 


(ATTI - 


151 


भारत का राजपत : असाधारण 


1] 


APPENDIX 3 PART- B - Concld . 


18 . Alloy stoel wires in all grades other 

than stainless /heat resisting steel 
of size 0 . 46 mm dia ( 26 SWG ) and 
thicker but excluding : 


24 . High spoed steel as undor : 

(1) Rounds /wireg in cobalt boar. 

Ing grades 6 , 5 mm dia to 

120 mm dia . 
( II) Hoxagons/octagons/blooms/ 

billets . 


(a ) Hosiery neodlo wires, 


(6 ) High Speed steel wircs in sizes 

less than 3. 5 mm dia . 


(c) Wiras in ground condition . 


25 . Forged /rolled tool and Die Steel and 

Die blocks as under - 


(a ) Round Section above 500 mm 


dia . 


19 . Forged /Rollod Tool & dle steel and 

dio blocks as under : 
(a ) Round section 500 mm and 

below dia . 


(b ) Rectangular square shape of 

cross soction above 250 , 000 
squaro mm . 


(6) Rectangular /Square shape of 

26 . Alloy Steol rounds. 
cross section 250 , 000 square 
mm & below . 

27 . Stainless Stool Scrap to Specifica 

tion AISI- 316 , ÇF 3M /316L . 

Alloy 20 and HV - 9 . 
20 . Stainless/heat resisting steel wires 

of size 0 . 31 mm dia (30 SWG ) and 
thicker but cxcluding wirogin 

Ferro Alloyg 
copper /tin coated condition , 

28 . Ferro Alloys in form other than 

powder form as under : 
21. (a) Cold heading quality alloy 
steel wire rods. 

( a ) Ferro Manganese excluding 

the grades with carbon less 

than 0 . 1 % 
(6 ) Turbino Blado Flats. 

(b ) Ferro Silicon excluding 

atomised ferro -silicon . 
22 . (a ) Stainless steel plato of thickness 

abovo 12 mm and width above 
1. 25 meters . 

(c ) Ferro Chromo excluding the 

grados with carbon less than 
(6 ) Alloy steel plates/sheets /strips ) 

0 .03 % 
coils (excluding SS /heat resist 
ing steel HR / CR ). 

(d ) Silico Manganese . 
(c ) Stainless Steel Strips (AISI 

(e ) Silico Chromo. 
304 quality ) less than 0 . 3 mm 

Ferro Titanium all forms. 
thickness for manufacture of 
Capillary tubos . 

(8 ) Ferro Molybdenum . 

(h ) Ferro Vanadlum . 
23. Alloy steel plates -- hot rolled / 

(1) Ferro Tungsten . 
cold rolled in all grades ( excluding 
stainless heat resisting/bigh speed 

U ) Forro -Columbium /Niobium . 
stcols ) not elsewhere statod . 

(k ) Ferro- Silicon Magnesium . 
Note : 

1. The ITC R . 2 and CCCN codo numbers have been assigned to facilitato collection of data only . 
2 . These will be reproduced on the bills of entry filled by tho Importer and on licences whenover issued . 
3. Theso , however, will not be binding on customs authorities for classification for tariff purposes. 
4 . The interpretation of the Imp . rt - Export policy will, however , continuo to be as per description of the items given in this 

Appendix and not according to the code Numbers assigffed . 
5 . “NSC " stands for Not Separately Classined . 


152 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SEC .)1 ] 


1 


APPENDIX 4 


Doleted 


(PVTIT1] 


भारस का राजपत : असाधारण 


153 


PS 


APPENDIX 3 


CANALISBD ITEMS 


PART - A 


LIST OF ITEMS, IMPORT OF WHICH IS CANALISED THROUGH PUBLIC SECTOR AGENCIES 


ITC Rey. 2 CCCN 
Code No. CodeNo . 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code No . Code No , 


Balmer Lawrle & Company 


14 . Fluorspar (acid prado). 
15 . Lead. 


278. 5403 25, 31 


685 


78 ,01 


1 . Parafilo wax . 


335. 120 


97. 13 


to 


78 .05 


Central Silk Board 

2. Raw Silk . 


226. 3001/ 50 .02 


16 . Primary and Socondary Nickol, all 

types, Nickel scrap and Nickol 
powder . 


3002 


671 .6912 73 .02 
683 


75 , 01 


3. Silk worm (cocoons). 


261 . 4100 30 . 01 


to 


, 05 


Cotton Corporation of India . 


17. Platinum 


681 . 2 


71 . 091 
. 10 


4 . Raw cotton , 


263 .1 


33 . 01 


18 . Palladium , 


NSC 


71 . 09 


National Film Development Corporation 
5 . Cloomatograph films, not exposod , 

all types and sizes, excluding the 
following : - 


19 . Sulphur , non -procossed clomontal/ 

non -roined including sulphur ro 
covered as a by -product of petro 
loum refining. 


882 . 2201 37. 02 
882. 2202 


274 . 1000 


25 .03 


20 . Th . 


687 


80 . 01 


(1) black and whito positive and 

gound negative . 
(2) 8 mm (colour); and 
(3) 8 mm black and whlto nogativo. 


96. 


21 . Zloc (or Spelter). 


686 


79 .01 
to 


Juto Corporation of India 

6 . Juto Pulp 


NSC 47 .01 
263, 5000 57. 02 


State Trading Corporation of India 
22 . Alkyl bepzone including Unoar 
alkyl bonzone/ dodecyl benzono . $ 11. 2901 29 .01/29 . 04 

38 . 19 


7. Raw Manila hemp (Abre ). 


263 . 4001 


57 . 04 


8 . Raw sisal fibro. 
9. Raw fute including mosta and cut 

tings . 


264 . 0001 57.03 
264 . 0002 
264 .0003 


23. All synthotic non -collulose Abres 

oxcluding polyester fibre /tow , nylon 
Abre /tow , acrylic fibro /tow and 
polypropyleno Abro /tow . 


Minerals & Metals Trading Corporatiop of 

Indle . 
10 . Aluminium including aluminlum 
rode. 

684 


266 . 5100 56 . 01 

5902 to 
5903 . 04 
. 5909 
. 6100 
. 6909 
. 7100 


76 . 01 

to 
76 . 07 


269 . 7900 


11 . Antimony metal, 


689 , 9901 81. 04 
699 . 9901 


323 .2809 28 .46 
311. 3912 29. 02 


24 . Calclum borate. 
23. D . D . T . Tochnical and 75 wdp . 
26 . Mothyl Mothacrylato Monomer 

(virgin /rogonoratod ). 


12 . Asbestos raw . 


278 ,4 


25. 24 


13. Copper including coppor rodo 

(wrought or unwrought) . 


$ 19 . 1007 38 , 11 
NSC 

29 . 14 


682 


74 . 01 

to 
74 , 08 


27. Methanol, aſ typos. 


312 . 1100 29 . 04 


58 GI/ 85 11. 


154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - Sec . 1] 


APPENDIX S PART - A - Conid , 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code No . Code No. 


(1 ) Carbon Steel Aats in sizes 

of 8 x 40mm to 40 x 200mm . 


ITC Rev . 2 CCCN 

Code No. Code No. 
28 . Polyester Filament yarn excluding 

base flat - first quality ( Fully /parti 
ally oriented ), Nylon filament yarn 
and thread oxcluding - 

651 . 41 31 .01) 

.02/ .03/ 

651 . 49 .051. 06 
(1) Base flat- first quality (fully / 

partially orionted ) and ; 
(II) industrial nylon yarn of 210 

denler and above . 


to 


(III ) Carbon Stool squares In sizes 

ranging from 8 x 8mm to 
25 x 25mm . 


( iv ) Forging quality stcol billets/ 

bars / rods. 


(v ) Billots for Seamlose stool tubes 

ASTME 45 quality . 


29 . Titanium dioxide (both 

and Rutilo grados ). 


Anatase 


$ 22 . 4601 28 . 25 , 

4602 32 . 07 


(vi) Wido lange boam . 
(vl ) Toe Section . 


30. Natural rubber. 


232 


40 , 01 


31, Writiog and Printing Papor - all 

types excluding Art and chromo 
Paper and Art and chrome Board 


40 . Platos /coils hot rollod /cold rollod 

In all grades of carbon stoel of 
thickness 5 mm and abovo exclud 
ing plates /colls to bollor/ pressure 
vassols quality specifications exclud 
log tho following : 


48 


64 ) 
641 . 2 * 


" oxclud 


lng 


641. 2101/ 
2202 


674 . 1501 73 . 08 / 
674 . 1502 .09 / 
674 . 1503 913 / 
674 . 42 / . 15 
$ 2 /62 
674 , 92 


32, Acetato Pllament Yaro 

first quality . 


excluding 


651. 72 


51.011 
.02/ 03/ 
56 , 05) 
. 06 


Metal Scrap Trade Corpratton Ltd. 
33 . Sponge Iron 


( ) API Quality Stool (platos). 
(H ) Plates in specification ASTMA 

388 Gr. A . 
( III) Platos above 8 mm thick 

WSTE -36 . 
(Iv) Platos IS 2062 (Woldablo 

Quality ). 
(v ) Platos above 1500mm width 

IS - 226 . 


671. 321 


73 . 05 


. 33 


34. Carbon stoel melting scrap of all 

grados. 


282 .6900 73 . 03 


35. Carbon stoel ro-rollable 

all grades. 


scrap of 


- do 


do 


(V ) ARMCO soft Iron platos . 
(vil ) Shipbuilding quality platos 

conforming to Lloyds grados 
B / C / D / E . 


36 . Alloy stool (locluding stainless / 

heat rosłsting /high speed steen 
melting scrap but oxcluding ro 
rollable scrap . 


282 .02 73 . 03 


ing. 


89. 04 


37 , Old ships , vossola , etc ., for break 

793 .3000 
Miner als & Metals Trading Corporation of India 
38 . Pig Iron (all grados other than pig 

iron containing phosphorous not 
more than 0 . 1 % . 

671 . 2 


41. All coatod /plated including gal 

vanisod , aluminium and aluminium 
alloy coated and uncoated shoots / 
strips/ colls of all grades of carbon 
steel bot rolled or cold rolled not 
elsewhoro mentioned but excluding : 672 . 72 

675 . 02 


73 . 08/ 

09 / 
. 12 / 
13 / 


73. 01 


Carbon Steel Items (all grades) 
39. Ingots /slabs/bloomg/ billets /shoot bar / 

bars and rods (includlog rode/ 
squares/ flats /hexagons/ octagons / 
wire rods ) and structurals (includ 
Ing angles/ boams/channels/jolsts / 
tecg/sheet piling Section / Zsoc 
tion ) excluding the following : 672 . 52 ( 73 .06 / 

672 .4200 1 . 071 
673 . 12 

. 101 
673. 22 1 . 111 
673 . 37 1 . 15 


(1) Plastic /vinyl coated shoots/ 

strips /colls . 
(11) Copper Boaring Shoots / Colls 

in specification ASTMA 388 

Gr, A . 
(UN) CR coils and sheets to IS 513 

Grado o . 
( iv ) Cold rolled D /DD /EDD 

quality sheets / colls . 
(v) Hot rolled Colis/ shoots /Skelps . 
( 11 ) Cold Rolled Stoel strips 12mm 

wide and below . 


(1) Cold heading quality carbon 

stoelwito rods. 


[ TR 


] 


भारत का राजपन : असाधारण 


155 


mrn 11 


APPENDIX S PART- A - Concla . 


ITC Rov . 2 CCCN 
Code No. Code No . 


(d ) Loadod froe cutting steel flats / 

hoxagons/octagong (including 
spoclAcations whloh contain 
both load and high sulphur 
In tho samo specification ). 


73 . 13 


NSC 


ITC Roxy 2 CCCN 

Code No . Code No . 
(v1 ) Cold Rollod high carbon 

(Carbon 0 .6 % and above ) 
stool strips, unhardenod and 

untempored . 
(vii) Copper Coated Cold rollod 

low Carbon stoel strips for 

manufacturo of Bundy Tube . 
42. Coated stoel shocts/strips/colls 

markoted as tin froostool and 
markotod 15 printod stool/sheets / 
strips /coils . 

NSC 
* 43 . Galvanised /alumintum alloy coated 

fron /steel sheets /strips /colls in 
corrugatod shapes . 

NSC NSC 
44 . Electrical steel shoots /strips /coil . 

( all grado including alloy steel 
grade ) bot rolled /cold rollod non 
grain orientod and grain oriontod 
oxcluding the following : 

NSC NSC 
(1) Eloctrical Stool Shoots CRGO 

Spoc : Gr. M4. 
(1 ) Eloctrical Stoel Shoots Gr. M 

2H . 
45. Tin Plate Prime (Non -OTS 
Quality ). 

687 .2200 80 . 03 
Alloy Steel (all grades ) 
46 . Ingots /slabs/blooms/billots/shoot 

bars /bars and rods including rods/ 

quaros/ flats/hoxagong / ootagono/ 
and structurals including anglos / 
channels /beams/joists / toos / z Soo 
don in stainloss /hoat rosisting stoel 
of all grados axcluding Stainlong 
Stool flats . 

672 . 43 1 
672 . 44 
673 . 24 
23 /37/38 / 73 . 15 


51. Alloy Stoel wiro rods in colls in ali 

grados including high speed stool 
wiro rods ( cobalt grade ) but ox 
cluding the following : 

673 . 13 
(a ) To spoclflçatlon IS -4454 

(Part III) — 1975. 
(b ) Non - cobalt grado high spood 

stool wiro rods . 
(c) Loaded froo cutting stoel wiro 

rode (including specifications 
which contain both lead and 
high sulphur in tho samo spocl 

fication ). 
32 . Hot rollod /cold rolled colls, strips , 

plates and shoots ( including those 
toldod in any shape ), In stainless/ 
hoat rolsting stool in all grados ex 
cluding the following : 

672 . 74 
674 . 14 / 


73 . 15 


15 


Cold rollod strips in colls of 
width 5 , 00 mm - 22 . 40 mm and 
thloknons 0 . 100 . 13 mm for 

razor blades . 
(H ) Stainles /boat resisting tool 

strips /flats conforming to 
AISI 303 and 304 in width 
below 31mm and in thicknos 
below 10 mm for manufacturo 
of watch casos. 


39 


672 . 54 , 
672 . 33 


(1 ) Stainloss heat resisting stoel 

strips conforming to AISI 
304 and 316 In width below 
31mm and thickness below 
0 .4 mm for manufacturo of 
par nlbs . 


673 . 14 


13 . 15 


47, Stainless /hoat resisting stoel wtro 

rods In coils . 
48 , AU soconds /socond grados /dofoo 

tives / cuttings/circles of all grados 
of alloy stocl ( including stainless / 
hoat resisting /high epood stool) to 
any epocification /analysis in coat 
od /uncoatod condition in any form 
soction / sizo / catogory Including to 
rollable scrap but axcluding melt 
ing scrap . 


282 . 0200 73 . 03/ 
282 . 0900 , 15 


(tv ) Stainless steel strip ! conform 

ing to AISI 304 in thickness 
0 . 233 to 0 . 314 mm and width 
75 mm max . for manufacturo of 

watoh strap . 
(v ) Stainlous stool plato of thick 

Dosy abovo 12 mm and width 

above 1. 25 metor . 
(VI ) Stainless steel strips (AISI 304 

quality ) less than 0 . 3 mm thick 
Dess for manufacture of capll 

lary tubos . 
(vil) Stainloos stool strips in alzos 

ranging from 100mm to 150 mm 
and thickness 0 .5 mm to 1.5 
mn . 


282.02/09 73 . 03 


49 . All grados /compositions of alloy / 

stalnless /hoat rosisting /high spood 
stoel scrap including ro-rollablo 
scrap but axcluding, 

(1) melting scrap . 
( 1) Stainless steol scrap to spocl 

fication AISI- 316 , CF 3M / 

316L , Alloy 20 and HV- 9 . 
50 . Alloy stocl ingots /blooms/slabs / 

billets excluding the following : 

(a) High spood stool. 
(h) Stainless /heat resisting stool. 
(c ) Hollow drill stool bars / 100m 

tions . 


672 . 44 


73 . 15 


NOTE : - (1) The terminology and definitions for Iron and 

stool (Including forro -alloys) itoms are in acor 
dance with thoso appearing in the Customs 

Tariff Act, 1975 . 
(2 ) Non -forrous metals canallood for import through 

MMTC will be in " upwrought " form only. 
Thoir Import in wrought form will be govornod 
by respectivo antrios in other Appendices. 


156 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SEC . 1 ] 


APPENDIX 


Contd . 


PART- B 


{"ETROLEUM PRODUCTS , FERTILISERS ,DRUGS , FEATURE FILMS/VIDEO FILMS, OIL /SEEDS , 

CEMENT, CEREALS , NEWSPRINT, FATTY ACIDS ETC . 


ITC Rev. 2 
Code 


CCCN 
Code 


Petroleum Products 

1. The following items will be import 
ed by only the Indian Oil Corporation 
under Open Gencral Licence , on the basis 
of foreign exchange released by Govern 
ment in its favour. Imports , distribution 
and their pricing will be made by the 
Indian Ou Corporation as per the conoc 

tod policy of Goverrunent in the Minis 
I try of Potrolourn : 


ITC Rev . 2 CCCN 

Code No. Code No. 
(20) All types of potroleum Jelllos. 335 . 1100 27 .12 
(21) Tolueno. 

511 . 2300 29 .01 


(22 ) Transformer oil other than 

synthetic and Transformer oil 
bese stocks of both mineral and 
synthotlo origin . 

334.3 27. 10 
(23) Turbine oll, 

334 , 5 27. 10 
(24) White ofl. 

334 . 5 

28 . 10 
(25) Raw potroloum Coko . 

334 . 4200 27 . 14 
(26) Bitumon (asphalt ) – Paving grado, 333 . 4100 27 . 14 
(27) Crude spiked with LPG . 335 .4100 27 . 14 


(1) Aviation Specialities of both 

synthetic and minoral origin . 
(2) Baso lubricating oll. 
(3) Bonzono . 


334 . 1 27 . 10 
334.3 27. 10 
511 . 2200 29 . 01 
333. 0000 27 .09 
NSC 27. 10 


(4 ) Crudo oil , 
(5) Motal Working/Machining Oils. 
(6) Gronses (other than patroloum 

jellies ) of all grades and types ox 
cluding watch greases , 


334 . 5200 27. 10 

34 . 03 


Fertilizers : 

2 . In the case of the following items, 
imports will bo mado by Minerals & 
Metals Trading Corporation on behalf 
of the Government of India in Ministry 
of Agriculturo und RUsul Dev 
elopment under OGL . Foreign 
Exchange roquired for the purpose will 
will be released by the Governmont in 
favour of MMTC . The imports , dis 
tribution and their pricing will be mado 
by the MMTC as per the connocted policy 
of tho Government in the Ministry of 
Agriculturo . and Rural Development 


( 7 ) Heat transfor 

mineral origio 


oil - al 


typos , 


334 . 5 


27 . 10 


334 . 2100 


27 . 10 


(8) Korosono . 
(9 ) Liquid paraffin including phar 

macopocial grade, 


335 . 1201 27 . 13 


(10 ) Lubricating oil and groase of 

both synthotic and mineral origin , 
packod grado. 

334 . 5 


335, 1209 
334, 5 


27. 10 
34 . 03 
27 . 13 
27. 10 


( ) Nitrogenous 

(1) Ammonium sulphato . 
(2) Urea , 
(3) Ammonlum sulphato altrato. 
(4 ) Calcium ammonium nitrato. 
(5) Nitrato of ammonia (ammonlum 

nitrato ) 
(6) Nitrato of soda. 
(7) Nitrate of limo. 


562 . 1300 31 .02 
562 . 1600 31 . 02 
562 . 1200 31 . 02 
562 . 9900 31 . 02 


(11) Microcrystalline wax . 
(12 ) Mineral oils, 
( 13 ) Mineral oil for tho manufacturo 

of insocticidas . 
( 14 ) Motor Spirit. 
(15) Naptha. 


334 . 5 27 . 10 
334 . 1100 27 . 10 


335 . 2502 27. 07 


562 . 1100 31 . 02 
271. 2000 31 .02 
562 . 1401 31 . 02 
562 .1500 31 .02 
523 , 9903 28 .58 


(16) Oll for batching of juto, wool or 

other fibres . 


(8 ) Calcium cynamide. 


334 . 5 
334.5 


27 . 10 
27. 10 


(17) Shock absorbor oil. 


( II) Phosphalt 

(1) Rook phosphato. 


(18 ) Graphited oil for lubrication of 

glass moulds . 


334 . 5 


27 . 10 


271 . 3109 / 25 . 10 
3209 


(19 ) All types of lubricating oils in 

bulk , 


(2) Triplo- super -phosphato . 


334 . 5 


27 . 10 / 
34 . 03 


562 . 2200 31. 03 
562. 2900 31 . 03 


(3) Minoral phosphate . 


[ RT 


1 ] 


भारत का राजपत : असाधारण 


157 


APPENDIX 5 PART- B - Contd . 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code No . Code No . 


( 4) Minoral super-phosphato . 
(5) Basic slag . 


ITC Rev . 2 CCCN 
Code No . Code No. 

562 . 2200 31. 03 
562 . 2100 31. 03 


( 11) Piporazine ( diethylene diamino ) 

anhydrous hoxahydrato . 


NSC 


29 . 35 


(12 ) Stroptomycloo sulphato . 


541 . 3200 / 29 . 44 
7104 


( ii ) Potassic : 

(1) Sulphate of potash . 


562. 3200 31 . 04 


(13) Vitamin A and Pre -miros of 

Vitamin A . Vitamin D - 3 , Vita 
min E and its derivatives , 
Menadiono , Monadione - Sodium 
bisulphite and Aceto monadione 
and Vitamin C . 


(2 ) Murlato of potash (potassium 

chloride other than Industrial 
grado ). 


562 . 3101 31.04 


541. 1/ 
6103 


29 . 38 


Feature Films (Cinematograpb Films, 
Exposed ) /Vidoo Fllow 


883 


882 . 2401/ 37 . 04 / 

37 . 05 / 
37 ,07 


( iv ) Complex : 

(1) Di-ammonium phosphato. 562 . 9200 31. 04 
(2) Aminonium phosphate of various 
grados. 

562 . 9200 31 . 05 
(3 ) Ammonium nitrophosphate of 

various grades . 
(4 ) Mono ammonium phosphato . 562. 9200 31. 05 
(5 ) NPK -complex fortilisers of var 
Jous grades. 

562 .9100 31 .05 


323 . 2219 


4 . In the case of foature films Includ 
ing Vidco rights of foreign foature films 
and Video Films (except Video films 
imported by Door- Darshan ), Import will 
by made only by the National Film Devo 
lopment Corporation under Open Gen 
eral Licence , on tho basis of forolgn ex 
chango roloased by tho Government in 
its favour. Imports , distribution and 
their pricing will be made by the Nationg) 
Film Hovolopment Corporation as per 
tho connected polioy of Government in the 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
Olls /Soads 


Drugs 


3 . In tho case of the following items, 
Import will bo mado only by tho Stato 
Trading Corporation of India (STC ), 
undor Open Goneral Liconco , on the basis 
of foroign oxchange reloased by the Gover 
mont in its favour . Imports, distribution 
and their pricing will be made by the STC 
as per the connectod policy of tho 
Government in the Ministry of Chemi 
cals and Fertilizers : 


3. In the case of the following items, 
whother odible or non - ediblo , import will 
bo made by the State Trading Corpora 
tion of India (STC ) / Hindustan Vege 
tablo Oils Corporation , New Delhi ( A 
Govt. of India Undertaking) undor Open 
General Liocence on the basis of foreign 
exchange released by tho Government 
in its favour. Imports , distribution and 
their pricing will be made by the STC , 
Hindustan Vegotable Oils Corporation, 
Now Delhi as per the connected policy of 
the Government, in the Ministry of Food 
and Civil Supplies , Department of Civil 
Şupplies : 


(1) Acetyl salicylic acid . 


541. 7904 29 . 16 


541.3909 29. 44 


(2 ) Amoxacillin ( including Amoxa 

cillin Trihydrate ) excluding 

Amoxacillin sodium , 
(3) Ampicillin trihydrate and Am 

picillin anhydrons excluding 
Ampicillin sodium . 


541. 3909 29 .44 
NSC 29 .44 


(4 ) 6 - APA . 


(1) Coconut oil, 
(2) Copra . 
( 3) Groundnut oil. 


424 . 3000 15 07 
223 . 1000 12 . 01 
423 . 4 /22 . 1 15 . 07 

12 01 


(4) Palm oil (all types, including palm 

olein and other fractions) 
Palm seeds . 


( 5 ) Chloroquin phosphato and di 

phosphate excluding chloro 
quin sulphato . 

341. 7911 29 . 35 
(6 ) Doxycycline baso, its hydrate / 

byclato /hydrochlorido/calciun 

complex and intermediates thereof NSC 29 . 44 
(7) Dapsono di-amino diphenyl 
sulphono 

541. 7924 - 
(8 ) Erythromycin (basa ), erythro 

mycin estolato and crythro 
mycin stearato , oxcluding Ery 
thromycin othyl succinato. 541. 3902/ 29. 44 

7103 


(5) Raposood 011 /socda . 


(6 ) Safflower oil /scods. 


223 . 2000/ 12 . 01 / 
424 . 2000 15 . 07 
222 .6000 12 .01 
423 .9100 15 . 07 
223. 8008 12 .01 
424 . 9008 15 . 07 
222 .2000 12 . 01 
423 . 2000 15 . 07 
222 . 4000 12 . 01 
423 . 6000 15 . 07 
222 . 3000 12 . 01 
423 . 3000 15 . 07 


(7) Soyabead oil /soods . 


(8) Sunflowor oil ; and 


(9) Etbambutol, 
(10 ) Methyl dopa. 


NSC 
NSC 


29 . 23 
29 . 23 


(9 ) Cotton seed oils. 


158 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - SBC . 1] 


APPENDLX S PART- B - Concld , 


CCCN 
Coda No . 


IT Roo. 2 

Code No. 
all other oils /soods, whother odible or 
non - odible including vogotablo fats, not 
spocifically mentionod above or elsewhore 
In this policy , (but oncluding Tung oil / 
China Wood oil and natural essential oils) 
will also be imported only by STC /Hindu 
stan Vogotable Oils Corporation , Now 
Dolbi under these provisions. 


ITC - Rev . 2 CCCN 

Code Code 
STC as per the connected policy of Gov 
erament in tho Ministry of Industry and 
Company Affairs , 
(1) Lauric Acid 

431.3 15 . 10 


(U ) Oleic Acid 


29.14 


513,7916 
. 7917 
. 7923 


- 


Nowsprint 

6 . In tho case of nowsprint, import will 
bo made only by tho Stato Trading Cor 
poration of India (STC ) under Open Gon 
oral Licenco on tho basis of foreign ex 
chango released by the Government in its 
favour , Imports , distribution and pricing 044 /045 / 
will be mado by the STC as por tho con - 042/ 041/ 
noctod policy of Government in the Min - 043 
istry of Information and Broadcasting. 


(HI) Stearic Acid 
( lv ) Palmitic Acid 
(v) Palm Fatty Acid 
( ) Palm Add On 


- 


10 ,01/ 
.02. 03 
7.04 .031 
06 /. 07 


424.4000 


15 .07 


(vtl) Palm Kernel Oil 
(viil) Palm Stearios 


431.2009 


15 .10 


(1x ) Othor Fatty Acids, puro or mlod 

Including Add Oils , all types 


431 3 


13.10 


(x ) Soap stocks 


NSC 


15 . 17 


(x1) Talow amloos including primary . 

socondary , tertiary and quartor 
nary 

NSC 


NSC 


Cereals 

7 . In tho case of cereals, import will 
bo mado only by the Food Corporation 
of India (FCI) undor Open General Lic 
enco on the basis of foreigo oxchange ro 
leased by tho Government In its favour , 
Imports , distribution and pricing will bo 
made by FCI as per the connected policy 
of Government in the Ministry of Food 
and Civil Supplies (Doptt . of Food ). 
Cement including ciloker but ozchudlay 
ONI Well Cement required by ONGO 
oll India Limited . . . . . 

8. In the caso of coment including 
clinker but axcluding Oil Woll Comont 
roquired by ONGC/OU India Limited , 
the import will be made only by the Stato 
Trading Corpuration of India (STC ), 
undor Opon Genoral Liconce , on the basis 
of foreign exchango reloasod by the 
Government in its favour. Imports , dis 
tribution and pricing will be made by the 
STC as por the connectod policy of 
Govornmont In tho Ministry of Industry 
and Company Affairs , 


(xt ) Hydrogenated tallow aminos , inc 

ludlog primary , secondary , tortlary, 
and quarternary 

* NSC 


NSC 


1 


23 . 23 


(XIII ) Qleyl aminos including primary , 

socondary, torulary and quarter 
дагу 


NSC 


NSC 


(xiv) Stearyl emines including primary , 

kocondary , tortlary and quarterpary NSC 


NSC 


Nutmeg Maco 


075. 240 / 


0 . 908 


- 2402 


Fatty Acids and Acid Olls. 


9. In the case of the following itoms, 
Import will be made only by tho Stato 
Trading Corporation of India (STC ). 
under Open General Llconce on the basis 
of foreign exchange roloased by the Gov 
ernment in its favour. Imports , distri 
bution and pricing will be mado by tho 


10 . In the case of Nutmog /maco, tho 
Import will be made only by the National 
Agricultural Co -operative Marketing 
Federation of India (NAFED ). Now 
Dolbl, under Open Ganoral Licence on 
tho banks of forotgn oxchango relcasod by 
the Government in its favour. Imports, 
distribution and pricing will be made by 
the NAFED as per the connectod policy 
of Government in tho Ministry of Agri 
culturo And Rural Development . 


Noto 1 


1. ITC Rov. 2 and CCCN code numben have been amigned to facilitato collection of data only . 


2. These will be reproduced on the bills of entry Wlad by the importar and op Uconoom whonever issuod . 


3 . Thoso , bowever , will not be binding on oustonu authorities for clavalfication for tartt purposes, 
4 . The interpretation of the Import-Export pulky will, novou , ooptious to be us per doucription of the liems glved in that 

Appenallt agd not according to the code Numbur reland , 


3. " NSC " atrode for Not Brunil Clausthede 


[ HTI 


1 ] 


भारतका राजपन : मसाधारण 


159 


NUR 


APPENDIX 6 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


Items 


IMPORT OF ITEMS UNDER OPEN GENERAL LICENCE 
The categories of Importers , the items allowed to be imported by them under Opco General Licence and the 
conditions governing their importation are set out below - 

Categories of eligible importers 
1 . Raw materials , components and consumables (non - Actual Users (Industrial) 

iron and steel items) other than those included in the 

Appendices 2 . 3 Part- A , Sand 8 . 
2 . Iron and steel items other than those included in the Actual Users (Industrial) and Oil Refinerica. 

Appendices 2 , 3 Part- B and 5 Part- A . 
3 . Capital Goods covered by Appendix 1 Part- B Actual Users (Industrial and Non - Industrial). 
4. Permissible spares (I.e., items other than those inclu - Actual Users ( Industrial and Non - Industrial). 

ded in Appendices 2, 3 Part -A , 8 and 10). 
3 . Raw materials , components , consumables , machi- Research and Development units, scientific or research 

nery , equipment, instruments , accessories, tools and laboratories, institutions of higher education and 
spares excluding office machines. 

hospituls , recognised by the Central or a State 
Government. 


(ii) Film of audio canal nature 


6 . Jigs , fixtures, dics and patterns, covulds ( including Actual Users (Industrial). 

moulds for diecasting ), and press tools (other than 
those in Appendicos 1 Part - A , 2 and 3 Part- A ) and parti 

thereof. 
7 . Teaching Alds, the following : 

Recognised educational, scientific , technical and 
(1) Microfilms and Microfiches of educational researoh institutions , libraries of such institutions, 

nature, with or without staders cuin - printers, and Contral or State Government departments , industrial 
Film strips/ slides of educational oature with or units engaged in Research and Developaent work , 
without audio cassettes , audio cassettes /video registered medical institutions, hospitals , consultant , 
tapes of educational nature and video discs of rcoognised Chambers of Commerce , producitvity 
oducational pature . 

Councils , management associations and professional 

bodies . 
8. Computer/Computer based system costing below By all persons for their own use. 

Rs. 10 Lakhs ( c.1.f.) . 
9 . Spares for computer By - 01 

Actual Usors and others es permitted to Chapter VI 
10 . Poultry vaccliv #, all typy * . 

Poultry farms/ atcherion « pprovvrd by the Department 

of Agriculture and Cooperation , New Delhi. 
11, Raw materials , components , consumables , machinery , Oil & Natural Gas Commission (ONGC ) /Oil India 
oquipment, instruments , accessories , tools and spares. Ltd .,/Gas Authority of India Ltd . (GAIL ), Bharat 

Gold Mines Ltd ., and those public sector under 
takings receiving off -shore / on -shore contracts from 
ONGC/OU lodia Ltd ./GAIL , as per conditions 
stipulated . 


12 Capital Goodb, componcota, rav owledalo, contan - Ship repairing qults , rogistered with Director General 
ables and spare 

of Shippiog . Bombay ( worklog lp customs bondod 

promla ), 
13 . Apy Itom required as raw material, componeat, Industrial undertaklags engaged in ship -building, 

consumable (including consumable tools ) or spares, repairing , subject to Actual User condition . In respect 
in the manufacturo/ ropair of ship (other than those of electronic items, prior clearance of the Department 
items appearing in Appendices 1 Part A , 2 , 3 and 5 . of Blootronice , Now Delhi, as required under the 

Import polloy would be obtained and produced to the 

customs authority at the time of clearance . 
14 . Capital Couda /t0s blony. 

M /s Cual Indla Lid . 
Mr. Neyveli Lignite Corpuratud Ltd . 
M /s . Bharat Coding CoalLG 
M /H . Central Coalfield . Ltd 


- 


- 


- 


HA11 - 


4 


- 


- 


- 


- 


160 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 Sec . 1] 


APPENDIX 


conta . 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


Items 


Categories of eligible importers 


M /s , Eastern Coalfields Ltd . 
M /6 . Wastern Coalfields Ltd . 
M /s . Central Mine Planning & Design Institute Ltd . 

M /s. Singarepi Collierles Company Ltd . 
15, Machinery, equipment, testing apparatus, tools and Registered Exporters of Gem and Jewellery , Coopera 

implements required for gem and jewellery industry tive societies of goldsmiths and artisans and Export 
as per Lust 1 of this Appendix . 

Promotion Council for Gom and Jewellery for use 
in the Institutes set up by the Council and Regional 
Training Institutions connocted with Gom and 

Jewellery industry. 
16 . Medical gas cylinders 10 .2 litros and below water Actual Users (Industrial) having Industrial Licence / 
copacity . 

Registration for manufacture of medical gas (oxygen ) 
and /or Nitrous Oxide and having valid licenco 

Issued under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 . 
17. CO , Gas cylinders upto 15 litros water capacity for Actual Users (Industrial) having Industrial Licence/ 
fire extinguishers. 

Registration for manufacture of fire extinguishers. 
18. Greases /lubricating oil. 

Actual Users ( Industrial ) provided cif value of such 
goods imported in a financial year shall not exceed 
Rs. 10 , 000 subject to production of " No -Objection 
Certificato " from Indian Oil Corporation , Marketing 

Division , Bombay. 
19 . Drugs and medicines , 

- (1) By hospitals or medical institutions for theit own 

uso , provided the c.i.f. value of such good . 
imported at any one time shall not exceed 

twentyfive thousand rupees 
(2 ) By any individual for his personal use provided 

the c .i. f. váluo of such goods imported at any 
ono time sball pot exceed or thousand rupees ; 

and . 
(3) By registered medical practitioners for their own 

professional use provided the c. i.f. value of such 
goods imported at any one time shall pot exceed 

rupees five thousand , 
20 . (a ) Medical including surgical, optical and dental (1) By hospitals or medical institutions for their own 

instruments, apparatus and appliances and use , provided the c .i.f. value of such goods impor 
replacement parts and accessories thereof , and I ted shall not exceed two lakh rupees in a financial 
dental materials. 

year ; 
Sutures and nocdies for surgical purposes , as By registered medical practitioners for their own 
per List 5 of this Appendix . 

use , provided the c .l.f. valuo of such goods impor 
ted Bhall not excond five thousand rupees los 

financial year. 
21. X - Ray intensifying scrocns. 

By hospitals and radiological clinics for their own 
uso , provided the c .i. f. valuo of such goods imported 
at any one time shall not exceed fifty thousand 

rupcos. 
22 . Scientific and measuring instruments and chomicals . By profossionals in the fields of science , technology 

ongiocoring and medicino , for their own purposes 
(to which effoct evidenco shall be produced to the 
customs authorities ), provided the c. i.f. value of such 
goods importod shall not excocd ten thousand rupces 

in a financial year . 
23 . Testing equipment tosting instruments and chemicals . Testing laboratories approved under the Drugs and 

Cosmetics Act, 1940 , of a total value Dot exceeding 
Rs. 50 ,000 (o . i.f .) in & yoar for their own use on 
production of rocommendation of State Drugs 
Controller . 


[ MTI - 


1 ] 


भारत का राजपत्र मसाधारण 


161 


- - 


m 


- 


APPENDIX 6Cond. 


Items 


Categories of eligible Importers 


- - 


- 


24 


142 parts of motor vehicles and agricultural tractors . 


25 . Amateur radio communication equipment including 

kits, accessories (including antenna, retarary motors, 
feed lines , standing wave ratio bridge ) instruments , 
spares and components. The equipment is to conform 
within tho following frequency ranges and power 
limitations. 


By persons OWDIDg imported vehicle agricultural 
tractor upto a c. i.f . value of five thousand rupues lo 
a financial year, for their own wo. 
By licensed radio amateurs for their own purpose 
( evidence shall be produced to the Customs authori 
ties to this effect ), provided the ci. f. value of such 
goods imported in a financial year does not exceed 
Rs. 15 ,000 . Goods imported shall not be trans 
ferred to any individual or party without prior 
permission of the Wireless Planning & Coordination 
Wing of the Ministry of Communication , Govt. 
of India . 


1. High frequency ( H . F .) 


Meter 
Baod 


Frequeucy range 


Output 
power limit 


150 


160 m 1.8 to 2 .0 Mhz 

150 Watts 
80 m 

3 , 5 to 4 .0 Mhz 
40 m 

7.0 to 7.5 Mhz 150 , 
20 m 14 .0 to 14. 50 Mha 
15 m 

21.0 to 21. 50 Mhz 
10 m 

28 .0 to 30 . 00 Mbz . 150 
II. Very High Frequency (VHF) 
2 m 144 to 146 Mhz 

25 Watts. 
III . Ultra Algh Frequency (UHF) 

430 60 440 Mhz . 25 watts . 
Note : The H . F . tragsreceivers also incorporate either 

10 Mhz or in 15 Mhz standard frequency recoption 

facility for calibration purposes . 
26 . Gibberellic Acid 


Stato agricultural development corporations, coopo 
rativo societies of farmors and Associations of farmers 
rocognised by the State Government, for distribution 
to grape grovers . 


27. Grape Guard Paper 


28 . Broken Electric motors. 

Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Ltd , for supply of 

salvago materials to actual users . 
29. Electromagnetic Water conditioning system . 

Local bodies (Municipal Corporations etc.), Govern 
mont Departments and other Public Sector Under 

takings. 
30 . Photographic chemicals - developers , fizers , intensifion , O ) Actual Users rogistered under tho local lav 
reducers, toners and cloading agents . 

applicable to Shops & Establishments. 
( U ) Studios film processing laboratories and testing 

laboratorios cortified as such by the State 

Diroctor of Industry . 
31 . Instruments and equipment required by the blind , in By all persons. 

cluding Braille typewriters. 
32. Educational, scientific and technical books and jour By all persons. 

nals , news-magazinos and newspapers (vide list 7) . 
33 . Life saving oquipment as per List 2 of this Appendix . By all porsons. 

and their spares , 


- 


162 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART - Sec . 1 ] 


. 


TL 


APPENDIX O - conta 


-- - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - - - 


- - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 
Item 


Catogories of cligiblo loportert 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


) 


By g/l реrѕом. 


By all persons. 


By all persons. 


By all persoda . 


By all persons . 
By all persons 


34 . Family welfare equipment/ instruments , appliances. 

namely the following : 
(1) (a ) Laproscope ; (b ) Culdscope , (c) Hysteroscope 

( d ) Vacuum suction apparatus ; (c ) as well as 

their accessories and spares ) 
(11 ) Rubber contraceptives (diaphragms only ) 
( ili ) Cntrautering Contraceptive Devices (other than 

the Lippes Loop and Cu - T200 ), coloured con 
doms, diaphragms, jolly and foam tablets , as 
approved by the Drugs Controller (India ), New 

Delhi, 
( rv) Falopo rings (silastic bands). 
35. Finished drug preparations, life saving and antik 

cancer drugs, as per List 3 of this Appendix . 
36 Homoeopathic medicinos in finished form or Homo 

eopathic drugs (single ) in basic form and /or of any 
potency , including " Sugar of Milk " lo bulk and blo 

chemic medicines. 
37. Crude drugs required for making Ayurvedic and 

Unani medicines as per List 4 of this Appendix ( Im 
port of jade , pearls , and corals will be allowed 
only in powder form and of non - fewellery quality 

only ). 
38 . Pulser , 
39 . Spices , the following I 

(1) Cinoamoa/Cassia . 

(2) Clover , 
40 Dates (wet or dry) imported by Indian sailiog vossels , 
41 Rock Sali . 
42 . ( ) X -ray Olmos (redical) the followings 

ti) Ciao augiographic films, 
(2 ) Copying filmas (for Copying X -Ray 

radiograpb ) 
Dental X Ray tila 
Pilos fur uso without yrrcns 
Lo -dose commographic film . . 
Mas miniature film . 
39 mm negative and revonal type for 
duplicating films 

Personal monikorlog films 
(9 ) Special types of X - Ray Gran uned for 

changer 
( 10 ) X - ray film for oal C+ 00489 
( 11) Aerographic filme. 

) Photo - type -stung R . C ./* usbillsattva paper. 
( tv ) Thermographic polymid ralelng add cmbursin 

puwder for printing industry 
(v) Microfile films 
( W ) Infra -red and Ultra -solat Glan. 

( vtt) Kidney surgery Alman, 
43. Rudraksha beads 
44 , Lubricatog Oils for watchet, clock and timp pleco 

and bouse service meten . 


By all persons. 
By all periodu . 


ටයිමටමම 


By all periodu . 


By All рrош, 
By all porton . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


VIN - . - - 


- 


EVA 


[HTI 


1] 


भारतका राजपत : भसाभारण 


163 


APPENDIX 6 - ( conid ) 


Stems 


Categories of eligible Importers 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


A 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


45 . (a ) Non -fictional educational and instructional films, 

(including video films) certified by the Central Board 
of Film Certification to be " pre -dominantly educational 
and non -fictional" . 


By all persons . 


By all portons . 


By all Person . . 


(6 ) Fictional, educational and instructional films in 
16 om gaugo of 800 meters or less in longth , certified by 
the Contral Board of Film Certification to be " pro 

dominantly educational" . 
46 Spares, cxcept these included to the Appendioon 

2 , 3, Part - A , 8 and 10 , of : 
( 1) Printing machinery . 
(2 ) Machine tools for cutting , forming, abrading 

and polishing metals , wood , glass and plastics 

including any standard or ancillary equipment . 
(3) Cinematographic equipment including thc 

following : 

(1) picture and sound printing lamps , 
( i ) projection lamps - - Xenon or tungsten , 
(11 ) lonses /zoom lenses includiog cinemascopo 

lenses, and 
(iv ) projection volume indicaton , 
(4 ) Trawlers. 
47. Energy saving /conservation equipment, including 

systems and devices working on / used for 
Renewable and Alternate sources of porgy . the 
following : 

(0) Wind drivco generature. 
( ) Solar Energy equipmcor 
(H ) Parabolic focussing systems of the automata 

electronic tracking type , including photo 

cloctric sensors, 
( iv ) Portable exbaust gas and combustion analyson 

(v ) Steam trap leak detector. 
( v1) Ultrasonic leak deta lor . 

( ) Solar heat control filme. 
48 . Ozone Generating Apparatus 
49 . Photographic nm (colour) 
50 . Smoke melors - Hartridge and Bosch types - - for 

automobilo exhaust. 
$ 1 . Exhaust Gas Analysere for measurement of Co , 

HC , NOX , CO2 ( one or more of these pollutants ) 
coming from vobicular exhaust -- for automobilo 

exhaust. 
52 . Photographic colour paper, 
53 Photographic film (black and white ) other than 120 

and 620 slze rolls . 
54. Cinematographic ilms, notopouod the following 

(1) 8 mm ( orii or ) and 

( II) & mu (1 ) r14 and while -tegativo ). 
55. Dendalian as q* * Het of the Appendia . 
56 . Ophthalmic itoms as per llst 9 of this Appendix 
87. Records for lesrolog of laoguager , 
38 Fighing books 
59 . Out-board Motors opto 10 HP 

- - - - - - - - - - - - 


By all porkons. 
By all persoon , 
By all persons. 


By al persons 


By all persons. 
By all persons, 


By all persons, 


By all period . 
By all portone, 
By all person , 
By all persons 

By all porsons. 
- - - - 


164 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I - SEC. 1] 


APPENDIX 6 Contd . 


Conditions governing Imports ander Open 

General Licence 


(1) Actual Users importing Capital Goods, Jigs 
etc ., raw materials , components , consumables and 
spares, as are covered under Open General Licence , 
shall be subject to " Actual User " condition , Imports 
under OGL should be mado only in conformity with 
the conditivas laid down . Actual Users shall also 
ensure that their imports undor OGL are strictly it 
accordance with their phased manufacturing prog. 
rammes and the conditions of their industrial licences / 
registrations with the sponsoring authorities con 
cerned . 


importer shall import the following minimum confi 
guration in one consignment : 

Each Central Processing Unit will include – 
(1) Operating System Software and adequate 

momory therefor. 
(11) Computer console. 
( iil) Two disk /cartridge/ tape drives and associat 

od controller (excluding floppy and cassette 

drives). 
(Iv) Ono printer with Platon width 80 print 

positions or more per line. 


( 2 ) In the case of Capital Goods listed in Appen 
dix 1 Part B , and Jigs , fixtures etc ., vide item No. 6 
in this Appendix , import of second- hand items may 
also be allowed under OGL, subject to the conditions 
laid down in the policy. 


Import of second-hand computer /computer 
based system shall not be allowed . 


(6 ) In the case of machinery , equipment etc . for 
gon & Jowellery , nde List I of this Appendix 


(3 ) In the case of Capital Goods , eligible Actual 
User may import the following also : 


(a ) Import of second -hand items may also be 

allowed under OGL, subject to the sameco 
ditions As have been laid down in the policy 
for Import of second -hand items of other 
OOL Capital Gooda 


( ) Import of supporting sparos of these equip 

mode etc . may be allowed upto 5 % of the 
main equipment. 


(a ) Spares of the relevant Capital Goods (whether 

of the permissible or rostricted types) 
upto 10 % of the value of the main equip 

ment ) 
(6 ) Accessories and toolings rcquired for the 

operation of the relevant capital goods, upto 
10 % of the value of the main equipment. If 
such accessories/ toolings are required for a 
value more than 10 % , the Actual User should 
obtain written clearance from the DGTD , 
New Delhi, indicating the actual value upto 
which such accessories /toolings may be allow 
od for the main equipment under OGL, 
and produce the same to the Customs 

Authority for clearance . 
(c) Import of standard accessories which are 

essential part of the main equipment and are 
required for its operation , without which the 
machino cannot function , may bo allowed to 
be imported under OGL with the main 
equipment without being restricted to 10 % 

value limit . 
( d ) Spares , accessories and toolings under these 

provisions may be allowed to be imported 
either alongwith the main equipment or 
subsequent thereto , but not before the arrival 
of the main equipment. 


(7Xa )Rescarch and Development units, scientifio of 
research laboratories, Institutions of higher education 
and hospitals , recognised by the Central or a State 
Government should ensure that only the essential 
itons required for their own bona fide purpose are 
Imported . Import of no consumer goods, howsoever 
described , will be allowed against this facility. Import 
of office machines will not be allowed . Also import 
of items covered by Entry No . 607 (32 ) in Appendix 
3 Part - A will not be allowed . Besides only Research and 
Development units and scientific or research labora 
tories may import prototypes /samples and pilot plant 
items. (In the case of Import of the live and attentua 
ted micro organism in any form for R & D purposes , 
prior permission from the Animal Husbandry 
Commissioner to the Government of India in the 
Departmont of Agriculture & Cooperation should be 
produced to tho satisfaction of the Customs authori 
tios at the time of clearance), 


( 4 ) In the case of jigs , fixtures, etc , pide item No. 
6 10 this Appendix , the eligible Actual User may 
import spares (whether of the permissible or restricted 
type ) upto 5 % of the value of the main item . 


( ) Import of Computers/Computer-based systems 
and sparos for computors will be allowed to eligible 
R & D Units etc., as referred to above , as per the policy 
applicable to other Actual Users . 


(5 ) In the case of computer /computer based 
systema costing below Rs. 10 lakhs (c.1.f.) vido item 
No . 8 above, import will be allowed by all persons, 
for their own use (but not for stock & salo purpose ), 
subject to the Actual User Condition . The concerned 


(c) R & D units etc . importing their requirements 
under Open General Licence shall furnish periodica ] 
returns of the imports made as prescribed by the 
Department of Science & Technology under intima 
tion to Chief Controller of Imports & Exporte , 


[ 9TI 


1] 


भारत का राजपक्ष : असाधारण 


165 


APPENDIX O Conra . 


(13) Imports of non -canalised man -made Abres, 
tow and yaras, under Open General Licence may 
also be made by the Stato Trading Corporation of 
India (STC ), New Delhi for distribution to eligible 
Actual Users subject to tho condition rogarding prior 
registration of contracts with the Toxtile Commissio 
der as laid down iD ( 11) above. 


(8 ) In the case of Capital Goods, equipment and 
permissible spares covered under Open General 
Licence , vide Items 3, 4 , 5 , 6 , 11 , 13 and 14 above , 
If the eligible Actual User importer enters into a 
firm contract for import upto the last date of February 
of the licensing year, but the goods cannot 
be shipped on or before 31st March of the 
licensing year on account of the longer 
delivery period involved , the shipment may be allowed 
upto 31st March of the following licensing year 
in pursuance of such firm contract , provided the 
contract, in question, is duly registered with a foreign 
exchange dealer (Bank ) on or before the last date of 
February of the licensing year. (Io specific 
cases , where the delivery period is still longer , CCI & E , 
New Dolbi may allow shipment under OGL upto a 
further extended date in consultation with the tech 
nical authorities concerned ). 


(9 ) In the case of Capital Goods , compononta , 
rav materials , consumables and spares vide item 
No. 12 above , by the Customs bonded Ship repairing 
upits, reglstored with Director Geacra ) of Shipping, 
Bombay , import will be subject to the conditions that 
the imported goods shall be used in the repair of 
occap going voosoly, whether Indian or foreign , in the 
custonia -honded premises and subject to the other 
condition ladicated in the registration certificate . 


(14 ) In the case of educational, scientific and tech 
nical books the following conditions shall apply : 

( ) Import will not be permitted by any one 

importer (including his branches ) of more 
than 1000 copies of a single title during the 
licensing period without the prior written 
clearance of the Ministry of Education , 
New Delhi. This restriction will not, how 
ever, apply to the English Language Books 
Society titles and books under the Joint 

Indo - Soviet Text Books Programmes 
(# ) Import of foreign editions of books for which 

editions of authorised Indian reprints are 

available will not be allowed ) 
(HI) Import of foreigo reprints of Indian publica - . 

tions will not be allowed without a specific 
prior written pormission of the Ministry of 

Bducation , New Delhi. 
(Iv ) Import of only such navigational charts of 

Indian coastlines will be allowed as are 
specifically cleared by the Chief Hydro 
grapher to the Goveroment of India , Dehra 

Dupi 
(o) Books , magazines, Journals and pro -recorded 

cassottos contaiping pornographic material or 
depicting scx , violenco , etc . will not be allowed 
for import. 


( 10 ) to the case of Insecticides, pesticides and 
woodicides , the Actual User Industrial) concerned 
Bball, within seven days of the clearance of each con 
algoment, intimate to the Department of Agriculture 
& co -opration (Plant Protection Division ) New Delhi, 
particulars of the items imported , the quantity and the 
c .i.f , valur borreof 


( v ) Import of unauthorised reprints of boots 

published abroad will not be allowed . 


( 11) In the case of o !) DOD -mado fibros , tom and 
yarpe Aloved to do Imported wider Open General 
Licenco , all eligible Importers , Actual Users (Iadus. 
trial) and others , shall be rojolrod to register their 
contracts with the Textile Complistonor , Bombay 
Imports shall be made only after the connected con 
tracts have been stamped by the Textile Commission 
ner, Bombay as evidence of such registration , For 
this purpose , two copios of the contract should be 
lodged with the Textile Commissioner and he will 
return onc copy to the importer duly stamped on oach 
page, for production to the customs at tho time of 
clearance of goods. At the time of registration of a 
subsequent contract, the eligible importer should also 
furnish a statement indicating the progress made in 
Import and utilisation / disposal of the imported 
material to respect of all the contracts carlior registered 
for fpformation / record of the Registering authority . 


(vtt ) Import of records /pre- recorded cassettes for 

ming an integral part of the book , which are 
of purely educational nature , can be made 
by institutions subject to the condition that 
tho supplier has certified that records/ pre 
recorded cassettos form an integral part of 
the book and tho connected invoico indi 
cates the details of records / pre -recorded 
cassottos , 


(12 ) In the case of raw wool/ greasy wool/scoured 
wool, not carded or combed , angora goat hair 
(mohair ). woollen rågs /synthetic rags/shoddy wool 
in completely pre-multilated condition , allowed to 
bc imported under Open General Licenco . tbc 
Import contract shall be registered with the Textile 
Commissioner io the samemannor, As lald down in 
condition (11 ) above . 


At the time of clearance through Customs, the 
Importer shall furnish a declaration to the effect that 
the books imported do not include those wbich 
aro not allowed as per import policy , 1985 - 88 . 

( 15 ) In the case of poultry vaccines , the import 
shall be subject to the following additional 
oonditions - 


(1) Tho importer Bhall, at the time of clearance of 

goods from the customs, furnish a specific 
recommncdation from Animal Husbandry 


166 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1- SEC . 1] 


APPRNDLX th - cunia . 


Commissioner to tho Government of India . 
Department of Agriculture, & Cooperation 
Nov Delhi regarding the essentiality of tho 
material (description /quantity /value) to the 
party concernodi 


( 11) The Importer concerned shall, within 15 days 

from the date of the clearance of tho consigo 
mont from Customs, intimate to the Depart 
ment of Agriculture and Cooperation , 
New Delhi, particulars of the items importod , 
the quantity and the c .i.l, valuo thoroof , 


(21 ) In the case of raw materials, compononts , 
consumables permissible for import under OGL 
by Actual Users (Industrlal) vide itoms 1 and 2 above , 
the eligible Actual Users may be allowed to effect 
shipment upto 30th June of the following licensing 
year against firm orders for which irrevocable letters 
of credit aro opened and established on or beforo 
the last dato of February of the licensing year . 
This facility will also be available in the case of raw 
materials allowed for import under OGL by all 
persons , where the importer is Actual User (Industrial) 
and imports the goods for use in his factory with 
* Actual Usor " condition . 


(tl) The Importod material shall be subject to 

" Actual User " condition at the hands of the 

poultry farm /batchory concernod . 
( 16 ) (a ). In the case of Dates, Import will also 
be allowed in traditional small packing. This will 
not, however, apply to spices , olo . 

(b ) Import of Homoeopathic mcdiolnes, anti 
cancer drugs, life -saving drugs and crude drugs 
permitted under Open General Licence , can be mado 
in small packing also . 


(17 ) The facility for Import of permissible spare 
under OGL ayallablo to Actual Users , can also be 
Availed of by shipping companies and Port Trust 
governed by the Port Trusts Act, 1963 for operation 
and majatenance of craft and equipmont. 

( 18 ) The facility for import of permissible spasex 
andor OGL Available to Actual Usors , can also be 
availed of by Hotels (One Star to Five Star) and 
Restaurants (independent of Hotel) approved by the 
Department of Tourism , Goveromont of India 
Now Dolhi, for operation and maintenance of the 
equipment used therein . 


32 . (a ) Al Actual Users at tho Ume of clearance 
of goods shall furdish to the customs authority a 
doolaration giving particulars of their Industrial 
Licence or Registration as an Actual User with the 
concerned authorities gamely , the number and date 
of the Industrial Liocnoc /Registration and the end 
product(s ) of manufacture, and affirming that 
(1) the Industrial Licence /Ronstration has not been 
cancelled or withdrawn or otherwise made in -opera 
dive and (ii) the items impusted under OGL are 
strictly in scrordance with the terms and conditions 
of their industrial Hoence /registration with the spon 
soring authority concerned as an industrial unit and 
thoir approved phased manufacturing programmc. 
In case no phasod manufacturing programme has been 
approved for them , they should say so in the declara 
tion . In cases , where separate registration number is 
not allotted by the sponsoring anthority concerned , 
the importers shall produce other cvidence to the 
satisfaction of the customs authorities that they are 
registered as industrial units and eligible to the import 
made . Actual Usors (Industrial) shall also furnish , 
At the time of clearance of goods, a certificd copy of 
phased manufacturing programme, if any , approved 
for them by the spons wing authority or other con 
ceined anthoplay 


(19) The facility for Import of permissible sparou 
ander OGL available ts Actual Users , can also be 
availed of by : 

() Cinematographic film studios which have 

been registered for at least three years 
under the local law applicable to Shops 

and Establishments ; and 
(11 ) Establishments holding a Hoence for at 

least three years under the local law relat 
ting to exhibition of cinematographic films 
to the publlo at authorised premises . 


(0 ) Actual Usors (Industrial) cogistered with 
DGTD / Toxtilo Commissioner, and subject to a 
phagod manufacturing programme, shall also furdish 
a list of components at the timo of cloarance through 
the customs, daly attested by DGTD / Totilo Commi 
ksionor or & doclaration of their own , where tho 
list furnished to tho DGTD / Textile Commissioner 
for attestation was oot recoived by the Actual User 
within the stipulated period of 30 days , as laid down 
In tho List Attestation Procodure in Chapter V of 
this Book 


( 20 ) Import of rar materials, components and 
consumablos, vido ſtorns (1 ) and (2 ) abovo , is allowod 
ander Open Gonoral Licence to Actual Users (In 
dustrial) lo accordance with the condition , laid 
dovn. Howover, in respect of certain items, out of 
these , import under OGL can also be made by others, 
apart from Actual Users . This la with a view to facill 
tatc off -tho -shelf supply of the roqulrod inputs for 
amall industries through stock pod sale . (Plesso se 
List 8 in this Appendix ) 


(c) All Industrial Units in large scalo sector shall 
submit to the DGTD , New Delhi or other sponsoring 
authorities concerned , and the Department of Electro 
nics, Now Delhi, as appropriate to the item , periodical 
returns , indicating the description and the value of 

raw materials , componcats and consumables 
Imported undor OGL . Industrial units in the small 
scale sector should send similar returns to the regional 
Icensiog authoritios concerned . These returns shall 
bo furnisbod as on 30th September , and 31st March 


(NTT 1 - 


11 


भारत का राजपा : मसाधारण 


167 


1111111 


APPENDIX 6 - Conid . 


of the licensing year. Each such roturn shall be fur 
nished within 15 days of the close of the period 
indicated . 


(d ) In the case of spares imported under OGL , 
the Actual Users shall furnish periodical returns 
As on 30th September, and 31st March of the 
licensing year to (i) sponsoring authorities concerned 
in the case of Industrial units in the large scale sector, 
and (ü ) regional import licensing authorities concerned , 
in the case of other Actual Users, indicating (a ) the 
total c .i.f. value of items imported and (b ) descrip 
tion of such of tho items imported of which the total 
c .l. f. valuo exceeds Rs, 2 lakhs . Each such return 
hall be furnished within 15 days of the close of the 
period indicated . 


(27 ) lo the case of medical instruments, etc ., spare 
parts of motor vehicles and agricultural tractors and 
scientific Instruments ctc ., vide items 20 , 22 24 , and 
23 the eligible importer shall , at the time of 
cloarance , be required to give a declaration to the 
customs authorities to the effect that the c .i. f. valuo 
of such goods already imported during the samo 
financial year does not exceed the respective maximum 
value limit laid down . 

(28 ) In the case of spare parts of motor vehicles 
and agricultural tractors vide item No . 24 above, the 
importer shall also produce to the customs authorities 
at the time of clearance the valid registration cortificato 
for the vehicle or tractor concerned , with evidence 
of up - to -date payment/ exemption of taxes under the 
Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 . 

(29) In the case of raw cashow -nuts, it shall be a 
condition that, the import contract shall also be regis 
tered by the importer with the Cashew Corporation 
of India within a period of 7 days of its execution , 

( 30 ) Export Houses and Trading Houses which 
may be importing raw cashewnuts against their REP / 
Additional lioonces under the Import policy in forco , 
for distribution to Actual Users (Processing Units ), 
shall register their import contract with the Cashew 
Corporation of India within a period of 7 days of 
in oncoutloo . 


(e) In the case of Capital Goods Imported under 
OGL, the Actual Users shall furnish periodical returns 
in the proforma proscribed in Appendix -- DI- K of tho 
Hand Book of Import - Export Procedures 1985 -88 to 
tho Diroctor of Statistics , Orice of the Chief Controller 
of Imports & Exports, Now Dolhi, giving the descrip 
tion of Capital Goods and their c.i.f. valuo as on 
30th September and 31st March of the licensing 
year. Each such return shall bo furnished within 
15 days of the close of the period indicated . 


(23) Actual Usen (Noo - ladustrial) shall at the 
time of clearance of the goods, furnish to the customs 
authorities, the original or a photostat copy of the 
(currently valid ) Registration Cortificate held by them 
under the Shops and Establishments Act, Cinemato 
graphic Aut or noorded local statuto . 


(31) Cashew Corporation of India is also eligiblo 
to import raw cashewnuts undor OGL for distribu 
ton to Actual Users (Processing Units ) in accordance 
with the policy in force in this regard . 


( 24 ) Byport Hogsor & Trading House are oot 
allovod to Import those Items of rav materials , com 
ponents and consumables which can do Imported 
apdor Open Goneral Licepoo by Actual Users 
( Ipdustrial ) only . vide Part 1 of Llot No. 8 Ip this 
Appendix in the case of components , bowever , a 
dlapensation has been allowed subject to crtain 
conditions and procoduro laid down lo Chapter XXI 
of this Book . 


(32 ) In the case of TPA Imports will be 
allowed under OGL by Actual Usors (Industrial) 
and other eligblo under the policy. only on the 
basis of Import contracto registerod alth tho 
Mti try of Petroleum ). Imports shall bo mado 
Only after the connected contracts have boon 
stamped by the Ministry of Potroloum , 
Nov Delhi as evidence of such registration . For this 
purpose , two copies of the contract should be lodged 
with the Department of Petroleum and they will 
rotum ono copy to the party duly stampod on cach 
pago for production to the customs at the timo of 
clearance of goods. At the time of rogistration of a 
qubsequont contract, tho oligible importer should 
also furnish a statement indicating the progress 
mado in import and utilisation / disposal of tho 
Importod material lo rospect of tho contracts carlier 
rogistered , for loformation /rocord of the registering 
Authority , 


(23) For Import of permissible spares under OGL, 
tho oligible Actual Users importer shall furnish a dec 
laration to the customs authority at the time of clear 
anco that the spares importod aro required for opera 
tion and maintonance of the machinery installed or in 
uso by him ag on 1st April of tho licensing year. 


(26 ) Registered Exporters of Gem and Jewellory 
will furnisb to the Customs authorities at the timo 
of clearance of goods, a doclaration giving particulars 
of their registration as an oxporter with the Gom and 
Jewellery Export Promotion Council and affirming 
that such registration has not been cancelled or with 
drawn or otherwiso made inoperative . A Co - opera 
tive Society of goldsmiths and artisans and Regional 
Training Institutions connected with Gomand 
Jewellery industry will , likoviso, furnish a declaration 
about its rogistration as a co - operative Socioty , etc . 


(33) In the case of soda ash , PVC roalns, 
wood pulp , caustic soda , and copper scrap ) 
copper mill scalo , vido entries in List 8 of this 
Appendix , all eligible importors , Actual Users 
(Industrial) and others shall be roquired to register 
their contracts with the DGTD (Import & 
Export Policy Cell ), Udyog Bhavan , Now Delhi. 
Import shall bo made only after the connected con 
tracts have been stamped by the DGTD as evidenco 


168 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I- Sec . 1 ] 


MOTO 


APPENDLX 


Cona, 


( 37). (1) Import of Woollen Rags/shoddy Wool/ 
synthetic rags will be allowed only when these are 
imported in completely pre -mutilated condition . 

(11) Definition of woollon rags is as follows : 


of such registration . For this purpose, two copies of 
the contract should be lodged with the DGTD and 
they will return one copy to the importor, duly stam 
ped on each page, for production to the customs at 
the time of clearanco of goods. At the timo of 
rogistration of a subsequent contract, the eligiblo 
importer should also furnish a statement indicating 
the progress made in import and utilisation disposal 
of tho imported material in respect of tho contracts 
carlior rogistered , for information / record of tho 
registering authority . 


( a ) New - waste woollon cloth whether woven 

or knitted which is left after a garment had 
boen cut out including genuine tailor cutting 
piece ends , discarded pattern bunches and 

sample bits . 
(0 ) old - Rags of woollon textile fabrics (in 

cluding knitted and crochetod fabrics) . 
which aro required for manufacture of shoddy 
yarn and may consist of articles of furnishing 
or clothing or other clothing so worn out, 
soiled or toro as to be beyond cleaning or 
repair . 


(HI) The above definition shall also apply mutats 
mutandis to synthotic rags. 


( 34) In the caso of Rifampicin , the concerned 
importers shall be required to register their contracts 
with the Joint Secretary and Development Commis 
sioner (Drugs), Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers, 
Office of the Development Commissioner (Drugs) , 
Shastri Bhawan , New Delhi- 110001. Import shall 
bo mado only after the connected contracts have been 
stamped by the Office of the Development Commis 
sioner (Drugs), as evidence of such registration. For 
this purpose two copies of the contract should be 
lodged with the Office of the Development Com 
missioner (Drugs) and they will return one copy to 
the importer, duly stamped on each page for produc 
tion to the Customs at the time of clearance of goods. 
At the timo of registration of a subsequent contract, 
the eligible importer should also furnish a statement 
indicating the progress made in import and utilisation 
of the imported material in respect of contracts 
earlier registered for information /record of the regis 
tering authority. 


(38 ) lo the case of all carbon steel and alloy 
steel items importable under Open General Licence , 
the eligible importers - Actual Users (Industrial) 
and others - shall be rcquired to register 
their import contracts with the Iron and Steel Contro 
lier , Calcutta or with any of his regional offices , within 
thirty days from the date of entering iato such 
contracts, or the date of shipment of goods, which 
ever is carlier. Imports shall be made only after the 
connected contracts have been stamped by the regis 
toring office of the Iron and Steel Controller AS 
cvidonce of such registration . For this purpose , two 
copies of the contract should be lodged with the 
registering office of the Iron and Steel Controller and 
they will return one copy to the importer duly stamped 
OD each page for production to the customs at the 
time of clearance of goods. At the time of registration 
of a subsequent contract, the eligible importer should 
also furnish a statement iodicating the progross , 
made io import and utilisation / disposal of the impor 
ted material in respect of the contracts earlier regis 
tered for information /record of the registering autho 


(35) In the case of Vitamin B .6 (Pyridoxin HCL / 
Pyridoxin base ) and intormcdiates of Pyridoxin , 
all eligiblo importers shall be required to first 
place an order to the extent of 33 % of their 
total requirements with M /S . Indian Drugs and 
Pharmacouticals Limited . Customs will allow 
clearanco of the balance requirement namely 67 % 
of the concerned importer on the basis of documen 
tary evidence of the firm order placed on M /s, I. D . P . L . 
or Letter of Credit oponed in their favour. 


rity 


(39) Importers vanting to have video rights of 
ducatiopal Alms covered by entry No . 45 above, 
should approach the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting, New Delhi and the R . B .). for prior 
pormission . 


( 36 ) In the c4so of pulses , all eligiblo loporten 
shall be required to register their contracts with the 
National Agricultural Cooperativo Marketing F - 
deration of India (NAFED ). Imports shall be made 
only after the connoctod contracts bavo beoo stampod 
by NAFED AS 4D ovidence of such registration . For 
this purposo , two copies of the contract should be 
lodged with tho NAFED ; thay will return 000 copy 
to the importer, duly stamped on each page ,. for 
production to the Customs at the time of clearance of 
goods. At the time of registration of a subsequent 
contract, the cligibic importor thall also furnish 4 
statement, fodicating tho progros made in Import 
and utilization /disposal of the imported material in 
respect of all the contracts carlier registered for 
Information /record of tho roglatorias authority . 


(40 ) In the case of brass /copper pipes and tubes 
imported 4s scrap, their size shall not exceed 15 cps 
in length unless they are imported 89 Borap in 
hydraulically pressod briquettes , 


(41) (4 ) In the case of medical gas cylinders 
the following conditions shall apply :-- 
(1) Imported medical gas cylinders shall be used 

only for medical purpose for compressing 
aod supplying medical gas, 


[ I - 


1] 


पारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


169 


mr 


mm 


UT 


I 


APPENDIX O - LAU , 


national Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Paung 
and Flora (CITES), Such imports would be permitted 
only on inspection by the Regional Deputy Director, 
Wild Life Preservation , Department of Environment, 


(11 ) Cylinders and valvat Otted thoreto to be 

inported must be of a type as approved by 
the Chief Controller of Explosive and 
accepted for usc under the Cat Cylinders . 

Rules , 1981, 
in Cylinders imported should not be used for 

Any gas service other than the medical gas 
for 4 period of 10 year from the date of 
Importation , 


( 44 ) In the caso of Energy saving /conscrva 
Jon equipment, including systems and dovicos vork 
11g on / used for Renewable and Altomato sources 
of energy , the importer shall furnish to the Depart 
Jont of Non -Conventional Energy Sources , Block No . 
14, Lodi Road , CGO Complex , New Delbi-110003 , 
the following information pertaining to the oquip 
mont imported , within 15 days of the clearance of 
goods from the Customs 


(iv) The importers shall obtalo Occessary per 

mission from the Chief Controller of Exp 
losivos as required under the Gas Cylinders 

Rules , 1981. 
( ) The conditions reforrod to in ( ii ) to (iv) abovo 
shall also apply in the case of Co , gas cylinders upto 
15 litres water capacity for fire extinguishers. 


(1) Description of the equipment imported . 
(II) Its c.i.f. value , 


( III ) Amountof Custoon, duty paid on the lin portail 

equipmeut. 
( lv) Country from which Imported . 


(42) In case of Polysilicon , Singlo crystal Silicon 
Logots /Bars/Rods other than metallurgical grade 
silicon , Silicon Wafers other than Diffused Wafors, 
Dices, and Chips, covered by OGL vide entry jo List 
8 of this Appendix , Actual Users ( Industrial) shall 
do roquired to rogister their import contract with the 
Department of Electronics , Lok Nayak Bhavan , 
New Delhi before opoving letter of cicdit . Imports 
shall be made only after the connected contracta 
have been stamped by the Department of Eloctronics 
18 an evidence of such registration . 


(45) The goods are shipped on through con 
signment basis of India on or beforo 31st, March 
of the licensing year, without any grace period , 
whatsoever. 


(43) In case of uomanufactorod Ivory, Importable 
ondor Opon Gonçral Licence , imports shall be allowod 
only under the regulations of Convention on Intor 


(46 ) Nothing in the Open General Licence shall 
affect the application to any goods , of any other 
prohibition of regulation affecting the import thereof, 
In force , at the timb when they are actuelly importar 


58 GI/ 85 — 12 . 


170 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


• (PART 1 - Sec . 11 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- -- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


7 


APPENDIX 6 - comed . 


LIST 1 


List of Machinery , Equlpment, Testbg apparatus, Tools and Implements , which will be glowod under Open Gederal Licence to 

Registered Exporters of Gem & Jewellery and Cooperative Socletlog of Goldsmiths & Artisans, 


1. All types of dichroscopes refractometers and accessories. 
2. All types of gaugos, etc., for measuring size of diamonds or proolous stones Jowellery . 
3 . All types of loupes and lonsos. 
4. All types of spectroscopo and accessories, 
3 . Automatic machines for making bracelets . 
6 . Automatic soldering machine with motor , 
7. Balancing machine . 
8 . Ball burnishing vibration (for polishing chains). 
9. Boart crushers. - 
10 . Bruting or girdling machino-single and double spindle , 
11. Bull s eye condensor with stand . 
12. Calibrating machine . 
13 . Carving machine. 
14 . Centrifugal/Vacuum casting machine , manual/automatlo . 
15. Ceres diamond probe or equivalent. 
16 . Chain hammering machine ( for decoration of chains). 
17 . Cleaver s Box with shell and load block , 
18. Colorimeter (for rough diamonds). 
19 . Colour Grador. 
20 . Colour mastor. 
21. Combined calibertating and bovaling or chamforing machine. 
22 . Combinod conveyor belt and wiro apnoaling furnace with controlled atmosphere . 
23 . Comploto automatic chain making machino . 
24 . Continuous casting machine of gem and Jowelloty . 
23 . Dops all types . 
26. Dial Micromotor. 
27. Diamond compound kit . 
28 . Diamond counting dacbinas . 
29. Diamondlito . 
30 . Dopping press or machino . 
31. Drilling machines . 
32 . Electroplating units for fash plating. 
33 . Faceting machine or faceter . 
34 . Forming machines. 
35. Gem Carving machines. 
36 . Gem mini lab . 
37. Gom print. 
38 . Gom Slicing machine . 
39 . Gem Testing lamps. 
40 . Gluing apparatus . 
41. Grinding machine. 
42 . Hydrogen welding machino with flame tomperature high frequency . 
43 . Jewellers microscopo- terco -zoom type and accessories . 
44 . Lapping machines . 
45 . Multiple stones bearers. 
46 . Multiple wire drawing machine with diamond dios. 
47. Pearl Drilling Machijos / Pearl processing machines . 
48. PointGrinding machine. 
49 , Polishing machines . 


[ MI- 


1] 


भारतका राजपक्ष : मसाधारण 


171 


TY - 

IT 


- 


TWTT MT - Yn 


TT 


- 


- 


- 


APPRNDIX 6 Conid . 


LA 1 - Concld . 


50 . Polishing Tangs . 
51. Powder Rollars . 
52 . Proclous balance electrically operated /band welghing balancos peighing in carats and grams (giving minimum reading capacity 

0. 05 gm or loss). 
53 . Proportion scopo/proportion meters . 
54 . Quartz lamps for testing precious stonos, 
55. Roundlam (Roundist machine). 
56. Saws, blado, laps, grinding whools, drossors , discs and other tools , diamond Impregnated or otherwise specially designed for machinca 

listod at S . No. 12 , 31, 33 , 34 , 35 , 38 , 41, 44 , 64 , 66 aod 72, 
57. Sawing Blades for diamond sawing machines. 
58 . Sawing Machinon. 
59 . Sawing Spindles , 
60 . Soalfa . 
61. Sdfo cutting latho. 
62 . Scouring machipo . 
63. Somi- automatic stono sotting machines . 
64 . Shaping maobioos . 
65. Slovos for diamonds, pearls or precious and semi- precious stoocs . 
66 . Slab and Trim Saw . . 
67. Stool pots , stool counter pirts , 
68. Strip runder. 
169 . Suction oquipment for diamond dust. 
70. The flluminator polariscopo. 
71. The " SONBIP " . 
72 . Tumbling machinos. 
73. Twoozers, 
74. Wire runder . 


172 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I- SBC . 1 ] 


CONTE 


V 


APPENDIX O - - Conid . 


List of Life Santa Equipaments allowed for laport 


dhow the Ope General Liceed 


# . 01. 0 , D -Sibrillatos foi inicial and extend upo 0 Fowken aod their accessories including Patient cable, Internal defibrilator 

paddles 45 cum and 35 om size but sxcluding ECO curdori , vardowodo , cardiac moalton and ECG popiton of any type, 
en Endotracheal tubes . 
3 . Sngstaken tubus - both adult and paediatto sizca. 
4 . Taracheostomy tubes both plastic and reta ) 
4 . Cardiac Catheters with guidewia . 
vj. Cardio -vascular guturos . 
4. Fogarty add omboloctomy cathoton . 
8 . Raspirators including ventimeters with acoduodes including paballkon , T codnoction , respiraton and veotimoter to paticaj 

connecting tubes and connections . 
4 . Implantablo cardiac pacomakor with acoonorle . 
10 . Wearable or portable solf contained breathing roiucdtation oquipment for wo in area with toxic epd dangerous or axploulva 

gasca. 
11 . Portabic latermittent positivo presure breathlag apparatus vitt cocitodos / compreased alr breatbing apparatus sets and otdi ? 

breathing protection equipment usod by the fire service . 
12. Hydrocepbalus sbunte . 
13 . Vascular grafts , 
14. Heart-valve prosthesis including valvo FrAM 
19 . Portable Hacmo-dialyser includios disposable or kin Haemodialysor. 
16 . Homafiltrrtion Instrumont/Haomodialysors and accessorios/ spare thoreof. 
17. Small portable pumps for glelag stov Iplanton of - o dru 
18 . Ventilator wood witb anaesthoela apparet 
19 . Pumotloator . 
20 . Hoart lung macbine and açoessories Including Y od straight connections, bext orobangor , arterial and venous reservoks Alters 

and oxtra carporcal dlroulation onthotort . 
21. Intravenous canulao and tubing (for long tortu wo). 
22 . Clips for aocurysms and clipa applying foroops to nourosurgery , 
23 . Instruments and Implants including sell-ourlog horyllo Bono Coment for soplacomiat ad bondtag of Nips Iner and other Joints 

for severoly cripplod aod bandicapped 
24 . Blood gas analyser and Accesorla * 
23. Double / Triplo/ Quadruplicato blond plastic bine. 
26 . Blood ooll soparaton . 
21. Cardiovascular apacial Instrumontu sante ! 

(I) Elootrical or gras operated sternal cuttors. 
(II) High Prossure stop cocks and connocton for promure roadlag . 
(II) Vascular Tissue forcep . 
( tv ) Vascular Solssons straight or angloj. 
(v ) Vascular Bull - dog Clampy . 
( v ) Vascular Clamp , 
(VII) Vascular Noodle Holdory. 
(vill ) Coronary Perfusion Cannulae . 
28 . Jotra - Arterial Catheters ao1 uldovired for selectivo carebal anglo - mpby, plan anglo - npby ws. 
29 . Omayyn Ysorvoirs for Intnt -rontrolar Investigatiout therapy . 
30 . Latre -cardiac patobo . 
31. Suction Cathotert . 
32. Plastic Disposablo 3- vny Coumotore. 
33. Tublog to record preuare . 
34. Nobolisert . 
34. Humidioon . 


(NTTI 


TUIT FT TOVE : TATOTTUT 


173 


* 


** 


* 


* 


VRYWMW 


nin 


APIENDIX 4 , 6 mld . 
Alat 1. 

m oncld 


86. Oxygeator and acourier secs - 

(O) Fiten . 
( ) Arterial Venous Tablag. 
( IH ) Coronary Capulae. 

(fr ) Sllastic tube for Dicrostry . 
37 . Bodoscopic equipment of all types (Cystoscope , Laproscope ekt. 
38 . Ostomy products (appliances ) for managing colostomy, bloostomy, Orcierostomy, iloal condutt oroatomy stoma Cases suc # A # 

bags , belts , adhesives seals or rolls adhesivo remover, sklo berrien micropore surgical tape , bag closing clamps, Karaya 
scals paste or powder, Irrigation sets , plastic or rubbor face plates , langes , rule or female urinary incontinency sets , kin 

gels, in parts or Beta . 
39 . Marlex Mead 
40 . Pacemakerwren 
41 . Patient Cable for proemsier. 
42. Fibrooptic ondorcop ( Thoreclo and Badroin dut Omaitoori* * 

r olet CBA ) T wo, 10x # , . . . Ecope of Wifferent size 
43 . Steridrapo 
44 . Castrators 
45 . The following items required by the spinki patients and other toporles of payuicaiiy tadcapo mapie .com 
(1) Folding wheel chairs with detachable an and footrans - - Special Igbi ulosl chaire for casy kapiling and shurie man 

--- Motorised wheel chain . 

- - -Special purpose for stairs climbing standing for tetra pioglu sad paraplegio 0148. 
(2 ) kacontinence alds liko pon- allergia slllicron -MedicalAdhesive uprave , 

button adjuster for condom urianis. 

--- Urioai leg bags with valves for sy emptying 
(3 ) Alda for disabicd nike folding walking franes . 
(4) Alds to extend reach w pick up email itona ( with small maynot pick ap ) 
(3) Spoctalised ixtures for orthopaedic and spastic, totraplegica fos masovering and providing dexterity to fingers and # 8i, 
(6 ) Turning beds for provention of preasure sorte , 

(7) Bmulsion cushions for tetraploglo aad wakin ? panpiaglo to avoid grmule COE 
46 . Disposablc Monitoring Electrodes to use with the mooiioring wujacbine for diagnosing heart disease . 
47 . Patientcable & patient leads to use for diagnosing heart disease , 
48 . Portablo intermittent traction machines , 
19. Artificial electronic larynx Instrumenta . 


174 


THEGAZETTF OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PARTISBC. 1) 


APPENDIXD 


OMIC 


LIST 3 


Lbst of Finished aru preparati ns, life saving and anti-cancer drays, import of which will be allowed under Open General Lice 


. 


1 . Actinomycin -D Infection 
2 . Aminocaproic Acid Injection . 
3. Aminopterine Sodium Injectioc . 

Amiphenazole Infection . 
Ampbotericin . B Inlet 11 

Aatlharmophylllo Globulin fiš ty . 
ohny Anti- Haemcphilic fac or Cons intrats i vui ** ). 
8 Aprotinin Injection . 
9 . Azathioprine tablets am I inlocts to 
het bemer ac. Injich II 
11. Bethancchol Chloride Tables 
12 . Bleoinylu injectior 
13 . Busulphan Tablets 
14 . Calcium Discodiam Bdeta Injection 
15 . Caniac Distemper Vaccine 
16 . Carbenicillio Sud urn Itiné 
17 CCNU (Lomustine 
18 . Cholestyramide for yra suspensjon 
19. Chlorambucil tablets . 
20 . Chorionic Ganadotrophin ampoulca . 
21 . Colistin Sulphate Injection and Colistin Sulphomcthate Sodium Injection , 
22. Conjugated Estrogen - Injection of 
23. Corticotrophin (ACTH ) Injection 
24 . Cytarabine Hydrochloride injeci va 
25. Daunorubibin Hydrochloride loection 
26 . Desferrioxamine Injection 
27 . Diagnostic agents , the following 
( A ) Biological Diagnostic Agents , namely in 

( 1 ) A , glutinable Suspensions. 
(2 ) Agglutinatiog Sere excluding he following 1 

- (1) Anti A Sera 
( 11 ) Ant B Sera 

( it ) And D (Rbo) Sera . 
(3) Costridium Diagnostic Sera 
(4) Diagousik Regeats for * coercui di# cases, namely i 

( ) Frots Anligea 
( 1) Kahn Aotiger . 

(H ) Wassermann Antigos 
(5 ) Horse Scrum 
6 ) Species Precipitating Sera . 
(7) Sureptococous grouping Son 
(0 ) Viral Antiged aad Scra . 
O ) The followiay agents . [1.2010 ! 

(1 ) Aolis rapidlynit O 
( it ) Bovioc A ! 
(1 ) Conil v 
( ir ) m unculcuscut cu o Reagcoin . 

* Kocb oid Tuburculio . 
(17 ) caget fr Cawni s (c * * 
(v ) Streptolysio 


[YTT I 


1) 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


175 


he 


WEWE 


W 
WOLI 


LEMME 


APPENDIX 6 - Conid , 


List 


Contd . 


(B ) X Ray Diagnostic Agents, namely me 

(1) Acetrizok Acid Injection . 
(2 ) Calcium Ipodate Sachets . 
(3 ) Diodone Injection . 
(4) Ethyl Iodophenylundecylate Injections. 
- ( ) Injection of Sodium and Megiumino Salts of lodamide. 

lodipamide Methylglucamine Infections. 
(7 ) Iodoxyl Injections. 
( 8 ) Meglomido lotbalamate Injecdon 

(9 ) Pbenobutiodii tableta . 
(10 ) Propyliodonc Injection 
(11 ) Sodium Iothalamate Injections 
(12) Sodium Ipodate Capsules. 
28 . Dimercaprol (BAL ) Injection . 
29. DHL Vaccido (Distomber , Hepatitis, Leptospirosis Vaccine) 
30 . Doxyrubicin Hydrochloride Injection . 
31. Edrophonium Chloride Injection. 
32 . Fluorouracil Injection . 
33. Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH ) aod Lutipising Hormone (LH ) Injoction . 
34 . Gas gangrene anti-toxin Injection . 
35. Glucagon Injection . 
36 . Highly purified neutral insulin Injection ( Porcine Insulin ). 
37. Highly purified Insulin zinc suspension injection (Porcine Insulin ), 
38 . Highly purified neutral insulio Injection (Bovine Insulin ). . 
39. Highly purified insulin zinc suspension injection (Bovine Insulin ). 
40 . Highly purified Isophane insulin injection ( Bovine Insulin ). 
41. Histamine Injections . 
42 . Human Thrombia . 
43 . Hydroxyurea preparations. 
44 . Isoproterenolbydrochloride Injections . 
45 . Iso metamidium chloride. 
46. L -Asparaginase Injection . 
47 . Loucoverinc Calcium Injection . 
48 . Levarterenol Bitartrate Injection 
49 . Levadopa with carbidope Tablets . 
50 . Llncomycin Hydrochloride Injection . 
51 . Manpopustine Hydrochloride - Injections and tabiota or. 
52. Measles vaccino S . Stralo with dilucot 
53 . Measles, mumps and lubells virus vaccine, five viib dilucut, 
54 . Melphalan Injection and tablets . 
55 . Mercaptopurie , tablets 
56 Meterinirol Tart te lojections . 
57. Motricillla (S .xdium Salt) Lojection 
58 . Motkotroxate tablod sad lajections 
$ 9 . Melkory Horaino is botum . 


176 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I- Sec . 1) 


smeta 


_ 

W 
vivi 


de 


APPENDIX 0 - CURIA 


Lot 3 - 


oncid . 


60 . Motriza wide Vidlwith # otoni 
61. Mitomycin C Injection . 
62 . Mustiae Hydrochloride suppout 
63. Pavulon ( Pancuronium Bremicia ; 
64 . Pepicillinase injection . 
65 D . Penicillamiar hydroubione CAWU 
66. Pilcarpine eye drops. 
67 Polonysilds Vacl * (Palusi 
68 Pollomyiltir 114 @ !! ! 
69 . Poly alix du , 
70 . Pratido dire che la . - * * 
71. Protanuger du ****** * * * , 
72 . Procarbazine aydrochloride Capsules, 
73. Quinidine gluconate intramuous injecutone . 
74 . Racelaic Phenyiamloo Nitrogen Mustard Hydrochloride Injection and tablets of 
95 . Serum Gonadotrophta ampouks. 
76 . Streptokinase -Streptodorbase Tablets and Injccucar, 
77. Succinylcholine Chloride Injection 
78 . Suxothonium Bromide -- inipoulet ol. 
79 . Tadioxifen citrate tablois ( Apt -chacor orugal. 
80 . l estolactone pieparatione. 
81 . Thermiserine (Cyluserinc), Proaicid (Prothionamide) and Reganlcid (Ethionamide) . . .me 
82. Tubocu urine Chloride injcctobe. 
83 . Thio - Tepa injections, 
84 . Thromobokinase with Calcium - Tablets of 
85. Tretamine Tablets and Injection , 
86. Trimetaphan Camsyiata Iniectioua 
87 . Vasoprensin Lajectiops. 
88 . Vincriitine Sulphate Injection . 
89 . Vinblastine Sulphate Injection , 
90 . Veterinary life saving drugs ,the folostor - 


(0) Combined vaccino against duuriper hepatitix , loptosiproels and rubiu . 
(W ) Homologous standarded altiservaagaasi Dlatemper and Hepatids. 
( H1 ) Coumaphos Wetabio Powder / Suspeorioa , 


( lv) Suramin Powder . 
(w) Penbendazole BolusSuspenaten , Poedci . 
( 1) Oxyciozanlde tiquki. 
( # ) Inactivatesi Rice Vacolo ( p " perod from Coligre of Robles viru oa human disciold calls ). 


91 . Naganol(municolbungoyi- k-bérhyi bodroya). 
92 . Diagonu * Dijek 
93. NI-AUBYLO110 ## 3 P. 
94 . Uankt12 & * 1 1 int * ** ** 
94 . F : 011 ). 1 * R $ 13 * * . 1 . 
36 Sodium A muhumal.dio lachen 


[ 971 I. 


1) 


भारत का राजपन्न : असाधारण 


177 


FULL 

mm 


WS 


wrth 


VT 


L 


AU PENDIX Okonid . 


LIST 4 
Ulot of Itaas allowed for import as Crudo drugs wder O .G . L . 
Ayurvedic /Unadi asinc of the crude druge 10 clusive of parts Scientific and/or English name of the drag 


HARGwww 


- - 


W 


Si 


- 


T 


A . PLANT ORIGIN DRUGS 
t . Vangalochan, Tabsheer (Mamns ) 


2. Gaozeban ( leaves , iowers) 
* Swanjan ( Corams) 

Bus , Mur Makki (Goro rexio , 

Saqmonia (Resin ) 
4 . Yashdmedhu , Muledi ( 100** * 
5. Hauber, Abdal (Bergies ) 
# Todri ( Seeds ) 
9. Salab Misri ( Tubere ) Burlar 
10 . Shaqaqui Misri (Root) 
11 . Kababchini ( Fruits ) 
12 . Mastagi Roomi (Gum -Ichin ) 
13 . Maya Phaja , Mazł (Galla ; 
14 . Chobchini (Root) 
13. Unnab (Fruits ) 
10. Aqarqarha (Roof) 
11. Bahman Safaid (Roon) & Surkh (Red & White #7 ) . 
18. DarronajAgrabi (Root) 
19. Hing (Gum -rcsia ) 
20 . Usara Revand ( Bxtract) Rovandchini (R004) 
21. Ustokhuddus ( Plani) 
22. Habb -ul- Gbar ( Berride ) 
23. Habb - ul-Ad (Berries ) 
24 . Od- -Saleeb (R001) 
29 . Blsfayel (Root Rhizome) 
* & . Ushbab Maghribi (Root 


Bambusa Bambos Druce Syn . B . Arundiraced wild . 

Bamboo Manna . 
Borago officinalis Linn . 
Colchicum luseum Baker Colchicum 
Commiphora myrrha (Nees ) Engi. Myrrh . 
Convolvualus, seammonia Linn Scamnany . 
Glycyrrhiza glabra Linn Liçoike 
I waniperus communi Lap Ju111921 Kerrick , 
Mathiola toscana R . B 
Orchis laxiflora Lam . Salep . 
Pastinaca secacul Linn . Wild Parship , Socacul. 
Piper, cubeba Lido . I. Cubeb . 
Pistcia lentiscus Linn . Mastich . 
Quercus infectoria Oly. Oak . 
Smilax chino Linn China Root. 
Zlayphus sativa Gaertn Jujube . 
Anacyclus porothrum Do. Poflitery. 
Contaurea bohen Lan. 
Doronicum pardaftanches Linn Roman Leopard s Bane . 
Fårute Footida Regel Assafoetida . 
Rheum emodio Wall Rbeum , Rhubarb . 
Lavandula stoechas Linn, French Lavander. 
Paurus nobilis Lion , Laurd . 
Myrtus communis Linn . Myrtle . 
Pavonia officinalis Lion . Pacoala ->06. 
Polypodium vulgare Lian Polipody 
Smilax artstole-chlaefollo Miner 
Maxcian Sarsaparilla . 
Albagi psoud-alhagi (Bieb ) Desy Sya . A . Camelorum fisck . 
Berberis vulgaris Lino Borbery . 
Commiphora opobalsamum (Linn .) Bag ! 
Halsam Tree . 
Fraxtons oruu Lis . 


29. Turanja been (Manne) 
28 . Zacishak (Fruit ) 
29 . Balsan (Habb Soeda, Raoghe n -oil ) 


Doremo ammorlocum D -DOK . Ammoalacum , 


Gourlono olivieri Griseb Gendsa . 


30 . Sheer Khlskat (Manga ) 
31. Ushaq (Olo - gon - rem! 
32 . Gals-Ghafs (Flower ) 
3 ). Habb -al-Mahlab. (Pruin Borde) 
14. Paranj Maulk (Pruits, londo) 
* * Badiya . Kami ( Proin 
30 Biranja ! 


Prema mohaté Llan . Mabalab Tros . 
Dracucophalum Soldirica Llan 
Ilielum warum look 
# chillea miluraltar lime Mi 0 . 
O « ipdisfumat verydor Will, 


178 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART | -- Sec . 1] 


— 


— 


- 


AIPENDIX ( - - ( wmid , 

+ Concta , 


- - 


- 


D 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


+ 


- 


- 


LLY 


3 

- - - - - - - - - - 
38 . Turinus Sari 

( upinus ulbus Linu Whil lupin , 
39 . Gulnar Parsi ( Flower ) 

Punicu Granatum Linn PomGranate . 
40 . Satar Fais (Plant) 

Zatarla multiflora Bois 
41 . Zaitun ( Tel- oll ) 

Olea europoco Linn . Oliva 
42 , Kabruba (Resin lo fossil form ) 

Plous gucciutore Gopp it Ambet (Fossilised ) 
43 , Damm -ul- Akhwald ( roslnous exudate ) 

Pruecond cinnabori Balf 1. Dragon s Blood Plati. 
14 . Naryal Daryaeo 

Jadrlcoa godiviva Perry. Syn , L . Seychellarum Ick 
15. Gul-e - Pisto (Flower ) 

Pistacia rerui Liun Pistachio plaut, 
46. Loban (Balsamic resin , Bonzolo ) 

Styrar benzoin Dryand Olibanuni or Bcozoin Tree 
47. Darchini (Back ) 

Cinnamonum zoylantcwn Blume Ciodamon Bark , 
48 . Lavady , Laung (Flower bud ) 

Syzygium Aromaticuin (Linn .) Merr. & L . M . Porry . 

Cover 
19. Zeera Siyah (Frut ) Krishan Jireh 

Carum coryl Lino Black Craway , Black Cumio . 
$ 0 , Anisoun (Fruit) 

Pinzoinulla (uusun Linn Ani fruits , 
31. Sarjarsani (Gum -teklo ) 

Vurorto indica Llon. 
52. Rauanjot (Rhizome) 

Onosino echioides LIDA. 
93 . Zoofa ( Plant) 

Hyssopus officinail Lin 
34. Shaqiqoou (Mushiyonu 

Hyssop 

Polyrorou! offelaalis üles kuiole Mustrumu 
55. Long Pepper 

Piper Longum Linn . 
B . Moural origin Drogri 
1 . Shilajlı 

Black Altuman , Mineral Pitch Blumen 
2 . Haori -Armani 

Bole Amoniac , Armenian Bulo. 
3 . Saindhava Numak , Namak Labort. 

Rusk Salt , Black Salt 
4 . Hajr -ul- Yahud , 

Fossil Enorinate. 
$. Zabar Mobra 

Sorpentino. 
6 . Yuqout ( Chovra ) 

Ruby. 
Parwala , Munga , Shaakb -e-Marjan , Bekbe Marjan , Coral ( Colalium rubrum ). 

Byssad . 
8 . Mukta , Mou 

Pernah 
9. Sang Yashab 

JADO . 
10 . Hlagul, Shanych 

( 300 bar 
11 . GI-e-Makhtoon . 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
NOTES ( ~ - (1 ) If any of tho itoms appearlog in this list also appear in Appendix 3 Part Ait Import will not be allowed 

under OGL. 
( ul ) import of Jade, Pearls and Corals only a Powder for and of Oun -jowollery quality alone will bo allowed 


Clay 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


91- T11 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


179 


SW - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 


fonu 


L181 


List of Sutures and Noodles for surdal purposeu allowed under OGL vida item 20 (b ) in this Appendix . 


1. Doron Polyglycolic acld suture Nos . 0. 2/0 3/0 0/0, 5/0, 6 /0 on cutting noodle , also available without noudlo and on round 

bodiod deadlo . 


SurgicalGutinild chromio (marked Opthalauto )No uplo 6 /0 ; length 18 on 3/8 clrcle reverse cutting nodio . 


of Ethilon ralcro -polot spatula 5 mm noodle 9 No . w U / 21 , 

Micropolotspatula 6 double Doodle 10 No, w 1719 . 


Proleno Micro point spatula 6 om double noello 9. NO. w 1710 . 


Micro futuro wtb micro taper point Nylon /Polyester Reference. 
DM 

04917 12/0 OD 0 .05 mm 3 /8 circio . 
OM 200 04920 

0 ,07minoedlo . 


201 


Nylon /Polyster Reforcoco 

RM 212 02294 
RM 222 02296 
(DM ) 212 02304 


10 / 14 
10 /0 00 
10 /0 00 


0100m 1/ 2 circlo 
0 . 14mm 1/ 2 circle 
0 . 140m3/ 8 circle noodlo . 


Nylon /Polyster Roforonco 

GM 201 06042 
GM 202 06040 

6039 


11/0 op 
11/0 on 

10 /0 


0 .05mm 
0.07 mm 


Straight noculo 


& Silcon robbor stripa for ratlonel dotachment 
1) 1570 /40 

3 . 5mmx0.75 
D 1370 / 41 

2. 0mm 0 . 75mte 
D 1570 /42 

. 0mmx1, 250 


180 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - SEC . 1 ] 


LAVN yen 


APPENDIX Olid , 


LIST 


List of Dental Equipment, Dental Instramonto a Applisech allowed for import onder Open Camera Lice " 

DINTAL EQUIPMENT 


34 . Ultrasonic laseren. 
39 . Ultrasonic orthodontic fit and root canal kit . 
36. Ultrasonic # calor of all typei. 
37 . Vacuum Investing equipment for dental castings. 
38. Vibratures for dental 1:48 . 
39 . Spot welders for dental rue saith auxiliary fasciou ontlet 

(3 ) Anacing jack 


++ 


+ 


klug - 1 ! 


LLT OP *NSTRUMENIS POE PANTAL USB 


40 Air Turbig sagle adopton . 

(2 to 3 holo ) Border 

( 4 to 2 hose) 
4 . A. iu Lite Cut AI , 

(a ) Plastic chuci . . 
O Qu¢teix noial chacko - - Complett 

06 .01andsid 
Futura ocun 
Miniata 
Standard . 


---- 


- 


- 


- 


-- 


1 . Alr Motor/ Turbinc Hand place and Control Box with 

Foot Control. 
2 . Atr Rotor / Turbine complete with or without Air Con . 

pressor . 
3 . Body contoured self -adjusting clegi lually operatod dental 

cbair. 
4 . Cassettes for X -ray Film , 
3 . Crgosurgery equipnsor 
6 . Dental Engioe . 

(a ) for laborator; 

( ) for chalrside clinical work on pat might 
9. Dental Furnaces and casting machinei. 
8 . DentalOperating Lights & fibre Optik Lighii . 
9 . Dental unit with ali attachmenta fixed to id . 
10 . Electric casting furnace and accessories for dentalcasting, 
11. Electro -surgery units . 
12 . Equipment for chronic cotxit eorú . 
13. Evacuator uoft. 
14 . Fibre optic light equipment with stucwane for scala ! 

work . 
19. Flexible cable anm ) . 
16 . Gold foil consensing instrumeat . 
19 . High speed mobile suction apparaius . 
18 . Hot air sterilizer , 
19 . Hydrocolloid conditioners equippucat or bcating ublt. 
20. Model surveyor. 
21 . Model Trimmers 
22. Moto - Tool with or wtbop : morali per Tener tot 

drung) 
23 . Orthodontic blow pipe. 
24 . Orthodontic trimmers , 
25 . Orthodontic pollsher with auxiliary function outlet.. 

(a ) Annealing jack . 
(6 ) Auxilliary cables 
(C) Heat - treat lable . 

(d ) Plug visa 
26. Prebeating porcelata foradcu . 
29. Poroclain furnal . 
28 . Porcelala * acuam paup 
29. Pup lain . 
30 . Send blasting equipment for Denim * * 
31 Thrren 1.3154468* * * pris # 2 


2. AI TURHNE HEAD / CARTRIDGES 
( a) Bordou turbines 

Kegular cartridge 
(a ) Hordea turblaar .. SUCncer cartrid 
(c ) Quiet air furbis 

Mauladung 


43 . Amalgamaton . 
44. malymitor caçsalon wad peste 
45 . Amalgam camon 

( a ) Double opd - Rogziar oi large . 

(6 ) Singls e14 -- Fogular or large. 
46. Amalgam contuosob. 
* 7. Bur blocks for doljim , burs. 
48 Cartridge Syringe needles Disposable and starte 

19 ) Dental lojo . 

(5 ) Disporah !c #sagis 
49 . Curiag soli unds torie 

(11) Capdet komme 


19 Dentare lags with comp. 
(d ) Bioctrolomaer 


33. Utensonica 


lgo 


* 18. 


[ 971- - 


1] 


भारमका राजपा : भसाधारण 


181 


u - Rum 


= 


= 


= 


= 


- 


= 


= 


= 


- 


- 


= 


APPENDIX 0 - Conid 


LU 
du . Dental Abroasive polishing and Animhing Instrumeot 

( A Conipu site Ant- hing kit F / G . 
thi coipoilt wind kl C / A . 
( c) Crld polixblog kit H /P . 
( d ) Silicone brownie cups CIA . 
( ) Silicone bro vale mm po ni OIA 
(S ) gillicone browole cups F /G . 
(8 ) Silgono brownie mini pts . F /6 , 
th ) Silicone groeple rain pts. C / A . 
(1) Slicone Greenle cupa C / A , 

( ) Silicone groenlo mini pts . P / C 
$ 1 , Dental angsthotio syrlogo 
52. Dental burs of all varletles of various shapes and sizou , 

(a ) Carbido 
(6 ) Diamond 
( c) Stool 


Board 

) Spatolas , impression parte 
W spolujas, mastur 
( m ) Spatulaa , PAY 
(n ) Storillzet fazoni 
(0 ) Tape, iostrument Idontlication , 

( ) Towel clamps and napkin holders 
46 . Developiog tarke for dental X -ray ( Automatic & Ordinary ) 
37 . Endodontic Instruments ( Root Canal Instruments ) Bro 

ches , reamers and Ales, Allers /widonen und pluggera , 
58 . Eogines , handpieces and bụn 

( a ) Carbide bure 
(b ) Engino balto . 
(c ) Enginc bonch models . 
(d ) Handplocos dorlot typo. 
(6 ) Laboun . 

Model trimmer , 
8 ) Modal trimmer abrasivo disos . 
(h ) Model trimmor whools. 
1 ) Moto ilox model. 
(1 ) Moto toolmodel 
(k ) Rhoostate footmodela. 
( 1 ) Sodimont tray. 
(m ) Speed control foot operated 
(n ) Speed control table model. 
(0 ) Storlab handploce 

( p ) Stoel bun . 
54 . Fxplorer sborponor 
FO , Film holden - Dental X -Ray Film Holders . 

( ) Angulatory, Adult and child , 
(6 ) Blooctag angle lostrument ylth and without wito winy . 
(c ) Blto blooks. 
(d ) Illuminaton - - slimline - dal or vell mount 


33 . Dental Handplooos foc 

(a ) Alr motor . 
(6 ) Air turbine. 
( c ) Dailing oogloot (clinical and laboratory ) for Gitto 

paokiog and copdonnaton purposes . 
(d ) Micromotor. 


54. Oral Au gICH , 

( 0 ) Aune films , 
(1 ) Burnisher. 
( c) Carvors . 
( d ) Composite Allog Instrumento , 
6 ) Condonsors 

Crown remover , 
( ) Curettes , 
(1 ) Cutting cavity prop . 
( ) Elevatory -- porlistat , 
U ) Excavator 
(k ) Forceps. 

Homostato . 
( m ) Mallets , 
(n ) Mouth glass. 
(o ) Noodle holders, 
( ) Packing ingtruncni. 
( 9 ) Plastic Alliag 
(1 ) Puen: -ofice and laboratory 


01. Furnaces for dontal or 


62. Olau dippon dlah products for dootal unt , 


13 . Kalyou and spatulan. 
( a ) Blado plastor 
(6 ) Groen Uno plastor knive 

(0 ) Surgeons blades . 
, (d ) Surgloal handlo . 


64 . Laboratory butner and torche . 


09, Lathes, schucks and accomoda for dental uso 


5 Oral Surgical Consorvadivo Instrumeats 1 

(a ) Plier , copper band romovar . 
(6 ) Pliers cotton and froudag. 
(c ) Pllager, amalgan 
( d ) Probos . 
(6 ) Ronguen 

) Root tip picks. 
( ) Soalets , 
( h ) Sciasors collar and OTOFA , 
( 1) Scissors , grum . 

Snatulas, vegyept. 


{a ) Attachments for auto choot . 
(6 ) Auto chuck handlor. 
(c) Bonch top type -- Porth Ymc 

1 ) Chooks 
(0 ) Gypsou dlapdomu . 
) Jacobu type chuck 

Lahlotho 
(A ) Prouston chuoka 
) Splash guardo 

Splash hoort . 


182 
-- = = - = - 


(PART I - Sec. 1) 


- - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
- - - - - - - - - - - , G = " - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - 

APPENDIX 0 Contd . . 


- - = 


- 


* 


S 


I S 


Llot 6 - Donid . 


6K , Mandrels. 


67. Matrix Instruments and materials - - of all typing I 

(a ) Bande, 
(0 ) Strips 


14 . Prosthote materials 

( 9 ) Glang lys 
( 6 ) Linipual and palawi hark , 
(c ) Performed bars and claspx 
(d ) Tray inserts for cabinet, 
(e ) Tumbler holders, 


68 . Mixers 1 

(a) Alginate mixer . 
(b ) Mechanical mixer . 
(0 ) Power mixers . 
( d ) Vacuum investiog mnaohlao. 

(6 ) Vacuum Investor and power molxo , 
69 . Mouth Mirron and Mirror Handles -- of all type for 

dental wsc . 


Yo , Orthodontic Tostruments 1 

(0 ) Acrylizers . 
(6 ) Arch fomer. 
(c ) Bow dovlder. 
(d ) Bracket holder , 
(o ) Cephalometric tracing poncli . 
( Direct bonding adhesivo remover . 


75 . Root canal anobor ping and pio retontion kits . 
76 . Rubber dam supplies 1 

(a ) Hygenic ready cut dam . 
( b ) Hygenic rubber dan rolls . 
( c ) Rubber dam clampa . 
(d ) Rubber dam clamp forceps. 
(d ) Rubber dam frames and holders 
( 1 ) Rubbor dam puoch . 

( 3 ) Rubbor dam cupkins, 
17. Saliva Bjecton . 
78 . Bulbs for dontal lights (inclu Jing übre Optik Lights 

79 . Tonguo depreason . 
* 80 . Trays- - Impression trays. 
81. Tray Impression Accuenorien 

(a ) Cabli tray. 
(6 ) Instrument trays . 
(c ) Tray adhesiva . 
(d ) Trays cablnot, lostrument and unli , 
( d ) Tray clear on , 

Tray racka. 
(8 ) Tray rolosso agents 

(h ) Unit trayı. 
82. Bito -Wlog Loops and Tabe foc Dontal X - Ran . 
83. Doveloper and Fixor 
84. Plim Dlsponsor 
83 . Filo . Hangoms 


91 . Orthodontic Instrumopt 1 

(a ) Glags boat sterilizers . 
(b ) Hand scalers and Instruments for periodontal treatment 

Including ginglyoctomy knives. 
(c) Hand setter - director - adaptor- - pusher. 
(d ) Impression trays -- all sizes . 
(c ) Marking filos. 
( ) Mochanical tooth separators , 
(8 ) Model formar - - metal/rubber baso . 
(h ) Orthodontlo and pododontic pliere 
( 1 ) Sclisons 
0 ) Stross and tension paogo . 
( k ) Twoszors . 
( 1 ) Typodont. 
(m ) Roamers , broaches , files , Allors and excavator, for roor 

cadal treatment for both hand 1130 and with rodprocal 

action handpiecos , 
(n ) Pips for amalgam restoration 
(0 ) Chrome cobalt alloy dootal Implants . 

) Soomless copper banda . 
10 ) Handcuttlog Instrument for cavity such as chisals of 

various type , batcbato , boes files, glaglyal marginal 
trimmon . 


LIST OF DENTAL MATERIALS 


72 . Plastor boppis - Small modinu , large, 


73 . Pliers and Scissors i 


86 . Abrasives and Polishing Materialer 

U ) Abrasalve strips . 
(i ) Arnllustre polisb . 
( IH ) Acrylic baso plata whole. 
( Iv ) Arbor bunds. 

(v ) Buffa . 
(11 ) Burlov diochdry foll , 
(off ) Coramic polata , 
( vin ) Cutting dia , 
(1 ) Cuttio Unon . 
(x ) Diamond coated super flerllom dlno . 
(x / ) Disc.-- plo bolo ocoter. 
(xff) Finlsdag stripe 
# M ) Hand separator, 
( xl ) Hoaticoo wbools -- orlading 
( 37 ) Intor prox whool.. 


(0 ) Baud remover 
( b ) Crown and collat 
It ! Diagonal wire cutters 
( 11 Plaster nipper 

(6 ) Plato hear. 
. Uplyorsal ucimor, 
( Wire cnthos. 


[ATTI. 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


· 183 


- 


LL LLLS 


WWW. She 


AVE 


APPENDLX 6 - Conid . 


Llat 


Contd . 


(XV1) Justi milling polishing Cream , 
(xvil) Knife edge rubber whecis . 
( xvill) Metal lightning , 
(xix ) NM slims. 

(XX) Point mandrel, 
( xxl) Polishing brushes. 
(xxil) Rubberised abrasives , 
(xxill) Ruby carvers . 
(xxiv ) Separating discs . 
( XXV) Slitter cut off wbeels. 
(xxyl) Tooth grinding wheels 
(xxvii) Touch -ups. 
(xxviti ) Tripoli.. 
(xxix ) Ultra thin discs . 

(xxx) Ziroon trimmers . 
87 . Acrylics - Regular, Standard , Powder, Liquid . 
88 . Acrylics and plastics for dental use . 
89. Air turbino dandpiece cleaners, conditioners and 

lubricants 
( a ) Alrotor cleaner. 
(6 ) Airotor lubricant. 
(c) Lubricant. 
(d ) Lubricant syringe. 
( e) Spray a -day. 

( 5 ) Tru torc conditioner . 
20. Alloys -- Fillings and Pellets (Precious and Non - Preclous) 
91. Angle and bandpiece cleaners and lubricants 

( a ) Handpiece cleaner. 
( h ) Handpiece ease (tube). 
(c ) Handpiece lubricant. 

(d ) Lubricating oil perfumed . 
92. Articulating papers . 
93. Articulating paper and accessories and dental doss dis 

penser . 
94 . Bite applicators and sticks. 
95. Cavity liners and bases . 
96 . Cements - Zinc Oxide, Zinco Phospbate , Carboxylate , 

Calcium Hydroxide & Resin . 
97 . Compressor olle . 
98 . Copper or Aluminium or plasting bands . 
99 . Cynoacrylate sprays for surgical use . 
100 . Crown and Bridge and Denture Alda , 

(0 ) Color transfer applicaton , 
(6 ) Hi-spot spray Indicator, 
( c) Indicator paste . 
( d ) Pressure Indicator paste . 

(c) Silicons liquid . 
101. Crowo forms and temporary crovas , 

(a ) Anterior sagortment. 
(b ) Crowns, 
(c) Dispensora . 
( d ) Plastic transparent crown forms. 
(a ) Polycarbonate complete packing 


102 . Crown shells (Material and plastic). 
103. Dental abrassive , polishing and finishing material i 

( a ) Abrassive paste . 
(6 ) Amalgloss . 
(c ) Brass centro spindle stand disc asse. 
(d ) Brass centre disc asst . 
(e ) Disc separating. 

Discs and strips of all kinds -paper , brass coner stand 

disc asst. 
(8 ) Paper disc asst . 
(h) Strips, finishing linen , cuttie . 

( 1) Strips, lightening. 
104 . Dental cotton pellets and rolls . 
103. Dental filling material : 
(a ) Composite resin-- - self curing and light curing (with 

ultraviolet gun ) . 
(6 ) Fisber s sealants . 
(c ) Glass lopomer cements . 

(d ) Self curing and light curing. 
106 . Dental mercury . 
107. Denture repair and reline materials 

(a ) Denture liner and repair kit . 
(6 ) Jet repair acrylic . 
(c ) Minit weld - - powder and liquid . 
(d ) Minit weld repair kit . 

(e ) Self -cure repair material. 
108 . Germicidals and sterilizing aids . 
109 . Hemostatic packs for dental use. 
110 . Impression materials and bite registration materials and 

accessories . 


111 . Lubricants 1 

(a ) Resin materials . 
(b ) Tray material ( Blue). 

(c) Tray material (Pink ). 
112 . Mouth guards and materials for moutb guarda . , 
113. Mouth Mirror De-Fogging Liquids . 
114. Mouth props . 
115. Oral evacuation products 1 

( a ) Aspirator tips . 
(6 ) Cleaning agents. 
(c) Dri -clave. 

(d ) Oral evacuator tips . 
116 . Orange solvent. 


119. Orthodontic materials : 
( a) Band materials - preformed bands , conloured banda 

band strips /rolis . 
b ) . Bonding systems and accessories - all kinds of pastes 

sealents, etching liquid , finishing accessories , meab pade. 
(c) Bracket and tubes . 
(d ) Coil springs apd other types of springs , Jigs and locks. 


184 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 -- Sec . 1] 


APPENDIX 


COMID 


LLI - - Donid 


- Bepan On Tºw of a typer 

) Lighture Altea and Heparation wire 
(B ) Miclo anchorage appliance . 
( 5 ) Orthodontic accesaorla - books, eyelete , cleata , 

buttons , clasps , oblo caps , head gears , elastic lear 

gean , strips , face- bows 
( 1 ) Orthodonotic rubbor posidonory 
( 1 ) Orthodontic wras all types and proformod archai . 
(k ) Rubber and synthetic olastica, clastometic threadı. 

chains and clastic separators of all types 
( 1) Solder « llver/atatiples stcol, dux -pasto liquid 
118 . Permanent dontal comcota aod surgical cements/pact 


121. # ta inlu materiais 

19 ] Hrush in ( T 
101 Brushe - angled 
(c) Brusben - completo 15 
( 1 ) Brusha - straight 
(6) Minute slalo kli 
( ) Opaquer - -powder andtold 
(M ) Stain lot 


123. Surgical suture , blade und Halpet ! 


- 


119 . Poroolain ind plastic 

(a ) Liquid . 
(b ) Povdor . 


(0 ) Sutures exodontia . 
(6 ) Sutura doodloo . 
(c) Suturo spot 


126 fray mater ut 


120 . Propbylasu suppikor 

(4 ) Angla . 
( 0 ) Bridgo alondera , 
(0) Discloslag product 
(d ) Floss. 
( ) Flourido gols and solution , 
( ) Flouride trays and inserts . 
6 ) Prophy pasta . 
(A ) Prophy tableta 
( 1 ) Prophy # caler . 


(a ) Instant trzy mix 
(0 ) Tray matorial 


124 Vacuum lortolog materials and supplier 

(a ) Accuorla . 
(b) Denturo adhoriya 
(c) Proclalon vacuum aduppor 
(d) Roslo bur, 
(e) Resta materiale . 
( Stono plastor gyprom for acourto models 


128 . Waxe ; 


121. Prosthetic materlals 1 

(a ) Casting Investment for dental castogs . 
(6 ) Chromo cobalt alloys , non -precious technic alloy and 

white motal for dental rostorations . 
(c) Groen /brown compound Atloks for crowd nod brlde 

Impressions, 
( ) Gutta porcha atloks and root canal pointu . 
(.) Platnum foils for dontal wo. 
( ) Pulp caps, oellulold , metal and componry acrcylic 

OTOWO . . 
0 ) Rubber base and wilcono lmpression matera 

(A ) Rubber mouldı for propadlog rodola 
112 . Soaler or coment , 

( a ) Alcohol torch noodle famo 
(0 ) Baso plato material pink 
(c) Block out compound 
(d ) Clear material. 
(c ) Coping material. 

Endodontic Implant matorial 
(! ) Gutta poroba polnts. 
(1 ) Mouthguard matorial. 
( 1 ) Proclaloo viouum adaptor ante 
0 ) Rado matortals 
(4 ) Boot coal Auling material. 
( 1 ) Aoot canal roulent and prookt 
(m ) A . C . & polom 
( 1) Tatap pat material, 


Anseplato ya 
(b ) Bauglag VAG tripe unt 1077 * 
(c ) Hier mat 
(d ) Casting wat 
(a) uppreulon wax 
( ) Stcks 
6 ) Tubou and aluminion * * 
(M ) Wax sticks and taban 


129. Wodgoo . 


o 


m 1 


130. X- Ray film 

(a) Dit vle * 
( ) Extreon 
( #) tumnon 

Doclokal. 
( 4 Aumermi , 


123, Spomer, 


[ATT I - 71] 


भारत का राजपत्र : मसाधारण 


185 


APPENDIX 6 - Cond. 


List 


oncld . 


131. X -Ray mounts . 


132 . Anaestblc cartridges for dental usc . 


133. Dental drugs : 

( a ) Disclosing tableta . 
(b ) Bugenol free glogvectomy puoti, 
( c) Modicament bottles 
( d ) Para chlorophenol, 
( Poly antibiotic pasta , 


( d ) Chlorpared soda vith KOH . 
(6) Creosoto. 

Cromadol 
( ) Cromada. 
(A) Dovonalter, 
( 1 ) DuyltaUzing Puston and Comentu. 

- Dry wokat puste. 
(A) Bodo Preparations, 
( 1 ) Bugenol for dontal oko , 
( m ) Formo cresol. 
(n ) Glyoxide liquid . 
(o ) Mummytping & devitalizing pastos. 
( ) N -2 oemont 
( ) Zlog Ozdo for Dental use. 


134 . Drugs and Modicament 

( a Ammonia inbalanta. 
(o ) Calcium hydroxide cor dentalwo. 
(c) Campborated para chlorophenol, 


58 GI/ 85 - 13 . 


186 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


( PART I_ SEC . 1 ] 


APPENDIX 6 - lonia , 


Illustrative List of Educational Scleartfic and Technical Subjects 


1. Agriculture Science & Animal Husbandry . 


( 1 ) Animal Husbandry /Livestock . 
6 ) Agriculture Botany. 
(c ) Horticulture & Gardening . 
( Dairy Farming & Dairy producte . 
(6 ) Batomology . 

Forety & Wood Technology . 
(a ) Plant Pathology & Cytology . 
(A ) Poultry Farming. 
( 1 ) Stock breeding 
( ) Canning & Preservation of frult and fruit producta . 
(k ) Sericulture. 
( 1 ) Bee keeping 
(m ) Fisheries. 
(n ) Natural History , 


2 . Applied & Fine Arts . 


(a ) Handicrafte 
(b) Photography & reprography , 
(c) Connsrciei sis . 
( d ) Civic and Landscape Arts. 
( ) Plastic and Oraphic Arts 
( / ) Purnishing and Interior Decoration , 
($ ) Dance. Drama, Stage Craft and Choreography, 
(h ) Music (both vocai & Instrumental) 
( 1 ) Painting and Drawing 
( 1 ) fodalling and Sculpture . 
( ) Textile Designing 
( 1 ) Meedle WOIA Swing , 
(m ) Cinema & Theeuro. 
( n ) kortery , 
( 0) Educational scientific and technical books and gems and 

jewellery and Rapidary . 


3. Applied Science. 


(0 ) Archaeology . 
(b ) Museology, 
(c ) Archival Scicave . 
di Printing Bindia a Piebilakae . 


( ) Library Scicaçtı 


4 . Busincak Organisation , Indoetrial Management and Pablo 

Adminlatration , 


( a ) Acervolgoro ,Accountancy 
(6 ) Business Minagements , 
(c ) Banking and Finance , 
( d ) Commerce, 
(d ) Publicity and Advertisement, 

Sales & Distilbution , 
(8 ) Civil & Public Administration , 
(A ) Organisations & Methods , 
( 1 ) Insurance , 
( 1) Oreretlopal Rondarcb , 


[ 


I. 


1] 


भारतका राणपत्र : असाधारण 


187 


I 


... 


MITUT 


II 


APPENDIX 6 - Conia . 


Lhot 7 - Cond . 


5 . Bducation 


( a ) Educational Psychology . 
(b ) Podagogy — thcory & Practice . 
(c ) Physical Education & Recreation , 
(d ) Teachlog Arts , 
(o ) Methodology of Education , 


6 Boglawring and Technology . 


( a ) Agronautta . 
(b ) Town & Country Planning and Architecture. 
(c ) Chemical Enginoorlog and Tochnology , 
(d ) Automobile Englacering . 
(6 ) Electrical Engineering. 
( ) Electronics, Radio , Wireless and Television, 
( 8 ) Mochanical Engineering . 
(4 ) Mlong Eogooorlog . 
( 1 ) Nuclear Energy . 
( ) Potrolour Engloocring . 
(k ) Toxtile Enginoorlog. 
( 1 ) Material Eoglaocring . 
(m ) Nuclear Engineering and Tochnology . 
(a ) Hydraullo . 
(0 ) Telecommunication , 
6 ) Civil and Structural Englacerlog. 
(9 ) Highway Boginoorlog . 
(v ) Transport Englaoering. 
(1) Rofrigeration and Noumatic Tochnology . 
( ) Workshop Practico . 
(u ) Machigo & Macbing Tool Dolgolog & Construction , 
(v ) Instrument Technolow . 
(w ) Minoral Enginooring . 
(* ) Automation and Servo -Mochanlım , 
( ) Cybardotia . 
(1 ) Motallurg . 
(20 ) Textile Tochnology . 
(bb ) Manufacturing Procou . 
(cc) Plastic Technology. 
(dd ) Silicate Tochoology , 
( 0 ) Cormics , 
( 5 ) Laribor Toobnolony . 
( ) Aprloulture Engineering. 
(AA ) Applied Geoloxy # Goophyalon, 
( 0 ) Naru Arobleotura Dockyard Construtlus . 
UD Depind yotion wellne. 
(44 ) Armbly a Coulotlos TehnWR . 
( 1 ) # 1 onto # 1 014 Kwamela 
( o ) Computer Holino , 
( * *) firm Empleet . 
v Anyirodaontol Sart . c . . 


188 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART 1- - Sec . 1] 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 6 - Contd . 


” , 4 


– Cotº, 


7. Hamapitio . 


City Civo . 
(h) Philosophy , Boston & Western, 
(c) Logo 
( 1) History . 
fa Goography & Cartography . 
( 1 ) LAW & Legal Affairs (National & International ). 
f ) Ontology & Mothodology . 
(h ) Ethics. 
( 1 ) Standard Literary Critclam . 
(1 ) Religion 


8 . Medical Science . 


( a ) Anatomy & Physlology . 

(6 ) Childcare & Paodlatrias . 
* (c) Dentology . 

(d ) Ear, Nose and Throat. 
(6 ) Embryology . 
( Health . 
( 8 ) Gynaecology & Obstetrics, 
(h ) Nursiny . 
( 1 ) Histology. 
( 1) Ophthalmology , 
(k ) Psycblatry. 
( 1 ) Pharmaacology . 
( m ) Pharmacy . 
(n ) Therapeutics and Toxicology . 
(o ) Modloine. 
( p ? Surgery . 
(9 ) Biology . 
( ) Blochemistry . 
( Hospital Administration , Modical Cars Administration , 

Health Administration , Public Health Administration and 

Nursing Administration . 
( ) Hospital/Health Planning, 
(u ) Rebabilitation . 
( y) Caner. 
( # ) Mo-modical Engineering. 
(7 ) Humon (ienetlen , 
( 1 ) Health Pronomics. 
Oply Roolal Sciences. 
( aat Hospital Continy , 
( 6b ) Neurology and Neurosurgery . 
(rc) Cardiology and Cardiothorocla. 
( dd ) Pacdiatric Surgery . 
( or ) Naxlo -facial and Plastlo Surgory . 
( f ) Urology. 
(89 ) Ortho - paodlas . 


[ATT I. 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र · असाधारण 


189 


APPENDIX Q -Contd , 


L84 - LONCHO 


9 . Military Science and ita History 


(a ) Air. Naval and Military Eogineering and Technology . 
: ) Arms ammunition and equipmeni. 

) Military Flistory . 
*" ) Military Strategies and Modern Techniqner of vartare . 


10 . Pure Sciraca. 


ysicy 
doo Chemistry 
(c ) Math matics. 
( $ ) . " Nond Douvrentes , 
(9 Astrum yang Alle Sclckch. 


u Za 
no } { colors 


11 . Roterence Books , 


* 43) Bibliographies . 
(0 ) W s 10 and Current Avairo . 
( 1 acetVES $ 
$ ex t he FNCOIL . 

wsyp 2.46 $ 03 . 
V ) Alust, 
( 8 ) Map 
(li) Languag . & Pras se Bocks . 
( 1 ) B : ks in prints & Catalogues. 
( 1 ) Buks I clasifi, alion of Books . 
(k ) - Duration 
1, 4«** log(# 1) " emption . 

oor Pays -l *** 1947 


V 


12 . Social Science 


lai pyych i gy inclu lingpara & pseudo pychology 
(0 ) Anthropclogy. 
( c Pulitical act . 
(d) Economics . 
(C ) Hyme cience . 
f i ningy & Social lostinkti 
(2 ) Cul*ure & Civil -aliou 
(h ) Crirnisology & Irvropite celi vedcy 


13 . Text books including books of fiction which are picsvribed or recommended for studks in Educational Institutions by a recognised 

Educational Board of Auth riti 


14 . Children books covered by subjzets specified ab Wi . 


15 . Back volumes of Scientific Technical Legal and found a projek Second hani): 


190 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART 1 - -Sec . 11 


- 


- ew 


APPENDIX 6 - (Contd .) 


LIST 8 


PART 


ITEMS OF RAW MATERIALS , COMPONENTS, AND CONSUMABLES ALLOWED FOR IMPORT 
UNDER OPEN GENERAL LICENCE BY ACTUAL USERS (INDUSTRIAL) ONLY, SUBJECT TO 

ACTUAL USER CONDITION 


17. Ammonium thiocyanate (Ammonium sulphocya 

Dide thiocyanate of Rhodanide and Rhodantum ) 


Chemical and Allled Items : 
1. Absorbable gelatine sponge. 
2 . Acetoacet Compounds, the following - 


18 . Amobarbitol, 
19 . Amoxacillin sodium . 
20 . Amphetamine sulphate . 


(1) Acetoacet diethylamide . 


(2) Acetoacet dimethylamide. 


(3) Acetoacet monomethylamide . 


21 . Ampicillin sodium . 
22 . Amyl alcohol. 
23. Androstenolone. 


(4 ) Acetoacot- M -xylidide. 


( 5 ) Acetoacet- O - Anisidide . 


24 Androstenedion . 


23 . Animal glue and belt dressings. 


3. Acetophenone (also known as methyl ketone 

or acetyl benzene ). 
4 . Acetyl sulphanyl chloride. 


26 . Anti-corrosive Agents (other than ethylene 

diaminę 


27. Antimony oxide . 


28 Art and chrome paper and Art and chrome 

board , 


5 . Acrylio plastic sheets of 0 . 85 cm to 1 . 2 mm 

thickness and acrylic plastic scrap (crushed ). 
6 . Acrylic fibre tips, polyacetal tips and ink 

catridges for writing instruments . 
7 . Activated alumioa, 
8 . Agar agar (other than pharmaceutical grade ). " 


29 AZO -Ribitylamine 


9 , Alfamyl Cinnamic aldehyde. 
10 . Alpba Pinenc . 
11 Aluminium oxide (including polishing puwder ) 

synthetic. 
12 . Aluminium powdor /tukes of industrial explo 

sive grade . 
13. Aminu iso gamma acid /salt 
14 . l- Amino 2 -Naphihol 4 -Sulphoolo acid /salt , 
13. l-Amino 6 -Nitru 2 -Naphibol 4 -Sulphonic sold / 

salt 
10 . Amino - Phylloe . 


30 . Barbitol 
31 . Battery depolarized Chemical of gamma 

variety 
32 . Benzopheavde . 
33, Benzoyi Peroxide 
34 . Benzoyl-J -acid /sall . 
35 Benzyl cyanide. 
36 . Betamethasovc and its salts . 
37. Beca naphthylamino . 
38 . Billiard cloth , rubber cushions for Billiard 

tables . 


39. Bismuth . 


[ATTI _ _ 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


191 


WVOM 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART- 1- Conrd . 


71. Chloro para altro tulucne , chloro para amino 

toluene . 


12 . Chlorpheniramine maleate , 


73 Chloroquin Sulphate . 


74 . Clay bonded graphite crucibles size above 300 . 


15 Loudmnd. 


16 


Colloidal graphite. 


40 . Black Paper (Photographic grade ) 
41. Bleaching Earth . 
42 . Bromine. 
43. Bronidiol (2 -Broox )-2-nitro propu1 - 1, 3-DIC ). 
44 . Butylated hydroxycol 
# 5 Calannine 
46 . Calcium citrat 
47. Calcium gluconat , i c ol niet over 
48 Calcium manganese fica alloys. 
49. Carboos , Arc Air uwing . 
50 . Carbon black - - for printing ink , paintand carbon 

paper manufacturers only . 
51. Carbon electrode bricks , green /baked /kil ed . 
52 . Carbon electrode pai te suderbere gaste ) 
33. }-Carboxy- 1- (p -sulph .pba yt)- 3.by leaks 
34 . Case Dard .ang compouuu . 
55. Carcin based gadags did dreyssays for kath . 

Qoishing . 
56 Catalysts (organic .norgado - Lu than thuio 

in Appendix 3 Part A 
57. Cathode blocks 


77 . Condensor insulating and impregnating oils . 
78 . Condensor, Rubbing Aprons for Woollen Cards 

and Rubber Blankets for printing industry. 


79 Conveyor betting, other than conveyor belting 

upto 1700 mm width . 


80 . Colloidal and fumed silica 
81. Copper cyanıde . 
82 . Corusone acetate . 
83. Cottoa linters. 


84. Cumidine Isocyanate . 


85. Cushion felts and soft sponge sheets with or 

without cotton ply . 


86 . Cyanuric Chloride. 


37 wycloba, bitvi. 


58 . Cellulose Aceton Ww. Itorrent 10750 

powder 
59 . Cellulose acetate tlaku s/puwuer / tiips 
60 . Cellulose acetate /nitrate sheet. 


88 . 4 - Cynopyridine. 


89. Decaiconania Papers/ Transfers , 


61. Cellulose powde . Ocking mico . ystalline 

cellulose piwder. 
62. Chart paper/Recording paper 
63 . Chloramyezicul Stearate au 

fraic 
Sodium Succinate. 


90 DHA acetan 
91 10-DPA , 


1 


64 . Chlorhexidine bars 


22 Dexamethasonc, 
13 . Dextaz powder. 
94 Detroamphylamine and its salts. 


69. Chloro dimeth ty du 18 lt . 
66 Chloro -dimethoxy nikto nelle 
67 3 Chloro - Metbox plenyi 140cy a. Hid , 
68 ( Hr Uw drubl lt481 : 18 PC 3 gboy 


95 . Domuose aaydious 
96. Dextrose monohydrate . 
97 Dja yı lise solat faulding cornpoudd . 
986 · A ptuns . . 


tou 


pr# 
70 . 2 -chloro -2 , 6- diethyl -N methyl aceiambire ( A70 

methane 


+ 1 


+ x + 


1; 


100 Di-Calcium phospbate . 


192 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

[PART I– Sec ..11 
APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART-I — Contd . 
101 . 21 4 Dichloro benzoic acid . 

130 . Bstradiol Beacoate . 
102. 2, 4 Dichloro benzoyl chlorlde. 

131 . Bstrono . 
103 . 2 , 4 Dichloro toluene . 

132 . Etching chemicals i.e. additive filming agents , 

for " Printing units only " , 
104. Dl- ethylsulphate. 

133. Bthinyl estradiol, 
105. Di-J-acid /salt (Rhoduline acid /salt). 

134 . Ethisterone . 
106 . Dimenhydrinate. 

135 . Ethoxymothylene malonic acid ester (EMME ). 
107. Dimethyl acetamide. 

136 , Ethylene glycol mono cthyl ether /acetate . 
108 . 21 % Dimethyl-4-chlorophenyl thioglycolic acid 

137. Ethyl monochloro acetate. 
109, Dimethyl Chloro - totracyclino. 

138 . Ethylphenyl cyanoacetic oster, 
110 . 2 : 5 Dimethoxy aniline . 
111. 2 1 3 Dimeiboxy nitro benzene. 

139. Ethylphenyl maloole ester . 
112 . Di-oxyazlı .. 

140 . Fat liquora . 
113. Diphenhydramino hydrochloride. 

141. Filter Aids . 
114 . Dichloro acetic acid . 

142 . Filter paper including impregnatod . 
115 . Di- tertiary butyl meta cosol . 
116 . Divinyi benzene monomor . 

143. Filter paper for tea bags heat-seal/non -heat 

seal typo - for manufacturers of tea bags only , 
117 . Draving reproduction Alms including matted 

polyester Olm , trading/drafting films and diazo 144 . Film Splicers. 
sensitised films. 

145 . Flocculating agents based on poly acrylamide 
118 . Dyes/dye -stuffs /organic pigments and colours , 

(dispex ). 
other than those in Appendix 3 Part- A . 

146 . Fluo boric acid . 
119. 2 -- Ethyl Hexanoic acid (Octoic acid ). 

147 . Frusemide (Furosemide ). 
120. Ebonite rods, sheets and tubes, 

148 . Burfuralamine. 
121. Electrical insulating materials - all types, but 

cxcluding condensor and capacitor tissue paper. 149 . Glass fibre articles, the following :-- 
122 . Electrocast refractories with Zirconia content 

(1) Fibre glass filter bags . 
40 % and above . 

(11) Fibre glass cylinders and fibre glass insula 
123 . Electrolytic manganese dioxide . 

lated tapes used in switchgears and rotating 
124 , Empty hard gelatine capsules. 

machines , 
125 . Ephedrioc hydrochloride . 

( ili ) Fibro glass reinforced cryogenic necks and 

tubes for cyro containers . 
126 . (1) Epoxy/ Epoxido resin . 
(11) Coumarone indene resin . 

( lv ) Aluminised glass fibre fabrics , 
(III) Terpene indenc resin /Polyterpone resin . 

150 . Glass wool (other than 1-microa dia ). 
(iv) Epoxy /Epoxide moulding compounds. 
127. Epoxy Plasticizers . 

151 . Glutethimide . 
128. Ergot Sclerotia ( Ergot of Rye) 

152 . Glycol others . 
129. Erythromyclo ethyl succinate. 

153. Glycerinc. 


[ TTI - 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


193 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART- I - Contd . 


134 . Granulated cork . 
155 . Graphite electrodes 21" diameter and above. 
156 . Griscofulvin, 


(9 ) Phenothoatc . 
( 10) Propanil 
(11) Propoxur 

( 12 ) Zineb Technical 85 % and above. 
173. Industrial Nylon Yarn of 210 denier and above. 


157 . Gum Rosin . 


158 . Halothane including Halothane in bottles . 
159 . Heat absorbing filters . 
160 . Heatset /hot carbonised printing inks. — for 

printing industry only . 


174 . Industrial X -ray films. 


175 . Lo sitol. 


161. Hoat transfer oil , (synthetic). 


176 . Insulatiog oils (synthetic ) including chlorinated 

diphenyl other than transformer oil synthetic. 


162 . Hexachloroethane. 


163. High density alumina grinding media . 
164. Hydrocortisono . 


165 . Hydrocortisone acetate . 


177 Investment castinys vaxes. 
178 . Isoamyl alcohol. 
179 . Iso bornyl acetate . 
180 . Isobutyl acetate . 
181. Iso propyl alcohol. 
182 bo propyl otbcr. 
183 . Iso propyl-methyl-exy -pyrimidine . 
184 , J-acid /salt . 
185 -3c1d urea/« ai . 


166 Hydrogen peroxide . 


167. 8 -Hydroxyquinoline . 


168. Indomethacin . 


169 . Impregnating oil for electric paper board 

insulators and cable filling oils /compounds--- 
for units engaged in cable industry only . 


170 . Industrial diamonds including powder ( other 

than gem variety ), 


171. Iron / Alloy Iron Powder — for sintered products 

manufacturers . 


172 . Insecticides, 

following - 


pesiticides and weedigides, the 


186 . Jumbo rolls of width 1 metre and above of the 

following : 
(1) Cinematographic Colour films (unexposed ) 

positive. 
(ii ) Amateur Rolls films. 
( iii) Graphic Art films. 
(iv ) Industrial X -Ray Film . 

(v) Medical X -Ray Film , 

(vi) Photographic Colour Paper. 
187 Kanamycin . 
188 . Labratory & rengint chemicals, the following : 

(1) Methyl lodice, pure quality . 
(1 ) Potassium amyl xaothate , 


( 1) Aldicurb 
(2) Bonomyl. 


(3 ) Captan . 


(4) Dalapon. 


(5) Dicofol 


(6) Fdifenptos 


(1 ) Potassium ethyl xanthate . 
( iv ) Potassium for tabisulphite , avatar qnality . 

(v ) Sodium bisulçhate, pure and analar quality 
( v1) Sodinn utlyi " a01late, 
Kid ) Sidum lyco-513 + antista , 
(vill ) Sodina netuhi uiphuic , muie and uniks 

quality . 


(7) Ethylene Di-bromide. 


(8 ) Mancozeb . 


194 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY : 


[PART I- Sec . 1) 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PARI-L- Contd . 


189 . Lacquers and varaishes - - including emulsi * * 

thereof. 
190 . Lasamido ( 2 , 1 dichlon : 5 -Sulphannoyi bengolo 

acid ). 
191. Laurents acid . 
192 . Lustre colour. 
193 Magnesia ipsulaung materials . 
194 . Magiiesium carbunate, light. 
195 Magnesium oxide , light, 
196 . Mandelamio . 
197 . Mdodelic acid . 
198 . Manganese dioxide, chemical synthetic/monda 

grade /natural. 
199 , Manganese oxide , chewnical/synthetic /monda 

grade. 
200 . Magnesium Powder 
201. Matrix boards/Stereo tungk. 
202 . Mebavarine Hydrochloride . 
203 . Mebendazole . 
204 . Melamin , nprcgadung powi , 
205 . Melton cloth for tennis balls . 
206 Mephenusa (glycay! orthorsyi etnut ). 
207. Metachloro anillot . 
208 . Meta nitrobenzene Sulphonic acid . 
209. Mota nitro chlors beazcod . 
210 . Meta -phenoxy beazaldehyde . 
211. Metallic sectais. 
212 . Metallic Yarn . 
213 . Mzia substitutsikyl phenol (Cubonol). 
214 . Methampbetamine , 
215 . Methyl anthranilite . 
216 . Methyl chloride. 
217 . Methyl dichloro citite . 
218 . Methylene culori . 
219. Metnyi suyl nvidih . 
220 . Methyi forras . 
221. Methyl Isobuty! Ketone 
222 LA , thu -S - Thiar iltihan 

223. Metol. 
224 . Micro -cellular sheets including PVC battery 

separators . 
225. Misch ractal. 
226 . Molecular sieves . 

227 Afolybdenum based greases qu ubicani: 


228 . Monoetnyieac sijon , 
229 , Tusk keIC DE 
230 . Musk xylol. 
231. Naptha (solvent grade ). 
232 . 2-Naphthyl thioglycolic acid , , 
333 Nuirrel graphite carbori blocks 
234 . NN Diethyl aniline. 
235 N - ( P . (Beta ( 2 methoxy- 5 chioro benzamide 

cthyl) phenyl sulphenyi urea . 
236 . Nikethamide . 
237 . Nitrazupam 
238 +-Nitra , 2-amire pheno ! 
239. Nylon 66 · moulding powder having melting 

point 260°C and above , 
240V W acid . lt 
241. Nylon Mono - filament bristles. 
- 42 . Nylon partially oriented yarn (NOY). 
243 . Vyion waste -- for actual user (Industrial) 

engaged in recovery of Caprolactum as 

certified by DGTD , N . Delhi. 
244 ** o 
245 . Oil well cement - For ONGC & Oil India Ltd . 

only . 
246 . Optical gas (1aw ). 
247 . Optical whitening agene: - 
248 . Organic surface active agents (other than soap ). 

and also excludiag those mentioned in Appen 

dix - 3 Part A 
249 , 100 ajoil , t el 
250 Ort * *!. . 0 anilins 
251, Ortho -en . 01 vulpurphesayl) -3-methyl-3 py - 

razolone. 
252 . TDC . ( ra otro antline . 
253 Ortho -chicro sbcnol. 
254. Orth . -dan , idina 

55 Onunu pienstleix . 
< 56 06) 
457 014 toubidea di- hidrokloride:baso . 
258 . I am here kant gietanic acisá. 
59 -Chierobenzyl cysolde 
260 . Panthenols. 
261. Paper Waster Units engaged in the wanu 

facture of pnlp paper and paper board . 
* * * * ** 

* ** * 
261 Park amian hrizoic acid 


[Art Im * 11 


भारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 


195 


APPENDIX Ó LIST 8 PART- 1- - Contd . 


296 . Phosphorous (amorpliou s ) i.e . white/yellow 

phosobonus 


297 ppssphorous pentasulphide . 


198 Hig , pborous trichlord . 
199 . : phrrir stid ( industrial gradei 
300 psline buta and gainsi. 


301. Pig iron containing pbosphorous not more 

than 0 . 1 % 


264 . Parachloro aniline . 
265 P -chlorobenzone Sulphenyi ured , 
266. Para chloro Benzyl cyanide. 
267, Parachloro ortho nitro - aniline . 
268 Parachloro phenol. 
269 . Para cresyl phenyl acetate. 
270 Para cumidise Isocyanate . 
271• - Deleted 
272 . Para formaldehyde . 
273 . Paraffinic /napthenic / aromatic rubber plasticisers . 
274 . Para hydroxy beozoic acid 
275. Paraldehyde. 
276 . Para nitro aniline . 
277. Para nitroanisole . 
278 . Para nitro benzoic acid . 
279 . Para toluene sulphonyl chloride . 


302. Pigment finishes for leather. 
303. Plain polyester film . 


304. Plain , felt sheets. 


pritocr /granules 


305 Pilyethylene rxsin /masuking 

( all grades ) 
306 ester Staple Fibre. 


307 Polymethyl Methacrylate 

(Acrylic PcUets) 


noul ing 


pellets 


280 Para toluidinę meta sulphonic acid (PTMS ). 
281. Para Toluidine - 5 .sulphonic acid and its salle . 


308 Polypropylenc tibi. £19 . 


tilasucul vara tal 


309 Polypropylene /polyuihy on 

types ). 


310 . Polystyrene resin / granules /moulding powder. 


311. Polyvinyl acetate/acrylats and co -plymers , 


312. Polyvinyi alenna 


313 P lyvinyl buty 4k Test chec1.. 
314 Potassium Compound , the following:- - 


282 . 1-( P - Sulphophenyl)- 3-in -thyl-5 -plazolone . 
283. Pentabarbitol. 
284 . Perchloroethylene. 
285 . Pethidine Hydrochloride. 
286 Perl acid /salt. 
287. Pheneto in sodium and Diphenyl liydantoin . 
288 . Pro viramine maleate 
289 . Phenol formaldehyde resinous tubes , whetnek 

paper bonded based or fabric based nad /or 

paper based rods 
290 . (i) Phenrol Formaldehyde moulding powder 

(electrical grade). 
(ii ) Urea Formaldehyde moulding powder 

(electrical grade). 
( iii ) Melamine Formaldehyde moulding powder 

( electrical grade) 
291 . Phenoxy aceric acid and its salts. 
292 . Phenyl hydrazine. 
293 . Phenyi J. acid salt . 
294 . Phenyl peri acid salt 
295 Phoaphorouk ( red ) 


(1 ) Pasium bicartx nate . 
m)P lum tuc 171 . 
6 ) Passan fuoride AR and talusleal gracie 


(6 ) Potassium init brulphit 


(5 ) Poltsiun silout 


3 5 


uliligo 


716 pe misom 


317 Pregnenolone 


196 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I- SEC . 1] 


.. 


+ 


14 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART-I - Contd . 


paper 


(electrical and 


industrial 


318 . Pressphan 

grades ). 


319 . Primidone . 
320 . PTFE tapes. 
321. PTFE tubes. 
322 . PVC film with embossing , engraving and tos 

turised finish , 
323 PVC separators. 
324. Pure Iron (Unwrought form ) for remelting 

purposes. 
325 . (a ) Pure ortho or pure para or pure meta 

cresols (both chemical and technical grades) 
each of purity not less than 97 % . 
(6 ) High boiling tar acids and cresote oil 

haring boiling range above 2200C . 
326 . Pyrazinamide. 
327 . Pyridine. 
328 . Quality Control film strips and targets for 

printing units only. 
329 . Quartz and fused blanks, slabs, sheets for 

making prisms and casos, etc . 
330 . Radio Active material ) For actual users on 
331 . Rare Earth Oxide inclu - production of recom 
ding rutile sand. 

mendation from 
Depat. of Atomic 

Energy . 
332. Rayon grade woodpulp . 
333 Rangolite 

C u m Sulphoxe te formal 
dehyde 
334 Recording Chart/E . C .G . recording paper. 
335 , Refracton .ws - tar bunied impiesna sud basic 

Reffaictoil s , Fised Cast dick , rehnded has 
Tefractories inuiuding DBM with a content 

upto 6 % 
336 . Refractory Specialities like monoliths and 

refractory raw materials like mullite, Sin 
tered alumina , Sintred mullite but excluding 

calcined bauxite. 
337. Ribitylamine . 
338 . Rifampicin . 
339. Rose crystals ( trichloromethy: pk . 0 caibinyi 

acetate ). 
340 . Rough opthalmic blanks (other than those 

made of polymethyl methacrylate plastic ) ex 

culing fwdpucal blauks 
341. Rubher blinkafu all types (other than those for 


343 . Rubbrt chequcals such as acculerators , curing 

agents , anti -oxidants , retarders, peptisers and 
re - claiming a cott ( except those mentioned in 

Appendix - 3 Part- A ). 
344 . Rubber thread , the following types : 

(1) Bare rubber thread above 90 gauges . 

( ii ) Heat resisting rubber thread . 
345 . Salbutamol. 
346 . Salicylic acid including sodium salicylate . 
347. Schaeffer s acid /salt . 
348 . Secobarbitone . 
349 Secobarbitone sodium . 
350 . Shuttle cock bottom . 
351 . Silicon carbide grains. 
352 . Silicon carbide graphite crucible size over 100 

and carbon boaded graphite crucibles. 
353 . Silicone compounds/ fluids/oils/resins (excluding 

chlorosilanes ). 
354 . Silver cyanide. 
355 . Sintered glass beads 
356 . Slidegate Refractory plates other than magnisite 

based plates (excluding well blocks and nozzles 
and nozzles of all types),fused silica refractories 

and carbon refractories. 
357. Sodium bromide . 
358 . Sodium chlorate . 
359 , Sodium chlorite . 
360 . Sodium fluoride . 
361. Sodium methoxide . 
362 . Sodium mono fluro phosphate . . 
363 . Sodium salt-oxal acetic ester/oxal acetic ester, 

Oxal acetic ester sodium salt . 
364. Sodium Sulphate . 
365. Solvent naptha . 
366 . Soya lecithin . 


. 


. 


we 


F 


367. Specialised tissues the following : 

(a ) Carbonising tissues and 

(6 ) Coloured and pectoral cigarette tissues. 
368 . Spin / fibre/textile finishing oils-all types whether 

organic surfactant in nature or otherwise, as 
long as they ure needed for natural and man 
made fibre industries , 


342. Rubber conveyor Belting upto 1700 mm width 

reinforced with cotton /cotton nylon. 


[HTTI - 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


197 


LL 
WWWWW 


.. 


Vw 


y 


the 


WWW 
w 

WnLR 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART- 1 - Contd . 


403. Trimethyl phosphite . 


369 . Staroping foil . 
370 . Stencil paper, 
371. Stickers, lables and guoumed into team 


404. 3, 35 Dimethoxy tie dye iftir 
405. Tris Nonyl Phenyi phosphite . 
406 . borgarin 
407. Unsat irated alcolal ( C - 13 to C -18). 
408 . Used /Scrap rubber tyres / tubes (each tyre/ 

tube subjected to atleast one cut before ship 
ment from the exporting country or before 
clearance from the custvins)- -for units engaged 

in reclaiming rubber. . 
409. Vanillin /ethyl Vanillin (including mixed lignin 

aldehyde). 
410 . fizes ne sore . 
411 . Viscose staple fibre including polynosic 

fibre /tow . 
412 . Vitamin B -6 ( Pyridoxin H .1/Pyridoxin base ) 

and intermediates of pyridoxin . 


bits 


413 


P Papu . 


415. Watch greases . 
416 , Wax emulsions. 


372 . Succinic acid . 
373, Succinyl chlorine chlorld . 
374 . Sulptuacimetni xio . 
375 . Sulphafurazole 
376 . Sulphamettio sypynoa ilta . 
377 . Synthetic bleaching agent. ( luptarnbluching 

powder or hypo - chi yrir lo 
378 Synthetic ion exchange resins except voor 

exchange resins. 
379 . Synthetic organic tanning agelli. 
380 . Synthetic Pyrethrum (including syotheria pyro. 

throids other than decanuthriu , puime hıria . 

cypermethrin , ſepvallrale ). 
381. Synthetic red oxide and Portanoo r 
382 . Synthetic rubber except butyl rubber, Nespret 

chloroprene , Hyp . lon , Vilti , Bromobatyi, 

chlorobutyl, PTFE and E . P .D . M . 
383 . Synthetic ruby , unworked . 
384. Tagboard. 
385 . Teleprinter perforatcd paper, rolls and taoc . 
386 . Terbutaline sulphate 
387 . Tetra colorosthane. 
388 . Tetra sodium pyrophosphate annt uther Dj 

phosphates of sodirn 
389 . Theophyllines . 
390 . Thiazole/thiazolo guanidine derivante . 
391. Thionyl chloride . 
392 . Thiuram derivatives . 
393 . Thymol. 
394 . Titanium sponge . 
395 . Tinidazole. 
396 . TIOC (Erithromycin thic cyn ate . 
397 . Tobias acid /salt . 
398 , Transfer press-phan paper. 
399 . Tri-alkyl phosphate . 
400. Tri-aryl phosphate. 
401. Tri-methyl Phosphate. 
402. Triethanolamine titanate and is aprunyi tita 

nate . 


417 . V grea : * 
418 . Woollen rags/synthetic rags/shoddy wool in 

completely pre -mutilated forın only . 
4 . 9 Woven toril . (eit u ludon paper marker ielts 
420 , WC; * 310 . 
421 Zirconiua icate sind zir , um pacifiers, 

XLc !lling Inkm ) INLI) 10di IC 10 pwder 

29 : Trainer . 
tagireer.ng and tried Jtezas 
422 Acrowd valy .. , Until thun m :tered typr . 
423 . (i) 3490 / 3420 Taper Roller Bearings 38 . 1mm . 

( ii ) 02475 /0240 Taper Roller 

31.75mra . 
( iii) 2585 /2523 S Taper Roller Bearing 33. 338mm 
(iv) 32305 Taper Roller bearings (Outer bearing 

FRT hub 25 min ). 


(v) Split type Roller Bearing. 


424 . All other ball cylindrical, taper , spherical 

and other roller bearings including nedle 
roller bdarings eedle bush :s and necdle cages 
and components thereol not ; pecified anywhere 


2 


else . 


198 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


PART I - Sec . 1] 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART- I - Conid . 


425. All germanium devices 


426 . Aluminium / Aluminium alloys in olju Sectioitu 

pipes and tubes (all extruded aluminium item 
other than aluminium collapsible tubes , rigid 
cang and containers. 


link chains for anchoring, hoisting and 
mining applications, including all other 
types of link chains and components 
thereof othor than those which are covered 

under Appendix 3 Part- A . 
443. Chemical porcelain ware and ceramics for over 

1200°C temperature applications. 
444 . Charge Nickel all sorts including Ferro Nickel 

and Nickel Oxido Sinter. 


427, Aluminium capillary tubing . 
428 . Aluminium rolled products , sheets, 

circles and glugs . 


strips , 


429 , Aluminium foils (including etched and forma, 

foils ) 


430 . Aluminium slats for venetian blinds. 


445 . Civil Engineering instruments the following : - 

(1) Strain transducers. 
( 2) Stress transducers. 
(3) Displacement transducers. 
(4) Pressure transducers . 


43) . Anti -corrosion packing paper. 


432 . Ballpon refill tips nozzles 


446 . Clay graphite and graphite stopper heads and 

nozzles including fire clay stopper heads and 
1997 : 


433 . Berryllium Copper wire /rods/tubes /coils/strips/ 

sheets with or without plating. 


484. Bifurcated and tubular rivets . 


435 . Bimetal/multi -metal strips of all composition 

including ferrous and non- ferrous composition 
with or without steel backing excluding strips 
for themostatic type himetal/tri - metal/multi 
metal strips and copper/ aluminium bimetal 
strips . 


436 . Blades for Shearing and tropping machines 

for textile mills only . 


| 437. Brazed aluminium plate and fumed 

exchangers for - Air separation plants. 


heat 


438 , Buttweld type pipe fittings less than 1 dia , 


447 . Commutators for motors and gencrators 

includiog commutator segments. 
448 . Condenser bushings above 245 KV rating . 
449 . Consumables for foot-wear and leather goods 

manufacturers : 

(1) Pre-punched cards used in leather foot-wear. 
(2 ) Plastic /PVC /Nylon tests with or without 

steel hinges. 
( 3) Cutting and clicking dies. 
(4 ) Polyethylene/Nylon /PVC /Polyester hytro 

nic type clicking boards. 
(5) Aluminium shoe forms with or without 

hoating olement, 
(6 ) Silver marking pens. 
(7 ) Industrial sewing machine needles with 

leather . 
(8 ) Harness Doodles for band sewing. 
(9 ) Boll /skiving knivos. 
(10 ) Plastle pattcros. 
(11 ) Band koiſo for splitting macbloon. 
( 12 ) Stamplog whoole. 
( 13 ) Hand sewing awls . 
( 14 ) Plastic Nylon tipped hampers. 
( 15) Tbermoplastic Coment such as Polyamide, 

Polyurethane, Resing in rods or granules. 
450 , Copper !Aluminium [micro -motal sheet used 

in the manufacture of blocks for printing 
uuite only 


439, Carbon are lamps which operate at 120 anips . 

and above , complete with or without their 
comiling systems 


440 Carixidge fuxca- --250 V and upto 10 amp. of 

Nie (ype Tac Delny /slow Blow oud Antisurge 
17 ! Autiny 


441. Centrifugally cast seamless steel pipes and 

Auton ( including atainleds sleel) upto 375 mm 


442 Chains : 


(u ) Holei 


chelns uod components Chetros 


( 11) Kolp chatni, holating hain . viz . Vowrought 

irou und blcel. lud link 19 :18, Valde ] 


[ TIT11 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


199 


Sum 

M 


LE 


KA 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART- 1 - Conid . 


451 . Copper 

1 .00mm . 


clad 


wire (Dumet) dia 0 .2mm 


to 


473 Glass Screens and contact screens (Grey and 

Mageta )/Colour fillers- -- for printing units only. 


71 Glas , Tubing for Hypodermic syringes. 


452 . Copper and copper alloy « in he form of 

plain sheets wider than 1200 n . and fous 
of thickness below 0 06 m . 


475 Gun metal bushes , 


453. Copper moulds (for continuous billet casting) 

for integrated steel plants , mini- steel plants and 
electric arc furnace . 


476 lle ting elements excluding those covered in 

Appendix 3 Part A 


454. Corner Castings of freight containers. 


477 . 11foile bit , init dhe sucts , 


478. High efficiency DC and brushless Motors 


455 . Cupro - nickel (like German silver , 

silver ) semis flat products and wire . 


Nickel 


479 . High efficiency pumps- for 

ments . 


solar energy equip 


456 . D .C . Circuit breakers, field breakers , 
457 . Dies for teeth mould - -electroform . 


430 (a ) Horological Brass strips w .th accurate fatness, 

bight regular surfack and shoared edges , 
tuckness til rance of T- 3 and width tole 
Culice uf B - 13 gra le thickness range 0 . 10 
to 2 . 00 inm . 


458 Dry cell batteries other than those hased on 

manganese dioxide 


459 . Door seals far freight containers. 


460 . Electric resistance alloys ( errous breed ) is this 

forms of rods, wires an : *711 * 


(b ) Horological Brass lods, bright drawn or 

Cuntrel se gr ) !! ! finish 11 pui fectly - straigh 
t ndl iglis ut 3 miros With diameter 
til ranc T I 7 grada. Diam tr range 
0 . 60 to 110 am .-- For Watch /clock / Time 
P14 Ce s mou ifautoturs ( 1114 chnical and Quartz 
Ajalugur ) 


461 . Electromagnetic cotonec ind carrot olite 


462 . Endless triple wire mesh of 65 / 195 or finer. 


481. Indicating instruments (dash board instruments ) 

and comuudents thereof for antoinutive vehicles / 
equipments and stationary engines . 


463. Filter segments. 


133 


ye ! ! 


I 


nu 


ar Dies 


464 Flame proof explosion proof slipring (including 

geared ) motors 
465 . Flame-proof cable half couplers straight and 

bent adopters . 
466 . Tractional Horse Power Electric Motor 

excluding instrument cooling fan niotors , micro 
motors, brushless DC. motors , stepper motors , 
Servo motors , electrical brake motors uptor 
torque rating not indig N UC il 
( 15 Kg. cml/or upt 20 W 111 . 111 .* 


494 

AI 
435 . Items of carbon stell fluoges , discs of all sizes 

above 1000 mm ansi rinus of all sizes above 
1500nın nominal buscando.bove 0 . D) , 2000mm . 


16 listu.nent Cool: ng Fan Motors. 


bar# 


The 


4 


467. Fresnel lenses condensors . 
468 . Fuses, fast acting, suitable for diodes and thyris . 

tors . 


489. Insulator for Pollution Control equipment. 


469. Gas lighter elements. 


IN 


70 Glassmetic 
05 II 


(erininnla 


tor 118 ]" #40 


ufr 


190 (nulatrist for nu ram will tears and 

other 1 .a kuipments of rating 400 KY 


471. Glass micro fibre paper filters . 
472 ( last eftir 1 ,5a lapora 


491 . Inverterr. 


17 Keune pominn toll 


* * * 


200 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I SEC . 1] 


Un 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART- I — Contd . 


493 . Lead alloys . 
494 . Lead Glass Tubing . 


518 . Pneumatic /hydraulic equipment (such as pumps, 

motors, cylinders , valves , Accumulators, power 
packs etc .) and components thereof. 


495 . Load scrap including ash , skimming, blowings 

and dresses. 


519 . Polysilicon , single crystal silicon ingots/bars/ 

rods other than metallurgical Grade silicon . 
520 . Point and quantity whcols used in dispensing 

pumps. 


496 . Liſting magnets. 


521. Potentiometers and rheostats — all typos . 


497. Lithographic coated plates. 
498 . (1) Litho rules for perforating 

For printing 
slitting creasing etc. 

( ii ) Anti off-set spray powder . 1 units only . 
499 . Long life batteries for PV application . 
500 . Low wattage, high intensity electrical bulbs 

and tubes for PV application , 


522, Power driven pumps including high prossure 

water Jetting equipment but excluding those 
mentioned in Appendix 3 Part - A . 


501. Mail eyes — for printing units only . 


502 , Metal plates for rotary press. 
503. Micanite insulating materials including V -Rings, 

cones, shells , tubes and separators , 


523 . Pressure and non -pressure pipes and tubes : 

(1) Welded pipes and tubos other than sizes 

ranging above 500 mm OD . 
(11) Seamless alloy and carbon steel pipes and 

tubes 31. 0 mm to 220 mm Including ball 
bearing steel tubos other than those cove 

ced by Appendix 3 Part- A 
524 . Profiles : 

(a ) SKF type I. 
(6 ) Platt Profile typo II. 
(c ) Platt Profile type III. 
(d ) Nose bar 33. 2 mm long made from steel . 
(e) Nose bar dig : NOSKF / 3023 profile. 


504 . Micro motors /brake motors /stepper motors /AC 

motors, upto 20 Watts rating excluding thoso 
for electronic watches , 


505 . Midget carbon electrodes. 
506 . Miniature button cells. 
507. Mirror / reflectors , water cooling filaments and 

associated filaments for carbon arc lamps , 


525. Quartz glass and products thereof. 
526 . Relay , other than time delay relays of all cate 

gories . 


508. Multimesh disc filters (spinneret filters ) and 

elements . 
509 . Necdles for industrial sewing machines. 
510 , (i) Nickel plated steelwire dia 0 .05 mm to 

1 . 5 mm . 
(ii ) Nickel plated silicon Bronzo wire (VERNKO ) 
dia 0 . 05 mm to 1 . 5 mm . 


527 - Rupture Discs 
528 . Selector switches, rotary switches, control swit 

ches , centrifugal switches , wheel switches , single 
or ganged P . C . B . niounting pusb button 

switches , 
529 . Sensors / transducers. 
530 . Servo Motors. . 


511. Nickel cadmium batteries and components , 

parts thereof, 


diffused wafers, 


512 . Non - ferrous alloys, ingots , castings and 

forgings other than those elsewhere specified . 
513 . Non -liner field discharge resistors. 


531. Silicon wafers other than 

Dices, and chips. 


532 . Shock Pulse Meter . 


$ 14 . Phosphor Bronze sheets/ stripe. 


533. Metallurgical grado silicon 
534 . Slip rings for use in rotating electrical machinery . 


515 . Phosphor hronze / Tambao brass wires thinner 

than 30 SWG 


535 . Soda lime glass shells for GLS lamps and tubular 

shells for flourescent tube lamps . 


516 . Plastic oxtruded /moulded /fabricated components 

or products . 
517. Plate /Float Glass. 


536 . Solar absorbers for solar energy equipment. 


[art 1 


] 


भारत का राजपन अमाधारण 


201 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART- 1 - - Conrd . 


$37. Stainless steel fittings , pipes and tubes other 

than those covered by Appendix 3 Part - A 


538. Slar washers and spring washers. 


II. Sub-Systems Group 

(14 ) Centralised automatic lubrication system . 
( 15 ) Refrigeration type air - conditioning system 

for electrical cabinets. 
(16 ) Automatic tool changer. 
(17 ) Auto back gauge units. 


$39 . Steel balls including stainless steel balls . 


540 . Stopper heads and nozzles other than fire 

clay stopper heads and nozzles for integrated 
steel plants. 


II. Tooling Group 

( 18 ) Tool presetting units. 


541. Stranded wirc , cables, cordage , ropes plaited 

boods , lings and alloy iron and steel wire 
excluding insulated clectric wables . 


342 . Surgical rubber good . 


543. Synthetic self - adhesive fastners including hook 

& loop und mushroom type. 


544 . Test films for testing purposes ke SMPTE 

films and other standard films fur 35 mm , 16 mm . 
8 mm super and 8 mm projectors and studio 
recording equipment. 


IV . Hydraulic Group 

(19 ) High torque hydraulic motors. 
(20 ) Hydraulic accumulators. 
(21 ) Counter balancing and unloading hydraulic 

valves. 
V . Monitoring Systems Group 

(22 ) Laser measurement system . 
(23) Adaptive control systems for CNC 

machines. 
(24 ) Tool life and tool breakage monitoring 

systems, 


545. Thermocouples, thermometers including resis 

tance elements and temperature recorders and . 

other related iteras , except clinical thermometers. 
546 . The following items for Automobile Manu - . 

facturers : 
I. Mechanical Group 


(25) Touch sensor probes. 
(26 ) Motion detectors and brake monitors. 


(1) Timing Beta and Timing Pulleys. 
( 2 ) Automatic Indexing Turret including 

rotating tool heads . 
(3) Flexible couplings for ball screws. 
(4 ) Telescopic epiral protection covers for 

ball screws. 
(5 ) Liners for guideway application in the 

form of sheets/compounds. 
(6 ) Recirculating Roller pads for guideways 
(7) V - rings and V -Packings. 
(8 ) Precision face couplings. 
(9 ) Quick setting cement for foundation bolts . 
( 10 ) Pneumatic clutches and brakes or combina 

tion . 
(11) DU bushes of various sizes . 
( 12 ) Feeding systems for prosses and com 

ponents thereof. 
(13) Ball transfers and tolerance rings. 
58 G1/ 85 — 14 . 


VI. Electricals Group 

(27) Controller for DC servomotors. 
(28 ) DC servomotors. 
(29 ) Controller for AC servomotors 
(30 ) AC servomotors. 
(31 ) DC motor for spindle drive, 
(32) AC variable speed motor for spindle 

drive . 
(33) Multi- core flat cables , shielded cables. 
( 34 ) Sealed type limit switches an micro 

switches. 
( 35 ) Stepper motors. 
( 36 ) High stability motor generating sets for 

CNC machine power supply . 


VII. Electronics Group 
( 37 ) Feed back elemonts , synchro resolvers , 

linear scales with or without reading heads 
optical glass scales , infra - red transmitter 
receivers , tachogenerators, linear and 

rotary magnascale . 
(38 ) Magnetic /optical tape readers. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


202 
- - - 


[PART 1-- Seç . 1) 


- 


- G 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART- 1-- - Conid . 


( 39 ) CNC/Precision rotary tables . 
(40 ) Photo electric guards. 
(41) Piano ciectronic type overload safety and 

tonnago indicator. 
347. Timing Belt. 
548 . Titanium and titanium alloy Plpos, today and 

castinge. 
549. Tools, the following : 

(1) Bovel gear cutting tool . 
(2 ) Carbido tipped circular/ segmental saws and 

carbide bure , 
(3 ) Circular Disos for saws. 
(4 ) Coated abrasive belts . 
(5 ) Cutting/forming tools other than thoso 

mentioned in Appendix 3 Part A 
(6) Diamond impregnated saws and segments , 
(7) Gear cutting tools all types , required for 

the manufacture of watches , clook , and 

time pieces . 
( 8 ) Grinding wheels finer than grit 400 , segment 

and other bonded abrasives , all typov 

including hoping/sharpening stones . 
(9) Grooving and shaping cuttors for pencil 

industry . 
( 10 ) Hand tools other than those mentioned in 

Appendix 3 Part A 
( 11 ) Hard metal tools other than those mon 

tioned in Appendix 3 Part - A 
( 12 ) Leather shaving/Skiving/Splitting/ Clicking 

Kaives. 
( 13) Router cutters for engraving . 
( 14 ) Saw blades and Gummer flos required for 

cottonsoed crushing /solvent extraction 

industry . 
( 13 ) Shear blados requlrod by glass Industry 
(16 ) Solid carbide cutting tools. 
(17) Stellite tips and tipped tools. 
(18 ) Thread rolling dies. 
( 19 ) Tricone rock roller bits other than those 

mentioned in Appendix 3 Part - A 
(20) Torque Wrenches and torque meten . 
330 . Typer for typewriters . 
031. Type high numbering machines. 
552 . Vacuum Tube collectors / concentrating collec 

tors for solar energy equipment. 
993. Vibration Detector, 


$ 54 . Welding electrodes. 
555. Wire cloth /sleve cloth, fidencu , above 200 and 

upto 400 mesh . 
356 . Wooden pencil slats , 
557. Components of air - conditioning and refrige. 

ration equipments , the following : 
(1) Expansion valvos above 1. 1/8 " dia . 
(2) Low and high pressure out-outs . 
(3) Solenoid valvęs . 
(4 ) Shut- off valves above 5/8 dia , 

(a ) Rod type thermostats. 
(0 ) Proportional type thermostat , 
(c ) Pneumatic thermostats , 
(d ) Humidistat. 

(e) Modutrol thermostats. 
(5) Evaporation eliminators. 
(6) Float Switches . 
( 7) Mixing Valvon. 
( 8 ) Viation Eliminator. 

(9 ) Liquid -cum -moisture Indicator . 
( 10 ) Modutrol moton . 
(11 ) Heat gas byepass valve and hot heat bygas 

bypass valve . 


558 . Components of tractors and combine harvestors . 


959 . Components of hearing alde , the following 1 

(1) Transistor type BC1460 and their PNP 

complementarles . 
( 2 ) Transistor type BC 109 B . P ./B . O . 109 P . 
(3 ) Transistor type B . O . 200 . 
(4 ) Transistor type AC 129 (B 30 — 400 ) 
( 5) Double Dlodes IS 1011 S . 
(6 ) Integrated circuit- UPO 12 G . 
(7) Electrolytic capacitors .1 mfd . to 100 mfd . 

(less than 11 . 5 som in length ) 
(8 ) Ceramic capacitors . 
(9 ) Resistors of longth less than 6 mm and power 

rating less than 0 .25W . 
(10 ) Microphones for hearing alda 
( 11) Bar-phones for hearing alds . 
( 12) PCB mountable transformon 
(13) Printed circuit boards. 
(14) Low Voltago Audio Amplifier IC s of 

typo Nos . 552 , 505 . 


[HTT11 ] 


भारत का राजपा अमाधारण 


203 


AM 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART I- Conid . 


machine 
othe bles), cents 


560 Components of time pieces , the following 

(1) Hair springs 
(1 ) Balance stuff 
( III) Balance hearing screv .. 

(tv ) Pias (pins for balance and levers ). 
56 ). All components , of machine tools , machinery, 

equipments , instrument and other Engineering 
items, ( including consumer durables), covered 

under OGL excluding electronic components. 
362. Hair spring for clocks and Time-pieces. 
363. Plastic Gear for analogue Quartz clocks and 

time- pieces . 
564 . Undercarriage parts of crawler tractors and 

other earthmoving machineries . 
563. Electronic items (other than those in Appendix 

3 Part- A ) 
( 1) Cathode Ray tuhes other than those in 

Appendices 3 Part- A and 5 Port- A . 
(2) Connectors, 
(3) Drafting aids for Printed circuit board 
(4 ) EHT cables for T . V , deflection components 

and flat / flat flexible cablos other than those 

for T . V . antennas connections. 
(5) Colour T. V . Picture Tube having the fol 

lowing specifications : 
1 . Size 

51 Cm ( 20 inchcs) 
2 . Neck diameter 29 mm 
3. Deflection angle 90°. 
4. Electrongun Precision -in - line, 

three gun system , 
5. Screen 

Black matrix /seg 
mented Vertical 

Stripes 
6 . Maximum EHT 25 kV 
II . Deflection Yoke ( Typical Valucs ) 
1. Horizontal Coil 1. 9mH + 5 % 

inductance. 
2 . Horizontal Coil 2 . 2 Obms + 10 % 

resistance . 
3 . Vertical Coil 28 . 50H + 10 % 
Inductance . 

OR 

110mH + 10 % 
4 . Vertical Coil 14 Ohms + 10 % 
resistance . 

OR 

56 ohms + 10 % 
(6 ) (1) Electrolytic Capacitors other tbao 

those mentioned in App . 3 - Part A , 
( 11 ) All types of Plastic film capacitors 

( 111) All types of Corumic capacitor , 
( ) Key Board switches . 


( 8 ) Level Metei /Level indicator / Flouroscent 

peak -level meter / Tuning Indicator/ Batte 
Ty Meter /VU Müter with sensitivity bel 
ween 100 to 500 micro amperes and 
internal resistance between 600 to 

2000 olim3. 
( ) Loud speakers (cone typo ) below 2 
( 10 ) Lead Tabs for paddle Tabs. 
( 11) Magnetic sound head , 
( 12 ) Microphone cartridges 
(13 ) Paper cones for loudspeakers — all types 

including paper cones with or without rolls / 

braiding . 
( 14 ) Pcizo Electric Elements . 
(15 ) Printed circuit boards other than those 

in Appendix 3 Part - A 
( 16 ) Servo systems, thyristor controls, and 

NC /CNC systems for machine tool 

industry 
(17) RF transistors of the following types for 

TV Tuners : 
(a ) 2SC 605 , 2SC 606 , 2SC 287A , 2SC 

288A ; 
(7 ) 2SC 1856 , 2SC 1906 , 2SC 717 ; 
(c) 25C 1393 , 25C 1394 , 2SC 1395 ; 
( d ) 2SC 3122 /2SC 3123/2SC 3124 ; 
(e) KSC 1393A /KSC 1394A /KSC 1395A ; 
o 2SC 1779, 2SC 1778, 2SC 1687 ; 
(8 ) 25C 1779, 2SC 1778, 2SC 1687, 25C 

1730 ; 
(h ) MTSH 34 , MTH 6543, MMT 3904 . 
Switches, all typos , other than those in 
Appendlı 3 Part-A 
Synchroni 
23 O . 45 
23 CD X 4b 
23 CT4b 

23 T X 40 
(20 ) Tantalum capacitors other than those in 

App . 3 - Part A . 
(21) Tapo deck mechanism other bad those in 

Appendix 3 Part- A 
(22 ) Tone arm complete (excluding pick - ap 

oartridges) with hydraulic cucing. 
( 23 ) Thermistor (PTC and NTC including start 

devices ). varlsters . 
(24 ) Components of Vidco cassette (C - 0 ). 
(23) Video magoetic tape in rolls , pan cakes 

Jumbo rolks , all forms, cxcluding video 

cassettes 
(26 ) Wave wraps and coupling , capacitors for 

powerline carrier communication oqulr 
dent 


204 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I - Sec . 11 


VEL 


- 


- - 


- 


T 


IS 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART- 1 - Contd . 


(27) Phenolic /SRBP/ Ceramic bases/ substrate. 
(28 ) Conductive /resistive compositions. 
(29 ) Turned parts like spindle, BC pins. 
( 30 ) Pressed parts liko tags, wipers. 
(31) Casings either die cast, pressed moulded . 
(32 ) Special springs . 
( 33 ) Moulded parts for multiple pots . 
(34 ) Sealing materials. 
(35) Resistive /conductive inks. 
(36 ) Contacts in various shapes including 

carbon and precision metals. 
(37) Contact carriers . 
( 38 ) O Rings. 
( 39 ) Resistance wires of various specificiation 

other than those included in Appendix 

3 Part- A . 
(40 ) Formers for winding like insulated copper 

wires and phenolic. 
(41) Ceramic bases. 


(99 ) Aluminium casings/cans for electrolytic capa 

citors . 
(60 ) Integrated circuits excluding those specifically 

covored under App . 3A . 
(61) Silicon Diodes of types— Fast recovery, schotky , 

pindiode varicaps, microwave, temperaturo 
compensated , Zeners with voltages above 100 
volts switching diodes with switching timo less 

than 300 nanosec or 600 reverse voltago. 
(62 ) Silicon Rectifiers of types - Avalanche , Fast 

recovery with voltage rating above 1000 volts. 
(63) Thyristors with voltage rating above 1000 volts 

or invertor grado types with fast turn off time 
below 50 microsec . 


(64 ) Triaces and SCRS, of sensitive gate types with 

gate current less than 3 milliamps, or Gate 
controlled turn off types, or with voltage ratings 
between 8 KV to 20 KV. 


Frequenc abovesistors with 


(65) Silicon Transistors with collector to omittor 

voltage above 100 volts, or cut off / Transition 
Frequency above 500 MHR , or matched pairs , 
or with switching time below 25 nanosec. for 
NPN and 100 nanosec for PNP , or Medium 
Power Transistors with Power rating above 50 
watts or High Power Transistors of Power 
rating above 125 watts. 


( 42 ) Contacts of metals, carbons and combia 

tion thereof. 


(43) Pressed components. 


(44 ) Tinged components. 
(45) Epoxy paints . 
(46 ) Epoxy thinner. 
(47) Epoxy hardner. 
(48 ) Polypropylene / Polyester film 

lised ). 


(66 ) Components for Hybrid micro -circuits , the 

following : 
(1) Diodes Transistors and integrated circuits 

in 50T 2B packages or on leadless chip 

Carriers. 
( II ) Chip resistors . 

(tli ) Chip capacitors. 
(67) Solder Plated brass strips upto 100mm width , 


(plain /metal 


(49 ) Copper beryllium formed products , 


(68) Solid carbido and composite drills and Routers 

for P . C . B . manufacture . 
(69) Following components of colour T . V . sets 

production : 


( 50 ) Copper wire /strips (Oxygen free types). 
(51) Graphite jigs. 
(52 ) Laminations /strips of Mu-metal/Radio 

metal. 
( 53 ) Litz wirc /Rayon Covered copper wire . 
(54) KOVAR and alloys of Nickel- Iron / 

cobalt in all forms. 
(55) Self adhesive tapes all types. 
(56 ) Ammonium -DI-Hydrogen Phosphate. 


(a ) Line output transformers/ EHT Trans 

formers for colour T. V . Receivers above 
36 cms and above 20 KV (with or without 
focus potentiometer). 


(0 ) High voltage focus pot. 
(c) Internal degausing coil. 
(d ) Laminance delay line. 
(e) Chrominace delay line . 
W T. V . Picture Tube socket/CRT Socket. 
(8 ) SAW Filter. 


(57) Rubber bungs/ seals /Discs . 
(58 ) Silica quartz fillers, 


[m1- 41] 


205 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - - - - - - - 


भारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 
- - - -- - - - - - - -- - = 
APPENDIX O LIST 8 PART-I - - Cond, 


(h ) Ceramic Filter/Trap . 
( ) Fusible resistor. 


366 . The following raw materials , components 40d 

consumables - -made for clectronic industry appli 
cation -- if importod by an Actual User (Indus 
trial) holding a manufacturing licence /Registra 
doo Certificate for electronic items |- - 


(J) (a ) (1) Transistors 


SC 


1098 
381 


SD 


(1) Audio Cassette Liner/Slip 

paper sheet. 


Sheet /silicon 


382 


SD 
SB 
SB 


536 

537 
diodes of voltage 


(ii) Transcient Supression 

greater than 50 volts. 


(b ) For General purpose : 


Chemicals and allied items including moulding 
compounds and alloys appearing in Appendix 

3 Part- A . 
(3) EHT cable for TV deflection components. 
(4) Electric resistance (nickel-chromium based ) 

wires, viro rods, rods and strips. 
(5) Glass preforms. 


Diodes with voltage greater than 100 volts , 
surge current rating greater than 20 Amps, 
and rise time less than 800 nano seconds. 


(70 ) Resistive Plate . 


) Gold preforms for semiconductor industry. 


(71) Resistive Arrays. 
(72 ) Resistors (other than heating resistors) Poten 

tiometers and switches. 


) Gold boton dots . 
(8) Gold /Antimony discú. 


of rating 8 KV to 


(73 ) H . V . Silicon Rectifiers 

20 KV. 
( 74 ) Computer Magnetic 

ridge . 


9 ) Gold /silver flashed /alloyed plated contacts 

for piece -parts for relays and switches . 
(10 ) Heat sinks for semiconductor industry . 
(11) High purity gold bonding wire for somi 

conductor industry . 


Tapes / Cassettes/Cart 


(12 ) Lead acid storage batteries. 


(13) Low pitch phillip head screws used in cassetto 

industry . 


( 14 ) Lubricating solvent/MCCP Fluid , 
(15 ) Magnetic Shield . 


( 75) Magnetic Disk Packs/ Cartridges. 
(76 ) Printer Ribbon. 
(77 ) Computer manuals and training material lo 

the form of pamphlets /microfische/microfilms. 
(78 ) Winchester Driver. 
( 79) Calculator clips. 
(80 ) Components /Modules of electronic watches, 

the folloving : 
(a ) Complcte electronic 

modules/ electronic circuit 
blocks for electronic 
watches and clocks of all 

types. 
(0 ) Following components of 

eloctronic vatches , clocks 
and time plecos (both for For Semi 
digital and analoguo) . Conductor 
( ) Large Scalo loto Complex 

grated circuits ) Limited (SCL ) 
devices / chips, all only . 
typer, for us iu 
watches, clocks und 

timo ploces. 
(11) Liquid crystal die 

play . 
( 11 ) Quartz crystal, 
( iv ) Stopper motor, 


(16 ) Manganese nickel strips gold plated . 
(17) Nickel and nickel based alloys and won basod 

super alloys , ( including inconels , incoloys, 
aimonics, hastalloys & udimets ) in the form of 
ingots, blooms, billets, slabs, bars, rounds 
rods, wiros, platcs , sheets & strips, 


(18) Pressuro Pad . 


( 19 ) PTFB / Teflon / Fluod / Teflon - FEP / Teflon - PFA / 

Tefzel-PTFB Tapos mou Sleoving . 
(20 ) PTFB Pigmcat/PTFE Stripping ink , 


(21) PVC Sleeves , 


(22 ) 


elcniun metal of purity 99 . 999 % or abovo . 


( 43 ) Scrap Tapes / Slocvius of PTFE / Tetlog /Fluon / 

Tefin.FĒP, Teflon -PBA / Tefzel-PTBE , 


206 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART I - Sec . 11 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART-I - - Conid . 
( 24 ) Silicon/Silicone based varnishes/grcase /motr 

(15 ) Componeots of Draw 
ture resistants . 

Frames, the following : 


Prames /Specd 


(25) Threading taps 1. 6 mo dia and above 


( ) Hapk Indicators / Shin Counters. 


(26 ) Tin coated /plated 

copper ply wire . 


copper 


wire 


including 


(11 ) Top Rollers for drafting system . 


(til ) High Drafting System 

man -made fibres . 


for cotton / 


567 . Components of textile machinery other than jute 

and hemp : 


(1) Ward gauges. 


( Iv ) Helical fluted roller, 


(16 ) Componenes of Ring Frames, the following : 


(2) Flat and round comber needles 


( ) Jockey Pulleys. 


(3) Garnet wire . 


(11 ) High Drafting systems for cotton / 

man -mado fibre Ring Frames Including 
components thereof. 


(4 ) Punching card rolls for texule machinery 


(5) Cylinders for non -stoker plalo web machine 

26 gauge and above . 


( ill) Hank Indicators /Shift counter . 


(Iv ) Spindle Inserts of dla 10 mm and abovo 


(6) Cylinders for sinker body machine of 26 

gauge and above. 


(o) Top Rollers for drafting system . 


( 7) Nordles for hoslery /knitting machines 


(v1) Rings for Ring frames and doubling 

frames and Ring travellers other than 
those required for cotton toxtilor . 


(8) Compunents of hund operated flat bed 

knitting machines. 


( 17 ) Components of combers /Lap Former / 

Ribbon Lap /Silver Lap , the following 1 


(9) Wrapper cloth for decatstag machines . 


Hank Indicators /Shift Counders. 


( 10 ) Mono filament carrier blankets for cloth 

printing for rotary flat bed screen printing 

machines. 
(11) Woollen felts for felt calendering machines 

Shrioking range , 


( 18 ) Doup bealds and healds for alr /water 

jet looms and other shuttleless loomas 


( 19 ) Components of hand knitting machinos . 


(12) Components of fully autunnalla 

feeding type blow room mucblocıy . 


chuk 


(20 ) Shurch blocks (Wooden ). 


(21) Card clothing for Woollen /Wonod waste 

cards. 


( 13 ) Componcnt of high producitun curds wilt. 

Tocding chuto auto leveller /auto can changer 


( 14 ) The followiąg items for inunulucture not 

Revolving Flat Carding Engines for cotton 
MAD -mado fibre . 


568. Othoi components of loulo maschtoo not 

covered by Appendix 3 Part- A (oxcluding 
components of machincs appearing jo Appen 
diz | Part - B ). 


(1 ) Licker -ir - ayra , and 


569. Any 11cm boving enviber chemical name or 

synonym , but of the name pature , as any of 
the items covered by this List . The synonyms 
mcotoned in this chatry refer only to those of 
chemical and allied irina 


(1 ) All typer icubic Meccellle care 

clothing and tops. 


[ RT IUT 1] 


भारत का राजपन्न , असाधारण 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


207 
-- 


- 


- 


_ 


_ 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- - - - 


- - -- 


- 


-- - -- 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART I Concld . 


IRON AND STEBL AND PERRO ALLOYS 


$ 84 . Profilo soctions for engineers filos and rasps. 


Carbon Stoel Items 
570 . All grades of carbon stoel wiras not clsewhero spooliled , 


585. Shoots/ strips / coilg - hot rolled /cold rolled in all grados 

of alloy steel (excluding stainless /heat resisting / high speed 
stools ) not alsowhere statod . 


571. Profilo Sections for engineers Ales and rasps . 


572 . Putomotive rim bara, flange bars and lock ring soctions . 


586. (a ) Cold rolled stainless steel strips in colls of width 5 . 00 – 

22. 40 mm x thickness 0 . 10 0 . 13 mm for razor blades . 


573. Platos /shocts/strips /colls coatod with lead or an alloy of 

tip and load ( Tornc plato ). 


(b ) Stainless /heat resisting steel strips/flats confoming 

to AISI 303 and 304 in width below 41 nmn and in thiok 
ness below 10 mm for manufacture of watch cases . 


574 . Hardened and tompored High Carbon (carbon 0. 6 % and 

abovo) stol strips for other tban saw blades /cutting tools. 


575 . Railway wheels/tyres/axles /wheel scts, 
576. Wide flange beam and Teo Section . 


(c ) Stainless /heat resisting stool gtrips conforming to AISI 

304 and 316 in width below Simm and in thickness 

below 0 .4 mm for manufacturo of pen nibs, 


577. ARMCO Soft Iron Platos . 


(d ) Stainless stocl strips conforming to AISI 304 in thick 

noss 0 . 233 to 0 . 314 mm and widtb 75mm max . for manu 
facture of watch strap . 


578 . Copper coated Cold Rollod _ Low Carbon Steel Strips for 

manufacture of Bundy Tubes . 


387, Loaded froe cutting stool wiro rods (including specificatiogs 

which contain both load and high sulphur in tho samo spocl 
fication ). 


579 . Ship Bullding quality plates conforming to Lloyds grados 

B / C / D / E . 


588 . Leaded fro : cutting steal fats /hoxagons/ octagona /rounds/ 

rods (including specifictions which contain both lead and 
bigh sulphur in the campo specification ). 


Claddod sod compoulto steel 
580 . Cladded / composito sloobs to any category / form /sbape / elzo 

with iron content 50 % or moro by wolght. 


Alloy Stoel ltom in all grado 
581 . Alloy stool wires In all grades other than stainless /hoat 

rosisting stoel of sizes thinner than 0 . 46 mm dia (26 SWG) 
mot olgowhero spocifiod . 


Ferro Alloys 
589 , ferro alloys to form other than powder fomi as undert 

(a) Ferro -Sllico -Ziroconlum 
(b ) Forro Pbosphorous 
(c) Ferro Manganese with cashou less than 0 .1 % . 
(d ) Ferro Chrome with carbon loss than 0 .03 % . 


582 . Stainless boat roslatlog stoel wires of size thlonor than 0 , 31 

om dia (30 SWG ) but excludlog wires in copper /tin coated 
condition . 


583 . Sboet bars /rody excluding counds of 10 mm dia and above ! 

hoxa goDB / octagons / lats / structural sections of all grados of 
alloy stools . -- pot olsowboro stated . 


590 . All Ferro Alloys in powder form excluding Ferro 

alud Powdor . 


Tita 


208 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1- SEC , 1] 


B - I - - - - 


- - 


FISIWG . 


APPENDIX 6 , LIST 8 , PART II 


Itoms allowed for Import by Actual Uson ( Induoll) sabjat tu noulCwr conditon , and export Hounou /Tadiny Houses 
Against REP / Add /too louces as per policy for sale to cugiblo Actual Uvan ( Industrial) subject to Aptual Dior Condition : 


1. Acotic Acid . 
2 , Acetic Anhydride. 
3 . Acrylic moulding powder , 
4 , Alloy stcels in any form /shape/ section , 
3 . Ammonium persulphate and potassium persulphate. 


0 . Aluminium glycinate, 
7. Aluminium wire/ stype of purity 99 . 99 % 
8 . Bating Material, 
9 . Base paper for waxing/ impregnating/coating ---iocluding sensitising base paper. 
10. 4 :4 Benzidine, 2 :2 disulphonic ucld . 
11. Botahydroxy Naphthoic acid (Bon acid ). 
12 . Bisphenol- A . 
13. Black Contored Board , 
14 . Bloaching powder and hypo shlorites. 
15 . C . Acid (2-chloro-5 -toludine-4-sulphonic Acid ) and its salts . 
16 . Carbon Paper. 
17 . Caustic soda . 
18 Chicago Acid / Salt . 
19. corkwood , cork waste and cork dust and cork powder of 200 mesh . 
20 . Components of DC micro motors /stopper motors /servo motoru / 

AC synchronous motors (including brush and commerlator assembly ) of raling upto 13 .5 Volts and 20 watts . 
21. Components of relays connecton and switobom 
22. Crepe Paper. 
23. Drawing Paper. 
24. Drugs /Drug lotermediates. 
25, Dyo jutormediates 
26 . Ethyl glyool 
27 . Eucalyptus gun chips . 
28. Filtor & Sell crocuer for nincs. 
29 , Flouroscent Pigronts . 
30 . Flint buttons excluding thoso appearing in App . 2 t urt H . 
31. G . Salt. 
32. Gamma acid /salt . 
33 . Goranlun oll 
34. Glas , capillary tubing for thermometers . 
35. Glassine/groase proof/parchmont paper cxcluding verotable parcbicoot and glassino glease proof papxer less than 30 gr 
36 . Glues consisting of a mixturo of rubber organic solvents , fillers, vulcanising agent and rosina 
37. Graphic Art Films. 
38 . H . Acid /Salt . 
39. High grade molybdenum ore, Molybdepun metai fucluding scrap. 

Molybdlo oxide. Molybdenuo oxide , Molybdenum powdor. 
40 . Jodine , 


41. Ivory unmanufacturod . 


(97811 


भारत का राजपत्र : मसाधारण 


209 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART II.- - Conta . 


42 . Iosoctiedo , pesticida und vecdicide . 
43. L . Base (Aminodisl ). 
44 . Lithopono 
45, Mad - dado fibrosivuros (Orthor Iban those in Part I and III.) 
46 . Morcory /acroury ammoniatod . 
47. Methyl Bromido. 


48 Methyl chlorosilanes such ag 1 

(1) Dimethyl dichlorosijane 


( II) Methyl troblorostlane 


(W ) Tomctbyl chlorosllant. 
( Iv) Octamethyl cycle tetralloranes . 

(v ) Hoxamethyl disiloxane , 
49, Murorive components of all typos . 
50 . Napthalene crude 
51. Natural essential oils 
52, Nitric acid 
33. Non -comcot asbestos products othor than asbestos Jointing sheet. 
34. Non - Wovon Alter media, dust catcher bags and non- woven Alter panels. 
55 . Perchloro borroto neid 
56 . Pan alloro tolwege. 
87. Panu mrtiary butyi promet 
58 Phenol. 
59 . Phosphorous sodd . 
60 . Poplorby uid (olbat this loci iamy . . . 
61, Plton . 
62 . Plata /monalized Condeopor tasa depur. 
63. Ptala /metallised capucher la papar 
64 . Plato /owillied Craft/TWW DAD . 
63 Polyorboaan ( Thørmopludonw memelimlar 
66. Polycarbonate moulding powder/graoulas. 
67. Polypropylono. 
68 . Potagsluro Chlorate . 
19 . Potagalum forro -oyanldo. 
YO . Pressod /pubchod metal parto god die-cant parts for Tape Dak Mechanim 
11. Procaino Hydrochloride. 
12 . PIFU Pabria /felt/throadı. 
13 . PVC Rolne. 
14 . Badashovoun . 
75. Raw vo01/Greasy wool, scoured co01 ( no1 cArdod or combed )/angorå 1000 hals (mohair). 
76 Shollac /Sead lac. 

n , Soda Ai. 
18 . Solvente . 
19, Stainles/hcal rosløting stool wiros of arzo thinner than 30 SWG lo copper/ tip coatod condition . 
80 . Styronc /Styrono Monomer . 
81. Sucoloyl Suoclosto . 
82 . 20 % oil costod sulphur, lauludlog aryat . 1 / proluble qulphar . 


210 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I - Sec . 1] 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART 11 - Coneld . 


83. Synthetic rubber viz . Butyl rubber, Silicon rubber, Noopropo /chloroprono, Hypalon , Vlton, Bromobutyl , Chlorobutyl, PTFB 100 

E . P . D . M . 
84 . Synthotic Yollow Iron Oxide. 
85 Tartarıc aond 
86 . Tip foil . 
87. T . P . A . 
88 Tracloy paper. 
89 . Trichloromonofluoro - metbanc ( fluorocarbon refrigenant H ), 

Dichlorodifluoro - methane (fluorocarbon refrigerant-12). 
Dichloromonofluoro - mothano (Aurocarbon refrigenant-21). 

Mono chlorodifluro - methane (Aurocarbon refrigerant-22 ), and mixtures thereof. 
90 . Tungsted Disc / Tunpaten Contact 
91 . Tungsten salto . 
92 . Vitamin P . (Rutio ). 
93 . Zloc wlro of 99 .99 % purity 


Appendix 6 , Lbst 8 , Part III 


ſtoms allowed for Import by Actual Uners, and others for stock and sale :-- 
1. Alumlolum Krap /Dron . 
2. Brau scrap / Ash /Drou 
3. Casoin based glazlogs and dressings for leatber finishing 
4 . Copper sotap /coppor mill scal . 
5 . Tlo drow / Ash /Rolduc und Tio alloy /Raiduoe. 
6 . Zloc scrap /Zinc alloy scrap / Anb /Drow . 
7. Nickel Silver Scrap (Gorman Silver Scrap). 
8 . Pickled hides , skins where the value of hidas and skins is more thao that of wool/hair thercon . 
9 . Watulo Bark for tannlog leather. 
10 . Watte Bxtract . . 
11. Pickled hide , tkins, polus , puts and parts thereof 
12 . Hidas aod kina, av or altod vbero the value of hides and skins is more than that of wool/hair thereon . 
13. Wet Blue Chrono lanned crust and finished leatber locluding splia & aldos. 
14 . Floppy Diskette/media . 
15 , Quobrucho extract, cbasinul extract and moditied eucalyptur extract (Myrtao ). 
16 . Oyun Arabio . 
17. Viscos blamont yaro bolos ) donner 


18 . Cupramnopluip Hilla (nool year and Acctate Filament Yarn ( first quality) 


19 . Ceramic fibro. 
20 . Carbon fibre . 
21 . Polyacotal rola 
22 . Polymethyl motbacrylato plastic ophthalmk blanks. 
23. Poly - totraduoroethylope rain , 
24 . Poly carboosto rosto , 
25. Sahem wood /timhor logs . 


[ 977 1 - 


1 ] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


211 


APPENDIX 6 . LIST 8, PART- III - Concld . 


26 . Siyrone acrylic citrile regin , 
17 Polyurethane resin . 
28 . Glass shells for TV picture tubes. 


19 . Chrome metal. 
30 . Laathor finishing auxiliaries - fillers, Decotrators and slip agents 
31 . Manganese metal. 
32. Magnestum metal 
11. Silver paste/ silver powder suspension . 
34. Threaded heelnails for leather . 


35. Vanadluto metal, 


36 . Throad lockor . 
37. Adhesive sealants . 
38 . Rotaining Compound , 
39 . Flange Sealants . 
40 . Pipe Sealants . 
41. Iffstant adhesive. 
13 . Multi-cable transit (cable /pipe scaling system ). 
13. Tungsten motal. 
4 . loomar Rosin . 
45. Luo Propyl antipyrido . 
46. (a ) PMMA + Silicoo (Poly -Mohyl Mothacrylato + Silicon ) for making Gai polmoable coatact lupa . 

(b) HEMA or Poly Homa (Poly 2 Hydroxy Ethyl Methacrylate ) for making soft contact london . 


NOTES : 


(1 ) It is olarfod ibat entries in this Liye ( Part I . Purt Il And Part III) alloy only those items and their specifications , ofzo , 

typos , varieties , compostiils, carrgoring etc, as are covered under Opon General Lloonoo for Actual Uson (Industrial) 
vide itoms 1 and 2 of Appendix 6 i. e . tho items or their spoclAcations otc , which do not appear lo Appendicot 2 to 400 
8 , Including those having anothor Chemical Name or synonym , but of the same nature , as any of the items covered lp theo 

Appoodicos , road with the carifications contained lo Chaptor II of this Book , 
(2) Impjit of religious bjoks shall not be allowed as waste paper under entry No. 261 Part I above. 
(3 ) Entry N . 118 In Part I above does not apply to dye Intermediales. Their import will be regulated in the norms] 

manner, 1.6., such dye intermedia cs as are not individually mentioned , by their own names , in this Appendix shall 
be regulated by the entries in Appendix 3 Part-A or 3 Part- A , as the cik roay bo, by eligible Actual Users 
(Industrial) 


212 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I - SEC . 1] 


1111 - IT 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


ISH 


LISA 


- - - 


- - - 


APPENDIX 6 Concld . 


Lise 9 
List of Ophthalmic Equipmcat/Instrument 


1 . Projection magnifier for contact lens Inspection verificadoo . 
2. Contact lense gauge microscope (for measurement of curvature of contact longo ) 
3 . Lenfometer (contact lenses boldar). 
4, Stereo zoom microscope for inspoction of contact lensa 
3 . Eye sight testing machine (automatic ). 
6 . Softometer for measurement of the base curve of soft contact lens . 
1. Automatic refractomctor. 
8 . Completo refraction unit with phropter (sight toster). 
9. Automatic visual field soreener, 
10 . Viscoscope . 
11. Tonometer of tension for recording intraoccular prossure (tonsion ). 
12 . Keratometer ( ophthalmometer). 
13 . Low visual alds set ( with iclescopic glasses for cbecking the poor sight). 
14. Halogen slit lamp microscope with applantation and photographio capability . 
15. Halogen ophthalmoscope . 
16 . Streak retidoscope . 
19. Spot retinoscope . 
18 . Indirect monocular ophthalmoscope . 
19 . Indirect Binocular ophthalmoscope . 
20 . Long thickness measuro gauge ( Caliper). 
21 . Sagordeters . 
22. Lensometer ( Focimeler ) 
23 . Leds analyser . 
24 . Projecto -market. 
23. Vitrectomy machine, 
26 . Membrarle pealer . 
27 Argon laser, 
28 . Krypton laser. 
29. Xenon arc photocoagulator. 
30 . Fluorsoeln angiograpby equipoent including fuddus camera , 
31 . Ultra souod scaner, 
32 . Intraoccular lenses. 
33 . Loe visual aids for handicapped (acrylic plastic lcrisos for cataract people (cboap ). 


[411 I - 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


213 


APPENDIX 7 

OPEN GENERAL LICENCE NO . 4 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA , MINISTRY OF 

( c ) the following decouments shall be pro 
COMMERCE - - OPEN GENERAL LICENCE 

duced to the satisfaction of the customs 
NO . 4 / 85 dt. 12th April, 1985 . 

authorities , at the time of clearance of 

the replacement goods : 
In excercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of 

(i) original letter from the foreign sup 
the Imports and Exports ( Control) Act, 1947 ( 18 of 

plier as evidence of goods being 
1947 ), the Central Government gives general per 
mission for importation of the goods specificd below 

supplied free of cost , in the case of 

free replacement ; 
from any country in the world , except the Union of 
South Africa and South - West Africa - 

( ii ) a survey certificate issued by the 

Lloyds Agents or ether authorised 
. (1) Re- import of items after repairs abroad , 

insurance surveyors or in the case 
subject to the satisfaction of the Customs 

ofmachine or parts thercof, a certi 
authority that the item re - imported is the 

ficate from a professional 
same which was sent abroad for repairs ; 

independent Chartered Engineer , 
( 2 ) Freo gift of trade catalogues and circulars 

or Chief Exccutive in the case of 

Government Departments and pub 
upto a valuc of Rs . 2 ,000 ; 

lic sector undertakings, to the effect 
(3) Blue prints and drawings (including micro 

that goods previously imported were 
films) relating to machinery and plant sites , 

actually received in defective condi 
work and building , research data , supplied 

tion and required replacements 
froe of charge and having no commercial 

( It ) evidence showing the period of 
value 

guarantee given by the foreign manu 
( 4 ) Bonafide technical and trade samples supplied 

facturers or consignors in the case 

of machines or parts thereof, where 
free of charge not exceeding Rs. 20, 000 in 

shipment takes place after the period 
c .i. f. value , in one consignment, excepting 

of 24 months stipulated in sub 
vegetable seeds, bees , 108 and new drugs 

clause (a ) above ; 
( 5) Bonafide advertising material suplied free of 

( iv) evidence of settlement of claim by tho 
charge not exceeding Rs. 2 .000 in c .i.f . value , 

Insurance company, in the case of 
in one consignment ; 

roplacement import involving fresh 
(6 ) Goods supplied frec of charge by foreign 

remittances. This will , however, not 
suppliers or imported against an insurance 

be necossary in the case of Govern 
(marine) or marine -cum -erection insurance 

ment Departments, provided foreign 
claim settled by an Insurance Company , 

exchange has heen released by the 
in roplacement of the goods previously 

Ministry of Finance (Department 
ported but found defective or otherwise 

of Economic Affairs )/ Administrative 
fit / unsuitable for uso or lost/damagod after 

Ministry to cover tho amount to be 

rcmitted . Replacement imports will 
port, provided that i 

bo allowed upto the valuo of tho 
the shipment of replacement goods is 

claim settled by the insurance com 
made within 24 months from the date of 

pany with Do incroase in quantity : 
clearance of the previously imported 

but an Increase upto ton percent of 
goods through the Customs or within the 

this amount may be allowed owing 
guarantoo period in the case of machines 

to the jocrcase lo the valuo of tho 
or parts thereof, whore such period is 

machinery to be imported in 
more than 24 months , 

replacomopt. 


;) No remittance shall be allowod , except 

for payment of insurance and freight 
charges where the replacement of goods 
by the foreign suppliers li subject to the 
payment of insurance and /or freight by 
the importer and documentary evidenco 
to this effect is produced at the time of 
making tho remittanco 


(7 ) Drugs and medicines supplied free of charge 

for clinical trials with the prior written ap 
proval of the Drugs Controller of India , Now 
Delhi and subject to any conditions laid down 
by him . The approval of the Drugs Controller 
shall be produced to the satisfaction of 
the customs authorities at the time of clear 
ance , 


214 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I - SEC . 1 ] 


APPENDIX 7 – Concld . 


the said Act, tu bc produced to the satis 
faction of the customs authorities at the time 
of clearance 


(8) Bonafide trade samples of drugs and medici 

nes supplied free of charge to the sole agents in 
lodia of the foreiga suppliers , not exceeding 
Rs. 10 ,000 in c.l. f. value in one consignment 
on the written recommendation of the Drugs 
Controller of India , New Delhi to be produced 
to the satisfaction of the customs authorities 
at the time of clearance ! 


( 12 ) lo respect of items covered by SI Nos . (6 ) 

to ( 10 ) above , where the items are supplico 
free of charge , imports of the permissible 
material shall not be allowed in consumer or 
retail packing and the consignment shall be 
clearly marked " sample pot for sale " 


( 9 ) Human vaccines and sora supplied froo of 

charge or against payment, on the written 
recommendation of the Drugs Controller of 
India , New Delhi to be produced to the satis 
faction of the customs authorities at the time 
of clearance ) 


( 13) Trade catalogues and circulars , blue prints 

and drawings, and technical or trade samples 
imported under this licence are for the use of 
the importers themselves and shall not be 
sold , or transferred otherwisc ; 


( 10 ) Animal including poultry vaccines, supplied 

free of charge or against payment, on the 
specific rocommendation of the Animal 
Husbandry Commissioner to the Govern 
ment of India , Now Delhi, to bo produced 
to the satisfaction of the customs authorities 
at the time of clearance ; 


(14 ) This licence, is without prejudice to the appli .. 

cation to any goods, of any other prohibition 
or regulation affecting the import that may be 
io force at the time when such goods are 
imported , 


(11) Technical and trade samples of the Inaccu 

cides ( including pesticides and wecdicides). 
tupplied free of charge , on the basis of the 
registration issued by the Registration 
Committee set up under the lasecticides Act 
1968 and the quantity spocified by the Com 
mittee, in respect of items included in the 
Schodule to the Insecticides Act, 1968, and 
on the written approval of the Plant Protection 
Advisor to the Government of Lodia in cor 
poct of items not locluded in the Schedule to 


(15) The licence does not confer any immunity , 

excmption or relaxation at any time from 
an obligation or compliance with any require 
ment to which tho Actual Users (Industrial) 
may be subject to under other laws or 
regulations. The importers should comply 
with the provisions of all other laws appli . 
cable to them ; and 


This licence is in supersession of Opco 
General Licence No. 4 / 84 published vide 
Import Trade Control Order No . 5 /84 
dated the 12th April, 1984 . 


(ANTI- O 1 ] 


भारत का राजपत : असाधारण 


215 


APPENDIX 8 


SCIENTIFIQ AND ME ABURING INSTRUMENTS 


PART A 


CCCN 
Code 


ITC R .2 

Code 


CCCN 
Code 


NSC 


90 . 16 


874 . 2103 
NSC 


90 . 16 
NSC 


Itcome restricted for Import : 
(1) Spring caliper and dividers , 
(2) Surface plato /Anglo plato 
(3) Plungor typo dlal Indicators , dial 

Instruments and lever typo dial 
lodicator of aocuracy 0 . 01 mm , or 
less accurate 


ITC R .2 

Code 
(18 ) Micro ficho reador. 

NSC 
(19 ) All types of micrometers other than 
height micrometers . 

874 . 2103 
(20 ) Counting chambers and Haoma 
cytometers. 

872 . 0204 
(21) Go-No-Go plain and scrow gaugas. 874 . 21 
(22) Vernier depth gauges . 

874 .3009 
(23) Vernier holgbt gauges. 

874 .2109 
(24) Cylinder bore gauges. 

874 .2109 
(25) Pneumatic gauges and sotting 
masters . 

874 . 2109 
874 . 3009 


90 . 25 
90 . 16 


90 . 16 


90 . 16 


764 . 91 


90 . 16 
90 . 16 


881 .31 


90 .09 


90 . 16 


NSC 


90 . 28 


( 4) Epidlascopo, opto magolfication 

X - 100 . 
( 5) Wheatstone Bridge, Kelvin Bridge , 

Capacitance Bridge , RLC Bridge 

with accuracy 1 and loss accurato 
(0) Cupical thermomotors. 
(1) Domestlo wator motors . 
(8) Houto service motoru . 
(9 ) Hydrometoro. 


PART B 


874 . 5403 
873 . 1002 
873 . 1003 
874 .5402 


90 . 23 
90 . 26 
90 . 26 
90 . 23 


90 . 16 


(10 ) Laboratory balancos (physical/ 

cherical) to road upto 0 .05 gms. 


874 . 5101 


90 . 15 


Items permissible for Import : 
(1) Mochanical comparators . 

NSC 
(2) Slip gauges. 

874 . 2107 
(3 ) Feolor gaugos. 

874 . 2109 
(4) Tension gauges424 gms. 874 . 53 
(5) Hand tachomotors 0 – 35,000 RPM . 873 . 2001 
(6) Contre distance gauge. 

874 . 2109 
(7) Floating carriago dlamoter mca 
suring machine . 

874 . 21 


(11) Monsuring instruments (oloctrical) 

of accuracy + 1 % and loud accurate. 874 . 8 


90 . 16 
90 . 16 
90 .22 
90 .27 
90 . 16 


90 . 28 


(12 ) Binoculars coating less than Rs. 

1000 / - cach or pot having any of tho 
followlog characteristics - 
(1) Magpification more than 1. 


871 . 0101 


90 .03 


90 . 16 


(8) Bevol protoctor /Combination sots . 


NSC 


NSC 


( II) Minimum Objectivo glau dla 

of 50 mm . 


(9 ) Baromoten , 


874 . 5401 90. 23 
874 . 4021 90 . 25/.23 


( 14 ) Sealed Typa . 


( 13) Laboratory ovens, inqubator and 

autoclavos apd bath thermostalic 
stills , 


( 10 ) Flamo pbotometers 
(11) Flame Scanners for boilers. 
(12 ) Gas analysers ( IR typog, heat con 

dugting and paramagnetic types 
and traco gas analysers ). 


941 . 3101 / 3102 83 . 11 
741 . 2201 & 84 . 14 & 
721 , 9702 8 4 , 28 


874 . 4001 


90 . 23 


(14) Varntor callport other than Eloot. 

roplo typal . . . . 


(13) Laboratory microscope (monocular/ 

Cinocular ) upto x 500 oxcluding 
research microscopo . 


874 . 2103 


90 . 16 


871 . 03/04 


90 . 11/ 
90 . 12 


(15) Bulkmeton or downoters 


874 . 3001 de 
874 . 3009 


90 . 24 
90 . 24 


(14 ) Hygrometor. 


874 . 5409 


(16 ) Strala lodioators 


874 . 53 


90 . 22 


90 . 23 
(CCCN 
code for 
non -olo 
ctrical) 


(17) Micro dlm rondor. 


NSC 


90 . 09 


216 


VIIH . 


V V 


LA = = 


V1 . . 1 . VALV - 411 411 


Lama 


- Vuy . 


TITONO TW H TTTTTTTTL 


U 


HIT TW 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


APPENDIX 8 - -- concld . 


ITC R -2 

Code 


CCCN 
Code 


ITC R -2 

Code 


CCCN 
Code 


(15) Galvanomotors with moasuring 

accuracy + 1 % and less. 


874 . 8919 


90 . 28 


(4 ) Bloctronic slip comparator used 

for calibration of slips /gauge 
blocks in standard room 


NSC 


90 . 16 / 
90. 28 


(16 ) 


90 . 16 


(8) Go -No-Go sortation gaugo sot 874. 2109 
( II ) Go- No-Go spline Gaugo sot 


90 . 25 


90 . 22 


( 17) Soli and coment testing instruments NSC 


(18) Tachographs . 


NSC 


90 , 44 


90 . 28 
(Codo for 
electrical) 


(19) Ultrasonic devices including ultra 

sonic flaw dotoctors . 


( 5 ) Small spring land testing 

machine upto 10 kgs, with least 
count of 5 grams. 

NSC 
(6 ) Molting flow Index moasuring 

instruments for plastics , 874 . 3009 
(26) Civil Engineering Instrumonts, the 

following :-- 
( 1) Inclinometers. 

874 . 11 
(2 ) Extonsomotors. 

NSC 
(27) Pressure , vacuum and level gauges/ 
Indicators . 

874 , 3002 & 

874 . 3005 
(28) API (American Potrolour Insti 
tuto ) plug and nog gaugos . 

874 .2105) 

06 


874 . 8 


90 . 28 


90 . 14 
90 . 22 


( 20 ) U -shaped loather thickness 10 

surlag gaugos having at least count 
of 0 . 01 mm . 


874 . 2109 


90 . 16 


90 . 24 


(21) Draw Down Applicator. 


NSC 


NSC 


20.20 


90 . 20 


90 . 16 


( 22 ) Elastomotor. 


874 . 5301 


90 .22 


(23) Abrasion Tester for sole leather . 


874 . 5309 


90 .22 


(29) Electronic gauges and cloctronic 

probos. 


873 . 83 


90 . 28 


NOTES : 


(24) Dial calipers , digit and digital 

calipers, spocial purposo callpors 
. and long gizo calipers. 


1. The ITC R .2 and CCCN Code numbers have boon 

assignod to facilitato collection of data only . 


( 25) Instrumonts roquired for the Engl 

Doering Industry, the following : - 
(1 ) Height micromotor 


874 . 2103 


90 . 16 


You 


2 . Those will be reproduced on the Bills of Entry 

filled by the Importer and on licences whenover 
Issued . 


(2) Gaugo for non - destructive 

moasuromont of plating thick 
ness (Magnet gauge , Parmag 
copo ). 


874 .2109 


90 . 16 


3 . Thase, howover, will not be blading on customs 

authorities for classification for tariff purposes . 
4 . The interpretation of the Import-Export Policy 

will, however, continue to be as per description 
of tho items given in this Appendix and got 

according to the Codo numbers assigned . 
5 . NSC denotes " Not Separately Classified " . 


( 3 ) 


Visual inspection instruments 
used in industry to inspect 
in Cassible placs ( Fibrescopc. 
Endorscopes, Introscopes). 


NSC 


90 . 13 


( TT - 01] 


भारत का राजपत : असाधारण 


217 


Em 


APPENDIX 9 


9 


85.11 


762 ) 


. 82 
. 83 


LIST OF MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT, THE MANUFACTURERS OF WHICH ARE ELIGIBLE 

TO IMPORT SPARES FOR AFTER -SALES SERVICE 
ITC R . 2 CCCN 

ITC R . 2 CCCN 
Code Codo 

Code Codo 
(1) Pumps and Compressors. 742 & 743 84 . 10 (1 ) Industrial furnaces. 

141 . 31 
84 . 11 
(16 ) Industrial/Power Bollors . 

711 . 1 84 . 0 
(2) Industrial machinery , 

71 to 77 

NSC 
(3) Machine Tools . 

(17 ) Professional Electronic equipment. 751. 2101 NSC 
736 , 

84 . 45 . 
695 . 31 to 1 84 . 48 

152 . 1 to 
695 . 43 

752 . 5 
728 . 11 

761 
728 . 12 
(4) Automobiles. 781 , 782 & 87 .01 

763 . 8 
783 02/03 

764 . 3 
(5) Dlosel Engines, 713 .21, 84 .06 

764 , 8 
. 22, . 32 

874 , 81 
(6 ) Agricultural machinery ( Tractors, 

Power Tillers and Combined Har 
vostora ). 

721. 1, 84 . 24 ) ( 18 ) Material Handling equipmont. 744 

87 . 07 
721 . 21 to 84 . 25 / 

84 . 22 
721 . 23 & 87 . 01 

(19) Turbines and Altomators/Gone 
722 

rators of capacity 60 MW and 
(7 ) Auto ancillary , 

784 , 785. 39 NSC abovo . 

716 , 718 85 . 01 

84 . 07 
(8) Gas plant and Air separation plant. 741. 1, 84 ,01 

08 
84 . 17 120 ) Stoam Turbinos. 

712 . 6011 84 .05 
(21) Hydroturbines . 

718 . 81 84 . 07 
(9) Pollution Control equipment. 743 . 6 

84 . 18 

221 Turbogenorators /Hydrogenerator . 716 . 2309 84 . 07 
(10 ) Photo-copying machine. 

751 . 8200 90 . 10 

23) Power transformors , above 50 MVA 
(11) Earth -moving machinery, 

723 . 4 /. 9 84 . 23 rating. 

771 . 1 85 .01 
(12) Process Control instruments . 874 . 8 

NSC 

(24 ) Electric motors above 450 HP 
(eloctrical (375 KW ) rating. 

716 .1102/ 85 .01 
or Eloct 

. 2104 ) 
tonio ) 

2108 

716 . 2115 
(13 ) Medical lostrumonts/oquipment, 872 

90 . 17 

. 18 (23) Elootric welding oqulpident. 737. 32 85. 11 


& 


Laboratory 


instru 


NOTES — 


( 14) Scientific 

monts . 


741 , 6 , 871 
872 , 873 , 
874 


84 . 17 
90 . 11 
90 . 12 
90 . 14 


1. The ITC R . 2 and CCCN Code numbers bavo 

been assignod to facilitato collection of data only , 
2 . Those will be reproduced on the BuL of Entry 

filled by the importer and on licences whenever 
igruod . 


. 13 


ឌី 


៖ 


3 . Thoso, howovor, will not be binding on customs 

authorities for classification for tarlit purposes. 
4 . The interpretation of the Import - Export Policy 

will , however , continue to be as per description 
of the items given in this Appendix and not 

according to the Codo number anled . 
$ . NSC denotas " Not Soparutely Clariftod ." 


ឌីន 


58 QI/ 85 -- 15 , 


218 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I Sec. 1 ] 


LILL 


APPENDIX 10 


LIST OF EQUIPMENT, MACHINERY ALLOWED AS SPARES ON A RESTRICTED BASIS 


ITC R . 2 

Code 


CCCN 
Code 


17C R .2 

Code 


CCCN 
Code 


(1) Compressors, 


743 . 1001 


84 11 


(9 ) Circuit breakers. 


772 . 1 


85. 19 


(2 ) Pumps (all types). 


742 


84 10 


( 10 ) Turbines and Steam turbines, 


712.6011 


84 .0 


(3 ) Complete gear boxes (as distin 

guished from individual gears ). 


NOTES : 


749 . 3002 


84 . 63 


1. The ITC - R .2 and CCCN Code numbors havo 

been assignod to facilitate collection of data only . 


(4 ) Complete engines . 


713.8 


84 . 06 


84.06 


(5) Transformers. 


771 . 1 


85 .01 


2 . Those will be reproduced on the Bills of Entry 

Oled by the Importer and on licences whenever 
Issuod . 


(6 ) Alternators /generators , 


716 


85 . 01 


3 . Thesc , however, will not be binding on customs 

authorities for classification for tariff purposes . 


(7 ) Out board motors above 10 H . P . 


713 . 3100 


84 . 06 


(8 ) 


Complete Instruments other than 
those appearing in Appendices 2 
Part B . 3 Part A and 8 . 


4 . The interpretation of tho Import- Export Policy 

will, however, continue to be as per description 
of the items given in this Appendix and not 
according to the Code numbers assigned . 


N .A . 


N . A . 


[WTTI- - ] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


219 


112 


+ 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- S 


S 


wa 


APPENDIX 11 


LIST OF SPORTA GOODS, EQUIPMENT 


ITC R2 
Code 


CCCN 
Code 


ITC R .2 

Code 


CCCN 
Code 


I. ARCHERY 


IX . WRESTLING 
(1) Wrailing Mates . 


(1) Bows. 


894 . 7231 


97 . 06 


894 . 7229 
894 . 7229 


97 . 06 
97.06 


(2 ) Arrows. 

1). ATHLETICS 
(1) Jovolinos. 
(2 ) Fibre Glass Poles. 
(3 ) Wind Gauges, 


X . TABLE TENNIS 
(1) Table Tennis Balls . 

894 . 2409 


97 . 04 


97 . 06 


894 . 7231 
894 . 7231 


97 . 06 


X1. SQUASH 


874 , 3 


90 . 24 


(1) Squash Balla . 


894 , 72299 7 . 06 


III. BASKETBALL 
(1) Fibro Gass Back Board - upright 

mechanically operated . 


XII . SYNTHETIC SURFACES 
(1) Synthetic Turf, Synthetic Track 

and other synthetic surfaces. NSC 


894 . 7229 


97. 06 


97 . 06 


IV . BADMINTON 


XIII. BILLIARDS 


97 . 06 


(1) Badminton Courts (Plastles ). 
(2 ) Nylon Shuttle Cocks. 


NSC 
894 . 7202 


97 . 06 


(1 ) Billiard clotb , rubber cushions for 

billard tables , blillard /snooker halls 
and billiard chalks. 


V . CYCAT 


894 . 2409 
895. 2311 


97 . 04 
98 . 0 $ 


(1) Race Cyclos . 


785 . 2001 


87 . 10 


NOTE 


- 


(2 ) Tobulars. 


NSC 


97 . 06 


1. The ITC R .2 and CCCN Code numbers havo 

beco assigned to facilitato collection of data only . 


VI GOLF 


(1) Golf Balls . 
( 2) Golf Sets 


894 . 7211 
894 . 7229 


97 . 06 
97 . 06 


2 . These will be reproduced on the Bills of Entry 

Alod by the Importer and on Ilconote whenever 
Issuod . 


3. There, however, will not be bloding on customs 

authorities for classification for tarlff purposes . 


VII . GYMNASTICS 
(1) Tranpoline. 

894 , 7231 
(2 ) Crash Mattresses. 

894 . 7231 


97 . 06 
97.06 


4 . The interpretation of the Import-Export Policy 

will , however, continue to bo as por description of 
the items given in this Appondix and not according 
to the Code numbers assigned . 


VIII. HOCKEY 


(! ) Hockey Balls for Astro Turf. 


894 . 7212 


97 . 00 


5. NSC denotes " Not Separately Classlied ." 


220 
- -- - - - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
- 


(PART I - Sec . 1] 


APPENDIX 12 


LIST OF SELECT EXPORT PRODUCTS ELIGIBLE FOR TAE FACILITY OF PARA 205 

OF IMPORT - EXPORT POLICY , 1985 - 88 


Si. Name of the item 
No, 


Group / 
Sub . 
Group as 
mootioned 


Appendix 


17 of the 
Import 
Policy 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


3 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


A .7 


1. Steel Forgings 

A . 1 
2. Ferrous Manufactures, viz : 

(1) C .I. Castings 
(2) Maubole Covers 
(3 ) Water and Sanitary Castings 
(4 ) Spun Pipes 
(5) Automobllo Castings 

A . 7 
3 . Railway Track Material 

A . 7 
4 . Industdal Fasteners 

A . 7 (lv ) 
5. Alrconditioning and Refrigeration equlpment. A . 21. 
6 . Power Equipment, Line Rotating Electrical 

Equipmoni, Transformers, Switch gear , Con 
trol gear, Rectifiers 

A .22 
7, Electric Fans 

A . 27 
8 . Machine Tools 

A .46 
9 . Hand Tools and Cutting Tools 

A . 51 
10. Diosel Engines 

A . 56 
11. Pumps and Compressors 

A . 56 
12 . Tea Machinery 

A .64 
13 . Weighing Equipment and Weighing Machine 
14 . Water Treatment Plant . 

A .64 
15 . Coal Handling Plant. 
16, Ash Handling Plant. 
17 . Industrial Boilers 

A .64 
18 . Pharmaceutical Machinery and Chemical 
Machinory 

A .64 
19. Packaging Machinery 

A . 64 
20 . Rice Mill Machinery 

A . G 
21. Automobiles and Automobilo Ancillaries A 70 
22. Railway Coaches, Wagons and Tram Carg 

A ,75 
23. Bloyłces and Paris 

A . 82 
24 . Transmission Line Towers 

A . 90 


25. Domestic Sewing Machines 

A . 94 
26. Watchos, Clocks and Timepieces 

A .100 
27. Scientific Instrumonts 

A . 102 
28 . Stool Furniture 

A . 102 
29. Tooth Paste 

8 . 20 . 4 
30 . Scouring Powder 

B . 20 , 7 
31, Perfumery Compounds ond Attars 

B . 20 .8 
32. Hair Oils Porfumod 

B . 20 , 9 
33 . Plastic Emulsions, Paints and Chemicals B 31 
34 . Nitro Cellulose Lacquers 

2 . 32 
35. Ceramic Products 

B .53/ 54 
36 . Clinical Thermometers 

B . 57 . 1 
37. Opthalmic Fused Blanks 

B .57 . 8 
38 . Rubber Aprons and Coats 

B .70 . 4 
39. Fire Fighting Hoses 

B .70 . 5 
40 . Rubber and Canvas Footwear 

B . 70 . 7 
41. Surgical and Medical Appliances of Rubbers B .70 .8 
42. Closed Shoes with Leather Uppers 

D .2. 1(1 (2 ) 
43 Light catogorios of Travel and other Leather 

goods like Attache cases, Brief cases , Ladies 
band bags , Wallets, Leather garments, Purses , 
Leuthor band gloves other than industrial 

Leather gloves covered by Sl. No . D .2 .4 . 1 .2 .2 
44 . Hoavy Loathor goods like Saddlery items, 
Leather Trunks , Leather Suit -casou 

023 
45. Fish and Fish Products , vizi 
(1) Canned Sea Food 

F . 1 . 2 
(II ) Driou and Salled Fish 

P . 1 .3 
46 . Foods, vizi 
(1) Frozen Moat 

G .4 (1) 
(11 ) Canned Meat 

( .4 (ili ) 
47. Instant Tea /Coffee 

0 . 180 ) 
48. Tea in Bags 

G . 18 (ii) 
19. Toa / Cofloc in consumer packs 
SO Chocolates and Maled Milk Food 

0 .2400 
51 . Spice Oil and Oleoreklo 

6 .30 
52 . Hand Knoticd Carpoto both Woulico And KS 
Silken 

K . 8 


A ,64 


A .64 


A .64 


0 .18(ID) 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


- - - 


mewu 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[ RT IZ 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


Trum 


- 


TULL 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


APPUNDIX 1.3 


( Chapter XVII ) 

IMPREST LICENSING SCHEME 
Imprest licences ( including Customs Clearance 

6 . In the case of the following export products , 
Permits and Release Orders ) are intended to supply however , the applicant merchant cxporter need not 
imported inputs for export production and will bear a indicate names of the supporting manufacturer /s - - 
suitablo cxport obligation . The value of such 
licences will be debited to the REP entitlement, if any , 

(1) EPNS and German Silver-ware ; 
admissible under Appendix 17 of the policy on ex 
ports made in fulfilment of such obligation . An 

( ii ) Leather manufactures ; 
Improst licence will not be eligible for Customs duty 
exemption . 

( ill ) Sports goods; 
2 . No application for a licence under this Schemo 

(iv) Handicrafts ; 
will be entertained for export of cinematographic 
films ( exposed ). 

( v) Agarbattis and Chandan Dhoop ; 
. 3. A registered exportei iş eligible to apply for 

(v/) Natural Silk Fabrics , 
Imprest licences : 

(vii) Readymade Garments ; 
(1) against a valid export contract in his own 

name giving the details specified in para I (vill) Woollen carpets, druggets and durries 
of Appendix 20 of this policy , or 

( handnjade ); 
(11) based on his annual average past export 

(1x ) Handloom products , namely , Cotton fabrics 
performance during the preceding three 

and fabrics of cotton and wool/silk /jute and 
fpancial years. 

non - fabric cotton textile items, and 
Lo both the types of cases, exports proposed to be 
effected and the foreign exchange to be realised 

( x ) Gem and Jewellery . 
against such exports shall be in his own name only . 
There is no objection , however, to the export docu 

7. An Imprest licence will be granted only if there 
ments indicating simply the name of the manufacturer , 
If required , but under no circumstances these exports 

is a minimum value addition of 33 % from the c.i.s. 
would be considered or accepted as the exports effected 

value of imports to the f. o .b , value of exports except 
by the maoufacturer. 

in cases covered by paras 9 ( 1) and ( 2) below . Licens 
ing authorities may, for reasons to be recorded , 

decline to coosider applications for Imprest licences 
4 . A merchant oxporter seeking issue of Lmprest 

where they consider the minimum value addition 
licence will have to indicate the names and addresses 

though 33 % or above is not suficient for the export 
of supporting dianufacturer / s where the goods im . 

products involved , 
portod shall be utilised in the manufacture . A copy 
of the registration cortificatc issued by the sponsoring 
authority concerned to the supporting manufacturer 

8 . A registered exporter is eligible to apply for 
As well as a consent letter from him are to be produced Imprest licences for items excluding - 
along with the application . It will also be pecossary 
for the applicant aad the supporting manufacturer/ s 

(1) those eligible to be imported by him under 
Involved to execute & joint bond with baok guarantee 

OGL 48 per provisions of this Policy , aod 
or legal agrocment, as the case may bo . 

(II) items covered by Appendix 2-Part A . 
9. A supportlog caoufacturer who reoclves tho 
Laported goods from an imprest Miccoce holder shall 

Ilcms of Appendices 2 Part B and 5 Part B speci 
atülso thoso goods lo the manufacture of the products fically permitted for import in Appendix 17 of this 
to bo oxported by the Improst llconce holder and supply Policy for the export products involved may be allow 
the manufactured goods to the Imprest liccaco holder . ed by the licensing authority only within the limits , 
Bxports will not be allovod to be offected by tho sup If any, for Import of such items uoder Appendix 17 . 
portiog manufacturor directly in his name or on If any excess valuc for import of these items is sought, 
beball of or on account of the Imprest llconce theec will be considered only op receipt of clearance 
holder 

from the CCI& E (EP - II Section ), New Delhi. 


222 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I- SEC . 1] 


S - 


VILMY 


SIP - 

I 


STI 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 1.3 -- Conrad 


( 2) Registered exporters who receive DTC sights 

and also claim Imprest licences under these 
provisions will separate their claims for Im 
prest licences under these provisions and Im 
prest DTC licences under the provisions 
given hereafter . 


9 . Applications for issue of Imprest licences will 
be considered as follows : 
( 1) In respect of cases covered by para 3(i) above , 

if the exporter desires to import only the items 
permitted in Appendix 17 and upto the 
import replenishment rate set down therein , 
be will be eligible to get Imprest licence to 
the full extent of such value; and the cxport 
obligation will be calculated at the inverse 
of the import replenishment rate i. e . if the 
replenishment rate is 10 % , the oxport obliga 
tion in f.o .b . terms will be 10 times the c.i.f. 
value of the Imprest licence. 


(3) lo respect of applications covered by 3( ii ) 

above , (excluding exports relating to DTC 
sights) no second Imprest licence based on 
cxport performance will be issued to the 
registered exporter during the same licensing 
period . He can , however , secure further 
Imprest licences against valid export con 
tracts . 


In these cases, the Imprest Licences issued will 
bo with an export obligation fixed at inverse ratio of 
65 % replenishment i.e., if an Imprest licence is issued 
for ( c.i.l.) Rs. 65 , f.o .b . value of export obligation will 
be Rs. 100 / 


13 . Applications for Imprest licences under this 
category may be preferred in the form given in 
Appendix XVII - , of the Hand Book of Import 
Export Procedures, 1985 - 88 to the licensing authority 
concerned . 


(2 ) In respect of cases covorod by para 3( ii) 

above , if the application is for item (8 ) and the 
quantity / value conforming to Appendix 17 
in toto , the exporter will be eligible to get an 
Imprest liconce for a value that would suffice 
for export production upto 50 % of his 
Annual average cxport performance of the 
relevant products during the procoding three 
financial years. The export obligation will 
be determined on the basis given in sub -para 

(1) above . 
( 3) In the case of applications covered by para 

3 (i) or ( ii ) above but not covered by sub- para 
( 1) or (2 ) above where the product to be 
exported , the items of import and the quantity / 
value of the Improst licence applied for do pot 
conform to Appendix 17 in toto, the exporter 
shall furnish a Chartered Eogincer s 
Certificate as proscribed in Appendix 
XVI -- F of the Hand Book . Such requests 
will be considered only if in the goods pro 
posed to be exported , there is a minimum 
value addition of 33 % . The export obliga 
tion will be fixed equal to the f. o . b . value 
of the order or as per the value addition , 
as the case may be . 


Imprest DTC Licences 


14 .(1) The Diamond Trading Company, London , 
allocates monthly sigbi to select exporters of uncut 
unpolished diamond the country known as DTC 
sights, Exporters w have secure such sights from 
DTC are eligible to obtain Impre TC licences as 
follows : 


(0 ) Regular DTC sight Holders shall be allowed 

annual DTC licence equal to the consolidated 
value of all the DTC Sights reccived by the 
exporter in the preceding yoar. In addition , 
Brokerage /Commission as per para 14( 3 ) 
below shall also be allovod . 


10 . Application for Improst licence lo the Pre 
scribed form givon in Appendix XVII of the Hand 
Book may be submitted to the licensing authority 
concerned . 


11. For import of components by a DOTD or a 
Toxtile machinery manufacturing unit the List Attesta 
tion Procedure as per provisions io para 94 of this 
policy will apply . 


Imprest Licences for Gem and Jowellery 

12 . Applications for Imprest licences for Import 
of uncut/ unpolished diamonds (Rough diamonds) will 
de ontertained from registered exportors of cut and 
polished diamonds subject to the following condi 
tods : 
(1) Exports of cut and polished diamonds. If any. 

effected by the applicant from uncut/ un 
polished diamonds (Roughs ) Imporicu fron ) 
DTC , Loodoo , are not included 


(11) After the allotment ofmonthly sight, the annual 

DTC licence sball be presented to the licens 
ing authority for endorsomont before remit 
tance of Foreign Exchange. Along with the 
application , the sight holder shall also give 
evidence lo fulflmcot of Export Obligation 
due on account of imports against carlier 
monthly sights . In case the export obliga 
tion is overduc on any provious DTC sight 
or the exporter bas been doclared a defaulter, 

the codorsement shall be dcolod . 
( 111 ) lo case the sights allotted to an exporter arc 

not fully covered by the annual DTC licence, 
the exportor may apply to the licensing 
authority for issuc of another bulk licence 
which shall be considered keeping io view the 
value of the appual DTC licence and the 
value of the monthly sights expected in the 
remaloing part of the year. 


[ 


I - 


1] 


भारत का राजपस : असाधारण 


223 


- LT 


LO 


APPENDIX 13 – Conclu . 


(iv ) The new sigh holders may apply for licences 

to the licensing authorities on monthly 
basis after receiving communication regard 
ing allotment of sight from DTC . The pro 
vision regarding outstanding cxport obliga 
tion given in sub-para (ii) above shall apply . 


Letter of Authority 

17 . The provisions in paras 118 & 119 of the 
Hand Book relating to issue of Letter of Authority 
will not be admissible for a licence issued under this 
Scheme except in cases where such letters of authority 
is in favour of the supporting manufacturer(s) whose 
Danie(s) has/havo been furnished along with applica 
tion for a licence under this Scheme. Similarly , a 
letter of credit can only be opened on a licence under 
this scheine by the licence holder or the supporting 
manufacturer referred to above . 


(2 ) Import licences may be issued for a value upto 
5 % higher than the normal entitlement to accom 
modate fluctuations in exchange rates with a corres 
ponding increase in the export ob igation . 


(3 ) Commission / Brokerage charges uplo 11 % , 
if given outside the country , may be accepted for 
issue of Imprest DTC licences against monthly 
sights provided these charges are accounted for corres 
ponding increase in the export obligation prescribed . 


(4 ) Obligation for export of cut and polished 
diamonds will be fixed inversely treating the value 
licensed as 65 % of the replenishment. The period 
allowed for fulfilment of export obligation for an 
Imprest DTC licence will be calculated in respect of 
cach endorsement made on the licence based on 
release of monthly sights and will be four months 
from tho date of clearance of the first consignnient 
of import or 30 days from the date of import of the 
first consignment, whichever is earlier. Redemption 
of export obligation will be considered after the expiry 
of the prescribed export obligation period unless 
the export obligation prescribed on the licence bas 
been fulfilled earlier, 


( 5 ) Ao Imprest DTC licence issued under these 
provisions will be valid for import of uncut/un 
polished diamonds from DTC , London, only , 


Export Obligation 

18 . Every Imprest licence issued under this Schemo 
will be subject to an export obligation . Such export 
obligation will begin from the date of clearance of the 
first consigoment of import or 30 days from tlie date 
of import of the first consigoment, whichicver is earlier, 
Before clearance of the first consignment, the licence 
holder shall executo an export bond with bapk 
guarantee or legal agreement, as thc case may be, 
with the concerned licensing authority as per 
para 339 of the Hand Book . The bond and legal 
agreement forms are given in Appendix XVII - Cof 
the Hand Book . 

19 . Export obligation prescribed for an Imprest 
( other than Imprest DTC ) licence shall be fulfilled 
in six months . Regional licensing authorities headed 
by Jt. CCI& E /Dy. CCI& E may consider, on merits , 
extension of export obligation for a period not exceed 
ing 3 months. Normally , no further extension of 
export obligation will be granted beyond the three 
months referred to above . However, in exceptional 
cases and for reasons beyond the control of the ex 
porter, the CCI& E (EP - II Section ), New Delhi may 
consider grant of further extension in export obliga 
tion period . In the case of export of recorded 
Cassettes (Audio and Video ) no extension shall be 
granted . 

20 . The licensing authority concrned may , on 
roquest , for valid reasons, enhance the c.i.f. value of 
the Imprest licence provided the f.o .b . value of export 
obligation prescribed is correspondingly enhanced . 
Reduction in the c.i.f. value of licence is also permis 
sible , but any reduction in the fob value of export 
obligation will require prior clearance from the 
CCI& E New Delhi. 

21 . The goods imported against a licenco issued 
under this Schemo will be used for the purpose for 
which they have been imported or for further produc 
tion by the importer. However, request for transfer 
of imported materials against a licence issued under 
the Scheme as a replenishment to the supporting 
manufacturer referred to in para 17 above at landed 
cost ( c.i. f. plus customs duty ) may be considered , on 
merits , by the CCJ & E ( EP -II Section ), New Delbi. 

22 . The provisions of paras 24 (2 ), (3), (4 ), (6 ), 
26 , 28 and 29 (excluding payment of duty and inte 
rest in sub-para (3 ] ) of Appendix 19 of this policy 
will apply , mutatis mutandis , to this Scheme also . 


15. Eligible Registered Exporters may profer 
applications for Imprest DTC licences to the licens 
ing authority concerned in the form given in 
Appendix XVII - A of the Hand Book . 


Imprest Customs Clearance Permits 


16 .(1) Applications for issue of Customs Clearance 
Permit for raw materials , components or consumables 
supplied free of cost for re -export after processing in 
India may be considered. Similarly , applications for 
CCP for goods supplied free of cost to be re - exported 
after jobbing , repairing, servicing , and reconditioning 
in India may also be considered . A suitablo export 
obligation shall be imposed in all such cases. Import 
of jigs, tools , fixtures , tackles and instruments relevant 
for such export production supplied free of cost may 
also be allowed . 


( 2 ) Application for Customs Clearance Pormit 
under sub - para (1 ) above may be preferred to the 
licensing authority concerned with a copy to the 
CCI & E (EP - II Scction New Delhi. Imprest CCP will 
bo issued on receipt of clearance from the CCI& E . 


224 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I -- SEC. 1) 


m 


nan m 


WA 


APPENDLX 14 
MACHINERY REQUIRED FOR MANUFACTURE 


OF WOODEN FURNITURE 


Sl. 


Description of the machinery 


ITC Rov . 2 CCCN 
- Code Code 


Sl. 


No. 


No . 


Description of the machinery ITC R v. 2 

Code 


CCCN 
Code 


1. Wood Moulding Machine auto 

matic from 4 spindlos to 8 
spindlos 


728 . 1203 


84 .47 


12 . Poumatic Screw Drivers , Pneu . 

matic Nalling machino and all 
otber pneumatic tools roquired 
for the furnituro industry . 


NSC 


81 . 49 


2 . Automatko and Semi-automatio 

copying lathos . 


736 . 1312 & 
736 . 1319 


84 . 45 


13 . Parquet Flooring machine 


NSC 


84 . 47 


14 . Wood Moisture meter 


NSC 


90 , 16 


728 . 1209 
NSC 
728 .1205 


84 . 47 
84 . 45 
84 .45 


15 . Light duty clotho and cotton 

clotho cuttor machine for the 
furniture upholstery . 


724 . 7405 


84 .40 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


3 . Wood DowelMaking machinos 
4 . Edge Banding Machine. 
3. Multiple Rip Saw machino 
6 . Routor Machino 
7. Wood Tenolning machine 
8. Panel Cutting and Grooving 

machines . 


NSC 


84 . 45 


Notes 1 


728 . 120984 . 47 


728 . 1209 


84 , 47 


% Vonoor Clippers. 


728 . 1206 


84 . 47 


1. The ITC R . 2 and CCCN Code numbors have boon 

assigned to facilitate colloction of data only . 
2 . These will be reproducod on tho Bills of Entry Alod by 

the importor and on licences whenover issued . 
3 . Tboso, however, will not be binding on customs 

authorities for classification for tarif purposes. 
4. The Interprotation of the Import- Export Polky, will , 

howover contloud to be as per description of the ltoms 
given to this Appendix and not according to the Code 

numbers assigned . 
5 . NSC dorotos "Not Separatoly Classified ." 


10 . Automatic Band -Saw blade 

erinding and brazing machines. 
11. Gluo Spreador machino 


84. 45 


NSC 
NSC 


84 , 59 


भारतमा राजपा : असाधारण 


225 


[ TTI - 1) 
S . . ---- - - - 


- 


- -- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


= 


= - RT 
w 

Les 


APPENDIX 15 


(Chapter XX ) 
IMPORT POLICY FOR REGISTERED EXPORTERS IN FREE TRADE ZONES 


1. Licensing authority 


She Controllor of Imporia and Exports , New 
Kandla is the licensing authority for Kandla frec 
Trade Zone and the Deputy Development Commis 
sloner ( Import & Exports ) Santacruz Electronic 
Export Processing Zone, Bombay is the licensing 
authority for that Zone. 


2 . Import of Capital Goode 

(i) Import of Capital Goods into these Frec 

Trade Zoney has been placed! OD Open 

General Licence . 
( ii ) The Developnient Comıng-sioner of the Zone 

will verify whether the machinery imported 
ja peant for the purpose of production for 
which the importing unit has been approved 

in thc Zone , 
( ) Import of prototypes, office cquipmcat and 

consumables for office equipment into these 
Zones has also boca placed on Open General 

Licence 
( iv ) Import of Diesel Generating set into these 

zones has also been placed on O .G .L . 


Citi ) Importables 
for office . 


on Open 


for import replenishment liçence in accordance with 
the import policy for Registered Exporters, provided .--- 
( a ) we goods supplied bare bcon manoMIRI 

oladi ; 
( b ) the supplica bave been made at internauona 

price ; 
(c ) the supplier is a Registered Exporter and in 

otherwise eligible to the import replenish 

ment Licence under the policy in force ; 
( d ) the supplies uro made agaiost a letter of 

authority issued by th¢ Development Ceyn 

missioner of the Zone ; and 
( e ) supplies made are not semi- finished goods, 
( 11) Toils located in the Zono desiring in procure 
Aly goods from DIA for export production should 
Dake separato applications to the licensing authority 
through the Development Commissioner for obtaiping 
lotter of authority , indicating the items and their valuc 
(No letter of authority will be required for such good 
which are not required for export production ) , 

(14 ) While dealing with much applications, the 
Developinent Commissioner will bec whcther that 
supplies sought to be made in the Zope from the DIA 
are essential for export production and will also 
scrutinlso the prices at which tho materials , in questione 
are sought to be purchased , 

( iv ) Busou on the above, the licensing authority 
will issue a letter of authority to enable the unit ip 
the Zone to obtain supplier of goods of specified dea 
cription and value from the DTA within a speciácd 
period . The letter of authority will , inter alia , be 
Bubject to the condition that the goods, in question , 
shall be utilised ja the factory of the letter of autho . 
rity holder in the Free Trade Zone for emport produc 
tion . As vodertaking to this caect shall alo be 
given by the applicant to the licensing authority ulong 
with his application for such Iefter ut autbority 
Pollaro on the part of the letter of authority holder to 
comply with the condition of the letter of authority 
and the term of the said ludertaking shall roulet 
him liable for rcb action as may be talco agalost hlo 

this regud . 

(v ) lho good : will be allowed catry into the Zou 
on the strength of the said letter of authority Al 
the timo of entry of tho goods lolo tbe Zono, tbc 
customs authority of the Development Commleslon 
of the Zone will endotee the supplier s Invoice to the 
enect that the goods covered by the invoice have been 
roolved in the Pope 


3 . Import of Raw Materials, composent and Sparen 


etc. 


Import of raw materials, components , spares ctc . 
Into tliese Zones has been placed on Open Groera ! 
Licenco . Howevor , itcms banded for import in the 
Domestic Tariff Area under Appendix 2 , Part A 
of this policy will not be allowed to be imported in 
the free trude zones under Open Goneral Licence . 


4 . A copy of the Oper General Licence is given 
In this Appendix . The importers are advised to rc 

ulate their imports under the Open General Licence 
in such a way that they adherr to the value added 
criterion on the basis of which their project war sp 
proved . The Development Commisioner of tbc 
ZONC shall crannc that the valdc adulod criterion in 
heint obrorved . 


5. Supplies tou Domestic Turth Aren (DTA ) in the 

on 
in Tam which the natia in the Zone an Impir 
under Open General Licence , if supplied from Donies 
tic Tariff Area to the units in the Zone will be eligible 


226 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I- -Sec . 1) 


APPENDIA ID - cond 


(vi) The supplier of the goods can claim import 
roplenishment liccacos under the import policy for 
registered exporters against such supplies. Import 
Applications should be made to the Controller of 
Imports & Exports, New Kandia Dy. Development 
Commissioner ( Import & Exports ) , Santacruz EXDI 
Processing Zone, Bombay in the form prescribed in 
the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures , 
1985 – 88 . The application should be supported by 
the following documents - 


( 2 ) The sale shall be effected only with the prior 
permission of the Development Commissioner of the 
concerned Free Trade Zone. The unit desiring to 
sell their goods to the Domestic Tariff Arca should , 
therefore , approach the Development Commissioner . 
It should also indicate the quantity of the item sought 
to be supplied in DTA against valid GCA licence and 
the total quantity of the same item produced by the 
unit , as on date, during the concerned licensing year 
to enable the Development Commissioner to verify 
that the proposed sale is not exceeding 25 per cent of 
the production already turned out by the unit . 

(3 ) After obtaining permission from the Develop 
ment Commissioner, the sale can be effected against 
valid GCA licence . The Development Commissioner 
will debit the connected import licence before the 
goods are allowed to be taken out of thic Zone . To 
this extent, the import lioence shall cease to be valid 
for further importa . 


towards 


( a ) Challan for the requisite amount 

payment of application fee . 


will debit thicence. The Bole can be et 


( 6 ) Photostat/ attested copy of the latter of mulho 

rity issued by the Development Commis . 
sioner, on the basis of which the youts, 10 

question , were supplied 
( c ) Supplier s invoice duly cadorsed by customs 

authority in the zone to the cffect that the 
goods covered by the invoice have been 
roceived in thc Zorc . 


( d ) A statement of export in the form prescribed 

is the Hand Book of Import-Export Proce 
dures, 1985 – 88 . 


(4) The purchaser of the goods in the Domestic 
Tariff Arca shall be liable to pay the excise duty . 
sales tax and such other taxes as may be loviable on 
the goods in question . This shall be subject to Notif 
cation No . 13 / 83 -Central Excise datat the 11th 
February , 1983 issued by the Departmegt of Revenue , 
New Delhi and such other notifications or instructions 
as may be issued by them from time to time io 
regard to the sale of goods manufactured in Free 
Trade Zone, into the Domestic Tant Area . 


( . ) An vadertaking / declaration in the form 

appended to the form of iniport application . 


Further details may be ascertained from the Develop 
ment Conmissiouer of the Zone or the licensing 
autbority concerned . 


( vii) Tbe supplier of the goods can alsa claim 
other benefits , namely , (a ) discharge of cxport obli 
gation against Capital Goods liceoce or Industrial 
licence or Foreigo Collaboration approval, (b ) grant 
of cxport house certificate , and ( c ) benefits, if any, 
available to exporting units under the Actual User 
Policy. 


Transfer of Goods imported loto Free Trade Zone 

8 . The following procedures will apply to ibe trans 
for / loaning of goods imported into Free Trade 
Zones : 
( 1) The imported materials can be uansferred 

or given on loan to another wit in the same 
zote with the written permission of the 
Development Commissioner of the concem . 
ed zone, 


The goods imported into Free Trade Zones 
will not be allowod to be given op loun to 
uniti nitunted outside the Zouc . 


6 . Disposal of surplus imported goods 

Requests for disposal of fonds imported to 
the zone may be considered , as mcrits, by the Ministry 
of Commerce , on the recommendation of the Deve 
lopmcat Commissłoner of the zone. The permission 
for disposal, if granted will be subject to such condi 
tions as Government may impone 


Valid General 


7. Salo of goods in India Again 

Currency Aren Import ucences 


( il ) Where a unit situated in the zone is unable 

to utilise the imported goods for the purpose 
for which these were imported or the mate 
rial is surplus to its ncede , it may transfer 
that material to an cligible Actual User out 
side tho zone or to a public sector agency , 
with the prior written permission of the 
licensing authority concerned provided (a ) 
the case has bech recommended by the 
Development Commissioner of tho copcorn 
od zone nad the sponsoring authority of 
the buyer (where the buyer is an Actua ) 
User (b ) the Customs Authorities in the 
Zone have no objection to the goods being 
takco out of the Zope on payment of cu 
toms duty and other charges , if my, 


(1 ) Gooda manufactured in Free Trade Zone In 
lodia may be allowed to be sold in the Domestic Tarla 
Arca against Valid General Currency Area import 
licences . Such sale thall not exceed 25 per cent of 
production of the same Iten by the ugit concerned 
in the Free Trade 7onc during the licensing yoar. 


[ TI 


] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


227 


nurtun 


LR 


I 


TA 


- - - - 


- 


112 


APPENDIX 1 $ - Conid . 


(2 ) The value of these goods is accounted by 

the buyer for the purpose of value addi 
tion prescribed for him in accordance with 
the instructions in force from time to time. 


(iv) In the event of the Board of Approval allow 

ing debonding of a unit in Free Trade Zone 
or granting permission for disposal of capital 
goods, imported raw materials , or components 
etc . rendered surplus with the unit , the custom 
duties on debonding disposal will be leviable 
in the following manner : 
( a ) Customs duty on Capital goods on the 

depreciated value but at rates prevalent 
at the time of import; 


( 3 ) For payment of duties, the original 

supplier will be liable , and for this pur 
pose a joint bond will be taken from the 
seller and the buyer. 


(6 ) Customs duty on unused imported raw 

materials and components on value at the 
timo of import and at ratos in force at 
the time of cloarances ; and 


(4 ) Movement of materials from a unit in the 

zone to a unit in another Free Trade 
Zone or 100 % Export Oriented Unit will 
be undor Customs bond. 


( c) in respect of excisable goods, excise duty 

to be levicd without depreciation and at 
rate attracted at the time of clearance . 


( 5) Tho liability of the original supplier will 

remain notwithstanding the supplies/ 
truosfers cffected by him to upits in other 
Free Trade Zones or 100 % Export 
Oriented Units . 


(1) Supplies/transfers of materials from a upit 

in Free Trade Zone to a unit in another Free 
Trade Zone or to a 100 % Export Orionted 
Unit may be pernoitted by the Development 
Commissioner subject to the following condi 
tions : 


(6 ) Transit cost is to be borne by the seller . 

Similarly , all expenses incurred by the 
Customs on account of such move 
ments will be recovered as por Procedure 
for Recovery to be announced by the 
Customs. 


( 1 ) It shall be cosurod that the value addi 

tion expected to be fulflled by the sup 
plier has already been fulfilled by him 
before the material leaves the unit in 
the Zodc. 


(7 ) Only one such transfor of goods shall be 

allowed and thereafter the goods/ pro 
ducts maoufactured therefrom shall be 
exported . 


228 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - Sec 11 


- 


nnn 


IPPLNDIX 13 -- Cunile 


( COPY OP OPEN GENERAL LICENCE FOR FREE TRADE ZONES ) 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 


IMPORT TRADE CONTROL 


ORDER NO . 18 /85-88 


New 


Delhi, the 12th April , 1935 


OPEN GENERAL LICENCE NO . 18 /85 


In exercise of the powars conforted by Soction 3 of Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 (18 of 1947), the Contral Government 
givas general permission , till furthor orders to the Actual Users located in tho respectivo Froo Trade Zones for the import of (1 ) Capital 
Goods (whether now or second hand), (2 ) raw materials, ( 3 ) components, (4 ) spares, (5 ) consumables , (6 ) packing materials , ( 7) tools, 
Jigs, fixtures and gauges, (8 ) prototypes and technical samples not exceeding two in number of each type for product diversification 
and developmont or evaluation (9 ) Diesel Generating set into the Free Trade Zonos, subject to the Actual Uror condition as applicable 
theroto ln cach case . However, itoms banned for Import in Domestic Tarift Area undar Appendix 2 , Part A of this Policy , will 
not be allowed to be imported in the Free Trade 2ona, under this Open Gencral licence. 


2 . For import of socond hand Capital Goods, tho Importer shall produce to tho Customs Authority at the time of clearance, a 
Cortillcate from a professional independont Charterod Engliieer /any equivalent Institute in the Country from whkh import is made, 
indicating :- 

(u ) Name of manufacturer of thọ plant and machinory ; 
(b ) Year of manufacturo ; 
(0 ) Present condition of the plant and machinery and its expected residua ) life (Import of machinery having expected residual lile 

of loss than 5 years and also inachinery more than 7 years old shall not be allowed ) ; 
( d ) thoo.i.f. value of equivalent Capital Goods: If purchased now . 
(e ) Nature of fo- conditioning/ ropals donc , if doy, and the date (s) on which these were carried out; and 
(1) Opinion regarding the price asked for by the suppliers and the busis for tuoh opiniop . 


3 . On the rocominondation of the Development Commissionor of the concernod Zonc , such Actua ) Users may also import for the 
purpose of their own production /uso , product diversification and dovoloponent or evaluation (i) prototypes and technical samples not 
doverod in para 1. (11) drawings , blue prints , charts, technical data locluding micro - ilms and (lil) offico equipocot, spares and consumables 
Iberoof. 

4. Such Aoual User may also Import goods recoivod () for ropairs /raconditioning by then in the Zone and to be re -expoxid 
thereafier or ( ii ) back from tho consignoos overseas within a period of three years from the date of their despach to him by the Actual 
User (after following the connooted formalities under the Foreign Exbcange Regulations Act) . 


5. The importer shall maintain lo the proscribed form propor Account of the Import, consumption and utilisation of all irpported 
natorials and of tho exports made by him and submit them poriodically as roqurod to tho Dovolopinept Commissionor of the Zond and 
to the licensing authority concerned . The importor shall conform to the minimum value-added condition surulated by Governcot In lub 
cabo . 


6. This licence is without prejud .co to the application to any goods of any other prohibition or regulatlon allocting the import that 
may be in forco at the timewhen such goods are imported . 

1. This licenco is io supersension of Ministry of Commerce Import Trade Control Order No. 19 /84 . dated the 12th April, 1984 


Sdr 

(PC. JAIN 
cier CONTROLLER OF IMPORTS AND EXPORTS 


(Copy to all concerned ) 
By Ordor otc . 


SJ/ 

(0 .1 , GAHR O TRA , 
JOINT CHIEF CONTROLLER OP WATPORTS AND EXPORTS 

Issued from file No. 1/2 / YVI/ REP /74 . CPC ( Vol 901 ) 


[MTIT 


भारत का राजपन , असाधारण 


229 


APPENDIX 16 


SELECT LIST OF EXPORT PRODUCTS 


1. Engineering goods, 
1 . 1 Engineering goods including stainless stoel 

products ( excluding prime steel and non 

ferrous mctals ) 
1. 2 Ferro -alloys. 


4 


packs sed tea le.Ses and allic 


2 . Chemicals, plastics and allied products. 
2 . 1 Chemicals and allied products, namely ::- 
(a ) Inorganic chemicals, organic chemicals and 

miscellaneous chemicals. 
(6 ) Drugs and drug intermediatos including 

crudo drugs . 
(c) Dyes and dye intermediates . 
(d ) Toiletries and perfumeries and porfumery 

compounds (excluding processed talc ). 
(e ) Paints and allied products . 

Safety matches , fireworks, explosives and 

detonators . 
( g) Ceramic products. 
(11) Glass and glassware . 
(1) Asbestos, cement including clinkers and 

cement products . 
(1) Wood products and processed wood . 
(k ) Rubber manufactures including reclaimed 

rubber. ; 
(1 ) Paper, paper products and stationery , 

including books , journals and periodicals and 

articles made of paper pulp . 
(m ) Pesticides and preservativos . 
(n ) Agarbattis , dhoop and incense. 

(0 ) Synthetic graphite products . 
2 . 2 Refractories . 

2 . 3 Plastics and Linoleum products. 
3. Leather and sports goods. 
3 . 1 Finished leather and leather manufactures 

including Footwear and Brushes all kinds 

made of animal bristles 
3. 2 Sports goods. 
4 . Pood , agriculture and forest products. 

4 . 1 Animal casings. 
4 2 Canned and frozen marine products 


4 . 3 Processed foods, Dehydrated onions, Cashew 

Kernels roasted /saltod , cocoa beans/powder, 

alcholotic and soft beverages, 
4 . 4 Meat, Poultry , Eggs and allied products . 
4 . 5 Packaged tea i.e. tea packed in consumer 

packs of a size upto 1 kg. and instant tea . 
4 . 6 Grcen tea, 
4 , 7 Instant and packaged ground coffcc . 
4 . 8 Ossoin and gelatine . 
4 . 9 Tobacco manufactures . 
4 . 10 Flowers (dry or fresh ), Cut flowers and 

decorative plants. 
4 . 11 Soods of Vegetables, flowers and fruits. 
4 . 12 Fruits (fresh or dry ), Fresh Vegetables. 
4 : 13 Spices and curry powder and pastes (consu 

mer pack of 1 kg. or less ). 
4 . 14 Treated and Pulverised Guar Gum . 
4 . 15 Natural cssential oils. 
4 . 16 Deoiled rico bran extraction (produced by 
solvent extraction process ) and Deoiled cotton 

seed cakes/cotton seed extraction (produced 
by solvent extraction process) and Compound 

Animal Feed ( excludiog oil cakes). 
4 . 17 Mango Kernel Extractions and mango 

Kernel oil. 
4 . 18 Soyabean Extraction /Meal and its products. 
4 , 19 Sun Flower Seed Extraction . 
4 . 20 Sal sced fats and Sal Seed Extraction (pro 

duced by solvont extraction procoss ). 
4 . 21 Parts of dry plants and twigs usod for 

decorative purposes 
4 . 22 Basmati Rice in cooşumcr packs upto 5 Kgs. 
4 . 23 Roasted and saltod Peanuts in consumer 

packs of 1 Kg. 
4 . 24 Extractions of Rape seed /Sesame/SaMower. 
8 . Textlles. 

5 . 1 Carpets , druggets , durries , nåmdbas and rugs. 
5. 2 Woollen ( including Mohair ) and mixed fabrics, 

garments and knitwear. 
5 . 3 Rubberised coir and curled coit. 
5 . 4 Cotton fabrics (other than grey ). Cotton 

garments and made up articles. 
5 . 3 Khadi. 
5 . 6 Mao made fibres/ cord /yam / fabrics (Including 

blonded /mixed ), garments and made op 
articles thereof, 


230 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1- - Sec . 1] 


w 


- 


T 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 16 - Concle . 


5 .7 Natural silk fabrics , farmepts 

articla 


100 made- up 


6 . 2 Precious metal jewellery and cut and poli 

obed synthetic # todos. 


7 . Handicrafts . 

7. 1 Handicratu . 
7. 2 Cut and polished granite . 


5 . 8 The following jute manufactura : 

( a ) Carpet backing . 
(6 ) Decorative and other specialitics . 
( c ) Polyethylene- lined jute bags. 

( d ) Juto ram ,twine. 
5.9 Hosiery . 
5 . 10 Embroidered Fabrico. 
5 .11 Handloom Fabrics, made up articles and 

garmont . 
S . 12 Products from far ibres 


8 . Miscellaneous 


8 . 1 Claematographic Alms (oxposed ) . 
8 . 2 Fabricated mice Including micapite insuladne 

material bonded with synthetic ruins 
8 . 3 Shellac . 


6 . Gem and Jewellery. 
6 . 1 Cut and polished diamonds, precious and 

semi- precious stonos ; polished or procesod 
pearls and imitation and costumo jewellery , 


8 .4 Briquetted lignite and coal. 
8 .5 Minor minerals and ores -- processed . 
8 .6 Poutape stop -ul or unwod . 


[ATTI - 


] 


ATTET HT 1940r mature 


भारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 


231 


_ _ 


SOM 


APPENDIX 17 

(Para 193 of Chapter XIV ) 
IMPORI POLICY FOR REGISTERED EXPORTERS 

GENERAL CONDITIONS 
This Appendix contains the description of export 

4 . Itmay be clarified thatwhere a product exported 
products covered by the import policy for Registered 

in an assembled form is eligible for import replonish 
Exporters, the percentage of import replenishment 

ment under the Import Policy for Registered Expor. 
and materials allowed for import against each pro 

ters , its export in CKD (completely knocked down ) 
duct as well as other conditions relating thereto. 

condition or SKD (semi-knocked down ) condition 
2. The export products have been classified under 

will also qualify for import replenishment. 
various Product Groups such as Engineering Goods, 

5. No imporl of an item appearing in Appendix 
Chemicals and Allied Products and so on . These pro 

2 shall be allowed against REP licences , except 
duct groups have been given alphabetical numbering 

if an item appearing in Appendix 2 Part B is speci 
e .g., A for Engineering Goods etc . Certain product fically described for import either under Col. 4 or 
groups have been sub- divided into broad Categories under Col . 5 or agajnst an Advance/ Imprest Licence 
such as " Ferrous Manufactures" , " Non -ferrous (other issued under this Policy. 
than aluminium ) Semis and Manufacturos" in the 

6 . Wherever " packing materials " is allowed for 
Engineering Group and so on . In each Product import in Col . 4 and the items permitted as packing 
Group /Category, export products have been montion material include paper or card board or plastic 
ed with their Serial Numbers or Sub-serial Numbers. materjals such as LDPE , the licence will also be valid 
In the serial numbering there are certain gaps. Serial for import of " Self adhesive tape " as packing material 
Numbers and Sub -serial Numbers which appeared upto 1 % of the value carmarked for import of packing 
in the earlier policy but which are missing from this materials or Rs. 500 whichever is higher, within the 
policy , have been deleted as export products quali overall value for which packing materials can be 
fying for import replenishment. 

imported against the relevant REP licence. 
3 . Against some of the materials of import men 

7. Where " packing materials" appear in Col. 4 
tioned in Col. 4 or Col. 5 , a percentage figure is without mentioning the particular itoms allowed for 
indicated in brackets. This figure represents the import, the REP licence will be valid for import of 
porcentage of the licence valuc (1.e. REP entitle 

only such packing materials or raw materials required 
ment) upto which import of the material concerned for the manufacture of only such packing materials 
will be allowed . In such cases, the licenco -holder 

as are normally used for packing the relevant export 
can - for more economic ordering/packing/ freight product against which the REP licence , in quostion , 
considerations - import relevant items more in value/ 

bas been issued . 
quantity only upto 5 % of the specified limit , within 
the over-all value of the licence . The value restric 

8 . Against certajd export products, for example 
tions on individual items in Col. 4 or Col. 5 whether Sl. No. A .64, Sl. No. B . 11.1 etc. Col. 4 permits the 
shown as a percentage of the licence value or other 

import of items appearing in the Appendices 3 and 
wise, will not apply in the following cases : 

5 without mentioning the specific itoms. In such 

cases, the export product in Col. 2 covers more than 
(l) where the REP entitlement against quarterly 

one product and it is difficult to mention in Col, 4 
exports for which REP licence is issued , does 

itself the specific items of raw materials and com 
not exceed Rs. 10 ,000 (c.1.f.) in value, or 

ponents which go into the production of each of 
( 11) where the REP entitlemont against half 

the oxport products covered by the particular Serial 
yearly exports for which the REP licence is Number or Sub -serial Number. Therefore , in such 
issued , does not exceed Rs. 20 ,000 (c.i.f.) cases, while applying for REP licence, each exporter 
in value . 

should submit with the import application thc list of 
The relaxaljon in (i) and (li ) above will not be such items as are actually used as raw materials /com 
available for items appearing in Appendices 2 and 5 ponents in the manufacture of the product (s ) exported 
Part B of import solicy . 

except items which have been specifically cxlclu 


232 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART I - Şec . 1] 


APPENDIX 17 - Conid , 


dod lo Col. 4 or Col. s . It should be also opsurod 
that only those items are included in the list which 
are actually used as raw materials and components 
in the manufacture of the relevant product cxported . 
The licensing authority may, after duc scrutiny of 
the list, exclude thorefrom any item which in his 
opinion is not actually used as raw material/ com 
ponent in the manufacture of product ( ) exported . 
If at any time, it is found that an exporter obtained 
REP licence under this provision for an item which 
was not actually used as raw material /component 
for the manufacture of the product exported against 
which the REP licenco was issued , the licenco in ques 
tion , shall be liable to cancellation . If the licence has 
been used by the time the irregularity comes to notice, 
the value of the licence shall be adjusted against the 
import entitlement of the cxporter in any category , 
Those actions will be without prejudice to any other 
action that may be taken in this behalf under the in 
port and export control regulations. 

9. Where import of Acrylic plastic off cuts is allow 
od in Column 4 or Column 5 their size shall not 
be more than 25 cms either in length or width . 

10 . Wherever production of Quality control/ 
Prosbipment Inspection certificate is compulsory as 
per Compulsory Export Quality Control and Ins 
pection Act 1963 or any other statute, the registered 
exportor shall produce such certificate while claim 


Ing replenishment benefits under this Policy . Whero 
such inspection is not compulsory as above, cxporters 
may approach the Export Inspection Agency or 
other statutory agencies concerned on voluntary 
basis, for issue of such certificates. Wherever Test 
cortificates are required showing the quality and con 
tents of the different materials constituting the export 
products , such certificates will also be furnished by 
tho exporters. The grant of REP licences will be 
subject to the production of these certificates, where 
ever applicable. This provision will also apply to 
grant of REP licences on supplios of indigenous 
materials against valid Import licences in terms of 
para 152 of this Policy . 

11. In respect of carbon steel and alloy steel 
wherever allowed in Column 4 and Column 5 against 
various products in this Appendix , the following 
clarifications are made : - - 
(a ) Wherever CRCA sheets are permitted , the 

samo shall be understood to mean Carbon 

Steel CRÇA sheets only . 
(b ) Wherover as per provisions of Appendix 17 

of this policy stainless steel coils/strips/sheets/ 
Circles are imported it would be in cold rol 

led condition only. 
(c ) High Carbon shall mean carbon contents 

0 .6 % and above. 


STATEMENT OF IMPORT REPLENISHMENT 


Y 


- 


Sl. No 


Export Product 


Materials permitted for import 


Remark , 


Import 
roplenish 
Iron 
percentage 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- , - - - - - - - 2 - - - - -- 
A . ENGINEERING GOODS 


Yu 


Gonøral Notos - 
( 1) La case of 

Engineerlog 
products listod in Appon 
dix 17 whoro undor Column 
4 import of stool/ Pig Iron 
is allowed and such items 
are covered by Price Pro 
tection Schomo/ Internatio 
nal Price Reimbursement 
Schome 1981 and where 
the exporter of stcel pro 
ducts claims relmbursc 
mont for those Items undor 
tho Suld schones , he will 
be entitled to claim impon 
roplopishmont only for 
Itoms other than those 
covered by the said 
schemes. The rate of im 
port roplonishment will be 
as mentioned against the 
rospective ȘI. No in . 
Annexure to Appendix 17 . 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[YT ! ( - - 13 1 ] 


भारत का राजपन्न : असाधारण 


233 


APPENDIX 17 - Conra . 


2 


A . ENGINEERING GOODS - Contd . 


( 2) In Ort of Heat Redstnt 

Stainless Stool, and High 
Speed Stoel in any form /iba " 
pe and seamless stool tubo 
and pipal 18 appearing in 
Appendix 3 will not be 
allowed on REP liccnicos 
unless specifically mentio 
nod lo column 4 against 
specified product group in 
Appendix 17. 


L FERROUS MANUFACTURES 
A .1 (1) Carbon stool forglage 


40 % 


( II) Alloy stool forslag 


40 % 


(a ) Forglag quality Carbon 

steel (with less than 0 . 6 % 
curbon) to blooms, billet 

and bars . 
(a) Forging quality alloy stool 

in blooms, billots and bars 
( excluding Stainless / Heat 
resisting steel and High 
spoed steel) . 


A . 4 


Stoel Wiro and products made of 

Auch wiro - 
(a) Higb Carbon Steel Wire and pro 

ducts thoroof 1 


(1 ) Galvanlaod / Blectroplated /Copper 

copted /Bronze coated . 


40 % 


(a ) Zing (for talvepisod ) (35 % . 
(6 ) Nickel (for oloctroplato ) (33 % ) . 
(c) Copper sulphate ( for cop 

por coatod /bronzo coated ). 
(d ) Raw Manlla Hemp ( Fibre )/ 

Raw Staal Fibro . 


(c ) Carbon Stool having carbon 

content 0 . 6 % and abovo (60 % ). 
(a ) Carbon steel having carbon 

content 0 . 6 % and above, 


(M ) Ungalvanised and ancoated 


: 20 % 


(5 ) Steel Wire Ropa 

(1) Galvanised /electroplated 


. 


33 % 


(a ) Samo as against Sl. No. 

A . 4 ( a ) (1 ) abovo . 


(11) Uogalvanised and uncoated 


20 % 


20 % 


(a ) Carbon stool having aabbon 

content 0 . 6 % and abovo . 


(c) Cacbon staalwaldod wire mesh 


40 % 


( a ) Carbon steel wiro rods with 

carbon contoot lose than 
0 . 6 % 


(1 ) Import of Zing to the 

extent of 10 % of the face 
value of the Hocnce will 
be allowod agalost export 
of Galvanised Carbon 
Steel welded wiro mosh 


( ) Otheti l 

(1) Galvanised 


. 


. 


. 


10 % 


(a ) Zlac . 
(b ) Raw Maplla Hemp ( Fibre )/ 

Raw Slgal Fibre 


(1 ) Copper oortod 


. 


· 


10 % 


(a ) Copper sulphato . 
(1 ) Raw Manla Homp (Plbre )/ 

Raw Sisal Fibro . 


Opeo top saoltary contaloons 


40 % 


(a ) Tin plato , prime OTS quality / 

M .R . Typo . 
(6) TIn (30. 
(c) Load of 99. 9T% and above 

purity (5 % ). 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


PMT=YU 


58 GI/ 85 — 16 . 


234 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I- SEC . 1] 


ST 


APPENDIX 11 - Luan. 


L FERROUS MANUFACTURİS-- concld . 


Other ferrous manufacturer - 

(1 ) Steci pipe and toba . 


. 


. 877 


(11) Other - Galvanised /Electroplated 


10 % 


(u ) Hot rollo carbon ster ! ( 1) Import of doc will be 
utripu / colle . 

allowed to the extopt of 
20 % of the fo. b . Valo 
withlo to overall replanie 
ment against cxport of me 

vanised steel plper and tuba . 
(a ) zinc (for galvanisod ). (1) A galnut sports of Nylon 
b ) Nickol (for electroplatod ). Insort (“ Nyloo" ) — Solf 

locking nuts, atool look out 
and wheel nuts , an addition 
Ral 30 % Import replenis 
ment shall be availablo foi 
Impon of sulphur board 

Irm outting steel only . 
(a ) trop Powder . 
(1 ) Titanlum dloddo (207 ). 
4 ) Cold Hoading Quality Stool 

Wire Rod lo colls. 
Wh ) Alloy Stoel wiro Rods (90 % ) 
( a ) Carbon tool/High tooille 

steel structoral . 
(H) Zino (307). 


(11 ) Arc weldlog cloctrodou 


102 


( fv ) High Tongllo 

Fastcnor , 


Procluice 


Industrial 30 % 


(v ) Trasmission Llog Tron (Gamolej 


907 


Cutbun Stool ure and product me of 
such wro - 
(1) Galvadlaed /Blectroplotn : 


109 


(a ) Zino (for galvanised ). 
* ) Nickel (for electroplated ). 
(6 ) Coppor viro dort 


(11) Copper punted 
Freight containere . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 10 % 
. 2011 


(0 ) Motal fittiapy , palato , stool 

Item : lo Appendice 3 and 


( 1 ) Ploago Bee pard 8 or 

General Condition la thly 
Appendia , 


(0 ) Coroor castags. 
(c) Dootlocking mechanism . 


Manufacturos cf Carbon and # Boy in 

and optog stele . 


20 % 


(W ) Nictoi. 

( 1 ) lapon of Low carbon 
(5 ) Heavy urolog ecrap . 

forro - chromo (0 , 03 % to 0 . 1 % 
(0) Low carbon forro -chrom carbon max .) will bo allowod 

(0 .03 to 0 . 1 % cachon max .) only agalost export of alloy 
( J ) Land (10 % ) . 

stools Including alloy spray 
stool , 


11. ALUMINUM SEMIS AND MANUFACTURES 

THERCOF 


Alumlada) seal and 


uragaro Thonor $07 


( a ) Alamintom /Almuniatum 

rodi. 


I . NON -FERROUS (OTHER THAN ALUMINIUM ) 

SEMIS AND MANUFACTURES 


Non -ferrous nam MJ trudime from 
(i) Lill Somla /e- tuye lader wirom 


PEN 
I 


(1 ) (a ) Semals /citrusin of in VIA 

Coppor priting List 
( ! ) Kotilaatinio mpper vor 


* 


( a ) Pig Lead ar 99 ,917 and (1 ) Import of the will be allo 
above nority . 

wed up to 50 % of the REP 
a ) Coppy olre born /wire rode . Sontitlement withio the over 

all value of thollconco only 
(m ? ( rper wito burro rode Agalost a ports of older 

wirot 
( ; W ( 40 . 
10 T (1077 . 


nyos 


( 98 ( 


1) 


भारत का राजपत्र . असाधारण 


235 


APPENDIX 17 - Conta , 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- - 


- - - - - - 


- - - 


- - 


- - - - 


- - - 


(II. NON -FERROUS (OTHER THAN ALUMINIUM ) 

SEMIS AND MANUFACUTRES Concld 


Other Non - forrous Manufactarou ( exclud . 

lag ladustrial valvou ) 


307 


( 0 ) Copper vlto barn /wire rody (1 ) For the purpose of onico 
(60 % ). 

fatlog REP benefits agalost 
(1) Zinc ( 40 % ) 

oxport of silver brazing 
(c) Tin (10 ) . 

alloy lo the form of rodo7 
( d ) Nickel (20 % ). 

sticks cut to size contalolog 
oot idoro than 50 % silver , 
the licensing authority will 
oxcludo tho value of silver 
from tho f. o . b . value of tho 
oxport product . The balado 
1. o . b . value of export 
will only be eligblo for REP 
benefits , otherwise ad . 
alssiblo under the policy . 
Applications should be 
Lacompanlod by a Charter 
od Aocouatant or a Govorn 
wont laboratory certificate 
Indicating the quantity of 
sllvor contont and its value 
wood in the export produot 
baaod on whicb the Vicons 
ing authority will work out 
tho REP ontitlement aftor 
encluding the value of all 
vor . It lo clarifiod that if the 
oxportod dvor brazlog 
nlloy lo tpo forin of rods / 
sticks cut to size contalo 
more than 50 % alvor by 
wolgbt, po RBP banofits will 
bo adminiblo thoroon . 


( 2 ) Exporter of EPNS Waral , 

who aro rogistered with 
Developmont Commiunonor 
for Handicrafts , will not be 
roquired to bo roglstorod 
soparatoly with Enginoorlog 
Bxport Promotion Council . 


( 3) Import of Nickel will be 

allowed only against axport 
of (1) EPNS wares and (2 ) 
Nickol plated non - ferroom 
manufactura cororod by 

l Sort No. 


IV , ELECTRICAL MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT 

AND APPARATUS 


A . 21 


6 % 


All -conditioning and cofrigeration qui 
Want, Humidification , Vantilation Lad alr 
control equipmeot and spare part 
thoroof 


( a ) RodparaAN , 
( CRCA shoota ( 25 % ) 
( c) Zlpc. 

Stalolos steel odoota 0 . 911 
mm to 0 . 914 mm and 2 . 11 
com (against exports of 
water cool und frozent 
only ). 


( 1 ) 

otport of " All 
conditioning and Refri 
goration oqulpmont, com 
prawon and spare parts 
thorcor" , the import 
replanubment U bo 
20 % and import of 
Copper wlading viros 
( 50 % ) 11 bo lovod 
to addidon to other matorials 
pornoittod for frport in 
colum . 


( 8) G . P Sheets Strips /Colls 

will be allowed (25 % 
against exports of Ice mak : 
lng machines /plants only 
within the overall valueof 
the licence . 


TH 


Kravu 


236 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SEC . 1] 


APPENDIX 17 — Contd . 


- 


- 


- - 


- VYA1 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


Am - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


IV , ELECTRICAL MACHINERY,EQUIPMENT 

AND APPARATUS - contd . 


A .22 


Power equipment including alternaton , 

gonoratora, transformors , switch gear 
and control gear, motors , rectifier and 
power capacitors --- 
(1) Rotating electrical equipment 


20 % 


(I ) Transformers 


non 


. 


. 


. 


. 30 % 


( 1 ) Against axport or aparut 

components of the expu . ! 
products to Column 2 . 

import replonishment will 
( a ) Hot rollod dyoamogrado be allowed at the rate 

electrical steel shoots /Coils , mentionod lo column 3 

Copper wiro bars /Wire rods . and the material por 
( c) Winding wires /strips ( 50 % * ). mitted for Import will be 
(a ) Cold rolled grain oriented thoso apearing in Appondi 

electrical steel sheets/Colls . dices 3 and 3 excluding elec 
(b ) Coppor wire bars/wire roda . trunic Items. Please seo para 
(c ) Winding wlros /strip : ( 50 % ) . 8 of General Condition 11 
(d ) Transformer Oll . 

this Appendix 
(. ) Carbon Stecl Platos. 
(a ) Coppa ! mboots /strips as lo ( 2 ) Agatusi exporre covered by 
Appendix 3 . 

Sl. No . A . 22 (lv ) import 
(6 ) Transformer Oil 

roplonishment applica 
(c) CRCA Sheets/Strip (10 % ) tions should be accom 
( a ) Platinum . 

panied by the doolaration 
(b ) Palladium 

of the manufacturer of 
(c ) Copper wird N . 

the product exported 
( 1 ) Nickel virg ! sorap . 

as to the item (s ) to Col. 
( Caorluno Oxicle. 

4 used in its manufact 
ture . The said list wl]] 
be attached to the licence 
phen It li luod . 


10 % 


(HI) Switch gear , control gear, rocti - 

flors , power capacitons and lightning 
# restого . 


(I ) Bloctrical contact: made of Plati- 3 % 

num /palladium /silver alloy or 
Silver /bimetal contactu . 


A .23 


Dry battories and Storage batterien for 

(1) Dry batteries . . 
(II) Storage batterton . 


. 23 % 

30 % 


A 24 


(1) Aluminium Conductor tool rela - 

forced (ACSR ). 


304 


(a) Zino. 
(a) Load or 99 . 97 % and above 

purity . 
(b ) Antimony 
(q ) Zinc 
( ) Higb carbon stcol (10 % . 

wire rods . 
(c) Aluminium /Aluminia rods. 
(a ) Alonsolun Alunolar rode . 


(H ) AU Alumlolum Conductoru (AAC). 60 % 


Lagulated Aluminium Cables and power 90 % 

cablon with aluminium conductor 600 / 
100 volts and above (1 . 0 KV and above ). 


(a ) Load of 99 97 % and above 

purlty (10 % ) . 
(6 ) Aluminium Alulaium rode 


A . 26 


Insalated Copper Cables , all typu 
(1) Dry more telepbone cable /costal 

vables , 


30 % 


(#1) Other 


. 


. 


. 


. 60 % 


(c ) Coppar oro ban / wire rods. 
( ) Lead of 99 .97% and above 

purity ( 20 % ). 
(a ) Copper vlry bers /wire rods. 
(6 ) Load of 99 . 97 % and abova 

purity (20 % ) . 
( ) Tla (1072 ). 


A . 27 


Plectrlo tans (including fras in CKD 

condition ) . 


20 % 


Copper wire bars /wlro rods 

(50 % ). 
( 0 ) Winding vim ( 907)). 
(0 ) Dynamo grado Olectrical 

stool shoots / coll 
( A) Bodovla Appendix 3 

(20 A . 


(1) Import of bearlugs appea 
rlog in Appendix 2 - Part B 
with SKP or equivalent 
Nos . 6201, 6202 , 6203 , 6204 
and 6206 as used (ope 
or two In a faq as the case 
may he ) will be allowed 
withio ovorall replenishment 
against export of cloctrie fans . 


- 


- - 


TAG 


- - 


- - 


- TLL 


T 


भारत का राजपत अमाधारण 


237 


[ATTI _ 

- - 


1] 
- - - - - - - 


- - - 


APPENDIX 17- - Conta, 


- - - 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 
IV . ELECTRICAL MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT 

AND APPARATUS - - concld . 
A . 28 

Electrical violog accessories locłudios 

clootric dritches . 


10 % 


(a ) Copper witc bars/wire rods, (1 ) For the purpose of calcula 
( ) Zinc 

ting tho REP benefits again . 
( c) Eleculcal stool shocta quils , et exports of micro -switches 

with silver / silvor alloy con 
tacts , thc loanstug authority 
will cxclude the valuo of 
silver from the f. o . b . valuo 
of oxport product. Tho 
bulanoe f.o .b . value of 
oxports will only bo 
oligible for REP bonofits , 
fotborwigo admlasblo 
uoder the policy . Appllos 
tions should be accompa 
nied by a Chartered 
Acouuntant or å Gover 
Macat Laboratory Cortificato 
Indicating the quantity of 
vilvor cooteat and its valuo 
unod lo tho export product 
based on which the 
Licensing authority will 
work out the RBP ontitic 
mont aftor Oxcluding the 
value of silver . It is clari 
fioc that if tho exportod 
Micro Switches with silver / 
silver alloy contacto con 
talo more than 50 % silver 
by weight, oo RĘP bonefta 

will be admissible tharcor . 
(a ) Meat resistant stalolos 

gtool shoots. 


A . 31 


Tubular sheath typo beating slomonte 


10 % 


V . ELECTRONIC AND TELECOMMUNICATION 

EQUIPMENT, INSTRUMENTS , APPARTU AND 

APPLIANCES 
A . 35 All Blectivos Itoos/cgulp . eaf /systems/ 

coinponents focluding rape Dock Mechu . 
nisrn , computer qystems/ poripherals / Dig 1 11 
wotches , clocks and timo ploce 


20 % 


(a ) Spocial production alde for ( 1 ) The Registering Authonty 

electronics industry , namely for Cassettes /Cartridges , 
Wiapping and in-wrap Pre-recordod Cassettes 
play tools , aligomg tools , Cartridgo: and Pro -recorded 
dosoldering tools 1. C . Es Video - Cassettes will be the 
tractor ( 20 % ) . 

Plastlos and Ligoloum Ex 

port Promotion Council 
(0 ) Passive components (Rosiy 

tors/capacitora of all kinds ) ( 2 ) Against the export of casse 
( 30 % ) 

ttes /cartridges , pro - rocord 

od casgottes / cartridges , in 
( c ) Active components ( Trad purt of audio Degnotic 

istors , diodos , other semi tapos . blank cassottos / car 
conductor Jovicos , valves , trldgos and parts thorool 
Integrated Circuite ) (30 % ). will be allowed without any 

face valuo restriction . 
( J ) Any other tons of clectro Against the otport of pre 

oic components and raw recordod video cassotto , 
materialı , Appearing lo Import of video megotic 
Appondloos 3 and 3 tape will be allowed ylth 
In the Import - Export out any face value rostrlo . 
Polloy wed in the manu ton within the overall 
fucture of glectronic Items 1:10 of the llodaci 
(204 

( 3 ) Avainst the export of pro 

teselona ) olectronto oqwp 
duont and Instruments , lm 
port roplenishment will be 
Alloved at the rake of 
30 % 
Lipport of picture luhey will 
be allowed poly against 

# sport of Polovinius st 
(0 ) Nick . 


1972 


A37 

Portuan Magixto 
VL MACHINE TO8 
A . 46 MACO Tools, wd tych And60 

08X , Pontroll, 


- 


Bind 


8 


) Itunn lo Appendica 3 cod ( 1) Ploak wc para 8 of G . 00 

excluding alocuroala imino al Condidwes lo ha 
and Iron and steel items. Appandır. 


- -- - 


-- - - - - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


-- - 


- - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


238 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - Sec . 1] 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDLX 17 - Conta , 


JA 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- raw 


- - - 
VL MACHINE TOOLS - - concld . 


(1 ) Eloctronio Items in Appon 

diz 3 excluding thoso 
covered by Entry No . 609 
und 610 of Appendix 3 and 
No oxcluding the following 
itoms oovorod by Entry No 
607 lo Appendix 3 ( 10 % 
V ) Audio pagocto tape 

In tools , cassettes, Jumto 
rolly , bubs , cartridge 
uod pan oakes and la 
Any other forma , exclav 
10g 35 mm od 10 to 

aprookolad lapas . 

(W ) TV hapon . 
(c ) Iron and Stoolltopa Ip AD 

popdiz S-Pen A ( 13 % 


VI . ULAND TOOLS AND SMALL TOOLS 
A .50 Hand Tools includiag drop forged hand 3 % 

tools . 


( ) Nickel . 


31 


Small and Cutting Tools 


( ) Cutting tools wholly or partly made of 40 % 

Higb # poed stool 


( ) Highs 

squaros 
ipah ( 

N 


c hool fans , 
/ rounds la apy 
obuh gen ). 


(1 ) Wood working havs 


40 % 


(a ) Aleh cubu (0 . 6 % al 

bon and above ) bardoped 
and tom porod itaal stripe 

for my blade . 
(0 ) Prodles and section of 

arbon/ Alloy Steel 


( III ) Stcol Files 


VID , INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES , PUMPS 

AND COMPRESSORS 


4.36 


foternal Combustion engines, pumps and 15 % 

compraron , all typo . 


(a ) Itamo to Appondlom 3 

and Soxcluding - 
( ) High upood stools ; 
(u ) Stalnlose stoel la iny 

form ; and 
( W ) Elootronic Itoms lo 

Appoodiode 3 and 


(6 ) Plytron (10 % . 


(1) Please noc para 8 of "Genenus 

Conditions to this Appondie . 
Import of Iron end too ) 
Items covered by itom (a ) 
In Column 4 sball be allowed 
only upto 20 % of the licence 
value within ibo value of the 

Hotoo . 
0 ) Against axports of spara / 

oompodonts of the aport 
product to column 2 , 
Import roplenishment will 
be allowed at the reto 
wandoned In Column 3 
and the matorlalı parmittod 
for import will be thoso 
appearing in Appondkoos 3 
und 3 ( oxcluding electrodlo 
Item ). Plaas voo para 8 of 
Gancral Conditioo lp ibu 
Appeadh . 


( 3 ) A pst otport of Pump 

to end complesson itted 
with eloctrlo potonu 
primo ovora noludio 
monoblock pump. Impon 
replauwhatat 20 % of the 
1. 0 .b . u of uxport to 
be allove . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[YTTITT 11 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


239 


-- = - --* 


APPENDLX 17 - Conrd . 


- - 


- wm 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - IL 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


X . INDUSTRIAI, MACHINERY 


4 . 64 


(1) Industrial machloory , compotiontu apd 

4pasar bercol. 


13 % 


( a ) Itep 

and 


3 


in Appendices 
3 °çtu : 1918 


W High speed steels ; 
( lt ) Stirnless stoel in any forro ; 
fill) Elecronic Item : ood 
(IT ) Titaarum , Ilium loy . 


( 1 ) Please uro para 8 of General 

Conditions in this Appony 
dix . Import of Iron and 
Stol items covered by item 
( a ) in column 4 shall be 
allowed only upto 50 % of 
the licence valuo within the 
valuo of the licence 


8 ) Electroalc iter * ! Appen . 

dix 3 xchuding 4297 
covered by Liaty 609 of 
Appendix 3 and 0180 cm 
duding the fortowing items 
chyered by Entry lo . 607 

lu ApXndix 3 (19 % ) : 
(1 ) Audiomagnetic lines .IN 
rools , cassettce , jun . 

b rolis , 
bobs , cartridges and pan 
ankok , and in acy other 
form , ozcilor 35 mm uad 

16 ur procketod tape . 
(I ) TV art. 


(2 ) Against export of sparcs ! 

components of the oxport 
product in column 2 , 
impurt roplenishment will 
be allowed at the rate 
Inentioned in colur : 3 
and the materials permitted 
will bo tho90 appearing 
in Aprendices 3 and 5 
(excluding olectronic items) 
Please 404 Page 8 of 
Goneral conditions in this 
Appendix . 


( IN ) katoru lodi oirculte , 


(10 ) Bouers 


( 0 ) Por porer roontlos 


10 ! 


( a ) fton fru Appendic 3 And o ) Pleesce para 8 of General 

oxcluung Titaniunuta - Corditions in this Appen . 
nii alloya 41: 41 plectroric dix . In port of Iron and Steel 
Iteml. 

items covered by iton (a ) 
Electronic teras in Appon - In Column 4 sball be allowed 
di 3 oroluding bose only upto 20 % of the licenco 
covered the entry No 609 value within the value of tho 
Mod 010 in Appendix 3 And Vcepce . 
Io oczdlog the following 
# DA COYOTA by Futry 
No. 607 In Appor 314 


Audio ma notic LAY ( 11 

els, Lesuottes , jumb olls , 
# uts , cortridget pas 

c# , and in tay uthar 
form , ozoludioz m iod 

45 mna sprchrted tapek . 
(II) TV tuner . 


6 ) bistegrated circulis . 


Đ Qui . 


( o ) Vamo es Item (a ) against (1 ) Same as Column $ Remark 
# 1. NO. 4 .641) abovo. 

( 1 ) against Sl. No . A 6461 
above , 


1 MOTOR VEHICLES AND AUTOMOBILA 

ANCILLARIKA 


4 . 70 


(1 ) Pagongor Chr? tracks , malos wagodi, 

busos , tompot, Joops , motor-ayolça , 
mootort, mopods, throwbaclori ad 
other motor robicle including tracton , 


( a ) Ape Apreadcut 3 ( 1) Plcasc so pra 8 of "Generat 
Dr Sarudin 

Conditions in this Appen 

dix . Tarport of Iron and Steel 
( 0) 1 * tos ; 

Items Covered by item (a ) 
UI) inimestea la any form ; in Column 4 shall be allowed 

only upto 50 % of the 
( M ) 2010alc * 

licenco voluo within the waia . 
( A ) Riccione Italino APPN of the licenco . 

dix 1 excluding itons Against exports of spares / 
Cororou by Botry No 609 components of the export 
w Appeod . 3 And also products other than 
kichudlaa the following Radiator lo column 2 , 
Hef anyorod by Antry loiport roplenisbmart will 
W9 01 Appali ] bo allowed at the rato 

Montioned in colomb 3 


( 2 ) 


240 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : CXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - Scc. 1] 


" PPENDIX 11 - Conid . 


XL. MOTOR VEHICLES AND AUTOMOBILES 

ANCILLARIES - conclu . 


(1) Audio magnetic tapes in 

reels, cassettos, jumbo rolls , 
hubs , cartridges and pan 
cakos, and in any other 
form oxcluding 35 mm and 

16mm strocketed tape. 
( II ) TV tuners . 
( III ) Integrated circuits , 


and the materials permit 
tod for import will be those 
appearing in Appendices 3 
and 5 (oxcluding eloctronic 
itoms). Please see para 8 of 
"Goneral conditions in this 
Appendix , 


(1 ) 


Rear Axle Shafts , 


40 % 


( 0 ) Forged quality Carbon Steel 

(with loss than 0 . 6 % Carbon ) 
in blooms, blllots and bars . 


(IN ) 


Radiators 


30 % 


(@ ) Soldor Wiro . 
(b ) Torno shoots /plates . 
(c ) Copper / Brass strips /foils 

0 , 06 min and abovo ( 75 % . 


A 71 


Blectrically drived two vbeclor and three 30 % 

whoclor soooten . 


(a ) (tome lo Appendlocs 3 add 

3 saluding 


( ) High Spood Steels ; 
( II ) Stainless stool in any form ; 

and 
( ill ) Electronic items. 


(1) Please see para 8 of Goneral 

Conditiona lo this Appendo ; 
Import of Iron and Steel 
(toms covered by item ( a ) 
in Column 4 shall be allowed 
only upto 20 % of the 
Uconce value within the value 
of the liooooo . 


XII. RAILWAY EQUIPMENTS 


A .13 


(1) Rallway Coaches and Wagon, Inclu - 20 % 

diag Tram cars . 


(U ) Ralway olectric sigoulling equipmont 12 % 


( 0 ) Carbon Scal Platos / Shoots . (1 ) Against oxports of xxar ON / 
( 90 % ) 

components of the export 
Boardags in Appendix 3 product in columo 2 , 
(20 % ). 

Import replenisbunant vi 
1) Copper wire bars (80 ) be allowed at the fato 
Carbon Steel ( 30 % 

mendoped in columo 3 
and the materials permit 
ted for Import will be thoso 
appearing in Appondica 
3 and 3 ( excluding 
plectronic ftoms). Plohn 
Ico part 8 of "Got . 
aral Condition 1094 
Appendit 


XIIL, WATER TRANSPORT EQUIPMENT 


A . 78 


Wator Transport Equipment 


- 


20 % 


(a) Carbon Stool Platos ( 50 % ) 
(1) Ship bulldog quality stool. 


A , 79 


Plbroglass roloforood hond 


, 


10 


(a) Synthetic Rhodos. 


XIV . LIGHT ENGINEERING GOODS AND ALL 

OTHER ENGINEERING MANUFACTURES 


A . 12 


(1) Blaycla , 1 typu ( otbor a tpoolal ) 
nodots and Sports Light Roadster ), 
bicycle compongota and coorlos ; 
Bicyolo Rickshaw and their popponcats / ) 
Acc ssorios all type 


( a ) Carhon tual shot /utripul ( 1) Additional Import roplati.. 
colls (40 % ). 

mont # 1 21 % of the fo .b , 
(0 ) Spoka and nipplas ( 10 % ) . value of diporto 51 ha 

Blootroplating to end allowed for import of the 
brightonon , 

folloving homs spalat 
Nlokol/ 8 , Nickol. 

ports of Dorelos Light 
Tlaplata Hoonda /w001 Roadstar (SL model) and 
daria (579 

other Spodal Mode 

(0 ) Ti 14 # 1 

(HIEDOT 
- , - 


osose 


23 % 


(l ) Bicyalo SpecialModels naladag Sports 

Llobt Hondetur ( LR model) 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - -- - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


[4477I 


ar 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


241 


TL 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 17 - Cond. 


I 


* * 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


XIV . LIGIIT ENGINEERING GOODS AND ALL 

OTHER ENGINEERING MANUFACTURES - - cond. 


V Bronze Powder (21 % ). 
( p ) Zinc ( 10 % ) 
( h ) Roflectors for bicycles . 
( 1) Bicycle dynamo set toclu 

ding lamps ( 10 % ) . 
( ) Packing materials , viz. 

Low density polyothylene 
moulding powdør ( 10 % ). 

Kraft paper , 
(1 ) Copper wire bars (10 % ). 
(0) Free cutting stcol wire rods . 
(m ) ERW Carbon Steel Pipes 

and Tubos , 
(n ) 12 V gas filled bulbs . 


(II) Multiple speed hubu 

alloy hubs, derailleun , 
and Accessories , conster 

hubs ; and 
(Iv)High Carbon Galvanised 

cord of 1 . 0 mm to 4 . 5 
om . This will be sub 
ject to the condition 
obat for each suab 
bicycle exportod oot 
more than ( 0¢ pair of 
tyres and tubes , 0110 
pair of rims and ODO 
multispood hub only will 

bo Allowod for Import 
(2 ) If Acousgories are oxportad de 

penately and not along with 
the bicycle etc . covered by 
this Sl. No, import of only 
those items out of column 
4 , as aro doclared by the 
exporter concerned to have 
boep usod in the product 
oxportod , will be allowed . 
The list of items should 
accompany the application , 
Plauso algo vo para 8 of 
Gonoral Conditions 5 

thle Appondix . 
( 3) Import of Bicyclo Dynamo 

sets including lamps will 
be allowed on net to 
not basis only against 
export of Bicycles with 
Dynamo sots including 
lamps . 


A .84 


(I) Wick stoves made of brass 
( 1 ) Gas Mantels 


- 


10 % 
13 % 


A .85 


Pressure Lamps, Stoves and blow lamp 


- 


30 % 


( a ) zina , 
(a ) Tborum Nitrato » ith 1 % 

Corum Nitrate 
(a ) Copper wire bar . (7002 . 
(0 ) Zinc ( 30 % ) . 
| Tin (SZ . 

Land of 99 .97 % and abovo 

purity ( 5 % ). 
(@) Bronzo Powder (3 % . 


399 


(1) Agulnst the exports of 

bumon , import replenish 
ment at 5 % will be allo 
wed for indport of Itoms 
appearing in Appendicos 3 
and 3 axcluding olootronic 
Itoms, Pleso voo para 8 
of Godoral Conditions in 
this appendi.. 


4 .8T 


Hoslery and knitting machine neodla 


6 % 


( a ) Eloctroplatng salts and 

brightonen . 
(6 ) Puoking watertal, 
(0) CRCA shoot 


4 . 89 


6 % 


A .90 


Potroleum moterlog and dlapoosing purup 
Powor transmloxon Vac, bardware tools and 

8.000Horlat 
(1) Photographala Camera 


6 % 


A . 93 


(a) Zias 
( a ) Brun stripe . 

Lear houd sort . 
Ilargonal auto. 
Throndod Plo /Hollov Pla / 
Dovel Ple 
Stalolo tool roda, 

M .8 . Rods/ Froo cutting steel 
(a ) Itam , lo Appondioca 3 

ad 3 


15 % 


(1 ) Cloomatographic oquipocot lachichi 

cinematographlc sound and proici un 
equipment, component and sparer 
thoroof, 


(20 % ) . 
1) Please soc para 8 of Gonoral 

Conditions in this Appon 
dix . Import of Iron and 
Stool itoms covered by 
Itom (a ) in column 4 shal 
be allowed only upto 
15 % of the licence valuo 
within the valuo of the 
liconco . 


- _ 11 RM 


242 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SEC . 1 ] 


= 


- 


- - 


- - 


= 


= - - 


= - - 


eve 


- 


APPENDIX 17 - Contd. 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


2 


( 50 % 


4 . 96 


XIV . LIGHT ENGINEERING GOODS AND ALL 

OTHER ENGINEERING MANUFACTURE9 - Concld . 
A . 94 Sowing machines 8 % (a ) Pig Iron / Carbon steel shcots (1) Agalnst exports of sparos / 

components of the export 
(b) Bloctroplating sults and product lo Col. 2 . import 
brighteners. 

roplenishment will be allo 
(c ) Bronzo Powder ( 50 % ) . 

wed at the rato montioned 
( d ) Froo cutting stool (25 % ). 

in column 3 and the materials 
(2 ) Alloy stool wiro rods 

permittod for Import will be 
thoso appearing in Appen 
dlocs 3 and 5 excluding cloc 
froolc Itoms. Ploago koc para 
8 of General Conditions in 

this Appendix 
ledustrial valvu , el typu . , 107 ( a ) Copper wire bars ( 10 % ) . 

(b ) Tla . 

(c ) Złoc (30 % . 
Baap Iunien (metallo ) . . . 20 % (a ) Phosphor Broare pro . 

(0) Brass stripe 
A . 91 Masarlog tape , pe rulon , all type 20 % (0 ) Copper wiro ben (10 % ) 

(6 ) Zinc (30 % 
( c ) Acrylio palni, 
( d ) CR Steel Strips dot axcooling 

100 cm width . 
Umbrella . . . . . 20A (a ) Umbrala ibu ind compo 

acott , 
( )) Waterproof Nylon 

Umbrella olotb 

(0) Nicka . 
4 . 100 (1) Watches achading digital catcher 6 % (a ) Stalalow stool sun 

( ) Lubricating oil. 
(1 ) Clooks und Tlm , ploou ozdodb 6 % ( a) Bloctroplatag salu . 
digital clochu nad Tlue ploce . 

(0 ) CRCA shoota ( 10 

(a ) Lubricating oil . 
A . 101 Timing chalm , , , , , 30 % 

(a ) CRCA stripe Dot « Ichodlag 

100 mm width . 
(1 ) Hardened and operad 

ourbox tool doo 
(0 ) Alloy pa roda. 


90 


Xy. MBOELLANBOUD 
4 . 102 Other an placeras products f10f Olsubor 

speciflod . 


1 % 


( a ) Itoms appearing in Appon - ( 1 ) Ploase sce para 9 of Ceno 

dloul 3 and 3 cluding cal Conditions in the 
electroplo ſtoma 

Appendly . 


L CARMICALS AND ALLIED PRODUCTS 


Guwral Now 
( 1) Import of Formolo Acid 

will not bo dlowod wharo 
Item appoering in Appen 
dix 3 or Appondly 3 are 

lowod with panoric da . 
aription in Col. 4 ugaldut 
the vulon products, 


1. QHAMICALS AND CHEMICAJ, PRODUCTS 

Loorganic Chemical 
2 .1 . 1 

Bonax und Borld Add . . . 


. 80 % 


L1. 1 


Cooper. 30 


Inorpanlo ohemlonda bund on 

Lud, Zing ud Mercury 


Rotodio (Crudo bodian 
Bonto ), 
Colomsolt (Crude 
olup Bonto ) 

Copper oro bari. 
O Land . 
( ) Zlac, 
(d ) Mergury . 


( 1) Only those item from COL 4 

Il be allowed for Import 
* * S rolovánt to the pro 
duct exported . 


- - 


- 


- 


V . 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


[ATT I – V 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : मसाधारण 


243 


APPENDIX 17 - Conid . 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


+ 


1 


- 14 - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - --- - -- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( o ) Polyethylene moulding 

powder (HDPB) . 


CHEMICALS AND CHEMICAL PRODUCTS - Concid . . 
9 . 1 . 4 Other Inorganic chemicals - - 

(0 ) Bleaching powder (Stablo ) 
( a ) oxported in Polyothylone ar- 10 % 

boyn /HDPE bag (Polystby 

long woven ban ). 
( b ) cxported in stool drumi . , 15 % 
(4 ) Hydrochlorio Acid 

(a) exported to Polyethylen . ar 10 % 

(*) sported in soul drum . 13 % 
(10 ) Sulphuric acid . . . . 6 % 


(o ) CRCA steci shou 24G (BP) 


boys. 


( ) Polyethyleno moulding 

powder (HDPE ). 
( a ) CRCA stool shoot 180 (BP ) 
( 0 ) Polyethylco moulding 

Porder (HDPR ), 
(1 ) Sulphur . 
( a ) Sulphur . 
( a ) Sulphur. 
(a) Salphor, 


(I. ) Tluslam Dioxide (ARM prodo). 10 % 
( 1 ) Alors . . . . . . 674 
( 7 ) Aluminium Buphere . . 6 % 

( Alumon Ferro) 
(v1) Fortous Sulphalo (Tochar] . 67 
( valt ) Pompium perdagaash , . 108 


( 0) Sulphur. 

Asbesto Cloth / Polypropylen 
Alter cloth (25 % . 

CRCA Shoot# (75 % ) . 
(0 ) Sulpbur 


له 
(1) 


. 
مداها 


8 . 2 


B . 2 . 1 


(11 ) Sodlum Thoopiphon (Photographie 6 % 

Grado ). 
6 ) Alumlalaro chloride ( Aubrdrow 
Orranto Camical 
(1) Hydroqalbos 
(I ) Rubber chemicals , , , , 81 % 
Other organic chemicals 

( ) Acetic Add i Polyethylogo com 6 % ! 

woon. 
(II) Aallia /Aailles ou , 

204 


ملائمه 
(ه) 


الله 
واللام 
A 


( a ) Anilino /Agillar ou 


9 . 2 . 3 


(0 ) Polyethylene moulder 

powder (HDPB ), 
(a ) Sulpbur. 
( ) Nitric Acid . 
( o ) MooL 
(1 ) Proklog materials . 

LDPB / UDPB (212 


( IH ) Praworthritol . 


. 


. 


. 


* 


Mincollanaon akomical And CAMDIRI 

product faoluding 10xtil. A dria 

nad prokorrativa 
Flooroourbon rosa (P .11 , 7 .12 And F . 22 ). 153 


3 .3 . 2 


8 . 3 . 4 


Carbon black . 
(1) Poundry plan 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


37 
10 % 


0 . 3 . 6 


(1 ) Flooripar ( Add grado). 
(* ) Sulphur. 
(c ) Carbon totrachlorido (20 % . 
(d ) Phosphorus pentoxldo (20 
( ) Antimony metal (579 

Chloroform (20 % ) . 
( a ) PackingMaterial, vz., Inn 

papor. 
(a ) Fluorpar ( Add gnade). 
( ) Sodlum Boni /Caldus 

Boruta . 
Alkyl Benzono /Dodacri 

Benzoao ( 20 % ). 
(2 ) Vidyl Aprtino Mourmor 

(10 % . 
(o ) Lauryl Alcohol (5 . 
( d ) Dioynandiamide (30 % ) 
(. ) Cotostoryl Alcobol (20 % 

Noo - - loak Dotargonus ( 20A 
2 Filter clod /hage 
( o ) Bohylax . Olycol 


107 


( 41 ) Textile Audaria you ., Toolo , Noo 

lonlo und Catlonic types include 
doulafort und da - mollden . 


cos 


(Un) Abrir , Lappios povda , * Utyp 
Tine Bella , tala 


. 


10 


244 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


( PART I - SEC , 1] 


- - 


T 


LT PNT 


- 


- - 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 17 - Contd . 


-- - 


IL DRUGS AND DRUG INTERMEDIATES 

Drugs & Drug Lotermediates (oxcluding 

cinchos fabrlfuge and all qolpino salto 
and compounds in agy form or thelr 

ubieto) . 
B .11 Drugs and Drug intermediates : 


B.11. 1 


Droga and Diug Intermediates , N .O .S . 


15 % 


( 1 ) Rogistered exporters apply 

ing for import replenishment 
licences against export of 
products coverod by this 
SI. No, should produce , with 
ther import application , the 
original or photogtat copy 
of a valid Drugs Manufac 
turing Licence of the manu 
facturer of the goods OA 

portod. 
(2 ) Import of Sodium Cyanido 

will not be allowed against 
the items appoaring 
Appcndix 3 and Appendis 
5 allowod undor sonorlo 
ontry in Col. 4 Against 
oxport products falling 

under this S . No. 
(0 ) Uoproossed bulk drugy (1 ) Please see para 8 of Gene. 

and obemicals appeartig ral Conditions in this 
in Aprndix 3 or Appendix . If Import 
Apperidx 5 as have been application is based on 
actually user! in the mana export of more than ono 
facture of produtoportod . product, the list of import 

Items should be soparato 
(1 ) Packlog matorials viz ., in rospoct of < ach export 

ompty pbials/bottles , aluul product, alongwith the fob 
nium foils , Polyothylenc valus of each export prom 
moulding powder , card duct . 
board cartons, kraft panor 
( 5 % ) . 

( 2 ) Only such of the bulk drugo 

which find a montion in the 
latest Indigo Pharmacopeia , 
the Pharmacopoeia of the 
United States of America , 
Britisb pharmacopocia , BH . 
tish Pharmacouticals Codox , 
the States Pharmacopoela 
of Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics , the National For 
inulary of the United States 
of Arterica , the Iptor 
national Pharmacopoeia , the 
Japanese Pharmacopoeie 
and such other drugs as 
aro spocially cortified by tho 
Drug Controllor (Lodia ), 
and arpearing in tho many 
( Hoturlog ligence Agued 
hinder the Drugs and 
Cosmetics Act, 1940 , ( 8. 
Amondod ) will be oligible 
for toport roplonishment 
licenco gulpet axpor . A 
othor viam admirable 


(3 ) Fint& bod formulation # 

dosago form for hui,lt and 
votoripary uso such as thleta . 
capsules, Injactions, bo 
olntmonts, drop:# , syrups, 
possarles, granulco, medical 
lozenges , Inbalors , pille , 
medical acrogol , oral drop 
Unimonte , lotions, tacture , 
extracta b ulk pre 
into or blonda formule 
VOAR purpor , biological 


(9171-- * * 1] 


भारत का राजपन्न असाधारण 


245 


APPENDIX 17 - - Contd . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


IL DRUGS AND DRUG INTERMEDIATES - Contd . 


diagnostic son Apparap 
la tho manufacturing licence 
las vod to the manufacturer 
of the connoctod formula 
dons under the Drugs and 
Cosmetics Act , 1940 (85 
amended ) will be eligible 
for Import replenishment 
Licence agaiost exports 
I otherwise admissible . 
Howovor , tlacturos /extracts 
of ticu, barks, leaves , flo 
wer goods ota . used othor 
than by the drugs Industry 
will not bo entitled for 
oxport assistenco under 

Sl. No. B . 11 . 1 . 
(4 ) Cooditions laid down in 

Romark ( 2 ) above will not 
bo applioable in respect of 
export of items Bota Pico 
Lino and Gamma Picolino. 


B . 11 . 2 


Ayurvedlo , Ungol and Sidha Medicines 


. 


10 % 


( a ) Item montionod JD 

Appendice 3 and 3 
as have been used in 
the manufacture of product 

exported . 
Packing material , viz. emp 
ty phial /bottlu , alumi 
num fuils, Polyethylene 
moulding poydor, card 
board cartons, kraft paper 
( 10 % ). 


( 1 ) Samo a Remark ( 1 ) Aga 

fost Sl. No. B . 11. 1 . 
( 2 ) Oply such drugs as appear 

in the manufacturing Hicon 
ce issued to the conocrnod 
manufacturot vodor the 
Drugs and Cognotion Act , 
1940 (as amended ) will be 
oligible for Import replo 
olshment licenco Against 
exports , if otherwlao Ad 

mlasblo, 
(3 ) Finlghod formulations in 

dosego form for human 
and votorinary use such as 
tablets, capsulog, skin olot 
monts , syrups , inhalors , 
pllls, oral drops, lotions, 
tinctures, extracts, bulk 
prorpixos or bleads appoar 
ing to tho manufacturing 
lloence Isquod to manufac 
turers of coonoctod formu 
lation under the Drugs 
und Cosmetice Act, 1940 
( as amended ) will be ollgt 
blo for toport roplenish 
moot o nicos Against 
expon If otherwisoad 
missable However , inc 
turcs un act of troos , 
brak: louvor , flowot soods 
cu. her than by tho 
drugs ladustry will not be 

onctiod for oxport Assis 
t1oco undus " No 8 . 11 . 2 . 


8 . 11 . 3 


Meroury based Drugs 


. 


. 


, 


3 % 


(a ) Roorlool. 
(6 ) Zluc Chloride , 


0 . 11 . 1 


Amoxyclin Capsulas 250 mg (Trihydrate ) 


50 % 


(a ) Amoxycilln . 
(6 ) Packing Datorlals, DIY 

empty phials /bottlos, aluiala 
pium " folls, Polyethylene 
moulding powder, card 
board cartons, kraft paper 
(5 ) 

- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


246 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : CXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I — Sec . 1) 


APPENDIX 17 - Conia , 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- UL 


m2 - 14 mr 


IL DRUGS AND DRUG INTERMEDLATES -- Contd . 


B .11. 1 


Amoxycillin Syrup 123 mg/ ml , 


30 % 


(a ) Arboxyallin , 
( 6 ) Packlog material , vis , 

ompty phlals/bottles , alumni 
nium foils , Polyothylon , . 
mouldlog powder, card 
board certons, kraft paper 
( 5 % . 


8 .11. : 


Amploilo Capvala 250 mg/ 500 mg 


50 % 


id ) Amptelio tribyarto and 

sohydrou . 
( d ) Packing Matorial. , Viz . 

ompty phials /bottles, aluml 
alum foil , Polyethyleno 
moulding powder. card . 
board oartoda, kraft paper 
(39 . 


11 . 9 


Amplalllo Syrup 125 mg/ 5 ml . 


. 


. 


40 % 


(o ) Amplailin trhydrato And 

aohydrous . 
( 0 ) Packlog materials , viz. 

empty phtals /bottlo , alumi 
nium foils , Polyethylono 
noulding powder. card . 
board cartonin , kraftpaper 
( 5 % . 


D 11. 10 


Ampleliitto Inl. in 250 mg/100 mg 


50 % 


(a) Ampicilin tribydrate and 

Lohydrom . 
( ) Packdog material , vl .. 

copty phial /bottlo , alvol. 
alum foile , Polyethylono 
coolding povdor, card 
board aartoni, kraft paper 

(53 
(0 ) Chloramphoolool powdor . 


8 .11.11 


Chlorampbenlool tableta / Capsulot 250 mg/ 

500 mg . 


50 % 


( 1 ) Packlog material , vz., 

ompty phlaly / bottlo , alumi 
alumfolls , Polyethylene 
moulding powder , and 
board cartons, balt papar 
(5 % ). 


8 . 11 . 12 


Chlorampbenicol Palmitale Syrup 


(0 ) Chlorampboolool Palmitate . 

Packing materials. viz .. 
cmpty phlals /bottles , aluml 
num foils , Polyethyleno 
moulding powder, card . 
board artopi, kraft paper 
(599 


B . 11 .13 


Doxyoyolino Capsules 100 mg 


- 


50 % 


( a ) Dotycycline bass /in hyd 

rato / byclato /hydrochlorido/ 

Calcium Complox . 
(1 ) Packing materials , wz , 

empty phials / bottlax , alumi. 
alum Polls , Polyethylope 
moulding powder, card . 
board cartons, Eran paper 
( A 


8 .11. 14 


Bobambatol ablat . 


. 


. 


. 


. 40 % 


(o ) Bibambutol 
(0 ) Packing materiah , E . 

empty phial / bottle , alumi. 
pigm folk , Polyethylen 
(Dugi poyder , aard 
pound Ano , n rep 


[HTT I - TJ 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


247 


ATENDLX 17 - Conia . 


- -- 


- 


- - - - --- 


2 


II , DRUGS AND DRUG INTERMĒDIATES - Ooncld. 
B . 11. 13 Tetracycline - 

50 % 
Tablets/caprolon 250 mg/ 300 mg. 


( 4) Tetracycllo buydro 

chloride. 
(d ) Packing Material , z., 

empty phlals/bottles , alarl 
alum folls, Polyethyleno 
mouldlog powder, card . 
board cartons, kraft paper 
(599 


2 . 11 . 10 


(a ) Gentamycinc Sulpbat.. 


Gontamycino In ). 40 mg/ml, 80 mg/ mol, 20 % 

20 mg/ml ( Pediatric ), 140 mg /ml, 
280 mg/2ml, 


( ) Packlog matorial , viz ., 

empty phialg /bottlo , alum 
olum foil , Polyethyleno 
moulding powder, card 
board cartons, kraft papar 
(5A). 


8 . 11 . 11 


Toracyaline Syrup 125 my . 


9 . 11 18 


Erythromyaln Bthyl Spooldate Grappler 50 % 

Estolato / Stearato / Suspansios 100 mg/ 
125 mg/ 500 mg / 5 ml. 


( 0 ) Tetracycllna baso bol. 
(d ) Packlog materials , viz ., 

empty phlals / bottlos , Alum 
oium foil , Polyethylono 
moulding powdor, card 
board carton , kraft papar 

(5 % . 
( 0 ) Erythromydp (base ), ory 

thromycin ostolato and 

orythromyclo stearate . 
(1 ) Poldog matorial , Vlz.. 

ompty phlab /bottlos , alumi 
plan foll , Polyothylon . 
moulding powder, card 
board cartops, on papor 


B . 12 


Modidoal Plane and Harbu . 


. 22 


(a) Packing 

LDPB 


Material, ve , 


II . DYRS AND DYE INTERMEDIATES 
8 . 16 . 1 Synthotlo orgaolo dyu including organic ) 

pigmont . 
1 . 162 Dye LatorDodinu . 


132 


( a ) Dyo lotomodlata and cho- (1 ) lo the caso of Itom (a ) la 
micals in Appendix 3 

Column 4 , please soo pan 
and used in the manu - 8 of "General Conditions 
facture of tho product la tbls Appendix . 
OXDortod . 

(2 ) Import of Alpha Naphthy 
Anthranillo Add . 

Jamine undor Itom ( a ) lo 
Triobiorobonzone. 

Column 4 will be allowod 
( d ) 1 - Amido anthraquinono . only upto 10 % of the 
( c ) 2 - Anthraquinono Sulphonic llconce value within the 
Acid - Sodium Salt. 

Ovorall value of the lioenco . 
0 ) 1 - Chloroanthraquinono. ( 3) Import of item ( a ) 214 
0 1 - 3 Dlaminoanthraquinono Dinitrochloro bonzono lo 
( ) 2 - 6 Dlamlao aothraquinone. Col. 4 wll be allowod only 
ii) DiethylMeta aminophenol, against oxport of Sulphur 
W 215 Dichloro Nitro Boo - black covorod by Bipon 
ZODO. 

produot in Col. 2 
(* ) Aplino Oll ( % . 
( 1 ) Naphthionlo acld /Sodium 

Napbtblopate . 
(m ) Bronze Powder ( $ 2 . 
(1 ) Ortho Dichloro bopzone. 
(0 ) Sodlum Nitrte ( 9 % ). 
( D ) N N Dimethylanilino ( 79 . 
(a ) 214 Dinitrochloro beazooc. 
( ) Paraoltrotoluono. 05 . 

Orthooltrotolocno 
(1) Packlog materiale , viz ., 

HDPE LDPB, 
En peper, C . R . C . A . 

booth, dnplato ( 20 % ) . 
(u ) Filtoj Cloth (25 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


248 
- - - 


[PART 1- - Sec . 1] 


APPENDIX 17 Conta , 


- - 


- --- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


12 
- - - - - - - - - - - 

- 
IV . PESTICIDES AND FORMULATIONS 
8 . 17 . 2 Zinc Phosphido or other Zloo- based formu- 20 % 

lation vlt ., Zineb . 
H . 17 . 3 Ingectioldes , Pesticides, Woodicidos , Roden - 15 % 

ticides ( formulations and technical mate 
ral). 


(aj Zlnc . 


(1 ) Please 600 para 8 

General Conditione 
this Appendix . 


of 
in 


(0 ) Insotiades including pesti - 

cides and Wood Icides ( Tocb 
nical) which are included 10 
Appendix 3 but excluding 
those prohibitod for us 

under Insecticide Act. 
(A ) Camphene , 


B 18 


Texapbeno 


15 % 


V . TOILETRIES AND PERFUMERIES 
8 20.1 Agarbattles and dhoop 


10 % 


( a) Hydroxy citropollai 
( ) (ononc 100 % 
(c) Aurantloc , 
(d ) Terponcol ( 10 % ). 
(a ) Phenyl Acetic acid . 

Bornool/ Borncol Acctate . 
6 ) Bugenol Acetato. 
(A ) Goraniol. 
( 1 ) Geraniol Aastate , 
U Terpenyl Acetate ( 10A 
(l ) Yara Yara 
( 1 ) Citronellal pure 
(m ) Matures of Od riierrous 

substanots /Mixtures of resi 

nolds ( 107 ) 
(n ) Packing maccrjal, viz ., 

Glassine paper , Transparent 

cellulog Paper ( 25 A . 
(0 ) Vanillin (21A). 
(D ) Myak anbretteo ( 10 % . 


B . 20 . 2 


Tojlet soaps, laundry soaps, m dicated 

soaps and Industrial swaps. 


6 % 


(a) Crudo Palm oil. 


Within the overall RBP 
entitlomont admissible in 
column 3 , a manufaturern 
exporter obtaining REP 
Licenco on his own exports 
may be allowed Palm Stea 
rine through Stato Trading 
Corporation subject to tho 
condition that the materia ) 
shall be tiged in his own 
factory only , for the manu 
facture of toilot soap , laun 
dry soap modicated soap 
or indust, tal soap . The 
manufacturer exportor wad 
ting to havo this item will 
bo required to indicato the 
valuo thereof in his import 
application , within the over 
all admissible REP entitlo 
mont to onable the licen 
sing authority to issuo RPP 
Roloago Order for Palm 
Stearing on STC . The 
Roloase Order thus grantod 
shall be non - transfora blo . 
Where the oxporter is not 
himself the manufacturor 
of the product exported , 
and Palm Stearing is sought 
to bo obtained within the 
Ovorall ontitlement admis 
slblo In Column 3 , the 
oxporter conoctaed , wbilo 
applying for import rop 


[err I - 1] 


249 


S 


I 


भारत का राजपत्र : मसाधारण 
JAS 

- - - - -- - 
APPENDIX 17 - Cond. 


- - - - - 


1 . = - - = 


G = 


- - 


- -- - -- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


-- 


- 


- 


- - 


3 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


• TOILETRIES AND PERFUMERIES - Conid 


Ionishment licenca , qualo 
furnish a doclaration dying 
the name and addross of 
the manufacturer whose 
product was actually ex 
ported , and stating that tho 
RBP Rolcase Order ingy bo 
Issued in the name of that 
ndanufacturor , giving tho 
value for which such REP 
Reloaso Ordor måybo 
Issuod , within the ovorall 
admissiblo REPontitle 
mont Upon such doclara . 
don , tho R & P Reloaso 
Ordor for Palm Stearing 
will be issued ſo the namo 
of the manufacturer con 
cornod with a condition 
that the Roloase Ordor shall 
bo non - transforable and tho 
importod matorial shall be 
used in the Roloase Order 
Holder . factory only, for 
the manufacture of the 
tollet soap , laundry soap . 
medicated soap or Indos 
trial soap. 


8 . 20 . 3 


Synthetic Dotorgents 


4104 


Dentifrica 


107 


3 20 .7 


Scoarlok powder 


62 


9 . 20 . 8 


9 % 


Porfumery compound , Attam , Synthetic 

ossootlal out , and favourlag owongo . 


(a ) Linoar Alkyl Benzopa. 
(b ) Pooking material, vd ., LDPB , 

HDPR , CRCA shosta 

(50 % . 
( c ) 8TPP, 
(0 ) Dicalolum Phosphate. 
(1 ) Tla plata vaato / vut ( 3079 
(c) Sodlum Lauryl sulphate 

(3 %A). 
(a ) Llagar Alkyl Boozone. 
(A ) Packing watorials, vie ., 

LDPE , HDPE , CRCA 

thopts ( 50 % . 
(a ) Gorino , 

( 1) In the outo of Itom ( ) in 
A1 Ionon 100 % 

Col. 4 , please sco para 8 
(c ) Methyl Iopono , 

of Goneral Conditions lo 
( d ) Torron ) ( 152 ) 

blu Appondus , 
( 1 ) Votive 01 . 

Parfumary Grdo Bot . . 
( ) Torpenyle Apotuto (1317 ). 
(A ) Vetiver Acetate, 
( 1 ) Purada liquid . 
( 1 ) Saffron . 
( 0 ) Aby other item appeara 

la Appaodiy 3 

( 2014 ). 
( 1 ) Mari ambretter (20 

) Vella (37 ), 


B .20 .9 


Hair Oil , porturned Bad Hair Grooming 


6 % 


( Liquid Panfi . 
Key Hydroxy Citronatal. 
( 0 ) Gonulo ), 
(a ) Torpanel (30 A 
18 ) LOLOBO pur 100 % . 


- 


- - 


. 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


-- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


58 GI/ 85-- 17 . 


250 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 SEC . 1 ] 


- 


- - - - 


m 


y 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


su 


- 


R 


- 


- 


- 
- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 11 - Conta , 

- - - - - 


rue 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


-- - - - - 


2 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


V . TOILETRIES AND PERFL MERJES - Concld . 
0 - 20 . 10 Cosmotic and Tolletria , N .O .S . 


10 % 


(9 ) Mbro ornullin , Waz . ( 1 ) hi for cosmotica , only toch 
(4 , Pearl 011600x ( 50 % ) . 

products at are manufactu 
CO ? Hay other items appearing rod under a lloenco Iglued 

Appendix 3 OT under the Drugs and Con 
Appendix 54 have moties Act, 1940 bo 
ఉంటl god in the manufac eligible for Import replonisb 
oor of fan product * * ruent llocco against - 
portod 

port , 
Tanlan dloside. 

(2 ) lo tho apso of Item (c ) in 
( ) Paoktag poudarlota Icoiud , Col. 4 , plaan 100 pan 8 

Ing apelallod gladi bottia of Genoral Conditions lo 
Aud containon , LDPB / this Appendix . 
HDPR, applicator ,mirrors . (5) Exports of commotion to 

rotall or bulk packlog vill 
quailty for import rople 

alshmopi. 
( #) CRCA Sheetr . 

CRCA Sheets, 
Polyethylene Bouldiau 
Powder ( High density ). 


8 .20 . 11 
0 . 20 .12 


Elydrogaoktad Castor Ou 
De- aydrated Cartor 011 . 


JO 


B . 20 . 13 


Zinc Undecylcanic 


, 


. 56% 


ge 


B .20 . 14 


Heptal Dchydo 


( ) Zlac . 

CACA Shoota /Polyethylono 
Mouldlag Powder (Lov 
Donslty ) (4074 
Cltrlo Add. 
CRCA Shoots (20 % ). 
Polyethyleno Moulding Po 
wder (High density) (40 % . 

Citric Acid , 
(a) Palm Oil. 
( Copra /Cocangi ofl. (30 % ). 

Vanadium Pontoxide ( cata 
lyst grado) (25 / ) . 

CRCA Sheets (10 % ). 
( a) HDPE Moulding Powdor, 
( 1 ) Clto Add. 
(a ) Tlo plato Yusto / wasta . 
(0 ) Torpoo col. 


OOSOO 


B . 2015 


Fatty Acids, Patty Aminci, 


20 % 


8 . 22 


(1) Natural essential olla 
( 1) Blondod roua oll 


: 


: 


: 


0 .23 


Fluorldo Chornicals , 


was 


Huonpur (Add nudo). 
(6 ) Sulphur , 

Titanium dioxldo (37 . 


vt. PAINTS AND ALLJED PRODUCTS 


Genrol Notas - 
( 1) Whorover against tho oz 

port of paints and alllod 
products falling under this 
Sub Group Tio Plato la 
allowed m packing ma 
torial, import of the plato 
waste /wasto will be allowod 
opto 25 % within the 
poroontage allowod for 
packing matorlal against 
cach otport product within 
the overall value of tho 

REP lloonce. 
Cadmium rod (20 % 

( 1 ) Import of Pontaorythritol 
Napthonic acid . 

will be allowed only against 
Cobalt acotato . 

Alkyd rosin bagod palota. 
Polyamide Rosino ( 20 % ). 
( e ) Titaplum Dioxdde (Rutilo 

Grado) . 
c ) Vinyl acotato monomor ( 102 ) . 

" - - - - - - - - - - - - 


B .31 


Paints, varnishes and camols ( axçluding 

synthetic opamels based on polyester ). 


25 % 


- - 


- - - - 


Vlayl acetate monomar ( 102 . 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - 


--- - ----- ---- - - - - - 


- 


( TT - UT 1 ) 


251 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


भारत का राजपत्र प्रसाधारण 

-- - - - - 
APPENDLX 17 - - Konta 


-- - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


--- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


VI. PAINTS AND ALLIED PRODUCTS - eonid 


(8 ) Packing materials viz., Tin 

plato / Tin plato wasto 
wasto / Tin frod stool/CRCA 

shoots or coll (8 % ) . 
( 4 ) Malolo Anhydrido ( 10 . 

Phtballo Anhydride (57 ) 
U ) Pantacrythritol (25 A . 

Carbon Black . 
(1) Mothyl Mothacrylato Mon 

omor ( 30 % ) . 


8 .32. 


Lacquors focluding Nitro Collulose Laoquort 25 


(a ) Samo as Item : (a ) 10 (8 ) 

against S . No. B .31 . 
(0 ) Packing matoday via . Tu 

plato , CRCA shooty (8 A . 


0 .33 


Synthetlo onamolo barod on polyostor 


10 % 


(a ) Paching melorlalı , via, Tim 

plato kod CRCA Whichtu 

( 7 % ) . 
( ) Butyl Atanat (20 ) 
(0) Croylic acid (30 % . 
di Monootbyleno Clyool (10A 
( al Samo u Itom ( a ) to ( f ) 

Agalot S . No. 8 . 31 
( 0 ) Packdog materlalr vi , The 

plato CRCA phaeth 
(20 % . 


A 34 


Distompons locluding Comont palots 


10 % 


8 .33 


(1) Napthanato drioru 


(a ) Napthionlo Acid . 
( Load ( 10 .). 
(c) Zinc (10 % . 
(d ) Cobalt Aootato ( 20 % ) . 
(d ) Tlaplato /CRCA ihooti (23 % 


( 11) Octoato drtons 


(0 ) Load . 
65 Zinc . 
ic Cobalt acotate . 
( ) Tloplate/ CRCA shocta ( 25 % . 


D 36 


Syothetic resins and adhesive based on 

tynthotic roolnt and eynthotic bardoqori, 


20 % 


( 0) Vinyl toota to monomer (10 % ) ( ) Import of Ethyl Acrylato 

Monomar and Butyl Acry 
(d ) Soyabean of). 

lato Monomor will be 
Packing material ris ., Tlo allowod only against ox 
plate and CRCA shocta port of Acryllc based 
( 10 % ). 

rosins 
( d ) Pormaldehydo. 
( ) Malolc Anhydrido (10 % . 
( Ethyl acrylate monomer ( 5 ) 
( 8 ) Butyl Acrylato Monomor 

( 10 % ) 
(h) Phthalic Anhydrido (5 % ) . 


8 ,37 


Chrome plgmaota 


( 1 ) Zinc . 


(6 ) Load 


5 . 38 


30 % 


0 . 39 
4 .40 


. 
. 


Prusslan Blue 
Ultramarine Bluo . , 
Aluminium powder and paste . 
Zinc Oxide , 
Red lead and llcharge, white lead 
Coorgeplc Pigments NOS 


B . 41 . 1 


(a ) Potassium Porrocyhold . 
(a) Sulpbur 
(a ) Aluminium 
(1) Zloa. 
(o ) Lood . 
(a ) Titanlam Dloxldo (Rutu . 

Grado). 
(0 ) Paoklag matorial vit ., Tlo 

plato and CRCA sheets (50 % ) 


. 41 . 2 


42 


252 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA · EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART I - SEC . 11 
- - - - - - - - - 


APPENDIX 17 - Conid . 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


3 


VI, PAINTS AND ALLIED PRODUCTS .Contd 


Protort 


31 " 


39 


944 


Kubblag cun pound 
Boot Poll . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


17.40 


Wax Polieb . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


10 ) Titanluro Dloulde (Rutilo 

Grado ). 
Bronzo powdor 13 % ) 

Carbop Black ( 3 % 
Pol Mlorocrystallido vl. 
(a) Mloro crystalline Weil 

Paraffo War 
( ) Tio plate wasta /wasta (80 % ) 

Mloroorystallino wex 
rlo plato wasto ,wato (80 % ) 
Titanlam dloxido (Rutilo 
rudo ) 
Brodzo powder ( 50 % 
Cadmium red , yollow 
Carbon Black (5 % . 

Casen . 
(5 ) Organlo Pigmeots Dyostui 

covered by Appendix 3 . 


Anster color locłudluq artist colours 


33333 


Lathor Pigment Finishes 


. 


. 


. 


6 % 


O 


VA . SAFETY MATCHES , FIREWORKS AND 

EXPLOSIVES 
8 ,91. 1 Safety Matched , . 
0 .31. 2 Firmy orka 
44, 51 . 3 Dolopators /Detonatoy rur 


OY 


( a) Sulphor. 
(a ) Supbur . 
(a ) Sodium uzldo (10 % ). 
(6 ) Copper wire bar 
( c ) Nitrlo Aold . 
(a) Sulphur, 


. 


B . 51.4 Safety Foo 
V I . CERAMIC PRODUCTS 
B . $ 3 1 Glazed tilcı 


10 % 


(a ) Fluorspar (Add grade) . 
( b ) Titaplum Dioxide (Rutilo 

grade). 
Copper oxldo 
Rofractoria . 
China Clay. 
Borax . 


2inc . 


8 . 332 


fosulators 


15 % 


@SSSLosessagsse 


B . $ 3 . 3 
B . 53 .4 
R . 53 . 5 


Spray -drlod Kaotlo or China clay 
Artificial Tooth ( Porcelain type) 
Crockory 


Zinc . 
Load . 
Transformer oll . 
China Chy. 

Sodium hydrogulphito 
(a ) Silicone Emulsion . 

Ching Clay . 

Liquid gold ( 10 % 
(a ) China Clay . 
(a ) White Cemont. 


15 % 


10 % 
10 % 


8 .53.6 Sanitary Ward 
B . 54 Mosalc / Terrazo tllos 
IX . GLASS AND GLASSWARE 
B .57. 1 Clinical Thermometers and Wall Thermo- 

motoru . 


10 % 


B . 57 . 2 


Vacuum Flasks and losylated ware 


20 % 


( a ) Titanium Dioxldo (Rutilo 

grade), 
(1 ) Sodium Silico - duorido 

Borat 
0 ) Refractories . 
( c ) Soclum Nitrato ( 10 % . 

A .B .S Mouding Powder 
( 5091 

Graphited Oil (10 % ). 
( 0 ) Statalesa Steel round ( 20 % ). 
(6 ) Sodlom Silloo floorld 
( c) Blectroplatlog salt 
( 0 ) Rofractoria . 
(6 ) Sodlum Sulphate (50 % 


B . 51. 3 


Olass Syrlogen 


107 


8 .37.4 


Flat Glans Including sboot , Agored and 

wlrod glass, 


6 % 


LALU 


- UN 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( HT 1- 


1 ) 


भारत का राजपत्र : प्रसाधारण 


263 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


APPENDIX 17 - Conta . 


- 


- 


- - - - -- -- - - --- 


- 


L 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - - -- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


: - - 

- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - -- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


IX , GLASS AND GLASSWARE - - Conclu . 
3 . 37 . 5 

Gless Vials 


10 % 


1. ) Sodium Silicu Fluorldo 
11 ) Boid . 
(c) Sodium Nitrate 1 
( Sodium Sulpbatri ( 20 % ) 
ni Refractoren - 

Graphited Oil (10 % ). 


Olan Boudi mud Palao Pearl 


C ) Pean Earenco ( 20 % ) 
1 ) Sodiuca Suico Flqorida 
( d ) Born , 
* Rodrastada 


9 . 01 . 


Gius and Glası vare NOS 


10 % 


G Schlucu şi M . 
(0 ) Sodlum Nitrate 1 
(c ) Sodium Sulphate * 

in Borou. 
( ) Roractoria 

Graphited Oil (10 % ). 
(a ) Emery grains. 
(6 ) Corium Oxido. 
loj Fused bifocalblanks. 


B . 57 . 8 


Ophthalmic fused blanks and longos 


- 


10 % 


( 1 ) Exportors of produots covo 

rod by this $ 1. No. can got 
therngelyes registered eithor 
with the Choruicals and 
Wiou Products tport 

Conction Council on the 
Plastic slid Linoleurus ex 
port Pro .notion Council, 
for the purpose of ohtail 
ing REP benefits 


X. ASBESTOS AND CEMENT PRODUCTS 
8 ,60 

Asbestos products and Asbestos Cercoi 
products 


30 % 


Raw asbestos 
b) Phosphor Brudze 

( 5 ) 


ola 


2 ) Additional infort rople 

nishment at 20 % of tho 
f. o . b . value of oxport: 
will be allowed for import 
of raw Asbestos against 
reports of Asbestou 
products 


II. WOOD PRODUCTY 


Gencral Notos - - 
( 1 ) Against the oxports of 

products covered by this 
category , 5 % of the value 
of REP (Iconco can bo vsod 
for import of consumabla 
"Ools including Peelor 
knives, Slicer koivos , 
Clipper knives , Eloctrically 
operated small band tools 
or rood work . 


8 .68 


Plywood and Plywood products including 

dush doon . 


10 % . 


in 


19 ) Urca formaldehyd . 

thetic Resin . 
(6 ) Melamino Reali 
(a ) Aronzo Poydor 


0 .61 


9 . 08 


174 


) Melamine Raks. 


Decorative vondco picture frame pich 

framos 
Fibro - hoards (Hard tard , nrwation 
board and acoustic tim ), particle board 
vonored had atvenerod aud moulded 
pustiolo board ), and comprok, laminated 
trobar end densiflod wood, 


XII. RUBBER MANUFACTURRY 
0 , 70 . 1 Bicycle tyros dod tabct excluding tubes of 

butyl robber 


6 % 


( al Sulphat 
( 6 ) Zloc 
1. ) Titaniu ) Diozide ntity 

grado ). 
(d ) Cyclo tubo valve ( 10 % 
1 ) Carbon black (20 % 
po ulonwr 
14. 1 106 


A 70 . , 


Foani rubber ind poogd rubh s 400 pri 

Juut there 


254 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - Sec . 1 ] 


m 


. 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - - - 


AL 


APPENDIX 17 - ronta 


- 


- 


LAUWT - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 1 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


V 


- 


– 


— 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


U 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2 

- - - - - - - - 
ILL RUBBER MANUFACTURES concld . 
B . 70 .3 moduudal appliances ur rubber aartydlou 

rubbor aprong and cou . 


10 % 


SoS 


. 70 . 6 


Huber ipTOP B . 


wwsber ep? oba 


, te 


3 .10 . 


Holzar SHD ( othor 

bonos ) apd boltok 


Doll rou 


10 % 


SassSSogass2803 


B . TO 6 


I rattant gove 


. 


. 


. 


10 % 


Sulphur, 
Ammonium Carbonato , 
Titanium Dloudo (Rok # 
grade) 
Zlac . 
Mlorocrystallloo W8I. 
Carbno black (10 % . 
Titanium Dirilde (Auta 
arada) , 

Sulphør . 
) Phipotle sola , 
Mormoryliny Wis 
Precipitatod Silica ( 102) . 
Sulphur 

(1 ) Agalost the export of Fire 
Titaplum Dioxide, 

Hose , the following item : 
Zing 

vill also be allowod within 
1 400 . 

the overall replenishment 1 -- 
Ammonium Carbonate . 

( ) $ Olcone emulsions, 
Microcrystallio Wax , 

(11) Sodium Hoo Quorkin. 
Carbon black ( 10 % ). 

( IN ) Syothotla epun yarim 
Sulphar. 
Zing. 
Lead. 
Mlorocrystallo . War 
Titanlum dlouldo. 
Sulpbur 
Titanium Dioxide, 
Ammodium Carbonato , 
Zlac. 
Mlorocrystallino War. 
Boot and shoe arindory pia. , 
bifurcatod rivota , stapling 
lastlog slugging and auto 
solar wire , machine tacks , 
studs/booki, stoel thanks 
( 20 % 
Otvanlo Pigment Dyostutto 

covorod by Append . 3 (207 ) 
(A ) PVC compounds (10 . 
( ) Procipitated Suica , 

Carbon black ( 10 
(a) Sulphur . 
(b ) ZIRO . 


B . 707 


Aubbor and canya, footwoar 


10 % 


SOSOS 


B . 70 .8 


Surgical and Medical appliances of robbet 


6 % 


3 . 71 


Automobilo tyras and tubos (excluding 
tuba of butyl rubbor ) - 

(9) Tyre vith nylon cord . . 


13 % 


( 0 ) Sulpdor. 
(6 ) Zinc 
(c ) Rosorclool (2 % ). 
(d ) Plnotar ( 10 % . 
(a) Nylon tyr. cord fahrle 

(20 % . 
Precipitated Sikoa . 
Antioxdants and accolara - 
fon appearlo , la Appendix 3 
( 907A . 
Carbon bikek (590 . 


Others 


Zlac. 
Rolorcinol (279). 
Mariar (107 . 
Sulphu , 


B .72 


Auto and bicyclo tabos of butyl rubber 


Z . . 


S3993 


8 .73 


Ribbyromoufuciucd prodach N . 0 . 0 , 


10 


Plastar . 
Cyale tube ya17 ( 10 ) . 
Suphur 
Tuanlu Dloulde (Autie 
Gade ). 
Zlmo un prou . 
Ammoniam qurbonin , 
Carbon black ( 102) . 


OSS 


(HT 1- 


1 ) 


भारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 


255 


APPENDIX 17 - Conta 


- 


n - 


OL - 


- TATOR 


- 


G 


- - - 


- 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
IID . PAPER , PAPER PRODUCTS AND 

STATIONERY 
8 . 71 Tissue Papor, lucluding cigarotte tissue 

Paper. 


6 % 


(a) Titanium Dioxide (Rutile 

prade). 
( ) Sodloun Bonzoat#. 
(c) Melaming Formaldehydo. 


0 . 78 


Paſor bascu trHosfors, plaln or printod 


, 


6 % 


(a ) Titanium 

rado). 


Dioxido (Rutila 


1 . Sodlum BenzoalO . 


(c ) Melanine Formaldebydo. 


0 .82 


(w ) 


Books - all type 


, 


( 1 


(0 ) Nowopriat 
inj Prloting papok, 
( c) Photographic chemical 

( 10 % ) 
( 1 ) Piloting inju ( 1024 . 


Transfer of REP licence for 
itom (u ) or the inaterial 
imported thereunder shall 
bo governod by the provi 
sions of Newsprint Control 
Ordor. 


( 6 ) 


(a ) Prloting Paper. 
I (6 ) Printing ipki ( 20 % ). 


20 % 


Paper and Papor Products . 
Art Calendan , Dlarley , Brochuros 
Grooting Cards, Playing Cards, Gilt 

Bdgod Lovitation Cards . 
(d ) Acrogrammes, Bjarolo books, writing 

pade, Wrapping papon , Office Bleu 

and fancy stationary Itome, labels ote . 
( 6 ) Ropropulls or Alm positivos of photo 

type sot page of Books, Magaglno oto . 


10 % 


10 % 


B 84 


Nowupapon , Joulukl, and porlodioulo 


- 


50 % 


( 1 ) Samo as Romark (1 ) Agalost 

Sl. No. B .82( a ). 


(0 ) Newsprint. 
(1) Photographic chomical 

(102 
(c) Printag lolos ( 10 % . 


B .86.1 


Fountain pop lak , typowitor Abbon lok 


6 % 


(a ) Chlorobutol. 
(0) Tandlo Acid . 


8 .86 . 2 


6 % 


(0 ) Lond. 


Ink pads, correcting duids, making caps, 

blotting padı . 
(1) Ponotho . 


8 .86. 4 


Dioulde (Rutila 


( 0 ) Titanlum 

grado) . 


( 11 ) Load Slips for Pencil. 


, 


, 


6 % 


(a) Carbon Blick , 
10 ) Titanium Dioxito 

Grada ). 


de lo 


XIV MISCBI LANBOUS 


2 .80. 


Chemicals and Anlat Frndach # o 1 # 

wbero lacludod le the group. 


2 


(a ) Packing materials. 


( ) Expon product will to 

Apecified in the REP Livno 
and packing Material: poi 
mitted will be as are role 
vant to the product 4 
ported 


Q . PLASTICS 
1 RAW MATERIALS 


C .3 . 1 


Phenol formaliobyde moulding powedr 


31 


10 ) Titlum Dioxide ( R . 

MTADO) 


C . 9 . 2 


res formaldolydo mould 


powder 


31 


(0 ) Titaplain Doxid . (Anti : 


256 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I — SEC . 1] 


- - - 


- 


- = 


= 


F 


- 


N 


Y 


ULLURE 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 17 - Cond. 


- - 


- - 


- m 


oun 


- 


- 


- 


1 . MANUFACTURES 


C . 


20 % 


Fountain /ball point pens , ball point pon 

rofills, sign pons, Abro tip pens (all types ), 
mloro tip pons , rollor - - writor pçox and 
parts thereof, and fountain POD Dios 
( including stainless steel fountalo pod 
alby ) and Alltor and tips (0xcept Altor And 

pe of fountalo ponu ). 


S 


(a ) Steel ball . . 

( 1) [tom (!) in column 4 mado 
(5 ) Stalnless steel oolls / tripe of silver sterling or gold 

not exceeding 100 Om width . platod will be allowod only 
( c ) Nickel. 

Agalost export of peo 
Blootroplating wat and made of theso material . 
brightoners . 
Collulogo Acotato Moulding 
Powder. 
Polyethyleno moulding 
powder (low donelty /higo 
danalty ) as paoking material 

( 20 % ) 
6 ) Ball polat roflls . 

Clips for foonials und ball 
polot pene 
Motal caps and barrels for 
pony (Including ball polni 
podn ) mado of gun protado 
silver storag vold patod . 
Bifacoablo types of ikotch 
pen lok la concentrated 

forp . 
(* ) Nigroslao do (C . I. No, 

30415) . 
Synthetic fibro tips and Olter 
for skotcb pens (10 % . 


C .8.1 


(1) Dangles orcluding Polystyreno Bangios 


. 


20 % 


(a) Mothy Mothacrylate 

Monomer . 
(b ) Glass Boads /Chatons /Falso 

Poarls. 
(0 ) Acrylic Plastio Sheets /off 

outs other than Acrylic 
Plastio Shoots of 0 .85 mm 
to 1. 2 pm tblenou (25 % ). 
Callulou Acotato Film 
Sorap (oxolodlap 83 mm 
negotio tapa ) . 
Callulovo Acetato Butyrate , 
off - out /oottlog , sad sorap 
(504). 
Coluloso Acolate Mould 
lng Powdor / Adules / sboeta / 
off-outs /aboot outtings . 
Colluloso Acotato Scrap 

(50 % ). 
(a) Polystyreno Moulding 

Powder . 
(A ) Paarl Baroda ( 102). 


6 ) 


( /) Polystyreno Bapglos 


20 


C .8 . 2 


Magde Imitation levallarg 


C6SOCO 


( ) PVC DIRA Thou ( 252 ) 
(A ) Pearl B114800 ( 50 % ). 
( 0 ) Glas Bonda /Custot . 
( ) Polytrah Fomm , 

Aarhla Plaste et /o 
Ayu ( 20 ) 

# nan Poarta 
6 ) ( 4 08 - / 24m . 
( 0 ) Mihl Mar , Bedap , 

component ad nocoworla 
regured for immedog javol 


( 79 I - -21) 


257 


= 


- 


= - 


= - 


= 


भारत का राजपन्न असाधारण 
- = 
APPENDIX 17 - Conid , 


-- - - - - -- - - - 


LT2 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


3 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 

- - - - - 
I . MANUFACTURES .cond 

Plastic Denturo matorial and 

products 


0 .9 


dental 


13 % 


C . 10 


% 


2488 fibre rclnforced Polyester and mana 
factures including bolmote and para 
liko strapa , bralded corda ctc . 


CI: 


Laminatou ( Phonolls and Melamine) 


C . 112 


Plastlo Blootrial Accouoria 


107 


C , 11 , 3 


Plastic moulded , oxtruded and fabricated 

goods , other thao PVC fabricated 


10 % 


བྱ 


(a ) Methyl Mothacrylate 

Monomer, 
(6 ) Cadmium rod 

Acrylic shoots (50A 
b ) Titanium Dioxide (Rutila 

grade ). 
Reinforcements such as 
chopped strand mat, ruvin 

, woven rovinga 
( d ) Polyostot roslo (104815 

stod ). 
(0 ) Decontive paper for lain 

pato . 
(o) PVC Compound 
( + ) Elootrical steel beets 

CRCA shoots. (20 % ) 
(O ) Packlog material. (Polyo 

thyleno moulding powder ) 

( 2094). 
1d Acrylic Plastic Shoots / 

off -cuts other than Acrylıq 
Plastlo Shots of 0 85 ono 

to 1 . 2 mm thickness 
(a ) C . A . off -outa, 
( a ) PVC Compound . 

( 1 ) An additlopal 15 % Impon 
Cellulose acotato moulding replenishment w !!! bo 
powder/Granulo / Shocts /off allowed for the import of 
cuts /Shoot cuttings . 

Phthalic Plasticisors agalost 
Acrylio Plastic Sboots /off only the exporta of PVC 
outs other then Acrylic moulded/ oxtrudod goods . 
Plastlo Shosts of 0 .83 mm (2 ) Agalost oxports of Poly 
to 1. 2 mm thlakeous 

styrone products , Import or 
( d ) Titanium Diouldo (Ruda Polystyrone moulding poy . 
grado). 

dor only will bo allowed 
(@ ) Callulose Acetate Sorap at 23 % rato of import 
(50 % ) 

replontshment. 
( 1) ABS Mould -ing Powder (3 ) Import of ABS Moulding 

Powder will be allowed 
only against oxport of 
products made of ABS 

Moulding Powder, 
l ent) Polyurethane Foan /sboeting ( 1) Import or Zip /Snap Pasto 
( 2020) . 

Qorx /Mota ) fittings including 
(0 ) Glass boads/cbaton . 

locks shall not excoed 21 % 
Zip /snap fasteners /motel of the value of the licence 
fittags/ looks , 

subjoct to maximad of 
Chlorinated Paraitin 

Rs 50 , 000 
(6) PVC leather cloth of all (2) Import of Zip Fasteners 
forts , 

in coil form will bo allow . 
U PVC should 

od only against export of 
pursos, bags and travol 
goods within the porcent 
agos and value rastrio 
tions referred to in Ro 
mark (1 ) above . 


རྒྱུ 


C . 11 . 


PVC fabricated good , - all sorts 


0 .11 


( moranas record . 4 d scormorio 


10 ) Lithu Positive Negativo 

Colour Truppergoclau 
(0 ) Blank Inoquor Roourdios 
(0) Pro -recorded Tape (20 % 
(d ) PorcelonalMagnetic Tap 

( 20 % ) 
( c ) 8 -Nlokol 
Un Cuttlog at 111 
# 1 Maalvet 


258 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


( PART I - Sec . 1 ] 


Na 


APPENDIX 17 - Conta 


m 


uyrever 


II . MANUFACTURES.-- concld 
C .13 Metallised Plastice 


. 


. 


3 % 


C .14 


Spectacles , Sun Goggles spectacle frames and 15 % 
parts thereof 


(@ ) Pearl Essenco . 
(6 ) Bismuth Oxychloride . 
(c) Glass Beads /Chatons. 
( @ ) Metalfittings including spe (1 ) Additional replenishment at 

ctacle hinges used in spects 35 % will be given for 
cle frames (50 % . 

import of rolled gold and 
(6 ) Nickel. 

gold filled wires /strips /tubes , 
Stainless steel wiro apto fronts /pins and screw . 
3 mm dia (25 % ). 

against export of rolled gold 
Glare glasses/tinted lenses spectacle frames /spectacles / 
plastic lenses . 

rolled gold combination 
(e ) Cellulose Acetate Moulding spectacle frames /spectacles 
Powder /granules / sheets / 

but in such cases , import 
offcuts /sheet cutings . 

of items (b ) and ( c ) la 
Cellulose Acetate Scrap (50A Col. 4 will not be allowed 

(2 ) Exporters of products com 

Vored by this Sl. No. cab 
get themselves registered 
elther with the Chemicals 
and Allied Products Export 
Promotion Council or the 
Plastics and Liaolours Ex 
port Promotion Council 
for the purpose of obtaining 

REP benefits. 
(a ) Aluminium Powder / flakes . (1 ) An additional Import reple 
(0 ) Titanium Dioxide (Rutile nishment of 20 % will be 
grade). 

allowed for the import of 
Chlorinated Parafiin . 

Phthallo Plasticinen only 
(a ) Asbestos Chrysotila . 

5 ) Chlorinated Paraffis , 
( a ) Vlayl Acetato Mononier( 50 A . 
(b ) Chlorinated Paraffia . 
(a) Titaalum Dioxide (luttis 

grado). 
( a ) Titaniom Dioxide (Katile 

grade). 


C . 13 


10 % 


PVC leather cloth /foam leather cloth / 

sheetings supported / unsupported includ . 
lag PVC adhesive tapes . 


C . 16 


Asbestos Floor Tiles 


30 % 


C . 11 


Vlayl Floor Tues . 


30 % 


C 18 


Linoleurt 


er 


© 20 


PVC coated juta bag 


. 


Acrylic Host 


. 


. . . 


33 % 


( a ) Methyl Methacrylate 

Monom . 


Dolls , Toys, Games - All types ,except thons 

made of wood . paper machle and map . 


20 % 


(a ) Tla Plate (25 A . 
(5 ) Souad mechanisms. 
( c) Mpeical movements , 
( D ) Plasticizen (10 % . 
(@ ) PVC ahooto ( 50 % ). 
U Cock wort /Friction me. 


( o Methyl Methacrylate 

Monomer 


D . 


Acrylic /Modified Polyester struciani Bbre 2010 

reinforced panol 
LEATHER AND LEATHERGOODS AND OTHER 

ANIMAL PRODUCTS 
All types of Finished Loatbor , Leather 

belting, picking bands, buffers , phoop 
calf roller skins and leather apropa 


D . 1 .4 


Ofthe delo vigoient colour : (1 ) he exports made on or after 
appearbo 1 Appandix 3 1st September , 1981 quality 
(23 % . 

for import replenisbmeat 

only if they conform to specie 
Taalen Dioxide (1046 

@ catione laid down ander the 
Codian Alginate , Other Indian Standardslasttu tioak 
iba2 dental urade (550 

$ 8190 - 1981 Guidelines 
for Idedicados of Flpianad 

katten for Baport ( hiro 
m # 67041 /Calala Revision ) copied yide Wa 

stry of Pieszce (Dapartmeev 
of ) Noddalon 7 


n ) 


6 


August 1931. 


NA 


er 


( MT 1 - 


भारत का राजपत्न . असाधारण 


1) 
- - 


- LTU 


- 


APPENDIX 


. tone 


- 


--- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


— 


- 


* 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 0 - 1114 Tu 


N 


- 


TOLL - - - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


D . LEATHER AND LEATHER GOODS AND 

OTHER ANIMAL PRODUCTS - Contd 


( ) Sluçon omulsions (3 % ). 
< > Mohalı fabrla of sizo 006 

Orcooding 1 19 . motor och 

( 109A 
CH ) Consumablo look including 

Glass glazlog stone for loa 
thor gladag , sewing noodlo. 
Shaving machino bladas , 
skudding and fashing ma 
ohlno kolva , Baad kalve # 
toi sputting machines 
100 sottlog machino blada , 
Bloctrical trading Loiva , 

(25 % ) 
(n ) Oxailc acid . 
( 0 ) Pontachlorophonol and the 

odlum halt ( 5 % ). 
(p ) Synthetic Organic Taoning 

Agonts. 
(a) Basic Chroilum Sulpbato 

(10 % ). 
( ) Acrylo, Polyurethane 

Emulsions / Binders / Fillers / 

Penetrators ( 5 % ). 
(3) Buffing Papers PH Paper 

and indicator ( 10 % ). 
(1) Gambier Extract. 


D . 2 


Loatbor manufactors the follovlog namely 1 


General Notes : 
( 1) Import of metal zip 

fastoners will be allowed 
upto 10 % of the face 
value of the Ucenço sub 
Joct to a maximum of 
Rs. 50 ,000 /- against oxport 
of products covered by SI, 
Nos. D . 2 . 1 , D .2 .2 D .2 . 3 
and D , 2. 4 , 


D . 2 . 1 


(1) Pootwear (onoluding havad foot 

weat ) - 
( 0 ) Closed 3600 with leather upper 
(b ) Leatbor footwor other than 

glorod shods with loathor uppors . 


293 


( a ) Miquormallino WAX , (1 ) Import of Zlp /snap Faston 

Boot and shoo grindery Qors shall aot Oxceod 21 % 
vls . bifurcated rlvots , of the value of the Moence 
stapling , lasting glugging subject to * maximum of 
and auto -yolar wire . B . 50 ,000 . 
Daobino tacks , band tacks, 
studa /books, stool shank , 
throadod hool All , and 

plos (23 % ) . 
(c ) Zlp /Snap Pastanen . ( 2 ) Import of " sagla itonj 01 

Glass Boads /Glass Coutod . . trimming and opballis 
Polyur ibado Foam . 

оры shall not axpeg 
Stool vo ca / Bot fou and B . , 084 lakh in alw 
-xuntori vſ Dyutbotic mata 
rials sod sheets thoroof 


soas 


( ) Frmmad wad omboid 

0006 # for leather pood 


(1) Backles /Eyolcts and 

decorativo iting for 

footwar. 
( 81 ) Nyloc , faryload . Cof 

ios ,loan and aynshel: 

wela , throud . 
(III ) Polyester Plastlo shoots, 

oxcluding Polyoktor 

Alm palo or metallised 
A ) Andymed . # the 

footwear drulap , 


- 


- - - - 


- 


260 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PATR I- Sec . 1] 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


LY - 


PT 


L 


u 


u 


n 


. 


V 


APPENDIX 17 - Conid . 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- u - - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


1 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - 


ULU 


- 


NU - 

W 


N 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


n 


an : - 


- 


- 


- 


"LOW 


D . LEATHER AND LEATHER GOODS AND 

OTHER ANIMAL PRODUCTS - conid , 


( 0 ) Compoucnti or footwear lociadlogaboo 121 

uppers (excluding components of CAD 
pas shoes ), 


OSES 


( ) Blastie tapo /vobblag 

( 3 . 
(0 ) Nylon voted otufur 

corat tapos aud09c 
kui , yrthotly iweken 

for thos 
(vt) skolcw ( 2 ) 
(A ) Polyamido /polyostor rosina, 

rodo , granuloj or blocks 
(adhealvos) including prl 
port ( 10A 
Shod lasts (23 % . 
Footwear compoocot la 
cluding and folou and 
boolo , 
Packiny materials , viz ., card 
board cartong. 
Consumablc tools, testing 
culpmon , Josigners" kit, 
pre -punche: de usod 
(A loather ludustry , sllyor 

marking fills . (10 % ). 
(1 ) Rubber /cope lo ancor fur 

solo and bools , 
c ) Self -adhesivo tapos oxclud 

Ing plastic and transparopt 

vhoose Alm teper (3 % ). 
(0 ) Polyurothano Foam in 

cluding laminated with 
cotton / aylon /synthetic /wool 
fabrics. 
Mlorocrystallino Paz ( 1) Impurt of Zip /anap fastenere 
Zlp /Soap Fastenor . 

(including dips in coils ) 
Glass Beads /Glass Chatons , abul got oxocod 5 % of the 
Polyurothane Foam . 

valuu of the lloongo subject 
Trimmings And opbellish 104 norimum of Rs. 50 .000 , 
monts for laither goods viz ., 
( ) Buoklas /Byolets and ( 2 ) Impert of Bloglo item of 

dogorativo fittings for tromy and ombcllab 
oho upport . 

monts shall not oxcoed 
(11 ) Nylon , terylond, Cor Ro. ooolakh lo valuo . 

ton , loob and gynthotic 

sowing thread 
(II ) Polyester Plastic Shoots 

oxcluding polyator film 

plain or metallLod . 
(11 ) Roadymade leathai 

footwear drosslogs . 
( v) Blastlc tape /vebblog 

( 3 % ) . 
( vt) Solf -adhesivo tapos 

excluding plastio end 
transparent visoko 

Alm tapos (974 ). 
( ) Polyamide /Polyostor rosins , 

rods, granules or blooks 
(adhesives ) focluding prl 

moro ( 10 ) 
( 9 ) Consurpaulo fold. dung 

aquiprugat. doivoon " 
pro - punched card wood 
in loathor industry and 

silver marking refills ( 10 % ) . 
(A ) Stoel too caps/Box toos and 

counters of synthotic mate 
rials and booth thordor 

(23 % ) 
(1 ) Shoe 13H ," 
u ) Stoul taafu n g , 
INI Mechi: ¢ Acky 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- -- 


- 


( HT 1 - 


1 ) 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


261 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


TT 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 11 tonia . 


- - 


- 


-- - , - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- -- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- - - - - - 
D . LEATHER AND LEATHER GOODS AND 

OTHER ANIMAL PRODUCTS - Concld . 
D 2 . 2 Light categorie , of travel and other leather 19 % 

goods liko attacho cascs , hfic Casca , ladia 
hand bags Wallets , loather gormeot , 
pursa , loather hand glove othor than 
Industrial lochor gloome power hy 1 
No 1 . 2 . 4 


1 


5 % 


( m ) Microcrystalline W # * ( 1 ) Against expor of leather 
( D ) Lucks, Suitcast fittings and garments, Import toplenish 
Mutal fittings , 

ment will drplasiblo gi 
ir ; Zip / Snap Partanen , 

10 % lastead of 13 % 
Glaxo Bado /Glam Cha (2 ) Import of Zip Snap Fasto 
tona , 

gon ( Including any lo coll : 
Polyarethana Pram obooth . Add Ite component ) shalt 

Trimmings sad srbelllah not excood % % of tho value 
mot for leather good wdo . of the Hornoo snbject to a 

maximum of Ra 0 . 000 , 
( ) Buoklos/ Byclot) and ( 3) Samo as romark (2 ) against 
doooratlvo Attinga . 

Sl. No. D . 2 . 1 (1). 
(1 ) Nylon , torylono, cotton , ( 4 ) Suoh Itom of trimmings 

lloon and other syothe and ombollishmonts as ara 
Hic sowing throad . 

pot Inoluded in column 4 
(11) Polyostor plastlo shoots , against this Sarlal Nambor 

excluding Polyester Alm but appoar io Itom (a ) 
plain or notallised . 

undor Col. 4 against 
» Radymado leather S . No. 0 . 1 will 
goods drossings , 

also be allowed against 
(v ) Elastic cloth , olastic ta exports of feather 
pos , webblag ( 5 % ) . 

garments, gubject to tho 
(v /) Artificial fur cloth . 

condition that tho import 
1) Solf-adesive tapos cx of a singlo iton shall not 

cluding plastic and excood Rs. Opo lakh in 
transparent viscose value within tho Overall 
Alma tapos (5 % ). 

valuo of tbo llconoc . 
( p ) Consumable tools used in (5 ) Within the valuo of tho 

leather industry including REP llconce, Import ot 

Bilver marklog rofjus (5 % . Polyester Wadding will be 
(h ) Polyester self adhesivo fas allowed against export of 
tonor. 

leather garments with a 
Hook and loop typo faste face value restriction of 
ners. 

(6 ) Within the value limit 

allowed for import of 
Trimming , and Embellish 
monts , Import of Fusiblo / 
Double Fusible /Non -Wo 
von Fusible / Cotton Fusi 
blo and all types of Fusiblo 
Interlinings will be allowed 
upto 5 % only against 

exports of loather garmonta . 
(7 ) Joport of 4 duminios not 

excoeding 25 % of tho 
value of the licence will 
be allowed by the licenslog 
authority against each 
REP liconce within the 

Salud of the licence 
( 8 ) Import of Polyostor self 

adhesive fastenor will be 
alowod only against axport 

of leather garments. 
( a ) Microcrystalline Wax 

( 1 ) Samo on recuark ( ) again 
(6 ) Locks, guitcase Attlogs And S , No. 1 .2 . 2 . 

motal fittings 
Zip / Snap Fastanon . 
Polyurethado Foam Shooti . 
Tommings and ombellion 
monts roguired for saddlery 
Ako buckles , thread, adhout 
vo study , nap / xuriyet 
hook ( 23 . 

Saddlo tro 
( a ) Zip tastonota . 

( 1 ) Samo as romark (2 ) Agalant 
Polyurethane Foam Shouta . Sl No . . 2 . 2 . 
(C ) Nylon , forylene, cotton , 

licen and synthede BCW0g 

threads (10 ) 
( a ) Packingmaterial, viz., LDPE . 
( a ) Packiog niaterial, viz . LDPE. ( 1 ) Import of ripplate will be 
( b ) Tin plate , 

allowed only against export 
of paint brushes , 


D . 2 . 3 


Heavy leather goods liko saddicry Itemna, 10 % 

loather trunks, leather guitcase . 


IS990 


D . 2 . 4 


Industrial leather gloves . 


Bilatles/other antipal balr 
Paint brushes locluding other brushes nade 

out of animal hair. 


3 % 
3 % 


D . ) 


UL 


262 
- - -- - 


[PART I - Sec . 1 ] 


- - 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
- - - 

ArrENDLX 17 .- LONTO . 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


ESPORTS GOODS 
B . I 

Sports goods, got ellowhoro apretilor 


15 % 


SSSSSSSSSSSS 


( Snap Pastodons ( Poor Parta ). (1 ) Import or Item (a ) 
Zlp Pantonen (59A . 

Aball got orood Rs. 50 , 000 

Ip valao, 
(A ) Bxpanding locks for sport ( 2) Import of Items (1) and ( m ) 
bags ( 10 % ) 

will be allowed only against 

cxport of footballa . 
(0 ) Titanlum Dioxide (Rutilo (3 ) Against expON of Plsblog 
Prade) (10 % ) 

Alou covorod by thl Sl. No . 
only the following items wi}} 

be allowod 
(d) Sillore Emulsions ( 20 %) . ( ) Foothers . 
(4 ) Blootroplating kalts Add (I ) fur synthetic . 
brightoport (10 % ) . 

( IN ) Fishing ily hoob . 
Nlokal. 

( 4) Against oxports of al doo 
Synthetto resina and blo covered by this SL No., Im 
don . 

pon of only soamless stool 
Polyurethane foam shooth tubos for als ile berroli il 
for gloves and pado . 

be allowed. 
( ! ) Polyurothane coatod nylon ( 5) Import of glass Abre shoot 

cloth for gloves and log Ing will be allowod only 
guards. 

against oxport of hockey 
Tablo tennis rubber shoots. sticka roinforced with glas 
Racket preos Attings (20 % ) . Abro sheeting. 
Polyurethano shoots for (0 ) Import of itero (1) 10. 
footballs. 

polyurethano coated nylon 
( m ) Nylon lining for footballs . oloth for glover and log 
(n ) Organic pigmont colours guards will be allowed only 
in Appondix 3 (5 % ). 

against oxport of glove and 
(0 ) Linon thread ( 5 % ) . 

leg -guards . 
Packing material, viz . 
LDPE (IA 


E , FISH AND FISH PRODUCTS 


General Note : 1 – 
( 1) In caso vhor Col4 

permits the import of TIA 
plato primo OTS quality / 
MR typo , the licenco boldor 
may also import OTS con 
taloon whithin tho value of 
tho llocnoo. Additional 
impor roploplabmont At 
the rate of 15 % ! also 
bo allowod for import of 
OTS container , 


7 . 1 . 2 


Candod lieb - 
( ) Canped Sardines 


. 


. 


35 % 


Tlo plato primo OTS (1 ) Import of To Plato Primo 

quality /MR typo /OTS cans MR typo covered by iton (a ) 
(0 ) Aluminium sardino cans, in Column 4 shall be allowod 

Ringpull/ Tear-off (20 % ) . only upto 70 % of the Hoenco 
Lacquor ( 5 % ) . 

value within the value of the 
Doublo rofinod oil for 

liconco . 
preservation (5 % . 
(a ) Same as agalont (1) above . 


( 11) Otor canned fish 


. 


. 


107 


P . 1 . 3 


All othens (lacluding frog logs) 


. 


6 % 


( al Packing materials, pamoly 

Polyethylono moulding 
powder , Polyethylono gra 
nulet , cartons, cardboard , 
kraft paper liner of a 
stropgtb 225 gme por 84 . 
motor and moro and tin 
plate prime OTS 4uality / 
MR tyre , 

Fishing booke. 
(c ) Hydrogen Poroxldo/ Tartaric 

Aold (20 % ). 


(1 ) Fish and Fish products ir 

oxportod in " Individually 
Qulok Frozon " form , wdi 
also be eligible for RĘP 
licenco at 6 % for import 

of jtoms in Col. 4 . 
(2 ) Against exports of Islo 

glass (processed fish Daws) 
import of (a ) Sodiuru Iso 
ascorbate And (b ) Sodium 
Meta blaulphito will also 
be allowed upto 20 % with 
in the overall valuo of the 
REP licence . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


U 


v 


ra U 


- 


1 - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- . . -- -- - --- 


( 


I 


1) 


भारत का राजपत्र प्रसाधारण 


263 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 
-- 


VE - - 

- 


- - LOR , 


nu - 


APPENDIX 
- - - - - - - - - - - -- - 

- - - - - - - - - - - -- - 
F . PISH AND FISH PRODUCTS Conid . 


(3) Import of Tin Plate Prime 

MR type covered by item ( a ) 
in column 4 shall be allowod 
only upto 50 % of the licenco 
valuo within the value of tho 
liconco 
Import of Hydrogen Per 
oxldo and Tartario Acid 
will be allowed only against 

oxport of Isinglass 
(o) Connected Breeding stock . 
(6 ) Artenia / Brino. 
( C ) , Shrimp Eggs . 


( 4 ) 


F.1.4 


Aquarium Fish 


. 


. 


. 


. 


15 % 


4 . Foous 


General Notes - 
( 1 ) In cases whicro Col. 4 

permits thc Import of Tip 
plate prime OTS quallty / 
MR. type , the licence hol 
der may algo import OTS 
containers within the value 
of the conco . Additional 
import repllonlshmont at the 
rato of 15 % will also be allow 
ed for import of OTS con 
tainers , 
Import of Tin Plato prlne 
MR type , whorevor allowed 
In Column 4 in this pro 
duct roup shall be permitted 
upto 50 % of tho licence Value 

within the value of the licence . 
(8 ) Packing material, nomoly . 

HDPB / Polypropylene, 


Onions other than dehydratod 


37 


Othor froh frults / vogota blo / vegetable cmodo 

lovers /dowor goods 
(1) ( a ) Freab frulto , vogotables and dowon 


10 


( ) Packlog material, namely (1 ) lo also of item (c ) in column 

LDPR , ADPR , Polypro 4 , please see para 8 of 
pylond, plastlo pota, GRP Goneral Conditions in this 
roof lito boota , kraft Voor Appendia , 
und Fluting media , Grapo 
roard papor , kraft papor. 
tudo paper for apping 

Peat mon . 
d ) odlum Metablgalpine 

(10 
( o ) Chomtoal . Appearlog is 

Appoodi 3 And used in 
qulivation / growth of fruits . 
vegetables and foworo , Aod 
froshoging chemicals for 
fruits , vegetable and 

Flowers , 
( d ) SeedA /bulbs /mother plant 

good plasm . 
e ) Poarllin horticaibare frado 

and vormloulato 
la ) Samo a lterna (a ) to (o ) ( 1 ) Sum 4 Remark ( 1 ) in 

against Sl. No. 6 . 2007a ) Column S against Sl. No. G . 
Ibnye 

2 (IXa ) above . 
0 m m Por Afriminadopi ( 1 ) In caso of Itom (c ) In volumn 
plapting 

4 , plongo te pare 8 of 
Al Packlag materlal, oamely , General Conditiopo in this 

LDPE , Alumlolum roll, Appendli . 
GRP roofllte shoots , Pcat 
ITOSA , laminatot sorte . 


(6 ) Individually quick frozen vogotablos, 


10 % 


II ) Soods of Poodgrala , 

Anven , fruito ad bodgov . 


vogaubia 


13° 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


OWO 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


HT 


(PART I- Sec . 1]" 


264 
- - = 


= 


= 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
= - - - - 

APPENDIX 17 -- Contd . 
-- - 

- - - - - - -- - - - - 


- - -- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


-- - - 


- - - - 
- - 


, 


, 


, -- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


W 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


G , FOODS Conrad 


sg 


. 


1 ) Livo plants . Ornamental plats , Prus 102 
planta , Rosdade tren , olimbiru , 07 . 
Der And when bu 


gss៖sas 


Chemicals and othor tom # 
Appearlog in Appendix 3 
ugod for treatment/ procou 

slag of soods. 
(d ) Sodiam Motabisulphia 

( 107 ) 
kvi Stook soods for parost linor 

materials/ soodu /plam 480 

form plann . 
V Ilvo planta , bolbo, sabort, 
8 ) Pearlto horticulturo inata 

and vormiculato . 
(A ) Thiram . 
(6 ) Captan Formulations . 
U ) Bonlato. 
(d ) Lanato , 
(0 ) Packing matodal , namo ( 1 ) In CABO of Itcm (0 ) 

ly . LDPE , HDPE , Plastic column 4 , plcaso 8¢¢ para 8 
pots, ORP rooflite sboot , of Ganorg1 Conditions in 
Poat1041 

Tala Appondli 
(A Stock loods for parcot 

Noor and quolop mater . 

Als / soods/ plants and 

perm plast . 
Vo ) Chemicals and other items 

such as plant shino, app 
carloglo Appendix 3 
for treatment/processing of 

soods and plant ( 20 % ). 
( d ) Llye planta , bulbs , tubon 

subject to oltaranco by 
the Plant Protootlo . Da 

Dartmogi. 
(* ) Pertilizon . 
( కండu Motabluulphire 

( 10 % ) . 
( 0 ) Posrlto horticulture and . 

und Vermicubato , 
A ) Tolna , 
O Captan foroorlatok , 
0 ) Bonlato . 
(* ) Ladala . 
( a ) Packing materiala , V . ( 1 ) Antom 47 lun lagi 
Polyurethana. 

teroro wred in poultry 
brooding farms will also be 
allowed to be imported 
within the overall valu 

of the RBP llenoa . 
(a) Grand parent stock /poul- (1) Import of Grand paranı 

took (poultry ) will be 
(b) Packing naturlals, wit . allowod only to reglatorad 
Polyurethane (20 . 

katchorlas approved by the 
Dopartmont of Agriculture 
Govt. of Ladia , Noy De . 
Tho mazlum value opto 
blah wack jack patchory 

Ill be eligible to obtala 
Import roplanluhmoi 
Monaco os ita exportadarlag 
the licensing year yili by 

B 3 . 0 Inths . 
( 2 ) Exports hy alr only !} 

qualify for REP Icopoet , 
Automatic fcodort and 
paterers osod in poultry 
brooding farms will also be 
allowed to be imported 
within the overall valuo of 
the RBP Ilcopra 


6 .3 


3 % 


« Poultry products including cafeDOC of 

chicken , and poultry moat, 


( II) 


Llve abicks and hatobing ogg: 10 % 


ty). 


- - 


LLLLL 


- VW 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


11 . VN 


( 71l- - 


i ) 


भारत का राजपन असाधारण 


265 


APPENDIX 17-- Contd. 


2 


3 


O . FOODS - Conid . 

(iii) Table eggs 


. 


. 


. 


3 % 


(a ) Grand parent stock (pou). (1) Import of Grand parent 
try ). 

stock (poultry ) will be 
(b ) Paper Egg Trays . 

allowed only to rogistered 
(c ) Packing materials , viz., hatcharles Approved by the 
Polyurethane .. . 

Deptt. of Agriculture, Govt . 
of India , Now Delhi. Tho 
maximum value upto which 
cach hatchery will be eligi 
blo to obtain import replo 
oishment licence on its 
Gxports for this item during 
the licensing year will be 
Rs. 50 , 000 . 
Samo as in Remarks (2 ) 
and ( 3) against Sl. No 
0 . 3 (ii) above . 


(1) Presh , chillyd or frozen meu ! 


3 % 


(0 ) Packing matorta ), vis.. 

LDPB /HDPE , material for 
vacuum packing of moat. 


(i ) Anunal Canings 


. 


. 


. 


(til) Canned Meat 


10 % 


Packing material is. 
LDPE . 
Ray Animal caglag of 
callbr. 18 top and abovo . 
Tiaplato prim . OT $ quality 
M . R . typo . 

Easy Open / Flip top ondı. 
(c ) Water based rubber com 

pound . 


0 . 3 . 1 


10 % 


Processed / preservod foods , dohydrated 

foods, dehydratod onions, debydratod 
garlo, pickles and chutney . 


53SoS§60 


(a ) Tin plato primo OTS qua - ( 1) Exporters of fisb plokles co 
1 ty / M . R , typo . 

vered by this Sorial Number 
(0 ) Twist off caps . 

can got themselves registered 
Easy open / Flip top ends . either with the Marine Pro 
LDPE /HDPE , " Viscoso ducts Export Development 
transparodt paper (collo Authority or with the Pro 
phano ), 

oorsod Foods Export Promo 
Flavouring asscoco (10 % ) . tion Council , for the purpose 
Asceptic bags (10 % ). 

of obtaining REP boncits 
(2 ) Import of Asceptic bags 

within the overall value of 
the licence will be permited 
if the products under column 
2 havo bocn exported 
in Ascoptic bags. 


32 


Alcoholic beverages 


10 % 


( a ) Flapouring essence of ( 1 ) Import of Browery hops 

rum , gio , whisky , brandy will be allowed only against 
and yodka , with alco export of Beer upto 10 % 
holic content not more of tho REP licence within 
than 18 % 

the overall value of the 
(0 ) Packing matorials , viz ., licence. 

artons, aard board boxes , 
Kraft papor , Pary opon / 

Flip Top Ends 
( ) Pear. 


Malt spiri/ Gnp spirit, i 
bolt , with alcoholic con 
lai not more than 18 % 


Allscoils and antu, valor blauw , ruh ind 9 % 

tc . tom cones. 


( ) MOL povdor. 

Vaalilin / Ethyl vanlis ( % ) . 


Pagti manal , viz .. 
Paplate prin O . T . S . 
quality / M . A . typu, Alo 
minium foll , krah paper. 


- 


W -1SVO 


58 GT785 - 18 . 


266 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART I — Sec . 1] 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDLX, 17 - Cowa. 


G . FOODS - Coord . 
6 ,6 Fruit juices, nectars and pulpa /concentrato 


10 % 


OS 


(1) Import of Asceptic bags 

within the overall value of 
licence will be permittod if 
the products In column 2 
havo been exported in 
Asceptic bags . 


(a) Tin plato primo O . T.S 

quality / M . R . typo . 
Packing matorlaló , viz. , 
LDPE HDPE , Cartons, 
Card board boxos, Kraft 
paper, Easy Open /Flip Top 

Ends . 
c) Twlut ott cupe. 
( d ) Flavourag 

Honda 
(10 % ) . 
(2) Asceptic bags ( 1099 ). 

Synthetlo odontial oils . 
(0 ) Mixtures of Odorfforous 

pubxtanca . 
(a ) Milk powder . 
( ) Packing material, viz.. 

collopape/Lamloata. 


G . 8 


Non -alcobolic beverage basei . 


, 


. 4 % 


G 10 


(1) Codloottopory (oxcluding chewing gun , 10 % 

bubblo gum and peanut candy) . 


(1 ) Chowlog kam , bubble gom mod peonat 67 

candy and Tomo candy. 


G . 11 


Indlan Iwostin 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 10A 


(0 ) Packing Datorlat (Calle 

phaneLaminato ) . 
(1) Synthetic ako tat olla 
(c) Paraffin wax (25 % ). 
( a ) To plate primo O . T . $ . (1 ) Import of milk powder 

quality / M . R . typo , Aluml will bo allowed only against 
glum foil. 

oxports of gulab Jamun 
Cashow qui . 

Including gulab Jamuu mix , 
( c ) Milk powdor , 

rasgola , carrot halwa, burd , 
Easy open /Flp top ends , sandesh , peda mix and such 
( a ) Flavouring essence ( 10 % ) other Indian iwcota whoro 

milk is used as an ingro 

dicat . 
(a ) Packlog material, vz., 

Il plato pro O . T . S . 
quality /MR typo, card 

boards, cartons , LDPE . 
( ) Ethyl vapillin ( 13 % ). 


DOS 


G . 12 


Custard poudar 


G . 13 


Loslant foodi 
(1) Cadded 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 107 


(0 ) Is oth 


package . 


. 


. 


. 37 


( 1) Tinplato primo O . T . S . 

quality /M . R . type. 
(0 ) Mülk powder ( 20 % . 

Flavouring osscoa ( 10 % ) 
( ) Packing materials , DATI 

ly . Aluminium to h . 
LDPB , Kraft Dapur , W * 

too . 
( ) Flavouring of 600o ! (207) . 
( ) Mik powdor (20 % . 


6 .14 


(1) Packing 

LDPE 


nuturlar. 


iz . 


2 . 15 


Ampans fritters , potato waion and magn 3 % 

valer , 
Dry frolts (oxcindlog outbou Kornela byt 4 
Tocluding walogt karls And Aprugt 
karbole ). 


( + ) Packing tuatorials, 2 , 

LDPE , Glandau papor , 
Kraft papar, cardboard 
cartoos . Palyothylono/ 
Plastic bond strappings , 

Parchopt papat . 
* * ) Packing material lition 

J.DPH 


G. 16 


IDD Inachallke Chlvd. , Dal moth , Prod 67 

And altod moong dal. che dal c . in 
Copa Deckt . 


0 . 17 


Melon kerala ( dohusted ) 


24 


(a ) Baby open , Flip top end . 
L ) Fachine mxtulale , riza 

LDPH . 
(a ) fidplato primo UTS qua 

ity / M . R . typo . Alumi 


G .18 


(1) Tos /Coffoo mu powder (Instant cette 

coffee ). 


6 % 


pium foil. 


- 


( 477T | - -IT 1 ) 


भारत का रामपन्न साधारण 


267 
= 


ES 


=- = - 


= 


- = - = - = - 


APPENDIX I - loni , 


Lī 
- 


- 


G . FOODS - Conid , 

(11) Tau la bae 


, 


. 


6 % 


(a) Nyloo wob and filter 

papor for toa bagu . 
(0 ) Pauking material, vz., 

Cardboard cartons , 
Aluminium fon , Ivory 

board . 
(a ) Packing matarlals , viz., ( 1) Import of Tin Plato wasto 

Tlaplate wasto waste , LDPE , waste covered by itom (a ) 
Ivory board for cartons, in Column 4 shall be allow 
card board, Alunginium foil, od only upto 50 % of tho 
Glaşsino papor . 

llocnco valuo within the 
Value of the licence . 


(I. ) Toa /Coffoe in congumer packs 


6 % 


G . 19 


6 % 


Papads (including pappadams, appalams, 
appalappoo , vadams, warians and 
Kharkara ). 


(a) Packing 

LDPE . 


material, 


vz., (1) If the products in column 2 

are exported with spocial 
packaging liko Polypropy 
lono bags /Pouches (hoat 
soalad ) Insorted in Duplex 
Board /coatod board car 
tons of tuck -o - type and 
outer packing with shrink 
wrapping or overwrapping 
with Plastic Alms, the 
Import replenishmont ad 
missible would be 10 % 
instead of 6 % . 


G . 20 


Butter nod ghco 


. 


. 


6 % 


( ) Tloplato primo OrS quali 

ty /M .R . type 
(v ) MIE powder. 


0 . 21 


G . 22 


Ice -cream and ice cream powder 
Guar Gam /Sonbaats Gum - 
( ) Acused 


3 % 


(11) Trosted and Polverinod 


67 


6 .23 


Nat ban 


(1) Chooolata amplted at oude 
(1 ) Coconbon 


(th ) Cocoapovdor, 


10 % 
3 % 
6 % 


· 


) Packing material viz , 

braft paper . 
( ) Packing material. Viz 

LDPE , kraft papor . 
( ) Sodium Silico Fluorldo 
( 6) Rotorolnol (20 % ). 
( d ) Sodium Motabiqulrbite 
(w ) Bonzalkonlum chlorido. 
( A Modo Chloro -acetic Aold . 
(8 ) Hydrogen peroxido. 
6 ) gak and nylon holting 

plotb. 

Mis powder , 
(.) Paokhag matortal, vis . LDPE. 
(a ) Paoling material, viz. Tin 

plato primo OTS quellty / 

MB type. 
voi Pucklay materials , ., 

LDPA , HDPE , Tinplato 
primo OTS quality /MR 
ipo , Aluminium foli, Glas 

# Laa /Butter paper. 
( a ) Poker matarlais , vtz., 

LDPE , Tlaplate primo 

OTS quality /MR type 
a ) Proting materials , viz ., 

Tipplate primo O . T . S . 

quality /M . R . typo . LDPE . 
(6 ) Flip top onds /Emy coda . 
( a ) Packing materials viz., Poly - (1 ) Import of Tin Plato MR 

othylone Moulding Powdor, typo covorod by item (a ) 
Polypropylone laminated in col. 4 shall be allowed 
packing materials, Alumi only upto 50 % of faco 
nlum and composito COD valuo of the licenco . 


10) Cronu butter 


10 % 


0 .24 


Seotud Supurl/FaxMOE T 


6 . 26 


Pranpt products , such a 

roasted peanute 


roopat bantteva , 67 


G .27 


Roasted and Salted Peanuts in consumer 6 % 

packs of 1 Kg. or loss . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


--- 


268 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - - Sec . 1 ] 


- 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 17 - Consd . 


I 


G , FOODS - - concld. 


tainers, Tin plato Prime (2 ) Import replenishment licen 
OTS quality/MR typo , Card ces issued under this S 
Board Cartons, Kraft Liner No . will also be valid for 
Papor . 

import of OTS Containers 
Aluminium Foil , 

within the overall value of 
Aluminium laminato Poly the licence . 
ethylone and Built-up 
Pouchos . 


6 . 28 


Musbroom 


, 


. . . 


. 


. 


. 


2 % 


0 . 29 


. 


Ayu . . . 
Iplo , oD and Oleo radon . 


. 
. 


. 
, 


3 % 
4 % 


6 .30 


0 .31 


() Spices whole lo bulk packing 


. 


. 


3 % 


(U ) Spices ground or curry powder and 

pasto in bulk packing, 


6 % 


Packlog materials, piz., (1) Against exporta of Mush 
Glastne papor , kraft paper , roomscanned , additional 
card board cartons, Poly Import roplonishmentat 5 % 
ethyleno strappings, Plastic of the fob value of export 
box strappings . 

will be allowed for Import 
of Tinplate primo OTS 
quality /MR typo 49 

packing material, 
(a) Packing material. Wa.. 

LDPB . 
( ) Pacldog materials , Wix , 

Tinplate prim . O , T . S . 
quality / M . R . type, high 
density polyethylene palls 
and steel drums (epoxy 

lined ). 
(0 ) Phenyl Ethyl Alcobol. 
(a ) Packing materials viz ., 

LDPE , Tinplate, Card 

board cartons, 
(6 ) Polythene Woven Sacks. 
(a ) Packing materials viz ., 

LDPE , Tinplate Prime OTS 
quality /MR type. 
Polytheno Woven sacks. 
Packing materials viz ., 
LDPE , Tinplato, Card 
board cartons. 

General Notes 1 
( 1 ) Articlos which are classif . 

able clsewhere in this po . 
licy will be deemed to be 
Handicrafts falling in this 
group only if such articles , 
besides being made by 
band , have somo artistic 
or decorative value ; they 
may or may not possess 
functional utility value in 
addition , Artistic or de 
corative value of the article 
exportod noed oot nocoska 
Hlly como out of any art 
work , cograying or do 
coratlot done on the article 
but the vory form , shape 
or design of the article 
could also be artistic and 
Buggestive of the fact that 
tho article Lo primarily 
meant for decorativo And 
not for utility purposes 


10 % 


( III) Spices whole or ground or curry 

powder and paste in consumer packs 

of 1 kg. or less under brand names . 
H . HANDICRAFTS 


( 2 ) For the purpose of calcu 

tating REP beseft Op 
export of Handicrafts con 
tainiog not more than 50 % 
ellver by weight, the licon 
glog authority viB exclud . 
the value of silver from the 
1. 0 . b . valuo of tho otport 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


(HTTI -- U : 1) 


भारत का राजपन्न . प्रसाधारण 


269 


- 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDLX 17 - Conia , 


3 


m 


H . HANDICRAFTS - Concld . 


product. The balance f.ob. 
value of otport will only be 
oligiblo for RBP bonefits if 
otherwise admisible under 
tho polloy . Applications 
should be accompanlod by 
· Cbartorod Accountant 
Or a Government labora 
tory certificate indloating 
the quantity of allver con 
tont and Its yalue used in 
the export produột based 
on which to Iconging 
authority will work out 
the REP entitlemont after 
excluding thº valuo of 
tilver , 


( 3 ) 


Handicraft contalo moro 
than 50 % ellvor by weight, 
ao REP bonofits will be 
Admissiblo thorcon . 


H1 


Handicrafts of aluminium , copper, brash, 40 % 
bidri, bronze , bell metal and wbito netal . 


( a ) Copper wire barn ( 70 % ). 
(1 ) Zinc (30 % ). 
(c ) Tip ( 15 % ) 
( d ) Aluminium , 


(1 ) Import of Item ( c ) will be 

allowed only against export 

or Bidd and Bell Metals . 
( 2 ) Import of Itom (d ) only 

will be allowed against 
oxport of handicrafts of 
Aluminium , 


(3 ) Exporton of EPNS Waras , 

who aro registerod witb 
Dovolopmont Commis 
dooor for Handicrafts , wil 
not bo required to bo 
roglato rod with Enginoorlog 
Bxport Promotion Council , 


H . 2 


Bells and other handicrafts mado or vrougbi 10 % 
Iron and coated with copper . 


(a ) Coppor wire barı. 


H . A 


Real and Imitation mari, zar woven / co )- 30 % 
broidery materiala (excluding zal woven 
garoos, yardago and garments ) and Zari 
embroidei od plocas . 


( a ) Copper wire bars. 
(6 ) Raw Silk ( 10 % . 
( c) Emery polishing paper, 


(1 ) This Serial Number does 

not covor export of metallic 
yarn and polyestor metal 
lisod film . 


H . 6 


Handicraft, of paper and pepor-machlo 
lined with coppor or brasa . 


10 % 


(a ) Copper wire barn. 
(6 ) Zinc . 


H . 8 


Manufactures ofMarblo or Alabaster Inlaid 
with soml-precious stona , 


6 % 


(0 ) Motal fittings (25 % ) . 
(0 ) Glass Chatops and bouda 
(c ) Soml- precious stonom 


( 1 ) Additional import replc 

alshment at 5 % of 1. 0 . b . 
valuo of cxports will be 
alowed for Import of soml 
procious stones only against 
oxports of Manufacturer 
of Marble or Alabastor in 
lald with somi-precious 
stonci, 


H . 9 


6 % 


Other Handicrafts (excluding woollco car 
pots , rugs and druggots and silk carpets ), 
such as wood carvings , band bags , etc . 


( a ) Locks and motal ittlog 

(25 % . 
(6 ) Glass chatons and banda , 
(c ) Zip fastonors ( 40 % ). 
( d ) Semi- proclous stona . 


( 1) Import of Zip fastenen 

will be allowod only agalnst 
oxports of hand bags co 
vered by this Sodal Num 
bor, 


H . NO 


Handmado lace and lace goods 


( a ) Packing materials, vis.. 

LDPE , Polypropyleno, 
Kraft paper (25 % ) . 

Dyos lo Appendlt 3 . 
(o Hydrosulphite of rode 

( 10 % . 
- - - 

- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


270 


[ PART 1 -- Sec . 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
- - - - 

APPENDLX 17 Conta 


- - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- . 


L CASHEW KERNELL 

Casbow Kordon 


LL 


10 % 


( a ) Packing 
(a ) Packing , Datorial 

Datorlalu , s. 
Polyothylong Moulding 
Powder, Polypropyleno 
Laminatod packlog mato 
rala , Aluminium and com 
posito containers , Tio plate 
primo/OTS quality / M . R . 
Typo . Cardboard cartoni . 
kraft Unor poper . 


(1 ) Against exports of Cashew 

komels , roasted and writoa , 
In consumer packs, tbo Items 
of import will be the paok 
log materlals mentioned in 
Columo 4 and Alumlalum 
loll , Aluminium laminatca 
polyethyleet mad bulle P 

pouchar . 
( 2 ) Import roplentetmost icon 

co Lwoed under this Sortal 
Number will also be yulid 
tok luport of OTS con 
talpon within the value of 

tho Liceoco . 
(3 ) Import of Tin plate MR 

type Covorod by itom ( a ) 
in column 4 shall bo 
allowed only upto 50 % of 
valuo within tho value of 
tho the loonco . 


J. TOBACCO AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS 

Uopanufactured tobacon . 


. 3 % 


Processed Tobacco , 4. 8 ., Zarda , Snuf 

Kimam and hookka pasto . 


2 % 


(a ) Oval galvanisert high top 

ello stool wire . 
Corrugatod Fibro Board 
Boxes . 
Kraft Paper Including 

Waterproof Kraft Paper . 
( a ) Packing materials , viz ., 

Card Board Boxos , Tin 
plate waste wasto , LDPB 

and alumlolum foil . 
(a) Domanufactured tobacco . 
( ) Packing qatorlat , viz ., 

Cartons und Card Board 
for Cartona , Cellophang, 
Aluminium foil 


Clomrollow (Including Plpo tobacco) . 


6 % 


Clgant 
Clgar mado with Indigenous Álter tobacco 


13 % 


Cigare made with importod ølter tobacco. 


60 % 


(a ) Cigar wrapper tobacoo . 
( A ) Packing poatorlab , 

100 paper ( 23 % . 
(a ) Fumar kobuxo. 
(. ) Cigar Wrappor tobuose , 
(0) Puckla , balorthi, vi 

tuo papor ( % . 
(a) Packing dia terlain , wit , 

Card board ortoar. 


BidL 


. 


. 


. 


. 


2 % 


PTILES 


Gunal Notes 
( 1 ) Imprit ny packing roalectal 

Iko doted poly - baga / poly , 
propylcoo bags will be allo . 
wod upto 331 % of the 
Import replenishmont per 
octago adolublo against 
esporu of mondo-op articlor 
covered by the Product 
Groop Whoo colamo 4 
lodioata sopanato entry of 
packing material, tholmpon 
of printod poly -ban be 
allowal oply within the 
valuo earmarked for impon 
of packlog material, 


( HT 1- 11) 


भारत का राजपत्र . प्रमाधारण 


271 


APPENDIX 17 - Conid . 

- - - - - 
3 


- - - - 


- 


2 


. COTTON TEXTILES 

Cotton yarn , fabrics and made-up articles, 10 % 

locludlog ombroidered ( other than woy ) 


( a ) Titaalum dlorida (Rotllo 

Grade ) . 

Slloono Bmulsioni 
( c ) Sodium Hydropolpito 

( 5 % ). 
Bronzo Powder (121 % ). 
Paraffin Wax (25 % . 
Dyo to Appendu 9 
( 10 % . 


(1 ) Bxport of cotton fabric 

(other than groy ) will only 
quallfy for loport roplo 
nishment liconce . This 
rostriction will not apply to 

oxport of handloom fabria . 
( 2 ) Cotton durrlos ara covorod 

by tbo dosoription to co 
lumn 2 against this Soriol 
Nurobor 


( 3 ) Import of Zip Fastenors 

iacluding zip coils will bo 
alowed upto 3 % of the 
faco valuo of the liconco 
against export of made- up 
articles only . 


1). WOOLLEN TEXTILIU 

Worted yuro , wwwllou fabria and mude 
up crucia , including mbroldered . 

sontalntay more than 50 % wa 11 / 
Mohol by walght 


(1) Worstod yaro / labrian /made op articles 

Including cothroldered 


20 % 


( a ) Raw Wool, 
6 ) Polyester tops ( 20 % ). 

Packing mutorials , 
LDPB , Polypropy- - 
love, kraft paper (10 


) 


( 1 ) Import of Mohair tops 

will however be 10 
wod agald stosports of 
prodocts fallog vodor thlu 
Sorial Numbor and coo 
talnim moro tbad 307 

Mobair hy wolght 
( 1 ) Import of Mobalr yard ( In . 

stead of woollon yarn ) will 
bo allowod against cxporta 
of products falling under 
thts Serial Number and 
containing moro tban 50 % 
Mohair by weight. 


( 11 ) Othor . . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


20 % 


(a ) Wollon yam . 
(6 ) Polyester tops (20 % ) . 

Packing materials, vls., 
LDPB / Polypropyleno, 
kraft paper (10 % ). 


Worsted yarn , woollen fabrics and made 

up articles, including obroldered, coo 
talning 50 % or less but not less than 
20 % wool Mohair by woight other 
than those covorod by SI, No. K . 13 (1 )] 


( ) Worsted yarn /ſabrlas /made up art - 15 % 

cle , including ombroidered . 


(u ) Same As Againat SI, No. 

K .2 (1). 


( ) Import of Mobal tops 

however will be allowed 
Against exports of pro 
ducts falllog vodorthlu 
Sorial Numbor and con 
talding 50 % or loss but not 
less than 20 % . Mobair br 
woight, 


( 11 ) Oiboru 


15 % 


(a ) Sano us agalost SL No. 

K . 2 ( 1 ), 


(1) Import of Mohalr yuro ( lo 

stond of woollon yaro ) wl}] 
be allowod agajast oxports 
of products falling under 
thin Serial Number and 
oontalping 30 % or lows but 
not loss than 20 % Mobals 
hy wulghi. 


Shoudy /woollon blankets , blankotios cloth , 30 % 

Arvou / toler made of blanketing cloth . 
twoods, blazos and valodni , cootalolox 
more than 50 % wool by volume, 


( a ) Syolbetic wrato ( 40 % ) 
( 0) Wool Westo . 

Packlog matrlala, vs. 
LDPB , Polypropylene , 
kraft paper ( 30 % ) . 


(O ) Nambas aod Rug contulplog moro 

than 30 % wool by wolght. 


15 % 


(a ) Wool wuto , 
a) Packlog materiał. 

LDPB (10 % ) . 


ve.. 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - - - -- - - -- 


272 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - SEC . 1] 


M 


- 


- 


- 


- = 


= 


- 


APPENDIX 17 - Comid . 


- 


- - - - 


--- 


2 


v 


- L 


MUL . 


IL. WOOLLEN TEXTILES - Concld . 

( 0 ) Woollon Carpets, Druggets and Durrles 10 % 

containingmore than 50 % wool by wateht. 


(a ) Sodlum Hydrowulpbite 

(10 % . 
(0 ) Polyethylco . wouldior 

powder , 
(c ) Wool Waste. 
( a ) Packing material vie ., 

LDPB . 


K .6 


Crowol Embroidery tabria and mado- ap 

articles 


3 % 


( 1 ) Import of zip fastenco will 

be allowed against exports 
of band bags mado of 
arowol ombroidery fabrica 


ILL. NATURAL SILK TEXTILES 


K . 7 


30 % 


(1) Thread, yarn , fabrics and made -up 

Articles containing 100 % natural silk 
by weight. 


(a ) Raw Silk . 

(1 ) Import of Tussar raw silk 
(b ) Silk worm soods, silk will be allowed against the 
spun yarn and noll yarn . 

Import replenishment Licen 
Chemicals permitted aga ce for a value dot oxcooding 
inst Sl. No. K . 1 excluding 3 % of the value of the 
paraffin wax ( 10 % ) . 

licenco . githin tho valu . 
Liolagood loterilaing marmarkort for the import 
materials of width not of raw silk 
cxcoeding 871 cms, exclu - (2 ) Import of item ( d ) ID Col 
ding nylon taffeta coated amo- 4 will be allowed only 
(a brios . 

agalast ozport of Tion 


20 % 


( a ) Same as against Si, No 

K . 7 (i). 


(lt ) Thread, yarn , fabrics and made - up 

Articles, including crubroidered con 
talning more than 50 % natural silk 
by woight. 


( 1) Same as Remark ( 1 ) against 

Sl. No. K . 701). 
(2 ) Same as Romark (2 ) againyt 

SI, No. K .7 (1). 


10 % 


( a ) Samo u 

K . ( ) . 


galdnt 1 No 


(II) Thread, yarn , fabrta and Dado - up 

articla , tocluding embroldorad coptain 
ing long thar 50 % but not low tax 
20 % utani li hy volgt 


(1 ) Some a Romark (1 ) paint ! 

Si No K . T ( ) . 
Send u1 Romark ( 7 ) * * 1 . 
$ ! No 1 ( 1) 


K8 


Silk Curpees 
( ) Copainox invites Ju % onturul sum 

by velgbi. 


0 % 


( 1 ) Containiny 80 % or lou bot not lou 

bao 20 % natural lk by veight 


2 


% 


| (a ) Spub uk yan . 
( 6 ) Chomucals pemilicd spaloi 
Sl. No . K . 1 cxcluding Para 
On Wax ( $ 


V 


CELLULOSIC TEXTILES 

Fabrics and mado- op articles including on 

broidorod and yaro 14 


(1) mado of vlcon /polyposic / cupronianlar 

6brea /yap . 


10 % 


(a ) Samo at Against Sl. No 

K , 1, 41cluding parabo way 


(1 ) Impurt of PVC Soquio . 

Glasg Beads, Spangler and 
Plastic Pearls will bo allow 
K upto 5 % of the folo 
value of the Hococo within 
the value of the llomic 
Againat oxport of embrol 
derad fabrics and embrol 
Jcred cado -un astilla 


(11 ) mado of otboy cellulosic Abrow /yors , 


10 % 


6 .10 


( u ) Samo against Sl. No . ( 1 ) Şamo as Reoriark ( 1 ) against 

K . 1 oxcluding paraffin wax SI. No , K . ( 1) 
( a ) Sulphur 
(6) Zloc (13 % ). 


6 . 10 


Rayon (yro yam /cordfabrio 


10 % 


V . NON -CÉLLULOSIC TEXTILES 
4 .11 Fabria and made-up artida , Including on 

broldared and yup - - 


(1) made of acryllc ibro 


10 % 


( a ) Samu 11 « galost Sl. No . 

r 1 vcluding pin A v . 
(o ) Sam . -* & galas Sl. No . 

E , 1 ozcladiog pareja vu , 


(11) made of other mouvollalonin dhrogas . 


10 % 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


( ANTI - U * 1) 


भारत का राजपन्न . प्रसाधारण 


273 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 17 - - Cunid . 
- - - - - - - - 

- - - -- - - - - - 
2 

— — - - - - - - - 
V . NON -CELLULOSIC TEXTILES-- Concld . 
( NH ) made of DOD -cellulosic filament yard . 10 % ( a ) Samç as against Si, No. 

K .1 excluding paraffin wax, 
( Iv) pon - cellulosic quilted fabrlos and qull- 10 % (a ) Samo e Against $ 1. No. 
tod blankets. 

K . 1 . excluding paraffio wax . 
(1 ) Carpets/ blankets /namdhas/ drugget 

30 % 

( a ) Synthetic Waste . 
mado of 100 % gyothetic fibre/yard . 

( 6 ) Packing materials , piz ., 

LDPE , Polypropyleno, 

Kraft papor (30 % ). 
2 Nyloo tyto yaro /cord /tahna , , 60 % (a) Caprolactum , 


MIXED /BLENDED TEXTILES 

Mixed / blended yarn , fabrics , and made- up 

articles, Including embroidered - 
(1 ) pada from combination of tyo or 10 % 

more of any fibros 
( 11) made from . combination of tro or 10 % 

more of yothotic vamont yarp 
(III ) mado from combination of any 10 % 

blament yaro and fibre . 
( tv ) not lovbero specified . 10 % 


(0 ) Same as against și, No . 

K .1 oxcluding parafip wax. 
(a ) Samo as Against Sl. No . 

K . 1 excluding parafid was, 
( a ) Same as against Sl. No . 

K . 1 exclduing peraffto wax . 
(0 ) Samo os agalost Sl. No . 

KI Oxcluding parafilo was , 


(0 ) Samo u apalot Sl. No 


( v ) Syothatto U /Naadbal / druggets / 30 % 

carpets containing more than 

50 % Synthetic content 
L . CINEMATOGRAPH FILMS (EXPOSED ) 


GENERAL NOTES - 
(1 ) Video taped film . ar . 

coverod by the respective 
Serial Number lo thu 
Group . Import of blank 
vidco cassetta (25 % ) will 
be allowed withio the over 
all value of the licenco 
ngalost export of video 
i pod Alms. 


L . ) 


Cloematograpbilms, exposed 

films) . 


(costure 


10 % 


(a ) Cinematograph film , not (1 ) The replenishment perçon 

exposed , colour (all types). tage shown in column 3 
16 and 35 mm sound mag will be 40 % if royalty / 
netic tapes (11 % ). 

distribution or other simj. 
1 /4 sound magnetic tapos lar charges aro shown sepa . 
( 1 % ). 

rately in the export docu 
Sprocketod magnotic tapes ments and are not included 
(5 % ). 

in the fo. b . value of 
Blank vidoo cassetto exports . 
(5 % ) . 


L2 


Ducumonlarla od Advertigiay 

azpored - black apd white . 


ilmi, 


20 % 


( 0 ) Samo sa itons ( a ) 10 ( e ) ( 1) Import of ( a ) & (6 ) is 
Agaldet S ), No , L . I . 

Col. 4 will be allowod only 
of the sizos of films actually 
exportod . However , the 
restriction wit oot apply in 
tho caso of import of 
permissible negativo a 
itock . 


Docoincntaria ADO 

41posed - colour 


Advonlinn Ama, 


30 % 


) 


i ( 0 ) Samo au items (0 ) 10 

against Sl. No . L . . 


(c ) 


(1 ) Impon of (0 ) and ( b ) in 

Col. 4 will be allowed only 
of tho lzog of Alms actually 
axportad . However , thL 
restriction will not apply to 
the case of import of per 
alalble negative ray stock , 


Now : Alm . und TV. Filmi (both black 

and white and colour ). 


J0 % 


fiol Novi Photos 


25 % 


( a ) Photographic Almo inclu 

dlog photographlo proting 
popor (colour). 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - -- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


274 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART ] — Sec . 1 ] 


S 


GH 


- - - 


APPENDIX 


d . 


mem 


M . COIR PRODUCTS 
M .1.2 Colr Producto 


. 


. 


. 


. 


10 % 


(a) Dyes to Appendix 3 ( 5 % ). (1) Addidopal Import reple 
(6 ) Sulphur ( 10 % . 

alshment at 15 % of tho 
Packing Materlals , .. f. o . b , value of exports will 
LDPB , Polypropylena 

be provided for import of 
Sisal fibre acainst export of 
mati and mattiny of oux 
turo of ool yard and sisal, 


M . 1 . 3 


Rubberiood Coir prodocta 


. 


30 % 


Sulphur . 
(6 ) Packing 

LDPE . 


materials , 


( 1 ) Coir products with rubber 

backlog will also qualify 
for RBP under tbl vertel 
qumbar , 


M . NATURAL FIBRE PRODUCTS 


3. 


Rome, Furnes and constage of ou r 


Ropes , Twinos ind oordage of 


l/mantha 


43 % 


ta ) Stal Abro / vanto . 
(0 ) Manila Abro kov/ vieta 


N2 


Mat nod martings of alom 


. 


. 


. 


0 % 


(m) Slani abro. 


O . READYMADE GARMENTS , HOSIERY & 

KNITWEAR 


GHNERAL NOTE : 1 


( 1 ) Tho rospoctivo sorial aum 

bers in this group would 
covor ombroldarod garn 
pooota , boglary and knit 
war alto . 


( 2 ) Applications for import 

llooncos shall be accompanied 
by a test report issued by 
the Textilo Comaittocl Cug 
toms (or Central Silk Board 
in tho case of Natural Suk 
garments , hoslery and knit 
woar ), and Development 
Commissioner for Handi 
crafts, wherever necessary 
lo addition to other pros 
cribed documonts . ( Such corti 
Alcato will not be roquirod in 
rospoct of (1) export of Cotton 
garments and hosiery and 
(1 ) salos to forolgo tourista .) 
la tho caso of sales to foreign 
tourists, the application for 
RBP licence should be acc 
ompaniod by & doclaration 
of the applicant as to the 
contents of Abro / yard usod lo 

the productosportod . 
( 3) In tho cayo or Tumming 

uod embellishments , import 
of the group of liomsCovered 

by ouch of tbe following 
ito 1 
( ) Snap Pantenori and ZIP 

Pastoner (locluding 
zlp in colls and iu 
compopot ) ; 


(W ) Poart hoadod play - 

Itapllog plos / industrial 

Stapling machines and 
( III) Tay guns/ Tag Guo 

Nerdlus , 


VVEL 


भारत का गजपत्र : अमाधारण 


275 


[HTI- T 1] 
= - = = - - - - - 


APPENDIX 17 - - Conid . 


- - - 


- - - 


2 


- 


- 


- 


0 . READYMADE GARMENTS , HOSIERY & KNITWEAR - Conid . 


shall not o cood 3 % of the 
value of the licence subject 
to a maxmum of Rs. 
50 .000 . Withio this value , 
import of Judustrial Stap 
ling Machines 4 in numbers 
or for Rs. 10 , 000 which 
over is loss and Tag Guns 
for Rs. 2 , 000 will bo 
allowed . For other items, 
the import shall not 
oxceed Rs. 1 lakh per item 
within the ovorall value 
of the licence . 


( 0) Import of 4 dummies not 

oxcooding 23 % of the value 
of the licence will be 
allowed against cacb REP 
liccoce issued against quar 
terly entitlement od cxports 
covered by this product 
group. Requests for Import 
of more than 4 dummics 
will be considered by the 
CCI& E , on merits , on the 
recommendation of Totilo 
Commissioner, 


Q .1 


, 


Cotton ready-made garments, hosiery and 

koltvcar . 


134 


(a) Trimmings and cobellisb. 

mants, the following 1 
(1) Blagtlo cloth lo running 

leogth Including elastic 
cloth to tubular form 
with width not excoodlog 

9 . 5 cm . 
( ) Bucklas ,hook , and barn, 


( II ) Collar uys /collar pat 

lin /butery/ houlder 
puds und arbetar 

ents olar . 
(lv) Lace of not more than 

7 . 9 cm width ( 10 % ) 


(1 ) Papor Patterns /Plastic 

Patterns . 
( vi) Llalag and lotor - lining 

materials of width not 
exceeding 871 cros , exclu . 
ding nylon taffeta coated 

fabrles (10 % ). 
(vi ) Sowing thread including 

all types of ombroidery 
brcado made from man 
made tbra , por IJE 
end /or mixod Abram of 
cotton 40d 040 -mado 

Abra . 
( vlll ) Polyestor battona blanks 

Polyester buttons/Poari 
button / Plastlo buttons / 
Chalk buttons /Horn 

bottoms /Metal Buttons. 
( 6 ) Paarl headed plas ) 

stapling plos dod Indus 

erlal ta plhag macbloo . 
( 1 ) Labels locluding woven , 

printod stickon , stono 
stickers , self-adhealvon 
and motal laboli . 


276 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I - SEÇ. 1] 


APPENDIX 17.- Contd . 


2 


- - 


- 


O . READYMADE GARMENTS , HOSIERY & KNITWEAR - conid . 


(x/) Studs 
( x /l) Tags / Tag gups / Tag 

gun needles 
(XII) Snap and Zip 

F4steners , 
( xlv) PVC lcatber cloth 

( 1 % ). 
( xv ) Elastic tape and wobbing 

(Including hoat resisting 
rubbor (Apo /thread ) 

(77 % 
(IV1 ) Vapopriot Tunafer 

paport . 
(Ivll) Thermoplastic trasfor 

papon . 
(TYUI ) Fusiblo embroidery 

motifs or print . 
( x1x ) Metallic Yaro ( Lurex 

Yarn ) (5 % ) 
( xx) Artificial Leather cloth and 

Rexin and Artificial Fur 

cloth (3 % ) 
(0 ) Chemical and other pro 

couslog materiale , de fol 
loving - 
( 1) Titanium Diorld , 

(Rote gredo) ( 1079 . 
( 11 ) Naphtbenk acid . 
(II ) Silicone Emulsions. 
(tv ) Cellulose acotato Alm . 

with ono side matte 
furfaco nod by scroon 
printon of textile for 

icroep naklog. 
(v ) Sodlom Hydrosuplita 

( 21 % 
(v1) Bronzo powdor (5 % ). 
( oll ) Paraffin Wax (10 % . 


Woollen ready -mado garments , hosiery and 

koltwear contalaing more than 50 % 
vool by weight. 


( c ) Packing materials , namely , 

Polyethylene Moulding 
Powdor /Printed Polypropy 
leno Bags and Polypropy 

lono. 
20 % ( o ) Trimrologs and onbellisb- ( 1 ) Tho export product 11 

ments as allowed against Column 2 covers worste 
SI. No . 0 . 1. 

woollen and shoddy items 
Packing materials as allow . Import of Raw wool /Mohalı 
ed agalast Sl. No . 0 . 1. tops and woollen yard / 
Raw wool /Mobalr tops and Mohair yarn will be allowod 

woollon yam /Mohair yarn , only against exports of 
( d ) Flao Animal Hair, 

hosiery and kaltwear falling 
) Synthetic vaste / coolwasto . under this serial number . 

( 2 ) Import of fino Animal balr 

will be allowed only wboro 
this Item bas bcon used in 
the product exported , and 
additional 5 % Import rep 
legshment will also be 
provided for Import of this 

Tem . 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


( WIT - UT 1 ) 


भारत का गजपन्न . असाधारण 


277 


APPENDIX 17 - Conid . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


O . READYMADE GARMENTS , HOSIERY & KNITWEAR - concld . 


( 3 ) Import of syntbotlo wasto / 

wool wasto will be allowed 
only against exports of 
over coats and other ready 
made garmonts made from 
poollen blankoting cloth . 
Additional Import replo 
olshment at 8 % of r. o . b . 
value of exports will also 
bo allowed for import of 
synthetic waste /wool waste 
against exports of over 
coats and other readymado 
garments made from wool 
Ion blanketing cloth . 


0 .3 


15 % 


Woollon rady-mado garmonta , hoglory and 

koltwoar contalolag 30 % or loss but not 
low lbao 20 % of wool by volght , 


( a ) Itomi ( a ) 10 (d ) Alloved 

ugalogt SI. No. 0 . 2 . 


(1 ) The export product In 

Column 2 covers worsted 
voollon and shoddy Iteras . 
Import of Rawrool /Mobair 
tops and woollen yarn will 
bo allowed only agalost 
cxports of hoslory add kolt 
woar falling under this 

serial number . 
( 2 ) Import of fino Animal hals 

will bo allowed only whero 
this Itom bas been used in 
the product exported , and 
additional 10 % import rep 
lonishment will also bo 
provided for import of this 
Item . 


0 . 4 


15 % 


(1) Natural tik roady-mado garmonta, 

hosiery and knitwear containing moro 
than 50 % of natural silk by weight . 


Raw silk . 
Trimmings and embellish 
ments as allowed against 

Sl. No. 0 . 1 . 
( c ) Chemicals as allowed aga 

Inst Sl. No . 0 . 1. 
Packing materials as allov 

ed against Sl. No . 0 . 1 , 
( a ) Items ( a ) to ( d ) as alloved 

Against şi. No. 0 . 4 ( 1) . 


( 1 ) Import of Tussat raw silk 

will be allowed against 
the import replenishment 
licence for a value not 
oxcooding 5 % of the value 
of the licenco , within the 
valuo carmarked for the 

Import of rap silk 
( 1 ) Same as Remark ( 1 ) a galast 

ŞI. No. 0 . 4 (1). 


10 % 


(11) Natural olk ready -made garments , 

hostory and knitwear containing 50 % 
or loss but not less than 20 % of patural 
elk by weight. 


15 % 


(o ) Iterps (a ) to (c ) an allowed 

ugainst Sl. No . 0 . 1 . exclé 
dlog para fo Vax. 


Audy- made garments , hosiery tpd knit- 

woar made of rayon blamont yarp 
and /or rayon staplo ibro or from 

oombination thereof with cotton . 
Hostory and kaltwear made of nylon / 

polyostor /Acrylic /acetato Allamont nam , 

or apy combination theroof . 
Roady-made gardents made of - 

(1) Acetato fibro /yam 


13 % 


( a ) Itoms (a ) to (c ) as allowod 

against Sl. No. 0 . 1 . oxoluding 
paran war . 


15 % 


(H ) Synthetic fibre /yarp 


. 


. 


15 % 


13 2 


( UI) Mizod /hlended material contalaing 

synthetic Albre / yam moto than 50 % 
by weight. 


(0 ) Items (0) Co (c) as allowed 

agalost Sl. No . 0 . 1 oncluding 

paraffin war. 
(0 ) Items (a ) to (c ) as allopod 

against Sl. No . 0 . 1 excluding 

paratn mi. 
( a ) Items (a ) to (c ) as allowed 

against Sl. No. 0 . 1 ocluding 

parafim wax. 
(0 ) ( tom : ( a ) to ( c) as allowed (1 ) PVC leather cloth or arti 

against Sl. No. 0 . 1 oxcluding Acial fur clotb will be 
poraim 8L. 

allowed to be imported 
within the value of the 
REP Hoonce against oxports 
of products made tborcof. 


08 


Ready-mado garncnta , hosiery and költ - 

wear , not olsewhere specified . 


19 % 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . EXTRAORDINARY 


278 
- - - 


[PART I- Sec. 11 


APPENDIX 17 -- - onid 


- - - - 


- 


} 


2 


P. GEM AND JEWELLERY 


GENERAL NOTW 
(1 ) Necklapa strung or threa 

dod with cut and polished 
precious /wcml-precious sto 
ocs / polished and procouod 
pearls will also fall under 
repootivo entries below and 
replenishment allowod noco 
rdingly provided the 
naluo of metal Orting 
Damely clip , clasps, pics, 
books otc . l. negligiblo and 
such valuo boxcluded . 
Export of Gem & Jowellery 
Itemna , oxocpt those covorod 
by Sl. No . P . 6 lo thu 
group to Rupeo payment 
Arad wip qualify for tho 
grant of Import roplentab 
mont Hooncer valid for 
Imports only from the 
Rupee Payment Area , 


(3 ) Lo roepoot of exports of 

product falllog ondor SI, 
No . P 6 . 1, P .6 .4 and PP , 
In this group , import licenoo 
may, on request, bo mad . 
valld for Import of glas , 
chatons (stock lots ). But 
In such case , the import 
roplonishment will stond 
roduced from 331 % tn 

30 % 
(4 ) RAP Hccacos louod against 

oxport of product covered 
by 81. No , P . 2 . 1 to P .2 .6 
under this Product Group 
will be valid for Import of 
(0 ) Special Industrial adho 
alves / gums/solution , usod 
in Gom and Jewellery 
Industry ind ( 11) Synthetic 
diamond powder for a total 
value upto ono per coot of 
the licence value subject to 
u maximum of R , one lakh 
within the overall value of 
the licence . 


P.1 


Polished (processed Pearls (Roal of 


35 % 


( ) Real or cultured Pearle 


ed 


Pearl 


unset/undrillod . 


P . 2 . 1 


Cuta od Dollabod Diamondo 


63 % 


(a ) Dla mondo uncia od uocat. ( 1) lp caso of oxports of one 

a od poligbod diamond 
phero the minimum per 
carat roliga top la por lose 
than Rs 1, 500, the reple 
oighidont will be as lodi. 
cated against $ 1, No8, P . 2 . 3 , 
P .2 . 4 , P .25 aod P . 2 . 6 
dopood log on the volue 
rongation , 


837 


P .2 . 2 
2.2 . 3 


Cot and polished Diamonds 
Cul and pollshod Diamondo . 


- 
, 


(a) Diamonds unsch and ancut. 
( a ) Diamonds unset god uncut 


(1 ) The minimum per card 

roalisation should be not 
loss than Rs. 1 , 300 . 


P . 2 . 


Cut and poliobod Dio nwod . 


, 


, 


3 % 


( a ) Dis mondo un copiluncui, 


1 ) The Olomuco por cara i 

coa lisa top sbould by not 
loss than Rs. 2 , 000 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


[ HTHT I - 4 


1] 


भारत का राजपक्ष असाधारण 


279 


10 


APPENDIX - 17 – Conid . 


P . GEM AND JEWELLERY - Coatd . 


(2 ) Import roplonisbonent at 

78 % of f.ö .b . value of 
exports will be admissible 
on oxports of cut and 
polished diamonds for 
Import of diamonds unget 
and uncut of sawo variety 
provided - 


(l ) The exporter has do 

clared in the customs 
attestod invoice that 
cut and polished dia 
monds exported and 
covered by the involce 
were actually manufac 
tured out of imported 
diamonds unget and 

uncut of sawo variety . 
(tt) The mjalmum per carat 

realisation is not logu 
than Rs 2 ,500 /- . 


02 


Catand collabod Diamond . 


. 


. 


80 %802 


( a ) Diamondo antind uncut, (1 ) Tao walinum pet carat 
(a ) Dla mondo annat 

roalisation sbould be not 
lesở thu Ru 3 . 000 . 


( 2 ) Import replenishment At 

83 % of f. o .b . value of 
exports will be admissible 
oo exports of cut and 
polished dlanionds for im 
port of diamonds upset and 
uncut of sawa variety pro 
vided - 


(1) The exporter bag de 

clared ip the customs 
attested loyolce that 
cut and polished dia 
monds exported and 
covered by the lavolco 
were actually manu 
factured out of impor 
tod diamonds unset 
And uncut of SAWO 
vadlety . 


( 11 ) Tho minimum per 

carat realisation is not 
108s than Rs. 3 ,500 . 


P . 2 . 6 


Cut and polished Diamond : . 


. 


. 


87% 


(a) Diamonds undot and uncul. (1) The size of onch diamond 

exported should ho . 3 of a 
cAr& 1 and abovo with a 
minimum per carat roali 
sa ton of Dot love than 
Ro. 3, 500 per cara 


P .3 .1 


Cut and polished Bmeralds /Rablon /Sappbi- 

rod , or Rs. 3, 000 aod above percoratfo .h . 


807 


(a ) Bioerald , ancat and andet. 
(0 ) Rubles wout and set. 
( c ) Sapphirca uncot and unge i. 


P.3.2 


65 


Cut and polisbed precious stonos/ semi- 

precious stonos not Loved by St No. 
P31, 


( 0 ) Prodlout or reml- proclous ( 1) ID respoct of exports of 

stonen , unget and uncut seml- procious stones, tho 
(0 ) Coral unpropared , or coral rate of replenishmeat wll 

sticks got cut to adv xbapo bo 67 % instond of 65% 
or sizc against export of (2 ) In respect of exports of 
cut and polished coral. 

semi- procious stonos from 
(c ) Rough semi- procious stonestumbled / broken / sliced/ da 

In tumblod /broken /sticod / magcd rough somni- precious 
damagod form . 

9tones, the roplenishment will 
he 60 % lostood of 65 % . 


280 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDNARY 


[ PART 1 - SEC . 1] 


APPENDIX 17.- -Conra . 
- - - - - - - - - - 

2 
- - - 
P . GEM AND JEWELLERY - Consd . 
P . 3.3 Cut Rod podshed onyx . 

50 % ( a ) Suced ooyi , 
P . 4 

Jewellery containiog gold , silver , pla tlouro 63 % ( a ) Diamonds, uncut and unsol (1 ) Hapuri o vow Jewollery 
or palladium and studded /strong with 

will be subject to such 
dla moods, precious or semi- procloug 

( b ) Precious or semi-precious rostrictions as may be im 
stonos roal or cultured poarls synthetic 

A todos, unsol and uncut posed by Gold Copto ) 
imitation stone providor the value of 

Administration and by the 
gyntbotic /imitation sto Dos does not 

( c ) Real or cultured parls , Rose rve Bank of India . 
oxceed 10 % of the 1. 0 .6 . value of lowol 

undcl/uodrillo . 

2 ) Studded / trung jewellory 
Lery cxcluiting the value of metal, 

containing synthetic OL 
Imitation stones exccoding 
10 % of the value of jewel 
Icry excluding the value of 
metal in addition to the 
Olds , proctow O KO 
Diocloue Once and /or 
powrhy Aro occluded frono 
the xoops of this iton , 


( 3 ) Procious metal Jowellery at 

described under Col. 2 wli ! 
bo covered udler Sl. No . 
P . 4 provided the valuo of 
procious motal l.e., gold , 
Bilvor, platinum or palla 
dium is vor loss than 70 % 
of tett value of avotal used 
thorein or studded jewel 
Sery conta din lo wbolo or 
lo part, artal other thao 
gold , silver, platinum of 
palladium and studded / 
strung with diamonds , 
poarls, proclous / semi 
precious gumou will also be 
grouped wodor SI, No. P . 4 
for the purposes of Import 
ropiendabowot, provided 
the value of the studding / 
stringing amount to 9 % 
or abovo o , the total f. 0 . 6 . 

value , 
( 4) For tho purpose of dotor. 

miplay the f.. . b , valuo , tbc 
value of mua 83 DOWD 10 
the cur attestod luvolos 
will be excludod , Slaularly 
makdag ch ger in exces of 
25 % of the value of jewel. 
Jory Oxcluding the valuo of 
motal will also be excluded , 


( 3 ) Roplopisbrest of Jia . 

monds , un ut and OSCE 
precious #ol-precious 
stones, uncot and ungot 
real or cultured pearls 
unset /undrilled ball bo 
allowed in projxoruon LO 
the fo .b . value conlen af 
diamonds, uncut and wisel ; 
precious or somi- precious 
stones , unsel und uocuri 
And roal or cultured perri 
unsot/ ugdrilled . ( espoo 
tively usod 4s contaloca in 
the cxported product, as 
declared by the exporter 
sad duly attested by tho 
customip tho lovoice . No 
interchangeabllity of the 
aforesald studding mate 
rials inter - se shall ho 
allowed . 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


[AUT - U11] 


भारत का राजपत्र : प्रसाधारण 


281 


APPENDIALOnna . 


- 


ī 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


P . GEM AND JEWELLERY - Cond 
P5. 1 

Cutor polishec y euc yona s 


30 % 


( 0 ) ROUND wyptbaho 40DEMA 


ll Production of womg 

ested invoices in got 
required for claiming rep 

lobishment, 
( 2 ) Import of Cubic Zirconia 

will not be permittod updor 
rough Syathetic stones 
against this Şerial Number 


P .6 
P .51 


331 % 


Imita ton /Costume Jewellery I 
Imitation Jewellery /Costume Jewellery 

studded or strung with synthetic /imi. 
tation stodos /plantic beads , woude beads , 
gluss beads , false pearls , glass chutong 
14 . 


( a ) Glass kudu, txeP V , oly jewellery Llavou 
aod glass chatons 

teful# other thau precious 
(6 ) Rough synthetic sto pos . 

Iliotals referred to 10 SI. 
( c ) Mcial fittings , findings, No. P . 4 will be covered by 

components and uccesso this entry. In other words , 
ries required for sira top oply jewellery mødt of 
jewellery 

base metal liko aluminium 
copper, brass , etc . and 
studded /ating with synthe 

/ imultation stones / plastic 
bedd W dor beads, etc . 
would fall under the 
S . No , Baso metal Imita . 
# ion jowellery studded / 
Birk with semi- procions 
Toy will also fall under 

this Sl. No . 
( Production of Custom 

itthegled invoices 18 00 

equiţeri wbile claiming 

replenishment. 
( 3 ) Cuff Lioks (including braso 

Cuff Links) gtudded with 
gyotbctic /imitation stones 
dooolated Cuff Links and 
gold plated Cuff Lipks will 

also fall uodor this Sl. No. 
( 4) Import of Cubic zirconia 

will not be permitted under 
rough gynthetic stopa 

against this SorialNumber , 
( a ) Molal fittings, flodings, (1 ) Jhumka, ringe , finger ringe, 

componcnts uod acce990 belts, neckluces, gbungroos 
nes required for imitation etc . made of basc metala 
jewellery . 

such as 3luminium and 
" Gillet" , willalso fall under 
this Si, No. Bragg Cuff 
Lioka othør than thoso 
covered by S . No. P .6 , 1 , 
will also fall under this 

Sl. No. 
( 2 ) Production of Custom 

attested invoices is oot 
required while claiming rop 
lenishment. 


P62 


10 % 


Imitation Jewellery /Custuro Jewellery Plato 
(other than those specified under Sl. No 
P . 6 . 1 ). 


P .6 . 3 


10 % 
331 % 


P .6 , 4 


Silver Flugroc and Silver Filigree Jowellery 
Jowellery made of gold , sllver, platipun or 
palladium and studded with yothotic / 
imitation glass , stones , chutoos , boads. 
falso pearls, etc . with or without dia . 
monds, precious stoday, xml- precious 
atorg , real/cultured pearls . 


(a) Metal fittinga , 
( a ) Glage beads, feise poart 

and glass chatuns . 
(0 ) Rough synthetic stones, 


(1 ) The price of gold and silver / 

platinum and palladium 
will be excluded from the 
Inb, vəlus whlle calcula 

ting replooishment. 
(2 ) This Sorial No. will also 

cover alticles of gold or 
silve - god studded with 
synthetic /imitation glass 
stones, cbatons , boads , false 
poarls with or without 
diamonds, precious ston08 , 
soml- proclous stonos , real/ 
cultured pearls . 


- -- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


58 GI/ 85 - 19 . 


282 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I - Sec . 1] 


APPENDIX 17 - Concld . 


P . GEM AND JEWELLERY - - Concld . 


( 3 ) Tbc oxports ball be sub 

Joci to such restrictions as 
may be imposed by Gold 
ControlAdmlpistradodaod 
by the Rosorvo BADk of 
India . 


( 1) Import of Cubic Zirconia 

will not be pormitted andor 
rough gyothotio stonos 
against this Serial Number . 


PP , GEM AND JEWELLERY - SALES TO FOREIGN TOURISTS 
PP . 1 Procoased and pollabod Pearl. (roal or ) 

(0 ) Rough dle monde, uncut (1 ) The value of the bane 
culturod ). 

and unget, proclous or semi metal 4. 8 ., gold , sllvor , 
PP .2 Cunand polishod Diamondo . 

precious stonos , uncut and platoum and palladium 
PP . 3 Cutand pollshed proclous or somd-proolous 

unsel, Pearls roll or cul will be excluded in com 
stonos including Turquolio stond . 

( 50 % ) tured unget/undrilled , rough putetion of value of replo 
PP . Gold , Platioum , Palladium , Sllvor Jowel 

synthetio stoDee , otbor imi nisbmopt, Tho calo voy 
tory shudded with proclong or goml 

tation stono , 

chors should indicate the 
roclous stonos, diamonds, roal or cultured 

value of total separately . 
Poarlo . 

( 2 ) Tbo malo of gold jewellery 

will be subject to such 
foDoral or spoola ) rostrio 
tions as aro imposed by 
the Gold Control Admiral 
dation and by the Rosorv 
Baok of India , 


(3 ) 


( 


In the case of Jowellery > 

blob thero bao admit 
ture of dla mondo , proclous / 
teml- proolous stones and / 
or podrla with any othor 
varloty of glang , imitation 
or synthetio stonos, tho 
import roplodlhopi vil 
bo 331 % . 
Jewellery made of gold , 
pla doum , palladium or 
allvor and studdod or 

trung with glass bord , or 
syntheto Boot with or 
without diamonde, pro 
olon /xml- precious one 
or pearls vill be considered 
only for 331 % Import 
roplonlament, 
Import of Cublo Ziroonia 
VID not be permitted todas 
rou synthetic tonn 
acalut two Barlal Num 


bert . 


PP 5 


3317 


Imitation jewellery studded or trung vltb 

glass boadı , falso posrls, imitation and 
kynthotlo stonog 


( 6) Import of Pearls rol of 

outured , tundmad 
hall be allowed only upte 
25 of the nun of the 
Ilono badaout sport 
of prod hot pantoglo 

Col. . . 
( 0 ) G184 Doadı , false Darls , ( 1 ) Import of Cuble Zirconi, 
glans chatoni. 

will got to Pormlitod under 
Roagh ynthotlo stones 

rougb yothotic stonos 
against ** l tarlal Nom 

bar , 
(@ ) Rough synthetio stones. (1 ) Import of Cubic Zirconle 

will not be permitted under 
rough gynthotio utono 
golput this carlal Nurbu 


PP .6 


Cutand polished synthotlo stones 


. 


. 


25 % 


(471 ) 


भारत का रापपा : पसाधारण 


283 


APPENDIX 19 -- Concld . 


1 


Q . STAINLESS STEEL PRODUCTS 


GENERAL Nota 
( 1 ) In the case of producho 

covorod by this group , in 
addition to to proporibod 
dodomon , production of 
Bxport Inspection Agoncy 
Certifcato lodica tog 
quality and type of matorial 

wyod vlll also be a contary , 
( 1) Bxport of stainless steel 

watch cascs will also qualify 
for Import replonløbmeot 
under tbla si, Numbor . 


Q .1 


50 % 


Stgloloss stcol products containing stalnom 

stoel oontons of not let than 80 % by 
Woight, 


( a ) Stainless steel primc 

excluding melting wrap. 


20 % 


(a) Stalolou stoel molting scrap . 


Q . 2 

Stainless Steel Castings, AU types , 
9. MISCELLANEOUS EXPORT PRODUCTS 
$ 2 Vanaspat . . . 

. . 
9 .4 

Mlosplte insuladng materials bopded with 

synthetio resins . 


6 % 


S. 


Ponta go [ stamps wbether wacdfor vOrxd 


35 % 


(a ) Tio Plate . 
( a ) Synthetic rosios lo Apped - (1 ) Registering Authority is 
diz 3 . 

tho Bogleerling Export 

Promotion Council. 
(a) Postage sumps whether (1) Registering Authority lg 
wed or unused . 

the Chemicals and Allied 
Products Export Promo 
tion Council, Calcutta , 
Import roplonishment will 
be allowed only on pro 
duotion of bank cortificate 
apowing rocolpt of foreigo 
oxchango against exports lo 
addition to other prescribed 

documents . 
(0 ) Pagklog materiala vla (1 ) Reglatoring Authority to 
CRCA sbecta , 

the Prooossed Foods 
Export Promotion Council , 
Nov Dabi. 


9 . 8 


Anjmal/ Poultry Peod compound , Mango 

kernel oil and Sal teed oil, 


4 


284 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART I- Sậc . 1 ] 


- - 


I 


- 


ANNEXURE TO APPENDIX – 17 


Statement of Import. Replenishment admissible in caseg covered by General Note ( 1 ) In Colomn 5 under Product Group : A - Engineering 

Goods 


M12 -TUT RTL 


Sl. No . 


Export Product 


Import Replenishment 

porcentago 


NA 


A .1 


NII 


Nil 


14 % 


. 


. 


Nil 


7 % 


. 


. 


NII 


. 


A .7 


NH 


16 % 
Nil 


15 % 


A .21 


21 % 


A . 22 


(1) Carbon steel forgings . . . . . 

. . . . . . . 
( II ) Alloy Stool forgings. 
Steel Wire and products made of such wire : 
(a ) High Carbon Steel Wire and products thereof : 

(1) Galvanised /Electroplated /Copper coatod /Bronze coated . 

(11) Ungalvanised and uncoated 
(6 ) Stoel Wire Ropos em 

(1) Galvanised /electroplated , 

(1 ) Ungalvanised / clectroplated , 
(c ) Carbon stool wolded wire mesh . 
Other forrous manufacturos 

(1) Stoc ! Pipes and tubes . . . . . 

Steel Pipes and Tubes (Galvanisert ) . . 
(iv) High tensile Precision Industrial Fasteners . . . . . . . . . 

(v) Transmission Line Towers (Galvanised ) . 
Air -conditioning and Referigeration oquipment, Humidification , Ventilation and Air control equip 

ment and spare parts thoroof . . . . . . . . . 
Power cquirinci including altornators, coperators, transformers, switchgear and control gear, 
motora, rectifiors and power capacitors : 
( 1 ) Transloral " . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . 
pené Switchgear, controlcar, rectifiers , power capacitors and lightning arrestors , . 
(1) Aluminium Conductors stoel reinforced (ACSR ) . . . . . . 
Internal Combustion engines/ pumps and compressors, all types . . . 
(1) Industrialmachinery , compononts and spares thereof . . . 
(1) Railway Coaches and Wagons including Tram Cars , . 
Water Transport Equipment . . . . . . 
(1 ) Bicycley, all types (other then special models and sports light Roadster ), bicycle components 

And awodocios ; bicycle rickshaws and their components /accessories , all types 
(11 ) Bicycles specialmodels including Sports Light Roadster ( SLR Model ) . . 
Petroleum metering and dispensing pumps 

(1) Photographic Camera . . . . . 
Sowlog Hachines 
Measuring tapes, tape rules , all types . 
(11) Clocks and Time pleocs excluding digital clocks and Time plecos . 
Time Chalns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Other enginooring products not elsewhere specified . . . 


27 % 
8 % 
45 % 
131 % 


A .24 
A . 56 
A .64 
A . 75 
A .78 


9 % 


2 % 
Nil 


A .82 


as (other timeshaws arts Ligh 


15 % 


A .89 


Nil 


Nil 


A .93 
4 .94 
4 . 97 
A . 100 
A . 101 
A . 102 


21 % 
10 % 


5 % 


Nil 
21 % 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


(ANTI— 71) 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


285 


- 


-- - ---- -- - - 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


2 - - 


APPENDIX 18 

( Paras 268 and 283 of Chapter XXI) 
ALLOCATION OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE TO EXPORT HOUSES AND TRADING 

HOUSES FOR PROMOTIONAL ACTIVITIES 


Attention 14 invited to the provisiocx mad ise 
para 266 of Chapter XXI according to which an 
export house holding Export House Certificate may 
be allowed to utilise foreign exchange upto 2.5 % of 
the f.ob. value of its total exports in the previous 
year, for the following purposes , inter-alia : - - 

(# ) Foreigo Exu 17! ! car iditur : ww prom 

uvoal acu vou cibutive maturesul dor tot 
Code of Grants in Aid for export efforts . 

1 list of wlty Televulb uni promouon uti 
vities covered by the Code of Urunt in Aid 
I given in the Atura iu thu Appendix , 

and 
( b ) Imports of testing equipment and spares and 

machinory , duly picked from Indigenous 
angit and considers . lcatrai 1..1e ng ip 

COUTCA buncia natit 
2 (1). The above limit of 2 .5 % is in addition to the 
blanket foreign exchange facility separately available 
to export houses and large exporters from the Reserve 
Bank of India and it is subject to a maximum of 
Rs. 10 lakhs (Rs, 20 lakhs in the case of Export 
House whose exports of select products in the preced 
ing year were at least Rs. 5 crores in value f.ob.) and 
Export Houses whose exports of select products in 
the year before the preceding year were not loss 
than Rs. 2.0 crores (f.o .b .) in value and increased 
their exports during the preceding year by at lcast 
50 % over the level of the year before the preceding 
year. The amount excecding Rs, 10 lakhs /Rs. 20 
lakhs but within the overall 2 .5 % will be adjusted 
against the REP entitlements earned by the export 
house on its own exports, 

(2 ). For Trading Houses , the upper limit in 
sub - para ( 1 ) above will be Rs, 60 lakhs . Within 
this foreign exchange nilocation , the Craving House 
may also set up warebousce and offices abroad without 
obtaining prior approvl of the Resctvo Evnk of India . 
They should , however, send posl- facto intimation to 
the Resurve Bank of Indit, immediately # fter wetuing 
up the warehouses/ offices abroad . 

3. During the iconsing year the facility will be 
available on the basis of 2 .5 % of the exports made in 


the preceding year of all products, subject to the 
provision indicated in para 2 above . 

In the Export House/ Trading House Certificates 
issucd in the licensing year, the total value of exports 
of the expoit house /tiading house inade in the pre 
ceding y -ar wil be indicaled . This will enable them 
to avail of the provision made in this policy . In the 
case of tho e to wliom Export/ Trading House Certi 
ficates were issued in the preceding year and which 
are valid in the licensing year , the f.o .b . value 
of exports for the preceding year will be intimated 
by the regional licensing authorities , uncerned to the 
regional office concerned of the Reserve Eank of 
India , Based on the fo.b . value of crort thus 
inade available, the Reserve Bank of India will issue 
a Blankul Pass Book to each export house /trading 
house releasing the atocuit of foreign exchange for 
the purpose , equal to 2 .57 of the fo .b . value of 
exports subject to maximum of Rs. 10 lakhs or 
Rs. 20 lakhs or Ps. 60 lakhs , as the case may be . 
If au export house, trading boue wants to utilise for 
this purpose 21 gmount more than Rs, 10 Jakhs / 
Rs. 20 lakhs/ Rs 60 1941s , but within the overall en 
tilltınent of 2 . 57 of the foh yalue of its exports 
in the prựceding year hy crien:lcriog REP entitle 
monts on its own exports as indicated above, the ex 
port housc / trading house will approach the import 
licensing authority concerned with whom the REP 
entitlement is peading and surrunder thic REP entitle 
meni on its own cxports of the required amount. To 
the extent the REP catitlement is thus surrendered 
the licensing authority will intorm the Reserve Bank 
of India . On that basis, the Reserve Bank of India 
will release further amount of foreign exchange in 
the Pass Book referred to above. 

in ward Be ll uable the export uongo / 
ding house to remit foreign cxchange for tho 
purpuses referred to in sub -para 1 (x ) above through 
any authorised dealer in foreign exchange . The 
Qutiinsed dealer will debit the amount thus remittou 
J? PREDOK UQC , niuation th the Rescrve Bank 

bird 


NEID muuses krodiny donset Irtearline 0 
u tilise this foreign exchange allocation for import of 


286 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I- Sec , 1) 


H 


APPENDIX 18 Conid . 


the licensing authority in the sald Pass . Book under 
intimation to tho Roserve Bank of India . 


equipmonts etc . referred to to sub- paru 1 ( b ) abovo 
should approach tho DGTD ( E .P . Directorate ) giving 
full particulars of the goods sought to be importad , 
their c.i.l. value and the purposo / justification for 
import and the name of the licensing authority which 
has to issue the licence. The DGTD will send their 
recommendation direct to the said licensing authority . 
Based on that, the licensing authority will issuo import 
licenco . Tbo value of the conce will be debited by 


7 . The Pass Books issued in the licensing year may 
be made valid by the Reserve Bank of India for one 
year from the date of issue . After the Pass Book 
has been fully utilised , it should be surrendered to the 
Reserve Bank of India ( Exchange Control Depart 
ment ) for post scrutiny , if any, as decided by the 
Reserve Bank of India . 


( FTT 


1 


] 


भारत का राजपत : प्रसाधारण 


287 


- 


- - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


ANNEXURE TO APPENDIX 18 


EXPORT PROMOTION ACTIVITIES COVERED BY THE CODE OF GR 
AID OR MARKET DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE AND OTHER FACILITIES AND 
WHICH ARE RELEVANT FOR THE BLANK.CT FOREIGN EXCHANGE PERMIT 

SCHEMDE 


1. Sales or Sales -cum -study toams abroad . 


2. Publications for use abroad , including journals, 
brochures, pamphlets , folders etc , for bound publicity 
of products of the Export House . 


4 . Participation in exhibitions abroad , display of 
exhibits in show -rooms abroad . 

5. Settlement of amall value claims with foreign 
buyers. For this purpose, a small value claim mcaps 
a claim not exceeding ten per cent of the t.o.b . value 
of the transaction to which it pertains subject to 
maximum of Rs. 10 ,000 . 


3. Brand publicity projects through advertisements 
in news papers and periodicats abroad or through 
other useful media . Such projects , if not sponsored 
by an approved organisation under the code , should 
have prior approval of the Ministry of Commerce 
for assistance under the code. 


6 . Expenditure on stamp duty , court fees stamp, 
advocate fee, and other legal exponses incurred 
abroad , and also expensos on advertisement and 
publicity, calendars, diaries, souvenirs, catalogues and 
other sundry materials / gift articles . 


288 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


PART I - Sec . 1] 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDIX . 19 

( Chapter XVI) 
DUTY EXEMPTION SCHEME 


3. The Scheme will apply only to those export 
products in which there is a minimum value addition 
of 33 % from c.i.f. value of imports to fo. b . value of 
exports. Wherever it is considered necessary , Advance 
Licensing Committees may relax the condition 
regarding 33 % value addition . Similarly , Advance 
Licensing Committees may decline to consider cases 
where it is considered that the minimum value addition , 
though 33 % or above is not sufficient for the export 
products involved . 


Eligibility : 


4 ( 1) Registered exporters referred to in para 2 
above are eligible to apply for licences under this 
Scheme provided such exporters (1) hold valid export 
orders in their own names and ( ii ) are able to realise 
foreign exchange in their own names for the items pro 
posed to be exported . 


Scope : 

The three categories of licences covered by this 
Scheme are ( 1) Advance licence (2 ) Advance licence 
for supply of Intermediate Products and (3 ) Special 
Imprest licence . The basis and conditions on which 
these three categories of licences are issued under Duty 
Exemption Scheme are different and licences issued 
under one category cannot be mixed up with the other . 
Imports against a licence granted under this Scheme 
will be eligible for the bonefit of Customs duty exemp 
tion , as laid down . Applications for grant of advance 
licences with customs duty exemption for value less 
than Rs. 5 ,000 /- will not be entertained . A licence 
issued under this scheme to a manufacturer -exporter 
will be subject to Actual User conditions. Exempt 
matcrials imported by a merchant- exporter, when 
transferred to a supporting manufacturer specified 
below for production as prescribed in the scheme, will 
be subject to Actual User conditions. 

2 . The purpose and scope of the three categories 
of licences referred to above are as follows : 
(1) Advance licences are issued to registered 

exporters for import of exempt materials speci 
fied in Annexure I to the Department of 
Revenue Notification No. G . S . R . dated 
5 - 4 - 1982 (Annexure I to this Appendix ) and 
the resultant products have to be exported 
outside the country . 
Advance licences for supply of Intermediate 
products are issued to registered manufacturer 
exporters for the exempt materials listed in 
Annexure II to this Appendix with a tie - up 
arrangement and the resultant materials have 
either to be exported out of the country or 
these may be supplied to ( a ) another Advance 
Licence holder under the Intermediate Scheme 
who requires these intermediate products for 
the manufacturc of finished products (listed in 
Annexure II) to be exported out of the country , 
or (b ) to a unit located in a Free Trade Zone in 
India or a 100 % E . O . U . wbich requires these 
intermediate products for manufacture and 
export out of the country . 
Special Imprest licences are issued to regis 
tered cxporters for the deemed exports covered 
by para 190 (b ), (f) & (i) of this Policy for import 
of raw materials and components required for 
the manufacture of goods to be supplied to 
projects in India against contracts entered into 
with IBRD / IDA aided projects, projects finan . 
ced by multilateral and bilateral externalassis 
tance and ONGC /OIL /GAIL vide Deptt. of 
Revenue Notification in Annexure III to this 
Appepdix . 


(2 ) A registered manufacturer- exporter who is 
engaged in actual production and export during the 
preceding three financial years will be eligible to claim 
licences under this Scheme based on his average past 
export performiance during the preceding three financial 
years. This facility may also be extended to Export/ 
Trading Houses. 

(3) Applications for licences under this Scheme 
from the same registered exporter against specific 
export orders may be entertained even though the 
export obligation against earlier licences under this 
scheme may be outstanding so long as the exporter 
has not been declared defaulter in respect ofany pre 
vious export obligation . 

(4 ) The condition relating to realisation of foreign 
exchange stated in sub -para (1) above will not, how 
ever , apply to applicants for (i) the Advance licenco 
under Intermediate Scheme for supplies made within 
India and ( ii ) Special Impreset licences for supplies to 
ONGC /Oil India Ltd ./GAIL . 


( 3 ) 


(5 ) It is clarified that the exports on behalf of 
others or on account of others or third party exports 
are not admissible under this Scheme. There is no 
objection , however , to the export documents men 
tioning the name of the manufacturer to indicate the 
origin of the products , if required , but under no cir 
cumstances these exports would be considered or 
accepted as the exports effected by the manufacturer. 


Itoms pormissible : 

5. Items listed in Annexure I to Department of 
Revenue Notification in Annexure I to this Appendix are 
eligible for import under an Advance licence . Raw 


[ TTT - -- 


1 ] 


भारत का राजपा : मसाधारण 


289 


1 


UH 


1 


H 


. 


APPENDLX 19 – Contd . 


under this Scheme may be issued as per the decisions 
of these Committees with regard to quantities/ 
values/items. The Committees may allow represen 
tative /s of the applicants to appear before them on a 
specific request made for this purpose in writing . 


materials and components required for the manu 
facture of the goods to be supplied to the specified 
projects /ONGC /OIL /GAIL are eligible to be imported 
under a Special Imprest licence. However, items 
figuring in Appendix 2 - Part A of this Policy and 
consumer goods will not be allowed . Items of sparcs 
and consumables may be allowed to these categories 
without duty exemption benefits . For Advance 
licences for manufacture of Intermediate products 
only items listed in Annexure II to this Appendix are 
allowed for imports. 


the st. Advance Licen (CLA), NECCI& E,Mai (2) 


10 . Advance Licensing Committees will function 
in the offices of (1 ) the CCI & E , New Delhi, (2 ) the 
Jt. CCI& E , Calcutta , (3 ) the Jt. CCI& E , Madras and 
(4 ) the Jt. CCI& E , ( CLA ), New Delhi. Formation 
of an Advance Licensing Committee in the office of 
the Jt. CCI& E , Bombay , will be considered on opening 
of an office of DGTD in that place . Till then applica 
tions will continue to be placed before the Hors. 
Advanco Licensing Committee in the office of the 
CCI & E , New Delhi. 


Şubmission of Application : 


11. The jurisdiction of the Regional Advance 
Licensing Committees is given in Annexure IV to 
this Scheme. 


6 . Applications for issue of liccices under this 
Scheme should be preferred in quadruplicate in the 
form given in Appendix XVI- A of the Hand Book . A 
copy each along with the full set of documents is to be 
forwarded to the ( 1) Director (Drawback ), Depart 
ment of Revenue, Ministry of Finance , Jeevan Deep 
Bldg., Sansand Marg , New Delhi, (2 ) D . G . T .D ., 
Udyog Bhavan , New Delhi or DC (SSI), New Delhi 
or Textile Commissioner, Bombay, as the case may 
be, ( 3) Concerned licensing authority in accordance 
with the jurisdiction indicated in Appendix II- B of the 
Hand Book and (4 ) Regional Licensing Authority 
indicated in Aunexure IV to this Scheme. In the 
case of applications for licences under this Schome 
which are beyond the jurisdiction of the regional 
licensing authorities as stated in para 12 below , a copy 
of the application is to be scat to the office of the 
CCI& E , (EP - II Section ), New Delhi, instead of to the 
Regional licensing authority concerned . 


12 . The Regional Advance Licensing Committees 
will consider applications for licences under the three 
categories of Duty Exemption Scheme enumerated 
above in the following types of cases - - 


( 1) Where the application is for a CIF value 

of Rs. 25 lakhs or below but no input- output 
normshave been fixed for the export products 
carlier either in (i) individual cases or (i ) 
Annexure V to this Appendix . 


Where the application is for a CIF value of 
Rs. ono crore or below but input-output 
norms have been fixed for the export products 
either in (i) individual cases or ( ii ) Annexure 
V to this Appendix . 


7. Where input-output norms have already been 
prescribed by the Advance Licensing Committee either 
in individual cases or in Annexure V to this Appendix , 
no certificate from a Chartered Engineer or Chartered 
Accountant or DGTD , etc . would be required to be 
submitted along with tho application . An input 
output norin fixed in an individual case cannot be 
claimed as the basis for issue of licences under this 
Scheme for another applicant. The application 
should , however, contain all other prescribed docu 
ments . 


13 . The following categories of applications will 
only be considered by the Hqrs. Advance Licensing 
Committee : - . 
(1) Cases not covered by sub-paras (1) and (2) 

in para 12 above. 


( 2) Cases where export obligation sought to be 

initially imposed is beyond the periods of 
export obligation prescribed in para 23 (1 ) 
below . 


8 . Where input-output porms have already been 
approved by the Advance Licensing Committee in the 
office of the CCI& E , New Delhi, either in (i) indivi 
dual cases or (ii) Annexure V to this Appendix , the 
licensing authorities headed by Jt. CCI & Es /Dy. 
CCI& Es may issue licences under this Schemewithout 
prior clearance from the Regional/Hqrs . Advance 
Licensing Committees. In all these cases, after issue 
of the licences concerned , the licensing authorities will 
inforin the Regional Advance Licensing Committee 
concerned for ex - post facto approval. 


(3) Applicants seeking Advance licences for a 

value cxceeding 12 months requirements at 
a time. 


( 4 ) Applications for fixation of input- output 

norms as per para 15 below . 


Advance Licensing Committees and their jurisdictions : 

9 . To consider applications under this Schemc the 
Advance Licensing Committees having repesentative . 
of concerned authorities /departments as may be 
decided from time to time will be set up . Licences 


14 . Annexure V to this Scheme gives the relevant 
input- output norms relating to export products which 
have been approved by the Advance Licensing Com 
mitteo in the office of the CCI& E , New Delhi. Any 


290 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - Sec . 11 


1 


1 


+ 


11 


APPENDIX 19 - Contd . 


change in the input-output norms prescribed 
in Annexure V will require prior approval of the 
Advance Licensing Committeo in thọ office of the 
CCI & E , New Delhi. 


15 . A registered exporter may apply to the Advance 
Licensing Committee in the office of the CCI& E , 
Udyog Bhavan , New Delhi for approval of the input 
output norms of the products to be exported by him 
in anticipation of the orders to be obtained during 
the course of the year. 


Letter of Authority : 

21(1 ) On a licence issued under this Scheme, the 
facility of issuing letter of authority , if eligible , will 
be restricted to the supporting manufacturers whose 
name/s figure /s in the DEEC issued notwithstanding 
the provisions in paras 118 and 119 of the Hand Book . 
No Letter of credit shall be allowed to be opened 
against a licence issued under this scheme by a person 
other than the licensce or the supporting manufactu 
rers shown in the DEEC . 


Duty Exemption Entitlement Certificate : 

16 . The licensing authority issuing a licence under 
this Scheme will also simultaneously issue the con 
nected Duty Exemption Entitlement Certificato in 
the form given in Appendix XVI- E of the Hand Book . 
These certificates will be issued in two parts — one 
for imports and the other for exports . Both tho 
parts of the DEECs duly completed in all parts by 
tho Customs will have to be surrendered to the licen 
sing authority concerned along with the proscribed 
documents in fulfilment of the export obligation 
imposed on them . 


(2) Export/trading houses may also be permitted 
by the Hqrs . Advance Licensing Committee to issue 
letters of authority to such supporting manufacturers 
against licences issued under this Scheme in relaxa 
tion of the provisions contained in para 118 ( 2) of 
the Hand Book provided such export /trading houses 
are agreeable to execute bonds with bank guarantee 
for the full Customs duties payable. 


Port of Registration : 

17. The licence and the DEEC under this scheme 
will be issued with a single port of registration and 
will be valid for import and export of the items co 
vored by them only through this port. If any imports 
or exports are to be effected from a port other than 
the port of registration , the licence holder will have 
to approach the Customs authorities concerned who 
may grant permission subject to such conditions as 
they may deem fit . In respect of coxtain items, the 
port of registration will be as indicated in sub para 
( + ) of the Customs notification in Annexur- I to 
this Appendix . 


Export obligations : 

22 . A licence issued under this scheme will bear 
a suitable export obligation . The export obligation 
period will begin from the date of clearance of the first 
consignment of import or from 30 days after the date 
of import of the first consigament, whichever is 
earlier . Initially , on a provisional basis the date of 
execution of bond /legal agreement will be treated 
as the date from which export obligation begins . 
However, on submission of bill of entry and the 
DEEC , the data from which the export obligation 
bogins will be regularised as stated above. 


23 (1). The period prescribed for fulfilment of the 
export obligation is as follows 


Sl. 
No. 


Export Product 


Period 


12 months. 


1 . Engineering items (Machinery/ 

turnkey projects only ) 
2. Cassettes (Audio or Video ) 
3 . Others 


6 months. 


9 months. 


Imports : 

18. Where the licence holder is cligible to Duty 
exemption for canalised items, it will be open to him 
either to import theso directly or obtain supplies of 
imported materials from the bonded stocks of the 
canalising agency concerned . 

19 . Where the applicant is eligible to Duty Exem 
ption for an item allowed for import under OGL in 
this Policy , it will be open to him to import that item 
and keep it in Customs bond for getting clearance 
against a valid unexpired licenco issued under this 
Scheme. Clearance of the item from the Customs 
bond will , however, havo to be offected aftor obtaining 
tho licenco under this Schemo without which the 
benefit of duty exemption will not be admissiblo . 

20 . In the case of higher freight or upward varla 
ton in exchange rates, the liconsiog authorities may , 
on rcquost, enhance the o .i. f. value of the liconce 
leguod under this Schemo providod tho 1.o .b , value of 
wport obligadoo prawihad lo algo amepondlahy 
onbanord 


(2) The Regional Advance Licensing Committees 
may consider , on merits , extension of export obliga 
tion for a period not exceeding three months . In 
the case of the export product Cassettes (Audio or 
Vidco ), hovover, no extension of export obligation 
will be granted under any circumstances . Normally , 
no further oxtension of export obligation will be 
granted beyond the throc months referred to abovo. 
Hovovor, in excoptional cabos for oxtonuating or 
cumstances, the Advance Licensing Committoo in 
the office of tho CCI& B , Nev Dolbi, may con dor 
great of further extonsion is export obligation porlod , 
Op the merite of thel) such a 


( I - O1 


भारत का राजपत्र : भसाधारण 


291 


1 


LH 


APPENDIX 19 Conid , 


Execution of bond : 


to a unit in FTZ / 100 % EOU , such entries relating to 
supplies in the DEECs involved will have to be made 
by the Development Commissioner or the Customs/ 
Central Excise Officer , as the case may be . 


24 (1) Before clearance of the first consignment 
of import , the licence holder shall exccute a bond 
with bank guarantee with the concerned licensing 
authority in the prescribed form given in Appendix 
XVI - C of the Hand Book . Certain categories of licence 
holders may be given the facility of bond with bank 
guarantee for a lesser value or legal agreement in 
lieu of the bond as per paras 339 and 340 of the 
Hand book . 


(6 ) Where an Advance licence holder has not 
exccuted the bond /legal agreement as he had 
already fulfilled the export obligation in full and a 
waiver for execution of the bond / legal agreement has 
been given , the Advance licence holder concerned 
shall, after effecting imports, submit the DEEC with 
Customs audited entries relating to imports and exports 
and Part H duly filled in by him to the licensing 
authority concerned . 


(2 ) If the applicant is not a manufacturer of the 
resultant products, the export bond /legal agreement 
shall be executed jointly by the exporter holding the 
licence and the supporting manufacturer / s whose 
name/s appear /s in the DEEC . For this purpose, the 
applicant registered exporter will have to indicate 
the names and address/ es of the manufacturers in 
whose factory /ies the resultant product/s are proposed 
to be manufactured and their daine /s will be included 
in the DEEC . In the case of merchant exporters 
of goods specified in para 6 of Appendix 13 of 
this Policy , the Hqrs./Regional Advance Licensing 
Committees may allow , on morits , for execution of 
such bond /legal agreement by the exporter, without 
insisting on a joint bond with their supporting manu 
facturers . 


Exports : 

25 . The shipping bill relating to exports covered 
by this Scheme shall bear such declarations and follow 
such procedures as may be laid down by the Customs 
authorities concerned . This provision will not apply 
to supplies against Advance licences issued for Inter 
mediate products/ Special Imprest licences . 


( 3) In the case of export/trading houses also , the 
Dame/ s of inanufacturer /s where the resultant pro 
ducts are to be manufactured will have to be indicated 
for inclusion in the DEEC but it will not be necessary 
for the export/trading house to execute a joint bond / 
legal agreement and they may execute the bond /legal 
agreement themselves . 


26 . Exports /supplies made from the date of receipt 
of application under this Scheme by the licensing 
authority concerned will be accepted towards dis 
charge of export obligation . However, the applicant 
exporter will be taking advantage of this provision 
only at his own risk and subsequently if his appli 
cation for a licence is rejected under this Scheme he 
will not be entitled to import the items concerned or 
to the duty exemption benefits . 


27 ( 1 ) Shipments made in the export obligation 
period will be entered on the DEEC by the Customs 
authorities concerned . Such endorsements on DEEC 
from the Customs are not required for supplies effected 
under an Intermediate Scheme or Special Imprest 
licence except to the extent covered by sub - para (2 ) 
below . 


( 4 ) Where the export obligation proscribed on a 
licence under this Scheme has been fulfilled in part 
before import of the exempt materials involved , the 
bond / legal agreement will be correspondingly reduced 
in value so that it represents only the unfulfilled part 
of the export obligation /Customs duty exemption . 
If the export obligation prescribed has been mot in 
full before any import takes place , execution of a 
bond /legal agreement will not be necessary . For 
these purposes, however, the Advance licence holder 
will have to produce to the licensing authority con 
cerned prescribed export documents to prove such 
partial or full fulfilment of export obligation along 
with thc DEECs showing Customs audited entries . 


(2) Supplies effected within the export obligation 
period by an Advance Licence holder for supply of 
the Intermediate products to a unit in FTZ / 100 % 
EQU will be endorsed on his DEECs, Part II, by the 
Development Commissioner or Customs/Central 
Excise Officer in the 100 % EOU , as the case may be , 
to indicate acceptance of such goods. Such supplies 
will be allowed only if the value of these goods is 
accounted for by the buyer unit for the purpose of 
counting the prescribed value addition . 


(5 ) Customs audited entries in DEEC referred to 
above will, however , not be necessary in case of 
supplies offected under Advance Licences for Inter 
mediate products to another Advanco Licence holder 
for Intermediate product or under Special Imprest 
Licence to the project authorities concerned . In those 
cases , the entries effected on the DEECs concerned 
by tho seller /buyer Advanco Licenco holder under 
the Intermediate Schome or the project authorities 
concornod , as the case may be, will sufice . Howevor , 
lo rokpoot of Advance licences inued for supply of 
Intormediate products whor such qupplies are offoctod 


(3 ) When supplies are effected by an Advance 
7" licence holder under Intermediate product Schemo 
to another Advance licence holder under the same 
Scheme, the supplier will mako an endorsement 
on the DEEC issued to the recipient about the actual 
Supplies effected to the latter. Similarly , the recipient 
will make suitablo ondorsoment on tho DBBG of the 
supplier about the acceptance of supplies from bim 


292 


THE GARETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SBC. 1] 


IA 


M 


APPENDIX 19 - - Contd . 


(4 ) Supplies effected by the Special Imprest 
licence holder within the export obligation period 
will be endorsed by the Project Authorities concerned 
on the DEECs, Part II, for having received the goods 
indicated therein , 


Certificates will be valid for a period of three months 
from the date of its issue and the registered exporters 
may prefer application for replenishment licences 
on the basis of those Excess Entitlement Certificates . 
It is clarified that the excess exports , if any , effected 
against a DEEC cannot be adjusted against another 
DEEC as accounting of each DEEC has to be dono 
separately . 


(5 ) If a shipment is sought to be effected in dis 
charge of export obligation either before the issue 
of the licence and the DEEC or after the expiry of 
tho stipulated period of export obligation , Customs 
authority will allow such exports on provisional 
shipping bills. Subsequently , if a licence and the 
DEEC are issued or the period for fulfilling export 
obligation is extended to cover these exports , the Cus 
toms authorities will regularise these exports. If , 
however , a licence and DEEC are not issued or 
period for fulfilling export obligation is not extended , 
the provisional exports will not be eligible for regula 
risation and these endorsements made will be cancelled . 
The licensing authority concerned will suitably endorse 
a copy of the communication addressed to the 
exporter to the Customs authorities concerned 
regarding such issue of licence or extension , as the 
case may be. 


Follow - up /Penal Actions : 

29 (1) Where any bond/ legal agreement has not 
been executed against a licence issued under this 
Scheme within the validity of the licence , licensing 
authority concerned will initiate action for calling back 
the licence for cancellation . 


(2 ) In other cases, a cautionary letter about the 
expiry of the export obligation period will be issued 
to the exporter one month before the expiry of tho 
export obligation period , Licensing authorities 
will also initiate follow -up actions within 30 days 
from the date of expiry of the export obligation period , 
If the exports have not been completed in fulfilment 
of the export obligation penal actions as provided 
in the succeeding paras will be initiated . 


(6 ) In the case of endorsements referred to in 
sub -paras ( 3 ) and (4 ) above , the acceptace of supplies 
will have to be signed by the authorised person vide 
para 50 of the Hand Book with his name, designation 
and full address of the firm along with the rubber 
stamp. All the relevant columns in the DEECS 
have also t by filled in . This will be witgout 
prejudice to any other certificates which are 
prescribed and required to be isued under tho 
provisions of this Policy . 


(3 ) If a licence holder fails to discharge the pres 
cribed export obligation within the permitted time, 
either in full or in part , the bond / legal agreement 
executed by him will be enforced . He shall also 
be treated to be in default, thereby disentitling him to 
secure any licences/release orders either under this 
Scheme or under any other provision of this Policy . 
In such cases, the registered exporter shall - 


(7 ) At the request of the licence holder, on com 
pletion of his exports or for settling his accounts vide 
para 29 (3 ) below before such completion, the Customs 
authorities will normally return the DEECs 
with all parts filled in within 30 days from the date 
of receipt of DEECs with the connected documents. 


(1) pay forthwith to the Customs Authority 

concerned duty on the proportionate quantity 
of exemptmaterials imported corresponding to 
the products not exported and on any excess 
materials that is left over after utilisation 
in the manufacture of the resultant products 
and completion of the corresponding exports ; 


and 


( ii) pay interest at 18 % per annum of the total 

amount of Customs duty and other duties 
payable from the date of clearance of the 
imported goods (exempt materials ) to the 
date on which the amount due from him is 
actually paid . 


28 . The value of a licence issued under this Scheme 
will be debited to the REP entitlement, if any , ad 
missible to exports made in fulfilment of the export 
obligation prescribed . Every licence holder under 
this Scheme will be eligible for import replensihment 
licences as admissible in terms of Appendix 17 of 
this Policy for the balance value, if any, after fulfil 
Iment of his export obligation . Imports of res 
tricted /Limited permissible /canalised items actually 
offected and not OGL items) will alonę be computed 
for calculating the total imports effected by him . 
Similarly , any exports effected by the registered exporter 
in excess of the export obligation prescribed will be 
eligible for the full replenishmentbenefits as admissible 
under Appendix 17 of this Policy . For such 
remaining additional replenishment benefits , if any, 
due to the registered exporter, the licensing authority 
concerned , while redcoming the bond /legal agreement, 
will simultaneously issue Excess Entitlement Certi 
ficates entitling the registered exporter to claim re 
plenishment licences. Such Excess Entitlement 


The defaulting liceasee will take the above actions 
within a month from the date of any order issued 
by the licensing authority concerned . 


(4 ) If the defaulter licenseo fails to act according 
to the provisions in sub - para (3 ) above, the licensing 
authority shall recover the amounts and value of such 
REP licences due from export entitlements due to 
the defaulting exporter. The Customs authoritios 
shall also take suitable action for recovery of Customs 
or other duties and interest thereon under Section 


(MILUT 1] 


भारत का राजपक्ष : पसातारण 


293 


APPENDIX 19 - Contd . 


imported subsequently on this licence as replenish 
ment to the supporting manufacturer concerned whose 
Dame appcars in the DEEC for further production 
and subjoct to Actual User conditions. 


142 of the Customs Act 1962 . These actions shall 
be without prejudice to any other action that may be 
taken against the defaulter exporter under the Import 
& Export (Control) Act, 1947 and the Order issued 
thereunder . 

(5) Any follow -up or penal action initiated by the 
licensing authorities shall not be discontinued unless 
these are stayed or set aside by the appellate authori 
ties concerned . 


Admissibility of Drawback : 


Utilisation of exempt materials : 


31, No Drawback will be admissible on the pro 
ducts exported/ supplied under the Scheme in respect 
of any Duty exempt materials allowed against such 
exports /supplies . In respect of any other duty paid 
materials , whether imported or indigenous, used in 
such products , a suitable brand rate may be fixed by 
the Ministry of Finance (Director of Drawback ), 
on request by the registered exporter concerned . 


30 . Exempt materials imported against a licenco 
under this Schemo shall be utilised for the manfac 
turo of the resultant products specified in the DEEC . 
Such materials shall not be loaned , sold or transferred 
or disposed of otherwise undor any circumstances . 
However, in cases where the export obligation has 
been partially or fully met before the receipt of the 
licence (but made after the date of receipt of the appli 
cation for the licence ), the Advance Licensing Com 
mittee in the office of the CCI & E , New Delhi, may 
consider transfer at landed cost of the exompt materials 


32 . Ministry of Finance may also consider exempt 
ing Intermediates manufactured under this Scheme 
from payment of excise duty as may be leviable . 
Otherwise, Exçişe duty for the manufacture of Inter 
mediates will have to be paid by the manufacturer 
concerned and Drawback , if any, claimed in accord 
ance with the Rules, 


· 294 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SHC. 1) 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 19 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 


MINISTRY OF FINANCN 


Department of Revende 
INDIRECT TAXES DIVISION 
New Delhi, the 5th April, 1982 
the 15th Chaitra , 1904 (Sala ; 

NOTIFICATION 

CUSTOM 


( 11 ) 


declaration before the Assistant Col 
lector of Customs binding himself to pay 
on demand an amount equal to the duty 
leviable , but for the exemption , on tho 
imported materials in respect of which 
the conditions specified in this notifice 
tion have not been comptied with . 


G . S . R . - In exercise of the powers conforted 
by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 25 of the Customs Act, 
1962 (52 of 1962) , and in supersession of the notif 
cation of the Government of India in the Department 
of Revenue No 117 / 78 - Customs (GSR No . 318 ( E ) ], 
dated the 9th June, 1978 , the Central Goverpment, 
being satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest 
Ho to do, hereby exempts the goods specified in the 
First Schedule to this notification and imported 
against an Advanco Licence issued under the Imports 
( Control) Order , 1955, or obtained against the Advanco 
Release Order on canalising agency for release of 
goods already imported and warehoused under 
Chapter IX of the said Customs Act, being materials 
required to be imported for the purpose of manu 
facture of goods, or replenishment of the materials 
used in the manufacture of goods or both for execu 
tion of one or more export orders, from whole of the 
duty of customs leviable thereon which is specified 
In the Fint Schodulo to the Customs Tari . Act, 
1975 (51 of 1975 ), and the whole of the additional 
doty leviable thereon under section 3 of the Anid 
Customs Tarik Act, 1975 , subject to the following 
conditions , namely : 


( c ) the goods corresponding to the resultant 

products in respect of value , quantity , der 
cription , quality or technical characteristics , 
88 specified in tho said Certificato art expor 
led within the time specified therein or such 
extended period as may be granted by the 
Committee ; 


( d ) the exempt materials shall be used for tho 

purpose specified in this notification and 
provided that this condition shall not apply 
in relation to any exempt materials which 
have been imported for replenishment of 
the materials used in the manufacture of 
goods ; 


(hereinafiated 
by tbond schedulenthay 
, doceries 


( a ) the materials imported are covered by a 

Duty Bzcmption Entiticment Certitonto 
(hereinafter rotorred to the au cartin 
auto ) moted by the Committco la the form 
upoutted lo the second chedulo to the moun 
cdon , In ropoct of value , quantity , dosent 
tion , quality or technical characteristics , 
a pecified in Part C of the maid Certif 


( c ) the exempt material, or any portion there of 

shall not be sold or otherwise transferred to 
any other person, or utilised or pormitted to 
be utilised or disposed of in any other 
manner, without the previous permision of 
tho Committee. 


(b ) the importer at the timo of clearanco of the 

Imported material makos - - 


" ( 1 ) In the caso of good . beng Nylod ibre , 

Nylon yarn , Nylon fabrics , Polyester fibro , 
polyester yurn , polyester fabria , stainless 
steel shecte , stalno steel string of magcotto 
tapro, the import shall be only through uy 
of the Sex ports of Kandla , Bombay , Co 
cliin , Madras , Vizakhapatoom and Calcutta 

or through any of tho Alrports of Bombay, 
Calcutta , Delhi, Madras and Bangalore or 
through olther of the internal container de 

pots at Delhi and Bangalorc and the export 
of finished products in which such goods aro 
used shall be only through any of the sald 
sen porta , Alrsmert loternal containa 


( 1) 


A claim la writing to the Collector of 
Customs for such exemption and execu 
teg a bond legal undertaking before such 
authority as may be approved by the 
Ceutral Govorament for complying with 
the conditions specified in this notificatiop 


ampot 


[ RTT 


1 ] 


भारत का राषपा : प्रसाधारण 


295 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 19 — Conid , 


Explanation : - In this gotification 


( iv ) " resultant products " means the goods speci 

fled in Part B of the said Certificato ; 


(1) " Conimitteo " means the Inter-Departmental 

Committec , as constituted by the Coptral 
Government under the Office Memorandum 
of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Commerce No. 1 ( 3 ) / 66 -EAC, dated tho 
26th June , 1967, for the time being in force , 
or as reconstituted by the Central Govern 
ment from time to timo; 


( v ) " Canalising agency " means a public sector 

agency designated for imports of canalized 
Item 1 


( vt) " importer " includes the holder of an Advance 

Release Order , who obtains supplies of 
materials imported and warehoused by a 
canalising agency under Chapter LX of tho 
Customs Act, 1962 ( 52 of 1962). 


(1 ) " exompt materials " means the materials 

imported and specified in Part C of the said 
Cortificate and eligible for exemption from 
duty under this notification ; 


( it) "materials " means goods which are raw 

materials (whether consumablo or not ) and 
includes semis, components , parts and inter 
mediato products used in tho manufacturo of 
goods and their packings ; 


Sd / 

(G . R . Sharma) 
Deputy Secretary to the Government 

of India . 


296 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - Sec . 1] 


1 


m4 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 19 - -Contd . 

" THE FIRST SCHEDULE " 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


Doscription of the goods 


No 


Heading No. of the First 
Schedulo to the Customs 

Tariff Act, 1975 


(3 ) 


05 .01/15 
08 .01/13 and 20 .01/07 
9 .02/03 and 9 . 04 /10 
11. 03 /09 
12 . 01 


1. Ivory , Unmanufactured 
2 . Fruits -- Pool of molons or citrus fruit - frosh or proserved 
3 . Mato , Spicos and Tea . . . . . . 
4 . Malt, Starches and gluton . . . . . . 
3. Oll seeds and oleaginous fruit ; wholo or broken 

(1) Not clsowhero specified . 

(2) Copra . 
6. Flours or meals of oil scods or oleaginous fruit, nod -dofatted (excludlag mustard four) . . . 
7. Şeeds, frult and sporcs, of a kind used for gowing . . . . . . . . . 

Sugar beet, whole or sliced , fresh , dried or powdored ; sugar cano ; hop concs and lupulin 
Plants and parts ( including seeds and fruit) of trees, bushos , shrubs or other plants , heing gonds of a 
kind used primarily in pörfumory , in pharmacy, or for insecticidal, fungicidal or similar purpos, fresh , 
dried , whole , cut, crushed , ground or powdered , 
(1) Not elsowhero spocified . 

(2 ) Goods used primarily in pharmacy, or for losecticidal, fungicidal, or similar purposes, 
10 . Vegetablo saps and oxtracts ; poctic substancos , poctinatos and poctatos : agar- agar and other natura ! 

mucilages and thickeners, dorivod from vegetable products . 


12 , 02 
12 .03 


8 . 


12 . 04 /06 
12 . 07 


13 . 03 


11. Oils, fats, fatty acids including acid oils other than those of animal origlo ; fatty alcohols , glycerol and 

plycerino . . . . . . . . . . 
12 . Lingood oll ; pon - cdiblo vagotable oils. . . . . . . . . . . . . 
13 . Sugar . . . . . . . . 
14. Cocoa and cocoa proparations (for oxamplo, cocoa beans, shells, husks , skins and waste, cocoa pasto , 

cocoa butter (fat or oil) , cocoa powder , chocolato and other food preparations containing cocoa ). 
13 . Malt oxtracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . 
16 . Unmanufactured tobacco . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. 


15. 07 & 15 . 8 / 13 
15 . 07 
17. 01 
18 . 01 /06 


19 . 01/08 
24 . 01 


25 . 01/32 


26 01 


17 Sulphur of all kinds , other than sublimod sulphur, precipitated sulphur and colloidal sulphur , Asbestos , 

cride natural boratos and concentrates thereof (calcincd or not) but not including borates separated 
from natural boric acid containing not more than 85 % of H3 BO3 calculated on the dry weight; rutile 

gand . 
18 . Motallio ores and concentratos, roasted Iron pyritos . . . . . . . . . 

(1) Not olsowhero specified . 
(2) Antimony oro and concentratos, 
(3 ) Tungston ore and concentrates . 

(4 ) Zing oro and concontratos. 
19 . Slag ash and residues containing motals or motallic compounds. . . . . . . . 


26 .02 /04 


27 . 08 , 27 . 12 /13 and 
27 . 14 /16 
28 . 01/ 58 


Chomicalolomonts , Inorganic chemical compounds and other products as specified in Notes 1 and 2 of 

C . T . A . Hoading 28 .01/58 . 
21. (1) Not olsowhoro spocificd . 

(2) Aluminium fluoride. 
(3 ) Aluminium oxldo . 
(4) Blonching pesto and bleaching powdor. 
( 5) Borex and borio acid . 


LULU 


ITT 1- 


8 1] 


भारत का राजपन . मसाधारण 


297 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 19 – Conta , 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - 
(2 ) 
- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
( 6) Carbon (including carbon black ). 
(7) Cruolito, synthetic. 
(8 ) Lodlne in crude form . 
(9 ) Mercury (oxcluding AR , OP . USP Uroquivalont grado of purlty to containers holding 500 grams 

or less) 


(10 ) Silicon 
( 11 ) Sodium hydrosulphito . 
(12 ) Titanlum Dloxido . 
( 13 ) The following products, nainely 1 Aoids, not olsowhoro speolflod , Air Compressod or liquid ), 

Asides, Ammonia , Anhydrous, Arsenic , Azidos , Blourbonatogor soda, Brorides , 
Cadmium sulphide, Carbides (for example Silicon Carbido , Boron Carbido , Motal Carbidos ), 
Chrome compounds, Corundum , Cobalt oxide , artificial, Green copper as (Ferrous sulphate), 
Hydridos, Lead compounds , Magnesium oxdde, whothor or not chemically v puro ). Nitridos, 
Potassium compounds , Selonium , Silicídos , Soda ash , Sodium Cyapide , Sodium silicato , 
Uranium oxido, Zirc compounds. 


29 . 01145 


Organic compounds, includtag antibiotics , Hormones , Sulpha drugs, Vitaınlos and other producte 
specified in nots 1 and 2 of CTA Hending 24 .01/ 43 . 
(1) Not elsewhere apoclied 
© ) Acld crosylic . 
(3) The following alcohols , namoly , 1gopropyl alcohol, mothyl alcohol, propyl aloohol. 
(4) The following hydrocarbons, napely, bodzeno, othyl bonzone, toloone, xylono. 
( 3 ) The followlog dyo lotormodlate , namely , C -Aold (2 - Chloro - 5 Toluldino-4 . Sulphonic Aoid ). or 

6 -Chloro - M - Toluldeno- 4 Sulphonlo Acid ), H -Acid , I-Acid ( 2 -Naphthyl Amino- 5 Hydroxy- 7 
Sulphonto Acid ) , J -Aold uroa , Acoto - acet- Anilldo, Aceto - Apot- O - C - Chloro - Anllido, Acoto - Acet 
0 - Chloro -Anilldo , Acoto - Apot- O - Toludino , Aceto Acetlo Estor ( Bthyl/Mothyl). 
1 - Amino -anthraquinono . 
2 - Amino - anthraquinono . 
(Bota -Amino - Anthraquinone). 
O -Amloo Azo Tolueno. 
( 2 , 3/ Dimethyl-4 -Amino - Azo -Beozono or 4- Ortho -toluya zo - Ortho- Toluldine ), Amino ISO G -Acid , 
1-Amino -6 -Nitro -2 -Naphthal-4-Sulphonic Aald , Anthra quloon /Reta Naphthalene , 
Thioglycolic Acid . 
(2 -Naphthyl Tbloglycollo Aold ). 
Bata Naphthol, 
Boozidlo . Sulphato/ Bonz dine Dihydrochlorido . 
Benzoyl J-Acid . 
( 2-Bonzoyl Amino 5-Naphthu1-7 -Sulphonic Acid ). 
Chicago Aold , 
4 -Chloro -2 -Anlaidino, 
M - Chloro Aniline, 
0 - Chloro Anlling 
P -Chloro Anſlino . 
4 -Chloro -2 -Nitro Anisolo , 
4 -Chloro - 2 -Nitro Aniloo, 
M - Chloro - Para -Xylodo , 
4- Chloro- o - Toluidino, 
3- Chloro - O - Toluding , 
23Dichloro Anllino, 

14 Dlamino Anthraquinono , 
113 Dlamino Anthraquinono, 
219 Dichloro Nitro Boazono , 
21 Dimothyl-4 - Chlorophenyl- Thioglycolic Acid , 
Dimethyl Sulphato . Dloltro - Stllbeno Disulphoolc Acid 
(4, 4 /Dipitrostilbeno-2 , 2 - Disulphonlo Acid ), 

Janma Acid . 
- - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - 
G1/ 85 _ 20 . 


- - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


298 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART I.-- EC. 1 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


ANNHXURE A TO APPENDIX 14- - OMIA 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


(3) 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Meta -Phenylene Djamino 
Mota - Toluylono Dlamino 
Novil Winther Acid 
M - Nite - Aniline 
D -Nitro - Apiling 
P -Nitro Anisolo 
P -Nitrogophonol (I-Hydroxy -4 - Nitro Bodzeno ). 
Ortho Anildlaw, Ortho Nitro - Tolucdc Ortho Toluidloo 
M -Nitro - P - Toluldino (MNPT ) 
Para Anisijine, Pain Nitro Anilwo, 
Pare Nitro Tolucoe , Para Nitro - Toluçao- Sulphonic Add . Pora Nitro- Tolucno-Ortho 
Sulphonic Add ( Toluonto - 4-Nitro -2- Sulphonic Acid or Borzono- 1-Methyl-4 -Nitro -2- Sulpbonic Acid 
Para Tolulding . 
Para Toloidino Meta Sulphondo Acic Phonyl ). 
Add 2 -Pocnylamino- 5 - Hydroxy Naphthaleno 
9 - Sulphuric Acid ) , 
N . N . Dimothyl Anilino 
Alpha Naphthylamino 
Ortho Phonſtidine. 
Ortho Tolidine Baso . 
Meta Di-Nitro Benzario . 
2 , 4 -Dintro -chloro - Honzano 
0 -Nitro Anisolo . 
Olphenylamine 
Sodium Nitrito 
Naphthalono 
Aniline Oil, 
4- Chloro - o - Toluding , 
Any other Dye lotermodtate pot alsowhere specified . 
Peri Acid 
Rooduline Acid G - Salt , Ř Salt ( 2 Najthothal- 7 , 
6 -Digulpbonlo Acid , Sodium Salt ), 
Schactfor s Aold (2-Naphthol- 6- Sulphụnlo Acid ). 
Socliuro Naphthionato /Naphthionic Acid , 
Sulphanſing Agld. 
Tobias Açld (2 -Naphtbol Amigo - 1 Suphoria Add ) 

Trichtoro Boozono. 
f) ( be following Intermodtator, namoly. 

Dlamino Stillbone, Dlsuphoulc Acid 
( 4. 4 /Dlamino Stilbonc- 2 2 /Diwphonic , Acid . 
Dlothyl Mota Amino Phenol (Mota -DI-Ethylamino - Phenol), Motaallic Acid , Ork Tonu 11 
Phonyl peri Aud (Phenyl- Amino Naphthalene , 

8 - Sulpbonic ) 
(1 ) Past colour basct ordinarily used 4s coupling communopt 
( 8 ) Fast colour salt, 
(9) Naphthols ordinardy used as ocupling compone011. 
( 10 ) The following compounds papely . 

Acid not clsewhero spoolfod , acotic acid , carbolla cald (Phonol). oltric acid , Torle acid rasy 

ossonce 
(11 ) Aromatic chemicals , namely , auch organle chemicalo as aro ordinarily dacd for impartiog urom . 

to perfumcry , cosmetics , toilet product, food producto , and beverages 
(1.2) Insecticide, Pesticide and fungicide chemicas, 
( 13) Pharmacoutical chemicals that is chemicals having prophylally or the dwarhu # lag am * * 0 

Folcly or predominantly 75 drugs , nof - sewhere specifod 
( 14 ) The following pharmacoutica ) chornlcals , namely , 

Cocains, alkalolds of oplom and tholt derivativos, alkaloida ol clochons and onbor mlolond , whics 
aro chemically identical with clochona alkalolds 


[ ATT |- 


1 ] 


भारत का राजपत प्रसाभारण 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 19 - rond 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - 
13 Antibiotics 
116 ) Sulpha Drugs 
(19) Vitamin 
( 19 ) Saccherine and such other substance as the Contral Government may by antification In the end , 

guzette dcclaro to bo of a Ulko nature or use to succbadne, and Intermodinte ugod la the add 
facture of saccharine or s ich other substances and not f by the Central Government as aforeksid . 


(19 ) Laburate ry cbemicals, organic and Inorgaplo, as doino nooto 2 of CTA Hoading 29 01/43 
(20) Caprolactum Add dimethyl Terophthalate 
(21) Camphor . 
(221 Oxalic Acid 
(23) Calolum /Sodium Formato 
(24 ) Formaldehyde , . 


23 . Ormano- therapeutic glads or other organs, driod whethor or not powdered ; organo- therapeutlu oXtrace 

of glands or Othor organs or of their secrations ; othor Animal substanco prepared for therapeutic or 
prophylactic uses. not elsewhore spoolded or facluded 


30 01 


Astigara ; microbial vaccines , torino , arrobial cultures (including formients but cxcluding yousts ) 
and almilar produots. 


30 . 02 


# 


30 .03 


Mebcament ( incluiing watertuity inocauxnts ) 
(1) Noi elowborn spoolfled . 
( 2) Medicamente oontalaing spirit. 


30 .04/03 


28 . Wedding pauza , bandagor und similar artioles (for examplo , adhosłyo plastors . Doultos ). 

impregnated or coated with pharmacoutical substances or put up lo rotall packdogs for modical or surgl 
cal purposes ; storilo gurgloal outuro materials and other pharmacoutloal goods spanbod in poto 3 of 
C . T . A . Heading 30 . 04 /05 . 


21 . 


32 .01 /03 


Tanong attracts of voyetablc origin , tanning (tannio aclds ) and their dorlyativos , gyothotlo organlo 
tanning substancos, ; tanging preparations, whuther or not containing natural tanplog inatortals 
onzymatic proparations for protanning (for example , of cozymatic , pan - croatic , or bacterial orglo ) i 
(1 ) Not elsewhero spoulflod 
( 2) Gambler. 
3 ) Nincral tanning and tanning ortracts of vogota hle wrigin other that gambler. 


32 .04 /12 


Colourion mattor ; synthotlo organic dyestuffs (including pigmoni dyo stuffs ) : products of a kind used 
* luminophores ; optical bleaching agont substantivo to the fibro . proparod pigments and propared 
opadflors : prepared driors ," glasg frit and other glass in the form of powdor , granulos or flakos ; stamping 
rolls i 
( 1 ) Not olsowhero specified , 
(2 ) Pagmont dyestuffs . 
(1 ) Synthetic organic dyostuits, not olsewhere spacidad 

Azo Dyrs 
) Sulphur Dyes 
(0 ) Vat dyes Including solubilizou vats 
(1 ) Optical bleaching agent 


33 .01/06 


Resential oils , natural or synthotic ; aqueous distilliates and aqueous solutions of ossontial olls , including 
quoti produots suitable for medical usos ; concutrates ind absolutes ; reglaolds; perfumery, cosmetic 
und tollet preparations, room doodorisont 

(1 ) Not olnowhero specified 


Natural ossontial olls of oltronolla , annamou and clanamon leol . 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


300 
-- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
- - -- - 

ANNEXUKE I TV APP LNDIX 14 .- cond 


(PART | - -SEC . 1] 
- - - - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


( 1 ) 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 
30 , Lubricating preparations and proparations of a kind usod for opl or grease t - Atment toxtiles , catto! 

or other materials, but not locluding preparatirips cont +1711 , i nacre hy weigbt o Droleum 
olls or of oils obtained from bituminous minerals . Artificial wexos ( including wat r soluble waxes ). 
prepared waxos , uot omulsified or containing solvents and sodium lauryl sulphate, sodium lauryl ether 
sulphate . 


01 


15 01/07 


The following substances, and their derivativos, namely , caseln , albumins, gelatlo (whether or notcoloured 
or sutfaco -worked ) peptings and other protein substances ; izlogloss ; hide powder; dextriny ; « luble 
or roasted starches ; onzymos , prepared enzymes and glues not elsewhore specified or included : 
(1) Not cisowhore spoclfled . 
(2 ) Gelatio , rofnod. 


32 . 


Ferro -certum and other pyrophorlo Alloys in all forını 


36 , 01 /08 


? Y 01/ 19 


Chorioal products and propertions of the chemical or aliled Industries (Includin , ihoso consisting 
ofmixtures of natural products ), not clewhere specifled o laçlerledi dal products of the chennçal 
or allied industrios , not colzewbore specified or included 
( 1) Not cisowhers specified , 
(2 ) Activated Carbon . 
(3 ) Anti-knok preparatlong and propared adultivos fur mineral vils 
(4 ) Artificial Graphito . 
(5) Compound ontalysts . 
(6) Plastloisors not elpowhere specified . 
(7) Proparod rubber chemicals. 
(8 ) Stockholm Tar, refipod . 
( 9 ) Wator treatment chemicals , not olsowhoro specifiod 


34 


39 . 01 /06 


Condensation , polyoondonsation and polyaddition produots, whother or not modified or polymerised , 
and whether or not lingar (for examplo , phonoplasts , Aminoplasts , alkyds, polyallyl-eston and other 
unsaturated polystyrono, polyvinyl colorido, polyvíoyl dorivatelyos, polyolcthacrylio derivativos , 
coumaronoidenoresins) ; regenerated celluloso ; collulose nįtrate , celluloso scotato and other 
celluloso estors, cellulose cthors and othor colulosia chemical derivatives of cellulosic, (for 
oxample, collodions, celluloid ); vulcadisod Abre ; bardoned gelatino ; natural resins modified by 
fusion ( run gums); artifloial reglos obtained by esterification of natural rosit o : of resinio acids (ester 
gum ); chemicalderivatives of natural rubbxr (for o ppk , chlorinato rubber, rubb or hydrochloride , 
oxidised rubber , cyclised rubber), othor high polymors , artificial rolns and artificial plastic 
materfals , Including alginic acid , Its salts and estors ; llooxyn . 


39 . 


Articlog of materia )s described io Headlog No 39 .01/06 , Asceptic bags 


, 


39. 07 


36 


40 . 01 04 


Raw rubber, natural or synthuric, rubbor latox , natural or synthetic ( Including mixtures thereof) whothai 
or not pre- vulcanlsod ; Balata , guttapercha and similar natural gums, factico derived from oils : roclaimed 
rubber ; wasto and scrap of unbardoncd rubber. 


37 


10 .05/16 


Preparations ( including master batches) of natural or synthetlo rubbor ; vunufactures of natural or 
synthetic rubber, wbother or not vulcanisod or hardened , not olsewhoro specified ; vulcanisod rubber 
throad and cord , whothor or not toxtile covered , and textilo throad covered or impregnated with vulca . 
nised rubber ; waste and scrap of hardened rubber ; 
(1) Not alsowbcrc spoolfird , 
(2) Rubber tyros end tubos for wboobs of kill kinds 
(3) Transmissino , conveyor or elevator bells or belting or rulonxed 1ubb 
(4) A roeptic Bagn . 


- 


Jun 


[ TTTke 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


301 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


AV 


A 


Letter 


INNEAURE Å TO APPENDIX 19 - - Conra . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- - - -- ---- 


- 


41 .01 


41. 02 /10 


- 


- 


4.1 .01194 
44 . 01 28 


acifin 


. 


47 . 01 


38 . Raw hides ar 1 Skins (ties , salied , drw , publed or ilmuds, whether or not split, including sheep-skins 

in the wool. 
39 . Bovine cattlei eather (inciudha tulalo luther ) and equinc leather ; sbeep and land skin leather, 

other kinds of leather including counposition leather. parings and other waste of leather or of compo . 

sition leather . 
40). Furskins and artificia ! fur ani viticie : r** e in : . 
41 . Wood in the cougl iuet we: Wird in 

e muna , wewe Hous and wood woul ; saw ind dressed 
timber ; voyeered wood , plywood , colalar www .l, riproved wood and reconstituted wood ; tibre , building 
board of wood or other vegetable material, wilher or noi bonded with natural or 3 tificial rasius or 
With other organic binders , pook , bobbins au tite lik : turned wood ; articles of woud , oot in 

here specificd : 
( 1) Not elsewhere specified 
(2 ) Fibre building boardinese and ovė jika mecc. ble material, whether or entwuad witli VÉLVET 

Organic binders 
Naturilor agglomerated cork wid dixime : ki , * & C o . . . . . . . . 
43 . Kayod grade wood pup 

Paper and paper board , all sorts , wie e il roils, sheels or cut to size or shape ( including cellulose 
wadding, composite paper or paper borist and inipregnated , coated , corrugated , edibossed , perforated, 
surface coloured or decorated , ruled or printed paper or paper board ) ; filter blocks, slabs and plates of 
paper - pulp : stationery made of paper or paper board : articles rot elsewhere specified , of paper, paper 
board ; paper pulp or cellul.ye wadding : 
(1) Not elsewher specified . 
(2 ) Nawsprint containing mechanicaj nood puip amounting to nos less thap 70 % of the übre content 

(excluding chromiu , marola , flint , postr, storce ; and art paper ) . 

(3) Ouwx printing and writing paper 
45 . Transfers (Doralom ? ras) 
46 . Mulberry raw silk or all grados incluin . dupior . 
47 . Spun silk yarald Dutimarked 

Yara of man -made sidro (cout uauit b ull, strip (artificial straw and the like ) and imitation catguts 
of man -made fibre and Nylon Sewing Thread 
Woven fabrics man -made fibres (contluuous ). Including voven fabrics of monofilor strip of Heading 

No. 31 .01/03 
50 . Wool and other antual balr yara/wovon fabrics of shocp s or lamb s wool . . . . . 


48 .01/ 21 


49 . 08 / 11 
50 . 02 
50 . 07 /08 
51 .01/03 


51 .04 


$ 1. 


Plaz and romia . 


53 . 01 /05, 
53 . 06 / 10 and 
53 , 11 / 13 
54 . 01 /02 and 
54 .03 / 04 
55 .07/09 


56 . 01/04 


$ 2 . Mixaul/ olonded fabrics manufactured uut 219 106 - 101dt forcyands in wluch cotton picdominates on 

Weight ; cotton denimo /corduroy faolo 
Cotton Heavy Shoeting/Coton drillic 10 % * : * : 
with scight not les: 02 :25 78 x 5g,writer 
Mul- tzade fors . ( ** ) : ( kans of you os - 10 14 .309 ia aste) and pulled or garaotted rags ) of 
Dampada fibres (L . 12 .1** * ** : : , * 7:400 ) Birthor wt 103 carded or combed or otherwise pre 

pared for spirning : - voilaadui LEA HERO 
54 . Bonded thread with sys-thetic fiiaconis bavio : more tsa 21 entora u Sowing thread (wax coatod ) 
baying more thap 211 dalier 

. . . . . . . 

. 
55. Yern c1 mso -made sibiu ( che U21 :.- WÉI - 

. 

, 
36 . Ware fabrica 04-02 19.6b: s (dienia . * 
97. Elemp (mkait4) ARD 52 # : ab : 
58 . · Webbing : . . 
39 . Wadding and jeix iniuding ai. : $ $ T L , abric Dureganked 420 contra tozu ). 
Artician of a kind #ritabl* for 2015 . * * are 

actie tarek 
* * * OS NOSSOS *** * * Hoe sien . : }, 

: Thered : 00191 643 * * , gloses , lochiago 


. 


56 . 05 /06 
56 , 09 /06 
36 . 09 


38 . 03 


Jagtis tartes a estas faku**** 


60 , 01/ 06 


ut 


U 


1 


1 


H 


2 LINE 


6 . 00101 Dame bags 


the pertutt 


302 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1. Sec . 1 ] 


er 


WWW 
. 
W WW 

. . . 


L 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 19.- Conid 


- 


WAY 


NATA 


arty 


D . 


Met 


YPPER 


. 


, 


64 .01 /06 


61. Part of footwear Toe caps, Toe Puffs , Box Toes in soles, mid soles and gaiters and the like 
66. Accessories for umbrellas . . . . 


66 .01/08 


68 ,01/10 


63. Friction materials (segments , discs, washers , strins, sbcets, plates , rolls and the like) of a kind suitable 

for brakes, for clutches or the like, with a basis of asbestos , other mineral substances or of celloloso , 
whether or not combined with textile or other materials . 


69 . 01 to 69 . 16 


70 .01/ 16 


63A , Ceramic producto . . . . . 

. . . . . 

. 
66 . Class and glass ware, including containers for the conveyance or packing of goods, envelopes for cloctric 

lamp, electronic valves or the like , inners for vacuum flasks , articles of stationery , illumiuating glass . 
ware , optical glass , cinck and watch glasses and bricks , tiles , slabs and similar article of a kind com 
monly used la luilding . 


. 89/ 18 


67 . Laborduury , hygienic and pharmaceutical glassware , whether or nut graduated or caliberata glagg 

Ampoules , optical glass and elainants of optical glass , other than optically worked elements blank 
for corrective spectacle lensez . 


68 . Glass beads , Imitation pearls, Imitation procious and semi- precious stones , and similar fancy or deco . 

rative glasswares , and articles of glassware made therefrom , glass cubes and small gall glass platos for 
decorative purpose , articles eyes of glass excluding those for wear by bumana , ornaments and other 

fancy articles of lamp worked glass ; glass grains (ballotal), 
69 . Ole abre ( including wool) yarns, (abrics and articlor mnadoferuiru : 


90 Other articles of sur 


70 . 20 
$ 0 . 21 
11 .04 
13 . 01 


11 . Industrial diamonds aud synthetic diamond povdør 


13 . 02 


29 


1943 


73 .03 /05 


93 . 06 /07 


12 . Pigerca , cast irou and splegolelseo , in piga , block , lamps and tiinlar ol , 
73 . Ferro -alloys 
14 . Waste and scrap metal, shotand angular grit (whether or not graded) ; wire peilets , front vi povdorsi 

sponge Iron or steel, 
75. Puddled bars , pilings, Ingots , blocka, lumps and similar forms, blooms, billets, slabs and whoet bars 

(includiag tinplate bars ), of Iron or steel; pieces roughly shaped by forging , of Iron or steel , 
(1) Not elsewhere specified . 

(2) Places roughly shaped by forging of Iron or steel. 
86 . Iron or steel colls for re -rolling . . . . 
17 . Uplyersal plates of iron or stoci . . 

. . . 
18 . Bars and rods (including wire rod ), of iron or stoel, hot rolled , forge.i, extruded , cold forrood or coid 

finlabed ( including precision made ) ; hollow mining drill steel. 


73 .09 


13. 10 


19 . Angles, shapes and sections, of iron or stoel, bot rolled , forged , extruded , cold forned or cold - finbhed 

sheet piling of iron or storl, whether or not drilled , punched or made from ansemblod elemente . 


93 . 11 


. 


1912 


80 , Hoop end strip , of tron of stoc ), bot rolled or cold -rolled . 
81. Shoot and pleton, of irra oi stoel, dot-rolled or cold-robed a 
87 . Irod se steel wie , wleikr or not coated , but not inapland 


. 


83. Alloy 5sol and high carbon steel to 136 forms thotloned in bosdmaNox 73 .06, 97 € 13 . 44 * 

(1 ) Not olsewhore specified . 
2 Cols for faslig bare (including bright baca ), rods, wire racer1Q4. sheols and platex i stala 


44 miway god tramway track construction material of iron or stoel, the following : 

Rails , Check- rails , switch blades , cra $ 31343 ( or frogs ) , oroszlog place , Dojot rods , rock stils , weapark , 
Deb plate , chair , war wedgek , ale plates * ** Ple ), al allpo , * ** , toma con materias 


WI 


1 


भारतका राजपत्र : प्रसाधारण 


303 


- Unum 


un 


ANNBXURE I TO APPENDIX 19 - Conid . 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


(3) 


73. 17 1 $ 


- - - - -- - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - 

- - - - - 

- 
84 . Tabor and plpat and blanks thorofor, of Iron or stool , , , . . . 

. 
(1 ) Not ekonbere spoolilod . 
(2) Drilling tubes and plpas nad blanks therefor. 
03 ) Tubos and pipe for bollors falling witho Heedlog No. 84 01 /02 and blanks thorofru , 
(4 ) Tubos and pipe sboathod or lined with sonaslon -reslating material, such as globos , rubbers and 

plastha . 


66 . Tube und pipe fitting (for example , Jolats, elbows, unions and hanga ), of iron or stoel 


93 . 00 
13 21 


11 . Structure and parts of structuros (for ok & mplo hangers and othor buldings, bridges and bridgo-sections , 

lock gatos, towors , lattice masts , roofs, rooflag - frameworks, door and window frames, shuttory, balus 
trados , pillons and columns), of iron or stool ; platon , strips , rods , anglos , shapos soptions, tubes and the 
Whe , propared for use lo structures of Iron or stoel. 


13 . 22 /2 ) 


48 . Reservoirs, tnb , vats , online , drums, mms, boxes and Amilar aontalvors for any material (othor that 

conpressed or liqulfed qus), of leon or atual . 
. . Container of Iron or steal, for ompressed or ligullod 

. . . . . . . 
0 . Straoded wiro , cablos , cordags , ropes , plaltod bands, dogs and the liko, of Iron or stool wiro , but onolu - 

alng insulated cloctrla cablou . 
1. Aarbed Iron 01 stool olro ; twisted hood or singlo dat wtre , barbod or not, and loosely tolstod dogblo 

nu of Woda Wod for fonolog, of iron or stoel. 


73 . 24 
79 . 25 


73 . 26 


13 . 29 /28 


Crot 30, gloth , ani , aatting , fonon , ranfordoy Absten and dollar materiala , of Iron or stool projos 

punded postal of Iron or tool. 
3 . Qm4 tad purta thereof of iron or stool . . 

. . . . . 
0 ) Not olhar opoodilod . 
7 Moorlog chalik 


13 29 


4 . Apobors sad urnpools Bod parta Khoroor, of Iron or stool 


13 , 30 


13 . 31 


5 . Nail , acti , staplar , boot - balls , corrugated nalls , spikod cramps , studs , spikes and drawing plng, of 

Iron or stool phothor or not with beads of other materials, but not including such articles with honds 
of ooppor . 


93 .32 


6 . Boltand nuts (lncluding bolt onds and soror studs ) whether or not threadod or tappod , and sorow 

angludlag vorov hooks and sorov claps ). of Iron or stool; dvota , oottors , oottar- plas , vashers and spring 
wart , of iron or stool, 


7. 


Erthal 


of trou on 


13 . 33 /40 


94 .01/02 


14 . 03 


8. Copper mouto unwrought ooppar ( rofnod or 001) , copper vuto end vorap ; master alloy . . 
9 . Wrought af , udu, naglas, alaph And Footions of coppere ooppor pron 

OR OI CODpori ooppor Fron ] 

. . . . 
1) duc hu poolfod . 
W BAN , roda , anglo , Iba pou , soolong und wire of opalloyod ooppor . 
oghi platon , sarete , strip and foll , of ooppu 

. . . 

. . 
# P ** pod nad tebou 

^ . . . . . . 
" Tubo and pipes and bank Hordfor, of oupper , hollow bar of coppors tubo end pipe Attloga (for 

emplo , Jotiu , elbon , ancka und Jade ), of ooppar ! 
(1) Not eliberu specified . 
( Tabu and pipou and blants thorofor , and holov bart , of nominal bore excoodlag 19 millimeter , 


74 .04 /05 
14. 00 


wah 


. 


74 . 07/08 


thor Artigin of oxpopar laclodlog nally , macks, staplas, hook malu , apikod crampe , stude, plka and 
droppo ortosi OT WH with Acade of copper 


74 . 09 / 19 


N 


o , cu aple and stor intermedlaco product of alckel metallorgs ; ucwrought atoket 
unding Hoto -pl# dag Aal ) ; alokel vasto and wrap . 


5 . 01 


— LVLuh 


- 


- 


i 


. 


304 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART I - Sec . 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 19 - - Conra , 


- - - 


- - -- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


el 


- - 


- - - - - - - - 

31 


- - - - - 


- - - - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- 


- - 


- -- 


75 ,02 


105. Wrought bars, rods, anglos, shapes and sections of nickel wire i 

(1) Not olsowhere specified . 
(2) Electrical resistanco wiros of pickel chromo and othor nickol alloys . 


106. Wrought platos , shoots and strip , of nickel; nickel foil ; nickel powders and Makes 


. 


. 


. 


75,03 


107. Othor articles of plckel. 


, 


, 


, 


75 04 / 06 


76 .01 


108 . Uowrought aluminium ; aluminium waste and scrop 

(1) Not elsewhere specified . 
(2 ) Unalloyed aluminlum in any crude form , including lugots , blocks, slaby, brillert, 

and pellets . 


sc bars , shui 


109. Wrought bars , rods, anglos, shapes, and sections of aluminium ; alunonlum wie. 


76 . 02 


, 


, 


76 . 03 /04 


110 . Wrought plates, shoots , and strip of aluminium ; aluminium foll , , 

(1) Not elsewhore specified , 
( 2) Wrought platos, shoots , stip and foil, of unalloyed aluminium . 


111 . Aluminium powdor and takes 


. 


. 


. 


. 


, 


, 


, 


, 


, 


, 


76 .05 


112 . Tubes and pipes and blanks therefor, of alumlaum ; hollow bars of aluminium ; tubog and pipe fittings 

(for examplo, joints , elbows, sockets and flanges) of aluminium . 


76 . 06 /07 


113. Other articles of aluminium 


, 


, 


76 . 08 / 16 


114. Magneslum unwrought or wrought, and articles of wagoosium 


. 


. 


. 


77. 01/ 03 


77, 04 


. 
, 


, 


dish 


115 . Beryllium unwrought or wrought and artioles of beryllium . . 
116 . Unwrought load ( including argentiforous load ); lead wasto and sarap i 

(1) Not elsowbere epoclfiod . 
(2 ) Uoalloyed load , wwrought. 


117. Lead wrought and articles of load 


78 ,02/00 


19 .01 


118 . Unwrought Zinc : zinc yaste and Krop 

(1) Not elsowhoro spocified . 
( 2) Unalloyod zloo , Vowrought. 


119 . Wrought bars , rods, anglos , shapes and sections, ci zuc; and xdac wire 


. 


79 . 02 


120 . Vroupbt plutes, sheets flid strip of zino; zinc foll ; zing powdors and Dakes 


74 03 


. 


. 


. 


. 


.. 


79 , 04/ 118 


. 


. 


, 


, 


80 01 


121. Othor Articlor of zinc . . . 
122. Unwrought to : tin /wasto and scrapi , 

(1 ) Not olsowhero apcalfiod , 

( 2 ) Vaallogod tlo , unwrought 
123. Tio vrought and articles of tlo 


0 .02/06 


78708h , na 


81 UI, 


124 . Tungston , molybdenum , tantalum and other bryr Detal and coinnt vionght or 

artioloa thoroof 
(1 ) Not oloowhoto specified . 
(2 ) On - lloyod tvoguton , molded , 4sham in Ohr 000 RR , * 


125 


(or 1994 ( Aap of troub * * ** ople with me the 
Pete 1 ShurpC * * * 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


[ 1775 


1 ] 


भारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 


305 


-4 


RTE 


ANNEXURE 110 APPENDIX 19.- Conta 


hyun 


83 .01/15( 1 ) 


126 Locks, all sorts ( including fra nes incorp +603 lock , utDudbags, truks or fittings and moun . 

tings of a kind suitable for furniture , doom , stau cases, blinds, coach -work . saddlery, trunks, ( askets 


and lighting fittings and parts thereof (excluding articles talling within Chapter 85) ; fittings (for example , 
clasps , bucklu , hooks, eyes and yelet ) of a kint couruniy used for clothing, travci yoods , vi uthur 
textile or leather goods , tubular r vets and bifurnater rive s 


127 Parts ana accessories Lf machinery, mechani, il upplie24 elling u ader Hesumg Nos 84 13 i 14 . 00 


VIO 1184 60and 


128 . Taps, cocks, yalvey and siinilar pliances ( ui pipur 100LT will , tá iks, var dette ike inciudırg 

pressure reducing Valves and thermostaticily Club - 


$ 4 .01 


129 Ball roller or necdle rflerfra 


31 02 


130 . Transir issi01: shafts , Crunks rigs avusing reply be it c variags , xe San 

years and gear- boxe . End other variable ape - gart , flywheels , pulleys un , 
an ) shaft couplings 


. . * ra 
weilus 


$ 7. 6 


131 . Gaskets and similar jpınts or matai leeting time nebst er mater111 (for example achesios , feit 

and paper board ) or of lamingred metal foul, yet OL , ments of gasker , and similar jointy, dissimilar 
in composition , for engives pipes , tube , and the like , put up in pouches,envelopes or similar packings , 


132 . Electrical machinery and equipruit; pally rb reof 


85 , 01 to 85 18 


86 09 , 86 in 


133 parts of rajiway und tramwaywon uive and rolling stick , railway and tramway track öved. es and 

fittings ; mechanical equipiueat, not electrically wered fui signalling or trolling toal, rai r otra 
Vehicles ship or aircraft : parte of the forego un fixiure fittings equipme: i . 


134 Parts and accessories of the vebicle . fallingwla Hiacing N 5. 87 . 01 tu 87 . 09 /12 


87 04 /06 and 87 .09 12 


135 . Parts of shups , boats and fioaung strucia ) 


73 30 , 84 65 and 
89 01/03 to 89 05 


W 01 to 90 . 28 


136 . Parts of optical, photography , Prottoz:au ilk bela lingurulto , nedi al and surgica < $?** in 

and apparatus. 
137. Parts, including watch movemeni« »f the following artilles : 

Clock and watch of all types , tipit or day recording apparatus , apparatus with clean or patch move 
ments or with synchronous motor, for measur,ng , Touarding or otherwise indicating intervall of tuine , 
time switches witb clock or watch movement of seven the ylicbrdous motor 


1 


02 01/15 


198 . Parts , components and accessorie , os gramcpilones , doli ing inachines and other sound recorders aod 

reproducers including record players in I tipe ducky, wity without wind invans; television image 
and sound recorders and reproducers, magnetic 


139 . Parts , coinpoo¢nts and 

turo . 


m0NC 


furniture Inviuda di 


svuosi 


tai, 01 dic . or fotonary UI 4. 


94 . 01/04 


140 Parts, components of 104 


Tour * 5000 100 


97 01/08 
98 01 /02 


nh 


1 


141. Bottons and button moolus , JX Con nky a des del 1978 , wudhi 

(slido fastenu9) and press- Study ; blan saad parte a $ 61. ticles 


nip -deners , zio - firterer 


306 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I- Sec . 1] 


ANNEXURB IT TO APPRNDLX 19 


Lut of pamiablo Hems of Impori 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Raw material for 

import . 


Intermediate product for 

export production . 


14 . Rofined Gelatina 


Hmpty Gelatiac Capsalon , 


(1) 


(2) 


1. Raw Wool 


Wool Top. / voollon 

worsted fabrios 


13. Para Nitro Phenyl Paracetamol. 
16 . Lauryl Alcohol, Caus - Sodium Lauryl leathor 
stio Soda. 

Sulphate . 


2 . Mulberry Raw Silk 


100 % Mulberry Silk Fab 

rics of filature /reeled 
yarn in the warp a 
well as weft, other than 
dupion yarn . 


17. Aoflino On , Cyanuric Optical Whitening Agout 

Chlorido, Diethanola - for making detergent 
mino, Para Nitro 
Tolvone, 


18 . Mothanol, 

Acid 


101 


7. Dimethyl Terepthalato 

(DMT), Monoothylono 
Glycol 


Polyoster Fibro / filament 

Abro . 


Bormio Pontaerythritoi 

making Painte. 


4 . Dimethyl Terepiha - Polyester Fllacient yard , 

lato (DMT), Toro 
Pthallo Add ( TPA ), 
Mono Bthylene Gly 
col, Titanlum Dioxida 
(all gradex ). 


19 . Lauryl Alcobol, Tr - Sodium Lauryl sulphato. 
othanolamino , 

Triethanolamine Learyl 
Sulphato for malag 
Shampoo and South 
Pasto . 


29 . Phonol, Mothspol 


Phonol formaldehyde 
moulding pordon for 
mpakng Plastiu Bitctm . 
al Awoworlar . 


$ . Nylon Fllamont Yumi Dobricu mudo of Nylon 

Polyoster Pllamont Filament Yard / Poly 
Yard . 

offer Filament Yard . 


6. Caprolactuco 


Nylon Fllament Yarn . 
Acrylio Yarn , 


7. Acrylic fibro . 


21. Polyol, Isocynato Polyurethano Form 
22. Mothanol, Wood Pulp Urea Formaldehydo 

Moulding Powdor. 
23 . Banzono 

Anllloo, O .N . O.B ., Nit 

robeazono. 
24, Tolucao 

P .N . T . (Para Nitro 

Tolucio). 


8 . Blectrolytic tlo platu . 


O , T . S . Cans /Vlogeley 

Cado. 


29 . Napthalone 


T Bando 


9 . Kraft paper and paper Cartons , printod or dot. 

board other than Ivory Mulo - wall paper sact 
board . 


Synthotto 

Agontr. 


10 . High densløy/ Low 

sity Polyethylone 
Moulding Powder . 


Articlor of LDPBA 

HDPE lo any form 


26. Bota - Naphthol Tobias Acid , 
27. Ammonia and Motha - DMA (Dimothylamino ) 

MMA (Mopomethf 
lamino) 


aol 


11 . Polypropylonu inould . Articio inado of poly 
ing powder 

propyleno in any form 


Hydra oboukeus 


28 . Dychlone 
29 . Copper Scrap 


12 . PVG Rcolus, Plastial 

wors and Stabilison . 


Coppor Ovyoblonis 

Toghnical 


PVC pompound /PVC 

products fooluding 
PVC leather cloth 
ased 10 fabrioation 
Industry , anoo industry 


Dimethyl antive 
Bobooyl Alcohol 


30 . Methnol/Aollloo 
91, Bobonio Add and /or 

Behepic Methyl Buter. 
12. Palo Stoars and / 

Palo Acid on 


13. Stainles * for url 

Site ] Shesi / S147SA 
(1011 nugretici 


Chile Kolled 

SM Stu 
preku 


ow # 
y # # 


lawsuitamb 


भारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 


[4119 12 - 03 1] 
- - - - - 


307 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - 
ANNEXURI 


10 APRINDI 


W 


Colin 


- 


- 


- 


Sl. Raw mtaeriu for 
No import 


Intermodiate product for 
export production 

(3 ) 
- - 


SI, Raw material for 
No. import 
- 

- - - - - 


Intermediate product for 

export production 


(3 ) 


33 . P . N . T , (Para Nitro 

Toluenc). 


Diamino Stilbone Disul 

phonic Acid 


39 . (a ) Soling materials ) 

in shoot form in 
cluding sole leather 


(D ) Wells in continu 

Ous length of cut 
pieces in leather 
and lo synthetic 
material 


34 . Nitrobenzene 


Metanilic Acid 


( c ) Heel core in plus 

tic , wood or syn 
thotic material, 


35. Aniline 


Sulphanilic Acid Diethyl 

Aniline . 


36 . (a ) losole Material in ) 

shcot and roll 
form including 
leather 


(d ) Veneer for cover 

ing of heels in i Unut soles 
leather and PVC 
coated material 
lo shoet or cut 
form 


Josoles. 


(6 ) Reinforcement in 

Abro plastio of 
uoated cardboard 
In roll or obost 
form . 


(0 ) Heel Tips and top 

litto tu loather and 
syathetio matorial 
or in combination 


P 


(1 ) Adboalve . 


37. (a ) Counter materlal 

in roll or sheet 
form including 
leather . 


( ) Scrows, natia or 

fittings for fixing 
the hoel ups or top 
jifts . 


Counter* 


Plautlu 1 


# 0 (a ) Mouido 

Block 


( b ) Synthetic material 

in sboet form 
for counter 


th ) Set of Huge 


( 0 ) Thinubila 


Plantic Lumix 


Toc Pufis 


38 . Synthetic material in 

roll or sheet form for 
Too Puffs , 


(d ) Muled sheet full 

Bottom plating 


{o ) Sorcato ) Nails 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


308 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


] PART I- SEC . 1 ] 


NONNELL 


ANNUXURE III TU APENDIX 19 . 


Copy of Ministry of Finance , Department of 
Revenue , Notification No . 210 / 82 -Cuatoms data 


( a ) the description , quantity and valot Dhe 

raw materials and components allowed 
to be imported under the said licence . 


(b ) the description and quantity of ran 

inaterials and components allowed to 
Le imported duty - free ; and 


( c ) the descriptiou and quantity of gourch 

to be manufactured out of, or withs , 
the imported quaterials 


G . S .R . 560 ( B ) - In exercise of the powo 
conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 5 of 6 
Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962 ) , the Centras 

rivernment, beins satsbed that it is gecessary in die 
public interest so to do , hereby exempts raw materials 
and components required for the manufacture of goods 
to be supplied to International Development 
Association or International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development or Bilateral or Multilateral aided 
projects or Oil and Natural Gas Commission or Oil 
India Ltd . when imported into India , from the whola 
of the duty of customs leviablo thereon which is 
specified in the First Schedule to the Customs Tarif 
Act, 1975 (51 of 1975 ) and the whole of the 
additional duty leviable thereon under section 3 of the 
second mentioned Act subject to the following 
conditions , namely : 


( 3 ) that tie importer executes a bond in such 

form and for such sub as may be specified 
by the said licensing authority binding, 
himself ta (altill the obligations and 
conditions stipulated in thiæ notification and 
to pay on demand , an amoun qual to the 
duty leviable on the said rew materials and 
components s arc pot proved to the 
satisfaction of the said licensing authority to 
Jave been used for the aforesaid purpose 

ana 
( 4 ) that the importer produces evidence to the 

batisfaction of the said liccusing authority , 
tot (h purpose oi discharging ho liability 
in respect of customs duty as well as for 
discharging the obligations against the said 


( 1 ) that the importer bas been granted necessary 

import licenco or release order on the 
concerned canalisisg agen y by the ticket 
gurhority as specified in tive Impest ( t OrICAS 
Order , 1955, for the lusport Of 

I 
P & W materials and coinponents for 
isrecaid purpose : 


( 2 ) that the import licence contain : 

following endorsements inter alia : 


tree 


2 . This notification shali be in force upto and 
inclusive of the 10th day of September, 1987, 


[ ATTI - 1] 


भारत का राजपदा : असाधारण 


309 


I 


TS 


S 


L . - -. 


_ - - - - - - = 


- = - = - = 


= 


- - Morm . Teen 


ANNEXURE IV TO APPENDIX 19 


Jorisdiction of regional Ucensing authorities. 


Jt . CCI& E . 
Bombay 


Jt. CCI& C . 
Madras , 


Maharashtra , Gujarat, Madhya 
Pradesh , Union Territories of 
Goa , Danan , Diu and Dadra 
and Nager Haveli. 
Tamil Nadu , Kerala , Karnataka , 
Andhra Pradesh , Union Terri 
tories of Pondicherry , Karaikal, 
Mahe and Yanam and Laksha 
deep . 


Jt. CCI & E , 
Calcutta . 


West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa , 
Assam , Meghalaya , Sikkim , 
Nagaland , Arunachal Pradesh , 
Manipur , Tripura , Mizoram 
and Union Territory of 
Andaman & Nicobar Islands. 
Haryana , Punjab , Uttar 
Pradesh , Jammu & Kashmir , 
Himachal Pradesh , Rajasthan , 
and Union Territories of 
Chandigarh and Delhi. 


Jt. CCI& E 
(CLA ), 
New Delhi. 


310 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


( PART I- Sec . 1] 


ANEXURBY I APPENDIX 


- 


- 


No. 


tu tho followlog type of care the Adruno Llconglog Committee has already approvod Input/output more and the applat 
of the parties whon vor nicelyod for the nnt of advenou loodoo ero oloared on tho basis of these normi 

- - - - - - 

- - 
Dovoription of the Baport Produk 

Description of raw material Qty . of Qty . Oty . 

Bsport Allowed lowed 
produot for with daty 
Import emption 

banatt 
Κει. . Και, 


TURUL 


VV 


L 


. 


0 .94 


0 . 


0 . 04 
1 .00 
1 .04 


1 . 00 
1 .01 


1 , 38 
028 


0 30 


1 . 10 
1 . 19 
1, 11 
1 . 350 
1 . 800 
1. 598 


1 . 19 
1 , 11 
1 , 300 
1 . 400 
1 . 301 


1 


1 , 462 


1. 397 


1. Cutrinlard Pipon Tube 

Hot Botlod ogrbon stool aboota/utripal 
platouloods ( otba tan ng arbor 
itool 

Zlac . 
. Bamiau nuoltabeu. 

Boamlow bars/blllots /bloom , 
3 Bluob Pipa /tuba laoluduse Prooklon Tubos . 

Hot rolled carbon stool shoots /strips/platca 

polls (other than high carbou stool) 
4 . 100 % Mulberry . 8B fabric /andoups (otho Mulbery raw Silk of any Grado 
thao those made of Dupun ). 

(other than duplon yara ) 
100 % Mubory duplop silk fabric 

Mulberry duplon yarn 
d . Mulberry mixed silk fabrica /moudo-00x /90 Cmaot contla / Mulberry Ray Silk ofany gruda 
lng maloly Daplon Yanı , 

(other than Duplop Yard ) 

(1 ) Duplop YATI , 
1. Noh SK fabrici /idade- pr/ root . 

Noul Yara . 
8 . Eppo 30k fabrica /mado-upalermo 

Spor Slik Yard . 
9. Artiolor of Lolory /woliyara comde of 100 % wod . Mobal Tops 

Scoprod Mobair . 
10 . Articles of Hosiery /Koftwaan mado of 100 % wool, (a ) Raw wool (Morino type ) MPD 

59 mm and bolow of MFF 24 

microns and below 
(b ) Raw wool (Shetland type) MFL 

60 mm and above of MFF bot 

woon 24 and 28 microos. 
11 . Artholos of Bosfory / Knitwear 1084 of 1097 001. Woollon Yaro . 
12 . Wontad yara . 

BAO Wool. 
13 . Wool Topy . 

Lay Wool, 
14 . Pabdos/obavli made of 100 % Wool. 

Any Would 
19. Fabrlon and Roglory made from 100 manmadn dlm tem1 Pila aucht Yoro . 

raro /tartorio garo . 
Fabrice naopagitia com of Yun spor from a parte MAD-mado Fibros 

Abros . 
11. Poropun out of Madona abrow . 

MA- ordo fibra 
18. Acryllo KAJIAN pada ogt of 100 % Aonglo . 

Acryllo Fihrer . 
19 . Aoryllo Ealtyofri made out of 100 % Acrylio . 

Acrylla Yarn . 
20 . Sillo Carpets. 

Spon SILE Yarn . 
21. Brap artware /Bram Olegs 

Bran sorap . 
12 , Ardclou made of plastion (otboy fun PVC ). 

Rolovagt plantion ray materiale, 
21. Bigld PVC pipo 

PVC real /gradulot 
14. Plodblu PVC 

PVC rouid /gra galor. 
20 . Garages, L. her goods, Erevol punto, ito 

zp Partenar 
20 . Mbula unhote /pro-14001 CNI 

* * Blant o tratta 


1 . 120 
1 . 239 


1 . 211 


1 . 150 
1 , 363 
1 . 175 


1 . 11 
1 . 300 
1 . 400 


1, 126 ure 
1 . 100 1. 62€ 

3.26 2. 11 
3 1. 150 

1. 180 1.14 

1. 03 1 . 03 
1 1 , 04 
1 1 .09 1. 04 
10. 00 

Detto Not Noita Not 
Netto Not Butto X 


retorno 
to the 
Lotryto . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


(NTTI- 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र प्रसाधारण 


311 


ANNEXUPI 


) API NDIX 14 .. Tentoalul 


- 


- 


- 


- 


w 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


* T 


GAYLKEDEH , Travel Gouvise . 


Auttoos/Sop & Proys khstenon /Stude/ 
cuftriake , 


Netto 
Not 


Not 


28 , 


M . S. Baru. 


MS. Billot. 


104 


103 


R # # patroloum Cyto 


Active Ingrodiodi. 


29 
30 

1 . 
12 . 


con carbida , 
fubletnica puulos. 
Drug formulatlons lite dytops, Injections, 
Opthulmic lens 


I 30 
11.03 

1 1 10 
100 Nax. 110 N 


20 
103 

1. 10 
110 NOH. 


Aftfvo logredient 


Rough blanks 


5 %, (a) Steel Ale of High Carbon Steel 

Stel illos of Alloy steel 


High Curbon Styc 
Alloy steel 


14. 


0 . .3 . Canaldingoley can . 


Electrolytic tin plato . 


1 1,13 1,15 
1 1. 13 113 

1.19 113 
100 NOK. 100 Nos . 100 Nos. 
I MWOO 988 Kgs. 988 KW 
blader 


. Jams/Je!ly ctc , packed witbo . 1. S de logeloy cak 

Atainlem atool fofolympus bladen 


O . T.S . Cana /dingeley CAD 
Swinien sheolstrip 


* 


11 . 


Prefy core blat . 


Cold roller 4 del nu ! 


38 


Tyre 


Hit Wir 


1 Million 976 Kgg . 936 Ko 
Huder 

1 . 03 k 03 
200 2 00 


U ) ELO Carbua Wiro rode 
(H ) Load , 


39 , 


Riny , ud and Tangor Auseinblle 


1 . 80 
M . T . 


1 . 30 


MT 


Electrolytic Prima quality Tlo Plato . 1 M . T . 

of Ring 
& lid 
(oxoluding 

Tagger ) 
Filectrolytic Pino quality Tin Phd . 1M . T 


40 . Ann Aulono (buton) copila, 


1 .23 


MT. 


MT 


Rectanguini top Mtd with crew neck A bandle and 
ho tot 


1 .20 


1 , 10 


MI 


MT 


I M . T . 
(Ode tot 
of Top 
AK 
Botion ) 


* , 


Tyree Tabe 
6 ) Tyres with Nyloo tyro Cord/Tyres with Rayon Tyr. 

cord . 


( ) Natusiti iubbor /gyottuatic rubber . 100 Kgs. 33 Kgl. 
( II) Carbun blact 

100 Kgs. 23 Kgs 
( 11 ) Nylon /Rayon (rolovaut ltom ) 100 Kgs. 13 Kga . 
( IN) Bond Wire. 

100 R 4K s. 
( ) Pigmonts /Chemicals, the fol- 100 kg 

loying 


53 kg 
23 Kuu 
13 kg 

4 Kgs. 


2 . 00 


2 00 


(1) Rubber Chomicals (Apple 

oxddonts, Acclerator, Tc 
tardens and Populacra ), 


( Impart of Antioxidants how 
cvor , shall not occod 1 Kg. for 
cagh 2 Kgs . of Rubber Chemi 
cals allowed .) 


(7 ) Zdr, Oxide 


2 .00 


200 


- -- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


312 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I- - Sec . 1] 


ÍNNELKÉ V 


, ALPENLAY 


. 


Cr ." 


2 


FARER 


----- -- -- 


7 . 8 


7 . 8 


* * -scila 1 ***** 
P ILASIC 
Mirrorygter Lipa # , * 

o XX , ok om sad 
softeners apbo , $49 
acid , solvents. Plasticizers , 
synthetic resins , bonding/ 
coupling agents , activators 
and fillers , dip chemicals , 
mould release agents, tacki 
fiers and catalysts and 
syloff. 


(4 ) Resorcinol 


0 .2 


0. 2 


(01 Butyl :k , the 


cycle ribes 


« 


Vatural rubber Cvol tyres 


( ) Butyr rubber 
(1 ) Corbun black . 
(1) Naturicubber 
(1 ) Synthetic rubber 
fi! ) Carbon black 


100 Kgs . $3 Kgs. 
100 Kgs . 30 Kgs. 
100 Kgs. 26 Kgs. 
100 Kg4 , ? Kgs. 
100 Kg . 5 kgs. 


93 Kg 
30kgs 
26 Kgs 
7 Kgs. 
5 Kgs . 


(d ) Butylcycle tuhes 


!!) Curhon blac? 
(14 ) Butyl rubber 


100 Kgs. 31 Kg 31 Kgs. 
100 Kgr. S1 Kgs . $ 1 Kgs. 
100 Kgs. 6 .5 Kgs. 6.5 Kgs. 
100 Kgs. 71 Kgs. 71 Kgs. 


( 6) Naturel rubbor dobro 


(1) Carbon black 


(1 ) Natural rubber 


NOTE - - Against the oxport of Tubs , covered by Sub - Sarials , (d ) and (@ ) above , ons sal of valve for each tube shall also be allowed 

but its weight will be ignored for purpose of disterminiog the not weight of the tubes to be exported . 


43 . Aluminium Piston-, exported is fully machined condition 


s ) Aluminium 


I MT of 
Pistoo , 


1279 . 00 


Kgs . 


1279 . 00 

Kgs . 
12 , 00 
Kgs . 


As Cupper 


12 .00 
Kgs. 
12 . 00 


D) Nicki 


12 . 00 
Kgs. 


Kgs . 


(ip) Magbeslum 


18 . 00 


Kgs . 


Kgs . 


(x1 zlicos 


, 162 . 00 

Kgs . 


162 . 00 

Kgs. 


14 


lolot/exha ust valves 


Valves Stolberg 


I MI 


1 . 4 MT 1 . 4 MT 


Syothetic Content of 


43 


Shoddy/Woollen blankets and blanketing cloth , 


Synthetic varka 


1 . 06 


1 . 06 
Kgs. 


46 . 


(6 ) Aluniofam . 


1 .01 


Aluminium conductors steel reinforced (ACSR ) and All 
Aluminium conductors (AAC ) 


gs. 


(1 ) High carbon steel ytre rod 


1 KB. 


1 .03 


1 . 01 
Kgs. 
1 . 03 
Kgs. 
1 . 04 


Kgs . 


1 .04 


Kgs . 


47 . 


Particle Board and Fibre Board 


Wood 


1 Tonne 


2 Cu . 
mtrs . 


2 Cu . 
mtrs. 


48 . 


Fornituro component io knockod down condition 


Wood 


1 Kg. 


1 . 45 


Kgs. 


Kgs . 


[ 1977 1 -- 111 


भारत का राजपत्र : मसाधारण 


313 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


inn 


ANNEXURE V TO APPENDIX 19 - CONTK . 


(2 ) 


(3) 


- - 


- - 


49 


Hand carrod papels adj bandloraft ; pade ol wood 


Wood 


1 Kg. 


1 . 00 


1 . 60 
Kgs. 


Kgs . 


). 


Plywood 


Wood 


I cu. 
mtr . 


2 . 3 Cu . 2 . 3 
mts Cu mto , 


01. 


Commercial Plywood on imm basin 


Wood 


1 


1, 60 
8 . 


2. Prozeo marine products packod lo white card board othor Wait Card Bourd oor than lycry 
thap Ivory board . 

board . 


AK 
02 " ) 


$ 9. Promo marino products packod io kranı paper. 


Enn papou 


2 . 3643 


1.100 
(wt. of 
Kraft Paper 
only ) 


54 . Frozen Marine Products packed in polytheno bags ] 


LDPR 


1. 05 


1. 05 


(Wt. of 
polytheno 
bags only ) 


1 . 25 


1 . 13 


1 . 10 


1 . 10 


35. Ivory articles . 
56 . Pig Iron Products 
97. Itoms manufacturod out ofGP Sheets . 
88. Itoms manufactured out of tio plato primo quality . 
39. German Silver scrap art warca . 
60 . Man -made toxtile oards Vec Bolts. 


Uomanufactured Ivory 
Pig Iron 
GP Shoets. 
Tin plato primo quality, 
Gorman Silver scrap . 
1. Rayon /Polyester /Nylon (Textilo ) 


1 . 05 
1 . 05 


1 . 05 
1.05 
1 .01 


10 . 00 
Kgs. 
40 . 00 


2 . Natural /Synthotic Rubbor. 


Kgs. 


3 . Carbon Black . 


1 . 01 
100 Kgs. 10 .00 

Kg3 . 
100 Kgs. 40.00 

Kgs. 
100 K , 29 . 00 

Kgs. 
100 Kgs . 1 . 00 

K & 
100 Kg . 2 . 20 

Kgs. 


4 . Sulphur. 


29. 00 
Kgg. 
1 . 00 

Kg. 
2 . 20 


3. Zinc Oxido . 


1. 60 


6 . Rubber chemicals such as anti 

oxidents, accelerators , Peptizors/ 
rotarders , 


Kgs . 
1 . 60 
Kgs. 


Kys . 
(Import ( Import ) 
of anti of anti 
oxidont oxidant 
Bhould obould 
not 

not 
oxcood oxocod 
0 . 80 Kg.) 0 . 80 Kg.) 
5 . 20 5 . 20 

Kgs. 


100 Kgs. 


K 


. 


7. Other miscellaneous choricals 

such as Stearic acid , synthetic 
wax, resin , Plasticizor , magnesium 

oxide . 
8 . Jackoting fabrto . 


100 Kg . 


41. Gonts Jackou . 


* * * Fabric to be used in tho garment . 


I 


16 .00 16 00 

Kgs . Kgs . 
2 . 25 Mtry 2 . 25 mtrs 
(out-sido ) (outside) 
110 Cm , 110 Cm 
(Width ) (widtb ) 


43. Ladlo Jackoby. 


2 .00 min 2 .00 ms 
( outsido ) (outside ) 
110 Cm 110 Coas 
(width ) ( width ) 


-- 


- - - - 


- 


58 GI/85 — 21. 


314 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART --- SECI, 1 ] 


ANNEXURE V TO APPENDIX 19 – Contd . 


(5 ) 


63. Long Coat (Gents /Ledios ) 


3 .65 mtr 3 ,65 mtru 
( outside) (outsido ) 
110 Cmg 110 Cms 
(width ) (width ) 


64. Ladies Drossa . 


-do 


3 .65 mtrs 3 .65 mtrs 
( outside ) (outside) 
110 CINA 110 cm 
(width ) (width ). 


65, Gonts Shirts . 


2 .10 mtrs 2 . 10 mtr . 
(outsido ) (outsido 
90 Cmg 90 Cms 
(width ) (width ) 


66 . Ladies Shirts 


-do 


2 . 00 Mts 2 .00 Mtrs 
(outsido ) (outside ) 
90 Cms 90 Cmg 
(width ) (widtb ) 


67. Blous 


do 


1 . 35 Mtrs 1. 35 Mtrs 
( outsido ) ( outside) 
110 Cms 110 Cm : 
(width ) (width ) 


68. Sweat Shirts , 


69 . Children s Sweat Shirts 


1. 35 Mtrs 1 35 Mtro 
(outside) (outside ) 
110 Cms 110 Cma 
(width ) (width ) 
0 . 90 Mtrs 0 90 Mtro 
( outaide (outside 
110 mg 10 cm 
(width ) (width ) 


do 


VO , Jean 


- do 


1. 75 Mtrs 1. 79 Mtrs 
(outsido) (outside ) 
110 Cms 110 Cms 
(width ) (width ) 


11 . Ladies Skire 


on . 


2 . 00 Mtrs 2 .00 Mtrs 
(outsido) (outsido ) 
90 Cms 90 Cms 
(width ) (width ) 
1. 25 Mtrs 1 . 25 More 
(outsido ) (outside ) 
135 Cms 135 Cmy 
(width ) (width ) 


12 . Trousers 


73. Inner Lioing for vests 


dor 


0 .75 Mtrs (1 75 Mtrs 
(outsido) outside ) 
110 Cms 110 Cong 
(width ) ( width ) 


14 . Toner Lining for Jackats , 


- do . 


1. 25 Mors 1. 25 Mtrs 
(outsido ) ( outsido) 
110 Cmns 110 Cms 
(width ) (width ) 


13. Ladies Night Wears . 


2.45 Mtrs 2 .45 Mtrs 
(outsido) (outside) 
110 Cms 110 Cmg 
(widtb ) (width ) 


2 . 25 Mtrs 2 . 25 Mtr , 
(outside ) ( outsido ) 
150 Cms 130 Cms 
(width ) (width ) 


do 


1 . 25 Mtrs 1 . 29 Mu 
( outside) ( outsido) 
250 cm 250 Cms 
(width ) (width ) 


[ Tot 1 


] 


T 


T 


TTTTH WATOTTUT 


315 


hrown 


ANERE 


U 


APPUNDIA 15 - Conck 


63) 


PN . LONGO 


6 . 35 1 
foutside ! 
* 10 * 


2 35 Mtrx 
(outside ) 
110 Cms 


19 


# dr 107 


118 


O ATA 
out10 


OM 
outuda 


width 


80 . Leather Shoe uppers 


1. Stamping fou 
2 . Synthetic Baker ( Thermofler 


per pair 


1 


inch 
0 .023 
g . m 

sq m , 
159 m . 


4 inch 
0 . 023 
sa in 
4 sq. m 
4 sq m . 


3 Laminated foam 

Artificial fur lining 


11 pairs 


81. Football No 5 


Fippe PU combue I fortni 
mater 


I Nos 


0 . 17 0 . 17 
Lin ar M Lirar M 


82 . Football No 5 


4 Nos 


1 sq m 


1 sq m . 


83 Tea Bags 


Burlter piper 


1 Kg (tea 104 kg. 105 kgs. 
hះ ។ 
empty ) 


84 . Acrylic Knitwears containing malny crvec fibres 


Acrylic Fibres 


1 Kg. 


1.25 
Kgs. 


1. 20 


Kgs. 


89. 100 % Polyester ( Carbonised ) fobris man factured out of 

pun yarn 


Polyester Fibre . 


1 Kg 


1 . 547 
Kgs . 


1 . 143 
Kgs. 


86 . Polyester /Cotton blended fabrics manufactured out of 

spun rn (for 1 kg of polyester content wypoit d : 


Polyester Fibre . 


1 Kg. 


1 . 561 
Kgs. 


1 . 211 
Kgs. 


87. Polyester /Cotton blended spun yarp (for 1 kg . Polvestur 

content exported ) 


fyfsester Fibre 


Kgs 


1 . 127 
Kgs 


88 . 100 % Mulberry raw silk garirerts 


Mulberrı raw suik of any grade 

( other than dup on yain ). 


1 kg 


1 50 
Kgs. 


1 40 
Kgs . 


fa3tis hope od ne, watts 
prepaylcn or polyesteret 


" 


Hobi 


& * 


11c 


1 


9 


* * jatte net wat 

h3rácie ist should t * V 
# * * Consufuntion for lining , loter 
Note ( ) in the city ? 


8 Wed 17 


, mav leren 3 


am het on w 


w O 438 bn gis . 


then 


h 11 be against 


NOTE 


In this is an Ao 


ra 


&tuset 


po 


Dirndt111 Kgs 1c lumn 6 shall 


** 


NOH ( 3 ) no minimum value addriod 1 eqrired shall he iui 


(1) Particle Board and Fibre Buard 
( 11) Fuio tuo comp » Lots ir krakcd down 09 * ** * , 
(III ) W don bood wditud puu , mis dirt 


into 


15 * 


But I ( 4 ) xtures thc iten : raw wol spurnt lu wolt mo 3 Tv . Wilder som 


mowneys 10 , 


316 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I SEC. 1) 


(Para 22 ? Of Chapter LV ) 
REGISTRATION OF EXPORT CONTRACTS 


T 


Kt 

1 


A - - SCOPB 

1. A contract is concluded after an offer is w 
Anub - 515 de agosto de 
document ! ) m us * set 

the people that and let you are getting 
and accepınca 28 sell a thi T icals 

(i ) Names and addens" of the 

cuyer , 
) Desuloti ne tikai test the the best buwie Cox 


The more on the ea1CW Hiation clause relating to 
fan s 

based on ixed para 
meters spelt out in !he contract itself and not 
suoinct to any negotiation after signing of the 
^ tu 

nanerer should not relato 
to any export incentives 


(d 


i t wnici vreed 


- 


op de 441 vix 


NOTES 


! 


* DUL, of clause 

khk with 
vemht 1979 


( d ) above 
effect from 


NOTE III 


i 


osebi 


be 


pro- 


, * * 


5 +14 


NOTE ( 2 ) : bonito AFEVICP by a 


n 


othing moru , 


vymeneguJut ! 


* 


mat 
che non 


from 

ll 


promises 

* so gut 


Tepsisin . 
esiin tiper mor 





(21 It is cia ifiea at it a contract is regis. 

tered on the bas s of the c.i.f, value and 
theit is a clau »c in the registered con 

Herry van win the value of 
pe care 

conta kot mige freight 
* qui fine and the resnltant in 

v vine of goods is actually 
* W * E thio con 11t1on of the above 

* gipin ste * protection as admissible 
H o me Schery Registration of 
" 3 * to th 

The change in 
e is on valsts will began intimat : d to the 
Rink * * wor de the change occurs , 
WittWMS it not possible to register 
url hange pigaz the Bank inocerned 

Vi 40 min . of *nch change , 


the first chur (vel vulputate takes the 

pie ji hp 43 $* 2 for the struggles non pauperem 
mrar " is 


2 . Unleas coherwis , propiaeri isu inis Appendix , (a ) 
10 contract, which provides for re -negotiation of 
price / value wil he iegistered . ind (h ) contracts sale 
ready registered where the price is re -negotiated will 
cease to h ath - haus - fi * Yrime v 


3 . Contracts of the nature coverca ou ( ) and ( b ) 

pare 941 ) Prefnpodemo lo ha ort, the CC 
tione , mas ? *- } 

$13 
be finalisering that mayalso goto samo mal technimal con ul 
tations interpartes may be treated as contracts elisi. 
ble for recistration , if otherwie - ir arda 


If additional quantities of goods of the same 
* 2 * gun bir el content thing tracted for are anid , 8t 
1664 , nat > - Typ bre * . the relative transaction 
my go ne registeret fresh contract . However , I 
th buyer hast etained the option to (a ) buy specified 
Adition 1 0 * • tity and (b ) * xercise such option by a 
orciforit fata care se popren yn the original) contract itself , 
Cthat farm Reinr theme the benefit of protecttion 
Por the Additional aules go affected will be available 
- am the Mummo Irriginal) contract 


fo 


r 


the best 


at 


man sommer v 


isitant 


that a 


me porosin 


Karpatos para poneren yen 


en Whermor** reystered under the scheme 
( 9 + let autom 1 minitting variation in 
Holivar han til paction of benefit will be avail 
able to supplipa roade efter the crpiry of the original 
posling mengharapin timploter in the contract nise , 
por el are on * * * * * *ng *** 1.yang is covered by the 
* * * * * 

pothe jü shange in the form o 


contracted from a moltes persona 
value iq dnly T . oistern ! 1 
within 45 davs of such as change 


hanga spa : ric 
Pont varen termen 


HTT15 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र . असाधारण 


317 


- 


- 


- 


--- 


NNNN 


Lil 


i ter 


Ihr 


y. 


. 


the contract logistw . 
period in auch CAM # 
bank 


hat. CAISAO I SE 
cd * 60 c $ Creativity 


Iliwe 


C4 Credb 


a nd ( 0 ) 


glose yok . 


O llie atov uput, WuI apply Lly to contracts 
entered inlo ve ut aiter 1 ) 1979 and registered in 
accordance win the prescribed puxedore , 


uplo Sotte deri tont of intention und die pre 


( 3 ) In the case of contracts entered into during the 
period from 1st April, 1977 to 31st March , 1978 , or 
earlier and registerto in accordance with the prescribed 
procedure , the benefit of registration under the scheme 
would be available only in those cases where the 
exports 11 execution of the x - sevant contracts are made 
during the delivciv schedu.. as per the contract or 
upto 30th Juniwa 1983, waichever date is earlier, 
provided such benefits are otherwise admissible in 
terms of the import policy . The extended period 
from 1st January , 1982 o 30th Junc , 1983, will be 
available only in respect of whose subsisting contracts 
covered by this sub - para which have already been 
partly executed before 16 . December, 1981 and have 
continued to bo ciscuted duing the year 1982 . Tho 
cxtended pericd from int Jacuary , 1983 to 30th Juno , 
1983 shall be subject sa tre further condition that it 
will appit only to ( 03 . Contraste for which an 
irrevocable Leiter oi Canan besi upened before 
1st Quary 1983 by 1 aign oue in favour of 
he Farligi txporter B ITC where trevocable 
1.etter - Credit la tot establishes by the foreign 
buyer meio 4 ist lamary : $ 8 ? but the Indian exporter 
can ( 4 mal y light I bus aucutountary evidence 
that the ads BKAF I was a wh 0 .10ct over the 
perica , por edhe 14 E OLHA 106 Chiet controller 
o Import Exports , W Den shall be necessary 
before the protectiut cuclits Available to such 
register.com coatranda cuita 6c considered . Exports 
made un usuance of the contacts covered under this 
sub -para , after 30th June , 1983 , shall cease to qualify 
tor protection available to registered contracts. 


premissibile same rate eligible to claim achenie , 


( 2 ) Wherowl 44 LED o uci i pouco 
does not contain any cause abour variation in delivery 
schedule , the protection of benetits wui be available 
to the supplies made after his expiry of the delivery 
schedule also , provided such extension in delivery 
schedule has been mutually agreed to between the 
buyer and the seller , and there is no change in other 
terms of the contract. The extension in delivery 
schedule in such cases should be registered with the 
bank within 60 days from the date of expiry of the 
delivery schedule originally stipulated in the contract. 
Where the extension in delivery schedule 1$ not settled 
between the buyer and the seller and is not conse 
quently registered with the bank within the stipulated 
period of 60 days, the protection of benefits against 
cxports made during such extended delivery period 
will require prior approval of who whick Cooler 
of Imports & Exports, New Del 

( 3 ) The provisions in this viagraph will be subject 
to conditions prescribed in pars 8 ( 1 ) below 

7. Against contracta registered under the schenic , 
a Registered Exporter will be eligiblo to claim import 
replenishment at the same fat , and for the same items 
ks were premissible on the day Quatract, under the 
relevant import policy to) . Rom . * DOITETE . 
the rate / items of repicuisbuku , se refiere a pozity 
in force on the dar - of 00341 ** * ( 200m from 
those on the date of cxport finns clairs 2 laneti 
all on either date only 1.4 ., NH * * s5tc and ten 
must relate to the same date . It is clarified that prom 
tection against regjisor : I quo** * * * ly with : - qui. 
to the rate of lanpon replenish FG * * * 24.14 
Import allowed as replenishment in columo ind 
against the relevant export product in Appendix 11 
No such protection is available for import of any other 
items which may be allowed to be imported against 
REP licences by way of flexibility or otherwise . It 
is further clarified that these provisions will not apply 
to the import licences having specific export obligations 
such as Advance licences , Special Imprest licences , 
Import Export Pass book and Imprest licencer . 

8 . ( 1 ) The benefite 0 registration under the 
scheme will be available for the execution of the 
concerned contract only up to the time- Imita # ek 
down below , and from tho date ( * correct :- + 
( 4 ) Turnkey Projects the deina 

ta paragraph 212 the 
Import-Export Policy , 1985- 88 
and exporte of Capital Garda 
of thc Aaturo spacidad de 
Aunexure I heros 


or 


PROCED eget to 
9 . * ) Every CONTA ! 10 D uligible to the benefits 
wi Luis Sclcit , & bc sot gistered with an authori 

iegler Trim * * * * # ge (Scheduled Bank ) 
within * 5 car from the ce nf contract, it is the dato 
CD which b . 3ST 2061ed by the concluding 


However , it al , kte , it 16 noticed by 
the bank met de ene prolog mothority that the contract 
* * * regisé » * d inadvertently , this may result in the 
Icgistration being cancelled , after giving an opportu 
mw to the marintere xm in concerned . 


* store 


- er . so oud produco 
the work tegiktortag ihe contract , the original 


(6 ) Exports of agincering 

goods other than those 
covered by ( a ) above 

plo hice 


abstract of the sontract in the proforma appearing in 
the Annexure I herero , Frank will scrutinise the 
fccuments with rcfcrence to the scope of the scheme, 
to contained in the above parak , aod then allocate 


* ) . 


318 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART I - Sec . 1] 


wa 


APPENDIX 20 Conia . 


a proper serial number thereto and make the following 
radorsement on both the original and the copies " vo 

This contract has beca registered with us and 
untered in our records under Registration No . . . 
date . The date of Contracı bas been verifice 

C 
signature 
and 
date 

alongwith oficial designatwn f s ifle Signalery ) 
Stamp of the bank ," 

11 . ine bank will return the original contract wild 
Juw copy iu të Registerau Charlie Hiiu (orwaru u 
wpy Dvarig the eudou senituli vi nagistralvil by it, 
duwtiy to (0€ Licensind uthui ns within whose juris 
diCuti wc Kegistes CXpuiwwe is situulet, wodie J 
days of the date of registration . One CO ut h . 
contract will be retained by tot bank for O Who 
purposes . The Kegistered Exportet may 25€ 
separately send to the licensing authority concerned 
within 30 days oi che dale of legisiracop of the 
contracı, 016 copy of the same Juliaci bching 
endorsement of registration made the son of the bank . 

ac CLSWM dului will consJul -00 udeu the 
basis of any of the (wum alous, whether from the 
bank or the Registciud Expulsar having been 1 aceived 
within the stipulated period of 30 days 


o uda , mud ( c ) supplies Oldde in India to projects 
financed under multilateral or bilaterial external 
motoUstance , th . Otects of legeuauon will be avawable 

On the dute Ol submission of the tender, provided 
* Dame is 01) price vulation . Where there is a prica 
variation at the ume of acv - ptance of the tender , 
* it . I deüis vf regis * tion w10 to available as co the 
ate of acceptance . 

16 . lt, After the submussion of the tender and 
Facure is accepunce , the terms are further pegotiated 
moterpartes and the ( final) contract is based on the 

iti do wyn India Suller in the course of such 
1 . guttullut the revist red Expliwi will still be 
entitled to the benefit of the scheme as on the date of 
the tender if there is no price increase ; if there is a 

to wielov , fuam decut de odiu shall be takeo kini 
tib uruvidi jal . , Ni macicu the Custried copy of the 
Odsud u Wine training with the Lycusay 
135 beynt boncerqud . 

17 . It sm 1 . 0ino Exporter enters into a contract 
bith a Folo Goveismert dg foreiga public ututy 
for wnicb the " Wait do (wider , the date of the part 
cular offer made and ultimately accepted by the 
foreign buyer will be the crucial date under the scheme. 
on our be st for the wea Olyut de ofier should be 

vdged t hat Iliketo 16 DSLR Sathority 
concerca 

da. \ . at the Under par . 10 where # revised offe : 
* www . rede mon a case under para 17 where the offer 
m Made with a leader in the first ins ance ili, 

tied NY of the oldes o be lodged with the 
or Adeline subway concerned shall be sent, ia doublo 

lcd coi cader Rega PC AD , within 1 day 
scom ile cat Citi ubuissink }* * the overseas party . 
Any change fron e offer yo made on a second or 

ied po 200 hodil he lodged likewise, 
2 tsk them quer Fuc will o pour for the Indiso pisang 
* * CFI ( tante base di natale Magistration No . 

i , I DA JIH 7 Judges with the licentie 

b . Aby wooden to 0018C with the oversea 
buyer die R iciel Lobouid register 
dus ollador att han sumat dealer in foreign 

xchange to pet par ADXC . Independently , be 
Inouid add t€ ! Casiok, Anthority , COLCCIDO , 
For w * 11 00 : the earl y logistration meao by 

op tot along with the relevant Registration 
* pe chelar enttied Op . of (be ( ipal) cootre 

by ! Wok by Romo Port AD withi.. 
pi Rere of fou un atract by the * ** 
to mod dealer in fortia SCHEREC 


n 


12 . in hic event us canceilaqui a no wala . 
the Registacu Exports sikk. Amis ! back 
urouro ion tre original rege ratol had been 
made about the fac : ot subi @ ocwiduud within 15 
qays thereof. The Bank will , in turn immediately 
send intimation to that effect to the licensing author 
Iity concerned . 


13 Ine schemc excars to gook wucht may pa 
e covered or classitied cUTICE. * y lindor te luuk 
Policy for Registci ed Exporterk The poiter mas 
seek their proper classification quien prinsi facin in 
conclusion of the plans a 


14 , lo claim e Ochetin va registadon , ho 
Registered Exporter wust ensure that * Bere 
attested invoice , required to produce . sicer por 
connected import polov and procedures . In this 
( further ) attestation of the bank to the effect that the 
Cxports effected under the di1 iuvo 1973 b mado 
against such registered contract, quoting the relevant 
bank Registration No. and date thereof clearly . The 
provisions made in para 216 of this policy pertaining 
to exports through third party wils als apply a them 
. ases provided thr (elevant invulup bears the aitcuts 
tion of the bank as laid down . 


C - SPECIAL PROVISIONS 

15 . In the case of ( a ) public tender contracts with 
foreign Governments or foreiga public atilities , 
(b ) contracts pertaining to IBRD / IDA aided projects 


(la I be isccastra fbonn cuacerned , * ** Op . 
the p * « ***DC vf the pathorixect representative ( 7 the 

Digited Exp par, the 3 * * * containing the oner 
* *DCi d ad generation for rith the terms the 
* 

D ia 1 33 * * llation betwee phen 
her from the 

quartam of pple MITY 
to tercei , ths ex * * ** REA pletenin taka # * * 


[ AM - OT 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : साधारण 


319 


S 


APPENDLX 20Contd . 


does not appear in the tender and / or the (main ) con 
tract, the benefit of this scheme will still be available 
to the sub - contractor, provided ( i) the ofler made by 
him to and the sub - contract entered into with the 
main contractor are scat to the licensing authority 
concerned and ( ii ) the Indian sub - contractor pro 
duces ovidence novoptable to tho licenszog authority 
concerned about his role in the main contract. 


20 . (1 ) The above provisions will also be applicable 
Jo a lodian Exporter who is sub- contractor 
to a foreign party , whose teader has been accepted 
by the overseas buyer , provided that ( a ) the name of 
Hala Tunai Expull appear in the order and tho 

U LUUL JCI, and ( b ) the description , quunuly und 
htuut vi goous / serviue to be provided by the Indian 

Therese are iiver in the 3411 document ( 8 ) . The 
Wuce the scheme wi be kiven to the successiu 
Indian Exporter in such cases from the date on which 
he made the relevant oiter to the foreign contractor. 
The proceduro laid down in Para 18 above about the 
lodging of offers with the licensing authority concerned 
weis apply muiuis munus w much cases . Chene 
provisions will also apply to " deemed exports 
covered by para 190 (b ) , ( c ), (f ) and (1) of this 
policy . 

10 ) If the Indian exporter , in a case of the above 
naturt, has dificulty in securing a copy of the main 
contract, he may register, in the prescribed manner, 
Wilt tine authorised Jealer in foreign exchange , the 
document relating to his own sub - contract with the 
main couructor, wgether with a certificate from the 
mlab Optractor to the offect ( 14 the name of the 
sub -contractor appeared in the tender as well as the 
main contract . 

( ü ) it in a case of the value referred to in 
or ( ii ) above , the name of the Indian sub - contractor 


otractor 
fondo a contra o E-shorions 
will alsname 
of and 


21. The facility of registration of contracts will 
also be available to supplies to ONGC , GAIL and 
Oil India Limited covered by para 190 (i ) of the 
policy . Such supplice cven made by an Indian sub 
contractor to a foreign party or Indian party , which 
has entered into a contract with ONGC , GAIL or Oil 
India Limited for their off -shore / on - shore exploration , 
drilling and production operations will also be eligible 
for the said facility prcvided ( a ) the name of the 
sub - contractor appears in the main contract, and 
(b ) the description , quantity and value of goods to 
be provided by the sub - contractor are given in the 
main contract. 


22. The facility of registration of contracts will 
also be available to those who export their products 
through STC , MMTC , Projects and Equipments 
Corporation or any other public sector agency ( 
back -to -back arrangements . 


320 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - 

ANNEXURA I TO APPENDIX 20 


[PART I - Sec . 1 ] 
- 


- - - - 


- 


- - - - 


Llst of export producto clasified as Capital Goods for purposes of protection ander the scheme for ropletrador 

of oxport contractu 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


TEP 


W W 


ARU 


Bxport Product 


$ 1. No. 


of 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Policy 
(ITC 
Policy 
for 
Registered 
Exporters) 


A .64 
A .64 


A .64 


A 64 


1. Sugar mill machinery . . 
2 . Toxtile millmachinery 
3 . Jnto mill machinery 
4 . Oll mill machinery . 

, 
$ . Tea machinery . . . . 

Paper and Pulp machinery 
1 Wood working machinery 
8. Portillzor plant and equipment 
9. Vator and sowego treatment plant. . 
10 . Cement Plants . . . . 
11 . Food processing plants 

. 


3 
-- - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - 
22. Miping machinery 
23. Rubber machinery . . 4 ,64 
24 . Complete dairy equipmont 
25. Solvent extraction Plants . , , A .64 
26 . Industrial boilers and boiler, for 

power generation . . . . A .64 
27. Industrial switch boards and control 

pagels . . . . . . A .28 
28 . Bloctric motors above 20 HP . A . 22 
29 . Telecommunication equipment Inclo 

ding telephone and telegraph exchanges A .35 
30 . Diesel Engines above 20 H . P . , A . 88 
31. Pover station structures , hydraullo 

structures like pon stocks; gatos and 
gearings ; sub - station and railway 
electrification structures and techno 
logical structures . . . . 

A . 2011 
82 . Industrial refrigeration and aircondi 

tloning equipment . . 
33 . Industrial fumo extraction , dust col. 

lection , humidification and vontila 

tion equipment . 
34. Mochoolcal handling oqulpmont 
35. Hoavy duty pampe and compresson . A .64 
36. Rallvay vagops and coachut , , A . 15 
37. Ships, boats and launches, steamori 

and trewlors 


4 . 64 


4 .64 


A ,64 


A .64 


A .64 


12 Rower generation equipmcat including 

turbinga , alternators, gonorators 


A .22 


18 . Pover medium and distribution trans 

formeri , . 


- 


1 . 22 


14 . High tension switch gear and control 

1087 


. 


. 


A . 78 


A . 22 


11 . Completo high tcuilon and extra high 

tordion and power trenampilon toer A7( 11 ) 


38. Cravicr tractors , shovels, CACBVBLOI!, 

louders, dumport and other carta 
tovlog equipment . , 


(Dolates ) 
4 . 14 


18 . FUTeu llac carne communication 

olpren i 
11. Compote patporan for plcatre robin 

utation 


Pire forladat100 machlady 

- 
# 6. Road and construotloo maoblpery 

Socludin road rollori, contocoy. 
batoh plante , atong orasbors, roaurote 
plzert 2011 vtorotort , 

, 


* * Machino tcois including metal cuttion: 

metal pruning and tool roop machinc 


A . 60 


9 . Indusulal turdacos inepding diputats 
per 

# . * 
4 . Arbustos amant plant oud Limonene om bilen 
. Ohnalul und pidu " ni LACE . 
nery . . . . 

A .64 


( ) Pumor cybico ( with copper + 13 

Anotor) , 
4 ) Power cablox ( w Blolan 

8000an ) 
4 116 . 
4 . WAJAL & 


(HT 


1) 


भारत का राजपत्र : भसाधारण 


321 


ANNEXURE IS TO APPENDIX 20 


Proform 


of thetract of the Export Contract 


1 , Nam vf 1b kegistered upon 
2 . Registration No. & date of issue by bo Export Promotion Authority 

Promotion Council/Commodity Board . . . . . 


tport 


-LUAVE 


Terms of paymont 


Date 


of contract 


Overseas buyer s name Description of pro - Value of proluct( s) Dowily of delivery 
with whom contract duco(s ) to be exportod . to be exported period 
bas boon exccuted . 
- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - 

3 


-- - - - - - - 


Vm 


- - - 


- - - - - 


Y 


Signatura aid stamp of the Constabod 
Attorney of the Registered Bxportor. 


322 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1- SEC . 1 ] 


VAL 


APPENDIX 21 
( Chapter XIV ) 


DUTY FREE IMPORTS AGAINST REP LICENCES 


They will also not be subject to 
condition . 


" Actual Userky 


1. There is a scheme to provide duty free imports of 

raw material against REP licences issued on the 
exports of specified products . In this connection , 
a copy of the Department of Revenue Customs 
Notification dated 12th April , 1985 is reproduced 
in Annexure I to this Appendix . 


6 . Applications for grant of REP licences under this 

scheme should be made to the licensing authorities 
concerned . At the top of the application , the 
words " Application under Duty Fret Import 
Scheme" should be written , 


2 . The export products and against each of them the 

items allowed to be imported , the quantity of each 
item allowed and the import replenishment per 
centage in terms of value, are indicated in Annexue 
II to this Appendix . 


7 . Import licences issued under the scheme will be 

subject 1 botb value and quantity a limiting 
lacton 


3 . The scheme will apply to REP licences issued on 

exports made from 12 - 4 - 1985 against which the 
exporter has neither claimed the benefit of duty 
exemption as per Appendix 19 nor duty -drawback . 


4 . At the ame of export, the exporter shali wake a 

declaration in the relevant shipping bill that he 
would claim REP licence against the exports 
covered by the shipping bill under Duty Free 
Scheme as per Appendix 21 of Import- Export 
Policy , 1985 88 , and shall not claim duty draw 
back on the same exports. A copy of customs 
authenticated shipping bill for export promotion 
shall be furnished with the import application for 
REP licences alongwith other prescribed documents. 
The Shipping Bill shall have the full signature and 
name of the Customs Officer with his designation 
and date ( including month and year ) . In respect 
of exports made by post parcel, the exporter shall 
produce customs attested invoice or any other 
export document including drawback application , 
wherever available , duly attersted by customs and 
containing the aforesaid declaration of the exporter 
for the purpose of claiming duty free REP licence 
under this scheme. 


8 . Where item (s ) of import permitted in Annexure II 

of this Appendix is / are permissible against the 
relevant export product in columns 4 and 5 of 
Appendix 17 , the unutilised value , if any , avail 
able in the " duty -free ” REP licence , after making 
duty free imports , may be utilised by importing 
items permissible under columns 4 and 5 against the 
relevant export product on payment of customs 
duty . For this purpose , the licensing authority 
will endorse the “ duty - free " REP licence as 
under : 

" Withm 1th overall value, the licence wil also 
be valid for import of items permitted in 
columns 4 and 5 against Sl. No. . . . . in 
Appendix 197 of Import- Export Policy , 

1985 - 88 on payment of customs duty " . 
9 . Where items of import permitted it Annexuro 1 

of this Appendix are other than those in Appen 
dices 2 , 3 and 5 the exporter will be eligible 
to the normal REP entitlement 3ppearing la 
Appendix 17 in addition to the duty - free " X 
entitlement. Thercfore , while issuing duty - freo 
REP licence , the licensing authority will also 
include therein , the iterat and the valget af 
admissible under Appendix 17 , with be couc . 
tions that (a ) the import of these items will 
on payment of customs duty and b ) the valu 
limits given in the licence for duty - paid and duts 
free materials will not be interchangeable with 
cach other . 


5 . KEP liccnces issued under the scheme will be mar 

ked " Duty Free Import Replenishment” . Such 
licences will be transferable like other REP licences . 


( TTT 


1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


323 


mo 


ANNEXURL 1 TO APPENDI 21 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA . 


i 


ByRON 


G 


A 


(INDIRECT TAXES DIVISION ) 


New Delbi, tho 12th April , 1085 

CUSTOMS NOTIFICATION 
G .S . R . No . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -secuon ( 1 ) of Section 25 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962 ) , 
the Central Government, being satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to do , hereby exempts the materials specified in the 
Schedule annexed hereto when imported into India from the whole of the duty of Customs leviable thereon which is specified in the First 
Schedule to the Customs Tarifſ Act, 1975 (51 of 1975 ) and the whole of the additional duty leviable thereon under section 3 of the said 
Act : 


Provided that the importer shall produce an import replenishment licerice issued in terms of Appendix 21 of the Import Policy for 
the period commencing on the 1st day of April , 1985 and ending with the 31st day of March , 1986 under the Impo : ts ( Control) Order 
1955 , containing the following endorserawits by the author iy issuing such licence, namely - 


(a ) Duty Free imports against Replenishment Licence as per Appendix 21 of the Import Policy April 1985 - March 1988 ; 
(6 ) The quantity and the value of the said materials, allowed to be imported under the said licence ; ana 
( c) The desc . iption of the exported product against which Import of the said materials would be allowed under the said licence . 


THE SCHEDULE 
(1) Stainless Steel Shects or Strips or Colls (Non -Magnetic ). 
(2) Stainless Steel Sheets or Strips or bars and rode, 
(3) Hoi Rolled Carbon Stoel Sheets or Strips or Places or Coils ( other tban bigh Carbon Steel ) 
(4) Zinc . 


(5 ) Spun Silk yara . 
(0 ) Nos Yaro (Silk ). 


(9 ) Bas wool or wool tops or # colo .16 


8 ) Rar wool 48x and below . 


(9 ) Brass Scrap . 
( 10 ) Plastic Raw Material (other than P . V C .) 
(11) High Carbun Stoel/ Alloy Steel. 
( 12 ) Mulberry raw silk of all gradon (othorte dyplou yarm ). 
(13) Mulberry duplon yarn . 
( 14) Syatbetic Waste . 
(15 ) Seamless Steel Dant /Billets /Blooms 


(10) Alumlolum Ingots/Aluminium Rode. 
(17) Higb Carbon Stool Wiro Rodi. 
(18 ) Nylon Fllamont yarn 
(19 ) Polyester blament yars 


324 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SEC . 1] 


ANNEXURE II TO APPENDIX 21 


Scbur of Daty Fru laport against Import Roplenishment Licence 


Se on Deceiption of tho oport producte 


Itom 
No. 


Description of tho export product 


Rolovrat Description of Itoms allowod for 
SL. No. of import duty frog 
App . 11 


Dereito scalowed for everyone 


Quantity of 
itoms allow 
od for 
Import duty 


the programa e nome 


Import Quantity of 
Replenish - relevant 
montoxport 
porcentago product 


tree 


3 


5 


1. Galvanised Stool Pipos /Tubos . 


A . 70 ) 


70 % 


1 KS 


( Hot Rollod Carbon Stoel Shocts/ 0 . 9765 Kg . ) 

Strips /Coils (other than High 

Carbop Stool). 
(1 ) Złno . 

0 . 07 Kg. 


70 % 


1 Kg. 


2 . Stool Pipes and Tubos (Black ) Includ . A . F(D) 

log procision Tubes . 


Hot Rolled Carbon Steel Shoots/ 1 . 05 Kgs. 

Strips/ Colls (other than High 
Carbon Stool). 


3 . Seamless Steel Tubos . 


4 .7(1) 


Seamless Bars /B ] llots / Blooms. 


1 . 05 Kgg . 


70 % 


1 Kg. 


4. Galvanised Wiro and Shoots (whothor AMIN 

corrugatod or not). 


Zlog. 


0 . 04 K 


10 % 


1 KG 


3. Brass fittings . 


A . 11 


Braн сaр. 


1 . 01 Kgs. 


30 % 


1 Kg. 


6 . Aluminium 

cod (ACSR ). 


Conductors Stool Rolofor. A . 24 (1) 


(1) Aluminium Ingots /Aluminium 

rods. 
(II ) High Carbon Stool Wire Rods . 
( ) Zlno . 


1 . 01 Kgs. ) 
1. 01 Kgs. 
1 . 04 Kgs. ) 


50 % 


1 Kg. 


7 . AU Aluminium Conductors (AAC ) 


A .24(0) 


Aluminjum Ingots /Aluminlom rodo. 


1. 01 ko . 


60 % 


1 Kg. 


8 . (a ) Steel Alog (of high carbon atool). 

(6 ) Stool files (of alloy stool). 


A . 31 (UN ) 
A .31 (111) 


High Carbon Steal. 
Alloy stool. 


1. 15 Kp . 
1. 13 Kgs. 


40 % 1 KG 
40 % 1 kg. 


tbar 


9. Articles made of plastics (other 

P . V . C .). 


C . 11.3 


Rolovant plastic raw material (othor 

than P . V . C .). 


1.03 Kg 


40 % 1 km 


10. Brass artwaro . 


H . 1 


Bron sono 


1. 02 Kgs. 


40 % 


1 Kg. 


11. Shoddy 

olotb . 


woollen 


Blapkota /Blankoting 6 .4 


( ) Synthetic Ring Spun Yam Hard 

Wasto . 
( ) Blendod Ring Spun Yarn Hard 

Wasto . 
(III ) Batanglod Filament Towg 

(Drawd ) contalpiog tows of 
lapth of not more than two 
miton . 


1 . 06 Kou . 


30 % ik . 


12 . Hand Knottcd /Woved woollen Carpotr .3 ( 51 ) 


RAW pool of 36 microus and above 0 . 30 Kg. 


30 % 


1 K 


E .TU) 


1 . 30 KW . 


30 % 1 Ks. 


13 . ( ) Natural Suk fabrlos /madoups /gar 

monts containing 100 % Natural SDE 
by volght. 


dpan SUE /Noll/Molberry raw alk / 
Duplon ( depending upon tho tom 
sotually wd). 


. (H ) 


0 . 9 Kg. 


20 % 


1 s . 


( 4 ) Natural Silk fabrics /madoop / ar- 

monts including omabrlodorod com 
talning less than 100 % but not lau 
than 50 % datural dik by wolght . 


pa . Sot Noll /Molberty raw at 
Duplon . (dopondlog upon the item 
Lotually wud). 


( ) 


0 . 45 KA. 


10 % 1Lg. 


(1 ) Natural Silk fabria /madoop 

ments including embroidered OOD 
talong lous than 50 % but not lima 
than 20 % datural plk by wolgbt. 


Epun NL /Noll /Malborry naw Ulk ) 

Duplop . (doponding upon the 
Item actually und). 


[ HTTİ 


1] 


भारत का राणपत : पसाधारण 


325 


ANNEXURB II TO APPENDIX 21 - Concio. 


12 


14 . SIIk Carpets . 

K .& D Spuo SIk Yan . 
13 . ( ) Nylon filament yarp fabrics, om - K - 11 or Nylon Filamont Yard actually 

broiderod fabrics , quilted fabrics K - 13 or ugod in the export product, 
quilled blankets, hosiery , knit woar and 0 -6 
made -up articles , 


1.13 Kgs. 
1 . 10 Kgs. 


40 % 
40 % 


1 Kg. 
1 K6. 


-do - 


1 . 10 Kg . 


Polyester Filamont Yard Actually 

maod in the osport product 


40 % 


(1 ) Polyestor filament yarn fabrica , on 

broidered fabrics , hosiery , kolt 
wear and mado -up articles. 


1 Kg. 


1 . 10 Kga . 


40 % 


1 Kg. 


Nylon / Polyester Filament Yard 

actually used in tho oxport pro 
duot . 


(HI) Fabrics, ombroldorod fabrics, hosiery , 

knit woar and made -up articles of 
mixed yarn of Nylon Alament and 

Polyester filament . 
16 . Articles of Hosiery /knitwear made wholly 0 . 2 

of wool. 
17. Stainless Steel Utensils, sinks and Q . 1 

hospital ware (Non -Magnetla). 
18 . Stainless Steel Forks, 

Q . 1 


40 % 
40 % 
30 % 


1 Kg 
1 Kg. 
1 Kg. 


( ) Raw Wool or 

1. 25 Kgs. 
( 11 ) Woollon yarn . 

1 . 10 Kgs. 
Stainless Steel Strips/ Shoots /Coils 1. 15 Kgs . 

(Non -Magnetic ). 
Stainless Steel Shoots /Strips/ Bars 1.60 Kgs. 

and rods. 
Stainless Steel Sheets /Strips /Bars 1.30 Kgs. 

and rods . 


50 % 1 K8. 


19 . Stainless Steel Spoong/Knives. 


Q . 1 


50 % 


1 K8. 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


NOTES 1 ( 1) In the case of export products covered by Sl. Nos . 9 and 11 to 19 (both Inclusive ) above , the quantities of Items allo 

wed to be imported duty free in column(s ) will be calculated on the actual 1 Kg, nét content of the materials in column 
4 above ,used in the manufacture of tho exported products . For this purpose , preshipment inspection ceritficate /test 
cortificato from the statutory agencies concerned will have to be produced in addition to the prescribed documents. 


(2) Wherover the item raw wool appears in column 4 , it will cover scoured wool also . 


326 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I._ SEC . 1] 


nur 


. 


MDL 


LIELU 


SAVAS 


APPENDIX 22 
(Chapter XVIII) 

ANNBXURE I 
JEWELL 

BUYER 


B 


YTTE 


11H 


& A ARA 


R111 


Export of gold ornaments and articles ( other than 
coins ) as defined in the Gold (Control) Act, 1968 , 
will alone be allowed under the Scheme. Such 
ornaments and articles when studded will also be 
permitted to be exported under the Scheme. The 
items for export should be made of gold of purity 
not less than 0 .5833 fineness which corresponds to 
14 carats . 
2 . The Scheme will apply to the export orders 
received by Handicrafts and Handlooms Export 
Corporation , New Delhi either directly or through 
their eligible associates . 


1). 111 . vocobis later of credit , or payment on cash 

Duery basis . or advance payments in foreigu 
* yn lange received through the authorised dealer 
(Bank ) . The documents should be negotiated through 
ao autoorised dealer in foreign exchange only . The 
c purt order should relate to the single buyer overseas 
withough it pay cover por than one item of export. 


6 . megoldane 
Wade 
Stras 
e Cons 
att 


intent 


the serence 
at the corporing 


6 . A minimum value added of 15 % over the valuc 
of the gold content will be insisted upon in respect of 
# 10sts made under the scheme. The value added 
Ti se calculated with reference to the value of the 
po Jatent in the items exporteu , at the price notific 
1 Hardicrafts and Handlooms Export Corporation , 

de Dellii ss the price of gold , at the beginning of 
dos pronto Fcr cxample , if the f.o . b . value of the 
i i CXpreted is Rs. 100 the value of the goist 
calculated at the notified price should be Rs. 87 

v i he c . 80 of stud led items, the total valur 
( O ld and other items, namely, stones , gems , 
Ha l le * precious moctals if any , used in the 
gyon snufacture of the items exported , should be Rx 87 


hoandicraft the item referesme. Ton in rece value 


3 . The following categories of persons holding 
valid dealer s licence under the Gold Control law will 
only be allowed to operate as eligible associates of 
Handicrafts and Handlooms Expuit Corporation for 
the purpose of the scheme : 

Registere Bipor* * * * 7103 I Remote your 
tion Certificati vo do their br the 
and Jewellery typy Promotion ( A * 


the 587 


( ii ) Co - operative Societies of 

smiths ; and 


certified 


gold 


( V ) Corporatio os 4 oed om ontk bv ( le 

pent holding Export House Cari Acar , 
issued by the Chief Coafrolex of mp. * * 
# nd Fxports . Nav . Delhi. 


tot 11* 400 antak atthe samefez (ulkcí 
atdet den ) mavie n der the L206 vill vot tu 
* **211, 201 . 2017 Liv Excurts of gold 

at they are oai nd an 4 . when stuu. Jel , & under the 
* bema wil : however , be eligible for import replenish 
ang sa mayai 811bject to the cardition that the net value added 
will not be less than 15 % as provided in para 6 above 
For th .. purpyo o determiniog F . O . B . valuc , tho 
Alle 0 gold and other precious metals as shown in 

. "Usten att med voice , shall be occluded 
Tot Ost replenishni u the same iteins and to the 
N 2204 extent 99 allowest against SI NO P . 4 in Appendix 
* * will he admissible . 


of The Gem and Jewellery Brp * From 
Council will keep the particulars of the identification 
marks, if any . of its Registered Exporters under the 
Hall Marking Scheme of the Indian Stapdards 
Tnstitution . But it would not be obligatory on ir 
part of its Registered Exporters to follow the Hall 
Marking Scheme until further creery 


cope of the choma 


8 . The Handicrafts and Handlooms Export 
corporation of India Un New Delhi (HHEC ) has 
*y ** * nominated as the authority to operate the scheme, 
The corpor orders against which exports will be 
-" lowed will be tboxes are received directly by this 

* * or through their cligible Asgoriater, 


5 The Schorne prolvda for exIYOT . O gold cine 
ments and articles against gold supplied . fice of charge 
lo advence by the foreign buyer concerned this 
extent of the quantity of the gold used in the 
manufacture of the items to be exported . Export 
orders should , therefore , provide for the supply of 
gold , free of charge by the foreign buyer to the extent 
required . Such gold should be received , in any case , 
before the export of ornamcats or artirles is allowed 
Report prd : short * * Trile v Tren T T 
facturing and other costs involved , either by means 


raport of gold under the Scheme 
9 ( 1 ) . The imported gold shall be cleared through 
the customs authorities only by the said nominated 
atency ie , HHFC either on their own behalf where 
the expor ordura 4 tocclved by them or on behal 
of their eligible associates , whicre the export orders 


[ ATTE 


1 ] 


भारत का राजपन्न : प्रसाधारण 


327 


RU 


UVY WWW 

AL 


.LV 
. 


VELUHU 
4 . 

MTU 


NW 


. . 
www 


DRY 


UN 


have been ceceived through such associater . In the 
latter case , the exporter shall have to authorise the 
HHEC to act as its agent to file the Bill of Entry and 
clear the imported gold from the Customs as also to 
file the relevant Shipping Bill for making the corres 
ponding exports through the customs. 

( 2 ) The HHEC will also obtain a general permission 
from the Gold Control Administration for receiving the 
gold on import into Indis . 


14 . Where the export order is received by tho 
HHEC directly in its own name, the shipping bill for 
the relevant exports will be filed by the HHEC in its 
own name as required cnder the customs regulations . 
In cases where the export order has been received 
through the eligible associates of the HHEC , the 
shipping bill for the relevant exports will be filed in 
tóc name of HHEC on account of the concerned 
associates whose name and address will also appear 
on the shipping bill. Such shipping bills shall also 
contain an endorsement by HHĒC certifying that the 
export is being made against an order received through 
the concerned associate and registered with HHEC 
giving also the date on which it was registered with 
them and certifying that the gold for the execution 
of the export order, in question , was duly received 
from the foreign buyer and deposited in the Govern 
ment of India Mint on the date (to be specified ) . 
Before making the endorsement, the HHEC will satisfy 
itself about the quantity of gold used in the 
manufacture of items to be exported and the minimum 
prescribed value added . Such endorsements may be 
made only by the designated officers of HHEC whose 
signatures will be deposited with the Customs before 
hand for verification . 


10 . Import of pure gold under the scheme will be 
allowed by the Customs authorities to the designated 
agency i.e . HHEC on the basis of an exemption order, 
whether general or specific , issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India , for the purpose of the scheme In 
respect of each consignment of imported gold , 
HHEC will execute before clearance a bond with the 
customs authorities undertaking to export gold equi 
valent to the entire quantity of the imported gold as 
input in the finished gold jewellery or articles , within 
the period stipulated in the contract or within such 
further time as may be allowed by the Chief Controller 
of Imports and Exports , New Delhi, and to pay 
customs duty leviable on that quantity which is not 
proved to have been exported . In the case of export 
orders received by the eligible associates of the HHEC , 
it will be for the HHEC to secure corresponding 
guarantees from their such associates separately , to 
ensure compliance with contractual obligations, 


Bank .cot of eachute before cling to expoorted 
gold 


the so by the the Minty and be alonported 
bars oved by 


11 . The HAEC shall be required to deposit the 
Imported gold in Government of India Mint at 
Bombay or Calcutta either on the same day on which 
the gold is cleared through the customs or, at the 
Latest , by the following day , and to obtain a proper 
receipt from the Mint authorities. Since Mint facilities 
exist only at Bombay and Calcutta , the gold imported 
under this scheme should be allowed to be imported 
only at these two places . The imported gold will be 
converted by the Mint into standard bars of 995 
purity . The corresponding exports will be allowed by 
the customs authorities only on their satisfaction on 
the basis of the Mint receipt that the required quantity 
of gold used in the manufacture of the items sought 
to be exported, was received by the Government of 
India Mint 


15 . The shipping bill should , inter alia , contain 
the exporter s declaration about the weight and the 
purity of gold used in each item to be exported , and 
the f.o .b . value of the items to be exported , pame of 
the Custom House through which corresponding import 
of gold was effected , the Bill of Entry and the date 
of clearance of gold supplied by the foreign party . 
An extra copy of the shipping bill should also be 
furnished . However, in cases where shipments are 
made through a Custom House other than the Custom 
House through which the corresponding import 
of gold was effected , two extra copies of the Shipping 
Bill should be filed for being sent by the Custom 
House after shipment of the goods to the Custom 
House through which the corresponding import was 
made, for reference at the time of cancellation of the 
bond . ( If the purity of gold used is the same in 
respect of all or some of the items to be exported , the 
exporter may give the total weight of gold and the 
total value of such items as are of the same purity , 
instead of giving their details intemwise ). In the case 
of studded items. the shipping bill should show in 
addition to gold content all above , the description , 
weight /value of the stones / gems/ pearls used in their 
manufacture , as well as the weight /value of any other 
precious matels used for alloying gold . 


manute Cralue are content apointe bill show to the creation 


Export of gold ornamenti etc. under the Scheme 
12 . The articles to be exported under the scbenza 
will be manufactured out of the gold procured from 
the domestic market. After the exports have been 
made, and the gold content rised in the exported items 
verified , the HHEC will obtain the requisite quantity 
of gold from the Mint for being used as replenishment 
for the gold used in the items exported in the manner 
irlained soome tel om hie Apremtly 


16 . Each shipping bill as endorsed will be valid 
for exports made only through the customs house 
located at the place where the HHEC s office which 
made the endorsement is situated . It will be valid 
for shipment for period of seven days from the 
date on the ondorsement by HHEC , excluding, 
however she 4t on shich the endorsement was 

no 1 be aper* DOT be made within this 
period , the exporter should ile m fresh shipping bill 
No extension in the period of shipment will be allowed 


y 


te 


* 


MES 


* 


15 . Exports Auditi le Schonic wi be allowe oruy 
by air - treight and through the customs housek 23 


23 


328 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I - Sec . 1] 


- 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 22 - ( oncia . 


17 . At the time of export, the cxporter shall 
prosent to the concerned customs authority , along 
with the shipping Bill , three copies of the connected 
Invoices as well as other documents as may be required 
by the customs. Beforo allowing the export, the said 
authority will, inter alio :--- 

(1) do the necessary checks to verity that the 

weight and the purity of gold used in each 
item for export is as per the exporter s 

declaration in the said documents ; and 
( it ) utisfy itself that the export value (minus the 

cost of gold ) declarod by the exporter to in 
accordance with the Customs Act and the 

Foreign Exchange Regulations Act. 
18 . The weight and purity of the gold content of 
the items so passed for export will be verified by the 
customs authority on tho relevant shipping bills . The 
customs authority will also attest the connected 
invoices and return two copies of the shipping bill 
and the connected invoices- - -one copy to the person 
who presents the export documents and the other copy 
to the office of HHEC directly . 

19 . The exporter shall , within 15 days from the 
date of export. submit to the same office of HHEC 
which endorsed the shipping bill , an application in the 
prescribed form and magner for release of gold and 
attach thereto the customs attested invoice , customs 
authenticated shipping bill and the bank certificate 
in original evidencing the negotiation of docinents 
and the flight pumber by which the consignment was 
exported . The HHEC will, after verifying the 
documents , release the gold to the exporter to the 
oxtent of the gold used in the mxoufacture of the 
Jewellery exported as certified by the customs on the 
shipping bili 

20 . For the purpose of calculating the quantity 
of gold to be issued , the HHEC will multiply the 
weight of the gold content of the exported item , 
as certified by the Customs authority which allowed 
the export, by the following whichever i 
appropriato : 

( 1) Their caratago divided by 24 , 4 tho declara 

don is in carats ; or 


quantity of gold released against such exports. At 
the end of each quarter viz ., 30th June , 30th Septem 
ber, 31st December and 31st March , the HHEC shal! 
submit a report to the Reserve Bank of India , 
Ministry of Commerce, the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports and jurisdictional Collector of Central 
Excise or Customs, as the case may be , indicating the 
total quantity or gold inported , the total quantity of 
gold used in exports effected and the total qucntity of 
gold released as replenishment agalnst exports thus 
effected . In order to get a discharge of its obligations 
under the bond executed by it with the Customs 
authorities the HHEC will furnish to tho concerned 
Collector of Customs a statement indicating the BIH 
of Entry No. against which gold was imported for 
execution of the contract , date of importation , quantity 
of gold imported , number of each of the Shipping 
Bills against which corresponding shipments of 
ornaments / articles were made , description of the 
goods exported and the gold content in respect of each 
Shipping Bill as certified by the concerned customs 
authorities. Such applications for the cancellation of 
bond will have to be made immediately after the 
completion of the shipment of all the ornaments / 
articles to be exported against a particular contract or 
the expiry of the period of export stipulated in the 
relevant contract with the foreign supplier of gold , 
whichever is earlier. In cases where any of the 
shipments of ornaments /articles are made through a 
Custom House other than the one through which the 
corresponding import of gold was effected , the HHEC , 
with their application for cancellation of the bond , 
will also furnish copies of the Shipping Bills against 
which exports are effected through Custom House 
other than the one through which gold was imported . 
Further details of supplementary procedures, checks 
and instructions, it necessary , would be furnished by 
the Collector of Customs concerned . HHEC would , 
for this purpose , get in touch with the Collectors, 


23. Tho entiro transactions under the Scheme will 
ho ubject to all the provigion of the gold control 


24 . The following branches of HHEC will release 
menso gold in accordance with tho Achem . : 


(# ) The Agura o the neare mua 


( d ) Thelr Ancnoes Hi the doclaration Is In Anoncu . 

Tho figure of pure gold so calculated will bo 
rounded to the nearest 10th of a grammo. 
No allowance will be mucwod for any wastage . 


of pure eclaration 


( 1 ) The foncnt Manager HAEC of India , 

Ltd ., 11- A , Rouso Avenue Lane , Lok Kalyan 
Bhavan Nam Delhi-110702 . 


Founded 


( # ) Tho Branch Mapager , HHEC of Lidla L ., 

11th Floor, Nirmai Bulding , Nariman Polnt, 
Bombyty , 


( ) The Branch Manager . WHEC M India Ltd ., 

10th Moor , 6 / A Raja Subodh Mollick 


21. Whero tho export order wus secured directly 
by HHEC and the exports were made by there no their 
own , Khe quantity of gold usod It the items cxported 
will be maken by HHBC on its records for replenish 
mont after having satisfiod ftrct with respect to the 
quady to which It & ondtled 
Applicabuh w Sok Central Law 

22 . Tho HHEC shall maintain « complete ACCOXT 
consignment- wise of tho gold imported for exocoton 

each export order , the exporte eftected and the 


( iv ) The General Manager , HHEC of India Ltd ., 

Sudarshan Butidtag , 16 / 1, White Rond , 


329 


(MTT - - 


1] 


भारत का राजपन्न प्रसाधारण 


--- ---- - - 


= - 


- 


- - 


= 


- 


STI 


- - - 


= - 


= 


- 


= 


= = 


= - = - 


- = 


- - = 


mer 


APPENDLX 22 

ANNEXURE U 
SCHEME FOR EXPORT OF GOLD ORNAMENTS AND ARTICLES FOR SALE AT APPROVED 

EXHIBITIONS 


Under this Schemo, cxport of gold ornaments and 
articles (other than coins ) as defined in the Gold 
(Control) Act, 1968, will alono be allowed . The 
Items for export should be made of gold of purity not 
less than 0 . 5833 finencas which corresponds to 14 
arabs . 

2 . ( 1 ) The export will be made by HHEC or its 
associates . The eligible associates will be the follow 
ing categories of persons holding valid dealer s 
licence under the Gold Control Law : 

(1 ) Registered Exporters having valid Kogistre 

ton Cortificates issued to them by the Gem 

und Jewellery Export Promotion Council : 
( ii) Cooperative Societies of certified goldemiths ; 

add 
(LLI ) Corporation owned or controlled by Gov 

ernment holding Export Houso Certificates 
issued by the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Reports, Now Dolhi. 


before export is allowed . In respect of exhibitions 
organised by others (approved as per para 2 above ) , 
such bonds are to be executed by the organisers 
themselves. 

6 . A minimum value added of per cent over 
the value of the gold content will be insisted upon in 
respoct of tho goode exported and sold under the sche 
mo . The value added will be calculated with rufe 
tonce to the valuo of the gold content in the tome 
cxported and sold . For example , if the t. o .b . value 
of tho itom exported and sold k Rs. 100 , the value of 
gold to be replenished shall be Rs. 87 or less . In 
the case of studdod items, the total value of the gold 
and other items, namely , stones, gems, pearls and 
other precious metals, if any, used in the manufacturn 
of the item exported and sold shall be Rs. 87 or legt . 


exported 


lowed the core 


is approa 


( 2 ) Export will also be permitted by others if 
approved by Reserve Bank of India and the Ministry 
of Finance provided they hold valid dealers licenco 
under the Gold Control Law and RCMC issued by 
the Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council. 

3. Under this scheme, exports will be made on 
consignment basis for holding exhibitions with tho 
specific or gonoral approval of the Reserve Bank of 
India . The description of each item axported , its total 
weight /valuo , and the weight and purity of its gold 
content, shall be clearly given . In the case of stud 
ded items, in addition to gold content as above, 
the description /weight/ value of the stones / gems / pearls 
used to their manufacture , as well as the description 
Welght / value of any other procious metals used for 
Alloying gold rhall also be pvOD . 


7 . Purchase of gold as roplenishment will be made 
abroad with the assistance of tho Stato Bank of India 
of their duly authorised agent at the place where the 
cxhibition & held . It will bo оnsured that the price 
of gold paid to such that it does not at any time crodo 
the prescribed minimum value added of 15 per cent 
for thc jewellery oxported . For the purpose of cal 
culating the quantity of gold , the weight of the gold 
content of the exported item , as certified by the 
Customs authority which allowed the export, will be 
multiplied by the following whichever is appro 
priate : 
(1) Their caratage divided by 24 , if the decla 

ration is in carats ; or 
( ) Thoir Anonosa li tho declaration is in ino 

1.08 . The figure of pure gold so calculated 
will be roundod to the nearest 10th of 
gramme. No allowance will be allowod for 

any vastago . 
8 . The gold imported into India at replenishment 
by HHEC will be deposited with the Government of 
India Mint for subsequent release to eligible associates , 
The HHEC shall be required to deposit the importod 
gold in Government of India Mint at Bombay or 
Calcutta either on the same day on which the gold 
is cleared through the customs, or at the latest, by 
the following day , and to obtain a proper receipt from 
the Mint authorities. Since Mint facilities exist only 
at Bombay and Calcutta , the gold imported under this 
scheme should be allowed to ho Imported only at 
theas two placea . The lmported gold will bo convor 
ted by the Mint into standard bars of 995 purity 
The HHEC will obtain the requisite quantity of gold 
from the Mint for being aed u roplenghment for 
the gold used in the item exported and sold for the 
exhlhitions whromat 


4 . At the time of export, the custom authority will 
check to verify that the wolght and purity of gold 
usod in onch Itom for export is us per the exportor s 
declaration in the relevant shipping bill . 


5 Tho export ahall be subloct to tho condiumas 
that ( 1) the items exported which are not Bold rond 
Bball be remported into Indir withio 13 date of tho 
dove of the exhibition , and ( i ) in respect of the long 
kold abroad , the gold contant thoroof shall no Impor 
tod ai replenishment not later than one month of the 
close of the exhibition , The Handicrafts and Hand 
loom Export Corporation of India Limited shall exe 
cute a bond to this effect with the Customs Authority 


58 GT/85 – 22 . 


330 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - Sec . 1 ] 


- 


- 


ANNEXURB U TO APPENDIX 22 - -Concia 


9 . In the case of Registered Exporters other than 
HHEC and its associates, replenishment of gold , 
wherever admisslb ,e will be through the State Bank 
of India as per provisions in Annexure IT to this 
Appendix . For this purposo , a registered exporter 
( other than the HHEC and its associates ) need only 
submit the documents specified in para 10 below . 


10 . The following documonts will be submitted 
for claiming replenishment of gold against export 
of gold ornaments and articles sold at exhibitions 
abroad : 


11. Exports and sales of gold ornaments and articles 
( other than studded ) made under the scheme 
will not be eligible for any other incentive , except 
replenishment of gold to the extent as laid down in 
this scheme. Exports of gold ornaments and articles, 
when studded , made under this scheme, will how 
ever be eligible for import replenishment subject to 
the condition that the net value added will not be 
less than 15 % as provided in para 6 above. For the 
purpose of determining f.o .b , valuc , the value of 
gold and other precious metals as shown in the 
customs attested in voico, shall be excluded . Import 
replenishment of the same items to the same extent, 
asallowed against S .No. P 4 in Appendix 17 , will be 
admissible . 


( 1 ) Customs attosted invoice representing the 

exports made for the purposo of exhibition . 


(2 ) Certificate from (i) the HHEC in respoct of 

exhibitions conducted by them or ( ii ) Gem 
and Jewellery Export Promotion Council 
for exhibitions conducted by others indicat 
ing the particulars as per form prescribed 
in Appendix XVIII of the Hand Book certify 
ing, among others, that the payment against 
sales in exhibition /s has been repatriated to 
India and surrendered to the Indian Exchange 
Control, 


12. The HHEC will maintain complete record of 
oxports mado , goods sold abroad , goods re - importod 
and tho gold purchased abroad and imported into 
India . At tho ond of each exhibition , the HHBC shall 
Bubmit report to the Roserve Bank of India , tho 
Ministry of Commorco , the Chiot Controller of Im 
ports and exports und the Jurisdictional Collector of 
Central Exciso and Customs, giving complete account 
as aforesald . 


( 3 ) Bank certificate in the Form given in Annexure 

III to Appendix XIV - D of the Hand Book 
indicating the receipt of payment in foreign 
exchange. ( The time limit for submission of 
an application will be reckoned from the 
date of payment as shown in the bank certi 
ficato ). 


13. The Gold Control regulations will apply as 
appropriate . 


(4 ) Whoro an applicant is unable to produce bank 

certificate as the documents were not nego 
tiated through the bank , the licensing autho 
rity may accept the documents in ( 2 ) above 
if it is satisfied on the basis of other evidence 
that the payment for the goods in question 
has been received through authorised channels. 


14 . The HHEC will produce to the customs an 
thority concerned , the lettor in original or its certifiod 
copy, containing Government s approved to the hold 
ing of the exhibition concerned . In respect of exhi 
bitions organised other than through HHEC , the 
Organisers concerned will have to produce to the 
Customs authority concerned letter in original or a 
certified copy containing the approval of the Reserve 
Bank of India and the Ministry of Finance . 


( KI- UT1) 


भारत का राजपत्र प्रमाधारण 


331 


- - 


- 


10 


- 


E 


- - 


_ - - = 


- - 


- 11 


- . - -. 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - - - - - - - - 


- - - ww : 


= 


- 


T 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


APPENDLX 22 

ANNEXURK III 
GOLD JEWELLERY EXPORT PROMOTION 

AND REPLENISHMENT SCHEME 
Scope of the Schome 

In case of export cffected against buch orders 28 

are backed by eithor an irrevocable letter of credit 
Export of gold ornaments and articles ( other than 

of payment on cash -on -delivery basis, the exporter 
coin ) as defined in the Gold (Control) Act , 1968 

will havo to give an undertaking in writing agreeing 
will alono be allowed under the scheme . Such orph 

to refund the difference between the salo price of 
ments and articles when studded will also be permit 

gold released by the State Bank of India and its 
tod to be exported under tho schemo. The items for 

prevailing internal market price , if he fails to 10 
oxport should be made of gold of purity got less than 

patriate the export proccods in full or if the articles 
0 .5833 flneness which corresponds to 14 carats , Tho 

exported are rojovted or returnod to India . 
scheme has come into effect from 25th April 1984 . 
2 . The scheme will be confined to the following 

7 . A minimum value added of 15 % over the value 
categories of persons holding valid Dealer s Liconce of the pure gold content will be insisted upon in ros 
under the Gold Control Law : 

pect of the exports made under the scheme and for 

the purpose of replenishment of gold . The added 
( i) Registorod Exporters having valid Roglstra 

value will be calculated by relating the value of pure 
tion Certificates issued to thom by the Gem 

gold content in the jewellery exportod , at the price 
and Jewellery Export Promotion Council ; notified under para 5 above , as ruling on the date 
(ü ) Co-operative Societies of certified golde on which the relevant Shipping Bill is endorsed by 
miths; and 

the licensing authority under para 14 below , to the 

f.ob . price of the items to be exported . For example , 
( H ) Corporations owned or controlled by Gov if the f.ob. price is Rs. 100 / -, the value of pure 

ornment holding Export Houso Certificate gold should be Rs. 87 or less . In the case of 
issued by the Chief Controllor of Imports studded items, the total value of pure gold , stones or 
& Exports , Now Delhi. 

gems or pearls as well as other precious metals, if 
3. Membership of the Genn and Jowellery Export 

any, used in their manufacture, should be Rs. 87 

of loss . 
Promotion Council will not be pre - requisito condition 
for the category (1 ) above to participate in the 

8 . On furnishing (i) an undertaking as provided 
Scheme to begin with , but they should join the Coun 
cil within a period of 3 months from the dato of io paragraph 6 and ( ii ) tho declaration as provided 
first export . 

In paragraph 17 of the scheme that no reallgation of 
4 . The Gem and Jowellery Export Promotion Coun . foreign exchange against exports made under this 
cil will keep the particualrs of the identification marks, scheme is outstanding boyond a period of two months 
if any, of its memberg under the Hall Markdog Sche from the date of shipment, the release order issued 
mo of the Indian Standards Lastitution . But It would by the liconsing authority may be honoured by the 
not be obligatory on the part of its mombers to 
follow the Hall Marking Schomo until further orders . 

State Bank of India even prior to the realisation of 

the export proceeds in foreign exchange . 
5 . Tho sohome providou, for tho roplenishment of 
por gold to the oxtont of the quantity / value admis 

9. Exports under the scheme, shall be allowed only 
blo thereunder, against exports made in accordance by Air - freight and through the Customs House at 
with it . Governmont will notify separately , from Bombay , Calcutta /Madras /Delhi Jaipur. 
time to time, the placor and price at which the gold 
will be sold to the Release Order holders . Such ro 

10 . Exports of gold omaments and articles (Other 
plenishment will be arranged through the State Bank 

than studdod ) made under the scheme will not bo 
of India . 

eligible for any other incentive . Exports of gold 
6 . The scheme will bo Amited to exports efectos 

ornaments and articles , when studded , made under 
Against such orders as are backod by an trrevocable 

the scheme will , however, be eligible for import re 
lattor of credit or paymont on cash -on -dolivery basis 

plenishment subject to the condition that the act 
or advapoe payment in foreign oxchango received 

value added will not be loss than 15 % af provided 
through an authorised dealer (bonk ) . The documents 

In part 7 above. For the purpose of determining 
should bo ncgotiated through an authorised doaler 

f.o .b . value, the value of gold and other proclour 
la forelgn oxchange only . The export order should 

metals as shown in the Customs attested to.velce , 
relato to a single buyer overseas , although it may 

shall be excluded Import replenishment of the same 
oover more than ono Item of orpor 

items and to the same cxtent, as allowed against Si. 


- 


L 


I 


. 


_ - 


- 
- 


- 

- 


- - 
- 


- 


- 
- 


- 


- 


- 


opisalue Mood in about uld, inte 


332 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

[PART I - Sec . 11 
- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - 

ANNEXURE III TO APPENDIX 22 - Conid . 
No. P . 4 in Appendix 17, will be admissible . 

the Customs authority , on the relevant shipping bills . 
Mode of exports and its control 

The Customs authority will also attest tho connected 

lavoice and return two copies of the sbipping bill and 
11. Eligible exporters should apply for endorse 

the connected invoice to the exporter 
ment on the Shipping Bill , in the prescribed form and 
to the concerned licensing authority as per the enclo 

17 . The exporter sball , within 7 clear working days 
sure I hercto . The application should be supported 

after the exports have been made and without wait 
by a certified copy of the export order referred to in 

ing for the realisation of the sale proceeds in foreign 
para 7 above . Where the price contracted for is on 

exchange , submit to the same licensing authority as 
c .i. f. basis , the applicant shall also declare the esti 

that which endorsed the Shipping Bill, an application , 
matod f.ob. value thereof in the application for the 

in the prescribed form and manner , for the leave of a 
export . (For the purposo of replenishment of gold , 

Release Order, and attach thereto the Customs attest 
only the f.o . b , value will be taken into consideration ) . 

od invoice , the Customs authenticated Shipping Bill 
12 . The shipping bill should , inter alia , contain the 

and the Bank Cortificate , in original. Along with 

the application for issue of a Release Order , the ox 
exporter s declaration about the weight and the 

porter should also furnish a declaration , duly signed 
purity of gold used in each item to be exported , and 

by him , certifying that no realisation of foreign ox 
the f.o . b . value of the items to be exported . An extra 

change against exports made under this scheme is out 
copy of the Shipping Bill should also be ſurnished . 
( If the purity of gold used is the same in respect of 

standing beyond a period of two months from the date 

of shipment. The licensing authority , will, after vori 
all or some of the items to be exported , the exporter 

fying the documents, issue a Release Order so as to 
may give the total weight of gold and the total value 
of such items as are of the game purity instead of 

enable the exporter to secure the replenishment of the 
giving their details itemwise ) . In the case of studded 

puro gold - conteot of the items exported as above, it 

the application is otherwise in order . 
items, the shipping bill should show , in addition to 
the gold content as above , the description / weight/ 
value of the stones / gems / pearls used in their manu 18. No Release Order issued under the Scheme shall 
facture as well as the weight / value of any other pre be transferable and cach Release Order will be valid 
cious metal used for alloying the gold 

for a period of 15 days from the date of its issue . 
13. The licensing authority will , after satisfying 
itself about the minimum value added as set down 
in para 8 above, make an endorsement on the Ship 

19 . The Release Order will be expressed in terms 
ping Bill to permit export, if the application is other 

of gold of 0 .999 fineness and for a valuo determined 
wise in order , 

at the notifiod price as ruling on the date on which the 

relevant Shipping Bill was ondorsed by the licensing 
14 . Each Shipping Bill , as endorsed , will be valid authority . Both quantity and value shall be limiting 
for exports made only through the Customs House 

factors in the case of each Release Order. 
located at the place where the licensing office which 
made the endorsement is situated and for a period 
of seven days from the date of the endorsement, ex 

20 . For the purpose of calculating the quantity of 
cluding, however, the date on which the endorsoment 

pure gold to be set down in the Release Order , the 
was made. ( In the event of the oxporter being upable 

licensing authority will multiply the weight of the gold 
to cffect exports during the period of the said validity , 

content of the exported items, as certified by the Cus 
he may apply afresh ; no request for extension of vali 

toms authority which allowed the export , by the follow 
dity will be cotertained under the scheme ) , 

ing whichever is appropriate : 
15 . At the time of export, the exportar aball present 

(1) their caratage divided by 24 , if the declara 
to the concerned Customs authority, along with the 

tion is in caratt; or 
Shipping Bill , three copies of the connected invoice 
as well as such other documentation as may be requir 
od by the Customs. Before allowing the export, the 
said authority will inter- alia 

(U ) their fincness , if the declaration is in iino 

001 . 
(1) do the necessary checks to verity that the 
weight and the purity of gold used in cach 

No allowance will be made for any wastage and the 
Item for export arc as per the exporter s 

figure of pure gold so calculated will be rounded to 
declaration in the main documents and 

the nearest tenth of graume. 
(1 ) satisfy itself that the export value declared 
by the export is in accordance with the 

21. (l) La the case of "Moenakart " Itoms, a deduc 
Customs Act and the Foreign Exchango 

tion of 3 per cent will be made in the weight 
Regulations Act. 

of puro gold as calculated abovo for the par 
16 . The weight and the purity of the gold content 

pose of import replenishment under the 
of the iteme so passer for export vill bo vertbed by 

schemie 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[ 77 - ] भारत का राजपन्न . असाधारण 

333 
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - 

- - = - - = 
ANNEXURE III TO APPENDLX 22 — Contd . 
(b ) In the above cases, both quantity and value Branches of the State Bank of India at which gold will 
will continue to be limiting factors 

be sold 

26 . The following are the branches of the State 

Bank of India at which gold will be sold in « ccord . 
22 . The licensing authority will ondorse a copy of 

ance with this scheme :- -- 
the Release Order to the designated office of the 
State Bank of India located within the area of its own 

(i) The Chief Manager, 
jurisdiction , which is authorised to sell gold under the 

Overseas Branch , State Bank of India , 
scheme. 

P . B . No . 10006 , Bombay - 400 023 . 


(11) Tbc Chief Manager, 

Overseas Branch , State Bank ot India ; 
P . B . No 14 , Calcutta - 700 OU 


( ui) The Chil Manager , 

Overseas Branch , State Bank on India , 
23 , North Bench Rowl, 
Madra - - -000 001. 


23 . The sad desiguated office of the State Bank of 
India will sell the gold to the Release Order holder 
at the notitied price as ruling on the date of its sale , 
Where gold of purity less than 0 .999 is sold , the State 
Bank of India will be entitled to make decessary quan 
titative adjustment, but within the valuo limit of the 
connected Release Order . It will soll tho gold in 
multiples of 10 grammo only . Any balance so left 
wscrviced against a Release Order or a group of 
Rolouse Orders presented by the samo exporter , on 
the same date and to the same designated office of the 
State Bank of India — shall be availablo to the Release 
Order-holder along with his future cntitlement, the 
State Bank of India will grant him a certificate to that 
effect . 


( iv ) The Chief Manager, 

Overseas Birch , Slalo Bank u India 

P . B . No. 22 , New Delhi 110 001 . 
(v ) 1 he Manager , 

State Bank of India , 
Main Branch , 
Sanganiri Gale , 
Jaipur . 


24 . Every Release Order shall be surrendered ty 
the holder , in original, to tho State Bank of India at 
the time of the purchase of the gold as above , against 
proper acquittance . 


Procedure for Export of Gold Jewellery 

27. The procedure for export of golu jewellery is 
being notified scparately , 


Applicability of Gold Control Lum 


28 . The Scheme for export of gold jewellery against 
gold supplied by the foreign buyer as notified in Pub 
liclic Notice No. 39 - ITC (PN ) / 80 dated the 14th Octo 
ber, 1980 , and included as Appendix 22 , Annexure 
I to the Import and Export Policy for April 1985 – 
March 1988, Volume I, will co - exist along with this 
scheme. 


25 . Gold bought from the State Bank of India under 
the Scheme shall be subject to all provisions of the 
Gold Control Law . 


334 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - SEC . 1 ] 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


PEL 

- 


ENCLOSURE I 


( Para 11 of Anda urc III to Appondix 22 ) 
Licensing authorities and their jurisdiction . 


1. Jt. CCI& E , Bombay 


2. It. CCI& E , Calcutta 


Mabarashtra , Goa , Daman & Diu , Dadra and Nagar 

Havoli , Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh . 
West Bengal, Orissa , Assam , Bihar, Sikkim , Meghalaya , 
Manipur, Nagaland , Arunachal Pradesh , Mizoram , 
Tripura and Andamop & Nicobar Islapds. 


I . 11 CCI& E , Madras 


Tamil Nadu , Kerala Nunataka , Andhra Pradesh , 
Union Territory of Läkwaadweep , Pondicherry , 
Karaikal, Mabe and Yanam . 


4 


Jt. CCI& E , (CLA ), Delhi. 


Delhi, Punjab , Haryana , Uttar Pradesh , Jammu & 

Kashmii, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh 


3 . Dy. CCI& E , Jaipur 


Rajasthan . 


( ATT I 


1 ) 


भारत का राजपत्र . असाधारण 


335 


LAN 


APPENDIX 22 


ANNEXURE IV 
SCHEME FOR SETTING UP SPECIAL EXPORT ORIENTED COMPLEXES FOR MANUFACTURE 

OF GOLD JEWELLERY 


5. Each building complex so identified for a 
complex of units for jewellery maoufacture will servo 
as a common facility, all costs, including for the 
Customs staff, being shared by the entrepreneurs 
operating in the complex on the basis laid down by 
the sponsoring ugency . 


6 . A Site Selection Committee will be constituted 
by the Ministry of Commerce wbicb will be res 
ponsible for making recommendations to the Board 
of Approval regarding the locational suitability of 
the complexes from the view point of security and 
Customs bonding arrangements. 


7. The recommendations of the Site Selection 
Committee as well as individual applications of units 
wishing to function in a complex will be considered 
by the Board of Approvals for 100 % EQUA. 


Manufacture of gold jewellery will be permitted 
in special export oriented complexes . These special 
export oriented complexes will be governed by the 
provisions of the 100 % export oriented units scheme 
as detailed in Appendix 23 of this Policy, except 
that : 
(a ) nothing, including the rejects , manufactured 

in these complexes will be permitted to be 

sold in the domestic tariff arca ; 
(b ) the specific requirements of jewellery manu 

facturing units , including machines, Equip 
ment, consumables and ancillaries will be 
determined on a caso by case basis, from a 

list of items which will be drawn up ; 
(c) tha format for the bond for the units in these 

complexes, wbich will be for a period of ten 
years, will i, drafted specially by the Ministry 

of Commerce ; 
( d ) as soon as a unit is debonded , it will no 

longor be permitted to function within the 

complex ; and 
(o ) on a unit being debonded , gold , other pre 

cious metals , alloys, gems and other material 
available for manufacture of jewellery will 
be handed over to an agency nominated by 
the Ministry of Commerce at the price to be 
determined by that agency . Ministry of 
Commerce will identify such an agency , and 

issue si propriate notification . 
2. To starı with , the complexes will be permitted 
at five centres, viz. Delhi, Jaipur, Calcutta, Madras 
aad Bombay . 

3 The decision to extend the facility of setting 
up such complexes at other centres will be taken 
op merits by the Ministry of Commerce. 

4 , Special « xport-oriented complexes will be 
Identifiod by the trade or may be sponsored by either 
State Government or a public sector entorpriso of 
tho State or Central Goveromont and the proposalt 
from Individual optraDMONSE » ll the coordanted 
other by the 11 month tonerlei voi se 
Jewellery Expert Promotion pol 


8 . In the case of gold jewellery manufacturing 
units operating in these complexes , the facilities to 
be allowed for import of capital goods, prototypes , 
technical samples, consumables, spares and packag 
ing material will be separately worked out as approved 
by the Board of Approvals , and a separate notifica 
tion will be issued . 


9. The units in those complexes will be permitted 
in accordance with the procedure applicable to the 
100 % EOU scheme and the stipulation laid down in 
para 10 below , to directly import all raw material, 
intermediates and components , including gold alloys, 
carat gold , coloured gold , precious metals including 
platinum and palladium , sockets, frames, mountings, 
goms and stones . Gold of 0 . 999 fineness and purity 
will, however , not be allowed except through the 
State Bank of India or any other agency designated 
by the Ministry of Commerce in consultation with 
the Gold Control authorities , the Contral Board of 
Buceo & Customs and the Chief Controller of Imports 

Byports and, in gach cases, special identification 
warts will be atamped bythe Government Mint at 
Bombay 


336 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

[PART 1- SEC . 1 ] 
- - - - - -- - - - - = - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 

- - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - 
ANNEXURE IV TO APPENDIX 22 – Contd . 
10 . The assessment about the quantity of imported 

11. Dealers licencos under the Gold Control Act 
material required for manufacture by a particular for units approved by the Board of Approvals for 
unit will be determined on the basis of the potential 

operation in jewellery complexes will be obtained 
of export and its periodical requirement according 

by the units. 
to a cycle of turnover indicated by a unit and approved 

12. Membership of the Gem and Jewellery Export 
by the Board of Approvals . The limits of quantities Promotion Council will not be a pre-requisite con 
determined initially may be reduced or enhanced by dition to participate in the Scheme to begin with but 
the Board of Approvals in the light of export per 

they should join the Council within a period of three 
formance , orders in hand or the capacity of produc 

months from the date of first export . 
tion , established on the basis of the recommendations 

13. Export under this scheme shall be allowed 
of the Export Commissioner or any other officer 

oaly by air freight through the Customs Houses at 
designated for ro-assessment by the Board of Approals . Bombay, Calcutta , Madras, Delhi and Jaipur 


[ HT IT1 ] 
- - = - - 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 
- = - - - SS - - - - = = = = = 


337 


= - = = 


= = = 


= 


- - - = 


= 


= 


- 


- 


- 


- 


= = 


- 


= 


- - 


= 


- 


- 


= = 


= 


= = 


= 


= 


= 


= = 


= 


APPENDIX 


ANNEXURE V 


SCHEME FOR MANUFACTURE OF GOLD JEWELLERY IN REE TRADE ZONES 


Manufacture of gold jewellery will be permitted 
in FTZs. Units set up in FTZs for manufacture of 
gold jewellery will be governed by the provisions of 
the FTZ scheme as detailed in Appendix 15 of this 
Policy , except that : 


FTZ scheme and the stipulation laid down in para 
6 below , to directly import all raw materials , inter 
mediates and components, including gold alloys, 
carat gold , coloured gold , precious metals including 
platinum and palladium , sockets , frames , mountings, 
gems and stones. 


(a ) nothing, including the rejects , manufactured 

in these complexes will be permitted to be 
sold in the domestic tariff arca ; 


(b ) the specific requirements of jewellery manu 

facturing units, including machines , equip 
ment, consumables and ancillaries will be 
determined on a case by case basis, from a 
List of items which will be drawn up ; 


5 .2 Gold of 0 . 999 fineness and purity will, how 
ever, not be allowed except through the State Bank 
of India or any other agency designated by the 
Ministry of Commerce in consultation with the Gold 
Control authorities , the Central Board of Excise and 
Customs and the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports and , in such cases, special identification marks 
will be stamped by the Government Mint at Bombay . 


(c) in the event of a unit ceasing its operations , 

gold , other precious metals, alloys , gem and 
other material available for manufacture of 
jewellery will be handed over to an agency 
nominated by the Ministry of Commerce 
at the Price to be determined by that agency . 
Ministry of Commerce will identify such an 
agency , and issue appropriate notification . 


6 . The assessment about the quantity of im 
ported material required for manufacture by a parti 
cular unit will be determined on the basis of the 
potential of export and its periodical requirement 
according to a cycle of turnover indicated by a unit 
und approved by the Board of Approvals . The 
limits of quantities determined initially may be reduced 
or cobanced by the Board of Approvals in the light 
of export performance, orders in hand or the capacity 
of production , established on the basis of the recom 
mendations of the Export Commissioner or any 
other officer designated for re-assessment by the 
Board of Approvals . 


(d ) minimum value added content of 30 % or 

more will be accessary for production in such 
a unit . 


2 . To start with , such units will be pormitted in 
the FTZs at FALTA , Madras, Cochin and NOIDA . 

3. The decision to extend the facility of sctting 
op such units at other FTZ : will be taken subsequently 
by the Ministry of Commerce . 


1. Dealers licences under the Gold Control 
Act for units approved by the Board of Approvala 
for operation in jewellery Zones will be obtained by 
the units. 


4 . In tho case of gold jewellery manufacturing 
units operating in these Zones, the facilities to do 
allowed for import of capital goods, prototypes, 
technical samplos, consumables, spares and packag 
ing material will be separately worked out as approved 
by the Board of Approvals, and a separate notifica 
tion will bo issued . 


8 . Membership of the Gem and Jewellery Export 
Promotion Council will not be a pro -requisito condi 
tion to participate in the Scheme to begin with but 
they should join the Council within a period of throc 
months from the date of first export. 


5 . 1 The units in these danes will the pervoitto 
in accordance with the procedure applicable to the 


9. Export under this scheme shall be allowed only 
by air freight through the Custom House at Bombvy ? 
Calcutta , Madias Delbi und Cochin 


338 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I - SEC . 1] 


W 


+ 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 23 


( Chapter XIX ) 
100 % EXPORT ORIENTED UNIT SCHEME 


The 100 % Export Oriented Unit Scheme envisages 
an industrial unit offering for export its entire produc 
tion , excluding rejects or items otherwise specifically 
permitted to be supplied to the Domestic Tariff Area . 
A copy of the Ministry of Commerce Resolution dated 
the 31st December , 1980 , as amended , regarding 100 % 
Export Oriented Units appears in this Appendix . 


effected in the Domestic Tariff Area not 
exceeding 25 % of the total output as per 
para 8 ( a ) celow ; and ( iii ) supplies effected 
in the Domestic Tariff Area under global 
tender conditions ; 


the os applicable under 


2 . Application for approval as a 100 % Export 
Oriented Unit should be submitted to the Secretariat 
for Industrial Approvals, Ministry of Industry , Udyog 
Bhavan , New Delhi in the form prescribed in Appendix 
XIX - A of the Hand Book along with relevant Foreign 
Collaboration form where applicable . These appli 
cations will be considered by a Board headed by the 
Commerce Secretary . 


The items permitted for import under OGL 
and the conditions applicable thereto are 
contained in the OGL Annexed . For their 
other import requirements, if any, not covered 
under OGL , such as air -conditioners required 
for the factory , the unit concerned will have 
to obtain import licence from the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports, New 
Delhi. Applications will be considered on 
merits , having regard to indigenous angle and 
other conditions. 


3 . Industrial Units approved by the Board set up 
for this purpose will alone be eligible for import of 
Capital Goods , raw materials , components and 
spares, etc ., required by them for export production 
under the Scheme. While giving its approval, the 
Board will also decide the percentage of value addi 
tion in the product to be exported as well as the des 
cription of the product to be exported . 


) The unit will have to show a miji um value 

addition of 20 % or such percentage as men 
tioned in the Approval Letter/Letter of 
Intent. For this purpose, all foreign exchange 
out- go attributable to the 100 % Export 
Oriented Unit and supplies procured from 
the Domestic Tariff Area of raw materials , 
components and consumables shall be taken 
into account. Formula for calculation of 
value addition is given in the application 
form in Appendix XIX - A of the Hand Book . 


4. Such approvals will be subject to the conditions 
given below : 
(a ) the entire production and operation of the 

100 % Export Oriented Unit shall be in a 
Customs-bonded factory . The Collector of 
Customs/Central Excise concerned will pro 
vide the bonding facilities for the factory 
premises on payment. Normal procedure 
that is applicable for Customs bonding will 
de followed , including transit bond for the 
purpose of goods being taken from the port 

of importation to the factory ; 
(6 ) Iraport of capital goods permitted is to be 

effected within two years from the date of 
issue of the Letter of Approval. For any 
additional requirements of capital goods, 
over that permitted initially , the unit will 
have to apply afresh to the Board of Approval ; 


( ) A unit approved under this Scheme shall 

execute a Bond or legal agreement (shown in 
Appendix XIX - B of the Hand Book ) with the 
Licensing authority concerned , undertaking 
to fulfil the export obligation prescribed . 
Failure to discharge the export obligation 
will render the unit liable to the payment of 
Customs duty on the material imported at 
the value at the time of import and at the 
rates in force at the time of clearance without 
prejudice to any other actions that may be 
taken under the Customs Act, 1962 and the 
Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 and 
the Orders issued thereunder. Exemption 
from Customs duty on imports by 
100 % Export Oriented Units will be 
subject to such other orders as may be issued 
separately by the Department of Revenue, 
Ministry of Finance , New Delhi. 


(c ) No export benefits like Cash Assistance or 

Replenishment licences would be admissible 
on any export or supplies effected by a 100 % 
Bxport Oriented Unit 


علل 


2 . * 


Is 


. d . * * ** bux .fuitad crept 
glects upto ** sucli percentage is 
Y De med ny bo Bourdi 1 ) puppllow 


misis namn of the clost of cach financial 
yeti . unit Vuocerned sbull furnish ao 
1 hou art * * the concerned licensing authority 


94 


( PTT 1. 


31) 


भारत का राजपत्र असाधारण 


APPENDIX 23 - Conid 


BAPPE 
Remas 
bendix 
? 


in regard to (i) the quantity and value (c.i.f. 
or the price paid , as the case may be ) of 
items directly imported or supplies obtained 
from the Domestic Tariff Area ; (ii ) the 
quantity and f.o .b . value of items exported 
outside the country ; (iii ) sales of rejects per 
mitted ; (iv) sales permitted upto 25 % of 
production to the Domestic Tariff Area ; 
and (v ) supplies to Domestic Tariff Area 
under the global tender condition . The 
approved unit shall also furnish quarterly 
returns indicating the progress of implemen 
tation of the project in the form as prescribed 
directly to the Export Commissioner in the 
Office of the CCI& E . The annual returns as 
well as other returns , as may be prescribed 
by the Board of Approval, will be sent 
through the Customs/Central Excise Officer 
attached to the industrial unit concerned . 
Failure to submit the above periodicals/ 
returns may result in with -holding of permis 
sion for disposal of rejects, etc . 


components, consumables , intermediates, packing 
materials, material handling equipment like fork lifts, 
overhead cranes ( only initially at the time of setting up 
of factory ), building construction materials and spares 
under Open General Licence in this Appendix , subject 
to the conditions laid down therein . Items banned 
for import in the Domestic Tariff Area in Appendix 2 
Part A of this Policy , are however, not allowed to 
be imported . Indigenously manufactured capital 
goods, components and raw materials will be allowed 
without payment of Central Excise duty . 


Supplies made by Domestic Tariff Area units to 100 % 

Export Oriented Units 


6 . (a ) Supplies of material handling equipment 
such as fork lifts, overhead cranes (only initially at 
the time of setting up of factory ), building construc 
tion materials , consumables and spares to 100 % 
Export Oriented Units shall be treated as Deemed 
Exports and will be eligible for import replenishment 
licences in accordance with the Import Policy for 
Registered Exporters, provided : 


(i) the goods supplied have been manufactured 

in India ; 


Wherever an existing industrial unit is opera 
ting both as domestic unit as well as an 
approved 100 % Export Oriented Unit, it 
should have two distinctly different names 
for the two units . It is clarified that it is 
not necessary for the approved 100 % Export 
Oriented Unit to have a separate legal entity . 
However , it should be possible to distinguish 
the import and export or supplies effected by 
the 100 % B .O . Us. from those made by the 
other unit/ units of the same firm /company . 
The 100 % Export Oriented Unit, though 
not having separate legal entity , would not 
be eligible to be considered for the benefits 
of any provisions under this policy other 
than those expressly provided for 100 % 
B . O .US. 


( ii ) the supplier is a Registered Exporter and 

is otherwise eligible to the import replenish 
ment licence under the policy in force. 


(6 ) The supplier s relevant invoice in such cases 
should be got endorsed by the Customs/ Central 
Excise authorities to the effect that the goods covered 
by the invoice have been received by the 100 % 
Export Oriented Unit concerned giving the name and 
address of that unit. 


(c ) Where buyer s unit concerned has an import 
licence for the import of the same goods, the Custom , 
authority endorsing the invoice will also debit the 
import licence making it invalid for direct import of 
goods to the extent procured locally , 


While applying for approval , the applicant 
unit should also furnish the list of items 
including capital goods, it will need to import . 
In respect of raw materials, componente 
and spares, etc., the requirements , covering 
a period of 12 months in respect of each 
item should be given . The quantity should 
be mentioned in respect of each item though 
not itemwise value . The value mentioned 
should be aggregated separately for (1) Capital 
goods and (ii ) Raw materials, components , 
consumables, intermediates, packing materials 
and spares. The list of items should also 
laclude items which have been placed under 
Open General Licence under the normal 
Import Policy . 


( d ) The goods obtained locally under this pro 
vision whether against an import licence or otherwise 
shall be included in the account to be furnished by 
the unit to the licensing authority at the end of each 
financial year as laid down in para 4 (h ) above . The 
goods thus obtained locally shall be used for export 
production in accordance with the provision laid 
dovn for a 100 % Export Oriented Unit . 


$ . Based on the approval granted by the Board , 
a 100 % Export Oriented Unit will be eligible to import 
(without payment of Customs duty ) capital goods 
(wbother new or second hand) or prototypce ani 

balagi namplor , feocrating uk e pun terleln , 


( e ) The supplier of the goods can claim , I adinis 
sible otherwise , Import replenishment liccocer ander 
the Import policy for Registered lofortere Agalget 
* 006: supplied import applicaong hinal. A 


340 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1- SEC . 1] 


APPENDIX 23 - Contd . 


to the licensing authorities concerned in the prescri 
bed form and manner. The application should be 
supported by the following documents : 


(i) Chalan for the requisite amount towards 

application fee ; 


(6) The sale shall be effected only with the prior 
permission of the Export Commissioner in the office 
of the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports , New 
Delhi. The unit desiring to sell its goods in the 
domestic market should approach the Export Com 
missioner. It should also indicate the quantity of 
the item sought to be supplied in the domestic market 
against valid import licence , or covered under OGL , 
and the total quantity of the same item produced by 
the unit, as on date, during the licensing year. The 
application should be certified by the officer of the 
Customs/Central Excise In -charge of the bonded 
area . The Export Commissioner will verify that the 
proposed sale does not exceed 25 % of the actual 
production alroady turned out by tho unit before 
allowing sale in the domestic market. 


( it ) Supplier s invoice duly endorsed by the 

Customs authority to the effect that the goods 
covered by the invoice have been received by 
the buyer unit concerned , 


(iii ) A statement of exports in the form prescribed 

in the Hand Book of Import- Export Proce 
dures for 1985 – 88 . 


(iv ) The value on which REP licence will be 

admissible will be " FOR destination " . 


(c) After obtaining the permission from tho 
Export Commissioner, the purchaser may prefer an 
application through the 100 % Export Oriented Unit 
which is to supply such goods in the following 
manner : 


Applications based on such supplies should be made 
separately and not included in the claim based on 
physical oxports. 


( f) The supplier of the goods can also claim 
other benefits, namely , (a ) discharge of export obli 
gation against Capital goods licence or Industrial 
licence or Foreign Collaboration approval, (b ) grant 
of export house certificate and (c ) benefits, if any , 
available to exporting units under the Actual User 
Policy . 


(1) In respect of itons which require an import 

licence under the Import Policy ip force on 
the proposed dato of sale , applications for 
salo of such items may be preferred to the 
Customs/Central Excise Officer concerned 
along with valid import licence held by the 
Domestic Tariff Area Unit (purchaser). If 
the valid import licence (s ) produced cover (s ) 
import of items proposed to be sold by the 
100 % Export Oriented Unit, the Customs/ 
Central Excise Officer concerned will allow 
such supplies to the unit in DTA after suitably 
debiting the licences) (on both copies), 
making an entry of the value of supplies in 
the permission of the Export Commissioner 
referred to in para 8 (6 ) above . The details 
like the date of supply , description of items, 
quantity, value and duty paid should be 
indicated whilo debiting the licence(s). 


Transfer of materials from 100 % Export Oriented 

Units to wait in FTZ /100 % EOUS 


7. Transfer of products manufactured by 100 % 
Export Oriented Units to another 100 % Export 
Oriented Unit or to a Unit in " Free Trade Zone" 
may bo allowed subject to the same conditions as 
prescribed in para 8( v) of Appendix 15 of this Policy. 


Sale of goods by 100 per cent Export Oriented Units 

In the Domestic Tariff Area 


( 11 ) If tho material(s) proposed to be sold by the 

100 % Export Oriented Units doos/ do not 
require any import licence in accordance with 
the policy in force on the date of such salo , 
a 100 % Export Oriented Unit which proposes 
to sell may prefer an application for issue of 
Roloase Order to the licensing authority 
concerned . 


8 . (a ) Sale of goodsmanufactured by an approved 
100 % Export Oriented Unit may be allowed in the 
Domestic Tariff Area against valid import licences , 
if the items sought to be supplied to the Domestic 
Tariff Area require an import licence in accordance 
with the import policy in force . Such sales shall 
not exceed 25 % of production of the same item by 
the unit concerned during the licopsing year. Within 
tho 25 % limit, nule into Domestic market of the 
Iterus allowed for import onder Opco General Licence 
may also be allowed , subiect to the conditions tald 
town for import ag OGL 


(d ) The Reloase Order will be issued in duplicate 
and the value of the Release Order will be entered 
by tho Licensing Authority in the permission of the 
Export Commissioner referred to in para 8 (b ) above . 
Tho original of the Release Order shall be retained 
by tho 100 % Export Oriented Unit after obtaining 
the acquittance of the Release Order holder for the 
1ecoipi of guous and the valuc / quantity thereof 
l his will serve as an evidence of export by the con 
cerned 100 % Export Oriented Unit The Voilue to 


[ TTI 


1 


भागम का राजपत्र प्रसाधारण 


341 


- 


T 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 23 — Contd . 


be treated as f. o .b . value of exports will be the valuo 
for which the goods are supplied or the value of 
the Release Ordor , whichever is lower, 


Export Commissioner in the Office of the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports , New Delhi. 
These Green Cards will be issued to those units which 
liave taken effective steps for implementation of their 
projects. 


(e ) The purchaser of the goods shall be liable to 
pay excise duty , sales tax and such other taxes/duties 
as may be leviable on the goods in question . 


Applicability of Export Policy 


The sale shall be subject to the notification 
as may be issued by the Department of Revonue , 
Ministry of Finance , New Delhi, or such other notifi 
cation or instructions as may be issued by them from 
time to time in this regard . 


10 . Supply of goods from units in the Domestic 
Tariff Area to an approved 100 % Export Oriented 
Unit shall be in accordance with the Export Policy 
in force . 


9 . For facilitating the units approved under this 
Scheme to be eligible for priority treatment in matters 
relating to setting up and implementation of their 
projects , they can apply for Green Cards to the 


11. Open GeneralLicence No. 17/85 dated 12th April , 
1985 permitting import of items by an approved 100 % 
Export Oriented Unit is given in Annexure II to 
this Appendix . 


342 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 


[PART I - SEC . 1] 
- -- -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - 


- - 


- - 


- - - - - - - 


- - - 


- - - - - - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- - - - - - - 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 23 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
( DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE ) 

RESOLUTION 


No. 8 ( 15 ) / 78 -EP New Delhi, the 31st December, 
1980 , as amended vide Ministry of Commerce Reso 
lution No. 1 /5 /82- EP , dated the 21st November, 
1983 . 


7. A unit approved by the Board shall be governed 
broadly by the following terms and conditions : - - 


100 % EXPORT ORIENTED UNITS 
In order to bridge the increasing deficit in the 
balance of trade and running Jown of exchange reser 
ves , it has become nccessary to step up the growth of 
our exports . Accordingly Government have decided 
to implement a scheme to facilitate the setting up of 
100 % export oriented units. It has been decided to 
pve such units certain concessions to enable them to 
mect rigours of foreign demand in terms of pricing, 
quality precision , etc , 

2 . A 100 % export oriented unit would imply an 
Industrial unit offering for exports its entire production 
excluding permitted levels of rejects , An agreed time 
phasing for achioving 100 % export will be permissible 
on merits of each case , Such an unit would belong to 
an industry in respect of which the export potential 
Md export targets have been considered by the relevant 
Export Promotion Comcl. The product concemned 
should not be subject to export control quota ceilings 
which can be reached by cxisting units in tho industry . 
The intention is that capacity should be created which 
should result in additionality of exports and not mere 
substitution . 


( v ) 


(i) The unit shall andertake to manufacture in 

bond and to export its entire production foi a 
period of 10 years ordinarily and 5 years in 
the case of products having high degree of 
technological change . The customs autho 
rities shall provide bond facilities to such 

units wherever located . 
(il) Import of Capital Goods, components , raw 

materials , spares , consumables, office equip 
ments , material handling equipments, such 
as fork - lifts , over - head cranes including con 
struction materials shall be exempt from 

import duty . 
( ili ) No export benefits like cash assistance , reple. 

nishment licences would be admissiblo op 

these exports, 
( iv ) Import of capital goods, components , raw 

material and consumables, at required will be 
permitted , 
Imports of necessary capital goods shall be 
allowed against free foreign exchange or bila 
teral credits in such a way that tho cost of 

units is not anduly raised , 
( vt ) Foreign collaboration may be permitted on 

merits of each case . 
(vi ) Tho conditions for dilation of foreign oquity 

as stipulated in the Department of Economic 
Affairs Press Note of 19th Febrpary, 1972 , 
will not be enforcod in 100 % cxport oriented 

casos. 
( vit ) So as to keep rates of return on export pro 

duction competitive , exporting units Inclur 
ing large Houser /MRTP units may be per 
mitted to borrow from financial Institutions 

at oormat dobt/ equity ratio . 
( ir ) Indigenously available capital goods, com 

ponents and raw mastertalk will be allowed 

without havment of Central Excine dut , 
( 1 ) Relecte ap to 594 or khen recenthee ni * 

he red by the Board may be allowrd to be 


3 . Minimum value added content of 20 % or more 
will be necessary for production of such & unit. 
Domestically procurod raw materials shall be treated 
As Imports for computation of value added , 

4 . While approving such a unit the additional emp 
loyment which would be generatod by the proposed 
unit would also be taken into consideration , 

3. An illustrative Hist of Industries which may be 
considered under the scheme is annored . 

6 . All the units intending to apply op Industries ander 
the scheme shall make applications to he Secretariat 
for Industrial Approvals , Ministry of Industry . Departa 
ment of Industrial Developmont, Udyog Bhavan , New 
Delhl in the relevant IL / forme saper-Imposed 
with the words " 100 % im Ortented industry . 
Thoso applications will be considered by # Board 
headed by the Commerce Secretary 


( Yr 1 - 


T 1 ) 


भारत का राजपन : प्रसाधारण 


343 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 23 -- Conid . 


told in tho domostiu carti arca on payment of 
customs duty on imported inputs and contrat 
cicite duty on the indigenous inputs and alan 
untral CCC duty ra the rejects ut en 
AQUOLL equal to the gre yatro Auch 

dutics, 
( 89 ) Time phasing for chieving 100 % exports 

may be considered on merits . However in 
such casos exports shall have to be at least 

three fourths or more of che production . 
( 11 ) Tho gestation period for achieving export 

targets shall not be more than two years and 
the period of export obligation in terms of 
tho approval shall commence after the gesta 

tion period . 
( xii ) The condition of export obligation shall bo 

subject to review by the Board and the 
question whether the unit can be allowed to 
be debonded after completion of export obli 
pation period and thereafter allowed to pro 
duco for domestic market shall be decided in 
the light of industrial policy in force at that 
time, equity participation , indigenous capa 

city and protection to small scale industry . 
( riv ) On dobonding after the period of ciport , 

duties shall be leviable as follow — 
( a ) customs duty on capital goods on the 

depreciated value but at rates prevalent 

at the time of import ; 
( b ) Customs duty on unused mported raw 

materials and components on value at 
the time of import and at rated in forco 

at the timo of clearances ; and 
( c ) in respect of cxcixable goods , 1000 daly 

to bo levied without depreciation and at 

rate attracted at the time of clearance. 
( xv ) An application made for industrial licenco , 

to the Secretariat for Industrial Approvals 

hall be treated as an application under the 
MRTP Act, 1969 and simultaneous action 
shall be taken to process the same so that ? 

single point clearance is given wy the Board . 
( xvi) If any onit approved under this scheme is 

unable for any reasons, to fulfil its export 
or other obligations under this schemo, the 
Board will review the circumstances of that 
unit and recommend the future course of 

action to be taken in regard to that ooit. 
( WH) The units which are approved for there 

special facilities would have 10 execute 
Bond /legal undertaking with the CCI & F 
and lo case of fallure to tap their obuga 
tions, they would be llable to penalty in 
torm of such bond / lerat undertaklar 
besides the penalty , if any , under the Im 
mont Trade Control Regulations 


( Ivull ) Import of samples /prototypes not excooding 

two in number of each type of samplo shal 

be exempt from import duty . 
( xix ) Import of drawings, bluc prut, lerknical 

maps and charts shall be exempt from in 

port duty . 
( XX ) Finished products shall be exempt from 

excise and other central levies . 
( xi) The unit can supply upto 25 % of its output 

in the home market provided it is consistent 
with the import policy , and subject to 
licences and payment of import duties on 

the goods, 
( xxii ) Material handling equipments, such as 

fork - lift , over-head cranes and building con 
struction materials, spares , consumables , ir 
supplied to 100 % Export Oriented Units 
by units in the domestic tariff area , shall be 

treated as Deemed exports . 
( xxü ) The unit can sell its products to domestic 

projects under global tender conditions. 
(xxiv ) Supplies made by units in the domestic tariff 

area shall be exempt from payment of Cen 

tral Sales Tax , 
( XXV ) If any unit approved under this scheme 

wants to take on rent or on lease machinery 
( either from a foreign country or from 
indigenous sources ) to be utilised in the 
bonded premises for producing goods for 
exports , and then to re -export or dispose 
of the machinery after the same has outlived 
its utility, it may apply to the concerned 
administrative Ministry /Department along 
with relevant details , with a copy to the 
Ministry of Commerce ( Export Production 
Section ) , the DGTD or the technical au 
thorities concerned . Such requcsts may be 
permitted on merits of each case , 


- 
( K . PRAKASH ANAND ) 

Jt. Secretary 
to the Government of India 


ORDER 


Ordered that the Resolution be published in the 
Gazette of India and a copy thereof cornmunicated to 
all concerned and given wido publicity. 


specialnegal 
hetallare liable to undertakim 


( 16 . PRAKASH ANAND , 

JI, Secretary 
to the Government of India 


344 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - Sec . 1] 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 23 ---Contd . 
Annexure to the Ministry of Commerce Resolution 

(Para 5) 
Thestrative Met of products which would the elable 

4 . Leather and Sports Gonda :- - 
lor spectal facilities on the ground of 100 % exports . 

4 . 1 Finished leather and leather manufactures 
1. Engineering goods :-- 

including footwear and paint brushes. 
1. 1 Engineering goods ( excluding prime and non 

4.2 Sporta poodi. 
(crrous metals ). 

5 . Food , Agriculture and forest products : 
1.2 Electronics products including clectronic soft 
ware . 

5. 1 Canned and frozen marine products . 
2 . Chemicals Plastics and allied products, namely : 

5 .2 Processed foods , fruits , vegetables and alcoholic 

and soft beverages, 
( a ) Inorganic chemicals , organic chemicals & mis 
cellaneous chemicals , 

5 .3 Meat and allied producto . 

5 .4 Packaged toa l.e . ten packed in consumer 
( b ) Drugs and drugs intermediates including 

packs of a gizo upto 1 kg, and instant to . 
crude drugs. 

5 .5 Instant and packaged ground colloc. 
(c ) Dyes and dye intermediates , 

5 .6 Tobacco manufactura . 
(d ) Toiletries and perfumerice ( excluding Pro 
couuod talo ). 

5 .7 Deoited rice bran and cotton seod cake , dal 

voed fats and animal loods . 
( c ) Paints and allied products. 

5.8 Mango Kernal Extraction and mango ternd 
(1) Safety matches, fireworks, explosives and 
detonatori. 

6 . Textiles : 
(8) Corumio producti , 

1. Carpota . 
(H ) Glass and glasswaro . 

2 . Readymade garments , witwear, made - up uth 
(1) Wood products and proceniod wood . 

clou , 
(1) Asbestos , cement including clinkers and 3. Rubberised coir and curled cutt. 
coment producti . 

4 . Khadi. 
(* ) Rubber manufactures . 

3 . Natural dit fabrica , garments and mado- op 

articla . 
(1) Paper , Papor products and stationery . 

6 . Hosiery. 
(m ) Pesticides and preservatives . 
(1 ) Agarbattis , 

7. Handloom tabrics made up articles and garments 
2 .2 Culinary oleo resina , 

7 . Miscellaneous :- - 
2 .3 Retractories. 

1. Handicrafts . 
2 . 4 Manthai and Linoleam producto . 

2. Sliver md Gold Jewellery , 
3 . Furniture 

3 . Fabricatod mia . 


04 . 


[ TIT1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : प्रसाधारण 


345 


ANNEXURE II TO APPENDIX 23 
( COPY OF OPEN GENERAL LICENCE FOR 100 % EXPORT ORIENTED UNITS ) 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
IMPORT TRADE CONTROL 

ORDER NO . 17 / 85 – 88 
New Delhi, the 12th April , 1985 
OPEN GENERAL LICENCE NO . 17 /85 


17 / 85 . 00 


Delhi, the 


OPEN 


Şubject to the following conditions : 


( a ) Import shall be 

conditions. 


subject to 


actual 


user 


In exercise of the Powers conferred by Section 3 
of the Imports and Exports ( Control) Act 1947, 
( 18 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby gives 
general permission till further orders to the Actual 
Users approved by the Government as 100 % export 
oriented units for the import of : 
( 1 ) Capital Goods (whether new or second 

hand ) including Generating sets ; 
( 2 ) Prototype and technical samples not exceed 

ing two in number of cach type for pro 
duct diversification or development or 
evaluation ; 


( b ) the goods shall be 

bonded factory . 


imported in 


customs 


( c) the unit shall comply with all the conditions 

subject to which payment of Customs duty 
on the imported materials is exempt ; 


( 3 ) Raw materials , components , consumables 

and intermediates ; 


( d ) the normal procedure that is applicable for 

Customs bonding will be followed , including 
transit bond for the purpose of goods being 
taken from the port of importation to the 
factory . 


(4 ) Spares ; 
(5 ) Packing materials ; 


(c ) the entire production and operations shall 

be by / under Customs bonded factory . 


( 6 ) Material handling equipments like Fork 

lifts , Overhead Cranes (for initial setting 
up of thc unit only ), and building construc 
tion materials ; 


( 7 ) ( a ) One number each of the following for 

its own production / use or product diversi 
fication or development or evaluation : 


(f) Import of items which are banned for import 

in the Domestic Tariff Area under Appen 
dix 2 - - Paſt A of this policy will not be 
allowed . 


(i) Electric / Electronic typewriter, 


2 . For import of second hand Capital Goods, the 
importer shall produce to the customs authority at 
the time of clearance, a certificate from a professional 
independent Chartered Engineer any equivalent insti 
tute in the country from which import is made indi 
cating :- - 


L 


(* ) Electrically operated calculating 

Jacíline. 
( iii) Photocopying machine. 
(iv ) Dictation Tape Recorder , 
(v ) Teleprinter, if cleared by Ministry of 

Colomunications 
(vi) PBX PABX including electronically 

operated PBX PABX . 


and 


( a ) Name of manufacturer of the plant 

machinery ; 


( b ) Year of manufacture ; 


(b ) Photocoping paper , calculating machine , 

paper rolls , toner and dispersant for photo 
copying purposes, spares of the machines 
from ( i ) to ( vi ) in 7 ( a ) above and con 
sumable tools required for these machines 
for a value not exceoding Rs. 5000 per 
year ; 


(c ) Present condition of the plant and machinery 

and its expected residual life (Import of 
machinery having expected resident life of 
less than 5 years and also machinery more 
than 7 years old shall not be allowed ) . 


(d ) The CIF value of equivalent Capital goods, 

if purchased now . 


346 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I- Sec. 1] 


"IC 


ANNEXURE LI TO APPENDIX 23 — Cond. 


(e ) nature of reconditioning / repair dono, if any , 

and the date (s ) on which these were 

carried out ; and 
( f) opinion regarding the price asked for by 

the suppliers and the basis for such opinion . 
3 . On prior clearance of the Export Commissioner 
in the office of the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports , New Delhi, such units may also be allowed 
to import the following : 
(i) Prototypes and technical samples not cover 

ed by para 1 above . 


such by Government under thc scheme 100 % export 
oriented units, on payment of customs duty as may be 
leviable , subject to the following condition . : 

(i) The importer shall produce at the time of 

clearance through customs, the certificate 
referred to in clause ( 2 ) above, when 

importing second hand Capital Goods. 
(1 ) At the time of clearance through customs, 

the impuries shall produce Export 
Performance Certificate obtained from the 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
New Delhi, in accordance with the proce 
dures laid down in the relevant imperi 
policy, as an evidence of having exported 
100 % of its production in the prevjuu 

three financial years , 
(lif ) The importer should also give a declaration 

to the effect that the import of capital goods 
under this provision will not result in 

exceeding us licensed approved capacity . 
( iv ) The import shall be subject to Actual User 

condition . 


( i ) Drawings , blue prints , charts , technical data 

including micro films. 


4 . Such units will also be allowed to re- import 
after repairs abroad , machinery / equipments exported 
by them for this specific purpose. Any foreign ex 
change payment necessary for this will also be allow 
ed 


5 . The provisions of this Open General Licence will 
also apply for the import of Capital Goods (whether 
new or second hand ) by industrial units exporting 
100 % of their production already , at least during the 
previous three financial years, but not approved I$ 


6 . This licence is in supersession of the Ministry 
of Commerce Import Trade Control Order No. 18 | 
84 dated the 12th April, 1984 . 


(P . C . JAIN ) 
Chlef Controller of Imports and Exports 


13 


Copy to all concerned : 

By order etc ., 


Sd / 
( O . P . GAHROTRA ), 
Ji. Chief Controller of Imports and exports 
{ (Issued from File No. 1 / 2 /74 - EPC (Vol. XII ) ] 


[MHT1 ] 


भारत का राजपत्र : प्रसाधारण 


347 


APPENDIX - 24 

(Para 220 of Ohapter XIV ) 
EXPORT OF NEW PRODUCTS OR TO NEW MARKETS 

I. NEW MARKETS. 
Si. Description of Export Product 

Nev markets 
No. 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


vee 


Date from which 

effective 


1- 4 - 1983 


Ro 


ENGINEERING GOODS COVERED BY PRODUCT GROUP : A . 
1. Tortile Machinery 

Kuvait Zdundia , Franco . 
2. Sugar Mill Machinery , Nepal, Iran , Iraq , Kuvalt, Saudi Arabia , UAB, Uganda, Zambia , 

Nigeria , Algeria , Egypt, Franco , Federal Republic of Germany , 

U . K ., USSR , USA . 
3 . Çemeut Mill Machinery , Malaysia , Srilanka, Iran, Kenya Tanzania , Uganda , Zambia , 

Algeria , Egypt, Branco, Federal Republic of Germany, V . K ., 

USSR , USA . 
4. Boilers . . . . ndonesia , Srilanka, Kuvalt, Saudi Arabia , Zambia , France . 
5. Chemical Plant , . , Nepal, Uganda, Algeria , Franco, U . K . 
6 . Food Processing Machinory Iraq , Kuwait , Saudi Arabia , UAB, Algeria , Egypt, Franco, Federal 

Republic of Gerroany, U .K ., USA . 
7, Heating & cooling Equip - Uganda, Zambia , Algoria Pranco, Federal Republlo of Gormany , 
mont 

U . K ., USSR 
8 . Industrial Machinery (othors ) Algeria, Franco . 
9 . Transmission Lino Toven . Bangladesh , Kovalt , Uganda , Zambia , Algerla , Franco, Federa ) 

Republlo of Germany. U . K ., USSR , USA , 
10. Stool Structures Fabricated Uganda, Zambia, Algoria , Franco, Federal Republlo of Gormány , 

U . K . 
11. Bloctro Wiro & Jablon Saudi Arabia , Tanzania , Uganda , Algodla , Brypt, Pranoo, Fodoral 

Ropubllo of Germany. U . K ., USA . 
12 . Vagop & Coacbon . Indonesia , Malaysla , Ing. Kuvalt, Saudi Arabia , UAB, Tanzadja , 

Algorta , Franco , Fodoral Ropabllo of Germany, O . K ., USSR , 

USA 
13. Machine Tools , Uguodu 
14. Stoel Piper . . . . Algoria, Pranco , USSR . 
11 Sanitary Casting . . Algorta , Fransa. 
16. Bicycle & Parts , Kawalt , Algorla 
17. Hand, Small & Gotttog 
Tools 

Ugaoda, Algeria 
18. Dloual Bogloci & Air Com 
prouori 

Algorta 
Mochanical Pump . Uganda . Algorta 
20 Plectrlo Paol . 

. lodonorla, Uganda , Zambia, Algoria , Bradoo, Podoral Ropudlla 

of Gordany , USSR . 
21. Battorio , . 

lodonopla , Iraq , Saudi Arabia , Konya , Uganda , Algoda 


19 . 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


348 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I - SEC . 1 ] 


APPENDIX 24 - contd . 


Sl. Description of Export Product 
No. 


New Markets 


Date from 
which effective 


menin 


1 - 4 - 1983 


CHEMICALS AND ALLIED PRODUCTS COVERED BY PRODUCT GROUP : B 
1. Paints, varnishes & enamels (ex . Super All countries except USSR , Nepal, S . Yemen , Saudi 

synethetic enamels based on Polyster ). Arabia , UAE , 
2 . Lacquers including Nitro Cellulose All countries . 

Lacquers. 
3. Super Synthetic enamels based on poly - All countries except USSR . 

ster , 
4 . Distempors including Cement paints 
5 . (i) Napthanato driers . 

(ii) Octoate driers 
6 . Prussian Blue. 
7. Rubbing compounds 
8 . Wax Polish 
9 . Poster colours including artist colours 
10 . Leather Pigment finishes 
11. Firoworks 
12 . Artificial Teeth (porcelain type ) 
13. Clinical Thermometers & Wall Thermo 

moters . 
14 . Docorative wooden picture frame 

All countries. 
sticks /framos 
15 . Fibre -boards (hard board , insulation 

board & accoustic tiles ), Particle board 
(yeneored & unveneered & moulded 
particle board ), and compreg , laminated 

timber & densified wood . 
16 . Foam rubber & sponge rubber & Pro 

ducts thereof. 
17. Oil cesistant hoses 
18. Paper based transfers , plain or printed 
19 . Fountain pen Ink , Typewriter ribbon ink 
(i) Ink Pads, correcting fluids, masking 

çaps, blotting pads. 
(ii ) Pencils , Lead slips for poncils 
20 . Synthetic resins and adhesivos based on All countries except Bahrain , Indonesia , Singapore , 
synthetic rosins & synthetic hardeners. 

UAE . 
21. Chrome pigments . 

All countries except USSR , Australia , Egypt, S . Yemen , 

Saudi Arabia , Hongkong, Singapore , Sri Lanka , 

Thailand , UK , Kenya . 
22 . Ultramrino Blue 

All countries except Bangladesh , Sri Lanka , Singapore , 

Australia , Thailand , Egypt . 
23 . Aluminium powder & pasto 

All countries except Sri Lanka , Thailand USA . 
24 . Zinc Oxido 

All countries except Sri Lanka , Thailand , USA . 
25. Inorganic Pigments N . O . S . 

All countries except Philippines, Kuwait , Kenya , 

UK , UAE , Saudi Arabia . 
26 . Printers ink . 

All countrios except Bangladesh , 


[WT1 1 - 


1] 


भारत का राजपम : असाधारण 


349 


APPENDIX 24 - Contd . 


1 -4 - 1983 


27. 
28. 
29 . 
30 . 
31. 
32 . 
33 . 
34 . 


Boot Polish 
Safety matches 
Detonators/Denonating fuse 
Safety Fuse 
Glazed tiles 
Insulators 
Spray dried Kaolin or China Clay 
Crockery 


35 . Sanitary wares 


36 . Mosaic Terazo tiles 


37. Vacuum Flasks & Insulated ware 


38. 


Flat Glass including Sheet figured & 
wired glass 


39. 


Glass vłals 


All countries except USSR . 
All countries except Sri Lanka, Nepal, Oman . 
All countries except Nepal, Jordan, Singapore . 
All countries except USSR . 
All countries except Sri Lanka , Phillippines, Bangladesh , 
All countries except Bangladesh , Japan . 
All countries except USSR , UK , Canada , Nether 

lands . 
All countries except Mauritius, Bahrain , Bangladesh , 

Kenya , Kuwait, Egypt, Nepal, Sri Lanka, S . Yemen . 
All countries except Iraq , Kuwait, Oman , Saudi 

Arabia, UAE , S . Yemen . 
All countries except USSR , Belgium , W . Germany , 

Sweden , Switzerland . 
All countries except Bangladesh, Iran , Kenya , Oman , 

Kuwait, Saudi Arabia , Singapore, S . Yemen , UAE , 

Indonesia , Sri Lanka, USA . 
All countries except Bangladesh , Egypt, Kenya , 

Indonesia , Philippines, Thailand . 
All countries except Saudi Arabia , USA , Italy , Algeria. 
All countries except Bangladesh , Bahrain , Kuwait , 

Kenya, Nepal, Oman , Qatar, Saudi Arabia , Australia, 

Sri Lanka , Singapore, Somalia, S . Yemen , UAE. 
All countries except VAE , Saudi Arabia , Kuwait , Sri 

Lanka, Kenya , Egypt, Yemen . 
All countries except Bahrain , Kuwait, Qatar, Oman , 

Saudi Arabia , UAE, S . Yemen . 
All countries except Hongkong, Iraq, Saudi Arabia , 

Sri Lanka , Oman , UK , USA . 
All countries except Bangladesh , Nepal, UK , Denmark , 

Italy . 
All countries except Egypt, W . Germany , Indonesia , 

Switzerland , Thailand . 
All countrios except USSR , UAE, Saudi Arabia, Syria , 

Philippines, Egypt, Nigeria , Iraq . 
All countries except UK , Nepal. 
All countrics except UK , Nepal. 
All countries except USA , USSR , Bangladesh , UK , 
Nopal. 


40 . Glass Beads & Falsc pearls 
41. Glass & Glasswaro N .O .S . 


42 . Opthalmic fused blanks & lenses 


43. Asbestos Products & asbestos Cement 

products 
44 . Plywood & plywood Products incl. 

flush doors 
45. Bicycle tyres & tubes excl. tubes of 

butylo rubber 
36. Rubber aprons & cots 


48. 


0 . 


47 . Rubber Hoses ( other than oil resistant 

hoses ) & beltings 

Rubber & canvas footvoar 
49. Surgical & Medical app. of rubber 

Automobile tyres & tubes ex , tubes of 

butyle rubber) 
51. Auto & bicycle tubes of butyle rubber 
52. Rubber manufactured products 1 .0.8. 

Tissue paper, incl. cigarette tissue paper 
54 . Books all types 

Newspapers, Journals & Periodicals 


All countries except Iran , Iraq, Saudi Arabia, UAE . 
All countries except Nepal, Bangladesh , 
All countries excopt Bangladesh , Egypt, W . Germany , 
Malaysia ,Nepal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, UK , USA , 

UAE, Nigeria , Kcoya , Kuwait . 
All countries except Japan , Norway, Sri Lanka, W . 

Gormapy, Taiwan , Australia . 
All countries except Bangladosh . 


. Abrasivo Lapping powder, all typog 


57. 


Fire Hosen 


VW 


350 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1 - Sec . 1] 


APPENDIX 24 Contd . 


1 2 
58 . Borax . 
59 . Boric Acid 


1 - 4 -1984 


. 
. 


. 
. 


Saudi Arabia , UK , UAB , Netberlands , Burma. 
. Kenya , USA , Iran , Japan . 


50. Copper Sulphate 


. 


UAE , YAR , Kenya, Mauritius, 


61. Bleaching Powder 

West Germany, Seychelles, Burma, Ethiopia , Finland , Iran , 

Thailand , Tanzania , 
62 . Hydrochloric Acid , Bahrain , Kenya, Iran , Nigeria, Qatar , Iraq . 
63 . Sulphuric Acid Kenya, Finland , Muscat, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE . 
64. Alunos . . . Sri Lanka, Bangladesh , Iran , UAE. 
65. Aluminium Sulphate . Mauritius , Hong Kong, Bangladesh, Iran, Iraq . 
66. Potassium Permanganato Iran , Members of B.E .C., Japan . 
67. Aluminium Chloride UAE , Kenya, Japan, Bangladesh . . 
68. Rubber Chemicals , Ghana, Belgium , Singapore, Tudzanla , Zambla , 
69. Textile Auxilaries , Bangladesh , USA , Singapore , lan, Japan . 
70. Carbon Black . . . UK , Vietnam , Kedya , Bangladesh, Japan , Indonorla , Korea , 

Malaysia , Thailand. 
71. Foundary Fluxos , Phillippines. 
72. Acetic Acid . , Sri Lanka, USA , UK , 


Drugs & Drugs Intermediates : 
73. Borberine Hydrochlorido , Franco, Koroa , China, USA . 
74 . Salt & other derivativo of USSR , Indonesia . 

Emetino 


79 . Strychnine Alkalolds /Salto . Adon , Iroland, Iran, Argentina, Spalo . 
76 . () Patent & Proprietory Iran, Hong Kong, Italy, Nepal, Babralo, Botsvana. 

Medicines 


18 . 


1 -4 - 1989 


(ii) Veterinary Druga 
77. Othor Medicamonts . 


U . K . 
Australia , Afghanistan , Austria , Nopal, Bangla Desh , Bulgada , 

UAE, Svodon , Nev Zoaland , Thailand , Spalo , Mauritius , 
Talvåd , Australla, Bahrain . 


1 - 4 - 1984 


78 . Potassłum Citrato 


. 


Singapore , Bangla Dosb , Kenya, Malaysła . 


79 . D1-lodohydroxyquinolino) , Australia , Indonesia, Muscat, Pakistan , Thalland . 

Iodohydroxy - quinoline 


[ TT | - - # 5 1 ] 


भारत का राजपम : प्रसाधारण 


351 


- 


TTI 


LIWA , ITI 

M 


A LTLI . 

II. 


U . 


APPENDIX 24 - -Contd . 


(1 ) 


(2 ) 


(3 ) 


80 . Beta Ionone , 


. 


- 


Switzerland , France , Ireland . 


1- 4 - 1984 


81, Papaim Pure . . 

2. Aluminium Hydroxide 
83. Potassium Iodide . 
84 . Hydrogen peroxide . 


, Thailand , Singapore, Denmark , Indonesia , France , Ireland . 
- Thailand , Bangla Desh , Japan , Iran , Malaysia , Pakistan , 

Sri Lanka, UK , USA , Singapore , Turkey. 
, Bangla Desh , Malavi, Pakistan . 


85. Empty Gelatine Capsulos Bangladesh , Singapore, Thailand , 
86 . Paracetamol , , Ghana , Singapore. 
87 . Thiacctazone . . , Bangla Desh . 
88. Ayurvedic & Unani Medi- Muscat , UAE, Fiji, Afghanistan , Burma, France, Canada, Iraq , 
cines. 

Nepal, Mauritius, Denmark , Tanzania, Zambia , W . Germany , 

Italy , Adon , Kuwait , U . K ., Mozambiquo , Saudi Arabia , Spain . 
Dyer & Dye Intermodiates : 

Synthetic Organic dyes including Organic pigments . 
89 . Acid Dyes . . Belgium , Adon , Singapore, Ethiopia, Denmark , Bangla Desh , Nopal. 
90 . Basic Dyes . . . Australia , China, Spain , Belgium , Fiji, UAE , Iran , Japan , Korea , 

Muscat, New Zealand, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Saudi Arabia , 

Taivan , YAR , France. 
91. Diroct Dyos . . . 

Franco , Philippines, UAB, Taiwan , Yogoslavia , Turkey , Korea , 

Iran . 
92. Organic Pigments Belgium , Greece, Japan, Muscat, UAB , Saudi Arabia , Brazil, 

Spain , YAR 
93 . Reactivo Dyes 

Iran , Tanzania , Taivan , West Indios, China , Greoco, Spain . 
94 . Azoic Dyes . , Hong Kong , Argentina, Switzerland, New Zealand . 
95 . Vat Dyes . . 

. Hong Kong , Italy , Muscat, USSR , China , Philippinos, France . 
96 . Synthetic Coal Tar Dyos . Bahrain , Liberia , Mauritius, Qatar, Sweeden , USA . 


Dyo Intermediate : 
97. Fluoroscent Brightoning Muscat, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Philippines . 

Agent. 
98. 11. Acid . . . . USA , Sri Lanka. 
49 . Aothraquinone . . UK , ARB , Australia , Canada, Singaporo. 
100 . Benzanthrone . 

Italy , Iraq, USA , 
dui wycloter nedodies 0.C.S. , Argoptioa, Canada , Franco, W . Germany , Kenya, Sri Lanka, 

Tanzania . 


Pesticides and Tormolations 
102 . Zinc Phospides 
103. Insecticides /Pesticides 


Lebanon , Syria, Sudan , Phillippines, Indoncala . 
. lian. Walaysia , USSR , Taiwan, Burma, Ethiopia , China , UK , 

Maxico , Romania 


352 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART 1- SEC . 11 


" 


- 


. 


. 


APPENDIX 24 - Contd . 


(1) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


Tolletrles & Perfumerleg 


104 . Agarbattis 


. 


. 


1- 4 - 1984 


105. Medicated Soaps · 
106 . Synthetic Detergents 
107, Scourding Powder . 


. Congo , Taiwan , Lebanon , Iran , Phillippines, Zaire, Ivory Coast , 

Finland , Afghanistan , Benin , Gebralter, Hungary , Sierraleon . 
· Nigeria , Tunisia , Zaire. 
. Algoria , Mauritius , Ethiopia, Zambia . 

Ethiopia , Mauritius. 


108 . Perfumery and Attars 


Taiwan , Ethiopia, Philippines, Italy, Fiji , Nigeria , Indonesia , 

Brazil . 


109. Hair Oils 


Taiwan , Somalia, Syria , Australia , Ethiopia , Kenya , Aden , Tan . 
zania . 


Cosmetics & Toiletries : 
110. Hair Shampoos , Singapore, UAE , Bahrain, Muscat. 
111. Powder Face . . Bulgaria , Singapore, Japan , UAE , Hungary , USSR , Mauri 

tius , Saudi Arabia . 
112 . Powder Talcum . . Taiwan , Sweeden , Sri Lanka , ARE , Czechoslovakia , Hungary, 

Canada , Iraq , Romania . 
113. Tooth Paste . . . Singapore , Taiwan , UK , Kuwait, Hungary . 
114 . Lipsticks . 

Zaire , Syria , Hungary , Italy , 
115. Toilet Soaps · · Qatar, Afghanistan , Zaire, Hungary , Nepal. 
116 . Soaps Others . . Sri Lanka , W . Germany, Saudi Arabia , Zambia , Ethiopia , 

Maldives . 
117. Hydrogenated Castor Oil Hong Kong , ARE , Bulgaria . 
118 . Dehydratod Castor Oil · Canada, Italy, USSR , China , France. 
119 . Fatty Acid . . . Mauritius, Canada. 
120 . Essential Oils N .E .S. . UK , Sudan, Fiji, Switzerland. 


wa 


[ T11 


भारत का राजपा : प्रसाधारण 


353 


TYLTT 


4 


ZRKET 


APPENDIX 24 - Contd. 


2 


3 


I 


PLASTIC PRODUCT COVERED BY PRODUCT GROUP : C 
Raw Materials 


1 -4 - 1983 


1. Polyethylene Moulding All countries except Saudi Arabia , Sri Lanka . 

Powder (LDPE and HDPE ). 


All countries except Sri Lanka, 


2 . Polystyrene Moulding 

Powder (Impact Grade). 
3 . PVC Compound (Rigid ) 
4 . Phenol Formaldehydo 

Moulding Powder 
5 . Urea Formaldehyde 

Moulding Powder 


All countries except Zambia. 
All countries except Sri Lanka . 


All countries. 


Manufactures : (Processed Goods ) 


1. Expanded Polystyreno All countries except Bangladesh , Burma, FFE (I), Saudi Arabia. 

Products 
2 . Fountain Pens, Ball point All countries except Abu Dhabi, Argentina, Africa (Rest of), 

Pens, Sign Pens, Fibre Tip Australia , Bahrain , Belgium , Bangladesh , Canada , Dubai, 
Pens , etc . 

Egypt, Ethiopia , Fiji, FFEÓ), Finland , Greece, Hongkong , 
Hungary , FRG (W . Germany ), Israel, Indonesia , Iran , Iraq , 
Italy, Japan , Kenya, Kuwait , Lebanon , Malaysia , Mauritius, 
Muscat, Oman, Netherlands, Nigeria , Pakistan , Philippines. 
PDRY (Aden ), Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Singapore, 
Somalia , Sudan , Sri Lanka , Surinam , Switzerland, Syria , Taiwan , 
Tanzania , UK , USA , USSR , Venezuela , W . Indies, Yugos 
lavia , YAR , Zambia . 


3 . Glass Fibre Reinforced All countries except Abu Dhabi, Bangladesh , Burma, Bahrain , 

Polyesters and Manufactures Canada , Dubai, FRG , Iran , Italy , Indonesia , Kenya , Kuwait , 
including Helmets and Epoxy Malaysia , Mauritius , Muscat & Oman , Nigeria , Nepal, Nether 
Resin Pipes . 

lands, Pakistan , Saudi Arabia , Spain , Sri Lanka, Tanzania , 
Thailand, UK , USA , Zambia . 


4 . Laminates ( Phonolic 

Melamine) 


All countries except Afghanistan , Africa (Rest of ), Australia , 

Algeria , Bahrain , Belgium , Bangladesh , Canada , Denmark , 
Dubai, Djibouti, Ethiopia , France, Fiji, FRG , Ghana, Hong 
kong , Japan , Jordan , Kenya , Kuwait, Malaysia , Malawi, 
Mauritius, Muscat & Oman , Netherlands, Nepal, Norway, 
Pakistan , PDRY (Aden ), Qatar, Singapore, Somalia , Sri Lanka, 
Seychelles , Sweden , Tanzania, Thailand , Taiwan , UK , USA , 
Zambia , 


S. Plastic Bangles (with or 

without embellishment). 


All countries except Abu Dhabi, Afghanistan , Africa (Rest of), 
Australia, Argentina, Bahrain , Bangladesh , Dubai, Djibouti, 
Egypt, Fiji, Franco , FRG , Hongkong, Italy, Japan , Konya , 
Kuwait , Liberia , Malaysia, Malawi, Mauritius, Maldivos, 
Muscat & Oman , New Zealand , Nigeria Pakistan , PDRY 
(Aden ), Saudi Arabia , Singapore, Sri Lanka, Spain , Sudan , 
Surinam , Switzerland, Tanzania , Tunisia , UK , USA , W . 
Indics, YAR 


Plastic Donture Material All countrics except Abu Dhabi, Bangladesh , Hongkong, Kuwait, 
and Dental Products, Kenya , Mauritius, Muscat & Oman , Pakistan, Sri Lanka , 

Thailand . 


354 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I - SEC , 1 ] 


+ 


APPENDIX 24 - Contd . 


1-4 - 1983 


G, Fiji, 


Canada, Australia, Afghe 


7. Plastic Electrical Accessories All countries except Abu Dhabi, Australia , Afghanistan , Bahrain . 

with /without metallic compo Bangladesh , Burma , Canada , Cyprus, Dubai, Djibouti, Franco , 
nents ( including Polyethyleno, Egypt, FRG , Fiji, Ghana , Greeco, Hongkong, Indonesia, Iran , 
Molamino Formaldehydo Iraq , Ivory Coast, Jordan , Kenya , Kuwait , Lebanon , Libya , 
Electrical Accoworios ). Malaysia , Malta , Mauritius , Muscat & Oman, Nigeria , Pakistan , 

PDRY (Aden ), Qatar, Saudi Arabia , Spain , Singaporo, Somalia , 
Sri Lanka , Sudan , Syria, Switzerland, Tanzania, Thailand , UK . 
USA , W . Indies, YAR . 


8 . Plastic Imitation Jovollory 


All countries except Abu Dhabi, Africa (Rest of), Argentina , 

Afghanistan , Australia , Austria , Bahrain , Bangladesh , Belgium , 
Cameroon , Canada, Denmark , Dubai, Djibouti , Ethiopia 
Egypt, Fiji , Finland , Franco, FRG , Greeco, Hongkong , Iceland , 
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy , Japan , Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait , 
Liberia , Malaysia , Malawi, Maldives, Mauritius, Mozambique . 
Muscat & Oman , Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria , Qatar, 
Saudi Arabia , Singapore , Somalia , Spain , Surinam , Sweden , Sri 
Lanka , Switzerland , Sudan , Tanzania , Tunisia , UK , USA 
W . Indics , Yugoslavia , YAR . 


9 . Hand Bags, Pursos & othor All countries except Abu Dhabi, Austria , Algeria , Australia , 
PVC Fabricated Goods. Bahrain , Belgium , Bangladesh , Bhutan , Canada , Dubai, Ethio 

pia, Fiji, Franco, FRG , Greoco, Indonesia, Italy, Iraq, Japan , 
Kenya , Kuwait , Malaysia , Malawi, Mauritius, Muscat & 
Oman, Mozambique, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria 
Qatar, Saudi Arabia , Seychelles , Singapore, Sri Lanka , UK , 
USA . YAR , Zaire , Zambia . 


10. Plastic Moulded & Extruded 

Goods 


All countries except Abu Dhabi, Arghanistan , Africa ( Rest of). 

Austria , Australia Bahrain , Belgium , Bangladesh , Barundi, 
Burma, Cameroon , Canada , Cyprus, Czechoslovakia , Denmark , 
Malaysia , Malawi, Malta , Maldives, Mauritius , Morocco , 
Muscat & Oman , Mozambique, Netherlands, Nigeria, Nopal, 
Nov Zealand, Pakistan, Pbilippipes, PDRY (Aden ), Qatar, 
Saudi Arabia , Seychelles, Singapore , Somalia , Spain , Sri Lanka , 
Sudan , Surinam Svoden , Switzerland , Syria , Taiwan , Tanzania 
Thalland , UK , USA , USSR , W . Indies . YAR Yugoslavia 
Zalto, Zambia, Ambabvo, Djibouti, Dubai, Ethiopia , 
Bgypt, PH , Finland , France, FRO , FFEI!, Guana , 
Grocco , Guyana , Hongkong , Hungary, Indonesia , Irun , Iraq 
Iroland, Italy, Japan , Jordan , Konya, Kuvalt, Lebanon , 
Libya, Liborla . 


Sizesse 


France Didonda yaran, Thank 


yang Hond 


11 . Ropos /tvloe / Brtation/ 

Strapplag 


All countrlog except Australia , Bahrain , Bangladesh , Dubai, 

FFBCI), Muscat & Oman , Nigeria, Quatar, Soychelles, Sing 
poro, Sri Lanka , USA , USSR . 


11. kaboola 


lle Italivaary 


All # odottor oncepi Abu Dhabi, Bahrain , Dubai FRG , Hungary, 

Iran, Iraq , Konya , Kuvait Libya , Meucat & Oman , Mauritius , 
PDRY (Adon ) Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Soychollos Slogapore , 
Svoden . 


13 . Plastlo Mouldod Locuro 


AU countries except Abu Dhabi, Australla , Bahralo , Bolglum , 

Bangladesh , Bulgaria , Dahomey, Djibouti , Dubai, Franco, 
PRO , Kovait, Lidorla , Malawi, Muscat & Oman , Norvay, 
Philippines, Qatar, Rumania, Saudi Arabia , Singaporo, Sri 
· Lanka , Svedon , UK , USA , USSR , Yogoslavia . 


TI 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[ ATT |- - T 1] 


भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण 


355 


- 


- - 


- 


-- ---- - - 


- 


- 


APPENDIX 24 - Contd . 


m 


- 


- 


- 


. 


2 


1-4 - 1983 


14 . PVC Gramaphone Record All countries except Abu Dhabi, Afghanistan , Algeria , Argentina , 
& Accessories & Recorded Australia , Bahrain , Bangladesh , Belgium , Brazil, Bulgaria , 
Cassettos, Video Cassettes. Canada, Czechoslovakia , Denmark , Dahomey , Dubai, Ethiopia, 

Egypt, Fiji , France , FRG , Finland , Goana , Guyana , GDR . 
Hongkong, Hungary , Indonesia , Iran , Iraq , Israel, Japan , 
Kenya , Kuwait, Libya , Liberia , Malaysia , Mauritius , Morocco , 
Muscat & Oman , Netherlands, New Zealand , Nigeria , Phillip 
pinos ,Poland , Qatar, Rumania , Saudi Arabia , Senegal, Seychelles, 
Singapore , Spain , Sri Lanka, Surinain , Sweden , Switzerland, 
Tanzania , Thailand, UK , USA , USSR , Venezuela , W . Indies , 

Yogoslavia , FFE (I), Zambia . 
13. Pre- recorded Cassettes , All countries except Abu Dhabi, Africa (Rest of), Australia , 

Bahrain , Belgium , Brazil, Canada, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia , 
Denmark , Dubai, Fiji , Finland , France , FRG , Guana, Ghana , 
Hongkong, Hungary, Ivory Coast, Japan , Kenya , Kuwait , 
Malaysia , Mauritius, Muscat & Oman , Netherlands, New 
Zealand, Norway, Pakistan , Phillippines, Poland , Qatar, Saudi 
Arabia , Singapore, Spain , Sri Lanka , Surinam , Sweden , Switzer 

land, UK , USA , USSR , W . lodies , Zambia 
16 . Video Cassettes . All countries excepi Canada Dubai, Hongkong, Muscat & Oman , 

UK , USA , Saudi Arabia 
17. PVC Pipes and Specials . All countries except Abu Dhabi, Bahrain , Bangladesh , hurma 

Burundi, Dubai, Djibouti, FFE (I), Ghana , Greece, Hongkong 
Iran , Indonesia , Kenya , Kuwait, Libya, Liberia , Malaysia , 
Mauritius , Muscat & Oman , Nepal, Netherlands , Pakistan , 
PDRY (Aden ), Qatar, Saudi Arabia , Singapore, Somalia , Sri 

Lanka , Tanzania , UK , USSR , W . Indics, YAR . 
18 . PVC Foam Products 

All countries except Indonesia , Saudi Arabia , Sri Lanka . 
19. Vaccum Formed Products All countries except Sri Lanka . 
20 . Polyethylene Films and Bags All countries except Abu Dhabi, Africa (Rest of ), Bharain , Bangla 

desh , Dubai, Djibouti, Ethiopia , FFE (I), Hongkong, Kenya, 
Kuvalt, Mauritius , Morocco , Muscat & Oman, Nepal, Nother 
lands, Pakistan , Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka , Singapore, Somalia , 

Tanzania , UK , USA . 
21. HDPB Woven Sacks . . All countries except Dubai, Franco, FRG , Iraq, Kuvalt, Mauri 

tlus , Notherlands PDRY (Aden ), Saudi Arabia , Tanzania , 

Thalland, USA . 
22 . Polyethyleno Rigid & All countries except Abu Dhabi, Afghanistan , Babralo , Bhutan , 
Flexiblo Pipes & Conduite Burma, Dubai, FFE (I), FRO , Kenya , Kuvait, Malaysia ,Muscat 

& Oman , Nopal, Sudan , Sri Lanka , Saudi Arabia , Soychollos , 

Tanzania . 
23 . Motallisod Plastica 

All countries except Australia , Fiji , Goyada , Malaysia , Mauritius , 
Muscat & Oman , Nev Zoaland , Saudi Arabia , Slogapora , 

Syrla , UK , USA , YAR . 
24. Spoctaclos Framos 

All countries except Abu Dhabi, Abstra , Afgbanlatan , Africa 

(Rost on), Australia , Babrain , Bangladosh , Belgium , Botsvana 
(S . A .) Czochoslovakia , Canada , Cameroon , Djibouti, Dubai, 
Ethiopia , Egypt, Fiji, Flpland , Franco , FRG , Ghana , Hong 
Kong, Iodonesia , Iran , Traq , Ireland, Israel, Italy , Ivory Coast, 
Jordan , Konya , Lebanon , Liborla , Libya , Malaysia, Malta , 
Mozambiquo, Malayl, Mauritius , Morocco , Muscat & Oman , 
Nigeria, Philippines , PDRY ( Adon ), Qatar, Saudi Arabla , 
Seychelles Singapore, Somalia , Spain , SN Lanka , Svoden , 
Switzerland , Sudan , Surinam , Syria , Tanzania , Thailand , UK , 
USA , USSR , Uganda, Yugoslavia , YAR , Zairo , Zambia , 
Zimbabvo, 


356 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(PART I - Sec . 1] 


- 


APPENDIX 24 - Contd . 


ора 


1 -4 -- 1983 


3 
25 . PVC Foam Leather Cloth All countries except Abu Dhabi, Africa (Rest of ), Bahrain , Bangla - 

desh , Cameroon , Dubai, Ghana , Kenya , Kuwait, Liberia , 
Malwai, Mauritius , Mozambique , Muscat & Oman , Nigeria , 

Qatar, Saudi Arabia ,Sri Lanka , Tanzania , UK , YAR . 
26. PVC Leather Cloth 

All countries except Afghanistan , Africa (Rest of ), Australia , 

Bangaldesh , Bahrain , Dubai, Ethiopia , Ghana , HongKong, 
Iraq, Konya , Kuwait, Lobanon , Malawi, Mauritius , Mozamn 
bique, Muscat & Oman , Nigeria . PDRY (Adon ), Pakistan , 
Qatar, Saudi Arabia , Şiorra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, 

Sudan , Tanzania , UK , USSR , YAR , Zambia . 
27. Rigid PVC Sheets . . . All countries except Sri Lanka, Yugoslavia . 
28. PVC Sheeting 

All countries except Abu Dhabi, Afghanistan , Africa (Rest of ), 

Australia , Bahrain , Cameroon , Dahomey, Dubai, Egypt, 
Ethiopia , Fiji, Ghana , Hungary, Hong Kong , Iran , Jordan , 
Konya , Kuwait , Liboria , Malawi, Mauritius, Muscat 
Mozambique, Netherlands, New Zealand , Nigeria, Pakistan , 
PDRY (Aden ), Saudi Arabia , Sierra Leone, Singapore, 
Somalia , Spain , Sri Lanka, Sudan , Tanzania, w . Indies , 

YAR , Zaire , Zambia . 
29 . Asbestos Floor Tiles All countries except Africa (Rest of), Cameroon , Dubai, Ethiopia , 

Ghana , Saudi Arabia , Sri Lanka , Tanzania , Qatar, YAR . 
30 . Linoleums ( Felt/Jute Based ) All countries except Bangladesh , Czechoslovakia, Netherlands, 

Sri Lanka , Sudan , USSR , Yugoslavia , 
31. Polyethylene/ Jute 

All countrics except Australia, Belgium , Czechoslovakia, France , 
Combination . 

FRG , Kuwait , Notherlands, New Zealand . 
32. Plastic Brushes . . . All countries except Abu Dhabi, Bahrain , Cyprus, Dubai, Ethiopia , 

Egypt, Fiji, Ghana , Indonesia , Kenya , Kuwait , Malaysia , 
Malawi, Muscat & Oman , Pakistan , Qatar, Saudi Arabia , 

Soychelles , Sri Lanka, USSR , Zaire , Zambia , 
33. Plastic Adhesivo Tapes All countries except Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Kenya , Kuwait , Muscat 

& Oman , Sri Lanka , Saudi Arabia , YAR , Zambia . 
34 . Polyurothano Foam & All countries except Kuwait , Mauritius, Nopal. 

its Products 
35 . Nitro Collulose Cloth All countries except Abu Dhabi, Africa (Rest of ), Bahrain , Dubai, 

Kenya , Kuwait , Malaysia , Muscat & Oman , Qatar, Saudi 

Arabia , Singapore, YAR 
36 . Acrylic Sheets . . . All countries except Kenya . 
37. Polyothylono Coated 

Fabric /Papor . . . All countries except Bangladesh , Kenya, Sri Lanka, Switzerland . 
38 . Friction Dust (Phonolic 

based Polymer) . . . All countries except Australia , Denmark, Thailand . 
39. Motallised Lacquorod 

All countries except Dubai, FRG , Japan , Kuwait, Saudi 
Polyester Film 

Arabia , Singapore, Spain , Swoden , Sri Lanka, USA . 
40 . Dolls , Toys, Gamos of all All countrios except Abu Dhabi, Australia , Bahrain , Belgium , 

typos & Plastic items except Dubai, France , Fiji, Ghana, Iran, Jordan , Konya , Kuwait , 
those ofvood , Paper Machie Malaysia , Mauritius, Muscat & Oman , Nigeria, New Zealand, 
& Rags . . . 

Pakistan , PDRY (Adon ), Qatar, Saudi Arabia , Sri Lanka , 
Seychelles , Somalia, Spain , Singapore, Sudan, USA , UK , 

USSR , W . Indies, YAR , Zaire, 
41 . Acrylic Modified Polyoster Struc 

tural Fibro Reinforcod Panol All countries except It & q . 
42 . Decorativo Toxtured Coat Tilos All countries except Abu Dhabi, Muscat & Oman , Nopal. 

(a ) Stono Finish 
(d ) Glass Finish 


(YTT I - 


1] 


भारत का राजपक्ष : प्रसाधारण 


357 


UVVI 


APPENDIX 24 - Contd . 


(1) 


( 2 ) 


(3 ) 


- 


- - 


TEXTILE PRODUCTS COVERED 
BY PRODUCT GROUPS ‘K AND O 


1 . Handloom Textiles 


. Botswana , Burundi, Congo Republio, Djibouti, Egypt, Gambia 

Guinoa , Libya , Re-Union , Scychelles . 


1-4 - 1983 


2 . Woollen Fabrics 


, 


, Kenya , Mauritius, Sudan , Morocco , Zambia . 


& 


3 . Woollon 

Knitwears 


Acryllic 

Ethiopia , Sabah , Nigeria , Somalia . 
. . Sudan . 


4 . Woollen Blankets 


5 . Shawls & Scarves 


· Malta , Kenya , Libya , Somalia . 


6 . Cotton Piece goods 


7. Cotton Yarn 


. 


. 


. Burundi, Central African Rep ., Gambia , Gabon , Ghana , Guinea , 

Ivory Coast, Lisotho , Morocco , Nigeria , Níger, Togoland , 

Uganda , Zaire . 
. Algeria, Benin , Botswana , Burundi, Cameron Canary Islands , 

Comoroos, Congo Rep ., Contral African Rep ., Ethiopia . 
Gabon , Guinea , Ivory Coast, Kenya , Liberia , Libya , Lisotho , 
Malawi, Mali, Mauritius, Mozambique , Morocco , Namibia 
( S. W . Africa ), Niger, Re- Union Island , Senegal, Seychellies, 
Somalia , Sudan , Swaziland, Spanish (W . Africa ), Tanzania , 
Tunisia , Togoland , Uganda , Zambia , Zaire, Zimbabwe. 


8 . Knitted Cotton Fabrics 


, Algeria , Benin , Botswana , Burundi, Cameron , Canary Islands, 

Comoroos, Congo Rep ., Central African Rep ., Ethiopia , 
Gambia , Gabon , Ghana , Guinea Ivory Goast, Konya , Liberia , 
Libya , Lisotho , Malawi, Mali , Mauritius, Mozambique , 
Morocco , Namibia , (S . W . Africa ), Nigeria , Niger Re-Union 
Island , Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone , Sudan , Swaziland , 
Spanish (W . Africa ), Tanzania , Tunisia, Togoland , Uganda , 
Zambia , Zaire, Zimbabwe . 


9 . Cotton Made -Ups . , 


, Algeria , Benin , Cameroon , Libya , Mali Re-Union Island , Sene 

gal, Sierra Leone , Spanish (S . W . Africa ), Togoland , Zimbabwe. 


358 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART I- SEC . 1] 


APPENDLX 24 


Contd . 


Sl. Description of Export Products 
Nu. 


New Markots 


Dato from 

which 
effectivo 


- 


- 


. 


. - 


- - - , . . - - 


. -- - - - 


- - - - --- - - - - 


- 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - 


1 -4 - 1983 


FOOD PRODUCTS COVERED BY PRODUCT GROUP : G 
1. Green Tea in containers of any size , All countries except United Kingdom , Ireland , West 
defined as China Tea . 

Germany , Netherlands, USSR , Poland , Yugoslavia , 

USA , Canada , ARE , Sudan , Iraq, Iran , Qatar, UAE , 
2. Aromatic teas in packets upto 1 kg . Kuwait , Saudi Arabia , Bahrain , Muscat, Jordan , 

Afghanistan , Japan, Pakistan , Tunisia , Libya , 
Australia and Newzealand . 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[YTT I 


1 ] 


भारत का राजपत्र : प्रसाधारण 


359 


2S 


APPENDIX 24_ Concld . 


II. NEW PRODUCTS 


Sl. Description of Export Product 
No. 


Dato from 
wbich 
effectivo 


- 


- 


- 


- 


1 -4 - 1983 


CHEMICALS AND ALLIED PRODUCTS COVERED BY PRODUCT GROUP : B 
1. Chlorinated rubber paint 
2. Radial Tyros 
3 . - ubber railway pads and mats 
4 . Polyester film 
5. Paper pulp and moulded products 
6 . Meat -cum -Bone meal 


NOTES 1 
(1 ) The Now Markets in respect of Engineering Goods covoled by Product Group A as mentioned at S . Nos . 1 - 21 above 

were notiflod vido Public Notice No. 4 - ITC (PN )/ 84 dated the 1st February 1984. 
(2 ) The New Mzkets in respect of Chemicals and Allied Products covered by Product Group : B as montioned at S . Nos . 

1 - - 57 above were notified vide Public Notice No. 5 - ITC (PN ) /84 dated 1st February 1984 and thosc covered by S . Nos, 

58 - 120 vido Public Notice No. 25 — ITC (PN )/84 dated the 25th May 1984 . 
(3) Tho New Markets in respect of Plastic Products covered by Product Group : C as mentioned at S . Nos. 1 - 42 abovo 

were notified vide Public Notice No. 6 JTC (PN )/84 dated the 1st February 1984. 
( 4 ) Tho Now Markets in respoct of Textilo Products covorod by Product Group : K & O as mentioned at S . Nos. 149 

above were notified vido Public Notico No . 7 - ITC (PN )/ 84 dated the 1st February 1984. 
( 5 ) The Now Markets in respect of Food Products covered by Product Group : G as mentioned at S . Nos . 1 - 2 abov . ; Woro 

notified vide Public Notico No . 14 - ITC (PN )/84 dated the 22nd February 1984 . 
( The New Products in rospect of Chemicals and Allied Products covered by Product Group : B as mentioned at S . Nos. 

1 - 6 abovo Woro notified vido Public Notice No. 5 - ITC (PN ) / 84 dated the 1st February 1984 . 


(3) The New Made Public Noticelor Public Noticed Allied Pro 


MOIPRRND - S /3 58 G1/85 - TSS I – 8 -5 -85 – 800 


