REGISTERED No. D . 222 


MATA 


The Gazette 


*** 


batavi Endrá 


LO 


9442 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No . $ 1] 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1982 


EN 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Ex Taordinary were published upto the 7th 
December , 1960 - 


Issue 


No . and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No . 


247 S. O . 2913 , dated 2nd 

December , 1960 . 


Ministry of Finance 


The President constituting 
Finance Commission . 


248 


S . O . 2914 , dated 
December , 1960 


3rd 


Approval 
therein . 


of 


Alm 


Ministry of Infor - 
mation and Broad 
casting 


specified 


249 S . O . 2915 , dated 3rd 

December , 1960 . 


Ministry of Finance . 


The Finance Commission (Salar 

ies and Allowances ) Amendment 
Rules , 1960 . 


250 


S . O . 2916 , da cd 5th 

December, 1960 . 


Election Commission , 

India . 


List of contesting candidates in 

the election to the House of the 
People from the Rao Barell 
Parliamentary Constituency . 


251 


S . O . 2993 , dated 6th 

December, 1960 . 


Ministry of Food and 
Agricul ure . 


Direction that powers in relation 
to pricos, stocks and transport of 
cattle fodder specified therein 
shall also be exercisable by the 
Government of Rajasthan . 


252 S . O . 2994, datod 7th 

December , 1960 . 


Election Commission , 

India . 


Amendment to $ . O . 2149 , dated 
26th September , 1959 . 


Coples of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications , Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes . 

( 3493 ) 


3404 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 [PART II 


PART II — Section 3 - Sub -section (ii) 


Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations of Union Territories ). 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


New Delhi- 11, the 13th December 1960 


S . O . 2996 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3 (b ) of the table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Shri Krishna Singh , grandson of the ruler of Sitamau for 
the purposes of that entry and directs that the cxemption shall be valid in respect 
of one gun / rifle and one pistol / revolver . 


[ No . 16 / 19 / 60 - P . IV .) 


C . P . S . MENON , Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 


(Department of Expenditure ) 


New Delhi - 2, the 2nd December 1960 


S . O . 2997 . - In pursuance of clause ( 3 ) of article 77 of the Constitution and of 
all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the President is pleased to make the 
following amendment in the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules , 1958 ( publish 
ed as S . O . 2614 in the Gazette of India dated the 20th December , 1958 ) , name 
ly : 


Amendment No. 79 


In the said Rules , the existing entry in column 4 against item No. 10 of the 
Annexure to Schedule V , may be substituted by the following: 


" In all cases except those mentioned below , the land required for Govern 

ment use shall be acquired with the previous consent of the Ministry 
of Works Housing and Supply or subject of such order as that 
Ministry may issue from time to time: - 


( a ) The Department of Communications and Civil Aviation may acquire 

land required for works under its control. 


( b ) Administrators may acquire land provided the cost thereof is in 

cluded in a scheme and the total expenditure on the scheme is with 
in the powers of sanction of the Administrators . Such acquisition 


SEC , 3 (ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 3495 


would be subject to the association with the proposal of the local 
Public Works authorities who would certify the requirements of 
land as reasonable " . 


[No . F . 12 (41) - E . II ( A ) /60. ] 


New Delhi-2 , the 3rd December 1960 


S . O . 2998 . - In pursuance of clause ( 3 ) of articlc 77 of the Constitution and of 
all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the President is pleased to make the 
following amendment in the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules, 1958 , ( publish 
ed as S . O . 2614 in the Gazette of India dated the 20th December, 1958 ) namely : 


Amendment No. 80 


The folowing words occurring in sub - clause ( f) of rule 9 ( 1 ) [as inserted by 
this Ministry s Notification No, F 12 ( 70 ) - E , II ( A ) 760 dated the 2nd August, 1960 ] 
shall be deleted : 


" or funds have been specifically included in the budget for the purpose " . 


[No. F . 12 (97 ) - E . II ( A ) /60 . ) 


C . R . KRISHNAMURTHI, Dy . Secy . 


(Dopartment of Expenditure) 


New Delhi-2 , the 6th December 1960 


S . O . 2999 . - In pursuance of clause ( 3 ) of article 77 of the Constitution and of 
all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the President is pleased to make the 
following amendment in the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules , 1958 ( publish 
ed as $ . O . 2614 in the Gazette of India dated the 20th December, 1958 ) namely : - - 


Amendment No. 81. 


I. In Schedule I to the Rules, the entry "Master , Assay Department and 

Silver Refinery, Calcutta at Serial No. 4 under " D -Ministry of 
Finance ( Economic Affairs Department ) " may be deleted : — 


II. In this Ministry s notification No. 19 ( 18 ) - EII ( A ) / 60 , dated the 18th Octo 

ber , 1960 ( Amendment No. 73 ) the date of effect viz . “ 4th October, 
1960 " may be substituted by " 8th September, 1960" . 


[ No. F . 18 ( 18 ) -EII (A ) /60.] 


C . P , MITTAL , Under Secy . 


2406 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 [Part 11 


(Department of Expenditure ) 

(Establishment Division ) 


New Delhi, the 1st December 1960 


So , 3000 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution , and of all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf , the President, after consultation with the Comptroller and 
Auditor -General in respect of persons employed in the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department, hereby makes the following rules , namely : - - 


Short Title and Definitions 
1 . Short_ title and commencement. -- ( a ) These rules may be called the General 
Provident Fund (Central Services ) Rules, 1960 . 

(b ) They shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st April , 1960 . 
2 . Definitions .- ( 1) In these rules unless the context otherwise requires, 
( a ) Account Orcer means such officer as may be appointed in this behall 

by the Comptroller and Auditor General, or the Pay and Accounts 
Oficer where a separate Pay and Accounts Office exists except that 
in relation to Class IV employees the head of his office or the Pay 
and Accounts Officer , as the case may be , shall be the Account 

Officer , 
( b ) Save as otherwise expressly provided emoluments means pay , leave 

salary or subsistence grant as defined in the Fundamental Rules, and 
includes dearness pay appropriate to pay , leave salary or subsistence 
grant, if admissible , and any remuneration of the nature of pay 

received in respect of foreign service , 
( c ) Family means 
( i ) in the case of a male subscriber , the wife or wives and children of 

& subscriber , and the widow , or widows, and children of a deceas 
ed son of the subscriber ; provided that if a subscriber proves that 
his wife has been judicially separated from him or has ceased 
under the customary law of the community to which she belongs 
to be entitled to maintenance she shall henceforth be deemed to 
be no longer a member of the subscriber s family in matters to 
which these rules relate unless the subscriber subsequently inti 
mates in writing to the Account Officer that she shall continue 

to be so regarded ; 
( ii ) in the case of a female subscriber , the husband and children of a 

subscriber, and the widow or widows and children of a deceased 
son of a subscriber : provided that if a subscriber by notice in 
writing to the Account Officer expresses her desire to exclude 
her husband from her family , the husband shall henceforth be 
deemed to be no longer a member of the subscriber s family in 
matters to which these rules relate, unless the subscriber subse 

quently cancels such notice in writing. 
NOTE . — Child means a legitimate child and includes an adopted child , 

where adoption is recognised by the personal law governing the 

subscriber . 
( d ) Fund means the General Provident Fund . 
( e ) Leave means any variety of leave recognised by the Fundamental 

Rules or the Civil Service Regulations or the Revised Leave Rules, 

1933 . 
( 1) Year means a financial year. 
( 2 ) Any other expression used in these rules which is defined either in the 
Provident Funds Act, 1925 ( 19 of 1925 ) , or in the Fundamental Rules is used 
in the sense therein defined. 

( 3 ) Nothing in these rules shall be deemed to have the effect of terminat 
ing the existence of the General Provident Fund as heretofore existing or of 
constituting any new Fund . 


Sea . 8 ( 11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960, AGRAHAYANA 20, 1842 3497 


Constitution of the Fund 
3 . Constitution of the Fund. - ( 1 ) The Fund shall be maintained in rupees . 

( 2 ) All sums paid into the Fund under these rules shall be credited in the 
books of Government to an account named " The General Provident Fund ” . 
Sums of which payment has not been taken within six months after they become 
payable under these rules shall be transferred to " Deposits " at the end of the 
year and treated under the ordinary rules relating to deposits. 

4 . Conditions of eligibility . All temporary Government servants, other than 
re- employed pensioners , after a continuous service of one year and all perma 
nent Government servants shall subscribe to the Fund : 

Provided that no such seryant as has been required or permitted to subscribe 
to a contributory provident fund shall be eligible to join or continue as a sub 
scriber to the Fund , while he retains his right to subscribe to such a fund . 

NOTE. - Apprentices and Probationers shall be treated as temporary Govern 
ment servants for the purpose of this rule. 

Nominations 
3 . Nominations , — ( 1 ) A subscriber shall at the time of joining the Fund , 
send to the Account Officer , a nomination conferring on one or more _ persons 
the right to receive the amount that may stand to his credit in the Fund , in 
the event of his death , before that amount has become payable or having become 
payable has not been paid : 

Provided that if , at the time of making the nomination , the subscriber has a 
family, the nomination shall not be in favour of any person or persons other 
than the members of his family : 

Provided further that the nomination made by the subscriber in respect of 
any other provident fund to which he was subscribing before joining the Fund 
shall, if the amount to his credit in such other fund has been transferred to 
hig credit in the Fund , be deemed to be a nomination duly made under this 
rule until he makes a nomination in accordance with this rule . 

( 2 ) If a subscriber nominates more than one person under sub - rule ( 1 ) , 
he shall specify in the nomination the amount or share payable to each of the 
nominees in such manner as to cover the whole of the amount that may stand 
to his credit in the Fund at any time. 

( 3 ) Every nomination shall be in such one of the Forms set forth in the 
First Schedule as is appropriate in the circumstances . 

( 4 ) A gubscriber may at any time cancel a nomination by sending a notice 
in writing to the Account Officer. The subscriber shall, along with such notice 
or separately , send a fresh nomination made in accordance with the provisions 
of this rule . 
( 5 ) A subscriber may provide in a nomination 
( a ) in respect of any specified nominee , that in the event of his pre 

deceasing the subscriber , the right conferred upon that nominee shall 
pass to such other person or persons as may be specified in the 
nomination , provided that such other person or persons shall, if the 
subscriber has other members of his family , be such other member 
or members . Where the subscriber confers such a right on more 
than one person under this clause , he shall specify the amount or 
share payable to each of such persons in such a manner as to cover 

the whole of the amount payable to the nominee. 
( b ) that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of the happen 

Ing of a contingency specified therein ; 
Provided that if at the time of making the nomination the subscriber has no 

family , he shall provide in the nomination that It shall become invalid 

in the event of his subsequently acquiring a family : 
Provided further that if at the time of making the nomination the sub 

scriber has only one member of the family , he shall provide in the 
nomination that the right conferred upon the alternate nominee under 
clause ( a ) shall become invalid in the event of his subsequently 
acquiring other member or members in his family . 


2498 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 [Part II 


( 6 ) Immediately on the death of a nominee in respect of whom no special 
provision has been made in the nomination under clause ( a ) of sub - rule ( 5 ) or 
on the occurrence of any event by reason of which the nomination becomes 
invalid in pursuance of clause (b ) of sub - cule (5 ) or the proviso thereto , the 
subscriber shall send to the Account Officer a notice in writing cancelling the 
nomination , together with a fresh nomination made in accordance with the provi 
sions of this rule , 

(7 ) Every nomination made, and every notice of cancellation given , by a 
subscriber shall, to the extent that it is valid , take effect on the date on which 
it is received by the Account Officer . 

Subscriber s Accounts 
6 . Subscriber s account. - An account shall be prepared in the name of each 
subscriber and shall show the amount of his subscriptions with interest thereon 
calculated as prescribed in sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 11 as well as advances and with 
drawals from the Fund , 

Conditions and Rates of Subscriptions 
7 . Conditions of subscriptions . - ( 1 ) A subscriber shall subscribe monthly to 
the Fund except during the period when he is under suspension ; 

Provided that a subscriber may , at his option , not subscribe during any 
period of leave, other than leave on average pay or earned leave of less than 
one month or 30 days duration , as the case may be: 

Provided further that a subscriber on reinstatement after a period passed 
under suspension shall be allowed the option of paying in one sum , or in instal 
ments , any sum not exceeding the maximum amount of arrear subscriptions pay 
able for that period , 

NOTE . Class III and Class IV employees of the Survey of India who are sent 
on departmental leave nced not subscribe to the Fund , during the period of such 
leave. 

( 2 ) The subscriber shall intimate his election not to subscribe during leave in 
the following manner : - 
( a ) if he is an officer who draws his own pay bills , by making no deduc 

tion on account of subscription in his first pay bill drawn after 

proceeding on leave ; 
( b ) if he is not an officer who draws his own pay bills , by written com 

munication to the head of his office before he proceeds on leave. 
Failure to make due and timely intimation shall be deemed to con 

stitute an election to subscribe . 
The option of a subscriber intimated under this sub - rule shall be final. 
( 3 ) A subscriber who has , under rule 32 withdrawn the amount standing to 
his credit in the Fund shall not subscribe to the Fund after such withdrawal unless 
he returns to duty . 

8 . Rates of subscription .- ( 1 ) The amount of subscription shall be fixed by 
the subscriber himself, subject to the following conditions, namely : 

( a ) It shall be expressed in whole rupees . 
( b ) It may be any sum , so expressed , not less than 6 per cent of his emolu 

ments and not more than his total emoluments : 
Proyided that in the case of a subscriber who has previously been subscrib 

ing to a Government Contributory Provident Fund at the higher rate 
of 8 1 / 3 per cent, it may be any sum , so expressed , not less than 
8 1 / 3 per cent of his emoluments and not more than his total emolu 

ments : 
Provided further that in the case of Class IV employees the minimum rate 

of subscription shall be Rs . 4 / - a month in the case of those draw 
ing a pay of less than Rs. 75 / - a month and Rs. 5 / - a month in the 

case of others . 
( c ) When a Government servant elects to subscribe at the minimum rate 

of 6 per cent or 8 1 / 3 per cent, as the case may be, the fraction of 
a rupee will be rounded to the nearest whole rupee , 50 np . counting 
as the next higher rupee. 


vided that in overnment may be 


Sec , 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 3499 


( 2 ) For the purpose of sub -rule (1 ) the emoluments of a subsriber shall be 
( a ) in the case of a subscriber who was in Government service on the 

31st March of the preceding year, the emoluments to which he was 

entitled on that date : 
Provided that , 
( i ) if the subscriber was on leave on the said date and elected not to 

subscribe during such lcave or was under suspension on the said 
date , his emoluments shall be the emoluments to which he was 

entitled on the first day after his return to duty ; 
( ii ) if the subscriber was on deputation out of India on the said date 

or was on leave on the said date and continues to be on leave 
and has elected to subscribe during such leave, his emoluments 
shall be the emoluments to which he would have been entitled had 

he been on duty in India ; 
( b ) In the case of a subscriber who was not in Government service on the 

31st March of the preceding year , the emoluments to which he was 

entitled on the day he joins the Fund , 
( 3 ) The subscriber shall intimate the fxation of the amount of his monthly 
subscription in each year in the following manner : 
( a ) If he was on duty on the 31st March of the preceding year, by the 

deduction which he makes in this behalf from his pay bill for that 

month ; 
( b ) If he was on leave on the 31st March of the preceding year , and elect 

ed no : to subscribe during such leave, or was under suspension on 
that date , by the deduction which he makes in this behalf from his 

first pay bill after his return to duty ; 
( c ) If he has entered Government service for the first time during the 

year, by the deduction which he makes in this behalt, from his pay 

bill for the month during which he joins the Fund ; 
( d ) If he was on leave on the 31st March of the preceding year, and con 

tinues to be on leave and has elected to subscribe during such leave , 
by the deduction which he causes to be made in this behalf from 

his salary bill for that month ; 
( e ) If he was on foreign service on the 31st March of the preceding year, 

by the amount credited by him into the treasury on account of sub 

scription for the month of April in the current year . 
(4 ) The amount of subscription so fixed may be enhanced or reduced once 
at any time during the course of a year : 

Provided that when the amount of subscription is so reduced , it shall not be 
less than the minimum prescribed in sub - rule ( 1 ) : 

Provided further that if a subscriber is on duty for a part of a month and 
on leave for the remainder of that month and if he has elected not to subscribe 
during leave, the amount of the subscription payable shall be proportionate to 
the number of days spent on duty in the month . 

9 . Transfer to forelgn service or deputation out of India . -- When a subscriber 
is transferred to foreign service or sent on deputation out of India , he shall 
remain subject to the rules of the Fund in the same manner as if he were not 
so transferred or sent on deputation . 


Realisation of Subscriptions 
10 . Realisation of subscription , - ( 1 ) When emoluments are drawn from a 
Government treasury in India or from an authorized office of disbursement out 
aide India , recovery of subscriptions on account of these emoluments and of the 
principal and interest of advances shall be made from the emoluments them 
selves. 

( 2 ) When emoluments are drawn from any other source the subscriber shall 
forward his dues monthly to the Account Officer , 

( 3 ) If a subscriber fails to subscribe with effect from the date on which he 
is required to join the Fund or is in default in any month or months during the 
course of a year otherwise than as provided in rule 7, the total amount due to 


3500 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 [PART II 


the Fund on account of arrears of subscription shall, with interest thereon at 
the rate provided in rule 11 , forthwith be paid by the subscriber to the Fund 
or in default be ordered by the Account Omcer to be recovered by deduction 
from the emoluments of the subscribor by instalments or otherwise, as may be 
directed by the authority competent to sanction an adyance for the grant of 
which special reasons are required under sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 12 : 

Provided that the subscribers whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest 
shall not be required to pay any interest. 

Interest 
11. Interest. - ( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of sub - rule (5 ) , Government shall 
pay to the credit of the account of a subscriber interest at such rate as may be 
determined for each year according to the method of calculation prescribed from 
time to time by the Government of India : 

Provided that, if the rate of interest determined for a year is less than 4 per 
cent, all subscribers to the Fund in the year preceding that for which the rate 
has for the first time been fixed at less than 4 per cent, shall be allowed interest 
at 4 per cent: 

Provided further that a subscriber who was previously subscribing to any 
other provident fund of the Central Government and whose subscriptions, together 
with interest thereon , have been transferred to his credit in this Fund under 
rule 36 , shall also be allowed interest at 4 per cent, it he had been receiving 
that rate of interest under the rules of such other Fund under a provision similar 
to that of the first proviso to this rule. 

( 2 ) Interest shall be credited with effect from last day in each year in the 
following manner : 
( i) on the amount to the credit of a subscriber on the last day of the 

preceding year , less any sums withdrawn during the current year 

interest for twelve months ; 
( 1 ) on sums withdrawn during the current year - interest from the begin 

ning of the current year up to the last day of the month preceding 

the month of withdrawal; 
(11) on all sums credited to the subscriber s account after the last day of 

the preceding year - interest from the date of deposit up to the end 

of the current year ; 
(iv ) the total amount of interest shall be rounded to the nearest whole 

rupee , ( fifty naye paise counting as the next higher rupee ) : 
Provided that when the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber has 

become payable , interest shall thereupon be credited under this rule 
in respect only of the period from the beginning of the current year 
or from the date of deposit , as the case may be, up to the date on 
which the amount standing to the crcdit of the subscriber became 

payable . 
( 3 ) In this rule , the date of deposit shall in the case of a recovery from emolu 
ments be deemed to be the first day of the month in which it is recovered , and 
in the case of an amount forwarded by the subscriber , shall be deemed to be the 
firgt day of the month of receipt, if it is received by the Account Officer before 
the Afth day of that month , but if it is received on or after the fifth day of that 
month , the first day of the next succeeding month : 

Provided that where there has been a delay in the drawal of pay or leave 
salary and allowances of a subscriber and consequently the recovery of his 
subscription towards the Fund , the interest on such subscriptions shall 
be payable from the month in which the pay or leave salary of the subscriber 
was due under the rules, irrespective of the month in which it was actually 
drawn . 

( 4 ) In addition to any amount to be paid under rules 31, 32 or 33 interest 
thereon up to the end of the month preceding that in which the payment is 
made , or up to the end of the sixth month after the month in which such amount 
became payable whichever of these periods be less , shall be payable to the person 
to whom such amount is to be paid : 

Provided that where the Account Officer has intimated to that person ( or 
his agent ) a date on which he is prepared to make payment in cash , or has posted 
a cheque in payment to that person , interest shall be payable only up to the end 


See,SM)THE GAZETTE O 


Sec, 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 3501 


of the month preceding the date so intimated , or the date of posting the cheque, 
as the case may be. 

( 5 ) Interest shall not be credited to the account of a subscriber if he informs 
the Account Officer that he does not wish to receive it; but if he subsequently 
asks for interest , it shall be credited with effect from the first day of the year 
in which he asks for it. 

(6 ) The interest on amounts which under sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 10 , sub -rule 
(5 ) of rulę 13 , sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 20 , sub - rule ( 4 ) of rule 22 , sub - rule ( 1 ) of 
rule 24 , sub - rule ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of rule 25, rulc 31, or rule 32 arc replaced to the 
credit of the subscriber in the Fund , shall be calculated at such rates as may be 
successively prescribed under sub - rulc ( 1 ) of this rule and so far as may be 
in the manner described in this rule , 

Advances from the Fund 
12 . Advance from the Fund .- ( 1) The approprịate sanctioning authority may 
sanction the payment to any subscriber of an advance consisting of a sum of 
whole rupees and not exceeding in amount three months pay or half the amount 
standing to his credit in the Fund , whichever is less , for one or more of the 
following purposes : 
( a ) to pay cxpenses in connection with the illness or a disability , includ 

ing where necessary , the travelling expenses of the subscriber or 

any person actually dependent on him ; 
( b ) to meet the cost of higher education , including where necessary , the 

travelling expenses of the subscriber or any person actually depen 

dent on him in the following cases , namely : 
( 1) for education outside India for an academic , technical, professional 

or vocational course beyond the High School stage and 
( li) for any medical, engineering or other technical or specialised course 

in India beyond the High School stage, provided that the course 

of study is for not less than three years ; 
( c ) to pay obligatory expenses on a scale appropriate to the status which 

by customary usage the subscriber has to incur in connection with 
marriages or other ceremonics of himself or of his children or of 

any other person actually dependent on him : 
Provided that the condition of actual dependence shall not apply in the 

case of a son or daughter of the subscriber ; 


on a scalehuse to include this c 


( d ) to meet the cost of legal proceedings instituted by the subscriber for 

vindicating his position in regard to any allegations made against 
him in respect of any act done or purporting to be done by him 
in the discharge of his official duty , the advance in this case being 
available in addition to any advance admissible for the same purpose 
from any other Government source : 


Provided that the advance under this sub - clause shall not be admissible to 

a subscriber whọ institutes legal proceedings in any court of law 
either in respect of any matter unconnected with his official duty 
or against Government in respect of any condition of service or 

penalty imposed on him ; 
( e ) to meet the cost of his defence where the subscriber is prosecuted 

by Government in any court of law or where the subscriber engages 
a legal practitioner to defend himself in an enquiry in respect of 
any alleged official misconduct on his part, 


(2 ) An advance shall not, except for special reasons to be recorded in writing 
be granted to any subscriber in excess of the limit laid down in sub - rule ( 1 ) or 
until repayment of the last instalment of any previous advance . 


NOTE 1.--- For the purpose of this rule, pay includes dearness pay , where 
admissible . 


NOTE 2 . — The appropriate sanctioning authority for the purpose of this rule 
Is specifled in the Fifth Schedule . 


3502 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960, AGRAHAYANA 28, 1882 (Part II 


13 . Recovery of advances . — ( 1 ) An advance shall be recovered from the sub 
@ criber in such number of equal monthly instalments as the sanctioning authority 
may direct ; but such number shall not be less than twelve unless the subscriber 
80 elects and more than twenty - four, în special cases where the amount of 
advance exceeds three months pay of the subscriber under sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 
12, the sanctioning authority may fx such number of instalments to be more than 
twenty - four but in no case more than thirty - six A subscriber may , at his option , 
repay more than one instalment in a month . Each instalment shall be a number 
of whole rupees , the amount of the advance being raised or reduced , if necessary , 
to admit of the fixation of such instalments . 

( 2 ) Recovery shall be made in the manner prescribed in rule 10 for the realisa 
tion of subscriptions, and shall commence, on the first occasion after the advance 
is made on which the subscriber draws pay , or remuneration on foreign service, 
for a full month . Recovery shall not be made, except with the subscribers con 
sent while he is on leave or in receipt of subsistence grant and may be postponed , 
on the subscriber s written request, by the sanctioning authority during the 
recovery of an advance of pay granted to the subscriber . 

( 3 ) If more than one advance has been made to a subscriber, each advance 
shall be treated separately for the purpose of recovery . 

( 4 ) ( a ) After the principal of the advance has been fully repaid , interest shall 
be paid thereon at the rate of one - fifth per cent of the principal for each month 
or broken portion of a month during the period between the drawal and complete 
repayment of the principal : 

Provided that subscribers whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest shall 
not be required to pay into the Fund any additional instalments on account of 
interest on advances granted to them from the fund , 

( b ) Interest shall ordinarily be recovered in one instalment in the month after 
complete repayment of the principal ; but if the period referred to in clause ( a ) 
exceeds twenty months, interest may, if the subscriber so desires, be recovered 
in two equal monthly instalments . The method of recovery shall be that pres 
cribed in sub - rule ( 2 ) . Payments shall be rounded to the nearest rupee in the 
manner prescribed in clause ( iv ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 11 . 

( 5 ) If an advance has been granted to a subscriber and drawn by him and 
the advance is subsequently disallowed before repayment is completed , the whole 
or balance of the amount withdrawn shall, with interest at the rate provided 
in rule 11, forthwith be repaid by the subscriber to the Fund , or in default, be 
ordered by the Account Officer to be recovered by deduction from the emolu 
ments of the subscriber in a lump sum or in monthly instalments not exceeding 
twelve as may be directed by the authority competent to sanction an advance for 
the grant of which , spccial reasons are required under sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 12: 

Provided that subscribers whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest shall 
not be required to pay any interest. 

( 6 ) Recoveries made under this rule shall be credited as they are made to 
the subscriber s account in the Fund . 

14 . Wrongful use of advance . Notwithstanding anything contained in these 
rules, if the sanctioning authority is satisfied that money drawn as an advance 
from the Fund under rule 12 has been utilised for a purpose other than that for 
which sanction was given to the drawal of the money , the amount in question , 
shall with interest at the rate provided in rule 11 forthwith bc repaid by the 
subscriber to the Fund , or in default, be ordered to be recovered by deduction in 
one sum from the emoluments of the subscriber even if he be on leave. If the 
total amount to be repaid be more than half the subscriber s emoluments 
recoveries shall be made in monthly instalments of moities of his emoluments 
till the entire amount is repaid by him . 


NOTE .-- The term emoluments in this rule does not include subsistence grant . 


Withdrawals from the Fund 


15 . Withdrawal from the Fund ( 1 ) Subject to the conditions specified therein 
withdrawals may be sanctioned by the authorities competent to sanction an 
advance for special reasons under sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 12, at any time after the 
completion of twenty five years of service ( including broken periods of service, 


SEC , 9 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 3503 


if any ) of a subscriber or within five years before the date of his retirement on 
superannuation , whichever is earlier , from the amount standing to his credit in 
the Fund, for one or more of the following purposes , namely : 
( a ) Mecting the cost of higher education , including where necessary, the 

travelling expenses of any child of the subscriber in the following 

cases, namely : 
( i) for education outside India for academic , technical, professional or 

vocational course beyond the High School stage , and 
( ii ) for any medical, engineering or other technical or specialised course 

in India beyond thc High School stage, provided that the course of 

study is for not less than three years . 
( b ) Meeting the expenditure in connection with the marriage of the sub 

scriber s sons or daughters and if he has no daughter , of any other 

female relation dependent on him . 
( c ) Meeting the expenses in connection with the illness , including where 

necessary , the travelling expenses , of the subscriber or any person 

actually dependent on him , 
( d ) Building or acquiring a suitable house for his residence including the 

cost of the site or repaying any outstanding amount on account of 
loan expressly taken for this purpose before the date of receipt of 
the application for withdrawal but not earlier than twelve months 
of that date , or reconstructing , or making additions or alterations to 

a house already owned or acquired by a subscriber , 
( e ) Purchasing a house - site or repaying any outstanding amount on 

account of loan expressly taken for this purpose before the date of 
receipt of the application for the withdrawal but not earlier than 

twelve months of that date . 
( f ) For constructing a house on a site purchased utilising the sum withdrawn 

under clause ( e ) : 
Provided that a subscriber who has availed himself of an advance under the 

Scheme of the Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply , for the grant 
of advances for house - building purpose, or has been allowed any 
assistance in this regard from any other Government source , shall 
not be eligible for the grant of Anal withdrawal under clause ( d ) , 
( c ) and ( f ) except for the express purpose of repayment of any loan 

taken under the aforesaid scheme. 
( 2 ) The actual withdrawal from the Fund shall be made only on receipt of an 
authorisation from the Account Officer concerned who will arrange this as soon 
as the formal sanction of the sanctioning authority has been issued . 


16 . Conditions for withdrawal. - ( 1 ) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber at 
any one time for one or more of the purposes specified in rule 15 from the amount 
standing to his credit in the Fund shall not ordinarily exceed one -half of such 
amount or six months pay, whichever is less . The sanctioning authority may , 
however , sanction the withdrawal of an amount in excess of this limit up to 
3 / 4ths of the balance at his credit in the Fund having due regard to ( 1) the object 
for which the withdrawal is being made ( li ) the status of the subscriber and ( iii ) 
the amount to his credit in the Fund, 


( 2 ) A subscriber who has been permitted to withdraw money from the Fund 
under rule 15 shall satisfy the sanctioning authority within a reasonable period 
as may be specified by that authority that the money has been utilised for the 
purpose for which it was withdrawn , and if he fails to do so , the whole of the 
sum so withdrawn , or so much thereof as has not been applied for the purpose for 
which it was withdrawn shall forthwith be repaid in one lump sum together with 
interest thereon at the rate determined under rule 11 by the subscriber to the 
Fund , and in default of such payment, it shall be ordered by the sanctioning 
authority to be recovered from his emoluments either in a lump sum or in such 
number of monthly Instalments , as may be determined by the President, 


( 3 ) Nothing in sub - rule ( 2 ) shall be deemed to require a subscriber whose 
deposits in the Fund carry no interest, to pay any interest on any sum repayablo 
by him under that sub - rule . 


3504 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1582 [PART II 


Payment towards Insurance Policies and Family Pension Funds 
17 . Payment towards Insurance Policies . Subject to the conditions herein 
after contained in rules 18 to 28 : 
( a ) (i ) subscriptions to a family pension fund approved in this behalf by 

the President; or 

( il) payments towards a policy of life insurance , 
may, at the option of a subscriber , be substituted in whole or part for 

subscriptions due to the Fund ; 
( b ) the amount of subscriptions with interest thereon standing to the 

credit of a subscriber in the Fund may be withdrawn to mect 
( i) a payment towards a policy of life insuranca ; 
( ii ) the purchase of a single payment insurance policy ; 
( ili ) the payment of a single premium or subscriptions to a family pension 

fund approved in this behalf by the President : 
Provided that no amount shall be withdrawn ( 1 ) before the details of the 
proposed policy have been submitted to the Account Officer and accepted by him 
Fag suitable or ( 2 ) to meet any payment or purchase made or effected more than 
three months before the withdrawal, or ( 3 ) in excess of the amount required to 
meet a premium or subscription actually due for payment within three months of 
the date of withdrawal: 

Provided further that payments towards an educational endowment policy 
may not be substituted for subscriptions to the Fund and that no amounts may 
be withdrawn to meet any payment or purchase in respect of such a policy it 
Hhat policy is due for payment in whole or part before the subscriber s age of 
normal superannuation : 

Provided further that amounts withdrawn ghall be rounded to the nearest 
whole rupee . 

18 . Number of policies that can be financed from the Fund ( 1 ) The number 
of policies in respect of which substitution for subscriptiong due to the Fund or 
withdrawal of subscriptions from the Fund may be permitted under rule 17, shall 
not exceed four ; 

Provided that where immediately before the 22nd June, 1953 , substitution for 
Isubscription due to the Fund or withdrawal of subscriptions from the Fund , was 
permitted in respect of more than four policies , such substitution or withdrawal 
shall continue to be permitted in respect of those policies . 

( 2 ) The premium for a policy [ including any policy referred to in the proviso 
to sub - rule ( 1 ) ] in respect of which withdrawal of subscriptions from the Fund 
may be permitted under rule 17 shall not be payable otherwise than annually . 

Explanation . In computing the maximum number of policies specified in sub 
rule ( 1 ) , policies which have matured or have been converted into paid up policies 
shall be excluded . 

19 . Payment of difference between substituted payments and minimum sub 
seriptions. - ( 1 ) If the total amount of any subscriptions or payments substituted 
under clause ( a ) of rule 17 is less than the amount of the minimum subscription 
payable to the Fund under sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 , the difference shall be rounded 
to the nearest rupee in the manner provided in clause ( iv ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 
11 and paid by the subscriber as a subscription to the Fund. 

( 2 ) If the subscriber withdraws any amount standing to his credit in the Fund 
for any of the purposes specified in clause (b ) of rule 17 , he shall, subject to his 
option under clause ( a ) of that rule , continue to pay to the Fund the subscription 
payable under rule 8 . 

20 . Reduction of subscription in certain cases , - ( 1 ) A subscriber who desires 
Mo substitute a subscription or payment under clause ( a ) of rule 17 , may reduce 
his subscription to the Fund accordingly : 
Provided that the subscriber shall 
( a ) intimate to the Account Ofcer on his pay bill or by letter the fact of, 

and reason for , the reduction ; 
( b ) send to the Account Officer , within such period as the Account Officer 

may require, receipts or certified copies of receipts in order to satisfy 
the Account Officer that the amount by which the subscription has 
been reduced was duly applied for the purposes specified in clause ( a ) 
of rule 17 . 


SEQ, 3 ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 3505 


( 2 ) A subscriber whọ desires to withdraw any amount under clause (b ) of 
rule 17 shall 

( a ) intimate the reason for the withdrawal to the Account Officer by letter ; 
( b ) make arrangements with the Account Officer for the withdrawal; 
( C ) send to the Account Officer , within such period as the Account Officer 

may require , receipts or certificd copies of receipts in order to satisfy 
the Account Officer , that the amount withdrawn was duly applied for 

the purposes specified in clause (b ) of rule 17 . 
( 3 ) The Account Officer shall order the recovery of any amount by which 
subscriptions have been reduced , or of any amount withdrawn , in respect of 
which he has not been satisfied in the manner required by clause ( b ) of sub - rule 
( 1 ) and clause ( c ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) , with interest thereon at the rate provided in 
rule 11 from the emoluments of the subscriber and place it to the credit of the 
subscriber in the Fund. 

21 . Government not to make payments to insurer on behalf of subscribers . 
( 1 ) Government shall not make any payments on behalf of subscribers to Insurance 
Companies nor take steps to keep a policy alive. 

( 2 ) A policy to be acceptable under these rules shall be one effected by the 
subscriber himselt on his own life , and shall (unless it is a policy effected by a 
male subscriber which is expressed on the face of it to be for the benefit of his 
wife , or of his wife and children , or any of them ) be such as may be legally 
assigned by the subscriber to the President. 

Esplanation 1. - A policy on the joint lives of the subscriber and the sub 
scriber s wife or husband shall be deemed to be a policy on the life of the 
subscriber for the purpose of this sub - rule . 

Explanation 2 . - - A policy which has been assigned to the subscriber s wife 
shall not be accepted unless cither the policy is first re -assigned to the subscriber 
or the subscriber and his wife both join in an appropriate assignment. 

( 3 ) The policy may not be cffected for the benefit of any beneficiary other than 
the wife or husband of the subscrib : s or the wife or husband and children of 
the subscriber or any of them ; 

Provided that subscribers who took out policies under Note 1 of Rule 21 ( li ) or 
under clause (b ) or ( c ) of Rulę 21A of the Rules in force prior to the 1st April, 
1934 shall remain subject to the provisions of those rules in so far as policies 
So taken out are concerned , 

22 . Assignment of Policies - ( 1 ) The policy within six months after the frst 
withholding of a subscription or withdrawal from the Fund in respect of the 
policy ; or in the case of an insurance company whose headquarters are outside 
India , within such further period as the Account Officer, if he is satisfied by the 
production of the completion certificate ( interim receipt) , may fix , shall 
( a ) unless it is a policy effected by a male subscriber which is expressed on 

the face of it to be for the benefit of the wife of the subscriber, or 
of his wife and children , or any of them , be assigned to the President 
as security for the payment of any sum which may become payable 
to the Fund under rule 27, and delivered to the Account Omcer, the 
assignment being made by endorsement on the policy in Form ( 1 ) 
or Form ( 2 ) or Form ( 3 ) of the Forms in the Second Schedule 
According as the policy is on the life of the subscriber or on the joint 
lives of the subscriber and the subscriber s wife or husband or the 

policy has previously been assigned to the subscriber s wife ; 
(b ) if it is a policy effected by a male subscriber which is expressed on the 

face of it to bc for the benefit of the wife of the subscrlber , or of his 

wife and children or any of them , be delivered to the Account Officer . 
( 2 ) The Account Officer shall satisfy himself by reference to the Insurance 
Company where possible, that no prior assignment of the policy exists. 

( 3 ) Once a policy has been accepted by an Account Officer for the purpose of 
being financed from the Fund the terms of the policy shall not be altered nor 
shall the policy be exchanged for another policy without the prior consent of the 
Account Officer to whom details of the alteration or of the new policy shall be 
furnished, 

(4 ) If the policy is not assigned and delivered , or delivered , within the said 
period of six months or such further period as the Account Officer may, under 
sub - rule ( 1 ) , have fixed , any amount withheld or withdrawn from the Fund in 
respect of the policy shall, with interest thereon at the rate provided in rule 11 , 


2506 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 [PART II 


forthwith be paid or repaid , as the case may be, by the subscriber to the Fund, or, 
in default be ordered by the Account Officer to be recovered by deduction from 
the emoluments of the subscriber , by instalments or otherwise , as may be 
directed by the authority competent to sanction an advance for the grant of which 
special reasons are required , under sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 12 . 

( 5 ) Notice of assignment of the policy shall be given by the subscriber to the 
Insurance Company, and the acknowledgment of the notice by the Insurance 
Company shall be sent to the Account Officer within three months of the date of 
assignment. 

NOTE 1. - Subscribers are advised to send notice of the assigninent to the 
Insurance Company in duplicate , accompanied in cases in which the notice has 
to be sent to a company in Great Britain or Ireland, by a remittance of Alve 
shillings , which is the fee for the acknowledgment authorised by the Policies of 
Assurance Act, 1867. 

NOTE 2 . – Subscribers who proceed to Great Britain or Ireland on quitting the 
service are advised that under the English Stamp Law assignments or re - assign 
ments are required to be stamped within 30 days of their first arrival in those 
countries . Otherwise penalty will be incurred under the Stamp Act, and 
difficulties may arise when the policy matures for payment. 

23 . Bonus on Policies . The subscriber shall not during the currency of the 
policy draw any bonus the drawal of which during such currency is optional under 
the terms of the policy , and the amount of any bonus which under the terms of 
the policy the subscriber has no option to refrain from drawing during its currency 
shall be paid forthwith into the Fund by the subscriber or in default recovered by 
deduction from his emoluments by instalments or otherwise as may be directed 
by the authority competent to sanction an advance for the grant of which , special 
reasons are required under sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 12 . 

24 . Reassignment of Policies. — ( 1 ) Save as provided by Rule 28 when the 
subscriber 

( a ) quits the service ; or 
( h ) has proceeded on leave preparatory to retiremnt and applies to the 

Account Officer for reassignment or return of the policy ; or 
(c ) while on leave has been permitted to retire or declared by a competent 

medical authority to be unfit for further service and applies to the 

Account Officer for rcassignment or return of the policy ; or 
( d ) pays or repays to the Fund the whole of any amount withheld or with 

drawn from the Fund for any of the purposes mentioned in sub 
clause ( ii ) of clausc ( a ) of rule 17 and sub - clause ( i ) and ( ii) of 
clause (b ) of rule 17 with interest thereon at the rate provided in rule 

11, the Account Officcr shall 
(i ) if the policy has been assigned to the President under rule 22 , or 

under the corresponding rule heretofore in force reassign the policy 
in Form I in the Third Sch - dule to the subscriber , or to the sub 
scriber and the joint assured , as the case may be, and make it 
over to the subscriber together with a signed notice of the re 

assignment addressed to the Insurance Company ; 
( ii ) if the policy has been delivered to him under clause ( b ) of sub -rule 

( 1) of rule 22, make over the policy to the subscriber : 
Provided that, if the subscriber , after proceeding on leave preparatory to 
retirement, or after being, while on leavc, permitted to retire or declared by a 
competent medical authority to be unit for further survice , returns to duty , any 
policy so reassigned or made over shall, if it has not matured or been assigned 
or charged or encumbered in any way , he again assigned to the President and 
delivered to the Account Ofcer , or again be delivered to the Account Omcer , as 
the case may be, in the manner provided in rule 22 , and thereupon the provisions 
of these rules shall, so far as may be, again apply in respect of the policy : 

Provided further that, if the policy has matured or been assigned or charged 
or encumbered in any way, the provisions of sub - rul ( 4 ) of rule 22 applicable 
to a failure to assign and deliver a policy shall apply . 

(2 ) Save as provided by rule 28, when the subscriber dies before quitting the 
service , the Account Offlcer shall 
( i ) if the policy has been assigned to the President under rule 22 , or under 

the corresponding rule heretofore in force , reassign the policy in 
Form II in the Third Schedule to such person as may be legally 
entitled to receive it , and shall make over the policy to such person 


como 


Sro , 8 (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 17, 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 3507 


together with a signed notice of the reassignment addressed to the 

Insurance Company ; 
( ii) if the policy has been delivered to him under clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( 1 ) 

of rule 22 , make over the policy to the beneficiary , if any , or if there 
is no beneficiary , to such persons as may be legally entitled to receive 


it. 


25 . Procedure on maturity of policies . ( 1 ) If a policy assigned to the President 
under rule 22 or under the corresponding rule herctofore in force , matures before . 
the subscriber quits the service , or if a policy on the joint lives of a subscriber 
and the subscriber s wife or husband , assigned under the said rule , or under the 
corresponding rule heretofore in force , falls due for payment by reason of the 
death of the subscriber s wife or husband , the Account Officer shall, save as pro 
vided by rule 28 , proceed as follows:- - 
( i ) if the amount assured together with the amount of any accrued bonuscs 

is greater than the whole of the amount withheld or withdrawn from 
the Fund in respect of the policy with intercst thcreon at the rate 
provided in rule 11 , the Account Ofcer shall re - assign the policy in 
the Form in the Fourth Schedule to the subscriber or to the subscriber 
and the joint assured , as the case may be, and make it over to the 
subscriber , who shall immediately on receipt of the policy moneys 
from the Insurance Company pay or repay to the Fund the whole of 
any amount withheld or withdrawn with int rest , and in default, the 
provisions of rulc 29 shall apply as they apply in relation to cases 
where money withheld or withdrawn from the Fund under clause 
( a ) or clause ( b ) of rule 17 has been utilised for a purpose other 
than that for which sanction was given to the withholding or with 

drawal. 
( ii) If th3 amount assured together with the amount of any accrued bonuses 

is less than the whole of the amount withheld or withdrawn with 
interest , the Account Officer shall realise the amount assured together 
with any accrued bonuses and shall place the amount so realised 

to th . credit of the subscriber in the Fund , 
( 2 ) Save as provided by rule 28 , if a policy delivered to the Account Officer 
under clause ( b ) of sub -rulę ( 1 ) of rule 22 matures before the subscriber quits 
the service , the Account Officer shall make over the policy to the subscriber : 

Provided that if the interest in the policy of the wife of the subscriber, or of 
his wife and children , or any of them , as expressed on the face of the policy , 
expires when the policy matures , the subscriber , if the policy moneys are paid to 
him by the Insurance Company , shall immediately on receipt thereot pay or 
repay to the Fund either 
( i) the whole of any amount withheld or withdrawn from the Fund in 

respect of the policy with interest thereon at the rate provided in 

rul . 11, or 
( ii ) an amount equal to the amount assured together with any accrued 

bonuses 


whichever is less, and , in default, the provisions of Rulc 29 shall apply as they 
apply in relation to cases where money withheld or withdrawn from the Fund 
under clause ( a ) or clause ( b ) of rule 17 has been utilised for a purpose other 
than that for which sanction was given to the withholding or withdrawal. 


26 . Procedure on cessation of Interest of tho subscriber in the family pension 
fund .- If the interest of the subscriber in the family pension fund ccases, in whole 
Gr part, from any causa whatsoever, the provident fund account of the subscriber 
shall forthwith be reimbursed by the amount of the refund secured by the 
subscriber from the family pension fund , which amount shall, in default of re - . 
imbursement, be deducted from the subscriber s cmoluments by instalments or 
otherwise , as may be directed by the autliority competent to sanction an advance 
for the grant of which , special reasons are required under sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 12 . 


27 . Lapse or wrongful assignment of Policies . - If the policy lapses , or is . 
assigned , otherwise than to the President under rule 22 , charged or encumbered , 
the provisions of sub - rule ( 4 ) of rule 22 applicable to A failure to assign and 
dellver a policy shall apply . 


2508 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 [PART II 


28 . Duty of Account Officer when he recolves notice of assignment, charge or 
encumbrance of policies . -- If the Account Officer receives notice of 
(a ) an assignment ( otherwisc than an assignment to the President under 

rule 22) , or 
( b ) a charge or encumbrance on , or 
( c ) an order of a Court restraining dealings with the policy or any amount 

realised thereon , 
the Account Officer shall not 

(i) reassign or make over the policy as provided in rule 24, or 
( i ) realise the amount assured by the policy or reassign , or make over 

the policy , as provided in rule 25 , 
but shall forthwith refer the matter to the Government. 


29. Wrongful use of money withheld or withdrawn . - Notwithstanding anything 
-contained in these rules, if the sanctioning authority is satisfied that money with 
hold or withdrawn from the Fund under clause ( a ) or clausę ( b ) of rule 17 has 
been utilised for a purpose other than that for which sanction was given to the 
withholding or withdrawal of the money , the amount in question , shall, with 
interest at the rate provided in rule 11, forthwith be repaid or paid , as the case 
may bc, by the subscriber to the Fund , or in default, be ordered to be recovered 
by deduction in one sum from the emoluments of the subscriber even if he be 
on leave . If the total amount to be repaid or paid , as the case may be , be more 
than half the subscriber s emoluments recoveries shall be made in monthly instal 
ments of moieties of his emoluments till the entire amount is rcpaid or paid , as the 
case may be, by him . 

Note .-- The term emoluments in this rule does not include subsistence grant. 

30 . Restriction of the provisions relating to financing of policies to existing 
" subscribers in respect of existing policies. — The provisions of rules 17 to 29 shall 
apply only to subscribers who , before the date of publication of these rules , have 
been substituting in whole or in part , payments towards policies of life insurance 
for subscriptions to the Fund or making withdrawals from the Fund for such 
payments : 

Provided that such subscribers shall not be permitted to substitute such pay 
ments for subscriptions due to the Fund or to withdraw from the Fund for 
making such payments in respect of any new policy . 


Final withdrawal of accumulations in the Fund 
31 . Final withdrawal of accumulations in the Fund . When a subscriber quits 
the service, the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall become payable 
to him : 

Provided that a subscriber, who has been dismissed from the service and is 
subsequently reinstated in the service shall, if required to do so by the Govern 
ment, repay any amount paid to him from the Fund in pursuance of this rule , with 
interest thereon at the rate provided in rule 11 in the manner provided in the 
proviso to rule 32. The amount so repaid shall be credited to his account in the 
Fund . 

Explanation . — A subscriber, other than one who is appointed on contract or 
one who has retired from service and is subsequently re - employed , with or with 
out a break in service, shall not be deemed to quit the service, when he is trans 
ferred without any break in service to a new post under a State Government or 
in another department of the Central Government ( in which he is governed by 
another set of Provident Fund Rules ) and without retaining any connection with 
his former post. In such a case, his subscriptions together with interest thereon 
shall be transferred 
( a ) to his account in the other Fund in accordance with the rules of that 

Fund , if the new post is in another department of the Central Govern 

ment, or 
( b ) to a new account under the State Government concerned if the new 

post is under a State Government and the State Government consents , 
by general or special order, to such transfer of subscriptions and 
interest . 


Sec , 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OH INDLA : 1) ECEMBER 17 , 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 3500 


Note. - Transfers shall include cascy of resignations from service in order to 
tak : up appointment in another Department of the Central Government or under 
the State Government without any break and with proper permission of the 
Central Government. In cases where there has been a break in service 
it shall be limited to the joining time allowed on transfer to a different station . 


The same shall hold good in cases of retrenchments followcd by immcdiate 
employment whether under the same or different Government. 


32 . Retirement of subscriber . When a subscriber 


( a ) has proceeded on leave preparatory to retirement, or , if he is employed 

in a vacation departnient, on leave preparatory to retirement com 
bined with vacation , or 


( b ) while on leave , has been permitted to retire or been declared by a 

competent medical authority to be unfit for further service , 


the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall, upon application made by 
him in that behalf of the Account Officer , become payable to the subscriber : 


Provided that the subscriber , if he returns to duty , shall, if required to do so 
by Government, rępay to the Fund, for credit to his account, the whole or part of 
any amount paid to him from the Fund in pursuance of this rule with interest 
thercon at the rate provided in rule 11 in cash or securities or partly in cash 
and partly in securities , by instalments or otherwise, by recovery from his emolu 
ments or otherwisc , as may be directed by the authority competent to sanction 
an advance for the grant of which , special reasons are required under sub - rule 
( 2 ) of rule 12 . 


33 . Procedure on death of subscriber. — On the death of a subscriber before tho 
amount standing to his credit has become payable , or where the amount has 
become payable , bekorc payment has been made : 


( i) when the subscriber leaves a family 
( a ) if a nomination made by the subscriber in accordance with the pro 

visions of rule 5 or of the corresponding rule her, tofore in force in 
favour of a member or members of his family subsists , the amount 
standing to his credit in the Fund or the part thercof to which the 
nomination relates shall become payable to his nomin : e or nominees 
in the proportion specified in the nomination ; 


( b ) if no such nomination in favour of a member or members of the 

family of the subscriber subsists , or if such nomination relates only 
to a part of the amount standing to his credit in the Fund , the whole 
amount or the part thereof to which the nomination does not relate , 
as the case may be, shall, notwithstanding any nomination purporting 
to be in favour of any person or persons other than a member or 
members of his family , bocome payable to the members of his family 
in equal shares : 


Provided that no share shall be payable to 

( 1 ) sons who have attained majority ; 
( 2 ) sons of a deceascd son who have attained majority ; 
: ) married daughters whose husbands are alive ; 
( 4 ) married daughters of a deceased son whose husbands are alive ; 


if there is any member of the family other than those specified in clauses 

( 1 ), ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) : 


Provided further that the widow or widows and the child or children of a 
deceased son shall recelye between them in cqual parts only the share which that 


351 0 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 [ Part II 


son would have received if he had survived the subscriber and had been exempted 
from the provisions of clause ( 1 ) of the first proviso . 


( ii ) when the subscriber leaves no family , if a nomination made by him in 

accordance with the provisions of rule 5 or of the corresponding rule 
heretofore in force in favour of any person or persons subsists , the 
amount standing to his credit in the Fund or the part thereof to which 
the nomination relates, shall become payable to his nominee or 
nominees in the proportion specified in the nomination . 


34 . Manner of payment of amount in the Fund , - ( 1 ) When the amount 
standing to the credit of a subscriber in the Fund becomes payable , it shall be 
the duty of the Account Officcr to make payment on receipt of a written applica 
tion in this behalf as provided in sub -rule ( 3 ) . 


( 2 ) If the person to whom , under these rules, any amount ar policy is to be 
paid , assigned , reassigned or delivered , is a lunatic for whose estate a manager 
has becn appointed in this behalf under the Indian Lunacy Act, 1912 the payment 
or reassignment or delivery shall be made to such manager and not to the lunatic , 


( 3 ) Any person who desires to claim payment under this rule shall send a 
written application in that behalf to the Account Officer . Payment of amounts 
withdrawn shall be made in India only . The persons to whom the amounts are 
payable shall make their own arrangements to receive payment in India . 


NOTE .-- -When the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber has become pay 
able under rulc 31 , 32 or 33, the Account Officer shall authorise prompt payment 
of that portion of the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber in regard to 
which there is no dispute or doubt, the balance being adjusted as soon after as 
may be . 


35 . Procedure on transfer of a Government seryant from one Department to 
another , - ( a ) If a Government servant who is a subscriber to any other non 
Contributory Provident Fund of the Central Government or of a State Government 
is permanently transferred to pensionable service in a Department of the Central 
Government in which he is governed by these rules, the amount of subscriptions, 
together with interest thereon standing to his credit in such other fund on the 
date of transfer shall be transferred to his credit in the Fund : 


Provided that where a subscriber was subscribing to a non -Contributory 
Provident Fund of a State Government, the consent of that Government shall be 
obtained . 


( b ) If u Government servant who is a subscriber to the State Railway Provident 
Fund or any other Contributory Provident Fund of the Central Government or 
a State Contributory Provident Fund is permanently transferred to pensionable 
service in a Department of Central Government in which he is governed by these 
rules and unless such a subscriber elects to continue to be governed by the rules 
of such Fund, when such an option is given 


( i) the amount of subscriptions, with interest thereon , standing to his 

credit in such contributory provident fund on the date of transfer 
shall with the consent of the other Government, if any, be trans 
ferred to his credit in the Fund ; 


( 11) the amount of Government contributions. with interest thereon , standing 

to his credit in such contributory provident fund shall with the con 
sent of the other Government, if any , be credited to the Central 
Revenues (Civil) ; and 


( iii) he shall thercupon be entitled to count towards pension such part of 

the period during which he subscribed to such contributory provident 
fund as the President may determine. 


SEC , 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 3511 


Note ( 1 ) . — T he provisions of this rule do not apply to a subscriber who has 
retired from service and is subsequently re - employed with or without a break in 
service, or to a subscriber who was holding the former appointment on contract . 


Note ( 2 ). — The provisions of this rule shall , however , apply to persons who 
are appointed without break , whether temporarily or permanently to a post 
carrying the benefits of these rules after resignation or retrenchmant from service, 
under another Department of Central Government or under the State Govern 
ment. 


36 . Transfer of amount to the Contributory Provident Fund (India ) . - - If a 
subscriber to the Fund is subsequently admitted to the benefits of the Contri 
butory Provident Fund ( India ), the amount of his subscriptions, together with 
interest thereon , shall be transferred to the credit of his account in the Contri 
butory Provident Fund ( India ) . 


Note .-- The provisions of this rule do not apply to a subscriber who is appointed 
on contract or who has retired from service and is subsequently re - employed with 
or without a break in service in another post carrying contributory provident 
fund benefits . 


37 . Relaxation of the provisions of the rules in individual cases . When the 
President is satisfied that the operation of any of these rules causes or is likely to 
cause undue hardship to a subscriber , he may, notwithstanding anything contained 
in these rules deal with the case of such subscriber in such manner as may 
appear to him to be just and equitable . 


Procedure Rules . 


38 . Number of account to be quoted at the time of payment of subscription . 
When paying a subscription in India , either by deduction from emoluments or 
in cash , a subscriber shall quote the number of his account in the Fund , which 
shall be communicated to him by the Account Officer . Any change in the number 
shall similarly be communicated to the subscriber by the Account Officer , 


39. Annual statement of account to be supplied to subscriber .-- ( 1 ) As soon as 
possible after the close of each year, the Account Officer shall send to each sub 
scriber a statement of his account in the Fund showing the opening balance 
as on the 1st April of the year, the total amount credited or debited during the 
year , the total amount of interest credited as on the 31st March of the year and 
the closing balance on that date . The Account Officer shall attach to the state 
ment of account an enquiry whether the subscriber 


( a ) desires to make any alteration in any nomination made under rule 5 

or under the corresponding rule hcrctofore in force ; 


( b ) has acquired a family in cases where the subscriber has made no 

nomination in favour of a member of his family under the proviso 
to sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 5 . 


( 2 ) Subscribers should satisfy themselves as to the correctness of the annual 
statement, and errors should be brought to the notice of the Account Oflcer 
within three months from the date of receipt of the statement. 


( 3 ) The Account Officer shall , if required by a subscriber , once , but not more 
than once , in a year inform the subscriber of the total amount standing to his 
credit in the Fund at the end of the last month for which his account has been 
written up . 


40. Interpretation . If any question arises relating to the interpretation of these 
rules , it shall be referred to the Central Government whose decision thereon shall 
be final, 


41. Repeal. — The General Provident Fund ( Central Services) Rules are hereby 
Topealed . 


3512 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :DECEMBER 17 , 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 [ PART II 


FIRST SCHEDULE [Rule 5 ( 3 ) ] 

Forms of Nomination 
1. When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominate one member thereof. 

I hereby nominate the person mentioned below , who is a member of my 
family as defined in rule of the General Provident Fund (Central Services) 
Rules , 1960, to receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund , in the 
event of my death before that amount has become payable , or having become 
payable has not bcen paid : 


Name and address 

of nomince 


Relationship 
| with subscriber 


Age 


Contingencies on Naine , address and 
the happening of relationship of the 
which the no - | person persons, if any, 
mination shall | to whom the right of 
become invalid . thc nomince shall 

pass in the eye il 
his predeceasing the 

subscriber . 


Dated this . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 
at . . . . . . . . . 
Two witnesses to signature. 

Signature of subscriber , 


II. When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominate more than one 

member thereof. 
I hereby nominate the persons mentioned below , who are members of my 
family as defined in rule 2 of the General Provident Fund (Central Services ) 
Rules, 1960 , to receive the amount that may stand to my crcdit in the Fund , in 
the event of my death before that amount has become payable , or having become 
payable has not been paid , and direct that the said amount shall be distributed 
among the said persons in the manner shown against their names : - - 


Age 


Nanie and Address Relationship 
of nominces ! with 

subscriber 


* Amoun 

share of 
accumulations 
to be paid to 

cach 


| Contingencies Name, address 

on thc happen - and relation 
ing of which ship of the per 
the nomination ron /pei sons , if 
shall become any, to whom 
invalid the right of the 

nominee shall 
pass in the ey 
ent of his pre 
deceasing the 
subscribers 


Dated this . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 
at. . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . 

. . , 
Two witnesses to signature . 

Signature of subscriber . 


I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


. I IIIII 


* NOTE , — This column should be Alled in so as to cover the whole amount that 
may stand to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time. 


SEC, 9 ( 11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 , AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 3513 


III. When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate one person . 

I, having no family as defined in rule 2 of the General Provident Fund (Cen 
tral Services ) Rules, 1960 , hereby nominate the person mentioned below to 
receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund , in the event of my 
death before that amount has become payable , or having become payable has not 
been paid : 


Name and address 

of nominee . 


Relationship 
with subscriber, 


Agc 


* Contingencies on Name, address and 
the happening of relationship of the 
which the nomi- | person /persons, if any , 
nation shall to whom the right of 
become invalid . nominee shall pass in 

the event of his pre 
deceasing the subs 

cribcr . 


Dated this . . . . . 


. . . . day of. . . . . . . . . . 


. . ... . . . . 19 
Signature of subscriber. 


Two witnesses to signature. 


2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


* NOTE : Where a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination , he shall 
specify in this coluinn that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of 
his subsequently acquiring a family . 
IV . When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate more than 

one person . 
I, having no family as deincd in rule 2 of the General Provident Fund (Cen 
tral Services ) Rules , 1960 , hereby nominate the persons mentioned below to 
receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund , in the event of my 
death before that amount has become payable , or having become payable has not 
been paid , and direct that the said amount shall be distributed among the said 
persons in the manner shown below against their names : 


Age 


Name and address Rclationship 
ofnominees , with 

subscriber 


* Amount or * * Contingcn - Name, address 
share of accu - cies on the and relation 
mulations to happening of ship of the per 
be paid to each | which the no son / persons, if 

mination shall any , to whom 
become invalid . the right of the 

nomince shall 
pass in the cy 
ent of his pre 
deceasing the 
subscriber. 


Dated this . . . . . . . 


at . . . 


. . . . . . . . . . day of ... .. 

.......... 19 
Signature of subscriber , 


Two witnesses to signature . 


. . . 


. . . . . . . . . . 


. . . 


. . . . 


. 


* NOTE : - This column should be Alled in so as to cover the whole amount 
that may stand to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time, 

* * NOTE . — Where a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination , he shall 
spccify in this column that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of 
his subsequently acquiring a family . 


2514 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :DECEMBER 17 , 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 20 , 1882 PART II 


SECOND SCHEDULE [Rule 22 ( 1 ) ( a ) ] 

Forms of Assignment 


Form 


( 1 ) 


I, A . B , of . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . hereby assign unto the President of India 
the within policy of assurance as security for payment of all sums which under 
rule 27 of the General Provident Fund (Central Services ) Rules, 1960 , I may here 
after become liable to pay to that Fund . 

I hereby certify that no prior assignment of the within policy exists. 
Dated this 

. . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 . 

Signature of Subscribcr . 
Station . 

One witness to signature . 


Form 


(2 ) 


We, A . B . (the subscriber ) of . . . . . . 

.. and C .D . ( the joint assured ) 
of . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . in consideration of the President of India agreeing at 
our request to accept payments towards the within policy of assurance in substi 
tution for the subscriptions payable by me the said A B . to the General Provident 
Fund (or, as the case may be, to accept the withdrawal of the gum of Rs. from 
the sum to the credit of the said A . B . in the General Provident Fund for payment 
of the premium of the within policy of assurance ) , hereby jointly and severally 
assign unto the said President of India the within policy of assurance as security 
for payment of all sums which under rule 27 of the General Provident Fund ( Cen 
tral Services ) Rules , 1960 , the said A . B . may hercafter become liable to pay to 
that Fund . 


We hereby certify that no prior assignment of the within policy exists . 
Dated this. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . .day of .. . . . . . .. 19 . 

Signature of Subscriber 

and the Joint Assured . 
Station . 

One witness to signature . 


Form ( 3 ) 
I, C . D ., wife of A . B ., and the assignee of the within policy , having , at the 
request of A . B ., the assured , agreed to release my interest in the policy in favour 
of A . B ., in order that A . B ., may assign the policy to the President of India , who 
has agreed to accept payments towards the within policy of Assurance in substitu 
tion for the subscriptions payable by A . B . to the General Provident Fund hereby 
at the request and by the direction of A . B . assign and I, the said A . B . assign and 
confirm unto the President of India the within policy of Assurance as security for 
payment of all sums which under rule 27 of the rules of the said Fund the said 
A . B . may hereafter become liable to pay to the Fund . 

We hereby certify that no prior assignment of the within policy cxists. 
Dated this . . . . . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . . 19 


Signature of the assignee 

and the subscriber. 
One witness to signatures . 


Station . 


SEC , 8 (11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 , AGRADAYANA 26 , 1882 3515 


- - 


- 


- 


Form ( 4 ) 


the . . : : 


Form of single tinant assignment to be uyed in Cuses where a subscriber to 

. . . . . Provident Fund who has elected an insurance policy under 
the rules of that thd is admitted to the General Provident Fund ( Central 
Services ) . 
I . . . . . . . . canne . . . . . . . . . . . of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .hereby further assign unto the 

( subscribers namo) ( subscribers address ) 
President of India the within policy of assurance as security for the payment of 
all sums which under Rule 27 of the General Provident Fund ( Central Services ) 
Rulcs, 1980 , the said . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .may hcrcafter become liable to pay to 

( subscriber s name) 
the General Provident Fund (Central Scrvices ). 

I hereby certify that except an assignment to the President of India /Governor 
of the State o ! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . as security for payment of all sums which the 
said . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . has become liable to pay under Rule . . . . . . . 
( subscriber s name) 
of the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Provident Fund Rules, no prior assignment of the 
within policy exists . 

Dated , this . . . . . . . . . . . " . . . day of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 . 


Station . . . . . . . . . 


One witness . . . . . . . . 


Signature of the Subscriber. 


Form ( 5 ) 
Form of joint tenant Assignment to be used in cases where a subscriber 
to .. . ... .. .. ... .. .. . .. Provident Fund who has effected an insurance policy under 
the Rules of that Fund is admitted to the General Provident Fund (Central. 
Services ) . 


We, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . of Inn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , 
( subscriber s name) 
namel 

( subscriber s address ) 
( subscriber s address ) 

( wife s name ) 
wife of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . hereby jointly and severally further assign unto 
the President of India the within policy of assurance as a security for the pay 
ment of all sums which under Rule 27 of General Provident Fund ( Central 
Services ) Rules, 1960 , the said .. . .. .. . . . .. .. .. . ....... .... may hereafter become llable 

(subscriber s name) 
to way to the General Provident Fund (Central Services) . 

We hereby certify that except an assignm -:nt to the President of India /Gover 
nor op the State of. . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . as security for payment of all bums 
which the said . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , has become liable to pay under 

( subscriber s name) 
Rulc . . . . . . . . . . . . . of the . . . . , 

. . . . . . . . Provident Fund Rules, 
no prior assignment of the within policy exists . 
Dated , this . 

. . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 


Station . . . . . . . . . . . . 


One Witness . . . . . . . 


Signature of the subscriber 

and the joint tenant . 


NOTE . — The assignment may be executed on the policy itself either in the 
subscriber s handwriting or in type, or alternatively a typed or printed glip con 
taining the assignment may be pasted on the blank space provided for the pur 
pose on the policy . A typed or printed endorsement must be duly signed and if 
pasted on the policy it must be initialled across all four margins. 


3516 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 [Part II 


THIRD SCHEDULE (Rule 24 ) 
Forms of Reassignment by the President of India . 

FORM I 
All sums which have become payable by the above -named A . B . under rule 27 
of the General Provident Fund ( Central Services ) Rules , 1980 , having been paid 
and / or all liability for payment by him of any such sums in the future having 
ceased the President of India doth hereby reassign the within policy of assurance 
to the said A . B . and C . D . 

A . B . 


Dated this . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . day of .......... ............ 19 
Executed by . . . . . . 

....... . Account Officer of the Fund for and on behalf 
of the President of India in the presence of 

X .Y . 

(Signature of Account Ofcer ) 
Y .2 . 
KOne Witness who should add his 

designation and address ) . 


FORM II 
The above -named A . B . having died on the . . . . . . . . . . day of . ... . . . . . . . . . 19 , 
the President of India doth hereby reassign the within policy of assurance to 
C . D . . . . . . 

Dated this .. . .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. ...... .. day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 
Executed by 

....... Account Officer of the Fund for and on behalf 
of the President of India in the presence of 


XY 


(Signature of Account Oncer ) 


Y . Z . 
(One witness who should add his 

designation and address .) 


FOURTH SCHEDULE ( Rule 25 ) 

Form of Reassignment by the President of India . 
The President of India doth hereby reassign the within policy to the gald 

A . B . 
A . B . and C .D . 
Dated this . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . day of . .. . ... 

. . 19 
Executed by .... 

....... Account officer of the Fund for and on behalf 
of the President of India in the presence of 

XY 
( Signature of Account Officer ) 


. 


II44 . . . 


Y . Z . 


(One witness who should add his 
designation and address .) 


* Till in particulars of persons legally entitled to recelve the policy . 


SEC. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 3517 


FIFTH SCHEDULE (Rule 12 ) 


Authorities competent to grant temporary advances. 


1 . An advance for the grant of which , special reasons are not required under 
sub - rul . ( 2 ) of Rule 12 may be sanctioned by the authority competent to grant 
an advance of pay on transfer under Rule 265 of the G . F . R . Vol, 1 or if the 
applicant is competent to sanction the advance of pay to himself on transfer , by 
the administrative authority next higher to tho applicant . 


NOTE : - -Advances to temporary Government servants may be sanctioned 

by the authority who is competent to sanction advance of pay 
on transfer for permanent Government servants , 


2 . An advance for the grant of which special reasons are required under sub 
rule ( 2 ) of Rule 12 may be sanctioned by 

A Ministry or Department of the Government of India . 
In the case of officers who originally belonged to the Indian Medical Service , 

and are now serving under a State Government, a Department of the 

State Government. 
The Governor of Assam in his capacity as Agent to the President for the 

Administration of tribal areas . 
A Chief Commissioner / Lieutenant Governor , 
An authority declared by the Central Government to be the Head of a 

Department under clause ( 10 ) of rule 2 of the Supplementary Rules, 
but not including any authority declared to be the Head of a Depart 

ment by a Chief Commissioner / Lieutenant -Governor . 
The General Managers , Managers , Works Managers and Assistant Managers 

( Technical ) of the Government of India Presses, functioning as heads 

of Presses , 
The Controller of Stationery . 
The Manager of the Forms Press , Calcutta . 
The Manager of Publications, New Delhi. 
The Controller of Patents and Designs . 
The Private Secretary to the President . 


Provided that where the appointing authority of the applicant is higher than 
the Head of Department or other authority mentioned in the above list ur der 
whose administrative control he is serving, the Head of the Department or other 
authority , as the case may be, shall not reject his application for an advance 
save with the approval - 
( a ) of_ the Comptroller and Auditor General, in the case of officers of the 

Indian Audit and Accounts Service , and 
( b ) of the appointing authority , in other cases , 


Provided further that where the applicant for an advance for which special 
reasons are required is himself competent to sanction the advance under the 
aforesaid provisions, the authority competent to sanction the advance shall be - 
( I) in the case of officers of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service, the 

Comptroller and Auditor General ; 
( 11 ) in other cases, the appointing authority of the applicant. 
3 . In respect of any person serving in connection with the affairs of a State , 
who is entitled to subscribe to the Fund by or under any law made in this behall , 
the authority competent to grant an advance for which special reasons are not 
reguiled under sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 12 , as well as for the grant of an advance for 
which special reasons are required under sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 12 shall be the 
State Government. 


2518 THE GAZETTE OF INDJA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1892 [PART I 


- - 


. 


. 


- 


- - - 


MEMORANDUM EXPLANATORY OF THE GENERAL PROVIDENT FUND 

( CENTRAL SERVICES ) RULES , 1960 . 


(Against each rule , the corresponding rule in the rules previously in force has 
been given within brackets) . 

Rule 1 (Rule 1). The rules come into force from the 1st Apri) 1960 1.c , the date 
from which the compulsory provident fund scheme has been introduced . 

Rulc 2 (Rule 2 ). — (a ) The definition of " Account Officer ” has been enlarged to 
include the Pay & Accounts Officer and the Head of Office. 

( b ) Reference to ster ) ing overseas pay has been omitted from the definition of 
" emoluments " as no one who is subject to these rules is in receipt of such pay . 

Dearness pay has been included in the term " emoluments" . This is necessary 
to cover cases of those Government servants who may not elect the revised scales 
of pay under the Central Civil Services ( Fievised Pay ) Rules , 1960. 

(e ) The defnition of " leave" has been enlarged to include leave under the 
Revised Leave Rules, 1933. 


Rule 3 (Rule 3). — Rule 34 in the rules previously in force has been incorporated 
as sub - rule ( 2 ) . 

Rule 4 ( Rule 4 ) . — This rule has becn modified as the result of the introduction 
of the compulsory provident fund scheme. Provision has also been made that 
apprentices and probationers shall be treated as temporary Government scrvants 
for the purpose of this rule . 

Rules 5 to 7 in the rules previously in force have been deleted as they are now 
unnecessary . 

Rule 5 ( Rille 8 ). - - A sentence has becn added at the end of clause (a ) of sub 
rule (5 ) . This is self -explanatory . 

Rule 6 (Rule 9 ). -- The words " as well as advances and withdrawals from the 
Fund have been added at the end of this rule . 

Rule 7 (Rule 10 ) , — The subscription will not now be optional during leave on 
average pay or earned leave of less than one month or 30 days duration , as the 
case may be . 

Rule 8 (Rule 11 ). — Sub - rule ( 1) has been modifici consequent on the decision 
taken on the recommendations of the Pay Commission . 


In the case of Class IV employees , whose provident fund accounts are now 
being maintained by Heads of Ofices , the minimum rate of subscription is Rs. 41 
a month for those drawing a pay of less than Rs. 75 / - p .m , and Rs. 5 / - a month 
for others . 


Under sub - rule ( 4 ) a subscriber can now reduce the subscription also once in 
the course of a year. 


Rule 9 (Rule 12 ). — No change 

Rule 10 (Rule 13 ) . - In sub -rule ( 1 ) the provision relating to sterling over 
seas pay has been deleted . 

Sub -rule ( 3 ) provides also for recovery of artear subscriptions in cases of 
default . 

Rule 11 (Rule 14 ). -- A new proviso has been inserted below sub -rule ( 3) which 
is self- explanatory . 


Rule 12 (Rule 15 ). - Main purposes for which advances may be granted have 
been specifed in sub - rule ( 1 ). Advances to pay expenses in connection with ill 
ness or to meet the cost of higher education may include also where necessary , 
the travelling expenses . 


For the purpose of this rule pay includes dearness pay , where admissible. 
Rule 13 (Rule 16 ). — No change , 


SEC , (ii)] TUE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1889 2510 


Rule 14 (Rule 28 ). — This rule incorporates the provisions in rule 28 of the 
rulcs previously in force confining it to advances. Rule 29 is confined to with 
holding or withdrawal of money from the Fund for purposes of Anancing Insur 
ance policies . 


Rule 15 (New Rulle .). — This rule lays down the conditions of eligibility and also 
specifics the purposes for which final withdrawals are allowed . Provision has also 
been made for final withdrawal to meet medical expenses, including where neces 
sary , the travelling expenses . 


Rule 16 (New Rule ). — The amount of withdrawal shall not ordinarily exceed 
six months pay or one-half of the amount standing to the credit of the subscriber 
in the Fund , whichever is less . The sanctioning authority can sanction an amount 
In excess of this limit but only up to three - fourths of the amount to the credit of 
the subscriber, 


Sub -rule ( 2 ) contains penal provision to cover cases where a subscriber with 
draws money from the Fund and does not use it for the purpose for which the 
withdrawal is made. All the other conditions prescribed from time to time have 
been done away with in order to simplify the rules . 


For the purpose of this rule also pay has been taken to include dearness pay, 
where admissible. 


Rules 17 to 28 (Rules 17 to 27 ) . — These rules incorporate the provisions con 
tained in rules 17 to 27 of the rules previously in force . The proviso below sub 
rule ( 2 ) of rule 18 of those rules has been deleted consequent on the deletion of 
rule 7 ( 1) . 


Rule 29 (Rule 28 ). — This corresponds to rule 28 of the rules previously in force 
but is confined to withholding or withdrawal of money from the Fund for financing 
insurance policies . A separate rule 14 has been included relating to advances. 


Rule 30 (New Rule ), — This is a new rule making the provisions contained in 
rules 17 to 29 applicable only to subscribers who were Anancing their insurance 
policies from the Fund before the publication ot these rules. 


finance any new 


This rule does not, however , permit thosc subscribers to 
policy from the Fund . 


Rules 31 to 33 (Rules 29 to 31 ). - No change . 


Rule 34 (Rule 32).- - In sub -rulc ( 1 ) provision has been made requiring the suh 
mission of a written application for withdrawa 1 of the accumulations in the 
Fund when they become payable . 


Rule 35 (Rule 33 ). — In clause ( a ) , the provisions contained in clauses ( a ) and 
( c ) of rule 33 of the rules previously In force have been incorporated . 


Rule 36 (Rule 33A ). — No change . 

Rule 37 (New Rule ). — This corresponds to rule 35 of the All 
(Provident Fund ) Rules , 1955 . 


India Services 


Rules 38 and 39 (Rules 35 and 36 ).- -No change . 
Rule 40 (New Rule ).- This relates to Interpretation of rules. 
Rule 41 (New Rule ).-- This is a repealing clause . 


Schedules. - -No change. 


[ No. F . 50 (2 ) -EV / 60 .] 
DEVI DIYAL BHATIA , Dy. Secy. . 


(Department of Economic Aifairs) 


3520 


New Delhi, the 7th December 1960 


SO . 3001 - Statement of the Affairs) of the Reserve Bank of India as on the 2nd December 1960 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


Lizbilities 


RS. 


Assets 


R 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


$,000, 000 
80,00 ,00, 600 


Notes . . 
Rupee Coin . 
Subsidiary Coin . 


23 ,99, 75 , 000 

3907 ,000 
7, 15, 000 


. 


. 


. 


40 , 00 ,00 .000 


5 ,00 ,00 ,000 


Capital paid up . . . . . 
Reserve Fund . . . . . 
National Agricultural Credit (Long -term 

Operations) Fuod . . . . 
National Agriculturs ) Credit (Stabilisation ) 

Fund 
Deposits : 

( a ) Government 

( 1) Central Government 

( 2 ) Other Goverlicents 
(0 ) Banks 

a ) Others 
Bus Farable 
Other Liabilities 

. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER17,1960/AGRAHAYANA26,1882[Part11 


10 ,22,21,000 


Bills Purchased and Discounted : 

( a ) Loterra 
(5 ) External 

(c) Goverment Treasury Bills : 
Balances held abroad . 
Loans and Advances to Governments . 
Other Loans and Advancest . 
Investments 
Other Astets . 


60,71,23,000 
11,71, 26 .000 
89 , 78 ,46 ,000 
91, 16 ,32 , 000 
26 , 88 ,62 ,000 
29 , 5329,000 


28 , 75 , 03 ,000 
35 , 57 , 73 ,000 
121,14 , 99 ,000 
203 ,98 , 50 , 000 
16 ,00395 ,000 


RUPEES 


439 .79. 38 .000 


RUPEES . 


439 ,79, 383000 


* Includes Cash and Short- term Securities . 
* * Includes Temporary Overdrifts to State Governments . 
The item "Otser Loans and Advances includes Rs. 4 ,06 , 00 ,000 /- advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills uader Section 17 (4Xc) of the 

Reserve Bank of India Act. 
Dated the 7th day of December, 1960. 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of indis Act, 1934, for the week ended in 


2nd day of December 1960 


ISSUB DEPARTMENT 


Liabilites 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Assets 


Rs. 


Rs. 


23, 99 ,75 ,000 


117,76 ,03,000 


Notes held in the banking 

Department . . . 
Notes in circulation : 
Tota ) Notes issued 


18 , 28 , 11,07 ,000 


A . Gol Coin and Bulljon : - 

(a ) Held in India 
(6 ) Held outside India 
Foreign Securities 


18,52 , 10 ,82,000 


123 ,00 , 89 ,000 


TOTAL OF A . . 
B , Rupee Coin . . . 
Government of India Rupee 

Securities . . 


240 ,76 ,92 ,000 
129 ,28 , 33 ,000 


14 , 82 , 05 ,57, 000 


Laternal Bills of Exchange and 
other commercial papers 


c.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER17,1960/AGRAHAYANA26,18823521" 


TOTAL LIABILITIES 


18 ,52, 10 ,82 ,000 


TOTAL ASSETS 


18 ,52 ,10,82 ,000 


Dated the 7th day of December , 1960, 


B . VENKATAPPIAR, 

Dy. Governor, 


[No F3(2)-BC/60.] 
A . BAKSI , Jt. Secy . 


- 


- - 


3522 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 [Part II 

GHSS 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 8th December 1960 
S . O . 3002 .-- In pursuance of clause ( aa ) of sub - section ( 1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Finance Corporation Act , ( 1948 ) ( 15 of 1948 ) the Central Government 
hereby nominates Shri K . P . Mathrani, Additional Secretary , Department of Econo 
mic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, to be a Dircctor of the Industrial Finance Corpo 
ration of India vice Shri A , Baksi. 

[No. F . 2 ( 98 ) - Corp / 60. ] 

M . K . VENKATACHALAM , Dy. Secy . 
( Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 8th December 1960 
S . O . 3003 . - In pursuance of Sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 21 of the Industrial 
Finance Corporation Act, 1948 ( 15 of 1948), the Central Government on the 
recommendation of the Board of Directors of the Industrial Finance Corporation 
of India hereby fixes 4 per cent per annum as the rate of interest payable on the 
bonds to be issued by the said Corporation in January , 1961 and maturing on 
the 2nd January , 1962. 

[No. F . 2 (88 )- Corp /60.] 
S. S . SHARMA, Under Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 6th December 1960 
S .O . 3004 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 59 
of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) , the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby makes the following amendments in the Indian Income- tax Rules , 1922 , the 
game having been previously published as required by sub - section ( 4 ) of the 
said section , 

1. These rules may be called the Indian Income- tax (Amendment) Rules, 1960 . 

2 . After rule 49 of the Indian Income- tax Rules, 1922, the following rules shall 
be inserted , namely : 
- 50 . ( 1 ) The application to the Commissioner under section 59B of the Act 

for information as to the amount of tax determined as payable by 
an assessce in respect of any assessment made on or after the 1st 

April, 1960 , shall be made in the following form : 
Form of application under section 59B of the Indian Income -tax Act, 1922 
То 

The Commissioner of Income-tax , 


Sir , 

I request you to furnish the information as to the amount of tax determined 
as payable by . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . in respect of the assessment year ending on 

(here give name, status and complete address of the assessee ) 
31st day of March , 19 . 
2 . The fee of Rs . 10 has been paid and the receipt is enclosed . 

Signature of the applicant . , . . . . . 
Name of the applicant 

( in capital letters ) . . . . . . . . . . 
Father s /Husband s name . ... . . . . . . 

Full address . . . . . . . . . . 
Dated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 
NOTE : - - 1 , A separte application has to be made in respect of each assessee and 

for each assessment year. 


Sec. 3 ( i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDJA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 3523 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - TT: 


V 


2 . The fer should be credited in the treasury or a branch of the State Bank 

of India or a branch of the Reserve Bank of India after obtaining 
chalan from the Income- tax Officer and the triplicate chalan sent to 
the Commissioner along with the application . 


( 2 ) The information under section 59B of the Act shall be furnished by the 

Commissioner in the following form 


No. . . . . . . . . 


Date . . . . . . . . 


TO 


With reference to your application , dated . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . under section 593 
of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 requesting for information as to the amount 
of tax determined as payable by . . . . . . . . . . . . . in respect of the assessment 
year ending on 31st day of March 19 , the said information is given below :-- 

Name and address of the assessee 
Status 
Assessment year 
Amount of tax determined as payable 

( in words and figures ) 


Seal 


Dated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 

Signature of the authority furnishing 

the information . 
( 3 ) Where it is not possiblc for the Commissioner to furnish the informa 

tion asked for by the pplicant under section 59B of the Act owing 
to the fact that the relavant assessment has not been completed , he 
shall inform the applicant in the following form : 


No. . . . . . . 


Office of the . . . . . 


Date . . . . . . . . 


То 


With reference to your application , dated . . . . . . . . . . . . under section 59B of the 
Indian Income- tax Act , 1922 , rcqucsting for information as to the amount of tax 
det - rmined as payable by . . . . . . . . . . . in respect of the assessment year ending 
on the 31st day of March . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , I am to inform you that the said , 
information is not yet available . 


Scal 


Signature . . . . . . . . . . . 


Dated . . . . . . . . 


. ... . . . . . . 10 


. 


3524 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 [ PART II 

- = - = - = = - - 

- - - - - - - 
( 4 ) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that there are circumstances 

justifying the refusal of information as to the amount of tax deter 
mined as payable by an assessee in respect of any assessment year, 
he shall intimate the fact to the applicant in the following form :-- - 


No, , , . . . 


Office of the . . . . . . . 


Date . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . . . . 


With reference to your application , dated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . under section 59B of 
the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922, requesting for information as to the amount of 
tax determined as payable by . . . . . . . . . . . . . in respect of the assessment year end 
ing on the 31st day of March 19 . . . . . . . ., I am satisfied that there are circumstan 
ces justifying its refusal and the information is accordingly refused . 

Signature . 


Scal 


Dated .. . . .. .. 


. . . . . . . . . 19 


51. ( 1 ) Every application made by a person under section 59B of the Act 
shall be accompanied by a fee of rupees ten for each assessment ycar for which 
information is requested for under thut section . 

( 2 ) Where the information is not furnished owing to the fact that the relevant 
ussessment has not been completed or where the Commissioner refuses to furnish 
the information , he shall refund or cause to be refunded the amount of the fee 


paid .” 


[No. 105 / 3 (55 ) - 60 / TPL . ] 
D . SUBRAMANIAN , Secy . 


OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE AND LAND 

CUSTOMS, BOMBAY 

NOTICE 

renbry thr 6th December 1960 
$ .O . 3005 . -- Whereas it appears that the marginally noted goods which were 

seized by the S . R . P . staff at a place known 
S . No. Description of goods 

sa Paushi Paunda in the jurisdiction of 

| Ch . Nos. 72 and 73 on the Goa Frontier on 
I . Four bags of cloycs 90 seer s.) 15th September , 1960 , were imported by 

land from Goa ( Portuguese Territory in 
2 . 7 O clock Razor 

India ) in contravention of section 5 ( 1 , of 
blad os 

3 t lades | the Land Customs Act , 1924 , and the Gov 

ernment of India , Ministry of Commerce 
3 . Prest ons 555 

and Industries Import Control Order 
Made in Germany) 140 bundles No. 17 / 55 , dated 7th December , 1955 issued 

under the Imports and Exports ( Coptrol) 
t: G1119 ba & which 

Act, 1947 and deemed to have been issued 
contained tho goods. 9 bags under the Imports and Exports (Control) 

1878 . Now therefore, any person claiming 


$ EC, 8 (L )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 3525 


the goods is hereby called upon to show cause to the Deputy Collector of Central 
Excise and Land Customs Bombay why the above mentioned goods should not be 
confiscated under section 5 ( 3 ) of the Land Customs Act , 1924 read with section 
167 ( 8 ) of the Sea Customs Act 1878 and the gunny bags under section 168 of the 
Sea Customs Act, 1878 , and why a penalty should not be imposed on him under 
section 7 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with section 167 ( 8 ) of the 
Sea Customs Act , 1878 . 

If such an owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed goods 
or to cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days from the publi 
cation of this notice in the Government of India Gazette /Maharashtra Govern 
ment Gazette , the goods in question will be treated as unclaimed and case will be 
decided accordingly . 

[NO . VIII (b ) 10 (56 ) Cus./60.) 

S . M . BIJAWARGI, 
Deputy Collector of Central Excise 

and Land Customs Bombay . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 9th December 1960 
S . O . 3006..- - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in Textiles ( Production by Handloom ) Control 
Order , 1956 , namely : 

1. This order may be called the Textiles ( Production by Handloom ) Control 
Amendment Order, 1960 . 

2 . In the Textiles (Production by Handloom ) Control Order , 1956 (hereinafter 
called as the sald order ) , in sub - Clause ( b ) of clause 2 for the words " or man 
made cellulosic or non - cellulosic spun fibre yarn " . the words “ or man -made 
cellulosic or non -cellulosic filament yarn of silk yarn " shall be substituted . 

3 . In sub - clause ( IA ) of clause 4 of the said Order, for the words and figures 
" shall apply on or before the 31st December , 1960 , the words and figures shall 
apply on or before the 31st March , 1961" shall be substituted . 

4 . For Form A appended to the said Order the following Form - A shall be 
substituted , namely : 

FORM OF APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OF A HANDLOOM 
1 , Name and full address of the applicant . 
2 . Age. 
3 . Exact location of the Handloom . 
4 . Total No. of Handlooms in the possession of 

the applicant. 
5 . No. of Handlooms which are actually being 

worked on the date of the application : 
(i) With Cotton yarn . . . . 
(ii ) With Silk yarn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
( iii ) With Woollen yarn . . . . . . . 
( iv ) With Art Silk or Ştaple Fibre yarn . . . . . . . . 

( v ) Other Kinds of yarn . 
6 . Description of the Loom . 
Whether the Loom i9 : 

(i) Throw shuttle pit loom . 
( 11) Fly shuttle pit loom . 
(iit ) Throw Shuttle frame loom . 


$ 26 THE GAZETTE OF İNDÍA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 PART ti 

UT - - - - - 
(iv ) Fly shuttle frame loom . 
( v ) Hatterseley loom . 
( vi ) Semi- automatic loom . 
( vii) of any other kind , if so , of what description : 
7. Number and date of Registration Certificate 
already held , if any . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

DECLARATION 
I hereby declare that the information furnished by me in this application is 
true to my knowledge and belief . 
Date . . . . . . , 


( Signature of the applicant ). 

[No. 4 (79 ) Tcx C / 59.) 
A , G . V . SUBRAHMANIAM , Under Secy . 

ORDER 
New Delhi, the 12th December 1960 


8 . O . 3007 / IDRA / 6 / 15 . - - In pursuance of Clause ( c ) of Rule 2 of the Develop 
ment Councils (Procedural) Rules, 1952, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri S . L . Venkateshwaran , Development Officer, Development Wing , New Delhi, 
as the Secretary to the Development Council established by the Order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S . O . 2877 , 
dated the 28th November , 1960 for the scheduled industrics engaged in the manu 
facture or production of Organic Chemicals with effect from the 28th November , 
1960 . 

[No. 1 (3 ) IA ( IV ) / 80 . 7 
D . HEJMADI, Dy. Secy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 13th December 1960 
S . O . 3008| IDRA 18G |43|60 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
18G of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 ( 65 of 1951) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following Order to amend the Cement 
Control Order 1958, namely : 
1. This Order may be called the Cement Control ( Fifth Amendzncnt) 

Order , 1960 . 
2 . In the Schedulc to the Cement Control Order, 1958 
( 1) for the entry against serial No. 18 , the following entry shall be substi 

tuted , namely : - - 


Name of producer 


Price per Metric Tonne 


" 18 . M / s. Panyam Cements and Mineral Industries 

Ltd ., Betamacherla . 


73. 32 ( 73 . 70 ) " ; 


( 2 ) at the end , the following note shall be inserted , namely : - - 
" NOTE :-- The price specified within brackets against serial No. 18 above is 

the price per British Ton for the period beginning from the 1st Janu 
ary , 1980 , and ending on the 30th September , 1960" . 

[ No. Cem -8 (34 ) /60.] 
M . L . GUPTA , Under Secy , 


SEC , 3 ( ii)| THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 , AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 3527 
= - = 

- - - - - - - - - - - -- 
(Office of the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

(Central Licensing Area ) 

NOTICE 

New Delhi, the 15th September 1960 
S . O . 3009. - It is hereby notified . that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955, the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry proposc to cancel the import Licence No . 
A781314601AUICCID , dated 20th May , 1960 valued at Rs. 1, 259 for import of 
( 1 ) Silica Heathers suitable for 3 deep Tanks - Rs. 766 ( 2 ) Immersion heathers , 
Stecl cases suitable for 3 decp Tanks — Rs. 493 from Soft Currency Area except 
union of South Africa , granted by the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports , (Central Licensing Area ) , New Delhi, to M / s . Marshall Industries of 
India , 17 - A Najutgarh Road , Industrial Area , New Delhi, unless sufficient cause 
against this is furnished to the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports 
( Central Licensing Arca ) , New Delhi, within ten days of the date of issue of this 
notice by the said M / s . Marshall Industries of India , 17 - A Najafgarh Road , In 
dustrial Area , New Delhi, or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested 
in it. 

2 . In view of what is stated above, M / s , Marshall Industries of India , 17 - A , 
Najafgarh Road, Industrial Area , New Delhi, or any Bank , or any other party , 
who may be interested in the said licence No. A781314 /60 / AU / CCI/ D . dated 20th 
May , 1960 , are hereby directed not to enter into any commitments against the 
said licence . 
M / s. Marshall Industries of India 

17 -A Najafgarh Road , Industrial Area. 
NEW DELHI. 

[ No . Genl/ 242 /2 -60 / Pol/ CLA.) 

RAM MURTI SHARMA , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 


ERRATUM 
In column 3 of the Schedule annexed to the Ministry of Commerce & Industry 
( Indian Standards Institution ) Notification No. S . O . 2498 , appearing on page 3028 , 
in the Gazette of India , Part II — Section 3 , Sub -Section (11) dated the 15th October 
1960 , please read , - 

‘ 15 - 10 -60 to 14 - 10 -61 in place of 15 - 9- 60 to 14 -9 -61 . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 


(Department of Transport) 

(Roads Wing ) 
New Delhi, the 16th November 1960 


( To he substituted for the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 

of Transport and Communications (Department of Transport ) (Roads Wing ) 
No . S . O . 2825 , dated the 15th November 1960 , published at page 3381 in 
Part 11 - Section 3 - - Sub - section ( ii) of the Gazette of India , dated the 26th 
November 1960.) 

S . O . 3010 . In exercisc of the powers conferred by section 5 of the National 
Highways Act, 1956 ( 48 of 1956 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in thc notifcation of the Government of India 


3528 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 /AGRAJAYANA 26 , 1982 [ PART II 


- 


Ministry of Transport No . S . R . O . 1181, dated the 4th April 1957, published in 
Part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India , dated the 13th April 1957, namely : 

In the Schedule to the said notification , for Serial No . 4 and the entries against 
it in column 2 and 3 , the following serial numbers and entries shall be substi 
tuted , namely : 
" 4 . So much of national highways No. 3 , No. 4 , No. 6 , 

No. 7 , No . 8 and No. 9 situated within the State 
of Maharashtra and national highway No. 50 . 

State Government 

of Maharashtra . 
4A . So much of national highway No. 8 as is situated 

within the State of Gujarat and national 
highways No. 8A and No . 8B . 

State Government 

of Gujarat." 

[ No. PL -6 ( 1 ) / 60 . 1 

BRIJ RATAN LAL , Under Secy . 
(Department of Communications and Civil Aviation ) 

( P . & T . Board ) 

New Delhi, the 3rd December 1960 
S .O , 3011. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Indian Tele 
graph Act, 1885 ( 13 of 1885 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
ing rules to amend the Indian Telegraph Rules 1951, namely : 
1. These rules may be called the Indian Telegraph (Amendmenť ) Rules , 

1960 . 
2 . After rule 450 of the Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, the following rulc 

shall be inserted namely : 
* 450 - A . Credit for difficulties encountered on Subscriber Trunk Diatled (S . T . D .) 
Calls. 

Should a subscriber cxperience difficulty on Subscriber Dialled Trunk Calls 
due to connection to wrong numbers , double connections, or uncommercial speech , 
resulting in his being charged even though he has not been able to make use of 
the S . T . D . calls , the following procedure will apply for grant of credit : 
( a ) An operator on receiving a complaint relating to S . T . D . calls such as 

connection to wrong number of engaged trunk or uncommercial 
speech on a properly effected connection , will suggest setting up af 

the call on a manual basis . 
( b ) If the caller refuses this service , no charge reduction wiil be granted . 
( c) It the caller agrees, the call will be booked and put through on a 

manual basis , according to its turn with other booked calls. The 
call will then be charged at usual manual rates , and the charges and 
other conditions prescribed in rules 447, 448, 449, 450 and 451 shall be 

applicable . 
( d ) A rebate equivalent to one minute S . T . D ., charge will be granted on 

manually completed calls set up under ( c ) above. The rebate will 
not be admissible , if for any reason the call is not completed 
manually . " 

[No. 7- 104 / 60 - PHT.} 
DINSHAW F . D . JOSHI, 
Director of Telegraph Traffic . 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 30th November 1960 
S . O . 3012 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 8 
of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 ( 19 of 1925 ) , the Central Government hereby 


Sec. 8 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDJA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 , AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 3529 


directs that the name of the following institution be added to the Schedule to the 
said Act , namely : 
The School of Planning and Architecture , New Delhi. 

[No . F . ( 18 - 2 ) /60 - T - 1 .) 

H . S . SHAHANI, 
Asstt. Educational Adviser ( T ) . 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 7th December 1960 


S . O . 3013. -- In excrcise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 2 ) of Rule 133 of 
the Indian Electricity Rules , 1956 , the Central Government hereby directs that 
the provisions of 

(i ) Rule 118 ( a ) 
( ii ) Rule 119 ( 1) ( a ) 
( iii ) Rule 50 ( 1 ) ( d ) 
(iv ) Rule 118 ( c ) 

( v ) Rulc 123 ( 7 ) 
of the said Rules shall be relaxed in respect of the use of the following apparatus 
in conjunction with Model 110 B , Bucyrus Eric , 41 cu , yd ., 3 . 3 K , V .; shovel serial 
No. 118515 , 

One 200 H , P ., 3300 volts, Westinghouse, Induction motor , serial No. 2S ,-59. 
One 200 H . P ., 3 . 3 K , V ., General Electric auto transformer starter, name 

plate details DC . 9194F6 ; DL . 2231700 G . 32 ; W / s . 3323743 . 
One 5 K . V . A ., 3300 / 480 / 240, volts , single phase , Hipersil transformer, 

serial No. 59 E 11169. 
One 5 K . V . A ., 3300 , 480 / 240 volts, single phase, Hipersil transformer , serial 

No . 59E 11170 . 
One 5 K . V . A ., 3300 /480 / 240 volts, single phase , Hipersil transformer , serial 

No . 59E 11171. 
One 7 . 5 K . V . A ., 3600 / 240 / 120 volts , single phase , Hipersil transformer , 

serial No . 59E 11187. 
One length of 660 feet; four core, pliable wire armoured T . R .S . polychlore 

prene, consisting of three power cores and one earth chloroprene 
cradel separator , polychloroprene sheathed , galvanised steel strand 
armoured one tough rubber or polychloroprene sheathed overall ; 3300 

volts grade, conductor of 0225 sq . inch , minimum cross section . 
One 50 amps , 3300 volts, type F /X125 /DO , Reyrolle switch , serial No. 29SF 

1077 . 


momoured one tou polychloroprer core 


at Gidi A colliery of Messrs National Coal Development Corporation Ltd ., to the 
extent that ( 1 ) in relaxation of Rule 118 ( a ) , the portable motor of the shovel may 
be used at 3 . 3 K , V . ( 2 ) in relaxation of Rule 119 ( 1 ) ( a ) , the bank of three single 
phase , 5 K . V . A .. 3300 / 480 / 240 volts transformers connected in delta / delta and 
single phase 7 . 5 K . V . A ., 3600 / 240 /120 volts transformer with their associated 
equipment using energy at high voltage may not be fixed apparatus as , being in 
stalled on the portable shovel moving from place to place, the same have a port 
able sense , ( 3 ) in relaxation of Rule 50 ( 1 ) ( d ) , there being no linked switches for 
control of 3 .3 K . V ., supply to the transformers Installed on the shovel the 3 : 3 K . V . 
supply to same may be controlled by the individually operated link - fuses as pro 
vided by the manufacturers , ( 4 ) in relaxation of Rule 118 ( c ) , the 120 volts system 
of supply intended for use for lighting purposes within the shovel from the single 
phase 7 . 5 K . V . A ., 3600 / 240 /120 volts lighting transformer having no mid voltage 
point for earthing and as such the voltage of the system being obtained between 
a phase and earth and not between phases as contemplated in Rule 118 ( c ) , the 120 
volts system of supply is specially considered and may be used , and ( 5 ) the length 


3530 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :DECEMBER 17, 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 [PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


of the flexible cable with the portable machine may not excced 360 feet and that 
the relaxation shall be subject to the following conditions: 
( 1) The 3 : 3 K . V . supply to the flexible cable should be provided with earth 

leakage protec hion . 
( 2 ) The installations and wirings inside the shoyol shall comply with the 

relevant provisions of the Indian Electricity Rules, 1956, in particular, 

l ules 115 , 117 , 121 , 124 and 125 . 
( 3 ) The ficxible trailing cable should be connected to the Electricity supply 

system and the machine by properly constructed connector boxes or 

totally enclosed safe attachments . 
( 4 ) The excavating machine along with the flexible trailing cable shall be 

worked and handled with due care so as to avert danger arising out 
of any electrical defect or in the use and the insulation resistance of 
the high voltage circuit including the driving motor , shall at no time 

be less than 10 megohms. 
( 5 ) The operators of the shovel shall be trained and authorised for operat 

ing the shovel with competency and due care to avoid danger. 
Provided that the aforesaid relaxation shall be vaild for such time as the 
said machine is in use in the mine and due information shall be given to the Cen 
tral Government through the Electrical Inspector of Mincs as soon as the inachine 
is taken out of the mine. 

[No, EL , II - 3 ( 15 ) /60 .1 
New Delhi, the 9th December 1960 
S . O . 3014 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -rule ( 2 ) of Rule 133 (of 
the Indian Electricity Rules , 1956 , the Central Government hereby directs that 
the provisions of 

( i ) Rule 118 ( a ) . 
( ii ) Rule 119 ( 1 ) (a ) , 
( iii ) Rule 50 ( 1) ( d ) , and 
( iv ) Rule 123 ( 7 ) . 


of the said Rules shall be relaxed in respect of the use of the following apparatus 
in conjunction with Model 4161, 3 . 3 K . V ., Marion Shovel, serial No . 22169. 

One 300 H . P ., 3300 volts, M - G Sot motor, serial No . 16N9422. 
One 10 K . V . A ., single phase , 3300 / 240 volts, transformer , serial No. 60B 

15768 . 
One 10 K . V . A ., single phase, 3300 / 240 volts, transformer, serial No. 60B 

15769 . 
One 10 K . V .A ., 3300 /240 volts, single phasc , transformer, serial No. 60B 

15770 . 
One length of 1000 feet of flexible trailing cable as per specification No. 

CS1455 four conductor type Okonex shielded okoprene cable 5 ,000 
volts grade overall dia 1 . 710 " to 1 : 750 " 6 /64 wall Okopreno 
sheath . I Braid 0 . 0126 Galvanised steel wire 35 per cent. coverage 
5 / 64 " wall Okoprene inner Jacket layer 0 .40 " . 3 conductors cabled 
each with layer rubber filled colour tape ; one green cotton braided 
ground wire ; with rubber needle Allers with one 200 amps, 5 , 000 
volts , 3 pole , typc ST., isolator, serial No. S - 0567. 


at Kathara Colliery open Cast mine of Messrs National Coal Development Cor 
poration Ltd ., to the extent that ( 1 ) in relaxation of Rule 118 ( a ) the portable 
motor of the shovel may be used at 3 : 3 K , V ., ( 2 ) in relaxation of Rule 119 ( 1 ) 
( a ) , the bank of three single phase , 10 KV . 3300 / 240 volts transformers , connect 
ed in delta / star with their associated equipment 11sc in energy at high voltage 
Inay not be fixed apparatus; as being installed on the portable shovel moving 
froin place to place , the same have u portable sense , ( 3 ) in relaxation of Rule 
50 ( 1 ) ( d ) there being no linked switches for control of 3 : 3 K . V ., supply to the 
transformers installed on the shovel, the 3 - 3 K . V ., supply to same may be con 
trolled by the individually operated link - fuses as provided by the manufacturers, 
( 4 ) in relaxation of Rule 123 ( 7 ) , flexible cablc not exceeding 1 ,000 feet in 


Sec. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 3531 
- I -ER 

- - - - - - - - - - 
length may be used with the portable machine, and that the relaxation shall be 
subject to the following conditions : 


( 1 ) The Installations and wirings inside the shovel shall comply with the 

relevant provisions of the Indian Electricity Rules , 1956 , in parti 

cular rules 115 -117, 121, 124 and 125 . 
( 2 ) The 3 : 3 K . V ., supply to the flexible cable should be provided with 

earth - leakage protection . 
( 3 ) The flexible truiling cable should be connccted to the electricity 

supply system and the machine by properly constructed connector 

boxes or totally enclosed safe attachment. 
( 4 ) The excavating machine along with the flexible trailing cable shall be 

worked and handled with due care so as to avert danger arising out 
of any elcctrical defect or in the use and the insulation resistance of 
the high voltage circuit, including the driving motor , shall at no time 

be less than 10 megohms. 
( 5 ) The operators of the shovel shall be trained and authorised for operat 

ing the shovel with competency and due care to avoid danger . 
(6 ) The particulars of the protection for the 300 H . P ., 3 ,300 volts, M . G ., 

set motor shall be furnished to the Electrical Inspector of Mines 
when application for approval to bring the shovel into use is made 
to him . 


Provided that the aforesaid relaxation shall be valid for such time as the said 
machine is in use in the minc and due information shall be given to the Central 
Government through the Electrical Inspector of Mines as soon as the machine is 
taken out of the mine. 


(No. EL -II - 3 ( 34 ) /60 .] 

N S , VASANT, 
Officer on Special Duty. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 


New Delhi, the 8th December 1960 


S . O . 3015 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Public 
Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants ) Act, 1958 ( 32 of 1958 ) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply 
No. S . O . 494, dated the 16th February , 1960 , namely : 


In the table below notification No. 494 , dated 10th February 1960, in column 

1 against Serial No. 4 substitute the words Assistant Director for 
Officer - in - charge appearing before the words Salar Jung Museum 
and Library , Hyderabad . 


[No. 14 / 3 /60- Acc. ] 


New Delhi, the 12th December 1960 


S . 0 . 3016 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Public Premises (Eviction 
of Unauthorised Occupgots ) Act, 1958 (32 of 1958 ), the Central Government hereby appoints 
the officers mentioned in column I of the table below , bcing guzetted officers of Government 
to be estate officers for the purposes of the suid Act who shall exercise the powers confcired , and 
perform the duties imposed on cstate officers by or under the said Act within the local limits of 
their respective jurisdiction in respect of the public premises specified in the corresponding 
entries in column 2 of the said table . 


22. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 26 . 1882 PART 1 


THE TABILE 


Designation of Officers 


Categories of public premises and local limits of 

jurisdiction 


vas 


1 . Executive Engineer , Calcutta Central Di. Premises under thc administrative control of the 

vision No, IV , Central Public Works De- C . P . W . D . situated within the local limits of his 
partment , Calcutta . 

jurisdiction . 
2 . Executive Engineer, Madras Central 

Do, 
Division (North ), C . P . W . D . , Madras . 
3 . Executive Engineer, Madras Central 

Division (South ), Central P . W . D ., Mad 

ras, 
4 . Executive Engineer Coimbatore Central 

Division , C . P . W . D ., Coimbatore (South 

ern Railway). 
S . Executive Engineer , Nagpur Centrul 

Division , Central Public Works Depart 
ment , Nagpur . 


[No. 14 /3 /60 -Acc. ] 
N . VISVANATHAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1960 
so 3017 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section (i ) of Sec 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 
of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S . P . Kashyap as Assis 
tant Settlement Omcer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to 
such oficers by or under the said Act with effcct from the date he took charge 
of his office . 

[No. 8 ( 227 ) /Admn. ( R ) (G ) /CSC / 60. ] 


New Delhi, the 8th December 1960 
S . O . 3018 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 (44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Rajeshwar Singh Phoolka , 
Deputy Secretary , Rehabilitation Department, Punjab Government to be a 
Settlement Commissioner in the State of Punjab , for the purpose of performing, 
in addition to his own duties as Deputy Secretary Punjab Government the 
functions assigned to a Settlement Commissioner by or under the said Act . In 
respect of agricultural lands and shops in any rural area including houses, cattle 
sheds and vacant sites, if any, in any such area allotted alongwith any such lands 
and forming part of the Compensation Pool. 

[No. F , 3 ( 51 ) / Pol-II/ 60 -Lands. ] 


New Delhi, the 12th December 1960 
S . O . 3019 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section ( 1) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hercby appoints Shri R . S . L . Srivastava as Assis 
tant Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to 
such officers by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took charge 
of his office. 

INO. 8 / 229 / AR ( Per /CSC /60 .] 


- 


- 


- 


- 


SŁU , 9 ( li ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 , AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 3593 

= - - 
Ş . 0 . 3020 , — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section ( 1 ) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ), the Cen 
tral Government hereby appoints for the State of Rajasthan , Shri G . R . Jetley 
for the time being holding the post of Managing Onicer in the office of the 
Regional Settlement Commissioner, Jaipur, as Assistant Cus .odian for the pur 
pose of discharging the duties assigned to the Custodian hy or under the said 
Act with effect from the date he took over charge of his office . 

[No. 4 ( 71 ) Admn.( Prop ) /58 / ARG .) 


S . O . 3021 ,- - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( i ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri B . C . Nigam as Assistant 
Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functiuns assigned to such 
officers by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took charge of his 
office . 

[No. 8 ( 228 ) / Admn. ( R ) ( G ) /CSC / 60), ] 


S . O . 3022 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( i ) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 ( XXXI of 1950 ), the Cen 
tral Government hereby appoints for the State of Maharashtra , Shri R . P . Kylsere 
stha, Assistant Settlement Officer in the office of the Regional Settlement Com 
missioner , Bombay As Assistant Custodian for the purpose of discharging the 
duties imposed on Custodian by or under the said Act with effect from the date 
he took over charge of his office , 


S . O . 3023 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section ( i ) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Din Dyal Jain as 
Assistant Settlement Officer , for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officers by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took 
charge of his office . 

[No. 8 ( 230 ) / Admin . ( R ) /60. ] 

KANWAR BAHADUR , 
Settlement Commissioner ( A ) and 

Ex -Officio Dy. Socy . 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 8th December 1960 
S . O . 3024 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 
34 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 , I, S . W . 
Shiveshwarkar, hereby delcgate to Shri Rajeshwar Singh Phoolka , Settlement 
Commissioner , Punjab , the powers conferred upon me under Section 23 , 24 and 
28 of the said Act for thc purpose of passing necessary orders under these 
Şections in so far as they relate to the custody, management and disposal of 
property ( including agricultural land ) in the State of Punjab in a rural area 
as defined in clause ( 1 ) of rule 2 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and 
Rehabilitation ) Rules, 1955 , which forms part of the Compensation Pool. 

[No. 3 ( 51) Pol - II / 80 -Lands.] 
S . W . SHIVESHWARKAR , 
Chicf Settlement Commissioner, 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 9th December 1960 
S . O . 3025 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 ( 32 of 1947 ) , and in super 
session of the notification of the Government of India in the late Department of 
Labour No . LW . 1 (4 ) 47 ( 2 ) , dated the 14th June, 1947, the Central Government 


3534. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


hereby flxes , with effect on and from the first January, 1961, the duty of excise 
on all coal and coke despatched from collieries in the territories to which the 
said Aut extends, at 49. 21 n . P . ( Fortynine decimal two one naye paise ) per metric 
tonne . 

[No. 4 ( 18 ) 60 -MIIT 


New Delhi, the 13th December 1960 
S . O . 3026 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
5 of the Mines Act , 1952, ( 35 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri Kamalendu Paul, an officer of the Office of the Chief Inspector of Minies, to 
be an Inspector of Mines subordinate to the Chief Inspector. 

[No. MI-8 (88 ) / 58 .] 
A . P . VEERA RAGHAVAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 12th December 1960 
S . O . 3027. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Salaiya No. 2 Mica Mine and their workmen . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No. 39 OF 1960 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Salaiya No. 2 Mica Mine 

AND 
Their workmen 

Dhanbad, dated the 29th November 1960 
PRESENT; 
Shri G . Palit, M . A . B .L ., Chairman , Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad. 
No appearance on either side . 
State : Bilar. 

Industry : Coal. 


AWARD 
The Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, by its Order 
No. 20 / 2 /60 - LRII, dated the 18th August 1960 made in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (XIV of 47 ) , referred the aforesaid dispute to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal at Dhanbad presided over by me for adjudication concerning 
the matters as per schedule below : 


SCHEDULE 


" Whether the action of the management of Salaiya No. 2 Mica Mine, in 

discharging Shri Braj Kishore Choubey, Compressor driver, with effect 
from 12th November 1959, was justified ? If not, to what relief is he 

entitled ? " 
2 . I need not go into the facts involved in the present case because the parties 
have Aled a joint petition of compromise by which the management has agrced 
to pay Rs. 248 (Rupees two hundred and fortyeight ) only by way of full and final 
settlement of all dues of Shri Choubey and that the claim for re - employment is 
dropped . 

3 . As the said petition of compromise was not supported by any affidavit or 
on any other evidence in support of its genuineness , the Tribunal called upon the 
parties to address it by way of confirmation of the said agreement The manage 
ment by its letter No. CH - 4803 / 60, dated 26th November 1960 has affirmed the 


SEC , 3 ( 11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960 :AGRALIAYANA 26 , 1882 3535 


- - 


- - - 


agreement arrived at on 29th October 1960 with its contents , So I pass an award 
in terms of the said petition of compromise which is incorporated as a part of the 
present award . It is embodied in uppendix . 

Dhanbad , 
The 29th November, 1960 . 

(Sd.) G . PALIT, Chairman , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 


AD 


APPENDIX 
Before the Chairman , Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

REFERENCE No. 39 OF 1960 
PARTIES. Employers in relation to Salalya No. 2 Mica Mine of M / s. Chatturam 

Horilram Private Ltd , 


AND 


Their workmen represented by Abrakh Mazdoor Union . 
May it please the Tribunal, we, the parties to the above dispute , have reached 
the following settlement and pray that an Award be kindly made thereoť. 

The Union does not claim for the re -employment of Shri Braj Kishore Chaubey . 
The Management agrees to pay Rs. 248 (Rupees Two hundred and forty eight ) 
only in way of the full and final settlement of dues of Shri Chaubey , as claimed by 
the Union and the amount in question has already been paid to Shri Chaubey in 
presence of the General Secretary of the Union . 

On behalf of workmen , 
Sd / - HARISH CHANDRA MISHRA , 
General Secretary , 
Abarakh Mazdoor Union , 
Jhumritelaiya ( P . O . ) , 
Kodarma, E . Rly . 

On behalf of Employers . 

Sd / - , . , , . 
M / s . Chatturam Horilram ( P ) Ltd ., 
Jhumritelaiya ( P .O .) , Kodarma, 

E . Rly . 
D . B . 

Accepted . 

( Sd .) G . PALIT, Chairman , 
The 29th November, 1960. 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhunbad. 

No. 20 / 2 /60 -LRII. ) 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 7th December 1960 


S . O . 3028. -- Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Palana Colliery and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the sald 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Delhi, constituted under section 7A of the saint Act 


2526 THE GAZETTE OF INDLI ; DECEMBER 17, 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 26 , 1882 PART 11 

- - - - - - - - - 

SCHEDULE 


Whether the termination of employment, with effect from 1st September , 1958 
by the management of Palana Colliery of Shri Abhey Nath , ex-bonus clerk , was 
justified , and iſ not, to what relief he is entitled . 

[No. 2 /148 / 60 -LRII.] 
S . O . 3029 .-- -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Union Co -operative Insur 
ance Society Limited , Bombay , and their workmen in respect of the matters 
speciflcd in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
disputo for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 
1 . Whether the pay scales of ( a ) clerical staff , i. e . Assistants ( junior and 

senior ) and Stenographers ; ( b ) Sectional heads ; and ( c ) Sub - staff, 
such as peons, sweepers , bearers , etc, are satisfactory ? If not, what 
modifications are necessary and what relief should be granted to the 

employees and from which date after 22nd September , 1958 ? 
2 . Whether the rates of Dearness Allowance paid to the employees , are 

adequate ? If not, to what relief are the employees entitled and from 

which date after 22nd September , 1958 ? 
3 . Whether the existing scheme of gratuity is satisfactory ? If not, what 

modifications are necessary ? 
4 . Whether the procedure provided in the existing services rules in regard 

to disciplinary action , appeals , transfers, etc ., is satisfactory ? If not, 
what modifications are necessary ? 

[No. 11 ( 37) /59 -LRII .] 


CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi, the 7th December 1960 


S . O . 3030 — In the Schedule to the Order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S . O . 2747, dated the 7th November , 1960 . 
published on pages 3329 - 3330 of the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 ( li ) , dated 
the 12th November, 1960 
(i) against Serial Number 10, for " Shri Mahadin Ahir " read " Shri Matadin 

Ahir " . 
( ii ) against Serial Number 11, for " Shri Prakash Passi” read " Shri Pargas 

Passi" . 
( ili ) against Scrial Number 13 , for " Shri Nathain Passi” read " Shri Nathai 

Passi" . 
( iv ) against Serial Number 21, for " Shri Kali Passi No. 2" read " Shri Kalu 

Passi No . II ” , 
( v ) against Scrial Number 25 , for " Shri Nabratan Koirl" read " Shri 

Narottom Koiri" . 
(vi) against Serial Number 27, for " Shri Changru Kumhar" read " Shri 
Changulal Kumar " . 

[ No. 2 /219 /60 -LRII.) 
S . N . TULSIANI, Under Secy . 


Sec , 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17 , 1960/ AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 3537 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 9th December 1980 
S . O . 3031 . - It is notiſed for general information that consequent upon the 
abolition of the Delhi Section of the Advisory Panels of the Central Board of 
Film Censors , Shrinati Madalsa Sriman Narayan will cease to be member of the 
Bombay Advisory Panel with immediate effect . 

[ No, F . 11 / 1 / 59 - FC . ; 
S . O . 3032. - It is notiled for general Information that the following persons 
have retired from the membership of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board 
of Film Censors at Bombay , Calcutta and Madras with effect from the dates shown 
against them ; 


Name 


Date of retirement 


Name of Panel 


4 . 


" 


1. Shri Krishna Kripalani 
2 . Smt. Manoraira Singh 
3 . Shri Mahendra Nath 

Smt, Chandravati Lakhanpal 
5 . Shri Radha Raman , M .P . 

Shri Banarsi Das Chaturvedi, M .P . 
7 Sbri Gopi Nath A nan 
8. Smt. D . L . Mazu ndar 
9. Shri Tajanial Hussain , M . P . 


28 - 8 - 60 
28 - 8 - 60 

28 - 8 -60 
21 - 11- 60 
30 - 9 - 60 
30- 9 -60 
16 - 10 - 60 
30 - 10 - 60 

28 - 9 - 60 


Bombay Panel 

- do 
-do 
- do 
- do 

-do 
Madras Panel 

- do 
Calcutta Panel 


[No. F . 11 / 1 /59 - FC .] 
S . PADMANABHAN , Under Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1960 


