KKOI8TERKD No. 0. ttt 


< 3he<2tette 



of iitbta 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 




No. 29] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, AUGUST 30, 1958/BHADRA 8, 1880 

~ » - _ - - ■■ ■■ ■■ y 

NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 20th Au- 
i*t 1958 : — 


iUC 

No. and date 

Issued by 

Subject 


G.S.R. 66i-A, dated the 
3rd August 1958. 

Ministry of Finance 

Exemption of goods, when 

imported, from the whole of 
customs duty, specified there- 


G.S.R. 661-B, dated the 
3rd August 1958. 

Central Board of Revenue 

in. 

The Tourist Baggage Rules, 
1958 . 

A 

G.S.R. 700A, dated the 
13th August 1958. 

Ministry of Law, 

Amendments made in the 

Representation of the People 
(Conduct of Elections and 
Election Petitions) Rules, 
1956. 

20 

G.S.R. 703, dated the 16th 
August 1958. 

Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture. 

The Wheat (South Zone Export 


Control) Order, 1958. 

21 

G.S.R. 704, dated the 

1 8th August 1958. 

Ministry of Labour and 

Draft amendments to be made 


Employment . 

in the Minimum Wages 

(Control) Rules, 1950. 

22 

G.S.R. 728, dated the 

1 8th August 1958. 

1 

Ministry of Home Affairs 

The All India Services (Dcath- 
CHW-Rctiremcnt Benefits) 

Rules, 1958. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
ident to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
ubmitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
{azettes. 


PART n — Section 3 — Sub-section (i) 

General Statutory Rules (Including orders, bye-laws etc. of a general 
character) issued by the Ministries of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central Authorities (other than 
the Administrations of Union Territories). 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi , the 25 th August 1958 

G.SJR. 736. — The following notifications issued by the Sikkim Darbar are 
published for general information; — 

"1. Notification No, 687 /F.S.. 

It is hereby notified that whereas the Government of India have agreed that 
the summonses and other processes issued by the High Court and all other Civil 

( 679 ) 


68o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST SO, 1958/BHADRA 8, 1880 [Pa*t I] 


and Revenue Courts of Sikkim may be served by the Courts in India for a period 
of three years with effect from the 15th January, 1958, the Sikkim Darbar have 
also agreed that the summonses and other processes issued by the Civil and 
Revenue courts in India may be served by the Courts in Sikkim for the above 
period of three years. 

By Order of His Highness the 
Maharaja of Sikkim, 

Tse Ten Tashi, 

Gangtok, Sikkim: Private Secretary to His Highness the 

The 29 th July , 1958. Maharaja of Sikkim. 

2. Notification No. 686/P. S., 

It is hereby notified that whereas the Government of India have agreed that 
the decrees passed by the High Court and all other Courts of Sikkim whose civil 
jurisdiction is not subject to any pecuniary limit may be executed by the District 
courts in India for a period of three years with effect from the 15th January, 
1958, the Sikkim Darbar have also agreed that the decrees passed by the following 
courts in India, namely: — 

(I) The Supreme Court. 

(II) All High Courts and Judicial Commissioners, 

(III) All District Courts, 

(IV) All other courts whose civil jurisdiction is subject to no pecuniary limit 

provided the judgment or the decree sought to be executed is sealed 
with a seal snowing that the jurisdiction of the court is subject to 
no pecuniary limit, may be executed in Sikkim by the Court of the 
Chief Magistrate for the above period of three years. 

Explanation. — “Decree” in this notification means any decree or judgement 
under which a sum of money is payable not being a sum payable in respect of 
taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty, 
but shall in no case include an arbitration award, even if such an award is 
enforceable as a decree or judgement. 


Gangtok, Sikkim; 
The 29th July, 1958. 


By Order of His Highness the 

Maharaja of Sikkim 
Tse Ten Tashi, 

Private Secretary to His Highness the 
Maharaja of Sikkim. 


[No. F. 40(6)/56-J.) 
B. N. LOKUR, Jt. Secy/* 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi-2, the 21st August 1958 

G.S.R. 737. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to 
article 309, and clause (5) of article 148, of the Constitution, the President, after 
consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India in relation to 
persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, hereby makes the 
following further amendment In the Civil Service Regulations, namely: — 

For article 351 A, of the said Regulations, following article shall be substituted^, 
namely : — 

“351A. The President further reserved to himself the right of withholding 
or withdrawing a pension or any part of it, whether permanently or 
for a specified period, and the right of ordering the recovery from a 
pension of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to Govern- 
ment, if the pensioner is found In departmental or judicial proceedings 



Sic. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 30, 1958/BHADRA 8, 1880 


68i 


to have been guilty of grave misconduct, or to have caused pecuniary 
loss to Government by misconduct or negligence, during hiB service 
Including service rendered on re-employment after retirement. 

Provided that— 

(a) such departmental proceedings, it not instituted while the officer was on 
duty either before retirement or during re-employment,— 

(i) shall not be instituted save with the sanction of the President; 

(ii) shall be in respect of an event which took place not more than four 

years before the institution of such proceedings; 

(iii) shall be conducted by such authority and in such place or places as the 

President may direct and in accordance with the procedure applica- 
ble to proceeding on which an order of dismissal from service may 
be made; 

(b) such judicial proceedings, if not instituted while the officer was on duty 
either before retirement or during re-employment, shall have been instituted in 
accordance with sub-clause (ii) of clause (a); and 

(c) the Union Public Service Commission shall be consulted before final 
orders are passed. 

Explanation, — For the purposes of this article — 

(a) departmental proceeding shall be deemed to have been instituted when the 
charges framed against the pensioner are issued to him, or, if the officer has been 
placed under suspension from an earlier date, on such date; and 

(b) judicial proceedings shall be deemed to have been instituted — 

(i) in the case of criminal proceedings, on the date on which a complaint 
is made, or a charge-sheet is submitted, to a criminal court, and 

(ii) in the case of civil proceedings, on the date on which the plaint is 
presented or, as the case may be, an application is made, to a civil 
court,” 


[No. F. 7 (73) -E.V/58.]. 
C. B. GULATI, Dy, Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 25 th August 1958 

G.S.R. 738. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 40 of the, 
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) the Central Government hereby 
directs that the notifications of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance 
(Department of Economic Affairs), No. F.3(77)-E.F.VTI/55-A (S.R.O. 1780) and No, 
F,3(77)-E.F,VII/55-B (S.R.O. 1781), both dated the 16th August, 1955, shall stand 
rescinded with effect from the expiry of the 1st day of September. 1958, 

[No. F.3(136)-E & P/68.] 

G.S.R. 739.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Foreign 
Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (7 of 1947), the Central Government hereby directs 
that the following further amendments shall be made in the Foreign Exchange 
Regulation Rules, 1952, with effect from the expiry of the 1st day of September, 
1958, namely: — 

In the said rules— 

1. in the First Schedule in Form E.P. — 

(a) for clause (a) of Section (item) 5, in the original duplicate and triplicate 
copy of the Form, the following shall be substituted, namely; — 

“(a) Goods invoiced in permitted foreign currency and payment received 
rnrough a bank In India by: 

(i) negotiating or sending for collection bills and/or documents drawn in 

(state the name of currency). 

(ii) Remittance in (state the name of 

currency). 



6g2 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST SO, 1958/BHADRA 8, 1880 [Pa»t II 


(b) In the "Notes to Exporters” in the original Form, for items (1) and (2) 
under the heading "For Pakistan”, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

"(1) Pakistan rupees, sterling, or any sterling area currency section 5(a). 

(2) Indian rupees from the account of a bank in any country in the sterling 
area other than India.”; section 5(b). 

(c) in the Certificate by authorised dealer in the triplicate copy of the Form — 

(i) for the words and brackets "(state the value in Pakistan Rupees)” the 

words and brackets "(state the currency and value)” shall be 
substituted; 

(ii) for the words, figure and brackets 

"(i) by credit (s) to our account with our agents in Pakistan” the words, 
figure and brackets ‘‘(i) by credlt(s) to our account with our agent 

in (state the name of country)” 

shall be substituted. 

II, in the Second Schedule — 

(a) In item C, under the second column headed “Approved methods of finance”, 
the words “and Pakistan” wherever they occur shall be omitted. 

(b) the Note appearing under item C shall be omitted. 

[No. F. 35(23)-EFII/50.] 
A. C. BANERJEE, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Customs 

New Delhi, the 30th August 1958 

G.S.R. 740. — The following draft of certain rules which the Central Government 
proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry, is published as required by sub-section (3) of that section for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby, and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken Into consideration on or after the 30th September,, 
1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person In regard 
to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 


DRAFT RULES 

1. Short title.— -These rules may be called the Customs Duties Drawback 
(Alabaster articles) Rules, 1958. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(a) "Act” means the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878): 

(b) ‘goods” means handicrafts and other articles manufactured In India or 

the State of Pondicherry and in the manufacture of which imported 
material has been used; 

(c) "imported material” means alabaster imported into India or the State of 

Pondicherry on payment of customs duty. 

3. Goods in respect of which drawback may be paid.— Subject to the provisions 
of the Act and these rules, a drawback shall be allowed i n respect of the imported 
material used in the manufacture of the goods exported from India or the State 
of Pondicherry, or shipped as stores for use on board a ship proceeding to a 
foreign port. 

4. Rate of drawback, — The rate of drawback admissible under these rules on 
the shipment of the goods shall be one hundred and twenty-five rupees per ton of 
the imported material contained in the goods shipped. 

5. Manner of allowing drawback. — Drawback shall be allowed on the shipment 
of the goods from any port in India cr the State of Pondicherry subject to the 
following conditions, namely: — 

(a) that the shipper shall, on the relative shipping bill, 

(i) declare that a claim for drawback under section 43B of the Act Is 
being made; 



Sec, 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 30, 1953/BHADKA 8, 1880 683 


(ii) declare the weight of the imported material contained in the goods 
under shipment; and 

(b) that the shipper shall furnish the Customs Collector with a copy of the 
shipment invoice or any other document giving details of the descrip- 
tion, quantity and value of the goods under shipment. 

fl. Powers of Customs Collector. — For the purpose of these rules, the Customs 
Collector may require the shipper or the manufacturer of the goods to produce 
any books of accounts or other documents relating to the quantity of the imported 
material used in the manufacture of the goods and the duty paid thereon. 

7. Access to manufactory.— The manufacturer of the goods in respect of which 
a drawback is claimed under these rules shall give an access to every part of the 
manufactory to any officer of the Centra] Government specially authorised in this 
behalf by the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief Customs Authority, to enable 
the officer so authorised to Inspect the processes of manufacture and to verify by 
actual cheek or otherwise the statements made in support of the claim for drawback. 

[No. 235/F. No. 34/189/58. Cus-IV,] 

G.S.R. 741.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as 

applied to the State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby directs that 
a drawback shall be allowed in accordance with and subject to the provisions of 
the said section and any rules made thereunder, in respect of duty paid foreign 
pyrethrum flower and kerosene used in the manufacture of pyrethrum extract 
when such extract is manufactured in, and exported from, India or the State of 
Pondicherry. 

TNo. 23G/F. No. 34/39/57-Cus. IV.] 

G.S.R. 742. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of sec- 
tion 43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as 

applied to the State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the Customs Duties Drawback (Ivory Products) Rules, 
.057, the same having been previously published as required under the said sub- 
notion (3), namely: — 

Amendment 

In rule 4 of the said Rules, for the words “three rupees”, the words ‘‘six rupees 
and sixty naye paisc” shall be substituted. 

[No, 237/F. No. 34/20/58-Cus. IV.] 


Customs and Central Excise 
New Delhi, the 30 th August 1958 

G.S.R. 743. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3] of sec- 
tion 43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as 
applied to the State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules the same having been previously published as required under 
the said sub-section (3), namely: — 

THE CUSTOMS AND .CENTRAL EXCISE DUTIES DRAWBACK 
(PYRETHRUM EXTRACT) RULES, 1958 

1. Short title, — These rules may be called the Customs and Central Excise 
Duties Drawback (Pyrethrum Extract) Rules, 1958. 

2, Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(a) “goods” means a 2 per cent, extract of pyrethrum flowers in kerosene 

manufactured in India or the State of Pondicherry and in the manu- 
facture of which duty-paid material has been used. 

(b) “duty-paid materials’’ mean— 

(i) pyrethrum flower and kerosene, imported on payment of customs 

duty into India or the State of Pondicherry; 

(ii) kerosene oil manufactured in India or the State of Pondicherry and 

on which Central Excise duty has been paid; 

(c) "refund” means drawback of import duty on imported pyrethrum 

flower and kerosene oil and rebate of Central Excise Duty on 
indigenous kerosene. 



684 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 30, 195B/BHADRA 8, 1880 


[Part II 


3. Goods in respect of refund may be paid, — Subject to the provisions of the 
Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878) and the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 
(1 of 1944), and of these rules and subject also to such of the provisions of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944, as may be applicable in this behalf, a refund shall be 
allowed in respect of the duty-paid materials used in the manufacture of the 
goods exported from India or the Statei of Pondicherry, or shipped as stores for 
use on board a ship proceeding to a foreign port. 

4. Rate of refund. — The rate: of refund admissible under these rules shall be 
eight rupees per Imperial gallon of the goods shipped. 

3. Exporters declaration and documents. — At the time of the shipment of the 
goods, the exporter shall — 

(i) make a declaration on the relative shipping bill that a claim for refund ' 

under these rules is being made; 

(ii) state on the shipping bill the description, quantity and such other 

particulars as are necessary for the determination of the rate and 
amount of refund; and 

(iii) furnish the Customs Collector with a copy of the shipment invoice or 

any other document giving details of the description, quantity and 
value of the goods under shipment. 

6. Tlme-llmlt for refund claim. — No payment of refund shall be made under 
these rules unless the exporter prefers his claim for refund within six months 
from the date of entry for shipment, duly supported by evidence of compliance 
with the provisions of these rules. 

7. Powers of Customs Collector. — For the purpose of these rules, the Customs 
Collector may' require the shipper or the manufacturer of the goods to produce 
any books of accounts or other documents relating to the proportion and quantity 
of the duty-paid materials used in the manufacture of the goods and the duty- 
paid thereon. 

8. Access to manufactory.— The manufacturer of the goods in respect of 
which a refund is claimed under these rules shall give access to every part OT 
the manufactory to any officer of the Central Government specially authorised 
In this behalf by the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief Customs Authority to 
enable the officer so authorised to inspect the processes of manufacture and to 
verify by actual check or otherwise the statements made in support of the claim 
for drawback. 


[No. 52/F. No. 34/39/57. Cus-IV,] 
G. S. SAWHNEY, Under Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Central Excises 

New Delhi, the 30 th August 1958 

G.S.R. 744. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), as In force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendments to the Central Excise Rules, 1944, namely: — 

(1) In rule 177 of the said rules, for the words "the said Collector or other 
officer", the words "the officer" and for the words "the twelve months preceding 
the thirtieth day of September”, the words "the twelve months preceding the flrsl 
day of October’ shall be substituted; 

(2) In Appendix I to the said rules, In the Forms in Central Excise Series, In 

the fourth paragraph of Form B.6 and Form B;8 (Gen. Sur.) and In the sixth 
paragraph of Form B;8 (Gen. Sec,), for the words "within from the dab 

of this Bond”, the following words shall be substituted, namely: — 

“within from the date of demand”. 


[No. 89/38 

ti. S. MARTHANDAM, Under Secy 



Sec, 8(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 30, I958/BHADRA 8, 1880 


685 


(Department of Revenue) 

Central Excises 

New Delhi, the 30 th August 1958 

G.S.R. 145. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (1) of rule 8 
of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby directs that the following further 
amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Finance. (Revenue Division) No. CER-8(2)/56, dated the 14th 
January, 1956, namely: — 

In proviso (1) to the said notification, after clause (f), the following clause 
shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(g) as solvents, thinner s or diluents for the extraction, isolation or purifica- 
tion of articles of the nature of drugs, chemicals, perfumery chemi- 
cals and concentrates, dyes, synthetic resins, explosives produced in 
synthetic, partly synthetic, or other chemical processes of manufac- 
turing them;”. 

[No. 90/58.] 
G. P. DURAIRAJ, Under Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Medicinal and Toilet Preparations 
New Delhi, the 30 th August 1958 

G.S.R. 146.— In pursuance of sub-rule (2) of rule 60 of the Medicinal and 
Toilet Preparations (Excise Duties) Rules, 1956 the Central Government hereby 
declares that the new medicinal preparation specified in the Table below shall 
be included In the category of unrestricted preparations: — 

Table 

( Unrestricted Preparations ) 

1. T.C.F. Vitamin B Complex (Oral Liquid) (including Vitamin B 12). 

[No. 14.] 
M. C. DAS, Dy. Secy. 

COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE, CALCUTTA 

General Administration 
Calcutta, the 7 th August 1958. 

G. S. R.747. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by rule 27 of the Department 
of Revenue Allotment Rules, 1958, I hereby empower the Central Excise officers specified in the 
V- following table to exercise within their respective jurisdiction in the States of west Bengal and 
Orisaa, the powers of “Collector" conferred by the provisions of the rules which arc enumerated 
in Col. 2 of the table subject to restrictions Bet out in Col. 3 thereof : — 


Rule of the Department of 

Rank of officer. Revenue Allotment Rules, 1958 Restrictions, if any. 

under which the powers are 
delegated. 


Head of Office. 

4 

Nil 

»t 

5 

37 

r> 

7 

37 

r% 

8 

33 

33 

9 

33 

11 

12 

33 

*J 

14 

33 

13 

18 

>3 

31 

21 

33 

M 

23 

33 

» 

24 

33 


[No. C. I(4)92/s8/24432'B] 

S. C. MATHUR, Colltctor . 



686 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 30, 1958/BHADRA 8, 1880 [Part H 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 25th August 1958 

G.S.R. 748. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), and in supersession of the notification of th« 
Government of India in the late Ministry of States No. S.R.O. 513 dated the fith 
September, 1950 and in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. 1504 dated 
the 29th September, 1951, the Central Government hereby directs that the power 
to make orders under section 3 of the said Act to provide for the matters speci- 
fied in clauses (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i) and (j) of sub-section 
(2) of the said section shall, in relation to cotton textiles, be exercisable also by 
the Administrator of a Union territory, subject to the condition that no order 
made by the Administrator in the exercise of the aforesaid power shall have- 
effect in so far as it is repugnant to any Order made under the said section by 
the Central Government. 

[No. 2(20) -TEX (A) /58-I. J 
B. K. VARMA, Under Secy- 


Tea Control 

New Delhi, the 18 th August 1958 

G.S.R. 749.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 49 of the Tea 
Act, 1953 (29 of 1953), the Central Government hereby makes the following: 
further amendment in the Tea Rules, 1954, the same having been previously pub- 
lished, as required by sub-section (1) of the said section, namely: — 

In the said Rules, — 

After rule 14, the following rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

“14A. Term of Office of Members of Committee who are Members of 
Board . — A member of the Board who is a member of a Committee 
shall on his ceasing to be member of the Board cease to be a mem- 
ber of the Committee.” 

LNo. 8 (9) Plant (A)/58,l 
P, V. RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. 


(Department of Company Law Administration) 

Company Law 

New Delhi, the 25 th August 1958 

G.S.R. 750. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (a) and (b) of sub- 
section (1) of section 642 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the Companies 
(Central Government’s) General Rules and Forms, 1950, namely: — 

In the said rules, — 

(1) in Form 32, in the heading “A-Particulars of the persons who are Directors”, 
for the word “Directors”, the words "first Directors” shall be substituted. 

(2) in Form 33- — 

(a) (1) for the heading “A-Alteration in the Particulars of the persons who are 
Directors", the following heading shall be substituted, namely: — 

"A. Change among Directors and alteration in the particulars of the persons who 
are Directors"; and 

(ii) for the headings of columns 7 and 8 of the table appearing thereunder, the 
following shall be substituted, namely: — 


"Date of alteration Or, in the case of appoint- 
ments made after the appointment of first 
Directors, the date of appointment 
(7) 


Alterations in particulars in respect O 
persons previously notified gs Director 
(including first Directors (c) 

( 8 ) 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 80. 1958/BHADRA 8, 1880 


687 


(b) (1) for the heading “B. Alteration in the particulars of the person/persons 
who is Managing Agent/are Secretaries and Treasurers”, the following shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“B. Change among Managing Agent/Secretaries and Treasurers and altera* 
tions in the particulars of the person/persons who is Managing Agent/are 
Secretaries ana Treasurers’’; and 

(11) the letter and brackets “(C)” occurring in the heading of column 4 of the 
table appearing thereunder shall be omitted and for the headings of columns 5 and 
6 of the table, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 


Date of alteration or, in the case Alteration in particulars in respect of pei son/persons 
of fresh appointment, the date of previously notified as Managing Agent/ Secretaries and' 
appointment (c) Treasures (c) 

( 5 ) ( 6 ) 


(c) (i) for the heading “C. Alteration in the particulars of the person who is 
Manager/Secretary”, the following shall be substituted: — 

"(C). Change In Managership /Secretaryship and alteration in the particulars of 
the person who is Manager /Secretary,”; and 

(ii) for the headings of columns 6 and 7 of the table appearing thereunder, the 
following shall be substituted, namely: — 


'‘Date of alteration or, in the case Alteration in particulars in respect of person 

of fresh appointment, the dare of previously notified as Manager/Secrerary (c) 

appointment (c) 

(6) (7) 


(d) for foot-note (c) to the said Form 33, the following foot-note shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

"(c). A note of changes among Directors, Managing Director, Managing Agent, 
Secretaries and Treasurers, Manager or Secretary, etc. should be made in these 
columns, e.g. by inserting against the name of a new director, etc., the words “in 

place of ’ and by indicating against the name of the former director, 

the cause for the change, e.g. by death/rcsignation/retirement/rotation/removal/ 
disqualification. 

[No. 8/303/58-PR.] 
T. S: MENON, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Food) 

ORDER 

New Delhi , the 26th August 1958 

G.SJt, 7G1. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central (government hereby makes the- 




688 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 30 , I 958 /BHADRA 8, 1880 [Part II 


amendment in the Manipur Foodgrains (Movement) Control Order, 
1956 , namely: — 


Amendment 

In item ( 1 ) of the proviso to clause 3 of the said Order, for the words "five 
eieers , the words “ten seers” shall be substituted, 

[No. 204 ( 1 ) / 58 -PY.IL] 
S. N. BHALLA, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi- 2 , the 19 th A.ugust 1958 

G.S.R. 152 . — In pursuance of rule 57 of the Indian Port Health Rules, 
1956 , the Central Government hereby authorises the Port Health Officer, Kandla, 
to Issue Deratting Exemption Certificates. 


[No. F. 15 - 6 / 58 -IH.] 
A. T. SESHADRI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 19th August 1958 

G.S.R. 753. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (i) of article 258 of th e 
Constitution and in supersession of the existing notifications on the subject noted below 
and in partial modification of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Home Affairs No. S.R.O. 89, dated the 8th January, 1957, the President hereby 
entrusts, with their consent, to the Governments of the States specified in column (1) of 
the Schedule below, the functions of the Central Government under sections 17, 49 and 50 
of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15 of 1908), in respect of ports specified in the corresponding 
entries in column (2) of the said Schedule. 

t. Notification of the late Department of Education, Health and Lands No. F. 10-1/38-G., 
dated the 30th March, 1938 as amended by notification of the Government of India, Ministry 
of Health, No. F. 17-1/53-PHI (PII), dated the 4th June, 1954. 

2. Notification of the Government of India, Ministry of Health No. F, 2-1/50-PHII (D.897- 
IH/55), dated the 27th April, 1956. 


The Schedule 


Name of the State 

(t) 

Ports 

(2) 

Madras .... 

All ports in the State of Madras except the port of 
Madras 

Bombay .... 

. All ports in the State of Bombay except the ports 
ot Bombay and Kandla. 

Orissa 

. All ports in the State of Orissa. 

Andhra Pradesh 

. All ports in the State of Andhra Pradesh except the 
port of Visakhapatnam. 

Kerala ..... 

All ports In the State of Kerala except Cochin. 


[No. F. 15-7/58 IH.] 

A. V. VENKATASUBBAN, Dy. Secy. 


Sec. 3(i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 30, 1953/BHADRA 8, 1880 


689 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi-2, the 20t k August 1958 

G.S.R. 754, — In exercise of the. powers conferred by the proviso to 
article 309 of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules 
regulating the recruitment of persons to the posts of Research Assistants (Hindi), 
in the Ministry of Education, namely: 

1. These Rules may be called the Ministry of Education [Recruitment of 

Research Assistants (Hindi)] Rules, 1958. 

2. The number of posts of Research Assistants (Hindi) and their classifica- 

tion and scale of pay shall be as are set out in columns 1 to 4 of the 

Scheduled annexed hereto. 

3. The method of recruitment to these posts, age-limit, the qualification 

and the period of probation shall be as are set out in columns 5 to 

13 of the said Schedule. 



6 9 0 the GAZETTE OF INDIA 

: AUGUST 

10 , I958/BHADRA 8, 1880 

[Part II 

SCHB 

Name of post N°. of posts 

Classifica- 

tion 

Scale of 
pay 

Whether se- 
lection post 
or non-selec- 
tion post 

Age limit 
fo x direct 
recruits 

I 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 


Research 

General 

• 17 

G.C.S. Class 

Rs. 250-10- N.A. 

Preferably 

Assistant 

Education 

I 

II (Non- 

300-EB-15- 

below 3 

(Hindi) 

History 

I 

gazetted. 

450-25/2-500 

years. 


Politics 

, I 

Non-minis- 




Economics 

. I 

terial). 




Zoology . 

. I 





Geology . 

. I 





Mathematics 

. 2 





Botany 

■ 1 

■36 




Physics 

. I 





Chemistry 

. I 





Urdu 

I 





English 

. I 





Social Science 

. I 





Agriculture 

I 





Law 

. X 





Medicine . 

. I 





Civil Engg. 

. I 





Mech. Engg. 

* 1 . 





(The subjects are, how- 
ever, interchangeable 
according to require- 
ments.) 


Sic. 3(i)g THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST JO, 19S8/BHADRA 8, 1880 691 


OULE 


Educational and other 

Whether 

Period of 

Method of In case of 

IfaDPC 

Circum- 

qualifications required 

age and 

probation. 

recruit- 

recruit- 

exists 

stances in 


educa- 

if any 

ment 

ment 

what is 

which 


tional 


whether 

by pro- 

its com- 

U.P.S.C. 


qualifica- 


by direct 

motion/ 

position 

is to be 


tions pre- 


recruit- 

transfer. 


consulted 


scribed 


ment or 

grades 


in making 


for the 


by pro- 

from 


recruit- 


direct re- 


motion or 

which 


ment 


cruits will 


transfer 

promo- 




apply in 


& per- 

tion to be 




the case 


centage of 

made 




of promo- 


the va- 





tees 


cancies to 







be filled 







by various 






methods 




7 

8 

9 

10 

IT 

12 

13 


Esstntil, N.A. 

One year. Direct rec- N.A. 

N.A. 

For direc 


ruitraent. 


recruit- 

(i) Master’s or equiva- 



ment. 

lent Honours Degree 





in the relevant sub- 
ject excepting Law, 
Medicine & En- 
gineering in which 
case a Degree from 
a recognised Uni- 
versity. 

(ii) Adequate knowledge 
of Hindi as evidenced 
by a Degree in Hindi 
from a recognised 
University or Insti- 
tution or by Pub- 
lished works in Hindi. 


Qualifications relax- 
ablc at Commission’s 
discretion in case of 
candidates otherwise 
well-qualified. 

Desirable 

(i) Experience of termi- 
nological lexicographi- 
cal, literary, jour- 
nalistic and trans- 
lation work involving 
use of a modern 
Indian language. 

(ii) Working knowledge 
of at least one modern 
Indian language other 
than Hindi. 

Note: 

For the post of Research 
Assistant (Hindi) — 
Education, candidates 
with Master’s degree 
in Hindi, Sanskrit or 
Psychology with 
degree or diploma in 
Education of a recog- 
nised University will 
also be eligible. 


N.A. — Not applicable. 


[No. 14— 38/57 A2.]. 
M. C. MINOCHA, Under Secy. 



692 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 80, I958/BHADRA 8, 1880 [Part II 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING & SUPPLY 

New Delhi , the 20 th August 1958 ; 

G.S.R. 156. — The following draft of a further amendment to the Rules 
Regulating the Handling of Explosives In the Port of Bombay published with the 
late Department of Works, Mines and Power Notification No. P, 103, dated the 
11th March, 1947, which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of 
the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian Explosives Act, 1884 (4 of 1ES4). 
is published as required by section 18 of the said Act, for the information of all 
persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said draft 
will be taken into consideration on or after the 20th September, 1968. 

Any objection or suggestion, which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Draft Amendment 

In the said Rules, after Rule 14, the following Rule shall be added, namely; — 

“15. The Central Government may, on the recommendation of the Chief 
Inspector and in exceptional cases, exempt subject to such conditions 
as it may specify, any person from all or any of the provisions of 
these rules”, 

[No. S&P,II-Exp,2 (20) 57. ] 
M. N. KALE, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 21st August 1958 

G.S.R. 758.— The following draft of a further amendment to the Indus- 
trial Disputes (Central) Rules, 1957, which the Central Government proposes to 
make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 38 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), is published as required by sub-section (1), of the said 
section for the information of persons likely to be affected thereby; and notice 
is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after 
the 25th September 1958, 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Draft Amendment 

In rule 10B of the said rules after sub-rule (5) the following sub-rule shall 
be inserted, namely: — 

"(6) The Labour Court or Tribunal, as the case may be, shall as the 
examination of each witness proceeds, make a memorandum of the 
substance of what he deposes, and such memorandum shall be 
written and signed by the presiding officer: 

Provided that the Labour Court or Tribunal, as the case may be, may 
follow the procedure laid down in rule 6 of Order XVIII of the First 
Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, if it considers neces- 
sary so to do, in view of the nature of the particular industrial dis- 
pute pending before it. 

The National Tribunal shall. In all cases, follow the procedure laid down 
In rule 5 of the said Order XVIII,” 


[No. LRI. l(2)/68.]. 
A. L. HANDA, Under Secy. 




Sic. 3(i)j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 80, 19B8/BHADRA 8 , 1880 693 , 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 23 rd August 1958 

G.S.R. 757. — In the draft amendments to the Minimum Wages (Central) Rules, 
1950, published with the Notification of the Government of India, Ministry of Labour 
and Employment No. G.S.R. — 704, dated the 18th August 1958, at pages 333 — 335- 
of the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II — Section 3(1), dated the 18th. 
August 1998 — 

In new rule 23 substituted by amendment (2) — 

(1) In sub-rule (1), after the brackets arid words "(hereinafter referred to as ‘the 
rest day’)’’ insert the following: — 

"which shall ordinarily be Sunday, but the employer may fix any other day 
of the week as the rest day”; 

(li) after sub-rule (4), insert the following sub-rule: — 

“(5) The provisions of this rule shall apply to the employees in scheduled 
employments other than agricultural employment”; and 
(iii) renumber sub-rule (5) as sub-rule (6). 

[No. LWI(I)-3(19)/57.J 
P. N. SHARMA, Under Secy, 


PRINTED IN INDIA flV THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BV THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1958 




(b) the articles were In existence before the 13th day of April, 1950, as part of 
my/my predecessor’s own insignia in the status of a Ruler/ and were recognised 

by the Central Board of Revenue as heirloom jewellery in the case of 

, my predecessor; 

(c) the articles arc, to all intents and purposes, treated by me as my dynastic 
property to be used by me and my successor in status on ceremonial occasions or 
otherwise to be retained in my family; 

(d) the articles shall be kept permanently in India and shall not be removed 
outside India except for a purpose and a period approved by the Central Board 
of Revenue; 

(e) reasonable steps shall be taken for keeping the articles substantially in 
their original shape; 

(f) reasonable facilities shall he allowed to any officer of the Government 
authorised by tho Central Board of Revenue in that behalf to examine the articles 
as and when necessary; 

(g) I have read the Wealth-tax (Exemption of Heirloom Jewellery of Rulers) 
Rules, 1958, and I agree to abide by them. 


Yours faithfully, 


Place 

Date, 

Annexuhe A 

S. No. Description of the Approximate Approximate 

jewellery weight value 


[No. W.T.-l.] 
R. N. JAIN, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Customs and Central Excise 
New Delhi, the 23 rd August 1958 

G.S.R. 120. — The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern- 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the 
Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878) and section 37 of the Central Excises and Salt 
Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondi- 
cherry, is published as required by subjection (3) of the said section 43B for the 
Information of persons likely tQ be affected thereby, and notice is hereby given 
that tho said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 25th Septem- 
ber, 1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 



668 


THE GAZI, OF INDIA: A 


ADRA 1, 


[Part II 


. 23, 


DRAFT RULES 

1. Short title. — These rules may be, called the Customs and Central Excise 
Duties Drawback (Piperazine Syrup) Rules, 1958. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(a) “duty-paid materials” mean — 

(I) foreign materials imported on payment of customs duty, into India or 
the State of Pondicherry; and 

(il) materials manufactured in India or the State of Pondicherry and on 
which Central Excise duty has been paid; 

(b) "goods” means piperazine syrup manufactured in India or the State of 
Pondicherry and in the manufacture of which duty paid materials have been 
used; 

(c) “refund” means drawback of import duty and rebate of central excise 
duty, on the duty-paid materials. 

3. Goods in respect of which refund may be paid. — Subiect to the provisions 
cf the Acts and these rules, and subject also to such of the provisions of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944 as may be applicable in this behalf a refund shall be , 
allowed In respect of the duty paid materials used in the manufacture of the goods 
exported from India or the State of Pondicherry. 

4. Rate of refund. — (1) The refund admissible under these rules on the ship- 
ment of the goods shall be the average customs and excise duty paid on the duty- 
paid materials used In the manufacture of the goods, 

(2) Such rate of refund shall be determined by the Central Government 
(hereinafter in this sub-rule referred to as the Government) at such intervals as 
the Government may consider necessary on tbe basis of information furnished 
bv the manufacturer of the goods and verified by the Government, in respect of 
the customs and excise duty paid on the duty paid materials during such period 
as in the opinion of the Government is relevant for the purpose. 

5. Maimer of allowing refund.— Refund shall be allowed on the export of the 
goods from any port in India or the State of Pondicherry subject to the conditions, 
namely, that the shipper shall — 

(i) make a declaration on the relative shipping bill that a claim for refund 

is being made under these rules. 

(ii) state the description, quantity and such other particulars as are neces- 

sary for the determination of the rate and amount of refund; and 

(Hi) furnish the Customs Collector with a copy of the shipment invoice or 
any other document giving details of the description, quantity and 
value of the goods under shipment, 

0. Powers of Customs Collector. — For the purpose of these rules, the Customs 
Collector may require the shipper or the manufacturer of the goods to produce 
any books or accounts or other documents relating to the proportion and quantity 
of the duty-paid materials used In the manufacture of the goods and the duty 
paid thereon. 

7. Access to manufactory. — The manufacturer of the goods In respect of which 
a refund is claimed under these rules shall give access to every part of the manu- 
factory to any officer of the Central Government specially authorised in this 
behalf by the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief Customs Authority, to enable 
the officer so authorised to inspect the processes of manufacture and to verify by 
actual check or otherwise the statements made in support of the claim for refund. 

[No. 51/F.No,34/84/58.Cus-IV.] 
S. VENKATARAMAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

Coffee Control 1 

New Delhi, the 12th August 1958 

G.S.R. 721. — In pursuance of clause (i) of sub-section (2) of section 4 of the 
Coffee Act, 1942 (7 of 1942), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri K. 



Sfec. S<i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 23, 1058/BHADRA 1, 1880 669 


Srinlvasan, I. A. S., (Retired) as Chairman of the Coffee Board, Bangalore with 
effect from the 1st August, 1958 upto the 18th March 1959. 

[No 1(3) Plant (B)/681. 

A. J. KIDWAI, Deputy Secy. 


Tea Control 

New Delhi, the 13 th August 1958 

G.S.R. 722. — The following draft of an order which It Is proposed to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (3) and (5) of section 30 of 
the Tea Act, 1953 (29 of 1953), is published for the information of all persons 
likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the draft will be 
taken into consideration on or after the 23rd September, 1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


ORDER 

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) This order may be called the Tea 
Waste (Control) Order, 1968. 

(2) It shall come into force at once. 

2. Definitions. — In this order, unless the context otherwise requires,— 

(a) “Act” means the Tea Act, 1953 (29 of 1953); 

(b) “licence” means a licence granted under this order; 

(c) “licensee” means any person holding a licence; 

(d) “licensing authority” means the Chairman of the Tea Board or any 

person who may be. for the time being exercising the powers of the 
Chairman; 

(e) “offer for sale” includes a reference to an intimation by a person of a 

proposal by him for the sale of any tea waste made by the publica- 
tion of a price-list by exposing the tea waste for sale communicating 
the price by furnishing of a quotation, or otherwise, howsoever; 

(f) “tea waste” means tea sweepings, tea fluff, tea fibre, tea stalks or tea 

in any form other than tea defined in the Act; and 

(g) “Tea Board” means the Tea Board constituted under section 4 of the 

Act. 

3. Persons exporting, selling, purchasing, storing tea waste to obtain licences. — 
With effect from such date as may be fixed in this behalf, no person shall him- 
self or by any other person export, sell, offer for sale, buy or hold In stock any 
tea waste except under and in accordance with the terms of a licence granted 
to him under this order. 

4. Tea Waste to be denatured. — With effect from such date as may be fixed 
by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette in this behalf, 
no person shall export, sell, offer for sale, buy or hold in stock any tea waste 
which has not been denatured by the admixture of not less than five per cent 
slaked lime or such other denaturants as may be prescribed by the licensing 
authority In this behalf from time to time. 

6. Disposal of tea waste. — No person shall dispose of or agree to dispose of any 
tea waste except in the following manner, namely: — 

(a) by sale to any person holding a licence; 

(b) by export; 

(c) by utilizing it in the manufacture of caffeine; 

(d) by destruction by burning or by conversion as compost in accordance 

with any procedure, laid down under any excise law for the time 
being in force. 

6. Application for licence. — Every person desiring to obtain a licence shall 
make an application in duplicate to the licensing authority in Form A. 



$ 7 ° 


TDE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 23, 1958/MlADSA 1, 1880 [Fart II 


7. Grant and refusal of licences, — (1) The licensing authority may, for reasons 
to be recorded, refuse to grant a licence to any applicant and shall, as soon as 
possible, furnish him with a copy of the order so passed. 

(2) Where an application for licence is not refused under sub-clause (1), the 
licensing authority shall grant the applicant a licence in form B and every such 
licence shall be subject to the conditions annexed with that form. 

8. Period of validity of licence. — Every licence shall, unless previously can- 
celled, expire on the 31st December next following. 

9. Renewal of licences. — (1) The licensing authority may, on application made 
to it in duplicate, renew a licence. Every such application and renewal thereof 
shall be in form C. Every renewed licence shall be valid up to the 31st Decem- 
ber next following, 

(2) No application for renewal shall be refused unless the applicant has been 
given an opportunity of being heard and reasons for such refusal are recorded. 
The applicant shall as soon as possible be furnished with a copy of the order of 
refusal. 

10. Restriction on transfer of licences. — (1) No person shall transfer any 
licence granted to him under this order. 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-clause (1), a licensee may 
admit any other person or persons as a partner or partners in the business cover- 
ed by the licence and where he does so he shall got the licence amended accord- 
ingly as soon as possible. 

11. Power to cancel licences, — (1) The licensing authority may, after giving a 
licensee an opportunity of being heard, cancel his licence on any of the follow- 
ing grounds, namely: — 

(a) that the licence had been obtained by misrepresentation as to a mate- 

rial particular: or 

(b) that any of the provisions of this order or any of the conditions of the 

licence has been contravened; or 

(c) that the licensee or any person in his employ has been convicted of 

any offence of adulteration of tea under the Prevention of Food 

Adulteration Act, 1954 (37 of 1954). 

(2) Where a licence is cancelled under sub-clause (1), the licensee shall not 
be entitled to claim any refund from the licensing authority or the Central 
Government of any sum paid in respect of the licence. 

12. Disposal of stocks where licence is not renewed or is cancelled.— Any per- 
son whose application for renewal of his licence has been refused or whose 
licence has been cancelled under this order shall dispose of his stocks of tea 
waste in accordance with the provisions of clause 5 within such time as may 
be fixed in this behalf by the licensing authority. 


18. Appeal. — Any person aggrieved by an order — 

(a) refusing to grant or renew a licence, or 

(b) cancelling a licence, 

may within sixty days from the date of the order, appeal to the Central Govern- 
ment and the decision of the Central Government shall be Anal. 

14. Restriction on possession of stocks. — (1) No licensee shall at any time 
after the expiry of four months from the date specified in the notification under 
clause 3 have in his possession any quantity of tea waste exceeding the quantity 
fixed in respect of him by the licensing authority. 

(2) The licensing authority for the purpose of fixing any quantity of tea 
waste under sub-clause (1) shall have regard to the following factors, namely: — 

(i) tea waste sold or exported by the licensee or utilized by him in the 
manufacture of caffeine in the calendar year immediately preceding 
the date of the licence or, as the case may be, the date of renewal 
thereof; 



Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23, 1958/BHAdRA i. 1880 671 


(ii) Such other factors as the licensing authority may consider relevant in 
the circumstances of the case. 

IS. Inspection of stores and taking samples. — (1) Any officer of the, Tea Board 
duly authorised by the licensing authority may at any time inspect any place 
of storage of a licensee and take samples of tea waste and have them analysed 
by an analyst approved by the licensing authority for the purpose of ensuring 
that the tea waste has been denatured In accordance with clause 4. 

(2) Where any sample is taken under sub-clause (1), its cost calculated at the 
rate at which such tea waste is usually sold shall be paid to the person from 
whom it is taken. 

10. Maintenance of records and submission of returns etc. — (1) The Licensing 
authority may issue directions to any person holding a licence- 

la) to maintain such records of his purchases, sales, exports, contracts or 
other matters connected with his undertaking or business and in such 
form as may be specified in the direction, and to produce them for 
inspection by such authority; 

(b) to submit to such authority returns or statements in such form and 
containing such information relating to his undertaking or business 
and within such time as may be specified in the direction. 

(2) Any direction of the nature referred to in sub-clause (1) may be issued 
generally to all holders of licences or any class thereof. 

17. Power to search etc. — The licensing authority or any officer of the Tea 
Board specially authorised in writing by that authority in this behalf or an officer 
of the Central Excise Department not below the rank of Inspector may enter and 
inspect at any time any land, building, enclosed place, premises, vehicle, vessel, 
aircraft, conveyance or other plant or machinery upon or in which tea waste la 
processed, stored, sorted, manufactured, carried or sold or the authority or officers 
concerned have reason to believe that it is being processed, stored, sorted, manu- 
factured, carried or sold and seize any tea waste or product of the tea waste 
which appears to be processed, stored, sorted, manufactured, carried, or sold in 
contravention of this order: 

Provided that in the exercise of the power of entry, the authority or officer 
shall pay due regard to the social and religious customs of the occupant of such 
place or premises: 

Provided further that if any such place or premises is found locked up or 
unoccupied or unattended by or on behalf of the owner or occupier, the same 
may, in the presence of two witnesses, be broken open and entered upon for all 
or any of the aforesaid purposes. 

18. Checking of accounts etc. — The licensing authority or any officer of the 
Tea Board specially authorised in writing by that authority in this behalf or an 
officer of the Central Excise Department not below the rank of Inspector may 
check accounts or records of tea waste or any other records or check stocks of 
tea waste physicully whether for the purpose of testing the accuracy of any 
return submitted under this order or of informing itself or himself as to any 
particulars regarding which information is required for the purposes of this 
order. 

19. Fees. — The fee payable for the grant or renewal of a licence shall be twenty 
five rupees 

20. Service of orders and directions. — Any order or direction made or issued by 

the licensing authority may be served in the following manner, namely: 

(a) In the case of an order of a general nature or affecting a class of 

persons, by notification in the Official Gazette; 

(b) in the case of an order directed to a specified individual 

(i) by delivering or tendering it to that individual; or 

(ii) if it cannot be so delivered or tendered, by aflixing it on the outer 

door or some other conspicuous part of the promises in which that 
individual lives, and a written report thereof shall be prepared and 
witnessed by two persons living in the neighbourhood. 

1. Breach of conditions of licence to be deemed as contravention of this 

Order. — If any person holding a licence commits any breach of any of the condi- 
tions of licence, he shall be deemed to have contravened the provisions of this 



I'HF GAZfcTTte OF INDIA : AUGUST 2S, 1958/BHADRA 1, 1880 [Fart 11 


<$7i 


Form A 
(See clause 0) 


To 


The Licensing Authority, 

Application for licence. 

1. Name of applicant 

2. Address 

3. Purpose for which licence is required — 

(a) for purchase, sale, storage of tea waste as a dealer; 

(b) for export of tea waste; 

(c) for purchase or storage of tea waste for manufacture of caffeine. 

4. Quantities of tea waste purchased, sold, stored, exported or utilized for 
manufacture of caffeine during each of the preceding three calendar years. 

3, Quantity of tea waste held in stock on the date of application. 

0. Details of the place at which tea waste is proposed to be stored — 

(a) address; 

(b) whether the godown or place of storage will be kept under lock; 

(c) whether storage space would be utilized for storing tea waste only. 

7. Whether the applicant is engaged in buying and selling tea, whether loose 
or in packets. If the answer is in the affirmative, the address of the place Of 
storage of tea and of factory where sorting, grading, cleaning or blending is done 
should be stated. 

I hereby declare that if a licence is granted to me by the licensing authority 
for the above mentioned purpose in terms of clause of the Tea Waste 

(Control) Order, 1958, I shall abide by the terms and conditions of the licence. 

Signature of applicant. 


Date 


Form B 
(See clause 7) 
TEA BOARD 


Licence No. 

Date 

Licence 

Shri/Sarvashri, of is/are hereby authorise* 

to buy, sell, store, export tea waste In terms of the Tea Waste (Control) Ordei, 
1958, and the conditions of the licence. 

This licence shall remain in force from to both days 

inclusive unless previously cancelled and is not transferable. 

The place of storage is at 

Calcutta Chairman, Tea Board 

Licensing Authority. 

Date 

Conditions of licence 

1. The licensee shall produce his licence for inspection on demand by the 
licensing authority or by any officer of the Tea Board duly authorised by that 
authority. 

2, Within twenty four hours from the time of booking or despatch whichever 
is earlier of each consignment of tea waste by rail, road or steamer, every licensee 
ehall send intimation in writing to the local officer of the Central Excise Depart- 
ment, with a copy to the Tea Board, Calcutta, and a copy to the Collector of 



Central Excise having jurisdiction at the receiving end. The intimation shall 
contain the following particulars: — 

(a) quantity of toa waste consigned; 

(b) date of booking or despatch; 

(c) railway, road or steamer receipt number; 

(d) name, address and licence number of consignor; and 

(e) name, address and licence number of consignee. 

3. The consignor shall mark every package of tea waste with the label “Tea 
Waste” in bold letters and give the following particulars on each package: — 

(a) name, address and licence number of consignor; and 

(b) name, address and licence number of consignee. 

Form C 
(See clause 9) 

Application for renewal of licence. 

To 

The Licensing Authority, 

I/We hereby apply for renewal of licence No. dated 

2. The place where the tea waste will be stored . Full name and 

address of the applicant in block letters. 

Date 

Place Signature of the applicant. 

Certified that the licence No. granted on the to 

in terms of the Tea Waste (Control) Order, 1958, is hereby renewed until the 
31st December, 19 , unless previously cancelled before that date under 

the provisions of the Tea Waste (Control) Order, 1058. 

Date 

Renewal No. 


Licensing Authority. 
[No. 32 (8) Plant/54.1 
P. V. RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. 


(Department of Company Law Administration) 

New Delhi, the 19 th August 1958 

The Companies (Central Government’s) General Boles & Forms, 

1956. 

G.S.R. 723. — In exercise of Ifce power conferred by clauses (a) and (b) of sub- 
section (1) of section 642 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the Companies 
(Central Government’s) General Rules and Forms, 1956, namely: — 

In the said rules: — 

1. In Form 25, — 

(i) In items 3 and 4 — 

(at after clause (1), the following clause shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(ia) Particulars of shareholdings Number of shares held 

managing/whole-time director ... 

managing agent/secretaries and treasurers 

(b) after clause (vi), the following clause shall be Inserted, namely: — 

“(vii) whether the managing/ whole-time director suffers from any of the 
disqualifications mentioned In section 267 of the Companies Act, 
1956”; 



(ii) in items 3 to 7 and 9, note below item (4) and the foot-note (a), for the 
words “managing director”, wherever they occur, the following shall be substi- 
tuted, namely ; — 

“managing/whole-time director"; and 

(ill) in item 7, after the words “and treasurers.”, the following shall be in- 
serted, namely: — 

“(Attention is invited in this connection to sections 310, 317 and 332 of the 
Companies Act, 1956.)" 

2. (at In Form 28, the following item shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(3A) Capital structure on the Authorised: 

date of the application Subscribed: 

Paid-up : ” 

(b) in item (4), clause (c), at the end of sub-clause (I), the following shall be 
Inserted, namely: — 

“The following further particulars should be specified: — 

(a) Reasons for the above transfer. 

(b) Price at which the shares are being transferred. 

(c) Whether the proposed share transfer involves transfer of shares from 

residents to non-residents and vice versa. 

(dl Whether the consent of the Reserve Bank of India has been obtained, 
where necessary, to the transfer of Funds under the Foreign Ex- 
change Regulation Act, 1947.” 

3. In Form 29, after the words and figures "of the Companies Act, 1956.” the 
following shall be inserted, namely: — 

“and certify that I/we have not been disqualified to act as ,a director/ 
directors under section 267 or 274 of the Companies Act. 1956." 

4. In Forms 48, 49, 50 and 54, for the words and figures “Indian Companies 
Act. 1956,” the words and figures “Companies Act, 1956” shall be substituted. 

5. In Form 54, for the words “British India,” the word “India" shall be subs- 
tituted. 


[No. 5/I/58-P.R.]. 
K. M. HANBARHATTY, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Food) 

New Delhi, the 11 th August 1958 

G.S.R. 724. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (1) of rule 3 
of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appel) Rules. 1957, the 
President hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made in 
the Notification No, S.R.O. 2238 dated the 12th Aoril, 1957, of the Government of 
India, in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, (Department of Food) namely: — 
In the said Notification under head (a) Directorate of Sugar and Vanasvati 
sub -head (i) Central Cwil Posts, Class 1, after the words “Chief 
Director, the words “Officer on Special Duty shall be inserted. 

[No. F. 1-83/58-S.Admn.] 
S. D. UDHRAIN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 23 rd August 1958 

G.SR. 725. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
recruitment of persons to certain posts in the Ministry of Health, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Ministry of Health (Miscellaneous posts) 
Rules, 1958. 



le scale of pay fixed for the post of Staff Car Driver in the Ministry of 
Health, the method of recruitment, the qualifications, age limits and 
other matters relating to the post arc set out in Schedule I to these 
rules. 


3. The scale of pay fixed for the post of Junior Draftsman in the Ministry 
of Health, the method of recruitment, the qualifications, age limits, 
and other matters relating to the post are set out in Schedule II to- 
these rules. 


4. The scale of pay fixed for the post of Gestetner Operator in the Ministry 
of Health, the method of recruitment, the qualifications, age limits and 
other matters relating to the post are set out in Schedule III to these 
rules. 


Schedule I 

Post of Staff Car Driver in the Ministry of Health 

j. Name of Post , . Staff Car Driver. 

2. No. of posts . ■ One. 

3. Classification . . . G. C. S. Class III (N on-Gazettcd) Non-Ministeral. 

4. Scale of Pay . . Rs. 60—5/2 — 75. 

5. Whether selection post or non , 

selection post. 

6. Age limit for direct recruit!. . 25 — 35 years with usual relaxation for special categories as 

provided undar Govt, orders from time to time. 

7. Education and other qualification (j) Must posses working knowledge of English or Hindi 

required, and a qualifying license for driving carB with at least 

3 years’ experience. 

(m) Desirable : A pass in Middle School Standard. 

8. Whether age and educational Only age will not apply, 
qualifications for the direct 
recruits will apply in the 
case of promotces. 

9. Period of probation, if any. Six months. 

10. Method of Recruitment : By selection from among qualified Class IV employees 

whether by direct recruit- of the Ministry of Health, foiling which by direct mo- 
ment or by promotion. ruitment. 

11. In case of recruitment by From Class IV employees possessing the requisite quail- 

promotion, grades from which fications and experience, 
to be made. 

12. If a D. P. C. exists, what is its Deputy Secretary (Estt.), Under Secretary (Estt.) and 

Composition. Under Secretary (General). 

13. Circumstances in which UPSC None. 

is to be consulted in making 
recruitment. 

SCHEDULE II 

Post of Junior Draftsman in the Ministry of Health. 

1. Name af post . . . Junior Draftsman 

2 . No. of posts . . . One. 

3 . Classification . . . G. C. S. Class III (Non-gazettcd) Ministerial. 

4 Scale of pay . . Rs. 100—5—125 — 6 — 1J5— E.B.— 6— 185. 

5 Whether selection post or — 

non-selection post 

6. Age Limit for direct recruits . 18 — 25 years withjusual relaxation for a special categories 

as provided under Govt, orders from time to time, J 

7. Education and Other qualifies- Matriculation with training in Draftsmanship from ra- 

tions required, cognised^ Institute, or Matriculatit n with 3 years ex- 

perience in Architecture. 



■8. Whether age and educational 
qualifications for the 
direct recruits will apply 

in the case of promoted. 

9. Period of probation, if any. 

*0. Method of recruitment : 
whthcr by direct recruitment or 
by transfer, 

at. Incase of recruitment by trans- 
fer, grades from which to be 
made. 


Six months. 

Normally the post will be filled through Employment 
Exchange but in case no suitable persons are available 
the post should be filled by transfer of a suitable person 
from other Central Govt. Department. 

Draftsman Grade III (by transfer). 


12. If a D. P. C. exists, what is its Does not arise. 

composition. 

13. Circumstances in which UPSC None. 

is to be consulted in making 
recruitment. 


Schedule III 

Post of Gestetncr Operator in the Ministry of Health. 


I. 

Name of Post 

Senior Gestetncr Operator. 

2. 

No. of posts 

One. 

3- 

Classification 

Class III (Non-gazetted) Ministerial. 

4 - 

Scale of Pay 

Rs. 60 — 5/2-75. 

5 - 

Whether selection post or 
non-selcction post. 

Non-Selection post. 

<5. 

Age limit for direct recruits 

18 — 25 years with usual relaxation for special categoric* 
of persons under Government orders issued from time 
to time. 

7 - 

Education and other qualifica- 
tions required. 

(i) Departmental candidates — Nil. 

(it) Direct Recruits — Middle School Standard. 

S. 

Whether age and educational 
qualiflcatons for the direct 
recruits will apply in th* 
case of promotees. 

No. 

V- 

Period of probation if any 

Six months for direct recruits. 

so. 

Method of recruitment : 
whether by direct recruitment 
or by promotion. 

The post should ordinarily be filled by promotion from 
the post of daftry in order of seniority subject to 
proficiency of handling the Gestetncr Machines. 

ir. 

In case of recruitment of by 
promotion grades from which 
to be made. 

Prom the grade of dafry. 

12 . 

If a D, P. C. exists, what 
is its composition. 

Deputy Secretary (Estt.) Under Secretary (Estt.) and 
Branch Officer concerned with the Receipt and Issue 
Section, 

<3- 

Circumstances in which UPSC 
is to be consulted in making 
recruitment. 

None. 


[No. F. 24-4/ 58-Estt.J 
S, IFTIKHAR HUSAIN, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi , the 9th August 1958 

G.S.R. 726. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article SO# 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
recruitment of persons to the posts of Library Attendants (Junior Grade) in the 
General Central Service, Class IV In the Ministry of Education, namely: 

1. Short title: These rules may be called the Ministry of Education [Library 
Attendants (Junior Grade)] Files 1959. 



2. Classification etc: The number of posts, their classification, the scale of 

pay and the duties of the posts shall be as specified in items 1 to 5 
of the Schedule to these Rules. 

3. Method of recruitment: The method of recruitment to the posts, the age 

and other qualifications of persons to be recruited to them and other 
matters relating to these posts shall be as specified In items 6 to 12 
of the Schedule aforesaid. 

Schedule 

Details re^ardin^ pists of Library Attendants ffaiior Oradj) in the Ministry of 

Education 


i. Name of post . 

.2. Number of posts .... 

3, Its classification and whether gazetted or 
lion-gazetted. 

- 4. Scale of pay. . ... . 

5, Duties attached to the post 


» fii . Whither a selecion post or non-selection 
post. 

•7. Ag elintui for direcc recruits? 


'3. Educational and other qualifications required. 


9. Whether age and educational qualifications 
prescribed for direct recruitment will 
apply in case of recruitment by promotion/ 
transfer, 

10. Period of probation, if any. 

ti. Method] of recruitment i.e. whether by 
direct recruit n;nt, by pro notion or by 
transfer and percentages of vacancies to 
be filled by the Virions methods. 

12. Incase of vacancies filled by pro norm/ 
transfer, grades/sources fron which pr.o- 
motlo.i/transfers are to be made. 


Library Attendant ' ] a lio: Grade). 

Eight (8). 

Class IV Non-gazetted. 

Rs. 40—1 — 50 — .2 — 60. 

N on-technical processing of publications 
aid such o her duties anociated with 
the Library w irk a9 the Librarian may 
determine from time to time. 

N on-selection pints ' s 1 iiority-cu n -fitness) 

ficlow 25 years. Rdaxable in case o f 
•S.C., T.S. , displaced persons & other 
special categories in accordance with 
the general orders issued from time 
to time by Government of India. 

‘Etse.rial : — M ddle Standard, 

Desirable Experience of having worked 
in some Library. 

Yes, only the cdueationil q nliflcatlons. 


One year. 

By pro notion of Difcries. Direct re- 
cruit noat/cra lifer will be resorted to If 
no suitable d : out ni.ral cnlidites are 
available. 

Fron Diftries ii \1 fistry of Elueation 
w 10 .live put i.l- 1. least 3 years’ service. 


‘Qualifications relixible at the discretion of the Ministry of B 1 lerio.i in case of candida- 
tes o.nerwise well-q ifiified. Wien reLn.io 1 is allo.vei, the reason thereof should be 
clearly stamd in writing and the appointing authority should git the coicurrence of his im- 
mediate superior before miking such an exception”. 


[No. 14-23/ 58-A2.] 
M. C. MINOCHA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

ORDER 

New Delhi~2, the 19th August 1958 

G.S.R. 127. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 17 of the 
‘Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952j, the Central Government hereby exempt* 




(Cinematograph exhibition cf films in the premises of recognised educational insti- 
tution in the Union Territories of India from the operation of section 10 of the- 
»ald Act, subject to the following conditions namely: — 

1. Only films of a predominantly educational nature, certified as such by the- 

Central Board of Film Censors, or films approved as scientific films,, 
films intended for educational purposes, films dealing with news and 
current events or documentary films approved by the Film Advisory 
Board shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited, 

2. No admission fee, except to the extent required to cover expenses, shall 

be charged. 

3. No person other than students and staff of the Institutions, members of 

the Managing Committees of the Institutions and any guests specially' 
invited by the authorities or the Institutions and those enumerated 
under condition (9) below shall be admitted to the show. 

4. Only non-inflammable films and film strips shall be exhibited or permitted 

to be exhibited, 

5. The persons organising the exhibition of films shall be responsible for 

taking adequate safety measures against fire or any other mishap- 
like the collapse of gallaries, roof etc. of the place where such films- 
are exhibited. 

6. No advertisement films shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited. 

7. All Institutions which avail themselves of this exempt shall maintain a 

register of the films exhibited and comply with any other directions 
that may be Issued in this behalf by the Administrations concerned. 
The register shall be open to inspection by duly authorised officers of 
each Administration. 

8 . This exemption shall be valid for a period of one year with effect from- 

the date of Issue of this notification, unless revoked earlier. 

#. Employees of the Administration, members of the Central Board of Film 
Censors and its Advisory Panels and Regional and Assistant Regional 
Officers of the Board engaged in the discharge of their official duties- 
shall be admitted to the place where the exhibitions are held and to 

the film shows. 

[No. 6/8/55-FC.J- 
D. B. KHANNA, Under Secy„ 


rSlNTID IN INDIA BY THE GENERA!. MANAGER, GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, 
K1W DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OP PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1958 



