R KOSTERED No . D . 222 


The Eazette N 


of India 

14 . 5037 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


= 


K 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= = 


No. 19] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY,MAY 11 , 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 4th May 
1957 : 


Issue 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. 


212 | S .RO 


S.R . O . 1354 , dated the 24th 

April , 1957. 


Eelection Commis 
gion , Indja . 


List of contesting candidates 
for election to the Council of 
States by the elected Mem 
bers of the State of Orissa . 


S. R . O . 1355 , dated the 24th 

April, 1957 . 


Ditto . 


, 


List of contesting candidates for 

clection to the Council of 
States by the elected Mem 
bers of the Legislative As 
sembly of Orissa . 


| S . R . O . 1356 , dated the 25th 

April, 1957. 


Ditto . 


. 


List of contesting Candidates 

for election to the Council 
of States by the elected 
Members of the Legislative 
Assembly of Kerala , 


S .R . O . 1357, dated the 25th 

April, 1957. 


Ditto , 


| Amendment of notification No. 

464 / 56 (6 ), dated the 19th 
January , 1957 as subsequently 
amended by notification No. 
464 / 15 / 56 ( 1) , dąted the 19th 
February , 1957 . 


S . R . O . 1358 dated the 25th 

April, 1987 


Ditto , 


Amendment of notification No . 

464 / 10 / 56 , dated the 19th 
January 1957 as amended by 
notification No. 464 / 10 /56 ( 2 ) 

dated the 16th February , 1957 . 
1 Election Petition No. 5 of 1957 


Ditto . 


213 S. R .O . 1359 , dated the 23rd 

April 1957. 
2141 S .R . O . 1360 , clated the 27th 

April 1957 , 


Ministry of Finance | Amendment made in the noti 

fication No. F .4 (56 ) F . III155 , 

dated the 28th April, 1956 , 
Diltu . 

Amendment made in the noti 

fication No. 33 - Customg, 
dated the 22nd June 1935, 


215 | S . R . O . 1361 , dated the 27th 

April , 1957 


( 921 ) 


1922 THU GALETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1967 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[ PART II 


Issua 
No. 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Sublect 


216 


S . R . O . 1362 , dated the 27th 

April, 1957 


Ministry of Com - | Appointment of Secretary of the 
merce and Indus - Khadi and Village Industries 
tfy . 

Commission , 
Ministry of Lahour Amendments made in the Em 

ployces Provident Funds 
Scheme, 1952 , 


217 


S .R . O . 1363 , dated phe 261h 

April 1957 . 


218 ( S. R . O . 1364 , dated the 26th 

April, 1957 


Election Commis 
sion India . 


Notice of retirement by a con 
testing candidate for election 
to the House of the People 
from Mandi - 399 constitu 

ency . 
Declarations containing the 

names of the candidates elected 
to the Council of States 
to fill casual vacancies . 


218 - A 


S .R . O . 1364 - A , dated the 29th Minstry of Law 

April, 1957. 


219 | S . R . O . 1365 , dated the 26th | Election Commisson 
April , 1957. 

of India , 


List of contesting candidates 

for election to the house of the 
People from different consti 
tuencies . 


220 


S . R . O . 1415 , dated the 20th | Ministry of Com - 
April, 1957. 

merce and In 
dustry. 


Procedure to be followed in 

giving effect to applications 
made under sub - clause ( 1 ) 
of clausc 14B of the Cotton 

Control Order, 1955 . 
Amendment made in the notifi 

cation No . S . R . O . 1104 , dated 
the 28th April, 1956 . 


S . R . O . 1416 , dated the 30th | Election Commission 
April, 1956 . 

India . 


221 


S . R . O . 1417 , dated the 30th 

April, 1957. 


Ministry of Finance | Goods permitted to be removed 

from one warehouse to another 
without payment of duty 
specified therein , 


221 - A 


S . R . O . 1417 - A , dated the 30th 

April, 1957 . 


Ministry of Home Amendment made to the States 
Affairs. 

Reorganisation (Governors " 
Allowances and Privileges) 
Order, 1957 


221- B 


S . R . O . 1417 - B , dated the 30th 

April, 1957 . 


Election Commission List of contesting candidates for 
India , 

election to the Council of States 

in the three vacancies, 
Election Commission Amendment made in the notifi 
India . 

cation No . 434 / 10 / 56 ( 2 ), datcd 
the 7th January, 1957. 


222 


S. R .O . 1418 , dated the 28th 

April , 1957 . 


223 


S.R .O . 1419, dated the 29th 

April, 1957 


Ditto . 


Corrigendum to notification No. 

100 /2 / 27 / 57 , dated the 24th 
April , 1957 . 


224 


S. R . O . 1420 , dated the Ist | Ministry of Com - 
May , 1957. 

merce and Industry . | 


Fixation of the price of tea for 

the purpose of Item 5 in the 
Second Schedule to the Indian 
Tariff Act, 1934 . 


224 - A 


S . R . O . 1420 ,- A and 1420 - B , | Ministry of Law 

dated the Ist May , 1957 . 


Declarations containing the names 

of the candidates elected to the 
Council of States to fill casual 
Vacancics . 


Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTÈ OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 187 i South 


Issue 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Şubject 


* No. 


Election Commission , Election Perition No. 83 of 1957 . 

India . 


225 S . R . O . 1421 , dated the 29th 

April, 1957. 
226 S. R . O . 1422 , dated the 3rd 

1 May, 1957 . 


Ditio . 


List of contesting candidates for 

election to the Council of Stator 
by the members of Legislativo 
Assembly of Assam . 


227 


S . R . O . 1423 , dated llie 

May , 1957 . 


ist 


Ditto . 


Amendment made in the notifi 

cation No 464 / 10 / 56 , dated the 
19th January , 1957 as subsc 
quently amended by notifi . 
cations No . 464 / 10 / 56 (2 ), 
dated the 16th February , 1957 
and No. 464 / 10 / 56 ( 5) , dated 
the 25th April , 1957. 


228 


S . R . O . 1423 - A , dated the 3rd | Ministry of Com 

merce and 
Industry 


May , 1957 . 


Draft amend ment to the Deve 
lopment Councils ( Proco 
dural) Rulos , 1952 . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi, Indente should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes . 


PART II — Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1957 
S . R . O . 1428 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of Section 
13A of the Representation of the People Act, 1950, the Election Commission , in 
consultation with the Government of Madras, hereby nominates Kumari A . R . 
George , LAS , Additional Deputy Secretary to Government of Madras, Public 
Department, as the Chief Electoral Officer for that State with effect from the date 
she takes over charge, vice Shri M . A , Sheriff, I. A . S . 

[No. 154 / 7 /57 .) 
A . KRISHNASWAMY AIYANGAR , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi- 2, the 2nd May 1987 
S . R . O . 1429 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the All India Services Act , 1951 (61 of 1951) , the Central Government. 
after consultation with the Governments of the States concerned , hereby makes 
the following amendments in the All India Services (Provident Fund ) Rules . 
1955 , namely : 

In the said Rules , 

1. in clause ( a ) of sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 14 , after the words by the Subscriber 
to the Fund the following shall be inserted, namely : -- 
" and in default of such repayment, it shall be ordered by the Government 

to be recovered from his emoluments either in lump sum or in such 


424 THU GALITE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21 , 1879 


[ PART II 


number of monthly instalments, as may be determined by the 

Government: " 
2 . in sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 16 , after the words 

in one instalment , the following shall be inserted namely : 
" and in default of such repayment, it shall be ordered by the Government 

to be recovered from his emoluments either in a lump sum or in 
such number of monthly instalments, as may be determined by the 
Government;." 

[No. 13 / 38 / 56 -AIS ( III) . ] 


S . R . O . 1430. - In pursuance of rule 11 of the Indian Administrative Service 
( Pay ) Rules , 1954 , the Central Government hereby makes the following amend 
ment in Schedule III appended to the said Rules, namely : 
In the Schedule , under Head " C _ Posts carrying pay above the time scale 

or special pay in addition to pay in the time scale under the Central 
Government when held by members of the Service" for the 
figures " 250 " in the fourth column Special pay against " Transport" 
in the first column, the figures " 300 " shall be substituted and shall* 
be deemed to have been substituted with effect from the 1st Septem 
ber, 1956. 

[No. 13 / 19 /57 -AIS ( III ) .] 
P . PRABHAKAR RAO , Deputy Secy . 


New Delhi, the 7th May , 1957 
S . R . O . 1431. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the fourth paragraph of 
section 1 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby extends sections 64 , 107 and 123 of the said Act to all the areas in 
the Union territory of Delhi to which these sections have not already been 
extended by the notification of the Government of India in the late Home Depart 
ment No . 189 / 38 - III dated the 30th May, 1939 . 

[No. F . 7 / 2 / 67 / J. II. ) 
M . P . RODRIGUES , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 


New Delhi - 3, the 25th April 1957 
S . R . O . 1432 . - In purguance of sub - sections ( 3 ) and ( 5 ) of Section 11 of the 
Port Haj Committees Act, 1932 (XX of 1932 ) , the elections, at the meeting of the 
Port Haj Committee held on the 22nd March , 1957, Of Shri M . A . Golandaz, as 

Chairman , and Shri M . A . Latit and Shri F . K . Azami, as Vice - Chairmen of the 
• Port Haj Committee , Bombay for the year 1957 - 58 , are hereby approved and in 
notified . 

[ No. 239 -WANA / 56 . ) 
ILLEGIBLE , Under Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


-- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 


New Delhi, the 3rd May , 1957 


S .R . O . 1433. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act , 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) the Central Government, on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions ot section 


SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 925 


24 of the said Act shall not apply to any banking company for a further period 
of one year from the 9th June 1957 in so far as provisions - - 
( a ) require the inclusion of borrowings by the banking company from the 

State Bank of India and the State Bank of Hyderabad in computing 
the time and dema:ac liabilities in India of the banking company ; 

and 
( b ) preclude the maintenance by the banking company of the amount 

specified in that section in the form of approved securities which are 
lodged with another institution for an advance or other credit ar 
rangement, such securities being valued at a price not exceeding 
the current market price less the extent to which they have been 
drawn against or credit arrangements in regard to them have been 
availed of. 

[No. 4 (56 ) - F .1. /57. 1 


New Delhi, the 6th May, 1957 
S .R . O . 1434 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) the Central Government, on the recommendation 
of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions of section 29 of 
the said Act shall not, for the calendar year 1956 only , apply to the Jammu and 
Kashmir . Bank Lid ., in so far as they relate to the closing of annual accounts on 
the last working day of the said calendar year provided that the said banking 
company prepares its balance sheet and profit and logs account for the purposes 
of the said section for the period between the 1st July , 1956 and the 31st Decem 
ber , 1956 , 

[No. 4 ( 77 ) - F .1./ 57.] 
B . SHUKLA , Dy. Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 
In the " Schedule of Excess Expenditure of the Government of Bombay for 
1953 -54” , annexed to the Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs ) 
Notification No . S . R . O , 888, dated the 23rd March , 1957, published at pages 500 - 601 
of Part II — Section 3 of the Gazette of India , dated the 23rd March 1957 - - Tenumber 
the column headed " Excess " which is numbered as 4 , 5 and 6 as column 4 . 


( Department of Company Law Administration ) 

New Delhi, the 7th May 1957 
S . R . O . 1435.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by şub -section ( 1 ) of section 
641 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956 ), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following alterations in Part II of Schedule y to the said Act, namely : 
In the said Part, 
1 . ( 1) for the heading " 5 List of Past and Present Members " , the headling 

und the mark " 5 List of Past and Present Members and Debenture 

Iloiders @ " shall be substituted ; 
(ii) at the end of the form under the same heading, the following mark and 
; the note shall be inserted , namely :-- 
" In the case of a company which has issued debentures , particulars 

about its debenture holders , past and present, should also be 
furnished under this item , adapting the form suitably for the pur 

pose " ; 
2 . The heading " CERTIFICATES AND OTHER DOCUMENTS ACCOM 

PANYING ANNUAL RETURN " shull be omitten . 
3 . The heading in italics " Certificd copies of Accounts " and the paragraplı " 
thercunder shall be omitted . 

[ No. F .8 / 159 / 56-PR.] 
R . P . AIYANGAR , Jt. Secy . 


926 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[ PART 11 


(Department of Revenue ) 

DANGEROUS DRUGS 
New Delhi, the 30th April 1957 


S . R . O . 1436. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
ut of the Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930 ( 2 of 1930 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the Central Opium Rules , 1934, the 
same having been previously published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 36 
of the said Act, namely : 

For the second proviso to rule 4 of the said Rules, the following proviso shall 
be substituted , namely : 

" Provided further that any person who cultivates poppy without previously 
obtaining a licence may be granted a licence by the licence granting authority with 
retrospective effect, on payment forthwith of penalty at the rate Axed from time 
to time by the State Government, in addition to the duty due . Such penalty shall 
not be refunded. The Patwari shall maintain a record of poppy cultivation in a 
register in the annexed form ." 

[No. 8 .) 


CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1957 
S . R . O . 1437, - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 1) of rule 8 , of 
the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby exempts Cotton Fabrics proved to 
the satisfaction of the Collector of Central Excise to be intended for use in the 
manufacture of cotton absorbent lint, from the duty leviable thereon under the 
Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ( I of 1944 ) : 

Provided that no exemption shall be admissible unless the procedure set out in 
Chapter X of the said rules is followed in respect of such fabrics . 

[No. 29 / 57.) 
S . R . O , 1438 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 or 
the Central Excise Rules , 1944, as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby exempts spindle tape from the excise 
duty leviable thereon under the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ( I of 1944 ) . 

[No. 30 / 57. ] 
B . D . DESHMUKH , Dy. Secy . 


(Dopartment of Revenge ) 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 4th May , 1987, 
S. R . O . 1439 . The following draft of certain ruleg which the Central Govern 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) 
of section 43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ) , as in force in India 
and as applied to the State of Pondicherry , is published as required by the said 
sub - section for the information of persons likely to be affected thereby ; and 
notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or 
after 4th June 1957. Any objection or suggestion which may be received from 
any person with respect to the said draft before the date so specifled will be consi 
dered by the Central Government. 


Draft Rules 


1. Short title . These rules may be called the Customs Duties Drawback 
( Tele - communication Equipments ) Rules, 1957. 
2 . Definitions -- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires -- 

(a ) the Act means the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ) ; 


SEC , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 11 , 1957 /VAISAKHÁ 21, 10 . 

992 : 


(c ) 


(b ) imported materials means duty - paid materials imported in India or 

the State of Pondicherry by a manufacturer registered under rule 4 

of these rules ; 
tele - communication equipment includes all types of telephone instru 
ments ( including protective devices ) , equipment used in Telephone 
Exchanges , railway control system , carrier telephone system , tele 
phone repeaters and trunsmission measuring instruments , which 
have been manufactured or assembled in India or the State of 
Pondicherry by a registered manufacturer , and in the manufacture 

of which imported materials have been used ; 
( d ) half year means a period of six months commencing with the first 

day of January , or the first day of July ; and 
( e ) registered manufacturer means & manufacturer or assembler of 

telecommunication equipment registered under rule 4 . 
3 . Goods in respect of which drawback may be allowed . Subject to the 
provisions of the Act and these rules , a drawback , shall be allowed in respect of 
any or all the imported material used in a telecommunication equipment (here 
in - after referred to as goods ) , manufactured or assembled in India or the State 
of Pondicherry by a registered manufacturer and exported therefrom ; or shipped 
as stores, on board a ship proceeding to a foreign port . 

Provided that the goods are packed by the registered manufacturer in tamper 
proof containers bearing on their outside, the description of the goods, the name 
of the manufacturer , the brand or code and such other particulars as the Chief 
Customs Oncer or the Customs Collector may from time to time specify in this 
behall. 

4 . Registration of manufacturers. - ( 1 ) A drawback under those rules shal] 
be admissible in respect of only such goods as have been manufactured or assem 
bled by a person who has been registered under , and for the purposes of , these 
rules by a Chief Customs Officer authorised in this behalt by the Chief Customs 
Authority and hereinafter referred to as the authorised Chief Customs Officer. 
( 2 ) An application for registration shall be made by a manufacturer or 

assembler of the goods to the authorised Chief Customs Officer . 
( 3 ) Such application shall describe the specific brands or varieties of the 
goods in respect of which registration is desired , and shall , in respect of each 
such brand or variety furnish , 
( a ) the description and quantity of different imported materials used in 

the manufacture or assembly of each variety , brand or patent of 

good in such convenient number as the Customs Collector thinks fit, 
( b ) the average amount of customs duty , based on the values and the 

rates of duty in force during the preceding year , paid on the imported 

material referred to in the foregoing sub - clause . 
( 4 ) The authorised Chief Customs Officer may, if he is satisfied that the 
requirements of these rules have been fulfilled , register the applicant as a regis 
tered manufacturer of the goods . 

( 5 ) Subsequent to such registration , the registercd manufacturer shall not 
alter the composition or formula of any brand or variety of the goods, nor the 
quantity of different imported materials used in their manufacture , without the 
prior approval of the authorised Chief Customs Officer . 

( 6 ) Any registered manufacturer contravening the provision of the last 
preceding sub - rule shall render himself liable to have his registration cancelled , 
without prejudice to any other penalty to which he may be subject under the 
Act and these rules. 

5 . Rate of drawback . - ( 1) Where the Customs Collector is satisfied that the 
claim for drawback is established under these rules, such drawback shall be paid 
at the rate specified hereunder. 

( 2 ) The rate of drawback of duty admissible under these rules on the shipment 
of goods shall be seven eights of the average amount of customs duty paid on the 
imported materials used in the manufacture or assembly of the goods. 

( 3 ) Such rate shall be determined every half year on the basis of statements 
furnished by the registered manutacturer and verified by the authorised Chief 


. 


1 E GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1987 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[ Part II 


Customs Oncer , of the average value of imported materials used in the manulac 
ture or assembly of the goods and the duty paid thereon , such average being 
calculated on the basis of his imports during the preceding one year or such 
longer period as the authorised Chief Customs Omlcer may deem necessary . 


( 4 ) Such rate of drawback shall be in force only for the half year in which 
it has been determined and shall apply to all shipments made during half year 
from any port in India or the State of Pondicherry . 


6 . Manner of allowing drawback ( 1 ) A drawback shall be allowed on the 
shipment of the goods from any port in India or the State of Pondicherry subject 
to the following conditions, namely ; 


( a ) the shipper of the goods shall make a declaration on the relative 

shipping bill that a claim for the drawback under section 43 - B of 
the Act, is being made; 


( b ) shall attach to the relative shipping bill a certificate from the registered 

manufacturer of the goods to the effect that the unit or units , or the 
quantity , of different imported materials used in the manufacture or 
assembly of each type or brand of the goods have not been altered 
subequent to the registration except under , and in accordance with , 
the provisions of sub - rule ( 5 ) of rule 4 ; 


( c ) the shipper shall, in the shipping bill, furnish , in addition to the parti 

culars required under section 29 of the Act such additional particularg 
as may, in the opinion of the Customs Collector , be necessary for the 
purposes of these rules, and in particular, such additional particulars 
in respect of the following matters as the Customs Collector may 

require, namely ; - - , 
(1) the description of the goods; 
( ii ) the name of the registered manufacturer , his registration number 

and the name of the officer by whom he has been registered ; 


( lii ) the particulars of any brand or trade mark attached to the goods; 

and 


(lv ) weight, value, patent number and such other specifications of the 

components of every unit of the goods; 


( d ) the shipper shall, at the time of shipment or subsequently at the time ot 

examination of the claim for the drawback , as the Customs Collector 
may decide, furnish 


( i) a statement of the description , quantity and value of the different 

imported materials , imported in the year preceding the half year 
in which shipment is allowed ; 


( i ) a statement of the description and quantity of the different imported 

materials used in the manufacture of tele - communication equip 
ment of each type or brand of the goods tendered for export 
under claim for drawback ; and 


( iii ) a statement of the average value and the average duty paid on the 

imported materials used in every telecommunication equipment 
of each type or brand of the goods tendered for shipment such 
averages being calculated on the basis of the value and duty paid 
on identical imported materials, imported in the year preceding 
the quarter in which the shipment is made . 


( 2 ) No drawback shall be allowed on the shipment of any type or brand of 
the goods in respect of which the composition has been altered contrary to the 
undertaking furnished under sub - rule ( 5 ) of rule 4 . 


SEC. 37. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 9293 


7 . Powers of Customs Collector. -- For the purposes of enforcing these rules , 
the authorised Chief Customs Officer or the Customs Collector may require 


( a ) a registered manufacturer to produce any books of account or other 

document of whatever nature relating to the use of imported mate 
rials in the manufacture or assembly of the goods, and 


( b ) require the production of such certificate , document or other evidence 

in respect of each claim for the drawback as may , in his opinion , . 
be necessary . 


. 8 . Access to manufactory . A registered manufacturer of the goods in respect 
of which a drawback is claimed shall give access to every part of his manufac 
tory or assembly plant to an officer of the Central Government specially authorised 
in this behalf by the authorised Chief Customs Officer to enable him to inspect 
the processes of manufacture or production and to verify by actual check or 
otherwise the statements made in support of the claim for drawback . 


[No. 57.} 


S . K . BHATTACHARJEE , Dy. Secy . . 


(Department of Revenue) 


STAMPS 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 30th April 1957 


S . R . O . 1440 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section , 
( 1 ) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act , 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby remits the duty with which the bond executed on the 6th February , 
1957, by the High Commission for Australia in India in connection with the . 
release of a consignment of tuberculin vaccine imported from Australia , is. 
chargeable under the said Act . 


[No. 13. ] 


S . R . O . 1441. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central 
Government hereby remits the duty with which the lease deed , dated the 15th 
February , 1957, executed by the Embassy of the Czechoslovak Republic in India , 
in respect of the premises No. 22 / 39, Diplomatic Enclave, New Delhi, is chargeable . 
under the said Act . 


[No. 14 .] 


. M . PANCHAPPA , Under Secy . , 


ERRATUM 


" At page 602 of the Gazette of India Part II - Section 3 , dated the 23rd March , 
1957, in S . R . O . 892 in Ine 2 , for Medical tead Medicinal " . 


930 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 / VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[ PART II 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME TAX 

New Delhi, the 24th April 1957 
S . R . O . 1442 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (1 ) of section 
59 of the lodian Income- tax Act , 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) , the Central Board or Revenue 
hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the Indian 
Income tax Rules , 1922 , the same having been published as required by sub - section 
( 4 ) of the said section . 
This amendment shall come into force on 1st day of June,, 1957. 

Amendment 
In the said rules— for rule 19 and the Forms appended thereto , the following, 
shall be substituted , namely : 

Rule 19 . - The return of total income and total world income required under 
fub -section ( 1 ) or sub - section ( 2 ) or sub - section (2A ) of section 22 shall be : 
( 1) in the case of persons, not being a company , whid derive income from 

any sources , which include business , profession , or vocation , in Form 

A annexed to this Rule ; 
( ii ) in the case of persons not being a company who derive income from 

sources other thar business, profession or vocation , (not being a 
share as a partner in a Arm or al a member of an assodation : 

persons) , in Form B annexed to this Rule ; and 
( ill) in the case of a company in Form Cannexed to this Rule , and shall 

in each case be verifed in the mapner indicated in the appropriate 
form . 

FORM A 
Form of return of total income and total world income under sub - section ( I ) OT 54b -section ( 2 ) or 

sub - section (2A ) of Section 22 of the Indian Incomc- tax Act , 1922 for persons who der ive 
income from sources , including BUSINESS ; PROFESSION UT VOCATION . 


Income- tax year 19 . . . . . . 19 . . . . . . 
Nome. 
Status (Whether individual, H . U . F . etc.) . . . 
Address : (Office ) , 

( Residence) . . . 


: 


PART I 
Statement of total income and total world income during tho previous year ended . . . . . . . . . . . . 


REMARKS 
Soctlon A . If In 
come ATORO in 2 
Part B State or a 
merged territory , 
mention that State 
or territory and 

if it was received 
Amount Tax already in or remitted 
of Income. charged or to another State that 
Profits & deducted at other State , . 
Gains Source 

Section B . State 
if the income arosc 
in a foreign country ; 
mcntioning the name 
of that country . 


Source of income 


Source of income 


I 


SECTION A - Incomo which accrued or arose 

Or was received in the first instance or is 
deemed to have accrued or arisen or been re 
celved in the TAXABLE TERRITORIES 
in the previous year . 


Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1967 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 931 


T 


I 


3 


I . SALARIES, 
The total amount as detailed in Part VIA 
of the Return . 
Plcase attach detailed statement of monthly 
salary and tax deducted therefrom , 


2 . INTEREST ON SECURITIES. 

Interest from which tax has been deducted . 
Interest which is tax free. 


3 . PROPERTY . 


Total amount as detailed in Part VI of 

the Return . 


4 . BUSINESS, PROFESSION OR VO 

CATION , 


(a ) Profits & gains detailed in Part IV 

of this Return . 
(6) Share of profits in a Registered firm . 


( c ) Share of profits in an unregistered 

firm or Association of persons . 


5. OTHER SOURCES . 


Dividends from companies (gross am 

ount), interest on Mortgages, Loans , 
fixed deposits , Current a /cs . etc . 


Ground Rents . 


Sourdes other than those mentioned above 

(give details). 


6 . CAPITAL GAINS . 
Capital Gains as detailed in Part VII. 


Total of Section A . 


SECTION B . - Income which accrued or arose 
OUTSIDE THE TAXABLE TERRI 
TORIES in the previous year . 
(a ) NON -RESIDENTS should show full 

income ( except foreign capital gains) 
in this section as forming part of their 
TOTAL WORLD INCOME . . 


(b ) persone ORDINARILY RESIDENT 

in the taxable territories should show 
their income after deducting upto a max 
mum of Rs. 4 , 500 out of income not 
remitted to the taxable territories ( if 
the amount deducted is less than 
Rs. 4 , 500 it should be specified . ) 


932 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1967 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[PART II 


U PR 


= 


= - 


- - - - 


I 


( c ) Persons RESIDENT BUT NOT OR 

DINARILY RESIDENT should show 
only so much of the income 


(1) as arises from a business controlled 

in India or a Profession or Vocation 
set up in India , subject to the statu 
tory deduction of upto Rs. 4 ,500 /- as 
above , or 


(it) as is actually received in or remitted 
: to the taxable territories out of any 

other income. 


Please state for each item the heading 

of the income as in Section A . ] 


Total of Section B . 


SECTION C . - NOT APPLICABLE IN THE 
CASE OF NON -RESIDENTS . 


REMITTANCES TO THE TAXABLE 

TERRITORIES out of Income which 
accrued or arose prior to the previous year 
and after the 3180 day of March 1933 or in 
the case of Capital Gains which accrued or 
arose after the 31st March , 1946 and before 
the 1st April, 1948 . (If the remittance is 
out of Capital Gains chargeable to tax plcasc 
state this specifically ). 


( a ) Out of income which accrued or arose 

in the State of Jammu & Kashmir and 


(i) was not taxed , 
(ii) was included in the total income but 

not actually charged to tax , 
(iii) was included in the total income 

and also charged to tax in the appro 
priate year , 


[ Item (ii ) is to be mentioned only 
but not to be added in the total in 

come. ] 
(6 ) Out of income which accrued or arose 
in a Part B State or merged territory 
or an erstwhile Indian State , and 


( i) was not taxed , 


(ii) was included in the total income but 

not actually charged to tux , 


(iii ) was included in the total inconic 

and also charged to tax but at a lower 
rate , 


(iv ) was included in the total income 

and also charged to tax at full rate 
in the appropriate year . 


Sec. 3 ] | THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MA1 11, 1951/ VAL. Arm ,na Zł, typing 


I 


Itans (it) and (iv ) are to be men 
tioned only but not to be added in 
The total income. ) 


(c ) Out of income which accrued or aruse 

in Chandranagore , and 
(2) was not taxed , 


(it) was included in the total income 

and also charged to tax at full rate 
in the appropriate year, 
[ Item (ii ) is to be mentioned only 
hut not to be added in the total in 
con 


( d ) Out of income which accrued or 

in a foreign country , and 


rose 


(1) was not charged to tax on account of 

the deduction of upto Rs. 4 , 500 or 
otherwise . 


( 12 ) was charged to tax . 

Item ( it) is to be mentioned only but 
is not to be added in the total income. ] 


Total of Section C . 


- 


Total of Sections A , B and C . 


- - 


Sources of Income 


Particulars of items 


Amount 
Rs. 


SECTION D . - IN THIS SECTION SHOULD 
BE SHOWN ANY INCOME, PROFITS OR 
GAINS WHICH ARE NOT INCLUDED IN 
SECTIONS A , B AND C BUT WHICH THE 
ASSESSEE CLAIMS TO BE NOT TAXABLE 
FOR ANY REASON SUCH AS 


that the reccipt is of a casual nature not arising 
from any business , profession, vocation or occu 
pation ; or 
that it is exempt under any other provision of the 
Indian Incor . c - tax Act ; or 


that it is not accounted for in the books of account 
due to non -adjustment of account; or for any 
other reason . 


Total of Section D . 


934 THE GAZÉTTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957/ VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[ PART II 


PART II 


Statement of sums included in total income in respect of which income- tax 

and /or Super - tax is not payablo 


1. Earned income allowance under Section 15A 


2. Sumsdeducted from salary payable by the Government and to which the first 

proviso to sub - section ( 1) of section 7 of the Act applics . 


3 . Sums paid to effect an insurance on the life of the assessee or on the life of his 
wife , or her husband or in respect of a contract for a deferred annuity ; or, in 
the case of a Hindu Undivided Family, to effect an insurance on the life of 
any male member or his wife. ( The original receipt or Certificate from 
the Insurance Company must be attached ). 


4 . Contributions to (a ) any provident fund to which the Provident Funds Act, 

1925 , applies (6 ) 8 recognised provident fund or ( c) a provident fund established 
under the Employees Provident Fund Act , 1952 , or (d ) an approved super 
annuation fund and (c ) interest on contributions to a recognised provident 
fund and accumulations thereof which is exempt from income-tax , 


5 . Share in the income of an unregistered firm or an association of persons where 

the tax has already been paid or is payable on the income by the firm or 
association ( give details ). 


6 . Interest on tax free securities . 
7. Income from new Industrial undertakings exempt under Section 15- C , 


8 . Donations to charitable institutions and Funds. Exempt under section 15B . 


9 . Other items, if any 


Total 


PART III 
Particulars required under Sub-section (5) of Section 22 of the Income tax Act, 1922 
(a ) To be completed in the case of all persons engaged in a brusiness, profession or vocation . In the 

case of a firm this section should be completed on the firm s return and not on the individual partner s 

tuturn . 
Name in which the business , profession or vocation 

carried on , or in the case of a firm the firm s name 


Principal place of the tusiness , 

Vocation . 


profession 


or 


Location and style of each branch , 


SEC. 3] " THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1967 /VAISAKHA 21, 1819 05 


- 


- 


- 


- 


(b ) To be completed in the case of firms only 


- 


- 


- 


G 


- 


Name of each partner 


Residential 

Address 


Extent of share including : 
interest on a capital, salary 
commission of other 
remuneration if any, 
(Give details ). 


AN 


(c ) To be completed in case where the assessed is a partner in a firm or firms. 


Nameand address of the firm 


Name of cach 

Partner 
including the Address of each 
499c5see 

partner 


Share of cach partner 
including interest on 
capital, Salary , com 
mission or other 
remuneration , if any, 

(Give details) 


PART IIIA 
Particulars to be filled up in the case of Hindu Undivided Families only. 
Name of family . . . . . . . 
Address . . . . . 


Serial Name of members of the family at the Relationship 
No . end of the previous year who were 

entitled to claim partition 


Age at the end Remarks 

of the pre 
vious year 


- 


- 


. * 


s 


PART IV 
Particulars of income from Business, Profession or Vocation 
(1 ) In the case of a firm this part is to be completed in the firm s Return and not in the partners 
individual returns . 


( 2 ) If the accounts are kept on the mercantile accountancy or book profit system a copy of the 
manufacturing accounts or Trading Accounts , the Profit and Loss Accounts and Balance Sheet 
or trial balancos must be attached to this Return . If the accounts are kept on any other system 
the name or description of the system is to be stated and a copy of any statement which corres 
ponds to the Profit and Lobs Account and Balance Sheet in the mercantile accountancy system 
must be attached to this Return . If the accounts are audited , a statement of audited accounts should 
accompany the return but if the accounts are not audited , a statement showing how profits have 
been computed from the books of account maintained for the business should accompany the 
rcturn . 


- 436 


1 .10 GAULTIE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


FPART II 


- 


T 


PROFIT OR LOS AS PER 
PROFIT AND Loss 
ACCOUNT (OR STATEMENT 
CORRESPONDING TO THE 
PROFIT AND Loss 
ACCOUNT) FOR THE 
YEAR ENDED 19 . 
Rs. 


Rg. 


Add ( deduct if the above figure is a loss) 

Any profits or gains not included in arriving at the above figure 
of profit 


. 


. 


. 


Reserve for bad Debts . . . . . 
Sumscarried to Reserve for provident or other funds 


Interest credited to reserves or other funds . 


. 


. 


Expenditure of the nature of charity or presente , 
Expenditure of the nature of capital . . 


Income-tax or Super- tax 


Drawings of proprietor or partners . . 
Salaries and commission paid or credited to the proprietor or 

partners 


Interest allowed to proprietor or partners on capital or loan accounts . 


Rental value of the property owned and occupied 


. 


. 


. 


Cost of additions to or alterations, extensions or improvements to any 

of the assets of the business, perofession or vocation , . . 


Losses sustained in former years and charged in arriving at the 

figure of profit (or logs ) shown above . . . . . 


Depreciation of any of the assets of the business, profession , vocation 

or development rebate in respect of any of the assets of the 
business 


Private or personal expenses . . 

. 

. . 
Any other excnditure not incurred wholly and exclusively for the 

purpose of the business profession or vocation (Give details) . 


Any other expenditure which is not allowable under the provisions 

of Section 10 of the Income-tax Act, 1922 (Give details) . . 


Deduci - 
. Any Profit or gain , capital sums or other items credited in arriving 

at the above figure of profit which are not taxable or upon which 
tax has already been paid (Give details) . 


Interest on security tax frec 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


Depreciation allowable as shown in Part V of this Return 


Development rebate allowable as shown in Part V of this Return 


Scientific Research Expenditure (If not charged in arriving at the 

above figure of profit ). 
(1) Any expenditure ( nor in the nature of capital expenditure ) 

laid out or expended on scientific research related 
to the business — (Give details) . . . . . 


DEC . 31 11. 


UM . . I1 WE LULA . : . ne 11, Ivir 


, 


. . 


Rs. 


Re. 


(ii) Any sum paid to an approved scientific research association 

or an approved university , college or other institution for 
such scientific research , for rescarch in social science 
or for statistical research related to the class of the busincas 
carried on (Give details ). 


(111 ) Any expenditure of a capital nature on scientific research 

related to the business admissible under Section 10 ( 2 ) (xiv ) 
of the Act - (Give details ). . . . . . . 


Any other allowable expense which has not been charged in arriv 

ing at the above figure of profit — (Give details ) 
Net Profit (or losa ) Carried to Part I of the Return . . 


N . B . - The above particulars should be given for cach separate and distinct business, pro 

fession or vocation . 


PART V 

Depreciation 
Statement of particulars prescribed under praiso (a ) of Section 1012) (21) of the Income-lax 1ct , 1922, and of 

the . 47Wunt of depreciation allozhle 


Total 


Depreciation claimed 
Date from If a Plant of machi 
which the ! Dery has been sold 

Additional 
+ Capital Additions, or discarded during Amount ! 

N1, of days 

under cla - Extra 
* Written expendi- etc. , refer - the year, show in this on which Prescribed . . . . . . . . . . Initial NI- use ivia ) shift 
Description down va - ture dur- | red to in 1 column the * written deprecia - | rate per double ! mal section ( 2 ) allow 
of building, lue as at | ing the Col. ( 3 ) | down value as at the tion is cent. shifts & 

1 of section ance 
machinery , the begin - year for are used | beginning of the ac - | n0W 

triple 

IO 
plant or ning of additions, for the counting period and allowFabie 

shifts 
furniture the accou - alteration , | purposes the value for which 

separat - (Rs. ) Rs. ) ! (Rs. ) Rs.) 
ating per - i improves of the bu - it is actually sold or 

ely 
iod meats & siness , its scrap value 
extensions profession 

от 
| vocation 


(Rs.) 


938THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY11,1957/VAISAKHA21,1879 


* NOTES ( 1 ) In the case of Ocean - going ships, particulars of original cast" inslead of those of the " written down value " should be fur .) ishej . 
- ( 2 ) Capital expeditre on new machinery or plant or Delf building erected should be san separately and in the remarks cluinn 

agajast each sich eatry it shoull be indicated that initial depreciatiin is claimed . 


ГРлитД 


PÅRT V - contd . 

Development rebate under Section 10 (2 ) (vi b ) 
Statement of particu !urs prescribed for the purposes of clause ( vi ) of section 1012 ) of the Indian Income-lax Art, 1922 , end of the amount of Develop 

meni Rehile plorable 


SEC.3] 


Description of new machinery and plant 

installed 


Actual cost of new machinery 

and plant installed 


| Date of install - 

ation 


Rate per ! 
cent. i Amount of rebate : 


REMARKS 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY11,1957/VAISAKHA21,1879939 


1-SerialNo. 


NNameofvillageortownwherethe 

properyissituated 


wNameofStreetndnumberofproperty 


Whentheprolrtyissituatedina Municipality,thenameoftheperson inwhosenamethepropertystands 

intheMunicipalregisters 


uWhetherthepropertyisoccupiedby 

theownerorlet 


Ifyouareapartowneroftheproperty statetheponountofyourshareandthe Daniesoftheotherpart-ownersand theirgharee 


AnnualMunicipalvaluationofthe Property 


Fullannualrentpayablebythetenant doifthepropertyislet 


Tenan tsburden s(includingrates) bornebyowner-Givedetails 


Owner sburdens(includingrates) borebytenants-Givedetails Incaseofpropertyoccupiedbythe ownerforhisownresidence,halfofthe 

annualvalueofRs.18001-whichever 

islegg AnnuallettingValueafteradjusting 

forCols.9,IOandtoA. One-sixthoftheannuallettingvalue asinCol11 


at anpuat value 
Adjustmeot to arrive 


eren 


Income from property 

PART VI 


Premiumpaidtoinguretheproperty 

againstdamageordestruction 

Interestonamortgageorcharge,or enunanyannualchargeonthepipercyor 

Interestoncapitalborwedforac quiring,constructingrepairing,re newingorreconstructingproperty. 


TheGroundrentpaidfortheproperty. 


Less - 
I of the return 
(11) Income 

Claim 
Net Income from property carried to 

during the 
of completion to be specified ) . 

1946 to 31st March 
Total Income from property 

from 
from the date of completion . (Date 

details separately ) 
is exempt for a period of two years 

period 

property 
for irrecoverable rent ( give 

ist 
1956 which 
erected 

Part 
April , 


LandRevenuepaidfortheproperty. 


arrive at net annual value 
Deductions from annual value to 


Collectionchargespaids 


Amountclaimedonaccountofthe Propertyremainingvacant.. 


Perlodduringwhichthepropertyre mainedVacani? 


TotalofColumns12to18 


Netannualvalueassessableafterde dictingColumn20fromColumn 


6481‘IZVHXVSIVA/L96T ILAVW:VICNIJOOLLUZY"IHL006 


Nameandaddressofemployer 


Totalamountofsalary,wages,annu itics,pensions,gratuities,commission, bonus,feesandprofitsinlieuofsalary andwagesduetobepaid,whçther receivedornot 


A 


Totalamountofperiodicalcashallow anceslikehouserentallowallce,en tertainmentallowanceetc.(Givede 
tails) Employer scontributionstorecognised providentfundandinterestcredited toassessce saccountinthefund Valueofrentfreeaccommodationor valueofanyconcessioninrentfor theaccommodationprovidedbythe employer,(Givebasisofcompu tation).Statealsowhetheraccommo dationisfurnishedorunfurnished, Whereafreeconveyancehasbeen Providedbythecmployer,catimated valueoftheperquisite.(Givede tails). 


Remunerationpaidbyemployerfor domesticandpersonalservicespro videdtotheassessce.(Givede tails). Valueoffreeorconcessionalpassages onhumcleave,andothertravelling abroadprovidedbytheemployer. (Givedetails) 


Salaries 
PART VIA 


Estimatedvalueofanyotherbenefit oramenityprovidedbytheemployer, freeofcostoratconcessionalrate, notincludedintheprecedingcolumns. 
(Givedetails) 
TotalSalary. (Totalofcolumns2to9) 


8 


Amountsincludedincolumn10 whichareclaimedtobenon-texable u/s4(3)(vi),413)(viu),4(3)(xiv),4(3) (xiva)413)(20)orunderClause(iii) ofExplanationitoSec.7(1)orSec. 

7(2)(2)Givedetails. Entertainmentallowanceu/s.7(2)(11) 


5 


Expenditureonownconveyance(giving 

detailsseparatelyforrunningex pcnscsandwearandtearclaimed) 

u/s.7(2)(iia). 


Deduction claimed in respect of 


TotalofcolumnsIIto13 


Netincomechargeableunderthe headsalaries transferredtoPartI oftheReturn, 

(column19minues14). 


PART VII 
Particulars of Capital Gains 

Sicement de 


Deductions 


-- 


Dateonwhichassctbecamepropertyofthe assessce. 


Dateofthetransactionofsale,exchangeetc. 


Fullvalueoftheconsiderationforwhichthesale, exchange,etc.wasmade 


Actualcost(orincascaapplicable,the valuewhichshouldbedeemedtobe theactualcost) (SeeCol.10ofPartB) 


con Expenditureincurredsolelyin nectionwitlithesame,cxchangeetc, 


Optionorothermoneysreceivedand retainedbytheassesseeonanyprevious occasion 


8).Totalofactualcost&otherdeductions admissible(TotalofCols.6&7di minishedbycul. 


Amountofcapitalgains,Col.5minuscol.9). 

Ifamountisaloss(col.9---col.5)enter thefiguremarkingitdistinctlyas logo ,orin redink 


Descriptionofasset 


- 


-- 


SerialNumber 


N 


Rs. 1 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


* 1. House properties (with descripcion regarding size , locality etc .) 


Net Capital gaias / loss : Rs. . . . . . . . 
Deduci 

1. Exemptions claimed : 
in Capital gains from house property exempt u /s 12B / 4 ) ( a ) Rs. . . . . 
( b ) Capital gains from house property re - invested in Dew house 

property exempt u /s 12B (476). Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
2 . Capital losses bought forward from earlier years (mentios 

relevant assessment years : . . . Rs.. . . . . . 
Net capital gain / loss transferred to item 6 Sec . A of Part I of this 

return 


* 2 . Other assets ( wita description regarding nature of properties). 
* NOTE . - Show separately ( 1 ) and (2 ). 


Descriptionofasset 


Dateonwhichassetbecamepropertyoftheassessee 


3 


Mannerinwhichassetbecamepropertyofassessec,(herestatewhetherby 

purchase,orconstructionatownexpense,inheritance,successiongift, familyPartition,etc.asmaybeapplicable). 


. 


Actualcostoftheassettotheassessme onthedatementionedincolumn 


tion at own expense 
purchase or construc 
property of assessee by 
ViThere asset beczne 


|Wheretheussctbecametheproperty 

oftheassesscebefore1stJanuury 1954thefairmarketvalueofasset 
onthatdate. Actualcostoftheassettoprevious 

owner,andifitcannotbeascertained -tlicfuirmarketvalueatthedate.on 

whichassetbecarnepropertyofpre viousowners,mentionthedatealso) 


FairmarketvalueofassetonistJan uary,1954ifassetbecameproperty ofpreviousownerbeforçistJanuary 1954) 


Statement B 


utterwise than in 

115 . as aplicable 

ander referi Cu tu in Co . 
Wliere asset became priperty f assessee 


Fairmarketvalueofassetorthcdareof gifttuassCASCC(incuseSetbe cumcpropertyofasscyscobygift 
before1stApril,1956), 


Fairmarketvalueofassetonthedate offamilypartition(incaseasset becarnicpropertyofassessccon funilypartition,whetherbefore oralter1stApril,1956) 


IO 


Before1-1-54oruptothedateofgift, ifearlierthan1-4-56orutothedate ofpartition,asapplicable 


seccions 8 , 9 , 10 and 
ance is admissible under 
respect of which no allow 
additios or alteration in 
the assessee in riaking any 
Jlequate proof, incurred by 
nature , if a :ty , supported by 
Expenditure if a capital 

12 


in 


Aftertherelevantditementiond 
theprecedingcolumn. 


Actualcost,orthevaluedeemedtobetheactualcost(indicatinghowit 

isarrivedwithreferencetothefiguresintheprecedingcolumns) transferredtoCol.6PartA. 


ị 


6766481 17VHYVSIVA/4961 ILAVWVIANIJO 


LAZCHL 


& 18 


4 4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1957 / VAISAKHA 21 , 1879 


[ PART II 


I declare that to the best ofmy knowledge and helief the information given in the above state 
ments in Parts I , II , III , IIIA , IV , V , VI, VIA and VII of this Return is correct and complete 
that the amount of total income and total world income and other particulars shown are truly 
stated and relate to the year ended , , . . . 

* me 

the fum 
and that on other income accrued or arose was received by the family 

during the 
the Association 
the local authority 


* I 


the firm 
sald year and that the family had during the said years no other sources of income 

the association 
* I 

resident and ordinarily resident 
I further declare that the firm was resident but not ordinarily resident in the 
the family 

taxable not resident 
the association 
territories during the previous year for which the Return is made . 

married individual /widow /widower 
W I also declare that I was a an unmarried individual at the end of the previous 
year for which the return is made . 
Date . . . . . 

Signature . . . . . . . . 
Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


Status . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


* NOTE I. - - The alternatives which are not required in the declaration should be scored out. 
+Note 2 .-- The declaration shall be signed 

(a ) In the case of an individual by the individual himself ; 
(b ) In the case of a Hindu Undivided Family by the Manager or Karta 
( c ) In the case of local authority by the principal officer ; 
( d ) In the case of a firm by a partner ; and 

( e ) In the case of any other association by a member of the assocation . 
NOTE 3 . — This declaration should be made in the case of an individual. 

THE SIGNATORY SHOULD SATISFY HIMSELF THAT THE RETURN IS 
CORRECT AND COMPLETE IN EVERY RESPECT BEFORE SIGNING THE VERI 
FICATION 


FORM OF RETURN OF PARTICULARS TO BE FURNISHED UNDER SECTION 38 

OF THE INDIAN INCOME- TAXACT, 1922 ( See paragraph 4 of Notice) . 


( a ) To be filled up in the case of firms only . If this information is already given in Part III of 
the Return under Section 22 of the Indian Income-tax Act , 1922 , write " Sec Part III" in this 
scction . 

Firm s Name 


Address 


Names of partners 


Address 


DA 


Representative s Signature 
Designation 


(b) To be filled up in the case of Hindu Undivided Families only . 

Name of family 


Address 


SEC. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957/VAISAKHA 21, 1879 945 


: 


Şerial 


Address 


No. 


Names of adult members 

of family 


(Manager or Karia ) 


Representativc Signature 


Date 


Designation 


(c) To be filled up by Trustees , Guardians or Agents only . 


Names and addresses of persons for whom the assessce is the 

trustee , guardian or agent 


Whether trustee, guardian 

or agent 


Name , 


Address 


Signature 
Designation 


Date 


Address 


( d ) Statement of the names and addresses of all persons to whom assesace has paid in the 
previous year rent, interest, commission , royalty or brokerage or any annuity ( not being an annuity 
taxable under the head “ Salaries " ) Amounting to more than four hundred rupees and particulars of 
all such payments . 


Whether 

paid in 

cash or by 
Name and address of the person to whom Nature of Amount Date of book 

the payment was made payment paid payment adjustment 


Serial 
No . 


3 


Signature 
Date 

Address 
(e) ( To be filled in by any dealer, broker , or agent or any person concerned in themanagement 
of stock or commodity exchange ). 

Statement of tho names and addresses of all persons to whom the assc38cc has paid in the 
previous year : 

( 1) any sum or aggregate sums in excess of two thousand rupees where the payment repre 

sents " differences " paid in settlement of contracts without actual delivery of stocks or 
commodities ; and 


146 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[ PART II 


996 


( 2 ) any sum or aggregate sums in excess of ten thousand rupees where the payment 

represents sale price in connection with the sale , exchange , or transfer of capital assets , 
or on whoac behalf or from whom the asscasce has received any such sum and parti 

culars oí ul! uch payments and receipts . 
( The question whether any payments or receipts relate to “ capital assets" is a matter to be 
decided by the Inconie - 13X Officer . The person requited to make the statements should treat 
all payments and receipts us pertaining to capital assets, 

(Separate statements should be made for payments and receipts ). 


Name and address of the 
person 10 whom the pay - 
ment was made or on whosc 
behalf or from whom the 

payment was icceived 


Serial 
No. 


Particulars of the 
transition in conncc - 
tion with which the 
payment was made 

ot rçccived 


Amount 
paid or 
received 


Date of Whcther 
payment paid or 
or receipt reccived in 

cash or by 

book 
adjustment 


Signature 
Date 

Address 

FORM B 
Form of Return of Total Income and Total Ilorld Incumne unkt Sul - Scction ( I ) or Sub - Section 
( 2 ) or Sub - Suction ( 24 ) of Sectlo ). Ze of the Indian Income Tax Act , 1922 , for persons who derive 
income from sources other than Business, Profession or l ocution (not being a share , as a purinor in a 
firm or as a member in an association of persons .) 

Income- lax year 19 - 19 
Name . . . . 
Status (whether individual, H . U .P . etc.). .. 
Address : (Office ) 

(Residence ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


PART I 
Statement of torul income and totul vrld income during previous vcar ended .. . . . . . . 


Amount of 
income 
Profils 

and 
Gains 


Tax 
already 
charged 


Source of income 


or 


deducted 


at 


Remarks 
Section A . If income 
atuse in a Part B State 
or a merged tcrritory 
mention that State or 
territory , and if it was 
received in or remitted 
to another Stute that 
other State . 
Section B , State if 
the income arose in 
a foreign country ; 
mentioning the name 
of that country. 


Source 


3 


SECTION A . - Income which accrued OT 

aroge or was received in the first instance 
or is deemed to have accrued or arisen or 
been received in the TAXABLE TERRI 
TORIES in the previous year. 


. 


. 


1 


, 


I 


I 


1. SALARIES 
The total amount as detailed in Part V of 

the Return . 
Please attach a detailed statement of 

monthly salary and tax deducted there 
from . 


2 , INTEREST ON SECURITIES. 

Interest from which tax has been deducted . 
Interest which is tax free . 

- - -- - - - 
3 . PROPERTY . 
Total amount as detailed in part IV of the 

Retlila . 
4 . BUSINESS , PROFESSION OR VOCA 

TION . 


(u ) Share of profits in a Regd . firm . 
( 6.) Share of polits in an unregistered 

firm or Association of persons. 


5 . OTHER SOURCES. 


Dividends from companies ( gross 

amount) , interest on Mortgages, Loans , 

fixed Deposits , Current acs , etc . 
Ground Rents. 


Sourccst other than those mentioned above 

(give details ) . 


6 . CAPITAL GAINS. 
Capital Gains as detailed in Part VI. 
TOTAL OF SECTION A . 


SECTION B . - Income which accrued or 

urose OUTSIDE THE TAXABLE 
TERRITORIES IN THE PREVIOUS 
YEAR . 
(a ) NON -RESIDENTS should show 

full income (except foreign capital 
tains) in this section as forming parų 
of their TOTAL WORLD IN 

COME . 
(6 ) Persons ORDINARILY RESI. 

DENT, in the taxable tcrritories 
should show their income after de 
ducting upto a maximum of Rs. 4 , 500 
out of income not remitted to the 
taxable territories į if the amount 
deducted is less than Rs. 4 , 500 It 

should be specificd , 
( c) Persons RESIDENT BUT NOT 
ORDINARILY 

RESIDENT 
should show only so much of the 
incomc 


948 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1814 . L ART II 


11 


- - 411 


I 


. 


(1) as arises from share in firm or 

Association of persons whose busi 
ness is controlled in India or pro 
fession of vocation is set up in 

India , 
(11) as is actually received in or remit 

ted to the taxable territories out of 

any other iqcome. 
[Please state for each item the heading 

of the income as in Section A .) 


E 


( 2 ) 


( 3) . . . 


TOTAL OF SECTION B . 


IN 


SECTION C . - -NOT APPLICABLE 

THE CASE OF NON -RESIDENTS . 


REMITTANCES TO THE TAXABLE 

TERRITORIES out of income which 
accrued or arose prior to the previous year 
and after the 3rst day of March 1933 or in 
the case of Capital Gains which accrued 
or aroge after the 31st March , 1946 , and 
before the 1st April 1948. ( If the rcmit 
cance is out of Capital Gains cliargeable to 
tax , please state this specifically .) 


NOT APPLICABLE IN THE CASE OF 

NON -RESIDENTS . 


(a ) Out of income which accrued or arosc 

in the State of Jammu and Kashmir , 

and 
(i) was not taxed , 
( ii ) was included in the total income 

but not actually charged to tax , 
(iiz ) was included in the to ttal income 

and also charged to tax in the 

appropriate year . 
Litern (111 ) is to be mentioned only but not 

to be added in the total income. ] 
(5 ) Out of income which accrued or arose 

in a Part B State or a merged territory 

or an crstwhile Indian State , and 
(1 ) was not taxed , 
( in ) wos included in the total income but 

not actually charged to tax , 
( iii ) was included in the total income 

and also charged to tar but at a 

lower rate , 
(iv ) was included in the total income 

and also charged to tax at full inte 

in the appropriate year. 
[ Items (it) and (iv ) are to be mentioned 
only but not to be added in the total incomc.] 


(c) Out of income which accrued or arose 

in Chandernagore , and 

was not taxed , 
(it) was included in the total income 

and also charged to tax at full 

rate in the appropriate year. 
[ Item (H ) is to be mentioned only but got 
to be added in the total income.] 


Sec . 37 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957/ VAISAKHA 21, 1870 949 


(d ) Out of income which accrued or ATOSC 

in a foreign country , and 
(1) was not charged to tax on account of 

the deduction of upto Rs. 4 , 500 OD 

otherwise , 
(1 ) was charged to tax . 

[ Item (17) is to be mentioned only but is 
not to be added in the total income. ] 


+ 


LA 


TOTAL OF SECTION C. 


TOTAL OF SECTIONS A , B & C . 


Sources of Income 


Particulars of items 


Amount 


Rs. 


SECTION D IN THIS SECTION SHOULD I 

BE SHOWN ANY INCOME, PRO 
FITS OR GAINS WHICH ARE NOT 
INCLUDED IN SECTIONS A , B 
& Ç BUT WHICH THE ASSESSEE 
CLAIMS TO BE NOT TAXABLE FOR 2 . 
ANY REASON SUCH AS 
that the receipt is of a casual nature not 3 . 
arising from any business , profession , 
vocation or occupation , or that it is 
cxempt under any other provision of the 
Indian Income- tax Act , or 
that it is not accounted for in the books 
of accounts due to non - adjustment of 
accounts ; or for any other reason . 


4 . 


TOTAL OF SECTION D 


PART II 
Statament of sums included in totalincome in respect ofwhich income- tax and /or Super-tax is not 

puyable 


I, Earncd income allowance under Section 15 - A . 


Ro. 


2 . Sum deduc. cd from salary payable by the Government and to which the first 

proviso to sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 7 of the Act applies . 


3 . Sums paid to effect in insurance on the life of the assessce or on the life of his 

wife , or her husband or in respect of a contract for 1 deferred annuity ; or, in 
the case of a Ilindu Undivided Family, to effect an insurance on the life of 
any male member or his wife . ( Thic original receipt or Certificate from 
thc Insurance Company must be at . ched ) 


4 . Contributions to ( a ) any provident fund to which the Provident Funds Act , 

1925 , applies , (b ) a recognised provident fund , or (c ) a Provident fund estab 
lished under the Employees Provident Fund Act , 1952 , or, (d ) an approyed 
superannuation fund , and (c ) interest on contributions to recognised 
provident fund and accumulations thereof which is exempt from Income Tax . 


[Part II 
. - = 


950 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 11, 1957 / VAISAKHA 21, 1879 

. 
5 . Share in the income of an unregistered firm or an association of persons 

where the tax has already been paid or is payable on the income by the firm 
or 48sociation ( given details ). 


Rs. 


6 . Interest on tax free securities, 


7 . Share of Income from new Industrial undertakings exempt under Section 

15 - C . 


8 . Donations to charitable Institutions and Funds exempt under Section 15 - B . 


9. Other Items, if any. 


TOTAL 


PART III 
Particulars required under sub-section (5 ) of Scction 22 of the Income- lux ril 1922 

If you are a partner in a firm , furnish the purticulars required below 


Name and address of the 

firm 


Name of each 

partner 
including the 

assessce 


Residential 
Address of eacti 

partner 


Share of cach partner 
including interest on 
capital , salary , commis 
sion or other remunera 
tion , if any (Given details) 


PART IIIA 


Particular to be filled up in the case of Hindu Undivided furnilies only . 
Name of family .. . .. 


Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


Remarks 


Serial Names of members of the family at the end 
No . of the previous year who were entitled to 

Claim partition 


Relationship 


Age at the 
end of the 
previous 

yeur 


3 


4 


imme 


SerialNo. 


NNameofvillageortownwherethepropertyissituated. 


wNameofsterelandnumberofProperty. 


WhenthepropertyissituatedinaMunicipality,thename 

ofthepersonsinwhosenamethepropertystandsinthe Municipalregisters. 


L 


uWhetherthepropertyisoccupiedbytheownerorlet, 


- 


--- 


--- 


| 


Ifyouareapartownerofthepropertystatetheamount ofyourshareandthenamesoftheotherpartowner undtheirsharcs. 

--------- 


-- 


- 


AnnualMunicipalvaluationoftheproperty. -------- 0Fullannualrentpayablebythetenantifthepropertyislet. 


---- 


------ ------- ----- ------ 


1 


Tenant sburdens(includingrates)borneby 

owner-Givedetails.------ Owner sburdens(includingrates)borneby 
tcnants-Givedetails.---- 

-- 


l 


-- 


- 


- -- 


- 


- 


1 


- - 


Incaseofpropertyoccupiedbytheownerfor onhisownresidencc,halfoftheannualvalueof 

Rs.18cm/whichicierisless. Annuallettingvalueafteradjustingforcols.9,10and 
_JOA.-------- ---- One-sixthoftheannualvalueasinCol.11. 

Premiumpaidtoinsurethepropertyagainstdamage 
wofdestruction._--~ 

Interestonamortgage,orchargeoranyannualcharge onthepropertyorinterestoncapitalborrowedfor acquiringconstructing,repairing,renewingor3 

reconstructingproperty. --- Groundrentpuidfortheproperty LandRevenuepaidfortheproperty. 


value 
Astive at annual 

Adjustments to 
PART IV - INCOME FROM PROPERTY 

| Deductions from annual value to arrive at net annual value 


i Return 
| Lessm i) Claim 

(i ) Income from 

separately ). 

from the date of 
Net inome from property carried to Part I of the 

completion to be specified .) 
which is exempt for a period of two years 

completion . 
Total Income from pri neity 
period ist April 1946 to 31st March 956 

property eerected during the 
for irreco - rable rent give detajl 

( Date of 


Collectionchargespaid. 


ingvacant.Amountclaimedonaccountofthepropertyremain 


1 


- 


2 


Periodduringthepropertyremainedvacant. ---- 8.TotalColumns12to18. 


Netannualvalue288c99ableafterdeductingColumn 20fromColumnII. 


1$68481‘IZVHXVSIVN/1961 ItAWW:VICNIAOELLIZVDIHI! 


[ɛons 


P 


!-Nameandaddressofemployer 


Totalamountofsalary,wages,annuities,pensions,gratuitics, commission,bonus,feesandproftsinlieuofsalaryandwages ductobepaid,whetherreceivedornot. 


Totalamountofperiodicalcashallowanceslikehouserent allowanceentertainmentallowanceetc.(Givedetails). 


Employer scontributionstorecognisedprovidentfundand interestcreditedtoassessee saccountinthefund. 


- 


- 


- 


--- 


Valueofrentfreeaccommodationorvalueofanyconcession inrentfortheaccommodationprovidedbytheemployer,(Give basisofcomputation).Statealsowhetheraccommodationis furnishedorunfurnished. 


aWhereafreeconveyancehasbeenprovidedbytheemployeresti 

matedvalueoftheperquisite.(Givedetails) 


-- 


-- 


- 


- 


-- 


N 


Remunerationpaidbyemployerfordomesticandparsonal 

servicesprovidedtotheassessee.(Givedetails) 


Valueoffreeorconcessionalpassageson"homeleave, othertravellingabroadprovidedbytheemployer details) 


and (Give 


PART V - SALARIES 


Estimatedvalueofanyotherbenefitoramenityprovidedbythe employer,freeofcostoratconcessionalrate,notincludedin theprecedingcolumns, (Givedetails) 


Totalsalary. (Totalofcolumns2to9). 


Amountsincludedincloumn10whichareclaimedtobe 

non-taxableu/s4(3)(vi),4(3)(via),4(3)(xiv),4(3)(xiva) 4(3)(xv)orunderClause(iii)ofExplanationIto section(1)orSec.7(2)(i).Givedetails, 


H 


-- 


- 


Entertainmentallowanceu/87(2)(ii). 


pect of 
Deductions claimed in 


--- 


Expenditureonownconveyance(givingdetailsseparately forrunningexpensesandwearandtearclaimed)u/s 7(2)(iia). 


TotalofcolumnsII1013. 


res 


Netincomechargeableunderthehead salaries transferredto PartIoftheReturn. 


(column10minus14.) 


II-Val 


d I IZYTTYYTVN/4961 ILAVW:VIANLOITT Y 


IHL256 


|Descriptionofasset 


Dateonwhichassetbecainepropertyoftheassessce 


. 


N 


į 


----- 


Mannerinwhichassetbecamepropertyofassessee. (herestatewhetherhypurchase,(orconstructionsatown expense,inheritance,succession,gift,familypartition, etc.usmaybeapplicable) 


Actualcostoftheassettotheassessceontliedatemen 

tionedincolumn2. 


- 


- 


-- 


-- 


--- 


tion at own expense 
purchase or construc 
property of assessee by 
Wherë asset became 


Wheretlicassetbecamethepropertyoftheassessee 

beforeIstJanuary1954thefairmarketyalueofasset Onthatdate, 


Actualcostoftheusyettopreviousowner,andifit cannotbeascertainedthefairmarketvalueatthedate onwhichassetbecamepropertyofpreviulisowuleti (mentionthedatealso). 


— 


FairmarketvalueofassetonistJanuary,1954if asserbecamepropertyofpreviousownerbefore1st 
January,1954). 


as applicable 
wise than in manner referred to in COL 415 , 
here asset became property of assessee other 


Statement B 


Fairmarketvalueofassetonthedateofgifttoassessee (11caseassetbccamepropertyofassesseehygiſtbefore 
IstApril,1956). 


Fairmarketvalueofassetonthedateoffamily partilion,(incaseassetbecamepropertyofassesseeon familypartitions,whtherbeforeorafteristApril,1956. 


- 


Before1-1-54oruptothedateofgift,ifexrlierthan 

1-4-56,oruplolhedateofpartition,asapplicable. 


- 


- 


ance is 
addition 
sections 8 , 9 , 10 

or 

admissible under 
respect of which no allow 
the assessee in making any 
adequate proof, incurred by 
nature , if any, supported by 
Expenditure of a 

alteration 

andcapital 

12in 


E 


l 


Aflertherelevantdalementionedintheprecedingcolumn 


Í 


Actualcogt,orthicvaluedeemedtobetheactualcost, (indicatinghowitisarrivedatwithreferencetothe figuresintheprecedingCols.)transferredtoCol.6 
PartA. 


ES66487 IZVHXVSIYA/496[ ILAVW:VIONIOFILLOZVDIHL 


C& OIS 


954 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1957 / VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


PART II 


I declare that to the best of iny knowledge and belief the information given in the above 
statements in Parts I, II , III , IIIA , IV , V and VI of this Return is correct and complete that the 
amounts of total income and total world income and other particulars shown are truly stated and 
relate to the year ended , . , . . . . . 

. * mc 


and that no other income accrued or arose or was received by 


the family 


durlog the 


the association 
the family 
said year and that - - - -- - re hud during the said year no other sources of income. 
the association 

resident and ordinarily resident 
I further declare that the family was resident but not ordinarily resident in the 
the association 

not resident 
taxable territories during the previous year for which the Return is made , 

* married individual/widow /widower 
* * I also declare that I was a 

at the end of the 

an unmarried individual 
previous year for which the return is made. 
Date 

Signature , 
Address 

Status 


* NOTE 1. — The alternatives which are not required in the declaration should be scored out. 
NOTE 2 . - - The declaration shall be signed 
( a ) in the case of an individual by the individual himself. 
(6 ) in the case of a Hindu Undivided Family , by the Manager or Karta . 

(c ) in the case of a local authority by the principal officer : 
* *NOTE 3. - This declaration should be made in the case of an individual, 

THE SIGNATORY SHOULD SATISFY HIMSELF THAT THE RETURN IS 
CORRECT AND COMPLETE IN EVERY RESPECT BEFORE SIGNING THE VERIFI 
CATION – 
Form of return of particulars to be furnished under section 38 of the Indian Income- tax 

Act, 1922 ( See paragraph 4 of notice ). 


(a ) To be filled up in the case of Hindu Undivided Families only . 

Name of family. 
Address 


( Serial 

No. 


Names of adult members of family 


Address 


(Manager or Karta ) 


HNYV 


Date 


Representative s Signature 

Designation 


LLLL 


(6) To be filled up by Trustees, Guardians or Agents only . 
Names and addresses of persons for whom the 498e88cc is the trustce, 

guardian , or agent, 


Whether trustec , 
guardian , or agent. 


Name 


Address 


Dett 


Signature 
Designation 
Addros 


PART VI 
Particulars of Capital Gains 

Statement , 


Deductions 


Dateonwhichassetbecamepropertyof theussessce 


|Duteofthetransactionofsale,exchange 


Fullvalueoftheconsiderationforwhichthe saleexchange,etc.wasmade 


Actualcost(orincasesapplicable,the valuewhichshouldbedeemedtobe 

(SceCol.10ofPartB)theactualcopt.) 


Expendituroincurredsolelyinconnec 

tionwiththesale,excliange,etc. 


Descriptionofasset 


Optionorothermoney,received andretainedbytheussesseeon anypreviousoccasion 


ofTotalofactualcostandotherdeductions| 

(TotalofCols,6&7 diminishedbyCol.8)admiysible. 


(Cols.5 

gains. minuscol.9).Ifamountisa10b8 (col.94.col.5)enterthefigure,markingAmountofcapital itdistinctlyasfloss ,orinredink. 


SerialNumber 


Sec.3]|THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY11,1967/VAISAKHA21,1879955 


etc, 


I 


- 


2 


w 


ou 


IO 
Rs. 


RS. 


* 1. Heuse properties ( with description regarding size, locality etc.) 


* 2. Other assets (with description regarding nature of properties ). 


Net Capital gains / loss : Rs. . . . 
Deduct : 
I. Exemptions claimed : 

(a ) Capital gains from house property exempt u s 12B (4X4 ) Rs. 
(5 ) Capital gains from house property re -invested in new house property 

exempt u s 12B 4Xb ). Rs. . . . . . . 
2 . Capital losses brought forward from earlier years (mention relevant 

assessment years ! . . . . . Ks. . . . . . . . . . . . 
Net capital gainfloss transferred to item 6 Sec . A of Part I of 

this retum . . . . . . . . 


*NOTE . - Show separately (I ) and (2 ). 


956 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1957 / VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


PART II 


(c ) Statement of the genes and addresses of all persons to whom assessce has paid in the 
previous year rent , interest, commission , royalty or brokage or any annuity (not being an annuity 
taxable under the head “ Şalarics " ) aniounting to more than four hundred rupees and parti 
culars of all such payments. 


Serial 


Name and address of the person to 

whom the payment was made 


No , 


Nature 

of 
payment 


Amount Date of 
paid payment 


Whether 
paid In 
cash or 
by book 
adjust 
ment 


Date 


Signature 
Designation 
Address 


FORM C 


Form of Return of total income and totul tuorld income under sub - section ( 1 ) or sub - scclicn ( 2 ) 
or sub -section (2A ) of section 22 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 , for Companies only . 


Income-tax yeur 19 


19 . . . . . . 


Name of the 


Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


Address 


SS 


. . 


PART I 
Statement of total income and totalworld income during the previous yeur ended . 


REMARKS 
Soction A . If Income 
arose in a part B State , 
or a merged territory , 
niention that State or 

tcrritory and if it was 
Amount of Tax already receivcă in or rcmitted 

income charged or to another State that 
Profits and deducted at Olher state 
Gains Source Section B . State of the 

income arosc in 
furcign country ; men 
tioning the name of 
that country 


Source of income 


SECTION A . - Income which accrued or arose 

or was received in the first instance or is 
deemed to have accrued Or Arisen or been 
received in the TAXABLE TERRITORIES 
in the previous year , 


Sec . 37 " 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MA . 11, 1957/ VAISANHA u1, 1018 


/ 


23 


I . INTERRST ON SECURITIES . Interest 
from which tox has been deducted . 
Interest which is tax free . 
( The amounts as detailed in Part VIA of 
the return ) 


2 . PROPERTY . 
Total amount as detailed in Part VI of the 

Return . 


3 . BUSINESS , PROFESSION OR VOCA 

TION . 
( a ) Profits and gainy detailed in Part IV 

of this Return . 
( 6 ) Share of profits in regd . firm 
( c ) Share of profits in an unregistered firm 

or association of persons, 


1. OTHER SOURCES , 
Dividends from companies ( gross amount ), 

interest on Mortgages , 
Loans , Fixed Deposits, Current a/ cs . ctc . 
Ground Rents. 
Sources other than those mentioned above 
( give details) . 


S . CAPITAL GAINS. 
Capital Gains as detailed in Part VII. 


TOTAL OF SECTION A . 


SECTION B . - Income which accrued or arosc 

OUTSIDE THE TAXABLE TERRITORIES 
IN the previous year. 
(a ) NON -RESIDENT COMPANIES should 

ghow full income ( except forcign capital 

gains) in this section as forming part 

of their TOTAL WORLD INCOME. 
(6 ) COMPANIES RESIDENT in the taxablo 

territories should show their income after 
dcducting upto a maximum of Rs. 
4 , 500 / - out of income not remitted to the 
taxable territories (if the amount deducted 
is less than Rs. 4 , 500/ - it should be spe 
cificd ), 


TOTAL OF SECTION B . 


- 


- 


- 


SECTION C . - - (NOT APPLICABLE IN 

THE CASE OF NON - RESIDENT COM 

PANIES ). 
REMITTANCES TO THE TAXABLE TER 

RITORIES out of Income which accrued or 
rose prior to the previous year and after the 
318t day of March 1933 or in the case of 
Capital Gains which accrued or arose after 
the 31st March . 1946 and before 
the 1st April 1948 . ( If the remittance is out 
of Capital Gains chargeable to tax please state 
this specifically . ) 


T . .. WADIT . OF I DL.. . A . 11, l. wi / VAIA WA 21, 1878 


ART 


( a ) Out of income which accrued or 

ATOSc in the State of Jammu and Ka 
shmir and 

(1) was not taxed , 
(11 ) was included in the total ¡ A 

come but not actually charged 

to tax , 
(111) was included in the total in 

come and also charged to 

tax in the appropriate year, 
[ Item (iii ) is to be mentioned only 

but not to be added in the total 

income. ] 
( 6 ) Out of income which accrued or 

erose in a Part B State or inerged terri 
tory or an erstwhile Indian State and 

(1) was not taxed , 
( 11) was included in the total income 

but not actually charged to 

tax , 
( iii ) was included in tlic total 

income and also charged to 

tax but at a lower rate, 
(iv ) was included in the total 

income and also charged 10 
tax at full rate in the appro 

Priutę year. 
Items ( 111 ) and (iv ) are to be men 

tioned only hut not to be added 

in the total income.] 
( c) Out of income which accrued or 
arose in Chandernagore , and 

( 1) was not taxed , 
(11 ) was included in the totalin 

come and also charged to tax at 
full rate in the appropriate 

year. . 
Item (11 ) is to he mentioned only 

but not to be added in the total 

incomc. ] 
(d ) Out of income which accrued or 
aruse in a foreign country and 
(1) was not charged to tax OD AC 

count of the deduction of upto 

Rs. 4 , 500 or otherwise . 
( i ) was charged to tax . 
Item (11) is to bementioned only but 

Dot to be added in the total 
income. ] 


TOTAL OF SECTIONC 


Total of Section , A , B & C 


Amount 


Source of Income 


Particulars of items 


Rs. 


SECTION D . - IN THIS SECTION SH - I . 

SHOULD BE SHOWN ANY INCOME , 
PROFITS OR GAINS WHICH ARE 
NOT INCLUDED IN SECTIONS A , B , 2 . 
AND C BUT WHICH THE ASSESSEE 
CLAIMS TO BE NOT TAXABLE FOR 
ANY REASON SUCH AS 


that the receipt is of a cagual nature not 
arising from any business , profesion , Voca 
tion or occupation or that it is exempt . . 
under any other provision of the Indian 
income-tax Act , or 
that it is not accounted for in the books of 6 . 
account due to non - adjustment of 7 . 
account ; or for any other reason . 


TOTAL OF SECTION D 


PART II 
Statement of Sums included in the incone in respect of which Income-tax and /or Super- tax is not 

payable 


I . Sliare in the income of an unregistered firm or an association of persons where the tax 

has already been paid or is payable on the incomeby the firm or association ( give details.) 


- 


2. Interest on tax -free securities . 

- 
3. Share of income from New Industrial undertakings exempt under section 15 - C . 


4 . Donations to charitable Institutions and Funds, 


5 . Dividends from an Indian company cxempt under section 56A . 


. 


6 . Other items, if any . 


PART III 


Particulars required under sub - soctiox (5 ) of Şeotion 22 of tho Income-tout Act, 1952 , and in 
Tespect of subsidiary companiosof the 9880980 Company 

Place where the Registered Office of the Company is situated . 
(6 ) Place where the Head Office of the Company is situated : 

Location of cach Branch . 
( d ) Naine and location of subsidiary companies , if any. 

Where the company is a partner in i firm or firma 


Name of each partnor Addich of cech 

including the partner 

avegace 


Nurne and addrew of the firm 


Share of cach part 

Der including in 
terest on capital 
salary , commission , 
or other remunen 
tion if any ( give 
details.) 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. 


ou 


111 GAZTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1967 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[ PART II 


PART IV 

Particulars of income from Business 
If the accounts are kept on themercantile accountancy , or book profit system , a copy 
of the manufacturing accounts of trading accounts , the profit and loss account and balance shçe 
or irial balances must be attached to this Return . If the accounts are kept on any other system , the 
t name or description of the system is to be stated and a copy of any statement which corresponds 

o the profit and loss account and balance sheet in the mercantile accountancy system must be 
attached to this Return . 

A copy of the Auditor s Report and Certificate must also be attached , 


PROFIT OR LOSS AS PER PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT (OR STATEMENT COR 
RESPONDING TO THE PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 19 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Add - (deduct if the above figure is a loss ) 

Any profits or gains not included in arriving at the above figure 
of profit. 


- 


- 


- 


Reserve fur bad debts 


Sums carried to Reserve for provident or other funds 


Interest credited to reserves or other funds 


, 


. 


Expenditure of the nature of charity or presents 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Expenditure of the nature of capital 
- - - - - 
Income- tax or Super - tax 


- - - - 


Rental value of the property owned and occupied 


Cost of additions to , or alterations, extensions or improvements 

to any of the assets of the business , profession or vocation , 


Losges sustained in former years and charged in arriving at the 

figure of profit ( or loss ) shown above. 


Depreciation of any of the assets of the business or development 

rebate . 


Expenses and allowances charged in the accounts in respect of 

the items referred to in section jo (4A ) (details to be fur 
nished in Part IV A ) . . . . . . . 


Any other expenditure not incurred wholly and exclusively for 

the purpose of the business, (Give details) . . . . 


Any other expenditure which is not allowable under the provisions 

of Section 10 . (Give details ) . . . . . . 


Deduci-- 
Any proſit or gains , capital sums or other items credited in 

Arriving at the above figure of profit which are not 
taxable or upon which tax has already been paid , (Give 
details ) . . . . . . . . . . 


Interest on security tax free 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Expcnges and allowances referred to in section 10 ;(4A ) which 

the , company claims as reasonable deduction under sub 
Section ( 2 ) of Section to having regard to the provisions of 
sub - section (4A ) of that Section (details to be furnished in 
Part IVA ) 


SEC. 3 ] · THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1967 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 901 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Depreciation allowable as shown in Part V of this Return . 
Scientific Research Expenditure (if not charged in arriving at 

the above figure of profit ) 
(1) Any expenditure ( not in the nature of capital expenditure ) 

laid out or expended on scientific research related to the 

business . (Givc details ) 
( 11) Any gum paid to an approved scientific research associa 

tion or an approved university , college or other institution 

for guch scientific research . (Give details ) . . . 
(111 ) Any expenditure of u capital nature on scientific research 

related to the business admissible under Section 10 ( 2 ) 

( iv ) of the Act . (Give details ! . . . . 
Any other allowable expenses which has not been charged in 

arriving at the above figure of profit . (Give details ). 


NET PROFIT ( or loss ) carricd to Part I of the Return 


. 


. 


- 


SartalYumber. 


hot 

o 


Auneandaddressoftheper500(direc tororapersonconcernedinthema nagementofthecompanybeneficially owningsharescarryingnotlessthan 20percentthevotingpowerinthe company). 


Salary,remunerationdueorspecial paymentsincashmadebythecom panytotheperson.(Givcdecails). 


Valueofrentfreeorconcessional-retrt quartersprovidedtohimbythe companyforhisoccupation.(Give basisofcomputation). 


Valueoffurniture,appliancesand amenitiesprovidedbythecompany forthehouseholduseofthcTperson, freeofcost,oratconcessionalrent. (Givedetails). 


Whereafreeconveyancehasbeen 

providedtohimbythecompany,des criptionoftheconveyance. Amountofentertainmentallowances| andotherpaymentsinthenatureof entertainmentallowancespaidtohim bythecompany,oramountsreim bursedtohimby.thecompanyon accountofexpensesonentertain ments, 


pholly or partly for their own purposes or benefit [ See Section IOCTA )]. 
& substantial interest in the company and particulars of allowances claimed under the Act in respect of the Company s assets used by the personis referred to 
Particulars of expenditure which has resulted directly or indirectly in the provision of any remuneration or benefit of onenity 1. directors and other PTSOAS 


PART IV - AT 


Travellingexpensesmetbycompany onaccountofhistoursabroad-10 cludingfareandconcessionalpagga gesonhomeleave.(Givedetails). 


6 


Remunerationpaidbycompanyfordo mesticorpersonalservicesprovided tohim.(Givedetails). 


Valueofanyotherbenefitsorameni 

ticsprovidedtohimbythecompany freeofcostoratconcessionalcost (notincludedintheprecedingcolumns). (Givedetails). 


IO 


II 


Amountofdepreciationandother allowancesclaimedbythecompany inthisReturninrespectofanyofits Assetswhicharewhollyorpartly ugodbyhimforhisownprivatepur posesthroughoutorforanypartof theyear.(Givedetails,ofassetsand Amountclaimed). 


IZ 


Renarks 


- 


PART V . - D .JPRECIATION 
Statement of particulars prescribed under prociso (a ) of Section 10 (2) (01) of the Income- tax Act , 1922, and of the Amount of depreciation 

alouable . 


-O 


Depr 


Total 


201313 


Descrip - 1 * Written 1 Capital Date from 

tion of down value expenditure which 
building up at the during the the addi 
coachin - | beginning year for tions , etc ., 
, pleat of the ac additions , referred to 

counting altera in Col. (3 ) 
un period tions, im are used 

provements for the 

and purposes 
extensions of the 

business , 
profesion 
of Focation 


If a Plant OL Amount on Prescribed No. of 

Depreciation claimed 
machinery has been which de- rate per days 
sold or discarded preciation cent 
during the year , is now 

double Initial ! Nor- Additional Extra 
show in this allowable 

shifts and 

mal under shift 
Column the 

triple shifts 

clause (Fia ) allow 
* written down 

separately 

of sub - ce 
Falle as at the 

section ( 2 ) 
beginning of the 

of section 
accounting period 

Ιο 
and the value for 

(Rs.) (Rs.) (Rs.) (Re ) 
which it is acually 
sold or its scrap 

yalue 


(Rs.) 


.H.uGaz11.U.NLA,MA..I1,E17,ALA.421,11 


*NOTES 


(1 ) In the case of Ocean - going ships , particulars of " origji al ccst instead of itcre of ite " ritten down value" sculd be furtished . 
( 2 ) Capital expenditure on new machinery or plant or new building erected should be shown separately puede in the remarks column against 

wach such entry , it should be indicated that initial depreciation is claimed 


DEVELOPMENT REBATE UNDER SECTION 10 (2 ) ( vi b ) 
Statement of particulars prescribed for the purposes of clause ( vi b ) of section 10 (2 ) of the Indian Income- tar Act , 1922 , 

and of the amount of Development Rebate allowance . 


Description of new machinery 

plant installed 


and 


Actual cost of new machinery 

and plant installed 


Date of 
installation 


Rate per 
cent 


Amount of rebate 


| Remarks 


964 
THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
MAY 
11 
, 
1957 
/ 
VAISAKHA 
21 
, 
1876 


[ 
PART 
II 


i 


SerialNo. 


Nánieofvillageortownwherethepro 

pertyissituated 


w 


NameofStreetandnumberofproperty WhentheproperyissituatedinaAluni 

cipality,thenameofthcpersoninwhose numethepropertystandsintheMuni 

cipalregisters 
Whetherthepropertyisoccupiedbythe 

ownerorlel Ifyouareapartowneroftheproperty 

statetheamountofyourshareand thenumesoftheotherpartowners 

undtheirshares AnnualMunicipalvaluationofthe 

propirty Fullannualrentpayablebythetenant 

ifthepropertyislel 


a 


Jo 


- 
- 


- 


Tenant sburdens(includingrates) 

bornebyowner-Givedetails 


5 


- 


- 


Owner sburdens(includingrates) 

bornebytenants-Givedetails Incaseofpropertyoccupiedbythe 

ownerforhisownresidence,Inalf| oftheannualvalueorRs.1,800, whicheverisless 


TOA 


- 


Annuallettingvalueafteradjusting 

forCols.9,Ioand10A 


II 


One-sixthoftheannuallettingvalue 

asinCol.II 


Preiniumpaidtoinsuretheproperty 

againstdamageordestruction 


Interestonamortgageorcharge,or anyannualchargeontheproperty orinterestoncapitalborrowedfor acquiring,constructing,repairing, renewingorreconstructingproperty 


| at annual value 
Adjustm nts to arrise . 
PART VI - INCOME FROM PROPERTY 

Deductions from annual value to arrive at net annual value 


14 


Groundrentpaidfortheproperty LandRevenuepaidfortheproperty 


| 


return . - 

separately ) 

pletion to be Specified ) 
Net Income from property carried to Part I of the 
Total Income from property 

from the date of completion 
which is exempt for a period of two years : 

period ist April 1946 to 31st March 1956 

( ii ) Income from property erected during the 
Less - (i) Claims for irrecoverable rent (give details il 

Date of com 


5 


Collectionchargespaid ----- 

—— Amountclaimedonaccountofthe 

propertyremainingvacant 


Periodduringwhichtheproperty 

remainedvacant 


8 


TotalofColumns12to18 


Netannualvalueassesgableafterde 

ductingColumn20(romColumnIr 


S966481IGVHYVSIYA/1961ITAVWVIQNIJOCILLIZVÐJHL 


L&ous 


f 


Tax 


Grossamountofinterestrealisedonsecurities duringtheyear 


Others 


Тех 


frec 
Others 


Facevalueofthesecuritiesinrespectofwhich theamountofinterestshownincolumnsI and2wasrealisedduringtheyear 


Amountoftaxdeductedatsourceininterest shownincolumn2. 


sec . 
frec 


Tax 


Amountofexpensesincurredbythecompany forthepurposeofrealisingtheinterest shownincolumnsIand2. 


OE 


For interest 


Other 


Sec. 


of a banking company 
Not to be filled in the case 


Sec . 


2T 374 5 | 6 1718191 10 T 11 | 12 | 13 T 


free lo 
Tax 


Amountofanyinterestpayableonmoney borrowedforthepurposeofinvestmenton securitiesmentionedincolumns3and4. 


Other 

Sec. 


! 


Aggregateoftheexpensesofthecompanyas areadmissibleundersub-section(2)ofsection IO,otherthanunderclauses(int)(u)(via) (vib),(vii),(vui),(x1),(ait),(xiii)and(xiu (givedetails) 


free 


Amountapportionableessumreasonably expandedbythecompanyforthepurposesof realisingtheinterestshownincolumns1and 2(Seeclausc(a)ofExplanationtoSection 


Others 


8) 


Totalamountofinterestonmoneysborrowed forthepurposesofthebankingbusinessor forinvestmentinsecurities(includingin terest,ondeposits) Amountofinterestincolumn13apportion 

ableasinterestpayablebythecompanyon moneyborrowedforthepurposesofinvest mentinsecurities 


To be filled in the case of a banking company 


Interest on Securities ( see Section 8 of the Income- tat Act ) 

PART Vİ- A 


14 | 15 


Sec. 
Tax free Other 

Sec. 


Interest free on 


i 


T 16T 


Taxfree Col.1-minus (Col.IIplugCol.14) 


banking company 
In the case of a 


17 


Otheraccurities Col.2-minus (Col,12plusCol.15) 


carried to Part I of the Rerum 
Net amount of interest on Securities 


Taxfree Col.I--minus (Col.6plusCol.8) 


OtherSecurities Col.2-minus (Col.7plusCol.). 


companies 

other 
In the case of 


ITtuval 


6481 1VHYVŠIVA/496T ILAVW:VIONIJOLLLSZVDJHL996 


PART VII 
Particulars of Capital Gains 

Statement A 


SEC.37 


- 


- 


- 


Deductions 


- 


Dateofthetransactionofsalc,exchange etc, 


Dateonwhichassetbecameproperty oftheassessce 


Fullvalueoftheconsiderationforwhich thesaleexchangeetc.Wasmade 


Actualcost(orincasesapplicable,the 

valuewhichshouldbedeemedtobe theactualcost).(SeeCol.ioofPartB) 


N|Descriptionofasset 


Expenditureincurredsolelyincon nectionwiththesaleexchangeetc. 


Optionorothermoncysreceived andretainedbytheassesseconany 

previousoccasion 


5 

or(Col. thefigure, 

"loss,gains 

entercapital 

distinctlyasminusCol,9)Ifamountisalogs 

5)of 

ink. 

9—Col. markingit 

redAmount (Col. in 


Totalofactualcost&otherde ductionsadmissible.(TotalofCols. 6&7diminishedbycol.8) 


- 


SerialNunber 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY11,1957/VAISAKHA21,1879967 


TO 


FO! 


w 


RS 


Rs. 


* 1. House properties (with description regarding size, locality etc.) 
* 2 . Other assets (with description regarding nature of properties ). 
* NOTE : - Show separately ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). 


Net Capital gains/loss : Rs.. . . . .. 
Deduct : 
1 . Exemptions claimed : 

(a ) Capital gains from house property exempt u s 12B ( 4 ) (a ) Rs. . . . . . . 
(6 ) Capital gains from house property re -infested in new house property 

exempt u s 12B ( 4 / 6 ). Rs. . . 
2 . Capital losses brought forward from earlier years (mention relevant 

assessment years ) . . . . . Rs. . - - . . . 
Net apital gain loss transferred to item 6 Sec . A of Part I of this return 


Descriptionofasset 


Dateonwhichassetbecamepropertyoftheussessee 


Mannerinwhichassetbecamcpropertyofassessee(herestatewhether bypurchase,orconstructionatownexpense,inheritance,succession, gift,familypartitionetc,asmaybeapplicable) 


thedate 


Actualcostoftheassetcotheassesseeon 
mentionedincolumn2 


Dease 
tion at owo ex 
chase or construc 
as: essee by pur 

came property of 
Where asset be 


Wheretheassetbecamethepropertyoftheassessce beforçistJanuary,1954thefairmarketvalueofasset onthatdate 


Actualcostoftheassettopreviousowner,andifit cannotbeascertainedthefairmarketvalueatthedate onwhichussetbecamepropertyofprevioudOwner; (mentionthedatealso) 


FairinarketvalueofassetonjatJanuary,1954(ifasset becamepropertyofpreviousownerbeforeIstJanuary, 1954) 


Statement 


than in manner referred to in Col. 4 / 5 , as applicable 
Where asset became property of assessee otherwise 


Fairmarketvalueofassetonthedateofgift10assessee (incaseasaệtbecamepropertyofassesseebygift beforeIstApril,1956) 


- 


Fairmarketvalueofassetonthedateoffamilyparti 

tion(incageassetbecamepropertyofassesseeon familypartitionwhetherbeforeorafter1stApril, 1956) 


- 


-- 


- 


-- 


- 


Before1-1-54oruptothedateofgift,ifearlierthan 

1-4-56,oruptothedateofpartition,asapplicable. 


TO 


addition or 
sections 8 , 9 , 10 and 12 
ance is admissible under 
respect of which no allow 
the assessed in making any 
adequate proof, incurred by 
nature , if any , supported by 

alteration 
Expenditure of a capital 

in 


- 


- 


-- 


II 


Aftertherelevantdatementionedin column 


thepreceding 


Actualcost,orthervaluedecmedtobetheactualcostindicatinghowitis arrivedatwithreferencetothefiguresintheprecedingcolumns)transferred toCol.6PartA 


2 


IIkuva] 


6481‘IGVHXVSIVN286L ILAVW:VIONIQOELLLAZVOAHL896 


Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 969 


I declare that the best of my knowledge and belief the information glven in the 
above statements in Parts I, II , III, IV , IVA , V , VI, VIA and VII of his Return is 
correct and complete , tha the amount total income and total world income and other 
particulars shown are truly stated and relate to the year ended . . . . . . . . . 
and that no other income accrued or arose or was received by the company during 
the said year and that the company had during the said year had no other sources 
of income. 
I further declare that the company was Resident and ordinarily resident 

Not resident 
in the taxable territories during the previous year for which the Return is made . 
Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Signature. . . . . . 
Address . . . . . . . . . 

* Status . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
* NOIE V . — The declaration shall be signed by the Principal Officer of the 
Company 
THE SIGNATORY SHOULD SATISFY HIMSELF THAT THE RETURN IS COR 
RECT AND COMPLETE IN EVERY RESPECT BEFORE SIGNING THE VERIFI 

CATION , 


[No. 34 ] 


New Delhi, the 29th April 1957 · 


S . R . O . 1443.- — The following draft of certain further amendments in the Indian 
Income- tax Rules 1922 , which the Central Board of Revenue propose to make in 
exercise of powers conferred by -section ( 1) of section 59 of the Indian Income- tax 
Act , 1922 ( XI (of 1922) is published as required by sub - section ( 4 ) of the said sec 
tion for information of persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration after the 25th of May 1957. 


2 . Any suggestion which may be received from any person with respect to the 
Bald draft before the date specified above , will be considered by the said Board . 


Draft Amendment 
The following shall be substituted for Rule 14 of Indian Income- tax Rules , 1922 . 

11. The certificate to be furnished by the Principal Officer of a Company under 
Section 20 shall be in the following form : 

I. In cases where the dividends declared in respect of a year of account have 
been paid wholly out of the profits of the year . 
NAME OF COMPANY . . . . . . . 
ADDRESS OF COMPANY . . . . . . . . 

Date : 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Warrant for Rs. . 

.. .. (in words and figures or , if the 
certificate , is crossed by an entry in words stating that the amount of dividend 19 
under next multiple of Rs. 50 / - above that amount, in figures only ) 
being dividend 

at the rate Rs. .. .... .. . .....(Please see tootnote 1) 
dividend and bonus 
( in words and figures ) per share for the period from 


the . . . . .: 


during the year ending on 

( foot note 2 ) on ... .... 
day of 19 
shares in the company during the said period . 

on . .. .......... 19 (date ) in the name of ....... . 
This dividend was declared at the .. .. . ... . .... (Foot note 3 ) 
meeting held on the 

. .. .. .. .. . ... . to consider the accounts of 
the company for the year ending 


... 19 


970 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[ PART II 


I /We certify 

1. that the total amount of dividends declared at the aforesaid meeting was 
Rs., . . . . . . - .- . - n n , 

2 . that the details of the profits and gains of the Company for the aforesaid 
financial year are as under : 

( a ) Amount not liable to be included in the total income of the company for 
income-tax purposes is 
(1 ) representing allowances due in the computation of income under the 

Income- tax Act in excess of the provision , if any , made in the com 

pany s accounts . ( Footnote 4 ) . 
( b ) other amounts exempt from income- tax . ( Footnote 5 ) . 
(b ) amount liable to be included in total income for Income- tax purposes but 
on which income- tax is not payable , viz ., 
( i) amount on which income-tax or agricultural income- tax was paid or is 

payable in Pakistan . 
( ii ) other amounts exempt from income- tax. ( Footnote 6 ) . 
( c ) amount liable to be included in total income on which income- tax . is 

payable . 
(d ) total profits and gains. 

( e ) percentage of taxable profits to total profits [ percentage of entry ( c ) to 
entry (d ) ]. 
3 . that the percentage stated in paragraph 2 ( e ) therefore represents the 

percentage of the said dividend which has come out of taxable 

profits . 
4 . that income- tax on the profits and gains of the company chargeable to 

Income- tax [ item ( c ) of paragraph ( 2 ) ] has been /will be paid by 
me / us to the Government of India , 

Signature : . . . 
Date: . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
For , . . . . . . . . . 

. .. Ltd . 


( TO BE SIGNED BY THE CLAIMANT) 


I hereby certify that the dividend above mentioned relate to shares which were 
my own property at the time when the dividend was declared , during the period 
from . . . . . . . . . . . . . . to . . . . . . / on . . . . . . ( date ) and were in the possession of. . . . . . 

Signature : 

Date : . . . . . . . 
FOOTNOTE : 
1 . Where tax is deducted by the company, give the gross amount of dividend , 

the tax deducted and the nct dividend paid . 
2. Here enter the No. and description of the shares. 
3. Here enter the No. and nature of the meeting . 
4 . Here must be entered the allowances due or received in the income- tax 
assegsment for the relevant years such as depreciation allowance , 

development rebate, etc ., in excess of the amount, if any, provided 

therefor in the company s accounts for the relevant year . 
5 . Here exempt incomes such as agricultural income, capital gains made 

during the years 1st April 1948 to 31st March 1956 should be shown . 
6 . Here incomes exempted under sec. 15C of the Act, tax - free interest on 

securities should be shown . 


SEC. 87 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , MAY 11, 1967 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 971 


II. In cases where the dividends declared in respect of a year of account have 
been paid partly out of the profits of that year, and partly out of the accumulated 
profit or reserves of earlier years, or wholly out of such accumulated profits or 
reserves 

(NAME OF COMPANY ) . . 
(ADDRESS OF COMPANY ) 

Date : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Warant for Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . ( In words and figures or , if the certificate 18 
crossed by an entry in words stating that the amount of dividend is under the 
next multiple of Rs. 50 / - above that amount in figures only ) being dividend / 
dividend and bonus at the rate of Rs. ( F . N , 1 ) ( in words and figures ) per 
share for the period from during the year ending . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . on ( Foot 
note 2 ) / on the . . . . . . . . . . . . day of. . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . 
shares in this company during the said period ... .. .. ... .. .. .. ... . . .. .. ... 19 (date ) 

on . ... ... ........ 19 (date ) 
in the name of . . . . . . 

This dividend was declared at the ( Footnote 3 ) meeting held on the . . . . 
19 . . . . . . . . ... . . to consider the accounts of the company for the year ending . . . . . . 
I /We certify 


1. that the total amount of dividends declared at the aforesaid meeting was 
Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .made of 


Ar 


(i) Rs. . . . ... . . . out of the profits of the year ending . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and / or 
( ii ) Rs . ( Footnote 4 ) out of the reserves formed out of the profits or 
accumulated profits of the earlier 

Y ear ending . . . . . . . . . . . 
Y ear ending. . . . . . 

Y ear ending . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
2 . that the details of the profits and gains of the Company for the financial year 

15 -piragcaphs (i) and (ii) of paragrph 1 of this certificate are as under : 


Profits and galas of the 

carller financial years 


Profits 
and 
gains 
of the 
financial - 

years 
ending 


Year 
ending 


Year 
ending 


Year 
ending 


( a ) Amount not liable to be included in the total 

income of the company for incometax purposes 
is : 
(1) representing allowances due in the com 

putation of Income under the I, T . Act in 
excess of the provision , if any, made in the 
Company s accounts . 

(Footnote 5). 
(17) other amounts exempt from Income-tax . 

(Foot -note 6 ) 
(6 ) Amount liable to be included in total income 

for I . T . purposes but on which Income 
tax is not payable , viz , 
O amount on which Income-tax or agri 
cultural income-tax was paid or is payablo 

in Paldstạn . 
(it) other amounts exempt from Income -tax, 

( Foot-bote 7 ) 


972 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[PART II 


3 


4 


(c ) Amount Llable to bo included in total income 

on which income- tax is payable , 
(d ) Total profits and gains . 
( 8) Percentage of taxablo profits to total profits 

(percontage of entry ( c) to entry (d ) . 
) Amounts appropriated out of the profits for 

declaring the dividends of which this dividend 

forms a part (as per para I above ). 
( 8 ) Taxable profits included in the amount of 

the dividends stated at ( ) (i.e , the percentage 
stated at ( ) of the dividend amount at ( /) . 


( 1 ) Sum total of the taxable profits of all tho 

relevant accounting years included in the amount 
of the dividende declared at the said mcet 
ing . 


3 . that as stated in paragraph 2 ( h ) , the taxable proflts of the company utilis 
ed by the company for declaring dividends of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . at the said meet 
ing, amount to Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . or . . . . . . . . . . percentage of the said dividends. 

4 . that Incometax on the profits and gains of the company chargeable to in 
come tax item (c ) of paragraph ( 2 ) has been / will be paid by me / us to the Gov 
ernment of India . 


Signature : . .. . .. . . .. . 
Date : . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. .. . . . . . . .. . . . 

For . .. .. . .. . . ..... . .... . . . .. .. ...... . .. . ... ..Ltd 
( TO BE SIGNED BY THE CLAIMANT) 
I hereby certify that the dividend above mentioned relates to shares which 
were my own property at the time when the dividend was declared / during the 
period from . . . . . . . . to . . . . . . . . . . . . / on . . . . . . . . . . . . ( date ) and were in the 
possession of . . . . . . . . 

Signature : . . . . . . . 
Date : 

. . . . . . . . . . . ..... . 
FOOTNOTE : 
1 .. Where tax is deducted by the Company , give the gross amount of divi 

dend , the tax deducted and the net dividend paid . 
2 . Here enter the No. and description of the share . 
3. Here enter the Number and the nature of the meeting , 
4 . For the allocation to different accounting yeats of funds utilised by the 

company for distribution of dividends, the total dividends should first 
be allocated to the amount appropriated therefor fromthe profits 
and gains of the accounting year in respect of which the dividend is 
declared, and the balance , if any , should be deemed to have come 
out of the whole or such portion of the undistributed profits (reseryes 
and accumulated proflts ) of one or more years immediately preced 
ing that year of account as would be just sufficient to cover the 

amount in excess . 
5 . Here must be entered the allowances due or received in the Income 

tax assessment for the relevant years such as depreciation allow 
ance, development rebate , etc . in excess of the amount, tf any , pro 

vided therefor in the company s accounts for the relevant year, 
6 . Here exempt incomes such as agricultural income, capital gains made 

during the years 1 - 4 - 1948 to 31 - 3 - 1956 should be shown , 
7. Here incomes exempted under Section 15C of the Act, tax - free interest 

on securities should be shown . 


Src, 37 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1019 yea 


NOTE . - In the case of Interim dividends, Insert the word " Interim " before the 

word dividend wherever it occurs in the form of the warrant. G 
such a case , the paragraphs 1 and 2 of the certificate need not be 
filled in but when the final dividend is declared the certificate should 
cover the necessary information regarding the interim dividend also . 

[ No. 40.1 
N . H . NAQVI, Socy. 


INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 29th April 1957 
S . R .O . 1444. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (2 ) of section 
6 of the Indian Income- tax Act , 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) and in supersession of its notif 
cation S . R . O . 912 (No. 29 - Income- tax dated the 10th April, 1956 ) the Central Board 
of Revenue hereby directs that Shri S . P . Jain , a Commissioner of Income- tax , 
shall perform all the functions of a Commissioner of Incomertax in respect of such 
areas or of such persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of 
incomes or of such cases or classes of cases as were comprised in the States of 
Bihar and Orissa on 31st October 1956 . 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons or 
of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Bord of Revenue to 
any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him . 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any Income- tar 
Authority outside his jurisdictional area . 

While exercising the said functions the said Shri Jain shall be designated as 
Commissioner of Income- tax , Patna . 

This notification shall be deemed to have taken effect from the after noon of 
the 29th day of March , 1937 . 

Explanatory Note 
( This note does not form a part of the amendments but is intended to be merely 
clarificatory ]. 

The atnendment have become necessary on account of a change in the 
Incumbent of the post of the Commissioner of Income- tax . 

[ No . 36 (55 / 1/ 57 -IT .) 
S . R .O . 1945 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
5 of the Indian Income- tax Act , 1922 (11 of 1922 ) , and in supersession of its noti 
fication S . R . O . 910 (No. 27 - Income- tax dated the 10th April 1956 ) the Central Board 
of Revenue hereby directs that Shri J , P . Singh , a Commissioner of Income- tax , 
shall perform all the functions of a Commissioner of Income tax in respect of such 
areas or of such persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of in 
comes or of such cases or classes of cases as were comprised in the State of Madras 
except the area known as Fort Cochin in the Malabar District on 31st October 
1956 . 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons or 
of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him . 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any Income- tax Autho 
Tity outside his jurisdictional area. 

While exercising the said functions the said Shri Singh shall be designated as 
Commissioner of Income- tax , Madras , 

This notification shall be deemed to have taken effect from the forenoon of the 
11th day of April, 1957. 

Explanatory Note 
[ This note does not form a part of the amendments but is intended to be merely 
clarificatory ] . 

The amendments have become necessary on account of a change in the incum 
bent of the post of the Commissioner of Income- tax , 

[No. 37 ( 56 / 1/57- IT .] 


9 , 4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


" PART II 


S . R . O . 1446 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
5 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) and in supersession of its noti 
fication S . R . O . 972 (No. 35 - Income- tax dated the 20th April 1950 ) the Central Board 
of Revenue hereby directs that Shri Pyarelal Aggarwal, a Commissioner of Income 
tax , shall perform all the functions of a Commissioner of Income- tax in respect of 
such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of 
incomes or of such cases or classes of cases as were comprised in the States of 
Uttar Pradesh and Vindhya Pradesh on 31st October 1958 . 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons or 
of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him . 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such per 
sons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any Income- tax Authority 
outside his jurisdictional area . 

While exercising the said functions the said Shri Aggarwal shall be designated 
as Commissioner of Income- tax , Lucknow . 

This notification shall be deemed to have taken effect from the fore noon of the 
24th day of April 1957. 

Explanatory Note 
[ This note does not form a part of the amendment but is intended to be 
clarificatory ] 

The amendment have become necessary on account of a change in the incum 
bent of the post of the Commissioner of Income - tax . 

[No. 38 (55 / 1 /57 -IT ). ) 
New Delhi, the 1st May 1957 
Ş . R . O . 1947.- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 2 ) of section 
5 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922 ), and in partial modlication o1 
all previous notifications on the subject, the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that with effect from 1st May , 1957, Shri V . V . Subramanian , a Commis 
sioner of Income - tex , shall perform all the functions of Commissioner of Income 
tax in respect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or such incomes 
or classes of Incomes or such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the In 
come- tex Circles , Wards or districts in the State of Assam and the Union Territory 
of Manipur and Tripura : 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons or 
of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him : 

Provided further that he shall not pertorm his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any income- tax 
Authority outside his jurisdictional area . 

While performing the said functions the said Shri V . Subramanian shall be 
designated as the Commissioner of Income-tax , Assam Manipur and Tripura with 
headquarters at Calcutta . 

Explanatory Note 
This does not form part of the amendments but is intended to be clarifica 
tory ) ., 

The amendments have been necessitated due to the separation of Assam , Mani 
pur and Tripura charge from the (Central) Calcutta charge. 

No. 41/ 58 / 147 / 56 -IT. 7 
S .R . O . 1448 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 
5 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922 ) , and in partial modification of all 
previous notifications on the subject the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs 
that with effect from 1st May 1957 Shri V . V . Subramanian a Commissioner of 
Income- tax , shall perform all the functions of a Commissioner of Income- tax in 
respect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons, such incomes or 
classes of incomes or of such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the fol 
lowing Income- tax Circles at Calcutta namely : 

CENTRAL CIRCLES I TO XIX . 
Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax authority subordinate to him : 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persong or such caseg as have been or may be assigned to any Income- tax authority 
outside his jurisdiction . 


SEC . 3] | THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1957/VAISAKHA 21, 1879 975 


3 . Midnapur. 


While performing the said functions the said Shri Subramanian shall be desig 
nated as the Commissioner of Income- tax (Central ) Calcutta . 

Explanatory Note 
[ This does not form a part of the amendments but is intended to be clarifica 
tory ] . 

The amendments have been necessitated on account of the separation of the 
(Central ) Calcutta from the Assam , Manipur , Tripura Charge. 

( No. 42 ( 55 / 147 /56 - IT ) . ] 
S . R . O . 1449 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of gection 
5 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) and in partial modification of 
all previous notifications on the subject, the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that with effect from 1st May, 1957: — 
( 1) Shri V . V . Subramanian a Commissioner of Income- tax shall be desig 

nated as Commissioner of Income- tax , West Bengal, and perform all 
the functions of a Commissioner of Income- tax in respect of such areas 
or of such persons or classes of persons or of such Incomes or 
classes of incomes or of such cases or classes of cases as are com 
prised in the Income- tax Circles and Districts in the State of West 

Bengal specifled in column 1 of the table annexed hereto : - 
Shri M . N . Wagh Commissioner of Income- tax shall be designated as 

Commissioner of Income- tax , Calcutta and perform , all the functions 
of a Commissioner of Income- tax in respect of such areas or of such 
persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of incomes 
or of such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the Income- tas 
Circles and Districts in the State of West Bengal, specified in Column 
2 of the table annexed hereto : 

TABL ) . 
West Bengal 

Calcutta 
1 . Companies District I, Calcutta . 
2 . Companies District III, Calcutta . 

1 . Companies District II , Calcutta. 

2 . Companies District IV , Calcutta . 
4 . Special Circle I, Calcutta . 

3 . District III ( 2 ) , Calcutta . 
5 . Refund Circle , Calcutta , 

4 . Special 
6 . Howrah . 

Survey Circle I, 

Calcutta , 
7 . 24 + Parganas . 
8 . Burdwan - Birbhum . 

5 . Special Circle II, Calcutta . 
9. Jalpaiguri- Darjeeling.. 

6. District I ( 1) , Calcutta . 
10 . Special Survey Circle VIII , 
Calcutta . 

7 . Non - companies ( I. T . cum 
11. District VI, Calcutta . 

E . P . T .) District II, Calcutta , 
12 . District III ( I ) , Calcutta , 

8 . District IV ( 1 ) , Calcutta . 
13 . Murshidabad -Nadia . 

9 . District IV ( 3 ) , Calcutta . 
14 . Hoogly . 
15 . Special Survey Circle VI, 10 . Special Survey Circle II 
Calcutta . 

Calcutta . 
16 . Special Survey Circle XI, 
Calcutta . 

11. Special Survey Circle III. 
17. District III - A , Calcutta . 

Calcutta . 
18 . Central Salary Circle , 

12. District V . Calcutta . 
Calcutta . 
19 . Special Survey Circle , VII, 

13. District I ( 2 ) ; Calcutta . 
Calcutta 
20 . Non - Companies ( Income- tax 14 . Special Survey Circle IV 
cum - Excess Profits Tax ) 

Calcutta , 
District I, Calcutta . 
21 . District II ( 2 ) , Calcutta . 

15. Special Survey Circle X , 
22. Foreign Section , Calcutta . 

Calcutta . 
23 . Cooch Behar . 

16 . District V - A , Calcutta . 
24 . West Dinajpur -Malda . 

17 . Railways & Miscellaneous 

• Salaries Circle, Calcutta . 
25. Estate Duty cum - Income- tax 
Circle , Calcutta . 

18 . District IV (2 ), Calcutta . 
26 . Estate Duty cum - Income- tax 19 . District II ( 1 ), Calcutta . 
Circle (Mofussil ) , Calcutta . 

20. Special Survey Circle V , 
27. Estate Duty cum - Income - tax 

Calcutta . 
Circle, Jalpaiguri. 

21. Special Survey Circle IX , 
28 . Purulia - Bankura. . 

Calcutta . 


976 THE GALATE Or INDLA : MA .. 11, 1967 /VALA WHA « l, tiro 


s . . . u 


Provided that they shall also perform their functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of 
Revenue to any Income- tax authority subordinate to them : 

Provided further that they shall not perform their functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any Income- tax autho 
rity outside their jurisdiction . 

Explanatory Note 
[ This does not form a part of the amendments but is intended to be clarifica 
tory ]. 

The amendments have become necessary on account of the revision of the 
Commissioners jurisdiction . 

[ No. 43 /55/ 147 /56 -IT ) 


S . R . O . 1450 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of sec 
tion 5 of the Indian Income - tax Act, 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) and in partial modification 
of all previous notifications on the subject the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that with effect from 1st May 1957 Shri S . P . Jain a Commissioner of In 
come- tax , shall perform all the functions of Commissioner of Income- tax in res 
pect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or such incomes or 
classes of incomes or such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the In 
come- tax Circles Wards or Districts in the States of Bihar and Orissa : 


Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons or 
of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him : 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such per 
sons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any income - tax Authority 
outside his jurisdictional arca . 

While performing the said functions the said Shri Jain shall be designated as 
the Commissioner of Income- tax Bihar and Orissa with headquarters at Patna. 

Explanatory Note 
( This does not form a part of the amendments but is intended to be clarifica 
tory ]. 

The amendments have become necessary due to the change in the Commis 
sioner s designation , 

[No. 44 ( 147 / 55 /56 - IT ) . ] 


S . R . O . 1451. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 2 ) of sec 
tion 5 of the Indian Income - tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) , and in partial modification 
of all previous notifications on the subject the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that with effect from 1st May 1957 Shri Payrelal Aggarwal a Commissioner 
of Income- tax , shall perform all the functions of Commissioner of Income- tax in 
respect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or such incomes or 
classes of incomes or such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the Income 
tax Circles Wards or districts in the State of Uttar Pradesh , 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons or 
of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him . 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such per 
sons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any income tax Authority 
outside his jurisdictional area . 

Wbile performing the said functions the said Shri Aggarwal shall be designa 
ted as the Commissioner of Income- tax Uttar Pradesh with headquarters at Luck 
now . 

Explanatory Note 
[ This does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be clarifica 
tory ] . 

The amendments have been necessitated due to a change in the Commissioner s 
designation . 

[ No . 45 (55 / 147/56 - IT ) . ) 


! Sec. 31 * " |THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 977 


S . R . O . 1452. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of sec 
tion 5 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) and in partial modification 
of all previous notifications on the subject the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that with effect from the 1st May , 1957 Shri S . K . Gupta a Commissioner 
of Income- tax , shall perform all the functions of Commissioner of Income- tax in 
respect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or such incomes or 
classes of incomes or such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the Income 
tax Circles Wards or districts in the State of Rajasthan and the Union Territory 
of Delhi: 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons or 
of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax authority subordinate to him : 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any Income - tax Authority 
outside his jurisdictional area . 

While performing the said functions the said Shri Gupta shall be designated 
as the Commissioner of Income- tax , Delhi and Rajasthan with headquarters at 
New Delhi. 

Explanatory Note 
[ This does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be a clarifica 
tory ). 

The amendments have become necessary due to a change in the Commissioner s 
jurisdiction . 

[No. 46 / 55 / 147 /56 - IT . ] 


S . R . O . 1453. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of sec 
tion 5 of the Indian Income- tax Act , 1922 (XI of 1922 ) and in partial modification 
of all previous notifications on the subject the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that with effect from 1st May 1957 Shri M , E . Rehman a Commissioner of 
Income - tax , shall perform all the functions of Commissioner of Income- tax in res 
pect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or of such 
incomes or classes of incomes or such cases or classes of cases as are comprised 
in the Income tax Circles Wards or Districts in the States of Punjab , Jammu and 
Kashmir and the Union Territory of Himachal Pradesh : 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons or 
of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him : 

Privided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any income- tax Autho 
rity outside his jurisdictional area . 

While performing the said functions the said Shri Rehman shall be designated 
as the Commissioner of Income- tax Punjab , Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal 
Pradesh , with headquarters at Simla . 

Explanatory Note 
[ This does not form a part of the amendments but is intended to be clarifica 
tory ] . 

The amendments have been necessitated due to the change in the Commis 
sioner s designation . 

[No. 47 ( 55 / 147 /56 - IT ). ] 
S . R . O . 1454 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of sec 
tion 5 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) and in partial modification 
of all previous notifications on the subject the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that with effect from 1st May 1957 Shri Raj Singh a Commissioner of In 
come- tax shall perform all the functions of Commissioner of Income- tax in res 
pect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or such incomes or 
classes of incomes or such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the follow 
ing income- tax Circles Wards and Districts namely : 

1 , Rajkot Circle . 
2 . Special Survey Circle II, Rajkot. 
3 . Bhavnagar Circle . 
4 . Jamnagar Circle, 
5 . Surendranagar Circle . 


978 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[ PART II 


6 . Junagadh Circle . 
7 . Amreli Circle . 
8 . Morvi Circle, 
9 . Porbandar Circle . 
10 . Bhuj Circle . 
11. Nasik Circle . 
12 . Jalgaon Circle . 
13 . Dhulia Circle . 
14 . Surat Circlc . 
15 . Navsari Circle . 
16 . Broach Circle . 
17. Nadiad Circle . 
18 . Godhra Circle . 
19 . Baroda Circle . 
20. Special Circle Baroda . 
21. Petlad Circle. 
22 . Mehsana Circle . 
23. Patan Circle . 
24. Circle , I Ahmedabad , 
25 . Circle II, Ahmedabad . 
26 . Circle III, Ahmedabad . 
27 . Special Circle , Ahmedabad . 
28 . Special Circle I , Ahmedabad , 
29. Special Circle IÍ, Ahmedabad . 
30 . Special Survey Circle I, Ahmedabad . 
31. Special Investigation Branch , Ahmedabad , 
32. Kadi Circle . 
33. Palanpur Circle , 
34. E . D . cum I. T . Circle , Ahmedabad . 

35 . E . D . cum I, T . Circle , Baroda. 
36 . E . D . cum I . T . Circle , Surat . 

37 . E . D . cum I. T . Circle, Rajkot . 
Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons or 
of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income-tax Authority subordinate to him : 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any income- tax Autho 
rity outside his jurisdictional area . 

While performing the said functions the said Shri Singh shall be designated 
as the Commissioner of Income- tax Bombay North with headquarters at Ahmeda 
bad . 

Explanatory Note 
[ This does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be merely 
clarificatory ] . 

The amendments have become necessary due to a change in the Commis 
sioner s designation , 

[No. 48 ( 55 / 147 /66- IT ) . ] 


S . R . O . 1455 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of seca 
tion 5 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) and in partial modification 
of all previous notifications on the subject the Central Board of Revenue hereby 

Dar , nevenue hereby 
directs that with effect from 1st May, 1957 Shri V . Krishnamachari a Commissioner 
dironte that with effort from 1st Mov1952 Chrva 
of income- tax , shall perform all the functions of Commissioner of Income - tax in 
respect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or such incomes or 
classes of incomes or such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the follow 
ing Income- tax Circles Wards and Districts namely : 
Central Section I, II, III, IV , V , VI, VII, VIII , IX , X , XI, XII , XIII , XIV 

and Central Circles I - A , I - B , I- C , II - A , II - B , II - C , II - D and II - E at 

Bombay and Central Circle I, II & III at Ahmedabad . 
Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenuo 
to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him : 

Provided further that he shall not pertorm his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any income- tax Authority 
outside his jurisdictional area . 


Sec . 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 970 


While performing the said functions the said Shri Krishnamachari shall be 
designated as the Commissioner of Income- tax ( Central) Bombay with head 
quarters at Bombay . 

Explanatory Note 
[ This does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be merely 
clarificatory ]. 

The amendments have become necessary on account of the separation of the 
Bombay Central charge from the Bombay South charge. 

3 [No. 49 ( 55 / 147/ 56 - IT ). ) . 


S . R . O . 1456 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of sec 
tion 5 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 ( XI of 1922 ) and in partial modification 
of all previous notifications on the subject the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that with effect from 1st May 1957 Shri V . Krishnamachari a Commissioner 
of Income- tax , shall perform all the functions of Commissioner of Income- tax in 
respect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or such incomes or , 
classes of incomes or such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the fol 
lowing Income- tax Circles , Wards and Districts namely : - 

1. All Income- tax Circles and Wards at Poona. 
2 . All Income- tax Wards in South Satara District. 
3 . Satara North District . 
4 . All Income- tax Wards in Kolhapur District. 
5 . All Income- tax Wards in Thana District . 
6 . All Income- tax Wards in Kolaba District. 
7. Ratnagiri District . 
8 . All Income- tax Wards In Sholapur District . 
9 . All Income- tax Wards in Ahmednagar District . 
10. Special Survey Bombay South Circle , Poona 
11 . All Incomc- tax Wards /Circles of Akola District, 
12 . Yeotmal District . 
13 . Amravati District, 
14. Wardha District . 
15 . All Income- tax Wards/ Circles comprising the Districts of Buldhana and 

Chanda . 
16 . All Income- tax Wards/ Circles in Aurangabad District. 
17. All Income- tax Wards/ Circles in Nanded District. 
18 . All Income - tax Wards / Circles comprising the Districts of Parbhani, Bhir 

1 and Usmanabad . 
19. Special Estate Duty - cum - Income- tax Circle, Poona . 
Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him ; 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any income- tax Autho 
rity outside his jurisdictional area. 

While performing the said functions the said Shri Krishnamachari shall be 
designated as the Commissioner of Income- tax Bombay South with headquarters 
at Bombay . 

Explanatory Note 
( This does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be merely 
clarificatory ] . 

The amendments have become necessary due to the separation of the Bombay 
South Charge from the Bombay Central Charge. 

[No. 50 (55 / 147 / 56 - IT ). ] 
S . R . O . 1457 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
5 of the Indian Income- tax Act , 1922 (XI of 1922 ) and in partial modification of 
all previous notifications on the subject, the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that with effect from 1st May , 1957 Shri Syed Noor a Commissioner of 
Income-tax, shall perform all the functions of Commissioner of Insome- tax in 
respect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or such income! 
or classes of Incomes or such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the 
Income- tax Circles , Wards or districts in the State of Madhya Pradesh and the 
districts of Nagpur and Bhandara of the State of Bombay , 


980 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 / VAISAKHA 21, 1879 

BOY/ VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


PART II 


Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him . 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any income-tax 

respect of sucha 
Authority outside his juridistional area , 

While performing the said funcions the sald Shri Syed Noor shall be desig 
nated as the Commissioner of Income-tax , Madhya Pradesh Nagpur and Bhandara 
with headquarters at Nagpur, 

· Explanatory Note 
( This does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be claria 
catory ) . 

The amendments have become necessary due to a change in the Commissioner s 
designation . 

[No. 51 / 55 / 147 / 56 -IT. ] 
S . R . O . 1458. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
5 of the Indian Income- tax Act , 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) and in partial modifcation of 
all previous notifications on the subject, the Cenral Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that with effect from 1st May , 1957, Shri V . Sundara Murthy Mudaliar 
a Commissioner of Income- tax , shall perform all the functions of Commissioner 
of Income-tax in respect of such areas or of such persong or classes of persons or 
such incomes or classes of incomes or such cases or classes of cases as are com 
prised in the Income-tax Circles, Wards or districts in the State of Andhra Pra 
desh , 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of 
Revenue to any Income-tax Authority sub - ordinate to him , 

Provided further that he shall not pertorm his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any income-tax 
Authority outside his juridictional area . 

While performing the said functions the said Shri Mudaliar shall be desi 
nated as the Commissioner of Income-tax , Andhra Pradesh with headqarters at 
Hyderabad 

Explanatory Note 
( This does not form a part of the notification but is intended merely to be 
clarificatory ) . 

The amendments have become necessary due to a change in the Commissioner s 
designation . 

(No. 52 / 55 / 147 / 56 - IT . ] 
S . R . O . 1459. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
-5 of the Indian Income - tax Act, 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) and in partial modifcation of 
all previous notifications on the subject the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that with effect from 1st May , 1957 Shri V , Sundara Murthy Mudaliar a 
Commissioner of Income- tax , shall perform all the functions of Commissioner of 
Income-tax in respect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or 
such incomes or classes of incomes or such cases or classes of cases as are com 
prised in the Income- tax Circles Wards or districts in the State of Mysore. 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of 
Revenue to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him . 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any income tax 
Authority outside his jurisdictional area . 

While performing the said functions the said Shri Mudaliar shall be desig 
nated as the Commissioner of Income- tax Mysore with headquarters at Bangalore . 

Explanatory Note 
( This does not form a part of the amendments but is intended to be merely 
clarifcatory ) . 

The amendments have been necessitated due to the separation of Mysore 
charge from the Kerala charge. 

[NO. 53/ 55 / 147 /56 -IT.] 


Sec, 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 981 


S . R . O . 1460, -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
5 of the Indian Income-tax Act , 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) and in partial modification of 
all previous notifications on the subject , the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that with effect from 1st may , 1957, Shri J. P . Singh a Commissioner of 
Income-tax shall perform all the functions of Commissioner of Income-tax in 
respect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or such incomes 
or classes of incomes or such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the 
Income- tax Circles , Wards or districts in the State of Madras. 


Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him . 


Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigsed to any income- tax 
Authority outside his jurisdictional area . 


While performing the said functions the said Shri Singh shall be designated as 
the Commissioner of Income- tax , Madras with headquarters at Madras , 


Explanatory Note 
( This does not form a part of the amendments but is intended to be clarif 
catory .) 

The amendments have become necessary due to a change in the Commissioner s 
designation . 

[No. 54 / 55 / 147 / 56 -IT .] 


S . R . O . 1461. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of 
section 5 of the Indian Income- tax Act , 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) and in partial modi 
fication of all previous notifications on the subject, the Central Board of 
Revenue hereby directs that with effect from 1st May , 1957, Shri V . Sundara 
Murthy Mudaliar , a Commissioner of Income- tax , shall perform all the func 
tions of Commissioner of Income- tax in respect of such areas or of such persons 
or classes of persons or such incomes or classes of incomes or such cases or 
classes of cases as are comprised in the Income tax circles , wards or districts 
in the State of Kerala . 


Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of 
Revenue to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him . 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any incomc - tax 
Authority outside his jurisdictional area . 

While performing the said functions the said Shri Mudaliar shall be 
designated as the Commissioner of Income - tax , Kerala with headquarters at 
Bangalore , 

Explanatory Note 


( This does not form a part of the notification but is intended merely to be 
clarificatory ) . 

The amendments have been necessitated due to the separation of Kerala 
charge from the Mysore charge . 

[No. 55 / 55 / 147 /56 -IT.) 


CORRIGENDUM 

INCOME - TAX 
New Delhi, the 29th April 1957 


S . R . O . 1462 . - In the notification of the Central Board of Revenue S . R . O . 1230 
dated 4th April 1957 published in Part II Section 3 of the Gazette of India dated 


902 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 11, 1957/ VAISAKHA 21 , 1879 


PART II 


the 20th April 1957 for the existing entires in Columns I and II of the table annex 
ed thereto , the following shall be substituted , namely : 


IT 


Commissioner of Income tax Bombay City I 


Companics Circle I (All Sections) 
Companies Circle II (All Sections ) 
Companies Circle III (6 ) 
Companies Circle IV (All Sections) 
Bombay Circle I ( E . P . T .) 
A - 1 Ward 
A - III Ward 
A - IV Ward 
A – V Ward 
Market Ward . 
C - - II Ward 
Salarica Branch I 
Salarics Branch II 
Bombay Refund Circle 
Non - residents Refund Circle 
Foreign Section , 
Income-tax cum Estate Duty Circle . 
Special Survey Circle I 
Special Survey Circle VI 
Special Investigation Branch . 
Eyacuces Circle I 


Commissioner of Income-tax Bombay City II 

Companies Circle III (All Sections except 6 .) 
, A - II Ward . 

B - 1 _ Ward , 
B - - II Ward . 
B - III Ward , 
C - I Ward . 
C - III Ward . 

C - IV Ward 
, D - I Ward . 

D - II Ward . 
. “ E Ward . 

" G " Ward . 
Bombay Suburban District. 
Special Survey Circle II 
Special Survey Circle III 
Special Survey Circle IV 
Special Survey Circle V . 
Evacuec Circle II 


[No. 39 (55 / 1 /57 -IT .] 
B . V . MUNDKUR , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 30th April , 1957 
8 . R . O . 1463 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 12 of the 
Cotton Ginning and Pressing Factories Act, 1925 ( 12 of 1925 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby makes the following further amendment in the Indian Cotton 
Ginning and Pressing Factories Rules , 1925 , namely : 

In rule 4 of the Said rules, 

( 1 ) In sub - rule ( 1 ) , the following sentence shall be added at the end, 
namely : - - 
" The number denoting the factory shall follow the letter or letters denot 

ing the state ." 
( 2 ) for sub - rule ( 2 ) , the following sub - rule shall be substituted, namely : 

" The letters denoting the states shall be as follows: 
For presses situated in the state of Andhra Pradesh -- A .P . 
For presses situated in the State of Assam an A . 
For presses situated in the state of Bihar - B . 
For presses situated in the state of Bombay - By . 
For presses situated in the state of Jammu & Kashmir - JK . 
For presses situated in the state of Kerala – K . 
For presses situated in the state of Madhya Pradesh 
For presses situated in the state of Madras - M . 
For presses situated in the state of Mysore - MY .. 
For presses situated in the state of Orissa - 0 . 
For presses situated in the state of Punjab - P . 
For presses situated in the state of Rajasthan - R . 
For presses situated in the state of Uttar Pradesh - U , P . 
For presses situated in the state of W . Bengal - W . B . 

UNION TERRITORIES 
For presses situated in the state of Delhi - D . 
For presses situated in the state of Himachal Pradesh - H . P . 
For presses situated in the state of Manipur — MR . 
For presses situated in the state of Tripura - T . 
For presses situated in the state of Andaman & Nicobar Islands — AN ." 


M . P . 


pura e Nicobar Islands . . (A )/57.) 


V . V , NENE , Under Secy . 


SEC . 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1987 /VAISAKHA 21, 18 ,0 983 


New Delhi, the 6th May 1957 
S . R . O . 1464 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( b ) of sub 
section ( 2 ) of section 6 of the Forward Contracts ( Regulation ) Act, 1952 ( 74 of 
1952 ), read with Article 64 of the Articles of Association of the Spices and Oilgeeds 
Exchange Ltd ., Sangli (hereinafter referred to as the Exchange ) , and in super 
session of Notifications Nos, S . R . O . 1200 and S . R . O . 2839 , dated the 21st May 1956 
and the 26th November , 1956 , the Central Government hereby appoints each of 
the persons specified in column ( 2 ) of the table annexed hereto on the Board of 
Directors of the Exchange to represent interests specified in the corresponding 
entry in column ( 3 ) of the table . 


TABLE 


S . No. 


Name 


Interest represented 


I. Shri M , W . Chemburkar , M . Com ., Research Officer, 

Forward Markets Commission , Bombay . 


Central Government . 


Lite M . ROSungli. Professor of Eco 


2 . Shri N . K . Kulkarni, Professor of Economics, Willing - ) Interest not directly represented 
don College, Sangli , 

through membership of the 
3 . Sh . M . K . Gupte, GeneralManager , The Sangli Bank Exchange. 
4 . Shri Vasantrao B . Patil, Chairman , Agricultural Produce 

Market Committee , Sangli . 
- - - 

[No . 45- Exp. (8) /68- TMP.] 
T. S . KUNCHITHAPATHAM , Under Secy. 


MERCHANDISE MARKS 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1957 
S .R . O . 1465 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
12 - A of the Indian Merchandise Marks Act, 1889 (4 of 1889 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby makes the following amendments in the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Consumer Industries No. S . R .O . 
2290 , dated the 6th October , 1956 , the same having been previously published as 
required by sub -section ( 4 ) of the said section , namely : 
In the said notification 
( i ) the words and figures " In relation to Item 13 of the schedule appended 

thereto , with effect from the 15th day of October , 1957, and in relation 

to other items of the said schedule " shall be omitted ; 
( ii ) for paragraph 5 the following paragraph shall be substituted , namely ; 
, " 5 . In regard to item 24 of the schedule , the inscription to be applied 

shall be container made in India " , and 
( ill) In the schedule serial No. 13 and the corresponding entries relating 

thereto in columns 2 and 3 shall be omitted and serial numbers 14 to 
33 shall respectively be renumbered as serial numbers 13 to 32. 

[F . No. 3 (49 ) - TMP (MM ) / 54.] 

B . R . VOHRA , Dy. Secy 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th May 1957 
S . R . O . 1466 / IDRA / 6 / 10 /Am . ( 1 ) . - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 6 of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 ( 65 of 
1951 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri B . Maitra , Director, Messrs . 


984 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


SPART II 


Calcutta Chemical Co. Ltd ., 35 , Panditia Road, Calcutta , as a member of the De 
velopment Council established by the Order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Heavy Industries S . R . O . No . 359 / IDRA / 6 / 10 , dated the 25th March , 
1957, for the scheduled industry engaged in the manufacture and production of 
Heavy Chemicals ( Alkalis ) , and directs that the following amendment shall be 
made in the said Order , namely : 
In paragraph 1 of the said Order under the category of members " being 

persons who in the opinion of the Central Government are capable 
of representing the interests of consumers of goods manufactured or 
produced by the said scheduled industry " after entry No. 13 
relating to Shri S . P . Ogale , the following entry shall be inserted , 

namely : 
" 14 . Shri B . Maitra , Director , Calcutta Chemical Co. Ltd ., 35 , Panditia 
Road, Calcutta - 29." 

[No. 5 ( 9 ) IA ( II ) ( G ) / 57. ) 


S . R . O . 1467 / IDRA / 6 / 3 /Am , (2 ) . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 6 of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 ( 65 of 1951) , 
the Central Government hereby appoints Dr, D . R . Malhotra , C / o Messrs . 
Sepulchre Bros. ( India ) Lid . Taj Building , Dadabhai Naoroji Road , Fort, 
Bombay - 1 , as a member of the Development Council established by the Order 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Heavy Industries No. S . R . O . 
79 / IDRA / 6 / 3 , dated the 5th January 1957, for the scheduled industry engaged 
in the manufacture and production of Non - ferrous metals including alloys (and 
semi-manufactures thereof ), and directs that the following amendment shall be 
made in the said Order ; namely : 
In paragraph 1 of the said Order under the category of members " being 

persons who in the opinion of the Central Government have special 
knowledge of matters relating to the technical or other aspects of 
the said scheduled industry " after entry No. 11A relating to Shri 

K . N . Kaul, the following entry shall be inserted , namely : – 
" 11B . Dr. D . R . Malhotra, C / O M / S Scpulchre Bros . (India ) Ltd ., Taj 
Building , Dadabhai Naoroji Road , Fort, Bombay - 1 . 

[No. 5 ( 23 ) IA (II) (G ) /56. ] 
B . B . NAG , Under Secy . 


(Department of Commerce & Light Industries ) 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1937 
S . R . O . 1468 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b ) of sub 
section ( 3 ) of section 4 of the Central Silk Board Act, 1948 (61 of 1948 ) , the 
Central Government hereby nominates Shri C . K . Srinivasan , Under Secretary 
to the Government of India , Ministry of Finance, to serve on the Central Silk 
Board vice Shri Ç . S . Menon and makes the following amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry No. S . R . O . 784 , dated the 7th April , 1955 , namely : 

In the said notification for the entry relating to serial No. 1 , the following 
entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" 1. Shri C . K . Srinivasan , Under Secretary to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Finance , Bombay " . 

[No. 22 / 1 / 55 / HS ( 2 ) .] 
P . J. MENON , Under Sely . 


(Department of Heavy Industries) 

New Delhi, the 30th April 1957 
S . R . O . 1469 / IDRA /29B / 5 / 87 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( 1) of Section 29 - B of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 
1951 (85 of 1961) , the Central Government hereby exempts from the operation of 


ISL 


= 


= 


Ww. 1 . . . . - 4. 3 Vi. IUL . , 111 11, 1 Jul , 2 . . . . 

, 

T29R 
Sections 10 , 10 - A , 11 , 11 - A , 12 , 13 and 14 of the said Act and the Rules made there . 
under , all industrial undertakings pertaining to the scheduled industry specifed 
below , other than undertakings which are engaged in the manufacture or produc 
tion of : 

( 1 ) Biscuits 
( 2 ) Confectionery 
( 3 ) Glucose 
( 4 ) Chocolate and Cocoa powder, and 
( 5 ) Aerated waters . 

Name of Scheduled Industry 
The scheduled industry relating to processed foods falling under “ ( 5 ) Other 
Processca Foods" under the heading " 27 . Food Processing Industries " in the first 
Schedule to the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951. 

[No. 6 ( 3 ) / IA / GI/57. ] 
S. ANANTAKRISHNAN , Dy . Secy . 


( Department of Heavy Industries ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1957 
S . R . O . 1470 / IDRA / 25 / 17 / 57 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 25 of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 
1951 (65 of 1951) and in supersession of the order of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. $ . R . O . 3252, dated the 14th 
October , 1954 , the Central Government hereby directs that the powers exercis 
able by it under section 18G of the said Act, shall, in relation to the control 
of supply , distribution and price of cement in the State of Mysore, be exercis 
able also by the State Government of Mysore, subject to the conditions that: 
( 1 ) any order proposed to be issued by the State Government shall 

receive prior concurrence of the Central Government, and 
( 2 ) no order made by the State Government in the exercise of the 

powers so delegated shall have effect in so far as such order is 
repugnant, to any order made by the Central Government under 
the said section 18G . 

[No. Cem . 15 (7 ) / 57.] 
B . B . NAG , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND CONSUMER INDUSTRIES 


Bombay , the 30th April 1957 


S . R . O . 1471. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by clause 
2 % of the Cotton Textiles ( Control) Order , 1948 , I hereby direct that the follow 
ing further amendment shall be made in the Textile Commissioner s Notification 
No. 80 - Tex . 1 / 48 ( lii ) , dated the 2nd August, 1948, namely : 
In the said Notification , in paragraphs 11 and 12, for the words " the count 

of the yarn " the words " the count and the minimum lea breaking 
strength in lbs. of the yarn " shall be substituted . 

[No, TC ( 3 ) /39 / 48. ] 
(Sd.) V . NANJAPPA , 

Textile Commissioner . 


[No. 8 ( 3 ) - CT ( A ) /55- 17.] 
V . V . NENE , Under Secy , 


MINISTRY OF STEEL , MINES & FUEL 

(Department of Fuel ) 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1957 
S .R .O . 1472. The following draft of an amendment in the Coal Mines 
( Conservation and Safety ) Rules , 1954, which the Central Government proposes 
to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 17 of the Coal Mines 
( Conservation and Safety ) Act, 1952 ( 12 of 1952) is published as required by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section , for the information of all persons likely to 
be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken 
into consideration on or after the 10th June, 1957. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person in 
respect of the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendment 
In the, said rules, after clause ( c ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 15 , the following 
clause shall be inserted , namely : -- 
“ ( d ) In Alling up vacancies by direct recruitment or by promotion , the 

Board shall follow the principles adopted , and the rules followed , by 
the Government of India in regard to posts under the Government 
for securing reservation or representation to members of the 
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other minorities " , 

[ No. C5-5 (4 )/ 57. ] 
S . R . O . 1473 . — The following draft of certain amendments in the Coal Mines 
(Conservation and Safety ) Rules, 1954, which the Central Government proposes 
to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 17 of the Coal Mines 
( Conservation and Safety ) Act, 1952 ( 12 of 1952 ) , is published as required by 
sub -section ( 1 ) of the said section , for the information of all persons likely to 
by affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be 
taken into consideration on or after the 10th June, 1957 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person in 
respect of the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Governinent. 

Draft Amendment 
In rule 15 of the said rules , in sub - rule ( 1 ) - 

( 1) the existing proviso to clause ( a ) shall be omitted ; 
( 2 ) after clause ( b ), the following clauses shall be inserted , namely — 
" ( c ) The Board shall have powers to create -- 
( i) posts the maximum salary of which does not exceed Ayo 

hundred rupees per mensem ; 
( 11) temporary posts corresponding to Class II posts of Gazetted 

Officers of the Central Government, provided that the duration 

of such posts does not exceed two years , 
( d ) No post which is not covered by clause ( c ) shall be created by the 

Board except with the previous sanction of the Central 
Government. 

[ No. 05 - 1 ( 15 ) / 56 . ] 
S . R . SUNDARAM , Under secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 30th April 1957 
S . R . O . 1474 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the Fruit Products Order, 1955, namely : 

In the said Order 
1 . in sub - clause ( 2 ) of clause 5 – 

(a ) for item (h ) ( iii ), the following item shall be substituted , namely : - - 
" (iii) tomato ketchup , tomato sauce and any other sauca ." ; 


Suc . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1967 / VAISAKHA 21, 1879 987 


(b ) In Item (e ) (1), after the words " juices and pulps" , the words " including 

tomato juice " shall be inserted ; 
2 . in sub -clause ( 1) of clause 11, for the words " ten percentum " , the worda 
eventy Ave percentum " shalį be substituted ; 
3 . In the Second Schedule 
(1) In " Part VI - SPECIFICATIONS FOR JAMS AND FRUITS CHEESE " , for 

the headings in the fourth and fifth columns and the entrics there 
under , the following hegdings and entries shall respectively be 

substituted , namely : 
“ Minimum percentage of soluble solids in the final 

product weight over weight. 
68 

Special characteristics. 
The finished products 
shall have a Armgel 

consistency" ; 
( ii ), in " Part XIV . - SAECIFICATIONS FOR BREWED AND SYNTHETIC 

VINEGAR " , in the entry in fourth column headed " General charac 
teristics " , for the words " nig nitrogen " , the word " nitrogen shall be 

substltuted ; 
(Ili ) in Part XX , after item 2 (d ), the following item shall be inserted , 

namely : — 
" ( e ) Where any permitted preservative and / or colouring agent other 
than natural colour is added , a statement to the effect that it contains 
permitted preservative and / or colouring agent other than · natural 

colour ; 
tiv ) for Part XXII and the entries therein , the following Part and entries 

shall be substituted , namely : 
" PART XXII - LIST OF PERMISSIBLE HARMLESS FOOD 

COLOURS ” . 
(1) Natural colouring matter which may be used : 

The following natural colouring principles whether isolated from 
natural colours or produced synthetically may be used in or 

upon any article of food : 
( a ) Cochineal or Carmine 
( b ) Carotin and Carotenoids 
( c ) Chlorophyll 
( d ) Lactoflavin 
( e ) Caramel 
( 1 ) Annatto 
( 8 ) Ratanjot 
( h ) Saffron 
( 1) Curcumin 
( 2 ) Coal tar dyes which may be used : 
No coal tar dyes or a mixture thereof except following shall be used in 

fruit products . 
Chtour Common name 

Colour 

Chemical Class 
Index 


L. Red 


Azo 


692 


z 


Yellow 


Ponceau 4 R 

185 
Carmoisine 

179 
Red 6B 

57 
Red FB 

225 
Acid Magenta II 
Fast Red E 

182 
Tartrazine 

640 
Sunset Yellow FCF 
Bluc VRS 

672 
Indigo Carmine 

II 80 
Brilliant Black 

BN 
* F .D . & C . Index No. 6 


Triyhenylmethanc 
Azo 
Fyrazolone 
Azo 
Triphenylmethane 
Indigoid 
Bisazo 


3. 


Blue 


4. 


Black 


988 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 17, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[PART I 


40 


( 3 ) Dyes when used in fruit products shall be pure and free from all 

harmful impurities. 
The maximum limit of any permitted coal tar colours or mixture of 

permitted coal tar colours which may be added to any fruit producta 
shall not exceed 1 .5 grains per pound of the final fruit products for 

consumption ; 
( v ) in the list below " Part XXIII – LIMITS FOR PERMITTED PRESERVA 

TIVE IN FRUIT PRODUCTS " , for the entries against items 4 and 

the following entries shall be substituted , namely : 
4 Squashes , crushes fruitsyrups ) Sulphurdioxide 

350 
cordials fruitjuices and barley Ś 

or 
watcrs 

Benjoic acid 

600 
5 Jani marmalade preserve and Sulphurdioxide 
fruit jelly 

01 
Benzoic acid 

200 

[ No, F . 4 - 13 / 67-AN . T 
S . R . O . 1476 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricul 
bural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act 1937, the Central Government hereby 
directs that the following further amendments shall be made in the Creamery " 
Butter Grading and Marking Rules, 1941, the same having been previously pub 
lished as required by the said section . 

Amendments 
In scheduled I appended to the said rules, in the third column headed " Geno 
ral Characteristics " . 
(1) in clause ( d ), for the words " only harmless colouring matter may be 

added " , the words " only Annatto may be used as a colouring matter 

shall be substituted . 
( u ) in clause (e ), for the figures " 18 " the figures " 18 " shall be substituted . 

[No. F . 3- 27 / 50-AN .) 
V . S . NIGAM , Under Sety .. 


( Department of Agriculture ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th May , 1957 
S . R . O . 1476 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) and in supersession of the notification of tho 
Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture No. S . R . O . 1487 . 
dated the 23rd June, 1956 , the Central Government hereby directs that the powon 
conferred on it by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the said Act to provide for mat - . 
tere specified in clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 2 ) thereof shall in the State of Madre 
as altered by the provisions of Part II of the States Rcorganisation Act, 1956 (ST 
of 1956 ) , he exercisablc also by the State Government of Madras subject to tho 
condition that before making any order relating to any matter specified in clatı 
( b ) of the said sub - section ( 2 ) , the State Government shall obtain the prior cog 
currence of the Central Government, 

[No. F .1 - 2/ 57 - C (D ) . } 
M . LAL , Joint Sacs . 


(Department of Food ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 29th April 1957 
S . R . O . 1477 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) and in supersession of its Order S . R . O . No . 
1778 , dated the 6th August , 1956, the Central Government hereby directs that the 


Bc. 3 } 11, EUAU - . 1. . . INDIA : MAY 11, 1981/ VAISAKHA - 1, 1014 19 


powers conferred on it to make orders under Section 3 of the said Act shall, in 
relation to foodstuffs , including edible oilseeds and oils , be exercisable also by the 
Government of the State of West Bengal, subject to the condition that before 
making any order relating to any matter specified in sub - section ( 2 ) of the said 
Section 3 , the State Government shall obtain the concurrence of the Central 
Government. 

[No. 230 ( 14 ) /57- PY .IL.] 
S . N . BHALLA , Dy. Secy. 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE 

( I. C . A .R .) 

New Delhi, the 24th April, 1957 
S . R . O . 1478 . - The following draft of certain further amendments to the Indian 
Central Oilseeds Committee Provident Fund Rules , 1949, which the Central Gov 
ennent proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 17 of 
the Indian Oilseeds Committcc Act , 1946 ( 9 of 1946 ) , is published as required by 
ub - section ( 1 ) of the said section , for the information of all persons likely to be 
affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into 
consideration on or after the 20th May, 1957. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by tho 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendments 
In the said rules 
(i) after clause ( a ) of rule 13 , the following clause shall be inserted , 

namely : 
" (aa ) Notwithstanding any thing contained in clause ( a ) , an advanco 

may also be sanctioned for any other good reason it the necessity 
for such an advance is established to the satisfaction of the Prest 

dent of the Committee." ; 
( il ) after rule 17, the following rule shall be inscrted namely : 
" 17A . All amounts which in the opinion of the Committee have lapsed 

or shall be deemed to have been forfeited , shall be transferred to a 
separate account to be called " The Lapse and Forfeiture Account 
and shall be used and applied by the Committee as a Reserve Fund 
to meet any loss or depreciation of or in the investments for the 
time being of the Fund . Any profilt arising on any of the said 
investments shall be transferred to the Lapse and Forfeiture 
Account. If and when the Committee is of the opinion that the 
amount to the credit of the Lapse and Forfeiture Account is suffi 
cient to meet any possible loss or depreciation of or in the said 
investments , the surplus , if any , may be divided amongst the subs 

cribers in such proportion as the Committee may decide." ; 
( iii) ( a ) existing rule 18 shall be renumbered as sub - rule ( 1 ) of that rule ; 
( b ) in clause ( b ) of the rule as so renumbered , for the words " five years " . 

the words “ three years" shall be substituted ; 
( c ) in the same rule, the following sub - rule shall be added at the end, 

ſ namely : 
" ( 2 ) Any amount deducted under clauses (a ) and ( b ) of sub - rule ( 1 ) 

shall be transferred to " The Lapse and Forfeiture Account and any 
amount deducted under clause ( c ) of that sub - rule shall be paid to 

the Committee or credited to the Fund as the case may be" ; 
iv ) at the end of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 23, the following shall be added , 

namely : 
" The amount, if any , standing to the credit of " The Lapse and Forfeiture 

Account constituted under rule 17 - A shall also be divided amongst 
the subscribers in such proportion as the Committee may decide." 

[No. 5 - 101 / 56 - Com . I. ] 
MOKAND LALL , Under Secy . 


990 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[ PARE DE 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 1st May , 1967 
S . R . O . 1479.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1933 ( 27 of 1933 ) , the Central 
Government, after consultation with the Medical Council of India , hereby makes 
the following further amendment in the Second Schedule to the said Act 
namely : 

In the said Schedule , after the entry relating to Rajasthan , the following entry 
shall be inserted , namely : - - 
"Kerala " 
Travancore M . B . B . S . Bechelor of Medicine and 

M . B . B . S . 
University 

bechelor of Surgery 

( Travancore ) 

[ No. F . 19 - 2 / 57 - M . L ) 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi- 2, the 6th May 1957 
S . R . O . 1480. - In pursuance of the provisions of clause (vi) of sub - section ( 2 ) 
of Section 5 of the Drugs Act , 1940 (XXIII of 1940) , the Central Government here 
by nominates Dr. A . C . Chatterji, Government Analyst , Government of Uttar 
Pradesh , to be a member of the Drugs Technical Advisory Board . 

[No, F .4 -8 / 56 - D . ) 
J. N . SAKSENA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 6th May 1957 
S . R . O . 1481. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - section ( 1 ) and 
clause ( b ) of Sub - section ( 2 ) , of section 3 of the Delhi (Control of Building 
Operations) Act, 1955 (53 of 1955 ) the Central Government hercby nominated 
Shri S , Iftikhar Husain , IA . S ., Deputy Secretary , Ministry of Health as a repre 
sentative of the Central Government from the Ministry of Health for the Delhi 
Development ( Provisional ) Authority in place of Shri A . V . Venkatasubban and 
makes the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Health No. 30 - 5 /55 - LSG , dated the 2nd November , 1935 
namely : 

In the said notification for Serial No. 2 the following shall be substituted 
namely : 
2 . Shri S . Iftikhar Husain , I.A . S ., Deputy Secretary (Representative of the 

Central Government from the Ministry of Health ) . 
This notification shall be deemed to have taken effect from the 2nd April 
1957 . 

[No. F . 12 - 62 /57 - L . S .G . ) 

S. MULLICK , Jt. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATION 

( Transport Wing ) 

(PORTS) 
New Delhi, the 29th April, 1957 


S . R . O . 1482 . - The following draft of an amendment to the Port of Kandi. 
( Petroleum ) Rules , 1955 , which the Central Government proposes to make in 
exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 6 of the Indian 
Ports Act 1908 ( 15 of 1908 ) , is published as required by sub - section ( 2 ) of the 
said section for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and 


Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 991 


notice is _hereby given that the draft will be taken into consideration on or after 
the 8th June, 1957. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendment 
For rule 3 of Part IV of the said Rules , the following rule shall be substituted , 
namely : 
" 3 . Dangerous and non - dangerous petrolcum in containers shall not be 

transported at the same time on a cargo boat unless the containers 
for non - dangerous petroleum are of the type prescribed for danger 
ous petroleum in rule 27 of the Petroleum Rules 1937. In the case 
of dangerous and non - dangerous petroleum being transported at 
the same time on a cargo boat in accordance with the condition 
prescribed above , non - dangerous petroleum shall be treated 29 
dangerous petroleum " . 

[No. 3 -PII (31 ) 57 - PG . ] 
D . A . R . WARRIAR , Under Secy . 


(Department of Transport Transport Wing ) 

( Ponts ) 

New Delhi, the 29th April 1957 
8 . R .O . 1483. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 and Sub - section 
( 2 ) of section 9 of the Bombay Port Trust Act, 1879 ( Bombay Act VI of 1879 ) 
and in partial modification of the Ministry of Transport Notification 
No. 8 . C - PI (6 ) / 57 - B dated the 27th March , 1957 , the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri C . P . Srivastava, Deputy Director General of Shipping, to be a 
member of the Bombay Port Trust Board ( representative of the Mercantile 
Marine Department, Bombay ) in place of Shri P . R . Subramanian , Senior 
Deputy Director General of Shipping. 

[ No. 8.C - PI(6 ) / 56 . ] 
T , S . PARASURAMAN , Dy. Secy . 


( Department of Communloations) 

New Delhi, the 11th May 1957 
S . R . O . 1484 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules for the 
recruitment and training of candidates for the cadre of Wireless Operators in the 
Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department, namely : - 

PART I - PRELIMINARY 
1. Short title. — The rules may be called the Wirless Operators (Recruitment) 
Rules, 1957 . 
2. Definitions. In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires -- 
( a ) " departmental candidate" means a departmental candidate as defined 

in rule 2 ( a ) of the Engineering Supervisors ( Recruitment ) Rules , 
1955 ; 


(b ) " Director -General" means the Director -General of Posts and Tele 

graphs; 
( c ) " outside candidate means & candidate who is not a departmental 

candidate ; 
( d ) " Service " means the service of Wireless Operators of the Indian Posto 

and Telegraphs Department in the unit of recruitment concerned . 


992 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[PART II 


3 . Area of duty . - - Members of the Service shall belong to the cadre of the 
unit of their recruitment and shall normally be liable for duty only within that 
unit . In special circumstances to be decided by the Director -General, however, 
they may be called upon to proceed on duty to any place in India . They shall 
also be liable for fleld service within India in times of war or national emergency , 


NOTE. — A list of units of recruitment, the extent of their jurisdiction and 

recruiting authorities is given in Appendix 1. 


4. Method of recruitment. -- Recruitment to the Service shall be as follows, 
namely : 

( 1 ) 75 Per Cent. by direct recruitment in accordance with Part II ; and 
( 11) 25 Per Cent. by recruitment of departmental candidates through a 

competitive examination held in accordance with Part III ; 
Provided that : --- 
( 1 ) any shortage in recruitment against the quota mentioned in clause ( 1) 

of this rule shall be carried forward to the next selection ; 
( 2 ) if the number of departmental candidates who qualify in the com 

petitive examination is less than the number of vancancies available 
for such candidates , the remaining available vacancies shall be 

added to the quota reserved for outside candidates . 
5 . Roserved vacancies. - Appointments to the Service are subject to the orders 
19gued by the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs , from time 
to time, regarding special representations in the services to specified groups of 
atizens, 

PART II - DIRECT RECRUITMENT 
6 . Qualfloations. A candidate must be 

( a ) a citizen of India, or 
( b ) a subject of Sikkim , or 
( c ) a person who has migrated from areas which now form the territory 

of Pakistan with the intension of permanently settling down in 

India , or 
( d ) a subject of Nepal or of a Portugese or a former French possession in 

India ; 
( e ) persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July , 

1948 , and have ordinarily been resident in India since then ; 
( 1) persons who migrated to India from Pakistan on or after the 19th 

July , 1948 , but before the 30th September , 1948 , and got themselves 

registered as citizens of India within the time allowed ; 
( g ) non - citizens who entered service under the Government of India 

before the commencement of the Constitution , that is, before the 
26th January, 1950 , and who have continued in such service since 

then . 
A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary may be 
considered for selection and may also be provisionally appointed subject to the 
condition that the necessary certificate is eventually obtained from the Govern 
ment of India . 

7 . Special Exemption — when required , No male candidate who has more 
than one wife living or female candidate who has married any person who has 
a wife living , shall be eligible for appointment, unless the Government of India 
after being satisfed that there are special grounds for doing so , exempt any such 
candidate from the operation of this rule . 

8 . Age - A candidate must have attained the age of 17 years and must not 
have attained the age of 24 years on the first day of January of the year in which 
the applications for recruitment are called for . 

Relaxations of the upper age limit will be allowed in accordance with the 
orders of the Government of India on the subject , if any , for the time being in 
force, 
9 . Educational qualifications. A candidate must 
( a ) (1) have passed the Intermediate or an equivalent examination of an 

Indian University with Physics and Mathematics as subjects ; or 


Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 993 


( ii) haye obtained one of the diplomas in Mechanical or Electrical or 

combined Electrical and Mechanical or Radio Engineering des 
cribed in Appendix 3 or those awarded by recognised 

Universities in India ; or 
( iii) have successfully completed the first year s course of the 

three -years degree course (with Physics or Mathematics 
as one of the main subjects ) of the University of Delhi 
and produce a certificate from the Principal of the 
College to the effect that his work and conduct during the year 

had been satisfactory and upto a reasonable standard ; or 
( iv ) have passed the pre - Engineering Examination of the Delhi Uni 

versity with Physics and Mathematics as subjects ; and 
( b ) have passed the Matriculation or Higher examination with Hindi or 

Sanskrit or the regional language of the unit in which he wishes to 
be appointed as one of the subjects . 


10 . Form and contents of application . — ( 1) A notice calling for applications 
shall be published in the principal newspapers circulating in the unit of recruit 
ment. Such notice shall , wherever possible , specify the number of vacancies 
available in the unit concerned . 

( 2 ) Every outside candidate shall submit his application in the prescribed 
form to the recruiting authority specified in Appendix 1 before the date fixed by 
the Director- General and shall indicate the unit in which he wishes to be 
appointed . A candidate can apply to any one recruiting authority specified in 
Appendix 1. 

(3 ) A candidate in Government service shall submit his application through 
the proper channel. 

( 4 ) Every candidate shall pay a fee of Rs. 10 / - . The amount of fee shall be 
deposited into a Post Office and the Post Office receipt shall be submitted with 
the application form , 

11. Acceptance or rejection of applications. — ( 1 ) The recruiting authority 
specified in Appendix 1 shall examine the applications of outside candidates and 
17 it finds that any candidate does not fulfil the conditions laid down in rules 6 
to 10 it shall reject his application . 

( 2 ) The Head of the Circle shall give candidates, whose applications are 
rejected , intimation of such rejection , 

12 . Selection . Subject to the availability of vacancies in each unit, candidates 
shall be selected strictly in the order of merit as indicated in Appendix 2 . 

13 . Medical Examination . — A selected candidate must, before he is deputed 
for training, produce a medical certificate of fitness from a Commissioned Medical 
Officer of the Government or from a Medical Officer in charge of a Civil Station , 
A candidate in Government service who has already been declared fit by the 
appropriate medical authority is exempt from further medical examination . 

14 . Agreement and deposit . — ( 1 ) A selected candidate shall be required before 
the commencement of his training to sign an agreement in the form laid down 
in Appendix 4 to serve Government for a period of 5 years from the date of his 
appointment as Wireless Operator and to deposit a sum of Rs. 50 / - as security 
for the due fulfilment of the terms of the agreement. 

( 2 ) The amount of security must be deposited in a Post Office Savings Bank 
and the secruity deposit account pledged to the authority to which the candidate 
submitted his application for selection in accordance with the Savings Bank 
Rules . The pass book must be submitted to the Divisional Engineer , Telegraphs, 
Training Centre, Jabalpur, who will forward the documents to the Head of the 
Circle for safe custody. 

(3 ) The refund of the security deposit shall be authorised after the candidate 
has completed 5 years of service as Wireless Operator. 
PART III — RECRUITMENT OF DEPARTMENTAL CANDIDATES THROUGH COMPETITVE 

EXAMINATION 
15. Eligibility . - Departmental candidates who have passed the Matriculation 
or an equivalent examination and who have not more than 9 years permanent 
service in their respective grades on the 1st January of the year in which the 


994 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[PART IL 


etbalpur and candidateireless 


examination is held will be eligible to appear for a competitive examination , the 
standard for which shall be the same as mentioned in Appendix B of the 
Engineering Supervisors ( Recruitment ) Rules , 1955 . The examination may be 
held separately or combined with that for recruitment of Departmental candi 
dates for the posts of Engineering Supervisors , according to convenience , 

16 . The maximum limit of 9 years service may be relaxed by the Director 
General at his discretion in special cases, 
NOTE . — Temporary officials who have rendered not less than three years 

continuous service in their respective grades on the 1st day of 
January of the ycar in which the examination is held shall be 
eligible to appear in the competitive examination as departmental 

candidates . 
17. Selection of candidates. — Heads of Circles will select suitable candidates 
from the applications after a scrutiny of their Confidence records. They will have 
full discretion to reject the application of a candidate whose record is unsatis 
factory. Candidates whose applications are rejected shall be duly informed of 
the rejection . 

18 . Filling of vacancies . — Vacancies available for departmental candidates 
shall be filled from amongst the successful candidates in the examination strictly 
according to merit. 

PART IV _ TRAINING AND APPOINTMENT 
19. ( 1) Training.-- A selected candidate shall be given a course of training 
for a period , not exceeding 9 months, at the Telecommunication Training Centre, 
Jabalpur and at the end of every quarter he shall undergo a periodical test : an 
unsuccessful candidate shall be liable to be discharged if he is unlikely to 
become an efficient Wireless Operator at the end of his training period , A 
candidate who has successfully completed the initial course of training , shall be 
given a further practical training of 3 months at a Departmental Wireless 
Station . The period of training may be extended by a period not exceeding 
three months at the discretion of the Divisional Engineer , Telegraphs Training 
Centre, Jabalpur . 

( 2 ) Allowances during training . - A candidate will receive an allowance of 
Rs. 60 / - P , M , during the period of training in the Training Centre and subse 
quent practical training at the Wireless Station . Departmental candidates as well 
as officials of the Posts and Telegraphs Department selected for training under 
these rules will, however, be entitled to the pay and allowances that they would 
have drawn but for their deputation to the training class , or the training 
allowance , whichever is greater . 

20 . Probation and Appointment. - ( a ) On qualifying in the passing out test 
and on successful completion of the practical course at the Departmental Wire 
less Station , candidates will, if reported on as fit to carry out the duties of 
Wireless Operators, be appointed as wireless operators on probation for one year . 

( b ) If , in the opinion of the appointing authority , the work or conduct of a 
person appointed on probation is unsatisfactory , or shows that he is unlikely to 
become an efficient Wireless Operator, the appointing authority may discharge 
him forthwith , or may extend his period of probation by such further period ag . 
the appointing authority may think fit . 

(c ) On the satisfactory , completion of his period of probation , the appointing 
authority may confirm the official in his appointment if a permanent vacancy 
is available . 

( d ) If no action is taken by the appointing authority under sub - rule (b ) or 
sub -rule ( c ) above, the period after the prescribed period of probation shall be 
treated as an engagement from month to month , terminable , on either side, og 
the expiry of one calendar month s notice in writing . 


21 . Signalling test. Every Wireless Operator recruited under these rules shall , 
during the Arst five years of his appointment as Wireless Operator , be required 
to pass annually a signalling test to earn his annual increment of pay. He shall 
also pass the said test in the 10th and 15th year of service and before passing 
the efficiency bar . Wireless Operators who have ualified in the examination for 
promotion to the grade of Wireless Supervisors, and those who quality in the 
" Higher Proficiency Examination will be exempt from these texts . A Wireless 
Operator who fails in the said test will not be eligible to draw an increment / 


SEC, 37 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 9955 


increments until he qualifies . When he qualifies, the increment/ increments 
which has / have been withheld will be granted with effect from the date on 
which he qualifies . The temporary withholding of an increment/ increments 
under this rule will not affect the due date of his next and subsequent annual 
increments . The standard of this test shall be prescribed by the Director 
General. 

APPENDIX 1 

( See rule 3 ) 
Units of recruitment and the extent of their jurisdiction and recruiting 

authorities 


Circle and units for which 

recruitment is to be 


Unit of recruitment 


Authority who will make the 

recruitment 


made 


1. Assam Circle 


. 


. 


2 . West Bengal Circle . 


3 . Bihar Circle . 
4. Madras Circle . 
5 . Bombay Circle , 


. 
. 
. 


. Assam Circle , including N . E . Director of Posts & Tele 
F . A . 

graphs , Assam Circle , 

Shillong. 
. West Bengal Circle and Orissa Postmaster -General, West 

Circle , including the office Bengal Circle , Calcutta . 
of D . E . W ., Calcutta and the 

Telegraph Storcyard . 
Bihar Circle, including Kath - Postmaster -General, Bihar 

mandu Wircless Station , Circle, Patna . 
. Madras , Andhra and Hy- Postmaster-General, Madras 
derabad Circles, 

Circle , Madras . 
Bombay and Central Circles, Postmaster -General, Bombay 

Including the Telecommu - Circle , Bombay . 
nication Training Centre, 

Jabalpur. 
, Punjab , Rajasthan and U . P . Postmaster-Gencral, 
Punjab , Rajasthan and U . P . 

Punjab 
Circles including Himachal Circle , Anbala . 
Pradesh . 


6 . Punjab Circle 


. 


. 


APPENDIX 2 

( See rule 12 ) 
A candidate will be required to submit a certified copy of the marks obtained 
by him in the compulsory subjects at the Intermediate Examination of an Indian 
University with Physics and Mathematics as the subjects or the marks obtained 
in other equivalent examinations referred to in rule 9. 

In the case of a candidate who has successfully completed the first year s 
course of the University of Delhi referred to in item ( iii) of rule 9 ( a ) , the 
marks obtained by him in the examination at the end of the first year s course 
will require attestation by the Principal of the college concerned . 

The selection shall be made strictly on the basis of marks. 

The marks obtained in the compulsory subjects at the Intermediate or equiva 
lent examination referred to in rule 9 will be totalled and the total marks will 
be reduced in such a way that the proportion it bears to the maximum marks 
for those subjects would be the same as the reduced marks bear to the maximum 
of 200 . The following marks will then be added to the marks so reduced to an . 
aggregate of 200 . 
A . - Por higher educational qualification 
A graduate in Science or Arts with Mathematics and/or Physics . . 

15 marks 
A graduate in Enginecring 

. . . 25 markg 
B .Sc. (Hons.), M . A . or M . Sc. in Mathematics or Physics . . 

25 marks 
B . - For Technical qualifications 

C . O . C . Class II In Wireless issued by the Poats and Telegraphs Depart 

ment uplo 1952 and thereafter by the Ministry of Communications . IS marks 
C . O . C . Class I in Wireless issued by the Posts and Telegraphs Department 
upto 1952 and thereafter by the Ministry of Communications , 

25 math 


Posted by the Posto any of Communicatepe 


996 THE GALITE ON INDIA : MAY 11 , 1967/ VAISANHÀ 21, 1019 


14 ART 


In case of any doubt, the decision of the Director -General thereon shall be 
Anal. 
NOTAS 1 . - The details of marks obtained in the Intermediate or cquivalent 

examinations are necessary as only such candidates will be 
entertained for selection as have obtained not less than 40 per 
cent. in Mathematics and Physics and in either of the two 

subjects by the candidates referred to in Rule 9 ( a ) (111 ) . 
2 . The selection of candidates as per qualifications prescribed in the 

appendix shall be made by a departmental selection board cons 
tituted in the unit of recruitment comprising respectively in the 
case of 
( a ) Major Circles 

( 1 ) Head of Circle 
( 2 ) Director of Telegraphs 

( 3 ) Director of Postal Services. 
(b ) Minor Circles 

( 1 ) Head of Circle 
(2 ) Deputy Director of Posts and Telegraphs 
( 3 ) An Officer of the rank of Deputy Director or Divisional 

Engineer of the Circle . 


APPENDIX 3 


( See rule 9 ) 


Particulars of Diploma 


Name of the Institution / 

authority granting / 
awarding the Diploma 


pur. 


I. Electrical Engineer . . . . . Victoria Jubilee Technical Institute, Bombay ; 

Technical College , Dayalbagh , Agra . 
2 . L . E . E . or L . M . E . . . . . . Government School of Technology Diploma 

Examination Board , Madras . 
3 . Mechanical Engineering 

. Technical College, Dayalbagh , Agra . 
4 . Mechanical and Electrical Engineering Government Technical Institute, Gorakhpur, 

(Specialised in Mechanical or Electrical . U . P . Government Technical Institute , 
Engineering ) (Grade A ) . 

Lucknow . 
5 . Mechanical Engineering . . . . Government Engineering School, Nag 
6 . Mchanical or Electrical Engincering . . Kala Bhavan Technical Institute, Baroda. 
7 . Mechanical & Electrical Engineering . College of Engineering and Technology, 

Jadavpur , Bengal. 
8 . Electrical Technology 

Nowrosjee Wadia College , Poona , 
9 . B . E . (Mechanical) . 

, Osmania University , Hyderabad . 
10. Mechanical or Electrical Engineering Mysore University . 
II . Mechanical or Electrical Engineering . Travancore University . 
12 . All- India Electrical Engineering 
13 . Pre - Engineering Course . 

Delhi Polytechnic , 
14 . Electrical and Mechanical Engineering National Institute Engineering, Hoshiar 

pur . 
15 . All India Certificate in Mechanical and · All- India Council for Technical Education , 

Electrical Engineering . 
16 . Electrical and Mechanical Engineering Government Institutes , Gorakhpur, Jhansi and 

Lucknow , provided Diploma holders are 

Matriculates , 
17. Mechanical and Electrical Engincering . Government School of Engineering , Bange 

lore . 
18 . Mechanical and Electrical Enginccring . Muslim University , Aligarh . 
19 . Electrical and Mechanical Engineering , Tirhoot School of Engineering. 
20. Mech , & Automobile Engineering, Electrical Department of Education ( Technical Branch 
Engineering. 

Government of Assam . 


SEC , 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 997 


21. Electrical & Mechanical Engineering . Development ( Industries) Department, 

Government of Bihar , 
22 . Licentiate in Elec. Engineering, Licentiate in Board of Enginecring Education (Depart 
Mech . Engineering . 

ment of Industricy ), Governmenų of Oriysa . 
23. Licentiate in Elec , Engincering , Licentiate in State Council for Engineering and Techrical 
Mech , Engineering . 

Education , Government of West Bengal, 
24. Mechanical Engg ., Electrical Engg., Elec - Department of Technical Education , Gover 

trical Technology , Electrical & Mech . En ment of Bombay . 
gineering Electrical Communication Engi 

neering, Radio Engineering . 
25. Mechanical Enginecring . . , , Registrar of Technical Examinations , Go 

vernment of Madhya Bharat . 
26 . Mechanical Engg., Flectrical Engg . . Madras TechnologicalDiploma Examinations . 

Board , Government of Madras . 
27 . Mechanical Engg., Electrical Engg. . . Central Technical · Examinations Board 

Government of Mysore . 
28 . Licentiate in Mechanical and Electrical Department of Technical Education , Govern 
Engineering, 

ment of Hyderabad 
29. Electrical & Mechanical Engineering, Me- Director of Cottage Industries, Government of 
chanical Engg ., Electrical Engg. 

Uttar Pradesh . 
30 . Licentiate in Mechanical Engineering , Li- Victoria Jubilee Technical Institute , Bombay 
centiatc in Electrical Enginecring . 

(Board of Management). 
31 . Mechanical Engg ., Electrical Engg. . . Andhra Technological Diploma Examinations.. 

Board , Government of Andhra , 


APPENDIX 4 

( See rule 4 ) 
Forma of Agreement for candidates to be trained as Wireless Operators 
This agreement between 

(hereinafter refer 
red to as the Wireless Operators trainee ) in the case of minor acting through his 
guardian Shri 

of the first part , Shri 
( hereinafter referred to as the surety ) of the second part and the President of 
India (hereinafter referred to as the Government) of the third part. 

Whereas the Wireless Operator traincc has agreed to undergo training in the 
Posts and Telegraphs Department and on the successful completion of the same 
to accept employment as a Wireless Operator in that Department, on the terms and 
conditions hereinafter appearing . 

And Whereas the sum of Rs. 50 has been deposited by the Wireless Operator 
traince / on behalf of the Wireless Operator trainee by his guardian as security 
for the due fulfilment of the conditions of this agreement, 

Now these presents witness and it is hereby agreed as follows: - 

I. The Government shall provide training , the nature and duration of which 
shall be determined by the Director -General of Posts and Telegraphs, hereinafter 
referred to as the Director -General, whose decision in this behalt shall be final 
and binding : 

Provided that the Director -General may at any stage without assigning any 
reason , discontinue his training if in his opinion (which shall be final and binding ) . 
the Wireless Operator trainee appears to be unlikely to become an efficient Wire 
less Operator . 
II . The Wireless Operator trainee shall 
( a ) undergo the course of training at the Posts and Telegraphs Training 

Centre , Jabalpur and at any other places selected , from time to time, 

by the Director -General , 
( b ) undergo such training at the said places with due diligence and comply 

with all instructions of all authorised officers in regard to training 

and discipline at the said places, 
( c ) after completion of training accept employment as a Wireless Operator : 

of the Posts and Telegraphs Department for a period upto 5 years , 


# 11 W14.- 11 U # INDIA : MA . 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[ PART IL 


- 


111. ( i ) In case the training of the Wireless Operator trainee is discontinued 
under the proviso to clause I above and the Director -General is satisfied that the 
failure of the Wireless Operator trainee to reach the necessary standard is due to 
his negligence or failure to apply himself earnestly to his work ( the decision of 
the Director -General in this behalf being final) , Government shall have full power 
to order forfeiture of the amount of security deposit and the Wireless Operator 
trainee and the surety jointly and severally and their respective heirs , executors , 
administrators and legal representatives shall pay and refund to the Govern 
ment on demand all amounts paid to him as stipend during the period of his 
training 

( ii ) Il the Wireless Operator trainee commits any breach of his agrcements and 
covenants contained in Clause II above, or in case of continued adverse reports 
regarding his conduct or his political activities directed against the Government . 
of his country , or if the Wireless Operator trainee voluntarily quits , for reasons 
not beyond his control, at any time during the course of training , or on comple 
tion thereof and acceptance of employment pursuant to clause If ( C ) above does 
not serve the posts and Telegraphs Department for a period upto 5 years , or dur 
ing such service does not carry out his duties with the diligence or fails to comply 
with the instructions of his superior officers (as to which the decision of the Direc 
tor -General shall be final) , then in any of such cases Government shall have full 
power to order forfeiture of security deposit and the Wireless Operator trainee 
and the surety jointly and severally and their respective heirs , executors , adminis 
trators and legal representatives shall pay and refund to the Government on 
demand all monies expended on him in respect of his training, as also the amounts 
paid as stipend . 


IV . Provided that the liability of the surety hereunder shall not in any manner 
be affected by any time which may be granted to the Wireless Operator trainee 
or any other indulgence which may be shown to him in respect of the recovery of 
the said monies by the Government, nor shell it be necessary for the Government 
to sue the Wireless Operator trainee / lather / guardian before suing the surety for 
amounts due hereunder . 

V . The stamp duty on this Agreement shall be borne by Government. 

In witness whereof, the Wireless Operator trainee and the surety have here 
unto set their respective hands and the President has hereunto caused 


on his behalf to set his hand this the 

One thousand nine hundred and 


day of 


Full Singned by the 
Name above bounden 

( in the * acting by his 
case of a Guardian in 
minor ) the presence of 


Singnature 
(of the Wireless Operator trainee ) 
* ( Acting as guardian 

" in the case of 
of Shria minor ) 

a minor 


Witness 


Full 


Name 


Signed by the 
above bounden 


(Signature of the surety 

with full address.) 


( Surety in the presence 

of (Witness ) 


Signed by, for and on 

behalf of the President 
of India in the presence 

of ( Witness ) - 


[ No. STB . 401 - 64 / 55 / NCG . ) 
S . C . SHARMA, Under Secr . 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

(Railway Board ) 

New Delhi, the 29th April 1957 
S .R . O . 1485. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 82J of the 
Indian Railways Act , 1890 ( IX of 1890 ) , the Central Government hereby makes 
the following amendment in the Railway Accidents ( Compensation ) Rules, 1950 , 
namely : 

In Rule 6 of the said Rules, after sub -Rule (2 ), the following sub - rule shall 
be nserted , namely : 
" ( 3 ) The amount of compensation payable in respect of injuries causing 

temporary disablement, total or partial, or of injuries resulting in 
pain and suffering without causing any disablement, shall be such 
as the Claims Commissioner may, in all the circumstances of tho 

case determine to be reasonable : 
Provided that , 
Such compensation shall in no case exceed 3 /5th of the amount 
prescribed for total disablement in part I of the Schedule." 

[No. 893- TG / P /54 / 11. ) 
D . C . BAIJAL , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 24th April, 1957 . 
S . R . O . 1486 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Sec 
tion 4 of the Evacuee Interest ( Separation ) Act, 1951, the Central Government 
horoby appoint for the Union Territory of Delhi, Shri Sunder La ) Oberoi as Com 
petent Officer, for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed on the Com 
petent Oncer by or under the said Act, with effect from the 1st April, 1957. 

[No. 52 ( 103 ) / 55 - Prop . I. ) 
KANWAR BAHADUR , Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 26th April 1957 
S .R . O . 14B7 / A , Amdt. XIV . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 
40 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabiltation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in 
the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules, 1955 , amely : 

In the said Rules, 

to Explanation II in Appendices VIII and IX , the following proviso shall be 
Added , namely : 
" Provided that compensation payable shall not exceed the assessed value of a 

[No. F . 7 / 11/ 57-51.) 
P . GANGULEE, Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 1st May 1957 


S . R . O . 1488 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954. (44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri I. B . Saxena as Assistant 
Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 

officer by or under the said Act , with effect from the date he took charge of his 
+ posts . 


( No. F .7 /37/ 57- S.II.] 
MANMOHAN KISHAN , Under Secy ., 


1000 lil , GAU ! 1. . UF INDIA : MAY 11 , 190 / / VAISANHA 41, 10 . 


PART II 


New Delhi, the 4th May 1957 
S . R . O . 1489... In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
2 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Major M . T . Chati (Retired ) as 
Assistant Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing he functions 
assigned to such Commissioner by or under the said Act with effect from the date 
he took charge of his office. 

[No .5 / 14 /57 - S . II. ) 


S . R . O . 1490 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 . (44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Kirpal Singh as Assistant 
Settlement Omcer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge of his 
post. 

[No, F . 7 / 39/ 57 - SII. ) 


New Delhi, the 6th May 1957 
S . R . O . 1491. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri A . L , Bahl, as Settlement 
Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officer by or 
under the said Act with effect from the date he took charge of his office . 

[No. 6 / 14 / 57-S .II.} 


S . R . O . 1492 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Cimponsation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Jhanda Singh as Assistant 
Settlement Commissoner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to 
such Commissioner by or under the sald Act with effect from the date he took 
charge of his office , 

[No . 3/ 3 /56- SII). ) 
L . B . MATHUR , Under Secy . 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONAL AUTHORITY 

New Delhi - 1, the 29th April 1957 
S . R . O . 1493 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Delhi 
(Control of Building Operations ) Act , 1955 ( 53 of 1955 ) the Delhi Development 
Provisional Authority , with the previous approval of the Central Government, 
hereby makes the following amendments to the Delhi (Control of Building Ope 
rations ) Regulations published with notification of the Government of India , 
Ministry of Health No: F . 30 - 8 / 55 -LSG ., dated the 11th November, 1955 , namely 

After Chapter II - A of the said Regulations the following Chapter II - B shall 
be added to the said Regulations. 

CHAPTER II - B 

Grant of copies of records 
Copies of documents may be given , at the discretion of the Secretary , on pay 
ment of fees as prescribed below 

Fees for plans , 
(1) For ordinary copy of a plan for which a trac 
ing has to be prepared 
One ferro paper . 

. At a rate of Rs. 5 per sq. ft, or part thereof 

for the first copy and Re. - / 12 / - porsg . 
ft . or part thereof for every subsequent 

copy . 
One azurelaid paper . . At a rate of Rs. 5 per sq . ft. or part thereof 

for the first copy and Re. I per sq . ft , or 
part thereof for every subsequent copy . 


SEC. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 1001 


(i ) For a copy of a plan for which 4 tredag 
exists in the Authority s ofice 

On ferro paper . . . Re. - 12 - per sq . ft. or part thereof. 
On ozalid paper 

Re. I per sq . ft. or part thereof. 
( ) Where 4 person presents an exact copy of a Rs. 5 per plan . 

plan on the record of the Authority and 
desires it to be certified as a true copy of that 

plan . 
In case an applicant wants the copies of the plans urgently , in addition to 
the copying and other charges listed above an addltional fee of Rs . 5 / - per plan 
In case of ( 1) above and Re. 1 / - per plan in cases of ( ii) and ( iii) above would 
be leviable. 


Foos for copying of English , Hindi or Urdu records 


English record 


Urdu or Hindi record 


( ) For the first 200 words or under 

• 12 anngs 
Every additio Dal 100 words or fraction there - 6 annas 
of, 


1048 
3 atinas 


In case an applicant desires copies of the above documents urgently , he shall 
be charged at twice the normal rates . 

( b ) Preparation of copies of documents shall not be undertaken unless the 
prescribed fee has been deposited by the applicant in the office of the Authority . 

( c ) Copying fee once paid shall not be refunded unless an application for 
refund is made before arrangements for the making o fa copy of the document 
concerned have been made. 

( d ) An applicant for an urgent copy shall be entitled to have his copy fur 
nished to him , if possible, by the second working day after the Aling of the 
application . 

[No. F . 1( 1 ) / 57 - Admn .] 
I G . MUKHARJI, Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 30th April , 1967 
S . R . O . 1494 . — In the Ministry of Labour Notification No. S . R .O . 396 , dated 
the 29th January , 1957, published at page 248 in the Gazette of India , Part II . 
Section 3 dated the 2nd February , 1957, for " Shri Das Sarkar " occurring in 
lines 4 and 5 tead " Shri K . R . Das Sarkar " . 

[ No . PF 46 ( 12 ) / 66 . ] 
R . C . SAKSENA , Under Secy . 


[Office of tho Chief Labour Commissioner ( c ) ] 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1957 
S . R . O . 1495. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947, ( Act XIV of 1947) , delegated to me by the 
Central Government under section 39 of the sald Act, in their Ministry of Labour 
Notification No, LR - 16 (5 ) / 56 dated 5th December , 1956 , it is hereby ordered that 
the railway companies mentioned in the schedule appended hereto , shall constitute 
a Works Committee in each industrial establishment under them in which one 
hundred or more workmen are employed or have been employed on any day 
within the twelve months preceding the date of the publication of this order , in 
accordance with the provisions of the said section , in the manner laid down in part 
VII of the Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules , 1957 . 


1002 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1967 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[PART II 


The Schedule 
1 , Bankura Damodar River Railway . 
2 . Ahemdpur Katwa Rallway . 
3 . Burdwan Katwa Rallway . 
4 . Futwah - Islampur Light Rallway . 
5 . Shahdara ( Delhi) - Saharanpur Light Railway . 
8 . Arrah Sasram Light Railway , 
7 . Howrah Amta Light Rallway . 
8 . Hawrah Sheakhala Light Rallway, 
9 . Debit Rohtas Light Railway . 
10 . Bukhtiarpur Bihar Light Railway . 

[No. LW / 17 ( 13 ) / 58. ) 
P . S . EASWARAN . 
Chief Labour Commissioner 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1957 
S .R .O . 1498 . — Whereas it appears to Central Government that the employer and 
the majority of employees in relation to the factory of Messrs . Rajhans Press, Rui 
Mandi Sadar Bazar, Delhi, have agreed that the provisions of the Employoen 
Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to the said 
factory : 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 
1 of the Employees Provident Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the said factory . 

2. This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of 
August, 1956 . 

[No. P . F . II /57 ( 26 ) / 57. ) 


8 . R . O . 1497 - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of employees in relation to the factory of Messrs. Fuel Injection 
Limited , 43, Forbes Street, Fort , Bombay - l , have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to 
the said factory ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
soction 1 of Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the said factory . 

2 . This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of 
January , 1957. 

[No. P . F . II / 57 ( 26 ) / 87. ) 


8 . R . O . 1498 . Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employ 
er and the majority of employees in relation to the factory of Messrs . Jessie Tee 
Estate , Manantoddy P .O ., North Malabar, have agreed that the provisions of tho 
Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applicable 
to the said factory ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), the Central Gov 
ernment hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the gald factory . 

2 . This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of 
August, 1956 . 

[No. P . F . II / 57 ( 28) / 57.). 
R . C . SAKSENA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 30th April , 1957 
8 .R .O . 1499. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
Nection 5 of the Mines Act, 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ) , the Central Government has 
appointed , with effect from the 26th March 1967, Shri Joy Joseph , Inspector of 
Mines (Welfare ) in the Mines Department, to be Inspector of Mines subordinate 
to the Chief Inspector . 

(No. M .48 ( 7 ) 58 .) 


Buc. 87 | 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1967/VAISAKHA 21, 1879 1009 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1967 
S . R . O . 1500 . - The following draft of certain amendments to the Coal Mines 
Labour Weltare Fund Rules , 1949, which the Central Government proposes to 
make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Coal Mines Labour 
Welfare Fund Act, 1947, ( 32 of 1947) is published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) 
of the said section for information of all persons likely to be affected thereby 
and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into consideration on 
or after the 29th May 1937. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any persons with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Draft Amendment 
In the said Rules 
(1) In rule 10 , the following words shall be added at the end, namely : 
" and the resignation shall take effect from the date of its acceptance by the 

Chairman or on the expiry of thirty days of the date of its receipt 

by the Chairman , whichever is earlier " . 
(2) In rule 31A 
( a ) for sub -rule ( 1) , the followng sub - rule shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( 1 ) The standard of dispensary services to be provided by owners at 

collieries for the purposes of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 5 of the 
Act shall be as specified in the Schedule hereto annexed , hereinafter 

called the prescribed standard ;" 
(b ) after sub - rule ( 2 ), the following sub - rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( 3 ) The Coal Mines Welfare Commissioner may , if he is satisfied that the 

dispensary is being efficiently run and serves the purpose for which 
it is established, waive any of the requirements specified in tho 

prescribed standard : 
Provided that no such dispensary shall contain any room other than . 

store room which is less than twelve feet by ten feet in area : 
Provided further that the functions of a medical graduate may be perform 

ed by a medical licentiate who has fifteen years experience as e 

medical officer in independent charge of a colliery dispensary ” . 
(3 ) For sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 34, the following sub - rule shall be substituted 
namely : 
" ( 3 ) The challan shall be filled in duplicate , a copy of which shall bo 

retained by the Treasury and the remaining copy shall be returned 
to the depositor who will transmit it to the Commissioner as proof 
of payment along with the monthly return prescribed in sub - rule ( 2 ) 
of rule 32 after entering the number , date and amount shown in the 

treasury receipt in the copy of the return ." 
( 4 ) For the Schedule , the following Schedule shall be substituted , namely : 


" THE SCHEDULE 
Standard of dispensary services to be provided by owners of collieries for the 
purpose of sub - section 2 of the Section 5 of the Act. (Rule 31A ) . 


I. Building 
1. Dispensary catering for 1, 000 workers or less : - 
Three rooms to be used as follows: 

(1) Consulting room ( 14x 12 ) . 
( 4 ) Dressing room ( 14 x 12 ) . 

(W ) Dispensary and Store room ( 14 x 12 ), 
Covered waiting accommodation - - 144 sq . ft. 
Two latrines ( ilush type ) each 3 X 8 . 


! 


1004 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1957 /VAISAKHA 21 , 1879 


[PART II 


2 . Dispensary catering for 1001 to 2, 000 workers: 
Six rooms to be used as follows: 

(i) Consulting room for males ( 14 x 12 ) . 
( 1 ) Consulting room for females ( 14 x 12 ). 
( 11 ) Minor operation room ( 14 x 12 ) . 
( ly ) Dispensary room ( 14 x 12! ) . 
( v ) Laboratory room ( 150 to 175 sq . ft.) 

( vi ) Store room ( 14 x 12 ) . 
Covered waiting accommodation – 204 sq . ft. 
Two latrines ( flush type) each 5 x 8 . 
3. Dispensary catering for 2001 to 3,000 workers : 
Nine rooms to be used as follows: 

( i) Consulting room for males ( 14 x 12 ) . 
(u ) Consulting room for females ( 14 x 12 ) . 
( ill) Minor operation room ( 14 x 12 ) . 
(( lv ) Dispensary room ( 14 x 12 ) . 

( v ) Laboratory room (150 to 175 sq . ft .) . 
( hy ) Dressing room ( 10 x 12 ) . " 
All ) Dark room ( 10 x 10 ) . 
( viti ) Registration and Record office room ( 150 sq . ft .). 

(lx ) Store room ( 14 x 12 ) . 
Covered waiting accommodation - 264 sq . ft . 
Three latrines ( Aush type ) each 5 x 8 . 
4 . Dispensary catering for 3 ,001 to 5,000 workers : 
Twelve rooms to be used as follows:- - 

(1) Consulting room for males . ( 14 x 12 ) . 
( u ) Consulting room for females ( 14 x 12 ) . 
( 1 ) Minor operation room ( 14 x 12 ) . 
(iv ) Laboratory room (200 sq . ft.) . 
( v ) Dispensary room ( 14 x 12 ) . 
( vl) Dressing room ( 10 x 12 ) . 
(vii) Dark room ( 10 x 10 ) . 

( viii) Douche room ( 10 x 10 ) . 
: (ix ) . Registration and Record Office room ( 200 sq . ft.) . 

( x ) Store room ( 14 x 12 ) . 
( xi ) Nurses duty room ( 120 to 150 sq . ft.) . 
( xii ) Bath room (6 x 8 ) . 
Covered waiting accommodation 384 sq. feet, 
- Four latrines ( flush type ) each 5 x 8 . 

5 . Dispensary for over 5 ,000 workers: 
Thirteen rooms to be used as follows: 

( i) Consulting room for males ( 14 x 12 ) . 
( 1 ) Consulting room for females (14 x 12 ) . 
( 1 ) Minor operation room ( 14 x 12 ) . 
(Iv ) Dispensary room ( 14 x 12 ). 
( v ) Laboratory room ( 250 to 300 sq. ft .). 
( vi ) Dressing room ( 10 x 12 ) . 
( vii) Dark room ( 10 x 10 ) . 


Sec . 31 . 1 . V GAL. la. Ur LDLA : MAY 11 , 11 / VASA 


A 21, lor 


100 


( vill) Douche room ( 10 x 10 ). 
( ix ) X -ray plant room ( 14 x 12 ) . 
( x ) Registration and Record Office room (250 sq. ft.) . 
( xi) Store room ( 14 x 12 ) . 
( xii ) Nurses duty room ( 120 to 150 sq . ft.) . 
( xiii) Bath room (B x 8 ). 
Covered waiting accommodation — 684 sq . ft. 
Six latrines ( flush type ) each 5 x 8 . 


Each dispensary should provide emergency beds for treatment of simple and 
emergency cases at the rate of one bed for every 250 workers subject to a 
minimum of two beds , one for males and one for females. For this purpose 
separate rooms shall be provided for males and females . The rooms shall 
have alr space of 600 cft . per bed and door and window space not less than 
one - third of the floor space with varandah seven feet wide along the front of 
the rooms. 


Collieries which have no provision of emergency beds on the lines mentioned 
above at their dispensaries will be allowed time upto three years from the 
date the standards are enforced . Those collleries which fail to provide 
emergency beds in three years time shall not be entitled to any subsidy there 
after even if they otherwise be qualified for it . 


II. Staff 


: 


: 


i Dresser 


1 (part time) 
I Do . . 
I (whole time) 
I Do , ) 


. 


. 


I, Dispensary carering for 250 workers or less : 

Medical licentiate or Graduate 
Widwife 
Compounder - cum -Dresscr . 

Sweeper . . . . . 
2 . Dispensary catering for 251 to 5oo workers 

Medical Graduate . 
Midwife 
Compounder -cum -Dresser 

Sweeper 
3 . Dispensary catering for 501 to 1,000 workers : 

Medical Graduatc . 
Widwife 
Compounder -cum -dresser 
Sweeper 
Attendants . 
Cook 


I (whole time) , 
I (part time) 
I (whole time) 
Il Do.) 


...... 


(whole time) 


4 . Dispensary catering for 1001 to 2 ,000 workers : 

MedicalGraduate . 
Compounder 
Dresser 
Midwife 
Sweepers 
Attendants 
Cook 


(whole time) 


5 . Dispensary caterlag for 2001 to 3, 000 workers - 

Medical Graduate 
Medical licentiate or Graduate 
Compounder . 
Dreggcrg 
Widwife 
Nurse 
Sweepers 
Attendants 
Cooks 


........ 


$ (whole time), 


1000 11 GALÇITE OF LIDIA : MA .. 11 , 1967 / VAISANTA 21, 11 ! 


ART U 


I . E 


. MIDI 


6 . Dispensary catering for 3001 to 5, 000 workers > 

Medical Graduate 
Medical licentiate or Graduate , 
Medical Graduate or Licentiatc (woman ) 
Compounders . 
Dressers 
Midwives 
Nurses , 
Sweepers 
Attendants 
Cooks 


(whole time) 


7. Dispensary caterlag for 5 ,000 workers and above < 

MedicalGraduates (Men ) . 
Medical Graduates (Woman ) 
Medical liccotiate or Graduate 
Compounders 
Dreggers 

(whole time) 
Midwives 

. 3 to 4 
Nurses 

• 3 to 4 
Sweepers 
Attendants 

6 to 8 
Cooks 

. 3 to 4 ) 
III . List of drugs, surgical cquipments, dressings etc. for dispensary. 

A . Drug 


I . Acid Acetic . 
2 . Acid Borlc . 
3 . Acid Carbolic , 
4 . Acid Salicylic. 
5 . Aqua Distillata . 
6 . Amnon Carb , 
7 . Aspirin , 
8 . Acriflavin or other anti- septic dye . 
9 . Benedict s solution , 
IO , Calcium lactate . 
II , Copper sulphate . 
12 . Calaming Preparate . 
13 . Coi Liver Oil . 
14 . Ephedrine Hydrochlor ( I gr . tab . ). 
15 . Ether . 
16 . Exct. Glycrr . Liq . 
17. Ferri suph . 
( 8 . Rerri et ammoni citras. 
19 . Glicose 
20 , Glycerine 
21 . Gum acacia . 
22 . Hydrarg ammoniata . 
23 . Hydrarg oxide flava. 
24 . Ethyol. 
25. Kaoline, 
26. Lint saponis . 
27. Liq . Ammon acetate, 
28. Liq . Plumbi subacetas fort. 
29. Lysol. 
30. Mag . Oxide powder or Mag. Trulllicate . 
31. Mag . Sulph , 
32. Menthol. 
33. Multi vitamin tab . 
34 . OL, Ricini. 
35, Oil Meath pip . 
36 . Oil Olive or Oil of arachis. 
37. Paludrine taby , 
38 . Pheno Barbitone. 
39. Pot. Bromide. 
40 . Pot Citrate . 
41. Pot . Iodide. 

2 . Pot. Pormanganate. 
43 . Pretargol or Argyrol. 


44 . Pulb . Ipecas Co . 

Pulv . Quinine sulpb . 
46 . Sodi Blaarb . 

Sodi Salicylate . 
48. Spt. Ammon . Aromat. 
49. Sodi Chloride , 
50 . Spt. Methyl. 
51. Spt. Rect. 
52. Sulphanilamide or sulphadiazine tablets . 
53. Sulphaguunnidine. 
54. Sulphanilamide powder . 
55 . Tab . Digoxin or Pill Digitalis co . B . P . C . 
56 . Tabs . Laxative Co . B . P . C . 
57 . Tetrachlorethylcnt . 
38. Tinct. Belladonna , 
59 . Tinct. Benoin co . 
60 . Tinct . Opii Camphorata . 
61. Tinct, Card co . 
62 . Tinct . Hyoscyamus . 
63 . Tinct . iodine, 
64. Uag . Sulphuris B .P .C . 
65. Va clinc. 
66 . Vin , Ipecac or tinct. or kiq . 
67. Zinc Oxide, 
68 . Adrenalin Hydrochloride Liquor (1 :1000 ) 
69. Coramine or Nikethmide. 
70 . Emetine Hydrocholor (amp, or tab .) 
71. GI, 1 . 
72 , Gr. 1 / 2 , 
23 . Inicctio Qulnine Gt, 10 . 
74 . Percaine Hydrochlor or Novocain 2 % amp. 
75. Serum Anti-venom , 
76 . Serum Tatanus anti toxin 1500 units. 
77 . Soluscptasine or other injectable sulphamide , 
78 . Tab , Atropine ( I / 100 gr.) . 
29 . Tab . Morphine ( t gr.) . 
80 . Pennicillin 1,00 ,000 unit ampoules or 4 ,00 , 000 uñit ampoules . 
81, Streptomycinc , 
82. 90 . P . A . S . 
( 83 . Igonicolinic Acid Hydrazlde. 

NOTB . The actual quantites of the above -mentioned items to be stocked shall be such us are 
found necessary in the ight of day to day working of the dispensaries, provided that provision 
for drugs shall be made wi each dispensary at least at the rate of so Naiye Paise per annum per 
worker attached to the dispensary. 


B . Dressing . 


Number 


Below 250 
workers 


251 - 1000 
workers 


1. Bendage, roller, 6 4. 
2 . Bandage , roller, 4 
3. Bendage, roller, 3 . 
4 . Bandages Triangular 
5. Cotton Wool . . 
6 . Gauge i yd . cach . . 
7. Lint . . . . 
8 . Plaster of parls bandagesť 
9 : Plaster of paris bandagen 3 
10 . Scrapping adhesive 12 roller 
II. Strapping adhesive 2 roller 
12 . Strapping adhesive 3 roller 


12 


. 


. 


. 


. 


4 oz . 


. 
. 
. 


C . Medicaland Surgical Equipments 


Number 


· Below 250 

workers 


251- - 1000 

workers 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


I. Basin , 14 " . 
2 . Bowls E .I. 4 
3. Bowls E . I. 8 
4 . Catheters rubber (size 8 & 10) 
5. Cup feeding . . . . 
6 . Douche can with fittings . 
7 . Drums dressing . . 
8. Examination lamp. . 
9. Forceps artery . . 
Io . Forccps Clicatle , 
II. Forceps Disecting toothed 
12 . Forceps Discecting plain 
13 . Hammer percussion 
14 . Jug measure . . 
15 . Lancet Vaccination , 
16 . MIRROR forehead 
17 . Needlc aneurysm . 
18. Needle suture assorted 
19 . Probe . . 
20 . Razor safety 
21. Roger s cholera apparatus or apparatus intravenous 
32 . Stethoscope . . 
23 . Syringes 2 C.C . 
24. Syringes to c . . . 
25 . Syringes 20 c.c, or above 
26 . Spygmonanometer 
27. Speculum Nasal . . 
28 . Speculum Aurel . 
29. Stove Primus 
30. Scapels 
31. Skinners mask 
32 , Stretcher . 
33 . Syringes ear , . 
34 . Spud, eye . . . 
35 . Spliat leg Thomes (medium ) 
36 . Splinting wire crammer 
37 . Scissors straight both endasherp 
38 . Scissors straightMayo 
39. Sterilizer instrument porteble . 
40 , Thermometers 
41. Tongue depressor 
42. Tape measure 
43 . Test type chart . 


I bet 


· I sct 


" We 





, 


41. . 


, , A ! ! 


. il ,1 


7 , AL 


K A21, forv i . 


44 . Tray dressing 
45 . Tray kidney . . 
46 . Tourniquet . . 
47 Undine 
48 . Weighing machioc . 
49. Water Proof sheets of 2 yde. . . . . . 

D . Other Dispensary Equipment. 


Number 


Below 250 
workers 


250 - 1000 
workers 


. 


I pkt. 


I pkt. 
: I pair 

I pkt. 
1 pkt. 


1 . pair 
I pkt . 
1 pkt. 


. 


1. Blankets 
2 . Bin for soiled clothes . . . 
3. Bottice drop with grooved stopppers 
4 . Cork screw , , . 
5. Corks assorted . . 
6 . Dropper cyo 
7 . Funnel 4 oz. glass or E , I, 
8. Filter paper , . 
9. Gloves . . . . . 
10 . Litaus paper blue , . 
II. Litmus paper red . . 
12 . Measure glass 8 oz. . 
13 . Measure glass 2 oz. . . 
14 . Minim glass . . . . 
15. Pestie and Mortar composition 
16 . Pin safety 
17. Pot dolf with cover . . 
18 . Spatula 
19. Slab olotment 
20 . Soap 
21. Spirit lamp 
22 . Scales and weights . . 
23 . Slides glass . . 
24 . Schoors shop 
25. Towels ordinary 
26 . Tin opener , 
27. Test tubes . . 
28 . Test tubes stand . 
29. Test tube holder 
30. Urlac glass specim 


cake 


I cake 


**************** 


oz . 


VIV 1 . . . , , 11. ve H 


ue , . 14. 1 . 


. 


E . Furniture 


Number 


251 - 1000 


Below 250 
workers 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


I . Almirah . 
2 . Benches 
3 . Chairs 
4 . Cup - bourd poison . 
5 . Examination couch 
6 . Stools , , 
7 . Screen . . 
8 . Table Modical Officer 
9 . Table dispensing . 
IO . Table dressing . 


. 


, 
. 


, 
. 


, 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 


. 


. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


I 
I 


. 


. 


NOTR . In the case of dressings, medical and gurgical equipments , other dispensary equip 
monts and furniture , a 50 % increase in the numbers shown above for 1000 workers shall be made 
for every additional 1000 workers ." 

[No. CMLWF, Am /MII - 1( 14 )/53.] 


New Delhi, the 6th May 1957 
8 . R . O . 1801, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 9 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 (32 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government has appointed with effect from the 4th April, 1957 (after 
noon ) , Shri K . Bag Singh , Officer on Special Duty , Coal Mines Labour Welfare 
Fund, as the Coal Mines Welfare Commissioner vice Shri Teja Singh Sahni. 

[No. MII - 6 ( 58 ) 58 . ] 


8 . R . O . 1502. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Mica 
Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act , 1948 ( 22 of 1946 ) read with sub - clause ( 1) of 
clause (a ) of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 3 of the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund 
Rules, 1948 , the Central Government has appointed with effect from the 4th April, 
1957 (afternoon ) , Shri K . Bag Singh , Coal Mines Labour Welfare Commissioner , 
Dhanbad , as the Welfare Commissioner , Bihar vice Shri Teja Singh Sahnı 

[No. MII -6 (58 ) 58 . ] 


S . R . O . 1503 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Mica 
Mines Labour Walfare Fund Act, 1946 ( 22 of 1946 ) read with rule 3 of the Mica 
Mines Labour Welfare Fund Rules , 1948 , the Central Government has appointed 
with effect from the 4th April, 1957 ( afternoon ) , Shri K . Bag Singh , Welfare Com 
missioner , Bihar, as the Chairman of the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Ad 
visory Committee for Blhar constituted under the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour No . S . R . O . 2675 dated the 3rd August, 1954 
vice Shri Teja Singh Sahni. 

[No. MII -8 (68 ) 68 . ] 
S . RANGASWAMI, Under Secy . 


ORDIR 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1957 
8 . R . O . 1504, - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
disputo oxists or 19 apprehended between the employers in relation to the North 


. . . un I 


U 


LULA : MA . 11, 1 . 2 , ASA WHA . 1, 140 10 .. . 


Chirimini Chillery and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute of adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Labour 
Court at Nagpur constituted under Section 7 of the said Act . 


THE SCHEDULE 
Termination of services of Shri Shly Prasad Awasthy and the rellet, if any, to 
which he is entitled . 

[No . LR - II- 55 - 2 ( 19 ) /57.] 
A . L . HANDA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADOASTING 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1957 


8 . R . O . 1305 .-- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Cinema 
tograph Act 1952 ( Act XXXVII of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby directs 
that the film entitled Bhai Bhai produced by Messers A . V . M . Productions 
in respect of which " U " certificate No. 14069, dated the 18th April, 1956 was 
granted by the Central Board of Film Censors shall be deemed to be a film in 
respect of which an A certificate has been granted . 


[No . 9 / 31 / 56 - FC .] 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1957 
8 .R . O . 1806 . — The Central Government hereby 
( a ) directs, in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Government 

of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No , S . R . O . 
3805, dated the 26th December , 1955 and in modification of Order of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broad 
casting No . S . R . O . 2786 , dated the 13th November , 1956 that the 
Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay 
shall consist of 31 members with effect from 1st May , 1967. 


(b ) notified for general Information that the following members of the 
Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay 

ne S 

MAY 
red under sub - rule ( 1 ) of Rule in 

o 
: ship ) Rules , 1951, with effect from 30th April , 1957:- - 

Cinematograph (Consor 
1. Shrimati Leela Jog . 
2. Shrimati Urmila Mehta . 
3 . Prof. I. P . Pande. 
4 . Shri S. A . Kadar. 

[No. 14 / 3 / 57 - FC .] 
V . P . PANDIT , Under Secy . 


I012 T .... 


Au 11... U . 


DIA : MA .. 11 , 1 . J / . . . 


A 


. 1, 1 . 


. 


. . 44 


S . R . 0 . 1507 - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Indian Boilers Act 
1923 (5 of 1923 ), the Central Boilers Board hereby makes the following further amendments in the 
Jadłap Boiler Regulations , 1950 , the game having been previously published as required by sub 
section ( 1) of Section 31 of the said Act, namely : 

In the said Regulations 
(A ) For Clause (e) of regulation 4 , the following clauec shall be substituted , namely : 
« e) Certificate for atcam pipes . - A certificate of manufacture and test in Form IIIA 

signed by the maker or a responsible representative of the maker of the steam 
pipes containing particulars and results of tests of the materials used in the manu 

facture and the make and the hydraulic test of all stcam pipes supplied . " 
(B ) For Form III, the following Form shall be substituted , pamely : 


" FORM III 

WORKS ADDRESS 
Constructor s certificate of manufacture and test (Regulation 4 (c) ( ) ] 


I. Description : 


AU 


UILOJ . . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Constructor s Name and address .. . . . . . 
Manufactured for /Stock purposes. . ... . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . Contract No. . . . . . . . 
Type of boiler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Length overall . . . . . . . . 
Diameter inside Largest belt , . . . 
Design pressure . . . . . . . . 

... . . . ]bg / sq .in . 
Intended working pressure . . . . . . . . . . . . Ib8/sq . in . 
Shop Number of boiler 
Year of Manufacture , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Total heating surface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 , It. 
Total evaporation . . . . . . . . . . lbg / hr . (Maximum continuous rating ) 
Final temperature of Htcam (Design ). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0f 
Grate area . . . . . . . 

. . . 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . 89 . ft . 
Brief description of boiler . . . . . . . 


2 . Parts Manufactured at 

the contractor s works 


Urca 


OY . 


UNII . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . 


Name of part(s) . . . . 
Description . . . . . . . . . . 
: . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Leading dimensions , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Manufactured by : . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Identification marks , 
Part (s) manufactured , inspected at all stages of construction by 

. . . . . . . . . ( Inspecting Authority ). 
Certificates furnished (Constructor s , Steel Maker s end Inspecting 

Authority s etc.) 
Part(s) hydraulically tested and internally Inspected after test by 
. : : 

: . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


3 . Parts manufactured out- Name of part (s ) . . . . . . 
sido the constructor s works Description . . . . . 

Leading dimensions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Manufactured by . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Identification marks 
Part(s ) manufactured , inspected at all stages of construction by 

. . . . . . . .. (Inspecting Authority). 
Certificates furnished (Constructor s, Steel Maker s and Inspecting 

Authority s etc . ) 
Part (8) hydraulically tested and internally inspected after test by 


NOTE . - Similar information is to be furnished for each part manufactured outside the 
Constructor s Works. 


Sec. 37 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1967/VAISAKHA 21, 1879 1013 


4 . Construction 

manship 


and work - 


Shell Seams. — The longitudinal seams are welded /riveted and have 

. . . , . rows of rivers in inside 
strap and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . TOWS of rivets in outside strap . 
Rivet holes are . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . inch diameter and number 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .per pitch of . . . . . . . 
inches. 


4 


. IT 


Butt straps cut from plates and bent to required curvature in . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . The circumfercntial scans 
Joining rings of shell are . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . jointed and single/double riveted /welded . 


Rivet holes are . . . . . . . . . . . . . , inches diameter and number 

. . . . . . per pitch of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . inches . 


The shell end seams are . . . . . . . . . . . . 

and single /double riveted /welded . 


.....jointed 


Rivet holes are . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . Inch diameter and number . . . , 

. . . . . . . . . . . . .per pitch of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . inches . 
Details of scams as in drawing No . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Furnance Seams. - The longitudinal scams are welded /riveted . 
The CTOSB scams joining rings are of . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . riveted /welded . 


type . . 


Workmanship . All rivet lioles in cylindrical shell and furnace flucs 

drilled in place after plates were bent ; plates afterwards taken 
apart, burrs removed and rough edges of holes cleaned before 
riveting. Riveting wherever practicable donc by . . . . . . . . . . 
machine. All fire- worked plates , effectively annealed after comple 
tion of operations. Welding of parts of boilers has been done 
by. . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . process . 


All welds were effectively stress relicved . No part of the boiler in 

cluding mouthpieces and stand blocks, is made of cast iron or 
malleable cast iron . 
Fusion welded drums of water- tulie Boilers. The construction is in 

accordance with Chapter y of the Indian Boiler Regulations , 
Number of longitudinal seam in each ring . .. . . . . . . 
Number of circumferential scams. .. . . 
Details of repairs, if any, carried out to scams during construction 


Details of heat treatment. . . . . . . . 
Fusion welded electrode Boilers .- - The construction is in accordance 

with Chapter X of Indian Boiler Regulations . 
Number of longitudinal seams in shell. . . . . . . . . 
Number of circumferential beams. . . 
Details of repairs, if any , carried out to seams during construction 


. 


Details of heat treatment . 
Shell type Boilors of welded construction . The construction is in 

Accordance with Chapter XII of Indian Boiler Regulations. 
Number of longitudinal scams in shell . . . . . . . . . 
Number of longitudinal seams in furnace. . . . , 
Number of circumferential seams in shell .. .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . 
Number of circumferential seams in furnace . . . . . 
Details of repair , if any, carried out to geams during construction 


Details of heat treatment , . . . 


TOI4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 11 , 1967 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


(Part II 


Boiler parts and Attings 

ad attings 


Mater - Smel- 

in ter 


Make Inspect - Retoak 

ing 
oficer 


S . Material man !) . Plates. 
fachte 

Plates 
Rivet bars 
Stay bars 
Angles 
Bolte . 
Tubes 
Tubes 
Tubes 
Girders 
Boxcs . 
Headers 
Headers . 
Manholc frames , 
Manhole doorg 
Manhole comparing 
Sighthole doors , 
Stand blocks 
Stand pipca . 
Stop valve dhests 
Şafety Valve chests 
Feed Valve chests . 
Blow down valve . . 
Blow down elbow pipe , 
Water gauge mountings 


NOTE . — Under " Material” enter against appropriate items: " Steel, Simens Martin , Open 
Hearth acid (or basic ) process " , " Wrought Iron , Brand . . . ." Cast Steel, Process... etc. etc . and 
under " Remarks" a brief explanation of process of manufacture where necessary, 4-8 . " Solid drawn " , 
" Lep welded " , " Sold Prc8bcd " , tested by Makers . . . . lbs. per. sq . inch etc . 


Part of Boiler 


Thick - Ten - Elonge - Gauge Brand 

ness silc tion length & No. 
of pletes strength limits inches on plate 
in 32nd limits to % 
or dia - to tong 
meter 

in inches 


6 . Thickness of Platos etc., and tonsile test, limits , 
Cylindrical shell Shell 
platos 

Butt straps , 
Steam & Water drums , 
Wrapper plate ( 1 ) 
Tube plate ( 1 ) . 
Wrupper plate ( 2) 
Tube plate (2 ) ; 
Wrapper plate (3 ) 
Tube plate (3) 


SK . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1987 /VAISAKHA 11, 1879 1014 


I 


Cylindrical 
Platus 


Shell Barrel 

Fire Box casing crown 
Dome . . 
Mud or bottom drum ( 1 ) 
Mud or bottom drum ( a ) 
Mud or bottom drum (3 ) 


Shell ond plates Front End shell . 
and drum Heads Front End shell eter 

water drum ( 1) 
Front End shell steam and 

water drum ( 2) 
Front End shell steam and 

water drum (3 ) 
Front End shei Mud drum ( 1) 
Front End shell Mud drum 
Front End shell Mud drum 


Back and shell . . 
Back end shell Steam and 

water drul( 1 ) 
Back end shell Steam end 

water drum ( 2 ) 
Back end shell steam and 

water drum (3 ) . 
Back end shell Mud drum ( 1) 
Back end shęU Mud drum ( 2 ) , 
Back end shell Mud drum 3 ). 
Shell crown 
Domc end , 
Saddle 
Fire box casing sides . 
Doubling plate Front , 
Doubling plate back . 


Flamed and fira 

axposed plates 


Furnance circular (Plain ) 
Furnence circular 
Furnance circular 

gated ) , 
Fire box Crown . 
Fire box side 
Fire box front 
Fire box tube 
Uptake . . 
Smokebox tube . 
Com . Chbr. wraper 
Com , chbr . back . 


1016 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1967 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[ PART II 


THICKNESS OF PLATES ETC . & TENSILE TEST LIMITS 


1 


K 


Tubus 


. 


, 


Cross tubes . 
Smoke tubes (plain ) 
Smoke tubes (Stay) 
Water tube8 (Bottom or front 

bank ) . . 
Water tubes (top of rcar bank) 
Balancer tubes ( Steam ) 
Balancer tubes (Water) 
Superheater tubes 
Superheater tubes 
Superheater tubes 
Water wall tubes 
Water wall tubes 
Integral Economiser tubes 


Headers and cross Sectional headers 
Boxas , 

Water wall header ( 1 ) , 
Water Well headers ( 2 ) 
Water wall headers (3 ) , 
Water wall headers (4 ) . 
Water wall headers ( 5 ) , 
Water wall headers 6 ) . 
Integral Economiser headers ( 1 ) 
Integral Economiser headers 

( 2 ) . 
Superheater headers ( 1) 
Superheater headers ( 2 ) 
Superheater headers (3 ) 
Superheater headers 
Superheater headers 
Superheater headers (6 ) 
Müd boxes (1 ) . 
Mud boxes ( 2 ) 
Mud boxes (3 ) 
Mud boxes 


Stays and Bolts . 


Gusset stay plates 
Longitudinal 
Cross 
Screw 


Roof . 


Firebox roof slings 
Firebox roof pins 
Girder bolts . 
Shell angle bolts . 
Uptake apgle bolts 
Manhole bolte . 
Sighthole bolts . 


Miscellarvous 


Firehox girders , 
End plate stiffeners 
shell angle . 
Fumace angle , 
Uptake angle 
Gusset angle 
Manhole compensation ring . 
Manhole frame 
Manhole cover . 
Sighthole compensation ring 
Sighthole doors , 
Stend blocks . 
Stand pipes 


7 . Details of Drumts 


Nominal Length 


Shell 


Plate 


Tube Plate 


Head 


Manholes 
NO & Size. 


dia 


Hydrosta 
tic test Ibs/ 
Sg . in 


No . 


Nomenclature 


Thick - 
ness in 
32nds in 


# j Radius 
I of dish 


Type 


Inside Thick - Inside Thick 
radius (ness in radius in gess in 
in 32nds in 

32nds in 
6 7 8 9 


in 


2 


4 


5 


10 


II 


| 


12 


| 


13 


SEC.3]|THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY11,1967/VAISAKHA21,18791017 


* * Indicate (1 ) Flat (2 ) Dished ( 3) Ellipsoidal (4 ) Hemispherical 


1018 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1987 /VAIŞAKHA 21, 1879 


[PART II 


8. Headers and Boxes 


Head or end 


No. 


size 
and 
shape 


Thickness Shape 
in 32nds 

in 


Thickness Hydro 
in 320ds static 

test 
lhs /sq . in 


in . 


Water Well 

Headers 


Integral 

Economiser headers 


Superheaters 

Headers 


OLA-9- 


Mud boxes 


9 . Tures 


Nomenclature 


Outside 
diameter 
in inches 


Thickness 
in 100 the 


I Cross tubes 
2 Smoke tubes (Plain ) . 
3 Smoke tubes ( stay) . 
4 Water tubes (bottom or front bank ) 
S Water tubes ( rear or top bank) 
6 Balancer tubes (Steam ) . 

Balancer tubes (water) . 
8 Superheater tubes . . 
9 Superheater tubes 
10 Water wall tubes . 
II Integral economiser tubes , 


oonauto 


Io . Mountings 


No. 


Nomenclaturo 


Material 


Type 


No. 


Sizo 


I. Main stop valve , 
2 . Auxilliary stop valves 
3 . Safety valveg ( a ) 


(6 ) 


4 . Blow down valve (8 ) 
5 . Fced check valves , 


II, Details of Safety valves and test results 

Manufacturer . . . . . 
Identification marks of valves . . . 
Maker s No. 11 . . . 

. . . . . . . . . Type . . . . . . . . . . . . Lift . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . in , 


Valve 


. . . . . . . . . 


Material . 
Valve gcat . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . 

1 
Flat /bevel 

vel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Anglo .. 
Material 
Diameter of valve scating . . . 
Material 
Valvo body 
Material . . . 
Opening at neck . . 
Opening at outlet 


Spring 


Material . . . . . : 


. . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . NIII 


I 


I 


. . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . 


Process of manufacturo . . 
Chemical composition . . . . , 
Dimensione . . . . . . 
Outside diameter of coil 
Section of wire . . . . . 
Number of free coils . . . . . . 
Free length of coil . . . . . 


Test Results 

Place of test . . . . . . . . . . 
Blow off pressure . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Closing down pressure . . . . . . 
Relieving capacity (by test ) . . . 
Lift at full blow off pressure . . . 
Quality of stcam . . . . . 


. . . . . . . date , . . . . . 
. . . . . . . 168/sq . in . 
. . Ibs /sq . in . 

. . . . . . . . . lbs / hr. 


on 


Remarks : 

Doos the valve chatter . . . . 
Does valve stem leak . . . 
The valve conforms to drawings Nos . 

nes Nos. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . 

INSPECTING AUTHORITY 

Witnessing tests 


NOTE :- - Manufacturer s Certificate in original or Boiler Manufacturer s Certificate. 


12 . Certified that the particulars enterod herein in manuscript by us arc correct 
and that parts and fittings in sections 2 IO II against the names of which entries are made, have 
been used in the construction and fittings of the boiler , 


14 . 


1 . 16 . wii . . 


V .. 1 . 


lis, , * . 


11 , 1 


1 . ... ta, - 4 . 


1 , I1 


L 


4 . . 


11 


" T 


The particulars shown against the various parts used arc in accordance with the enclosed Cor 
tificates from the respective makers. 

The design of the boiler is that as shown in Drawing Nos. . . . . . . . .. 

The boilor has been designed and constructca to comply with the regulations undor the Indian 
Boilers Act, 1923 , for a working prossure of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . lbs , per square inch at our works 
abovo - named and satisfactorily withstood a water test of . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . lbs, 
per squaso inch on the . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . .. 
. . . . . . . . . . in tho presence of our responsible representative whose signature _ 1s 
Appended hereunder . 


19 . 1 . H 


. . . . 


MAKER 
(Signature of Maker ) 

or 

Secretary of Firm . 
Name and Signature of Engineer who witnessed test . 

Designation . 
Dated at . .. . . .. .. . .. . . the day of . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . 19 . 
Official Scal 

Name and Signature of 

Inspecting Authorities. 
(C ) After Form III the following shall be inserted as Form IITA , namely : 


FORM IIIA 
Certificate of Manufacture and Test 

[Regulation 4(e)] 
Namo of part . . . . . . . . 
Maker s name and address , . . . . . . 


prc $ 8UIC 


. . 


. 


. . . 


. . . . . . . . 


. 


ature . . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . 


... Ibs/ sq . in . 

. ... ... . . . . °F . 
. . . . . . . . . bs/sq . in . 


. . 


Cosure . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Intended working pressure 
Intended maximum temperature . 
Hydraulic test pressure . . . . 
Main dimensions . . . . . . . 
Drawing Nos. . . . . . . . . . 
Identification marks . . . 
Brief description 


2. MATERIAL 

Process of manufacture . 
Fully killed . . ... . . . . 
Chomical composition . . . 
Mode of manufacture . . . 
Ultimate tensile stress . . . 
Elongation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Bend test on material 
Bend test on weld . . . . . . . . 
Flatonning test 
Heat treatment . . . . . . . 
Mode of attachment of flanges 
Flange particulars . 
Size of branches , . , ., 


test plcce. 


Sec. 8 ] | THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957/VAISAKHA 21 , 1879 1021 


F 


. . . . . . . . 


Modo of attachment of brunches 
Mode of reinforcement 
Hoat treatment of joints after attachment of flanges and branches . . . 
Final Hydraulic test . . . . . . . . . 

... . . . . . . . lbs/sq . in . 
This form is to be usod for stean pipes and Actings referred to in Chapter VIII . 

Certified that the particulars ontered herein in manuscript by us ero correct and that parts and 
fittings against the name of which entries aro made, have been used in the construction of the Boilor 
and its Attings . 

The particulars shown against the various parts used are in accordance with the enclosed 
drawing Nos. 

The part has been designed and constructed to comply with the Indian Boiler Regulation 
for a working pressure of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109/ 84 , 

. . . . . . . . . . lbs/ sq .in , and temperaturo of . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . OF . At our works above named and satisfactorily withstood a vater test of. . . . . . . 
Ibs /sq . in . on the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . . . . . . . . . . 
in the presence of our responsible representative whose signature is appended herounder. 

MAKER . . . . . . . . . . 
Designation . 


Namo and Signature of Engineer who witnessed test . 
Dated at . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . the day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 

[No. S & P - II /BL -304 ( 21) /54 ). 


New Delhi, the 25th April 1957 
S . R . O . 1508 . - - The following draft of a further amendment to the Indian Boiler 
Regulations, 1950 , which the Central Boilers Board proposes to make in exercise 
of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Indian Boilers Act, 1923 ( 5 of 1923 ) , 
is published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 31 of the said Act, for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 1st 
August 1937. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Boilers Board . Such objections or suggestions should be addressed to 
the Secretary , Central Boilers Board , Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply , 
North Block , New Delhi, 

Draft Amendment 
In the said Regulations, after Chapter XII the following chapter shall be 
inserted , namely : 


CHAPTER XIII 
Qualification tests for welders engaged in welding of boilers and steam pipes 

under construction , erection and fabrication at site in India . 
602 . Scope. These regulations shall apply to testing of welders engaged in 
India in the manufacture and site welding of boilers and steam pipes of ferrous 
material 

603 . Definition .-- In these regulations "Welder " means a person engaged in 
manual welding ( gas or electric ) . 


604 . No welder shall be engaged on welding of boilers or steam pipes 
under construction , erection or fabrication at site unless he possesses the certi 
ficate as required under the Regulations hereinafter contained . 


605 . Initial qualification test and issue of certificate. - Every welder shall be 
duly tested and qualified to the satisfaction of the Inspecting Authority who 
shall assess his performance for qualifying for the certificate. The Inspecting 
Authority may , thereafter, issue a certificate in the form XIII / B indicating the 
class and type of welding in which he has qualified . 


1022 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1967 / VAISAKHA 21, 1879 


[ PART II 


= 


600, Production of certificate . — The holder of such certificate shall be bound 
to produce it when called upon to do so by the Inspecting Authority or an Ins 
pecting Officer . 

607. ( a ) Validity of certificate. - A certificate issued to a welder under 
these regulations shall remain valid for a maximum period of twelve months 
from the date of issue , provided that the holder thereof has, subsequent to the 
test , been employed with reasonable continuity on the class and type of work 
for which he is qualified . 

( b ) Re -validation of certificate - - The certificate may be extended from time 
to time from a period not exceeding twelye months at a time on completion of a 
requalification test to the satisfaction of the Inspecting Authority . 

( c ) Notwithstanding anything contained in clauses ( a ) and (b ) above, a 
welder shall appear for a requalification test consequent upon any of the fol 
lowing conditions: -- 


( 1) Change from one welding process to any other process. 
( ii) An omission or addition of backing strips in single welded butt 

joints . 
(ii) A change in class or type of electrode. 
(iv ) A change from Direct Current to Alternating Current. 
( v ) A change in the base metal to be welded . 
( vi) If during the preceding three months or more the welder has not been 

engaged in welding to the type or class for which he is qualified. 
( vii) If there is some specific rcason to question the welder s ability . 


608. Age and experience . A candidate who wishes to quallfy for a certif 
cate under these regulations shall not be below the age of 21 years, and shall 
satisfy the Inspecting Authority that he had been employed as a welder in a 
workshop or firm for a period of not less than two years . 


609 . Tests for initial qualification of a welder. - - ( a ) Theoretical Examina 
tion . - A welder shall be required to appear in a written test on the following 
subjects : 

1. Electric Welder . 
(i ) Welding Regulations, as prescribed under the Indian Boiler Regula 

tions, 1950 . 
(11 ) Construction and working of welding equipment. 
( iii) Properties of material to be welded - cold and hot working, thermal 

conductivity , fusion point, oxidation . 
( iv ) Electro - technical principles. - kinds of current, striking arc voltage , 

welding -arc voltage , magnetic arc blow . 
( v ) Welding defects and their prevention influence of length of elec 

tric arc, defect of excessive or too low amperage , slag inclusions, 

porosity , finishing the surface of welding head . 
( vi) Filler metals for different steels and joints in different positions. 
( vii ) Testing of welded joints and results to be expected . 
( viil) Accidents and damage to health and methods of preventing their 

occurance . 
2 . Gas welder. 
( 1) Welding Regulations, as prescribed under the Indian Boiler Regula 

tions. 
( 11 ) Construction and working of welding equipment, starting proce 

dures , water - seals , types and construction of torches , gas cylin 
ders, pressure reducing valves, handling cylinders and equip 

ments . 
( iii) Properties of materials to be welded - cold and hot working, ther 

mal conductivity , fusion point, oxidation . 
( iv ) Fuel gases, flame temparature, flame adjustments, favourable wel 

ding zone. 
( v ) Kinds of welds and manufacturing Imperfections 


. 


- . 4 . 1 


, 4 + 1 11, 


v / vie 


w 


., 


21, 1 , 


10 


( vi) Welding methods ( right and left hand ) , welding with two torches 

on vertical surface, excess of gas or oxidation , preheating of base 

material. 
(vii) Filler metals and their various kinds . 
(vlii ) Testing of welded joints and results to be expected . 
(ix ) Accidents and damage to health and methods of preventing their 

occurrence . 
( b ) Practical Examination . 
1 . Material for tests . — The material of plates , tubes , pipes and electrodes 

used for these tests shall contorm to the requirements of appro 

priate Regulations as may be applicable in each case . 
2. Test specimens for initial qualification (Electric or Gas ): 
( a ) For Plate Welding - 
( 1 ) One groove welded joint of two pieces of plates with double Vee or 

double U grooycs on boiler plate 5 / 8 " ( 16 mm ) thick , over a length 
of 15 " ( 381 mm ) in a horizontal down - hand position , size of plates 
to be welded being not less than 9 " x 15 " ( 229 mm x 381 mm ) 

each . 
( ii) One groove welded joint as above , but in the verticle position . 
( iii) One Allet welded joint over a length of 15 " ( 381 mm ) using plates 

of not less than 5 / 8 " ( 16 mm ) in the overhead position . 
(b ) For Pipe Welding. 
( 1) One test of groove welded joint with axis of the pipe in a hori 

zontal position and without rotating the pipe. 
( ii) One test of groove welded joint with axis of the pipe in a verti 

cul position and the scam to be welded in a horizontal circum 

ferential position 
( ill) Onc fillet weld of a branch to a pipe. 
The size of pipe to be welded shall be not less than 5 " ( 127 mm ) in external 
diameter and 3 / 8 " ( 10 mm ) thick , and a branch pipe shall not be less than 31" 
(89 mm ) outside diameter and l" ( 6 mm ) thick . 

( c ) For Tube .Welding. 
A groove welded joint of two boiler tubes with the axis in a vertical 

position and tubes of same size fixed in adjoining positions. The 

welding should be carricd out from one side of the tube only . 
610 . Tests for Requalification . — At a requalification test a welder need not be 
examined in thcoretical subjects , but he shall be required to qualify in the fol 
lowing practical tests : - - 

(a ) Plate Welding . 
A groove welded joint of two pieces of plates not less than 5 / 8 " ( 16 mm ) 

thick over a length of 6 " ( 152 mm ) in a position 45 % to vertical, 
size of plates to be welded being 9 " x 8 " ( 229 mm x 152 mm ) . The 

main welding is to be carried from the underside only . 
( b ) Pipe Welding. 
( i) A groove welded joint with the axis of the pipe in a horizontal posi 

tion and without rotating the pipe. 
¡ ( ii) One fillet weld of a branch to a pipe, as prcscribed in regulation 609 . 
( c ) Tube Welding. 
A groove welded joint of two boilers tubes with the axis in a vertical 

position , and tubes of same size fixed in adjoining positions. The 
welding should be carried out one side of the tube only . 


Testing of Welded Specimens 
611. Initial qualification tests. ( a ) Groove welded plate specimens. -- The 
groove welded plate specimens after welding may be lightly pressed cold to 
remove any distortion due to welding. No heat treatment shall be carried out 
after completion of the welding, 

After visual examination the welded specimen shall be subjected to X - ray 
examination in the manner as provided in Regulation 265 ( b ) . 


IV . 4 1 .... - W124 . TI . UN II Ju . . . to . 11, 1 


1 


. 1 


to 


1, 1 


Thereafter test pieces shall be marked and cut out in the order shown in 
Figure XIII/ 1 . 

The tensilo test specimen shall be prepared and tested as specified in Regu 
lation 259 ( a ) . 

The bend test specimens shall be prepared and tested as per regulation 261. 

Two etch specimens shall be prepared , one for micro and the other for macro 
examination as per regulation 265 ( a ) . 

( b ) Fillet welded plate specimens.-- The dimensions and preparation of the 
Allet-weld test specimen shall conform to Fig . XIII/ 2 . The test specimen shalt 
not contain any visible cracks. It shall be cut transversely to provide a centre 
section 10 in . ( 254 mm ) long and two end sections each approximately 1 in . ( 25 
mm ) long. 

The stem of the 10 in . (254 mm ) centre section shall be loaded laterally in 
such a way that the root of the weld is in tension . The load shall be steadily 
increased until the specimen fractures or bends flat upon itself. In order to 
pass the test : 

( 1 ) The specimen shall not fracture ; or 
( 2 ) if it fractures , the fractured surface shall show no evidence of cracks 

or incomplete root penetration , and the sum of the lengths of inclu 
sions and gas pockets visible on the fractured surface shall not ex 

ceed 2 in . (51 mm ) . 
The cut end of one of the end sections shall be polished and etched with a 
suitable reagent to give a clear definition of the structure of the weld . 
In order to pass the test : 
( 1 ) Visual examination of the cross section of the weld shall show com 

plete fusion at the root and freedom from cracks ; 
( ii ) The weld shall not have a concavity or convexity greater than 1 / 16 

in . ( 1 6 mm ) ; and 
( iii) There shall be not more than 1 / 16 in . ( 1 . 8 mm ) difference in the 

lengths of the legs of the Allet. 
( c ) Groove and fillet welded pipe and tube specimens. — The groove welded 
pipe and tubes specimens shall be marked and test pieces cut out as in Figure 
XIII / 3 . The test pieces shall be prepared for face bend , root bend and etch tests . 

The pieces shall not be flattened , but tested in their curved conditions. The 
penetration bead may be removed to 1 / 32" (0 .8 mm ) proud of the surface af 
the material. 


(1) Visuales for Forty 

of surfaceglas , 


Fillet welded branches shall be tested for : 
(1 ) Visual examination . The test welds so obtained shall be visually exa 

mined for root penetration , freedom from undercut, disposition of 
runs, uniformity of surface, shape of profile , smoothness of joint, 
freedom from cavities and slag , dimensions of weld deposit, quality 
of weld metal (overheating , surface cracks, spongy surface, etc .) . 

Any piece showing serious defect shall be rejected . 
( il) Macro examination . Each branch weld test piece shall be sawn as 

shown in figure XIII / 4 and each portion so produced shall be pre 
pared for macro etching and etched . The macro sections shall then 
be examined for degree of fusion , degree of root penetration , absence 
of non -metallic ( slag ) inclusions, and quality of weld metal. The 
joint should show good root fusion , complete freedom from basal 

cracking, and the absence of any but very minor defects . 
( a ) Additional tests before rejection . Should any of the test pieces tested in 
accordance with the above sub - regulations fail to meet the specified requirements , 
one further strip may be cut from the specimen and subjected to the same test . 

612 . Requalification tests. ( a ) Groove welded plate specimens.--- The welded 
joint shall first be examined under X - ray and thereafter cut to appropriate 
dimensions for conducting the following tests : 

One tensile test, one forward bend test, one reverse bend test, and two macro 
examinations. 


11 , 1 


. . . 


- 


41 ,I 


IV > 


The test piece shall be marked and cut out in the order shown in Figure XIII / 5 
and tested in accordance with the provisions of regulation 611, 

( b ) Fillet welded plate specimen . This shall be conducted as detailed in 
regulation 611 ( b ) . 

( c ) Pipe and Tube welding . - Specimens shall be prepared and tested as pres 
cribed in regulation 611 ( c ) . 

( d ) Additional tests before rejection . Should any of the test pieces tested 
in accordance with the above sub - regulations fail to meet the specified require 
ments, one further strip may be cut from the specimen and subjected to the 
same test. 

613. Awarding of mark8. - Marks shall be awarded in accordance with the 
form XIII / A . Candidates obtaining marks not less than 60 per cent. in the 
theoretical paper and not less than 75 per cent. in the practical tests, shall be 
deemed to have qualified for a certificate . 

The form shall be attested by the Inspecting Authority and fled in his office 
for future reference . 

614 . Award of certificate . On successful completion of the above tests the 
welder shall be awarded a certificate in the form XIII / B . 

Welders who pass the tests for groove welds in plates and pipes shall be con 
- sidered as having qualified for fillet welds in plates or pipes respectively . Weld 
ers who pass the tests for Allet welds, shall be qualified to make Allet welda 
only . 


615 . Maintenance of records . - Every boller manufacturing works shall main 
tain a record of all welding personnel engaged on welding of boilers and steam 
pipes , particulars of each welder in the certificate and the work handled by each 
welder . Such records shall be produced to the Inspecting Authority on demand . 

In the case of welders who undertake welding under their own responsibility , 
the records as aforesaid shall be maintained by themselves. , 

616 . Fees - - All costs incidental to these tests shall be borne by the welder 
himself in addition to such fees as the Inspecting Authority may charge for 
travelling and other incidental expenses for himself and his staff . 

617. Penalty . - ( 1 ) Whoever employs a person in welding a boiler or steam 
pipe in contravention of these regulations shall be punishable with fine which 
may extend to Rs. 100 / - , 

( 2 ) Any welder who fails to produce his certificate when demanded by the 
Inspecting Authority or Inspecting Officer shall be punishable with fine which may 
extend to Rs, 26 / - ., 

( 3 ) Any employer or welder who fails to maintain the records as required 
under regulation 615 shall be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs. 100 / 


FORM XIII / A 
Record of Weldor s Qualification Requalification tests (Indian 

Boiler Regulation No. 613 ) 


Place of test 

Date -- 


. . . . . . . . . . . 


eos 


Name of wolder . . . . . 
Father s name 
Date of birth . . . . , 
Service or experience on Gas/ Electric Arc . . . . . . .. 
Signature of wolder . . . . . 
Names and addresses of the firms where trained . . . . . . . 


, 


. . . . . . 


. 


. . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . YEAR . 


1 . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . 


. . . . 


. . . 


. . . . 


. . . . . . 


. 


1026 lsh GAULTIE U . llule . . . . - 1 11, Iurrent . . L . 1 , 


Tested on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

( Plate, pipe, tube) 
Gas or electric A .C ./ D .C . .. . . 
Kind of test 

. . . .. . . .. . . Position . . .. . . . 
(Groove / Fillet /Branch ) 
Thickness of material used , . . . . . . . . . , Diameter and thickness of pipe , branch or tubes used 


Quality of base material and clectrode or filler rod . . . . 


Results of Observations 
Marks 


Marks 


Maxi- Award 
mum ed 


ed 


C . PHYSICAL TESTS 


13 . Tensile test . 
14 . Facc bend test . 
15 . Root bend test , 


, 


D . ETCH TEST 


Maxi- Award 

mum 
A . PROCEDURE 
I . Preparation of specimen 
2 . Size & grade of clectrode 

or filler rod . . . 
3 . Number of runs and mani 

pulation of control . . 
B . VISUAL INSPECTION 
4 . Root penetration 
5 . Freedom from undercut 
6 . Disposition of runs , 
7 . Uniformity of surface . 
8 . Shape of profile . 
9 . Shape of profile . 
9 . Smoothinees of Joint . 
10 . Freedom from cavities & 

slag , . , , 
II. Dimensions of weld deposit. 
12 . Quality of weld metal (Over 

heating , surfacc cracks, spongy 
surface etc .) . . . 4 


16 . Disposition of runs 
17 . Degree of fusion , 
18 . Root penctration 
19 . Slag inclusions and poro 


sity 


E . FRACTURED SURFACE 


20. Quality of weld metal ( Ex 

cessive oxidation carburisa 
tion , overheating, roughness , 
porosity , appearance ). . 


100 


Signature of the Inspecting Officer. 


OBSERVATION ON RADIOGRAPHIC EXAMINATION ( if conducted ). . . . . . 


Marks awarded 
GENERAL REMARKS OF INSPECTING AUTHORITY . 


... . . . . . . 


, , . . . . . 


. . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . 


. . . 111 


HS OI DIECI 


W 


IU 


... . . . . . . .. 
" TYPE AND CLASS OF WELDING QUALIFIED 

. . . . . . . . . . in Gas or Electric Arc welding , 
PERIOD OF VALIDITY OF CERTIFICATE 

FROM . . . . . . . . . . ... ... TO . . . . . . . 
PLACE . . . . . ... . . . . . . 
DATE . . . . 

SIGNATURE OF INSPECTING AUTHORITY 


Sac . 3 ] | THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1967 /VAISAKHA 21, 1879 1027 


FORM No. XIII/B 
Qualified Boiler Welder s Certificate 


ISSUED UNDER 
THE INDIAN BOILER REGULATIONS, 1950 * 


Photo 


Name of welder . . . . . . . 


Passport 


Size 


Father s name . . . . 


Date of birth . . . . . . . . . . . 


Seal and 
Signature of 
Inspecting 
Authority 


Identification 
marks . . . . . . . . . . 


Weight . ... . . . 


Signature of welder 
Address of welder . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


Period of validity 


Signature of Inspecting 


From 


TO 


Officer 


Authority 


This is to certify that Shri. . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . son of 
Shri . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . .has been examined 
and tested in the prescribed manner in the presence of . . . ... . . 

( Inspecting Authority Officer ) 
and is deemed to have satisfactorily proved his ability to make sound welds as per particulars given 
below . Granted this — 

day of - - 

- 19 , 
under the seal and authority of 

Inspecting Authority . 


Scal 


1028 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11 , 1937 / VAISAKHA 21, 1870 


[ PART 1 


* Particulars : 


* Particulars shall contain Information on the following — 
Tested on 

Plate /Pipe / Tube 
Dato 
Material 

Mild steel or alloy steel 
Process 
Clans of welding 
Backing strip 
Electrode 

Class 
Filler rod 

Type 


Period of validity 


Signature of Inspecting 


From 


то 


Officer 


Authority 


Employment particulars 


From 


To 


Name of 
Employer 


Work on 
which engaged 


Signature of 
employer 


No. 


( şd.) Illegible 
Secretary 


-- 


1o 


"WW 


u. 


.. 


REMAINDER FOR RE - TESTS 
IF REQUIRED . 


.JDIA...AsId,I 


VAASA 


- 406mm (1501 

FIG . X/11/1 
ORDER OF REMOVAL OF TEST 
SPECIMEN FROM TEST PLATE 
FOR INITIAL QUALIFICATION TEST 


1,10, 


79 


QEor 


- -- 


DIRECTION OF BENDING -- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


.. 


1. 


MACRO TEST SPEC . 


m mon 
Dom 


END OF DEPOSIT 
WITH FIRST 
ELECTRODE 


254mm 


-- 


lunGauolloUNLL.DIA..A.11,TUI,VALAKAu1,1.. 


- 300MM ( 2 ) 


-- 


-- 


-76mm 


- 


MAX. FILLET WELO 


bbc . 

co 


FIG . XII /2 
FILLET WELD SOUNDNESS TEST FOR PERFORMANCE QUALIFICATION OF WELDERS 
FRACTURE TEST : MAXIMUM PERWISS /BLE DEFECTS SUCH AS SLAG , NON - FUSION , ETC . - 
20 PERCENT OR 2 INCHS. EVIDENCE OF CRACKING OF FILLET SHALL CONSTITUTE 
GROUNDS FOR REJECTION . 
MACEO TEST : THE FILLES SHALL SHOW FUSION TO THE ROOT CONVEXITY INOLOR 
COWCAVITY OF THE FILLET SHALL NOT EXCEED VA INCH , BOTH LEGS OF THE FILLET 
SHALE AE EQUAL TO WITHIN INCH, 


LA..11 


FACE GENO TEST 


Sec.3] 


- MACRO 


3 


POOT ASAL 

TES 


- ROOT AEND TEST 


- 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY11,1967/VAISAKHA21,1879 


MACRO 


FACE BEND TEST. 

FIG . Xull 3 
ORDER OF REMOVAL OF TEST SPECIMENS FROM WELDED PIPE 


1031 


: 


. 


1032 


+ GIN 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY11,1957/VAISAKHA21,1879 


LONGITUDINAL CUT IN 

IN MAY BE FLANE 
ITIF DESIRED 
- XONEN. VIN 


OUTSIDE 14 , 
OF MAIN : 21 


TEE TO BE CUT INTO 4 PIECES 
ALL CUTS MUST BE SANN 


terte 

OUTSIDE DIA . 
- OF BRANCH : 02 

FIG . X1 / 4 
· ARANCH WELO ŚÆCIMEN FOR ARAYCH PIPES 


[PARTII 


Sec. 31 | THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 11, 1957 /VAISAKHA 21,- 1879 1033 


305mmyzu) 


5/111X915 


QEDEROFREMOVALOFTEST SPECIMENFROHTESTPLATE, 
FOR 
RE 
- 
QUALIFICATION 
TEST 
, 


a1{ 


- wy 


( No. S & P -II/BL -20 (17) / 56 .] 
New Delhi, the 30th April , 1957 
S .R .O . 1509.- - The follow ng draft of a further amendment to the Indian Boiler 
Regulations, 1950, which the Central Boilers Board proposes to make in exer 
cise of the power conferred by section 28 of the Indian Boilers Act, 1923 ( 5 of 
1923 ) , is published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 31 of the Said Act , 
for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice 1 $ 
hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
1 - 8 - 1957. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Boilers Board . Such Objections or suggestions should be addressed to the 
Secretary , Central Boilers Board, Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply , North 
Block , New Delhi. 

Draft Amendment 
In the said Regulations 

For Clause ( a ) of regulation 394 , the following clause shall be substituted , 
namely : — 
1994 . Inspections of steam pipes . - ( a ) Steam pipes shall be inspected and 

hydraulically tested before erection in place, the test pressure to be 
that prescribed in the Standard Conditions for steam pipes . A certi 
ficate from the Inspecting Authority or a recognised maker in Form 
IIIA stating that this has been done may be accepted . If the Ins 
pector is satisfied with the test, the pipes may be erected in position , 
at the steam test of the boiler he shall examine them under steam 
pressure. No separate certificate for the steam pipes shall be issued , 
nor shall a separate fee be charged for their inspection ." 

[No. BL - 304 ( 21) /54 ( li ). ] 
M . N . KALE , Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY TILE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DCLIII AND PUBLISHLD BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1957 


