Reg . No.GR /RNP /GOA /32 


RNI NO . GOAENG /2002 /6410 


Panaji, 22nd March , 2006 (Chaitra 1, 1928 ) 


SERIEST No.50 


TEREST 


sa station 


GOVERNMENT 


GOA. 


OFFICIAL 


GAZETTE 


OF 


GOVERNMENT OF GOA 


EXTRAORDINARY 


GOVERNMENT OF GOA 


of a film or as per the relevant provisions made in 
Schedule I hereto , whichever is less . Similarly, a 
producer shall claim financial assistance for only 
one film project during a given financial year. 


Department of Information and Publicity 


Notification 


DI/ INF/ Sch - Fin - Film /05-06 / 7242 


The Government of Goa hereby notify the 
scheme to provide financial assistance for 
production of filmsoriginating in Goa , as follows: 


(iii ) The Department of Information & Publicity 
of the Government of Goa shall arrange for the 
necessary budget provision for disbursement of 
financial aid to the registered film producers 
wishing to avail of the financial help from the 
government for producing feature films in Konkani 
or Marathi and non - feature Films including 
tele - films, short films & documentaries in 
Konkani, Marathi, English & Hindi in Goa as per 
Schedule I , hereto , 


1. Title, applicability and duration.- ( 1) The 
scheme shall be called the Goa Scheme of 
Financial Assistance for Films 2006 ( for the 
production of feature films in Konkani and Marathi 
and non -feature films including tele - films, short 
films and documentaries in Konkani, Marathi, 
English and Hindi). 


(iv ) The scheme is also applicable to all the films 
screened at the Goa State Film Festival 2005 subject 
to Rule 12 ( A ) and those which have not received 
grants from the Konkani Academy. 


: 


(2 ) The scheme shall apply to films originating 
and produced in Goa by Goan producers . 


- 


( v ) The Producers making feature films or non 
-feature films in more than one of the approved 
languages as above (bilingual) simultaneously , 
shall be able to claim financial assistance for only 
one of the films. 


( 3 ) It shall be operative annually and remain in 
force till March 2010 , after which it may be 
reviewed or redesigned as the need may be. 


3. Definitions. In the scheme, unless the 
context, otherwise refers , 


2. Aims and objectives of the Scheme.- (i) To 
regulate grant of financial assistance to Goan film 
makers with a view to encouraging production of 
quality celluloid as well as tele films, short films, 
documentaries, etc. and to boost the image of the 
State of Goa in the film world ; 


(a ) " Department" means the Department of 
Information and Publicity of the Government of 
Goa ; 


(ii ) The scheme envisages grant of financial 
assistance upto 50 percent of the cost ofproduction 


(b ) " Financial Assistance " , means financial 
assistance given by the Department to film 
producers in Goa ; 


SSMATES . 


..950 
SERIES I No. 50 


PIESTNE 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE GOVT. OF GOA 

(EXTRAORDINARY ) 


22ND MARCH , 2006 


( C ) " Scheme" means the Scheme specially 
formulated by the Department for giving 
financial assistance for production of feature 
films in Konkani or Marathi, English and Hindi 
by Goan producers and non - feature films, 
documentaries etc. in Konkani, Marathi. 


(1) " Finance Committee" means a Committee 
duly constituted by the Department to look into 
the financial aspects of the film production and 
to make recommendations to the Department 
for the quantum of financial help to be released 
afterperusing the assessment reports submitted 
by the Screening Committee . 


(m ) " Registration Form " means a form issued 
by the Department for the purpose of enrolling 
the film producers . 


(d ) “ Producer " means an individualperson , a 
partnership firm , a limited company or a society 
registered under the Societies Registration Act , 
1860 ( 21 of 1860) having the registered office in 
the State of Goa and satisfying such other 
provisions as may be laid down. A producer 
should have filed Income Tax Returns in Goa 
Region for the last 3 years and in case of 
individual producer should have also 15 years 
domicile in Goa . 


(n ) " Application Form " means a form issued 
by the Department for applying for financial 
assistance for production of films. 


(e ) " Registered " , means a producer or a 
partnership firm , limited company or a society 
registered under the Societies Registration Act , 
1860 who has registered with the Department 
as a film producer ; 


4. Procedure , terms and conditions governing 
the scheme: ( 1 ) The films should have been 
originally produced in Konkani or Marathi. A 
dubbed version of a pre -produced film shall not 
be eligible to claim benefit of this scheme. Any 
remake of the film already produced in any other 
language , shall not be considered under this 
Scheme. This condition shall apply to feature films 
and non -feature films including tele - films; 
documentaries, etc. 


means 


a 


(f) " Registration number " : 
registration code number allotted by the 
Department to the registered film producers ; 


(2 ) The detailed synopsis of the film alongwith 
the bio - data of the screenplay and dialogue writer , 
director and producer should be submitted to the 
Department for the purpose of initial approval; 


( g ) " Artistes means and includes actors , 
actresses, screenplay writers , lyrics writers , 
cameramen , asst . cameramen , production 
assistants , art directors and all other technical 
and non -technical staff associated with the film 
production ; 


( 3) The final and detail screenplay , dialogue and 
details of scheduling , lacations, casting etc. should 
be submitted within the specified time frame after 
the first approval. 


(h ) " Film Director , means a person directing 
the film ; 


(i) " Story Writer " means a person writing the 
story for the film ; 


( 4 ) The technical details like the format on which 
the film is to be shot should also be submitted 
alongwith the application . 


6 ) " Goan origin " , means a person born in Goa 
and , if not born in Goa, a person who has 15 
years domicile in Goa . This also includes a 
partnership firm having majority of the partners 
asGoans or a limited company registered in Goa 
under the Companies Act , 1956 and having 
majority directors as Goans provided they have 
filed their Income Tax Returns in the Goa region 
for the past 3 years . 


(5 ) The Producer producing any film shall have 
to do at least 50 % of the shooting within the State 
of Goa . The films produced under the financial 
assistance provided under this Scheme should 
have relevance to Goa .“ 


(6 ) The Producer wishing to avail the financial 
assistance shall have to fill in an application form 
as per Schedule II hereto and submit all the 
enclosures mentioned therein . 


a 


(k ) " Screening Committee" means 
Committee duly constituted by the Department 
to evaluate the standard of the scripts and 
authenticity of the proposals submitted by the 
film producers . 


( 7 ) The Screening Committee shall examine all 
the documents related to script submitted with the 
application for the financial assistance and give 
its recommendations . 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE GOVT. OF GOA 

(EXTRAORDINARY) 


951 
22ND MARCH , 2006 


SERIES I No. 50 


( 8 ) The Screening Committee shall forward its 
approval/ disapproval of the film projects to the 
Department . The Department in turn shall submit 
the approved proposal to the Finance , Committee 
for its recommendations. The Finance Committee 
shall convey its recommendations to the 
Department for necessary action , provided the 
applicants have complied with sub - clause ( 3 ) and 
(4 ) of Clause 4 of this Scheme. 


( 1 ) A detailed statement showing the 
expenditure incurred by the applicant/Producer 
duly audited by a Chartered Accountant 
certifying that the accounts have been verified 
by him /her and certified to be true . 


( 2 ) An Undertaking /Affidavit issued by 
the Producer to the effect that 50 % of the film 
was filmed within the State ofGoa . If necessary 
film will be screened for Director of Information 
and Publicity or any other person nominated 
by him . 


. 


( 9 ) Once the Finance Committee grants its 
approval, the Department shall inform the 
Producer about the sanction of the financial 
assistance and also intimate the time framewithin 
which the shooting is to be completed . The 
Producers shall submit to the Department the 
edited tape or VCD or DVD along with the 
Certificate from the Central Board of Film 
Certification , Government of India . 


( 3 ) Certified copy ofthe Censorship Certificate 
issued by the Central Board of Film Certification 
- Government of India 


. 


( B ) New applicants / producers wishing to avail 
the financial assistance under this Scheme should · 
submit the following documents to the Department 
for the release of the installments . 


( 10 ) The Director of Information and Publicity 
shall disburse the financial assistance in one 
installment for the films which are already 
screened at the Goa Film Festival 2005 and for new 
applications in maximum three installments as per 
the following schedule : 


( 1 ) For release of the first installment. 
Invoice / Bill raised by the supplier of raw stock 
amounting to a maximum of 50 % of the total 
amount of financial assistance sanctioned ; 


(i) Towards the cost of raw material; 


(ii ) Towards the studio and laboratory 
charges; 


( 2 ) For release of the second installment. 
Invoice /Bill raised by the studio / laboratory 
towards post production costs amounting to a 
maximum of 40 % of the financial assistance ; 


(ii ) On production of censor certificate . 


( 3 ) For release of the final installment: 
Amounting to balance of 10 % of the financial 
assistance sanctioned towards the production 
of film after the presentation of : 


( 11 ) The amount towards (i) & (ü ) mentioned in 
sub clause ( 10 ) above shall be paid directly to the 
supplier of raw stock and / or the laboratory / studio , 
etc. on submission of bills / invoices . No part of this 
amount shall be paid to the Producer directly in 
case of new applications. 


(i) Statement of expenses incurred and duly 
audited by the Chartered Accountant and 
verified by him /her certifying the correctness 
of the same. 


Note : The scheme does not envisage payment of 
financial assistance directly to the Producers but only 
indirectly towards the cost of production of the film on 
the basis of Schedule I hereto for items like supply ofraw 
stock , laboratory / studio charges etc. 


( ii ) Censor Certificate issued by Central 
Board of Film Certification - Government of 
India . 


(iii ) Censored copy of the film in VCD or DVD 
format for the records of the Department. 


( 12 ) The amount of financial assistance shall be 
disbursed , whether in part or in full, on production 
of the following documents : 


( A ) In case of disbursement of financial 
assistance in one installment on completion of the 
film , the following documents should be submitted . 
This is applicable only to those films which were 
screened at the Goa Film Festival 2005 : 


( 13 ) All producers / applicants availing financial 
assistance from the Department shall have to 
submit an authority letter authorising the 
Department to screen their films at the Goa State 
Film Festival as and when announced . In case of 
any objection being raised to such screening or 
refusal to participate in the Goa Film Festival after 


952 
SERIES I No. 50 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE - GOVT. OF GOA 

(EXTRAORDINARY ) 


22ND MARCH , 2006 


receiving financial assistance from the 
Department , no further financial assistance shall 
be given by the Department for any further 
projects of films of such Applicant/ Producer. 


in India provided this benefit is given to the 
producer concerned for a maximum of two 
occasions. 


( 14 ) In case if any Applicant /Producer availing 
a part of financial assistance from the Department 
and does not complete the film , the Department 
shall have the right to initiate legal recovery 
proceedings and recover such amounts paid to 
him /her by it . 


(d ) Rs. 20,00,000 /- if a film ( celluloid ) wins an 
award at the national level/ international level 
and Rs. 2,00,000 / - if the tele - film , short film or 
documentary wins an award at the national 
level/ international level/in specific categories . 


(e ) Rs. 30,00,000 /- if a film (celluloid ) wins a 
National award in the General Category. 


( 15 ) In the event of any dispute arising between 
the applicant/producer and the Department the 
same shall be subject to the jurisdiction of Courts 
in Panaji only . 


(1) Rs. 50,000 / - if a individual artiste wins an 
award at the national level for films (celluloid ) 
and Rs. 25,000 /- if the individual artiste wins an 
award at the national level for tele - film , short 
film or documentary . 


( 16 ) The Producer shall produce a bond in the 
prescribed form as regards the completion of the 
film in the agreed time schedule , meeting all the 
technical details of film production as per approved 
letter. 


(20 ) The Governmentmay make law or issue an 
ordinance to make theatres available for the 
release of celluloid films so that producers will get 
a theatre for one week in each city or village. The 
producer has to intimate to the theatre owner 
about his exhibition plans one month in advance : 
The suggestion is that the theatre owners and 
producers should share income equally , thereof. 


. ( 17) The financial assistance under this Scheme 
shall be applicable for filmsproduced and screened 
at the Goa Film Festival 2005. The filmswhich have 
availed of any grant under any Government 
Scheme or from Konkani Academy shall not be 
eligible to claim / receive further financial assistance 
under this Scheme. 


(21 ) The Governmentmay exempt all filmsmade 
in Goa by Goan producers from Entertainment Tax , 
VAT, etc. 


( 18 ) Before the disbursement of 1st installment, 
the Applicant / Producer shall have to submit to the 
Department the details as to the sources from 
where the balance 50 % of the cost of the production 
of the films shall be raised . 


(22 ) The Government may make necessary 
provision to facilitate all Goan film producers 
registered with the Department to avail of the 
outdoor and indoor shooting by paying a nominal 
charge of Rs. 1,000 / - per film . 


( 19 ) Additional assistance may be provided by 
the Government as per the following details to 
promote good cinema: 


( 23 ) Under this Scheme, the Department may 
give financial assistance to six feature films on 
celluloid in Konkani and Marathi each . 10 tele - films 
in Konkani and Marathi each and 10 short films in 
all the approved languages put together, in a given 
financial year. 


( a ) Rs. 5,000 / - per show for theatre release 
and screening of feature film (celluloid ) upto a 
maximum of 100 shows and Rs . 2000 / - per show 
for tele - films.upto a maximum of 50 shows; 


( b ) Rs. 5,00,000 / - if a feature film (celluloid ) is 
screened at the IFFI or abroad . Rs. 1,00,000 / - if 
the tele - film , short film and documentary is 
screened at the IFFI or any other international 
film festival held abroad ; 


( 24 ) The Screening Committee may consist of 
one professional screenplay writer from the film 
industry , two literary persons, i.e. one each in 
Konkani and Marathi and one technical person 
preferably , a film director of high standing. 


( c ) Rs. 3,00,000 /- if a film (celluloid ) is screened 
at any other recognised film festival in India and 
Rs . 25,000 /- if the tele - film / short / documentary 
is screened at any other recognised film festival 


( 25 ) The Finance Committee may consist of a 
technical person with financial background, the 
Chairman of the Committee appointed by the 
Government to draw up the financial assistance 
scheme for films and two other persons of known 
integrity . 


... :-) 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE GOVT. OF GOA 

(EXTRAORDINARY) 


953 
22ND MARCH , 2006 


SERIES I No. 50 


From time to time, the Arbitrator may, with the 
consent of both the parties to these presents , 
extend the time for making the award . The award 
of the Arbitrator shall be a reasoned award and it 
shall be final and binding on the parties to these 
presents . Subject as aforesaid , the Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1966 (26 of 1996 ) and the rules 
made there under shall apply to the arbitration 
proceedings under this clause : 


5. Arbitration Clause. In the event of any 
dispute or difference arising out of or, in an way 
relating to or concerning these presents or the 
construction or effect of these presents , the same 
shall be referred to the sole arbitration of a person 
appointed by the government . The Producer will 
not be entitled to raise objection an any such 
appointment on the ground that the sole arbitrator 
is a servant of the government or that he had dealt 
with the matters to which these presents relate or 
that in the course of his duties as such servant He 
had expressed views on all or any of the matters . 
in dispute or difference . In the event of such 
arbitrator being transferred or vacating his office 
or refusing or being unable to act for any reason 
whatsoever, it will be open to the government to 
appoint another person in his place. The Arbitrator 
so appointed will be entitled to proceed with the 
reference from the stage at which it was pending . 


This has been issued with the concurrence 
of Finance (Exp .) Department under their U.O. 
No. 1195 /F dated 17-03-2006 . 


By order and in the name of Governor 

ofGoa . 


Menino Peres, Director (Information and 
Publicity ) & ex officio Jt. Secretary. 


Panaji, 21st March , 2006 . 


SCHEDULE I 


( See Clause 2 ) 


Feature Film Category (above 90 min ) 


Rs . 20 lakhs 


Rs . 20 lakhs 


If filmed on 35 mm celluloid , maximum financial aid 
If filmed on 35 mm celluloid with Dolby,maximum financial aid 
If filmed on 16 mm celluloid , maximum financial aid 
If filmed on Digi-Beta or HD format ,maximum financial aid 
If filmed on Digital format (DVC pro ),maximum financial aid 


Rs . 15 lakhs 


Rs. 4 lakhs 


Rs . 1 lakh 


For short film & documentary ( above 30 min ) 


Rs. 5 lakhs 


If filmed on 35 mm celluloid ,maximum financial aid 
If filmed on 16 mm celluloid ,maximum financial aid 
If filmed on Digi-Beta or HD format, maximum financial aid 


Rs. 3lakhstan 


Rs . 1 lakh 


For short film & documentary (below 30 min ) 


Rs. 3 lakhs 


If filmed on 35 mm celluloid ,maximum financial aid 
If filmed on 16 mm celluloid ,maximum financial aid 
If filmed on Digi- Beta or HD format ,maximum financial aid 


Rs . 2 lakh 


Rs. 50,000 


Note : Relaxation for films on Beta format and screened for Goa Film Festival 2005 will get maximum grant in aid of Rs. 3.5 lakhs. 


954 
SERIES I No. 50 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE GOVT. OF GOA 

(EXTRAORDINARY ) 


22ND MARCH , 2006 


SCHEDULE II 


( See Clause 6 ) 


Department of Information & Publicity 


Government ofGoa 


APPLICATION FOR AVAILING GRANT IN AID /FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR PRODUCTION OF FILMS BY GOAN 
PRODUCERS 


1. Name of the producer 

Age .. 


Sex 


2.Address 


Office : 


Tel: 


Residence : 


Tel : 


3. Rep.by ..... 


d 


4. Registration code no - with Department of Information 


5. Whether Individual/Partnership /Ltd . Co./Society 


6. Type of film you propose to make : Feature /Short Film / Documentary 


7. In what format will it be filmed digital/Betacam /Digi-beta / celluloid etc. 


8. Duration of film : 


Hrs .. 


Min .... ........ Sec . 


9. Have you produced any celluloid film or video film earlier : Yes /No . 

In case of " yes " give details of the film ...... 


10. Was your film censored : Yes /No . : 


11. Has your film participated in any Goan /National/ International Film Festival: Yes /No. 

In case of " yes " give details 


12.Has your film won any awards in the festival : Yes /No . 

If " yes" give details : 


13. Have you ever before availed subsidy for producing films from the Government of Goa or any Government agency : 

Yes /No . If " yes " give details 


14. Name of the film you propose to produce for which you are applying for financial assistance: 


15. Whether the film is Original/Remake /Dubbed : 


16.Whether the film is based on any Novel then Title & Author s name... 


17. Language ofthe Film : 


18. Totalcost of the film : 


19. Amount of financial assistance applying for production of the film : 

( Attach separate sheet giving details .) 


20. Details of expenditure you are going to incur for production ofthe film : 

(Attach separate sheet ) 


21. Details of balance amount to be raised by producer 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE GOVT. OF GOA 

(EXTRAORDINARY ) 


955 
22ND MARCH , 2006 


SERIES I No. 50 


22. NameofDirector who willbe directing your film and his /her address : 


(also attach his /her bio - data on separate sheet ) 


23 . 


Name and addresses of following with bio -data 


1. Name of the Story Writer 


2. Name ofthe Screenplay writer 


3. Nameof Lyrics writer 


4. Name of Dialogues writer 


5. Name ofMusic Director .. 


6 : How many songs you propose to include in the film : 


7. Name of Choreographer if any : 


8. Name ofDirector of photography : 


9. List of the main actors with their character name in the film 


24. When do you propose to startwith the shooting : 

Please enclose shooting schedule . 


25. Time required for shooting of the film : 


26. Time required for post production : 


27. When do you expect the film to be release for public : 


28. When do you expect the film to get ready and duly censored :Month : 


Year 


.. 


29. Within how manymonths you expect to complete the film from the date of receipt of first installment : 


I /WE HEREBY DECLARE THAT WHATEVER INFORMATION PROVIDED IN THIS FORM IS CORRECT TO THE 
BEST OF MY /OUR KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF AND NO PART OF IT IS FALSE (if the information given is found to 
be false the application shall be rejected ) 


Date : 


Signature of the Producer 


Seal 


CHECK LIST OF DOCUMENTS ENCLOSED WITH APPLICATION FORM 


1. Synopsis - Story 
2. Screenplay 
3. Bio -data of Story Writer 
4. Bio - data of the Producer 
5. Bio - data of the Director 
6. Bio -data of the Music Director 
7. Bio -data of the Director of Photography 
8. Bio - data ofthe Editor 
9. Bio - data ofthe Lyricist 
10. Bio -data of the Art Director 
11. Projected expenditure 
12. Shooting schedule 


956 
SERIES I No. 50 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE GOVT. OF GOA 

(EXTRAORDINARY ) 


22ND MARCH , 2006 


DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION AND PUBLICITY 


Government of Goa 


APPLICATION FORM FOR REGISTRATION OF FILM PRODUCERS 


1. Name ofthe producer 

Age 


Sex 


2. Address 


Office : 


Tel: 


Residence : 


Tel : 


3. Rep . By . 


4. State whether Individual, Partnership , Limited Co. or Society 


5.Have you produced any Films/Dramas/Musical program /any events : Yes /No. If yes , give 

details : 


6. Whether you intend to produce video films or celluloid films ? 


7. In which language you intend to produce the film ? 

Konkani/Marathi/Hindi/English : 


8. Any other information you wish to give to consider your application for registration as film producer: 


I /WE HEREBY DECLARE THAT WHATEVER INFORMATION PROVIDED IN THIS FORM IS CORRECT TO THE 
BEST OF MY/OUR KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF AND NO PART OF IT IS FALSE ( if the information given is found to 
be false the application shall be rejected ). 


(Name of the Film Producer) 


GOVERNMENT PRINTING PRESS, 

PANAJI - GOA . 
Price : Rs. 8.00 


