tfo 222 IT- 3 - C WJ xrj'fff ,< 


REGISTERED No. D. 222. 


» ( 81 


9TRcT ^ ?I3RS 

(His (Baxettc of J?ndia 


5Tlf«W!TT R RST/STt! 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


flic 4 6] iff firwft, 5lfa*H, 15, 1969/^TfdV 24, 1891 

So. 46] NBW DELHI, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 196P/KARTIKA 24, i)»9i 


wrr $ fR^r 'ps hw *r ^nrft | fuT?! Ftt «T5 $ wr ^rr r% i 

St-p »rate paging Is given to this Part In order that It may be filed 
as a separate compilation. 


srm II — 3 — (ii) 

PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (U) 

(rw R^mu v) una BX^n * *mr?irff vftr (fliu M* hstthr ^ 

qUfflSr STTftlWTWli JTtfT ITT YT fat* Ot> f«T%» nl^BT Wit uLt DThlb I 


suatutory orders and notifications issued Hv the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 


New Delhi, the 30 th October 19t9 

S.O- 4542- --In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order, pronounced on the 14th 
May, 1969, by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, in Election Petition 
No. 14 of 1967. 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF .JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD 
CIVIL SIDE 
Original Jurisdiction 

Dated Allahabad the , 14th day of May, J9G9 
Present 

The Hon'ble T, Ramabhadran — Judge. 

Election Petition No. 14 of 1967 
Order on the application of Sri S. N. Misra — Petitioner. 

In Re. 


Sri S. N. Misra — Petitioner. 

Versus 

Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia and others — Respondents. 



4922 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Pari II— 


By the Court 

This is in continuation of my Order of 31st January 1H69 . Whereby the (Regis- 
trar of this Court was directed to make suitable arrangements, for all the votes 
cast in this disputed election to be re-scrutinised and re-counted in accordance 
with the relevant rules and regulations. Under the supervision of a senior officer 
of this Court Additional Registrar or Joint Registrar and ii? the presence of the 
contesting parties. I had further directed that a report snould be submitted to 
me in due course to enable me to proceed iurther — showing the number of valid 
votes secured by each candidate. 

In pursuance of the above order, the Additional Registrar, assisted by the 
Joint Registrar of the Court have re-scrut.lnised and recounted all the votes cast 
in this disputed election. The Additional Registrar has submitted his report dated 
27th March 19(39. Which is accompanied by a chart showing the number of valid 
votes secured by each candidate as also the lotal number of disputed ballot 
papers. A futher reference to this chart will be made in due course. On 28th 
March 1909, the Election Petitioner submitted an application (marked A-263) 
wherein, it has been stated that even if all the disputed ballot papers (number- 
ing 404) — as indicated in the report of the Additional Registrar are held to be 
votes not cast for the election Petitioner, even then it would be found that he had 
secured a majority of the valid votes east at the election. It was accordingly 
prayed that further orders be passed. 

The case came up for hearing on 4th April 1969, when the learned counsel for 
the parties prayed that copies of the report submitted by th e Additional Regis- 
trar be made available to them to enable them to study It and make their sub- 
missions. That request was granted. When the case again came up on 8th April 1909 
Slirl Raleshji Vaima, learned counsel for the contesting respondent prayed for and 
was granted time till the 10th instant to file objections to the report of the Addi- 
tional Registrar. Sri Varma undertook to furnish the Election Petitioner with a 
copy of his objections by the evening of the 14th instant. Learned counsel for 
the Election Petitioner was further permitted to file a rejoinder, if any, thereto 
within a day or two thereafter. 

A copy of the objections preferred by respondent No. 2 Sri Nathu Singh was 
delivered to the Election Petitioner on 14th April 1969, but the objections in 
original were presented to this Court only on 23rd April 1969. Sri Rajeshji 
Varma, learned counsel for respondent No. 2, submitted that It was due to a mis- 
understanding that the original objections were not presented to Court on 15th 
April 1969, as Indicated In this Court’s order of 8th April 1969. In this connection 
he pointed out that copies of his objections were actually delivered to the peti- 
tioner on 14th April 1969 as directed by this court in its order of 8th April 1969. 
He added that he was under the impression that the objections should be filed In 
Court only when the case was listed for further hearing.. In the circumstances, 
the de ay in filing the objections were condoned, as the copy of the objections was 
delivered to the Election Petitioner in good time and it did not appear that any 
prejudice was caused to him or anybody else. 


Along with the objections, there was an application numbered as A-269, where 
in this Court was requested to send specimen ballot papers of Knmalganj Segment, 
along with specimen ballot papers of the other segments, to a Paper and Printing 
Technologist for examination and report as to whether the two sets of ballot 
papers were similar as regards the Quality of the papers, printing, ink and the 
numbering of the ballot papers. By means of another application presented on 
the same day (numbered as A-272) the contesting respondent No. 2 sought the 
leave of this Court to amend his written statement by the addition of a new 
paragraph thereto, in the following terms: — - 

“That the election petitioner Is not entitled to be declared elected on the 
basis of general re-count of votes at Kamalgunj Segment as the said 
ballot papers are spurious, inasmuch as neither the paper is the same, 
nor the ink is the same, nor is the printing same.” 

On 23rd April 1969, the Election Petitioner filed his rejoinder to the objections 
filed by Sri Varma- 

Arguments of the learned counsel of the parties were heard at some length on 
the 23rd and 24th April, 1969 whereafter judgment was reserved. I now proceed 
to deliver judgment. 



Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4923 


The objections filed by respondent No. 2 Sri Nathu Singh were to the following 
effect : ■ — 

(a) That ballot paper of Karnalganj Segment differed from the ballot papers of 
other segments as regards the quality of paper and the printed matter. 

(b) A large number of packets, .containing ballot papers were not found pro- 
perly sealed. The seals of many ehvelopes were found either missing or in n 
broken condition. 

(e) The Additional Registrar did not check the serial numbers of the ballot 
papers with reference to Form 16 prepared during the counting soon after the 
polling in 1967. A specific request, in this behalf had been made to him, but he 
(Additional Registrar) did not take note of that suggestion. On th e other hand, 
be proceeded with the counting in a “mechanical” way, without applying his mind. 

(d) A large number of ballot papers were accepted by the Additional Registrar 
as valid voles cast in favour of election petitioner, despite the objections thereto 
raised by the contesting respondent. Similarly a large number of ballot papers, 
which should have been accepted as valid votes for respondent No. 1 Dr. Lohia 
were rejected by the Additional Registrar. If a re-scrutiny and re-count of all 
the ballot papers was done in an “Intelligent manner” as opposed to a “mechani- 
cal manner” — then it would be found that Dr. Loliia, and not the election peti- 
tioner, had secured a majority of valid votes. 

It was, accordingly, prayed at the loot of the objections that the report and 
the chart submitted by the Additional Registrar be rejected and the objection be 
permitted to lead evidence in support of his Objections. 

As indicated earlier, the objections were accompanied by a written request 
(vide, application A-269) that specimen ballot papers of Karnalganj Segment be 
sent to a Paper and Printing Technologist, along with specimen ballot papers of 
other segment for comparison and report regarding the quality of paper printing, 
ink and numbering, mention has already been made of application A-272 made by 
the contesting respondent on the same day (23rd April, 1909) praying for amend- 
ment of his written statement by the introduction of a new paragraph reproduced 
above. 

In his rejoinder dated 23rd April 1969 the election petitioner has traversed all 
the objections raised by the contesting respondent to the report of the Additional 
Registrar The prayer made by respondent No. 2 in his application A-269 i.e. 
that specimen ballot papers of Karnalganj Segment be sent to the Paper and Print- 
ing Technologist for comparison with specimen ballot papers of other segments, 
has been vigorously opposed. 

I heard the arguments of the learned counsel for the parties at considerable 
length, on 23rd April 1969 and the following day. Mr. Rajeshji Verma, Learned 
counsel for the contesting respondent No. 2, made a statement at the bar on 23rd 
Aprli 1969 to the effect that he would coniine his arguments to the objections 
regarding the ballot papers of Karnalganj Segment i.e. to those referred at (a) 
supra- In other words, the objections referred to at (b), (c) and (d) supra were 
not pressed Since, however, the matter Is before me, I have looked into the 
notes recorded by the Joint Registrar during the rc-count. I find that on 21st 
February 1969 Sri Shyam Krishna Pandey, advocate, had lodged a written objec- 
tion before the Additional Registrar to the effect that the packets containing 
ballot papers of Polling Stations Nos. 49 and 48 (Aharua JRajarampur^ were not 
■found properly scaled, i.e. the seal was not on the envelop but on knot the loose 

Sutli. It was further alleged therein that the envelopes torn from one side com- 

Dletely. The Joint Registrar, on the same day made the following note: — 

“The packets were in tom condition at ends. The packets were tied with 

m tli. the knots of which were sealed. The packets were taken out 
of sealed gunny bag which was kept In another gunny bag with seals, 
the lacs of some of which were broken with no sign of tampering. 

Similarly on an objection made by Sri Pandey relating to Dag No. 3, the note 
of the Joint Registrar runs as under: — 

Similar ry on an objection made by Sri Pandey relating to Dag No. 3. the rcte 
Liroken. There was, however, no sign of tampering. When this bag 
was opened, another scaled bac was found inside with the enclosed 
seal. The packets were taken out of this Inner bag.” 



4924 THE OAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


On yet another objection of a similar nature lodged by Sri Pandey, relating 
to Polling Station No. 1 (Dalupur Sultanpur), the note of the Joint Registrar 
was to the following effect: — 

“The packet was tied with sutli. The knot of the Sutli was sealed and that 
seal was intact. The envelope was, however, torn at one end. 
The envlope was taken out of sealed bag.” 

On a written objection lodged by Sri Tej Pratap Singh, counsel for respon- 
dent No. 2, bearing date 20th February, 1969 to the effect that the envelopes con- 
taining ballot papers did not bear proper seals and most of them were in torn 
condition, the note made by the Joint Registrar was as under: — 

“No envelope with improper seals has been pointed to me, 


(Sd.) A. S. Srivastava, 

21-2-1969. 

0 2 A.M.).” 

The learned counsel for the election petitioner submitted that although the 
outer seals of the bags were found broken, in some cases due to frequent handling, 
nevertheless the inner seals were found intact in all cases. He pointed out that 
the entire election record was brought to this Court under armed escort, in pur- 
suance of the order of the Hon’ble Chief Justice dated 24th April, 1967. Shri 
M. P, Tandon, Deputy Registrar of this Court, was specially deputed to proceed 
to Fatehgarh to bring all the ballot papers under armed guard and to hand over 
the papers so brought to the Joint Registrar of this Court. In these circums- 
tances, it was urged by Sri K. L. Misra, no tampering was possible since the 
ballot papers have since then been in the strong room of this Court. In para 21 
of his reply, tc the objections raised to the Additional Registrar's report by 
respondent No. 2, it was stated by the election petitioner that respondent No. 2 
had already made inspection of Form 16 of all the segments of the constituency, 
other than Bidhuna, and they had consequently with them the necessary details. 
It was further asserted therein that no further application was made before the 
Additional or the Joint Registrar at the time of recount seeking reinspection of 
Form 16. As regards the contention that several ballot papers which were liab'e 
to be rejected were wrongly counted in favour of the election petitioner, and 
conversely, that several ballot paoers which should have been counted in favour 
of Dr. R. M. Lohia respondent No. 1, were wrongly rejected, the submission of 
Sri K. L. Misra, learned counsel for the election petitioner was that the total 
number of disputed ballot papers were only 464 (vide the chart forwarded by 
the Additional Registrar) and even if all these disputed ballot papers were held 
to be valid votes cast in favour of Dr. Lohia. even then, it was contended, Sri 
S. N. Misra, election petitioner would lead by 554 votes. 

I have. referred to these matters in some detail although these objections were 
not pressed during arguments to be on the safer side. In view of what has been 
said above. I find no force in these objections, (b, c and d supra), 


Coming to the objections stated at (a supra), it was vehemently urged by 
Sri Rajeshji Verma, learned counsel for respondent No. 2, Sri Nuthu Singh, that 
it was expedient in the interests of justice that a few specimen ballot papers 
of Kamalganj Segment be sent to a Paper and Printing Technologist, along with 
a few specimen ballot papers of other segments, to enable him to compare the 
same and report whether the two sets of ballot papers are similar as regards 
the quality of the paper, printing, ink, and numbering. In this connection Sri 
Verma pointed out that this election petition was filed on 7th April, 1967. Issues 
were framed on 18th December, 1967. Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia respondent 
No. 1, the returned candidate, died on 12th October, 1967. On 25th January, 
1968 this Court held that the recriminatory petition filed by Dr. Lohia abated on 
his death. It was only on 19th March, 1968 that the election petitioner submitted 
his inspection application (numbered as A-93). Sri Verma further pointed out 
that although counting took place on 22nd and 23rd February 1967, i.e imme- 
diately after the conclusion of polling, nevertheless no objection was taken by 
the election petitioner before the Returning Officer regarding the interchange 
of entries in Form 18, in respect of the total number of valid votes secured by 
him (election petitioner) and respondent No. 3 (Sri Sri Krishna) Sri Va nn a 
further pointed out that In his recount application dated 23rd February, 1967, 
submitted by the election petitioner to the Returning Officer at Farrukhabaik 
the onlv ground taken was that a large number of in v a 1 id votes had been wrongly 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4925 

counted in favour of Dr. Lohia, while in the case of the election petitioner a very 
large number of valid votes east in Iris favour had been wrongly rejected, In 
other words, there was no allegation therein that votes cast in favour of the 
election petitioner had been wrongfully entered in Form 16 as having been 
cast in favour of respondent No, 3 Sri Sri Krishna, and vice versa. Sri Varma 
again pointed out that although in his written statement dated 23rd October, 
1967 respondent No. ,3 Sri Sri Krishna had opposed the election petition, never- 
theless when notice of the inspection application A-93 was issued to him, he 
fl'ed an affidavit in court on 2nd April, 1B68, In paras 5 and 6 of that affidavit 
Sri Sri Krishna stated that after the election was over he had occasion to visit 
places where he was shown in Form 20 to have secured a very large number 
of valid votes, and came to the conclusion that he could not have actually 
secured such a large nubmer of votes. In his estimation the number of votes 
secured by him at various polling stations was confined to one or two-digit 
numbers, and therefore he (Sri Sri Krishna! was not in a position to contradict 
the assertions made 'by the election petitioner in this regard. Shri Varma 
further submitted that it was s; range that al l the interchanges, relied 
upon by the election petitioner took place between him and Sri Sri Krishna 
and no other candidate. In Sri Varma’s submission it was extraordinary that 
both in Schedule X to the election petition, as well as in the inspection appli- 
cation A-93 the election petitioner, without inspecting the relevant ballot papers, 
could have given such accurate details regarding! (he alleged interchange of 
bal ot papers between him and Sri Sri Krishna. According to Sri Varma this 
could not have been the result of any guess work. If it was based on infor- 
mation supplied by the election petitioner's election or counting agents, then 
it was so argued one would have expected that in the election petition itself, 
there would have been an allegation to the effect that the entries had been 
interchanged in Form 16. There is, however, no such allegation in the election 
petition. I was, accordingly, requested to infer that some tampering has taken 
place, and in order to be on the safer side to send a few specimen ballot papers 
of Kamalgani Segment, along with similar ballpt. papers of the other segments, 
to a paper and printing Technologist for comparison and report with regard to 
the quality of the paper, printing, ink, numbering, etc. I, was further 
requested to permit the respondent No. 2 to add a fresh para in his 
written statement, as indicated earlier in this judgment. Yet another 
argument, advanced by Sri Varma was that since there was no specific allega- 
tion in the election petition that the entries in Forms 16 of the relevant polling 
stations of Kamalgani Segment have been interchanged as between the election 
petitioner and respondent No. 3 Sri Sri. Krishna, and since no specific issue on 
this point has been framed, no dec'aration as desired could be granted in favour 
of the election petitioner. Reliance was placed in this connection on Nagubai 

Ammal and others v. H. Shama Rao and others (A.I.R, 1956 S.C. 593), wherein 

their Lordships observed: — 

“The true scone of this rule is that evidence, let in on issues on which 

the parties actually went to trial should not be made the foundation 

for decision of another and different issue, which was not present 
to the minds of the parties and on which they had no opportunity 
of adducing evidence.” 

I was requested, in the alternative, to dismiss the election petition so that the 
constituency could be called upon to elect a fresh representative on a rce’ection. 

Sri K. L. Misru, learned counsel for the election petitioner, in his reply sub- 
mitted that, although in the election petition there was no -specific allegation 
tha‘ in the relevant Forms 16 the total number of votes secured by the election 
petitioner and Sri Sri Krishna have been interchanged, nevertheless in Schedu’e 
I thereto, a clear allegation was made that a specified numb n r of votes" cast in 
favour of the election petitioner have been counted for Sri Krishna. It was 
submitted that counting is a continuous process and includes the State when the 
figures are entered in Forms 16 and 20. As regards the plea that there was no 
issue regarding the -dleped interchanged, Sri Misra's argument was that issue 
No. 2(c) as framed by this Court and which runs as under, was wjdc enough 
to cover the plea that in Forms 16 the total number of votes, secu'-ed by the 
election petitioner, were wrongly noted against the name of Sri Sri Krishna end 
vice versa: — 

■“2(C) Whether the result of the e’ection. in so far as it concerns the 
returned candidate has been materially affected by the improper 
reception of 1,965 and 5,039 votes which were validly cast in favour 



4926 Tim GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Pam II— 


of the petitioner, but were wrongly counted in favour of respondent 
No. 1 and other respondents, respectively?’’ 


Sri Misra further pointed out that in Nagubai Ammal and others v. B. Shamu 
Rao and others (supra) their Lordships went on the observe: — ■ 


“But that rule has no application to a case where parties go to trial with 
knowledge that a particular question is in issue, though no specific 
issue has been framed thereon, and adduce evidence relating there- 
to.” 


It was submitted that the contesting respondent knew perfectly well that the 
question of interchange of number of votes in Forms 16 was in issue and evi- 
dence relating thereto was adduced by election petitioner, and consequently 
there has been no prejudice. 

Sri Misra further pointed out that in this Court’s order of 31st January, I960, 
findings were given on Issue No. 2(c) to the effect that in respect of polling 
stations Amethi Kohna, Baraun, Papihapur, Budhnamau, Sheikhpur-rustampur f 
Bahora and Malikpur the e’ection petitioner Sri Misra actually secured 1,509 
votes in all. While Sri Sri Krishna, respondent No. 3, secured 118 votes in all 
but in the relevant Form 16 the figures were interchanged, with the result that 
Sri Misra was shown to have secured 1,391 votes less than what he actually 
secured. Further in Form 20 of Bidhuna Segment there was a totally mistake, 
due to which Sri Misra was shown to have secured 200 votes less than what he 
had actually secured in that Segment, making a grand total of 1,591 votes 
counted short. Sri K. L. Misra submitted that these are findings of tile Courts 
and it is not open now to respondent No. 2 Sri Nathu Singh, to seek to get 
round these findings by raising a: new plea the effect that the ballot papers of 
Kamalganj Segment had been tempered with. Sri Misra further pointed out 
that neither in his written statement, for subsequently, did the contesting res- 
pondent ever raise this kind of objection. It was .accordingly contended that 
it was too late in the day now to challenge the ballot papers of Kamalganj 
Segment on the ground that they were spurious. Sri Misra Vigorously contend- 
ed, therefore, that no case has been made out now to send specimen ballot 
papers of Kamalganj Segment, along with specimen ballot papers of other 
segments, to paper and Printing Technologist for comparison and report. In 
the same way it was contended that, at this fag end of the case, it was not open 
to respondent No. 2 to seek to amend his written statement by insertion of a 
new paragraph containing a new plea, i.e., that the ballot papers of Kamalganj 
Segment were spurious, their paper, ink, and printing being different from those 
ballot papers. I was, accordingly, requested to reiect both the app’ications 
A -269 and A272 made in this behalf by respondent No. 2. 

I have considered the submissions made on either side with care. As indi- 
cated above, on 31st January, 1969 this Court arrived at some findings on Issue 
No. 2(c), and then this Court ordered a general rescrutiny and recount in the 
interests 'of iu=rice. so that the correct position could be ascertained — as there 
was no guarantee that similar mistakes were not committed in forms 16 of other 
segments. In pursuance of that order a general rcscrutlnv and recount, has been 
done by senior officers of this Court. The result of the recount is given in the 
following chart submitted by the Additional Registrar: — 


s. No. Sri S. 

N. Misra 

Dr. R. M. 
Lohia 

Sri Nathu 
Singh 

Sri Sri 
Krishna 

SriR. B. E. 
K ati yar. 

Dispute 1 

J- 

Kamalganj 

24448 

i478i 

15555 

2232 

IIQO 

175 

2. 

Umardha 

18584 

19469 

16334 

i47? 

1861 

60 

3. 

Chhibramau 

24817 

21127 

22327 

1247 

1573 

67 

4. 

Bidhuna 

13776 

23636 

I53I2 

2595 

2063 

l?4 

5 . 

Kannauj 

14683 

14277 

8503 

924 

7t6 

28 


Grand Total 

: 9430R 

93290 

78231 

9490 

7403 

461 


According to the above chart (excluding disputed votes). 


Sri S. N. Misra leads by iot! (94308 — 93290 — 1018 votes),. 

Sd / V, N. Vprma 

27-3-69” 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1391 4927 


The point for determination is whether there is any valid reason to reject the 
result of the re-count as arrived at by the Additional Registrar of this Court. 
It may be that In the election petition, and in the schedules, thereto, the election 
petitioner did not specifically allege that in the relevant Forms 16 the total 
number of valid votes secured by him and respondent No. 3 Sri Sri Krishna had 
been interchanged. There was, however, an allegation in Schedule I to the election 
petition that specific numbers of votes cast in favour of the election petitioner 
had been counted In favour of Sri Sri Krishna. At this fag end of the case 
strong reasons must be shown before the result of the re-count as arrived at 
by the Additional Registrar, can be discarded, and the matter re-opened on the 
lines suggested by respondent No. 2, i.e. by sending specimen ballot papers of 
Kamalganj and other segments to the Paper and Printing Technologist for com- 
parison, In view of all the circumstances mentioned above. I am not satisfied 
that a case has been made out for adopting such a course. 

Applications A-269 and A-372 must accordingly fall. 

While discussing Issue No. 14 (“To what reliefs, if any, is the petitioner 
entitled?”) in my order of 31st January, 1969, I had said that the correct over-all 
position could be ascertained, only when ail the ballot papers cast in the disputed 
election were again scrutinised and counted. I had further observed that in the 
Interests of justice a general re-count was accordingly essential. A finding on 
Issue No. 14 could not, therefore, be given at that stage and was postponed pend- 
ing re-count. Now that the re-scrutiny and the re-count have been done by the 
officers of this Court and objections thereto (as discussed above) have been dis- 
posed of, the Court has to give a finding on Issue No, 14. As Indicated above, 
even if all the disputed votes, i.e. numbering 464, as stated in the chart forwarded 
by the Registrar, are held to be valid votes, cast in favour of Dr. R. M. Lohia, 
even then the election petitioner Sri S. N. Misra would lead by 554 votes over 
his nearest rival Dr. Lohia, The relevant figures will be 94,308 votes cast in 
favour of Sri Misra and 93,754 votes cast in favour of Dr. Lohia. The total 
number of votes secured by the other candidates need not be referred to here 
as none of them anywdrere near the election petitioner or Dr. Lohia. 

Under Section 101 of the Representation of the People Act: — 

“If any person who has lodged a petition has, in addition to calling in ques- 
tion the election of the returned candidate, claimed declaration that 
he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected and the 
High Court Is of opinion: 

(a) that in fact the petitioner or such other candidate received a 

majority of the valid votes; or 

(b) that but for the votes obtained by the returned candidate by corrupt 

practices the petitioner or such other candidate would have obtained 
a majority of the valid votes. 

the High Court shall, after declaring the election of the returned candidate to be 
void declare the petitioner or such other candidate, as the case may be, to have 

been duly elected.” 

In his election petition Sri S. N. Misra had no doubt alleged commission of 
corrupt practices by Dr, Lohia- Issues In this regard had been framed. Since, 
however, no evidence was led on these issues no findings have been given. In 
his recriminatory petition Dr. Lohia had alleged commission of corrupt practices 
by the election petitioner. Dr. Lohia, respondent No. 1, died on 12th October, 
1967. On 25th January, 1968 this Court held that the recriminatory petition filed 
by Dr. Lohia abated on his death. It was for this reason that no issues were 
framed on the basis of the recriminatory petition. The position, therefore, is 
although both the election petitioner Sri S. N. Misra and respondent No. 1 Dr. 
Lohia had accused each other of- having committed corrupt practices, these allega- 
tions and counter-allegations were not gone into at the trial for reasons stated 
above. Therefore, the provisions of section 101(b) of the Act do not come into 
play in the present case. We are, therefre, left only with the provisions of section 
101 (a). In other words, the court has only to see if the election petitioner has 

received a majority of valid votes cast at the election, as alleged by him in the 

election petition. As indicated above, the re-scrutiny and the re-count of all the 
ballot papers done by the Additional Registrar of this Court has revealed that 
even if all the disputed ballot papers are held to be valid votes cast in favour of 
Dr. Lohia even then the election petitioner, Sri S. N. Misra received 94,3(18 valid 
votes and Dr. Lohia 93,754 votes. In other words Sri S. N. Misra secured 554 

votes more than Dr. Lohia, In terms of section 101 (a) of the Representation 



4928 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


of the People Act (supra) a declaration has to be passed in favour of the election 
petitioner, In his election petition the prayer made by Sri S. N. Misra is, firstly, 
that the election of respondent No. 1 Dr. R. M. Lohia be declared void, and 
secondly, further declaration be given that he (election petitioner) had been 
vaiidly elected by a majority of valid votes to the Lok Sabha from the Ka'nnauj 
07 Parliamentary Constituency. In view of the facts and circumstances set out 
above, such a declaration has to be granted. 


In his election petition, Sri S. N. Misra had further prayed for costs against 
respondent No. 1. Under section 119 of the Representation of the People Act costs 
shall be in the discretion of the High Court. Under the proviso to Section 119, — 

“Where a petition is dismissed under clause (a) of section 98, the returned 
candidate shall be entitled to the costs Incurred by him in contesting 
the petition .and accordingly the High Court shall make an order for 
costs in favour of the returned candidate.” 

The proviso does not apply here because the petition 1 b not being dismissed- For 
reasons stated below, I am of the opinion that the petitioner is not entitled to an 
order for costs against any of the respondents: — • 


(a) As already indicated, Dr. Lohia, the returned candidate, died on 12th 
October, 1907. After his death, there has been only a nominal contest in this 
case. Sri Nathu Singh, respondent No. 2, no doubt elected to continue to oppose 
the jpetitlon, as provided by section 110 of the Act, but the contest, as mentioned 
above, has not been either steady or vigorous. For instance, while some of the 
petitioner’s witnesses were being examined, e.g. P.W. 8 Sri JR. P. Singh, Assistant 
Returning Officer, none appeared on behalf of Sri Nathu Singh respondent No. 2 
to cross-examine the witnesses with the result that, for the ends of justice the 
Court had to put certain questions to the witnesses and get matters clarified. 

(b) The case Is now being decided on the basis of a general re-scrutlny and 
re-count. It is noteworthy that this course was vigorously opposed by the election 
petitioner, who went to the extent of filling a Review Petition (No. A-256), after 
this Court passed the order on 31st January, 1969 directing a general re-scrutiny 
and re-count. That petition was rejected by me on 14th February, 1969. 

(c) I may further point out that although this election petition was filed as 
early as 7th April, 1067 and Issues had been framed on 18th pecember, 1907, it 
was only on 19th March, 1908, that the election petitioner submitted his inspection 
application A-93. It was as a result of the order of inspection, made by this 
Court, on that application, that the election petitioner was able to adduce evidence 
regarding the interchange of the total number of votes cast In his favour and in 
favour of respondent No. 3 Sri Sri Krishna is Forms 16 of some polling stations 
in Kamalganj Segment. 

In all these circumstances, I think it will be only fair and equitable that the 
election petitioner should bear his own costs. As already directed in my order 
of 31st January, 1969, the election petitioner will also bear the entire cost of the 
re-scrutlny and re-count under the supervision of the Additional Registrar of this 
Court. 

Issue No. 14 is decided accordingly. 

ORDER 

Accordingly, the election petition is allowed. It Is declared that the election 
of Dr. R. M. Lohia, respondent No. 1. to the Lok Sabha from Kannauj 67 Parlia- 
mentary Constituency, is void. It Is further declared that the election petitioner 
Sri S. N, Misra was duly elected, by a majority of valid votes to the said Sabha 
from the above constituency. 

The election petitioner, as well as the contesting respondent, will bear their 
respective costs of this petition. The election petitioner, also hear the entire cost 
of the general re-scrutiny and re-count, as directed by this Court’s order of 31st 
January, 1959. 


Dated 14t?i May, 1969. 


(Sd.) T. R. 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4929 


Annexure 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD 
CIVIL SIDE 

Original Jurisdiction 
Dated Allahabad the 31 st January, 1969 


Present: 

The Hon’ble T. Ramabhadran — Judge. 

Election Petition No. 14 of 1967 
Sri S. N. Misra— Petitioner. 

Vs. 

Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia and others— Respondents. 


By the Court 

This election petition arises out of the election to the Lok Sabha from 
Kannauj— 1967 Parliamentary Constituency, held in 1967. There were five candi- 
dates in the field, including the petitioner Sri S. N. Misra. Polling in the various, 
segments of the constituency took place during the period 15th to the 21st Feb- 
ruary, 1967. Counting was done on 22nd and 23rd February, 1967. The result 
was declared on 24th February 1967, when Dr. R. M, Lohia, arrayed as respondent 
No. 1 in this e ection petition, was declared elected. The number of votes, secured 


by the various candiadtes was as under: — 

1. Sri S. N. Misra (Petitioner) . . 93,106 

2. Dr. R. M. Lohia (respdt. No. 1) . . 93,578 

3. Sri Nathu Singh (respdt. No. 2) . . 78,296 

4. Sri Sri Krishna (respdt. No. 3) . . 11,080 

5. Dr. R. B. L. Katiyar (respdt. No. 4) . . 7,363 


As many as 11,158 ballot papers were rejected as invalid. In addiition, there were 
114 tendered votes. 


In this election petition, which was presented on 7th April 1967, the allega- 
tions made by the election petitioner were as follows:— B 

(A) The members of the counting staff were all Government srevants, eg 
servants of the Uttar Pradesh Government, who had been carrying on agitation 
to secure certain demands, and being inspired by some propaganda carried on 
by respondent No. 1 they were hostile to the petitioner. A large number of votes 
which should have been counted as valid ones on favour of the petitioner were 
not so counted. On the other hand, a large number of invalid votes were counted 
as valid m favour of respondent No. 1. Again, several valid votes, cast in favour 
of the petitioner, were wrongly mixed up and counted in favour of one or other 
of the respondents. Further, several valid votes cast in favour of the petitioner 
were improperly rejected as invalid. Bundles of ballot papers, cast in favour of 
the petitioner, though purporting to be made up of 50 ballot papers each actually 
contained more than 50 such bal'ot papers, whereas, on the other hand similar 
bundles of respondent No. 1, contained, in many cases, less than 50 ballot papers 
each. 1 


(B) There was considerable overcrowding at the places were counting was 
done. In particular, during the counting of votes pertaining to Kamalgani 
Assembly Segment at Fatehgarh, and of the Bidhuna Assembly Segment at 
Etawah, a large hostile crowd of unauthorised persons entered the counting hall 
and made it impossible for any fair counting to be done. 

(C) The Rght. provided in the various counting halls, was insufficient and 
severely handicapped the process of counting, The counting agents of the 
petitioner found it very difficult to watch the progress of counting, e.g., acceptance 
and rejection of ballot papers. Due to the presence of hostile crowds, the peti- 
tioner’s counting agents were unable in many cases, to detect illegalities and 
irregularities that were being committed by the counting staff. It was risky for 
fhem to raise any objection, 

(D) The Assistant Returning Officer, who was in charge of the counting in 
each of the Assembly Segments was unable to exercise adequate supervision over 



493° THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KART1KA 24, 1891 [Part li- 


the acceptance of ballot papers, with the result that the process of acceptance 
was left entirely to the counting clerks. It was only where the counting clerks, 
or the Counting Supervisor, chose to take the ballot papers to the Assistant 
Returning Officer that the latter got an opportunity of scrutinising them, 

(E) At polling station Jarari in Kamalganj Assembly Segment No. 311, polling 
commenced an hour later than the scheduled time, with the result that a large 
number of voters who had. arrived at the polling station at about 4 p.m. and 
wanted to cast their votes in favour of the petitioner, were not permitted to do 
so and were sent back without casting their votes. Similarly at polling station 
No. 69 Bhadousa in the Kamalganj Assembly Segment, and at Polling Stations 
Nos. 11, 12, 36 and 37 in No. 311 Bidhuna Assembly Segment, the presiding offi- 
cers who were hostile to the petitioner deliberately sent back many voters who- 
wanted to vote in favour of the petitioner. 

(F) At a number of polling stations, the members of the polling staff, who 
were hostile to the Congress Party, deliberately double-marked ballot papers, 
validly cast in the favour of the petitioner, so as to render them invalid. The 
above irregularities and illegalities affected the result of the election; otherwise 
the petitioner would have been successful. 

(G) Rspondent No. 1, and other persons with his connivance and consent, hired 
tractors fitted with trailers, trucks, jeeps, bffilock-carts and tongas, for the free 
conveyance of voters to and from the polling stations, and thereby committed the 
corrupt practice mentioned in section 123(5) of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1051 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”). 

(H) Despite the efforts made by the petitioner to get his objections to the 
process of counting recorded and a receipt, be given to him of the objections 
tendered no such receipts were issued to him, Consequently, the petitioner was 
obliged to send a telegram to the Returning Officer complaining about the mis- 
conduct of the officers concerned and the erroneous rejection of ballot papers. 
An application for recount was also made to the Returning Officer Sri R. M. 
Bhatnagar, who erroneously rejected the same. 


On the above premises the election petitioner Sri S. N. Misra prayed for a 
declaration that the election of respondent No. 1 Dr. R. M. Lohla to the Lok Sabha, 
from Kannauj — 07 Par'iamentary Constituency be declared void, and further he 
(the election petitioner) be declared to have been validly elected, by a majority 
of valid votes to the Lok Sabha from the above constituency. 

Notice of the election petition was issued to the respondents. 


Written statements were fi’ed by all the respondents. In his written state- 
ment respondent No. 1 Dr. R. M. Lohla denied that any irregularities had been 
committed, either during the polling or the counting of votes. As regards the 
strike of certain employees of the U.P. Government, it was stated that the strike 
had ended much before the date of poll. It was further denied, that the members 
of the counting staff were hostile to the petitioner, or that they had been instigated 
bv respondent No 1. On the other hand, it was stated that the State employees, 
who had gone on strike were favourably disposed towards the petitioner, as he 
was himself one of their office-bearers. The allegations made m the election 
Detitlon regarding over-crowding in the counting halls, presence of large anc 
hostile crowds, wrongful rejection or acceptance of ballot papers, etc. were denied. 
On the other hand, it was asserted that the polling and counting took place 
according to rffies and regulations. There was adequate arrangement for main- 
taining law and order; the atmosphere was peaceful; light was sufficient no voter 
Was sent back without casting his vote polling at Jarari polling station did no 
start late- counting agents had adequate opportunity to watch the progress of 
counting 'and to scrutinise the rejected ballot papers; adequate supervision waa 
exercised by the Assistant Returning Officers; and the application for recount 
made by the election patitioner was rightly rejected by the Returning Officer as 
It had no substance. Legal pleas regarding the presentation of the election peti- 
tion and the lack of material particulars of alleged corrupt practices were also 
taken. 


In his written statement, respondent No. 2 Sri Nathu Singh similarly denied 
the allegations made in rhe election petition and asserted that the polling and 
counting was done properly, according to rules and regulations, It was further 
staled therein, that many ballot papers counted in favour of the petitioner, should 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 493 / 

have been rejected, as they were invalid, and if they were excluded, it will be 
found that the petitioner had secured even a lesser number of votes than declared 
by the Returning Officer- 

In his written statement, respondent No. 3 Sri Sri Krishna, after denying the 
allegations made in the election petition, alleged that the same had been merely 
filed with a view to enlist public support, rather than to vindicate any public 
light, Accordingly, it was alleged that the election petition was mala fide and 
not maintainable, and the petitioner was not entitled to any relief claimed by 
him. 

Dr. R. B, L, Katiyar, respondent No. 4, in his written statement made many 
allegations which seem to have little relevancy to the present proceeding. 

A recriminatory petition under section 97 of the Act was also filed by Dr. Lohia, 
wherein it was alleged that the election of the election petitioner Sri S. N. Misra, 
would have been void had he been declared the returned candidate, on account 
of various corrupt practices allegedly committed by him, e.g., appeal to the voters 
to vote on the ground of caste and religion; illegal gratification paid to voters to 
vote for the election petitioner; hiring and procuring of vehicles for the free con- 
veyance of voters to and from the polling stations. Dr. Lohia died on the 12th 
October, 1967 ( vide the statement mode at the bar on 17th October 1967), and 
it was held by me on 25th January 1968 that consequent to his death, his recri- 
minatory petitioner abated. 

The following issues were framed on the election petition: — 

(1) Whether the election was accompanied by as many copies there- 
of, as there are respondents mentioned in the petition, every such copy 
being attested by the petitioner, under his own signature, to be a true 
copy of the petition? (On petitioner) If not, what is the result? 

(2) Whether the result of the election, in so far as it concerns the returned 
candidate, has been materially affected by the following (On petitioner) 

(a) The improper rejection of 3,656 votes validly cast in favour of the 
petitioner, as detailed in Schedule II to the petition. 

(b) The improper reception of 1260 votes in favour of the respondent 
No. 1, although being invalid, they should have been rejected, as 
detailed in Schedule III to the petition. 

(c) The Improper reception of 1,665 and 5,039 votes, which were validly 
cast in favour of the petitioner, but were wrongly counted in favour 
of respondent No. 1 and other respondents, respectively. 

(d) Some bundles, containing ballot papers validly cast in favour of the 
petitioner, contained more than 50 ballot papers each, but were 
treated as containing only 50 ballot papers each, while some bundles 
containing less than 50 bal’ot papers each, cast in favour of respon- 
dent No. 1, were treated as bundles containing 50 such ballot papers 
each, thereby depriving the petitioner of about 1,000 votes. 

If so, what is the result? 


(3) Whether the counting and scrutiny of votes at Fatebgarh and Etawah 
was hampered by over-crowding, insufficient light and the presence of 
nm tr i hos i Ue crowd, making it impossible for the Assistant Returning 
Officer to exeicise sufficient control or supervision over the checking 
of baHot papers, leaving the task entirely to the counting clerks? (On 
petitioner). If so, what is the resu't? ' ' 


(4) Whether the counting clerks, being servants of the U.P. Government 
were hositle to the petitioner (being the Congress candidate) on ac- 
count of their persistent agitation against the Government in connec- 
tion with certain demands, and had consequently gone on strike, their 
hostility being further aggravated by the propaganda carried on by 
respondent No 1? If s0 , to what extent did it affect the process of 
counting of ballot papers (On petitioner) If so, what is the result? 

(5) Whether at the Polling Station Jarari in Kamalganj Assembly Segment 

No 311. the polling commenced an hour later than the scheduled" time 
with result that about 300 voters, who had come to the poding station 
to cast their votes were denied an opportunity to do so, and were sent 
hack without casting their votes? (On petitioner) If =, 0 what is 
the result? ’ 



493 2 THE Cj^ZblTH OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Past 11— 


(8) Whether in Polling station Bhadausa No. 69, in the Kamalganj 
Assembly Segment, and the Polling stations Nos. 11, and 12 Kaithwa, 
in Bidhuna Assembly Segment No. 311, and in Poling Stations 36 and 
37 Bikhara Primary School, also in Bidhuna Assembly Segment No. 311, 
the Presiding Officers were hostile to the petitioner and deliberate y 
sent back about 100 voters in the case of Bhadausa, about 215 voters in 
the case of Kaithwa, and about 100 voters in the case of Bikhara 
Primary School, without letting them cast their votes? (On petitioner) 
If so, what is the result? 

(7) Whether at Polling Stations Bidhuna, Kamalganj, Chhibramau, Kannauj 
and Umardha the polling stall, consisting of Government employees 
and teachers, being hostile to the petitioner, deliberatel double-marked 
bal ot papers (aggregating to 1,036 as detailed in Schedule IV to the 
petition), validly cast in favour of the petitioner, with a view to render 
them invalid, with the result that they were rejected? (On petitioner) 
If so, what is the result? 

(8) Whether respondent No. 1, other persons with his consent, hired tractors 
(fitted with trailers) trucks, jeeps, tongas and bullock-carts for the 
free covneyance of electors to and from the polling stations, on the 
dates of polling, as detailed in Schedule V to the election petition? 
(On petitioner) If so, what is the result? 

<9) Whether the allegations contained in paras 10(a) to (d), 14 to 17 and 
23 and 24 of the election petition are bad for vagueness and lack of 
material particulars and, as such, are liable to be struck off? (On 
respondent No. 2). 

(10) Whether the allegations of corrupt practice made in Paras 23 and 24 
of the election petition cannot be enquired into in view of the death of 
respondent x No. 1? (On respondent No. 2). 

(11) Whether efforts were made on behalf of the petitioner to bring the 
irregularities committed at the time of counting to the attention of the 
Returning Officer, but the same were ignored? (On petitioner) If so, 
what is the result 

(12) Whether a sum of Rs. 1,000 was paid by respondent No. Dr, R. M. Lohia, 
to respondent No. 4- Dr. R. B. L. Katiyar with the object ol including 
him to withdraw from the election? If so, what is the result? (On 
petitioner). 

(13) Whether the election of respondent No. 1 is void and liable to be set 
aside? 

(14) To what reliefs, if any, is the petitioner entitled? 

The first part of issue No. 1 which was treated as a preliminary issue, was 
decided by me in favour of the election petitioner on 25th January *1968. Accord- 
ing^ the second part of this issue — it was held — did not arise. 

On issue No. 9, which was treated as legal in nature, I held on 25th January 
1968 that the election petitioner should supply certain further particulars, and 
accordingly he was granted three weeks’ time to supply the same. Issue No. 10 was 
decided against respondent No. 2 on the same date (25-1-1968). 

After that the election petition was due to come, up for recording evidence on 
the remaining issues after the election petitioner supplied certain further parti- 
culars, as directed by the Court. 

In the meantime, on 19th March 1968, an application purporting to be under 
sections 100(1) (d) (iii), 101 and 102 of the Representation of the People Act, Rule 
03 of the Conduct of E'ection Rules, 1961, Order 13, Rule 10, C.P.C, and section 
51 C.P.C. was put in by the election petitioner, wherein he sought the leave of 
the Court to inspect the packets, containing ballot papers cast in favour of the 
petitioner but rejected, ballot papers accepted in favour of respondent No. 1 and 
other respondenst, etc. Notice of that application was issued to the other side. 
It may be mentioned, at this stage, that after the death of respondent No. 1 Dr. 
R. M. Lohia, it was respondent No. 2 Sri Nathu Singh, who has been contesting 
the election petition. On 2nd May 1968 Sri K. L, Misra, learned counsel for the 
election petitioner, made a statement to the effect that for the present he confined 
bis prayer for Inspection to the ballot papers of eight polling stations, namely, 
Amethi, Kohna, Baraun, Papihapur, Budnamau, Shelkhpur-Rustampur, Ujarpur- 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4933. 


Sultanpatti, Bahora and Mallkpur. Subsequently, on 23rd August, 1968, orders 
were passed on the inspection application to the eltect, that the election petitioner 
was permitted to inspect ballot papers east in his favour, and in favour of res- 
pendent No, 3 Sri Sri Krishna, at the eight polling stations referred to by Sri K. L. 
Misra in his statement made on this Court on 2nd May 1986, namely, Amethi 
Kohna, Baraun, Papihapur, Budhanamau, Sheikhpur-Hustampur, Ujarpur-Sultan- 
putti, Bahora and Malikpur, Ballot papers to be Inspected were to include those 
which, though seemingly cast in favour of these two candidates, were rejected. 
Inspection was, accordingly, done in the presence of an officer of the Court. 

The election petitioner on 9th September, 1963 moved an application (A-124) 
wherein it was stated that the above inspection had revealed that votes cast in 
favour of the petitioner had been wrongly shown as having been cast in favour 
ot respondent No. 3 Sri Sri Krishna, and similarly votes cast in favour of Sri 
Sri Krishna had been wrongly shown as having been cast in favour of the 
petitioner, in Forms 16 and 20 e.g., in Polling Station No- 1 Amethi Kohna the 
petitioner had actually received 162 votes, while respondent No. 3 Sri Sri Krishna 
had received only 11 votes, but in Forms 16 and 20 the entries had been reversed, 
i-e-, 11 votes were shown as having been secured by the election petitioner and. 
162 votes by Sri Sri Krishna. Similar mistakes were committed in Forms 16 
and 20 pertaining to Polling Stations No. 11 Baraun, No, 21 Papihapur, No. 28 
Budhnamau, No. 31 Shelkhpur-Rustampur, No. 70 Bahora and No. 94 Mallkpur- 
The slips attached to the bundles of ballot papers, however, stated the correct 
position. On these permises, it was claimed by the election petitioner in Para 0 
of the above application (A-124) that he was entitled to be credited with 1,519 
valid votes instead of only 117, In respect of the above polling stations, and on 
the necessary correction of entries being made, it would be found that the 
petitioner had received a majority of valid votes in the election to the Lok Sabha 
from the Kannauj Parliamentary Constituency- In Para 10 of the same petition 
it was alleged that in Form 20 of Bidhuna Segment of 87 Kannauj Parliamentary 
Constituency the Counting Officers and the Returning Officer had made a totalling 
mistake. The total number of votes secured by the election petitioner came to 
13,838 and not 13,638 as shown in the above Form 20- This meant that the 
petitioner was to be credited with 200 more votes. This, taken in conjunction 
with the figures mentioned in Para 9 of the above petition — it was so claimed— 
entitled the petitioner to a declaration that he had been duly elected to the Lok 
Sabha by a majority of votes. 

Arguments of the learned counsel for the parties were heard on the above 
application. Without expressing any opinion on the various contentions embodied 
in this application, I directed on 16th September, 1968 that evidence of the parties 
on the Issues framed in the case would first be recorded. The witnesses produced' 
by the election petitioner were examined on 7th November, 1968 and subsequent 
dates, while those for respondent No. 2 were examined on 21st November, 1968 
and the following day 2nd December, 1968 wa- then fixed for arguments. Argu- 
ments were completed by 3th January, 1969, whereupon judgment was reserved. 

I may point out, at this stage that the election petitioner has confined his 
case to issue No. 2(c) and has not led any evidence on the remaining issues, 
while issue No- 14, is merely concerned with the reliefs, if ar.y, to which the 
petitioner would be entitled. 


Finding 

Issue No. 2(c): — 

It would be convenient to reproduce the above issue : — 

“Whether the result of the election, in so far as it concerns the returned 
candidate, has been materially affected by the improper reception of 
1,965 and 5,039 votes which were validly cast In favour of the 
petitioner but were wrongly counted In favour of respondent No- 1 
and other respondents respectively?” 

It w'as vehemently urged by Sri K. L. Misra. learned counsel for the election 
petitioner, that as a result of the inspection of the ballot papers of the above- 
mentioned polling stations, it has been established that 1,391 ballot papers, wffiich’ 
should have been counted in favour of his client (the election petitioner) were 
wrongly counted in favour of Sri Sri Krishna respondent No. 3. In addition, 
in Form 20 of Bidhuna Segment the total number of votes cast in favour of the' 



4934 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER IS, 1969/KART1KA 24, 1891 [Pahj ])_ 


petitioner has been wrongly shown as 13,638 instead of 13,838. I n other words, 
<200 more votes should have been credited in favour of the petitioner. This means 
that the petitioner was entitled to be credited with 1,591 more votes, which, 
it was contended, was more than sufficient to bridge the gulf between him and 
tbe relumed candidate. It was pointed out that Dr. Lohia respondent No* 1, had 
been declared elected by a majority of only 472 votes. 

by hVKessel ^ arguments Sri K - L - Mlsr « Peered to the evidence tendered 

■ S ' c ‘ w - Assistant Registrar of this Court was the officer 

in whose presence inspection of the above ballot papers took’ place He has 
proved Inspection reports Exs. V, VI, VII, VIII, IX and X- A perusal' of these 
^ction reports would indicate that in Polling Station No. 1 Amethi Kohna, 
the election petitioner Sri S. N. Misra had secured 162 votes and Sri Sri Krishna 
only 11 votes. Similarly, in Baraun polling station the election petitioner 
ecured 309 vote s and Sri Sri Krishna 9 votes. Similarly, the corresponding 

°i" n J a fo 1 ? api i r ' Budhn ® man a 2 d Sheikhpur-Restampur polling stations are 
/ 93 J 0t % S '- respectively, for Sri S. N. Misra, and 11, 6 and 14 votes, 

?w P tn ior Sri Krishna. Similarly, the figures for Bahora and Malikpur 

tb f candidates are 201 and 169, respectively, for Sri S. N. Misra, and 7 

and 60 votes, respectively, for Sri Sri Krishna 


P.W. 2 Sri D. K. Chaudhri, an official of this Court, is a formal witness. He 
'has merely tendered on behalf of the Registrar, original Forms 16 and 20 of the 
above-mentioned polling stations and the corresponding Segments of the Parlia- 
mentary Constituency. 

P-W. 3 Sri R. P. Singh, Deputy Collector, Fatehpur had functioned as Assistant 
Returning Officer at the time of the election. Under the orders of this Court, 
the relevant election papers were brought by him and handed over to the Deputy 
Registrar of this Court. After seeing Form 16 (Ex. XXI) of Amethi Kohna 
polling station, he has stated that the number of valid votes secured by Sri 
S. N. Misra and Sri Sri Krishna are recorded therein as 11 and 162, respectively, 
whereas according to the slip Ex, XIX, attached to the bundle of the relevant 
"ballot papers it was the other way round, i.e., the number of valid votes secured 
by Sri Misra was 162 and that by Sri Sri Krishna 11. The witness admitted 
that the mistake in Form 16 was due to the negligence of the Counting Supervisor. 
He added that it was not possible for him to check all the Forms 16 as there 
were so many counting tables. 

Similarly, in Form 16 of polling station Baraun (Ex. XXIV) Sri S. N. Misra 
is shown to have secured only 9 votes while Sri Sri Krishna is shown lo have 
secured 309 votes. The witness admitted that this entry was also a mistake 
and it had been committed due to the negligence of the Counting Supervisor. 
According to the slips Ex. XXII and XXIII attached to the relevant bundle of 
ballot papers Sri S. N. Misra had secured 309 votes, while Sri Sri Krishna had 
secured 9 votes- In other words, the numbers had been inter-changed. 

This witness further stated that in the Form 16 pertaining to Papihapur 
■polling station (Ex. XXVII) Sri S. N. Misra is shown to have secured 158 
votes and Sri Sri Krishna 11 votes. This was the correct position and it tallied 
with the slip attached to the relevant bundle of ballot papers (Ex- XXV). In 
Form 20 of Kamalganj Segment (Ex. XXVIII) which includes this polling station, 
however, Sri S. N- Misra was shown to have polled 11 votes, whereas Sri Sri 
Krishan was shown to have secured 158 votes. The witness admitted that the entry 
In Form 20 was wrong and It was due to a clerical mistake. 


Similarly, In Form 16 (Ex. XXXI) of Budhnamau polling station. Sri S. N- Misra 
was shown to have secured only 6 votes, while Sri Sri Krishna was shown to 
have polled as many as 228 votes- Here again the entries appeared to have been 
Inter-changed, because according to the relevant slips Exs. XXIX and XX x 
attached to the bundles of the respective ballot papers, Sri S. X Misra had 
polled 228 votes and Sri Sri Krishna only 6 votes. The witness admitted that 
the same mistake was repeated in Form 20, because this Form was prepared 
on the basis of the entries in Form 10- 


In the same way, In Form 16 of polling station Shelkhpur-Rustampur (Ex. 
XXXIV) Sri S. N. Misra was shown to have polled only 14 votes, while Sri Sri 
Krishna was shown to have polled 293 votes. The witness admitted that the 
.above-mentioned figures were wrong and had been inter-changed, and the same 



Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4935 


mistake had been repeated in Form 20. because it was filled in on the basis 

ot the entries in Form 16- The slips, attached to the relevant bundles ot 

ballot papers (Exs. XXXII and XXXIII) showed that Sri S. N. Misra had secured 
293 votes and Sri Sri Krishna only 14 votes. 

A similar mistake had been committed in ,'Form 16 (Ex- XL) pertaining 

to Bahora polling station. Therein Sri S. N. Misra and Sri Sri Krishna were shown 
to have secured 7 and 201 votes, respectively. This admittedly was a mistake, 
because in the slips (Exs. XXXVIII and XXXIX) attached to the relevant bundles 
ot ballot papers, Sri S. N. Misra and Sri Sri Krishna were shown to have 

secured 201 and 7 votes, respectively- 

A similar mistake had been committed in Form 16 (Ex. XLIII) pertaining 
to Malikpur polling station, wherein Sri S. N- Misra was shown to have secured 
only 60 valid votes, whereas Sri Sri Krishna was shown to have secured 169 
valid votes. The slips attached to the relevant bundles of ballot papers (Exs. XLI 
and XLII), however, showed that the real position was the other way round, 
namely, Sri S, N. Misra secured 169 votes and Sri Sri Krishna 60 votes. 

The witness was asked by a Court question to state what steps he took to 
ensure that all the Forms 16 were correctly filled in, when mistakes in some 
Forms 16 came to his notice. His answer was that the members of the counting 
staff were again Instructed to be more vigilant and careful in counting the ballot 
papers and making the relevant entries In Part II of Forms 16. He added that 
errors of transposition (inter-change) concerned only two candidates, namely, 
S- N. Misra and Sri Sri Krishna. The witness was specifically asked whether 
in view of the large number of mistakes, which came to his notice he deemed 
it necessary to tally the figures given in Part II of the remaining Forms 16 with 

the figures appearing in the slips attached to all the bundles of accepted ballot 

pape”". His answer was that he did not deem it necessary to tally all the figures, 

because he thought that other mistakes, if any, must have been noticed by the 

counting agents of the candidates, who would have brought the same either to 
the notice of the Counting Supervisor, or to his (witness’s) notice. He further 
stated that no mistakes in Form 16 were brought to his notice to the best of 
his memory, by the counting agents of the candidates, although one objection 
was brought to his notice regarding rejected ballot papers. 

P.W. 4 Surendra Bahadur Singh, was the Assistant Returning Officer of 
Kannauj-67 Parliamentary Constituency. He admitted that in Form 20 (Ex. 
XXVIII) of Blduna Segment a mistake in totalling has occurred In the third 
page, i.e-, the grand total of votes secured by Sri S- N. Misra is 13j338 and not 
13,038 as shown in that Form. 

P.W. 5 Sri R. M- Bhatnagar, had functioned as Returning Officer of Kannauj 
07 Parliamentary Constituency at the relevant time- He stated that Form 21, 
in which the result of the election was declared, is prepared on the basis of the 
details given in Form 20, Form 20, in its turn, is prepared on the basis of Form 
16 the last mentioned being prepared by the Counting Supervisors after actual 
counting of ballot papers. Shown Exs. XIX. XX and XXI the witness stated 
that although according to Form 16 (Ex. XXI) Sri S- N- Misra had secured only 
11 votes and Sri Sri Krishna as many as 162 votes, nevertheless according to 
the counting slips Exs. XIX and XX Sri Misra had secured 102 and Sri Sri 
Krishna only 11 votes. 

, The witness scrutinised the relevant ballot papers in the Court Room and then 
stated that In Amethl Kohna Polling Station No. 1 Sri S. N. Misra secured 160 
votes and Sri Sri Krishna 11 votes, Two votes counted in favour of Sri Misra 
were liable to be. rejected on account of their bearing double seal marks. 

Similarly, the scrutiny of the ballot papers of Polling Station Baraun revealed 
that Sri S. N. Misra secured 307 votes, while Sri Sri Krishna secured only 10 
votes. The entries made in Part II of Form 16 (Exs. XXI and XXIV) were 
incorrect. Two votes which had been counted in favour of Sri S. N. Misra were 
to be left out In the opinion of this witness, according to whom one of them 
should have been counted In favour of Sri Sri Krishna and the other rejected. 

Similarly, a scrutiny of the ballot papers of Papihapur polling station revealed 
that 2 ballot papers which had been counted in favour of Sri Nathu Singh 
respondent should have been counted In favour of Sri S. N. Misra, petitioner. 
The result was, Sri Misra secured 167 valid votes in this polling station and 
Sri Sri Krishna only 11 votes. The entries In Part II of Form 16 of this polling 
station (Ex. XXVII) were, therefore, Incorrect. After seeing Form 20 (Ex. 



4936 THE G AZE TTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


XXVIII) the witness stated that the entries appearing against the names of 
Sri S- N. Misra and Sri Sri Krishna had been inter-changed. In other words,, 
the number of valid votes polled by Sri S- N. Misra should have been 156 and 
those polled by Sri Sri Krishna only 11, and not the other way round as shown 
in that Form. 

scrutiny of the ballot papers of Budhnamau polling station .revealed that 
Sri S. N- Misra had secured 228 valid votes and Sri Sri Krishna only 8 votes, 
as indicated in the counting slip (Ex. XXIX). In the relevant Form 16 (Ex- 
XXXI) however, the entries had been inter-changed, he., Sri Sri Krishna is shown 
to have secured 228 votes and Sri Misra only 6 votes. 

After scrutinising the ballot papers of Sheikhpur-Rustampur polling station, 
witness stated that Sri S, N- Misra had secured 290 valid votes; out o:“ 3 votes 
counted in favour of Sri Misra 2 should have been counted in favour of Sri Nathu 
Singh and one in favour of Dr. Lohia. There was no mistake in the counting 
slip in recording the valid votes secured by Sr] Sri Krishna. In the relavant 
Form 16 (Ex. XXXIV) however, the number of votes recorded in the counting slip- 
in favour of Sri S. N. Misra had been shown against the name of Sri Sri Krishna, 
and vice versa. In other words, there had been an inter-change- 

The position with regard to Polling Station Bahora as found by this witness 
after scrutiny — was that 2 votes cast in favour of Sri Nathu Singh had been 
counted in favour of Sri S. N. Misra. Thus the total number of votes secured 
by Sri S- N. Misra was 199, whereas Sri Sri Krishna had secured only 7 votes- 
In the relevant Form 16 (Ex. XL), however, only 7 votes were shown to have 
been secured by Sri S. N. Misra and 201 votes by Sri Sri Krishna. In other 
words, the figures had been inter-changerl. 

The position with regard to Malikpur Polling Station — as found by this witness 
after scrutiny — was that Sri S. N. Misra had secured 169 votes and Sri Sri Krishna 
60 votes (as entered in the relevant counting slip Ex. XLII), In the relevant 
Form 16 (Ex. XLIII), however, the figures were Inter-changed, so that Sri Misra 
was shown therein to have secured only 60 votes and Sri Sri Krishna 169 votes. 

In answer to a Court question, this witness stated that the mistakes mentioned 
by him. while in the witness-box came to his notice, only during the course of 
his deposition in this Court. He admitted that he was not in a position to say 
whether such mistakes could have been committed In the case of the remaining 
polling stations or not. He further stated that the inter-change (transposition) of 
votes, referred to by him in so many cases, appeared to be deliberate on the part of 
the Supervisors concerned. He conceded that other mistakes mentioned by him, 
i.e., counting of one or two ballot papers this way or that way, could have been 
due to the rush of work and the speed with which the counting was done, 

This concludes the evidence on the side of the election petitioner. 

Three witnesses were examined on behalf of the contesting respondent No. 2. 

D.W, 1 Jaswant Singh Katiyar stated that during the disputed election he had 
worked as election agent of Dr. R. M. Lohia, deceased respondent No, 1. According 
to him, during the counting counting agents of the election petitioner and 
Dr. Lohia were present at every courting table- Counting agents of other 
candidates were present at some of the tables. At the table of the Assistant 
Returning Officer, Sri S. N. Misra, election petitioner, and his counting agent were 
present. After the counting was over at each table, the ballot papers were taken 
by the counting supervisor concerned to the table of the Assisant Returning 
Officer where they were re-checked and re-counted in the presence of the various 
counting agents and thereafter results were noted in Form 16- If any objection 
was raised by any counting agent, that objection was looked into and decided 
by the above-mentioned officer before Form 16 was filled in. Entries in Form 16 
were mnde either by the Assistant Returning Officer himself at his table, or were 
got done at the Assistant Returning Officers table In the hand of the counting 
supervisors. The result of counting for every polling station was, announced by 
the Assistant Returning Officer from his table, and also from the central 
announcing room. At the time entries were made in Form 16, no objections 
were preferred either by Sri S. N- Misra or by hi s counting agents. No complaint 
was made that in respect of the above-mentioned polling stations . namely. 
Amethi Kohna, Baraun, Papihapur, Budhnapur, Bahora. Malikpur and Sheikhpur- 
Rustampur, the number of votes secured by Sri S. N. Misra and Sri Sri Krishna 
had been Intcr-changed in Forms 16. This witness further stated that at the 


Sec. 3(ii; J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTI1CA 24, 1891 4937 


lime of counting no slips were found attached to the bundles of accepted ballot 
papers. The witness further stated that on 23rd February 1967, after the counting 
ot all the Segments was completed and it became known that Dr. Lohia was 
successful, an application for recount was made by Sri S. N. Mlsra, which was, 
however, rejected by the Returning Oilicer on the following day, and Dr. Lohia 
was deBarcd elected. 

D.W. 2 Ram Narain is a cultivator of village Khanpur, and a former Up Pradhan 
and Pradhan of that place. Becoming to him, he had worked for Sri Sri Krishna 
during the last General Elections. In Amethi Kohna, the population consisted Of 
Kisans. Kachhis and Yadavs. The Yadav voters were giving out that they would 
vote for the Yadav candidate. As regards the Kaehhl Kisans, some of them, on 
being persuaded, were prepared to vote for Sri Sri Krishna, while the rest wanted 
to vote for Sri Nathu Singh. Only the Brahmin voters allegedly supported Sri S. N. 
Mlsra. There was not a single Brahman voter In Madhopur. 

D.W. 3 Satish Chandra, a cultivator of Chandpur, Pargana Ahara, similarly 
stated that he had worked for Sri Sri Krishna in the Budhnamau area, during the 
last General Elections. According to him, there were only 2 or 3 Brahman houses 
in village Rampura, which had about 400 or 500 Yadav voters. It was only the 
Brahmans who supported the election petitioner. The Yadavs supported Sri Sri 
Krishna, and the Harijans supported Dr. Lohia. 

This is the entire evidence in this case- What does it show? As pointed out 
earlier, it is manifest that serious mistakes were committed in filling up Forms 18 
of the above-mentioned Polling Stations. The mistake was that the number of votes 
secured by Sri S. N. Misra, election petitioner, and Sri Sri Krishna, respondent 
No. 3, were inter-changed, with the result that Part II of Forms 16 did not correct- 
ly represent the result of counting of the above-mentioed polling stations. As 
already indicated, Part II of Form 16 is filled in on the basis of the result of count- 
ing of the bundles of accepted ballot papers, as shown in the slips attached to 
every such bundle. Form 20, the final resuit sheet, is prepared on the basis of 
Form 16. while Form 21, the return of election, Is prepared on the basis of the 
entries in Form 20. In view of the clear testimony adduced by the election peti- 
tioner, vide the statements of P.W- 1 Sri S. C. Abel, Assistant Registrar, P.W. 3 
Sri R. P. Singh, Deputy Collector (then Assistant Returning Officer) and P-W. 5 
Sri R. M. Bhatnagar, then Returning Officer, it is clearly established that in the 
case of the above-mentioned Polling Stations, in preparing the relevant Form 16, 
the total number of votes secured by Sri S. N. Mlsra and Sri Sri Krishna were 
inter-changed- From the statement of Sri Surendra Bahadur Singh (P-W, 4), then 
Assistant Returning Officer, it would further appear that In Form 20 of Bidhuna 
Segment of Kannauj-67 Parliamentary Constituency (Ex. XXVIII) the grand total 
as entered in page 3 thereof should have been 13,836 votes secured by Sri S. N. 
Misra, whereas the figure stated therein is only 13,638. i.e., 200 less. It has to be 
borne in mind that Sri Elhatnagar (P.W. 5) had the opportunity of scrutinising all 
the relevant ballot papers of the above-mentioned polling stations before he gave 
his statement in this Court. In the face of this evidence, the statement of Sri J. S- 
Kutiyar (D.W. 1) to the effect that no such mistakes were committed cannot, 
obviously, be accepted- 

Therefore, on Issue No. 4(c) my finding is that from the evidence on the record 
it would appear that in respect of" the above-mentioned polling stations, viz. Amethi 
Kohna. Baraun, Papihapur, Budhnamau. Sheikhpur-Rusiampur, Bahora and Malik- 
pur, the election petitioner Sri S. N. Misra actually secured 1509 votes in all while 
Sri Sri Krishna, respondent No- 3 secured 118 votes In all but in the relevant Form 
16, the figures were interchanged, with the result that Sri S. N. Misra was shown 
to have secured 1391 votes less than what he actually secured. Further, in Form 
20 of Bidhuna Segment there was a totalling mistake, due to w'hich Sri S. N. Misra 
was shown to have secured 200 votes less than what he had actually secured in 
that Segment, making a grand total of 1591 votes counted short. 

Issue. No. 14: 

The question then arises whether on the evidence mentioned above this election 
petition can succeed. It was vehemently urged by Sri K. L. Misra, Learned counsel 
for the election petitioner, that since his client has been able to show (vide the 
evidence discussed above) that 1, 591 valid votes cast in his favour were wrong- 
fully left out of consideration, he should be given credit for the same, and if that 
Is done, It would be seen that he had in fact received a majority of the valid votes 
cast at the election, and consequently he was entitled to a declaration to have been 
duly elected instead of Dr. R. M, Lohia, deceased respondent No. 1. I was accord- 
ingly requested to make such a declaration. 



4938 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Pam 11— 


The learned counsel for the contesting respondent Sri R. Varma, on the other 
hand, submitted that the evidence produced in the case, by the election petitioner, 
has no bearing on the case pleaded by him in the election petition. My attention 
was invited to Para 13 of the election petition, wherein it was alleged : — 

“(13) That a number of ballot papers which consisted of valid votes for the 
petitioner, were wrongly mixed up and counted for one or the other of 
the respondents. The details of these, together with approximation of 
the number in each case have been given in Schedule I attached to 
this petition.” 

In column 3 of Schedule I there appears the heading “Petitioner’s votes wrongly 
counted for", and then various figures and names have been given. Mr. Varma 
laid- stress on the fact that there was no allegation in the election petition that 
Forms 10 and 20 had been incorrectly filled in. In this connection he relied upon 
the provisions of Section 83(1) (a) of the Act, whereby an election petition must 
contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies 

Mr. Varma cited Messrs Trojan and Co. v, R.M. N.N. Nagappa Chhettiar (A.I.R, 
1953 Supreme Court, 235) and Siddik Mahomed Shah v. Mt. Saran and others 
(A.I.R. 1930 P.C., 57) In support of his contention that the decision of the case 
cannot be based on grounds outside the pleadings of the parties and il is the case 
pleaded that has to be found. Without an amendment of the plaint — it was urged — 
the Court was not entitled to grant the relief not asked for. He pointed out that 
the election petitioner has never applied for amendment of his pleadings, and, 
therefore, his present contention should not he considered. Mr. Varma further 
argued that election tribunals have as much discretion as the civil court to amend 
the pleadings within the limits prescribed by th e . decisions of the Supreme Court. 
Reliance was placed in this connection on Bhun Sen v. Copalt and others (22 E-L.R., 
288). 

In the next place Mr, Varma submitted that the recount application made on 
23rd February 1967 by the election petitioner to the Returning Officer was rejected 
by the latter vide Ex, 1 on the ground that no case had been made out for a re- 
count. Mr. Varma further pointed out that It was after Inordinate delay that the 
election petitioner applied for inspection of the above 7 or 8 polling stations. The 
election petition was filed on 7th April 1967 and the Inspection application was 
made, as late as on 19th March 1988. He further pointed out that the election 
petitioner has not examined himself, nor has he produced any of his counting 
agents or polling agents. In the circumstances, Mr. Varma submitted that the 
evidence adduced by the election petitioner, should not be considered and the elec- 
tion petition should be thrown out, for lack of evidence. In the alternative, he 
submitted that the evidence adduced by the election petitioner, even if held ad- 
missible, did not establish that he had, in fact, secured a majority of the valid 
votes cast at tha election, He added that if mistakes of such a serious nature 
could be made in Forms 16 of the above-mentioned polling stations, there was no 
guarantee that similar mistakes were not committed In the case of the remaining 
hundreds of polling stations. In his submission, therefore, unless there was a 
complete re-count, a clear picture could not be obtained. 

Sri K. L. Mlsra In his rejoinder submitted that the figures given in Schedule I 
to the election petition were based upon the entries in the Form 16 concerned, and, 
therefore,, it would not be correct to say that the pleadings in the election petition 
were not In conformity with the provisions of Section 83 of the Act. In the alter- 
native, he submitted that even if it be assumed, for the sake of argument, that the 
pleadings were in sufficient, nevertheless no prejudice has been caused to the other 
side, because parties knew what the case was. 

In this connection reliance was nlaced on Bhagwa n Datta Shastri v. Ram Ratanji 
Gupta and others, (A.I-(R. 1960 S.C., 200), wherein their Lordships observed: — 

“There can be no doubt that the requirement of full particulars of corrupt 
practice in the election petition is of paramount importance, but where, 
notwithstanding the absence of particulars, the evidence Is allowed to 
be given and taken, the question would not be one of absence of 
jurisdiction but as to whether there has been any material prejudice, 
occasioned by the absence of particulars.” 

It was further contended that the expression “counted for” occurring in column 
3 of Schedule I to the election petition, could Include Ihe entire process of count- 
ing, i.e., up to the stage of declaration of the result. 

As regards the alleged delay in applying fo- Inspection of the ballot papers of 
the above-noted polling stations, Sri K. L. Misra’s argument was that there was no 



Sec. 3(iiJ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4939 


undue delay and the inspection application was submitted ag soon as possible. 
Accordingly, it was urged on behalf of the election petitioner that having succeeded 
in showing that in the above-mentioned polling stations, he had secured 1591 
more votes than shown in Forms 18 and 20, he was entitled to a declaration that he, 
and not Dr. R-M. Lohla, had been duly elected to the Lok Sabha from the Kan- 
nauj-67 Parliamentary Constitutency, by reason of the fact that he and not Dr. 
Lohia, actually, had received a majority of the vaiid votes. 

As regards the further contention raised by the learned counsel for the contest- 
ing respondent that the evidence so far adduced by the election petitioner was In- 
conclusive in nature, and the correct position could not be ascertained unless all 
the ballet papers cast at the election were again scrutinised and counted, Shrl 
K.L. Misra’s argument was that such a course was not only unnecessary but also 
would not be warranted in the absence of a valid recrimination petition, He point- 
ed out that although Dr. Lohia had filed a recrem) aatory petition, this Court held 
on 25th January, 1988 that the same had abated. Thus, in fact, there Is no pend- 
ing recriminatory petition, In the absence of a recriminatory petition— It was so 
contended — the entries made in Forms 18 and 20 of the remaining polling stations 
should be presumed to be correct, vide Rule 58(6) of the Conduct of Election Rules, 
1061, whereby;-— 

“Every ballot paper, which Is not rejected under this rule shall be counted 
as one valid vote- 1 ’ 

Sri Mlsra further pointed out that according to the result declared by the Returning 
Officer on 24th February 1967, the election petitioner had polled 03,106 valid votes, 
a 3 against 93,578 votes polled by Dr. Lohia, In other words, Dr, Lohia was 
declared to have won the election by a majority of only 472 votes. Since the 
evidence adduced by the election petitioner on Issue No. 2(c) shows that 1591 
more votes should have been counted In his favour, it was urged that the election 
petitioner has fully discharged the onus which lay upon him to prove that he had 
in fact secured a majority of the valid votes cast in the election, vide Section 
101(a) of the Act. 

In support of his argument Sri K. L- Misra cited Ja bar Singh v. Genda Lai 
(A.I.R. 1964 Supreme Court, 1200), wherein, after holding that the view taken 
by a Bench of this Court in Lakshml Shankar Yadav v. Kunwar Sripal Singh 
(22 E.L.R., 47) did not represent the correct scope of the enquiry under Sections 100 
and 101 of the Act, their Lordships indicated as under: — 

“Scope of the enquiry in a case falling under Section 100(1) (d) (iii) is to 
determine whether any voles have been improperly cast in favour 
of the returned candidate, or any votes have been improperly refused 
or rejected In regard to any any other candidate. These are the 
only two matters which would be relevant In deciding whether the 
election of the returned candidate has been materially affected or not. 
At this enquiry, the onus Is on the petitioner to show that by reason 
of the Infirmities specified in Section 100(1) (d) (iii), the result of the 
returned “candidate's election has been materially affected, and that 
Incidentally helps to determine the scope of the enquiry. Therefore, 
It seems to us that In the case of a petition where the only claim 
made is that the election of the returned candidate is void, the scope 
of the enquiry Is clearly limited by the requirement of Section 
100(1) (d) itself. The enquiry is limited not because the returned 
candidate has not recriminated under Section D7(l); in fact, Section 
97(1) has no application to the case falling under Section 100(1) (d) 
(iii); the scope of the enquiry is limited, for the simple reason, that 
what the clause requires to be considered is whether the election of 
the returned candidate 'has been materially affected and nothing 
else. If the result of the enquiry Is in favour of the pensioner who 
challenges the election of the returned candidate, the Tribunal has 
to make a declaration to that effect, and that declaration brings to 
an end the proceedings in the election petitions. 

“There are, however, cases In which the election petition makes a double 
claim; it dlaims that the election of the returned candidate is void, 
and also asks for a declaration that the petitioner himself or some 
other person has been duly elected. It is In regard to such a compo- 
site case that Section 108 as well as Section 101 would apply, and it 
is in respect of the additional claim for a declaration that some other 
candidate has been duly elected that Section 97 comes into play. 
Section 97(1) thus allows the “returned candidate to recriminate and 
raise pleas in support of his case that the other person jn whose favour 



4940 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTUCA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


a declaration is claimed by the petition cannot be said to be validly 
elected and these would be pleas of attack and it would be open to 
the returned candidate to take these pleas, because when he recrimi- 
nates he really becomes a counter -petitioner, challenging the validity 
of the election of the alternative candidate. The result of section 97(1), 
therefore, is that in dealing with a composite election petition, the 
Tribunal enquiries into not only the case made out by the petitioner, 
but also the counter-claim made by the returned candidate. That 
being the nature of the preceedings contemplated by Section 97(1), it 
is not surprising that the returned candidate is required to make his 
recrimination and serve notice, in that behalf in the manner and 
within the time specified by Section 97(1) proviso and Section 97(2). 
If the returned candidate does not recriminate as required by sec- 
tion 97, then he cannot make any attack against the alternative claim 
made by the petition. In such a case an enquiry would be held under 
section 100 so far as the validity of the returned candidate’s election 
is concerned, and if as a result of the said enquiry declaration is made 
that the election of the returned candidate is void, then the Tribunal 
will proceed to deal with the alternative claim, but in doing so, the re- 
turned candidate will not be allowed to lead any evidence because he 
is precluded from missing any pleas against the validity of the claim 
of the alternative candidate. 

“It is true that Section 101(a) requires the Tribunal to find that the peti- 
tioner or such other candidate, for the declaration of whose election 
a prayer is made in the election petition has, in fact received a majo- 
rity of the valid votes. It cannot be said that the Tribunal cannot 
make a finding that the alternative candidate has in fact received a 
majority of the valid votes unless all the votes cast at the election 
are scrutinised and counted. _As a result of Rule 57, the Election 
Tribunal will have to assume that every ballot paper which had not 
been rejected under Rule 56 constituted one valid vote and it is on 
that basis that the finding will have to be made under section 101(a). 
Section 97(1), undoubtedly gives an opportunity to the returned candi- 
date to dispute the validity of any of the votes cast In favour of the 
alternative candidate or to plead for the validity of any vote cast in 
his favour which has been rejected; but if, by his failure to make 
recrimination within time as required by Section 97, the returned 
candidate is precluded from raising any such plea, at the hearing of 
the election petition, there would be nothing wrong if the Tribunal 
proceeds to deal with the dispute under Section 101(a) on the basis 
that the other votes counted by the returning officer wore valid votes 
and that votes in favour of the returned candidate, if any, which were 
rejected, were invalid.” 

The learned counsel for the contesting respondent, while submitting rhat the 
above decision is not applicable to the facts of the present case, cited Nathu Ram 
Shikshak v. R. P. Dikshit (1965 A.L.J., 25), wherein a Full Bench of this Court 
held as follows; — 

"It is not correct that in an election petition based on the ground of Sec- 
tion 100(1) (d) (iii) the Tribunal has sue motu to consider all votes 
counted in favour of all candidates and all votes rejected and refus- 
ed and thart before deciding whether the result of the successful candi- 
date’s election was materially affected or not it must see that no valid 
vote was rejected and no void or prohibited vote was received and 
accepted. Rules 57 and 58 show that every ballot paner that is not 
rejected is presumed to be valid. It was on account of this presump- 
tion that the Supreme Court held In Jabar Singh v. Genda Lai (A.I.H. 
1964 S.C„ 1200 at 1208) that Tribunal is not required, in a petition 
based on the ground of section 100(1) (d) (iii) to scrutinize all the 
ballot papers. It does not follow that a Tribunal cannot scrutinize 
certain ballot papers, at the instance of the returned candidate if he 
has not filed a notice of recrimination. The presumption is only in 
respect of ballot pa-pers which are not rejected and simply shifts the 
onus of proof, it is a rebuttable presumption and operates only if it is 
not rebutted. It can be rebutted by showing that certain ballot 
papers ought to have been rejected and were erroneously not reject- 
ed; as soon as this is shown, the presumption is rebutted and the bal- 
lot papers have to be rejected. A returned candidate, against when 
a petition has been filed, has the Inherent right of rebutting the case 




SEC. 3 (ii) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4941 


p rima Facie made out against him; no statutory provision conferring 
this right is required at all. It is his inherent right, because without 
his having an opportunity to exercise it, he cannot efficiently defend 
the petition. The right of defending the petition includes the right of 
rebuttal of a prima facie case made out by the pertitioner. If it is 
essential !for him, for the purpose of rebutting the prima facie case 
of the petitioner, to show that certain ballot papers ought to have been 
rejected by the Returning Officer and were, therefore, not valid, he 
has a right to do so and that right has not been taken away by Rules 
26 and 57, or any other provision of the Act or the Rules, Section 97 
does not deal with this right at all. Its exercise is not dependent 
upon any notice of recrimination. Surely it cannot be said that a 
notice of recrimination is essential when a petitioner claims the seat for 
himself or any other candidate, whereas it would not be essential in 
the absence of such a claim- If In a petition in which no such claim is 
made the returned candidate has the right of proving that there was 
improper reception etc. in respect of votes other than those which are 
the subject matter of the petition without having to file a 
notice of recrimination (which would not be required at 
all because there is no claim for the seat) the fact that in another 
petition such a claim is made should not deprive the returned candi- 
date of that petition of the right, The right of rebuttal and the man- 
ner in which it can be exercised do not at all depend upon whether 
such a claim is made in the petition or not and whatever right of 
rebuttal exists when no such claim is made exists even when such a 
claim is made.” 

“When void votes are received or when votes are improperly received, re- 
fused or rejected and the result is that a person who did not legally 
receive a majority of the valid votes was declared duly elected, his 
election can be questioned under section 100(1) (d) (ill). The ground 
for questioning the election is the improper reception etc. of votes 
materially affecting the result of the returned candidate’s election, 
The petitioner has to prove two facts, (1) that the reception etc. was 
improper, and (2) that thereby the result of the returned candidate’s 
election was materially affected, The petitioner would fail if either 
fact remain sunproved. If the petitioner prima facie proves both, 
the returned candidate may disprove either or both, and on his dis- 
proving either or both the petitioner would fail. If he is unable to 
disprove the first fact, he can disprove the other fact, only by showing 
that there was improper reception etc. In respect of other votes and 
that consequently the effect of the improper reception eto« alleged by 
the petitioner was nullified or reversed by the effect of the improper 
reception etc. of other votes. The failure on the part of the returned 
candidate to disprove the first fact, does not deprive him of the right 
to disprove the other fact. Just as the petitioner has to prove both 
the facts, so also the returned candidate has the right to disprove one 
of them without being able to disprove the other. The only manner 
in which he can disprove the other fact is by proving that there was 
improper reception etc. other than that proved by the petitioner and 
that it had the reverse or nullifying effect. To debar the returned 
candidate from showing other improper reception etc. would amount 
to debarring him from disproving the other fact, i.e., denying him 
the right of rebuttal. It, therefore, cannot be said that such a~ peti- 
tion is confined only to an inquiry into the particular votc 3 mentioned 
in the petition and that an inquiry into votes is always a recrimination 
proceeding governed by Section 97, ‘That the result of the returned 
candidate’s election was materially affected by the improper recep- 
tion, etc., of votes’ Is a perfectly good ground for a petition. Which 
votes were improperly received, etc. is a matter of evidence to prove 
the ground. The ground is that votes were improperly received etc. 
and is proved by showing that particular votes were improperly receiv- 
ed etc. The votes selected by the petitioner do not exhaust the ground 
for the simple reason that the result Of the election depends not only 
upon the votes which are the subject-matter of the petition, but also 
upon other votes. Even if it be said that the ground is the Improper 
reception etc. of particular votes, in considering the effect of if upon 
the result of the election, the Tribunal must consider imnroper re- 
ception etc, of other votes in respect of which evidence has been given, 
by the returned candidate. The petitioner naturally selects >nly 



4942 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


those votes, the improper reception etc. of which has the effect of 
increasing the number pf votes of the returned candidate or decreas- 
ing the number of votes of. a defeated candidate, but the returned 
candidate's right of rebuttal is not confined to the votes proved to 
have been improperly received etc." 

I have considered the matter. In the present case, as already indicated the 
returned candidate, Dr, R. M. Lohia, died during the pendency of this petition. 
He had filed a recriminatory petition which, as held by this Court, abated by 
reason of his death. After the death of Dr. Lohia, it is only Sri Nathu Singh, 
respondent No. 2, who has been opposing this election petition to some extent. 
The evidence adduced by the election petitioner on Issue No. 2(c), as already 
discussed above, shows that in the case of polling Stations Ametlii Kohna, Baraun, 
Fapihapur, Rudhnamau, Shelkhpur-Ruslampur, Bahera and Mallkpur, while filling 
up Forms 16 and 20, the number of votes secured by Sri S. N. Mlsra has been 
noter against Sri Sri Krishna, respondent No. 3, and vice versa. The Returning 
Officer Sri R. M. Bhatnagar (P.W, 5) frankly admitted that the above inter-change 
appeared to toe deliberate on the part of the Supervisors concerned. In this state 
of affairs any presumption that Forms 16 and 20 of the remaining hundreds of 
polling stations were correctly filled in, would be, to a large extent, rebutted. 
The relief sought by the petitioner is that the election of respondent No. 1 Dr. 
R. M. Lohia to the Lok Sabha, from Kannauj-67 Parliamentary Constituency be 
set aside, and he (the election petitioner) be duly declared to have been validly 
elected thereto by a majority of valid votes. The total number of votes cast at 
the election, as already indicated, came to 2,94,695 (vide the answer given by 
the Returning Officer Sri R. M. Bhatnagar to a Court question). All that the 
election petitioner has so far been able to show is that at the seven polling stations, 
named above, mistakes were committed in filling Form 16, as a result of which 
the votes secured by him were shown as having been secured by respondent No. 3 
Sri Sri Krishna, and vice versa, with the result that his total was affected to the 
extent of 1591 votes (including the totalling mistake in Form 20 Bidhuna Seg- 
ment). In my opinion, therefore, the correct overall position cannot be ascertained 
unless and until all the ballot papers are again scrutinized and counted. It is a 
case primarily of the Court, in the circumstances, wanting to ascertain the correct 
position in the interest of justice. It Is noteworthy that in para 27 of the election 
petition the election petitioner has made a grievance of the fact that his applica- 
tion for recount was rejected by the Returning Officer on 24th February, 1967. 

In Swami Rameshwara Nand v. Shri Madho Ram and another, Civil Apeal 
No. 1039 of 1968i (of the Supreme Court), their Lordships Dassed the following 
order on 12th September, 1968: — 

(A certified copy of that order has been shown to me). 

“As a result of the report of the tellers, it Is quite clear that the counting 
has been very inaccurate. Numerous Instances have been brought to 
our notice which clearly show that votes of one side have been counted 
as votes of the other side, Whether it is for one party or the other, 
it makes no difference, It is quite clearly demonstrated thaf" the offi- 
cers who counted these votes did not do their duty either honestly_or 
carefully. In these circumstances, w 0 think that a general re-6ount 
is necessary in the present case.” 

Sri K. L. Misra, for the election petitioner, submitted that m the above case, 
there was a recriminatory petition. It, however, appears that a general recount 
was ordered by their Lordships on the ground that numerous Instances of mis- 
counting had been noted and that; it was demonstrated that the officers, who had 
counted the votes did not do their duty carefully or honestly. The position in the 
present case is very similar. Accordingly, a general re-count In the present case 
also seems necessary in the interests of justice, so that the correct position could 
be ascertained, 

Consequently, the Registrar of this Court is directed to make suitable arrange, 
ments for all the votes cast in the disputed election to be re-scrutinized and re- 
counted, in accordance with the rules and regulations, under the supervision of 
a senior officer of this Court — Additional Registrar or Joint Registrar— and in the 
presence of the contesting parties, A report should be submitted to me in due 
course— to enable me to proceed further — showing the number of valid votes se- 
cured by each candidate. The matter should be expedited. 

The cost of the re-count will be borne by the election petitioner. 

Dt, 31-1-1969. (Sd.) t. R. 

[No. 82/14 oC 1967/UP/ 09(ALLD). ] 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4943 


ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 17th October 1969 

5.0. 4543, — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Narayan 
Baskey R/o village Chatanpani, P. O, Dhalbhumgarh, District Singhbhum a 
contesting candidate lor election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from Ghatsila 
Assembly Constituency, hus failed to lodge an account of his election expenses 
as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules, made 
thereunder; 

2. And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for 3uch failure; 

3. Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Narayan Baskey, to be disqualified 
for being chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a ‘period of 
three years from the date of this order. 

[No. BR-LA/283/6 9(27).] 
New Delhi, the 21 st October 1969 

5.0. 4544. — Whereas the Election Commission Is satisfied that Shri Rajnarain 
Rai, R/o village and P. O, Parana Panapur, District Patna (Bihar) a contesting 
candidate for election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from Danapur Assembly 
Constituency, has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required 
by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and lhb Rules made thereunder; 

2. And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure; 

3. !S 4 pw, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Rajnarain Rai, to be disqualified for 
being chosen as and for being a member of cither House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period 
of three years from the date of this order, 

[No. BR-LA/207/69(28).] 
New Delhi , the 23 rd October 1960 

5.0. 4545. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Satyadeo 
Thakur, R/o village Alamnagar Tola Sonbarsa, P. O. Bhagipur Narthua, District 
Saliarsa (Bihar) a contesting candidate for election to the Bihar Legislative 
Assembly from Alamnagar Assembly Constituency, has failed to lodge an account 
of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

2. And whreas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justiflecation for such failure; 

3. Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Satyadeo Thakur, to be disqualified for 
being chosen as and for toeing a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

[No, BR-LA/ 117/09(29).] 

S.O. 4546. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Bishwar 
Nath Mahto, R/o Village Rajakuan, P.O. Biharsharif, District Patna (Bihar) 
a contesting candidate for election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from 
Asthawan Assembly Constituency, has failed to lodge an account of his election 
expenses as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1961 and the 
Rules made thereunder; 

2 . And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure; 

3. Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission Jiereby declares the said Shri Bishwar Nath Mahto, to be disqualified 
for being chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a neriod of 
three years from the date of this order. 

[No. BR-LA/ 196/ 69 (30) J 



4944 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part 11— 


S.O. 4547 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Hari Narain 
Roy, R/o village Manpur, P, O. Katasa, Distirct Saran (Bihar), a contesting 
candidate for election to the Bihar Eegislative Assembly from Marhaura Assembly- 
Constituency, has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

2. And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission Is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure; 

3, Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shrl Hari Narain Roy, to be disqualified 
for being chosen as and for being a member of either House cf Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

[No. BR-LA/ 41/69 (31).] 

S.O. 4548 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Lawlin 
Tiwari, R/O village Banni, P.O, Nagara, Dislrict Saran (Bihar), a contesting 
candidate for election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from Jalalpur Assembly 
Constituency has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

2. And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation fo rthe failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for such failure; 

3, Now, therefore, In pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Lawlin Tiwari, to be disqualified for 
being chosen as an and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order, 

[No, BR-LA/ 42/69(32).] 

S.O. 4549 . — .Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Mohan 
Prasad Yadav, R/O village Narpa, P.O. Sughrine, District Darbhanga (Bihar) a 
contesting candidate for election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from Hasanpur 
Assembly Constituency, has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses 
within the time and in the manner required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 , and the Rules made thereunder; 

2. And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for such failure; 

3. Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Mohan Prasad Yadav, to be disqualified 
for being chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

[No. BR-LA/103/69 (33) .] 

S.O. 4650 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Deocharan 
Paswan, R/O village Jaitia, P.O. Fatwa. District Patna (Bihar) a contesting candi- 
date for election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from Fatwa Assembly Con- 
stituency has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

2 And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for such failure; 

3. Now therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Deocharan Paswan, to be disqualified 
for being chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative ‘Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

[No. BR-LA/194/69/ (34) .] 

By Order, 

A. N, SEN, Secy. 



-Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4945 


qTtq fqqfaq WTqfq 

qt 17 WqqSR, 1969 

tjtfo 5T>o 45 51, — qq:, fqqfqq !iTqVT 3>T ffBTSTFT JRT | f% fqfR: fatTR 

qqr % fqir fqqfqq % fcrq qTfftrr fqqfqq-£iq ir qrq qT^ wrtr «fr qrtrqq 
qrq% fqqrrfr irw-fBEft qrq'r, tfo srqqqn, faqr fqf^q, fq^rr, qfar nfqfqfsr?q 
qfqfqqq 1951 qqr cT^sffq qqn? qrr fqqrff JTTT 5TT%cT STqq fqqfqq *33? TT iqJI Trf^'T 
3.77? Sr 1 

sfhc, m:, qqq %, q% qrqr gqqr fg^r te? tt qt srqrft r?q wrTqqr %■ 

f%tr qrtf qrnnq qqqr 7wfqr7qr q^f fen I; qqr fqqfqq qraiq qrr qqnqrq qr nqr | ftp 
qq% qrrq tr ^rfr-frqqr % fair Eft qqfq qm qr ?qm>fVq q$f t; 

*nr:, wq, qqq srfsrfqqtr ^ srrcr 1 o-r % qqqr°r if fqqfnq amPr qq^anr qqq 
«ft qrmpq qra% q? qqq % faqff tr qqq % qr fqqft TRq 9ft fqvr-T ?r*TT wrrr fqqrq 
qfrqq % qsrq q t qrq tffr tR % fqq qq qrtq qft qrtlrer i? ttq qf tr qqsrrqfsr % fqn 
faqfi^r qtfeq ttttt % \ 

[qo f^TT Pro qo/283/69(27)] 
qf ftwft, 21 q'fqqq, 1969 

tjqo qto 4552 . — m: , fqqfqq w?m qn qqrrnq ft qqr | % fq^rr fqsnq 
qqr % fqq fqqfqq % fqcr 207 qTqT^T fqqfqq m t fqqr WET qf% W«fRTqT7: «ff 
Trqqnqqq tht, fqqqfr rrrq q«rr yro-jtTqr trt^t fwwr-qwqr (fqfiq), wtT 
srfqfqfqwr srfafqqq, 1951 qqr qqtffr qqro qo fqqqf im mim qq?r fqqfqq *qqf 
*PT wqrr qrfqrq *pqrr Jr srqqiq | ; 

qtq, qq: f tft \d*-*fWqi < q 37? ^qq? Hrif qrq or ‘*f? seet? qq^FErr 
% fqq Erf TiTrrr igqqr wtlTET qf? f?qr I, mj fqqfqq wnftq «rr q^ qqrarq ft qqr | 
fqr qq% TTE 23 % fqiT trt qqtq TTTq- qr ?qnr?f%r q^r I ; 

m:, m, 3 tt srftrfqqq sttt i o-T % ?iqq Jr fqqfqq qrqrq no^irr qqq 
>tr qrqqraqq eft t? qq^ % <lq'f qqqf q % %qf r <fr qqq % qr f^tr TRq ^ fqgyq 
qqr qqqr fqqrq qftqq % qqr? qt qp? qk 5 tq % fqq 23 qrqq qf? qrrtqr q q)q qt 
4f? Ti-qrqfq % fqrr fq%r qtfqq -prqr | 1 

[q° fq^Rfqo 30 / 207 / 09(2 8)] 

qf f3F7f?, 23 qqffqq, 1969 

qqo wfo 4553 . — qq:, fqqiqq qmtq Tr qqranq' qqT | f% f^rr fqqTq 
qqr % fqq fq^ f qq % fqp qrqq h et fqqfqq-sqq q^qiq q^qqrq qrqft^qn: qt q?q 
tq 5Tf7 fqmq? rmr qrqqqqr, ttqr-qlqqrqr, ito qpflqT qqqr, fqqr-q^rqT 
(fqqR) rrfqr qfqfqq?? qfqfqqq, 19 51 qqr q^fp? 3313 qr? ft qqT 3TE wrfwq q-rq 
Bqqf qrr qrfqrq ^ if m'M 7^ |; 




4946 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


sfR, ee, tee E«ffaER e, pw gw fail Efa tt vfr eeeI %h stetw % 
faq Ttf tre wn etrItee Tsff farr eet faEfar srrEfa ti eeiete ^1 eet | 1% 

EE% TIE ITT WETHET % fapr Tt^ EEfaf TRE El RrEtfEET Tff| I 

EE:, EE, EEE ErfafalEE 4?1 am 1 0-T ^ EE ^ fEEfag ERfa i^EER! 
EEE El g3-T$E 3Tf T T> PET % Efaf EEET Sf f%El tft ETE % ET fafal TRT ^ falER EET 
eeet faET ePee^ % eeet ^E pfa ^ s.e # ERfar Tl Hfa ee Tt 
TrErEfar % fpir faRffr ^ftf^?r teti 1 1 

[go fa^R fao go/ n 7/69 (29)] 

ttro w >o 4554 . — ee:, fagm etete ti eeistte jfr eet | f% fagR faETE eei 

% fpr fagfgg ^ fafa ETETET fagfav iifa % "fETE E?% Elfa R^RER NT fawiTE Effal 
faEFfr Tpr-'-nTrifm 'ito-faxi rt dT, fam ret (fafR), tit EfafafsieE EftrfaEE, 
i95i cTet ?rA eer ett farm rm e^ste eeE faEfarg ret et ett tiInt 
ERE if 5HPEW T|f ; 

?ffa, 43 :, RE RnffaER 4, EE E^FE IJEEr ffa EFT R El SUET EE WETTEI 
% frr Ttf TTET EW f^RfaRE E^T faET |, 341 fEEfEE EPEE TI EETOTE ?> 
EET t fa EE% TIE SE EETEET %falEfa£ EET r E ERE 41 RP-IlffaE Ejff | ; 

EE:, 44, WE Efafa'lE Tl E1TT 1 0-T % EEERT E ffarfEE ETElE t^?SfTr TEE 
El faVEETE Efft Tt EEE % ETeT EEEt E % faET EV EEE % El fafat TR4 TT fEETE EE I 
EW fEETE EfETE % EE^E EE TTE ?At ifET T fEE TE E14E TT EREJ E EE! EE TT 
T i *?t i q (Ij % ('•I 11 , fg if^d ql f'in TTET ^ I 

[E o-fE?TT-fEoEo/ 1 9 6/ 6 9 ( 3 0 ) ] 

Epo wV 45 5 5* — EE:, fEE?EE ETEET TT EE1ETE fl EE1 | f% fE^TT fa EFT EEI 
% fapr faglEE T faE ETfar f'EETEEAfa E YrtE TfE ETE TPEKETT NT ETTTEE 7TE 
faETTfl ETE-ETEET, Eto-TTET, farET- ERE (fa^R.) , ElT EpEfafacE Efafaqrr, 1 9 5 1 EET 
EElflE EEirr TpT farqTTf 5R1 ST'fa fa 4 fa E SEE! TT ^ETT ElfapE pfa Jr TETE t| % ; 

«fk, ee:, eee erRer Jr, eJi efet ^eet faJr pfa et eV, teeV w eettet 

% fafa Efl^ TTRT EEET FFTfaRl E^f f%ET | ; EET fa^faE Tfafa TT EETETE EET 

$fTEE%ETE'?E^'EEiWET%faFlEEfaTTT’RTETRTETfE?EE^i t 

WE:, EE, EEE EfafaEE fa 1 ERT 1 0-T % E^ETT if faEtEE ETEtE EERRT EEE 
Hfl ffa ERTEE TTE TT ^EE % Efaf EEEt E E faET Efr EET % ET fEEl TT EE El faSTFT EET 
Rfl faETE EfaEE % ERE EE EFT ETE faE % faTE ^ ERE TT ElftET % K'tE EE R 
TTETEfE % fEE falTfaE EtfaE ERET ^ I 


[Eo-fagR-fao Eo/4l/69/(3l)] 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDTA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4947 . 

N> 4 5 5 6 - — NT:, pRpFT NTWpT NT TTTTrW f T NNT ^ f% PffR fpTTT TNT % 
Ptn pRfNW % Pw ttinpr PTNfww-ePr P twin t?P ntP T^PfarR *ft ttwR 
pREp pRRp NTT Tpt, Nto TWTT, fw TRW (Pl?TR), TfW NPrfTfpTT nPiPtNT, 
1951 TNT TTHpT NTTTr R pTNT i JRT NpftlT NNp pRfaT ^NNl NT P<JT TlpTT NRT P 
NTN>W $ ; 

Nk, nt:, tnt tiPUnr P, tP t^nn ^ttt for ttt nt Pt, N<rwt w m^rr % 
Ptn nPI trw nnnt wiwi Rf Ptnc |; tnt PrPnt ntnnn nt wTrarw nti | Pf 
tw% ntt whth % fww nP£ wnP-t nttw nt rNTwrfwTT wgP |; 

nt:, m, tnt NfsrfrNW nP tkt i o-w % nttrw P PtnPnt nrPt q^zztu tnt 
« ft TTWpT fcRPp Np Tfp^ % NfPf P P fkfr '41" TR % NT f*FRft TRN Np PWTN TWT NNNT 
PrtriT qRqr t tnrt ^P wiP Nk ^PP % Ptn nt nkw nP trtn P Pft nP nP ntti-tPi 

% fwN pRpT NTfpT NRTT | I 

[# o-fqfR-ir t>T0 / 4 2 / 6 9 ( 3 2 ) ] 
17T° Wt° 4 5 5 7 ■ — NT:, pR^WT NTnPn NT TWTTTT ?> NNT | pF fp?[R pNTTN TNT 

% PtP Print P P-rP prj? Pr?nt-^n P ^tr t?P tit tprPrr Pt wtfr hw 

TINT pRT?ft NtT TOT, Npo JJWR, fTWf NTWNT (fap[R), NTT NfTpTfPrN' NfaPTNT, 
1951 TNT TWT NTTN NT pRffl JRT NpfpT TTN % NRT TNT <tfT P NTT Pr'Nt 
WRT NT pUT STpsTT TR^ P' NTTT Tf |; 

5fhT, NT: TTT TwpTTR T, T^T WRRT ^TTr Tl^T TT *fT, T'TTT m NTTTTT T 
PR TTt TRW NW TFTpRW T?P fRT % I TNT PrHw NTTtT TT TTT9TT f) TNT | 
Pf wt% ttt ?tt nttttt Prt Ttf twPt trw m rtnUt^t t|V |; 

NT:, NT, TTT nPtPrT tP HIT 1 0-W % NTTRW T pRtTT NTTpT TTTJRT TNT 
«ft NtfT TTR NRT Tt TTT^ % Ttwf TTTf N TT PfTft Tp TTT ^ NT PpTt TRT Np pTTTT 
TNT NNTT PTTR TpRT % TTTT ^T TTT Nk ?TT % pR ?T NlPw Np TITlN P tPt TT 

nP rtttPt % frr Pr^t ttPtt tittt | i 

[to frfR-ProTo/l0 3/69( 33)} 
TTT 0 W>° 4 5 58. — NT;, pRpNT NTNpT NT TTTTTT NNT | PF fT^TT fpTTT TNT %' 

PrN PrPnt P Ptn Tg^T PiNirr-pT P ^tr TfP ttt rnPntr tT ttttw trrr 
Print NTT TpRT, TT° Nig^T, fTTT NTR (Pt|R), TINT jrfTpTfTcT NftrpRT, 1951 
TNT T^ftT TTHT NTi PlNWf SRT nPPtT NTT PTTfTT RpT NT TTT TTpJT NRp p" 
NTTT T|.t ; 

Nk, NT:, TNT TRtNTR, T, TT TFNN ^TWT fR TTp NT '*P, NTp W NTT TTT % 

Pin 1 wit nrw nnnt tftPnrw t?P Ptnt I, tnt Ptnttt ntnTn nt tttbtt nnt f Pf 

TT% NTT ^T NTNiTTr % PtP nTi^ NNfTT NTRW NT RTNlfTTT T|)T | ! 

NT:, NT, TNT NfsfpRN Np TRT 1 0-Ni % N^TTW P PtnPnT jNTNtw NTTTRT TNT 
Np ^TNTT NTTTR NP TT^ % NPff TTTt T P fPPt PV TTT % NT PrP TFR Np fTTTT TNT 



-494 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


WTT fatllR 'ifvq* % 4% 511% 4K j?T% % f‘T% 14 5TT%H 4% dlfttaT % %t4 4% 

444T5fftT % f~PT %)ftd JfiTRI | I 

[%o— fsifR— faoH°/l94/69( 34)] 


wr%?r %, 


ITo IT^O 44 ^ff'ET 1 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 24th October 1909 

S.O. 4559. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Delhi 
Special Police Establishment Act, 1940 (25 of 1946), the Central Government 
hereby specifies the following offences as the offences which arc to be investi- 
gated by the Delhi Special Police Establishment, namely: — 

(a) offences punishable under sections 5, 0, 9 and 10 of the Assam Opium 

Prohibition Act, 1947, 

(b) attempts, abetments and conspiracies in relation to or in connection 

with one or more of the offences mentioned in clause (a) and any 
other offence committed in the course of the same transaction arising 
out of the same facts, 

[No. 228/3/69- AVD (II).] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the '24th October 1969 

8.0. 4560. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
'5 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1940 (25 of 1940), the Central 
Government hereby extends the powers and jurisdiction of the members of the 
Delhi Special Police Establishment to the State of Assam for the investigation 
•of any of the offences specified below', namely: — 

(a) offences punishable under sections 5, 6, 9 and 10 of the Assam Opium 

Prohibition Act, 1947. 

(b) attempts, abetments and conspiracies in relation to or in connection 

with one or more of the offence mentioned in clause (a) and any 
other offences committed in the course of the same transaction arising 
out of the same facts. 

[No. 228/3/ 09- AVD (II ) .] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 20 th September 1969 

S.O. 4511. — In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
'-of Home Affairs No. S.O. 2050, dated the 9th July 1909 published in the Gazette 
of India, Part. II — Section 3 — sub-section (ii), dated 19th July, 1969 at page 2951, 
in the second line from bottom for “section” read “sections”. 

[No. 228/7/09-AVD(II).] 
B, C. VANJANI, Under Secy. 


4f fac#, 24 1969 

Wto 4562- — fw 1 ? ’jf'eTR PTUPTT sqfsjfWT, 1946 (l946 

du 2 54 i ) , # sun 3 s ru srtt ufeTi 44 mfPi |rr rtrtt smisff 



Sec. 3 (il ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 494^ 


to tot TOt if TTfrofro tort t, faro fwifa t/to tofrt tt stott 
i TO: — 

(t) tor st#r frod ^fafrorR, 1947# trrrmr- 5, e, 9 qq 1 o-t TOB far 
TOiqtR tottr 1 

(sr ) TO (Ri) if TfwTfTO RT Pptft RR TTTT % qT qr ITT % R fa-T q T T iTTTTsr, 
3ft TOR TfVfFTfalfr R TOr'lH TOR TOR % TVTR it frq ijq ^qrTtj % 
TOT qr f'TOrfTO if f%q rpr et^Tt^T, feq TTq arjjqTR TOT TO? TO TORT 1 

[R° 22 8/3/69-STo^oSTo(2) J 


wrist 

df favvft, 24 TORT 1969 

qTOWto 4563 — %^fr f?m RfTO TRTRT wfafdTO, 1 946 ( 1 94 6 TT 

2 5Tr) qft srm 5 tottcrt (i) tott tott wfarof to tort tto § q to^tr ettoto 
fdRf%fTO TOTTEff if TOITO % fETR fTO=ft Rfro f«TM % TTOTTfrofi % wftrWTT’ 

tot tor-to TO m tor totTO | : — 

(t) tor fTTsr ’TfsrfTTR, 1947 qft srirratr s, 6, sq? io%trtTOt 

T'^ftT WRTTST I 

(w) it / (TO) r Tferfecr rt fTOft rr tort T rt rt qr ir Rfar Rif tottst 

3 ft RETd RfTOTOfdRT it ERR TOR TOR % ihTd it 1 %q TO dTTOfT TO 
tor rt if fTOq qq tor, frq qq r^tot tott^to tort i 

[ddRT 228 / 3/ 6 9-T0 RO TO-2J 
rR <i'3f rff o RTroft, 
TOT qfdq I 


New Delhi, the 1st November 1969 

S.O. 4564. — In exercise of sub-section (2) of section 2 of the Dadra and 
Nagar Haveli (Civil Courts and Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulation, 1963 
(8 of 1963). the Central Government, after consultation with the High Court at 
Bombay, appoints with effect from the 6th day of October, 1969, Shri B. N. Dongre, 
Joint Civil Judge (Junior Division) and Judicial Magistrate, 1st class, Nasik, as. 
Civil Judgw for the purposes of the said Regulation. 

[No. 3/23/68-GP-J 
R. C. GUPTA, Under Secy. 


df faTO?, 1 TORT, 196 9 

m WTo 4565 . — TRT T dRT (fdfTOT RRTTO sftT fafTO RTTOTOT 

fafippT, 1963 ( 1963 TO 84f), TO TO 2 TO dTOTq ( 2) % *t RRftq SWT 



4950 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Past II— 

RTRRTRT ^ TORS? TiTT % TFfiTT, a W»rc, 1 96 9 ^ «ft sfto (pfo yffil;, IBJTT 

fMTH Bf3f (^frqr fosftsrd ) srh: Rfarj?, spot spjfr, RTfur tt tw faPppr % 

TTTsrrfr firiw 3fuf t; ft t fffwr *fto> 1 1 

[fi° 3/23/68-^0 tfto] 
*RT o Rl o TJCfiT, 
SETT I 


New Delhi, the 3rd November 1969 

S-O. 4566. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section U) of section 3 
of the Charitable Endowments Act, 1890 (6 of 1890), and in supersession of the 
notification of the Government of India In the Ministry of Home Affairs, 
No. F. 16/6/ 04-Judl.II, dated the 19th January, 1905, the Central Government 
hereby appoints the Joint Secretary (Internal Finance) to the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Finance, ex-offlcio to be the Treasurer of Charitable 
Endowments for India with effect from the date he takes over. 

[No. F. 1/8/69-Judl.I.] 
B. SHUKLA, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 

S O. 4567. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of article 258 
<of the Constitution and in supersession of the Notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No. 1/S2/01-(IX)-F.I1I, dated the 15th 
March, 1962, the President, with the consent of the Government of Rajasthan, 
hereby entrusts also to the Inspector-General of Police, Rajasthan, the District 
Superintendents of Police, Rajasthan, the Superintendent of Police, CID, SB 
(Security), Jaipur, and the Additional Superintendents of Police, CID (IB), Zone, 
Ajmer, Udaipur and Kota under the Government of Rajasthan within their res- 
pective jurisdictions, the functions of the Central Government in making orders 
■of the nature specified in clauses (a), (b), (c) and (ec) of sub-section (2) of 
section 3 of the Foreigners Act, 1946 (31 of 1946) subject to the following con- 
ditions, namely: — 

(a) that the functions so entrusted shall be exercised In respect of nationals 
of Pakistan; 

<b) that in the exercise of such functions the said Inspector-General of 
Police, Superintendents of Police and Additional Superintendents of 
Police shall comply with such general or special directions as the 
Government of Rajasthan or the Central Government may from time 
to time Issue; and 

(O that notwithstanding this entrustment, the Central Government may 
Itself exercise any of the said functions should it deem fit to do so in 
any case. 


fNo- 1 /27/69-F- III- ] 
T. C. A. SRINIVASA VARADAN, Jt. Secy- 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 31 st October 1969 

S O 4568, — In pursuance of clause (a) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and 
Consular Officers (Oaths and Fees) Act 194B, the Central Government hereby 



Sec. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KART1KA 24, 1891 4951 

authorises Shri Wazir Singh, Steno-typist in the High Commission of India, 
TEantyre to perform the duties of a Consular Agent, with eilect from the 22nd 
October 1969, until further orders. 

[No. F.T. 4330/7/69.] 
P. C. BHATTACHARJEE, Under Secy. 



MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Banking) 

New Delhi, the 4 th Nor ember 1969 


S.O. 4569. — Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of I alia as on the 31st October, 1969. 


Banking Department 


LIABILITIES 


Ri 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Capita! Paid op 5,00,00*000 Notes 

Rupee Coin .... 

Reserve Fund ...... 150,00,00,000 Small Coin 

Bills Porcbaaed and Discounted : - 

National Agricultural Credit (Long Term 

Operation*' Food . ... I55»00^XWXX) (u) Internal 

(10 EitemaJ 

(0 Government Trewory Bills 


National Agricultural Credit (Stabihiatan) Fond 


35,00,00,000 B dance* Held Abroad* 
IavtstmerH* *• 


National Industrial Credit (Long Tenn Operations) 

Fund . 75,ocyx) 000 


Loan* and Ad ranee* tot— 


(i) Central G overnm ent 

(ii) State Governments (S 


43.64.62.000 
7^(3,000 
6,54,000 

i93.44,54rioc 

154.24.85.000 

124.24.52.000 

94,59 89,000 


4952 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [PARr II 



Loans and Advances to t — 


Deposits : — 

(a) Government 


(0 Central Government . . 

52,74,85,000 

re) State Governments .... 

6,14,244)00 

(ft) Banks 


(I) Scheduled Commercial Banka 
(40 Scheduled State Co-operative Banka 
(Id) Non- Scheduled State Co-operative Banks 
(to) Other Banka . • . „ 

186,01,08,000 

6,81,41,000 

64.40.000 

25.24.000 

(,') Others 

246,43,28,000 

Bills Payable ...... 

Other Liabilities ..... 

46,23,41,000 

48,69,73^00 

Rupees 

ioi 3 , 97 , 644 XX> 


Ci) Scheduled CnmmevdaJ Banksf . . . 33.53.75*000 

(!) State Co-operative Bankaft «... 262,49,57,000 

(Sf) Other* ....... 3Ah43J*x> 

Loam, Advance* and Imrestnvrati from National Agricul- 
tural Credit (Long Tam Operation*) Fond : — 

(a) Loam and Advance* to ; — 

CO State Go ve r nm ent* , 3t.53.79.ooo 

(B) State Co-operative Bank* .... 16,21,05,000 

(in) Central Land Mortgage Banks ... 


(ft) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Debentures 9,74,61,000 
Loan* and Advance* from National Agricultural Credit 


(StabiHaation) Fund:— 

Loam and Advance* to State Co-operative Bank* . 6,59,56,00 

Loam, Advances and Investment* from National Industrial 
Credit (Long Term Operation*) Fundi — 

(a) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank 6^26,74000 

(ft) Investment in bonda/deb entnre* issued by the 

Development Bank 

Other Asset* - 33,82,78,000 


Rupees . ■ 1013,97^.000 


to 


8 


•Indnda Cash, Fixed Deposits and Short-term Secnritiet. 

**E*duiing inv es tm ents from the National Agricultural Credit (Lon? Term Oper at ions': Fund and the National Industrial Credit CLoog Term 
Opera tio n*) Fond. 

@Exch»hng Loan* and Advance* from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund but including temporary overdrafts to 
S tate Governments. 

t Inclod » R*. 12,03,70^x10 advanced to s che dule d commercial banka against usance b 3 b under tection 17(4) (c) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
tfExcfctding Loan* and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fond and the National Agricultural Credit (Stabili- 
sation) Fund. 

Dated the 5th day of November, 1969. 


3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4953 


An Account parsnant to the Re«rve of India Act, 1934. for the week ended the 31st day of October, 1969 


Issue Department 


I, LABILITIES 

Rs. 

Rs. 

ASSETS 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Notes held in the-Banking Depart- 
ment 

Notes in circulation . 

43,64,62,000 

3458^,96/soo 


Gold Coin and BuHkm : — 

(a) Held in India. .... 

(i) Held outside India 

1 82 , 53 , 1 1 >°°° 


Total N«es issued . 


3501,87,58^00 

Foreign Securities .... 

Total 

261:424)0,000 

443,95A1’ oc?0 




Rupee Coin ..... 
Government of India Rupee Securities 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other 
Commercial r»P«r ... 


75 : 70 , 13:000 

2982^,34,000 

Total Liab’Fties 


3501,87,58,000 

Total Assets .... 


3501,87,58,000 


L- K- Jha, 

Dated the 5F1 day of November, 1969. Governor- 


[No- F. 3(3). BC/69.] } 

K. YESDRATNAM, Under Secy. ] 


4954 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15. 1969/KARTIKA 24. 1891 [Pabt II— 



SBC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4955 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 


Income-tax 


New Delhi, the 1st September 1969 


SO 4510.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
122 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it 
in that behalf, the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the following 
amendment in the Schedule appended to Its Notification No. 98 (F. No. 50/9/88- 
ITJ) dated 8th October, 1068, namely: 


In the said schedule Bhavnagar Range, Bhavnagar, existing under column I, 
■shall be deleted and the following circles shown against Bhavnagar Range, Bhav- 
nagar, under column 2 thereof, shall be added against Rajkot Range, Rajkot, under 
column 2( of the said Schedule; 


4. Bhavnagar Circle. 

6. Amrell Circle. 

6. Junagadh Circle. 

7. Porbandar Circle. 

This notification takes effect from 5th September, 1969. 


Explanatory Note 

The amendment has become necessary on account of transfer Of one post of 
AAC from Gujarat Commissioner’s charge to Bombay (Central) Charge. 

(The above note does not form part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clariflcatory) . 

[No. 119 (F. No. 60/40/69-ITJ.)] 


New Delhi , the 2nd September 1969 

S.O. 4511. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
122 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it 
in that behalf and in supersession of all previous notifications m this regard, the 
Central Board of "Direct Taxes hereby directs that the Appellate Assistant Com- 
missioner of Income-tax specified in Column I of the Schedule below shall perform 
their functions in respect of all persons arid incomes assessed to Income-tax or 
supertax in the Income-tax circles, wards and districts specified in the correspond- 
ing entry in column 2 thereof: — 


Schedule 


Range Income-tax Circles, Wards & Districts. 



Central Range-I, Bombay All cases Under the jurisdiction of Income-tax Officers, Sections 

I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, IX, X, XVIII, XIX, and XX 
(Central) Bombay. 

Central Range-II, Bombay All cases under the jurisdiction of Income-tax Officers, Sections 

VIII, XI, XII, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI, XVII, XXI, XXII, XXIII, 1 
(Central) Bombay & Central Circle, Ahmedabad. 

Central Range, Nagpur. . All cases under the jurisdiction of Ircomc-lex Officers, Centra' 

Circles I, II, III, IV, and V, Nagpur. 


Where an Income-tax Circle, Ward or District or part thereof stands trans- 
ferred by this notification from one Range to another Range, appeals arising out 
of assessments made in that Income-tax Circle, Ward or District or part thereof 
and pending immediately before the date of this notification before the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income-tax circle, Ward or 
District or part thereof Is transferred shall, from the date this notification takes 
effect, he transferred to and dealt with by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner 
of the Range to whom the said circle, Ward or District Or part thereof is trans- 
ferred. 

This notification shall take effect from the 5th September, 1909. 

[No. 117 (F. No. 5O/39/09-ITJ.)] 


This notification shalOake effect from 12 th September, TS09. 



4956 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


New Delhi, the 6th September 1909 

S.O. 4572. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 122 
of the Income-tax Act, 1981 (43 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it In 
that behalf, the Central Board of Direct Taxes, hereby mates the following 
amendments in the Schedule appended to its Notification No 97 (F. No. 50/12/08- 
ITJ) dated the 7th October, 1988, as amended from time to time. 

In the said Schedule the entries in col. (2) against A-Ra-nge, B-Range, C-Range r 
D-Range, E-Range, F-Range, H-Range J-Range, K-Range, L- Range, M-Range, 
N-Range, P-Range, and Q-Range, New Delhi shall be substituted by the 
following: — 


Ranges Income-tax Circles, V aids and Districts- 



A-Range, New Delhi 
B-Range, New Delhi. 

C-Kangc,Ncw Delhi, 
D-Range, New Delhi 

E-Range, New Delhi. 

F-Range, New Delhi. 
H — Ran ge, New Delhi 


1. Companies Circles III, VII, X, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI, XIX, fit 
XX, New Delhi. 

2. Special Circles III, IV, V, ’X & X,NewDeIhi. 


1. District III, Ward A, A (Addl.), A (Addl. I), O, O (Addl.), New 
Delhi. 

2. District III, (19), (2°), (21), (22) fit (23), New Delhi. 

3. District VII Ward A, A (I) & (B), New Delhi. 

4. District VII (1), (2), (3) fit (4), New Delhi- 
J. Refund Circle, New Delhi. 

6. B-I, B-I (I), Districts, New Delhi. 

7. C-I, C-I (I), C-II and C-III Districts, New Delhi. 

1. Central Circles I, II, III, VI, VII and XI, New Delhi. 

2. Special Circles and Addl. Special Circles, New Delhi. 

3. SpccialJInvestigatlon Circles' A, B and C, New Delhi. 

1. District VIII Wards, C, D, E, E(Addl.), F., F(Addl-), A (ill), 
A (IV) fit D (I), New Delhi. 

2. A-1V fit IV(I) Districts, New Delhi. 

3. Income-tax-cum- Wealth Circles IV fit XI, New Delhi. 

4. DistrictVIWardsA(I),A(II),C(I), C(I)(Addl.), New Delhi. 

5. District X(D, (2), (3), (4), (5), («), (7), (8), (9), (10), & (1*), 
New Delhi. 

6. District VI ( 1 1), ( 12), (13 ), ( 14) and ( : 5), Nt w Delhi. 


r. District VIII Wards A, A(Addl.), B, B (Addl. ), B (Addl.I), 
B(Addl. II), B (Addl. Ill), A(I)&A(II), New Delhi- 

2. A-I, A-I (I), A-II, A-II1 fit Addl. A-1II, Districts, New Delhi. 

3. Income-tax-eum- Wcftlth-tax Circles, VIII, NcwDelhi. 


4. District III 


,Ncw Delhi. 


3. District IIIl(33),New Delhi. 

6. District VII I( 1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7). (8), (9), (ic). (ir), O2)- 
(i3),(i4),(i5) } (i < 5),(r7),(i8)and(i9),NcwDelhi.' 


, 1. Companies Circles I, IX, XXI fit XXII, New Delhi. 

2. Special Circles, I, H, VI, VII, fit VIII, New D - 


1. B-XVII, XVIl(i), B-XVII (z), B-XVII(3), B- XV 1 1 (4) Distrcu, 
New Delhi. 

2. District VI-A, A(Addl.), ,F (A tdl.). C. C(/ cdl.) r & F. ; Ntw 
Delhi. 

3. District VI(i), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), ' (8), (9) & («>), New 

Delhi. 

4. DistrictI, Ward A fit A (I), New Delhi. 

5. District IX, Ward A, New Delhi. 

6. District I (1) fit (2), New Delhi. 

7. District IX (1), New Delhi. 

8. District IV, Wards C &D, New Delhi. 

9. District IV (4), (5) & (6), New Delhi. 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4957 


I 2 


J — Range, New Delhi. , 1. District II, Wards A, B, C,D, E, F, A(I), G(I), C(I) (Addl. - ) & 

C(II), New Delhi. ' 

2. B-XIV, B-XIV(I) & B-Xrv(II), Districts, New Delhi. 

3. District II(I), (2), ( 3 ), (4), ( 5 ), (6), ( 7 ), (8), (9), (i°), (n) & (I 
New Delhi. 

K — Range, New Delhi , 1. DistrictV, Wards A, A (Addl.), B, B (Addl.), C,]D, E, F&G, 

New Delhi. 

2. District V.(i), (2), ( 3 ), ( 4 ), ( 5 ), (6), (7), (8), ( 9 ),(i°),(n), (12), 
(13), (14) & (I 5 )j New Delhi. 

3 . B-XV,B-XV(I),B-XV(2),XVI,B-XVI(I), F > \ I(2) B-XVIII, 
V-XVIII(I) and Addl. B-XVIII Districts, New Delhi. 

4. Inco«ne-tax-curn- Wealth-tax Circle III, New Delhi. 

5. District IV Wards A & B, New Delhi. 

6. District IV (1), (2), (3), New Delhi. 

L — Range, New Delhi. . 1. District III, Ward A(I), C(I), E(I), G(I), 1 ( 1 ), and K(I), New 

Delhi. 

2. District IV Wards A(I), B(I),C(I), C (II), New Delhi. 

3. Special Assessment Circles, I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX 

&X New Delhi. * 

A. Special Survey Circle 1 , II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, & New 
Delhi. 

5 - District III (24), (25), (26), (27), (28), (29), (30), (31) & ( 32 ), 
New Delhi. 

6. District IV (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), New Delhi. 


M — Range, New Delhi. , 1. Companies Circles, V, VI, XI, XII, New Delhi. 

N — Range, New Delhi. , 1. District V, Wards A(I), B(I), C(I), F(l), F(I) (AcU’l.), F( 1 I) & 

F(III), New Delhi. 

2. District V(i6), (17), (18), (19), & (20), Ntw Delhi. 

3 - B-XII, B-XII(I), B-XII 1 , D-XIII(I), Districts New Delhi. 

4. Income-tax-cum-Wcalth tax Circles IX & X, New Delhi. 

P — Range, New Delhi. . 1. Central Circles IV, V, VIII, IX, X, XII, XIII & XIV, New 

Delhi. 


Q — Range, New Delhi. . 1. Companies Circles II, IV, VHi, XVII, XVIII, New Delhi. 


Explanatory Note 

The amendments have become necessary on account of reorganization of the 
jurisdiction of the I.T.Os. and in order to reallocate the work amongst the various 
AA.Cs. 

(The above note does not form part of the Notification but is Intended to be 
merely clarificatory) . 

[No. 120/F. No. 50/43/09-ITJ.] 
New Delhi, the 10 th September 1969 

S.O. 4573. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
122 of the Income-tax Act 1901 (43 of 1961) and all other powers enabling it in 
that behalf the Central Board of Direct Taxes, hereby makes the following amend- 
ments in the Schedue appended to its Notification No. 57 (F. No. 50/38/69-ITJ), 
dated the 27th May, 1989, namely: 

In the said Schedule against D-Range and S-Range Bombay under column 2 
the following shall be substituted: 

D-Range, Bombay Evacuee Circle II and Company Circle IV(I) to IV(13). 

S-Range, Bombay Market Ward, X-Ward, Com. Clr. IV(14) to IV(16), 

Com. Clr. 111(13) to 111(15) and Com. Cir. V. 

This notification shall take effect from 12 th September, 1909. 



4958 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Pari IT— 


Explanatory Note 

The amendments have become necessary on account of abolition of Company- 
Circles IV(14), IV(16) and IV(16). 

(This does not form part of the notification, but is intended to be merely 
clariflcatory.) 

[No. 121 (F. No. 50/38/69-ITJ.J 
Y. SINGH, Under Secy. 

mwi 

df ft?#, 1 1969 

t^o#o 4574 .-*rnr i 96 i ( 1 as 1 tt 43) # srm 122 # gg- 

ETRT ( 1 ) 5TU TTcT ### ^ET ftf#T g% EUTO WT% TT# «TW El# #W# *FT 
Jftft TZd %<\ TTjfft TUFT TR tr^KT SR# gfk^WT EftqT 9ft (TU ET° 5 o/ 
9/68-wf o/<fto#o) grCftr 8 - 1 o- 1 96 ft % Eim ggw g fgwfgftrd et#w 
*FW! t, Wft : — 

gw if EETW 1 % #% ftTHTW TUFFR ^T, WTIWTT ftgT gn^TT #T 

etiwr: tg, gmog % gnw gti% Erm 2 % #% tTvet fgwfgftrg Etfwr gw 
% uuvr 2 $ ## Tr^-Eft tg, rrgWg % gigg gft fttr gnrg : 

4 grwH et%et i 

5 wt# gfer i 

6 'T’TTT^ Erf%ET I 

7 T'rftwr #WT I 

^^rfsr^WT 5fwWT. 1969 Jr STfET gTT#V I 

[EWET 119 (Wogo 50/40/69 — wt^oW 0 )} 

ft?#, 2 fad«K, 1969 

t^o #o 4575.—' TUT TR trftrfWR, 1961 ( 1961 W 43) # HTET 122 # 

gwra ( i ) im srw gfwgf #r tee ftf#r g% et*# ww tt# wg et# gfwgf tt 

TTTT T# Jtr g-qr W fWT # ET# ^ gftj^ggpgf # ErftPPTW wt g?gw 

*r gti i^cP^nr ffftsr ^rr ^ % #% # wd^# iw 1 Jr ftfgft^a: %• 

ETfJPRF W^W (iTf#) gg ET# wftwf % #T 3ET irrg % ER«J 4 «Fft fWf TT TTEPT 
# gw wjg # % erw 2 # wp^fr gftfe g ftftrftg mwr Ert%#, tt# gr f#ft 
Jr tor gr gfggR % ftrt[ f#rffw t i 





WWT, ElfWT, Wi 5 fft ft# 


%#g^g-i, 

. gwg — i, 2, 3, 4, 5, e, 7, 9, 

io r 


18 , 19 , #E 20, ^ 

% 


wwe sdwft# # gfsrmfwT 

% 


trtfft % g# gm% i 






Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 495J 




RlTBT, RI£ STB 


%gftB^g-2, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 2 1> 

22, 23, *lk %gflg gfwr 

W^KRK % srTBBfT jrftFirrfVrrf aft 
srfsjBTfwT % Rtftg % g*ft re# r i 
^g, bibbt; . . ?rfsfr?T 1, 2, 3, 4, *fk 5 bib^t 

% gnm gfaBTfTRf gft srlwfwT 

SEffa % ?nft RPlJn 


ggf ^g gfar^wr am gtf rib BT gfwr, btJ bt fggr bt gw qitf rib c^b 

Jt ^g Bit ^ r d fVcl g) BBT sf) RgT gg SUB BT tlfr^l, Bpf BT fg% BT gB% fwf)" BIB 
if BTJ % fBW Tft Bf B^STftB, t 

?g It g<jTBB bpjw (Rafter) % ggg gftw gf, fgg% *rg btb bt gfwr, bet bt fggr bt 
wr btb sFcrfcr bt Ibbt hbt |, b> *g gfggggr % gfg gft q?r grater % gg 
%, fggBl gw gfBg, rtS bt fggr bt bbw Btf bib srgfrg BT fgBT bbt 

gglRBSTEJW (stFVb) Bt Bcffw B X <ft 5Tl^fV R'fT gg% BBB B '!■ 1 4 ■Miff) 3W g^TBB gT^W 

(trftg) am ff Bft gro^fr i 

Rg Bftr^wr 5 fWWT, 196 9 B Bjft I 

[BBBT 117 (gopn 50/39/69- BT^o ^o)] 

B$ ftgft, 6 fBWT, 1969 

4576. — STTRBT BfkfBBB, 1961 ( 1 9 G 1 BT 43) B1TT 122 
bbbitt ( i ) arm bbb gfwBT sfa ?b fafgg gJr bb4 rri% RTfft wb gtfV gfwgf bt 

HBtB BTcT fir WcYb B-BB BT sfti t^ITTT BBB-BBB BT BBT BBlfecf spgft gflFJWT 
BBBT 97 (BT° RTBT 5 0/ 1 2/6 8-BI^ €t° ^°) Bl^tw 7 SRTBT, 1968 % BTB BBBf 

Jr fwfgfag s'gttrg btbt |, wbIb :- 

gw BB^gr % B-tg, sMfg, b-tb, g-rgs-Tg, g-Tg g-lg r-tb a-lg, z- 
^g, B-Tg, a-Tg, b-tb gig B-^g, gf fa?vft % bibb wr ( 2 ) bW^bt % tbib 
bt Prwfgfgg BigiBifw bF gigift :- 


^g 

sriBBT, Trt%g, Bii sftr fg% 

1 

2 

^fg, 

1 BTPEft gfwr 3, 7, 1 0, 1 3, 1 4, 1 5, 1 6, 

R^fo-rfr l 

19 , sfk 20 , gf f^ft 1 









4960 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Fart II— 


1 


2 


2 qfe 3 , 4 , 5 , 9 10 , 

■r^ r^i i 

qr—%, fit fo# . i fen 3 , mi % v (wf?roi), zp (srfq° 

l), % n (nfq°), ?r$ feft i 

2 fen 3 ( 19), (20), (21), (22) 

tflr (23), q$ fefr 1 

3 fen 7 qri <p, sp ( 1) ?At q$ 
ffefr 1 

4 fen 7 (1), (2), (3), ifft (4) 
qf ffeft 1 

5 srfqqPT Ilfel, q$ ffeft I 

6 isr-i, n-i( 1 ),, fe q£fefti 

7 n-i, q-i(i) *r—2 sfrt jt -3 fer, 
qf feflr 1 

*r-%,q$ffeY . . . 1 qfer 1, 2, 3, e, 7, tfk 1 1, q$ 

fe?fr 1 

2 fen* qfer sfk nfqffer fern 

M 1 

3 fen* w^i nfer v, w tftr q, 
qf Pw'Tl I 

ffet , . .1 fen 8 qry-q, n, t , (nfq<>) n, 

q (nfno),«p ( 3), wr( 4) (1), 

qf ffeft 1 

2 qr-4 sfhc 4( 1 ) fer, q$ ffeft 1 

3 *nq qrq nq qrc rrfer 4 nV* 1 1, 
qf ffefr 1 

4 fen e qr^ qr ( 1*), ^(2), q(i), 
q ( 1) nfq°), qf ffefr 1 

5 fen 10(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), 
(e), (7) , ( 8 ), ( 9 ‘), (10) tfk 

(11), q$ ffefr I 

6 fen 6 (ll), ( 12 ), ( 13 ), ( 14 ), 
tfk (is), q$ fen 1 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4961 


2 


sf? . . . 1 f^r^rr (*rfro) <s, (wftro), 

^ (wfro-i), ® (srfao 2), w 
(srfa° 3), *p(i) *p (2), frt 
fW?ft 1 


2 *P-1, *T-1 (l), T-2, IT- 3 tf\X 

qr- 3 , frr?r, nf 1 

3 8 ,Trtfa^fr 1 

4 fan 3 <rri s ( 1), fftfosflr 1 

5 fan 3 TTt (33), Tif fetfi 1 
6 fan 8 (1), (2), (3), (4), (S'), 
(6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (ll), 
(12), ( 13 ), (14), (15), (16), 
( 17'), (I8),lfk (19), fit I. 

Ttfesfr . . .1 jfTPFft ^rftrer, 1 , 9 , 21 ’sfk 22 , Tt 

fcrjft 1 

2 faflT 1, 2, 6 , 7, !fk 8, T$ 

fo*fr 1 

sr-H 'rf ftssfr , . ,1 g--i7, 17 ( 1 ), w -17 ( 2 ), ^r - 1 7 

(3), <51-17(4) fan fit fofalr 1 

2 fa% 6 -t, *p(?rftro), ?sr, n (itrfg-o ) 
v, *1 ( 5 rftro),T 5 /k 3 ; , Tiffed 1 

3 fan 6(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), 

(e), (7), ( 8 ), (9) ( 10), 

fft font 1 

4 fan 1, «rri * p tp ( i),Tifffo 3 ft 1 

5 fan 9, Tit— tp, Tft font 1 

6 fan 1(1) 4 iTt ( 2) , Tft font 1 

7 fan 9(1), ?rt ffont 1 

8 fan 4, srri t *fk t, tC fossft 1 

9 fan 4 (4), ( 5) *rk ( 6 ), Ttfart 1 


H—j fa, Ttfont . . . 1 fror 2, nt v, w, *r, *r, v, % «p( 1), 

»r ( 1), *r( 1) (<rfro) tffc *1(2), 

srtfWt 1 



496a THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Paxt B— 


1 


2 


2 ^- 14 , ^- 14 ( 1 ) ^-14(2),. 

fSTT, Hi fe# I 

3 faW 2, () ( 2),T ( 3 ), (4), (s)„ 
(6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (11),. 

sfk ( 12), Hifa<H?ft 1 

5-J^5T, Hi . . .1 fHHT 5, HTTH.H ^,’BT (wfa°)3 

H ,H, Mo, H sf|X B5, ni fawfr I 

2 f^rnr 5, (i), ( 2 ), ( 3 ), ( 4 ), ( 5 ), 
(6). (7), (8), (9'j, ( lt>), (11),. 
(12), (13), (14) tfk (15), 

ni 1 

3^-15, HT-15(l), ^r-15(2), 16», 

1 6 ( 1 ) or— 1 6 ( 2 ), ST-8, 

or— 1 8 ( 1 ) sfft (srfao) sr-i8,‘ 

fan ni 1 

4 3, Hi foi-fl I 

5 fanT 4— mi h *fhnsr, ni fsrovft 1 
6f5r?rr 4 ( 1 ), ( 2 ), (3),nifH?€r i 

3-j^r, Hi . . . 1 fw 3, hwh(i), h(i)s°(i), w. 

(l),ST ( 1) *fk H(l), Hi.ftwft » 

2 fW 4, HTH ( 1 ), ^( 1 ) h( 1 ),, 

H ( 2 ), Hi feft I 

3 faffH fHHk^r Hf%H 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 

6, 7, 8, 9, 10, Hi \ 

4 f*m HfefTH Hlw 1, 2, 3, 4,5, 6,. 

7, 8, 9, Hi | 

5 fHHT 3 (24), (25), (26), (27),, 
(28), (29), (30), (31), (32),. 

ni feft i 

6 f HHT 4(7), (8), (9), (10), (ll), 

ni fnwft 1 

J — =^3T, Hi . . .1 Hf%H 5, 6, 11, 12, 

f^fr 1 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4963 , 



T— 1 H Tf fefr . . .1 fmm 5 mi Efl(l), ST ( 1 ), *T (l), 

t ( J )> 1) ^(2) 

T(3), fcWt I 

2 fmm 5 ( 16), ( 17), ( 18), ( 19> 

( 20 ), Tf fr??fT I 

3 *3--12( l), TeT- 13, ^-13( l),- 
f-sfT, Ti fcssff 1 

4 5TR mT T? TfT SRT 9 10,. 

fmsfr I 

cT~ : H TS fm?Tt . . .1 Rf%?T 4, 3, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13,. 

sflT 14, I 

*T — H . - .1 Tf%gr 2, 4, 8, 17, 18, T? 

fern 1 

JT? lOftRftmi:, 1609 % Sr a JrT j^Wf I 

[rwt 120 (tt° wt 50 / 43 / 6 9-5fTsf° ifo i°)] 

Ti fmrff, loffraFsiT, 1909 

qW'O Stf° 43? 7. — WH SlfafamT, 1961 ( 1961 <FT 43) iff £TTO 122 iff 

TTOTTT (l) 3: ITT TfrT trrfTTRT 5Th: ?TT frfw TT T-TR m'-ff WQ TT'*fl Rfrmff IT 

5 7 (iTTo 5 0 / 

38/69-mio ^Vo io) TT^T27Ri, 1 9 6 9 ^ OT mRT if fTRftfffmV, 

vftSPT TT7TT : — 

Tmr Spjg^f if FF 4 2 % if% if 0 ^T *T>T ITtfo ^ Jjspf $ TTDTT fmT%f3Er 
jrfrrcmfmr fvm ttirt : 

if-^T, ^ . . . fTCTpRT 2 srfr HRif Trf%T 4 ( 1) 

if 4 ( 13) TPF I 

^tt-^t, ^ . . . ttttt mf, qw mi, mf'rm mi 4 ( 14) 

% 4 ( 1 6 ) mp, mf'pnr mi 3 ( 1 3) fr 
3 (15) mp sftr mf^ mi s 1 

^ srftrg^m 1 2 fM«i <, 1 969 % ft moif 1 

[TTOT 121 ('FT^TTfW 50/38/695TTi° iffo 3f°)] 

mi f%r^, ?rfaT 1 





4964 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part B- 


Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 31st October 1969 

S.O. 4578. — In. exercise of the powers conferred by Section 123 of the Income- 
tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the 
following amendments to the Schedule annexed to its Notification No. 1 (F. 
No. 66/233/ 63-IT) dated the 18th May, 1964: 

I. In the said Schedule Serial No. 42(F) (i) should be renumbered as 42(F) and 
the existing entry in Column 2 shall be substituted by the following entry: — 

All gazetted and Non-gazetted employees of the Central Government belong- 
ing to Departments other than Income-tax, Customs and Central 
Excise, who are posted In West Bengal and are under the Audit Con- 
trol of A.G., Central, West Bengal, whose annual salary or pensions 
during the previous year exceeded the maximum amount not charge- 
able to income tax under the law for the time being In force or being 
less than that amount has for some reason been subjected to deduc- 
tion of tax at source. 

II. In the said Schedule Serial Nos. 42(F) (ii). (iii) and (iv) and the entries 
ithereagainst shall be deleted. 

III. In the said Schedule after item ‘G’, the following item shall be added: 


CD ( 2 ) 


(3) (4) (5) (6) 


H.(i) All Gazetted and Non- Income-tax Inspecting Appellate Commissioner 
gazetted employees of Officer, ‘D’ Assistant Com- Assistant Com- of Income- 
theCcntralGovt.be- Ward, Central misslonerof missioner of tax. West 
longing t 0 Income-tax, Salaries Circle, Income-tax Income-tax Bcngal-I, 
Customs and Central Calcutta. who has been who has been Cacutta. 


Excise Departments, 
who arc posted in West 
Bengal and arc under 
the Audit Control of 
A.G. Central, West 
Bengal, whose annual 
salary or pensions dur- 
ing the previous year 
exceeded the maximum 
amount not chargeable 
to incometax under the 
law for the time being in 
force or being less than 
that amount has for 
some reason been sub- 
jected to deduction of 
tax at source. 

iii) All Gazetted Officers of Do. 
the Education Deptt. 
of the Govt, of West 

Bengal. 

(hi) All Gazetted and Non- Do. 

gazetted employees of 
the Govt, of West 
Bengal receiving their 
pay and allowances 
from the DistrictTrca- 
suries or Sub-Treasu- 
ries of 24-Parganas, 
Howrahand Jalpatgur’' . 


appointed to invested with 
perform the powers to hear 

functions of appeals against 

an Inspecting the decision of 
Asstt. Com- the Income-tax 
missioner of Officer referred 
Income tax in to in Column 3- 
respect of Cen- 
tral Salaries 
Circle, Calcutta. 


Do. Do, Do. 


Do. Do. Do. 



Sec. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4965 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 


(iv) All Gov:. p:flsion?rsun- Income-tax 
der cheauditco.it col of Officer, ‘D’ 
the A G., West Bengal Ward Central 
whcne surnames bigin Salaries Circle, 
with any of the alpha- Calcutta. 
be<icel letters A to L 
(both inclusive)— whose 
annual salary or pen- 
sions during the pre- 
vious year exceeded the 
maximum amount not 
chargeable to income- 
tax undcrithe law for 
the time being in force 
or being less than that 
amount has for some 
reason been subjected 
to deduction of tax at 
source. 


Inspecting Appellate Commissioner 

Assistant Assistant of Income- 

Commissioner Commissioner tax West 

of Income- of Income- Bengal-I, 

tax who has tax who has Calcutta. 

been appointed been invested 

to perform the with powers 

functions of an to hear appeals 

Inspecting against the 

Asstt. Com- decision of the 

mjssioner of Income-tax 

Income-tax in Officer referred 

respect of to in Column 3. 

Central Salaries 
Circle, Calcutta. 


[No. 3 (No. F. 55/383/69-IT (AI).] 
L. N. GUPTA, Under Secy, 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH. FAMILY PLANNING, WORKS, HOUSING AND 

URBAN DEVELOPMENT 

(Department of Health) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 

S.O. 4579. — Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Health No. 10-19/63-MI(MPT), dated the 4th June, 1964, the Central 
Government has directed that the Medical qualification, ‘M.D.’ granted by the 
Stanford University, California, U.S.A. shall be recognised medical qualification 
for the purposes of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1950); 

And whereas Dr. John Robert Berry who possesses the said qualification is for 
the time being attached to the American Peace Corps, Bombay Regional Office, 
Bombay for the purposes of charitable work. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of clause (c) of the proviso to sub-section (1> 
of section 14 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby specifies — 

(i) a period for two years from the date of issue of this order, or 

(ii) the period during which Dr. John Robert Berry is attached to the said. 

American Peace Corps, Bombay Regional Office, Bombay. 

whichever is shorter, as the period to which the medical practice by tlje aforesaid 
doctor shall be limited. 


[No. F. 19-38/69-MPT.J 
R. MURTHI, Under Secy- 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 1st November 1969 

S.O. 4580. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinemato- 
graph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule of rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government after consulta- 
tion with Central Board of Film Censors hereby appoints Smt. Kamala Tilak as a 





4966 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1 969/KARtTKA 24, 1891 [Part U- 


member of the Advisory Panel of Central Board of Film Censors, Bombay with 
immediate effect upto 31st December, 1969. 

[No. ll/12/09-F(C).] 
K. K. KHAN Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOREIGN TRADE AND SUPPLY 

(Office of the Joint Chief Controller of Imports & Exports) 

(Central Licensing: Area) 

ORDER 

New Delhi , the 2nd July 1969 

S.O. 4581. — M/s. Thio-Pharma, 26-c, Industrial Estate, Faina Rajasthan were 
granted licence No. P/SS/1 &10703/C/XX/25/CD / 25/26 dated 30th March 1968 
for Rs. 21,701 for the import of Drugs and Medicines as per list attached with 
the said licence. They have applied for issue of duplicate copy of the said licence 
for both customs as well as exchange control purposes on the ground that both 
the copies of the said licence have been lost/misplaced. 

2. The applicant has filed an affidavit in support of their contention as requir- 
ed under para 302 read with appendix 8 of I.T.C. Hand Book of Rules and 
Procedure, 1969. I am satisfied that the original custom as well as exchange 
control copies of the said licence have been lost/misplaced. 

3. In exercise of the powers conferred on me, under section 9(CC), Import 
(Control) Order, 1955 dated 7th December, 1955, as amended I order the cancella- 
tion of original custom as well as exchange control copies of licence No. P/SS/ 
16110703/C/XX/25/CD/25/26, dated 36th March, 1968. 

4. The applicant is now being issued duplicate copies of both customs as well 
as exchange control of the said licence in accordance with the provision of para 
302 of I.tTC. Hand Book of Rules and Procedure, 1969. 

[No. F. T-5/Raj/AM.68/AU.HRH/CLA.] 

RAM MURTI SHARMA, 

Joint Chief Controller of Imports St Exports. 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th October 1969 

S.O. 4582. — M/s. India Capaciters Pvt. Ltd., Calcutta-19 were granted licence 
No. 2162424 dated the 22nd March, 1968 for import of Insulated Tissu Paper & 
Chlorinated Diphenyl valued art Rs. 2,00 000. They have requested for the issue 
of duplicate Exchange Control Copy of the licence on the ground that the original 
Exchange Control Copy of the licence has been lost by them. It has been further 
reported by the licensee that the licence was lost after utilising Rs. 1,22,000. The 
licence has been registered with Collector of Customs, Calcutta. 

2. In support of their contention the applicant have filed an affidavit. The 
undersigned is satisfied that the original Exchange Control Copy of the licence 
No. P/RM/2162424/R/IA/26/C/H/25-26 dated the 22nd March, 1968 has been 
lost and directs that a duplicate Exchange Control Copy of the said licence 
should be issued to them. The original Exchange Control Copy of the licence 
Is cancelled. 


[No. SWG.1&/67-68/R.M.0.] 
G, S. SHARMA, 

Dy, Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 




'Sec. 3(U)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4967 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 31st October 1969 

S.O. 4583. — Chief Engineer Maharashtra State Electricity Board, Bombay 
were granted licence No. G/AU/1034058/S/UK/26/CH/26 dated the 22nd Decem- 
ber, 190V for Rs. 2,65,75,560 for import of Boilers & accessories from U.Jt. The 
same has been lost/misplaced and he has requested to issue duplicate copy of 
the licence (both customs and exchange). It has been reported that the licence 
was lost after utilisation of amount to the extent of Rs. 94,94,518 and the licence 
was registered with Calcutta Customs, 

In support of the contention the applicant has filed an affidavit. The Under- 
signed is satisfied that the original licence No. G/AU/1034068/S/UK/26/CH/28 
dated the 22nd December, 1967 (both copies) has been lost/misplaced and directs 
that duplicate of the said licence should be issued to him. The original licence 
has been cancelled and the duplicate copy thereof is being issued separately. 

[No. SG/263/6T.68/PLS/B.J 
H. R. MOHSINI, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, 
for Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 


B9INISTRP OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT, INTERNAL TRADE AND 

COMPANY AFFAIRS 

(Department of Industrial Development) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 31 st October 1969 

S.O. 45R47IDRA/C/5. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the 
Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951) read with 

Rules 2, 4 and 5 of the Development Councils (Procedural) Rules, 1952 and in 
continuation of the order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Indus- 
trial Development, Internal Trade and Company Affairjs (Department of Indus- 
trial Development) No. S.O. 3769/IDRA/6/6 dated the 20th August, 1969, the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri Narendre Nath Sen, President, Mathe- 
matical Instruments Office Employees Union, Raja Subodh Mullick Road, 
Calcutta-32 to be a member of the Development Council for Instruments Industry. 

[No. LEI(A)-3(5)/66.] 
D. R. SUNDARAM, Jt. Secy. 


torn, SHORT cUTT RWtT-fiU} RTTpTH 

fit fSesft, 31 mffTT, 1969 

sfto 4585/wrfo ¥>0 w,to tio/e/s. — ^ar>r(f5RT3- r*tt srfirfrm, 

1951 ( 1951 TT 65)# STITT 6 % STTf TfifT uf#tr HTT 5TH>1 ITTrf ^7, fa+TR qfUT? 
(wi far ) faw, 1952% ffiRR, 2, 4 5 % rtr t# jit R«rr rttr rtitr % *rV«fTfar 

fr-rur, tnurffar shirk a*rr RWR-iuf rruth (sfhftfw faum faRpr) % wtw #0 

wTo37 70/?rrft> tTo 6/ 5 2o*iw, i969#5nrV 1 # 





4968 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Pakt II— 

IRTT? sft HT«T *T^DT, J?*pffcFIT TETPET spiRKT Rtf, 

TRT ^tST R^PF TtT, WfiTTT 3 2 , WEl f^FDT 3 T B 7 PT Or^fcT *FT?ft $ I 

[# *&<> f° *nto (tr)- 3 ( 5 )/ 66 ] 
ytomro 
inw i 

4 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

Indian Standards Institution, 

New Delhi, the 2 9 th October 1969 

S.CMs&S In pursuance of sub-regulation (i) of Regulation 5 of the Indian Standards Institu- 

tion (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies 
that the Indian Standards, particulars of which are mentioned in the Schedule given hereafter, 
have been cancelled. 


The Schedule 


Si. 

No. 

No. and Title of the Indian Standard 
Cancelled 

No. and Date of Gazette Notification in 
which Establishment of the Indian Stan- 
dards was Notified 

I 

2 

3 


1 IS: 668-1963 Specification for serge, ordinary 

(revised) 

2 IS: 669-1963 Specification for serge, drat 

mixture ( revised ) 

3 18:670-1963 Specification for serge, worsted , 

dyed (superior) ( revised) 


4 IS: 671-1963 Specification for serge, battle 

dress (drab mixture) ( revised) 

5 IS: 672-1963 Specification for serge, white, 

lining (revised) 


6 IS 1532-1960 Specification for serge, blue, 

worsted 

7 IS: 1533-1960 Specification for serge, drab 

mixture, water resistant 

8 IS: 1614-1960 Specification for oil of vctlver 

roots (cultivated) 


5. 0 . 280 dated 13 January 1964 published in 
the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, 
Sub-section (il) dated 25 January 1964, 

Do. 

5.0. 415 dated 22 January 1964 published 
in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 
3, Sub-section (ii) dated x February 
1964. 

Do. 


Do. 


S.O. 1632 dated 16 June i960 published 
in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 
3, Sub-section (il) dated 2 July i960. 

Do. 


S.O. 3059 dated 16 December i960 pub- 
lished in the Gazette of India, Pan II, 
Section 3, Sub-section (ii) dated 24 
December i960 


[No.CMD/13 : 7] 




Nea Dei hi, the ytth October , 1969 

S.CM587. — In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that amendment (s) to the Indian Standard ( s ) giveniathe schedule hereto annexed have been issued under the powers co nferred 
bv sub -regulation (1) of Regulation 3 of the eaM Regulations. 

The Schedule 


No. and title of the Indian Standard 
amended 


No. and date of Gazette Noti- No. and date of 
ficafion in which the establish- the maendment 
ment of the Indian Standard 
was notified 


Brief particulars of the 
amendment 


Date from 

which the am- 
endment shall 
have effect 


IS: 302-1967 General and safety require- S.O. 1720 dated 18 May 1968 No. 1 October 
ments for light electrical appliances 1969 

(third revision) 


(i) Clause 34- 1 and clause 

reference under the desig- 
nation of Appendix. D have 
been amended. 

(ii) Clause 34-1.2 has been 
deleted a nd clause 34.1.3 
re-numbered as 34.1.2. 


I October 1969 


IS: 632-1 966 Specification forBHCemul- S.O. 469 dated 11 February 1967 No. 2 October Clause 3.1 has been substituted 27 October 1969 
sifiable concentrates (second revision) 1060 by a new one. 


sifiable concentrates (second revision) 

IS: 842-1968 Specification for Smith’s S.O. 2578 dated 20 July 1968 
swages (first revision) 


No. 1 October 
1969 


by a new one. 

Table 2 & 3 have been amended 


IS: 1200-1964 Method of measurement S.O. 2673 dated 28 August 1965 No. 5 September 
of building works (recited) 1969 


(i) [Page 2 (page 3 of the 
Reprint), cabJerits, SI. No. 
3, 17 and 2o]-DeIete these 
serial numbers. 

(ii) [Pages 6 to 12 (pages 7 to 
13 of the Reprint), clause 
3]-Dekte all the provi- 
sions given under this 
clause. 

(iii) [Pages 70 to 74 (pages 72 
to 76 of the Reprint), 
clause 17]- Delete all thg 
provisions given under 
this clause. 


October 1969 


1 Seprember 
1969 


3 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15 , 1 969 /KARTDCA 24 , 1891 



1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


(iv) [Pages 86 to 89 (pages 88 
to 91 of the Reprint) ^ 
clause 20]— Delete all the 
provisions given under 
this clause- 


5 

6 

1 


8 


IS: 1846-1961 Specification for lead- S-O. 2706 dated 18 November 
acid storage batteries for aircraft 1961 
(aerobatic and n on-aerobatic) 

IS: 1865-1968 Specification for iron S.O. 1455 dated 19 April 1969 
castings with spheroidal or r.odular 
graphite (Jim revision ) 

IS: 2026-1962 Specification for power SO. 2698 dated 1 September 
transformers 1962 


No. 2 November 

1969 

No. i November 
1969 

No. 4 October 
1969 


IS: 2037-1962 Specification for tracing S.O. 2562 dated it August 1962 No. 1 November 
doth 1969 


Ciatises6 3.1 and 6.3.2 hav* been 
substituted by new ones. 

Clause 9.2 has been substituted 
by a new one. 

(i) Tables IX & XIII and 
clause 17.13.7 3 (b) have 
been substituted by new 7 
ones 

(ii) Fig. 19, clauses 17.12.4.2, 

17.12.4.4.(3), 17.13.2, B-2-t 
& table Xll have been 
amended and 

(iii) A new i tem ‘i 8’ and anew 
dause A-i-l (di have 
been added. 

Densitometer has been included 1 November 1969 
as an addition-::! instru- 
ment of determination 
of transparency. The require- 
ments of transparency have 

also been modified- 


r November 
1969 

1 November 
1969 

14 October 1969 


9 *IS: 2083-1962 Specification for flash 
lights 


10 IS: 2567-1963 Specificationformalathion 
emulsifiable concentrates 


S.O. 2838 dated 15 September *No. 2 June 
1962 1969 

S.O. 1102 dared 28 March 1964 No. 3 September 

1969 


(i) Clauses 7 - 0 . 1 , 7-3-t and 1 June 1969 

3.1. 1 have been amended. 

(ii) Anew 7 clause 7.7 has been 
added. 

(i) Clause 2-2- 1 has beeD sub- 27 October 1969 
stituted by a new one 
(ii) A new item ff) has been 
added after c&use 3.2 (e) 

& subsequent items re- 
numbered accordingly- 


4970 THE GAZETTE of INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 (Past II 



II IS : 3°o3 (Part I)- 1966 Specification for S.O. 4023 dated 31 December No. 1 October 
carbon brushes for electrical machines 1966 1969 

Part I Nomenclature, dimensions and 
test methods. 


12 IS: 3°S5 (Part III>I967 Specification for S.O. 287 dated 20 January 1968 No. 1 September 
thermoplastic insulated weatherproof 1969 

cables. 

Part iriPoivethylcnektsulared and polye- 
thylene sheathed. 


13 IS: 3168-1965 Specification for brass S.O. 3450 dated 6 November 

strip and foil for deep drawing 196 5 

14 IS: 3904-1966 Specification for thiometon S.O. 4114 dated 11 October 

con centrales. 1969 


No. 3 October 

1969 

No. 1 September 

1969 


15 IS: 3905- 1966 Specification for thiometon 
emulsifiable Concentrates. 


S.O. 1972 dated 10 June 1967 No. 1 September 

1969 


16 IS : 4100-1967 Specification for gin 


S.O. 520 dated 10 February 1968 No. 1 October 

1969 


17 IS : 4697-1968 Methods of measurements 
on geiger-muDer cou n ter tubes. 


S.O. 3961 dated 9 November 
1968 


No. 1 October 
1969 


18 IS: 4941-1968 Specification for honey S.O. 1906 dated 17 May 1969 

19 IS: 4948-1968 Specification for welded S.O. 1906 dated 17 May 1969 

steel wire fabric for general use. 


No. 1 November 
1969 

No. 1 October 

1969 


(i) Clauses 6.1, 6.2 and 6. 3. 1.2 

have been amended. 

(ii) Clause 6. 3. 4.3 has been 

substituted by a new one. 

(iii) A rew clause 6.3. 1.5 has 

been added after 6.3.I.4. 

(i) Clauses 6.1, 7.1, 9.1 10.1.1 
and table 1 have been 
amended. 

(ii) A new clause 10,1 1 (n) 
has been added and clause 
10.1.2(e) substituted by a 
new one 

A note has been added at ihe 
end of clause 1.1. 

A new clause ‘A-2. 12’ and new 
matter after clause A-3.1 have 
been added. 

A new c'-aUse D-2-12 has been 
added and new matter in- 
cluded at the end of clause 
D-3.I 

(Page 5, clause 3.3 — Note, live 
2>— Substitute ‘±2 percent’ 
for‘±l percent’- 

The existing composition of 

ETDC 39:P6 at page 2 has 
been substituted by new one 

(Page 4, clause F-2’ 1 i,line 1)- 
Substitute ‘Kle rr’ for ‘Keirth 

Foot-note with an asterisk (*) 
mark at page 4 and first sen- 
tence of clause 4.1 have been 
substituted by new one. 


1 October 1969 


t September 

1969 

1 October 1969 
1 September 

1969 

27 October 1969 

24 Ocl cber 1969 


1 October 1969 


I November 
1969 

1 October 1969 


For purposes of ISI Certification Marks Scheme IS: 2083-1962 shall be operative both with and without Amendment No. 2 of Ju n e 1969 upto 
1 March 1970. 

These amendments are avilabk with the Indian Standards Institution, ‘Manak Bhavan’, 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi-i and 
also its branch office at (i) 534 Sardar Vallahhbhai Patel Road, Bombay-7 (ii) Chowringhee Approach, Calcutta-13, (iii) 4 Gtneitl Faliers Read 
Madras-2, (iv) 117/148 B. Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur, and (v) 5-9-201/2 Chirig Ali Lane, Hydeiabad-i. 


[No. CMD/ 13 : 5J 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 497 1 



THE GAZETTE 6F INDIA: NOVEMBER 13, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


New Delhi, the 31st October 1969 

S. O.4588 — In pursuance of sub-rule(i) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards Institution 
(Certification Marks) Rules, 1955 the Indian Standards Institutior lertbv 1 otifts tli>t the 
Standard Mark design of which together with the verbal description of the design "rd the 
title of the rcleva nt Indian Standard is given in the Schedule hereto annexed, hus been 
specified. 

This Standard Mark for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certiftaiion 
Mark) Act 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder, shall comeinto force with 
effectfrom 16 October 1969. 


The Schedule 


SI. Design of the Product /Class of No. and Title of the Verbal description of the 

No. Standard Mark Product Relevant Indian j Design of the Standard 

S andard Mark 


(1) (2) (3) (4) 


(S) 


1 IS 13900 



Ziram, technical ,18:3900-1966 Spe- The monogram of the 
cification for ziram, Indian Standards Ineti- 
technical. tution, consisting of 

letters ‘ISI’, drawn in 
the exact style and rela- 
tive proportions as indi- 
cated in Col- (2), the 
number designation of 
the Indian Standard 
being superscribed on 
the top side ofthc mono- 
gram as indicated in the 
design. 


[No. CMD/13 :9] 


S. O 4589— In pursuance of sub- regulation (3) of regulation 7 ofthc Indian Standards Insti- 
tution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies 
that the marking fee per unit for 2 ram technical, details of which arc given in the Schedule here- 
to annexed has been determined and the fee shall come intoforce with effect from 16 October, 1969. 


The Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

Product/Ciass of 
Products 

No. and Title of Relevant 
Indian Standard 

Unit 

Marking Fee per 
Unit 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

I 

Ziram, technical 

IS:39°o-i966 Specification 

One tonne 

Ra. 3 -oo 



for ziram, technical 




[No. CMD/13: to] 

A. K. Gupta, 
Deputy Director General. 





Sec. 3(ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4973 

fetfroro nm totto ?fjT ^ kith wwr 

from) 

at 2 TTOT, 1969 

1 ?To WTo fo 4590 : — TO: TTOTT Tt Tf STcftr ftTT | % Tto 7 %T Jr 

wwrr|%’j 5 rTRi tt^ ^ J r s^t ? iwr ie JyTytfyTO 
I ^Ptitot ?rt ’f^yfrTO % Tfrofr $ frrtT qTTOrrTO rrr t«tt srrfrfror % ?mr>r ot 
fror$ TFfy TTfirr $fyr i^fy cri i ^«-jy ^"y froTO % tottt % fr^ Jr tPto 

*$* Jr 'J'Wl'T TT srfaqTTT «rfoRT ^TCTT STTW? 

¥Tcr:, m, wrrrro (*}fT Jr ttott % Tfrort *rr ttTt) sTftrfTTO, 

1962 ( 1962 tt so) qft urn 3 qfr w (1) jttt snro Tflmf qrr sft>t qror gtj 
stttt % TOir twit to srfircrn; srfrT to^F to tot mm to^tito ^ r t fif cr 
fron % 1 

3. tto 'ffjrr Jr f?.mz to£ arfro, to *jfr % a'Viy ttstotto (toft ^ froy 
tsto snferrofr, tosittt wtttto (arr tot mffm to tmm) % to t P to, 

TOfaT % 'TfrTOft «fcr, T¥ T o 27, TTOTTT TIT, TffofqWT % TWartkr-4 w'l TO 

srftrom tt^Pj Jr 2 1 faff % tftar *rr ^tt i tot %rm totF arm TOfro 
fafTfero Tf «fr toto «P^rrr far tot to tt^tt | far toPF grorf TOfror: ft tt froft 
frftr sroroft tV titot i 


®TO‘*T TOT TTOT 1 6 art TTTOT ^ Tt *TO I TOT H i^M TfTO frlVSI'l % friy 


TTTO : TJTTTT 

TW - 


TT^FT : 

: H'KIm 

TtT 

TT«TO TTOT 


STTT 

ff TITT 


822 

0 

14 

25 


821 

0 

7 

51 


820 

0 

7 

51 


806 

0 

5 

78 


[ttot 2o(-s)j67-wi «rt Tt/Jrro ^ $rf3Rr] 


VTo Wfo tfo 4591 : — TO: %^TT TTTOT TO Tf TcftcT fETr | fV TTT%T if 
TO TOTOTT | fqr TOTOTT TOTO Jr TO?flT q'T STvT if TOTT TOT fTO TTOT TT 

'P'T T3T %'TT T'F f jtfTTO % qfV^^W % fT^ Tr^HotTTO q‘T TOTTiyfcTT oil TTTiT JITT 

fsrart Trfy Trf?^ tK to> ti^ti TOfrorT % ttTOt fTT tojttts" ^ ^Pro 

TfT Jr TTTPT TT 5rffJ+TT 5rFTT T'TOT ?)TTTOT |; 



4974 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTKA 24, 1891 [Part II — 

wt:, we, e^tFwee et^ewt^e (^fw 4 eweFe^ wfusTE we she) wFstFeee, 

19 62 ( 1962 EE 5 0} S>i -PET/ 3 Eft EEWfTr (l) ffDT WEE ErfSqET SEWEFe EXE 

jq %Eriw etwee 4 eeF eteri ee wFwette wFee west wtee -tfrfq-a- 
Feet | i 

3. EEcT WffE 4 fosES TTtf 5EiET, ET 4W $ -ftE TT^EIT^E r E3fF % Fwq 
WTWS EWE EtfEETCt, XWETS ST^EETSS (tfW SET ETf:FsE SS WTE~ts) % SSE1EE, 
ETfo % ifEESt WE, ETE S ° 27, EET^W TIE, E^E SE%E' % STS ETkWsri W 
WRIEST Sit ERfa E 2 1 fori % WtST SR WEST I qsT WTWS SEE STST swfss 
forEFE^: Si? El ESS Ei^ETT fo SST EE EE ET^aT | fo ESSE gSETf ssfons: St ET 
FsEtt FsFw ^SESTEt sE EPfiS I 


fl f\ 

f Wt ESS EfEKTETT It S?S SET %?ff EE ST^S ST?S fsSJiE % Fwq 


tt ht : sere Feet ; wesetsts srwss : sEEr 


EtS 

EE WE EEET 

|ESE 

ETT 

$ 

— t 

EtEETE 

. 552/1, 2 EFT 3 

0 

2 

40 


[(HIT 29( 5)/68~WT$o Wto sEo/WST ttuj EPss] 


s£ FeeXF, 5 WSFE, 196 9 

SEo Eto tto 4 5 92 EE: ^EftS SEETE SS E^ EEtE ^tET | Fsr wEf ffT^ 
WIESES | fo XEETE THE X SHtW Xw WW X SEES WW $W SSET 1 9/ 2 0, 2 1 X <5fro WU 
qSo 2 SET ^tfEEE % EfEESE 4: FwX ETETET^E SW EET MT?foF Xsw TETE EFT fEwt 
WtsE EtFeE W*tT XXt STCst sX XresX % SEXES X FeE EE?EEE W^TfSt X e 1%E Wfa 
it eseXs et wFwett eTet EEET ETEEEE I; 

EE*- EE, EXtfEEE STWTHS (sjfX X EIEtS % wfsmT SS EEe) WfwfSSE, 
1962 ( 1962 ET 5o) SE WTTT 3 sE TTO ( l) STTTEES StfSESt ET WEtSETX |<t 
W i#E TFEEE E E’TE EEETE EE EFFETE eFeE EEE EE ETST ETEE EE51TTO ETFEE FeET 

I I 

3. EEE ’fjFE it foEa' E*4t «EfEE, EE tjfE •ffE EFRET^E Fe®tE % FEE ETWE EWE 
ETFeEETT, XETTE ETEE FTCE EET ETffEE ETEtE) % EEEtWE, EEfo E" 'lFFE*ft 
WE EtE to 27 E+.WIT TfE, E^ETIE % ETE E^ET-4 EEt EE eFe^EET eF ETftET tt* 
21 FEEf % ^ftET S>E EE'ET I ^Et ETWE EWT^: ^EfEE FEfsfoEE? »ft ETEEEfon* 
fo EET E? E? ETSET | Fei EEEt ^EElt ^Efotw: ^t Et fEEft fotJ ^EEEPft 'Et EI^E l 




Sec. 3 (ii ) J THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 2-1, 1891 4975 

WTSf* 

RWT 1 9,20 RRT 21 «T 5ffo Rio RRo 2 RT iRWl % f^TT 

TEST : -TSTTET fRRERTTT RTRRT : RETT 

RiR rrctr wr |r?t rit ft ott 


WITTI 173/3 0 7 92 


[RRRT 29/7/68-Trrfo Rio Rio NTT — RfRR (TfT) ] 

RtT° WT° tfo 4593 RR: TOR Tt Rf R-flR flRT | % RTRfjR Rj; 

R|R9'H> J fri TTci TRR RTflR Rr RR Si r! ^fl RR II R dilHR RlR'Tti %— 2 % RTR 
RRTR 1 RRRT RR q^tfRRPT % TpCRTR % fRR TTTWTR ^T RRT STRfRR RR RTRlR 5TTT 

faw£ rfH rt^ *flr tlfft rtfH t! fa^Ft % trIrr % Utr r^tirst RR;g^t R RfWR 
ir RTRlR TT RfKRRT Rf%R TTRT R1RUR+' $; 

RR: RR, ’fcjtfwr RITRRTSR (*j1r t RRRtR % srftEPTT RT R^R) RfafRRR, 
1962 ( 1962 TT 50) ®Fl EITTT 3 T?1 RTRTTT (1) 5HTT RRR SlftRRT RT RRlR >!>TlT 
JR %R«lR RWTT % RE^T RRRtR TT RftpRTT Rf%R RT% RT RTRT RPUR RR33TTT RURR 
HhRI ^ I 

3. RRR ^ t fjRRS 5RfifR, RR wfir % Rt% TTSWr^R fa^Fl % fRR RT#T 
RCrTR RT RRKI, RRTTR RFTTRIST ( ^R RRT RTTflRT *tR RTRlR ) % RTRIrR, RTln 
% TftROl ffiR, RR Ro 27, RRTRRT fir, #f£R R^RTR % TTR RTkr-4 rT W RfgTJRRT 
dlDm % 2 1 fRRt % RlRT RT R%RT | i^RT ReHr RTFl RTRT fT brIrR fRfRfcR : RJ 
nfl RRR TTtRT Pf RRT Rf[ RJ RTJR1 I 1% RRRl 5 RRT ? ^RfRTRT: RT fwl fRfR SRRRPfl 

R> RIR1R I 

qfl 3fr RR R®TT 2 R 3TfRR Rr^RT R-2 % RTR RETT Ri'JRE RT TV 7 RRR fRTIR 

% fRR 


TE3R: RRTRT PifRi : qnr RrRTT : RTRT 

S3 'i) 


RTR 

RRTTR RRRT 

Irrt 

RTT 

q'lRn: 

TRRffT 

307/1 

0 

3 

50 


261 

0 

0 

72 


[WT 29/7/ 69-Wto TTfo Tfr°/RRT R^R RfRR] 



4976 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


TOo WTo 4 5941— —TOT: %rftT TOTOT Tt TOJ TOffd TOdT % Rfl '^Tl ^ f^d if 
TO W | f% ^-TOTcT TTTO if TOTtW TOT TTTT if ^ ^ ^ III ^ ^ qfliwT 

% hRt^i % Ri i( ifrr tto a i ^ Ri 4> tfd totEt gnr Rhh^ TOEft d i R 1 ' sitr 

nRl wrrTT to fronE % sraftror % Rtf ddj'ETOg' iriffr if tRit dfE if torEt TOTOfoTOT 

^r^RT TORT TOTORTO |; 

tot: TOTT^rfim qi^i^r (ijfir if ttotEt % TTfarorc tot tor) 

1962 ( 1962 TOT 50) *f?t BTTT 3 3WTT (I) 8TTT TOR TOfTORt TOT srtfpT TOTOt 
dTTOTT % T?T% dld'El TOT TrfdTOK *)ldd TOTOT TOT TORT =Ml«N iTcT^ gTTf Etfw 

Mt $ i 

3. 4 to djfir if %R3 TOtf odfro, '3TT '•jTd % dt^f Mt^Hdl^d fdtsRt Rdd TOretT 
TIWT M I RjTOrft, TjoRFT wis.'-KTl^d (^TT cRT SEtjldTO *fTT MITORT ) % TOETRdd, TOftTr 
% dfiMt sfa, ifa do 27, TOTOTgTT dR, TO^ET TO+TOR % THT TlW-4 TOt TOfEEJTOTr 
*rft dPEd it 2 1 fort % tfRn: tot e^rt i to$to TOrot tort Rfror fTOfrofroR: 
TOTJ *ft TOTOTO TOT9IT fro TOT TOiJ TO?T TOiiroi ^ fro 139+1" ^4 TOI ^ *h fro^l 1 ijt TOT f+dt f*Tftr RTOiTEft 
Tit TOTTOd I 

oft oft t^TT 3 TT TOTT 9 1 Sd 4 cfTF H I Z‘f Tfl tR Ri{5(*t R'R 


TER: TOTOTTTO RtoTT: iTfETRT TOEJTOT1 Tift 


TOT 

TOOTWT 

|tot 

TOT 

qtTOT 

TORTOTOET 

mm 

0 

3 

64 


■SSI 

0 

6 

48 


[dTOTOT 20/3/67-TOr£° TOt° dfto/^RT rr^ i^Rtto (l{)] 


wTo *tt° 45 95 : — TOT: fcfftTO TOTTOR TO TO? Tcftd ftdT | Rb TOT%TT if 
T? TOTOTTi' | Rp TdTET TTOT if TOTRf 5Td if TOTOT TOTf jqT TTOT afto Tfo tr^o 

TTOT I T ’fto r'to rr^o ddf TjtfWTT % dfro^T % ffTT TT^TOT^T q'5T TTf TiyfdTl 
4t tetet sitt Rr®,! Rr-fr tV cfm to^tt to f^.T % ttitot % fm, ttjttto 
if TfTd if tto>t to ^tFsttot ?rf%d t;w tototo |; 

’tfd:, ffd, 7;TRTTOT 'US'MTJ'T (^Rt if RTOtT % srfiTTOT TO TOTE ) srfsrfTTOT, 
1962 ( 1 962 TO 50) TO TORT 3 dft TOTOTT (I) dlTf TTOT TfTOdf TO SETiT TTff 
%?fEf TOTOT T Edir TTOfRT TT 'EftrTOT Iff^d 41TT TO TORT TO TOT ^d^HT TlfTOT 

Retto | I 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KART1KA 24, 1891 4977 

3 . 373 ijfir 3 ff37£ 7%f 37f% : -, 73 7/7 % 7 %% 'TUfTnr^ £ f^rtT 
5737 tstt nifairfi, ^^ptct 'ir^'TWi (%3 371 7i7fa7 ^3 ?77%7) % tttIiw, 
73t91 % ifSTTt 9T3, 513 27 , 77T3R 3 % 7, 3;£3 77537 7 TW 73)91-4 7% ^3 

337X771 3% cTTOW % 2 1 f%7% % 7)77 33 3%7t I fTT S79T7 73% 3171 f3 53f%3 

fq'fqf^: 73 *ft 7777 9^71 f% 3 tt 3f 7f 3if7i | f% 339 % 5771 ^ 57 ) 7331 : ft 71 
IVb% f3fn 537717 % %% tttV 1 


tr %wft 

7% %% 1T3 1 % 7% 2ft fT 33 77373 7T$7 71T7 f%87% % 


31^7 : 77313 

f%raT : 7 31 


3T37I 

: 7137 

717 

33917 3371 

|7R: 

533 

%t 717 

331713 

I 62/1T/4 

0 

0 

61 


154 

0 

5 

57 


970/2 

0 

1 1 

1 7 


987/1 

0 

1 

15 


[337 2 9 / 7 / 6 8-53$ ^ 7%° %t°/%33 7R ^f^TTtr] 


VR WTo 4 590 : — 77: %7% T 33P13 7% 7f 7%t3 f%v71 | f%7 7%3rff3 % 3f 

TTRTp t if Tr5f!T ^ ^ 3 777377$5ri;7S7l7%o sfto irq-o VII 

% frr 3° I 37 f j%f333 % qfRTfq % fm 71*731*7 77 77 r %3 srRfRr JHt 

fsrsrf tit% 7iffi£ sfk $tft 71 * 7 % 9 % f7®r% % 7 3777 % fw^ <X7f7i7«- <rxgrt 7 3F»i3 
•*/% % 3 1717 97 7 17973 5lF73 9R7T VT7WP |; 

73, 37, f jrPTTT qi*T3T*7 ( 7 T 7 7 397%7 % 5lf39T3 97 377 ) 7fsif977, 
1962 ( 1962 77 50) 3% 3171 3 9% 393171 ( l) £171 773 9lf937t 97 7717 37% |<r 
%3%7 37977 7 777 73717 97 VF9177 7F79 77% 71 797T 511517 ^1171 7%f%3 
fTTT | I 

3. 771 7/7 % ff777 97$ aqfw, 77 7/7 7 %t% qr*931*7 f%3t% 7 f%<r 
53^9 7917 7lf%T77%, ^7713 91*931*7 ( %3 37 r 7Tfrf37 %7 5H7T7) 7 717^7, 
anfal % 9f973% 73, 917 %o 2 7, 74-7571 717, if ^7 7751T7 % 317 73)91-4 71 **r 
TfV'JTTT 7% 71317 % 2 1 ftTl % 7t37 77 7%71 I %7T 7W3 77% 7171 fT sqf77 
f7F7f%R:: 7f 7% 777 7%7T f7 771 7f 7f 31f3r | f7 377% ^TTTf 57f717: ft 71 
fT7% f%Rj 577717% 7t 7173 I 



4^78 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [Part H — 


ft jfV OR 7 R fET ERTT 1 EE RT$E RT^E OfSlT % fR<T 
TT^E : RETTE PERT : ErElER?’ ETTET : REVERT 


TIT 


zpri 


RRTTR RERT 

tv;< 

TTP 

'ft t(lT 

346/2 ' 

0 

9 

00 

3 5 3/1 

0 

1 

00 

354 

0 

0 

35 

3 5 2/l Rt 

0 

0 

50 


[jw 20 / 3 / 67 “?Hfo 5 ft 0 Elo /'TT 7 ’ E 0 ’? E FEE ] 

vio 5tT° 4597 :— re: EEftr etett Et srcfizr «i d i ^ Pit EiEnor Jr Eit 

5 TT^WTi' ^ fE RETIE TPE Jf RmI'T WE Jf 8t l«H ZEE JR I RRRT Et o Et o 1 5 ^ off o 3 ft o 
jT ^ 0 1 1 dT> E'jtfEEE % TfrEiTE % fcpt RTIEEntE ^E cT’TT ^ZT WPTtR 5 TO *qt 9 i{ 

STEft ETf^ *fk $*ft EPpff Et fTOFt % 5 PttER % 1 %tt Ecf^qro ^ EpEE »j;fE if 

giEi>T *pt ttPott ttIee rtet ww $; 

5 ET: EE, E^fERE Htwr (^fR Jr EEEtR % TlftlER EE TpfE) EfEfEER 1962 
( 1962 EE 50 ) E?T OTE 3 E?f TRETE (i) STE ERE ZTpRETt EE ERIE EElf §tt 
^ g-^Jf ^pfEr EE ElftTETC e 1 %E TzE EE mM'II ‘mivm EE^ gTE Ttf r T E fRRI & I 

3. ree *jfR Jr f^znrs e^ *9 Pfd, er KjfJr % *ft^ ottviehh (dwi't (e <\ tess^r 
^TK fR- srrfETRTPEt, ^"STTRT NT^T ETT^T (ftE ET M lt>fdT TEEtR) % EEEtEE E 0^1 % EfVERt 
57 ® r 2 7 , RTT'JTT TTE, E^E E^WI % HIE TfRT - 4 Ert EE TlfTFJEET RE El^Pa* ?T 
2 1 f^R“j ^7 ^fEfT *ET R%RT I iJRT RT#T EPR RETT ?T £EfEE (VPlf^E R? «ft REE E^RT % 
=^rTT I PE EERtt RRRlf *4 (REST: t ET Wt fafa ' 5 EEEEft E?I RIRkT I 

5 T^Rtft 

^fo ifto-i 5 ft oft® ■ 3 fr i^R 2 re’ qrsRRr^R fR®ifr Ptr 

TrTR : RTTCTR P 3r? TT : ETT RTRET : RETT 


rRrt RStr 


rtt 

rItet 

154/1 

0 

8 

46 

1 54/2 

0 

0 

40 

150 

0 

1 

80 


[RSRf 29 / 7 / 68 - RT^o Tito Rto y ?TRTtTOR%pTR ^t] 



Sue. 3 (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4979 


2 6 19 6 9 

TTTo !RTo 45 98: — W: 6 GMT 4T T? TTrftcT ?>TT | R *1? 

?TI*3 J H. % f+ ’T ’T’FT T l 'T F TTTT M 4 3R5PT FEET f ; RT RSRT RFTFT 14 (i*IT° 
Cn?fo ) it 15 (jtro ito ) FFT 4 % faTT TfTT?rr^T OTT STrtrfcFF % 

wetFt airr fror£ ^rnff ^TfPr ?rk ^fr vnrrt % iw^ % srWt % fair srjg/fr 

R ^foicT ^jfiT R TTTFT TT srfWTT ?rf%T ^TRF SIFT^ | ; 

m:, m, ,J I ; Jlf HNH (^5? R TTTFT % FlftTEn: TT flfaffFT'T, 

1962 ( 1962 TT 50) ^ft STHT 3 OT9TTT ( l) HTT IKtT *FT ST#T gC[ 

^t^jTVn RWTT ^ : T?T*t -dMOPT STfsmT nI^jiT vl 40 SPFTT ?Tf?PT ^cf3 4Kl "-f l fa T feir ^ I 

3. ^Pr ?r %TO Tff safari, TR- ^ TO^TF fTOTT % farT Rl#r 

?twt snfti+r<t, Rto tni^ tnio rwt (fcr ^«n snt>%+' wnft»r) % wto, srrter 
% ifaTtft M5T, m 27, W^'T Ttl, Rf^FT TTWT % THT SRtel-4 Tt?R srfsTCJW 
*ft c-rrtte t 2 1 fam % vfr.fT tt 6%Rr 1 ^?rr ^ gr srfao faftfos: wt 
wt 'f^ir fr w *r? r? =sn^rr | % ^<if ^farim: £t or fast ftrftr ft wt 

I 


ti'ii'fi 5»ir^r<wi 1 4 (t£ET° ^T° ) % 2 >nT OSH! 1 5 (l^ 0 it®) h i am <?i I ^* 1 fa®T% 

I 


<1^9 : T^niT 

"9 

fafFTT : *T^HI 

TTV[4>I 

: +in 


ITR 

t1°l3TT RWI 

tfIT 

sm: 

<ftWR 

4«raT3f 

457/1 4 

0 

10 

82 


457/2 j 





456 

0 

0 

50 


455 

0 

7 

38 


449 3 

0 

12 

44 


448 J 



’TFT TTPTT VTi 

0 

0 

90 


45 0 

0 

1 

81 


444 

0 

1 

00- 


44 3 

0 

15 

41 


438/2 

0 

2 

82 




THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1 969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [PASf II— 
TET T 43 TT iftqT - T NT- Tt NT 7 ! 


438 U? 
438/iaft 

1 

1 

1 

t 

y 0 

1 

60 

438 / 1 Tf! 
437 j 2 

1 

j 

1 

0 

1 

11 

430 


0 

8 

4 

431 


0 

5 

86 

3 76 


0 

0 

50 

375 


0 

10 

14 

374 /l 
374/2 


\ 

3 

74 


[?rwr 20 / 3 / 67 -mfo srt° tTo/ttt riur srf^] 


fr'-Tt, 3 SEfgNT 19 69 

Ttlo WT" 4599: — TT: T^tT TTTTTT W, HrflT ZTTr | ftr $rftr%r if 
TEWT? | ft? ’pTTET TT^T % TTlT WT it JETT OTT fW EWT 1 1 9 T sfro^ftotT^o 
VII cPT % qfTTfT % f'ltr TT^qnTfT TT TTT Tlf^TT ETERI STITT ft^Tf 

TT?fr Trftq; tVt Rifr Tt fsrarrT % setDtt % ftrq; ^TfTT^rar n-j^T t tAtt *jftr 
n gtpfft !pr st^rtt eFtt wr nttvw | ; 

NT:, tit, -f ^If-TTR TTTTTTr'T (*jfr R 3 WRT % NfNTTT «PT N^T) rfsfm, 
1962 ( 1962 qn 5 0 ) ^ 8TTT 3 ^WTTT ( 1 ) STTT TTtT UfftfETt TT TTET spTSr 
g0[ TTafTT TTTTT T TTT TTTTT TT StREETT NfNT TNT TT STITT ETWT TTTTTTT TlftcT 

ftm | 1 

3 . ttt Nf'T Jr ftarTS v\i softer, tt «jfti % HYt tts'ett^t fasift % %r 

stt^t twt TifTTrCt, 'prTrr qmrn^r tnt teiYtt srnrft) % TiofaN, ttVtt 

T TfaTTT &T, 9T? To 27, TNTTTT TIT, T^JUTT % TTTT TTfcT-4 TT ?TT STfET^W 

*61 TTffar % 2 1 ftrf % tffaT NT *ftm I t^TT NTSTT NTY TEST ?T sqftr ftfTft 1 ^ 
T? nft TTT TYTT f% NTT Tf T? TTfTT | ft, TITTY TJTTft ^TfTTT: ft TT fTTft fafu 
sqronft aft RP&T I 

WTH^ft 

JsrtimT%0 ^to 1 19 ^rjfj-osfVoTT^o VII TN '-HiTHITR' Itott T f?TTT 
W : ’pTTBT ftjTTT: NtNETRTT TT^fTT : TTN'Tf^ 


Tft 


trrr ntt 'fto ntt 


TTTTJT 


TTWT 


0 

0 


6 

1 


15 

95 



fee. 300] THE C3AZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4981 


ITT* tfWJT *TW 


snr 

<fto *rr<: 

fr° tffo ^T5 |jp 

0 

0 

75 

12 

0 

u 

44 

14 

0 

10 

40 

16 

0 

n 

70 

;fto -fto 

0 

2 

21 

97 

0 

5 

98 

98 

0 

6 

63 

96 

0 

2 

47 

99 

0 

19 

05 

<fto *t£ fV 

0 

0 

55 

100 

0 

13 

21 

?fto cfto sprt 

0 

1 

95 

164 

0 

0 

50 

100 

0 

14 

95 

158 

0 

6 

76 

157 

0 

4 

55 

155 

0 

10 

79 

?ft° <ff* **£ 5*: 

0 

0 

78 

154 

0 

21 

82 

195 

0 

6 

12 

199 

0 

6 

17 

197 

0 

6 

35 

207 

0 

19 

86 

206 

0 

12 

6 8 

208 

0 

17 

36 

aft° 'fto f*P 

0 

1 

24 

!1*1^5T 577 

0 

5 

85 

sttt^t sftr 




% sft* ET*; 

0 

3 

90- 

577 

0 

6 

59 

576 

0 

8 

95 


[tOktt 20/3/67-^0 %fto tfto/faTqvffrfrm] 


fotft, 6 VW1H, 1969 

wio <tto 46 00 : — 'W:, 'f^tr^nnr, tt^t sit?* % <rfircrrT 

1962 ( 1 962 ^iT 3o) STTCT 3 4?f y^HPT ( l) % !#T *1TCT ?H3PTT 
% vk WIR R?TFFW trfa^Mr «fTTo KTo Ho 2378 cTT^T 7-6-69 ITT 




4982 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Past II— 

MTr % ot # fafa-fee Hf^ff % xwm % srftrrrx 

TRI HI £ r 'iV fwST^ ^ SEftHT % f'T'T XlfjfT TX^T XT 5PETT v, \ «N HTfTT XZ felT $ I 

srh: tz hstr arfsrxnzr T 741 RfsrfJRir xt ski 6 xr ttotzt ( 1 ) % ^tetIt zzmz 

xt fzTTi ^ t> | 1 

tffa q^r: JRZTT ^ HXT fxTtt XT f^TX XX% % (RZRT ^ srffJ^Xn JT -tf^T 

xri'prr Jr fafrf^z *jfJrxf % httYit zr srfkzR zftrrr ixt xt fafafzzr fxrr | 1 

WX, 2TXT- ZTl AifdfTTR *iit UTTT <j Xt d m si i 'J ( 1 ) BTZI T5XT “iPtd XT SPTYT X”T% 

gv txjYW *rxk o q ^3 1 <1 xzrrt o fx 'Hfyg^rr Jr xFjrj^r Jr fxfJi 1 z i z 

gnw HjfRlff Jr WftJT XT 5rfHZR Tirr HRX fTOH % % fZT ZI^nZT srfHX fzTT 

<srrar \ sto: hit trrtr xt 3T*nzr ( 4 ) jtct 7?n xfxzrf xt srx>r xzJr rzxtt 

$ fx 3XT TjfJrxf Jf W>T *FT vfMXR %HTta 3TXTT ir fa%T % THW 
srofJrx fl*r wrx>r Jr, *r*ft f^wrf Jr ijxr w Jr, w 'tYwt % wm n?V ^ nifta xt 
fJr%r $>n 1 

% 62Jr'jfr^fMT7rVFf T r wr Hrxx fronT 
TTT'T : T'JRRT fw 1 JT^MT TTPJXT : ZHET 







Sec. 3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 13, 1 969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4983 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 


O', 

M 

to 

0 

0 

75 


682 

0 

1 

20 


683 

0 

1 

00 

Trrwmft 

J 46 

0 

24 

00 


147 

0 

1 5 

70 


151 

0 

16 

00 


150 

0 

12 

20 


0 4to 't'li 

0 

1 

50 


158 

0 

28 

50 


1 59/2 

0 

9 

80 


214 

0 

23 

40 


213 

0 

6 

94 


222 

0 

6 

14 


210 

0 

4 

85 


223 

0 

4 

83 


224 

0 

21 

10 


Tlo Tlo TTi 

0 

0 

68 


225 

0 

24 

84 


TWT To 327 





'fl’o ^0 JfTT ^*fr 

0 

0 

60 


327 

0 

12 

60 


2 8 S 

0 

0 

20 


289 

0 

5 

98 


290 

0 

9 

60 


298 

0 

13 

60 


[t® 29/ 5/ 68^1^0 sfto i( ij « ^rfarcr] 


51,% T 

2 TDT*T 1969 

VTo WTo 4601 ; — VTTTtT 6136 K % ?ftT WFf EWRT ^ wfa^Fir 

WT 20/3/67-5^0^0 #lo/§RT ( 10 ) f^TTT 12-5-1969 %WT 5TT^?r 

i935^5FT^^ET^%ii ; JmETn'II gr*? (ii) frrpp 24 - 5-1969 

irttot f?rr tt, ^ ^ wr 20755^*1% Jr tw 666 lr^nTTC *rf- 
; «ET *mr 566 Tf^T I 


[tiwi 20/3/67— 5Tpfo Tto ?fl 0 /%TT ITO5 01 



4984 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [Paut II— 


<(TTo 4602 : — RTTxT % 7£tf?T7JT sftr WHET 7 ft ’fffep^^TT 

TO 1 T 20/3/67-TTT£o ftto ftto/?fa< ( 7 ) f^pp 12-5-1969 fVg'+'l TTfJJrft m%7T 

#®TT 1932 % »irer % TT 7 W HW II, ? 7 TO 3 % ^ 57 - 3 TTO (il) fcrfpp 24-5-1969 
TTmnr ijm «ri, % ^ m»7T 201 1 ftVr msr ftbrn (Ti*ftmft) Jr msferor ftwr 2 1 5/ 
it (%i 9 ?r) % 

*n^ 'ftrrrc mi <ft 0 ott 

% 777 T 77 — qf$q | 

12 94 00 0 12 94 

[TOT 20 / 3 / 67 -Wrfo Tft^^o/^RTtJoiJrfsRr] 


7 i fefr, 4 <7777, 1969 

77o mo 4603 : — ■WTRrT TTTTTT % sft? 77777 ?P4T 3TFT sfk SIFT 

trtrpt ^rfa^-mn liwr 29/7/68-Trto ftto ftTo/Jrax (9) fcmrr io- 4 ~i 969 
1470% mm % Ti^m mr 7 II, *aro 3 % 37 -t*to (ii) 

fSFTFT 19-4-1969 %t 5T4TmnT jm «TT, % 7TO TWIT 1381 ?ft7 7t7 77T7TIT 7T7T,, 

*ter Jr iRffmn’ b’wt 3 oe / 1 77 faftftr ftrm srni 1 

[flo 29 / 7/6 8 -WTfo?i>oirro/# 5 n: ttsy #fag- (si)] 


ttt° wio 460 4 : — mm tor % ftk mw 7m ih ftk 

mi ttpt 7ft srftr^mTr sftwi 29— 7— 68 -rn^o ?fto ftto ^77; ( 2) (44141 10-4-69 fmwr 
m^sr ttstt 1 463 % mm % Tr^rm m^II, tjto 3 % ;j 7 -mw ( ii ) feTfar 
19-4-69 %t mpimr Tfw 1374 - 75^)7 *it*r wrm % t*th 77 

graVr wit 1 e 5/ 1 % ^rr srrc ft- *77 ^ str^titc 

% ^*TR 77 'l( i>7 l 

0 8 09 0 18 60 

2. wft (ftm mrem Tivrmlr 77 fmftr fw mri :- 
mr^r gw T>r 190-2 'ft, ies-2, 190-2 

[ftw 2 9-7-6 8-mf oftfoTfto/JpTT TITO ftfaRT (tfV)] 

•pTo WTo 460 5 : — 7TCT 77777 % %jtftpT7 ftV7 7gT77 3*7 BTFT *f(T 

tn^ w rm %r srf wj ^ h i ttw 29 - 7 - 68 -mto wto ftto/ftTT ( 7 ) f^rtr io-4-i969 
farm 77 ^ ttw 1 46 8 % mmftr <*rrm % TT^m mr , 3 % 



Sac. 3(A)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4985 


ST-fSTtfS (ii) ftqro 19—4—1969 fit TOW JWT «TT, V fS ?PWT 1378 ^TT 1379 
nfa TTnftT flT^tpT THT $ f-TR ¥^wi Wft % tfT TfRfcR f*RT ^ J — 


*rTSRT ?mr fspR % «TR IT 

frR qffq 



|SHT 

’TRo 

stccrR 

t^R 

5TRo 

ft SRC 

1. 162 3 

0 

7 

0 

0 

7 

61 

2. 970 1 

0 

6 

2 5 

0 

17 

42 

3. 880 . 

0 

IS 

38 

0 

24 

38 

4. 989 . 

0 

9 

56 

9 

9 

56 


[TOT 29 / 7 / 68 -OT^o sfto tfto/tRT tro^ IrfjRI (sft)] 


^ foesfr, 5 SRRT, 1969 

mTo <sno '46 oe: — ?rrar rrst % sflr rter ttst ’sir sflr trrg trrr 

’tffVfa^TT WT 20/3/67-^0^0 #0 $RIT ( 1 ) ftrfr 7-6-1969 f'TffTl qTT^JffY 

r^hwt 2376%s^niT vror^TEsm vftII,^ 3 %^-^ (ii) fern 21 - 6-69 
^TTRR§*rr «tt,%ie3*tw 2490sftTR*#3r it <fw lose sfir 1074/4 
^ TT.^m: umr lOGezftx 1071 / 41 W 1 

[?1W 20/3/67/^0^0 EV/oR^C™?? TPsfTT] 


<pTo !HTo 4607; — ■' BTO Ml % Eft%TR 5rK TffRT rRT ’SR 5th UR; 
*RER ^ wfaf'STT TWT 20/3/67-^0 ?fto tfto ^SR f*REF 5- 6- 1 9 6 9 f^RTT 
«FT^fi <RT^?r HW 2 3 70%?ErEtrnTrR%‘Tr5nR'6'Rll l 3 % T’RsRS' (ii) feRT 
21-6-1969 TtSTHTR^T ST, T <£*5 RRT 2481 itfT BtS RTST % S#OT t(W 


%■ ETH IT Vftfvr tf©TT 



Irt 

421/ I - ] 

0 

418 / lj 

tRT 

421 /r 

l ° 

41 8/l 

r 


?tr i fto¥rrz 

16 29 

mr ifo mr 

G 29 

10 00 E% 1 T I 


[w 20 / 3/6 7 — TTt° w>o tfj-o wz KffTRi] 



4986 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Pari II — 


*5To WTo 4608 : — WITT WTFTT % %>fwWW wk TRTWW TWT UT-T wk 8 TIJ 

wwmw k wfag;wTT *teqr 20 / 3/67 wk° wk ifk kro fwdk e/ e/ 1 9 6 9 fwwtw 
TTTfft WT?W WSWT 2 37 1 T WnTfa WITT T TlTTST WTW II, 3 T T9 TUT (ii) 
pTdtT 2 1/6/ 19 69# Tim 1 fWT WI, T TO WW 248 3 Wk WTW WlST W WWkW #®TT 
420 % FWTW TT 400 WfTT | 


[wwr 20/ 3/ 6 7 — wto Tfro/%arr rrusr kfww] 


*To WTO 4609: — WRTWTTIT % TkfwWW wk TWTWW TWI ^PT wk WT 5 
WeTHW # wfwgWTT WWT 28/2/ 68-WT f° WTo Tft ^ /pT^T few# 6-6-1 969 fWTW3 
WTJ# WT#r WWWT 2 374 % Wm4d WRIT % TmWW WTW H 3 % WW-tTJW (ii) fcwiT 
21-6-1969 # TWTWWfWT WT, Tm WWWT 2 4 7 8 wk. WTW TWR % WWWW W o 1626/2 
% OTW k |T3T WR 'ftotTn % PWTW IT WTT <fkwTT wf^r I 

0 92 27 0 09 27 


[WWWT 2 8/ 2/ ; 6 8"%W T itht Mww] 

W ° ° fuiW WWK TTW, 

WWW wfww, W]TW WTTTT I 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS AND MINES AND METALS 
(Department of Petroleum & Chemicals) 

ERRATA 

S.O. 4610 . — -In the notification of Government of India in the Ministry of Petro- 
leum & Chemicals and Mines & Metals No. 20/3/67-IOC/Lab. & Legis. (7) dated 
12th May 1969 published under S.O. No. 1932 In the Gazette of India Part II, 
Section 3, Sub-Section (ii) dated 24-5-1069. 

1. At page No. 2012 and at village Scrtha, Taluka Gandhinagar. 


“READ” 


“FOR” 


Survey No- 



Hcct. 

Arc 

P. Arc. 

Survey No. 

Hect. 

Are. 

P.Arc 

1395/4 P- . 


, 

. 0 

5 

61 

1395/4 P- . 

0 

II 

0 

1405/2 A . 



0 

8 

59 

t4°5/2 A , 

. 0 

15 

28 

1395/3 



0 

15 

0 

1395/3 

. 0 

6 

29 

1262/P 



0 

10 

0 

1262 P 

0 

4 

27 

I 395 /I 



. 0 

T 5 

75 

I 395 /I 

. 0 

13 

75 

1260 



0 

14 

61 

1260 

. 0 

9 

61 

1374 



0 

-1 

«5 

1374 . . . 

0 

1 

21 

1270 



0 

8 

28 

1270 

0 

17 

90 

1269 



0 

14 

20 

1269, 

0 

6 

97 


[No. 20/3/67-IOC/Lab.&Legis l ] 
M. V, S. PRASADA RAU, Under Secy. 



Sec. 3<ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4987 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 8 th August 1969 

S. O. 4611. — In pursuance of Section 36 of the Employees’ State Insurance 
Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Annual Report of the Employees’ State Insurance 
Corporation for the year 1967-68 is hereby published for general information. 

List of Members of the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation 1967-68 

Chairman 

Shri Jalsukhlal Hath!, Minister for Labour, Employment & Rehabilitation 
Government of India. 

Vice-Chairman 

Shri S. Chandrasekhar, Minister for Health & Family Planning, Govern- 
ment of India 


Members 

Representatives of the Central Government: 

3. Shri S. C. Jamlr, Deputy Minister for Labour, Employment and 

Rehabilitation, Government of India. 

4. Shri P. C. Mathew, Secretary to the Government of India, Department of 

Labour & Employment. 

5. Dr. K. N. Rao, Director General of Health Services. 

6. Shri A. P. V. Krisbruin, Joint Secretary to the Government of India, 

Ministry of Finance. 

7. Shri N. S. Manklkar, Director General Factory Advice Service & Labour 

Institutes, Government of India. 

Representatives of the State Governments : 

8. Shri A. Krishna Swamy, Secretary to the Government of Andhra 

Pradesh, Home (Labour II) Department. 

9. Shri H. P. Duara, Labour Commissioner, Assam. 

10. Shri R. C. Sinha, Secretary to the Government of Bihar, Labour & 

Employment Department. 

11- Shri S. M. Dudani, Secretary to the Government oi Gujarat, Education 
and Labour Department. 

12. Shri R. I. N. Abuja. Secretary to the Government of Haryana, Labour 

& Employment Department. 

13. Shri C. K. Kochukoshy, Secretary to the Government of Kerala, Health 

and Labour Department. 

14. Shri S. B. Lai, Labour Commissioner, Madhya Pradesh. 

15. Shri V. S. Subbiah, Secretary to the Government of Madras, Industries, 

Labour & Housing Department, 

16. Dr. Raflq Zakaria, Minister for Public Health, Government of 

Maharashtra. 

17. Shri R. Anandakrishna, Secretary to the Government of Mysore, Food, 

Civil Supplies & Labour Department. 

18. Shri Gananath Das, Secretary to the Government of Orissa, Labour, 

Employment & Housing Department. 

19. Shri I. C. Puri, Secretary to the Government of Punjab, Labour and 

Employment Department. 

20. Dr. S. C, Mehta, Director of Medical & Health Services, Rajasthan. 

21. Shri J, N. Tewari, Labour Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh. 

22. Shri M. M. Kushari, Secretary to the Government of West Bengal, 

Labour Department. 

Representative of Union Territories : 

23. Shri S. C. Vajpayi, Labour Commissioner, Delhi. 



4988 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


Representatives of Employers: 

24. Shri R. N. Joshi. 

25. Shri D. P. Mukherjee. 

26. Shri Madanmohan Mangaldas. 

27. Shri G. K. Bhagat. 

28. Shri S. C. Agarwal. 

Representatives of Enployeea: 

29. Shri R. Rengaswamy. 

30. Shri Bishnu Banerjee. 

31. Shri M. T. Shukla. 

32..Smt. Parvathl Krlshnan. 

33. Shri V. B. Karnik. 

Representatives of Medical Profession : 

34. Dr. M. A. Panwala. 

35. Dr. Dinakar Rao. 

Representatives of Parliament : 

36. Shri N. Sreekantan Nair, M.P. 

37. Shri Shankarrao Mane, M-P. 

Director General, EvS.I. Corporation, 

(Ex-Offlolo Member). 

38. Shri T. C. Puri. 

List of Members of the Standing Committee of the E.SJ. Corporation 

1967-68 

Chairman 

Shri P, C. Mathew, Secretary to the Government of India, Department 
of Labour & Employment. 

Members 

Representatives of Central Government : 

2. Dr. K, N. Rao, Director General of Health Services. 

3. Shri A, P. V. Krishnan, Joint Secretary to the Government of India, 

Ministry of Finance. 

4. Shri N. S, Mankikar, Director General Factory Advice Service and 

Labour Institutes, Government of India. 

Representatives of State Governments: 

5. Shri V. S. Subbiah, Additional Secretary to the Government of Madras, 

Industries, Labour & Housing Department. 

6. Dr. Ruflq Zakaria, Minister for Public Health, Government of Maha- 

rashtra. 

7. Shri M. M. Kushari, Secretary to the Government of West Bengal, 

Labour Department. 

Representatives of Employers : 

8. Shri Madanmohan Mangaldas. 

9. Shri S. C. Agarwal. 

10. Shri G. K. Bhagat. 

Representatives of Employeees : 

11. Shri M. T. Shukla. 

12. Shri V. B. Karnik. 

13. Shrimati Parvathi Krishnan. 



Safi. 3(fi)] i A a mso..m a., j . 

Representative ot Medical Profession: 

14. Dr. M. A. Panwala. 

Representative of Parliament : 

15 . Shri Shankarrao Mane, M.P. 

Director General, E.S.I. Corporation. 

16. Shri T. C. Puri. 

List of Members of the Medical Benefit Council 1967-68 
Chairman 

Colonel R. D. Ayyar. Director General of Health Services. 

Members 

Representatives of the Central Government and the Corporation : 

2. Dr. A. S. Sen, Deputy Director General of Health Services. 

3. Dr. J. K. Thanawala, Medical Commissioner, E.S.I. Corporation. 

4. Dr, A. T. M. Abdul Khader, M.B. Ch. B. (Leeds) Director of Medical 

Services, Andhra Pradesh. 

5. Dr. K, N. Brahma, Administrative Medical Officer, E.S.I. Scheme, 

Government of Assam. 

6. Dr. Jagdish Narain Mehrotra, Deputy Director of Health Services 

(Medical) Bihar. 

7. Dr. Mahendra J. Bhatt, Director of Medical Services, E.S.I. Scheme, 

Government of Gujarat. 

8. Dr. P. N. Dugal, Assistant Director of Health Services, Haryana. 

9. Dr, John Kirk Patrick, Administrative Medical Officer, E.S.I. Scheme, 

Kerala. 

10. Dr. R. G. Deshmukh, Administrative Medical Officer, E.S.I. Scheme, 

Madhya Pradesh, 

11. Dr. (Kumari) A. B. Marikar, Director of Medical Services, Madras. 

12. Dr. P, M. Bhandarkar, Suregion-General to the Government of Maha- 

rashtra 

13. Dr. H. Shama Sastry, Director of Health Services, Government of 

Mysore. 

14. Dr. B. M. Nanda, Administrative Medical Officer, E.S.I. Scheme, 

Government of Orissa. 

18. Dr. K. Moti Singh, Director of Health Services, Punjab. 

10. Dr. M. H, Hakim, Deputy Director of Medical & Health Services, 
(E.S.I.) Government of Rajasthan. 

17. Dr, D. N. Sharma, M.D., Director of Medical and Health Services, 

Uttar Pradesh. 

18. Dr. H. Chakraborty. Administrative Medical Officer, E.S.I. (Medical 

Benefit) Scheme, West Bengal. 

Representatives of Employers : 

19. Shri D. P. Mukherjee. 

20. Shri R. N. Joshi. 

21. Dr. C. B. Singh, M.P., F.R.C.S. (Bond.). 

Representatives of Employees : 

22. Dr. G. S. Melkote. 

23. Shri Sumer Singh. 

24. Shri A. B. Bardhan. 

Representatives of Medical Profession : 

25, Dr, H. N. Shlvapuri. 

28. Dr. N, Bhattacharjee, 



'-vi 


' f SIC r AT A GLANCE 


/ / PDQGRES 

Si- $-1966 2 J‘S-1967 31-3-1968 DURING 
/ M957-J961 




STATES / 15 16 1 

CENTRES / 253/ 273/ 300/ 27 

EMPLOYEES / 31,29,400/ 32,12,400/ ’33,91,100/ 1, 78.700] 

FAMILy UNITS / 30,33,900/ 32,86,750/34,99,300/ 2,10,550/ 

INSURED PERSONS / 34,05,000/35,45.000/ 36,84,500/ 1,395 00 
INSURED WOMEN / 2,13,650 2,10,750 2,5 1,900 2 1,150 

TOTAL BENE PI Cl ARIES 1,21,42 65 0 1?0, 16,600 1,22.61550 7,45, 950/ 


EMPLOYEES - 11 

YET TO BE COVERED j 

1 6,37,950/ 

6,35,85 0] 

6,07,150/ 


CASH OFFICES 

406/ 

447/ 

® 478 

O 31 

INSPECTION OFFICES / 

93/ 

10 8 

® 114 

© 6 

ESI HOSPITALS 

14 

19 

® 24 

© 5 J 

ESI ANNEXES 

17 

17 

® 19 

© 1/ 


BEDS ESI HOSPITALS 2,098 2&66 

BEDS ESI ANNEXES / 406 406, 

BEDS RESERVED / 3,403 3,399/ 

BEDS TOTAL / 5,975/ 6. £71/ 

S.L DISPENSARIES / 575/ 6 10 

IM Os A IMPs / 3,463] 5,501 


/ ® 3,997/ © 1.-531 
' © 438/ O ?2j 
® 3,6 88/© 28S 
® 8,1 IS OT 852/ 

0 641 O zi] 
® 5.92s/ O 420 / 


CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION (Rupees m lakhs ) 


SANCTIONED ( UP TO) / 3.079-79/ 3382-7S/ 0 4O4M9/ 0 658 44 
IT CUP TO; / 1,714-01 2059-02 2484-84] 425-82 


SPENT (.UP TO) 


INCOME A OUTGO 


REVENUE INCOME 
REVENUE EXPENDITURE 
(Rupees m LAKHS) 


1965-1966 




SBC- 



ACHIEVEMENTS 


INCRtASE IN 
[NUMBER OF'- 


\1951- 195 6 \ ■ 195 f> - 196l\t961 -196fi\i966-19 6g\ 

\ur PLAnWnd PLAnWcI PUN 1 


I CENTRES \ 31 \ 89\ lV3\ 4^ 

^INSURED PERSONS \il, 91 ,OOQ\ 647 ,O 00 W 66 . 00 O\ 1 , 79 , 500 \ 

i 6 ,' 78 , 550 \l 3 , 55 , 3 S 0 \ 4 . 65,4001 
1 , 92.000 \ 26 , 01 ,0001 & 2 . 49 . 6 $o\ 16 , 19,900 


\W, 


IPAMIty UNITS 
mENEFIClARUeS 

Wash opp\c.es 

\\NSRECTION OPPICES 
IBS 1 HOSPITALS 
itsi ANNEXES 
Hospital elds 
W.LO\SPENSAR»es\ 
i\MOs & \MPs 



E78\ 

1,610\ 

3,487\ 

© %w\ 

98 \ 

136L 


© 6 8\ 

1,7 67', 

1,036\ 

1,0 6 0\ 

© 46o\ 




CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION Q Rupees in Lakhs )\ 


SANCTIONED 

[SPENT 


© \ 

17 - 18 \447-6?\ 2-,6t4*a4\ 961»40\ 

10 • 3-8 \ 64 -0611,619* 67\ 770*8*' 


(j) PROVISIONAL . 





4992 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


INCOME & 

EXPENDITURE (19fi7-6S)' 


CAPITAL CONSTRUCT IOM 

CAS OH 31-3 “68) 























Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTB OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4993 


1, Introduction 

1.1. An important landmark was reached with the enforcement of the pro- 
visions of the E.S.I. (Amendment) Act. 1966 during the year. As a result of 
these amendments, the insured persons are now entitled to Funeral Benefit, 
additional Sickness Benefit on account of sickness arising out of pregnancy, con- 
finement, premature birth of child or miscarriage, as also to the Maternity Benefit 
in case of miscarriage, apart from increase in the rate of Disablement and 
Dependants’ Benefits. 

1.2. This year also witnessed the extension of the Employees’ State Insurance 
Scheme to cover a further 0.68 lakhs Insured persons employed in 27 additional 
centres in the State of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Kerala, Madras, 
Maharashtra, Mysore, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh, details will be found later in 
the Report. 

Medical care was extended to families of insured persons in the following 
areas during 1967-68: — 


State 


Area 

Andhra Pradesh 


. Outskirts of Hyderabad, 

Outskirts of Vizlanagaram, 

Kothavalasa. 

Gujarat 

• 

. Bhavuagar, Morvi, Bhadind and Trajpui 
village. 

Haryana 

• 

lorian village. 

Kerala .... 

“ 

Veliyam, Ummannur, Koratty, Kodumba 
Pullazhy, Pallikkai, Madavoor, Vellallur 
Nagaroor, KHimanoor and Pazhaya- 
kunnumel. 

Madras 


. Sanabali and Mettur villages, Vararanori 
Madras City and suburbs. 

Maharashtra . . , 

• 

. Sangli. 

Mysore . , 

• 

. T. Narsipur, Koilegal. 

Orissa .... 

• 

■ Jharsuguda. 

Uttar Pradesh 


10 villages of Varanasi 

Distt. (Sahupuri), Unnao and 
Magarwara. 


The position in regards to the nature of medical care provided for families in 
various states is as follows:— 

(a) ‘Restricted’ medical care.— Assam, Kerala (except Korattl and Udyog- 

mandal) Madras (except ad Coimbatore and its suburbs, Marfurai 
and its outskirts, Mettur, Tuticorin and Vickramasingapuratn), 
Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, West Bengal (Hooghly). 

(b) ‘Expanded’ medical care.— Andhra Pradesh (except Hyderabad and 

Sirpur Kagaznagar), Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh 
(except Indore), Madras (only Madras and its suburbs), Mysore 
Orissa, Punjab, and West Bengal (only Calcutta, Howrah and 24 
parganas). 

(c) ‘Full’ medical care.— Only at Hyderabad and Sirpur Kagaznagar in 

Andhra Pradesh and Indore in Madhya Pradesh. 


1.3. Five more hospitals were commissioned during the year two in Andhra 

Pradesh— one each at Vijayawada (30 Genl. beds) and Warangal (30 Genl. beds) 
one in Bihar at Maithon (7fl Genl. beds), one in Haryana at Faridabad (80 Genl’ 
beds) and fifth In Uttar Pradesh at Modinagar (100 Genl, beds). There were 



4994 ™ E GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, I989/KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [Part JI - 


therefore, 24 full-fledged E.S.I. 
,details given below: — 

Hospitals working at the close of the 

year 

as per 

SI. N 0 . 

State 


Place 

Date of 
commission- 
Ing 

No. of beds 
G= General 
TB=Tuber- 
culosis 






G 

TB 

(i) 

Mysore 

♦ 

. Bangalore 

29-12-1961 

152 

18 





29-2-1968 

130 

— 

(“) 

Uttar Pradesh . 

. 

. Kanpur 

26-1-1962 

II 2 

— 





27-8-1966 

IOO 

— 

(iii) 

Maharashtra 

• 

. Bombay 

28-3-1962 

642 

— 

,(iv) 

Madras 


. Madras 

1-4-1962 

175 

25 





27-H-1967 

300 

— 

(v) 

Bihar 

. 

Monghyr 

26-1-1963 

30 

— 

(vi) 

Maharashtra 

. 

Worll, 

27-3-1964 



120 




Bombay 




(Vii) 

Andhra Pradesh 

. 

. Hyderabad 

29-3-1964 

150 







1-2-1968 

60 

— 

(viii) 

West Bengal 


. Kamirhati 

29-3-1964 

IOO 






4-12-1965 

75 

— 

(ix) 

West Bengal 


. Sealdah 

17-12-1964 

IOO 

— 





25-7-1967 

150 

— 

(x) 

Andhra Pradesh 


. Sirpur- 

1-1-1965 

30 






Kagaznagar 




(xi) 

Orissa 


Choudwar 

23-3-1965 

50 

— 

(xii) 

West Bengal 


, Bellur-Bally 

15-4-1965 

— 

IOO 

(xiii) 

West Bengal 


. Serampore 

2-10-1965 

166 

— 

(xiv) 

Punjab 


. Amritsar 

1-3-1968 

25 

— 

(xv) 

Madhya Pradesh 


Indore 

15-8-1966 

150 

— 

(xvi) 

Madhva Pradesh 


Indore 

15-8-1966 


75 

(xvii) 

Uttar Pradesh . 


Kanpur 

26-1-1967 

— 

180 

(xviii) 

West Bengal 


Uiubena 

26-2-1957 

166 

— 

(xix) 

West Bengal 


Bankara 

1-2-1967 

300 

— 

(xx) 

Andhra Pradesh 


. Vijayawada 

26-2-1968 

30 

— 

(xxi) 

Andhra Pradesh 


Warangal 

18-3-1968 

30 

— 

(xxli) 

Haryana . 


Faridabad 

15-2-1968 

80 

— 

(xxiii) 

Uttar Pradesh . 


Modinagar 

27-1-1968 

IOO 


(xxiv) 

Bihar 


Maithon 

27-10-1963 

76 

— 





Total . 

3479+518 







“3997 


The bed strength of hospitals at Madras, Bangalore, Worli-Bombay, Hyderabad, 
Sirbur-Kagaznagar, Amritsar, Indore (Genl.), Vijayawada, Warangal & Madthori 
will Ibe raised by 24 , 120, 130, 20, 80, 100, 75, 60, 20 and 24 beds respectively. 

Work in Worli-Bombay (130 beds), Sirpur-Kagaznagar (80 beds— -40 Genl. and 
40 TB beds), Maithon (24 beds), Amritsar (100 beds) and Indore (75 beds) has 
almost been completed and is In progress at Vijayawada (90 beds — 40 TB and 20 
Genl. beds) and WaFangal, (20 beds). Work on 20 T.B, beds at Hyderabad, 120 
beds at Bangalore and 24 TB beds at Madras was not taken up at the close of 
the year. 


* , 3 >i i , A - lh O. 1 l-HA: NOVEMBER 1 J; 1JW/KAHOTKA 24, 1891 4995 


1.4. The following E.S.I. Hospitals 
sanctioned by the Corporation) were 
of the year: — 

(for the construction of which funds were 
in various stages of construction at the close 

SI. No. 

State 


Place 

No of beds 

G«= General 

TB =Tuberculosi8 

(0 

Andhra Pradesh 


ViBakhapatnam 

G 

no 

TB 

(it) 

Andhra Pradesh 


Adoni .... 

50 



m 

Bihar 


. Dalmiarmgar 

50 

10 

(tv) 

Delhi 


Delhi * 

620 


(v) 

Delhi 


. Delhi .... 

— 

304 

(vi) 

Gujarat 


Ahmedabad ■ 

soo 


(vit) 

Gujarat 


. Ahmedabad . 

— 

200 

(viii) 

Haryana 


■ Yamunanagar 

60 



«x) 

Haryana 


. Panipat 

60 



(X) 

Kerala 


. Mulakunathukavu 

— „ 

IOO 

(xf) 

Kerala 


. Asaramam . 

100 



(xii) 

Kerala 


. Alieprv 

55 

_ . 

(xiii) 

Kerala 


. Udyogmandal 

120 


(xw) 

Kerala 


• Tricbur 

60 



(XV) 

Kerala 


Paripally . . ^ 

— 

IOO 

r (xvi) 

Kerala 


Peroorkada • 

50 



( xvii ) 

Kerala 


Vedavathur . 

JO 

. 

(xviii) 

Kerala 


(Kotrayam) 

. Ernakulam . 

50 


( xix ) 

Kerala 


Ezbukone 

150 

_ 

( XX ) 

Kerala 


. Arpookara 


80 

r (xx i) 

Kerala 


. Thottada 

— , 

80 

(xxii) 

Madras 


. Coimbatore . 

475 

25 

( xxiii ) 

Madras 


Madurai 

177 

25 

’ (xxiv) 

Madhya Pradesh 


Ujiain .... 

50 

15 

! (xxv) 

Madhya Pradesh 


. Rajpur 

— 

75 

(xxvi) 

Maharashtra 


Muland 

600 


(xxvii) 

Maharashtra 


. Nagpur 

15° 



(xxvin) 

Maharashtra 


. Anndh 


400 

(xxix) 

Mysore 


Uandeli 

24 


( XXX) 

Punjab 


Ludhiana 

80 



(xxxi) 

( xxxiij 

Punjab 


. Jullundur 

60 


Uttar Pradesh 


Kanpuv 

144 

► 

(> (xxiii) 

West Bengal 


Kalyani 

250 

— 

( xxxiv ) 

West Bengal 


Budge-Budge 

300 



(xxxv) 

West Bengal 


. Gaurhati 

150 

— 




Tot At, . 

4J35 -1- 

1414 

5949 


Construction work was also in various stages in respect of the additional beds 
for the hospitals already commissioned as indicated in para 1.3 ante. 


1.5. In addition, the following E.S.I. Hospitals are already sanctioned but work 


thereon 

has not started so far: — 

General 

TB 

(0 

E-S.I. Hospital, Orma ..... 

no 



(it) 

E.S.I. Hospital, Chelavoor 

— 

80 

(Hi) 

E.SI. Hospital, Kalavoor ..... 

. . 

80 

\ (iv) 

E.S.I. Hospital, South Madras .... 

2 45 

25 

(v) 

E.S.I. Hospital, Mangalore .... 

150 

— 

(vi) 

E.S.I. Hospital, Jaipur * ..... 

113 

■ 

(vit) 

E.S.I. Hospital, Maniktola ... 

400 

— 

(viii) 

E.S.I. Hospital, Kanyapur-Asansole 

, . 

150 


Total • 

. . 1018 

3 J1 




4996 THE GAZETTEl OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 19i /a.AkiixwA it, . 1 I* An i. 1- - 


1.6, 

Plans and estimates for 

construction of the following E.S.I. 

Hospitals were 

sanctioned by the Corporation during the year: — 






Approx. 

No. of bedB 

SI. No. 

State 

Place 

cost 

G = Genera 1 




(in lakhB) 

TB = Tuberculosis 




Rupees 

G TB 

(0 

Bihar 

. Orma 

20 46 

no — 

(»»•) 

Kerala 

Kalavoor 

18 -22 

— 80 

(it i) 

Mysore 

Mangalore 

33-46 

150 — 

(iv) 

Raiasdian . 

Taipur 

23-13 

1 13 — 

(v) 

West Bengal 

Maniktola 

164-86 

400 — 

(vt) 

West Bengal 

Kanyapur- 





Asansole . 

49 ' 61 

— 150 



Total 

3 ii -74 

773 230 


1 , 7 . One more 32 bed E.S.I. Genl. Annexe in Govt. Hospital, Koilpattl was 
commissioned from 30 th March, 1 & 68 . Two Annexes one each at Irwin Hospital, 
Delhi (50 Genl. beds) and S.J.T.B. Hospital, Delhi (30 T.B. beds) reported in 
previous Annual Reports have not 'been taken as these Annexes are owned by 
the Delhi Administration and beds are reserved therein for the E.S.I. Scheme, 
There were, therefore, in all 18 E.S.I. Annexe of the Corporation working at the 
close of the year as per details given below:- — 


SI. No. State 


Location 

Date of 

No. of 

beds 





Commission- 

G=»General 





ing 

TB —Tuberculosis 

I 

2 


3 

4 

5 







G 

TB 

(0 

Andhra Pradesh 


. T.B. Hospital, 






Irramnuma 

5 -t -*959 

— 

24 

CiO 

Maharashtra 

• 

Mayo Hospital, 
Nagpur . 

I-I-1958 

_ 

25 

(Hi) 

Madras 

- 

. Govt. Hqrs. Hos- 
pital, Coimbatore 

1 - 4-1959 

59 

25 

(iv) 

Andhra Pradesh 


KBM Hospital, 
Secunderabad . 


3 * 



(v) 

Madras . . 


Govt. Hospital, 
Sivakasi 

21-1-1961 

12 


(vi) 

Rajasthan . 


. KGV Sanatorium, 






Jaipur 

Dec., 1961 

— 

15 

(vti) 

Mysore 


. SDS Sanatorium, 
Bangalore 

1-4-1962 

. 

3 2 

(viii) 

Madras 


TB Sanatorium, 
Tambaram 

20-8-1963 



52 

’ (ix) 

Kerala 


TB Sanatorium, 
Pulayatiarkottah 

5-1-1964 

, . 

24 

(x) 

Madras 


Govt. Hospital, 
Lalgudi . 

12-3-1964 

10 

_ . 

(xi) 

Orissa 


. ESI Hospital, 
Choudwar 

23-3-1965 


12 

(xii) 

Punjab 


. RJV Kesri Devi 
Sanatorium, 
Amritsar 

1-4-1965 


12 





Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4997 


I 

2 


3 

4 

5 


(xiit) 

Punjab 

* 

TB Sanatorium, 
Dharampur 

1-4-1965 

G 

TB 

12 

(xiv) 

Rajasthan . 


. M.G. Hospital, 

J odhpur . 

25-8-1965 

20 


(*l>) 

Rajasthan . 


. T.B. Sanatorium, 
Bari (Udaipur) 

20-5-1966 

— . 

16 

(wi) 

Rajasthan . 

• 

- M. G, Hospital, 
Bhilwara 

12-3-1966 

12 

— 

(xvii) 

Rajasthan . 


. Banger State 
Hospital, Pali 

15-3-1966 

12 

— 

(xviii) 

Madras 


. Govt. Hospital, 
Koilpatti 

30-3-1968 


— 





Total 

189 + 

249 


-■ 438 


1 . 8 . The following 3 E.S.I. Annexes were nearing completion at the. close of 
the year. 


S. No. Name No. of beds 

Gcnl. T.B. 

(») T-B. Sanatorium , Itki (Bihar) — 20 

(t'i) T.B. Hospital, Nagercoil (Madras) — 26 

(lii) T.B. Hospital, Faiidabad (Haryana) — 12 

Total • • — ;8 


Plans and estimates for construction of the following E.S.I. Annexes were 
sanctioned during the year and work thereon was not taken up so far: — 


SI. No. Name 


(0 E.S.I. T.B. Annexe, Gudiatham (.Madras) . 

(«) E.S.I. Annexe, Cauverynagar (Madras) 

(111) E.S.I. Annexe, Usilampatti (Madras) , 

(iv) E.S.I, Annexe, Mandsaur (Madhya Pradesh) 

Total 


1.9. The position of beds for the use of the insured persons and in due course 
members of their families ip the E.S.I. Hospitals and Annexes commissioned, 
under construction and sanctioned (work yet to start) was as under at the close 
of the year: — 



COMMISSIONED 


UNDER CONSTN. 

SANCTIONED 


Type of 
Projects 

No. of 
Projects 

No. of beds 


No. of 
Projects 

No. of beds. 

No. of 
Projects 

No, of beds 

Genl. 

TB 

Genl. 

TB 

Genl. 

TB 

(a) Hospitals 

24 

3479 

518 

35 

4814 

1624 

8 

1138 

379 

(6) Annexes 

18 


m 

3 

— 

58 

4 

30 

l6 

Total 

42 

3668 

767 

38 

4814 

16R2 

12 

1168 

395 



4435 



6496 



1563 



No. of beds 


Grill. | T.B, 
— 16 

10 ■ — 

10 — 

jo — 

30 : 16 





4998 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/JIARTIKA 24, 1891 [Pakt II— 


1.10. The year under review saw the following 14 full-fledged S.I. Dispensaries 
housed in buildings owned by the E.S.I. Corporation: — 


SI. No- 


State 


CO 

Andhra Pradesh 

(**) 

Gujarat 

(tit) 

Haryana . 

(iv) 

Madras 

(v) 

Madras 

(vi) 

Madras 

( pit ) 

Madras 

( via ) 

Madras 

C ix) 

Madras 

(x) 

Madras 

(*») 

Madras 

(xii) 

Madhya Pradesh 

(, xih ) 

Madhya Pradesh 

(xiv) 

Mysore 


riace 

No. of sanctioned 
Insurance Medical 
Officers 

Kakinada 

3 

Saraspur \ 

Ahmedabad J 
Sonepat 

5 

2 

Udumelpet . 

5 

Kondithope , 

10 

Avadi . 

5 

Paravai 

4 

Pailavaranr . 

to 

Tiruppur I . 

5 

Kunrbakonam 

3 

Kovilpatti 

5 

Lalbagh Ifurhanpur 

3 

Mandsaur . 

2 

Ulsoor 

3 

Total . 

65 


1.11. The Corporation owned 115* commissioned S.I. Dispensaries at the close 
of the year and the same were being manned by 499 Insurance Medical Officers 
(sanctioned). This excludes the S.I. Dispensary in the O.P.D. of E.S.I. Hospital, 
Dalmianagar. 

1.12. The Corporation sanctioned during the year Rs. 566.43 lakhs towards the 
cost of construction of 6 E.S.I, Hospitals, 3 Annexes and 23 S.I. Dispensaries 
including the revision of estimates of the sanctioned State Insurance Projects, 
acquisition of land and purchase of equipment therefor. 

1.13. The following figures indicating the amounts sanctioned by the Corpo- 
ration for capital construction of E.S.I. Hospitals/Annexes/Dispensaries and staff 
quarters may be of some interest: — 

Rupees in lakhs 


Till 

1959-60 







M 3 '47 

During . 

i 960-61 







193-15 

)) 

1961-62 







503 ' 50 

1 1 < 

1962-63 







380-3,5 

D • 

1963-64 







597'76 


T964-65 







512 * 0 $ 

, , , 

1965-66 







526' S7 

, 4 

1966-67 







221 '49 

.1 J 

1967-68 





Total 

. 

566-42 

3645-21 


The total amount sanctioned upto 31st March, 1968 — Hospitals, Annexes, Dis- 
pensaries including equipment and loan was Rs. 37,45,20,849-26. 

1.14. During the year under review, the Corporation disbursed about Rs. 12,60 
lakhs by way of cash benefits; its share of cost of the medical benefits during 
the period was estimated at about Rs. 11,24 lakhs. It is of interest to note that 
the Budget for 1968-69 provides for a sum of about Rs. 12,61 lakhs as the Cor- 
poration's share of medical benefits. 

1.15. The chart ‘ESIC at a Glance’ gives the progress made by the Corporation 
during the year 1967-88' figures have been arranged to show the position as on 
31 st March, 1966, 31st March, 1967 and 31st March, 1908. The progress made in 
respect of certain important features of the Scheme during each of the three plan 
periods and during the period 1966-68 is also indicated in the chart. 


'Includes 6 State Insurance Dispensaries owned by Central Government, 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4999 


2. Progress in Implementation 

During the year under review, the Scheme was implemented In the following 
further areas in the States mentioned below: — • 


Slate 


Place 


Coverage 


Andhra Pradesh 

(djVizianagaram (Outskirts), Kothavalusa . 
TirUpati 

Insured Persons and Fair ilits 
Insured Persons only 

Gujarat 

, Porbandar, Kalol, Nadiad, Jamnagar , 

Insured Persons only 

Haryana 

. Rewari, Ganaur ..... 

Insured Persons only 

Kerala . 

Veliyam, Ummannur, ©Kodumba, @PuIlzhy,l 

Pailikkal, Madavoor, (ffiVcilaliur, (©Nagaroor, f Insured Persons and Families 
Pazhayakunnumel. 

Thodiyoor, Thiruvallam (Balrainpuram) 1 
@Perunad, Kulasckharapuram. | 

(hJKrishnapuram, ©Thazhava, Mynagpally J- Insured Persons only 
(ajThcvaiakkara, @Panmana, 1 

(j^Karunagapally J 

Madras 

@Varuganeri ("included in Triehurapally), ~\ 
(3}MyIcripalayam, @Paravai (Samayanaliur , 
Centre Madurei @Thcnur villages ’ 

(Centre Madurai) J 

Insured Persons and Families 


Uthukuli, Koilpatti, (<z)Tirunclvcli 
(outskirts) . . ’ . 

Insured Persons only 

Maharashtra , 

, Fangli 

Insured Persons and Families 

Mysore 

Nanjangud, Harihar ..... 

Insured Persons only 

Orissa . 

. Kansbahal 

Jharsuguda ...... 

Insured Persons only 

Insured Persons and Families 

Uttar Pradesh 

. ro villages of Varanasi Disft. (Sahupuri), 
Unnno, Magarvara .... 

Insured Persons and Families 


The number of additional employees covered during the year was 61,850 and 
after taking into account the variations in the number of insured employees in 
the areas already implemented, the total number of employees as covered at 
the close of the year stood at about * 3 , 391 , 100 . At the close of the year, the 
Scheme was in force in 300 Centres in all the states and the Union Territory of 
Delhi and Pondicherry. 


3, Extension of Medical care to the families of Insured Persons 

During the year under report, medical care was extended 
family (I.R) units (i.e. about 4 , 69,000 additional beneficiaries) 
States with effect from the dates shown against each: — 

to about 162 , 80O 
in the following 

State 

I 


Area 

2 

No. of Family 
(l.P.) units 
as on 31-3-68 

3 

Date of Extension 

4 

Andhra Pradesh 


Outskirts of 





Hyderabad 

6850 

25-6-67 



Outskirts of 





Vizianagaram 

1450 

30.7-67 



Kothavaiasa . 

550 

25-2-68 

Gujarat . 


. Bhavnagar 

11450 

28-5-67 



Morvi J 





Hhadiad and . 

3IOO 

2S-6-67 



Trajpur Village j 




@Not independent Centres. 

‘Includes about 75,000 employees due lo additional coverage under the E.S.I. 
(Amendment) Act, 1966 . 



5000 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part IT- 


I 

z 

3 

4 

Haryana 

, Jorian village . 

Included in 

Yamun unagar 

25-6- 67 

Kerala , 

, Vcliyam 

L . 


Ummannur 

f . 2050 

24-9-67 


Koratty . 

1900 

16-12-67 


Kodumba 

. Included in Pulghat. 

24-12-67 


Pullazhy 

Pallikkai 

Madavoor 

Veliallur 

Included in Trichur 

I: 

4-2-68 


Najjaroor 
Kllimanoor 
and Pazhaya- 

- . 2350 

10-3-68 


kunnuntal J 



Madras . 

. Sambali and 1 
Mettur villages 

, . 7400 

28-5-67 


Varaganeri 
Madras city 

Included in Trichurapally 

26- xT-67 


and suburbs 

. 1 16600 

27-11-67 

Maharashtra , 

. Sangli . 

. 2100 

30-7-67 

Mysore . 

. T. Narslpnr 
Kollcgal 

1600 

18-6-67 

Orissa . 

. Jharsuguda , 

2050 

31-12-67 

Uttar Pradesh . 

. to villages of 'i 
Varanasi Distt. V 
fSahupuri) J 

tjnnuo and j 

. 1200 

27-8-67 



Magarwara j 

2200 

28-1-68 


Total 

162,850 



After taking into account the variations in employment in the areas already 
covered a total number of family (I.P.) units included for family medical care 
at the close of the year stood at about 3,499,300 (i.e. about 10,078,050 family 
members, excluding the Insured persons), 

4, Extension of Scheme 


The scheme was extended to the following areas in different States on the 
dates indicated against each: — • 


States 

1 

Area 

2 

Date of Extension 
3 

Andhra Pradesh 

Kothavalasa .... 

26-11-67 


Tirupathi . 

17-3-68 


Outskirts of Vizianagram 

30-4-67 

Gujarat , 

. . Porbander. Kalol 

25-2-68 

Jamnagar, Nadiad . 

31-3-68 

Haryana 

. . Rewari, Ganaur 

25-2-68 

Kerala , 

Velivam Ummannur 

26-6-67 

Kodumba .... 

24-9-67 


Pullazhy .... 

Pallikkai, Madavoor, Kilimanoor, 1 

5 - 11-67 


Pazhayakunnummcl, Veliallur y 
&Nagaroor . . , j 

Tiruvalfarn .... 
Perunad, Kulase Kharapuram, "1 
Krishnapuram, Thaghatta, | 

10-12-67 


24-3-68 


Thodiyoor, Mynagapally, > 

Thevalakhara, Panmana, I 

24-3-68 


Kurunagapally , J 




Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 15. 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 


I 

2 

3 

Madras , 

. . . . Varaganerl .... 

Mylcripalayam 

Paraval and Thenur 

T irunel veli, koilpatt i & U tthukuli 

22-8-67 

26-11-67 

31-12-67 

31-3-68 

Maharashtra . 

. Sangli 

30-4-68 

Mysore . 

. . . . Nanjangud .... 

Harihar .... 

28-1-68 

24-3-68 

Orissa 

. . . . Jharsuguda .... 

Kansatoahal .... 

1—10-67 

24-3-68 

Uttar Pradesh . 

. , . . io Villages of District Varanasi. 

Unnao and Magarvvara . 

28-5-67 

29-10-67 

COMMISSIONS, COMMITTEES & CONFERENCES 


5. Corporation 

The E.S.I. Corporation held three meetings on 12 April 1967, 18 November 
1967 and 17 February 1968. Important decisions arrived at these meetings are 
given in Appendix-I. 

6. Standing Committee 

The Standing Committee of the E.S.I. Corporation held three meetings on 11 
April 1967, 16-17 November 1967 and 16 February 1968. Important decisions 
arrived at these meetings are given in Appendix-II. 

7. Medical Benefit Council 

The Medical Benefit Council held one meeting on 12 June 1967. Important 
recommendations of the Council are given in Appendix-Ill. 

8. Regional Boards 

At the end of the year, Regional Boards were functioning in all the States 
excepting Haryana. The number of meetings held by various Regional Boards 
during the year is given below: — 


Name of the Regional Boards Number and date of meeting 


Andhra Pradesh 



3 

24-4-1967, 4-10-1967 and 25-3-1968 

Assam . 



I 

21-6-1967 

Gujarat . 



2 

15-9-1967 and 10-10-1967 

Madhya Pradesh 



I 

14-5-1967 

Madras . 



2 

3-5-1967 and 12-12-1967 

Maharashtra . 



2 

28-6-1967 and 2-3-1968 

Mysore . 


, . 

I 

8-5-1967 

31-5-1967 and 10-2-1968 

Orissa 



2 

Rajasthan 



2 

j-^-1967 and 23-12-1967 

4-5-1967 and 25-1-1968 

West Bengal . 



2 


The Regional Boards in Bihar, Kerala, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh did not meet 
during the year. 


9. Local Committee 

Under Regulation 10-A of the E.S.I. (General) Regulations, 1950, one more 
Local Committee was established at Ahmedatoad in Gujarat Region during the 
period under report. 

At the close pf the year, 126 Local Committees (including one ad-hoc Com- 
mittee in Delhi) were functioning throughout the country. 

10. Employees’ State Insurance Scheme Review Committee’s Report 

The Recommendations of the ESIS Review Committee together with the views 
and comments of the Corporation, State Governments and other interests con- 
cerned and the tentative views of Department of Labour and Employment were 
placed before the Standing Labour Committee at its meeting held In May, 1967. 
The Standing Labour Committee agreed that such unanimous Recommendations 






5002 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


of the Review Committee as had also been accepted by the E.S.I, Corporation, 
should be implemented expeditiously and those which were not so implemented 
might be brought up again before the Standing Labour Committee. The Govern- 
ment of India decided and advised the interests concerned that certain Recom- 
mendations concerning (i) the State Governments only, (M) the ESIC only and 
(ili) both the State Governments and the ESIC, which could be implemented 
without legislation, should be implemented expeditiously. 

The ESIS Review Committee had made, in all, 176 Recommendations out of 
which 115 are such as have been accepted either fully or with modification or in 
principle by the Corporation. Action has already been taken for progressive 
implementation of such of these recommendations as do not require legislative 
changes. 


ADMINISTRATION 

11. Regional Organisation 

15 Regional Offices, 1 Sub-Regional Office, 236 Local Offices, 20 Sub-Local 
Offices, 213 Pay Offices and 114 Inspection Offices were functioning in all the 
States and the Union Territory of Delhi as on 31 March 1968. 

12. Strength of Staff 

The total authorised strength of officers and staff in, the Corporation as on 31 
March 1968 was 6,386 as against 6,285 as on 31 March 1967. The staff authorised 
for various Regions as on 31 March 1968 is shown in Anpendix-IV (Part I). The 
staff authorised for the office of the Directorate (Medical) Delhi, is shown in 
Part II of the said Appendix. 

13. Confirmation of Staff 

The sanction of the Standing Committee to the creation of further permanent 
posts from 1 January 1967 was obtained and further staff confirmed against the 
additional permanent posts. 

14. Principal Officers 

Shrl S. P. Joshi, LA. & A.S. Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer, 
Employees’ State Insurance Corporation relinquished charge of the post of 
Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer with effect from 6 January 1968 
(A.N.) Shri y. R. Natesan M.A., B.L., F.I.A. (London), Actuary, Employees’ State 
Insurance Corporation has been looking after the work of Financial Adviser and 
Chief Accounts Officer in addition to his own duties w.e.f. 6 January 1968 (A.N.) 

15. Publicity 


Several discussion and talks on Employees' State Insurance Scheme in 
different languages were broadcast over various stations of the All India Radio. 
Lectures on various aspects of the Scheme were also delivered by officers of the 
Corporation to the workers at different centres. 


News items and articles giving periodical progress of the Scheme were 
published in many important Newspapers in English and other Regional 
languages. 

A close liaison continued to be maintained with all the parties concerned in 
order to ensure smooth working of the Scheme. Doubts of employers, insured 
persons and Trade Union’s Representatives who approached the Regional Offices/ 
Local Offices, were also cleared. 

16. Appreciation Course on Techniques of Administrative Improvement 

The E.S.I. Corporation deputed Shri K. C. Aggarwal, Regional Director, Mysore 
from 24 July 1967 to 23 September 1967 and Shri S. A. N. Murthi, Regional 
director, Kerala from 1 January 1988 to 2 March 1968 for the Appreciation 
Course on techniques of Administrative Improvement organised by the Ministry 
S°??. e ,^ airs . (Department of Administrative Reforms) at the Indian School 
of Public Administration, New Delhi 

17. Technical Co-operation Scheme of the Colombo Plan 

req . ues * ot . t} ) e Government of Malaysia, the Government of India 
deputed Shri A N. Am/bo, Joint Insurance Commissioner Of the E.S I. Corpora- 
t 5? riod of ° ne year from 4 October 1965, to 3 October 1906 as Govern- 
pw, 1 + ,;f under the Technical Co-operation Scheme of the Colombo 

Government of Malaysia in drafting a Pension Scheme for 
The peri(xi of deputation was extended for 
tmn i Lie ea I f frPm , 4 0ct ober I960 to 3 October 1967. This period of deputa- 

1M9 h b xtended for another two years from 4 October 1967 to 3 October 



Sec. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5003 


STATE WISE COVERAGE OF EMPLOYEES 


ANDHRA PRADESH 


I.19AOO 


















5004 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, I969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


MnSPITHL 



1956 


1961 


1966 


1967 


1968 , 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5005 


COVERAGE 

18 , No. of employees etc. covered (Appendices V and VI) 

Appendices V and VI give particulars regarding coverage under the Scheme- 
About 18,520 factories stood covered under the Scheme as on 31 March 1008 
as against 17,797 a year back. Of these, about 16,762 factories were in the 
implemented centres (300 in number) — the corresponding number last year being 
15,874 and the remaining 1,758 factories in the areas yet to be implemented- 
The total number of employees in the implemented centres was about 33.91 lakhs; 
the number of employees in areas yet to be covered was about 6.07 iakhs. The 
number of insured persons entitled to medical treatment was about 36.85 lakhs 
and the number of family (Insured person) units about 34‘99 lakhs. In all the 
total number of beneficiaries (including the insured persons) entitled to medical 
treatment on 31 March 1968 was estimated at 137 63 iakhs, 

19 . Provision of hospital beds for in-patient treatment 

19 . 1 . During the year 1967 - 68 , 1852 beds were provided under the E.S.I. 
Scheme in different Medical Institutions/ESI Hospitals/Wards/ Annexes, the total 
number of beds provided under the E.S-I. Scheme as on 31 March 1968 was 8,123 
the details of which are given in the Appendix- VII. 

19 . 2 . During the year under report the average recurring cost per bed per 
day of E.S.I. Hospital was as under: — 

Rs. P. 

(t) E.S.I. Hospital, Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh, iio beds) . 1 

(ii) E.S.I. Hospital, Slrpur Kagaziiagar (Andhra Pradc9h, 30 beds) ! Not available 

(iii) E.S.I. Hospital, Warangal (Andhra Pradesh, 30 beds) , r 

(tv) E.S.I. Hospital, Vijaywada (Andhra Pradesh, 30 beds), . J 

(0) E.S.I. Hospital, Monghyr (Bihar, 30 beds) 5-40 

(vi) E.S.I. Hospital, Maithon (Bihar, 76 beds) 2-76 

i(vii) E.S.I. Hospital, Faridabad (Haryana, 80 beds) .... Not available 

( viii) E.S.I. Hospital, Indore (Madhya Pradesh, T50 beds) . . . 12-00 

(ix) E.S.I. Hospital, Indore (Madhya Pradesh, 75 T.B. beds) . . io-oo 

(. x ) E.S.I, Hospital, Madras (Madras, 500 beds) , . , . I 5’43 

KXt) E.S.I. Hospital, Worli Bombay (Maharashtra, 120 T.B. beds) , *2G-05 

(xii) M.G.M. Hospital, Bombay (Mhara9htra, 642 beds) . . . *20-58 

(xiii) E.S.I. Hospital, Bangalore (Mysore, 300 beds) .... 9-90 

(xiv) E.S.I, Hospital, Chouiwar (Orissa, 50 beds) .... Not available 

(atv) E.S.I. Hospital, Amritsar (Punjab, 25 beds) .... Not available 

(xvi) E.S.I. Hospital, Kanpur (Uttar Pradesh, 212 beds) . . . 5-32 

(xvii) E.S.I. Hospital, Kanpur (Uttar Pradesh, 180 T.B. beds) . 5-55 

(xoiii) E.S.I. Hospital M jliiiagJr (Uttar Praissh, too beds) . . Not available 

(xix) E.S.I. Hospital, Ram irhatti (West Bengal, 175 beds) , . . *10-29 

(xx) E.S.I. Hospital, Sealdah (West Bengal, 250 beds) , . . *8-49 

( xxi ) E.S.I. Hospital, Bellur Bally (West Bengal, too T.B. beds) . . *10-36 

(xxii) E.S.I. Hospital, Serampore (West Bengal, 166 beds) . . . *9-22 

(xxiii) E.S.I. Hospital, Uluberia (West Bengal, 166 beds) . . . *2-92 

(xxiv) E.S.I. Hospital, Bankara (West Bengal, 300 beds) . , . 2-64 


♦Indicate approximate cost. 



500 6 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/ltARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


20, State Insurance Dispensaries and Clinics of Insurance Medical practitioners 
(Panel Doctors) 

Arrangements for out-patient medical attendance and treatment in (a) the 
new areas where the Scheme was implemented and (b) in the areas where the 
extension of medical benefit to the families of the insured persons in the imple- 
mented areas was affected during the year 1967-68 were made through service/ 
panel system, For this purpose additional part-time dispensaries and full time 
dispensaries were set up under the Scheme besides utilising the services of 
employer’s dispensaries. 

Particulars in respect of all dispensaries, including part-time Mobile and 
employers utilisation dispensaries, Number of Insurance Medical Officers/ 
Insurance Medical Practitioners, number of approved chemists and medical Stores 
Depots as on 31st March 1968 are shown in Appendix- VIII, 

21, Specialists Services 

The details of specialists available under the ESI Scheme in various States at 
the end of the year under report is given in Appendix-VII (Cols. 13 and 14). 

22. Provisions of artificial limbs to Insured persons 

During the year under report, fifty-three cases were admitted for fitting of 
artificial limbs, In all, 300 insured persons had been or were being fitted or 
refitted with artificial limbs under the Scheme. 

23. Provision of artificial dentures 

During the year under report, artificial dentures free of cost were 
to seven insured persons who lost teeth due to employment injury. In all, 12 
injured persons had been provided with artificial dentures so far under the 
Scheme. 


24. Provision of spectacles 

During the year under report, spectacles free of cost were provided to twenty 
insured persons who suffered from loss of vision due to employment injury. 


PROVISION OF MEDICAI/ BENEFIT 


25. Attendances at dispensaries and hospitals and home visits (Appendix-IX) 

25.1. Statistics of (a) the attendances per annum per 1,000 insured persons 
and also per 1,000 family (insured person) units, (b) the number of home visits 
in respect of insured persons and families and (c) the number of cases referred 
to hospitals for admission and for specialist investigations in respect of insured 
persons are given in this Appendix. These figures are based on returns furnished 
primarily by the dispensaries and panel practitioners. For working out the rates 
of medical attendances, the number of insured persons/family (insured person) 
Units attached to the reporting dispensaries/clinics, suitably adjusted, are deemed 
to be “exposed”. 

25.2. During the year under report, the All India rate of new attendances per 
1,000' insured persons fell from 3,427 in 1966-07 to 3,292; the number of old 
attendances per 1,000 insured persons has also registered a fall from 7,091 in 
1966-67 to 7,950. This year the proportion of old attendances to new has been 
2.41 as against 2.33 experienced in 1966-67. This indicates prima facie that the 
period requiring medical treatment may be comparatively longer, although the 
incidence of Sickness as measured by the rate of new attendances has decreased. 

25.3. The All-India rate of new attendances per 1,000 family units Increased to 
3,327 in 1966-67 to 3,715; the number of old attendances per 1,&00 family units has 
also registered an increase from 6,727 in 1966-67 to 7,869. The proportion of old 
attendances to new has increased slightly from 2.0 during 1966-67 to 2J during 
1987-0-8. Thus there has been an increase both in the Incidence of sickness 
(requiring medical treatment) and the period requiring medical treatment in the 
case of families. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5007 


25.4. This year the pattern of attendances and their duration in respect ol 
families has shown an upward trend when compared with the corresponding, 
pattern and trend in respect of insured persons. 

25.5. The over-all State-wise incidence, during the year, of the combined’ 
“new” and “subsequent” attendances in dispensaries, in respect of insured per- 
sons and their families, is given below. These figures reflect broadly the incidence 
pattern of out-patient treatment in the respective States: — - 


Total No. of visits to 

Total No. of visits to 

State 

dispensaries per 

IOOO 

dispensaries 

per icco 


insured persons 

family ( insured persons) 
Units 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 


1966-67 1967-68 

1966-67 

1967-68 

Andhra Pradesh , 

18,999 

18,128 

24,387 

22,557 

Assam 

9.019 

7,558 

5,663 

4,760 

Bihar 

9.972 

9,765 

16,168 

14,096 

Delhi 

10.320 

9,643 

10,946 

io, 86 l 

Gujarat 

6.769 

12,982 

8,777 

19,273 

Haryana 

, Included in 

9,034 

Included in 

9,282 


Punjab 


Punjab 


Kerala 

12,321 

12,999 

9,499 

10,592 

Madhya Pradesh 

20,964 

19,442 

34,481 

27,554 

Madras 

12.033 

11,746 

13,191 

n,37» 

Maharashtra 





(i) Gr. Bombay 

H.557 

11,116 

5,240 

5,146 

(Li) Nagpur Area 

15,965 

16,034 

22,098 

21,927 

Mysore 

13,226 

11,809 

15,168 

13,582 

Orissa 

9 , 799 

19,879 

8,811 

7,949 

Punjab 

10,259 

10,19 4 

6,326 

9/97 

Rajasthan , 

10,891 

10,933 

13,589 

13,524 

Uttar Pradesh 

9,799 

10,413 

9,267 

9,3i3 

West Bengal 

. . . 10,441 

9,072 

4,017 

7,379 

ALL- INDIA . . 11,419 

IIj 24 l 

10,054 

11,584 


26.6. The total number of home visits in respect of insured persons has gone 
up toy about 1 per cent compared to that in 1966-67; in respect of families the 
increase registered is about 11 per cent. However, the incidence of home visits 
as measured by the number of visits per insured person has shown a decrease. 

25.7. Columns (5) and (0) indicate, State-wise, the number of cases referred 
to hospitals (a) for admission and (b) for specialist investigation respectively. 
The total number of cases referred for admission to hospitals has shown ah 
increase from 73,068 in 1966-67 to 1,03,863 in 1907-68, Similarly, there was an 
increase in the number of cases referred for specialist investigation also. As 
more and more E.S.I, Hospitals are being pressed into service these services 
assume an increasing role. 

26. Sickness Pattern (Appendix-X) 

26.1. Information on the sickness pattern for the country as a whole, expressed 
as the ‘number of new cases per 1,000 insured persons exposed’, is indicated In 
this Appendix for each of the 51 cause-groups, separately for the Insured workers 
and the members of their family. From a comparison with the last year’s figures 
(vide the Appendix) it would appear that the pattern of the incidence of sick- 
ness is almost the same, 

26.2. The incidence rates for all cause-groups taken together is lower in 
1067-68 than in 1966-07, in respect of insured persons whereas a slightly higher 
incidence has been experienced in case of families for every spell in respect of 
an insured person, there has Ibeen this year 1.129 fresh spells in resoect of the 
members of the family of an insured person, as against 0.971 spells in the year 




5008 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


1986-07, It may, however, be observed that the incidence pf morbidity (as 
measured by incidence of new cases) among the family members is much smaller 
than the incidence among the insured persons particularly when it is borne in 
mind that as against one insured person there are 2.88 family members. 

26.3. Cause-group-wise incidence of sickness in respect of insured persons 
bear a close resemblance to the corresponding rates experienced by members 
of the family of insured persons for almost all the diseases listed. However, 
wide deviations in incidence In a very small number of cause-groups only, bring 
■out in high relief the peculiar ailments to which the particular group is com- 
paratively more prone to, 

d!7. Medical Service and Allocation Committees 

The details of the work done by the Committees are indicated in Appendix-XI. 

28. Medical Referees 

At the end of the year the following is detailed statement of full time and 
part-time Medical Referees posted for duties in the respective states. 


Name of the State 


No. of Medical Referees 


X. Andhra Pradesh . 

2. Assam . , 

3- Bihar , 

4- Delhi . . . 

5. Gujarat . , 

6. Harytna 

7. Kerala 

8. Maharashtra 

9. Madras 
J 0. Mysore 

r I , Madhya Pradesh , 
*2. Orissa , . , 

13. Pondicherry 

14. Punjab. . , 

x 5- Rajasthan , 

16. Uttar Pr-iesh 

17. West Bengal. 


Part Time Full Time 


3 


1 


7 

8 
1 
1 

10 

6 

15 


I 

I 

1 

2 

1 

7 

3 

I 


1 

6 


Total 


52 24 


29. Expenditure on the provision of medical benefit — Payments authorised to State 
Governments 

During the year, under report, a sum of Rs, 10,65,95,881.05 paise as detailed in 
Appendix XII was authorised by the Corporation for the payment to the State 
Governments against its share of expenditure on the provision of the Medical 
Benefit under the E.S.I. Scheme. The break-up of the above amount is as 
under: — • 


1. Final payments in settlement and adjustment of accounts for 1964-65 

2. Final payments In settlement and adjustment of accounts for 1965-66 

3. Final payments In settement and adjustment of accounts for 1966-67 

4. Final payments in settlement and adjustment ot accounts for 1967-68 

5. Provisional payments for 1966-67 

6 "On account’’ payments for 1966-67 

“On account ” payments for 1967-68 


Rs. P. 
62,09,879- 51 

88,84,887-84 
15.52,136-41 
34.28.977- 29 
60,57,271-78 
1,27,00,000-00 
6,81,60,000-00 

10,65,95,881-05 


Total 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE QAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5009 


30. Agreement between the State Governments and the E.S.I. Corporation under 
Section 58 of the E.S.I. Act, 1948 


Name of State Government 
S. No. where negotiation is still 

going on for agreement 


( State Government of West Bengal 


2 Statement Government of Gujarat 


3 State Government of Uttar 
Pradesh 


Latest action taken 
or proposed to be 
taken 


State Government has been 
requested to submit final 
draft agreement duly exe- 
cuted by the official aut- 
horised for. 

F.No. 8-2/14/63 Last reminder issued on 4-6- 
(M) 1968. 

Draft deed of agreemant not 
received bb yet. 

F.No. 8-2/t5/63(M) A reminder is under issue. 

State Government has 
not accepted some clauses 
of the agreement which are 
etill under consideration of 

F.No. 8-2/23/68(M) the Corporation. 


4 State Government of Bombay F. No. 8-2/i3/63(M) Draft deed of agreement is 

under examination. 


31. Toga education for Industrial workers 

The Corporation has undertaken the evaluation of usefulness of the Scheme of 
Yogasanas in consultation with Bharat Sewak Samnj, Delhi. Further extension of 
the Scheme will depend upon this study. 

32. Family Planning Programme 

During the year under report, the State Governments have been requested to 
start/introduce the family planning work in the Dispensaries/clinics. 

33. Integrated Preventive and Curative Services 

The Programme of integrated preventive and curative services was also started 
at Kanpur in addition to Delhi and Hyderabad, as approved by the Corporation, 

34. Rationalisation of Forms and Returns 

During the year under report a number of Regulation/Forms/Returns/Registefs 
were taken up for review consequent upon the amendment of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 by the Employees’ State Insurance (Amendment) Act, 
I960. As a result 31 Forms/Registers/Statements have been modified. 

35. Employees’ State Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1966 

Some of the provisions of the Employees’ State Insurance (Amendment) Act, 
1966, which had been enacted with a view to simplify the various lengthy and 
complicated formalities under the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 were 
brought into force w.e.f. 17th June 1967. The remaining provisions of the 
Employees’ State Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1960 were brought into force w'.e.f. 
28th January 1908. 

30. Amendment to the Employees’ State Insurance (General) Regulations, 1950 

With a view to give affect to the provisions of the E.S.I. (Amendment) Act, 
I960, the E.S.I. (General) Regulations, 1950 required substantial changes. These 
amendments were finally adopted by the Corporation on 18th November 1907 and 
thereafter notified In the Official Gazette on 28th January 1968 so as to synchronize 
with the enforcement of the remaining provisions of the E.S.I. (Amendment) Act, 
1066 , 

37. Efficiency In the working of the Local Offices 

37.1. According to the system in vogue from the very inception of the scheme, 
the Local Offices were maintaining a benefit file in respect of easrh insured person 
for making payment of cash benefit under the E.S.I. Act. Experience has shown 
that the system of making payment to insured persons on benefit file was not 



5010 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


working efficiently as sometime the benefit files get lost or misplaced with conse- 
quent delays in payments to insured persons which in turn led complaints from 
them. It was also found that the benefit files required a lot of space and valuable 
steel equipment for their maintenance in Local Offices, With a view to improve 
upon the working of the Local Offices and saving the space. Ledger System for 
making payments to Insured Persons was introduced on 7 December 1967 in ai 
Local Office at Bombay as an experimental measure. This new system has been 
studied closely and it has been found to be working efficiently. In view of t hin 
it has been decided to introduce this system in 6 other Local Offices, 4 of which 
are composite Local Offices and the remaining 2 are Single Employer Local Offices. 
In the next phase albout 16 Local Offices in Bombay and in out-station areas are 
proposed to be brought under the new system which will thereafter be introduced 
in all Local Offices, if the experiment proves successful. The impression gained so 
far as is that this is working well within its limited sphere of enforcement and 
has resulted in expeditious payments to insured persons. 

37.2. The Teller system of payments to insured persons is also under study. 
Under the Teller system of payments it is proposed to effect payment of cash 
benefit to the insured persons straighway by the claim clerk on presentation of 
the claim. With the introduction of the Teller System the efficiency of the Local 
Offices is likely to increase further. 


38. Improvements In the Cash Benefits after the amendment of E S I. Act. 

The following improvements in the Standard of cash Benefits have been effected 
by enforcement of the provisions of the E.S.I. (Amendment) Act, 1966 with effect 
from 28th Januaryi 1868. 

(1) Sickness Benefit. — The contributory conditions for entitlement to sickness 
benefit has been simplified and now an insured person qualifies for sickness benefit 
on payment of only 13 weekly contributions In the corresponding contribution 
period of 26/27 weeks. 

(2) Maternity Benefit. — The scope of maternity benefit has now been enlarged 
and maternity benefit is also payable in case of miscarriage for a period of six 
weeks immediately following the date of miscarriage. Further in case of sickness 
arising out of pregnancy, confinement, premature birth of child or miscarriage, 
additional maternity benefit for an additional period not exceeding one month is 
payable. In the event of death of the insured woman during confinement leaving 
behind a child, the maternity benefit due to her is payable to her nominee. 

(3) Disablement and Dependants’ Benefit. — The rate of disablement benefit has 
been enhanced and is now 25 per cent more than the Standard Benefit Rate (Sick- 
ness Benefit Rate). In fatal employment injury cases, the minor dependants shall 
now remain entitled to dependants’ benefit until attaining 18 years of age without 
any condition and in case of infirm dependants till the infirmity lasts. 


(4) Funeral Benefit. — A new benefit in the shape of a grant upto a maximum 
amount of Rs, 100 to meet funeral expenses in respect of the deceased insured 
person has been provided. 


39. Commutation of periodical payments of Permanent Disablement Benefit into 
lump-sum. 

So far, under Regulation 76-B of the E.S.I. (General) Regulations, 1950, com- 
mutation of small periodical payments of permanent disablement benefit was 
permissible to insured persons where disablement had been finally assessed and 
who had been awarded permanent disablement benefit at a rate upto 50 paise a 
day. During the year under report, Regulation 76-B of the E.S.I. (General) Regu- 
lations, 1950 has been amended so that insured persons whose permanent disable- 
ment benefit have been assessed as final, in terms of Regulation 73 of the E.S.I. 
(General) Regulations, 1950 and who have behn awarded permanent disablement 
benefit at a rate not exceeding Re. 1 per day can now apply for commutation of 
the periodical payments of permanent disablement benefit into one lump-sum. 
This amendment was necessitated by the fact that periodical payments @ Re, 1 
per day do not provide adequate economic security. The amendment has come 
into operation with effect from 6th April, 1968. 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 50II 


INSURED 
PERSONS & 
BENEFICIARIES 


s RNSURED 
PERSONS 

r — | FAMILY 
' 1 MEMBERS 



u 

3 Z 

r" X- > 


TOTAL beneficiaries 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, I969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 IPari II 


N2& AMOUNT OF CASH BENEFIT PAYMENTS 


*0 i* 


( RUPEES 'H LAKHS) 


8,8 1,628 HM 1056 '61 H 1M ■ 66 
19,14.45* MMIMO' 61 Bi 


J6.19.54J | 


40,90,564 I 


*5 61,3-JJ 


1965-661 


1 1961-881 


1,113- 91 


CASH BENEFIT 
PAYMENTS 


AMOUNT 

PAID 


PAYMENTS I 
PER ANNUM 
PER 

EMPLOYEE 1 1966 -51 



AMOUNT PAID _z.„ ■ 

PER ANNUM ■ M ' ss III 

PER | 11 4 9 | [ [ | 

EMPLOYEE 1 1956-57 I 1960 - 6 ? I 1065 - 66 1968-67 1967-68 














Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5013. 


CASH BENEFITS 
(Appendix XIII and XIV) 

40. Number of cash benefit payments (col. 4 of Appendix XIII) 

40.1. Cash benefits are paid at the Local/Sub-Local/Pay Offices set up by tha 
Corporation In different areas. The number of such Offices was about 478 on 31 
March 1968 as against 447 a year earlier. 

40.2. The total number of cash benefit payments made in each State during the 
years 1966-67 and 1967-68 is shown in column 4. In all about 45.68 lakhs pay- 
ments (including 6,285 claims relating to lump-sum payments in respect of requests 
for commutation of permanent disablement claims) were effected during the year 
1967-68. These were about 4,73 lakhs more than those during the preceding year. 
On the average, about 3.81 lakhs payments were effected every month as against 
3,41 lakhs payments during 1966-67, The number of payments per employee 
during 1967-68 works out to 1.43 as against 1-34 during 1966-67. 

41. Sickness Benefit (cols. 3 and 6 to 8 of Appendix XIII). 

41.1. As a result of the implementation of the benefit provisions of the Scheme 
m new centres between 1 July 1966 and 30 June 1967 and also due to the increase 
in employment in the already implemented areas, an additional 1,40,850 employees 
became eligible for sickness benefit during the year under report. The total 
number of employees entitled to claim sickness benefit during 1967-68 is estimated - 
at 31.92 lakhs as against 30.61 lakhs last year (vide column 3). 

41.2. During the year, an amount of Rs. 838,53 lakhs was paid as sickness cash 
benefit os against Rs. 706.04 lakhs in 1966-67. The rise is principally due to (i) 
the increase in the coverage, (ii) the increase in the incidence of sickness benefit, 
as measured by the average no. of benefit days per annum per employee, and also' 
(111) the rise in the average amount of daily rate of benefit per employee, 

41.3. The average number of fresh spells per employee increased from 0.88 in- 
1966-67 to 1.01 in 1967-68; further, the average number of benefit days per annum' 
per employee also has shown an increase from 7.7 in 1966-67 to 8.2 In 1967-08. 
The amount of daily rate of benefit per employee has registered an Increase from 1 
Rs. 3.01 to Rs. 3.22 due, perhaps, to an increase in the average wage-rate of the 
employees as also presumably to a shift in the Incidence of sickness in relation to 
wage-groups, Thus we find that during the year, the sickness benefit rate as 
measured by the average amount paid per annum per employee has registered an 
increase, there being an increase in all the components leading to this rate, 

41.4. As in the preceding years, this year also indicated wide variations among 
the States interse in respect of incidence and duration of sickness benefit claims.. 
The Director General has, however, Ibeen keeping continuous watch over the 
duration of sickness claims at various centres. The relevant statistics received" 
at the Headquarters every month, are analysed periodically, and any abnormal 
variation in the trend is taken up with the Regional Directors and the Administra- 
tive Medical Officers with a view to enable them to take suitable and prompt 
remedial measures whenever necessary and wherever possible, 

42. Extended Sickness Benefit (cols. 9 and 10 of Appendix XIII). 

42.1. Insured Persons suffering from certain specified diseases e.g. tuberculosis, 
leprosy, mental and malignant diseases etc. (in all 15 diseases) are eligible for- 
extended sickness cash benefit at a rate equal to full sickness benefit rate, for a 
period of 309 days In addition to the 56 days of sickness benefit. 

42.2. For the year 1 1967-68 a sum of Rs, 82.94 lakhs was paid to insured persons 
on this account as against Rs, 04.87 lakhs in the previous year. The increase is 
mainly accounted for by an increase in the number of claims due to increased 
coverage and also increase in the average duration and daily rate of benefit claims. 

42.3. The incident of extended sickness benefit claims expressed as the number 
of claims per 1,000 employees exposed to risk and also the duration of terminated 
claims are shown for the year 1967-68 and 1966-67 in column 9 and 10. These 
rates have shown a comparative increase during the year. 

43. Maternity Benefit (cols- 11 and 12 of Appendix XIII). 

43.1. The number of women employees eligible for maternity benefit has 
Increased from 2,02,200 in 1966-67 to 2,20,000 in 1967-68, The total amount paid 




3014 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part li- 


as maternity claims was Rs. 40.54 lakhs as against Rs. 37.55 lakhs in 1966-67, The 
average amount of cash benefit per maternity claim has increased from Rs, 267 in 
1966-67 to Rs. 273 and this is possibly due to an increase in the average wages 
as also to a shift in the incidence of confinement vis-a-vis wage groups. 

43.2. The number of claims per 1,000 insured women employees has decreased 
from 69.5 in 1966-67 to 67.4 in 1967-66 due possibly to variations in the age and 
marital status composition of the female employees; presumably the family 
planning drive also may have contributed to the decline. 

44. Temporary Disablement Benefit (cols. 3 to 0 Appendix XIV) 

During the year 1967-68 the number of employees covered for disablement 
and dependant’s benefit was 32.81 lakhs as against 31.60 lakhs during 1960-67 
(vide col. 3). The sum paid as temporary disablement benefit during 1967-68 was 
Rs. 93-20 lakhs as against Rs. 80.43 lakhs In 1986-67. The average number of fresh 
spells, the number of benefit days per annum per employee and the average daily 
benefit rate are 0.05, 0.91 and 3.1 li respectively as against the corresponding figures 
of 0.05, 0.92 and Rs. 2,77 in 1966-67 (vide columns 4 to 6). The average duration 
per spell has decreased from 18.80 to 17.08. As In the last year, this year also 
recorded variations in different States in the incidence and duration of these 
claims. The incidence was high in Madras, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal, 
while the duration of claims continued to toe high in West Bengal and Madhya 
Pradesh. 

45. Permanent Disablement Benefit (cols 7 to 10 of Appendix XIV) 

45.1. The number of fresh cases admitted during^ the year 1967-68 was 8,553 as 
against 7,4Q1 during the previous year. The incidence per 1,000 insured employees 
was 2.61 as against 2.34 in 1966-67 thus registering an increase. The States of 
West Bengal, Gujarat, and Delhi have experienced a comparatively high incidence. 

45.2. The number of claimants on the Fund increased from 19,353 at the begin- 
ning of the year to 22,543 at the end (vide column 10). The actual amount dis- 
bursed as benefit was Rs. 95.41 lakhs (including the commuted lump sum of Rs. 
50.88 Xgkhs) as against Rs, 71.80 lakhs (including the commuted amount of 
Rs. 38.30 lakhs) in 1966-07. 

45.3. The capitalised value of Permanent disablement benefit claims in respect 
of fresh cases admitted during the year was 149,61 lakhs as against Rs. 120.53 lakhs 
In 1960-07. The permanent Disablement Benefit Reserve Fund stood at Rs. 490.73 
lakhs at the close of the year, the corresponding amount at the beginning of the 
financial year being Rs. 415.92 lakhs. 

45.4. The number of claimants to permanent disablement benefit who had opted 
for receipt of commuted value in lieu of periodic payments has increased from 
4,148 in 1966-6.7 to 5,285 in 1967-08. 

46. Permanent Disablement Benefit Claim (Appendix XV) 

46.1. Analysis of the 8,553 cases of permanent disablement admitted during the 
year was made according to (a) the main groups of industry and (b) the incidence 
of claims per 1,000 employee exposed industry-wise. As in the last year, the 
highest number of accidents was recorded in “textile industry” followed at a 
distance by "engineering” and "metallic minerals”. The incidence is rather high 
In "metallic minerals”, “textiles” and “engineering” and low In "food beverages 
and tobacco” “non-metallic minerals”, "paper and printing” and "chemicals and 
chemical products”. From a comparison of the corresponding incidence for the 
year 1908-67, It appears that the Incidences in "chemicals and chemical products”, 
"non-metallic minerals” and "textiles” have gone up significantly this year; the 
Incidences in "Food Beverages and Tobacco” and “Paper and Printing” have how- 
ever, gone down. 

40.2. The average degree of permanent disablement experienced was 10.97 per 
cent as against 12.07 per cent for the last year. The largest number of accidents 
occurred this year also in the sixth wage-group, i.e. between the daily wages of 
Rs. 4 and 6. 

46.3. The number of permanent disablement cases that arose among women 
employees is only 88, Expressed as a rate of incidence per women employee, 
this is significantly low presumably because women are not generally employed 
on hazardous occupations, duties etc. 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5015 


47- Dependants’ Benefit (cols. 11 and 12 Appendix XIV) 

47. 1. The number of fresh claims admitted for dependants’ benefit during the 
year under review increased from 262 in 1966-67 to 279 (vide columns 11 and 12). 
Compared to the previous year the incidence is slightly higher. 

47.2. The total number of dependants admitted during the yeaT was 771 and 
the category-wise distribution of all the dependants at the beginning and end of 
the year is as follows: — 


Description 



As on 31 March 

1967 

1968 

Widow . 

, . . . 


1.439 

1.679 

Son and Daughter . , 

. 

• 

2.546 

2.947 

Father , 

• . 

. . * 

ii4 

129 

Mother . , , . 

• • • 

• ■ * 

193 

216 

Other Dependant Children , 

. . , 

■ ■ « 

124 

132 

Total , 

• « ■ 

1 a ■ 

4.416 

5}t°3 


„ 47,3, The amount paid as dependants’ benefit has increased from 11.94 lakhs in 
1966-67 to Rs. 14.19 lakhs in 1967-88. The capitalised value in respect of 
dependants’ benefit claims admitted during the year was Rs. 31.61 lakhs as against 
Rs. 32,29 lakhs in 1966-67, The Dependants’ Benefit Reserve Fund stood at 
Rs. 186.47 lakhs on 31 March 1968 as against Rs, 160.36 lakhs on 31 March 1967. 

48. Income from Contributions 

The rates of employers' special contribution and employees' contribution 
continued to be the same as in the previous year viz. 2J per cent of wages for the 
Implemented areas, 3|4 per cent of wages for the non-implemenled areas as 
employers’ special contribution and approximately 2} per cent of the wages as 
emloyees’ contribution. The total amount collected during the year was 
Rs. 13,04,00,900 as employers’ special contribution and Rs. 12,44,28,143 as employees’ 
contribution as against Rs. 12,93,37,103 and Rs. 11,50,80 309 as employers’ special 
contribution and employees’ contribution respectively collected during the previous 
year. 

49. Mode of Collection of Contributions 

The mode of collection of contributions employers’ special contribution and 
employees’ contribution remained unchanged, 18 new licences were issued during 
the year under report for the use of franking machine for franking contribution 
cards. One licence Was cancelled and the total number of licences issued till the 
end of the year was 488 as against 469 at the end of the last year. 

50. Inspection 

During the year under report the progress of the inspection work continued to 
be under close watch of the Headquarter Office. The Inspectors continued to 
provide guidance and training to employers and their staff in maintaining records 
and complying with the various provisions of the E.S.I. Act and Regulations. 

At the end of the year there were in all 158 Insurance Inspectors. The total 
number of Inspections carried out during the year 1907-68 was 19,517 as against 
17,685 during the year 1960-67, 

51. Employees' Insurance Courts 

A list of the E.I. Courts set up during the year under Section 74 of the E.S.I. 
Act, 1948 in the implemented areas is given on next page. 



5 oi 6 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [Part IT— 


EMPLOYEES* 

INSURANCE COURTS SET UP UNDER THE EMPLOYEES STATE 
INSURANCE ACT 

Name of State Areas for which E.I. Court set up 

Presiding Officer of the Court 
on whom the power to act as 
E.I. Court has been conferred. 

I 

2 

3 

Gujarat , 

. Municipal limits of Bhavnagar town 
Taluka Bhavnagar, Distt. Bhavnagar 

Judge. 


Municipal limits of Morvi town, 
Taluka Morvi District Rajkot. 

Judge. 

Haryana , 

, Gurgaon 

Subordinate Judge, 1st Class, 
Gurgaon. 


Rohtak and Bahadurgarh . 

Subordinate Judge, 1st Class, 
Rohtak, 


Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri 

Sub-Divisional Officer, Bhiwani 


Ambala and Pinjore 

Subordinate Judge, ist Class 
Ambala. 


Faridaba d, Mathura Road (Faridabad ) 
and Ballabhgarh 

Subordinate Judge, Ballabh- 
garh. 

Maharashtra 

, The areas within the Municipal limits 
of Nanded, comprising of the revenue 
village of Kasha Nanded, Mouja 
Assadullabad, and Mouja Vazirabad 
and the Survey No. 8,9,44/1,50,52, 
60/1,60/2, 60/3 and 60 , /4of Mouja 
Brahmapuri in the Taluka and Dis- 
trict of Nanded 

Civil Judge, Senior Division, 
Nanded. 


The limits of Kolhapur Borough 
Municipality in Kavir Taluka, Distt, 
Kolhapur. 

Civil Judge, Senior Division 
Kolhapur. '■ 


Area within the limits of Sangli Muni- 
cipal council in the Taluka Mira), 
District Sangli in the State of Maha- 
rashtra. 

Civil Judge, Senior Division, 
Sangli. 


r. Area within the limits of Greater . 
Bombay Municipal Corporation 

Commissioner, for Workmen’s 
Compensation, Bombay. 


2. Area within the limits of Thana, 
Kalyan, Bhiwandi and Bassein Talu- 
ka a of the Thana District. 


Mysore . 

. Anekonda, Nittuvalli Chik-Kanahally 
and Averagere 

Presiding Officer, Labour Court 
Hubli. 

Orissa 

. Village of Mathembeda Barbil in 

Tehsil Champakpur, P.S. Barbil in the 
District Kaonjhar. 

District Judge, Mayurbhanj- 
Kaonjhar. 

Punjab 

. Abohar ...... 

Bahadurgarh , 

Sirhind ...... 

Goraya & Phillaur 

Khanna ...... 

Sub-Judge. Fazilka. 

Sub- Judge, Patiala. 

Sub- Judge, Ainloh" 

Sub-Judge, Phagwara. 
Sub-Judge, Samrala. 

Uttar Piadcsh . 

, Churk, Arauli, Mu ahi in Pargana 

Barhar, Tehsil Robertsganj in District 

of Mirzapur S.D.O. Robertsganj. 

Areas within the Municipal limits of The Additional District Magis- 
Ghazipur. trate (Judicial), Ghazipur. 





Sec. 3(ii>] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5017 


52. Legal Action 

The amount involved in respect of court cases instituted during the year as 
also the amount recovered under various sections of the E.S.I. Act, is shown 
region-wise in Appendix XVT. 

BUDGET AND FINANCE 

53. Financial and accounting arrangements 

53 1 The Revised Estimates for the year 1967-68 and the Budget Estimates for 
the" year 1968-69 were adopted by the Corporation at its meeting held on 17 
February 1968 and approved by the Central Govrnment on 14 May 1908.* 

53,2, The audit of the accounts of the Corporation has been entrusted by the 
Central Government, in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General of 
India, to the Accountant General, Central Revenues. The latter conducts the 
audit through the respective State Accountants General acting as Sub-Audit 
Officers. The consolidated Audit Report is prepared by the Accountant General, 
Central Revenues. The consolidated Audit Report for the year 1905-60 on the 
accounts of E.S.I. Corporation was forwarded by the Accountant General, Central 
Revenues to the Central Government on 28 June 1967. The Audited Accounts 
for the year 1965-68 were laid on the Tables of the Lok Sabha and Raiya Sabha 
on 15 and 10 February 1968 respectively. The consolidated Audit Report for the 
year 1C 66-67 is still awaited from the Accountant General. Central Revenues. 

54. Banking Arrangements 

Three new Banking accounts were opened during the year for Regional and 
Local Offices of the (Corporation with the branches of the State Bank of India. 
Four accounts of the Local Offices and Sub-Local Offices of the Corporation were 
closed due to downgradation of these Offices. The total number of bank accounts 
with State Bank of India, its subsidiaries and United Commercial Bank Ltd., stood 
at 304 as on 31 March 1968. 

Arrangements for the sale of Employees’ State Insurance Contribution Stamps 
were made with additional 10 branches of the State Bank of India and its sub- 
sidiaries during the period under report, The total number of branches handling 
the sale of contribution stamps was 288 as on 31 March 1908. 

55. Investme»ta 

There was a deficit of Rs. 41 lakhs during the year 1967-68. As such expendi- 
ture on Capital Account amounting to Rs. 447.11 lakhs incurred during the year 
was met out of the accumulated reserves of the previous years. Further, invest- 
ments of accumulations in the various reserve funds were also made by trans- 
ferring securities from the General Cash Balance. The net decrease in total- 
investment amounted, therefore, to Rs, 294.62 lakhs (approx,) only. The total 
investment (including the investments relating to various Reserve Funds) as on 31 
March 1963 stood at Rs. 16,48, 01,654*21 against Rs. 19,42,04,011*17 In the beginning 
of the year. 

Details of the investments are shown below: — 


As on 1-4-1967 


Rs. P. 

Securities of Central and State Governments in 

India ........ 14,57,31,63°* 17 

12 Years Postal Certificates , . . 74,24,000 ■ 00 

Fixed Deposits with the State Bank of India, New 

Delhi. ....... 4,11,08,380-00 

Total: . . , 19,42,64,011-17 


As on 31-3-1968 
Rs. 


13,03,59,574*21 

7,32,23,000-00 

2,71,19,780-00 

16,48,01,654-21 


*Thesc were laid on the Tables of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on 25 and 
26 July, 1968 respectively. 



5018 the GAZETTE of INDTA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part It— 

INCOME, EXPENDITURE & SURPLUS 


R* %4 69 

Ri.lVlO 

6f 

Ri.14B-73 
»Ri.2,4b «7 

- ft*. 100-41 







Sec. 3(ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5019 

ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURE 


PERCENTAGE Of RUPEESPER Rupees PER 

TOTAL BENEFITS INSURED CASH BENEFIT 

(exCLUCHNGMEO .BENEFIT) EMPLOYEE PAYMENTS 

















5020 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTTKA 24, 1891 [Part II- 


56. Income and Expenditure Account and Balance Sheet 


The Income and Expenditure Account of the Corporation for the year 1966-67 
is given in Appendix XVII. 

The Balance Sheet of the Corporation as on 31 March 1967, as certified correct 
by the Auditors of the Corporation, is given in Appendix XVIII. 

The Income and Expenditure Account for the year 1967-68 and the Balance 
Sheet of the Corporation as on 31 March 1968 are given in Appendices XIX to XX. 
These are still to be audited by the External Auditors, 


57. Relative Cost of Administration 

The statement at Appendix XX shows the relative cost of administration since 
the year 1953-53. The statement below shows the comparative cost of administra- 
tion per insured employee during the last four years from 1964-65 to 1967-68, 


1964 - 65 

1965 - 66 

1966 - 67 

1967 - 68 


Rs. 7-07 per insured employee 
Rs. 7 -43 per insured employees 
Rs. 8 • 29 per insured employee 
Rs. 8-75 per insured employee. 


Definitions of the terms ‘Employee', 'Insured Persons’ and ‘Beneficiaries’ 

(a) The number of ‘employees’ as on a specified date is the estimated number 
of effective posts in the factories covered under the Scheme, This would broadly 
represent the average number of employees per day employed by the factories 
round about that date and normally may not vary significantly from the number 
of employees actually employed on that date. It should, however, be noted that 
the actual number of persons who have occupied a particular sanctioned post 
during a period may be more, in as mush as a leave reserve or badli worker may 
have officiated temporarily during absence, leave etc. of a regular worker. 

(b) The number of ‘insured persons’ on any date indicates for purposes of this 
Report, the number of persons who may be deemed to be entitled to medical 
benefit on such date. Further, the number of 'insured perso^is’ on any day would 
normally be in excess of the number of 'employees’ as on that day because, under 
the eligibility conditions for medical benefit under the Act, the persons entitled to 
medical benefit on any day would compromise not only the persons actually 
employed on that day but also the ex-employees, who by virtue of the contribu- 
tion conditions during the period earlier to that would be entitled to such benefit 
on that date. 

(c) The total number of ‘beneficiaries' on any date represents all the persons 
who may toe deemed to be entitled to medical benefit under the Scheme on that 
date. It comprises the ‘incured persons’ and where medical benefit has been 
extended to families of insured persons, the number of their families. The total 
number of members of the family of 'insured persons’ (not including the insured 
person) Is arrived at by assuming an average of 2.88 members for each ‘insured 
person*. 


APPENDIX I 

Important decisions taken by the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation during 

the year 1967-68 


(i) 12 April 1967 

1. It decided that dental clinics may be established at the E.S.I. Hospitals 

with a bed strength of 50 or more and at the Diagnostic Centres 
where possible. 

2. It accepted the proposal to the expansion of training programme of nurses 

and Auxiliary midwives. 

3. It decided to appoint a Sub-Committee to consider raise of Employers’ 

Special Contribution. 

(ii) 18 November 1967 

1. It accepted the recommendation of the Sub-Committee to increase the rate 
of Employers’ Special Contribution in implemented areas to 3 per cent 
of the total wage Bill with effect from 1st April 1968. 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KAKTIKA 24, 1891 5021 


2 . It decided that repair/replacep.ent of artificial teeth supplied by the 

Corporation in Employment Injury cases may. be allowed at the sole 
cost of the Corporation and also decided to the replacement of glasses 
in Employment Injury eases where there is subsequent change in the 
power of lens, 

3. It agreed to the provision of medical care in the E.S.I. Medical Institutions 

to non-covcred employees of the covered undertakings in sparce areas 
where no other medical arrangements for non covered employees exist 
and their families on payment. 

(iii) 17 February 1968 

1. It decided to appoint a Sub-Committee to review the financial position of 
the E.S.I, Corporation. 


4FP1NDIX n 

Important decision taken by the Standing Committee during the year 1967-68 
17 November 1967 

It decided that domiciliary conveyance allowance of Re. 1 per visit may be 
paid even where the total number of visits is less than 10 in a month, 
to full-time as well as part-time Insurance Medical Officers. 


APPENDIX III 


Important recommendations of the Medical Benefit Council during the year 1967-68 
12 June 1967 


(i) A nominal charge of 15 padse should be charged for the new empty 
bottles issued to the beneficiaries. 


(ii) Repair/replacement of artificial teeth at the sole cost of the Corporation 
if the artificial teeth had been in use for a period of 5 years and needed 
repair/replacement due Jo wear and tear. 

(Ill) Rehabilitation Programme under the E.S.I. Scheme might be started at 
Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and Kanpur. The State Government might 
be requested to send necessary proposals in this respect. 

(iv) A store-keeper should be provided in a dispensary where stock and 
equipment worth- more than Rs, 20,000 were held. 


(v) For less than 10 visits per month, domiciliary conveyance allowance at 
a flat rate of Re. 1 per visit might be paid to full time and part-time 
Insurance Medical Officers all over the Country. The existing scale 
in this respect should remain the same for 10 or more domiciliaTv 
visits. * 


fvi) A sub-committee consisting of the following members was constituted to 
go into the question of diseases to be included for the grant of 
Extended Sickness Benefit: — B 

Dr. C. B. Singh Chairman 

Dr. P. M. Bbandarkar Member 


Dr. H. N, Shivpurl Member 

Dr, J. K, Thanawala Member 


(vii) It recommended the proposal of the Government of Madras to provide 
eacsum unit and deep X-ray Therapy Unit in the Employees’ State 
Insurance Hospital, Madras. 



5022 THF. GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part IT— 


APPENDIX 

PART 

ESIC Staff authorised as on 


Designation of posts 

Hqrs. Andhra 
Pradesh 

Assam 

Bihar Delhi Gujarat Kerala 


RO LO 

RO LO RO LO RO LO RO LO RO LO 

I 

2 3 4 

5 6 

7 8 9 to II 12 13 14 


1. 

Director General 

I 

2. 

Insurance Commissioner. 

I 

3. 

Medical Commissioner. 

I 

4- 

F.A.&C.A.O. 

I 

5. 

Actuary. • 

I 

6 . 

Principal Eng, Officer. • 

I 

7. 

Director of Administration. ■ 

I 

8. 

J.I.C./R.D. Grade . ■ 

X 

9. 

Officer on Sp . Duty. • 

I 

10, 

R.D. Grcde II. ■ 

. — 

11, 

D.I.C./A.O./R.D. Gr. Ill • 

3 

12. 

Dy. Chief Accounts Officer. • 

1 

13. 

Dy. Medical Commissioner. ■ 

5 

14. 

R.D. Gr. IV/A..I.C./Dy. A.O. 
D.R.D./Asst. Actuary. 

8 

15. 

Asstt, Medical Commissioner. 

2 

16. 

Medical Referee. • 

— 

17. 

A.A.O. .... 

3 

18 . 

A.R.D, /Manager Gr, I/S.O./ 
Dy. A.A.O. 

21 


i 



19. P.S- to D.G. 

20 . Ins. Inspector/Audvt Inspector/ 

Mgr. Gr.II/Dy. Manager. 

21. Personal Assistant, 

22. Assistant/plead Clerk 

23. Technical Asstt. ■ 

24. Artist. 

25. Care Taker. 

26. Receptionist. 

27. Librarian. • 

28. U.D.C. l/C/TJDC-Cashier/UDC59 

29. Stenographer. • • ‘15 

30. L.D.C./Adrema Operator / 83 

Telephone Operator. 


— 6 it 


9 

54 

1 

1 

I 

1 

1 


18 

1 

42 


36 


37 


I 


1 


1 


3 

1 

5 






3 5 5 7 2 11 14 it 17 

— 5 1 4 4 <5 7 7 


9 15 15 20 16 44 7 25 5 

— 1 — 1 ■ — 2 — 1 — 

3 30 13 41 23 103 58 64 69 


3 1 - 

32- 
33. 
34- 

35. 

36. 

s 

39. 

40. 

4 1 . 

42 . 


Computor. • 

3 

— 

— 

— 

— 


— 

' 



* 

— 

- 



Staff Car Driver. 

' I 



— 1 

— 

— 





I 


* 1 


Gest. Operator. 

I 



— ■ 

— 

— 


— 




— - 

" — ' 

— 

— 

Junior Lib. Attendant. • 

I 

— 

- — 

— 




— 

— 

— 

— 

— 


■ 

Record Sorter/Daftry ■ 

• 19 

8 

13 

I 

3 

8 

8 

10 

9 

23 

25 

14 

27 

Jamadar. 

■ I 

— ' 

— 





— 

— 

— 






Peon. 

■ 53 

8 

18 

4 

' ' 

9 

7 

9 

8 

19 

27 

12 

28 

Chowkidar. 

3 

I 

— 

1 

— 

I 

— 

1 

’ 

I 

' — • 

I 

— 

Farash, 

7 

I 

— 



— 

I 

— 

1 

* 

2 


1 


Sweeper. 

8 

2 

— 




1 


I 

— ’ 

2 

“7 

I 

— “ 

Liftman. 

' — 

— 

— 


' 

— 




— — 

“ 

b— 1 



Mali. 

' 




— 

’ " 


— 

' 

” * 


1 

" 

“ " 



Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA >4, 1891 5023 


IV 


31st March 1968 


Madhya Madras Maha- Mysore Orissa Punjab Rajas- Uttar West Total 
Pradesh rashtra than Pradesh Bengal 


O LO RO LO RO SRO LO RO LO RO LO LO RO LO RO EO RO LO 


15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 


I 



— 



1 — 

— 



1 — 

— 

— 

— 

— 

■ — - 

— 

— • 

■ — 

— 

1 — ■ 

— 

— 

I 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

■ — 

— 

* 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— * 

— 



— 

— 

— 

I 

— 

— ■ 



— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

* — 

— 

— ' 


— 

* — * 

— 

— 

I 

— 

— 



— • 

— 


• — 

— 


— 



— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

' 

— 

I 

' — 


— 

— 

— 



— 

- — 

* * 



— 

— • 

— 

— 

— 

• ' 

— 

— 

1 — ■ 

I 

— 

— - 

■ 

— 

— 

* 

. — 

— 

— 

— 

* 

— 

— 

— ■ 

—4 

— 

— 

— 

— 

r 

— 

— 

- 

— 

I 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— . 

— 

— 

— 

— 

I 

— 

— 

3 

— ■ 


I 




■ — ■ 

— 




_ 


T — . 

. 


I 



— ~ 

1 — 

1 

3 

I 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

1 

— 

— 

— 

1 

— 

— 

— 

— 

-- 


— 

9 

1 

— 

— 


~ 

6 

— 

— 

1 

— 

I 

— 

1 

— 

I 

— 

2 

— 

6 

— 

3 

34 

. — 

— 

. 

— 



— 

— 

— . 






— 



, 

, 

— 







2 

I 

— 

4 

— 1 

12 

' 

1 — 

2 

1 

T 





— 

T 

I 

I 

— 

— 

— 

3 

— 

TO 

— 1 

40 

I 

2 

4 

4 

7 

T 

24 

2 

— ■ 

— 

— 

I 

-- 

3 

3 

10 

19 

US 

5 

9 

19 

2 5 

39 

— 

36 

8 

12 

2 

4 

12 

1 1 

3 

4 

12 

16 

42 

30 

I 

382 

1 

5 

4 

I 

*3 

13 

T 

33 

2 

2Q 

I 

s 

2 

2 

I 

I 

8 

— 

5 

— 

I 

12 

3 

I 

3 l 

32 

20 

312 

I 

-- 


— 

— 

1 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

2 

I 

I 

1 9 

29 

5* 

93 

12S 

fi 

178 

28 

4 r 

6 

7 

30 

22 

13 

17 

47 

4 1 

133 

161 

1412 

T 

— 

4 

— 

8 

I 

— 

2 

■ 

I 

— 

2 

— . 

I 

— 

3 

* 

9 

— 

54 

42 

34 

r 26 

106 

304 

11 

278 

66 

39 

13 

8 

62 

r8 

25 

TO 

101 

48 309 

250 

2421 

3 

— 

- 

1 

I 

— 

I 

E 

E 

1 

l_ ’’’ 


E 


“ 

— 

— 

I 

I 

_ 

I 

I 

1 

S 

5 

1 

IO 

IS 

2 S 

49 

5i 

3 

1 02 

H 

18 

3 

3 

15 

T 2 

7 

II 

24 

26 

69 

88 

72 1 

— 

— ■ 

— , 

— 



— 

— - 

— 

< 



- — 

• — 

* — 

— 

* — - 

— 

— 

■ — - 



I 

9 

T 4 

20 

49 

46 

3 

92 

12 

24 

5 

5 

12 

17 

6 

8 

17 

3 1 

50 

88 

710 

1 

— 

3 

— • 

3 

1 

< — 

I 

— 

I 

■ — 

2 

— * 

1 

— 

2 

• 

4 



2S 

J 

— 

2 

■ — 

2 

1 

— 

I 

* 

1 

— ■ 

1 

— 

1 

— 

1 

— 

5 


29 

T 

— 

3 

— 

4 

— 

1 

I 

— 

I 

— 

1 

— 

I 

— 

— 

— 

8 

1 

— 

3* 

— . 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— ■ 

— 

a*- 



— 

— 

. — 

— . 

— 

— 

I 

— 

, 

I 


Totai. : 


6386 



5024 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part H— 

APPENDIX IV 
PART II 

Statement showing the position of Staff Authorised an la position la respect of the 
Director's Office and E.S.I, Dispensaries bb otil^ist March, 1968. 


Director's Office E.S.I, Dispen- Total 

saries. 


S . Designation of posts. 

No* 

Autho- 

rised 

in 

position 

Autho- 

rised 

In 

position 

Autho- 

rised. 

In- 

position 

1. Director Medical. 

* 

I 

1 

— 

— 

I 

1 

2. Admn. Medical Officer 

• 

I 

1 

— 

— 

I 

I 

3- Dy. Accounts Officer. 

• 

I 

1 

— 

— 

I 

I 

4. Asstt, Accounts Officer (M). 

• 

I 

1 

— 

— 

I 

I 

5 - Ins. Medical Officer Gr. I. ■ 

• 

— 

— 

107 

99 

107 

99 

<5, Ins. Medical Officer Gr. II. 


— 

— 

3 

3 

3 

3 

7. Audit Inspector. 

• 

X 

i 

-t 

— 

I 

l 

8. Head C'erks. 

• 

6 

6 

— 

— 

6 

6 

9. P.A. To Director (M) 

• 

I 

I 

— 

— 

I 

1 

10. Upper Division Clerks. 

■ 

22 

22 

18 

17 

40 

39 

n. Stenographers. • 

• 

2 

2 

__ 

— 

2 

2 

12. U.D.C, Cashier. 

• 

I 

1 

— 

— 

I 

I 

13. Lower Division Clerks. 

■ 

29 

29 

68 

66 

97 

95 

14. Pharmacists. 

■ 

— 

— 

106 

80 

106 

80 

15. Social Guide. 

• 

— 

— 

3 

I 

3 

I 

16. Nurse./A/B/Gradc. 

• 

— 

— 

4i 

37 

4 1 

37 

17. Nurse/Midwife. 

• 

— 

— 

28 

26 

28 

2 

18, Lady Health Visitor ■ 


— 

— 

28 

27 

23 

27 

19. Dai. .... 

■ 

— 

— 

26 

22 

26 

22 

20, Lab. Tech. 

■ 

— 

— 

24 

16 

24 

16 

21. Radiographer • 


— 

— 

2 6 

X 

I 

I 

22. Drivers. 


— 

— 

2 6 

4 

4 

4 

23, Daftriesi. • 


4 

3 

— 

— 

4 

3 

24. Gestetnnr Operatoor. ■ 


I 

I 

— 

— 

I 

I 

25. Peons.. .... 


9 

8 

5 J 

47 

64 

55 

26. Dresser, .... 


— 

— 

57 

52 

57 

*)2 

27. Ayas. .... 


— 

— 

38 

37 

38 

37 

28. Ambulance Attendant. 


— 

— 

3 

2 

3 

2 

29. Sweepcr/swcepress. 


— 

— 

76 

76 

70 

76 

30. Chowkidars. 


— 

— 

26 

24 

26 

24 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5025 


APPENDIX V 

Number of Factories and Employees covered under the Ei S.I. Act 
Durlngi 967-68 STATE-WISE 


State 

Implement Area 

Non-Implemented Area All Areas 


No. of 
Factories 

No. of No. of 

Employees Factories 
as on 

31-3-68 

No. of 
Employees 
as on 
31-3-68 

No. of No .of 
Factories Employees 
as on 
31-3-68 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

Andhra Pradesh 

517 

1,07,700 

36 

7,700 

553 

1,15,400 

Assam .... 

136 

10,550 

37 

17,650 

173 

28,200 

Bihar 

305 

58,000 

133 

1,05,700 

438 

1,63,700 

Delhi .... 

801 

91,000 

— 

— 

801 

91,000 

Gujarat , , 

966 

2,79,100 

627 

1,20,850 

' L593 

3,99,950 

Kerala .... 

852 

1,40,900 

2 * 

12,800 

854* 

1,53,700 

Madhya Pradesh 

343 

95,050 . 

IOI 

57,000 

444 

1,52,050 

Madras 

1,623 

3,24,700 

211 

33,500 

1,834 

1 3,58,200 

MaharashTa . 

4)iz4 

8,07,600 

276 

63,000 

4,400 

r 8,70,6oo 

Mysore 

565 

1,68,000 

99 

20,100 

664 

r, 96,100 

Orissa 

98 

29,100 

39 

26,Roo 

137 

55,900 

Punjab, Haryana, 

Himachal Pradesh and 

Chandigarh 

1,676 

1,74,35° 

30 

9,850 

1,706 

1,84,200 

Rajasthan 

281 

57,900 

32 

4,700 

3i3 

62,600 

Uttar Prades , 

i,254 

2,45,050 

37 

23,350 

1,291 

2,68,400 

West Bengal . 

3,221 

8,02,100 

98 

96,150 

3,3i9 

8,98,250 

ALL- INDIA (1968) 

16,762 

33,91,100 

1,758 

6,07,150 

18,520 

39,98,250 

ALL-INDIA (1967) 

15,874 

32,12,400 

1,923 

6,35,850 

87,797 

38,48,250 


no; inriud _■ about 23 Cash ;\v factories exempted upto ‘A Day’ 





5026 THE GAZETTE OF INDTA; NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


APPENDIX VI 

Number of Centres, Employees, Insured Persons Family (Insured Person) Units and 
Beneficiaries covered as on 31 3-1968 — STATE-WISE 



State 

No of No. of 

Centres Employees 

No. of 
Insured Persons 

No. of No. of 

Family Beneficiaries 
(Insured 

Person) units 


r 

2 3 

4 

5 9 


Andhra Pradesh . 

33 

1,07,700 

1,15,000 

1,14,300 

4,44,200 

Assam .... 

5 

io,55° 

12,500 

12,50 

48,500 

Bihar ..... 

17 

58,000 

63,500 

63,500 

2,46,400 

Delhi 

1 

91,000 

1,19,000 

1,19,000 

4,61,700 

Gujarat .... 

11 

2,79,100 

3,16,000 

2,85,850 

11,39,250 

Kerala. .... 

45 

1,40,900 

1,50,000 

i-37,35o 

5,45,55° 

Madhya Pradesh , 

15 

95,050 

1,01,000 

r,oi,ooo 

3,9F90o 

Madras .... 

32 

3,24,700 

3,36,500 

2,04,650 

9,25,900 

Maharashtra , . , 

9 

8,07,600 

8,28,500 

1,8,28,500 

32,14,55° 

Mysore 

13 

1,68,00 

1,78,500 

1,73,050 

6,76,9004 

Orissa .... 

10 

29,100 

32,5°° 

31,000 

1,21,800 

Punjab, Haryana, 






Himachal Pradesh and 






Chandigarh 

34 

N74,35° 

1,79,000 

1,76,100 

6,86,150 

Rajasthan .... 

15 

57,900 

68,500 

68,500 

2,6;,Sco 

Uttar Pradesh 

34 

2,45,°5o 

2,65,500 

2,65,500 

10,30,150 

West Bengal;! . , . . 

26 

8,02,100 

9,18,500 

9,18,500 

35,63,800 


ALL-INDIA (1968) 

300 

33,9i.,ioo 36 , 84 , 5 °° 

34,99,30° 

1,37,62,550 

ALL-INDIA (1967) 

273 

32,12,400 35,45,000 

32,88,750 

130,16,600 



APPENDIX vn 

Number of beds, Specialists and Ambulances as on 31-3-68 




Number of beds provided 


E.S.I. Hospitals Annexes Other Hospitals Total Specialists 


cs) 7 

State 

Gene-Mater- T. B. 
ral nity 

Gen- 

eral 

Mater T.B. 
nity 

Gene- 

ral 

Mater-T.B. 

nity 

Part Full- 
Time Time 

Am- 

bu- 

lances 

Remarks 

1 

2 

3 4 5 

6 

7 8 

9 

10 ir 

12 13 14 

15 

16 


1 

Andhra Pradesh . 

, , 

300 



25 

7 

24 

So 

43 

3S 

317 

14 


8 

2 

Assam 








6 

7 

11 

24 


2 % Out of 30 beds, 5 

3 

Bihar 

% 30 4-76 






36 


18 

160 

2 


17 beds viz. 4 for families 

4 

Delhi 


* , 






SO 

_ . 

90 

170 

23 


3 of insured persons and 

5 

Gujarat 

„ 







190 

32 

249 

471 

141 


3 one for non- insured 

6 

Haryana 

. 


So 




12 

43 


I- 

147 

35 


2 persons are being utilise . 

7 

Kerala 







24 

128 

72 

96 

320 

90 


2 on payment ol reservation 

8 

Madhya Pradesh . 


15° 


75 




I 16 

T I 

86 

438 

77 

6 

6 charges by the Employer. 

9 

Madras 

, 

475 


25 

99 

14 

77 

1 12 

44 

174 

J020 

87 

23 

14 

10 

Maharashtra 

(a) Gr. Bombay 


642 


120 




137 

£ 

535 

1434 

S9 

12 

12 14 Plospitals /Maternity 


(b) Nagpur Area 







25 


JO 

15 

108 

n 

I 

j Homes recognised for con- 


(c) Western Maharashtra 




. . 

* . 

64 


48 

U2 

23 

2 

2 finement of insured wo- 

ir 

Mysore 


272 

10 

is 



a -> 

47 

1 6 

39 

434 

29 

3 

man @ Rs. 52-50 per 
confinement if the stay 

8 is less than 7 davs & 

12 

Orissa 


44 

6 




12 



62 

5 


Rs. 60 /- if the stay is more 

13 

Pondicherry 





. . 



T 2 

2 

9 

23 



than 7 days. 

14 

Punjab 

, 

25 





J 2 

69 


17 

123 

45 


4 

15 

Rajasthan . 





44 


31 

6 

1 


£2 

10 


I 

16 

Uttar Pradesh 


312 


1 So 







492 


TO 

3 

17 

West Bengal 


io 57 


IOO 


-- 


341 

2 

5S3 

2083 

*302^ 


10 ‘These are specialist sUnils 



TOTAL 

3383 

96 

518 

168 

21 

249 

1525 

240 

2020 

8220 

98 8| 

57 

98 


Sec. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5027 



APPENDIX Vltt 

No. of State Insurance Dispensaries, Panel Doctors etc. as cm $1-3-1969 


SI. 

No, 




Dispensaries 


Total number of 
l Insurance Medi- 
cal Officers 

Total Total No, 

number of doc- Approved Che- 
of Insu- tors in mists/Med. 
ranee Employ- St ores /Depots 
Medical ers Dis- 1 

Practi- pensaries 
doners 

Remarks 

otate — 

Full 

Time 

Part 

Time 

c Mobile 

Empl- 

’Oyers 

Total 

Sanc- 

tioned 

Present 

7 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

I 

Andhra Pradesh . 

54 

2 


I 

57 

140 

135 


2 

iMed. Store 


2 

Assam 

9 


, . 


9 

11 

IO 

. . 


1 Med. Store 


3 

Bihar 

25 


14 


39 

82 

75 

. . 

• . 



4 

Etelhi 

18 

5 


, , , 

23 

115 

107 

. , 


1 Med. Store 


5 

Gujarat 

60 


1 

. . 

6l 

191 

187 

136 

. . 

14 Chemists 













8 Medical Stores 


6 

Haryana 

15 



3 

18 

39 

22 

25 

6 

14 Chemists 













2 Medical Stores 


7 

Kerala 

60 

II 

4 

3 

78 

142 

137 



1 Medical Store 


S 

Madhya Pradesh . 

43 



I 

44 

137 

109 

4 

3 

15 Chemists 


9 

Madras 

67 

3 

8 

IO 

88 

260 

230 

51 

23 

6 Medical Stores 


IO 

Maharashtra 













(a) Gr. Bombay 

2 



3 

5 

5 

2 

1743 

. . 

109 Chemists 













7 Medical Stores 



( b ) Nagpur . 

16 


I 


17 

50 

50 

4 


3 Chemists 













r Medical Store 



(c) Sholapur . 

. 5 


2 

I 

8 

17 

8 

230 

3 

19 Chemists 













2 Medical Stores 


II 

Mysore 

40 

4 


8 

52 

171 

97 

27 

29 

4 Medical Stores 


12 

Orissa 

12 


•2 


14 

27 

19 



1 Medical Store 

Ambulance Van 













mobile dispensary. 

13 

Pondicherry 

4 




4 

IC 

9 


► - 

1 Medical S tore 


14 

Punjab 

13 


. . 

. . 

13 

34 

22 

86 


3S Chemists 













x Medical Sthre 


15 

Rajasthan 

20 


4 

I 

25 

57 

52 

. . 

2 

12 Chemists 


16 

Uttar Pradesh 

73 


9 

. » 

S2 

120 

113 

. * 


2 Chemists 













1 Medical. Store 


17 

West Bengal 



.. 

4 

4 

-• 


1795 

17 

281 Chemists 



23 Medical Stores 


TOTAL 536 25 45 35 641 1618 1373 4101 85 507 Chemists 

61 Medical Stores II I 


5028 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KAKTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II 



APPENDIX IX 


Incidence of Dispensary Attendances, References to Hospitals and No* of Home Visits during 1966-67 
and 1967-68 — STATE- WISE {In respect of Insured Persons and their Family Members) 



State 


Period 



Insured Persons 

Family (I. P.) Units 






No. of Attendances 

Per iooo Insured 
Persons per annum 

No. of Cases referred No. of 

to Hospital for Home 

Visits 

No. of Attendances 

Per 1000 Family (I T.) 
Units per annum 

No. of | 
Home 
Visits 





New 

Cases 

Old 

Cases 

Admission Specialists 

investigation 

New Old 

Cases Cases 




I 

2 

3 

4 

5 67 

8 9 

IO 


Andhra Pradesh 

. CSS) 

Assam 

(SS) 

Bihar 

(SS) 

Delhi 

CIS) 

Gujarat 

CSS) 

Gujarat 

CPS) 

Haryana & 

Chant igarh 

(SS) 

Haryana & 
Chandigarh 

CPS) 

Kerala 

CSS) 

Madhya Pradesh (SS) 

Madras 

CSS) 

Madras 

CPS) 


1966-67 

3=365 

15,634 

973 

41,876 

12,842 

6,076 

18,311 

16,038 

1967-68 

3.152 

14,975 

1,028 

44,426 

I 5 , 73 i 

5,807 

16,749 

20,595 

1966-67® 

3.249 

5,770 

61 

2 A 37 

1,956 

2,595 

3,068 

231 

1967-68* 

2,996 

4,563 

84 

1,396 

4,315 

2,280 

2,480 

146 

1966-67 

2,839 

7 d 33 

1,671 

10,117 

8,633 

5,283 

10,885 

6,309 

1967-68 

2,921 

6,843 

2,041 

11,068 

8,007 

4,882 

9,214 

8,183 

1966-67 

1,183 

9 T 37 

1,131 

12,301 

12,089 

3,536 

7410 

22,774 

I967-6S 

1, hi 

8,531 

1,145 

15,871 

12,752 

3 , 55 i 

7 , 3 io 

27,168 

1966-67 

1,578 

5,341 

i,S26 

42,874 

29,191 

1,894 

6,916 

12,186 

1967-68 

1.729 

12,008 

7,132 

67,368 

6,861 

2,998 

17,346 

8419 

1966-67 

3 d 93 

2,786 

594 

15,110 

3,081 

4,693 

3,94 

2,448 

1967-68 

4,045 

4,871 

1,043 

15,627 

2,656 

6,819 

6,635 

2,857 

t piAA-At ~ 







1 ^ 




ui 1 ui 





1967-68 

2,440 

5,644 

4,621 

6441 

4,884 

2,515 

5,741 

7,983 

T - 



»FtPllrfN inrhlHwl in P"llnia 1 ~i fP.Si'i ■ 




1 1 . 



ig “i to iii ah uiiw ui t unj du ^ 




1967-68 

5,033 

8,750 

r,7ii 

ZO408 

3,783 

54228 

9,034 

2,661 

1966-67 

2,82-5 

9,496 

5417 

13,858 

16,984 

2,326 

7473 

2442 

1967-68 

3,304 

9,695 

4,997 

14,049 

16,348 

2,913 

7,679 

1424 

1966-67 

2,719 

18,245 

3,253 

55,896 

12,563 

8,176 

26,305 

10412 

1967-68 

2,621 

16,820 

3,767 

50,652 

12,928 

6,807 

20,747 

11404 

1966-67 

2,463 

9,213 

14,876 

87,693 

454 

3 , 43 i 

9,355 

2,677 

1967-68 

2,361 

9,142 

16,216 

1,07,510 

1,172 

2,982 

8,084 

3455 

1966-67 

4, 08 8 

9,112 

7 A 57 

23,105 

MOi 

64208 

12,728 

298 

1 967-6 8 

3,8oo 

8,918 

6,974 

22,055 

1425 

6,860 

12,795 

263 


ui 

o 

K> 


Sec, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 



r 


2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

Maharashtra 











C 0 Bombay GR (SS) 

1966-67 

886 

7,497 

6,4 32@ 

349 

2 

804 

5,9H 


. . 


1967-68$ 

1,442 

6,063 

19,279! 

230 


1,976 

5,667 


W Bombay Or. (PS) 

1966-67 

4,617 

6,962 

i,ti8 

99,811 

19.121 

2,312 

2,917 

4,750 



1967-68 

4,573 

6,567 

i, 5I7 

1,03,514 

18,758 

2,27 s 

2,851 

6,668 

'dtii igpur Area(SS) 

1966-67 

2,687 

t 3,744 

1,766 

10,986 

i5,47i 

4,590 

18,114 

3,145 



1967-68 

2.437 

14,251 

i,445 

23,263 

15,776 

4,248 

18,879 

3,742 

iSagpur Area^PS) 

1966-67 

4.598 

5,660 

80 

t,°37 

39 

6,487 

7,367 

9 

Mysore 

(SS) 

i967-68£ 

4,530 

5,643 

87 

866 

113 

5,540 

5,985 

25 

1966-67 

4,697 

8,529 

6,315 

36,620 

17,552 

6,210 

8,958 

9,991 

Mysore 


1967-68 

4,227 

7,837 

6,302 

37,850 

14,860 

5,881 

8,377 

7,093 

(PS) 

I966-67 ■ - 




Figures included 

in Mysore (SS) 











Orissa 

CSS) 

1967-68 

3,261 

5,651 

393 

3,7-15 

818 

2,841 

3,164 

770 

1966-67 

2,258 

7,54i 

1,041 

3,030 

7,121 

3,242 

5,569 

MU 

Punjab 

(SS) 

1967-68 

3,373 

6,505 

839 

5,635 

4,775 

3,816 

4A33 

1,257 

1966-67 

2,961 

6,808 

1,8:4 

12,323 

9A94 

2,854 

6,306 

6,827 

Punjab 

(PS) 

1967-68 

3,838 

8,672 

324 

4,328 

2,099 

3,650 

6,887 

847 

1966-67 

4,639 

6,429 

5423 

15,542 

20,746 

4,796 

6,358 

2,873 

Rajasthan 

(SS) 

1967-68 

4,055 

88 

10,685 

6,762 

15,339 

4,515 

4,670 

1,942 

1966-67 

2,592 

8,299 

i,944 

16/365 

3,550 

3,873 

9,716 

1,850 

Uttar Pradesh 

(SS) 

1967-68 

2,600 

8,383 

2,125 

18,810 

2,960 

3,662 

9,862 

i,5i9 

1966-67 

2,498 

7,302 

3,482 

36,382 

3,076 

2^(86 

6,781 

15,806 

West Bengal 

(PS) 

1967-68 

2,647 

7,767 

4,433 

87,368 

5,127 

2,413 

6,899 

17,882 

1966-67 

4,539 

5,902 

6,894 

76,316 

79,2io 

2,542 

i,475 

26,694 



1967-68 

3,867 

4,204 

5,675 

93,826 

1,04,472 

4,681 

2,698 

30,591 

ALL-INDIA 

1966- 67© 

1967- 68 

3M27 

3,292 

7,991 

7.950 

73,068 

1,03,863 

6,13,728 

7,52,841 

2,74,276 

2,75,919 

3,327 

3,715 

6,727 

7,869 

M9,57i 

1,66,094 


] 


©Figure s brough t upto dale . 

•Figures for September, 67 to March, 68 not received; weighted average taken. 

S Figures for November, 67 and March, 68 not received; weight ed average taken. 

£Figures for March, 68 not received; weighted average taken. 

fDoesnot indude cases referred to hospital for admission undergeneralandmateraitytreatmentfortbe months of January 
to March, 68. 

SS-Service System; PS— Penel System. 


5030 THE G AZE TTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KART1KA 24, 1891 [Part II- 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5031 

APPENDIX X 

Incidence of Morbidity i.e. number of new cases per jooo I.Ps. and 1000 Family (I.P.) 

Units 1966-67 and 1967-68 — ALL-INDIA 


■Cause 

Group Disease 

No. 


Insured Persons 

1966-67 1967-68 

Families 

1966-67 1967-68 

I 

2 


3 

4 

5 

6 

1 

T. B. of respiratory system .... 


i 4'5 

12- 8 

12-0 

12- I 

2 

T. B. other forms ..... 


5 ' 1 

6'2 

5-8 

6-9 

3 

Syphilis and its sequelae .... 

t 

;-o 

43 

2-4 

1-9 

4 

Gonococcal infection^ ..... 


7'9 

7-2 

4-0 

4-1 

5 

Dysentery , all forms] ..... 


247‘4 

246 - 1 

20J-4 

243-3 

6 

Cholera, Enteric fever, other infective diseases arising 
in intestinal tract ...... 

158 

18-9 

22 - 5 

30-2 

7 

Scarlet fever, Dipthcria, Whooping Cough, Measles, 
Mumps, Chicken-pox ..... 

13-4 

l6 -2 

36-6 

45-0 

8 

Typhus and other rickettsial diseases 


0-5 

0-7 

J -4 

0-9 

9 

Malaria . 


17-6 

15-2 

15-3 

i 3 -i 

10 

Filariasis, AnkylosTomiasis and other Helminths 


36-1 

36-6 

64-2 

72-5 

II 

All other diseases classified as infective and parasitic. 

50 '3 

46 • 

66-o 

69-2 

12 

Malignant neoplasms all sites] 


0-4 

o-ti 

o*6 

1*0 

13 

Benign neoplasms all sites .... 


1-2 

T *2 

o-8 

o -7 

14 

Allergic disorders , 


80 -3 

So- 6 

77-6 

88-8 

T 5 

Diseases of Thyroid gland 


i -7 

J ’ 7 

2 1 0 

2* I 

16 

Diabetes mcllitua ..... 


4-8 

4-1 

33 

3-4 

17 

Avitaminosis and other deficiency states . 


143 -i 

I 4 I .7 

127-3 

149-6 

18 

.Anaemias ....... 


93-1 

9 i 5 

117-8 

131-7 

19 

Psychoneuroses and Psychoses 


2'3 

2 ■ 6 

2-5 

3-2 

20 

Vascular Lesiones C. N. S. , 


0-7 

06 

0-5 

o-6 

21 

Diseases of eye ...... 


103-2 

106 ■ 1 

108 -3 

125*0 

22 

Diseases of car and Mostoid process 


44-7 

44-5 

69-6 

75-8 

23 

Rheumatic fever 


II'I 

123 

11-5 

10*9 

24 

Chronic Rheumatic heart diseases 


I’ I 

0-9 

I I 

i -3 

25 

Arteriosclerotic and degenerative heart diseases 


0-9 

o -7 

0 5 

0-6 

26 

Hypertensive diseases 


5-8 

5’4 

5'4 

6-3 

27 

Diseases of Veins ...... 


9-2 

8-9 

6 l 

6-3 

28 

Acute nasopharyngitis (Common Cold) . 


304-1 

296-0 

292-8 

332-6 

29 

Acute Pharyngitis and tonsillitis 


99-0 

95-3 

ii 4'3 

124 * I 

30 

Influenza 


248-0 

215-5 

208-7 

203-0 

31 

Pneumonia ...... 


II-I 

8 * 2 

17-4 

x8-2 

32 

Bronchitis ....... 


274-6 

2689 

288-6 

316-6 

33 

Silicosis and occupational pulmonary fibrosis , 


1.0 

09 

1*0 

I'l 

34 

Other respiratory. ..... 


47-2 

49 ' J 

44-9 

54-4 

35 

Diseases of stomach and duodenum 


154-1 

139 •; 

II 2 .I 

126-0 

36 

Appendicitis .... 


i-8 

2.0 

i-6 

1-9 

37 

Hernia of abdominal cavity 


2.4 

2 ' I 

I'l 

2'I 

— , 

_ . 








5032 THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA: NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part H— 



I 2 


3 

4 

5 

6 

38 

Diarrhoea and enteritis ..... 


1913 

200-8 

222-2 

280-2 

39 

Diseases of gallbladder and bile ducts 


3-8 

2-5 

2-8 

2 * 2 

40 

Other diseases of digestive system . 


182-7 

169 '7 

159-2 

172-7’ 

41 

Nephritis and nephrosis .... 


2-6 

2-0 

2 * I 

21 

42 

Diseases of genital organs .... 


24-6 

22-6 

45-6 

47-4 

43 

Deliveries, complications of pregnancy, child birth and 

the puerperium ...... 

*70-8 

♦ 7 0-3 

18-9 

20-2 

44 

Boil, abscess, cellulitis and other skin infections 


182-3 

169-4 

2199 

244-3 

45 

Other diseases of skin 


82-9 

79-7 

942 

100-3 

46 

Arthritis and rheumatism .... 


201-9 

195-4 

II9- I 

134-3 

47 

Diseases of bones and other organs of movement 


12*0 

ti -3 

5-9 

6-5 

48 

Congenital Malformations and diseases peculiar to 
early infancy 


0*8 

1.0 

1-0 

i '5 

49 

Other specific and ill-defined diseases 


264-6 

242.9 

229.9 

241 -o 

5 ° 

Accidents, poisoning and violence . 


205-7 

191-4 

151-1 

172-7 

5 i 

Other Miscellaneous Groups 


6-4 

6-0 

2-8 

3-2 


TOTAL NO. OF NEW CASES 

.@3427-2 

329 i- 7 @ 3327'4 

3715- 1 


•Per 1,000 insured women employees 
@Figures brought upto date. 


APPENDIX XI 

Medical Service and Allocation Committees during 1967-68 


SI. 

No. 

Name of the State 

Number 
of Meetings 

No. of 
cases 
brought 
on the list 

No. of 

cases 

pending 

Remarks 

I 

Gujarat 

4 

4 

" 

One panel Doctor was 
fined for capitation 
ices of 10 Insured 
Persons for one 
quarter and others 
were warned. 

2 

Haryana 

# 1 

3 

— 


3 

Madras 

3 

I 

— 


4 

Maharashtra 

(a) Greater Bombay 

8 

IT7 

IT 



(b) Vidarbha 

— 

— 

— 



(c) Poona 

3 

32 

— 


5 

Mysore .... 

* 1 

27 

— 


6 

Punjab .... 

— 

2 

2 


7 

West Bengal . 

IO 

24 


Two have resigned 



SBC. 3(H)] THE OAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 13, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5033 


APPENDIX XII 

Payments effected to State Government and cast of medical care per family/Tmuired 

person — State-Wise 


Approxi- Whether medical Nature of 
mate coit care extended to payment 
State Year Total Amount per cm- insured persons 

paid ployee only or in- 
or family sured persona 
unit per with families, 
annum 


I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 




Rs. P. F. 

p. 



I 

Andhra Pradesh 

. 1967-68 

33,50,000 .00 

__ 

For Insured per- 1 

"On Account 




sons with 

families. 




2 

Assam . 

. 1964-65 

V 57 . 527 . 6 o 

— 

Do. 

“Final’* 



1967-68 

3,00,000. 00 

— 

Do. 

“On Account*” 

3 

Bihar . 

. 1967-68 

19,50,000-00 

— 

Do. 

“On Account” 

4 

Delhi . 

. 1966-67 

L 7*1751.89* 

» — 

Do. 

“Final" 

5 

Gujarat 

. 1967-68 

1,01,00,000-00 

— 

Do. 

“On Account’* 

6 

Haryana 

. 1966-67 

8,50,000- 00 


Do. 

“Provisional” 


1967-68 

16,10,000-00 

— 

Do. 

"On Account” 

7 

Kerala , 

. 1964-65 

18,88,918-22% 



Do. 

“Final” 



1965-66 

18 , 88,379 -66 


Do. 

Final” 



1966-67 

12,00,000-00 

— 

Do. 

“Provisional” 



1967-68 

38,00,000-00 

— 

Do. 

"On Account’ > 

8 

Madhya Pradesh 

. 1966-67 

5,00,000*00 

— 

Do. 

“Provisional” 


1967-68 

36,25,000-00 

— 

Do. 

“On Account’’ 

9 

Madras . 

, 1964-65 

5,44,630-73 

— 

Do. 

“Final” 



1965-66 

18,63,360-38% ' 

• — 

Do. 

“Final” 



1966-67 

2,81,608-03 

< — 

Do. 

“Final” 



X967-68 

34,28,977-29 

— 

(For insured 

“Final” 



1967-68 

30,00,000*00 

L— 

persons at Madras 
Colmbator. Mad- 

“On Account” 


Si. 

No. 


urai V.S. 
Furam & Tuti- 
corin areas and 
insured persona 
with their fami- 
lies in other 
areas). 


10 Maharashtra 


(a) Greater B embay 

1564-65 

1965- 66 

1966- 67 

1967- C8 

22,35.563 -58 
16,42,330- 2p 
30,00,000-00 
2 , 30 , 00,000 1 OO 

— 

For Insured 1 
sons with] 
lies 

Do. 

icr- “Final” 

Femi- “Final” 

“Provisional” 
“On Account’ 

(b) Nagpur Area] 

1966- 67 

1967- 68 

4 . 47 . 776-49 

19,00,000-00 

— 

Do. 

Do. 

“Final” 

“On Account” 

(c) Western 

1965-66 

. 4,18,827-25 

■_ 

Do. 

"Final" 

Maharashtra Region 1967-68 

23 .6 5.000- 000 

— 

Do. 

“On Account" 

Mysore . 

1965-66 

1967-68 

11,87,805-94 
48,00,000- 00 


Do. 

Do. 

“Final” 

“On Account” 






5034 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 13, 1969/KARTDCA 24, 1*91 {Past II— 


I 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

12 Orissa . 

. 1967-68 

1,00,000*00 

— 

Do. 

“On Account 1 * 

13 Pondicherry . 

, 1966-67 

1310,000-00 

. 

Do. 

"Provisional” 

1 967-6 8 

85,000-00 

— 

Do. 

“On Account” 

14 Punjab . 

. 1965-66 

4,82,137-45 


Do. 

"Final” 


1966-67 

7,50,000-00 


Do. 

“Provisional ” 


1967-68 

23,50,000-00 

* 

Do. 

“On Account 1 

ij Rajasthan 

, 1966-67 

3,97,271-78 

— 

Do. 

"Final” 


1967-68 

IJ^OOO-OO 



Do. 

"On Account 1 * 

16; Uttar Pradesh 

, 1965-66 

24,02,046- 96 


Do. 

"Final” 

1967-68 

42,75,000- 00 % 

— 

Do. 

“On Account” 

17 j West Bengal , 

. 1964-63 

22,83,239-38 

_4 

Do. 

"Final” 

TOTAL 

1966-67 

. R». 

1,27,00,000*00 

10, 69 , 9 b 1 52- 83 

P. 

Do. 

"On Account’ 1 


HB. : % Payments of am >unts vizRs. 8,88,918- 22 for Kerala for 1964-65, Rs. 13,093241*3! 

for Milral for 1965-66 and Ri. 24,02,046-96 for Uttar Pradesh for 1965-66 «a 
authorised during 1966-67 but these were actually paid during 1967-68 only. 
These were shown as final during 1966-67 Inadvertently. 

•Payment arranged by AO. (M) Delhi. 





AfPEitDtX Xln 


incidence of Sickness and Maternity Benefit Claims in 1966-67 and 1967-6S — Statewide 



Andhra Pradesh 

1966-67 

i 81,250 

i,6i,3?4 

2'0 

1-29 

IQ - 2 

Rs. 

2-35 

4*5 

167*1 

53*i 

Rs. 

275 


1967-68 

88,850 

1,90,203 

2-1 

1-27 

9-1 

2-83 

3*5 

169-6 

56-9 

197 

Amin 

1966-67 

40,450 

IM78 

4-3 

0-74 

55 

248 

1*8 

179*3 

6o-o 

233 


1967-68 

10,350 

1M69 

i ‘9 

0-88 

6-9 

2-72 

3-6 

142 * 9 

60-0 

495 

Bit*- . 

1966-67 

55 , 7 °° 

44,507 

o-8 

0-48 

3-3 

2‘6l 

3*4 


38*4 

385 


1967-68 

I 7 . 6 oo] 

50,933 

0-9 

o-5i 

3-5 

2*75 

2*3 

54-5 

261 

Delhi 

. 1966-67 

A 82,250 

83481 ] 

1,0 

0-68 

9-6 

3-06 

5*8 

178-9 

47*4 

228 


1967-68 

*84,150 

86,397 

x-o 

0-71 

6 -6 

3*23 

8-6 

494*5 

31-7 

132 

Gw»k . . 

1966-67 

i 3,16,150 

1,93455 

0-9 

0-44 

4-1 

3 * 7 i 

7*3 

78-1 

80-5 

364 


1967-68 

1 2,34,850 

243453 

i-o 

0-49 

4-7 

4*03 

10* 1 

106-9 

81 -8 

387 

Kerala 

1966-67 

1 , 28 , 35 ° 

3,10,660 

2-4 

i -44 

U *3 

1 " 73 

4-9 

126-0 

122-8 

175 


1967-68 _ 

1,34,150 

3,46,024 

2-6 

1-48 

12- 1 

1*99 

£ 5-5 

124- 8 

120-2 

I 9 i 

Madhya Pradesh 

. 1966-67 

92,050 

1 , 72,797 

1-9 

1-04 

12-5 

2*81 

6-4 

123-9 

109-2 

279 


1967-68 

92,100 

i,8i,7M 

2-0 

1 - 10 

12-5 

3-08 

6*5 

144*7 

94-8 

280 



tee, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTEKA 24, 1891 5035 







3 


5 


Madras 

. 196667 

3 , 74 , to° 

449^89 

1-6 


1967-68 

2,91,750 

4 , 92 ^ JO 

1-7 

Maharashtra . 

1966-67 

7 , 55,300 

11,38,632 

1-5 


19676S 

7 , 73 , 3 «> 

n 6 o>iJ 5 

r-6 

Myaort 

, 1966-67 

1 , 43,700 

242,350 

i' 5 

1967-68 

1 , 51^50 

i, 95^92 

r -3 

Odasa , 

1966-67 

26400 

344 1 1 

t -3 


1967-68 

27,000 

34,312 

1-3 

Punjab A Haryana . 

, 1966-67 

144,300 

59,793 

0-4 

1967-68 

1,60,600 

67,368 

0-4 

Rajasthan . 

. 1966-67 

48,050 

42,700 

0-9 


1967-68 

52,300 

47 P 69 

0-9 

Uttar Pradesh , , 

1966-67 

342,650 

1,93,786 

o-8 


196768 

245,350 

2907,990 

o-8 

West Bengal , , 

196667 

7,50,150 

9,83,879 

i -3 


196768 

7,87400 

1143-835 

1-5 


Total 


1966- 67 30,50,750 40,94,511 

1967- 68 31,91,600 45,67.663 


i-3 

i-4 


6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

II 

12 

o*8a 

8-8 

3-30 

j-o 

126-9 

57 -t 

386 

i-88 

9-5 

3 ’45 

4-5 

124-5 

66-2 

303 

1*2 

8-7 

3’83 

6'7 

123-2 

40-5 

436 

1-09 

9-5 

3’99 

7’3 

121-4 

32*4 

553 

1*02 

7'9 

2-72 

4’2 

140-3 

89-6 

224 

0*92 

6-6 

3-02 

3’7 

136-3 

91-3 

257 

2-82 

8-9 

2-49 

15-8 

191-3 

20-7 

302 

3-TO 

I 0 «I 

2-65 

I *2 

168-9 

26-9 

363 

0-23 

2*2 

2-48 

1-2 

145-7 

15-8 

223 

0-25 

2*2 

2-77 

i-8 

128-2 

12 ‘6 

72 

0-48 

4-2 

2-41 

2-8 

141-8 

48-3 

344 

0-35 

4-2 

2-68 

2-5 

139-8 

42-6 

299 

o- 56 

5-4 

2-76 

T '5 

i 8 i -8 

17-1 

182 

0 -J 9 

6-5 

2-79 

2-6 

184-8 

17-3 

259 

0'92 

8*o 

2-52 

2-5 

173-5 

44-2 

354 

ZOO 

7*5 

2-76 

3’5 

1692 

47 ’S 

355 

o-88 

7.7 

3*oi 

4-5 

I 3 I -7 

69-5 

267 

1 -or 

8-2 

3-22 

5 -r 

135-0 

67-4 

373 



5036 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTTKA 24, 1891 [Paat U- 




APPEND!* XlY 

IncitietiOe of Disablement and Dependants’ Benefit Claims admitted in 1966-67 and 1967-68 — State-wise 


State 

reriod 

No, of 
employees 
deemed 
exposed 
to risk 

Temporary Disablement 

Benefit 


Permanent Disablement 

Benefit 

Dependants’ 

Benefit 


Rate erf No. of 
fresh T.D.B. 

spells days 

peremp- per 
loyee per emplo- 
annum yee per 

annum 

Average 

daily 

rate 

of 

TJD.B. 

No. of 
fresh 
cases 
admitted 

Rate of 
fresh 
cases 
per 

10:0 emp- 
loyees per 
annum 

No. of No. of 

cases Beneli- 

commuted ciaries 
for lamp- at die 
sum end of 

the year 

No. of No. of 

death Bene- 

cases fidaries 

admitted at the 

end of 

the year 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 


7 

g 

9 10 


12 






Rs. 







Aadhra Pradesh 

1966-67 

85,000 

O 

b 

0 77 

2-41 


128 

1-52 

134 259 

8 

138 








IS 






1967-68 

1,00,250 

0 04 

0.77 

3-58 


H3 

x-14 

93 280 

I 

139 








iS 





Assam 

1966-67 

10,350 

o-o-y 

0.71 

2-44 


27 

2-61 

19 42 

4 

22 


1967-68 

10,300 

0.02 

0 80 

3-43 


15 

1 -46 

15 4i 

3 

26 

Khar 

1966-67 

56,950 

002 

0 53 

232 


49 

o-86 

20 198 



I06 


1967-68 

58400 

0.03 

0-54 

2-50 


57 

0-82 

37 218 

4 

115 

EWM 

1966-67 

83,000 

0 05 

103 

2-89 


196 

2'37 

104 1,346 

3 

185 








iS 






1967-68 

87,50 0 

0 05 

0 87 

311 


248 

2-85 

131 1418 

7 

200 








iS 





Gujarat 

1966-67 

2^28,600 

0 05 

0 87 

3'45 


767 

3-36 

535 430 

27 

137 








is 






1967-6S 

3,50 ,950 

0 04 

0.89 

3-78 


931 

3-71 

750 60 1 

37 

236 

Kerala 

1966-67 

1,33450 

0.04 

0 - 61 

3-38 


158 

I* 18 

130 280 

10 

l3o 


1967-68 

1,36,250 

0-04 

0-65 

2-70 


264 

1-94 

201 337 

9 

arr 

Madhya Pradesh 

. 1966-67 

91,700 

0-07 

1-33 

2-69 


165 

!■ 80 

124 620 

4 

205 


1967-68 

93,350 

o-o8 

1-29 

2-99 


185 

1.02 

121 673 

12 

239 


•fac. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 





Madm 

, 1*66-67 

M 53 JO 

O'OS 

©•73 


1967-68 

806500 

0-08 

0-70 

* 

. *966-67 

7,68/550 

0-04 

0,67 


1*67-6* 

7 ^ 9,630 

0-04 

©•68 

Mywtt 

* 1966-67 

1967-68 

149.650 

1,58,800 

0-04 

0-03 

©•58 

044 

Odm 

, 1966-67 

87450 

@0-03 

0-83 


1967-68 

8745 ° 

0-04 

0.96 

Panjab & Haryana . 

. 1966-67 

1967-68 

1,58400 

1.67450 

5 * 5 ? 
6 6 

0-55 

0-58 

Rajasthan , . . 

. 1966-67 

1967-68 

51400 

55.750 

0 0 

6 6 

Uttar Fxadaib 

. 1966-67 

1967-68 

346400 

. 844.750 

0-09 
o« 03 

0-65 

0.64 

Teat Bengal . 

. *966-67 
1967-68 

7.85450 

7,93,700 

0-07 

0*08 

1-53 

1-55 

Totai 

. 1966-67 

3 1,60,000 

0.05 

0.93 


1967-68 

93 * 80^50 

9.05 

0-91 


S — Relate* to Second Accident, 

®—Fig» revised. 




Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTITA 74. 1891 5039 


APPENDIX XV 

Incidence of Permanent DIreblf nrtrt Frrff(-C T r'ir« ri'mitud In if44-67 ud i*6f-68 

INDUSTRY-WISE 


Estimated No. of Rate of' 
No. of accident PDB cases 
Industry Period employees cases per 1000 

exposed admitted employees 
to risk per annum 



Food, Beverages and Tobacca 

. 1966-67 

i.55,9Si 

EIO 

i 1 34 

1967-68 

1,54,186 

l «7 

i*at 

Textiles 

. 1966-67 

13,92,296 

3,481 

*•51 


1967-68 

14.35,753 

4,234 

*-ps 

Leather and Rubber . 

. 1966-67 

74,29* 

1*6 

1*70 


1967-68 

T9.°5* 

116 

1-73 

Chemicals and Chemical Products 

. . 1966-67 

1,36,71* 

t 5 6 

1-14 


1967-68 

1,48,741 

*40 

i-6l 

Non-Metallic Minerals . , 

. 1966-67 

1,48,95* 

180 

!•«* 


1967-68 

1,55,63* 

■24 

* 44 

Matallic Minerals 

. . 1966-67 

*,92,60* 

P *4 

8-34 


1967-68 

8,00,971 


1 JI 

Engineering .... 

- . 1966-67 

4,20,014 

i.i4« 

*■7* 


1967-68 

4,46,747 

1411 

t-m 

Transport 

. . 1966-67 

1967-68 

*.06,123 
*. 17,577 

£ 

a- 38 
•■76 

Paper nd Printing . * 

. , 1966-67 

1,33,64* 

Mf 

i-6* 

1967-68 

1,33,414 

1*6 

147 

Miscellaneous .... 

. , 1966-67 

•,00,40* 

4« 

tos 


1967-68 

*,08,763 

43* 

«'«S 

TOTAL 

. . 1966-67 

ji,6o,ooo 

7.401 

*•34 


1967-68 

32,80.850 

8*551 

B'6t 



APPENDS XVI 

Parti cularsof legal action taken daring 196J-6& under the E.SJ. Act. 


State 

Amount involved in cases filed under 

Amount received by action under 


Number 
of pro- 


Section 66 

Section 67 

Section 73-D 

Section 75 

Section 66 

Section 67 Section 73-D Section 75 

filed 
under 
section 85 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 8 

9 

IO 

Andhra Pradesh . 

3,112.50 

— 

1,99,636.94 

— 

— 

— 56 , 343 -48 



12 

Assam 

— 

— 

67,634-00 

195*29 

— 

— 13,060- 82 

28,401-38 

4 

Bihar 

15,790-00 

— 

3,66,329-60 

61,025-29 

— 

— 36 , 333-62 

30 ,I 73-38 

22 

Delhi 

7,455-18 

— 

2,26,906-29 

1,72,422-65 

13,568-38 

— 43 , 415,63 

24,582- 18 

3 

Gujarat 

75,045-83 

— 

10,18,989.79 

1,56,084.72 

— 

— 3 , 77 , 302-49 

8X65.37 

97 

Kerala 

1,803.31 

165-94 

4,97,986.61 

3,13,138.63 

— 

— 3 , 07 , 193-21 

1,02,558.75 

31 I 

Madh ya Pradesh . 

. 1 , 72 , 999-99 

— 

9,65,218- 50 

3,27,727-61 

715-05 

— 1 , 12 , 297 - 37 

12 , 195-47 

\ 

5 

Madras 

, 10,175-00 

3,250-38 

16,00,928 04 

6,79,816-96 

— 

— 7,61,665-81 

1 , 07 , 739-03 

83 

Maharashtra , 

. 1,87,718-15 

5,62625 

19,28,808-69 

66,401-62 

43,419-77 

— 1,76,250-03 

2,06X54-90 

164 

Mysore 

2,313-10 

— 

3,11,587-24 

60,625-44 

— 

— 2,06,758-98 

38,325-24 

5 

Orissa 

— 

— 

74,365-00 

1,65,560.33 

— 

— ■ — 

5,652-99 

4 

Punjab 

. 51 ^ 33 'I 7 

— 

4 , 54 ^ 65-37 

2 , 49 , 7 * 2 '75 

4 * 3-75 

— 54,830-29 

1,94,248-65 

68 


;o 4 Q THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Paht G 



Rajasthan 

* 

6,236.08 

— 2,58,169-23 

47,208-78 

4,192-97 

■— 28,161-26 

61,976-98 

31 

Nagpur Area 

■ 

09*94 

— 2, 62,549* 35 

1,922-26 

581-00 

— 4,556*°° 

i, 45 0 ,46 

31 

Uttar Pradesh 

• 

— 

— 10,01,618-39 

1,22,853-41 

— 

— 2,72,447-32 

1,07,828-81 

75 

West Bengal 

■ 

18,619- 27 

— 12 , 57 , 079 ' 88 

2,65^98-29 

2*405 ’CO 

— 40,037-55 

1,27,162-82 

292 

Total . 

■ 

5 , 53 , 571-52 

8,042.57 1,04,92,672 92 

26,89,003 . 03 

63,365 '92 

— 24,90,653 '86 

10,56 616 -41 

937 

1 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTTKA 24, 1891 5041 


504 a THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTTKA 24. 1*91 [Past II— 





APPENDIX 

INCOME 

Income end Expenditure Account ftr 

Previous year 

(1965-66) 

Heed of Account 

Amount 

Total 

Rs. 

11,67,12,836 

10,39,69,964 

By Contributions : — 

Employers' Share or ly . 

Employees' Shire only «... 

R». 

12,93-37,103 

11,50,80,309 

R>. 

*4,44,17,4** 

22,06,82,800 



2,74,699 

State Govt, shire towards rredici! benefits 
initially incurred by the Corporation 

1,67,000 

3,67,00* 


Other Heads oj Revenue. 



93,95,958 

1,15,615 

2,22,796 

6,304 

2,29,878 

Grant-in-aid, Donations and Gifts 

Interests ard Dividend .... 

Compensations ...... 

Rents, Rates ard Taxes .... 

Fees, Fines and Forfeiture 

Miscellaneous ... ... 

80,51.463 

1,65,754 

1,52,330 

‘2,476 

2,12,345 



99,70,55i 


* 5 , 84 , 5 ** 




Bee. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15 , I 969 /KARTIKA 24, l»l JOjg 



9,21,89,254 


rv », 

1 . Ber efiu loir sui ed pernor s at d tl el« li ir ilie* 

A. Medical Benefit! 

(*) Payment! to State Govcrrmert etc. 
as Corporation*’ Share of their 
expenses on prov'ding medical 
Ireelmcnt ard maternity facilities etc. p,86,;3,4l* 

( fi ) Medical treatment ar,d care end 
maternity facilities (expenses incurred 
direct by the Corporation — 

(Total Expenditure)' 43 , 5 2 >597 


36,85,782 (Total Expen din 

9,58,75,036 Total A~Medical Benefit! 


10,30,06,019 


6.04.20.850 
47,19,595 
33,71,412 

66,65,880 

1.07.35.850 
23,17,000 


—Cash Benefits 

(1) Sickness Benefit* 

(2) Extended Sickness Benefit* 


(3J Maiemty Eet cfhs 

(4) Temporary Disablement Benefit*' 

(5) Permanent Disablement Benefit* 
(Capitalised Value) .... 

(6) Dependants Benefit* 

(Capitalised Value) .... 


8,82,30,587 Total 1 ash Benefits 


7,06,03,647 

64,86,673 

37,55,036 

80,42,828 

1,20,52,800 

32,28,700 


10,41,69,7*4 


C— Other Benefits 

(«) Expenditure on rfie Refiefcilitaticn of 
30,008 Disabled perscr*. 

1,30,296 ( 4 ) Medicellcaid tr.d Apreal Trilvrals 

(e) Payments to Insuuc tenets; — 

50,070 (1) Conveyance charge* and/or lose of 

— (2) Incidenttl charge* under family 

Planning. 

6,221 (d) Grant-in-aid . . 

1,13,486 («) Miacellaneona ... 

3,30,081 TW C— OiiuT Benefits . , . . 

18,44,33,704 7 *(*/Berefit* to insured rentes rrd tfieir families 


6 ,c6» 

1,51660 

56.560 

17 , 71 * 

•tV>5,5oo 

i.*5>357 


**, 55 , 3 , S«* 


a — Administration Expen tn 

(1) Corporation Standing 

24,109 Committee, Regional Eo«d* etc. 
*,00,181 (a) Principal Officer* 

16,56,069 (3) Other Officers 
53,72,261 (4) Minitiei.il Imtlnl meT.t 
10,70,665 (5) Class IV Servints 
22,80,028 (6) Contingencie* 

1,06,03,313 Total A— Superint mie sKt . , 


22,511 

i,9i,i94 

18,18,24a 

6- : c , 1 3 1 
12,50-275 
*5,56,211 


1,22,4907* 


5 O 44 TH E GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1 969/KARTTKA 24, 1891 [Pabt II— 


Previous Year 

(1965-66) 


Head of Account 


Amount 


Total 





She. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER IS, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5045 


Previous Year Head of Account Amount Total Toial 

(1965-66) 


Re. Rs. Rs. Rs. 



B— Field Work 


345.538 

(1) Offlfcera .... 

4,20,941 

66,09,174 

(2) Ministerial EsteHitl mrnt 

78,51,074 

11,94,332 

(3) Class IV Servams 

14,36,371 

12,79,193 

(4) Contingencies 

13,17474 

94,28,236 

Total B — Field Work 

C — Other Charges 

1,10,05,660 

96,149 

( I ) Legal Charges 

1,09,748 

72,823 

(2) Insurance Courts 

34,628 

7,9i8 

(3) Publicity & Advertisement . 

12,059 

8,980 

(4) Charges for maintaining of 
Banking Account 

8,465 

58,815 

(5) Audit Fees .... 

99 ,ii8 

445,479 

(6) Depreciation of office Bldg*/ 
Hospitals/Dispeasaries Equip- 
ments/Staff Cars, etc. 

5,674713 

2,04,366 

(7) Repairs, Maintenance of 

office Bldgs, owned by the 
Corporation 

22,974 

7,06,212 

(8) Repairs & Maintenance of 

Hospital Buildings owned by the 

Corporation . . . 12,39,371 

2,95,000 

(9) Pension Reserve Fund for the 
Employees of the Corpn. , 

3,504X)0 

1,46,002 

(10) Corporation’s Contribution to 
E.S.I. Corpn. Provident Fund 

1,61,443 

2,76,200 

(11) Interest paid to the E.S.I. 
Corpn. Provident Fund 

347,649 

(—>65,875 

(12) LESS interest &gain realised 
on investment Fund , 

(—>33,934 

— 

(13) Miscellaneous 

24,788 

. — 

(14) Losses , . . 1 . ' 

— 


22,22,069 Total C — Other Charges 


29,43,362 


2,22,53,618 Total 2— Administration Expenses 
20,66,89,322 Total Expenditure on Revenue 
Accountj 

To excess of income over expendi- 
242,38,728 rare carried over to Balance Sheet 


23,09,28,050 Grand Total 


2,61,98,093 

24,17,37,078 


1,16,31,902 

23,33,68,980 


(S.P.Joshi), 

Financial, Adviser & Chief Accounts Officer , 
Employees State Insurance Corporation 



J046THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Past II— 




appendix 



Balance Sheet as *■ 

Rttviotu Year 
(1965-66) 

Liabilities 

Amount 

Total 

Rs. 

Bakmee of Excess of htcosne Over Expenditure 

Rs. 

Rs. 

31,50)17.886 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 

33,92,56,614 


3,42,38,728 

Accumulations during iht year 

1,16,31,902 


33,92,36,614 

(1) Permanent ( Partial & Total) Disablement 
Reserve Fund 


35,08,88,51* 

3,87,17,144 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 

3,30,23,762 


J,07,35,8jo 

Proeision made during the yea* 

1, 20,52, f ( c 


13,45,079 

Interest received from Investments’. . 

16,9? ■ 19 


4,07,98,073 


4,87,72,381 


37,72,311 

LESS Payments made during the year 

71,80,398 


3,50,23,762 

(2) Dtpendat.ts Benefit Reserve Fund 


4 ,i 5 , 9 i. 9 *S 

1,13,90,448 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 

1,32,71,0x8 


33,17,000 

Provision made during the year . 

32,28,70c 


5,34,702 

Interest received from Investment 

7,30)423 


M2, 42, ,150 


1,72,30,141 


9,71,132 

LESS Payments made during ihe year 

ii, 93,936 


1,32,77,018 

(3) Employees State Insurance Corporation 
Provider.t Fund 


1,60,36,20s 

89,06,275 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 

ADD Amount credited during the year 

71,30,227 


14,23,912 

Employees’ Contribution .... 

17 , 35,953 


1,46,002 

Corporation Contribution j 

1.61,443 


2,76,200 

Interest on Employees’ and Corporation shares 

3,47,649 


1,07,34,389 


93,95,273 


9,88,138 

LESS Payments made during the year 

8,39,671 


97 ) 66,231 


*5.55,601 


(—>26,36,024 

(LESS Amount transferred to Pension Reserve 
Fund) 

(—>62,991 


71,30,327 


84,92,6** 



Sac. 3(ii>} THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 13, 196VKARTIKA 24, 1891 5047 


SVJIl 

31st March 13*7 



Previous Year 
(1&65-66) 

Asset* 

Amount 

Total 

Rs. 

Lands end Buildings (wholly atoned by the 
Corporation ) 

(e) Buildings for offles of the Corporation 
(including Staff Quarters') 

JU. 

As. 

14.13.37^ 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 

•6,40,306 


32,26,734 

Aliltioas during the year .... 

l,38,-88i 



*6*40,306 74.795187 


(b) Boipifah and Dispensaries 


3.60.67.032 

As per last Balance Sheet 

3,90,94,474 


2.30,27,442 

Additions during the year 

3,66^1,475 


3.90.94,474 


8,57,13,949 


6,57,34,780 

Land) and Buildings ( jointly owned by the 
Corporation and State Govts.) 


9,3i,95,i<96 


Corporation’s share 




(a) Hospitals cmd Dispensaries 



3.31.023 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 

4 , 05,331 


74,308 

Additions during the year 

— 


4,03,331 


4,05,331 



(6) Equipments for Hospitals , etc. 



4>,63o 

A) per last Balance Sheet ... 

49,680 


— . 

Additions during the year .... 

— 


49,680 


49,680 


4,33kOii 

Suspense (Ailvanct for construction of Hospitals, 
llttir equipment*, offices Buildings) 


4.35 jOI 1 

8,73,64,435 

As per last Balance Sheet . 

9,79^1.642 


3,53,79,606 

ADD Payments made during the year 

4,26,68,621 


12,32,44,041 


14,06,10,263 


2,33,02,399 

LB S 3 Adjustments St Recoveries 

3,37,37,903 



9.79»4i.«4a 








JO 48 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Paht II- - 


Previous Year 
(1965-66) 

Liabilities 

Amount 

Total 

Rs. 

(4) Depreciation Reserve Fund of buildings for 
the offices of the Corporation ( including staff 
quarters)^ 

Rs. 

Rs. 

1,81,169 

32,590 

12.333 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
Provision made during the year 

Interest received from Investments , 

2,26,092 

9.532 


2,26,092 

(5) Depreciation Reserve Fund of equipment in 
Hospital and Eeeaenination Centres 


2,35,624 

27,946 

4,968 

1,094. 

As per last Balance Sheet . 

Provision made during the year 
, Irtcrest received from Investments 

34,008 

9,884 

1,191 


34.008 

(6) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Hospitals 
Buildings 


45,083' 

3,33,587 

3,67,959 

13,549 

As per iast Balance Sheet .... 
Provision made during the year . 

Interest received from Investments 

7,14,095 

5,50,251 

32,623 


7,14,095 

(7) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Staff Can 


12,96,969- 

42,154 

9,962 

2, r8o 

As per last Balance Sheet . . . 

Provision made during the year . 

Interest received from Investments 

54,296 

6,878 

2,565 


54,296 

(8) Repairs and Maintenance Reserve Fund of 
buildings for the offices of the Corporation 


63,739- 

1,81,442 

2,04,366 

-8,623 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
Provision made during the year . 

Interest received on Investments 

3,90,770 

22,974 

16,932 


3,94,43i 

3,661 

LESS Payments made during the year . 

4,30,676 

64,314 


3,90,770 

(9) Repairs and Maintenance Reserve Fund 
Account of Hospitals 


3,66,362: 

3,65,786 

7,06,212 

12,842 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
Provision made during the year . . 

Interest received on Investments 

10,84,840 

12,39,371 

50,770 


10,84,840 

LBSS Payments made during the year . 

»3,74,98l 

1,27,686 


10,84,840 



22,47,302 




Sue. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24 , 1691 5049 


Previous Year Assets AmouDt Total 

(1963-66) 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Staff Cars 

84,149 As per last Balance Sheet .... 84,149 

— ADD Payments made during the year . — 


84,149 


Permanent Advance to the Heads of O fflec of 
the Corporation 

20,466 As per last Balance Sheet .... 
1,561 ADD Payments made during the year 


22,027 

21 1 LESS Recoveries made during the year 


21,816 

1,265 


23,081 


21,816 


Advance of Pay on transfer to the Employees 
of the Corporation 


7,608 As per last Balance Sheet . . . 10,258 

44,9 r 5 ADD Payments made during the year . 64,036 


52,523 74,294 

42,265 LESS Recoveries made during the year . 55,483 


10,258 


Advance of T.A. on transfer to the Employees 
of the Corporation 


18,194 As per last Balance Sheet . , . 19,386 

56,946 ADD payments made during the year • 72,978 


75,140 92,364 

55,754 LESS Recoveries made during the year . 61,316 


19,386 


Rs. 


84,149 


23,081 


18,81 1 


31,048 


Advance for Purchase of Conveyances to the 
Employees of the Corporation 


1,41,831 As per last Balance Sheet .... 2,79,282 

2,73,492 ADD Payments made during the year . . 2,89,440 


4>I5,323 5,68,722 

1,36,041 LESS Recoveries made during year . . 2,17,506 


2,79,282 


3 , 51.216 


House Building Advance 

4,300 As per last Balance Sheet .... 19,180 

14,900 ADD Payments made during the year . . 29,520 

19,400 48,700 

220 LESS Recover!** made during the year. . 1,928 


19,180 


46,772 



5050 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTTKA 24, 1891 [Past M— 


Previous Year 
(1965-66) 

Liabilities 

Amount 

Total 

Rs. 

(10) Pension Reserve Fund for the Employees 
of the Corporation 

Rs, 

Rs. 

14,99.975 

2,95,000 

65,025 

As per last Balance Sheet , 

Provision made during the year . 

Interest and gain received on Investments 

44,80,634 

3,50,000 

2,22,620 


18,60,000 


30,53,254 


15.390 

LESS Payments made during the year . 

15,736 


18,44,610 


50,37,518 


26,36,024 

(ADD Amount transferred from Employees’ 
State Insurance Corporation Provident Fund) 

62,991 


44,80,634 

Deposits of Securities e.g. Contractor 1 


51,00,509 

i,ii,935 

87,607 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
ADD Deposits during the year, . 

82,401 

92,159 


i,99,542 

1,17,141 

LESS Deposits repaid during the year 

1,74,560 

87,128 


82,401 

Deductions from bills payable to other parties 


87,432 

12,796 

2,91,008 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
ADD Amount credited during the year 

15,555 

3,35,282 


3,03,804 

2,88,249 

LESS Payments made during the year 

3,50,837 

3,09,405 


15,555 

Unclaimed deposits in the Employees State Insu- 
rance Corporation Provident Fund 


41,432 

4,274 

2,219 

As per last Balance Sheet . . - 

ADD Amount credited during the year 

6,493 

3,113 


6,493 


9,606 


— 

LESS Payments made during the year 

— 


6,493 

Miscellaneous Deposits 


9,606 

84,115 

33,178 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
LESS Deposits repaid during the year . 

ADD Deposits received during the year . 

50,937 

248,127 


50,937 



2,99,064 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5051 


Previous Year Assets Amount Total 

(1965-66) 


Rs. Rs. 

Miscellaneous Advances to the Employees of the 
Corporation ( Festival Advances') 

81,117 As per last Balance Sheet .... 1,07,520 

2,95,825 A DD Payments made during the year . . 3,22,430 

3,76,942 4,29,95° 

2,69,422 LESS Recoveries made during the year . 2,92,398 


1,07,520 


Ra. 


1 , 37,552 


Advance Payments on behalf of State Governments 

1,166 As per last Balance Sheet .... 
4,088 ADD Payments made during the year . 


5, z 54 

4,295 


LESS Recoveries made during the year 


959 

3,949 


4,908 

3,449 


959 1,459 

Advance to the Deserve Bank of India for the 
purchase of Securities 

— As per last Balance Sheet .... 1,32,696 

1,32,696 ADD Payments made during the year . . ( — ) 1,32,696 


1,32,696' 

— LESS Adjustment made during the year 


1,32,696 

Amount advanced to State Govts. I State P.W-D. 
etc. towards repairs Of maintenance of Hospitals 
Dispensaries! Annexes etc. wholly owned by the 
Corporation 

■ — As per last Balance Sheet .... — 

— ADD Payments made during the year , . 16,79,774 

— LESS Adjustments made during the year . 4,00,001 


12,79,773 

Miscellaneous Advances 


3,16,639 As per last Balance Sheet .... 5,87,546 

3,67,603 ADD Payments made during the year . . 2,21,707 

6,84,242 8,09,253 

96,696 LESS Receipt during the year . . . 2,07,089 

5,87,546 6,02,164 ■ 

Loans granted to State Governments 

49,75,546 As per last Balance Sheet .... 72,69,766 

22,94,220 ADD Payments made during the year . . 1,00,000 


72,69,766 


73,69,766 



5052 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTDCA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


Previous Year 
(1965-66) 


Liabilities 


Amount 


Total 





Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5053 


Previous Year Assets Amount Total 

(1965-66) 


Rs. Rs. Rs. 

Remittances 

Cash Remittances 

( — ) 46,136 As per last balance sheet .... 20,04,500 

37,00,11,407 ADD Debits adjusted during year . . 39,29,46,618 

36,99.65,271 39.49,51,118 

36,79,60,771 LESS Credits adjusted during year . . 39,43,40,118 

20,04,500 6,11,000 

Other Remittances — Exchange Accounts 

.. As per last balance sheet .... 24,549 

4,89,69,120 ADD Debits during the year . . . 4,45,46,913 

4,89,69,120 4,45,71,462 

4,89,44,571 LESS Credits during the year . . . 4,45,71,295 

24,549 167 


INVESTMENTS A T COST 

(r) Permanent {Partial Or Total ) 

Disablement Benefit Reserve Fun d 

2.86.96.746 As per last Balance Sheet . . . 3,18,50,746 

31,54,000 ADD Investments made during the year . 96,86,600 

3.18.50.746 4,15.37,346 
LESS Realisation on Maturity orssle ofinvest- 

ments 

3,18,50,846 4,15,37,346 

(2) Dependants' Benefit Reserve Fund , 

1,11,48,701 Ab per last Balance Sheet .... 1,29,65,701 

18,17,000 ADD Investments made during the year. . 30,53,000 


1,29,65,701 1,60,18,701 

LESS Realisation on Maturity or sale of Invest- 
ments ....... 


1,29,65,701 


1,60,18,701 


(3) Employees’ State Insurance Corporation 
Provident Fund. 

79.59.351 As per last Balance Sheet .... 70,27,600 

13,46,000 ADD Investments made during year . , 9,02,500 

93.05.351 79,30,100 

5,000 DBS'S Realisation on maturity or sale of invest- 
ments 

93,00,351 79,30,100 

22,72,751 LESS Amount transferred to Pension Reserve 
Fund 


70,27,600 


79,30,100 




5054 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


Previous Year Liabilities Amount Total 

(1965-66) 


Rs. Rs. Rs. 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 13, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5055 


Previous Year 
(1965-66) 

Assets 

Amount 

Tolal 



Rs. 

Rs. 


(4) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Buildings for 
the offices of the Corporation ( including Staff 
quarters ) 



1,80,808 

7,000 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
Add Investments made during the year 

1,75,488 

52,cco 


1,87,808 

12,320 

Less Realisation on maturitty or sale of invest- 
ments ....... 

2,27,488 


r, 75,488 

v 5) Depreciation Reserve Fund of equipment 
in Hospitah and Examination Centres 


2,27,488 

22,900 

10,000 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
ADD Investment made during the year 

27,900 

11,000 


32,900 


38,900 


5,000 

LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of invcst- 
menits 

5,000 


27,900 

(6) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Hospitah, 
Buildings 


33 , 9 oo 

1,72,500 

1,63,000 

A 3 per last Balance Sheet .... 

ADD Investment* made during the year 

3 , 35,500 

3,82, oco 


3 , 35,500 



7,17,500 


(7) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Staff Cars 



29*000 

21,000 

As perlastBalance Sheet .... 

ADD Investments made during the year 

O O 

O O 

O O 


50,000 


66,000 


8,000 

LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of invest- 
ments ....... 

12,000 


42,000 



54,000 


(8) Repair '& Maintenance Reserve Fund of 
Buildings for the offices of the Corporation 
(including Staff quarters) 



1,43,727 

33,000 

As pjrlistBalanoe Sheet .... 

ADD I tvesrmmts made during the year 

1,81,727 

2,29,000 


1,81,727 

LESS 4 . ■. ilisation on maturity or sale of invest- 
ments ....... 

4,10,727 

■49,500 


1,81,727 



3,61,227 




5056 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


Previous Year Liabilitii s Amount 

(1965-66) 


Total 


Sec, 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KART1KA 24, 1891 5057 


Previous Year Assets Amount Tot el 

(1965-66) 


Rs. 


Rs. 


(9) Repairs & Maintenance Reserve Fund 
of Hospitals, Buildings 

i,6oo As per lastBalancc Sheet , 

3,64,000 ADD Investment made during itc year 


3,65,600 

7,2i,6co 


3,65,600 

.. LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of invest- 

ments ....... 


10,87,200 

1,600 


3,65,600 


(10) Pension Reserve Fund for 
Employees of the Corporation 

12,04,804 As per last balance Sheet . . . 37,73,555 

2,96,000 ADD Invest ment mede during the ycer . 11,25,800 

15,00,804 48,99,355 

22,72,75 1 ADD amount transferred to ESIG Provident Fund 

— • LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of Investments 40,842 


37,73,555 


Rs. 


ro,85,6oen 


48,58,5i3‘ 


Genera 1 Cash Balances 


16,86,22,614 Investments as per last Balance Sheet . 15,29,89,395 

7,90,67,200 ADD Investments made during the year . 2,97,96,000 


24,76,89,814 18,27,85,395 

9,47,00,419 LESS Realisation on maturity or self of invest- 6,13,45,761 


ments 

15,29,89,395 

5,05,726 Cash in hand 
1,68,89,764 Cash with Bankers 

1,73,95,490 

17,03,84,885 Total Cash Balance 
40,18,23,742 Grand Total 


12,14,39,634 

6,14,965 

2,28,33,996 

2,34,48,S6 i 

14,48,88,595 

42,68,02,435 


S. P. Joshi, 

Financial Adviser & 

Chief Accounts Officer, 

Employees State Insurance Corporation. 

AUDIT CERTIFICATE 

I have examined the foregoing accounts and the Balance Sheet of the Employee*' 
State Insurance Corporation and obtained all the infoimstic r and cxphralicni that I have required 
and subject to the observations in the Audit Report appended, 1 certify, 6 s a result cf my eudft 
that in my opinion these accounts and the Balance Sheel are properly drawn up sc as to exhibit 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Employees’ Slate Insurance Corpoiatirn recording 
to the best of my information and explanation given to me and at ihown by the bocks cl the 
Employees' State Insurance Corporation. 

New Delhi Sd /- D. D. DHIKGRA, 

Dated 13 June, 1968 Accountant General, 

Central Revenues. 


New Delhi 

Dated the 3 1st May, 1957 



■5058 1 he GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Pari II— 

APPENDIX 
Income and Expenditure Account 

N.B, The accounts for the year 1967-68 areBtillto be audited by the External Auditors. 
INCOME 


Previous Year Head of Account Amount Total 

(1966-67) 


Rs. 


Rs. 

Rb. 

12,93,37,103 

By Contributions: — 

Employers’ Share only .... 

13,64,06,909 


11,50,80,309 

Employees’ Share only .... 

12,44,28,148 


24,44, 1 7,4 1 3 

3,67,000 

State Governments/Unlon territories share 
towards medical benefits initially incurred 
by the Corporatipn .... 

3 , 94,390 

26,08,35,057 

3,94,390 


Other Heads of Revenue 

Grants-in-aid, Donations and Gifts 



80,51,463 

Interests and Dividends .... 

5 8 , 95.709 


1 , 65,754 

Compensations ...... 

1,36,051 


1,52,330 

Rents, Rates and Taxes .... 

63,255 


2,476 

Fees, Fines and Forfeitures 

4.953 


2,12,545 

Miscellaneous 

3,97,313 



85.84,568 


63,97,28i 


Sec- 3(H)] THE G AZE TTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIXA 24, 1891 5059 


XIX 




For the Tear ended 31 March 1968 





EXPENDITURE 

Previous Year 

(1966-67) 

Head of Account 

Amount 

Total 

Rs. 

I. Benefits to insured persons and their 
families 

Rs. 

Rs. 


A — Medical Benefit s 



9,86,53,422 

(i) Payments to State Governments etc. 
as Corporations’ sh*r* of their expenses 
on providing medical treatment and maternity 
facilities etc. 10,69,20,401 


43,52,597 

(ii) Medical treatment and care and mater- 
nity facilities (expenses incurred direct by 
the Corporation)__(Total Expenditure) • 

-54,37,704 


10,30,06,019 

Total A — Medical Benefits 

T — Cash Benefits 


11,23,58,105 

7,06,03,647 (1) Sickness Benefits 

8,38,52,628 


64,86,673 

(2) Extended Sickness Benefits • - 

82,93,784 


37,55,036 

(3) Maternity Benefits .... 

40,54,184 


80,42,858 

(4) Temporary Disablement Benefits 
(5) Permanent Disablment Benefits 

93,19,587 


1,20,52,800 

(Capitalised Value) .... 

1,49,60,700 


32,28,700 

(6) Dependants Benefits (Captallsed Value) ■ 

31,61,000 


10,41,69,714 

Total Cash Benefits 


i2,36,4 I ,883 


C — Other Benefits 

(a) Expenditure on the Rehabilitation of 



6,060 

Disabled persons • 

33,312 


1,51,660 

(b) Medical Board and Appeal Tribunals 
(c) Payments to Insured Persona 

i,98,o54 


55,960 

(1) Conveyance charges and/or loss of wages 
(a) Incidental charges under family 

72,599 


17.715 

Planning ..... 

4,82,266 



(d) Funara Benefits • .... 

28,621 


80,05,500 

(*) Granta-in-aid ..... 

20,00,000 


1,35,357 

(f) Miscellaneous 

1,49,464 


83,63,252 

Total C — Other Benefits 


29,64,316 


Total Benefits to Insured persons and 



21,55,38,985 

their families ..... 


23,89,64,304 



50 So THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Past 11- - 


Previous Year Head of Account Amount Total 

(1966-67) 


By excess of expenditure over income carried 
over to the Balance Sheet 


Rs. 


Rs. 


41,03,506 


25,33,68,980 Grand Total 


27,17,30,234 


New Delhi 
Dated 31st May, 1968. 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5061 


Previous Year Head of Account Amount Total 

(1966-67) 


Rs. 

Total Brought ForWord 

Rs. 

Rs. 

21,55,38,985 : 

e — Administration Expenses 

23,89,64,304 


(1) Corporation, Standing Committee, 



22,511 

Regional Boards etc, .... 

25,288 


1,91,194 

(2) Principal Officers .... 

2,15,988 


18,18,240 

(3) Other Officers 

19,10,541 


63.70,638 

(4) Ministerial Establishment . 

71,85,554 


12,90,275 

(5) Class IV Servants .... 

14 , 39,856 


25,56,213 

(6) Contingencies ..... 

29,04,916 


1,22,49,071 ! 

Total A—Superintendence 


1,36,82,143 

B — Field Work 



4,20,941 

(1) Officers ...... 

4,86,511 


78,31,074 

(2) Ministerial Establishment . 

89,28,828 


14,36,371 

(3) Class IV Servants .... 

16,12,384 


13,17,274 

(4) Contingencies ..... 

13 , 49,677 


1,10,05,660 

Total B — Field Work 


1,23,77.400 


C — Other Charges 



1,09,748 

(i) Legal Charges ..... 

1,21,697 


34,628 

(2) Insurance Courts .... 

9,105 


12,099 

(3) Publicity & Advertisement . 

(4) Charges for maintaining of Banking 

24,405 


8,465 

Accounts 

11,331 


99,118 

(5) Audit Fees 

(6) Depreciation of Office Buildings, 

78,345 


6,878 

Staff Cars etc. . .... 

79,666 


(7) Repairs, Maintenance of Office Buil- 



22,974 

dings owned by the Corporation . 

2,38,599 



(8) Retirement Benefits 

(a) Pension Reserve Fund for the Em- 



3,50,000 

ployees of the Corpration 

15,50,000 



(b) Corporations Contribution to ESI Cor- 



1,61,443 

poration Provident Fund 

1,62,657 



(c) Interest Paid to the ESI Corporation 



3,47,649 

Provident Fund .... 

4,48,258 



(d) Less interest 6c gain realised on 


( — )35,934 

investment ..... 

(— ) 73»222 



(9) Compassionate Reserve Fund 

5,000 


24,788 

(10) Miscellaneous .... 

651 



(ll) Losses 

422 


11.43,856 

Total C — Other Charges 

26,57,912 


2,43,98,587 

Total 2 — Administration Expenses 


2,87,17,455 


Hospitals and Dispensaries 



5,60,135 

(1) Depreciation of Hospitals Bldgs. & • 
Equipments 

(2) Repairs, Maintenance of Hospitals 

10,21,149 


12,39,371 

Buildings/Dispensaries 

30,27,326 

40,48,475 

17,99,306 

24,17,37,078 

Total Expenditure on Revenue Account . 

To excess of income over expenditure carried 


27,17,30,234 

1,16,31,902 

over to balance sheet .... 



25,33,68,980 

Grand Total 


27,17,30,342 


(V. R. NATESAN) 

Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer 
Employees, State Insurance Corporation 




5062 THE GAZETTE Op INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 



Balance 

Sheet a* on 

N.B. The accounts for the year 1967-68 are still to be audited by the External Auditors. 

Previous Year Liabilities 

(1966-67) 

Amount 

Total 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Balance of Excess of Income over Expenditure 



33392,56)614 As per last Balance sheet .... 

Accumulations (+)/Deficit (-f) during 
1,16,31,902 the year 

35,08,88,516 

(—541,03,506 


35,08,88,516 

(1) Permanent ( Partial and Total ) Disablement 
Benefits Reserve Fund 


34,67,85,010 

3,50,26,762 As per last Balance Sheet .... 
1,20,52,800 Provision made during the year ... 
16,93,819 Interest received from investments 

4,15,91,983 

1,49,60,700 

20,60,979 


4,87,72,381 

71,80,398 LESS Palymcnts made during the year 

5,86,13,662 

95,40,866 


4,15,91,983 


4,90,72,796 

(2) Dependants' Benefits Reserve Fund 



1,32,71,018 As per last Balance Sheet .... 
32,28,700 Provision made during the year . 

7,30,423 Interest received ftom Investments 

1,60,36,205 

31,61,000 

7,68,449 


1,72,30,141 

n,93,936 LESS Payments made during the year 

1,99,65,654 

14,18,728 


1,60,36,205 

(3) Employees* State Insurance Corporation 
Provident Fund 


1,85,46,926 

71,30,227 As per last Balance Sheet .... 

ADD Amount credited during the year 

1 7,55,953 Employees’ Contribution . . . . 

i,6i,443 Corporation Contribution .... 
3,47,649 Interest on Employees’ and Corporation shares 

84,92,610 

26,98,622 

1,62,657 

4,48,258 


93>95>*72 

83393671 LESS Payments made during the year 

1,18,02,147 

11,80,719 


85,55,601 (LESS Amount transferred to Pension 
( — >62,991 Reserve Fund) . 

1,06,21,428 
(— )494 


84,92,610 


1,06,20,934 

(4) Depreciation Reserve fund of Buildings 
for the offices of the Corporation ( including 
Staff quarters) 

2,26,092 As per last Balance Sheet . . . 

. . Provision made during the year 

9,532 Interest received from Investment 

2,35,624 

73,343 

10,374 


2,35,624 


3,I9,34E 

(5) Depreciation Reserve Fund of equipment 
tn Hospitals and Examination Centres 



34,008 As per last Balance Sheet .... 
9,884 Provision made during the year 

1,191 Interest received from investments . 

45,083 

5>7l6 

1,872 


45>o83 


52,671 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 506$ 


31 March 1968 


Previous Year 

(1966-67) 


Amount 


Lands and Buildings (wholly owned by the Corporation) 
(a) Buildings for offices of the Corporation 
( [moulding Staff quarters) 


66,40,306 As per last Balance Sheet 
8,38,881 Additions during the year 


74,79,187 


( b ) Hospitals and Dispensaries 


5.90.94.474 As per last Balance Sheet 

2.66.21.475 Additions during the year 


74 ,79 ,i 87 
31,41,684 

1,06,21,051 

8,57,15,949 

3,00,50,261 


8,47,949 it, 

9,31,95,136 

Lands and Buildings ( Jointly owned by the Corporation 
and State Governments) Corporation’s share 

(a) Hospitals and Dispensaries 

4,05,331 As per last Balance Sheet .... 

, . Additions during the year 

4,05,331 

(b) Equipments for Hospitals etc. 

49,680 As per last Balance Sheet .... 
Additions during the year 

49,680 

4,55,oii 


11,57,66,210 


Suspense (Advance for construction of Hospitals, 
their equipments, Office Buildings) 

9,79,41,642 As per last Balance Sheet .... 
4,26,68,621 ADD Payments made during the year 

14,06,10,263 

3,57,27,903 LESS Adjustments & Recoveries 
10,48,82,360 

Staff Cars 

84,149 As per last Balance Sheet .... 

. ■ ADD Payments made during the year 

84,149 

Permanent Advance to the Heads of Offices of 
the Corporation 

'i,8i6 As per last Balance Sheet .... 
1,265 ADD Payments made during the year 


LESS Recoveries made during the year 

23,081 

Advance of Pay on transfer to the Employees of 
the Corporation 

10,258 As per last Balance Sheet . 

64,036 ADD Payments made during the year 


4,05,331 

2,74,291 

6,79,622 


10,48,82,360 

4,47,10,839 

14,95,93,199 

3,55,96,001 


23,081 

1,755 

24,836 

240 


18,811 

4J,ooo 


12,63,87,26c 


7,29,302: 


n,39,97,i9 8 


98,94c 


24,596 


74,294 

55,483 LESS Recoveries made during the year 


18,811 


63,811 

57,728 


6 S 083 


5064 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTTKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


Previous Ycer Liabilities Amount Total 

(1966-67) 


Rs. 


7 , 14,095 

5,50,25t 

32,623 


(6) Depreciation on Reserve Fund of Hospital, 
Buddings 

As per last Balance Sheet 
Provision made during the year . 

Interest received from investments 


Rs. Rs. 


12,96,969 

10,15,434 

65,432 


12,96,969 23,77,835 

(7) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Staff Cars 

54,295 As per last Balance Sheet .... 63,739 

6,8 78 Provision made during the year . . 6,323 

2,565 Interest received from Investments . . 3,427 


63,739 

(8) Repairs and Maintenance Reserve Fund of 
Buildings for the O fficts of the Corporation 

3,90,77° As per last Balance Sheet .... 3,66,362 

22,974 Provision made during the year - . • 2,38,499 

16,93a Interest received on Investments . 22,006 


73,489 


4,30,676 6,27,767 

64,314 LESS Payments made during the year 41,706 


3,66,362 


5,86,061 


(9) Repairs and Maintenance Reserve Fund 
Account 0 . Hospitals 

10,84,840 As per last Balance Sheet .... 22,47,301 

[22,39,371 Provision made during the year . . . 30,27,326 

50,770 Interest received on Investments . . 1,15,164 


23,74,981 53,89,791 

1,27,680 LESS Payments made during the year . 6,848 


22,47,301 


(10) Pens ion Reserve Fund for the Employees 
of the Corporation 

44,80,634 As per last Balance Sheet .... 51,00,509 

3,50,000 Provision made during the year . . . 21,72,177 

2,22,620 Interest and gain received on Investments . 3,13,496 


50,53,254 75,86,182 

15,736 LESS Payments made during the year . 18,308 


50,37,518 .75,67,874 

62,991 ADD Amount transferred f rom Employees’ 

State Insurance Corporat on Provident Fund 494 


51,00,509 

(11) Compassionate Reserve Fund for the Em- 
ployees of the E.S.I. Corporation. 

Provision made during the year , . . 5,000 

Interest received on Investments . 

LESS Payments made during the year 


53,82,943 


75,68,368 


5,000 



Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5065 


Previous Year Assets Amount Total 

(1966-67) 


Rs. 

Advanee of T.A. on transfer to the Employees 
of the Corpn. 

19,386 As per last Balance Sheet . 

72,978 ADD Payments made during the year . 


92,364 

61,316 LESS Recoveries made during the year 


31,04s 

Advance for purchase of Conveyance to the Em- 
ployees of the Corporation 
2,79,282 As per last Balance Sheet , 

2 , 89,440 ADD Payments made during the year 


3,68,722 

2,17,506 LESS Recoveries made during the year 


3,5!, 216 


House Building Advance 

19,180 As per last Balance Sheet 
3,320 ADD Payments made during the year . 


48,700 

1 ,928 LESS Recoveries made during the year 


Rs. 


31,048 

64,424 


95,472 

70,456 


3,51,216 

3,88,479 


7,39,695 

2,60,831 


46,772 

31,420 


78,192 

5,628 


46,772 


Miscellaneous Advances to the Employees of the 
Corporation 
(Festival Advances') 


1,07,520 As per last Balance Sheet . . . . ■ i,37,552 

3,22,430 ADD Payments made during the year- 4,06,866 


4,29,950 5,44,418 

2,92,398 LESS Recoveries made during the year . 3,66,638 


1,37,552 

Advance Payments on behalf of State Governments 


959 As per last Balance Sheet .... 1,459 

3,949 ADD Payments made during the year . . 4,279 

4,908 5,738 

3,449 LESS Recoveries made during the year . 4,657 


i,459 


Rs. 


25,016 


4,78,864 


72,364 


1,77,780 


1,081 


Advance to the Reserve Bank of India for the 
Purchase of Securities. 

1,32,696 As per Balance Sheet .... 

( — )i, 32,969 ADD Payments made during the year . 


LESS Adjustment made during the year 



50 66 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


Previous Year Liabilities Amount Total 

(1966-67) 


Rs. 

Deposits of Securities e.g. Contractors 

Rs. 

82,401 

92,i59 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
ADD Deposits during the year 

87,432 

1,14,588 

i, 74.56 o 

87,128 

LESS Deposits repaid during the year . 

2 j02 ,020 

99.983 

.87,432 

Duductions from bills payable to other parties 


15,555 

3,35,282 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
ADD Amount credited during the year 

41,432 

3,71,228 

3,50,837 

3,09,403 

LESS Payments made during the year 

4,12,660 

3,86,157 

4G432 

Unclaimed deposits in the Employees State 
Insurance Corporation Provident Fund 


6,493 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
ADD Amount credited during the year 

9j6o6 

I S 2Q2 

9,606 

LESS Payments made during the year 

10,808 

2,893 

19,606 

Miscellaneous Deposits 


50,937 

2,48,127 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
LESS Deposits repaid during the year 

ADD Deposits received during the year 

2,99,064 

1,87,766 

2,99,064 


Rs. 


1 >02,037 


26,503 


7,915 


1,12,298 


Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5067 


Previous Year Assets Amount Total 

(1966-67) 


Rs. R- 3 - Rs - 

Amount advanced to State Govts./ State P.W.D. 
etc. towards repairs Si maintenance of Hospitals/ 

Dispensaries / Annexies etc. wholly owned by the 
Corporation. 


— As per last Balance Sheet . 

16,79,774 ADD Payments made during the year 

12 , 79,773 

5 , 52 , 93 ° 


16 , 79,774 

4,00,001 

LESS Adjustments made during the year 

18 , 32,703 

, 6,848 


12 , 79,773 

Miscellaneous Advances 


[18,25,855 

5 , 87,546 

2,21,707 

As per last Balance Sheet 

ADD Payments made during the year . 

6,02,164 

5,15,229 


8,09,253 

2,07,809 

LESS Receipts during the year 

1 1 , 17,393 
2,09,510 


6,02,164 

Loans granted to State Governments 


9,07,883 

72,69,766 

x,oo,ooo 

As per last Balance Sheet , 

ADD Payments made during year 

73 , 69,766 


73 , 69,766 

1 • 

Remittances 


73 , 69,766 


Cash Remittances 



20,04,500 

39 , 29 , 46 , 6 i 8 

As per last Balance Sheet . 

ADD Debits adjusted during the year 

6,11,000 
. 41,94,34,109 


39 , 49 » 5 i,ii 8 

39,43,40,1x8 

LESS Credits adjusted during the year 

42,00,45,109 
. 42,00,11,009 


6,11,000 

Other Remittances — Exchange Account 


34,100 

24,549 

4 , 45 , 46 , 9 X 3 

As per last Balance Sheet 

ADD Debits during the year 

. 167 

4,62,87,672 


4 , 45 , 71,462 

4,45,71,295 

LESS Credits during the year 

4,62,87,839 

4,62,85,579 


167 

INVESTMENTS AT COST 
( 1 ) Permanent ( Partial & Total) 
Disablement Benefit Reserve Fund. 


2,200 

3,18,50,746 

96,86,600 

As per last Balance Sheet 

ADD Investments made during the year. 

4 , 15 , 37,346 

75 , 74,966 


4 , 15 , 37,346 


4 , 91 , 12,312 


LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of 
— Investments .... 

50,208 



4 , 15 , 37,346 


4,90,62,104 



5068 The GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 1 4 , 1891 [Part ll— 


Previous Year 

( 1966 - 67 ) 

Liabilities 

Amount 

Total 

Rs, 


Rs. 

Rs. 




Sec. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5069 


Psevious Year 
1966-67) 

Assets 

Amount 

Total 

Rs. 

(2) Dependants’ Benefit Reserve Fund 

Rs. 

Rs. 

1,29,65,701 

30,53,000 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
ADD Investments made during the year 

1,60,18,701 

26,89,575 


1,60,18,701 

DESS Realisation on maturity' or sale of In- 
vestments ...... 

1,87,08,276 

1,73,569 


1,60,18,701 

70,27,600 

9,02,500 

(3) Employees' State Insurance Corporation 
Provident Fund 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
ADD Investments made during the year 

79,30,100 

26,83,688 

1,85,34,707 

79,30,100 

LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of in- 
vestments 

1,06,13,788 

1,700 


79,30,100 

LESS Amount transferred to Pension Reserve 

1,06,12,088 


79,30,100 

(4) Depredation Reserve Fund of Buildings 
for the offices of the Corporation ( Including 

Staff quarters) 


1,06,12,088 

i, 75.<488 

52,000 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
HDD Investments made during the year 

2,27,488 

90,302 


2,27,488 

LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of in- 
vestments ...... 

3 , 17,790 

1 


2,27,488 

(5) Depreciation Reserve Fund of equipments in 
Hospitals and Examination Centres 


3,17,790 

27,900 

11,000 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
ADD Investments made during the year 

33,900 

18,700 


38,900 


52,600 


5,000 

LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of 

— 


33,900 

(6) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Hospital 
Buildings 


52,600 

3,35,500 

3,82,000 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
ADD Investments made during the year 

7, I 7,500 

16,27,960 


7,17,500 

(7) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Staff Cars 


23,45,46o 

42,000 

24,000 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
ADD Investments made during the year 

54,000 

175493 


66.000 

12.000 

LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of 

71,493 


54,000 



71,493 



5070 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part 11 — 


Previous Year Liabilities Amount Total 

(1966-67) 


Rs. 


Rs. Rs. 


42,68,02,435 


Grand Total 


44,16,40,127 


New Delhi, 

Dated the 31st May, 1968. 




Sec. 3(ii)j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 507 I 


Previous Year Assets Amount Total 

(1966-67) 


Rs. 

(8) Repairs & Maintenance Reserve Fund of 
Buildings for the offices of the Corporation 
(i including Staff quarters) 

Rs. 

Rs. 

1,81,727 

2,29,000 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
ADD Investments made during the year 

3,61,227 
2,12, 18J 


4,10,727 

49,500 

LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of 

5,73, 412 


3,61,227 

(9) Repairs & Maintenance Reserve 
Hospital Buildings 

Fund of 

5,73,412 

3.65.600 

7.21.600 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
ADD Investments made during the year 

10,85,600 

25,02,787 


10,87,200 
i, 600 

LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of 

35,88,387 


10,85,600 

investiiltnts 

(10) Pension Reserve Fund for the Employees 
of the Corporation 


35,88,387 

37,73,555 

11,25,800 

As per last Balance Sheet .... 
ADD Investments made during the year 

48,58,513 

28,07,939 


48,99,355 

40,842 

LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of 

76,66,452 

1,00,000 


48,58,513 

T. iivwtiiicnt s 

General Cash Balances 


75,66,452 

15,29,89,395 

2,97,96,000 

Investments as per last Balance Sheet 

ADD Investments during the year 

12,14,39,634 

3,18,58,300 


18,27,85,395 

6,I3,45,76 i 

LESS Realisation on maturity or sales of 

15,32,97,934 

8,12,20,775 


12,14,39,634 


7,20,77,159 


6,14,965 

2,28,33,996 

Cash in hand ...... 

Cash with Bankers ..... 

6,73,580 

2,40,26,346 


2,34,48,961 


2,46,99,926 


14,48,88,595 

Total Cash Balance 


9,67,77,085 

42,68,02,435 

Grand Total 


44,16,40,127 


V.R. Natesan, 

Financial Adviser Gf Chief Accounts Officer 
Employees State Insurance Corporation. 


5072 THE GAZETTE OF INDTA: NOVEMBER J 5, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part N— 

appendix 

Administrative Cost compared 

<952-53 1953-54 1954-53 i955-5<5 1956-57 1957-58 1958-59 1959-6® 


I. Total 
Admi- 
nistra- 
te* cost 21,01,430 24,72,797 34.7?, 578 44,64,591 50,58,982 62,36,431 72,74.965 90,85,02* 

riw 

Employ- 
er*' Spe- 
cial Con- 

tributlon i, JI, 40,677 176,43,593 1,87,89,480 2,25,29,288 2,59,39,404 2,83,41,328 2,90,24,081 3,18,53,731 

(b) Hinplyoee’a 
Contri- 
bution 3°, 73, 643 34,69,007 97.26,312 2,39,61,290 3,33,02,834 3,53,35.954 3.81.11,950 4,08,09,353 


1,63,14,320 2,11,13,600 2,85,15,792 4.54,90,578 5,81,43,238 


6,35,77,283 6,71.36,031 7,26,62,983 


III. 

Total 
outgoing. 
(Expen- 
diture 
on Re- 
venue 


oiintfl) 

28,45,457 

49, 53, 181 

8l.91.943 

1,80,64,180 

3,88,30,091 

4.37.99,697' 

4,87,90,810 6,16,46,323 

IV 

Total 

Benefits 

7.44.037 

14,80,384 

47,19.365 

1,35.99,589 

3,37,71 109 

3,75.63|l66 

4,15,13,845 5,25,61.301 

Ratio of 
Admlnls' 
trative 
Co»t of 








II 

13-96% 

11-71% 

12- 18% 

9-60% 

8-7% 

9-8% 

10,84% 12-50% 

III 

75-85% 

49-93% 

43-40% 

24-71% 

17-55% 

14-1% 

14-92% 14-74% 

tv 

282-43% 

99-69% 

73-6-2% 

31-83% 

21-28% 

16-6% 

17-5% 17-28% 


Notcj IV does not include shore of benefit expenditure borne by the State Government.. 


6ec. 3 (ii) 1 THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTTKA 24, 1891 5073 


XX I 

Benefit* paid etc. 

1960-61 1961-62 

T9S2-63 

1963-64 1964-65 

1965-66 

1966-67 

1967-68 

1,00,43,343 1,13. 4.8,361 

1.30.94,914 

I»50,85,724 1,87,63568 

2,22,53,618 

2,61,98.093 

2,87,17,455 

3,73.62,109 4 , 01 , 53, 612 

6,33,66,263 

8,10,90,051 9,96,74.412 

11,67,12,836 

i?, 93, 37. Jo? 

13,64,06,90 

5*01,07,123 5,43,20. 32 » 

6,01.63,840 

6,64,13,980 8,87,93,177 

10,39,69,96-i 

11,50,80,309 

12,44,28,148 

8,74,69,134 9.44,73,636 12, 35,35, 105 

14,75,04,031 18,84,67,589 

22.06,82,800 

24,44.17,412 

16,08,35,057 


,97.83,125 

8,44,97,977 

11,34,14.803 11.35,56,131 15,57,57,161 

20,66,89,322 

24.17,37.078 

27,17,30,234 

97139,881 

7,31.49,716 

10,03,19,889 10,84,70,407 13,69,93,593 

18,44,35.704 

21,35,38,985 

23,89,64,304 


17-48% 

12-01% 

10-43% 

10-23% 

9- 86% 

10- 08% 

10-72% 

H-OI% 

14 - 39 % 

13-43% 

n-55% 


14 05% 

10-76% 

10-84% 

io-57% 

16- 80% 

15-31% 

13-05% 

1391% 

13-69% 

12 - 06% 

12-15% 

12-02% 


[No. F. 4/15/68-HI.] 






5074 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, I969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II— 


New Delhi, the 1st November 1969 

S.O. 4612. — In exercise of the poweivs conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government, having regard to 
the location of the Mechanical and Electrical Workshops, Ahmedabad, and Auto 
Workshop, Ahmedabad, belonging to Oil and Natural Gas Commission, in an im- 
plemented area, hereby exempts the said workshops from the payment of the em- 
ployer’s special contribution ievlable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a 
period of one year with effect from the 1 5th October, 1969. 

[File No, 6/72/69-HI.] 


New Delhi, the 3rd November 1969 

S.O, 4613. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 88 of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby exempts 
the regular employees of the Design and Development Centre, Okhla, of the All 
India Handicrafts Board, New Delhi, from the operation of the said Act for a 
period of one year from the date of publication of this notification in the Official 
Gazette, subject to the following conditions, namely : — 

(j) that the aforesaid centre shall maintain a register showing the names 
and designation of the exempted employees; and 
(11) that, notwithstanding this exemption, the employees shall continue to 
receive such benefits under the said Act to which he might have 
qualified on the basis of contribution paid before the date of 
exemption. 

[No. F. 6(20) /69-Hf.] 


New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 

8.0. 4614.— Whereas the State Government of Haryana has in pursuance of 
clause (d) of section 4 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948). 
nominated Shri H. S. Achreja, Secretary to Government of Haryana, Labour and 
Employment Departments, to represent that State on the Employees’ State In- 
surance Corporation In place of Shri R I. N. Ahuja; 

And, whereas, the State Government of Punjab has in pursuance of clause (d) 
of section 4 of the Employees' State Insurance Act. 1948, (34 of 194B1, nominated 
Shri B. L. Kukkar, Secretary to the Government of Punjab, Health and Family 
Planning Departments, to represent that State on the Employees’ State Insurance 
Corporation in place of Shri Paramjlt Singh; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 4 of the Employees' State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948) the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No. S.O. 2551,' dated 9th August 1966, namely:— 

In the said notification under the heading “(Nominated by the State Govern- 
ments under clause (d) of section 4)”, 

(1) for the entry against item 11A. the following entry shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

"Shri H. S. Achreja, Secretary to the Government of Elaryana, Labour and 
Eployment Departments, Chandigarh.” 

(il) for the entry against item 18 the following entry shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

"Shri B. L. Kukkar, Secretary to the Government, of Punjab, Health and 
Family Planning Departments, Chandigarh.” 

[No. F. 3/2/ 69-HI-Pt.I. ] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 1st November 1969 

SO 4615 In the notification of the Government of India In the Ministry 

of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ- 
ment) No. S.O. 2514, dated the 20th June, 1969, published In the Gazette of India, 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5075 


Part 11-Section 3-sub-section (11), dated the 28th June, 1969 at page 2624, in 
line 3 for "Palayamkottai’’ read “Pudukottai”, 

[No. F. 6(8) /68-HI-] 
DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 3rd November 1969 

(14 S '°' 1947 8 ), the ^entea^GovCTnment hereby ^ubRshes^the toil 1 ™!* 8 Act ’ 1847 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta in the industrial rtlcWc/fw iollowi j 1 C award of 
in relation to the Commissioners for the Port rf Slenttn emp l° yers 

which was received by the Central Government on tL 20th October 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 


Parties: 


Reference No. 50 of 1969 


Employers in relation to the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta 

And 

Their Workmen. 

PRESENT: 

Shri B- N. Banerjee, Presiding Officer. 

Appeahancgs: 

On beha'f of Employers -Shri R. N. Ghosal, Deputy Secretary. 

On behalf of Workmen — Shri Satyen Banerjee. Advocate. 

State : West Bengal T 

* Industry: Port. 

AWARD 

r 28/130/07-LRIII, dated December, 11, 1968 the Government nr 

rnhm'i ln the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment), referred the following Industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Commissioners for the PorTof Catoutta and their 

workmen, to this Tribunal, for adjudication, namely: Calcutta and their 

"Whether having regard to its Circular No. 7354 dated 2nd June 1958 the 
management of the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta ’was 
justified in counting the seniority of Shri Ajit Kumar Ghosh LDC 

JTnmJ ?£ transfer t0 Head from the Boat Registra- 

tion Office on the 10th January, 1964? If not, to what relief is the 
workman entitled? 

before 1 th1s d TVihnn^ id Lth e rh i3PUte u mySelf ' ^ ter s ° me arguments were addressed 
before this Tribunal, both the parties came forward with a joint application for 

compromise and prayed that an award be passed in terms contained to the 
compiomise petition- I find the terms fully and completely settles the dispute- 

settlement conipro ' nIse lawful. I therefore pass an award in terms of the 
settlement. Bet the petition of compromise form part of this award- 


(Sd.) B. N. Banerjee, 
Presiding Officer. 


Dated , October 10, 1969. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 

In the matter of Government of India, Ministry of Labour, Employment 

Nn d PIM7 n Lab ! ur Snd Order 

No. 28/130/67-LRIII, dated 11th December, 1963. 

And 

In the matter of an industrial dispute 

Between 

The Employers In relation to the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta— 
Employers. 


And 


r-pi ■ 

Their workmen representated by the National Union of Waterfront Workers, 
10, Mohan Chand Road, Calcutta-23— Workmen. 



5076 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Pakt II - 


Reference No, 50 or 1969 

I- The humble joint application of the aforesaid parties in the aforesaid matter, 
Most respectfully sheweth : — 

That the aforesaid dispute has been amicably settled between the parties on 
the following terms : — 

A, That the matter is settled by consent of the parties, 

B. That Shri Ajit Kumar Ghosh will be transferred back to the office o£ 

the Superintendent, Boat Registration at Sibpore, Howrah in his own 
capacity and the seniority of Shrl Ghosh in the said Boat Registration 
Office will be continued to be counted from the date of his appoint- 
ment in that office in supersession of the Order conveyed in the 
Secretary, Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta’s letter No. 7354/DC, 
dated 10th January, 1967 to the Director, Marine Department, 

2 . That the petitioners humbly sutJmit that the terms are just and reasonable. 

In the circumstances the petitioners humbly pray that your Lordship may 
be graciously pleased to pass an Award in the matter in terms cf 
the aforesaid terms of settlement and pass such further order or 
orders as your Lordship may seem fit and proper. 

And for this act of kindness, the petitioners, as in duty bound shall ever pray. 

Dated, October 10, 1969. 

For the Workmen-, Eor ^ le Employers: 

S. N. Banerjee, Advocate L - Mittal, 

Director, Marine Department, 

Workman, Shri Ajit Kumar Ghosh, Calcutta Port Commissioners. 

[No. 23/130/67-LR.-IIT.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 

S O 4617. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis- 
pute' exists betweens the employers in relation to the 

Cuttack District. Orissa, and their workman in respect of the matters „,pc< itled m 
the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer th e said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of 3 ub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), 9 en *£® 1 ^ 

ernment hereby refers the said dispute far adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal. 
Calcutta, constituted under section 7A oi the sal 1 Act. 

Schedule 

'‘Whether the action of the management of Paradeep Port Trust In ret rench- 
ins Shri J Mall. Work Sarkar, with effect from .list August, 1966. was 
justified- If not to what relief Is the workman entitled? 

[No. 28(97)/68-LRIII.] 

C. RAMDAS, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 3rd November 1969 

CO 4618 —In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
m ir 194 1 the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 

BurdwCand S workmen, which was received by the Central Govern- 
ment on the 27th October, 1960. 



Sec, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5077 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 56 of 1969 

Parties; 

Employers In relation to the management of Sr ip nr Colliery owned by 
Messrs Lodna Colliery Company (1920) Limited. 

And 

Their Workmen. 


Present: — 

Shri B. N. Banerjee, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances ; 

On behalf of Employers ■ — Shri Durgapada Roy, Advocate. 

On behalf of Workmen — Shri Mahinder Singh. 

State; West Bengal. Industry: Coal Mines. 


AWARD 

By Order No. 6/180/68-LRII, dated July 22, 1969, the Government oi India, in 
I he Ministry ol Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department ol Labour 
and Employment), referred the following industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the management of Sripur Colliery owned by Messrs Lodna Colliery 
Company (1920) Limited and their workmen, to this Tribunal, for adjudication, 
flu mely : 

‘‘Whether the dismissal of Shri Abdul Barik, Head Fitter, with effect 1'rom 
the 11th November. 1968 by the management of Sripur Colliery 
Company (1920) Limited, Post Office Kalipahari, District Burdwan, 
was Justified? If not, to what relief is the w irkman entitled?” 

2. Neither party filed any written statement in this matter. There was a joint 
petition ol compromise tiled settling the dispute. Now that 1 fine, that the dispute 
has been settled by the parties on the basis of the compromise, I pass an award 
ia terms thereof. Let the petition of compromise form paT of this award 


Dated, October 6 , 1969' 

(Sd.) B. N. Banerjee, 
Presiding Officer. 

BEFORE THE HONOURABLE PRESIDING OFFICER, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 
INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL. CALCUTTA. 

In the matter of Reference No. 56 ol 1969. 

And 

In the matter of parties ; Employers In relation to Sripur Colliery. 

And 

Their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Congress (H.M.S.)- 
In the above matter the humble parties viz., the Company and the Union most 
respectfully sheweth and crave His Lordship s indulgence to accomodate 
amicable settlement so effected by the parties . 

1 Sri Abdul Barik has accepted the transfer and he Is now working at Lodna 
Colliery having all the emoluments so far so enjoyed by him. 

2. The dismissal order stands withdrawn and moperat ^ The nr.anag^ ement 
agrees and shall pay 50 per cent of hi s wages and othei benefits for the vnoi 
period of idleness arose out of the dispute. , , , , , 

t The oarties are humbly praying and craving your Lordships Indulgence and 

SeS u! «Lid«r m. fpt and proper 11 your Lordahrp so pta.es 

For .hi. act o< kindness, the humble parties ,i„ duly bouud^holl^very 

For the Employers: Mahinder Singh. 

Durgapada Roy, Advocate. [No _ e/2 30/68-LRII.] 



5078 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Tarj II— 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 4 th November 1969 

S.O. 4619. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management o t Ballarpur 
Colliery of Messrs Ballarpur Collieries Company Limited, Post Office Ballarpur 
(District Chandrapur) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed; 

dispute’ to^l%udlcmon M G ° vernment conslder * « desirable to refer the said 

"O". therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
1 947 A* 0 ? 0f sect i°u 10 Of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 

L!),t7), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 

m' V 't D f°’ a a p ^® sld ! n S Officer with headquarters at Nagpur and refers the 
said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

Schedule 

“Whether the management of Ballarpur Colliery of Messrs Ballarpur Colli- 

Rnm S N f Q. npany was J us tilled in dismissing Sarvaghri Rajaram 

Ram Narayan Shukla, ex-Sand Slusher Khalasi and Anandi Ram 

S yan Tf S nn U t W t' H i uI ? ge Khalasi with effect from the 17th May! 
1969? If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled?” 

[No. 3/7/69-LRIIJ 

dispute for Adjudication I 1 "' 11 GoVernment insiders it desirable to refer the said 

ofss IS 'Lists* 


Schedule 

sjut Nov ' rabe ‘ ,m "• “ 

[No. 2/ 132/ 69'LR.IL] 


New Delhi, the 5th November 


1969 


tlfciMe taSS/Si 0 “ n,ro1 Government it d«l™bj. to rotor th. told 

. niDunai, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the action of the management of Chora No. 10 Pit Colliery Post 

R(Aist^ a Ron' P 1S i riCt Bur hwan in stopping Shri Lakshi Patl Deogharia, 
Register Keener from work with effect from 25th Julv, 1969 is justh 
tied. If not, to what relief is the workman entitled?” 

[No, 6/72/68-LRIL] 
P. C. MISRA, Under Secy. 



Sec. 3(ii)l THE GA2ETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTlKA 24, 1891 5079 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1969 

S.O. 4622. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 83 
of the Mines Act, 1952, (35 of 1952), and in continuation of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation, 
Department of Labour and Employment No. S O. 3769, dated the 15th October, 
1968, the Central Government hereby exempts the marble mines in Makarana, 
District Nagaur, Rajasthan, from all the provisions of the said Act, lor a further 
period of one year commencing from the 15th October, 1969- 

LNo. 1/29/63-M.I-] 
J. D, TEWARI, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 

S.O. 4623. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1047 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation 10 the Punjab National Bank Limited and their workmen, which was 
received by the Central Government on the 1st November, 1969. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-CUM-LABOUR 

COURT, JABALFUR 

Dated October 24, I960 


Resent : 

Shri G. C. Agarwala — Presiding Officer, 

Case No. CGIT/LC (R) (6) of I960 

Parties . 

Employers in relation to the Punjab National Bank Limited. 

Versus 

Its workmen represented through th* M. P. Bank Employees Association, 
Raipur. 

Appearances ; 

For Bank . — Sri R. P. Raizada, Staff Officer of the Bank. 

For Workmen . — Sri P. N, Sharma, President, M. P, Bank Employees' Associa- 
tion, 64, Kingsway Cantt. Jabalpur (M.P.) 

Industry: Bank, District: Gwalior (M.P.). 


AWARD 

By Notification No. 23/127/68-LRIII, dated 6th February 1909, the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment), 
Government of India referred the following matter of dispute as slated in the 
schedule to the order of reference to this Tribunal, for adjudication: — 

Matter of Dispute 

Whether the action of the management of the Punjab National Bank Limited, 
Naya Bazar, Lashkar, Gwalior in not all owing annual increment to 
Shri P. C. Nagpal, Clerk-eum-Godown . Keeper in his grade from the 
25th January, 1908 was justified? If not, to what relief is he entitled? 

2, The facts are short and simple. The workman concerned, Shri P. C. Nagpal, 
was appointed as a temoprary Clerk-citm-Godown Keeper by the Bank on 25th 
January, 1965 to look after the godowns of M/s, Saund Zweried Union Private 
Limited at the cost of the borrowers. Since he was a graduate his starting 
basic salary was Rs. 140 under the Desal award which was In force at that 
time, With the enforcement of the Bi-partite settlement with effect from 1st 
January, 1906 his basic pay was reflxed at .Rs. 154, He continued to earn incre- 
ments of Rs. 6 each, the first one on 25th January, 1966 and another one on 



-o8o i HL GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KART1KA 24, 1891 [Pari II— 


26th January, 1067, thereby raising his salary to Rs, 166. He had a continuous 
appointment without break, Subsequently, he was appointed as a probationer 
on 21st February, 1987. While appointing Rim as a probationer, the Bank gave 
him the Initial start of Rs. 166 per month, namely, pay which he was drawing 
including increments which he had earned. He had not been appointed 
on the initial starting salary of Rs, 154. He was, however, not allowed the third 
increment on 25th January, 1968 but was allowed to draw his increment from 
21st February, 1967, the date of appointment as a probationer, with the result 
that he could draw his third increment on 21st February, 1968 instead of 26th 
January, 1968. The Union M. P. Bank Employees Association of which he was 
a member took up the dispute in conciliation and which resulted in this reference. 
The following additional issues framed in the case will show the points in con~ 
troversy: 


Additional Issues 

1. Whether the dispute is not an Industrial dispute? 

2. Was Shri Nag Pal workman concerned a temporary Godown Keeper till 

21st February, 1967 and was not entitled to graded Increment as 
a Clerk before that date?. 

3. As in order of reference? 


Findings 

Issue No. 1, — This plea has been lightly taken without any serious effort on 
the part of the Bank to substantiate it. The Union, however, has filed docu- 
ments that Sri P. C. Nagpal was a member of the Union. Exts; W/10 to W/14 
are true copies of Membership register showing that in the years 1968 and 1960, 
Sri P. C. Nagpal was a member of the Union- Exts. W/4 to W/0 are slips which 
show that the Bank used to deduct membership subscription and remit the 
same to the Union. Ex, W/3 is membership application dated 13th September, 
1966- This will show that Sri Nagpal became a member of the Union soon after 
he joined the service. Ex. W/2 is a requisition signed by 20 members of 
employees of the Naya Bazar Lashkar Branch of the Bank who called upon the 
Secretary to sponsor the dispute. Sri Nagpal himself by an application dated 
7th October, 1068 (Ex. W/l) complained to the Union that be has been denied 
increment from the due date. The dispute, therefore, ceased to be an individual 
dispute but became an industrial dispute. 

Issue No. 2,- — That Sri Nagpal was initially a temporary employee is not 
specifically denied by the Union in their rejoinder. That he was so appointed by 
the Bank Is manifest by a large number of documents tiled in the case. Ex. E/1 
is an extract from attendance register and Ex. E/2 is also an extract from the 
supplementary salary bill for the month of January, 1966. It would show 
that initially he was appointed In some leave arrangement but from 28th January, 
1066, he had been appointed at borrowers cost, namely M/s. Saund Zwerled Union 
Pvt. Ltd. He continued to look after the god owns of this party throughout and 
at the borrowers cost as would appear from monthly statements submitted by 
the Bank Ex, E/3. Exts. E/4 and E/5 are two letters dated 18th May, 1966 and 
25th May, 1966 to the District Manager and the Staff Manager respectively in 
which it was intimated that Sri Nagpal will have to be detained so long the 

party continued to deal with the Bank, The original application of Sri Nagpal 

dated 1st June, 1965 would show that he had been working as a Godown- keeper 
of this firm and in another application dated 28th February, 1966 he requested to 
be absorbed permanently. It followed, therefore, that he had been a temporary, 
employee. Sri R, P. Raizada, Staff Officer, affirmed the fact in Ms evidence and 
there was no cross-examination on behalf of the Union. No evidence was pro- 
duced in rebuttal by the Union. The fact, therefore, remains that he was a 
temporary Godown Keeper appointed to look after the godowns of a party and 
at the cost of the borrowers. 

The next question, however, is whether his past services could be accounted 
for towards Increments when he was appointed as a probationer by the Bank 
on 21st February, 1967. There is no specific provision in this regard either in 

the 'Sastry award or in the Desai award or even in the Bi-partite settlement. 

Tire Sastry award in paragraph 490 merely recommended that as far as possible 
such temporary godown keepers who are appointed at borrowers cost should 
be made permanent after the expiry of one year. There was a similar recom- 
mendation in paragraph 20.13 of the Bi-partite settlement. There is, however, 
no specific provision whether on appointment as a probationer previous services 
would count or not for the purpose of increment. "When the Bank had appointed 



SEC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER IS, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5081 


Sri Nagpal on a salary of Rs 106 which he was drawing and not the initial 
starting pay, It Is obvious that the Bank had treated his past services for the 
purpose of increment. The argument that it was a gesture of goodwill only Is on 
the face of It untenable. This could not have been a gratltuous and benevolent act 
on the part of the Bank. The Bank in other words seemed to have conceded 
the position that Sri Nagpal was entitled to his Increments which he had already 
earned as a temporary Godown Keeper. There is no justification to postpone hi 3 
increments just because the post of an extra Godown Keeper was sanctioned 
only in January, 1968. Nothing has been said about It in the appointment 
letter dated 21st February, 1967 (Ex. E/ll). There is no indication in the rules 
of the Bank that a probationer will not be entitled to increments which he 
might have earned during temporary appointment. The Bank relied on an award 
recorded by this Tribunal In Reference case No. CGIT/LC(R)(ll )/68 published 
in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3(11) dated August 3, 1983/Sravana 12, 
1890 at page 3640. That was a case of a Peon, Sri Bhanwarlal Pangaria, In 
Bhllwara Branch. The facts are quite distinguishable. It would appear that 
there had been several breaks in his service and his appointments were for short 
period as temporary peon. The Bank appointed him as a probationer and did 
not treat his past service towards his pay on fresh appointment. In this parti- 
cular case Sri Nagpal had been in continuous appointment and the Bank itself 
had counted his past service while giving him a higher start as a probationer. 
As a matter of fact, another case decided by this Tribunal No, CGIT/LC(R) (22)/68 
which concerned the case of one Sri M. L. Anand a clerk at the Jabalpur Cantt. 
Office of the Bank is more apposite to the facts of the present case. This case 
is published In the Gazette of India, Part II, Sec. 3(h) at page 3087 dated June 
22, 1968/Asadha 1, 1890. It Is, therefore, held that he was entitled to the graded 
Increment from 25th January, 1968. 


Decision 

The result Is that the issue under reference is answered in negative. Sri 
P. C. Nagpal Is entitled to his graded Increment from 25th January, 1968 and 
not from 21st February, 1968. The Union will be entitled to Rs. 100 as coats 
from the Bank. 


(Sd.) G. C. Agakwala, Presiding Officer. 

24-10-1969'. 

[No. 23/127/08/LRIII.J 

S.O. 4024. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing further amendment in the notification of the Government of India In the 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. 2110, dated the 19th June, 1967. 

In the Table annexed to the said notification, the following Serial No. and en- 
tries shall be inserted, namely: — 

1 2 3 


“28. The Labour Enforcement 
Officer (Central), Gauhatl. 


The States of Asam and Nagaland and the union 
territories of Manipur and Tripura.” 


[No. F. 1/76/69-L-R.I.l 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 3rd November 1969 

8,0. 4625. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to the Beas Project, Talwara and 
their workmen In respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 






5082 THE GA Z OF INDIA: NOV. 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Past II— Sec. 3(H)] 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1047 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri F. P, R- Sawhney shhll be the Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Chandi- 
garh and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

Schedule 

Whether the management of Beas Dam Project was justified in paying half 
wages to Shri Bhagat Singh, Driver, for the period of suspension 
between the 9th December 1904 and 25th January 1965? If not, to 
what relief is the workman entitled? 

[No. 4/ 102/ 68/LRIII.] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 1st November 1969 

S.O. 462ft.— In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ- 
ment) No. S.O. 3810, dated the 10th September, 1969, published at pages 4095-4097 
of the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-sectfon (ii) for "No. S.O. 3257” 
read "No. S.O. 3367”. 

[No. F. 1/51/69-LRI.] 
S. S. SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy. 


PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MIN TO ROAD, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS DELHI, 1969 





