रजिस्ट्री सं० डी० - ( डी . ) - 73 


. 


. REGISTERED NO , D - D )- 73 


1 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
सं0 50 ] नई दिल्ली, शनिवार , दिसम्बर13, 1975 ( अग्रहायण 22, 1897 ) 
• No. 50 ] NEW DELHI , SATURDAY , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 

इस भाग में भिन्न पष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके 
Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation 

माग III - खण्ड 

___ PART III - SECTION 4 
विधिकनिकायों द्वारा जारी की गई विधिक अधिसूचनाएं जिसमें कि आवेश, विज्ञापन और सूचनाएं 

सम्मिलित है 
Miscellaneous Notifications including Notifications, Orders , Advertisements and 

Notices issued by Statutory Bodies 


भारतीय चार्टर प्राप्त लेखाकार संस्थान 

नई दिल्ली- 1, दिनांक 12 नवम्बर 1975 
सं० 4 सी० ए० ( 1 ) 9/ 75- 76--.-चार्टर प्राप्त लेखाकार 
विनियम 1964 के विनियम 16 के अनुसरण में एतद् 
द्वारा यह सूचित किया जाता है कि चार्टर प्राप्त लेखाकार 
अधिनियम 1949 की धारा 20 उपधारा 1( क ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए भारतीय चार्टर प्राप्त लेखाकार 
संस्थान परिषद् ने अपने सदस्यता रजिस्टर में से मृत्यु हो जाने 
के कारण निम्नलिखित सदस्यों का नाम आगे दी गई तिथियों 
से हटा दिया है: --- 


सं० 8 सी० ए० ( 1 )/ 13/ 75 - 76 -- चार्टर प्राप्त लेखाकार 
विनियम 1964 के विनियम 10 ( 1 ) खंड ( तीन ) के अनुसरण 
में एतद्द्वारा यह सूचित किया जाता है कि निम्नलिखित 
सदस्यों को जारी किये प्रेक्टिस प्रमाणपन्न उनके नाम के मागे 
दी गई तिथियों से रद्द कर दिये गये हैं क्योंकि वे अपने प्रेक्टिस 
प्रमाण-पत्रों को रखने के इच्छुक नहीं :--- 


क्र०सं० स० सं० 


नाम एवं पता 


तिथि 


क्र०सं० स०सं० नाम एवं पता तिथि 

- -- - --- - - --- - - - -- - - --- - - 
___ 1. 11638 श्री एस० के० सेन गुप्ता, ए०सी० 1- 9- 75 

ए० 33 बी० , कालीघाट रोड 

कलकत्ता । 
2. 12162 श्री सी० सिंह , ए० सी० ए० , 1- 11- 75 

26/ 4ए० , प्रारमेनन स्ट्रीट 

कलकत्ता । 
3. 16317 श्री एन० के० नेयर , ए० सी० ए० , 18- 8 - 75 

बी० 5/ 630, लोधी कालोनी , 
नई दिल्ली । 


1. 86 श्री एन० वी० बाजन , दामानीया 12-9 - 75 

पान्डे एण्ड बाजन , नवसारी 
बिल्डिंग डा० दादाभाई 

नेरोजी रोड फोर्ट , बम्बई । 
2. 2749 श्री के० एस० चारी , एच0- 445, 27- 9- 75 

डी० डी० ए० फ्लेटस नाराएना , 
नई दिल्ली । 


पी० एस० गोपालाकृष्णम्, सचिन 


369GI/ 75 


( 2139) 


2140 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) [ PART III - SEC. 4 


भारतीय प्रौद्योगिक वित्त निगम 
नई दिल्ली -110001, दिनांक 27 मितम्बर 1975 
सं० 5/ 75-~ - अधिसूचना सं० 4/ 75 दिनांक 11 
सितम्बर , 1975 के अनुक्रम में एतद्द्वारा अधिसूचित किया 
जाता है कि 25 सितम्बर, 1975 को हुई निगम के शेयर 
धारियों की वार्षिक साधारण सभा में , महाराष्ट्र स्टेट कोपरेटिव 
बैंक लि० , सर विठलदास येकर्स मेमोरियल बिल्डिग , 9 , 
वेकहाऊस लेन , बम्बई- 1 के अध्यक्ष श्री शामराव कदम को 
सहकारी बैंकों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने के लिए संचालक चुना 
हुमा घोषित किया गया , जो कि निगम के शेषरधारी है , अन्य 
दो प्रत्याशियों, अर्थात् ( 1 ) श्री जसभाई यु० पटेल तथा ( 2 ) 
श्री नन्ना लाल दयाभाई चौधरी ने अपनी उम्मीदवारी वापिस 
ले ली थी । 

आर० बी० माथुर 
___ महाप्रबन्धक 


नई दिल्ली , दिनांक 20 नवम्बर 1975 
सं० 6/ 75-- - भारतीय प्रौद्योगिक वित्त निगम के सामान्य 
विनियमों के विनियम 44 तथा 45 के अधीन प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए निगम के संचालक बोर्ड ने अपनी 30 
अक्तूबर, 1975 की बैठक में निगम के म्निलिखित वरिष्ठ 
तथा कनिष्ठ अधिकारियों को पूर्वापक्षी पहली अगस्त , 1975 
से हस्ताक्षर करने की निम्नलिखित शक्तियों से अधिकृत किया 


( ख ) निगम के चाल तथा अधिकृत कार्य के 

सम्बन्ध में निगम की ओर से तथा द्वारा 
किए गए सभी विधिक दस्तावेजों , विलेखों 
तथा करारनामों को बंधित करने के लिए 
उनका निष्पादन तथा उन पर हस्ताक्षर 

करना । 
( 2 ) सहायक प्रबन्धकों ( विधि )/ सहायक प्रबन्धकों ( तकनीकी ) 

ऋण अधिकारियों ( विधि ) / ऋण अधिकारियों ( तकनीकी ) 
( पहले क्रमशः विधि अधिकारियों , तकनीकी अधि 
कारियों , सहायक विधि अधिकारियों एवं सहायक 
तकनीकी अधिकारियों से अभिहित ) 
वचन पत्रों , स्टाक आवतियो , स्टाक , डिबेंचरो , 

शेयरों, प्रतिभूतियों तथा निगम के नाम तथा 
के द्वारा रक्षित अधिकारों का पृष्ठांकन 
तथा हस्तांतरण करना , चेकों, विनिमय पत्रों 
और निगम के चाल तथा अधिकृत कार्य से 
सबंधित अन्य विलेखों की प्राप्ति , स्वीकृति , 
सथा पृष्ठांकन एवं इस प्रकार के कार्यों से 
सम्बन्धित सभी अन्य खातों , आपतियों , 
विलेखों, करारनामों संविदाओं तथा दस्तावेजों 
पर हस्ताक्षर करना । 

बलदेव पसरीचा , 

अध्यक्ष 
भारतीय जीवन बीमा निगम 
भारतीय जीवन बीमा निगम ( कर्मचारी वर्ग ) 

के विनिमय , 1960 में संशोधन 
सं० III ( IV )/ 51/ 75----जीवन बीमा निगम अधि 
नियम , 1956 की धारा 49 की उप -धारा( 2 ) के खण्ड ( ब ) 
पौर ( बब ) के अन्तर्गत प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
तथा केन्द्रीय सरकार के पूर्वानुमोदन के विनियम , 1960 में 
भारतीय जीवन बीमा निगम निम्नलिखित संशोधन करता है : 

इस विनियम के प्रस्ताव 29 के वर्तमान प्रावधान में निम्न 
लिखित प्रावधान स्थानापनित किया जाय 
___ " साथ ही निगम के किसी भी कर्मचारी को बीमा अभिकर्ता 
होने की स्वीकृति नहीं प्रदान की जायेगी और न ही कोई भी 
कर्मचारी अपने परिवार के किसी भी सदस्य को बीमा अभि 
कर्ता के रूप में कार्य करने देगा । 

एस० रंगाराजन प्रबन्ध निदेशक 


( 1 ) प्रबन्धकों ( तकनीकी ) तथा प्रबन्धकों ( विधि ) 

( पहले क्रमश : वरिष्ठ तकनीकी अधिकारियों तथा 
वरिष्ठ विधि अधिकारियों से अभिहित ) 
( क ) वचन पत्रों , स्टाक प्रावतियों , स्टाक, डिबेंचरों , 

शेयरों , प्रतिभूतियों तथा निगम के नाम 
तथा के द्वारा रक्षित अधिकारों का पृष्ठांकन 
तथा हस्तांतरण करना , चकों , विनिमय 
पत्रों और निगम के चाल तथा अधिकृत 
कार्य से सम्बन्धित अन्य विलेखों 
की प्राप्ति , स्वीकृति तथा 
पृष्ठांकन एवं बैंक खातों का संचालन और 
इस प्रकार के कार्यों से सम्बन्धित सभी अन्य 
खातों , आवतियों , विलेखों , करारनामों , संवि 
दानों तथा दस्तावेजों पर हस्ताक्षर करना । 


THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT OF 

INDIA 
New Delhi , 12th November 1975 


___ No. 4- CA ( 1 )/ 9 / 75 - 76 - -In pursuance of Regulation 16 of 
the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1964 , it is hereby notj 
fied that in exercisc of the powers conferred by clausc ( a ) . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . of Sub- Section (1 ) of Section 20 of the Chartered 
Accountants Act , 1949 , the Council of the Jnstitute of Chartered 
Accountants of India , has removed from the Register of Mem - 
bors of this Instituto on account of death , with effect from tho 


dates mentioned against their names , the names of the 
following gentlemen; 
S , Member 

Name and Address Date of 
No. ship No . 

Romoval 
1 . 86 Shri N . B . Bajan, 

12-9- 1975 
M /s . Damanja Panday & Bajan , 
Naygari Building, 
Dr. Dadabhoy Naoroji Road , 

Fort . Bombay. 
2 . 2749 ShriK. S . Chari , 

27- 9 - 1975 
H - 445, D . D . A . Flats , 
Nariana , 
New Delhi. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


PART III — SEC , 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2141 


( Formerly designated as Law Officers , Technical Officers , 
Asstt . Law Officers and Asstt. Technical Officers respectively ) . 


No. 8 C . A . ( 1) /13/ 75 - 76 -- In pursuance of Clause (ii) 
of Regulation 10 (1 ) of the Chartered Accountants 
Regulations , 1964 , it is hereby notified that the Certi 
ficate of Practice issued to the following members shall stand 
cancelled for th : Period mentioned against their names , as they 
do not desire to hold their Certificate of Practice , 


To cndorse and transfer promissory notes , stock 
receipts , stock , debentures , sharcs , securities and 
documents of title to good standing in the name of 
or held by the Corporation and to draw , Accept and 
endorse chequcs, bills of exchange and other instru 
incnts in tho current and authorised business of the 
Corporation and to sign all other accounts , receipts 
und documents connected with such business . 


Nanic and Address 


S , Member 
No. Ship No. 


Period dur 
ing which 
the 
Certificato 

shall 

stand 
Cancelled 


BALDEV PASRICHA , 

Chairman . 


1 


2 


1 . 11638 


2 . 12162 


Shri S . K . Sen Gupta , A . C .A . 1 - 9 -1975 
33 - B , Kalighat Road , 
Calcutta , 
Shri C . Singh , A .C . A ., 

1 - 11 - 1975 
26 /4A , Armonian Street, 
Calcutta . 
Shri N . K . Nayyar , A . C . A . 18 -8 -1975 
B 5 /630 , Lodi Colony, 
New Delhi. 


EMPLOYEES STATE INSURANCE CORPORATION 

Juipur, the 19th November 1975 
No . R / 18 - 7 / 73 - Est , It is hereby notified that the Local 
Committcc consisting of the following members has been re 
constituted for Sawai Madhopur Area under Regulation 10 - A 
of the Employees State Insurance (General ) Regulation , 1950 
w . e. f , the date of notification , 


3 . 


16317 


P . S . GOPALAKRISHNAN 

Secretary 


INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF 

INDIA NEW DELHI 

New Delhi, the 27th cptember 1975 
No . 5 /75. -- In continuation of Notification No. 4 / 75 datod 
the 11th September, 1975 , it is hereby notified that at the 
Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of the Corpo 
ration held on the 25th September 1975 . Shri Shamrao 
Kadam , Chairman , The Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank 
Ltd ., Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Memorial Building. 9 - Bake 
Izousc Lane . Bombay - 1 , was declared elected as a Director to 
represent the cooperative banks, which are the shareholders 
of the Corporation ; the other two candidates , viz... ( 1 ) Shri 
Jashbhai U . Patel and ( 2 ) Shri Nanalal Dahyabhai Chokshi 
having withdrawn their candidature, 

R . B . MATHUR , 
General Manager . 


CHAIRMAN 
Under Regulation 10 - 4 ( 1) ( a ) 

District Medical & Health Officer , 
Sawai Madhopur. 

MEMBERS 
Under Regulation 10 - A ( 1 ) ( b ) 

Regional Asstt . Labour Commissioner , 

BHARATPUR . 
Under Regulation 10 - A ( 1 ) ( ) 

Insurance Medical Officer , Incharge , 
E . S . I. Dispensary , 

Sawai Madhopur . 
Under Relation 10 - A ( 1 ) 

Shri N . N , Sharma, 
Personnel Olicer , 
Jaipur Udyor Ltd . 

Sawai Madhopur . 
Under Regulation 10 - A ( 1 ) ( ) 

Shri N . P . Şain , 
Cement Works Karamchari Sungh , 
Sahunagar , 
Sawai Madhopur. 


Under Regularion 10 - A ( 1 ) ( ) 

The Manager, 
Mini. Local Officer , 
Sawai Madhopur . 


U . P . SAXENA , 
Regional Director 


LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA 


New Delhi, the 20th November 1975 
No . 6 / 75 . - In pursuance of the Regulations 44 and 45 of 
the General Regulations of the Industrial Finance Corporation 
of India , thc Board of Directors of the Corporation at their 
meeting held on the 30th October 1975 have authorised the 
following Senior and Junior Officers of the Corporation to 
exercise the signing powers with retrospective effect from the 
1st August, 1975 , as follows : 

(1 ) Managers ( Technical ) and Managers ( Law ) 

(Formerly designated as Senior Technical Officers and 
Senior Law Officers respectively ) . 
( a ) To endorse and transfer promissory notes , stock 

receipts , stock , debentures, shares, securities and 
documents of title to goods standing in the name of 
or held by the Corporation and to draw , accept and 
endorse cheques , bills of exchange and other instru 
ments in the current and authorised business of the 
Corporation and to operate bank accounts and to 
sign all other accounts , receipts , deeds, agreements , 
contracts and documents connected with such busi 

ncSS . 
( b ) To sign and execute on behalf of the Corporation 

all legal documents, instruments and agreements 
which are required to be executed for and on behalf 
of the Corporation in connection with the current 

and authorised business of the Corporation . 
( 2 ) Assistant Managers ( Law ) / Assistant Manager 

( Technicals ) Loans Officers ( Law ) / Loans Oficers 
( Technical ) 


Amendment to the Life Insurance Corporation of India 

( Staff ) Regulations, 1960 
Bombay, the 

1975 
No . 111 ( IV ) / 51 / 75, - In exercise of the powers vested in it 
under clauses (b ) and ( bb ) of Sub -section ( 2 ) of Section 
49 of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 , the Life 
Insurance Corporation of India, with the previous approval 
of the Central Government, makes the following amondmont 
to the Life Insurance Corporation of India ( Staff ) Regula 
lions , 1960 . 

In Regulation 29 of the said Regulations , for the existing 
proviso , the following proviso ghall be substituted namely : 

" Provided that no employee of the Corporation shall be 
permitted to act as an insurance agent and no employce shall 
allow any member of his family to act as an insurance agent" . 


S . RANGARAJAN , 
Managing Director 


2142 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART IIISEC, 4 


OIL & NATURAL GAS COMMISSION 

SECRETARIAT 
No. 17 ( 11 ) / 69 - Reg. - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 32 of the Oui and Natural Gas Commission Act , 
1939 ( 43 of 1959 ) , and all other powers enabling hereinto 
the Oil and Natural Gas Commission hereby nakes, with 
the prevlous approval of the Central Government, the follow . 
ing rogulations relating to the terms and conditions of 
appointment and service of the employees , namely : 


(b ) by the terms or conditions of service, or any agree 

pent, subsisting between such person and the Gov 

ernment; or 
( c ) by the terms or any agreement subsisting between 

him 400 the Compişsion at the commencement of 
thosc regulations. 


1 . Short Title and Commencement : 

( 1 ) Those regulations may be called the Oil and Natural 
Gas Commission ( Terms and Conditions of Appointment and 
Service ) Regulations, 1975 , 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publi 
cation in the Official Gazette . 


4 . Nationality : 

A candidate for appointment to the service of the Com 
mission must be 

(a ) a citizen of India , or 
(b ) a subject of Nepal, or 
( c ) a subject of Bhutan , or 
( d ) a Tibetan refugee who came over to India , before 

1st January, 1962 with the intention of permanently 

settling In India , Or 
( c ) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from 

Pakistan , Burma, Ceylon and East African countries 
of Kenya , Uganda and the United Republic of Tan 
zania (formerly Tanganyika und Zanzibar ) with 

the intention of permanently settling in India . 
Provided that a candidate belonging to categories (b ) , 
( 2 ) , ( d ) and ( o ) shall be a person in whose favoura 
certificate of eligibility has been granted by the Government. 
5 . Verification of Character and Antecedents : 

The inclusion of a candidate s name in the list of candi 
dates selected , confers no right to appointment unless the 
appointing authority is satisfied , after such enquiries as may 
be considered necessary, that the candidate having regard to 
his character and antecedents , is suitable in all respects for 
appointment, 


2 . Definitions : 

In these regulations, unless the context otherwise re 
quires : 
( a ) " Act " means the Oil and Natural Gas Commission 

Act , 1959 (43 of 1959 ) ; 
( b ) " appointing authority " , in relation to any post , means 

the Commission and includes any person or 
authority to whom tho power to make appointment 
to that post has been delegated by the Commission 

under section 26 of the Act; 
(c ) " Commission " means the Oil and Natural Gas Com . 

mission established under the Act ; 
( d ) " competent authority in relation to the exercise 

of a power, means the Commission and includes 
any officer or authority to whom the power is de 
legated by the Commission under section 26 of the 

Act ; 
(e ) " Government" means the Central Government; 
( f ) " employee" means a person who holds a post under 

the Commission and includes any such person whose 
services are temporarily placed at the disposal of a 
State Government or the Central Government or 

any Government Industrial Undertaking : 
( g ) " ljen " means the title of an employee to hold subs 

tantively , either immediately or on termination of 
a period or periods of absence, a permanent post 
including a tenure post, to which ho has been ap 

pointed substantively ; 
( h ) " Standing Committee" means the committee consist 

ing of whole - time members ; 
(i ) " tenuro post ” means a permanent post which an 

individual employte may not hold for more than 
a limited period , 


6 . Marriage Declaration : 
( 1) ( a ) No person who has ontered into , or contracted 

a marriage with a person having a spouse living; 
or 


( b ) who , having a spouse living , has entered into 

or contracted a marriage with any person , shall 
be eligible for appointment to , any post in the 

Commission : 
Provided that the Commission may , if it is satisfied that 
such marriagc is permissible under the personal law applica 
ble to such person and the other party to the marriage and 
there are other grounds for so doing , exempt any person from 
the operation of this regulation . 


( 2 ) An employee who has mariied or marrics a person 

other than of Indian Nationality shall forthwith 
Intimate the fact to the Commission . 


NOTE : In cast of doubt, the Commission or any 

person or authority to whom the power is 
delegated by the Commission under section 26 
of the Act, may decide whether a parliculur 
post is or is not a tenure post , 


7 . Medical Certificate on First Entry : 
No person shall be appointed to 4 post b 
to person shall be appointed to post in the conmission 

y couv . v . . 
without a medicul certificate of health obtained in accordance 
with the procedure prescribed in the Oil and Natural Gas 
Commission (Medical Examination of Employees ) Regula 
tions , 1965 : 

Provided that the Commission may by order exempt either 
permanently or temporarily any candidate or a class of 
candidates from the production of such certificate of fitness 
and if tcmporary exemption is granted , the modical examina 
tion shall be required to be completed within a period of 
1hree months from the date of actunl joining of the post . 


3. Application : 

( 1 ) These regulations shall apply to all the employees of 
the Commission , except - 
( a ) those on foreign service terms with the Commission 

in whose caso the terms and conditions of appoint 
ment and service agreed to between the Commission 

and the lending organisation would apply ; and 
(b ) those paid from contingencies who shall be governed 

by the provisions of the standing orders in force , 
( 2 ) Nothing in these regulations shall operate to deprive 
any omployee of any right or privilege to which he is 
entitled — 

( a ) by or under any law for the time being in force ; or 


8 . Date of Birth : 

( 1 ) Every employee newly appointed to a service or post 
under the Commission shall at the time of appointment declare 
the date of his birth by the Christian Era with confirmatory 
documentary evidence such as Matriculation Certificuto or 
Municipal birth certificate . If the exact date is not known, 
an approximate date duly supported by conirmatory evi 
denso to the satisfaction of the appointing authority, shall 
be given , 


2143 


PART III — SEC . 41 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


progress is not satisfactory during the period of probation , 
may be ; 

(i) discharged from the service of the Commission if 

he is a direct recruit from the open market, or 
( i ) reverted to a lower post, if he is & promotce , or 

was appointed to the higher post as a departmental 
employce against direct recruitment without any 

notico or any reason being assigned . 
11 . Confirmation against Permanent Post : 

The cmployees of the Commission will be eligible for 
confirmation against permanent posts in accordance with the 
principles as laid down in Annexure I appended to these re 
gulations. 


( 2 ) The actual date or the assumed date detcimined unde 
sub - regulation ( 3 ) shall be recorded in the history of service , 
service book or any other record that may be kopt in respect 
of the employee s service under the Commission and , onco 
recorded , it cannot be altered , except in tho case of a clerical 
error, without the previous orders of the appointing authority , 
NOTE : Request for alteration of date of birth should not 

be entertained after the preparation of vervice books 
of the employecs concerned , and in any cvent not 
later than the completion of the probation period . 
The date of birth may, however, be altered at a 
later stage by a competent authority if that authority 
is satisfied that a bonafide clerical mistake has been 
committed and that it should be lecțified . Efforts 
should , however, be made to settle the patter within 

the period stated above , 
( 3 ) If an employce is unable to state his exact date of 
birth but can state the year , or year and month of birth , 
the 1st July or 16th of a month respectively shall be treated 
as the date of birth . 

( 4 ) If an employee is only able to state his approximate 
age , his date of birth shall be assumed to be the correspond 
ing date after deducting the number of years representing his 
age from his dute of appointment. 

( 5 ) When a person who first entered in military service , 
is subsequently employed in the Commission , the date of 
birth for the purposo of thc cmployment in the Commission 
shall be the date stated by him at the time of attestation or 
if at the time of attestation he stated only his age , the clate 
of birth shall be deduced with reference to that age according 
to sub - regulation ( 4 ) . 

( 6 ) In the case of illiterate cmployee , the date of birth 
declared by him shall be recorded by an officer not lower 
in rank than a Head of office under his dated signature . 


" 


L 


9 . Oath of Allegiance : 

Every new entrant to service under the Commission shall 
take oath or solemnly affirm his allegiance to the Consti( 17. 
tion of India as by law established in the following foum , 
that is to say : 

- do swear / solcmnly affirm that I will 
be faithful and hear true allegiance to India and to the 
Constitution of India as by law established and that I 
will carry out the duties of my office loyally, honestly 
and with impartiality . 
" SO HELP ME GOD " Signature of candidate 

Date : 
* Applicable in case of oath only . 
10 . Probation : 

( 1 ) Every person appointed to a post cither by direct re 
cruitment or by departmental promotion , shall be on proba 
tion for a period of one year : 

Provided that the appointing authority may extend the 
period of probation by any period, which shall 001 normally 
cxceed one yeur, except for special rcason to be iccorded in 
writing ; but no employec shall be kept on probation for a 
total period exceeding three years in any post . 

(2 ) During the period of probation , an employec may be 
required to pass a written examination or a proficiency test 
or a trade test within a specified period , or in a specified 
number of chances, and on such conditions , as mixy be speci 
fcd in this behalf . 


12 . Substantive Appointment : 

( 1 ) Two or morc cmployecs cannot be appointed substan 
tively to the saine permanent post at the same time. 

( 2 ) An employce cannot be appointed substantively except 
dy a temporary measure to two or more permanent posts at 
the same time, 

( 3 ) An employce cannot be appointed substantively to a 
post on which another employee holds 4 lien . 
13. Lien : 

( 1 ) Unless in any case it be otherwise provided in these 
regulations, an cmployee on substantive Appointment to any 
pertnanent post , acquires a lien on that post and ceases to 
hold any lien [previously acquired on any other post. 

( 2 ) Unless his lien is suspended under regulation 14 or 
Crankcd under regulation 16 , an employee holding subs 
laintively a permanent post retains a lien on that post - - 

( a ) while performing the duties of that post ; 
(b ) while on foreign service or holding & tomporary 

post, or officiating in another post; 
( c ) during joining time on transfer to another post , 

unless he is transferred substantively to a post on 
lower pay in which case his Jicp is transferred to 
the new post from the date on which he is relieved 

of his duties in the old post; 
( d ) while on leave other than refused leave granted 

after the date of compulsory retirement; and 
( e ) while under suspension , 
14 . Suspension of Lien : 

( 1 ) The competent authority shall suspend the lien of an 
employec on a permanent post which he holds substantively , 
if he is appointed in a substantive capacity : 

(a ) to a tenure post , or 
( b ) provisionally , to a post on which another employed 

would hold a lien had his lien not been suspended 

under this regulation , 
( 2 ) The competent authority may , at its discretion sys 
pend the lion of an employee on il permanent post which 
he holds substantively , it he is deputed out of India or 
liansfericd to foicign service , or in circumstances not covered 
by sub - 1egulation ( 1 ) is transferred in an officiating capacity , 
to a post in another cadre and if in any of these cases there 
is reason to belicve that he will remain absent from tho 
post on which he holds a lien for a period of not less than 
three years . 

( 3 ) Notwithstunding anything contained in sub -regulation 
( 1 ) or ( 2 ) an employee s lien on a tenure post may in no 
circumstances be suspended and if be is appointed substantive 
ly to another permanent post, his lion on the tenure post must 
be terminated 

(4 ) If an employee s lien is suspended under sub -regulation 
( 1 ) or ( 2 ) thc post may be filled substantively and the 
cmployee appointed to hold it substantively shall acquire a 
lien on it ; 

Provided that the arrangements shall be reversed as soon 
as suspended licn revives . 
Noir : When a post is filled substantively under this regu 

lation the Appointment will be termed " provisional 
appointment" , the employees appointed will hold a 
provisional lion on the post and that lien will be 
liable to suspension under sub - regulation ( 1 ) . 


( 3 ) A decision on the question whether an employee should 
be deemed to have completed the period of probation satis 
factorily , or whether his probation should be extended , shall 
ordinarily be taken within a period of two months from tho 
date of expiry of the period of probation and communicat 
ed in writing to the employee , 

( 4 ) An employee , who fails to complete his probation 
satisfactorily , of who fails to pass the written examination , 
profici 

r trade test mentioned in sub - regulation ( 2 ) , 
within the specifled period or chances or within such extend 
ed period or chances , as may be allowed to him , or whose 


2144 


THE 


lino . 


THE -GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART 111 - SEC . 4 
- .. . -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- -- 
( 5 ) An employee s lien which has been suspended under 

( b ) Non -selection posts : Posts, promotion to which shall 
sub - regulation ( 1 ) shall revive as soon as ho ceases to hold 

be made by seniority subject to rejection of the 
hlien on a post of the nature specified in clause ( b ) of 

unfit . 
sub - regulation ( 1 ) . 

( 2 ) Promotions shall be made in accordance with the 
(6 ) An employee s lien suspended under sub - regulation ( 2 ) regulations made in this behalf . 
shall revive as soon as he ceases to be on deputation out 
of India or on foreign service or to hold a post in another 21. Loan of Services of the Employees of the Commission 
cadre ; 

on Foreign Service Terms : 
Provided that a suspended lien shull not revive because ( 1 ) The permanent employees , and those temporary em 
the employce takes leave if there is reason to believe that ployees of the Commission who have put in 3 years service 
he may , on l eturn from leave , continue to be on deputation in the Commission , may be allowed to go on deputation to 
out of India Or on foreign service or to hold post in other organisations . The deputation in cach case , shall be 
another cadre and the total period of absence on duty may approved by the Standing Committee or Commission and the 
not fall short of three years or that he may hold substantive period of deputation may be 2 years in the first instance , 
by { post of the nature specified in clause ( a ) or ( b ) of The inodel foreign service terms and conditions in such cases 
sub - regulation ( 1 ) . 

are given in Annexure III appended to these regulations and 

to the extent possible , the actual foreign service terms and 
15. Termination of Lion : 

conditions should conform to the model terms : 
( 1 ) An employee s lion on a post may, in no circumstance 

Provided that no employee will be allowed to proceed on 
cs, be terminated , even with his consent, if thc result shall 

deputation to private organisations . 
be to leave him without a liçn or a suspended lien upon a 
a permanent post . 

( 2 ) In A case where the services of an employee have been 

placed at the disposal of an outside authority , he shall be 
( 2 ) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub -regulation ( 1 ) entitled to all the protection or benefits as would have been 
of regulation 14 , the lien of an employee holding substantive accrued to him had he been present in the Commission in 
ly a permanent post shall be terminated while on refused { ccordance with the principles of " next below rule " under 
leave granted after the date of compulsory retirement. 

which the competent Authority is empowered to specify posts 

outside the ordinary line of a service whereupon the employec 
( 3 ) An employee s lien on a post shall stand terminaled 

belonging to that service would be entitled to receive the 
on his acquiring a licn on a permanent post ( whether under 

benefit of any officiating promotion he would have received 
the Central Government or State Government ) outside the 

in the normal line but for his being outside the normal 
cadre on which he is borne . 
16 . Transfer of Lien : 

Note : The intention underlying the next below rule is 
Şubject to the provisions of regulation 18 , a competent 

that an officer out of his regular linc should not 
authority may tranfser to another permanent post in the 

suffer by forfeiting his promotion which he would 
same cadre the lien of an employee who is not performing 

otherwise have received , had he remained in his 
the duties of the post to which the lien relates, even if 

regular line. From that it follows that the fortuit 
that lien has been suspended , 

ous acting promotion of some one junior to an 

oficer who is out of the regular line does not, in 
17 . Subscription to Funds : 

itself , give rise to a claim under the next below 

rule . Before such a claim is established it should 
An employec may be required to subscribe to the Con ! 1 

be necessary that all the officers senior to the 
butory Provident Fund or other similar funds in accordance 

officer who is out of the regular line bave been 
with the regulations made in this behalf . 

given acting promotion and also the officer next 
18 . Transfer and Training 

below him unless in any case the acting promotion 

is not given because of incfficiency , unsuitability 
( 1 ) A competent authority may transfer an employee 

or leave. In the event of one of these three bars 
from one post to another provided that except; 

being applicable to the officer immediately below 
( a ) on account of inefficienzy or misbehaviour; or 

the officer outside his regular line , then some other 

officer , even more junior should have received act 
(b ) on his written request; 

ing promotion and the officers , if any , in between 
an employee shall not be transferred substantively to or 

should have been passed over for one of these 
appointed to officiato in a post carrying less pay than the pay 

Teasons. 
of the permanent post on which he holds a lien or would 
hold a lien had his lien not been suspended under regula 22. No Objection Certificate for Registration with Employment 
tion 14 , 

Exchange : 
( 2 ) An cmployce shall be liable either to serve or Lindergo ( 1) No employee of the Commission , whether permanent 
training or both anywhere in and outside India and such or temporary , shall be granted No objection certificate for 
employce shall execute i bond binding himself to serve the registration with the Employment Exchange for higher posts 
Commission after the complction of the training for such during the period of probation and one year after successful 
period as may be specificd in this behalf by the Commission , completion of the period of probation . This restriction , how 

cver , need 110t be made applicable , in the case . 
( 3 ) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub -regulations 
( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , where a cadre or service has been decentralised 

(i ) employees belonging to Scheduled Castos or Schedul 
into two or more zones , the transfers shall normally be 

ed Tribes possessing educational or technical quali 
made within that zonc . 

fications higher than those required for posts alrcady 

held by them ; 
19 . Seniority : 

( ii) employees holding posts , equivalent to Class IV 
Seniority of an employee shall be determined in the grade 

and who are educationally or technically qualified 
and cadre to which he belongs in accordance with the princi 

for higher posts; and 
ples as laid down in Annexure Il appended to these regula 
tions. 

( iii) employees reverted to a lower post otherwise than 

as a measure of penalty and whose emoluments 
20 . Promotion : 

have been reduced by more than 20 per cent. 
( 1 ) For the purpose of promotion , posts in the Commis 
sion shall be classified into the following 

( 2 ) Temporary employees may be granted No objection 
two categories, 

certificate for registering their names with the Employment 
zamely : - - 

Exchanges for higher posts after they have completed their 
( A ) Selection posts : Posts, promotion to which shall be probation period successfully and have put in one year s 

made by selection based on meril with Tue regard service thereafter if they possess qualifications for higher 
to seniority , 

posts , 


PART III — Sec , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2145 


( 3 ) Pormanent employees may also be granted No objec 
lion certificate after they have completed probation period 
successfully and have put in one year s service thereafter . 
The giant if such No objection certificates to permanent 
employees shall be subject to the following conditions, 
namely : 


( 7 ) A resignation becomes effective when it is accepted 
und the cmployce is rclicved of his duties. Where a resigna 
tion has not becoinc effective and the çmployee wishes to 
withdraw it , the authority who accepted the resigpation 
may either peimit the employee to withdraw the resigna 
lion or refuse the request for such withdrawal 


( i) The employce should be registered only for a post 

higher than the one he is holding in the Commission , 
In cases of doubt as to whether the pou for which 
a permanent employce intends to register his name 
with the Employment Exchange is higher than the 
one he is holding in the Commission the decision 
of the competent authority shall be final, 


NOTF : Where a resignation has become effective, the 

acceptance of request for withdrawal of resignation 
amounts to re -employment. In such cases, the 
Testoiation of benefits of past service shall require 
prior concurrence of the Commission , 


24 . Termination of Service : 


loyce shall be 


( ii ) On being selected for appointment by a Govern 

ment Department or any Public Sector Undertaking 
for the higher post, he may be treated as on foreign 
service , as per terms of foreign service specified by 
the Commission . On the expiry of period of foreign 
service , he should cither revert to the Commission 
or resign his post held in the Commission , 


( 1 ) Except as may specifically be provided in the contract 
of service , the scrvices of a temporary employee sh 
liable to termination at any time without assigning any 
l casong by a notice in writing given cither by the employee 
to the appointing authority or by the appointing authority 
to the employee and the period of such notice shall be one 
month ; 


( iii ) Once an employee has reverted to the Commission , 

he should not be allowed a No objectior certificate 
to register his name once again for a period of 
atleast two years , 


Provided that the services of any such employee may bo 
terminated forthwith and on such termination , the employco 
shall be entitled to claim a sum equivalent to the amount 
of his pay plus allowances for the period of the notice 
at the same rates at which he was drawing them immediately 
before the termination of his servicc , or, as the case may 
be , for the period by which such notice falls short of one 
month . 


23. Resignation : 

( 1 ) The authority competent to accept resignation of an 
cmployee is the appointing authority , 


( 2 ) ( a ) Every employee other than an employce on pro 
bation , shall be required to give one month s notice in 
writing to the Commission while submitting his resignation : 


Provided that an employee who has been declared perma 
nent shall be required to give thrce months notice . 


Provided further that in the case of an employee who is 
under suspension or against whom disciplinary proceedings 
for imposition of major penally have been initiated , tho 
issue of a notice by the employee for termination of his 
employment shall not cause the appointment to be terminat 
ed , unless the appointing authority considers that it would 
be in the intorest of the Commission to permit termination 
of the appointment. The termination of appoinment shall 
become effective only when such a termination is accepted 
by the appointing authorily and from such date aq may be spe . 
cified by the appointing authority . Tf the authority competent 
to dismiss such an employed is higher than the appointing 
authority , the orders of the former shall be obtained before 
the resignation is accepted by the appointing Authority . 


(6 ) If an employee leaves the service of the Commission 
without requisite notice , then without prejudice to any other 
action which may be taken against him , the Commission 
may deduct from his pay and allowances and any other 
personal claims due to him , a sum equivalent to his pay and 
allowances for the period of notice required under clause 
( A ) or the unexpired period thereof. 


( 3 ) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub - regulation ( 2 ), 
the appointint authority may , at its discretion , accept the 
resignation of the employee with immediate effect or with 
effect from any time before the expiry of the notice period , 
and may also waive the recovery from the employee s pay 
and allowances in lieu thereof. 


( 2 ) ( a ) whore a gotice is given by the appointing authority 
terminating the services of a temporary employ 
the service of any such employee are terminated either 
on the expiry of the neriod of such notice or forthwith 
hy payment of pay plus allowances , the Commission or any 
other authority specificd by the Commission in this behalt 
may, of its own motion or otherwise re open the case , and 
after calling for the records of the case and after making 
such inquiry as it deems fit . 


( 4 ) In the case of an cmployee who is engaged on work 
of importance and it would take time to make alternative 
arrangements for filling the post, the Appointing authority 
may accept the resignation only after alternative arrangements 
have been made for filling up the post, even if this period 
exceeds the normal notice period of one month referred to 
in sub -regulation ( 2 ) . 


( i) confirm the action 

authority ; 


taken 


by 


the 


appointing 


( ii ) withdraw the notico; 


( iii ) reinstate the employee in gervico ; or 


( 5 ) In the case of an employee , whose conduct is under 
inquiry , or who is under suspension , the resignation shall not 
ordinarily be accepted unless the appointing Authority consi 
ders that having regard to tho merits of the disciplinary 
caşc , pending against him , it would be in the interest of the 
Commission to accept his resignation , 


( iv ) make such other order in the case as 

consider proper; 


it may 


Provided that except in special circumstances which should 
he recorded in writing , no case shall be re -opened under 
this sub -regulation after the expiry of three months; 


Provided that if the authority competent to dismiss such 
an employee is higher than the appointing authority the 
orders of the former shall be obtained before the resignation is 
accepted by the appointing authority . 


(i) from the date of notice, in a case where notice 

is given ; 


( 6 ) The authority competent to accept the resignation 
Shall specify , in cach case , the date from which the resigna 
tion should become effective if not immediately . 


( ii ) from the date of termination of service in a case 

where no notice is given . 


2146 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 . 1897 ) 


( PART 1 - SEC , 4 


26 . Re - Appointment : 


(b ) where an employee is reinstated in service 
item ( iil ) of clause ( a ) , the order of reinstatement 
specify : 


under 
shall 


( i) the amount or proportion of pay and allowances , 

if any , to be paid to the employee for the period 
of his absence betwoen the date of termination of 
his services and the date of his reinstatement; and 


( 1 ) No person who has been dismissed from the service 
of the Commission Or Government or Public Undertakings 
or local authoiitics or body corporate shall be re-employed . 
A person who has been compulsorily retired or romoved 
from service may be re - employed with the prior approval of 
lhe Commission or Government as the case may be . 

( 2 ) An appointing authority may re -employ a person who 
has resigned from service or whose services have been ter 
minated under sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 24 in con 
sultation with the authority under whom he was previously 
working . 


( ii ) whether the said period shall be treated as a 

period spent on duty for any specified purpose or 
purposes. 


( 3 ) Nothing contained in this regulation shall affect the 
power of the appointing authority in taking action against 
the employees under regulation 6 of the Oil and Natural 
Gas Commission (Medical Examination of Employees ) 
Regulations, 1965 . 


27. Share in any Contract : 

No person , who directly or indirectly by himself or his 
agent has any share or interest in any contract by or on 
behalf of the Commission or in any employment under the 
Commission , otherwise than as an employoe thereof, shall 
become or remain in employ of the Commission and the 
decision of the Commission as to whether a person has any 
auch interest will be final. 


25. Retirement : 

( 1 ) Every employco , other than those referred to in sub 
regulation ( 2 ) below shall retire from the afternoon of the 
last day of the month in which he attains the age of 
58 years . 


( 2 ) An employee whosc maximum of the scale of pay 
is Rs. 154 / - or less shall be retained in service till the 
afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains 
the age of sixty years. 


28 . Bar against Employment after Retirement : 

No person who has retired from the servico of the 
Commission , after such retirement, shall accept any appoint 
ment or post whether advisory or administrative, in any 
firm or company whether Indian or Foreign with which 
the Commission has or bad business relations, within two 
years from the dale of his retirement, without prior approval 
of the Commission , 


( 3 ) An employee to whom sub -regulation ( 1 ) applies 
may be granted extension of service after he attains the 
age of retirement as specified therein , with the sanction of 
the Commigsion , if such extension is in the interest of tho 
Commission and tho grounds therefor are recorded in 
writing, 


29. Record of Service : 

A record of the particulars of service of each cmployee 
shall he maintained in the service Book or Service sheet 
of the employee in such form and in such manner as may 
be specificd hy the Commission from time to time. 


Provided that no extension under this sub -regulation shall 
be granted for a period exceeding two years, except in 
very special circumstances, 


(4 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation , 
the appointing authority shall , if it is of the opinion that 
it is in the commission s interest to do so , have the absolute 
right to retire any cmployee after he has attained the age 
of fifty years , by giving him notice of not less than three 
months in writing or three months pay and allowances in 
lieu of such notice, 


30 . Saving 

Nothing in these regulations shall affect reservations and 
other concessions required to be provided for Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other special categorleg of 
persons in accordance with the orders jasued by the Govern 
ment from time to time, and adopted by the Commission , 


Provided that nothing in this sub - regulation shall apply 
to employoes referred to in sub -regulation (2 ) who entered 
the Commission s service on or before the date on which 
these regulations come into forco . 


31. Interpretation : 

If any doubt arises regarding the interpretation of any 
provision of these regulations, the matter shall be referred 
to the Director of Personnel who shall decide the game in 
consultation with the Director of Finance and Accounts , 
However, the foance need not be consulted in a mattor 
which has no financial implication , 


( 5 ) Any employce may by giving notice of not less than 
thrto months in writing to the appointing authority retire 
from service after ho has attained the age of fifty years . 
Provided that — 
( a ) nothing in this sub- regulation shall apply to an 

employee referred to in sub - regulation ( 2 ) who 
entered the Commission s service on or beforo the 
date on which these regulations come into force ; 
and 


32 . Relaxarlon : 

Where the Commission is satisfied that the operation of 
Any regulation or provision regulating the conditions of 
servico of its employees or any class of such employees 
caukes unduç hardship in any particular case , it may , by 
order, dispense with or relax the requirements of that 
regulation or provision to such extent and subject to such 
conditions as it may considor necessary for dealing with the 
case in a just and equitable manner. 


( b ) if shall be open to the appointing authority to 

withhold permission to an employeo ander suspen 
sion who seeks to retire under this sub -regulation . 


K . K . DHAR , 
Secretary to the Commission 


PART III SEC. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2147 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


(a ) the Director of Personnel for all former class I 

and II officers and centralised category of former 
class III posts : 


ANNEXURE I 

( Regulation 11) 
PRINCIPLES FOR PERMANENCY 
1, A . Declaring Employees as Permanent : 

General Principles ; 
( a ) Employees may be declared permanent strictly 

according to their seniority in tho cadro . 


Provided that in the case of Class I posts , appro 
val of appointing authority will be obtained ; and 


( b ) the Director of Personnel or the General Manager - 

for all former class III and IV decentralised cate 
gory of posts of their respective regions ; 


(b ) Two or moro employees of the Commission can 

not be declared permanent againat the same post 
At the samo timo, 


Provided that the allocation of posts to be de 
claicd permanent will be made by the Headquar 
ters , 


( c ) No Government servant on Foreign Service or 

the Commission may be declared permanent if he 
holds a lien on a permanent post in Central Gov 
ernment or State Government Departments, 


2 . ( 1 ) Confirmation of employees against permanent posts 
in disregard of the above provisions shall be erroneous. 
Confirmation shall be cencelled if the Order of confirma 
tion was clearly contrary to these regulations. 


( d ) An employce of the Commission cannot be de 

clared permanent agajnst two or more permanent 
posts at the same time. 


( av ) if the order of confirmation was made when there 

was no substantive vacancy and the confirming 
authority had no power to create the post in which 
the officer was confiimed . 


(e ) Employees may be declared permanent with jetros 

pective effect, provided that : 


( b ) if the order of confirmation was made in error , 

e 8 , raming wrong person ; mistake in identity . 


(i) a permanent post existed on the date ; 


( il ) tho employce concerned was working in the 

grado on that date ; 


(2 ) Orders of confirmation in the above mentioned cases 
arc void abinitio and tho employce does not acquire any 
right to hold the post in which the order purporled to con 
firm him . Therefore the procedure of “ show cause notice " 
13 not required to be followed before cancelling the order of 
confirmation , 


( ili ) where an employee under suspension is re 

instated and it is decided to treat the period 
of suspension as duty for all purposes, the 
employee may be declared permanent from 
the date on which he would have been por 
mally confirmed even though he was under 
suspension on that date . 


B . Sultability and Fitness : 


ANNEXURE JI 


shall 


( Regulation 19 ) 


Before declaring permanent, competent authority 
satisfy itself that the person concerned has -- 


PRINCIPLES FOR SENIORITY 


The following principles will be followed for regulating 
the seniority of the employees in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commision : 


A . Direct Recruits 


(i) character, conduct and work to render him suitable 

for permanent retention in the servico of the 

Commission ; 
( ü ) passed the specified departmental tests , it any; 
( iii ) been examined by an appropriate medical authority 

and foupd fit ; 
( iv ) completed satisfactorily his probation poriod ; 
(v ) completed 3 years service in the Commission in 

the grade in which the employce la to be confirmed , 


( i) The inter -se -seniority of candidates selccted on 

any one occasion shall be determined in the order 
of merit in which they are placed by the selection 
committee . 


C . Security of Service and Benefits , 


( ii ) Where persons recruited initially on probation , are 

confirmed subsequently , in an order different from 
the order of merit indicated at the time of their 
selection , seniority shall follow the order of con 
fiimation and not the original order of mcrit. 


If there is reduction in the Establishment of the Commig 
gion , the service of a permanent employce shall not be 
liable to termination so long as any post of the game grade 
held by him , continues to be held by an employee not in 
# permanent strvice in the Commission . 


In cascę where the period of probation of an 
employee is extended on account of a vigilance or 
disciplinary case pending against him and the cm 
ployee is subsequently exonerated , his probation 
will be regularised from the date on which it 


D . Tho competent authority for declaring employees perma 
shall bo , 
2 — 36961/75 


2148 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [ PART III - Sec , 4 


would have otherwise been regularised but for the 
pendency of the vigilance or disciplinary case . 


divided into different cadres on regional, project 
or Directorate basis , eligible persons shall be 
placed in separate lists in order of their inter- se 
seniority in the respective grades or cadres. 


( a ) If the promotion is to be made on the basis of 

merit alone , the Departmental Promotion Com 
mittee shall prepare a Select ligt on the 
basis of merit . Promotion shall be made from 
this Select list in the order in which the names 
have been so finally arranged ; 


( iii ) The candidates who are offered the appointments 

in the Commission against direct recruitment quota 
shall be asked to join within 11 months from the 
date of icceipt of offer in order to retain their 
seniority . When a candidate at thọ time of 
applying or interview indicates, that he would need 
more time and this fact is duly noted when placing 
him on the selection list, he may be allowed to 
join within a maximum period of 100 days from 
the date of issue of the order. If, however, tho 
candidato is an employce of the Oli & Natural 
Gas Commission and cannot join within the afore 
said period of one and half months, on account of 
exigencies of work then the appointing authority 
may , if it is satisfied that the candidate is unable 
to join duty in the exigencics of the Commission s 
work , extend the period within which the candidate 
would be permitted to join without losing his 
seniority by a maximum of two months ( in addi 
tion to 11 months allowed to outsiders ) . 


( b ) If , however, the promotion is to be made on 

the basis of seniority - cum - fitness , i.e . seniority 
subject to the rejection of unfit , the Depart 
mental Promotion Committee shall place the 
candidates from the various lists into one " con 
solidated seniority list " based on the total length 
of service rendered in that grade or cadre and 
make recommendations for promotion on the 
basis of this " consolidated list" . The inter-sc 
senority of the candidates in their respective 
lists will not be disturbed in the " consolidated 
liat " 


( iv ) Such Government officers and employees as are 

selected in direct competition through open adver 
tisement but are appointed on foreign service terms 
shall be deemed to be direct recruits for the pur 
pose of determinalion of their seniority in the 
Commission , 


C . Relative Seniority of Direct Recrutis and 

Promotees : 


Departmental 


Seniority of such persons once detormined , shak 
not he affected hy their retirement from the 
parent -office , if they continue in the Commission s 
employment beyond such retirement. 


(1) When the vacancies on any one occasion are reserv 

ed for departmental promotion and direct recruit 
ment , names of the promotees shall be released 
Arst and they shall be promoted accordingly . The 
Rames of the direct recruits shall be released there 
after and appointments made , subsequently. In case 
the Departmental Promotion Committee panel is 
not available , the vacancies for direct recruitment 
will not be filled on regular basis , instead , offi 
ciating arrangements shall be made . 


( v ) Gove,nitnt pensioners and retrenched employees , 

who are intially re - employed in the Commission 
after their retirement or retrenchment, shall also 
be treated as direct recruits for the purposes of 
determination of seniority . 


B . Deparmiental Promodees 


( ii ) Amongst the departmental promotees and direct 

l ecruits so appointed on any single occasion the 
departmental promotees shall be treated as senior 
enbloc to the direct recruite . 


( i ) The inter -sc -seniority of departmental candidates 

selected for promotion on any single occasion shall 
he determined in the order of their selection Aş 
recommended by the Departmental Promotions 
Committee , 


D . Ad -hoc Appointmenis : 


( ii ) Where persons promoted initially on probation are 

confirmed subsequently in an order different from 
the order of merit decided at the time of their 
promotion , seniority shall follow the order of con 
firmation and not the original order of merit . 


Persons appointed or plomoted to a grade on an ad -hoc 
basis shall be replaced by candidates approved for regular 
appointment or promotion as soon as possible . In the event 
of regularisation of their appointment, they shall take their 
place in the seniority list with reference to their regular selec 
tion or promotion . 


E . Contingent Employees : 


In casos where the period of probation of an 
employce is extended on account of a vigilance or 
disciplinary case pending against him and the cm 
ployee is subsequently exonerated , his probation 
will be regulated from the date on which it would 
have otherwise been regularised but for the pen 
dency of the vigilance or disciplinary case . 


In the case of employees, who are recruited initially on 
contingent basis , and are brought to the regular establishment 
of the Commission later, the seniority shall be fixed with 
reference to the date of their regularisation and order of 
selection determined at the time of regularisation . Where , 
however, the order of merit is not so determined , the inter 
se -seniority of the candidates , brought on to the regular 
establishment on the same date , will be decided on the basis 


( iii ) Where promotions to a grade are made either 

from more than one grade , or from the same grade 


- _ 


= - - 


- 


= 


SAE 


- 


- = 


= 


PART III — SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1397 ) 2149 
- - - - - - - 

- - _ 
of the date of their continuous employment on contingent 

(ii ) Such employees will relain their lien and seniority 
basis prior to such regularisation . If the date of employment 

in the parent cadres and will have no right for 
on contingent basis is also the same, thc candidato older in 

absorption in the cadres to which they are trans 
age shall be deemed to be senior . 

forred temporarily . 


F Deputationists : 

Seniority of a Goveinment servant, whose services are 
obtained by the Commission on deputation forms is not re 
quired to he determined vis -a -vis the employees of the Com 
mission , 


( iii ) If, as a very special case , they are to be consi 

dered for absorption in the cadres to which they are 
temporarily transferred , their seniority will count 
only from the date of their transfer to the cadre 
in which they are actually working ( at the time 
their absorption is considered ) so as not to preju 
dice the rights and seniority of the personnel al 
ready recruited or promoted to thosc cadres ; even 
those recruited and promoted to those çadies on 
the day the personnel from other cadres are trans 
ferred will all rank senior to the personnol trans 
ferred from the other cadres . 


In the event of the eventual absorption of an officer on 
deputation , on termination of his licn in his parent depart 
mont by retirement, resignation or otherwise, his seniority 
vis-a - vis Commission s employees will be fixed from the date 
of eventual absorption in the Commission , 


G . Seniority of decentralised Cadres. 


(a ) The seniority in respect of decentralised cadres will 

be maintained regionwise, and in respect of former 
Class IV staff , office -wise . 


ANNEXURE III 


(b ) In the event of transfer of an employco belonging 

to decentralised cadres, in the interest of the Com 
inission , from one office to the other , or from ont 
region to the other icgion , the seniority of the 
cmployee will be retained in his original regions, 
and the employee will be considered for promo 
tion in his turn , in his parent region , 


(Regulation 21 ) 


TT 


MODEL TERMS OF FOREIGN SERVICE FOR THE 
OFFICERS SENT ON DEPUTATION OUTSIDE THE 

COMMISSION 


(c ) When auch an employee is due for promotion , to 

the next higher post , in his parent legion, he will 
be posted back to that region . In case, on account 
of exigencies of work , it is not possible to post 
the employee back to the region of his original 
posting , the employcc will be given proforma pro 
motion , if he is approved for promotion and the 
candidate next below him in the region will be pro 
moted to fill that vacancy ; 


( 1 ) Period of Deputation : 


The period of deputation will ordinarily be two years but 
it may be extended , with the concurrence of the foreign 
service employer upto a maximum period of five years . The 
period of deputation will begin from the date of banding 
over charge of the post in the Commission and end on the 
date of takingover charge to the post in Commission after 
ieversion from foreign service. The deputation may , how 
ever, be terminated by giving one months notice either by 
The Commission or by the foreign employer . 


( d ) Where the Commission decides that the employee 

concerned should go back to his parent region on 
promotion , and he refuses to do so , proforma pro 
motion will not be given to him . 


( e ) In case, an employee holonging to a decentralised 

cadre , is transferred at his own request, from one 
region to another , his name will be struck off and 
he will be placed at the bottom in the seniority list 
of the region to which he is transferred . 


At the end of the deputation period , the officer will have 
to decide either to reveit back to the Commission or to get 
absorbed in the borrowing organisation or Department of 
Government. 


H . Fixation of seniority on absorption of employees from one 

cadre to another : 


The following criteria shall be taken into account in fix 
ing senjority of employees absorbed in a cadre other than 
the one to which they belong : 


If a permanent employee of the Commission is selected 
for a post under the Government ( including a State Govern 
ment ) or in any other Public Sector Undertaking , he may 
be allowed to retain his lien for a maximum period of two 
years, subject to the condition thrt during the period for 
which he retains bis lien in the Commision his pay in the 
new organisation would not be more than what he would 
have drawn in the Commission plus the usual deputation al 
lowance. Also , the new employer of the employee himself 
agrees to pay contributions towards the leave salary. pen 
sion , gratuity and provident funds of the employee, to the 
Commission , 


( i) The Commission will be free to transfer employees 

from one cadre to another temporarily on admi 
nistrative grounds, e . g. transfer of work , non - avail 
ability of suitable men . 


2150 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III - SEC . 4 


Sms 


( 2 ) Pay : 


Contributions towards Leave Salary , Pension Gratuity 
and Provident Fund should be recovered from the borrow 
ing organisation or Government at appropriate rates , 


( 8 ) Children s Education Allowance or Assistance , 

Travel Concession and Medical Facilities : 


Leave 


During thc period of deputation , the officer , will have 
the option either to draw pay in the scale of the post to 
which he is transferred or apopinted or to draw pay of the 
post held by him in the Commission plus a deputation (duty ) 
allowance in accordance with and subject to the conditions 
of the Government of India , Ministry of Finance O . M . No . 
10 (24 ) / E - III / 60 dated 4th May, 1961 as modified from 
time to time and such other general or special orders isguc 
by the Government of India under para 1 ( ill ) of that Ofico 
Memorandum . If an employee goes to another organisation 
in an equivalont post , no deputation (duty ) allowance will 
be allowed . 


The officer will be entitled to these concessions or facilities 
on the scale admissible under , the rules of the borrowing 
organisation or Government or the Commission as may bo 
opted by him and the cost of such concession or facilities 
should be borne by the borrowing organisation or Govern 
ment. 


( 3 ) Dearness Allowunce : 


( 9 ) Extra -Ordinary Pension or Gratulty or Compensation : 


The officer will be entitled to dearness allowance under 
the rules of the Commission or under the rules of the hor 
rowing organisation or Government according as he retains 
his scale of pay under the Commission or he draws pay in 
the scale attached to the deputation post . 


The borrowing organisation or Government will be res 
ponsible for the payment of extra -ordinary pension or Gra 
tuity or Compensation that may be admissible under the 
rules of the Commission or any other statutory Actor 
Rules (o. g . Workmens Compensation Act, Employecs Stato 
Insurance Act ) if any injury is sustained or death during 
the period of deputation. 


( 4 ) Local Allowances : 


Payment of Compensatory Allowances, House Rent Allow 
ance and other local allowances should be regulated under 
tho rules of the borrowing organisation or Government, 


( 10 ) Liability for Disability Leave : 


(5 ) Joining Time Pay and Transfer Travelling Allowance : 


The borrowing organisation or Government will be liable 
to pay leave salary (including allowances ) in respect of dis 
ability leave granted to the officer on account of any dis 
ability incurred while on deputation even if such disability 
manifests itself after the termination of the deputation pe . 
riod , 


The officer will be entitled to Travelling Allowance and 
joining time both on joining the post on deputation and on 
icversion therefrom to the Commission under the rules of 
the borrowing organisation or Government, 


( 11 ) Liability for Payment of Dearness Allowance , Com 

pensatory Allowance , House Rent Allowance and orher 
Local Allowances during the period of Leave : 


(6 ) Travelling Allowance or Conveyance Allowance for 

Journeys on Duty during deputation ; 


To be regulated under the rules of the borrowing organi 
sation or Govcinment. 


All allowances payable during the periods of leave avail 
ed of by the officer while on deputation including the loavo 
taken at the ond of foreign service shall be paid by the 
borrowing organisation or Government. 


( 7) Leave or Pension or Gratuity or Provident Fund : 


( 12 ) Residential Accommodation : 


The officer will continuo to be governed by the Leave , 
Pension , Gratuity and Provident Fund Regulations of the 
Commission . 


The officer will pay rent for the accommodation provided , 
if any , according to the rules of tho borrowing organisation 
or Government, 


- - - - 


- - 


PART III — Sec , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 2151 

- = 

- 

CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 
Particulars : - B -Bombay; : C - Calcutta ; : M -Madras 

U — Cortificato for unrestricted public exhibition . 
A - Certificate for public oxhibition rostricted to adults 

i.e . persons who have completed 18th Years , 
Application Name of the film with Longth of tho Namo of the porsons Name of the persons Nature of 
No. language and country film in metrosor Co , applying for the or Co , who have pro - certifcate 
of origin and no , rools , certificate with address . duced the film with 

grantod 
addross 

and date 
of corti 
foato issuod 
or date on 
which 
was 
rofusod 


- - - - - 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certification by the Central Board of Film Censors during the 

week ending 9th February , 1974 


P . E . 


B / 71181 


" Haryana at Asia - 72 " 

Col. ) (35mm ) 


B / 70833 


" Baghi Quwal” (Hin . ) 
(Col.) (35mm .) 


U 
337 41 M /s Shyam Benegal, Mg Shyam Bengal , 74310 
Sahyadri Films, Sahyadri 

Film . .. 
Jyoti Studios, Ken Jyoti Studios Ken 4 - 2 - 74 
nedy Bridge, Bom nedy Bridge, Bom 
bay - 7 . bay - 7 

U 
606 .00 (2 ) Pasvinkumar, Rajas - S . Mehboob , Rajaştan 74311 

tan Guest House , Guest Houso , S . V . 
V . R . Rd., Old Khar, Rd., Khas, Bom 4 - 2 - 74 
Bombay - 52 bay - 52 . 

U 
30 -48 ( 1) M /s Film 5 , Jyoti M /s Film 5 , Jyoti 74312 

Studio , Kennedy Studio , Kennedy - 
Bridge Bombay - 7. Bridge, Bombay- 7. 4 - 2 - 74 


B /71203 


" Twice As Good " 
(Eng.)( Col.)(33mm .) 


B /71161 


74313 


P . E . 


" Vision USA - 18 " 
( Eng.) (Col. ( 16mm .) 


245 - 36 ( 1) United States Infor - Thomas Craven , 

mation Service . 4 , 
Now Marine Lines , 
Bombay - 20 . 


4 - 2 -74 


U 


B /71132 


267 .00 ( 1) 


- do 


- do 


74314 


P . E . 


" Vision USA - 17 "* 
(Eng .) (Col. 16mm .) 
(USA ) 


4 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /70673 


" Chaudhary Harphul 3631 .07 (14 ) Kamboj, Films, Nav - Ranjeet Choudhary, 74315 With triangle mark . 
Singh (Jat Julani 

joovan Society , Haroam Choudhary . -- - 
Wala ) (Haryanvi) Lamington Rd., 

5 - 2 - 74 
( B /W ) (35mm .) 

Bombay -4 . 
Endorsement : 

Original Length : 3712 -64m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No . 
1. ID : Delete the symbolic shot of Okhalı and kiss between the mother and father of Harphul Singh . 

- 2 . 89m . 
2 . VI : (a ) Delete the portion of the first shot where Harphul is seen lying in the field with his girl friend — 3 .73m . 

(6 ) In the scene of Harphul fighting two brothers , reduce the fight, deleting hard hitting shots and reducing 

fights with farm implements and strangulations — 10 .06m . (Length retained ; 44 .80 m . ) 
( c ) Reduce the shot of dying expression on Harphul s bro 

And the tilt down whore blood is seon 
pouring out of the wound. Also deleto vomitting of blood by the same brother . - 19 - 20m . 
3 . VII : Reduce the impact of violence in the scene of killing of brother - in - law falling to the ground . Delete the 

killing of three police constablos, keeping only tho oxchange of fire for the continuity of story - - 14 .02m . 

(Length rotalned : 1 . 22m .) 
IX : Reduce tho fight betwoen Mittukhan and Harphul. singh . — 4 .83m . ( Longth retained : 20 -47m .) 
IX : In tho sequence of cow -glaughter, delota both the shots of weapons being raised at the cows and killing of 

butchers by Harphul– 6 . 70m . 
6 . XI : Reduce the impact of killing by deloting shots of police officer falling down after he has been hit by a 
bullot, - -135m . 

olated completely ) 
: Reduce fight in tho jail compound by deleting violont shots — 5 .48m . (Length retained : 3 .36m .) 
XIII : Delete the killing of police officer and Ranjoot - - 5 .62m . 
XIV : Reduce shots of blood smeared back of Harphul aftor he is shot by police _ 7 .69m . 

( Longth retained : Nil) (Deleted completely ) . 
Length of deletions : 81 .57m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be: 3631 •07m . in 14 Reels. 


tro 


XIII 


: R 


oci 


2152 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III — Sec . 4 


- - - - - - 


(1) 


(3 ) 


(6 ) 


B / 71119 


U ) 
74316 


" Excorpts Of " Ek 
Adhuri Kahani” 
(Hin .) ( 35mm ) 


741 15 (3 ) Arun Kaul, 27 -Western Arun Kaul, 27 -Western 

India House , S . P . M . India House , Fort – 
Road , Fort Bombay - 1. Bombay - 1. 


5 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71255 


74317 


" Trailer of Hindustan 
Ki Kasam " (Hin .) 
(Col. ) ( 35mm .) 


60 - 00 ( 1) Snoh Films, 242- Snoh Films, 242 - 

Famous Cino Bldg ., Famous Cine Bldg., - - 
Bombay - 11. 

Bombay - 11. 


5 - 2 - 74 
U 
74318 


B /71215 


" Haryana Samachar 
Darshan No . 12 " 
(Hin .) ( 35mm .) 


273 -10 (1 ) R . P . Kosri, Deputy Shri Ashok Pahwa , 

Director , Pub . Relu - Dir, of Pub . Relation . 
tion , Haryana . 


6 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71252 


74319 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1321 " (35mm .) 


207 00 ( 1 ) Filns Division , Govt. Filmns Division , Bom 

of India , 24 - Peddar bay- 26 . 
Road, Bombay - 26 . 


6 - 2 - 74 


(Valid for Eng. , Hin , 
Mar ., Guj.. Tam , 
Tel., Kan . , Mal. 
Agsm . , Oriya , Pun , 
Bon , Kash ., Urdu 
& Sindhi. 


B /71113 


74320 


Not PE . 


" Recordod In Hoochst " 
( Eng.). ( Col. )(16mm . ) 
( W . G .) 


31000 (1) Hoechst Pharmaceuti - Farbwerke Hoechst AG . 

cal Ltd ., Backbay 
Reclamation , B bay - 20 


6 - 2 - 74 
U 
74321 Not PE , 


B /71112 


247.00(1) 


-do 


-do 


“ The Years Decision " 
( Eng.) ( Col.)(16mm .) 
(AG .) ( W .G .) 


6 - 2 -74 


U 


B /71208 


74322 Not PE . 


" The Vintago" (Aus 
tralian Colour Diary 
No. 40 ) (Eng .) (Col.) 
(16mm . )(Australia ) 


75 . 00 (1 ) Australiun High Com - Australian Common . 

mission , Now Delhi-21 wealth Film Unit. 


7 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71207 


255 .00 ( 1) 


-do 


- do 


74323 


PE 


" Introducing Austra 
lian Football " (Eng .) 
(Col.) ( 16min .) 
(Australia ). 


7 - 2 -74 


U 
74324 Not PE . 


B / 71205 


122 -00 (1) 


- do 


- do 


" Lacrodiblo Floridas " 
( Eng.) (Col.)(16mm .) 
(Australia ) 


7 - 2 - 74 

U 
74325 PE . 


B /71163 


" Spot Prevention " 
(Meaglog ) (Eng.) 
(Col.) ( 16mm .) (USA ) 


152 - 40 ( 1 ) National Edu. of 10 - National Medical 

formation Film Ltd . Audio - visual Contrc . -- 


7 - 2 -74 
U 
74326 


B /71168 


213 - 36 ( 1) 


-do 


-do 


PE 


" Management of the 
Leprosy Patient" 
(Eng.) (Col.) (16mm .) 


7 -2 -74 


U 


B /71170 


182 .88 (1) 


182-88(1) 


-do 


do 


U.S. Navy 


U . S . Navy 


74327 PE 


“ Crane Operations : 
Floating Cranos" 
(Eng.)( 16mm .)(USA ) 
" Influonza Virus Iso 
lation " ( Eng. )(Col.) 
(16mm .) (USA ) 


7 - 2 - 74 
U 
74328 PE 


B /71228 


60 . 96 ( 1 ) National Education National Medical 

of Information Film Audio Visual Contro . — 
Ltd ., National 
House, Tullach 
Road, Bombay - 1 . 


7 -2 -74 


U 
74329 


B / 71206 


PE . 


" Irrigation : The Ord 
River Schome and 
M . I. A . Eng.) (Col.) 
( 16mm .) (Australia ) 


184 .00 ( 1) Australian High Australian Common 

Commission , Now wealth Film Unit . 
Dolhi- 21. 


7- 2 -74 


B /71251 


" Baba Sheikh Farld " 
(Eng.) (35mm . ) 


74330 PE 


461 .77 (1 ) Films Division , Govt. Filins Division , Bom 

of India , 24 - Peddar bay - 26 . 
Road, Bombay -26 . 


7 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71245 


74331 


" Tr, of Quaidi No. 
911" (Hin . )(35mm . ) 


67 . 06 ( 1) Asian Film Corpora - Super Pictures, Manek 

tion Alankar Cinema Chambers , Laming - - -- 
Bldg ., Bombay 4 . ton Rd ., Bombay - 4 . 


7 - 2 - 74 


B /71229 


1330 -15(3 ) 


Energy 


74332 PE . 


" Introduction To 
Analoguo Computor 
Part 1 , II & III” 
(Eng.) ( Col.) (16mm .) 
(USA ) 


National Edu , & In - U . S . Atomic 
formation Films Commission . 
Ltd , National Houso , 
Tulloch Road , Bom 
bay - 1 . 


7 - 2 - 74 


-- - 


PART III _ SEC. 4 ] THE GAZE ITE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) 


2153 


( 4 ) 


(6 ) 


B / 70800 


" My Friend " (Hindi) 3934 

Poonam Pictures , Mr. Poonambhal Shah 74333 With triangle mask . 
(Colour ) (35mm .) 

Pvt., Ltd ., 144 , Dr. Mr. Narayanbhal J . - - 
D . N . Rd ., Bombay - 1. Patel 

8 - 2 -74 
Endorsement.: 

Original Length : 3934 -36m . 
Cur. No. Reel No . 
1. IV : Delete the underlined words from the following sentence said by Premanand to the girl : 

" Morc Prom -khanc mon ayee , app ko kis par bittavo " , 

( Deleted sound) (Replaced with apprcvcd veids ) 
2 . VII : In the cabret sequonce , delete the view of a man placing his hand on tho baro thigh of Julie - 1 -22m . 

(Replaced witli approved shots : 1 . 22m .) 
The length of the film remajas unchanged . 1. c. 3934 -36m . in 15 reels . 


U 


B /71186 


74334 Not PE . 


Pahola Woh Ghar 
Khuda Ka" (Urdu ) 
(Col.) (35mm .) 


281 . 94 (1) Sundeer . 5 - 1 Naaz Sundeep , 5 -1 Naaz 

Cinema Bldg., Bom Cinema Bldg., Bom - - 
bay. 4 

bay -4 . 


8 - 2 -74 


B / 71268 


B /70798 


“ Flame of Persia " 1828 - 80 (6 ) IMP Consulate Gone - Ministry of Art & 74335 
(Eng .) (Col.) (35mm .) ral of Iran , Bombay . Calture of Iran 

8 - 2 - 74 

A 
“ Aangse Ang Lagale " 3799 -75 ( 14 ) Shlvkumar Produc- Shivkumar. 

3215 With triangle mark . 
(Hjn . ( Col.) ( 35mm .) 

tions , 8 - Rawal Cham 
bors, Parel, Bom 

5 - 2- 74 
bay- 12 . 
Endorsement: 

Original Length : 3828 - 30m . 
Cut Reel 
No No. 
1. V : Reduce the scene in which the mother whips Rajesh with a belt. — 0 .98m . 

(Length retained : 12 - 19m .) 
2 . IX : Delete the shot in which Salomi kisses Surjit on the cheek . – 0 . 26m , 

(Repluced with approvod shots : 0 - 26m .) 
3. IX (1) Redeuce the scene in which Rajesh moves his lips over Salomi s right hand and Surjit moves his lips 

on her left hand. — 3 - 83m . 
(Longth retained : 3 . 43m . ) 

( ii ) Delete the following dialoguo : " The strangont kiad of orgy." 2 .80 n . 
4 . X : Delete the last shot in which Nocla whllo lying with Rajesh on the cot turns ovor towards him revealing 

her bare back — 3 . 96m . 
5. XIV : Reduce the scene of operation on Rajosh deleting close -ups of his blood -smeared face and /or the profile 

17 . 48m , 
Length of deletions : 28 -81m . 
Length of approved replacement : 0 . 26m . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be: 3799 . 75m , in 14 reels. 
Endorsement Under Rule 34 
B /71218 - 19 
Film : " Broakthrough " (Eng.) 
U - Cert . No, 74191 of 11 - 1- 1974 . 

This certificate is also valid for Marathiand Gujarati versions of the film . The longth of the Glm remains unchanged . 

This certificate was ondorsed on 5th February, 1974 . 
B / 71219 
Film : “ Doctor in the Iłouşe" (Hindi) 
U - Cert , No. 64408 of 6 -11 - 1971 . 

This certificato is also valid for Tainil version of tho film in colour . Tho longth of the film remains unchanged , 

This certificate was endorsed on 5th February , 1974 . 
B /71012 
Film : “ Akbar " (Colour ) 
U -Cert. No . 51624 of 22 -8 - 1967. 

This certificate is also valid for French version of the film in colour. The length of thọ film romains unchanged . 

This carțificato was ondorsed on 7th February, 1974 . 
B / 71014 
Film : “ Ahmad Jaan Thirakwa" (Hindi) (35mm .) 
U -Cort. No . 64038 of 9 - 9 - 1971 . 

This certificate is also valid for French version of the film . The length of the film remains unchanged , 
This cartificate was endorsed on 7th February, 1974 . 


2154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART 1I - SEC . 4 


- - - 


- - - - - - 


- - - - - 


- 


( 1 ) 


( 1 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


( 5) 


(6) 


(7 ) 


B /71012 
Film : " Transcendence " (Eng .) (35mm .) 
U -Cert. No , 70343 of 19 - 7 - 1972 . 

This certificate is also valid for French version of the filin . The length of the film romalny unchangod . 

This certificate was endorsed on 7th February , 1974 . 
B /63891 
Film : " Stoel A Whole Now Way of Life " (Eng.) (Col.) 
U -Cort. No . 64136 of 22 - 9 - 1971 
Deloted various shots : 21-80m . 
Actual length of the Alm after the aforesaid dolctions will be 547 . 57m , 

This cortificate was endorsod on 8th February, 1974 . 
B / 70980 
Film : " Indian News Reviow No. 1314 ” (Southern Edition ). 
U -Cert. No . 74094 of 19 - 12 - 1973 . 

Deleted various shots : 204 . 53m . 
Added various shots : 203 - 53m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will bo : 29500m , 
This certificate wus endorsed on 8th February , 1974 , 

Week ending 9th February, 1974 . 


U 


C /7965 


Sharmila (Bengali) 


3520 -44 ( 14 ) Cino Koality 57, Cine Koality $ 7 , 

Lenin Sarani, Cal- 13 Lenin Sarani, Cal-13 . 


73372 


— 


6 - 2 - 74 
U 
73373 


C - 7968 


Natun Pasal-Natun 
Asha ( Bengali)(Col.) 


609 60 (20 ) Look Publicity 


Director of Agriculture 
Govt . of W . Bengal 


7 - 2 - 74 


Woek Ending Saturday 22 - 2 - 74 


U 


M /8411 


Kallyuga Kankanda 

Doiyam (Tamil ) 
35mm . B & W . India 


67411 


600 -00 ( 2 ) Shri S . Durga 

Madras. 


Rao , Shri S , Durga Ran 

Madras , 


5 - 2 - 74 


U 


M /8351 


Aada Pillalu Ardha 3714 -28( 14 ) Sridhar Kalamandir , Dr. M . V . Gopala Rao, 67412 Wità cuts. 
Ratri Hatyalu 

Madras. 

Madras , 
( Telugu ) 35mm . B & W 

5 - 2 - 74 
Endorsement on cort , No . 67412 -U dt. 5- 2 -74 issued to the film Aada Pillalu Ardha Ratri Hatyalu ( Telugu ). 
Length applied . 3714 - 27 Metres. 
Cuts : 

Mts , 
Reel 4 _ Song 1 - Delete song - text in full. (Replaced with approved song - text-Sound only ) 
Actual length of the film remains same, namely 3714 . 28 Mts, in 14 Reels 


M / 8420 


304 -80 (1) Anand Arts, Madras, 


Sree Krishna Loolai 
( Tamoll) 35mm . B & W 
India 


Shri R . Narasimha Rao 
Madras 


67413 


3 - 2 - 74 
U 
67414 


M / 8432 


3809 38 ( 15 ) 


Films, 


Urvashi (Kannada ) 
35mm . B & W India 


Kalpataru 
Bangaloro 


Films, Kalpataru 

Bangalore 


6 - 2 - 74 


U 


M /8435 


M / 8401 


M / 8433 


Gandadha Cudi 415 .00 (2 ) Bharani Chitra , Shri M . P . Shantar, 67415 
100th Day Colobra 

Муздге 

Mysore 
lon (Kannada ) 

6 -2 - 74 
35mm , B & W . India , 

U 
Mister Sundari " 3038 -55 (14 ) Reetu En [erprises, Smt. T . Komalam , 67416 
(Re- rovised ) (Mala 

Madras 

Madras 
yalam ) 35mm . B & W 

7 - 2 - 74 
India 

U 
Dhruva Vijayam 4070 90 ( 14 ) Mukunda Movics , Mukunda Movies, 67417 With cuts . 
( Tolugu ) 35mm . B & W 

Madras Madras , 

8 - 2 -74 
Endorsement on cort. No 67417 U dt. 8th February 1974 issued to film Dhruva Vijayam ( Telugu ) 35mm , B & W , 
Longth applied — 4071 . 81 Mts . 
Cuts 
1 . Reel 6 - Delete the shot of the snake actually biting Uttam , 

0 .91 
2 . Reel 10Delete the old man describing Narada Maharishi 44 " Kothala Rayudu " 
( Sound only - - replaced approved words) 

Total 

0 .91 


Actual length is 4070 90 Mts , in 14 Reels . 


2155 

- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


PART IIT _ SEC . 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
- - - - -- - --- - - - - - - - - - 

-- - - 
Week Ending 16th Februdny 1975 
— - - - - 
(1) (2) (3 ) 

(4) 

(5) 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


B /68693 


74336 


P . E . 


" The Cross in The 

Lotus " ( Eng .) (Col.) 
(16ınm .) 


254 - 20 ) AMA Pv .. Lid ., Cun - Caruvs Jabalpur . 

ada Bldg ., Dr. D . N . 
Roari, Bombay - 1. 


( 3 ) 


11 - 2 - 74 


U 


B / 71159 


74337 


P . E . 


" Ono For All, All For 

One " ( Eng .) ( 16mm . ) 


220 . 00 ( 2 ) Films Division , Govt 

of ladie , 24 -Pedding 
Road , Bombay - 26 . 


Films Division , Govt . 

of India , 24 -Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 . 


11 - 2 - 74 

U 
74338 


B /70945 


" Stop -Look & Listen " 
( Eng.) (Col ) ( 35mm .) 


Boga , 


P . E , 


73 . 16 ( 1) Mr. Sohrab Boga , Mr. Sohrab 

Nishaan Motion Pic -, Bombay - 26 . 
tures , Vagant Vihars 
Carmichael Road , 
Bombay - 400026 . 


11 - 2 - 74 


B /71171 


74339 


P . E . 


Help Us to Help 
You " (Eng.) (32mm . ) 


495 .43( 2 ) The Dir . General of The Dir . General of 

Information & Pub - Information Pub 
lic Relations. Govt. lic Relations , Govt . 
of Maharashtrz . 

of Muharashtra 


11 - 2 - 7 


B /71253 


1319 . 00) 


74340 


P . E . 


" Now Ryhthms in 
Nagaland " ( Eng .) 
(35mm .) 


films Division , Govt. Films Division , Bombay 

of India , 24 - Peddar 26 . 
Road , Bombay -26 . 


11- 2 - 74 

U 
74341 


B /71267 


" Nagaland Rovisited " 
( Eng.) (35 mm ) 


774 .00 (3 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


P . E . 


11 - 2 - 74 

U 
74342 Not P . E . 


1 /69865 


" Rubens 
( 16mm .) 


(Eng.) 


700 - 00 ( 2 ) Consulate General of Henri Storck of Paul 

Bolgium 11 - Carmichael Haesaerts . 
Road , Bombay -26 . 


12 - 2 - 77 

U 
74343 


# /71809 


" Uttar Pradosh Ke 
Barthe ( Hindi) 
(35mm .) (Kadam 


30 .48 (1 ) Rashtriya Jan Jagriti, Rashtriya Jan Jagriti , 

Panished , 2833/ 5 - New Delhi-110655 . 
Bhagat Singh , Sircot 
Raj Guru Roud , 
New Delhi-110655 


12- 2 - 74 


U 


B /71308 


B / 70110 


" Gozool 
.) 


( 


" Jaan Leo Sab Sachai 30 -48( 1) 

Do . 

Do , 

74344 
(Hin ) (35 m m ) 

12 - 2 - 74 

U 
" God s Love In Action 294 . 13 ( 1 ) S . S . Rao , C - 20 , 1st S . S . Rao , C - 20 , 1st 74345 With triangle mark . 
(Engl.) (Col.) 

floor Royal Optical floor Optical Indu 
(35mm .) 

Industrial Estate , strial Estate Naig 13- 2 - 74 
Naigaon Cross Rd., gaon Cross Rd ., 
Bombay- 31 

Bombay- 31. 
Endorsement 
Original Length : 297 . 79 m . 
Delete the closeup of mutilated face of a patient which is being cleaned by a nun , keeping only a flash of If for tho 

sake of continuity. – 3 . 66 m . 
Length of the leletions : 3 .66ın . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 294 . 13 m . 

U 
" Uttar Pradesh Sama 27310 ( 1 ) Dhirendra Pande, c / o The Dir , of Information 74346 
chac - 21 " (Hindi) 

Bombay Film Labora . Govt . of UP . 
(35mm .) (Lacknow ) tory PVT. Ltd . 

13-2 74 
Dadar, Bombay -28 . 


B /71293 


U 


B /71294 


74347 


“ Mahitichitra No . 179 

(Gujrati) (35mm .) 


233 . 00 ( 1 ) Liaison Officer, Govt. 

of Gujarat. 


Dir . of Information 
Govt. of Gujarat 


13 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71306 


" Indian Nows Review 
No. 1322 ( 32mm . ) 


171 .00 ( 1) Films Divison , Govt. Films Division , 

of India , 24 - Poddar Bombay - 26 . 
Road , Bombay - 26 . 


74348 (Valid for Eng .. 

Hindi, Tam ., Tel ., 
13 - 2 - 74 Kan ., Mal. , Ass ., 

Oriya ., Pun ,, Beng., 
Kash & Urdu ., 

vorsion , 
U 
74349 Valid for Eng. , 

- Hin ., Mar ., Guj. 
13 - 2 - 74 Sindhi vorsion ) 

U 
74350 PE. 


B /71307 


265 .00 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


" I. N . R . No , 1322 " 
(Western ( Edition ) 
(35mm .) 


B /71284 


" Naica Plcaca La 
Bucurosti" (Romanian 
(Col.) (35mm .) 


564 .00 ( 2) National Education Romania Films, 

and Information 
Films Ltd ., National 
House , Tulloch Road 
Bombay - 1 . 


41- 2 - 74 


3 – 36961/75 


2156 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III — Sec . 4 


ECEMBER 13,1975(AGRAHAYANA22,1897)(Parr -Sec.« 


- - - 


- = 


- 2 


- 


- - - - - 


( 5) 


( O ) 


U 
74351 


B / 71286 


Romania Films, 


P . F . 


" Stircul Pagare Rep 
tila " (Romanian ) 
( Col. ) ( 35mm ) 


387 ( 0X1) National Education & 

Information & Films 
Ltd ., National Houso , 
Tulloch 

Rout 
Bombay -1 . 


14 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71280 


121 . 92 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


74352 


P . E . 


" How a Boiling Water 
Reactor Operatos " 
(Eng.) (Col.) (16mm .) 
(USA ) 


General Electric Edu - 
cational Films, 


14- 2 -74 


U 
74353 


B /71281 


121 . 92 (1) 


P . E . 


" Pathways to Modern 
Mathematics , II Rela 
ting Sets To Num 
bers" (Eng .) (Col. ) 
( 16mm .) (USA .) 


14 - 2 -74 


B /71282 


121 .92 (1 ) 


74354 


P . E . 


“ Pathways to Modern 
Mathematics , I Thin 
king . In sets " ( Eng .) 
(Col.) (13mm .) (USA ) 


11 
.921 
121 940) 


Dec 
Do 
. 


14-2 - 74 


U 


B / 71286 


121 .92 (1) 


77355 


P , E , 


“ Com putors at Work " 
(Eng.) ( Col.) (16mm .) 
(USA ) 


14 - 2 - 74 

U 
74356 


B /71287 


121 -92 (1) 


P . E . 


" Magnetism at Work " 
(Eng .) (Col. ) ( 16mm . 
(USA ) 


14 - 2 -74 

U 
74357 


B /71283 


100 -68(1) 


P ,E 


" Youe and the Com 
puter " ( Eng.) ( Col.) 
( 16mm .) (USA ) 


142- 74 


U 
74358 Not P . E , 


B /71115 


“ Glimpsos of India " 
(Northern Region ) 
Music Efficts Only ) 
(Col.) (No Commen 
tary) ( 35mm . ) 


344 . 00 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , 

of India , 24 -Peddar Bombay -26 . 
Road , Bombay - 26 . 


14 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /70997 


" Apka Sihiyak " (Hin . 

(Col.) (35mm . ) 


30 . 48 (1 ) 


74359 


S, S , Oboroi, M / s Art Mr. S . S . Oberol. 
Commercia , Manek 
Chambers , 299- A . 
Lamingtion Road , 
Bombay 4 . 


ME.5.5.Oberoit 


pas 


14 - 2 - 74 


B /71258 


30 .00 ( 1) 


U 
74360 


KALP . 


" Pure Pani Bharpur 
Munafa " (Mar.) 
(Col.) ( 35mm .) 


KALP , B - 1 , 3 - 2 
Samrudhi Housing 
Society , Bhayani 
Shankar Road , 
Dadar- 28 . 


14 -2 - 74 


B /71217 


29 .87 (7 ) 


U 
74361 


Do. 


" The Tell Tale Bite " 

(Eng .) (Col) (35mm .) 


Do . 


14 - 2 - 74 


B /71266 


" The Monaco" (Eng .) 
(Col.) (35mm .) 


30 .48 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


U 
74362 


14 - 2-74 


B /71254 


" Subha Ka Bhula " 
(Hin . (35mm .) 


30 -48 ( 1) Movie, Centro 12 - M . W . Muadam 

74363 
Deepali Off Pery 
Road, Bandra , 

14 - 2 - 74 
Bombay-50 . 

U 
30 . 48 ( 1 ) R . P . Nagar, Pallani R . P . Nagar , Pallani 74264 

Films, 28 /210 Gopal Films, 28 /210 Gopal - - 
Pura , Agra - 2 . Pura , Agra - 2 . 

14- 2 - 74 


B /71247 


" Ankhean 
Nlamat " 
(35 mm ) 


Hazar 
(Hindi) 


B /71248 


" Sathi Kisan Ka" 
(Hindi) (35 mm .) 


91 -5( 1) 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


74365 


74365 


14- 2 - 74 


PART fil - Sec . 4 ; THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2157 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


= 


= 


- - - - - 


- 


- - - - - 


S 


- 
- 


- - 


- 


G 


- - 


- 


1 


2 


6 


B /71196 


Sharma, 


" Sandalwood Nycil" 
( Col.) (35 mm .) 


3000 ( 1 ) Kamla Sharma, Wide - Kamala 

screen 4 - Shirin , Bombay -5 . 
Colaba , Bombay -5 . 


74366 (Valld for Hin , 

Beng. , Tam ., Telu ., 
14 - 2 - 74 Kan . & Mal. 

Versions ). 


B /66849 


triangle 


" Transforinations" 
( Eng .) (Col.) (16 mm . ) 
FRG . ) 


316 - 39 (1) Congualto General Cinoccutrin Hamburg , 

of Federal Republic 
of Germany, Bombay . 


74367 P . E , with 

- mark . 
14 - 2 - 74 


Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 317 . 00 m . 

Delete the shot in which a boy stands oude at the swimming pool before he dives into the water . -- 0 ,61 m , 
Length of deletions : 0 .61 in . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 316 -39 m . 


U 


B /71313 


“ Work Study & Poo - 
ple " (Eog.) (Col.) 
( 16 mm .) ( U .K . ) 


344 :42(1) The Principal Rly . Vulean World Wide 

College , Pictures . 
Bombay 4 . 


74368 

— P. E . 
15 - 2 - 74 

U 
74369 

- With triangle mark . 
16 - 2 - 74 


B /71246 


" Tr, of Ang Se Ang 
Lagale 
(35 mm .) 


85 . 21 (1) Film Effocts, 117 - Shiv Kumar Produc 

Famous Cine Studios, tions , 
Mahalaxmi, Bombay 
11. 


Endorsenient : 
Original length : 88 -39 m . 

1. Delete shots of suggestive kissings — 2 - 17 m . 
2. Delete the flash of an emphasised bosom of a woman . — 0 - 54 m . 
3 . Delete the superimposed title " Sex and Love" : - 0 . 91 m . 

(Replaced with approved title - 0 -91 m .) 
4 . Delete the shot of a boy throwing a girl on the bed . - 0 .47 m . 
Length of deletions : 4 .09 m . 
Length of replacement : 0 . 91 m . 
Actual length of the filni after the aforesaid alterations will be : 85 - 21 m . 


U 
74370 


B / 71351 


" Narangi Inquilab ” 
(Hindi) ( Col.) ( 35 mm .) 


29 . 87 (1 ) Trio Films, Jyoti Trio Films, Jyoti 

Studios , Kennedy Studios , Kennedy — 
Bridge, Bombay - 7. Bridge, Bombay - 7. 


16 -2 -74 


U 


B / 71312 


Fur 
Fus 


74371 


" The Turbulout Podco " 
(Eng .) ( Col.) ( 16mm .) 
(FRG .) 


414 - 20 ( 1) Consulato Goneral of Gosellschaft 

tho Fodorul Republic Bildende Film , 
of Germany. Ramon 
House , Bombay - 20 . 


P . E . 


16 - 2 - 74 


B /69567 


" Bharat Teerth " (Eng . 

(Col.) ( 35mm .) 


Not P . E . 


310 .00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 74372 

of India , 24 -Pcddar of India , 24 -Peddar - - - - 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 16 -2 -74 

U 
250 . 11( 1) Tractel Tirfor India Tractel S , A , 

74373 
Pyt. Lid . , B / 56 , 

_ _ . 
Grcater Kailash , Part 

16 - 2 -74 
Ti New Delhi.-48 . 


B / 71202 


P . E . 


" Applications of 

Tractel Tifor T-13 
and T -35 " (Eng .) 
( 16mm .) ( France) 


B /71133 


Robert Foster , 


" Scionce Rcport 146 

B " (Eng . ) ( 16mm . ) 
(USA ) 


143 . 26 ( 1) United States Infor- 

mation Service , 4 
New Marino Lines , 
Bombay - 20 . 


U 
74374 

— 
16 - 2 - 74 


P . E . 


U 


B / 71318 


" Ewald Mataro " (Eng.) 
( 16mm .) (FRG .) 


376 . 00 ( 1 ) Consulate General of Westdeutscher Rund 

the Federal Republic funk koln . 
of Germany, Ramon 
House, Bombay - 20 . 


74375 

- 
16 - 2 -74 


P . E . 


B /71317 


256 . 00 (1 ) 


Do . 


" People of The Saar " 
(Eng.) ( 16mm .) (FRG .) 


Audax Films 
(SAARLAND ) 


74376 

- P . L . 
16 - 2- 74 


2158 

- 


- - 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [ PART 111 - - Sec . 4 
- - - - - - - - 

- ---- -- - - - - - = = - - - - - - = = - - - - 
3 * 4 

5 

6 

7 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


2 


B /71316 


B /71311 


Consulate General of 
" Working with Glass " 238 .00 ( 1) the Fedral Republic Rhewes Production 74377 
( Eng. ) ( 16min . ) (FRG ) . of Germany , Ramon GMPH . 

- P . E . 
House, Bombay -20 . 

16 - 2 - 74 

U 
" Well of Life " (Eng . ) 299 . 92 ( 1) United States Informa- Tom Beemer, 

74378 
( Col. ) ( 16mm . ) (USA ) tion Service , 4 -New 

- .- - P . E . 
Marine Lincs, 

16 - 2 - 74 
Bombay - 20 , 
Endorsement under Rule 34 . 

B /71249 -51 
Film : " Special Help For Baby" (Hin .) (Col.) 
U - Cert. No. 74187 of 11- 1 - 1974 . 
This cortificale is also valid for Bengali, English and Marathi versions of the film in colour. The length of the 

film remains unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 11th February , 1974 . 
B / 71296 
Film : " Sukhi Jeevan Ka Sahi Prabhand " (Hindi) (Col.) 
U -Cert. No. 72840 of 2 -7 - 1973. 
This certificate is also valid for English , Gujarati, Punjabi, Marathi, Bengali, Oriya and Assamese versions of the 

film in colour . 
The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificate was endorsed on 12th February, 1974 . 
B /70497 
Film : " Shaitan " (Hindi) (35mun .) (Col.) 
A - Cert. No. 3214 of 21 -1 -1974 , 
Reel XII ; Deleted various shots : 123 . 75ın 

XIV : Deleted various shots : 54 . 25 m . 

XIV ; Added various shots : 59 .74 m . 
Length of deletions : 178 .00 m . 
Length of additions : 59 .74 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid altcrutions will be : 3564 - 94 m . In 14 reels , 

This certificate was endorsed on 14th February, 1974 . 
B / 71237 -44 
Film ; " Take Care of Him " (Eng .) 
U -Cort. No. 74260 of 26 -1 -1974 , 
This certificate is also valid for Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati , Bengali , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada and Malayalam ver 

sions of the film in colour, The length of the filin remains unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 15th February, 1974 , 
B /64850 
Film : " Changing Perspectives " 
U -Cert, No . 64905 of 30 - 12 - 1971. 
Deleted end titlc 1970 : 3 .00 m . Addled end tillo 1973 : 3 .00 m . The length of the film remains unchanged ice , 

264 . 00 m . The filın is in colour and not in Black & White . This certificate was endorsed on 16th February , 

1974 . 
B /69069 
Film : “ Aabadi” (Hindi) (35mm .) 
U -Cort. No. 72734 of 15-6 -1973. 
The length of tho film on the face of the certificate may be lead as 75 . 90 m . instead of 152 .40 m . Deleted various 

shots : 58 . 22 m . 
Added various shots : 24 .99 in , 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 42 .67 m . 

Week ending 16th February, 1974 . 
CALCUTTA 

U 
Bangladesh Biman 45 -72 ( 1) Sarawati Chitran Saraswati Chitram 73374 
( Eng .) (Col.) (35mm .) 

162 / 86 , Lake Gar - 162 / 86 , Lake Gar 
dons, Calcutta , dens , Calcutta , 

11 - 2 - 74 


C /7974 


U 


C / 7975 


Buktatilak (Bougali) 


73375 With triangle work , 


4293 . 90 ( 16 ) Trio Films 6 , 

Mall, Dum 
Cal- 28 , 


The Biswajit Chattorjee , 
Dum 6 , Tho Mall, Dum 

Dun , Cal- 28 . 


13 - 2 - 74 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


2159 


PART III _ SEC. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 
- - = = = 

- - -- -- - -- - - = - = = - = 
2 3 4 

6 


S - Juz 


7 


Endorsement : 
Original length : 4335 . 17 metres 
1. Reel 1 : Delete the shot showing Zaminder offering money 

by the mouth to the dancing girl : 1 . 22 metres, 
2, Reel 6 : (a ) Reduce to the barest minimum the scene depicting Aku Singh bring dragged tied to the 

Zcop : 2 . 44 metres. 

(Length retained : 4 .88 metres ) 

(b ) Delete the torture in the Police Cell : 32 .61 meties 
Total deletions : 36 - 27 motres 
Final length aftor above deletions and reductions will be : 4298 . 90m , 
Particulars of Film Certified -- Week Ending 16 .2.74 . 
MADRAS 

U 
"Matsushita Kan Expo 329 .( 18 ) 1) lndo -National Ltd ., Matsushita Eloctric 67418 
70 (Colour) (Japanesc ) 

Madras . 

Industrial Co . Ltd ., - 
Japan (16 mm . ). 

OSA , Japan . 

11- 2 -74 

U 
1972 Non Matsushita 109 . 72 (1) Do. 

Do , 

67419 
Glyyutsuten (Colour ) 
Japanese ( 16 mm .) 

11- 2 - 74 
Japan , 


M /8361 


M /8362 


U 


M /8363 


219 . 45 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


67420 


Dainikai Matsushita 
Gijyutsuten (Colour ) 
(Japaneso ) (16 mm . ) 
Japan . 


11 -2 -74 


U 


M /8364 


164 . 59 ( 1) 


Do , 


Do . 


67421 


Denchi No Gijyutsu 

( Japaneso ) (Colour) 
( 16 min .) Japan . 


11- 2 - 74 


U 


M /8365 


274 - 32 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


67422 


Time Capgulo Expo 
70 , (Colour) ( Japanese) 
(16 mm .) Japan . 


11 - 2 - 74 

U 
67423 


M / 8369 & 


457 . 2002 ) Uryası Film Society , Shriķ . Anjyan, Trivan 
Trivandrum , 

drum 


70 


"Mahukal vi Kumiran 
Agan (Malayalam & 
English ) (35, mm .) 
(B . & W .) (India ). 


11- 2 - 74 


M /8407 


67424 


Zoroin On Safety 

(English ) (Colour ) 
(16 mm .) ( U . S . A .) . 


109 . 72 (1 ) Madras Fertilizers Ltd ., National Safety Coun - 
Madras . 

cil, Chicago, U .S . A . 


11- 2 -74 

U 
67425 


M /8418 


The Elegant Idler 

(English ) ( 16 mm .) 
( B . & W .) (India ). 


194 . 76 (1) Malaysian High Com - Filum Negara, Malaysia . 

mission , Madras , 


11- 2 - 74 


M /8378 


Sapamoksham (Malay - 3872 -67 (15) Anaswara Prodas., Anaswara 
alam ) (35 mm .) (B . 

Madras . 

Madras . 
& W .) (India ) . 

Endorsement on Cert. No. 67426- U . dt. 11th Feb , 74 issued to film 
35 mm . B . & W . 
Length applied : 3937 -39 m . 
Cuts 


Prodny., 67426 

With cuts . 
11 - 2 - 74 
Sapamoksham (Malayalam ) 


Metres 


5638 


1 . Reel 3. - Delete the scene of Surendran and Baby In tho hotel -koeping only flashes 

of Baby s talking over the phone . 
2 . Reel 3 – Delete suggestive sound effects from thebathroom : 
3 . Reel4 Delete tho action of hotel attendant a 
4 . Reel4 Delete the shot of leg of a man on the front seat occupied by a woman 

in bus 


ting 


3 . 34 


Total 


59 . 72 


Actual length will be : 3872 .67 Motres in 15 Reels. 


M /8334 


106 .68(1) Ravi International, Ravi International, 
Madras . 

Madras , 


67427 


Trailer of Do Haath 
Sao 

Bunduken 
(Hindi) (35 mm .) 
(B . & W .) (India ). 


11- 2 - 74 


- - 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) (PART III — SEC. 4 


- 


= 


-- = 


DIV - - - 


- SVG - - tattat 


zi 


2 


67428 


M /8416 


M /8409 


Do Haath Sao Ban - 3869 - 44 (17) Ravi (oternatinal Madras 
dukon (Hindi) (Scope ) 
(Partly coloured ) 

11 - 2 - 74 
(35 mm .) ( India ). 

U 
Kadavul Mama 3887 - 72 ( 15 ) Padmini Pictures , Padmini Pictures , 

67429 
( Tamll ) (35 mm .) 

Bangalore . Bangalore , 

With cuts. 
( B . & W .) (India ). 

11 - 2-74 
Endorsement on Cort : No. 67429 - U , dt, 11- 2 -74 issued to film ‘Kadavul Mama (Tainil) 35 mm . B . & W . 

Length applied : 3937 - 70 m . 
Cuts 

Metros 
1 . Reel 1 – Delete Manickam s action of pulling sariof Karpagam . His pushing her 
down on cot 

2 . 13 
2. Reel + Delete all close-shots of fight in whích the man in the guise of a Red Indian 
participates . . 

. . . 2 -74 
3. Reel 7 – Reduce fight to tho point when tho photograph is re- snatched from Kandhan 8 .83 
4 . Real 7 - Delete all shots of the action of whipping . . 

9 . 75 
5 . Roel 7 -- Reduce fight in te nurging home to a flash . 

12 - 49 
6 . Reel 1 - Delete the fight between Karunakaran and Kannamma 

14 . 04 
Total 49 . 98 


Actual length will bo : 3887 . 72 m . In 15 reels . 


M / 8413 


2 .89 


Gali Patalu ( Tolugu ) 426765 (15) Anil Arts , Madras. Anil Arts ,Madras. 67430 
(35 mm .) (B . & W .) 

- With cuts. 
(India ). 

12- 2 -74 
Endorsement on Cert, No. 67430 - 0 , dt. 12 - 2 -74 issuod to the film Gali Patalu ( Telugu ) 35 mm . B . & W . 

Longth applied : 4308 .88 m . 
Cuts 

Metres 
1 . Reel 4 - Delete shots of Susila undressing in bathroom as Kumayya is looking 

through keyholo 
2 . Reel 4 - Delete the soquence of Papdu with towel on his back towards camera and 
Rangamma closing her eyes looking at him from opposite direction 

6 .09 
3 . Reel 6 - Delete the prisoners punching Satyam on his stomach in jail as they are 
beating him . . . . . 

2 . 13 

. 
4 . Reel 6 - Delete shots ofGanganna removing glass piece from the solo of his shoe 

and a hexa blade from the other shoo and also later on delete his cutting the 
iron bar of the window standing on tho back of Satyam , to escape from jail 
shown in detail . ( The ond portion of the shot whero Ganganna is near the 
window may be retained for continuity of the story ) . . . 

10 .81 
5 . Reel 6 - Delete Ganganna s dialogue to Şatyam " Tappu Kadoo - Etho okati 

rendu rojullundali . As tarvata maryadaga velli poyall" before escaping 
from jail . . . 

2 . 28 
6 . Reel 7 –- Delete the following from the picturisation of dance on the song beginning 

with tho words “ Hoy , Hey, Hey " : 
( a ) The dancer rubblog her posterior to Satyam s posterior on the words 

" Ila , lla " 
(b ) The dancer giving indecorous beats to tho posterior of Satyam by her 

posterior when both are standing back to back on BGM . . ) 6 .69 
7 . Reel 8 - Delete the soquence of the mob stoning the idol of Hanuman and disfiguring 

his face when Satyam is hiding behind the idol. (No objection to viows 
of stonos falling in other places ) , , 

7 : 30 
8 . Reel 9.-- Delete the clogo - shots of the dancer shaking her breasts vigorously in the 
dance on BGM . (No objection to longs shots ) . . 

3 -04 
9 . Reel 2 - Fron thetext of the song beginning with the words “ Tandu na Nandana " 

delete the following lines : (1) Okkaru pykokkostaru ; (2) Vachina pani poor 
tiavagane; ( 3) Chachinattu padi yuntaru . (Sound only _ replaced approved 

words) . . . . . . . . . . . 
10 . Reel 7– From the song text ofsong beginning with " Hoy , Hey " , delete the follow 

ing Loos - 
( 1 ) Na jilugu pyta tanunna cheta ika niluva lenandira ; ( 2) Jata ga kalisi 

jagame marachi swargalu choodalira ," (Sound only - Icplaced 
approved words ) . . . . . . . . 

Total 41 23 


Actual length of film will be : 4267 .65 m . in 15 reels . 


PART III - SEC , 47THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2161 


1 


3 


U 


M /8344 


3856 -32( 18 ) Mukesh 

Madras , 


Hare Krishna (Hindi) 

(Partly coloured ) (35 
mm . ) (India ). 


Enterprises , Mukesh 

Madras. 


Enterprises , 


67431 


12 - 2 -74 


M /8452 


305 . 00 ( 1) 


67432 


Tamilnadu Govern 
mont Regional News 
Bullotin 110 ( Tamil) 
( 35 mm .) (B . & W .) 
(India ). 


Tho Directorate of the Directorate of 
Information & Public Information & Public 
Relations, Mudras . Relations. Madras. 


13 - 2 - 74 


M /8454 


80 - 76 ( 1) Murasoli Maran , 

Madras . 


Vetri Kuvippom 
( Tamil ) (35 mm .) 
(B . & W .) (India ). 


Murasoli 

Madras . 


Maran , 


U 
67433 


13 - 2 - 74 


U 


M /8443 "Samayalkaran ( Tamil) 3927 -64 (14 ) Marina Movica , Madras. Marina Movies, Madras 67434 

( 35 mm . ) ( B . & W .) 
(India ). 

14 - 2 - 74 

U 
M /8440 Jeevikkan Maran - 3644 -88 ( 14 ) Chitrakala kendram , Shri K , S , R . Moorthy , 67435 
nupoya Stroo (Mala 

Madras. 

Madras . 
yaſam ) ( Colour) (35 

15-2 -74 
inm .) ( India ). 
M /8441 " Sati Anusuya (Hindi) 3987 . 70 ( 16 ) Venkatapathy Pictures , Shri S . V . Rajagopal, 67436 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 

Madras . 

Madras . 
( India ). 

15 - 2 - 74 
Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certification by the Central Board of of Film Censors during the week Ending 23rd Friday, 1974 . 

BOMBAY 

U 
B /71325 " Sandhana -- Dawda 430 . 00 ( 4 ) Space Applications Space Applications 74379 P . E . 
A Quiz Programme 

Centre 

Centre 
(Gujarati ) (16 mm .) 

18 - 2 - 74 

U 
B /71269 " Chhittar Ya Bajra 546 . 17 (2 ) S. N . Bhagwat, Anand Chitravani. 74380 P , E , 
(Hindi) ( 35 mm .) 

18 - 2 - 74 

U 
B /71330 

" Geformle Zukunpt - 158 .00( 1) Consulate General of Redaktion Sgeneins- 74381 P. E . 
50 Jahro Baubaus" 

the Federal Republic chaft , 
( English ) (16 mm .) of Germany, Bom 

19 - 2- 74 
(FRO . ) bay - 20 . 

U 
B / 71323 " Gustaf Grundgens" 216 . 00 ( 1) Do. 

Universum Film A . G 74382 P . E . 
(Eng .) (Col. ) ( 16mm .) 
(FRG .) 

19 - 2 - 74 

U 
B / 71264 " Vapour Action " ( Eng . ) 30 .48 (1 ) M /s. Filna - 5 , Jyoti M9. Film -5 , Jyoti 74383 
( 35 mm ). 

Studio , Kennedy Studio , Konnedy 
Bridgo, Bombay -7, Bridge, Bombay - 7. 19- 2 -74 


18 -2-74 


B /71350 


" Orange Revolution " 

( Eng .) ( Col.) (35 mm .) 


29 .87 (1) M /s . Trio Films, Jyoti 

Studio , Konnedy 
Bridge , Bombay -7 . 


34384 


M /s. Trio Films, Jyoti 

Studio , Kennedy — 
Bridge, Bombay- 7 . 


19 - 2 -74 


U 


B /71349 


" Orange Explosion " 

(Eng.) ( Col.) (35 mm .) 


29 -87 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


74385 


19 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71259 


74386 


" First in Class First 

In Sports " (English ) 
(Col.) (35 mm .) 


30 - 48 ( 1 ) Film Media , 47 - Laxmi Mr, Jyoti G . Thakur, 

Insurance Building , Film Mcdia . 
Sir P . M . Rd, Bom 
bay - 1 , 


19 -2 - 74 


B /71262 


30 - 48 (1) 


Do . 


U 
74387 


" Nourishing Bourn 

vita " (Hindi) (Col. ) 
( 35 mm .) 


19 - 2 -74 


U 


B /71151 


" Little Angelo " (Mar. ) 

(Col.) (35 mm .) 


30 -48 (1 ) 


Do . 


74388 


19 - 2 - 74 


B /71260 


30 -48(1) 


74389 


" Shakti Se Bharpoor 
Bournvita " (Marathi) 
(Col.) (35 mm . ) 


19 - 2 - 74 


2162 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [ PART III — SEC - 4 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


B /71261 


IT 
74390 


30 . 48 ( 1 ) 


" Delicious Bournvita " 

(Gujarati ) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) 


Film Medin , 47Laxni) Mr. Jyoti G . Thakur. 
Insurance Buildg., Sir Film Media , 
P . M . Rd ., Bombay- 1 


19 - 2 - 74 

U 
74391 


B /71149 


" Pyule Munna " (Guj) 

(Col ) ( 35 mm .) 


30 .48( 1) 


Do. 


Do. 


19 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71147 


30 .48( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


74392 


" Doctor s Advice " 

(Gujarati) ( Colour ) 
(35 mm .) 


19 - 2 -74 


| Մ 


B /71324 


" Tr, of Thokar" (Hin .) 

(Col. ) ( 35 mm .) 


98 -45 (1) 


74393 


Movie Templo , 3rd Swarn Singh , 
floor, Famous Cino 
Bldg . , Bombay - 11. 


20 - 2 -74 


U 


B /71360 


208 .00 ( 1) 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1323" (Northern 
Edition ) ( 35 mm .) 


Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Bom . 

of India , 24 - Peddar bay - 26 . 
Rd ., Bombay -26 . 


74394 ( Valid for English , 

- - Hindi, Kashmiri, 
20 - 2- 74 Punjabi & Urdu 

versions ). 


B /71359 


294 00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


" Indian News Review 

No . 1323 " ( 35 mm ) 


74395 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
20 - 2 - 74 Gujarati, Tamil, 

Telugu , Kannada 
Malayalam , Assa 
mese , Orlya & 
Bengali versions) . 


B /71352 - 3 


“ Muharashtra News 

No . 259" (Hindi & 
Mar. ) (35 mm ) 


300 .00 (1 ) Dir. Gen , of Informa- Dir. Gen , of Informa 74396 

tion & Public Rela tion & Public Rela - - 
tion , Govt . of Maha tlon , 

20 - 2 - 74 
rashtra , 

U 
30 - 48 ( 1) General Communi. General Communi- 74397 

cations, Kshama cations, Bombay - 20 , - - 
Bhawan , 37-New 

20 - 2 -74 
Marine Lines , 
Bombay- 20 . 


B / 71230 


" The Wonder World 

of Sea " ( Colour ) 
(35 mm .) 


(Valid for English , 

Hindi, Gujarati, 
Marathi, Tamil , 
Kannada , Telugu 
Bengali versions) . 


B / 71354 


" Nai Roshani" (Hindi 

( 35 mm ). 


299 .89 (1) 


74398 


P. E , 


S . G . Khirwadkar , H . P. Tiwari, Dir ., Inf. 
Asstt. Di . , M . P . Gov - Pub ., Madhya Pra - - 
Vorament . 

desh Govt., Bhopal. 


20 - 2 - 74 


U 


B / 71310 


Radio Bremen . 


74399 


P . E , 


" Bremen Portrait of 

a city State" ( Eng .) 
( 16 mm . ) ( FRG . ) 


287 -00 (1) Consulate Gen, of the 

Federal Ropublic of 
Germany , Bombay - 20 . 


20 - 2 - 74 


U 


B / 71334 


20800 ( 1 ) 


208.60) 


Do. 


Do 
. 


B71994 " 


74400 


" Horr Kokule Ich Kon 

ne Sim Nicht " (Eng.) 
( 16 mm .) (FRG .) 


P , E . 


Gessel Schaft Fur Bil- 

dende Film , 


20 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71332 


159 - 00 ( 1 ) Consulate General of 

F . R . G . 


Herbort Apolt , 


74401 


" Portrait Of A Land 

scope " (Eng.) (Col.) 
(16 mm . ) 


P . E . 


21 - 2 - 74 


B /71333 


115 . 00 ( 1) 


Do . 


U 
74402 


Walter Leckvebusch 
Munchan , 


“ At Tho Turn Of The 

Age " ( Col.) ( Eng. ) 
( 16 mm .) 


P . E . 


21- 2 - 74 


U 


B / 71343 


" Pyaso Dil " (Hindi) 

(Col.) (35 mm ) 


74403 


3277 - 51 (13) Amritlal Khanna , 109 , 

Guru Hotel, Khar, 
Bombay - 52 . 


AmritlalKhanna , Now 
Ashok International 
Bombay - 52 . 


21- 2 -74 


B /70703 


74404 


" Tr. of Kora Anchal" 

(Hindl) (Colour) 
( 35 mm ) 


91 - 44 ( 1) S . Kamruddin , Pawan Moxico Films, Aircon 

Amar Dcep , Co - opo - ditioned Markot. 
rative Housing Socie 
ty S ntacruz , Bom 
bay - 54 . 


21- 2 - 74 


B /71322 


" Gerhart Hauptmann " 

( English ) ( 16 min .) 
( FRG . ) 


315 . 00 (1) Consulato General of Debona Films. 

F . R . G . 


U 
74405 
21- 2 -74 


P . E . 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


PART III — Sec . 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEM521 1 3 , 1973 ( AIGRALYANA 22, 1897) 2163 
- - — - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 

- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - = - - = - = 
3 4567 


- - 


- 


2 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


B /71338 


109 .00( 1 ) 


U 
74406 


Contato Cancral Walter Knoop . 

F . R . G . 


" Meister Werden " (No 

( Commentary) ( 16 
mm .) (FRG .) 


P . E , 


21- 2 - 74 


B /71339 


284 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Studio Hambulil . 


74407 


P . E . 


" The Farmer - Between 

Yesterday and To 
morrow (English ) 
(16 mm . ) (FRG .) 


21- 2 - 74 


B / 71319 


7 


1 


303 . 00 (1) 


U 
74408 


Do. 


Do. 


Martin Schlesslçı, 

Baden Badu , 


" Childs Play On Ski" 

( English ) (Colour ) 
(16 mm .) (FRG . 


P . E . 


21- 2 - 74 


B /71320 


P E . 


B / 71204 


With triangle mark . 


" Gregor Mendel 163 .00 ( 1) 

Do . Rudolf Stolting 

74409 
Father of Modern 
Genetics " (English ) 

21- 2 - 74 
(Colour ) ( 16 mm .) 
( FRG .) 

U 
" Dukh Sukh " (Hindi) 3431 44 (14 ) No usheon Alms, Clo Mr. Je weed Qudri, 

74410 
( Prt . Col. ) (35 mm . ) 

Johnson Llectricals , 
39 /41 , Bombay - 3 . 

22- 2 - 74 
Endorseinent: 

Original longth . - 3431 44 Metres. 
Delete the shot of Sukhlal kissing a girl during the Picturisation of the song . - - 4 -57 m . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 4 : 57 m . ) 
Only Reel No. 7 is in colour ) 
Longth of deletions : 4 .57 m .) 
Length of replacement : 4 . 57 in .) 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be.: 3431 .44 m . 


U 


B /71361 


“ Tax ? (Eng.) (35 mm .) 


74411 


P . E . 


450 .00 (2 ) Filins Division , Govt , Film Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Poinbay - 26 . 


22 - 2 - 74 


B /62457 


“ Mehman " (Hindi) (Colour ) 3688 . 25 Shtruji P931, Shatijit Shatrujit Parl, Shatrujit U -74412 With triangle mark . 
(35 mm .) 

( 15) Films, 5 - Anand 

Films, 5 - Anand Kuni 
Kunj Linking Rrad , Linking Road , Santa 23 - 2 - 74 
Santacruz, Bombay - cruz , Bombay -54 . 


54 . 


Endorsement : 

Original Length . -- 3845 -17 M . 
No. Cut No. Reel 

III. ( ) From the picturisati 1 of thọ song " Hany of ye Jawani. . . " delete shots of the hero Rejesh 

hit: 10 . ; n the wall, of Shçcla and fondling her . — 0 . 91 m . (Replaced with approved shot.:- 0 .91 
(ii) Delete jerkingmovements ofthe brain by Sheela on the words " Hai, oof yeh Jawani _ 0 - 70 m 

(Ropilaced with app . ,ved shits :40 .70 m .) 
( iii) Delete Rajesh i ndling Shocla at the hips. : - 0 .91 m . 

(Replaced withı < ppi ved shuts . — 0 . 91 m .) 
( iv ) Delete Rajesh holding Shcolul very closely and lifting her. - 3 . 90 m . 

(Replaced with approved shot .: — 3 . 90 m .) 
(v ) Delete cheek to chcek pressing between Rajesh and Shecla . - 1 : 30 m . 

(Replaced with approved shots . :- - 1 30 m .) 
2 . IV . Delete the following shots : 

(a ) Shots of the dancer when she is lying down and in which her thigh and hip are prominently 

exposed on the wording " Nar matmar mat yaera . . . . . . " to " Kil shayad kisne dekha humpaa 
ho " - 5 . 04 m . 

(Replaced with approved shots . :- 5 .04 m .) 
(b ) Shot ofdancor s revo ling thigh while standing with the slave on the wording " Yoaish do gharika " 

1 :52 in . (Replacrel with . pproved shots. — 1 . 52 m .) 
(c ) Shots of the d lilopprexposed thigh while singing " Ehesan khud pekar le " till she resuincs turning 

turning action . — 4 - 20 m . (Repl..ced with approved shots .- -4 . 20 m .) 
3. V . Reduced the scene of Re jesh and Shocla pressing cheeks on each others whie making ove on the 

chairs . - 5 . 39 m . 

(Length retained . — 23 -87 m .) 
VII. (a ) Delete the undulined words from the dialogue said hy inasseur: " Din men waiter ka kaam karta 

hoon raat ko maalish kata hron " (Replaced with approved words) 
(b ) Delete the following words spoken by Railway guerd : 

( i) Chaleti gaadi par mit chadhiya (Replaced with approved words ) 

(ii) Ek hipatripar de gadiyan nalin ho sakti " (Replaced with approved words ) 
5 X Delete the suggestive kiss between Rajith and Shcola in his room in the hotel. - 1 . 92 m . 


- - 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


4 – 3696I/75 


2164 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [ PART III - SEC , 4 


- 


- - - 


PAYS 


6 


7 


Cut No. Ree No. 

XI. Reduce the rape scene by deleting the portion where Sinha s chin touches the bogom of the dumb 

girl and delete the rape sceno of the dumb girl by Sinhn in the clogo proximity of idols of Lord 
Krishna , Jesus Christand holy Quraan and also delete the last close - ups of their faces establish 
ing copulation . (There would be no objection to rotain the shots for the sake of continuity 
avoiding the idols and Quraan).- 25 .60 m . 

( Length retained . - 38 .09 m .) 
7 . XIV & XV . Reduce the fight between Rajesh and Sinha in the horses encic sure and Rajesh ond Anwar in the 

collar and reduce prominent vicws of Sinha s blood smeared face . 
Reduce the fight sequence taking out some of the most gruesome shots and reduce tho whipping 
of Sinha by Rajesh in the horses enclosure. 

- - 9 - 42 m . 
( Length rotained .6 : 5 .80 m .) 
(Doleted voluntarily , : 114 .59 m . ) 
Length of delotions. : 60 .81 m . 
Length of voluntary deletions. : 114 .59 m . 
Longth of approved replacement. : 18 .48 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be. : 3688 - 25 m . in 15 reels. 

U 
“ Sonntag Morgen In 140 .00 ( 1) Consulate Gen , of Atlos Films (Hamburg ). 74413 Not P . E . 
St. Pauli" (No Com 

F . R . G . 
montary ) (16 mp . ) 

23 - 2 - 74 
(FRG .) 


B /71336 


U 


B / 71335 


140 .00 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


Deuteche Conday Fim 
Gmbh . 


" Tho Poisoned Atmo- 
sphoro " (English ) 
(Colour) (16 mm ) 
( FRG .) 


74414 

- - - 
23- 2 - 74 


P . E . 


U 


B /71337 


179 . 00 (1 ) 


Do . 


Insel Film 

Zauner . 


Gecrg 


" Munchen -Messe- Und - 
Ausstellungostadt." 
(English ) ( Colour ) 
(16 mm .) ( FRG . ) 


- 


74415 

- - 
23 - 2 - 74 


P . E . 


172 00 (1) 


B /71320 


Rudolf Stolting 


U 
74416 


Rudolf Stolting . 


Do . 


“ The Discovery of 
Radio Activity " 
(English ) ( Colour) 
(16 mm .) (FRG . ) 


329.79 P.E. 


- PE , 


23 - 2 - 74 


B /71321 


166 .00 (1) 


Do . 


“ Durerstadt Und Sta - 
htbet on " (English ) 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 


Redaktionsgenein 

Schft . 


U 
74417 

.. . 
23 - 2 - 74 


Not P . E . 


Α 


B /70633 


Sikkay" 


" Khoto 

3787 13 ( 15 ) Mewas Films, 7 / 1 Air M , D . Kothari, 7 / 1 3216 With trianglo mark , 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

Conditioned Markot, Air Conditioned - - 
( 35 mm . ) 

Tardeo , Bombay -34 . Market, Tardeo , Bom 20 - 2 - 74 

bay - 34 , 
Endorsement: 

Original length : 3839 . 11 m . 
Cat Reel 
No . No . 
1. I 

Reduce the viow of killing of the moneylendor by Janga , (with a view to minimising the clement of 

cruelty - 1 . 22 m . (Length retajocd : 1 . 22 m .) 
2 . Il ( a ) Reduce the passionate gestures of Komal and Baggu during their love-making sccnc, on the cot. 
4 -57 m . 

(Length rotainod : 9 .91m .) 
(b ) Delete the suggestive dialoguo " To gaon men dakutumhara ," as spoken by the truck driver . - 3 . 35 m . 
3 . III During tho fight , reduce hittings on the belly , striking with elastic ball and close views of fighting with 

fork . - 4 . 73 m . (Length rotained : 0 .91 m .) 
4 . IV 

After the mujra danco, reduce tho hittings of a man with gun butt . - 1 - 22 m . (Deloted complotely ). 
(a ) In Janga s don reduce the view of daggor being thrown by Janga , deleting tho close view of dagger 

on tho back of the villager. - 1 .83 m . (Length retained : 0 .40 m .) 

(b ) Reduce the cruel impact wlion Janga kills the judge . — 2 - 44 m . (Length retained : 0 . 26 m .) 
6 . V 

Delete the following suggostive dialoguo spoken by a fomale dancer : 

" Agar hathiar istemel nahin kiye Jayen to voh bekar ho jaate hain ," – 3 :05 m . 
7. VIII From the sequence in which Jangå rescuos Dilwar from the Police -yan , delete the close rango shooting 

of tho policomon by Janga s men . - 1 . 52 m . 
Reduce tho vlow of tho girl with baro back lying with Baggu on the cot, by deleting tho beginning 

portion of the shot where Baggu s legs are on tho girl s legs.-- 1 83 m . (Length retained : 14 .02 m .) 
9. XIII ( a ) Reduce to only three whips, tho whipping of Rani by Janga on the cot . – 3 -66 m . (Longth totalned ; 

2 .441 .) 
(b ) Reduce the impact of cruel striking with knife by Janga on the body of Ramu and looking at the 

blood smoarod koife5 .49m . (Longth retained : 1 :37 m .) 


5 . 


V 


8 . XI 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- - - - - - 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


PART III — SEC . 4JTHE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2165 


3 


6 


10 . 


Cut 

Reel XIV 
No . 

No, & XV . 

During tlic fights , reduce the general impact of cruelty and violence , by deleting gruesome shots 
showingwounds with blood and close viows of weapons used in the fight - 17 . 07 m .( Loogth rotained 
in Reel XIV : 109 . 12 m . ) 
(Longth rotained in Roel XV : 84 . 12 m .) 
Length of doletions : 51 .98 m . 

Acrual length of the film after the aforeşald deletions will be : 3787 . 13m , in 15 reels . 
B /71327 -30 
Film " Sweet Dron : Como Truo ( English ) ( Colour) (35 mm .) 
U - Cert. N ? , 730 $ 4 of 18 - 8 - 1973 , 

This cortidiguteis als ) yall for Tanil,Kuandı, M 11 iyalain and Telugu vorsions ofthe film in colour. Tho length 

of the film ramning u1111ged . This artilizato was endorsed on 18th Fobruary , 1974 . 
B /69990 
Film : " Story of Chocolate (Col.) (English ) 
U - Cort . No. 73211 of 25-8 -1973. 

Daleted various shots : 21 : 36 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 274 .50 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 18th February , 1974 , 
B / 70647 
Film : " Madhosh (Hindi) (Colour) 
U - Cert. No, 74291 of 30 - 1 - 1974 . 

Reel VN : Deleted various shots : 33 .22 in . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3627 -66 m . 

This certificato was ondorsed on 20th February , 1974 , 
B /71357 -58 
Film : " Subha Ka Bhula ” (Hindi) 
U - Cert . No. 74363 of 14 -2 - 1974 , 

Tnis certificate is also valid for Gujarati and Tamil versions of the film . The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This cortificate was ondorsed on 20th Febiuary , 1974 . 
B /71078 
Film : " Ek Gaon Ki Kahan " ( Englisli ) 
U - Cert, No. 74171 of 7 - 1- 1974 . 

This certificato is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour. Too longth of the film remajos unchanged . 

This cortificate was ondorsed on 22nd February , 1974 . 
B /69900 
Film : "Gupt Gyan ” (Hindi) ( Colour ) 
U - Cort . No. 3205 of 19 - 12 -1973 , 

Reel No. 1 : Deleted various slots ; 54 . 87 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesald deletions will be : 3699 . 12 m . 

This Certificate was endorsed on 22nd February, 1974 . 
B /70686 
Fum : " These are the Days " (Hindi) 
U -Cert . No. 74225 of 16 -1- 1974 . 
Corrections : 

The name of the producer may bo road as " Pro , S , K . Luthr " instead of “ Karoer Films & T , V , Institute " , 

This cortificato was endorsed on 22nd Fobruary , 1974 . 
B /71355 -6 
Film : " Twice As Good " (English )(Colour) 
U -Cert . No . 74312 of 4 -2 -1974 

This certificato is also valid for Tamil and Malayalam versions of the film in colour. The length of the Alm 
remains unchanged , 

This cortificato was endorsed on 23rd Februdry , 1974 . 
B / 71402 
Film : " The Mooace " (English )( Colour) 
U -Cort , No . 74362 of 14 - 2 - 1974 . 

This cortificate is also valid for Hindi vorsion of the film in colour . The length of the film remains unchanged , 

This cortificato was endorsed on 23rd Fobruary , 1974 . 
R /71397- 401 
Film : " World Ronowned " ( Englislı )(Colour) 
U - Cert. No. 72692 of 6 -6 -1973. 

This certificato is also valid for Hindi, Tamil, Telugu , Bengali and Malayalam versions of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remains unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 23rd February , 1974 , 

Particulars of Filnis granted or Refused certificates by the Central Board of Film 
Censors during the week ending 23rd February, 1974 
CALCUTTA 

U 
A La Conquote Des 175 .00 (1 ) Centro Culturel Fran - N . Skrotsky . 

73376 P . E . 
Fonds Maritis 

cais , Calcutta . 
( English ) (16mm .) 

21 - 2 - 74 
Franco 


C /7970 


- - - 


- 


- 


2166 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) (PART III — SIC . 4 


tieto 


- 


- 


- v 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


5 


6 


7 


C / 7971 


175 . 00 ( 1) 


Central Cultural 
Fianc iis , Calcutta 


Pierre Tallaud , 


U 
73377 


Roalito Concorde 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(16 mm .) France 


P . E . 


21- 2 - 74 


C /7972 


150 .00 ( 1 ) 


-Do 


N . Shrotsky . 


73378 P . E . 


Accidents Sur Com - 
mando (English ) 
( 16 mm .) France , 


21 - 2 - 74 

U 
73379 


C /7973 


150 .00 ( 1) 


-Do 


P . E . 


Concorde Transal- 
lantique (English ) 
( Col.) ( 16 mm . ) France 


21- 2 - 74 


C /7976 


Jadi Santom ( Bongali) 
(35 min .) India . 


4470 -81( 15 ) 


Cotrajlg 47, Lolin 

Saraut, Calcutta - 13 , 


Chitrajug. 


73380 


23 - 2 - 74 


Particulars of ſilmas certified during week ending 

saturday 23- 2 - 74 
MADRAS 


M / 8442 


" Trallor of Bahadur 
Ladklyqo " (Hiadi) 
( 35 mm .) (B & W ) India 


91 - 44 ( 1 ) Kapadi Enterpris , Kapadia Enterprisos, 
Madr s , 

Madras. 


67437 


18 - 2- 74 


M /8448 & 

8449 


30 -48 ( 1 ) Nagaraj, S & S P . ) - Nagaraj, S & S Pro - 

ducho as , B 1113 113r ductions, Bangaloro . - - 


67438 


" 46 hours Grand 
Sila " (English & 
Kannada ) (Colour ) 
( 35 mm .) India . 


18 -2 -74 


U 


M /8910 


118 -87 (1) Mulaya 11,7 High Filom Negara Mala 

Cowani3ijn , Midi 19. ysia , Malaysia . 


67439 


" Tun Razık Tunggak 
Kerajaan Baa lill 
(English ) (16 mm . ) ( B & 
W ) Malaysia , 


18 - 2 - 74 


U 


M /8453 


“ Nanoo Balabcku 3953 - 71 (15 ) Gypi Productions, Gupi Productions, 67440 With cuts . 
(Kannada ) ( 35 mm .) 

Bugatore. 

Bungalore . 
( B & W ) India 

19 - 2 -74 
Endorsoment on Cert. N .) . 67440 -U , dt. 19 - 2-74 1- 41cd to âlin Nanoo Balabeku (Kannada ) 35 mm . B & W . 
Length applied ; 3986 - 00 Mts. 
Cuts -- 

Metres 
1. Reel 4 . - Delere branding the child . . . . . . . 1 - 52 
2 . Reel 8 - Reduce fizrt, deleting action of sm ishing hond of Ramnoth against the rock 2 .43 
3 . Reel 12 – Delete the shut of cabaret da zor lying on table (Replaced orchestra : 1 . 06 ) 1.06 
4 . Reel 13 –- Delete shots of Bulu and the girl on but including hur dialogue ( retain 

ing only last shot when Lilly e out of the room threatening Balu ) . 28 . 34 


Total 


33 - 35 


Total replacement : 1 . 06 Mts. 
Actual length is 3953 - 71 Mts , in 15 Reels . 


U 


M /8228 


Sisupalan ( Tamil ) 
(35 mm .) ( B & W ) India 


3998 - 97 (15) Sro , Viry ? Cine Arts , Sre : Vijaya Cino Arts , 
Madras 

Mzdras , 


67441 


19 - 2 - 74 


M / 8451 


“ Tiger Thathachari 3980 - 68 (14) Santhur Filins, Midrs. Senthur l ilms, Madras, 67442 With cuts . 
( Tanul) (35 mm .) (B & W ) 
India . 

20 -2 -74 
Endorsement ou Cori. Nu. 67442 - U , dt. 20 - 3- 74 issued to the fila : Tigor Thathachari ( Tamil) (35 mm .) ( B & W ) 
Length applied . 3980 68 Motres, 
Cu 

Metre 
Reel 10 — Song 4 - Delete the words Yaarum , Keanadı , " Virundhuttava ” , 

( Sound only - Topluced approved words .) 


Total 


nil 


Actual length of the filin remains the same namely 3980 . 68 Metres in 14 , eels . 


- - 


- 


- 


PART JII — Sec. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2167 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


1 


2 


5 


M / 8437 


U 
Chandrik uitiam 4218 .43 ( 16 ) Raja Silpi , Madras. Raja Siiri, Madras. 67443 with cuts . 
(Malayalam ) ( Partly 
coloured ) (35 m .) 

21 - 2 - 74 
India 
Endorsement on Cort . No. 67443-U , dt. 21- 2- 74 issued to the film Chandrakantham (Malayalam ) (Partly colour ). 
Length applied : 4218 . 43 Mts , 
Cuts 

Metres 
Reel 6 – When Vinayan a id his wife aro on bed , delere his sontence to her " Amminji Venom ." 
( Sound only romoved - silent shot retained ). 

Total 


Actual longth of this filin 9 4218 43 m in 16 cels. 
The colour portion in Roel Nos , 1, 3, 4 & 9 is 121 - 92 m . and the balance 4096 -51 m , in B & W . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


M / 8464 Pondy Vizhi ( Tamil) 103 66 (1 ) Chitramain Combines, Chitramala Combinos , 67444 
( 35 mm .) (B & W ) India 

Madras . Madras 

21 - 2 - 74 

U 
M /8450 Boothayy 117 Muga 1266 . 60 ( 15 ) Juin Combines , Man - Jain Combines , Man 67445 
Ayyu (Kannada ) 

galore . 

galoro . 
( Colour) (35 min .) India 

21- 2- 74 

U 
M /8456 “ Virata Parva (Kroch - 4455 - 26 ( 18 ) Vinoda Picturos , Han - Vinoda Picturos , ben 67446 
ka Vaing (Kanala ) 

calore , 

galoro 
( 35 min .) ( B & W .) India 

21- 2- 74 
Particulars of filmscertific or refused certification by the Central Board of Film Censor s during the week ending 2nd March , 1974 

BOMBAY 

U 
B170461 " Jurm Aur S .17a !" 3810 49( 15 ) N . A . Ansari, Kochar N . A , Ansati , Kociar 74418 Witli trianglo mark , 
(Pavis ) (Ilinci) 

House , 3rd Road , House , 3rd Roud , 
( Colur ) ( 35 171m .) 

Khar, Bombay-52. Khar, Bombay-52, 25- 2 -74 
Endorsen.cult : 

Original length : 3857 .61m . 
Cut Reel 
No, No . 
1 1. Delete thy roluronço in dialoguo tu " Dushman dosh " as it may be misunderstood to moan our 

noiglıbouring country with whom we are trying to build up friendly reluricns . ( Deleted sound only ). 

Delete the dialoguc of Sohan " Ab sardiyon mo hamla nahin h062 " . ( Deleted sound only ). 
3 . U . 

In the mooting of anti -national olunients addrossod by Sohan , delete the shot of a man soen in military 
uniform as also anothor 17.10 in Gandhi cap , - - 2 -89 m 
In 1110 scono of mosscngor from the desert aroa with koifo struck on his back and speaking to Rikki . 

educe the portions where the knifo struck on the back is soon , - - 0 - 36 , (Length rotajned : 0 .61 m .) 
III . Reduce the fight between Rajesh and goondas at thc railway station by deleting hard hitting shots 

1 .58 m . 
IV . 

In Holon s dance delete closc -up shots of midriff with indecorous actions ord tilt up shot of a man 
noving his faco upwards along thc logs of the dancor , - 8 . 88 in . 

Delete the hard hitting shots in tho fighting at the bar, particularly th059 hitting with tho butt. - 6 . 59m . 
8 , V . 

In the scono of Aarif entoring the bedroom of Jamila , his flanancec , delete tho portion of their 

on top of another in the rolling on bod .- - 2 07 m . 
9 . VII, Dzltctic hard htting shots when Rajesh is hiting hiroling.~ _ 4 -34 11... 
10 VIIT. Delete the indecorous movement of bust and midriff in the cabaret dance. - 2 . 68 m . 
11. X Reduce the impact of Rajosh killing tho (wo gangsters , by deleting two of the shots of gangsters falling 

down , ( There is no objection to two lying dead on tho road ) — 0 .83 m . (Longth retained : 113 m .) 
12. XU. In 120 fighting botwecn Rajosh and Sonan , reduce by deleting hard hitting shots . In subsequent 

sequence of Rojesla trying to drown Syhan by prossing him , reduco the sceno , - 4 . 85 m . (Lontgth 

Telililod : 22 . 86 ni.) 
13 . XII. !) iring the song , dolote the suggostion of kissing botween Rajesh and Rizki - 0 -45 m . 
14 . XIV . Recce the impact of threo mon being killed by Rajesh , delcring two of thom falling down.-- 0 - 74 in . 

( Length rotainod : 0 .61 m .) 
15. XV. Reduce the last fight between Rajesh and Sohan by deleting gruosome shots - 10 .86 m . 

(Longth retained : 18 59 n .) 
Length of dolotions : 47 . 12 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3810 - 49 m . in 15 reels. 


U 


B /71431- 2 


74419 


" Maharashtra News 
No . 260 " (Marathi 
& Hindi) (35 min .) 


304 00 ( 1) Director of Publ. The Dır . Gen . of In - 

Govt . of Maharashtra , formation & Pub . — 
L ilm Centro , Bom Relations , Govt . of 
bay - 34 , 

Maharashtra . 
- - - - - - - 


27 - 2 - 74 


- - -- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


2168 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III--- Sec . 4 


izmit 


B /71414 


" IN . R . No. 
(35mm ) 


1324 " 


U 
224 .00 (1 ) Filins Division , Govt . Filmns Division , Govt . 74420 

of India , 24 , Peddar of India , 24 , Poddar -- -- 
Road , Bombay -26 . Road , Bombay -26 . 27 - 2 - 74 


(Valid for English , 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, Tamil, 
Telugu , Kannada, 
Malayalam , Pua 
jabl Kashmiri. 
Urdu & Sindhi 
Vorsion ). 


B / 71415 


299 . 00 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


" I, N . R , No . 1324 " 
(Eastero Edition ) 
(35 mm .) 


74421 (Valid for English , 

- Hindi, Bengali , 
27 -2 - 74 Assami & Orlya 

version ) . 


U 


B /71396 


" Mahitichitra No. 180 " 

(Gujrati ) ( 35 mm .) 


143 26 (1) Director of Information , Director of Joformation , 
Govt . of Gujarat. 

Govt . of Gujarat . 


74422 


B /71288 


" Communicating 
Safety Part I : Turn 
198 tho Light On 
Danger" . ( U . K .) 


P . E , 


27- 2 - 74 

U 
74423 
27- 2 -74 


222 . 50 (1 ) National Educational Nacional Coal Board 

& Information Films Film Unit . 
Ltd , 


B /71366 


165.060) 


163 .07 ( 1 ) 


U 
74424 


De 


P . E . 


" Communicating 
Safoty Part II : Mako 
The Bost use of Your 
solf " ( English ) (Col.) 
( 16 mm . ) (U .K .) 


27- 2 - 74 


B /71365 


210 -31 ( 1) 


74425 


P . E . 


" Communicating 
Safety Part III : Sell 
Safety ( English ) 
( Colour) (16 mm .) (U .K .) 


27 -2 - 74 


B /71292 


177 - 39 (1 ) 


U 
74426 P . E . 


" Introduction to Rat- 
ing " (English ) (16 mm . ) 
( U . K .) 


27 - 2 - 74 


U 


B / 71228 


" Insomnia " (English ) 221 59 ( 1) 

Do . U . S . Navy . 

74427 P . E . 
( 16 mm .) (USA ) 

27 - 2 - 74 
B / 71361 
Film : " I. N . R . No, 1323 " (Northorn Edition ) 
U - Cort. No . 74394 of 20 - 2 - 1974 . 

Corrections: 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be road as 294 .00 m . instead of 208 .00 in , 

This cortificato was ondorsed on 25th Fobruary, 1974 . 
B /71360 
Film : “ J. N .R . No. 1323" 
U -Cert. No . 74395 of 20 - 2- 1974 . 

Corrections : 
Tho length of the film on the face of the certificato may be read as 208 .00 m . instead of 294 . 00 m . 

This certificato was ondorsed on 25th February , 1974. 
B /71183 
Film : " Haryana Samachar Darshan No. 9 " 
U - Cert . No . 74288 of 30 - 1-1974 . 

Corrections: 
The longth of the film on thoface of tho cortificate may be read as 283 - 16 m , instead of 238 . 16 m . 

This cortificato was ondorsed on 25th February , 1974 , 
B /70122 
Film : " Pinjra " (Hindi) (35 mm .) 
U - Cort . No , 73644 of 16 - 10 - 1973. 
Reel No. 1 . Deleted various shots 41 - 15 m . 

2. Deleted various shots 17 .68 m . 
3 . Deleted various shots 26 -52 m . 
4 . Deleted various slots 16 . 76 m . 
5 . Deleted various shots 26 -21 m . 
6 . Deleted various shots 38 - 39 m . 

- - - - - - - - - -- - - 


- - - - - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PART III -- Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2169 


(4 ) 


(5) 


(6 ) 


- 


- 


- 


7 . De eled various shots 9 . 45 m . 
8 . De eled various shots 3 .66 m . 
9 . Deletea various shots 96 .01 m 
12 . Deleted various shots 6 . 09 m . 
13 . Deleted various shots 10 . 36 m , 
14 . Deleted various shots 47 24 m . 

16 . Deleted various slots 38 .41 m . 
Length of delerions : 377. 93 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 4265 -80 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 25th February , 1974 . 
B /71371 -82 
Film : " Help Us to Help You " (Eng .) 
U -Cert . No , 74339 of 11- 2 - 1974 , 

This cortificato is also valid for Marathi, Hindi, Gujarati, Kannada, Tamil, Telugu , Bengali,Malayalam , Assamese , 
Oriya , Punjabi , and Urdu versions of the film . The length of the film remains unchanged , 

This certificate was ondorsed on 26th February , 1974 , 
B /70801 
Film : " Aarop " (Hindi) (Col.) 
U - Cert . No. 74226 of 16 - 1 - 1974 . 
Reel No . III : Added various shots : 52 .43 n . 

XII : Added various shots : 24 . 38 in . 
Length of additions : 76 . 81m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid additions will be : 3838 . 95 m . 
This certificate is valid with or without above altorations. 

This certificato was endorsed on 26th February, 1974 . 
B /62682 
Film : " Samruddhi Nu Sopan " 

(Steps To Prosperity ) (Guj.) 
U - Cort. No. 63170 of 18 -5 - 1871 

Reel No . I : Deleted various shots ; 67 . 06 m . 
The final length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 465 . 73 m . 

This certificate was cndorsed on 27th Fobruary , 1974 , 
B /66359 
Film : “ Bharat " (Hindi) (Col.) 
U - Cert. No. 70153 of 17 -6 - 1972 . 

Deleted various shots : 71 63 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be: 202 .69 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 28th February , 1974 , 
B /70018 
Film : " Garm Hava " (Urdu ) (Colour ) 
U -Cert. No, 73635 of 15 - 10 - 1973 
Reel No . I : Deleted acknowledgement titlos : 1067m . Reel No. XV : Deleted tho words : " Kaji sabab ko milane ke baad 

to main bhi isi natije pe pahuncha hun " . - 1 - 52m . Reel No. 1 : Superimposed prologue reading ag: " Takseem 
hua mulk to dil ho gaye tukde har scono mein toofan vahan bhi tha yahan bhiGeeta ki koi sunna na quraan 
ki sunar hriran sa coman vahan bhi tha yehan bhi har ghar main chita jaltithi lahraate the shole har shahar 
moin shamshan vahan bhi tha yahan bhi." Recl No. XV : Superimposed epilogue rcading ag Jo door de 
toofan ka karto hain nazaara unke liyc toofan yahap bhi hai hahan bhi dhare mein jo mil jaogo bad jaoge 
yah wackt ka ilaan yahan bhi hai yahan bhi." Reel No . XV : Added the following dialogue : 

Hamcin Hindusthan chhodkar bhagia nahi chahiye balkc dusanro se kandhe se kandha mila kar apni 
mango ke liye ladana chhahiyo " ., 13 m , 
Length of deletions : 12 . 19 m . 
Length of additions : 2 .13 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3993 :37 m . in 15 reels. 

This cortificato was endorsed on 1st March , 1974 , 
B / 71443 - 4 
Film : " Soft Touch " (Hindi) (Colour) 
U - Cert. No, 74053 of 11- 12- 1973 

This cartificats is also valid for Kinnid and Gujarati versions of the film in colour. The length of the film 
remains unchanged . 

This certificate was endorsod on Ist March , 1974 . 
B / 71440 - 1 
Film : “ Talo For Tots " (Hindi, Bongali , Tamil & Telugu ) 
U - Cort . No , 74079 of 15 - 12 - 1973 . 

This cortificate is also valid for Marathiand English versions of the film . The length of the film remains unchanged , 
This certificate was endorsed on 1st March , 1974 . 
CALCUTTA 

U 

73381 
Paschim 

Benga 391 -67 ( 1) Narayan Ghosh 95 , Dopt. of Information 
Sarkarer Sangbad 

Baburam Ghosh Road & Public Relations, 
Chitra No . 54 ( Bengali) 

CAl- 40 . 

Writers Buildings . 28 - 2 - 74 
(35 mm )- India . 

Govt. of West Bengal 
Calcutta - 1 . 


VL+ 


C . 7978 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


USCL - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2170 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [ PART III _ Sec . 4 


( 1) 


(3) 


(5 ) 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


U 


C -7979 


Jatra Utshab , 1973 
(Bengali) (35mm ) India 


Dept. of Information 
396 24 ( 1 ) Bijoy Gupta 1- D , Gouri & Public , Relations, 

73382 
bari Lang , Cal- 4 . 

Govt . of West Bengal 

Calcutta - 1, Writers Building, 28 - 2 - 74 
403 . 25 ( 2 ) B . J . Entorprise 10 /1 , 

Do . 

U 
K , M . Naskar Road , 

73383 
Calcutta . 


C - 7977 


Paribahaner Natun 
Diganta (Bengali ) 
(35 mm . ) India . 


28 - 2 -74 


MADRAS 
ALS Productions, 
Madius . 


M - 8461. 


Suprabatham (Mala - 3657 . 00 (14 
yalam ) (35 mm .) (B & W ) 

India 


Sliri A . L . Srinivasan , 

Madras. 


67447 

- 
25 - 2 -74 


With Cuts . 


Endorsedment on cert. No. 67447- U dt. 25th Feb . 74 — issued to film Suprabathan (Malayalam ) 35nım . B & W . 


Length applied . 3663 -69 Metres , 


Mis , 
6 . 69 


Cuts. 
1 . Reel 3 - - Reduce the shot in which the boy tries to pick the ball with his chinfrom that of the girl s 

eliminating the action of rolling tho ball over the bust. 


2 . Reel9 


Delete the front close -shot of cabaret dancer s action on the round divan exposing 
her breasts . (Replaced shot of Anurdhan and his friend 3 .95 ). 


3 . 95 


Total 10 .64 


Total replacement 3 -95 Mts. Actual length will be 3657 . 00 Mts. in 14 Reels . 


U 


M -8459. 


" Manikka Thottil 4237 - 33 ( 15 ). 
( Tamil) (35mm .) ( B & W ) 
India . 


Karpagam Productions, 
Madras. 


Karpagam Produc - 67448 
tions , Madras 

- With cuts . 
25- 2 - 74 


Endorsement on cort . No . 67448 - U dt. 25th Feb . 74 — issued to the film Manikka Thottil ( Tamil) 35mm . B & W . 


Length applied . 4240 .67 Metros. 

Cuts . 
1 . Reel 2 - Delete the dialogue of Manikkam " Unnai Midhikka Oruthar Podadhu , Naalu Per Venam " . 
2 . Reel 9 - Delete the action of two men coming close to the bust of the cabaret dancor in song No. 3 


Mts , 
1 . 52 
1 .82 


Total 3 - 34 


Actual length will be 4237 :33 Metres, in 15 Reels . 


M - 8466 


305 


67449 


Tamilnadu Govt. Re 
gional News Bulletin 
111 ( Tamil) ( 35 m . n . ) 
( B & W .) India . 


The Directorate of In - 
formation & Public 
Relations, Madras . 


The Directorate In 
formation & Public - 
Relations, Madras. 


26 - 2 - 74 


M - 8465 


Films, Sanjeevini 

Madras . 


Films, 


91 .44 ( 1 ) Sanjeevini 

Madras. 


67450 


Trailor of Cundelu 
Thecsina Monagadu 
( Telugu ) ( Colour ) 
(35 mm .) India . 


28 - 2 - 74 


M - 8467 


" Trailer of Lava Kush 
(Hindi) ( Colour) 
( 35 mm .) India . 


83 -50 ( 1) Mcharprakash Movies , Mcharprakash Movies, 
Madraş. 

Madras. 


U 
67451 
28 - 2 -74 


WEEK ENDING ITH MARCH 1974 . 

BOMBAY 


B /71410 - 19 


203 . 00 ( 2 ) 


" Doctors From Kal 
novky" 

(Col.) 
( 16 inm .) (USSR ). 


U . S . S . R . Consulate Ukraina Newsrecl and 
General 42- Nepeansca Documentary Films 
Rd ., Bombay -6 . 

Studio 


74428 P . E . Valid for Tamil 

- Telugu , Malayalam , 
4 - 3 - 74 Bengali, Punjabi , 

Gujarati , Marathi, 
& Hindi versions) . 


B /71407 


" The Year of Mujpur " 
( Eng .) (35 mm . ) 


383 -74 (2 ) G . L . Bhardwaj, Bhar- G . L . Bhardwaj, Bom 

dwaj Films, 341 - Tar - bay - 34 . 
dco , Bombay - 34 . 


74429 

- . - P . E . 
4 - 3 - 74 


U 
74430 


B / 71404 


" Tr, of Sujata " (Hindi) 
( 35 mm .) 


96 .01(1 ) Ellora Films, 4 E . Naaz Bimal Roy Productions, 

Bldg ., Lamington Mohan Studio , An - - - 
Road , Bombay- 4 . dheri, Bombay , 


4 - 3 - 74 


- - - 


- 


- - 


PART III — SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2171 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- -- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- 


2 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


U 


B / 71425 


" Cace More , Than Skin 
Deep " (Hindi) ( Colour ) 
( 35mm ) . 


29 - 26 ( 1 ) Durga Khote Produc - 

tions, Bombay, 


Durga Khote Produc - 

tions , Bombay . 


74431 


B /71424 


29. 26 ( 1) 


U 
74432 


Do . 


" Flower 
(Hindi. ) 
(35 mm .) 


Shower " 
( Colour) 


4 -3 - 73 


U 


B -71423 


" Jadumantar " ( English ) 
(Colour) ( 35 mm . ) 


30 .48 ( 1) 


Do . 


74433 


4 - 3 - 74 


B / 71422 


30 -48 (1 ) 


U 
74434 


Do . 


Do. 


" The Common Factor" 
( Eng .) (Colour ) 
( 35 mm . ) 


4 - 3 - 74 


B /71421 


30 .48 ( 1 ) 


U 
74435 


Do. 


" A New Kind of For 
tunc Teller " ( Eng .) 
(Colour ) (35 mm .) 


4 - 3 -74 


U 


B /71405 


74436 


“ Rescue Operation " 
( English ) (Colour) 
(35 înın .) (USA ) . 


30 -00 ( 1) United Film Makors Sholton Inc . 

311 - 12, Himalay 
House , Palton Rd., 
Bombay - 1 . 


4 - 3-74 


U 


B /71403 


74437 


" To Serve Is To Love " 
( English ) (Colour ) 
(35 mm . ) 


463 -60 ( 2 ) Mr. Zafar Hai, Cincrad Mr, Zafar Hai, Bom 

Communications, bay -400020 . 
Kshama Bhavan 37 , 
New Marino Lines , 
Bombay -400020 , 


4 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71419 


Harvest " 
(Colour) 


289 . 56 ( 1 ) 


“ Golden 
( English ) 
( 35 mm .) 


74438 


K . S . Raju , M /s. Sri K . S . Raju , Bombay - 1 . 
Proprietor , Green 
Stroct, Top floor , 
Bombay - 1 . 


4 - 3 - 74 


U 
74439 


B /71434 


29 . 87 ( 1 ) 


“ Breath - Taking Ex 
perience " (Hindi) 
( Colour) (35 mm . ) 


Television Radio and 
Motion Pictures, 6 - A , 
Rashmi Carmichael 
Road , Bombay 
400026 . 


Television Radio and 
Motion Pictures, 
Bombay -400026 . 


4 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71420 


B / 71408 


P . E . 


" Uncho Ghar Ki Shobha” 30 .48(1) Movie Centre , 12- M . W . Mukadam 12 , 74440 
( Hindi) ( Colour ) 

Deopoli 7th Perry Deepoli 7th Perry - - 
(35 mm .) Road , Bombay - 50 . Road , Bombay - 50 . 4 - 3 - 74 

U 
" A Question of Idon 283 . 77 (1) Y . R . Khandekar, 5, Y. R . Khandekar. 

74441 
tity" ( Eng.) (35 mm .) 

Sukhman L . J . Rd . , 
Dadar, Bombay - 28 , 

4 - 3 - 74 

U 
“ The Good Earth " 458 . 52 (2 ) S . N . Bhagwat, plotį17 Anand Chitravani Plot 7442 
( English ) (35 mm .) 

Desai Colony Mam - 17 Desal Colony Malad , - 
lodarwadi Lane 6 . 

4 - 3 - 74 
Malad . 


B /71270 


P . E . 


B / 71399 


74443 


" Puro And Gentlo " 
( English ) ( Colour) 
( 35 mm .) 


29 .87 (1) M /s . Film 

Studios 
B - idgo, 


5 , Jyoti M /s . Film 5 , Jyoti 
Kennody Studios Konnedy 
Bombay . Bridge, Bombay- 7 . 


43- 74 


400001. 


U 


B / 71406 


74444 


P . E . 


" Mittee Aur Urwark 
Chitramala Kran 
Sankhya 1 -Mittee 
Koe Parekli " (Hindi) 
(35 mm .) 


411 -48 (1) P , C . Joghi, 25 Hospi- P . C . Joshi, New Delhi 

talRd. , Jangpura , Now 110014 
Delhi- 110014 


4 - 3- 74 


U 


B /71342 


" Turbulenco" ( Eng .) 
(Col.) ( 16 mm . ) (USA ) 


74445 


P . E . 


310 - 90 (1) Office of the Deputy M /s . Emeylopaodia Bri- 

Diroator Gonoral of tannica Educational 
Observatorios, Foro - Corporation . 
cast, Poona -5 , 


4 - 3 - 74 


- 


- 


- 


- 


5 — 369G1/75 


2172 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III — SEC . 4 


- -- 


- 


- - - 


- 
- 


- 


-- - 
- - 


- 
- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


1 


2 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


B / 71342 


" Wavos and 

(English ) 
(USA ), 


Fluids " 
( 16 mm .) 


P .E . 


365 - 76 ( 1 ) Office of the Deputy 

Director Gonoral of 
Observatory Porecast 
ing , Pooną - 4 . 


M /S Emeylopaedia 74446 

Britannica Educa - — 
tional Corporation . 4 - 3 - 74 


U 
74447 


B /71367 


P . E . 


" Bank Manager In 
Action No . 3 , Tiino 
To Think " (English ) 
( Colour ) ( 16 mm .) 
( U . K .) 


243 - 23 ( 3 ) AMA Educational Pvt. Rank Film Library . 

Ltd ., Canada Bridgo , 
Bombay - 1 . 


4 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71384 


220 . 00 ( 2) 


74448 


" The Leather Ball " 

(English ) ( Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (USSR ) 


U . S .S .R . Consulate Kov Popular Soianco 
Gonoral, 42-Nopean Film Studio . 
Sea Road , Bombay-6 . 


4 - 3 - 74 
U 
74449 


B / 71385 


220 . 00 ( 2 ) 


Do . 


Contra ] Documentary 
Film Studios . 


" This is How The Cir 
cuş Bogins " ( English ) 
(Colour) ( 16 mm .) 
(USSR . ) 


4 - 3 - 74 


U 


R /71340 


P . E . 


" Rotating Flows 
( English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (USA ) 


320 - 04 (1 ) Office of the Deputy M /s . Emoylopaedia Bri- 74450 

Director General of tannica Educational - - - 
Obseryatorics Fore- Corporation , 

4 - 3 - 74 
casting Poona - 5 


B /71363 


U 
74451 


P . E . 


" Hand In Hand " 
( English ) (35 mm .) 


223 .00 (1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Poddar of India , 24 - Poddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 


4 - 3 -74 


B /71386 -91 


" Inventions of Pro 
ſekhey Alexandrov" 
(16 mm .) (USSR ). 


109 .00 (1 ) US, S . R . Consulate Contial Documentary 

General 42 - Nopean Film Studio , 
Soa Road , Bombay -6 . 


U 
74452 ((Marathi, Gujarati, 

Punjabi, Tamil 
4 - 3 -74 Telugu , Malaya 

lam versions.). 


U 


R /71483 


" Indian Nows Review 
No . 1325 " ( 35 mm . ) 


230 .00 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 -Poddar of India , 24 - Peddar -- - 
Road , Bombay - 26 , Road , Bombay - 26 , 


74453 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
6 - 3 -74 Gujarati, Assamese 

Oriya , Punjabi, 
Bengali , Kashmiri. 
and Urdu ver 
sions.) 


B /71484 


304 -00 ( 1 ) 


304-00(1) 


Do , 


“ Indian News Review 
No . 1325 " (Southern 
Edition ) ( 35 mm ) 


Do. 


Do . 


74454 (Valid for English 

Hindi, Tamil 
6 - 3 -74 Tolugu , Kannada 

Malayalam versious 


U 


B / 71362 


288 - 00 (1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


74455 


" Rythm of Agricul 
ture " (No Commen 
tary , Music Only ) 
(35 mm .) 


6 - 3 -74 


B /71220 


U 
74456 


" The Luxury of 
Crookes Lacto 
Calamino " (Colour ) 
( 35 mm ) 


30 .00 ( 1 ) Kumla Sharma, Wide - Kamla Sharma, Wide - 

scrcon , 4 , Shirin , screen , 4 Shirin , 
Colaba , Bombay - 5 . Colaba , Bombay - 5 , 


- 


6 - 3 - 74 


( Valid for English , 
Hindi, Bengali , 
Kannada , Mala 
yalam , Telugu & 
Tamil vorsions ) . 


B /71331 


U 
74457 


3 


" Humboldt-Report & 
Roforonco " ( English ) 
( Colour) 16 (mm .) 
(FRG .) 


344 .00 ( 1) Consulate General of Dido Films, 

Federal Republic of 
Germany, Roman 
House, Bombay - 20 . 


was the 


7 - 3 - 74 


B /71448 


74458 


P . E . 


" Vision USA 19 " 
(English ) ( Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (USA .) 


287 -43 ( 1) United States Infor . Thomas Craven . 

mation Sorvice , 4 -New 
Marine Line, Bom 
bay- 20 . 


7 - 3 - 74 


B / 71131 


146 . 30 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Robert Foster . 


U 
74459 


Robot Foter. 


" Scioncc Report 

146 - A ” (English ) 
( 16 mm .) (USA ) 


PE 


These 


P.E. 


7 -3 - 74 


— 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


PART III - -SEC. 4 ] THEGAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2173 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


- = 


= 


- _ 


= 


- - - - - - - - - 

- - - 


- 
- 


- -- - - 
- - 


- - - - 
- - - 

5 


- 

- 


-- - - - ---= 
- - - - - 


- = 

- - - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


-- - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


B / 71314 


Robert 


U 
74460 P .E . 


Foster. 


" Science Report 

147- A " ( English ) 
( 16 mm .) (USA ) 


147 . 52 (1 ) United States Infor- 

mation Service 4 - New 
Marine Line , Bom 
bay - 20 . 


7 - 3 - 74 


U 
74461 P . E . 


B /71315 


146 30 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


" Scionce Roport 
147 - B " (English ) 
( 16 mm .) (USA ) 


7 - 3 - 74 

U 
74462 Not P . E . 


5 /71394 


" Pushpa Ki Abhi 
lasha " (Hindi) 
(Colour) ( 16 mm .) 


109 .42 (1) Chopra Films, 28 - Chopra Filnis , 28 

Gandhi Galli, Delhi-6 Gandhi Gali , Delhi- 6 


7 - 3 - 74 


U 


B / 71263 


(Hindi) 


669 


" Shivaji " 
( 35 mm .) 


74463 Not P . E . 


) National Education & National Education & 

Information , Films, Information Filnis , - 
Ltd ., National Ltd . , Bombay. 
House, Tullach 
Road , Bombay , 


7 - 4 - 74 


B / 71497 


83 -00 (1) 


U 
74464 With trianglc mark . 


Badla " 
(Colour) 


Century Films. 


" Trailer of 
(Hindi) 
(35 mm .) 


R . C , Kumar, Cen - 
tury Film . 


7 - 3 - 74 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 90 -00 
1. Reduce the scene ofmolestation of Asha deleting rolling of the two on the ground . — 2 .00 m . 

Length retained : 3 . 00 m .) 
2. Reduce shots of Nisha being manhandled by the hero where the upper part of her baro thighs is seco . -- 2 - 00 m . 

(Deleted completely .) 
3 . Delete two hard hitting shots . - - 3 .00 m . 

Length of deletions : 7 :00 m . 
Actual Length ofthe film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 83 . 00 m . 


B / 71257 


" Badla ” (Hindi) (Col.) 3772 -00 (17) Century Films, 146 - R . C , Kumar, Century 3218 
( 35 mm .) 

Famous Cino Bldg ., Films, 146 - Fumous - - With triangle mark , 
Mahalaxmi, Bombay - Cinc Bldg ., Bombay- 7 -3 -74 

11 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3848 -00 m . 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 

Ii Delete the underlined word from the following dialogue of young Raju addressed to his step mother 

" Tumliare baap ka nahin khata hoon " - 1 .00 m . 
II : Reduce the fight between Raju and Sharker s gang , by deleting bard hitting shots of blows and kicks 

on the chinand stomach . - 2 . 00 m . 

( Length retained : 16 . 00 m .) 
IIl : Delete the shot of a participant drinking during Govinda procession . - 1 .00 m . 
IV : Delete the underlined word from the dialogue of Raju addressed to hoodlums ;** Teri maan main 

bana kar chhodunga .” — 1 .00 m . 
VI : In the cabaret dance , delete close -ups of indecorous movements of midriff and bosoms of the girl. 

1 . 00 m , 
VII : Delete the dialogue of Randhir addressed to Asha before attempting molestation : " Bina sikho 

sasural jasogi to bhai ki badoami hoyi." - 2 .00 m . 
VIII ; Delete the shot of direct killing of a hireling (Alleged to be police informer) of Randhir in his den . . 

100 m . 
In the cabaret dance , doleto the prominent shots of indecorous movements of midriff and bosoms, - 

3 .00 m . 
XIT : Reduce considerably the fight between Raju and Pinto in Nisha s flat. - 6 .00 m . 

( Length retained : 13 . 00 m .) 
10 . XII : Reduce tho impact of Noosha being killed by Randhir in close-range . - 1 .00 m 

( Length retained : Nil ) ( Completely deleted ) 
XIII : 

Delete the entire soquence of Randhir impersonating a cloctor and strangulating Jagdish to doath in 
the hospital. - 25 . 00m . 
Reduce the gun -battlo botweon the police and hirelings of Randhir including keletion of policemen 
being killed . Roduce the fight between Randhir and Raju and strangulation of Ruju on bout and 
reduce their fight on hill top : - 32 .00 m . 

( Length retained : 75 00 m ) 


12 . XVII : 


Length of deletions : 76 . 00 m . 
Actual Length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3772 .00 m . 


2174 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART 111 — SEC . 4 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


( 1 ) 


(2 ) ( 3 ) 

(5 ) 

( 6 ) 
Endorsement Under Rule 34 

B /71345 -8 
Film " Mr. Anchor " (English & Hindi) 
U - Cert . No. 69231 of 23 - 3- 1972 

This cortificato is also valid for Tamil , Telugu , Kannada and Malayalam versions of the film in 
colour, Tho length of the film remains unchanged . This certificate was endorsed on 6th 
March , 1974 , 

CALCUTTA 


C /7969 


Jadu Bangsha (Bengali) 4 ,586 .00 (17 ) Montago Films, 3 Montage 
(35 mm .) (India ). 

Saklat Placo, Cal- 13 . 


Films 


U 
2966 

- With 
4 - 3 - 74 


triangle mark 


C /7969 

Film Jadu Bangsha (Bangali ) 
Endorsement, 

Original length44,609 . 75 m . 
Delete scence showing crucifiod Christ and Sai Baba Lockot wherevor they occur . 
Finallongth after above delotions will be 
Tho film is partly coloured . Tho longth of coloured and black and white portions 

is as follows . 
( ) Length of coloured portions 
(11) Length of black & white portions . . . 

, 


23 . 75 m 
4 ,58600 m 


171 .00 m 
4 , 415 - 00 m 


Total 


. 


. 


. 


4, 586 . 00 m 


C / 7964 


73384 

— With trianglo Mark 
7 - 3 - 74 


Trailor of Lanja 160 .02 (1 ) N . S . Films (Manipur) G . Narayan Sharma 
Parshuram (Mani 

Paona Rd ., Manipur, 
puri) ( 35 mm . ) ( India ). 

Imphal. 
Endorsement 
Original length - 162 45 m . 
Reduce strangulation of tho woman to the barest minimum 

(Length retained – 3 .65 m ) 
Final longth after above reduction will bo - 160 . 02 metres . 

MADRAS 


2 .43m 


M /8170 


Appa Amma ( Tamil) 3940 -20 (15) Simham Productions, Simbam Productions, 67452 
(33 mm .) ( B . & W .) 

Madras , Madras . 

- - - With outs . 
(India ). 

5 -3 -74 
Endorsomont on cert . No. 67452- U dt. 5 -3- 74 issued to the film Appa Amma ( Tamil) 35 mm . B . & W . 

Longth applied — 4023 : 36 Mts, 
Curs 

Metres 
1 . Reel 3 - Delete the fight with the rowdy . . . . . . . 45 . 10 
2. Reeel 8 — Delete hitting sound jo tho prison (Sound only ) . . . , - 
3. Reel 11 - Delete Sadhu getting into the cupboard with the woman , , 

1. 52 
4 . Reel 12 –- Reduce to a flash the Sadhu molosting the wonian , particularly eliminat 
ing his action on the bed . (Retained - 2 : 13 ) . . . . . . 

1 .52 
5. Reel 13 – Song 5 - Delete the action picturisod for the words " Swarga 
Vasal Thirakkattum " 

1 . 82 
(Replaced shot approved 1 :82). . 
6 . Reel 13 - -Reduce to a flash , the stabbing of a woman in the flash-back sequance . 
( Retained 10 .66 ) . . . . 

. . . . . 

0 . 91 
7 . Reel 15 — Reduce tho holpless condition of the blind child wandering in dangerous 

région . (Ramu must be brought to the child immediately sho is soon in the field ) 
( Retained 24 -38 ) . . . . . . . . . . . 

11 :57 
8 . Reel 15 — Reduce the fight to its last stage in the don when the police tako action . 
(Retained - 68 -87 ) 

. . . . . . . . . 22 - 54 


Total 


, 


. 


84 . 98 


Total replacement 1 .82 Metres . Actual length of film will be 3940 20 Merres in 15 Reels , 


2175 


PART III — Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 

= = = = = = = = -- 
1 34 

6 


- - 


- 


M /8458 


U 
‘ Kai Niraya Kagu 3972 14 (16 ) Arunodaya , Mysore Alunodaya,Mysore 67453 
(Tamil ) (35 mm .) 

- With cuts . 
B . & India ) 

5 - 3 - 74 
Endorsoment on cort . No . 67453 -U , dt. 5 - 3 -74 issued to the film ‘Kai Niraya Kasu ( Tamil) 35 mm . B . & W . 

Length applied 3972 - 14 Motras . 
Cuts . 

Mts . 
Reel 8 In song 3 . doleto thc lines “ Enn Meni Pallakkil Unn Mani Chendral Enna ? " 

and also the slot of dancer on stool with parted logs giving movement of forward 
thrust of crotch . (Replaced shot ofThandavan - 0 . 91 and approved words in song ) 0 .91 


Total 


0 -91 


Actual length of film remains the same, namely 3972 . 14 Metres in 16 Reels . 


M /8470 


M /8463 


M /8462 


Trailer of Sthree 91 .44( 1) Radhamadhav Movies , Radhamadhav Movics 67454 
Gowrayam ( Tolugu ) 

Madras , 

Madras. 
(35 mm ) ( B . & W .) 

5 - 3 -74 
( India ). 

U 
Ammayi Poll ( Telugu ) 4743 .00 ( 17) Bharani Combines, . . Bharani Combines , 67455 
(35 mm ) ( B . & W .) 

Mądras, 

Madras, 
( India ). 

5- 3- 74 

U 
Thaai (Tamil ) ( 35mm .) 451774 (17) Babu Movies,Madras. Babu Movios , Madras. 67456 
( B . & W . ) (India ) . 

- With cuts . 

6 -3 -74 
Endorsement on cort. No . 67456 -U di. 6th March 1974 — issuod to film Thaui ( Tamil) 35 mm . B . & W . 

Length appliod — 4558 - 56 Metros . 
Cuts. 

Metres 
1 . Reel 3 — Delere Minor s sentenco to Sivagami, “ Neeyum Naayum Chinna Pillaya 

Irukkumpodhu Noo Gown Illamey, Nanan Trouser Illamoy 
Vilayadaloy , Appa Illadha Votkam Ippo Ennathukku " , , , , 

4 - 56 
2 . Recl 5 - Reduce Minor molosting Kavori to a suggestion , deleting his pulling 

off hor uppor garmont. (No objection to the scenc boing rotained aſtor tho 
arrival of Anadan on thoscono ) (Retaincd 15 24 ) 

5 - 78 
Cuts. 

Metres 
dance is hotol on BGM , delete the following . - (u ) the dancor 
shaking her pointed breasts over the face of Anandan , (Roplacod Kumar closo 
up - 243 ) . . . . . . . . . . . . 

2 -43 
(1 ) the portion of the shot of the dancer on floor raising her bare leg to a sido 
(Roplacod Kumar & orchestra — 2 - 43) 

2 :43 
4. Reel 8 - From the toxt of song 3 boginning with words " Nanu Parthalum Par 

thendi," delete the following five lines — " Koovathiley Kaasai Alli Pottiruk 
kanga ; Kooda Oru Mudhalayaum Vittirukkangan , Thundu Potta Manuşhanga 
Ellam Sutthikirangamma - - Indha Naataikkooda Thundu Poda Ennikk viran 

gamina ." ( Sound only - replaced approved words) , , , , , 
5 . Reel 15 -- Delete the entire sequenco of Minor with a poster telling Papamma about 
tho illicit lovo and other dialoguos till Papamma throwsmilk on his faço , 

3048 


Total . 


. 


. 


45 -68 


M / 8447 


Total replacoment 4 . 86 Mets . Actual length will be - 451774 Mers . in 17 Reels . 

U 
"Nathoon , (Malaya 4562 - 54 ( 17) Malithara Productions, Shri Abdulla Madras , 67457 
lam ) (35 mm . ) (B . Madras . 

- With cuts . 
& W .) ( India ). 

6 - 3 -74 
Endorsement on cort, No , 67457 - U dt. 6 - 3 -74 isşucd to the film Nathoon (Malayalam ) 35 min . B . & W . 

Length - 4567 ·10 Motros. 
Cuts 

Metres 
Reel 16 - Reduce molostation on Ponnamm . l to a suggestion - Dulering tho action 
pulling the sari and falling together on the cot. (Retained 5 . 47 ) 

· 4 . 56 


Reel 16– Reduce best in 


Total 


: 


: 


4 . 56 


Actual length of the film will be — 4562 -54 Mts. In 17 Reels . 


2176 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) ( PART III -SEC. 4 


- 


- 


7 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


= 


— 


— 


= - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


3 


4 


5 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


M /8455 


M /8439 


With cuts , 


U 
Madarasi Petra Manic 3962 40 (17 ) Das Enterprises , Madras. Das Enterprises , Madras. 67458 
kam ( Tamil) (35 min . ) 
B . & W . ( India ) , 

6 - 3 -74 

U 
Idu Namma Dosha 3299 - 30 (14 ) Dovar Pictures, Banga - Devar Picturos , Banga 67459 
(Kannada ) (35 mm . ) 

loro , 

loro . 
B . & W . ( India ) . 

7 - 3 - 74 
Endorsement on cert. No . 67459 -U , dt. 7th March 1974 — issued to the film Idu Namma Desha 

(Kannada ) 35 mm . 
Longth applied — 3308 : 57 Motros . 
Cuts . 

Metes 
1 . Reel 1 Delete action of polico officor striking the girl 

2 - 58 
2 . Reel 13 - Delete shot ofthe child tied to the revolving whool. 

. 

6 .69 


M /8421 


Total : : : 9 - 27 
Actual length of the film will be --3299 , 30 Meteres in 14 reels 

U 
Arogya Rahasiam 30 -48(1) Film Media, Bombay. Shri Jyoti G . Thakur, 67460 
( Tamil ) ( Colour ) 

Bombay , 
(35 mm .) (India ). 

7 - 3 - 74 

U 
Chalakı Pillalu 30 .48(1) 

Do . 

67461 
( Tolugu ) (Colour ) 
(35 mm .) (India ). 

7 - 3 - 74 


M /8422 


M / 8423 


30 .48 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


67462 


Payrige Pillelu 
( Telugu ) (Colour ) 
(35 mm ) ( India ) . 


7 - 3 - 74 

U 
67463 


M /8424 


30 -48 (1 ) 


Do . 


"Boloyuwa Makkalu 

(Kannada ) (Colour ) 
(35 min .) (India ) . 


7 - 3 - 74 


U 


M /8425 


30 -48 (1 ) 


Do . 


67464 


Jana Makkalu (Kan 
nada ) (Colour) (35 
mm .) (India ). 


7 - 3 -74 


U 


M /8426 


30 -48 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


67465 


Midukkaraya kuttigal 
(Malayalam ) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) ( India ). 


7 - 3 - 73 

U 
67466 


M /8427 


30 . 48 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


" Nalla Arogyatipte 
Rahasyam (Malyalam ) 
( Colour ) 35mm . Iodja . 


7 - 3 - 74 


M /8428 


M /8457 


Valarum 30 ,48 (1) Do . 

Do . 

67467 
Kutigal (Malyalam ) 
Colour 35mm , India . 

7 - 3 - 74 

U 
Keep it Clean 

175. 35 ( 1) Lucas Indian Shevice C .A . V . Ltd ., London , 67468 
(English ) (Colour) 

Ltd ., Madras. 

U . K . 
16mm , UK 

7 - 3 . 74 
PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATE BY THE CENTRAL 

BOARD OF FILM CENSORS DURING THE 
WEEK ENDING 16TH MARCH , 1974, 

BOMBAY 


U 


B /71535 


" Top Man " ( English 
( Colour ) (35mm .) 


37 . 19 ( 1 ) Amrit Arts , Vishwes - Amrit Arts , Vishwe 74465 

hwar Mandir, T , H . shwar Mandir , T . H , - - 
Kataria Rd. , Mahim Kataria Rd , Mahim , 11 - 3 - 74 
Bombay - 16 . 

Bombay - 16 . 


B / 71539 


271 .88 (1) 


DO. 


Do. 


74466 Not . P . E . 


" Iniharu Kina Sukhi 
Chhan " (Nepali ) 
( Colour) (35mm .) 


11 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71541 


75 . 59 ( 1) 1 


Do, 


Do . 


Do 


Do . 


“ Chara -Ko -Updesh " 
(Nepali ) (Colour) 
(35mm .) 


74467 P . E . 
11- 3 -74 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PART 111 — Sec , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2177 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - - - - 


- - - 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


-- - - 


- - - 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


. . va . 


6 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


B /71540 


U 
74468 


P . F . 


" Shantan -Ko Chahna " 
(Nepali) (Colour) 
( 35mm . ) 


52 . 12 ( 1) Amrit Arts , Vishweshwar 

Mandir, T . H , Kataria , Rd ., Mahim , 
Bombay- 16 


11 - 3 - 74 


U 


B / 71409 


74469 


" Trailer of " Chudi 
Chandlo " (Gujarati ) 
( 35mm . ) 


111 . 56 ( 1 ) Ms. Lux Films, Ka- M /s Chetan Chitra . 

thok Lodge, Main 
Rd., Dadar, Bombay - 14 . 


11 - 3 - 74 


B /71463 


30 . 40 (1) 


74470 


" On The Fashion 
Scene" (Hindi) (Co 
(lour ) (35mm .) 


Mafatlal Group of Indra Bilani United 
Mills, 2 , Scindia Film Makers, 311 - - 
House , Janpath , New 12 , Himalaya House 
Delhi, 

Palton 

Road , 
Bombay -400001, 


11 - 3 - 74 


B /71438 - 39 " In To The World of 
46 -47 Wondery " (English ) 

(Colour) ( 16mm .) 
(USSR ) 


223 . 00 (2 ) U . S . S . R . Consulate Georgian Popular 

General 42 , Nepean Science & Documen - - 
Sea Road , Bombay - 6 . tary Film Studio . 


74471 ( Valid for Hindi, 

- Marathi & Gujarati 
11 - 3 - 74 versions. 


U 


B /71449 


280 (1) 


Do . 


Central Documentary 

Film Studio . 


74472 


" Around Tho Soviet 
Union No. 102 " 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 35mm . ) (USSR ) 


11 - 3 - 74 


B /71455 


262 (1) 


Do . 


74473 


" Russian Lace " 

(English ) (Colour ) 
(35mm . ) (USSR . ) 


U . S , S , R . Consulato 
General, 42 -Nepean 
Sea Roud , Bombay - 6 . 


11- 3 - 74 

U 
74474 


B /71453 


279 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


" How Tho Donkey 
Saught Happiness" 
( English ) (Colour ) 
( 35mm .) (USSR .) 


11 - 3 - 74 


B /71392 


“ Young Artisans " 
(Eng .) (35mm .) 


U 
74475 


P . E . 


292 . 00 (1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Dlyision , Govt. 

of India , 24 Peddar of India , 24- Peddar - 
Roud , Bombay - 26 , Road , Bombay - 26 . 


11 - 3 - 74 


B / 71393 


286 .00 (1) 


Do . 


" Growing Groundnut 
(English ) (35mm .) 


Do . 


D 


o. 


74476 


Do 


2476 


P . E . 


P.E. 


11 - 3 - 74 


B /71416 


463 002) 


Do. 


Do. 


74477 Not P . E . 


" Royal Visitors From 
Nepal" (English ) 
( 35mm . ) 


11 - 3 - 74 

U 
74478 


B /71457 


" Trailer of ” Dur Nahin 
Manzil " (HINDI) 
(Col.) ( 35mm .) 


82 - 91 (1) Hari Valia , Mahesh Hari Valia , Mahesh 

Villa , Worli, Bombay , Villa , Worli , Bombay , — 


11- 3 - 74 


B /71482 


74479 


“ Trailer of Do Chat 
tano " (Hindi) (Col.) 
( 35mm .) 


91 -44 ( 1 ) Appollo International Joginder , 12 - Ksara, 240 

12 - Ksara , 240 Pali Pali Rd., Bandra , 
Rd., Bandra, Bombay - Bombay -50 . 
50 . 


12 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71480 


91 . 14 


74480 


" Trailer of Khote 
Sikkay" (Hindi) 
(Col.) ( 35mm .) 


Happy Films, Dhun 

Villa , Varsova Rd., 
Andheri-61 . 


N . D . Kothri , 7 / 1 Air 
Conditioned Market - 
Bombay - 34 . 


B /71595 


231 - 3441) 


" Indian News Roview 
No. 1326 " ( 35mm .) 


Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 
of India , 24 - Pcddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 , 


12 - 3 - 74 

U 
74481 (Valid for English , 
om 

Hindi, Tamil, 
13 - 3 -74 Telugu , Kannada , 

Malayalam , As 
samese , Oriya , 
Punjabi, Bengali , 
Kashmiri & Urdu , 
varsions.) 


B /71596 


300 - 53 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do , 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1326 " ( Western 
Edition ) ( 35mm . ) 


74482 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
13 -3 - 74 Gujarati & Sin 

dhi. Versions.) 


B /71576 - 77 " Maharashtra 


Nows 


259 


259 .00 ( 1) The Director 


74483 


No. 261" Maret 


& (Hindi) (35mm .) 


) The Director General The Diroctor General 

of Infonnation & of Information & - 
Public Rolations, Public Relations, 
Govt, of Maharashtra . Govt. of Maharashtra . 


13 - 3 - 74 


- - - 


2178 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [ PART III Sec , 4 
- - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - 
2 


4 . 


B /71216 


B / 53965 


Dio " 


( English ) 


U 
" Trailer of Vada Tera 79 . 90 (1) Vashdev Shroff , Vashdov Shroff , 74484 With triangle mark , 
Vada " (Hindi) (Col 

Thakkar Films In - Thakkar Films In - — 
our ) (35mm . ) 

ternational, 149 - ternational, 149 . 13 - 3 - 74 
Famous Cine Bldg, Famous Cine Bldg, 
Mahalaxmi, Bombay Mahalaxmi, Bombay 
- 11. 

11 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 83 :52m . 

1 . Delete the superimposed title " Love & Lust and killing of bird with a running fan .-- 0 -65m . 
2. Delete the reply of a stranger in bod addressed to the girl “ Raat gujar gai, aaj baat bhi bhool gayce memsaab " 

- - 0 -65m . 
3 . Reduce by half thọ slaps given by Danny to anothor man . — 0 .54m . 

( Length retained : 1 . 12 m . ) 
4 . Delete the remark of heroine " Abortion ke liyo nahl" addressed to her friend when he suggests about his 

friendship with doctors. — 0 .65 m . 
5 . Delete a firtatious- type of girl addressing heroine : " Main wo bewaqooph ladkiyonse nahi hoon main ia a 

oon main jaanati 
hoon , main yohan kis liye uayce hoon " , when she is found in tho company of her lover. - - 1 . 13 m . 
Length of deletions : 3 . 62 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be: 79 . 90m . 

U 
" America Paese Di 2919 .65 (12) Educational Films of Titanus International. 74485 P . E . With trianglo 
(English ) India , Division of 

- mark , 
(Colour ) (35min . ) Film Library Pvt. , 

15 - 3 - 74 
(Italy ) 

Ltd ., 190 D . N . Rd., 

Bombay - 1. 
Endorsement : 

Original Length : 304800m . 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 
I VI : Delete all shots of girls with bare bosoms and with thinly covered blouse on their bosoms shown in 

the restaurant. – 18 . 90m . 
2 . VII : Delete all shots of the torture of the calf of dragging it, branding it with red hot iron and clipping 

and sawing off its hom . — 52 - 43 m . 
3 . X : (i) Delete shots of (a ) dance of topless girls 5 . 91m . (b ) parading of two scantily cladgirls with part 

of their bosoms and posteriors discernible and 2 .61m ,(c ) Close shot of girls flipping their scan 

tily covered posteriors 3 . 77 m . 
(ii) Reduce considerably tho sequence of the Carnival of angels deleting : 

( a ) their bouts with tho police 2 .04 m . 
(b ) the shot of the angel riding a motorcycle and there after immediately falling from it. 

5 . 22 m . 

(c ) the shot of blood smoared face of an angle .— 8 .03 m . 
4 . XI : (a ) Delete shot of a beatle pouring winc on the navel of a girl and another sipping it off. - 5 . 79 m . 

(b ) Roduce prolonged kissing between a boy and a girl sitting on the shoulders of the beatles . - 9 . 44m 

- 9 . 44m . 
(c ) Delete shot of a boatle caressing the posterior of a girl and kissing her. 4 .02 m . 
( d) Delete tho following words as spoken by a slogan monger ; " LBJ; how many people you havo 

killed " ? 5 . 19m . 
Length of deletions : 123 -35m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be : 2919 .65 m , in 12 reels , 


U 


74486 


B / 71430 


" Vagant-One " (Mara 
thi) (Colour ) (33mm ) 


98 . 16 ( 1) Cinema Workshop , Cinema Workshop , 

National House , National House , - 
6 - Tulloch Road , 6 - Tulloch Road , 
Bombay -400039 . Bombay -400039 . 


15 - 3 -74 


U 


B /71418 


74487 P . E . 


" A Vital Docision " 
( English ) (35mm .) 


194 . 00 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt . Films Division , Govt . 

of India , 24 -Poddar of India , 24 -Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 , Road , Bombay - 26 . 


15 - 3 - 74 


B /71575 


“ Trailor of Kshitij” 

(Hindi) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) 


71 -63 ( 1) Roopkamini Inter - Roopkamini Intor 

national, 5 - F Naaz national. 5 - F Nuaz 
Bldg., Lamington Bldg., Lamington 

Road , Bombay -4 , Bombay, Road , - 4 
- 


U 
74488 
+ 
15 - 3 -74 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


2179 


PART III - SEC, 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 

- - - - - - - - -- - -- 
12 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - - 
- 


- - 
- - 


- 

- 


= = 

- 


= 
- 


G - - - - 


- 


-- 


- 


2 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


+ - + 


- 


4 


- 4 - - - 


- 4 - 7 


B /71479 


199 - 85 ( 1) Hindustan Aeronau - Louis A 

tics Limited . Bombay Associates . 


Allen 


U 
74489 


P . E . 


" Programming, Sche 
duling Procoodures , 
Budgoting , Planning " 
( English ) ( 16mm .) 
(UK .) 


15 - 3 - 74 


B /71478 


191 -93( 1) 


Do . 


" Delegating Respon 
sibility & Athority 
(English ) ( 16mm .) 


P . E . 


U 
74490 

- 
15 - 3 - 74 

U 
74491 

- 
15- 3 - 74 


B / 71477 


204 . 12( 1) 


Do , 


Do. 


74491 


" Establishing Effec 
tive Working Re 
lationships" ( English ) 
( 16 .) 


P . E . 


B / 71476 


210 -83 ( 1) 


Do . 


" Process of Manage 
ment " ( English ) 
( 16mm .) (UK ) 


U 
74492 
15 - 3 -74 


P . E . 


U 


B /71475 


188 -67 (1 ) Jlindustan Aeronau - 

tics Lid . 


“ Motivating " (English ) 

( 16mm . ) (UK . ) 


Louis A 
Associates . 


Allen 


74493 


P .E . 


B /71498 - 

71503 


" I Want To Be A 
Worker " (35mm .) 
(Colour ) 


508 . 00 ( 2 ) U . S . S . R . Consulate Central Documentary 
Gcncral. 

Film Studio , 


15- 3 - 74 

U 
74494 

- 
16 - 3-74 


( Valid for Engllsh , 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, Punjabi 
& Telugu versions.) 


112 . 00 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


/ 71504 -11 " Around The Soviet 

Union No . 99 " (Col 
our) ( 16mm . )(USSR ) 


U 
74495 ( Valid for English , 

- Hindi, Marathi, 
16 - 3 - 74 Gujarati, Punjabi, 

Tamil , Telugu 

& Malayalam " 

versions.) 
U 
74496 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
16 - 3 - 74 Bongali , Punjabi, 

Tolugu , Kannada 
& Malayalam 
vorsions .) 


B / 71512 - 19 " Ostankino " (Colour ) 

( 16mm .) (USSR .) 


222 .00 ( 2) 


DO . 


B / 70059 


3219 With triangle mark . 


15 - 3- 74 


" Kora Bidan " (Hindi) 3657 . 60 ( 14 ) Brar Productions, 11 , Boota Singh Shaad , 
(Colour) (35mm .) 

Surang Hotel, San - 11 Surang Hotel, - 
tacruz, ( W ) 

Santacruz ( W ) 
Bombay -54. 

Bombay - 54 . 
Endorsement ; 
Original Length : 3721 -28 

Cut Reel 
No . No. 


1 . I 


2 . 
3. 


11 
TV 


4 . 


V 


: Delete the lip to chook proximity between Mahesh and Neelam as occured twice during the song . 

- -- 2 : 35 . m . 

(Length replaced : 2 -35 m .) 
: Delete the suggostion of kigg between Mama and Champa in bed , - 4 - 29 m . 
: Reduce the passionate gestures of Moena in bod with Mahesh , as seen in her imagination . 8 -69 m . 

( Length relaineıl : 5 .35 m .) 
: ( a ) Delete the suggestion of kiss between Mahesh and Neelam before they go off the screen . - 2 .05 
( b ) Reduce the cabaret dance, deleting tho indecont close view of bust jerkingmovements , and 

also tho indecont moveinents of the hip hy the dancer. - - 8 - 34 m , 

(Replacod with approval shots : 8 -34 m .) 
( ) Reduce drastically love making scene between Meena and Mahesh as imagined by her, and her 

reactions on the bol, kccping only a suggestion for establishing her passion for him . - 11 . 04 m . 

(Length retained : 2 -66 m .) 
(6 ) Reduce the indecorous and passionate gestures of Meona during the song " Meri jawani. . .." 

and immigined by hor . - - 14 : 39 m . 
(Replace with approved shots 14 . 39 nr. ) 
( Length retalned : 15 .87 m .) 


5 . VI 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


6 - 369GI/ 75 


2180 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [PART III – -Sec. 4 


"IL 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


1 


6 


6 . VI : Reduce suitably the fight between Mahesh and the bald man , including the close view of neck being 

pressed down with a stick . – 3 . 77 m . 

(Length retained : 20 . 11 m .) 
7 . VII : Delete the sentence " Kutch humse bhi dhulwa lo " as spoken to Champa by Mama, as also tho 

suggestivo sound of whistling by Mama when she walks towards him . - 1 .52 m . 
8. VII ; ( a ) In the rape scene of Champı, reduce the panting and short breathing by her. 0 : 39 m . 

( Deleted completely ) 
(6 ) Reduce the fight botween Mahesh . Taxiwala and his men and also delete the sound effect of 

stabbing - - 2 -98 m . 

( Deleted completely ). 
9 . TX : Reduce to a Mash tho superimposed viow of a man being fragged by horse during the raid by dacoits . 

- 0 .91m . 

( Length retained : 0 . 91 m . ) 
10 . IX : Delete the dialogues of Lalaji to his wife with reference to " Ghanti bajana " etc . 6 .44 m . 
11. X : Delete the dialogues between the two comedians : 

" Tum ghodi ban , Mcin upar chhadta hoon " 
" Sambalna , main upar chhad roha hai" 
" Yahan nahin , lipar chhad" 

" Abe teri. . . . . . . . " otc. 1 .65 m . 
12 . X : Delete the flashes of lip to chcek proximity between Mahesh and Neelam as seen by her in her 

imagination . - 9 .33 m . 
13. XI : Delete the vicw of Makt Sinha pointing towards her breasts on the word " Doodh " in the beginning 

of the song. - 2 . 50 m . 

(Roplaced with upproved shots : 2 . 50 m .) 
14 . XII : ( a ) Delete the gestures of comedian making water and also the dialoguo “ Jagah bhigodi" and 

" upar ko aa raha hai" , 6 . 40 m . 

(b ) Delete the reference to " Ram in comparison with daku 1 .28 m . 
15 . XIV : In the fight reduce thọ goneral fight and also the views of hitting on the stomach and hitting with the 
butt of the gun . - 2 . 94 m . 

Length of Deletions : 91 -26 m . 
Length of Approved replacement : 27 . 58 m . 
Actual Length of the Film after the aforesait alterations will he : 3657 -60 m . 


B / 71460 


“ Goonj" (Hindi) 3701 50 (15) Sangam Films, Ashir - A . V . Mohan , Sangam 3220 With triangle mark . 
( Colour) (35mm .) 

wad , - A Vithal Films Bombay -56 . 
Nagar, Sociсty , 10th 

15 - 3 - 74 
Rd ., Juhu , Bombay - 56 . 
Endosedoment 

Original Length : 3727 . 71 m . 
Cut No . Reel No . 
1 . III ; Delete kissing between Meena and Raju during the picturisation of song. – 0 . 80 m . 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0 - 80 m .) 
2 . IX : Reduce considerably the entire scene of Rakesh and Meena making love in bod . — 15 - 54 m . 

( Length relained : 41 - 45 m .) 
3 . XV : In the fight, deleto shots of hard hitting, kicks on the chin and prominent view of blood smeared 

facc 10 -67 m . 
Length of deletions : 27 .01 m . 
Length of approved replacement : 0 -80 m . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 370150 m , in 15 reels , 
Endorsement Under rule 34 . 

B /71464 
Film : " Orange Fxplosion " ( English ) 
U -Cert . No , 74385 of 19 - 2 - 1974 . 
This certificate is also valid for Tamil version of the film . The length of the film remains unchanged . This cert 

ficatc was endorsed on 11th March , 74 . 
B /71465 
Film ; " Naryngi Inquilab ” (Hindi) 

U - Cert . No . 74370 of 16 - 2 -1974 
This certificate is also valid for Bengali and Telugu versions of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 

unchanged . 

This certificate was endorsed on 13th March , 1974 . 
— — 

- 

- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 


PART III — SEC , 41 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2181 


1 


4 


5 


6 


7 


B /71578 -9 
Film : " Top Mun ” ( English ) 
U - Cert . No . 74465 of 11- 3- 1974 . 
This certificate is also valid for Hindi and Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 

unchanged , 
This certificate was endorsed on 13th March , 19741 
B /70679 
Film " Mehamaan ” (Hindi) (Col.) 
U - Cert. No. 73819 of 13- 11- 1973 . 

Deleted various shots : 44 . 48 m . 
Actual length of the filin after the aforosaid deletions will be : 178 -42 m . 
This certificate was endorsed on 15 - 3- 74 . 

WEEK ENDING 16TH MARCH , 1974 


CALCUTTA 


U 


C / 7882 


Mopin 
( Colour) 
India . 


(English ) 
(16 mm .) 


73385 P .E . 


121. 92 ( 1) Devjani Chaliha & 

Associates, P - 20 , Golf 

Club Road , Ca )-33, 
MADRAS 


Devjani Chaliha & 
Associates . 


12- 3 - 74 


M /8488 


U 
67469 


Vartha Chitra 28 
(Kannada ) (35 mm .) 
(B & W ) India 


242 31 ( 1 ) Director of Informa - Director of Informa 

tion & Publicity , tion & Publicity , 
Bangalore 

Bangalore . 


12 - 3- 74 

U 
67470 


M /8489 


243 . 84 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do , 


"Vartha Chitra 292 
(Kannada ) ( 35 mm . ) 
( B & W ) India . 


12 - 3 - 74 


U 


M /8436 


Kode Naagu ( Telugu ) 4216 .60 ( 16 ) Rajendra Prasad Shri M . S . Reddy , 67471 With cuts . 
( Colour) ( 35 mm . ) 

Combincs, Madras. Madras. 
India , 

12 - 3 -74 
Endorsement on Cert . No. 67471- U , dt. 12th March 1974 issued to the film ‘ Kode Naagu ( Telugu ) (Colour). 
Length applied : 4265 .00 m . 
Cuts . 

Metros . 
1. Reel 3 – Delete Nagaraju actually throwing stones at the Principal s house 1 . 52 
2 . Reel 5 ---In the lighting scene between Nagaraju and Salcem , delete 

Nagaraju kicking on the chest of Saleem with his boot when 
Saloen is down lying flat on the ground . . . 

2 .58 
3 . Reel 6 – Delete Varadachåri s sentence " Padma Shri birudu ivvalainde" 
referring to Julie . . . . . 

1 . 97 
4 . Reel 13 – Delete the dialogues of Sanyasya and his two friends beginning 

from " Mugguram vunnamu ." upto Swadesh aaruke better . 10 . 81 
5 . Reel 14 - From the picturisation of song " Kathu Vinduya " , delete Amruta 

valli s husband pushing her into a room and later the sequence 
in the room where a customer pushes her on bed and falls 
over her on bed . (Replaced atmosphere shot : ( 

609 ). 

6 .09 
6 . Recl 16 – Reduce to bare minimum shots of bodies of Nagaraju and 

Julic with prominently scen blood staing after they leep to 
death . . 

4 . 40 
7 . Reel. 16 - Delete he close- shot of teacher Ruma Sarma s blood stained 

face. 
Total replacement 6 .09 Mts, in Rcel 14 Voluntary deletion in Total 54 . 49 
Rcel 10 & 11 27 . 12 . 


faco . 


. 


. 


. 


+ 


Approved replacement : 27 - 12 mts . 
Actual length is 4216 -60 metres in 16 Reels . 


M /8468 


U 
67472 


Balarana Srce 
Krislına (Kannada ) 
colour (35 m .in . India . 


5148 -36 (20 ) Sankur Art Films, 

Vijayawada 


Shri K . Giri Sankara 
Rao , Vijayawada , 


12 - 3 - 74 


M /8473L0 
M / 8476 


137 . 16 (1 ) Ramu Kariat & 

Associates , Madras . 


Ramu & Kariat 

Associates , Madras . 


U 
67473 

- P . E . 
15 - 3 - 74 


Ungal Ellorukkum 
Oru Nalla Thuttam 
( Tamil , Telugu , 
Kannada and 
Malayalam ) 35 mm . 
( Colour), India . 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


2182 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [ Part III — Sec . 4 
-- - - - = 

- = 

= - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


3 


6 


. - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- -- 


U 


St. 


M /8492. " Tamilnadu · Govt. 305 00( 1) Thọ Directorate of The Directorate of 67474 
Regional News 

Information and Information and - - 
Bulletin 112 ( Tamil) 

Public Relations, Public Relations, 15- 3 -74 
35mm , B & W Indid 

Madras, 

Madras. 
PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD FILM 

CENSORS DURING THE Weak ending 23rd March 1974 
BOMBAY 

U 
B /71303 " Dare The Sun " 30 . 48 ( 1) Keith Allams ( M / s. Keith Allams (Ms. 74497 
( English ) ( Colour) 

KAPPA ) 

1 - A KAPPA ) Bombay - 50 
( 35mm .) Monisha , 

18 - 3 - 74 
Andrew s Road , 
Bandra , Bombay -50 

U 
B /71436 " Operation Environ 

95 .71( 1 ) Image Indie films Peter Von Zahn & Uwe 74498 P . E . 
mont" (Einsatzort ; 

Pvt. Ltd . , 

Krauss, 
Umwelt ) ( English ) 

18 - 3 - 74 
(Colour ) (16mm . ) 
( W . Germany) 

U 
B /71365 " Chor Machaye Shor" 3996 -53 ( 15) N . N . Sippy , 4 - B , N , N . Sippy , 4 - 

B 74499 With triangle mark 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 

Naaz Building, Lami Naaz Building, Lani - 
(35mm .) 

nigton Rd. Bombay - 4 ngton Road , Bombay - 4 18 - 3 -74 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 4097 .93 m . 

Cut No. Reel No. 
1. II : Delete the impression of a kiss between Vijay and Rekha during the picturisation of song. - 0 .69m . 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0 .69 m .) 
2 . III : Dialogue pertaining to Maharaja s daughtor doing cabaret dance in hotel may be changed as it 

is likely to be considered derogatory. (Replaced with approved words) (Deleted sound only ) . 
3 . IV : Delete the word Saale when Raju and Fulwa make reference to the administration of jail. 

( Deleted sound only ) (Replaced with approved words ) . 
4. IV : Delete the kiss between the Vijay and Rekha at the end of the reel,- 0 .53 m . 
5 . VII ; During the scenc Jamnadas discuss his election strategy with hirelings, delete the impression 

of Jannadas fighting election for a particular party because his hirelings aro wearing Khadi and 
Gandhi caps and appear to belong to a well known political party . ( Impression has been removed 

by adding approved words) . 
6 . VII : Delete the impression of kiss between Vijay and Rekha . 0 .69 m . 
7. VIII : Reduced the fight between Vijay s gang and dacoits. — 7 . 40 m . (Length retained : 42 - 36 m . ) 
8 . IX : Delete the proninent views of the nude picture on tho back of Fulwa. — 7 . 54 m . (Replaced with 

approved shots 1 : - 26 m .) 
9 . IX : ( a ) Delete all prominent close ups of Chandramukhi s breast as seen by Raju and his gang 

2 : 44 . 
( b ) Delete the Raju s suggestive dialogue of Chandramukhi : “ . . . Palangpar, " (Deleted sound 

only ) (Replaced with approved words). 
(c ) Delete the dialoguo about sharing of the girl by all and Fulwa s dialogue " Ustad ke baad hum . . " 

and its, repetition , – 11 . 12 m . 
10 . X . 

Delete suggestion of a kiss between Raju and Chandramukhi. Also delete the scene of Raju 

untying hor blouso .-- - 3 .01 m . 
11 . X : Reduce the fight between Vijay and Raju in particular deleting Vijay s hard hitting blows on Raju s 

stomach and chin . — 7 . 51 m . (Length retained : 34 . 31 m . ) 
12 . XIC : In the scene of Jamnadas where he is showing the replace of golden statue to a foreigner, reduce 

the scene to the minimuin by keeping only a short reference .45 . 92 ni . (Length retained : 31 - 37 m .) 
13 . XII : Reduced considerably the beating of ducoits by Vijay. - 9 . 89 m . (Length retained : 14 . 02 m .) 
14 . XIV : (1) Reducod considerably the gun battle between dacoits and Vijay s gang . - - 5 -58 in , ( Longth 

retained ; 6 . 37 m . ) 
XV (ii) Delete the shots of bullets bursting one the back of dacoits .- - 1 .08 m . 


XVI 


(11) Reduce to a Hash the shots of dragging of Raju behind a horse . — 1 . 03 m . (Length retained : 

1 . 40 in . ) 
( iv ) Reduce drastically the scene of Ruju and his gang being hanged by their feet retaining only 

a small fish for suggestion . - 17 . 12in (Replaced with approved shots : 0 .47 m . ) ( Longth 

retained : 9 .03 m .) 
(v ) Delete the reinarks of Janinades with referenco to the heroine " Usko nangi kar do " , 0 . 52 m 
(vi) Reduce considerably the dragging of two dacoits behind a horse by retaining only one small 

flash , - 2 -63 m . (Length rotained : 2 .07 m .) 
(vii ) Reduce sconsiderably tho hand to hand fight kicks and blows : 16 :07 m . (Length retained : 

18 . 50 m .) 


- - - - 


PART III — SEC, 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2183 


DIS . .. 


- = - - - - - -- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( viii ) Delete the shot of Raju s blood siedied hand from where hic puls a blood tika on his forc 

licad and delete the subsequent shots of his shoving the blood smearcd hand to Rekha . - - 

9 . 42m . (Replaced with approved shots - 6 . 37m 
Length of deletions : 110 . 19 m . 
Length of approved replacement - : 8 .79 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3995 .53 in 15 recls. 


B1714 . 35 (1) 


74500 


218 . 54 

( 1 ) 


Not P . E . 


Image India Filins , 
Pvt . Ltd ., Bombay . 


Putcı yon Tahn & 
Uwc Krauss . 


18 - 3 - 74 


Mercedes-Benz 
Builds 

Cars 
(Mercedes Benz 
Baut Auts ) (English ) 
( 16 mm .) ( colour) 
( W . Germany) . 


220 .00 (2) 


USSR Consulate 
General - 2 


Central Popular 
Science Studio , 


ing " 


B /71526 -33 " Blues Arc Attack 

(Colour ) 
( 16 min .) 
( USSR .) 


74601 ( Valid 

for 
Marathi, Hindi 
19 - 3 - 74 Gujarati Punjabi, 

Tamil, Malayalam , 
Telugul, & Bengali 
versions) 


U 


B /71589 - 94 


“ Advonturos of the 
cucumbor " (Colour ) 
( 16 mm ) (USSR ). 


111 .00 (1) USSR Consulalc Ge- Soyuözmult F Im Stu 
neral Bombay . 

dio . 


74602 ( Valid for Gujarati , 

- Punjabi, Bongali, 
19 - 3 -74 Telugu , Kannada & 

Mulyalım , ver 

sions. ) 
U 
74603 (Valid for Gujarati, 

Hindi, Marathi, 
19 - 3 - 74 Bengali, Tamil, Te 

lugu , Malayalam 
& Kannada yer 
sions ) 


112 .00 ( 1) 


Do. 


B /71564 -71 " Around The Soviet 

Union No . 94 " ( Col.) 
(USSR ) ( 16 mtr ). 


Contral Documentary 
Film Studio . 


U 


B / 71580 


111 .00 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


74604 


" Around Tho Soviet 
Union No. 97 " ( Te 
lugu ) (Colour ) (16 
inm ) . 


19 - 3 - 74 


U 


B / 71640 


2130 


) 


Indian Nows Review 
No . 1327 " ( 3 5nim ) . 


Films Division , Govt. Filnis Divisio ) , Govt. 
of Indiit , 24 , Peddar of India , Borrbay - 26 , 
Road , Bombay- 26 . 


- 


74605 ( Valid for English , 

-- Hindi, Marathi, 
20 - 3 - 74 Gujarati Tamil, 

Tolugu , Kannada, 
Malayalım , As 
samoso , Oriya & 

Bengali versions). 
U 
74606 ( Valid for English , 

- Hindi, Kashmiri, 
20 - 3 - 74 Punjabi & Urdu 

versions ) 


B /71641 


" Indian Nows Roview 
No . 1327 " N . E . ( 35mm . ) 


303 .00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do , 


1 /71637 - 8 


74607 


" Mihara litrat News 
No . 262 " (Hudi & 
Maratlı ) (35 min ). 


298 . 00 (1 ) The Dircctor Geno - Tho Director General 

ral of Information of Information & 

& Pubic Rolation , Public R ation , 
Bombay - 34. 

Bombay - 34 . 


20 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71520 


“ Billions For Tho 
Millions" ( 16 mm ) 

USSR . 


2 30 .00 ( 2 ) USSR Consulate Ge- Central Docuinentary 
noral Bombay . 

Films Studio . 


74608 ( Vali fo . Glijärathi 

- - - Punjabi, Tolugu , 
20 - 3 - 75 Malayala , n , Bon 

gali , & c Marathi, 
versions ), 


U 


B /71452 


" Wolcomc" (Gujarathi) 
( 16 mm ) (USSR ). 


165 . 00 ( 2) 


Do . 


Do. 


74609 


20 - 3 -74 


R / 71454 


“ Ural Trucks " ( Bon - 
gali ) ( 16 mm ) (USSR ) 


101 .00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


U 
74610 


Sverellovsk Film 


Svorullovsk Fil 
dio , 


Slu 


Slu 


20 -3 - 74 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


2184 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) ( PART III — SEC . 4 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


2 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


B /71456 


217 - 00 (2 ) 


Do, 


U 
74611 


Central Documentary 

Film Studio , 


" Along Thio Rod 
Squaro Under The 
Red Banner " (Ma 
rathi) ( Colour ) (16 
mm ) (USSR ) . 


20 -3 - 74 


U ! 
74612 


B / 71642 


276 . 75 ( 1 ) Dhirendra lunde. 


« Uttar Pradesh Sama 
char No. 22 " (Hindi) 
(35 min .) 


Tho Director of In 

formation Govt . of - 
Uttar Pradesh , 


20 - 3 - 74 


B / 71152 


74613 


" Manavata (Gujarati) 
(35 mm .) 


164 .59 ( 1) Filmi Saudagars, 11 - Filmi Saudagars , 

Kshitij, Adarsh Bombay -64 . 
Society , Ramchandra 
Lane, Malad ( W ) 
Bombay -64 . 


20 - 3 -74 


U 


B / 71472 


74614 


" Initiating And De 
ciding " ( English ) ( 16 
(mm ) (U .K .). 


187 -76 ( 1 ) Hindustan Aeronau - Louis A . Allon Asso 

tios Ltd ,. I lyderabad . ciates . 
42 . 


PE, 


20 - 3 -74 

U 
74615 


B /71473 


" Developing People s 
( English ) ( 16 mm . ) 


188 . 98 (1) 


Do . 


PE 


20 - 3 - 74 


U 
74616 


B /71471 


199 .95 (1) 


Do , 


" Forecasting - - Sot 
ting Objectives " (En 
glish ) ( U . K .). 


PL . 


20 - 3 - 74 
UR 
74617 


B /71474 


207 . 87 ( 1) 


Do . 


" Developing of Per 
formance " Standar 
ds" (English ) (16 
mm ) (U . K .). 


20 - 3 - 74 


B / 71470 


B / 71604 


B /71605 


B / 70700 


" Communicating " 195 -07 (1) Do . 

74618 
( English ) (16 mm .) 

P . E . 
( U . K .), 

20 - 3 - 74 

U 
**Punjab News Reol 297 - 18 ( 1 ) R . K . Gupta , Bom - Director Public Re- 74619 
No . 6 " ( Punjabi (35 

bay Film Lab , lations Punjab , Cha - - - 
mm ) . Pvt. Ltd ., 149 - S . K , ndigarh , 

21- 3 - 74 
Bolo Rd ., Dadar , 
Bombay - 28 D . D . 

U 
" Punjab Nows Reol 299 .92 ( 1 ) 

Do . 

Director Public Rou 74620 
No, "7 " (Purjabi) (35 

lațions Punjab , Cha 
nim ). 

ndigarh . 

21 - 3 - 74 

U 
" Kshitij " (Hindi) (Co - 3545 -84 ( 15 ) Roopkanini Inter - H . O . B . Prasad , 74621 with triangle mark , 
lour) (35 mm ) 

national. 

Roopkamini Inter - - - 
national, 

21- 3 - 74 
Endorsement 

Original Length 3557 . 93 m . 
Cut Rool 
No . No . 
1 . ) In the inter-cut negative exposures (solarised sequenco ) deloto the second and tho third shots showing 

bare -bodied couplo making lovo on bod . - 21.25 m . (Roplacod with approved shots 21 - 25 m ). 
2 . III From the dialogues ol Joginder with Sherla dolote the underlined words liom tho following linos 

Shoola : Is ko unusaar napunsi k vyakti ki bjbi doosre undmi so bachha paida karva sakti thi. " 
Joginder ; " Mahabharat ke Pandu , Ditarashtra , Vidui isi jarah pui la luye hain aur ye paan nahin 
samjha jata tha .” — 2 .03 m , 
Reduce the lirst shot of Rita lying over a boy in bod retulinig the socond shot for suggestion - 0 - 30 m , 
(Longth rotainod : 0 .61 m .). 
During the photography Soquanco , dolote the shot from the momont the man romovos Shoola s bra 
from hor person and shows it to the camord with a wink . - 1 . 12 m . 
Reduce the fight botwcon Dhiraj and Kishan deleting the gruesomo visuals . — 7 . 12 m . 

(Longth retained 27 : 13 m . ). 
6 . XI . Delete the underlined words from the following dialogues of the photographer addressod to Shela , 

with roforence taking nude photographs of hor " Us din ka scene naqli tha , aal asli loga.-- 1 .52 m . 
7. XIV From tho cabaret sequenco , dolete all tho shots in which the cabaret dancer kecps tho inicrophone j11 

front of hor face and recites shlokas from Kumarasambhavam ( There is no objaction to the shots 
showing Parvati Shankor dance on tho stage ) 27 .65 m . 
(Replacod with approved shots -- 27 .65 m .) . 

Longth of Joletions 60 .99 m . 
Longth of approved roplacomont : 48 . 90 in . 
Actual length of the film aftor the aforesaid alteration will be 3545 .84 m . in 15 Reels . 


2185 
- - - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- - - - - - - - - - - - 


PART III — Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMEER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 
- 

- SS - - - - - - - 
3 

4 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


U 


B /71599 


" Sohani Raat" 

Hindi (35 mm .) 


3121.46 ( 11) 


B / 71614 


“ D .CM . 
( English ) 
(35 mm ). 


Sarees" 
( Colour ) 


30 .48( 1 ) 


S . Saran , Top floor, 153 S . Saran , Top floor, 153 74622 
Asha Nivas , Naigaum , Asha Nivas, Naigaum , 
Dada , r Bombay - 14 . Dadar , Bombay - 14 . 22 - 3 - 74 

U 
M / s . Television Radio M / 4 . Television 

74623 
& Motion Pictures Radio & Motion Pic - . 
6 - A , Rizshmi. 

tures , 6 - A , Rashmi 22 - 3 - 74 
Carmichal Roud , Charmichal Road, 
Bombay - 400026 . Bombay -400026 . 


B / 71552 


152 .40 ( 1) 


74624 


" Elasticity And Plas - 
ticity " (English ) ( 35 mm ). 


P . E . 


D . N . Kapadia , Vijay D . N . Kapadia . Ban 

Nagar , No. 5 , R . N dra , 
135, Bandra Hous 
ing Collany, Ban 
dra . 


22-3 - 74 


U 


B / 71613 


" Peera Hare , Achha 
Karo " (Hindi) (35 mm ) . 


30 - 48 ( 1 ) 


Film Medit, 47 
Laxmi Insuranco 
Building, Sir P . M . 
Road , Bombay - 1. 


Mr. Juoti G . Thakur , 74625 
Film Media , Bombay - 1 - 

22-3-74 


B / 71291 


U 
74626 


" Caribou of Northern 
Cunda " (English ) 
(Col.) (16 mm ) ( Ca 
ndi). 


P . E . 


153 .01( 1 ) National Education National Film Board 

& Information , Fil- of Canada . 
ins, National 
Housc , Tulloch Rd .. 
Apollo Bander, 
Bombay . 


22 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71290 


186 . 84 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


74627 


P . E . 


“ The Huntsman " (En . 

glish ) (Colour) ( 35 
mm .) ( Canada ). 


22 -3 -74 

U 
74628 


B / 71289 


147 . 55 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


P . E . 


" A Spoclul Place" 
( English ) ( Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (Canada ). 


22 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71468 


" Pyag " (Hindi) ( Co 
lour) ( 35 mm ). 


29 .87 (1 ) Ms. Film 

Studios , 
Bridge , 
400007 . 


5 , Jyoti M /s. Film 
Keddedy Studios , 
Bombay Bridge , 

400007 


5, Jyoti 74629 
Kennedy + 
Bombay 22 - 3 - 74 


B / 71467 


" Thirst" (English ) 
( Colour ) (35 mm ). 


29 .87 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


74630 


22 - 3 - 74 

U 
74631 


B /71417 


" Our Striking Forco " 
( English ) (35 mm ). 


P . E . 


225 .00 ( 1) Films Division , Go - Films Division , Go 

vornmont of India , vernment of Indir , 
24 - Pcudir Road , 24 - Peddar Road , 
Bombay- 26 

Bombay - 26 . 


22 - 3 - 74 


B /71611 


" Wanted Alive " ( En - 
glish ) ( 35 mm ). 


U 
74632 


P . E . 


70 .00 ( 1) Issur Film , 2 , Mitra Ingar Filois , 2 , Mitra 

Milin , 68 , Chupul Rd ., Milan , 68 . Chapel Rd ., 
Bindra , Bomay - 50 . Bandia Bombay - 50 


22 - 3 - 74 


B /71572 


7 


" Applique of Orissu " 
( English ) (Colour) . 


292 . 00 (1) Twin Films, 


U74633 


P . E . 


Dilip Dutta , Twin 

Films, 22 /339 Si 
dharthna car- 4 , Go - 
regaon -West Bom 
bay -62, 


22- 3 - 74 


B /71279 


74634 


P . E . 


" The Motor Effect" 
( Silont) (8 mm .) (U . K .). 


16 . 00 ( 1 ) Cinema Workshop , Macmillan & Cem 

National House , 6 
Tulloch Road , Bom 
hay- 1 , 


22 - 3 - 74 


B /71278 


" Secondary Cell " 
(Silent) (8mm ) (U . K .). 


B071278 a entrar en 16.90) 


16 .00(1) 


Do 


Do. 


Do , 


D . 


74635 


P . E . 


22 - 3 - 74 


B / 71277 


P .E . 


" Sense Of Hearing 

(Silent) ( Colour) (8 
mm . ) ( U . K . ). 


16 .00 ( 1 ) Cinema Workshop , Macmillan & Com . 

National Houso , 6 
Tulloch Road , 
Bombay- 1 . 

- - - - 


74636 
22 - 3- 74 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


2186 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III — SEC . 4 


1 


2 


3 


7 


U 


B /71276 


16 0 (1) 


74637 


" Perception Of Light 

Enorgy ” (Silent) (8 
mm .) ( U . K .). 


P . E . 


22 - 3 - 74 

U 
74638 


B /71275 


16 . 00 ( 1 ) 


“ Mutual Induction " 
(Silent) (8 inm ) ( U . K . ). 


P . E . 


22 - 3 - 74 


B /71274 


16 . 00 ( 1 ) 


74639 


" The Transformor" 

(Silent) (8 mm .) 
( U , K .) . 


P . E . 


22 - 3 - 74 


B /71273 


16 .00 (1) 


74640 


" The Kidney " (Silent) 
( Colour ) ( 8 mm ) 
(U . K .) 


P . E . 


B /71272 


" Human Skin " (Si 
lent) (8 mm ). ( U . K .). 


16 .00 ( 1 ) 


22 - 3 - 74 
U 
74641 

+ 
22 - 3 - 74 


P . E . 


B /71271 


16 . 00 (1) 


74642 


" Electo Magnolic 
Induction " (Silent) 
(8 mm .) ( U . K .). 


P . E . 


22 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71443 


74643 


" Warmth of Your 
Handy " (Malaya 
lam ( 16 min . ) (USSR ). 


856 .00 (8 ) USSR Consulate Central Documentary 

Genoral, 42 -Nepoanca Film Studio , 
Rd., Bombay-6 , 


22 - 3 -74 


U 


B / 71551 


30 .48 (1 ) 


74644 


" The IIappy Family " 
(Hindi) ( Colour) ( 35 
mm . ) 


F . B , Productions, F . B . Productions , 
Film Centre , 68 Tai - Tilm Centre , 68 
deo Road , Bombay Tardeo Road , Bom 
34 . 

bay - 34 . 


22 - 3 - 74 


B /71550 


30 48 (1) 


Do . 


" The trip " ( Hindi) 

(Colour ) (35 mm .) 


Do. 


74645 


22 - 3 - 75 


U 


B / 71549 


“ The Recovery " (Hin 
di) ( Colour) (35 mm .) 


30 - 48 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


74646 


22- 3 - 74 


1 / 71548 


30 . 48 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


" Little Champ " (Hin 
di) (Colour ) ( 35 mm .) 


74647 


22 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71435 


74648 


- The Oberoi Shor . 
ping Centre " (Eng. . 
lish ) (Colour ) (35 inm .) 


30 . 48 (1) Shri S . Sukhlev, Unit- 

ted Filul Arts , 14 - 
Rock House Worli 
Hill, Bombay - 18 . 


Shri S . Sukhdev , 
United Film Arts , 
Bombay - 18 . 


22 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71481 


B /71602 


B /70214 


" Managenront By Ob 742 - 19 ( 3 ) 

Do. 

Do . 

74649 
jectives" (English ) 

P . E . 
( Colour ). 

22 - 3 - 74 

U 
" Trailer of Mun Jeele 82 -30(1 ) S . Mohinder, Talutis. Mohinder , Talati 74650 
Jag Joete " (Punjabi) 

Cottage , 7 - Bung- Collago , 7 -Bung- — 
( Colour ) ( 35 mm . ) low , Bombay -61. low , Bombay -ul . 22 - 3 -74 

U 
“ Heera " ( llindi) (Co - 3924 26 ( 16 ) Sultan Ahmed , 707 , Sultan Ahmed , 707, 74651 With triangle mark . 
lour) (35 mm ). 

Prasad Chambers , Prasad Chambers , - - 

Tata Rd., Bombay 4 . Tuta Road , Bombay - 4 . 22 -3 - 74 
Endorsement : 

Original length : 4004 - 20 m . 
This certificate is issued in lieu of " A " Cartificato No . 3199 dated 23 - 10 - 1973 grantcil by the Contral Board of Film 

Consors in accord unce with the orders No. 7 / 26 / 73 FC dated 2nd March , 1974 passed by Govornmont of India in 
the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the 

Cinematograph Act, 1952 ( 37 of 1952 ) . 
Cut No. Reel No. 
1 . I : Delete the roſoronce to the love of " Radha -Krishna " in comparison with the love of I aila Majnu and 

others . 

(Deleted sound only ) (Replaced ) with approved sound ). 
- MA 


- 


- 


PART III. Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2187 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


1 


2 


3 


2 . I Roduce to one or two the head - to -head hitting of Heera and the bald man . 1 .22 m . 

(Length retained : 1 . 22 m .). 
3. III : Reduce suitably the viow of Balwant caressig the baro leg ofGulabi and moving his fingers upward , 

( Shots blown up ) . 
(ii) Delete the dialogue of Balwant with Gulabi comparing her ( 4 vamp) with a sacred idol worthy of 

worshipping if kept in the tomplc . 

(Deleted sound only) (Replaced with approved sound). 
4 . VI : Reduce the whipping of old man by Balwant – 2 - 28 m . (Length retained : 4 . 27 m ). 
3. VI : Roduce suitably the head- to-head hitting between Heera and Balwant.– 4 . 70 m . (Length retained 

36 . 29 m ). 
6 . VIII : Reduco the whipping of pregnant Laheria by her father. — 2 - 13 m . (Longth retained : 6 - 40 m ) 

(Roplaced with approved shots : 0 . 15 m .). 
7 . X : Reduce the fight between Balwant s mon and Heera , particularly head -to - head hitting and hitting on 

tho stomach . - 12 -42 m . 

(Length retained : 42 -46 m .) . 
8 . XI : From tue mujra itom , reduce the quick bust jerking movement of the dancer when she moves towards 

Balwant, and delete the suggestion of kiss at the ond, - 1 .82 m . 

(Length retained : 3 .35 m .) (Replaced with approved shots : 163 m .). 
9 . XIII : ( 1 ) Roduce the fight betweon Jangoo and Hoora particularly where weapons aro used .- 1 

(Length retained : 12 . 20 m ) . 
( 2 ) Roduce the prominent view of blood during the fight between Balwant and Hoora and Others, 

kcoping the important dialogue portion, - 8 . 40 m . 

(Length retained : 0 -37 m .). 
10 . XIV : Reduco considerably the molestation scene of a village girl by Balwant s man , retaining only the 

important dialoguo portion towards. tho end .-- - 4 . 76 m . (Length retained : 3 . 72m .). 
11. XV : (a ) Delete the view of dacoit Balwant looking with pride on the blood stained koife in big hand after 

scratching Asha s arm . -- 100 m . 

(Replaced with approved shots : 1 .00 m .). 
(b ) Reduce in general the fight with weapong particularly prominent view of blood and head - to - head 

fight between Hoora and the bald man , — 15 . 19 m . ( Length retained 35 -98 m . ). 
12. XVI : (a ) Reduce the shot of Heera hitting Balwant with the gun - butt and reduce the number of shots fired 

by tho police on Balwant. - 5 . 31 m . 

(Longth retainod : 9 .75 m . (Replaced ) with approved ghots : 0 . 39 m .). 

(b ) Delete the view of Heera kicking on the dead body of Balwant. – 0 .61 m . 
The following additional cuts have been ordered by Government persuant to thier orders referred to abovo . 
1. U : Reduco one suggestive scene which is also not even essential to the plot-scene between Balwant and 

Gulabi where Balwant is talking and caressing the thighs. -- 14 -63 m . 

(Length retained : 16 .46 m . ) 
2. ( i) Some of the violencebe toned down . 
( ii ) Reduce violence in the scene relating to beating of Lahoria by her 

6 .81 m . 
father (Length rotained : 9 .14 m .). 
( iii ) Reduco violence in the scene depicting the death of the father 

(Length rotaired : 23 . 17 m ). 
3 . VI : Spoken " Puranc Reeti Riwaj ko Bharat Sarkar Bhi Nahi Badal Sakti from this sentence word 

" Bharat Sarkar " may be changed . (Replaced with approved words) . 
Tho validity of " U " Certificate will expiro with the date of expiry of the superceded “ A ” certificato 
No. 3199 of 23-10 - 1973 , viz : 22nd of October, 1973, 

Length of deletions : 83 .11 m . 
Length of Approved replacement : 3 : 17 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3924 . 26 m . in 16 Reels , 

U 
“ Trailer of Chor Ma 91 .50 (1) N . N . Sippy Produc- N . N . Sippy , H . U . F . 74692 
chaye Shor" (Hindi) 

tions, 4 - B Naaz Buil 
(Colour ) (36 mm . ). ding, Lamington Rd . 

23 - 3 - 74 
Bombay- 4 . 


B /71652 


A 


B /71082 “ Do Aankhen ” (Hin - 3728 -60 (14 ) Gulshan Bahl, N . C. Gulshan Bahl, Bom - 3221 With triangle mark . 
di) ( Colour) (35 mm ). 

Films, 191, Kurla bay -69 . 
Road Andheri ( E ) 

19 - 3 - 74 
Bombay - 69 , 
Endorsement 

Original length : 3780 . 10 m . 
Cut No. Rcel No . 
1 . II : In the picturisation of the song " Ladki unnin se sattarki, , . . ... . " delete suggestive close ups of 

breasts and midriff , as also shots of Ajay trying to remove bresiers of a girl and their other indecorous 
shots . - 2 . 94 m . (Replaced with approved shots : 2 . 94 m . ). 

- - 
7 - - 369GT/75 


- - 


. - - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


LUUL 


2188 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [ PART III - SEC , 4 


- 


- 


- - - 


- -- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- 


- 
2 


- - 

3 


6 


6 


- 


- 


- 


2 . III : Reduco the modus operandi of looting of railway wagons by retaining only a few suggestive shots 

for continuity . - 5 .68 m , 

Length rotained : 2 : 09 m . ) . 
3 . IV ; Reduco Vijay hitting the accomplico of criminals at tho police station , by keeping only a suggestion - 

2 . 78 m . (Deleted completely ) . 
4 . V ; 

Delete the underlined words from thc following dialogues : 
Pandit : " Tun ek goli khayega , lumhare muan Ko bhi bachha ho jayega ” Pandit : Goli andar baccha 
bahas ” Sahukar : Hathodi. . . . . . . . . . ? 
Pandit : Are bhai, thokanckelive " (and repetition ) Sahukar : Thokanckuliye . . . . . , ? (Replaced with 

approved words) 
5 . VIII : In the soquộnce of police raid on Ajay s don , delete all the gruesome shots including shots of polico 

men being killed and another police officer being manhandled - 9 . 92 m . 
6 . XII : In tho sequence of lighting in tho car, reduce considerably shots of strangulation of Ajay and Ajay 

pressing the neck of a gangster and the nock of Ajay being pressed with window glass and reduce 

gruesome shots . : 14 . 02 (Length retaincd : 7 . 92 m ). 
7. XV : Reduce drastically the fight between Ajay and Vijay in tho templo, deleting shots of strangulation 

shots of using temple equipments such as bells and dcep for hitting ono another and dashing of the 
head on prayer stone. 19 . 10 m . 
(Length retained : 10 . 36 m .) . 

Length of deletions 54 .44 m . 
Length of approved replacement : 2 .94 m . 

Actual longih of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3728 . 60 m . 
Endorsement under rule 34 : 

B / 71469 

Film : " Twice As Good " (English ) 
U - Cert. No, 74312 of 4 - 2 - 1974 . 

This certificate is also valid for Telugu version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificato was endorsed on 18th March , 1974 . 
B /68758 

Film : " For Tho High Seas" (English ) 
U - Cert . No . 72239 of 28 - 3 . 1973 

Deletod various shots : 42 . 00 m . Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 185 .00 m . This 

certificate was endorsed on 18th March , 1974 , 
B / 70999 

Film : " Grahan " ( Hindi) (35 min ) . 
U -Cert . No. 74153 of 29 - 12 - 1973. 
Reel No. Recl No . 

Reel No. 
I. : Deleted yarious shots : 9 - 14 m . IV : Deleted various shots :53 . 95 m . VIIT : Deloted various shots : 7 . 01 m . 
II : Deleted various shots 100 - 28 m V : Deleted various shots 63 . 46 

X : Deleted various shots : 12 - 80 m . 
III : Deleted various shots 57 . 99 m . VII : Deleted various shots : 11 . 58 m . XII : Deleted various shots : 39 - 32 m . 


Longth of delotions : 355 .45 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will bo : 2974 .55 m . 
Reel No. 10 , 11 and 12 aro printed in monochrome, 
The words superimposed on the last shot " the beginning of Acceptance" Are changed to " THĘ END ” 
Reel No. 1 : Script and Direction credited to Shri M . Prabhat . 

This certificato was endorsed on 19th March 1974 . 
B /71606 - 10 
Film : “ Pure And Gentlo " (English ) 
U -Cert. No, 74443 of 4 - 3 - 1974 . 

This certificato is also valid for Telugu , Malayalam Kannada , Bengali and Hindį versions of the film in colour . 

The length of the film remains unchanged . This certificato was endorsed on 20th March , 1974 . 
B /71622 -7 

Film ; " Pura Pani Bharpur Munafa (Marathi) 
U - Cert. No . 74360 of 14 - 2 -1974 , 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi, Telugu, Bengali, Kannad and Gujarati vorsions of tho film in Colour. The 

Jength of the film remains unchanged . This certificatc was endorsed on 20th March , 1974 . 
B / 71114 

Film : " Amir Khusro ” (Eoglish ) 

U -Cert. No . 74252 of 23 - 1 - 1974 . 
Correction : 

The length of tho fim on the face of the certificate may bo read as 313 . 00 m . instead of 329 . 00 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 20th March , 1974 . 
Film : " Monoy That Matters " (English ) 

U -Cort, 73717 of 31 - 10 - 1973 , 
Correction ; 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 308 . 00m , instead of 305 . 00m , 
This certificate was endorsed on 20th March , 1974 , 


2189 


- 


- - 


- 


PART III — SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) 

= - = - - = - - = - = - = - = - = = - = = - 
1 2 34 

5 

6 

7 


- 


B /71020 
Film : “ Homage To The Sons of India " 

U -Cert. No . 74159 of 31- 12 - 1973 . 
Corrections : 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 202 meters instead of 243 . 84 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 31st March , 1974 . 
B / 70987 
Film : " The Firo" (No dialogue of Commcntary ) 
U -Cert. No . 74149 of 29 - 12 - 1973 . 

Commentary is added , Film is in Hindi language now . Length of the film remains unchanged . This certificate 

was endorsed on 21st March , 1974 . 
B /71295 
Film : " Saath Kuchli Na Jayega " (Hindi) 

U -Cert. No. 71737 of 20 - 1 - 1973 . 
This certificate is also valid for English version of the film . The length of the film remains unchanged . This 

certificate was endorsed on 23rd March , 1974 , 
B /69752 
Film : " Sahkar Ne Sathware " (Gujarati) 
U - Cert. No. 72974 of 3 -8 - 1973 . 

Deleted various shots : 8 . 00 m . Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 296 . 00 m . 
This certificate was endorsed on 23rd March , 1974 . 


WEEK ENDING 23RD MARCH , 1974 

CALCUTTA 


210 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Chez M . Marc chag 

gal ( Frunch ) (Colo 
ur) 16mm - France . 


Cultural conngcllor 
Franch Embassy , 
New Delhi 


Agonce Francise D 
Images 


73386 

- 
19 - 3 - 74 


P . E . 


C /7715 


230 .00 (1) 


Do 


Films Dela Pleiado 


U 
73387 


La Direction D Ac 
tours Par Jean Reno 
ir (French ) (Colour ) 
16 mm - France . 


19 - 3 - 74 


C /7716 


100 -00 (1 ) 


Do 


Filmns Paul Grimault 


73388 


La Diamant (No dia 
toguc . Song or Com 
mentary ) (Colour) 16 
mm -Franco . 


19 - 3 - 74 


C /7717 


90 .00 (1) 


U 
73389 


Do 


Do 


Une Bombc Par Hasa 
rd (No dialogue song 
or Commentary (Co 
lour) 16 mm - France 


19 - 3 - 74 


U 


C /7719 


570 -00 (1) 


DO 


Films Caravello S . A . 


73390 


Les Temps Retrouves 
( English (Colour) 
16mm -Franco , 


P . E . 


19 - 3 - 74 


U 


C /7981 


-73391 


Thakavat- ki- Rukavat 
(Part No. 1 Ghora 
gadi Bedi) (Hindi) 
( Colour ) 35 mm 
India , 


Calcutta Filmlet Ad - Aloke Nath Bagchi 
Vertising 109 , Bidhan 
Sarani, Calcutta - 4 


23 - 3 - 74 


C / 7982 


79 .25(1) 


Do 


U 
73392 


Thakavat -ki- Ruka 

yat (Part No , 11 
Sonali Bagh Bidi 
(Assamese ) (Colour) 


Do 


23 - 3 - 74 


C /7983 


76 - 20 (1) 


U 
73393 


Do 


Thakavat ki- Ruka 
vat (Part No. III 
Sonari 545 Bidi) 
(Hindi) ( Colour) 


23 - 3 - 74 


U 


C / 7988 


Batik (English ) 35 moi 

India , 


Smt. Nupur Mitra _ maga 


Nupur Mitra 


30 . 48 ( 1 ) Bagusroc Films 102 , Smt. 

S . P . Mukherjecc 
Road , Cal- 26 


73394 


23- 3 - 74 


C/7989 


New Earth (English ) 

(Partly Colour) 35 
mm - India . 


624 8412) GRA Film 72 

Gacha Road , 

19 


U 
73395 

- 
23 - 3 - 74 


47, Irrigation & Water- 
Cal ways Dept. Govt . - 

of West Bengal, 
Writers Buildings , 
Calcutti - 1 


P . E . 


941, 


2190 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) ( Part III - SEC . 4 


PG = - 


2 


5 


6 


7 


MADRAS 


U 


M /8477 


Narakasura Vadho 
(Kannada ) 35 mm . 
B & W . India . 


3947 16 (15) Kiran Pictures, Ban - Kiran Pictures, Ban - 
galore . 

galore . 


67475 


18 - 3 - 74 

U 
67476 


M /8479 


Yeradukanasu (Kun - 
nad ) (Colour ) 35 
India , 


4218 - 73 (17 ) Anupam 

galore. 


Movies , Ban - Anupam 

Bangalore . 


Movies, 


18 - 3 - 74 

U 
67477 


M /8485 


Trailer of " Thiruttu 

Valli ( Tamil ) 35 
mm . B & W . India , 


94 -50 ( 1 ) Navadoya Art Mo - Navodaya Art Mo 
vies, Madras 

vics , Madras 


18 - 3 - 74 


M /8486 


Pancha Thanthram 3980 . 10 (15) Sree Murugalaya, Shri E .K . Thiyagara - 67478 
(Malayalam ) 35 min . 

Madras. jan , Madras 

With cuts . 
B & W . India , 

18 - 3 - 74 
Endorsement on cert . No. 67478 -U dc. 18 -3 -74 issued to the film Pancha Thanthram (Malayalam ) 35mm B & W 
Length appliod 3993 - 20 Metres . 
Cuts 
1. Reel 2 - Delete closc - range shot of the police official s deal body on motor 
cycle with blood scen dripping. 

0 - 91 
2 . Reel 3 — Delete the cabaret dancer s mentioning of Bombay . (Sound only ). — 
3 . Recl11 - Reduce Julio being given electric shocks to only once . 

2 . 14 
4 . Reel 15 — Reduce considerably the fighting scene in the den . 

10 .05 


Mts . 


Total : 


13 - 10 


Actual length of the film is 3980 . 10 Metres in 15 Reels. 


M / 8478 


67479 


With cuts 


21 - 3 - 74 


Rahasya Raatri (Mala - 3960 - 24 ( 15) Sri Sai Productions, Shri R . S. Srinivasa , 
yalam ) 35 mm . B & W 

Madras. 

Madras , 
India . 

Endorsement on cort . No . 67479 - U , dated 21st March 1974 issued to the 
film Rahasya Raatri (Malayalam ) , 
Length applied 4009. 00 Metres . 
Cuts 
1 Reel- 3 - Bahadur in girl s costume, without upper cloth to be reducod ,deleting 

all indecent actions of Bahadur (Retained 60 . 96 ). 
2 . Reel - 9 - Delete sound of Kiss . ( Sound only ) 
3. Reel- 11 - Delete reference to todily sbop in the song , sung by Başi as a Sadhu 

(Sound only replaced words approved . ) 


Mts . 


48 . 76 


Total : 


48 - 76 


M /8481 


M /8491 


Films, 


Actual length of the film will be 3960 - 24 Metres in 15 Reels . 

U 
Kanmani Raja ( Tamil) 3994 .09 ( 15) Muthuvel Movies , Muthuvel Movies, 67480 
35nim B & W . India 

Madras Madras 

21- 3 - 74 

U 
Bhaktha Prahlada 4547 . 00 ( 19 ) Rajoswar Films, Rajeswari 

67481 
(Kannada) ( Colour ) 

Madras 

Madras 
35min . India 

21 - 3 - 74 

U 
Maadi Madidavaru 3360 -40 ( 12) Malcnad Theatres , Malonad Theatres , 67482 
(Kannada ) 35 mm . Sagar , Karnataka Sagar, Karnataka , — 

With -cuts . 
B . & W . India . 

22 -3 - 74 
Endorsement on cert No . 67482 - U dt, 22nd March 1974 issued to film Madi Madidavaru (Kannada ). 
Length applied 339040 Mts . 
Cuts. 

Mts , 
1. Reel 7 - Reduce to a flash ,whipping of the old man by a Zamidar. (Retained 
1 . 52 ), 

3 . 40 
2. Reel- 11 - Delete names of all border towns Nipani, Hubli otc . (Sound only ) 


M /8392 


Total : 


3 - 04 


Actual length will be 3357 : 34 Mts. in 12 Rccls . 

- - - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


PART NI _ SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2191 


= 


= 


= 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - - - - 


1 


5 


U 


M /8496 


91 . 13 ( 1 ) 


M . S . Pictures , Mad - M .S . Pictures, 


Mad - 67483 


Trailer of cthi- Lak 
shmi ( Tamil) 35mm 
B & W . India 


ras . 


ras . 


22 - 3 - 74 


WEEK ENDING 30TH MARCH , 1974 , 


BOMBAY 


HU 


B / 71631 


" The New Giſt of Co 
mmunication " (En 
glish ) (35mm ) 


P. E . 


319 .00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt Films Division , Govt. 74653 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 -Peddar --- 
Road , Bombay - 26 Road , Bombay 26 25 - 3 - 74 

U 
287 - 00 ( 1 ) Do . 

74654 


B / 71597 


" Putting The House 

In Order " ( English ) 
(35mm . ) 


Not = P . E . 


25 - 3 - 74 

U 
74655 


B /71598 


" Save A Life " ( Eng - 
jish ) ( 35mm ) 


323 .00 (1) 


Do . 


P . E . 


25- 3- 74 

U 
74656 


B /71635 


422 -00 ( 2 ) 


Do . 


“ When Dream Comes 

Truo " alias secing is 
Believing (English ) 
35 m . m . 


P . E . 


25 - 3 - 74 


B / 71629 


Featured 


420 -00 (2 ) 


" Futuro 
( English ) 


Canvas 


Do . 


U 
74657 


Canvas " 
(35mm .) 


420-00(2) 


Do . 


P . E . 


25 - 3 - 74 

U 
74658 


B /71451 


" Moscow Revicw No . 
2 " (Hindi) (Colour ) 
(35mm ) (USSR ) 


279 .00 (1 ) USSSR Consulato Central Documentary 

General, 42 Nepean - Film Studio 
seu Road , Bombay 


25 - 3 - 74 


B /71450 


Do . 


U 
74659 


" Moscow Revicw No. 
4" (Hindi) ( Colour) 
(35mm . ) (USSR ) 


279 -00 ( 1) USSR Consulato Gene 

ral, 42 -Nepcanscu 
Road , Bombay -6 , 


25 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71557 
59 


B /71344 


" Fuiny Fellow From 986 -0009 ) 

Do . 

Maxim Gorky Film 74660 Valid for Cannada , 
Fifth " B (Russian 

Studio , 

- Marathi & Bengali 
commentary ( 16mm .) 

25 - 3 - 74 Versions.) 
(USSR . ) 

U 
" Do Challane" 3814 -63 ( 16 ) Apollo International, Joginder . 

74661 with triangle mark , 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 

3 - Mamta , 183, 
(35mm .) Waterfold Rd , Bandra , 

25 - 3 - 74 
Bombay - 50 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3911 - 80 m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1 II : Reduce cosiderably the sequence of revelry in Seth Dhaniram s house , deleting particularly the 

following shots : 
(i) Pouring of wine on a girl s leg and a man licking it-3 .05, (ii ) a girl carcasing the legs of a man 

in dhoti -0 -58m . 
( ii ) A man passing his logs through the parted legs of a girl- 0 .91 m , (iv ) Reduce the shots of cru 

shed bread and bread being crushed under the fect of the dancing couples - 1 -44 m . (Length 

retained : 1 : 22 m .) 
(v ) Reduce the shot showing a girl with several men within indecent gestures .- 1 - 56m . (Deleted 

completely) . 
2 V : In tho duel song sequence : (i) delete the shot (s) in which Aruna rubs her bosom on Raka when 

he is lying on the ground - 1 - 59 m . (Replaced : 1 . 59 m .) 

( ii ) delete the shots of suggestion of kiss between Rana and Asha - 0 . 39m . 
3 . VI : Reduce tho ight in the Restaurant between Raka and Rana and the goondas deleting gruçsome 

shots. — 7 . 92 m . (Length retained : 16 - 46 m . ) 
4 . VII : Reduce the fight in the Ganja smoker s den deleting gruesome shots , — 10 .06 m . ( Longth retained : 

18 . 90 m .) 
5 . X : Doleto tho underlined remark of Pandit s to one another : " Kamre mein band ho, aur shaadi ho 

jai chabi kho Jal. ek hi baat hai na 2 - 00 m . 
6 . XI : Reduco the fight deleting gruesome shots . — 1 ·22 m . (Length rotained : 2 -44 m . ) 
7 . XIII : Reduce tho considorably the fight between Raka and Rana deleting gruesome shots . — 15 -24 m . 

( Length rotaincd : 2438 m .) 


2192 
- - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [PART III — Sec. 4 

- - - - - -- - 

- - - - - - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


1 


4 


6 


8 . XV : ( ) Reduce the number and duration of inter cuts showing molestation of and attempt at Farida 
& XVI 

by Abdul during the fight taking out shots whero Abdul in directly above Farida lying on her 

back . - - 20 . 59 m . (Length retained : 16 . 76 m .) 
( ii ) Reduce the fight between Dhaniram s hirclings on the one hand and Raka and Rana on the other 

deleting gruesomo shots . — 29 . 09 m . (length retained : 90 . 22 m .) 
( iii ) Also delete the following undorlined dialogue of Abdul adressed to Raka with reference to 

his a intention to rape Farida . 

" Aaj main tere saumne teri bahen ki abroo se kheloonga" 3 . 12 m . 
Length of dclctions : 98 . 76 m . 
Length of replacement : 1 . 59 m . 
Actual length of the film after tho aforcsuid alterations will be : 3814 - 63 m . in 16 Reels . 


B / 71634 


B /71666 


B /71621 


" Phillipg" (Hindi) 

15 . 24 ( 1 ) Kalp , B - 1-B2 Samruddhi Kalp , B - 1 - B2 Samruddhi U 
( 35mm .) 

Housing Society , Bha - Houding Sociсty , Bha - 74662 
yani Shankar Road , vani Shankar, Road , - - - 
Cross Lano , Dadar, Cross Lano , Dadar, 25 -3 - 74 
Bombay -28. Bombay - 28 , 

U 
" Flowers All Day" 23 -87(1) F . B . Productions, Film F . B . Productions, 74663 
(English ( ( Colour) 

Centre , 68 , Tardeo Bombay - 34 . 
- (35mm .) Road , Bombay -34 . 

25- 3 -74 
" Lakhon Ki Pasand " 

Durga Klote Produ . Durga Khote Produ . U 
Mainn (Hindi) 30 . 48 tions, India House , toins, India House , 74664 
( Colour ) (35 mm . ) 

( 1 ) 

First floor , Fort, First floor , Fort 

Street, Bombay - 1. Street , Bombay -l . 25 -3 -74 
" Vah Vijay" (Hindi ) 29 .86 ( 1) Film Media , 47 -Lax- Mr. Jyoti G . Thakur, U 
(35mm . ) 

mi lnsurajice Bldg., Film Media , Bom - 74665 
Sir P . M . Rd , Bom bay - 1 . 
bay -l. 

25 - 3 - 74 
" Rang Mo Aayei” 30 . 48 ( 1) 

-do . 

-do 

U 
(Hindi) (Colour ) (35mm .) 

74666 
25 - 3 - 74 

U 
A New Nanc In Air British Airways , Yul BOAC . 

74667 
Travel " (English ) 

can Losurance Bldg ., 
(colour) (35mm .) ( U . K . ) Churchgate, Bom 

25 - 3 -74 
bay- 40020 , 


B /71667 


B /71612 


XXL) DIILIAI1WYS , 


B /71644 


U 


B /71639 


" A Tip For A Trip " 
( English ) ( Colour ) 
( 35 mm ) . 


Not P . E . 


B /71601 


" Naviawanon Ka 
Naach " (Hindi) 
(Colour ) ( 35 mm .), 


544 .07 ( 2 ) Tho Director General The Director General 75668 

of Information & Pub - of Information & - 
lic Relation , Govt , of Public Relation , Govt . 25 - 3 - 74 
Maharashtra , ofMaharashtra . 

U 
15 - 29 ( 1) Sohrab Boga , M /s Sohrab Boga , M /s , 74669 

Nishan Motion Pic - Nishan Motion Pic - — 
tures , Vasant Vihar , tures, Vasant Vihar, 25 - 3 -74 
8 -Curmaichel Road , 8 -Carmaichel Road , 
Bombay -400026 . Bombay -400026 , 

U 
68 .58 ( 1 ) Omprakash Mislira , Omprakash Mishra , 74670 

3368 , Govind Ruiji 3368 , Govind Raiji -- - 
Ka Rasta, Jaipur -i . Ka Rasta , Jaipur- 1. 25- 3 - 74 

U 
551 -98 ( 2 ) , Kanwar Shorcy, 27 , Shorey Documenatary 74671 

M . J. Building , Ch . Films, 
Chowk , Delhi-6 . 

25 - 3 - 74 


B /71668 


" Dk Path Do Kuaj " 
(Hindi) (Colour) (35 
mm .). 


P . E . 


B /71661 


P . E . 


" Ujlay Phool" (Grow 

ing of Improved 
Cotton 

Sood " 
(Hindi) (35 mm .). 


B /73573 


U 
74672 

– With trianglo Mark , 
25 - 3 - 74 


" Bazar Band Karo " 3668 26 ( 15 ) B . R . I. Arts Universal, B . R . Ishara , Trilok 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

Trilok Niwas, B . Niwas B - Block , 
(35 mm . ). 

Block , Ambedkar Ambedkar Road 
Road , Palli, Bandra , Pali , Bandra , 
Bombay -50 . 

Bombay -50 . 
Endorsement 

Original Length .-- 3713 :07 m . 
Delete the flash -back scene of love making betwcon Komal and Desai . . , 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be .--- 3668 . 26 m , in 15 reels, 


44 .81m . 


B /71669 


74673 


" Mahitichitra No . 
181" (Gujarati ) (35 
mm .). 


289 - 56 ( 1) Director of Infor- Director of ? Infor 

mation , Govt. of nation , Govt. of - 
Gujarat. 

Gujarat, Sachiyalaya , 
Ahmedabad - 15 . 


27 - 3 - 74 


PART III — SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
- - = - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - -- - - -- - - 
5 

**** 


2193 
- - 


- - 


7 


B /71700 


" Indian News Roviow 
No . 1328 " ( 35 m . m .). 


U 
212 . 00 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , 24 - 74674 (Valid for English , 
of India , 24 -Peddar Peddar Road , Bom - - - 

Hindi, Marathi, 
Road , Bombay - 26 . bay - 26 . 

27 - 3 - 74 Gujarati, Tamil , 

Telugu , Kannada , 
Malayalam , Pun 
jabi, Kashmiri, 
Urdu & Sindhi 
vorsions) 


B /71699 " Indian Nows Review 299 . 00 ( 1 ) Do . 

Do. 

74675 ( Valid for English , 
No. 1328 " (Eastern 

- - Hindi, Bengali , 
Edition ) (35 mm . ). 

27 - 3 -74 Assamese, & Oriya , 

versions .). 

U 
B / 71643 " Alingan " (Hindi) 4035 - 86 (16 ) Jasmine Films, 305 , P . P . Javeri, Jasmino 74676 
(Colour ) (35 min . ) . Yusuf Mohotally Road , Films, Bombay- 3 . 

- With triangle mark . 
Bombay - 3 , India . 

27 - 3 - 74 
Endorsement, 

Original Length . -- 4048 66 m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 

Metres 
1. XII . In the rape scene, deloto theshot of caressing of Reeta s noack with lips . 

2 . 15 m 
2 . XVI : Delete the indecent dialogue and visuals of Rceta s step father when he 

says : " Usko kali se phool kisne banaya , maino, vah kya khushbu anyco 
badanso 

6 - 20 m , 
3 . XVI : Reduce the fight between Aslivini and Roeta s step father, in particular 

deleting Ashvini hanging the head against the carth as also hard hitting shots . 4 . 45 m . 

(Deleted completely ) . 
Length of deletions. - 12 . 80 m . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be. — 4035 •86 m . in 16 reels . 


B /71615 


U 
74677 


" Trailer of Dharmendra 
Plays Pocketmar " 
(Hindi) ( Colour ) 
( 35mm .) 


95 -10 (1) Cine Mandir, 313 Air Joginder Singh Luthra 

Conditioned Market & Ramesh Lakhan 
Tardoo , Bombay - 34 . pal. 


27 -3 -74 


U 
74678 


B / 71679 


" Beat the Heat" ( En 
glish ) (Colour ) (35mm 


30 .48 (1 ) K . D . Master , 212 - Globe Productions, 

Schcherazadem Colaba 
Bombay - 5 . 


27- 3 - 74 


U 


B /71702 


" A Two -Way Process " 
(English ) (35mm .) 


P . E . 


262 . 00 (1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt, 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 , Road , Bombay - 26 . 


74679 
- 
28 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71661 


301 .00 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


74680 


" Lila Aur Arvind " 
(Hindi) ( 35mm . ) 


P . E . 


28 - 3 - 74 


U 


B / 71721 


38 .00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


76481 


P . E . 


" Violence What Prico 
Who Pays 7 No. 1" 
(No . Conimontary , 
Music & effects only 
(35min . ) 


28- 3- 74 


B /71701 


569 .00 (2 ) 


U 
74682 


" Lakshadwoop ” ( Eng 
lish ) (Col.) (35mm . ) 


Do. 


Do. 


P .E . 


29- 3 - 74 

U 
74683 


B /71617 


1819 


" Skylab - Outpost In 
Space " (English ) 
( Colour( USA .) 


U . S . Information 
Agency . 


P . E . 


United States Infor- 
mation Sorvico 4 -New 
Marino Lines, 
Bombay - 20 . 


29 - 3 - 74 


U 


B / 71486 


74684 


P. E . 


“ Poor Little Lacchi" 
( English ) (Colour ) 
( 35mm .) 


283 .00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar -- 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bonibay - 26 . 


29 - 3 -74 

U 
74685 


B /71628 


280 . 00 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


P . E . 


" Highroad of Adven 
ture " 

( English ) 
(35mm .) 


29 - 3 - 74 


2194 
- - -- - = 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III - SEC . 4 
- _ _ 

RES 

= = 

= = = 


- 


-- 


- - 


- - = - 


4 


B /71654 


523 .00 ( 2) 


P . E . 


" Saga Of Shipping " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
( 35mm .) 


Film Division , Govt. Film Division , Govt. 74686 
of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar - - - 
Road , Bombay -26 . Road , Bombay -26 29 - 3- 74 

U 
Do. 

Do . 

74687 


B /71672 


533 .00 (2) 


" Dr. Gustav Husak 

Visits India " (Eng 
lish ) ( 35mm .) 


29 - 3 - 74 

U 
74688 


B / 71670 


" Kal Aaj Aur Kal" 
(Gujarati ) (35mm .) 


P .E . 


236 . 22 ( 1) Jupiter Films, 9 / 6 Air 

Conditioned Market 
Tardeo , Bombay - 34 . 


Jaswant Singh Gupta 
and R . P . Mehta , – 
Bombay -34 . 


29 - 3 - 74 

U 
74689 


B /71663 


“ Trailer of Chori 
Chori" ( Hindi) ( Col 
our) (35mm .) 


92 .05(1) K . P . K . Movies , Kewal P. Kashyap, 

224 -Famous Cino 224 -Famous Cine - 
Building Mahalaxmi, Building , Mahalaxmi 
Bombay - 11 , 

Bombay - 11 . 


29 - 3 - 74 


B /71714 


" Nothing Like Leather 
(English ) ( 35mm . ) 


B /71603 


30 .48 ( 1) Mohan Kau , C /o K . & V . Industrics 74690 

Rauki Effects Sefyice Commission Erla 
51 : 52 The Nation Road , Bombay - 56 . 29 - 3 - 74 
Shorgco P . Ltd . 
Mogd Lane, Sita 
ladevi Templo Road , 
Bombay - 16 . 

U 
30 .48 ( 1) H . H . Jagwani,Adver- H . H . Jagwani, Adver- 74691 

tising Films, Jyoti tising Films Jyoti -- 
Studios, Keddedy Studios, Koddedy 29 -3 - 74 
Bridge, Bombay -7. Bridge, Bombay-7 . 

U 
30 -48 (1 ) Mr. Zafar Hai, Cinerad Mr, Zafar Hai, Cinerad 74692 (Valid for Hindi, 

Communications, Ks. Communications, Ks- - - - - Bengali, Tamil, 
homa Bhavan , 37 , homa Bhavan , 34 29 - 3 -74 Telugu & Kannada 
New Marino Lincs , New Marino Lincs, 

versions.) 
Bombay - 20 . 

Bombay - 20 . 


- - 


" Simco Hair Fixer " 
(Punjabi partly in 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) 


- 


B /71645 


" The Prizo " (English ) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 


U 


B / 71671 


British 
Council. 


Productivity 


74693 


" Dispute " (English ) 
(16mm . ) (U . K .) 


P . F . 


199 . 95 ( 1 ) Hindustan Aeronau 

tics Ltd . , New Ka - 
mani Chambers , Ni 
col Road , Ballard 
Estate, Bombay - 1 . 


29 - 3 - 74 


B /71581-88 


“ Around The Soviet 
Union No. 95 . " 
(16mm . ) (USSR ) 


111 .00( 1) USSR Consulate Central Documentary 

General, Cultural Film Studio . 
Section , Bombay -6 . 


74694 (Valid for Tamil, 

Hindi, Marathi 
29 - 3 - 74 Telugu , Gujarati , 

Punjabi, Kannada , 
& Malayalam 

versions .) 
U 
74695 (Valid for Gujarati , 

Telugu , Malayalam 
29 - 3 - 74 & 

Kannada 
versions.) 


237 . 00 (2 ) 


B /71560 -63 “ Soviet Army No. 18 * 

( 16mm . ) (USSR ) 


Do . 


Do . 


U 


B /71488 -91 " Soviet Army No. 19 " 

( 16mm .) (USSR ) 


239 .00 ( 2 ) USSR Consulate Central Documentary 

Gencral, Bombay - 6 . Film Studio . 


74696 


29 - 3 -74 


(Valid for English , 
Hindi, Bengali 
& Malayalam 
versions.) 


U 


B /71492- 95 " Choosing Vocation ” 

( 16mm .) (USSR ) 


222 .00 (2) 


Do . 


DO. 


Do. 


74697 
29 -3 - 74 


(Valid for English , 
Hindi, Gujarati, 
Bengali, Telugu , 
Versions . ) 


U 
74698 


B / 71462 


PC , 


" The Yellow Trall " 
( English ) (Colour) 
(16mm . ) ( W , 
Ġorinany ) 


400 . 00 (1 ) Hocchst Pharmaccu - Farbwerke Hocchst AG 

tical P , B , No. 11123 , 
Bombay - 20 . 


29 - 3 - 74 


B /71614 


" Rana Pratap " (Hindi 
( 16mm . ) 


P . E . 


P.E . 


279 . 19 (3 ) National Educational National Educational 

& Information Films & Information Films — 
Ltd ., National House Ltd ., National House 
Bombay - 1 . 

Bombay - 1 . 


U 
74699 
29 - 3 -74 


PARI III - SEC , 4 ] ISIE GAZUITO INDIA DECLMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAUAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 

- - - - 


+ 


# 


2 


2195 
- - -- - - 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


-- 


- - 


3 


- - 


4 


6 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


B /71633 


U 
74700 


333 :44 ( 1 ) 


P . E . 


" Kal Ki Baat" ( Hindi) 
(35mm . ) 


National Educational National Ebucational 
& Information films . & Information film ; 
Ltd . , National House Ltd ., National House — 
Bombaya1 

Bombay - 1 


29 - 3 - 74 

U 
74701 


1 / 71673 


P . E . 


" Patal Ganga " (Hindi) 
( Colour ) ( 16ımı, ) 


222 : 50 ( 1 ) UNICEF , 11 Jorbagh UNICET , 11 Jorbagh , 
New Delhi. 

New Delhi. 


29 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71620 


74702 


" Science Report 148 
B " (Englisli) ( 16mm ) 
(USA ). 


149 . 26 ( 1 ) United States Informa - Robert Fosici , 

tion Service Bombay, 


29 - 3 - 74 


B / 71619 


U 
74703 


151 .49 ( 1 ) 


Do 


Do . 


Do . 


P . E . 


" Science Report 148 

A " (English ) ( 16ınm , 
(USA ). 


29 - 3 -74 


B / 71618 


U 
74704 


303 - 28 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Audio Productions. 


P . E . 


" Erts -Earth Resour 
ces Technology Są 
tellite" (English ) 
( Colour) ( 161m . ) 
(USA ) 


29- 3 - 74 


B /71722 


451 10 ( 2 ) 


U 
74705 


Not P . F . 


" New Glimpses of 
Delhi" (Hindi) (Col 
lour) (35mm . ) 


P . T . Jani, Shrikrishna P . T . Jani. Bombay-4 . 
Boarding House , 
Room No . 12 - 1217 , 
Charni Road , Bombay .- 4 


29 - 3 - 74 


B /71763 


U 
74706 


P . E . 


" The Treacherous 
Man " (English ) 
(Colour) ( 35mm . ) 


346 . 00 (2 ) Films Division , Govt. Film Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peudar - 
Road , Bombay -26 . Road , Bombay- 26 . 


29 - 3 - 74 

U 
74707 


B /71720 


“ The Victory Story " 

(English ) ( 35mm . ) 


3075 00 ( 11) 


Do. 


Do . 


P . E . 


29 - 3 -74 


U 
74709 


B / 71692 


" Trailer of My Friend " 

(Hindi) (Colour ) 
( 35 mm .) 


83 -82 ( 1 ) Poonam Pictures Pvt. Poonambhai Shalı & 

Ltd Time Star House Narayanbhai Patel. 
29th Rd., Pali Naka, Time Star House , 
Bandra , Bombay- 50 . 29th Rd. Pali Naka , 

Bandra , Bombay - 50 . 


30 - 3 - 74 


Endorsement Under Rule 34 . 

B / 70646 
Film : " Manoranjan " (Hindi) (Colour) 
A -Cert. No . 3211 of 11- 1 - 1974 . 
Reel XVI: Deleted various shots : 42 -67 in . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid delctions will be : 4536 .65 m ). 

This certificate was endorsed on 25th March , 1974 . 
Endorsement 
B /71685 - 91 
Film ; " The Crucial Ycars " (English ) 
U - Cert , No . 74298 of 1 - 2 - 1974 . 
This certificate is also valid for Marathi Gujarati , Bengali, Kannada . Telugu , Tamil and Hindi versions of the film 

in colour. 
The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificato was endorsed on 28th March , 1975 . 
B /63548 
Flim : " Sapna " (Hindi) ( Colour) 
U - Cert . No. 63893 of 21-8 - 1971 . 

Deleted various shots : 10 -62m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 264 .00 n . 

This certificato was endorsed on 28th March , 1974 . 
B /69566 -68 
Film : " Jumbo Ala Rc" (Marathi) 
U -Cert . No. 72912 of 21 -7 - 1973 . 

This certificate is , also yalid for English version of the film in colour, The length of the film remains unchanged . 
This cortificate was endorsed on 29th March , 1974 . 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


8 — 36961/ 75 


2196 


"THE GAZETTC OF INDI 4 , DECI:MBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAITAYANA 22 , 1897 ) (PART III - SEÇ . 4 


- 


- 


- 


22 


07 


C / 7980 


WEEK ENDING 30TH MARCH , 1974 . 
CALCUTTA 

U 
Ustad -Ka-Ustad (Hi- 91 .44 ( 1 ) Screen & Publicities Screen & Publicities . 73396 With traingle mark , 
ndi) ( Colour) (35mm .) 

6 - A , Saklat Place , 
(India . ) Cal- 13 . 

26 - 3 -74 
Endorsement 
Original Length _ - 91 -44 metres 

Reduce strangulation of the men to the barest minimun — 1 -$ 2 . 
(Length retained 2 -74 neres ) 
Strangulation scene has been replaced with approved shots of samo length -No change in length . 
Sd - for Chairman , 
Central Board of Film Censors , 25-3 - 74 . 


U 


C / 7993 


73397 


Paschim Banga Sar 
karer Sangbad Chitra 
No . 55 (March 1974 ) 
( Bengali ) (35mm .) 
( India . ) 


309 :37( 1 ) Iliren Bose Production Dept. of Information 

13 / 11A , Swinhoe & Public Relations, 
lane, Cal- 19 . 

Govt. of West Bengal 
Calcutta . 1 writers 
Building. 


28 -3 - 74 


U 


C /7994 


Satadhara Samriddhi 309 - 37 ( 1 ) Basusrec Films 102 , Director, Vaternary 73398 
(Bengali ) (35mm 

S . P . Mukherjee Service West Bengal, - 
( India .) Road , Cul- 26 . 

28 - 3 - 74 
PARTICULAR OF FILMS CERTIFIED DURING THE WEEK ENDING SATURDAY 30 - 3-74 

MADRAS 


U 


M /8487 


with cuts 


Paddalu Marali 4373 -72 (17) Subhalakshmi Prodns., SubhulakshmiPrcdns. , 67484 
( Telugu ) 35mni. 

Madras. 

Madras . 
B & W India 

25 - 3 - 74 
Endorsement on Cort. No . 67484- U dt. 25th March 1974 - issued to film Poddlu Marali ( Telugu ) 

Length applied . 4704 -39 Metres, 
Cuts : 

Metres 
1 . Reel 12 - Delete all shots of the young boy Chandram drinking liquor from the 
bottlo and getting intoxicated by the game. 

9 . 14 
2 . Reel 12 - Delete tho ontire brothol scono in tho bungalow of Gangaram whero 

girls are handed ovor to each customer and also mothers breast - fceding 
their childreti, forcibly ncparated and being taken from the customers , and 
treating them in a cruel manner . 

99 . 66 
3 . Reel 12 - Delete the suggostive action of Gangaram to his assistant Swamito 

liquidato a boy and later his sentei cc " Aa guddi vesham vesinavádu kooda " 
and other words uke " Kallu safa " ctc . 

23 . 15 


Total 


131 .95 


Total voluntary deletion . 198 - 72 Mts . 
Actual length will be 4373 .72 Mts . In 17 Reels . 


M /8493 


U 
67485 


" Yauvanım (Malaya - 
lam ) 35mm . B & W 
India . 


3657 .60 ( 14 ) Neola Productions , Noola Productions , 
Trivandrum . 

Trivandrum . 


25 - 3 -74 


M /8464 


67486 


Pathirayum Pak 1 3836 - 15 ( 14 ) Cholavoor Productions Shri T , Kunhikandan , 
Velicha yum ( M : llyalanı, 

Madras . 

Madras . 
35mm . B & VV 
India . 


25 - 3 -74 


U 


M /8482 


Doorgd Sumangali 
( Tamil) 35mm . 
B & W . India , 


4426 .60 ( 16 ) Vigalakshi Combines , Shri N . S . Rajendran , 
Madrils . 

Madras. 


67487 


26 - 3 - 74 

U 
67488 


M / 8495 


38 . 10 ( 1 ) 


The Magician ( Tamil ) 
(Colour ) 35nım , India 


Visual 
Madrs. 


Cnterprises , Vigual 

Madras . 


Enterprises , 


26 - 3 - 74 


U 


M / 8490 


Durga (Malayalam ) 4179 -75( 15 ) Udaya Picturos ( P) Udaya Pictures ( P) 67489 With cuts . 
(Colour ) 35mni. 

Ltd ., Alleppey , 

Ltd ., Alleppey . 
India . 

26 - 3 - 74 
Endorsement on Cert . No. 67489 - U ilated 26 -3 -74 issued to the film Durga (Malayalam ) (Colour ) 35mn . 

Length applied 4194 .64 Metros. 
Cuts. 

Mts . 
1 . Reel 13 % Reduce fight to the last point wlien father soparatos Mohan and Ramu . The 
action of Mohan strangligg Ramu to be eliminated . 

10 -65 


PART III — SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2197 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


4 


- - 


- - - 


(1) 


(3) 


(4 ) 


(5 ) 


SVG - - 


1 -21 


2. Reel 15 - Reduce fihgt in the jocp to a flash , 
3 . Reel 15 – Delete accomplice in the jeep struggling with Radha , in his cffort to 

Overpower hor . 
4. Reel 15 – Delete cloge - shot of Mohan upon Radhu . 


1 . 21 
1 .82 


Total 


14 .89 


Actual length of the film will be 4179 - 75 Metre s in 15 Rrelis . 


M / 8480 


Mis . 


" Thiludi ( Tamil ) 4549.74 (18), Shri M . Ş . Kasiviswa nathan , Shri M . S . Kasiviswanathan , 67490 with out 
35mm , B & W . India . 

Madras . 

Madras 

27 - 3 - 74 
Endorsement on cert . No. 67490 -0 dt, 27- 3 - 74 issued to tho film Thirudi ( Tamil) 35mm . B & W . 
Longth applied 4571 -64 Mts . 
Cuts : 

1 . Reel 2 - Delele Appakkar s dialogue " Naan Etlarpper Vochuppen , Patthuper 5 . 17 

Vachuppen " . 
2 . Reel 10 -- Delete action of a thief who distracts Shanker s attention by throwing 1 .52 

currency notos on the floor of the bank countor . 
3. Reel 13 - - Delete words of Karuppiah to Shanker " Rathiri Vittadhai Pidikkaven 
dama ," 

5 .47 
4. Reel 15 - Delete Seenu s words to Shanker " Pendattiya Padukkiral.” 

0 . 60 


Total 


12 . 76 


Voluntary deletion 9 . 14 Mts , in Reel 11. 
Actual length 4549 . 74 Mtą, in 18 Reels . 


U 
67491 


M /8494 


Vellikkizhamui Vira - 
thain ? ( Tail) ( Col ) 
35mm . India , 


3983 50 (15 ) Dhandayuthapani 

Films, Madras . 


Shri M . M . A . Chinna 
Pp : Devar, Medras . 


28 -3- 74 


U 


M /8498 & 99 Major Brand Refnod 42 -67 ( 1 ) Shri Gnanandha En Shri Gnanandha En - 67492 
Oill ( Tamil & Mala 

terprisc , Madras, terprisc , Madras . 
yalam ) (Colour ) 35mm . 

28 - 3 - 74 
India , 

U 
M /8501 Trailor of Jasoos 79 .15 ( 1 ) Sooryoday Pictures , Sooryodya Pictures, 67493 
Ladki (Hindi) 

Mudras. 

Madras . 
35mm . B & W India 

28 - 3 - 74 

U 
M /8460 Chairman Chala - 4643 10 (18) Nirmala Enterprise , Shri L . Padmanabha 67494 With cuts. 
mayya ( Telugu ) 

Madras . 

Roddy , Madras. 
35mm . B & W India 

28- 3 -74 
Endorsoment on cert. No . 67494-U di , 28 -3- 74 issued to thc film Chairman Chalanayya 

( Telugu ) 35mm . B & W . 

Longth applied - 4691 17 Mis . 
Cuts . 

Mis. 
1 . Reel 1 - Recluce Ranga molesting a girl to a suggestion (Retained 12 - 19 ) 

6 - 39 
2 . Reel 1 - Delete teachor s gnentence ‘Medrasu Mukhya Mantriga Chegina Kamaraj 
Nadaremi chadivudani, 

8 . 52 
3 . Reel 1 - - From the fighting sceno, delete Chalamiah torturing Ranga , twisting a 
ladder round his neck . 

5 .47 
4. Reel 3 - Reduce Ranga whipping Chalamiah who is tied to a pillar. (Retajned 
2 . 74 ) 

5 . 17 
5. Reel 3 – From the Karnam s dialoguc , deleto the words " Poojarigari kooturu " , 

(Sound only - replaced approved words) . 
6 . Reel 6 - Delete Brahmam s dialogue to barber in the shaving saloon “ Minister ayi 

choodu , ade oppukuntundi" . (Sound only - replaced approved words.) 
7 . Reel 6 - Delete Arahman s sentence " Chopparu " regarding townfold not spcaking 
the truth . 

0 - 30 
8 . Reel 7 - Delete Brahmum saying " Varu Prajanaykud ;” . Em Prajanayaku , Inka ) 

noc Assombly Şamavesai Poorti Kalada ? " addressing a dog which is shown 

thore . 
9 . Recl 7 - Delete Brahmam , dialogue " Atma , inka nco Parliament Samavosam 
poorti Kalkda " asking the uss shown thcrc. 

12 . 19 
10 . Reel 9 – Delete Brahman s following sentonce to Kasturi " Gali kottalu andee " . 

" Enging vedi okkintundi noollu poyainantara " . " Nee gunde na talagadıı dindi" 
(Sound only - replaced approved words). 


2198 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


_ - - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 6 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 15 , 1897 ) [ PART III - SEC , 4 
- - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - * -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - 
(2) (3) (4 ) 

(5 ) 

(6) 

(7) 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - GG 


G 


G 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


1 . 21 


7 .61 
– 


1 . 21 


11. Reel 10 - Delete the jeep actually passing over a worker und Jagadish turning 

the doad body to a side with his log. (No objection to the dead body being shown ) 
12 . Recl 10 - Delete Jagadish telling the Colloctor " Podavallaku ideka jabbandee 

Prabhutyam vari sahayam ponda vachukuda ani parti yoduvalla illu valle tag 
alabo ttukuntunnaru ," 
13. Recl 12 – - Delete Parnakulu saying to Chalamayya Prajulaku tuln kooda lodu 

(Sound only - replaced approved words .) 
14 . Reel 17 – Delete Jagudish saying " Ye Raja kocya nayakidoo tana satruvuni pranalato 

vadatladu kuka " (Sound only _ replaced approved words .) 
15 . Reel 17 – From the lighting scono, dclotc a man being strangled with a garden scissors 

put to his neck . 
16 . Reel 2 – From the piculrisation of song , delete the following - Song 1 - Delete the 

shot of Ramosh with his head just under the bottom of Radha who is on the 
tree . Reduce the shot of both face to face on a swing to a flash , avoiding the 
vicws of their thighs opposite to each other . 
(4 . 86 mts . replaced shot of trec and clouds). 
Reel 9 - Song 3 (a ) Delete the close range shot of Kalpana having her breasts, 
before the song bogins (b ) Deleto tho posturo of Kalpana and the hero in a lip to 
lip kissing suggestion , 

(Replaced with fountuin and flowers. 3 -64 ). 
17 . Reel 13 --- From the picturisation of song 4 at the liquor shop , (a ) delete Kalpana 

passing hor hand downward over her breasts on " Na " ; (b ) Delete her vulgar breast 
movements on the song lings “ Deko Bulloda , and choosko doonavva ( first time) 
( c ) Kalpına s indecorous forward and backward naval jorks on " Esko bullodu " . 
(Replaced arrack shop and atmosphere shots 4 -25) . 


4 - 86 


3 -64 


4 .25 


M /8483 


Total 60 -82 
Total replacements 12 . 75 Mts . 
Actual length will be 4643 - 10Mts , in 18 Reels . 

U 
Did you ever see such 241 .40 ( 1 ) Animal Welfare Board , British Films Ltd ., UK 67495 
it thing in your life Madras . 

— 
( English )(Colour) 

29 - 3 -74 
16mm . UK . 
Adavi Dongalu 

4546 .69 ( 18 ) . Srikant Productions , Srikant Production U 
( Telugu ) 

67496 
( Colour) 

Macras , 

Madras. 
35m . India , 

29 - 3 - 74 


P . E , 


M / 8503 


Madras. 


U 


M /850i 


" Preserve Sight ( Tamil) 
35mm . B & W . India , 


PE 


213 . 36 ( 1) Shri R . M . Krishna - Dr. Joseph s Eye Hospital, 67497 
swany, Madras . Trichirapalli , 

29 - 3 - 74 


M /8504 


305 -00 ( 1 ) 


PE 


" Eniha Nalui Kapom 
( Tamil) 35mm . B & W 
India . 


Tnc Directorate of 
Information & Public 
Relations, Madras . 


Tho Directorate of 67498 
Information and Pub - - 
lic Relations Madras . 29 - 3 - 74 


M /894 , 5 


305 .00 (1) 


-co 


- do 


67499 


PE 


" Visai Thelippan 
( Tamil) 35mm . 
B & W . India , 


29 -3- 74 


U 


M / 8502 


M /849 ) 


- - - - 


Trailor of Chanclanal 121 .92( 1 ) Sridhar Combines, Sridhar Combines , 

67500 
( Telugu ) 35mm . 

Madras . 

Madrus. 
B & W . India , 

29 - 3 - 74 

U 
Jothi- Lakshmi ( Tamil) 3344 - 25 (14 ) R . M . S . Pictures , R . M . S . Pictures , 

67501 With cuts . 
( Tamil) 35mm , B & W 

Madras. 

Madras, 
India . 

30 - 3 - 74 
Endorsoment on cert. No. 67501 - U dt. 30 - 3-74 issued to the film Joghi Lakshmi ( Tamil ) 35mm . B & W . 
Longth applied . 3344 - 25 Motros. 

Mts. 
Reel 1 - - In the sung beginning " Ennai Paaru Roja – Then Vadiyum Vanna Roja . . . " , 

dolete ( Indhi Jodi Madiyil Kudiyeru , Nittam Neeyum Noolidai Mel Nindrudu , 
and (b ) Then irudhun Nannairen Nooradada . (Sound only - approved replaced 
toxt ) 

Actual length of the film remains 3344 .25 Metres in 14 Reels Total 
- - - - - 

- 


Cuts . 


1 


2199 


PART III - Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 

- - I - - - -- "* 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


-- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


4 


5 


6 


7 


- - - - 


- - - - - 


- 


Particulars of kilms Certified or Refused Certification by the commal Boud of Film Sensors 

During the week Ending 6th April , 1974 


BOMBIN 


B /71655 - 60 


" I ve Tried T10 All " 

( 35mm .) ( Colour ) 


22 .86 (1 ) Ms Trio Films, Jyoti M /a Trio Films Jyoti 74709 

Studio , Kennedy Studios , Kennedy - . - . 
Bridge Bombay - 7. Bridge Bomb. y - 7 , 2 -4 - 74 


( Valid for English , 
Hindi, Bengali and 
Assamicsc , Tomil 
and Talugu 
evisions. ) 


B /71653 


" O Kinaw .js Occini 
Expo" 75 " (Eng.) 
(Col ) ( 16mm .) ( la 
pan ) 


225 . 78 ( 1 ) Ji pan Air Lines Co . M . Akiyama of Tomo - 74710 

Lid . 86 , Vir -Nariman hiro Gajken Co . Ltd ., — 
Road , Bombay - 20 . 

2 - 4 - 74 


U 
74711 


B / 71673 


(Hindi ) 


808 00 ( 3 ) 


" Jhumroo " 
(35mm . ) 


P . E . 


Children s Film So - Children s Film So - 
ciety. of India , ciety . Bonbuy -18 . 
Tirgorami House , 
Bombay - 18 . 


2 - 4 - 74 


B /71674 


465 . 22 ( 2 ) 


U 
74712 


Do . 


Do. 


P . E . 


- Pandit Bhola Nath " 
(Hindi) ( Colour ) 
( 35mm .) 


2 - 4 - 74 


B /71756 


" Violence , What Pri 
ce ? Who Pays ?" (No . 
2 ) ( No . Commen 
tary ), (Music Effects 
only ) (35mm .) 


53 .00 (1 ) Films Division , Govt, Films Division , Govt. 74713 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar - - 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 2 - 4 -74 


U 
74714 


B /71735 


301 . 00 ( 1) 


DO . 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1329 " ( Southern 
Edition ) ( 35mm .) 


- 


3 - 4 - 74 


(Valid for English , 

Hindi, Tamil, 
Telugu , Kannada , 

& Malayalam 
versions.) 


U 


B / 71754 


212 .00 ( 1 ) 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1329 " ( 35mm .) 


Do . 


Do . 


74715 

- 
3 - 4 - 1974 


(Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, Assa 
mese , Oriya , 
Punjabi, Bengali, 
Kashiniri, & Urdu 
versions. ) 


U 


B /71677 


74716 


Not, P . E . 


" Cold Rodders " (Eng 
lish ) (Colour ) ( 16mm ) 
( Canada ) 


175 .00 (1) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada , Govt. of - 
Chanakyapuri, New Canada . 
Delhi- 21. 


4 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71645 


58 .00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do. 


74717 


Not, P . E . 


“ Charley Squash 
Goes To Town " ( E1 
glish ) (Colour) (16 
mm .) (Canada ) 


4 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71658 


125 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


74718 


P . E . 


" Doodlc Film " ( En 
glish ) (Colour ) 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 


4 - 4 - 74 

U 


B /71713 


Do . 


Do . 


74719 


Do. 


PE , 


“ Mcdium is The Mc 
ssage You Know " 
( English ), (Colour ) 
( 16ının .) (Canada ) 


generan you know 


264-00(1) 


4 - 4 - 74 


U 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


2200 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART II — Sec . 4 


3 


56 


B /71705 


P . E . 


" For You Mr, Boll" 
( English ) (Col. ) (16mm ) 
(Canada ) 


B /71712 


" Mechanical Knico " 
(Eng. ) ( Colour) 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 


183 - 00 (1 ) Canadian High Comm - National Film Board 74720 

ission , Shanti Path , of Canada Govt. of - - - 
Chanakyapuri Canada , 

4 - 4 - 74 
New Delhi-21 

U 
248 . 00 (1) Do. 

Do . 

74721 

- 
4 -4 - 74 

U 
269 -61 (3 ) Comel, Sandhurst Encyclopaedia Brita - 74722 
Bridge U . P . Road , nica Edu . Corpora 

- - - 
Bombay - 7. tion , 

4 - 4 - 74 


P . E . 


B /71744 


P . C . 


" Fundamentals of 
Boundary Layors " 
( English ) (16mm .) 
(USA ) 


B /71748 


364 24 (3) 


Do. 


74723 


- PE, 


4 - 4 - 74 


" Low Reynolds La 
grangian Descrip 
tions in Fluid Mo 
chanics " ( English ) 
(Colour) ( 16mm .) 
(USA ) 


U 
74724 


1 /71746 


319 .43 (3 ) 


Do. 


P .E . 


" Proloct Discovery ; 

A Demonstration 
in Education " ( Eng.) 
(Col.) ( 16mm .) 
(USA ) 


4 -4 -74 


B /71745 


342 -90 (3) 


U 
74725 


Do . 


" Cavitation " ( English ) 
(Colour ) ( 16mm .) 
(USA .) 


- 


P . E . 


B /71711 


" Louisbourg " ( Eng 
llsh ) (Colour ) ( 16mm . 
(Canada ) 


230 -00 ( 1) Canadian High Con - 

mission , Shanti Path . 
Chanakyapuri, New 
Dolhi- 21, 


4 - 4 - 74 

U 
National Film Board 74726 
of Canada , Govt. of - - - 
Canada . 

4 - 4 - 74 


- 


P . E . 


U 


B / 71707 


159 .00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


74727 


" High Steol" (English ) 
(Colour) ( 16mm . ) 
(Canada ) 


P . E . 


4 - 4 - 74 


U 


B / 71709 


255 . 00 (1 ) 


74728 


" Keepers of Wild 

Life (English ) (Co 
lour) ( 16mm .) (Canada ) 


P . E . 


4 - 4 - 74 

U 


B /71706 


319 .00 (1) 


74729 


“ Hero is Canada " 
( English ) (Colour) 
(16mm . ) (Canada .) 


P . E . 


B /71704 


" Eskimo- Fight for 
Lifo " ( Eng .) ( Colour) 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 


579 
- 
0123 


579 - 00 (2 ) 


P . E . 


4 -4 - 74 
| Մ 
74730 

- - 
4 - 4 - 74 

U 
74731 

- 
4 - 4 - 74 

U 
74732 


B /71676 


153 . 00 ( 1 ) 


" Christmas At Mooso 
Factory " (Eng .) ( Col) 
( 16mm . (Canada ) 


P . E , 


B /71710 


501 . 00 (1 ) 


P . E . 


" Ladies & Gentlemen 
Mr. Leonard Cohon " 
( Eng .) ( 16mm . ) (Ca 
nada ). 


44 - 74 


TT 


B /71674 


169 - 00 (1) 


“ Adelaide Villago" 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 


P . E . 


74733 

- 
4 - 4 -74 

U 
74734 

- 
5 - 4 -74 


B / 71732 


574 . 00 ( 2 ) 


" Shocr Sport" (En . 
glish ) (Colour ) 
( 16mm .) ( Canada ) 


P . E . 


U 


B /71676 


626 . 00 (2 ) 


74735 


“ Buster Keation Rides 
Again ” (English ) ( 16 
inm . ) (Canada ) 


Not P . E . 


5 - 4 - 74 


Part III - - Sec , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2201 


- - - - - 4 - - - - - - - - - - - - 


SEILAH 
m 


e m 


u 


+ 4 - de- 

Out- 


to 


1 


6 


U 


B /71727 


75 . 00 ( 1) 


P . E . 


" Owl And Tho Lem 
ming -An Eskimo 
Logend " ( English ) 
( Col.) (16 min .) 
(Canada ) 


Cenadian High Commt- 
ssion , Shanti Path , 
Chanakyapuri New 
Dellii - 21 . 


National Film 74736 
Board of Canada , - - 
Govt. of Canada . 5 - 4 -74 


B /71730 


71 .00 ( 1) 


Do . 


74737 


P . E . 


" Redovolopment In 
Windsor Ontario " 
(Eng.) (Col. (16nim .) 
( Canada ) 


5 - 4 - 74 


U 


1 / 71708 


184-00(1) 


Do. 


74738 


Not P , E . 


" Re- devolopmont, 180 
1s Max " ( English ) 
( Colour ) ( 16mm .) 
(Canadá ). 


5 - 74 


U 
74739 


B /71675 


317 - 00 (1) 


Do , 


Not P . E . 


" Assignment North 
west" ( English ) 
(Colour ) (16mm . ) 
(Canada ) 


5 -4 - 74 


U 
74740 


B /71719 


69 . 00 (1) 


Do . 


P . E . 


" La Poulette Grise 
(Chanson De Chez 
Nous" ( Fronch ) 
(Colour ) (16mm .) 
(Canada ) 


5 -4 - 74 


B /71728 


152.0 


1 $ 2 .00 ( 1 ) 


Do, 


" Quostion of Immil 
nity " (English ) 
(Colour ) (16mm .) 
(Canada ) 


De 


74741 


P . E . 


5 -4 - 74 


U 


B /71079 


74742 


" Glimpses of Kashmir 
( English ) (Colour ) 
( 16mm .) 


P , E . With 
triangle mark . 


6 - 4 - 74 


121 . 92 ( 1 ) National Education National Education 

& Information Films & Information Films 
Ltd ., National House Ltd . , Bombay- 1. 
Tulloch Road , 
Apollo Bundor , 
Bombay -1 . 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 121 . 92m . 

Delete the incorrect map of Indiu showing Laccadiv and Andaman islands. — 2 -40m . 
(Replaced with approved map : 2 . 40 m .) 
Length of the film remains unchanged . I. e . 121 . 92 m . 


U 


B /71729 


74743 


P . E . 


" Question of Television 

Vollonco " (English ) 
(Colour) (16mm ) 
( Canada ). 


633 .00 ( 1) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada Govt . of - 
Chanakyapuri, New Canada . 
Delhi-21. 


6 - 4 - 74 


B /71765 


U 
74744 


" Mushahira " (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35mụn . ) 


30 .48 ( 1 ) Durga Khoto Produc - Durga Khoto Produc 

tions , India Holgo, tiong . India House , 
Opp . GPO . Bombay- 1 opp . GPO Bombay- 1 . 


6 - 4 - 74 
U 
74745 


B / 71369 


" Sugandhi Katta " 
(Marathi) (35mm . ) 


4114 - 88 (15 ) Chitra Mauli , 125 / 1 Ram Kadam , Yagin S . 

Prabhat Nagar , Fatelal, Poona -4 , 
Poona - 40 


6 - 4 - 74 


The 


Endorsement Under Rule 34. 

B /71681 
Film : " So Good To Grow Up With " (English ) 
U -Cert. No. 72533 of 13 -5 - 1973 . 
This certificato is also valid for Telugu , Kannada , Tamil and Malayalam vorsicns of the film in colour. 

longth of the film remains unchanged , 
This certificato was endorsed on 2nd April, 1974 . 
B /71257 
Tilm : " Badla " (Hindi) (Colour) 

A -Cert . No. 3218 of 7 - 3 - 1974 
Reel No . 17 : Deleted various shots : 62 .00 neters . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3710 . 00 m 
This certificato was ondorsed on 3rd April, 1974 . 


2202 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


2 


s 


- - 


- 


- 


-- - - - 


THL , VEITE OF INDIA , DECI MBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAUAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III - Sec . 4 
- - - - - 

- - - - - - -- - - - - = - - -- - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - 

-- -- - - - 
3 

4 5 

— — - - - - - - - 
1 /71725 -6 , B /71766 -67 
Illmı; " Unche Ghar Ki Shobha " (Hiadi) 
U -Cent. No . 74440 of 4 -3 - 1974 . 

This contificate is also valid for Gujarati, Marathi, Kinnada and Telugu versions of the film in colour, The 
length of the film iemains unchanged . 

This certificato was ondorsed on 3rd April , 1974 , 
B / 71726 
Tilm : “ Pure And Gentle " (Leg.) 
U -Cort . No, 74443 of 4 - 3 - 1974 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificate wels endorsed on 4th Apul, 1974 . 
B /71613 
Film : " Peera Hure, Achha Kare " (Hindi) 
U -Cert. No . 74625 of 22 -3 - 1974 . 

Corrections : The flm is in Black and White and not in colour ag stated in the obverse of the certificate . 

This certificate was ondoined on 4th Apul, 1974 . 
B /71305 
Film : " Chor Machayo Slior" (Hindi) 
U - Cert . No. 74499 of 18- 3 - 1974 

Reel No, IV Deleted various shots ; 1 .83m . 
Reel No . XV : Deleted various shots : 5 .490 , 
XV : added various shots : 7 32m . 
Length of deletions : 7 - 32 m . 
Length of additions : 7 . 32 m . 
Length of the filni remains unchanged i.e . 3996 .53 in , in 15 reels , 

This cortificate was endorsed on 4th April, 1974 . 
B /71769 
Film : “ Path of Progress" (English ) 
U -Cert . No. 73203 of 24 -8 - 1973 . 

This cortificte is also valid for Marathi version of the film in colour, The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificate was endorsed on 5th April, 1974 , 
B /71543 -47 
Film : “ Dure The Sun " (English ) 
U -Cert . No. 74497 of 18 -3 -1974 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil, Telugu , Bengali, Kannada and Malayalam versions of the film in colour. 
The longth of the film remains unchanged . 
This certificate was ondorsed on 5th April, 1974 . 


CALCUTTA 


C / 7728 


73399 


P . E . 


Culture Organotypi 
quc in - Vitro De Tu 
mears Malgnes Hu 
maines ( English ) (Co 
lour) 16mm - Franco 


268 -00 (1) Cultural Counsellor, Le Laboratoire D 

French Embassy , New Embcryologie Experi 
Delhi, 

inentale Du C . N , R . 
S . Et Du College Do 
France . 


1 - 4 - 74 


U 


C / 7733 


230 . 00 ( 1 ) 


10 . 


73400 


Semeiologie Des Affoc 
tions Do La Glando 
Mammaire (English ) 
( Colour ) ( Francc.) 


Societe D Informuţion 

Et De Recherche Par 
L Enseignement Medical, 


P . E . 


1 - 4 - 1974 


U 


C /7991 


73401 


Shangineo (Bengali ) 
(33mm . ( India ). 


3992 - 88 ( 15) Sonali Production Dinon Gupta , 

58 / 32A , Princo An 
vargha Road , Calcutta 45 . 


3 - 4 - 1974 


MADRAS 


U 


M /8343 


91 44(1) Mukesh Enterprises . 


Mukesh Enterprises . 


67502 


Trailor of Harekrishnu 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
(35mm . ( India ) . 


1 - 4 -74 


M /8472 


3298 - 15 (14 ) V. S. Productions, V. S. 
Mudras. 

Madras. 


Productions, 


‘Monagallu Moga gallu 
( Telugu ) ( 35min .) 
(B & W ) ( India .) 


With cuts . 


67053 
1 - 4 -74 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


-- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


PART III SEC . 41 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2203 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


- * * - 


- 


- 


1 


2 


4 


7 


LE 


Endorsement on cert. No , 67503-U dt. 1 -474 issued to the film Monagallu Mosagallu (Telugu ) 35mm . B & W 
Length applied . 3352 .00 Metres. 
Cuts. 

Metres . 
1. Reels 2 & 3 - Delete the shot in which Nagu and party shop off the hand of a 

vila gor and the leg of another in their first raid on the village . 
Deloto also the shot in which the man , whose leg wag cut off , 
19 reacting. (Retained 0 . 60 ). . 

0 . 91 
2 . Reel 3 - Reduce tho shot in which Balaramayya is shot on the chest 
and he falls down . (Retained 0 . 91) . . . . . 

0 . 91 
3. Reel 3 --Reduce the shooting spree in which ton of Nagu s men are shot 
dead . (Retained 2 :43 ). . . . . 

6 :39 

. 
4 . Reel 4 In the confrontation botwocn Nagu s gang and tho villagers, reduce 

the fight and shroting , dolcting gruesome shots . (Rotajned 2 . 13) . 2 . 43 
5 . Reel 5 - Delete the shots in which Nagu s horses run over Durgamma s 

palms after she is taken ciptive and thrown on the field . . . 2 . 74 
6 . Reel 6 - Delete the shots in which dead bodies aro seen hanging on tho 

walls. (Once when Ramu arrives in tho village and when one of 
tho bndles is removed ). . . . . . . . 

0 . 91 
7 . Reel 9 Roduce the fight between Nagu s gang and tho vlllu gers, deleting 

all gruogome shots including the shots in which a villager biding 
In a pit is dragged out, his hands held bohind and his head shaven . 
(Retainod 0 : 30 ). . . 

. . . . . 

0 .91 
8 . Reel 9 – In the subsequent fight between Nagu s men and Ranu s party , 

delete gruesome shots , including the once in which a dacoit s head 

is shaven by Ramu s men when they even spit on his head . , . 15 - 24 
9 . Reel 9 _ From the cabaret Item , delete the shots in which the female dancer 
makos indecorous gestures. . . . . . . . 

3 .04 
10. Reel 10 -- Reduce the fight between Nagu s gang and Ramu s party , 
deleting gruogomo shots. 

1 .21 
11. Reel 11 - -Reduce considerably the shots in which Ramu s men press the 

nock of Nagu s men , (guarding the snake pit ) with the boot and 
crush him to death , (Retained , 1 .82) . , , . . . 

6 -09 
12 . Reel 12 – Roduce the scene in which Durgamma s son la tortured in the snake pit 

(spocially deleting the shot taken from below in which four 
cobra are seen at the same time with the child in the middle .) 
(Retained 1 . 82 ) . 

0 . 91 
13 . Reel 12 – After Durgamma is rescurd , reduce the fight between Nagu s gung 
and Ramu s men , doleting gruesome shots . 

0 . 91 
14 . Reel 13 – Delete the shot in which one of Nagu s men s hands are twisted , 

1 . 52 
his tonguo Comçs out and ho falls doad . 
15 . Reel 13 – Reduce considerably the scene in which Nagu s men shoot Malla , 

when bullets pouring on his body , his rolling sidoways in agony 
and the ncar views of his blood smeared body . Reduce also tho 
shots in which his body is seen hanging from a tree branch . (Re 
tained 2 : 13 ) . . . . . 

3 .95 
. . . . . 


16 . Reel 14 - Reduce the fight between Nagu s gang and Ramu s party , 

particulary doleting gruosome shots including the once in which 
a man s hand and anothei s leg aro cut off . (Retained nil) . . 


16. Reel 14 Beatie en de 


. 


5 - 78 


TOTAL 


, 


, 


, 


, 


, 


53 -85 


Alctual length of the film is 3298 -15 Metres in 14 Reels. 


U 


M /8506 


67504 


" Tamilnadu Govt. 
Regl. Nows Bulletin 
113 ( Tamil ) ( 35mm .) 
( B & W ) (India .) 


305 . 00 ( 1) Tho Directorate of Tho Directorate of 

Information & Public Information & Public 
Rolutions, Madras. Relations, Madras . 


1 - 4 - 74 


With cuts . 


M /8500 

"Manushullo Devudu 
( Telugu ) (Partly 
( Coloured ) (35mm .) 

( India .) 
94369GI/ 75 


U 
5398 00 (19) Shri Bhaskara Chitra , Shri A . Pundarika - 67505 
Madras . kshayya , Madras , 

2 - 4 - 74 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


2204 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [ PART III — SEC . 4 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


Endorsement on cert. No. 67505 - U dt. 2- 4 - 74 issued to the film Manushullo Dovudu ( Telugu ) ( Part ly colour) . 
Length applied , 5412 . 00 Metres . 
Cuts . 

Motres. 
Reel 16 - - Reduce Murali molesting Scotha to a suggostion , doloting the shots 

of both struggling on bed and also the shots showing their intortwin 
od logs, otc . (Rotalnod 11 . 28 ) . 

. . . . 14 :00 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


14 . 00 


M /8471 


Actual length of film is 5398 - 00 Metres in 19 Recls . Colour portion is 422 .44 Mts . In reel No. 4 & 5 . 
The balanco of 4975 . 56 Metres is in Black & White. 

U 
Trailer of Monagallu 80 . 76 ( 1) V . S . Productions , V . S . Productions, 67506 
Mosagallu (Telugu ) 

Madras . 

Madras 
(35mm .) (B & W ) 

2 - 4 -74 
( India .) 


U 


M / 8 $ 11 


94 - 25 (1 ) Olympic 

Madras , 


Pictures 


Trailer of Hum Shak 
kal (Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm .) ( India ) 


Olympic 
Madras. 


Pictures , 


67507 


5 - 4 -74 


U 


M /8507 


Vani Rani ( Tamil) 3990 - 16 (15) Vljaya Productions, Vijaya Productions, 67508 With cuts . 
( Colour) (35mm .) 

Madras . 

Madras , 
( india .) 

5 - 4 - 74 
Endorseinont on cert, No. 67508 - U dt. 5 - 4 - 74 issued to the film VaniRant ( Tamil) (Colour ) 35mm . 
Length applied . 3993 -80 Metres. 
Cuis . 

Mts. 
1 . Reel 1 --- Delete dlalogue of doctor “ Pillai Pera Noram Kalam Illaya" . 3 04 
2 . Reel 10Delete the girl in swimming dress, her thighs etc . ( the shot 
through her legs . ). . . . . . . . . 

0 - 60 
Total . . . . . . . 3 .64 
Actual length of film will be 3990 - 16 Metres in Ree s . 

U 
Leelarani Iruthiya 93 -26(1 ) Chetana Enterprises , Chotana Enterprises, 67509 
thirai ( Tamil) 35mm 

Madras , 

Madras . 
( B & W ) (India ) 

5 - 4 . 74 

Α 
Geetha ( Tamil) 3672 . 22( 15) 

3301 
( 35num .) (B & W ) 
India ). 

5 - 4 - 74 
Particulars of Films certified or refused certification by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 13th April , 1974 

BOMBAY 


M /8510 


M /8509 


Do. 


Do 


Do . 


TT 


B/71487 


B /71487 


" Dost " (Hindi) ( Col.) 
( 35mm .) 


To in tine 


74746 


With triangle mark , 


4828 - 14 (17) Mr. Premnath Man - Mr. Premnath Map 

chanda , Hill View chanda , Hill Vicw 
No . 2 , 241 -Hill Rd., No . 2 , 241 - Hill Road , 
Bombay - 50 . 

Bombay - 50 . 


8 - 4 . 74 


Endorsemcet 
Original Length : 4857 . 06m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No . 
1. IV : In the drinking scene , delote the reference to morarjibhai whilo pointing towards Manay as a teetotaller. (Deleted 

sound only ). (Replaced with approved words). 
2 . VII : In the dialogue of Kajal delete the words " bastard and its repetition . (Deleted sound only) . 
3 . XI : In the scene of a Khandala hotel, delete the entire scene of an unmarried nude couplo in bed and their trying 

to put on some clothes . — 2 : 13m . 
4 . XIII : Reduce considerably beating of Gopi by birelings of monte - - 10 - 13m . (Length retained : 8 - 84m .) 
5 . XIV : Reduce the fight between Manav and Monto s gang , deleting gruesome shots. — 6 .17m . (Length retained . 21 - 64m .): 
6 . XVII : Reduce fight between Manav, Gopl, and gangsters and Kajal s father - 7 . 52m . (Length retained : 23 -47m .) 
7. XVII : Delete the suggestion of intentionally locking up the child in an fron safe — 5 - 10m . (Replaced with approved 

shots : 2 . 13m . ) 
Length of deletions : 31 .05m . 
length of approved replacement : 2 . 13m . 
Actual length of the film after the afiresaid aloerations will be : 4828 - 14m . In 17 reels , 


PART IISec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2205 


-- -- 


- -- - - - 


- 


- - - --- -- 


- - 


- 


- -- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


6 


7 


B /71718 


74747 


P . E . 


" Pinscroen " (English ) 

(Colour ) ( 16mm .) 
(Canada ) 


443 .00 ( 1 ) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada , Govt. of 
Chanakyapuri , New Canada . 
Delhi- 21. 


8 - 4 - 74 


U 


B / 71738 


163 .00 (1) 


163-00(1) 


Do. 


Do . 


74748 


Do , 


" Underground Movie" 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 16mm .)(Canada) 


P . E . 


8 -4 . 74 


U 


B / 71735 


118 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


74749 


P . E . 


* Sunny Munchy 

Crunchy Natural 
Food Shop " ( English ) 
( Colour ) ( 16mm .) 
( Canada ) 


8 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71662 


677 -57 (3) 


74750 


P . E . 


" Plant Nutrients 
Nitrogen Phos 
phorus Potassium " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) 


Jagdish Banerjee, 2 - Jagdish Banerjee, 2 - 
Bhavaneshwar Ter - Bhavaneshwar Tor 
race , Worli Nata , race , Worli, Naka, 
Bombay - 18 . 

Bombay - 18 . 


8 - 4 -74 


B /71736 


P . E . 


" Tilt " (English ) ( Col. ) 
( 16mm . )( Canada ) 


U 
219 -00 (1 ) Canadian High Com - National Film Board - 74751 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada , Govt. of - - 
Chanakyapuri, New Canada . 

8 - 4 - 74 
Delhi- 21. 

U 
101. 00 (1 ) 

Do . 

74752 


B / 71739 


Do . 


P . E . 


" What Is Lifo " (Eng .) 
(Colour ) ( 16mm . ) 
(Canada ) 


8 - 4 - 74 

U 
74753 


B / 71793 


" Self Reliance In 
Aeronautics" ( Eng .) 
( 35mm . ) 


609 58 ( 2 ) M , V . Krishnaswamy M . V . Krishnaswamy, 

68 -IV Main Road , Bombay- 3 . 
Bombay - 3 . 


P . E . 


8 - 4- 74 


U 


B /71760 


PE 


" Behind The Bread 
line " (Eng.) ( Colour ) 
(35mm .) 


794 -31( 3 ) Shri Gopal Ki Maha - Shri S. Sukhdev, United 74754 

resh General Mana - Film Arts , Bombay - 18 . - 
GOT , M / s United Fila 

9 - 4 - 74 
Arte , 14 Rock House , 
Worli, Hill, B bay - 18 . 


B /71751 


B /71353 


U 
" The Hare Krishna 350 -52 (3) International Society John Hesser, 

74755 nct P . E . 
People " ( English ) 

for Krishna Consci 
(Colour ) ( 16mm .) ousness, Juhu , Bom 

9 - 4 - 74 
(USA ) bay- 54 . 

U 
“ Pugli" ( Hindi) (Col.) 3387 . 70 ( 14 ) Asha Art Interational Yusuf Hasan . 

74756 with triangle mark . 
(35mm . ) 

5 - Tulsi Khar Pali 
Road , Bombay- 52 , 

9 - 4 - 74 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3516 -43m . 
Cut Reel 
No . No . 
1. I : (2 ) Delete prominent views of the thigh in a suggestive shot and indecent movement of the dancer Rajani in 

the song beginning with the words " Dhak Dhak Dhadko kya karoo re dil . . . ," 2 . 07m . (Roplaced with 

Approved shots ). 

(b ) Delete the vicw of kissing between Rajanj and Ramesh . - 1 . 78m . 
2 . 11 : ( a ) Delete tho kisses - 0 . 47m , 

(b ) Reduce drastically the scene of close proximity between Ramesh and Rajani, their hugging, embracing 

etc., behind the semi- transparent plastic curtajn . - 5 . 18m . (Length retained : 2 : 13m . ) 
3 . III : Reduce the torture and views of blood - smeared facc of Pagli (Gouri) and reduce the prominent views of the 

nudo painting in tho background. - 17 . 75m . (Length rotajned 26 . 21in .) 
4 . IV : Delete the abusive words " Saula ” “ Saale” wherever they appear in dialogues . (Deleted sound only.) 
$ . VII : Delete the abusive words " Saale " " Haramzade" " Idiot" and " Bastard " (Deleted sound only ). 
6 . IX : Reduce the fight between Raja and the goondas reducing the threatening thrusts of broken bottle and holding 

of broken bottle at the throat and prossing against spiked tree as also sccnc of strangling by craapers. 34 . 02m . 

( Length totfined : 40 : 50 ) 
7 . X : (a ) In the pondscene delete the sontence " Aa majha kar le " spoken by Gouri 1 . 28m . 

(b ) Reduce tho fight between Raja and Goondas reducing the strangling between branched trunks of trcos - - 

13 .87m . ( Length rętained : 33 · 23m .) 
- - - - - - 


2206 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III - SEC. 4 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - -- 


- - 


- 


1 


3 


5 


8 . XIII : Delete the views of scantily clad usic both in indecent dance movements from front and behind and when 

Ramesh tries to embrace her. — 19 . 88m . 
9 . XV : Reduce the fight between Ramesh and Raja in the ruins.. . 34 .50m . (Length retained : 47 .86m .) 

Longth of deletions : 130 -80m . 
Length of approved replacement : 2 . 07m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3387 . 70 m . In 14 Reels. 


U 


B /71803 


74757 


" Who Pays Tho Prico " 
(English ) (35mm . ) 


60 -00 ( 1)) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 -Poddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Bombay - 26 . 


9 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71804 


60 .00 (1) 


Do . 


Do 


74758 


Not P . E . 


" Violenco -What Price ? 
Who Pays ?" (No . 3) 
(No Commentary , 
music & effocts only ) 
( 35mm ) 


9 - 4 - 74 


U 
74759 


B /71775 


P . E . 


" Fstablishing Work 
Standard Sampling " 
( Eng .) (Col.) (16mm . ) 
(USA ). 


273 . 00 ( 2 ) AMA Education , Pyt. University of Califor 

Ltd . , Dr. D . N , Road , nia , Ext. Media . 
Bombay - 40001. 


10 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71805 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1330 " (35mm .) 


182 . 00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt . Films Division , Govt . 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay -26 . 


74760 

- 
10 - 4 - 74 


(Valid for English , 
Hindi, Tamil , Telugu , 

Tamil Kannada , 
Malayalam , Assa 
moso, Oriya , Pun 
jabi, Bengali, 
Kashmiri & Urdu 
Versions) . 


U 


B / 71806 


278 . 00 ( 1) 


Do , 


Do . 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1330 " ( W . E .) 
( 35mm . ) 


74761 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Gujarati, 
10 -4 - 74 Marathi & Sindhi 

versions). 


B /71811 


271 27 ( 1) 


74762 


" Fifth Five Year Plan 
of the State " (Urdu ) 
(35mm . ) 


Films & Photo Officer, Dir . of Information , 
Dept. of Information , Jammu & Kashmir 
Govt . of J . & K . 

Govt . 


104 74 


B / 71810 


“ News Reel No . 33 " 
(Urdu ) (35mm . ) 


310 - 23 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


74763 


10 -474 


U 
74764 


B /71458 


205 . 74 ( 1) 


“ Kisika Dar Nahin " 
(Hindi) ( 35mm . ) 


P . E . 


Topaz , Movics , 19 - Naina Thakur, Prop . 
Shivaji Park Bom - Topaz Movies. 
bay - 28 , 


10 - 4 - 74 


U 


B / 71790 


74765 


" Along The Roads of 

Lativiya " (English ) 
(35mm .) (USSR ) 


453 .00 (2 ) USSR Consulate Riga Film Studio . 

General, 42 -Nepoa . 
Пsea 

Road , 
Bombay - 6 . 


10 -4 - 74 


B / 71791 


210 -00 (2 ) 


Do, 


74766 


" After A Work Shift" 
( English ) (16mm . ) 
(USSR ) 


Georgian Popular 

Scionco & Documen 
tary Film Studio , 


10 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71792 


236 - 00 (2 ) 


Do . 


74767 


" Soviet Army No . 20 " 
( English ) ( 16mm .) 
(USSR ) 


Central Docum¢n 
tary Films Studio . 


10 - 4 - 74 

U 
74768 


B /71799 


“ Trailor of Aap Ki 
Kagain " (Hindi) 
(Colour ) ( 35mm . ) 


89 . 00 (1) Filmyug Pvt. Ltd ., Shri J. Om Prakash , 

Mayur, Tilak Road , Filmyug Pvt. Ltd ., 
Santacruz West Bombay -54 . 
Bombay - 54 . 


10 - 4 - 74 


U 
74769 


B /71785 


" Moscow Film Review 
No . 4 " (Marathi, 
Bengali, Malayalam ) 
( Colour ) ( 16mm .) 
(USSR ) 


112 . 00 ( 1) USSR Consulate 

Gencral 42 . Nopean . 
see Road , Bombay - 6 , 


Central Documentary 
Film Studio . 


10 - 4 - 74 


PART III — Sec, 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2207 


- - = = = = 


= 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


67 


B /71784 


" Around The Sovict 
Union No . 104 " 
( English ) (Colour ) 
(35mm ) (USSR ) 


B / 71773 


" Lacto Calamine Ki 
Bahar" (Hindi)(Col. ) 
( 35mm . ) 


278 .00 ( 1) USSR Consulate Centi al Documentary 74770 
Gcneral 42 

Films Studio , 
Neheansca Road , 

10 - 4 - 74 
Bombay -6 . 

U 
30 - 00(1) Kamla 
Sharma, Mrs . Kamla Sharma, 74771 
Widescreen . Widescreen . 

10 - 4 - 74 

U 
30 - 48 (1 ) M /Ą . Telovision Radio M /S. Television Radio 74772 

& Motion Pictures , & Motion Picturos , - - 
6 - A Rashmi Cas- Bombay - 6 . 

10 - 4 -74 
michal Road , Bom 
bay - 6 . 


B /71798 


" Rallimix " (Englislı ) 
(Colour ) (35 mm . ). 


B / 71665 


U 
74773 


" Trailor of Hamrabi" 

(Hindi) ( Colour ) 
(35 mm ), 


93 - 88( 1) Sagar Art Corporation , Subhash Sagar, Natraj 

Natraj Studios , Studios, Bombay -60 . 
Kurla Road , An 
dheri, Bombay -69 . 


11 - 4 - 74 


B /71669 


U 


74774 


With triangle mark . 


" Tr. of Gharibi Ha 

tao " (Hindi) (Co 
lous ) ( 35 mm .). 


64 - 12 ( 1) 4- V , Picturos Tuisi, R , K , Midha . 

30 , Road , Khar, 
Bombay- 52 . 


11 - 4 - 74 


Fndorsement 

Original Length : 65 . 23 m , 
1 . Doleto a reference by a Goonda " Kya gatha hua hadan hai tori babenka yaar Agar usko bhi saath laate to aaj ki raat chandani 

raat ho jaati " . - 3 . 55 m . (Replaced with approved shot : 7 . 32 m .). 
2 . Dolota complotoly the molestation of a woman by a man including tho opening of her cloli etc . : 7 .3 m , 

(Replacod with approved shot subject to tho following cut : 6 -40 m . ) 
Deleto tlo molestation of a girl by a man only koeping the word of the girl " Majn soch bhee nahin sakti thi ki tum itane gir jrobc " . 
3 . 96 m . 

Longth of doletione : 14 .83 m . 
Longth of approved replacement : 13 .72 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid will be ; 64. 12 m . 


3222 


With triangle mark . 


- 


11 - 4 - 74 


B /71600 “ Do Number Ke 3956 -28( 18 ) Mukul Enterprises , Ram Dayal & Diddos , 
Amoor " (Hindi) 

Ranjit Studios , Main Ranjit Studic Main 
(Colour) (35 mm .). 

Road , Dadar Bom - Road , Dadar Bom - 
bay - 14 . 

bay - 14 . 
Endorsement 

Original Length : 3974 . 28 m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 


1. VI : Dolete roforence o " Birla " being ablo to make temples and tcmples not being able to make Birja . (Delotod sound only ). 

(Replaced with approvod words). 
2. VII : Roducc the figlit between Ravi ard Pran s gang by deleting hard hitting shpis and kicks on the stomach and chine . — 1 .84 m . 

(Longth rtainod 40 . 54 m .), 
IX ; Įn the hotel dancc deleto the shot whore Hema puts her legs around the waist of Rabi. - 4 .05 m (Replaced with approved 

shots : 4 .05 m .) . 
XIII : During the song " Do number ke ameer . . . . ” dolote the shot of Ajit Prasad kissing his mistr€58 . - 1 - 21 m , (Roplaced with 

approved shots : 1 : 21 m .). 
5 . XIII ; Delote the last portion of tho dialogue botween two characters where the man presses his hand over tho hoad of and ther and 

says " Promise . ... ... " with indecont suggestion , - 0 . 50 m . 
6 . XV : Reduce the close up of Sunita s face and hand when she is borg raped by Pran including tho suggostivo shot of the hand 

oponing and showing the palm with blood . - 3 - 48 m . (Length retajnod 2 . 44 m . ). 
7 , XVI : Reduce drastically tho fight on roof top. - 12 - 19 m . (Length rotainod - 15 .06 m .). 
8 . XVII · The end of the film doos not show that a man who has amassod wealth by foulmeans suffer. As such the end may be suita 

bly modified . 
(Dolotod sound) (End has been modified by doloting some dialoguos and by repeating a stanza of a song beginning with 
tho word " A do number ko ameor " 

Length of deletions : 23 -26 m , 
Longth of approved replacement : 5 . 26 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will de : 3956 -28 m . in 17 roels , 


2208 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III — SEC . 4 


1 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


-- - - - - - - 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - -- - - 


* * 


* 


Endorsement under rule 34 

B /71369 
Film “ Sugandhi Katta " (Marathi) 
U - Coit . No , 74745 of 6 - 4 - 1974 , 

Corroctions : Tho longth of the film on tho face of the cortificatemay be road as 4238 : 55 # . jistoud of 4114 . 88 M . 

This cortificate was cndorsod on 8th April, 1974 , 
B /71771 

Film : “ Baat Tho Hoar " (English ) 
U -Cert . No. 74678 of 27 -3 - 1974 

This certificato is valid for Hindi vorsion of tho film in colour . Tho length of the film romajus unchanged , 

Thais certificate was ondorsed on 9th April, 1974 . 
B /71632 
Film " Whon Droam Comos Truo " (English ) 
U - Cert. No, 74656 of 25 -3 -1974 . 

The titlo of the alm on the faco of the cortificato may bo road as " Whon Dream Comos Truo alias Seeing Is Bollov 
ing " instead of “ Whon Droam Comos Truo " . 
Rool No . 1 : Doletod title " When Droam come tru0 – 300 m , Addod title " Sooing 18 Bolioving 3 .00 m . The length 

of the film remains unchangod . This certificate was ondorsed on 10th April, 1974 , 
B /71802 -2 
Film ; " Hero s Proof For You " (English ) 
U - Cort. No . 73241 of 1 - 9 - 1973. 

This cortificato is also valid for Kannada and Tolugu versions of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 
wichanged . 
This certificato was endorsed on 11th April, 1974 . 

CALCUTTA 


U 


C -7992 


Sodin Dujane (Ben - 

(35 mm ) ( India ). 


73402 


3988 -01 (15) Chalachitra Bharati Bibhuti Laha and Shib 

393 / A Block G Narayan Dutta . 
Now Aliporo Çal 
cutta - 53 . 


9 - 4 - 74 


Endorsement 

Original langth - 3, 988 -01 
Reel 6 : Deleto the words " Buro Shola " from 
Buro Shala orased - No change in length ). 


the djalogue of Arka Pratap roforring to his fathor (the word , 


U 


C - 7996 


Life of Buddha in Pro - 

COQ9 ( English ) ( 35 mm ) 
India 


239 27 (1) National Art Films Anupam Roy , 

Road No , 2 , Rajon 
dra Nagar , Patna- 16 


73403 

- - 
9 - 4 -74 


P . E . 


C -7997 


270 - 270 


Do , 


Do . 


Do. 


Tho Folk Art of Vara 

Dasi (English ) (33 
mm ) ( India ). 


IT 
73404 

- 
9 - 4 - 74 


P . E . 


U 


C - 7995 


73405 


Fuluthakurma Bengali 
( 33 mm ) ( India ). 


3624 -06(13) Sadhan Films Naba- Merinal Kanti Roy, 

pally Colony Moro, 
Balaset. 


P . E . 


9 - 4 -74 


C - 7999 


202 . 69 (1 ) Lakshmi Productions, 

Gauhati. 


U 
73406 


Lakshmi Productions , 

Gauhati. 


Rajdhani Aru Ekhan 
Mohapagaror Jan 

tna (Assamese ) 
( 35 mm ) ( India ). 


9 . 4 - 74 


C - 8000 


324 · 39 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


Spandan (Aggamoso) 

( 35 mm ) ( India ) . 


73407 


9 - 4 74 


MADRAS 


M -8516 


Dharmavijayamu 
( Tolugu ) ( Colour ) 
(35 ) mm . ( India ) . 


30 -48 (1) Cine Ads, Corpn . Cine Ads, Corp . 
Sooundorabad , 

Socundorabad , 


67510 


9 -474 


M -8469 


3991 : 35(15) Olympic Pictures , 

Madras . 


" Hum Shakal (Hindi) 

(Colour) (35 mm ) , 
( India ). 


Olympic 

Madras, 


Pictures , 


U 
673117 With cuts, 


10 - 4 - 74 


2209 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 
1 


5 


PART III SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 
- - - - - - - - - - - - 

2 
Endorsement on cort. No , 67511- U datod 10th April 1974 — issued to tho film " Huin Shakal (Hindi) ( Colour ). 

Length applied . — 3993 . 16 Meters , 
Cuis . 

1. Reel 2 - Dolete Sagar s shooting down of a girl at point blank ranga , 
2 . Reel 5 — Doloto shot of tho iuffian s finger in the socket of tho lamp to gol olectrocutod , 
) . Reel 6 - Doloto Lakshman s kiss on tho cheok of Radha . 


Mts . 
1 21 
0 . 90 
0 . 30 


TOTAL 


M - 8514 


67512 


Actual length of the film will be : 3991 . 35 Metres in 15 Reels . 

MADRAS 
" Tula Bharam ( Telu - 4224 :52 (18 ) Sri Ramana Chitral , Sri Ramana Chitra , 
qu ) (35 mm ) (B & W ). 

Madras, 

Madras. 
( India ). 
Vandikkari (Malaya 1089 -25(4 ) Neela Productions, Nocla Productions 
lam ) (35 mm ) B & W 

Trivandrum . 

Trivandrum , 
( Indla ). 


10 - 4 - 74 


U 


M - 8523 


67513 


10 - 4 74 


U 


M - 8517 


Potash - Tho Indis- 

pensablo Plant Food 
( Tamil) ( Colour) 
( 35 mm ) ( India ). 


541 . 93 ( 2 ) Krishnaswamy ASO- Krishnaswamy Asso - 

ciates (P ) Ltd . Madras, ciates (P ) Ltd . Madras , – 


67514 


10 4 - 74 


M - 8518 & 19 


640 . 50 ( 2 ) 


Filmugo , Trichur, 

Kerala , 


Shri Azees Trichur, 

Korala , 


U 
67515 


P . E . 


Tribal Lifo in Kerala 
English 

& 
Malayalam (Colour) 
( 35 mm ) ( India ). 


10 - 4 - 74 


30 - 48 (1 ) 


U 
67516 


M - 8520 

& 21 


Do . 


Do . 


Bridging the Gap 
( English Mala 
yalam ) ( Colour ) (35 
mm ) (India ). 


10 -4 - 74 


U 


M -8522 


30 -48 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


Do . 


67517 


lo & outs (English ) 
( Colour ) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


10 - 4 - 74 


U 


U 


M -8542 Tamilnadu Govt. Ro 205 . 00 ( 1 ) The Directorato of Tho Directorate of In 67518 
gional Nows Bullo 

Information & Public formation & Public 
tio 114 " ( Tamil) (35 

Rolations, Madras , Relations, Madras , 11 -4 - 74 
mm ) B & W (India ). 
M - 8533 Traļlor of Adavi 92 - 96 (1) Srikant Productons, Srikant Productions, 67519 
Dongalu ( Telugu ) 

Madras. 

Madras , 
( 35 mm ) ( India ). 

12 -474 
PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF 
FILM CENSORS DURING THE WEEK ENDING 20TH APRIL , 1974 . 

BOMBAY 


U 


B /71715 


" North of 60 East" 
( English ) ( Colour) 
( 16 mm .) (Canada ) . 


P , E . 


319 .00 ( 1) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 74755 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada , Govt. - - - - 
Chanakyapuri New of Canada . 

15 - 4 - 74 
Delhi - 4 

U 
323 . 00 ( 1) Do . 

Do. 

74776 


1 /71731 


“ Thc Sca " ( English ) 
(Colour) (16 mm .) 
(Canada) . 


P . E . 


15 - 4 - 74 


U 


9 /71734 


320 .00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


74777 


" Strcot of Salgaon " 

( English ) (Colour) 
(16 mm . ) (Canada ) . 


P . E . 


15 - 4 - 74 


U 


B / 71845 -7 


( 1 ) 


74778 


The Far Production 
Co . , Bombay -6 . 


. 


" Live Happy Foods 
From Dipy g " (Eng 
llah Hindi & Bengali) 
( Col. ) (35 mm .). 
" Suhag Raat" (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm . ). 


The Far Production 
Co. A - Rock Sido 
2nd Floor, Walkesh 
war Rd ., Bombay - 6 . 


15 - 4 - 74 


U 


B / 71782 


74779 


32 -61 (1 ) Mahesh Jain , Sea J. Mahesh Art Films. 

View Hotel Room 
No . 31. 


15 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71774 


" Trallor of Anjan 85 - 35 (1) Mohan Films, 

M / , Mohan Films, 74780 
Raahen " (Hindi) 

Sablok Mansion , 

- With trianglo park . 
( Colour) (35 mm .). 

Khar , Bombay -52 . 16 - 4 - 74 
Endorsement. 

Original Length . - 89 . 31 m . 
Reduce the fights by deleting hard hits on the stomach , chest and head . – 3 . 96 (Length retained . - 2 . 74 m .). 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 85 . 35 m . 


2210 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III — Sec . 4 


- 


- 


- -- 


4 


IZA 


U 
74781 


B /71764 


" Lord Bahu Ball " 

(English ) ( 16 nm . ). 


Not P . E . 


1028 . 22( 3) P . Venkatrao , Clo . P . Venkatrao , Prabha - 

M /s . Modern -16 Cine devl, Bombay -25 . 
Lab . Pvt. Ltd , Sahas 
Bldg . Prabhadevi , 
Bombay - 25. 


16 - 4 - 74 


B /71542 


“ Naya Savera " (Hindi) 
(16 nu ), 


Not P . E . 


U 
342 - 28 ( 3) National Education National Education 74782 

& Information Films & Information Films - - 
Lid . , National Ilouse , Ltd ., National Houso , 164 - 74 
Tulloch Road , Bom Tullock Road , Bom 
bay - 1 . 

bay - 1. 


D / 71880 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1331 " (Northern 
Edition ) ( 35 mm ). 


269 .00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 -Peddar - 
Road , Bonbay - 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 


B /71879 


" Indian Nows Roview 
No. 1331" (35 min .) . 


182 . 00 ( 1) Films Division , Bom 

buy - 26 . 


Do. 


74783 ( Valid for Eng 

- oor . lish , Hindi, Kash 
17 -4 - 74 miri, Punjabi & 

Urdu Versions). 
U 
74784 (Valid for English , 
- 

Hindi, Marathi, 
17 -4 - 74 Gujarati, Tamil, 

Telugu , Kannada , 
Malayalam , Assa 
mese , Oriya & 
Bengali . ) . 


U 


B / 71895 


48 00 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


74785 


P . E . 


“ VIOLENCE - What 
Price ? Who Pays ? 
No. 4 " ( English ) 
( 35 nm ). 


17 - 4 -74 


U 
74786 


B /71882 


05 .00 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


" VolenceWhat Price ? 
Who Pays No . 5 " 
(Hindi) (35 mm .). 


P . E , 


17 -474 


U 
74787 


B /71677 


" Aap Ki Kasam " 
(Hindi) (Col.) ( 35 


4195 -26 ( 16) Filmyug Pyt. Ltd ., Shri J. Om Prakash 

Mayur Tilak Road , 
Bombay - 54 . 


m . ) . 


17 - 4 - 74 


U 


B / 71764 


74788 


" Trailer of Do Num 
ber Ke Amcor (Hindi) 
(Col.) (35 mm .). 


86 - 36 (1 ) Mukul Enterprises , Ram Dayal , Clo . 

Ranjit Studio , Dadar , Ranjit Studio , Dadar , 
Bonbay - 14 . 

Bombay - 14 . 


17 - 4 - 74 


B /71747 


E . B . Educational Corpn , 


74789 


“ Bring the World to 
the Class room ( Eng 
lish ) (16 mm ) 


213 . 11 ( 2 ) Comel , Sandhurst 

Bridge , V . P . Roud , 
Bombay - 7. 


P . E . 


17 - 4 - 74 


B /71750 


122 -53 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


" Work of the Kidneys" 
( English ) (16 mm .). 


74790 


P . E . 


17 - 4 - 74 


U 


74791 


B /71808 


" Ankur" ( Hindi ) 
(Colour) (35 mm .). 


3742 . 34 ( 14 ) Blaze Film Enteiprises Blaze Film Enterpriscs 
Pvt. Ltd . 

Pvt. Ltd . 


17 - 4 . 74 


B /71794 - 7 


" Around the Soviet 
Unio11 No . 96 " 
(Colour) ( 16 mm .) . 


11100 ( 1 ) U . S . S . R . Consulate Central Documentary 

General, Bombay , Film Studio . 


U 
74792 ( Valid for Marathi, 
- - Gujarati, Punjabi, 
18 -4 - 74 Tamil & Telugu 

Vorsions.) 
U 
74793 


B /71814 


86 - 86 ( 1 ) S . Kamruddin , 


Sultan . 


" Trailer of Dil Ki 
Rahen " (Hindi) 
(Colour) ( 35 mm .). 


18 - 4 - 74 

U 


B /71749 


74794 


" Problem of Conser 
vation Water " 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm .). 


178 . 92( 2 ) Comel, Sandhurst 

Bridge, V. P . Road , 
Bombay - 7. 


Encyclopaedio Britan . 
nica Educational - 
Corpn . 


P . E . 


18 -4 - 74 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


PART 111 - SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2211 


- 


- - - - - -- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


_ - 


- - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


-- - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


2 


- - 


U 


B /70579 


" Dharmendar Plays 4176 . 70 (16 ) Ramesh Lakhanpal Cine Mander, 3/3 74795 
Pocket Maar" (Hindi ) 

& Joginder, 38 -Nort) Air Conditioned Mal - — - - - With triangle mark . 
(Colour ) (35 min .) . 

Bombay Society Sing ket, Tardco Bombay 18 - 4 - 74 
Lythra , Juhu, Bomb- 34 . 

54 . 
Endorsement. 

Original Length - 4210 . 99 m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No . 

1 : Delete the word " Maal" with refcronco to a 16 ycar old girl, as spoken by 

Sunder . ( Deleted sound only ) (Roplaced with approved words.) . . 
2 1 : Delete the viow of a foreign couplo kissing in the background of ong of the 
Superimposed titles , 

2 . 44 m . 
(Replaced with approved shots. - 2 . 44 m . ) 
3 II : Delete the references to " caqlna " and " Jaana " in the dialogue spoken by 

Sunder in the restaurant. (Deleted sound only ) (Replaced with approved 

words ) 
4 VIII ; Delete the suggestive words " Aap khush ho jaygoi" as spoken to Sheela by 
Sunder in the disguise of a Captain 

4 . 50 m . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 0 . 45 m . ) 
5 . IX : (a ) Delete thc words " Nagpur ki narangi, jaisi, musth jawani" as spoken by 
Madan s man to the blind girls 

0 .61 m . 
(6 ) Reduce the close punches in the fight between Shanker and Madan s man 3 . 05 m . 

(Length retailed : 2 . 14 m .) . 
6 . IX : ( 7) Delete the words to the following effect yttered by Madan s henchman 

to Ganga " Tumhare durwajepar aakar nain is hun aur jawani ko 

lootc bills hi chala jaoon ?" (Delete sound only ) 
( 1 ) Reduce the scenewhere Madan s accomplice tries to molest Ganga , 2 .43 m . 

(Length retained : 2 . 43 m .). 
7 . IX : Delete the words " garan " in the dialogue spokcn by Shanker to Asha near 

the swimming pool. (Deleted Sound only ) 
8 . X : Delete the clošo shot of Shankợr caressing the baro lege of Asha . 

2 . 13 m . 
(Length l eplaced . 2 . 13 m . ). (approved .). 
9. XII : Reduccsuitably the fight between Shanker and gangsters . . . 7 .92 m . 

( Length reluined : 13 . 42 m ) 
10 . XV : Reduce the torture of Shanker by dragging him with the help of Jeep , 2 . 13 m . 

(Length rotilined : 6 . 10 m . ) 
11. XVI : Reduce the dragging of Madan by Shanker and reduce the fight, particularly 
close punches on face and stomach 

7 .92 m . 
( Length cluined : 53 . 04 m .). 
12. XV & Reduco the fight between Shanker and Madan and his henchmen and ro 
XVI duce dragging of Shanker , 

6 . 18 m . 
(Length retained : 53 .67 m . ) . 
Length of relations. — 39 .31 m . 
Length of approvod roplacement.- 5 .02 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be - - 4176 . 70 m in 16 Reels . 


U 


B / 71816 -23 " Fastor, Higher, 

Stronger " ( 16 mm . ) 
( U . S . S . R . ). 


212 .00 ( 2 ) U . S .S . R . Consulate 

General 


Central Documentary 
Film Studio 


74796 


(Valid for English , 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, Punjabi 
Telugu , Kannada 
and Malayalam 
versiong. ). 


B /71813 


60 . 961 


" A Guest Is As a 
God " (Music only ) 
(35 mm .). 


U 
Mr. Zaſar Hal, Cine- Mr. Zafar Hai, Cine 74797 

ral Communications , ral Communications , 
kshma Bhavan , Bon Kshma Bhavan , Bom - 19 -4 - 74 
bay - 20 . bay - 20 . 

U 
23300 (1 ) Canadian High Con - National Film Board 74798 

mission , Shanti Pach , of Canada , Govt. of - 
Chanakyapuri , New Canada . 

19 - 4 - 74 
Delhi- 4 . 

U 
226 - 00 ( 1) Do . Do . 

74799 


B /71741 


" Winds of Fogo " 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm ) ( Canada ). 


P . E . 


B / 71716 


" Off Shore " ( English ) 
(Colour) ( 16 mm .) 
( Canada ). 


P . E . 


19 - 4 - 74 


137 .001 ( 1 ) 


Do , 


Do . 


74800 


B /71740 " Where 

Smoko " 
( Colour ) 

(Canada ) . 
10 - - 369G ) / 75 


There is 

(English ) 
( 16 mm .) 


P . E . 


19 - 4 - 74 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


2212 
- - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III / SEC , 4 
= - - 

- - - - - - - = - - - - - - - - 

- - - - 


- - - - - - -- 


= 


= 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- ñ 


- 


- 


- - 


lii 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


. 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- -- 


- a 


U 


B / 71717 


175 . a 


74801 


" Oskec Wee Woc " 
( English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (Canada ). 


Canadian High Commis - National film Board 
sion , Shanti Path , Chan - of Canada , Govt . of - 
Akyapuri, New Delhi Canada , 


P . E . 


19 - 4 - 74 


B /71733 


" Specialist " (English ) 
( Colour ) (16 mm . ). 


112 .00 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


74802 


P . E . 


19 - 4 - 74 

U 
74803 


B /71761 


47 -24( 1 ) Urmil Pictures 


Vibhuti Narayan Singh 


" Mujhe Nam Se 
Pukaro " (Hindi) 
( Colour) ( 35 mm .). 


B /71445 


19 - 4 - 74 

U 
74804 

- - With triangle mark , 
19 -4 - 74 


74804 


20 - 73 m . 


" Hamrahi" (Hindi) 3853 72 (15) Sagar Art Corpora - Subhash Sagar, 
( Colour) (35 mm .) 

tion , Natraj Studio , 
194 Kurla Road , 

Bombay-69. 
Endorsement . 

Original Length .- - 3922 - 55 m . 
Cut Reel 
No , No , 
1. IX : Reduce the sequence on preparation for a human sacrifice where the heroine 

is shown to be captive of the bridge contractors man and is about to be 
sacrificed 

. . . . . 
(Length retained : 35 . 31 m . 

. . . 
2 . X : Reduce to the minimum the scene of heroine being tortured by Sujeet with 

a knife . 

( Length retained : 0 61 m .) . 
3 . XI : Roduce the scene in which Ramesh presses his log on the neck of a goonda 

and blood cozing from his mouth and tho subscquent scene when he is 
repeatedly drowned in the bath - tub . . 

. . . . ., 
( Length retained : 5 . 18 m .) 
4 . XII : During the dance of three girls in smuglers den , delete the shot of 

indecorous action of the dancing girls 
5 . XV : Reduce the fight between Ramesh and Sujoct on top of a building under 
construction . . . . . . . . . 

. 
Length of deletions.- 68 .83 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be - 3853 . 72 m . in 15 reels. 


5 . 56 m . 


5 .71 in . 


2 . 28 m . 


34 . 55 m . 


U 


B /71635 


74805 

- - With triangle mark . 
19- 4 - 74 


" Trailer of Goonj" 81 - 99 (1) Sangam Films. A . V . Mohan 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) . 
Endorsement 

Original Length .-- 88 - 39 m . 
1 . Reduce the sequencc of a couple making love in bed , by deleting the second half of 

the scene whero he caresses her back and tries to open the zip 

( Lcogth retained : 2 -89 m .) 
2 . Reduce the impact of the fight hy deleting hard hitson the stomach , keeping one 
or two blows 

( Length retained : 3.20 m .). " 
Length of deletions. — 6 .40 in . 
Actuallength of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be. --81 . 99 m . 


4 . 27 m . 


2 . 13 m . 


B /71752 


74806 


" Sangam " (Hindi) 
( Colour) (35 mm .). 


P . E 


274 . 62 ( 1 ) Ratna Gupta, Propric- Ratna Gupta Bombay 

tores , Darpan 26 - - N , 59 . 
Block Eva Corpo 
rutive Society Juhu , 
Bombily - 59 , 


20 -4 - 74 


B /71753 


U 
74807 


" Naya Savera " (Hindi) 
( Colour) (35 mm .). 


Bombay-50 _ 74807 


257 . 86 (1 ) S . R . Saaz , Proprietor S . R , Saaz. Bombay -50 

Amma,- A Movie 
Makers Association , 
4 / 5 Kazi Blocks, 
Bombay - 50 . 


P.E. 


P . E . 


20 - 4 - 74 


B / 71844 


U 
74808 


" Trailer of Dhuen Ki 
" Trailer of Dhuen Ki 
Lakeer (Hindi) 


91 .44( 1 ) Roopanjali, Pvt . Ltd ., Roopanjali Pvt. Ltd ., 

43 - Bhupan Chember, 43 - Bhupen Chember , - 
Dalal Street , Bombay - 1. Dalal Street, Bombay 


* ** (!) Roopanjali, Pvt. Lt 


(Colour) (35 mmHindi) 


20 - 4 - 74 


B / 71877 


74809 


" Phir Kab Milogi” 
(Hindi) ( Colour) 
(35 mm .). 


3878 . 90 (15) Shri Hari Mehra , 91- Shri Hari Mehra , 91. 

Marine Drive, Bom - Marine Drive , Bom 
bay - 2 . 

bay - 2 . 


20 - 4 - 74 


PART III._ SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2213 


B /71883 


U 
74810 


" Men Hoon Chatur 
Siyar " (Hindi) 
( 16 mm .) . 


P . E . 


296 . 00 ( 1) Space Applications Space Applications 

Centre , Ahmedabad Centre Sahejanbad 
380015 

Colloge Bldg . Ahmeda - 
bad - 380015 . 


20 -4 -74 


ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 
B /71487 

Film : “ Dost" (Hindi) (35 mm .) ( Col.). 
U - Cort. No . 74746 of 8 -4 - 1974 . 
Reel No. 11 : Deleted various shots . . . . . . . . 23 .47 m . 
Reel No. V : Deleted various shots 

. . . . . . . . 51 -52 m . 
Reel No . XV : Deleted various shots 

28 . 35 m 
Reel Nu , XVI : Deleted various shots . . . . . . . . 29 - 26 m . 
Length of deletions : 132 . 60 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be. - 4695 . 54 m in 17 reels , 

This certificate was endorsed on 16th April, 1974 . 
B /71804 
l ilm : " Violence What Price ? Who pays ? (No. 3 ) 
U -Cert. No. 74758 of 9 -4 - 1974 , 

Corrections: The length of the film on the face of certificate may be read as 28 . 00 metres instead of 60 .00 mcties . 

This certificate was endorsed on 17th April, 1974 . 
B /71883-94 
Film : " Path of Progress " (English ) 
U -Cert. No , 73203 of 24 - 8 - 1973 , 

This cortificate is also valid for following versions of the film under tho titles indicated against each of them , 
Hindi : Pragati ka path , Oriya , Pragati kat path , Assamese : Pragti ka path , Urdu : Pragti ka path , Bengali : Pragti 
ka path . Telugu ; Path of Progress , Tamil : Path of Progress , Punjabi : Pragti ka path , Malayalam : Path of Progress , 
Gujarathi: Pragti ka path , Kannada : Path of Progress . The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificate was endorsed on 17th April, 1974 , 
B / 71654 
Film : " Saga of Shipping " ( English ) ( Colour ) 
U - Cert. No . 74686 of 29 - 3- 1974 , 

Reel No , Deleted various shiots : 23 . 00 Reel No. 11 - Deleted various shots : 43 . 00 
Length of deletions : 66 00 m . 
Actual length of the film afier the aforesaid deletions will be ; 457 . 00 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 18th April, 1974 , 
B /71572 
Film : " Applique or Orissa " (English ) 
U - Cert. No, 74633 of 22 -3 -1974 , 

Deleted various shots : 55 . 09m . 
Actual length of the film afier the aforesail deletionswill be : 236 . 91m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 18th April, 1974 . 
B /71779 - 80 
Film : “ Thirst " (English ) (Colour) 
U - Cert . No. 74630 of 22 -3 - 1974 , 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil and Telugu versions of the films in colour. 
Thc length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificato was endorsed on 18th April, 1974 . 
B /71778 
Film : " Pyes " (Hindi) (Colour) 
U - Cert. No. 74629 d of 22- 3 - 1974 , 

This certificate is also valid for Gujarati version of the film in colour . 
The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificate was cndorsed on 18th April, 1974 . 
B /71860 

Film : " Peera Hare, Achha Kare " (Hindi) . 
U - Cert . No, 74625 of 22 -3 - 1974 , 

This certificate is also valid for Gujarati and Marathi versions of the film . The length of the film remains 

unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 18th April, 1974 , 


UT 


2214 


THE GAŽETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1995 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [PART III — SEC , 4 


- 


- - 


- 


-- - - - 


- 


- - -- - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 
- - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


Le 


- - - 


- 

- - - 
4 
- - 

- 

- 
B / 71800 
Film : " Stay With You " (English ) 
U - Certificate No . 72405 of 27-4 -1973 . 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of tho film in clolour, The length of the filni reaniains unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 18th April, 1974 . 


B / 71543- 47 
Film : " Dato The Sun " (English ) 
U -Cert. No. 74497 of 18 -3 - 1974 . 

This certificato is also valid for Hindi version of the film in clolour . 
This certificate was endorsed on 19th April , 1974 , 


The length of the film remains unchangçd . 


CALCUTTA 


C - 7998 


Asali (Bengali) 35mm 

India . 


4,091 - 00 (14 ) 


Gectali Pictures 80 /1, Geetali Datta , 

M , Kankulia Road , 
Çal- 19 . 


73408 


16 - 4 - 74 


C -7990 


Bisarjan (Bengali) 35 
mm -India 


U 
73409 


3,07 , 52 (11) Sabila Chitram 23 , Sabita Bose 

Baishabghata Lanc , 

Calcutta - 47. 
30 . 48 ( 1) Admaker s 16 , Shakes- Admakers 

pear Sarani, Cal- 16 . 


16 - 4 - 74 


C -8001-02 


Femila Snow ( Bengali ) 

& Hindi) (Colour ) 
35mm - India . 


73410 


16 - 4 - 74 


C -8003 


Sayees Keta ( N 

35mm - India . 


Keta (Nepali) 


343 - 50 ( 1 ) Devkota Films, Dar- Pratap Subha , 

jceling 


343-50 (1) Devkota 


U 
73411 


Films, Dar- Pratap Subha 


16 - 4 - 74 


U 


C -8005 


73412 


Lamja Parshuram 
(Manipuri) 35min 
India . 


19 - 4 - 74 


3 ,903 -88 (14 ) N . S . Films (Manipur) G , Nayran Sharma , 

Paona Bazar , Im 
phal, Manipur. 

MADRAS 
3944 . 11 ( 15 ) Hyderabad Movies , Hyderabad Movies , 
Madras . 

Madras . 


M - 8512 


" Needaloni Aadahi 
( Telugu ) ( Colour ) 
35min , India . 


A 
3302 


15- 4 - 74 
With Cuts , 


Mts . 


Endorsement on cert. No . 3302- A dated 15th April , 1974 - issued to the film “ Necduloni aadadhi ( Telugu ). 
Length applied . 3996 .47 Metres . 
Cuts . 
1 . Reel 4 Delete the shot of Madhu s head rcgting on the breast portion of 
Radha in the song picturisation 

4 . 56 
2 . Reel 6 Delete the close -shot of Radha removing her brassier when she 

is undressing and Pasupati is looking at her . . . . 1 .82 
3 . Reel 6 Reduce tho sequence of Pasupati raping Radha to the bare mini 

mum , cspecially deleting the shots of interwined legs on bed . 
(Retaincd 6 -39 ). . . . . . 

. . 10 .66 
4 . Reel 8 Delete (a ) the two prominent shots of the gamp Ragini wearing 

only brassier with bottle in between her legs, facing camera 
( b ) the low -angle shot of Ragini with prominent brussicr viow . 
sitting on the teapoy in the cross-logged posture. 

0 . 91 
5 . Reel 13 Reduce by 70 % the rich man Ranganatnam molesting Radha 

both on bed as well as on floor, especially deleting his action of 
tearing of her blouse , pulling off her şari . (Retained 
14 -01) . 

, , 26 -81 
6 . Reel 15 From the surgical operation scene on Madhu 
delete entirely the close - range shot of the wound being closed by 
stitching. (No objection to keeping a flash view of cutting tho 
thread at the end . Replaced approved shot 5 -78 ) . 

5 . 78 


1 . 82 


TOTAL 


52 . 36 


Actual length of the film will be 39 -44 : 11 Metres in 15 Reels. 


2215 


PART III - SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - 

- - - . - - - - - - - - 

- - 
1 

2 


- - - 


- - --- 


- 


- - 


- - 


LUL 


LOL . 
LA 


M -8539 


Chandana ( Telugu ) 

35mm . B & W . India , 


4226 -65( 16 ) Sridhar 

Madras . 


Combines , Sridhar 

Madras. 


Combines , 67320 

16 - 4 .74 


M /8538 


Aramana Rahasyam 3963 - 35 (17) Pionoor Enjortainers , Pioneer Entortar crs, 67521 With cuts , 
(Malayalam ) ( 35 mm 

Madras , 

Madras . 
( B . & W . ) (India ). 

17-4 - 74 
Endorsement on Cortificato No. 67521/ U dated 17 - 4 - 1974 issuocl to film ‘Aramuna Rahasyam (Malayalam ) ( 35 mni) (B . & W . ) 
Longth applied . - 3973 : 35 Metres . 
Cuts : 

Molres 
Reel 4 - Raluco Pappotta whipping Venu . (Retained 10 Metres ). 

10 . 00 


TOTAL : 


10 .00 


M /8532 


Actual length of the film will be . — 3963 : 35 Metres in 17 Reels. 
" Sothu Bandhanam 4235 -80 (15 ) Surya Pictures, Madras Shri R . 
(Malayalam ) (35 min ) 

Madras . 
(B . & W ) (India ) 


Somancih , 


U 
67522 


17 - 4 - 74 


U 
67523 


M / 8524 


5138 .30 ( 20 ) Jayashri Combines, Shri G , Hanuma that 
Madrils . 

Rao , Madras . 


" Alluri Sitaramaraju " 

( Tolugu ) (Colour ) 
( Cinomascope ) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


18 -474 


U 
67524 


M /8537 


106 . 68 (1) Pioneer Entertainors , Pioneer Entertaji crs , 
Madras. 

Mudrils 


Trailer of "Aramana 

Rahasyam (Malaya 
lam ) (35 mm ) ( B & 
W .) ( India ) 


18 -4 -74 


M /8525 


"Upagane (Kannadil) 

(Col.) (35 mm ) ( India 


4273 · 29 (16 ) Chithra Jyothi,Mysore Chitra Jyothi, Mysore 


U 
67525 


18 - 4 -74 


U 


M /8531 


Uthana Ilau ( Tolue, u ) 3942 . 27 (16) Nageswira Produc - Nagoswara Productiong 67526 With cuts 
(35 mm ) ( B . & W .) 

tions, Madras . 

Madras . 
( India ). 

18 -4 - 74 
Endorsement on cert . No. 67524- U dt. 18-4- 74 issued to film Uthama Ilau ( Tolugu , (35 mm ) (B . & W .) 
Length applied . – 3952 - 93 Moties . 


Mctres 


Cut: 
Rool 5 — Delote Sangli s sentence " Yoe Prapanchamlo chinna pilla , podda pilli, 

pedda manishi, Dabhugalavadu , Kavi , Bujukooya vetta overyna $110 kakahu 
alayalu paddaru " 

Total 


10 .66 


10 . 66 


Actual length of the film will be - 3942 -27 Metres in 16 Recls . 


M /8534 


3532 - 3 


U 
67527 


" Nollu (Malayalam ) 

(Colour) (35 mm ) 
(India ) 


Jamu Films Jpcrni - Jamu Filnis Intorna 
tional, Madras , 

tional, Mudras . 


18 - 4 - 74 


U 


M - 8335 


" Ground Spill Petro 

loum Fires ( English ) 
( Colour ) 16mm , USA 


109 . 72 ( 1 ) Madras Refinories Ltd , Teaching Filns Inc ., 

110 , 
Madras . 

Texas, USA , 


67528 P . E . 


19 - 4 - 74 


U 


M -8339 


Process Unit Tower 

Flanges and Pump 


109 . 72 ( 1 ) 


Madras Refinerics Ltd . 

Madras , 


Teaching Films Inc. 
Taxas , USA , 


67529 


P . E . 


19 - 4 - 74 


Packing Firos ( Eng 
lish )(Colour) 16mm . 
USA , 


2216 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [PART III . Sec. 4 
- --- -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- --- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- 

- -- = = - - - - -- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


5 


M -8546 


94 - 48 ( 1) 


Trailer of Sathi Anu - 
suya (Hindi) (Colour ) 
35ım . India , 


Venkatapathy Pictuics 

Madras 


Shri S , V . Rajagopal, 
Madras . 


67530 


20 -4 - 74 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM 

CENSORS DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 27TH APRIL , 1974 


BOMBAY 


U 


B /71742 


74811 P . E . 


" You Don t Back 

Down " (English ) 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 


316 .00 ( 1) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada , 
Chanakyapuri Now Govt. of Candda . 

Delhi-21. 
289 .00 (1) DO 

Do 


22 -4- 74 


B /71737 


" 20 Million Powplo " 

(English ) ( Colour ) 
(16mm ) ( Canada ) 


U 
74812 


P . E . 


22 -4 - 74 


B /71897 


Bhattacharya . 


U 
74813 


" Wide World of Cali - 

co " (English ) ( Co 
lour) (35mm ) 


30 -48 ( 1) Ruchi Chitra , Bhakar S . K . 

Bhavan , 2222 / 1 , Sir 
Blialchandra Rd ., 
Bombay - 19 . 


22- 4 - 74 


U 
74814 


B / 71809 


" Roplas Fibreglass 

Bodios " (Fnglişli ) 
(Colour) (35min .) 


136 .66 ( 1 ) Film Media , 47 - Lexmi Mr. Jyoti G . Thakur. 

Insurance Building Film Mediu . 
Sir P . M . Rd , 
Bombay - 1. 


22 - 4 -75 


B /71723 


411 -48 ( 2 ) 


+ Towards A Now Lifo " 

(Hindi) (Colour ) ( 35 
11m . ) 


P . T . Jani, Shrikrishana P . T . Jani, Shrikrishna 

Boarding House , Boarding House , 
Room No . 12 , Room No. 12 , - - 
Bombay - 4 . 

Bombay - 4 . 


74815 

Not P . E . 
22 -4 - 74 . 


B /71724 


198 . 12 ( ! ) 


Do 


Do 


U 


" Samay Ki Pukar " 

(Hindi) (Colour ) 
(35mm ) 


74816 


P . E . 


22 - 4 - 74 


B /71770 


74817 


P . E . 


" National Chemical 

Laboratory in the 
Sorvice of Nation , 
( Eng.) (Col.) ( 35 mm ) 


395 .02 ( 2 ) M . K . Navandar, Parl- M /s. Chitra Bharati 

nor , Chitra Bharati , 
759 /94 Prabhat Rd 
Poona - 4 . 


22 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71903 


" Kaal Ane Auj" (Guj.) 

(35 mm ) 


115 .00 ( 1) Filmi Saudagars 11- Filmi Saudagars , 11, 74818 

Kshitij Adarsh So - Kshitij Adarsh So - - -- 
ciety , Bombay -64 ciety , Bombay -64 , 23- 4 -74 


B /71904 


168 - 2 ( 1 ) 


L4. . 


. 


74819 


{T 


P . E . 


" Apni Sukh Apne 

Hath " (Hindi) (Col. 
(35 mm ) 


ARPIMovies (P ) Ltd ., ARPI Movies ( P ) Ltd ., 

519 -Loha Bhavan , 519 , Loha Bhuvan , 
P , D mello Road , Bombay - 9 , 
Bombay - 9 , 


23 -4 -74 


B /71913 


U 
74820 


F , B . Productions, 


30 -48 ( 1 ) 


F . B , Productions 


" Loving Mohter (Englisb ) 

(Colour ) ( 35 mm ) 


23 - 4 - 74 


B /71921 


91 -50 ( 1) 


" Trailer of 
Bahan " 
( 35mm .) 


" Choti 
(Hindi) 


U 
74821 


Prilsad Productions Prasad Productions 

( P .) Ltd . 816 - Bom - ( P . ) Ltd , 810 - Bom . 
bay Market, Tordeo , bay Markot, Tardoo , 
Bombay - 34 . 

Bombay - 34. 


23 - 4 - 74 


B / 71919 


** Trailer of Hamarahi" 

(Hindi) ( 35mm ) 


99 . 12 (1 ) 


U 
74822 


Do 


DO 


23 - 4 -74 


B /71927 


91 - 50 (1 ) 


" Trailer of Sasural" 
(Hindi) (35mm ) 


DO 


Do 


U 
74823 ) 


23 - 4 - 74 


2217 


PART III - SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
- - - -- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


+ 


+ 


- - 


- - -- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


www - S 


B /71920 


U 


" Trailor of Beti Bate " 

(Hindi) ( 35mm . ) 


74824 


97 .60 (1 ) Prasad Productions Prasad Productions 

(P . ) Ltd ., 10 - Bombay (P .) Ltd , 810 Bombay 
Market , Tiurdeo , Market, Taideo , 
Bombay - 34 , 

Bombay - 34 . 
84 99 ( 1 ) S , Kamrud lin . 

Asha Art International. 


23 - 4 - 74 


B / 71843 


" Trailer of Pugli " 

(Hindi) (Col.) (35mm . ) 


U 
74825 With traingle mark 


24 -4 - 74 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 89 . 92 m . 

Reduce drastically the impact of violonco ,- - 5 .33 m . (Length retained : 17 :07 m .) 

Actual length of the film after the aforesail delitions will be ; 84 :59 m . 
" Indian News Review 30100 ( 1) Iilms Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. U 
No . 1332 " ( E . storn 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 , Peddar 74826 
Edition ) ( 35mm . ) Roaci , Bumbay - 26 , Road , Bombay - 26 . 

24 - 4 - 74 


B /71938 


(Valid for English 
Hindi, Bengali 
Assamoso & Oriya 
versions ), 


B /71937 


238 .00 ( 1 ) 


Do 


Do 


" Indian Nows Rovicw 

No . 1332" ( 35mm . ) 
( 1 ? vorsions ) 


74827 

- (Valid for Englishi, 
24 - 4 -74 Ilindi, Marath , 

Gujarati, Tamil , 
Telugu , Kannada , 
Malyalam , Punjabi, 
Kashmiri, Urdu & 
Sindhi versions ) . 


B / 71949 


297 .00 (1 ) 


" Maharashtra Nowy 
No. 263. " (Murathi & 
Hindi) (35mm .) 


The Direc . or General 
of Infor nation & 
Public Relation , 
Govt. of Maharashtril . 


Tho Director General 74828 
of Information & - - - 
Public Relation . 

24 - 4 - 74 


B / 71875 


P . F 


" John " (English ) 
( 16mm .) (U . K .) 


487 . 00 ( 1 ) National Education 

& Information Films 
Ltd ., NationalHousc , 
Apollo Bunder , 
Hombay- 1. 


U 
Tavistock 

Child 74829 
Development Research — 
Unit . 

25 - 4 - 74 


B / 71876 


U 
74830 


83 . 82 (1 ) 


" Jane" (Scenes ) (En 
glish ) (16mm .) 


Do . 


$3-820) 


Do . 


B71876 


P . E . 


light scenes)(En - 


25 - 4 - 75 


B /71874 


443 18 ( 1) 


D0 , 


Do . 


74831 


P . E . 


“ A Two Year Ol 
Gocs to Hospital" 
( English ) ( 16mm . ) 
( U . K .) 


25 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71862 


243 . 84 ( 1 ) 


DO 


Davidson Films, 


74832 P . E . 


" Chemical Families" 
(English ) (16mm .) 
( U . S . A ) 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


25 - 4 - 74 


B / 71863 


243 84 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do. 


P . E . 


" Guses And How 

They Combine" (En 
glish ) ( 16mm .) (USA ) 


74833 
25 -4 -74 


U 
74834 


B / 71864 


231 65 ( 1) 


Do . 


P . C . 


" Gas Prossrue And 
Moloculis Collisions" 
(English ) ( 16nim .) 
(USA ) 


Educational Services 
Incorporated 


25 -4 -74 


U 


B /71865 


182 - 88 (1) 


Do . 


Davidson Films, 


74835 


P . E . 


" Chemical Bonding" 
( English ) ( 16mm . ) 
(USA .) 


25 - 4 - 74 

U 
74836 


B /71868 


146 . 30 (1 ) 


DO . 


Do . 


P . E . 


" The Hydrogen Atom 
As Vicwcd By Quan 
tuin Mechanics " 
(English ) (16mm .) 
(USA ) 


25 - 4 - 74 


2213 
-- - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III - SEC , 4 
- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- -- - = - = 

- - = 


1 


3 


U 


B / 71869 


74837 


P , F , 


" Electric Intctic 
tions In Chomistry " 
( English ) (16mm .) 
(USA ) 


243 -84 ( 1 ) National Exlucation Wextor Filmg. 

& Infoimation Films 
Ltd ., National House , 
Apollo Burder , 
Bombay — 1 , 


25 -4 - 74 


B /71928 


U 
74838 


30 . 48 ( 1 ) 


" Picturo of Ilgalth " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(35mm . ) 


F . B . Productions , F . B . Productions, 
Film Centre, 68- Film Contre, 68 
Tardeo Road , Tardeo Road , 
Bombay - 34 . 

Bombay - 34 . 


25 -4 -74 


B / 71923 


" Trailer of Dost " 
(Hindi) ( Col.) ( 35mm ) 


89 .00 (1) Suchitra , 


74839 


Mr. Premnath Matl . 
chanda Alias M / 
Suchitra . 


25 - 4 - 74 


V 


B /71932 


85 - 34 (1) Voona Films. 


Jagdish Sharma . 


74840 With triangle mark , 


" Trailer of Klioon Ki 
Kimat " (Hindi) ( Co 
loui ) ( 35mm .) 


26 - 4 - 74 


Endorsement: 

Original Length : 86 .84 m 
1 . Delete the close shot of two men hitting cach othor on thoir fucos . - 0 . 83 m 
2 . Reduce the fight by coloting hard hits on the stomach .- -0 -67 m . 

(Deleted Completely ). 
Length of deletions : 1 : 50 in . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will he : 85 - 34 m . 


B /71-807 


Mchre, 


" Trailer of Phir Kab 
Milogi" (Hindi) ( Col 
our) (35mm .) 


70 -15 (1 ) Shri Huri Mehre , Shri Hari 
Marino 

Drive , Marinc 
Bunbay - 2 . 

Bombay -2 . 


Drive , 


Մ 
74841 
26 -4 - 74 
U 
74842 


B /71669 


" Portrait of A Hum 
anist" ( English ) 
(35mm .) 


549 .00 (2 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 -Peddar - 
Road, Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay -26 . 


26 -4- 74 

U 
74843 


B /71970 


479 .00 (2 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


" Voico of the Poople " 
(No Commentary, 
Suach dicloguos in 
ditlerent languages) 
( 35mm .) 


26 - 4- 74 


U 


B /71951 


74844 With triangle mark, 


“ Trailor of Alingan " 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
(35mm . ) 


84 -65(1) Mr. P. P. Javori, Mr. P . P. Javori , C /o . 

C /o . Jagmine Films, Jasmine Films. 
Bombay- 3 . 

Bombay - 3 . 


27 - 4 - 74 


Endorsement: 
Original Length : 88 - 39 m , 

1 . Delete the words " Apni godmen utha kar bistus par le jaoonga " as said by the man to the girl.- - 2 . 45 m . 
2 . Delete the underlined word from tho sentence " Haath kya . ab to jism milte rehenge " as said by the boy to the 

giil. - 0 .07 in , 
3 . Delete the shot of the boy unzipping the droga of tho glt ). — 1 -22 m . 

Length of deletions : 3 . 74 m . 
Actunl length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 84 . 65 m . 


B /71674 


74845 With triangle mark . 


" Khoon Ki Kimat" 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
( 35mm .) 


3630 - 68 (15) Vond Films, A - 20 , Jagdish Sharma , Vcena 

North Bombay Hous - Films, Bombuy- 54 . 
ing Society , Juhu 
Santacruz, Bonibuy -54 . 


27- 4 -74 


Endorsement: 
Original Length : 3739 -01 m . 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1 . 11 : Dilete the underlined words from the dialogue of the driver addressed to Deepak : 

( 1) “ Is main tera danda phad leta hoon " - - 3 : 33 m . 
( 11 ) " Oh , bavji , pohlo angootha is tasuh dikhake meri gaddi mein baitthha ode bad ungli kar di 

meri jeb mein aur battwa nikal liya ," 2 09 m . 
IV : From the picturisation of the song boginning with the words, “ qasi oh champa Chameli . . . . " 

delete the shot in which a girl dressed as il Inille , kisses another girl on the cheek , - 0 .45 m . 
V : Reduce tho gun battle between Deepak and the hirelings of the Tahkur. - 5 . 18 m . 

( Length retained : 13 : 10 m . ) 
4 . V : Delete the dialogue of Hakim addressed to Chanda : “ Kisne marri, kab maari, kahan maari" . 
4 .05 m . 

- — - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


PART III - SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2219 


- - - - - - - - - - 


12 


- GASYSHAAAALL - LSW VN 

6 


Cut Reel 
No No 
5. Vill : Delete the following lines from the song beginning with the words " Idhar aa , let ja . . . . 

(i) Aaj theek karoonga toro mijaj ko , chunari ular ke" (Deleted sound only ) (Replaced with 

approved words ) 
(ii ) Boy : “ Paanv dhcole chhod de .. . . . . . ." 

Girl : " Kya ? " 
Boy : " Mukhdo ko modo de . . " 
Girl : " Hut muve " . . . . . . 
Boy : Pun dheele chhodde, mukhde ko modo do " . ... . Ankhiyon ko band kar donon oath 

chhid de, idhar palat ja , palal- - iyse lipat ja , lipat, jahin waqt haj aur seemat ja . . . ." 

( Deleted sound only) (Replaced with approvod words ) 
6 . IX : Reduce the scene of Deepak boating Thakur’ sman by deleting hard hitting shots - 2 - 70 m . 

(Length retained : 1 .83 m .) 
7. XI : Delete refçre ice by Thakur claiming himself a crooked Rajput.-- - 1 - 29 m . 
8 . XII : Delete reforence to Billo in the dialogue of Hargun while describing her in the context of Mujra : 

" Gaanv ki kori karari kunwari. . . . . . . . " etc. - 1 . 74 m . 
9 . XIV : From these reels reduce the fights , shootings, killings and torture , deleting all gruesome shots 

( Including the shots in which Doopak is shown being dragged by the buggy while he holds on to it ). 
- 87 - 50 : m . 
( Length retained in Reel 14 : 46 . 02 m .) 
( Length rotajned lo Reel 15 ; 7 . 32 m .) 
Length of deletions : 108 . 33 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesalı deletions will be ; 3630 .68 m . in 15 Reels . 

U 
“ Tandurusti Ki Taal" 

1 ) Sohrab Boga , M /s Sohrab Boga , M / S 74846 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

Nishan Motion Pic - Nishan Motion Pic 
(35mm .) 

tures , Vasant Vihar, turcs, Vasant Vihar , 27 - 4 - 74 
8-Carmichael Road, 8- Carmichael Road , 
Bombay - 26 . Bombay- 26 . 

U 
" No Othor Choice " 29 .87(1) M /s Television Radio M /s Television Radio 74847 
( English ) (Colour) 

& Motion Pictures , & Motion Pictures, - -- - 
(35mm .) 

6 - A Rashmi Car 6 - A Rashmi Cars 27- 4 - 74 
inichael Road , inichach Road , 
Bombay - 26 . Bombay - 26 . 

U 
“ A conversation with 438 . 61 (1) Unitod States Infor- U . S . (nformation 74848 Not P . E . 
Vico PresidentGerald 

mation Sorviço, 4 . Agency , 
R . Ford " ( English ) New Marino Lines, 

27 -4 - 74 
(Colour) ( 16mm .) 

Bombay -20 . 
(USA ) 


B /71927 


15 - 24 ( 1 ) 


SO ] 


B /71800 


B /71636 


B /71815 


273 41(1) 


U 
74849 


Do. 


Thokas Craven . 


P . E . 


" Vision USA 20 " 
( English ) ( Colour) 
( 16mm .) (USA ) 


27 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71915 " O . K . Camera " ( En 312 . 00 ( 1 ) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 74850 P . E . 
glish ) (Colour) 

mision , Shanti Path , of Canada , Govt . of - 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) Chanakyapur , Now Canada . 

27 -4 - 74 
Delhi- 21 , 

U 
B / 71971 " People of the Seal: 586 - 00 (2 ) 

Do . 

Do. 

74851 P . E . 
Eskimo Summer 
( Eng .) (Col.) 

27 - 4 - 74 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 
Endorsement under Rule 34 : 

B / 71907- 12 
Film : " Flowers All Day " (English ) ( Colour) 
U - Cert . No. 74663 of 25- 3 - 1974. 
This certificate is also valid for Bengali , Tamil , Malayalam , Kannada , Hindi and Assamese versions of tho 

film in colour . 
The longth of the film remains unchanged . This certificate was endorsed on 23rd April, 1974 . 
B /71947 
Film : " Towards A Now Lifo " (Hindi) 
U -Cert. No. 74815 of 22 -4 - 1974 . 

This cortificato is also valid for English version of the film in colour. The length of the film romains unchanged , 

This certificato was endorsed on 24th April, 1974 . 
11 – 369 G1/75 


2220 _ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART 11 SEC . 4 


ARTENS 


M 
1 


2 


6 


- - 


- 


- 


B /71939 - 42 
Film : " The Tell Tale Bito " ( English ) (Colour) 
U -Cert. No . 74361 of 14 -2 - 1974 . 
This certificate is also valid for Oriya , Marathi, Bengali and Hindi versions of the film in colour, The length of 

the film remains unchanged . This certificate was endorsed on 24th April, 1974 . 
B /71670 - 71896 
Film : " Kal Aaj Aur Kal" (Gujarati ) 
U - Cort , No 74688 of 29 - 3 - 1974 . 

Added various shots : 7 . 62 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesald deletions will be : 243 .84 m . 
This certificate is algo valid for Hindi version of the Alm . The length of the film remains unchanged , 

This certificate was endorsed on 25th April, 1974 , 
B /73573 
Film : " Bazar Band Karo " (Hindi ) 
U -Cert, No. 74672 of 25 -3 - 1974 . 

Reel 14 : Deleted shot 3 .96 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3664 -30 m . in 13 Reels . 
This certificato was endorsed on 26th April , 1974 . 


CALCUTTA 


C /8006 


Black Money (Assa - 
meso ) (35mm . ) ( India ) 


U 
73413 


3, 560 - 37 ( 14 ) Nataraj Kalakendra . Achyut Lahakar . 

P . O . Pathasala , 
Kamrup , Assam . 


23 - 4 - 74 


U 


C /8009 


594 56 (2 ) 


73414 


E Muthi Chaular 
Kahini ( Assamese ) 
(35mm .) ( India ) 


Bhupon Hazarika, Bhupen Hazarika . 
77B , Golf Club Road , 
Cal.- 33 . 


23 -474 


C /8010 


Fuleshwari ( Bongali ) 
(35mm .) ( India ) . 


3 ,533 . 54 ( 13 ) 


Radharani Pictures, 169 Kartick Burman , 
C , Park Street, Cal.- 17 . 


U 
73415 


23 - 4 - 74 


C / 8012 


Paschim Banga Sar , 
karor Sambad Chitra 
No. 56 (Bengali ) 
(35mm . ) ( India ). 


U 
352 35 ( 1) Bibhuti Roy , 5 /1F , Koya - Dept. of Information 73416 
tala Road Cal.-29 . & Pub . Rolatione, me 

Govt . of Wost Bengal . 24 _ 4 - 74 
Calcutta . 


C /8013 


187 .45 ( 1) 


Do . 


U 
73417 


Bishesh Sangbad 
Chitra (Bengali) 
( 35mm .) ( India ) . 


Directorate of Public 
Relations & Tourism . 
Govt. of Tripura , 
Agratala . 


24 - 4 - 74 


U 


C /8011 


300 . 00 ( 1) 


73418 


Orissar Mukhya Gha - 
tanabali No. 105 
(Oriya ) (35mm .) 
( India ) 


Films Officer, Homo Homo ( Public Rola 
(P . R . ) Dept., Govt. tions) Dept., Govt. 
of Orissa 

of Orissa . 


27 - 4 - 74 


C /8008 


70 .00( 1) 


U 
73419 P .E . 


No Nocd To Hide 
( English ) (Colour) 
(16mm . ( USA ) 


Rev . D . Mark Buntain . Gospel Films Inc . USA . 
Assembly God 
Church , 18 , Royd Street, 
Cal.- 16 . 


27 - 4 - 74 


MADRAS 


M /8515 


U 
67531 


Baluvoninagagi" (Kan . 
nada) (35mm .) (B & 
W ) . ( India .) 


3962 -40( 16 ) Sunshine Pictures , Shri Josoph 
Sagar, Karnataka , Zouza , 

Karnataka , 


V . D , 
Sagar , 


22 -4 - 74 


M /8374 & 
8375 


457 . 20 (2 ) Deepthi 

Madras, 


Films, Dcopthi 

Madras. 


Films, 


67 $ 32 


Story of Toak 
(Malayalam & Eng . 
llah ) (35mm . ) (Colour ) 
( India .) 


P . E . 


22-4 - 74 


TAHT 


PART 111 — Sæc , 4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2221 


1 


2 


3 


- 7 


M / 8543 


Movies , C . N . V . 

Madras . 


Movies , 


Ghumasthayin Maghal , 4111 47(16 ) C . N . V . 
(Tamil) (35mm .) ( B & 

Madras , 
W .) (India .) 


67533 


23 - 4 - 74 


U 


M /8545 


Mete s . 


"Mugguru Ammayilụ 4451 61( 16 ) Nava Bharat Art Nava Bharat Films, 67534 With cuts 
( Telugu ) (35mm ) 

Films, Madras . Mądras. 
(B & W .) (Indid .) 

24 - 4 - 74 
Endoi sentent on Cert. No . 67534-U , dt. 24th April 1974 issued to film ‘Mugguru Ammayilu ( Telugu) 35mm 

B & W . 
Length applied : 4458 - 30 M , 
Cuts 
1, Reel 12 — Delete the words “ Tulasi Theertham from the dialogue of a custo 
mer 

5 48 
2 . Reel 13 – Delete the words " Mundu Evaru " from the dialogue of Raja 
(Replaced approved word : 0 . 60 ) . . . . . . 

0 60 
3 . Reel 15 - Delete the reference to Indirama from the dialogue of Uncle of 
Sobha 

1 :21 
Total. 

7 . 29 


Replacement approved : 0 .60 m . 
Actual length will be : 4451 - 61 m . In 16 Reels. 


U 


M / 8548 


" Doctoramma ( Tamil) 
(35mm .) (B & W ) ( India 


3658 - 20 ( 14 ) Meenakshi Art Meenakshi Art Prodns, 

Productions, Madras Madras . 


67535 


With cuts 


25 -4 - 74 


Endorsement on Cert. No. 67535 - 0 , dt. 25 -4-74 issued to the filin ‘ Doctoramma ( Tamil) 35mm . B & W . 

Length applied : 3691 50 M . 
Curso 

Metre s 
1 . Reel 3 - Delete words of the woman in charge of brothel : " Pendattina 
Arai Chappudu - Idhu Muzhu Chappadu " . 

4 . 25 
2. Reel 12 & 14 - Delete details of surgical operation - shown in close - shots . 29 .25 


Total. 


33 . 50 


Actual length of the film will be : 3658 . 20 m . m . in 14 Reels, 


U 


M /8540 , 49 


30 . 48(1) Film Media , Bombay . Shri Jyoti G . Thakur, 

Bonbay . 


& 51 


Aatrum Marundhu 
( Tamil Telugut , 
Kannada & Malaya 
lam ) (35mm .) ( B & W ) 
(India .) 


67536 
26 -4 - 74 


U 


M /8541 


Alakal (Malayalam ) 

(35mm .) ( B & W . ) 
( [odia .) 


3307 12 ( 14 ) Meiry Films Corpn ., Merry Films Corrn .. 
Madras. 

Madras. 


67537 With cuts . 


26 -4 . 75 


Endorsement on Ceri ,No. 67537- U , dt. 26 -4 -74 issued to the film Alakal (Malayalam ) 35mm . B & W . 
Length applied: 3335 .42 M . 
Cuis. 

Metres . 
1. Reel 2 - Delete Bhasirunning without dhoti , 

. , 0 . 60 
2. Reel 6 Reduce fight between Rajesh and Raghu to 1 /3 its present longth . 
oliminating all actions shown in close -shot 

, , . 

4 . 26 
3 . Reel 9 - Delete ( a ) acton of Bhasi disrobing the cabaret dancer ; ( b ) the 

belly movement (tho first action after stripping the outer- cloth ) : 
(c ) her shedding the out-garmont; (d ) the first shot in bikini (Ali 
shots of the dancer in silhouette , except those shown in close -shot 
of abdomen and upper half of body inay bo retained ) . 

19 - 20 
4 . Reel 12 – Delete molestation shown in flash -back (Raghu entering Gestha s 

chamber , up to his switching off lightmay be retained ) . . 0 .60 
5 . Reel 14 – Reduce Rajosh giving punchos on Raghu , to a flash 

3 .64 


Total , 


28 - 30 


Actual length of the film will be: 3307 ·12 m . in 14 Reels. 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2222 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART 111 — Sec, 4 


1 


2 


4 


M /8555 


97 . 53(1) M . S. Productions, 

Madras, 


M , S . 
Madras . 


Productions, 


U 
67538 


Trailer of Poonthen 
aruvi (Malayalam ) 
(35mm .) ( B . & W .) 
( India ) 


26 - 4 - 74 


M8552 & 
M / 8553 


U 
67539 


Cauvery Comes to 
Bangalore " ( English 
& Kannada ) 
( Colour) ( 35mm . ) 
( India .) 


426 .72 (2 ) Karnataka Film Deve - Karnataka Film De- 

lopment Corpo , Ltd ., velopment Corpn . Ltd , 
Karnataka , 

Karanataka . 


26 -4 - 74 


U 


M /8556 


Poonthenaruvi (Ma - 
layalam ) (35mm .) 
(B & W .) (India .) 


3957 .98 ( 14 ) M . S . Productions, M . S. Productions , 
Madras. 

Madras. 


67540 With cuts. 
27-4 -74 


Endorsement on Cert . No. 67540- U , dt. 27-4 -74 issued to the film ‘ Poonthenaruvi (Malayalam ) 35mm . B & W . 
Length applied : 3967 . 27 M . 
Cuts, 

Metres, 
1. Reel 2.- Delete the action ofMathai lifting dhotiand scratching. (Replaced : 
0 - 30 ) . . . . . . 

4 .00 
2 . Reel 13--- Delete Shaji and Vimala , rolling over cach othor on the seashore 
Actual length of the film will be 3957 .98 M . In 14 Reels . 

2 . 00 
Total. 6 .00 


M /8561 


358 - 1401 ) 


67541 


Saobut Smaranaikku 

(Malayalam ) (35mm .) 
( B & W .) ( India .) 


M . S . Productions, M , S , Productions , 
Madras. 

Madras . 


27 -4 - 74 


U 


M /8547 


3928 - 92 ( 16 ) K , P. A . C . Films, K . P . A . C . 
Trivandrum . 

Trivandrum . 


Filmg, 


Neelakkannukal (Ma- 
layalam ) ( 35min .) 
( B & W ) ( India ) 


67542 With cuts . 


27 - 4 - 74 


5 


Endorsement on Cert, No. 67542-U , dt. 27-4 - 74 issued to the filoi ‘Neelakkannukal (Malayalam ) 35 mm . B & W . 
Length applied ; 3956 - 30 M . 


Metres 


Cuts . 
1. Reel 7 - Delete words of estate owner s companions “ Everything is over , 

you may try to get fre ones" . . 
2. Reel 15 -- Delete suggestion ofKunhiraman being tortured in police station , 

and the police inspector taking orders from the estate owner . 
(Sound only removed for torturing suggestion ) 


3 . Reel 16 - Reduce assault and molestation by estate owner on Malu . ( Re 

tained ; 9 .74) . . . . . . . . 
4 . Reel 16 - Reduce Kunhiraman s action of strangling the estate owner to a 
flash , (Retained ,) . . 

. . . . . 


Total 


Actual length will be : 3928 . 92 in 16 Reels . 


PART 111 - Sec. 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) 


2223 


(1) _ 


(2 _ 


(2 ) 


( 5 ) 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 4TH MAY , 1974 


BOMBAY 


U 


B /71759 


74852 


“ Scionco Report 149 

B " (English ) 
( 16 mm . ) (USA ) 


P . E . 


152 . 70 ( 1) United States Informa - Robert Foster. 

tion Sorvico , 4 -Now 
Marino Lines , Bom 
bay -20 . 


29 - 4 - 74 


B /71975 


" Freodom To Lourn " 
( English ) (16 mm .) 
(USA ) 


209 .70 ( 1) National Educational & United Film Services . 

Information Films 
Ltd . 


U 
74853 

— 
29 - 4 -74 


P . E . 


U 
74854 


B /71807 


" US-Paar " (Hindi) 3411 - 62 (13) Basu Chatterji, Cineye Bayu Chatterji, Bon 
(Colour ) ( 35 mm .) 

Films, 65 / 1803 , Ad bay -25 . 
arsha Nagar, Prabha 
devi, Bombay -25 . 


29 - 4 - 74 


U 
74855 


B /71776 - 7 


" The Oaşis ” (English ) 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 


Bom 


30 - 48 (1 ) Keith Allams, M /s . Keith Allams. 

KAPPA , 1 / A Monisha bay - 50 . 
St., Andrew s Road , 
Bandra , Bombay -50 . 


29 - 4 -74 


B /71929 


" The Pearly Yeats " 
( English ) ( Colour) 
( 16 mm .) ( Canada ) 


U 
113 .00 ( 1 ) Canadian High Con - National Film Board 74856 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada , Govt. of - - 
Chankyapuri, New Canada . 

29 - 4 -74 
Dolhi- 21. 


Not P . E . 


Մ 


B / 71935 


153 .00 ( 1) 


Do , 


Do . 


74857 


" Don t Knock the Ox" 
( English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) ( Canada ) 


Not P . E . 


29 -4 -74 


B /71936 


308 .00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


" Challenge 
Church " 
(Colour) 
(Canada ) 


for the 
( English ) 
( 16 mm .) 


U 
74858 

- 
29 -4 - 74 


Not P . E . 


B / 71935 


119 .00 ( 1) 


Do . 


" L Homme Novoau ” 

(English ) ( Colour) 
(16 mm ) (Canada ) 


74859 

- - - 
29 -4 - 74 


Not P . E . 


B /71934 


585 . 00 ( 2) 


Do . 


U 
74860 

- 
29 - 4 - 74 


“ Peoplo of the Seal: 
Eskimo Winter * 
( English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (Canada ) 


P . E . 


U 


B / 71265 


" Rumours" (Hindi) 

( Colour ) (35 mm .) 


260 -60 (1) Prem Paul, Mooivta K . Ranjcet Singh , 120 

30 - B , Kalkali New Mahheji Park , Delhi-18 
Dolhi. 


74861 

+ + 
30 - 4 - 74 


P . E . 


B /71461 


" Imtihan " (Hindi) 3991 39 (15 ) B . A . Chandiramani, B . A . Chandiramani, 
( Colour) (35 mm .) 

Producer, Now Arts Bombay- 1. 
Pictures, 59 , Dr. V . B . 
Gandhi Marg ., Fort 
Bombay - 1. " 


U 
74862 

- With trianglo mark , 
30 - 4 - 1974 


2224 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [ PART III — Suc. 4 


GENTOR ! 


(1) 


( 3) 


(6 


(6 ) 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 4046 .76 m . 

Cut Reel 
No. No . 

Meters 
1. I : In the introductory sequence establishing a college , delete close 

shot of picturo of a couple kissing on the back of a student and 
its repetitions . . . . . . . . 

1 - 20 
2 . i : Delote tho shot of a student caressing bosom of a girl under a 
tree in the colloge premises : 

3 - 35 
3. I Delete tho underlined words from the following dialogue of 

Rakesh adressed to a girl ; 
“ Majn ladakiyon ko upar haath nahi uthata hoon , jab uthata 
hun to kahan pahunch kar rukata hal yo baaki ladakiyon ko 
puchcho " . . . . . 

. . . . 0 .61 
4 . TV Roduco the scene of Rakesh hitting the students and their thalis 

when tho students return after making complaint to the professor 
about tho quality of food . Dolete the shots of food and dalbeing 
poured over a student who had complained . Reduce considor 
ably tho free for -all betweon two gangs of students, deleting hard 
hitting shots . . 

13 :11 
(Longth retained : 63 . 91 m .) 
5. VI : Delete the scene of a gtudont threatening the invigilator with a 

kalfo . 
( There is , however, no objoction to the scene of knife already 
struck on to the tablo ) 

3 -04 
6 . XIV : Reduce the fight between Prof. Sharma and gang of Rakesh : 3 .65 

( Longth retained : 76 - 16 m .) 
7. Gonoral ; Dolete shots of student indiscipline wherever it is excessive and 
unrealistic . . 

10 . 75 
Volunterily deleted 
Reol X : 18 .05 m . 

VII : 100 m . 
XI : 0 .61 m . 

Length of cuts : 35 -71 m . 
Length of voluntary delotions : 19 .66 m , 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid 

deletions will be : 3991 39 m . in 15 Rools. 
" Phool Na Jana " M /s Intergrity Interna 

Refugal of 
(Hindi) (35 mm .) tional, 66 - Ali Chim 

Certificate 
bors, Tamarind Lane, 
Fort, Bombay-400001 . 

1 - 5 - 74 
" Hot Winds of Free The USSR Congulate 

Rofugal of (Valid for Hindi , 
dom " (16 mm .) ( Col. ) Genoral in Bombay . 

Certificate English , Marathi, 
Bhaveshwar Sagar , 

- Gujarati, Bengali , 
Ist Floor, 20 Jag 

1 -5 -74 Tamil , Talugu , Ma 
mohandas Marg, 

layalam versions.) 
Bombay -400036 . 

U 
" Electro Chemical 256 . 03 (1 ) National Education & Chemical Education 74863 
Cells " (English ) Information Films Material Study . 

to P . E . 
(16 mm .) Ltd . 

1 -5 - 74 


B / 71021 


B /70321- 34 


B /71872 


U 


B /71762 


219 . 46 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


74864 


“ Shapes And Polaritios 
of Moleculo " ( Engli 
sh) (16 mm .) (USA ) 


P . E . 


B /71866 


153 .62 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


1 - 5 - 74 

U 
74865 

u . 
1 -5 - 74 


" Introduction To Ro - 
action Knetics" 
(English ) (16 mm .) 
USA .) 


PĒ 


B /71867 


144 . 78 (1 ) 


U 
74866 


Do , 


Do . 


" Molecular Motiong" 
(English ) ( 16 mm .) 
(USA ) 


P . E . 


1 - 5 - 74 

U 
74867 


B / 71870 


268 22 (1 ) 


Do , 


Do . 


" Ionization Energy " 

(English ) (16 mm . ) 
(USA ) 


P . E . 


1 - 5 - 74 

U 
74868 


B /71871 


280 -42 (1) 


Dox 


" Equilibrium " (Eng.) 
( 16 mm .) (USA ) 


Dor 


Do . 


1 -5- 74 P.E . 


- 


- 


ww - 


- ni. 


PART III Sec. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2225 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


(1) 


(2) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


(6 ) 


U 


B /72007 


74869 


" Mahiti Chitra No . 
182 " (Gujarati) 
(35 mm .) 


146 . 30 ( 1 ) Liaison Officer , Govt. Dir. of Information , 
of Gujarat 

Govt. of Gujarat, 
Gandhinagar, 


- 


1 - 5 - 74 


B / 72027 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1333 " (Southern 
Edition ) (35 mm .) 


303 -58 ( 1) Films Division Govt. Films Division Govt. 

of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay -26 . Road , Bombay- 26 . 


10,7028 


B / 72028 


are gesong Review 1985-860) 


193 .85 ( 1) 


Do . 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1333 " (35 mm ) 


Do. 


Do . 


De 


74870 (Valid for English , 

- Hindi, Tamil, To 
1- 5 -74 lugu , Kannada , & 

Malayalam versions ) 
U 
74871 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
1 - 5 - 74 Gujarati, Assamese 

Oriya , Punjabi, Ben 
gali , Kashmiri, and 
Urdu version ) 


U 


B /72029 


539 . 00 (2 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


" Chhatrapati Shivaji " 
(English ) ( Colour ) 
(35 mm . ) 


P . E . 


74872 

- 
1 - 5 - 74 

U 
74873 


B / 71961 


“ The Athletos" ( Ben - 
gali) ( Colour) (16 
mm .) (Australia ) 


270 .00 ( 1) Australian High Com - 

misslon . Now Delhi. 


Australian Comman 
Wealth Film Unlt . 


4 - 5 - 74 

U 
74874 


B /71962 


120 . 00 (1 ) 


“ Our Land Australia ” 
(Bongal ) (Colour) 
(16 mm .) (Australia ) 


B /71963 


304 .00 1) 


" Sports Medicino " 
(Bengali) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (Australia ) 


4 - 5 - 74 

U 
74875 

4 
4 - 5 - 74 


1 


P . E . 


U 


B /71945 


243 . 8 ( 1) 


74876 


" Australian Report" 
(English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (Australia ) 


B /71918 


182-8(1) 


4 - 5 - 74 

U 
74877 


182 . 8 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


" Nitrogon Fixation by 
Logumos " (English ) 
(Colour) ( 16 mm .) 
(Australia ) 


4 - 5 - 74 


B /71971 


" Escape from tho 

Sea " (English ) (16 
mm .) (UK ) 


U 
614 .78 (0 ) National Education & Wallace Productions 74878 
Information Films Ltd . 

GAH P . E . 
Ltd , 

4 - 5 -74 

U 
698 .90 (6) 

Do. Roy Simpson , 

74879 


B /71992 


" Kadoyng" 
(Colour) 
(UK .) 


(English ) 
(16 mm .) 


4 - 5 - 74 

U 
74880 


B /71878 


" Kora Kagaz " (Hindi) 3649 -67 (14 ) Sanat Kothari, 12 - A 
(Colour ) ( 35 min . ) 

Moti Mansion , 3rd 
Floor, Sth Khotwadi 
Lano, Bombay -4 . 


Sanat Kothari, 12 - A . 
Moti Mansion, 3rd 
Floor, Sth Khotwadi 
Lano , Bombay -4 . 


4 - $ - 74 


А 


B / 71022 


3223 


" Shatranj-Ko-Mohro" 
(Hindi) (Colour ) (35 
mm .) 


3620 -74 (14 ) Ashok Chandra , “ Ro- Shri Aghok Chandra . 

mbrandt" 20 - Palli Hill , 
Bombay- 50 . 


With trianglo mark . 


1 - 3 - 74 


Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 3624 . 44 m . 

Cut. Reel 
No . No . 

Meters 
1 . II : Doloto the following dialogue of Suraj addresed to Manmohan : 
" Saala gaadi chalata hai ya apnimaa ko nachaata hai" ? 

1 - 10 
2. IV : Delete the following dialogue of Rajan addressed to Manmohan : 

“ My dear, Kigan tarjube kaar hona chaahiye kachhi pakki har 
zamoon hal ke ishaare par naachtihai" . 

2 . 60 
Longth of deletions : , , , , , , 

3 . 70 
Actual longth of the Alm after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3620 -74 


YN - 


- - 


2226 


THE GAZFTTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [PART III - _ Sec . 4 . 


* Km 


(1 ) 


( 2 ) 
( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


(( 5 ) 


(6 ) 


( 7 ) 


45 .00 m 
3833 . 90 m in 15 reols . 


Endorsement Under Rule : 34 

1 /71877 
Film " Phir Kab Milogi" (Hindi) 
U - Cert. No. 74809 of 20 -4 - 1974 
Roel VI : Doleted various shots : : : : : : : : 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid dolętlong will bo . 

This certificato was endorsed on 29th April, 1974 . 
B / 71643 
Film : “ Alingan ” (Hindi) (35 mm .) ( Colour ) 
U - Cert. No. 74676 of 27- 3 - 1974. 
Reel No . 9 : Added various shots : : : : : : : : 

13 : Added various shots ; . . . . . . . 

Longth of additions : 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid additions will be · 
This cortificato was endorsed on 2nd May 1974 . 


Motres 


3 


62 . 18 

59 . 13 
121 - 31 
4157 - 17 


CALCUTTA 

NIL 
MADRAS 


M /8572 


67543 


Tumilaadu Govt. Re- 
gional News Bulletin 
No. 115 ( Tamil ) 35 
mm . B & W . Indla . 


305 .00 (1) The Diroctorate of In - The Directorate of In - 

formation & Public formation & Public 
Relations , Madras, Rolations, Madras. 


29 - 4 - 74 


M /8560 


Chavi Match ( Tamil ) 
( Colour ) 35 mm . 
Indla 


41 . 13 ( 1) Sri Vijaya Publicities , Sri Vijaya Publicitics , 
Madras. 

Madras. 


67544 


2 - 5 - 74 

U 
67545 


M /8559 


G . P . Films, Madras. 


" Yoh Chor Yoh Lutero 3724 -34(15) G . P . Films, Madras. 
(Hindi ) 35 mm . B & 
W . India , 


3 - 5 - 74 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 11TH MAY , 1974 

BOMBAY 


U 


B / 71924 


74881 


“ Kapas Ki Uttam 
Phagal Ka Rahasya " 
(Marathi) ( Colour) 
( 16 mm .) 


128 -63 (1) Film Media , 47 -Laxmi Mr. Jyoti G , Thakur. 

Ingurance Bldg., Bom 
bay - 1 . 


7 - 5 - 74 


B /71933 


U 
74882 


" Ungratoful Land " 
( English ) ( Colour) 
(16 mm .) ( Canada ) 


307 .00 ( 1 ) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada , Govt. of - 
Chanakyapuri, New Canada . 
Delhi-21. 


7 - 5- 74 


P , E , 


B /71956 


206 - 00 (1) 


U 
74883 


Do. 


Do . 


" Imprerial Sunset " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(16 mm ) ( Canada ) 


P . E . 


7 - 5 - 74 

U 
74884 


B /71905 


" Trailer of Us Paar " 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
( 35 mm .) 


89 . 91( 1) S . Kamruddin , Co. Bagu Chatterji. 

Bombay Laboratus 
Bombay . 


7 - 5 - 74 


U 


B /72008 


74885 


" Got That Man " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(35 mm ) 


30 . 48 ( 1 ) Shri Gopal K . Maha - Shri S . Şakhdev, Uni 

rosh , Unitod film Arts , ted Film Arts . 
Worli Hill, Bombay . 


7 - 5 - 74 

U 
74886 


B /71958 


Produc 


" Small World " 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm .) ( London ) 


343 .70 ( 1 ) Mr. S . Almeida , Public Athos FUm 

Relation Manager , tions Ltd , 
Air India , Bombay-I . 


P .E . 


7 - 5 - 74 

U 
74887 


B /71976 


" Search Into Whito 
Space " (English ) 
(Colour ) (16 mm . ) 
( Canada ) 


190 .00 ( 1) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada Govt. of - 
Chanakyapuri, Now Canada . 
Dolhi-21 . 


Not P . E . 


8 - 5 - 74 


PART III -SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) 


2227 


In 


- 


- 


( 1 ) 


(2) 


( 5 ) 


(6 ) 


- 


- 


U 


B /71979 


" Paul Kane Goes 
West " ( English ) 
(Colour ) ( 16 min . ) 
( Canada ) 


P . E . 


113 .00(1) Canadian High Commi- National Film Board 

ssion , Shanti Path , of Canada Govt . 
Chanakyapury , New of Canada , 
Delhi- 21 


74888 

- - 
8 - 5 - 74 


U 


B /71998 


183 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


74889 


" Wheat" ( English ) 
(Colour ) (16 mm . ) 
(Canada ) 


Not P . E . 


8 - 5 - 74 


B /71977 


114 . 00 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


" Puberty in Boyg ” 
(English ) (Colour) 
(16 inm .) (Canada ) 


74890 

. - 
8 - 5 - 74 


P . E . 


U 


B /71955 


324 - 00 (1) 


Do. 


Do , 


" Corporation -Growth " 
(English (16 mm .) 
(Canada ) 


74891 

- - 
8 - 5 - 74 


P . E . 


U 


B /71757 


74892 


" Science Report 149. 

A " (English ) ( 16 
mm ) (USA ) 


- 


IL 


PE 


151 . 79 (1) United States Informa- Robert Foster 

tion Şorvice , 4 -Now 
Marino Linos , Bom 
bay - 20 


8 - 5 -74 


U 


B /72054 


" Indian Nows Roviow 
No 1334 " ( 35 mm ) 


167 . 33 (1) Films Division , Govt Films Division , Govt . 

of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 Road , Bombay - 26 


74893 (Valid for English , 

- Hindi, Tamil , Tolu 
8 - 5 - 74 gu , Kannada, Mala 

yalam , Assamoso , 
Oriya , Punjabi, 
Bongai, Kashmiri & 
Uidu vorsions ) 


U 


B /72055 


240 .18(1) 


Do 


Do 


74894 


" Indian News Roviow 
No 1334 " (Westem 
Edition ) (35 mm ) 


8 - 5 - 74 


(Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati , & Sindhi 
versions ) 


B /72057 


U 
74895 


214 - 37 ( 1 ) 


“ Mahitichitra 
No . 183 " Gujrati 
(35 mm .) 


Asstt Dir of informa - Dir of information 
tion , Govt, of Gujarat. Govt, of Gujarat, 


8 - 5 - 74 

U 
74896 


B /71973-7 


" Change" (English ) 
(Colour ) (35 mm .) 


30 -48 (1) S . S , Oberoi, Art Com - S . S . Oboroi, Art Com 
morcia . 

mordia , 


8 -5 -74 

U 
74897 


B /71931 


“ Do Bhai" (Hindi) 
( Colour) (35 m .m .) 


406 . 00 (2) 


Do . 


Do. 


9 - 5 - 74 

U 
74898 


B /72046 


“ Lucknow -My Luc - 
know " (Music only ) 
(35 mm . ) 


42113 (2 ) Suresh Nigam , Film 

Prod , Officer , Uttar 
Pradesh Govt., 
Lucknow . 


Surogh Nigam , Film , 
Prod . Officor , Uttar 
Pradosh Govt., 
Lucknow . 


Not P . E . 


9 - 5 -74 


B / 72061 


31 . 00 (1 ) 


" Then And Now " 
( Quickie ) (English ) 
(35 mm .) 


Films, Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 
of India , 24 - Poddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 , Road , Bombay -26 . 


P . E . 


U 
74899 
- - - 
9 - 5 - 74 

U 
74900 


B /72026 


" Air ” (English ) (Col- 

mm .) 
(Canada ) 


our ) 


( 16 


32 .00 (1) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mision , Shanti Path , of Canada Govt. of 
Chanakyapuri , Now Canada , 
Dolhi-21. 


P . E . 


9 - 5 - 74 


U 
74901 


B / 72062 


288 . 00 ( 1 ) 


" Indian News Roviow 
No . 1334 ( A ) " ( Eng 
lish ) (Hindi) (35 mm .) 


Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 
of India , 24- Poddas of India , 24 - Poddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road, Bombay -26 . 


9 - 5 - 74 


B /72063 


U 
74902 


153 31 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


" Indian Nows Roview 
No . 1334 ( B )" (Eng . 
lish & Hindi) (35mm .) 


9 -5 - 74 


B /72065 


(1) 


U 
74903 


" Without Milk " (Eng. 
lish & Hindi) 
( 35 mm ) 


Do. 


Do 


9 - 5 - 74 


12 - 36961/75 


2228 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [PART I — Sec. 4 


- - 


- - - - 


(3 ) 


(2 ) 


(3 ) 


(6 


(7) 


U 


B / 72051 


74904 


" Trallor of Insaaniyat " 

(Hindi) ( Colour ) (35 
mm ) 


85 - 34 (1 ) I. V . Films Corpora - Jagdish Varma, 4- A 

tion , 4 - A Ravalpen - Rayalpendi Bldg , 
diwala , Bldg , Tri- Tribhuvan Road , 
bhuvan Road , Bom Bombay-4 
bay -4 


10 - 5 - 74 


U 


B /71954 


" Corporation -Bilingua - 
lism " (English ) (16 
mm ) (Canada ) 


324 - 00 (1) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada , Govt. of 
Chanakyapuri , Now Canada , 
Dolhi-21 


74905 
10 -5- 74 


Not P . E . 


U 


B /71974 


90 .00 ( 1) 


Do 


Do. 


74906 


Fomale Cyclo" ( Eng : 

lish ) (Colour ) (16 
mm ) ( Canada ) 


PE 


10 - 5 - 74 


B /71953 


166 .00 (1) 


Do 


U 
74907 


Do . 


P . E 


" Child Behaviour, 

You " ( English ) 
( Colour ) (16 mm ) 
(Canada ) 


10 -5 -74 


T 


B /71743 


" Sapkalp " (Hindi) 3494 82 (14 ) Twinklo Stars, 307 - Twinkle Stars, Bom 
(Colour) ( 35 mm .) 

Hind Rajasthan bay - 14 . 
Bldg ., Bombay - 14 . 


74908 

- 
10 - 5 - 74 


With triangle mark 


Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 3494 82 m , 

Cur 
No . No. 


Reel 


Metres 


1 . 


0 - 50 


2 . 


4 .15 


3. 


VII ; Delete tho viows of Ramosh kissing a hippio giul. (Roplacod with 

approved shot : 0 . 50 m . ) . . 
VIJL : In the danco sequence in hiopios don . dolete the close views of 

shaking of busis and midriffs by girls and also shots of close 
physical proximity betweon malo and female hippies, (Roplacod 

with approved shot : 4 . 15 m .) . . . . 
IX : Delete the words " Member of Parliamont " and " Member of 

Assembly " whilo introducing corrupt men at a party in tho 
house of Harkishundas. (Doletod sound only ) (Roplaced with 

approved words ). 
XT In tho hippio dance, sequence delete the shots of couplos 

making love either standing or lying on tho sand , kooping 
only a few unobjectionabjo flashos . Doloto scratching of arm 
for blooding it and also roduce considerably Ramesh sucking 

the blood . (Replaced with approvod shols : 6 - 36 m .) . 
Longth of deletions : 11 .01 m . 
Length of approvod roplacoment : 11 .01 m . 
Longth of the film romains unchanged l. e , 3494 . 82 m . in 14 reols . 


4 , 


636 


B /71873 


" Tho First Day Of 280 . 00 ( 1 ) National Educational Los Films du Levant 

3224 
Lifo " (Les Promiers & Inforry . tjon Films 

S P . E . 
Jaurs Da Lavie) ( Eng Ltd , 

10 - 5 - 74 
lish ) ( Colour) ( 16 mm .) 
Endorsement Under Rule 34 : 
B /71859 

Film : " Now Glimpses of Delhi” (Hindi) 
U - Cort. No. 74705, of 29-3- 1974. 

This certificate is also yalid for English vorsion ofthe film in colour, The longth of tho film remains unchangod . 

This cortificato was endorsed on 7th May, 1974 , 
B /71632 

Film : "When Droam Comes Truo" (English ) 
U - Cert . No , 74656 of 25- 3 -1974 

Rool No. 1 - Deleted yarious shots : 22 -00 m . 
Reol No . II : Deleted various shots : 40 .00 m . 
Length of dolotions : 62 . 00 m , 
Actual length of the film after tho afortsajd dolotions will be : 360 .00 m in 2 rools . This certificatc was 
endorsed on 8th May , 74 . 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PART III — SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) 


2229 


- 


- 


- - - - 


( 5 ) 


(6 ) 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


i 


B / 71007 

Fin : " KahaniHum Subb Ki” (Hindi) (Colour) 
U -Cert. No, 74158 of 31- 12- 1973. 

Reel No. 2 ; Deleted various shots : 8 : 53 Mts . 
Reel No . 13 : Deleted various shots : 11 .28 Mts , 

Longth of doletions : 19 .81 Mts . 

Actual length of the film after aforesaid dolotic ns will be : 3799 -33 m . 
This certificate was ondorsed on 8th May , 1974 , 
B /71643 

Film : " Alingan " (Hindi) 
U - Cert . No. 74676 of 27 - 3 -1974 

Metres 
Reel No . II : Deleted various shots 

. . . . . , 36 -58 
TV : Deleted various shots ; 

27 . 73 
V : Deleted various shots 

28 - 96 
VI. Deleted various shots 

33 - 53 
XII : Deleted various shots 

20 -73 
XIIL : Deletd various shots 

20 :42 
XIV : Deleted various shots 

70 -41 
XV : Dleted various shots 

48 .77 
XVI : Deleted various shots 

4511 
Length of deletions : 332 -24 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforsaid deletions will be : 3824 .93 in . in 16 reels , 

This certificato was endorsed on 9th May 1974 . 
B /71600 

Film : " Do Numbor Ko Ameer " (Hindi) 
A - Cort, No. 3222 of 11-4 - 1974 

Metres 
Reel No . Deleted various shots 

8 . 84 
VIII : Deleted various shots . . . 

35 36 
XIII : Deleted various shots 

11 - 89 
XV ; Deleted various shots 

13 . 41 
XVI : Deleted various shots 

35 .97 
XVII : Deleted various shots . . . . . 

58 .52 
Length of deletions : 163 -99 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid delotions will be ; 3792 .29 m . 

This certificato was endorsed on 9th May, 1974 . 
B /69853 

Film : " Aavishkar " (Hindi) 
U - Cort , No. 73532 of 26 -9 - 1973 . 

Merres 
Reel No . ; Deleted various shots 

29 . 25 
III : Deleted various shots , . 

1 . 22 
VI Deleted various shots 

11 . 58 
VII : Deleted various shots 

16 . 76 
X : Deleted various shots 

94 . 79 
XII ; Deleted various shots 

3 . 66 
Length of deletions : 157 - 26 m . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3083 -38 m . 

This certificate is valid with or without above alteration . This certilicate was endorsed on 9th May, 1974 
B /71487 

Film : " Dost" (Hindi) (Colour ) 
U -Cert, No. 74746 of 8 -41974 . 
Corrections : 

The name of the applicant may be read as M / s . Suchitra instead of Mr. Premnath Manchanda. 
This certificato was cndorsed on 10th May , 1974 . 

- - - 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


2230 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART 1 - SEC . 4 


- 


3 


4 


hy 


CALCUTTA 

Nil 
MADRAS 


M / 8558 


P . 


U 
67546 


Ali , 


Naya Din Nai Raat 3781 -56 ( 14) Janu Pictures , Madras Shri N . 
(Hindi) 35 mm . Col. 

Madras. 
India . 


7 - 5 - 74 


M /8974 


$ 


Chattakkari (Mala - 3732 -89 ( 15) Manjilas Cine Enter - Manjilas Cine Enter - 67547 
yalann ) 35 mm , 

prises , Madras. 

prises , Madras . 
Colour . India 

7 - 5 -74 with Cuts 
Endorsement on cert No . 67547-U dt. 7th May, 1974 - issued to the film Chattakkari (Malayalam ) (Colour). 
Longth applied : 3733 -80 Metres , 
Cuts . 

Metres 
1. Reel 1 - Delete the words " Bloody Indians wherever it occurs . 

(Sound only ) . . . . . . . . . . 
2 . Reel 6- Delete the word " Dog" from tho oxpression “ Indian dog" . 

(Soundonly ) . 
3 . Reel 7 – Delete tho words " Bloody Indians” in the dialogue and 
the word " Dog " . 

0 . 91 
4 . Reel 12 – Delete the word " Dog " . (Sound only ). . , , 

Total : 0 -91 


U 


India . 


Actual length of the film will bc 3732 - 89 Metres in 15 Reels . 
M /8554 "Gauravam ( Telugu ) 3804 . 20 (15 ) Anand Movies, Anand Movies , 67548 
( Colour) 35 mm . 

Madras , Madras . 

10 - 5 - 74 

U 
M /8535 "Andharu Dongale 4222 -00 (15) Pallavee Productions, Pallavoo Productions, 67549 
( Tolugu ) (Colour ) 

Madras . 

Madras , 
35 mm . India . 

10 - 5 - 74 

U 
M /8573 

Bhatti Vikramaditya’ 4433 61( 16 ) Shri Ram Films, Ban - Shri Ram Filns, Ban - 67550 
(Kannuda ) 35 mm . 

galoro . 

galoro. 
B & W . India . 

10 - 5 - 74 
Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certification by the Central Board of Censors During the Week ending the 18th May 1975 

BOMBAY 

U 
B / 72049 " Textiles of India " 331 - 01 B . R . Films, Andand B . R , Films, Andand 74909 
(English ) (Colour ) 

( 1 ) Villa , 13th Road , Villa , 15th Road , - 
(35mm .) , 

Bombay -54 . Bombay - 54 . 

13 - 5 -74 

U 
B /72067 " Trailer of Kora 76 . 50 Shreeji Films, Air Sanat Kothari . 

74910 
Kagaz" (Hindi) 

Conditioned 
(Colour) (35mm .) Markot, Bombay - 34 

13 - 5 - 74 

U 
B /71980 " Trailor of Bazaar 98 .46 S . Kamruddin , 

B . R . I . Arts 

74911 
Band Karo " (Hindi) (1 ) 

Bombay . 

Universal. 
( Colour) (35mm .) 

13 - 5 - 74 

U 
B /72086 " Indian Nows Ro- 300 . 00 Films Division , Films Divisions, 74912 ( Valid for English 
view No . 1335" Govt. of India , Govt. of India , - 

Hindi, Kashi 
(Northern Edition ) 

24 - Peddar Road , 24 Poddar Road , 14 - 5 - 74 miri , Punjabi 
(35ınm .) 

Bombay - 26 . Bombay - 26 , 

& Urdu , ver 
sions .) 


B / 72087 


200 . 00 


Do . 


Do . 


74913 


" Jadian News Re- 

view No. 1335 " 
(35mm .) , 


14 - 5 - 74 


( Valid for English , 
Hindi, Marathi 
Gujarati, Tamil, 
Tolugų , Kannada , 
Malayalam , Ass & 
mese, Oriya & 
Bengal versions) 


U 
74914 


B / 72056 


80 . 78 


triangle 


4Trailer of Inter 

national Crook " 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
( 35mm .) 


With 
mark 


P , S . Pictures , 205 - 

Famous Cine Bldg . 
Bombay . 


( 1 ) 


P . S . Pictures , 205 

Famous Cino Bldg , 
Bombay . 


14 - 5 - 74 


PART III — SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2231 


- - 


( 2 ) 


(5) 


6 


(7) 


Endorsement 
Original Length : 82 .00m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
I I : Reduce considerably the impact of violence : 1 -22 m . 

( Deleted complitely) 
Length of deletions : 1 . 22m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesald deletion will be 80 . 78 m . 


B / 72006 


" Symphony " 

lish ) (35mm .) 


(Eng - 


90 .00 


Madhusudan Kumar, 
62- Goetanjali, 
Colaba , Bombay-s . 


Madhusudan Kumar, 

Bombay - 5 . 


U 
74915 

- 
14 - 5 - 74 


P . E . 


U 


16 


b /71972 


331 - 93 


“ The Limits to 

Growth " (Englisla ) 
(Colour ) ( 16mni.) 


United States In - 

formation Service, 
4 -New Marin Lines, 
Bombay - 20 . 


U , S , Information , 

Agency. 


Agenormation, 


74916 

– 
14 - 5 - 74 


P .E . 


U 


B /72047 


Do. 


74917 


" Challonge For 

Chango " ( Eng - 
lish ) ( Colour) 
( 16mm .) (USA ) 


318 82 

( 1 ) 


George R . Pitt / 

A . H . Perlmuttor. 


Not P . E . 


14 - 5 - 74 


B /72048 


268 -83 

(1 ) 


Do . 


" Vision USA 23" 

(English ) ( Colour ) 
( 16mm .) (USA ). 


Thomas Craven . 


P . E . 


U 
74918 

— 
14 - 5 - 74 

U 
74919 
- .. - 

14 - 5 -74 


B /71960 


120 . 00 


Australian High 

Commission . 


Australian 

inonwcalth 
Unit. 


Com - 
Film 


" The Kangaroos - 

Part - II Varieties " 
(Bengali ) (Colour) 
( 16mm .) (Australia ) 


P . E . 


U 


B /71959 


Do . 


Do . 


74920 


" The Kangaroos 

Part- I Biography " 
(Bengali) ( Colour ) 
( 16mm .) (Australia ) 


120 . 00 

(1 


- 


P . E . 


14 - 5 - 74 


B / 72095 


" The Price you Pay " 

( English ) ( 35mm .) 


79 . 55 


U 
74921 

- 
14 - 5 - 74 


Films Division , Films Division , 
Govt . of India , Govt . of India , - 
24 - Peddar Road , 24 - Peddar Road , 
Bombay - 26 . 

Bombay- 26 . 


P . E . 


U 


B / 72099 


398 - 15 

(1) 


Do . 


" A Few more Ques- 

tions " (Hindi) 
( 35mm .) 


Do. 


Do. 


P . E . 


74922 

– 
14-5 - 74 

U 
74923 

- - 
16 - 5 - 74 


B /71952 


" Cry of The Wild " 

( English ) ( Colour ) 
( 16mm ) 


1026 -00 

(3 ) 


P . E . 


Canadian High Com - National Film Board 
mission , Shanti of Canada , 
Path , Chankya 
puri, New Delhi-21. 


U 


B /8544 


" Maha Bhakta 

Tukaram " 
(Marathi) ( Colour ) 
(35mm ) (Madras) 


4356 -21 

( 17 ) 


74924 


M /s. Anjali Com - M /s. Anjali Pictures, 
bines, " 2 , Pughs Combine . 
Road , Madras- 28 . 


16 - 5 - 74 


B /71812 


With 

mark . 


trianglo 


U 
" Insaaniyat" (Hindi) 3821 89 Jagdish Varma, J. V . Jagdish Varma, J. V . 74925 
(Colour) (35mm .) (15) Films, Corporation , Films Corporation , 

- 
4 - A , Ravalpindi 4 - A , Ravalpindi- 16 - 5 - 74 
wala Bldg., 

wala Bldg., 
Bombay -4 . 

Bombay -4 , 
Endorsement 
Original Length : 3864 - 24m . 
Cut Reel 
No . No. 

Metres 
1. I : * Reduce tho shots of a teacher beating a young student with cane to only 
two timos. 

• . 2 . 44. 
(Length retained : 1 :52m .) 
2 . II : (a ) Delete the shots of magazine cover with a nude photograph . , 3 35. 

( Replaced with approved shots : 3 . 35m . ) 

(6 ) Delete reference to " Shaikh Abdulla " . . . . . . 3 . 96m , 
3. IV : Delete the word " Bastard " uttered by Lina to Dilip (Indisguiso of Ab 

dulla ) who is sitting on the trco top . (Sound ) 


- 


- 


2232 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [ PART III — SEC , 4 

-- - - - --- - - - - - -- - - - --- - - - - - - 


= - 


= 


- 


= 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- - ven . 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


( ROH 


(4 ) 

(6 ) 
- - - 

- - - - - - 
4. V : During the song " Main tumse pyar karta hoon ” , delete the impression of 
Leena kissing Dilip . . 

1 22m . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 1 . 22m .) 
VI : (a ) Delete the view of Ragliuvir killing a jail warder nçar the gate. . 7 .62m , 

(6 ) in the scenes of killing of children by Raghuvir delete all the symbolic 
shots except the first shot . . . . . . . . 

3 04m . 
VII : Delete both the views of Michael Parrora s mouth with blood oozing out 
after he is killed in the accident . . . . . . . 

3•35m . 

3 SJID 
IX : * Reduce the shot of Raghuvir dying and also the impact of killing of children 

shown in Hash back when Raghuvir recollects them while dying . - 12 . 19m . 

(Length retained : 7 .62m . ) 
8 . XII : Delete the view , of Leona kissing Dilip on the cheok. . 

· 0 .61m . 
9 . XIII : Dilip and Ram are imprisoned for alleged murder of Rughuvir but they 

are taken in Police Jccp without hand cuffs and allowod to escape . This 
noeds to be modificd , otherwise it presents a poor picture of the ad 
ministrators of Law . . 

7 - 62m . 
( Deleted , . . . .) (Modified ; 3 . 66m .) 
10 . XIV & * Reduce the view of Sandow being trampled by an elephant to a flash - 1 . 22m . 

(Length retained : 0 .61m . ) 
Reduce the impact of fight at the end by reducing sound effects of shricks , 
close punches , blood on face etc . 

, 3 . 96m . 
( Length retained ; 24 . 08m .) 
Length of deletions : 50 - 58m . 
Length of replacement and additions 823m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesald deletions will be : 3821 •89m . 
In 15 reels . 


XY * 


B /71849 


74926 

- - 
17 - 5 - 74 


With triangle 

mark . 


" Hanuman ijay 3877 -67 Basant Pictures , 

Basant Pictures , 
Yang Jai Shri (14 ) 136 -Chamarbaug Bombay - 12 . 
Ram " (Hindi 

Road , Parel, Bom 
( Colour) (35mm .) 

bay - 12 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3883 . 16r . 
Cut Reel 
No . No. 
1 . ( [ ; Delete the words “ Kya hoga - wahi. . jo hota aya hai wohi hoga " ag said 

by Sahi in the disguise of a girl whilo taking the fat man to bod . (De 

leted sound only ) (Replaced with approved sound) 
2 . V : Delete the underlined words from tho dialogue " Maaf keo jiye --- Necche 

khujla diyu " as spoken by Sahi to Ahi Rayan while massaging his legs . 

( Deleted sound only) (Replaced with approved sound ) 
3 V ; Reduce the torture of Chandrasena with flames in close ups. . . . 

(Length retained : 3 - 36m .) 


3 . 05m . 


4 XIV : Reduce the number of lashing on Chandrasena when she is tortured by 
Mahadevi. . . . . . 

. 2 .44m 
(Length retained : 3 .05m .) 
Length of deletions : 5 .49m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3877 -67m . 

U 
" Philips" ( Lights ) 30 - 48 Kieth Allams, 3 -Cool- lui Keith Allams, 74917 
(English ) (Colour ) (1 ) Apartments , 

M / S , Kappa . 
( 35mm .) Bombay-50 

18 - 5 - 74 


B / 72053 


B /72064 


" Trailer of Jurm 
“ Aur Sazaa " (Hindi) 
Colour ) (35mm .) 


91 .44 

( 1) 


B , K . Sharma, 

Young Techni- 
cians , Kochar 
Bhavan , Bombay - 52 . 


B . K . Sharma, 
Young Techni- 
cians , Kochat - 
Bhavan , Bombay- 52 . 


U 
74928 

- - 
18 -5 - 74 


B /72021 


" The Egg " (Music 

only ) with Titles 
in English (Colour ) 
(16mm . ) (Canada .) 


63 . 00 

( 1) 


Canadian High Con - National Films 
mission , Shanti Board of Canada . 
Path , Chankyapuri, Govt. of Canada . 
New Delhi -21. 


U 
74929 

- 
18 - 5 - 74 


P . E . 


U 


B / 72019 


46 -00 


Do . 


Do . 


" Ensembles , Des ” 
Music only with 
Titles in Prench ) 
(Colour ) 
(Canada .) 


74930 

- Not P . E . 
18 - 5 - 74 


- - 


- 


2233 


PART III — SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

( 4 ) 

(5) 


(2 ) 


B /71914 


" Hard Rider " (Eng- 

(Colour ) 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 


653 -00 

(2 ) 


Not P, E . 


Canadian High Comm |- National Films 
ssion , Shanth Path , Board of Canada 
Chankyapuri , 

Govt, of Canada , . 
New Delhl-21, 


A 
3225 
16 -5 - 74 


B / 71101 


With triangle 
Mark , 


" Free Love " (Hindi) 3974 -59 Priya Kala Chitra , Sarvjcct , 138 

3226 
(Colour) ( 35mm .) ( 15 ) 

138 - Famous Cine Famous Cine Bldg . , - - - 
Bldg ., Bombay - 11. Bombay - 11, 

17 - 5 - 74 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 4006 96m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1. L : Reduce Prominent view of Asha s Face and body waist upwards whilo 
tightly held by a killer . 

0 - 20m . 
(Length retained : 0 . 91m .) 
2. 1 : Reduce the prominent shot of the girl s dead body with blood on her 

skirt lying on the rocks. . . . . . . . . 0 .52 

( Lạngth retained ; 122m ) 
III : Delete Mohan s dialoguo addressed to Gecta " Jo tumhare andar hai 

we bahar laao " While taking about changing her dress . . . . 122m . 

(Replaced with approved dialogue : 1 . 22m .) 
4. JII : Reduce shots whore Bandookwala looks suggestively at Geeta when 

sho enters Mohan s Office and delete his subsequont dialoguo : 
" (Garmi hoti hai to goli khaa lçta hoon ." 

. 2 48m . 
(Replaced with approved dialogue : 0 .65m . ) 
5 . III Delete the double meaning dialogue betwoen a girl and Bandookwala 

when sho says " Tumharo bandookmen goli nahi hai. . . . . . . khelno 
ke kitno tariko hai . . . . etc . . . . . . . . 

.. 

1 10m . 
(Replaced with dialogue : 1 . 10m .) 
6 . V : In the clubdance performed by Rita , delete the beginning shots where 

she moves her foot upwards along Mohan s leg and makes indecorous 
movements of her logs and midriff. 

4 .78m . 
(Replaced with approved shots ; 4 . 78m .) 
7 . VII : Delete Mohan s dialogue addressed to Geeta while wanting to here sex 

with her : " Jitna khowogi usse kitne gunu jyada tum powogi" . , , 2 . 13m 

(Replaced with approved dialogue : 0 .61 m .) 
: Delete tho indecorous portion of the shot when Lily is talking to a fat 
man impersonating as officer , , , , , , , , 

1 10 . 
(Roplaced with approved shots : 1 . 10m .) 
IX : Reduce the scene in which Geeta is forcibly made to drink and the last 
shot of Goota when camera is focussed on her breast. 

, 7 . 23m . 
(Replaced with approved shots 0 .61m .) 

(Length retained : 13 . 81m .) 
: Delete Mohan s remark addressed to Geeta " Tum kalise phool han 
gayoc ho " . 

. . . . . . . . . . 9 : 14m . 
11. XI. Delete the underlined word from the following dialogue of Mohan 

" Free love ki is Zamane mcn masocmiyat bhi frec aur ladkivan bhi 

free hain " . 3 , 31m . (Replaced with approved word ) . . . . . 3 . 31 m . 
12 . XI : Reduce the soche of Ramesh being beatenup by Mohan s goondas. : 3 . 96m . 

( Length rotainod : 14 .85m .) 
13 . XI Delete the portion of the shot showing Geeta caressing her thigh in the 
foreground while reclining on bed . " 

. . . . . 2 .28m . 
(Replaced with approved shoty : 0 -30m .) 
XI : Delete Ramesh s dialoguo “ Apna to dharma hai Free Love" . . , 1 . 22m . 

(Replaced with approved dialogue : 1 .22m .) 
15. XI : Delete Rita s dialogue " Aaj Apni pyas doorse buzaiye aap ke ban 

dook men goli nahin hai," addressed to Bandookwala . . . . 4 . 85m . 

(Replaced with approved shot : 3 . 05m .) 
16 . XII Delete Bandookwala s dialogue " Na aata to malum kaise hotu more 

bandookmen goli hai ya nchin " addressed to Rita when he surprises 
hor at Juhu Beach . . . . . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 2 . 37m .) 


. 


. 


. 


2 . 37m . 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


2234 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [ Part III- SEC , 4 , 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


(6) 


(7) 


17. Reduce the scene when Rita is being stabbed by Bandookwala and delete his 

dialoguo " Main mori pyas bujhake rakhoonga , chahe tumhare mar 
noke baad . . . . . 

7 . 9211. 
(Replaced with approved shots: 4 .79m .) 

(Longth retained : 23 .62m . ) 
18 . XIV : Reduce tho scone in which Bandookwala tortures Geeta and slashes 
a knife at her ropeatedly . 

. . . 1 .67 m . 
(Deleted completly ) 
Length of deletions : 57 . 48m . 
Length of the roplacement : 25 48m . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions and replacement 
will be : 3974 . 59m . 

ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34. 
B /72070 - 74 

Film : “ Happy Family " (Hindi) (Colour ) 
U -Cert. No . 74644 datod 22 -3 - 1974 . 

This certificate is also valid for Bengali, Tamil, Telugu Kannada and Malayalam yersions 
of the filin in colour . The longth of the film romains unchanged . This certi 

ficatę was endorsed on 13th May , 1974 
B /72080 -84 
Film : Little Champ (Hindi) (Colour) 
U -Cort. No . 74647 dated 22 -3 - 1974 . 

This certificate is also valid for Bengali , Tamil, Telugu , Kannada and Malayalam 
versions of the film in colour. The length of the film romains unchanged . " This 

certificate was endorsed on 13th May 1974 , 
B /72075 -79 
Film : " The Trip " (Hindi) (Colour) 

U - Cert. No . 74645 dated 22 - 3 - 1974 . 
This certificato is also valid for Bengali , Tamil, Telugu , Kannada and Malayalam 
vorsions of the film in colour , The length of tho film fomnaing unchanged . This 
certificato was ondorsod on 13th May 1974 . 


CALCUTTA 


C /8014 


Manihara ( Bengali ) 

( 35mm ) India . 


1 ,636 . 78 

( 7 ) 


Chhayabani Private 

Ltd , 77 , Dharam - 


Satyajit Ray Pro - 

ductions ( P ) Ltd . 
1 / 1Bishop 
Lefroy Road , 
Calcutta - 20 


U 

73420 
- . 
16 - 5 - 74 


tal St. , Cal.- 13. 


MADRAS 


U 


M /8594 


305 .00 

(1 ) 


" Tamilnadu Govt . 

Regional News 
Bulletin No . 116 
( Tamil) ( 35mm ) 
B & W . India . 


The Directorate 

Information 
& Public Relations 
Madras, 


of 


The Directorate 67551 

of Information - 
& Public Relations 14 - 5 - 74 
Madras. 


U 
67552 


With cuts . 


M /8513 


15 - 5 -74 


Prem Nagar (Hindi) 4658 - 87 Vijaya & Suresh Shri D . Rama Naidu , 

(Colour) (35mm .) (18 ) Combines, Madras . Madras. 

India . 
Endorsement on certificate No. 67552 -U dated 15-5 -74 issued to the film Prem Nagar " 
(Hindi) ( Eastmancolour ) (35mm . ) 
Longth in the application , 4670 - 73Mts . 
Cuts . 

1. Reel 5 - Delete the whipping of the farmer by Shamsher. . . . . . 
2 . Reel 8 - Delete the sontence of Takat Ram " Aajkal Sarkaren to lottery par chalati 
hain aur desh ko lottory pai chalate hain " . . 

. . . . 
Total . . . 


Metres, 
3 . 64 


8 . 22 


11 . 66 


M /8580 


67353 

- - - with cuts , 
15 - 5 - 74 


Actual length of the film will be 4658 . 87 Metres in 18 Reels . 
Night Duty 

3896 -04 Evershino Pro - Evershing Pro . 
(Malayalam ) 

(15 ) 

ductions, Madras . ductions, Madras . 
(35mm .) B & W ., 

India . 
Endorsement on cortificate No. 67553 - Ų datod 15th May 1974 — Issued to the film Night 
Duty (Malayalam ) (35mm .) B & W . 
Longth applied . 3960 - 40 Metres. 


- 


— 


. ----- - - - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


PART III — _ SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2235 


- - 


-- 


- - 


- 


2 


-* 


--- 


- - 

- 


6 


- 


7 


[ 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


Metrec 


20 . 70 


2 .43 


7 . 30 


19 - 20 


Cuts. 
1 . Reci 4 . Delete all words and action of the Christian preacher except the refer 

ence to the murder . . . . . . . . . . . 
? Rred 5 - Delete the vulgar actions of the Nambudiris in " Tirliynthira Kuli song " . 
3 . Reel 6 - Delete the dialogue " If I can milk a cow that has not calved , I can milk 

you " . 

“ I know how to deal with a girl ". 
4 Reel 7 – Delete the dialogue :— " Even if you don t.. . I want your middle " ( in the 

hotel room ) . . 
Also delete all dialogue betweon husband and wife after the two hotel 

attendants leave the room 
5. Reel 7 – Delete Panicker without dhoti in the hotel room . . . . . . 
6 . Reel 8 — Reduce the alteration of Police with gamblers to a Nash . . . , 
7 . Reel - - Delete the shot of Nambudiri with a woman after the arrival of Vimala ; 

parents. 
8. Reel 11 - Delete Nainbudiri punching his wife on the abdomen . . . . . 
9 . Reel 12 - Delete the dialogues between Krishnan Kutty and Rajamma : 

" you can undress ino in the room " said in tl vulagar way . . . . i. e , you c .in 
catch hold of the "Kuthu inside tho room . . . . . . . 

Total , , , 


2 . 13 
8 :52 


2 . 74 
0 .91 


2 -43 
66 - 36 


Actual length of the film will be 3896 -04 Metres in 15 Reels . 


M /8597 


129 -53 

(1 ) 


M /s . Vijaya & Suresh 

Combines , Madras , 


Shri D . Rama Naidu , 

Madras, 


67554 


Trailer of Prem 
Nagar " (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35mm . ) 
India , 


- G 


- 


- 


18 - 5 - 74 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSOR 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING 25TH MAY , 1974 
BOMBAY 

U 
B /71971 " Trailer of Kahani 75 - 28 MS Shankar Films, 

Shri Rajkumar Kohli , 74931 
Hum Sab Ki” 

( 1 ) 227 - Famous Cinç M / s Shankar Films --- 

With triangle 
(Hindi) (Colour) Bldg . , Bombay - 1 . Bombay - 1 . 

20 - 5- 74 mark . 
( 35mm .) 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 88 .08m . 
(Length retained 2 .44n . ) 
Reduce the impact of violence considerably Voluoterily deleted , 

2 . 441. 
(Length retained 2 - 44m . ) 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 75 - 28m . 


B /72102 


74932 


" Trailor of Imtihan " 

(Hindi) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) 


88 . 39 

(1 ) 


M / S Film Effects, M / s . Film Effects, 

Fanious Cine Bldg., Famous Cine Bldg., 
Boinbay - 11. 

Bombay - 11 . 


20 - 5 - 74 

U 
74933 


20 - 5 - 74 


With triangle 

mark . 


Metres 


1 - 22m . 


B / 71930 " Anjaan Raahen " 3560 .41 Mohan Films, 

Mohan Sablouk 
(Hindi) (Colour) (15 ) 

Sablok Mansion , Mansion , 
(35mm .) 

Bombay - 52 . 

Bombay -52 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3600 -59 mts . 
Cut Reel 
No . No . 
1 . Iſi : In the class -room scquenco , delete the two ropcated close shots of a 

magazine with nude photographs of women in it , retaining the first 
shot when it is held by Rukesh , for the sake of continuity . . . . 
(Length retained : 0 . 91m . ) 

(Replaced with approved shots : 1 .06m . ) 
2 . IL : Delete the last shot of mouse moving on thc Matron s leg and trying 

to go above under the patticoat. . . . . . . , 
3 III Delete the vulgur actions of a boy rubbing and pinching the buttock of 

his girl partner while dancing. . . . . . . . 
4 . VIII : Reduce the fight between Gautain and Villain Raju and his mçn , de 

leting close shots of hits on face, stomach and head , and also some 
kicks by leg . . . . . . . . . . . . 
( Length retained : 14 . 63m .) 

- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - 
13 --- 369 G1/ 75 


0 . 45m . 


0 . 54m . 


11 28m . 


- - 


- - - 


-- -- 


- 


- 


2236 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) (PART III — Sec . 4 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


I 


- 


- - 


7 


- - - - -- 


- - - -- - - - --- - 


- - 


-- 


- 


5 . 


IX 


al intimacy; pred lengthy m . prolonged 
deleting the sukiss, two partinands showing are minimum necessar ? 15 .61m . 


6 . 


X 


: Reduce considerably the lovc -making scene of Rajen and Sunceta by 

delering the shots of their physical intimacy , particulaily very Intimate 
sliggestion of kiss, two partially camouflagecl lengthy shots of actual 
kissing, extreme close up of hands showing orotic actions, prolonged 
diffuscal shot suggesting sexual act, keeping the bare minimum necessary 
for continuity . , 

(Length retained : 26 .91m .) 
: (u ) In the attempted rape of Geeta by Raju recluce drastically the shot 

of their rolling over eaclı other, . . . . . 4 - 07m . 

(Deleted completely ) 
( h ) Reduce the fight between Raju and Anand by deleting the gruesomo 

visuals of hard hits on the face & stomach and kicks by leg . . 8 -07m . 
(Length retained : 3 -81m .) 
Length of deletions : 41 - 24m . 
Length of the replacement 1 .06m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesald deletions and replace 
ments will be 3560 . 41m . in 15 Reels. 


U 


B / 72085 


30 .48 


" Shaver Swish " 

(English ) (Colour ) 
( 35mm . ) 


M /s Television Radio 

& Motion Pictures 
6 - A -Rashmi Car- 
maiclo Road , 
Bombay - 26 . 


M /s Television Radio 74934 

& Motion Pictures - - - 
6 - A - Rashmi Car- 21 - 5 - 74 
maicle Road , 
Bombay - 26 . 


U 


B / 72096 


“ Swish " (Hindi) 

(Colour ( 35mm .) 


30 .48 


Do. 


Do . 


74935 


21- 5 - 74 


B /72097 


30 - 48 


Do. 


Do , 


Do. 


74936 


" You Can t Boat 

The Man Wlio 
Shaves with Swish " 
(Gujarati) ( Colour) 
(35mm .) 


21 - 5 -74 


U 


B / 71997 


30 .48 


" The Sweet Way 

to Growth " (Eng 
ligh ) (Colour) 
(35mm . ) 


M /s Trio 

Jyoti 
Kennedy 
Bombay - 7. 


Films, M /s. Trio 
Studios Jyoti 
Bridge, Kennedy 

Bombay - 7. 


Films, 74937 
Studios, – 
Bridge , 21 -5 -74 


B /72020 


117 . 00 

( 1 ) 


74938 


" Harycsting" (Music 

only with Titled 
in English ( Co 
lour) (16mm . ) 
( Canada ) 


Canadian High Com - 
mission , Shanti 
Path , Chanakya 
puri , New Delhi-20 . 


National Film Board 

of Canada , 
Govt. of Canada , 


P . E . 


21- 5 - 74 


U 


B /72015 


73 .00 

( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


74939 

— 
21 - 5 - 74 


P . E . 


B / 72014 


" Mirage" (Music 

only , titles in 
English ) ( Colour) 

(16mm .) (Canada ) 
“ N Adjustez Paz" 

(Don t Adjust it) 
(Music only with 
titles in English ) 
(Colour ) ( 16mm ) 
(Canada ) 


31 .00 


Do. 


Do . 


U 
74940 

- 
21- 5 - 74 


P . E . 


B /72059 


U 
74941 

- - With 
21 - 5 - 74 mark 


trianglo 


" Balak Dhruy " 3631 . 98 Hadoti Films, 

Shivaji Mane, 
(Hindi) (Colour) ( 15 ) 

Jyoti Studio , 

Madan & Kailash 
(35mm .) 

Kennedy Bridge , Sharma Bombay . 

Bombay - 7. 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3651 - 80m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No . 
1 . IX : ( 0 ) Delete the reference to " Laghu shanka " and duergha Shanka " 

in the dialogues botween the children and an elderly inmate of the 

ashram . . . . . . . . . . . . 
( 6 ) Deleic the sexy action of the girl trying to attract the attention of 

the comedian character in the ashram . Also delete the inde 
cont quatures of the comedian . , 
SUNLUIGS OILIQ QOIIculail . 

.. 

, 

. 
Length of deletions : 19 .82m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 
3631 . 98m . in 15 Reels . 


13 . 721 . 


6 ·10m , 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


PART fil - Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2237 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - - - 


- -- 


- -- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


U 


B /72018 


172 . 00 

( 1) 


" Entre Cell Et Neige 

(Between Sky And 
snow ) (Music only 
with Titles 10 
French (Colour ) 
(16mm .) Canada ) 


Canadian High Com - National Films 74942 
mission , Shanti Board of Canada , - - - Not P . E . 
Path , Chanakya - Govt. of Canada . 21 - 5 - 74 
puri, New Delhi-20 . 


B /72017 


232 .00 


Do . 


Do . 


U 
74943 

- - 
21 - 5 -74 


" Jalan , Jalan , Jour- 

ney in Sudanese 
Jawa ” (No Com 
mentary ) (Colour) 
(16mm . ) ( Canada ). 


P . E . 


U 
74944 


B /72023 


Do , 


119 . 00 

( 1 ) 


Not P . E . 


" Ballet Adagio " 

(Music only with 
titles in English ) 
( Colour) (16mm .) 
(Canada ) 


21 - 5 -74 


B / 72016 


Do . 


101 .00 

( 1 ) 


" Little Men of Chro . 
magnon " (Music 
only with titlos 
in Englisli ) ( 16mm .) 
(Colour) ( Canada ) 


U 
74945 

- -- - P . E . 
21 - 5 - 74 


U 


B /72010 


Do , 


" Wind " (No Com - 
montary ( Colour) 
( 16ınm .) ( Canada ) 


112 .00 

( 1) 


74946 
- - - - - - - Not P . E . 

21 - 5 - 74 


B /72022 


119 .00 


U 
74947 


Do , 


" Contaun” (No Com - 
mentary ) (Colour) 
( 16mm . ) (Canada ) 


Not P .E. 


B /72013 


Do . 


" North " (No Com - 
mentary) (Colour) 
( 16nın .) (Canada ) 


164 -00 

( 1 ) 


21- 5 - 74 

U 
74948 

- - -- Not P , , 
21 - 5 - 74 


U 


B /72012 


85 .00 


Do . 


“ Very Nice Very 

Nico " (No Con 
mentary ) ( 16mm .) 
Canada , 


( 1 ) 


74949 

- 
21- 5 - 74 


Not P . E . 


B /72027 


91 . 00 


Do . 


" Balablok " 

(NO 
Commentary ) 
(Colour ) ( 16mm .) 
(Canıda ) 


74950 
L . A . P . E . 
21 - 5 - 74 


B /72103 


" Indian News Ro- 

view No . 1336 " 
(35mm .) 


235 .00 

( 1) 


Filins Division , 

Govt . of India , 
24 Peddar Road , 
Bombay - 26 . 


Films Division , 
Govt. of India , - 
24 - Peddar Road , 
Bombay - 26 . 


74951 

- -- - ( Valid for Eng 
22 - 5 - 74 lish , Hindi, 

Marathi, Guja 
rati, Tamil, 
Telugu , Kannada 
Malayalam , 
Punjabi, Kasta 
miri, Urdu & 
Sindhi versions.) 


U 


B /72104 


301 : 00 


Do. 


Do . 


( 1 ) 


" Indian NowsRc- 

view No. 1336 " 
(Eastorn Edition ) 
(35mm .) 


74952 

- 
22 - 5 - 74 


Valid for English , 

Hindi, Bengali, 
Assamese & 
Oriya versions .) 


U 


B /72105 


74953 


" Maharashtra News 

No. 264 " (Marathi) 
( Hindi) (35mm .) 


298 . 00 

(1 ) 


Tho Dir. General The Dir . General 
Information & 

Toformation & 
Public Relation , Public Relation , 
Govt. of 

Govt . of 
Maharashtra , 

Maharashtra . 


22 - 5 - 74 


B /72052 


" The Living Space " 

(Hindi) ( 35mm .) 


226 . 40 


74954 


Chandu Films, 

Bombay - 58 . 


P . E . 


Chandu Films, 

40 / 1615 , D . N . 
Nagan , Andhori 
(W ) Bombay - 58 . 


22 - 5 -74 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


2238 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III - - SEC , 4 

= - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


B /72015 


" You The First Vic - 

tim " (English ) 
( 35mm ) 


284 .00 

(1 ) 


Films Division , 

Govt . of India , 
24 - Poddar Road , 
Bombay - 26 . 


P . E . 


Films Division , 
Govt. of India , 
24 -Poddar Road , 
Bombay -26 . 


74955 

- - - - 
22 - 5 - 74 


B /71037 


5189 .00 

(19 ) 


Sevexportfilm , 

Bakhtavar , 
Bombay -5 


The Gorky Film 
Studio . 


" At Dawn It s quiet 
Hero " ( English ) 
(Colour ) 
( Sovescopo ) ( 35mm .) 
(USSR ) 


74956 

- - 
23 - 5 - 74 


With 
mark . 


trianglo 


Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 5,210 .00 mts . 
Cut Reel 
No . No . 


1 . 


V 


: From tho steam bath soquence delere all the visuals of woman with baro 
busts and hips 

210 ni, 
Length of deletions : 210 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will re : 5 , 189 . 00 mts . in 19 recls . 


B /72098 


30 .48 


" To The Rescue " 

(Bengali ) (Colour ) 
( 35mm ) 


P . E . 


74957 

- 
23 - 5 - 74 

U 
74958 

- 
23 - 5 - 74 


B / 72009 


90 . 00 
( 1 ) 


M / S Tolevision 

M s, Tolovision 
Radio And Motion Radio And 
Pictures, 6 - A - Motion Pictures , 
Rashmi, Bombay - 26 . Bombay - 26 . 
Canadian High National Film Board 
Commission , 

of Canada , 
Shanti Pathi, 

Govt. of Canada . 
Chanakyapuri, 
Now Dolhi- 20 . 


" Notions Elemen 
luiros Do Gone 
tique " ( The Elo 
ments of Gonotics ) 
(No Commentary ) 
(Colour ) (16mm ) 


P . E . 


B / 71901 


(180 ) 


" A Life In youll 

Hand " (Breath of 
Life ) (LNylisi) 
( Colour ) (16nın . ) 
(Canada ) ( W . G .) 


Hoechst Pharma 

ceuticals Ltd . , 
Roman House , 
Bombay - 20 , 


Dr. Fritz 

roich Film 
duction , 
Hoidolhory 


Hyden - 74959 
Pro - - - 

23 - 5 - 74 


P . E . 


B /72066 


" Sabhyata Ko Nupur " 

(Hindi) ( Colour ) 
( 35mm .) 


428 - 24 

( 2) 


Topuz Movies, 

19 - Shivaji Park Rul 
Bombay-28 . 


Nujna Thakur , 

74960 
Pro , Topac Movios - - - 
Bonlay - 28 , 

23- 5 - 74 


U 


B /72030 


" Huni Aur Hamaru 

Bachlo " ( Hindi) 
( 161un . ) 


202 - 39 

( 1 ) 


Subhash 

Solgll Kamili Minochia for 
For Minocha Pro - Minocha Pro 
duction , Bombay . duction , 


74961 

- - Not P , L , 
23 - 5 - 74 


B /65844 


" Vachan " (Hindi) 

( Colour) ( 35min .) 


3580 . 95 

(14 ) 


Lars Films 
Organisation , 


Tejnath Zar, 
Executive Producer , 
M /s . Zaars Films 
Organisation , Shri 
Sound Studio , 
Dadar . 


74962 

- With 
23 -5 -74 mark . 


trianglo 


Endorsement : 
Orignal Length : 3594 51 Mts . 
C41 Reel 

No . No . 
1 IX : Delete the following dialogue of the ChristianAyah : 

" Apunke waste koi bhi size ka ho to chalega " (Sound ( nly ) (Sound ) 
2 XIV : Recluce thio fight in the templo reducing the shots in which ono man 
Strikcs another with the bella , 

. . . . . . 1356 
Length of deletions : 13 :56Mts 
Actuul length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3580 .95mits in 14 reels 


U 


B / 72031 


" Cry Woll " ( English ) 

( lómm ) ( U .K . ) 


645 -56 


National Education Michaol Trumai) , 
& 

Information 
Filins Ltd , 
National Ilouso , 
Tullach Road , 
Bombay - 39 , 


74963 

- P.E . 
24 - 5 - 74 


B /71966 


Do 


Goorgo H Brown, 


" Go Kart Go " (Eng - 644 -35 
Jisli) ( 16 in ) 

(6 ) 
( U , K . ) 

- - -- - - - - - - - - - - 


74964 

- P . L . 
24 - 5 - 74 
- - - - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


PART II— SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 

- - - - - - - - - 
- 

- - - - - 
- 

- 


2239 

S 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


23 


6 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


— 


- - - 


B ) 72025 


" Bethune" ( English ) 

( 16min ) ( Canala ) 


662 .00 


P . C . 


Capauan High Com - National Film Board 74965 
mission , Shanti of Canada, Govt. - - - - 
Chanakya of Canada , 

25 - 5 - 74 
puri, New Delhi- 20 


laih 


Chaton 


B /71981 


22 . 86 


" " Tlie Favourito Ono " 

(Colour ) ( 35mm .) 


M /s . Trio Films, M /s . Trio Films, 
Jyoti Studios , 

Bombay - 7 , 
Kennedy Bridge , 
Bombay - 7. 


74966 (Valid for Fne 

Jish , Hirdi, 
25 - 5 - 74 Marathi, Guja 

rati, Bengali , 

Assaineso , 

Kannada, 
Tamil, Mula 
yalam , 

ver 
sions). 
U 
74967 

- - P . L . 
25 - 5 - 74 


1 / 72116 


281 - 33 


" Vision USA 25 " 

(Luglish ) (Colour ) 
(16mm .) (USA ) 


Uniled Slallos In - S . A . Films, Inc. 

formation Service 
Bombay - 20 . 


B /71046 


332 -06 

( 1 ) 


High Denis Hill 


Australian 

Comunission , 
New Delhi 


" Intonational 

Swimmer 1972 " 
(English ) ( Colour ) 
(16ınm ) (Australia ) 


74968 

- - - 
25 - 5 -74 


P . L . 


B /71950 


" A Deaf Child in the 

Family " ( Friglish ) 
( 1611ni ) (New 
zealand ) 


438 .91 

( 1) 


Rev . Fr . Fred , 

Alphonso . 


Nowzoaland Nation - 

al, Film Unit . 


74969 

- 
25 - 5 - 74 


P . E . 


CALCUTTA 


U 


C / 8030 


I 


Bolield His Glory 
( English ) ( Colour ) 
( 16mm ) USA . 


487 .68 

( 1) 


Dr Rev , D Mark 

Buntajn 18 , Royd 
St Cal. 16 


Davo Wilkerson , 
USA 


73421 

- 
21 - 5 - 74 


P . L . 


U 


C /8015 


73422 


Dorthlant Land (Eng . ) 

(Colour) (16mm ) 
Canada 


240 . 00 
( 1 ) 


Ramkrishna Mission Pamola , USC of 

Institute of Cul Canada 
ture, Calcutta 


23 - 5 - 74 


C /8017 


U 
73423 


Mul Cult -Pond Ro . 

rowal ( Liriglish ) 
(Colour ) (1611111 ) 
USA 


240 . 00 

(2 ) 


Wiloringe Corpo 

faltion , Assim 


National Car Ren 

141 Systein Inc , - 
USA 


23 - 5 - 74 


C /8018 


121 .92 


Dunlop Limitød , U ,K 


U 
73424 


Dunlop Donovo 

( English ) (Colour) 
( 16mm ) UK 


Dunlop India Ltd , 
62A . Mirza Gha 
lib St , Cal- 16 . 


23 - 5 - 74 


MADRAS 


U 


M /8579 


228 .60 
( 1 ) 


Shri S , R . Chandran , 
Madras 


“ Tho Linits to " 

Growili (Telugu ) 
(35mm ) B & W 
India 


Shri S . R . Chandran , 
Madras 


67555 


P . E . 


21- 5 -74 


U 
67556 


M /8595 


With cuts , 


21 - 5 - 74 


One Onnu Kanne 3982 . 50 Sudarsan Entor - Sudarsui Entor - 
Kannu ( Tamil ) ( 15 ) 

prises , Madras 

priscs , Madras 
(35nm ) B & W 

India 
Endorsement on certificato NO 67556 - U dated 21st May 1974 - issuiod to tho film Onne 
Onnu Kannc Kannu ( Tamil ) 
Longth applicd 3987 : 36 Mts . 
Curs 
1. Reel 4 - Delete the dialogue of Akilandan to Parandhaman : " Ungal Kozhuppai 

I Enakkuſhanoy Theriyum - - Konjam .. . . .Mel Muchu Kizhmuchu 
Varukirathu . 


Mts . 


3 .04 


2 . Recl 14 - Delete the shot showing Alamu vomitting into the bowl. 


. 


. 


. 


1 .82 


Total 


4 . 86 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


2240 
- - - - - - - - - 

1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III - SEC. 4 

- - - - - 
- - 


- - 


- 


- - - -- - - 


- - 


= - = 


- 


= 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


= 


= 


= 


7 


Actual length of the film will be : 3982 50 Mts. In 15 Reels . 


U 
67557 


M / 8557 


Thangapathakkam 

( Tamil ) (Colour) 
( 35mm .) India . 


4762 .79 

( 18 ) 


Sivaji Productions , 

Madras, 


Sivaji Productions, 

Madras . 


22 - 5 - 74 


U 
67558 


M / 8598 


With cuts, 


22 - 5 - 74 


11 


. 


Mis. 


" Tulasi ( Tolugu ) 4462 -29 Ramavijcta Films, Shri K . A . Prabhakar, 
( 35mm .) B & W . ( 18 ) Madras . 

Madras , 
India , 
Endorsement on certificato No. 67558 - U dated 22nd May 1974 —- issuod to the film 
" Tulasi ( Tolugu ) (35mm .) B & W . 

Length applied . 4551 .91 Mts . 
Cuts . 
1. Reel 117 ] n the rape scone, after Tulasi escapes from Punyakoti at the docr and 

comos to the chest of drawers whore a statuo fulls on floor , delete the rest 
of the soquionco including their prolonged struggle ncar tho bod , under 
the bed and Punyakoti pushing her on tho bed and falling on top of lor . 
(No objectic a to retaining a brief shot of their struggle while standing , 

not exceoding two feet) (Rotained 9 . 14). . 
2 , Reel 11 - Delete the sentence of Punyakoti Oku chinna tablet, oka injection mapa 

ni chestundi (regarding killing his wifo) . . . . . . . 
3 . Reel 12 – Delete the dying cry of Dharmayya whon he is strangled to death , by 

Punyakoti. (Sound only ). . . . . . . . 
4. Reel 18 — Reduce considerably Tulasi beating Punyakoti with iron chain . . . 


27 .43 


5 : 21 


10 .66 


Total 


43 - 30 


Voluntary deletion in Reol 18 : 46 . 32 Mts . 
Actual length : 4462 . 29 Mts. in 18 Reels . 


U 


M /8578 


79 . 24 


Shri E . Appa Rio , 

Madras , 


Shri E . Appa Rao , 

Madris . 


67559 


Saukhyam Niche 
Margam (Tolugu ) 
(35mm ) B & W . 
India 


22 - 5 - 74 


U 
67560 


M /8575 


With cut . 


22 - 5 - 74 


‘ Ek Rahasya ( I-Iindi) 80 - 15 Shri Ashok Jain , Sturi Ashok Jain 
(Colour ) (35mm .) ( 1) 

Madras. 

Madres , 
India , 
Endorsement on cortificate No. 67560 - U datod 22nd May 1974 - issued to tho film Ek 
Rahasya (Hindi) Colour). 
Longth applied : 80 .15 Mts. 
Delete oloso- shot of African , eyos of an animal and load of a Chinese figuro . (Replaced 

with chandolicr and shadow : 2 . 74 ) . 


2 . 74 


Total 


, 


, 


, 


2 . 74 


Actual length will be : 80 . 15 Mis, in one Reel. 


M / 8576 


111 - 24 


Jamu Pictures , 
Madras , 


Shri N , P. Ali , 
Muras. 


67561 


( 1 ) 


Trailer of Naya Din 
Nai Raat (Hindi) 
(Colour ) (35mm .) 
India , 


23-5-74 


23 - 5 - 74 


M /8582 


With cuts . 


U 
" Vairam ( Tamil ) 4363 - 20 Vijaya & Suii Com - Vijaya & Suri Com - 67562 
(35mm .) B & W . (17 ) binos, Madras . 

bines, Madias , 
India , 

23 - 5 - 74 
Endorsement on certificate No . 67562-U duted 23rd May 1974 - issued to "Vairam (Tamil ). 


Mis . 


Length applied . 4363 20 Mts. 
Cuis. 
Reel 5 - Delete the shot of Jayakumari when she is addressed by Swami and Dorai, on 

the lino Unga Kittoy Irukkira Poottukku Sariyana Chavi Thodaroenga . 
(Replaced approvod shotil 52 ) . . . . . 

Total , . . 


1 :52 


1 :52 


- - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


Part III - _ Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 
-- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - -- --- - - 


2241 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


-U 


n tuk 


- - - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


+ 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


. 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - 


6 


WG - 


G + 


SA 


+ 


+ 


- 


+ 


- + 


+ + - 


- 4 


- - + 


+ 


- 


- 


V - - 


- 


- 


- 


Actual length will be : 4363 -20 Mis in 17 Reels . 


M /8592 


Sampathigay Saiali 

(Kannada ) (Colour ) 
( 35mın ,) Indja , 


4284 .00 

( 17 ) 


Padmasliree Enter - Padinasluoc Intor - 

prisos , Bangaloro . prisos , Bangalore , 


67563 


24 - 5 - 74 


M /8568 


Naan Avanillu1 

( Tamil) ( 35mm .) 
B & W ., India . 


4386 - 37 

( 16 ) 


Shri Narayani Films, 

Banquloro . 


Shri Narayani Films, 

Bangalore 


67564 


24 - 5 - 74 


U 


M /8570 


Sri Krishna Panda - 

varu (Kannada ) 
(35mm ) B & W ., 
India , 


5097 -16 

( 19 ) 


Sri Sarada Produc- Shri R . Hanumanthal 
tions , Madrils . 

Rao , Madras , 


67565 


25 - 5 - 74 


PARTICULAS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE IST JUNE 1974 . 


BOMBAY 


B / 72050 


1 / 71968 


Do . 


“ VD - Attack Plan ,, 182 . 88 ( 1) Natinal Educational Walt Disney Produc - 74970 
( English ) & Information Films tions . 

- P . E . 
(Colour) (16mm .) Ltd ., NationalHouse 

25 - 5 - 74 
(USA .). 

Tulloch Road , 
Bombay -39 . 

U 
" Seventy Deadly Pills " 618 - 74 

Dorick Willioms 74971 
((English ) (16 mm .) 

Productions Ltd . 

-- P . E . 
( U . K .). 

27 - 5 - 74 

U 
" Scramble " (English ) 693 - 42(6 ) 

Do , 

Michael Gorell Barnes 74972 
( Colour ) ( 16 mm .) 

- P .E . 
( U .K .). 

27 - 5 - 74 

U 
Tra . " Zamane So 84 ,08 (1 ) A . Majiidkhan, Maikod A . Majidkhan , Maikode 74973 With triangle mark 
Poochho " ((Hindi) 

Movies , 308 - Famous Movies, Bombay -41 , - 
( Colour ) (35 mm .) Cine Bldg ., Maha 

28 - 5 - 74 
laxmi, Bombay - 11 . 


B /72033 


B /72068 


Endorsement. -- - 
Original Length : 88 -39 m . 

Reduce considorably the impact of violence - 4 .31 mts. 

(Length retained : 3 .05 Mts . ) 

Longth of deletion : 4 .31 m . 
Actual Length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 84 -08 Mts . 


B /72108 


" Adhik Dhaan Khush - 
Hal Kisan " (Hindi) 
(Colour ) ( 35 mm .) 


P . E . 


U 
305 . 00 (1) Mayank Bharati, E -3 - Mayank Bharati 

74974 
Chand Housing So 

- 
ciety , Juhu , Church 

28 - 5 - 74 
Rd., Bombay -54 . 

U 
121 .92 ( 1 ) National Education & Nationnl Educational 74975 
Information Films Media Inc. 

- - 
Ltd . , National House , 

28 - 5 - 74 
Tulloch Road , Bom 
bay- 39 . 


B / 72044 


" Training Meinoran 
dum " ( English ) ( Co 
lour) 716 mm .) . 
(USA ) . 


P . E . 


B /72045 


121 . 92 (1) 


Do , 


Do , 


" Increasing 
tivity " 
( Colour) 


Produc- 
( English ) 
(16 mm .) 


P . E . 


U 
74976 

- - 
28 - 5 - 74 

U 
74977 


B /71763 


121 . 92 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Garden State 


“ Slips and Falls " 
(English ) ( Colour) 
( 16 mm .) (USA ). 


P . E . 


28-5-74 


U 


B /71913 


“ The Christmas Tree ” 
( English ) ( 16 mm .) 


630 - 946) 


Do , 


Augusta Productions 
Ltd ., 


74978 


- P . E . 


8 /72043 


121 - 92(1) 


Do , 


“ Disciplino - A Mutter 
of Judgoment" (Eng.) 
(Col.) (16mm .) 


National Educational 
Media Inc . 


28 - 5 - 74 

74979 
28-5 -74 


P . E . 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- LT 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


7 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


2242 


TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III — SEC . 4 
- - = = = 

= - = 


-SI 


= 


- - 


- 


- 


1 /72042 


B /72034 


B /72035 


B / 71758 


foliah 


( 1 ) 


U 
“ Room Service ” 110 -95(1 ) National Bducation & National Educational 74980 P . E . 
(English ) ( Colour ) 

Information filnis htd . , Media Inc . 
( 16 mm .( USA ) . National Ilouse , Tulloch 

28 - 5 - 74 
Raud, Bombay - 39 . 

U 
" Count Down To 733 04(6 ) 

Do 

A Fran Bundy Wallace 74981 P . E . 
Danger " (English ) 

Productions Ltd . 
(Colour ) (16mm .) 

28 - 5 - 74 

U 
“ The Sky - Bike " (Eng - 710 -79 ( 6 ) Do . 

Harold Orton , Eyelinc 74982 P . E . 
Jish ) (Colour ) 

Films Ltd . 
( 16 mm .) (UK . ) 

28 - 5 - 74 
" Stout Hearts, Steady 300 -53 United Stato Infor- Ashley Huwken 

74983 Not P . T , 
Handy " (English ) 

mation Servico 4 
(Colour) (16 mm . ) New Marino Linos , 

28 - 5 - 74 
( USA ) . 

Bombay- 20 . 
" Trailer of Shatrunj 84 -42 ( 1) H . C . Shukla , M /s Ashok Chandra , M /s 74984 With triangle mark . 
Ke Mohro " (Hindi) 

Rajanigandha En - Sahel Films, Bombay -50 - - 
(Colour ) (35 min .) torprise, 7 -Surkashjta , 

29 - 5 - 75 
Linking Road , Boni 

bay - 54 . 
Endorsement : 

Original Length : 89 . 30 Mts. 
Delete the shot of Rajan Sethi looking at the thing of the dancer indecorously and 
her rolling on top of him 

. . . 4 .88 m 
Length of deletions : 4 .88 m . 
Actual Length of the Film afier the aforesaid deletions will be : 84 -42 m . 


B / 72119 


B / 72145 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1337 " ( 35 mm . ) 


133 .20 ( 1 ) Filnis Division , Govt . Films Division , Bom 

of India , 24 -Peddar bay - 26 , 
Road , Bombay- 26 . 


74985 ( Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
29 - 5 - 74 Gujarati, Assenese , 

Bengali, Oriya , 
Punjabi, Kashmiri 
and Urdu ver 

sions) . 
U 
74986 P . E . 


B /72148 


" The Ugly Faco " 
( English ) (35 mm .) 


72 .00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do. 


29 - 5 -75 


B / 72144 


217 - 32 (1 ) 


Do . 


" Indian Nows Review 
No . 1337" (Southern 
Edition ( 35 mm .) 


74987 ( Vulid for English 

Hindi, Tamil, 
29- 5 - 74 Tolugu , Kannada 

Malayalam ver 

gions. 
U 
74988 With triange mark , 


B /72109 


81 18 (1 ) 


" Trailer of Froe Lovo " 
( Ilind ] ) ( Colour) 
(35 mm ) 


Film Effects , 117, Sarvjcet , Famous 

Fainous Cinc Bldg., Bldg ., Bombay - 11. 
Mahalaxini, Bon 
bay - 11. 


30 - 5 - 74 


Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 81 . 99 m . 

Delete tho sentonce " Ig Kamaro men aano ke baad " said by Rita suggestively - 0 .81m . 
Length of deletions : 0 . 81 in . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 81· 18m . 


U 


B / 72100 


74989 With trianlge mark , 


30 - 5 - 74 


" Ghatna " (Hindi) 3381 -45 ( 13 ) Aradhana Films, 12 - Aradhana Films, Bom - 
(colour) 35mm . 

Geetika -85 - S . V . Road , bay -54 . 

Santacruz, Bomhay - 4 
Endorsement 
Original Length : 3418 - 33 m . 

Cur Reel 
No No 

(a ) Delete the kissing between Prem Dutt and Pailma 
( 6 ) Reduce the viow of Prem curessing the lens of Sonia under thọ 

tablo in the hotel 

(Length retained : 1 :52 in ) 
2 . V Reduce the nudo figuro of Sona in Silhouette 

(Length retainod : 0 . 15 m .) 


0 . 70 ni, 


: 


: 


: 


1 .67 m 


0 .22 in . 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - yun 


- 


- 


PART III - SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
- - - - - - - - - - - -- -- 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 


2243 

- -- 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- - -- - -- 


- 


- - 


1 


2 


34 


33 .64 


m , 


3. IX Recluce drastically the drem sequence in which Prem molests 

Sona also delete the close of blood drenched knife 

(Length retained : 27 . 29rn .) 
X Delete the portion whore too much of blood is seen pc ujing 

in comode after themuder of Prendutt 

(Length retained : 0 . 54 m . ) 
Length of cleletions : 36 .88 m . 


0 .65 m . 


Actual length of the film afier the aforesaid deletions will he : 3381 -45 m . in 13 reels. 


B /72122 


U 
74990 


" À Breath 

( English ) 
( 35 mm .). 


Away " 
(Colour ) 


30 .48( 1) M /4 Films, Jyoti Stu - M /S Films, Jyoti Stu - 

dio , Kennocy Bridgo dio , Kennedy Bridge , — 
Bombay- 7. 

Bombay - 7 . 


30 - 5 - 74 


B /72126 


" Mihakti Hove Tazgi" 

(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) . 


30 .48 ( 1) 


U 
Film Media , 47- Laxmi Mr. Jyoti O . Thakur, 74991 
Ingurance Bldg., Film Media , Bom - — 
Bombay - 1 . bay - 1 . 

30 - 5 - 74 


B /72120 


74992 


A Favourite Withi 
Evoryonc" (Hindi) 
( Colour) (35 mm ). 


30 .48 (1 ) M /s . Broczo Adv. & 

Markoting Sagar Tal 
kies Bldg., Abid 
Rud, Hyclorabad . 


Indra Bijani- United 

Film Makers , 311 - 12 - 
Himalaya House 
Palton Road , Bom 
bay- 1 . 


30 - 5 - 74 


U 


B /72124 


" Show 
lish ) 
mm ). 


Baby " ( Eng - 
(Colour ) (35 


74993 


30 - 48 ( 1) Radio Advertising Radio Advertising 

Services Cecil Court Sorvice , Bombay - 1 . 
Lunedown Road , 
Bombay - 1 . 


30 - 5 - 74 


8 /72123 


30 . 48 ( 1 ) 


Baby Show " ( English ) 
( Colour) ( 35 mm ) , 


Do. 


Do . 


U 
74994 


30 - 5 -75 


B / 72129 


3048 ) 


30 -48 ( 1 ) 


“ Aladdin In Goms 
Land " (English ) (Co 
lour ) 35 mm ). 


74995 


Film Modia , 

Bombay - 1 


Mr. Jyoti G . Thakur, 
Film Media , Bombuy - 1 . 


30 - 5 - 74 


B /72138 


" North -West Link " 
JTU - 6 " (English ) 
(Colour) (16 min . ) 
(AUSTRALIA ) 


227 . 00 ( 1 ) Pradeshik Doorsan . Post Master Gonoral, 74996 
char, Prashikshan Australia , 

- - P . E . 
Kondra 4312 Mount, 

30 - 5 -74 
Industries Estato J . B . 
Nagar Post offico , 
B hay - 59 . 

U 
660 .44 (2 ) Pradeshik Doorsanc- Post Master General 74997 
har Pra , Shikshan Australia 

— P . E . 
Kondra . 4312 Mount 

30 -5 -74 
Industries Estate J. B . 
Nagar Post Office . 
Bombay -59. 


B /72139 


" Design For Tomor - 
row " ITU - 5 " ( Eng 
lish ) (Colour ) (16nım ) 
(Australia ) 


U 


B / 71788 - 9 


" Today And Every 
Day " (English and 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
(35 mm ). (USSR ). 


520 .00 ( 2) USSR Consulate Genc- Central Dccumentary 

ral, 42 -Napogniça Film Studio 
Road , Bombay - 6 . 


30 - 5 - 74 


B /71783 


1428 -00 (5 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


U 
74999 


Do . 


charhinentes en ligne 1428 00(5) 


Do 


30 - 5 - 74 


" Monuments of Fri- 
endship " (English ) 
(Colour ) ( 35 mm .) 
( USSR ) 
" Day Light Robbery " 
(English ) ( 16mm ) . 


/71965 


John Devis . 


638 -566 ) National Education 

and Information Films 
Lid . 


75000 

- 
30 - 5 -74 


P . E . 


B /72129 


U 
75101 


" Face Off ” ( Fnglish ) 2939 19 (12 ) Film Finance Corpo- Canadian Film Deve - 
(Colour ) (35 nim ). 

ration , 91 -Walke - lopment Corporation , 
(Canada ). 

shwar Road , Bombay -6 


31- 5 - 74 

U 
75102 Not P . E . 


B /72152 


" Ravi s Siter 2 - India " 
(No Commentary 
Music Only ) (35m ). 


50 . 00 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Filnıs Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Poddar 
Road , Bombay- 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 


31 - 5 - 74 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- - - - 


14 - 369GT/ 75 


2244 
- = = 


= 


- - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [Part III — SEC . 4 
= - = - = 
2 

7 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


= 


= 


1 


S 


I 


- + 


+ - - - - - 


- 


+ 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - + 


- + 


- 


- 


- 


- 


+ - - - 


- 


U 


B /72155 


75103 


Not P . H . 


" Gou India " (No 
Coninentary ) Music 
Only ) ( 35 min .) 


85 .00 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Perdar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 


- 


31- 5 - 74 


U 


B /72151 


158 .00 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do , 


75104 


Not P . E . 


" Ravis Sitar 1 -India " 

(No Commentary 
Music Only ) (35 mm ) 


31- 5 - 74 


U 


B /72148 


$ 2 .00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do, 


75105 


Not P .E . 


“ Ellora -India " (No 
Commentary Music 
(Only ) (35 mm .) 


31- 5 -74 


B /72154 


57 .00 (1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


75106 Not P . E . 


" Drums- India " (No 
Commontary ) Music 
Only ) (35 mm .) 


31 - 5 - 74 

U 
75107 


B / 71832 -3 


" Around The Soviet 
Union No . 98 " (Ka 
nnada and Telugli) 
( Colour) (USSR ). 


100 .00 ( 1 ) U .S .S .R . Congulate Contrul Documentary 

General, 42 -Napen Film Studio 
Sea Road , Bombay - 6 . 


31 - 5 - 74 


U 


B /71834 -8 


182 .00 ( 2) 


Do . 


Do . 


" Around The Soviet 
Uniot No. 100 - 101" 
( 16mm . ) (Colour) 
(USSR ). 


75108 (Valid for Mara 

thi, Guj. , Punjabi, 
31 -5-74 Bengali , & Telugu 

Versions .) 


U 


B /75109 


111 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


75109 


" Around The Soviet 
Union No. 92" (Hindi) 
(Colour ) (16 mm .) 
(USSR ). 


31- 5 - 74 


B /72037 


" On tho Run ” ( Eng- 
lish ) ( 16 mm .) 


U 
75110 


Derick Williams Pro - 

ductions Ltd , 


659 -890) National Education & 

Information Films 
Ltd ., 


P . E . 


31 - 5 - 74 


U 
75111 


B /72032 


657 .45 (6 ) 


Do. 


" Lion Hart" ( Eng - 
Iish ) (Colour ) ( 16 mm .) 


P . E . 


Michael Forlong Pre 

ductions Ltd . 


31 - 5 - 74 


B /72110 


With tringle Majk . 


" Asi Hi Saturyachi 3654 - 23 ( 13 ) Shripad Chitralaya , D . C . Shub , 45 /1 / 5 75112 
Tarha " (Marathi) 

45 - 1 New Market New Market, Bom - -- - 
( 35mm .) Lalbaug, Bombay - 12 . bay- 12 . 

1 -6 - 74 


Endorsement - 
OriginalLength : 3664 . 29 m , 
( ut Reel 

No . 
XII Reduce considerably hard punches exchanged between Laxman 

Patil und henchman of Bali Patil and tho torture of Laxman 
Patil by spoar beforo ho is murdered 

(Length retainod - 13 .41 m .) 
Length of deletions: 10 . 06 m . 
Actual Length of the film after the aforesaid deletlons will be : 3654.23 m . in 13 reels 


10 .06 m . 


B / 72058 


“ Pap Aur Punya " 4393 .08 (17) Mughan Enterprise, Shyamsunder Shivdasani, 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 

7 -Anupama , 141h M /s . Murghan Enter- 
(35 mm ) 

Khar, Bombay- 52 . prise , Bombay -52 . 
Endorsement : 


U 
75113 With Tringle uk 
--- 
1 - 6 - 74 


Original Length : 4441 - 54 m . 

Cut Reel 
No. No . 


1. 


II 


8 - 23 m . 


Reduce drastically the scene of Balbir Singh killing his brother 
and son in a gas chumbor , keeping only a suggestion by using 
unobjoctionable Shots 

. . . . . 
(Length retainel : 9 . 45 in . 

. 
Reduce the fight between polico and the smugglers at the rail 
way crossing 
(Length retained : 34 14 


2 . 


IX 


3 : 35 m . 


PART III — SEC, 49 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2245 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


3 . 66 m . 


14 -63 m . 


3 - 66 m . 


3 . X Reduce the whipping of Jwala by Jugni by deleting hard hitting 

Shots 
( Length retaine : 20 : 73 m . ) 
Delete all tho shots of Subhidra in bedroom where she is with 

baro backag suggested . . . . . . . 
5 . XI In the light in the " Jantar Mantar " between smugglors and 

Police, reduce the fight by deletink hardhitting shots and 
reduco the impact of a police man getting killed during his 
struggle with Jwala by deleting the shot of tho policeman lying 
down and his dead body , , , , , , , 

( Longth retained : 50 -59 m .) 
6 . XIV Reduce whipping of Sister Margaret by Halbig Singh . : 

(Length retained : 2 - 44 m .) 
XV Reduce the fight in the smuggler s den . . . . . 

( Length rotainod : 50 . 29 in .) 
XVI In the last fight reduce the impact of violence by deleting shots 

of hard hitting punchos , chops and killings . . . 

(Length relajned : 111 .25 m . ) 
Length of deletions : 48 .46 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 4393 .08m . 

in 17 reels . 


0 -91 m . 


2 .44 m . 


11 . 58 m . 


U 


B /71902 


75114 Not P . E . 


" Probing The Fron - 
liers of Life" ( Eng 
lish ) (Colour ) (16 
mm .) (W .G .) 


410 .00 ( 1 ) Hoochst Pharmaceu - Farbwerke Hoechst 

ticals Ltd ., Roman A . G . 
House, Bonbay 20 . 


1 - 6 -74 


U 


B1/72132 


B / 72132 


(Moder 


75115 


P . E . 


“ Modern Air Field 
Pavomonts " (English ) 
( Colour)( 16 mm ). U . K . 


609 -60 ( 2 ) Director, National United Motion Pic 

Buildings Organisa (ures (London ). 
tion , New Delhi. 


1 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72135 


74 .07 (1 ) 


Do. 


Research 


75116 


P . E . 


" Pressod Concrete Pa - 
nels " (English ) (Co 
lour) (16 mm .) (U .K .) 


Building 
Station , 


1 -6 - 74 


B / 72134 


224 : 33 ( 1) 


Do. 


Clift Parris . 


75117 


P . E . 


B72134 


" Streets Ahead " 
( English ) (Colour ) 
( 16mm .) ( U . K .) 


1 - 6 - 74 


U 


B / 72131 


121 . 92 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


William Newman , Jin - 
perial. 


75118 


" Computer -Aided Buil - 
ding " Design " (Eng.) 
(16 mm .) ( U . K .). 


P .E . 


1 - 6 - 74 


B /72133 


224 :33 (1) 


Do. 


Building 


U 
75119 P . E . 


7511 


" Brick Laying to duy 
and Tomorrow " (Eng ) 
(Colour ) (16mm .) 


Research 
Station , 


1 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72156 


" FROM LIONS WITH 
LOVE " ( English ) 
( Colour) ( 16mm .). 


404 -00 ( 1 ) R . K . Colour Studio , R . K , Colour Studio , 

Colaba Bombay- 5 . Colour Bombay -5 . 


75120 


1 - 6 - 74 


B / 71881 


" Based On Trust" 
(English ) (35 mm ) 


469 .00 ( 2) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24- Peddar of India , 24 -Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay -26 . 


75121 

- 
1 - 6 - 74 


P . E , with triangle 
mark . 


Endorsenient: 
Original Length : 542 -00 m . 

Cut Reel 
No. No . 

Delete the shots in which a cabarot dancer mukos indecorous 
gesturos is also close views of tho dancor who is sacantily clad 
Voluntary deletions in two fcels . 


23 77 m . 
49 . 23 m . 


Length of deletions : 23 - 77 m . 
Voluntary deletions :49 - 23 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 469 . 00m , in 2 reels . 


B / 71774 


3327 With triangle inark , 


" Call Girl" (Hindi) 3332 - 43 (14) Mukesh Movies, 3 - Ved Khann , 3 -Parijat, 
(Colour ) (35mm .) 

Parijat 19 - Marin 95-Marine Drive , — 
Drive , Bombay- 2 . Bombay -2 . 


28 -5 -74 


- - - 


- 


2246 
- . . 


-. - - 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- - - - - - 


- - - - - 


: 
- 


- - 
- 


- - - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [ PART III - Sec , 4 
.- --- = = - = - = -=-=- = -= - = -=- = = -= = 

2 . . . 3 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3352 -54 m . 

Cut Reel 
No . No . 


1. 


I 


Delete the indecorous close-ups of girly s anatomy appealingas 
title background 
(Replaced with approved shots : 26 .82 m .) 


26 . 82 n . 


Delete Ramesh kissing Usha nt tho end of the scene when he is 
about to secuco hor 


2 . 44 n . 


Delete indocorous close ups and shots of Kikini clad cabaret 
duncer 

3 .65 m . 
( Replaced with approved shots - 3 .65 m . ) 
XI In the flash back scene of ripe on Kumini by Sonachand , delete 

the shot of Sonachand caressing Kamini s neck with his lips , 2 . 74 m . 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0 .30 m .) 
XI Delete the underlinod word from the dialoguo of Babu addressed 

to kamini " Sothjine Tumko Pavitra kar diya hai" with reference 
to Kumini having been raped by Sona — (Şound ) 

(Replaced with approved words) 
XII Delete tho lindorlined word from Banu s dialogue addressed to 

Sondchand whilo referring to procurement of a now girl " Maal 
tazu hui." (Sound ). 

(Replaced with approved words ). 
XIV Delete the undorlined word from Banu s dialogue addi essed to 

Ainar : " Sharir to bada lamba hai" lekin dam nahin hai" (Sound) 

(Replaced with approved words). 
8. IX Delete the words “ Khila Khila ghula ghula mehka angang le lo " 
from thosong Sung by Tini 

15 .23 m . 
( Deleted the picturisation also ) . 
Length of deletions : 50 -88 m . 
Length of the replacement: 30 :77 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion und replacement will be : 3332 - 43 m . in 14 reels 

CALCUTTA 


U 


C /8032 


Diamond (Hindi) (35 
mm ) ( India ). 


Distri 


73425 


30 . 48 (1 ) Sadhana Film Distri- Sadhana Film 

butors 3 , Saklat Placo butors. 
Calcutta - 13. 


27 - 5 - 74 


U 


C /8031 


289 .56 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do , 


Madham 
( 35 mm ) 


73426 


Gandhar - 

(Bengali) 
( India ). 


27 - 5 - 74 


C /8034 


915 .00(3) Mayur Films, Assam , Mayur Films, Assam 


73427 


Sandhan (Assamesc ) 

(35 mm ). (India ). 


P . E . 


27-5 -74 


C / 8035 


U 
73428 


P . E . 


Orissa : Faith And 
The Festive Wheel 
( English ) ( Colour) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


592 -83 (2 ) Sailon Dutt Procluc - Saile Dutt Productions 

tions 7 , Indian Miror 
St. Cal- 13 . 


27 - 5 - 74 


U 


C / 8040 


73429 


- 


Paschim Banga Sar- 
karer Sangbai Chitra 
No . 57 ( Bengali) (35 
mm ), (India ) . 


374 . 90 (2 ) Sircar Productions 38 / Dept. of Information 
1 . Elgin Road , Cal- 20 . & Public Relations 

Govt. of West 
Bengal, Calcutta . 


28 - 5 - 74 


MADRAS 


M / 8583 


Rao , 


67566 With Cuts . 


" Vijaya Ranudu ? 3880 -40 ( 16 ) Sri Vijaya Durga Pic - Srhi E . Appa 
(Telugu ) ( 35 ) min .) 

tures, Madrss . 

Madras, 
( B & W ) (India ) 

- 


27 - 5 - 74 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


PART IIT - Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - 


2247 
- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- --- - - - - 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


-- - 


- 


Endorsement on cert . No. 67566 - U dt. 27th May 1974 - issued to the film " Vijaya Ramudu ( Telugu ) 35 min . B & W . 
Length applied : 3886 - 78 Mts . 
Culs Rucl 

Mis . 
3 Delete the mother telling her daughter " Velli nee ishtam vachi 

nattalla vadi chota pani cheyinchuko " . . . . . 1 .52 
Delete the girls sentence to the youth Ma ayya neelanti 
kandalu tirigina vadiko ivvalentunnudu " , 

2 -74 
Delete Kamipa s sentence toghr girl “ Prema veesulu chopra 
koodadu , chesi choopinchal. " 

1 : 52 
From tho song picturisation , delete the following : - (a ) Vijay ! 
embracing hor maid when the breasts of the two are scan tou 
ching near tho song lina " Chiru guli giliginalu Chiesim lo " 
(Roplaced with cloucls ; 2 43) 

2 - 43 
( b ) Vijaya çmbracing the tree when the tree trunk is prominently 
seen between her busts against the line podalo poovulo virisc 
rcla ! 

0 . 30 
(Replaced with rrecs : 0 -30 ). 
6 From the song picturisation , welctc the following : - 


1 :21 


( a ) The closc - range shot of Vijaya s pointalbreasts prominently 

see touching Ramu against the words " Cheyi kalapalı " 

" ( first versc ) (Replaced with hands : 1 . 21 ) . . . 
(b ) Ramu bending over the breasts of Vijaya who is bending on 

her back , on tlıç lina " Goronkil ranmanag . no (repetition ) . 
(Replaced with Gorunka and parrot : 1 - 97 ) , . . 


1 . 97 


14 


Delete tho opening shot of tho rool when Kamp is seen bending 
over Chitti in close proxunity on cot. (No objection to the shot 
after his risiny ) 


0 . 60 


TOTAL 


, 


, 


, 


12 - 29 


Actual length will be: 3880 - 40 Mts . In 16 Reels . 


M /8977 


67567 With Cuts. 


Bantrothu Bharya 4561 62 ( 18 ) Geetha Art Productions, Geotha Art Productions 
( Telugu ) (35 mm . ) 

Matras. 

Macris . 
B & W ( (India ) 


27 - 5 - 74 


Llugu ) . 


Mts. 
0 .60 


Endorsemçnt on cort. No . 67567 - U dl. 27th May 1974 - - issued to the film Bantrothu Bharya ( T 

Longth appliod : 4736 . 28 Mts . 
Guls. Reol 

7 Delete satyam s sentence to Shanthi "Marco anta loossan . co ’ 
10 Delete the sentence of Shanti " Oku Bantrothu MuniManamodu " 

referring to Nobru " 
17 Delete Harischandran Rally telling his mon " Notitha chopithe 

votlu vega kalam kadidi - notlatone cheppalı " . 


5 . 17 


2 . 13 


18 


Delete the District Collector helding the currency notes and 
handing them over to Ramachandra Rao , without taking any 
action 


6 09 
13 . 99 


TOTAL CUTS 


. 


. 


M /8599 


Voluntary deletions in Reel Nos. 1, 8 , 10 ; 160 -67 metres . 
Actual length of the film after the cuts and voluntary deletions will be : 4561 62 metres in 18 reels . 

U 
" Manushulu Mathi 3958 - 14 ( 16 ) Chitranjali Pictures , Chitranjali Pictures , 67568 With Cuts . 
Bommalu " ( Telugu ) 

Madrus . 

Mudras. 
( 35 mm .) Black and 

27 - 5 - 74 
White (India ). 
Endorsement on Cort . 67568- U dated 27th May 1974 - issued to film Manushulu -Mathi Bomnalu (Telugu ). 

Length applied : 3993 - 18 Motres. 
Cuts . Reel 

Metres. 
From the picturisation of the song bigioning with the words 

" Pagadalu pyna posadainma" , delete the followings : 
1 5 (a ) Rani lifting her skirt up which goes completely upwards 

revealing her frontal portion on BGM before th3 song 
begins. (replaced with insertion ofaudience - 0 . 91metres . , 0 .91 


2248 

- - - - - = 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III - Sec . 4 
- - - - - - - - 

= - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - — = - - - - 
2 

5 6 

7 


B 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


(b ) Rani s action of lifting her skirt up facing boy . ( replaced 
with insertion of boy s laugh - 0 . 30 ) . . 

. 


Metres 
0 . 30 


(c ) Reni bending on her back and giving indecent hip move 

mcnts near the line * Sando velaku rammannado " . (Repla 
ced with insertion of auclience reaction ) (0 . 91 metres) 


0 .91 


(d ) Rani squatting with the action of her hands at her front. 

(Replaced with insertion of audience reaction - 0 .91 metres) 


0 .91 


( e ) Hor skirt going up revelaing her lower portion , towards the 

end of the end of the songs . . . . . 


1 . 52 


DI 


1 .82 


8 


From the picturisation of the song beginning with the words 
" Orori Mallanna " . delctc Rani beating her brcasts by her 
hands at tho end of Pallabi, before the first charanam begins. 
(Replacoct with boys play- - 1 .82 metres) . . . . 
Delete the sequence of school boys bringing two donkeys into 
tho living room of the warden , one donkey disturbing the war 
don and another clonkey repeatedly pulling off the blanket 
from the server s baro body, till the warden gets up and 
shouts 

TOTAL CUTS 


33 - 52 


39 - 89 


Actual length of the films after cuts and replacements will be : 3958 - 14 metres in 16 reels . 


M /8611 


305 - 00 ( 1) 


Tamil Nadu Govt. 
Regional News Bul 
lettin No. 117 ( Tamil) 
( 35 mm ) ( B & W ) 
(India .) 


The Directorate of the Directorate of 
Information and Information and - - 
Public Relations, Public Relations, 
Madras. 

Madras. 


67569 
30- 5 -74 


PART III — Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 2249 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- -- - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

2 

3 4 

5 

67 


Particulars of Films certified or refused by the Central Board of film censors during the week ending the 8th June 1974 

BOMBAY 


U 


/72159 


75122 Not P . E . 


“ Prime Minister of 
Sri Lanka Visits India " 
(English ) (35mm .) 


516 . 00 (2 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt . 

of India 24 -Peddar of lhdis , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Boinbuy - 26 . 


4 - 6 - 74 


/72150 


U 
75123 


Not P , E , 


" Raga - 2 - Inclic " (NO 

Commontary Music 
only ) ( Docummonta 
ry) (35min . ) 


78 .00 (1 ) Films Division , Govt. Film Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bonibay - 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 , 


4 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72153 


80 .00 (1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


" Raga - (- India " (No 
Commntary Music 
only ) (Docummen 
tary) ( 35mm ) 


75124 Not P . E . 
4 - 6 - 74 


8 / 72036 


U 
75125 


P . E . 


" Hide and Seek " 
(English ) (Col.) ( 16mm ) 
( U . K .) 


694 - 6416 ) National Education & Michael Gorell Barnes . 

Information Films 
Ltd ., National House , 
Tullach Road , Bom 
bay - 1 


4 - 6 - 74 


B / 72111 


30 . 48 (1) 


" Rich And Goldon " 
( English ) (Colour) 
(35mm ) (Adyt.) 


Durga Khote Produc - Durga Khote Produc - 
tions, Indira House , tions, Bombay - 1 , 
First floor opp . 
G . P . O ., Bombay - 1 


U 
75126 


4 - 6 -74 


U 


B / 72141 


30 .48 ( 1) 


“ A Winning Smoko" 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
(Advt.) (35ınm .) 


M / s Golden Tobico , Miss Indira 
Vile Parlo , Bombay- 56 . United Film 

Bombay - 1 . 


Bijlani 75127 
Makers , – 

4 - 6 - 74 


U 


B / 72113 


" Lok Nrutya " Guj 
arati) (Colour) (Advt. ) 
( 35mm .) 


15 -24 ( 1) Sohrab , Boga M /s Sohrab Boga , M /s Ni- 75128 

Nishan motion Pictures , shan Motion Pictures . – 
Vagant Vilar 8 -Car 

4 - 6 - 74 
michael Road , 
Bombay - 26 . 


U 


B / 72112 


15 .24( 1 ) 


D ) . 


Do . 


75129 


" Nrutyollag ” (Ma 

rathi) (Colour ) (Advt . ) 
( 35mm .) 


4 - 6 - 74 


B /72208 


" Indian News Re- 
view No, 1338 " (News 
Reel) ( 35ınm ) 


174 . 95 ( 1) Filins Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay- 26 . Road , Bombay- 26 . 


U 
75130 (Valid for English , 

- Tamil, Hindi, 
5 - 6 - 74 Tolugu , Kannada 

Malayalam , As 
sumeso , Oriya hon 
gali , Punjabi, Ka 
shmiri & Urdu ver 
sions. ) 


B /72207 


246 


Do . 


Dn. 


Do. 


" Indian News Re 
viow No . 1338 " (Wes 
tern Edition ) (35mm ) 


B/72188-91 " Aus Paulu Ziyodanin 


30 . 48 ( 1 ) 


B /72188 - 91 " Aur Bhi Zyada " ( COL 

our) (Advt.) ( 35mm ) 


30-48(1) Radio Adaveti Services , Radio Adve. Services 


Radio Adyt , Services , Radio Advt . Services . 
Cecil Court Langedo 
omc Roud , Bombay - 1 . 


U 
75131 ( Valid for Eng 

lish , Hindi Ma 
5 - 6 -74 sathi, Gujarati & 

Sindi Vorsions ). 
U 
75132 

( Valid fos llindi , 
5 - 6 - 74 Tamil , Kannada , 

& Telugu Ver 

sions.) 
U 
75133 (Valid for Begn 

gali, Hindi, Ma 
5 -6 -74 rathi, & Gujarati 

versions. ) 
U 
75134 P . E . 


30 -48 (1) 


Do . 


Do , 


B / 72184 -87 " Aanek Anek Beshi" 

(Colour) (Advt.) (35 
mm ) 


B / 72115 


" Science Report 151 - 
B " (English ) ( 16mm ) 
(USA ) 


149 . 96 ( 1) United States Infor - Robert Forster . 

mation Service 4 
New Marine Linos , 
Bombay - 20 . 


5 - 6 - 74 


- - - - - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


2250 


TUT GAZETTE OT INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [ PART 1] I - SEC . 4 


T 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


B / 72118 


1 / 72114 


B /72215 


B /72128 


(3) 

(5 ) 
- - - 

- -- - -- 

U 

75135 
" Cromptorn Broozc 30 .48 (1 ) Maja Mediums, 927 Maja Mediums. Bom - - 
(English ) (Colour ) Tardeo - Air Condi- bay - 34 . 

5 - 6 - 74 
(Advt.) (35nun .) 

tioned Market, Tar 
de, Bombay-34 . 

U 
" Science Report 151 147 . 21 ( 1 ) United Statos Intor Robert Foster . 

75136 P . E . 
( A " ( English ) ( 16ınm ) 

ination Sorvice , New 
(USA ) Marines Linos , Boni 

5 - 6 - 74 
buy - 20 . 

U 
" Trailer of Huwas " 114 . 80 (I) Sawan Kumar, Bombay Sawan , Kumar. 

75137 with triangle mark 
(Hindi) (Colour) (35 
inm ) . 

7 - 6 - 74 
Enlorsement 
Original Length : 117 -65 cm . 

Delete front view of Rekha s baro thighs during dance. - - 2 - 85m . 
Acl length of the filin after the aforesaid deletions will bo . - - 114 - 80 m . 
Shyain Sunder Shiv 

U 
" Trailor of Pap Air 88 . 90 ( 1) dayani, 7-Anunmit , Shyam Sunder Shivdal - 75138 With triangle mark 
Punya " (Hindi) (Col 

14th Roud , Khar , sani, 7 -Anupama , 14th - re 
our ) (35mm .) 

Bonbuy -52 . 

Road Bombay - 52 . 7 -6 - 74 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 89 . 92 m . 

Delete tho shot of the child being thrown from the top of a building or else show the child being 
caught whilc fulling as shown in the main film . — 1 . 83m . 

Actiu ] longth of the film after the aforosaid deletion will bo - 88 - 09 m . 
ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULR 34 : 
B / 72200 -06 
Film - " No Other Choice " ( English ) (Colour ) 
U -Cert, No . 74847 of 27 - 4 -74 . 

This cortificato is also valid for Hindi, Tamil, Gujarathi, Malayalam , Kannada , Bengali and 
Tolugu vresinos of the film in colour. The Longth of the film remains uncha god . This certificate 

was ondorsed on 5th June, 1974 
B / 72160 
Film ; “ Bandits " (Engish )(Colour ) 
U - Cert No, 74177 of 9 - 1- 74 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 
unchangod . 

This cortificate was ondorsed on 5th Juno , 1974 
B /71417 
Film ; " Our Striking Force " (English ) 
U -Cort. No. 74631 of 22 -3 - 74 . 

Deleted various shots : 55 . 56 m . Actual length of the film after the aforogaid deletions will bo : 
163 44m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 5th June, 1974 . 
B / 72099 
Film : " A Few Moro Questions" (Hindi) 
U - Cort . No. 74922 of 14 - 5 - 74 . 

Corrections · The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 333 .00m . instead 

of 398 . 15 mts . 

This cortificato was oncorsed on 5th June, 1974 . 
B /28 /7337 
Film : " Sudanyache Poho" , 
U - Cort. No. 59827 of 18 - 6 - 70 

The titlo of the film on the face of the cortificato may be road as " Sudamyacho Pohe allas Shri 
Krishna Suami" instead of " Sucamacho Pohe " this certificate was endorsed on 5th June, 1974 . 
WEEK ENDING 8TH JUNE , 1974 

U 
Prashad Award Win 95 -45 ( 1 ) Prashad Press & Pub - Prashad Pross & Pub 
ning Function ( Bon 

blication 42, Indian lication 
guli ) (35mm ) (Indiu ). Mirror St, Cal-13, 

3 -6 - 74 

U 
Kanalata (Oriya ) (35 4 ,390 -03 (16 ) Konark Films Private Ghanashyam Mohapatra , 73431 
inm ) (ndia . 

Ltd . Bildun Badi, Cų 
ttack - 9 , 

3 - 6 - 74 
- - — 

- - 

- 


C /8036 


C /8037 


PART III — ŞEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMIER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 2251 
- - - - - - - - -- - - -- -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - 

- - - - - - - - - = -- = - = 
( 1) 

(3) ia 

( 5 ) 

( 6) (7 ) 


(2 ) 


M - 8600 


197 . 50 ( 1 ) 


67570 


P . L , 


Part The Diode 
Characterstc (English ) 
(Colour ) (16mm .) 
Holand , 


Principul, College of Phillips of Holland , Ho - 
Engineering , Gundy . land . 
Madrus. 


3 - 6 - 74 


U 


M / 8601 


Do, 


M /8581 


Part III _ - Tho Trans 208 .47 (1 ) 

Do . 
Do. 

67571 P. E . 
sistor Status of Op 
poration . (English ) 

3 - 6 -74 
(Colour) ( 16mm ) 
Holland , 

U 
*Bangaaru Kalalu 4508 29 (10 ) Jayashrçc Combinos , Annapurna Pictures 67572 With Cus. 
( Tolugu ) (Colour ) 

Madras, 

( P ) Ltd , Madras . 
(35mm ) (India . 

4 - 6 - 74 
Endorsement on cert . 67572 -U dt . 4th June 1974 - igglied to thọ ſilm Banguaru Kalalu ( Telugu). 

Length applied . 4514 .67 Mts . 
Cuts 
1 . Reel 3 -- Delete Chidambaram taking out the liquour bottlo beneath the inini 

Pedestal on which the idol of a deity is placed . (Replaced with 
Chidambariigoos to almirah and talos out the liquor bottle ). 
4 .86 Mts . 

4 . 86 
2 . Reel 6 - Delete Venu s dialogue " Devalayallo an therthaniki badulu yeo 
teertham isto " referring to liquor . . . . . 

. 2 - 74 
3 . Reel 11 – Delete the icference to " Kerala nurse " from the dialogue of Sc 
shagiri. . . . . . 

3 64 

3 -64 
. . . . . 


Mis . 


Toral 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


11 . 24 


Actual length will bo 4508 •29 Mts . in 16 Reels . 


M /8584 


Avalukku Nihar Av- 4251 .05 ( 16 ) Sri Ravi Priya Films, Sri B . Jayaraman , 

67573 With cuts , 
ale ( Tamil ) (3 mm ) 

Madras . 

Madras. 
( B & W ) ( India ) 

4 -6 - 74 
Edndorsement on cort. No . 67573- Ų dt. 4th Juno 1974 — issued 10 the film Avalukku Nihar Avale ( Tamil ). 

Longth applied , 4274 .81 Mts . 
Cuts 
1. Reel 5, 8 & 11 - Delete the words " Kusapayal, Kusatthi, Mann Midhi 

kkira Kazhudhai, wherever it occurs in all rools in tho 
film 

8. 52 
2 . Reel 13 - Delete insert shots of brothel (superimposed in the song ) (Re 
placod with close shots of Abhirami. 8 28 Mis ) 

8 -22 


Mts . 


CO 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


. 


. 


16 - 74 


. . . 
Voluntary deletions in Reel 3. 15 -25 Mts , 


M / 8596 


dia ) 


Actual length will be 4251 .05 Mts . in 16 Reels. 

U 
Oroy Saatchi ( Tamil ) 3809 . 70 ( 14 ) Dovi Creations, Madras Devi Croations, Madras. 67574 With cuts , 
(350 ) ( B & W ) ( In 

5 -6 -74 
Endorsement on cert. No. 67574U dt, 5th June 1974 – issuod to the film Oroy Saatchi ( Tamil ) 

Length applied . 3816 .09 Mts . 
Cuts 

Mts. 
1. Reel 5 - Reduce molestation sequence to a flash . Delete Solvam s action 
of toaring Kanchana s blouse . 

639 
2 . Reel 0 -- Delete tho namo Palayamkottui, with roference to prison . (Ro 

placed with approved dialogue-sound only ) 


Total 


. 


. 


. 


6 . 39 


. 


. 


Actua ) length will be 380970 Mts , in 14 Reels . 


U 
67575 


M /8602 “Potash for Top Dro- 

ssing ( Tamil) (Col 

our ) (35mm ) ( India ), 
15 — 3696I/ 75 


152 : 40 (1 ) Krishnaswamy Associatos Krishnaswamy Asso 
(P ) LI . Mudras, ciattes (P ) Ltd . Mad - - - 

ras , 


7 - 6 - 74 


2252 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) (PART III- Sec . A 

- = - = - = - = -= = - = - - - = - = - = - = - - = - = - = 
(2) (3) (4) 

( 5) (6 ) 

(7) 


. 


U 


M /8608 


Kaun Ho Tum 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 35 
mm ) (India ). 


80 - 76 ( 1 ) Shri Ashok Jain , Mad - Shri Ashok Jain , Mad - 
ras , 

rus, 


67576 


7 - 6 - 74 

U 
67577 


M /8609 


801 06 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do , 


Ek Rahasya Ek Ta 
sali (Hindi) ( Col. 
our) ( 3 inm . ) Indial , 


7 -6 - 74 


U 


M /8610 A Beautiful Tradi 29 .71( 1) Sound & Sight, Madras Sound & Sight, Madras . 67578 

tion (Hindi) (Col 
our) ( 35mm ) ( India ) 

7 -6 -74 

U 
M /8751 " Mohan " (Maluya - 3502 - 84 (14 ) Aar Boo Produns. , Shri M . B . Pisharody, 3303 A With cuts , 
lam ) (35mm . ) 

Bangaloro , 

Bangaloro . 
( B & W ) ( India ) 

7 -6 - 74 · 
Endorsement on Cact . No 3303- A dt. 7111 June 1974 - issued to the Alm Moham (Malayalam . 35mm , B & W 

Length applied 3350 .00 Mts . 
Cuts 

Mts . 
1. Reel 2 - Delete shot (closo ) of Shanti s front and Vasu s back - action of 

7 . 30 
2 . Reel 4 - Delete ( a ) the scene in which Bhaskor is givon massage by his lady 
socretary and later mounts on him , Tho ontire scone , . 

1934 
(6 ) Bliasker and Uma in Bed . . . . 

1 . 34 
3 . Reel 5 -- Delete cabaret duncors bottom shown in close-shot. (b ) Insert 
of a man ifting his dhoty and moving into bathroom 

8 .82 
4 . Reel 7 - Reduce (a ) slot of Bhaskar and Shanta in bod, to a flash . . 2 . 13 
(h ) Delete Shanta s closo - shot in bod . 

3 - 04 
(0) Delete Lawyers dialogue is which he says to Shanta Endoy 
Thokku Kaanandoy - Aktheykku Poban " . 

. 
TOTAL 

. . . . . . 47 . 16 
Actual longth will be 3502 - 84 Mts. in 14 Rools , 


. 


. 


5 : 17 


B /72192 


75139 


" Many Many More " 
(English & Hindi) 
(Colour ) 35 mm . (Advt. ) 


30 - 48 ( 1 ) Radio Advertising Sor - Radio Advortising servi- 

vices . Cecil Court cos . 
Ladowni Road , Bom 
bay - 1 , 


10 -6 -74 


B /721125 


30 .48 ( 1) 


75140 


" Alladin Aur Rang 
Birange Genis " (Hin 
di) ( Col. (35mm .) 
(Advt.) 


Film Media , 47- Mr. Jyoti G . Thakur, 
Laxmi Insuranco BI- Modja , 
dg ., Sir P , M . Road , 
Bombay - 1, 


10 -6 -74 


B / 72213 


U 
75141 P . F . 


" Water Water Evory 
whero " (English ) 
(Col.) ( 16mm .) 


60 . 96 ( 1 ) National Fducation & National Film Board 

Information Films of Canada . 
Ltd . , Nation IIoĻISO , 
| Bºb - 1 . 


10 - 6 - 74 


B /72212 


Do. 


Do . 


U 
75142 


P . E . 


" Perception - Structure 166 . 12 ( 1 ) 
Or Flow " (English ) 
(Colour) ( 16nim .) (Canada ) 


10 -6 -74 


U 


1 /72211 


157 -88 (1 ) 


Do 


Do. 


Do. 


Smokor s Lungs " (En 

glish ) (Col ) ( 16mm ) 
mm ) (Canada ) . 


75143 P . E , 
10 -6 -74 

U 
75144 P . E . 


B / 72210 


223 - 12 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


" Tho Unplannod " 
( English ) ( Colour) 
(16nun ) (Canada ) 


10 - 6 - 74 


B /71768 


75145 With triangle mark . 


11- 6 - 74 


" Trailer of Mehman " 88 .39 (1 ) Shatrujt Films, Ran - Shrutjit Paul, 
(Hindi) (Colour ) (35 

jeot , Studio , Dadar , 
mna ) 

Bombay . 
Endorsement 
Original Longih : 93 - 29 m . 

Roluce shots of violenco and cruelty - . 4 . 90 m . (Longth retajnod ; 0 .50m . 
Aotual length of the film after the aforosaid deletions will be : 88 - 39 m . 


- - 


- 


PART III — SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) 

- - - ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - 


2253 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- . 


- - - - - - - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


(3) 


(5) 


U 


B /72225 


& 


75146 


P . E . 


“ Pragati Kaa Pahiya " 
( Docunentary ) 
(Hindi) (35min .) 


128 32 ( 1) Mercury Movietone , Sushana Pahwa 

109 - Famous Cine Bldg . Rain Pahwa . 
Bombay - 11, 


11- 6 - 74 


B / 72215 


" Film Faro Nite " 
(Documentary ) 
(Hindi) ( Colour) (35 
mm ). 


495 . 60 (2 ) Sundeop , 5/ 1 Naat Kanti Mehta , 5 /1 , 
Bldg., Bonby-4 . Naaz Bldg ., Lamın 

gton Road , 
Bombay -4 . 


U 
75147 

- 
12 - 6 - 74 


- 


U 


B / 72255 


75148 


P . E . 


" Ujyoloko Khoji” 

(Nopali ) (Col.) ( 35 
mm ) (Documentary) 
(Nopal) 


268 .00 ( 1 ) RoyalNepal Film Cor - Royal Nepal Film Çor 
puration Nopal. 

poration Khatmandu , 
Nepal. 


12 - 6 - 74 


U 


B / 72199 


75149 


" Good Coffee Bru 
(Hindi) ( Colour ) 
(35mm .) (Advt .) 


30 -48 (1) Film Modia , 47 - Laxmi Mr. Jyoti , G , Thakur 

Insurance Bldg., Bom Film Mdia , 
bay - 1 . 


12 -6 - 74 


B / 72198 


30 48 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


75150 


“ Clever Girl , My 
Wife " (English ) ( Col 
our) (Advt. ) 


12 -6 -74 


U 


B /72226 


" Chidiyagarh Ki Sair 
(Hindi) (Colour ) (Advt.) 


30 -48 (1) 


M /s Trio Films, Jyoti M /s Trio Films, Ken 75151 
Studio , Konnedy Bri - nedy Bridge, Bom - - - 
dgo , Bombay - 7 , bay -7 . 

12 -6 - 74 


U 


B / 72227 


30 -48 (1) 


Do , 


Do , 


75152 


" Picnic At Tlio Zoo " 
( English ) (Colour) 
(35mm ) ( Advi.) 


12 - 6 - 74 


B /72258 


" Indian Nows Roviow 
No, 1339" (Nowsrcel) 
(35mm .) 


104 .46 ( 1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Poddar of ladja , 24 - Poddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bonbay- 26 . 


75153 

- - 
12 - 6 -74 


(Valid for English , 
Hindi, Marutli , 
Gujarathi, Tamil , 
Talugu , Kannada , 
Malayalam , As 
sameso , Oriya & 
Bongali vorsions.) 


B /72259 


267 .61 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


DO . 


" Indian Nows Roviow 
No. 1339 " ( N . E .) 
(Nowsroel) ( 35mm .) 


75154 (Valid for English , 

- - - Hindi, Pudjabi, 
12 - 6 - 74 Urdu versions. ) 


B /72060 


51 .00 ( 1) 


Do 


U 
75155 


Do . 


"What A pity ,(tingsidon(1) 


D 


Do . 


o. 


Siss 


" What A Pity " ( Enga 
lish ) (Partly in col 
Qur ) (Documentary ) 
(35mm .) 


12 - 6 -74 


B /72229 


" 36 Ghante " (Hindi) 
(Colour) ( 35mm ) 


U 
75156 


3859 . 99 (15) M /s Tilak Movios Pvt. M Tiluk Movios Pyt, 

Lid ,, Anand Villa , Ltd ., Bombay - 54 . 
15th Road , Santa 
cruz Bombay -54 , 


13 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72260 


75157 P .E . 


" Colour Vision Dofi 
cioncios" ( English ) 
(Colour ) ( 16mm .) 
(U . K . ) 


228 .60 (1) Director, Health , Rail- British Transport Films 

way Board Ministry 
of Railways , New 

Delhi, 


13- 6 - 74 


U 
75158 Not P . E , 


B / 72261 


404 .00 (2 ) Valmik Thapar , Nigår, Valmik Thapur, Nigar 
Now Delhi. 

N . Dellii. 


" The City That Jaisal 

Built" (Figlish ) (Col 
Our) (Documontasy ) 
(35mm ) 


13 - 6 -74 


B / 72146 


" Cheeso - A 

Food ” 
(Colour) 
(Austria ) 


Deliciuos 
(Gorman ) 

(35mm ) 


U 
378 .00 (1 ) M /s Shyam Bengal Omiy Wipplin -Gorstr 75169 P . F . 

Sahyadri Films, Jyoti abb, 30 - A - 10 /3 Viruna , - - 
Studio , Bombay - 7 . 

13 - 6 - 75 


2254 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III - SEC . 4 


. 


(6 


(7) 


F 


U 


1 /72218 


75160 Not P . E 


" Foştive Kerala - India " 
(Docinentay (No 
Commontary , ( 

Music 
only ) (Colour) ( 3 . 
min ) 


71 00 ( 1 ) Films Diviosin , Govt. Films Division , Govt . 

of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 - Poçldar 
Road , Bombay - 26 Road , Bombay - 26 


14 -6 - 74 


U 


B /72217 


Do . 


59 -00(1) 


Do 


D 


o . 


75161 Not P . E . 


“ Elephant- India " (Do 
mentary ) No con 
mentary, Music only ) 
( Colour) (35mm ) 


14 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72177 


54 -00 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


75162 Not P . E . 


" Kashmir -India ” (Do 
củentity ) (NO 
Commentary , Music 
Only) ( 35min ) 


14 - 6 - 74 


U 


B / 77231 


75163 P. E . 


" Vision USA 22 " 
(English ) ( Colour ) 
(16mm ) (USA ) 


290 - 78 (1) United States Infor- Steeg Productions, Inc. 

ination Service, 4 
New Marine Lines, 
Bombay ,20 , 


14 - 6 - 74 


B /72230 


315 .77 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Thomas Craven Filin 
Corporation , 


75164 


" Vision USA 21 " 
( English ) ( Colour) 
(16mm ) (USA ) 


P . E . 


14 - 6 - 74 


U 


B / 72239 


75165 


“ Zaida Jaan Ka Du 
shan " ( Documen 
tary ) (Hindi) ( Col 
our ) ( 35mm ), 


108 -81 ( 1) Mr. Shreenivas Shetty , Mr. Shreenivas Shetty . 

13 - A Maulana Azad 
Road , Bombay - 1 ) . 


14 - 6 - 75 


B / 72163 


123 .00 (1) 


Air - India , Bombay Air - National Education 
port. 

Media Inc, 


75166 


" Room Sorvice " (En - 
glish ) ( 16mm ) (USA ) 


P . E . 


15 - 6 -74 
U 
75167 P. E . 


B / 72169 


" Sanitation : Rodent 

& Insect Con 
trol" (English ) ( 16mm ) 
(USA ), 


106 . 00 ( 1) Air - India , Bombay - Air - National Educational 
roit . 

Media . 


15- 6 - 74 


B /72164 


98 .00 ( 1) 


U 
75168 


Do . 


Do , 


Do. 


“ Thc Bellman , Hall 
Porter " ( Lnglish ) 
( 16mm ) (USA ) 


35168 P.E. 


P . E . 


15 -6 - 74 


B /72264 


" Trailer of Call Girl" 
(Hindi) (Colour ) (35 
111m ) 


82 - 60 ( 1) Tappy Films, Dhun Mukesh Khanna, Naaz 75169 with triangle mark , 

Villu Varsava , Road , Cincmu Blug., Lamin - - -- - 
Andheri, Bombay - 61. gton Road , Bombay - 4 . 15 -6 - 74 


Endorsement 
Original Length : 91 -75 m . 

1 . Delete tho shot of a man over a girl lying in bed. 0 . 76m . 
2 . Delete the shot of call girl approaching a man in bed and unbulloning her dress — 7 -79 m . 
3 . Delete the shot of a girl lying in bed and a man suggestively reclining ovor her — 1171 m . 
4 . Delete the suggestive line : “ Kuchh karo na” froin the song sung by girl while enticing a boy _ 1 -89 m . 

Length of deletions : 1 . 15m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be - 82 .60 m . 


B /72038 


" Hawas " (Hindi) (Col- 3823 . 11 (15 ) Mercury Productions, Mercury Productions, 3228 with triangle mark , 
our) (35mm ). 

Shri Sound Studio , Shri Sound Studio , - 

Dudar , Bombay- 14 . Dadar, Bombay - 14 . 11-6 - 74 
Endorsement 

Original Length : 3996 . 96 m . 
Cut 

Reel 
No . 
I : Delete the shot of and roferonco to Syndicate Bank in the sequence of cheating of 

the jeweller by Anil - 100m . 
: Delete the entire sequence showing the modus operandi of smuggling of 

diamonds in plaster ceist on Anil s leg - 123 . 14m . 
3 . 

IV : In the sceno where Mr. Singh brings Anil to his house and lie is seen sitting opposite 

of Mrs. Singh delete the shots of Mrs . Singh kissing Anil in the love scene 
imagined by Mrs. Singh - 4 -46m . 
(b ) In the scene of Shiv Kumar and Mrs. Singh in bed delete shot of Mrs. Singh 
kissing Anil on his neck - 1 . 44m . 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


PART III - - Sec. 4 ) THEGAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) 


2255 


= 


- - - - - - - - - 


- - - - - 3 


- 


- - - - 


- 


( 1) 


(2 ) 


(3) 


( 4 ) 


(5 ) 


4. 


VI : 


VI : (a ) Delete the indocorous action of Anil caressing the arm of Neetu during the 

song " Kal raat ugne . . . . " - 0 67m . Replaced approved shots : 0 .67m .) 
( b ) Delete shots of Ncctu kissing Anil on the neck and tho kiss between Anil and 

Neetu at the end of the reel as imagined by Neetu _ 0 .65m . 
5 . VIII : Delete the following indecorous gestures and actions: 

(1) Mrs. Singh lying on her back and wriggling with suggestive movements on the 

lines " Ye hawas kya hai" 1 :58ın , 

(Replaced with approved shots : 1, 58m .) 
(it) Mrs . Singh indocorously caressing the arm and face of Anil with her lips and 

chewing his shirt collar = 0 . 52m . 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0 -52m . ) 
(ii) Mrs . Singh sitting on the ground and sliding forward and closing and parting 

her legs to the tune of music upto the words " Pyasa tan hai pyasa man hai" 

1 . 87ın . (Replaced with upproved shots : 1 :87m . ) 
(iv ) Delete one shot of Mrs . Singh sitting on high pedestal and rubbing her lçgs 

suggestively . - 1 .41 m . (Replaced with approved shots : 1 . 41m .) 
IX : (a ) Reduce to only bare suggestion the scene of Mrs . Singh killing her husband by 

drowing him in a bath tub . — 1 22m . (Lengh retained : 2 ,00m . ) 
(b ) Reduce to the minimum the shots of Mrs. Singh torturing Ncctu with knife , 

2 . 61 m . ( Deleted completely ) 
XI : Reduce to bare minimum the gruesome face of the dead woman _ 3 . 16m . (Length 

retained : 0 . 91 m .) 
XII : Reduco drastically thc torture and bearing of Anil by hirelings of Mrs. Singh - 

4 . 24 m . (Length retained : 4 - 1m .) 
(b ) Delete the shot of Mrs. Singh torturing Anil s blind sister with knife to bare sug 

gestion . - 2 . 13m . 
XIII : Reduco considerably tlie fight between Anil , Anil s friends and Mrs . Singh s hirc 

lings - - 7 - 29m . (Length retaincd : 8 .70m .) 
XIV : In the anal fight reduce drastically the fighting between the gang of Mrs. 7 

Singh and the gang of Natwarlal, by deleting gruesome killings and hard ( 25 . 
hitting punchos and chops (length retained : 13 . 90m . ) 

Delete the shots of killing by strangulation blood oozing out etc. — I 
Length of deletions : 182 - 90in . 

Length of approved replacement : 6 -05 in . 
Actual longth of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3823 -11m . in 15 rccis. 


B /71368 


" Ganga " (Hindi) (Col- 3479 38 ( 14 ) Green Light Filins, 265 G . D . Talwar, 265 - Frer 3229 
our) (35mm . ) Frer Road , Bombay - 1 Road , Bombay -1 . - - - - - With triangle mark 

15 - 6 -74 
Endorsement 
Original Length : 3501 71m . 
Cut Reel 

Mts 
No. No . 
1 III In the hand to hand fight between Ganga and Zamindar s son 

reduce the fight hy deleting hard hitting shots and chops on the 
stomach and chin , . 

9 . 14 
. 

. 
. 

10 .67m ) 
(longth retained 
2 IV Delete entwined legs and the portion where Sethji appears to 
be kissing a girl , 

2 -02 
3 V Reduce the shot of Gangu and Bindu with entwined legs 

1 . 42 
(Deleted completely ) 
4 VI Reduce the fight between Sheru and Ganga by deleting hard hit 
ing shots , 

4 . 94 
(Longth retained : 6 - 18m .) 
5 XI Reduce the impact of violence by deleting some of thc shots of 

dacoits getting killed during their cncounter with police . 3 . 05 

(Length retained : 7 : 32m .) 
6 XII Reduce to a flash dragging of a man tied to a horse 

1 : 52 . 
( length Retained : 1 . 52m .) 
7 XIII Delete the indocorous gestures and posts of the cabaret dancer dur 
ing the dance in hotel 

1 .89 
(Replacod with approved shots : 11 -89 m .) 
8 XIV Reduce the close up of blood coming out of would from Ganga s 
back 
. . . 

0 .24 

. 
Anoth wisiol . no 
Length of deletions : 34 -22m . 
Length of approved replacement : 11 - 89m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3479 .38 in . in 14 recls . 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


2256 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III - SEC , 4 


- - - 


- - 


- - - 


(1 ) 


(2) 


- 


- 


ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 : 
B /72228 
Film : “ A Winning Smoke " (Hindi) (Col ) 
U . Cort. No. 75127 of 4 -6 -1974 

This certificato is also valid for English vorsion of the film in colour, The length of the filin remains unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 10th Juno, 1974 . 
B /67113 

Film ; " Chorus (Hindi) 

U - Cert. No , 70707 of 19 - 9 - 1972 
Reel No . 1 : Deleted various shots ; 213 . 06 in . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 272 - 94 mtis , in onc recl. 

This cortificate was endorsed on 10th June, 1974 . 
B /71930 
Film : " Anjaan Raahen " (Hindi) (Col.) 
U - Cort, No . 74933 of 20 - 5- 1974 
Reel No . VIII ; Deleted various shots : 40 . 54 m . 

Actual length of the filna aftor the aforesaid deletions will bo : 3519 -87 m , in 15 reels . 

This cortificate was ondorsçd on 13t11 Junc, 1974 . 
B /59283 
Film : " Artists Of The Sky 
U -Cert. No.: 60525 of 25 -3 - 1970 
Corrections :- The No. of roels on the fuce of the certificato may be read as 2 instead of 1 . 

This certificato was endorsed on 14th Juno , 1974 , 
B / 70625 
Film : “ Krishan Chandor " (Urdu) 
U - Cert . No. 74036 of 6 -12 -1973 
Corrections ; - Tho length of the film on the face of the certificalc may be reach as 5710 m . inşload of 572 .00 mtrs . 

This certificate was endorsod on 14th June, 1974 . 


It 


B /72029 
Film : " Chhatrapati Shivaji " ( English ) 
U -Cert . No. 74872 of 1 -5 - 1974 


Corrections ;- - 


The length of the film on the face of the certificato inay bo read as 528 .00 mtrs , instead of 539 . 00 
mtrs . 


This certificate was endorsed on 14th Juno, 1974 . 

WEEK ENDING 15TH JUNE, 1974 


C - 8038 


Make Light of Liſting 
(English ) (Colour ) 
( 16mm ) U . K . 


213 36 ( 1) Ovcrsoas Publications Millbank Films Ltd . 

Service, 14 , Hare Șt, U . K . 
Cal.- 1 , 


73432 
- - - 
10 -6 -74 


- 


PE . 


C -8039 


243 .84 (1 ) 


Do , 


Do. 


Do. 


Nobody s Fault ( Eng 

ligh ) ( Col) (16mm ) 
UK 


U 
73433 
1 . - 
10 - 6 - 74 


PE . 


U 
73434 


C - 8042 


Volco & Vision 


Pachish Chalchhe 
Chalbe (Bengali) 
35mm - India 


210 - 32(1) Voice & Vision 3 , 

Madan Şt . 
Cal -13 . 


12- 6 - 74 


U 
73435 


C - 8043 


210 -32 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Wo Aro 25 ( English ) 

(35mm .) India 


Do. 
MADRAS 


12 -6 - 74 


U 


M - 8603 


67579 


"What It Takes ( Eng - 
lish ) (16mm ) B & W . 
USA 


219 . 45 ( 1) Higgibothams ( P ) Ltd ., Westinghouse Eloctric 
Madras . 

Intornational Co . , 
USA 


11 - 6 - 74 


U 
67580 


M - 8604 


Do . 


109 72 ( 1 ) 


" Kecp Then Protec - 
ted (English (Colour ) 
( 16mm ) USA 


Do . 


Take 


Do . 


wer) 


109-726 ) 


11 -6 -74 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


PART III — SEC. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2257 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


1 


2 


U 


M -8605 


87 -78 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do. 


67581 - 


The Wide World of 111 - 
duction Heating 
(English ) ( Colour) 
16mm . USA 


11- 6 - 74 


M / 8606 


197 50 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


" Trudemission for To 
morrow (English ) 
(Colour) 16mm . USA 


U 
67582 


11-6 - 74 


M /8617 


U 


Annaiyar Iruvar ( Ta 
inil) 35nn . B & W . 
India 


610 .00 ( 2) Directorato of Infor - 

mation & Public Re- 
lations, Mudias . 


Directorate of Infor 
mation & Public Re 
lations, Madds 


67583 


PE . 


11 - 6 - 74 


M /8618 


Do . 


M /8612 


‘ Paruthi Velanmaikku 305 . 00 ( 1 ) 

Do . 

U 
Vazhi Muaigal ( Tan 

67584 PE 
mil ) 35min . B & W . 
India 

11 - 6 - 74 
Nagaram Sagutam 3632 .00 (14 ) Thripthi Filing, Bunga - Thripthi Pilms, Banga . U With cuts. 
(Malayalum ) 35ınm , 

loro lore 

67585 
B & W . India 

13 -6 - 74 
Endorsement on cert , No . 67585 -U dt. 13-6 - 74 14911ed to the film Nagaram Sagaram (Malayalam ) 35 mm . B & W . 

Length applied . 3633 -22 Mts . 
Cuts 

Mts . 
1 . Roel 8 - Delcto Basi s words What is inside the blouse " in the song ? 

lovo you Clousie . (Sound only) . . . . . . . 
2 . Reel 11 – Shot of Malli s legs , abdomen , downwards shown zooming for 
ward and backward . . . . . . . . 

i 
. 

1. 22 

1 . 22 
3. Recl 12 – Dolete Basi s word Do not touch my private parts (Sound 

only ) . . . . . . . . . . . 


Total 


1 . 22 


M /8633 


305 


Actual longth will bo 3632 . 00 Mts , in 14 Reols . 
Tamil nadu Govt, 

The Directorate of [ 11 - 
Regional Nows Bulletin 

forination & Public 
No. 118 ( Tamil) 35mm 

Relations, Madias 
B & W . India 


Tho Directorate of In 
formation & Public 
Relations, Madras 


67586 


13 -6 - 74 


M /8569 


Roshini Aur Andhera 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
35mm . India 


3431 .44 (14 ) Rasuna Enterprises , 

Madras 


Ralang Enterprises, 
Madras 


U 
67587 


13 -6 - 74 


M /8614 


Ungal Virupai ( Ta - 

inil) 35mnm , B & W 
India 


3982 -80 ( 14 ) Sri Chithra Mahal, 

Madras 


Sri K . Krishnamurti, 

Madras 


67588 


with 


cuts , 


14 - 6 - 74 


Endorsemont on cert, No . 67588 -U dt. 14 - 6 - 74 issued to the filin ‘Ungal Virupam ( Tamil) 35 mm . B & W . 

Length applied 3884 82 Mts . 
Cuts 

Mts, 
1, Reel 6 Delete the first shot of song 2 — Raja Durai, Shown botwoon tho 
legs of Sakuntala . 

0 . 91 
. 
2 . Rool 11 — Delete tho words of Vocraswami— " Press button soukaryam 
athaye vai" . 

0 .91 


Total 


1 .82 


Actual legnth of the film will be 3982 .00 Mts , in 14 Rocls , 


M /8607 


Electrical Proving 
Ground (Eng ) (Colour) 

16 13m . 4USA 


274 -32 (1 ) Higginbothams (P ) Ltd . Westignhouse Electric 
Madras 

International Co, USA 


U 
67589 


15 -6 -75 


2258 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III — Soc. 4 


-- - - - 


- 3 


- - 


- - - - - 


- - - - - - - - - - - 


- - -- 


- - - 


- 


- 


-= - =- = - = - 


= - = - - = - 


- = 


= 


-- 


(1) 


(2 ) 


(3) 


(4) 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY 
THE CENTAL BOARD OF FJLM CENSORS DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 22ND JUNF , 1974 


U 


B /72242 


75170 


“ Hat Snow " ( English ) 2861 00 ( 10 ) Sovoxportſlm , Bakh - Masfilm Studio , 
( Savcolour ) (Sov 

tiyar , Bombay - 5 . 
scopo) (35 nim .) 


17 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72243 


80 .00 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do. 


75171 


" Trailor of Hot Snow " 
(English ) (Soyscope ) 
(Savcolour) (35 mm .) 


17- 6 - 74 


U 


B /72240 


Do . 


Do. 


75172 


“ Tho Fight ?" (English ) 4384 00 (20 ) 
(Savcalour ) (Soy. 
scopo) (35 mm .) 


17 - 6 - 74 


B / 72241 


102 . 00 (1 ) 


U 
75173 


Do , 


Do , 


" Trailor of The Fight" 
( English ) (Soyscope) 
(Sovcolour) (35 mm .) 


17 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72270 


F , B , Productions, 


75174 


" Troat It Squarely " 
(Advt. ) ( English ) 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 


22 . 86 (1 ) F . B . Productions , Film 

Contre 68- Tardco 
Road , Bombay - 34 . 


18 -6 -74 


B / 72271 


75175 


“ Khushi Ka Bhed " 
(Advt.) (Hindi) 
( Colour ) (35 mm .) 


30 . 48 ( 1) Animalod Advertising , Animaled Advertising . 

57 Ghoga Street, 
Indira Villa , Fort , 
Bombay - 1 . 


18 - 6 - 74 


U 


B / 72263 


75176 


" Kis Ka Nuksian " 
(Documontary ) 
(Hindi) ( 35 inın .) 


129 54 ( 1 ) V . S . Enterprisos , 11 . Miss Vimala , V . S . 

Ran -Shyam Niwas , Enterprises . 
S . D . Temple Rd ., 
Bombay - 16 . 


P . C . 


18 -6 - 74 


U 
75177 


B /71840 


" Heart of Russia " 1112 . 00 ( 10 ) USSR Consulate Gen - Mosfilm Studio . 
(Russian with Tamil 

Oral, Bombay . 
Commontary ) (Col.) 
( 16 mm .) 


18 -6 - 74 


U 


B / 71841 - 2 


978 -00 (9 ) 


Do . 


" Funny Fellow From 
5th B " (Punjabi & 

Telugu ) ( USSR ) ( 16 
mm ). 


Maxim Gorky Film 
Studio . 


75178 


18 -6 -74 


U 


B /72197 


“ Tho Exporience " 

(English ) (Colour ) 
(Adyt.) (35 mm .) 


B /72296 


" Indian Nows Reviow 
No. 1340 " (Newsreel ) 
(35 min .) 


B /72295 


Do . 


“ Indian News Roviow 
No. 1340 " (Eastorn 
Edition ) (35 min .) 
(Newsrool) 


30 -48(1) Climb Films, _ Aran Climb. Films, 

75179 
Chambers , Tardeo 
Road , Bombay - 34 . 

18 - 6 -74 

U 
213 .00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 75180 (Valid for Fnglish , 
of India , 24 -Poddar of India , 24 -Peddar - 

Hindi, Marathi , 
Roud , Bombay -26 . Road , Bombay - 26 19 - 6 -74 Gujarathi, Tamil , 

Telugu , Kannada , 
Malayalam , Panjabi, 
Kashmiri Urdu 

& Sindhi versions.) 

U 
297 00 ( 1 ) Do . 

75181 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Bongali 
Assamose , Oriya , 

vorsions . ) 

U 
288 34 ( 1 ) 

75182 (English , Hindi , 

Marathi, Gujarati , 
19 - 6 - 74 Tanil , Tolugu , 

Kannada , Malaya 
lam , Bongali 
Oriya , Assamese , 
Punjabi, Urdu , 
Kushiniri & Sindhi 

vorsions ) 

U 
237 -74 ( 1) Liaison Officor , Govt. Diroctor , of Informa - 75183 

of Gujarat, Bombay - tion Govt . ofGujarat. - 
1 . ajudals Bombasa 

19 -6 - 74 


19 -6 - 74 


B /72294 


Do . 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1341 ( A )" (News 
rool) (35 mm ) 


Tallillada 
, Maong 


B /72280 


“ Mahiti Chitra No . 
184 " (Gujarati) 
(Newsrool ) 35 mm .). 


PART III — SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTI OLINDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 

- - - - - - -- - - - - - 
- -- - - -- - 


ITIT 


re 


TA 


2259 


22 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


2 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


-- - 


B / 72292 - 93 


" Rajyabhishok " ( Eng. 
lish ) (Col.) (35 mm ) 


U 
75184 


276 .00 ( 1 ) Director Genoral of In - Director General of In 

formation & Public formation & Public 
Relation , Govt . of Rolation . 
Maharashtra , 


(Valid for Hindi , 
Marathi Versions .) 


19-6 -74 


B /72291 


B97 . 84 ( 1 ) 


Do , 


Do, 


U 
75185 


" Ala Kharipacha 
Hangam " (Documen 
tary ) (Marathi) (35 
mm .) 


19 - 6 - 74 


B / 72272 


" Trailor of Chowkidar 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
(35 mm ) 


103 63 ( 1 ) Namaia Movies . Gopal Ralhan , Non 

Famous Cine Blg . , ratu Movies , Famous 
Bombily 

Cine Bldg. , Bombay . 


75186 

- 
20 -6 -74 


With triangle mask , 


I 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 104 - 46 in . 

Metres 
1. Reduce thio shot showing one of tho goondas raping a village girl . (Length 
retainod : 0 . 13 m . ) 

0 - 49 
Delete the shot showing Doctor s piercing tho eyo of a goonda fight 
ing with the Doctor . 

. . 0 :34 
Length of delotions : 0 ·83 in . 
Actual length of tho film after the aforesaid deletions will bo : 103 .63 m . 

U 
" Apni Garibi Aap 289 .56 ( 1 ) O , P . Mishra , C / o . O . M . Prakash Mishra 75187 
Mitayen " (Hindi) 

Cino tricks & Effects , & S , S , Saxena , 
(35 mm . ) 108 , Main Road , 

20 - 6 - 74 
Bombay - 

U 
" Primary kit" (Euglish ) 405 . 69 (2 ) Depit, of Tcaching Deptt of Teaching 75188 
(Documentary ) (35mm .) Aids ( N . C . E .K T ) Aids. ( N . C . E . 

- - 
Indraprast Estate . K . T .) 

20 - 6 - 74 


B /72262 


P .E . 


B /72289 


P . E . 


B / 72287 


114 . 30 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


" Know Your Biology 
Kit Part 1 (Botany ) 
( English ) ( 16 mm .) 


U 
75189 

- PE , 
20 - 6 - 74 

U 
75190 

P. E . 
20 -6 - 74 


B /72284 


201 - 47 (2 ) 


Do . 


" Know Your Biology 
Kit Part III " (Humani 
Phiysiology ) (Fnglish ) 
( 16 mm . ) 


B / 72286 


U 
75191 


Do . 


" Prarambhik Bhau 
tika 

Shikshan " 
(Hindi) (35 mm . ) 


P . E . 


20 - 6 - 74 

U 
75192 


B /72290 


N 


Do , 


“ Teaching Elementary 
Physics " ( English ) 
(35 mm ) 


P . E . 


20 - 6 - 74 

U 
75193 


B / 72285 


Do . 


" National Scionco 
Exhibition " (English ) 
( 35 mm .) 


P . E . 


20 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72288 


588 - 26 (2 ) 


Do , 


75194 


" Living Together" 
(English ) (35 mm .) 


P . E . 


20 - 6 - 74 

U 
75195 


B /71906 


With triangle mark , 


22 - 6 - 74 


" Trailor of Patthar 94 · 18 ( 1) S . Kamruddin , C /o . P . D , Singh , L . P . 
Aur Payal" (Hindi ) 

Bombay Film Lab . Singl . 
( Colour) (35 mm .) 

Pvt. Ltd ., Bombay - 28 , 
Endorsement : 

Original Length : 103 -63 m . 


Metres 


1 , 
2 . 


Delete tho low angle close shot of cabaret dancer. (Blown up ) 
Delete tho dialogue bolweon the dacoit and his aido : " Laụndja kafi jor 
daar hai. . . . Aap ko sanne is maal ko loot loon , " 
Reduce gruesome shots of violenco . (Length rotained : 6 .40 m . ) . . 

Longth of deletion : 9 .47 m . 
Actual longth of the film after the aforosiid deletions will bo : 94 . 18 m . . 


4 . 88 
4 :59 


3 . 


16 - 369GI/75 


2260 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) (Part III — Sec . 4 


1 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - 


- 


(2 ) 


( 3) 


(5 ) 


(6 ) 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


Endorsement Under Rule 34 : 

B /72260 
Tilm : " Pin Before You Pusl" ( Fnglish ) 
U - C ert. No, 73793 of 9 - 11 - 1973 . 
This certificate is also valid for the following vorsions of the filmsunder the titles indicatod against cach of them . 
I lindi 

Puta Ko Sath Pin Codo Number 
Marathi 

Paiyat Pin Code Number Liho 
Gujrati 

Siljnama Man Pin Codo Laklu 
Tamil 

Thapal Kuri En 
Telugu 

Tapula Sankaryum 
Kannada 

Tapal Pin Code 
Malayalam 

Thapal Pip Number 
Assameso 

Thipanat Pin Code Diba 
Punjabi 

Pata Liklio , Pin Do Naal 
Benguli 

Chithir Thikanzly Pin Codo 
Oriya 

Thikunare Pin Code Lokhantu 
Urdu 

Pata , Pin Code Ke Saathi . 


The length of the film remains unchunged . This certificate was endorsed on 17th June, 1974 . 
B / 70579 
Film : " Dharmendra Plays Pockenqur" 
U -Cort . No . 74795 of 18 -4 - 9174 . 

Merres 
Ruel Nos, I Deleted various shots . 

11 . 94 
II : Deleted various shots . . . . . . 20 -73 
Deleted various shots 

. . . . 86 .87 
XIII ; Deleled various shots 

72 . 74 
XIV : Deleted various shots . 

20 . 39 
Length of deletions : 212 . 67 m . 
Actual length of the ſilnı after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3964 03 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 20th June, 1974 . 
B /71574 
Film : " Call Girl" (Hindi) 
A - Cert. No . 3227 of 28th May, 1974. 

Merres 
Reel No. IX ; In Song begining with the words " Dil Jalo to koi kya 

karc kuchh kaho n . . . , " 
auluded " Koi yaha gair nahin Mera hath le lo " along 
with the picturisation . , . . . 

. 15 -23 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid additions will be : 3347 -66 m . 

This certificato was endorsed on 20th June , 1974 . 
B / 72348 -53 
Film : “ Philips (Lights ) (English ) (Colour ) 
U - Cert. No. 74927 of 18 -5 - 1974 . 

This certificate is also valid for Telugu , Hindi, Kannada , Tamil, Malayalam and Bengall versions of the film in 
colour . The length of the film remains unchanged . This certificato was entorsed on 21st June, 1974 . 


Week Endine 22nd June, 1974 . 


U 


C /8045 


73436 


Hironmoy Parikrama 
( Bonzali) 35 mm . 
India . 


610 .00 ( 2 ) Aurora Film Corpora - Aurora Film Corpora 

tion P . Ltd , 175, tion P . Ltd . 
Dharamtala St, Cal. 


17 - 6 -74 


13 . 


C /8044 


U 
73437 


Trailer of 
(Bengali) 
India , 


Daabi 
35 mm . 


94 .45 ( 1 ) Kalyana Movies P . Kalpana Movies P . 

Ltd . 59 , Bentinck St., Lid , 
Calcutti - l . 


17 -6 - 74 


C / 8046 


73438 


Umno - O - Jhumno 3,432 -66 (13 ) Somcn Chitram , 25 -G , Somen Chatterjee 
(Bengali ) 35 mm . 

Raja Bagan Lane , 
India , 

Cal -30 , 


19 - 6 - 74 

U 
73439 


C /8053 


Praner Hillol (Bengali ) 
33 mm . India . 


14 : 24 ( 1 ) Nishaan Motion Pic - Sohrah Boga , Bombay . 

tures , Boinbay . 


22- 6 - 74 


M /8619 


( Tamil) 4458 . 00 ( 17 ) Jeyam 
& W . 

Madras. 


Roshakari 
35 mm . B 
India , 


Combines, Jeyam 

Madras. 


Combines, 


U 
67590 


- 


With cut 


th cuts, 


17 - 6 - 74 


- 


-- - - 


PART III — SEC , 41 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 
- --- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - 


2261 
- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


( 1) 


(2 ) 


( 3) 


Endorsement : 
Cert. No. 67590 - U dt. 17 -6 -74 issued to the film Roshakuri ( Tamil) 35 mm . B & W . 

Length applied : 4466 -22 Metres . 
Cuts . 

Metres 
1. Reel 5 - . Delete in song 2 – Kala s motion of moving her bust close to 

Raghu s lips on the line " Pidithal etc." (Replaced approved 

sliot 1 . 52 ) . . . . . . . . . . 1 : 52 
2. Reel 5 – Delete whenever Kala moves with legs aprrt , showing cleavage . 
(Replaced approvcıl shot 0 . 91 ) . . . . . . . 

0 . 91 
3 . Recl 16 % Delete the words of Ekambarani Padinillu Vayadhu Pulluinga 

. . . .Meesui Mulachudhu Pasangal. " till the sentence refers to 
Raschu . 

8 .22 


Total : 


10 .65 


Total replicement 2 -43 Mts . Actual length 4458 .00 Mts . in 17 Reels . 


U 
67591 


M /8623 


* Akhiri Nishan 3651 - 50 (14 ) Hemalata Filins Shri Manu Madnani, 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 

(Madras ), Macras . Macrag. 
35 mm . India . 


17 - 6 - 74 

U 
67592 


M /8643 


Varthachitra 30 
( Kannada ) 35 mm . B . 
& W . India , 


289 . 56 (1 ) Director of Informa - Director of Informa- 

tion & Publicity , Ban - tion & Publicity, 
valore . 

Bangalore . 


18 - 6 - 74 

U 
67593 


M / 8644 


289 .56 ( 1) 


Do . 


Du 


Vartha Chitra 31 
(Kannada ) 35 mm . B 
& W . India , 


18 - 6 - 74 


Central Board of Film Censor s, Madras-6 . Particulars of films certified during week ending 22-6 - 1974 . 


M /8526 


*Kno Your Car 
( English ) 16 mm . B & 
W . USA 


164 -58 ( 1) Headmaster, Govt. National Audio Visual 

High School , Bung: 1- Centre , Washington , 
lowpudur. 

USA . 


67594 

- 
19-6 - 74 


P . E , 


u 


M /8527 


197 .50 (1 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


67595 


‘Kow Airplanes Fly 
(English ) 16 mm . B & 
W . USA , 


P . E . 


M / 8528 


43 . 89 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


19 - 6 - 74 

U 
67596 

- 
19 - 6 - 74 


*Basic Llectricity Cur - 
rent Flow , What It is " 
( English ) 16 mm . B & 
W . USA 


P . E . 


M /8528 


U 
67597 


43 . 89 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


" Basic Electricity A . 

C . Parallel Circuit 
(English ) 16 mm . B & 
W . USA . 


P . E . 


19 - 6 - 74 


U 


M /8613 


M /8625 


nanwani s Tailors 36 .00 (1 ) Gopi Cine Arts, Gopi Cine Arts , 67598 
( English ) 35 mm . B & 

Madras . 

Madras 
W . India , 

20 - 6 - 74 

U 
Night Club Mohini 3801 - 76 ( 13 ) Blue Mount Pronds., Blue Mount Pronds ., 67599 
( Tamil) 35 ini . B & 

Madras . Madras. 

-- With cuts . 
W . Indii . 

21- 6 -74 
Endorsement : 
Cert. No. 67599- U dt. 21st June 1974issued to the ſilm Night Club Mohini ( Tamil). 

Longth applied : 3822 17 Mts. 
Cuts . 

Metres 
1. Reel S . Delete the action of Jill Jill in dance before the police action . 20 - 41 
2 . Reel 11 – Delete the shot of Babu hitting Kalpanu on her postcrior. (Re 

the 
placcd birs flying ) . 

1. 52 


Total : 


21 .93 


Total replacement 1. 52 Mts. Actual length is 3801 •76 Mts. in 15 Reels . 


U 
67600 


M /8634 


Trailer of O Scetha 
Katha ( Telugu ) 35 
mm . B & W . India , 


125 .00 ( 1) Sovereign Cine Linter. Sovereign Cine Enter 
Prisos, Madras . 

prises, Madras. 


21- 6 - 74 


. - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - - - - 


- - 


- - 


2262 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part II - SEC . 4 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


U 


M / 8622 


Kurangu Manam 
( Tamil) 35 mm . B & 
W . India , 


610 .00 ( 2 ) The Directorate of In - The Directorate of in - 

formation & Public formation & Public 
Relations , Madras , Relations, Madras, 


67601 
- - 

21- 6 - 74 


M /8630 


15 -24 ( 1) Shri Gopal K . Maha 

resh , Mudras, 


Higgini Kunita 
(Kannada ) (Colour) 
35 mm . lodia , 


Shri Sohrab 
Madras . 


Boga , 


U 
67602 


M / 8631 


15 . 24 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Janapada Nrutyam 
( Telugu ) (Colour ) 
35 min . India . 


21 - 6 - 74 

U 
67603 
21-6 -74 


| Մ 


M /8632 


15 . 24 ( 1) 


Do . 


67604 


Bangra Natanam 

( Tamil) (Colour ) 
35 mm , India . 


21- 6 - 74 

U 
67605 


M /8562 


79 .23 ( 1 ) 


Productions, 


Frontiers in Compu 
tor Graphics ( Eng. ) 
(Colour ) 16 mm . 
USA . 


1. B . M . World Trade Pacific 
Corp ., Madras , USA . 


21- 6-74 


M / 8563 


75 . 46 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Jodo -Whitncy , 


U 
67606 


Shri 
USA . 


The Muscum of 
Modern Art Filmi 
Library (English ) 
( Colour ) 16 min . 
USA , 


21- 6 - 74 


U 


M /8564 


67 .91 (1 ) 


Do . 


I . B . M . World Trade 
Corpn ., USA , 


67607 


IBM - The 
System 
( Colour) 
USA . 


Graphic 
(English ) 
16 mm . 


21 - 6 - 74 


U 
67608 


M /8565 


8677 ( 1 ) 


T. B . M . World Tradic 
Corpn ., Madras . 


1. B . M . World Trado 
Corpn . , USA . 


Laboratory Automa 
tion Based System 
(Englişlı ) (Colour ) 
16 mm . USA . 


21- 6 - 74 


U 
67609 


M /8566 


‘MIS Shop Tracking 
(English ) (Colour) 
16 mm . USA . 


67 . 91 ( 1 ) I . B . M , World Trade Acrolog for Graumann 

Corpn . , Madras . Aircraft, USA . 


21- 6 - 74 


M /8567 


45 - 27 ( 1) 


Do. 


U 
67610 


Time Sharing Option 
(English ) ( Colour ) 
16 mm . USA . 


I. B . M , World Trade 
Corpn . , USA . 


21 - 6 - 74 


U 


M /8636 & 37 


67611 


"New Era (n Scri- 
culture (English & 
Kannada ) 35 mm . B 
& W . India . 


466 .00 ( 2 ) Shri H . M . K . Murthy , Shri H . M . K . Murthy , 
Bangalore . 

Bangaloro . 


22 - 6 - 74 


18 ) SIT Le 


M /8629 


U 
Radhainma Pell 47996 Sri Lakshminarasiinha Sri Lakshminarasimha 67612 
( Telugu ) 35mm B & 

Productions , Madras. Productions, Madras . 
W . Iadia . 

22-6 -74 
PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL 

BOARD OF FILM CENSORS DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 29TH JUNE, 1974 


U 
75196 


B / 72283 


“ Doosri Seeta " (Hindi) 3007 .47 ( 12 ) Bubber Films, 2 -Ap - B . S . Khanna & J L . 
( Colour) ( 35 mm . ). 

Sara Apartment, Bubber, 2 -Apsara 
Bandra - 50 . 

Apartment, Bombay - 50 


- 


24 -6 - 74 

U 
75197 with triangle mark . 


B /72257 


24 - 6 - 74 


" Chowkidar (Hindi) 3946 25 (16 ) Namrata Movios , Fa - Gopal Ralhau 
( Colour ) (35 mm . ) 

mous Cino Bldg ., 
Mahalaxmi 

Bombay - 11 . 
Endorsement , 
Original Longth : 3964 23 m . 

Șr, Cul 
No. No . 
1. VII. Delete suggestion of kiss between Jagirdar Gopal and the dancer 

whilo sitting on a coach . . . . . . . 


3 . 00 m . 


PART III — Sec. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) 


2263 


FR 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- - - 


7 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


4 . 22 m . 


1 .83 m . 


- 
Cut 
No . 
XII : Reduce to half shots Showing Doctor being dragged by means 

of a rope by Gopal on a horso . . . . . . 

(Length retained : 3 . 96 m .) 
XIV : In the fight between Doctor and Jagirdlar s face smeared with 

blood . . . . . . . . . . . 
XV : Delete the shot showing chowkica s stick piarcing the eye of . 

voonda who has fallen down , . . . 
XVI : Reduce the overall impact of fight between Doctor and Gopal 

with his aides by deleting gruesome close shots of hitting on the 

face and stomach . . . . . . 
Length of deletions : 17 . 98 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 3946 -25 m in 16 reels 


16 m . 


787 m . 


U 
75198 


B /71926 


" Sati Arundhati " 3908 · 15 (15) Virendra Kumar Agar- Giriraj Movies, Hy- 
(Marathi) (35 mm .). 

wal Giriraj Movies , drabad - 2 . 
C / o Bombay Guest 
house , Bonbay 26 


24 -6 - 74 


U 
75199 


B /72343 


" Trailer of Ghatna " 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
( 35 mm .). 


70 .00 ( 1 ) Aradhana 

Bombay - 50 . 


Films, 


Films, Aradhana 

Bombay - 50 . 


24 - 6 - 74 

U 
75200 


B /72244 


" The Man From Thc 2675 .00 ( 10 ) Sovexport film Colabu , A Gorky Film Studio 
Other Sido " (English ) 

Bombay - 5 . 
(Sovscopo ) (Sovco 
lour) (35 mn .) (USSR ) 


24 - 6 -74 


U 


B /72245 


Do . 


Do 


75201 


75201 


" Trailer of Tho Man 
From the Other Sido " 
(English ) (Soyscopc) 
( Sovecolour) (35 ini . ) 
(USSR ) . 


24 - 6 - 74 


U 
75202 


B /72249 


114 .00 (1) 


" Trailer of Ruslan and 

Ludmila " ( English ) 
(Sovecolour) (35 mm ) 


24 - 6 - 74 

U 
75203 


B /72247 


80 . 00 ( 1) 


“ Trailer of Tho Re 
public s Property " 
( English ) (Sovscope ) 
(Soveolour) (35 mm . ) 
(USSR ) . 


24 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72219 


75204 Not P . E . 


" Kerala I - [odia " (No 
Comnientaty ) (Music 
Only ) (Colour) ( 35 
mm .) (Documentary ) . 


73 .00 ( 1 ) Filins Division , Govi, Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar — 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 


25 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72220 


59 .00 (1 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


75205 


Not P . E . 


" Ganges- India " (No 
Commentary ) (Music 
Only ) ( Colour) (35 
mm .) (Documentary ) 


25 -6 -74 


U 
75206 


B /72224 


54 .00 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


Not P . E . 


" Manipur- India " (No 
Commentary ) (Music 
Only ) (Colour ) (35 
mm ). (Documentary ) . 


25 -6 - 74 


U 
75207 Not P .E . 


B /72222 


78 .00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do. 


" Korala II - India " (No 
Commentary. Music 
Only ) ( Colour) 
(35 mm .). 


25 -6 - 74 


U 


B / 72237 


Mountain Films Ltd . , 


U - 75208 Not P . E 


“ Men of War " ( English ) 182 . 88 ( 1) National Education & 
(16mm . ) ( U . K .) 

Information Films Ltd ., 
Bombay - 1 . 


25 - 6 - 74 
U 
75209 Not P . E . 


B /72233 


“ Perfect Day " (Eng- 
fish ) ( 16mm . ) (U . K .) 


182 .88 (1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


25-6 - 74 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2264 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) (PART III - SEC. 4 


DI 


- 


- 


- 


M 


V 


- OS 


FLV 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - - 


- - - 


12 


1 


2 


1 


B /72209 


259 - 08 ( 1) 


U 
75210 


Do. 


D 


. 


Do . 


" Script to Screen " 
( English ) ( Colour) 
( 16min .) (Canada ) 


P . E . 


25 - 6 - 74 


B / 72236 


192 .88 (1) 


U 
75211 Not P . E . 


Do. 


" Blotto " (English ) 

(16 mm .) ( U .K .) . 


Do. 


Do . 


TOU 


25 - 6 - 74 


B /72238 


" One Good Turn " 
( English) ( 16 mm .) 

(Ů . K .) 


U 
182 - 88 ( 1 ) National Education & Mountain Films Ltd . 75212 Not P . E . 

Information Films 
Ltd ., NationalHouso 

25 -6 -74 
Tullach Road , Bon 
bay - 1. 

U 
243 -84 ( 1) Liaison Officer, Govt. Director of Informa- 75213 
ofGujarat, Bombay -1 tion Govt. of Gujarat -- 

26 - 6 -74 


B / 72344 


" Mahiti Chitra No. 
185 " (Gujarati) (35 
mm . ) (Newsrcel) 


B / 72387 


U 
75214 


(Valid 


for English , 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1341 " (Southern 
Edition ) ( 35 mm . ) 


296 . 90 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Roud , Bombay - 26 . 


Hindi, Tamil, Tel . 


26 - 6 - 74 


gu , Kannada , 
Malayalam ver 
sions .) 


B / 72386 


212 -75 ( 1) 


U 
75215 


Do, 


Do. 


" Indian News Revlow 
No . 1341" (Newsrocl) 
(35 mm .). 


26 - 6 - 74 


(Valid for English , 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, Bengali , 
Asamoso , Oriya , 
Punjabi, Kashmiri 
and Urdu ver 
sions ). 


B /72196 


365 -76 (1 ) Director, T.V . Centre 


U 
75216 


Rolox Films 


P . E . 


" Strango Planot " 
( English ) ( Colour) 
(16 mm .) (Geneva ). 


26 - 6 - 74 


B / 72266 


U 
75217 


“ Vinod Khanna Ki 
Shooting " (Hindi) 
(Colour) Adyt. 
(35mm .) . 


27 : 43 ( 1 ) Video Arts , Figure Video Arts. Bombay - 1 

Ara , 160 - Churchgate , 
Reclamation , Bom 
bay - 1. 


Video Ars.Bombay-d _zip 


26 -6 - 74 


B /72265 


27 -43 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


U 
75218 


" Zinda Dil Logon 
Ki Pasand " (Hindi) 
(Colour ) (35 mm .) 
Advt.) . 


26 - 6 - 74 


B / 72143 


30 .48 (1) 


F . B . Productions 


75219 


" Tho Camera " (Eng- 
lish ) (Colour ) ( 35 
mm .) (Advt .) . 


F . B . Productions , 
Film Contre , 68 - Tar 
deo Road , Bombay 
34 . 


26 - 6 - 74 


B / 72142 


30 -48 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


" Mothor Caro " ( Eng- 
lish ) (Colour ) (Advt.) 
(35 mm .). 


Do. 


75220 


15229 


26 -6 -74 


B /72330 


" The Makors of The 
Groon Revolution " 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 35 mm .) 


U 
847 .00 ( 3) Shri Gopal K . Maha - Shri S . Sukhdev, Uni- 75221 P . E . 

resh , General Mana . ted Filin Arts, Bom - - - 
ger , M /s . United bay - 18 . 

26 - 6 - 74 
Film Arts , Bombay- 18 . 


B/72277 


(English ) 

(Advt.) 


" Blue Jet" 
( Colour ) 
( 35 mm .) 


Advertising 


U 
75222 


Radio 
Services . 


30 .48 (1 ) Radio Advertising 

Sorvicos , Cocil Court 
Lansdown Road , 
Bombay- 1. 


26 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72346 


75223 


" Maharashtra " (Eng - 
ligh ) (Col.) (Docu 
montary) (35 mm .). 


430 - 00 (2 ) Maja Mediums, C /21, Maja Modiums 

Tardeo Air Condi 
tioned Market, Bom 
bay - 34 . 


26 - 6 - 74 


- 


- - - 


PART III - SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 2265 
- - - --- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - --- ----- - - - -- - -- -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 
1 2 

3 4 

5 

67 


- 


U 


- 


- 


G 


- 


- 


+ - - 


PTT 


B /72334 


30 - 48 (1 ) 


75224 


“ Face To Faco " (Eng . 
lish ) (Colour) (35 
mm .) (Advt. ). 


M /s Film , 5, Jyoti M /s . Film 5, 
Studio , Kennedy 
Bredge , Bombay - 7 . 


26 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72333 


30 .48 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do , 


75225 


" Como Closer " ( Eng - 
lish ) (Colour ) ( 35mm ) 
(Advt.). 


26 - 6 -74 


B / 72340 


75226 With trianglo mark . 


26 - 6 - 74 


" Trailer of Pyase Dil " $ 5 : 34 ( 1 ) Now Ashoka Inter - New Ashoka Inter 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 

national, 

national 
( 35 mm .), 
Endorsement — 
Original Length : 85.95m . 

Delete the shot of a comedian pushing his buttock up while the nurse is holding 
injection in hor hand 
Length of delotion : 0 .61 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesald deletions will be : 85 . 34 m . 


0 .61 m . 


B /70537 


B /72130 


B /72176 


“ D .M . S ." ( English ) 327 .00 (2) Filnis Division , Govt. Film Division , Govt. 75227 
(Documentary) (35 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 -Peddar - - P . E . 
Am . ). Road , Bombay - 26 . Road, Bombay - 26 . 26 - 6 - 74 

U 
" The Rainbow Boys " 2527 -40 (10 ) Film Finance Corpo - Canadian Film Deve- 75228 With triangle maik 
(English ) (Colour) 

Tution , 91 - Walkosh - lopment Corporation 
( 35mm .) (Canada ). war Road , Bombay -6 

26 - 6 - 74 
Endorsement , 
Original Length : 2529 .64 m , 

Delete the underlined words from the undermontioned dialogue : 
Cut Page 
No . No . 

40 " Scrowing" spokon by Gladys to Logan – 0 , 24 m .. 
2 . 

Delete the closo shots of Play boy pin ups displayed on wall in Logan s shack .- 2 . 00 m . 
Longth of Deletions : 2 - 24 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 2527 40m . 

U 
" Jai Hind " (Hindi) 292 .00(1 ) Vithal & Co . 

Vithal & Co . 

75229 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 

GP, E . 
(Documontary ) 

27- 6 - 74 

U 
" Dastan -E -Laila Ma- 3955 . 69 (15) Chandra Art, Sushil Chandra Art . 75230 
jau (Hindi) ( Colour) 

Vihar, Vile Parle , 
Bombay- 57. 

27 - 4 - 74 

U 
" A Historic Visit-Mr. 1172 -00 (4 ) Films Division , Govt. Filins Division , Govt. 75231 
Brezhnoy In India " 

of India , 24 - Poddar of India , 24 -Peddar - -- - Not P . E . 
( English ) (Colour ) 

Road , Bombay- 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 27- 6 - 74 
(Documentary ) 35mm ) 

U 
" Bulgaria s Prime 694 -62 (3 ) 

Do . 

Do, 

75232 
Minister Mr. Stanko 
Todorov Visits Indlu " 

27- 6 - 74 
(English ) (Documon 
tary ) (35 mm .). 

U 
" Synthesis " (English ) 114 .00 ( 1 ) 

Do . 

75233 
( Colour ) (35 mm .) 

+ P . E . 
(Documentary ). 

29 - 6 -74 

U 
" Aashirwad " (Hindi) 30 .48 ( 1 ) Pratash Arora , Arora Prakash Arora , Arora 75234 
(Colour) (Advt.) 

Films, Arora Hospital Films Bombay -52 . 
Bombay- 52 . 

29 - 6 -74 


B / 72341 


B / 72281 


B / 72354 


B /72298 


Do . 


Do . 


DO. 


75233 


B /71121 


U 


B /72137 


277 .06 (1) 


" I. C . I. America Shows 
its Colour " ( English ) 
(Colour ) ( 16 mm ) 
(U . S . A .). 


CJ. ( India ) Private Imperial Chamical 
Ltd ,, Crescent House Industries Ltd .. 
19 -Walchand Hira . 
chand Marg , Bom 
bay- 1 . 


75235 

— . Not P . E . 
29 - 6 - 74 


B / 72367 


" Gupt Gyanamu" 3699 -12 ( 14) Adarsh Arts, Manek B. K . Adarsh , Adarsh 
( Telugu ) (Colour) 

Chambers, Bombay - 4, Arts . Bombay -4 . 
(35 mm .) . 


3230 
+ 
24 -6 -74 


P . E . 


2266 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [ PART III - SEÇ . 4 
= = - - - - - - - -- - - - -- -- - - - - - - -- = - - = - = = = - - - -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - 


- - - 


- - - -- - - 


- - 


- - 


+ 


- - + 


+ 


- 


- tres 


- 


- 


- Y 


U 


-G 


I 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


Endorsement Under Rule 34 

B /72297 
Film : “ Portrait of a Humanist " ( English ) 
U - Cert . No . 74842 of 26 - 4 - 1974 . 
This certificate is also valid for the following versions of tlie film undor the titles indicated against cach cftlıcm . 
Hindi . . Manav Vad Ka Ek Pujuri 

Malayalam Oru Manushyasnehi 
Marathi Manaytecha Ek Pujari 

EgarakiManabatar Pujari 
Gujarati Mandvata vudini Tagvir 

Punjabi . Insaniyat Da Pujari 
Tamil Manida bhimani Balraj Sahani Bengali , Manabatar Ik Pujari 
Telugu , Manavata wadi 

Oriya 

Manabåtar Jano Pujati 
Kannada OBBA Munavatavadi 

Urdu . Inguniyat Ka Pujari 
The length of the film remains unchanged . This certificate was endorsed on 24th June , 1974 . 
B /72267-68 
Film : " Ramon Bonus Stamps " (English & Hindi) (Colour) 
U - Cert. No. 73657 of 18 - 10 - 1973. 

This certificate is also valid for Bengali and Marathi versions of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 
unchanged . 

This certificate was ondorsed on 24th June, 1974 
B / 72278 
Film : " Cherana " (English ) 
U . Cort. No. 72863 of 16 -7 - 1973 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil version of the film in colour. The longth of the film romains unchanged , 

This cortificate was endorsed on 24th June , 1974 . 
B /71851- 7 
Film : " Philips" (Hindi) 
U - Cert. No, 74662 of 25 -3 - 1974 , 

This certificate is also valid for Bengali, Oriya, Kannada, Marathi, Telugu , Tamil and Gujarathi versions of the 
. film in colour. 

The length of the film romains unchanged . This certificate was endorsed on 24th June, 1974 . 
B / 72299 
Film : " Based on trust" ( English ) 
U -Cort. No. 75121 of 1st June , 1974 . 

This certificate is also valid for the following versions of the film under the titles Indicated against each of them . 
Hindi . Wishwas Ki Buat 

Malayalam Viswasam 
Marathi Vishwasachi Bub 

Assamese . Soito Bishwasar Katha 
Gujarati . Vishwagni Vaat 

Punjabi . . Wishwas DiGall 
Tamil Nambikkai 

Bengali Biswasor Par 
Telugu . , Naninakamu 

Oriya . Biswasar Katha 
Kannada Nambiko 

Urdu , Bharose Ki Baat. 
The length of the film remains unchanged. This certificate was endorsed on 24th June, 1974 . 
B /72058 
Film : " Paap Aur Punya " (Hindi) 
U -Cert. No. 75113 of 1- 6 - 1974 
Real No. 

V Deleted various shots : 14 : 33 m . 
IX Deleted various shots : 12 - 50 m . 
XTI Deleted various shots : 219 - 15 m . 
Xiy Deleted various shots : 49 - 37 .m . 
XVI Deleted various shots : 5 . 18 m . 

XVII Deleted various shots : 21 . 95 m . 
Length of deletions : 322 -48 m . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesald deletions will be : 4070 - 60m . in 17 reels . 

This cortificato was endorsod on 25th Juno, 1974 
B /72229 
Film : “ 36 Gbante" (Hindi) (Col.) 
U - Cert. No . 75156 of 13-6 - 1974 . 

Rool No. V : Deleted various shots : 137 . 16 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3722 -83m . in 15 reels. 
This Certificate was endorsed on 29th June , 1974 . 


PART III -- SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
- - - - -- - - - - - - -- - -- = - = 

- - -- - -- -- - 
5 


2267 
- - - 


7 


- 


+ 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


C /8017 


U 
73440 


Trailer of Bikaley 
Bhorer Phool ( Ben 
gali) (35 mm .) 
( India ) 


91 - 44 (1) K . L . Kapoor_ Films K . L . Kapoor Films 

11, Ganesh Chandra 
Avenue , Calcutta - 13 


25 - 6 - 74 


U 


C /8048 


Do . 


. 


73441 


Bikaley Bhorer Phool 3, 957 -83 (15) 
( Bengali) (35 mm .) 
(India ) . 


R . N . Malhotra & 
R , K . Kapoor 


25 -6 - 74 

U 
73442 


C / 8055 


Paschim Bange Sur 
haror Sangbad Chitra 
( 58 ) (Newsrecl) ( Ben ) 
gal ) ( 35mm ((India ). 


320 . 00 ( 1 ) Parijat Bagu Produc- Dept. of Infomil 

tions 1/ 32- F , Princetion & Public Rcle - - 
Golam Mohammad tions Govt , of West 
Road, Çal-26 . 

Bengal Writers Buil 
dings , Calcutta - 1. 


27-6 - 74 


M /8640 


CENTRAL BOARD OF TILM CENSORS, REGIONAL OFTICE, MADRAS- 6 
PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED DURING WEEK ENDING SATURDAY 29 -6 -74 

U 
Anaganaga Oka 4625 - 34 (16 ) Lavanya Picturos , Shri B . Uma Mahes - 67613 
Thandri ( Telugu ) 

Madras . 

waram (Mahesh ), - - - With Cuts 
( 35 mm .) B & W . 

Madras, 

25 -6 -74 
(India ). 
Endorsement on Cort. No . 67613 - 0 dt 25th June 1974 - issued to the film Anaganaga Oka Thandri ( Telugu ). 
Longth applied : 4634 - 78 Mts. 
Cuts . 

Mts . 
Roel 13 – Delete the ontlo soquence of Singanna molesting Lakshmi in hay 

3tick to suggestion only , especially deleting his lying over her and 
kissing her several times . (No objection to the portion of the shot 
in tho end when Ramamurthy comes thore and throws a stone aim 
ing it at Singanna ). (Retained 0 .09) 

9 . 44 


Total 


9 . 44 


Actual length of the film will be 4625 -34 Mts. In 16 Reels 


U 


M /8641 


Swathi Nakshathi- 4357 . 24 (15 ) Ashok Pictures , Ashok 

Pictures , 

67614 With Cuts 
rain ( Tamil) (Partly 

Madrus 

Mudras 
colour) (35 min ) 

26 - 6 - 74 
(India ) . 
Endorsement on cert . No , 67614 - U dt. 26th June 1974 - issued to the film Swathinakshathiram ( Tamil). 
Length applied : 4364 . 10 Mts . 

Cuts . 
1. Roel 6 Delele (st ) the close-up of the exposed thigh of Kannamma ; ( b ) the 

action of George s removing belt and unbuttoning pants at tho 
sight of Kannamma , 

4 . 86 


Mts . 


Total 


. 


. 


. 


4 . 86 


Actual length of filin will be 4359 24 Mts , in 15 Recls . 
Total colour portion is 598 - 31 Mts, in Reels 5 , 7 , 8 , 11, 12 & 15 . Black & White portion will be 3760 - 93 Mts . 


Trailer 


M /8638 


67615 


Trailer of Bhoogo - 
lam Thiriyunnu 
(Malayalam ) ( 35mm . ) 
B & W (India ) 


131 06 (1 ) Raja Silpi 

Madids 


Thiris 
mm .) 


Films, Shri P . Sreekumasan 

Thumpi, Madras 


27 - 6 - 74 


M / 7817 


60 -96 ( 1 ) Filmaids , Madras 


Shri Satish 
Madras 


U 
67616 


Kumar, 


P . E . 


Satrang Cinestrip - 35 
(Music with English 
titlos ) (35 mm .) 
B & W (India ) 


27 - 6 - 74 


U 
67617 


M /8628 


Movies , 


*Krishna yeni ( Telugu ) 4214 - 46 (16 ) Narendra Interna - Gopikrishna 
(Colur ) (35 mm ) 

tional, Madras . 

Madras 
(Indiu ) 


28 - 6 - 74 


M /8620 & 21 


U 
67618 


Super Tasto ( English 

& Hind) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) ( India ). 


30 . 48 ( 1) Durga Khote Prodns , Durga Khote Prodns, 
Madras. 

Madras. 


28 -6 - 74 
- - - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


17 = 369 G1/75 


2268 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) (PART III — SEC . 4 
SGH - - 

-- = = = = = = 

5 - = - = 
5 


- - - - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


— 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


M /8646 


U 
67619 


Krishnaswamy Assocl- Krishnaswamy Asso 
ates , (P ) Ltd . Mudras ciates ( P ) Ltd , Madras 


Bhoothamn Varukira 
thu Jagrithai ( Tamil ) 
( 16 mm . ) B & W 
(India ). 


28 -6 - 74 


M /8652 


Why Silversands 
( English ) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) ( India ) . 


213 - 36 (1 ) Shri Yeshwant H . Shri Yeshwant H 

Veecumsco, Mudras Voecumsee, Midrus 


67620 
– 
28- 6 - 74 


M /8309 


Negara , Mala 


67621 


Jaya Berjayu ( Eng- 
lish ) ( 16 mm ) B & W 
Malayagla ). 


99 . 35 ( 1 ) Malaysian High Film 

Commission , Madras ysia . 


28 - 6 - 74 


U 


M /8024 


M /8536 


‘Dialogue with 230 42 ( 1) Fr. T . V . James , Goldberg Bros. USA 67622 P . E . 
Doctor ( English ) 

Andhra Loyola Col 
(Colour ) ( 16 m . ) lego, Vijayawada . 

28 -6 -74 
(UŞA . ). 

U 
Netru Indru Nalai 4418 .06 ( 18 ) Amalraj Films, Shri S . A . Asokan , 67623 With Cuts . 
( Tamil ) (Colour) 

Madras . 

Madras. 
( 35 mm .) ( India ). 

29 - 6 - 74 
Endorsement on Cort . No. 67623- U dt. 29th June 1974 — issued to film Netru , Indru , Nalai ( Tamil ) (Colour). 
Length applied : 4444 . 82 Mts . 
Cuts 

Mts . 
1. Reol 4 ( ul ) Delete reference to use of cycle chain as a lethal weapon . 2 . 13 

(b ) Delete display of cycle chains before the fight . . . 5 . 17 
2 . Reel 13 Reduce the rope fight between Manickum and Jambu , eliminating 

the action of Manickam slashing thọ ropę repeatedly upon Jambu 
(Retained 9 . 14 ) . . . . . . . . . 

9 . 74 
3. Roel 17 Reduce action of fight to half the present longth , reducing the shot 

of Dayalan with eyes bleeding to il flash , or substitute a shot without 
showing blood ( Retained 2 -43 ) . . . . . . 

4 .86 
4 , Reol 17 Delete tho words " Padikkada vangal Ellam Doctor Pattam 
Ketkiranga " . . . . . . . 

4 .86 
. . . . 
Total . . . 26 . 76 


Actual length of film will be 4418 :06 Metres in 18 Reels . 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- . 


- — 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PART III — SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 2269 
- ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 

- - 
1 
— 

- - - - - - 
PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING THL 10th AUGUST , 1974 


- - - - - - 

2 
- - - - - - 


— 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


B /72601 


20178 

(1 ) 


Pro - 


P.E . 


" Urban 

tives " 
(Colour) 
(U .S.A .) 


Alterna - 
( English ) 
( 16mm .) 


United Stalos infor- Arthur Barr 
mation Service , ductions, Inc . 
4 -Now Marino Lines 
Bombay - 20 . 


75541 
5 - 8-74 


B /72388 


199 . 33 


U 
75542 


PE 


( 2 ) 


" Seedling And Plant - 

ing Machines " 
( English ) ( 16mm .) 
(Documentary ) 


Films Division , 
Govt. of India , 
24 - Poddar Road , 
Bombay- 26 . 


FilmsDivision , 
Govt. of India , 
24 - Poddar Road , 
Bombay - 26 . 


5 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72537 


298 -00 


75543 


P . E . 


( 1 ) 


" Coppor The Motal 
of 800 Yoar " 
(Cuprul) (English ) 
(Colour) ( 35mm ) 
(Romania ) 


National Education Romania Films . 

& Intermation 
Films Ltd 


5 -8-74 


B /72536 


290 .00 


U 
75544 


Do , 


Do . 


P . E . 


" Cosmic Rays” 

(Raze Cosmico ) 
( English ) ( Colour ) 
( 35mm .) (Romania ) 


5 - 8 - 74 


B /72438 


Do. 


Do . 


305 - 00 

( 1 ) 


75545 


P . E . 


" Catalysors " 

(Catalizatori) 
(English ) ( Colour ) 
(35mm ) (Romania ) 


5 - 8 -74 


B /72431 


75546 With 


“ Kusauti” (Hindi) 

( Colour) ( 35mm ) 


4300 28 

( 16 ) 


trianglo , mark 


Lalit Kala Mandir , Lalit Kala Mandir , 

15 - fair fiold - A Sant 
tacruiz Wost , 
Bombay - 54 , 1 


5 - 8 - 74 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 4335 -25m . 
Cut Reel 
No . No. 
1 . 

Delete the following dialoguo between Bholwala and Sapna : Bhelwala ; 

“ Aur Kitna daal dun ? Sapna : " Thoda sa , mirchi" . . . . 
2. III : Reduce the fight hofween Hira and Amit deleting tho hard hitting blows 

on stomach and fuco . 
(Longth rolained 10 - 15 m .) 


1 22m , 


. 


. 2 · 10m . 


3. 


VI 


: Delete the underlined dialogue and the visuals showing the torn por 

tions of the pillows : 
Ramu : " Takkya je ke so gaya tha , Para pada . . . . . . 

(Replacod with approvod shots : 0 . 34m .) 


2 - 43m , 


4 . XIV 


Reduce the fight between Pyarelal and Seth Hariram & his men in the 
boat, particularly deleting tho grliesome visuals and hard hits on 
stoniach and faco . . . . . . . . . . . 183m . 
(Length retained : 25 .60m . ) 


5 . XVII 


; Reduce the violonce in the last fightby deleting tho hard hittingblows 

on stomach and face and grusome visuals . 
(Loogtlı rotajnod : 44 2001.) 


. 


10 - 36ai. 


IX 


: Delete tho dialogue of a Ticket Checkor in the railway compartmont . 

tho reforenco to tho Railway Minister when a passonger complaints 10 
him that the lights and fans in the compartment are not working . 


17 - 37m . 


Length of deletions ; 35 -31m . 
Length of approvod replacement : 0 -34m . 
Actual length of the fim after the aforesuld alterations will be- - 4300 - 28m . in 16 reels . 


2270 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) (Part 111 — SEC, 4 


- -- - - 


- 


- - - - - 


- - - - 


- - - - - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


= 


= 


5 


6 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


U 


B / 72624 


B /72441 


With 

mark . 


triangle 


" Trailer of Duniya 87 .48 G . M . Roshan , Pear ] G . M . Roshan , Pearl 75547 
Ka Mola " (Hindi) 

Pictures , Air COD) Picturo , Ait CI- - - - 
( Colour) (35mm ) 

ditioned Market, ditioned Maiket . 5 - 8 -74 
Bombay - 34 . Tardeo , Bombay- 34 . 

U 
" Duniya Ka Mola . 3992 . 88 Poarl Pictures . 

Do. 

75548 
(Hindi) (Colour ) (15 ) 1 / 4 Air Condition 

- - - - - 
( 35mm . ) Market, Bombay -34 , 

6 - 8 - 74 
Endorsement: 
Original Longth : 4005 -87m , 
Cut Reel 
No . No . 

Metres 
I : jn thodanco soguonco of Badriprasad dressed as a girl, delere his jndecant 

action of pushing tho shehnui forward and backward in his font . . 224m , 
(Replaced with approved shots : 224m ,) 


1 


2 . 


IV 


3 .05m . 


3 . 
4 . 


yil 


: During the picturisation of the song beginning with tho words " Jad . 

garia moin jangaria " . . . . . . deleje the view of Shyama caressing the 
Statue of a malo in & passionato manner when the camera tilts down 
with her to composo the midriff ol tho Stat110 . 

. 
(Roplacod with ap rovod shots : 30 m .) 

. . . 
: Delete the dialogue “ Khada parsi ko baitha parsikar dunga " 

as said by Badriprasad . . 
; Delete thc underlined words from thc senience " Parede ke 

1 10m 
aage parde ke peechhe , na jaane kahan kahni shus raha hai" as spoken 
by Badripragad . 

(Deleto sound only) (Replaced with approved words) 
i Delete the undorlined word from the sentoncu " Salo no mero Ghan 

shyam kimundi bhi chura li " as spoken by Badriprayad , 

( Deleted sound ) (Replaced with approved words ) 
: During the picturigation of the song beginning with tho words "Kui 

ajnabi sa . . . . . . " delete 
(a ) tho clogo up of Shyama when the camera tills down to expose 
the cleavage of hor bust 

lm . 

. 
( Replaced with Approved shore . n 

. 


5. 


X 


6 . 


XI 


" 


0 .97m . 


the ologo front viow of Shama s midriff whon her skirt goes up . . 
(Replaced with approved slots : 0 . 97m . ) 


7 . XVI 


: Reduce considerably the last fight particularly deleting closc punchos 

on stomach and face and close viows of face with blood . . 11 . 89m . 
(Length retained ; 34 - 45m . ) 
Length of deletions : 19 .66m . 
Langth of approved replacement : 6 .67m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be - - 3992 -88m . in 15 reels . 


U 


B /72652 


" Bhau " (Marathi) 

( 35mm .) 


1017 .42 


75549 


Not P . E . 


Shri K . Vaikunth , Shri K . Vajkunth . 

12 - A Vinod Villa , 
Worli , Bombay - 18 . 


6 - 8 -74 

U 
75550 


B / 72645 


" Hasin Hai Jindagi" 

(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm .) 
(Advertisomont) 


30 48 

(1) 


Mrs. Jyoti G . Thakur 

Film Media . 


Film Media , 

47 -Laxmi ( osuranco 
Building , Sir P . M . 
Road , Bombay - 1. 


6 - 8 -74 


U 


B / 72623 


" Rang Mein Aiye " 

(Hindi) ( Colour) 
(35mm . 
(Advertisemont) 


30 . 48 

(1) 


Ms. Hilm - 5 , Jyoti 

Studios, Kennedy 
Bridgo, Bombay -7. 


M /s, Filni - 5 , Jyoti 75551 

Studios, Kennedy - - 
Bridgo, Bombay -7 , 6 - 8 -74 


B /72607 


30 -48 


" Tho Trustod Health 

Builder" (English ) 
(Colour ) (Advt.) 
( 35mm . ) I 


Ciporad Commupi Mr, Safar Hai, 

cations , National Cinorad 
Houso, Bombay- 1. munications . 


75552 
Com - - 

6 - 8 -74 


U 


B /72586 


" Concort " (English ) 

( Colour) (35mm .) 
(Advortisement) 


30 - 48 

(1 ) 


Sridhar Kshirsagar, Sridhar Kshirsagar, 
103, Olympus , 

103 , Olympus , 
Altamount Road , Altamount Road , 
Bombay - 26 , 

Bombay - 26 . 
Trivedi, 518 ,Collesc Triveni, 518 College 
Road , Matunga , 
Bombay- 19 . 

Bombay - 19 . 


75553 
6 - 8 - 74 
U 
75554 


1 /72627 


30 . 48 


D .Q .C . (English 
(35mm .) 
Advortisoment) 


Road ,Matunga , 


68 -74 


Y .LL 


PART III - - Sec . 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 2271 

- - - - - = -- - - - -- -- - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - 

67 


— 


— 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


B /72626 


30 .48 


75555 


“ Like Friendship 

You Can Trust " 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
( 35mm .) 
(Advortisomont) 


K . S . Raju , 

M / s. SRI 35 , 
Grean St., 
Bombay - 1 . 


K , S . Raju , 

M /S , SRI 35 , 
Groan St . , 
Bombay - 1 . 


6 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72625 


Do . 


Do. 


30 .48 

(1) 


75556 


. 


" Psychic Lady Tolls " 

Your Fortuno " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(Advortisement ) 
(35mm .) 


6 - 8 - 74 


B /72221 


(No 


54 . 00 


75557 


Not P . E . 


“ Junglo - India " 

Commentary ) 
(Music Only ) 
(Documentary) 
(35mm .) 


Films Division , 
Govt. of India , 
24 - Peddar R 
Bonibay - 26 . 


Films Division , 
Govt . of India , 
24 - Peddar 
Bombay - 26 . 


7 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72605 


30 -48 


Cinerad 

cation . 


“ The Now Young 

Outlook " ( English ) 
( Colour) (Advi .) 
(35mm .) 


Communi- Cinerad 

cation . 


Communi- 


75558 


7 - 8 - 74 


B /72405 


U 
75559 


" M . M . M . Rumi" 

( English ) " ( Colour) 
(35mm . ) (Adyt .) 


3048 

(1 ) 


Ronnio Almoida , Ronnio Almoida , 

No . 4 , Stoola Bombay -50 . 
Maris , Annoxo 
Offiturner Road , 
Bombay - 50 . 


7 - 8 - 74 


B /72661 


" Indian News Re. 

viow No. 1347 " 
(Newsrcel) ( 35mm .) 


153 .00 

( 1 ) 


Films Division , 
Govt. of India , 
24 - Peddar Road , 
Bombay - 26 . 


U 
Films Division , 

75560 
Govt. of India , 
24- Poddac Road , 7 - 8 -74 
Bombay - 26 . 


(Valid for Eng 
lish , Hindi, 
Marathi, Guja 
rati, Tamil , 
Telugu , Kan 
nada , Mala 
yalam , A $ & 
meso , Oriya , 
Bengali, ver 
Biods.) 


U 


B /72662 


197 .00 


Do . 


Do . 


75561 


" Indian News Re 

view No . 1347 " 
(Northern Edition ) 
(35mm .) (Newsreel) 


7 - 8 -74 


(Valid for Eng 

lish , Hindi, 
Kashmiri, Pun 
jabi, Urdu ver 
sions. ) 


B / 26735 


137 . 16 


75562 


P . E . 


54 . 


" Budget" (Hindi) 

( 35mm . ) 
(Documentary ) 


MathC 


( 1 ) 


The Dir . General Tho Dir, General 
of Information & of Information & 
Public Relation , Public Relation , 
Govt . of Maha Govt. of Maha 
rashtra , 

rashtra , 


7 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72609 


310 . 00 

(1) 


Advertis - 


75563 


Not P .E . 


“ Traditional 

crafts in 
Living" 
(Colour ) 
( Japan ) 


Handi- 
Modern 
(English ) 
(16mm . ) 


Consulate General M . O . S . 
of Japan , 

ing Inc . 
Bombay - 26 . 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 


B / 72587 


M / s . Parke Davis . 


75564 


355 -48 

( 1 ) 


P . E . 


" The Heritage of 

Operating Room 
D " (English ) (Co 
lour ) ( 16mm .) 
( U . S . A .) 


Parkc Davis (India ) 

Ltd ., Saki Naga , 
Bombay -72 . 


8 - 8 - 74 


B / 72588 


305 . 00 


Parko Davis . 


Do . 


Do. 


U 
75565 


P . E . 


" Mr. Galem Comes 

to Town " (Eng 
lish ) (Colour ) 
(16mm .) (USA ) 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72604 


242 . 00 

(2 ) 


“ Sentinels of Power" 

(English ) (Colour) 
( 16mm .) 


AMA Private Limited , AMA Private Limited , 

Bombay - 1 , 


755566 


Not P . E . 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 


2272 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [Part III - SEC . 4 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


23 


- - - - 


- - - 


- — 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


B / 72558 


271 .00 

( 1 ) 


75567 


Not P .E . 


" The Death Rally " 

(Raliulmortii ) 
(Music only ) 
( Colour) (35mm . ) 
(Romania ). 


National Education Romunia Films. 

Information 
Films Ltd ., 
National House, 
Tulloch Road , 
Boinbay . 


8 - 8 - 74 


B /72624 


" Veer Bhagatsingh " 

(Hindi) ( 16min .) 


362 .09 


U 
75568 


DO . 


P . E . 


( 3 ) 


National Eclucation 

& Information & 
Filin Ltd . 


- 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 
75569 


B / 72539 


Do . 


162 .00 

( 1) 


Romania Films, 


Not P . E . 


“ The Punished Torm 

Cat" (Motanul 
Pede Psit ) (Music 
only) (Colour) 
(35mm . ) (Romania . ) 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72546 


Do . 


Do . 


75570 


P . E . 


262 .00 

( 1 ) 


" Thank you Mihacla " 

(Multumec Mihacla ) 
(Music only ) ( Co 
lour) ( 35mm . ) 
(Romania ) . 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72545 


Do . 


Do . 


75571 


P . E . 


" Mihaela " (Music 

only (Colour) 
(35mm .) (Romania ) 


228 . 00 

( 1) 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 
75572 


B /72544 


287 .00 


Do . 


Do . 


Not P . E . 


w 


(1 ) 


“ Tom Cat In The 

Casmos" (Motunul 
in Cosmos ) (Music 
only) ( Colour ) 
(35mm .) (Romania ) 


8 - 8 -74 


B /72540 


U 
75573 


Do . 


200 . 00 

( 1 ) 


Do. 


Not P . E . 


" Thich of The Cir - 

cus " (Hoatadela 
Cire ) (Music only ) 
(Colour) (35min . ) 
(Romania ) 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 


B / 72509 


Do , 


Do . 


564 . 00 

( 1) 


75574 


P . E . 


" Naica And The 

Stork " (Naic şi 
barza ) (Music only ) 
(Colour) (35mm . ) 
(Romania ) 


8 - 8 -74 


B / 72552 


P .E . 


B / 72516 


Do . 


P . E . 


B /72658 


With 
mark . 


triangle 


" The Diamond " 

271 . 00 Do . 

Do . 

75575 
(Dianiantul) (Music 
only ) ( Colour) 

8 - 8 - 74 
( 35mm .) (Romania ) 

U 
" Convergency " 

306 . 00 Do , 

75576 
( Convergente ) 
( English ) (Colour) 

8 - 8 - 74 
(35mm . ) (Romania ) 

U 
" 5 Ritics " (Hindi) 3911 :37 Delux Productions, Delux Productions 75577 
(Colour) ( 35mm . ) (15) ( India ) 5 - J Near ( India ) 5 - J Naaz - -- - 

Naaz Blug , 

Building Bombay -4 . 9 -8 - 74 

Bombay - 4 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3925 -78m . 
Cut Reel 
No . No. 
1 . II ; Delete the paintings of women in indecent poses when the Sanyasi 
(Mana in disguise ) sings a song in praise of women , . . . 

.. 

5 - 29m . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 5 . 29m . ) 
2. IV : Delete the kiss between Rajkumari and Rakesh . 

. 1 . 98m . 
3 . IV : Reduce the beating up of the Rajkumari by Khottu . . . . . 0 .91m . 

(Length relained : 0 .91m .) 


2273 


PART III- - Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 

-- - - 
- - - - - - -- - - -- 

-- - - 
3 

4 

5 

6 


- - 


- - - - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


7 


- -- - 


- 


- - - 


117 


TA 


4 . VIJI : Delete tho following dialogue of Katari along with her indecent ges 
ture . " Vishwas na ho to dlactari karya lo " . 

* 2 - 33m . 
5. X : Delete the shot of bare breasted girls standing around a swlmıning pool 4 . 18 
6 . XI : From the mujra sequence of Mama disguised as a dancing girl , 

delete ; 
(1) the vicw of police officer shaving the leg of the dancer : 

5 . 29m . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 5 . 29m . ) 
( ii) the view of dancer sitting astride the police officer and the officer 
enjoying it, and 

" 3 -3711 . 
(Replacod with approved shots : 3 :37m .) 
(INT ) the view of the dancer (Mami in disguise ) bcing stripped by the 

polico Officer , and the dialoguo " jobun to sara anpko hrath mo rah 
gaya hai" . Ah kya hulchulmachhegi” . 

. . , 4 . 98m 
(Roplaced with approved shots : 1 . 80n1.) 
XI : In the bath tub scenç, delete the expression of pleasure on the face of 

Khottu s wife when Mama is under her in the tub , and delete the words 

" mcra pet phi kharab hai" with reference to the bubbles in the water. 1 .83m . 
8 . XIL : Delete the referonces to pisal in the dialogue of Mama, 

( Deleted sound only ) . 
Length of deletions : 30 .16m . 
Length of approved replacement : 15 . 75m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will he 3911 -37n , in 15 reels . 

INDORSEML’NT UNDER RULE 34 
B / 72656 
Film : " A Wedding At The Oberoi Sheraton " ( English ) 
U - Cortiſlcate No. 75498 of 29 -7 - 1974 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour, 
The length of tho film remains unchanged , 

This certificato was endorscd on 5th August, 1974 . 
B /68767 
Film : A Climate Of Health " (English ) 
U - Certificate No. 72314 of 7-4 - 1973 . 

Reel I & II : Deleted various shots : 81 -63m . 
Acrual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 357 . 28m . 

This certificato was endorsed on 5th August , 1974 . 
B /72358 -60 
Film : " Chidiyagarh Ki Sair” ( I- indi) 
U - Ceit . No. 75151 of 12-6 - 1974 

Deleted various shots : 3 . 76m . 
Adiled various shots : 3 . 76m . 
The length of the film remains unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 7th August, 1974 . 


C /8071 


P . E . 


Bharat Bonam Aus- 546 81 

tralia – Davis Cup ( 2 ) 
Zonal Final- 1974 
( Bengali) ( 35mm .) India 


Aparajita Films, Calcutta 
102 , S , P . Mukher 
Jee Rd ., Cal- 26 . 


U 
Dept. of Informa - 73472 
tion & Public - - - 
Relations, 

6 - 8 - 74 
Govt. of W . Bengal. 


U 


C /80611 


308 .00 ( 1) 


P . E . 


Beginning Of Lifo 

( English ) ( Colour ) 
( 16mm . ) Japan . 


Organon (1) Ltd ., Cinc Science Co .,Ltd ., 
38 , Chowringhee Rul, JAPAN 

Calcutta - 1. 


73473 
6-8-74 


6 - 8 -74 


U 


C /8069 


670 .56 


73474 


Sana Leibak Mani- 

pur (Documentary ) 
(Manupuri) (Colour) 
(35min. ) India , 


A . Syain Sharma, 
Manipur . 


Publicity Dept., 

Govt. of Manipur. 


( 3 ) 


7 - 8 - 74 


U 


M /8817 


398342 

( 16 ) 


Idayam Parkirathu 

( Tamil) ( 35mm ) 
B & W . India . 


Udaya Arts , 

Midras. 


67667 


With cuts . 


Udya Arts, 

Madras . 


7 - 8 - 74 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- G 


- 


- 


-- - 


2274 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) (PART III — SEC. 4 
= = = = 

56 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 67667-U dated 7th August 1974 – - Isgued to the film 
Idayam Parkirathu ( Tamil) . 
Length applied . 4075 .01 Mts . 

Cuts 
1. Reel 2 - - Delete Paramasivam s reference to Black & Red colour wherever It 
occurs in tho dlaloglio with tho second -hand car dсalers . , . . 

4 . 25 
2 . Reel 3 - --Delete shot of night- club dancer s pelvis jerks, holding snako in hand 
Overhead , 

3 . 34 
3 . Reel ( Delete the action ofNihesh unhooking Geeta has blousc in bullock cart . . 0 . 91 
4. Reel 8 - Delete Bahadur s action of closing the drawer on Stella s fingors, stamp 

ing her , pushing her down the stairs , strangling and drowning her. . 36 .87 
5. Reel 11 — Delete action of Bahadur s crushing Mahesh with his leg on his neck . . 8 . 83 
6 . Reel 12 - Delete word of Paramasivam “ Arasiyalvadi" referring to the rowdics . 

3 . 95 
7 . Reel 14 -- Delete top -angle shot of Leela and Mahesh , her breast prominent in bed , 5 . 47 
8 . Reel 14 - Delele action of Mahesh caressing Lcela s bare back with his mouth . . 3 . 34 
9. Reel 14 - Delete shot of Lecla lying over his lup with parted legs, , 

12 - 15 
10 . Reel 14 - Delete shot of Mahesh throught Leela s legs , astride in foreground . . 3 . 34 
11 . Reel 15 - - Reduce torture of Mahesh to a suggestion , (Rotained 304 ) . 

9 .14 


Total 


91 -59 


Actual length of the film will be - - 3983 .42 Mts. in 16 Reels . 


U 


M /8802 & 03 


Sunflowor 

( English 
(Colour ) 
India . 


30 .48(1) 
& Hindi) 

(35mm . ) 


Ogilvy Benson & 
Mather (P ) Ltd . , 
Madras . 


Ogilvy Benson & 

Muther ( P ) Ltd . , 
Madras . 


67668 
7 - 8 -74 


А 


M /8816 


3304 


Vilukapatta. Kuni 

(Malayalam ) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 
India . 


3866 -38 

(16 ) 


Shrikant & Shrikant Shrikant & Shrikant 
Films ( P ) Ltd ., 

Films ( P ) Ltd . , 
Madras . 

Madras . 


7 - 8 - 74 


U 


M /8830 Silver Jubileo of 548 - 64 Vikram Productions, Vikram Productions, 67669 
Vikram Productions 

Madras . 

Madras , 
(Kannada ) (Partly 

8 - 8 - 74 
colour ) (35mm .) 

India . 
PARTICULARS OF THE FILMS CERTIFIĘD OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM 
CENSORS DURING THE WEEK ENDING 17 TH AUGUST , 1974 
BOMBAY 

U 
B /72455 " Resham Ki Dori " 3981 . 91 Modern Pictures , T . C . Dewan , 

75578 With triangle 
(Hindi) (Colour) ( 16 ) 238 Famous Cino 238 -Famous Cino - 

mark , 
( 35ınm ) 

Bldg . , Mahalaxmi, Bldg., Mahalaxmi, 12 -8 - 74 
Bombay - 11 . 

Bombay - 11 . 


Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 3900 - 80 m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1. III : Reduce the fight in jail and the shot of wardon s head being pushed into 
the oven by Sher Singh . . 
. . . . . 

. 
(Length retained : 10 . 37m . ) 


2 . 74m , 


: Delele hard hitting shots on tho stomach and chin in the scene of horo 
beating the Manager s hireling . 

( Deleted Sound only ) 
: Reduce the fight between Vinod and Ajit Singh . . . . . 

(Length rotained : 13 . 90m .) 


3 . 


XII 


3 . 33m . 


4 . 


XV 


: Reduce the fight between the horo and Dinesh and his goondas by delet 
ing hard hitting shots , 

. . . . . . . 12 . 80m . 
(Length retained ; 48 .46m . ) 
Length of deletions : 18 . 89m . 


Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be - - 3981 .91m . In 16 Reels . 


U 


B /72644 


75579 


“ Sokhn ! Ek Pan 

Ghadi Gomausho 
Nahi" (Gujarati ) 
(35mm .) (Advt. ) 


30 .48 

(1 ) 


Jyoti G . Thakur. 


Film Media , 

Bombay. 


12- 8 - 74 


PART III - SEC . 4 ] THEGAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) 

- - - 


2275 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - -- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 

- - 
- - 

- 


1 
- - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


2 


no 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


— 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


B / 72641 


Do . 


U 
75580 


30 :48 

( 1) 


Do . 


" Jeevan Sukhhmay 

Bani Shakc Che " 
(Gujarati ) (35mm .) 
(Advt.) 


12 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72638 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


" Khushiyan Hi 

Khushiyan " (Hindi) 
( 35mm . ) (Adyt.) 


30 - 48 

(1 ) 


75581 


12 - 8 - 74 


U 


B / 72567 


106 . 68 

( 1 ) 


" Trailer of Jai Shri 

Ram Yane Hanu 
man Vijay " 
(Gujarati) (35mm . ) 
( Colour) 


Bysant Pictures , 

136 -Chamarbaug 
Road , Bombay - 12 . 


Basant Pictures , 

136 - Chamarbaug 
Road , Bombay - 12 . 


75582 

- - - 
13 - 8 - 74 


U 
75583 


B /72881 


" Trailer of Trimurti " 

(Hindi) ( Colour ) 
( 35mm .) 


91 .94 
(1) 


M / S , Kiron Produc - Shri Rajender Bhatia , 

tions, 217 - Famous Bombay - 11 . 
Cine Bldg ., 
Bombay - 11 , 


13- 8 - 74 


B /71900 


U 
75584 

- - - - 
13 - 8 - 74 


with 

mark . 


triangle 


" Pain Relief " 30 . 48 Bhim Sain , 

Bhim Sain , 
(Marathi) ( Colour) ( 1 ) 

Climb Films, 

Bombay- 34 . 
(35mm .) (Advt.) 

22 -Ann Chambers , 

Tardeo , Bombay - 34 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 30 .48m . 

Delete the word " Kevals from the sentence " ya kherlj keval Soridon , hoya keval sori 
don madhhech yodana nahishya karanyachi Shakti aaho " 
( Deleted sound only ) 
The length of the film remains unchanged . 


B / 71899 


triangle 


" Saridon Vis Pain " 

(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm .) (Advt.) 


30 -48 

( 1) 


Bhim Sain , 

Climb Films, 
22 -Arun Chambers , 
Tardeo , Bombay - 34 , 


Bhim Sain , 

Climb Films, 
Bombay - 34 . 


U 
75585 

- 
13 - 8 - 74 


with 

mark . 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 30 48m . 

Deleted the word " Sirf ” from the sentenco " sirf saridon — Sirf Saridon mon hi dard 
dur karneki shakti hai" 
(Deleted sound only ) 
Length of the film remains unchanged . 


B /71898 


trianglo 


" The Great Relicver 

( English ) (Colour) 
(35mm .) (Advt .) 


30 .48 

( 1 ) 


Bhim Sain , 

Climb Films, 
22 - Arun Chambers , 
Tardco , Bombay - 34 . 


With 

mark . 


U 
75586 

- 
13 - 8 - 74 


Bhim Sain , 

Climb Films, 
22 - Arun Chambers , 
Tardeo , Bombay - 34 . 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 30 . 48m . 

Delete the word only from the sontence " Moreover only Saridon , I repeat only 
Saridon has the power to rcliovo pain 
( Deleted sound only ) 


U 
75587 


B /72636 


30 .48 

( 1 ) 


" Har Pul Khushi 

Ka Pul" (Hindi) 
( 35mm . ) 
(Advertisement) 


Film Media , 
47-Laxmi Insurance 
Bldg ., Bombay - 1 . 


Mr. Jyoti G . Thakur. 

Film Media . 


13 -8 - 74 


U 
75588 


B /72642 


30 : 48 


Do. 


Do . 


" Jeeynath Anand 

Asu Shaktho " 
(Marathi) 
(Advertisement) 
( 35mm . ) 


13 - 8 - 74 


U 
75589 


B /72643 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


" Dhoke Dhukheuar 

Avhak ” (Marathi) 
( 35mm .) (Advt .) 


30 .48 

( 1 ) 


13-8-74 


13 - 8 - 74 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


18 - 369G1/ 75 


2276 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [ PART III -- SEC . 4 

= = = = = . = = = - = - = = - = . Z 


- 


- 


S 


- - 


- 


- 


. 

- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- - . . 1 


- 


- 


B / 72640 


30 -48 


U 
75590 


" Anandajc Shun 

Vaya Galvu Naku " 
(Marathi) (35mm ) 
( Advt. ) 


13 - 8 - 74 


B /72637 


" Suhane Pul" (Hindi) 

( 35mm . ) (Advt.) 


30 .48 

( 1 ) 


U 
75591 


13 - 8 - 74 


B / 72639 


30 .48 


Do. 


U 
75592 


U 


" Mathana Dukhawano 

Ekmatra Ilaz " 
(Gujarati) ( 35mm .) 
(Advt.) 


13 - 8 - 74 


U 


B / 72648 


587 - 00 


Sovexportfilm . 


Soyuzmulfilm 

Production , 


( 2 ) 


" The Bremen 
Musician Again " 
( English ) (Sov 
colour) (35mm . ) 
(USSR ) 


75593 

- Not P . E . 
14 - 8 - 74 


B / 72690 


" His Name Is Today" 

(English ) (35mni. ) 
(Documentary ) 


473 . 00 

( 2 ) 


Tho Director General 

of Information 
& Public Rolation 
Govt , of Maha 
Tashtra . 


The Diroctor General 

of Information - 
& Public Relation 
Govt . of Maha 
rashtra . 


U 
75594 

- - P . E . 
14 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72684 


263 . 00 


75595 


( 1 ) 


" Indian News Re 

view No, 1348 " 
(Eastern Edition ) 
(35mm .) (Newsroel ) 


Films Division 
Govt. of India 
24 - Peddar Road 
Bombay - 26 . 


Filins Division 
Govt . of India 
24 -Peddar Road 
Bombay - 26 . 


14 - 8 - 74 


(Vulld for 

lish , 
Bengali, 
mese , & 
versions ) 


Eng 
Hindi, 
Asya 
Urdu 


B /72683 


216 . 00 


Do. 


Do . 


U 
75596 


" Indian News Re- 

view No. 1348 " 
(35mm . ) (Newsreel) 


14 - 8 - 74 


(Valid for Eng 

lish , Hindi, 
Gujarati , Tamil, 
Telugu, Kan 
nada, Mala 
yalam , Punjabi, 
Kashmiri, Ur 
du & Sindhi 
versions.) 


B /72608 


“ Ujala Hi Ujala " 

(Hindi) (Colour ) 
( 35mm .) 


3701 - 81 

(15 ) 


S . M . Sagar 

Usmanabag Bldg . 
9 - Almaida Road 
Bandra Bombay -50 . 


S . M . Sagar 

Adhikar Inter 
national 


75597 

- With 
14 - 8 - 74 mark . 


triangle 


Endorsement : 
Original Lenght : 3731.00 m . 
Cut Reel 

Mts . 
No. No . 
1. VIII : Delete the view of kiys between saraswati and Rupa in the garden at 
the end of the song . 

, 5 . 171 . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 0 - 56m .) 
2. IX : Reduce the fight between Vikram and the goondas particularly deleting 
the hard punchos on face and stomach . . . . . 

7 .62m . 
(I _ ength retained : 40 : 58ni. ) 
3 . X : During the picturisation of the song " Main ne to yeh jaana . . . . . ... " 

delete one shot completely and in the other shot reduce to once of 
rubbing of nose between Anuradha and Vikram . . . . . 1 58m . 
(Replaced with Approved shots : 1 - 58m .) 


4 . 


XV 


: Reduce the light betwcen the two parties lod by Vikram and Ajit par 

ticularly deleting all hard punches on stomach and face and also other 
grliesomo visuals , Reduce the hitting of Geeta in tho running car. . 
(Lengtlı retained : 92 . 58m .) 


16 . 96ın . 


Length of deletlons ; 31 - 33m . 
Length of approved replacement : 2 . 14m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3701 -81m . 
in 15 reels. 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


PART III — Sec . 4 ] 


"THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 2277 

= = = = = - - - - 

- - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- _ - - _ - - - 


- 


- 


= 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


3 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


U 


. 


B / 72695 


75598 


" Indian Nowy Rc- 

view No. 1349 - A " 
(English & Hindi) 
(35mm . ) 


200 . 55m 

( 1) 


Hilms Division 
Govt. of India 
24 - Peddar Koud 
Bombay - 26 . 


Films Division 
Govt. of India 
24- Pcddar Road 
Bombay - 26 . 


14 - 8 -75 


B /66361 


U 
75599 


" Chhote Sarkaar " 

( Hindi) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) 


3818 . 10 

( 14 ) 


trianglo 


Pinky Films 

Famous Cinc Bldg . 
Bombay - 11. 


Biny Talwar 

Pinky Films, 
Bombay -11. 


with 

mark . 


14 - 8 - 74 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3829 . 98m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1. VI : Delete reloronco to tha word " Achhut" . . . . . . . 6 .10m . 
2. VII : From the rape scene delete the view of Radhika seen atop Moti and their 
refloction in the mirror abovo . 

. . . . . . . 4 . 26m . 
X : Towards the end of the song " Tere chehorepar . . . . .. " delete the view of 

Rutja in close physical proximity with Radhika with the suggestion of 
kiss in the back view , 

. . . . . . . 
Length of deletions : 11 . 881 

. 1 . 52m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3818 .10m . 
In 14 reels . 


B / 71630 


B / 72094 


With 
Mark 


trianglo 


- Youth Parliament 356 .00 Films Division , 

Filns Division , 

75600 
(English ) ( 35ınm . ) (2 ) Govt . of Indid , 

Govt . of India , 
(Dcumentary ) 

24 - Peddar Road , 24 -Peddar Road , 14 -8 - 74 
Bombay- 26 . Bombay -26 . 

U 
" Aashian ” (Hindi) 3240 -32 D . Komal, M / s Dov D . Komal, M / s. Day 75801 
( Colour) (35mm .) (12 ) Kula Internation - Kala Intornutional. - 
Dal. Victoria Bldg., 

14 - 8 - 74 
Bombay . . 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3253 - 32m . 
Cut Reel 
No . No. 
1 . IV i Delete the lettronco to min drinking in bir baing an M . P . 

( Deleted sound only ) 
2 . V : Reduce tlie fight belween Sunil and the gang by deleting hard hitting 
shots . 

• • • • • . . 300m. 
( Length retained : 28 96m.) • 
3 . VII : In the fight between Sunil and Ramesh and again between Sunil and 

Abdulla deleting the hard hitting shots. . . . . . . 4 . 50m . 
4 . XI : Delete the shot of Sunil indecorously dancing over Sonia when she is 
lying between his legs. 

4 471 . 
5 . XI : In the scono when Sunil and Sonia are trying to dry their clothes after 

bọing drenched in water delete indocorous shots . . . . 5 . 50m . 
Length of deletions : 17 .27m . 
Length of approved replacement : 4 . 27m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3240 -32m 
in 12 reels. 


B / 72692 


330 .71 


“ Tawa " (Hindi) 

(35mm .) 
(Documentary ) 


( 1 ) 


P .E . 


S , G . Khirwadkar, R . S . Dikshit , 75802 

Asstt . Director Director Publicity -- - - 
Int. & Public & Information , 

14 - 8 - 75 
Department 

Madhya Pradosh . 
Madhya Pradesh , 
Govt. of M , P ., 
Bhopal, 


U 


B /72693 


186 . 00 
(2 ) 


75803 


" Samruddinu Sopan " 

(Gujarati) (Colour ) 
( 16mm .) (Docu 
mentary ) 


National Institute National Institute 
of Design 

of Dosign Paldi. 
Ahmedabad . 

Ahmedabad . 


14 - 8 - 74 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


2278 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III — Sec . 4 
= - - -- - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ** 


- - - 


5 


1 


B / 72691 


88 .15 

( 1) 


Adhikar International 


U 
75804 


" Traller of “ Ujula 

HiUjala " (Hindi) 
( Colour) (35mm .) 


S . M . Sagar, 
Usmanabad 
Bombay. 


Bldg., 


14 - 8 -74 


B / 72686 


" Beloved 


- Belophane 


Inyadors 


533 - 40 

( 2 ) 


Jasmine Films, 

Bombay . 


George M . Reid . 8 


Vencrsion 
) 


U 
75805 


14 - 8 - 74 


( Shorter Version ) 
( English ) (35ınm .) 
( Cinemascopo ) 


B /72646 


83 -00 


U 
75806 


Mogilm Studio , 


“ Trailor of EK Thi 

Rajkumari " 
(Hindi) (35mm .) 
( Sovcolour) (USSR ) 


Sovexportfilm , 

Bombay - 5 . 


16 - 8 -74 


B /72651 


Do . 


269 .00 

( 1 ) 


Do. 


" Alaid - Tho Fiery 

Crater ( Alaid 
Ogenyikrater ) 
( English ) (Soyo 
colour ) (35mm .) 
(USSR ) 


U 
Central Popular 

75807 
Scienco Fllo Studio . -- 

16 - 8 - 74 


B /72613 - A 


83 . 00 


Mosfilm Studio . 


U 
75808 


" Trailer of Ek Je 

Chhil Rajkumari" 
( Bongali) (Sov 
colour) (35mm .) 
(USSR .) 


16 - 8 -74 


B /72650 


Do. 


( 2 ) 


Kier Popular , 75809 
Scienco FUm Studio . - - 

16 - 8 - 74 


- 


P . E . 


" A Masquerade Of 525 .00 

Hoxaponds 
(Magkared 
( Shostinogikh ) 
(English ) 
colour ) (35mm .) 
(USSR . ) 


V 


B / 72649 


Do . 


" Perseus " . ( Persy) 

(English ) (Sov- 
colour) (35mm . ) 


559 .00 

( 2) 


75810 


SoyuzultAlim 

Production , 


16 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72647 


541 - 00 


Do . 


Do. 


Klov Popular Science 

Film Studło . 


75811 


16 - 8 - 74 


" Looking For De- 

cision " (Shto 
Takoo ? Shto 
Delaet ? Ishy 
Roshnie ) (English ) 
(Sovcolour) (35mm .) 


B /72613 


U 
75812 


3886 -00 

( 15 ) 


Sovexportfilm , 

Bombay- s . 


Mosfilin Studio . 


" Ek Jo Chhil Ruj. 
kumari" ( 35mm .) 
( Bengali) (Sov 
colour) (USSR .) 


16 - 8 -74 


B /72612 


315 - 77 

( 1 ) 


" Down To Earth — 

Part IV " (The 
Fourth Revolution ) 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) (Docu 
meatary) 


U 
Rammohan Blo - Rammohan Bio - 75813 

graphic , Sir Bhal graphics, Sir Bhal- — - 
chandra Rd . Dadar, chandra Road, 16 -8 - 74 
Bombay - 14 . 

Dadar, Bombay - 14 , 


P . E . 


B / 72569 


300 . 00 


" Forover Free (Eng - 

lish ) (16nm .) 
(USA ) 


( 1 ) 


P . E . 


U 
Under Secretary , Mr. Jormings Hom - 78814 
Ministry of Ship - mor Jam Handy — . . . 
ping and Transport Organisation . 

16 - 8 - 74 
I. W . T . Direc 
torato , Now Delhi. 


B /72342 


" The Extru Rich " 

(Shampoo ) (Eng - 
lish ) (Colour ) 
(Advi.) (35mm .) 


30 .48 

(1 ) 


Unit 3 MM , Kala Unit 3 MM , Kala 75815 

Bhavan Mathew Bhuvan Mathow - 
Road , Bombay-4 . Road , Bombay - 

4 1 6 - 8 -74 


PART III — Sec . 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 2279 

- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


. . .- - 


5 


6 


7 


VELIN 


B /72666 


U 
75816 


United States Infor- Paul Falkenbery & 
mation Service . 

Hans Namuth . 


309 -37 

( 1) 


" Louis I. Khan : 

Architocts " (Eng 
lish ) ( Colour ) 
( 16mm .) (USA ) 


P . E . 


16 - 8 -74 


B / 72670 


" Momphis " (English ) 

(Colour ) ( 16mm .) 
(USA .) 


159 - 41 

( 1) 


United States Infor- Memphis Chamber 
mation Service . 

of Cominerce . 


U 
75817 

- 
16 - 8 - 74 


Not P . E . 


B / 72677 


130 -48 


" Mumbajni Sahegah 

(Gujarati) (Colour ) 
(35mm . ) (Advt.) 


Film Media , 
47 - Laxini Insuranco 
Bldg. , Sir P . M . 
Road, Bombay - 1 . 


U 
Film Media , 

75818 
47 -Laxmi Insurance - - 
Bldg ., Sir P . M . 16 - 8 -74 
Road , Bombay -1 . 


U 


B /72675 


30 -48 

( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


Bombaj Ki Bahon 
men " (Hindi) (Co. 
lour ) (35mm . ) 
(Advt .) 


DO. 


75819 


16 - 8 - 74 


B /72678 


Do , 


Do. 


30 -48 

(1 ) 


Do. 


75820 


" Happy Holiday in 

Bombay " (Eng - 
lish ) (Colour ) 
( 35mm . ) ( Advt. ) 


16 - 8 - 74 


B / 72676 


Do . 


Do , 


30 .48 

( 1 ) 


“ Mimbaichi Sohala " 

(Marathi) (Colour) 
( 35mm .) (Advt.) 


75821 


16 - 8 - 74 


B /72319 


544 .63 


" Apa hut " (Hindi) 

(35mm ) 


Shri Girish Karnard , Film & Tolovision 

Director Film & Instituto of India , 
Television Insti 
tute of ( odia , Poona . 


U 
75822 

- Not P . E . 
16 - 8 - 74 


B /72663 


" Alitalia " (English 

(Colour ) (35min .) 


30 - 48 

( 1 ) 


M / s. Alitalia , 


U 
75823 


16 - 8 - 74 


Ms. Alitala , 

Industrial Asgu . 
ranco Bldg., 
Ground Floor, 
Opp . Charchgate 
Station , Bombay -1 . 


B / 72594 


" Lahınina " 


(English ) 


U 
75824 


30 -48 


Keith Allams, 

M / s . Kappa , 
3 - Carl - In Apart- 
ments Water Field 
Road , Ext. 
Bombay- 50 . 


Keith Allams, 
(M /s. Kappa ). 
Bombay - 50 . 


16 -8 -74 


U 


B /72669 


United States In - Walt Disney Films. 

formation Service . 


75825 


" The Magic of Walt 
Disney World " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(16mm .) (USA ) 


323 .09 

(1 


wat de 


Fire 


P . E . 


16 - 8 - 74 


B / 72562 


266 . 00 

( 1 ) 


Romania Films. 


U 
75826 


" Pesters " (No dia - 

logue , No . Com - 
mentary (Colour ) 
(35mm .) (Romania ) 


P . E . 


National Education 

& Information 
Filmns Ltd ., 
Tulloch Road , 
Bombay. 


Romania Film 


17- 8 - 74 


U 


B /72548 


284 . 00 


Do . 


75827 


P . E . 


" Flori Ponutru 
Mihaela " (No 
Commentary & 
dialogue) _ (Colour) 
( 35mm . ) (Romania ) . 


National Education 

& Information 
Films Ltd , 
Tulloch Road , 
Bombay. 


17 - 8 - 74 


B /72547 


278 . 00 

( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


" Priotera Naastra 
Mihaela " 
(No Dialogue or 
Commentary ) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 
(Romania ) 


75828 

- - 
17 - 8 - 74 


P . E . 


2280 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) (PART III — SEC. 4 


= 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


- 
- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


: 


- 


- 


: - - 6 - 7 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


B /72564 


268 . 00 

( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


" Fala din Far West " 

(No dialoguo or 
Cominentary ) (Co 
lour ) ( 35mm . ) 
(Romania ). 


75829 

- P . E . 
17 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72553 


Do . 


250 . 00 

(1 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


75830 

- 
17 - 8 - 74 


Not P . E . 


**Jupiter Has to bo 

Saved " (Nupiter 
Trebuie Salvat ) 
(Music only ) 
(Colour ) (35mm .) 
(Romania ) 


B /72561 


265 .00 


Romania Films, 


" Far West " (Music 

Only ) (Colour) 
(35mm .) (Romania ) 


National Education 

& Information 
Films Ltd ., 
Tulloch Road , 
Bombay . 


75831 

S 
17 - 8 - 74 


Not P . E . 


B / 72566 


Do . 


340 - 00 

(1) 


" Sherill s Sunday " 

(Duminica Seri 
fului) (Music only ) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 
(Romania ) 


75832 

- 
17 - 8 - 74 


Not P . E . 


U 


B /72551 


" Penele Nogre ” (No 

dialoguo or Com 
montary (Colour) 
(35ınm .) (Romania ) 


222 -00 

( 1 ) 


75833 

- 
17 - 8 - 74 


Not P . E . 


B /72549 


" Adventure " (No 

dialogue or Com - 
mentary ) (Colour) 
(35min . ) (Romania ) 


265 .00 

(1) 


U 
75834 

- 
17 -8 -74 


Not P . E . 


B /72550 


250 .00 

( 1 ) 


U 
75835 


" Intilnirea " (No 

dialoguo or Com 
mentary ( Colour ) 
(35mm .) ( Romania ) . 


Not P . E . 


17 - 8 - 74 


U 


B / 72214 


Do , 


610 - 08 

(2) 


Do . 


" Man The Polluter " 

(English ) (Colour) 
(16mm . ) ( Canada) 


National Film Board 

of Canada , 


75836 


- P . E . 


17 - 8 - 74 


B /69591 


Cine Guild , 

11 - Jain Chambers , 
Bombay -50 . 


U 
R . H . Jain & Johny 3233 

Baxi, Jain Cham - -- - - With 
bers , Bombay - 50 , 13 - 8 - 74 mark . 


triangle 


" Manzilein Aur Bhi 3092 - 19 
Hain " (Hindi) 

( 12 ) 
(Colour ) ( 35mm . ) 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3138 . 15m . 
Cut Reel 


Merres 


No. No . 


• Tho violence in the film needs toning down , but not the viciousness of 

the two characters who are on the track of Uday and Gulshan : 


II 


VII 


X 


(1) The scenes whorc Uday is being tortured by his accomplices to 

know the whoreabouts of the loot he has hidden and is being 
kicked repeatedly should bo reduced to miniinum , a few frams 
should be retained for the logic of tho story . , 

5 . 790 . 
(Length retained : 1 . 22m . ) 
( ) The scene depicting the face of doad body of Uday s mother in his 
dream should be deleted . 

. . . . . . . 4 . 571. 
: (III) The scenç depicting the face of dead bodies after shooting by 
Uday at stone quarry should be deleted . 

. 305m . 
: (iv ) The scone depicting Shanti s torture where she is desporately 

thiraty and drinking dụst in her hands should be reduced to the 
minimum and only a few frames should be retained for con 
nccting the story . 

. . . . 3 - 06ni. 
(Length retained : 3 .01m .) 
; (v) The sound effect should be toned down throughout the film 

wherever nock violence has been depicted . . . . . 1 . 22m . 


XI 


vil 


Part III -- SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2281 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- -- - - - - - - - -- - - 


- - 


S 


- 


-- - - - - 

- - 
1 


- - - 
- - - - - 


- - - - -- 
- - - - -- - 
2 


- - 
- - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


— 


- 


- 


- - 


3 


- 


- 


- 


- 


IV 


5 . 50m . 


3. 


V 


4 . 59 m . 


4 . 


LX 


16 05m . 


: The scene where Uday s blind old mother tortured and terrorised by a 

burning paper for a long time to get her confession regarding Uday s 
whçrçabouts should be toned down . 

. . 
(Length retained : 11 .27ın . ) 
: The scene depicting torturing a cagid patrct with a turning match 
stick should be reduced 

. . , , 
(Length retained : 1 : 52 ) 
: Tlio love scene particularly the repetition of those scenes by way of 

flashbacks of the girl, should be out to the minimum required for the 
logic of the story . 
(Length retainei : 3 .89m . ) 
Curse words i, e . Sala , Suli, Kainine, Harami, Badzat, Haramzadi, and 
Chayani-Chhar , should be reduced to the minimum . 

( Deleted sound only ) . 
: The shot of the heroine s under clothcsc on the clothes - - line needs 
excisions : . . 

. . . . . . . 
( Length of deletions : 45 . 96m . ) 
Actual length of the film after the oforesald deletions will be ; 
3092 . 19m in 12 reels . 


6 . 


III 


2 . 13m . 


B / 72655 


3234 


. 


Patthar Aur Payal" 
(Hindi) ( Colour ) 
( 35mm . ) 


3953 25 
( 16 ) 


K . P . Singh & 
N P . Singh . 


K . P . S . Films, 
Air Conditioned 
Market , Tardeo , 
Bombay - 34 . 


With triangle mark . 


13 -8 -74 


0 -39m . 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 4009 - 45m . 
Cut Reel 
No . No. 
1. VI ; ( 1) Reduce considerably the fight between Sarju and Ranjit by 
deleting hard hits on stomach and faco . , , 

, 

94m . 
(Length retained ; 16 . 26m . ) 
(ii) Reduce pressing of Sarju s neck by Ranjit under his foot. . . 1 . 19m . 

(Length retained : 2 .44m .) 
( iii ) Reduce the whipping of Ranjit in the decoit s den . . . 11 . 98m . 

(Length retained : 16 .46m . ) 
2 . VII : Reduce considerably the violence in the fight betwoen Ranjit and Sarju , 

by deleting gruesome visuals . 

(Length retained : 6 . 71in .) 
3. XII : (1) From the cabaret item , reiluce to minimum the front view of the 

dancer with back light and delete the low angle shot of the dancer 
in an indecent postnre when she turns her back to the camera . 2 . 83m . 
( Deleted completely ) 

(Rcplaccl with approved shots : 2 .83m .) 
( 11) Reduce the fight between Ranjit and Shekhar and his men . . 3 .48m , 

(Length retained : 41 . 15m . ) 
4 . XIV : Reduce the shot of Munshi with dagger struck on his chest . . 0 .74m . 

(Length retined : 561 . ) 
5. XV : (1) Reduce the violence in the fight betwoen Sarju ænd Ranjit . . 70lm . 

(Length retained : 1920in . ) 
( II ) Recluce considerably the torture of Ranjit by Vijay Narain 

Singh s men on horses, particularly the whippings, tramplings 
and dragging , 

. . . . . . 
( Length retained : 18 . 901 ) . 

7 . 41in . 
6 . XVI. : (i ) Reduce to minimum the whipping of Ajit by Vijay Narain Singh 
in the jungle. 

. . 2 . 91m . 
( Length retained : 5 .49m . ) 
Reduce considerably the climax fight between Ranjit and Sarju , 
particularly deleting bits with gun butt , hard hitting blows on 
facc and stomach ctc . , 

, 

10 . 75m . 
(Lenyth retained : 20 .61m . ) 
Deleted voluntarily in recl No . XIV : 1 . 80m . 
Length of deletions : 57 23m . 
Length of approved replacement : 2 .83m 
Vol. deletions : 1 80m 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 
3953 257 . in 16 recl. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


2282 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III _ _ Sec . 4 

- - - - - -- - - - - - - 
3 --- - - - 5 - 

7 - 
ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 
B /72157 
Film : " Badhti Ka Naam Dadhi" (Hindi) 

U -Certificate No . 75413 of 17- 7- 1974 . 
Reol : 

Rool ; 

Rool : 
VI : Deleted various shots : 61 26m . X : Deleted various shots: 3 . 60m . XIII : Deleted various shots : 4 . 60m , 
VIII : Deleted various shots : 4 .08m . XI : Deleted various shots : 5 . 5m . XIV : Deleted various shots : 3 .80m . 

IX : Deleted various shots ; 4 . 10m . XII ; Deleted various shots : 4 .09m . XV : Deleted various shots : 2 .02m . 


92 . 60m , 

VII · Added various shots ; 91 .44m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3979 .53m . 
This certificato was endorsed on 12th August, 1974 . 
R /72494 
Film : " Nrutyollas " (Marathi) (Colour) 
U -Certi. No . 75129 of 4 -6 - 1974 . 

This cortificato is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour . The length of tho 
film remains unchanzod , 

This certificate was endorsed on 13th August, 1974 . 
B / 72493 
Film : " Lok Nrutya " (Gujarati) 
U - Cort . No . 95128 of 4 -6- 1974 . 

This cortificato is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour. Tho length of 
the film romains unchangod , 

This cortificato was ondorsed on 13th August, 1974 . 
B /70809 
Film : Trailer of " Mr. Romeo" Hindi) 
U - Cort . No. 74038 of 6 -12 - 1973. 

Deleted various shots : 1 . 83m . 
Added various slots 5 . 79m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 106 . 07m . 

This certifiato was endorsed on 16th August , 1974 , 
B / 70579 
Film : " Dharmendra Plays Pocketmaar" 
U - Cort , No. 74793 of 13 -4 - 1974 , 

Rool X : Deleted various shots : 34 -44m . 
Actual length of the film after he aforesald deletions will be : 3929 - 59ni, 

This certificato was ondorsed on 16th August, 1974 , 
B /72685 
Film : " Do Bhai" (Hindi) (Colour) 
U - Cort. No. 74897 of 9- 5 - 1974 . 

This cortificato is also valid for Punjabi version of the film in colour. 
The length of the film romains unchangod , 
This certificato was ondorsed on 17th August, 1974 , 


CALCUTTA 


U 
73475 


C /8065 


Swarna Manjuri 

( Bengall ) ( 35mm .) 


3787 -14 

( 14 ) 


Com Enterpriso , 

9 , Crooket Lane, 
Calcutta - I. 


Ramesh Naidu , 

9 , Crookot Lano, 
Caloutta - 1 . 


13 - 8 - 74 

U 


C /8066 


91 -44 

(3 ) 


Kuka (No dialoguo , 

Song Or Com 
montary ) ( Colour ) 

mnm .) West Ger 
many . 


Offalwagon 

163 /53, Lako Gas- 
dons , Caloutta . 


Koollor & Knappich 

Ausburg West 
Gormany . 


73476 

- PE, 
13 - 8 - 74 


- 


- 


- 


PART II — S & c . 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1397) 


2283 


M /8821 


4651 - 24 

( 18 ) 


• Baala Bharatha 

(Kannada ) (Colour) 
( 35mm .) Indial 


Venus Mahooja Pic - Venus Maheoja 
turos , . Madras , 

turos , Macras , 


Pic - 


U 
67670 


12 - 8 74 


M /8801 


67671 

- With cuts , 
12 - 8 . 74 


Noniu ( Telugu ) 4115 .00 Imkeyyesboc , 

Tinkcyyesboc, 
(Colour ) ( 350m .) (17 ) Madras , 

Madras , 
India . 
Endorseinent on certificate No. 67671- U dated 12 -8-74 issued to the Alm Nomu ( Telugu ) 
( Colour ), 
Length applied . 4124 00 Mts . 


Mts . 
4 . 56 


1 . 52 


1 . Rool 5ceIrom tho song picturisation , delete tho otions of Iswar crossing his dog 

ovor Parvathi when both are lying ovor the rovolving bed . . . . 
2 . Roel 9- - From the song picturisation , delete ( gwar carossing tho postrrior of 

Parvati, 

( Roplaced flower shot : 1 . 52 ) . , , , , , , , 
3. Reol 10 - Delete the reforonce to Dr, C . R . Roddy from the dialoguo of Puliraju , 
4 . Rool 13 – From tho song toxt, delete tho words ‘Magasiri Vedi" from the song bo 

ginning with the words " Taka Taka " (including all repetitions of tho 
samo.) 
(Roplaced aproved words). . . . . . . . . 

Total . . . 


4 .44 


10 - 52 


Total replacement 1 . 52Mts . 
Actual length will be : 4115 .00 Mts, in 17 Reels . 


M /8593 


109 . 72 

(1) 


• Talk It up 

( English ) (Colour ) 
( 16nim .) (USA ). 


U 
67672 


Madras Rofinerios National Safoty 
Ltd . , Madras, 

Counoll , USA , 


P . E . 


13- 8 - 74 


M /879 ) 


U 
67673 

- 
13 - 8 - 74 


With outs . 


Thacholi Marumagan 4383 - 93 Suchitramanjari, Suchitra Manjari, 
Chandu (Mala - (16) Madras . 

Madras , 
yalam ) (Colour ) 

(35mm .) India . 
Endorsement on certificate No . 67673 - U dated 13- 8 - 74 isgued to tho film Thacholi Maru 
magan Chandu (Malayalam ). 
Langth appllod . 4385 . 14 Mts , 


Cuts. 


Mis . 


. 


1 :21 


1. Rool 6 – Delete the close -shot of tho scorpion crawling ovor the bare bolly of the 

captive . 
2 . Rool 11 - Delete the dialoguo of Chappan " Purakoy Nadannu Endoy Pazham 

Thinnadhum Pora , Mundum Azhikkano ? 
(Sound only _ replaced approvod words.) 

Total . . . 


1 :21 


Actual length of the film will he : 4383 . 93 Mts , in 16 Reels . 


M / 8831 


219 .45 

( 1 ) 


Anupam Movies , 
Madras . 


Anupam Movies, 
Madras , 


67674 


100th Day Cele . 
bration of Yoradu 
Kanasu (Kannada ) 
(Colour) (3 mm .) 
India , 


13 - 8 - 74 


U 
67675 


With cuts, 


14 - 8 - 74 


M /8795 

Kodi Vidyalu Kuti 4335 77 Panduranga Pic - Smt. K . Rangamma, 
Korako ( Telugu ) ( 18 ) tures , Madras, 

Madras, 
( 35mm .) B & W . 

India . 
Endorsement on certificato No . 67675 - U dated 14 -8 -74 imalled to the fllm Kodi Vidyalu 
Kuti Korako ( Tolugu ). 

Longth appllod , 4354 .05 Mts . 
19 .-- 369 GI/ 75 


IL 


2284 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III - SEO . 4 


* - 


KY 


KAAL 


I- 


- - - - - - 


- - 


- - 


- o - - - - 


- 


- - + H 


= - = 


= * - _ 


THE 


NEW 


2 


34 


UL 


- 


- 


- P 


- 


. 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


un 


V 


- L - SE 


P 


- 


2 - A 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


Mos. 


Cuts . 
Rocl 1 - Irom Sonu sd oyuw , delete the you ence " Tana panikindil vachinar 

pudu aduti manishi buli ayina koodil digulu padarli." , referring to 
politicians, 

. . . . 
Total . . . 


18 : 28 


18 - 28 


Actual length of the film will be 4335 -77 Metres in 18 Reels. 


U 


M / 8793 


Witli cuts , 


Inti Kodalu 

4257 .74 Madhu Pictures , Shri P . Mallikarjuna 67676 
( Tolugu ) (35min ( 17 ) 

Madras , 

Rao , Madras , 

- - - - 
B & W . , India , 

14 -8 -74 
Endorsement on cortificate No . 67676 - U datod the 14 -8 -74 issued to tho film Inti Kodaju 
( Telugu ) ( 35mm .) B & W . 
Length applied. 4263 . 21 Mts . 

Mts . 
Roel 10 - Reduce to a flash , the shot of Venų loaning oyor Janaki on bod , deleting 
the suggestive kissing . . 

5 .47 


Cuts , 


Total 


. 


. 


. 


5 -47 


Actual length of the film will be 4257 - 74 Mts. In 17 Reels , 


M /8826 


30 .48 ( 0 ) 


Happy Life ( Tamil ) 

(colour ) (35min .) 


Film Molia , 

Bonibay 


Shri Jyoti G . Thakur. 


67677 


India . 


14 - 8 -74 


M / 8827 


30 -48( 1 ) 


U 
67678 


Shri Jyoti G . Thakur 


Quick Roliof | 

( Tolugu ) (orwo 00 
lour ) (35mm .) India ," 


Film Modia , 

Bombay 


14 - 8 - 74 


M / 8828 


30 .48 (1 ) 


Film Medja , 

Bombay , 


Shri Jyoti G . Thakur 


U 
67679 


Life is Fun (Kan . 

nada ) ( orwo co 
Jour) (35mm .) India . 


14 - 8 - 74 


U 


M / 8820 


4484 20 

(17) 


Excol Productions , 

Allorey . 


Excol Productions , 

Allorey . 


67680 


" Thumbolarcha 

(Malayalam ) 
(Eastmanoolour ) 
(35mm .) India , 


16 - 8 - 74 


M /8123 


With cuts , 


" Tirapati ( Tolugu ) 4200 -00 Prasad International, Shri Veerama hononi 67681 
(35mm .) B & W . 

( 18 ) Bangaloro . 

Prasad 
Indja . 

17 - 8 - 74 
Endorsement on Certificato No. 67681- U dated the 17th August 1974 - issued to the film 
" Tirapathi ( Tolugu ) ( 35mm ) B & W . 
Longth applied , 4331 76 Motros . 
Cuts. 

Metres 
1 . Roel 7 – Delet the entire sequence of the Khojja (the offominate person1) taking 

Tipathi into his house sending him into the bathroom for a bath poep 
ing through the keyhole and passionately looking at his body and at his 
dhoti scratching his own thigh getting excited standing on the bed 
listoning to the song Hun tum ekkamrame bund hain etc . until and 
upto Tirapathi running away to the road . (No objection to their meet 
ing carlier in the restaurant. ) 

TESTILLILA . ) 

,. . . . . . . . 

77 . 11 
2 . Reol 10 _ - Delete the following dialoguo of Kusal Rao : - " Swatantram vachi 

patike samvacharalyandi. Patika samvacharallalo mana peddavalanta 
kalisi tagito tappu ledannaru " . . . . . . . 

2 . 89 

. 
3 . Reel 10 Delete the follo lialogue of a student in the hotel : - “ Katnalo 

bharum perigi poyi anda pillalaku pellialay choyalaka road mooda 
Vakilestoo vyabhichara vrittikidoliadam clestunna yoo rojullo " . 

9 .74 


4 , Recl 11 - Delete all tho kissing sounds botwocul a man and a wojnan in the hotel 

after thoy go outfield as Tirapati is watchi gag them . (Sound .) 


5 . Reel 11 - - Delete the following dialogue of Vijaya telling her paramour about her 

husband " Aadadi kavalane korika matram vuntundi. Pakkane Paduk 
uana chalanam kooda vundadu . (Replaced approved words. ) . 

- - - - - - - - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - — 


PART, IL SEC . 4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANĄ 22, 1897) 


2288 


- 
4 


G + tum 


0 -91 


5 . 78 


0):45 


2 -43 


6 . Reel 12 – From the song picturisation delete Nayudu bava crossing his leg over 

Narayanamma whon both arc lying on bed . (Replaced insert Tira 

pati ) 
7 . Rcel 14 . - Delete the following dialogue of Kusal Rao to his wife : - Mogudi kosam 

Seetha emi chesindi ? Ravanasurudi daggIraku vellindi Savitri emi 

chesindi ? Yamudi daggiraku vallindi” . . . . . . 
8 . Roel 14 - From the song picturisation , delete tho action of Kusal Rao opening the 

night gown and rubbing the bosom of Tirupati in a suggestivo manner 
against thio words " Choodu choodu " in the song -text. (Replaced 
previous shot 0 .45 ) . . . . . . 

. . . 
9 . Rocl 15 - Delete Sita s sentonco " Drapudaciki eitliuguru bhartalytc , naku rojuku 

eithuguru mogullu . 
10 . Reel 15 - - Delete the detailed sequence of Satya Ruo killing Seetha by Smothering 

her with a pillow on bed , retaining only the last shot for a suggestion , 
11 . Reel 16 – Reduce considorably Tirapati hanging procariously from hotel building 

holding a bed slicet. 
12. Reci 17 – In the fighting scene, delete Tirupathi knocking the head of Salya Rao 

against the wall of the terrace. . 
13 . Rccl 17. - From 1110 speech of Tirapathi addressing the crowd after he kills Satya 

Rao , delete the following sentcnces : " Dabbu kosam manishini nilu 
vune kalchese vally doraly , Tindi leka yee karuvule kali poyovally 
dongalu . Pillalni kooda ammukuno donga nayally doralu , Pillalku 
tindi pettaloka vishaiichi champukunovally dongalu " . 

Total . . . 


10 .66 


11 . 27 


2 . 74 


9 . 14 


133 . 12 


Total replacemoot - 1 .36 Mts . 

Actual length is 4200 .00 Mts. In 18 Reels . 
Particulars of Films Certifiod or Refused Certificate by the Centrul Board of Film Censors 
During the Weck ending 24th August 1975 BOMBAY 

U 
" Indian Nows Review 186 . 53 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Film Division , Govt, 75837 
No , 1348 - A " (Eng 

of ladia , 24 - Peddar of ludia , 24 - Peddar - 4 
lish & Hindi) (35mm ) 

Road , Bombay- 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 20 - 8 - 74 
(News rcel) 


B / 72801 


B /72709 


75838 


P . E . 


" Tiino" (Music Only ) 

( 16 inm ) . (Docu 
montary ) . 


155 .45 ( 1) Gopi Gajwani, V - Q Gopi Gajwani, V . Q 

Rajnari Gardon , New Rajnari Gardon , 
Delhi- 27 . 

Now Delhi- 27 . 


20 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72712 


75839 


" Ultrablond Clouragil" 
(Hindi) (Colur ) 
(35mm .) Adyt.) 


30 . 48 ( 1) Film Media , 47 - Laxmi Film Media , 47-Laxmi 

Inguranco Building, Insurance Building, 
Sir P . M . Road , Sir P . M . Road , 
Bombay - 1 . 

Bombay - 1 . 


20 -8 -74 


B / 72711 


30 .48 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


U 
75840 


20 - 8 - 74 


" Clearasil Opens 
Drios Clours up Pip 
les " (Marathi) (Co 
lour) (35mm . ) 

(Advt.) . 
" Cloarasil Helps Fight 
Pimples " (Gujarati) 
( Colour ) (35 mm .) 
(Advt. ) . 


U 


1 /72710 


30 .48 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do 


75841 


20 -8 - 74 


B /72409 


75842 


P . E . 


" A Voyage of Dis - 
covery" (English ) 
( 35 mm . ) (Documen 
tary). 


410 - 00 (2 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 -Poddar 
Road , Bombay -26 . Road , Bombay -26 . 


4 


20 -8 - 74 


U 


B /72688 


" Fort Lauderdale Gift 
of the Soa " (Music 
Only ) ( Colour ) ( 16 
mm .) (USA ). 


146 61(1 ) United States Infor- Fort Lauderdalo Ch . 

mation Service , 4 . amber of Commerce . 
Now Marino Lines , 
Bombay - 20 . 


75843 Not P . E . 
20 -8 - 74 


U 


B / 72667 


159 . 41 (1) 


Do . 


" You ll Love New 
Orleans " (English ) 
(Colour) ( 16 mm .) 
(USA ). 


Greater New Orleans 

Tourist & Conven -S 
tion Centre 


75844 Not P . E . 
t . 
20 - 8 - 74 


2286 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) (PART III SEC . 4 


2 


3 


5 


B /72671 


U 
75845 Not P . E . 


“ The South " (English ) 
(Colour) (16 mm .) 
(USA .). 


134 .41 ( 1) United States Infor. Paramount Pictures 

mation Service , 4 
New Marine Lines , 
Bombay -20 . 


20 - 8 - 74 


B / 72714 


75846 


" Kalu Bulu alias Zan - 
zirbar No Jadugar " 
(No dialogue or Com 
mentary ) (Colour ) 
( 35 mm .). 


898 .25 (4 ) Yogendra Desai, Yogendra Desai, 

Sanskriti Bhavan , Sangkriti Bhavan , 
K . M . Road , Bombay - K . M . Roud , Bom 

bay - 7 . 


20 -8 -74 


B /72713 


ប 
75847 


" The Farmor Speaks " 
( Punjabi) ( Colour ) 
(35mm ) . (Advt.) 


01 :00 ( 1) Jeevan Bhardwaj, S .C . Plute Intoraational. 

0 . 24 , Soctor , 17 - E , 
Chandigarh . 


20 - 8 -74 


U 


B / 72802 


" Indian News Reviow 

No , 1349 " (News rcel) 
(35 mm ) 


221 00 (1) Films Division , Govt . Films Division , Govt. 75848 (Valid for English , 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar - - - - Hindi, Marathi, 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 21 - 8 - 74 Gujarati, Assa 

moso , Oriya , Pu 
njabi, Bengali 
Kaghoiri, Urdu 
Versions .) 


U 


B /72803 


304 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do , 


" Indian Nows Review 
No . 1349" (Southorn 
Edition ) (Newsreel ) 
(35 mm .) 


75849 (Valid for English , 

Gu . Hindi, Tamil, 
21 - 8 - 74 Telugu , Kannada 

and Malayalam 
versions .) 


U 


B /72682 


75850 


" All Your Achys 
Gone " (Gujarati ) 
(Colour ) (35min .) 
(Advt.). 


30 - 48 (1 ) Climb Filmy, 22 Arun Climb Films, 22 Aura 

Chombers , Tardoo , Chembers , Tardeo , 
Bonbdy - 34 . 

Bombay - 34 , 


21- 8 -74 


B / 72786 


U 
75851 Not P . E . 


" Puerto Rico A 
Pleagure to bo hero " 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm .) (USA ) . 


162 - 15 ( 1 ) United States Informu- Tourism Development 

tion Servico , 4 - Co . 
Now Marino Linos , 
Bombay - 20 . 


21- 8 - 74 


B / 72787 


“ Vision USA 30 " 
( English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm . ) 


310 29 ( 1) 

Do. W .H . Productions Ltd . 75852 PE. 

21-8 -74 

U 
393 .00 ( 2 ) Filmns Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 75853 P . E . 

of ladia 24. Poddar of ludia , 24- Peddar - - - 
Road , Bombay- 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 21 - 8 -74 


B /72696 


" Muduring Judicious - 

ly " ( English ) (Docu 
montary ) (35 mnm .) 


B /72698 


311 .00 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


75854 


P . E 


“ Alort Always " ( Eng- 
lish ) (35 mm .) (Do. 
cumentary) . 


21 - 8 - 74 


U 


B / 72687 


300 .00 ( 1 ) Consulato General of Dentsu Motion Pic 
Japun . Bombay . 

turos Co . Ltd . , 


75855 


P . E . 


" Welfare For The 

Pooplo - Search for 
harmonoy 10 Living " 
(English ) ( Colour) 
(16 mm .) (Japan .) . 


21 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72784 


" Once Upon A Timo" 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(Adv .) (35mm .) 


29 .87 (1 ) Zebaish Exhibition 

Services Pvt. Ltd . 
Nanavati Mahalaya . 
Bombay- 1 . 


Zebaish Exhibition 75856 
Service Pvt. Ltd ,, - - 
Nangyatı Mahalaya , 21 - 8 - 74 
Bombay- 1 . 


B / 72694 


Chandrakant M , Gor , 


75857 


With triangle mark . 


" Har Har Mahadev ? 4392 . 17 (17) Joy Films, Tlawala 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 

Bldg., Tribhuvan 
(35 mm .) 

Road , Bombay 4 . 


22 - 8 - 74 


Endorsement 

Original Length : 4507 -38 m . 


PART III- SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA. 22, 1897) 


2287 


2 


S 


Cut 
No. 


Reel 
No , 


34 . 44 m . 


4 -57 m . 


14 - 32 m . 


1. TV From the Rati- Kimdev " unco before the ineditating Shankar, 

clelere all postures of the couplo which look indecorous and 
vulgar , including the shots of close embruces , body contacts , 
songuous looks , shaking bosom , lying on the ground , puting of 
male dancers legs Over female dancer etc . . . . 

(Replaced with approved shots - 914 m . ) 
Vi In tho soeng when shiv tries to catch hold of Parvati, delete all 

indocorous shots . . . . . . . . 
VII Delete all prominent shots of suggestive nudity while Parvati 

is shown taking bath . . . 

(Replaced with approved blow up shots : 14 -32 m .) 
XVI Delete the entire sequence involving confrontation and fight 
& XVII between Ganesh and Hanuman which is not in conformity with 

accopted versions of mythology and might hurt the followers 

of Hinduism . . . . . . . . 
Length of coletions : 138 •67 m . 
Length of approved roplacement : 23 :46 n . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 4392 ·17 in . In 17 reels, 


4 . 


85 . 34 m 


B / 72716 


75858 With triangle mark 


22 - 8 - 74 


" Trailer of Jab And 96 . 48 ( 1 ) The Roop Enterprises, Kailash Chopra . 
lerna Hota Hai" 

Air Conditioned Mar 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

ket, Bombay - 34 . 
( 35 mm . ) 
Endorsement 
Original Length : 97 . 54 m . 

Reiluce tho violonce in the fights , particularly the last onc , il voidingall gruesono 
looking shots 
( Length retained : 6 .01M .) . . . . . . . . . 


1 .06 m . 


Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 96 .48 m . 


B / 72700 


742 .00(3 ) Sovexportfilm , Bom - 

bay- 5 . 


Soyuzmultfilm Studio 


U 
75859 


" The Nutcrackor 

(English ) (Colour) 
( 35 mm . ) (USSR .) 


P . E . 


22 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72699 


295 .00 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


75860 


P . E . 


" Threo Tankmon " 
( English ) (Sovcolour) 
(35 mm .) (USSR ) 


22 -8 - 74 

U 
75861 


B / 72702 


550 . 00 ( 2 ) 


Do. 


Contral Popular Soi 
onco Film Studios, 


P . E . 


" Film Travol Al 

Inwac " (No. 82 Al 
manaklı Kinoputosh 
ostivii) (English ) 
(Sovcolour ) (35 mm . ) 
(USSR ) . 


22 - 8 - 74 


3 /72701 


290 .00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do. 


" Around The Soviet 
Union No. 109" (Po 
Sovetkimi _ So yuzu ) 
( English ) (Sovcolour) 
(35mm . ) (USSR ) . 


U 
75862 Not P .E . 
22 -8 -74 


1 / 72780 


110 .00 (1 ) USSR Consulate Geo. Far East 
ral Bombay- 26 . 

Studior , 


Now reol 


U 
75863 


" Kolina s Highways " 
( English ) (Colour) 
(16mm .) (USSR ). 


Not P . E . 


23 -8 -74 


B / 72767 -69 


" Sumquit " ( Colour) 
(16 ini . ) (USSR ). 


110 - 00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Azerbaijan 
Studio 


Film 


75864 Not P . E . (Valid 

- for English , 
23 - 8 - 74 Hindi, Bengali , 

versions.) 


U 


B /72781- 82 


110 .00 (1 ) 


Do . 


" Homo of Tho First 
Atomio Station " 
(Colour) (16mm .) 
(USSR ). 


Leningrad documen 
tary Film Studlo . 


75865 

- 
23- 8- 74 


P . E . ( Valid 
English & 
vorsions.) 


for 
Hindi, 


2288 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [ PART 1 - SEC , 4 


1 


5 


6 


U 


B /72766 


278 - 00 ( 1) USSR Consulate Gene - Central Documentary 
ral Bombay - 26 . 

Film Studio , 


75866 


" Moscow Film Ro - 
viow No , 6 " ( English ) 
( Colour ) (35 mm .) 
(USSR ). 


P . E . 


23 - 8 . 74 


B /72805 


U 
75867 


" Chakor Priya " 
(Hindi) ( Colour ) 
(35mm .) (Advt.) 


30 .48 (1 ) Kul Bhuslan Anand , Kul Bhushan Anand , 

A /902 , Punam Ap - A /902, Punam Ar . – 
ilriment, Bonibay- 18 . artment, Bombay - 18 . 


23 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72806 


30 -48 (1) 


Do, 


Do. 


75868 


" Shubha Kamana " 
(Hindi) ( Colour ) 
(35mm .) (Advt.) 


23- 8 - 74 


B /72807 


" Kar Bhala Ho Bhala " 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
( 35mm .) (Advt.) 


30 -48 ( 1) Kul Bhushan Anand, Kul Bhushan Anand, 75869 

A /902 , Punan Apart A /902 , Punam Apart - — 
mont , Bombay -18 . mont, Bombay - 18 . 23 - 8 - 74 

U 
300 - 23 ( 1 ) Liaison Olhcor, Govt. Diroctor of Informla - 75870 P , E , 
of Gujarat. 

tion , Govt. of Gu - - 
jurat, Gandhinagar . 24 - 8 - 74 


B /72707 


" Van Vasino Vikas" 
(Gujarati) (35 mm .) 
(Documentary ) ( Shor 
tor Version ) 


B / 72708 


92 . 66 ( 1) 


" Trailor of Mera V4 - 
chan Goeta Ki Qua 
sam " (Hindi) ( Col 
lour) (35mm .) 


M . M . R . Films, Vinod 
kumar and A , Nai- 
rang , Bombay - 18 . 


U 
Vinodkumar and A , 75871 
Nairang . M . M . R . - - 
Films. 

24 - 8 - 74 


B /72743 


" Spring Starts " (Eng- 
lish ) (Colour ) (35ınm ) 
(USSR ). 


664 .00 (3 ) USSR . Çonsulalo Go- Contral Docuinontary 

noral Bombay - 26 . Film , Studio 


75872 


P . E . 


24 - 8 - 74 


B /72762 


293 .00 (3 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


" Wo are the State " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (USSR ). 


U 
75873 

- PE . 
24 - 8 - 74 


B /72688 


U 
75874 With triangle nark , 


" Trailor of Chattan 
Singh " (Hindi) (Col 
our ) (35mm .) 


94 · 1901 ). M / s Anubhay Fums, M / s . Anublay Films, 

226 /301, Pamous 226 /301 Famous 
Cino Blug . , Bombay . Cino Blly, Bombay - 
11. 

11. 


24 - 8 -75 


Endorsement 


Original Longth : 104 -86 m . 

1. Delete inolostation of a girl by a old man ; 3 .20 m . 
2 . Delete Chattan Singh abusing his wife and son 

7 .47 m . 
3 . Reduce tho impact of violonco by doloting shots of gun fire and har hilting , 
Length of deletions : 10 . 67 m . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 94 . 19 m , 
" Gonesis " ( English ) 714 -02 (3 ) Film and TV Insti - Film and TV Instituto Rofused 
(35 mm .) 

tuto of India , Law of India , Law Col- Cortificato 
Collego Road , Poont - logo Road , Poona 4 

21 - 8 -74 


B / 72320 


ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 


B /72358 -60 
Film : " Chidiyagarh Ki Sair ” (Hindi) 
U - Cort. No , 75151 of 12 -6-1974 

This Certificate is also valid for Musathi, Bengali and Oriya versions of the film in colour . 
The length of tho film romains wichanged . 
This cortificato was ondorsed on 19th August, 1974 . 


B /72664 -65 
Film : " OMO " ( English ) 
U - Cort , No . 75278 of 11-7 - 1974 . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


1 


PART III — Sec. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECLMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2289 


EU 


- - - - - - - - 


-- - --- - - 4 - : - * - * - * I 


TY 


* * 


*** 


* * * 


KHIMAD WW pe 


1 
- - - - - - 


- - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - 


- - - - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


+ 


- 


- 


- 


+ 


- 


A 


- 


- 


- 


This coruficato is also valid for Marathi and Konkani vorsins of the film , 
The longth of the filni romains unclunged . 

This certific . l1o was ondorsed on 19th August, 1974 . 
B /50700 
Film : Froo Indood " (English ) 
U - Cert. No . $ 1445 of 29 -7 - 1967 

This cortificate is also valid for Gorman vorsjon of the film in colour. 
The longth of the film remains unchanged . 
This certificato was ondorsed on 19th August . 1974 . 


B /72705- 6 
Film : “ A Now Kind Of Fortune Teller" 
U -Cort . No . 74435 of 4 - 3- 1974 

This certificate is also yalid for Hindi and Punjabi vērsions of the film in colour , 
The longth of the film romains unchangod . 
This cortificato was endorsed on 20th August , 1974 , 


B /72703-4 
Film : " Jadumantar " ( English ) 
U . Cort . No. 74433 of 4 - 3 - 1974 

This cortificate is also valid for Hindi and Punjabi versions of the film in colour, 
The length of tho film remains unchanged , 
This certificato was endorsed on 20th August, 1974 , 


B /67533 
Film : “ Jotty At Kalpakka " ( English ) 
U - Cort. No. 71115 of 31 - 10 - 1972 

Deleted yarious shots : 87 .78 m . 
Actual length of the filin after the aforesaid deleilons will be : 262 .74 ni . 
This certificate was ondorsod on 20th August, 1974 . 


B /61676 
Film : " Ajsa Kyon " (Hindi) 
U - Cort. No. 62213 dt . 30 - 12 - 1970 

Film Division s monogram is approved : 3 .42 m . 
Added : " It is a Triveni Pictures Prosentation " : 3 .43 in . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid additions will be : 70 . 86 m . 
This cortificato was endorsed on 22nd August, 1974 , 


B / 72804 
Film : " Bharat Teerth " (English ) 
U - Cort. No. 74372 of 16 - 2 - 1974 

This certificate is also valid for the following vorsions of the film under the titlos indicated against each of them . 
Hindi 

Bharat Teerth 
Marathi 

Bharat Toorth 
Gujarati 

Bharat Teerth 
Bengali 

Bharat Toorth 
Assamose 

Bharull Teerth 
Oriya 

Bharat Toerih 
Urdu 

Bharat Teerth 
Punjabi 

Bharat Toorth 
Telupu 

Bharat Toortham 
Malayalam 

Bharatha Thoertham 
Kannada 

Bhaarata Dosha 
Tamil 

Bharata Dogam 


The length of the film romains unchanged , 
This certificate was ondorsod on 24th August 1974 , 


C /8073 


Sukhi Grecho Kong 
(Documentary ) (Ben 
gali ) ( India ) . 


CALCUTTA 
320 .95( 1) Shankar Bancji Pro - Dept. of Information 73477 

Juction 68 /31- C Govt . of W , Bengal 1 - - - - - - - - 
Russa Road Cal-26 . Writers Buildings 24 -8 -74 
Calcutta . 

U 
99 -06 ( 1 ) Pratima Pictures 56 /9 Pratima Pictures 56 /9 73478 

M . N . Sen Road , M . N . Sen Road - 
Calcutta 

Calcutta . 


C / 8070 


Trailer of Mauchaak 
( Bongali) -- (35 min .) 
(India ) . 


24- 8 - 74 , 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2290 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III — SEÇ . 4 


0 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


Y 


I - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


C / 8074 


Chhutir Ghanta ( Ben 
gali ) ( 35 mm .). 


Oikyatan 6 / 1 -8 / 
Northern Avenue 
Calcutta . 

MADRAS 


U 
Oikyatan 6 / 1 - 8 / Nor - 73479 
thern Avenue - - - - - - 
Calculti . 

24 - 8 - 74 


U 


M / 8837 


102 - 10 ( 1) Suchitramanjari 

Madras, 


Trailer of Thacholi 
Marumaran Chandu 
(Malayalam ( (Colour) 
(35 mm .) (India ) . 


Suchitaramanjari 
Madras. 


67682 


19 - 8 - 74 


M /8838 


67683 


Doorgha 
( Telugu ) 
( Colour ) 
( India ). 


Sumangal 4251 . 96 (16 ) Gopalakrishna Prodns . Gopalakrishna Prodng. 
(Partly Madras , 

Madras . 
(35 mm .) 


20 -8- 74 


U 


M /8836 


Chitra 


Chitre 


*Himmatwall (Hindi) 3840 .00 ( 14 ) Koorti 
(35 mm .) B & W 

Madras . 
(India ). 


Koerti 
Madras . 


67684 


20 - 8 - 74 


U 
67685 


M /8842 


Trailer of 
Nishan 
(Colour) 
(India ). 


A khiri 

(Hindi) 
(35 mm .) 


91 44 ( 1) Hemalata Films (MA- Himalata Films 
dras ) Madras , 

(Madras ) Madras. 


21 - 8 - 74 


M / 8843 


83 -82( 1) Neola Productions 

Trivandrum . 


U 
67686 


Neela Productions 
Tryandrum . 


Trailer of Devi Kanya 
Kumari (Malayalam ) 
( Colour ) ( 35 mm .) 
(India ). 


21 - 8 - 74 


U 
67687 


M / 8819 


Haatati* 
(35 mm . ) 
(India ) . 


( Telugu ) 4557 - 97 (18 ) Devi Priyadharshni Devi Priyadarshini 
B & W . 

Plctures Madras . Pictures Madras . 


22- 8 - 74 


M /8857 


Tamilnadu Govt. 
Rocional Now Bul 
lotin No. 122 ( Tamll ) 
(35 mm . ) B & W . 
(India ) 


305 . 00 ( 1 ) Tho Directorate of the Directorate of 67688 

Information & Public Information & Public my 
Relations Madras. Rolations Madras . 22 - 8 - 74 


U 
67689 


M /8841 


30 .48 (1) Shri M . S . Rajappan , Movic [nternational, 

Madras . 


Championalla Ayike 
(Kannada ) (Eastidan 
colow ) (35 mm . ) 
(India ). 


23 - 8 - 74 


M /8834 


Neela Productions 
Trivandrum , 


U 
67690 


Dovi Kanyakumari 3961 18 ( 15) Neela Productions 
(Malayalam ) (East 

Thiruvandrum , 
mancolour) (35 mm .) 
( India ), 


24- 8 - 74 


M / 8829 


67691 


"Bhaktha Kumbara 4340 - 35 (16 ) Lakshmi Film Com - Lakshmi Film Con 
(Kannada ) (Eastman 

bines , Madras. bines , Madras . 
colour) (35 mm .) 
(India ). 


24 - 8 - 74 


U 


M /8844 


" Take it Regularly 

(Eplish ) ( orwocol 
our ) (35mm .) ( India ) . 


30 -48 ( 1) Cinerad Communio Cincrad Communica 
cations , Madras . 

tions, Madras . 


67692 


24 - 8 - 74 


M /8854 


67693 


Build stronth and 
Roslatanco ( English ) 
( orwocolour) (35 mm ) 


30 .48 ( 1) Cinerad Communica - Cinerad Communica 
tions, Madras . 

tions, Madras . 


24 - 8 -74 


(India ). 


S 


Week ending 31st August 1975 
BOMBAY 

ՀՄ 
697 . 00 ( 3 ) USSR Consulate Laningrad Documen - 75875 

General Bom - tary Film Studio . - - 
bay -26 . 

26 - 8 - 74 


P . E . 


B /72740 


" Education in USSR " 
(English ) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) (USSR . ). 


U 


8 /72783 


550 . 00 ( 2 ) 


Do . 


" Young Naturliost" 
(Eoghah ) - (Colour ) 
(35 mm .) (USSR ). 


Lower Volga Newsrool 
Film Studio . 


P . E . 


75876 
26 -8 - 74 


- - 


- - - - 


PART 1 - SEC. 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2291 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- -S 


S 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


5 


B /72744 -47 


" Soviet Army No . 21" 
( 35 mm .) (USSR ). 


597 00 ( 2) USSR Consulatu 

General, Bom 
bay- 26 . 


Central Documentary 
Film Studio . 


75877 Not P . E . Valid 

- for English Gu 
26 - 8 - 74 jarati Telugu & 

Kannada ver 
gions. 


B /72778 


554 . 00 


Do . 


Yeravan Documentary 
Film Studio , 


75878 


" Unforgetablo Years " 
(Engush ) ( Colour) 
(35 mm .) (USSR ) 


P . E . 


26 -8 -74 


U 


B /72779 


110 .00 (1) 


Do. 


Svedlysk Film Studio 


75879 


" Chelyabinsk " (Eng- 
lish ) (Colour) ( 16 
mm .) (USSR ) 


26 - 8 - 74 


B /72776 


110 00 


110 -00(1) 


" Petrolium - Born 

Town " (English ) 
(Colour) ( 35 mm .) 
(USSR ). 


Do 
. 


Do. 


Central Popular Sci 
once Film Studio . S 


75880 Not P .E . 
26 - 8 -74 


B / 72777 


748 00 ( 3 ) 


Do. 


U 
75881 P . E . 


“ Architectural Monu - 
monts of Uzbekiştan " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(35 mm .) (USSR ) 


Uzbekistan Popular 
Science and Educa - - 
tion Film Studio . 


26 - 8 - 74 


B /72774 - 75 


110 .00 ( 1) 


Do. 


Central Popular So 

viet Film Studio , 


U 
75882 Not P . E . 


" Iyanoy Experiences 
Robirth " ( English 
& Bongali ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) 


26 -8 -74 


B /72715 


U 
75883 


" Ranuja Na Raja 4084 52 ( 16 ) Patel Filmy, Shankar Naranbhai V . Patel, 
Ramdoy " (Gujarati ) 

Nagar Society , Ah Babubliai R . Patel. 
( Colour) ( 35 mm .) 

medabad , 


27- 8 - 74 


B /72606 


" Haath Ki Safal" 3889 -36 ( 10 ) Pushpa Pictures , 1- E 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 

Naaz Buldg ., Laming 
(35mm .) 

ton Road , Bombay - 4 


U 
L. A . Nadiadwala , 11- E 75884 With trianglo mark , 
Nakz Bldg. , Rombay - - - 
4 . 

27 - 8 - 74 


Endorsement 
Original longth : 3959 . 29 m . 

Cut Roel 
No. No . 


From Usmanbhai s lottor roading , delete tho underlined word 

from “ Tum aur hum okhi bistarmon upar , . . . " . ( Inked off ) . 
2 . XV In the scene of Raju hitting in jail, delete shots ui hard hittings 
on stomach and chin . . . . . . . 

1 .83 m . 
3. XV Delete hard hitting shots in fight betwoen two brothers 

2 . 44 m . 
XVI Reduce the last fight congidorably by drastically reducing hard 

hitting shots of hanging Kumar being banged on wagons, Ran 
jit holding the child at the point of pistol and blood smoarod 
face of Ranjit when he gets killod . 

65 . 66 m . 
( Longth retained : 50 34 m .) 
Longth of deletions : 69 . 93 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3889 - 36 m . in 16 reels , 


U 


B /72573 


" Who killed The Sale " 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm .) (U . K .) 


242 64 (3) AMA Education Pvt. Short Films Group , 75885 P .F . 

Ltd ., Canada Bldg ., Rank Advt . G . Fllins. -- 
Dr. D . N . Road , 

27 - 8 - 74 
Bombay- 1 . 


U 


B /72672 


75886 


" Faslah " (Hindi) 3884 . 00 (15) Khwaja Ahmed Ab- Khwaja Ahmad Ab - 
(Colour ) ( 35 mm .) 

bas , Philomena Lo bas, Philomena Lo - -- 
dge , Juhu , Bombay -54 . dge Juhu , Bombay -54 . 


27 -8 - 74 


B /72308 


" Froodom " 
(35 mm .) 


(English ) 


217 - 84 (1 ) 


(ngtituto 


Shri Girigh Karnard , Film & TV 
Director Film & TV of India , 
Institute of India . 


75887 With triangle mark . 
28 -8 -74 


20 - 369 01/75 


2292 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) (PART III - SEC . 4 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - - - 


- - - - 

1 


- 


- 


- - - - 

2 


3 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


-- 


- -- - -- - - - - 


- - - 


Endorsement - 
Original Length : 256 .03 m . 

Delete all photoos of political leaders such as the Prime Minister , Ministers and 
The President and military officer , . . . . . . . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 217 . 84 m . 


38 19 m , 


U 


B / 72845 


" Indian News Review 
No, 1350 " (35 mm .) 


225 . 00 (1) 


Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 75888 
of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddai - - - 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay -26 , 28 - 8 - 74 


Valid for English , 
Hindi, Tamil , Tal 
lugli , Капnada , 
Malayalam , As 
samose , Oriya , 
Punjabi, Bengali , 
Kashmiri and Urdu 
Vorsions . 


U 


B /72843 


300 .00 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do , 


75889 


" Indian Nows Review 
No. 1350 " (Western 
Edition ) ( 35 mm . ). 


28 - 8 -74 


Valid for English , 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, Sindhi, 
Versions. 


U 


B /72833 


" Mahiti Chitra No . 
188" (Gujarati) ( 35 
mm .) 


213 - 36 (1 ) Liaison Officer, Govt. Director of Informa- 
ofGujarat . 

tion Govt , of Gujarat, 


75890 


28 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72674 


" Vividhata Mumbai 
chi" (Marathi) (Co 
lour ) (35 m .) (Advt .) 


30 .48 ( 1) Film Media , 47- Laxmi Film Media , 47 -Lexmi 75891 

Ingurance Bldg ., Sir Ingurance Bldg . Sir - 
P . M . Road , Bombay - P . M . Road , Bombay . 29 - 8 -74 
1 . 

1 . 


U 


B /72798 


30 48 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do, 


" Cloarasil For Pimplo 
Contral" . (Marathi) 
(Colour ) (35 mm . ) 
(Advt.). 


Do. 


75892 


29 - 8 - 74 


B / 72799 


30 .48 ( 1 ) 


De 


U 
75893 


" Clearasil Proven 
Pimple Treatment" 
(Gujarati) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) (Advt .) 


29 - 8 -74 


U 


B / 72800 


3048 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


75894 


" Fight Your Pimple 
Problom With Clea 
rasil" (Hindi) (Co . 
Jour) ( 35 mm . ) 
(Advt .). 


29 - 8 - 74 


B /72830 


U 
75895 


P . E . 


" Plastic Kabler Ro - 
banhayn Roskilde " 
(Silent) (16 mm .) 


132 . 90 (1 ) S . R . Skrishnaswamy, Denmark . 

Aggtt. Engineer R , T . 
T , C . Sakinaka , Bom 
bay - 59 . 


29- 8 -74 


U 


B /72829 


P . E . 


" Cadences " The Five 
Bulso Tattoo " (Eng 
lish ) (Colour ) ( 16 
mm . ) . 


265 - 80 ( 1 ) Asstt . Engineer, T . T . Federal Republic of 

C . Sakinaka, Bombay - Germany . 
59 . 


75896 
29 -8 - 74 


B / 72814 


22 .86 ( 1 ) 


“ The Taste Matches 
up to tho name" 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(35 mm .). 


F . B . Production Film 
Contre , 68 - Tardeo 
Road , Bombay - 34 . 


U 
F . B . Production , Film 75897 
Contre 68 - Tardco - - - 
Road , Bombay - 34 . 29 -8 -74 


U 


B /72835 


30 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


75898 


" Dum Lon Dum 
Badar " (Hindl) (35 
mm .) (Adyt .) 


29 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72250 


" Laxmi, the Supreme 
Boauty " ( Telugu ) 
(Colour ) (Advt.) 
(35 inm .) 


30 . 47 ( 1) Ms. Yagh Raj Films M /s. Yash Raj Films. 

Pvt. Ltd . Bombay. Pvt . Ltd . Bombay . 


75899 


– 


29 - 8 - 74 


PART III - Sec . 4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2293 


2 


U 


B /72253 


30 -47 (1) 


Do , 


B/72253 


“ For Laxmi, A New 
Experlonce" (Kannada 
( Colour) (Advt.) 
(35 mm .). 


Do 


75900 


generators A Media 30-4701) 


D 


o. 


75900 


29 - 8 - 74 


30 . 47 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do 
. 


U 
75901 


150W 


B /72250 & 54 “ The complexion you 

wish you wero Bord 
With ( Tamil) (Co 
lour) (35 mm ) 
Advt.) 


29 - 8 -74 


B /72250 -54 


30 -47(1 ) 


U 
75902 


Do . 


"Got That Supreme 
Feeling " (Malyalam ) 
( Colour ) (35 mm .) 
(Adyt.), 


29 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72679 


75903 


" Trip To Bombay ": 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 35 mm .) (Advt.) 


30 48 (1) Film Media , 47 -Laxmi Film Media , 47 -Laxini 

Insurance Bldg ., Şir Insurance Bldg ., Sir – 
P . M . Road , Bom - P . M . Road , Bom - 
bay- 1. 

bay - 1 . 


30 -8 - 74 


B / 72796 


IT 
79904 


22 - 86 (1) M /s. Trio Films, M /s. Trio 
Bombay . 

Bombay . 


Films, 


" Get The Tasto " 

(English ) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) (Advt .) 


30 -8 - 74 


B /72797 


22 -86 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do. 


U 
75905 


Do 


" You ve Got Tuste " 
(English ) (Colour) 
(35 mm ) (Advt .). 


30 - 8 - 74 


B /72836 


U 
75906 


" Tal" (Hindi) ( 16mm ) 
(Documentary ) 


P . E . 


265 . 18 ( 2 ) Space Application 

Centre, Ahmedabad 


Application 


Space 
Contre . 


30 . 8 -74 


B /72756 - 60 


" Abreast of Our Timo" 
( 16 mm ) (USSR ). 


213 . 00 (2 ) USSR . Consulate Ge- Central Documentary 
neral. Bombay. 

Film Studio , 


75907 

( Valid for English , 
30 - 8 - 74 Kannada , Tolugu 

Gujarati, Mala 
yalam , verslode 


B /72761 


272 . 00 (1) USSR Consulate Ge- Central Documentary 
noral. Bombay , 

Film Studio . 


U 
75908 


P . E . 


"Moscow Film Reviw 
No 5 " (English ) 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 
(USSR ) 


30 - 8 - 74 


B / 72748 


110 - 00 ( 1) 


Do , 


Do , 


For Outstanding 
Contribution in the 
CAUSC of Peaco " 
(Colour ) ( 16 mm .) 
(USSR ). 


U 
75909 Not P . E . (Valid 

for Hindi, Kan 
30 - 8 - 74 nada, Malayalam , 
Bengali , Gujarati 

Marathi 
versions. 


U 


B /72723 


114 -00 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


Odessa Film 


Studio 


" Green Petrol" (Co - 
lour) ; ! ( 16 mm .) 
(USSR ). 


75910 

— 
30 - 8 - 74 


(Valid for Marathi 

Punjabi, Telugu , 
Kannada , Guja 
fati versions) . 


U 


B /72734 - 35 


109 -00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


75911 


Inventions of Prof. 
Alexandroy” (Hindi 
and English ) ( 16mm .) 
(USSR ) . 


109 
. 
00 
) 


Central Popular Sci 
ence Educational 
Film Studio . 


30 - 8 - 74 


B /72734 - 35 


112 -00 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


Central Documentary 
Film Studio . 


" Around Tho Soviet 
Union No. 102" 
(Colour ) ( 16 mm .) 
(USSR ). 


U 
75912 (Vlalid for Marathi, 

- Punjabi, Telugu 
30 - 8 -74 versions . ) 


B/ 72736 -37 


236 - 00 (2) 


Do . 


Do . 


75913 


" Soviet Army No. 20 " 
(Marathi & Kannada 
(16 mm .) (USSR ). 


30 - 8 - 74 


2294 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) (PART III - SEÇ. 4 


T 


- 


S 


U 


B /72376 -83 


75914 Not P. E . 


" Night Cargocs Pt. I 

The Woundled Stran 
ger" (English ) ( 16 
mm .) (U .K .). 


166 .73 (1 ) National Education and 

Information Cecil Musk . 
Films Ltd ., National 
House Tulloch Road , 
Bombay - 1 . 


31- 8 - 74 


B /72478 


" Hope In the Hills " 
( English ) ( Colour ) 
(35 mm .) 


562 - 36 (2 ) Look Publicity , Bom - West Bengal Statc 
bay - 50 . 

Electricity Board , 


75915 Not P . E . 


31 - 8 - 74 


B /72673 


A 
3235 


" Vazhkai 
( Tamil ) 
(35 mm .) 


Ragasyam " 
(Colour ) 


3699 . 12 ( 14 ) Adrsh Arts, Manek 

Chamber Lamington 
Road , Bombay -4 . 


B . K . Adarsh , Adarsh 
Arts , Bombay - 4 . 


27 - 8 - 74 


B /72282 


3236 With triangle mark . 


" Jab Andheraa Hota 3479 -88 ( 15 ) Kailash Chopra , 6145 The Roop Enterprises, 
Hai" (Hindi) Cu . 

Air Conditioncd Mar 
lour) (35 mm .) . 

ket, Bombay - 34 . 


29 - 8 - 74 


Endorsement i 
Original Length : 3540 -56 n . 

Cut Reel 


No. 


No . 


1. 


1 . 00 m . 


4 . 79 m . 


1 - 80 m . 


7 . 01 m . 


2 .02 m . 


1. 10 m . 


0 .66 m . 


I Keduce the scene of strangulation of the girl by deleting grue 

some visuals . 

(Length retained : 1 . 90 m .) 
IV Reduce the fighting between Vikrain and goondas in a dis 

couthcque, deleting hard hitting shots Also delete the shot of a 
goonda loking from below indecorously at the exposed upper 
part of Roina s thighs 

( Length retained : 36 .80 m .) 
VI Reduce by half the beating of Vikram by the gang of Dara 

(Length retained : 12 . 65 m . ) 
VITI Reduce to the minimum the scene of two prostitutes at the bar 

and delete the dialogue of one of the prostitutos " jab tak kisi ki 
sharir ki ang nahi bujhaoongi . . . . . . " . 

(Length retainod : 2 . 29 m . ) 
VIII Reduce the scene of Ranosh making love to Alka , deleting shots 

of his kissing god caressing her thigh , , , , 

( Length retaned : 5 .07 m .) 
VIII Reduce the strangulation of Alka by Pratap to tho minimum 

(Length retained ; 8 . 84 m .) 
VIIJ Reduce the stangulation of Raaji by Pratap . . . 

( Length retained : 1 .87 m . ) 
IX (u tho sequence of Roma and Vikram in the garden and during 

the picturisation of the song, delete all suggestions of kissing 
between the two and reduce the shots of suggestive actions 
of hands pressing tho back and logs , 

(Length retained : 3 .81 m .) 
(Replaced with approved shots : 4 -22m .) 
Delete the suggestion of kiss between Roma and Vikram and 
reduce shots of suggestive actions of hands pressing at tho back 

(Length retained : 139 m .) 
XI In the scene of imaginary killing of Ramcsh by Pratap , reduce 

Prutan hilting Rainçsh with the car to the minimum , 

(Length retaincd : 7 .82 m .) 
XI During the cabaret dance , delete indecorous actions of dancers 

and Vikram 

(Replaced with approved shots : 3 . 44 m .) 
XII Reduce the strangulation of a cabaret girl in the bath tub 

(Length rotainçd : 0 . 32m . 
XIV Reduce drastically the beating of Vikram on the bridge by 

yoondas , by delering gruçsome and hard hitting shots and 
prominent shots of their bloodmeered faces , . . 

(Longth retained : 26 . 56 m . ) 
Xv Delete the shot of attempted strangulation of Vikram by Pratap 

and also reduce the fight. . 
Vol. deletions in rcel 2 : 


4 . 22 m . 


2 . 28 m .) 


9 .03 ,m . 


3 44 m . 


0 - 22 m . 


28 . 19 m . 


14 . 


1 .61 m . 
0 .97 m . 


RART HI- SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2295 


3 


2 

4 

5 

6 
Longth of deletions : 67 -37 m . 
Length of approved replacement : 7 . 66 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3479 -88 m . in 15 reels . 


B /71110 


With triangle mark . 


“ The Summertime K11- 2799 - 81 (11) Sir Ganesh Prasad Antonio 
ler " (Revised ) (Eng 

Movios , C /o Asia 
ligh ) ( Colour) (35mm ) 

Films, 315 /G , New 
(Rome) 

Charni Rd. , Bombay - 4 . 


3237 
31-8 -74 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 2812 -83 m . 
The original version of the film (B /69354 ) wag refused a certificate for public exhibition . 

Cut Roel 
No. No. 


1. I In the protitla sequence, delete repeat shot of the hero s fathor 

pushed down tho stops and the second shot of his head going 
under water . . . . . . . . 

2 - 74 
2 . 

In the train scquence , delete the second shot of shooting by the horo 
and the second shot of gangster falling . . 

2 . 44 m . 
3 . II Reduce impact of killing of the third gangster in Rome . 

0 - 30 m . 
(Length retained : 0 .61 m . ) 
4 . IX Delete the end portion of Ray and Tania in bed including the 
removal of strap of brassiers . . . . . 

4 .88 m2 
Reduce considerably dragging of dead bull 

1 .83 m . 
(Length retained : 0 . 91 m .) 
6 . x Delete the last portion of the scene whon tho head of a man 

clinging to the running motor - cycle is bashed against the wall 
of a bridge . . . . 

1 .83 m . 
7 . XI Modify the superimposed titlo at the end to remove the in 

pression that he was sentenced to throo years only as this puni 
shment is not adequate . 
( This has been modified by stating that RAY WAS FINALLY 

CAUGHT BY THE POLICE AND IMPRISONED ) 
Length of deletion : 14 .02 m . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesald deletions will be 2799 -81 m . 
" Indian Nows Reviow 200 . 00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt, Film Division Bom 
No . 1350 - A " (Eng of India 24 Poddar bay -26 . 

certificate 
ligh ) and Hindi) 

Road , Bombay - 26 . 
(35 m .) . 

30 - 8 - 74 


B /72460 


ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 


B /72785 
Film : " Your Family s Best Friend " (English ) 
This certificato is also valid for Hindi vorsion of the film in colour . 

The longth of the film remains unchangod . 
This certificate was endorsed on 25th August, 1974 . 


B /72819 -21 
Film : " Mother Care " (English ) 
U - Cort. No. 75220 of 26 -6 -1974 

This cortificate is also valid for Tamil, Telugu and Kannada versions of the film in colour. 
The longth of the film remains unchanged . 

This cortificato wag ondorsed on 26th August, 1974 . 
B /72813 
Film : " The Camora " ( English ) 


2296 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III. Sec. 4 


2 


3 


in colour. 


U -Cort . No. 75219 of 26 -6 -1974 

This cortificate is also valid for Tamjl version of the Alm 
The longth of the film romains unchangod , 
This cort {ficato was ondorsod on 26th August , 1974 . 


B /72808 - 12 
Film : " Chand Ka Pukda " (English ) 
U - Cort . No, 75284 of 11 -7 - 1974 . 

This cortificate is also valid for Tamil, Telugu , Malayalam , Kannada and Hindi versions of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remains unchanged . 
This cortificato was endorsed on 26th August , 1974 . 


B /72596 
Film : " Triniurti " (Hindi) 
U - Cert. No. 75525 of 1- 8- 1974 . 
Roel No. IX Deleted various shots 0 - 91 m . Reel No . XIV Deleted various shots 9 .75 m . 
XIII Deleted various shots 13 .41 m . 

XV Deleted varlous shots 17 .07 m . 
Length of doletiong : 41 14 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 4268 : 73 m . 

This certificate wag endorsed on 26th August , 1974. 
B /72790 -95 . 
Film : “ Rang Moin Aiya " (Hindi) ( Colour ) 
U - Cort . No. 75531 of 6 -8 - 1974 . 

This certificato is also valid for Marathi, Gujarati, Telugu , Tamil, Kannada and Malayalam versions of the film 
in colour. 
The longth of the film renaing unchanged . 
This cortificate was ondorsed on 28th August, 1974. 


B / 72788 -89 
Film : " His Name is Today " (English ) (35 mm . ) 
U . Cert . No. 75594 of 14 -8 - 1974 . 

This cortificate is also valid for Hindi and Marathi versions of the film . 
The longth of the film romains unchangod . 
This certificate was endorsed on 29th August, 1974. 


B /72283 
Film : " Doosri Soota " (Hindi) (Colour ) 
U - Cert . No. 75196 of 24 -6 -1974 . 
Rool XII Deleted various shots : 79 . 80 m . 

XII Added various shots : 73 :15 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesald alterations will be : 3000 -82 m . 
This certificate was endorsed on 30th August , 1974 . 

CALCUTTA 


C / 8088 


P8A 


U 
73480 


Paschin Banga Sür - 
karer Sangbad Chitra 
No, 60 (Nowsrool) 
(Bengali ) 35 mm . India 


Panna Son P8A , B . K . Dept. of Information , 

Paul Avogue , Cal- Govt. of W , Bongal — 
cutta . 

Writors Buildings, 
Calcutta . 


24 - 8 - 74 


C /8077 


Tinti Padakhyop (Bon - 
- - gali ) (35 mm . ) India 


24R 


Do . 


U 
73481 


Grafilm s 72C 24, R , 
Rustainjeo St. Cal 
cutta . 


27 - 8 - 74 


PART III - SBC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) 


2297 


3 


5 


C / 8082 


73482 


Trallor of Ngak - E 
Konangse (Manipur) 
India 


Pundam Pictures . 
Manipur. 


Punnam Pictures Basant 

Manipur. 


27 - 8 - 74 


C /8085 


73483 


Silont Sorvice (Eng - 
lish ) ( Colour) 35 
mm . Tadia . 


487 -68 ( 2) Image India Filnis P . Image India Films P. 

Ltd , 9 /4 , Lovelock Ltd , 
Place , Calcutta - 29 . 


27- 8 - 74 


C / 8076 


U 
73484 


Rosos And Thorng 
(English ) 35 mm . 


443 48 ( 2 ) Atul Sarmah Clo Oll Atul Sarmah , 

India Ltd , Duliajan , 
Asgam . 


29 -8 -74 P .E . 
U 
73485 


C /8080 


Progress Through Re- 
soarob (English ) 35 
mm . India . 


585 21(2 ) Ashig Mukherjee Look Contral Mechanical 

Publicity 3 , c . R . Engineering Research - 
Avenue, Cal- 13 . 

Institute , Durgapur 


29 - 8 - 74 


U 


C /8083 -84 


73486 


Kolkata Badlate Cha . 
locho (Bongall), (Eng 
11gh ) 35 mm . India . 


548 64 (2) Contemporary Films Contemporary Filnis. 

385- a , Block G Now 
Aliporo, Calcutta -53. 


29 - 8 - 74 


C / 8087 


Rakta (Blood ) (Ben - 2433 -60 ( 7) 
gall) 35 min . India . 


Մ 
73487 


C . Dasgupta Produc - C . Das Gupta Produc 
tions 385 - A , Block tions, 
G New Alipore , 
Calcutta - 53. 


29 -8 -74 


U 


C / 8081 


73488 


Pratibimba (Bengali) 2894 .08 ( 11 ) Nandan Chitrani, 48 , Sharan Dey . 
35 mm Indla . 

Chandra Mandal Lane, 
Calcutta - 26 . 


29 - 8 - 74 


C /8086 


U 
73489 


Davi Choudhuraat 3979 . 78 (15) Sanchayita Films 58 / Dinen Gupta 
(Bongali ) 35 mm . 

82A , Princo Anwar 
Road , Calcutta -45 . 


13 - 8 - 74 


MADRAS 


M /8833 


*Unnaithan Thambi" 3964 -83( 16) Geetha Chitra, Geetha Chitra , 67694 With Cuts. 
( Tamil ) 35 mm . 

Madras . 

Madras . 
B & W India . 

26 - 8 - 74 
Endorsement on cort. No, 67694-U dt . 26th August 1974 isguied to the film Unnaithan Thambi (Tamil) 

Longth applied . 3987 -37 Metres . 


Cuts 


Reel 
1 
4 


Mts . 
0 -91 


2 . 


64 - 30 


3. 


7 . 


Delate tho display of Nirodh in the hands of the man in hotel 
Delete the shots ofmidriff, bare legs , geen In parts , of the 

singers . 
(b ) all shots inside tho bathroom , the girl in the bath -tube, 

outside the bath -tub , and all tho actions of Kumar with the 

Singor . (Replaced approved shots 64 . 30 ) . . . 
Delete the word Arangotram uttered by the cook and kumar 
( Sound) . 
Delete Manorama s words Aymbathil Illaya ? . . . . Ezhuvathia 
arllum Irukkadhu . . . . upto " Theriyum and the words referring 
to corruption boing Provalont lo other States . . . . 
Reduce molestation soquenco to a flash , deleting action of 
Kumar s toaring Lalitha s blouse and his lying over her in the 
cot, both in the long and close -shots 


12 .49 


5. 


13 


9 . 14 


Total 


. 


86 . 84 


Total roplacamont 64 - 30 Mts . 
Actual leagth will be 3964 . 83 Metres in 16 reels. 


U 


M /8796 


67695 


Anbu Thangal ( Tamil 3981 00 ( 16 ) Gowri Arts Enter - Gowri Arts Enter - 
(35 mm ) B & W 

prises , Madras. priss , Madrag. 
(India ). 


28 - 8 - 74 


2298 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 2 . , 1897) (PART III - SEC . 4 


2 . 


U 


M /8835 


Dhana vanthulu Gu. 3863 53 (15) Devi Arts , Maciras Dovi Arts, Madras 67696 With cuts , 
navanthulu (Telugu ) 
(35 mm ) . B & W 

28 - 8 - 74 
( India ) , 
Endorsement on Cort, No. 67696 - U Dated the 28th August 1974 isgued to the film Dhan vanthulu Gunavanthulu ( Telugu ) 
35mm . B & W 
Longth applied 3866 -87 metros. 
Cuts . Rool 

Motros 
1. 10 From the ploturigation of the song beginning with the words 

" You glagula dhwaneo " delet tho following : 
(1 ) Nagu (in the guise of Raja ) holding the raises log of 
Madhuri against the song line " Yee tafunam jari Peradu " , 
(Replaced insort of Rajk 1 : 22 ) 

1 . 22 
( b ) Maduri kooping her log on the swing stretching it in a 

ralsed posture. (roplaced oil painting Insert 1 . 22) , . 1 : 22 
( c) the guggestive kigging between Madhuriand Nagu on bed 
after the end of thosong 

1 . 22 
(d ) from the song text, delete the following lino , . . 1 52 
" Mana mana sattuya choodamu 

5 .78 

Total , . - - - 
Total roplacoment 2 . 44 motres. 
Actual length of the film will be 3863 ·53 metres in 15 reels 


U 


M /8859 


36 . 57(1) jogoy Designers , Co- jegoy Designers, 
chin . 

chín , 


Co 


Angel Form (Mala - 
yalam ) (35 mm ). 

B & W ( India ) . 


67697 


31 -8 - 74 


U 


M /8872 


Nalla Paadam 
(Tamil) (35 mm .) 
B & W ( India ) 


833 . 90 ( 3) Merak Private Ltd ., Marak Private Ltd ., 
Madras. 

Madras . 


67698 


31- 8 -74 P . E . 


U 


M / 8862 


Enterprises, 


* Adapillala 
( Telugu ) 
B & W 


Enterprises, Sathya 

Madras. 


67699 


Thandri 4302 -85( 16) Sathya 
( 35 mm .) 

Madras . 
(India ) 


31- 8 -73 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


(Sd / - A . K . SARKAR ) 

For Chairman 
Central Board of Film Censors 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PRINTED BY THE MANAGRR , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRBRO , PARDADAD 
AND PUBLISHAD BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELA , 1975 


