REGISTERED No. D. 222 


Wilt ©alette 



*r?*rfr* ~s[ 



PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


Irtbia 


No. 7] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1959/MAGHA 25, 1880 

NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gaietbet of India Extraordinary were published upto tiie 6th February, 1959:— 


Iuue No. end date Iuued by Subject 

No. 


14 No. l/ETC(PN)/59, dated 6th Febru- 

ary, 1959. 

15 No. 9-ITC(PN)/59, dated 6th Febru- 

ary, 1969. 


Ministry of Commerce and Industry. 

Do. 


Export of monkeys for medical research etc — 
procedure for regulating. 

Import for licences Issued to Established Ex- 
porter, under the Export Promotion 
Scheme— Bond condition on—. 


Copie* of the Gazettes extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to th e Manager of Publication,. 
Civil Line*. Delhi. Indent, stiould be lubmltted to a, to retch the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazette*. 


CONTENTS 


Par t I— Sbotion i.— Notification* relating to 

Non-Btatutory Rules, Regulation, and Order, 
and Resolution, luued by the Ministries 
of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and 
by the Supreme Court} . . • 

Pant I — Srotion a.— Notification, regarding 
Appointment,, Promotion,, Leave, etc. 
of Government Officer, Usued by 
the Ministries of the Government of 
India (other than the Ministry of 
Defence) and by the Supreme Court . . 


Pa»T I Sbction 3.— Notification, relating 

to Non-Statutory Rule,, Regulation,, 
Order, and Resolution,, issued by the 
Ministry of Defence . , . • • 

Pa* T I— SacmoN 4.— Notification, regarding 
Appointment,, Promotion,, Leave, etc, 
of Officer,, inued by the Miniitry of 

Defence 

Part II— Srotion 1.— Acts, Ordinance, and 
Regulation, 

PART II— Srotion a.— Bill, and Report, of 
Select Committee, on Bill* . 

Part II — Section 3. — Sua-Sicncm (i) — General 
Statutory Rules (including order,, bye-lawi 
etc., of a general character) iwued by the 
Ministries of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations 
of Union Territories) • 


Part n— Srotion 3— Subnotion (Ity— Statutory 
orders and notifications usued by the Minis- 
tries of the Government of India (othCT than 
the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration* of 
Union Terri toriea) .* 


Pages 

61 

81 

Nil 

35 

Nil 

Nil 


269 

383 


Pa*t II — Srotion a. — S tatutory Rule, and 

^ Order, notified oy the Ministry(of Defence * 

HI — Suction i. — N otification, issued by 
the Auditor General, Union Public Service 
Commission, Railway Administration, High 
Courts, and the Attached and Subordinate 
Office, of tbr Government of India 
(Published at Sir,, la) ..... 

Pabt III — Section a. — Notification, and Notice, 
iraued by the Patent Office, Calcutta 
( Published at Simla) 

Part III — Section 3. — Notification, I«»ued 

by or under the authority of Chief 

Commissioner? ( Published at Simla) • 

Part III — Section 4. — Miscellaneous Noti- 

fication, including notifications, orders, adver- 
tisement and notice, iwued by Statutory 
Bodies ( Published at Simla) . , , 

Part IV — Advertisement, and Notice* by 

Private individual, and Private bodies. 
( Published at Simla) 


Supplement No. 6 — 

Reported attack, and death, from cholera, ■ mail- 
pox, plague and typhus in district, in India 
during week ending 17th January, 1959. 

Birth, and death, from principal dUease, In 
town, with a population of 30,000 and 
over in India during week ending 17th 
January, 1959. 


Paou 


185 


39 


163 


31 


27 


81 


84 


( 61 ) 


62 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, FEBRUARY H, 1959/MACHA 'D. 1880 [Pari I-Sec. 1 


PART I— Section 1 

Notifications relating to Non-Statutory Rules, Regulations and Ordeis and Resolutions issued 
by the Ministries of the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by 

the Supreme Court 


MINISTRY or HOME AFFAIRS 

A Vie Delhi, the tilh February 1959 

No. 44/i3/58-Poll(I).— -The following statement showing the number of persons in detention under the Preventive OetriUion Act, 1930 
4 of 1950), in various States as on the 31st Dec-ember, 1958, is published for general information ; — 


No. of persons in deteuLjun under the Preventive 
Detention Art, 1990, on the 31st December, 1958 

Name of the State — — — — — — ■ - — — • Grand 

Total 

Detained under section Detained 1 

;j(i)(n) under 

— ■ — ■ — — — — — ■ — - — - — • — — — — Section 

'lfi)(bi 

Clause (7) Clause mi Clause (tit) Total ol 

Cols, a - 4 


•1 


a , r, I) 7 


1 . Andhra Pradesh 
a. Assam 
Bihat 

4. Bombay 

5. Kerala 

0. Madhya Pradesh 
7. Madras 
It. Mysote 
ci, Orissa 
10. Punjab 
It. Rajasthan 
is. Uttar Pradesh 
i'j. West Bengal 

1 4, Delhi 

15. Himachal Pradesh 
1 G, Manipur 

17. Tripura 


■ 1 - . 1 

1 a . . :1 

a I , . h 

* • * !1 

• ') - ■ 'J 

I . . I 

' . yi 

•4 . . J T 


I 


1 


.V-* 


I’otai, 3 Bf) 71 1 7 2 


N. S AH GAT,, Jt. Scry. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department ol Economic Affairs) 

RESOLUTION 

New Delhi, the 5 Lh February 1959 

No. F.22(G)-NS/58.— Srat. Sliardtt Parith, whose resignation 
iiotti the membership of the Bombay State Advbory Board 
Women’s Savings Campaign was announced in the Ministry ol 
Finance (Dcpailmcnt of Economic Affairs) Resolution No 
h 22 (f’VNS/58, dated tile 15th December, 1958, is re-nomlnat- 
ctl a Membei ol that Board. 

4. .Nml , K.mihi Beni tral and S1111. V Al. Kavl.t, Vm- 
( .Tmlnnan and Member respect nely of (lie Rajasthan State 
Advisory Board ol the Women's Savings Campaign have. 
1 esigned. 

K SARAN, Uudci Sccy. 

MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 
RESOl.t HON 

Wir Delhi, 'the It/,/ l fhritur\ I '*59 

No. 9(5)/57-SaIt.— Slni k. Ramaswamv Naidu, ,’1/riK, Fiic-ln 
Road. Ramanathapuraui Coimbatote. has been appointed as 
a raember of the Madras Regional Board lor sail , ’ire Shn (. 
Ramanujan resigned 

Order 

Ordered that this Resolution be communicated to all Stale 
Governments, all Ministries of the Government of Todia, Plan- 
ning Commission. Cabinet -Secretariat and Prime Minister’s 
Secretariat. 


4. Oidercd also that the Resolution he published in the 
( ait/el lc ol India, Part I Set tion I. 

P JOIIARI, lb, Set v 


Xew Delhi, the 6th February 1959 

No. 1I-SS1 (B) (3)/56.— 111 puiHiianee of bye-law 1" of the 

Registered Byelaws ol the Family Welfare Co-uptTRfire Indus 
trial Society Ltd. Yi|,ivawada. the Govemmenl of India here 
by e'tlend- the teiiii of the Committee constituted in tins 
Mlnisll y \ Notiluatiou No. 1 1 -LI (B) (3)/”*6. dated tlie a 1 1 1 
June. 1957. opto and including the .’list fanuurv, 1959. 

No. 1 1 -SSI (H) (3)/5(i.— In pursuance ol live-law 17 of the 

Registered By-laws ol the I-amilv Welfare. Co-opei.tuve |udu- 
liial Sonet) Uni., Vij.nawada, the Govemmenl oi India here- 
in nominal c.s with rflect from tin- 1st February. 1959, and uplo 
and including Ihe I7lh May, 1956, the Managing Comniitlee 
of the said sorieri. and directs that Jl shall musist of the 
following lUrinhvis. ’ namely. - 

1. Slnimati C. k 1 ish 11,1 Rao, Chairman, Andhra 

Pradesh Social Welfare Advisors Boartl. Hyderabad. 

4. Kumari J. Janmiuna Bai. Director, Womens Welfare, 

Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad. 

Shriman I nrlapali (unakamma. C/ o Slut I Nitfuaina- 
juuajulu. Salvanarayaiiapurani. Vijayawada. 

t. Mrs. Ilauga ru Raju, C/o Chief Engineer. Cement 
Fat lory. Vijayawada, iKrishna District). 

5. Alls. Susecla Devi, C/o Mylavaram Zammdaiy Satya 

naravanapuram Vijayawada (Krishna Dlstrtci). 

6. Mrs. Auathayya Salyanatavanapuiam, Vijayawada. 

(Krishna Disrt.). 



Part I-Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY II, I959/MAGHA 25, 1880 


63 


7. Mrs. Subbalaxmi, C/o Burmah Shell Inspector, 
Satyauarayanapuram, Vijayawada. (Krishna Distt.). 

8. Shri Mutyala Suiyanarayana Murty, B.Sc. Patch Papiah 

Road, Gandhinagar, Vijayawada. 

9. The Deputy Registrar of Cooperative Societies, 

Vijayawada. 

1(1. The Assistant Director of Industries and Commerce, 
Government ol Andhia Pradesh, Vijayawada. 

11, Director, Small Industries Service Institute, Hyderebad. 

N. S. VAIDYANATHAN, Under Secy. 

(Olhcc of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 
NOTICE. 

Wit' Delhi, the bth February 1959 

No, CCI/SPE/AI-IV/CELL/5/59.— It is hereby notified 
that in exercise ol the powets conferred by clause 9 of the 
hnpotls (Control) Order, 1955, the Government of India, m 
xhe Ministry of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel 
Licence No. A 9I2477/5R/AI ,'CCI/HQ dated Gth Deteinbct 
I95H valued at Us. K.7.50 for the import ol Pump Calibrating 
Machine, Mathematical & Drawing Instruments, Cellnlost 
Vdhesive Tape and Slide Rule? from the Soft Curcncv Aiea 
i-xiept South Alrica, granted by the Chicl Controller of 
Imports Sc Exports, New Delhi, to Messrs. The Registrar, Ring 
Edward Research Institute, Near Railway Station, Sahaianpur 
U.P. unless sufficient cause against this is furnished lo the 
Chief Controller of Impoils & ExporLs, New Delhi within 
ten days of the date of issue of this notice, by the said 
Messrs. The Registrar, King Edward Research Institute. 
Near Railway Station, Saharanpur U.P. or any Hank or am 
other party, who may be interested in it. 

Z In view of what is stated above Messrs. The Registrar 
king Edward Research Institute, Near Railway station 
Saharanpur U P- or any Bank, or any other party, who ui.k 
tie interested in the said licence No. A 9I247//58/AU/CCI . 
HQ dated firli Dix ember 1958 are hereby directed not to 
enter into any ( ommitments against the said licciue and 
return it immediately lo the Chief Conttoller of Imports ;.nd 
Exports, New Delhi 

x N. fill. (, RAMI. Chief Coinr-dlei. 
of Imports anil Exports 

MINISTRY Or SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAI 
AFFAIRS 

Wir Delhi, the fth February 1959 

hi the matter of Nagar Education Endowment Trust l ppei 
India, Lucknow. 

No. F.12-8/58-C.I— Whereas an application has been made 
'through, the Government of U.P. by the committee ol 
management of the Nagai Education Endowment Trust, 
Upper India, Lucknow, that the securities specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed be vested under the designation of 
the said Trust ill the Treasurer of Charitable Endowments 
for India to lie applied in trnsL upon the terms contained in 
Ihc scheme of administration of the Trust published by the 
Government of Uttar Pradesh in their notification No. 798/ 
XX-385-1924, dated 20tli October, 1925: 

Now, therefore, in exenise ol the powers eonfcircd by the 
"tub-section (1) of section 1 of the Charitable Endowments 
Act. 1890 (6 ol 1890) the Central Government hereby directs 
that the security specified in the schedule hereto annexed 
•shall he vested in the Treasurer of Charitable Endowments 
lor India upon the terms of the said Schedulc. 

T he Schedule 

P O. National Saving Certificate issued by the Post Other. 

Aiuiiiahad Park, Lucknow in favour of the Nagar Educa- 
tion Endowment Trust. Upper India. 

No, F/O 25114 (Ret. No, 105) for Rs. 1,000. 

K. P. KABINDRANATHAN, Under Sets 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 
(Department ol Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

RESOLUTION 

AVic Delhi, the 4 th February 1959 

No, 6-MT (33)/58.— In partial modification of the Ministry 
of Transport & Communications, Department of Transport 
(Transport Wing). Resolution No. 6-MT (33)/58, dated the 
15th December, 1958. the Central Government has been 
pleased to appoint Shri L. W. Balcombc, a representative <>! 
the Calcutta Liners' Conlercnce (Crews), Calcutta, to be a 
inumber of the National Welfare Board for Seafarers vice 
Shri M, R. Da*, resigned. 


OitDFK 

Ordered that a copy of this Resolution be communicated 
to the Private Militaty Secretaries to the President, the Prime 
Minister's Secretariat, the Cabinet Secretariat, the Planning 
Commission, Lhe Ministries of the Government of India, all 
the State Governments, the Port Trusts, Bombay and Madras. 
Lite Port Commissioners, Calcutta, the Cochin Harbour 
Authority, the Visakhapatnam Port Authority and the Director 
General of Shipping, Bombay. 

Ordeied also that the Resolution be published in the 
Gazette of India for general Information. 

NACENDRA SINGH. Jt, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION A- BROADCASTING 

RESOLUTION 

New Delhi -2, the a til Febi utiry 1959 

No. 1/2U/58-FP.— In supersession oL the Resolution ot the 
( -ovei imient of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No. 1/51/54-F, dated the 2nd February, 195:5, 
the following rules arc notified in regard to the working ol 
lhe Ilhn Advisory Board at Bombay and the approval of 
hhn.x as scientific films. films intended for educational pur 
poses, films dealing with news and current events and docu 
menury films in accordance with the directions issued by 
tfie Central Government under sub-section (4) of section 12 
ol the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952) and by the 
carious State Governments under the corresponding Stale 
Laws. These rules shall romc into tone with effort from 
\Ioiidjv, the 16lh February. 19.59. 

RULES 

I lhe function of the Film Advisor* Board shall hr lo 
make recommendations to the Central Government regal d 
mg the suitability of films for approval as scientific films, 
films intended for educational purposes, films dealing with 
news and current c-\ rots or documentary films in aaotdame 
with ihc directions issued by the Central Government undet 
suh-section (1) of section 12 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 
(37 of 1952) and by Lhe Slate Governments undei the 
i nrrrspouding State Laws. 

2. The Hoard shall consist ol not less than seven membeis 
as follows:— 

(a) Chairman oi the Central Konid of Film Denson - 
Ex-Offirm Chairman 

lb) Regional Officer of die Central Hoard of Film Censors, 
Bombay - -Ex-Officio Member, 

(O A member of the Advisory Panel ol tin* Central 
Board of Film Censors, at Bombay, nominated by 
lhe Central Government. 

ul) Not less than four other members, including at icasr 
ouc person with knowledge of (dins and fiUu-inakijig 
arid one educationist, nominated by the Central 
Coveunnenl 

Explanation— 'lhe Additional Regional Officer oi the 
Assistant Regional Officer shall act a* an ex-officio member 
in any meeting ol the Board which the Regional Officer 
docs not attend, 

3. Members othei than the rx-offirio members shall hold 
office for a period of one year 

4- Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 3, the Cell 
rral Government may at any time terminate the membership 
of any member of the Board before the expiration of the 
period specified in that rule. 

5. The Regional Officer of the Cential Board of Film Cen 
sors at Bombay shall he the Secretary of the Board. 

(i. The uon-oflicial members ol the Board may be paid 
such travelling allowance for attending meetings ol the Board 
as the Central ( .ovcmnicrit mas. from time to time, detei 
mine. 

i. No ael m proceeding of the Board shall lie called in 
ipicstion on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy 
in nr defect in the constitution of the Board, 

H. Meetings of lhe Hoard shall he presided over ijy tfie 
Chairman, and, in Iris absence, bv a member eleurri by the 
members present ftom amongst themselves. 

9 The quorum of the Board shall lie three. 

10. The Board shall ordinarily meet once a week hut a 
meeting of the Board may he called In (he Chairman as often 
as he considers necessary. 

11. Any person, desiring the Boa id to consider the suita 
bility of any film for the purpose specified in rule I shall 
send an application in writing to the .Secretary of the hoard 
stating the title of the film, its length, the name of the pro 
durer and such othei particulars as mas be required by the 
Board. 



«4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 14, 1959/MAGHA 25, 1880 


[Part I— Sec. 1 


Films with lengths exceeding 2,000 feet in 35tnm will not 
be entertained by the Board lor the purpose o £ these rules. 

12. After examination of the film by the Board, the opinion 
of each member present shall be recorded ai to whether: - 

(a) the film is suitable for approval as a scientific film, 
film intended for educational purposes, film dealing 
with news and current events or a documentary film; 
or 

(b) the film would bo suitable for approval In any 
specific category on carrying out specified excisions oi 
modifications therein; or 

(c) the film is not suitable for approval as a film tn anv 
of the said categories. 

13. The opinion of the Board shall be in accordance with 
the opinion of the majority of the members present at the 
meeting and, in the event of a tie, in accordance with the 
♦pinion of the presiding officer. 

14. (a) If the opinion of the Board is that the film is 
suitable for approval as a scientific film, a film intended tor 
educational purposes, a film dealing with news and 
current events or a documentary film, the Chairman shall 
make a recommendation to the Central Government in 
accordance with the opinion of the Board. 

(b) If the opinion of the Board is as in clause (b) ot 
clause (c) of rule 12, the Chairman shall communicate the 
♦pinion ♦f the Board to the applicant in writing and specify 
a date, not later than seven days fiom such communication, 
within which he may, if he so desires, make a representation 
against the opinion of the Board. 

(c) On expiry of the date so specified or on receipt of the 
representation, the Chairman shall make a recommendation 
to the Central Government in accordance with the opinion 
♦f the Board and forward the representation made by the 
applicant, to the Central Government. 

(d) If the applicant agrees to carry out the excisions oi 

modifications specified by the Board, the Chairman shall, aftet 
satisfying himself that such excisions or modifications are 
mrrled out, forward the recommendation of the Board to the 
Central Government. * 

15. On receipt of the recommendation of the Board, the 
Central Government may, after considering the representation, 
it any, made under sub-rule (b) of rule 14 and such enquiry 
as it may consider necessary, approve the film as suitable in 
any category specified in rule 1 or pan such orders in the 
matter ap it deems fit. 

16. Films approved by the Central Government in any ot 
the categories specified in rule 1 shall be notified in tne 
Caret te of India, together with the name of the applicant, 
the title of the film, the name of the producer and the 
length of the film as approved and its category, 

R. K. RAMA DHYANI, Secy 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING & SUPPLY 

RESOLUTION 

iVrte Delhi, the SIst January 1959 

No. HH-5(27)/57-HIV-(ii)-— lo supersession of this Minis- 
try's Resolution No, HII-4 (8^/54, dated the 6th February, 
1956, regarding the constitution of a National Building 
Council to guide and ditect the activities of the National 
Buildings Organisation, it has been decided that until further 
orders, the Council shall be constituted as follows:— 

(I) President — Union Minister for Works, i lousing and 
Supply, 

(II) Members— 

(a) Ministers nominated by the States to be in charge 
of Housing in their respective States. 

(5) Ministry of Railways (Railway Board), New Delhi. 
Buildings Organisation, other than Chief Engineers 
ot the State Governments; these Chief Engineers may, 
however, if so desired by the Housing Ministers of 
their respective States, act as their alternates on the 
Council. 

(ct A representative each nominated by the Ministries of 
Transport tc Communications (Department of Trans- 
port) and Irrigation 8c Power. 


(d) Representatives, not exceeding ten in number, from 
amongst Engineers, Architects and Town Planners, 
not in the employ of the Central or the State Gov ■ 
eminent*, nominated by the Government of India. 

(c) Representatives, not exceeding eight in number, from 
amongst experts in the fields relating to Housing, 
nominated by the Government of India. 

(f) Two representatives nominated by the Government oi 
India from Trade Associations and Trade Unions. 

(Ill) Dilector, National^ Buildings Organisation will be Ex 
officio Member Secretary of the National Building Council 

Or»e* 

Ordered that a copy of the Resolution be communicated 

to:— 

(1) National Buildings Organisation, New Delhi. 

(2) Ministry of Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs, 
New Delhi. 

(S) Ministry of Irrigation fe Power, New Delhi. 

(4) Ministry of Health, New Delhi. 

(5) Ministry of Railways (Railway Board), New Delhi. 

(6) Ministry of Defence, New Delhi. 

(7) Ministry of Labour Ic Employment, New Delhi, 

(8) Ministry of Commerce ic Industry, New Delhi. 

(9) Ministry of Transport tc Communications (Depart- 
ment of Transport), New Delhi. 

(10) Ministry of Food Ic Agriculture, New Delhi. 

(11) Ministry of Finance (I. Ic W. Branch), New Delhi. 

(12) C, E,, Central Public Works Department, New Delhi, 

(13) Director General of Health Services, New Delhi. 

(14) Engineer- in-Chlef, Army Headquarters, New Delhi. 

(15) Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, New 
Delhi. 

(16) Director, C.B.R. I., Roorkee. 

(17) President. Forest Research Institute, Dehra Dun. 

(18) Ail India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, 
Calcutta. 

(19) Director, Indian Standards Institution, New Delhi. 

(20) All State Governments (Housing Secretaries). 

(21) F. A. (I It W). 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the 
Gazet(p of India for general information. 

R. F. ISAR, Jt. Secy 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT . 

RESOLUTION 

Neui Delhi, the 4th February 1959 

No. WB-6(12).— Consequent upon the death of Sim Som 
nath P. Dave, M.P., a member representing workers on the 
Central Wage Board for Cement Industry, the following 
amendment is made in para 2 of the Ministry of Labour and 
Employment Resolution No. WB-6(5), dated the 2nd April, 

Amendment 

"in Item (]) under the heading 'MEMBERS REPRESENT- 
ING WORKERS’ for Slirl Somnalli P, Dave, M.P., substitute 
Shri H. N. Trivedi.” 

Ok* mi 

Ordered that a copy of the Resolution be communicated: 
to: — 

(i) All State Governments and Union Territories. 

iii) All Ministries of the Government of India and the 
Planning Commission. 

(iii) All-India Organisations of Employers and Workers, 

Ordered also -that the Resolution be published in the 
Gazette nl India for general information. 

P. M. MENON, Secy. 



