REGISTERED N«. P 228 


Wxz ©alette 



of 


Inbia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 39] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1960ASVINA 2, 1882 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published uplo the 13th September, I960:— 


Issue No. and date 

No 


116, No. RS/3/60-L. dated the I2lh Sep- 
tember, i960. 

117 No. 108-ITC(PN)/60, dated the 

1 2th September, 1960. 

118 No; Ch(l)-7(5)/G0, dated the 13 lT 

September, i960. 

119 No. 37/1/T/60, dated the 14th 

September, 1960. 

120. No. 4( lOJ-W&M/fiO, dated the I4(h 
September, 1960. 


Issued by 

Rajya Sabha Secretariat 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry 

Do. 

Lok Sabha Secretariat 
Ministry of Finance. 


Subject 


The President prorogues the Rajya Sabha. 

Import of 'fruits’ all sorts, excluding coco- 
nuts and cashewnuts, frerih t dried, salted 
or preserved, n.o,s. and excluding dates. 

Decision to form the Cinema Carbons 
Advisory Committee. 

The President prorogues the Lok Sabha, 

Correction to Notification No. 4 (40)-W&:M/ 
60, dated 3rd September, 1960, 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of Publications, 
Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be submitted so as to reach the Manage! within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Ga7eLtes. 


CONTENTS 

Paobs Pages 


PART I. — Section i. — Notifications relating to Non- 
Statutory Pules, Regulations and Orders 
and RenolutioTis issued bv the Ministries 
of the Government -of India (other 
than the Miniatiy of Defence) and 
by the Supreme Court . . 215 

PART I f — Section a. — Notifications regarding 

Appointments, Promotion*, Leave, etc. 
of Government Officers issued by the 
Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) 



and by the Supreme Court 

59 r 

Part 

I. — Section 3. — Notifications relating to 

Non-Statutory Rules, Regulation*, 

Orders and Resolutions, issued by the 
Ministry of Defence .... 

9i 

Part 

I. — Section 4.— Notifications regarding 

Appointments, Promotions, Leave, etc. 
of Officers, issued by the Ministry of 
Defence ...... 

24 s 

PART II* — Section i. — Acts, Ordinances and Regu- 
lations ...... 

Nij 

Part 

II. — Section 2. — Bills and Reports of Select 
Committees on Bills .... 

NU 

Part 

II. — 'Section 3. — Sub-Section (i) — General 
Statutory Rules (including orders, bye- 
laws etc. of a general character) issued 
by the Ministries of the Government of 
India (other than the Ministry of Defence) 



and by Central Authorities (other than 

the Administrations of Union Territories) 1495 

PART II. — Section 3. — Sub- Section (ii). — Statutory 
Orders and notification! issued by the 
Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) and 
by Central Authorities (other than the 
Administrations of Union Territories) „ 2783 


P*rt IT. — Section 4* — Statutory Rules and Order# 

notified by Lhe Ministry ot Defence 179 

Pakt III. — Section i. — Notifications issued by the 
Auditor General, Union Public Service 
Commission, Railway Administration, 

High Courts, and the Attached and Sub- 
ordinate Offices of the Government of 
Tndia (Published at Stmla) . r 1533 

’art III. — Section a. — Notifications and Notices 
issued by the Patent Office, Calcutta 
( Published at Simla) , . 275 

j art III. — Section 3.— Notifications issued by or 
tinder the authority of Chief Commis- 
sioners (Published at Simla) _ . 79 

>A*r III. — Seotion 4. — Miscellaneous Notifications 
including notifications, orders, advertise- 
ments and notices issued by Statutory 
Bodies ( Published at Simla) . , . 463 

'art IV.— Advertisements and Notices by Private 
Individuals and Private bodies (Published 
at Simla) ...... 203 

SUPPLEMENT No. 37 — 

Reported attacks and deaths from Cholera, amall 

f i°X, plague and typhus in Districts in 
ndia during the week ending 27th August, 

J 9 6 ° 495 

firths and deaths from principal diseases in towns 
with a population of 30,000 and over in 
India during week ending 27th August, 
i960 498 


( 215 ) 


216 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1960/ASVINA 2, 1882 [Part I-Sec. I 


PART I— Section 1 


Notifications relating to Non-Statutory Rales, Regulations and Orders and Resolutions issued 
by the Ministries of the Goveminent of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by 

the Supreme Court 


PRESIDENT’S SECRETARIAT 

Nr to Delhi, the lbth September 19n0 

No. 51-Prcu./60.— The president is pleased fo await] the 
Police Medal for gallantry to the uiulernirniioucd officer of 
the And In a Piadesh Police: 

Name of the Officer and rank. 

Shri Kugarlapathi jagannadlu Raj u, Police Cun .stable 
No, 801, Visakhapatimm North District, Andhia Pm- 
desli, 

Statement of sendee s for which the detoratwa has been 

awarded. 

On the afternoon of the 7th September 1959, two sales- 
men of Lipton Tea Company Limited, were returning in a 
hired jutka io (heir headquarters in SrikakuJam niioi com- 
pletinjj their work in Villages on the opposite side uf the 
Badavingedda rivulet which crosses the road between the vil- 
lages of Mukhalingam and Roman apalli, Due to continuous 
rain the rivulet waa in flood and the water had risen some 
three feet above the causeway. 

The Lip ton represent* fives were anxious to get back to 
their headquarters before nightfall and the jutka driver also 
wished to get home, A a soon, however, as he drove the jutka 
on to the causeway it was overturned by the force of the 
current and the occupants were swept into the flood. The 
jutka driver was fortunately swept ashore by the current, At 
thia juncture, Police Constable Kugarlapathi Jagannadha Raju 
happened to paws that way and pulling off his shoes plunged 
into the raging torrent ami swam to one of the Salesmen who 
did not know how to swim. Constable Raju had great diffi- 
culty in avoiding the drowning man’s clinches but eventually 
managed to bring him safely ashore. Having done this he im- 
mediately swam back to the other Salesman who could swim 
a little but was hampered by a bag containing money which 
he zealously clutched and was struggling in the water. A 
local potter implied by Constable Raju’s example also jumped 
into the water and helped to bring the Salesman, with his 
money, to safety. 

In this incident, Constable Raju showed great courage and 
presence of mind and saved two lives at great danger to his 
•wn life, 

2. This award is made for gallantry under rule 4(1) of 
the rules governing the award of the Police Medal and conse- 
quently carries with It the special allowance admissible to 
officers of and below the rank of Inspector of Police as provid- 
ed in rule 5. 

No. 52-Pres./6U. ^Corrigendum to Notification No, 7-Pros., 
mblished In Part— I, Section— 1 of the Gazette of India (Extra- 
jrdinaxy) dated the 2lst June 1950:— 

'age 443. 

Read Jemadar Parwin Singh, 6 Bn. The J. Sc K. Infantry 
(Posthumous). 

Read Jemadar Parwin Singh, 6 Bn. The J. Sc K. Infantry 
(Posthumous). 

No, 53-Prefl./60,— The President is pleased to award the 
wlice Medal for meritorious sendee to Shri Bnual Chandra 
ioswami. Inspector of Police, Bihar. 

2. This award is made under rule 4(ii) of the rules govern- 
ig the award of the Police Medal. 

A, V. PAI, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

RESOLUTION 

New Delhi-11, the 1 4th September 1960 

No. 8/8/6G-5R (S).— In partial modification of the Ministry 
Home Affairs Resolution No. G2/22/56-SRTI dated the 20th 
iy f 1958 constituting the Ceutral Advisory Committee under 
^-section (5) of flection 115 of the States Reorganisation Act, 
ffi as amended by Resolution No. 8/9/59-SR (S) dated the 
h August, 1959, the Government of India hereby order the 
j.stitution of the following for sub-clause (il) of clause 2 
the Resolution first mentioned: 

(il) To make recommendations to the Central Govern- 
ment with a view to ensure that fair and equitable 
treatment is given to the service personnel of the 


following categories of State Sci vices wh,o are affected 
by States Reorganisation and to consider representa- 
tions submitted by: 

(a; Those belonging tu gazetted cadres prior to States 
Reorganisation; 

(b) Tli use who having belonged to non-gazeited cadres 
before Stares Reorganisation have been integrated 
or have represented for integration with those of 
category (a) above. 

L. P. SINGH, A dill. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 
RESOLUTION 

New Delhi , the 1 uLh September i960 

No. 4(3l)-VV&M/60.— The Government of India have made 
the following amendments to this Ministry's Resolution of 
even number dated the 27th August, 1960 which was published 
in an Extraordinary Issue of the Gazette of India, Part I~ 
Section 1. dated the 29th August, i960:— 

I. Under "(b) Local Committee to supervise the draw at 
Calcutta"— 

(a) In Item 14— 

Substitute "Nargin" for "Nath". 

(b) Item 16 to be substituted by— 

Shri R. K, Mitra. I.C.S. General Manager, Development 
Corporation, Government of West Bengal. 

(c) Item 17 to be substituted by— 

Shri S. B. Rav, LA.S. Add!. Development Commissioner, 
Government of West Bengal. 

(d) Item 19 to be substituted by— 

Shri H. S. Ghosh Choudhury, I.P. Inspector General of 
Police, West Bengal. 

II. In Item 18 under "(c) Local Committee to supervise the 
draw at Delhi/New Delhi"— 

Substitute— 

(a) "B. N. Malhotra" for "K. Deva Rao" and 

(b) "Assistant" for “Deputy". 

A, R. SH1RALI, Add], Budget Officer. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

ADDENDUM 

New Delhi , the 1 6th ^ eplember i960 

No. EEl-4(ll)/60.— The Government of India in their 
Resolution No. EEJ-4(ll)/60, dated the 27th July, I960, 
lecoimi tuted the Panel for Electronics and Wireless Equip- 
inent Industry. The following have also been included m 
Lhe Panel:— 

1. Shri N, V. Gadcdhar— Adviser, Wireless Planning and 

Co-ordination, Ministry of Transport and Communi- 
cations, New Delhi. 

2. Dr. B. H. Wadia— Representative of All India Council 

for Technical Education, New Delhi. 

3. Shri A, 5. Rao— Chief Scientific Officer, Department of 

Atomic Energy, Bombay. 

4. Shri R. K. Singh— Engineer Manager, Government Pre- 

cision Instruments Factory, Lucknow. 

5. Shri P N. Dcobhaki a— Development Officer (Electrical 

Engineering). 

Shri P. N, Deobhakta will act as Member-Secretary to the 
Panel. 

Ord KR. ro that a copy of above addendum be communicat- 
ed to all the State Govern men is, all Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India, Cabinet Secretariat, Prime Ministers' 
Secretariat. 

Ordered also that it be published in the Gazette of India. 

R. V. RAMAN, J t. Secy. 



Tart I— Sec 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 24, 1960/ASVINA 2, 1882 


217 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 


Order 


New Delhi , the 1 3th September 1960 

Central Advisory Board of Education 

No. F.1-7/60-SE.L— The following members have been 
^elected by the Lok Sabha to serve on the Central Advisory 
Board of Education with effect from the 6th September, 1960, 
for a period of three years:— 

(i) Shrimati Renu Chakravartty, M.P. 

(ii) Shri Harish Chandra Mathur, M.P. 

(iii) Shri K. V. Ramakrishna Reddy, M.P. 

VIKRAM SINGH, 
Assistant Educational Adviser. 


New Delhi, the 17 th September 1960 

Subject.— National Council for Rural Higher Education 

No. F.1-1/60-U.3.— In partial modification of the Ministry's 
Notification No. F.3-187/59-U3, dated the 2nd April, 1959 as 
subsequently amended by Notification No. F.1-8/59-U.3, dated 
3rd December, 1959 on the subject mentioned above, the 
following change in the composition of the National Council 
has been authorised. 

“Under para (b)5 —(Other officials), 

Shri S. V. Krishnan I.A.S., Deputy Secretary, Ministry of 
Community Development and Co-operation will in 
future represent that Ministry on the National 
Council for Rural Higher Education. 

K. R. RAMACHANDRAN, Dy. Secy. 


RESOLUTION 

New Delhi, the 9th September 1960 

Subject:— Composition of the All India Council for Elemen- 
tary Education. 

N©. F.28-15/60-B-4.— The following further amendments are 
hereby made in the Ministry of Education Resolution of even 
.number dated 26th April, 1960 as amended in subsequent 
-Resolution of even number dated 22nd August, 1960. 

In item (g) read “Seven educationists five of whom con- 
nected with the field of Basic Education, one with 
girls’ education and one with the education of Back- 
ward Classes” for '‘Three educationsts connected with 
the field of Basic Education, girls' education and 
education of backward classes, respectively”. 

Order 

Ordered that the Resolution be communicated to all Minis- 
tries of the Government of India, all the State Governments, 
Union Territories, Planning Commission, Cabinet Secretariat, 
Secretary, Central Advisory Board of Education, All India 
Council for Elementary Education and Comptroller and Auditor 
General of India. 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the Gazette 
of India for general information. 


P. N. KIRPAL, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION & POWER 

New Delhi, the 1 6th September 1960 

No. 55/10/60D.W.VI.— The following may be added as Item 
No. (iii) in para 4(1) of this Ministry's Resolution No. D.W. 
111-26(4) /58 dated the 19th December, 1958 and the existing 
<enteries No. (iii) to (vii) renumbered as (iv) to (viii):— 

'‘(iii) Joint Secretary, Mnistry of Irrigation Sc Power or 
an officer deputed by him to attend any particular 
meeting/* 


G. K. VIJ, Deputy Secy. 

RESOLUTION 

New Delhi, the 8 th September 1960 

No. l(l)/60-Policy— In the Government of India, Ministry of 
’Irrigation and Power Resolution No. 1 (7) /56- Policy dated the 
19th June, 1957, as amended from time to time, the following 
-amendments shall be made in the composition of the Co- 
ordination Board of Ministers: — 

For 8. Minister of Public Works, Bombay. Substitute 
8. Minister for Irrigation and Power, Maharashtra. 

For 18. Minister for Law, Kerala. Substitute 18. Minister 
for Food & Agriculture, Kerala. 


Ordered that this Resolution be communicated to all State 
Governments, all the Ministries of the Government of India, 
Prime Minister’s Secretariat, the Private and Military Secretaries 
to the President, Cabinet Secretariat, Parliament Secretariat, 
the Planning Commission and the Comptroller and Auditor 
General of India. 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the 
Gazette of India and that the State Governments be requested 
to publish it in the State Gazette for general information. 

T. R. BARKER, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION Sc BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 1 6th September 1960 

No. 24/1/60 FP.— In pursuance of the Resolution of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No. I/29/58-FP, dated the 5th February, 1959, 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri M. A. Razzaq, 
Member, Bombay Advisory Panel of Central Board of Film 
Censors, Bomba}, as a member of the Film Advisory Board, 
Bombay with effect from 14th September, 1960. 

S. PADMANABHAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi , the 14 th September I960 

No. P. F. 113(13)/59— In pursuance of para. 2 of the 
Resolution dated the 10th May, 1960, of the Ministry of 
Labour 8c Employment, appointing a Technical Committee to 
examine the question of enhancement of the rate of contribu- 
tion from 6 f per cent to 8-1/3 per cent under the Employee** 
Provident Funds Act, 1952. the Central Government hereby 
appoints the following experts to assist the Committee itt 
respect of the indus.ry mentioned against each of them: — 

i. Shri I. M, Mouhdin, 

Dalmia Cement Worker's Union, 

Dalmiapuram Cement 


2. Shri J. D. Harvey, 

Financial Accountant, 

The Imperial Tobacco Com- 
pany of India, Ltd., 

37, Chowrighee, Calcutta — 16 Cigarettes 

3, Shri Jagannadha Rao, President 

Indian National Trade Union 
Congress, Andhra Branch, 

24o/3rd, Vijayanagar Colony, 

Mallepalli, Hyderabad Cigarettes 


4. Shri R. D. Trivedi, Director, Electrical, mechanical 
M/S. Jeewanlal (1929) ^Ltd., or general engieering 
31, Netaji Subhas Road, products. 

Calcutta — 1. 


5 Shri V. V. Ranade, Electrical mechanical 

C o Indian National Trade Union j or geaeral enginee- . 
Congress — Bombay Branch, ring products. 

Sasson J. David Building, 27, 

2 Military Square, Lane, 

Fort, Bombay. 

6 Shri R. S. Pande, Iron and Steel 

Agent, The Tata Jxon'and Steel 
Company, Ltd., ^ 

Jamshedpur. 


7 Shri V. G. Gopal, Iron and Steel 

General Secretary 
Tata Worker’s Union, 

17, K. Road, 

Jamshedpur 

8 Shri iDhuleshwar Bastia, Paper 

Rourkela Mazdoor Sabha 1 
P.O. Rourkela, 

Orissa. 


9. Shri M. L. Zutshi Paper 

Shri Gopal Paper Mills Ltd., 


25, Brabourne Road, 
Calcutta — 1, 

fl o ; ^hri G. Ramanujam, 
Vice President, 

Indian National Trade 
Congress, 

3/66, Trichy Road, 
Coimbatore. 


Textiles, (made whol- 
ly or in part of 
Union, Cotton or Wool or 
Jute or Silk, 
whether natural 

or artifiirial). 


A. P. VEERA RAGHA VAN, Under Secy. 




