रजिस्ट्री से . डी .. 222 


16ISTIAL . . on 


सत्यमेव जयने 


- : 


. 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


- 


- 


सं0 43 ] 

No . 43] 


नई दिल्ली, शनिवार, अक्तूबर 24, 1970 ( कातिक 2, 1892 ) 
NEW DELHI , SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1970 ( KARTIKA 2, 1892 ) 


- 


- 


- 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके 
(Separate poging la siven to this part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation ) 


- -- - 


भागा - खण्ड 4 


(PART III - - SECTION 4) 


विधिक निकायों मारा जारी की गई विविध अधिसूचनाएं जिसमें अधिसूचनाएं , आदेश, विज्ञापन और सूचनाएं सम्मिलित हैं 
(Miscellaneous Notifications including Notifications , Orders, Advertisements and Notices 

issued by Statutory Bodies ) 


स्टेट बैंक आफ इंडिया 

ने पटना, शिलांग तथा भुवनेश्वर स्थित प्रादेशिक कार्यालयों के 
केन्द्रीय कार्यालय 

अपर मुख्य विकास अधिकारियों को , इसके अंतर्गत निर्दिष्ट की 

गई हस्ताक्षर करने की शक्तियों के उपयोग का अधिकार 
बम्बई , 30 सितम्बर 1970 

दिया है । 
सूचनाएं 

केन्द्रीय बोर्ड की कार्यकारी समिति के आदेश से , 
स्टेट बैंक आफ इंडिया , सामान्य नियमावली 1955 के 

टी० आर० वरदाचारी 
नियम 76( 1 ) के अनुसार केन्द्रीय बोर्ड की कार्यकारी समिति 

प्रबन्ध-निदेशक 
ने नई दिल्ली स्थित प्रधान कार्यालय के विदेशी मुद्रा विभाग 
के उप -अधीक्षक को इसके अंतर्गत निर्दीष्ट की गयी हस्ताक्षर 

प्रादेशिक कार्यालय : आसाम रीजन 
करने की शक्तियों के उपयोग का अधिकार दिया है । 

कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा निगम 
केन्द्रीय बोर्ड की कार्यकारी समिति के आदेश से , 

गौहाटी- 3, दिनांक 5 अगस्त 1970 
दिनांक 7 अक्तूबर 1970 

विज्ञप्ति 
स्टेट बैंक आफ इंडिया , सामान्य नियमावली 1955 के 

सं० ई- 17/ 10 - - एतद्द्वारा अधिसूचित किया जाता है 
नियम 76 ( 1 ) के अनुसार केन्द्रीय बोर्ड की कार्यकारी समिति कि कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा ( सामान्य ) विनियमन 1950 के 
M299GI/ 70 

( 1691 ) 


1692 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 ( KARTIKA 2, 1892 ) 


[ PART III----SEC. 4 


Re 


- 


- 


विनियम 10-ए ( ई ) के अंतर्गत 


1. श्री अनिलेश घोष , जनरल 

सेक्रेट्री , ए० एम० को० 
श्रमिक संघ और अध्यक्ष 
ध्रुवड़ी प्लाईवूड वरकर्म 
यूनियन , धुवड़ी । 


विनियम 10- ए के अंतर्गत आसाम रीजन में धुवड़ी के लिए 
इस कार्यालय के विज्ञप्ति सं० ई - 17/ 10, दिनांक 14- 11- 69 
से गठित स्थानीय समिति का निम्न प्रकार से पुनर्गठन किया 
गया है :---- 
अध्यक्ष : 
विनियम 10-ए ( ए ) के अंतर्गत ---- सिविल सर्जन , जिला गोल 

पाड़ा , धुवड़ी । 
सदस्य : 
विनियम 10-ए ( बी ) के अंतर्गत ---- श्रम अधिकारी, धुवड़ी । 
, , ( सी ) , प्रशासनिक चिकित्सा अधिकारी , 

कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा योजना , 

रेहवाड़ी, गौहाटी -8 । 
( डी ) , 1. श्री वी० एस० पटवर्धन , 

प्रबंधक , आसाम मैच कं० 

धुवड़ी । 
2. श्री धनराज शर्मा, प्रबंधक 
मेसर्स शंकर इंडस्ट्रीज, 
धुवड़ी । 


2. श्री अनिल कुमार मित्रा 

मजूमदार, सहायक मंत्री, 
गोलपाड़ा । डिस्ट्रिक्ट 
आयल एण्ड राइस मिल्स 
वरकर्स यूनियन, धुवड़ी । 


प्रबंधक, स्थानीय कार्यालय , 
कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा 
निगम , मंत्री । 


आज्ञा से 


विनोद कुमार सक्सेना 

प्रादेशिक निदेशक 


. 


Add the following explanation at the end of Rule 2 in 
Part III - A : 


“ The Course of instruction shall be by 7 regular 
attendance in institutions recognised by the Univer 


sity . " 


A. N . VEERARAGHAVAN 

Secretary 
Bar Council of India 


STATE BANK OF INDIA 

Central Office 
Bombay , the 30th September 1970 

NOTICES 
In pursuance of Regulation 76 ( 1 ) of the State 
Bank of India General Regulations, 1955 , the Executive 
Committee of the Central Board has empowered the Dy . 
Superintendent , Foreign Exchange Department , New 
Delhi Local Head Office , to exercise the signing powers 
spcified therein. 

By order of the Executive Committee of the 
Central Board . 

The 7th October 1970 
In pursuance of Regulation 76 (1 ) of the State 
Bank of India General Regulations, 1955 , the Executive 
Committee of the Central Board has empowered the 
Additional Chief Development Officers at the Regional 
Offices at Patna, Shillong and Bhubaneswar to exercise 
the signing powers specified therein . 

By order of the Executive Committee of the 
Central Board . 

T . R . VARADACHARY 

Managing Director 


THE INSTITUTE OF COST & WORKS ACCOUNTANTS 

OF INDIA 


Calcutta- 16 , the 29th September 1970 

( Cost ACCOUNTANTS ) 
No. 16 -CWR ( 36 ) / 70. - In pursuance of Regulation 16 
of the Cost and Works Accountants Regulations , 1959 , 
it is hereby notified that in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by clause ( b ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 20 of 
the Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959, the Council 
of the Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India 
has removed from the Register of Members, at own re 
quest , the name of Shri S . V . Kailasapathy, No . 4 / F , 
Tower Block , Nandanam, Madras- 35 , ( Membership No . 
45 ) , with effect from 1st April 1970 . 


THE BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 26th September 1970 
At the meeting of the Council dated 29th and 30th 
August , 1970 the rules of the Council in part III - A were 
amended is set out in the following resolution : 
RESOLUTION NO . 116B / 1970 

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Legal 
Education Committee under its Resolution No . 
12 / 1970 ( LE ) be accepted and the following amend 
ments in the Rules of the Council be and are hereby 
made. 


का 


The 1st October 1970 
No. 39 - CWA( 34 ) / 70 .- - - In exercise of the powers con 
ferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 39 of the Cost and 
Works Accountants Act 1959 , ( Act No . 23 of 1959) , 
the Council of the Institute of Cost and Works AC 
countants of India has made the following amendments 
in the Cost and Works Accountants Regulations, 1959 . 
the same having been previously published and approved 
by the Central Government as required by sub - section 
( 3 ) of the. said Section. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1693 


PART III — Sec. 41 


AI 


TI? 


In the existing Regulations, for the existing Chapter VII 

consisting of Regulations 52 to 70 , the following new 
Chapter VII and Regulations 52 to 704 shall be substi 
tuted , namely : 


CHAPTER VII 

ELECTIONS 
52 . Dates of Election . The following dates relating to 
the election of members to the Council , namely , the last 
date for the receipt of nominations , the last date for the 
withdrawal of nominations, the date or dates of polling, 
the last date for receipt of voting papers, by post, the 
date or dates of counting of votes, and the date of dec 
laration of results, shall be fixed by the Council and 
notified by it in the Journal of the Institute at least three 
months before the date on which the counting of votes 
commences . 


53 . Members eligible to vote .- ( 1 ) Every members of 
the Institute shall be entitled to vote in any election to 
the Council by the constituency to which according to his 
professional address he belonged on a date immediately 
six months prior to the date on which the list of members eli 
gible to vote in any election is published , provided that his 
name has been borne on the Register of Members continu 
ously for a period of not less than six months immediate 
ly prior to the date of publication of the list of members 
eligible to vote in that election and provided further that 
on 1st April of the year in which the election is held , his 
entrance fee , annual membership fee and other dues for 
and in respect of the previous year are not in arrears. 

(2 ) A member whose name stands removed from the 
Register of Members on the date on which he has to 
cast his yote shall not be entitled to vote at the election 
notwithstanding that his name has been published in the 
list of voters. 

54 . Qualifications of members to stand for election .” 
Only Fellows whose names are contained in the list of 
voters published under Regulation 56 and who are eligible 
to vote at the election , shall be eligible to stand for elec 
tion to the Council from the Regions in which their names 
are included . 

55 . Number of persons to be elected . The number 
of persons to be elected from a constituency shall bear 
the same proportion to the number of persons to be elect 
ed from all constituencies as the number of members of 
the Institute in that constituency bears to the number of 
members of the Institute in all constituencies, the re 
sultant fraction exceeding half being counted as one and 
the resultant fraction equivalent to or less than half 
being omitted : 


( iii ) the location of the polling booth and pol 

ling area for which each such booth has 

been selected ; and 
( iv ) whether any particular member is entitled 

to vote by post under Regulation 63N ; 
and shall send a copy thereof to each member of the 
Institute irrespective of whether he is a voter or not; and 
( b ) a notice in the Journal of the Institute men 

tioning the number of members to be elected 
and calling for nominations of candidates for 
election before a specified date which shall not 
be less than fourteen days from the date of 

publication of the notice . 
(2 ) The address published in the list of members 
eligible to vote will be final for determining the manner 
in which a member will be entitled to cast his vote or 
the constituency or the polling booth to which he will 
belong for purposes of casting his yote ; 

Provided that if a member attached to a particular 
polling booth in a city where more than one polling 
booth have to be set up , finds that it would be difficult 
for him to vote at the polling booth to which he is 
attached , he may , at the discretion of the Secretary , be 
permitted to vote at another polling booth in the same 
city . Applications in this behalf stating the reasons for 
the request must reach the Secretary at leas 45 days 
before the date of polling. 

57. Nomination of candidates.- - ( 1 ) Every nomination 
of a candidate shall be in Form K duly signed by the 
candidate and by the proposer and seconder , both of 
whom shall be persons entitled to vote in the election 
and shall be forwarded by registered post to the Secretary 
by name so as to reach him on or before the specified 
date , 

(2 ) Every candidate for election shall pay a fee of 
Rs. 200 which shall not be refundable in any circum 
șiances except as hereinafter provided : 

Provided that not more than one such payment need 
be made by any one candidate in respect of his candi 
dature for any one election : 

Provided further that in the event of his nomination 
ot being accepted as valid as hereinafter provided . the 
fee of Rs, 200 paid by him shall be refunded to him 
in full . 

58 . Withdrawal of candidature .- Any candidate may 
withdraw his candidature by notice in writing addressed 
to the Secretary by name and by registered post so as 
to reach him before 3 O clock on the seventh day suc 
ceeding the date fixed for the receipt of nomination 
papers. No person who has thus withdrawn his candi 
dature shall be allowed to cancel his withdrawal. The 
withdrawal of candidature shall be intimated by the 
Secretary to the other candidates standing for election in 
the constituency . Any candidate who withdraws his 
candidature in accordance with this Regulation will be 
entitled , on an application made by him in this behalf , 
to the refund of half the amount of fee deposited by 
him under Regulation 57 . 

59. Scrutiny of nominations.--- ( 1 ) The Secretary shall 
scrutinise the nomination papers of all candidates other 
than those whose candidature has been withdrawn under 
Regulation 58 and shall endorse on each nomination 
paper his decision accepting or rejecting it and if he 
rejects it, he shall record in writing a brief statement of 
his reasons for so rejecting it and shall communicate the 
same by registered post to the candidate concerned . 
( 2 ) The Secretary may refuse or reject any nomina 

tion if he is satisfied : 
( a ) that the candidate was ineligible to stand for 

election ; 


Provided that each constituency shall have at least one 
person elected therefrom to the Council . 


56 . List of voters . - - ( 1 ) At least three months before 
the date fixed for commencement of counting of votes 
in an election , the Council shall publish 
( a ) a list of members of the Institute in each consti 

tuency eligible to vote showing inter alia dis 
tinctly and separately 
(i) whether any particular member is an Asso 

ciate or a Fellow ; 
( ii ) the polling area or polling booth to which 

the voter is attached and in which he 
should exercise his franchise if the Secre 
tary decides that his voting shall be in a 
polling booth , and not by post, under the 
powers vested in him under Regulation 
63B ; 


1694 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[PART III - SEC . 4 


net 


SL 
- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( b ) that the proposer or seconder was not qualified 

to subscribe to the nomination of the candidate 

in Form K ; 
( c ) that there has been a failure to comply with any 

of the provisions of Regulation 57 ; 
( d ) that the signature of any candidate or of the 

proposer or seconder is not genuine or has been 

obtained by force or fraud ; 
( e ) that the candidate or the proposer or seconder 

has not paid any of the fees due and payable 
to the Council for and in respect of the year 
preceding the year in which the election is held ; 

or 
( f ) that on the date of scrutiny of the nomination 

the name of the candidate or the proposer or 
seconder stands removed from the Register of 

Members ; 
Provided that nothing contained in clause (b ) , ( c ) , 
( d ) , ( e ) or ( f ) shall be deemed to authorise the refusal 
or rejection of the nomination of any candidate on the 
ground of any irregularity in respect of a nomination of 
the candidate if he has been duly and validly nominated 
by means of another nomination in respect of which no 
irregularity has been committed . 


the Secretary shall commence fresh proceedings for the 
election of the remaining number of members to be 
elected from that constituency . 

63 . Admissible number of votes to euch voter . - Each 
voter shall have one vote only . A voter in giving his 
vote 
( a ) must place on his ballot paper the figure 1 in 

the square opposite the name of the candidate 

for whom he votes , and 
( b ) inay, in addition , place on his ballot paper the 

figure 2 or the figures 2 and 3 , or 2 , 3 and 4 
and so on , in the squares opposite the names 
of other candidates in the order of his 

preference . 
63A . Mode of Elections.-- Except as otherwise provid 
ed , the elections shall be conducted by poll and every 
voter in any election , shall cast his vote personally in 
the booth provided for the purpose , unless a voter is 
allowed in respecí of any election to cast his vote by 
post as hereinafter provided 


60 . Appeals . - A candidate whose nomination has been 
refused or rejected by the Secretary may within 10 days 
of the date on which such rejection or refusal is com 
municated to him , prefer an appeal to the Council . The 
appeal shall be heard by a Committee appointed by the 
Council for this purpose consisting of three persons who 
need not necessarily be members of the Institute , Mem 
bers of the Institute appointed on the Committee shall 
not be chosen from the candidates standing for election . 
The Committee so appointed shall have powers to inspect 
any documents , examine any witnesses , record any evi 
dence , receive affidavits , grant adjournments , and exercise 
such other powers as may be necessary for the efficient 
and faithful performance of the duties . The decision of 
the Committee shall be final. 


63B , Polling Booths. - - The Secretary shall set up such 
number of polling booths at such places as he deems 
necessary , provided that, within an area covered by a 
radius of eight kilometers from each booth , there are 
not less than fifteen members according to their protes 
sional address as given in the list of members eligible to 
vote . 

63C . Polling officer .- The Secretary shall appoint a 
polling officer for each polling booth and may also ap 
point such other persons as he may deem necessary to 
assist the polling officer . The polling officer shall , in 
addition to performing any other duties imposed upon 
him by these Regulations be in general charge of all 
arrangements at the polling booth and may issue orders 
as to the manner in which persons shall be admitted to 

e polling booth and generally for the preservation of 
peace and order at or in the vicinity of the polling booth . 


the 


63D . Secret Chamber and ballot paper .- ( 1 ) There 
shall be a secret chamber or chambers in each polling 
booth and such chamber shall be so arranged that where 
a voter records his votes on the ballot paper, no other 
persons can see how he has voted . 


( 2 ) The ballot paper shall contain a list of candidates 
standing for election in a constituency and shall bear the 
seal of the Council . 


61. List of valid nominations .- -- ( 1 ) On completion of 
the scrutiny of nominations as provided under Regula 
tion 59 , the Secretary shall forthwith prepare a list of 
valid nominations for the constituency and cause such 
list to be sent by registered post to each candidate in 
that constituency whose nomination has been accepted as 
valid . The list shall contain the full names in alpha 
betical order and the addresses of the valiuly nominated 
candidates in the constituency . 

( 2 ) If a candidate dies or otherwise ceases to be a 
member before the date or dates of polling fixed for the 
election but after the date fixed for the withdrawal of 
candidature under Regulation 58 and his nomination is 
or has been accepted as valid , the election in his consti 
tuency shall be conducted among the remaining candi 
dates and no fresh proceedings with reference to the 
election of members in the constituency in which such 
member was a candidate shall be commenced . 


63E . Presence of candidates at polling booths. Any 
candidate for election in a constituency shall be entitled 
to be present at the polling booths in that constituency 
and to appoint members of the Institute as his autho 
rised representatives to be present on his behalf at the 
polling booths in that constituency : 


62 . Candidates deemed to be elected if their number 
is equal to or less than the nuniber of persons to be 
elected . - If the number of candidates validly nominated 
in any constituency is equal, or becomes, by reason of 
the death or cessation of membership of one or more 
candidates before the counting of votes for the election , 
equal, to or less than the number of persons to be elected 
for such constituency , then such candidates shall be 
deemed to be elected and the Secretary shall declare all 
such candidates duly elected ; and where the number of 
such candidates in that constituency is less than the 
number of persons 1o be elected for that constituency , 


Provided that the candidate shall send to the Secretary 
by name so as to reach him at least thirty days before 
the date fixed for the poll at that constiuency an inti 
mation by registered post of his intention to appoint 
such authorised representatives for the purpose , clearly 
indicating the full name, membership number and address 
of each of the authorised representatives and the number 
of the polling booth at which each of them will be 
present : 

Provided further that not more than one authorised 
representative shall be present at a time at each polling 
booth . 


63F . Voting to be in person and not by proxy . 
Voting shall be by ballot and every person entitled to 
record his vote by ballot and wishing to record his vote , 
shall do so in person and not by proxy . 


PART III - SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1695 


636 . Identification of voters . - ( 1 ) The polling officer 
may employ at the polling booth such persons as he 
thinks fit to assist him in identifying the voters or for 
any other purpose . 

(2 ) At any time before a ballot paper is delivered to 
a voter, the polling officer may of his own accord , if he 
has reason to doubt the identity of the voter or his right 
to vote at the polling booth , and shall if so required by 
a candidate or his authorised representative , put to the 
voter such questions as he may deem necessary with a 
view to establishing the identity of that voter . 

( 3 ) Every voter shall be required to sign the marked 
copy of the list of members eligible to vote and his sig 
nature shall be verified by the polling officer with the 
specimen signature of the voter provided by the Secretary . 

( 4 ) If the polling officer is not satisfied as to the iden 
tity of the person claiming to be a voter , he may refuse 
to allow such person to vote in the election . 

63H . Record to be kept by polling officer.- ( 1 ) The 
polling officer shall at the time of delivery of the ballot 
paper place against the name of the voter in the list of 
members eligible to vote a mark to denote that the voter 
has received a ballot paper . He shall also keep a record 
of the ballot papers supplied to the voters in such man 
ner as the Secretary may direct. 

( 2 ) In deciding the right of a person to obtain a 
ballot paper under this Regulation , the polling officer at 
any polling booth may interpret any entry in the list of 
members eligible to vote so as to overlook merely clerical 
or printing error, provided that he is satisfied that such 
person is identical with the voter to whom such entry 
relates . 

631. Manner of recording of votes after receipt of 
ballot paper.- On receiving the ballot paper the voter 
shall forthwith proceed into the secret chamber set apart 
for the purpose and shall record his votes on the ballot 
paper in the manner specified in Regulation 63. He shall 
thereafter fold the ballot paper, leave the secret chamber 
and insert the ballot paper in the ballot box provided 
for the purpose in presence of the polling officer. The 
ballot box should be so constructed that a ballot paper 
can be inserted thereinto during the poll but cannot be 
withdrawn therefrom without the box being unlocked or 
the seals being broken . 

63 ) , Return of ballot paper by a voter. - ( 1 ) if a voter 
after obtaining a ballot paper for the purpose of record 
ing his votes decides noi to use the same, he shall return 
the ballot paper to the polling officer and the ballot 
paper so returned shall then be marked as cancelled 
returned and kept in a separate envelope set apart for 
the purpose and a record shall be kept by the polling 
officer of all such ballot papers. 

( 2 ) If any ballot paper which has been issued to a 
voter for the purpose of recording his votes is found left 
by the voter at the secret chamber at the end of the day 
when the polling officer inspects the secret chamber , 
whether votes have been recorded in it or not, it shall 
be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of sub 
regulation ( 1 ) as if it had been returned to the polling 
officer . 


the Secretary may declare the polling at the booth void 
and decide to have a fresh polling , respectively. 

( 3 ) If a polling is adjourned or declared void under 
sub -regulation ( 2 ) , the Secretary shall , as soon as may 
be possible , appoint the place where the polling shall 
be subsequently conducted and the time, date or dates , 
as the case may be , for the said polling booth . Also 
he shall not proceed with counting of votes relating to 
the election in a constituency , until the polling at all the 
polling booths in that constituency has been completed . 

( 4 ) The place , date or dates and the time of polling 
appointed under sub - regulation ( 3 ) shall be notified in 
dividually to the candidates and to the voters concerned . 

( 5 ) The polling officer shall close the polling both at 
the end of the day , or if the polling is for more than one 
day , at the end of each day at the hour appointed 
under sub -regulation ( 1 ) and no voter shall be admitted 
thereto after that hour : 

Provided that all voters present within the polling 
booth before it is closed , shall be entitled to have their 
votes recorded : 

Provided further that where the number of voters 
within a radius of eight kilometers at any polling booth 
exceeds 300 , the polling booth shall be kept open for 
two consecutive days during the same timings as men 
tioned in sub -regulation ( 1 ) . 

( 6 ) The polling officer shall, as soon as practicable 
after the close of the poll or after its close on each day 
if the polling is for more than day , in the presence 
of any candidates or their authorised representatives who 
may be present, seal the ballot box with his own seal 
and the seals of such candidates or authorised represen 
tatives as may desire to affix their seals thereon . He 
shall also make separate packets of : 

(i) the unused ballot papers ; 
( ii ) the returned ballot papers; 
( iii ) the marked copy of the list of members eligible 

to yote; and 
( iv ) any other paper directed by the Secretary to be 

kept in a sealed cover; 
and seal each such packet with his own seal and the seals 
of such candidates or authorised representatives as may 
desire to affix their seals thereon . He shall arrange for 
the safe custody of the ballot box and such packets . 

( 7 ) Before commencement of polling on the second 
day , wherever the polling is to take place for more than 
one day , the polling officer shall, after the seals on the 
ballot box and packets referred to in sub - regulation (6 ) 
are examined by him and by the candidates or their 
authorised representatives who may be present, remove 
in their presence the seals on the ballot box and packets 
for use during the course of that day . 

( 8 ) The ballot box and packets referred to in sub 
regulation ( 6 ) shall be accompanied by an account of 
ballot papers showing the total number of ballot papers 
received , issued , unissued and returned , as also the num 
ber of ballot papers which should be found in the ballot 
box . This account shall be forwarded to the Secretary 
by the polling officer , 

63L . Transport of ballot papers and their custody. - - 
The Secretary and the polling officers shall make adequate 
arrangements for safe custody of the ballot papers and 
for safe transport to the headquarters of the Institute of 
all packets or boxes and other papers referred to in 
Regulation 63K , The Secretary shall also be responsible 
for their safe custody until the commencement of count 
ing of votes, 


63K , Hours of polling ( 1 ) Every polling booth shall 
be kept open on the day or days appointed for record 
ing of votes from 8 . 30 hours to 18 . 30 hours , 

( 2 ) If the polling at any polling booth cannot take 
place on the day or days appointed for recording of 
votes , or is interrupted or obstructed for any sufficient 
cause , or the ballot box used at a booth is tampered 
with or is accidentally or deliberately destroyed , lost or 
damaged , the polling officer or the Secretary , as the case 
may be, may adjourn the polling to a subsequent date , or 


1696 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[PART III - Sec . 4 


PANDAN 


63M . Voting by members emploved on duty at polling 
hooths.- -- The polling officer , the persons appointed by 
the Secretary to assist the polling officer, or the aut 
rised representatives referred to in Regulation 63E , who 
are voters for any constituency and who by reason of 
their being on duty at a polling booth , are unable to be 
present and to vote at the polling booth where they are 
entitled to vote , may send to the Secretary by name 
so as to reach him at least thirty days before the date 
fixed for the poll at that constituency , an application for 
permission to vote at the polling booth where they will 
be on duty . If the Secretary is satisi ied that the claim 
is just , he may , notwithsianding anything contained in 
this Chapter, allow the application and permit the 
voter tu vote at the polling bootii where he will be on 
duty to act as polling officer or to assist the polling officer 
or as authorised representative of a candidate : 

Provided that such permission shall not be granted to 
more than one authorised representative of a candidate 
in respect of each polling booch , such authorised represen 
tative being specifically nominated for the purpose by 
the candidate himself, 

63N , Eligibility 10 vote by post. - - Every member whose 
name is included in the list of members eligible to voie 
published under the provisions of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of 
Regulation 36 and whose name is not attached to any 
polling booth and every member who is residing outside 
India , shall, notwithstanding anything contained in this 
Chapter, be entitled 10 vote by post : 

Provided that a member who is entitled to vote by 
poll may be allowed at the discretion of the Secretary 
to vote hy post if , by reason of there being a permanent 
change in his address froni the address published in the 
list of members eligible to vote to another village , town 
or city beyond a radius of eight kilometers , he is unable 
to exercise his vote by poll at the polling booth allotted 
to him . Application in this behalf , with proper verifica 
tion vi the contents of the application by the member 
concerned , should be sent to the Sccretary by name so 
as to rcach him at least 30 days before the date of poll 
ing . Any misuse of this concession , or any misstate 
ment or false verification in this behalf will render the 
member concerned liable for disciplinary action under 
Regulation 70 : 

Provided frurther that a member who is actually resid 
ing beyond a radius of eight kilometers from the polling 
booth allotted to him on the basis of his professional 
address may at the discretion of the Secretary also be 
given the concession provided in the foregoing proviso 
on the same terms and conditions. 


3 .00 p .m . on the date fixed in this behalf . A voting 
paper not addressed to the Secretary by name and not 
delivered by registered post shall be disregarded . 

65B . Issue of undelivered and fresh ballot papers. -- 
When a ballot paper and other connected papers sent by 
post under Regulation 65 are lost or damaged in transit 
or for any reason returned undelivered the Secretary 
army reissue them by registered post or deliver them or 
cause them to be delivered to the voter on this applying 
for the same, if the Secretary is satisfied with the reasons 
for such loss , damage or return of the ballot paper and 
other connected papers. 

65C . Grounds for declaring hallot papers invalid .-- A 
ballot paper shall be invalid if 
( a ) a voter signs his name or writes any word or 

figure or makes any mark on it by which the 
ballot paper becomes recognisable , or by which 

the voter can be identified ; or 
( b ) it does not bear the seal of the Council; or 
( c ) the figure 1 is not marked in the square opposite 

the name of any of the candidates ; or 
( d ) the figure 1 is set opposite the name of piore 

than one candidatc ; or 
( e ) the figure 1 and some other figure are set 

opposite the name of the same candidate ; or 
( f) it is unmarked or void for uncertainty . 
66 . Definitions.- -- In this Chapter , unless there is any 
thing repugnant in the subject or context 
( a ) continuing candidate means any candidate not 

elected and not excluded from the poll at any 

given time: 
( b ) first preferencc means the figure 1, " second 

preference" means the figure 2 , and third pre 
ference ineans the figure 3 , set opposite the 

name of any candidate , and so on ; 
( c ) unexhausted paper " means a ballot paper on 

which a further preterence is recorded for a 

continuing candidatc ; 
( d ) exhausted paper means a ballot paper on which 

no further preference is recorded for a continu 
ing candidate , provided that a ballot paper shall 
also be deemed to be exhausted in any case in 
which 
( i) the names of two or more candidates, whe 

ther continuing or not, are marked with 
the same figure and are next in order of 

preference ; or 
( ii ) the name of the candidate next in order of 

preference , whether continuing or not, is 
marked by a figure not following conse 
cutively after some other figures on the 

ballot paper or by two or more figures; 
(e ) original vote in regard to any candidate means 

a vote derived from a ballot paper on which 

a first preference is recorded for such candidate ; 
(f) transferred vote in regard to any candi 

date means a vote , the value or part of the 
value of which is credited to such candidate 
and which is derived from a ballot paper on 
which a second or subsequent preference is 

recorded for such candidate ; 
( g ) surplus means the number by which the value 

of the votes of any candidate , original or trans 

ferred , exceeds the quota . 
66A . Appointment of time for counting of votes. 
The Secretary shall appoint the time for counting of 


64 . Eligibility to vote by poll by a voter entitled to 
vote by post.- - A voier entitled to vote by post under 
Regulation 63N may however be allowed by the Secre 
tary to vote by poll at any particular polling both to be 
specified by him within his regional constituency , pro 
vided he makes an application to that effect in writing 
duly addressed and forwarded to the Secretary by name 
by registered post so as to reach him at least 45 days 
before the date of polling . 

65 . Ballot papers to be sent by post : - At least 21 days 
before the date for starting of counting of votes, the 
Secretary shall send by registered post to the address of 
every voter entitled to wote by post under Regulation 
63N , the ballot paper together with a letter explaining 
the manner in which it shall be filled up , and specifying 
the date and hour by which it must reach the Secretary . 


65A . Bullot papers to be miturned after recording voies 
thereon . - - Every voter on receiving his ballot paper sent 
under Regulation 65 shall, if he desires to vote at the 
election , record his votes thereon in the manner specified 
in Regulation 63 and then send it to the Secretary by 
name and by registered post so as to reach him before 


PART III - SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1697 


votes on each date at the headquarters of the Institute 
and shall give notice of such time in writing to all candi 
dates. 

67 . Counting of votes.- -- ( 1 ) On the date and at the 
time and place appointed under Regulation 66A , the 
Secretary shall for purposes of counting of votes in res 
pect of a constituency 
(a ) open the covers containing the postal ballot 

papers received by him under Regulation 65A , 
and shall take out the ballot papers from each 
such cover , record the number thereof in a 
statement and make a separate packet of such 

ballot papers ; 
(b ) allow the candidates or their authorised re 

presentatives present at the counting an oppor 
tunity to inspect the ballot boxes and packets 
received from the polling officers and their seals 
for satisfying themselves that they are in order ; 

and 
( c ) proceed as follows : 
If he is satisfied that the ballot boxes and packets 
which have been received are in order , he shall take up 
the counting of the ballot papers contained in the ballot 
boxes. If he finds that any of the ballot boxes has been 
tampered with , he shall not count the ballot papers con 
tained in such box for purposes of election . He shall , 
however , keep a record of such ballot papers for purposes 
of election petitions, if any . 

He shall open the ballot boxes found to be in order, 
take out the ballot papers therefrom , count them and 
keep a record of their number in a statement . 
he shall add the postal ballot papers . He shall then 
examine the ballot papers and reject those which are in 
valid . He shall thereafter divide the valid ballot papers 
into parçels according to the first preferences recorded 
for each candidate and count the number of papers in 
each parcel . 

( 2 ) In carrying out the Regulations hereinafter con 
tained , the Secretary shall 

(a ) disregard all fractions, and 
(b ) ignore all preferences recorded for candidates 

already elected or excluded from the poll . 
( 3 ) For the purpose of facilitating the processes pres 
cribed by the Regulations hereinafter contained , each 
valid paper shall be deemed to be of the value of one 
hundred . 

( 4 ) The Secretary shall add together the values of 
the papers in all the parcels and divide the total by a 
number exceeding by one the number of vacancies to be 
filled and the result increased by one shall be the num 
ber sufficient to secure the return of a candidate (here 
inafter called the quota ) . 

(5 ) If at any time a number of candidates equal to the 
number of persons to be elected has obtained the quota , 
such candidates shall be declared elected , and no further 
steps shall be taken . 

( 6 ) Any candidate , the value of whose parcel , on the 
first preference being counted , is equal to or greater than 
the quota , shall be declared elected . If the value of the 
papers in any such parcel 
( a ) is equal to the quota the papers shall be set 

aside as finally dealt with ; 
( b ) is greater than the quota the surplus shall be 

transferred to the continuing candidates indi 
cated on the voting papers as next in the order 
of the voters preference in the manner pres 

cribed in the following sub -regulations . 
( 7 ) If and whenever as the result of any operation 
prescribed by these Regulations a candidate has a surplus 
that surplus shall be transferred in accordance with the 
provisions of this sub - regulation . 


(a ) If more than one candidate has a surplus, the 

largest surplus shall be dealt with first and the 
others in order of magnitude : Provided that 
every surplus arising on the first counting of 
votes shall be dealt with before those arising 

on the second counting and so on . 
( b ) Where two or more surpluses are equal, the 

Secretary shall decide , as hereinafter provided , 

which shall first be dealt with . 
( c ) If the surplus of any candidate to be transferred 

arises from original votes only, the Secretary 
shall examine all the papers in the parcel be 
longing to the candidate whose surplus is to 
be transferred , and divide the unexhausted 
papers into sub - parcels according to the next 
preferences recorded thereon . He shall also 
make a separate sub -parcel of the exhausted 
papers . He shall then ascertain the value of 
the papers in each sub -parcel and of all the 
unexhausted papers . If the value of the un 
exhausted papers , 
( i) is equal to or less than the surplus, he 

shall transfer all the unexhausted papers at 
the value at which they were received by 
the candidate whose surplus is being trans 

ferred . 
(ii ) is greater than the surplus, he shall trans 

fer the sub - parcel of unexhausted papers , 
and the value at which each paper shall 
be transferred shall be ascertained by 
dividing the surplus by the total number 

of unexhausted papers . 
( d ) If the surplus of any candidate to be trans 

ferred arises from transferred as well as original 
votes, the Secretary shall re - examine all the 
papers in the sub -parcel last transferred to the 
candidate , and divide the unexhausted papers 
into sub -parcels according to the next prefer 
ences recorded thereon . He shall thereupon 
deal with the sub - parcels in the same manner as 
is provided in the case of the sub - parcels re 

ferred to in clause ( c ) . 
( e ) The papers transferred to each candidate shall 

be added in the form of a sub -parcel to the 

papers already belonging to such candidate . 
( f ) All papers in the parcel or sub -parcel of an 

elected candidate not transferred under this sub 

regulation shall be set aside as finally dealt with . 
( 8 ) If after all surpluses have been transferred , as 
hereinbefore provided , less than the number of candidates 
required has been elected , the Secretary shall exclude 
from the poll the candidate lowest on the poll and shall 
proceed as follows : 
( a ) He shall distribute the unexhausted papers of 

the excluded candidate among the continuing 
candidates according to the next preferences 
record thereon . Any exhausted papers shall be 

set aside as finally dealt with . 
(b ) The papers containing original votes of an ex 

cluded candidate shall first be transferred , the 

transfer value of each paper being one hundred . 
( c ) The papers containing tranferred votes of an 

excluded candidate shall then be transferred in 
the order of the transfers in which and at the 

value of which he obtained them . 
( d ) Each of such transfers shall be deemed to be 

a separate transfer. 
( e ) The process prescribed by this sub - regulation 

shall be repeated on the successive exclusions 
one after another of the candidates lowest on 
the poll until the last vacancy is filled either 
by the election of a candidate with the quota 

or as hereinafter provided . 
( 9 ) If as the result of a transfer under these Regula 
tions the value of the votes obtained by a candidate is 


1698 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[ PART III — Sec . 4 


LE 


w 


NUNLA 

- 


- 


70 . Disciplinary action against member in connection 
with conduct of elections - -- A member of the Institute 
shall be liable for disciplinary action by the Council if 
he adopts one or more of the following practices with 
regard to the election to the Council, namely : 

( 1 ) Bribery , that is to say , any gift , offer or promise 
by a candidate or by any other person with the conni 
vance of a candidate , of any gratification to a person 
whomsoever, with the object, directly or indirectly , of 
inducing 
( a ) a member to stand or not to stand as, or to 

withdraw from being, a candidate at an election ; 

or 
(b ) a voter to vote or refrain from voting at an 

election , or as a reward to 
(i) a member for having so stood or not stood , 

or for having withdrawn his candidature ; 


or 


equal to or greater than the quota , the transfer then pro 
ceeding shall be completed , but no further papers shall 
be transferred to him . 

( 10 ) If after the completion of any transfer under 
these Regulations the value of votes of any candidate 
shall be equal to or greater than the quota , he shall be 
declared elected . If the value of the votes of any such 
candidate 
( a ) shall be equal to the quota , the whole of the 

papers on which such votes are recorded shall 

te set aside as finally dealt with ; 
( b ) shall be greater than the quota , his surplus 

shall thereupon be distributed in the manrer 
herein before provided , before the exclusion of 

any other candidate , 
( 11 ) When the number of continuing candidates is 
reduced to the number of vacancies remaining unfilled ; 
the continuing candidates shall be declared elected . When 
only one vacancy remains unfilled and 
( a ) if the value of the votes of some one continu 

ing candidate exceeds the total value of all the 
votes of the other continuing candidates, to 
gether with any surplus not transferred that 

candidate shall be declared elected ; 
( b ) 

if there are only two continuing candidates , and 
those two candidates have each the same value 
of votes and no surplus remains capable of 
transfer , one candidate shall be declared ex 
cluded under the next succeeding sub -regulation 

and the other declared elected . 
( 12 ) If , when there is more than one surplus to dis 
tribute , two or more surpluses are equal , or if at any time 
it becomes necessary to exclude a candidate and two or 
more candidates have the same values of votes and are 
lowest on the poll , regard shall be had to the original 
votes of each candidate and the candidate for whom 
fewest original votes are recorded shall have his surplus 
first distributed , or shall be first excluded , as the case 
may be. If the values of their original votes are equal 
the Secretary shall decide by lot which candidate shall 
have his surplus distributed or be excluded . 

68 . Appointment of Scrutinisers . --- The Secretary shall 
appoint not more than four persons who are neither 
members of the Council nor candidates for election to 
act as scrutinisers of the voting papers and to assist the 
Secretary generally in counting the votes . 

68A . Presence of candidates at the time of counting 
of votes. Any candidate for election shall be entitled 
to be present in person or to appoint a member of the 
Institute as a representative to be present on his behalf 
at the time of counting of votes . 

69. Notification of the declaration of results. - The 
names of all candidates declared elected shall be notified 
by the Council in the Journal of the Institute . 

69A . Savings. — ( 1 ) The decision of the Secretary 
shall be final in all matters not only in regard to the 
application of any of the provisions of the Regullations 
contained in this Chapter but also in respect of all other 
matters not specifically covered by these provisions : 

Provided that an appeal against the Secretary s decision 
may be made to the Council by a candidate within te 
days from the date of communication of the decision 
to him , and the appeal shall be dealt with by the same 
Committee and in the manner as specified in Regulation 
60. 

(2 ) No election shall be deemed to be invalid merely 
because of the accidental omission to send, or delay in 
sending , a ballot paper to a voter, or the accidental non 
receipt of, or delay in receiving, a ballot paper by a voter , 
or any other accidental irregularity or informality in the 
conduct of the election . 


( ii) a voter for having voted or refrained from 

voting . 
Explanation . For the purposes of this clause the term 
" gratification ” is not restricted to pecuniary gratifications 
or gratifications estimable in money , but includes all 
forms of entertainment and all forms of employment for 
reward ; but it does not include the payment of any ex 
penses bona fide incurred at, or for the purpose of , any 
election . 

(2 ) Undue influence, that is to say , any direct or in 
direct interference or attempt to interfere on the part of 
a candidate or of any other person with the connivance 
of the candidate with free exercise of any electoral right : 

Provided that a declaration of policy or a promise of 
a particular action or the mere exercise of a legal right 
without intent to interfere with an electoral right shall 
not be deemed to be interference within the meaning of 
this clause , 

( 3 ) The publication by a candidate or by any other 
person with the connivance of the candidate of any state 
ment of fact which is false, and which he either believes 
to be false or does not believe to be true , in relation to 
the personal character or conduct of any candidate , or in 
relation to the candidature or withdrawal of any candi 
date , being a statement reasonably calculated to prejudice 
the prospects of that candidate s election , 

( 4 ) The obtaining or procuring or abetting or attemp 
ting to obtain or procure by a candidate or by any other 
person with the connivance of a candidate , any assistance 
for the furtherance of the prospects of the candidate s 
election from any person serving under the Government 
of India or the Government of any State other than the 
giving of vote by such person , if he is a member of the 
Institute entitled to vote . 

( 5 ) The hiring or procuring, whether on payment or 
otherwise, of a vehicle by candidate or by any other per 
son with the connivance of a candidate, for the convey 
ance of voters, 

(6 ) The canvassing for votes, or soliciting the vote of 
any voter , or persuading any voter not to vote for any 
particular candidate , or persuading any voter not to vote 
at the election , or exhibiting any notice or sign board 
( other than an official notice ) relating to the election , 
by a candidate or by any other person with the conni 
vance of a candidate within a distance of 200 meters 
from a polling booth . 

( 7 ) Any act specified in clauses ( 1 ) to (6 ) , when 
done by a member of the Institute who is not a candidate 
or a member acting with the connivance of a candidate . 

(8 ) The receipt of, or agreement to receive, any 
gratification whether as a motive or a reward 
( a ) by a member for standing or not standing as, 

or withdrawing from being , a candidate ; or 


PART III - SEC . 41. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1699 


( b ) by any member whomsoever for himself or any 

other person for voting or refraining from 
voting, or for inducing or attempting to indue 
any voter to vote or refrain from voting, or any 

candidate to withdraw his candidature . 
( 9 ) Contravention or misuse of any of the provisions 
of this Chapter or making of any false statement know 
ing it to be false or without knowing it to be true while 
complying with any of the provisions of this Chapter. 

70A . Dispute regarding election . — ( 1 ) On receipt of 
an application under sub -section ( 2 ) of Section 10 of the 


Act, the President shall refer the matter to the Tribunal 
within thirty days of the receipt of the application . 

( 2 ) At the time of giving its decision , the Tribunal 
shall also pass an order in regard to the costs. If the 
Tribunal is satisfied that an application made under sub 
section ( 2 ) of Section 10 of the Act was not founded 
on a valid ground , the Tribunal may award the costs to 
the Institute . 


S . N . GHOSE , 

Secretary . 


EMPLOYEES STATE INSURANCE CORPORATION 

Regional Office Assam Region 


Gauhati , dated the 5th August 1970 


No . E - 17 / 10 . — It is hereby notified that the Local Committee set up vide this Office Notification No . E - 17/ 10 , dated 14 - 11 - 1969 
for Dhubri in Assam Region under Regulation 10 - A of the Employees State Insurance (General) Regulations, 1950 , has been recons 
tituted as follows : 


Chairman 
Under Regulation 10 -A (a ) 


. 


. 


The Civil Surgeon , District Goalpara , Dhubri . 


Members 
Under Regulation 10-A (b) 
Under Regulation 10 - A (€) 
Under Regulation 10- A (d ) 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. The Labour Officer , Dhubri . 
. The Administrative Medical Officer , E . S . I. Scheme, Rehabari, Gauhati- 8 . 
. (i) Shri V . S. Pathvardhan , Manager , Assam Match Co., Dhubri. 

(ii) Shri Dhanraj Surama, Manager , M /s Sankar Industries , Dhubri . 
. (i) Shri Anilesh Ghosh , General Secretary, A . M . Co . Sramik Sangha and President of 

Dhubri Plywood Workers Union , Dhubri. 
( ii ) Shri Anil Kumar Mitra Mazumdar, Assistant Secretary , Goalpara . District Oil & 

Rice Mills Workers Union , Dhubri . 
Manager, Local office , E. S. I. Corporation , Secretary . 


Under Regulation 10 - A (e ) 


. 


. 


Under Regulation 10 -A (6) 


. 


By Order 
V . K . SAKSENA , 
Regional Director 


Trichur, the 3rd October 1970 
No, KL / INS/ CBS - 7 ( 1 ) . - In exercise of the powers 
conferred under Regulation 10 ( A ) of the ESI (General) 
Regulations , 1950 the following amendment is hereby 
effected to the Corporation Notification No. KL / INSY 
CBS - 7 ( 1 ) / 6 dated 15th April , 1969 . 


In the said Notification under Regulation 10 - A ( 1 ) 
for the entry against item (6 ) the following entry shall 
be substituted namely : 

" Shri P . Krishnan Nair , Manager, 
Vanaja Textiles , 
Kuruchikara ” . 


In the said Notification under Regulation 10 - A ( 1 ) 
for the entry against item ( 9 ) the following entry shall 
be substituted , namely : 

“ Shri N . Raman Nair , 
Vice -President, 

I. N . T .U .C ., Cannanore." 
In the said Notification under Regulation 10 - A ( 1 ) 
for the entry against Sl. No. (4 ) the following entry shall 
be substituted , namely : 

“ Janab A . K . Kunjalikutty , 
Managing Director , 
Western India Cottons Ltd ., 
Pappinissery.” 

By Order 
No. KL / INS/CBS -7 ( 1 ) . - In exercise of the powers 
conferred under Regulation 10 ( A ) of the ESI (General) 
Regulations , 1950 the following amendment is hereby 
effected to the Corporation Notification No. KL / INS/ 
ÇBS -7 ( 1 ) / 5 dated the 15th April, 1969, 


By Order 
No. KL / INS/ CBS- 7 ( 1 ) . In exercise of the powers 
conferred under Regulation 10 ( A ) of the ESI (General) 
Regulations , 1950 the following amendment is hereby 
effected to the Corporation Notification No. KL / INS/ 
CBS- 7 ( 1 ) / 8 dated the 15th April, 1969, 
299G1/70 - 2 


1700 


THE GAZEETE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


(PART III - SEC . 4 


“ Shri Balakrishnan Nair , 
Manager , Pioneer Hosiery ( P ) Ltd ., 
Kallai, 
Calicut.” 

By order 
S . A . N . MURTHY 

Regional Director 


AT 


In the said Notification under Regulation 10 - A ( 1 ) b 
for the entry against item (2 ) the following entry shall be 
substituted , namely : - - 

“ District Labour Officer , 

Alwaye” . 
In the said Notification under Regulation 10 - A ( I ) e 
for the entry against Sl. No . (11) the following shall be 
substituted , namely : - - 

" Shri V . G . Bhaskaran Nair , 
President, 
T .C . M . Employees Association , 
Kalamassery " . 

By Order 
No. KL / INS / CBS- 7 ( 1 ) .- - In exercise of the powers 
conferred under Regulation 10 ( A ) of the ESI (General ) 
Regulations, 1950 the following amendment is hereby 
effected to the Corporation Notification No. KL / INS / 
CBS- 7 ( 1 ) / 2 dated 15th April , 1969 . 

In the said Notification under Regulation 10 - A ( 1) 
for the entry against item ( 8 ) the following entry shall be 
substituted , namely : - - 

" Shri K . C . Mohanan , 
Secretary , Kerala Kasuandi Thozhilali , 
Kendra Council, 
Kilikollur .” 

By Order 
No. KL / INS/ CBS- 7 ( 1 ) . - - In exercise of the powers 
conferred under Regulation 10 ( A ) of the ESI (General) 
Regulations , 1950 the following amendment is hereby 
effected to the Corporation Notification No . KL / INSY 
CBS - 7 ( 1 ) / 3 dated 15th April , 1969 . 

In the said Notification under Regulation 10 - A ( 1 ) e 
for the entry against item ( 10 ) the following entry shall 
be substituted , namely : --- 

" Shri T . V . Ramesh Chandran , 
Vice - President, 
The Travancore Coir Factory Workers Union , 
Alleppey ” . 

By Order 
No, KL / INS/ CBS- 7 ( 1 ) . - - In exercise of the powers 
conferred under Regulation 107A ) of the ESI (General) 
Regulations , 1950 the following amendment is hereby 
effected to the Corporation Notification No. KL / INS / 
CBS- 7 ( 1 ) / ( 4 ) dated 15th April, 1969. 

In the said Notification under Regulation 10 - A ( 1 ) d 
for the entries against items ( 4 ) & ( 5 ) the following 
entries shall be substituted respectively , namely : 

" Shri Zacharia Osman Sait, 
C / o M / s. Ebrahim Mohamed Hashim & Brothers, 
Cochin - 2 ." 

and 
" Shri P . Setharam , 
Secretary , The Cochin Chamber of Commerce and 

Industry , 
Cochin - 3 ." 

By Order 
No . KL / INS/ CBS - 7 ( 1 ) . - - In exercise of the powers 
conferred under Regulation 10 ( A ) of the ESI (General) 
Regulations , 1950 the following amendment is hereby 
effected to the Corporation Notification No . KL / INS / 
CBS- 7 ( 1 ) 7 dated the 15th April, 1969. 

In the said Notification under Regulation 10 - A ( 1 ) 
for the entry against Sl. No. ( 6 ) the following entry shall 
bę substituted , namely ; 


PANJAB UNIVERSITY ( CHANDIGARH ) 

Chandigarh , the 6th October 1970 
The Central Government (Ministry of Education ) 
have accorded approval vide their letter No. F . 3 - 1 / 69 - U . 
1, dated 3 - 9 - 1970 , to the following regulations : 
1 . Regulation 8 relating to Faculties (Chapter II ) at page 

46 of the Calendar. Vol. I, 1970 , shall read as 
under : 

8 .1 . A person shall not be eligible to seek election , 
who : 
(a ) in one way or the other , is involved in publica 

tion of cheap notes, guides or help -books. 
(b ) by himself or by any person or body of persons, 

in trust for him or for his benefit or on his 
account he has any share or interest in : 
( i ) a firm engaged in printing, publishing or 

selling books to or for the use of the 
University or students of any of its 

courses , 
( ii ) a contract for supply of goods to the 

University . 
( iii ) execution of any works of the University . 

Provided further that no person elected as a 
member shall continue to hold his office if he 
incurs any of the disqualifications mentioned in 

( i), ( ii ) and ( iii ) above. 
(c ) is a student of a recognised or affiliated institu 

tion or a private candidate appearing in a 
University Examination . 


If any dispute arises whether any person is eligible to 
seek election or has incurred any of the disqualifications , 
the question shall be determined by the Chancellor whose 
decision shall be final. 


8 . 2 . A person shall not be eligible to seek election to a 
Faculty and if he is already a member he shall cease to 
hold his respective office : 
( a ) if he is shown as author , or collaborator of a 

book prescribed for a University examination 
excepting M . A . course , whether or not he has 
in fact contributed to the writing of the book ; 


or 


( b ) if he is found , after a proper enquiry to be the 

writer of such book , though his name does not 

appear as an author, co -author or collaborator . 
Persons affected by these provisions shall be given a 
chance to defend their cases hefore final action is taken 
by the University. 

Provided that this shall not apply to a person who 
wrote a book at the instance of the University and did 
not receive any royalty for the same. 
2 . Regulation 1 relating to the Syndicate (Chapter III ) 

at page 50 of the Calendar, Volume I , 1970 , shall read 
as under : 


PART III - Sec . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1701 


( a ) if he is shown as author or collaborator of a 

book prescribed for a University examination 
excepting M . A , course , whether or not he has 
in fact contributed to the writing of the book ; 
or 


( b ) if he is found , after a proper enquiry to be the 

writer of such book , though his name does not 
appear as an author , co -author or collaborator . 


Persons affected by these provisions shall be given a 
chance to defend their cases before final action is taken 
by the University . 


Provided that this shall not apply to a person who 
wrote a book at the instance of the University and did 
not receive any royalty for the same. 

K . C . WALIA 
Dated : October 6 , 1970. Officer on Special Duty 

Sealed in my presence with the Common Seal of the 
Panjab University this day the 6th of October , 1970 . 

JAGJIT SINGH 

Registrar 


AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION 

SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT 1969 -70 


1 . 1 . The Fellows assigned to the Faculties mentioned 
in this Regulation shall elect from amongst themselves 
fitteen ex - officio or Ordinary Fellows as members of the 
Syndicate in the following proportion : 

Two by the Faculty of Languages . 
Three by the Faculty of Arts . 
Three by the Faculty of Science & Mathematics . 
Two by the Faculty of Law . 
Two by the Faculty of Medical Sciences. 

Three by the Faculties of Agriculture , Dairying & 
Animal Husbandry , Education , Commerce , Engineer 
ing & Technology and Design & Fine Arts. 

Provided that a person shall not be eligible to seek 
election , it whether by himself or by any person or body 
of persons in trust for him or for his benefit or on his 
account he has any share or interest in : 

( i) a firm engaged in printing , publishing or selling 

books to or for the use of the University or 

students of any of its courses; 
( ii ) a contract for supply of goods to the 

University ; 
( iii ) execution of any works of the University . 
Provided further that no person elected as a member 
shall continue to hold his office if he incurs any of the 
disqualifications mentioned in (i) , ( ii ) and ( iii ) above . 

If any dispute arises whether any person is eligible to 
seek, election or has incurred any of the disqualifications , 
the question shall be determined by the Chancellor whose 
decision shall be final, 

1 .2 . A person shall not be eligible to seek election to 
the Syndicate and if he is already a member he shall 
ceuse to hold his respective office : 
( a ) if he is shown as author , or collaborator of a 

book prescribed for a University examination 
excepting M . A . course , whether or not he has 

in fact contributed to the writing of the book ; or 
(b ) if he is found , after a proper enquiry to be the 

writer of such book , though his name does not 

appear as an author, co -author or collaborator . 
Persons affected by these provisions shall be given a 
chance to defend their cases before final action is taken 
by the University . 

Provided that this shall not apply to a person who 
wrote a book at the instance of the University and did 
not receive any royalty for the same. 

1 . 3 . A new Syndicate shall be elected not later than 
December 31 of each year and its year of office shall 
commence from the Ist January following. 

Each Fellow shall be entitled to vote for as many 
candidates as there are Syndics to be elected . A candidate 
shall be proposed and seconded and voting shall be by 
ballot. A fresh vote shall be taken when equality of 
votes makes this necessary . If the votes are equal after 
a second vote is taken , the Chairman shall have a second 
or casting vote . 
3 . Regulation 9 relating to Board of Studies ( Chapter V ) 

at page 64 of the Calendar , Volume 1 , 1970 , shall 
read as under : 

9 . 1 . A person working in an affiliated college , who , in 
one way or the other, is involved in publication of cheap 
notes, guides or help - books shall not be eligible to become 
a member of a Board of Studies , 

9.2 . A person shall not be eligible to seek election to 
a Board of Studies and if he is already a member he shall 
cease to hold his respective office : 


Bombay, the 29th September 1970 
No. G .S.R . - In pursuance of Section 32 ( 2 ) of the 
Agricultural Refinance Corporation Act, 1963 ( 10 of 
1963 ) , the report of the Board on the working of the 
Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1970 and the 
Balance Sheet and the Profit and Loss Account of the 
Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1970 are pub 
lished hereunder : 


The Directors have pleasure in presenting their seventh 
annual report along with the audited statement of accounts 
for the year ended 30 June 1970 . For the second year in 
succession , the Corporation earned a profit which after 
providing fully for its liabilities to tax leaves it able to 
meet its statutory liability to pay a minimum dividend of 
44 per cent to the shareholders , without a subvention 
from the Government of India . The growing trend in the 
Corporation s business was maintained , but an even more 
satisfactory feature of the year s operations was an im 
provement on the part of the financing institutions in the 
physical implementation of schemes and utilization of re 
finance sanctioned by the Corporation . 

The total financial assistance sanctioned by the Corpo 
ration since its inception on 1 July 1963 until 30 June 
1970 amounts Rs. 260 crores and its commitments to 
Rs. 215 crores representing an increase of Rs. 87 crores 
and Rs. 67 crores , respectively , during the year as com 
pared with an increase of Rs. 73 crores and Rs. 64 crores , 
respectively , during the year 1968 -69 . The amount of 
refinance availed of from the Corporation during 1969- 70 
was Rs. 29 crores and formed 46 per cent of its commit 
ments for that year as compared with Rs. 18 crores and 
39 per cent in the preceding year. The amount disbursed 
by the Corporation since its inception up to 30 June 1970 
was Rs. 59 crores, accounting for 64 per cent of its cumu 
lative commitments until that date , as compared with 
Rs. 30 crores and 52 per cent at the end of the previous 
year . The surplus left as a result of operations during 
1969 - 70 , after meeting tax and dividend liabilities, comes 
to Rs. 9 . 02 lakhs as compared with Rs. 0 . 13 lakh in 
1968 -69. 


1702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[PART III — SEC. 4 


- 


The foregoing developments which represent a greater 
participation by the Corporation in the overall lending 
programmes of the land development banks , underline the 
fact that the Corporation has accepted and is confidently 
playing its role as the leader , as well as the refinancier, of 
co - operative banking institutions in the country engaged 
in providing capital investment for agricultural develop 
ment. Against this backgroun of growth of responsibility , 
however , the Corporation will have to keep under cons 
tant review its terms of lending because of the increased 
cost to it of raising resources . Until the end of 1968 -69 , 
the Corporation borrowed entirely from the Government 
of India at 5 per cent for loans up to 9 years and at 51 
per cent for loans up to 15 years with a rebate of 4 per 
cent for prompt payment of interest . As a result of the 
need for additional resources during 1969 - 70 , the Corpo 
ration had to issue bonds in the open market for meeting 
its commitments made under sanctioned schemes. The 
Corporation had to pay interest at 54 per cent per annum 
on funds raised through the issue of bonds . The actual 
cost of such market borrowings came to about 6 per cent 
due to factors such as payment of stamp duty . This in 
creased cost of borrowing will be reflected in the opera 
tions of the Corporation with effect from the next year . 
The Corporation , however, has decided to withhold , for 
the time being, any increase in its general refinance rate , 
which thus continuous to be 6 per cent per annum . In 
arriving at this decision the Corporation has taken due 
account of the recommendation of the All - India Rural 
Credit Review Committee ( 1969 ) that the Government 
of India should amend the relevant laws so as to enable 
the Corporation to borrow substantially from the National 
Agricultural Credit (Long- term Operations) Fund of the 
Reserve Bank of India at a concessional rate . 


( IBRD ) and the Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project 
( IDA ) and the Punjab Agricultural Credit Project ( IDA ) 
have been approved . Under the agreements between 
IBRD / IDA , the Government of India , the Corporation 
and the financing institutions concerned , the IBRD will 
provide loans to the Government of India for the Tarai 
Project to the extent of $ 13 .00 million (Rs. 9 . 75 crores ) , 
of which Rs. 6 .75 crores will be made available through 
the Corporation . IDA will provide loans to the Govern 
ment of India to the extent of $ 35 million (Rs. 26 . 25 
crores ) for the Gujarat Project and $ 27.5 million 
( Rs. 20 .63 crores ) for the Punjab Project, the amounts to 
be made available through the Corporation being 
Rs. 26 . 03 crores and Rs. 20 .63 crores respectively . The 
Corporation will receive these amounts as loans from the 
Government of India , on the usual terms and conditions . 
It is expected that assistance will be provided by IDA for 
similar projects in a few other states also , through the 
Corporation . Details have been given elsewhere in this 
Report. 


While refinancing viable schemes of agricultural deve 
lopment in the various states , the Corporation has taken 
pains to ensure , within its power , that the promotion of 
schemes in under -developed areas receives special and 
urgent attention . The Corporation has opened new re 
gional offices with a view to stimulating this process of 
locating and formulating schemes of development which 
can be assisted by the Corporation . However , the effec 
tiveness of its assistance is governed by the enterprise and 
response on the part of the local financial institutions and 
the state governments concerned . 


REVIEW OF TOTAL OPERATIONS 


A noteworthy feature of the working of the Corpora 
tion during the year was its active association with the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
( IBRD ) and its affiliate the International Development 
Association ( IDA ) , in financing capital investment for 
modernizing and increasing the productive capacity of 
agriculture , Three Projects, viz ., the Tarai Seeds Project 


Financial Operations 

The Corporation had sanctioned 371 schemes up to 30 
June 1970 involving financial assistance of Rs. 259.51 
crores to the ultimate borrowers , of which the Corpora 
tion s share would be Rs. 214 .89 crores. The following 
table shows the position : 


REVIEW OF TOTAL OPERATIONS 


Rs. Crores 


mm 


No . of 
Schemes 
sanctioned 
during the 


No. of Schemes withdrawn 
during the year by financing 

banks 


Year 


Total Financial 
Assistance for 
schemes sanc 
tioned during 
the year after 
excluding schemes 

under Col. 3 * 


ARC s 
commitment 

under 
Col. 4 


year 


Out of 
schemes 
sanctioned 
during the 

year 


Out of 
schemes 
sanctioned 
during the 
previous years 


5 


2 .0 


1963-64 
1964 -65 
1965-66 
1966 -67 
1967-68 
1968 -69 
1969-70 


2 . 23 
11 . 96 
13 .65 

9 . 13 
61 .61 


10 .07 
10 . 85 

7 . 07 
53 .72 


73 .46 


64 .28 


87 .47 


66 .89 


401 


20 


259 . 51 


214 . 89 


* After making adjustments for re -phasing 


PART III - Sec . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892 ) 


1703 


LW 


provided for under a scheme. In view of the above , 
complete correspondence between physical and financial 
targets and achievements cannot be expected . The 
divergence between the two , however, can become larger 
than that normally justified on account of failure to 
anticipate difficulties, lack of co - ordination between the 
various agencies responsible for the implementation of a 
programme and want of initiative on the part of the 
financing banks and the departmental agencies . 


The growth in the pace of accretion of new business, 
which has quickened since 1967 -68, continued during 
1969- 70 . 
Withdrawal of Funds 

The physical targets under each scheme take into 
account the demand for the type of investment envisaged 
from eligible borrowers, the capacity of the financing ins 
titutions and the availability of technical guidance and 
materials and equipment needed for carrying out the 
works. Further, financial assistance provided under a 
scheme for a given programme of works. based on the 
estimated cost of labour , materials and equipment, is an 
approximation of the assistance likely to be required by 
cultivators for financing the investments under the scheme. 
The actual amount needed by the cultivators , taking into 
account their own contribution in terms of labour and 
money , may in practice be found to be less than that 


In view of the foregoing, the Corporation has been pay 
ing special attention to the timely execution of sanctioned 
schemes , along with the formulation of new schemes by 
the financing agencies and the state governments . The 
following table shows the position regarding withdrawal 
of funds by the financing banks in relation to sanctioned 
outlays , for each year, after making allowance for re 
phasing in a particular year : 

Rs. Crores 


Percentage of 
drawals to 
commitment 


Year 


No. of 
sanctioned 
schemes 
under im 
plementa 
tion at 
the end of 
each year 


Corporation s 

Debentures subscribed 
commitment in respect to and loans drawn 
of schemes according to 

from ARC 
the phasing 

During Up to the 
During Up to the the year end of the 
the year end of the 

year 
year 


During 
the year 


Up to 
the end of 
the year 


A 


th 


10 . 1 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. . . 


36 


1963-4 
1964 -5 . . 
1965 -6 . . 
1966 - 7 . . 
1967 - 8 . . 
1968- 9 . . 
1969 - 70 


4 .47 
8 .28 

9 . 40 
18 : 50 
45 .94 


4 .47 
8 .73 
14 . 30 
25 .48 


10 . 1 
56 . 1 
48 . 8 


0 .45 
4 .45 
2 .08 
5 .67 
17 - 84 
28 .60 


0 .45 
4 . 90 
6 . 98 
12 .65 
30 -49 
59 .09 


53 . 7 
22 . 1 
30 . 6 
388 


128 


19 
.6 


233 


58 . 59 


52 . 0 
64 . 1 


. . 


. 


. . 


. . 


371 


61 . 66 


92 .15 


46 . 4 


mechanization increased , in the total financial assistance 
sanctioned , as compared with the position at the end of 
the previous year . This trend towards some degree of 
diversification in the types of activities assisted by the 
Corporation is expected to gather momentum in the future , 
although the emphasis on assisting the development of 
minor irrigation works is bound to continue on account of 
their importance in the programmes of increasing agricul 
tural production within a short time. 


Thus, the percentage of withdrawals to commitments 
during the year will be seen to have been rising very s 

y satis 
factorily from 1966 -67 to 1969 -70 . The improvement in 
the implementing capacity of the financing institutions has 
continued , largely as a result of the experience gained by 
thém . Overall , the proportion of withdrawals to the 
Corporation s commitment up to 30 June 1970 , stood at 
64 per cent, as compared with 52 per cent at the end of 
the previous year. The percentage of withdrawals to com 
mitments during the year stood at 46 in 1969- 70 as 
against 39 in 1968 -69. There is , however, room for even 
further improvement. In 1969- 70 , the Corporation had to 
levy commitment charges totalling Rs. 1 . 53 lakhs. It is 
the Corporation s hope that the need for levying such 
charges to any appreciable extent will not arise in the 
future because such charges are the outcome of faulty 
scheme preparation and implementation by the financing 
banks and the departmental agencies . 


The proportion of financial assistance sanctioned to 
the total for schemes of minor irrigation , land develop 
ment and development of plantations and orchards was 
60 per cent, 23 per cent and 9 per cent as at the end of 
1969 - 70 as compared with 64 per cent, 21 per cent and 9 
per cent, respectively , as at the end of 1968 -69 . Schemes 
for construction of storage facilities and farm -mechaniza 
tion accounted for 3 per cent and 2 per cent of the total 
financial assistance sanctioned as at the end of 1969- 70 
as compared with 1 per cent and less than 1 per cent as 
at the end of 1968 -69 . There was also an increase in the 
proportion of financial assistance sanctioned for fisheries, 
dairy and poultry development at the end of 1969 - 70 , as 
compared to the position at the end of the previous year . 


Schemes Sanctioned 

The distribution of schemes sanctioned by the Corpora 
tion since its inception up to 30 June 1970 according to 
purpose , agency of finance and state is described below . 


Schemes : By Purpose 

Appendix One classifies according to their purpose the 
371 schemes sanctioned by the Corporation up to 30 June 
1970 . Schemes for the development of minor irrigation 
works , those for the development of land localized under 
irrigation projects and schemes for the development of 
plantations and orchards predominated , as was the case 
even by the end of the previous year . However, the share 
of schemes for the construction of godowns and farm 


Schemes : By Agency of Finance 

The distribution of schemes by the Corporation as at 
the end of 1969 -70 classified by their primary financing 
agencies is given in Appendix Two . Although co - opera 
tive central land development banks continued to claim 
the bulk of the financial assistance sanctioned by the 
Corporation , the share of the scheduled commercial 
banks and the state co - operative banks increased signi 
ficantly over the year , reflecting the sustained efforts 


1704 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


PART III - SEC . 4 


mo 


made by the Corporation to stimulate formulation of 
schemes by these banks for assistance by the Corpora 
tion on an area basis. The share of central land deve 
lopment banks, commercial banks and state co -operative 
banks in the financial assistance sanctioned by the 
Corporation up to 30 June 1970 was 86 . 5 per cent 8 
per cent and 5 . 5 per cent as compared to 94 per cent , 2 
per cent and 4 per cent last year. The trend towards 
diversification of assistance provided by the Corporation 
according to agency of finance is expected to continue 
although the co - operative central land development 
banks would continue to account for a substantial pro 
portion of the assistance provided by the Corporation . 


Schemes : State -wise 


The distribution of schemes sanctioned by the Corpo 
ration up to 30 June 1970 is given in Appendix Three , 


Cor 


Physical Achievements 

The tangible assets created out of the financial assis 
tance provided under the schemes sanctioned by the 
Corporation , up to the end of June 1970 , may be re 
ferred to in terms of the physical aspects of development 
which has already taken place or is under way. In the 
sphere of minor irrigation works , 63,060 wells had been 
constructed or were under construction with the help of 
financial assistance provided to cultivators up to 30 June 
1970 , under schemes sanctioned by the Corporation since 
its inception . Of these, 32 ,678 were tubewells and 30 , 382 
were dug-wells. A large proportion of these wells were 
energized with diesel or electric pumpsets . Under the 

ation s schemes , purchase of 57 .794 pumpsets had 
been financed , most of them for tubewells and wells cons 
tructed under these schemes and some, for energizing 
existing wells. On the assumption that a tubewell and 
a well would generally provide assured irrigation for 
two crops during a year over an area of about 10 acres 
and 5 acres, respectively , it can be inferred that about 
480 ,000 acres of land have been or are being brought 
under double -cropping with the help of financial assis 
tance provided so far under the Corporation s minor 
irrigation schemes. As an adjunct to the minor irriga 
tion schemes sanctioned by the Corporation , in a num 
ber of cases, assistance has been provided or laying elec 
tric lines by the state electricity boards, under an arrange 
ment by which these boards receive long - term deposits 
for this purpose from the cultivators out of the finan 
cial assistance provided by the Corporation . Similarly , 
financial assistance has been provided under some of 
these schemes for the construction of water conveyance 
systems so as to conserve water . 

Development of tubewells under the Corporation s 
schemes has so far taken place mainly in the Indo 
Gangetic plain , mainly because of the known potentiali 
ties of tubewells development in this area . In Punjab , 
Uttar Pradesh , Haryana and Bihar , installation of 
15 , 549 , 7 , 785 , 6 , 549 and 1 , 113 tubewells , respectively 
had been financed up to the end of June 1970 . In 
Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat also , installation of 1,516 
and 71 tubewells had been financed . As a result of in 
vestigations which have been or are being carried out , 
however , schemes for the installation of tubewells in 
other states have also been sanctioned or are under con 
sideration . The development in this regard , therefore , 
can be expected to show a greater degree of diversifica 
tion in the coming years . 

Construction of open wells under the Corporation s 
schemes has been relatively more widespread . The num 
ber of wells constructed or under construction in the 
schemes refinanced by the Corporation at the end of 
June 1970 came to 10 , 769 in Andhra Pradesh , 4 , 008 
in Uttar Pradesh , 3 , 989 in Gujarat, 2 , 134 in Maharash 
tra , 1 ,824 in Mysore , 1 ,510 in Haryana , 1 , 357 in Rajas 
than , 202 in Kerala and 69 in Bihar . 


Development of land localized under large irrigation 
projects has been another important activity which the 
Corporation has helped to finance. These lands are 
generally under rain - fed cultivation before they are 
brought under the command of irrigation projects . They 
are often undulating and require levelling , bunding , etc ., 
and have to be provided with water conveyance systems 
in order to make them fit for receiving irrigation . Lack : 
of atteniion to this aspect and the inadequacy of finan 
cial assistance for the purpose have contributed to the 
under - utilization of the irrigation potential of such pro 
jects. Under the Corporation s schemes , development 
of 554 , 000 acres under such projects had already taken 
place or was in progress , as at the end of June 1970 . 
Of these , 302 ,000 acres were in Andhra Pradesh under 
the Nagarjunasagar and Tungabhadra High Level Canal 
Projects 145 ,000 acres in Mysore under the Tungabha 
dra , Bhadra and Ghataprabha Projects; 84 , 000 acres in 
Tamil Nadu , under the Parambikulam Aliyar Project; 
17 ,000 acres in Maharashtra , under the Bor , Nalganga 
and Ghod -Gangapur Projects ; 2 ,840 acres in Bihar , 
under the Kosi Project; 1, 437 acres in Madhya Pradesh , 
under the Chambal Project ; 1, 308 acres in Orissa , under 
the Hirakud Project and 673 acres in Rajasthan under 
the Chambal scheme. 

The Corporation has also been assisting the develop 
ment of plantations and orchards . The help provided by 
the Corporation in this sphere covers a variety of plan 
tation and orchard crops. New plantations and orchards 
covering an area of 9 ,644 acres under coconuts , 3 , 326 
acres under coffee , 2 ,699 acres under tea , 1 , 787 acres 
under arecanuts, 1, 704 acres under mangoes , 1 , 389 
acres under oranges , 1 ,619 acres under rubber , 405 acres 
under grapes , 98 acres under citrus fruits other than 
oranges and 80 acres under cardamom had been or were 
being developed with the help of financial assistance al 
ready provided under the Corporation s schemes up to 
the end of June 1970 

The financial assistance provided under the Corpora 
tion s schemes for the development of fisheries , construc 
tion of storage facilities and mechanization of farming 
had led to the acquisition of new capital assets by culti 
vators and fishermen . In North and South Kanara Dis 
tricts of Mysore , 285 mechanized fishing boats had been 
constructed under the Corporation s schemes and 10 
such boats were constructed in Madras and Chingleput 
Districts of Tamil Nadu . Cultivators in Karnal Dis 
trict of Haryana and in the area of the Kosi Project in 
Bihar had purchased 235 and 59 tractors, respectively , 
under the Corporation s schemes. In South Kanara Dis 
trict of Mysore , cultivators had purchased 126 power 
tillers under these schemes. In Punjab , construction of 
87 godowns at various mandi centres had been complet 
ed , with a capacity of 156 ,000 tonnes . This construc 
tion of storage facilities is being assisted by the ARC , 
particularly with a view to facilitating the orderly 
marketing of the additional production of agricultural 
commodities under the schemes sanctioned by it . 

OPERATIONS DURING 1969-70 
Sanctioned Schenies 

The Corporation sanctioned 147 schemes during 
1969 - 70 of which 5 were withdrawn subsequently by 
the financing institutions. The financial assistance sanc 
tioned under the remaining 142 schemes was for about 
Rs. 93 crores . the ARC s commitment thereunder being 
about Rs. 71 crores . The distribution of these 142 
schemes by purpose , agency of finance and state , is re 
ferred to below . 
Schemes : By Purpose 

The following able gives the distribution of schemes 
sanctioned by the Corporation during the year 1969 - 70 , 
according to purpose . 


Part III - SEC . 41 


1705 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


LU 
- 


Period : 1 July 1969 to 30 June 1970 


Rs Crores 


- 


- 


- 


WA 


Type of Schemes 


No. of 
Schemes 


Financial 
Assistance 


ARC S 
Commitment 


State Govern 

ments and 
Banks /Parties 
Commitment 


Minor Irrigation 


43 .81 


4 . 87 


Land Reclamation 


16 .03 


9 . 96 


48 .68 
25 . 99 
5 .80 
0 .01 


Plantation and Horticulture 
Poultry Farming 
Dairy 


4 . 23 
0 .005 


1 .57 
0 .005 


0 .04 


0 . 01 


Godowns 


5 :52 


1 .92 


0 . 03 
3 .60 
0 :58 
1 . 25 


Fisheries 


1 .77 


1 . 19 


Farm Mechanization 


4 .97 


3 .72 


142 


92 .78 


70 .915 


21 .865 


Under the minor irrigation schemes sanctioned during 
the year , 46 , 484 open wells and 3, 983 tubewells are to 
be constructed or renovated . Finance will also be provid 
ed for purchase of 48 ,613 diesel and electric pumpsets . 
An amount of Rs. 3. 70 crores was sanctioned during 
the year for deposits with the state electricity boards in 
order to enable them to provide electric connexions to 
the wells of cultivators . 

Eleven land reclamation schemes were sanctioned in 
Bihar, Madhya Pradesh , Orissa, Punjab , Tamil Nadu 
and Uttar Pradesh involving development of 309, 800 
acres of land in the command areas of the Kosi (Bihar ) , 
Chambal (Madhya Pradesh ) , Parambikulam Oliyar 
( Tamil Nadu ) and Tarai Seeds Development Project in 
Uttar Pradesh as well as few small irrigation projects in 
Punjab and Orissa . Under 54 schemes sanctioned for 
plantations and horticulture , 41 ,662 acres under tea , 


coffee , rubber , cardamom , coconut , cashewnut, apples 
and grapevine are to be developed . Under 7 farm mecha 
nization schemes, 1 ,656 tractors will be provided to culti 
vators . Three schemes for the construction of storage 
facilities were sanctioned in Gujarat, Punjab and Uttar 
Pradesh under which 256 godowns with a capacity of 
452 , 000 tonnes will be constructed . Three fisheries 
schemes were sanctioned in Tamil Nadu and Maharash 
tra under which 115 mechanized boats and 40 trawlers 
will be supplied to fishermen along with boat-building 
yard , freezing plant and transport vehicles . 


Schemes : By Agency of Finance 

The distribution of schemes sanctioned by the Corpo 
ration during the year according to the agency of 
finance is given below : 


Period : 1 July 1969 to 30 June 1970 


Rs. Crores 


Agencies of Finance 


No. of 
Schemes 


Financial 
Assistance 


Corporation s 
Commitment 


State Govern 
ments and 
Banks /Parties 
Commitment 


. 


.. 


. 


69 . 18 


59 . 18 


Central Land Development Banks 
State Co -operative Banks 
Scheduled Commercial Banks .. 


10 . 00 
4 :18 


7 . 42 


3 . 24 


.. 


16 . 18 


8 . 50 


7 .68 


142 


92 . 78 


70 .92 


21 . 86 


ent 


Out of the 85 schemes to be fulfilled through central 
land development banks, 62 were for the developm 
of minor irrigation works, 9 for land reclamation , 8 
for plantation and horticulture and 6 for farm mechani 
zation . Of the 50 schemes to be refinanced through 
scheduled commercial banks, 45 were for the develop 
ment of plantations . The remaining five schemes com 
prised two for land development, one for purchase of 
tractors, one for dairy farming and one for poultry farm 
ing. Of the seven schemes sanctioned through the state 
co -operative banks, three were for construction of 
godowns , three for development of fisheries and one for 
horticulture, 


Of the total financial assistance sanctioned during the 
year , schemes to be implemented through land develop 
ment banks , commercial banks and state co -operative 
banks accounted for 75 per cent, 17 per cent and 8 per 
cent respectively , the corresponding percentages in res 
pect of schemes sanctioned during 1968 -69 being 96 , 2 
and 2 respectively . 


Schemes : State-wise 

The distribution of schemes sanctioned by the Corpo . 
ration during 1969 -70 , according to the states is indicated 
below : 


1706 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


[PART 1]I— Sec . 4 


MLN 


tt 


Period : 1 July 1969 to 30 June 1970 


Rs. Crores 


Uw 


- 


Name of State 


No . of 
Schemes 


Financial 
Assistance 


Corporation s 
Commitment 


State Govern 
ments , Banks 
and Parties 
Commitment 


Andhra Pradesh 


6 . 20 


5 .58 


0 .62 


Assam 


0 . 18 


0 .09 


Bihar 


0 . 27 
6 . 23 
14 .26 


1 . 48 


4 . 75 
12 . 10 
1 . 89 


2 . 14 


Gujarat 
Haryana 
Jammu & Kashmir 
Kerala 
Madhya Pradesh 


0 .95 


0 .71 


0 -21 


0 .67 
3 . 27 
5 . 94 


2 . 16 
0 . 25 
0 .24 
0 .46 
0 . 36 
0 .83 
1 :31 


2 .91 


Maharashtra 


5 . 11 


Mysore 


10 . 40 


9 . 09 


Orissa 


0 .33 


Punjab 


1 : 13 


0 . 37 


Rajasthan 
Tamil Nadu 


1 . 33 
6 . 26 

3 .70 
11 . 21 
19 .90 
0 .05 


1 .00 
5 . 13 
3 . 33 
9 .61 
9 . 28 
0 .04 


1 .60 


Uttar Pradesh 


10 .62 


West Bengal 


0 .01 


142 


92 . 78 


70 . 92 


21 .86 


The gross disbursements made by the Agricultural Re 
finance Corporation during the year on account of sanc 
tioned schemes amounted to Rs. 28 .60 crores as against 
Rs. 17 .84 crores during the previous year. The disburse 


ments made during the year according to state , agency 
of finance and purpose of schemes, is given in Appendix 
Four. The gross amount disbursed by the Corporation 
during each year since its inception is indicated below : 


Rs. Crores 


w 


Year 


Amount disbursed 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 - 67 
1967 -68 
1968 -69 
1969- 70 


0 . 45 
4 .45 
2 . 08 
5 .67 


17 . 84 


28 .60 


RA 


59 .09 


WORLD BANK AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS 


Rephasing 

Some of the schemes sanctioned by the Corporation in 
earlier years were rephased or revised during the year 
at the request of the financing banks. The Corporation 
approved revision of 56 schemes sanctioned through the 
land development banks . The revision related to the ex 
tension of the phasing , reallocation of the physical pro 
gramme or an increase or decrease in these programmes. 
The revision or the rephasing of the schemes was caused 
by factors such as paucity of technical personnel, equip 
ment or materials, revisions in the cost of development , 
smaller or larger loans required by cultivators and inade 
quate preparatory steps taken by the financing banks and 
the state governments . 


As referred to earlier , the World Bank , in consultation 
with the Government of India , has agreed to consider the 
provision of financial assistance through the Corporation , 
for promoting capital investment in agriculture . The 
assistance will be provided by IBRD and IDA to the 
Government of India . The Corporation will receive 
loans from the Government of vidia , representing IBRD 
and IDA credits , on the usual terms and conditions . 


Agreements have been reached in respect of three 
Projects , namely the Tarai Seeds Project in Uttar Pradesh , 
the Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project and the Punjab 
Agricultural Credit Project. While the Tarai Seeds Pro 
ject became effective during 1969 - 70 . the Gujarat and the 
Punjab Projects are due to become effective during 1970 
71 . The amount of these credits and the purposes for 
which they may be drawn upon , are indicated below ; 


In the case of commercial banks and state co -operative 
banks, 9 schemes and 4 schemes respectively , were re 
phased or revised during the year . 


PART III — Sec . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1707 


TARAI SEEDS PROJECT 


Category 


Project 


Amount from IBRD 


Amount in 
U . S . Dollars 

(Million ) 


Amount 
Rupees 
Lakhs 


Amount in 
U . S . Dollars 

(Million ) 


Amount 
Rupees 
Lakhs 


Farm Development and Machinery . . 
Processing Plants ( Tarai Development Corporation ) 
Electrification 


14 . 61 
2 . 97 
0 .81 


1096 . 00 
223 . 00 
60 . 00 


7 . 596 
0 . 541 
0 .261 


570 .00 
40 .00 
20 . 00 


. . 


. . 


18 -39 


1379 .00 


Total Investment Cost . . 
Additional Exchange Provision 
Fertilizers 


8 . 398 
0 .602 
4 . 000 


630 . 00 

45 .00 
300 .00 


4 .00 


300 .00 


TOTAL 


. . 


22 : 39 


1679 .00 


13 . 000 


975 . 00 


* Included in individual items 


GUJARAT PROJECT 


Category 


Amount in 
U . S . Dollars 


Amount 
Rs Lakhs 


Tractors, Tractor spare parts , Harvesters , Discs and Plough Bottoms . . 
Minor Irrigation Equipment & facilities 
Consultant Services . . . . . . . . .. .. 


7 ,400 , 000 
27, 300 ,000 

300 , 000 


555 .00 
2047 .50 

22 :50 


35 , 000 ,000 


2625 .00 


PUNJAB PROJECT 


Category 


Amount in 
U . S . Dollars 


Amount 
Rs Lakhs 


Imported Tractors and spare parts 
Imported self-propelled harvesters and spare parts 
Imported discs and plough bottoms 
Tractor-drawn harvesters and spare parts . . 
Unallocated 


: 
: 
: 


24 ,000 , 000 

600,000 
1 ,200, 000 

500 ,000 
1 ,200 ,000 


1800 . 00 

45 .00 
90 . 00 
37 . 50 
90 . 00 


: 


: 


27,500 , 000 


2062 . 50 


The Tarai Seeds Project is for the production of 
seeds of high yielding varieties. The seeds will be produc 
ed by cultivators as well as the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural 
University Pantnagar, in the Tarai area of Uttar Pradesh . 
The lands of the cultivators and of the University coming 
under the Project will be developed by bunding levelling , 
installation of tubewells , laying out of water conveyance 
systems, etc . , so as to make them fit for growing quality 
seeds of high yielding varieties. Under the Gujarat 
Project, a large number of wells and tubeweils will be 
installed and energized . The Project also envisages sup 
ply of about 2 , 200 tractors to farmers in the state , parti 
cularly where the intensity of cropping can be sign 
ficantly increased with the use of tractors . Tht Punjab 
Project is for mechanization if farming with a view to 
increasing the cropping intensity on farms coming under 
the Project . The number of tractors to be provided 
under the Project will be about 8 ,000 . In addition , about 
220 self-propelled hásters will also be provided , with 
a view to expediting the harvesting of the large wheat 
crop in the state . 


each Project. The financing under the Project will have 
to be completed by 30 June 1974 in the case of Tarai 
and Gujarat Projects and by 31 December 1972 under 
the Punjab Project . 

The Agreements reached with the IBRD / IDA deal , 
among other items, with the terms and conditions on 
which refinance would be provided by the Corporation 
to the financing institutions and by these institutions to 
the ultimate borrowers. Some of the important features 
of these Agreements are the discipline which will be 
imposed on the ordinary lending programmes of the land 
development banks , the building of technical cells in the 
banks and the setting up of groundwater cells . The 
Gujarat Project is to be implemented entirely through 
the Gujarat State Co - operative Land Development Bank , 
Under the Punjab Project, at least 80 per cent of the 
investments will be financed through the Punjab State 
Co - operative Land Mortgage Bank and not more than 20 
per cent through commercial banks. The entire finan 
cing under the Tarai Project will be done through the 
State Bank of India . 


The assistance to be provided by IBRD / IDA will go 
to finance part of the total investments under each Pro 
ject. The proportions of the cost of different types of 
investments to be financed with the help of IBRD / IDA 
credits have been indicated in the Agreements relating to 
299G1/70 - 3 


Schemes Under Study 

The Corporation had under its consideration 254 
schemes at the end of 1968 -69. It received 226 schemes 


1708 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


PART III -- SEC , 4 


NA 

Oh 


nem 


during 1969 - 70 , of which 125 were to be implemented 
through land development banks. 81 through scheduled 
commercial banks and 20 through state co - operative 
banks . During the year , economic feasibility studies were 
completed in respect of 126 schemes by the officers of the 
Corporation . The Corporation secured technical feasibility 
studies of 125 schemes from the technical experts on its 
panel and also through the Exploratory Tubewells Organi 
zation , the Geological Survey of India and the Tea Board , 
Coffee Board , Rubber Board and Cardamom Board . 


by the Governor of the Reserve Bank and since initiated 
by the Government of India . The Corporation was re 
cently decided to provide full refinance up to 30 June 
1971 in respect of viable schemes to agricultural develop 
ment initiated by small farmers development agencies and 
which might be refinanced by it either through central 
land development banks or through commercial banks. 


An important extension of the Corporation s activity 
is the study of utilization of finance under sanctioned 
schemes which have come into operation at least partially . 
Suggestions for improving the implementation of schemes 
emerging from these studies were communicated to the 
state governments and the financing banks for necessary 
action . 


The facility offered to the state governments to make 
a reduced contribution of not less than 10 per cent to the 
special development debentures to be floated by the 
central land development banks for financing minor irri 
gation schemes as against the contribution of 25 per cent 
required from them under other types of schemes which 
was to expire on 30 June 1970 was extended by one 
more year , i.e ., up to 30 June 1971 . 

The guidelines for preparation of minor irrigation 
schemes were revised to help the financing banks and 
the state governments in preparing detailed schemes con 
taining important data on the economics of the schemes 
and the relevant hydrogeological data . 


During the year 1969 - 70 , 147 schemes were sanctioned 
by the Corporation - - 85 from the land developirent banks , 
7 from state co - operative banks and 55 from scheduled 
commercial banks. The schemes withdrawn during the 
year or found to be prima facie unacceptable totalled 
108 — 68 from central land development banks , 36 from 
scheduled commercial banks and 4 from state co -operative 
banks . Thus , as on 30 June 1970 , 225 schemes involving 
financial assistance of Rs. 217 .56 crores were under the 
consideration of the Corporation . The schemes under con 
sideration included 143 schemes from land development 
banks under which financial assistance of Rs. 197 .72 
crores is envisaged . 52 schemes from the scheduled 
commercial banks involving financial assistance of 
Rs. 3 .09 crores and 30 schemes from the state co - opera 
tive banks involving financial assistance of Rs. 16 . 75 
crores. The distribution of schemes under the consi 
deration of the Corporation as on 30 June 1970 , according 
to state and purpose of development is given in Appendix 
Five . 


Commercial Banks 

In order to help commercial banks to obtain refinance 
from the Corporation quickly , particularly in respect of 
the schemes received from individual entrepreneurs , 
partnership firms and companies , the Corporation has now 
entrusted the work of scrutiny of schemes for an amount 
not exceeding Rs. 5 . 00 lakhs to its regional offices located 
in the respective states . Earlier , the Corporation had 
prescribed one form of application for refinance for all 
purposes. The Corporation , during the year , prescribed 
separate application forms for different purposes to 
enable the commercial banks to furnish specific infor 
mation relevant to the particular type of scheme. The 
form of application for schemes relating to the develop 
ment of plantations such as tea , coffee , rubber and carda 
mom involving a sum of Rs. 5 ,000 lakhs or less was 
simplified to suit the needs of small planters . 


ADMINISTRATION AND ACCOUNTS 


Promotional Efforts 

The Chairman as also the Managing Director of the 
Corporation held discussions with the representatives of 
the states with a view to promoting the formulation of 
new schemes and expediting the carrying out of schemes 
already sanctioned , 

The Bankers Training College of the Reserve Bank of 
India in Bombay and also the Co - operative Bankers 
Training College in Poona hold courses in agricultural 
financing for the benefit of officers of co - operative and 
commercial banks. Officers of the Corporation delivered 
lecturers during such courses with a view to acquainting 
the participants with the working of the Corporation . 
Two special courses on project planning and appraisal 
were also held at Poona for the benefit of the managerial 
staff of the land development banks , Officers of the 
Corporation were associated with these courses . 


Regional Offices 

The Corporation had earlier opened seven regional 
offices at Bangalore , Calcutta , Chandigarh , Coimbatore , 
Hyderabad , Kanpur and New Delhi. It established six 
more regional offices during the year at Ahmedabad , 
Bhopal, Bhubaneswar , Jaipur, Patna and Trivandrum , 
raising the total number of regional offices to thirteen . 
The regional office of the Corporation at Coimbatore was 
shifted to Madras during the year. A separate unit to 
look after the schemes from Maharashtra was established 
in Bombay . 


With a view to assisting the financing institutions and 
the state governments in formulating schemes which could 
be refianced by the Corporation , particularly in areas 
which had not availed themselves or refinance facilities 
from the Corporation significantly , the Corporation 
opened new regional offices at Ahmedabad for Gujarat, 
Bhopal for Madhya Pradesh , Bhubaneswar for Orissa , 
Jaipur for Rajasthan , Patna for Bihar and Trivandrum 
for Kerala . 


In order to cope with the increase in the work , steps 
were taken during the year to strengthen the staff of the 
Corporation by increasing the sanctioned strength , es 
pecially at the officer level, and taking on deputation , 
officers from the state governments . Further , a small 
Technical Division has been created in the head office of 
the Corporation . This expansion and strengthening has 
resulted i additional expenditure on staff during this year 
and this will continue in the future . 


LOAN POLICIES 
Land Development Banks 

The Corporation hopes to take an active part in reagrd 
to the scheme for small farmers recommended by the 
All -India Rural Credit Review Committee ( 1969 ) set up 


Membership 

Two more scheduled commercial banks namely , the 
Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Ltd . and the Sangli Bank 
Ltd ., became members of the Corporation during the 
year . The Haryana State Co - operative Bank was regis 
tered as a shareholder of the Corporation during this year . 
The contribution of various categories of shareholders 
to the share capital of the Corporation as on 30 June 
1970 was as follows : 


PART III — SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1709 


- 


- 


- 


Am 


- 


- 


- 


w 


Rs. Lakhs 


Institution 


of 


No. of 
Shareholders 


Section 
under which 
Shares held 


No. of 
Shares 


Value 
Shares 


Reserve Bank of India 


: 


2 , 500 

442 


Central Land Development Banks 


5 ( 2)( a ) 
5(4 ) 
5(2)(b) 


250 . 00 

44 . 20 
135 .60 


: 


1, 356 


State Co -operative Banks . . 
Scheduled Commercial Banks 
The Life Insurance Corporation of India 


::: 


. . 


5 ( 2)( c) 


702 


70 - 20 


Other insurance and investment companies 
Co -operative Insurance Societies . . 


:: 


5 ,000 


500 .00 


Board of Directors 


A list of shareholders as on 30 June 1970 is given in 
Appendix Six . 
Accounts 

It will be observed from the statement of accounts 
given in Appendix Nine that after meeting all expenses 
and tax liabilities the Corporation made a net profit of 
Rs. 30 .27 lakhs during 1969- 70 . The total net profit 
available for appropriation is Rs. 30 , 27 ,526 . 18 , including 
undistributed profit of Rs, 228 . 84 carried forward from 
the previous year, which your Directors recommend to 
be dealt with as under : 

Rs. 
To writing off the balance of preliminary ex 
penses in full 

9, 431 71 
To Reserve Fund 

8 ,93, 000 .00 
Towards payment of dividend at 44 per cent 
per annum to shareholders 

21, 25 ,000 .00 
Undistributed 

94 .47 


Nine meetings of the Board of Directors were held dur 
ing the year . The Government of India nominated Shri 
T . P . Singh and Shri K , Ramamurthy on the Board of 
Directors of the Corporation in the place of Shri B . R . 
Patel and Shri D . N . Ghosh , respectively , in terms of 
section 10 ( c ) of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation 
Act. Shri K . Madhava Das was appointed as the Manag 
ing Director of the Corporation for a period of one year 
with effect from 16 May 1969. His term of office was 
extended up to 31 December 1971 , 


The Directors place on record their deep appreciation 
of the valuable services rendered to the Corporation by 
Shri B . R . Patel and Shri D . N . Ghosh . 


On Behalf of the Directors 

P . N . DAMRY 

Chairman 


30 ,27, 526 . 18 


15 August 1970 


APPENDIX ONE 


DISTRIBUTION OF SCHEMES SANCTIONED BY THE CORPORATION UP TO 30 JUNE 1970 ACCORDING TO PURPOSE * 


(Rs. in Crores ) 


No. of 
Schemes 


Purpose 


Financial Assistance ARC S 

Commit 
Amount % to Totalment 


State Loans 
Govern drawn from 
ment s and deben 
Bank s and tures subs 
Party s Com - cribed to 
mitments by the ARC 


1 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


186 


39 


Development of Minor Irrigation 
Development of Land . . . . 
Farm Mechanization with Tractors and Power Tillers 
Soil Conservation 
Development of Plantations and Orchards . . 
Poultry Farming 
Development of Fisheries 
Dairy Development . . . . . . . . . . 
Construction of Storage Facilities 


156 . 32 
59 .30 
5 . 52 
2 . 38 
22 . 24 

0 .51 
4 .98 
0 . 86 
7 .40 


115 

6 


60 . 23 
22 . 85 
2 . 13 
0 .92 
8 - 57 
0 . 20 
1 . 92 
0 .33 
2 . 85 


140 . 59 
42 : 37 
4 . 14 
2 . 14 
17 .60 
0 :44 
3 .50 
0 : 31 
3 . 80 


15 . 73 
16 . 93 
1 : 38 
0 . 24 
4 .64 
0 .07 
1 .48 
0 .55 
3 .60 


35 . 16 
15 .25 
0 . 30 
1 . 95 
3 . 57 
0 .07 


0 .92 


1 . 87 


4 . 90 


371 


259 .51 


214 .89 


44 .62 


59 .09 


UTAMU 


w 


* After making adjustments for schemes withdrawn and rephased 


1710 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 ( KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


[Part III - SEC. 4 


- 


- 


APPENDIX TWO 


DISTRIBUTION OF SCHEMES SANCTIONED BY THE CORPORATION UP TO 30 JUNE 1970 

ACCORDING TO AGENCIES OF FINANCE* 


Rs. Crores 


- 


No . of 
Schemes 


Type of Financing Agency 


Financial Assistance ARC s 

Commit 
Amount % to Totalment 


State 
Govern 
ment s / 
Banks/ 
Party s / 
Commit 
ments 

6 


Loans 
drawn 
from and 

debentures 
subscribed 
to by the 

ARC 


Nam 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


216 


54 .60 


Central Land Development Banks 
State Co -operative Banks .. 


.. 


193 - 58 
9 .33 


. . 


. . 


224 . 57 
14 :41 
20 :53 


16 


86 -53 
5 : 56 
7 .91 


5 


30 . 99 

.08 
8 :55 


2 . 85 


Scheduled Commercial Banks . . 


94 


11 . 98 


1 .64 


371 


259 .51 


214 .89 


44 . 62 


59 .09 


* After making adjustments for schemes withdrawn and rephased . 


APPENDIX THREE 


DISTRIBUTION OF SCHEMES SANCTIONED BY THE CORPORATION UP TO 30 JUNE 1970 


ACCORDING TO STATES * 


Rs. Crores 


No . of 
Schemes 


% to Total 


State /Union Territory 


Financial Assistance Corpo 

-- ration s 
Amount % to Total Commit 

ment 


State 
Govern 
ment s 
Bank s / 
Party s 
Commit 
ments 


Loans 
drawn from 
and deben 
tures subs 
cribed to 
by the ARC 


3 


4 


7 


Andhra Pradesh 


38 39 


14 .78 


5 . 15 


14 . 16 


Assam 


1 . 13 


0 . 44 


0 .11 
2 .23 


23 . 96 

1 .24 
1 . 34 


Bihar 


Delhi 


1 


0 . 10 


3 . 33 


5 . 72 


13 . 79 

0.09 
23 .92 
14 . 27 

1 . 85 
5 .84 


Gujarat . . 
Haryana . . . . 
Jammu & Kashmir 
Kerala . . . . . 
Madhya Pradesh . . 
Maharashtra 


9 .58 


33 .24 

1 .02 
11 : 56 

0 .09 
20 :59 
12 .69 

1 . 39 
4 .49 
13 : 55 
12 . 86 
25 .86 

1 : 55 
28 .83 

6 . 71 
20 .70 


5 - 30 
0. 03 
9 .21 
5 . 49 
0 .71 
2 . 25 
5 .89 
5 .70 
12 . 05 

0 .77 
12 :50 
2 . 91 
9 .48 
11 . 66 


1 . 58 
0 .46 
1 .35 
1 .55 
1 . 93 
5 .44 


15 . 10 


0 . 73 
0 . 79 
0 .06 
3 : 38 
5 .66 
0 .53 
0 .52 
0 . 80 
5 . 38 
4 .27 
0 .22 
13 .07 
0 .84 
4 .88 
3 .78 
0 .02 


0 .90 
0 .88 
1 : 35 
9 . 10 
7 .23 
0 : 37 
22 . 12 
1 : 42 


Mysore 


Orissa 


0 . 45 


3 .62 


14 .79 
31 : 30 

2 . 00 
32 .45 

7 : 56 
24 .60 
30 . 26 
2 .17 


Punjab 
Rajasthan . . 
Tamil Nadu 
Uttar Pradesh 
West Bengal 


0 .85 
3 . 90 


8 . 26 


18 . 15 


12 . 11 


6 . 40 


0 .84 


1 .61 


0 . 56 


0 .03 


371 


259 - 51 


214 .89 


44 .62 


59 - 09 


* After making adjustments for schemes withdrawn and rephased 


PART III - SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1711 


APPENDIX FOUR 


AMOUNT OF DEBENTURES SUBSCRIBED TO AND LOANS DRAWN FROM THE CORPORATION DURING THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 1970 ACCORDING 

TO STATE , AGENCY OF FINANCE AND PURPOSE OF SCHEMES 


AMOUNT OF DEBENTURES SUBSCRIBED TO AND LOANS DR 


Rs. Lakhs 


Name of the State 


Financing Agency 


Nature of Schemes 


Total Debentures State 
amount of subscribed Govern 
Debentures to and loans ment s , 
floated and drawn from Bank s and 
loans raised the ARC Party s 

contribution 


1 


2 


3 


4 


Andhra Pradesh 


479 . 800 


431 . 820 


Central Land Development Minor Irrigation 
Bank 
-do 

Land Reclamation 


47 . 980 
48 .059 


223 . 500 


175 . 441 


703 . 300 


607 . 261 


96039 


Assam 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. . 


Scheduled 
Bank 


Commercial Plantation /Horticulture 


4 . 000 


4 .000 


Bihar 


. . 


. . 


.. 


. . Centr 

Central Land 
ment Bank 


Develop - Minor Irrigation 


68 .000 


61 200 


6 . 800 


Delhi 


State Co - operative Bank Poultry 


6 .420 


Delhi .. .. . 


6 .420 


Gujarat . . 


. . 


.. 


. . Central Land 

ment Bank 


Develop - Minor Irrigation 


146 . 000 


131 . 400 


14 . 600 


Haryana 


Haryana 


.. 


. . 


.. 


do 


Minor Irrigation 
Plantation /Horticulture 
Tractor 


267 . 500 
14 . 700 
15 .000 


240 .750 
11 .025 
11 .250 


- do 


26 . 750 
3 .675 
3 . 750 


297 . 200 


263 .025 


34 175 


Jammu & Kashmir 


Plantation /Horticulture 


Central Land Develop - 
ment Bank 


27 . 000 


20 - 250 


6 .750 


Kerala 


. . 


. . 


. . 


- do 

- do 
Scheduled 
Bank 


Minor Irrigation 

Plantation /Horticulture 
Commercial Plantation /Horticulture 


10 . 000 
18 .000 
12 - 485 


9 . 000 
13 . 500 
12 .485 


1 . 000 
4 . 500 


40 -485 


34 . 985 


5 . 500 


Madhya Pradesh 


. . 


. . Central Land D 

Central Land Development Minor Irrigation 
Bank 

Land Reclamation 


50 - 500 
4 . 500 


45 .450 

3 . 375 


5 .050 
1 - 125 


55 . 000 


48 - 825 


6 .175 


Maharashtra 


Central Land Development Minor Irrigation 
Bank 

Soil Conservation 


341 .771 
45 .580 


307 .596 
41 022 


34 - 174 
4 :558 


387 . 350 


348 618 


38 . 732 


Continued 


1712 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[PART IH - SEC , 4 


1 


Rs. Lakhs 


2 


3 


5 


6 


Mysore 


32 . 700 
74 . 900 


29 .430 
56 . 175 
31 -800 


3 . 270 
18 . 725 


42 . 400 


10 .600 


Central Land Develop - Minor Irrigation 
ment Bank 

Land Reclamation 

Plantation /Horticulture 
State Co -operative Bank Fisheries 
Scheduled Commercial Power Tillers 
Bank 

Minor Irrigation 
-do 

Plantation /Horticulture 


31 .150 


31 . 150 


4 . 350 * 
8 .080 
5 . 350 


4 .350 
8 .080 
5 .350 


198 . 930 


166 . 335 


32 .595 


Orissa 


. . 


. 


. . 


. . 


Central Land Development Land Reclamation 
Bank 

Plantation /Horticulture 


2 .810 
18 .000 


2 . 107 
16 . 200 


0 . 703 
1 .800 


20 .810 


18 . 307 


2 . 503 


Punjab 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. 


Central Land Development Minor Irrigation 
Bank 

Land Reclamation 
State Co -operative Bank Godowns 


629 . 760 

0 . 240 
87 200 


566 . 784 

0 . 180 
87 . 200 


62 . 976 
0 . 060 


717 200 


654 . 164 


63 .036 


Rajasthan 


Central Land Development Minor Irrigation 
Bank 

Land Reclamation 


83 . 400 
2 .200 


75 .060 
1 .650 


8 .340 
0 . 550 


85 .600 


76 .710 


8 . 890 


Tamil Nadu 


79 .750 
70 . 000 


7 .975 
17 .500 


71 - 775 
52 . 500 
11 : 550 
22 - 261 


15 .400 


3 .85 


Central Land Development Minor Irrigation 
Bank 

Land Reclamation 

Plantation /Horticulture 
Scheduled Commercial Plantation Horticulture 
Bank 
Stale Co-operative Bank Fisheries 


22 - 261 


4 . 010 


4 . 010 


191 .421 


162 .096 


29 -325 


Uttar Pradesh 


. . 


. 


. . 


283 . 970 


255 - 573 


28 . 397 


Central Land Development Minor Irrigation 
Bank 


. . 


.. 


1 . 300 


0 . 975 


West Bengal 


. . Central Land Development Plantation /Horticulture 


0 . 325 


Bank 


Grand Total 


3233 986 


2860 - 144 


373 - 842 


Continued 


1713 


PART III — Sec . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892 ) 


ht 


OLIE 


NA 


APPENDIX FIVE 


DISTRIBUTION OF SCHEMES UNDER CONSIDERATION OF THE CORPORATION AS ON 30 JUNE 1970 

ACCORDING TO STATE AND PURPOSE 


Rs. Lakhs 


- 


L 


Purpose 


No. of 
Schemes 


Financial ARC s 
Assistance contribution 


State 


NA 


2 


3 


1 


L 


Andhra Pradesh 


Minor Irrigation 
Land Reclamation 
Tractor 


1261 - 30 
516 . 80 
750 .00 


1135 . 17 

367 . 10 
562 . 50 


24 


2528 . 10 


2064 . 77 


54 - 30 


27 . 15 


. . 


. . 


Assam 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. . Plantation /Horticulture 


. . 


Bihar 


Godowns 


Bihar 


.. 


.. 


.. 


. . 


. . 


.. 


. . 


. Godowns 


229 . 10 

74 . 25 
168 .09 


229 . 10 

74 . 25 
151 28 


Minor Irrigation 


471 . 44 


454 -63 


15 . 96 


7 . 98 


Delhi 
Gujarat 


. . 
. . 


. . 
. . 


.. 
.. 


.. 
. . 


.. 
. . 


.. 
. . 


.. 
. . 


.. Poultry 
. . Minor Irrigation 

Tractor 


843 .00 
165 . 00 


758 . 70 
123 . 75 


17 


1008 .00 


882 - 45 


ཟ་|།--།-བ་---༈༈--༈གབ། 


19 .41 


Haryana 


Godowns 
Dairy 
Minor Irrigation 


19 . 41 
60 .00 
298 . 00 


4500 


268 . 20 


377 .41 


332 .61 


39 .00 


Himachal Pradesh . . 


. . 


.. 


. . 


.. 


29 .25 


. . 


.. Plantation /Horticulture 


Kerala 


.. 


. . 


Kerala 


.. 


. . 


. . 


. . 


.. 


. 


Land Reclamation 


Soil Conservation 
Plantation /Horticulture 


56 .00 
25 . 00 
34 .06 


42 .00 
18 . 75 
22 . 86 


115 . 06 


83 .61 


mm 


Madhya Pradesh .. 


.. 


. . 


. . 


.. 


. . 


.. Godowns 


193 .00 
159 . 00 
807 . 53 
76 . 68 


144 . 75 
159 . 00 
726 . 78 
56 . 76 


0 


Minor Irrigation 
Tractor 


0 


1235 - 21 


1087 . 29 


Maharashtra 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. . 


.. 


. . Fisheries 

Dairy 
Plantation /Horticulture 
Minor Irrigation 
Poultry 
Land Reclamation 


wordwat1 


433 . 25 

2 : 00 
41 .00 


17 .54 
55 . 33 
105 .00 
390 - 10 

1 .00 
30 - 75 


The 


731 - 96 


599 .72 


Mysore 


. 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. 


Godowns 
Plantation /Horticulture 
Minor Irrigation 
Land Reclamation 
Soil Conservation 
Dairy 


437 .42 
135 .64 
1350 -42 

35 .02 
110 . 88 

2 .00 


328 .07 

95 .40 
1185 .05 

26 27 
83 . 16 


1 .00 


36 


2071 . 38 


1718 .95 


Continued 


1714 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


(PART III — Sec . 4 


- - 


WALL 


w 


JAN 


Rs. Lakhs 


State 


Purpose 


No . of 
Schemes 


Financial ARC s 
Assistance contribution 


2 


5 


Orissa 


. . 


.. 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. . 


77 . 28 


. . Plantation /Horticulture 

Minor Irrigation 


56 . 16 
20 .73 


23 . 03 


100 -31 


76 . 89 


Punjab 


Punjab 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. Agro -Aviation 


Agro - Aviation 
Minor Irrigation 
Tractor 


48 . 13 
1850 . 00 
2128 .00 


48 . 13 
1665 .00 
1596 . 00 


4026 . 13 


3309 . 13 


Rajasthan 


Rajasthan .. 


.. 


. . 


.. 


.. 


.. 


. . 


.. Minor Irrigation 


. . Minor Irrigation 


112 . 86 


101 . 57 


Tamil Nadu 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


Minor Irrigation 
Tractor 
Plantation /Horticulture 
Fisheries 
Poultry 
Dairy 
Sheep Breeding 


anaw 


4725 40 
1050 . 00 

9 . 70 
2 .04 
11 .91 
29 .25 
20 . 15 


4252 . 42 
787 . 50 

4 . 85 
1 -02 
9 .89 
21 . 94 
20 . 15 


49 


5848 .45 


5097 .77 


l 


AMMA 


Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu 


.. 


. . 


. . Fisheries 


184 . 10 


135 . 76 


Uttar Pradesh 


. . 


. . 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


. 


Minor Irrigation 


18 


Plantation /Horticulture 


2831 04 

2 . 80 


2547 . 94 

1 . 40 


1 


19 


2833 -84 


2549 . 34 


West Bengal 


. . 


.. 


.. 


.. 


. . 


. . 


2 . 08 


1 .04 


.. Poultry 

Grand Total 


225 


21755 - 59 


18559 -91 


om uw 


wu 


APPENDIX 


SIX 


9 . The Madhya Pradesh State Co -operative Land Develop 

ment Bank Limited 


LIST OF SHARE HOLDERS AS ON 30 JUNE 1970 

CENTRAL LAND DEVELOPMENT BANKS 


1, The Andhra Pradesh Co- operative Central Land Mortgage 

Bank Limited . 
2 . The Assam Co- operative Central Land Mortgage Bank 

Limited 
3. The Bihar State Co -operative Mortgage Bank Limited 
4. The Bombay State Co -operative Land Mortgage Bank 

Limited 
5. The Gujarat State Co -operative Land Development Bank 

Limited 
6 . Haryana State Co- opertative Land Mortgage Bank Limited 


10 . The Mysore State Co-operative Land Development Bank 

Limited 
11 . The Orissa State Co -operative Land Development Bank 

Limited 
12 . The Pondicherry State Co -operative Land Mortgage Bank 

Limited 
13 . The Punjab State Co -operative Land Mortgage Bank 

Limited 
14 . The Rajasthan Central Co-operative Land Mortgage Bank 

Limited 
15 . The Tamil Nadu State Co -operative Land Development 

Bank Limited 
16 . Tripura Co -operative Land Mortgage Bank Limited 
17. Uttar Pradesh State Co -operative Land Development Bank 

Limited 
18. The West Bengal Central Co -operative Land Mortgage 

Bank Limited . 


7 . The Jammu and Kashmir Co- operative 

Development Bank Limited 


Central Land 


8 . Kerala Co -operative Central Land Mortgage Bank Limited 


PART III - - Scc . 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1715 


STATE CO -OPERATIVE BANKS 


. 


19 . The Andhra Pradesh State Co -operative Bank Limited 
20 . The Assam Co -operative Apex Bank Limited 
21 . The Bihar State Co - operative Bank Limited 
22 . The Delhi State Co -operative Bank Limited 
23. The Gujarat State Co -operative Bank Limited 
24 . The Haryana State Co - operative Bank Limited 
25 . The Himachal Pradesh State Co - operative Bank Limited 
26 . The Jammu and Kashmir State Co-operative Bank Limited 
27. The Kerala State Co -operative Bank Limited 
28. The Madhya Pradesh State Co -operative Bank Limited 
29. The Maharashtra State Co -operative Bank Limited 
30 . The Manipur State Co -operative Bank Limited 
31. The Mysore State Co -operative Apex Bank Limited 
32. The Orissa State Co - operative Bank Limited 
33. The Pondicherry State Co -operative Bank Limited 
34 . The Punjab State Co -operative Bank Limited 
35 . The Rajasthan State Co-operative Bank Limited 
36 . The Tamil Nadu State Co -operative Bank Limited 
37 . Tripura State Co -operative Bank Limited 
38 . Uttar Pradesh Co -operative Bank Limited 
39. West Bengal State Co -operative Bank Limited 


52. Dena Bank 
53. The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
54 . Indian Bank 
55 . Indian Overseas Bank 
56 . The Karnataka Bank Limited 
57. The Kumbakonam City Union Bank Limited 
58 . Mercantile Bank Limited 
59. National and Grindlays Bank Limited 
60 . The Nedungadi Bank Limited 
61 . Punjab National Bank 
62 . The Ratnakar Bank Limited 
63. The Sangli Bank Limited 
64 . State Bank of Hyderabad 
65. State Bank of India 
66 . State Bank of Indore 
67 . State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur 
68 . State Bank of Mysore 
69 . State Bank of Patiala 
70 . State Bank of Saurashtra 
71. State Bank of Travancore 
72 . The South Indian Bank Limited 
73 . Syndicate Bank 
74 . Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Limited 
75 . Union Bank of India 
76 . United Bank of India 
77. United Commercial Bank 
78 . The Vijaya Bank Limited 
79. The Vysya Bank Limited 


SCHEDULED BANKS 


OTHER SHAREHOLDERS 


40 . Allahabad Bank 
41. The Andhra Bank Limited 
42. Bank of Baroda 
43. The Bank of Bchar Limited 
44 . Bank of India 
45. Bank of Madura Limited 
46 . Bank of Maharashtra 
47 . The Benares State Bank Limited 
48. Canara Bank 
49. The Canara Banking Corporation Limited 
50 . Central Bank of India 
51 . The Chartered Bank 


80 . Reserve Bank of India 
81. Life Insurance Corporation of India 
82 . The New India Assurance Company Limited 
83. The Saraswati Insurance Company Limited 
84. The Co -operative Fire and General Insurance Society 

Limited 
85. Co -operative General Insurance Society Limited 


APPENDIX SEVEN 
REPORT OF THE AUDITORS 


We have examined the annexed Balance Sheet of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation as at 30 June 1970 , and also the annexed 
Profit and Loss Account of the Corporation for the year ended upon that date , and report that 


1 . We have obtained all the information and explanations which we have required and have found them to be satisfactory. 


2 


In our opinion , and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and as shown by the books 
of the Corporation , the Balance Sheet is a full and fair Balance Sheet containiiig all necessary particulars and properly 
drawn -up in accordance with the Act and the General Regulations of thie Corporation , so as to exhibit a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Corporation . 


K . S . AIYAR & CO . 
Chartered Accountants 


11 August 1970 
49 Apollo Street , Bombay 
299GI/70 _ 4 


1716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


[PART 1 ]I- SIC. " 


APPENDIX 
BALANCE SHEET 


As at 30 -6 - 1969 

Rs P 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


P 


Rs 


P 


1 . CAPITAL 

Authorised 


Rs. 


P 


25 ,000 shares of Rs . 10 ,000 each . . 


... 


... 


25 ,00 ,00 ,000 .00 


25 ,00 ,00 ,000 . 00 


Issued , Subscribed and Paid up 
5 ,000 shares of Rs. 10 ,000 cach paid up 


. . 


5 , 00 ,00 ,000 .00 


5 ,00 ,00 ,000 .00 


2 . RESERVED AND SURPLUS 

Reserve Fund 

Balance as per last Balance Sheet 
Add : Transfer from Profit and Loss Account 


16 ,000 . 00 
8 , 93 ,000 .00 


5 , 000 .00 
11,000 . 00 


9 ,09 ,000 .00 


16 ,000 .00 


Profit and Loss Account 

Profit brought forward . . 
Profit for the year 


228 . 84 
30 , 27 , 297 . 34 


30,27.297934 


21, 38 , 115 - 84 


Less : Preliminary expenses written off 


30 , 27 ,526 18 

9 ,431 71 


21, 38 , 115 .84 

1 ,887 . 00 


Less : Transferred to Reserve Fund 


30 , 18 ,094 47 
8, 93,000 .00 


21 , 36 ,228 . 84 

11,000 . 00 


Transferred to Provision for Dividend 


21, 25 , 094 -47 
21, 25 ,000 .00 


21,25 ,228 . 84 
21 ,25 ,000 .00 


94 .47 


228 . 84 


NEWMA 


9 ,09 ,094 . 47 
5 ,09,09 ,094 :47 


Carried Forward 


5 ,00 , 16 ,228 -84 


Brought Forward 


5 ,09 ,09, 094 .47 

74,00 ,043 · 10 


5 ,00 , 16 ,228 . 84 
61,48 ,843 10 


3 . SPECIAL DEPOSIT 


14 , 13 ,896 -05 


14 , 13, 896 .05 
10 ,93 ,77,000 . 00 


. PAYMENT BY CENTRAL GOVERNMENT IN RESPECT 

OF GUARANTEED DIVIDEND ( Section 6 of the Act ) 
5. BONDS & DEBENTURES (52 % ARC Bonds 1982) .. . 
6 . LOANS FROM THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT . . 

(a ) Under Section 19 of the Act .. . . . . . . 
(b ) Other loans .. . . . . . . . . .. .. 


5 , 00 ,00 ,000 .00 
39, 75 ,00 ,000 .00 


5 , 00 ,00 ,000 .00 
20,75, 00 , 000 .00 
35 ,75 ,00 ,000 .00 


44,75,00, 000 .00 


7 . OTHER BORROWINGS . . . 

( a ) From the Reserve Bank of India 
(b) From Others : 

(i ) In india . . 
( ii ) Outside India . . . . 


. . 


8 . FIXED DEPOSITS 

(a ) From Central or State Government 
(6 ) Others . . . . . . . . . . 


nment 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. . 


21 , 25 ,000 00 


9 . PROVISION FOR DIVIDENDS 

Amount transferred from Profit and Loss Account . . . 
Add : Payment to be made by CentralGovernment in pursuance 

of Section 6 read with Section 28 of the Act ( vide Divi 
dend Deficit Account as per contra ) 


21 ,25,000 .00 


21, 25 ,000 . 00 


21,25 ,000 .00 


Carried Forward 


61,87,25,033 .62 


31,72,03, 967 .99 


NNN 


PART III - SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1717 


M : 


NEL 


. . 


EIGHT 
AS AT 30 JUNE 1970 


W 


As at 30 - 6 - 1969 
Rs. P . 


Rs. 


P . 


Rs. 


P. 


ASSETS 
1 . Cash 

( a ) In hand 
(6 ) With Reserve Bank of India . . 
( c) With Others : 

(i) In India 
( ii ) Outside India 


388 .64 
25 ,796 . 35 


799 .65 
49 , 990 . 58 


9,418 . 15 


6 ,994 · 55 . 


CAMEL 


35 , 603 . 14 


57, 784 . 78 


2 . LOANS 

(a) By way of refinance . . . . . . .. 
(6 ) Others 

Less : Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debisi 


. . 


. . 


4, 29, 26 ,693 .00 


2 , 54 , 94 ,645 .00 


4 , 29 ,26 ,693 .00 


2 ,54 ,94 ,645 .00 


3. DEBENTURES 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. . 


.. 


.. 


. . 


54 ,60 ,37,600 .00 


27, 85 ,53,750 .00 


2 ,49 , 85, 544 -50 


4 . INVESTMENT IN CENTRAL GOVERNMENT SECURITIES 

(At Cost) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
( Face Value Rs. 2 , 46 , 16 ,300 . 00 ) 

(Market Value Rs. 2 ,49 ,85, 544 50 ) 


51,45,041 . 00 


5. INTEREST ACCRUED ON INVESTMENTS .. 


. . 


. . 


6 ,24 ,296 .72 


1, 29, 192 .04 


Carried Forward 


61, 46 ,09,737 . 36 


30, 93,80 ,412 82 


6 . OTHER ASSETS 
(a ) Furniture, Fixture and fittings, office equip 

ments etc . ( Cost upto 30 - 6 - 1969) . 
Add : Additions during the year .. . 


1, 25,596 .89 
52 ,924 . 36 


1 , 38 ,041 19 

18 ,610 -65 


1,78 ,521 .25 

217 . 20 


Less : Items sold /adjusted 


. . 


. . 


.. 


1,56 ,651 -84 

31, 054 .95 


1 , 78 ,304 .05 

48,964 .47 


Less: Depreciation to date 


1 ,25 ,596 .89 
32 , 369 -82 


1 , 29, 339 .58 


93,227 .07 


( 6 ) Deposits with Government Departments and 

other institutions 


36 , 841 66 


28, 379 . 16 


( c ) Sundry Advances 


. 


. . 


. . 


. . 


1 , 31, 080 .41 


46 ,49, 361 .48 


( d ) Interest accrued on debentures 


1, 39,49,388 . 96 


69 ,46, 150 .58 


10 ,43 ,059 .17 


3 ,11,096 .42 


(e) Interest accrued on loans by way of refinance 
(f ) Preliminary expenses . . . . .. . . 

Less: Written off during the year . . 


9,431 71 
9,431 -71 


11, 318 .71 
1,887 .00 


(8 ) Dividend Deficit Account 


Nil 
14 ,13,896 .05 


. . 


. . 


. . 


9,431 . 71 
14, 13, 896 .05 
1, 34 ,51,542 -47 


ON 


1,67,03 ,605 -83 


Carried Forward 


63, 13 , 13 ,343 . 19 


32, 28 , 31, 955 . 29 


1718 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892 ) 


[PART III- Sec . 4 . 


N 


BALANCE SHEE I 


LIABILITIES 


As at 30 -6 - 1969 
Rs. 

P . 
31,72,03, 967 .99 

20,25 ,514 .62 


Rs. 

P. 
61, 87,25,033 .62 

20,82 ,505 .62 


Brought Forward 

. . 


10 . PROVISION FOR TAXATION . . 


. . 


. . 


6, 41, 163 43 


3,67,883 .63 


32 ,34 ,589 .05 


11. OTHER LIABILITIES 

Sundry Creditors . . 
Interest accrued but not duc on : 
(a ) Loans from Central Government . . . . . . . . 
(6 ) 52 % Agricultural Refinance Corporation Bonds 1982 . . 
Contingent Liabilities 
(a ) On account of guarantee given against deferred payments 

in connexion with purchase of capital goods from outside 

India . . . . 
(6 ) Other Items .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 


67,89,931 -52 
30 ,74 , 709 . 00 


Total 


63 ,13,13, 343 - 19 


32,28 ,31,955 . 29 


S . S . BASU 

Chief Accountant 
Bombay 11 August , 1970 


As per our Report of even date attached * 

K . S . AIYAR & CO . 

Chartered Accountants 
* See Appendix Seven 


APPENDIX 
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 

Previous Year 
Rs. P 

Rs. P 
1,70 ,66 , 078 . 19 

44, 18 ,972 .61 
18 , 31 ,959 .14 12, 96 ,026 .81 
2 , 04 ,613 .79 

1 ,37, 358 . 73 
2 ,400 . CO 

1, 900 . 00 


1 . Interest paid . . . . . . . . 
2 . Salaries and Allowances . 
3 . Contribution to Staff Provident, Pension and other Funds . . . 
4 . Directors and Committee Members Fees 
5 . Travelling and other allowances in connexion with Directors and Committee Mem 

bers Meetings 
6 . Rent, Rates, Insurance , Lighting etc . 
7 . Travelling Expenses . . 
8 . Printing and Stationery 
9 . Postage, Telegrams and Telephones 
10 . Repairs to Property . . 
11 . Auditors Fees 
12 . Legal Charges 
13 . Miscellaneous expenses 
14 . Depreciation . . . . 
15 . Provision for Taxation 
16 . Net Profit carried to Balace Sheet . . 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


: 
: 
:: 
: 
: 
:: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


: 
: 
:: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
:: 


:::::::::::: 


15 , 758 . 90 
2 , 05, 474 .62 
1 ,99 , 146 . 87 

79 ,941 . 66 
39 , 508 .93 

723 . 44 
5, 000 .00 

6 ,451 .00 
8 ,76 ,688 . 76 

16 ,716 .09 
37 ,00 , 000 .00 
30 ,27, 297 . 34 


12 ,977 .62 
1,30 ,647 .14 
1, 12 , 773 . 76 

39 , 524 .88 
21 ,635 .43 
1 , 947 . 15 
5 ,000 .00 
16 , 952 .00 
84, 107 . 70 

11,073 01 
26 , 13 , 300 . 00 
21, 38 , 115 . 84 


Total 


2 ,72 , 77, 758 . 73 


1 , 10 ,42 ,314 .68 


S . S . BASU 

Chief Accountant 
Bombay 11 August 1970 


As per our Report of even date attached * 

K . S . AIYAR & CO . 
Chartered Accountants 
* See Appendix Seven 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTİKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1719 


PART III - SEC . 4 ] 
AS AT 30 JUNE 1970 


MLM 


.. 


ter 


ASSETS 


Rs. 

P 
63,13, 13 ,343 . 19 


As at 30 -6 - 1969 

Rs. P . 
32 ,28 ,31,955 . 29 


Brought Forward 


Total 


63,13, 13 ,343 . 19 


32,28 , 31,955 .29 


P . N , DAMRY 

Chairman 
K . MADHAVA DAS Managing Director 
T . P . SINGH 
M . R . PATEL 
N . A . KALYANI F Directors 
C . D . DATEY 


New Delhi 6 August 1970 


NINE 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 1970 


Rs. 


P . 


Rs. 


P . 


Previous year 
Rs. P . 


1 . Interest Received 

( a ) On loans and debentures . . 
(6 ) On Investments ( Tax deducted at source Rs. 13 , 16 ,899 .00 ) 


2 ,40 , 90 , 030 . 51 

30 ,34,715 .16 


1 ,02,02,032 -24 

8 , 38 ,683 .40 
1, 10 ,40,715 .64 


2 , 71, 24 ,745 .67 


2 . Discount Commission etc . 
3 . Other Items . . . . . 

(a ) Share Transfer Fees . 
(6 ) Miscellaneous receipts 
( c ) Commitment charges . . 


. . 
. . 
. . 


4 .00 

29 .60 
1 ,52 ,979 .46 


4 . 00 
1 , 595 . 04 


1, 53, 013 .06 


1 , 599 . 04 


Total 


2,72 ,77,758 -73 


1 ,10 ,42, 314 .68 


P . N . DAMRY Chairman 
K , MADHAVA DAS Managing Director 
T . P . SINGH 
M , R . PATEL 
N . A . KALYANI 
C . D , DATEY 


New Delhi 6 August 1970 


1720 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


(PART III - SEC . 4 


A 


AUDITOR S 
We have audited the attached Balance Sheot of the Unit Trust of India as at 30th June, 1970 and the Revenue Account for 
Subject to and read with the Notes thereon , we report that:-- 
(1 ) the Balance Sheet is a full and fair Balance Sheet containing all the necessary particulars and is properly drawn up in accor 

ledge and according to the information and explanations givcn to us , a true and fair veiw of the state of affairs of the Trust ; 
(2 ) we have received all the information and explanations we have required and found them to be satisfactory . 


Bombay. 141h August, 1970 . 


UNIT TRUST 


(Established under the Unit Trust of India Act , 

BALANCE SHEET AS AT 


- 


MrW 


LIABILITIES 


Amount 


+ + 


PLAN 


As at 30th 
June , 1969 

Rupecs 


Rupees 


Rupees 


Rupecs 


CAPITAL : 


Initial Capital : 


5, 00 , 00 , 000 


1,000 certificates of Rs. 50 ,000 cach . 


5 ,00 ,00 ,000 


Unit Capital : 


56 , 65 , 20 , 800 


7, 74,47,724 units of Rs. 10 !. 


77,44, 77, 240 


61,65, 20 ,800 


82 ,44 , 77 , 240 


RESERVES AND SURPLUS : 


Unit Premium Reserve : 


3 ,06 ,706 


Balance as per last Balance Sheet 


. . 


. 


. . 


. . 


8 ,06 ,444 


Amount allocated out of premium 
recovered on sale as adjusted by 
premium paid on repurchases . . 


4 , 99 ,738 
8 ,06 ,444 


28, 16 ,621 
32 ,23,065 


Other Reserves : 


General Reserve : 


Initial Capital : 
Balance as per last Balance Sheet 


1, 83 ,995 


. . 


.. 


. . 


2,88,573 


1,04 ,578 


Transfer from Initial Capital 
Appropriation Account . . 


54 ,626 


3, 43 , 199 


2 ,88 , 573 

10 , 95 ,017 
61,65 ,20,800 


C / F 


39 ,66 , 264 


Carried forward . . 


82, 44 ,77, 240 


Am 


PART III — Sec . 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1721 


REPORT 
the year ended on that date annexed thereto . 


dance with the Unit Trust of India Act , 1963 and the Regulations framed thereunder so as to exhibit , to the best of our know 


K . S . AIYAR & Co, . 

Chartered Acconutatns 


M . P . CHITALE & Co., 

Chartered Accountants 


OF INDIA 

1963 - Regulation 39A Form 1 Schedule B ) 
30TH JUNE, 1970 


( Figures are shown to the nearest rupee ) 


ASSETS 


Amount 


- 


As at 30th 
Jure, 1969 

Rupees 


Rupees 


Rupees 


Rupees 


INVESTMENTS : ( At cost ) 

(See Notes 1 , 3 , & 4 ) 


Securities of Central and State 

Governments : 
(i) Central Government Treasury 

Bills 


17. 86 , 500 


6, 94, 750 


1 ,31, 96 , 625 


ii ) Other Trustce Securities 


2 , 96, 03 , 475 


1,49 , 83 , 125 


26 .85,38,620 

9. 33 . 55 , 287 
23, 99,56, 500 


Debentures and Bonds 
Preference shares 
Equity shares 
Others . . . . 


3 ,02, 98 ,625 
37, 18 ,47, 454 
11, 91,88, 126 
31, 54 ,72 , 197 


. 


61, 68 ,33, 532 


83,68 . 05. 402 


DEPOSITS : 


. . 


With Scheduled Banks 


3 .06.00,000 

60. 00 , 000 


With Others Institution 


3. 15. 00 ,000 
3. 15. 00, 000 


3 . 66 ,00, 000 


24. 11. 023 
1 ,58 ,570 
9. 35. 727 
96. 88 ,998 


OTHER CURRENT ASSETS : 

Balance with Banks and on hand . . 
Sundry Debtors .. . . . . 
Contract for sale investments . . 
Accrued Incorne . . 
Others (advances and deposits ) . . 


16. 71, 470 
1 , 65, 203 


. 


1 ,24,49, 727 

85, 30 ,498 


60. 03. 926 


1 , 91 , 98.244 


66. 75,31,776 


Carried forward . . 


2 , 28, 16, 898 
89 . 62 23, 300 


. 


. . 


- 


- 


- 


1722 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[Part III- - Sect 4 


UNIT TRUST 
(Established under the Unit Trust of India Act . 

BALANCE SHEET AS AT 


LUN 


14 


- 


LIABILITIES 


Amount 


tem 


As at 30th 
June, 1969 

Rupees 


Rupees 
Rupees 


Rupees 


Rupees 


Rupees 


Broutht forward . . 


82,44 ,77 ,240 


61,65,20 ,800 

10 , 95 ,017 


B / F . 


Unit Capital : 

Balance as per last Balance Sheet 


13, 96 , 953 


. . 


. . 


.. 


25 ,81, 869 


Transfer from Unit Capital Appropri 

ation Account . . . 


11,84 , 916 


8 ,46 , 142 


25,81.869 

7,65, 067 
24 , 17 ,222 


Initial Capital Appropriation Account .. 
- Unit Capital Appropriation Account .. 


.. 
. . 


34 , 28 , 011 
10 ,29,066 
19 , 24 , 174 


68, 59 , 175 


1,03,47,515 


5 


LOANS : 


Trom Reserve Bank of India : 
( i ) Secured against Trustee Securi- 

lies . . . . . . . . 
(ii) Secured against Bonds issued by 

the Trust and guaranteed by the 
Central Government . . 


. . 
. . 


. . 
. . 


. . 
. . 


From Others 


From Others 


. 


.. 


.. 


. 


.. 


.. 


62,33, 79 ,975 


Carried forward . . 


83 , 48 , 24 ,755 


CURRENT LIABILITIES AND 
PROVISIONS : 


3,28 ,611 


. . 


7,37,884 


16 ,03 ,920 
11 , 26 ,649 


Sundry Creditors (See Note 5) . . . . 
Interest on Loans 
Contracts for purchase of investments . . 
Unclaimed Distributed Income . . . . 
IncomeDistribution on Initial Capital . . 
Income Distribution on Unit Capital . . 


23 ,51 ,343 
13 ,41, 078 

20, 00 ,000 
5,57,62,361 


17, 50 , 000 
4 ,02 ,22 ,977 


4, 50 ,32 ,157 


6 , 21,666 


66 ,84,12 ,132 


Total 


89 , 70 , 17 ,421 


VO 


ENTR 


AL 


PART III - Sec . 41 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 ( KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1723 


NEW 


WENN 


uuta 


OF INDIA 


1963 - Regulation 39A Form 1 Schedule B ) 
30TH JUNE, 1970 


( Figures are shown to the nearest rupee ) 


ASSETS 


Amount 


_ 


As at 30th 
June, 1969 

Rupees 


Rupees 


Rupees 


Rupees 


66 ,75, 31,776 


Brought forward 


89,62 ,23, 300 


FIXED ASSETS : 


Land ( At cost) 
Building (At cost ) . . 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. . 


Less : Depreciation to date .. 


.. 


.. 


. . 


.. * 


Furniture and Fixtures : (At cost) 


3 ,45 , 011 

26 , 243 


Balance as per last Balance Sheet 
Additions during the year 


3, 71, 099 
31, 094 


3,71,254 

155 


4 ,02 ,194 


Deductions during the year 


Less : Depreciation to - date 


4 , 02 , 194 
1. 37,680 


3 ,71 , 099 
1,09,138 
2 ,61, 961 


2,64, 514 


10,69,535 


Office Equipment : (At cost) 

Balance as per last Balance Sheet 
Additions during the year 


10, 76 ,634 

5 ,881 
10 ,82,515 


10, 76 , 846 

212 


Deduction during the year 


10 ,82,515 


Less : Depreciation to -date 


. . 


. . 


. . 


571.824 


10 ,76 ,634 
4 ,81,825 
5 ,94 ,749 

8 ,56 ,710 
66 , 75 ,31, 776 


5 ,10,691 


C / F 


7, 75 , 205 


Carried forward . . 


89,62, 23, 300 


Motor Vehicles : (At cost ) 


$ 2, 950 


52,850 


Balance as per last Balance Sheet 
Additions during the year 


LP 


52 ,850 
29,204 


52,850 
33,934 


Less : Depreciation to -date 


23,646 


18 ,916 


Others 


8 , 80 , 356 


7 ,94, 121 


66 ,84 ,12,132 


Total 


89, 70 , 17 , 21 


LU 


See Notes Annexed , 


299G1/705 


1724 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1982) 


[Part III- Sec . 


VERT 

LR 


UNIT TRUST 


(Established under the Unit Trust of India Act , 


BALANCE SHEET AS AT 


LIABILITIES 


Amount 


As at 30th 
June, 1969 


Rupees 


Rupees 


18 ,822 


18, 822 


Contingent Liabilities : 

(i) Claims against the Trust not acknowledged as debts Sales tax claimed on importation 

charges of Tabulating machines under dispute ) 
Uncalled liability in respect of partly paid shares held as investments (includes Rs. 
1, 19 ,80 ,125 in respect of banks nationalised on 19th July , 1969 _ Previous year 

Rs. 1 ,13,43,925 ) .. . . . . .. . . . . . 
Capital Commitment ; 


1, 28 ,58,023 


1 ,37, 47, 790 


Nil 


Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on Capital Account 


Nil 


As per our report attached , 


K . S . AIeYR & Co . 
M .P . CHITALE & Co . 
Chartered Accountants . 


Bombay , 14th August , 1970 . 


UNIT TRUST OF INDIA 


Notes annexed to and forming part of the Balance Sheet as at 30th June, 1970 . 


30th June, 1969 

Rupees 


30th June, 1970 
Rupees 


Notes 


1. 


(a ) Quoted Investments including Treasury Bills 

Cost .. .. .. .. .. . . 
Aggregate market value 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. . 


.. 


61, 29 , 15 ,805 
66 , 78 ,32,439 


.. 


83, 17 ,39, 399 
91, 23, 96,606 


(6 ) Unquoted Investments 


39 ,17,727 


Cost . . . 


50 ,67,003 


After taking the market value of investments , the net value of the assets of the Trust as on 30th 
June, 1970 amounted to Rs. 91, 54 , 81 , 962 ( As on 30th June 1969 Rs. 67,82, 96 ,608 ). 


Investmrents include contracts for purchase of 
Debentures 

.. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . Rs. 4,950 
Preference shares .. . . .. . . . . . . . . .. Rs. 3, 18 ,716 
Equity shares 

. . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. Rs. 20 , 27 ,677 
Investments in ‘reference and equity shares (cost Rs. 14 .70 . 139. 30th June , 1969- - Rs. 5 , 12 ,943) 
could not be verified by the Auditors as the relevant confirmations etc . from the bank were yet 
to be received . 


Sundry Creditors include a sum of Rs. 70 ,254 ( previous year - Rs. 57,320 ) on account of the 
Unit Trust of India Employees Provident Fund , which stands invested 


No provision has been made in the accounts as on the 30th June, 1970 for the future liability of 
the Trust towards Gratuity payable to the Reserve Bank of India in respect of the staff placed on 
duty with the Trust in accordance with the Bank s rules, as the amount involved is not ascertain 
able . 


Part III - SEC. 4 ] 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1725 


VA 


w 


OF INDIA 
1963 - Regulation 39A Form I Schedule B ) 
30TH JUNE , 1970. 


R . S . BHATT 


Chairman 


V . G . PENDHARKAR 
N , M . WAGLE 
H . T . PAREKH 
D . P . GOENKA 
RAMESHWAR THAKUR , 
T . R . VARADACHARY 
SITA RAM MOHINDROO 
V . H . VORA 


Trustees 


C . P . BISWAS 
Chief Accountant 


S . D . DESHMUKH 


Executive Trustees 


UNIT TRUST OF INDIA 


- 


7. 
8 . 


Figures for the previous year have been re-grouped where considered necessary . 
As regards the Trust s publicity , please see paragraph 15 of the Trustees Report. 


Chairman 


R . S . BHATT 
V . G . PENDHARKAR 
N . M . WAGLE 
H . T . PAREKH 
D . P . GOENKA , 
RAMESHWAR THAKUR 
T . R . VARADACHARY 
SITA RAM MOHINDROO 
V . H . VORA 


Trustees 


C . P . BISWAS 
Chief Accountant 


S . D . DESHMUKH 


Executive Trustee 


Bombay, 14th August, 1970 . 


1726 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[PART III — SEC. 4 


LE 


ML 


MA 


ut 


UNIT TRUST 

(Regulation 39A 
REVENUE ACCOUNT FOR THR YEAR 


Expenditure 


Amount 


Rupees 
36 ,62 ,354 


.. 


4 ,950 
21,354 


12 , 28 , 223 


Previous Year 

Rupees 
33 ,99,031 Salaries , Allowance, Contributions to Provident Fund and Gratuity 

4,400 Sitting Fees of Trustees .. . . .. .. .. . . .. .. . . 

22 ,929 Travelling and other allowances of Trustees (for attending Board and Committee Meetings ) 
9 ,81,522 Office Expenses ( Including Publicity Expenses) . . . . 

Interest on Borrowings 
12,35 ,370 Commission , Brokerage and Bank Charges 

20 ,000 Auditors Fees . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . .. . . 
1,39, 243 Depreciation .. . . . . . . .. .. . . . . .. 
58 ,02,495 
21,16 , 665 Less : Management Expenses recovered from sale of units 

36,85,830 Total expenditure .. . . . . .. . . .. .. .. .. 
4 ,45, 74 ,993 Income for the year . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


: 
: 


16 ,71,602 

20 ,000 
1,23,211 


67,31,694 
22, 83,405 


: 


44 , 48 , 289 
5,84, 34 ,080 


.. 


. . 


4 , 82 ,60 ,823 


Total 


.. 


. . 


. 


6,28,82,369 


92,478 Note : Remuneration and allowances of Chairman and Executive Trustee in cluded in the above 

are . r . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rs. 


89 , 999 


M 


ALLOCATION OF INCOME AND EXPENDITURE BETWEEN INITIAL CAPITAL AND 


Previous Year 


M 


ch 


Unit Capital 

Rupees 
4 ,43,46 ,857 


Initial Capital 

Rupees 


Total 
Rupees 
4 ,82,60 ,823 


( 39 , 13, 966 


Income as above 


- - 


Less: 


Interest on 
Borrowings 


4 ,43 ,46,857 

22, 17,343 


39,13, 966 
14 ,68,487 


4, 82 ,60 , 823 

36, 85 ,830 


Less : Total 

penditure 
above 


Ex 
as 


17 


4 ,21,29 ,514 


24 ,45 ,479 


4 ,45 ,74 , 993 


Transferred to 
Unit Capital 
Appropriation 
Account. 


Transferred to 
Initial Capital 
Appropriation 
Account. 


th 


PART III— SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1727 


Ah 


-ALLA 


mm 


- 


OF INDIA 


Form 2 Schedule B ) 
ENDED 30TH JUNE , 1970 


Figures are shown to the nearest rupee) 


Income 


Amount 


Previous Year 

Rupees 
4 ,30,11,740 Dividend and Inerest 


Rupees 


Rupees 


.. 


. . 


. . 


.. 


.. 


. . 


. . 


.. 


5, 70 ,01, 397 


Add : Profit on 

(net) 


sale 


and 


redemption 

.. 


12,89 ,495 
4 ,43,01, 235 


of Investments 
.. .. . . 


. . 


.. 


9, 00 , 768 


5, 79,02, 165 


16, 75, 752 Commission and Brokerage * 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


. . 


.. 


. . 


17,66, 396 


5, 14 ,016 Other Income 


. . 


.. 


. . 


. . 


. . 


.. 


. . 


. . 


. . 


. . 


73,115 


un 


17 ,69 , 820 


Amount recov , 
repurchase of 


31,40 ,693 


4 , 82 ,60 , 823 


TOTAL 


. . 


. . 


. . 


6 ,28 , 82 , 369 


* Represents underwriting commission and brokerage in respect of shares and debentures subscribed for by the Trust . 


UNIT CAPITAL UNDER SECTIONS 24 AND 25 OF THE UNIT TRUST OF INDIA ACT, 1963 


Total 
Rupees 


Initial Capital 

Rupees 


Unit Capital 
Rupees 


6, 28 ,82, 369 


38 ,13 ,469 


5,90 ,68 ,900 


6 , 28 ,82, 369 
44 ,48 ,289 


38 , 13 ,469 

14 , 94 ,844 


5 ,90 ,68 ,900 

29 ,53,445 


5,84,34 ,080 


23, 18,625 


5,61,15 ,455 


Transferred to 
Initial Capital 
Appropriation 
Account. 


Transferred to 
Unit Capital 
Appropriation 
Account. 


RU 


1728 


THE GAZETTE OF ÍNDIA , OČTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


[PART III — Sec . 4 


w 


MUL 
New 


RM 


UNIT TRUST 

(Regulation 39 A 
REVENUE ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR 


Previous Year 


Expenditure 


Amount 


INITIAL CAPITAL 


Rupees 

20 ,00, 000 


.. 


. . 


.. 


.. 


Rupees 
17 ,50 , 000 Income Distribution @ 4 % ( 1968-69 - 34 % ) .. .. .. .. 

Transfer to General Reserve being proportionate profit on sale and 
1 ,04 ,578 redemption of securities . . 
7 .65 . 067 Balance carried to Balance Sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . 


54 ,626 
10 , 29 ,066 


26,19, 645 


Total 


.. 


. 


30,83,692 


UNIT CAPITAL 


Rupees 
5 ,57,62, 361 


. . 


.. 


Rupees 
7,02 ,22,977 Income Distribution @ 7 .2 % (1968-69 — 7 . 1 % ) . . .. . . . . . . 

Transfer to General Reserve being proportionate profit on sale 
11, 94 ,916 redemption of securities are .. 

. . . . . . . . 
24 , 17 ,222 Balance carried to Balance Sheet . . . . .. . . . . .. .. 


. . 
and 

. . 
. . 


. . 
. . 


. . . 
.. 


8 ,46 , 142 
19 ,24 , 174 


4 ,38 , 25, 115 


Total 


5,85 ,32 ,677 


As per 


report attached 


to the Balance Sheet . 

K . S . AIYAR & Co . 
M . P . CHITALE & Co . 

Chartered Accountants 


Bombay , 14th August , 1970 


PART III — SEC. 4 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1729 


OF INDIA 


Form 2 Schedule B ). 
ENDED 30TH JUNE , 1970 


( Figures are shown to the nearest rupee ) 


Previous Year 


Income 


Amount 


APPROPRIATION ACCOUNT 


Rupees 


Rupees 

1, 74 ,166 Balance brought forward from previous year 
24,45,479 Net Income allocated tas above . . .. 


. 
.. 


.. 
.. 


. . 
.. 


.. 
.. 


. . 
.. 


.. 
.. 


. . 
.. 


.. 
.. 


7,65 , 067 
23, 18,625 


26, 19,645 


Total 


. . 


.. 


. . 


.. 


30 ,83,692 


APPROPRIATION ACCOUNT 


Rupees 

16 ,95,601 Balance brought forward from previous year 
4, 21,29, 514 Net Income allocated as above .. .. 


.. 
.. 


. . 
.. 


.. 
.. 


. . 
.. 


.. 
.. 


.. 
.. 


.. 
. 


. . 
. 


Rupees 
24 ,17, 222 
5,61, 15,455 


4 ,38 ,25, 115 


Total . . 


. . 


. . 


.. 


5 ,85 , 32 ,677 


- 


WW 


R . S . BHATT 


Chairman 


V , G . PENDHARKAR 
N . M . WAGLE 
H . T . PAREKH 
D . P . GOENKA 
RAMESHWAR THAKUR 
T . R . VARADACHARY 
SITA RAM MOHINDROO 
V . H . VORA 


Trustees 


C . P . BISWAS 
Chief Accountant 


S . D . DESHMUKH 


Executive Trustee 


1730 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[PART III - SEC . 4 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

Central Board of Film Censors 


PART I 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the Week ending 27th September 1969 

Instructions : B -- -Bombay ; C -- Calcutta ; M - Madras, U - Certified for unrestricted public exhibition . 


A - Certified for public exhibition restricted to adults . 

i .e . persons who have completed their 18th year. 


- 


- 


Remarks 


Application Name of the film with Length of the Name of the person Name of the person Nature of 
No , language and country film in metres or Co . who has appli. or Co . who has pro certificate 
of origin . & No. of Reels ed for certification with duced the film with 
address , 

address . No, & 

Date of 
issue/and 
or refused . 


I 


? 


2 


7 


BOMBAY 


U 


B / 57770 


58362 


" Improving Perfor 
mance Through 
Individual Manager 
Development" (Eng 
fish ) ( 16 mm ) (New 
York ) 


320 . 04 ( 1 ) Ama Educational Pvt. American Manage - 

Ltd . , Canada Bldg ., ment Association , 
Hornby Road , Dr. (New York ) 
D . N . Rd., Bombay-4 . 


22 -9 -69 


B /57771 


340 · 16 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


58363 


“ Standards of Perfor 
mance " (English ) 
( 16 mm ) (New York ) 


22 - 9 -69 


U 


B /57772 


320 .04 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


58364 


“ Evaluation for Deve 
lopment" (English ) 
(16 mm ) (New York ) 


22 -9 -69 


U 


B /57365 


58365 


“ Naya Raj Roop " 

(Col. ) (Hindi) (35 
mm ) ( India ) 


24 : 38 ( 1) Chopra Films, Anand Chopra Films, Bom 

villa , 15th Road , bay -54 . 
Bombay- 54 


22 - 9 -69 


B /57364 


24 .38 (1 ) 


Do. 


58366 


“ Naya Roop Shrin 
gar ( Col.) (Hindi) 
( 35 mm ) (India ). 


22 - 9 -69 


U 


B /57363 


24 . 38 (1) 


Do . 


“ Naya Lux ” (Col.) 
(Hindi) ( 35 mm ) (In 
dia ) 


58367 
22 -9- 69 


U 


B / 57521 


24-38(1) 


24 . 38 (1 ) 


Do . 


" Antar Rashtriya 
Shaan " (Col.) (Hin 
di) (35 mm ) ( India ) 


Do. 


58368 


22 - 9 -69 


B /57784 - 90 


" Men of Action " 
( Col. ) (35 mm ) ( In 
dia ) . 


29 . 87 (1 ) Trio Films, Jyoti Stu - Trio Films, Bombay - 

dios , Kennedy Bridge , 7. 
Bombay- 7 . 


58369 Valid for Eng . Hin 

di, Bengali, Mar 
athi, Tamil, Guja 
rathi, Telugu ver 
sions . 


U 


Do , 


B / 57699 


29 .87 (1) 


Do . 


" Eppodum Tripthi" 
( Col.) ( 35 mm ) ( India ) 


58370 Valid for Tamil , 

- Telugu , Kannada & 
22 -9 -69 Malayalam ver 

sions, 


B /57703 


313 - 33 (1 ) 


58371 . 


" Hong Kong Hori 
zons" (Col.) (Eng. 
lish ) (16 mm ) (Hong 
Kong ) 


E . E . James, for Caltax John Durst , (Hong 
( I) Ltd ., Pushpa Vihar Kong ) 
- 2 , Flat 18 , 4th Floor , 
Colaba , Bombay - 5 . 


22 - 9 -69 


U 
58372 


B / 56913 


“ Weed - End Fishing " 

( Col.) ( English ) ( 16 
mm ) (Australia ) . 


102 (1 ) Australian High Com - The Australian Com 
mission , New Delhi. monwealth Film 

Unit , (Australia ). 


- 


22 -9 -69 

U 
58373 


B /57381 


Studios , (U . 


Trailer of " The Swan 
Lake " (Col.) (Eng 
lish ) (70 mm ) ( U .S . 
S . R .) 


120 (1) Sovexportfilm , 163, Lenfilm 

Lower Colaba Rd., S . S . R .) 
Bombay - 5 . 


22-9 -69 


Part III - Sec . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1731 


- 


wEAM 
Kwa 


1 


2 


3 - 


- 


5 


B /57380 


" Old Sayings " (An 
Old Saying) ( Cart 
oon ) (Col.) (35 mm ) 
(U . S . S. R .). 


199 ( 1 ) Sovexportfilm 163 

Lower Colaba Rd 
Bombay - 5 


Sayuzmultfilm Studios , 

(U . S . S . R .) 


U 
58374 English , with Rus 

- sian titles . 
22 - 9 -69 


U 


B /57448 


58375 


With triangle mark . 


22 - 9 -69 


Trailer of " The Great 85 .63 ( 1 ) Warner Bros . Seven Malcoim Stuart, (U . 
Bank Robbery " ( Pan 

Arts ( F . E . ) Inc ., Eros S . A .) 
avision ) (Col.) (Eng 

Bldg., Churchgate , 
lish ) ( 35 mm ) ( U . S . A . ) 

Bomboy . 
Endorsement 

Original length : 92 .66 m . 
Delete the shots of nude woman on the horse . — 7 .03 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be :- 85 .63 m . 


B / 57760 


“ Dance of Love " ( 16 
mm ) ( U . S . A .). 


111 .55 ( 1) United State Informat. Peter Weinei , 1965 (U . 

ion Servica. . Fazal S . A . ) 
House , Marine Lin 
es , Brmbay . 


U 
58376 

- 
22 -9 -69 


No dialogue or com 
mentary . 


U 


B /57758 


71 .63 ( 1) 


Do. 


“ Now that The Buf 
falo s Gone" (Col.) 
( 16 mm ) ( U . S . A .) . 


Burton C . Gershfield , 
(U . S .A .) . 


58377 No dialogue or com 

mentary . 
22 -9 -69 


U 


B /57757 


“ Texture of Decayºs 
( 16 mm ) ( U .S . A .). 


125 •88( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


Robert Vickrey 1957 , 

( U . S . A .). 


or 


58378 No dialogue 

com commentary . 
22 - 9 -69 

U 
58379 No dialogue 

- commentary . 
22 - 9 -69 


B /57762 


“ Pianissimo " ( Col. ) 
( 16 mm ) (U .S . A .) . 


65 .23 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


Carmen D avino , 1964 
(U . S . A .) . 


or 


B /57807 - 9 


“ Fashioned In Fine 

Leathers" (Col.) ( 35 
mm ) ( India ). 


60 .96 (1 ) Candida Films, 68 , Candida Films, Bom 

Tardeo , Bombay- 34. bay -34 . 


58380 


Valid for Bengali , 
Assamese & Oriya 
versions. 


23 - 9 -69 


B / 57810 - 11 


60 . 96 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do. 


Do, 


“ Styles & Trends For 
Men " (Col.) ( 35 
mm ) (India ). 


58381 Valid for English , 

& Hindi versions . 
23 - 9 - 69 


B /57509 


Bombay . 


" Once Upon A Time 3670 .00 ( 16 ) Paramount Films of Fulvio Marsella , (U . 58382 With triangle mark . 
In The West ” ( Tech 

India Ltd ., Hague S .A .). 
niscope) (Col.) ( Eng Bldg ., Sprott Rd. 

24 - 9 - 69 
lish ) (35 mm ) (U . S . A .) 
Endorsement 

Original length : 3712 . 80 m . 
Reel III : Reduce the scene of torture of a man when his scarf is dragged between the wheels . -- 11 .00 m . 

(Length retained : 10 .00 m . ) 
Reel IV : Reduce drastically the scene of love -making between Frank and Jill, deleting shots of his moving hand on 

her bare stomach , back and kissing on the bosom and when they are lying down at the end . - 31 . 80 m . 
(Length retained : 25 m .) 
Length of deletions : 42 . 80 m . 

Actuallength of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3670 . 00 m . 
Trailer of " Goodbye 80 .60(1) Paramount Films of Stanley R . Jaffe , (U . 58383 With triangle mark. 
Columbus " 

India Ltd ., Haguz S . A .). 
( English ) (35 mm ) Bldg., Sprott Rd., 

24 - 9 -69 
U . S . A .). 

Bombay. 
Endorsement 

Original length : 89 . 00 m . 
1. Delete the shot of a girl swimming in which her bare bosoms are visible .-- 0 -40 m . 
2 . Reduce the shot of a boy and a girl taking bath in close physical proximity and delete their subsequent dialogue 

regarding pregnancy . -- 8 .00 m . (Length retained : 2 .00 m .) . 
Length of deletions : -- 8 .40 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 80 .69 m . 


B /57601 


B /57596 


58384 


“ The Silent Witness " 

(Col.) ( English )7 ( 16 
mm ) ( U . S . A .). 


320 .04 ( 1 ) T . J . Gajjar, Examiner Eastman Kodak Com 

Press Building , 3rd pany, (U .S . A .). 
floor, 35 , Dadal Str 
eet, Fort , Bombay- i. 


24 - 9 -69 


299GI; 70 _ 6 


1732 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892 ) 


[PART III — SEC . 4 


I 


26 


5 


6 


B /57812 


Indian News Review 
No . 1094 (35 mm ) 
( India ). 


178 .00 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , Bombay . of India , Bombay . - 


58385 


Valid for 14 ver 
sions. 


24 - 9 - 69 


58386 


B /57664 -69 “ The Incremin Years " 

(Col.) ( 35 mm ) (India ). 


22 .86 ( 1 ) S . Sukhdev , United 

Film Arts, 14 , Rock 
House , Worli , Bom - 
bay - 18 . 


S . Sukhdev , United 
Film Arts , Bombay- 
18 . 


24 - 9 -69 


Valid for English , 
Bengali, Tamil , Te 
lugu Kannada & 
Malayalam ver 
sions. 


U 
58387 


B / 57824 


Trailer of " Aradhana " 
(Col.) (Hindi) (35 
mm ) (India ). 


86 -86 ( 1 ) Shakti Films, 204 , Fa - Shakti Films, Bombay - 

mous Cine Bldg ., Bom - - 11 . 
bay - 11 . 


24 - 9 - 69 

U 
58388 


B /57715 


“ Soniyacha Dayas" 
(Marathi) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ) . 


581 ·25(2 ) Raja T . Date , Nav Do. Raja T . Date , Dist . 

mbivli Society , Block Thana . 
No. 27 , Dombivli , 
Dist , Thana , 


24 - 9 - 69 


B /57767 


“ Manitesto ” (Col.) 
(16 mm ) ( U . S . A .). 


or 


40 - 53 ( 1) U . S . Information Ser - Richard Preston 1963, 

vice , Fazal Bhoy ( U . S . A .) . 
House , Marine Lin 
es , Bombay . 


U 
58389 No dialogue 

- commentary . 
24 - 9 -69 


B / 57768 


U 
58390 


“ Thanatopsis " (16 mm ) 
( U . S . A .) . 


57 . 91 ( 1) 


Do. 


Ed Emshwiller , 1962 
( U .S . A .) . 


24 -9 -69 

U 
58391 


B /57763 


28 - 35 (1) 


Do . 


" Vivian " ( 16 

S . A .) . 


1965 


Bruce Corner, 

(U . S . A .). 


24 - 9 . 69 


U 


B /57741 


91 44 ( 1) 


Do . 


“ Castro St." (Col.) 
( 16 mm ) ( U . S . A .) . 


Bruce Ballie , (U . S. A .). 


58392 


24 -9 -69 

U 
58393 


B / 57361 


“ To See A Film " (Col.) 
(Hindi) (35 mm ) (In 
dia ). 


30 .48 ( 1 ) S . H . Benson (I) Pvt. Jyoti G . Thakur. 47 , 

Ltd ., Steelcreate Ho - Laxmi Assurance ----- 
use , Bombay - 1 . Bldg. Sir P . M . Rd ., 

Bombay - 1 


24 - 9 -69 


B /57362 


30 -48(1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


58394 


“ Vicks In The Air " 

( Col.) (English ) (35 
mm ) (India ). 


24 - 9 -69 


B / 37610 


Do . 


58395 


“ New Improved For 
mula 44 " (Hindi) ( 35 
mm ) (India ) 


30 . 48 ( 1) National Advertising 

Service P . Ltd , Khor 
shed Bldg ., Sir P . M . 
Rd. , Bombay . 


24 - 9 - 69 


U 
58396 


B /57791 


“ Your Property ” (Eng 
lish ) (35 mm ) ( India ) . 


259 . 08 ( 1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , Bombay . of India , Bombay . 


24 - 9 -69 


B /57814 


558 (2 ) 


“ The Indian Woman ” 
( 33 mm ) ( India ) . 


Do . 


Do . 


or 


58397 No dialogue 

- commentary . 
24 - 9 - 69 


B /57737 


" It s Fun To Be Thirs 
ty ” (Col.) (English ) 
( 35 mm ) (India ). 


29 .87 ( 1 ) Durga Khote Produc - Durga Khote Produc - 

tions, India House , tions, Bombay - 1 , 
1st floor, Fort Street, 
Room No . 3 , Oppo 
sit G . P . O ., Bombay -1 . 


58398 
24 -9- 69 


U 
58399 


B /57736 


30 .48 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


“ Built To Take Pun 
ishment” (English ) 
( 35 mm ) (India ) . 


24 - 9 -69 


B /57718 


30 - 48 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


58400 


“ Are Pimples 
Problem ? " 
(English ) ( 35 
(India ) . 


Your 
(Col. ) 
mm ) 


24 - 9 - 69 


U 
59201 


B /57663 


Anthony Nelson Keys , 
( U . S . A .). 


Trailer of “ Franken 74 . 06 (1 ) Warner Bros. Seven 
stein Must Be Des. 

Arts ( F . E . ) Inc. , Eros, 
troyed " (Col.) ( English ) 

Bldg., Churchgate , 
( 35 mm ) ( U .S . A .) . 

Bombay . 
navrato 


24 - 9 - 69 


BART İİİ - Sec . 41 


THE ĠAŽETTE ÓF ÍNDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTÍKA 2, 1892 ) 


1733 


2 


U 


B /57712 


59202 


Trailer of “ Winning " 
(Col.) (English ) ( 35 
mm ) (U .S .A .). 


69 . 191) Universal Pictures Universal Pictures 

India P . Ltd ., Metro Company Inc. , (U . 
House , M , G , Road , S . A .). 
Bombay . 


24 . 9 -69 


U 
59203 


B / 57713 


203 


39 .02( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


Teaser Trailer of 
“ Winning " (Col.) 
(English ) (35 mm ) 
(U . S . A .) . 


24 - 9 -69 


B /57693 


59204 


“ Glimpses of Enchant 
ing Japan " (Col.) 
(English ) ( 16 mm ) 
( India ). 


360 Japan Air Lines Co . Japan National 

Ltd ., 86 , Nariman Tourist Organisation , 
Road , Bombay - 1 , Bombay - 1 . 


24-9 -69 


B /57717 


59205 


“ Fun Minus Pimples " 

(Col. ) (English ) (35 
mm ) ( India ) 


30 .48 ( 1) Durga Khote Produc - Durga Khote Produc 

tions, India House , tions, Bombay- 1 . 
1st floor, Fort Street, 
Room No. 3 , Opposite 
G . P . O ., Bombay - 1. 


24 - 9-69 


B / 57756 


1966, 


or 


“ 9 Variations On A 
Dance Theme" (16 
mm ) ( U . S . A .). 


143 · 26 (1 ) U .S . Information Ser - Hilary Harris 

vice , Fazal Bhoy (U . S . A .) 
House , Marine Lines, 
Bombay . 


59206 No dialogue 

- commentary . 
24 - 9 -69 


B /57765 


83 •82(1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


“ Per -Mu- Tations " 
(Col.) ( 16mm ) 
(U . S . A . ) 


B / 57764 


“ The Pop Show ” ( Col.) 

16 mm ) ( U . S . A .) . 


81 38 ( 1) 


Do . 


John Whitney 1960 s, 59207 Do. 
( U . S .A .). 

24- 9 -69 

U 
Fred Mogubgub , 1965 , 59208 

Do . 
( U . S . A .) . 

24 - 9 -69 

U 
lan Hugo , assisted by 59209 
Len Lye 1953 , (U . S. A . ) ---- 

24 - 9 -69 

U 
Thomas Baum And 59210 No dialogue 
Dennis Lo 1966 , 

commentary . 
( U . S . A .) . 

24 - 9-69 


B / 57761 


104 -85(1) 


104 .85 ( 1 ) 


“ Bells Of Atlantis " 

(Col.) (English ) (16 
mm ) ( U . S . A .). 


Do . 


Do . 


B /57755 


65 .53(1) 


Do . 


Or 


" Come Dance With 
Me" ( Col.) ( 16 mm ) 
( U .S . A .). 


B /57766 


“ On The Edge ” ( 16 
mm ) ( U . S . A .). 


81 .69(1) 


Do . 


Curtiss Harington 1949, 
(U . S . A .). 


59211 


Do. 


24 - 9 -69 


U 


B /57822 


Titles in Marathi. 


“ Maharashtra Rajya 
Kustigir Parishad 
Amravati " (Silent ) 
(16 mm ) (India ). 


153 .09 ( 1 ) Sharat Chandra Sinha , Purna Documentaries 59212 

Maltekdi Rd ., & Sharat Chandra - 
Amravati, Sinha , Amravati, 

25 - 9 -69 


B /57823 


U 
59213 


“ Rashtrasant Shri Tuhdoji 
Maharaja s Antim 
Jatra " ( nilest) 
( 16mm ) (India ). 


114 . 86 ( 1) Sharat Chandra Sinha , Purna Documentaries 
Maltekdi 

Rd. and sharat Sinha , 
Amravati 

Amravati. 


25 -9 -69 


B /57600 


“ The Giver And The 
Taker " (English ) 
(35mm ), ( India ) 


609 .60 (2 ) Prakash Arora . Arora Director of Informa 59214 

Films, Arora Hos - tion , Govt . ofGujarat – 
pital Khar, Bombay - Sachivalaya , Ahema- 25- 9 -69 
52 . bad - 15 

U 
30 . 48 (1) Filmlets ( P ) Ltd . North G . S. Chawla , 3/17 59215 

Bombay Society , AS AF AU Road , - - 
E - 75 , Church Rd ., New Delhi- I. 25 - 9 -69 
Juhu , Bombay - 54 . 


B /57806 


“ Mehrasons" 
(Hindi) 
( India ) 


(Col.) 
(35mm ) 


U 


B /57733 


94 .49 ( 1) 


59216 


Trailer of “ Jeene Ki 
Raah " (Col.) (Hindi) 
( 35mm )(India ) 


Prasad Productions L . V . Prasad , Prasad 

Pvt. Ltd . 68, Tardeo Productions, Pvt. 
Road , Bombay - 34 . Ltd ., Bombay - 34. 


25 -9-69 


U 


B / 57805 


59217 


“ Neev Ke Patthar" 
(Hindi) ( 35mm ) 
(India ). 


454 .00 ( 2 ) Director of Informa- Mahesh Prasad , Direc 

tion , Govt. of U . P . , tor of Information , - 
Lucknow . 

Govt. of U . P ., 
Lucknow . 


25 - 9 -69 


1734 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892 ) 


[Part III — SEC.- 4 


NU 


WM 


o 


1 


2 


4 


U 


B / 57804 


59218 


“ Match To Remem 
ber" ( Col.) ( English ) 
(35mm ) ( India ) 


30 . 48 ( 1) S . H . Benson (1) Pvt. Jyoti G . Thakur , Films 

Itd , Steel Creet House , Media , 47 , Laxmi - 
Bombay - 1 . 

Insurance Bldg . Sir 
P . M . Rd. Bombay- 1 . 


25 . 9 - 69 


B / 57730 


Do 


U 
59219 


" A Magic Promise " 
(Col.) (English ) 
(35mm ) (India ) 


30 - 48 ( 1 ) Inter Publicity Pvt. 

Ltd , Mangalor Street, 
Ballard Estate, Bom 
bay- 1 . 


25 - 9 -69 


U 


B /57776 


Ltd . 


59220 


" Look Young " 
(Col.) ( English ) 
(35mm ) ( India ) 


30 .48 (1) Ama Private Ltd . Ama Private 

Canada Bldg. Dr. Bombay - 1. 
D . N . Rd., Bombay -1 . 


25 . 9 -69 


B / 57793 

- 800 


“ Health For One and 
All" ( 35mm ) ( India ) 


30 .48 (1) Kanti al Rathod, Akar Kantilal Rathod, 

Films, Bhulabbai Bombay - 26 . 
Institute , 89 , B . D . Rd ., 
Bombay - 26 . 


59221 

- 
25 - 9 -69 


Valid for English , 
Hindi, Gujarati, 
Bengali, Maiathi . 
Telugu , Kannada & 
Malayalam version . 


U 
59222 


B /57732 


“ Economics of Oil ” 
(Col.) ( English ) 
( 16mm ) ( U .K .) 


A World Wide Pic 
tures , ( U . K .) 


109 . 12 (1 ) Image India Films Pvt. 

Ltd . ,Nanabhay Men - 
sion , Sir P . M . Rd ., 
Bombay -1 . 


25 - 9 -69 


U 


B /57731 


266 . 70 ( 3 ) 


Do 


Gordon , 


59223 


“ The Land Must 
Provide" (Col. ) (Eng 
lish ) ( 16mm ) (U .K .) 


Douglas 
(U . K .) 


B /57578 


" Reunion In Switzer 
land " (Col.) (English ) 
( 16 mm ) ( Switzerland ) 


243 (1) Consulate General of Burlet Film Zurich , 

Switzerland, Manek (Switzerland ) 
Mkt., Nariman Rd ., 
Bombay - 20 . 


25 - 9 -69 
U 

59224 
25 -9-69 


B / 57579 


“ Switzerland” (Col.) 
(16mm ) (Switzerland ) 


210 . 00 (1) 


Do 


OI 


O . S . E . C ., Lausanne, 59225 No dialogue 
Switzerland , (Switzer - en - commentary . 
land ). 

25 - 9 -69 

U 
Schmid 

Films 59226 
(Switzerland ). 

25-9-69 


B /57580 


70 (1) 


Do 


“ C . E . H .” 
(English ) 
(Switzerland ) 


(Col.) 
(16mm ) 


U 


B /57577 


166 .00 (1) 


Do 


59227 


" The Four Seasons " 
(Col.) (English ) 
( 16mm ) (Switzerland ) 


Condor- Film A 
Zurich , (Switzerland ) - 


25 - 9 -69 


U 
59228 


B /57200 


213 . 36 ( 1) 


Dave B . J . 


The Supenior Electric 
Company ( U .S . A .) - 


" Numerical Control 
With The Low Price 
Tag " (Col.) (English ) 
(16mm ) (U .S . A .) 


25 - 9 -69 


U 
59229 


B /57611 


" New 44 " (Hindi) 
( 35mm ) ( India ) 


30 . 48 ( 1 ) National Advertising Jyoti G . Thakur, Film 

Service P . Ltd ., Khor - Media , 47 Laxmi In - — 
shed Building , Sir surance Bldg. , Sir 
P . M . Rd. , Bombay . P . M . Rd., Bombay . 


25 - 9 -69 


U 
59230 


B / 57532 


879 .65 ( 2 ) 


“ Don Bosco " ( Eng- 
lish ) (16mm ) ( Italy ) 


F . D Souza , C /o Odha- Concord Productions, 
ram Bulchand & Co ., Ltd . ( Italy) 
19 , Bank Street, Fort , 
Post Box 451, Bom 
bay - 1 . 


25 - 9 .69 


U 


B/56652 


59231 


“ Fever Heat" (Col.) 
(Techniscope) ( Eng 
lish ) ( 35mm ) ( U . S . A .) 


2884 . 93 ( 10 ) Paramount Films of Russell S . Doughten , 

India Ltd . . Hague Jr . ( U . S . A .) 
Bldg ., Sprott Rd. , 
Bombay . 


26 - 9 -69 


B /57573 


“ Journey To The Far 
Side Of The Sun " 
(Col.) (English ) 
( 35mm ) (U .S .A .) 


271577 (11 ) Universal Pictures India Universal Pictures 

P . Ltd . Metro House Company Inc . New 
M . G . Rd. Bombay . York , ( U . S . A .) 


U 

59222 
- -- 
27- 9 -69 


MA 


PART III — Sec . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892 ) 


1733 


A 


NN - m 


INN 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


6 


7 


B /57597 


Trailer of " Journey To 
The Far Side Of The 
Sun " (Col.) (English ) 
(35mm ) (U .S .A .) 


86 . 56 ( 1) Universal Pictures India 

P . Ltd - Metro House 
M - G - Rd - Bombay - 


Universal Pictures 59233 
Company Inc . New - 
York , (U - S - A -) 27 - 9 -69 


U 
59234 


B /57219 


" Aradhana " (Col.) 
( Hindi)(35mm )(India ) 


4663 .44 ( 18 ) Shakti Films, 

Famous Cine 
Bombay - 11 . 


204 , Shakti Samanta , 
Bldg . Bombay -11 . 


27- 9 -69 


B / 57394 


R . 


Jaffe , 


A 
2620 


With triangle mark . 


" Goodbye Columbus" 
(Col.) . (English ) 
(35mm )(U .S . A .) 


2690 -30 ( 12 ) Paramount Films of Stanley 

India Ltd ., Hague Bldg., (U . S .A .) 
Sprott Rd. , Bombay . 


24 -9 -69 


Endorsement 
Original length — 2705 - 35m . 

Reel III . - Reduce prolonged kissing between Neil and Brenda. - 1 . 92m . (Length retained - 2 . 00m .) 
Reel ( 11 - - Delete shots of Brenda undressing , running towards the swimming pool in the nude , of her bare bosoms and 

emerging out of water. Also reduce the prolonged kiss between Brenda and Neil. – 3 .01m . ( Length retained 


3 .00m .) 


Reel IV - Reduce prolonged kissing between Neil and Brenda — 6 .72m . (Length retainedm 6 00m .) 
Reel IV - Reduce considera y the nude bath of Neil and Brenda , deleting shots of nudity and also closedness of 

physical contact whilst rubbing Neil off with a towel. - - 3 . 40m . (5 . 00m . is retained .) 
Length of deletions- 15 .05m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will bem - 2690 -30 m . 

ENDORSEMENTS 

ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 
B /52575 

Film — “ Maadi Mane Kahva De” (Gujarati ) 
U - 53177 , dt. 30 - 3 -68 . 

Reel - Deleted various shots... . 42 . 77m . 
Reel - Added various shots . - 106 .68m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will bew -4034 •69m . 

The certificate was endorsed on 22nd September 1969 . 
B /56474 

Film -—- " Prince" (Col.) (Hindi) 
U -57596 , dt. 6 -6 -69 

Reels 15 , 16 , 17 , & 18 - Deleted various shots & dialogues-_ - 99 . 36m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be - 4523 . 85 m . 
The certificate was endorsed on 22nd September 1969. 

VERSIONS 
B /55579 

Film — “ One Man : Jose Gonsalves " (Eng.) 
U -56350 , dt. 13- 2 -69 . 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour . The length of the film remains 

unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 22nd September 1969. 
B /55582 

Film " One Man - Dr. Debakey" (Col.) (Eng.) 
U -56372 , dt. 13 -2 -69 . 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 

unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 22nd September 1969. 
B / 55580 

Film -_- " One Man : Walter Spiel" (Col.) 
U - 56351 , dt. 13 -2 -69 . 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 

unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 22nd September 1969 . 
B /54212 

Film — “ The Best Advt. for Number Ten " (Eng .) 
U - 54944 , dt. 6 - 9 -68 , 

The certificate is also valid for the Assamese version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 25th September 1969 . 


1736 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892 ) 


[PART III — Sec . 


-- 


NE 


M 


2 


3 


4 


5 


- 


CORRECTION 
B /57497 

Film - “ Rajasaab ” (Col.) (Hindi ) 
U -58324 dt. 17- 9 -69 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 4344 - 02m . instead of 4672 -63m . 
The number of reels remains unaffected to 17 . 

The certificate was endorsed on 22nd September 1969 . 
B / 56771 

Film - " Izzat” (Col.) (Hindi) 
U - 55757 dt. 3- 12 -68 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 3962 -38 metros instead of 3726 .59 motros . The 

number of reels remain unaffected at 14 . 

The certificate was endorsed on 22nd September 1969 . 
B /55623 

Film — " Better A Widow " (English ) 
U -57587, dt. 6 -6 -69 . 
The number of the reels on the face of the certificate may be read as Eleven instead of Ten . The length of the film 

remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 25th September 1969 . 
B /57471 

Film - " The Madwoman of Chaillot” (Eng.) 
U -58316 dt. 16 - 9 -69 . 
The title of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as " The Madwoman of the Chaillot" (Col. ) (English ), 

as the film is in Standard Size and not in Panavison . 
The certificate was endorsed on 25th September 1969 . 
CALCUTTA 

U 
The Oraons of Sun 175 ) Aurora Film Corpn . Cultural Research ins 58422 
derban (Beng .) ( 16mm ) 

(P ) Ltd ., 125 , Dharam - titute , Govt. of West 
( India ). tala Street, Calcutta - Bengal. 

23 - 9 -69 


C /6395 


13 . 


C /6403 


58423 


Paschim Banga Sar 
karer Sambad Chitra - 1 
(Beng . ) (35mm ) (India ) 


304 .80 ( 1) Little Cinema (Calcutta ) Little Cinema (Calcutta ) 

Private Ltd . , 9 / 1 , P . Ltd ., 9 / 1, Lovelock 
Lovelock Place , Cal- Place , Cal. - 19 . 
cutta - 19 . 


- 


24 - 9 - 69 


U 


C /6402 


C /6401 


Trailer of Mon -Niye 106 .68 (1) S . M . Films, 22 , Radha Girindra Sinha, Clo 58424 
(Beng.)(35mm ) ( India ) 

Kanto Jew Street , S. M . Films, 22, Radha – 
Calcutta - 4 . 

Kanto Jew Street , 27 - 9 -69 
Calcutta - 4 . 

U 
Safe Saving (Col.) 30 . 48 ( 1) Candida Films, 19A , Candida Films, 19A , 58425 
( Eng.) (35mm )(India ) 

Shakespeare Sarani, Shakespeare Sarani, - 
Cal. - 16 . Cal.- 16 . 

27 - 9 -69 
Endorsement 

This certificate is valid also for the Hindi, Bengali, Malayalam , Marathi & Tamil versions of the film . 


Endome 


triose is validati 


U 


C /6396 


Bandhan (Oriya) 
( 35mm )( India ) 


4871 •01 (17) Rajrani Films, Sutahat, Rajrani Films, Sutahat , 
Cuttack - 1 . 

Cuttack - 1 . 


58426 


27 - 9 -69 


U 
58427 


C /6406 -6407 Satabdir Oitijya (Col.) 30 .48 (1) Promotions India , 63B , Promotions India , 63B , 
(Bengali & Hindi) 

Wellesley Street, Wellesley Street, 
( 35mm ) (India) 

Calcutta - 16 . 

Calcutta - 16 . 
Endorsement 

The title of the film in Hindi version is " KESH SHRINGAR ” . 


27 -9 -69 


U 


C /6404 


Kamal Lata ( Beng.) 
(35mm )( India ) 


3992 -88 (14 ) Chhayabani (P ) Ltd ., Charu Chitra, 77 , Dha 58428 

77, Dharamtala Street, ramtala Street, Ćal.-13. --- 
Cal. - 13 . 

27 - 9 - 69 


PART III — SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1737 


NA 
Nur 


mu 


SCAR 


LEN 


4 


7 


LL 


MADRAS 


U 


M /5700 


M / 5723 


“Vemulawada Festi- 361 . 50 (1) Shri J. Sadagopan , Shri J . S . Sadagopan , 57351 
vals* ( Telugu ) 

J .S . Pictorials , J. S . Pictorials, 
(Kodachrome Col 

Tiruchirapalli. Tiruchirapalli . 

23 - 9 -69 
Our ) (35 mm .) India . 

U 
Ponnu Maappillay 3961: 17 (17 ) P .S . V . Pictures, P . S .V . Pictures, 57352 With triangle mark . 
( Tamil) (35 mm .) B & 

First St. , Lake Area , First St., Lake Area , - - 
W . India , 

Madras - 34 . Madras - 34 . 

23 - 9 - 69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 57352 -U dated 23rd September 1969 issued to the film ‘ Ponnu Mappilay ( Tamil). 

Length as in the application — 3961 · 17 Madras. 
Cuts 
Reel 12 - Delete the dialogue of Sethu " Onnumey Theriyadhu Engarey . Pinnay Metres. 

Pillai Kutti Eppadi ?" (Sound only removed ; replacement of sound approved ) 
Actual length of the film , therefore , remains the same namely 3961 ·17 Metres in 17 Reels . 

U 
‘Government of 305 . 00 ( 1) Principal, Institute Principal, Institute 57353 
Tamilnadu Regional 

of Film Technology , of Film Technology , 
Newsreel Bulletin 

Madras. Madras. 

23 - 9 - 69 
No. 16 ( Tamil ) (35 
mm .) ( B & W . ) ( India ). 

U 
* Easy to Carry - Easy 55 . 16 ( 1 ) Shri S . R . Saaz , Shri S . R . Saaz , 57354 
to Care (Silent film ) 

Madras, 

Madras. 
(35 mm .) ( B . & W . ) 

23-9 -69 
(India ) . 


M /5725 


M /5727 


U 


M /5718 

"Gruhalakshmi (Kan - 4467 . 14 (18 ) Ramesh Movies , 15 , Ramesh Movies, 15 , 57355 
nada ) ( 35 mm .) ( B & 

III Cross, N . S . III Cross , N . S . - 
W . ) (India ) . 

Iyengar St., Bangalore Iyengar St., Bangalore 24 -9 -69 
20 . 20 . 

U 
M /5739 

"Government of 295 . 00 ( 1 ) The Principal, The Principal 57356 
Tamilnadu Regional 

Institute of Film Institute of Film -- - 
Newsreel Bulletin 

Technology , Madras . Technology , Madras. 24 - 9 -69 
No . 16 - A . ( Tamil ) 
(35 mm .) (B & W . ) 
( India ). 

U 
M / 5695 *Mukunda Chandra ’ 4890 .50( 18 ) Malladi Movies , Malladi Movies , 57357 With triangle mark . 
(Kannada ) ( 35 mm . ) 

Davangere,Mysore . Davangere , Mysore . - 
(B & W .) (India ). 

24 - 9 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 57357 - U dated 24th September 1969 - issued to the film Mukunda Chandra (Kannada ) 

35 mm , B & W . 
Length as in the application - - 4897 . 79 Metres . 

Cuts 
1 . Reel 2 - Delete the words You rascal uttered by Satish to Rajni when playing Metres . 

ping- pong and the ball hits him on his eyes . ( Sound only ) ) . . . . . . .. 
2 . Reel 7 - Delete the portion where Rajni addresses her father Haridas and calls him 

a Rakshasa . (Sound only ) . . . . . . . . . 
3 . Reel 12 – Delete the shot where Sarasu is embraced by Rajinder in bathing costume 

and he puts his hand on her breasts and near the arm - pit . . 
4 . Reel 15 – Delete the following shots :-- (a) Where Rajinder pulls Sarasu bet 
ween his legs 

2 . 13 
(b ) Where his neck and head are resting on Sarasu s busts ; (c ) the 
final shot where he is shown lying over her . ( 2 . 13 and 4 . 25 ) . . . . 4 . 25 
Total cuts . . . . . . 

7 . 29 
Actual length of the film after cuts will be 4890 - 50 Metres in 18 Reels. 
Particulars of films Certified or Refused certificates by the central Board of film censors during the week ending - 4th October 1969, 

BOMBAY 

U 
B / 57632 “ Man & Computer - 213 . 76 (4 ) Sat Saraf, External, 1. B . M . ( U . K .). 

59235 
A Perspective " (Col.) 

Communications Offi 
(English ) ( 16 mm .) cer , I. B . M . Nehru 

29 -9 -69 
(U . K .). 

House , B . S . Z . Marg , 
New Delhi. 

U 
B / 57711 

“ Winning" (Col.) 3471 . 06 ( 18 ) Universal Pictures Universal Pictures 59236 
( English ) (35 mm .) 

( I) P . Ltd . Metro Company Inc . New - 
(U . S .A .) . 

House, M .G . Rd., York , ( U .S . A .). 29-9 -69 
Bombay - 1 . 


Rainder bule Sarkon me 


ww 


1738 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[Part III — SEC , 4 


= 


1 


B /57280 


Studios 


59237 


" Bella " (Widescreen ) 
(Col.) (English ) (35 
mm . ) ( U . S . S . R .) . 


3192(12) Sovexportfilm , 163, Gorky Film 

Lower Colaba , Rd ., ( U . S . S . R .) . 
Bombay - 5. 


29 - 9 -69 


B / 57281 


90 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


Trailer of “ Bella ” 
(Widescreen ) (Col.) 
( English ) (35 mm . ) 
U . S . S .R . ) . 


Do. 


59238 


59238 


29 - 9 -69 


B / 57516 


( Japan ) 


59239 


" The Ugly Duckling " 

(Col.) (English ) ( 16 
mm . ) (Japan ) . 


220 ( 1 ) National Education Gakken Film 

& Information Films 
Ltd ., National House , 
Tulloch 
Bombay . 


29 - 9 -69 


Rd. , 


B /57518 


185 (1) 


Do . 


“ Cabbage Butterfly " 
(16 mm .) (Japan ) . 


Gakken 
(Japan ) . 


Co . 


Ltd . 


U 
59240 

- 
29 - 9 -69 

U 
59241 


Title in Japanese , 
commentary 
English , 


B /57517 


121. 00(1) 


Do . 


“ Killi Fish ” ( 16 mm .) 
( Japan ) . 


Do. 


Do . 


29 - 9 - 69 

U 
59242 


B / 57333 


138 .07(1) 


Do. 


U . S . Department of 
Health Education – 
& Welfare ( U . S . A .). 


29 - 9 -69 


" Tuberculosis : Labo 
ratory Aids To 
Diagnosis And 
Treatment" (Col.) 
( English ) (16 mm .) 
( U . S . A .). 


U 
59243 


B /57631 


“ Glimpses” (Gandhi 

Centenary Film ) 
(Silent) ( 16 mm .) 
( India ) . 


91 . 44 ( 1 ) National Inst. of National Inst, of 

Design , Ahmedabad . Design , Ahmedabad . - 


30 -9 -69 


B /57836 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1095 " ( 35 mm .) 
(India ). 


U 
177 . 65 ( 1 ) Films Division , Films Division , 59244 Valid for 14 versions . 

Govt. of India , Govt. of India , 
Bombay . Bombay . 

30 - 9 - 69 

U 
274 .32 (1) The Director of The Director of 59245 Valid for Marathi 

Publicity , Govt . Publicity , Govt . -- - - - & Hindi versions. 
of Maharashtra , of Maharashtra , 30 - 9 -69 
Sachivalya , Bombay . Sachivalya , Bombay . 


B /57859 -60 


" Maharashtra News 
No. 208 September 
69 " (35 mm .) (India ). 


U 


B / 57862 


" Struggle For Space " 
( English ) (35 mm . ) 
( India ). 


B /57548 


" Dandi Yatra " (Hindi) 
(35 mm .) (India ). 


301 ( 1 ) Asian Films, Alankar Asian Films, Bombay . 59246 

Theatre Bldg ., U . P . 
Rd., Bombay . 

30 - 9 -69 

U 
470 .60 ( 2 ) Director of Informa- Director of Informa 59247 

tion , Govt. of tion , Govt. of - 
Gujarat, Sachivalya , Gujarat, Sachivalya , 30 - 9 -69 
Ahmedabad - 15 . Ahmedabad - 15 . 

U 
4551 . 87 ( 17) Bahar Films Combi- Hargobind , Bombay 59248 With triangle mark , 

ned , Roop Tara 14 . 
Studios , Dadar , 

30 - 9 -69 
Bombay - 14 . 


B /57500 


" Doli ” (Col.) (Hindi) 
(35 mm . ) ( India ) . 


B / 57877 


Endorsement 
Original length - 4561 . 47 m . 
Reel VIII- From the dance sequence laid in the night club delete the close front view of the dancer in the opening scene 

making indecorous hip movements and her subsequent view as she raises her leg before the hero as also 

her shots in diaphanous costume, shaking busts and her backward hip movements - 9 . 60 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 4551 .87 m . 

U 
" Life ” (Col.) ( 35 mm .) 435 . 25 (2 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 59249 Valid for 14 ver 
( India ). of India , Bombay . of India , Bombay . 

sions. 
30 - 9 -69 

U 
" Blue Circle Group 91 . 44 (1 ) Mr. Neville Frank Cygnet Films Ltd , 59250 
Sandtex Decorative 

C . Hilling, Killick ( U . K .) . 
Finish " (Col.) House, Home Street, 

30 - 9 -69 
(English ) ( 16 mm . ) 

Fort, Bombay- ) . 
(U .K .) . 


B / 57817 


PART III - SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1982 ) 


1739 


- 


_ 


2 


B / 57545 


“ Surya Devta ” (Hindi) 3945 . 95 ( 15) World Wide Film Alice Pictures, 18 , 59251 With triangle mark . 
(35 mm . ) (India ). 

Distributors, 3 F , Swapna, P . M . Rd. - 
Naaz Building , Parle (East ), Bom - 30 -9-69 
Lamington Rd ., Bom - bay - 57 , 

bay - 4 . 
Endorsement 
Original length — 3960 .88 m . 
Reel I – Insert a tablet to the following effect :" The Original story of the marriage of Tapti with Samvarna as given in 

Mahabarata has been presented here with additions and embellishments so as to bring out the importance of 

Surya Devta ” . - 6 . 10 m . 
Reel IX - Delete all references to ‘Laddụ and Bharphi etc ., with reference to a woman in the dialogue of Vidushaka 

and Tingala - - 9 . 14 m . 
Reel X - Delete the erotic references in the dialogues between Tingala and another man who is her husband for that 

day - 11 . 89 m . 
Length of deletions — 21 . 03 m . 
Length of additions _ 6 . 10 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will bem- 3945 . 95 m . 


U 


B /57853 


30 . 48 ( 1) 


59252 


“ Murphy Jahan Jahan 
Khushiyan Vahan 
Vahan " (Col.) (Hindi) 
(35 mm .) (India ). 


16 / 35 Movie Pro - 16 /35 Movie Pro 
ductions, Hague ductions, Bombay . 
Bldg ., Sprott Rd . , 
Ballard Estate , 
Bombay. 


3 - 10 -69 


B /57857 


30 . 48 (1) 


U 
59253 


" A Problem of The 
Fun - Filled Years " 
( Col.) (English ) (35 
mm .) (India ) . 


Durgą Khote Pro- Durga Khote Pro 
ductions , India ductions, Bombay . 
House , 1st floor . 
Oppo . G . P .O . , Bom 


3 - 10 -69 


bay . 


B / 57856 


30 .48 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


59254 


" Keep Pimples , Away 

The Clearasil Way". 
(Col. ) (English ) (35 
mm ) ( India ). 


3- 10- 69 


U 
59255 


B /57854 


273 ( 1) 


Studios 


“ 10 Minutes Around 

The U . S. S . R .” 
( ACTOSS Georgia ) 
( Col.) (English ) 
(35 mm ) (U .S.S. R .). 


Sovexportfilm , 163, Filmexport 
Lower Colaba Road (U . S. S .R .) 
Bombay - 5 . 


3 - 10 - 69 


U 


BA % 7855 


286 (1 ) 


Do . 


Popular 


Central 


“ This is Cosmos 12 " 

(Col.) (English ) (35 
mm ) ( U .S .S . R .). 


59256 


Science Film Studios 
( U .S .S . R .) 


3 - 10 -69 

U 
59257 


B /57769 


Trailer of “ Doli ” 

(Col.) (Hindi) ( 35 
mm ) ( India ) 


122 ( 1 ) Prestige Films, Shakti Prestige Films, Bom 

Sadan, 163 , Laming- bay -4 . 
ton Road , Bombay - 4 . 


3 - 10 -69 


B / 57504 


59258 


“ Digital Computer 

Techniques : Intro 
duction ” ( Col. ) (Eng 
lish ) ( 16 mm ) (U .S . A .) . 


3 - 10 -69 


182 . 88 (2 ) National Education The U .S . Navy Train 

& Information Films ing Film (U . S .A .) 
Ltd . 
National House, Tu 

lloch Road , Bombay . 
304 . 80 ( 3 ) Do. U . S. Office of Educa - 

tion ( U . S . Department - 
of Health , Education 
and Welfare ) (U . S . A .) 


U 


B / 57507 


59259 


“ Mathematics : Un 

ending Search For 
Excellence " (English ) 
(16 mm ) (U . S. A .). 


3- 10 -69 


B / 57506 


308 - 76(3) 


U 
59260 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


“ Mathematics Throu 
gh Discovery " (Eng 
Hish ) ( 16 mm ) 
(U .S .A .). 


3- 10 - 69 


B /57505 


160 - 32 ( 2) 


Do. 


U 
59261 


“ Digital Computer 

Techniques ( Col.) 
(English ) ( 16 mm ) 
(U . S . A .). 


The U . S . Navy Train 
ing Film (U . S . A .) - 


3 - 10 -69 


B /57677 


“ Jungle King " (Hindi) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


3863 -01 ( 15 ) Pankaj Films, Flat No. J. L . Prasher, Bombay- 

376 , 14th Road , 52 . 
Khar, Bombay - 52. 


U 
59262 
3 - 10 -69 


299G1/70 7 


1740 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 1, 1892) 


[PART III — Sec. 4 


* * * 


3 


4 


6 


B /57815 


59263 


“ Footprints On The 
Moon Apollo 11" 
(Col.) ( English ) (35 
mm ) ( U .S . A .) . 


2619 . 76 (10) 20th Century Fox Barry Coe ( U . S.A .) 

Corp . ( I ) Private Ltd . , 
Metro House , M . G . 
Road , Bombay -1 . 


3 - 10 -69 


B /57539 “ An Article of Faith " 375 .81( 2 ) S .P . Chowdhury, Clo S . P . Chowdhury 59264 
( English ) ( 35 mm ) 

Image India Films Bombay . 
(India ). Private Limited 

4 - 10 -69 
Nanabhay Mansion , 
Sir P . M . Road , 
Bombay - 1 , 

U 
B /57626 " Ittefak " (Col. ) (Hindi) 3015 .13 ( 12) B . R . Chopra , 4 , Chi- B . R . Chopra , Bom 59265 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 

noy Colony, Juhu bay- 54 . 
Road, Santacruz, 

4 - 10 - 69 
Bombay - 54 . 

U 
B /57777 -79 “ Around The Soviet 118 .85 (1 ) U .S . S .R . Consulate Central Documentary 59266 With triangle mark . 
Union No . 49 " General, 42 , Nepean Film Studio 

Valid for Bengali , 
( 16 mm ) (U . S .S. R .). Sea Road , Bombay. ( U . S .S .R .) 

4 - 10 - 69 Masathi & Pun 

jabi versions. 
Endorsement 
Original length - - 120 .00m . 

Delete the following sentence from the commentary : 

“ The American aggressors brought violence and destruction to this land " - 1 . 15m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will bem - 118 .85m . 


* 


ENDORSEMENTS 

ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 
B /55083 
Film - " Fallacy ” (English ) 
U - 57733 dated 3 -7 -69 
The addition of the words “ The film is a monologue of an anguished writer about problems of life is approved . 

- 4 . 27m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid additions will be — 193 . 76m . 
The certificate was endorsed on 3rd October 1969 . 
B /56645 
Film - “ She Knows ” ( English ) 
U - 57198 dated 22 - 5-69 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindiversion of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unaltered 
The certificate was endorsed on 4th October 1969 . 
B /56646 
Film -_ -“ Can You Drink An Apple ” (English ) 
U - 57546 dated 31- 5 -69 
The certificate is vaild also for the Hindiversion of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 4th October 1969 . 

CALCUTTA 


U 


C /6400 


Maa - O -Meye ( Beng.) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


3640 . 53 (13) 


B . N . Roy Produc - B . N . Roy , Clo B , N . 

tions, 2 , Chowring - Roy Productions, 
hee Road , Calcutta - 2 , Chowringhee Rd., 

Calcutta - 13 . 
MADRAS 


58429 
29-9 -6 ) 


13. 


U 


M /5697 


“Dhorala Dhongala 3834 . 38 ( 15) Sunil Pictures, 505 , Sunil Pictures, 505 , 57358 With triangle mark . 
( Telugu ) ( 35 mm ) 

Mint St., Madras- 3 . Mint St., Madras - 3 . 
(B & W ) (India ). 

29- 9 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 57358 - U dated 29th September 1969 —- issued to the film Dhorala Dhongala ’( Telugu ). 

Length as in the application — 3834 .38 Metres. 
Cut- - 

Metres 
Reel 5 - Delete the word Padma Shri in the dialogue of Jecdi. ( Sound only ) . 
Actual length of the film remains the same, namely 3834 .38 Meters in 15 Reels. 


U 


M / 5699 


57359 


*Konda Veetu Simham 
( Telugu ) ( Eastman 
colour) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ) . 


4908 -20(19) East India Film Co . East India Film Co . 4 , 

(P ) Ltd ., 4 , General General Patters Rd., - 
Patters Road , Madras- 2 . 
Madras - 2 . 


29 - 9 -69 


- 


PART III - SEC . 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 27 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1741 


1 


2 


3 


5 


M /5714 


“Manushulu Marali 
( Telugu ) (35 mm ) 
( B & W (India ) . 


U 
4377. 25 (18 ) Gemini Film Enter - Gemini Film Enter - 57360 

prises, 23 , Edward El- prises, 23, Edward El- -- - 
liots Road , Madras- 4 . liots Road , Madras -4 . 29 - 9 -69 


U 


M /5726 


1 


" Life that was and still 53 .66 ( 1) Em . K . Movies, 14 , Shri M . K . Tiwari, Em . 57361 With triangle mark , 
could be ( Silent) (35 

Gaudiamutt Road , K , Movies , 14 , Gáudia . - 
mm ) ( B & W ) (India ). 

Madras- 14 . 

mutt Road , Madras - 14 . 30 -9-69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 57361- U dated 30th September 1969 issued to the film Life that was and still could be 

(Silent) 35 mm . 
Length as in the application —— 55 .17 Metres . 
Cut 

Metres 
Delete all the shots showing the male organ , even though covered , after the vasectomy 
operation 

1 . 51 
Actual length of the film after the cut will be 53 . 66 Metres in One Reel. 


U 


M / 5740 


Cuts 


Iru Kodugal ( Tamil ) 4681 . 72 ( 18 ) Kala Kendra Produc . Kala Kendra Produc . 57362 With triangle mark . 
(35 mm ) (B & W ) 

tions, 39 - A , East tions, 39 - A , East 
( India ). 

Abhiramapuram , Abhiramapuram , 

30 -9 -69 
Madras- 4 . 

Madras - 4 . 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 57362 - U dated 30th September, 1969 issued to the film Iru Kodugal ( Tamil) 

35 mm . B & W . 
Length as in the application – 4721 :91 Metres. 

Metres 
1 . Reel 2- Delete the statement made by a staff of the Collector s office (Nagesh ) 
" I think they are girls " 

0 .60 
2 . Reel 8 – - Delete the statement made by the staff of the Collector s office “ Collector 

Amma Iyanai Vechhikittu Irukkanga " ( Sound only ; replacement 

of sound approved ). . . . . 
3 . Reel 8 - Delete the reference made to the marriage of Jacqueline Kennedy and 
Onassis 

9 . 14 
4 . Reel 11 -- Delete the statement made by Nagesh to the lady clerk of the Collector s 
office " Munney Pillai Petthirundhathane Theriyum " . . 

2 . 74 
5 . Reel 18 - Delete the statement made by Jaya s father “ Maappillai Gettikajal , 
SariKattiduyaaru " 

4 . 25 


Total cuts 


16 . 73 


Voluntary deletions from Reels 16 & 17 -- 23.46 Metres . 
Actual length of the film after cuts and voluntary deletions will be 4681.72 Metres in 18 


Reels. 


M /5724 


« Elleioo Naane 4241 . 30 ( 15 ) Parameswari Films, Parameswari Films, 237 - A With triangle mark . 
(Kannada ) ( 35 mm ) 

Chitaranjan Mahal Chitaranjan Mahal. - 
( B & W ) ( India ). 

Premier Industrial Premier Industrial 30 - 9 -69 

Estates , Mysore -2 . Estates, Mysore -2 . 
Endorsement on Certificate No . 237- A dt. 30 - 9-69 issued to the film Elleloo Naane (Kannada ) 35mm . B & W . 


Metres 


Length as in the application - 4267 . 20 Metres. 
Cuts 
1 . Reel 4 - Delete the shot in the dance where two separate pairs of girls face each 

other and shake their bodies sideways in a suggestive manner 
2 . Reel 4 - In the song beginning with the words ‘ Yaru Kanada Aa Swarga delete 

the picturisation corresponding to following 3 lines (a ) Tore 
Ninthitha Ye Hennu Illidhe ; ( b ) Matthu Kavidhaka Aaveka 
Jallinthadhu ; (c ) Theerusu Daha Eedeha Jammendhadhu 


6 . 09 


19 .81 


Total cuts 


25 . 90 


Actuallength of the film after the cuts will be 4241. 30 Metres in 15 Reels. 


M / 5741 


"Keep the Wheels 
Moving (English ) (35 
mm ) (B & W ) ( India ). 


30 . 48 ( 1) Krishnaswamy Asso - Krishnaswamy Asso 

ciates , CIT , Madras -4 , ciates , CIT , Madras-4 . 


57363 


30 - 9 -69 


M / 5742 


38 .71 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


57364 


Sariyana 
( Tamil) 
(B & W ) 


Murai 
(35 mm ) 
(India ). 


30 - 9 - 69 


1742 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[PART III — SEC . 4 


WE 


Em 


2 


3 


U 
57365 


M /5743 


Sariyana Margamu 
( Telugu ) (35 mm .) 
(B & W ) (India ). 


41 . 76 ( 1 ) Krishnaswamy Asso - Krishnaswamy, Asso 
ciates , CIT , Madras- 4 . ciates , CIT , Madras- – 

4 . 


30 -9 -69 

U 
57366 


M15728 


45 . 72 (1 ) 


‘Kassim Bros ( Tamil) 
( 35 mm ) ( B & W ) 
( India ). 


V . K . Publicities, 77 , 
Pondy Bazar , Madras - 
17 . 


V . K . Publicities , 77 , 
Pondy Bazar, Madras 
17 . 


3 - 10 -69 


M / 5662 


335 . 28 ( 1) 


57367 


P . E . 


Fluid Mechanics -- The 
Boundary Layer " 
(English ) (16 mm ) 
(Colour) (USA ) . 


The Principal, College St. Anthony Falls 
of Engineering , Hydraulic Labora 
Madras -25 . 

tory , University of 
Minnesota , USA , 


4 - 10 -69 


U 


M / 5746 


triangle 


Dharmaputhni ( Tel - 4509 . 80 (16 ) Reddy & Company , Reddy & Company , 57368 With 
ugu ) ( 35 mm ) ( B & No. 3 , III Cross St. , No. 3, 111 Cross , West 

mark . 
W ) ( India ) . 

West CIT , Madras -35 . CIT , Madias -35 . 4 - 10 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No . 57368 - U dated 4th October 1969 issued to the film Dharmapathni ( Telugu ). 
Length as in the application = 4515 . 87 Metres . 


Metres 


0 .45 


Cuts 
1. Reel 3 – Song 1-- - Delete the portion of the shot where Madhu s face passes over the bust of 

padma .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. .. . . .. 
2 . Reel9 Delete the dialogue of Nagahbushanam " Aavidaku Pillalu Pattarani Cheppevu ” , 

referring to his sister . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . 
3 . Reel 14Song 5 — (a ) Delete the shot of Malli caressing the thigh of Bulli when they sit together ; 

(b ) Delete the shot of Malli laying his hands on the posterior of Bulli and pushing her for 
ward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Total cuts 


2 .43 
2 . 28 
0 .91 


6 .07 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be 4509 . 80 Metres in 16 Reels . 
Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificate by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week - erding 

11th October 1969. 


BOMBAY 


B /57858 


59267 


“ Hojamaalo " (Sin - 
dhi) ( 35 mm ) (India ). 


3751 . 48 (14 ) Koonj Films, 22 - B , Hari Motwani, Bom - 

Trilok , Dr. Ambed - , bay- 50 . 
kar Road , Bombay -50 . 


6 - 10 -69 


U 


B /57902 


Bom 


59268 


Trailer of “ Anjaan 
Hai Koyee " (Hindi) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


90 .53 (1) I. M , Kunnu , Clo Brahmbhat, 

Bombay Film Labo - bay- 28 . 
ratory , Dadar , 
Bombay - 28 . 


6 - 10 -69 


B /57615 


1470 .00 ( 5 ) 


" Rainbow Over 
Russia ” (35 mm ) 
( U . S .S . R . ) (Col.) . 


The U . S .S .R . Con - Leningrad 
sulate General, 42 , Studio , 
Nepean Sea Road , 
Bombay . 


Newsreel 
U . S . S . R . 


59269 Russian titles valid 

---- o for English , Mara 
6 - 10 -69 thi, Gujarati & 

Malayalam ver 
sions . 


B /57895 


Arts, 


59270 


" Bush Transistor Ra 
dios " (Col.) (Eng 
lish ) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ). 


30 . 48 ( 1) United Film Arts, United Film 

14 , Rock House , Bombay - 18 . 
Worli , Bombay - 18 


6 - 10 -69 


u 
59271 


30 .48 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


B /57894 


Do . 


“ Break The Fashion 
Berrier " (Col.) (Eng 
lish ) (35 mm ) 
( India ). 


6 - 10 -69 


U 
59272 


B /57503 


171 -60 ( 2 ) Naticnal Education 

& Information Films 
Ltd . , National House , 
Tulloch Rd ., Bombay . 


The U . S , Navy Train 
ing Film ( U . S . A . ) - 


“ Digital Computer 

Techniques : Com 
puter Logic Logic 
Elements ( Part - 2 )" 
(Col.) (English ) ( 16 
mm ) ( U . S . A .) . 


6 -10 -69 


B /57759 


“ Daybreak Express" 
(Col. ) ( 16 mm ) 
( U .S .A .). 


60 - 96 (1) U . S . Information 

Service , Fazal Bhoy 
House , Marine Lines , 
Bombay . 


D . A . Pennebaker 
( U . S . A .) 


U 
59273 No dialogue or com 

- mentary . 
6 - 10 - 69 


WS 


PART III - SEC. 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1743 


_ 


nh 
MMM 


WL 


UN 


1 


2 


3 


U 


B /57825 


59274 


“ Chhan 

Chham 
Karta Vim ” (Hindi) 
( Col.) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ). 


22 - 85 (1) F . B . Productions, F . B . Productions. 

Film Centre , 68 , Bombay - 34 . 
Tardeo Road , Bom 
bay- 34 . 


6 - 10 -69 


B /57833 


30 .00 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


59275 


" The World of Dun 
lopillo " (Col. ) (Eng 
lish ) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ). 


6 - 10 -69 


U 


B /57863 


song 


“ How To Be Beauti 
ful” (35 mm ) (India ). 


30 .00 (1) Widescreen , 4 , Shirin , Widescreen , Bombay - 5 . 

Colaba Post Office , 
Bombay- 5 . 


Valid for English 
& Hindi versions. 


64 


59276 

- 
6 -10-69 

U 
59277 


B /57865 


30 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


“ Double Acting De 
quadin " (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


Valid for English 

& Hindi versions. 


66 


6 - 10 -69 


B /57631 


59278 


“ True 
(English ) 
( U . S .S . R .). 


Stories" 
( 16 mm ) 


41 


Film 


7 - 10 -69 


570 . 00 ( 5 ) U . S .S.R . Consulate The Central Popular 

General, 42 , Nepean Science 

Sea Road , Bombay. Studios (U .S.S.R .) 
29 .87 ( 1 ) Trio Films, Jyoti Stu - Trio Films, Bombay - 7. 

dics, Kennedy Bridge , 
Bombay - 7 . 


U 


B /57839. 


“ Vera " (Col.) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


45 


59279 Valid for English , 

Hindi, Bengali, 
7 - 10 -69 Tamil, Telugu , 

Kannada & Mal 
yalam versions. 


U 


B /57628 


59280 


" Apna Khoon Apna 
Dushman ” (Hindi) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


3962 . 40 ( 16 ) Rainbow Films, 139, Kumran A . Khan , 

Famous Cine Bldg. Bombay - 11 . 
Hains Rd. , Maha 
laxmi, Bombay- 11. 


7 - 10 -69 


B / 57639 


59281 With triangle mark . 


“ Pyar Hi Pyar " ( Col.) 
(Hindi) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


4411 .07(17) R . S . Productions, 8, Rajaram & Satish 

Kakad Estate , Worli Wagle , Bombay - 18 . 
Sea Face , Bombay - 18 . 


7 - 10 -69 


Endorsement 
Original length — 4457 .40m . 
Reel II - Reduce the dialogues about sharing of the embrace of the girl and the actual scene of embracing of Cham 

chham by Vijay . - 25 .30 m . (Length retained _ 49 .07 m .) 
Reel VII - Delete the word Sala used twice by Jatadhari , also delete the following sentence in the comedian s dialogue 

Garam karke aata hun ( Sound only ) . 
Reel VIII Delete the following dialogue " Wohi jo ek jawan mard ek hasin ladki se chahta hai--- upto Mard aurat 

se kya chahta haj" _ 5 .49 m . 
Reel Ix _ In the scene in the office of the CID Inspector delete the shot showing Gupta catching the hard of Kavita 

2 . 74m . 
Reel XII — Delete the underlined word from the following sentence . “ Main hi Mrs. Savitri Nagam Hun ” ( Sound 

only ) 
Reel XVII- Reduce the fight sequences. - 12 .80m . (Length retained - 123 .44m .) 
Length of deletions- -46 - 33m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be - 4411 .07m . 


B /57905 


59282 


“ Teaser Trailer of 
" The Mad Woman 
of Chaillot " (Col.) 
( 35 mm ) ( English ) 
( U .S . A .). 


28 -65 ( 1 ) Warner Bros. Seven Mr. Ely A . Landau 

Arts (F .E .) Inc . (U .S .A .) 
Eros Building Church 
gate , Bombay 


7 - 10 -69 


B / 57890 


Films, Bom 


59283 


" Rallis Kalpayri 
ksha ” (Col.) (Hindi) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


29 -87(1) Trio Films, Jyoti Trio 

Studio , Kennedy bay - 7 . 
Bridge, Bombay -7 . 


8 - 10 -69 

U 
59284 


B /57869 


" Bringing - Up - Baby " 
(Col.) (Hindi) (35 
mm ) ( India ). 


30 -48 ( 1 ) Filmiets ( P .) Ltd . , G . S . Chawla , 3- 17 / A , 

North Bombay Asaf Ali Road , 
Society , E -75 , Church New Delhi-2 . 
Road , Juhu , Borr 
bay -54 . 


8 - 10 - 69 


U 


B / 57870 


30 . 48 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


( Col.) 
( 35 mm ) 


“ Talash " 
(Hindi) 
(India ). 


59285 


8 - 10 -69 


- 


- 


1744 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[Part III — Sec . 4 . 


mm 


MAWALA 


5 


6 


B / 57871 


Boac 


“ The World of Boac" 

( Col.) (16 mm ) 
(India ). 


149 .04 (2 ) Filmlets ( P ) Ltd . 

North Bombay 
Society , E - 75 , Church 
Road , Juhu , Bom 
bay - 54 . 


59286 No dialogue or com 

- mentary , 
8 - 10 -69 


11 


B /57246 


59287 


“ O S " 

(English ) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


125 .57( 1) Film Institute of Film Institute of India , 

India , Law College Poona - 4 . 
Road , Poona - 4 . 


8 - 10 -69 

U 
59288 


B / 57243 


376 . 00 (2) 


Do . 


Do. 


" O Tempora O Mores " 
(English ) (35 mm ) 
( India ). 
" Hands" (English ) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


8 - 10 -69 

U 
59289 


B /57244 


393 .00 (2 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


8 - 10 -69 


B /57247 


" Hides & Strings " 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


175 . 34 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


B / 57846 

52 


" The Small Man " 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


29 .87 (1) S . S. Oberoi, Art Com - Art Commercia , Bom 

mercia , Manek Cha - bay -4 . 
mbers, 399 - A , Lamin 
gton Road, Bombay 


59290 No dialogue or com 

mentary . 
8 - 10 -69 

U 
59291 

- - - Valid for English , 
8 - 10 -69 Hindi, Marathi, 

Tamil , Telugu , 
Kannada & Ma 

layalam versions. 
U 
59292 


B / 57045 


“ Sergei Lazo " (English ) 
( 16 mm ) (U .S.S .R .). 


978 . 00 (9 ) U . S .S .R . Consulate Moldavian Film Stu - 

General , 42, Nepean dio (U .S .S.R ). 

Sea Road , Bombay . 
206 . 04 ( 1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt . 

of India , Bombay . of India , Bombay . 


B /57893 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1096 " (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


8 - 10 -69 

U 
59293 Valid for 14 

- sions. 
8- 10 -69 


ver 


B /57914 


93 . 57 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1096 - A ” (35mm ) 
(India ). 


Valid for 14 
sions. 


ver 


59294 

- 
8 - 10 -69 

U 
59295 


B /57241 


The Epitaph ” (Hindi) 
( 35 mm ) ( India ). 


350 .50 ( 2 ) Film Institute of India , 

Law College Road , 
Poona-4 . 


Film Institute of India , 
Poona-4 . 


9 - 10 -69 


U 


B /57448 


" The Great Bank Rob 2624 . 57 (5) Warner Bros. Seven Malcoim Stuart 59296 With triangle mark . 
bery " (Panavision ) 

Arts ( F . E .) Inc . Eros ( U . S . A .). 
(Col.) (English ) Bldg., Churchgate , 

9 - 10 -69 
(35 mm ) ( U .S . A .). 

Bombay . 
Endorsement 
Original length - - 2644 .44 m . 
Reel III --Delete the shots of Lyda holding her blouse with both the hands and showing her bare bosoms 10 Ben 

Quick .-- - 14 :33 m . 
Reel IV - Delete prominent shots showing Lyda in the nude moving on the horse -- 5 .54 m . 
Length of deletions- 19 .87 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be - - 2624 •57 m . 

U 
" For Pimple - Free 30 -48 ( 1) Durga Khote Produc - Durga Khote Produc - 59297 Valid for English , 
Fun " (Col.) (35 mm ) tions , India House , tions , Bornbay - 1 . 

- - Telugu , Kannada 
(India ). First Floor, Fort St., 

10 - 10 -69 & Malayalam 
Bombay - 1 . 

versions. 


B /57873 -76 


B / 57629 - 30 


“ Thoroughly Modern 
Modella " (Col.) 
( 35 mm ) (India ). 


- 


30 .481 ) 
30 .48 ( 1) Santos Film Corpo - Santos Films Corpo 

ration , Havabai ration , Bombay -1 ." 
Mansion , 3rd floor, 
4 , S . B . Road , Opp . 
Old Custom House , 
Bombay - 1 . 


59298 

and 
10 - 10 - 69 


Valid for English & 

Hindi versions. 


B /57913 


59299 


" Aerial Photo - Inter 
pretation for The 
Discovery and Eva 
luation of Soil Re 
sources " (Col.) ( En 
glish ) (16 mm ) 
U . S . A .). 


401 12 ( 1 ) Director Incharge U . S . Geological Sur 

Photo - Interpretation vey ( U . S .A .). 
Institute Survey 
of India , 51 
H , Hardwar Road , 
Dehradun . 


10 - 10 -69 


H 


BART III- SEC. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1745 


V 


M 


SE 


2 


3456 


MM 


MUUN 


B / 57911 


U 
59300 


" Introduction To 
Photе -Interpretation 
(Col.) (English ) 
(16 mm ) (U .S . A .). 


243 -54 (1 ) Director Incharge, U . S . Geological Sur 

Indian Photo -Inter - vey ( U . S . A .). 
pretatio , Instituten 
Survey of India , 51 
H , Hardwar Road , 
Dehradun . 


10 - 10 - 69 


B /57912 


426 .72 (2 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


DO. 


59301 


59301 


- 


10 - 10 -69 


‘Aerial Photo - In 
terpretation For The 
Discovery And Eva 
luation of Forest Re 
sources " 

(Col.) 
(English ) ( 16 mm ) 
U . S . A . ). 


B /57927 - 28 


" Gandhijee Champa 
ran Me" (35 mm ) 
( India ). 


385 . 57 ( 1 ) Film Production Offi - Director of Public Re 59302 
cer, Govt . of Bihar . lations, Govt. of India . - 

10 - 10 - 69 


Valid for Hindi & 
English versions. 


B /57612 


“ Extra Strong Formu 
la For Coughs" 
(Hindi) 

(35 mm ) 
( India ). 


30 . 48 ( 1) National Advertising Jyoti G . Thakur, Jyoti 

Service, Khorshed Studios, Kennedy 
Bldg . Sir P . M . Rd ., Bridge , Bombay . 
Bombay - 1. 


59303 
- 
10 - 10 -69 


B / 57838 


30 . 48 (1) 


UT 
59304 


Do . 


“ Sight Seeing" . (Col.) 
(Hindi) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


S . H . Benson (I) (P ) 
Ltd . Steel Crete 
House , D . O . Road , 
Bombay . 


10 - 10 -69 


U 
59305 


B /57944 


Trailer of “ Seven Bri 
des For Seven Bro 
thers " (Col.) (Eng 
lish ) (35 mm ) 
(U .S. A .) . 


82 . 60 (1 ) Metro Goldwyn Ma- Metro Goldwyn May 

yer (1) Ltd . Metro CF ( U . S . A .). 
House , M , G . Road, 
Bombay . 


10 - 10 -69 


An 


B / 57645 


2621 


" Frankenstein Must 
Be Destroyed ” (Col.) 
( English ) (35 mm ) 
U . S . A . ). 


2757 (6 ) Warner Bros . Seven Anthony Nelson Keys. 

Arts ( F . E .) Inc . Eros (U . S .A .). 
Bldg . Churchgate , 
Bombay . 


6 - 10 - 69 


B / 57334 


2622 


“ Identification Of 
Early Syphilis " ( Col.) 
(English ) ( 16 mm ) 
U . S .A . ). 


266 . 39( 1) National Education U . S . Department of 

& Information Films Health & Welfare 
Ltd ., National (U .S . A .) 
House , Tulloch 
Road , Bombay . 


9 - 10 -69 


ENDORSEMENTS 

ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 
B /57219 
Film “ Aradhana" (Col.) (Hindi ). 
U -59234 dated 27 -9 -69 . 

Reel ly — Deleted various shots - 15 . 54 m . 
Reel XVIII - Deleted various shots - - 1 . 52 m . 

( Replaced with approved shots) - 1 . 52 m . 
Length of deletions - - 17 . 06 m . 
Length of replacements — 1 . 52 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be - 4647 . 96 m . 

The certificate was endorsed on 7th October 1969 , 
B / 31845 
Film - “ Swifter Than The Deer ” (Col .) (Eng. ) (35 mm ) 
U - 33401 dated 31- 8 -61 . 

Deleted various shots measuring- 7 .62 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be - - 30 . 48 m . 
The certificate was endorsed on 8th October 1969 . 

VERSIONS 
B / 57642 
Film " Don t Let Pimples Spoil Your Fun " (Eng. ) (Col.) 
U - 58273 dated 9- 9-69 . 

The certificate is also valid for the Hindi version in colour. The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 6th October 1969, 


1746 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[PART III — Sec . 4 


SNL 


3 

- 6 7 
B /57641 
Film — " For Pimples - A Simple Solution " 
U - 58274 dated 9 . 9.69 

The certificate is also valid for the Hindi & Telugu versions of the film in colour . 
The length of the film remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 6th October 1969 . 
B /47767 
Film – “ 7 days to Beauty " (Col.) (English ) 
U - 48620 dated 23 - 9 -66 

The certificate is also valid for the Bengali version of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remains unaffected . 

The certificate was endorsed on 6th October 1969 . 
B / 57898 
Film - " Men of Action ” (Col.) (English ) 
U -58369 dated 22 - 9 - 59 

The certificate is valid also for the Oriya , Kannada & Malayalam versions of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 8th October 1969 
B /57885 
Film - - " Are Pimples Your Problem ” (English ) 
U - 58400 dated 24 - 9 -69 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi ,Gujarati ,Marathi, Bengali & Tamil versions of the film in colour . 
The length of the film remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 8th October 1969. 
B /57833 
Film - " The World Of Dunlopillo " ( English ) (Col. ) 
U - 59275 dated 6 - 10 -69 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi, Bengali & Tamil versions of the film in colour . 
The length of the film remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 9th October 1969 . 
B / 57879 
Film — “ Fun Minus Pimples ” (Eng.) (Col. ) 
U - 59205 dated 24 - 9 - 69 

The certificate is valid also for the Marathi, Gujarati & Bengali versions of the film in colour . 
The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 9th October 1969 . 


CORRECTION 
B /57736 
Film - " Built To Take Punishment” (English ) 
U - 58399 dated 24 -9 -69 

The name of the applicant on the reverse of the certificate may be read as " Ulka Advertising " and not “ Durga 
Khote Productions " . 
The certificate was endorsed on 8th October 1969. 


CALCUTTA 


C /6397 


C -6398 -6399 Rup -Holo - Aporup 

38 . 10 (8 ) Progressive Enter- Progressive Enter- 58431 
(Col ) (Bengali) 

prisers, 32 / 3 / 5B , Sa - prisers, 32 /3 /5B , Sa - — 
& Hindi) ( 35 mm ) 

hitya Parishad Street, hitya Parishad Street, 7 - 10 -69 
( India ). 

Calcutta - 6 . 

Calcutta - 6 . 
Doctor Bezbarooah 4 , 238 . 20 ( 16 ) Rangghar Cine Pro - Rangghar Cine Pro - 58431 
(Assamese ) (35 mm ) ductions, Dibrugarh , ductions, Dibrugarh , 

- With triangle marks . 
( India ). 

Assam . Assam . 

10 - 10 -69 
Original length _ 4267 . 20 metres . 
Endorsement 

Reel 11 – Remove the impression of rape on Sonetora by Parama Hazarika by deleting all shots beginning from 

his pulling off the bed cover from her body when she was lying on the bed and ending with her running away . 

23 . 00 metres . 
Reel 13 _ Delete the words “ Whisky aui woh ladki" from the dialogue of Parama Hazarika - 3 . 00 metres . 
Reel 13 - Deleted voluntarily the following dialogues : 

“ Pap ? Money Lakhe ? Khoda ? Iswar ? God ? 
I want to meet and crush them all " 

3 . 00 metres. 
Total deletions- -29 Metres. 
Final length after above deletions - 4238 . 20 metres. 


PART III- SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1747 


. 


. 


w 


M 


1 


2 


4 


MADRAS 


M /5738 


Cuts 


Chattampikkavala 4 ,050 -48 ( 16 ) Sree Kumar Produc - " Sree Kumar Produc 57369 
(Malayalam ) (35 mm ) tions, Trivandrum - 1 . tions, Trivandrum - 1 . 

With triangle mark . 
(B . & W .) (India ). 

6 - 10 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 57369 -U dated 6th October 1969--- issued to the film Chattampikkavala (Malayalam ) 
(35 mm ) (B . & W . ) 
Length as in the application — 4084 · 58 Metres. 

Metres 
1. Reel 1 - Delete the statement of Rosamma saying “ Patthu Maasam Kazhiyum 
Mumbe Kochhu Onnu Kaiyilirukkum . . 

7 .00 
2 . Reel 4 - Reduce the length of the beating and fighting scene after the salesman is 
asked to get out . . . . . . .. .. . . .. .. .. 

16 . 15 
3. Reel 8 - Delete the shot where in the hotel room , Bahadur is lying on the cot with 
a lady and coming closer to her 

2 . 74 
4 . Reel 12 – Reduce the length of the Pujari eating like a glutton the plantain fruitrs 
and drinking brandy . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . .. 

8 . 21 
Total cuts 

34 . 10 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be - 4 ,050 .48 Metres in 16 Reels. 


M /5736 


57370 


Manashanthi (Kan - 
nada ) (35 mm ) ( B . & 
W ) ( Índia ). 


5, 180 -69(18 ) Amritakala Produc - Shri M . S . Nayar, 1 , 

tions, 1, Kodam - Kodambakkam High -- 
bakkam High Rd. , Rd, Madras - 34 . 
Madras- 34 . 


6 - 10 -69 


M / 5737 


‘Manasakshi ( Tamil ) 4 ,425 .07(17) Vijaya Balaji Movies, Vijaya Balaji Movies, 57371 
( 35 mm ) ( B . & W .) 

7 , Deenadayalu St., 7 , Deenadayalu St., - - With triangle mark . 
(India ). 

Madras - 17 . Madras- 17 . 

7 - 10 - 69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 57371- U dated 7th October 1969 - issued to the film Manasakshi ( Tamil) 35 mm . 
( B . & W .) . 

Length as in the application - 4425 . 07 Metres. 
Cuts 

Metres 
1. Reel 7 - In the song beginning with the words Ezhu Dinangal Oru Vaaram , 

delete the shot of the male putting his head on the breasts of the female, when 

the words Chandana Medayil Chandra Vaasalai are sung . . . . . . 2 . 13 
2 . Reel 13 – After the song beginning with the words Kottai Namadhu Kaiyile is 

over , delete the shots of Dorai rolling over the heroine Meena , when he is 
shot at by the men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

1 .82 
Total cuts 

3 . 95 


Actual length of the film after the cuts will be - 4421 12Metres in 17 Reels. 


M /5675 


M / 5748 


Citizens of To 30 .48 (1) Krishnaswamy Associa - Krishnaswamy Asso 57372 
morrow (English ) 

tes , CIT , Madras - 4 . ciates , CIT , Madras - 4 . - 
(35 mm ) ( Colour ) 

8 - 10 - 6 
(India .) 

U 
" Thirudan ( Tamil) 4721 96 ( 18 ) Sujatha Cine Arts, Sujatha Cine Arts , 57373 
(35 mm ) (B . & W .) 

29 - B , Pantheon Rd ., 29 - B , Pantheon Rd., -- With triangle mark . 
(India ). 

Madras - 8 . Madras - 8 . 

9 - 10 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 57373 - U dated 9th October 1969 - issued to the film “ Thirudan ( Tamil) (B . & W .) 
(35 mm ) . 

Length as in the application - 4751 ·21 Metres . 
Cuts 

Metres 
1 . Reel 2 - Delete the shots where Abiramishows her brassiers to Rangan and asks him 
to get brassiers . . 

. . 

. . . 23 . 79 
2 . Reel 5 - Reduce the length of the shot where Raju leans over Radha lying on the 
cot to examine the mole near her left shoulder . . . . . 

0 . 60 
3. Reel 5 - Delete the shot where the child after being put inside the room through 
the ventilator, opens the bolt of the door . . . . . . . . 

2 .43 
4 . Reel 7 – Delete the shot where after cutting the sheet glass on the door , the hand 
is put inside to open the bolt 

2 .43 
Total cuts 

. . 29 - 25 
Actual length of the film after cuts will be - 4721 .96 Metres in 18 Reels . 


Actual length 


M29961/ 
70 18 


1748 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[PART III- SEC . 4 


WL 


Suome 


MMM 


R 


6 


Particulars of Films Certified or refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 18th October 1969 . 

BOMBAY 

U 
B / 57783 Trailer of “ Beti ” 82 - 30 (1 ) Movie Advertising K . P . S . Films, Bom - 59306 
(Col.) (Hindustani) Agency , 3 /6th floor, bay - 34 . 

- With trianglemark . 
(35 mm ) (India ). Air Condition Mar 

13 - 10 -69 
ket, Tardeo , Bombay 

34 . 
Endorsement 
Original length —- 87 .48 m . 

Delete the words of the comedian to the woman " Zara tere nazuk pet ko dekhun " , therewith making a move 
to feel her stomach and the subsequent dialogue relating thereto .- 5 . 18 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be - - 82 30 m . 

U 
B /57323 Teaser Trailer of 31 : 39 (1) Metro Goldwyn Mayer Metro Goldwyn Mayer , 59307 
" Alfred The Great ” 

India Ltd ." Metro ( U . S . A .). 
(Widescreen ) ( Eng House , M . G . Road , 

13 - 10 -69 
lish ) ( Col.) (Ů . Š. 

Bombay - 1 . 
A .) . 

U 
B /57324 Announcement Trailer 45 .72(1 ) 

Do . 

Do , 

59308 
of " Alfred The Great" 
(Widescreen ) (Eng 

13 - 10 -69 
lish ) (Col.) (35 mm ) 

(U . S . A .) . 
B /57692 “ Mother s Devotion " 968 . 00 (9 ) The U . S . S . R . Consu - Maxim Gorky Film 59309 
(Hindi) (16 mm ) 

late General, 42 , Studio , (U . S . S . R . ) . - 
U . S . S . R .) . Nepean Sea Rd. 

13- 10 -69 
Bombay . 


Do. 


39308 


U 


U 


B /57269 


59310 


" Mr. Dudley Senana 
yake Prime Minister 
of Ceylon Visits 
India " (English ) (35 
mm ) ( India ). 


468 .00 (2 ) Film Division , Govt. Film Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 , Peddar of India Bombay . 
Rd . Bombay . 


14 - 10 -69 


B /57256 


“ Mackenna s Gold ” 

(Col.) (English ) (35 
mm ) ( U . S . A .). 


3834 . 99 (9 ) Columbia Films of India Carl Foreman , ( U . S . 

Ltd . Metro House , M . A ) . 
G . Rd. Bombay - 1 . 


U 
59311 

--- With triangle mark . 
15 - 10 -69 


Endorsement 
Original length _- 3842 · 31 m . 
Reels V & VI - During the swimming scene of Colarado and Hesh -ke in the nude , delete shots of Colarodo and 

also Hesh -ke when she is dipping in the pool, emerging from the water and when her bare bosoms are pro 
minently seen . - 7 . 32 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will bem _ 3834 .99 m . 


U 


B /57965 


" I. N . R . No . 1097 " 
(35 mm ) ( Inidia ). 


150 .57 (1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt . 

of India , Bombay . of India , Bombay . 


59312 

- Valid for 14 versions. 
15- 10- 69 

U 
59313 


B /57950 


" O . T . C . Woollen 
Fabrics " ( Col.) 
(Hindi) (35 mm ) 
(India ) . 


16 - 10 -69 


30 . 18 (1) Kashmir Films, 4 , N . D . Qazi, Kashmir 

Ground floor, Pam - Films, Srinagar 
posh Bldg . Residency (Kashmir ). 

Rd . Srinagar (Kashmir ) 
304 •80 ( 1) J . McNally , 21 , Cathelral Films, Bom 

Club back Rd. bay -8 . 
Bombay - 8 . 


B / 57775 


59314 


" Return To Naza 
reth " (Col. ) (Hin 
dustani) (16 mm ) 
(India ). 


17- 10 -69 


U 
59315 


B / 57289 


“ Honour The Verdict " 

(English ) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ). 


154 .00 (1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , Bombay . of India , Bombay . 


17 - 10 -69 


B / 57268 


504(2) 


Do . 


Do . 


59316 


" Prime Minister of 
India Visits Bhutan 
& Sikkim " ( English ) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


17- 10 -69 


U 


B / 57861 


59317 


Trailer of “ Sanghursh ” 
( Col.) (Hindi) (35 
mm ) (India ). 


109 ( 1 ) Rahul Theatres ( India ) H , S , Rawail, Bombay 

309 - 13, Famous Cine 11 . 
Bldg. Mahalaxmi, 
Bombay - 11. 


17- 10 - 69 


PART III - Sec . 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1749 


- 


- 


LU 


mmmmmmmmmmm 


B / 57941 


Swedish Institute Gun - 
nar Hoghend (Sweden ) 


59318 


" The White Teddy 

Bear " (Col.) (Eng 
lish ) ( 16 mm ) 
(Sweden ). 


259 .08 ( 1) Royal Swedish Embassy 

Indian Mercantile 
Chambers , Nicol Rd . 
Ballard 

Estate , 
Bombay . 


17 - 10 - 69 


B /57943 


259 .08 (1) 


Do . 


“ Barn Och Farm " 
(Children And 
Colour) (Col.) ( Eng 
lish ) ( 16 mm ) 
(Sweden ). 


Thermenius Film 59319 
National Direction - 
of Education , (Sweden ) 17 - 10 -69 


B /57692 


59320 


" Laser " ( English ) (16 
mm ) ( U . K ) . 


160 - 32 ( 1 ) National Education & B . B . C . T . V . Enter 

Information Films Ltd . prises , (U . K .) . 
National House , 
Tulloch Rd. Bombay . 


17 - 10 -69 


U 
59321 


B / 57949 


215 ( 1 ) 


“ The Language of 

Japan " (Col.) (Eng 
lish ) ( 16 mm ) 
(Sweden ). 


M . O , Foreign Affairs Nihon Gijutsu Eigasha , 
Consulate General of (Sweden ). 
Japan , Kashmir 
House , 19, Nepean 
Sea Rd. Bombay - 6 
WB 


17 - 10 -69 


B /57926 


G . Straub , 


" Hydraulics of Cul 
vert Inlets " (Silent) 
(Colour) ( 16mm ) 
(U . S . A .) 


165 -51 (2 ) Chief Audio - visual Br- Lorenz 

anch U .S . Agency ( U .S . A .) 
for International De 
velopment (U . S . A .I. 
D . ) 


U 

59322 
17- 10 -69 


B /57393 


Trailer of " Project X " 
(Col.) (English ) 
(35mm ) (U .S .A .) 


B /57945 


“ The Pharmaceutical 
Industry In India " 
(Col. ) (English ) 
(35mm ) ( India ) 


60 -65 (1) Paramount Films of William 

Castle , 

59323 
India Ltd . Hague ( U . S . A . ) 
Bldg . Sprott Řd . 

17- 10 -69 
Bombay . 

U 
292 . 95 (1 ) The Basic Chemicals , Durga Khote Pro - 59324 

Pharmaceuticals & duction , India House -- - 
Soaps Export pro -. First floor Forts 17- 10 -69 
motion Council Jhansi Street, Bombay . 
Castle, 7 , Cooperage 
Rd. Bombay - 1 . 


U 


B /57916 


Arts 


irts 


59325 


30 -48 (1) United Film Arts , United Film 

14 , Rock House , Wo- Bombay - 18 . 
rli, Bombay - 18 . 


17- 10 - 69 


“ Start A Long Affair ” 

(Col.) (English ) 
(35mm ) (India ) 
“ Sati Sulochana” 
(Hindi) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


B /57946 


3907 •10 ( 15 ) S . A . Kapoor, Clo S . A . Kapoor, Bom 

Shree Sound Studios, bay- 14 . 
Gokuldas Pasta Rd. , 
Bombay - 14 . 


59326 
18 - 10 - 69 


B / 57625 


968 .00 (9 ) 


Studio , 


U 
59327 


" Mani Vafadari" 
(Gujarati) (16 mm ) 
U . S.S . R .). 


U . S. S . R . Consulate Gorky Film 
General, 42 , Nepean (U . S . S . R . ). 
Sea Rd. Bombay 


18 - 10 -69 


А 


B/ 56501 


2623 With triangle mark . 


“ The Prime of Miss 

Jean Brodie " (Col.) 
( English ) (35 mm ) 
(U . S .A .). 


3148 ·64(12 ) 20th Century Fox Robert Fryer (U .S.A .). 

Corp . (I) Pyt. Ltd ., 
Metro House , M . G . 
Rd. , Bombay . 


16 - 10 -69 


Endorsement 

Originallength - 3200 - 40 m . 
Reel III — From the dialogue between Jenny and Sandy , delete the following sentence : “ Do you think Miss Brodie 

had sexual intercourse with Hugh of Flanders ? Before he fell ? " Also in the conversation of the girls Sandy , 
Jenny and Monica , delete the portion beginning with Sandy s remarks " Miss Brodie s legs are longer than Mr. 

Lowther s, " upto “ We will have to watch Miss Brodie s stomach " . - 19 .66 m . 
Reel III- Delete the shot of Lloyd showing a nude male portrait on the easel.-. - 3 . 43 m . 
Reel IX - Delete the shots showing : 

(i) Sandy lying on a couch posing as nude. 
( ii ) Her full bare back while she stands nude before she puts on a blue sweater. 
Thereafter, reduce the love scene when Lloyd is kissing her bare back , shoulders and bosoms. - 28 .67 m . 

(Length retained - 3 - 35 m ). 
Length of deletions - 51 . 76 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be - 3148 -64 m . 


1750 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[PART III - SEC : 


- 


W 


n 


AR 


- 


- 


- 


NA 


UCUN 


1 


2 


5 


6 


B / 57644 


" The Rain People " 2781 30 ( 11) Warner Bros. Seyen Ron Colby , Bart Pat 2624 
(Col. ) (English ) 

Arts ( F . E . ) Inc., Eros ton ( U . S .A .) . 
(35 mm ) (U . S . A .). Bldg., Churchgate, 

17 - 10 -69 
Bombay . 

ENDORSEMENTS 

ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 
B /57626 . 
Film - " Ittefaq ” (Col.) (Hindi). 
U - 59265 dt. 4 - 10 -69 . 

Reel XII - Added approved commentary . (Sound only ). 
Actual Length of the film after the aforesaid alterations remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th October 1969 . 
B /56996 . 
Film - “ Nandayala Jate " (Marathi) . 
U -57720 dt 2 - 7 - 1969. 
Added 

Reel - Folk Dance - - 235 .00 m . 
Reel XHLavani Dance - - 274 - 32 m . 
Reel XII – Lavani Dance — 74 .68 m . 
Length of additions — 584 .00 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be - 3936 .80 m . 
The certificate was endorsed on 15th October 1969 . 

VERSIONS 
B /57906 . 
Film - " Hayes Jones : One Man Series" (English ). 
U -56370 dt. 13 - 2 - 1969 . 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film 
remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th October 1969 . 
B /57918 . 
Film ~ " Keep Pimples Away, The Clearail Way . ” (Col.) (English ). 
U - 59254 , dt. 3 - 10 - 1969, 

The certificate is valid also for the Marathi, Tamil , Assamese , Kannada & Malayalam versions of the film , in 
colour . The length of the film remains unaffected . 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th October 1969 . 
B /57908 . 
Film The Wyeth Phenomenon " ( Col.). 
U - 52588 dt , 30 - 12 - 1967. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th October 1969 . 
B /57917 . 
Film ~ " A Problem Of The Fun Fllled Years ” (Col.) (English ). 
U -59253 dt., 3 - 10 - 1969. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film in colour . The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 14th October 1969 . 


CORRECTION 
B /57697 . 
Film - " Samay Bada Balwan ” (Hindustani). 
U -58343, dt. 19- 9- 1969 . 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 3988 .92 metres instead of 4150 metres state 
earlier . The number of reels remain same. 

The certificate was endorsed on 16th October 1969. 
B /57951 . 
Film - " Look Young " (Col.) (English ). 
U - 59220 , dt. 25 - 9 - 1969. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi, Assamese & Bengali versions of the film in colour . The length of the 
film remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 16th October 1969 . 
B / 57955 . 
Film – " Dandi Yatra ” (Hindi). 
U -59247, dt 30 - 9- 1969 . 

The certificate is valid also for the English , Marathi, Gujarati , Bengali, Tamil, Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam , 
Oriya versions. The length of the film remains unaffected . 
The certificate was endorsed on 16th October 1969 . 


PART III - SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1751 


L 


. 


NA 


W 


ALVALLAVAL 


1 


2 


3 


CALCUTTA 


C /6408 


58432 


Chikmik Bijoli 
(Assamese ) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ). 


4767 .99 (17 ) Rajshri Productions, Shri Tarach and Bar 

3, Sooterkin Street, jatya & Dr. Bhupen 
Calcutta - 13 . 

Hazarika . C /o Raj 
shri Productions, 3, 
Sooterkin Street, Cal 
cutta - 13 . 


14 - 10 - 69 


U 
58433 


C /6416 


Mahishasur Mardiņi 
(Bengali ) (35 mm ) 
( India ). 


4071 21( 16 ) Chandan -Ashis Pro - Chandan -Ashis Pro - 

ductions, 26 , Hindus - ductions, 26 , Hindus 
than Park , Calcutta - than Park , Calcutta - 

29 . 


15 - 10 -69 


29 . 


U 


C /6412 


C /6417 - 18 


Shine 65 (Bengali, 30 .48( 1) Cinematographic Pub - Cinematographic Pub 58434 
Hindi & Oriya ) 

licity Service , 11, licity Service, 11, 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 

Amita Ghose Road , Amita Ghose Road , 15 - 10 -69 
Calcutta - 29 . 

Calcutta -29 . 
Endorsement: 
This certificate is valid also for the Assamese version of the film . 

U 
Ekti Satya Ghatapa 38 . 57 ( 1 ) Filmlet Advertising, Asok Bagchi & Aloke 58435 
(Bengali & Hindi) 

109, Bidhan Sarani, N , Bagchi, 109 , Bi- - 
(35 mm ) (India ). 

Calcutta - 4 . 

dhan Sarani, Calcutta 16 -10 -69 

- 4 . 
Endorsement: 
The title of the film in Hindi version is " Ek SaachiKahani" . 

MADRAS 
Trailer of Panappei 121 01 (1 ) Viswasanthi Pictures, Viswasanthi Pictures , 57374 With triangle mark . 
gal ( Tamil ) ( 35 mm ) 

Usman Road , Madrąs - Usman Rd. , Madras 
(B . & W .) ( India ). 

17 . 

13 - 10 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 57374- U dated 13th October 1969 - issued to the film Trailer of Panappeigal (Tamil ) 

( 35 mm .) (B . & W .) 
Length as in the application - 121 . 92 Metres. 
Cut 

Metres 
Delete the shots of the shaking of the breasts and standing between the legs ofmen . 0 . 91 
Actual length of the trailer after the above cut, will be 121 01 Metres in one Reel. 

U 
Trailer of Jigri Dost 126 .48 ( 1 ) Vijayalakshmi Pictur - S /Shri Sunderlal Naha 57375 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

es, 22 , Vaidyarama ta & P . Dhoondy, 
(35 mm ) ( India ). Iyer St., Madras - 17 . Madras - 17 . 

13 - 10 -69 


M /5758 


17 . 


M /5757 


mhines. Sri Vittal ,Lo Street, - 


M /5729 


Aggi Veerudu (Telu - 4266 - 43 ( 15 ) Sri Vittal Combines, Sri Vittal Combines , 57376 With triangle mark. 
gy ) ( 35 mm ) ( B . & W .) 

G . Koil Street, Ma G . Koil Street, – 
dras - 7 . Madras- 7 . 

14 - 10 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 57376 - U dated 14- 10 - 1969 issued to the film Aggi Veerudu " ( Telugu ) 35 mm . B . & W . 
Length as in the application - - 4268 -41 Metres . 


( India ). 


1069 


Metres 


3 .04 


3 .64 
0 .60 


0 .91 


1 :52 


1 . Reel 4 - Delete the shot where four men catch the girls by the middle of their 

legs and shake them . (Replacement of 3 .04 Mts . approved ) . . 
2 . Reel 4 - Delete the shot where six girls lie on their backs and shake their legs and 

hips upwards in a suggestive manner . (Replacement of 3 .64 Metres 

approved ) 
3 . Reel 4 – Delete the words by the dancer “ Mundhu Maa Aakali Theeruchu " . 
4 . Reel 8 - Delete the shot where Prasuna and Shasanka dance and where Sasanka 

holds her in his hands and moves forward with a very near kissing ges 

ture . ( Replacement of 0 . 91 metres approved ) . . . 
5 . Reel 9 — Delete shots of girls jerking their busts facing each other , (Replacement 

of 1 •52 Metres approved ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
6 . Reel 10 – In the dance sequence with the song beginning “ Yevaro . . . . , delete the 

shots where the chins of Yasoyardana and Prasuna come close together 

and they hug each other. (Replacement of 1 .05 Metres approved ) 
7. Reel 11 – In the dream sequence of Padmavati , delete the shots where the Prince is 

lying on her side , while she is on the pedestal. (Replacement of 2 . 74 

Metres approved 
8. Reel 12 --- Delete the dialogue of Hemaa addressed to ihe disciples of the Mantrika 
“ Mee Ishtam Occhinatlu Chedurugani” 

. . . . . . . . 

Total cuts . . .. 
Actual length of the film after the cuts and replacements willbe 4266 .43 Metres in 15 Reels . 


1 . 98 


2 . 74 


0 . 45 


14 .88 


1752 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


[Part III -- Sec . 4 


CN 


U 


M / 5747 


‘ Panappeigal ( Tamil) 3992 :31 (17) Viswasanthi Pic - Viswasanthi Pic - 57377 With triangle mark , 
( 35 mm .) (B & W .) 

tures, Usman Rd., tures, Usman Rd., 
(India . ) 

Madras- 17 . Madras- 17 . 

15 - 10 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 57377-U dated 15th October 1969 — issued to the film “Panappeigal (Tamil). 
Length as in the application . - 3995 .69 Metres . 


Metres 


0 .75 


0 .75 


Cuts 
1. Reel 3 -- - Reduce the duration of the shots where Neela is hugged by Venukanth 

when she wears white slacks and jacket 
2 . Reel 4 - Delete the shots in the dance performed in the hotel, of bust shaking by 

one girl, and later by six girls in three pairs shaking . 
3 . Reel 5 ----Delete the dialogue where the leader of the gang gives orders to 

001, 002 , 003, 004 and 005 to burn the huts, destroy railways , incite 
workmen , circulate fake currency notes and kill the police personnel, 

with a view to create unrest in the country . (Sound only ) 
Reel 6 - Delete the shots in the dance in the tower where the girl shakes her bottom 

and also the shot where the male in white pants crosses ,his legs with the 

female shaking her bottom . . . . . . . . . . . 
5 . Reel 8 - Delete the shots showing Neela and Venukanth in near kiss , with chins 

together , and back pressing of the bottoms of the hero and heroine 
6 . Reel 12 - Delete the shot in the dance where the person dressed as a Sheik , shakes his 

bottom when he is back to back with the girl dressed in frock 


0 .91 


0 .60 


0 .30 
3 . 31 


Total cuts 


... 


... 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be 3992 · 31 Metres in 17 Reels . 


U 


M / 5760 


Kerala Dinesh Beedi 

(Malayalam ) 
(Eastmancolour ) 
(35 mm .) ( India ). 


42 67( 1 ) Film Line Corpora - Film Line Corpora - 

tion , Trivandrum . tion , Trivandrum . 


57378 


16 - 10 -69 


U 
57379 


M / 5755 


300 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Institute of Film 

Technology , Madras. 


Institute of Film 

Technology , Madras. - 


Gandhiyadikal Kattiya 

Vazhiyil ( Tamil) 
( 35 mm . ) ( B & W .) 
(India ). 


16 - 10 -69 


U 


M / 5754 


57380 


"Mayor Muttanna 

(Kannada ) ( 35 mm .) 
( B & W .) ( India ). 


4760 . 37 (18 ) Dwaraka Films, Dwaraka Films, 

Muthiah Mudali Muthiah Mudali 
St., Madras - 5 . 

St., Madras - 5 . 


16 - 10 -69 


M / 5750 


" Veeravaal ( Tamil) 4397 .95 ( 17 ) Siva Preethi Pic- Siva Preethi Pic - 57381 With triangle mark , 
( 35 mm .) (B & W . ) 

tures , 21 , Arcot tures , 21 . Arcote 
( India ). 

Mudali St., Madras- 17 , Mudali St ., Madras -17, 17 - 10 -69 
Endorsement on certificate No. 57381-U dated 17th October 1999 issued to Veerayaal ( Tamil) (35mm .) (B & W .) 
Lengtk as in the application .---4397 .95 Metreș . 
Cuts 

Metres 
1 . Reel 7 –– Delete the dialogue of Vathsala to her lover Thottu Parthaya . (Sound 

only ) . 
2 . Reel 7 - Delete the dialogues of Madhavi “ Vayaru irukkira nilayai partha moonu ore 

vakile vandhudum pola irukke . (Sound only ) . 
3 . Reel 10 - Delete the dialogues of Vathsala ‘ Enakke Katti anaikka thondruthe, pinne 

avar summa vuduvara . (Sound only . ) 
Actual length of the film therefore remains the same, namely 4397 . 95 Metres in 17 Reels. 

U 
“ Future is under Con - 152 .40 ( 1) Bharat Electronics Ferranti Ltd . , 

57382 
trol (English ) 

Ltd ., Macias. 

U . K . 
(16 mm ) (Colour) (U .K .) 

17 - 10 -69 


M /5751 


U 


M / 5752 


“ The Digiturn Revo 

lution . (English ) 


121 .92 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


57383 


(16 mm )( Colour )(U.K.) 


17 - 10 -69 


U 


M / 5753 


91 44 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


57384 


“ The Ferranti Way 

(English ) (16 mm ) 
(Colour) (U . K .) 


M /5763 


Trailer of Veerayaal 

( Tamil) (35 mm ) 
(B & W .) ( India ). 


17 - 10 -69 

U 
91 .44 ( 1) Siva Preethi Pictures, Siva Preethi Pic - 57385 

21 . Arcot Mudali tures , 21, Arcot - - 
St., Madras - 17 . 

Mudáli St., Madras-17 , 18 - 10 -69 


PART III - Sec. 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 ( KARTIKA 2, 1892 ) 


1753 


thew 


3 


6 


7 


M / 5759 


Sepoy Chinniah 4796 . 32 (17 ) Suresh Movies, Suresh Movies , 57386 With triangle mark . 
(Telugu ) (Partly 

2 & 3 , Arcot Rd., 2 & 3 , Arcot Rd., — 
coloured ) ( 35 mm ) 

Madras-26 . Madras - 26 . 

18 - 10 -69 
(India .) 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 57386 - U dated 18- 10-69 issued to the film “Sepoy Chinniah (Telugu ) (Parlty coloured ). 
Length as in the application .- - 4796 .32 Metres. 
Cuts 

Metres 
Reel 4 (a ) Delete the reference to Bharathi " My name is Dokka Seethamma” ; ( ii ) 

Delete the reference by Kannamma to Chinniaħ “ Nameetha padi” . (Sound only ). 
Actual length of the film is therefore the same, 4796 . 32 Metres in 17 Reels . 
Black & White portion of the picture is 3845 .95 Metres, and Colour portion of the picture is 950 . 37 Metres (Total 

4796 -32 Metres in 17 Reels ). 


M /5719 


‘ Nam Naadu (Tamil ) 5119 .49(20) Vijaya International, Shri B . Nagi Reddi , 57387 With triangle mark . 
(35 mm ) (East 

Arcot Rd., Madras- 26 Vijaya International, -- - - 
mancolour ) (India ). 

Madras- 26 . 

18 - 10 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 57387 - U dated 18th October 1969 issued to the film Nam Naadu ( Tamil) ( 35 mm .) 

(Eastmancolour ). 
Length as in the application . - 5124 .59 Metres . 
Cuts 

Metres 
1 . Reel 1 -- Delete the shots showing the strangling of Velayuthan by the three sticks. 2 .43 
2. Reel 12 – - Delete the reference to “ 20 years experience ” . (Sound only _ replace . 

ment approved ). . . 
3 . Reel 14 - Reduce the duration of the shots showing the bleeding when Dorai is beaten 

1 . 52 
4 . Reel 17 - Delete the shots showing the hip swinging when the girls dance in a circle 
with the guests seated on the table . 

1 . 21 
Total cuts . . 

5 . 16 


ON NIS nean . 


. . 


Actual length of the film after the cuts is 5119 .49 Metres in 20 Reels . 
Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 25th October , 1969. 


BOMBAY 


U 


B / 57975 


“ Nandini" (Marathi) 

(35 mm .) ( India) . 


3779 .52 (13) B . N . Kulkarni, 

2 / 23 Khandake 
Bldg . N . C . Kelkar 
Rd., Dadar, Bombay 


B . N . Kulkarni, 
Bombay - 28 . 


59328 


20 - 10 - 69 


28 . 


U 


B / 56643 


A Warren Miller 

Production ( U . S . A .). 


59329 


With triangle mark . 


“ Ski On The Wild 
Side " 

(Wide 
screen ) (Col.) 
(English ) ( 35mm .) 
( U . S . A .) . 


2847 - 75 (12 ) Metro Goldwyn - 

Mayer India Ltd ., 
Metro House , M .G . 
Road ., Bombay - 1 . 


21- 10 -69 


Endorsement 
Original length - 2906 -57m . 
Reel 9 (5A ) Delete the words “ A Russian super service gas station " , and the shot showing of 

filling up of dirty water in the radiator . 
Delete the following commentary with reference to Russian villages and the scene of the 
rugged street :- " There are thousands of villages just like this one in Russia . You will 
find no electricity here . . . . no television . Just an occasional crank telephone." 
Delete the satirical remakrs “ The people here work very, very hard " and the shot showing 
Russian woman driving a single cow . 
Remove the reference to Russian Hilton and the words “ There is no slope maintenance 
here . . . . . No trees cut down . . . .. No rocks removed . . . . . No snow packed . . . . . ļ 58 .82m . 
Russian double chairlift " and the shot of a man sitting inside the rope -way car and another 
one hanging below . 
Delete the picturization and the following words :- “ This is the Russian Ski Patrol. . . . 
Next year they get skis " . 
Delete the following underlined narration : - “ But their technique is about five years behind 
the rest of the skiing world . The reason for that is all the Russians have learned their 
skiing from motion pictures. In the west it takes five years to produce a film , exhibit it , 
and finally export it back to Russia ." 
Delete the sentences " In between each event they would transfer the bindings from one 
pair of skis to the next.” “ Who cares ? This guy s mother probably cares ” . “ And joined 
Dr. Zhivago " . 


- 


- 


1754 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[PART III - SEC. 4 


LUVAL 


1 


B / 57643 


Delete the words “ Marshal Tito was there . . . .. He wore an Italian hat, a French over 
coat , was using a German camera with Japanese lenses and English film which he bought 
with American money ” . “ And these are the Yugoslavians . . . . . Where twenty five cents 
an hour is a very high wage ." 
Total length of deletions — 58 -82m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 2847 .75m . 

U 
“ The Learning Tree" 2917 -53 (12 ) Warner Bros . Seven Gordon Parks , 59330 With triangle mark . 
( Panavision ) (Col. ) 

Arts ( F . E .) Inc . Eros (U . S . A .). 
(English ). Bldg . Churchgate , 

21- 10 -69 
Bombay - 1 . 
Endorsement : 
Original length : 2931m . 
Reel IV - Delete the views of a woman lying without clothes with a man across a bed while the maid - servant holds the 

door ajar. – 13 ·47m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be :- - 2917 .53m . 


B / 57792 


Parks , 


59331 With triangle mark . 


Trailer of " The Learn 
ing Tree " (Col.) 
(English ) (35 mm ) 
(USA ).i 


103 .84 ( 1 ) Warner Bros. Seven Gordon 

Arts ( F .E .) Inc . Eros (U . S . A .). 
Bldg . Churchgate , 
Bombay - 1. 


21 - 10 -69 


Endorsement : 
Original length : 109 . 42m . 
Delete the shot showing a woman lying without clothes with a man across a bed while the maid - servant holds the 

door ajar. - 5 .58m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : — 103 •84m . 


U 


B /57930 


59332 


“ Swastha Danton Ka 
Rahasya " (Colour) 
(Hindi) (35 mm ) 
(India ) . 


30 .00 (1) Zul Vellani, 2 /45 , Zul Vellani, Bombay 

Tardeo Air Condition 34 . 
Market, Tardeo Main 
Road , Bombay -34 . 


21 - 10 -69 


B /57931 


30 .00(1) 


Do . 


Do . 


59333 


“ Stop Bad Breath " 
(Colour) (English ) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


21 - 10 -69 


B / 57929 


30 . 00 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


59334 


" Danton Ki Suraksha " 
(Colour) (Hindi) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


21- 10 -69 


U 


30 . 00 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


B /57933- 36 “ Colgate Danton Ka 

Sahayak " (Colour) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


59335 Valid for Hindi, 

Gujarati, Marathi, 
21- 10 -69 Bengali versions 


U 


B /58078 - 79 


“ Settle For Mettle " 
(Colour ) (35 mm ) 
( India ). 


29 .87 ( 1) Trio Films, Jyoti Stu - Trio Films, Bombay -7. 

dios , Kennedy Bridge , 
Bombay -7 . 


B /58063 - 70 


29 -87 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


“ Nice To Be Near " 
( Trioscope ) ( Colour) 
(35mm ) (India ) . 


59336 Valid for English 

& Hindi versions . 
21 - 10 -69 

U 
59337 Valid for English , 

Hindi Bengali, Ta . 
21 - 10 - 69 mil , Telugu , Kan 

nada & Malayalam 
versions. 


B /58071- 77 


29 .87 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


" A Touch of Luxury ” 
(Colour) (35 mm ) 
( India ) . 


59338 

- 
21 - 10 -69 


Valid for English , 
Hindi, Bengali , Ta 
mil , Telugu , Kan 
nada & Malayalam 
versions. 


B / 57979 


59339 


“ Mistair ” ( Col.) ( Eng 
lish ) ( 35mm ) (India ) . 


30 . 48 ( 1) Durga Khote Produc - Durga Khote Produc 

tions, India House , tions, Bombay - 1 . 
First floor, Fort St. 
Bombay- 1 . 


21- 10 -69 


Do. 


29 -87 (1) 


U 
59340 


B / 57980 


Do . 


- 


“ Things Go Better " 

(Colour ) (English ) 
( 35 mm ) (India ) . 


21 - 10 -69 

U 
59341 


B /57981 


29 .87 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


“ A Bottle of Fun " 
(Colour) (English ) 
( 35 mm ) (India ). 


21- 10 -69 


1755 


PART III — Sec . 41 

I 


- 


2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 
3 4 

5 6 


3 


4 


7 


B /58084 


U 
59342 


224 


Ltd . 


“ Sukhi Kisan " 
(Hindi) ( 16 
(India ). 


mm ) 


Ama Private Ltd . Ama Private 
Canada Bldg . Hornby Bombay- 1 . 
Rd . Dr. D . N . Rd . 
Bombay - 1 . 


21 - 10 - 69 


U 


B /57966 -67 “ Your Choice ( Col.) : 

(Hindi) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


30 .48 ( 1 ) H . H , Jagwani, Adver - H . H . Jagwani, Adver 

tising Films, Jyoti tising Films, Bom 
Studios Compound, bay -7 . 
Kennedy Bridge , 
Bombay - 7 . 


59343 
21- 10 - 69 


B /57969 


30 .48 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


59344 


“ Kohinoor Kala Dant 
Manjan " (Colour ) 
(Hindi) (35 mm ) 
( India ). 


21 - 10 -69 


B /57968 


30 .48 (1) 


Do. 


“ Lambe Ghane Bal" 
(Colour ) (Hindi) 
(35 mm ) (India ) . 


Do. 


Do . 


59345 


21- 10 -69 

U 
59346 


B / 57970 


30 .48 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


" Tazgi Aur Mauj” 
( Colour ) (Hindi) 
( 35 mm ) (India ) . 


21 - 10 -69 

U 
59347 


B / 57803 


Trailer of " Alfred The 
Great" (Cinema 
scope) (Col.) (Eng 
lish ) (35 mm ) (U .S . A .). 


89 .00 ( 1 ) Metro Goldwyn Mayer Metro Goldwyn Ma 

India Ltd . Metro yer, ( U . S . A . ). 
House , M .G . Road 
Bombay - 1 . 


22 -10 -69 


U 


B /58083 


" The Dynamics of The 
Circle ” (English ) 
( 16 mm ) (U . S .A .). 


153 .61 ( 1) National Education & Mc Graw Hill Book 

Information Films Co . ( U . S . A .) . 
Ltd . National House , 
Tulloch Road Bom 
bay - 1, 


59348 
22 -10 -69 


B /58082 


153 .61( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


59349 


" The Meaning of 
Area " (English ) 
( 16 mm ) ( U . S .A .) . 


22- 10 -69 

U 
59350 


B /58080 


90 .00 (1 ) 


Do . 


“ American On The 
Moon ” (English ) 
(16 mm ) (U . S . A . ). 


Do. 


Castle Films, (U .S.A .). 


B /57774 


22 -10 -69 

U 
59351 


90 . 00 ( 1 ) 


90-00(1) 


Do . 


" Polar Pests" (Col.) 
(English ) (16 mm ) 
(U . S.A .). 


DO. 


Do . 


22 - 10 -69 


U 
59352 


B /58093 - 94. “ Mahitichitra No . 

113" (35 mm ) ( India ). 


249. 94 (1 ) 


Director of Informa- Director of Informa 
tion , Govt. of Guja - tion , Govt. of Guja 
rat, Sachivalya , rat, Sachivalya , 
Ahmedabad - 15 . Ahmedabad- 15 . 


Valid for Gujarati , 
& Hindi versions. 


22 - 10 -69 


U 


B / 58085 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1098 ” (35 mm ) 
(India ) . 


167 .00 (1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India . 24 , Peddar of India , Bombay . 
Road , Bombay . 


Valid for 14 ver 
sions. 


59353 

- 
22 - 10 -69 

U 
59354 
23 -10 -69 


B /57816 


Trailer of “ Footprints 
On The Moon Apollo 
11 ” (Widescreen ) 
(Col) (English ) 
(35 mm ) (U . S. A .). 


65 .83(1 ) 20th Century Fox Barry Coe, (U . S .A . ). 

Corp . ( 1 ) Pvt. Ltd . 
Metro , House , M . G . 
Road Bombay . 


B /58086 


“ Happy 
(Colour) 
(India ) . 


Wedding" . 
(35 mm ) 


92 .05 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India 24 , Peddar of India , Bombay , 
Road , Bombay . 


U 
59355 Valid for 14 ver 

- - sions. 
23 - 10 -69 

U 
59356 


B /57632 


“ Another Kick ” ( Col.) 
( English ) (16 mm ) 
( U . S .S . R .). 


1045 ( 9 ) U .S . S. R . Consulate Lenfilm Studio , ( U .S . 

General, 42, Nepean S .R . ). 
Sea Road , Bombay . 


23- 10 -69 

U 
59357 


B /57932 


Bom - 


“ Oru Rahasyam ** 

(Colour ) ( Tamil) 
( 35 mm ) ( India ). 


30 .00 (1 ) Zul Vellani, 2/45, Tar - Zul Vellani, 

deo Air Conditioned bay - 34 . 
Market , Tardeo Main 
Road , Bombay - 34 . 


23 - 10 -69 


M299G1/7049 


1756 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


[PART III - SEC . 4 


. . 


2 


M 


U 
B /57937-40 “ Arogya Margan " 30 .00 (1) Zul Vallani, 2/45, Tar- Zul Vallani, Bom - 59358 Valid for Tamil , 
( 35 mm ) ( India ). deo Air Conditioned bay - 34 . 

- Telugu , Kannada & 
Market, Tardeo Ma n 

23 - 10 -69 Malayalam ver 
Road , Bombay - 34 . 

sions. 

U 
B /57242 “ Piya Ka Ghar ” 1484 .43(6 ) Film Institute of India , Film Institute of India , 59359 With triangle mark . 
(Hindi) ( 35 mm ) 

Law College Road , Poona -4 . 
(India ). Poona - 4 . 

24 - 10- 69 
Endorsement 

Original length ; 1489 m . 
Reel II -- Delete Bhabhi s underlined words as spoken to her brother- in - law in the presence of his bride " Palang purana 

bai, Awaz karta hai, zara dhyan se " . - 4 . 57m . 


Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will bem- 1484 .43m . 


B /57628 


1122 (10 ) 


Studio , 


U 
59360 


Aaiche Antahkaran ” 
(Mother s Heart) 
(Maratbi) ( 16 mm ) 
(U . S .S . R .) , 


U .S. S .R . Consulate Gorky Film 
General, 42 Nepean (U .S . S . R .) . 
Sea Road , Bombay . 


25 - 10 -69 


U 
59361 


B / 57903 


4367 14 ( 17 ) 


Beti" (Col.) (Hindus- 
tani) ( 35 mm ) ( India ). 


K . P . S . Films, 3 /6th Air 
Conditioned Market , 
Tardeo , Bombay - 34 . 


K . P . S . Films, Bom 
bay - 34 . 


25- 10 -69 


B /57978 


59362 


Trailer of " Apna 
Khoon Apna Dush 
man " ( Hindi) (35 mm ) 
( India ). 


85 . 34 (1 ) Rainbow Films, 139 Rainbow Films, Bom 

Famous Cine Bldg. bay - 11 . 
Mahalaxmi, Hains, 
Road , Bombay - 11 . 


25 - 10 -69 


U 


B / 58087 


59363 


Genteel Care " (Col.) 
(English ) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


29 . 88 (1 ) Santos Film Corpora - Santos Film Corpora . 

tion , Havbai Mansion tion , Bombay - 1. 
3rd floor 14 , Shahid 
Bhagatsing Rd. Opp . 
Old Custom House , 
Bombay - 1. 


25 -10 -69 


ENDORSEMENTS 


VERSIONS 
B /55628 
Film : “ Behind The Scenes" (English ). 
U -57057 dt. 23-4 -69 
The certificate is valid also for the Bengali version of the film . The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 22nd October 1969, 


CORRECTION 
B /57846 
Film : " The Small Man " (Col.) (English ). 
U -59291 dt. 8- 10 -69 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 30 .48 metres instead of 29 .87 metres. 
The certificate was endorsed on 22nd October 1969 . 
B /42437 
Film : “ View & Teach - Bringing in the Outside World ” (English ) ( 16 mm ). 
U -43787 dt. 20 -1 -65 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 metres instead of 152 -4 metres . The number 

of reels remains unaffected at two . 
The certificate was endorsed on 25th October 1969. 
B /42438 
Film : “ View & Teach - Tunes of Eng . Speech ” 
U -43788 dt. 20 - 1 -65 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 metres instead of 152 . 4 metres. The number 

of reels remains unaffected at two . 
The certificate was endorsed on 25th October 1969. 


PART III - SEĆ. 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892 ) 


1757 


mm 


3 


4 . 


CALCUTTA 


C /6411 


58436 


Flash Film No. 1 
( English ) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ). 


30 .48 ( 1 ) Kalakunj, 43 , Bepin Kalakunj, 43, Bepin 

Behari Ganguly Behari Ganguly 
Street , Calcutta -12 . Street , Calcutta - 12 . 


25 - 10 - 69 

U 
58437 


C /6298 


LesMorutiers ( Colour) 
( French ) ( 16 mm ) 
( France ) . 


189 ( 1) Cultural Counsellor, Regie Francaise Du 

French Embassy , Cinema, France . 
New Delhi, 


25 - 10 -69 

U 
58438 


C /6299 


185 (1) 


Do. 


Derriere La Fenetre 
( Colour) (French ) 
( 16 mm ) (France ). 


Les Films Armorial, 
France. 


25 - 10 -69 


C /6300 


133 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do. 


58439 


Pasterale Du XXeme 
Siecic ( Col.) (French ) 
(16 mm ) ( France ) . 


25 - 10 -69 

U 
58440 


C /6301 


102 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do. 


Films, 


Les Annees 25 (Col. ) 
(French ) (16 mm ) 
(France ). 


Cythere 
France . 


25 - 10 -69 


MADRAS 


M /5749 


M / 5756 


"Nadhi (Malayalam ) 3673 - 14 ( 15 ) Supriya Pictures, 2, Supriya Pictures , 2, 57388 
(Eastmancolour) (35 

Maharaja Surya Rao Maharaja Surya Rao 
mm ) (India ). Road , Madras- 18 . Road , Madras- 18 . 21 - 10 -69 

U 
* Chaduranga (Kan - 4747 . 26 ( 17) Shri N . G . Ahmed , Mahalakshmi Films, 57389 With triangle mark . 
nada ) ( 35 mm ) 

No . 3, Hary s Road , No. 3 , Hary s Road , 
(B . & W .) ( India ). 

Bangalore - 1 . Bangalore -1 . 

24 - 10 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No . 57389-U , dated 24 -10- 69 issued to the film Chaduranga (Kannada ) 35 mm . 

B . & W . 
Length as in the application. - 4747 . 26 metres. 
Cuts 

Metres 
1 . Reel 7 -- Delete the following shots: - (a ) Hip swinging by the two girls in 
black dress with brassier (Approved replacement 2 - 74 ) 

2 .74 
(b ) The dancing girl standing on the top of the table and gradually 
widening both her legs apart . (Approved replacement 1 .52 ) . . 1 .52 

Total cuts 

. . . . 4 . 26 
Actual length of the film , therefore , remains the same, namely 4747 .26 metres in 17 Reels . 
Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week - ending 

1 November 1969 . 


BOMBAY 


U 


B /58103 


e 


" Lacto Calamine " 

( Hindi ) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ). 


B /57613 


“ Salah ” (Hindi) (35 

mm ) (India ). 


30 .48 ( 1 ) Varsha Films Com - Anand, Bombay- 1 . 59364 

mercial, Dayer House , 
199 , D . N . Road , 

27 - 10 - 69 
Bombay- 1 . 

U 
25 . 90 ( 1 ) National Advertising Jyoti G . Thakur, 59365 

Service Pvt. Ltd ., 47 , Lax .ni Insurance 
National House , Tul- Bldg . , Sir P . M . Road , 29 - 10 -69 
loch Road , Bombay . Bombay- 1 . 

U 
288 . 04 ( 1) Dhirendra Pandey , Sir Bhagwati Saran 59366 

Films Officer , Singh , Director of 
Director of Informa Information , Govt. 29 - 10 - 69 
tion , Govt. of U . P ., of U . P ., Lucknow : 
Lucknow . 

UT 
15 . 85 (1) Macmillan & Co . Ltd ., ICEM London , U .K . 59367 

276 , Hornby Road , 
Bombay. 

29- 10 -69 


B / 57469 


“ Wall Less Prison " 

( English ) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ). 


B /58021 


“ The Convection Of 

Water " (Colour ) ( Si 
lent) (8 mm ) (U . K .) . 


B / 58008 


“ Cell Division ” ( Silent) 

(8 mm ) (U . K .). 


10 .06 (1 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


59368 


29- 10 -69 


B /57626 


968 ( 1) 


Studio 


59369 


" Maa Di Wafadari ” 

(Mother s Devotion ) 
(Punjabi) ( 16 mm ) 
(U . S . S. R .) . 


U . S .S .R . Consulate Gorky Film 
General, 42 , Nepean U . S .S . R . 
Sea Road , Bombay . 


29 - 10 -69 


An 


1758 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


[PART III:- SEC . 


M 


U 


B /58109 


Trailer of " African 67 . 66 (1) Universal Pictures Ronald E . Shanin , 59370 With triangle mark . 
Safari" ( Colour ) 

India Pvt. Ltd ., Metro U . S . A . 
( English ) (35 mm ) House , M . G . Road , 

29 - 10 -69 
(U .S.A . ). 

Bombay. 
Endorsement 

Original length : 68 . 88 m . 
Delete the opening close shots showing African women with bare breasts coming along in a line . - --1 22 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be. 67 .66 m . 


B / 58119 


" Diamonds And Glass " 

(Colour ) ( English ) 
( 16 mm ) ( U . K . ) . 


U 
59371 


219 ( 2 ) LPE Aiyars Pvt. Ltd ., Industrial Diamond In - 

7th Floor , Nirmal, formation Bureau , 
Nariman Point, U . K . 
Bombay - 1 . 


29 - 10 -69 


U 


B / 58123 


132 (2 ) 


132(2) 


Do . 


“ Diamonds And The 

Stone Industry " (Co 
lour ) (English ) ( 16 
mm ) ( U .K . ). 


DO 


Do. 


59372 


29 - 10 -69 


B /58122 


121 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do , 


59373 


" Diamonds In Metal 

Working " (Colour ) 
( English ) ( 16 n .m ) 
( U . K . ) . 


29- 10 -69 


B / 57985 


U 


59374 


" Heat Distribution In 

The Spectrum Of A 
Carbon Arc " ( Silent) 
(Colour ) (8 mm ) 
( U . K .) . 


13 . 11 ( 1) Macmillan & Co . Ltd ., ICEM , London , U . K . 

276 , Hornby Road , 
Bombay . 


29- 10 -69 


B / 58120 


" Diamonds And Cera . 
mics" (Colour ) (Eng 
lish ) ( 16 mm ) ( U . K .). 


U 
59375 


154 (2 ) LPE Aiyars Pvt. Ltd . , IndustrialDiamond In - 

7th Floor, Nirmal, formation Bureau , 
Nariman Point , U . K . 
Bombay- 1 . 


29 - 10 -69 


U 


B /58121 


121 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


59376 


29- 10 -69 


" Diamond And Con 

crete " ( Colour ) 
( English ) ( 16 mm ) 

( U . K .) . 
“ Meet The Champion ” 

(Colour ) (35 mm ) 
( India ) . 


B / 58095 - 


U 


59377 


100 


30 .00 ( 1 ) Kalp , B - 1 , Block No. 2 , Kalp , Bombay -28 , 

Samruddhi Housing 
Society , Bhavani 
sbankar Road Cross 
Lane , Dadar , pom 
bay - 28 . 


29 - 10 -69 


Valid for English , 
Hindi, Bengali , 
Tamil , Telugu & 
Malayalam ver 
sions . 


B /58127 


" Indian News Review 

No . 1099 " (35 mm ) 
( India ). 


192 . 93 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 , Peddar of India , Bombay . 
Road, Bombay. 


Valid for 14 ver 

sions. 


U 
59378 

- 
29 - 10 -69 

U 
59379 


B / 58128 


1310 -64 (5 ) 


" Munna " (Partly in 

Colour) (Hindi) (35 
mm ) (India ) . 


Children s Film So - Children s Film So 

ciety, Hingorani ciety , Bombay - 18 . 
House , Dr. Annie 
Besant Road, Worli, 
Bombay - 18 . 


30 - 10 - 69 


B /58108 


U 


E . 


" African Safari" (Co- 

lour ) ( English ) 
(35 mm ) ( U .S .A .) . 


Shanin , 


59380 


2554 . 22 (11) Universal Pictures Ronald 

India P . Ltd ., Metro U . S . A . 
House, M .G . Road , 
Bombay - 1 . 


30 - 10 -69 


B /57977 


U 


2381 


Carreras, 


" Moon Zero Two " 

( Colour) ( English ) 
( 35 mm ) (London ). 


59381 


Warner Bros . Seven Michael 

Arts (F . E .) Inc . Eros London . 
Bldg ., Churchgate , 
Bombay . 


30 - 10 -69 


U 


B /57904 


101 · 50 ( 1) 


Do . 


Trailer of " The Rain 

People " ( Colour ) 
( English ) (35 mm ) 
( U .S . A .). 


Ron Colby , Bart Pat 

ton , U .S . A . 


59382 


30 - 10 -69 


B /58130 


" Help Generates Self 

help ” (English ) ( 35 
( 35 mm ) ( India ). 


U 
303 .28 ( 1) T . Janakiram , Summer T . Jankiram , Madras- 24 . 59383 
Garden , Madras -24 . 

1 - 11 -69 


BART III - SEC . 61 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


who 


1 


2 


3 


5 


6 


B /58104 


U 
59384 


30 


“ The Soap With A 

Difference." (Colour ) 
(English ) (35 mm ) 
( India ) . 


Visual Aid Publicity United Film Makers , 

India , 111, M .G . 311 - 12 , Himalaya 
Road , Bombay - 1 . House , Palton Road , 

Bombay . 


1 - 11- 69 


B /57973 


59385 


“ Of All The Lovely 

Hues Imaginable " 
(Colour) (English & 
Hindi) (35 mm ). 


30 - 00 (1 ) Indra Bijlani, United 

Film Makers, 311- 12 , 
Himalaya House , 
Palton Road , Bom 
bay- 1 . 


Indra Bijlani, United 

Film Makers , Bom 
bay - 1 . 


1 - 11 - 69 


U 


B / 58105 


59386 


“ T . W . A . Daily Flights 

Around The World " 
(Colour ) (English ) 
(35 mm ) ( U .S . A . ) . 


30 -48 (1 ) Grant Advertising Wells Rich Greene 

India , Lotus House , Inc ., U .S . A . 
Marine Lines , Bom 
bay - 1 . 


1 - 11-69 


U 


B /58149 


59387 


" Take A Sip Of The 

Sun " (Colour ) (Eng 
lish ) (35 mm ) (India ). 


29 .87 ( 1) Durga Khote Produc - Durga Khote Produc- 

tions, India House , tions, Bombay -1 . 
First floor, Fort 
Street , Bombay- 1 . 


1 - 11 - 69 


B /58125 


U 
39388 


“ Film Star Elke Som 
mer " (Colour) (Eng 
lish ) (35mm ) (India ). ) 


1 - 11-69 


27 .43 ( 1 ) Santos Film Corpora - Santos Film Corpora 

tion , Havabai Man - tion , Bombay- 1 . 
sion , 3rd floor , 14 , 
Shahid Bhagatsingh 
Road , Opp . Old Cus-, 
tom House, Bombay 
1 . 


B /58137 


3895 93 (14 ) 


59389 


" Hanuman Chalisa." 

( Hindi ) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ) . 


Basant Pictures , 136 , Basant 

Pictures, 
Chamarbagh Road, Bombay - 12 . 
Parel, Bombay -12 . 


1 - 11- 69 


U 


B /57947 


59390 


“ Operation St. Peter " 

(Colour ) (English ) 
( 35 mm ) ( Italy ) . 


2470 -56 (12) Paramount Films of Tuti Vasile , Italy , 

India Ltd ., Hague 
Bldg ., Sprott Road , 
Bombay - 1 . 


1 - 11 - 69 


U 


B / 57948 


59 .44 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


59391 


Trailer of " Operation 

St. Peter " (Colour ) 
( English ) (35 mm ) 
( Italy ). 


1 - 11-69 


B /58043 


" Starts ” (Silent (8 mm ) 

(U . K . ). 


U 
59392 


10 •06(1 ) Macmillan & Co . Ltd ., ICEM London , U . K . 

276 , Hornby Road , 
Bombay. 


1 -11-69 

U 
59393 


B /57997 


9 .45(1 ) 


" Critical Size" (Colour) 

( Silent) ( 8 mm ) 
(U . K .). 


1 - 11 -69 


U 


B /58016 


14 .33 (1 ) 


59394 


" Recreational Diving" 

(Silent) (8 mm ) 
(U . K .). 


1 - 11 -69 

U 
59395 


B / 58017 


15 .54(1) 


“ Basic Skills Of Sur 

vival Swimming " 
( Silent) (8 mm ) 
(U . K . ). 


1 - 11 -69 


B / 58039 


17. 98(1) 


U 
59396 


“ Survival Swimming 

Use Of Clothes " 
(Silent) (8 mm ) 
(U . K . ). 


1 - 11 -69 


B /58009 


7 .62 (1 ) 


U 
| 59397 


“ Division 

DNA 
(Silent) 
(U . K .) . 


Of The 
Molecule " 

(8 mm ) 


[ 1 - 11 -69 


B / 57998 


6 .71( 1) 


59398 


“ Chain Reaction " 

(Silent) (Colour) ( 8 
mm ) ( U . K . ), 


1 - 11-69 

U 
59399 


B / 58032 


3 . 90 ( 1) 


“ Controlled Chain " 

(Silent) (Colour), (8 
mm ) ( U .K .). 


1 - 11 - 69 


1760 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTİKA 2 , 1892) 


[PART III - SEC . 4. 


LA 


mm 


3 


6 


B /58055 


9 . 75 (1) 


Do . 


De 


59400 


" Aston s Mass Spec 

trograph ” (Silent) 
(8 mm ) ( U . K . ) . 


1 -11 -69 


U 


B /57989 


10 .67(1) 


Do . 


Do . 


59401 


“ The Plain Header” 

( Silent) ( 8 mm ) 
( U . K . ). 


1 - 11 -69 


A 
2625 


B / 57392 


31 - 10 -69 


“ Project X ” (Colour ) 2659 - 38( 10) Paramount Films of William Castle 
(English ) ( 35 mm ) 

India Ltd ., Hague ( U . S .A .). 
(U . S. A .). 

Bldg., Sprott Road , 
Bombay . 

ENDORSEMENTS 

ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 
B / 57482 
Film — " Dongarachi Maina” (Marathi) 
U -58057 dt. 14 - 8 -69 . 

Added 
Reel II - Shot showing show by Monkeys . . . . . . 
Reel III- - Shot showing show by Bear . . . . . . . 
Length of additions . . . . 

.. 

.. 

.. 

. . . 
Previous length certified . . . . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be ~ - 3943 - 58 m . 


. 
. 
. 


Metres 

39 .62 
60 .96 
100 .58 
3843 .00 


CORRECTIONS 


B / 42436 
Film - “ View & Teach -Acting from Pictur " 
U -Cert . No , 43786 , dt. 20th Jan ., 1965 . 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 metres instead of 152 . 4 metres . The number of 

reels remains unaffected at two . 
The certificate was endorsed on 28th October 1969 . 
B / 54741 
Film - - " ]zzat” (Hindi) (Colour ). 
U - Cert, No . 55757, dt. 3 - 12 -68 . 
The correct length on the face of the certificate may be read as 3932 . 38 metres instead of 3962. 38 metres. 
The certificate was endorsed on 29th October 1969. 
B /42439 
Film “ View & Teach - Rhythms of English Speech " (English ). 
U - Cert. No. 43789, dt. 20 -1-65 . 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 metres instead of 152 . 4 metres. 
The certificate was endorsed on 30th October 1969. 
B /48895 . 
Film - “ View & Teach No. 15 -What s Going To Happen ? " (English ) . 
U -Cert. No. , dt. 22- 2 -67, 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 170 metres instead of 167 . 64 metres . 
The certificate was endorsed on 30th October 1969 . 
B /48899 . 
Film — “ View & Teach -No. 19 - Learning In Groups" (English ). 
U - Cert. No. 49718 , dt. 2 - 2 -67 . 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 148 metres instead of 167.64 metres . 
The certificate was endorsed on 30th October 1969 , 
B /48903 . 
Film - “ View & Teach -No. 23 - Voiced ” (English ) . 
U - Cert . No, 49722 dt. 2 -2 -67 . 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 176 metres instead of 167. 64 metres . 
The certificate was endorsed on 1st. November 1969 . 
B /48904 
Film - “ View & Teach - The Unstreasse Vowels " (English ) . 
U -Cert. No. 49737 , dt, 6 -2 -67 . 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 170 metres instead of 167. 64 metres . 
The certificate was endorsed on 1st November 1969 . 


PART III -- SEC . 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1761 


Vm 


NNNN 


. 


1 


2 


so 


REFUSED CERTIFICATES 


B /56547 


B / 56548 
B /55529 


Do. 


Do . 


B / 55530 
B /57110 


B /57111 


The Bastard (Col.). ( En - 2534 . 71 (6 ) Warner Bros. Seven Ultrafilm , ( U . S . A .) Refused on 27 -10 -69 by R . C 
glish ) (35mm ) ( U . S .A ) 

Arts (F . E .) Inc . Eros 
Bldg . (Churchgate , 

Bombay . 
“ Trl . of the Bastard ” . 72 . 54 (1 ) 

Do. Do , 

Do . 
“ The Spilt” (Panavision ) 2505 . 76 (11 ) Metro Goldwyn Mayer Irwin Winkler & Robert Refused on 27 - 10-69 by R . C. 
(Col.) (Eng . ) ( 35mm ) 

1. Ltd . Metro House , Charliff , (U . S . A .) 
( U . S . A .) 

M . G . Road . Bombay 
“ Trl. of The Spilt" 67 . 36 ( 1 ) 

Do . 
“ Young Dillenger (Eng- 2792 . 88 (11) 20 Century -Fox Corpn , Alfreel W . Limbalist, Refused on 20 - 10 -69 by R . C . 
lish ) (35mm ) (U . S. A .) 

I . P . Ltd . Metro Hou 

(U . S . A .) 
se , M . G , Rd ., Bomb 

bay - 1 . 
Trl. of Young Dill- 58 . 82 (1) 

Do . Do. 

Do. 
engery s 
Anyone Can Play 2420 :42 ( 11) Paramount Films of Fausto Saracen , ( Italy ) Refused on 28 - 10 -69 by E . C . 
(Col.) ( Eng .) (35mm ). 

India Ltd . Hague Bldg . 
(Italy ). 

Spott Rd ., Bombay . 
“ Tri . of Anyone Can 46 . 00 (1 ) 

Do. Do. 

Do . 
Play " CALCUTTA 

U 
Cattle Ranch ( Col.) 243 . 84 (1 ) Secretary , Bengal So - British Columbia Dept. 58441 
(English ) (16mm ) 

cial Service League , of Education , Canada . - 
(Canada ) 1 /6 , Raja Dinendra 

27- 10 -69 
Street, Cal- 9 . 

U 
This Fortunate Land 487 . 68 (1) 

Do. 

K VOV Canada. 58442 
(Col.) (English ) ( 16 
mm ) (Canada .) 

27- 10 -69 


B /57511 


B /57512 


C /6387 


C /6388 


U 


C /6410 


Do . 


Walt Disney, U .S .A . 


58443 


Family Planning (Col.) 128 . 62 ( 1) 
(Bengali ) ( 16mm ) 
U . S .A . 


27 - 10 -69 


C /6420 


Chou Dance of Bengal 512 -46 (2) 
( English ) (35mm ) 
(India ) 


Films Orientalia , 55 , Bidesh Sarkar , C / O : 
Gariahat Road , Cal- 19 . Films Orientalia , 55 , 

Gariabat Road , Cal.- 
19 . 


58444 
- 
27 - 10 -69 


C /6425- 34 


Mandar Films, 209 , Bi- Mandar Films, 209 , Bi- 
dhan Sarani, Cal-6 . dhan Sarani, Cal.-6 . 


U 
58445 


27- 10 -69 


The Lamp For You 30 . 48 (1) 
(Col. ) Hindi, Bengali, 
Oriya , Assamese, Ta 
mil , Telugu , Malaya 
lam , Kannada , Guja 
rati , & Marathi) 
(35mm ) ( India ) 


U 


C /6438 


M 


Die Strasse Der Stah - 121 . 92 ( 1) 
lornen Ringe (Col.) 
(English ) (16mm ) 
West Germany. 


Dr. Ing . W . Bading, August Thyssen Huette , 58446 
General Supdt ; Rou West , Germany . 
rkela Steel Plant, Hin 

30 - 10 -69 
dustan Steel Ltd ., 
Rourkela . 

U 
Do . 

58447 


C/ 6439 


Do. 


Only Fogs are Grey 290 . 00 ( 1 ) 

(Col.) (English ) (16 
mm ) West Germany 


30 - 10 - 69 

U 
58448 


C /6440 


Do . 


Do . 


From Slab To Wide 121 . 92 (1 ) 
Strip (English ) ( 16 
mm ) West Germany . 


30 - 10 -69 

U 
58449 


C /6441 


Paschim Banga Sarka. 304 . 80 ( 1) 
rer Sangbad Chitra - 2 
October 69 (Beng) (35 
mm ) (India ). 


Graphic Documentaries Dept. of Information 

3 , S . R . Das Road , & Public Relation , 
Cal- 26 . 

Govt, of West Bengal 
Writers Buildings , 
Cal. - 1 . 


30 - 10 -69 


C /6351 


271 


L Excision En Pays 
Banda (Col.) (No dia 
logue , commentary , 
song or music ) ( 16mm ) 
France . 


Cultural Counsellor, R , Mores, France . 

French Embassy , New 
Delhi 


27 - 10 -69 


TTT 


1762 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[PART III- SEC. 4 


Fyw 


MLM 


M /5661 


M / 5764 


MADRAS 

U 
* Pananthumbu ’ ( Film on 666 . 90 (2 ) The Madras State Pal- Om Sakthi Films, 4 , Du - 57390 
Fibre ) ( Tamil) ( 35 mm ) 

Imgur Co- opty. Fed - kkaram 3rd St., Ma 
B & W ( India ) eration Ltd ., Madras. dras- 17 . 

28 - 10 -69 

U 
Mathrudevatha" ( Telugu ) 4567. 42 ( 18 ) Poorna Art Pictures, Poorna Art Pictures, 57391 With triangle mark . 
(35 mm ) B & W (India ) 

32 , 1st St., Bharathi- 32 , 1st St., Bharathi 

nagar , Madras-17 . nagar , Madras -17. 28-10-69 
Endorsement on Certificate No . 5791- U dated 28 - 10 -69 issued to the film ‘Mathrudevatha ( Telugu ) 35 mm . B & W . 

Length as in the application - 4567 . 42 Metres. 
Cuts --- 
1 , Reel 4 - -Delete the dialogue of the child (Latha ) to her mother “ Nuvvu Kooda 

Muddu Pettadhu ?” . ( Sound only - replaced ) . . . . . . . . . 
2 . Reel 7 --- Delete the following shots in the dance : - ( a ) the dancer shaking her hip 

in front violently , showing the shots below the midriff s 
dancer lying on her back on the table and shaking her breasts : (C) the 
dancer standing and shaking her breasts violently twice . (Replaced 
with villain s close - ups). 

10 . 66 
3 . Reel 14 - Delete the dialogue of the night-club owner (Moban ) to Lata " Neel 

anti Kannepillaluku Dabbu ivatom naaku alavate ." Sound only 
replaced ). 

Total cuts .. . . . . 10 .66 


Actual length of the film after cuts and replacement will be the same namely 4567 .42 Mts. in 18 Reels . 


M / 5770 


" Velliyazhcha (Mala - 3667 . 65 ( 14 ) 
yalam ) (35 mm ) B & W 
(India ) 
Puthumanai Pukuvi- 30 . 48 ( 1 ) 
zha ( Tamil) (35mm ) 
B & W . India . 


Solar Pictures, 11, Mu- Solar Pictures, 11 , Mu- 
rrays Gate Rd., Mad - rrays Gate Madras 
ras- 18 . 

18 , 
Kumari Films P . Ltd ., Kumari Films P . Ltd ., 

7 , Chitaranjan Rd . , 7 , Chitaranjan Rd., 
Madras- 18 . 

Madras - 18 . 


U 

57392 
30 -10 -69 

57393 


M / 5768 


1 - 11- 69 


M / 5771 


P . E . 


Our Younger Citizens 40 . 54 ( 1 ) 
( Tamil) (35mm ) B & W 
(India ). 


Shri N . Krishnaswamy, Shri N . Krishnaswamy, 
No . 6 - A , Second St., No, 6 - A , Second St., 
Lake Area , Madras- Lake Area , Madras 
34 . 

34 . 


U 

57394 
1 - 11 -69 


U 
57395 


M / 5769 


Sivandha Mann ( Ta - 5284 . 31 ( 19 ) 
mil) (Eastmancolour ) 
( 35mm ) (India ) 


Chithralaya Pictures ( P ) Chithralaya Pictures 
Ltd . . 39, North Boag (P ) Ltd ., 39 , North 
Rd ., Madras- 17 . Boag Rd., Madras- 17 , 


1 - 11- 69 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 8th November, 1969 . 


BOMBAY 


U 
59402 


B /58131 


" The World or BOAC ” 
(Colour ) (English ) 
( 16 mm ) (London ) . 


281- 33 ( 1) Filmlets ( P ) Ltd . BOAC , New Delhi, 

E - 75, North Bombay ( London ). 
Society Church , Road , 
Juhu , Bombay- 34 . 


3 - 11-69 


U 


B /58189 


99 .06 ( 1) 


59403 


Trailer of " Sati Sulo 
chana " (Hindi) (35 
mm ) (India ). 


S . A . Kapor, S . A . S . A , Kapor , Partner, 
Films, Shree Sound S . A , Films, Bombay 
Studios, Dadar , Bom - 14 . 
bay - 14 . 


3 - 11- 69 


U 


B / 58201 


" Glaxose - D - Tatkal 
Shakti- Saathi” ( Col.) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


29 .87 ( 1 ) Trio Films, Jyoti Trio Films, Bombay - 7 

Studios, Kennedy 
Bridge , Bombay - 7. 


59404 Valid for Marathi 

- & Hindi versions. 
3 - 11- 59 


U 


29 . 87 (1 ) 


B /58203- 8 


Do , 


Do . 


" Glaxose- D -For Ins 
tant Energy ” (Col. ) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


59405 Valid for English , 

Hindi, Bengali , 
3 - 11- 69 Tamil, Telugu & 

Malayalam versison . 
U 
59406 


Do. 


29 . 87 (1) 


Do . 


B /58207 


“ Glaxose - D - Fauran 
Shakti Paanc Ke 
Liye " (Col.) (Hindi) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


3 - 11 - 69 


VL 


- 


PART III - SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1763 


ht 


Lh 


B /58147 


“ Painter s Sketch - Book 

In Movies Instrumen 
tal No. One" 


88 .00 ( 1 ) M . F . Husain , 12 , M . F . Husain , Bombay 

Souter Street, Bom - 8 . 
bay-8 . 


U 
59407 Music -No dialogue 

or commentary . 
3 - 11-69 


U 


B /58129 


59408 


" Strife To Stability ": 

(Col.) ( English ) (35 
mm ) (India ). 


. 


284 .68 (1 ) Kantilal Rathod , Akar Kantilal Rathod , Bom 

Films, Bhulabhai Insti- bay- 26 . 
tute , 89 - B . Desai Rd . 
Bombay - 26 . 


3- 11-69 


U 


B /58169 


22 .00 (1) 


59409 


“ Ujle Logon Ka 
Nishaan " 

Col. ) 
(Hindi) (35 mm ) 
( India ) . 


F . B . Productions, F .B . Productions, Bom - 
Film Centre , 68 , bay - 34 . 
Tardeo Rd. Bombay 


** 


3-11-69 


- 


3 - 11-69 


34 . 


U 


B / 58160 


22 .00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


" Shaan Ka Nishan " 
" (Col.) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


59410 

- - -- Valid 
3 - 11 -69 Oriya 


for Hindi 

versions, 


B /58170 


59411 


“ Wings To The World ” 

( Col.) (English ) ( 35 
mm ) ( India ). 


459 . 002) Fali Bilimoria Produc- Fali Bilimoria Produc 

tions, Film Centre , tions, Bombay - 34 . 
68 , Tardeo Rd., 
Bombay- 34 . 


3 - 11 -69 


B / 52009 


59412 


“ Swastik In The Life 
Of Our Nation " 
(Col.) ( English ) (16 
mm ) ( India ). 


237 .73(2) Ram Gabale , Neelima , Ram Gable Produc 

2072 , Vijayanaggar tions, Poona - 9 . 
Colony, Poona- 9 . 


3 - 11-69 


22 .00 (1) 


59413 


B /58150 - 51 " Ujjwal Samudaay " 

(Col.) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ). 


F . B . Productions, Film 
Centre , 68 , Tardeo 
Rd. Bombay -34 . 


F . B . Productions, 
Bombay - 34 . 


Valid for Gujarati, 

& Hindi versions 


4 - 11 - 69 

U 
59414 


B / 58156 


22 . 00 ( 1) 


" Ujla Parivar ” ( Col.) 
(Hindi) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


F . B . Productions Film 
Centre 68 , Tardeo 
Rd . Bombay - 34 


F . B . Productions 
Bombay - 34 


4 - 11- 69 

U 
59415 


B /58159 


Do . 


“ Ujle 
(Hindi) 
(India ). 


22-00 (1) 


Do . 


Log " (Col. ) 
( 35 mm ) 


4 - 11 -69 


B / 58167 


22 .00 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


“ Ujli Shaan ” (Col.) 
(Hindi) (35 mm ) 
( India ). 


59416 


. 


22 . 00 (1) 


Do. 


B / 58152 -53 " Chamakdar Mandali 

(Col.) ( 35 mm ) 
India . 


4 - 11-69 

U 
59417 Valid for Marathi, 

- & Hindi versions . 
4 - 11 - 69 


U 


B /58199 


59418 


" Fulbright To India " 
(English ) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


566 . 32 ( 2 ) Image India Films P . Image Inaia Films P . 

Ltd . Nanabhay Man - Ltd . Bombay - 1 
sion , Ist floor , Sir 
P . M . Rd. Bombay - 1. 


5 - 11- 69 


U 


B /58011 


59419 


“ Faulty Fingers " 
( Col.) (Silent) (8 
mm ) ( U . K .). 


10 .97 ( 1) Macmillan & Co . Ltd . ICEM London , (U . K . ) 

276 , Hornby Road , 
Bombay- . 


5 - 11 -69 

U 
59420 


B / 58047 


19 .81(1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


B /58224 


" Stationary Waves" 
(Col.) (Silent) (8mm ) 
( U . K .) . 
“ Mahitichitra No . 
114 ” (Gujarat) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


5 - 11-69 
257 -55 (1 ) Director of Infor- Director of Infor 59421 

mation , Govt . of mation , Govt. of - 
Gujarat, Sachivalya , Gujarat, Sachivalya , 5 - 11-69 

Ahemadabad - 15 . Ahemadabad - 15 . 
304 . 19 (1 ) Director of Publicity , Director of Publicity , 59422 

Govt. of Maharashtra , Govt of Maharashtra , - - - 
Sachivalya , Bombay- 32 Bombay - 32 . 

5 - 11- 59 


B /58217 - 18 “ Maharashtra News 

No. 209 October 
1969 " (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


Valid for Marathi, 
Hindi versions . 


U 


B /58219 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1100 " ( 35 mm ) 
(India ). 


Valid for 

versions. 


14 


160 . 32 (1) Film Division , Govt. Film Division , Govt. 59423 

of India , 24 , Peddar of India , Bombay -26 . - - - 
Rd. Bombay - 26 . 

5 - 11 -69 

U 
254 .00 (1 ) Do . 

Do . 

59424 


B / 58220 " Expression " 

commentary 
only ) (35 

(India ). 
299GI/70 - 10 


(No 
Music 
mm ) 


5 - 11-60 


1764 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


[Pari III - Sec . 4 


Wenn 


NV 


2 


W 


M 


U 


B /58146 


59425 


“ Black Bose ” (Col.) 
( English ) ( 16 mm ) 
(England ). 


191 72(2) Image India Films P . Peter Milts, (England ) 

Ltd . Nanabhay Man 
sion , Ist floor, Sir 
P . M . Rd. Bombay - 1 . 


5 -11-69 


B / 58136 


3,825 .00 ( 16) 


59426 


“ Rambhakta Hanu - 
man ” (Col.) (Hindi) 
(35 mm ) ( India ) . 


Adarshlok, Manek Adarsh B . K . Bombay - 
Chambers, Laming. 4 . 
ton Rd , Bombay - 4 . 


With triangle mark 


N 


6 - 11-69 


Endorsement 

Original length . - - 3835 mm . 
Reel VII. --- Delete shots of Ravana molesting Seeta , - 10 . 00m . 
Reel XIV .-- Delete references to monkeys doubting the character of Seeta .- (Sound only ). 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be...--3825 .00 m . 

U 
“ Insaaf- Ka -Mandir ! 3960 .88 ( 15 ) Sasaram Chitra , Sherbahadur Singh & 59427 
(Hindi) (35 mm ) 

7 / 5 -Kandhari, Colo Jagdish Singh , Bom 
(India ). ny, Chembur, Bom bay -71, 

6 - 11 - 69 
bay -71 . 

U 
“ Wills Ki Khoobi” 29 .87(1) Trio Films, Jyoti Trio Films, Bombay-7 . 59428 
(Col.) (Hindi) ( 35 

Studio , Kennedy Bri 
mm ) (India ). dge , Bombay -7 . 

6 - 11 -69 


B / 58126 


B /58223 


U 


B /58222 


29 .87(1) 


Do. 


Do . 


59429 


“ War Deciared " ( En 
glish ) (35 mm ) 
( India ). 


6 - 11 -69 


U 


B /58010 


ICEM London , (U . K .). 


59430 


“ How A Virus Multi 
plies " ( Silent) ( 35 mm ) 
mm ) ( U . K .). 


10 .67 (1 ) Macmillan & Co. Ltd . 

276 , Hornby Road , 
Bombay . 


6 - 11 - 69 


B /58021 


18 . 59(1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


59431 


“ Swimming The Front 
crawl" (Silent) ( 8 
mm ) (U . K .). 


6 - 11 -69 

U 
59432 


B /58640 


18 . 59 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


Do . 


" Swimming The Ba. 

ckcrawl" (Silent) (8 
mm ) (U .K .). 


6 - 11-69 

U 
59433 


B / 57988 


12 . 19( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


“ Learning To Dive " 
(Silent ) 
( U . K . ) 


6 - 11- 69 

U 
59434 


B /57987 


7 .92(1) 


Do . 


Do . 


“ Plain And Spherica ) 
Waves : Diffraction 
At Obstacles " (Sil 
ent) (Colour ) ( 8mm ) 
( U .K .) 


6 - 11 -69 


B /58038 


14 . 33 ( 1 ) 


U 
59435 


Do . 


Do . 


“ Ripple Tank Diffra . 
action " (At An Aper 
ture ) (Silent ) ( Col. ) 
(8mm ) (( U . K .) 


6 - 11- 69 


U 


B /58044 


(Silent) (8m ) 


“ Turns" 
( U . K .) 


20 . 73 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


59436 


6 - 11 -69 

U 
59437 


B /58010 


13 . 11(1) 


Do . 


Do . 


“ Learning The Brest 
stroke” ( Silent ) 
(8mm ) (U . K .) 


6 -11- 69 

U 
59438 


B /58022 


11 . 89 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


“ Learning The Back 
crawl" (Silent) 
(8mm ) (U . K .) 


6 . 11 -69 

U 
59439 


B /57999 


8 .23(1) 


Do . 


Do . 


“ Ripple Tank - Inter 
ference " (Silent ) 
( 8mm ) (U . K .) 


6 - 11 -69 


B /58039 


15 . 24 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


59440 


“ Ripple Tank - Refrac 

tion ” (Silent) (Co . 
lour) (8mm ) ( U . K .) 


6 - 11 -69 


PART III - SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1765 


m 


. 


2 


3 


B /58037 


14 .02(1) 


Do . 


59441 


“ Ripple Tank : Reflec 
tion ” (Silent) (Col 
lour) (8mm ) (U . K .) 


6 - 11 -69 


U 


B /58050 


11 : 59 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


59442 


" Circulation 

Blood " (Silent) 
(8mm ) ( U .K .) 


6 - 11 -69 


U 


B /58154 


59443 


“ Jagajagisuya Man 
dali" (Kannada ) 
(Colour ) ( 35mm ) 
(India ) 


F . B , Productions , 
Film Centre , 68 , 
Tardeo Rd. Bom 
bay- 34. 


F . B . Productions, 
Bombay -34 . 


7 - 11 -69 


B / 58157 


22 .8 (1 ) 


U 
59444 


Do. 


" Surya Paripalana " 
( Telugu ) ( Colour) 
(35mm ) (India ) 


7 - 11 -69 

U 
59445 


B /58168 


22 .8(1) 


“ Surya Kanthi” (Col) 
( Timal) (35mm ) 
( India ) 


Do , 


7 - 11 -69 


U 


B / 58162 


“ Tejovanthula Kova " 

(Col.) ( 35mm ) (India ) 


22 .8 ( 1) 


Do . 


59446 

- 
7 - 11-69 


Valid for Telugu 
& Tamil versions. 


63 


U 


B /58164 


“ Ujjwal Dal” (Col.) 
(35mm ) (India ) 


22 .00(1) 


Do . 


59447 

- 
7 - 11 - 69 
U 
59448 


Valid for Bengali , 
Assamese & Oriya 
versions. 


B / 58155 


22 - 8 ( 1 ) 


F . B . Productions, 
Film Centre , 68 , 
Tardeo Rd . Tardeo 
Rd . Bombay - 34 . 


F . B , Productions, 
Bombay - 34 , 


“ Ujjwala Vashtra Dh 
arikal” (Col.) (Mala . . 
yalam ) ( 35mm ) 
(India ) 


7 - 11 -69 


B /58158 


22 .8 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


59449 


“ Kathiroli Manda 

lam ” (Col.) ( Tamil ) 
( 35mm ) ( India ) 


7 - 11 -69 


U 


B /58216 


“ Did You Ever Taste 
Laughter " (Col.) 
( English ) (35mm ) 
(India ) 


29 .87 (1 ) Durga Khote Produc - Durga Khote Produc 

tions, India House , tions, Bombay - 1 . 
1st floor , Fort street , 
Bombay - 1 . 


59450 
7- 11-69 


B /58213 


59451 


" Iru Vazhiyil Seyal 
padum Dequadin " 
( Tamil ) (35mm ) 
( India ) 


30 .00 ( 1 ) Widescreen , 4 , Shirin , Widescreen , 

Colaba Post Office , Bombay-4 , 
Bombay- 4 . 


7 - 11-69 


B /58214 


30 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


59452 


" Du Bhabe Kajkare 
Dequadin " ( Bengali ) 
( 35mm ) ( Indian ) 


7 -11-69 


U 


B / 57691 


“ Van Gogh " ( English ) 
(16mm ) (U . K . ) 


B . B . C . (U .. K .) 


59453 


146 . 32 ( 1) National Education & 

Information Films 
Ltd , National House , 
Tulloch Rd , Bombay 


7 - 11 -69 


B /57721 


335 .57( 1 ) 


Do. 


59454 


“ Management Techni. 
ques (Film No . 2 ) 
Control By Budget 
ing" ( English ) ( 16mm ) 


B . B . C . Tv. (Paul 

Ellis ) (U . K .) 


7 - 11 -69 


( U . K .) 


B /57722 


335 . 57 ( 1) 


Do. 


U 
59455 


Do . 


DO . 


“ Management Techni . 
ques ( Film No. 3 ) 
Producing To A 
Plan " (English ) 
( 16mm ) ( U . K .) 


7 - 11 - 69 


B /57720 


35-50) 


335 . 57 ( 1) 


Do 
. 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


“ Management Tech 
niques (Film No. 1 ) 
Seeing The Future 
(English ) ] : (16 mm ) 
(U . K .) 


59456 


7 - 11-69 


AND 


1766 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892 ) 


( Pari 111— SIC . 41 


NAM 


- 


NE 


- 


(2 ) 


(3) 


( 4 ) 


(5) 


(6) 


(7 ) 


h 


un 


ENDORSEMENTS 

CORRECTIONS 
B /48898 

Film : “ View & Teach - No . 18 - The Language of Science" ( Eng.) 

U -49727 dt. 2 -2 - 1969 . 
The length of the film on the face of the certificatemay be read as 161 metres instead of 167 . 54 metres. 
The certificate was endorsed on 4th November 1969 , 
B /48901 

Film : “ View & Teach -No. 21- Correcting Mistakes" (English ) 

U -49720 dt. 2 - 2 - 1969. 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 166 matres instead of 167 .64 meties . 
The certificate was endorsed on 4th November 1969 . 

VERSIONS 
B /58179 
Film : “ Apollo 11 One Giant Leap For Mankind " (English ) ( Col. ) 
U -58251 dt 5 . 9 . 69 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati, & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length 

of the film remains unaltered , 
The certificate was endorsed on 4th November 1969 . 
B / 58171 
Film : “ Apollo 12 ( English ) (Colour) 
U - 58306 dt. 12 -9 -69 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati , Bengali, Timal, Telugu , Kannada & Malayalam versions 

of the film in colour . The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 4th November 1969 . 

CALCUTTA 


C -6443 


Vasa ( Bengali ) (35 mm ) 
( India ). 


58450 


326 •14 ( 1) Barin Saha , 18 / B , 

Bipradas Street, Cal - 
cutta - 9 . 

MADRAS 


Barin Saha , 18 / B , 

Bipradas Street , Cal. - - 
cutta - 9 . 


7 - 11 -69 


U 


M - 5772 


57396 


Chellappen ( Tamil) 
( 35 mm ) (B & W .) 
India .) 


3976 .11 ( 16 ) K . K . Films, 32 , Ven . 

katnarayana Rd. , 
Madras - 17 . 


Shri K . Krishnamurti , 
32 , Venkatanarayana - 
Road , Madras- 17 . 


3 - 11 - 69 


M - 5780 


114 .00 ( 1 ) 


Sunil Pictures, 505 , 
Mint St. , Madras 


Sunil Pictures, 505 , 
Mint St ., Madras - 3 . 


57397 


Trailier of Dhorala 
Dhongala (Telugu ) 
( 35 mm ) ( B & W ) 
( India ) . 


5 - 11- 69 


U 


M -5762 Paisa Ya Pyar "" (Hin - 4770 . 80 (18 ) Jayvee , 19 North Boag Jayvee , 19, North Buag 57398 
di) ( Eastman Colour) 

Road , Madras- 17. Road ,Madras- 17 . - 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 

5 -11-69 With triangle mark . 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 57398 - U dated 5th November 1969 - - issued to the filmn ‘Paisa Ya Pyar (Hindi) ( Eastmancolour) ( 35 mm ) 

Length as in the application . _ - 4921 : 30 Metres. 
Cuts 

Metres 
1. Reals 1 & 18 - Delete the word ‘ Prime from the word ‘Prime Minister in the dialogue whereverit occurs. 

11 . 27 
2 . Reels 3 - Delete the shot in which Shanti dressed in a tight dress sits with legs apart in an indifferentmanner on the couch . 4 . 25 
3 . Reels 4 - - ( a ) From the swimming pool sequence , delete ali che under-water shots in which Shanti and Shekhar are shown in 
close physical proximity . 

4 . 56 
( b ) Delete thë shot in which Shekhar runs his hand over the chest and stomach of Shanti 

3 .64 
4. Reels 10 - Delete from the dialogue between Deepak and Dhanno the words Hojaye. 

0 . 91 
5 . Reels 11-- - From the text of the song beginning with words Thoo Bhi Number Ek Hai Pyare , delete the word Syndicate , 

wherever it occurs, and delete the stanza beginning ‘ Jinko Chochen Buddi. . . . . . to Nayi Nasal Se Takkar Ley Lo . { 125 . 87 
6 . Reels 11 - From the picturisation of the saine song , delete the shot showing the Idol ofHanuman ( Entire song has been j 

deleted voluntarily by the applicant . 


Total cuts 


150 .50 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be 4770 .80 Metres in 18 Reels . 


M - 5745 


57399 


Shantala (Ballet Dan 
nce ) (Orwocolour ) ( 35 
mm ) ( India ) , 


270 - 36 ( 1 ) Ramesn Movies, Ban - 

galore - 9 . 


Ramesh Movies, Ban 
galore - 9 . 


M - 5777 


‘ Veragarjanai ( Tamil) 
( 35 mm ) ( B & W ) ( In 
dia ). 


3610 - 35 (14 ) Imperial Films, 32 , 

Nadu St., Madras-4 . 


Imperial Films, 32 , 
Nadu St., Maras-4 . 


6 - 11 -69 

U 
57400 
6 - 11 -69 


mm 


PART III - SEC . 4 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1767 


(1) 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


( 4 ) 


(5 ) 


M - 5713 


65001 


*Hoobisilu (Kannada ) 

(35 mm ) ( B & W ) ( In 
dia ) . 


4516 .82 (17 ) KalajmaniMovies, 49, Kalaimani Movies, 49, 

Iyamperumal Mudali Iyamperumal Mudali - 
St., Madras- 14 . 

St. Madras - 14 . 


7 -11-69 


U 


M - 5765 " Pratheekara (Kanna - 4267 .20 ( 15 ) Shanthala Films, No. Shantala Films, No . 65002 
da ) (35 mm ) ( B & W . ) 

533 , KrumbiegalRd., 533 , Krumbiegal Rd. , - 
(India ). 

Bangalore - 4 . Bangalore - 4 . 

7- 11 -69 
Particulars of Films Granted or Refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors ( Regional Office , Calcutta ) during the 

Week Ending 15th November 1969. 

BOMBAY 


U 


B /58238 


“ Indian News Re 
view No . 1101" 
(35mm )( India ) 


127 . 40 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt . Films Division , Govt. 59457 Valid for 14 versions 

of India , 24 , Peddar of India , Bombay -26 . – 
Rd . Bombay - 26 . 

12 - 11-69 


B /58256 


185 . 04 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


59458 


Valid for 14 versions 


“ The Story of Ven 
kataramiah " ( 35mm ) 
( India ) 


12 - 11-69 


59459 


B /58188 


“ The School In So 

ciety " (Col.) ( Eng 
lish ) (16mm ) (Swe 
den ) 


804 . 10 ( 1 ) Royal Swedish Em - Swedish Institute , 

bassy , 1 , Vyaya Marg , Stockhdm , (Nordisk 
Chanakyapuri , New Tonefilm ) (Sweden ) 
Delhi - 11 . 


13- 11 -69 


U 
59460 


B / 58140 


8 


“ Wonderful World 
of Formica " (Col.) 
(English ) (16mm ) 
(India ) 


383 . 00 ( 1 ) Formica India Ltd . Eruch Fanibunda , 16 , 

9 . Wallace Street, Mayo Road , Bom 
Fort . Bombay - 1 . 

bay - 1 . 


13 - 11 -69 


B / 58257 


Trailer of “ Jeff ” (Col.) 
( English ) ( 35mm ) 
( U . S . A .) 


1 


B / 58271 


" Indian News Re - 
view No . 1101 - A " 
(35mm ) ( India ) 


U 
82 - 30 ( 1 ) Warner Bros. Seven Alain Delon , ( U . S . A .) 59461 

Arts ( F . E . ) Inc , 
Eros Bldg . . Church 

13 - 11 -69 
gate, Bombay. 

U 
161 . 84 (1 ) Films Division , Goví. Films Division Govt. 59462 Valid for 14 versions 

of India , 24 , Peddar of India , Bombay - 26 . - 
Rd . Bombay - 26 . 

14 - 11-69 

U 
177 . 08 ( 1 ) B . R . Chopra , 4 Chiney B . R . Chopra , Bom - Cancelled . 

Colony , Juhu Ra b ay - 54 . 
Bombay- 54 . 

U 
177 . 08 (1 ) Do . 

Do. 

59464 
14 - 11 -69 


B /58273 


" Ittefaq Ki Raat " 
(Col.) (Hindi) ( 35mm ) 
(India ) 


B /58273 


Trailer of " Ittefaq ” 
( Col.) (Hindi) ( 35mm ) 
(India ) 


B / 58259 


" The Discoverers " 
(Col.)( English ) ( 16mm ) 
( U . S . A .) 


(35mm ) 


B /58246 

55 


“ Terene " 
( India ) 


22.1 . 28 ( 1 ) U . S . Informatinn Ser - A Peckham Production 59465 

vice , Fazal Dhoy (U . S . A . ) 
House , Marine Lines , 

14 - 11 -69 
Bombay . 

U 
29 .87 (1 ) Leela Naidu , Leela Leela Naidu , Leela 59466 Valid for English , 
Naidy Productions, Naidu Productions, — 

Hindi, Tamil, 
12 , Sargent House , Bombay - 1 . 

14 - 11- 69 Telugu , Marathi, 
Barrow Ru , Bombay - 1 

Gujarati, Bengali, 
Kannada, Assa 
mcs & Malaya 

lam versions. 

U 
95 . 71 ( 1 ) Raj Khosla Films, Raj Khosla Raj, 59467 With triangle mark . 

Mehboob Studios, Khosla Films, Bom - - 
Hill Road , Bandra , bay - 50 . 

15 - 11 -69 
Bombay - 50 . 


B / 57910 


Trailer of " Do Raaste " 
(Col. (Hindi) ( 35mm ) 
(India ) 


Endorsement 
Original length - 98 . 76m . 

Delete the opening shots of the scantily -clad female dancer performing at the club . - 3 . 05m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be- 95 . 71m . 


U 
59468 


B /58210 


Trailer of “ Fever 
Heat" ( Col ) English ) 
(35mm ) ( U . S . A .) 


65 . 23 ( 1 ) Paramount Films of Russell S . Doughten 

India Ltů . Hague Jr . ( U . S . A . ) 
Bldg . Sprott Rd . 
Bombay . 


15- 11-69 


1768 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


[PART III — Sec . 4 


- 


- 


(2 ) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


B /58239 


“ Nuclear Power From 
Tarapur ” ( English ) 
(35mm ) ( India ) 


59469 


358 . 75( 2 ) Ama Private Ltd . 

Canada Bldg : Hornby 
Rd . Bombay - 1 . 


Ama Private Ltd . Bom 
bay - 1 


15 - 11 -69 

U 
59470 


B /58263 


" Richer 

(Engiislı ) 
(India ) 


Harvests" 

(35mm ) 


258 . 46 ( 1 ) Durga Khote Produc - Durga Khote Produc 

lions , India House , tions, Bombay- 1 . 
first floor , Fort 
Street, Bombay - 1 . 


15 - 11 -69 


B /58190 


" Nootan Lux ” (Col.) 
( 35mm ) ( India ) 


24 . 38 ( 1) Chopra Films, Anand Chopra Films, Bom - 

Villa , 15th Rd , Bom - bay - 54 . 
bay- 54 . 


59471 Valid for Bengali , 

Assamese , Hindi 
15 - 11 -69 & Oriya Versions 


B /58194 . 


“ Navin Lux” ( Col.) 

( 35mm ) (India ) 


24 . 38 (1) 


Du . 


Do. 


Do . 


95 


ІІ 
59472 Valid for Gujarati 

- - & Hindi versions . 
15 - 11 -69 


B / 58196 


24 . 38 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


59473 


- 


" Naya Lux " (Col. ) 
(Marathi) (35mm ) 
( India ) 


15 - 11 - 69 


U 


B / 57972 


" Star On The Run " 
(Col.) (Hindi) ( 35mm ) 
(India ) 


30 . 48 ( 1) Indra Bijlani, United United Film Markets , 59474 

Film Makers , 311 - 12 , Bombay - 1 . 
Himalayala House , 

15 - 11 -69 
Palton Road , Bom 
bay- 1 . 

U 
4378 . 44 ( 17 ) Sippy Films, 3 - G , G , P . Sippy , 23 Anand 59475 

Nazz Building , Bom Nivas , A Road , - 
bay - 4 . 

Churchgate, Bom - 15 -11 -69 
bay. 


B /58211 


" Bandhan ” 
(Hindi) 
(India ) 


(Col.) 
( 35mm ) 


B / 58258 


29992 ( 1) 


UT 
59476 


“ Moonlanding Step 
Two" ( English )( 16mm ) 
( U . S . A . ) 


U . S . Information Ser - 
vice , Fazal Bhoy 
House , Marine Lines , 
Bombay. 


U . S . Information 
Agency , (U . S . A . ) 


15 - 11 -69 


B / 58113 


desmico . English) 


elige. Echurches, 


15-11-69 


“ Upwind -Down Un 24160 ( 1 ) Warner Bros. Seven Art Mayer, ( U . S . A . ) 59477 With triangle mark . 
der" (Col. ) ( English ) 

Aits ( F . E . ) Inc, Eros . 
(35mm )( U . S . A .) 

Bldg . Churchgate , 

Bombay . 
Endorsement 
Original length - 254 . 50ın . 
Delete the shots giving close views of the girls at the beach from the point one of them takes off her clothes, revealing 

her figure in bikini as the camera remains focussed on naval, thighs and posteriors and taking into similar view 

figures of other girls in bikini. - 12 . 90m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be -- 241. 60m . 


U 


B / 58114 


“ Big John " 

(English ) 
( U . S . A .) 


(Col.) 
(35mm ) 


59478 


259 . 00 ( 1 ) Warner Bros. Seven Art Mayer , (U .S .A .) 

Arts ( F . E . ) Inc . Eros 
Bldg . Churchgate , 
Bombay . 


15 - 11 -69 


B /58117 


" Tower " (Col. )(Eng 
lish ) (35mm ) ( U .S .A .) 


283 . 77 (1 ) 


Do . 


Seneca 
( U .S . A ) 


Production , 


U 

59479 
15- 11-69 


U 


B / 58118 


185 .60 ( 1 ) 


" See Ya Later Gla 
diator” Col. (English ) 
(35mm ) ( U . S . A . ) 


Warner Bros . Seven Arts 59480 
(U . S .A ) 

15 - 11-69 

U 
Norman Weissman , 59481 English Titles No 
(U . S . A .) 

dialogue or com 
15 - 11 -69 mentary . 


B /58116 


315 .00 ( 1) 


" See Holland Before 
It Gets Too Big . " 
(Col.)( 35mm )( U . S . A . ) 


U 


B / 58112 


259 . 00 (1 ) 


Bill L . 
( U . S . A . ) 


Hendricks, 


“ Big Game Haunt" 
(Col.) (English ) (35mm ) 
( U .S .A .) 


59482 


15 - 11-69 


U 


B / 58115 


(Col.) 
(35 mm ) 


428 .85 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


“ Motion ” 
(English ) 
(U . S . A .) . 


Crawley Film s Ltd ., 

(U .S . A .). 


59483 


11- 11 -69 


PART III - SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1769 


1 


3 


4 


B /57872 


" Jeft ” .. .. (Colour) , 2468 •88(5 ) Do. 

Alain Delon , (U .S . A .) 2626 
( English ) ( 35 mm ) 
(U . S . A .) 

13- 11 -69 
ENDORSEMENTS 

Alterations under Rule 34 . 
B /42046 

Film : " Tokens of Gratitude (English ). 
U -43087 , dt. 23- 11 -64 . 
Deleted various shots.- 03 . 00 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 214 . 00 m . 
The certificate was endorsed on 12th November 1969 . 

VERSIONS 
B /58221 

Film : " The Best Advt. For Number Ten ” (Col.) (English ) 
U - 54944 , dt. 6 - 9 - 1969. 
The certificate is valid also for the Kannada version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 

unaffected . 
B /58227 

Film : “ America In Space : The First Decade” (Col.) (Eng.) 
U -57816 , dt. 17 -7 -69 . 
The certificate is valid also the Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 

unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 12th November 1969 . 
B /58230 

Film : " The First Day " ( Col.) (Eng .) 
U - 57763 , dt. 8- 7 -69 . 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 

unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 12th November 1969. 
B / 58225 

Film : " Price of Fire " ( Eng. ) 
U - 34377 dt. 23- 12 -61 . 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film . The legngth of the film remains unaltered ., 

The certificate was endorsed on 12th November 1969 . 
B /58135 

Film : “ Grassland Farming " (Eng . ) 
U - 32193 , dt. 13 -4 -61 . 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film . The length of the film remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 13th November 1969. 
B / 58226 

Film : " Organisation Accident Dont Happen No. 1." 
U -51927 , dt. 24 - 10 -67 . 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi varision of the film . The length of the film remain unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 13th November 1969. 
B /58132 

Film : “ The Original of Weather ” 
U - 31911 , dt. 19 - 9 -63 . 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film . The length of the film remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 13 November 1969. 
B / 58134 

Film : " Rescue Party " ( Eng. ) 
U - 37545m dt. 4 - 2- 63 . 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film . The length of the film remains unaltered . 

The certificate as endorsed on 13th November 1969 , 
B /58134 

Film : " One Man : Blaine Johnson ” (Col.) (Eng. ) 
U - 57560 , dt. 3 -6 -69. 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the 

film remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969 . 
B /58183-84 

Film : “ One Man : Dr. Robert Simpson ” (English ) (Col.) 
U -57561, dt. 3-6 -69 . 


1770 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


(Part III - SEC . 4 


M 


AL 


ORASULwww 


VON 


The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film 

remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969 . 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film 

remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969. 
B /58133 

Film : " What is Behind The ‘ Tag ” ( English ) ( Col.) 
U - 35256 , dt. 23-4 -62. 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film . The length of the film remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969 . 
B / 58131 

Film : “ Poultry Nutrition ” ( English ) 
U - 34897 , dt. 7 - 3 -62 . 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film . The length of the film remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969 . 
B /58187 

Film : “ Jamboree for Friendship " (English ) 
U - 54976 , dt. 10 - 9 -69. 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 

unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969 . 
B /58232 

Film : “ The Road " ( English ) 
U - 55656 , dt. 13 - 11- 1968 . 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film . The length of the film remains unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969. 
B / 58231 

Film : " Bridge To Space ” (Hindi) 
U -57719, dt. 1 - 7- 1969. 
The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film in colour . The length of the film remains 

unaltered . 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969. 
B /58228 

Film : “ One Man : Floyd Hyde” (English ) 
U - 57566 , dt, 3 -6 - 69 
The certificale is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film 

remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969. 


CORRECTION 


B / 42444 
Film : “ View & Tcach - Acting A Story " (English ) 

U - 43794 , dt. 20 - 1 - 65 . 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 metres instead of 1524metres 

The certificate was endorsed on 12th November 1969 . 
B /48897 

Film : “ View & Teach : No. 17 – The Window Is Broken ” (English ) 
U - 49729 , dt, 2 - 2 -67 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 154 metres instead of 167 .64 meties. 

The certificate was endorsed on 13th November 1969 . 
B / 42465 

Film : “ View & Teach - -- Planning Oral Work ” ( English ) 
U -43796 , dt. 20 -1 -65 . 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 metres instead of 152 .4 metres 

The certificate was endorsed on 13th November 1969 
B / 42441 

Film : “ View & Teach - - Oral Practice " 
U -43791 , dt. 20 -1 -65 . 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 metres instead of 152 . 4 metres. 
The certificate was endorsed on 13th November 1969 . 


- LV 


PART III — SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1771 


MULT 


M 


NASIL 


ARM 


MO 


I 


2 


3 


5 


6 


C /6405 


Samantaral (Beng .) 
(35 mm ) ( India ) . 


3340 .00 (12 ) 


CALCUTTA 
Shadow Movies, 13/ 3 , Shadow Movies, 13/ 3, 
Monohar Pukur Rd ., Monohar Pukur Rd. , 
Calcutta - 26 . 

Calcutta - 28 . 


U 
58451 


10 - 11 -69 


U 


C /6444 - 5 


Superlac 

Twins 
(Coloured ) (English 
and Hindi) (38 mm ) 
( India ). 


30 . 48 (1 ) Image India Films ( P ) 

Ltd ., 9 / 1, Love look 
Place , Calcutta - 19 . 


Image India Films ( P ) 58452 
Ltd ., 9 /1 , Lovelock - -- 
Place , Calcutta - 19 . 10 - 11 -69 


C /6442 


U 
58453 


Punarjibon (Assamese ) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


365 • 76 (1) 


Asit Sinha (Sinhasit ), Asit Sinha (Sinhasit ), 
2 , Biswas Nursery 2 , Biswas Nursery - 
Lane , Calcutta - 10 . Lane , Calcutta - 10 . 


10 - 11-69 


U 


C /6409 


58454 


Study in Steel (Col. ) 
( English ) ( 16 mm ) 
( U . K . ). 


320 ( 1) Hindustan Steel Ltd . , British Steel Corpn . 

6 , Ganesh Chandra U . K . 
Avenue, Calcutta - 3 . 


10 -11 -69 


MADRAS 


U 


M /5782 


“ Varnalaya " ( Tamil ) 
(Orwocolour ) ( 35mm ) 
( India ) 


35 .00 (1) Kalaimani Movies , Kalaimani Movies , 65003 

49 , Iyemperumal 49 , Iyemperumal - 
Mudali St., Madras Mudali St., Madras 14 12 -11-69 
14 . 


M / 5775 


U 
“ Thudikkum Thup . 4070 - 77 (18 ) Tamilmani Films, 4 , Tamlimani Films, 4 , 65004 With triangle mark . 
paki” ( Tamil) (35mm ) 

Thanikachalam Chetti Thanikachalam Chetti - 
( B & W )(India ) 

St., Madras 17 . St. , Madras- 17 . 13- 11 -59 
Endorsement on Censor Certificate No. 65004 - U dated 13th November 1969 - issued to the film “ Thudikkum Thuppaki" 

( Tamil) 35mm . B & W . 
Length as in the application 4079 .74 Metres . 
Cuts. 

Metres, 
1 . Reel 4 - Song 1 -- Delete the following lines (a ) Then Kannam Aa Enn Kannam . Pottukko 

Raja Pottukko . (h ) Azhakana Vazhaithandu , and (c ) Then Vaidyum Kaadhal Mottu 

Mottu ( The entii fsong has been removed and replaced with a fresh song - sound only) . - 
2 . Reel 9 - Delete the last shot at the end of song No. 3 , where Anand puts his head on the 
bust of Shanti 

0 .60 
3 . Reel 14 - Delete the sequence where the policeman is shaking with fear on seeing the dead 
body move . 

8 .37 


Total cuts . 


8 . 97 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be 4070 •77 Metres in 18 Reels . 


M /5774 


M / 5778 


Trailer of Tudikkum 88 . 40 ( 1 ) Tamilmani Films, 4 , Tamilamani films, 4 , 65005 
Thuppakki ( Tamil) 

Thanikachalam Chetti Thanikachalam Chetti 
(35mm )( B & W ) (India ). 

St., Madras- 17 . St. , Madras- 17 . 

13- 11-69 

U 
“ Kannula Panduga " 4517 . 91 ( 17 ) Vikas Productions , Vikas Productions, 65006 With triangle mark 
( Telugu ) ( Partly col 

42 , G . N . Chetti , Rd . 42 , G . N . Chetti Rd., - - 
oured )(35mm )(India ) 

Madras - 17 . Madras- 17 . 

13 - 11-69 
Endorsement on Censor Certificate No. 65006 - U dated 13th November 1969 - issued to the film “ Kannula Panduga 

( Telugu ) (Partly coloured) (35mm ). 

Length as in the application - 4535 •00 Metres. 
Cuts . 

Metres 
1. Reel 4 — Reduce the beating of Meenakshi by Kanthamma drastically (by 75 % ) 

7 .60 
2 . Reel 9 — Reduce the beating of Meenakshi by Kanthamma in two separate sequences once 

by hand and another by cane. (both drastically - by 75 % ) . 
3 . Reel 10 _ Delete the shot where the dancer (Baby) shakes her hips in backways and forwards 
motion while putting her knee down on a pedestal. 

3 .40 


6 . 09 


Total Cuts 


17 .09 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be 4517 .91 Metres in 17 Reels. 
Black & White portion of the film is 4217 .91 Metres . Orwo colour portion in Reel No. 17 : 298 . 00 Metres . 


U 


M /5788 


4712 -20( 16 ) Sri Nandhi Films, 

Mysore . 


‘ Brindavana (Kannada ) 
(Partly coloured ) 
(35mm )( India ) 


Sri Nandhi 
Mysore . 


Films, 


65007 


15 - 11 -69 


NU 


M299GI/70. . - 11 


1772 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


[PART III — Sec. 4 


MNR 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the Week -ending 22nd November 1969 


BOMBAY 


U 


B /58291 


59484 


“ Refreshei Course For 
Asi.. n 

Script 
Writers " (English ) 
(35 mm ) ( India ) . 


934 .00(4 ) Filin Institute of India , Film Institute of India , 

Law College Road , Bombay- 4 . 
Poona - 4 . 


17 - 11 -69 


U 
59485 


B /58264 


" Aap Ki Pasand" 
( Colour) (Hindi) 
( 35 mm ) (India ) . 


29 . 87 ( 1 ) Clarion -Mccann Ad - Jyoti G . Thakur, Film 

vertising Service Pvt. Medja , 47 , Laxmi 
Ltd .Merchant Cham - Assurance Bldg . Sir 
bers, Bombay. P .M . Road Fort , 

Bombay- 1 . 


17 -11-69 


B /58266 


29 .87 (1) 


Do . 


U 
59486 


Do . 


“ Apna Hi Maja " (Col. ) 
(Hindi) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ). 


17- 11-69 


B /58088 


59487 


With triangle mask , 


17 - 11 -69 


12 - 13m . 


“ Nateeja " ( Hindi) 3851 66 ( 14 ) Jugal Productions, Jugal Kishore , Bom - 
( 35 mm ) ( India ). 

Hind Rajasthan Bldg . bay - 14 . 
Dadar, Main Road 

Bombay -14 , 
Endorsement : 
Original length : 3856 . 23m . 
Reel IV - a ) Reduce close shots of Shagufa in scanty dress making hip -movements 

before performing the song " Is ada se salam lete hain . . . . . . " (Re. 
placed with approved shots : 2 . 13m .) 

( Length retained : 1 .52m ) . 
(6 ) Delete the shot showing Vinod holding Shagufa in close embrace and 

trying to kiss her before dancing with her. 
Reel V - a ) Delete the words " Gagra to uthao " as spoken by the tailore to Bindu 

while taking her measurements , and view of her thigh which she exposes 

at his insistance : 1 .83m . 
(b ) Reduce to bare minimum view of Bindu s back as shemoves away from 

Vinod in the dinner scene : 2 . 74m . 

(Length retained : 0 . 91m ) 
Reel X - Delete the shot showing Vinod rolling over Bindu during their Duet " Tum 

mile dard gaya ” also reducing later shot showing him holding and moving 
her hips. - - 2 . 74m . 

(Replaced with approved shots : 2 .74m - ) 
Length of deletions : 9 .44m . 
Length of approved replacements : 4 . 871n . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3851 •66m 


U 
59488 With triangle mark . 


B /58233 


Trailer of “ Nateeja " 
( Hindi) (35 min ) 
( India ). 


87 . 78 ( 1 ) Jugal Productions , Jugal Kishore Sharma, 

Hind Rajasthan Bldg. Bombay - 14 , 
Dadar, Main Road 
Bombay -14 . 


17 - 11 -69 


Endorsement : 
Original length : 87 . 78m . 

Delete the shot of Vinod rolling over Bindu while singing.- - 2 .31m . 

(Replaced with approved shots : 2 . 13m .) 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations remains unaltered . 


U 


B /58293 


283 .00 ( 1 ) 


59489 


“ Mother And Child " 
(English ) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ). 


Film Institute of India , Film Institute of India , 
Law College Road Poona - 4 . 
Poona - 4 . 


17 - 11 -69 


U 


B /58292 


241 - 00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do , 


59490 


Water Your Friend " 
(English ) (35 mm ) 
( India ) . 


17- 11 -69 


A 


PART III - SEC . 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1773 


- 


- 


- 


w 


- 


F 


2 sa 


S 


U 


B /58261 . 


62 


“ Year Round Fitness " 
(Colour ) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ) . 


30 - 48 ( 1 ) Kantilal Rathod , Akar Kantilal Rathod , Bom - 

Films, Bhulabhai Ins. bay - 20 . 
titute , 89 B . Desai 
Road , Bombay - 20 . 


59491 Valid for Hindi, and 

- Bengali versions . 
18 - 11-69 


U 


B / 56738 


Danon , 


59492 


With triangle mark . 


Trailer of “ Diaboli 
cally Yours " (Colour) 
( English ) (35 mm ) 
( France ) 


76 .45 (1) Paramount Films of Raymond 

India Ltd . Hague ( France ) . 
Bldg. Sprott Road 
Bombay . 


18 - 11 -69 


Endorsement : 


Original length : 90 ·83m . 

1. Delete the view of Christiane in semi-nude state with a mere scarf over her posteriors. - -1 .62m . 
2 . Delete the shot showing Campo jumping over Christiane and trying to kiss her forcibly along with her words 

“ What are you going to do - rape me" and the subsequent scene showing Campo jumping over her in bed and 

trying to kiss her forcibly .- 10 . 32m . 
3. Reduce to bare minimum Frederic mercilessly beating Christiane. - 2 .44m . 
(Length retained : 1 .80) 
Length of deletions : 14 .38m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 76 . 45m . 

U 
Trailer of " Skidoo " 68 . 94 (1 ) Paramount Films of Otto Preminger, 59493 With triangle mark , 
( Panavision ) ( Colour ) 

India , Ltd . Hague ( U . S . A .) 
(English ) (35 mm ) Bldg. Sprott Road 

18 -11 -69 
(USA ) . 

Bombay . 


B /57322 


Endorsement : 
Original length : 72 :54m . 

1. Delete the shot of a nude girl being painted .- 1 . 52m . 
2 . Delete the shots of the thin black girl with bare back. – 2 .08m . 
Length of deletion : 3 •60m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be – 68 .94m . 


B / 58101 


4545 •74 (18 ) 


Films, 


59494 With triangle mark . 


“ Do Raaste” (Colour ) 
(Hindi) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ) . 


Raj Khosla Films, Raj Khosla 
Mehboob Studios, Bombay -50 . 
Hill Road Bandra , 
Bombay - 50 , 


18 - 11 -69 


Endorsement 


Original length : 4550 . 00m . 
Reel - - From the duet Chhup gaye saare nazare ." . . . . . delete the shot showing Satyen pulling Rena over himself , 

while rolling along with her on the ground and their later shot wherein he moves his hand over calves and things . 

4 . 11m . (Replaced with approved shots : 1 .37m ) . 
Reel VIII- Delete the shot of Viju during his scene with Neela pressing his lips over her face preceding her words 

‘Kya ham alag nahin reh sakte " ? - 1 ·52m . 
Reel XI _ Delete the close shots ( 3rd and 4th ) of the female dancer in scanty dress performing at the club as she archs 

her body with face down to audience and subsequently exposes her navel, lifting the diaphanous scarf above 

her torso and covering her face . -. - 8 . 22m . (Replaced with approved shots : 8 22m .) 
Length of deletions : 13 - 85m . 
Length of approved replacements - 9 .59m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : - 4545 -74m . 

U 
" A Family Friend" 30 .48 ( 1) Jaisons Advertising, Short Prints, Clo 59495 
(Colour ) (English ) 

Khar , Bombay - 52. Basant Studios , 
(35 mm ) ( India ) 

Chember , Bombay -74 18 - 11- 69 


B / 58284 


30 .48 ( 1) 


Do . 


59496 


B / 58287 

90 


" Daylong 
(Colour) 
( India ). 


Freshness" 
(35 mm ) 


Jaisons Advertising, 
Khar, Bombay -52 . 


18 - 11-69 


Valid for English , 
Tamil , Malayalam . 
& Kannada ver 
sions . 


- - 


- 


- 


TML 


--- 


1774 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


(PART III — SEC . A 


11 


1 


1 


Ő7 


2 


6 


B /57724 


B . B .C . Tv (Pault Elis) 
( U . K . ) 


59497 


“ Management Tech 
niques (Film No. 5 ) 
Investment Planning" 
( English ) (16 mm ) 
(U . K .) 


335 .57 (1) National Education & 

Information Films 
Ltd . National House , 
Tulloch Road Bom 
bay . 


18 - 11 -69 


B /57723 


335 . 57 ( 1) 


Do. 


U 
59498 


Do , 


" Managernent Tech 
niques ( Film No . 4 ) 
Controlling Stocks" 
( English ) ( 16 mm ) 
(U . K .) 


18 - 11 -69 


B /58285 


U 
59499 


" All Time Healer " 
(Colour ) ( English ) 
( 35 mm ) ( India ) . 


30 . 48 ( 1) Jaisons Advertising, Short Prints , C /o Ba- 
Khar, Bombay -52 . sant Studios Chem 

ber , Bombay - 74 . 


18 - 11 - 69 


U 


B /58049 


59500 


“ B A /013 ( Breathing ) " 
( Silent) (Col. ) (8 mm ) 
( U . K .) 


14 .33 ( 1) Macmillan & Co . Ltd . ICEM London , ( U . K .) 

276 , Honyby Road , 
Bombay . 


19 - 11 -69 

U 
59501 


B /58001 


18 . 19 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


“ C / B / 10 (Chevson 
Stitch ) (Col) (Silent) 
(8 mm ) ( U . K .) 


B / 58028 


20 .73 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


" C / B /8 (Pekinese 
(Stitch ( Col.) (Silent) 
(8 mm ) ( U . K . ) 


19 - 11 -69 

U 
59502 
19 -11-69 

U 
59503 


B /58007 


7 . 92( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


“ P MOGO (Longitu 
dinal Waves ) ( Col.) 
(Silent) (8mm ) (U . K .) 


19 - 11 -69 

U 
59504 


B / 58000 


14 .33(1) 


Do . 


Do . 


“ P M 150 ( The Lift 
Pump) ( Silent) (Col.) 
( 8 mm ) ( U . K .) 


19 - 11 -69 

U 
59505 


B /57993 


8 .53 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


“ PM 148 ( The Col 
lapse Of An Evacua 
led Can ) (Col.) ( Silent) 
(8 mm ) (U . K .) 


19 - 11 -69 


U 


B / 58036 


9 . 14 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


59506 


" S P / M /1 ( Energy and 

The Pendulum ) (Si 
lent) (Col. ) (8 mm ) 
(U .K .) 


19 - 11- 69 


B /58002 


16 .46(1) 


U 
59507 


Do . 


Do . 


“ C / B /11 (Magic Chain 
Stitch )” ( Silent) 
(8 mm ) ( U . K . ) 


19 - 11 - 69 


U 


B /58031 


11 .89 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


59508 


M 


“ P A 026 (Alpha Par 
ticles )” ( Col.) (Silent) 
(8 mm ) ( U .K . ) 


19 - 11- 69 


U 


B / 58034 


9 .45 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


59509 


" S P / M / 3 (Uniform 
Velocity ) (Colour ) 
(Silent) (8 mm ) ( U . K .) 


19 - 11-69 

U 
59510 With triangle mark . 


B / 57802 


- 


" Alfred The Great" 
(Cinemascope ) (Col.) 
( English ) (35 mm ) 
( U . S . A .) 


3371 -74 (14 ) Metro Goldwyn Mayer Metro Goldwyn Ma 

India Ltd . Metroyer (U .S . A .) 
House , M .G . Road 
Bombay . 


19 - 11 -69 


Endorsement 
Original length : 3390 - 59m . 
Reel IV ( 2B )- - Delete the undermentioned words as spoken by Alfred during a scene with Aelhs with in the course of 

interpreting the Bible to her “ When two lovers to their private couch , no poet is needed behind the bolted door. 
Without his aid , words will be grasped . Hands will not lie idle on the beds fingers find their uses in those parts 

love sets fire to . -- 18 .85m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be : - 3371 - 74m . 

U 
Trailer of " Anmol 90 .83 ( 1) S . D , Narang , Proprie - S. D . Narang, Proprie- 59511 
Moti" (Col.) (Hindus 

tor, New Oriental Pic - tor, New Oriental Pica 
tani) ( 35 mm ) (India ) 

tures, 150 , Famous tures, Bombay - 11. 19 - 11 -69 
Cine Bldg . Maha 
laxmi, Bombay -11. 


B / 58265 


Part III - SEC . 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1775 


3 


6 


B /58300 


59512 


“ Mahitichitra No. 115" 
(Gujarati) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ). 


249 . 94 ( 1 ) Director of Informa- Director of Informa 

tion , Govt. ofGujarat tion , Govt. of Guja 
Sachivalya , Ahmeda - rat, Ahmedabad - 15 . 
bad - 15 . 


19 - 11-69 


B / 58272 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1102 ” ( 35 mm ) 
( India ). 


203 .00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 , Peddar of India Bombay -26 . 
Road Bombay- 26 . 


Valid for 14 ver 
sions . 


U 
59513 

- - 
19 - 11-69 

U 
59514 


B / 58276 


" State Visit To Japan 
of Her Excellency 
Shrimati Indira " 


298 70 ( 1) Consulate General of Kyodo Television 

Japan , Kashmir House , New Ltd . (Japan ) 
19 , Nepean Sea Road 
Bombay -6 . 


19 - 11 -69 


B /58275 


365 -76 ( 1) 


U 
59515 


Do . 


Koga Productions Inc . 

Japan . 


" Nature s 

Flowers 
Japanese " 
( English ) 
(Japan ). 


Bounty : 
For The 

(Colour) 
(16 mm ) 


19 - 11-69 


U 


B /58145 


59516 


Trailer of “ Ben -Hur ” 
(Colour) ( English ) 
( 35 mm ) ( U . S . A .) 


81 .07 ( 1 ) Metro Goldwyn Mayer Metro Goldwyn Mayer 

India Ltd , Metro ( U . S . A . ) 
House , M . G . Road 
Bombay . 


19 - 11-69 


B / 58268 


59517 


" Office Work Opera 
tions Sam NCE (6302 
Series Sam ) (Rating 
Film ) (Silent) ( 16 mm ) 
(U .S . A .) 


19 -11-69 


487 .68 (4 ) National Productivity Sam Rating Films 

Council , Novelty Committee Under 
Chembers , 7th Floor Agency Newyork 
Grant Road Bom College of Engineer 
bay - 7 . 

ing Research Founda 
tion , ( U . S . A .) 


U 
59518 


B / 58059 


SP / M / 5 (Force Mass 
And Acceleration 
(Silent) (8 mm ) (U . K .) 


15•24 (1) Macmillan & Co . Ltd . ICEM London , ( U . K .) 

276 , Honyby Road , 
Bombay. 


19 - 11-69 

U 
59519 


B / 58051 


10 - 97 (1) 


Do . 


SP / H /8 (Vapour Pres 
sure And Tempera 
ture) ( Col. ) (Silent) 
(8 mm ) ( U . K . ) 


19 - 11 - 69 


B /58004 


13 .11(1) 


U 
59520 


Do. 


BA /007 ( The Heart In 
Action ) (Col.) ( Silent) 
(8 mm ) ( U . K .) 


19 - 11-69 


B /57991 


14 . 94 ( 1) 


Do. 


59521 


" C / B / 4 ( Stem Stitch ) " 
(Col.) (Silent) ( 8 mm ) 
U . K .) 


19- 11 -69 


U 
59522 


B /57990 


17 .98 (1 ) 


Do . 


" C /B /3 (Coral Knot 
Stitch ) " (Col.) (Silent) 
(8 mm ) (U . K .) 


19 - 11 -69 


B /57599 


Kohli , 


59523 With triangle mark . 


" Shart" ( Col.) (Hindi) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


389719 ( 17 ) Rajkumar Kohli, Rajkumar 

Shankar Movies, 227 Bombay - 11 . 
Famous Cine Bldg . 
Bombay - 11 . 


19 -11-69 


Endorsement 
Original length : 3921 •27m . 
Reel V - In the picturisation of the song beginning with the words " Tu kaun hai tu kaun hai . . . . " delete the promi 

nent views of the wriggling of dancer s hip portion from the front and back . - 5 .49m . (Replaced with approved 

shots : 5 .49m ). 
Reel VII - Reduce drastically the shots of Johnny massaging a girl keeping merely the last portion where his fingers 

are on her feet . Delete the accompanying dialogues reading as under “ Johnny at Johnny ghanti , bajati" . 
" Bajanewali cheez to bajna hai mangta " . 

upto “ Hamari ghanti to use dinse bajati hai jabse tumko dekha hai” . - 11 .58m . 
(Length retained : 162 . 15m .) 
Ree XVI & XVII - - Reduce the fight between Raj and the man with iron fist and fight in the car as also on the bridge. 

— 12 - 50m . (Length retained : Reel XVI : 89 .61 and Reel XVII : 41 .76m .) 
Length of deletions . - 29 57m . 
Length of approved replacements ; 5 . 49m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : — 3897 - 19 . m 


1776 


THE GAZETTE OF INDİA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) (PART III — SEC . 1 


ARAN 


1 


B /58006 


U 
59524 


C / B /2 (Chain Stitch ) 
(Col. ) (Silent) (8 mm ) 
( U . K .) 


18 . 29 (1) Macmillan & co . Ltd . ICEM London , ( U .K . ) 

276 , Honyby Road 
Bombay . 


20 - 11 -69 


B / 58054 


14 .02 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


59525 


PA /028 ( Thompson s 
Positive Ray Para 
bolas ) (Col.) (Silent) 
(8 mm ) ( U . K .) 


20 - 11 - 69 


B /58003 


20 . 12 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


U 
59526 


C / B / 12 (Oversewing ) 
(Col.) (Silent) (8 mm ) 
( U . K . ) 


20 - 11 -69 

U 
59527 


B /58029 


13 .41 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


C / B /9 (Herringbone 
Stiich ) (Col. ) (Silent) 
( 8 mm ) ( U .K .) 


20 - 11 -69 


U 


B /57996 


17 .98 (1) 


Do . 


59528 


C / B / 1 (Running Stitch 
On Binca Canvas 
(Col.) (Silent ) ( 8 mm ) 
( U . K . ) 


20 - 11 -69 


B /58046 


13 . 72 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


SP /M /11 (Bernoulli s 

Theorem ) (Colour ) 
( Silent) ( 8 mm ) ( U . K .) 


U 
59529 


20 - 11 - 69 


B /58035 


14 .94 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


59530 


SP / M /2 (Momentum 
And The Pendulum 
(Col. ) (Silent) (8 mm ) 
( U . K .) 


20 - 11 -69 


B /58025 


12 . 50 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do , 


C / B /5 (Blanket Stitch ) 
(Col.) (Silent) (8 mm ) 
( U .K .) 


59531 


20 -11 -69 


B /58058 


U 


19 . 20 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


DO 


SP /M /6 (Motion At 
Right Angles) (Col.) 
(Silent) (8 mm ) (U . K . ) 


59532 


20 - 11- 69 


B / 58033 


17 .68 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do , 


SP /M / 4 (Uniform 
Acceleration ) (Col.) 
(Silent) (8 mm ) ( U . K . ) 


59533 


20 - 11 - 69 


B /58057 


19 - 20 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


SP / M / 7 (Motion In A 
Circle Part I ) ( Col.) 
(Silent) (8 mm ) (U . K .) 


59534 


20 - 11 - 69 


B /58048 


12 •80 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


SP / M /8 (Motion In A 
Circle Part II) (Col.) 
(Silent) ( 8 mm ) ( U . K .) 


59535 


20 - 11 -69 


B / 58027 


16 -46 (1) 


Do . 


DO 


C / B / T (Single Fly 
Stitch ) ( Col. ) (Silent) 
(8 mm ) (U . K .) 


59536 


20 - 11-69 


B /58026 


19 .81( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do , 


C /B /61 (Couching 
(Silent) (Col.) (8 mm ) 
(U .K .) 


59537 


B /57986 


20 - 11 -69 

U 
59538 


19 .81(1 ) 


Do . 


SP / M / 12 (Standing 
Waves ) ( Col.) (Silent) 
(8 mm ) ( U .K . ) 


Do , 


20 - 11 -69 


B / 58056 


7 .01 (1) 


Do . 


PH / 164 ( Regelation ) 
( Col. (Silent) (8 mm ) 
(U . K . ) 


59539 


20 - 11 -69 


B / 58060 


16 . 15 ( 1) 


Do , 


Do . 


59540 


SP / H / 9 (Vapour Pres 
sure And Boiling ) 
( Col. ) ( Silent) ( 8 mm ) 
(UK ) 


20 -11 -69 


B /58019 


17 - 07(1) 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


PE / S / 3 (Swimming 
The Breaststroke (Si 
lent) (8 mm ) ( U . K . ) 


59541 


20 - 11 -69 


PART III - SEC. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1777 


LUNUN 


M 


1 


EN 


B / 58024 


59542 


PE 208 ( The Micro 
metermetric (Col.) 
(Silent) (8 mm ) ( U . K .) 


14 .02(1) Macmillan & Co. Ltd . ICEM London , (U .K .) 

276 , Honyby Road , 
Bombay . 


20 - 11 -69 


B / 58005 


20 . 12 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


59543 


PE /S / 1 ( Teaching 
Beginners) (Silent ) 
(8 mm ) ( U . K .) 


20 - 11 -69 


U 


B /58020 


13 .72 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


59544 


PE / S /4 (Learning The 
Front Crawl) (Silent ) 
(8 mm ) ( U . K . ) 


20 - 11 -69 


B /58046 


8 .84 ( 1) 


U 
59545 


Do . 


SP /M / 10 (Bernoulli s 
Theorem Aerofioil In 
A Wind Tunnel) 
(Col. (Silent) ( 8 mm ) 
(U .K .) 


20 - 11 - 69 


B /58322 


Kohli , 


59546 


Trailer of “ Shart” 
(Colour) (Hindi) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


80 -47 ( 1) Rajkumar Kohli , Rajkumar 

Shankar Movies , 227 , Bombay -11 . 
Famous Cine Bldg . 
Bombay- 11 . 


20 - 11 -69 


U 


B /58234 


59547 


" Star" (Col.) (English ) 
(70 mm (U .S . A . ) 


5213 •00 ( 24) 20th Century Fox Corp Saul Chaplin , (U .S.A .) 

(1 ) Pvt. Ltd . Metro 
House , M . G . Road 
Bombay . 


20 -11-69 


B /58239 


109 .(1) 


Do. 


Do . 


59548 


Trailer of " Star " (Col.) 
(English ) ( 35 mm ) 
(U . S .A .) 


20 - 11 -69 


B /57820 


59549 


" A Time To Sing " 
(Cinemascope ) (Col.) 
(English ) ( 35 mm ) 
U . S .A .) 


2530 14 (10 ) Metro Goldwyn .Mayer Metro Goldwyn Ma 

India Ltd . Metro yer , (U . S . A .) 
House , M .G . Road 
Bombay . 


20 - 11 -69 


B /57821 


55 .77 (1 ) 


U 
59550 


Do . 


Do . 


Trailer of " A Time To 
Sing " (Cinemascope) 
( Col.) (English ) 


20 - 11 -69 


U 
59551 


B /58061 


PM / 158 (Air Occupies 
Space ) (Silent) (8 mm ) 
( U . K . ) 


8 .23 (1 ) Macmillan & Co . Ltd . ICEM London , ( U . K .) 

276 , Honyby Road , 
Bombay . 


21 - 11 -69 


B /58014 


6 .40 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


PM )002 ( The Sine 
Wave (Silent) (8 mm ) 
( U . K . ) 


59552 
21-11-69 


B / 58015 


7 . 32 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


59553 


PM /014 ( Transverse 
Waves) ( Silent) 
(8 mm ) ( U . K . ) 


21- 11-69 


B /57984 


12 .19( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


59554 


So 


SP /H /3 (The Reflection 
Of Radiation ) (Silent) 
(Col.) (8 mm ) (U . K .) 


Do. 


er den 


12.190) 


21 - 11 -69 


B /58013 


8 . 23 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


59555 


PM /001 (Simple Har 
monic Motion ) ( Silent) 
(8 mm ) (U .K .) 


21 -11 -69 


B /57995 


15 . 54 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


59556 


PM /149 ( The Syphon ) 
(Silent.) (Col) ( 8 mm ) 
( U .K .) 


21- 11 -69 


B /57422 


7-62(1) 


7 . 62 ( 1) 


Do . 


U 
59557 


Do. 


Do , 


PM / 166 Pressure 2 

(Simple Kinetic Theo 
ry ) ( Silent ) (Col.) 
(8 mm ) (U . K .) 


21- 11 -69 


. 


1778 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892 ) [PART III — -SEC . # 


w 


ILMU 


- 


UMN 
VW 


- 


- 


- 


WV 


VE 


234 


4 


U 
59558 


B / 58299 


" Contac 12 ” (Colour ) 
( English ) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


28 . 96 (1) Ama Private Ltd ., Ama Private Ltd ., 

Canada Bldg ., D . N . Bombay . 
Road , Bombay . 


B /57813 


" Baba” 
( India ). 


( 35 mm ) 


422 . 45 ( 2 ) Films Division , Govt, Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 , Peddar of India , Bombay - 26 . 
Road , Bombay - 26 . 


21- 11-69 

U 
59559 Valid for 

- - sions . 
21- 11 - 69 


14 ver 


U 


B / 58321 


131 . 06 ( 1) 


59560 


" Polypick 1000 — (Part 

C ) " (Col.) (English ) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


K . V . M . Productions, K . K . Mohala , Bom 

D 7 /B , Bhadran bay -64 . 
Nagar ,Malad (West ), 
Bombay -64 , 


21- 11 -69 


U 


B /58319 


38 . 10 (1) 


Do. 


Do. 


Do , 


59561 


“ Polypick 1000 (Part 
B ) (Col.) (English 
& Hindi) (35 mm ) 
( India ). 


21- 11 -69 


U 


B / 58317 


38 . 10 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


59562 


“ Polypick 1000 ( Part 

A )" (Col.) (English 
& Hindi) (35 mm ) 
(India ) . 


21 - 11 -69 


B /58197 


Fczter , 


U 
59563 


“ The Science Report 

94 B ” (English ) ( 16 
mm ) ( U . S. A .) 


145 . 70 (1) U . S. Information Ser - Robert 

vica, Fazal Bhoy ( U . S . A .) 
House , Marine Lines , 
Bombay . 


21 - 11 -69 


B /58267 


158 -80( 1) 


Do. 


U 
59564 


Do . 


“ The Science Report 

95 - A " ( English ) ° (16 
mm ) (U . S . A .) 


21 - 11 -69 


U 


B / 57395 


“ Sathe Biscuits & 
Chocolates” ( Cricket ) 
(35 mm ) (India ) 


29 . 57 ( 1) Ram Gabale Produc - Ram Gabale Produc - 

tions, Neelima, 2072 , tions, Poona -9 . 
Vijaya Nagar, Colo 
ny, Poona - 9 . 


59565 Valid for Hindi, 

-- - English , Tamil , & 
21 - 11 -69 Kannada versions . 


B / 58280 


30 . 18 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


59566 
- 
21- 11- 69 


Valid for Hindi, Eng 

fish , Marathi, 
Gujarati versions. 


" Sathe Biscuits & 

Chocolates " (Col.) 
(Kabbadi) (35 mm ) 

(India ). 
" Safety And Solvents " 

(Col.) (English ) (16 
mm ) ( U . K . ) 


B / 58212 


B /58240 


" Pythagoras Theorem : 
Part Two " ( English ) 
( 16 mm ) (England ) . 


U 
192 . 2 (1) Executive Director A Chemidiv Produc 59567 

National Safety tions, (U . K .) 
Council . 

21 -11 -69 

U 
72 . 90 ( 1 ) Educational Films of Gateway Film Produc- 59568 

India , Division of tions in collaboration 
Film Library Pvt . with zoro films of 21 - 11 -69 
Ltd , Kitab Mahal , Yuguslavia , ( Eng 
190 , D . N . Road , Bom land ) . 
bay - 1 . 

U 
70 . 85 (1 ) Do. 

Do. 

59569 


B / 58241 


" Pythagoras Theorem : 
Tirt One " (English ) 
( 15 mm ) ( England ). 


21- 11 - 69 


B /55538 


59570 


" Glimpses of An 
Eventful Life" (Col.) 
( English ) ( 16 mm ) 
(U . S .S . R .) 


310 . 00 (1 ) U . S . S. R . Consulate Central Documentary 
General, 40 Nepean Film 

Studio , 
Sea Road , Bombay . ( U . S .S .R .) 


21- 11-69 


B / 58041 


59571 


PE /S / 8 ( Learning The 
Butterfly ) (Silent) 
(8 mm ) ( U . K . ) 


12 . 80 ( 1 ) Macmillan & Co . Ltd . ICEM London , ( U . 

276 , Honyby Road , 
Bombay . 


21- 11 -69 

U 
59572 


B / 58042 


18 . 90( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


PE /S /9 (Swimming 

The Butterfly ) ( Silent) 
(8 mm ) ( U . K .) 


21 - 11 -69 

U 
59573 


B /58012 


6 .71( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do, 


PM /170 ( The Force 
Pump) ( Col .) ( Silent) 
(8 mm ) ( U . K .) 


21- 11 - 69 

U 
59574 


B / 58062 


12 -80 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


PM /162 ( Air Has 
Weight) (Silent) 
(8 mm ) ( U . K .) 


21 - 11 -69 


. 


PART III - SBC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1779 


vo 


3 


seh 


m 


B / 57994 


1 


B /56737 


U 
PM /163 ( The Magde- 11. 28( 1) Macmillan & Co . Ltd . ICEM London , (U . K .) 59575 
burg Hemisphere ) 

276 , Honyby Road , 
(Silent) (8 mm ) (U . K .) Bombay . 

21 -11-69 
“ Diabolically Yours" 2544 . 10 ( 10) Paramount Films of Raymond Danon , 2627 With triangle mark . 
(Col.) (English ) 

India Ltd . , Hague ( France ). 
( 35 mm ) ( France ). Bldg. , Sprott Road , 

18 - 11 -69 
Bombay. 
Endorsement - 
Original length : 2561- 84m . 
Reels Nos. II , III, IV , & VIII - Delete Campo calling his Chinese male servant by the names Mao- tse-tung , Chairman 

Mao , and Mao - 6 . 46m . 
Reel III - Reduce drastically the scene showing Kiem massaging Christiane shown lying with a mere scarf over her 

posteriors, particularly deleting from the point when Kiem pushes the scarf down again when he massages her 

legs upwards and looks over her figure . - 11 . 28m . 
(Length retained : 8 . 00m .) 
Length of deletions :- 17 . 74m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 2544 . 10m . 


ENDORSEMENTS 

ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 
B /56501 

Film : “ The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie ” (English ) ( Col.) 
A - 2623 , dt. 16 -10 -69 

Delete the following dialogues : 
Reel II - Jenny : They have sexual intercourse . 

Sandy : Oh, I don t like to think about it . 

Jenny : You don t have to think about it . It happens on the spur of the moment . 
Reel III - - Jenny : You lead . 

Sandy : How do you know ? 
Jenny : Know what ? 
Sandy : What you were saying .. . about that sexual intercourse happens on the spur of the moment , 
Jenny : Because it happened to Teenie that works in my father s shop . . . . when she was out walking at 

Puddocky with her boy friend . They had to get married . 
Sandy : You d think that the urge would have passed by the time they d got their clothes off . 
Jenny : Yes, that s what I can t understand . If people take their clothes off in front of each other, it s 

so rude ! They re bound to be put off their passion . 
Total cut - -33 - 22m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3115 . 42m . 

The Certificate was endorsed on 17th November 1969. 
B / 57034 

Film : “ Khamoshi” (Hindi) 
U - 57775 , dt. 11 - 7 -69 
Reel XIII- Delete one shot showing Wahida crying near the door. - 14 . 63m . 
Reel XIII – Addition of scene between Rajesh and Wahida and subsequent dialogues " Main Radha ke thik hone tak 

rah dekhoonga ” is approved .- 25 . 30m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3504 . 90m . 

The certificate was endorsed on 18th November 1969 , 
B442445 

Film : “ View and Teach : Conversation with the Black Board " (English ) . 
U -43795% dt . 20-1 - 65 


CORRECTION 
Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 . 00m . instead of 152 . 4m . 

The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969 . 
B /42442 

Film : “ View and Teach : Teaching A New Pattern ” (Eng .) 
U -43792 dt. 20 - 1-65 
Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165. 00m . instead of 152 .4m . 

The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969 . 
229G1/70 - 12 


1 


1780 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


(PART III - SEC . A 


EL 


B /42443 

Film : " View and Teach : Sentence Patterns" ( Eng .) 
U - 43793 dt. 20 - 1- 65 
Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 . 00 m , instead of 152 . 4 m . 

The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969. 
B / 42440 

Film : " View and Teach : Question and Answer " (English ). 
U -43790 dt. 20 -1 -65 
Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 . 00 m . instead of 152 . 4 m . 

The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969 . 
B / 57600 

Film : " The Giver And The Taker " (English ). 
U - 59214 dt. 25-9 -69 . 
Name of the applicant on the reverse of the certificate may be read as " Director of Information , Govt, of Gujarat" , 

instead of " Prakash Arora " . 
The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969 
B /48896 

Film : " View and Teach No. 16 : Ask Him How Old He Is . (English ) 
U -49725 dt. 2 - 2 -67 . 
Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 131 . 00 m . instead of 167 . 64 m . 

The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969. 
B /48800 

Film : “ View and Teach No . 20 : Group Conversation ” (English ) 
U - 49719 dt . 2 - 2 - 67 
Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 137 . 00 m . instead of 167 .64 m . 

The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969 . 
B /42444 

Film : “ View and Teach : Acting A Story ” ( English ) 
U - 43794 dt. 20 - 1-65 
Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 .00 m . instead of 152 . 4 m . 

The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969 . 
B /42465 

Film : " View and Teach : Planning Oral Work ” (English ) 
U - 43796 dt. 20 - 1-65 
Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 . 00 m . instead of 152 . 4 m . 

The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969 . 
B / 42435 

Film : " View and Teach : Practice With Picture Sets ” ( English ) 
U - 43785 dt. 20 -1 -65 
Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 . 00 m . instead of 152 . 4 m . 
The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969 . 


CALCUTTA 


C /6462 


Paschimbanga Sarka 
rer Sambad Chitra - 4 
( Bengali ) (33 mm ) 
(India ). 


304 . 80 ( 1 ) Little Cinema (Cal- Little Cinema (Cal. 

cutta ) Private Ltd . , cutta ) Private Ltd ., 
9 / 1, Lovelock Place , 9 / 1 , Lovelock Place , 
Calcutta - 19 . 

Calcutta - 19. 


58455 
- - 
20 - 11 -69 


C/ 6458 


Aaram ( Col. ) (Hindi) 
( 35 mm ) ( India ) 


91 . 44 ( 1) 


58456 


Screen & Publicities , Screen & Publicities, 
6 - A , Saklat Place , 6 - A , Saklat Place , 
Calcutta - 13 . ) 

Calcutta - 13 . 


20 - 11- 69 


C /6459 


91 . 44 ( 1 ) 


Aaram (Col. ) (Assa 
mese ) (35 mm ) ( India ) 


Do. 


Do . 


58457 


20 - 11 - 69 

U 
58458 


C /6460 


Babadur ( Col.) (Hindi) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


158 . 49 (1 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


20 - 11-69 


C /6461 


158 . 49 (1 ) 


Do . 


Babadur (Col.) ( Assa - 
mese) (35 mm ) ( India ) 


58459 


20 - 11- 69 


Ah 


PART III - Sec . 4) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1781 


M 


- ao 


3 


6 


U 


C -6446 


58460 


Amege (Col.) (Bengali ) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


94 . 00 ( 1 ) Ajit Das Production , Ajit Das Production , 

47 - A , Gariahat Road , 47 - A , Gariahat Road , 
Calcutta - 19 . 

Calcutta - 19 . 


21- 11 - 69 


C /6457 


Alpana (Bengali 
( 35 mm ) (India ) . 


32 . 00 ( 1) 


58461 


Chalachitralaya , 4 / 30 , Chalachitralaya , 4 /30 , 
Chanditala Lane , Chanditala Lane , 
Calcutta - 40 . 

Calcutta - 40 . 


21- 11 -69 


U 


C /6447 


58462 


The Right Combina 
tion (Col. ) (English ) 
( 16 mm ) (U . S . A .) 


217 . 93(1) Machine Tools (I) Pri- Kearney & Trecker 

vate Ltd ., Russell Corporation , U . S . A . 
Street , Calcutta- 16 . 

MADRAS 


21- 11 -69 


M /5780 


U 
65008 


" Sambarala Rambabu 
( Telugu ) (35 mm ) 
( B & W ) (India ). 


4849 . 36 ( 18 ) Sri Ramana Chitra , Sri Ramana Chitra , 

No. 1 , Nagarjuna No . 1, Nagarjuna 
Nagar , Madras- 24 . Nagar, Madras-24 . 


17 - 11-69 


M /5786 


65009 


Trailer of “ Vedalam 
Sonna Kathai" 
( Tamil ) (35 mm ) 
B & W ) (India ). 


100 . 58 ( 1 ) Manorama Movies , Manorama Movies, 

2 /1 -B , Eldars Road , 2 /1 - B , Eldams Road , 
Madras- 18 . 

Madras- 18 . 


18 -11-69 


M /5784 


“ Danger Biscuit " 3743 . 42 ( 14 ) Jai Maruthy Produc . Jai Maruthy Produc - 65010 With triangle mark . 
(Malayalam ) ( 35 mm ) 

tions, Gopalakrishna tions, Gopalakrishna 
( B & W ) (India ). 

Road , Madras- 17 . Road ,Madras- 17. 19 - 11- 69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 65010 - U dated 19th November 1969 issued to the film “ Dan ger Biscuit” (Malaya 

| lam). 

Length as in the application . - - 3728 . 63 m . 
Cuts 

Metres 
1 . Reels 3 & 13- The impostor who acts as police - sub - inspector , gives the impression 

that he is a real sub- inspector of police operating in a police - station 
premises. In Reel 14 - When he is exposed as an impostor, the dia 
logue should be revised and enlarged to clarify the correct position 
that the place from where he operated was not a real police station 

where any outsider can have access. (Addition approved 15 .24 Metres). 
2 . Reel 10Delete the shot showing the nurse (Gracy ) when climbing up the ladder 

on the boat, exposing her thighs with the frock flying up . . . . 0 . 45 
3. Reel 11 - While singing song 7, delete all close-up shots of two girls who bring 

coconuts, making indecorous movements, shaking their breasts , 
showing their breasts prominently with their hands apart, and making 
quivering motions with their breasts and stomach . (approved replace 
ment 14 . 32 ) 

. . . . . . . . . 14 : 32 


Total cuts 


14 . 77 


Actual length of the film after cuts and approved replacements will be 3743 .42 m . in 14 Reels . 
Particulars of films certified or refused certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week -ending 

29th November , 1969 


BOMBAY 


B / 58110 


Robert 
(U . S . A .). 


Goldstein , 


59576 


“ The Good Guys 
And The Bad Guys" 
( Panavision ) (Col.) 
( English ) ( 35 mm .) 
(U .S . A .). 


2469 . 18 (10) Warner Bros. Seven 

Arts ( F . E .) Inc . 
Eros Bldg., Church 
gate , Bombay. 


24 - 11 - 69 


U 


B /58111 


93 •88(1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


3951 


59577 


- 


Trailer of " The Good 
Guys And The Bad 
Guys " 

( Col.) 
(English ) (35 mm .) 
(U . S .A .) . 


24 - 11 -69 


B /58269 


U 
59578 


Trailer of “ Pendulum " 

(Col.) (English ) ( 35 
mm .) (U .S . A . ) . 


6736 (1) Columbia Films of Stanley Niss , (U .S . A .) 

India Ltd . , Metro 
House , M . G . Rd., 
Bombay . 


24 - 11-69 


B /58052 


59579 


SP / H /6 ( The Critical 

Temperature Of 
Sulphur Dioxide) 
(Col.) (Silent) ( 8 mm ) 
(U . K .). 


10 . 97 (1) Macmillan & Co . Ltd ., ICEM London , (U . K .) 

276 , Honyby Rd., 
Bombay. 


24 - 11 -69 


LL 


Fry 


1782 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


Fy 


[PART III - SEC . 4 


IL 


GRAMMM 


w 


M 


um 


LAN 


2 


6 


B /58053 


SP / H /5 ( The Mechani 
cal Equivalent Of 
Heat) (Silent) (Col.) 
(8 mm .) ( U . K .). 


18 .59( 1) Macmillan & Co . Ltd . , ICEM London , (U . K .) 

276 , Honyby Rd . , 
Bombuy . 


59580 
24- 11 -69 


B /58148 


59581 


MA 


" Hook Line And 
Sinker " 

( Col.) 
(English ) (35 mm .) 
( U . S . A .). 


2514 .90 ( 5 ) Columbia Films of Jerry Lewis , ( U . S . A .) 

India Ltd ., Metro 
House , M . G . Rd ., 
Bombay . 


25 - 11 - 69 


B / 58270 


77 .42 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


59582 


Trailer of " Hook Line 
And Sinker " (Col. ) 
(English ) (35 mm .) 
( U . S . A . ). 


25 - 11 -69 


29 .87 ( 1) 


Trio Films, Bombay - 7 


U 
59583 


B / 58336 - 41 " Wise Farmers Use 

Everest Asbestos 
Cement" ( Col.) (35 
mm . ) (India ). 


Trio Films, Jyoti 
Studios, Kennedy 
Bridge, Bombay -7 . 


25 - 11 -69 


Valid for English , 
Bengali, Tamil, 
Telugu , Kannada 
& Malayalam 
versions . 


U 


B / 58329 


“ Har Kadam 
Kamyabi" 
( Hindi) ( 35 
( India ). 


Par 
( Col.) 
mm .) 


29 . 87 ( 1 ) Mahendra Batra , Focus Filnis , 679 59584 

Bajarang House, Block U * New - - - 
3rd Rd., Santacruz Airport, Calcutta -53 . 25 - 11 -69 
East , Bombay -55 . 


B / 58330 


29 .87 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do, 


59585 


“ Safal Jeevan " ( Col. ) 
(Hindi) (35 mm .) 
( India ). 


25 - 11- 69 


B / 58324 - 25 


( 35 


“ News Flash " 
mm .) ( India ) . 


30 .48 ( 1 ) Radio Advertising Radio Advertising 

Service , Cecil Court , Service , Bombay - 1 . 
Lansdowne Rd. , 
Bombay - 1. 


59586 

- - 
25- 11 -69 


Valid for English , 

& Kannada ver 
sions. 


B / 58323 


* The Complete Food " 
( English ) (35 mm .) 
( India ). 


29 .85 ( 1) Advertising & Sales 

Promotion Co ., C /o 
F . B . Production , 
Film Centre , 68 , 
Tardeo Rd., Bom 
bay - 34 . 


F . B . Productions, 59587 
Film Centre, 68 , -- 
Tardeo Rd ., Bom - 25- 11 -69 
bay - 34 . 


B / 58334 


" Arello 12 : A 

Briefing " (English ) 
( 16 mm .) ( U . S . A .). 


328 . 57 ( 1 ) United States In - 

formation Service , 
Fazal Bhoy House , 
Marine 
Bombay . 


U 
The United States In 59588 
formation Agency , - - 
(U . S .A .). 

25 - 11 -69 


Lines , 


U 


B / 58265 


447 . 14 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


“ U . S . A . In Black 
And 

White " 
(English ) ( 16 mm . ) 
( U . S .A .). 


U .S . Information 59589 
Agency , Washington - 
D . C , 

25 - 11-69 


B / 58266 


271 .27 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


“ Art For Tomorrow " 
( Col.) ( English ) ( 16 
mm .) ( U . S . A .). 


U 
A Production of C . 59590 
BS News, ( U . S . A .) . - 

25 - 11 -69 


B / 5827 .1 


157 . 09 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Foster , 


" The Science Report 
95 B ” ( English ) 
( 16 mm .) ( U .S . A .) . 


Robert 

( U . S . A ) . 


59591 


25 - 11 - 69 


U 


B /58335 


" Pujarin " (Hindi) 
(35 nim .) ( India ), 


59592 With triangle mark , 


3988 . 00 (14 ) Mayur Productions, Vipin Desai, Bombay 

Talkies , 67. 
Kandivli , Bombay 
67 . 


26 - 11 -69 


Endorsement 


Origual length - 3991 . 35 m . 
Delete the following words as spoken by Rain during his scenes with brother-in - law and Ganga : 
Reel IV - Ram - " Aaj ki raat aap hi chale jayiye na" . 

-- - " Aap chale jayiye kal se main chala jaoonga " ( implying visit to Ganga ) - - 3 :35 m . 
Reel V - Ram - Ab aap hi batayiye na mujhe aap ke saath kya Kaina chahiye ? (Underlined words) . 

(Sound only ) 
Length of deletions-_- 3 . 35 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be - -3988 . 00 m . 


LEAGUE 


PART III - SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1783 


VALEO 


w 


I 


so 


6 


B /58200 


U 
" Honeymoon In Bom 603 .50 (2) Cinera, Rawal Bldg., Girish Shah , Bombay 59593 With triangle mark . 
bay " (Col.) (Hindi) 

1st floor, 428, 4 . 
(35 mm .) ( India ) . Lamington Rd., Bom 

26 - 11 -69 
bay - 4 . 
Endorsement 

Original Length - 603 .50 m . 
1 . Delete the shots of theman unfastening the brassier and of removing the nylon sock on the thigh of the dancer 

5 .79 m . 

(Replaced with approved shots --- 5 . 79 m . ). 
2 . Delete close shot of man when the dancer is doing bust movements before him . -- 1 :52 m . 

(Replaced with approved shots — 1 : 52 m .). 
Length of deletions — 7 .31 m . 
Length of approved replacements —– 7 : 31 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations remains unaltered . 


B / 58347 


Valid for 14 versions 


Indian News Review 
No. 1103 (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


210 -61( 1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 59594 

of India , 24, Peddar of India , Bombay. -- 
Rd., Bombay . 

26 - 11-69 


B /58343 


303 .00 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


or 


59595 No dialogue 

Jialogue 

commentary . 
26 - 11-69 


“ Weave Me Some 
Flowers" (Col.) (35 
mm .) ( India ). 
Portrait Of A .S.C . ( 35 
mm .) ( India ) . 


U 


B /58348 


59596 


Valid for 14 versions 


406 .88 (1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 26 , Peddar of India , Bombay - 26 . - 
Rd ., Bombay - 26 . 


26 - 11 - 69 


B /58342 


103 -31 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


“ At The Cross -Roads” 
( 35 mm .) ( India ) . 


59597 Valid for 14 versions 


26 - 11 -69 


B / 58360 


A Child s Horoscope 
( English ) ( 35 mm .) 
(India ). 


607 . 99 ( 2) Image India Films [mage India Films 59598 

Pvt. Ltd . , Nanabhay Pvt. Ltd . , Bombay- 1 . - 
Mansion , P . M . 

26 - 11 -69 
Road , Bombay - 1 . 

U 
1122 (10 ) U . S . S . R . Consulate Gorky Film Studio , 59599 

General, 42 Nepean ( U . S .S . R .). 
Sea Road , Bombay, 

26 - 11 -69 


B / 57627 


Mother s 
(Hindi) ( 16 
( U . S .S . R . ). 


Heart 
mm .) 


B / 58372 


Guru Nanak Darshan 

( Punjabi) ( 35 mm .) 
( India ). 


601 68 ( 2) S. Mohinder Produc - S . Mohinder , Bombay 

tions, Talati Cottage, 58 . 

Bungalows, 
Andheri, Bombay 
58 . 


59600 
27-11-69 


B /58362 - 66 


Mummy s 
Choice 
( India ). 


First 
( 35 mm .) 


29 .87 (1 ) Trio Films, Jyoti Trio Films, Bombay - 

7 
Studios, Kennedy 
Bridge, Bombay - 7. 


5 9601 Valid for English , 

- Hindi, Bengali, 
27- 11 -69 Tamil 

and 
Malayalam ver 

sions , 
U 
59602 Gujarati and 

-- Marathi versions. 
27 - 11 - 69 


29 . 87 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do , 


B / 58367 -68 Dahya Khedooto 

Everest Asbestos 
Cement Waparechhe 
( Colour ) ( 35 mm . ) 
(India ). 


U 


B /58369 


BP10 


Do . 


Do . 


Do . 


Aqalmand Kisan 
Everest Asbestos 
Cement Pasand Karte 
Hain (Col.) ( 35 mm .) 
( India ) . 


59603 Hindi & Marathi 

versions. 
27- 11 -69 


B /58344 


Mutation ( English ) 

(35 mm .) (India ). 


U 
518 . 16 (2 ) Satyendr N . Goyal, Satyendr N . Goyal, 59604 

Clo Shri S . J . Goal, Bombay - 20 . 
Shanti Kuteer , Marine 

27 - 11 -69 
Drive , Bombay -20 . 

U 
29 .87 ( 1 ) Clarion McCann J. G . Thakur, Film 59605 

Advertising Service Media , 47, Laxmı - - 
Pvt. Ltd . Merchant Insurance Bldg . Sir 27 - 11 - 69 
Chambers , New P . M . Rd. Bombay - 1 . 
Marine 

Lines , 
Bombay . 


B / 58346 


“ It s Right For You 

( Col.) (English ) (35 
mm .) ( India ). 


wan 


1784 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


(Part III - SEC . 4 


- 


MA 


N 


ww 


2 


3 


4 


S 


6 


RAT 


WOONS 


U 


B158296 


121 · 


59606 


Swedish 
Stockholm 


Royal Swedish 
Embassy , Nyaya 
Marg , Chanakyapuri 
New Delhi- 11 . 


Institute , 
(Sweden ) 


EM 


" Form In Function s 
(Cinemascope ) ( Col.) 
( English ) ( 16 mm .) 
( Sweden ). 


27. 11 -69 


B /58298 


152.40(1) 


152 . 40 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do. 


59607 


" Malmo Gateway To . 
The North ” (Cinema 
scope ) 

(Col. ) 
( English ) ( 16 mm .) 
(Sweden ). 


27- 11-69 


27-11-69 


B /58295 


198 - 12 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


59608 


" Song Of A City " 
( Cinemascope ) ( Col.) 
(English ) ( 16 mm . ) 
( Sweden ) . 


27 - 11 -69 


U 


B /58294 


182 -88( 1) 


DO . 


59609 


“ Portrait Of Stoc 
kholm " ( Cinema . 
Scope ) 
( English ) ( 16 mm ) 
( Sweden ). 


(Col.) 


27 - 11 -69 


B 58297 


in 


106 .68 (1 ) 


Do . 


Dweden 


S9610 


“ Mushrooms 
Sweden ” (Cinema . 
scope ) 

Col.) 
( English ) (16 mm .) 
(Sweden ) . 


A Radio Sweden 
Production ( Sweden ) . -- - 

27 - 11 -69 


B /57627 


Malenotti , 


U 
59611 With triangle mark . 


Trailer of “ Arabella " 
( Col. ) (English ) (35 
im . ) ( U .S . A . ) . 


70 - 71(1 ) Universal Pictures Maleno 

India P . Ltd . Metro ( U . S . A .) . 
House , M . G . Rd. 
Bombay -1 . 


28 - 11-69 


Endorsement.--- 

Original length -- 71 . 93 17. 
Reduce to a flash scene of Arabella in her scene with Saverid , deleting close view of her exposed bosom - 1 .22 m . 
( Length retained - 0 . 30 m .). 
Actuallength of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be -- 70 71 m . 

U 
“ Radiation Protec . 549 .00 ( 1 ) Asstt . Purchase U . S . Navy Training 59612 
tion In Nuclear 

Officer , Bhabha Film , (U . S. A . ). 
Medicine " (Col.) Atomic Research 

28 -11 -69 
(Eng .) ( 16 mm ) 

Centre , Purchase 
U . S . A .) . 

Division , 3rd floor , 
Mohatta Bldg . , Palton 
Rd. , Bombay - 1 . 


B /57375 


B /58378 


Research 


243 . 8401 ) 


25640) 


Do . 


6 Medical 
Reactor " 
(English ) 
U . S .A . ) . 


Research 

(Col. ) 
(16 mm .) 


Reaction 


Dose 


59613 


Audio 
Inc . 


Production 
( U . S . A . ) . 


ringen 


28 - 11 -69 


B /58377 


365 - 76 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


“ Radioisotopes In 
Medical Diagnosis 
& Investigation " 
( Col.) ( English ) ( 16 
mm .) ( U . K .). 


The U . K . Atomic 
Energy Authority , 
( U .K .) . 


59614 
28 -11-69 


B158376 


5 


S 


243 .84 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


* Personnel Moni 

toring (English ) ( 16 
mm ) ( Austria ) . 


U 
The International 59615 
Atomic Agency - 
(Documentary Film 28 - 11 -69 

Norway ) 
( Austria ). 


of 


B158379 


182 .88 (1 ) 


Do , 


" A Matter Of Con . 
tamination Sense " 
( English ) ( 16 mm .) 
( U . K .). 


The U . K . Atomic 59616 
Energy Authority - 
(G . Buckland Smith ) 28 - 11- 69 
(U . K .). 


B 58236 


59617 


" The Extraordinary 
Seaman ” (Panavi 
sion) (Colour ) 
(English ) (35 mm ) 
( U .S .A .). 


2 ,314 .0419 ) Metro Goldwyn Metro Goldwyn Mayer, 

Mayer India Ltd . (U . S . A .) . 
Metro House , M . G . 
Rd. Bombay . 


29 - 11 -69 


+ - 


www 


- 


- 


TOT 


PART III - SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1785 


NE 


5 


6 


B / 58237 


59618 


Trailer of “ The 
Extraordinary Sea . 
man " (Panavision ) 
( Colour ) (English ) 
(35 mm ) (U . S. A . ). 


84 .43 ( 1 ) Metro Goldwyn Mayer Metro Goldwyn Mayer , 

India Ltd . Metro (U . S . A .) . 
House , M .G . Rd . 
Bombay . 


29 - 11 - 69 


U 


B /58427 


A 


Landau , 


59619 


Trailer of " Mad . 
woman Of Chaillot" 
(Panavision ) (35 mm .) 
( U . S . A .). 


94 79 ( 1) Warner Bros . Seven Ely 
Arts ( E . E .) Inc . US 

( 
Eros Bidg . Church . 
gate , Bombay . 


29 - 11 -69 


U 


B /57629 


1 ,122(10 ) 


Studio , 


59620 " 


" Maanu 

Dil” 
(Mother s Heart) 
Gujarati ) (16 mm . ) 
U .S . S .R .) . 


U . S.S. R . Consulate Gorky Film 
General, 42 , Nepean ( U . S. S .R .). 
Sea Rd. Bombay , 


29 - 11 -69 


B /57321 


" Skidoo " ( Colour) 2 ,638 -79 ( 10 ) Paramount Films, Otto Preminger, 2628 With triangle mark 
(Panavision ) (English ) 

of India Ltd . Hague ( U . S . A . ). 
(35 mm .) ( U . S. A .) . 

Bldg . Sprott R 

25 . 11 -69 
Bombay . 
Endorsement 

Original length - 2 ,676 .45 m . 
Reels I, II and III - Delete the prominent views of nude girls with paints on their body - 4 . 80 m . 
Reels III and IV - Delete the bare back view of the mistress of " God ” wherever it occurs _ - 32 . 86 m . 
Length of deletions- --37 .66 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be _ 2638 -79 m . 


B /58106 


Malenotti, 


2629 


“ Arabella ” ( Col.) 
( English ) (35 mm . ) 
(U .ŠA .). 


2448 .15 (11) Universal Pictures Maleno 

India P . Lid . Metro ( U . S . A .). 
House , M . G . Rd. 
Bombay . 


25 - 11 - 69 


B /58138 


2630 


“ Pendulum " (Stan 
dard ) (Col.) ( English ) 
(35 mm .) (U . S . A .). 


2 , 793 19 (6 ) Columbia Films of Stanley Niss , (U .S . A .) 

India Ltd . Metro 
House , M . G . Rd. 
Bombay . 


26 - 11-69 


B /56942 


“ Death Rides A 
Horse * * 

( Col.) 
( English ) (35 mm . ) 
(U . S . A .). 


3 ,13273( 14 ) 20th Century Fox . Al Sansone & Henry 

Corp ( I) P . Ltd . Chroscicki ( U . S . A .) . 
Metro House , M . G . 
Rd, Bombay . 


2631 
- 
28 - 11 -69 


B / 56943 


" Hang Em High " 3,133 -35(12) 

Do . 

Leonard Freeman , 2632 With triangle mark 
(Col.) ( English ) (35 

( U . S . A .). 
mm .) ( U . S . A .). " 

29 - 11 -69 
Endorsement 

Original lengtk - 3,134 .87 m . 
Reell- Reduce the scene of Cooper s hanging down the tree , particularly deleting prominent views of his face with 

distorted expressions 1 . 32 m . ( Length retained - 0 .68 m .). 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be_ -3,133 -35 m . 


ENDORSEMENTS 
ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 


B / 57697 


Film - - " Samay Bada Balwan " (Hindustani). 
U . 58343 dated 19 - 9 -69. 
Reels VII , X and XIV - Addition of back - ground music is approved . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 26th November, 1969 . 
B /58101 
FUm " Do Raaste " ( Col.) (Hindi). 
U - 59494 dated 18 -11- 1969 . 
Reel l- Addition of the title " We are grateful to M /s. Hindustan Musical Products Ltd., Calcutta ” is 

4 . 57 m . 
Reels II , V, VIII, IX , XIII, XV , XVI, and XVIII -- Deleted various shots -138 . 99 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be - 4411 - 32 m . 
The certificate was endorsed on 26th November, 1969 . 


approved 


Y 


1786 


TTIE GAZEITE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


(PART III - SEC . # 


** * 


2 


mm 


2d5 
3 4 


6 


7 


- 44 


- 


HA 


VERSIONS 
B /58080 
Film — “ American On The Moon ” (English ). 
U - 59350 dated 22 - 10 - 1969 . 
This certificate is valid also for the exhibition of the colour version of the film . 
The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 26th November 1969 . 
B / 58326 
Film -- “ Meet The Champion " (Eng., Hindi, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu & Malayalam ) (Col.). 
U - 59377 dated 29 - 10 - 69 . 
This certificate is valid also for Kannada version of the film . The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 26th November 1969 . 
B /58333 
Film ~ " Jiwacha Mittar" (Marathi & Kannada). 
U -52772 dated 3 - 2 -68 . 
This certificate is valid also for Hindi version of the film , 
The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 26th November 1969 . 

CORRECTIONS 
B /58108 
Film - “ African Safari” (English ) (Colour). 
U - 59380 dated 30 - 10 - 69 . 
Nurnber of Reels on the face of the certificate may be read as 10 instead of 11 . Length of the film remains un 

altered , 
The certificate was endorsed on 25th November 1969. 
B / 57450 
Film - " Mukkam Post Dhebewadi" (Marathi). 
U - 58055 dated 14 - 8 - 69 . 
Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 4214 .16 m . in 16 Reels instead of 4196 . 18 m . in 

14 Reels. 
The certificate was endorsed on 25th November 1969 . 
B / 57975 
Film -— " Nandini” (Marathi). 
U -59328 dated 20 - 10 -69 . 
Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 3792 -63 m . instead of 3779 . 52 m . 
The certificate was endorsed on 25th November 1969 . 
B /57526 
Film -- " How To Give Instructions" ( Eng.). 
U - 58263 dated 8 - 9 -69. 
The title of the film on the face of the certificate inay be read as " Instructions or Obstructions " instead of " How To 

Give Instructions" . The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 26th November 1969 . 
B /48894 
Film - “ View And Teach -- - No . 14 - Too Much And Not Enough " (English ). 
U -49738 dated 6 -2 -67 . 
Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be rear as 175 . 00 m . instead of - - 167 - 64 m . 
The certificate was endorsed on 28th November 1969 . 


CALCUTTA 


U 


C16303 


58463 


Les Grenades (French ) 

(16 mm ) ( France ), 


440 .00 ( 1) Cultural Counsellor , J. Frapat, France . 

French Embassy , 
New Delhi. 


24 - 11-69 


C /6304 


Do . 


300 .00 ( 1 ) 


M . J . and J. Tubiana 


58464 


Danses Zighwa (Co 

lour) (French ) (16 
mm ) (France ) . 


24 - 11-69 


C / 6305 


180 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


E , Hayem 


Fils du Sobil ( French ) 

( 16 mm ) ( France ). 


58465 


C /6306 


106 


210 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Documents Sur Une 

Langue Sifflee Pyre 
neennee ( French ) 
(16 mm ) ( France ), 


24 - 11- 69 

U 
Institut National De 58466 
La Recherche Agro 
nomique . 

24 - 11 -69 


AN 


BART III — SEC . 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1787 


AHL 


MO 


MALNVV 


1 


5 


7 


C /6307 


U 
58467 


L Erosion Pluviale Et 

L Agriculture Cent 
rafricane (Colour ) 
( French ) (16 mm ) 
( France ). 


175 .00 (1 ) Cultural Counsellor , Institut Nition 1 De 

French Embassy , La Recherche Agro 
New Delhi. 

nomique, 


24 -11-69 


C /6463 


58468 


Saphalta Ki Rah (Co 

lour ) (Hindi) (35 
mm ) ( India ). 


29 . 77 (1 ) Focus Films, 679 , Block Focus Films, 679 , 

" O , New Alipore, Block O , New Ali 
Calcutta , 

pore , Calcutta . 


25 - 11 -69 


C /6464 


29 .77 (1) 


Do . 


58469 


Saphalta Ka Rahasya 

(Colour ) (Hindi) (35 
mm ) ( India ). 


25 - 11 -69 


C /6465 


29 . 77 ( 1) 


Do. 


58470 


Cherry Blossom (Co 

lour) ( English ) (35 
mm ) (India ). 


25 - 11 -69 

U 
58471 


C /6466 


29 .77 (1) 


Do , 


How To Succeed (Co 
lour ) (English ) (35 

mm ) ( India ). 


25 - 11 -69 

U 
58472 


C /6467 


29 . 77 ( 1) 


Do . 


Saphalyer Chabikathi 

( Colour) (Bengali ) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


25 -11-69 


C /6448 


58473 


Andhere Ka Saathi 

(Colour) (Hindi) (35 
mm ) ( India ) . 


30 . 00 (1 ) Dayabhai Bhakta , 529 , Dayabhai Bhakta , 529 , 

Jodhpur Park , Cal- Jodhpur Park , Cal 
cutta - 31 . 

cutta - 31 . 


25 - 11 -69 


U 


C /6449 


30 -00( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


Andhakarer Mukti 

(Colour) (Bengali ) 
( 35 mm ) (India ) . 


58474 


25 - 11 -69 


U 


C /6450 


30 - 00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


58475 


Andhari Raat No 

Saathi (Colour ) 
(Gujarati ) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


25 - 11-69 


C / 6451 


30 . 00 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


58476 


Endharar Mukti (Co 

lour) (Assamese ) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


25 -11 -69 


C /6452 


30 . 00 (1 ) 


Do 


Do . 


58477 


Audharya Cha Sobati 

(Colour ) (Marathi) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


25 - 11 -69 


C /6453 


30 .00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


58478 


Nisha Sahayi (Colour ) 

(Malyalam ) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ). 


25 - 11-69 


U 


C /6454 


30 .00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


58479 


Cheekati Lo Snehitudu 

(Colour) ( Telugu ) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


C /6455 


30 . 00 (1 ) 


Do . 


25 - 11 -69 

U 
58480 
25 - 11 -69 


Eravin Nauban (Co 

lour ) ( Tamil) (35 
mm ) (India ). 


Do . 


C /6456 


30 .00 ( 1) 


U 
58481 


Do . 


Do . 


Andha Kardha Gelaya 

(Colour ) (Kannada ) 
( 35 mm ) (India ). 


25 - 11 -69 

U 
58482 


C /6308 


Li Methode Statistique 

(Colour ) (French ) 
( 16 mm ) ( France ) . 


296 .00 (2) Cultural Counsellor , L Institut Des Scie - 

French Embassy , nces Humaines Et 
New Delhi. 

Appliquees, Univer- 
site De Bordeaux . 


25 -11-69 


U 


C /6309 


145 . 00 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


The Scientific Research 

Film Service . 


58483 


Li Chromatographie 

D Adsorption (Co 
lour) (French ) (16 
mm ) (France ). 


25 - 11 -69 


M299GI/ 70 - 12 


1788 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[Part III - SEC . 4 


HANNEL 


ANH 


1 


3 


C /6311 


185 .00 ( 1 ) 


58484 


Vitesses 

( French ) 
(France ). 


Radiates 
( 16 mm ) 


Cultural Counsellor 

French Embassy , 
New Delhi . 


Centre National De La 

Recherche Scienti 
fique . 


25 - 11 -69 


C /6312 


197 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Le Centre Condorcet 


58485 


Le Fibrogramme (Co 
lour ) ( French ) 
(16 mm ) (France ). 


25 - 11 -69 


U 
58486 


C /6415 


Sheela (Bengali ) 

(35 mm ) ( India ), 


3 , 268 - 37 (12) Kine Unit , 7, Durga Nimesh Roy, Nirmal 

Charan Banerjee Baneijce , Clo . Kine 
Street , Calcutta - s . Unit , 7 , Durga 

Charan Banerjee 
Street, Calcutta - 5 . 


25 - 11 -69 


C /6314 


Introduction To The 

Law of Large Num 
ber (Colour ) (French ) 
(16 mm ) (France ). 


220 ( 1) Cultural Counsellor, Le Centre Condorcet. 

French Embassy , 
New Delhi. 


58487 
28 - 11 -69 


U 


C /6315 


153 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


Do . 


58488 


The Multinomial For 
mula ( Colour ) 
( French ) ( 16 mm ) 
( France ). 


Color 


28 - 11 -69 


(French ) 


U 


C /6316 


165 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


58489 


Pascal s Triangle 

(Colour) (French ) 
(16 mm ) ( France ) . 


28 - 11 -69 


C /6317 


110 ( 1) 


Do . 


Introduction To Space 
Geometry (French ) 
(16 mm ) ( France ). 


A . Biguenet and A . 

Fouche , 


58490 


28 - 11 -69 


C /6318 


300 ( 1 ) 


U 
58491 


Centre De Recherches 

Nucleaire . 


La Methode Ionogra 

phique En Physique 
Corpusulaire ( Co 
lour) (French ) 
(16 mm ) (France ). 


28 - 11- 69 


U 
58492 


C /6319 


90 ( 1 ) 


M . Francon 


Couleurs Interferen 

tielles Descoli 
leris (Colour ) (Fren 
ch ) (16 mm ) ( France ). 


28 - 11 -69 


C /6320 


87 (1 ) 


Do , 


58493 


Interferometrie A Pola 

risation (Colour ) (No 
dialogue or song or 
commentary ) 
mm ) ( France ) . 


28 - 11 -69 


llary16 


C /6326 


1916 


181 ( 1) 


U 
58494 


Epitaxie Et Noyauk 

Glacogenes (Colour ) 
( French ) ( 16 mm ) 
( France ) . 


Do. 


Filmtec 


28 -11- 69 


U 


C /6327 


315 (1) 


Do . 


L Ecole Normale Supe- 

rieure, Saint Cloud , 


58495 


L Interferometre De 
michelson (Colour ) 
( French ) ( 16 mm ) 
( France ). 


28 - 11 -69 


MADRAS 


U 


M /5744 


“ Vetri Tirumagan 3961 .49( 17) Sree Kalpanalaya , Miss. K . Vasanti , 65011 
( Tamil) (35 mm ) 

Madras . 

Madras , 
(B & W ) (India ) . 

24 - 11- 69 

U 
" Bhale Basaya (Kan - 4551 62 (17) Vikram Productions, Vikram Productions , 65012 With triangle mark , 
nada ) ( 35 mm ) 

42 , G . N . Chetti 42 , G . N . Chetti - 
(Orwocolour ) ( India ). 

Road , Madras -17 . Road , Madras- 17 . 24 - 11 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 65012-U dated 24 -11-69 issued to the film Bhale Basaya (Kannada ) (Oiwocolour ). 


M /5779 


Length as in the application.- 4558 .00 Metres. 


new 


PART 111 - SEC . 4 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1789 


4 


ANN 


Metres 


Cuts 

1. Reel 2 – At the end of the song , delete shots showing the pointed breasts in a 

side view of Ganga and also when she is lying down . (Appd. replacement with 
sky - shots 1 .20 and 1 : 32 ) . . . . . . . . . . 


1 . 20 
1 . 52 


1 . 52 


3 . 12 


2 . Reel 3 — Delete the shot of the Pallav of Lakshmi s sari falling down when she 

gives coffee to Sankar . . . . . 
3 . Reel 4 - Delete the shot when Sankar and Sobha make love , the cheek to cheek 

posture and his lying over Sobha on her side. (Appd . replacement with 

flower shots 3 :13) . . . . . . . . . . . 
4 . Reel 12 – Delete shots where Sankar pulls the sari of Sobha exposing her busts 

and later pressing his cheek with hers and kissing her . (Appd , replacement with 

flower shots (2 : 13 ) . . . . . . . . . 
5 . Reel 16 - Delete shot of molesting Lakshmi by Sankar, and the shot where she 
is shown lying on the ground with Sankar s legs crossed over her . . . 

TOTAL CUTS . . 


2 . 13 


4 . 86 


14 :35 


Total replacements - 7 .97 Metres. 
The actual length of the film after cuts and appd . replacements will be - 4551 .62 Metres in 17 Reels . 


M / 5787 


Vedalam Sonna Ka- 4133 .08 (16 ) Manorama Movies, Manorama Movies, 65013 With triangle mark . 
thai ( Tamil) ( 35 mm ) 

2 - 1 / B , Eldams Road , 2 / 1 - B , Eldams Road , 
( B & W ) (India ). 

Madras - 18 . Madras- 18 . 

24 -11 - 69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 65013 -U , dated 24th November 1969 - issued to the film Vedalam Sonna Kathai ( Tamil ) . 

Length as in the application . -— 4145 . 28 Metres . 
Cut 

Metres 
Reel 13 – - Reduce (by 25 % ) the fighting scene between Kalabhairavan and Jayavik 
raman : 

12 . 19 
Actual length of the film after the cut will bem -4133 .09 Metres in 16 Reels . 


M /5789 


"Mannippu ( Tamil) 3946 .88 ( 14 ) Mohan Productions, Mohan Productions, 65014 With triangle mark , 
(35 mm ) ( B & W ) 

5 , Ramaswami Iyer 5 , Ramaswami Iyer -- - 
( India ). 

Street , Madras -6 . Street, Madras - 6 . 25 - 11 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 65014 - U , dated 25th November 1969 issued to ‘Mannippu (Tamil) 35 mm B & W . 
Length as in the application — 3960 . 26 Metres. 
Cuts-- 

Metres 
1 . Reel 1 - - When the woman is shown bathing in water , delete shots showing her 

busts prominently in wet clothes, and delete the shots of the man who comes to 
molest her, catching hold of her violently 

8 . 52 
2 . Reel 5« In the dream sequence ( love -making of Banu and Gopi), delete the shot 

where there is a suggestion of kissing and also the hugging and falling over each 
other in the park . ( Approved replacement 2 . 13) 

2 . 13 
3 . Reel 11 - Delete the shot where barber (Nallamuthu ) in his nightmare , hugs the 
sack (which obviously is the reference to the dead body of Radha ) 

4 . 86 
TOTAL CUTS . . 15 .51 


M /5785 


Actual length of the film after cuts and appd . replacement will be - - 3946 .88 Metres in 14 Reels . 

U 
*Mattukara Velan 4748 - 48 (16 ) Jayanthi Films Jayanthi Films P . Ltd . 65015 With triangle mark . 
( Tamil) ( 35 mm ) 

(Madurai) P . Ltd ., 10 , Lake . 3rd Cross - 
( Eastmancolour ) 

10 , Lake , 3rd , Cross Street , Madras- 34 . 26 - 11 -69 
(India ). 

Street, Madras- 34 . 
Endorsement on Cert. No. 65015 -U , dated 26th November 1969 - issued to the film ‘Mattukara Velan (Tamil) (East 

mancolour) . 
Length us in the application – 4748 .48 Metres . 

Metres 
Cut 
Reel 10 — Song 4 – In the song beginning with Poo Vaitha Poovaikku Pookkal 

Sondhama , delete the shots where Raghu and Kamala embrace each other 
rather tightly, and one falling over the other. (Approved replacement with 
flower - shots . 3 . 04 ) 

• 3 . 04 
The actual length of the film , therefore remains the same, namely – 4748 .48 Metres in 16 Reels . 


M /5793 


UN 


‘ Ekaveera ( Telugu ) 

( 35 mm ) ( B & W ) 
( India ). 


4761 00 ( 18 ) Padma Films, 2 , Cor - Shri D . L . Narayana , 

poration High School 2 , Corporation High 
Road , Madras- 34 . School Road , 

Madras - 34 . 


65016 
26 -11 -69 


1790 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


(PART III — SEC . 4 


4 


5 


U 


M /5796 


‘ Koottu Kudumbam 3957 24 ( 14 ) Udaya Studios, Allep - Udaya Studios, Allep - 65017 With triangle mark. 
(Malayalam ) (35 mm ) 

pey (Kerala ) . 

pey (Kerala ) . 
( B & W ) ( India ). 

27- 11 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No . 65017 - U , dated 27-11-69 issued to the film ‘Koottu Kudumbam (Malayalam ) 


Metres 


Length as in the application - -3960 .88 Metres. 
Cuts 
1 . Reel 1 - - Delete the dialogue of Unnithan saying " Seetha Kaattru Adichal 

Garbham Undagunna Onnineyaane Deivam Enikku Vidhichirukkunnu . (God 
has given me one who becomes pregnant with the blowing of cool breeze ) . 

(Sound only ) 
2 . Reel 4 - - Delete the shot of Radhakrishna spanking Syamala on her bottom with 

his hand . . . 
3. Reel 5 -.- Delete the shot of Appukuttan resting his chest on the left of Thangamma. 
4 . Reel 7 - - Reduce the shots of Govindan Nair beating his wife Saraswathi on her 
back , after throwing the plate of Kanji 

TOTAL CUTS . 


1 : 52 
0 .91 


1 .21 


3 .64 


Actual length of the film after the cuts will be--- 3957 .24 Metres in 14 Reels . 


M / 5795 


Karpoora Harathi 4695 .44 ( 17 ) Srikant Productions, Srikant Productions, 65018 With triangle mark . 
( Telugu ) (35 mm ) 

14 , Poes Road , 14 , Poes Road , 
( B & W ) (India ). 

Madras - 18 . Madras -18 . 

27 - 11 -09 
Endorsenient on Certificate No . 65018 -U dated 27 - 11 -69 issued to the film Karpoora Harathi’ (Telugu ). 


Metres 


3 .04 


5 .82 


Length as in the application - 4710 -68 Metres. 
Cuts 
1 . Reel 4 - Delete the shot where, after being shown on separate mats , Ranganna 

comes to Sita and lies over her , and reduce the duration of the shot showing 

their legs entwined 
2 . Reel 6 – Delete the dialogue of Pankajam saying “ Naaku Latak Latak Man 

thuvandi” . . . 
3. Reel 13 - - Delete close -up shot of Rani with the doctor where her breast nipple 

is shown . . . 
4 . Reel 14 _ - ]n the dream -sequence , delete shot of Rani and Vasu hugging each 

other with breasts shown prominently . . . . . . . 
5. Reel 14- In the same dream sequence , delete shot showing Rani sitting and 
Vasu resting his head on her bosom 

TOTAL CUTS . 


3 .04 


3 . 34 


15 24 


M / 5781 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be 4695 . 44 Metres in 17 Reels. 

U 
Virunnukari (Malaya . 3931 -35 (15 ) Shanthashri, 6 , Palat Shanthashri , 6 , Palat 65019 With triangle mark . 
lam ) ( 35 mm ) (B & 

Sankaran Nair Road , Sankaran Nair Road , 
W ) ( India ). 

Madhavan Nair Co Madhavan Nair Co - 27 - 11 -69 

lony, Madras - 34 . lony , Madras - 34 . 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 65019 - U , dated 27th November 1969. . .issued to the film Virunnukari 

(Malayalam ) . 


Metres 


2 . 74 


6 .69 


Length as in the application - - 3956 - 30 Metres. 
Cuts . 
1 . Reel 2 - Delete the words uttered by Swamy “ In spite of family planning " , where 

he refers to his eight children 
2 . Reel 5 - - Delete the shot where the bust of Shanti is shown very prominently 

when she is standing together with Sethu . 
3 , Reel 6 -- Delete the reference in the dialogue of Swamy where he says that police 

and Ministers are in his hands . . . . . . . . . 
4 . Reel 6 - Delete the dialogue of Swamy with Radha where he states that delivery 

of children by his wife should be put an end to . ( Edayalum Madyamayathi 
Ragathinde Perittu Ende Wifeindey Prasavam Niruthanam Ennane Aag 

raham ) 
5 . Reel 7 - - Reduce drastically (by 75 % ) the beating scene of Shanti by her parents 

when they find out that she has become pregnant 


6 . 39 


3 .04 


6 . 09 


TOTAL CUTS , 


. . 


24 . 95 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be 3931 •35 Metres in 15 Reels . 


ANNEL 


PART III — Sec . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1791 


M /5792 


U 
Government of Tamil- 295 .00 (1) Principal, Institute of Principal, Institute of 65020 
nadu Regional News 

Film Technology , Film Technology , 
reel Bulletin 18 % 

Madras , Madras. 

27 -11-69 
( Tamil ) (35 mm ) 
(B & W ) ( India ). 

U 
Vaa Raja Vaa (Tamil) 4194 . 00 ( 18 ) C . N . V. Productions, C . N . V . Productions, 65021 
(35 mm ) (Eastman 

62 / 2 , Mowbrays 62 /2 , Mowbrays - 
colour) (India ) . 

Road , Madras- 18 . Road , Madras- 18 . 28 - 11 -69 
Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the Week ending 

6th December 1969 . 


M / 5790 


BOMBAY 


U 


B /58374 


" Atomic 

(English ) 
(U . S . A .). 


Physics" 
(16 mm ) 


59621 


1 - 12 -69 


1024 ( 5 ) Asstt. Purchase Officer, A Gaumont British 

Bhabha Atomic Re- International Ltd . 
search Centre , Pur Production , ( U . S . A . ) . 
chase Division , 3rd 
floor, Mohatta Build 
ing, Palton Road , 
Bombay - 1 . 


B /58142 


59622 


" Elsa The Lioness " 

(English ) (16 mm ) 
( U . K .) . 


335 . 27 ( 1) National Education B . B . C . (David A 

Information Kenborough ) ( U . K . ). 
Films Ltd ., National 
House, Tulloch 
Road , Bombay . 


1 - 12 -69 


U 


B /58478 


59623 


Trailer of " Jungle 

King " (Hindi) 
( 35 mm ) ( India ). 


90 -83 ( 1 ) Prakash Aggarwal, J. L . Prasher, 14 , 

Clo Bombay Lab . Khar Road , Bombay . 
Pvt. Ltd ., Dadar , 
Bombay - 28 . 


1 - 12 -69 


B /58431 


U 
59624 


" For Mothers Who 

Care A Little More " 
( Colour) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


29 .87 ( 1 ) Widescreen , Shirin , Widescreen , Bombay . 

Colaba Post Office , 
Bombay. 


Valid for English , 
Hindi, , Gujarati, 
Tamil and Mala 
yalam versions . 


1 - 12 -69 


B / 58429 


59625 


Trailer of " Chitty 

Chitty Bang Bang " 
Super panavision ) 
(Colour) ( English ) 
(35 mm ) (U .S. A .). 


104 .85( 1 ) 20th Century Fox Albert R . Broccoli, 

Corp . (I) P . Ltd ., ( U .S . A .) . 
Metro House , M .G . 
Road , Bombay . 


2 - 12 - 69 


B / 58305 


“ Forest Regions Of 

Canada ” (Colour) 
(English ) ( 16 mm ) 
(Canada ). 


198 ( 1) Office Of The High 

Commissioner for 
Canada , New Delhi. 


The National Film 

Board Of Canada , 
(Canada ) . 


U 
59626 
2 -12-69 


B /58306 


137 (1 ) 


U 
59627 


Do . 


Do . 


“ What In The World 

Is Water ? " (Colour ) 
(English ) (16 mm ) 
( Canada ) . 


2 -12 -09 


U 


B /58092 


59628 


“ Fee Fie Foes ” (Car 

toon ) ( Colour) ( Eng 
lish (35 mm ) 
(U .S .A . ). 


184 . 10 (1 ) Columbia Films of Joseph Barbera and 

India Ltd ., Metro William Hanna , 
House , M .G . Road , ( U .S . A . ). 
Bombay - 1 . 


2 - 12 -69 


B /58091 


184 .10 


Do . 


Do. 


59629 


“ Zoo Is Company ” 

(Cartoon ) (Colour ) 
(English ) (35 mm ) 
(U .S. A .) 


William Hanna and 

Joseph Barbera , 
( U . S . A .) . 


2 - 12 -69 


U 


B / 58089 


199 34 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Bosustow , 


“ Picnics Are Fun " 

(Cartoon ) ( Colour ) 
(English ) (35 mm ) 
(U . S . A .). 


Stephen 

( U . S . A . ) . 


59630 


2 - 12-69 


U 


B /58090 


59631 


“ On Location With : 

Run Wild Run Free " 
(Colour ) (English ) 
( 35 mm ) ( U .S .A .) . 


167 .64 ( 1 ) Columbia Films Of Irving Allen ( U . S . A .) 

India Ltd ., Metro 
House , M . G . Road , 
Bombay . 


2 - 12 - 69 


1792 


THE GAZETTE ÓF ÍNDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


(PART III - SEC . 4 


w 


UN 


B /58353 


U 
59632 


Professional Films Inc . 

( U . S . A . ) . 


“ Topol : (Featurette 

Of “ Before Winter 
Comes" ) (Colour) 
(English ) (35 mm ) 
(U .S .A .). 


134 •11 (1 ) Columbia Films of 

India Ltd . Met o 
House , M . G . Rd . , 
Bombay . 


2 - 12 -69 


B / 58242 


U 
59633 


453 54 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


“ Tall , Dark And 

Gruesome" ( English ) 
( 35 mm ) ( U . S . A .) . 


Hugh McCollum , 

( U .S . A .). 


2 - 12 -69 


B / 58428 


Albert R . 

( U .S .A .). 


Broccoli, 


59634 


" Chitty Chitty, Bang 

Bang ” (Colour ) 
(Super panavision ) 
( English ) (70 mm ) 
U . S . A .) . 


4943 . 55 (18 ) 20th Century Fox 

Corp . (I) P . Ltd ., 
Metro House , M . G . 
Road , Bombay . 


2 - 12-69 


U 
59635 


B /58359 


Carreras , 


Trailer of " Moon Zero 

Two " (Colour ) (Eng 
lish ) (35 mm ) 
(London ) . 


6614 ( 1 ) Warner Bros . Seven Michael 

Arts ( F .E .) Inc . Eros ( London ) . 
Building Churchgate , 
Bombay . 


2 -12-69 


B / 58498 


" Uttar Pradesh Sama 

char No . 3 ” (Hindi) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


289 .56 ( 1) J. R . Chaturvedi, Di- Mahesh Prasad , Govt. 

rector of Informa - of U . P ., Lucknow . 
tion , Govt. of Uttar 
Pradesh . 


U 
59636 
3 - 12 -69 


B /58430 


59637 


Valid for 14 versions 


" Indian News Review 

No . 1104 " ( 35 mm ) 
(India ) . 


180 .67 ( 1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 , Peddar of India, Bombay - 26 . 
Road , Bombay- 26 . 


mu 


3 - 12 -69 


U 


B /58484 - 85 


301 ( 1) 


59638 


“ Maharashtra News 
No . 210 November 
1969 " (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


Director of Publicity , Director of Publicity , 
Govt. of Mahara Govt. of Mahara 
shtra , Sachivalya , shtra , Bombay - 32 . 
Bombay - 32 . 


Valid for Marathi 
and Hindi Versions. 


3 - 12 -69 


Yalya , 


U 
59639 


B /58494 


Nath , 


“ Beti- Tumahre Jaisi" 

(Hindi) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ). 


3463 . 75 ( 14 ) The Cultural Film Mahendra 

Society , A / 2 , Ma- Bombay- 50 . 
dhuba , St . Andrens 
Road Bandra , 
Bombay - 50 . 


3 -12 - 69 


B /57657 


Trailer of " Hang ‘ Em 66 .64 (1 ) 20th Century Fox Leonard Freeman , 59640 With triangle mark , 
High ” ( Colour) 

Corp . (I) P . Ltd ., ( U . S . A . ). 
( English ) (35 mm ) Metro House , M . G . 

3 - 12 -69 
( U . S . A . ). 

Road , Bombay . 
Endorsement 
Original length -- -67 . 06 m . 

Delete the scene showing the man s face bulging out when the rope tightens around his neck . - 0 .42 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be - 66 -64 m . 

U 
Trailer of " The Birds , 66 .87 (1) 20th Century Fox Robert Haggiag & 59641 With triangle mark . 
The Bees And The Corp . ( I) P . Ltd ., Pietro 

Germi 
Italians" . Metro House , M . G . ( U .S .A .). 

3 - 12 -69 
Road , Bombay 


B /57348 


Endorsement 
Original length - - 67 .67 m . 

Delete the shot of a topless girl doing striptease .-- 0 . 80 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be - 66 .87 m . 


B / 47658 


Turman , 


59642 With triangle mark . 


3 - 12 -69 


Trailer of " The Gra 101 . 50 ( 1) 20th Century Fox Lawrence 
duate " (Panavision ) 

Corp . ( 1) P . Ltd . ( U . S . A .) . 
(Colour) ( English ) 

Metro House , M . G . 
( 35 mm ) ( U . S . A .) . 

Road , Bombay . 
Endorsement- - 

Original length - 106 .68 ni . 
Delete the scene between Benjamin and themother on the bed . - - 5 . 18 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be - - 101 ·50 m . 


U 


B / 58463 


“ Bon " ( Colour ) ( 35 
mm ) ( India ). 


30 .48 ( 1 ) Hema Productions , Hema Productions, 

51- 52 , The National Bombay - 16 . 
Storage P , Ltd ., Mo 
gul Lane , Mahim , 
Bombay - 16 . 


59643 Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
3 - 12 -69 Gujarati, & Ben 

gali versions. 


PART III — SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1793 


EN 


7 


U 
59644 


B / 58476 


201 ( 1) 


" 155 Miles An Hour 
Under A Single Phase 
Catenary ” ( Colour ) 
( English ) ( 16 mm ) 
( France ) . 


H . N . Srivastava, R . D . S .N .C .F . (France). 
S . O . Alawbagh , 
Lucknow - 5 . 


3 - 12 - 69 


U 


B /58474 


151 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


59645 


“ Securite Vitesse 
(Safety At Speed ) " 
(Colour ) ( English ) 
(16 mm ) (France ). 


3 - 12 - 69 


B / 58477 


242 (1) 


U 
59646 


Do. 


Do. 


" A Race Against 

Time" (English ) 
( 16 mm ) (France ). 


3 - 12 -69 


U 


B / 58475 


175 ( 1) 


Do. 


59647 


3 - 12 -69 


“ De L autorial Au 

Turbotrain ( From 
Railcar to the Turbe 
rail) (Colour ) (Eng 
lish ) (16 mm ) 
( France ) 


U 


B / 58442 


“ Good For Your 
Skin " (Colour) 
( 35 mm ) (India ) . 


30 . 48 ( 1 ) Jaisons Advertising , Short Prints , Bombay 

305 , Y . M . Road , 3 . 
Bombay - 3 . 


Valid for English 
& Hindi versions . 


59648 

- 
3 - 12 - 69 

U 
59649 


B /58496 


“ Story Of Steel" 
(Colour ) ( English ) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


453 (2 ) Jasmine Films, 305 , Y . A Tata Film by Jas 

M . Road , Bombay - 3. mine Films, Bombay - 3 . 


3 - 12 -69 


U 
59650 


B / 58495 


" Tongue In 
(English ) 
( India ). 


Cheek ” 
( 35 mm ) 


576 .07 (2 ) Satya Dev Dubey, B - Swati Chitra , Bom 

504 Surya Apart - bay - 26 . 
ments , Bhulabhai 
Desai Road , Bom 
bay - 26 . 


4 - 12 -69 


U 


B / 58497 


Ltd ., 


59651 


" Safalta Ka Raza 
(Colour ) (Hindi) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


30 . 48 ( 1) Ama Private Ltd ., Ama Private 

Canada Bldg . Horn - Bombay . 
by Road , Bombay. 


4 - 12 -69 


U 


B / 58518 


59652 


“ Breed For The Fu 

ture " (Colour ) ( Eng 
lish ) ( 16 mm ) (Eng 
land) . 


283 ( 1 ) T . S . Pruthi, Under Beecham Research 

Secretary , I . C . A . R . International ( Eng 
New Delhi. 

land ) . 


4 - 12 - 69 


U 


B / 58144 


59653 


“ Prime Minister Mrs. 
Indira Gandhi s Visit 
To Japan " (English ) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


429 . 15 (2 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 , Peddar of India , Bombay - 26 . 
Road , Bombay - 26 . 


4 - 12 -69 


U 
59654 


B /57892 


" Jitna Chotta Ho 

Parivar ” (Hindi) ( 35 
mm ) ( India ). 


213 . 36 (1 ) Triveni Pictures , 109 , Sant Dhawan , Triveni 

Famous Cine Bldg ., Pictures , Bombay- 11 . 
Hains Road , Maha 
laxmi, Bombay - 11. 


4 - 12 -69 


U 


B / 58424 


106 .68 ( 1) 


59655 


" Expo 70 : Getting 
Ready To Roll" 
(Colour ) (English ) 
( 16 mm ) (Japan ). 


Japan Air Lines, Cha - Japan National Tou 
teau Windsor, 86 , rist Organisation , 
Veer Nariman Road , (Japan ) . 
Churchgate , Bom 
bay - 20 . 


4 - 12 - 69 


U 


B / 58488 


59656 With triangle mark . 


“ Sitaron Ki Mehfil ” 
(Colour) (Hindi) 
( 35 mm ) (India ) . 


387 . 10 (2 ) Beekay Deejay & Kam - Beekay Deejay & Kam 

ran Films, 139 , Fa - ran Films, Bombay 
mous Studio , Bom - 11. 
bay- 11 . 


4 - 12 -69 


Endorsement 
Original length _ - 395 . 33 m . 

Delete shot of kissing between Miss Kandall and Sashi Kapoor -— 8 . 23 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be -_ 387 · 10 m . 


B / 57954 


U 
59657 


" Jai-Jawan -Jai Ki. 
san ” (Hindi) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ) . 


434 .04 (2 ) Antarrashtriya Rang - Gopal Mehra Antar 

shala, Maina Cottage, rashtriya Rangshala , 
Shiram Nagar Lane, Delhi- 32 . 
Shahdra, Delhi-32 . 


4 - 12 - 69 


ya 


1794 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892 ) 


[Part III - SEG .4 


AN 


. 


- 


www 


L 


UN 


= 


2 


3 


B / 58490 


U 
59658 


Trailer of " Franken 
stein " (English ) (35 
mm ) ( U . S . A .) . 


46 .02( 1) Universal Pictures Universal Internation 

India P . Ltd . , Metro al Films Inc ., New 
House , M . G . Road , York , ( U . S . A . ) . 
Bombay. 


4 - 12 -69 


B / 58345 


U 
59659 


“ True Taste " (Colour ) 

(English ) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ). 


29 .87 ( 1) Clarion Mc Cann Ad - Jyoti G . Thakur, Film 

vertising Service Pvt . Media , 47 , LaxmiAs 
Ltd . Merchant Cham surance Bldg., Sir P . 
bers , New Marine M . Road , Fort, Bom 
Line , Bombay . 

bay - 1 . 


5 - 12 - 68 


B /58440 


U 
59660 


“ Krtek A Reketa ( The 
Mole And The Ro 
cket ) ( 16 mm ) (Cze 
choslovakia ). 


Czechoslovak Films, 
(Czechoslovakia ) . 


105 . 20 ( 1) National Education & 

Information Films 
Ltd ., NationalHouse , 
Tulloch Road , Bom 
bay . 


Czech titles - Instru 
mental Music 
only . 


5 - 12 -69 


B /57983 


273 . 40 ( 1) 


Do. 


U 
59661 


" Computer Units " 

( Colour ) (English ) 
( 16 mm ) ( U . S . A .). 


Gudio Productions 
Inc . ( U . S .A .). 


5 -12 -69 


B /57982 


213 .35 (1) 


Do. 


Do. 


59662 


" Logic Elements Cir 

cuits” (Colour ) (Eng 
lish ) ( 16 mm ) (U .S . A .). 


B /58438 


146-102) 


5 - 12 - 69 

U 
59663 


146 .40 (2 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


Czechoslovak Films, 
(Czechoslovakia ). 


" Zazili Jsme Beztizny 
Stay (State Of 
(Weightlessness ) 
(Czech ) (16 mm ) 
( Czechoslovakia ). 


cerere 


5 - 12 -69 


Do . 


B /58436 


Do. 


U 
59664 


182-80(2) 


" Barevne Kovy (Non 
Ferrous Metals ) 
(Czech ) ( 16 mm ) 
( Czechoslovakia ) . 


Do . 


Ferevne Kormoran 


5 - 12 -69 


U 


B /58441 


174 .00 (1) 


174-00(1) 


Do . 


“ Osciloskop (Oscillos 

cope )" (Czech ) ( 16 
mm ) ( Czechoslovakia ). 


Do. 


Do . 


59665 


B /58536 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1104 - A (Special )" 
(35 mm ) (India ) . 


243 .84 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt . 

of India , 24 , Peddar of India , Bombay - 26 . 
Road , Bombay - 26 . 


5 - 12 -69 

U 
59666 Valid for 14 ver 

sions. 
6 - 12 -69 

А 
2633 With triangle mark . 


B / 57347 


Robert 
Haso Germi, 


& 


3 -12-69 


“ The Bird , The Bees , 2865 .64 (12) 20th Century Fox Robert Haggiag 
And The Italians" 

Corp . ( 1 ) P . Ltd ., Pietro 
(Widescreen ) (Eng 

Metro House, M . G . (U . S . A .) . 
lish ) ( 35 mm ) 

Road , Bombay. 
(U . S . A .). 
Endorsement 

Original length - - 2868 . 17 m . 
Reel 11 - Delete the shots of a topless girl during the striptease act. — 2 - 53 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be - 2865 .64 m . 


B /57818 


2634 


“ Marlowe ” 
screen ) 
( English ) 
( U . S .A .) . 


(Wide - 
(Colour ) 
( 35 mm ) 


2666 .69 ( 12 ) Metro -Goldwyn Mayer Metro Goldwyn Ma 

India Ltd ., Metro yer , ( U . S . A .) . 
House , M . G . Road , 
Bombay . 


3 - 12 -69 


B / 57114 


Donen , 


2635 


“ Bedazzled ” 
vision ) 
( English ) 
U . S . A .). 


( Pana - 
(Colour) 
( 35 mm ) 


2816 .65 ( 11 ) 20th Century - Fox Stanley 

Corp . (I) P . Ltd ., (U .S . A .). 
Metro House , M , G . 
Road , Bombay . 


3 - 12 -69 


B /58327 


* Ha 


121 . 92 


Family Plan 
ning " 

( 16 mm ) 
( U . S . A . ). 


Wyeth Laboratories Made by International 
Ltd ., Steelcrete Planned Parenthood 
House, D . W . Road , Federation on Grants , 
Bombay - 20 . 

( U . S . A . ). 


A 
2636 

- 
5 - 12 -69 


Titles in English . 
No dialogue or 
commentary . Mu 
sic only . 


ENDORSEMENTS 

ALTERATION UNDER RULE 34 
B /57254 . 
Film " Mouse Trapped " (Colour) (English ), 
U - 57922 dt. 2nd August 1969 . 
This certificate is valid also for the exhibition of Black & White version of the film , 


PART III SEC . 4 ] 


ww 


2 


3 


S 


- 


The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 3rd December 1969 . 
B / 57255 . 
Film - - " Doc s Last Stand ” (Colour) (English ). 
U - 57923 dt. 2nd August 1969. 
This certificate is valid also for the exhibition of Black & White version of the film . 
The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 3rd December 1969. 

VERSIONS 
B / 58451 - 57 . 
Film — “ All Time Healer" (Colour) ( English ) 
U - 59499 dt. 18 - 11 - 69 . 
This certificate is valid also for Hindi, Marathi, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu , Kannada and Malayalam versions of the 

film in colour . The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 1st December 1969, 
B / 58468 - 73 
Film - — " The Complete Food " ( English ). 
U -59587 dt. 25 - 11 -69. 
This certificate is valid also for Hindi, Bengali, Tamil , Telugu , Kannada and Malayalam versions of the film . The 

length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 1st December 1969 . 
B /58444 - 50 . 
Film - " A Familt Friend " (Colour ) (English ). 
U - 59495 dt 18 - 11 - 69 . 
This certificate is valid also for Hindi, Marathi, Bengali , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada and Malayalam versions of the film 

in colour . The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 1st December 1969 . 

REFUSED CERTIFICATES 
" The Granada Grana 

830 ( 8 ) The U . S . S . R . Consu - Mosfilm Studios Pro . Refused by R . C . on 6th Decem 
da " ( English ) (U .S . 

late General, 20 , ductions , ( U .S .S . R . ). ber 1969 . 
S. R . ). ( 16 mm ) . 

Nepean Sea Road , 
Bombay -6 . 

CALCUTTA 


B /55497 


U 


C /6470 


58496 


Jogajog (Colour ) 22 -86 ( 1 ) Focus Films, 679 Focus Films, 679 
(Bengali ) ( 35 mm ) 

Block O New Ali - Block O New Ali . 
( India ) . 

pore , Calcutta - 53 . pore , Calcutta - 53 . 
Endorsement 

This certificate is valid also for the Marathi and Oriya versions of the film . 


2 - 12 - 69 


C /6469 


U 
58497 


Paheli Mulakat ( Col . ) 
(Hindi) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ). 


22 . 86 ( 1 ) Focus Films, 679 Focus Films, 679 

Block O New Ali - Block O New 
pore , Calcutta - 53 . pore, Calcutta - 53 . 


2 - 12 -69 


U 


C / 6468 


Aleyer Alo ( Bengali) 
( 35 mm ) ( India ). 


58498 


4176 .06 ( 15) Unit Productions of Unit Productions of 

India , 4 , Baburam India , 4 , Baburam 
Ghose Road , Cal- Ghose Road , Cal 
cutta - 40 . 

cutta - 40 . 


3 - 12 - 69 


C /6328 


58499 


Synthese De L Am 
moniac (French ) ( 16 
mm ) ( France ). 


219 ( 1) Cultural Counsellor, Ecole Normale Super 

French Embassy , New jourc, Saint Cloud . 
Delhi. 


5 - 12 -69 


C /6329 


175 ( 1) 


U 
58500 


Do . 


Fabrication Indus 
trielle de L Acid 
Sulfarique par le pro 
cede de Contact 
( French ) ( 16 mm ) 
(France ). 


5 : 12 - 69 


U 


C /6330 


315 ( 1) 


Do . 


58 Sun 


Les Interfereuces En 
Lumiere Naturelle 
(Colour) ( French ) 
(16 mm ) (France) . 


5 - 12 -69 


C /6332 


Acoustique des Thea 
tres Antiques ( Col .) 


247 ( 1) 


270 


Do. 


DO. 


U 
58502 


F . Canac . 


5 - 12 -69 


( France ) . 


299GI/ 70 - 14 


1796 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[PART III_ SEC . 4 


A 


vem 


MEN 


MADRAS 


M / 5798 


65022 


138 


Sukhajeevanamu 
( Telugu ) ( 35 mm ) 
B & W . (India ). 


mm ) 


367 .00 ( 1 ) Venkatranga Produc- Shri A . Venkateswar - 
tions, Hyderabad . lu and P . Ranga Rao , 

Hyderabad . 


orby Phone, Hyderabad. 


He and p.Ranga Kao, 


2 - 12 - 69 


M /5799 


Gandara Gandadu 4288 . 53 ( 16 ) Sanjeev ini F ilms, Shri G . Raman , Madras . 65023 With triangle mark . 
( Telugu ) (35 mm ) 

Madras. 
B . & W . (India ), 

4 - 12 - 69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 65023-U dated 4 -12- 69 issued to the film Gandara Gandadu ( Telugu ) 35 mm . 

B . & W 
Length as in the application - 4288 -53 Metres . 

Metres 
Cuts 
1. Reel 5 - -Delete the following shots in the dance in the Vasanta Mantapam : 
(a ) one girl exposing her legs upto the thigh (.304 ) . . . . 

3 . 04 
(b ) the prince putting his head on the bosom of the princess (1. 52 ) . . 1 . 52 
(c ) The prince passing his hand over the stomach of the Princess . . 1 52 

(Approved total replacement 6 :08 ) with sky shots . 
2 . Reel 10. -- Delete the following shots in the dance of Julapha . 

(a ) where she shows her bottom - backview — and shaking it vigor 
ously ( 1 . 52 ) . . . . 

1 .52 
(b ) where she presses her busts with the male (1.52) . . 

1 . 52 
(c ) where the male rests his chin on her bust (456 ) . . 

4 :56 
and (d ) where she beds her body and putting in between the legs of the 
male 

4 .56 
(Approved replacement 12 - 16 ) with close-up of artistes . 
3. Reel 14 - - Delete the following shots in the dance-song by the girl doing snake 

dance : 
(a ) shaking her bottom twice (3 04) . . 

3 .04 
and ( b ) shaking her breasts in a circular movement ( 3 .04 ) 

3 .04 
(Approved replacement 6 .08 ) , with close -up of the hero ) 

Total Cuts . . .. . . .. . . .. 24 - 32 
Actual length of the film , therefore remains the same , namely 42 - 88 - 53 Metres in 16 Reels . 


M / 5794 


Rest House (Malaya - 3944 .75 ( 14 ) Ganesh Productions, Shri K . P . Kottara - 65024 With triangle mark . 
lam ) ( 35 mm ) B & W . 

Madras . 

kara , Madras . 
(India ). 

5 - 12 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No . 65024- U dated 5th December 1969 --- issued to the film Rest House (Malayalam ). 

Length as in the arplicarion - 3956 .60 Metres . 
Cuts 

Metres 
1. Reel 1 -- Reduce the duration of the professor calling left, right", to the male stu 
dents before the girls . . . 

3 :34 
2 . Roel 2 - - Reduce the length of the sequence showing the boys going into the bath 

room , dressing room and bed - room where the lady students also go , to 
avoid the impression they are there simultaneously . . . . . . 

2 .43 
3. Reel 4 - Delete the dialogue of Appu " Ingane Poyal, Sari Thazhottu Veezhum " 0 .91 
4 . Reel 5 - -When the girls and boys fight for sitting at the dining table and the food 

is spilt , the girl ( Leela ) is shown falling to the ground . A1 that time 
she is shown with her breasts prominently . This should be deleted . . 0 .91 


1 .21 


1.52 


Radha . This should be deleted . (Replacement approved 1 .21) . . 
6 . Reel S. - Delete the dialogue of Sridharan where he refers to the five husbands 
of Panchali 

. . . 
7 . Reel 11 - - Delete the shot of the professor unbuttoning his bushshirt and exposing 
his hairy stomach to the lady teacher 

. . . . . . . . 
Total Cuts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


2 . 74 


13 .04 


M /5791 


Actual length of the film after cuts and replacementwill be 3944 .75 Metres in 14 Reels . 

U 
* Atthai Magal ( Tamil) 3837 .43 (15 ) Danabagyam Pictures, Danabagyam Pictures , 65025 With triangle mark , 
( 35 mm ) B & W . 

Madras . 

Madras . 
(India ). 

5 - 12 - 69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 65025-U dated 5th December 1969 - - issued to the film ‘ Athai Magal (Tamil) . 
Length as in the application — 3839 -25 Metres. 


on the 


PART III - SBC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1797 


w 


T 


2 


Cuts 


Metres 


2 . 74 


2 -43 


1. Reel 2 - Delete the backshot of a girl carrying two pots and shaking her bottom . 

(Approximate replacement 2 .74 ) i .. . . . . " 
2 . Reel 11 -- Song 3- Delete the shaking of breasts in Prabha s dance. (Approved 

replacement 2 .43) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
3 . Reel 12 – Delete the dialogue of D . D . saying that he is also a woman and looking 

at his breasts 
4 . Reel 15 _ Song 4 - Delete all shots of the male dressed as a female appearing 
therein . (Approved replacement with changed dress for the male ) . . 

Total Cuts . . . . . . . . . 


1 .82 


128 .00 


134 .99 


OM 


Total approved replacement in the film — 133 -17 Metres . 
Actual length of the film after cuts and replacement is 3837.43 Metres in 15 Reels, 


M / 5896 


Trailer of Rest House 
(Malayalam ) ( 35 mm ) 
B . & W . 


110 -63 (1) Ganesh Productions, Shri K . P . Kottarakara , 
Madras . 

Madras. 


65026 


5 - 12 - 69 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 

13th December , 1969 : 


BOMBAY 


U 
59667 


B / 58316 


" Do Bhai” (Colour) 

(Hindi ) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ). 


4306 - 21 (16 ) Brij Sadanah , Dynamo Brij Sadanah , Dynamo 

International 217 / A , International, Bom 
Famous Cine Bidg., bay- 11 . 
Mahalaxmi, Bom 
bay -11 . 


B /58540 


59668 


Trailer of " Isha Par 
Zor Nahin " (Colour ) 
(Hindi) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ) . 


125 (1) Prestige Films, 163, Prestige Films, Bom 

Lamington Road , bay -7 . 
Bombay - 7 . 


8 - 12 -69 


U 
59669 


B /58499 


176 ( 2 ) 


“ Diamond Powders 
And Pastes " ( Colour) 
(Japanese ) ( 16 mm ) 
(U . K . ). 


L P E - Aivars Pvt . Industrial Diamond 
Ltd . , 7th floor. Nir - Information Bureau , 
mal Nariman Nari . London , ( U . K .) . 
man Point, Bombay - 1 , 


8 - 12-69 


B /58382 


Morash , 


59670 


“ The Dynamics Of 
Leadership ( Anatomy 
Of A Group ) ” (Eng 
lish ) ( 16 mm ) (U .S .A .). 


329 . 17 (3) National Education Russell 

& Information Films ( U . S . A .). 


8 - 12 -69 


Tulloch Road , Bom 


bay , 


B /58381 


329 .17 (3 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


59671 


“ The Dynamics Of 

Leadership (Indivi 
dua ) Motivation and 
Behaviour )” (English ) 
( 16 mm ) ( U .S . A . ) . 


8 - 12 - 69 


B / 58437 


106 .68 ( 1 ) 


106 - 68 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


59672 


Kratky Film Praha, 
(Czechoslovakia ). 


“ Elektronova Vodivost 
( Conductivity Of 
Electrons ) " (Czech ) 
(16 mm ) (Czechoslo 
vakia ). 


8 -12-69 


B /58380 


329 . 17 (3) 


Do . 


Russell 

(U .S.A .). 


Morash , 


59673 


" The Dynamics of 

Leadership (Road 
blocks To Communi 
cation )" ( English ) 
( 16 mm ) (U . S. A .). 


8 - 12 -69 


B /58328 


152 - 40 ( 2 ) 


59674 


“ Bertrand Russell : 
Discusses Philoso 
phy (English ) (16 
mm ) ( U .C . A . ). 


8 - 12- 09 


Educational & Scienti - Coronet Instructional 

fic Equipments Pvt. Films, (U . S . A .). 
Ltd . , C / o National 
Education & Infor 
mation Films, Ltd . 
National House , Tul 
loch Road , Bombay . 


A 


WECHA 


1798 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


[PART III -- Sec . * 


ir 


- 


MY 


2 


S . 


6 


www 


B / 57896 


U 
59675 


" Desert 

(English ) 
(Australia ). 


People " 
( 16 mm ) 


570 (1 ) Australian High Com - Australian Common 
mission , New Delhi, wealth Film Unit , 

Australia , 


9 - 12 -69 


B /58307 


159 ( 1 ) 


U 
59676 


Do . 


" Golf In Australia 
(Colour) (English ) 
(16 mm ) (Australia ). 


9 - 13-69 


B / 57901 


240(1) 


Do , 


Do. 


59677 


“ Valley Deep -Moun 
tain High " ( Colour ) 
( English ) ( 16 mm ) 
(Australia ). 


9 - 12 -69 


B /57897 


100(1) 


100 (1 ) 


Do , 


Do. 


59678 


" Five Aboriginal Dan 
ces From Cape York " 
( Colour ) (English ) 
( 16 mm ) (Australia ). 


9 -12 -69 


U 
59679 With triangle mark . 


B / 58501 


" Kanku " (Gujarati) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


4053 50 (16 ) Kantilul Rathod , Kantilo ] Rathod, 

Bhulabhai Institute , Akar Films, Bon 
89 , Bhulabhai Desai bay - 26 . 
Road , Bombay-26 . 


9 - 12-69 


Endorsement 

Original length - 4053 84 m . 


B /57115 


0 :34 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be - 4053 - 50 m . 

U 
Trailer of " Bedazzled " 69 -32 (1) 20th Century Fox Stanicy Duneni , 

59680 With triangle maik . 
(Widescreen ) ( Colour ) ; 

Corp . (I) P . Ltd , Me- ( U . S . A .). 
(English ) ( 35 mm ) tro House , M . G . 

9 - 12 -69 
( U . S .A .) . 

Road , Bombay . 
Endorsement- - 

Original length – 72 .84 m . 
1 . Delete the shot showing Moon digging his face into the bosom of the dancer. - 0 .72 m . 
2 . Reduce to a flash the views of the dancer in scantily clad costume during her performance . - 2 .80 m . 

(Length retained _ 0 .49 m ). 
Length of deletions_ - 3 .52 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will bem -69 .32 m . 


U 


B /58553 -56 “ Vettri-In -Rahasyam " 

(Colour) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


29 . 87 (1 ) Mahendra Batra , 1 , Focus Filnis , O Block , 

Bajrang Nivas , Santa - New Airport, Cal- 
cruz East, Bombay -53 . cutta -53 . 


59681 Valid for Tamil, 
- - - Telugu , Kannada 
9 - 12 -69 & Malayalam ver 

sions . 


B /58538 


" Shadow " 

(English ) 
( India ). 


(Colour ) 
(35 mm ) 


59682 


30 .48 ( 1 ) Richardson Hindustan 

Ltd . , Ticcicion House , 
Dr. E . Moses Road, 
Bombay - 1 . 


Jyoti G . Thakur, Film 
Media , 47 , Laxmi In 
surance Bldg., Sir 
P . M . Road , Bombay 
1 . 


9 - 12 - 69 


30 - 4 8 ( 1 ) 


59683 Valid 


for Hindi, 


B / 58525 - 29 " The Long 

(Colour ) 
(India ). 


Chase " 
(35 mm ) 


The Atlas Cycle Indus - United Film Makers . 
tries Ltd . 

House , Palton Road , 
Bombay- 1 . 


9 - 12 -69 


Telugu & Kannada 
versions . 


B / 58530 


64( 1 ) 


59684 


Trailer of " Anokhi 
Raat" (Hindi) (35 
mm ) (India ). 


L . B . Lachman , L . B . L . B . Lachman , L . B . 
Films, Goverdhan Films, Bornbay - 4 . 
Bldg ., No . 2 , Parekh 
Street, Bombay 4 . 


9 - 12 -69 


B /58542 


59685 


S The Cities : A City 
Is To Live In - Part 
I & II " (Colour) 
(English ) ( 16 mm ) 
(U . S.A .). 


590 .70 ( 2 ) U . S . Information Ser- CBS News , ( U . S . A .). 

vice , Fazal Bhay 
House , Marine Lines, 
Bombay . 


9 -12 -69 


Part III - SEC. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA .2 , 1892) 


1799 


I 


4 


s 


5 


6 


LES 


B /57897 


(Colour ) 
( 16 mm ) 


210 (1) 


U 
59686 


" Canberra " 
(English ) 
(Australia ). 


Australian High Australian Common 
Commission ,New Delhi, wealth Film Unit , 

(Australia ). 


9 - 12 - 69 


U 


B /58141 


59687 


** President Nixon In 
New Delhi" ( English ) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


479 .45 ( 1) Films Division , Govt . Films Division , Govt . 

of India , 24 , Peddar of India , Bombay - 26 . 
Road , Bombay - 26 . 


9 - 12 -69 


B /55829 


351 -002 ) 


381 . 00 ( 2 ) 


Do . 


" It s A Small World ” 

(35 mm ) (India ). 


Do . 


Do. 


59688 


Valid for 14 versions. 


9 - 12 -69 


B / 58143 


316 .99 (2 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


U 
59689 


" Prime Minister Indira 
Gandhi s Visit TO 
Indonesia " (English ) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


9 - 12 - 69 


B /58517 


59690 


" The Top Wear For 

Top Men " (Colour ) 
(Punjabi) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ). 


30 -48 ( 1) Durga Khote Produc- Durga Khote Produc 

tions, India House , tions, Bombay - 1 . 
1st floor , Fort Street, 
Bombay- 1 . 


9 - 12 -69 


B /58543 


U 
59691 


" Bulls Eye For Apollo 
12 " (English ) ( 16 mm ) 
(U .S . A .). 


247 .50 ( 1) U . S . Information Ser- United States Infor 
vice , Fazal Bhaymation 

Agency , 
House , Marine Lines, (U .S . A .). 
Bombay . 


9- 12 -69 


U 


B /58303 


59692 


" The Pictures That 
Moved " (English ) (16 
mm ) (Australia ). 


498 ( 1 ) Australian High Com - Australian Common 
mission , New Delhi, wealth Film Unit , 

(Australia ) . 


9 - 12 -69 


B /58520 


Films, 


59693 With triangle mark . 


Trailer of “ Yakeen " 
( Colour ) (Hindi) 
(35 mm ) (India ) . 


81 .08( 1 ) Navaratna Films, Navaratna 

290 , Lamington Road , Bombay - 7 . 
Bombay - 7 . 


10 - 12 -69 


Endorsement 

Original length — 85 .65 m . 
Delete the opening close shot of the dancer in scanty dress performing and the later two shots of the dancer with bare 

back to camera performing on the table . -4 . 57 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be - 81•08 m . 


B /58537 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1105 ( 35 mm ) 
( India ). 


160 .00 (1 ) Films Division , Gyot. Films Division , Govt, 

of India , 24 , Peddar of India , Bombav- 26 . 
Road , Bombay - 26 


59694 . Valid for 14 ver 
- 

sions . 
10 - 12 -69 


U 


B / 57630 


Heart ” 
( 16 mm ) 


1122( 10 ) 


Studio , 


" Mother s 
(Punjabi) 
(U . S .S . R .) . 


59695 


The U . S.S.R . Consul- Gorky Film 
ate General, 20 Ne. (U . S .S . R .). 
pean Sea Road , Bom 


10 - 12-69 


bay . 


B /58310 


59656 


“ The Admittance " 
(English ) ( 16 mm ) 
(Canada ). 


495 (1 ) Office of the High 

Commissioner for 
Canada , New Delhi. 


The National Film 
Board of Canada , 

(Canada ). 


10- 12-69 


B /58314 


“ Fluxes” ( English ) 
( 16 mm ) (Canada ). 


271 (1) 


Do. 


Do 


59697 


10 - 12 -69 


U 


B /58550 


“ Whiteness 
( English ) 
(India ) . 


Contest " 
( 35 mm ) 


59698 


30 .48 ( 1) Radio Advertising Ser . Radio Advertising Ser . 

vices , Cecil Court , vices, Bombay - 1 . 
Landsdowne Road , 
Bombay - 1. 


10 - 12 -09 


B /58313 


1 


59699 


" Tax Is Not A Four 
Letter Word ” (Col 
our ) (English ) ( 16 
mm ) (Canada ). 


107( 1) Office of the High 

Commissioner For 
Canada , New Delhi. 


The National Film 
Board Of Canada , 
( Canada ). 


10 - 12 -09 


1802 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[PART III - SEC . 4 


www 


2 


6 7 
Endorsement on Certificate No . 65029- U dated 9th December 1969 -- issued to the film ‘MinnalMohini (Tamil). 

Length as in the application -- 3962 - 40 Metres . 
Cuts 

Metres 
1. Reel 3 - Song 1 - Delete the shots where the dancer shakes her bottom and 

breasts , and makes sideways movements with her hips in the first , 
second and third stanzas. ( a ) beginning with the words "Mayakkam 
Manakka Vendumo ; (b ) En Paruvathil . . . . Pudimoham Thudikku 
dha ; (c ) Kadhal Vazhvai. . . . Kaalum Thudikkiratha . (Approved re 
placement of crowds reaction ) . . . . . . . . . . . . 

7 . 61 
2 . Reel 10 - Song 5 - Delete the following ( u ) Sound of kissing (sound only ) ; (b ) 

where the male lifts one leg of the dancer with his hands ; ( c ) Scene in 
the river where he lefts her bodily . (Raplacement with crowd reaction 
for ( b ) and with water -background for (c ) . . 

. . . . 

7 .61 


Total cuts 


. . 


. . 


. . 


.. 


.. 


. . 


. . 


15 :22 


Actual length of the film after cuts and approved replacements, therefore remains the same, namely 3963 - 40 Metres in 14 

Reels . 


M /5773 


65030 


P . E . 


‘ Power with Precision 
(English ) ( 16 mm ) 
B & W . ( Australia ) . 


228 -60 (1 ) Shri P . V . Chandra . Australian Common 

sekharan , 10 - B , Go . wealth Film Unit , 
palapuram , First St ., Australia . 
Madras - 6 . 


10 - 12 -69 


U 
65031 P . E . 


N /5776 


"Ugly Duckling (Eng . 
lish ) ( Technicolour ) 
( 16 mm ) (England ). 


106 .98 (1 ) Rev . Michael B . Du - Training Walt Disney 

raiswamy, Basic Productions Ltd ., 
School, Tindivanam . England. 


11- 12 -69 


U 


M / 5819 


65032 


P . E . 


Flag Day Appeal 

( Tamil) (35 mm ) 
B & W . ( India ). 


183 . 00 ( 1 ) Collector of Madras , Collector of Madras, 
Madras - 1 . 

Madras - ) . 


11- 12 -69 


M / 5804 


3978 . 86 


65033 With triangle mark . 


Pratheekarain ( Telu 
gu ) (35 mm ) B & W . 
( India ). 


Sri Radhakrishna Pro - Sri Radhakrishna Pro . 
ductions. 4 . First ductions, 4 , First 
Main Road , Madras- Main Road , Madras- 
24 . 

24 . 


12 - 12 -69 


Endorsement on Certificate No. 65033-U dated 12th December 1969 – issued to the film Pratheekaramº (Telugu ) 

35mm B & W . 
Length as in the application — 3995 .92 Metres . 


Cuts 


Metres 


1 . Reel 3 - Delete the following shots when Mohan and Radha make loves : ( a ) 

he putting his hand on her left thigh and ciressing ; (b ) both of 
them lying over each other (2 shots ) . . 


2. Reell operato 


1 . 52 
3 . 64 
1 .21 


2 : 13 


0 .60 


2 . Reel 4 - Delete the shot showing naked statue of the ladyan .. . . 
3 . Reel 6 -- Delete two shots showing a girl on the bed (Rani) showing her breasts 

in a very pointed manner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
4 . Reel 6 - Delete the shot of the man being stabbed directly with the knife, on 
his body . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . 
5 . Reel 9 _ Delete the shot of Mohan touching the body of Rani in the bath tub 

with soap lather . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 
6 . Reel 9 _ Delete the shot of Mohan putting his head on the bust of Radha .. 
7 . Reel 10Delete the dialogue of Kaka " Aa musaladu emi chesthede ; chesthe 

memi cheyyaliganj" . . . . .. . . . . .. . . 
8 . Reel 12 – Delete the shot of the cook (Eka) touching the lady s portrait (with 

exposed bust) and kissing his finger .. . . .. . . . . 
9 . Reel 12 -- Delete Mohan s dialogue God has another name, that is devil . 

Total cuts . . .. .. .. .. .. 


3• 
3 .95 
1 :21 


0 .68 


0 . 91 
1 :21 
17 06 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be 3978 -86 Metres in 16 Reels. 


FART III - SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1803 


. 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


BOMBAY 


U 


B /58949 


60002 


" Safedi Ka Mukabala " 
(Hindi) ( 35 mm .) 
(India ). 


30 .48 (1) Radio Advertising Ser- Radio Advertising Ser 

vices, Cecil Court, vices, Bombay - 1 . 
Landsdown Road , 
Bombay-1. 


15 - 12 -69 


B /58539 


U 
60003 


" Sachaai” 
(Hindi) 
( India ), 


(Colour ) 
(35 mm ) 


4724 .40 ( 19) EM . CER . Films, N . C . Ramamurthy, 

126 , Hind Rajasthan Bombay - 14 . 
Building, Dadar Main 
Road , Dadar, Bom 
bay - 14 . 


15- 12 -69 


B /58308 


60004 


" Indian Relocation : 
Elliot Lake " (Eng 
lish ) (16 mm ) 
(Canada ). 


336 ( 1) Office of the High 

Commissioner for 
Canada 
New Delhi. 


The National Film 
Board of Canada 
(Canada ). 


15 - 12 -69 


U 
60005 


51IIIIIII 


B / 58304 


198 .00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


“ Atlantic Parks" 
( Colour) ( English ) 
( 16 mm ) (Canada ). 


15 -12 -69 


B /58307 


313 . 00 (1) 


U 
60006 


Do . 


“ More Homes For 
More 

People " 
(Colour ) ( English ) 
( 16 mm ) (Canada ). 


15 - 12 -69 


U 


B / 58309 


316 .00 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


60007 


“ The Invention of 

The Adolescent " 
(English ) ( 16 mm ) 
(Canada ) . 


15 -12 -69 


U 
60008 


B /58352 


Trailer of “ Before 
Winter Comes" 
(Colour ) (English ) 
(35 mm ) ( U . S . A . ). 


77 . 11 ( 1 ) Columbia Films of Robert Emmett Ginna 

India Ltd . Metro (U . S . A .) . 
House, M . G . Road , 
Bombay . 


15 -12-69 


B /58487 


U 
60009 


" Image of Progress " 
( Colour) (English ) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


646 .18 (2) Agfa -Gevaert India Homi D . Sethna , 

Ltd . 41-New Marine Film Makers, 67 
Lines , Bombay - 20 . Bhulabhai Desai Rd. , 

Bombay- 26 . 


16 - 12 -69 


B /58583 

- 85 


" Works Better -Works 

Faster " (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


22 .86 (1) Triveni, S/8, College Triveni, Bombay - 19 . 

Road , Matunga , 
Bombay-19. 


U 
60010 

- 
16 - 12 -69 


VAN 


Valid for English , 

Tamil & Sinhalese 
versions. 


U 


B /58605 


175 . 


DIVI 


60011 Valid for 14 versions. 


" Indian News Re 
view No . 1106 " (35mm ) 
( India ) . 


1 ) Films Division , Films Division , 

Govt. of India , Govt. of India , 
24 , Peddar Road , Bombay - 26 . 
Bombay - 26 . 


17 -12 -69 


B /58588 


“ Mahitichitra No . 
116 " (Gujarati ) 
( 35 mm ) (India ) 


257( 1 ) Director of Informa- Director of Informa 

60012 
tion , Government of tion , Government of - 
Gujarat, Sachivalya , Gujarat, Ahmeda. 17 - 12 - 69 
Ahmedabad - 15 . bad - 15 . 


U 


B /58590 


379 .68 ( 2 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


60013 


" Gujarat Na Bundaro " 
(Gujarati) (35 mm ) 
(India ) . 


17 - 12 -69 


U 
60014 


B /58567 


" Sampuran 
(Hindi) 
( India ) . 


Aahar ” 
( 35 mm ) 


29 .87 ( 1) Advertising & Sales 

Promotion Co . Steel- 
crete House D . W . 
Road , Bombay - 1 . 


F . B . Productions, 
Film Centre , 
Tardeo Road , Bom - 
bay - 34 , 


17 - 12 -69 


U 


B /57782 


60015 With triangle mark , 


Trailer of " Isadora 
(Colour ) ( English ) 
(35 mm ) (U . S . A . ) . 


88 .70 ( 1) Universal Pictures Universal Pictures 

India Private Ltd ., Company Inc. New - 
Metro House , M . G . York , ( U . S . A . ) . 
Road , Bombay. 


17 - 12 -69 


ANA 


M2996I/70 — 15 


1804 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


[PART III - SEC . 


- 


MU 

NUM 
Com 


PPS 


(2) 


(3) 


(4 ) 


(5 ) 


(6 ) 


(7) 


MAC 


Endorsement 


Original length : - 102 .41 m . 


1. Delese shots of Isadora dancing in nude. - 4 .57 m . 
2 . Rerluce to minimum the love making of Isadora and Craig and her suggestive dirce poses in the flash 

back - 6 .40 m . ( Length retained - 2 . 74 m .). 


3 . Delete the front views of Isadora in dark - blue dress in which her b re body is scen prominently what she is 

dancing.---- 2 . 74 ni. 


Length of deletions — 13 .71 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be -- 88 . 70 m . 


U 


29 .87 (1) 


B /58591 - 

934 


60016 


" Buddhisaali Viv : sa 
yikal Everest Asbes 
tos Cement Yup 
Ayokikishrka )" ( Col.) 
(35 mm ) (India ) 


Trio Films, Jyoti Trio Films, Bombay - 7 . 
Studio , Kennedy 
Bridge , Bombay - 7 . 


17 - 12 -69 


Valid for T : mil . 
Tclugu , Kanni da 
and Malayalam 
versions, 


29 .87 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do. 


B /58594 -95 “ Buddhiman Chasi 

Everest Asbestos 
Czment Bebhor 
Karoon " (Colour ) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


60017 Valid for Bengali , 

& Hindi versions. 
17 - 12 -69 


B /58361 


60018 


“ Satyakam ” (Colour ) 
(Hindi) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


4479 . 95 ( 18 ) S . J. S. Punchhe , S. J. S . Punchhe, 

Punchhe Arts Ina Juhu Church , Juhu , - 
tern . tional, Seksaria Bomb: y -54 . 
Bungalow , Juhu 
Church , Juhu , Bom 
bay -54 . 


18- 12 -69 


B /58601 -04 


“ Joy Of Life ” 
(Colour ) (35 mm ) 
(India). 


30 . 48 ( 1 ) Jay Key Advertisers , Jay Kay Advertisers, 

Rockside , Walkesh - Bombay - 6 . 
W ?r Road , Bombay -6 . 


U 
6C019 Vilid for English , 

Hindi, Gujati 
18 - 12-69 and Marathi 

versions. 


30 .48 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


B /58597 -600 “ Thou Shalt Forever 

Ве Prosperous" 
(Colour) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


60020 Valid for English , 

- - Hindi , Gujarati 
18 - 12 -69 and Marathi 

versions , 


B /58513 


U 
60021 


“ A Funny Thing 
Happened On The 
Way " ( English ) 
(16 mm ) (U . S .A .). 


304 .80 (1 ) Theodore Bowling Insight (Jhon Newland ) 

S . J . De Nobili (U .S . A .). 
College , Poona - 14 . 


18- 12 -69 


B /58511 


304 •80 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


60022 


" Don t Elbow Me 
Off The Earth " 
(English ) ( 16 mm ) 
( U . S . A .) . 


18 - 12 -69 


B /58512 


" Man In 
dle " 


The Mid 


304 . 80 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


60023 


(16 mm ) (U .SEnglish ) 


18 - 12 -69 


B /58510 


304 - 80 ( 1 ) 


60024 


" A Thief Named 
Dismus " (English ) 
(16 mm ) ( U . S . A .) . 


Theodore Bowling Insight ( John Funia ) 
S , J . De Nobili ( U . S . A . ), 
College , Poona - 14 . 


18 - 12 -69 


U 
60025 


B /58617 


“ Shubhratechi Spar 
dha " (Marathi) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


30 .48 ( 1 ) Radio Advertising Radio Advertising 

Services , Cecil , Court, Services, Bombay - 1 . 
Lindsdown Road , 
Bombay - 1. 


18 - 12 -69 


B /58616 


30 .48 ( 1 ) 


Do , 


Do . 


60026 


“ Safed Dholaini 
Spardha ” (Gujarati ) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


18 - 12 - 69 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


PÁRT III - SEC . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1805 


( 1 ) 


(3) 


(4 ) 


B /58618 


30 -48 (1 ) 


Do. 


60027 


" Shubratar Protijo 
gita " ( Bengali ) 
( 35 mm ) (India ). 


19 - 12 -69 


B /58619 


30 . 48 (1) 


60028 


" Bilupina Spardhe " 
(Kannada ) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ). 


19 - 12 -69 


B /58620 


30 . 48 ( 1 ) 


U 
60029 


Do . 


" Venmayakkan Oru 
Mulsaram ” (Mala 
yalam ) ( 35 mm ) 
( India ). 


19 - 12 -69 


U 


B /58622 


91 44 ( 1) 


60030 


Trailer 
Bh li 
(Hindi) 
( India ). 


of “ Do 

(Colour ) 
( 35 mm ) 


Chandra Mohan , Brij Sadnah , 217 / A , 
Evergreen Hotel, Famous Cine Bldg. - 
Khar , Bombay . 

Mahalaxmi, Bom - 
bay - 1. 


19- 12 -69 


B /58349 


60031 


“ Run Wild , Run 
Free " (Colour ) 
( English ) (35 mm ) 
U . S. A . ). 


2771 - 55 ( 5 ) Columbia Films of John Danischewsky, 

India Ltd ., Metro ( U . S . A .) . 
House , M , G . Road, 
Bombay. 


20 - 12 -69 


B / 58350 


20. ) 


90 53 ( 1 ) 


De 


Trailer of “ Run 
Wild , Run Free " 
( Colour ) (English ) 
(35 mm ) (U . S . A . ). 


Dec 


Do , 


60032 


20 - 12 -69 


B / 58596 


30 . 48 (1 ) 


U 
60033 


“ Billy ” 

(Hindi) 
( India ). 


( Colour ) 
( 35 mm ) 


B . P . Srivastava , 
Seven Arts , 6 , Air 
Conditioned Market , 
Tardeo , Bombay -34 . 


B . P . Srivastava , 
Seven Arts , Bem 
bay- 34 . 


20 - 12 -69 


U 
60034 


B /58575 


" Justice Black And 
The Bill of Righis " 
(Colour ) (English ) 
(16 mm ) (U .S . A .). 


567 -54 (2 ) United States In - CBS News, ( U .S . A .) . 

formation Service , 
4 . New Marine Line . 
Bombay- 20 . 


cho em 


20 -12 -69 


B / 58579 


252.041) 


252 . 07 ( 1 ) 


DO. 


Do . 


“ The Student Scene : 
69 (An Interview 
with Seymour Lip 
set) ( English ) ( 16 
mm ) ( U . S . A .). 


USIA Washington , 
D . C . ( U . S . A . ). 


60035 


20 -12-69 


B / 58578 


245 . 36 ( 1 ) 


" Library 
ress" 
(English ) 
(U . S . A . ) . 


245-360) 


Do. 


of Cong 

(Colour ) 
(16 mm ) 


Do. 


U 
Encyclopaedia Bri- 60036 
tannica Educational - 
Corporation ,( U . S . A .). 20 - 12- 69 


B /58580 


235 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


U 
.60037 


Donald Wrye , (U . S. A .) 


" An Impression Of 

John Steinbeck : 
Writer" (Colour ) 
( English ) ( 16 mm ) 
U . S . A . ). 


20 - 12 -69 


B / 58547 


“ Bikini Beach ” (Pana 
vision ) (Colour ) 
( English ) (35 mm ) 
(U . S . A . ). 


2803 - 55 ( 12 ) Mudnaney Film Ser - American 

vice , Kathoke Lodge , tional 
Main Road , Dadar , ( U . S . A . ) . 
Bombay - 14 . 


Interna- 
Pictures , 


60038 
e 
20 - 12 - 69 


B /58548 


71 . 63 ( 1 ) 


11.630) 


Do . 


Trailer 
Beach " 
( English ) 
U . S. A .). 


Do . 


U 
60039 


of Bikini 

(Colour ) 
(35 mm ) 


Do 


Do 


60039 


20 - 12 -69 


U 


B /58515 


60040 


" The Sandalmaker ” 
(English ) ( 16 mm ) 
( U . S .A .) 


304 . 80 ( 1 ) Theodore Bowling Insight (Jhon Newland) 

S . J. Do Nobili (U . S .A . ), 
college , Poona - 14 . 


20 -12 - 69 


- 


- 


- 


1806 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


(PART III - SEC - 4 


AL 


UMNMM 


(3) 


(4 ) 


(5 ) 


M 


B /58198 


U 
60041 


" The Science Re- 
port 94 - A " (English ) 
(16 mm ) ( U . S . A . ). 


149 .65 (1 ) U . S . Information Robert Foster , 

Service , Fazal Bhoy ( U . S . A .). 
House , Marine Lines , 
Bombay . 


20 - 12 -69 


B / 56719 


1083 . 87 (3 ) Universal 


Pictures Joe 


Connelly 


and 


2637 


“ Munster, Go Home !" 
(Colour ) (English ) 
( 16 mm ) (U . S . A . ). 


15- 12 - 69 


Metro House , M . G . 
Rd . , Bombay . 


A 


B / 56815 


1008 27 (3 ) 


Do . 


2638 


* The Ghose and 
Mr. 

Chicken " 
( colour) (English ) 


Edwards J .Montagne, 
( U . S . A .) . 


15 -12 -69 


B / 58312 


“ Illegal 

(English ) 
(Canada). 


Abortion ” 
( 16 mm ) 


286( 1) Office of The High The National Film 2639 

Commissioner for Board of Canada , - 
Canada , New Delhi. (Canada) . 

17 - 12 -69 


B / 57781 


2640 


With triangle mark . 


“ Isadora (Loves of 
Isadora )" (Colour ) 
( English ) (35 mm ) 
( U . S . A . ) . 


3591. 77(17) Universal Pictures Universal Pictures 

India Pvt. Ltd . , Company Inc . New - 
Metro House , M . G . York , ( U . S . A . ). 
Rd . Bombay . 


17 - 12 - 69 


Endorsement 
Original length : 3624 . 38 m . 
Reel - - Delete the sequence in which Isadora is shown dancing in nude in the studio of 

Craig . - 22 . 86 m . 
Reel VIII - Delete the shots showing bare bossom of Isadora , while she is giving her dance performance 

on the stage in Boston . - 9 . 75 m 
Length of deletions. — 32 . 61 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions willbe. - 3591. 77 m . 


ENDORSEMENTS 


VERSIONS 
B / 58277 . 
Film .-- " Wheat Rust" (English ). 
U -29385 , dt. 1- 5 -60 . 
This certificate is valid also for Hindi version of the film . The length of the film remains unaltered . 
This certificate was endorsed on 15th December 1969. 

CORRECTION 
B /55817 . 

Film .- - " Mera Dost ” (Hindi) . 
U - 56702 , dt, 11 - 3 -69. 
Number of reels on the face of the certificate may be read as 14 instead of 16 . The length of the film 

remains unaltered . 
This certificate was endorsed on 15th December 1969 . 

REFUSED CERTIFICATE 


B / 55503 


“ October" ( English ) 
( 16 mm ) ( U . S . S . R . ). 


1142 (10 ) The U . S . S . R . Con - Mosfilin Studios, Refused 
sulate General, ( U . S . S . R . ). 

By 
20 , Nepean Sea Road , 

R . C . on 
Bombay - 6 . 

19 - 12 -69 
CALCUTTA 

U 
63 . 15 (1 ) Filmlet Advertising , Asok Bagchi and 58511 

109 , Bidhan Sarani, Aloke Nath Bagchi, — 
Calcutta - 4 . 

C / o Filmlet Adver - 15 - 12 -69 
tising, 109 , Bidhan 
Sarani, Calcutta - 4 . 


C /6479 


Thakavat- Ki-Rukavat 
(Colour ) (Hindi) 
( 35 mm ) (India ). 


U 


C /6478 


Shasti (Bengali) (35 
mm ) ( India ) . 


58512 


3054 .41 ( 11 ) Chhaya Lipi , 95 , Rash Sujit Sarkar , 95, 

Behari Avenue , Rash Behari Avenue , - 
Calcutta - 29 . 

Calcutta - 29 . 


15 - 12 -69 


PART III — Sec . 4 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1807 


- 


LAME 


LAR 


LLLL 


( 1 ) 


(2 ) 


(3 ) 


(4 ) 


(5) 


(6) 


(7) 


C /6385 


2702 


With triangle mark . 


Pyaar (Hindi) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ). 


3818 - 21 (15 ) Film Makers , Tech - Chhaganalal, Clo Te 

nicians Studio ( P ) chnicians Studio 
Ltd . , Calcutta - 40 . ( P ) Ltd ., Cal - 

cutta -40 . 


15 -12-69 


Metres 


5 . 79 


73 . 98 


Endorsement. 
Original length of the film . — 3 ,931 . 92 metres. 

Cuts 
1 . Reel 1 . -- Delete the shots in which Phulva , scantily clothed , is shown 

lying on the lap of Champa in water , on which a credit title is 

superimposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
2 . Reel 2 .- - Delete entirely the picturisation of the song beginning with the 

words " Meri Jaan akad yah husn tera . . . . . 

( Replaced with approved shots.- - 73 . 98 ) 
3 . Delete the scene in the bath - room from the point when Kiran 

unties her towel and bra to the point when she meets Ratan out 

side the door . . . 
4 . Reel 3. - Delete the underlined words from the following dialogues of 

Champa addressed to Kiran : " Huzoor ka gulam . . . . . . Har 
Marz ki dava " . . . . . 

. . . . . 
5 . Reel 3. - Delete entirely the scene (both picturization and dialogues ) 

in which the Family Planning Doctor examines patients in an 
objectionable manner 

. 
6 . Reel 3 . - Delete the shots in which Phulva , scantily clothed , is shown 


11 . 27 


1 . 52 


4 . 87 


2 . 43 


7 . 27 


7 . 27 


4 . 26 


4 . 26 


4 . 87 


the lips . . . . 
7 . Reel 4 . -- Delete the shots in which Champa and Phulya change their 

dresses at the stream and Ratan takes a photograph . . 
8 . Reel 4 . - ( a ) From the picturization of the song beginning with the words 

“ Akad ke kahan chale meri jaan . . . . . . " delete ( 1 ) Ratan 
moving his hand freely on Phulva s chest ( ii) Various 
kissing gestures between them , and ( iii) close embrace and 
their cuddling . . . . . . . . 

( Replaced with approved shots. - 7 . 62 metres ). 
(b ) From the wordings of the same song, 

delete the following : 

‘Hamare pahloo main aao . . . . . . yakin hai pyas 
buzhaaoge . . . . . . . . " . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

( Replaced with approved shots . - 4 . 26 metres) . 
9 Reel 4 . - - Delete the shots in which Phulva places her legs on Ratan while 

both of them are lying on the cot in her house . . . . 
10 . Reel 5 . – From the picturisation of the song beginning with the words 

" Tu kaisi been bajaye re . . . . . . . . . . ” delete the indecorous 
hip movements by Phulva and other girls and the suggestion 
of kiss between Ratan and Phulva . . . . . . . . . . 

( Replaced with approved shots. - 4 . 87 metres). 
11 . Reel 6 . - Delete the underlined words from the following dialogue bet 

ween Ratan and Phulva : 
Ratan : " Haan . . . . . .Bol., ah shadi karogi pas 
Phulva : " Haan . . . . . . Vada kar loongi tuzhse bhi aur 

tere baap se bhi" 
12. Reel 8. - (a ) From the picturisation of the song beginning with the words 

" Yah thandi hava . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " delete : 
(i) the suggestion of kiss between Ratan and Phulva 

wherever it occurs. 
( ii ) their cuddling and rolling one over the other ; and 
(iii) the shots in which they are seen in compromising 

position in water . . 

( Replaced with approved shotş . - 11 . 27 metres). 
(6 ) From the wordings of the same song delete the underlined 

words : 
"Aise main agar ho meet mera, dam bhar to mile do 
kaaya . . . .. .. . .." 

( Replaced with approved shot. - -0 . 91 metres) 
13. Reel 9 . - Delete (i ) the shot in which Shankar embraces Kiran from 

behind while she is sitting on a sofa and ( ii) the shot in which 

the pallu of her sari falls and she tries to adjust it 
14 . Reel 9 . - -Delete entirely the scene ( including the dialogue ) in which the 

frustrated family planning doctor examines an ass and sug 
gests that it needs family planning . ( There is no objection 
to the shots in which the ass is drawn into the scene and the 
doctor coming out of the dispensary ) . . . . . . . . 


1 . 82 


11 . 27 


0 . 91 


4 . 87 


24 . 38 


44 


N 


NNN 


( 1 ) 


(2 ) 


(3) 


(5 ) 


_ 


Metres 
15 . Reel 10 .- From the following dialogue of Thakur addressed to Raka , 

delete the underlined words : 

*Main us nagin ka zahar ek hi raat main uthar doonga . . . . 1 . 82 
16 . Reel 10. - Delete the following dialogue of Raka addressed to Champa : 

“ .. .. . .Zhonpadi ke pichhvade chalkar pyar karenge re .. .," . . 2: 43 
17 . Reel 10 . - Delete the following dialogue between Champa and Badshah : 

Clampa : “ Are voh dono aaj ke raat Zhonpadimain soyenge 
nil . . . . . . . . ... ? " 
Badshah : “ Haan " . 

Champa : " To tum vahan kaise soyege. . .. . . .. " .. . . 4 .87 
18 . Reel 10 .- - Delete the following dialogue between Ratan and Phulva : 

Phulva : " Suhaag raat . . . . . . . . " 
Ratan : " Shaadi ke pahele hi ?" 
Phulva : " Shaadi to naag panchami ko hogi. Pure teen 

mahine baaki hai" 
Ratan : " To rasam adayi pahele hi ?" 

Ratail : “ Aag lage to bula lena " 
19 . Reel 10 . - Delete the shots in which Champa s emphasised bysts and bare 

thighs are prominently visible while she is lying on the cot and 
Chandu is seen near her . . 

3 .65 
20 . Reel 11 . - - Fron the flashback , delete the shots in which there is a sugges 
tion of a kiss between Ratan and Phulva a 

1 . 82 
(Replaced with approved shot. -- 1 . 82 m .) 
21. Reel 11 . - - Delete the following dialogue of Thakur addressed to Chandu 

with respect to Phulya : 
. . . . .Maalmera hai . . . . . . . ." . . . . . . 

1 . 82 
22 . Reel 12 .- Delete entirely the scene (both picturisation and dialogues ) 

in which the family planning doctor examines Chandu 
( disguised as a woman ) for pregnancy . ( There is no objection 
to the retention of the scene upto the point when Chandu 
enters the clinic and when Champa escapes) . . . . . . 

6 .09 
23 . Reel 13 . - - Reduce to the minimum the scene of molestation of Kiran bv 

Chandu mainly deleting the shots in which (i) Chandu holr s 
her blouse and (ii) the view of Kiran with legs raised . 

5 . 48 
( Length retained . — 7 . 62 m ) 
24 . Recl 13 . - - Reduce to the minimum the scene in which the Thakur rapes 

Ramia mainly deleting the shots in which (i ) he is shown lying 
over the girl (ii ) and the views of Ramia in a raped condition 

( Length retained. - 7 .62 m ) 
25 . Reel 15. - - Delete from the flashback the shots in which Ratan and Phulva 
are shown rolling , cuddling and trying to kiss each other 

6 .09 
Length of deletions and reductions.- -218 .44 m . 
Length of approved replacements - 104 .73 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be .-- 3818 .21 m , 


6 .09 


MADRAS 


U 


M /5761 


65034 


Facts about Tyres " 
( English ) (Colour ) 
(16 mm ) ( U .S . A .). 


182 . 88 ( 1 ) Madras Rubber Fac - Du Pont Co . , U . S . A . 

tory , Madras. 


15 -12 -69 


U 


M /5766 


112 -48( 1) Basant 

Bombay . 


Trailer of Bhale Good - 
hachari ( Telugu ) 
(35 mm ) (B . & W . ) 
( India ). 


Pictures , Basant 

Bombay . 


Pictures , 


65035 


16 - 12 - 69 


Bhale Goodhachari 3991 - 46 ( 14 ) 

Do . 

Do . 

65036 With triangle mark . 
( Telugu ) (35 mm ) 
B . & W .) ( India ). 

16 - 12 - 69 
Endorsement on Cert . No. 65036 -U , dt. 16 - 1-69 issued to the film Bhale Goodhachari (Telugu ) . 
Length as in the application .- - 3991 •46 Mts. 
Cuts --- 

Mts . 
1 . Reel 2 .-- - Delete the code word Haryana wherever it occurs, ( It 

occurs twice in Reel 2 and twice in Reel 3 ) 
(Sound only _ replaced with the word Charana ) . 


FART III - SEC , 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1809 


NE 


M 


- - - -- 


- -- 


(1) 


/ 


22 -85 


(2) 

(3) 

(4 ) 
2 . Reel 3. --- Delete the shots showing officials looking like Chinese being 

shot at when they get out of the helicopter . 

(Replacement with officials looking like Indians approved — -22 -85) 
3 . Reel 12.- Delete the reference to the laboratory in Dehra Dun of 

Prof . Sharmaji . 
( Sound only _ replacement w 

Preplacementwith the word Eka Prasidha’ approved ) 
Tota ) cuts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


. . 


cha approved ) 


22 . 85 


Approved replacement 22 - 85 Metres in Reel 3. 
The actual length of the film , therefore remains the same, namely 3991 . 46 Mts , in 14 Reels , after cuts and approved 

replacement . 


U 


M / 5809 


to 5812 


M /5813 


Do . 


Do . 


M / 5805 


Uneasy Lies the 30 .48 ( 1 ) Kumari Films, P , Kumari Films, P . 65037. 
Head (Colour) 

Ltd ., Madras , 

Ltd . , Madras , 
( Tamil, Telugu , 

17 - 12 -69 
Kannada , & Hindi) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 

U 
The Bear with the 30 - 48 ( 1 ) 

65038 
Sore Head (Colour ) 
( Tamil , Telugu , 

17 - 12 -69 
Kannada and Hindi) 
( 35 mm . ) ( India ). 

U 
Akkaa Chellelu 4256 .26 ( 16 ) Jagapathi Films, Vija . Jagapathi Films, Vija - 65039 With triangle mark . 
( Telugu ) (35 mm ) 

yawada , 

yawada . 
(B . & W .) (India ). 

18 - 12 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 65039 - U , dated 18 - 12 - 69 _ issued to the film Akkaa Chellelu ( Telugu ) (35 mm ) 

( B . & W .) . 
Length as in the application . . - 4264 .45 Mts . 
Cuts 

Metres 
1 . Reel 2 . — Song 1 - Delete the words Dora Vayasu Cheers Lonchi Thongi 
Thongi Chuchindi , wherever it occurs . . . 

3 .64 
2 . Reel 10 . - Delete the shot where Raju is lying on the easy -chair and 
Asha is pressing her busts . . . . 

0 . 45 
3. Reel 15. - Delete the dialogue of Raju saying that he will pay money 
as bribe for his release on bale . 

. . . 2 .28 
Also delete the repetition of this idea in the court scene . 
(cross examination by Vijaya ) 

1 .82 


Total cuts 


8 . 19 


M / 5824 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be . - 4256 - 26 Mts , in 16 Reels. 

U 
Operation Jackpot 4466 -46 ( 16 ) Anupam Movies, Anupam Movies , 

65040 With triangle mark , 
Nalli CID 9993 

Madras. 

Madras . 
( Kannada ) ( 35 mm ) 

19- 12 -69 
( B . & W .) ( India ). 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 65040 - U , dated 19 - 12-69 issued to the film Operation Jackpot Nalli CID 999 

(Kannada ). 
Length as in the application — 4487 -86 Mts . 
Cuts -- 

Metres 
1. Reel 2 .- - Delete the shot of the dancer appearing in a provocative pose 

in the beginning of her feats , scantily clad . . . . . . . . 10 .05 
2 . Reel 7 .- Delete the shot of the person being burnt after petrol is sprinkled 
on him in the hospital . . . . . . 

2 . 43 
3. Reel 8 .-- Delete the dialogue which refers to this incident in the hospital 

(the words "Settu Sathuhoda ) ( Sound only) . . 
4 . Reel 10 . - - Delete the shot of the nude figure of a woman showing her 

breasts on the well . Delete also the shots where the dancer 
shakes her breasts and hips, in a circular motion of the bottom 
and putting her hands and legs on the floor , shaking her bottom 
sideways violently . . . . 

7 .91 
(Replacement. – 3 .95) . . 
5 . Reel 15 , - - Delete the shots of the dancer shaking her bottom , the 

front and back -movements with a violent shake on the 
revolving stage , and shaking the bust and hips sideways on 
the words "ba , ba etc . . . 

4 : 56 
(Replacement approved . 4 : 56 ). . . 


hominem 


1810 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


(Part III — SEC - 4 


USA 


(2) 


(3 ) 


(5 ) 


(6 ) 


6 . Reel 16 .- - Delete the second shot where Prof . Sekhar is gassed and 
tortured 

4 . 86 
Total cuts .. . . . . . . . . .. 29 .81 
Actual length of the film after cuts and replacements will be - 4466 . 56 Mts. in 16 Reels . 
Kumarasambhavam 4204 . 41( 16 ) Neela Productions, Neela , Productions, 65041 
(Malayalam ) ( 35 mm ) 

Trivandrum . 

Trivandrum . 
( Eastmancolour ) 

20 - 12 -69 


U 


M /5822 


U 


M /5808 


Kanneeru (Kannada ) 3765 . 24 ( 14 ) Sri Madhureswari Shri B . M . Shankar, 65042 With triangle mark . 
(35 mm ) ( B . & W .) 

Films, Bangalore . Bangalore, 
( India ). 

20 - 12-69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 65042 -U , dated 20 -12-69 –- issued to the film Kanneeru ’ (Kannada). 

( 35 mm . ). 
Length as in the application . - -3779 . 52 Mts. 
Cuts 

Metres 
1. Reel 4 .- Delete the shots where the Manager hugs the girl and Sujatha is 
lying down with her breasts heaving up and down . . 

3 .04 
2 . Reel 5 . - Delete the dialogue of Dhanalakshmi to her husband the 

Zamindar , where she refers to his mouth as “Baaya 

Borbaaya . . . . . . * 
3 . Ree! 9. - Delete the shot showing Dr. Sampath taking Bhagya s signature 
on a piece of paper to effect divorce 

5 . 16 
4 . Reel 13 . - Delete the shot of the Police Inspector removing his cap and 
paying obeisance to the dead villain ( Jayanna ) . . . . .. 1 :52 
Total cuts 

. . . . . . 14 . 28 
Actual length of the film after cuts is. — 3765 . 24 Mts . in 24 Reels. 
Particulars of films certified or refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 

27th December, 1969 . 

BOMBAY 


4 . 56 


B /58606 


60042 


Gujarat Ni Vana - 
sampati" (Gujarati) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


301 -74 (1) Director of Informa- Director of Informa- 

tion , Government of tion , Government of 
Gujarat, Sachivalaya , Gujarat, Ahemeda - 
Ahemadabad - 15 . 

bad - 15 . 


22 -12 -69 


B / 58614 


“ Tandrusti 
Tazagi" 
(Hindi) 
( India ). 


Aur 
(Colour ) 
(35 mm ) 


15 . 24 (1 ) Film M edia , 47, Jyoti G . Thakur, 60043 

Laxmi Insurance Film , Media , Bom - - - 
Bldg . Sir P . M . Rd ., bay - i 

22 - 12 -69 
Bombay - 1 . 

U 
30 . 48 (1 ) Aiyars Advertising Jyoti G . Thakur , 60044 

and Marketing Ltd . , Film Media , 47 , 
Nirmal, 7th floor, Laxmi Insurance 22 - 12 -69 
Bombay - 1. 

Bldg. Sir P . M . Rd., 
Bombay- 1 . 


B /58615 


“ State Bank for 
Service " , ( Colour ) 
(English ) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ). 


B / 58635 


“ Do Se Ek Bhali” 
(Hindi) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


30 .48 (1 ) Radio Advertising Radio Advertising 60045 

Service , Cecil Services, Bombay -1 . - 
Court, Landsdown 

22 - 12 -69 
Road , Appolo Bun 
der , Bombay - 11 . 

U 
30 .48 ( 1 ) 

Do . 

60046 
22 - 12 -69 


B / 58637 


DO . 


" Theluppu 
(Telugu ) 
(India ) . 


Potti" 
(35 mm ) 


Do. 


B /58636 


30 .48 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do , 


Do. 


60047 


“ Venmaikku Oru 

Potti" ( Tamil) 
( 35 mm ) (India ). 


22 - 12 -69 


U 


B /58577 


151 79 ( 1 ) 


Foster , 


60048 


“ Science Report 
96 - B " (English ) 
( 16 mm ) (U . S. A .). 


Robert 
( U . S . A . ) . 


U . S . Information 
Service , Fazal 
Bhoy House , Marine 
Lines, Bombay . 


22- 12 -69 


U 
60049 


B /58545 


Czechoslovak Films, 
(Czechoslovakia ) . 


“ Elektronky (Elec 
tronics ) * * (Czech ) 
(16 mm ) (Czechos 
lovakia ). 


22 -12 -69 


186 .00 (1) National Education 

and Information 
Films Ltd ., Na 
tional 

House , 
Tulloch 

Road , 
Bombay . 


PART III - SEC. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1811 


MMM 
V 


UNNE 


(2 ) 


(3) 


(6 ) 


U 
60050 


B / 58439 


B .B . C . (U .K .) 


“ Nehru : 
Two 
(English ) 
(U . K .). 


Man of 
Worlds" 
(16 mm ) 


511 34 (5 ) National Education & 

Information Films 
Ltd . National House , 
Tulloch Rd., Bombay . 


22 - 12 -69 


B /58524 


U 
60051 


“ Premier On Parade " 
(Colour ) ( English ) 
( 35 mm ) (India ). 


561 ·73(2) Premier Tyres Ltd . National Education 

Merchants Cham - and Information 
bers, New Marine Films Lid ., Bombay . 
Lines , Churchgate , 
Bombay. 


22 - 12 -69 


B /58420 


60052 


“ Pyasi Sham ” (Colour) 
(Hindi) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ). 


4829 -56 (18 ) Kewal Kumar , Ke- Kewal Kumar, Ke- 

waljit Productions , waljit Production , 
5 , 2nd floor , Air Bombay - 34 . 
Conditioned Mkt. 
Tardeo , Bombay -34 . 


23- 12 -69 


B /58514 


60053 


“ Mr. Johnson Had 
The 

Course " 
(English ) (16 mm ) 
( U .S . A . ) . 


304 . 80 ( 1) Theodore Bowling Insight (U .S . A .). 

S . J . De Nobili 
College , Poona - 14 . 


23- 12-69 


B /58506 


304 . 80 (1 ) 


Do , 


60054 


“ Trial By 
(English ) 
(U .S .A .). 


Fire " 
(16 mm ) 


23 - 12 -69 


B /58509 


304 . 80 ( 1) 


“ Boss Toad (No. 

(English ) 
(16 mm ) (U .S .A .). 


Insight, ( Jade Shah ) 
(U . S . A . ). 


60055 


148 ) " 


23 - 12 -69 

U 
60056 


B /58508 


304 . 80 ( 1 ) 


Insight ( James Loren ) 
(U . S . A .) . 


“ Why Sparrows 
Fall No . 170 " 
(English ) (16 mm ) 
( U . S. A .). 


23 - 12 -69 


B /58503 


304 .80 (1 ) 


Insight (U .S . A .) 


60057 


“ Perennial. - Problem 
(No. 121) ” (Eng 
lish ) ( 16 mm ) 
(U . S .A .) . - " 


23- 12 -69 


U 


B /58504 


304 .80 ( 1) 


60058 


“ Snow In Summer 
(No. 178 )" (Eng. 
lish ) ( 16mm ) (U .S.A .). 
“ The Truth About 

Time No . 175 " 
(English ) (16 mm ) 
(U . S . A .). 


23 - 12 - 69 

U 
60059 


B /58505 


304- 50 ( 
1) 


304 .80 (1) 


23- 12 -69 


B /58502 


304 . 80 ( 1 ) 


U 
60060 


“ Look Back To 
The Girden No . 
197 " ( English ) 
( 16 mm ) (U . S . A .). 


304-50(1) 


23 - 12 -69 


B /58507 


304 . 80 (1) 


60061 


“ The Oleander 

Years (No. 171 ) " 
( English ) (16 mm ) 
(U . S . A . ). 


23 - 12 -69 


B /58544 


594 - 36 (2 ) 


C . B . S . News, (U .S . A . )." · 60062 


“ The Cities : To 
Build The Future " 
(Colour ) (English ) 
(16 mm ) (U . S . A . ) . 


U . S . Information 
Servicc , 4 , New 
Marine Line , Bom 
bay - 20 . 


24 - 12 -69 


B / 58541 


(Co 
( 16 


561 .75 ( 2 ) 


Do . 


U 
60063 


“ Cosmopolis " 

lour) ( English ) 
mm ) (U . S .A .) . 


John H . Secondari 

and Helen Jean 
Rogers , ( U . S . A , ) . 


24 - 12 -69 


B /58631 - 33 


30 (1 ) 


“ Babies Around 
The World Love 

(Colour) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


Widescreen , 4 , Shirin , Widescreen , Bombay - 5 
Colaba Post Office , 
Bombay - 5 . 


60064 Valid for Ban 

--- gali, English , 
24 - 12 -69 and Hindi ver 

sions. 


B / 57819 


60065 With triangle mark . 


Trailer nf “ Marlowe” 
(Colour ) (Wide 
screen ) (English ) 
(35 mm ) ( U . S . A . ). 


38 -53 ( 1) Metro -Goldwyn Mayer Metro -Goldwyn -Mayer, 

India Ltd . Metro ( U . S . A .) . 
House , M . G . Road , 
Bombay. 


24 - 12 - 69 


299G1/70 - 16 


1812 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) [PART 3 - - SEC . 4 


V 


MWM 


EL 


NOM 


ma 


WYM 


U 


Vn 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


(6 ) 


(7) 


LE 


Endorsement.-- - 

Original length : 47 .85 m . 
Delete all the shots of dancer in semi-nudity in Cabaret.- 9 . 32 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be . - 38 .53 m . 


U 
60066 


B / 58679 


250 . 34 (1) 


Valid for 14 versions , 


" ladian News Re 
view No . 1107 " 
( A ) Special (35 mm ) 
( India ). 


Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 
of India , 24 , Pedder of India , Bombay - 26 . 
Rd., Bombay - 26 . 


24 - 12 -69 


B /58618 


U 
60057 


212 . 75 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


Valid for 14 versions. 


* Indian News Re 

view No . 1107" 
( 35 mni) (India ). 


24 - 12 -69 

U 
60068 


B /51716 


" The Ballari 

Ballar of 
Alma Gerlayne" 
( English ) ( 16 mm ) 
(U . S . A .) . 


304 •80 (1) Theodore Bowling Insight, (U .S .A .) 

S . J. De Nobill 
College , Poona - 14 . 


27 - 12-69 


B /58651 -52 " Mankind His Fi 

mily (Nanak Sa 
bak :1 Sanja )” (35 mm ) 
( India ). 


U 
60069 

-- - 
27 - 12 -69 


Valid for Hindi 
and Punjabi, ver 
sions, 


181 00 ( 1 ) Nazar Ahmed and Bismil Ludhiyanvi, 

Chitra Veni, 212 , Bundra , Bombay- 50 . 
Plot 2nd floor , 
B . J. Road , Band 
stand , Bandra , Bom 
bay - 50 . 


B /56706 


“ Inadmissible Evi- 2905 -43 ( 10 ) Paramount Films Ronald Kinnoch , 2641 With triangle mark . 
dence " ( English ) 

of India Ltd . , (U . K .). 
(35 mm ) (U .K .) . Hague Bldg. Sprott 

24 - 12 -69 
Road , Bombay -1 . 
Endorsement. - - 

Original length .- -2923 .03 m . 
Reel I : Delete shots of the strip - teaser in which she is shown in 

the nude , all the shots where she is bare- back and dancing and also 
nude shots - - - - - - - - 

9 . 90m . 
Reel v : Reduce shots of love -making between Maitland and Joy 
when the former is shown to be reclining over her 

7 , 70m . 
(Length retained. — 8 •00m .) 
Length of deletions.- - 17 .60 m . 
Actual length of the film after the uforesaid delctions will be. - 2905 -43 m . 


A 


B / 58351 


hranola mark . 
“ Before Winter 2891 . 94 ( 6 ) Columbia Films of Robert Emmett Ginna , 2642 With triang 
Comes " (Colour) 

India Ltd . Metro ( U . S . A . ) . 
(English ) (35 mm ) House , M . G . Road , 

24 - 12 -69 
(U . S .A . ) . 

Bombay . 
Endorsement.-- 

Original length . ---2894 . 07 m . 
Reel III : Delete the shots of Maria lying in bed with Janovic in which 
her bare bosoms are seen . . . . 

2 . 13m . 
Actuallength of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be. - 2891 .94m . 

ENDORSEMENTS 

VERSIONS 
B /58623 . 
Film . — “ Naya Nishan ” (Hindi and Punjabi) 
U -55277, dt. 29 - 10 -68 . 
This certificate is valid also for Marathi version of the film . The length of the film remains unaltered , 
The certificate was endorsed on 24th December , 1969 . 
B /58634 , 
Film .-- " Mummy s First Choice " (English , Hindi, Tamil, and Malayalam ) 
U - 59601 , dt . 27 - 11- 69 . 
This certificate is valid also for Telugu version of the film . The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The certificate was endorsed on 24th December , 1969 , 
B 58624 . 
Film .-- " New Symbol ” (Hindi, Tamil, and Malayalam ) 
U - 55749, dt. 29- 11-68 . 
This Certificate is valid also for Kannada version of the film . The length of the film remains unaltered . 
The Certificate was endorsed on 24th December 1969. 


TA 


PART III — Sec . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


1813 


MALAWAN 


LY 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


CO 


(3) 


CALCUTTA 


C /6487 


Paschim Barga Sar 
karer Savigbad 
Chitra (5 ) DC 69 
( Bengali ) ( 35 mm ) 
India ). 


304 . 80 ( 1 ) Barindranath Saha , Barindranath Saha , 58513 

18 / B , Bipradas Street, 18 / B , Bipradas Street, — 
Calcutta - 9 . Calcutta - 9 . 

25 - 12 -69 


C /6483 


Calgas 
( Bengali ) 
( India ). 


(Colour ) 
(35 min ) 


C /6480 


Goop Choop (Hindi) 

( 35 mm ) ( India ) . 


30 . 48 (1 ) Image Films, 38, Image Films, 38 , 58514 

Ballygunge Place, Ballygunge Place , - - 
Calcutta -19 . Calcutta - 19 . 

25 - 12 - 69 

U 
609 . 60 (2 ) Chitrabawha , 307, Shri Amitabha Raay , 58515 
Jodhpur Park 

C / o Chitrabawha , - 
cutta - 31, 

307 Jodhpur Park , 27 - 12 - 69 

Calcutta - 31, 
MADRAS 


M / 5827 


Bandipotu Bhec- 3842 - 30 (13) Bhaskar Pictures , Shri D . Brahmay - 65043 With triangle mark . 
panna ( Telugu ) 

13 , Boag Road , yah , Bhaskar Pic - wenn 
( 35 min ) ( B . & W . ) 

Madras - 17. 

tures, 13 , Boag Rd ., 23 - 12 -69 
(India ). 

Madras- 17 . 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 65043 -U , dated 23- 12 -1969 issued in the film Bandipotu Bheemanna 
( Telugu ) . ( B . & W .). 

Length as in the application .-- 3842 •30 Metres. 
Cuts : 

Metres 
1 . Reel 2 .- Delete (a ) the shot of the dancer lifting her leg and turning it at a 
man ( Replacement approved . 0 . 60 ) . 

. * 

0 . 60 
(b ) the prominent view of her brcasts shake ( first time) 
(Replacement approved ) . . . . . .. 

0 . 60 
2 . Reel 3. - - (a ) Delete the shot of Mohan lying with his head resting on 
the buttock of Leela . . 

0 . 91 
( Replacement approved .1 . 82 ) 
(b ) Delete the shot of his head resting on her busts 
(Replacement approved ) 

1 . 82 
3 . Reel 5 .- -Delete Leela s dialogue “ Chattam Chattame, Katnam 
Katname” w . - - - - Carne 

este 
(Replacement sound approved ) 
4 . Reel 6 . - Delete Honeymoon Rao s sentence “ Mana desamlo kooleeki 

visham tage vallu boledu mandi vannaru 

( Sound only replaced ) . 
5 . Rcel 9 . - Song 4 - ( a ) In the water scene , delete the shot of Mohan catching 

Leela s leg and moving his head from the leg upwards - ... 2 . 43 
( b ) Delete the shot of his head at her busts just before the line 
" Nimma Pandu Lanti .r. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

3 . 64 
( Replacement for ( a ) and (b ) approved ). 
(c ) Delete the shot of his leaning over her on the line " do 
boochu landindi ” 

1 . 52 
(Replacement approved ). 
6 . Reel 9 - - Delete Honeymoon Rao s dialogue “ Mee pani ayinda , Okata 

Renda" (Have you finished your work ? One or two ?) . . 

(Sound only - replaced ). 
Total replacement approved 11 . 52Metres. 

Total cuts - - - - - 11 : 52 


1 


The 


actual length of the film after cuts , remains the same, namely 3842 Metres in 13 Reels . 


M /5825 


M /5797 


Government of Ta 300 . 00 ( 1 ) Principal, Institute , Privicipal, Institute 65044 
milnadu Regional 

of Film , Technology , of Film Technology, 
Newsreel Bulletin 

Madras. Médras. 

27 -12-69 
19 ( Tamil) ( 35 mm ) 
( B . & W .) ( India ). 

A 
“Gejje Puojc (Kal 4228 .20015) Chitra Jyothi, Gan - Chithra Jyothi, Gan - 238 With triangle mark . 
nada) (35 mm ) 

dhinagar , Banga . dhinagar, Banga - -- 
( B . & W .) (India ). 

lore - 9 , 

lore - 9 . 

27 - 12 -69 
Endorsement on Certificate No. 238- A dated 27th December , 1969 - issued to the film Gejje Pooje 

(Kannada ). 
Length as in the application . _ 4258 .05 Metres. 


1814 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892 ) 


(PART III - SEC . 4 


w 


er 


(2 ) 


( 3 ) 


(5) 


(6 


(7 ) 


Metres 


5 . 47 


Ukya . . . falta 


. 


. 


1 . 53 


Cuts 
1 . Reel 2 .- Delete the shots where the rich man hands over the money 

and shows a signal with his eyes . . . 
2 . Reel 2.- - Delete the dialogue of the grandmother saying “ Namage 

Preethiyala Mukya . . . . Hana " 
3 . Reel 11 . - - Delete the dialogue of Balakrishna referring to the Yugas when 

he compares himself to Lord Krishna . . 
4 . Reel 11.- Delete the dialogue between the collcge boys “ You are one 

amongst the many passengers travelling in the bus“ 
5 . Reel 15 . - Delete the shot where after the dance before God in the temple , 

the man is putting money into the plate . . . 
. Reel 15 . - Reduce the duration of the shots where the girl is taken in 

a procession with Nagaswaram and the neighbours are looking 
at her ... 


2 . 13 


3 . 34 


15 . 54 


3 . 04 


O 


Total cuts 

31 . 05 
Add Reel I.- Insert of a tablet in the beginning of the film to the effect that the persons charactere . 

portrayed in the film are not real persons, but purely imaginary . Addition approved 1 . 20 

Metres . 
Actual length of the film after cuts and approved addition in Reel 1, will be - 4228 . 20 Meties in 15 Reels . 


M . V . DESAI 

Chairman , 
Central Board of Film 


Censors.. 


PRINTED BY THE MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , FARIDABAD 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1970 


