BBGtSTHRga Wo. Dl ZZt . 


< 2Hxc (Easette 



of inbia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 5] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1956 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 28th January, 
1956 ■ — 


Issue 

No. 


XI 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Sub)ect 


S.R.O. 172, dated the 23rd 
January, 1956. 


Ministry of Commer- 
ce and Industry. 


The Central Government 
directs that the powers 
exercisable by it in re- 
lation to the control of 
supply, distribution and 
price of cement in the 
State of Andhra, shall also 
be exercisable by the State 
Government of Andhra 
subject to certain condi- 
tions. 


12 


S.R.O. 214, dated the 24th 
January, 1956. 


Ministry of External 
Affairs. 


The Land Improvement 
Loans and Agriculturists’ 
Loans (Application to the 
State of Pondicherry) Order, 

1956. 


S.R.O. 2ij, dated the 24th 
January, 1956. 


Ditto. 


The Essential Commodities 
(Application to the State 
of Pondicherry) Order, 
1956 . 


13 


S.R.O. 216, dated the 27th 
January, 1956. 


Ministry of Informa- 
tion and Broad- 
casting, 


The Central Government 
certifies a film to be of the 
description specified there 
in. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Manager of Publications, Civil Line*, Delhi. Indents should be submitted so a* to reach 
the Manager within ten day* of the date of issue of these Gazettes. 


( 105 ) 




106 the GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4. 1856 [Part H— Sec. S 


PART II— Section 3 

Statutory Rules and Orders Issued by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Chief Commissioners). 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 24 th January 1956 

S.R.O. 223. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of section 29 of 
the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 (Act V of 1908), the Central Government hereby 
declares that the provisions of the said section shall apply to all Civil Courts in 
the Federation of Malaya. 

[No. F. 27-I/55-L.J 
H. R. KRISHNAN, Jt. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-2, the 24th January 1956 

S.R.O. 224. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 23 and 24 of the 
High Court Judges (Conditions of Service) Act, 1954 (28 of 1954), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following rules, namely: — 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the High Court Judges (Part A 
States) Rules, 1956. 

2. Conditions of service in certain cases. — The conditions of service of a Judge 
of a High Court for which no express provision has been made in the High Court 
Judges (Conditions of Service) Act, 1954, shall be, and shall from the commence- 
ment of the Constitution be deemed to have been, determined by the rules for the- 
time being applicable to a member of the Indian Administrative Service holding, 
the rank of Secretary to the Government of the State in which the principal seal 
of the High Court in situated: 

Provided that, in respect of facilities for medical treatment and accommodation 
in hospitals, the provisions of the All India Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 
1954, in their application to a Judge, shall be deemed to have taken effect from the 
26th January 1950. 

Note. — Cases of reimbursement of medical charges decided before the com- 
mencement of these rules shall not be reopened unless it is specifically 
so desired by the Judge concerned. 

3. Passage benefits.-— (i) A Judge who is a member of the Indian Civil Service 
and whose domicile at the date of his appointment to that Service was elsewhere 
than in India, shall have the same rights in respect of passages for himself, his- 
wife and children, if any, as, under the rules of that service, he would have had 
if he had not been appointed a Judge, his service as Judge being treated as 
service for the purpose of determining those rights. 

(ii) Any other Judge whose domicile at the date of his appointment as Judge 
was elsewhere than in Asia shall have the same rights in respect of passages for 
himself, his wife and children, if any, as, under the rules for the time being appli- 
cable to persons who became members of the Indian Civil Service on that date, he 
would have had, if he had become a member thereof on that date, and if his 
service as Judge were treated as service therein for the purpose of determining 
those rights: 

Provided that, in the case of a Judge who was, before appointment to a High 
Court in India, a Judge of a former Indian High Court, the date of his appoint- 
ment and his service as such Judge shall be treated as the date of appointment and 
his service as Judge respectively for the purpose of this sub-rule, and any passages 
taken by him as such Judge shall be treated as passages taken under these rules. 

Note. — T he passage benefits provided in rule 3 shall be, and shall from the 
commencement of the Constitution be deemed to have been, admissible 
only to such Judges as were serving in the High Court on the 1st day 
of May, 1955. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1956 


107 


4. Decision of questions.— If any question arises about the interpretation of the 
provisions of these rules, the decision of the Central Government thereon shall be 
final, 

[No. 11/39/54-Judl.] 
M. GOPAL MENON, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Company Law Administration) 

New Delhi, the 27 th January 1956 

S.R.O. 225. — The services of Shri P. C. Das Gupta, Chief Administrator, 
Rehabilitation Finance Administration, are formally replaced at the disposal 
of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India with effect from the 3rd 
August, 1955. 

[No. F.7 (40) -FIII/55(Corp) .] 
S. S. SHARMA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION) 

Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 24th January 1956 

S.R.O. 226.— The Indian Science Congress Association, Calcutta, having been 
approved by the prescribed authority for the purpose of clause (xiii) of sub- 
section (2) of section 10 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), the 
Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the list 
appended to the notification of the Government of India in the late Finance 
Department (Revenue Division) No. 34-Income-tax, dated the 23rd November, 
1946, namely: — 

In the said list, under the heading “Institutions”, after item No. 30, the 
following [item shall be Inserted, namely: — 

“31. Indian Science Congress Association, Calcutta.” 

[No. 5.] 

P. N. DAS GUPTA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDERS 

Stamps 

New Delhi, the 25 th January 1950 

S.R.O. 227. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (II of 1899), the Central Government 
hereby remits the duty with which the lease deed, dated the 13th December, 
1955, executed by the High Commission for the United Kingdom in India in respect 
of the ground floor flat, at 204, Golf Links Area, New Delhi, is chargeable under 
the said Act. 

[NO. 0.] 


New Delhi , the 28 th January 1956 

S.R.O. 228. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (II of 1899), the Central Government 
hereby remits to the extent of 75% of duties chargeable under Schedule I to the 
said Act, on instruments by which properties In any Part C State in India are 
transferred by foreign Missions (Missionaries) to Indian Missions (Missionaries). 

[No, 6.] 

M. R. RAMACHANDRAN, Under Secy. 



fO& tHE GA ZE TTE OF INDIA, FEBSWaRY 4, 1936 [Part II— Sec. 3 

CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 1st February 1966 

S.R.O. 229 [56/12/55-IT]. — In pursuance of sub-section (4) of Section 5 of the 
Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), the Central Board of Revenue directs 
that with effect from the 6th February 1966 the following further amendments 
shall be made to its Notification No. 32-Income-tax, dated the 9th November, 
1946, namely: — 

In the schedule appended to the said Notification under the sub-heads 
I — Madras”, “IX — Hyderabad” and “X — Mysore, Travancore-Cochin” respectively, 
for the existing Ranges and Income-tax Circles, the following Ranges and Income- 
fax Circles shall be substituted, namely: — 

“I— Madras” 

Madras "A" Range 

1. Madras Salaries Circle. 

2. Estate Duty-curo-Income-tax Circle, Madras. 

3. Special Survey Circle No. 1, Madras (in respect of persons who have 

their principal place of business in or reside in the Districts of Madras, 
Chingleput and Salem). 

4. Salem Circle. 

5. Kancheepuram Circle. 

Madras “B” Range 

1. Madras City Circle I. 

2. Madras City Circle III. 

3. Special Circle, Madras. 

4. Madras (Special) Circle. 

5. Madras Special (East) Circle. 

6. Madras Special (North) Circle. 

7. Madras Special (South) Circle. 

8. Madras Special (Central) Circle. 

9. Vellore Circle. 

10. Erode Circle. 

11. Special Survey Circle No. 1, Madras (in respect of persons who have 

their principal place of business in or reside in the North Arcot 
District). 

Madras “C" Range 

1. Madras City Circle II, 

2. Madras City Circle IV. 

3. Madras City Circle V. 

4. Cuddalore Circle. 

0. Nagap&tinam Circle. 

6. Tanjore Circle. 

7. Central Circle I. 

8. Central Circle II. 

9. Special Survey Circle No. 1, Madras (in respect of persona who have 

their principal place of business in or reside in the Districts of South 
Arcot and Tanjore). 

Madhurai Range 

1. Madhurai Circle. 

2. Madhurai (Special) Circle. 

3. Special Survey Circle No. 2, Madhurai (in respect of persons who have 

their principal place of business in or reside in the Districts of 
Madhurai, Tirunelveli and Ramnad). 



Part II— £ec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1950 109 


4. Virudhunagar Circle. 

5. Tirunelveli Circle. 

6 . Tutlcorin Circle. 

Tiruchirapalli Range 

1 Tiruchirapalli Circle. 

2. Karaikudi Circle. 

3. Pudukottai Circle. 

4. Special Survey Circle No. 2, Madhurai (in respect of persons who have 

their principal place of business in or reside in the District of 
Tiruchirapalli) . 

Coimbatore Range 

1. Coimbatore Circle. 

2. Special Survey Circle No. 3, Coimbatore (in respect of persons who have 

their principal place of business in or reside in the District of 
Coimbatore and Nilgiris). 

3. Special Circle, Coimbatore. 

4. Excess Profits Tax Circle, Coimbatore. 

5. Excess Profits Tax Circle, Erode. 

6 . Dindigul Circle. 

7. Ootacamund Circle. 

Kozhikode Range 

1. Kozhikode Circle. 

2. Falghat Circle. 

3. Mangalore Circle. 

4. Special Survey Circle No. 3, Coibatore (in respect of persons who have 

their principal place of business in or reside in the Districts of Mnl w bar 
and South Kanara) . 

"IX — Hyderabad” 

Hyderabad ‘A’ Range 

1. A-Ward, Hyderabad. 

2. B-Ward, Hyderabad. 

3. E-Ward, Hyderabad. 

4. Salary Circle, Hyderabad. 

5. Aurangabad. 

6 . Latur. 

7. Gulbarga. 

8 . Special Survey Circle, Hyderabad, 

Hyderabad ' B ’ Range 

1. Special Circle, Hyderabad. 

2. C-Ward, Hyderabad. 

3. D-Ward, Hyderabad. 

4. Nanded. 

5. Nizamabad. 

Rajahmundry Range 

1. Vizianagaram 

2. Visakhapatnam. 

3. Kakinada. 

4. Rajahmundry. 

5. Eluru. 

6 . Masulipatnam. 



no 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1956 [Part II — Sec. 


Vijayawada Range 

1. Vijayawada Circle. 

2. Special Circle, Vijayawada. 

3. Special Survey Circle, Vijayawada. 

4. Tenall. 

5. Bapatla. 

6. Nellore. 

7. Chittoor. 

8. Guntur. 

9. Warangal. 

10. Khammameth. 

11. Cuddapah. 

Kurnool Range 

1. Kurnool. 

2. Salary Circle, Kurnool. 

3. Ananthapur. 

4. Adorn. 

5. Raichur. 

“X — Mysore, Travancore-Cochin” 
"A" Range, Bangalore 

1. Urban Circle, Bangalore. 

2. Mysore Circle. 

3. Hassan Circle. 

4. Davangere Circle. 

5. Koler Circle. 

6. Coorg Circle, Mercara. 

7. Special Investigation Branch, Bangalore. 

8. Estate Duty-cum-Income-tax Circle, Bangalore. 

“B" Range, Bangalore 

1. Rural Circle, Bangalore. 

2. Salary Circle, Bangalore. 

3. Special Survey Circle, Bangalore. 

4. Special Circle, Bangalore. 

6. Shimoga Circle. 

6. Tumkur Circle. 

7. Bellary Circle. 

“Trivandrum.’’ Range 

1. Trivandrum Circle. 

2. Nagercoil Circle. 

3. Quilon Circle. 

4. Kottayam Circle. 

5. Alleppey Circle. 

6. Special Circle, Trivandrum. 

7. Special Survey Circle, Mattancherry. 

8. Ernakulam Circle, Emakulam. 

9. Trichur Circle. 

10. Alwaye Circle. 

11. Salary Circle, Ernakulam. 

12. Mattancherry Circle. 

13. Estate Duty-cum-Income-tax Circle, Ernakulam. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1956 


III 


2. Where an Income-tax Circle stands transferred by this Notification from 
one Range to another Range, appeals arising out of assessments made in that 
Income-tax Circle and pending immediately before the date of this Notification 
before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that 
Income-tax Circle is transferred shall on and from the date of this Notification 
be transferred to and dealt with by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of the 
Range to whom the said Circle is 'transferred. 


[No. 7.] 

M. S. SIVRAMKRISHNA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

Tea Control 

New Delhi, the 24 th January 1966 


S.R.O. 230-231. — In pursuance of section 19 of the Tea Act, 1953 (29 of 1953), the 
Central Government hereby declares that the export allotment of tea for the 
financial year 1955-56 shall be 480 million pounds avoirdupois. 

[No. 36(3) Plant/65.] 


P. V. RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1956 


S.R.O. 232. — In pursuance of the provisions of Rule 13 (4) of the Indian Cotton 
Cess Rules, 1923, framed under Section 15 of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 
(No. XIV of 1923), the Central Government hereby publish the audited accounts 
of "Receipts and Expenditure” of the Indian Central Cotton Committee for the 
year ending 31st March, 1955, along with the auditor’s report. 


Part I — Audit Report 


The audit of the accounts of the Indian Central Cotton Committee, Bombay 
for the year 1964-55 was conducted between 12th August, 1955 to 6th October,’ 
1956. The following observations are made: — 


2. During the current year, out of the total amount of Rs. 66,756 standing in the 
credit of the "Lapsed and Forfeiture Account” of the Committee’s Provident 
Fund, a sum of Rs. 60,000 was distributed amongst the members of the Fund in 
proportion to the Committee’s contribution standing to their credit on 31st March 



M2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA FEBRUARY 4, 1936 [Part II— Sec. 3 


1956. Although the Committee’s action in permitting the above distribution is 
covered by Rule 13 of the Provident Fund Rules, Government may perhaps con- 
sider whether an extraneous receipt of this kind may not be treated as Committee’s 
receipt and more appropriately applied for the purpose of the Committee. If 
Government agrees with the view taken by audit, the deletion of Rule 18 of the 
Provident Fund Rules may be considered. 


3. In their meeting dated 22nd March, 1955, the Standing Finance Sub-Com- 
mittee delegated powers to the Director, Technological Laboratory, Matunga: to 
incur expenditure not exceeding Rs. 3,500 for individual items subject to budget 
provision. 


Under clause 16(a) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923, the Committee can 
delegate any powers exercisable under the Act by the Committee to the Standing 
Finance Sub-Committee. It is doubtful whether the Sub-Committee can in turn 
redelegate these powers to any of its subordinate officers. 


4. In Rule 10(2) of the Indian Cotton Cess Rules, 1923, it is laid down that the 
leave, pay and allowances to officers and servants of the Committee, who are not 
Government servants shall be regulated by the Committee. The Committee has 
neither framed its own rules nor adopted the Central Government Rules direct. 
But all establishment matters are dealt with under the relevant provisions in the 
Post and Telegraph compilation of Fundamental and Supplementary Rules. As 
the expression “so far as may be” in sub-rule 3 of the Rules referred to above 
does not make it obligatory on the Committee to follow Fundamental and Sup- 
plementary Rules, the Committee has many times deviated from the main rules 
and the audit has experienced considerable difficulties, particularly in the matters 
pertaining to fixation of pay etc. as no definite rules have been laid down with 
reference to which audit can be conducted. The Government may therefore give 
a final ruling in the matter by asking the Committee to either adopt the Govern- 
ment rules direct, or to frame their own rules. Instances of major deviations are 
given below for information of Government. 


(i) In spite of the fact that Committee can under Rule 9(4) of the Indian 
Cotton Cess Rules 1923, sanction posts, the maximum of which does 
not exceed Rs. 500 for a period not exceeding 5 years, the Sub- 
Committee has decided in a recent resolution dated 29th September, 
1955 (Annexure I) that rules applicable to permanent Central Gov- 
ernment servants should be made applicable to such staff with retros- 
pective effect from the inception or the Committee. As such posts 
are sanctioned for a limited period not exceeding five years and are 
also temporary, the incumbents of such posts cannot be treated on 
par with Permanent Central Government Servants. It is however 
seen that pay of most of the persons on promotion has been fixed by 
treating them as permanent servants even prior to the Sub-Com- 
mittee’s decision referred to above. All fixation of pay cases will 
therefore eventually depend on whether or not Government agrees 
with this view. 


(ii) Pay was fixed under Auditor General’s decision No. 3 below F.R. 22 in 
the case of Shree A. T. Raphel, Technical Assistant who held a 
temporary post in substantive capacity prior to his promotion although 
the decision requires that he should hold a permanent post substan- 
tively vide Item 2 of Audit Note. 


(iii) Half pay leave is allowed to count for increments in the case of purely 
officiating and temporary servants in contravention of Government 
of India decision No. 2 below F.R. 26. (Vide item 1 of Audit Note.) 


5, The Secretary, Indian Central Cotton Committee may be directed to pay 
provisionally an amount of Rs. 3,690 to the credit of the Government of India to 
the head “XLVI-Misc. Fees for Government Audit Central” as audit fee for the 
year and forward a chalan to this office in support of the credit. 

0. An audit note on minor irregularities has been handed over in original, to 
the Secretary, Indian Central Cotton Committee for necessary further action. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1050 IIj 


Annexure 1 

“The Sub-Committee noted that under the Indian Cotton Cess Rules, the 
Committee can create posts only for periods of five years at a time. The posts 
created by the Committee are, therefore, renewable from time to time. This did 
not, however, take away the more or less permanent nature of the posts which are 
continuing for an indefinite period. The Sub-Committee, therefore, decided that 
such of the employees of the Committee as were appointed to posts which wore 
renewable every five years might be governed by the rules applicable to perma- 
nent Central Government Servants with retrospective effect from the Inception 
of the Committee, subject to such deviations as the Committee might make from 
time to time.” 



Indian Central 
Statement of Receipts and Pt 


RECEIPTS 


Rs. Ra. 

Opening Balanoeason ist April, 

*954 44,24,065 8 8 

Swkirg Fund A/C. . 31,828 2 o 44,55,893 10 8 

Less -Adjustment of suspense 

receipts of 1953-54 • . 3,539 1 9 


Receipts under Section 12 of the 
Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923. 


Other Receipts : — 

Sale of Publications, sale of 
Cotton, miscellaneous Re- 
ceipts, fees for tests etc. . 38,116 2 9 


House rent recoveries from the 
Director, Technological Labo- 
ratory, Maturga . . . I)670 o 0 


House rent recoveries from the 
Secretary, Indian Central Cot- 
ton Committee . . . 1,864 I3 0 


Suspense Receipts 


1,416 9 o 
43*067 8 9 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1950 [Part II— Sec. 



Less : — Loss on sale of Securities. 13,171 i4 o 29>&95 10 6 

Interest on Investments . . 1,14,480 3 8 144,375 14 5 


Total 


*Cottor Cess 
Cotton Fund 


5742407 4 1 Total 


36,61,603 12 3 
2,34,594 9 5 


38,96,198 5 8 


__ 5742407 4 1 


/ 

II 


(Sd.) 

for Secretary, 

Indian Central Cotton Committee. 


(Sd.) 

Superintendent (Finarce Sc Audit), 
Indian Central Cotton Committee. 


Certified that the total expenditure incurred and receipts received by the Indian Central Cotton Committee, a body corporate established under the 
Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923, and the Provident Fund Accounts, maintained by the Secretary, Indian Central Cotton Committee, Bombay, for the 
year 1954-55 were checked and found to be in order snbject to remarks ir the Audit Report. 

(Sd.) Sub raman vam, 
Assistant Examiner, 
Outside Audit Department. 


cn 


Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1958 



Indian Ce 
Protrid&U Fund 


RECEIPTS 

Rs. Rs. 

Opening Balance as cn ist Aprils 

1954 9,77,944 * 5 

Subscribers’ Contribution . . 51,990 9 o 


Add : — 

Recoveries against advances . 34,699 15 o 86,690 8 o 

10,64,635 o 5 

Less ; —Refunds to subscribers who 

have resigned . . . 7,070 14 5 

Advances to subscribers . . 37,640 o O 44,710 14 5 

10,19,924 2 o 

Committee’s conti ibutions received 
from the Indian Central Cotton 
Committee .... 

Less : — Payments made to sub- 
scribers who have resigned inchiu- 
ing transfer to Lapse and For- 
feiture Ai'C for contribution 
disallowed .... 


Inters st received on investments . 13,10? 5 o 

Irter est received on advarce to 

Subscribers .... 825 10 

Income-Tax on Interest . , I8i 2 


51,990 9 o 


6,775 1 1 45,215 7 11 







®HE GAZ&ppE 'OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4 , 1956 [Part II— Sec. 



19 $ 13 * 


Less : — Interest paid during the 
year to subscribers who have 
resigned .... 

Bank’s Comnoissior, etc. for col- 
lection of interest . . 16 8 $ 

Interest paid at the time o f pur- 
chase of Securities . . 691 1 9 906 7 3 


Lapses and Forfeitures account : — 
Investment Fluctuation account 
(Appreciation in Market value 
of Securities) 

Suspense Account 

Total 


(Sd.j 

for Secretary, 

Indian Centra! Cotton Committee. 


Tost office 12 years* National Sav- 
ings Certificates . . . 6^7,500 o o 

Sayings Bank account with the 

state Babk of India, Bombay “ 344 11 3 

Current account with the State 
13,208 10 4 Bank of India, Bombay . . 75,290 15 7 

329 4 - 2 

455 11 7 
91 12 10 

10,79,225 o 10 Total 10,79,225 o 10 


(Sd.) 

Superintendent (Finance & Audit), 
Indian Central Cotton Committee. 

[NO. F.l-86/55-ConLlL] 

M. S. RANDHAWA, Add! Secy. 


Par* fl— Sec. J] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 



118 


the gazette OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 19S0 [Part II— Sec. 3 


New Delhi , the 23 rd January 1956 

S.R.O. 233. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (e) of section 4 
of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 (IX of 1946), the State Government 
of Madhya Bharat have re-nominated Shri N. Swami, I.A.S., Director of Indus- 
tries, Madhya Bharat, Indore, as a member of the Indian Central Oilseeds Com- 
mittee, with effect from the 1st April, 1956. 

[No. F.6-3/56-Com.I.] 

S.R.O. 234, — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (f) of section 4 of 
the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 (IX of 1946), the State Government of 
Madhya Bharat have renominated Shri Rana Mansingh of Susaner, Distt. Shajapur 
(Madhya Bharat), as a member of the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee, with 
effect from the 1st April, 1960. 

[No. F.6-4/56-Com.I.) 


New Delhi , the 27 th January 1966 

S.R.O. 235. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (e) of section 4 
of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1940 (IX of 1940), the State Govern- 
ment of Bihar have nominated Shri B. P. Akhaury, Director of Agriculture, 
Bihar, Patna, as a member of the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee, with 
effect from the 1st April, 1956. 

[No. F.6-3/56-Com.IJ 

S.R.O. 236. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (e) of section 4 of 
the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 (IX of 1946) , the State Government 
of Saurashtra have re-nominated Dr. B. S. Kadam, Director of Agriculture, 
Saurashtra, Rajkot, as a member of the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee, with 
effect from the 1st April, 1966. 

[No. F.6-3/50-Com.I.] 

S.R.O. 237. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (f) of section 4 
of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act. 1946 (IX of 1946), the Government of 
Saurashtra have nominated Shri Maldevji Odedra, Porbandar (Saurashtra), as 
a member of the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee, with effect from the 1st 
April, 1956. 

[No. F.6-4/56-Com.I.]' 
MOKAND LALL, Under Secy, 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 23rd January 1956 

S.R.O. 238. — In pursuance of clause (ia) of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the 
Drugs Act, 1940 (XXIII of 1940) , it is hereby notified for general information 
that the Drugs Controller (India) shall henceforth be an ex-offl cio member of the 
Drugs Technical Advisory Board. 

[No. F.1-43/65-D.J 


New Delhi, the 27th January 1966 

S.R.O. 239.— The following draft of a certain further amendment to the Drugs 
Rules, 1946, which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 33 of the Drugs Act, 1940 (XXIII of 1940), is 
published as required by the said section for the information of all persons likely 
to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken 
into consideration on or after the 10th May, 1966. 

2. Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government, 

Draft Amendment 

In the said Rules, for the proviso to clause (4) of rule 65, the following pro- 
viso shall be substituted, namely: — 

"Provided that this condition shall not apply: 

(a) to the supply of drugs specified in Schedule C or Schedule E or of 

preparations containing drugs specified in Schedule E, on the pres- 
cription of a registered medical practitioner, or 

(b) to the supply of drugs specified in Schedule C by way of wholesale 

dealing/’ 

[No. F.1-67/55-D.J 
P. N. ANAND, Under Secy. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1950 119 


New Delhi-2, the 24 th January 1956 

S.R.O. 240. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section & 
of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 (XIX of 1925), the Central Government hereby 
adds to the Schedule to the said act the name of the following public institution,, 
namely: — 


“The Central Institute of Research in Indigenous 
Jamnagar.” 


Systems of Medicine,. 
[No. F.8-23/54-MI.] 


S.R.O. 241. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of 
section 8 of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 (XIX of 192!>) the Central Govern- 
ment hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall apply to the 
provident fund established for the benefit of the employees of the Central 
Institute of Research in Indigenous Systems of Medicine, Jamnagar. 


CENTRAL INSTITUTE OF RESEARCH IN INDIGENOUS SYSTEMS OF 
MEDICINE, JAMNAGAR 

Contributory Provident Fund Rules 

1. Short title and definitions. — (1) These rules may be called the Jamnagar 
Research Institute (Contributory Provident Fund) Rules, 1950. 

(2) They shall be deemed to have come into force from the 1st April, 1964. 

2. In these rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or 
context — 

(1) ‘Director’ means the Director of Institute. 

(2) ‘Eidoluments’ means monthly substantive pay or leave salary. 

(3) ‘Employee’ means a wholetime salaried officer or servant of the Institute, 
other than a person in the service of the Government whose services have been 
lent or transferred to the Institute. 


(4) ‘Family’ means : — 

(a) in the case of a male subscriber, the wife and children of a subscriber, 

and the widow and children of a deceased son of the subscriber: 

Provided that if a subscriber proves that his wife hag been judicially 
separated from him or has ceased under the customary law of the 
community to which she belongs to be entitled to maintenance she 
shall henceforth be deemed to be no longer a member of the subs- 
criber’s family in matters to which these rules relate unless the 
subscriber subsequently indicates by express notification in writing 
to the Director that she shall continue to be so regarded; 

(b) in the case of a female subscriber, the husband and children of the 

subscriber and the widow and children of a deceased son of the 
subscriber: 

Provided that if a subscriber by notification in writing to the Director 
expresses her desire to exclude her husband from her family, the 
husband shall henceforth be deemed to be no longer a member of 
the subscriber’s family in matters to which these rules relate, unless 
the subscriber subsequently cancels formally in writing her noti- 
fication excluding him, 

Note I. — ‘Children’ means legitimate children. 

Note II. — An adopted child shall be considered to be a child when the 
Director or if any doubt arises in the mind of the Director, the Secretary to 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Law, or such officer as may be 
specified by him in this behalf, is satisfied that under the personal law of the 
subscriber, adoption is legally recognised as conferring the status of a natural 
child, but in this case only. 

(5) ‘Fund’ means the Provident Fund constituted and established by the 
Governing Body. 

(6) ‘Governing Body’ means the Governing Body of the Institute. 

(7) ‘Institute’ means the Central Institute of Research in Indigenous Systems 
of Medicine, Jamnagar. 

(8) ‘Leave’ means any variety of leave granted under Supplementary Rule 
285 or the Revised Leave Rules, 1933, with such modifications as the Governing 
Body may decide from time to time whichever may be applicable to the subscriber. 

(9) ‘Year’ means financial year, i.e., from 1st April to 31st March. 



i2b 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1950 [Part H— Sec. 3 


(10) Any other expression which is defined either in the Provident Funds 
Act, 1925 (XIX of 1925) or in the Fundamental Rules, is used in the sense therein 
defined. 

3. Constitution and Management of the Fund. — (1) The fund shall be deemed 
to have been constituted and established as from the 1st April, 1954, and shall 
be maintained in India in rupees. 

(2) The Fund shall consist of : — 

(i) the subscriptions and contributions which are to be credited to the 

Fund in accordance with these rules. 

(ii) such additions as the Governing Body may, at any time or from 

time to time decide to make; and 

(iii) such insterest as may accrue as a result of investment in the manner 

provided by sub-rule (3) of this rule. 

(3) The Fund or any portion of the Fund, may at the discretion of the 
Governing Body be invested in one or more of the following ways, that is to say, 

(a) as a deposit in the Post Office Savings Bank; 

(b) as a fixed deposit in the Central Bank of India, Ltd.; 

(c) in securities of the Central or State Governments of India; 

(d) in Treasury bills; 

(e) in Municipal or Port Trust debentures. 

4. The Fund shall be vested in and managed by the Governing Body. 

5. (1) These rules shall apply to all employees of the Institute who apply to 
the Director to be allowed to subscribe to the Fund, except such employees as 
the Governing Body may in their discretion decide not to admit thereto. 

(2) No employee shall be entitled to subscribe to the Fund in respect of any 
period prior to the month in which he makes the application referred to in sub- 
rule (1) of this rule, 

6. Nomination.^ (1) A subscriber shall, as soon as may be, after joining the 
Fund, sand to the Director a nomination conferring on" one or more persons 
the right to receive the amount that may stand to his credit in the Fund, in the 
event of his death before that amount has become payable, or having become 
payable, has not been paid: 

Provided that if at the time of making the nomination the .subscriber has 
a family, the nomination shall not be in favour of any person or 
persons other than the members of his family. 

(2) If a subscriber nominates more than one person under sub-rule (1) he 
shall specify in the nomination the amount or share payable to each of the 
nominees in such manner as to cover the whole of the amount that may stand to 
his credit in the Fund at any time. 

(3) Every nomination shall be in such one of the Forms set forth in the 
First Schedule as Is appropriate in the circumstances. 

(4) A subscriber may at any time cancel a nomination by sending a notice in 
writing to the Director: 

Provided that the subscriber shall along with such notice send a fresh 
nomination made in accordance with provisions of this rule, 

(5) A subscriber may provide in a nomination : — 

(a) in respect of any specified nominee that in the event of his pre- 

deceasing the subscriber, the right conferred upon that nominee 
shall pass to such other person as may be specified In the nomina- 
tion; 

(b) that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of the happen- 

ing of a contingency specified therein; provided that if at the time 
of making the nomination the subscriber has no family, he shall 

provide in the nomination that it shall become invalid in the event 

of his subsequently acquiring a family, 

(0) Immediately on the death of a nominee in respect of whom no special 
provision has been made in the nomination under clause (a) of sub-rule (5) or 
on the occurrence of any event by reason of which the nomination becomes 

invalid in pursuance of clause (b) of sub-rule (5) or the proviso thereto (tie 



Paht II— Sec. 3] ' THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1956 


121 


subscriber shall send to the Director a notice in writing cancelling the nomina- 
tion together with a fresh nomination made in accordance with the provisions 
of this rule. 

(7) Every nomination made, and every notice of cancellation given by a 
subscriber shall, to the extent that it is valid, take effect on the date on which 
it is received by the Director. 

7. Subscribers’ Accounts. — An account shall be opened in the name of each 
subscriber in which shall be credited : — 

(i) the subscriber’s subscriptions; 

(ii) contributions made under rule 11(1) by the Institute to his account; 

(iii) interest, as provided by rule 12, on subscriptions; and 

(Iv) interest, as provided by rule 12, on contributions. 

8. Conditions and Rates of Subscriptions. — (1) Every subscriber shall subscribe 
monthly to the Fund when on duty. 

(2) A subscriber may, at his option, not subscribe during leave. 

(3) A subscriber shall intimate his election not to subscribe during leave by 
written communication to the Director before he goes on leave. Failure to 
make due and timely intimation shall be deemed to constitute an election to 
subscribe. 

The option of a subscriber intimated under this sub-rule shall be final. 

9. The amount of subscription to the Fund shall be an amount equal to l/10th 
of a subscriber's emoluments rounded to the nearest whole rupee (eight annaa 
counting as the next higher rupee) ; 

Provided that if a subscriber is on duty for a part of a month and on 
leave for the remainder of that month, and if he has elected not 
to subscribe during leave, the amount of subscription payable shall 
be proportionate to the number of days spent on duty in that month. 

10. Realisation of Subscriptions. — The Governing Body shall have the power 
to deduct 'from the emoluments of any subscriber the subscription due from 
him on account of such emoluments, and the principal of and interest on any 
advance made to him from the Fund. 

11. Contribution by the Institute.^ ( 1 ) The Institute shall with effect from the 
31st March of each year make a contribution to the account of each subscriber : 

Provided that if a subscriber quits the service or dies during a year the 
contribution shall be credited to his account for the period between 
the close of the preceding year and the date of his quitting the 
service or dying, as the case may be. 

(2) The contribution shall be such percentage of the subscriber’s emoluments 
drawn on duty during the year, or oeriod as the case may be, as may be decided 
by the Governing Body subject to the condition that the rate ol such contribution 
shall not exceed that prescribed by the Central Government under clause (2) of 
rule 10 of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India). 

(3) If a subscriber is on deputation out of India, the emoluments which he 
would have drawn had he been on duty in India, shall, for the purpose of this 
rule be deemed to be emoluments drawn on duty. 

(4) Should a subscriber elect to subscribe during leave, his leave salary for 
the purposes of this rule be deemed to be emoluments drawn on duty. 

(5) The amount of contribution payable under this rule shall be rounded to 
the nearest whole rupee (eight annas counting as the next higher rupee) . 

12. Interest— (1) The Governing Body shall pay to the credit of the account 
of a subscriber Interest at such rate not exceeding that prescribed by the Central 
Government for the payment of interest on subscriptions to the General Provident 
Fund, as the Governing Body may, from time to time, prescribe on the amount 
at his credit in the Fund. 



122 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4. 1956 [Part II— Sec. 3 


(2) Interest shall be credited with effect from the 31st March of each year in 
the following manner: — 

(i) on the amount at the credit of a subscriber on the 31st March of the 
preceding year, less any sums withdrawn during the current year — 
interest for 12 months; 

(li) on sums withdrawn during the current year— interest from the 1st April 
of the current year upto the last day of the month preceding the 
month of withdrawal: 

(iil) on all sums credited to the subscriber’s account after the 31st March 
of the preceding year — interest from the date of deposit upto the 
31st March of the current year: 

(iv) the total amount of interest shall be rounded to the nearest whole 
rupee (eight annas counting as the next higher rupee) : 

Provided that when the amount standing at the credit of a subscriber 
has become payable interest shall thereupon be credited under this 
sub-rule in respect only of the period from the beginning of the 
current year or from the date of deposit, as the case may be, upto 
the date on which the amount standing at the credit of the subscriber 
became payable. 

(3) For the purposes of this rule the date of deposit shall, in the case of 
recoveries from emoluments, be deemed to be the first day of the month in which 
they are recovered, 

(4) In addition to any amount to he paid under rule 19, interest thereon upto 
the end of the month preceding that in which payment is made, or up to the end 
of the sixth month after the month in which such amount became payable, which- 
ever of these periods be less, shall be payable to the person to whom such amount 

is to be paid: 

Provided that no Interest shall be paid In respect of any period after the 
date which the Director has intimated to that person (or his agent) 
as the date on which he is prepared to make payment in cash, or if 
he pays by cheque, after the date on which the cheque in that person’s 
favour is put in the post. 

(5) Interest shall not be credited to the account of a Mohommedan subscriber 
If he informs the Director that he does not wish to receive it; but if he subse- 
quently asks for Interest, it shall be credited with effect from the 1st April of the 
year in which he asks for It. 


Advance from the Fund 

13. (1) A temporary advance may be granted to a subscriber from the amount 
standing to his credit in the Fund at the discretion of the Governing Body, who 
may delegate their power in this respect to the Director of the Institute. 

(2) A temporary advance may be granted by the authority specified in sub- 
rule (i) of this rule, subject to the following conditions, namely:— 

(a) No advance shall be granted unless the sanctioning authority is satisfied 
that the applicant’s pecuniary circumstances justify it, and that it 
will be expected on the following object or objects and not other- 
wise, — 

(i) to pay expenses incurred in connection with the prolonged illness of 
the applicant or any person actually dependant on him; 

(11) to pay obligatory expenses on a scale appropriate to the applicant’s 
status in connection with marriages, funerals or ceremonies which 
by his religion it is incumbent on him to perform. 

(ill) to meet the cost of education of a subscriber or of any person actually 
dependent on him for education outside India, whether for an 
academic, technical, professional or vocational course, or for medical, 
engineering, and other technical or specialised courses in India 
beyond the High School stage, provided that the Course of study lk 
not less than three years, including the cost of passages. 



T23 


Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1956 


(b) the advance shall not, save in exceptional cases, for reasons to be 

recorded in writing by that authority, exceed three months’ emolu- 
ments and shall, in no case exceed the amount of subscriptions and 
interest thereon standing to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund 
at the time when the advance is granted. 

(c) the sanctioning authority shall record in writing its reasons for granting 

the advance: 

Provided that if the reasons are of a confidential nature, they may be 
communicated by the subscriber to the Director personally and/or 
confidentially. 

14. An advance shall not except for special reasons to be recorded in writing 
by the sanctioning authority be granted under rule 13 until 12 months after tHe 
final repayment of the previous advance together with the interest thereon. 

15. (1) An advance shall be recovered from the subscriber in such number of 
equal monthly instalment as the sanctioning authority may direct; but such number 
shall not be less than twelve unless the subscriber so elects, or in any case more 
than twenty-four. A subscriber may, at his option, make repayment of a smaller 
number of instalments than that prescribed. Each instalment shall be a number 
of whole rupees. 

(2) Recovery shall be made In the manner provided in rule 10, and shall 
commence on the first occasion after the advance is made on which the subscriber 
draws emoluments, other than leave salary, for a full month. Recovery shall not 
be made, except with the subscriber’s consent, while he is on leave and may be 
postponed by the sanctioning authority during the recovery of an advance of 
pay granted to the subscriber, 

(3) (a) after the principal of the advance has been fully repaid, Interest shall 
be paid thereon at rate of one fifth per cent, of the principal of each month or 
broken portion of a month during the period between the drawal and complete 
repayment of the principal: 

Provided that Mahommedan subscribers whose deposit in the Fund carry no 
Interest shall not be required to pay into the Fund any additional instalments on 
account Of interest on advances granted to them from the Fund. 

(b) Interest shall ordinarily be recovered in one instalment in the month after 
complete repayment of the principal; but If the period referred in clause (a) 
exceeds twenty months, interest may, if the subscriber so desires, be recovered In 
two equal monthly instalments. The method of recovery shall be that provided in 
sub-rule (2) of this rule payment shall be rounded to the nearest whole rupee 
(eight annas counting as the next higher rupee), 

(4) Recoveries made under this rule shall be credited, as they are made to the 
account of the subscriber in the Fund. 

16. Circumstances In which accumulations are payable. — When a subscriber 
quits the service of the Institute the amount standing to his credit in the Fund 
shall, subject to any deduction under rule 18, become payable to him. 

17. Subject to any deduction under rule 18 on the death of a subscriber before 
the amount standing to his credit has become payable, or where the amount has 
become payable, before payment has been made— 

(i) when a subscriber leaves a family — 

(a) if a ^nomination made by the subscriber in accordance with the pro- 

visions of rule 0 in favour of a member or members of his family 
subsists, the amount standing to his credit in the Fund or the part 
thereof to which the nomination relates shall become payable to his 
nominee or nominees in the proportion specified in the nomination. 

(b) If no such nomination in favour of a member or members of the family 

of the subscriber subsists or if such nomination relates only to a 
part of the amount standing to his credit In the Fund the whole 
amount or the part thereof t.o which the nomination docs not, relate, 
as the case may be, shall, notwithstanding any nomination purport- 
ing to be in favour of any person or persons other than a member 
or members of his family, become payable to the members of his 
family In equal share: 



X2 4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1936 [Pari II— 9ec.— 3 


Provided that no share shall be payable to:— 

(1) sons who have attained legal majority; 

(2) sons of a deceased son who have attained legal majority; 

(3) married daughters whose husbands are alive; 

(4) married daughters of a deceased son whose husbands are alive, if there 

is any member of the family other than those specified in clauses (1). 
(2), (3) and (4) of this rule: 

Provided also that the widow and the child or children of a deceased son shall 
receive between them in equal parts only the share which that son would have 
received if he had survived the subscriber and had been exempted from the pro- 
visions of clause (i) of the first proviso to this rule. 

Note. — Any sum payable under this rule to a member of the family of a sub- 
scriber vests in such member under sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the Provident 
Fund Act, 192-5 (XIX of 1925); 

(ii) If the subscriber leaves no family, if a nomination made by him in 
accordance with the provisions of rule 0 in favour of any person or 
persona subsists the amount standing to his credit in the Fund or 
the part thereof to which the nomination relates, shall become payable 
to nis nominee or nominees in the proportion specified in the 
nomination. 

Note I. — When a nominee is a dependant of the subscriber as defined in 
clause (c) of section 2 of the Provident Fund Act, 1925 (XIX of 1925), the 
amount vests in such nominee under sub-sec .ion (2) of section 3 of that Ach 

Note II. — When the subscriber leaves no family and no nomination made by 
him in accordance with the provisions of rule 6 subsists, or if such nomination 
relates only to part of the amount standing to his credit in the Fund, the relevant 
provisions of clause (b) and of sub-clause (ii) of clause (c) of sub-section (1) 
of section 4 of the Provident Fund Act, 1925, are applicable to the whole amount 
or the part thereof to which the nomination does not relate. 

18. Deductions. — Subject to the condition that no deduction may be made which 
reduces the credit by more than the amount of any contribution by the Governing 
Body with interest thereon credited under rule 11, before the amount standing 
to the credit of a subscriber in the Fund is paid out of the Fund, the Governing 
Body may direct the deduction therefrom and payment to the Institute of — 

(a) any amount if a subscriber haB been dismissed from the service for 

grave misconduct: 

Provided that, if the order of dismissal is subsequently cancelled, the 
amount so deducted shall, on his reinstatement as an employee of 
the Institute, be replaced at his credit in the Fund; 

(b) any amount, if a subscriber resigns hi s employment under the Institute 

within five years of the commencement thereof, otherwise them by 
reason of a declaration by a medical authority approved by the 
Governing Body, that he is unfit for further service; 

(c) any amount due under liability incurred by the subscriber to the 

Institute. 

19. Payment. — (1) When the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber in 
the Ehmd or the balance thereof after any deduction under rule 18, becomes 
payable it shall be the duty of the Director after satisfying himself, when no 
mich deduction has been directed under these Rules that no deduction is to be 
made, to make payment as provided in section 4 of the Provident Fund Act, 1925 
(XIX of 1925) . 

(2) If the person to whom, under these rules, any amount is to be paid is a 
lunatic for whose estate a manager has been appointed in this behalf under the 
Indian Lunacy Act, 1912 (IV of 1912), the payment will be made to such manager, 
and not to the lunatic. 

(3) Any person who desires to claim payment under this rule shall send a 
written application in that behalf to the Director. Payment of amounts -with- 
drawn shall be made in India only. The persons to whom the amounts are payable 
shall make their own arrangements to receive payments in India. 



Past II— Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1956 


125 


20. Procedure.— (1) All sums paid into and from the Fund under these rules 
shall be accounted for in the books of the Director in an account named Central 
Institute of Research in Indigenous Systems of Medicine (C.I.R.I.S.M.) Provident 
Fund Account”. 


(2) Such account shall be examined and audited by the Comptroller, Saurash- 
tra in accordance with rule 2'5 of the Rules and Regulations of the Institute. 


(3) All expenses of the Fund shall be met by the Institute in such manner as 
the Governing Body may direct. 

(4) The custody and disbursement of the Fund shall be regulated by the 
Rules and Regulations of the Institute in the same manner as the Funds of the 
Institute. 

21. (1) As soon as possible, after the 31st March of each year, the Director 
shall send to each subscriber a statement of his account in the Fund, showing the 
opening balance as on the 1st April of the year, the total amount credited or 
debited during the year, the total amount of interest credited as on the 31st 
March of the year and the closing balance on that date. The Director shall attach 
to the statement of account an enquiry whether the subscriber — 

(a) desires to make an alteration in any nomination made under rule 6; 

(b) has acquired a family in cases where the subscriber has made no nomi- 

nation in favour of a member of his family under the proviso to sub- 
rule (1) of rule 6. 

(2) Subscribers should satisfy themselves as to the correctness of the annual 
statement and errors should be brought to the notice of the Director within six 
months of the date of receipt of the statement. 

22. The Director shall if required by a subscriber, once, but not more than 
once, inform a subscriber of the total amount standing to his credit in the Fund 
at the end of the last month for which his account has been written up. 

23. If any doubt arises as to the interpretation of these rules, the matter shall 
be referred to the Governing Body whose decision shall be final and binding on 
the subscribers. 

24. Every subscriber shall sign an agreement in the form set forth in the 
Second Schedule agreeing to abide and be bound by the rules as in force for the 
time being. 

25. (1) The Fund may be wound up — 

fa) If the institute be dissolved, or if it be amalgamated with any other 
Association or Society, or 

(b) by resolution of the Governing Body approved by the Central 
Government. 

(2) On the winding up of the Fund, the assets shall be realised and distributed 
amongst subscribers in accordance with their accounts. 

26. No amendments to these rules shall be made without the previous sanction 
of the Central Government. 


CENTRAL INSTITUTE OF RESEARCH IN INDIGENOUS SYSTEMS OF 
MEDICINE, JAMNAGAR. 

Contributory Provident Fund 

Form I 

Form I First Schedule [Rule 6(3)] 


Depositor No, 

Subscriber’s Nomination 

When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominate one member thereof. 

I hereby nominate the person mentioned below who is a member of my family 
as defined in rule 2 of the Jamnagar Research Institute (Contributory Provident 
Fund) Rules, 1956 to receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund, 



126 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1950 [Part II— Sec. 3 


in the event of my death before that amount has become payable, or having be- 
come payable has not been paid: — 


Name and 
address of 
nominee 

Relationship 
with the sub- 
scriber 

{ 

Age 

Contingencies on 
the happening of 
which the nomination 
shall becom: invalid 

Nam:, address and relation- 
ship of the person, if any, to 
whom the right of the nomi- 
nee shall pass in the event of 
his predeceasing the subs- 
criber 

Nam; 




Name 

Addresg 



( 

Address 





Relationship 

Dated this 

day 

of 


at 


Two witnesses to signature Signature of subscriber 

1. Name 2. Name 

Occupation Occupation 

Address Address 


CENTRAL INSTITUTE OF RESEARCH IN INDIGENOUS SYSTEMS, OF 
MEDICINE, JAMNAGAR 
Contributory Provident Fund 
First Schedule [Rule 6(3)] 

Form-11, Depositor No. 

Subscriber’s Nomination 

When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominate more than one mem- 
ber thereof. 

I hereby nominate the persons mentioned below who are members of my family 
as defined in rule 2 of the Jamnagar Research Institute (Contributory Provident 
Fund) Rules, 195G to receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund, 
in the event of my death before that amount has become payable, or having be- 
come payable, has not been paid, and direct that the said amount shall be distri- 
buted among ihe said persons in the manner shown below against their names. 


Name aud 
address of 
nominees 


Nam; 


| Relationship 
with subs- 
criber 

] 

Age | 

‘Amount or 
share of accu- 
mulations to be 
paid to each 

Contingencies on 
the happening of 1 
which the nomi- 
! nation shall be- j 
come invalid. 

Name, address and 
relationship of the per- 
son, if any, to whom the 
right of the nominee 
shall pass in the event 
of his predeceasing the 
subscriber 


Name 


Address 


Address 


Relationship 


N. B. — The subscriber should draw line across the blank space below his last entry to prevent 
insertion of any nam:s after he has signed. 

Dated this day of at Signature of subscriber. 

Two witnesses to signature 

x. Nam; 2 . Name 

Qccupftion Occuption 

Address Address 

•This; column should be filled in so a3 to cover the whole amount that may 
Stand at the credit of the subscriber in the fund at any time. 


Pabt II — Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1050 


127 


CENTRAL INSTITUTE OF RESEARCH IN INDIGENOUS SYSTEMS OF 
MEDICINE JAMNAGAR 

Contributory Provident Fund 

First Schedule [Rule 6(3)] 

Form III. Depositor No. 

Subscriber’s Nomination 

When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate one person. 


I, having no family as defined in rule 2 of the Jamnagar Research Institute 
(Contributory Provident Fund) Rules, hereby nominate the person mentioned 
below to receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund, in the 
event of my death before that amount has become payable, or having become 
payable has not been paid: — 


Name and address 

Name 


of the nominee 

Address 


Relationship with 


Age 

subscriber 



•Contingencies on the happening of which the nomination shall become invalid. 


Name, address and relationship of the person, if any, 
to whom the right of nominee shall pass in the event of 
his predeceasing the subscriber 


Name 

Address 

Relationship 


Dated this 

Two witnesses to signature 

i. Name 

Occupation 

Address 


day of at 

Signature of subscriber 


2. Nams. 
Occupation. 
Address. 


•Where a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination, he shall specify 
in this column that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of his 
subsequently acquiring a famly. 


CENTRAL INSTITUTE OF RESEARCH IN INDIGENOUS SYSTEMS OF 
MEDICINE, JAMNAGAR 

Contributory Provident Fund 

First Schedule [Rule 6(3)] 

Form-IV. Depositor No. 


Subscriber’s Nomination 

When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate more than one 
person. 

I, having no family as defined in rule 2 of the Jamnagar Research Institute 
(Contributory Provident Fund) Rules, 1960 hereby nominate the persons mention- 
ed below to receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund, in the 





128 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1958 [Paht II— Sec. 3 


event of my death before that amount has become payable or having become 
payable has not been paid, and direct that the said amount shall be distributed 
among the said persons in the manner shown below against their names. 


Name and ad- 
dress of nominee 

Relationship 
with subscriber 

Age 

‘Amount or 

! share of ac- 
cumulations to 
ibe paid to each 

tConting;neie s 
on the happen- 
ing of which the 
nominate shall 
become inalid 

Name, address and 
relationship of the 
person, if any, to 
whom the right of the 
nr mlnee shall pass in 
the event of his pre- 
deceasing the subs- 
criber 

Name 

Address 

Name 

Address 

Relationship 


N.B. — The subscriber should draw lines across the blank space below his last en'ry to prevent 
the insertion of any nrmes aftct he has signed. 

Dated this day of at 

Two witnesses to signature. Signature of subscriber. 

I. Name 2. Name 

Occupation Occupation 

Address Address 


‘This column should be filled in so as to cover the whole amount that may 
stand to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time. 

fWhere a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination he shall specify 
in this column that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of his 
subsequently acquiring a family. 


CENTRAL INSTITUTE OF RESEARCH IN INDIGENOUS SYSTEMS OF 
MEDICINE, JAMNAGAR. 

Contributory Provident Fund 
Second Schedule (Rule 24) 

Form of Agreement 

I hereby declare that I have read the Jamnagar Research (Contributory Pro- 
vident Fund) Rules, 1950 and that I agree to abide and be bound by them. 

Dated day of year at 

Name in full 

Date of birth. 

Date of Joining appointment 

Nature of appointment 

Salary per mensem 


Rupees. 

Signature 

Designation 

Address 


Station 

Date 

Witnesses: 

(1) Name (2) Name 

Address Address 

Occupation Occupation 

[No. F.8-23/54-Med.) 
K. BIHARI, Under Secy. 




Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1956 


12 $} 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the 24 th January 1956 

S.R.O. 242.- — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 of the Indian 
Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923), the Central Government hereby 
directs that the following amendments shall be made in the rules to regulate the 
granting of Certificates of Competency to Masters and Mates in the Mercantile 
Marine published with the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Transport No. S.R.O. 1965, dated the 12th June 1954, namely: — 

In the said rules: — 

1. Before the word “For” in the footnote at page 6 of the Rules the mark 

shall be inserted. 

2. In rule 31(d) of appendix E, for the abbreviation “. . — the abbre- 

viation “ ’* shall be substituted. 

3. In the concluding portion of question No. 1 under MAGNETIC AND 

GYRO COMPASS of Specimen set of examination papers for Master 
(foreign-going) in appendix K, for the word “deviations”, the word 
“deviation” shall be substituted. 

4. In line 3 of question No. 1 under ELEMENTARY SHIP KNOWLEDGE of 

Appendix K, for the figures and words “B50, 3975:3 1100, 1260 and 1400 
tons respectively”, the figures and words “850, 975, 1100, 1250 and 

1400 tons respectively” shall be substituted. 

[No. 67-MA(18)/55.J 


(Transport Wing) 

Merchant Shipping 


New Delhi, the 25 th January 1950 

S.R.O.] 243. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rules 3 and 4 of the 
Control of Shipping (Rates) Rules, 1949, the Central Government hereby consti- 
tutes a Shipping Rates Advisory Board consisting of Shri N. S. Lokur, Chairman, 
Railway Rates Tribunal, to examine and report on the proposal of the Bombay 
Steam Navigation Co.j (1953) Ltd., Bombay, to increase the passenger fares in 
the Konkan trade taking into account the various considerations relating to their 
increased operational costs, the need to build up reserves or meet additional dep- 
reciation, cost of replacement of their overaged vessels, loss of revenue on 
account of suspension of their Panjim service etc., and also the requests of the 
various passengers’ associations like the Konkan Deck Passengers’ Association 
etc., for a reduction in the existing level of fares. 

2. The Board shall submit its report within four weeks from the date it starts 
functioning. 


[No. 35-MS(l)/66J 
S. K. GHOSH, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 

Next) Delhi, the 25 th January 1956 

S.R.O. 244, — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Mines 
and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (LIII of 1948), the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the Mineral 
Concession Rules, 1949, namely: — 

In clause (ii) of rule 3 of the said Rules, after the word “gravel” tha 
words “Chalcedony pebbles” shall be inserted. 

[No. MII-I52‘(289) /53.J 
R. N. VASUDE.VA, Dy. Secy. 



13 ° 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1950 [Part II— Sec. 3 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

New Delhi, the 30th January 1956 

S.R.O. 245. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Indian 
Telegraph Act, 1885 (XIII of 1885), the Central Government makes the follow- 
ing amendment to the Indian Wireless Telegraphy (Commercial Radio Operators 
Certificates of Proficiency and Licence to operate Wireless Telegraphy) Rules, 
1954, namely : — 


In paragraph 5 of Appendix IV to Annexure II to the said rules for the 
words “Until further orders the practical tests will be conducted 
on the apparatus listed below”, the words “The practical tests will 
be conducted on the apparatus listed below or on any other type 
of Maritime and Aero-mobile apparatus which has been approved 
by the Central Government” shall be substituted. 


[No. WE-3/15/64,] 
T. R. MANTAN, Dy, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 27th January 1956 

S.R.O. 246. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of Sub-Sec- 
tion (2) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilita- 
tion) Act, 1954, (44 of 1954) the Central Government hereby rescinds the 
notification of the Government of India in this Ministry of Rehabilitation letter 
No. F. 10 (92) SI/55 dated the 29th June, 1955. 


[No. 27/10/55-SII.] 
M. L. PURI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 27 th January 1956 


S.R.O. 247. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of 
Section 6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), 
the Central Government hereby appoints in consultation with the Custodian 
General of Evacuee Property for the State of Delhi, Shri R. L. Gupta, Assistant 
Settlement Commissioner in the office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner, 
Delhi, as ex-officio Deputy Custodian of Evacuee Property, for the purpose of 
discharging the duties Imposed on the Custodian, by or under the said Act, with 
effect from the 1st February, 1956. 


[No. XVI-21(1) /56-Prop. II.] 
J. J. KARAM, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 


New Delhi, the 24th January 1956 


S.R.O. 248. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the Dehri 
Rohtas Light Railway Company Limited, Dalmianagar, and their workmen. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1956 


13 * 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 
Reference No. 15 of 1954 
Present 

Shri P. S. Bindra, B.A.LL.B., Chairman. 

Parties 


Management in relation to the Dehri Rohtas Light Railway Co. Limited 


their workmen. 


AND 


Appearances 

For the management . — Shri Shyamlal Agarwal. 

For the workmen. — Shri Shibnath Banerjee and Shri G. D. Bajpai. 


AWARD 

By Government of India, Ministry of Labour, Order No. S.R.O. 3278 dated 19th 
October 1954 and subsequent Order No, 599 dated 11th March 1955, the Industrial 
dispute between the Dehri Rohtas Light Railway Company Limited, Dalmianagar, 
and the Dehri Rohtas Light Railway Employees’ Union, representing the majority 
of the workmen, has been referred to this Tribunal for adjudication. 


Issue No, 1 


2. Six months bonus for the year 1953-54 be paid to all the employees accord- 
ing to the period they have served irrespective of any service restrictions. Those 
who retired after having served even part of the period under question last year 
should also be eligible to get bonus. 


On behalf of the management Shri Talwar, a Chartered Accountant has pre- 
pared the statements marked 1 to 10 (exhibits 391, 392, 393, 394, 395 and 396 res- 
pectively) which show a deficit of Rs. 3,56,362 instead of showing any surplus 
from which any bonus can be awarded. Shri Talwar however modified this figure 
when examined as a witness and stated that he had calculated income tax on the 
sum of Rs. 9,47,477 which came to Rs. 4,11,560 but that he failed to deduct the 
Statutory Depreciation amounting to Rs. 5,02,659 from the sum of Rs. 9,47,477 and 
that thus the tax due will be Rs, 1,93,217 instead of Rs. 4,11,560 and the nett defi- 
ciency will stand at Rs, 1,38,021 instead of Rs, 3,56,362. The company has examin- 
ed Shri Talwar, Chartered Accountant, Shri Chetanlal Jain. Accountant of the 
Company, and Shri Gulati. General Manager of the Railway to support the state- 
ments marked 1 to 10, These witnesses were cross-examined at length and the 
company also placed at the disposal of the workmen all its account books which 
were checked by the workmen for three days but not a single discrepancy has 
been pointed out. The company produced the vouchers to support the entries. 
Shri Bajpai has also not attached the correctness of the accounts maintained by 
the company during the course of his arguments. Shri Bajpai has however 
during the course of his arguments filed the statements marked A, B, C, D and E 
to show that a surplus is available for the grant of bonus. There is however a 
basic error in the method of calculation adopted by Shri Bajpai. In Order to 
find out rehabilitation charges he has divided locomotives, goods stock, coaching 
stock, buildings and machinery, into two sets, one pre 1947 and the other as post 
1947. Tor the period of post 1947 he has not taken into account the current prices 
but has taken the value of stock at which they were purchased after 1947. No 
multiple has been used for the stock purchased after 1947 though the usual mul- 
tiple of 2-25 in case of buildings and 2-5 in the case of machinery has been used 
for purchases prior to 1947. The management has proved on record the present 
prices of the locomotives and the other rolling stock and I see no reason why the 
actual current prices which the company has proved, should not be taken into 
account for rehabilitation and why the calculations should be made on the basis 
of old prices. Shri Baipai has however relied upon on the Full Bench case report- 
ed as 195Q-II-L.L.J. 1247, but I do not think it supports the proposition put for- 
ward by Shri Bajpai. As the statements prepared by him are basically wrong, 
they cannot be relied upon to find out the rehabilitation charges. 



132 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1956 [Part II— Sec. 3 


3. Shri Talwar has prepared statement No. 1 regarding the locomotives which 
shows the company has got 13 locomotives. The year of make is given in each 
case and the normal life is calculated at 35 years. The replacement cost is men- 
tioned against each locomotive. Shri Bajpai has accepted the normal life of a 
locomotive as 35 years. Shri Talwar has pointed out that so far as locomotives 
numbered as 3, 5, and 0 are concerned whose price is mentioned as Rs. 1,76,000, 
each there is a quotation from William Jacks & Co. Ltd. dated 27th May 1955 
marked Exhibit 370 which shows that the price F.O.R, Calcutta is Rs. 1,73,750 
adding the usual transport charges to it, the price comes to Rs. 1,70,000 each, 
which has been shown in statement No. 1. He has also pointed out that there is 
another quotation from Steam & Mining Equipment (India) Limited, Calcutta 
dated 9th March 1955 marked Exhibit 372, wherein against item C the price at tha 
British Port is shown as £ 9026. After adding the other charges mentioned therein, 
the price comes to almost the same amount. Regarding the engines numbered as 
7, 8, 9 and 10 which are ZB locomotives, they were recently purchased by the- 
company and the price shown in the statement is supported by Exhibit 373. So. 
far as tne locomotives numbered as 1, 2, 11, 12 and 13 are concerned which are. 
Tank type, their price is shown as Rs. 60,000 each. In support of this, there is a. 
quotation of Poddar Brothers dated 11th September 1954 marked Exhibit 309 
which is a quotation for 2 feet gauge diesel locomotive but not a steam locomotive- 
for which we have to assess the price. The price is quoted for a locomotive 
having gauge of 2 feet while the locomotives In dispute are of 2 feet 0 inches; 
gauge. Considering the fact that diesel engines are more costly, the price 
quoted by Poddar Brothers is cut down by 25 per cent which gives the value at 
about Rs. 60,000. Taking the average normal lief as 35 years, these engines will 
have to be replaced within a period of 11 years. So the sum of Rs. 20,20,000 win 
have to be found within a period of 1 1 years. Thus the rehabilitation cost of: 


locomotives comes to as follows: — 

Rs. 

Replacement cost . 20,20,0001 

Da iuct depreciation reserve 3,96,000 

Balance 16,24,000 

Deduct reserves .......... 1,92,000 

Balance . . . . , 14,32,000 


This sum will be required in 11 years, so annual rehabilitation share comes to* 
Rs. 1,30,101. 

4. So far as the goods stock is concerned, the position is shown by statement. 
No. 2 marked Exhibit 388. The average life of the goods stock is taken as 20 years; 
by the company but Shri Bajpai has argued that it should be 30 years and be based 
hts argument on page 183 of Conference Rules, Part III issued by the Indian 
Railway Conference Association. Three categories of wagons are shown at page- 
183. The life of wooden vehicle is shown as 15 years, of iron and steel vehicles 
as 30 years and of all other vehicles including wooden vehicles or wagons with* 
steel under-frames is shown as 20 years. Shri Bajpai says that these wagons fall 
under category No. 2 and therefore their average life should be taken as 30 years. 
The management on the other hand, has replied that the price of the steel vehicles 
whose life Is 30 -years is Rs. 14,850 and Rs. 17,250 without wheels and axles, as 
will be evident from the quotations of the Railway Board dated 19th November 
1955 marked Exhibit 386. The price of the wheels and axles is about Rs. 3,000 
and so a steel wagon which lasts for 30 years costs about Rs. 20,000 but the company 
has charged Rs. 4,000 only for each wagon. This has been done in view of the* 
fact that these wagons are manufactured by the company itself. Considering that 
the price charged by the company is about 20 per cent, of the price of the wagons, 
which last 30 years, the company is well within its rights to calculate the average 
life of these wagons at 20 years and not more. Thus the rehabilitation cost of 


_ - " ■ uuqii VJ 

the goods stock comes to: 

Rs. 

Replacement cost 18,45,000 

4,16,000 

Deduct depreciation reserve 14,29,000 

Deduct the reserves .......... 2 'i3*8oo 


12,15,200 

The future life of these wagons at the average comes to 13 years. So this sum 
of Rs. 12,15,200 will have to be provided for within a period of 13 years and thus 
the sum required would be Rs. 93,477. 



Part II— Sec, 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4 , 1950 


133 


6, Statement No, 3 shows the position of the coaching stock. So far as the 
price factor is concerned, it is borne out by the letter from the Chief Mechanical 
Engineer, Northern Railway, dated 13th October, 19*55 marked Exhibit 382. The 
company has calculated the average life at 20 years but I think it is wrong and 
should be taken at 30 years. A perusal of Exhibit 382 will reveal that the normal 
life of coaching stock is shown as 30 years. If the normal life is taken as 30 
years then 7 years will be required to replace the stock. Hence rehabilitation 


■cost for coaching stock comes to as follows: — 

Rs. 

Replacement cost .......... 6,91,300 

.. Deduct depreciation reserve ........ 75,000 

6,16,300 

< Deduct reserves .......... 1,49,200 

4,67,100 


The period required for rehabilitation being 7 years, the amount comes to 
Rs. 66,700. 

Replacement cost for locomotives, goods stock, and coaching stock comes to: — 

Rs. 

Locomotives . . 1,30,181 

Goods stock . . 93,477 

Coaching stock . 66,700 


2 , 90,358 


6. Statement No. 5 shows the replacement cost regarding buildings and machi- 
nery. The cost has been taken per balance sheet as on 31st March 1954 and for 
working out the replacement cost, the multiple of 2-25 has been used regarding 
'buildings and 2-5 regarding machinery. After deducting Rs. 08,000 for building 
.and Rs. 41,000 for machinery, out of the depreciation reserves provided for in the 
accounts and deducting Rs. 83,000 for building and Rs. 30,000 for machinery out 
of the reserves available, the net amount of rehabilitation required for buildings 
■comes to Rs. 0,95,000 and for machinery Rs. 3,38,000. So far as the life of the 
buildings ip concerned, it is pointed out that these buildings are of third class 
type. Even if they are taken to be of second class type, their life would not be 
more than 50 to 55 years. These buildings were constructed round about 1910 
and 44 years have already passed. This sum has to be provided for in another 
ten years. Thus the annual share of rehabilitation would come to Rs. 70,000 in 
case of buildings and Rs. 34,000 in the case of machinery. 

7. Statement No. 8 shows the replacement cost in respect of permanent way, 
hidings and bridges etc. The cost of rails is based on a circular letter from the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Iron and Steel Control) Calcutta, dated 
29th March 1954 marked Exhibit 384. Item No. 11 shows the price of 30 lb rails 
«s Rs. 411. Circular letter of 2 of 1955 marked Exhibit 385 which is dated 1st 
October 1955 shows that the price has now risen to Rs. 53*5 but the management 
has calculated at the old rate of Rs. 411. The life of the rails according to the 
letter of the Chief Engineer, Eastern Railway, Calcutta, dated 20th September 
1955 (marked Exhibit 383) is 60 years in case of rails and fastenings, 12 years in 
case of sleepers wood, and 40 years in case of permanent way points and crossings. 
There appears to be no mistake regarding statement No. 6 and it shows that the 
sum of Rs. 1,95,000 is required for rehabilitation of permanent way, sidings 
bridges etc. 

8. The allocation of the amount of capital and general reserves is shown in 
statement No. 8 (Exhibit 394) , So far as the allocation of depreciation reserve is 
concerned, it has been allocated as follows: — 


(0 Statement No. 4 regarding locomotives, goods stock and coaching 


stock 8,87,000 

(it) Statement No. 5 regarding buildings and machinery . 68,000 

(Hi) Statement No. 6 regarding permanent way, siding, bridges, etc. 8, 22,000 

(«») Statement No. 7 regarding cars ....... 10,000 

Total . , 18,28,000 



134 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1930 [Part II— Sec. 3 


9. In fact Ra. 13,90,659 which was the Depreciation Reserve at the beginning of 
the year should have been accounted for. Shri Talwar has pointed out that by 
mistake he has allocated Rs. 18,28,000 instead of Rs. 13,90,000 out of Depreciation 
Reserve. This balance of about Rs. 4,40,000 can be set off against breakdown 
value which is usually taken at 5 per cent. This amount is much more than the 
breakdown value. 

10. Hence the net result is as follows: — 


Rs 

Net profit for the year ending 31st March, 1954 as per Profit and Loss account 4,67,014 


Add the amount of depreciation provided and charged in the accounts , r 4,67,50O 

9 : 34,514 

Deduct managing agents commission not included in the net profit 

shown above ...... 54,57$ 

8,79,938 

Add amount of tax in respect of previous year charged this year . . 67,539 

Total — Profits . 947477 


Amount required for annual rehabilitation comes to : — 

Locomotives, goods stock, and coaching stock as mentioned above . 1,90,358 

Buildings & Machinery ......... 1,04,000 

Permanent way, sidings, etc. ........ 1 ,95,000 

Cars and conveyance statement No. 7 ...... 3,000 

Total . . 5,92,35 s 


The amount required for taxes comes to : — 

Profits 4,67,014 

Add depreciation provided for ........ 4,67,500 

9,34,Ji4 

Deduct managing agents commission ....... 54,57$ 

8,79,93 s 

Add Bonus ........... $7,539 

9,47477 

Deduct statutory depreciation vide Exhibit 32 .... 5,02,659 

4,44,818 

Income tax and corporation tax on the above sum comes to . . 1,93,217 


11. Interest on subscribed capital has to be calculated at 6 per cent, which is 
a usual rate allowed in almost all Industries. I may point out that the shares 
Issued by the company do not include any bonus shares. So this amount of 6 per 
cent, cannot be reduced to 5 per cent, as contended by Shri Bajpai. Calculating 
at 6 per cent, the interest on paid up capital comes to Rs. 1,35,000. 

So far as the interest on reserves employed in business is concerned the posi- 


tion is as follows: — 

Rs. 

Capital reserve 1,50,000 

General reserve .......... 10,25,000 

Depreciation reserve ......... 13,90,659 

Deduct investment amount ........ 25,65,659 

(page 7 of the balance sheet) ........ 5,3$i 


25,60,298 



Part II— (Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4 , 1958 


135 


The evidence of Shri Talwar and Shri C. L. Jain shows that all this amount 
was utilised as working capital throughout the year. It has been argued by Shri 
Bajpai that the day to day income of the company can meet the daily expenses,, 
so there was no need to employ capital reserve or depreciation reserve as work- 
ing capital. A look at the balance sheet will reveal that while the subscribed 
capital comes to about rupees twentythree lakhs, the amount invested in fixed 
assets comes to about rupees fiftyflve lakhs. The balance has to be met from the 
reserves. The company had also to take loans and page 6 of the balance sheet 
reveals that there were Mortgage Debentures at 5i per cent of the value of rupee* 
fifteen lakhs. Under the circumstances, I am of opinion that the total amount of 
reserves was employed as working capital and I allow 4 per cent interest on the- 
amount of reserves employed as working capital, as the modern trend is 4 per 
cent and not 2 or 3 per cent. Calculating at the rate of 4 per cent, interest on 
reserves employed as working capital comes to Rs. 1,02,408. 

12. Thus the overall picture is as follows: — 


Rs. 

Total profit as shown above ........ 9A1A77 

Annual share for rehabilitation ....... 5 ) 92,358 

Taxes 1 , 93,217 

Interest on paid-up capital ......... 1,35,000 

Interest on reserves employed in business ...... 1,02,408 

Depreciation on assets other than included 
in the annual share of rehabilitation ...... 7,871 


10,30,854 


So there will be a deficiency to the extent of Rs. 83,377 (Rs. 10.30,854 minus- 
Rs. 9,47,477). This shows that instead of leaving any surplus, there is a net defi- 
ciency of about Rs. 83,000 after meeting the usual prior charges, so no claim for 
bonus can be entertained. 

13. IsAues Nos. 2 and 3 are hereby dealt with together. 

Issue No. 2 

The existing dearness allowance should be merged with the basic salary of alii 
the employees and a flat rate increment of Rs. 15 should be given to all with effect 
from 1st April, 1954. 


Issue No. 3 

Revision of present grades as put in annexure ‘A’. 

The union has claimed merger of dearness allowance with basic salary a flat, 
rate of increment to the extent of Rs. 15 per mensem and also the revision of the 
present grades as put in in annexure ‘A’. The management has replied that no- 
other Light Railway has so far merged dearness allowance with the basic wages 
and that it will upset the whole wage structure. The management has also quoted 
1955 — L.A.C. 95 which supports the management. As regards Increments, It Is 
pointed out that the basic wage has been increased by 150 per cent from the year 
1944 viz. from Rs. 12 to Rs. 30 in case of minimum paid labour and from Rs. 20' 
to Rs. 50 in the case of clerks, whereas the increase in the cost of living has been 
only 50 per cent from 1944, The position has been amplified in annexures ‘A’ and 
‘B’ attached to the written statement. The perusal of annexure ‘A’ will show that 
in the case of unskilled workmen in the year 1944-45 the total emoluments 
(minimum wages, dearness allowance and ration allowance) came to Rs. 21 which 
were increased to Rs, 30 in the year 1940-47 vide agreement, dated 25th October,. 
1946. In the year 1947-48 the emoluments were increased to Rs. 37 vide agreement, 
dated 29th May, 1947, and they were further increased to Rs. 45 vide agreement,, 
dated 19-12-1947 and further increase to Rs. 52 was made in the year 1948-49 vide 
agreement, dated 24-11-1948. In the year 1950-51 they were increased to- 
Rs. 55 vide award given by the Chairman, Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, dated 16tht 
August, 1951, and they were further increased to Rs, 60 in the year 1952-53 by 
virtue of the award of this Tribunal, dated 27th August 1952. Similarly by virtue- 
of various agreements and the two awards, the emoluments of the staff were 
raised from Rs. 29 in the year 1944-45 to Rs. 85 in the year 1952-53. It is a settled 
principle of law that the wage standard fixed by award cannot be changed unless 
there is change of circumstances. Either there should be a rise in the cost of 
living or the balance sheet of the company should reveal greater profits. In the 



136 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1956 [Part II— Sec. 3 


present case the company declared a dividend of 6i per cent, in the year 1951-62 
and the same sum of dividend in the year 1952-53. In the year 1953-54 it 
declared a dividend of 7 1/2 per cent. So the financial position of the company is 
slightly better this year, But one year’s rise in profits is not sufficient to warrant 
a general rise in wages. Of course slight adjustments can be made to meet the 
present requirements. The management has placed a comparative chart on the 
record, marked Exhibit 360. This chart gives the grades prevalent in the present 
railway, the grades demanded by the Union, the rates prevalent in the Martin Light 
Railway, and Bengal Provincial Light Railway. The rates of Bengal Light Railway 
are very low and have to be ignored, A fair comparison can be made with the 
Martin Light Railway. Except the starting salary of clerks, I find that the rates of 
wages in the present railway, fairly compare with those of the Martin Light 
Railway. In some cases, wages given by the Martin Light Railway are slightly 
higher but in other cases they are low r er than the wages paid by this railway. 
As already pointed out. the only marked difference is in the case of starting salary 
of clerks. A clerk of ‘A’ grade starts with Rs. 50, gets an increment of Rs. 3 and 
goes upto Rs. 80. A clerk of ‘B’ grade starts with Rs. 50. gets an increment of Rs. 5 
and goes upto Rs. 100. A clerk of ‘C’ grade starts with Rs. 60 and goes upto 
Rs. 120 while a ‘D’ grade clerk starts with Rs. 80 and goes upto Rs. 150. Clerks 
are also given house allowance varying from Rs. 10 to Rs. 18 per mensem accord- 
ing to their grade of salary. In case of Martin Light Railway there are two grades 
of clerks. The first grade starts at Rs. 60, with an increment of Rs. 3 and goes 
upto Rs. 90 and the second grade starts from Rs. 90 and goes upto Rs. 130 with an 
increment of Rs. 4. Considering the financial position of the company, I think the 
company can afford to raise the starting salary of clerks from Rs. 50 to Rs. 60. So 
"‘A’ grade will be Rs. 60-3-81, and ‘B’ grade will be Rs. 60-5-100, while the other 
grades will remain the same. They will continue to draw the house allowance as 
^granted these days. No clerk will get lesser pay than what he is drawing at 
present on account of the revision of the ‘A’ and ‘B’ grade of the clerks. Clerks 
drawing less than Rs. 50 will be given Rs. 60 as basic salary. I do not think that 
any other change in the wage structure is warranted. No case is made out for 
increase in the dearness allowance. The merger of dearness allowance with 
basic salary is out of question as It will upset the whole wage structure. 

Issue No. 4 

14. (al Confirmation of service should be made after six months after the 
'date of appointment and those who have already completed six months should be 
treated as confirmed in all respects. 

(b) Chance for promotion as well as for officiating should be accorded to the 
senior-most and period of seniority in service should be considered from the date 
of appointment not from the date of confirmation. Those cases, in which, claims 
of the Senior Employees for promotion have been superseded and the junior em- 
ployees have been favoured with, should be reconsidered and the senior either he 
given promotion or suitable compensation without causing any loss to the juniors 
-concerned. 

The confirmation of service is governed by Standing Orders of the company 
marked Exhibit 36. It is laid down that ordinarily confirmation shall be made on 
the completion of the probation period fixed for each candidate and that ordinarily 
this period shall not exceed one year. I do not think there is any valid reason for 
reducing the period of one year. The management has filed a list marked Exhibit 
43 showing several persons who have served for more than one year but have not 
been confirmed. The management has said that either they were engaged tempo- 
rarily or were the persons who were employed on daily wage for temporary 
works carried on at the instance of their clients who wanted railway sidings etc. 
to be constructed by the management for them. In this connection, it will be 
suffice to lay down that temporary posts should not exceed 10 per cent, of the 
total posts. Of course, for carrying on temporary works casual labour will have 
to be employed from time to time which cannot be made permanent. 

The contention of the union that seniority should count from the date of the 
appointment and not from the date of confirmation cannot be conceded as even in 
Government service seniority starts from the date of confirmation and not from the 
date of appointment. The cases of promotion cannot be reviewed as promotion is a 
matter which entirely rests with the management, unless there is an allegation 
about victimisation, which is wanting in the present cases. 

Issue No, 5 

15. Previous agreements with regard to allowance, service regulation, uniform 
and other remuneration should be implemented. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1958 


137 


This relates to the implementation of certain agreements with which this 
Tribunal has got nothing to do. There is a separate machinery provided for the 
purpose. 


Issue No. 6 

16. Q(uarter allowance should be given to all the employees according to their 
salary and sufficient arrangement for quarters for essential and needy employees 
should be made as early as possible. 

Housing is primarily the liability of the State and the company is doing its 
best. Almost all the members of the essential staff are provided with quarters 
failing which house allowance is given. It has also been pointed out during the 
course of arguments that 100 more quarters are going to be built as the manage- 
ment has succeeded in obtaining a subsidy from the Government. 

Issue No. 7 
Rest and Overtime 

17. (a) Weekly rest should be given to the Engineering and Traffic staff as 
other railways do. 

(b) Overtime should also be given to the Engineering and office staff. 

Railway servants are governed by the Railway Servants Hours of Employment 
Rules, 1931, and there Is no point in changing those rules. 

Issue No. 8 
Provident Fund 

18. Trustees provident Fund Rules Section 8 in the tenth line, the clause 
‘whichever be the lower’ should be deleted and ‘whichever be the higher' be in- 
serted and all the previous deduction should be set aside. The provision for loan 
from provident fund should be made. 

At present l/12th of the salary Is contributed by the employees and the company 
makes th|e same amount of contribution. No change is requested in this respect 
but the prayer is to change section 8 (exhibit 15). The prayer for change in the 
provident Rule is that while assessing the value of the investments and securities 
representing the monies belonging to the fund, the basis should be the actual cost 
or market value whichever be the ‘higher’, instead of whichever be the 
‘lower’. It would be against the principle of accounting to take the higher value. 
I may point out that these securities form a trust money and whether the securi- 
ties are valued at the actual cost or the market value, the securities remain the pro- 
perty of the employees and the management can have no benefit out of them. 

The other reauest is that there should be a provision for loan from the Provi- 
dent Fund, which I think, must be granted. The rules be amended after taking 
the proper sanction as to provide that the employees may be entitled to draw loans 
from the fund due at their credit for the purpose of sickness, education of children, 
and marriage of daughters. The amount to be withdrawn as loan should not how- 
ever exceed 2/3rd of the amount subscribed by the employee Irrespective of the 
amount contributed by the company. The amount of loan shall not exceed three 
months salary and it must be recoverable in 24 instalments from the salary of an 
employee. Interest at 3 per cent, per annum will be paid on the amount of loan 
which ultimately will be credited to the account of the employee. 

Issue No. 9 

19. Stoppage of annual Increment en masse as a punishment should be stopped. 
Stoppage of increment be restored to only in extreme cases and for time-limit 
only. Stoppage extended after the time limit in 1952-53 should be set aside and 
the employees affected by victimisation should get the annual increment from the 
date of expiry of the time limit. 

The stoppage of annual increments is done according to Rule 11 of the Standing 
Orders marked Exhibit 36. These rules have been certified by the Regional Labour 
Commissioner on 11th December 1953 and came Into force on 1st January 1954. I 
do not think any case is made out for amendment of these rules. 

Issue No. 10 

20. Gazetted holidays should he giveq to the office stuff also. 



I3« 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1950 [Fart II— Sec. 3 


It may be noted that this demand is made by the union for members of the 
clerical staff only and their prayer is that they should be granted gazetted holidays 
like manual workmen. The management has replied that the manual workmen 
designated as Class IV servants are getting no casual leave though they are given 
13 festival holidays. The clerical staff is getting 15 days casual leave besides seven 
festival holidays. The position becomes clear by having a look at the exhibit 43A. 
A perusal of this chart will reveal that the members of the clerical staff are 
getting 15 days casual leave and seven days festival holidays, i.e., 22 days, while 
class TV servants are getting only 13 festival holidays against 22 and they do not 
get any casual leave. The claim is based on the number of holidays given to the 
Class IV servants ignoring the benefit of casual leave. As the case now stands, 
the reply of the management is a complete answer to the demand. So I do not 
Increase the number of festival holidays given to the office staff. I have got no 
jurisdiction to provide casual leave to class IV servants as this is not covered by 
the reference. 


Issue No. 11 

21. In case of sick leave, binding of the company’s doctor’s certificate should be 
limited to those who reside in the railway premises or headquarters and for the 
rest, certificate of any licensed doctor or established Vaidya or Hakims or Homeo- 
paths should be accepted by the management. 

The prayer is not for the provision for sick leave but that the certificate of any 
licensed doctor or vaidya or hakim or homeopath should be accepted by the man- 
agement when leave is prayed for on the ground of sickness. If such a latitude is 
given, then it would not be possible to run the railways efficiently. It has been 
pointed out by the management that they have got a wholetime medical officer 
at Dehri-on-Sone who attends to all the patients at all the stations where they 
may fall ill. The total length of the railway line is 24 miles. So It is easy for the 
patients to reach Dehri-on-Sone and in case a patient is seriously ill, the doctor 
can go to the place and attend him. Anyhow if an employee has proceeded on 
leave to some out-station, then the company has got no right to insist on a certifi- 
cate of their own doctor. In that case an employee can send a certificate of a 
registered medical practitioner from that station but an employee who is not 
already on leave will not be entitled to avail of this concession, i.e. ordinarily it 
will be only the doctor of the company who will be authorised to recommend sick 
leave. I also give the option to the employees to obtain a certificate from a medical 
officer of a Government institution in case of sickness when an employee is living 
in his own house and not living in the railway premises. 

Issue No. 12 

22. Dally rated system should he abolished and be replaced by monthly rated 
system. All such employees working under daily rated system should be treated 
as monthly rated temporary hands, 

The management has explained that the workmen employed on daily rated 
system are to carry on temporary works only and I find that the percentage of 
such workmen is very small. For temporary works daily rated staff had to be 
engaged and it cannot be stopped in toto. 

Issue No. 13 

23. Pass and P.T.Os should be given to the retired employees as over Indian 
Government Railways. 

The union wants that passes and P.T.Os be given to the retired employees for 
travelling on Indian Government Railways and not on Dehri Rohtas Light Railway. 
Grant of such a concession lies in the hands of the Railway Board and the Railway 
Board has laid down that passes are not admissible to retired employees of non- 
government railways for journeys over Government railways vide Exhibit 357, 

Issue No. 14 

24. Sons or relatives of retiring employees should be appointed before their 
retirement. 

The management has replied that they give preference to the sons and depen- 
dents of their retiring employees subject to suitability. The management cannot 
be asked to provide for the relatives and sons of the retiring employees before 
their retirement. The principle of providing the relations of the retiring employees 
subject to their fitness is accepted by the management. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1966 139 


Issue No. 16 

25. Grades and designation arbitrarily withheld and reverted by the manage- 
ment should be thoroughly examined in collaboration with the representatives of 
the Unibn and the employees subject to such victimisation for no fault of theirs, 
be restored their respective grades and designation from the date of enforcement 
with suitable compensation. 

The management cannot be asked to examine certain cases regarding grading 
and reversion of employees in collaboration with the representatives of the Union. 
So far this right has not been acceded to the workmen. If there are any genuine 
cases, the Conciliation Officer can be approached who can do the needful. 

Issue No. 16 

26. The Union demands that the dismissal cases of Sri J. N. Ojha, B. S. Ojha, 
Assistant Station Masters and Jagdish, Pointsman should be withdrawn with the 
payment of back dues for the period they have been made to sit idle. 

J. N. Ojha. Assistant Station Master was handed over two charge-sheets, 
Exhibit 155, dated 12th October 1953 and Exhibit 163, dated 14th October 1653, 
which have resulted in his dismissal. The first charge is that he booked 40 maunds 
of firewood but he did not record the same in the Outward Goods Register, and 
that he did not record clock timings about certain train in the register maintained 
for the .purpose. It is also contended that Ojha did not check the signals on 25th 
September 1903. Even if these charges are established they would not call for 
dismissal. The second charge is that Enayetullah Khan, Station Master, had 
reported to the management that J. N. Ojha along with Hardayal, Carriage Fitter 
and B. P. Sinha had assaulted him when he went to the Btation at about 10 hours 
for joining his duty. It is true that E, Khan was assaulted and he did get injuries 
which forced him to retire but the question is as to whether there is any evidence 
to prove that J. N. Ojha participated in the assault. An enquiry committee was 
appointed about which J. N. Ojha wrote that he had no confidence. I agree that 
mere making such an allegation does not absolve the workman but it was for the 
management to piace the full enquiry report before this Tribunal to form its own 
opinion. Even the statement of E. Khan alleged to have been given during the 
course of the inquiry has not been placed on the file. Reliance is placed on the 
report Of the committee marked Exhibit 177. With the report of C. L. Jain are 
attached the findings of the inquiry committee. A perusal of the findings will 
show that initially the quarrel arose between B. P. Sinha, Assistant Station Master 
and E. Khan, Station Master. All that is alleged against J. N. Ojha is that he 
encouraged Hardayal to beat E. Khan, on which Hardayal gave a slap. As to what 
was the evidence on which these findings are based is not known. The manage- 
ment has not filed the statements of the witnesses recorded by the Enquiry Com- 
mittee. Neither E. Khan nor any other person has been examined before me by 
the management in this respect. As the evidence recorded in this case is not 
available it is not possible for me to judge as to whether the dismissal was justi- 
fied or not. Under the circumstances, I am of opinion that the dismissal of J. N. 
Ojha cannot be confirmed and it appears to be a case of victimisation. During the 
course of proceedings it was evident that the relations between the parties are 
very much strained and therefore it will not be advisable to reinstate him, but I 
grant him 15 days salary for each year of completed service plus three months 
salary as compensation. He will get the usual benefits such as provident fund, 
gratuity, etc. if otherwise entitled, 

27. B. S. Ojha . — He was working as an Assistant Station Master at Indrapuri. 
He was charged as follows: — 

"On enquiry by M/s. R. N. Sarkar and C. L. Jain in respect of detention of 
trains on 27th November 1951 at Dehri City and Tilothu Bazar 
stations it has been revealed that you were asleep at the time when 
the 1 Up Mixed Train reached Dehri City on the same date and other 
trains at Tilothu Bazar and the trains were detained at these stations 
for want of line clear from your station. Due to the detention of 
1 Up Mixed train at DTY the travelling public were put to great 
trouble. This is not the first chance that you slept during duty hours. 
Please explain why you will not be removed from the service of this 
Railway for your negligence to duties.’’ 

"Your explanation should reach this office within three days on receipt of 
this charge sheet.” 



140 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1956 [Part H— Sec. 3 

His explanation is that he could not signal to the next station as the Morse 
had gone out of order and that he was not at fault. He has produced Ram Legan 
Ram, Station Master who was working at Dehri City. He says that on 27th 
November 1951 he was travelling by the detained train from Dehri City to Indra- 
puri and he tried to contact Indrapuri from Dehri City at about 9-30 p.m. on the 
train-wire line, but the Morse beat at Dehri City from Indrapuri was “too low, 
disturbed and uncommunicable.” He further states that on reaching indrapuri at 
about 12 p.m. he found that the train- wire had gone out of order and the Inter- 
wire beat was too low and uncommunicable. He however states that he restored 
the beat of the train-wire but after 20 minutes when he was still on the railway 
station talking with B. S. Ojha, the train-wire again went out of order. This is 
his examination in Chief (A.W.6/1) which he brought written from hiB house. 
He however himself belied this statement when cross-examined. In cross examina- 
tion he stated that he had to travel by the same train which was detained and 
that on reaching Indrapuri he checked the battery and there was no defect in it 
and that he tightened all the screws with his hand and the train-wire became 
all right. He also stated that the inter-wire was working but the sound was very 
low and uncommunicable. He further stated that when tne train-wire became out 
of order again after 20 minutes of his setting right, he was not present there and 
that he had gone to his quarters. He further stated that on the next morning he 
learnt that it had gone out of order. The statement of B. S. Ojha is that it went 
out of order again in the presence of Shri Ram Legan Ram, Station Master, who 
had set it right by tightening the screws. Shri Ram Legan Ram also stated in his 
written statement A.W.6/1 that he was at the station when the train-wire again 
went out of order. This statement of his, is belied by his own cross-examination. 
Such a witness cannot be relied upon. He also did not state before the Enquiry 
Committee (Exhibit 18) that the inter-wire was not working. It appears to be an 
improvement upon the previous statement. I have carefully gone into the evidence 
produced by B. S. Ojha and I find that the case is proved against him. There is a 
report by the Telegraph Department marked Exhibit 311, dated 29th November 
1961. I may point out that the working of the Telegraph Section on this railway 
line is in the hands of the Government and is not under control of the manage- 
ment. So whenever there is a defect in working, a report is made to the Posts & 
Telegraphs Department. In the present case, when the report was made, one Iswar 
Dayal was deputed to look after the defect and he made the report marked 
Exhibit 312 saying that he found the train- wire (both sides) working all right and 
found one insulator of the train-wire cracked which was changed by him. He 
also reported that he did not find any other defect. There is a further report by 
the Engineering Supervisor marked Exhibit 311 in which he refers to what 
Jshwar Dayal told him and has reported that Ishwar Dayal found both the train- 
wires were working properly. One insulator was found slightly cracked on the 
terminal but it was not likely to cause interruption specially on both sides. He 
further reported that the beats on the inter-wire were found to be low but the line 
was workable, and both Dalmianagar and Rohtas answered on the wire on calling. 
These are the reports from the Department of the Government and I see no reason 
to disbelieye them. This clearly establishes that Sri B. S. Ojha was responsible 
for the delaying of the train on both sides. The inter-wire was working all right 
and he could contact Tilothu Bazar and also Dalmianagar on the inter-wire, if he 
was on duty. There was also no defect in the train-wire. The case against him is 
proved and it is not a ease of victimisation. 

Proper enquiry was conducted against B, S. Ojha in which he participated and 
countersigned all the statements of witnesses examined in his presence. His 
excuse that he was not shown the papers at a later stage and was handicapped in 

his defence is not correct. The management has given him a proper chance to 

defend himself and has taken a reasonable view of the case and I see no reason 
to interfere. His dismissal will stand. 

28. There is also evidence of Shri Basawan Singh examined at A.W.5 who 
states that when a compromise regarding a reference took place before Shri 
Campbell-Puri, Chairman, Central Government Industrial Tribunal, he remarked 
that the case of B. S. Ojha should also be compromised. He further states that 
Shri Gulati, Manager of the company said that he would settle this matter after 
going back to Dalmianagar, The witness goes on to say that he met Shri Gulati 
three t im es and Shri Gulati said he will reinstate B. 5. Ojha but he must have 

the consent of Shri Bishnoi. He further goes on to say that when he saw Shri 

Bishnol he said that B. S. Ojha will be reinstated after 10 or 20 days. He was 
however informed by Ojha that the manager was prepared to reinstate him only 
if he admitted his guilt in the criminal case, Ojha was not willing to admit the 
guilt and so the witness says that he asked him to place his case before the 
Tribunal. In cross-examination Shri Basawan Singh stated that he did not know 
what were the exact charges against B. S. Ojha. He also stated that he did not 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1956 14 I 


know whether there were any conciliation proceedings regarding B. S. Ojha. He 
also could hot say whether the union had filed an appeal before the Regional 
Labour Commissioner against the decision of the management regarding B. S. 
Ojha. He also did not know what were the orders passed by the Regional Labour 
Commissioner, This shows that he only took a casual interest and was not conver- 
sant with the full facts of the case. A perusal of Exhibit 74 wiU show that the 
matter went up to Regional Labour Commissioner and that the Conciliation Officer 
reported that the management was justified in the action taken by them against 
B. S. Ojha. There is also on record the letter, dated 15th December 1952 marked 
A.W.2/13 which 'evidently was written after the talk which Shri Basawan Singh 
had with the management. In this letter Shri B. S. Ojha does not say that any 
settlement had been arrived at or that it was promised to reinstate him but he 
simply says that the manager had offered to settle amicably outside court. So it 
appears that there was an attempt to settle the matter privately which ultimately 
failed, and therefore the matter has been referred to this Tribunal. The case 
against B. S. Ojha is proved and It is not a case of victimisation. So I do not 
interfere with his dismissal. 

29. Jagdish — Pointsman . — The charge sheet issued against him is marked 
Exhibit 349 and the management’s comments are marked Exhibit 351. I have 
carefully gone through the matter and find that there is no direct evidence or 
reliable circumstantial evidence against him. It is true that some body stole iron 
plates from Dalmianagar and while unloading the plates from the running train 
near Ramdehri-on-Sone village, one plate inadvertantly fell on the railway line 
and caused the derailment, ft may be pointed out that Jagdish, pointsman, was 
neither found in the train at the time of the accident nor near about the place 
of accident. He was also not found removing the plates or in possession of the 
plates. The mere fact that he was found travelling in the brake van with the 
guard by the ill-fated train, on the same night after his duty hours between Dal- 
mianagar and Dehri City only casts a suspicion and is not sufficient to warant his 
dismissal. His relations with the management are strained and the management 
has lost confidence in him. There is hardly any chance of their pulling together, 
so I do not reinstate him but grant him compensation at the scale granted to J. N. 
Ojha. 

30. I pass my award according to the findings given above. 

(Sd.) P. S. Binbha, Chairman, 

Central Government’s Industrial Tribunal, 
The 31st December, 1985. Dhanbad. 


[No. LR.3(72)/54.] 
P. D. GAIHA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 24th January 1956 

S.R.O. 249. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employers 
and the majority of employees in relation to each of the three factories mentioned 
hereunder, namely, 

(1) The Canara Tyre and Rubber Works Ltd., Mangalore, 

(2) The P. V. Motor Service Ltd., Mangalore-3, and 

(3) The Canara Public Conveyance Co. Ltd., Mangalore-3, 

have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 
(XIX of 1952), should be made applicable to the said factories; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1952), the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the said factories. 

[No. PF.57 (9)/55.] 

S.R.O. 250. — In pursuance of paragraph 3 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund 
Scheme published with the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour, No. PF.15(5)/48, dated the 11th December, 1948, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby nominates Shri R. N. Pande, Commissioner of Labour, Bihar, Patna, 



142 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1056 [Part IT— Sec. 3 


to the Board of Trustees and makes the following amendment in the Notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S.R.O. 2227, dated the 
6th October, 1955, namely: — 

In the said Notification, for the entry “(5) Shri B. P. Singh, I.A.S., Commis- 
sioner of Labour, Bihar, Patna”, the entry “(5) Shri R. N. Panae, Commissioner 
of Labour, Bihar, Patna” shall be substituted. 

[No. PF.4 (14) /54/Amend.3/50.] 


New Delhi , the 25 th January 1956 

S.R.O. 251. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Sec- 
tion 13 of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1952), the Central 
Government hereby appoin s Shri D. L. Desai, a Superintendent in the office of 
the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Bombay, to be an Inspector for the 
State of Bombay for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme made there- 
under, in relation to factories wi hin that State engaged in a controlled Industry 
or in an industry connected with a mine or an oil field. 

[No. PF. 31(162)/55.] 


New Delhi, the 30 th January 1966 

S.R.O. 262. — The Government of Uttar Pradesh, being one of the State 
Governments specified by the Central Government for the purposes of paragraph 
3(1) (c) of the Employees’ Provident Funds Scheme, 1952, and having nomi- 
nated Shri Radha Kant, I.A.S., Secretary to the Government of Uttar Pradesh, 
Labour Department, Lucknow, to the Board of Trustees constituted under the 
said Scheme, in the vacancy caused by the resignation of Shri K. N. Singh, 
I.A.S., the following amendment is made in the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour, No. S.R.O. 1861, dated the 31st October 
1952, relating to the constitution of that Board, namely 

In the said notification, for the entry "8. Shri K. N. Singh, I.A.S., Secre- 
tary to the Government of Uttar Pradesh, Labour Department, Lucknow”, the 
entry “8. Shri Radha Kant, I.A.S., Secretary to the Government of Uttar 
Pradesh, Labour Department, Lucknow” shall be substituted. 


[No. PF.33(I3)/56.] 
R. C. 8AKSENA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 27 th January 1956 

S.R.O. 253/CDWS/Am.(l>/56 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-sec ion (1) of section 4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) 
Act, 1948 (IX of 1948) the Central Government hereby directs that the following 
amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour No. S, R. O. 2069, dated the 5th August, 1954, as amended by 
S.R.O. No. 1707, dated the 281h July, 1955, the same having been previously pub- 
lished as required by the said sub-section. 

Amendment 

In the said notification, for the words, figures and letters “the 31st January 
1956”, the words, figures and letters “the 31st July, 1956” shall be substituted. 

[No. F. Fac. 74(68) /58.] 
K. N. NAMBIAE, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 28 th January 1956 

S.R.O. 254. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Mica Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1946 (XXII of 1940) read with sub-rule (1) of rule 3 
of the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Rules, 1948, the Central Govern- 
ment has, with effect from the 18th August, 1955, appointed Shri R. N. Pande, 
Commissioner of Labour, Bihar, as a member of the Advisory Committee for 




Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 4, 1950 143 


the State of Bihar vice Shri B. P. Singh and directs that the following amend- 
ment shall be deemed to have been made with effect from that date in the noti- 
fication of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S.R.O. 2575. 
dated the 3rd August, 1954, namely:— 

In the said notification — 

For the entry (3) the following shall be substituted : 

"(3) Shri R. N. Pande, Commissioner of Labour, Bihar”. 

[No. M.II.23(1)50.1 
P. D. COMMAR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi-2, the 31st January 1956 

S.R.O. 256. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (3) of rule 9 of 
the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1951, read with sub-rule (3) of rule 10 
of the said Rules, the Central Government hereby re-appoints after consultation 
with the Central Board of Film Censors Shrimati S, Maniubhashini as a member 
of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with effect from the 4th 
February, 1956. 

[NO. 14/3/55-FC,] 

S.R.O. 256. — It is hereby notified for general information that the name of 
Shrimati S. Maniubhashini, a member of the first Advisory Panel of the Central 
Board of Film Censors at Madras, having been determined by lot under the 
proviso to sub-rule (1) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1951, 
the said member shall retire with effect from the 4th February, 1960. 

[No. 14/5/53-FC.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 31st January 1960 
S.R.O. 257. — The Central Government hereby: — 

(a) directs, in pursuance of the provisions of the CVdpr of the Government 

of India in the Ministrv of Information anti Broadcasting, No. S.R.O. 
3805, dated the 26th December. 1055. that the Advisory Panel of the 
Central Board of Film Censors at Madcqs shall consist of 27 members 
with effect from the 4th February, 1956. 

(b) appoints, after consultation with the said Board the following persons 

as members of the Advisory Panel at Madras with effect from the 
4th February, 1950: — 

1. Dr. Venkatesh Narayan Sharma; 

2. Shrimati Nazir Husain; 

3. Shri S. Shankar Raju Naidu; 

4. Shri K. Satakopan; 

5. Lt.-Col. G. S. Gill; Hnd 

6. Dr. U. Krishna Rau. 


[No. 14/5/55-FC.l 
D. KRISHNA AYYAR, Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER. GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1960 




