Care H . 9. 1721 


TINIO NA en 


पयापन 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित . 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITE 


- - --- - 


- 


po 19] 


af faradt, straip , Af 8, 1965, ánia 18 1887 


- 


-- - - - -- - 
इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may be Aled 

as a separate compllation 

- - - 
नोटिस 

NOTICE 
ofta fra TTT ATTTTTT T3197 27 999 , 1965 # $7fif ya fA TUI 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extrayrdinary were published upto the 27th April, 
1965 


Issue 

No. 


Subject 


82. $ .O . 1320 , dated 22nd Ministry of Infor - Approval of films specified therein . 
April, 1965 . 

mation and Broad 

casting. 
83. S . O . 1321," Tdated 22nd Central Board of Corrigenda to S . O . 1107 dated 1st 
April, 1965. 

Direct Taxes. 

April, 1965. 1 
84 . S . O . 1322 , dated 22nd Election Commis - List of Conteating Candidates for the 
April , 1965. 

sion , India . 

Bye election to the House of tho 
People from the Mahbubabed Consti 

tuency . 
85 . 9 . O . 1323 , dated 24th Ministry of Steel Authorising that any person may 
April, 1965. 

and Mines . 

acquire Tin bars etc . 
86 . S . O . 1324 , dated 26th Ministry of Com - Recommendations of the Export 
April , 1965. 

Inspection Council . 
S . O . 1325 , dated 26th Do. 

The Export of P . V . C . Leather Cloth 
April, 1965. 

( Inspection ) Rules , 1965. ! 
S .O . 1326 , dated 26th Do. Recognising the Plastics and Lino . 
April , 1965. 

the agency for inspection of P . V . C . 

Leather Cloth , prior to export. 
87. - S . O . 1327, dated 26th Ministry of Indus - Directing that Order No . S . O . 7867 
April, 1965. 

try and Supply . dated 15th May 1958 shall continue 

to have effect for further two years. 


merce . 


( 1599 ) 


1600 


- 


GA , 


A : MAY 8, 


.. /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


PART II – 



- - 


- 


Issue 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Subject, 


No. 


mcrcc , 


88 . S .O . 1422 , dated 27th Ministry of Com - Recommendations of the Export Ins 
April, 1965. 

pection Council, 
S . O . 1423, dated 27th Do. 

Recommendations of the Export Ins 
April , 1965. 

pection Council, 
S . O . 1424 , dated 27th Do. 

The Export of Jute Hessian and Jute 
April, 1965. 

Sacking ( Inspection ) Amendment 
Rules , 1965, 


ऊपर लिखे असाधारण राजपत्रों की प्रतियां प्रकाशन प्रबन्धक, सिविल लाइन्स , दिल्ली के नाम 
मांगपत्र भजन पर भेज दी जाएंगी । मांगपत्र प्रबन्धक के पास इन राजपत्रों के जारी होने की तारीख से 
10 AEG * Hat Ta utal afeti 

Coples of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes, 


HTT II S - Juror ( ii ) 

PART II — Section 3 – Sub -section ( ii ) 
( रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासन को छोड़कर) 
केन्द्रीय प्राधिकारियों द्वारा जारी किए गए विधिक आदेश और अधिसूचनाएं । 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern . 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Unlon Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 27th April, 1965 . 
S . O . 1430 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
13A of the Representation of the People Act , 1950 ( 43 of 1950 ) , the Election Com 
mission , in consultation with the Administration of Goa , Daman and Diu hereby 
nominates Shri S . Balakrishnan as the Chief Electoral Officer for Union Territory 
of Goa , Daman and Diu with effect from the date hę takes over charge and until 
further orders vice Shri A . F . Couto . 

[ No. 154 / 21 / 65 . ] 


S . O . 1431 - In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the order pronounced on the 2nd 
April, 1965 by the Election Tribunal, Farrukhabad . 

IN THE ELECTION TRIBUNAL AT FARRUKHABAD . 
PRESENT : 
Sri Sarup Kishan Kaul. --Member, 

( District Judge , Farrukhabad ) 

ELECTION PETITION No. 5 OF 1963 . 
Sri Nitya Nand . - Petitioner. 

Versus 
1 . Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia , 2 . Dr. B . V . Keskar, 3 . Sri Bharat Singh Rathor, 

4 . Sri Chhedi Lal, 5 . Sri Shambliu Nath Dixit, and 6 . Sri Raj Narain 
Dube. — Respondents. 


SEG $ (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 / VAISAKHA 18, 1887 1601 
= - - = = - - 

- 

- - 

JUDGEMENT 
This clection petition was presented by Sri Nitya Nand Chcla Balramdas to Sri 
. A . N , Şen , Under Secretary, Election Commission , India , on 5th July , 1903, princi 
pally against respondent No. 1 namely Dr. Ram Manoliar Lohia with a prayer that 
the election of Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia respondent No. 1 be declared null and 
void and be set aside and that he be dis - qualified to seek election in future . Res 
pondents Nos. 2 to 6 were also impleaded as they had also filed nomination seeking 
election for Farrukhabad Loksabha Parliamentary Constitucncy . The Election 
Commission had constituted this Court as Tribunal to decide the petition and after 
giving notices of hearing to the respondents had transferred the election petition 
to me for disposal. 


It is common ground between the purtics that in the last general election of 
1962 Pl. Moo ] Chand Dubey was returned from this Constituency . Pt. Mool Chand 
Dubey unfortunately expired and as such a vacancy was caused in this Constituen 
cy of Farrukhabad . Thereafter the Election Commission decided to hold election 
for Farrukhabad Loksabha Parliamentary constituency and in connection with that 
respondents Nos, 1 to 6 had filed their nominations. 

The allegations of the petitioner are that he is an elector of Farrukhabad Parlia 
mentary Constituency and his name was duly entered in the elector roll of Fartu 
khabad Legislative Assembly constitucncy No . 342 part 57 at serial No . 72 . He 
was, thus cntitled to Ale the present election petition . Later on , respondents Nos . 5 
and 6 withdrew their nominations. Thereafter contest of the aforesaid clection 
continued between respondent Nos. 1 to 4 alone. The polling for the Farrukhabad 
Loksabha Parliamentary constituency took place on 19th May , 1963 and the count 
ing of votes was done on 21st May , 1963. The result of the counting was as given 
below : 

1,07 ,816 
2 . Dr. Keskar 

50,528 
3. Sri Bharat Singh Rathore 

19,395 
4 . Sri Chhedi Lal 

5 , 422 
5 . Votes rejected 

4, 340 
TOTAL 

1,87,501 


The Returning Officer, thcreupon , declared Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia respon 
dent No. 1 as duly elected to this Election . The election of Dr. Ram Manohar 
Lohia , according to the petitioner , was neither fair nor free election . It was vold 
and was llable to be set aside on the grounds namely ( 1 ) He had committed the 
following corrupt practices. ( A ) Respondent No. 1, his agents and workers pub 
lished statements of facts which were false to their knowledge and which they 
themselves did not believe to be true in relation to personal character and con 
ducts of respondents Nos. 2 and 3 relating to their candidature. This amounted 
to corrupt practices within the definition of section 123 ( 4 ) of the representation 
of the People s Act . The instances of the corrupt practices werd given und 
quoted in paragraphs Nos, A ( a ) ( i ) to (vii ) . It was then alleged that respondent 
NO, 1 and with his consent his workers , election agents , agents , workers and 
supporters spent about 10 lac s of rupees over the election of respondent No. 1 
The said cxpenses had not been shown in tlie Election expenses of respondent 
No. 1, On the other hand, a very small amount which was incorrect and false 
has been shown as expenses in the election expenditure and thereby respondent. 
No . i had committed corrupt practice as defined in section 123 ( 6 ) of the Repre 
sentation of People s Act . The facts constituting this corrupt practice were 
detailed in paragraphs Nos . A ( a ) (vili ) to ( h ) . 

It was then alleged that respondent No. 1 and with his consent his agents , 
workers and supporters publicly declared and held out promises that if no vote was 
cast for the Congress candidate at any polling station the Pradhan of Gaon 
Samaj of the said polling station would get Rs, 101. It was further proidised 
that suitable memorial will be crected at the said place. At the polling siation 
of Kanjhiana not a single vote was cust for the Congress and therefore , a sum 
of Rs. 101 was given by respondent No , 1 and his agent Sri Arjun Singh Bliadaurja 
to Pradhan Gaon Samaj Kanjhiana in performance of the promise made by and 
on behalf of respondent No. 1. The clectors who wanted to vote for respondent 
No. 2 were intimidated by the workers , supporters , and agents of respondent No. 1 
with his consent as well as by Pradhan of Kanjhiana from casting their votes 
for Congress . The details of instances were given in Schedule " VII" . 


2 . G . , OF . A : MAY 8 , . . /VAISAKHA 18, [PART II 

= 

- - - - -- 
It was then alleged that respondent No . 1 and with his consent his election 
agents , agents, workers and supporters made gifts of calendars ( Annexure K ) 
to the voters with the object of indirectly inducing them to vote for respondent 
No . 1 . Names of some of the voters were mentioned in Schedule No, XV . On 
account of this illegal gratification the aforesaid voters voted for respondent No . 1 . 
This furthered the election prospects of respondent No. 1 and prejudicially affected 
the election of respondents Nos, 2 to 4 . It was further pleaded that respondent 
engaged a large number of lady workers for furthering his election prospects . 
The names of those lady workers were given in Schedule VIII, Respondent No. 1 
and with his consent his election agents , the aforesaid lady workers and other 
supporters appealed to the religious symbol of Banyan tree which was also the 
symbol of respondent No. 1 in the said election and thereby they exercisert undue 
influence upon the female voters to believe that the symbol of respondent No. 1 
represented in Hinduism the husband of the married lady . It was openly de 
clared by respondent No . 1 and with his consent his workers and supporters, 
agents and election agents that the married Hindu ladies should vote for Banyan 
tree failing which they would be ruined and grief and spiritual censor would 
follow . The lady voters were also told that their husbands would die and thcir 
family life would be ruined if they did not vote for respondent No . 1 who had the 
Symbol of Banyan tree. By this false propaganda and appeal to religious symbol, 
respondent No. 1 furthered the prospects of his election and prejudiciaily affected 
the election of other candidates. 

It was further alleged that respondent No. 1 was Agrawal Vaish by caste . 
The Vaish community of Farrukhabad district weilded abnormal influence on 
account of their wealth and position and also being poineers in trade and indus 
try . The Vaish of other districts and Provinces also came to the help of respon 
dent No. 1 . Several meetings were held by respondent No. 1 of the electors of 
Vais ) , community and they were systematically appealed to vote for him un 
the grounds of caste and refrain from casting vote for member of other communi 
ty . This method furthered the prospects of the election of respondent No, I and 
prejudicially affected the election of other candidates. The details of these ineet 
ings were given in Schedule IX . 

It was also alleged that the respondent No. 1 and his election agents , workers 
and supporters made promises to the Government servants that their pay and 
allowances would be increased if he was elected to the Parliament. Several 
Government scrvants canvasscd for respondent No. 1 which they were not legally 
entitled to do . The canvassing of Government servants was done with the con 
sent of respondent No. 1 and with the consent of his election agent Sri Raj Narain 
Singh , The election of respondent No. 1 was also legally bad on the grounds 
mentioned in Schedule X 

It was further alleged that respondent No . 1 engaged a number of Sarpanchas 
of the Nayay Panchayat to work as his election agents . The Sarpanchas engaged 
by respondent No. 1 and with his consent by his clection agents , agents , supporters 
and workers exercised undue influence of his office upon the voters to cast vote for 
respondent No. 1. On this ground as well the election of respondent No, I was 
legally bad . The details of these instances relating to this fact were given in 
Schedule XVIII. 

It was further pleaded that respondent No. 1, his election agents , and co 
workers imported about 5 or 6 thousands workers from other districts and states 
who were there -after posted over different polling stations. Ample funds were 
made available to the aforesaid workers . The workers with The help of this 
money got control over the local influential people . The said workers and sup 
porters of respondent No. 1 with the consent of respondent No. 1 brought undue 
influence upon the voters to vote for respondent No. 1 and it was under this 
undue influence that votes for respondent No. 1 were cast . The details of these 
facts were given in Schedule XX . 


It was further alleged that in the last general election of Parliament, the all 
India Jansangh party put up Pt. Ram Parsad Sharma as a candidate for election 
to parliament. The Jansangh party was contemplating to put up one out of 
Sarvsri Ram Parşad Sharma, Kashmir Singh , Bans Gopal, Girish Chand Tewari 
and Lalji as their candidate for the election under reference . Respondent No. 1 
thereupon made an offer to the Jansangh party not to put up any of the aforc 
said candidates and in consideration of this withdrawal, the all India Socialist 
party would not put up its candidate against Sri Deen Dayal Upadhya , a candi 
date for Jansangh from Jaunpur constituency . This corrupt practice , thereupon , 
furthered the election of respondent No . 1 and thereby prejudicially affected the 
election of the remaining candidates . The details constituting this corrupt prac 
tice were mentioned in Schedule XI in appendix H . 


SEC, 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18, 1887 


1603 


It was then alleged that respondent No. 1 and with his consent his agents and 
workers hired and procured a large number of bullock - carts , Ekkas , tongas and 
rickshaws for the conveyance of the electors to and from the polling stations 
to their home. This was illegal and was done for the furtherance of the election 
of respondent No . 1 and to prejudicially affect the election of other candidates. 
The details of this fact were noted in Schedule No. XIII, 

It was then alleged that in view of the irregularities and non - compliance of 
the Act and rules committed at the election quoted in paragraphs Nos. 6 - B - III 
the result of the election was materially affected . It was then alleged that res 
pondent No. 1 and with his consent his election agents , supporters as well as 
workers held several meetings of the Muslim community and appealed to them 
on the ground of Muslim religion . They also appealed that if they wanted their 
co - religionist , muslims of Kashmir to be freed from the burden and if they 
wanted independent Kashmir and release of Sheikh Abdulla , they should vote 
for respondent No. 1. They appealed to the Muslim community on the ground 
of religion which furthered the election prospects of respondent No. 1 and pre 
judicially affected the election of other candidates . The then Chief Minister 
of Kashmir Bakhshi Gulam Mohammad came to this district. He had held a 
meeting at Farrukhabad and appealed to the voters to vote for respondent No. 2 . 
Respondent No. 1 finding that the voters and specially Muslim voters had become 
favourable to respondent No . 2 got notice given in Appendix J published and 
appealed to the religious susceptibilities of Muslims and asked them to vote for 
respondent No , 1 . The notices, pamphlets and meetings prejudicially affected 
the election prospects of respondent No . 2 and respondent No. 3 . The details 
of these things were given in Schedule XIV . 

It was then alleged that a public meeting by the Congress party , the details 
of which were given in Schedule XVI was called to appeal to the voters to vote 
for the Congress. In the said meeting the agents, workers and supporters of 
respondent No. 1 with his consent excited the public present in the meeting to 
act in a disorderly manner for the purposes of preventing the transaction of 
the business for which the meeting was called . This action amounted to corrupt 
practice within the meaning of section 100 ( D ) ( IV ). 

It was then alleged that every candidate who sought election was bound to 
send a copy of the notice, posters, pamphlets and leaflets printed and published 
for the election bound by him or with his consent by his worker and agents to 
the Election Officer and the District Magistrate of the district. Respondent No. 1 
committed a breach of this rule and hud thus committed a corrupt practice 
within the meaning of section 100 ( i) ( D ) ( IV ) of the Representation of People s 
Act , 1951. 

It was also alleged that respondent No. 1 did not maintain an account as 
required under section 77 of the Representation of People s Act. Hence the 
return of election expenditure filed by him was invalid and not the true copy of 
the account. It was also alleged that the return was not lodged in legal and 
proper form . On these grounds the petitioner sought the election of respondent 
No . 1 to be declared null and void and further sought the relief that respondent 
No. 1 be disqualified to seek election in future. He also claimed costs of the 
petition 

Respondents Nos , 2 to 6 did not contest the petition , in spite of sufficient 
service . They also did not Alle any written statement. The petition was contested 
by respondent No . 1. The pleas raised in defence were that the petitioner was 
not the elector from Farrukhabad Parliamentary Constitucncy . It was also 
denied that the name of the petitioner was entered in the electoral roll relating 
to Farrukhabad Legislative Assembly constituency at serial No. 72 or al any 
other place. It was alleged that the electoral roll filed by the petitioner along 
with the petition did not relate to him and as such the petitioner was not entitled 
to file the petition . It was then alleged that there was no person of the name 
Nityanand Chela Balramdas . Even the petitioner had not dared to sign the 
petition as Nitya Nand Chela Balramdas . So far as the respondent No. 1 knew 
the name of the petitioner was Niranjan Dass Chela Balramdas and not Nitya 
Nand Chela Balramdas . The use of word Nitya Nand alias Niranjan Dass was 
erroneous and the petitioner was not an elector within the meaning of section 
81 of the Representation of People s Act and as such he was not entitled to 
maintain the petition . On this ground alone the petition was liable to be rejected . 


It was further alleged that the petition was not properly presented . It had to 
be presented to the Secretary , Election Commission India . It was , however, 
presented to onę Sri A . N . Sen , Under Secretary, Election Commission India . It 


104 THE ARTIKE or moun:max1.sarvasana u nar _ pham na 


1604 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


PART II 


was denied that Sri A . N . Sen was personally authorized to receive the election 
petitions by the Election Commission . The result of the election as noted in 
paragraph No. 3 of the petition was admitted . It was alleged that the respondent 
No , I was not a Congress candidate but was a candidate of the Socialist Party . 
Rest of the contents of paragraph No . 4 were not admitted . The contents of 
paragraph No . 5 of the petition were admitted . The contents of paragraph No. 6 
of the petition along with their clauses and sub - clauses were denied . It was 
further alleged that the contents of para . No. 6 - A of the petition were completely 
false . Respondent No . 1 denied having committed any corrupt practices. The 
contents of paragraph No. 6 - A ( a ) together with all its clauses and sub - clauses 
were denied to be correct but were alleged to be false . Respondant No . 1 denied 
that he , or his election agents, agents and workers got published any statement 
in Chaukhamba in relation to personal character and conduct of respondents 
Nos . 2 and 3 in relation to their candidature . It was also denied that any state 
ments were published by the respondent No. 1 his election agents , agents, workers 
and supporters in order to prejudicially affect the prospects of the election of 
respondents Nos , 2 & 3. It was denied that respondent No. 1 was guilty of any 
corrupt practices defined in section 123 ( 4 ) of the Representation of People s Act . 
The contents of paragraph No. 6 - A ( a ) ( i ) along with Schedule I of the petition 
were alleged to be false , and denied . Respondent No. 1 admitted to be one of 
the founders of the Socialist party of India . It was denied that he or his election 
agents or any of his workers , agents etc , were connected with the publication 
of newspaper Chaukhamba on 4th May 1963 or on any other date . As far as 
he knew each news was published and printed on papers by the editor at Indore , 
who were not even agents , workers or supporters of the respondent No . 1. It 
was denied that he or his election agents , workers or supporters with his consent 
or otherwise knew the items mentioned in this paragraph and published in 
Chaukhamba on 4th May 1963 or on any other date . Respondent No. 1 denied 
that he or his election agents , workers and supporters with his consent or other 
wise circulated widely or distributed at any place papers on the dates mentioned 
in Schedule I or on any other date . It was denied that Sri Raj Narain Singh 
or any other person mentioned in Schedule I distributed those papers on those 
dates or on any other date . It was alleged that the allegations about corrupt 
practices did not amount to corrupt practices as metnioned in section 123 ( 4 ) of 
the said Act. It was alleged that in any case the contents of this paragraph 
were vague and were liable to be stryck oft under Order 6 rule 18 C . P . C . The 
contents of paragraph No. 6 - A ( il ) were alleged to be wrong . It was denied that 
respondent No. 1, his agents , election agents workers or supporters with his 
consent or otherwise had made a statement in general public or in public meet 
ing that respondent No. 3 had accepted Rs. 25000 / - from respondent No . 2 for 
getting respondent No. 1 defeated and respondent No. 2 clected at the election , 
It was then alleged that this paragraph also was vague and was also liable to be 
struck off under order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . It was denied that he or any of the 
persons mentioned in Schedule I ever made a statement that respondent No. 2 
had paid a sum of Rs. 25000 / - to rospondent No. 3 . It was further denied that 
such statement was made by him or his agents, workers and supporters in order 
to defame respondents Nos. 2 and 3 in the opinion the voters. It was denied 
that any such statement had affected adversely the election of respondents Nos 
2 and 3 . The consents of paragraph No. 6 - A ( a ) ( iii) were alleged to be false and 
denied . It was alleged that so far as he knew respondent No. B had fever been 
Secretary of the Farrukhabad Socialist Party . It was denied that respondent 
No. 6 was taken in Socialist Party by respondent No. 1 before the election . It 
was also denied that respondent No. 6 worked for respondent No. 1 . It was 
alleged that respondent No. 6 was very ill through out the period of election 
It was admitted that respondent No. 6 was editor of paper Chattan . It was 
denied that respondent No . 1 or any one on his behalf had anything to do with 
publication of the aforesaid paper. It was denied that the aforesaid paper wa: 
monopolized by respondent No. 1 . It was denied that any payments were made 
to respondent No. 6 . It was admitted that some of the leaflets were publishec 
in the press belonging to respondent No. 6 for which payment was made. I 
was denied that the said paper had become an important papr for the electior 
of respondent No . 1 or the Socialist Party . It was also denied that responden 
No. 6 had close relations with Sri Raj Narain Singh . As far as he knew papei 
"Chattan was in the list of the U . P . Govt. and many advertisements used to be 
sent to this paper for publication by the various departments of the Uttar Pra 
desh Govt. and U . P . Govt . was under the control of Congress party . Responden 
No. 2 was also a candidate of the Congress party . This paper was published to 
perpetuate the memory of Pt. Mool Chand Dubey, who was an ex - Congress M . P 
from this constituency . It was denied that any news were got published ir 
papor Chattan dated 1st April 1903 , 15th April 1963 and 13th May 1983 by 
Tespondent No . 1 or with his consent by his agents, workers or supporters . I 


SEO, 8 ( 11) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 1605 

- - 

= 
was also dened that the said newspaper dated 13th May 1963 or of any viher 
date was distributed by his supporters , agents or workers or by respondent No. 1 
or any other persons mentioned in Schedule I - A . It was denied that the news 
items published in sald newspaper on 1st April 1963, 16th April 1903 and 13th 
May 1963 were false or that these news in any way prejudiced the election of 
respondents No. 2 and 3 . It was denied that the persons mentioned in Schedule 
I - A except Sri Raj Narain Singh were agents of respondent No. 1. It was then 
alleged that the contents of this para and schedule I - A were vague and lacked 
in particulars and as such this paragraph was liable to be struck under Order 6 
rule 16 C . P . C . It was then alleged that in any case the allegations contained in 
this paragraph did not make out a case for setting aside the election under 
section 100 of the said Act. The contents of paragraph 6 - A (IV ) of the petition 
were alleged to be wrong and were denied. It was denied that Sri Arjun Singh 
Bhadoria got published the leaflet underneath Dosto hoshiar raho . It was alleged 
that it was meant merely to criticize the Congress and Praja Socialist Party . The 
said leaflets did not contain anything which could come under the definition corrupt 
practice within the meaning of section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act. Respondent No. 1 
denied having distributed the leaflets himself or through the persons mentioned 
in schedule II of the petition . It was denied that it was distributed with his 
consent. It was then alleged that the contents of this paragraph together with 
Schedule II were vague and lacked in particulars and as such liable to be struck 
oft under order 6 rule 16 Ç . P . C . The contents of paragraph 6 - A ( a ) ( V ) were 
alleged to be wrong and denied . It was denied that Sarysri Madhulimay, Raj 
Nerain Singh , Arjun Singh Bhadoria and Ram Sewak Yaday were members of 
tho U . P . Legislative assembly . It was denied that the aforesaid persons as 
mentioned in Schedules 3 and 4 gave out or published a statement that Sri 
Bharat Singh Rathore had been paid Rs. 25000 / - by the Congress in order to stand 
him as a candidate in the election . It was then alleged that this paragraph along 
with contents of Schedules 3 and 4 were vague and lacked in particulars and as 
fluch were liable to be struck off under order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . It was further 
alleged that in any case no ground for setting aside the election under section 
100 of the Act was made out from the allegations contained in this para and 
this plea was liable to be ignored . 


The contents of para 6 - A ( a ) ( vi ) were alleged to be wrong. It was denied 
that the two pamphlets mentioned in Annexure E were published by the agents , 
workers and supporters of respondent No. 1 or that these were published with 
his consent. It was also alleged that the contents of these pamphlets did not 
come within the definition of corrupt practice as defined under section 123 ( 4 ) of 
the Act . It was also pleaded that the contents of this para were vague and lacking 
in particulars and as such werc liable to be struck oſl under order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . 
It was also alleged that the allegations of this para did not and could not afford a 
ground for setting aside the election under section 100 of the aforesaid Act. 

The contents of para GA ( a ) ( vii ) were denied . It was denied that the notices 
mentioned in annexure F and G were printed and published by respondent 
No. 1 or his election agent, agents , workers and supporters. It was also alleged 
that the contents of these two annexures did not constitute a corrupt practice , 
It was denied that the persons named in the Schedule disributed the said notices 
on the dates and places mentioned therein or on any other dates and places. 
It was denied that he or his clcction agents distributed the aforesaid notices or 
consented to the distribution or publication of the same. It was also alleged that 
these allegations being vague and lacking in particulars were liable to be struck 
of under order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . 

The contents of para 6 - A ( a ) ( viii ) together with sub - clauscs were denied . It 
was denied that Rs. 10 lacs were spent in the election . It was then denied that 
a few lecs were received through post office , State Bank , Central Bank , Punjab 
National Bank or other Statc. It was denicd that any such amount was spent 
in the election of respondent No . 1 . It was alleged that the return of expendi 
ture filed by him was correct. It was denied that he had shown incorrect or 
false account of his clection expenses . It was further pleaded ihat these allega 
tions being vague he could not be held guilty of any corrupt practice on this 
ground . 

The contents of para 6 - A ( a ) ( viii ) ( a ) were denied and said to be wrong . It 
was alleged that this paragraph being vague and lacking in particulars was 
liable to be struck off under order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . It was denied that he or the 
persons mentioned in Schedule XVII distributed the annexure G , C , E , K , L , as 
alleged . It was denied that he or his workers or agents with his consent had 
spent any amount in printing or distribution of the aforesaid leaflets and notices . 
Similarly , the allegations of paragraph 6 - A ( a ) ( viii) ( b ) were denied . It was 


alleged that these particulars were vague and were liable to be struck off under 
Order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . The allegations contained in paragraph No. 6 - A ( a ) ( viii ) 
( c ) were denied . It was denied that expenses to the tune of Rs. 50 ,000 / - at the 
rate of Rs. 100 / - per polling station for the stencelling of the appeal to the voters 
were incurred by the respondent No . 1 . It was alleged that the stencilling on 
the walls was done by the sympathisers of the voters themselves free of expenses 
and he did not spend any amount over the same. 

The contents of paragraph No. 6 - A ( a ) (viii) ( d ) were alleged to be false and 
denied . It was denied that any telephonic connection in the name of Sri Jaswant 
Singh Secretary of Socialist Party was taken by him . It was alleged that the 
Socialist Party of Farrukhabad had telephone itself which was even working 
today . No telephone was taken for the purposes of election by him . No expendi 
ture on this account was incurred by him nor did he authorize any one to incur 
any expenditure on this account. It was denied that any expenses were incurred 
by him or with his consent by his agents , workers or supporters at telephone or 
trunk - call. It was then alleged that these pleas were vague and lacking in 
particulars and as such liable to be struck off under order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . 

The contents of paragraph ( vill ) ( e ) were said to be false and denied . It 
was denied that there was any voucher No. 232. It was denied that any expendi 
ture was concealed with respect to voucher No. 101. It was alleged that the 
return of the election expenditure was correct . 


The contents of paragraph ( viii ) ( ) were denied . It was denied that six 
thousands workers for a month at various polling stations were engaged by res 
pondent No. 1. It was denied that respondent No. 1 concealed the amount of 
3 lacs Spent on this account. It was alleged that the particulars being vague in 
law the paragraph was liable to he struck off under order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . 


The contents of paragraph 6 - A ( a ) (vuli ) ( ) were denied and were said to be 
false . It was alleged that this paragraph being vague and lacking in particulars 
was liable to be struck off under Order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . It was alleged that the 
election expenditure shown by him on this account was perfectly correct and 
nothing had been concealed , 


The contents of paragraph No. 6 - A ( a ) (viii) ( h ) were said to be false and 
denied . It was denied that Rs. 101/ - were given , or any other amount was given , 
to the Pradhan of Gaon Samaj Kanjhiana during the period of election , 


The contents of paragraph No. 6 - A ( a ) ( ix ) of the petition were denied. It 
was denied that on 12th May 1963 or on any date Sri Raj Narain Singh had 
promised to pay a sum of Rs, 101 / - to the Pradhan of Gram Samaj Kanjhiana. 
The election being over on 6th June 1963 , any amount even paid on that date 
was not the item of expenditure . It was denied that the Pradhan of Kanjhiang 
Gram Samaj had intimidated any voter who wanted to vote for respondent No. 1. 
It was denied that any of the workers and agents of the respondents - No. 1 
intimidated any voters anywhere either with his consent or otherwise , It was 
alleged that these particulars being vague, these were liable to be struck of 
under Order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . 

The contents of paragraph No. 6 - A ( a ) ( x ) together with Schedule XV were 
denied . It was denied that he or his election agents or Sarvari Arjun Singh 
Bhadoria , Jaswant Singh and Raj Narain Dube or any one else with the consent 
of respondent No. 1 or otherwise distributed calenders ( Annexures K ) or made 
any gift of them on the dates & places mentioned in Schedule XV or on any 
other date to Sarysri Babu Ram , Banshi, Shahjadey Lal, Shyam Narain and 
Ram Chandra or to any other person or persons. It was denied that he knew 
the persons named in column two of the Schedule XV . It was denied that any 
votes were procured by any payment of illegal gratification . It was alleged 
that in any case giving of calenders did not in any way amount to illegal gratif 
cation . It was alleged that in any case giving of a calender like unnexure K 


The contents of paragraph 6 - A ( a ) (xi) were denied . It was denied that he 
or with his consent his agent, election agents and workers or other person exer: 
cise undue influence over the female voters in the manner as alleged . It wa 
alleged that the names of the lady workers glyen in column 1 of Schedule VII: 
were not the names of his agents , as some of them even did not exist. It wa 
alleged that the allegation being vague and lacking in particulars these were 
liable to be struck off under Order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . 


. 


E 


. . . A : MAY 8 , 1988 / VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


1607 


The contents of paragraph No. 6 - A ( a ) (xii ) were denied . It was denied that 
he or Sri Raj Narain Singh or Sri Arjun Singh Bhadoria organized any meeting 
of the electors of the Vaish Community . It was denied that Vaishs of other 
districts or state had come to help him . It was denicd that he had appealed to 
the Vaish community to vote for him on the ground of caste or community . It 
was also denied that the persons mentioned in Schedule IX were his agents or 
workers. It was denied that they wielded influence amongst the voters . It was 
finally pleaded that the particulars being vague these were liable to be struck 
n ff under Order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . 

The contents of paragraph 6 - A ( a ) ( xiii ) and Schedule X of the petition were 
denied . It was denied that he or his election agents , workers or supporters told 
the Govt. servants that their pay and allowances would be increased if he was 
elected . It was also denied that Shri Banshidhar, Sarvsri Uma Shanker . Kajlash 
Nath , Executive Officer Kanauj and Head Constable and other constables of 
Chauki Muras canvassed for the respondent No. 1 or took any part in his election , 
It was denied that any canvassing was done or favour shown to him by any of 
the Govt . servants . It was alleged that the Govt. servants did not leave any 
stone unturned to defeat him . It was denied that any of the persons mentioned 
in Schedule X worked for him in the election . It was then alleged that the pleas 
being vague and lacking in particulars these were liable to be struck off under 
Order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . 

The allegations of paragraph No. 6 - A ( a ) ( xiv ) were denied . It was denied 
that Shri Lakhan Singh is the Sarpanch of Nayay Panchayat Bhunna. It was 
clenied that Sri Lakhan Singh or Shri Ram Gupta exercised undue influence 
lipon the voters to vote for respondent No. 1 . It was alleged that the Sarpanchas 
of Nayay Panchayat were not Govt. servants and the mere fact that they worked 
as his polling agents did not afford any ground for setting aside the election . It 
was denied that they threatened the voters with injury in case they did not 
vote for him . It was alleged that the allegations contained in this paragraph 
did not afford any ground for setting aside the election under section 100 of the 
said Act. It was pleaded that the contents being vague and lacking in paritculars 
these were liable to be struck off under Order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . 


The contents of paragraph No. 6 - A ( a ) ( xy ) were denied . It is denied that he 
imported 5 or 6 thousand workers from outside or provided ample funds to them 
to influence the local people . It was alleged that the allegations being lacking 
in particulars and being vague these were liable to be struck off under Order 
rule 18 C . P . C . 


The contents of paragraph 6 - A ( a ) (xvi ) and Schedule XI of the petition were 
denied . It was denied that the Jan Sangh was contemplating to put up one of 
Sarvsri Ram Prasad Sharma, Kashmir Singh , Bans Gopal, Grish Chandra and 
Lalji as their candidate in this election . It was denied that he made any offer 
to Jan Sangh not to put up any candidate against him and tliat the Socialist 
Party would not put up any candidate against Sri Din Dayal Upadhya in Jaunpur 
on a promise as alleged in this paragraph . It was allcged that the allegations 
of this paragraph and Schedule XI did not amount to any corrupt practice 
within the ineaning of section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act , 


The allegations of paragraph No. 6 - A ( a ) ( xvil) and Schedule XIII were 
denied . It was denied that any conveyance was ever hired or procured by Shri 
Raj Narain Singh and Sri Arjun Singh Bhadoria or any worker of the respondent 
No. 1 with his consent or otherwise as mentioned in Schedulo XIII of the 
petition . It was alleged that the allegations of this paragraph were vague and 
lacking in particulars. " These were liable to be struck oft under Order 6 rule 
16 C . P . C . 


This contents of paragraph No. 6 - B ( 1 ) were denied . It was derlied that his 
polling camp was placed within 30 yards of the polling station Suthathi. It was 
denied that his workers and supporters with his consent or otherwise exercised 
any undue influence or forcibly removed the voters and made them to vote for 
him . It was denied that any rules were infringed or that any propaganda was 
done on his behalf, at the polling booth . It was alleged that the contents of 
this paragraph being vague and lacking in particulars these were liable to be 
struck off under Order 6 rule 18 C . P . C . 

The contents of paragraph No , 6 ( B ) ( II ) were denied . It was denied that any 
polling station was changed . It was denied that any illegality was committed 
in fixing the camps at the polling station . It was alleged that in any case the 
election was not materially affected . 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


1608 , GA , . . OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 / VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 [PART II 

- - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - 
The contents of paragraph No . 6 ( B ) ( III ) were denied and alleged to be in 
correct. It was denied that he knew whether respondent No. 4 was the President 
of the U . P , Republican Party or not. It was alleged that in Uttar Pradesh 
the Republican Party was not a recognized party by the Election Commission . 
As soon as the mistake was discovered the Election Commission informed res 
pondent No . 4 that he had been allotted another symbol and not elephant. This 
Tact was duly published by the Election authorities. It was denied that res 
pondent No. 4 had no information about the change of the symbol or that he 
was not given an opportunity to choose any other symbol. It was alleged that 
respondent No. 4 was not a serious candidate at all. It was denied that respon 
dent No. 4 had published any posters , pamphlets popularising his symbol. It 
was denied that any voter had gone to vote for the election symbol elephant 
and not finding that symbol there voted for the other candidates or came back 
disappointed . It was alleged that in any case the result of the election was not 
in any way affected by any of the alleged irregularities . 

The contents of paragraph No . 6 - B ( IV ) were denied . It was denied that he 
or his agents , workers and supporters with his consent or otherwise organized 
any meeting of the Muslim voters as mentioned in Schedule XIV or at any other 
place. It was denied that he or any other person with his consent or otherwise 
appealed to the Muslim electors that if they wanted Muslims of Kashmir to be 
freed , an independent Kashmir or the release of Sheikh Abdullah they should 
vote for him . It was denied that any appeal to Muslim voters was made to 
vote for him on the ground of religion . The entire allegations of this paragraph 
were denied and alleged to be unfounded as well as false and concocted . It was 
alleged that in any case the contents of annexure J did not amount to any 
corrupt practice and could not vitiate his election . It was alleged that the con 
tents of this paragraph and Schedule XIV were vague and as such were liable 
to be struck off under Order 6 rule 16 C . P . C . 

The contents of paragraph No. 6 - B ( V ) were alleged to be wrong. It was 
denied that Sarvsri Raj Narain Singh Raj Narain Dubey, Madho Ram and 
Jaswant Singh or any one else with his consent or otherwise had caused any dis 
turbance in the mceting dated 2nd April 1963 held at Patel Park Farrukhabad . 
It was alleged that in any case this did not amount to any corrupt practice within 
the meaning of section 123 of the Act . 

The contents of para . No . 6 ( B ) ( V ) of the petition were denied . It was alleged 
that even if it might be admitted that he did not submit any copy of the publica 
tions mentioned in this paragraph to the District Magistrate no corrupt practice 
could be said to have been committed , in as much as section 100 ( 1 ) ( D ) ( IV ) of 
R . P . Act of 1951 did not deal with any corrupt practice . In any case the result 
of the election could not be materially affected by the alleged non - compliance 
or breach of this rule . 

The contents of paragraph 6 ( B ) ( VI) of the petition relating to non - com 
pliance of section 77 was alleged to be a repetition of that charges mentioned 
above, which was totally false . It was alleged that the return of clection 
expenditure was perfectly valid and in a correct form . 

The contents of paragraph No. 7 of the petition were denied . The contents 
of paragraph No. 8 were also denied . It was alleged that the affidavit filed 
along with the petition was not a proper and legal affidavit and the petition was 
liable to be dismissed on that very ground . It was denied that the petitioner 
was entitled to any relief. 

The following issucs were framed for determination of this Election Petition : 


Issues 


( 1 ) ( a ). Is the petitioner an elector from Farrukhabad . Parliamentary 
Constituency within the meaning of section 81 of the Representation of Peoples 
Act 1951 ? 

( 1 ) ( b ) . Is the petitioner not Sri Nitya Nand alias Niranjan Das? If so , its 
effect ? 

( 2 ) Is Sri A , N . Sen authorized to receive pctition ? If so or not, its effect 
upon the proper presentation of petition ? 

( 3 ) ( a ) Did respondent No. 1 , his election agents , workers and supporters get 
Jublished in the newspaper " Chaukhamba " on 4th May 1983 the news items 
mentioned in paragraph ( A ) ( a ) (1) of the petition ? 


- 


- 


- 


Sec . 8 (ii)] , GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1985 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 1600 
- - 

- - - - - - 
( b ) Did respondent No. 1 and with his consent his election agents, workers 
and supporters get distributed newspaper " Chaukhamba " dated 4th May 1963 on 
the dates and places mentioned in Schedule I of the petition ? 

( c ) Was the said statement false and was it calculated to assail the personal 
character, honour , integrity, conduct and veracity of respondents nos. 2 and 3 ? 

( 4 ) ( a ) Did respondent No. 1 and with his consent his election agents , agents , 
workers and supporters repeat the said statement thousands of times in general 
public and public meetings that the respondent No. 3 has accepted Rs. 26 .000 / 
trom respondent No. 2 in order to get respondent No. 1 defeated and get res 


estimation of the voters and also to show that the said persons were men of no 
character and it was also made to prejudice the prospects of the election of 
respondents nos. 2 and 3 ? 

( 5 ) ( a ) Did respondent No. 1 monopolise the policy of the newspaper “ Chattan " 
by making handsome payment to its Editor, respondent No. 6 ? 

(b ) Did the newspaper " Chattan " publish the news items in the paper dated 
1st April 1963, 15th April 1963 and 13th May 19637 Were these news items false ? 
Do they mean corrupt practices within the meaning of the Act ? 

( c ) Whether the said paper containing the said news items mentioned above 
was distributed in the meeting by respondent No. 1 ? 

(6 ) ( a ) Did Sri Arjun Singh Bhadoria publish a leaflet vide annexure D 
under the caption " Dosto Hoshiar Rahen " " with the consent of the respondent 
No. 1 ? Was the leaflet meant to make out respondents Nos . 2 and 3 as dishonest 
persons as well as liars and men of no character , having a false profession ? If 
so, its effect ? 

( b ) Was the said leaflet distributed by respondent No . 1 and with his consent 
by his election agents , workers and agents and other supporters ? 

( 7 ) ( a ) Are the persons noted in Schedule III the members of the U . P . Legis 
lative Assembly elected on Socialist ticket and are persons noted in Schedule IV 
office bearers of Socialist Party U . P . and also other States ? 


statement that Sri Bharat Singh Rathore has been made to stand a3 candidate 
by the Congress and has been paid Rs. 25 ,000 / - for the same? Did this statement 
prejudice the prospects of the election of respondents Nos . 2 and 3 and was it 
meant to injure their character ? If so , its effect ? 


( 8 ) Did respondent No. 1 and with his consent his election agents , supporters , 
workers and agents get printed , published and distributed two pamphlets ncted 
in annexure E ? Were these statements falsc within the knowledge of respon 
dent No. 1 and his agents and workers and were these statements encircled in 
red made to injure the character of respondents 2 and 3 with a view to prejudice 
the prospects of the election of the said respondents Nos. 2 and 3 ? 


( 9 ) Whether respondent No. 1 and with his consent his clcction agents, agents , 
workers and supporters got printed , published and distributed notices mentioned 
in Annexure T and G ? Did the allegations contained in the said pamphlets 
amount to corrupt practices within the meaning of the Act and were the said 
statements false and believed to be false by respondent No . 1 and inade to injure 
the character of respondents Nos. 2 and 3 in order to prejudice their election ? 


( 10 ) Did respondent No. 1 and with his consent his workers election agents , 
agents and supporters spend nearly 10 lakhs of rupees over the election of res 
pondent No . 12 Are the accounts of election expenditure filed by thc respondent 
No . 1 false and incorrect ? 


( 11 ) Whether respondent No. 1 and with his consent his workers, election 
agents , supporters and agents spent the amount noted in the instances VIII ( a ) to 
VIII ( h ) of the election petition ? If so , its effect ? 


( 12 ) Whether the Pradhan of Gaon Sabha Kanjhiana received a sum of 
Rs. 101 / - from respondent No. 1 and with his consent his agents , workers and 
supporters to do the acts mentioned in para . IX of the petition ? 


7610 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1963 /VALŞAKHA 18, 1887 [Part II 
= = = 

- - - T 

= : = = = 
( 13 ) Whether respondent No. 1 and with his consent his agents , election 
agents, workers and supporters made gift of calendars ( annexure K ) to the 
voters as illegal gratification which induced them to vote for respondent No. 1 ? 
If so , its effect ? 

( 14 ) Did the lady workers of respondent No. 1 vide their names given in 
Schedule VIII with his consent as well as with the consent of his election agents, 
lady workers and other suporters exercise undue influence on women voters as 
alleged in para , XI of the petition ? If so , its effect . 

( 15 ) Whether respondent No. 1 held several meetings of the electors of Vaish 
Community and appealed to them to vote for him on the ground of caste and 
community ? If so , its effect ? 

( 16 ) Whether respondent no . 1 and his election agents , workers and supporters 
made promises to the Govt. servants that their pay and allowances will be 
increased if respondent No. 1 is elected to the Parliament and was the canvass 
ing done for respondent No. 1 by the persons mentioned in Schedule X on that 
account ? If so , its effect ? 

( 17 ) Whether respondent No . 1 engaged Sri Lakhan Singh , Sarpanch Nayay 
Panchayat Bhunna and Shri Sri Ram Gupta , Sarpanch Nayaya Panchayat 
Yaqutganj, to work as his election agents and did the aforesaid Sarpanchas with 
the consent of his clection agents , agents , supporters and workers exercise undue 
influence upon the voters to vote for respondent No. 1 ? If so , its effect ? 

( 18 ) Did respondent No . 1 , his election agents and co - workers import about 
5 or 6 thousands workers from other Districts and States and inade available 
to them ample funds with the result that these workers got control over the 
local influential people and did the said workers , agents and supporters with 
the consent of respondent No. 1 bring undue influence on the electors to vote for 
respondent No. 1 ? If so , its cffect ? 

( 19 ) Did respondent No. 1 make an offer to Jansangh Party not to put up 
any candidate at the election and in consideration of this withdrawal the 
Socialist Party was not to put up a candidate against Sri Din Dayal Upadhya, a 
candidate of Jansangh Party from Jaunpur Constituency ? Does this offer amount 
to corrupt practice within the meaning of the Act ? If so , its effect ? 

( 20 ) Whether respondent No. 1 and with his consent his agents and workers 
hired and procured a large number of bullock - carts, ekkas, tongas and rickshaws 
for convcyance of voters to and from polling stations to their home? Did this 
act prejudicially effect the election of other candidates ? If so , its effect ? 

( 21 ) Was the result of the election materially effected on account of non 
compliance of the Act and Rules in view of the irregularities mentioned in 
paras . 1 ( B ) ( I ) to 6 ( B ) ( lil) of the election petition ? 

( 22 ) Whether respondent No . 1 and with his consent his clection agents , 
agents , supporters and workers held several meetings of the Muslim religion 
as alleged in para. ( B ) ( 4 ) of the petition ? If so , its effect ? 

( 23 ) ( a ) Whether the agents , workers and supporters of respondent No. 1 with 
his consent acted in disorderly manner in a public meeting of the Congress as 
mentioned in Schedule XVI? If so, does it amount to a corrupt practice and 
did it materially effect the result of the election ? 

( b ) Is it a ground for setting aside the election ? 

( 24 ) Did respondent No. 1 commit a breach of the Rules mentioned in paras . 
6 ( B ) ( 5 ) of the petition ? Does it amount to a corrupt practice within the mean 
ing of section 100 ( a ) ( D ) ( IV ) of the R . P . Act and can the election be set aside 
on this ground ? 

( 25 ) Did respondent No. 1 not maintain the accounts as required under section 
77 of the R . P . Act ? Was the return of election expenditure filed by him invalid 
and illegal as well as improper ? If so , its effect ? 

( 26 ) Are the allegations contained in paras, 6 ( A ) ( a ) (i ) to 6 ( B ) ( iv ) of the 
petition vague and lacking in particulars as alleged in the written statement ? 
If so , its effect ? 

( 27) Do the allegations contained in paragraphs 6 ( A ) ( a ) ( I ), ( II ), ( III) , 6 ( A ) 
( a ) IV . V , VI, VII and IX , B ( A ) XIV , XVI, 6B ( IV ) , 6 ( B ) ( II ) and 1 ( B ) ( VI) afford 
a ground as alleged in the written statement? If not, its effect ? 


SEC, 3 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 

- 


1611 


- = 


(28 ) To what rellef, if any , is the petitioner entitled ? 
( 29 ) Whether newspaper Chaukhamba is the official news- paper 


of 


the: 


( 30 ) Whether newspaper Chattan is mouth - piece of Socialist Party as well 
as that of respondent No . 1 ? If so , its cffect ? 

The pctitioner inspite of several adjournments did not lead any evidence 
nor did he turn . On behalf of Respondent No . 1 also no evidence was adduced . 


Findings 


Issue No, ( 1 ) ( a ) and (b ). - Both these issues can be taken up together as 
these are , more or less, interconnected . Ext. 1 which is the voters list goes to 
show that at serial No. 72 the name of Nitya Nand - Balram Das is mentioned . 
The allegations of the petitioner are that he happens to be Nitya Nand Chcla 
Baba Balramdass . In support of this allegation the petitioner hay filed Ext. 3 
which is a copy of the application given in Misc . case No. 79 /69 cf 1957 by Baba 
Balramdas in the Court of Sri Ram Behari Lal, Civil Judge. In paragraph 
No. 3 it is clearly mentioned that he had adopted Sri Nitya Nand as his Chola 
and he had changed his name into Baba Niranjan Das . Ext . 5 is the copy of an 
application given to the Executive Officer Municipal Board Farrukhabad on 5th 
January 1949 by the petitioner in which his name is mentioned as Nitya Nand 
alias Baba Niranjan Das Chela Baba Balram Das. Ext. 6 is a copy of the order 
of the Munsif Havali dated 1st February 1961 in Misc . case No. 170 /60 in original 
suit No. 66 of 1959 in which the name of the defendant is mentioned as Nitya 
Nand jo ki apne ko Baba Niranjan Das Chela Baba Balramdas Kahta hai . Ext. 
7 is a copy of plaint filed in suit No. 24 of 1960 in the Court of the Civil Judge 
Farrukhabad in which the name of the defendant is mentioned as Sri Nitya 
Nand Sharma son of Baba Balram Das. Ext. 10 is a copy of the execution applica 
tion No . 81 of 1963 moved by the Union of India in which the name of the 
judgment-debtor is mentioned as Nitya Nand Sharma now allas Baba Niranjan 
Das son of Balramdas . Ext. 11 is a slip in lieu of a licence form which goes to 
show that Niranjan Das Chela Balramdas was given a licence . In Execution 
casc No . 81 / 1963 there is a report of Sri S . K . Pahar in which it is mentioned that 
one Nitya Nand son of Jwala Prasad is now Chela of Baba Balramdaş. He is 
now known as Niranjan Daş, In my view , therefore , this documentary evidence 
which is not controverted from the other side lcaves no room for doubt that the 
petitioner is known as Nitya Nand alias Niranjan Das Chela Balramdas and that 
he was clector from Farrukhabad Parliamentary Constituency within the mean 
ing of Section 81 of the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951? Both the parts 
of issue No. 1 are decided accordingly . 

Issue No. ( 2 ) , — The present petition was presented to Sri A . N . Sen , Under 
Secretary, Election Commission , India . It has not been shown from the side of 
the opposite -party why his authority to receive the petition should not be 
believed . This issue is decided against respondent No. 1 . 

Issue No. 3 ( a ), — The burden of proof was upon the petitioner . He did not 


against the petitioner, 


fact. He has not adduced any evidence on this fact. This issue is also liable to 
be decided against the petitioner . 

Issue No . 3 ( c ). — The burden of proof was upon the petitioner to prove this fact . 
In any case in view of my findings on Issues Nos. 3 ( a ) and 3 (b ) this fact also being 
not proved the issue is decided against the petitioner, 

Issue No. 4 (u ), — The burden of proof was upon the petitioner to prove this fact. 
He has not adduced any evidence on this point. This issue is , therefore, decided 
against the petitioner , 

Issue No . 1 ( ) . In view of my findings on issue No. 4 ( a ) it is clear that this 
plea cannot be held in favour of the petitioner . On the other hand , there is also 
no evidence to prove this fact . Consequently , this issue is also liable to be decided 
against the petitioner . 

Issue No . 5 (w ). — The petitioner has not adduced any evidence to show that the 
policy of paper " Chattan " was monopolised by respondent No . 1. There is no 
evidence to prove payment to the editor respondent No . 6 . The issue is decided 
against the petitioner . 


1612 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8. 1965 /VAISAKHA 18, 1887 


[PART II 


Issue No . 5 (b ). — There is no proof to prove the news-items as alleged . No evid 
ence has been adduced by the petitioner on this point. The issue is , therefore , 
llable to be decided against the petitioner . 

Issue No . 5 ( C ). - The burden of proof was upon the petitioner to prove this fact. 
He has not adduced any evidence to discharge this burden . This issue is liable to 
be decided against the petitioner , 

Issue No . 6 ( a ) . — The petitioner has not adduced any evidence in proof of this 
fact. The issue is , therefore, liable to be decided against the petitioner, 

Issue No . 6 ( 6 ). — It was upon the petitioner to prove this fact that such distribu 
tion by respondent No . 1 and with his consent by his election agents , workers and 
agents and other supporters was made. He has not discharged that burden , The 
Issue therefore, is decided against the petitioner, 

Issue No. 7 (a ) . — There is no proof adduced by the petitioner on this fact. This 
issue is , therefore , decided against the petitioner , 

Issue No. 7 (b ) .- There is no proof to show that the persons mentioned in Sche 
dule III and IV published any such statements. Consequently , this issue is also 
liable to be decided against the petitioner. 


and the burden of proof being upon him , this issue is liable to be decided against 
the petitioner, 

Issue No. 9 - The burden of proof was upon the petitioner to prove this fact. 
He has not adduced any evidence on this point. This issue is decided against the 
petitioner, 


this issue is decided against the petitioner , 

Issue No. 11. — The petitioner has not adduced any evidence in proof of this fact. 
"This issue is , therefore , decided against the petitioner. 

Issue No . 12. There is no evidence adduced from the side of the petitioner in 
proot of this fact. This issue is liable to be decided against the petitioner . 

Issue No. 13 . — The burden of proof lay upon the petitioner and he having not 
adduced any evidence to discharge that burden , the issue is decided against the 
petitioner . 

Issue No. 14 . — The burden of proof was upon the petitioner and no evidence 
having been adduced from his side, this issue is decided against the petitioner . 

Issue No . 15 . - The petitioner having not adduced any evidence on this score and 
the burden of proof being upon him this issue is decided against the petitioner , 

Issue No . 16 . - - There being no evidence adduced on this point from the side of 
the petitioner upon whom the burden lay to prove the same, this issue is liable 


Issue No.17. - There being no evidence on this point adduced from the side of 
the petitioner , this issue is also decided against the petitioner, 

Issue No 18 . — The petitioner having not asiduced any evidence on this score , 
this issue is decided against him . 

Issue No. 19 .-- The petitioner having not adduced any evidence on this score, 
the issue is decided against him , 

Issie No, 20 . — The burden of proof was upon the petitioner to prove this fact 
and he having not discharged the same the issue is decided against him . 

Issile No . 21 . — The burden of proof was upon the petitioner of this fact. He 
having not discharged that burden this point does not arise , The issue is decided 
against the petitioner , 

Issue No . 22 . — The hurden to prove this point lay upon the petitioner and he 
having not discharged that burden the issue is decided against him . 

Issue No. 23 (a ). — No evidence having been adduced from the side of the peti 
tioner , the issue is decided against him . 

Issue No. 23(b ). - In view of my findings on issue No. 23 ( a ) there is no need 
to give ar y finding on this issue. 


Sec, 3( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18, 1887 

I613 
- - - - 

- - - - = 

- - - - 
Issue No. 24 .- - The petitioner having not adduced any cvidence on this issue . It 
is liable to be decided against the petitioner . 

Issue No , 25 . — The burden of proof lay upon the petitioner and he having not 
discharged that burden the issue is decided against him . 

Issues Nos . 26 and 27 . — Both these issues were made the preliminary issues and 
these were derided by me on 4th January 1964 . Copy of the findings shall be in 
corporated in this judgment. 

Issue No . 29. — The burden of proof was upon the petitioner to prove this fact . 
He has not adduced ally evidence in support of this fact. The issue is decided 
against him . 

Issue No . 30 , - The burden of proof was upon the petitioner to prove this point. 
He has not discharged this burden . The issue is decided against him . 

Issue No . 28 . — In view of iny Andings given above, I am of this view that this 
election petition is liable to be dismissed . I also ſind that the petitioner has failed 
to prove that any corrupt practices had been committed either by respondent No . 1 
Gr by any one against whom allegations were made from the side of the petitioner. 
Respondent No. 1 will get costs of this petition from the petitioner including 
pleaders fee which I assess at Rs. 500 / - Respondent No. 1 shall recover costs from 
the amount of security so deposited hy the petitioner in this petition , 


ORDER 


The Election petition is dismissed . Respondent No, I will get costs of this peti 
tion from the petitioner including pleaders fee which I assess at Rs, 500 / -. Respon 
dent No. 1 shall recover costs from the amount of security so deposited in this 
petition by the petitioner. The petitioner has failed to prove that respondent No . 1 
committed any corrupt practice or that any one committed corrupt practices about 
whom allegations were made in the petition . 

( Sd .) S . K . Kaul , 
Member , Election Tribunal, 
Farrukhabad . 

2 - 4 - 1965. 
Judgment signed , dated and pronounced in the open court. 

( Sd .) S . K . KAUL , 
Member, Election Tribunal, 
Farrukhabad . 

24 -1966 . 


Copy of findings of Issue N . 27 & 26 with Andings in Election Petition No . 5 
of 1963 Sri Nitya Nand Vs. Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia and others , 


Findings 
Issue No. 27 : 

The argument advanced from the side of the respondent No . 1 was ihat even 
If the allegations made out in these paragraphs of the petition are accepted as 
correct or proved, still these do not afford a ground to the petitioner to set aside 
the election of respondent No. 1 . It was urged that I should give a Anding that 
these grounds do not come within the definition of corrupt practices and as such 
these paragraphs should be struck off in as much as if evidence was allowed to be 
led with respect to the allegations made out in these paragraphs and then a finding 
was given that these grounds do not amount to corrupt practices, it would involve 
unnecessary expenditure to the parties as well as waste of time in as much as 
witnesses will be produced in number in support or disproof of these allegations, 
I am afraid , I do not agree with this contention advanced from the side of the 
Tespondent No. 1 to give a finding today categorically whether these grounds come 
within the definition of corrupt practices or not and do these aſford a ground to 
the petitioner to get the election of respondent No. 1 set aside. It is significant to 
note that all these allegations are allegations of fact and are not surh allegations 
which could be deemed as allegations of law which require preliminary hearing 
which might decide the petition one way or the other . Plece -meal decision of some 
grounds leaving the others open cannot be deemed to be feasible in as much as 
evidence still will have to be led in this case with respect to other allegations made 
out in the petition with the result that the petition cannot be dismissed inlimine 


- 


. 


1614 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 [Part II 
- - - 

- - - - 

= 
at the stage. Assuming for a moment that some of these grounds are held by me 
as an amounting to corrupt practices and others are not so held it would mean an 
expression of opinion on fact one way or the other which would afford a ground 
to the parties to go up in appeal and this in other words would mean expenditure 
and taking up too much time, for it may be that the appellate court may come to : 
a different conclusion necessitates remand . This precisely had to be avoided in 
such petitions inasmuch as it is desirable that all points should he threshed out at 
one sitting and evidence taken down at one sitting and not plece -meal. Their 
Lordships of the Supreme Court in the case of Faj Krushna Bose Vs. Binod Kanungo 
and others reported in E .L , R . Volume 9 page 294 had an occassion to make an 
observation or similar lines indicating the manner in which the election petitions 
have to be disposed off by Tribunal. In that case although 12 issues were framed 
only two issues were decided by the Tribunal on the basis on which the petition 
was allowed and the remaining issues were left undecided . Their Lordships observ 
ed at page 299 that " We wish to record our disapproval of the way in which this 
Tribunal shIrked Its work and tried to take a short-cut, it is essential that these 
Tribunals should do their work in full. They are ad hoc bodies to which remands 
cannot essily be made as in ordinary courts of law a number of allegations were 
made in the petition about corrupt and illegal practices , undue influence and 
bribery . It was the duty of the Tribunal not only to enquire into those allegations, 
as it did , but also to complete the enquiry by recording findings about those allega 
tion and either condemn or clear the candidate of the charges made." It is there 
fore clear that following the observations of their Lordships of the Supreme Court 
it is not desirable to express an opinion one way or the other at this stage when 
evidently evidence will have to be led in any case on other points involved in this 
petition . 

In another case their Lordships of the Supreme Court observed on Balwant 
Singh Vs. Lakęshmi Narain and others reported in E .L , R . Volume 22 page 273 at 
page 280 that " By the Representation of the People Act, 1951, as amended by Act 
27 of 1956 , a penalty of dismissal of a petition or the striking out of the plea of 
a corrupt practices namely because particulars in that behalf are not set out is not 
Imposed . By section 90 clause ( 5 ) of the Act the Tribunal is authorised to allow 
particulars of any corrupt practice alleged in the petition , to be amended or ampli 
fled in such manner as may , in its opinion , be necessary for ensuring a fair and 
ellective trial of the petition . By section 90 ( 1 ) of the Act every election petition 
is, subject to the provisions of the Art and Rules made thereunder to be tried . as 
nearly as may be, in accordance with the procedure applicable under the Civil 
Procedure Code to the trial of suits; and for failure to furnish particulars after 
being so ordered , but not before , the Tribunal may strike out a defective plea . 
The practice to be followed in cases where insufficient particulars of a corrupt 
practice are set forth in an election petition is this . An election petition is not 
lable to be dismissed in limine merely because full particulars of a corrupt prac 
tice alleged in the petition , are not set out. Where an objection is raised by the 
respondent that a petition is defective because full particulars of an alleged corrupt 
practice are not set out, the Tribunal is bound to decide whether the objection is 
well founded . If the Tribunal upholds the objection , it should give an opportunity 
to the petitioner to apply for leave to amend or amplify the particulars of the 
corrupt practice alleged ; and in the event of non - compliance with that order the 
particulars of corrupt practices its undoubtedly of paramount importance in the 
trial of an election petition , but if the parties go to trial despite the absence of full 
particulars of the corrupt practice alleged , and evidence of the contesting parties 
is led on the plea raised by the petition , the petition cannot thereafter be dismissed 
for want of particulars , because the defect is one of procedure and not one of 
jurisdiction of Tribunal to adjudicate upon the pleas in the absence of particulars ." 


We find that in the other preliminary Issuc namely 26 the contention of respon 
dent No. 1 was that particulars were vague and lacking Consiquently there two 
things cannot be separated in as much as I cannot be asked to declare that the 
allegations contained in paras. Noted in issue No . 27 do not afford a ground to the 
petitioner nor do these come under corrupt practices and at the same time allow 
the petition or give my finding on issue No. 28 , that such and such particulars or 
lacking or whether amplification of those particulars has to be given or not . It is 
therefore. clear that giving a decision of issue 13 . 27 at this stage will neither be 
feasible nor desirable I have already mentioned above that had this been a legal 
point it would not involve production of evidence or if this was a point which 
would have been sumcient in itself to throw out the petition , it would have been 
imperative on my part to have decided this issue first in 9 much as if it was 
found in favour of respondent No . 1 the petition could have been through out. 
Nothing of the kind is to be found in this case . I am supported in this view by 
observations of their Lordships of the Supreme Court in the case of K . Kamaraja 


. - GA , OF , A : MAY 8 , . . /VAISAKHA 18, 1887 1615 

- -- - = - 
Nadar Vs. Kunju Thever and others reported in E . L . R . Volume 14 page 270 . In that 
case the question involved was whether there was suficient compliance with the 
provisions of section 117 of R . P . Act and before the Election Tribunal an applica 
tion was moved that this ground may be made a preliminary objection and be 
disposed off first. The Election Tribunal however did not decide the preliminary 
objection but ordered the trial of the petition to proceed , Their Lordships observed 
at page 296 that " We are of opinion that both the Election Tribunal and the High 
Court were wrong in the view they took , If the preliminary objection was not 
entertained and a decision reached thereupon , further proceedings taken in the 
Election Petition would mean a full fledged trial involving examination of a large 
number of witnesses on behalf of the second respondent in support of the numerous 
allegations of corrupt practices attributed by him to the appellant, his other agent 
working on his behalf , examination of a large number of witnesses by or on behalf 
of the appellant controverting the allegations made against him it would mean 
unnecessary harassment and expenses for the appellant which could certainly be 
avoided if the preliminary objection urged by him was decided at the initial stage 
by the Election Tribunal." 

Now the question involved in that case was that if the preliminary objection 
could dispose of the petition it should be disposed off first because if it was 
found in favour of the respondent, it would shut evidence on all other facts 
because non - compliance of section 117 in itself tantamounted to a dismissal of 
petition without entering into other facts . As remarked by ine above in this case 
this is not the position . Similarly in the case of S . Pratap Singh Kairon Vs. 
S . Gurmej Singh reported in E . I. R . Volume 14 page 412 it was observed by their 
Lordships that if a decision on issue of law could decide part of the case , it 
should be made a preliminary issue and decided first . Now in that case issue 
Na, 8 related to the position of Lumberdar vis - a -vis the Govt. The contention 
advanced before the election Tribunal was that Lumberdar was not a person in 
the service of Govt. and consequently if this finding of law was given , it would 
be unnecessary to enter into facts involved in respect of that issue. Similarly 
there were two other issues namely issues Nos . 3 and 7 which were tried to 
be argued out from the side of the respondent to be preliminary issues . Their 
Lordships observed at page 422 that the necessity for deciding issue no . 7 would 
arise only if the first part of issue No . 3 (namely , whether it is competent for 
the petitioner to raise any objection at this stage that the nomination paper 
Aled by Santa Singh should not have been rcjected by the returning officer ) is 
decided in favour of the applicant. Issue No. 3 is thus clearly a preliminary 
issue of law the decision of which would dispose of a part of the case . It is 
therefore clcar that the ruling cited above lays down this proposition that if 
there are issues of law which could dispose of a part of the case and about 
which a preliminary objection was taken then these should be made preliminary 
issues , then Election Tribunal was to dispose off those issues first and not to 
postpone the decision of these issues. Nothing of the kind is to be found in this 
case before me. 


Consequently after giving my careful consideration I am of this view that 
it is neither desirable nor feasible to express an opinion one way or the other 
whether the allegations contained in paragraphs 6 ( A ) ( a ) ( I) , 7 ( II ), ( III), 6 ( A ) 
( a ) IV , V , VI, VII, and IX , 6 ( a )XIV XVI, 6B ( IV ) . ( B ) ( II ) and 6 ( B ) ( VT) afford 
a ground to the petitioner to set aside the election of the respondent No. 1 and 
whether these came within the definition of corrupt practices or not inasmuch 
as this being a question of fact it will have to be gone into at an appropriate 
stage. Moreover about these very allegations a plea was taken about which 
issue No. 26 is framed that these lack in particulars and were vague, Conse 
quently without giving an opportunity to the petitioner to amplify the particulars 
in case it is found that these do lack in particulars or that these were vaguo 
it would be inequitable to strike off these allegations at this stage . I would 
therefore hold that the decision of this issue will be given along with other 
issues when evidence is led by the parties before me in connection with the 
trial of this petition . 


Issue No, 26 : 


I shall discuss this issue para by para in order to find out whether the allega 
tions made out in these contested paragraphs lack in particulars and are vague 
or not " B ( A ) ( a ) ( i) : In this paragraph instances of corrupt practices were given 
in respect of dates, places and time as mentioned in schedule . On going through 
this schedule I find that no doubt dates were mentioned but relating to places 
only the names of towns were mentioned . It was also mentioned as against Sri 
Ram Sewak Yadava that distribution took place in the entire constituency . As 


1616 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAIŞAKHA 18 , 1887 


[PART 11 


against Sri Lakhi Singh it was mentioned that distribution was made in the 
entire area of Ganga Par. As against Sri Ugra Sen and Sri Vash Dev Singh it 
was mentioned that on such and such dates distribution was made in paraganas 
of Tirwa and Kannauj. In the case of Bishen Chandra Seth Vs. Election Tribu 
nal (Shahjahanpur ) and others reported in E .L . R . 1959 Volume 17 page 196 His 
Lordship has clearly observed at page 197 that " Learned counsel for the peti 
tioner says that in the Election petition the dates of the commission of the 
corrupt practices have been vaguely stated by saying that the corrupt practices 
were committed during the course of Election campaign , and , as regards the 
places where the corrupt practices were committed , it was stated that they were 
committed throughout the constituency . There can be no doubt that these 
allegations were very vague " . Similarly in the case of Gahayur Ali Khan V8 . 
Keshav Gupta reported in E . L . R . 1959 volume 16 page 154 their Lordships 
observed at page 167 that " Saying that it was distributed throughout the consti 
tuency is not specifying any place at all" . Similarly in another case of Ashtak 
Ali Khan Vs. Darshan Singh and others reported in E .L . R . 1959 volume 20 page 
136 their Lordships observed that " As regards the place or places where an 
offensive pamphlet was distributed, it is not enough to allege that it was distri 
buted " throughout the constituency " this would not be sufficient compliance 
with the provision of secțion 33 ( b ) of the act as this realy does not amount to 
mentioning any place at all" . Thus I hold that in this schedule I amplification 
must be given by petitioner showing specifically specific places where distribu 
tion or utterances in public meetings took place as well as specific dates of those 
meetings and distributions, 

O ( A ) ( a ) (it). — Instances about this are also noted in schedule and as for reasons 
given above here as well amplification on the lines indicated above should be 
given by the petitioner , 


6 ( A ) ( a ) ( iii) . — This relates to circulation of a newspaper " Chattan " dated 1st 
April 1983, 15th April 1963 and 13th May 1963 instances of circulation of this 
paper were given in schedule LA . A perusal of this schedule IA goes to show 
that here as well only towns have been mentioned . For reasons mentioned in 
connection with schedule I here too amplification should be given by the peti 
tioner noting specific places and dates of such distribution . 

6 ( A ) ( a ) (iv ) . - - In this paragraph distribution of pamphlet was mentioned and 
Instances of this distribution were noted in schedule II. Once again a perusal 
of schedule IX goes to show that only towns have been mentioned and " Other 
places of Ganga Par " have been noted . This is vague. Definite places should 
be given and not the name of a town . 


6 ( A ) ( a ) ( v ) . -- This paragraph relates to publication of false statements at places 
given in schedules II , III, and IV . A perusal of these three schedules goes to show 
that these schedules also suffer from the same defect inasmuch as only the names 
of towns have been mentioned . Specific places should be noted and amplifica 
tion given by the petitioner . 


6 ( A ) ( a ) (vi). — This paragraph relates to publication and distribution of two 
pamphlets noted in annexure E . Instances of distribution of these pamphlets 
were given in schedule V . A perusal of this schedule V goes to show that here 
as well the names of towns have been noted and not the specific places . I may 
note here that wherever a big town like Kannauj or Farrukhabad is mentioned 
the name of Mohalla should be given so as to give an idea on the respondent 
what he is supposed to meet. 


6 ( A ) ( a ) (vii).-- This relates to printing and publishing two notices mentioned in 
annexures F . 8 G , and also distribution of these two notices at places given in 
schedule VI, A perusal of schedule VI goes to show that here also towns have 
been mentioned and " entire constituency at different places was mentioned . 
This is vague and for reasons noted above by mę specific places should be noted 
by the petitioner and amplification given thereby, 


6 ( A ) (a ) (viii) ( a ).-- - This relates to distribution of pamphlets , leaflets , posters and 
calenders the details of which were given in schedule XVII and annexures of 
which were G , C , K , L , 80 far as the annexures are concerned it cannot be said 
to be vague but as regards distribution of these things of which instances were 
given in schedule XVIIA , I find that in schedule XVII distribution was said 
to be " In the constituency from 4th May 1963 to 7th May 1963 by the following 
persons" . This is vague as specific places and dates of such distribution should 
be given in this schedule , 


BEC . (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18, 1887 


1617 


6 ( A ) ( a ) (viri ) ( b ), - - In this para purchase of paper and printing of leaflets etc . was 
given . In this para speciflc quantity of paper , shop from which purchases were 
made and from where pamphlets were printed should be given to make the 
allegation specific and not vague. 

6 ( A ) ( a ) (vill) ( c ). In this paragraph allegation about stencilling was made but 
no specific place was noted . This should be given namely the place or polling 
stations where this stencilling took place . 

( A ) ( a ) ( iii) ( d ), — This does not require any amplification as the name of the 
person in whose name the telephone connection was taken has been noted . 

6 ( A ) ( a ) ( viii) ( e ). — This cannot be paid to be vague and does not require further 
amplification , 

6 ( A ) ( a ) ( viii) ( ) .- - This relates to engagement of workers from out side. In this 
clause places from where the workers were imported , the expences incurred 
over these workers and the period of such expenses should be specifically noted . 

B ( A ) ( a ) (viii ) ( o ). — This relates to purchase of petrol. Here the name of the 
petrol shop from where this petrol is said to have been purchased should be given 
to put the respondent No. 1 in a position to meet it out. 

8 ( A ) (a )( viit )(h ).- - It does not require further amplification , 

6 ( A ) ( a ) ( 2x ) . — This relates to promises to pay Pradhan of Gram Samaj of a 
polling station . It also relates to intimidation of electors by the workers , sup 
porters and agents of respondent No. 1 as well as by the Pradhan of Kanjhiana. 
The details were given in schedule VII. Schedule VII shows that although date 
is noted but place is not noted . Place should be mentioned . Then again the 
name of electors subjected to threat or intimidation should also be clearly glven 
by the petitioner , as was observed by Their Lordships in the case of Chandra 
Shekhar Singh Vs. Sarju Pd. Singh and another reported in E .L . R . 1980 volume 
22 page 206 at page 219 . Here Their Lordships clearly observed that " u / s 123 ( 2 ) 
It is provided that if any candidate or his agent threatens any elector with injury 
of any kind , he shall be deemed to have interferred with the free exercise of 
the electoral right. The particulars of corrupt practices necessarily include the 
names of the electors alleged to have been subjected to such corrupt practices . 


6 ( A ) ( a ) ( x ). — This relates to making gifts of calendars to the voters instances of 
which were given in schedule XV . Here only few names were given , The peti 
tioner must give names of those voters to whom these calenders were given or he 
can confine his case to these few names alone. This amplification should be given 
by him . Moreover here as well specific dates and names of places should be 
given . This amplification in any case has got to be made in this schedule . 


6 ( A ) ( a ) ( x1). — This relates to engagement of lady workers who Influenced female 


were given in schedule VIII. A perusal of this schedule goes to show that here 
also specific places have not been given . Only the names of towns are given . 
Amplifications should therefore be given showing specific places . I do not agree 


be given because it is clearly mentioned in this para that female voters of the 
constituency were contacted in this behalf and polling lists of voters being avail 
able it cannot be said that any thing vague is left out because it would be a 
matter of evidence. 

6 ( A ) ( a ) (x1 ). — This paragraph relates to appeal by respondent No . 1 to Agrawal 
Vaish Community of Farrukhabad district. The details of meetings where this 
appeal was made are noted in schedule IX . The perusal of this schedule goes 
to show that here also only names of towns have been mentioned . Specific 
places of meetings should be noted here . I do not agree with the contention 
advanced from the side of the respondent No. 1 that the names of the voters to 
whom this appeal was made should be glven because here it was mentioned that 
this appeal was made to Agrawal Vaish voters and consequently once again 
polling list being available it does not require any amplification but it is a matter 
purely concerned with evidence . 


6 ( A ) ( a ) ( xiii). This relates to promises made to the Govt. servants . In schedule 
X names of the Govt. servants and places where these persong worked have been 
given . I find from a perusal of this schedule that at serial No. 5 names of the 
head congtables and constables were not given , Similarly the name of the 
villages also as against this are not noted . These details should be amplified . 


1618 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 / VAISAKHA 18 , 1887. 


[ PART 11 


6 ( A ) (a ) ( xiv ).--- This relates to exercise of undue influence by surpanches upon 
the voters. The details about this were given in schedule XVIII, A perusal of 
this schedule goes to show that although the names of sarpanches were given but 
names of the voters upon whom this undue influence was exercised were not 
given . For reasons given by me above the names of the voters upon whom 
this undue influence was exercised should be given and to this effect amplifica . 
tion is necessary on the part of the petitioner . 

G ( A ) ( a ) (37 ),- - In this paragraph undue influence was said to have been exer 
cised upon the electors by the workers , agents and suporters of respondent No. 1 . 
No instance has been quoted I would therefore mention here that a schedule 
should be given giving the names of those workers who cxercised undue influ 
ence , dates and places and the names of the voters upon whom this undue influ 
ence was exercised should also be given , to remove vagueness. 


6 ( A )( a ) ( vi). - It does not require any amplification , 

6 ( A ) ( a ) (xvii). — This relates to hiring and procuring of bullock -carts , Ekkas , 
Tongas and rickshaws for the conveyance of the electors to and from polling 
stations. The details were given in schedule XIII. Since corrupt practice on 
this scope is hiring or procuring a vehicle for conveyance of electors , it is 
essential that the names of the voters conveyed , places from where these were 
conveyed , the names of polling stations as well as clear identity of the names of 
the owners of these vehicles should be given . In this respect schedule XIII. is 
lacking and consequently amplification on the lines indicated by me above should 
be given by the petitioner . 

6 ( B ) ( 0); — This relates to exercise of undue influence upon the voters relating 
to polling stations given in schedule XIII, In schedule XII the names of the 
polling stations are given but the names of the agents , workers and supporters 
who exercised undue influence as well as the names of the voters upon whom 
this undue influence was exercised are not given . This should be amplified in 
this schedule . 


8 (B ) ( ii ). — This does not require any ampliAcation . 
8 ( B ) ( iii ). — This does not require any amplification . 

6 ( B ) (iv ). — This relates to appeal to Muslim community on this ground of religion 
and distribution of notices , pamphlets and meetings the details of which were 
given in schedule XIV . A perusal of this schedulo goes to show that here also 
the names of towns have been given . Specific names of the places where the 
meetings were held should be given and to this extent amplification should be 
made in this schedule . 


I give two weeks to petitioner to file the relevant amplifications detailed by : 
me above. He should move suitable amendment application in this behalf giving 
amplifcations as noted above. 


( Sd .) S . K . Kaul, 

Member, 
Election Tribunal, 
Farrukhabad. 

4 - 1 - 64 . 


Signed , dated and pronounced in open court. 


(Sa .) S . K , Kaul . 

Member, 
Election Tribunal, 
Farrukhabad . 

4 - 1- 84 . 


[No. 82 /5 /62.} 

By Order, 
PRAKASH NARAIN , Secy , 


. . . . . 


. E GA 


E OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 / VAISAKHA 18, 1887 


1619 


- -- 


- - 


- - .. . 


- 


- 


New Delhi , the 30th April 1965 
S . O . 1432. - The Central Government is pleased to notify that Raja Bahadur 
Shri Manvendra Singh Ju Dev and Maharajkumar Shri Lokendra Singh Ju Dev , 
song of Maharaja of Panna , have been nominated by the said ruler for the purpose 
of entry 2 ( b ) of Schedule I annexed to the Ministry of Home Affairs Notification 

No. 15 / 13/ 59 ( V ) - P.IV . dated the 13th July , 1962 [ G . S . R . No. 991 published in the 
Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub - Section ( ii ), dated the 28th July , 1962 ] . 

[ No . 16 / 8/ 63 - P.IV . ] 


G . L . BAILUR, Under Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


गृह मंत्रालय 

नई दिल्ल । 30 अप्रैल , 1965 
एस० मो० सं० 1 433.- केन्द्रीय सरकारको यह सूचित करते हुये हर्ष है कि पन्ना के महाराजा 
के पुत्र राजाबहादुर श्री मानवेन्द्र सिह जू देव, और महाराजकुमार श्री लोकेन्द्र सिंह जू देव, उक्त 
शासक द्वारा गृह मंत्रालय की 13 जुलाई, 1962 की अधिसूचना संख्या 15/ 13/ 59 पं०-IV 
के माथ संलग्न अनुसूची को प्रविष्टि 2 ( ख ) [ भारत के राजपत्र भाग II खण्ड 3, उपखण्ड( ii ) 
दिनांक 28 जलाई 1962 में प्रकाशित ज ० एस० भार० 991 के लिये नामित किये गये है । 

[संख्या 16 /8/ 65 पुलिस -IV.] 

___ जी० एल० वेलूर 
अवर सचिव , भारत सरकार । 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 


New Delhi , the 28th April, 1965. 
s . o . 1434. --In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act , 1949 ( 10 of 1949) , the Central Government , on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions of section 
9 of the said Act shall not apply to the Bari Doab Bank Ltd ., Hoshiarpur in 
respect of the properties held by it at Premgarh , Hoshiarpur District, Punjab 
and at Kotwal, Ferozepur District, Punjab , till the 15th March 1966 . 

__ [ No. F . 15 ( 6) - BC / 65 . ] 
B . J. HEERJEE , Under Secy. 


Sumut 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 29th April 1965 
S . O . 1435 . - Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the 23rd April, 1965 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LLABILITLES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


RS. 


Capital Paid Up . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


31,23,81,0% 

7 , 17 ,000 
3 ,53 ,000 


: 
. 


Reserve Fund . . . . . . 
National AgriculturalCredit (Long Term Opera 

tions) Fund . . . . . 


8 
, 


5 ,00 ,00,000 Notes . . . . . . . . . 

Rupee Coin . . . . . . . 
80 ,00 ,00 ,000 

Bills purchased and discounted : 
86 ,00 ,00 ,000 ( a ) Laternal 

(6 ) External . . . 

(c) Government Treasury Bills 
9,00 ,00 ,000 Balances held Abroad * . . . . . . . 
Investments * * . . . . . 

. .. . 

. 
10 ,00,00, 000 Loans and Advances to : 

Central Government . . . . . 
( 1) State Governments . . . . . 


Nitional Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) 

Fund . . . . . . . 
National Industrial Credit ( Long Term 

Operations) Fund . . . . . 


85, 17, 34 ,000 
6 ,74,73,000 


133 ,04,90, 000 


$ 3, 40 ,70,000 


- 


- 


Deposits 


(a) Government: 


119, 23 ,31,000 
119, 30,61,000 
4, 20, 55,000 


, 


(i) Central Government , 
(it) State Governmeots 


, 
. 


29 , 87 , 83 ,000 
10, 73,63,000 


(6 ) Banks : 


Loans and Adrances to 

Scheduled Bankst 
(* ) State Co -operative Bankstt , , , , , 

a ) Others . 
49 ,51, 99,000 Loans , advances and Investments from National Agricultural 

Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fuod 
16 , 49 , 30, 000 (a ) Loans and Advances to : 

O State Governments . . . . . . . 
(0 ) State Co-operative Banks . . . . . . 

(* ) Central Land Mortgage Banks . . 
(b) [avestment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Debentures . , 

Loans and Advances from National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) 
93, 98 ,86 , 000 Food 
3 ,95, 24 ,000 Loans and Advances to State Co- operative Banks . . . 
1 , 73, 000 Loans, Advances and Investments from National Iodustrial Credit 

(Long Term Operations) Fund 
168, 14 ,08 ,000 (a ) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank . . 

( b) Investment in bonds/ debentures issued by the Deve 
68 ,94 ,01, 000 

lopment Bank 
84,72 , 14,000 

Other Assets . . . . . . . . 
675, 68, 35 ,000 

Rupees 


445,53,000 


(1) Scheduled Banks 
( H ) State Co -operative Banks . 
(i ) Other Banks 


u 


( c ) Others 


1, 24 ,93 ,000 


Gits Payable 
Other Liabilities 


+ g 


46 ,89,78 , 000 
675,68,35 ,000 


! 


Rupees 


. 


. 


* Includes Cash and Short-term Securities. 
* * Excluding investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fuod ant the National Industrial Credit (Long 

Term Operations) Fund . 
@ Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Tem Operatlons) Fund , but including temporary overdrafts to 

State Governments. 
Includes Rs. 47,68,50 ,000 advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills under section 17 (4 ) (c) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
ftEncluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operations ) Fund and the National Agricultor ) Credit 
(Stabilisation ) Fid. 


An Accountpursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934 , for the week ended the 23rd day of April, 1965 

ISSUE DEPARTHENT 


1622 


LLABILITIES 


Rs. 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs. 


GA 


Gold Coin and Buſion : 


Notes held in the Banking Depart 

rent . 
Notes in circulation 
Total Notes issued . . 


31, 23,81, 000 
2712,70 ,26 , 000 


133,75 , 66 ,000 


2743 ,94,07, 000 


7246 ,13 ,000 


OF 


(6 ) Held outside India 
Foreign Securities 

TOTAL . . 
Rupee Coin . . 
Government of India Rupee Securities 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other 

commercial paper 


206 , 21 , 79 , 000 

96 , 57 ,53 , 000 
241, 15 , 15 ,000 


TOTAL LIABILITIES 


27.43 ,94 ,07 , 000 


TOTAL ASSETS 


2743 ,94 ,07, 000 


Dated the 28th day of April , 1965 . 


P . C . BHATTACHARYTA , 

Goveror . 


A:MAY8,1965/VAISAKHA18,1887 


[No. F . 3( 2 - BC165.] 


[PARTII 


Seo , 8 ( li )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 

18 , 1887 1623 
= - = - = 

- = - = -- = - - = - - - :- - = 

New Delhi, the 30th April 1965 
S . O . 1436 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
45 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949, the Central Government, after considering 


Mahajana Bank Ltd ., Vettaikaranpudur for the period from thc close of business 
on the 1st May 1965 up to and inclusive of the 31st August 1965 and hereby stays 
the commencement or continuance of all actions and proceedings against that 
banking company during the period of moratorium , subject to the condition that 
such stay shall not in any manner prejudice the exercise by the Central Govern 
ment of its powers under clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 4 ) of section 35 of the said 
Act or the exercise by the Rescrve Bank of India of its powers under section 
38 of the said Act . 


2 . The Central Government hereby also directs that during the period of 
moratorium granted to it , the Vettaikaranpudur Mahajana Bank Ltd ., 
Vettaikaranpudur, shall not , without the permission in writing of the Reserve 
Bank of India , 


agree to or disburse any payment, whether in discharge of its liabilities and obli 
gations or otherwise , or enter into any compromise or arrangement, except to the 
-extent and in the manner provided hereunder : 

( 1) a sum not exceeding 10 per cent of the total balance in every savings 

bank or current account or in any other deposit by whatever name 
called , provided that the sum total of the amounts paid in respect 
of the accounts standing in the name of any one person ( and not 
jointly with that of any other person ) does not exceed Rs, 250 and 
provided further that no amount shall be paid to any depositor who 

is indebted to the bank in any way ; 
( ii) the amounts of any drafts or pay orders işgucd by the said bank and 

remaining unpaid on the date of which the order of moratorium comes 

into force ; 
( iii ) the amounts of the bills received for collection on or before the 1st 

May 1965 and realised before , on or after that date; 


( iv ) any expenditure which has necessarily to be incurred in connection 

with any suits or appeals filed by or against or decrees obtained by 
the said bank or for rcalising any amounts due to it, provided that if 
the expenditure in respect of each such suit or appcal or decrec or 
proceeding is in excess of Rs. 250 the permission in writing of the 

Reserve Bank of India shall be obtained before it is incurred ; and 
( v ) any expenditure or any other item in so far as it is in the opinion of 

the banking company necessary for carrying on the day - to - day 
administration of the banking company, provided that where the total 
expenditure on any item in any calendar month exceeds the average 
monthly expenditure on account of that itcm during the six calendar 
months preceding the order of moratorium , or if no cxpenditure has 
been incurred on account of that item in the past exceeds a sum of 
Rs. 250 , the permission in writing of the Reserve Bank of India shall 

be obtained before the additional expenditure is incurred ; 
( b ) sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its immovable properties 
except in pursuance of any agreement entered into by it prior to the 2nd May 


1965 . 


3 . The Central Government hereby also directs that the Vettaikaranpudur 
Mahajana Bank Ltd ., Vettaikaranpudur , may , during the period of the moratorium 
granted to it, make the following further payments , namely , the amounts neces 
sary for repaying loans or advances granted against Government securities or 
other securities to the Vettaikaranpudur Mahajana Bank Ltd., Vettaikaranpudur, 
by the Reserve Bank of India or the State Bank of India or any of its sub 
sidiaries or by any other bank and remaining unpaid on the date on which the 
order of moratorium comes into force . 

4 . The Central Government hereby further directs that during the period of 
moratorium , the Vettaikaranpudur Mahajana Bank Ltd ., Vettaikaranpudur, shall 
be permitted to operate its accounts with the Reserve Bank of India or with 


1624 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8. 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 [PART II 

- - - - - - - 
any other bank for the purposes of making the payments aforesaid , provided that. 
nothing in this order shall be deemed to require the Reserve Bank of India or 
any other bank aforesaid to satisfy itself that the conditions imposed by this , 
order are being observed before any amounts are released in favour of the 
Vettaikaranpudur Mahajana Bank Ltd ., Vettaikaranpudur. 

5 . The Central Government hereby further directs that the Vettaikaranpudur" 
Mahajana Bank Ltd ., Vettaikaranpudur, may , during the period of moratorium , 
return any bills which have remained unrealised to the persons entitled to receive : 
them on a request being made in this behalf by such persons, if the bank has no 
right or title to , or interest in , such bills . 

6 . The Central Government hereby also directs that the Vettaikaranpudur 
Mahajana Bank Ltd ., Vettaikaranpudur, may release or deliver goods or securities 
which may be pledged, hypothecated or mortgaged or otherwise charged to it 
against any loan , cash credit or overdraft 
( i) in any case in which full payment towards all the amounts due from 

the borrower or borrowers, as the case may be, has been received by 

the bank , unconditionally ; and 
( il ) in any other case, to such an extent as may be necessary or possible , 

without reducing the proportions of the margins on the said goods . 
or securities below the stipulated proportions or the proportions which 
were maintained before the order of moratorium came into force , 
whichever may be higher. 

[No. F . 17 ( 7 ) -BC / 65 . ] 
R . K . SESHADRI, 
Director (Banking) . 


( Department of Company Affairs and Insurance ) 

INSURANCE 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1965 
$ . O . 1437 . - Whereas the Central Government in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 52A of the Ingurance Act, 1938 ( 4 of 1938 ) , 
appointed Shri M . J . Rao , as Administrator to manage the affairs of the Jupiter 
General Insurance Company Limited with its registered office at Bombay in the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department 
of Economic Affairs ) No. 107 (4 ) - INS /56 , dated the 13th March , 1956 . 

And whereas the said Shri M . J . Rao has been granted leave with effect from 
3rd May , 1965 to 10th July , 1985 . 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of 
section 52A of the said Act, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri C . C . 
Mody , General Manager , Jupiter General Insurance Co . Ltd ., Bombay as 
Administrator to manage the affairs of the said insurer during the absence on 
leave of Shri M . J . Rao, under the direction and control of the Controller of 
Insurance and directs that the said Administrator shall receive such remuneration 
payable out of the funds of the Jupiter General Insurance Company Limited as 
may be fixed by the Government. 

[No. F . 51 ( 12 ) -INS.I/ 65 . ) 


8 . 0 . 1438 . - Whereas the Central Government is exercise of the powers con 
ferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 52A of the Insurance Act , 1938 ( 4 of 1938 ) , 
appointed Shri M . J . Rao , as Administrator to manage the affairs of the Empire 
of India Life Assurance Company Limited with its registered office at Bombay 
in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance ( Depart 
ment of Economic Affairs ) No. 107 ( 4 ) - INS /56, dated the 13th March , 1956 . 

And whereas the said Shri M . J . Rao has been granted leave with effect from 
3rd May 1985 to 10th July 1965 . 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of 
section 52A of the said Act, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri C . C . 
Mody , General Manager, Jupiter General Insurance Company Limited , Bombay 
as Administrator to manage the affairs of the Empire of India Life Assurance 
Company Ltd . during the absence on leave of Shri M . J. Rao, under the direction 
and control of the Controller of Insurance and directs that the said Administrator 


- - - 


w 


. . 


8 , . 


/ V . 


A 


18 , 


1625 


shall receive such remuneration payable out of the funds of Empire of India Life 
Assurance Company Limited as may be fixed by the Government. 

( No. F . 51 ( 12 ) INS. I/ 65 . ] 
S . S . SHARMA , Under Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1965 
S . O . 1489 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section : 


it in that behalf , the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the following 
further amendments in the Schedule appended to its Notification S .O . 1619 ( NO . 
26 - Incometax , dated 7th May 1964 ) dated 16th May 1964 , namely : 

In the said Schedule against Patna - B Range . Bhagalpur Range and Ranchi. 
Range , under column 2 , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
Patna- B 

1. Special Investigation Circle, Patna. 
2 . Special Circle , Patna. 
3 . Salaries Circle , Patna . 
4 . Gaya Circle , Gaya. 
5 . Special Estate Duty -cum - Income- tax 

Circle, Patna. 
Bhagalpur . 

1. Bhagalpur Circle, Bhagalpur. 
2 . Santhal Pargana Circle , Deoghar. 

3 . Monghyr Circle, Monghyr. 
Ranchi, 

1 . Ranchi Palamau Circle , Ranchi. 
2 . Ranchi Special Circle , Ranchi. 
3 . Ranchi Special Estate Duty -cum - Income- - 

tax Circle , Ranchi. 
4 . Salaries Circle , Ranchi. 
5 . Palamau Circle, Daltonganj. 
6 . Ranchi Circle , Ranchi. 
7 . Hazaribagh Circle , Hazaribagh . 


This notification shall take effect from 14th May , 1966. 

Explanatory Note 
The amendments have become necessary on account of re -organisation of the 
above ranges in the Commissioner s charge . 

( The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clarificatory ) . 

[No. 35 ( F . No . 50 /54 /65-ITJ).] 


CENTRAL BOARD OF EXCISE & CUSTOMS 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 8th May 1965 
S . O . 1440 , - In pursuance of clause ( d ) of section 152 of the Customs Act, 1962 
(52 of 1962 ) , read with notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Finance (Department of Revenue and Company Law ) No. 41 / F , No. 21/ 10 / 62 
Cus. IV , dated the 21st March , 1964 , the Central Board of Excise and Customs 
hereby empowers the Preventive Inspectors of Customs at Marmagoa Custom 
House to exercise the powers of an Assistant Collector of Customs to sanction , 
drawback in respect of personal effects of passengers to the extent specified in 
the said notification . 

[No. 57 / F . No. 21/ 10 / 62 -Cuş. IV (Pt. ). ] . 

M . PANCHAPPA , Secy . . 


- -- - 


1626 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 / VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 Part II 

- - - 

= = = = 
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 27th April 1965 
S . O . 1441, - Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that control of 
inter - state trade and commerce in Eau -de - Cologne is necessary in the public 
interest ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Spiri 
tuous Preparations ( Inter - State Trade and Commerce ) Control Act, 1955 ( 39 of 
1955 ), the Central Government hereby declares Eau - de -Cologne to be a spirituous 
preparation within the meaning of that Act . 

[No. F . 27 ( 3 ) - Com (Genl) / 83 .] 
New Delhi, the 29th April 1965 
S . O . 1442. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 13 of the Spirituous 
Preparations ( Inter - State Trade and Commerce ) Control Act, 1955 (39 of 1955 ) , 
the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry S . R . O . 2777 - A , dated the 30th August 1957, namely : 

In the said Notification , for item 2 , the following item shall be substituted , 
namely : 
" 2 . Other medicinal preparations containing alcohol falling under clauses 

( a ) and ( b ) of entry ( i) in column 2 against item No. 1 and under 
entry ( 1) in column 2 against item No. 2 in the Schedule to the 
Medicinal and Toilet Preparations ( Excise Duties ) Act, 1955 as 
amended by the Finance Act, 1964" . 

[No. F . 27( 5 ) - Com (Genl) / 64. ] 
M . L . GUPTA , Under Secy. 


( Import Trade Control) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 29th April , 1965 . 
S . O . 1443 / IECA / 3 -4A / 3 / 64. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 
- 3 and 4A of the Imports and Exports ( Control ) Act, 1947 ( 18 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following Order further to amend the Imports 
( Control) Order , 1955, namely : - - 

1 . This Order may be called the Imports (Control) Second Amendment Order, 
1965 . 
2 . In the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 
(i) in sub - clause ( 2 ) of clause 10B , the words, figures and letters " subject 

to the provisions of clausė 10C " shall be inserted at the beginning ; 
(ii) after clause 10B , as so amended , the following clause shall be inserted, 

namely : 
" 10C . Power to make directions for the sale of imported goods in certain 

cases. 
( 1 ) Where, on the importation of any goods or at any time thereafter , the 
Chief Controller of Imports and exports is satisfied , after giving a reasonable 
opportunity to the licensee of being heard in the matter , that such goods cannot 
be utilised for the purpose for which they were imported he may , by order , direct 
the licensee or any other person having possession or control of such goods to sell 
such goods to such person , within such time, and at such price , as may be specifi 
ed in the direction . 


gate of the landed cost of the goods, clearing transportation charges and such 
other incidental charges incurred in relation thereto as are considered reasonable 
in the circumstances of the case by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , 

( 3 ) The licensce or the person to whom any direction has been made under 
sub - clause ( 1 ) shall be bound to comply with such direction ," . 

[No. 4 /65.] 
P . SABANAYAGAM , 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


SEC, 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


1627 " 


MINISTRY OF STEEL AND MINES 
(Department of Mines and Metals ) 

ERRATA 

New Delhi, the 26th April 1965 
$ . O . 1444 . - - In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India , 
Ministry of Steel and Mines , Department of Mines and Metals , No. S . O . 379 - B , 
dated the 22nd January . 1965 , published at pages 77B -77C of the Gazette of India , 
Extraordinary , Part II, Section 3 ( ii ) , dated the 30th January, 1965 , 

1. under the heading “ Deshergarh Block B " , against serial No. 7, for " Anand - - 
pur" read " Anandapur" ; and 
2. under the heading " Boundary description " 

(a ) in the third paragraph , for " Anandpur" read “ Anandapur” ; 
(b ) in the fourth paragraph , 
( i) for “ Anandpur, Ishwarda , Rajpur" read " Anandapur, Iswarda , Raj 

pura " ; 
( ii ) for “ Balrampur" read. " Balarampur " . 

[ No . C2 -24 ( 1) / 81.] 
S . O . 1445 .- - In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India , 
Ministry of Steel and Mines , Department of Mincs and Metals , No . S . O . 379 - C , 
dated the 22nd January , 1965 , published at pages 77C - 77D of the Gazette of India , 
Extraordinary , Part II, Section 3 ( ii ) , dated the 30th January , 1905 , — 

(a ) under the heading " Deshergarh Block C " 

( i) against serial No. 9, for " Inaganpur " read “ Inganpur " ; 
(ii) against serial No. 25 , in the column under the heading " Remarks" for 

" Full” , read " Part " : 
( iii ) against serial No. 28 , under the heading " Remarks" insert " Full" ; 
( iv ) against scrial No. 29, under the heading " Remarks" , for " Part" read 

" Full" ; and 
(b ) under the heading " Boundary description " , in paragraph 5 , for 
" Pardiha" read " Paradiha " . 

[C2 - 24 ( 1 ) /61. ] 


S . O . 1446 . - In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India , 
Ministry of Steel and Mines, Department of Mines and Metals, No. S .O . 379 - A , 
dated the 22nd January , 1965 , published at pages 77A - 77B of Part II, Section 3 ( ii ) , 
of the Gazette of India , Extraordinary , dated the 30th January , 1965, 

(a ) under the heading " Deshergarh Block A " 

(i ) against serial No. 1, for "Marsamuda " read " Narsamuda ", 
( ii) against serial No. 17 — for " Kutilapur . . . . . . . . 58 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


(b ) under the heading " Boundary description " , in the second paragraph , 
for " Aluthive" read " Aluthiye " . 

(No. C2 -24 ( 1 ) 761.) " 
K . SUBRAHMANYAN , Under Secy , 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 27th April 1965 
$ . 0 . 1447. — Inpursuance of clause ( 1) of section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act , 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) , and clauses ( i) and ( k ) 
of rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1937 , the Central Govern -- 
ment hereby fixes with effect from the date of publication of this notification , 


- 1628 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18, 1887 


PART II 


the charges for Agmark labels to be affixed to packages of Chilli powder , Tur 
meric powder and Coriander powder at 2 paise ( two paise only ) for every such 
package of 10 kilograms. 

[No. F . 17 - 30 / 64 - A .M .] 


S . O . 1448. - - In pursuance of clause ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937) and clauses ( 1 ) and ( k ) of 
rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules , 1937, and in supersession of 
- the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agri . 
culture (Department of Agriculture ) No. S . O . 3607, dated the 22nd November, 
1962, the Central Government hereby flxes, with effect from the date of publica 
tion of this notification , the charges for Agmark labels to be affixed on the con 
tainers of Chillies at Rs. 0. 15 Paise per pack of 25 Kg. or part thereof . 

[No. F . 17 - 7 /64- AM . ] 


S . O . 1449. - In pursuance of clause ( f ) of section 3 of the Agrisultoral 
Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937) and clauses (i ) and ( k ) 
of rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1937, and in supersession 
of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agri 
culture (Department of Agriculture ) No. S . O . 3606 , dated the 22nd November , 
1962 the Central Government hereby fixes , with effect from the date of publica 
tion of this notification , the undermentioned charges for Agmark labels to be 
affixed on the containers of Black Pepper , pamely : 

(i) Rs. 0. 14 Paise per pack of 77 Kg. or part thereof, 
(ii ) Rs. 0.02 Paise for every additional weight of 5 Kg. or part thereof in 
excess of 77 Kg. 

[ No. F . 17 - 7 /64 -AM .] 


S . O . 1450. - - In pursuance of clause ( f ) of section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act , 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) and clauses ( 1) and ( k ) of 
rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1937 and in supersession of 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agri 
culture ( Department of Agriculture ) No. S . O . 3605 dated the 22nd November , 
1962, the Central Government hereby fixes, with effect from the date of publica 
tion of this notification , the undermentioned charges for Agmark labels to be 
affixed on the containers of cardamoms, graded under Agmark , namely : 


(1 ) Rs. 0 . 15 Paise per pack upto 13 Kg. (nett ). 
( ii) Rs. 0 .30 Paise per pack above 13 Kg. and upto 26 Kg. (nett) . 
(ili ) Rs. 0 .62 Paise per pack above 26 Kg, and upto 51 Kg. ( nett ). 

[No. F . 17- 7 /64 - A , M .] 
New Delhi, the 1st May 1965 
S . O . 1451. - -- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Agricultural 
Producę (Grading and Marketing ) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937) , the Central Government 
hereby declares that the provisions of the said Act shall apply to the following 
articles, namely : 

1. Gram ( Cicer arietinum ) . 
2. Jowar (Sorghum vulgare ) . 
3. Maize (Zea mays). 
4 . Barley ( Hordeum vulgare ), 
5 . Ragi (Eleusio coracana ). 


( No. F . 17 - 28 / 64 - AM .] 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1965 
S . O . 1452 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 11, 
clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 14 and sub - rule ( I) of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Service (Classification Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President here 
by makes the following further amendment in the notification of the Government 


SEC, 3( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


1629 


- - 


- - 


of India in the late Ministry of Agriculture No. S . R . O . 634 - A dated the 28th 
February , 1957, namely :--- 
In the Schedule to the said notification , 
( i) In Part 1 - General Central Service , Class III, under the sub -heading 

" Directorate of Marketing and Inspection " for the entries in columns 
2 , 3 , 4 , and 5 against the entry " All posts " in column 1 , the following 
entries shall respectively be substituted, namely : 


3 


4 


" Deputy Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser 


Deputy Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser 


All 


Agricultural Marketing 

Adviser " 


[No. F . 2 - 10 / 65 -AM . ] 
SANTOKH SINGH , Under Secy . 


(Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 27th April 1965 
$ . 0 , 1453. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Department of 
Agriculture ) No. S . O . 526 dated the 3rd February, 1964 , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the powers conferred on it by section 3 of the said Act to 
make orders providing for the matters specified in clauses ( a ) , ( d ) , ( e ) , ( f ) , (h ) , 
( 1) and ( j) of sub - section ( 2 ) of that section shall, in relation to cotton , be 
exercisable, also by the Government of the State of Punjab within that State. 


[No. 1 - 11 / 63 -Econ .Py.) 
A . C. JAIN , Under Secy. 


(Department of Agriculture ) 
Indian Council of Agricultural Research 

New Delhi, the 23rd April , 1965 . 


S . O . 1454 - Io pursuance of the provisions of Rules 2264) of the Indian Ceatral Coconut Committee Rules , 1945 , the Central Government hereby 


ending 31st March, 1964 


Receipts and Payments Account of the Indian Central Coconut Committee for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 1964 

PART I (Regular ) 


- 


- - 


- 


-- 


- 


- -- ---- 


- 


- 


Receipts 


Payments 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs . 


Administration 


To Opening Balance 
To Advances recoverable 


. 
. 


, 


15 ,09 , 295 
1. 34 , 901 


16 , 44 : 196 
8 , 29 , 133 


Cess Collections on copra 
Other Receipts , 
Receipts from publications 

1. Subscription to Bulletin 
2 . Subscription to Journal 
3 . Cost of Handbook . . 
4 . Sale of Monograph . 

Postage on publications 
6 . Advertisement in Bulletin , 


3 ,156 

460 
692 
1 ,677 

257 
1 , 888 


20 , 124 
65,889 
12 ,110 
1 , 898 
1 ,385 
9 ,290 
2 , 155 


T . A . 


Revenue Expenditurc 

Pay of officers 
Pay of staff , 
D . A . 
House Rent Allowance . 
Medical Attendance Fees 
Children s Educational Allowance 
L . S . & P . Contribution . 
I. C , Coc . C . P . F . Contribution 
P . C . & R 
Postage , telegramsand telephone 
Stationery and Forms 
Printing 
Books and Periodicals . . 
Office Contingencies 
Audit Fees . . 
Conveyance Advance . 


5 , 118 


7, 427 
14, 149 


Miscellaneous Receipts . 
Conveyance advance recovery 
Central Coconut Research Station , Kasaragod 

I . Farm Produce . . . . 
2 . Rent 
3 . Miscellaneous receipts 
4 . Van and cart hire charges 
5 . Conveyance adyance recovery 


4 , 974 

654 
6 ,817 
3,791 
5 ,257 
1,616 
13 ,681 
1 , 320 

175 
- 


85 ,329 
1 ,963 
2 ,480 

79 
215 


11 


1, 56 , 554 


Receipts from the scheme for procurement and supply 

of seed coconuts to States . . . . 


1 ,030 


200 


570 


SEC 
. 
. 
. 


Central Coconut Research Station , Kayangulamı 

I . Farm Produce , 
2 . Rent . , 
3 . Conveyance advance recovery 
4 Miscellaneous receipts . . 


1 ,600 
6 ,046 


Capital Expenditure 

Buildings Residential & Non - Residential 
Furniture & Office equipment 

T .A . of non -official members . . 
Publicity and Propaganda 

Bulletin 
36 , 170 Bournal 

Photographic Materials i 


30 ,892 
1,627 

40 
3 .611 


. 


. 


22, 436 


2 , 569 


166 


1.64,200 


Adoance payable 
Indian Central Cosount Committee Provident 

Fund Subscription of Smat. Malathy and Dr. Ninan 


320 


Pamphiets 
Exhibition 


2 , 804 

766 
1 ,279 

730 


Advertisement 


30 ,750 


CentralCoconut Research Station , Kasaragod . 
Revenue Expenditure 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
8 
, 
. 


Pay of officers 
Pay of staff 
D . A . 
Medical Attendance Fees 
TA 
Children s Educational Allowance 
L . S . & P . contribution 
1. C . Coc . C . P . F . contribution 
P . C . & R . 
Cultivation Charges 
Manures & Chemicals 
Maintenance of Cattle 
Miscellaneous Expenses 
Apparatus and Materials 
Books and Periodicala 
Office Contingencies 
Photographic Materials 
Conveyance advance 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


28 ,077 
62 , 785 
8 ,576 

90 
7 , 821 
1 ,810 
1 ,366 
5 . 768 
2 ,759 
11 , 433 
9 , 152 
5 ,543 
29 , 282 
9,917 

2 ,516 
( 16 ,432 

294 
320 


2 ,03, 935 


111 


1632 


Receipts 


Payments 


Rs. 


Rs . 


Rs. 


Scheme for procurement and supply of Seed Coconuts 10 
States 


Pay of staff 
DA 
T . A . 
Children s Educational Allowance 
I. C , Coc. C . P . F . Contribution 
Packing & Transport 
Railway freight 
Cost of Gunny bags 
Cost of Nuts 
Harvesting and collection 
Miscellaneous 


9 , 188 
1 ,612 
3 , 985 
605 

560 
13 ,614 
69 ,042 

14 ,955 
1 , 57 ,295 

7 ,555 
3 , 286 


2,81,697 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY8,1965/VAISAKHA18,1887 


Harmme Spraying Scheme 

Pay of staff 
DA 
TA 
Children s Educational Allowance 
I. C , Coc, C . P . F . Contribution 
Apparatus & Materials 
Miscellaneous 


3 , 266 
461 
132 


....... 


400 


313 

69 
2 , 477 


7 , 118 


5413 


6 ,653 


Capital Expenditure 
Lay out 
Buildings Residential & Non -Residential. 
Farm Implements , Carts & Vans 
Furniture & office equipment 
Laboratory equipment 
Meteorological observatory 


399 
1 ,694 
1 , 121 
364 


15 ,644 


(PARTII 


BBQ 
, 
8 
( 
II 
) 
] 


T . A . 


Central Coconut Research Station , Kayangulom 
Reverse Expenditure 

Pay of Officers 
Pay of staff 
DA 
Medical attendance fees : 
Childrea s Educational Adowance 
L . S . & P . Contribution 
1.C . Coc, C . P . F . Contribution 
PCR. 
Cultivation Charges 
Manures & Chemicals . 
Miscellaneous Expenses , 
Apparatus & Materials , 
Books & Periodicals 
Office Contingencies . 
Photographic Materials 


27, 593 
71 , 394 
9 ,371 

476 
8 ,591 
1 ,470 

471 
5 , 9II 
1 ,330 
10 ,974 
15 , 123 
37 ,459 
10 ,336 
3 , 425 
9 , 257 

314 


2 , 13 ,495 


Capital Expenditure 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
MAY 
8 
, 
1985 
/ 
VAISAKHA 
18 
, 
1887 


614 
641 


841 


1 , 827 
9 ,248 

325 


Lay out 
Buildings _ Residential and Non - Residential 
Farm Implements , Carts & Vans 
Furniture & Office Equipment 
Laboratory Equipment 
Meteorologicalobservatory 
Coconut Fertiliser Demonstration Scheme . 
Grants - in -aid Schemes Miscellaneous 
I . Sabeme for maintenance of representative 

varieties of coconuts in Assam 
2 , Scheme for laying out simple manurial trials 

in coconut cultivators gardens 
(1) Madras 


13 ,496 
1 , 243 


1 , 209 


1 , 300 


(ii ) Mysore 


2 ,400 


6, 509 


1633 


1634 


Receipts 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Refund of unspent balance of Central Grant 

( unspent balance of Second Five Year Plan 

grant received from the CF. T . R . I. , Mysore ) . 
Committed Schemes transfer 
Central Cocount Research Station Kasaragod 

Suspense Account 


7 ,212 
2 ,62, 977 


1 


18 ,000 

50 
1 ,630 
250 


Advances recoverable 

Advance for P . D . account 
Kayangulam and Kasaragod 
Caution Money Deposit 
Festival avyance 
Office Contingent advance 
Advance for P . D , account of the Assistants , 

Badagara & Trichur 
Advance pay to Shri P . V . Kunjan 
Advance drawn by the Assistant, Seednut 

Procurement Scheme, Badagara from his 
Advance Pay to Shri M . V . George 
Imprest - office of the I.C . Coc. C . 


12 , 500 

45 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY8,1965/VAISAKHA18,1887 


207 
120 


Do, 


C .CRS, Kasaragaod 


1, 500 
1,500 


36 ,552 


Closing Balance 

Balance as per cash book , 


. 


13 , 77 , 400 


. 


26,22,345 


Total . . 

Reconciliation 
Balance in the P . D , account of: 

I . Secretary , I . C .Coc. C ., Ernakulam 
2 . Director, C . C . R . S ., Kasaragod . 
3 . Director, C . C .R . S ., Kayangulam 

Assistant, S . P . S ., Badagara 
5 . Assistant, S . P . S ., Trichur . . 
Add the amount remitted on 20 - 3 - 1964 but not 

taken into account in the Treasury Accounts . 


26 ,22 ,345 

Total , 
Statement as e * 31-3 -1964 

17 ,24,413 Balance as per cash book 

14 ,813 Cheque issued but not encashed (office ) 
12,405 Cheque issoked but not encashed Badagara ) 
7 , 815 Balance as per P . L . 480 cash book 
2 ,022 Balance as per III Plan cash book 


13 ,77 ,400 
3 , 09 ,657 

7 , 575 
12 , 249 
24 ,624 


37 


[PARTII 


Total 


. 


. 


17,61,505 


Total 


, 


. 


17,61,505 


Receipt and Payments Account of the Indian Central Coconut Compittee for the Financial Year ended 31st March , 1964 

PART I (Committed ) 


- 


Receipts 


Payments 


. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


..G 


Transfer from Part I Regular 


2 ,62, 977 


Administration 


Office of the Indian Central Coconut Committee 

Conveyance Advance recovery 
Central Coconut Research Station , Kasarago 

Conveyance Advance recovery 


365 


641 


22 , 141 
3 ,280 
899 
851 
605 
630 
1 ,440 


.. 


29 ,846 


Pay of staff , 
D . A . . . 
HRA. 
TA 
Medical Attendance Fees 
Children s Educational Allowance 

I.CCoc .CP. F . contribution . 
Compilation and Analysis of Data 

Pay of officer . 
Pay of staff , . 
HRA . 
TA 
LS. & P . Contribution . 
I.C . Coc , C . P . F . contribution 


A:M.8,. 


D . A . 


4 , 795 
8 ,529 
1 ,648 

315 
485 

II 
991 


. 


16 , 774 


. 


Central Coconut Research Station , Kasargod 

Pay of staff . . 
DA 
Medical Attendance Fees 
Τ . Α . 
Children s Educational Allowance 
I. C . Coc. C . P . F . contribution 
Apparatus & Materials 
Books and Periodicals 
Office Contingencies 
Conveyance advance 


61,477 
8 , 181 

210 
2 ,685 


-.18, 


720 


3 ,485 


108 


70 
825 
170 


£77,931 


1635 


Recepts 


Payments 


i. 


Rs. 


Rs . 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Central Coconut Research Station , Kayangulam 

Pay of officers 
Pay of stuff . . 


DA , 


11 ,275 
59 , 975 
9 , 245 
1 ,351 

760 
4 .773 

625 


88 ,004 


TA 
Children s Educational Allowance 
I. C . Coc, C . P . F . Contribution . 

Miscellaneous Expenses 
Grant-in -oid Schemes 

Regional Coconut Research Station , Madras . 
Miscellaneous Schemes 
1. Scheme for the control of Anabe Roga of coco 

out in Mysore 
2. Disease Investigation Scheme in Andhra Pra 
desb . 

. . . . . 


18,368 


- 


7, 160 


im.....8.... 


25 , 900 


51, 428 


Total 


. 


, 


2 ,63 ,983 


Total 


. 


. 


2,63.983 


18. 


Recripts and Payments Account of the Indian Central Coconut Committee for the financial Year ended 31st March , 1964 

PART II ( Third Five Year Plan ) 


Receipts 


Payments 


: 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


. 


:. 


To opening balance . . . . . 
To Contribution from Central Government towards 

Grant . . . . . . . 


9 ,051 Central Coconut Research Station , Kasaragod 

Revenue Expenditure 

Pay of staff . . . 
3 ,00 ,000 D .A . . 

. . . 
T . A . 
I.C . Coc. C . P . F . Contrbution 
Office contingencies 


. 


1 , 109 
254 


. 


19 
148 
341 


EOF. 


1 ,871 


Capital Expenditure 

Lay out 
Farm Implements , Carts and Vans 


39,082 

12€ 


39 , 200 


2 , 160 


i..an8, 


380 


Rovertue Expenditure 

Pay of staff , 
D . A . . 

. 
T . A . 
I.C .Coc. CP. F . Contribution : 
Cultivation charges 
Manures and Chemicals . 
Miscellaneous Expenses 
Office contingencies 
Apparatus & Materials , . 


142 
81 - 


773 


2 , 662 
1 ,203 


980 


Capital Expenditure 

Farm Implements , Carts and Vans . 

Laboratory equipment , . 
Grant-in - aid Schemes 


NAISAKHA18,1887 


. 


3 , 254 
3 , 951 


7 ,205 


47, 200 


I. R . C . R . S . , Mysore . 
II, Piot schemes for the correct estimation of 

area and yield of coconuts and acrecanuts 


1637 


1628 


ล่างห์ 


1 . Kerala 
2 . Madras 
3 . Mysore 

Assam 


25 ,036 
16 ,000 
28 ,590 
31,786 
17 ,770 
16 ,000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Andhra Pradesh 

Orissa 
8 . West Bengal 


27 ,264 


1,52, 146 


Micelarneous Schemes. 


Scheme of Research on artificial culturing of 

cocount embryos in Kerala State 
Refund of unspent balance of Central Grant 

received during the year 1962 -63 


8 , 300 


9 , 051 


Closing Balance 


24 ,624 


TOTAL 


.. . 


- 


TOTAL _ 


I 


_ _ 


3 ,09,051 


32092051 


TOTAL 


3 ,09,051 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY8,1965/VAISAKHA18,1887 


I 


(PARTII 


Receipts 121 Piynints A : 39 227 of th : Iitinn Central Coconut Connittee for the financial year ended 31st March , 1964. 

P .L . 480 Scheme 


SEG,3(ii)] 


Receipts 


Payments 


Rs. 


Amount received from the American Embassy , 

New Delhi. 


Rs. 
92 ,041 Capital Expenditure 

Equipments 


27 , 573 


Revenue Expenditure 
Pay of officers 
Pay of staff 


3 , 974 
4 ,830 

939 


D . A . . 


. 


13 
I20 


T . A . . 


Other EstablishmentCharges 
Stationery and Forms . 
Children s Educational Allowance . 
I.C . Coc. C . P. F . Contribution 
Other contractual services 
Supplies and Materials 
Overhead charges 

Closing balance . . . 
92,041 

Sal- P . J. GREGORY , 

Secretary , 
I. C .Coc ,C ., Ernakulam . 


. 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


1 ,595 
1 , 154 

17 
8 ,222 
1 ,355 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY8,1965/VAISAKHA18,1887 


22 ,219 
42,249 


Total . 


Total . 


92 ,041 


Sd 
Assistant, 
I.C .Coc . C ., Ernakulam . 


CERTIFICATE 
I have examined the foregoing Accounts of the Indian Central Coconut Committee, Ernakulam and otained all the information and explanations 
that I have required and subject to the observations and the Audit Report appended , I certify , as a result ofmy audit that in my opinion these accounts 
are properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Committee according to the best ofmy information and explana 
tions given to me and as shown by the books of the Committee . 
Trivandrum . 

sdl - T . N . KURIAKOS , 
16 - 1 - 1965. 

Accountant General, Kerala . 


1639 


1640 


. 


GA, 


! 


. 


(10 ) 


Audit Report on the Accounts of the Indian Central CoconutCommittee for the year 1963-64 

The main source of income of the Committee is the amount it receives from the Government of India , as the net proceeds of the cess levied under 
Secion (3 ) of the Indian Coconut Committee Act, 1944 . A sum of Rs. 8 . 29 lakhs was received by the Committee from this source during 1963 -64 . 
The Committee also received grants amounting to Rs. 3 lakhs from Government of India for the Coconut Research Schemes under the Third Five 
Year Plan and Rs. 0 . 92 lakh from the American Embassy , New Delhi under P .L . 480 Schemes . 

2 . The Schemes undertaken by the Committee include the ranning of two Research Stations, in Kerala State and a scheme for the procurement 
and supply of seed coconuts to State Governments. In addition , grants - in - aid are given to institutions and State Governments for schemes sponsored 
by them . The schemes undertaken by Government departments in .chude the running of Regional Research Stations, schemes for investigation and 
control of coconut diseases, pilot scheme for the correct estima: ion of area and yield of coconuts etc . 

A broad analysis of the receipts and payments of the Committee for the four years ending 1963 -64 is given below : 
Receipts 

S Payments. 
Particulars. 1960 -61 1961 -62 1962-63 1963- 64 Particulars 

1960 -61 1961 -62 1962 -63 1963 -64 
(Rupees in lakhs) 

(Rupees in lakhs) 
(2 ) (3 ) 
Opening Balance . . 

IO : 71 II 91 II 93 15 18 Administrative Expenditure . . 1 : 55 1 . 76 1. 83 I 94 
Advances recoverable 

0 . 74 

I 31 1 . 35 Research and other Schemes . 
Amount transferred to the Com 6 : 46 IO : 29 II . 78 8 . 29 1. Schemes undertaken by the 8 - 48 8 . 89 9 : 27 10 * 25 
mittee by the Govt. of India 

Committee 
representing the proceeds of 

2 . Grants-in - aid given to : 
coconut cass 
Grant from Govt. of India 7 . 64 3 : 21 3 . 30 3 . 00 (a ) Departments of State ] 
Governments . 

2 . 76 2 : 56 

2 .68 
Other Receipts . . . . 2. 25 2. 58 2058 2 :41 

6 ) Non -GoYt Institutions 0 : 07 0 : 05 0 . 05 0 08 

including those sponsored 

by State Governments , 
Other Miscellaneous Expendi 
ture . 

0 . 70 

0 .61 0 33 0 31 
Refund of balance of Grant 
recelved from Govt. of India 

1. 69 0 . 33 

0 . 16 
Advances recoverable . , . I OI I 31 I - 35 
Closing Balance . . . . 

II 91 II 93 15 . 18 14 44 
Total . , 27 - 80 29 . 00 30 . 90 30 . 23 

Total : 27 . 80 29 . 00 30 . 90 30 23 


I OI 


:MAE8, 


4 . 08 


7 


1 


0 37 


18,. 


11 


3 . The proper utilisation of grants - in - aid paid by the Committee is watched througti: 

(a ) audit certificates from the Accountants General in respect ofGovernment departments and other bodies , the audit of which has been entrusted 
to them and from professional auditors in other cases , regarding the utilisation of the grants - in - aid , and 

(b) grant- in - aid statements from State Goperament departmçats showing the sums allotted , actual expenditure incurred , outstanding liabit 
tics andlunspent balance, 


... 


It was observed that these audit certificates and grant- in - aid statements covering amounts of Rs. 6 . 90 lakhs and Rs. 5 . 97 lakhs respectivey were it 
due to the Committee (December 1964) in respect of grants- in - aid paid by it from 1957 - 58 to 1963-64 as shown in the Statements below : 

I. Audit certificates yet to be recewed 
Name of State 1957- 58 1958 -59 1959 -60 1960 -61 1961-62 1962 -63 1963 -64 

Remarks 
(Rupees in Lakhs) 
Andhra Pradesh 

0 * 40 O 54 

0 . 33 0 : 48 0 . 42 In respect of Schemes undertaken 
Assam . . 

0 : 09 
. 

0 . 14 0 : 09 

0 . 32 by the State Governments , the 
Kerala 

063 0 . 50 

0 : 08 issue of Audit Certificates is 
Maharashtra 

O 13 

0 . 18 0 . 02 pending mainly due to the 
Orissa . 

0 . 27 0 . 16 
. 

0 . 10 0 . 09 

delay on the part of the Govt. 
West Bengal 

0 . 03 0 . 02 o o 

0. 18 0 .27 departments in furishing 

O 12 
Madras. . 

statements of expenditure and 
Mysore . . 

0 . 78 other relevant information to 

the respective Accountants 
General 


O 09 


::: 


0 : 07 


0 19 


w...8, 


14 


9 


2 . Grand- in -vid statements still to be obtained from Government Departments . 
Name of State . 

Research Station 
Year Amount Year Amount Year Amount 

(Rupees in Lakhs) 
Kerala . . . . . 1960 - 61 0°12 1958 - 59 

I 09 1960 -61 and 0 . 51 
1960 -61 

1963 -64 
Andhra Pradesh 1958 - 59 0 . 24 1959 - 60 

1959 - 60 1 .64 
1960 -61 1960 - 61 

1963 -64 
Maharashtra . . . . 1959- 60 0 : 20 Nil 

1962 - 63 - 020 
1960 - 61 

1963- 64 
West Bengal 

1963 -64 0 . 27 
Madras . . . : 1962 -63 

DII . .. 

1959 - 60 

0 : 42 
1960 -6I 
1962 -63 

1963- 64 
Mysore . . . . . 1963-64 0. 47 . . . . 1962-63 O 47 

1963 -64 
Effective steps are called for to ensure that the Audit Certificates and grants - in - aid statements are received promptly . 

sal. T . N . KURIAKOS, 
Accomtant General, Kerala. 
[No. 7 (100 )/65 - Com . I.] 
J. S. UPPAL ,Under Secy . 


O II 


- 


18, 


1641 


1612 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , , , NAISAKHA 18 , . 


(PART II 


- 


- 


I 


- 


( Department of Agriculturo) 
( Indian Council of Agricultural Research ) 

New Delhi, the 27th April 1965 
S . O . 1453 . In pursuance of Sub -Sections (h ) , ( i ) , ( k ) , ( 1) , ( m ) and ( 1 ) of 
Section 4 of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act 1946 ( 9 of 1946 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoint the following persons as members of the Indian 
Central Oilseeds Committee, to represent the interests shown against each , for 
the period ending the 30th September , 1985 or till the re -organisation of the 
Committee , whichever is earlier : 


S , No. 


Name of person 


Sub - Section of section 4 of the 
Indian Oils Seods Committee 
Act and interest represented 


( h ) representing Co -ope 

rative movement. 


(1 ) representing village 

oilseeds crushing indus - + 
try . 

Do 


1. Shri Subramaniya Gounder , M . L . A ., 

President, Co -operative Marketing 
Society , Tiruchengode, Salem Distt ., 

Madras . 
2 . Shrimati Pratima Bose , Chairman , West 

Bengal Khadi & Village Industries 

Board , 14 Princep Street, Calcutta - 13 . 
3. Shri Sirasappa Ijari, M .L . A ., Member of 

Khadi Board , Harpanahalli, Bellary 

District. 
4 Swami Ramanand Tirth , Vice - Chairman , 

Maharashtra State Khadi & Village 

Industries Board , Şeva Niketan , Begum 

pet, Hyderabad , 
5 . Dr. A . C . Chhatrapati , C / The Vanas 

pati Manufacturers Association of 
India , 5th Floor , India House . Fort St., 
Bombay . 
Shri C . V . Mariwala , 281 -87, Narshi 
natha Street, Bombay . 
Shri Ramdas Kilachand , 45 -47, Appolo 
Street, Bombay. 


Do 


( k ) representing the van 

aspati industry . 


(1 ) representing power oil 

geed crushing Industry . 
( m ) representing exporters 

of ollseeds and oilseeds 
products . 
( r ) representing oilseeds 
trade associations. 

Do 


Shri E . R . Mahajani, Lakshmi Oil Mills, 

Akola . 
9 . Shri Tokarshilalfi Kapadia , Andhra Pra 

desh Grain & Seeds Merchants Agso 

clation , Hyderabad . 
10 . Shri Vishan Swarup Aggarwal, 29 - A , Sir 

Hari Ram Goenka Street, Calcutta . 
11. Shri Devji Rattansey, 23 Chinch Bunder , 

Bombay . 


Do 


Do 


(No . 8 - 12 /65 -Com . III. ] 


S . O . 1456 . – Under Section 4 ( x ) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 ( 14 of 
1923 ) , the Central Government are pleased to nominate _ the following persons 
to be members of the Indian Central Cotton Committee , Bombay , upto the 30th 
September , 1965 , or upto the finalisation of the re - organisation proposals of the 
Committee , whichever is earlier : 

1. Shri Iqbal Singh , M .P ., Abohar, District Ferozepur, 
Shri P . S . Patil, M .P ., Chikhli, District Buldana . 

[No. 1 -3 / 65 -Com . III.] 
N . K . DUTTA , Under Secy . 


SEO , 3 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 / VAISAKHA 18, 1887 


1643 


= 


= 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 26th April 1965 
S . O . 1457 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clausc ( p ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 6 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 ( 15 of 1908 ) , the following rules , which 
the Central Government proposes to make further to amend the Indian Port 
Health Rules, 1955 , published with the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Health No. S . R . O . 587 dated the 27th February , 1956 , are hereby 
published , as required by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 6 of the said Act , for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby 
given that the said rules will be taken into consideration on or after 26th July 
1965 . 

2 . Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person in 
respect of the said rules before the date specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendment 
1 . These Rules may be called the Indian Port Health (Amendment ) Rules, 
1965. 

2 . In the Indian Port Health Rules, 1955 , in sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 57 , in clause 
( ii ) of the Note , for the words " and Visakhapatnam " , the words “ Visakhapatnam 
and Mandapam Camp / Dhanushkodl" shall be substituted . 

[ No. F. 33 -1 / 64 - IH .) 
New Delhi, the 27th April 1965 
S . O . 1458 , — In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 12 and 33 of the 
Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 ( 23 of 1940 ) , the Central Government, hereby 
makes the following rules further to amend the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules , 1945 , 


namely : 

1 . These rules may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics (Second Amendment) 
Rules , 1965. 
2 . In the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules , 1945 , in Schedule " A " : 
( 1 ) In Form 10 , after paragraph (2 ), the following paragraph shall be 

inserted , namely : 
“ ( 3 ) The licensee shall inform the Licensing Authority in writing in the 

event of any change in the constitution of the firm operating under 
the licence . Where any change in the constitution of the Arm 
takes place , the current licence shall be deemed to be valid for a 
maximum period of three months from the date on which the 
change takes place unless , in the meantime, a fresh licence has 
been taken from the Licensing Authority in the name of the firm 

with the changed constitution " . 
( 2 ) In Forms 20 and 21A , under the heading Conditions of Licence after 

item 4 , the following item shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( 5 ) The licensec shall inform the Licensing Authority in writing in the 

cvent of any change in the constitution of the firm cperating under 
the licence. Where any change in the constitution of the firm takes 
place, the current licence shall be deemed to be valid for a maxi 
mum period of three months from the date on which the change 
takes place unless , in the mcantime, a fresh licence has been taken 
from thc Licensing Authority in the name of the firm with the 

changed constitution ,” 
( 5 ) In Forms, 21 - B and 25 - B , under the heading Conditions of Licence , 

after itcm 5 , the following item shall be inserted at the end, namely : 
" (6 ) The licensee shall inform the Licensing Authority in writing in the 

event of any change in the constitution of the firm operating 
under the licence . Where any change in the constitution of the 
firm takes place , the current licence shall be deemed to be valid 
for a maximum period of three months from the date on which 
the change takes place unless, in the meantime, a fresh licence has . 


1644 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


PART 11 


- 


- 


been taken from the Licensing Authority in the name of the Arm 
with the changed constitution " . 


3, the following item shall be inserted , namely : 
" (4 ) The licensee shall inform the Licensing Authority in writing in the 

event of any change in the constitution of the firm operating 
under the licence . Where any change in the constitution of the 
firm takes place , the current licence shall be deemed to be valid 
for a maximum period of three months from the date on which 
the change takes place unless, in the meantime, a fresh licence 
has been taken from the Licensing Authority in the name of the 


(4 ) In Form 21, under the heading Conditions of Licence , after item 5 , the 

following item shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( 6 ) The Licensee shall inform the Licensing Authority in writing in 

the event of any change in the constitution of the firm operating 
under the licence . Where any change in the constitution of the 
firm takes place , the current licence shall be deemed to be valid 
for a maximum period of three months from the date on which 
the change takes place unless , in the meantime, a fresh licence 
has been taken from the Licensing Authority in the name of the 

Arm with the changed constitution ." 
( 6 ) In Forms 20 - B , 25 , 25 - A and 28 under the heading Conditions of 

Licence , after item 4 , the following item shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( 5 ) The licensee shall inform the Licensing Authority in writing in 

the event of any change in the constitution of the firm operating 
under the licence. Where any change in the constitution of firm 
takes place , the current licence shall be deemed to be valid for 
a maximum period of three months from the date on which the 
change takes place unless , in the meantime, a fresh licence has 
been taken from the Licensing Authority in the name of the Arm 

with the changed constitution ." 
( 7 ) In Form 28 - A , under the heading Conditions of Licence, after item 3 , 

the following item shall be inserted , namely : 
" (4 ) The licensee shall inform the Licensing Authority in writing in the 

event of any change in the constitution of the firm operating under 
the licence. Where any change in the constitution of the Arm 
takes place, the current licence shall be deemed to be valid for a 
maximum period of three months from the date on which the 
change takes place unless, in the meantime, a fresh licence has 
been taken from the Licensing Authority in the name of the firm 
with the changed constitution " . 

[No. F . 1 - 22 / 63 - D . ] 
A . N . VARMA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 27th April 1965 
S . O . 1489.- Whereas , the Central Government have , in pursuance of the 
provisions of clause (b ) of section 3 of the Pharmacy Act, 1948 ( 8 of 1948 ) , 
nominated the following persons to be members of the Pharmacy Council of 
India with effect from 27th April , 1963 ; 
( 1 ) Shri K . C . Chatterjee, Ph .C ., D .B . A . (G . B .) D . P . A . ( G . B . ) , M / s 

Boots Pure Drugs Co . , ( India ) Ltd . , Bombay - 22 . 
( 2 ) Dr. K . K . Kaishth , D . Pharm (Hons.) , B .Sc., Ph . D ., A . P . I. C ., Supperin 

tendent, Pharmacy Post-graduate Medical College, Chandigarh . 
( 3 ) Miss N , S . Gayatondey , B . Sc., (Hons.), M . Sc. ( Tub . ) , Chief Pharmacist. 

Nair Hospital, Bombay . 
(4 ) Shri M . L . Shroff, Head of Department of Pharmacy , Jadavpur Uni 

versity , Calcutta . 
(5 ) Dr. R . B . Arora, Prof. of Pharmacology , All -Indla Institute of Medical 

Sciences, New Delhi. 


Sec. 3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 / VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


1645 


2 . Now , therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 3 of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby makes the following amendments in the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Health No. F . 7 - 23 / 59 - D , 
dated the 21st December , 1959, namely : 

In the said notification , under the heading " Member nominated by Central 
Government under clause (b ) " , for the existing entries against serial "Nos. 1 to 
4 , the following entries shall respectively be substituted , namely : 
( 1 ) Dr. K . K . Kaishth , B . Pharm . (Hons.), B . Sc., Ph . D ., A . P . I. C ., Superin 

tendent, Pharmacy Post- graduate Medical College, Chandigarh , 
( 2 ) Miss N . S . Gayatondey , B .Sc. (Hons.), M . Sc . ( Tub.) , Chief Pharmacist, 

Nair Hospital, Bombay . 
( 3 ) Prof. M . L . Shroff, Head of Department of Pharmacy , Jadavpur Unt 

versity , Calcutta . 
(4 ) Dr. R . B . Arora, Prof. of Pharmacology , All India Institute of Medical 

Sciences, New Delhi. 


Shri K , C . Chatterjee , appearing at serial No . 6 shall continue to be a member 
of the Council for a further period of five years with effect from the 21st Decem 
ber , 1964, or until his successor is nominated , whichever is longer . 


[No. F . 6 - 2 / 64 -MPT( Pt. II ) . ] 


B . B . L . BHARADWAJ, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 
New Delhi, the 22nd April 1965 


S . O . 1460 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 11 
of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 ( 44 of 1958 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that at the port of Bedi Bunder , Jamnagar , the whole of the business of 
the shipping office shall be conducted at the office of the Surveyor - in - Charge , 
Mercantile Marine Department, Bedi Bunder , Jamnagar , and for the purposes 
of sub - section ( 4 ) of the said section , the Central Government further directs 
that the said business at that port shall be committed to the said Surveyor- in 
Charge. 


2 . This notification shall be deemed to have come into effect on the 1st Decem 
ber , 1963. 


[No. F . 24 - MA ( 7 ) / 83 . ] 


D . S . NIM , Dy . Secy. 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 


(Railway Board ) 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1965 


S . O . 1461. In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses ( 1 ) and ( g ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 47 of the Indian Railways Act, 1890 ( 9 of 1890 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following amendment to the rules published under 


1646 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 / VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


[PART II 


the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Railways (Railway 
Board ) No. TCIII / 3036 / 58 , dated the 28th August, 1958 , namely : 
In the said rules, rule 1 shall be lettered as clause ( a ) thereof and 
( i ) in clause ( a ) as so lettered , for the words " Wharfage may be charged 

at rates not exceeding those given in the following table : - " , the 

following words shall be substituted, namely : 
" Except in the manner and to the extent stated in clause ( b ) , wharfage 

may be charged at rates not exceeding those given in the following 

table : 
( li ) after clause (a ) as so lettered , the following clause shall be inserted , 

namely : 
" (b ) In respect of consignments arriving at the destination very late , the 

free time and the rate of wharfage shall be as provided hereunder : 
( 1) when a consignment (goods or parcels ) reaches the destination 

after more than two months from the date of booking , the free 
time to be allowed shall be three days from the date of arrival, 

including the day of arrival; 
( ii ) the rate of wharfage for the first ten days after expiry of the free 

time shall be 50 per cent of what is otherwise leviable ; and 
( iii ) in respect of the subsequent period, namely , the period up to the 

date of removal of the consignment, the wharfage to be levied 
shall be in accordance with the rules for the time being in force ." 

[ No . TC /EP /204 /64.] 
P . C . MATHEW , Secy. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS & HOUSING 

New Delhi, the 27th April 1965 
$ . o . 1462 . - In pursuance of the provisions of rule 45 of the Fundamental 
Rules the President is pleased to make the following further amendments to the 
Supplementary Rules issued with the Government of India , Finance Department 
letter No. 104 - C . S .R ., dated the 4th February , 1922 , namely : 

In the said Supplementary Rules, in Part VIII , in Division XXVI- B , that is 
to say , in the Allotment of Government Residences (General Pool in Delhi) 
Rules , 1963 ; 
( i ) in sub - rule ( 1 ) of S . R . 317 - B - 7 , for the words " a residence , on falling 

vacant, will be allotted by the Director of Estates to an applicant" , 
the words, letters and figures " a residence on falling vacant will be 
allotted by the Director of Estates preferably to an applicant desiring 
a change of accommodation in that type under the provisions of 
S . R . 317 - B - 15 and if not required for that purpose , to an applicant 

without accommodation in that type " shall be substituted ; 
( ii ) after S . R . 317 - B - 14 the following rulc shall be inserted , namely : 
" Change of residence -- S . R . 317 - B 15 ( 1 ) An officer to whom a residence 

has been allotted under thesc rules may apply for a change to 
another residence of the same type or a residence of the type to 
which he is eligible under S . R . 317 - B - 5 , whichever is lower . Not 
more than one change shall be allowed in respect of one type of 

residence allotted to the officer. 
(2 ) All applications for change made in the form prescribed by the 

Director of Estates and received upto the 19th day of a calendar 
month shall be included in the waiting list in the succeeding 
month . For purposes of this rule the officers whose names are 
included in the waiting list in an earlier month shall be senior 
en bloc to those whose names are included in the list in subsequent 
months. The inter - se seniority of the officers included in the list 
in any particular month shall be determined in the order of their 
priority dates . 


- 


SEC , 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1968 /VAISAKHA 18, 1887 1647 

- - 
( 3 ) Changes shall be offered in order of seniority determined in accord 

ance with sub - rule ( 2 ) and having regard to the officers pre 

ferences as far as possible . 
( 4 ) An officer having allotment of a residence belonging to any pool 

mentioned in S . R . 317 - B - 8 shall be eligible only for a change to a 

residence of the same pool. 
( 5 ) If an officer fails to accept a change of residence offered to him 

within five days of the issue of such offer or allotment, he shall 

not be considered again for a change of residence of that type. " ; 
( iii) in S . R . 317 - B - 16 , after the letters and figures " S . R . 317 - B - 8 " the word , 


[No. 3 / 41 / 63 -Acc. I.] 


$ . 0 . 1463. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Public 
Premises ( Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants ) Act, 1958 ( 32 of 1958 ) , the 
Central Government hereby appoints the officer mentioned in column 1 of the 
table below , being gazetted officer of Government, to be Estate OMcer 
for the purposes of the said Act who shall exercise the powers conferred , 
and perform the duties imposed , on Estate Officers by or under the said Act 
within the local limits of their respective jurisdiction in respect of the public 
premises specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of the said table , 
with cffect from the 30th January , 1965 . 


THE TABLE 


Designation of officers 


Categorics of public premises and local limits of 

jurisdiction 


Assistant Estate Manager to the 
Government of India , Bombay . 


Premises belonging to or taken on lease or requi 
sitioned hy, or on behalf of the Central GOY 
ernment in Bombay except such of them as are 
under the adıninistrative control of other estate 
officers . 


- 


[No. 32 ( 3 ) /65 - Acc,II.] 
H . S . JAIN , Under Secy . 


. - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Office of the Chlef Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 24th April 1965 


$ . O . 1464 . — In cxercise of the powers conferred by Şub - Section ( 1 ) of Section 
4 of the Evacuee Interest ( Separation ) Act, 1951, the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri K , L . Wason , Competent Officer , for the Union Territory of Hima 
chal Pradesh also for the purpose of discharging the duties assigned to such 
Officers by or under the said Act, with effect from 15th April 1965 ( After - noon ) . 

[ No. 13 ( 4 ) AGZ/ 65 .] 


S . O . 1465 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of Section 
4 of the Evacuee Interest ( Separation ) Act , 1951, the Central Government hereby 
appoints for the Union Territory of Delhi, Shri K , L . Wason as Competent 
Officer for the purpose of discharging the duties assigned to the Competent 
Officer by or under the said Act , within the said Territory , with effect from the 
after -noon of the 15th April, 1965 . 


[No. 13 (4 ) / AGZ /65. ] 


1648 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 / VAISAKHA 18, 1887 (PART II – 
- - - - - - 

- - - - 
New Delhi, the 26th April 1965 
S . O . 1466 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (No. 12 of 
1954 ) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Radha Krishan as Settle 
ment Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officers 
by or under the said Act with effect from 16th April, 1965. 

2 . The Central Government also appoints Shri Radha Krishan as Additional 
Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officers by or under the said Act with effect from the same date . 

[No. 8 / 12 / ARG / 62 .] 
KANWAR BAHADUR , 
Settlement Commissioner ( A ) & 

Ex -Officio D . Secy . 

EX - TACH 
(omice of the Regional Settlement Commissioner, Rajasthan ) 

ORDER 

Jaipur, the 23rd April 1965 
S . O . 1467. — In exercise of the powers vested in me under section 34 of the 
Displaced persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954, I hereby delegate 
my powers of determining under section 7 ( 3 ) ibid , the net compensation payable 
to the claimants to Shri H . L . Dhawan and also authorise him under Rule 15 
of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules, 1955 to pre 
pare summaries in Appendix VII and to sign the payment orders thercon with 
effect from 5th March 1968 . 

[No. RSCR / AO / Admn / 1 ( 32 ) / Policy / 65 / 12633. ] 

GULAB L . AJWANI, 
Regional Settlement Commissioner . 


DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SECURITY 

New Delhi , the 28th April, 1965. 
S . O . 1468 . — In pursuance of clause ( a ) of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) of paragraph 
4 of the Employees Provident Funds Scheme, 1952, the Central Government 
hereby appoints the Joint Secretary to the Government of Madras , (Labour and 
Transport ) , Industries , Labour and Co -operation Department, as the Chairman 
of the Regional Committee set - up for the State of Madras and makes the follow 
ing further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
lale Ministry of Labour No. S .R . O . 3381 dated the 2nd November , 1954 , namely : 

In the said notification in cntry ( 1 ), for the words " Secretary to the Govern 
ment of Madras, Industries, Lubour and Cooperation Department Fort St. 
George, Madras" , the words " The Joint Secrctary to the Government of Madras, 
( Labour and Transport ), Department of Industries , Labour and Cooperation , 
Madras" , shall be substituted . 

[ No. 12 ( 8 ) 64-PF.II. ] 
$ . 0 . 1469. - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of sub -paragraph ( 1 ) of paragraph 4 
of the Employees Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 , the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Secretary to the Government of Uttar Pradesh , Labour Department, 
as the Chairman of the Regional Committee for the State of Uttar Pradesh in 
the yacancy caused by thc resignation of Shri R . H , Chishti and makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour and Employment No . S . O . 1703 dated the 29th June, 1960 , 
namely :- - 

In the said notification , against item ( 1 ), for the entry " Shri R . S . Chishti, 
Commissioner and Secretary to the Government of Uttar Pradesh , Labour 
Department, Lucknow " , the entry " The Secretary to the Government of Uttar 
Pradesh , Labour Department, Lucknow " shall be substituted . 

[No. 12 /5 / 64 -PF .II. ) 
New Delhi, the 3rd May 1965 
S . O . 1470 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of scction 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri Jogendra Nath Narzary to be an Inspector for the 


SEC . 8 (ü )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


1649 


whole of the State of Assam for the purposes of the said Act or of any scheme 
framed thereunder , in relation to any establishment belonging to , or under the 
control of the Central Government or in relation to any cstablishment connected 
with a railway company , a mine or an oilfield , or a controlled industry . 


DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 5th April , 1965. 
S . O . 1471. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act, 1952 and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , the Central Government hereby re 


at Madras with effect from 5th April, 1965 . 


[No. 11 / 3 /65-FC .) 
R . B . SINHA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi , the 28th April 1965 
S . O . 1472 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cine 
matograph Act, 1952 and sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 
of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958, the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri P . V . Chalapati Rau after consultation with the Central Board of 
Film Censors, as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras 
with immediate effect. 

[No. 11 / 3 / 85 - FC .] 
New Delhi, the 20th April 1965 
S . O . 1473 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act, 1952 and sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 read with sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 and 
sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , the Central 
Government herehy re - appoints Shri P , Veeraraghavan after consultation with 
the Central Board of Film Censors , as a member of the Advisory Panel of the 
said Board at Madras with effect from 10th May, 1965 . 

[No. F . 11/ 3 /65 - FC . ] 


S . O . 1474 . In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act, 1952 and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 rcad with sub -rule 2 of rule 9 of 
the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules, 1958 , the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri K . Satyanarayana after consultation with the Central Board of 
Flim Censors , as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras 
with immediate effect . 

[No. 11 / 3 / 65 -FC. ] 


S . O . 1475 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act , 1952 and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Smt. Leela Menon after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors as 
a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with immediate 
effect 

[ No. 11/3 /65- FC. ] 
H . N . AGARWAL, Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 27th April 1965 
$ . o . 1476 . — The following draft of a scheme further to amend the Bombay 
Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1957, which 
the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred 


1650 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18, 1887 


[PART II 


by sub - section ( 1) of section (4 ) of the Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employ 
ment) Act, 1948 ( 9 of 1948 ) , is published as required by the said sub - section for 
the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 1st 
June, 1965 . 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken into considera 
tion by the Central Government. 

Draft Scheme 
1. This Scheme may be called the Bombay Unregistered Dock Workers 
( Regulation of Employment) Amendment Scheme, 1965. 

2 . In the Bombay Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) 
Scheme, 1957 — 

( a ) in sub - clause ( 1) of clause 12A , after item ( xvi) the following items shall 
be inserted , namely : 
" ( xvi- A ) Where . In a case reported to him under Item (xvt), the Labour 

Omcer is of opinion that the act of indiscipline or misconduct is so 
serious that the worker should not be allowed to work any longer , 
the Labour Officer may, pending investigation of the matter, suspend 
the worker for a period not exceeding seven days and report 
immediately to the Deputy Chairman , who after preliminary investi 
gation of the matter shall pass orders thereon whether the worker 
should , pending Anal orders, remain suspended or not provided that 
the total period of such suspension shall not exceed a period of 

three months. 
( IV - B ) Where the Deputy Chairman comes to the decision that the order 

of suspension of the worker pending investigation into the charge 
of Indiscipline or misconduct, as the case may be, ought not to have 
been made, the worker shall be entitled to such payments from the 
Board in respect of the period of his suspension as the Administra 
tion Body may certify that the worker would have received , had he 

not been suspended ." 
( b ) in clause 16 , for sub - clause ( 1) , the following sub - clause shall be sub 
stituted : 
" ( 1) A listed worker who is aggrieved by an order of his employer under 

clause 14 ( 4 ) , may appeal to the Deputy Chairman whose decision 
thereon shall be Anal. " 

[No. 530 / 10 /65 -Fac.] 
K . D . HAJELA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 27th April 1965 
S . O . 1477. - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Hyderabad , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Ramagundam Division of the Singareni Collieries Company 
Limited and their workmen which was received by the Central Government on 
the 23rd April 1965 . 
BEFORE THE HON BLE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, ANDHRA PRADESH , 

HYDERABAD 
PRESENT : 
Dr. Mir Sladat All Khan , M . A ., LLB ., Fazel (Osm .) ; B . C . L ., (Oxon . ) ; D .Phil., 

(Oxon .) ; Bar - at-Law ; (Lincoln s Inn ) (London ) ; Chairman , Industrial 
Tribunal, Andhra Pradesh , Hyderabad , 
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No. 49 OF 1964 

BETWEEN 
Workmen of Singareni Collieries Co. Limited, Kothagudium , 

AND 
Management, Singareni Collleries Co. Limited, Godavari Khani. 


SEC , 3 ( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


16SI 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


APPEARANCES ; 
Sri M , Komaraiah , General Secretary, Singareni Collieries Workers Union , 

— for Workmen . 
Sri M . Shyam Mohan , Personnel Officer, Singareni Collieries Co. Ltd ., 

for the Management. 


AWARD 
By the Government of India , Ministry of Labour & Employment s letter No . 
7 / 19784 -LR II dated 6th November 1964 the industrial dispute between the 
employers of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited , and their workmen was 
referred for adjudication with the following issues framed viz ., 
" ( 1 ) Whether the claim of the following fortyseven female mazdoorg 

employed on clay pill making at Godavari Khani, Ramagundam 
division of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd .. to be absorbed by the 
company and paid the wages and granted other benefits in accordance 
with the award of the All India Industrial Tribunal ( Colliery D18 
putes ) as modified by the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal 

of India dated the 29th January 1-957 is justified ? 
1. Igati Ramamma. 
2 . Mesi Chinnamma. 
3 . Sulumalla Enkamma. 
4 . Kanaka Posamma. 
5 . Igati Mallamma. 
6 . Panja Rajamma, 
7. Kamera Pedda Posam . 
8 . Thungapindi Mallamma. 
9 . Mallepalli Durgamma. 
10 . Inagam Lakshmi. 
11, Medi Narsamma. 
12 . Bolepalli Radhamma. 
13 . Mede Posamma. 
14 . Thammalla Jakku . 
15 . Chippakurthi Lakshamamma. 
16 . Kallepalli Komaramma. 
17. Godamu Rajamma. 
18 . Desaboina Narsamma. 
19 . Inagam Venkamma. 
20 . Gollapalli Rajamma. 
21, Kallepalli Lakshmamma. 
22. Akula Lakshmamma. 
23 , Arla Balamma. 
24 . Santakari Banamma, 
25. Masuri Bondamma. 
26 . Boddu Chinnamma. 
27. Poşula Rajamma. 
28 . Bathula Posamma. 


30 . Malemu Banamma. 
31. Thudi Bhudevi. 
32. Nune Madhanamma. 
33. Siriboina Posamma. 
34 . Nali Nasulamma, 
35 , Komma Lakshmamma. 
36 . Parasa Lakshmamma. 


1652 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18, 1887 


[PART II 


37 . Thudi Santhamma. 
38 . Kondella Madhanamma. 
39 . Nali Rajamma. 
40 . Kirthi Rajamma. 
41. Nali Venkamma, 
42. Nali Chandramma, 
43 . Madhupurnam Rukkamma. 
44 . Dadi China Posam . 
45 . Dadi Peda Posam . 
46 . Kandella Lakshmamma, 
47. Nari Posam . 

(2 ) If so , to what relief are the workmen entitled and from what date ? ” 
2 . The reference was registered here as I. D . No. 49 / 1964. Both the parties 
adduced evidence and filed some documents. Arguments have been heard , 
record my opinion below . 


3 . The employer s stand is that the women engaged in clay pill making are 
not the employees of the Singareni Collieries and , therefore, there is no industrial - 
dispute here and I have no jurisdiction to enquire or adjudicate . The Company 
is not engaging any contractor. It is just purchasing the requisite number of clay 
pills . The demand that the benefits of the Coal Award should be conferred upon 
these women is incorrect, as the women making the clay pills are not the 
employces of the company . The learned representative of the employer , Sri 
Shyam Mohan , has enlarged upon this stand by contending that under section 
2 ( h ) of the Mines Act No. XXXV of 1952, it is necessary that these women should 
have been appointed by or with the knowledge of the employer and he has 
emphatically maintained that it is not proved that the 47 women were employed 
with the knowledge of the employer -- Company . He has even questioned the 
number and has contended that, as stated in paragraph 5 of the counter , ten of 
them are not employed even by the supplier. He has cited the Assam Chah 
Karmachari Sangha v . Dimakuchi Tca Estate [ 1958 ( I ) LLJ page 500 ] and the 
Dharangadhra Chemical Works Limited and State of Saurashtra and others 
[ 1957 ( I ) LLJ page 477 ] for the proposition that to establish thc relation of 
master and servant there must be supervision over the work of 
the servant. It is his eloquent stand that the company does not exercise 
any supervision and not even the supplier has any control over these 47 women , 
Lastly , he has contended that there is no record to show that these women have 
worked even from 1962. 

4 . I have considered the employer s stand and the argument of the learned 
representative . I am afraid I do not agree with him . Section 2 ( h ) of the Mines 
Act is as follows: 
" 2 ( h ) : A person said to be " employed" in a mine who works under 

appointment by or with the knowledge of the manager , whether for 
wages or not, in any mining operation , or in cleaning or oiling any 
part of any machinery used in or about the mine , or in any other 
kind of work whatsoever incidental to , or connected with mining 

operations; " 
I have perused the deposition of M . W . 1 , P . T . Thomas , Assistant Personnel 
Officer and that of M . W . 2 , Sri N . Madhavrao , the so called supplier . After 
perusal I am left in no doubt that Madhavrao is a contractor for making clay 
pills . He has begun his deposition with the words, viz ., " I have been taking 
contracts for supplying stone, sand , clay pills and gravel, At Ramagundam 
store . I supplied the things I mentioned above viz ., stone, sand , gravel and clay 
mills . Gunde Narsiah (serial 29 of the list of 47 workmen given in the Schedule 
to the order of reference ) is a cart -man as well as Mukkadam . He gives me 
the details of job done and wages due for the past week . Supervision over their 
work is done by the cart -man or Mukkadam Narsiah . Narsiah also supervises 
the coming and going of these women or their being late . The names given in 
the ciclosure to Ex , M - 4 page . - A are taken from my old register ." It may be 
noted that all the above statements have been made by the contractor Madhavrao 
in examination - in - chief . In cross - examination he stated viz ., " for clay pills 
making there is no tender . However , the company has fixed the rate of Rs. 2 .08 P . 
for supply 1000 clay pills . NOW THE RATE HAS BEEN INCREASED FROM 


$ rc . 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18, 1887 


1653 


- - - - 


- 


- 


2 . 08 P . to 2 .50 P . PER 1000 PILLS . There is no other contractor for supplying 
clay pills exccpt me. The women who have been working at Incline - l are 
working continuously from May 1962. Before me there was another contractor. 
I do not know whether these women worked under him and for how long . In 
Godavari Khani I am supplying at Incline - I daily 33 ,000 pills and at Incline - V 
13 .000 clay pills ." M . W , 1, Sri Thomas, has deposed that in Ex , M - 2 he has given 
the correct names of the 47 women specified with the ages also . Evidently this 
signifies knowledge of the employer . Further , he has mentioned in cross - exami 
nation that these women work picce -rate and by that he has explained that he 
meant that they come at any time and go away at any time after niaking 1000 
or 800 pills. This also shows knowledge , 


4 ( 1 ) , My conclusions from the deposition of these two witnesses are that the 
women are working as employees of the contractor at least from May 1962. The 
contractor exercises supervision over them through Mukkadam Nursiah . Even 
their coming late is takon note of by him . The contractor has a register and 
the names supplied in Ex . M - 4 are the names from that register . There is a 
categorical statement that all of them are working from May 1962. And even 
though the Contractor Madhavrao has deposed that in the case of clay pil 
moking no tender was called but that he is the only contractor for supplying the 
clay pills and that there is no other contractor. The factum of his being a 
contractor is also established by this statement that he has used the word rate 
and not the word price for supplying 1000 clay pills . He has used the same 
word rate again when he stated that the rate was increased from Rs. 2 ,08 P . 
to Rs. 2 .50 P . I , therefore, hold that I have no doubt that on the iecord . these 
women are employed by the contractor of the company and under the definition 
of the employees in the Standing Orders 2 ( a ) an cmployee means all work 
peuple, male or female, cmployed , above -ground or underground , either directly 
by the company or under a contractor or contractors. Thus, it is evident that 
these women are the employees of the company through the contractor and the 
Appellate Award of Sri Das Gupta dated 29th January 1957 explicitly lays down 
that the benefit awarded to the regular workmen should also be extended to the 
contract labour . I hold accordingly . 


5 . Only two things remain . One is whether there is any doubt about the 
self - same women having been working all the time. In this regard there is the 
explicit statement of the Contractor Madhayrao , M . W , 2 . that all these women 


identity of 10 women is not established and some objection is also taken to the 
sur - names and the manner in which they are pronounced It appears to me that 
except for onc woman Inagam Venkamma or Janagam Venkamma who has left 
one year ago and in whose place the contractor has employed Kamera China 
Pochamma the objection is not correct. It is not established that the 10 women , 
serials 10 , 19 , 28 , 29 , 39, 41, 42, 44, 45 and 46 are not engaged by the contractor. 
The contractor, M . W . 2 , has admitted that serial 10 Jangam Lakshmi, serial 41 
Neeli Venkamma, serial 42 , Neeli Chandramma and serial 44 Dadi China Posam , 
serial 45 Dadi Peda Posam are working . He has added that serial 28 Bathula 
Posamma is not working and he is not sure whether Kandella Lakshmamma, 
serial 46 , is also working. In my opinion , I have no reason to disbelieve the 
evidence of workmen s witnesses who have stated in clcar words that at the time 
of reference all these 46 women mentioned in the Schedule to the order of 
refererice were working . W . W . I has deposcd that in the place of Serial 28 
Bathula Pochamma the contractor has appointed S . Bhudevi; that serial 39 Nali 
or Neeli Rajamma, serial 41, Neeli or Nali Venkamma and serial 46 Kundella 
Laxamma are all working. This will show that all the 10 workers about whom 
it was said in the counter that they are not working are in fact working . Serial 
29 is a man . He is the Mukkadam Narsiah , at serial 29 . He is also working. 
I hold accordingly . 


6 . The other thing which has remained for consideration is that under the 
Appellate Das Gupta Award these 46 women are to be given the benefits of the 
Coal Award like any other regular workmen . I direct that the same should be 
conferred upon them together with Category I wages. There remain serial 29 
the Mukkadam Narsiah , As he is included in thc 47 women workmen and no 
separate wages were claimed for him in the claims statement, evidence or the 
argument, I inclined to the view that he should also be given the Category - I 
wages . But Mukkadam for female workmen finds a mention in the Wage 
Schedule of the Company . The same may be given to him , In any case the 
company has departmentalized clay -pill making in other divisions. The same 
wages as paid there to Mukkadams may be paid to him . The question is from 
what date . As far as I could gather from the record the date of conciliation is 


1654 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


[PART II 


27th July 1964. I, therefore, direct that the same benefits may be given to them 
from that date . 

Award accordingly , given under my hand and the seal of the Court, this the 
19th day of April, 1966 . 

( Sd .) M . S . ALI KHAN , 

Industrial Tribunal. 
Witnesses examined for : 
Workmen : 

W . W . 1 ; M . Bhaskerrao . 
W . W . 2 : D . Narsamma. 

W .W . 3 : Dadi China Posu 
Management: 

M . W . 1 : P . T . Thomas. 
M . W . 2 : N , Madhavarao . 
M . W . 3 : Smt. B Radhamma. 

M . W . 4 : Gunde Narsalah . 
Documents exhibited by Workmen : 


Ex. W1: Memo. of settlement reached during conciliation proceedings 

between the workmen and the employers of Singareni Col 

lieries Co . Ltd . dated 30th November 1963. 
Ex . W2: Letter from the Conciliation Officer ( Central), Hyderaoad 

addressed to the Chief Labour Commissioner , New Delhi. 
W3: Minutes of section discussions held during the conciliation 

proceedings on 17th August 1964. 
Ex. W4; Memo. of agreement dated 30th October 1981 reached between 

the employers in the Coal Industry represented by the 
Indian Mining Association , Indian Mining Federation and the 
Indian Colliery Owners Association and their workmen 
represented by the Indian National Mine Workers Federa 
tion , Koyala Mazdur Panchayat, Colliery Mazdoor Congress, 
Hind Mazdoor Sabha and the Indian Mine Workers Fede 

ration , 
Ex. W5: Memo. of settlement between the Singareni Collieries Co . 

Ltd . and their workmen during the course of conciliation 

proceedings on 25th June 1960 . 
Documents exhibited by the Employers : 
Ex. M1: Letter dated 24th July 1964 from the General Secretary of the 

Workers Union to the Conciliation Officer , Hyderabad 
Ex, M2: List of 47 workmen as given in the reference along with the 

corrected names as verified . 
Ex . M3: Certificate dated 21st March 1965 from the Sarpanchi. 
Ex, M4; List of documents furnished along with list of witnesses . 
Ex . M4/ 1 : Statement furnished by the Contractor. 
Ex . M4/ 2B : Another statement furnished by the Contractor. 
Ex, M4/ 3 : List of 39 workmen that worked from 3rd January 1964 to 

21st October 1964 . 
Ex, M4/ 4 : Another list of 43 workmen with other particulars furnished 

by the Contractor , N . Madhavarao . 
Ex. M5: Clay pills register for 1964 . 

( Sd.) M . S . ALI KHAN , 

Industrial Tribunal, 
[No. 7 / 19 / 64 / LRII .] 


Sec 3( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18, 1887 


1655 


- 


= 


= - - - 


New Delhi, the 29th April 1965 
$ . 0 , 1478 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Birsinghpur Colliery of Messrs . Johilla Coalfields Private Limit 
ed , Post Office, Birsinghpur Pali, District Shahdol and their workmen which was 
received by the Central Government on the 23rd April, 1965. 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

BOMBAY 

REFERENCE No . C .G .I. T . 43 OF 1963 . 
Employers in relation to Birsinghpur Colliery of Messrs. Johilla Coalfields 

Private Limited . 


AND 


Their Workmen . 
PRESENT; 

Shri Salim M . Merchant. — Presiding Officer , 
For the employers. — Shri B . J. Nagrath , Governing Director with Shri K , C . 

Jain , General Manager . 
For the workmen . - Shri S . R . Paliwal, President, Shri G . C . Jaiswal, Gene 

ral Secretary , Shri A Rahman , Vice - President, and Shri K . B . Chou 
gule , Member , Executive Committce , Johilla Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 

Bombay, dated this 19th day of April, 1965 . 
INDUSTRY : Coal Mining . 

STATE : Madhya Pradesh . 
AWARD 


The Central Government, by the Ministry of Labour and Employment s Order 
No . 8 / 125 / 63 LRII dated 8th October , 1963, made, on a joint application of the 
parties , under sub - section 2 of section 10 of the Industrial Disp ites Act, 1947 

section XIV of 1947 ) , was pleased to refer the industrial dispute between the 
parties above -named in respect of the following subject matters specified in 
annexure II to the said order , to me for adjudication . 

ANNEXURE II 
1. Whether the miners demand that they should not be asked to help the drill 
operators as required to do at present is justified . 

2 . Whether the miners are entitled to any additional payment for having done 
the above job in the past or the present rates paid cover the above and other 
anciliary jobs. In case the workers demand is justified what relief they are 
entitled . 

3 . Whether the miners are justified in claiming additional payment for carry 
ing earthen pallets underground or the payment for the same is covered by the 
existing rate . In case the workers demand is justified what relief they are en 
titled 

4 . Whether the existing picce rate for miners will need to be revised and if 
so , to what extent in case the existing practices of helping the drillers and carry 
ing pallets underground by the miners are to be stopped . 

After the parties had Aled their written statements , at the adjourned hearing 
of this dispute before me at Bombay on 19th April, 1965, after some discussion , 
the parties recorded that " in view of the fact that the recommendations of the 
Central Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry , in India (hereinafter rcferred to 
as the Coal Wage Board ) are expected to be made in the near future, and cun 
sidering the other facts and circumstances of the case , the parties , without pre 
judice to thcir respective contentions, lcave it to me ( the Tribunal) to fix such 
amount of increase in the existing rate of Rs. 2 . 91 per tub of 47. 25 c . f. t. paid to 
the miners of the Birsinghpur Colliery as I consider fair and leasonable , as also 
the date from which the rate fixed by me shall come into operation and the com 
pensation to be paid to the miners upto the date of the new rate fixed by me is 
to come into force, provided that such increased rate should be directed to rernain 
in force till the wage rates , and the wage structure and method of payment re 
commended by the Coal Wage Board will come into force , when the awarded rate 
of payment will be replaced by the recommendations of the Coal Wage Board ." 


1656 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1963 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


[PART II 


After taking into consideration the subject matters under reference and the 
submission of the parties and the facts and circumstances stated above, I award 


should be increased to Rs . 2 . 94 ps. per tub of 47 . 25 c . ft. with effect from 1st June , 
1965 . I further direct that the awarded rate fixed by me shall remain in force 
till the wage rates and the wage structure and the method of payment recom 
mended by the Coal Wage Board will come into force when the rate of payment 
awarded by me herein for the miners will be replaced by the wage rates, the 
wage structure and the method of payment for miners, recommended by the Coal 
Wage Board , 

I further direct that compensation at the rate of Rs. 10 per month per ininer 
on the rolls of the colliery as on 1st June , 1965 , shall be paid in full satisfaction 
of the claims herein . Such payment to be made by 20th Junc, 1965 . 

The Union has pressed for cost and considering that the representatives of the 
Union had to attend the hearing of this dispute at Bombay. I award Rs. 300 as 
costs in favour of the Union , also to be paid by 20th June, 1965 . 


Presiding Oficer . 

[No. 8 / 125 / 63 -LR , II . ) 
New Delhi, the 30th April 1965 
S . O . 1479 . - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1847 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Selected Searsole Colliery , P . O . Raniganj, District Burdwan 
(West Bengal) and their workmen which was received by the Central Govern 
ment on the 26th April , 1965 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 44 OF 1964 
PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the Selected Searsole Colliery , 


AND 


Their workmen . 
PRESENT; 

Shri L . P . Dave- Presiding officer . 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of employers. — Shri H . L . Tandon , Agent. 

On behalf of workmen . - Shri N . D . Advocate . 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines. 

AWARD 
The Government of India Ministry of Labour and Employment, by their 
Order No. 6 / 55 / 64 -LR . II dated 25th July 1964 , have referred the industrial dispute 
existing between the employers in relation to the Selected Searsole Colliery and 
their workmen in respect of the question whether the action of the management 
in dismissing Sri Sanatan Majhi, Pick Miner , by its letter dated 23rd May 1964 
was legal and justified and if not , to what relief thc workman was cntitled , for 
adjudication to this Tribunal, 

2 . In response to notices issued by the Tribunal, the workmen represented 
by the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha filed a written statement contending inter alice 
that the management began to weed out the employees belonging to the Colliery 
Mazdoor Sabha by dismissal, discharge and refusal of employment and in a 
number of other ways and began to take new hands in their places : that the 
case of Sanatan Majhi is one of such glaring instances of victimisation and unfair 


Mazdoor Sabha, Selected Searsole Collicry branch ; that on 8th April 1964 he 
was served with a back - dated chargeshcet containing false and malicious charges . 
He replied to it on 8th April 1964 . While this matter was still under investiga 
tion , he was again served with another chargesheet dated 16th April 1964 con 
taining baseless charges and to this also he gave his reply . After this , he was 


SEC, 8 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 /VAIŞAKHA 18 , 1887 1657 
- 

- - - 
asked to attend an enquiry . His rępcated representation to be represented by 
Sri Dutta , an employee of the Company and / or the Vice - President of the Union 
were turned down . So he went there to participate in the cnquiry Vith protest 
But he was neither allowed to produce any defence witness nor was any enquiry 
held to his knowledge. Thereafter he was dismissed by a letter dated 23rd May 
1964. He was not guilty of any misconduct and the action of the management 
was illegal, mala fide and against all principles of natural justice, It was there 
for urged that he should be ordered to be reinstated with payment of full back 
wages . 

3 . The cmployers filed a written statement contending inter alia that the case 
of Sanatan Majhi was not a case of victimisation ; that the cmployers had no . 
knowledge of Sanatan s union activities ; that Sanatan was chargeshceted for 
robbing pillars on 3rd April 1964 and for stealing pick axe of a co -worker named 
Alijan Mia on 15th April 1964 ; that he submitted his replies to the chargesheets 
denying the allegations and raising pleas of victimisation ; that proper enquiries 
were held by the employers in respect of the two chargesheets and the workinan 
was given opportunity to participate in the same; that the enquiry in respect of 
the chargesheet dated 3rd April 1964 was held on 14th May 1964 and the enquiry 
in respect of the other chargesheet was held on 21st May 1964 ; that the workman 
intentionally and deliberately refrained from participating in the enquiries; that 
he has been rightly dismissed by the management and his dismissal is bona fide . 

4 . The present dispute relates to the dismissal of a workman named Sanatan 
Majhi who had been working as a pick miner in the Selected Searsole Colliery 
for about 10 years . A chargesheet dated 3rd April 1964 was served on him . It 
was alleged therein that he had committed pillar robbing in a particular de 
pillaring section and he was asked to give his explanation within 24 hours of 
The receipt of this chargeshect. He replied to this on 8th April 1964 alleging 
that the charges were concocted , preplanned , motivated and were made with 
ulterior motives to harass and victimise the workman because he, along with 
othors, had refused to give up membership of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha though 
asked to do so by the management. An enquiry regarding this chargeshect was 
ordered to be held on 25th April 1964 and a letter to this effect was issued on 
10th April 1984 . On 16th April 1964 the workman wrote to the manager saying 
that he was not able to read and write and requested that the management may 
kindly allow the Union Secretary , Shri S . C . Dutta or the Union Vice- President. 
Shri Robin Chatterjee to be present at the time of the enquiry . A reply to this 
letter was sent on 3rd May 1964 wherein it was stated that the workman s 
request to bring an union official would not be allowed , but he may bring one 
or two literate co -workers who were in colliery s employment at the time. The 
letter further mentioned that the enquiry proposed to be held on 25th April 1964 
had been adjourned to 14th May 1964 and he should attend the same. 

5 . It is alleged that an enquiry was duly held on 14th May 1964 . According 
to the management, the workman was not present at the enquiry . On the other 
hand , the workman says that he was present at he enquiry but no enquiry was 
held in his presence ; that no witnesses were examined in his presence and 
naturally he had no opportunity to cross examine them ) and lastly , that he got 
no opportunity to give defence witnesses, 

6 . In the meanwhile , a second chargesheet had been served on this workman 
on 16th April 1964 wherein it was alleged that he was found carrying two coal 
cutting pick axes while coming out of the mine at the end of the second shift 
of 12th April 1964 ; that on enquiry he said that the extra pick uxe had been 
handed over to him by a mining sirdar Ramjiban Singh ; that the pick axe 
actually belonged to one Alijan Mia ; that he was thus guilty of two offences, 
one of stealing of a pick axe and the second of throwing the responsibility 
thereof on another person . He was also asked to give his explanation to this 
chargeshrct within twentyfour hours. He replied to it stating that the allcga 
tions against him were false and were made with ulterior notives and for harass 
ing and victimising him because he had refused to give up membership of the 
Colliery Mazdoor Sabha. An enquiry was ordered to be held on 9th May 1964 . 
On 3rd May 1964 , the workman made a request to be allowed to be represented 
by the union Secretary , Sri Dutta or Vice - President, Shri Robin Chatterjee . On 
6th May 1964 a reply was sent refusing his request but informing him that he 
could bring one or two of his literate co -workers with him . He was further 
informed that the enquiry would be held on 21st May 1984. 

7 . An enquiry was held on 21st May 1964. According to the management, the 
workman did not appear at the enquiry and it was held ex- parte . On thw other 
hand , the workman says that he was present but no enquiry was held in his 


1658 
- - - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 / VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 
- - - - - - 


[ PART II 


- 


- 


- 


presence . No witnesses were examined and naturally he was not allowed to 
cross examine the witnesses nor was any opportunity given to him to examine 
defence witnesses. 

8 . Ultimately a letter dated 23rd May 1964 was sent to the workman , inform 
ing him that he was found guilty of the charges which were the subject matters 
of the above two chargesheets . The letter then mentioned that a complaint had 
been received by the management that the workman was threatening others and 
asking them to join the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha and this conduct was very 
objectionable . Then the letter further mentioned that when he had fallen ill he 
was issued with a fitness certificate on 17th May 1964 and still he did not 
approack the manager till 22nd May 1984 for resuming duty . Lastly , the letter 
mentioned ( in last para ) . " All the above actions of yours prove that you have 
the least regard to the discipline and order of the management and hence the 
management had decided to dismiss you from your service with immediate effect 


is this disrnissal which is the subject matter of the present reference , 

9. In support of their case , the union have examined the workman concerned , 
Sanatan Majhi. He has stated that though he was present at the time of both 
the enquiries , no witnesses were examined in his presence nor were his witnesses 
were allowed to be cxamined . He has also denied the allegations made against 
him in the two chargesheets . As against this , the employers have not led any 
evidence . They have not examined either of the Enquiry Omcers who held the 
two enquiries nor have they examined the manager or any other witness in 
support of the allegations made by them against the workman . 

10 . The law regarding the powers of a tribunal when dealing with matters 
of this type is now well settled . When a proper enquiry has been held by an 
employer and as a result thercof the workman is dismissed, the Iribunal would 
not ordinarily interfere unless it is satisfied that the enquiry was not proper OI 
that principles of natural justice were not followed or that it was a case of victi 
misation or unfair labour practice or thut there were malafides or that the 
Anding of the enquiry officer was perverse . The tribunal is not sitting in appea ) 
against the finding of the enquiry officer and cannot go into the reliability or 
sufficiency of the evidence . On the other hand , if the enquiry is found to be 
improper , the tribunal can go into the merits of the case and decide the allega 
tions on the strength of evidence produced before it . 

11. In the present case , there have been two chargesheets in respect of two 
offences . I shall deal with them one by one. The first is a chargcsheet dated 
3rd April 1964 alleging that the workman wag guilty of pillar robbing. An 
enquiry was held in this chargesheet on 14th May 1964. As I said above, the 
workman has said that he was present at the enquiry but no witnesses were 
examined in his presence , that is , no enquiry was held in his presence . He had 
no opportunity to cross examine the witnesses nor had he any opportunity to 
examine defence witnesses. I believe him . There is no evidence to the contrary, 
It may be noted that the enquiry was held by Shri Tandon , the agent of the 
colliery, who conducted the case before the tribunal on behalf of the manage 
ment. Shri Tandon should have gone into the witness box , but has not done so 
and an adverse inference must be drawn against him for this . Thus, on the 
strength of the evidence of the workman . I would hold that no proper enquiry 
was held in the matter. 

12 . Apart from this, however , there are at least two gross irregularities of 
illegalities in the matter, The Arst is about the date on which the alleged 
enquiry was held . As I mentioned earlier, the enquiry was originally fixed for 
25th April 1964 but by a letter of 3rd May 1964 it was adjourned to 14th May 
1964. The original enquiry papers have been produced before me. The first 
page thereol starts with the statement " proceeding of an enquiry held on 14th 
May 1964 at 9 - 30 a . m . in the general office of the colliery in connection with the 
chargesheet issued to Sanatan Majhi" . After mentioning that the workman had 
not turned up and the matter was procccded cx - parte, the statement of the 
manager Shri L . N . Mallik was recorded . After the statement was completed , 
we find the signature of Shri Mallik with the date 14th May 1964 and the initials 
of Shri Tandon who was holding the enquiry also with the date 14th May 1984 
written there. Though some portion of the paper was hlank , the next statement 
appears to have been recorded on a separate paper. Actually I find that there 
are four other statements of R . N . Tiwari (Overman ) , Jugal Mja ( Pick Miner ) , 
Alijan ( Pick Miner ) and D . K . Gupta (Asstt. Manager ) . All these statements 
have been recorded on separate sheets of paper though there was sufficient blank 
space to record the statement after the earlier statement was completed , I do 


SEC , 8 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 / VALSAKHA 18 , 1887 1659 

- - - - 

-- - - 
not know how if an enquiry was held at a stretch , the statements were not 
recorded in continuation without keeping any portion of the paper blank , 

13 . Apart from this , the most important thing to be noted is that below all 
these four statements the persons making the statcmunts put thcir signatures 
with the date 25th April 1964. Similarly Shri Tandon also put his initials on 
each sheet with the date 25th April 1964. This date 25th April 1964 has subse 
quentiy been over -written by the date 14th May 1964 without any initials . When 
at the time of arguments , I asked the explanation of Shri Tandon as to how the 
original date was written as 25th April 1964 , he said that it must have been 
written erroneously . I cannot believe that different persons could make the 
identical mistake in the date nor can I believe that the identical mistake would 
be made at eight places . The only conclusion I can draw from this is that the 
statements must have been recorded on 25th April 1964 and subsequently the 
dates have been changed to 14th May 1964 to make & show that they weie 
recorded on that date . In other words, no enquiry was held on 14th May 1964 
and the workman s statement to this effect is borne out by tliis circumstance . 

14 . There is one other significant irregularity regarding this enquiry and it is 
that the enquiry was held by Shri Tandon who was the agent of the colliers . After 
the enquiry , he is said to have made a report about his finding to the manager 
(who is suburdinate to him ) recommending the dismissal of the workman , The 
manager then wrote out that he perused the report and recommended his dis 
missal and after this Shri Tandon , as agent, made an endorsement that the 
recommendation for dismissal was approved . Under the standing orders , the 
manager has to obtain approval of his higher officer before he could disiniss 
a workman and that is why he had to obtain the above approval of Shri Tandon . 
The most surprising part of it is that Shri Tandon was himself the enquiry officer 
and as an enquiry officer he had already recommended dismissal and he himself 
approves of it as the agent! When Shri Tandon was asked about this at the time 
of arguments , his explanation was that he had held the enquiry in his personal 
capacity while the approval of dismissal was in his capacity as agent. This is 
not true. The statements recorded by Shri Tandon have been signed by him 
aş agent, showing that he was holding the cnquiry as agent and not in his per 
sonal capacity . But even assuming that he had held the enquiry in his personal 
capacity , even then it was not proper that he should approve of the action as 
agent. It is as if he was sitting in appeal against his own order . Human nature 
being what it is , one cannot expect that he would be able to take a dispassionate 
view of his earlier proposal. The standing orders require approval of a higher 
authority with the purpose that an independent person should be able to apply 
his mind to the facts of the case before approving of disinissal of a workman . 
Here Shri Tandon had already made up his mind when he held the enquiry and 
he could not bring an independent mind when he approved of that action . Thus, 
so far as this enquiry is concerned , the dismissal would be illegal as not having 
been approved by a proper higher authority , 

15 . I now come to the second chargesheet . Ilere the evidence before me is 
only that of the workman who has said that he was present at the time fixed 
for the enquiry but no enquiry was held in his presence and no witnesses were 
exanined in his presence and he got no opportunity to cross cxamine them , 
There is no evidence to the contrary . This enquiry is said to have been held 
by the Assistant Manager who has not been examined before me. I hold that 
this enquiry was also improper . 

10 . Incidentally I may mention here that this charge relates to the stealing of 
a pick axe belonging to one Alijan Mia and to the effect that the workman tried 
to pass on the responsibility of the theft on a person named Ramjiban Singh . 
It appears that from the very beginning the worlman s case has been that the 
pick axe had been given to him by Ramjiban Singh , who, it may be noted , wag 
a mining sirdar. If he had asked the workman to carry the pick axe with him , 
he would normally do so . Though the management have charged him with trying 
to foist the l esponsibility on Ramjiban Singh falsely , no attempt has been mado 
to examine Ramjiban Singh before the enquiry officer , In other words, the 
explanation of the workman was rejected without the person having been exa 
minec . In any case , when an illiterate workman was unreprescnted at the 
inquiry , it was the duty of the enquiry officer to have called this person to verify 
whether the allegation made by the workman about the pick axe having been 
given to him was correct or not. 


17 . I thus hold that both the enquiries were not proper and the dismissal of 
the workman cannot be justified on the basis of the Andings given in the two 
enquiries Of course , it would have been open to the management to support 


- 1660 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 [PART II 

- - - - - - - - - -- - - - 
the dismissal by leading evidence before the tribunal in support of the allegations 
made in the chargesheets but they have not done so . On the other hand, the 
workman has denied these allegations. 

18 . I may also mention here that the order of dismissal cannot be supported 
on one more ground and it is that the order of dismissal is passed not only on 
the facts mentioned in the two chargesheets but on other grounds also. It is 
not clear as to what weighed with the dismissing authority when the order of 
dismissal was passed . I need not however discuss the matter further in view of 
the definite clear conclusion to which I have come and it is that no (proper ) 
enquiry was held in the case and that the workman got no opportunity to cross 
examine the witnesses or leading defence witneşş. It may also bc noted that 
the workmen s case has been from the very beginning that the false charge 
sheets were issued against him because of his trade union activities . There 
appears to be some force in this . 

19 . In the result , I hold that the dismissal of the workman Shri Sanalan 
Majhi is not legal or justified . He is ordered to be reinstatod and to be paid 
all his wages and all other benefits which he would have got if he had been in 
service all along . The arrears of wages should be paid to him within one month 
of the award becoming enforceable. The management shall also pay Rs. 100 / 
as costs to the union . 


(Sd.) L . P . DAVE , 

Presiding Officer. 
Dated , 
-21st April 1965 

[No. 6 / 55 /64 - LR - II.] 
New Delhi, the 1st May 1965 
$ , 0 . 1480 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) . the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the East Jemehari Colliery , P . O . Raniganj, District Burdwan and their 
workmen which was received by the Central Government on the 201h April , 1965 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 5 OF 1965 
PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the East Jemehari Colliery , 


ANU 
Their workmen . 
PRESENT : 

Shri L . P . Dave — Presiding Officer, 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of employers. — Shri C . L . Daga, Partner , 
On hehalf of workmen . — Shri Robin Chatterjee , Vice-President, Colliery 

Mazdoor Sabha. 
STATE : West Bengal . 

INDUSTRY ; Coal Mines. 

AWARD 
The Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, by their order 
No. 6 / 116 / 84 -LR . II, dated 5th January 1965 , have referred the industrial dispute 
existing between the employers in relation to the East Jemehari Collicry and 
their workmen in respect of the question whether the management were justified 
in dismissing Sri Nishapati Roy, Surveyor , and if not , to what relief hc was 
entitled , for adjudication to this Tribunal. 

2 . In response to notices issued by the Tribunal, both parties filed written 
statements . The matter was then fixed for hearing and evidence was commenced 
to be recorded . The workmen had closed their case and the manager was being 
examined on behalf of the employers . At this stage there were discussions 
between the parties for a compromise and ultimately they entered into a compro 
mise and produced a memorandum of settlement before me, copy thereof is 
appended herewith . 


Sec, 8 (il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


1661 


3 . The present dispute relates to the dismissal of a surveyor . Under the 
terms of the settlement, the workmen do not press for his claim of reinstatement. 
The employers have agreed to pay a sum of Rs. 1,500 in full and final settlement 
of all his claims from the employers . In my opinion , the compromise is fair and 
reasonable , I therefore accept it. 

I pass an award in terms of the compromise . 

Dated ; 
The 21st April , 1965 . 

(Sd.) L . P . DAVE , 

Presiding Officer . 
BEFORE SRI L . P . DAYE , PREŞIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 

INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 


REFERENCE No . 5 OF 1965 
Employers in relation to East Jemehari Colliery 


AND 


Their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha. 


The humble petition of compromise between the employers and the union 
above named, 


Most respectfully sheweth : 

1, that the parties above named have settled the dispute amicably on the 
following Terms: 
(a ) that Shri Nishapati Roy will have no claim for reinstatement or 

employment in the above company . 
(b ) that the company will pay a sum of Rs. 1, 500 ( Rupees fifteen hundred ) 

only in full and final satisfaction of his claim from the employer in 

cluding leave and other dues if any. 
( c ) that Nishapati Roy states that he has given up possession of the 

quarter allotted to him by the employer and the employer can occupy 

the same at any time. 
( d ) that the above payment of Rs. 1 ,500 ( Rupees fifteen hundred only ) will 

be made before the Labour Inspector ( Central ), Ranigunj in pre 
sence of the Vice - President of the Union , on the 3rd May 1965 between 

3 to 4 p . m . 
( e ) that the Manager of the said colliery will give to Shri Nishapati Roy his 

working certificate at the time of aforesaid payment. 


It is , therefore, humbly prayed that Hon ble Tribunal will be graciously 
pleased to pass an Award in terms of the said settlement, 


And for this act of kindness the parties hereto shall ever pray . 


ROBIN CHATTERJEE, 


Colliery Mazdoor Sabha 
( for the workmen ) 


CHIRANJILAI, DAGA , 

21 -4 - 65 . 
Partner of the Colliery . 
( for the Employer). 

21, 4 , 1965 . 
NISHAPATI Roy , 


Dated , 21st April, 1985 . 


( Sd .) Illegible 

Manager, 
East Jemehari Colliery . 

21 -4 - 1965. 
{ No. 6 / 116 / 64 /LRII.) 


1662 THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18, 1887 [PART II 

- - . 
s . O 1481 - In purguance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Jamuria A & B Pits Colliery of M / s , Equitable Coal Co . Ltd ., 
P . O . Dishergarh , Burdwan and their workmen which was received by the Central 
Government on the 26th April, 1965 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 9 OF 1965 
PARTIES : 


Employers in relation to the Jamuria A & B Pits Collicry of M /s. Equitable 

Coal Co. Ltd ., 


AND 


Their workmen . 
PRESENT: 

Shri L . P . Dave - Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES: 

On behalf of employers. - Shri S . K . Bhattacharya , Labour Adviser . 
On behalf of workmen . - Shri Jagannath Pandey . Vice - President, Collicry 

Mazdoor Congress, Gora Mansion . 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Coul Mines : 

AWARD 
There was an industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the 
Equitable Coal Co ., Ltd ., and their workmen on the question whether the dis 
missal of a Depot Pcon named Shri Magina Choubey and Jamuria A & B Pits 
Colliery was justified and if not, to what relief he was entitled . The parties to 
the dispute jointly applicd to the Central Government for reference of the above 
to thc Tribunal and thercupon the Government of India , Ministry of Labour and 
Employment, by their Order No . 8 / 104 / 64 -LR . II , dated 16th January 1965 , have 
referred the said dispute for adjudication to this Tribunal. 

2 . When the matter came up for hearing before me to -day, the parties after 
some discussion entered into a compromise and produced a memorandum of 
settlement, copy appended herewith . The dispute relates to thc dismissal of a 
peon Magina Choubey . Under the terms of the settlement, he is to be reinstated 
from 26th April 1965 and there is to be continuity of service by trcating the 
period of unemployment as leave without pay . In my opinion , the compromise 
is fair and reasonable . 

I therefore accept the compromise and pass an award in terms thereof. 

Dated , 
The 22nd April, 1965. 

(Sd .) L . P . DAVE , 

Presiding Officer . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 9 OF 1965 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Jamuria A & B Pits Colliery of Messrs . Equitable 
Coal Co . Ltd . 

AND 
Their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Congress, Garat 
Mansion , Asansol 

AND 
In the matter of joint petition of compromise , 


= 


_ 


= 


Bec . 8(!!)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18, 1887 1663 

= B 

= = = 
The aforesaid petition most respectfully sheweth : 
That the dispute has been settled mutually on the following terms; 
1, Shri Magina Choubey will be reinstated and will join duty from 26th 

April , 1965. 
2 . That the period of unemployment will be treated as leave without pay for 

the purpose of continuity of service only . 
3 . That the parties will bear their own costs. 
Under the above it is prayed that the Hon ble Tribunal will be graciously 
pleased to pass an award in terms of the said compromise , 

And for this act of kindness, the petitioners as in duty bound shall ever pray, 
( for Workmen ) . 

(for Employers ). 
J. Pandey , 
Vice -President, 
Colllery Mazdoor Congress. 

( Sd. ) Illegible , 
22 - 4 - 1965. 

Dated , 
The 22nd April, 1965 . 

( Magina Choubey ) . 

[NO. 8 / 104 / 64 -LR .II. ) 
New Delhi, the 3rd May 1965 
S . O . 1482 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 33A 
of the said Act , from Sarvashri Padam Bahadur Gurang and Birbal Pun , watch 
men of the Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited , Jamadoba, Post Office Jeal 
gora , District Dhanbad , which was received by the Central Government on the 
28th April, 1965 . 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 
In the matter of a Complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 ( XIV of 1947 ) . 

COMPLAINT No . 5 OF 1965 
( arising out of Reference Nos. 39 of 64, 63 of 63 , 46 of 64, 31 of 64 and 67 

of 63 ) , 


PARTIES ; 

1. Padam Bahadur Gurang , 
2 . Birbal Pun , Watchmen , c / o Presiding, Congress Mazdoor Sangh , Jora 
pekhar No. IX P . O . Jealgora , Dt. Dhanbad - Complaints, 

Versus 
M /s . Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd ., Jamadoba, P . O . Jcalgora, Dt. Dhanbad 

Opposite Party . 
Present: 

Şri Raj Kishore Prasad, M . A ., B . L ., Presiding Officer . 
State : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Coal 
Dhanbad , dated the 20th April, 1965 

AWARD 
This complaint was made under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 by Sarvashri Padam Bahadur Gurang, and Birbal Pun , Watchmen of the 
Tata Iron and Steel Co . Ltd., Jamadoba, Opposite Party , on 10th February 1965 
complaining against their dismissal with effect from 16th November 1964, 

2. On 19th April 1965 a petition of withdrawal signed by Sri B . N . Sharma, 
President, Congress Mazdoor Sangh , representing the two complainants , was 


1664. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 / VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 (PART II 
- - -- - - 

- 
received in which it was stated that the company opposite party had reinstated 
the complainants in service and both of them were now working and , therefore, 
there was no dispute now betwecn the parties, and , as such the complainants may 
be permitted to withdraw their joint complaint. 

3. In these circumstances, the complainants are permitted to withdraw their 
joint complaint. 

4 . This is the award which I make and submit to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Labour and Employment, under Section 15 of the Act, 

(Sd . ) RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

[No. 8 / 189/ 63 -LRII. ] 
ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 27th April 1965 
S . O . 1483. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Belampalli Division of 
Singareni Collieries Company, Limited Belampalli P . O . (Andhra Pradesh ) and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal, with 
Dr. Mir Siadat Ali Khan as the Presiding Officer , with Headquarters at Somaji 
guda , Hyderabad , and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Singareni Collieries Company Limited was justi 
fied in suspending from service and refusing payment of wages to Sarvashri 
Bestha Venkaty and Waheed Khan , for a period of eight days with effect from 
the 30th December , 1964 ? If not to what relief are the workmen cntitled ? 

[No. 7 / 5 / 65 - LR . II.] 
New Delhi, the 29th April 1965 
S .O . 1484 , - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Nandini Kundini Quarry 
of Bhilal Steel Project, Post Omce Ahiwara , District Durg , and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute of adjudication ; 


section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Bhilai Steel Project is justified in denying the 
benefit of mines allowance to its workmen employed at Nandini Kundini quarry 
and if not , to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 

[No. F . 22 / 42 / 64 -LR .I.] 
S . O . 1485 . — Whercas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the New Tetturya Colliery 
of Messrs Tentulia Khas Collleries Limited , Post Office Malkera , District Dhanbad 
and Messrs Karamchand Thapar and Brothers ( Private ) Limited , Thapar 
House , 25 Brabourne Road , Calcutta , of the one part and their workmen 
of the nther part, in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - sec 
clon ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


870 8 ( li ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


1665 


SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether the action of the management of the New Tetturya Colllery 

of Messrs Tentulia Khas Collieries Limited and Messrs Karamchand 
Thapar and Brothers ( Private ) Limited , in dismissing S / Shri 
Shyamlal Dusad , Fireman , and Satnarayan Passi, Winding Engine 
Khalasi, from service with effect from the 13th February , 1965 , 

amounts to an act of victimisation ? 
(2 ) If so , to what relief are the workmen or either of them entitled ? 

[No. 1 /8 / 65-LRIL ] 
New Delhi, the 1st May 1965 
$ . 0 . 1486 .4Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Tarmi Colliery Company , 
Post Office Turiyo , District Hazaribagh , and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
rection ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether the termination with effect from the 6th May 1964 of the 

services of the following 28 workmen by the management of the 
Tarmi Colliery Company was justified ? If not, to what relief are 

the workmen entitled ? 
1 . Sukhram Bilaspuri. 

Sukhiram Bilaspuri. 
3 . Radheshyam Bilaspuri. 
4 . Duleshwari Kamin , 
5 . Suritram Bilaspuri. 
6 . Udayanath Munda. 
7. Sudhu Munda. 
8 . Bhagatram Bilaspuri. 
9 . Bodhnath Munda . 
10 . Sowna Munda, 
11 . Shanti Kamin . 
12. Butni Kamin . 
13 . Jagni Kamin . 
14 . Tulsi Urawn. 
15 . Soma Urawn . 
16 . Phagni Kamin . 
17. Mahangu Urwan . 
18 . Mahabir Bhunya . 
19. Ramsahi Bhunya . 
20. Lalia Kamin . 
21. Fulmani Kamin , 
22 . Barban Turi. 
23. Pachia Kamin . 
24 . Mahabir Turi. 
25 . Bilsi Kamin . 
26 . Keti Turi. 
27 . Sugia Kamin . 
28 . Janki Mahte . 
( 2 ) Whether the action of the management of the Tarmi Colliery Company 

in employing about 35 fresh hands with effect from the 28th Septem 
ber 1064 without offering those jobs to the old workmen (whose 
services were terminated with effect from the 23rd March 1964 and 
the 6th May 1984 ) was justified ? If not , to what relief are the said 
workmen entitled ? 

[No. 2 / 3 / 65 -LR .II. ) 
New Delhi, the 3rd May 1965 
S . O . 1487 , -— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
digpute exists between the employers in relation to the Sripur Colliery of Loadna 
Colliery Company ( 1920 ) Ltd . P . O . Kalipahari ( Burdwan ) and their workmen in 
respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


1666 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 / VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


[PART II 


And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the dismissal of the following 28 C . P . Miners of Sripur Colliery 

by the management of Loadna Colllery Company ( 1920 ) Ltd . with 
effect from the 8th November , 1961 was justified ? If not , to what 

relief are the workmen entitled ? 
1 . Ch . Şukdeo Pashi. 
2. Rajaram Pashi, 
3 . Chandi Pashi. 
4 . Bara Sukdeo Pashi. 
5 . Nankoo Paşhi, 
6 . Jodha Khatik . 
7 . Bhadai Khatik . 
8 . Mohan Khatik . 
9 . Hiralall Khatik . 
10 . Chhota Koiri. 
11 , Chaitu Kolri. 
12 . Johawir Kolri, 
13. Sew Nath Koiri, 
14 , Raghubir Koiri, 
15 . Maiku Koiri. 
16 . Dulare Koiri. 
17 . Chhedi Mia . 
18. Ramraj Rabidas. 
19. Ramjiwan Rabidas. 
20. Ramdaş Rabidag . 
21. Balgobind Koiri. 
22. Jagarnath Ahir . 
23 . Ram Abatar Koiri. 
24 . Lall Khatik , 
25 . Manbodh Kolri, 

[ No. 6 / 12 / 65 -LRII. ) 
H . C . MANGHANI, Under Secy . 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 3rd May 1966 
8 . O . 1488. - Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to Messrs Steelcrete ( Private ) 
Limited , Visakhapatnam and their workmen in respect of the matters specifled in 
the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the sald 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Hyderabad constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCH :HDULE 
1 . Whether the demand of the Union for removal from service of the two 

newly recruited Crane Drivers (Sarvashri Kanubhai Patel and G . 

Adinarayana ) is justified 
2. Whether the demand of the Union for removal of the two newly 

appointed riggers, ( Sarvashri Dilip Singh and Guru Dayal Singh ) is 

justified ? 
3 . Whether Sri G . Yellaiah , driver is entitled to driver s wages on the days 

when he worked as rigger ? If so , from what date ? 
4 . Whether the demand of the Union for payment of Rs. 10 per day to Sri 
M . M , Patel, Supervisor, is justified ? If so , from what date ? 

[ No . 28 / 31 /85 - LRIV .) 
O . P . TALWAR , Under Secy . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


M . 


8 , 


VAISA 


A 


18 , 


1667 


- 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM & CHEMICALS 

New Delhi, the 22nd April 1965 
S . O . 1489. Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from the drill sites to 
collecting stations within the Ankleshwar Oilfield in Gujarat State , Pipelines 
should be laid by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission and that for the purpose 
of laying such pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land 
described in the schedule annexed hereto . 

2 . Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to 
acquire the right of user therein . 

3 . Any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the date 
of this notification , object to the laying of the pipeline under the land to the 
Competent Authority at Lalitchandra Maganbhai Patel s Building. 4th floor, 
Sayaji Ganj, Lokmanya Tilak Road , Baroda, in the office of the Gujarat Pipeline 
Project (Oil and Natural Gas Commission ). Every person making such an 
objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person 
or by a legal practitioner . 


EDULE 


State - Gujarat 


District - Broach 


Taluka — Ankleshwar 


Village 


Survey No. 


Area required 

in Guntha. 


Umarvada . 


282 
28111 
284 / 3 
327 
326 
289 
324 , 
323 / 1 


0 : 154 
O 10 
0 : 30 
05 
0 . 67 
O 
O II 
0 . 19 
0 15 


308 


07 


306 1 
306 / 2 


. 


310 


0 : 11 + 
0 . 1 
0 . 14 


...................... 


0 . 6 % 


0 : 15 
0 - 18 
0 . 8 


305 
304 
296 
298 
215 / 2 
ZII 
212 
213 
210 
206 / 2 


O 





z 


203 


0 : 87 
O 167 
0 : 18 
0 . 18 


202 


Adol 


549 


..... 


ܚܪܟ6ܚܘܶ܀ܚܘ 


.... 


524 
495 


1668 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 1965 / VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


PART T 


- 


Village 


Survey No. 


Area required 

in Gunthe 


Adol , 


• 


3 . 8 


6 . 3 


494 
496 
492 
490 


II . O 


29 . 0 


482 


449 
478 


2 . 5 


451 


O S 


452 


10 0 


453 
454 


12 . 5 


8 .0 
7 .8. 


457 


456 
417 ( a ) 
417 ( b ) 


459 
416 


402 


413 
404 
403 
405 
349 
347 


26 - 5 


617 ) 


13 : 5 


18 : 0 


20 . 0 


615 ) 
614 
631(1) 
6312) 
635 
638 
640 (3 ) 
641 
642 
643 
644 
532 
531 
527 


7 . 5 


. 


5 0 


17 . 0 
23 : 0 
12 . 5 
20 0 
10 : 00 


525 & 


524 


Pilodra 


4 . 2 


14 . 3 


15 5 


248 
249 
244 
243 
235 
224 
228 
227 


27. 0 
15. 5 


40 
17 0 


ojuo 


234 


14 -6 


Telva 


Village panchayat 

Road 
( 29 

30 / 1 
2811 


25 . 7 . 
147 
14 1 
8 . 9 


221 


8 . 4 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 
, 


20 
19 


II O 


9 : 5 


G . , 


OF . 


A : MAY 8 , 


/VAISAKHA 18 , 


1669 


Village 


Survey No. 


Arca required 

in Guntba . 


Telva - contd . 


...... 


1 . 6 
14 7 
24 . 2 

3 : 1 
13 . 3 


166 / I 
166 / 2 
165 


4 . 2 


Hajat 


.. 


137 
Village panchayat 

Road 
137 


IO O 


138 
139 


147 


146 


53 
19 0 
II O 
17 . 0 
II S 

6 . 0 
28 . 5 


ISI 


151 


152 


................... 


125 
199 
19711 
197/ 2 
198 


comoo 


ouoouoouwoviowoo 


18 


8 . 0 


183 
182 
178 
137 
6513 
6611 
7412 
74/ 3 


Sarthan 


23 . 0 


15 0 


130 


22 0 


90 


.............. 


93/ 1 
93 /2 


8 . 0 
18 . 3 


92 


19 . 5 


91 

16 
117 


16 . 0 
14 - 0 


120 


I21 


24 . 0 


27 . 0 


[ No. 31 / 67 / 63 - ONG.] 


New Delhi, the 27th April 1965 
S . O . 1490 . — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S . O , No . 809 dated the 5th February , 1965 
under sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of 
Right of User in Land ) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government declared 
its intention to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule 
appended to that notification for the purpose of laying pipelines ; 

And whereas the Competent Authority has, under sub - section (i) of section 
8 of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And , whereas , the Central Government has , after considering the said report , 
decided to acquire the right of user in lands specified in the Schedule appended 
to this notification ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( i ) of 
section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 


. . . 


. 


8 , 


IV. 


, 


18 , 


LE . 


. . . 


is hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by sub - section (4 ) of that Section , the Central Government directs that 
the right of user in the said lands, shall instead of vesting in the Central Gov 
ernment vest on the date of publication of this declaration in the Indian Ou 
Corporation Limited free from all encumbrances . 


State - West Bengal 


SCHEDULE 
Distt - Midnapore 


Thana - - Panshkura 


Village 


Extent 


Survey 

Nos. 
(Plot nos.) 


Survey 

Nos . 
( Plot Nos.) 


Extent 
(Area ) 


(Area ) 


Babua, J. L . 190 


. 


Barisha , J. L . 289 - contd . 


* I2 
•ΙΟ 
. 22 


161 
162 
300 
315 


* O2 
- OI 
02 


22 


317 


- 02 


ZI 


318 


08 


нянняневими 


319 


"OI 


321 


03 


Barisha , J. L . 289 


. 


324 


- 03 


II 


743 


IO 


. IO 
- 05 


* 03 
. II 


[ No. 31 ( 33 ) / 63 -ONG .Vol. 9. ] 
New Delhi, the 28th April 1965 
S . O . 1491. . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni 
Refinery in Bihar State and Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh State pipelines should be 
laid by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and that for the purpose of laying 
such pipelines , it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described 
in the schedule annexed hereto ; 


2 . Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of 
section of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) 
Act, 1962 (50 of 1962 ), the Central Government hereby declares its intention 
to acquire the right of user therein , 


3 . Any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the date 
of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority at 7 / 168 , Swarupnagar, Kanpur. Every person making 
such an objection shall also state specifcally whether he wishes to be heard in 
person or by a legal practitioner , 


SCHEDULE 
District -- Allahabad 


Ştate - Uttar Pradesh 


Tahsil - - Chail 


Village 


Survey 

No. 


Extent 


B - B - B 
O - 1- 0 


Asadullapur Rohi 


1286 


[No. 31 / 50 / 63 -ONG - Vol. 8 . 1 


- . . G . OF . : MAY 8, . . NAISAKHA 18 , 1887 1671 

= = 

= = 
$ . 0 . 1192. — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S . O . No. 396 dated the 20th January , 1965 
under sub - section ( 1) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of 
Right of User in Land ) Act , 1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government declared 
its intention to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule 
appended to that notification for the purpose of laying pipelines; 


And whereas the Competent Authority has, under sub -section ( i) of section 
6 of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 


And, whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said report, 
decided to acquire the right of user in lands specified in the Schedule appended 
to this notification ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( i ) of 
section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notification 
is hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by sub -section ( 4 ) of that Section , the Central Government directs that 
the right of user in the said lands, shall instead of vesting in the Central Gov 
ernment vest on the date of publication of this declaration in the Indian Oil 
Corporation Limited free from all encumbrançes . 


SCHEDULE 
Distt - Burdwan 


State - West Bengal 


Thana – Asansol 


Village 


Village 


Survey 

Nos . 
(Plot nos .) 


Extent 
(Area ) 


Survey 


Nos. 


Extent 
(Area ) 


( Plot nos .) 


Dakshin Dad Ka, J.L . 15 


Ganrui, J. L . 47 


230 
242 
472 


03 
OZ 


1395 
1419 
1420 
1421 
1588 


476 


10 


02 
03 


- 03 


477 
478 


02 


os 
* 05 


481 
482 


Raghunathbati, J.L . 46 


07 


910 
925 


08 


HOI 


OI 


483 
484 
525 


•IO 


Ramjibanpur, J. L . 47 . 


410 


02 


. 005 


[ No. 31 ( 33 ) / 88 - ONG- Vol. 5.1 


S . O . 1493 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Governmnt that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Baraunt 
Refinery in Bihar State and Kanpur _ in Uttar Pradesh State pipelines should be 
laid by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and that for the purpose of laying 
such pipelines , it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described 
in the schedule annexed hereto ; 


2 . Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act , 
1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to 
acquire the right of user therein . 


3 . Any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the date 
of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority at 7 / 166 , Swarupnagar, Kanpur. Every person making 
such an objection shall also state specifcally whether he wishes to be heard in 
person or by a legal practitioner. 


1672 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 


[PA . II 


SCHEDULE 
District - Allahabad 


State - Uttar Pradesh 


Tahsil - Meja 


- - - 


Village 


Survey 
No. 


Extent 


B - B - B 


Kathauli 


Bisanjan Khurd 


: 


734 


356 00 15 


[No. 31 /50/ 63 -ONG - Vol.8. ) 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 26th April 1965 
$ . O . 1494. -- - In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of Indfa 
in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals $ . O . No. 891 dated the 8th March 
1965 published in the Gazette of India Part II , Section 3 , Sub - section ( ii ) dated 
the 20th March , 1965 in Village Jamira Thana No . 162 following Survey (Plot ) 
numbers with extent in acre shown against each shall be deleted : 


Survey ( Plot ) No. 


Extent in 

acre 


2931 
2932 
2933 
3055 
3064 
2994 
3056 


0 .025 
0 .025 
0 .02 
0 . 05 
0 .01 
0 . 002 
0 . 001 


[ No. 31 ( 47) / 83 - ONG- 2 / AR ] 


New Delhi, the 27th April 1965 
S . O . 1495 . - In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India In 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S . O . No. 819 dated the 2nd March 1985 
published in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section ( 1 ) dated the 
13th March , 1965 . 
(1) In Village Mahuli T . No. 107 against Survey No. 243 read extent 0 . 005 

acres instead of " 0 .00 " acres . 
(11) In village Bahadarpur T . No. 99 against Survey No. 1731 read extent 

" 0 . 10 " acres instead of " 0 .010" acres, 
(iil ) In village Hasanchak T . No. 95 against Survey No . 706 read extent 

0 : 195 acres instead of 0 : 19 acres and against Survey No. 707 read . 
extent " 0 .31" acres instead of " 0 .315 " acres . 

[No. 31 / 47 / 63- ONG - 12PAT. ): 


S . O . 1496 . - In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Petroleum & Chemicals S . O . NO. 817 dated the 2nd March , 
1965 published in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3, Sub - section ( i ) dated 
the 13th March , 1965 in village Bihat Thana No. 504 against extent " 0 . 13" acres , 
read Survey Plot No . 7273 instead of 7237. 

[ No . 31/ 47 /63 -ONG -10 Hath .) 


- - - 


Sec , 8 (11)] THE GA , OF A : MAY 8 , . Vou - 18 , 

- - 

- 
$ . 0 , 1497. - In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S . O , No. 814 dated the 2nd March , 
1965 published in the Gazette of India Part II , Section 3 , Sub - section (11) dated . 
the 13th March , 1965 . 
In Village Telwa Thana No. 29 ( Tola ) 

( 1) Against Survey No. 1355 read extent: 0 .17 acre instead of " 0 .175" acre. 
( 2 ) Against Survey No. 1441 read extent " 0 .035" acre Instead of " 0 .03" acres , 

[No. 31 /47 /63 -ONG -3A - JAS.] 
P. P . GUPTA , Under Secy . 


De verppointment 
nougese Indiese Tothe emer 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY & SUPPLY 
(Department of Industry) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 29th April 1965 
$ . 0 . 1498 . / IDRA / 6 / 21 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of 
the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 ( 65 of 1951) read with 
rules 5 ( 1 ) and 8 of the Development Councils ( Procedural ) Rules , 1952, the 
Central Government hereby appoints , till 31st March , 1966 , Shri G . R . Kadapa , 
to be a member of the Development Council established by the Order 
of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Industry, No. S .O . 1269 dated 
the 1st April, 1964, for the scheduled industries engaged in the manufacture or 
production of Textile Machinery and directs that the following amendment shall 
be made in the said Order, namely : 

In the said Order, for entry No. 16 relating to Shri T . S . Kunchithapatham , 
the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
16 . Shri G . R . Kadapa, Deputy Secretary , Ministry of Commerce , New 
Delhi. 

[No, 2 (5 ) / Dev. Councils / 64 .) 
C . BALASUBRAMANIAM , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Industries ) 
( Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 26th April 1965 
$ . 0 . 1499 , - In article covered by licence No. CM / L -639 held by M / s . Power 
Private Limited , Kalyan , the details of which are given in the Notification pub 
lished under S .O . 943 in the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 ( ii ) , dated 21 March 
1964 , the following has been included with effect from 1st April, 1965 ; 
PVC Insulated (Heavy Duty ) Armoured Cables for Working Voltages Up 
to and Including 1 100 Volts (With Aluminium Conductors only ) . 

[ No . MD / 12 : 1140 - A . ] 
New Delhi, the 28th April 1885 
S . O . 1500. - In pursuance of the provisions of sub - rule (2 ) of rule 3 of the Indian Standards 
Institution (Certification Marka ) Rules , 1955, as amended in 1962, the Indian Standards Institu 
tion hereby notifies that the Indian Standards particulars of which are given in the schedule bareto 
innexed have been established during the quarter ending 31 March , 1965. 

THE SCHEDULE 


Scrial 


No. of Indian Standard 


Title of Indian 


Standard 


No. 


I IS : 10 - 1964 
2 IS : 250 - 1964 


, 


, 


. 


Specification for Plywood Tea -Chests ( Second Revision ) 
Specification for Potassium Bichromate , Technical and . 

Analytical Regent (Revised ). 


N1674 


. 5 GA , 


, 


: 


A : MA 8 , 


VAISAKHA 18 , 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


Serial 
No . 


No. of Indian Standard 


Title of Indian Standard 


3 
4 


IS : 285 - 1964 
IS : 368 - 1963 


, 
. 


, 
, 


5 IS : 570 - 1964 


. 


. 


6 
7 


IS : 578 - 1964 
IS : 590 - 1964 


. 
. 


. 
, 


: 8 IS : 613- 1964 


, 


. 


9 IS : 614 - 1964 


. 


. 


10 IS : 659 - 1964 , . 
IIIS : 694 (Part I) - 1964 


12 IS : 694 (Part II) - 1964 


: 13 IS : 712 - 1964 
14 IS : 773 - 1964 


, 
, 


. 
, 


15 IS : 832 - 1964 
m $ (a ) IS : 927 - 1964 

16 IS : 990 - 1964 
17 IS : 991 - 1964 


. . 
. 
. . 
. 


, Specification for Laundry Soaps (Revised ). 
, Specification for Electric Immersion Water Heaters 

(Revised ). 
. Methods for Determination of Universal count of Jute 

Yarn (Revised ). 
. Specification for Full -ChromeUpper Leather ( Revised ) 
, Specification for Fixed Paper Dielectric Capacitors for 

DC (Revised ) . 
. Specification for Copper Rods for Electrical Purposes 

(Revised ). 
. Methods of measurements on Receivers for Amplitudo 

Modulation Broadcast Transmissions (Revised ). 
. Safety Code for Air Conditioning (Revised ). 
. Specification for PVC Insulated Cables ( For Voltagea 

Upto 1100 V ) Part I with Copper Conductors (Re 

vised ). 
. Specification for PVC Insulated Cables ( For Voltage 9 

Upto 1100 V ) Part II with Aluminium Conductors 

(Revised ), 
. Specification for Building Limes (Revised ). 
, Specification for Enamelled Cast Iron Water -Closets 

Railway Coaching Stock Type (Second Revision ). 
· Method for Determination of Twist in Yarn . 
. Specification for Fire Hooks (Revised ). 

Specification for Spoong, Stainless Steel (Revised ). 
. Specification for Spoons, Brass and Nickel Silver (Ro 

vised ) . 
. Specification for Water for Storage Batteries (Revised ) 
. Specification for Ferro Silicon (Revised ). 
. Specification for Spiegelelgen ( Revised ). 
. Specification for Ferro Manganese ( Revised ). 
, Specification for Outdoor Type Three - Phase Distribu 

tion Transformers upto and Including 100 KVA 

II KV (Revised ). 
. Specification for Mild Steel Tubes and Tubulars (Re 

vised ). 
. Method for Temperature Measurement of Petroleum and 

Its products , Part II, 
Specification for Door Mats-Rod ( Revised ). 
, Specification for Gypsum Plaster Boards. 
Code for Inland Packaging of Man - Made Fibre Fabrics 

and Man -Made Fibre Yarns . 
Specification for Rayon Mix Lining Cloth (Revised ). 
Specification for General Purpose Glass Thermometers. 


18 IS : 1069 - 1964 . 
19 I $ : 1110 - 1964 . 
20 IS : 1111- 1964 , 
21 IS : 1171- 1964 . 
22 IS : 1180 - 1964 , 


. 
, 


. 23 IS : 1239- 1964 . 
. 24 I$ : 1519 -(Part II)-1964 


25 IS : 1693 - 1964 , 
26 IS : 2095 - 1964 , 
. 27 IS : 2195- 1964 , 


, 
, 
. 


28 IS : 2228 - 1964 , 
29 IS : 2480- 1964 . 
30 IS : 2494 - 1964 
31 IS : 2669 - 1964 . 
32 IS : 2693 - 1964 . 
33 IS : 2709 - 1964 . 
34 IS : 2713 - 1964 . 


Specification for Milling Cutters for Woodcuff Keyslots 
• Specification for Cast Iron Flexible Couplings. 
. Guide for the Selection of Fits . 
. Specification for Tubular Steel Poles for Overhead 

Power Lines , 
, Specification for Myrobalan Extract. 


35 IS : 2716 - 1964 , 


, 


SEC, 3( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


1675 


Scrial No. of Indian Standard 
No. 


Title of the Indian 


Standard 


36 IS : 2742 - 1964 . 
37 IS : 2744 - 1964 . 
38 IS : 2745 - 1964 . 
39 IS : 2755 - 1964 . 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. Specification for Automotive Brake Lining . 

Specification for L - Naphthylamine . 
. Specification for Firemen s Helmets , 

Specification for Plain and Interlock Knitted Cotton 


Vests . 


40 IS : 2762 - 1964 , . 
41 IS : 2763 - 1964 , 
42 IS : 2768 - 1964 , , 
43 IS : 2772 -(Part -1)- 1964 


. 


45 
46 


IS : 2783 - 1964 . 
IS : 2792 - 1964 . 


47 IS : 2795 - 1964 . 
48 IS : 2798 - 1964 . 
49 IS : 2804 - 1964 . 
50 IS : 2807 - 1964 . 
51 IS : 2820 - 1964 . 
52 IS : 2821- 1964 , 
53 IS : 2822 - 1964 . 
54 IS : 2823 - 1964 . 
55 IS : 2826 - 1964 . 


56 IS : 2830 -1964 
57 IS : 2831- 1964 , 


. 


Specification for Wire Rope Slings and Sling Legs. 
Glossery of Terms Relating to Foundary Technology . 

Specification for Gilding Metal Strip for Bullet Enveloper 
. Specification for Non - Flameproof Mining Transfor 

mers for Use Below Ground 

Part I Oil Immersed Type. 
Specification for Tomatocs. 
. Specification for Worsted Balaclava Caps . 
Code of Practice for Design and Construction of Stone 

Slab over Joist Floor , 
Specification for Oil Pressure Stoves (Large). 
· Method of Test for Polyethylene Containers , 
, Dimensions for Palm Grips. 

Specification for Whipcord . 
Specification for Nylon Dobby Crepe. 
Specification for Thermo -sampler. 
Specification for Butter Moulding Machinc , 
Specification for Wire Healds for Jacquard Weaving . 
Dimensions for Wrought Copper and Copper Alloy 

Rods and Bars. 
Specification for Carbon Steel Billets for Re- rolling into 

Structrual Steel ( Standard Quality ). 
Specification for Carbon Steel Billets for Re- rolling into - 

Structural Steel (Ordinary Quality). 
. Specification for Nonload Bearing Gypsum Partition . 

Blocks (Solid and Hollow Types) 
Specification for Zinc oxide for Cosmetic Industry . 
Specification for Carpenters Augers . 
Method of Test for Determining Flexivity of Thermostat 

Metals . 
• Code of Practice for Roofing with Mangalore Tiles . 
. Specification for Diazinon Emulsifiable Concentrates . 
. Specification for Diazinon Water Dispersible Powder 

Concentrates . 
Specification for Chlordane Dusting Powders. 
. Specification for Methyl Parathion Emulsifiable Concen 

trates . 
. Specification for Charge Pump for Pressure , Retalning 

Knapsack Sprayer. 
. Specification for Branch Pipe, Universal, For Fire Fight- - 
. Specification for Branch Pipe, Universe 

ing Purposes. 
. Specification for Portable Fire Extinguishers, Carbon - .. 

Dioxide Type. 
. Specification for Mild Steel for Metal Arc Welding El- - 

ectrode Core Wire . 
. Specification for Dried and Laminated Bombay Duck .. 


58 


IS : 2849 - 1964 , 


. 


59 IS : 2850 -1964 
60 IS : 2852 - 1964 
61 IS : 2855 - 1964 . 


. 


62 IS : 2858 - 1964 . 
63 IS : 2861 - 1964 . 
64 IS : 2862 - 1964 . 


. 
. 
. 


65 IS : 2864 - 1964 , 
66 IS : 2865 - 1964 . 


. 
. 


67 IS : 2870 - 1964 . 


. 


68 IS : 2871- 1964 . 


.. 


. 


69 IS : 2878 - 1964 . 
70 IS : 2879- 1964 . 
71 I $ : 2884 - 1964 . 


. 
. 


1667 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 / VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


[Part II 


Serial 

No . 


No. of Indian 


Standard 


Title of Indian Standard 


72 IS : 2885 - 1964 . 
73 IS : 2890 - 1964 . 
74 IS : 2891- 1964 . 


. 


. 


75 IS : 2893- 1964 . 
76 IS : 2904- 1964 . 
77 IS : 2909 -1964 . 
78 IS : 2910 - 1964 , 
79 IS : 2936 - 1964 . 
80 IS : 2970 - 1964 , 


Specification for Frozen Frog Legs. 
Dimensions for Taper Handles for Machine Tools. 
Specification for Wooden Handles for Felling Axes and 

Hand Axes . 
Specification for Wooden Handles for Adzes , 
. Dimensions for Ball Handles , 

Dimensions for Star Grips . 
Specification for Shuttles for Jure Broad Looms. 
Specification for Seeds of Carrot. 
Specification for Cotton Fabrics for Supply -Dropping 

Parachutes , 


-- - - - 

- 

[No. MD /13 : 3 ] 
S . Q 1501 – In pursuance of sub -regulations ( 2 ) and (3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, as amended in 1961, 1962 and 1964 , 
the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Indian Standard (s ), particulars of which 
are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have been cstablished during the period 23 April to 27th 
April 1965. 

THE SCHEDULE 


Si. 
No. 


No , and Title of the 
Indian Standard 

Established 


Brief Particulars 


No. and Title of the 
Indian Standard 

or Standards, if any 
superseded by the new 

Indian Standard 


I 


2 


3 


IS : 171- 1964 Specification IS : 171 - 1951 Specification This standard prescribes count, 
for Cotton Yarn , Grey for Cotton Yarn , Grey count- strength - product (Fre 
(Revised ). 

( Tentative) . 

nch and yarn strength Index 
( YSI) of grey cotton yarn 
intended for use in powerlooms. 

(Price Rs. 1 : 50 ). 
IS : 247 - 1964 Specification IS : 247 - 1957 Specification This standard prescribes the 
for Sodium Sulphitc , Anhydrous Sodium requirements and themethods 
Anhydrous (Second 

Sulphite (Revised ). 

of sampling and test for sodium 
Revision ). 

sulphite , anhydrous. (Price 

Rå . 3 . 50 ). 
IS : 392 - 1964 Method for IS : 392 - 1952 Method for This standard prescribcs a 
Measuring the Water Ab - Measuring The Water method for measuring resistance 
sorption And Penetration Absorption and Pene- to wetting in terms of water 
In Water -Resistant Feb tration in Water -Rcsis absorbed ) and resistance to 
rics (Permeable to Air ) tant Fabrics ( Permeable penctration by water (in terms 
By a Bundesmann Type LO Air) Bya Bun of water penctrated ) of water 
Apparatus ( Revised ). desmann Type Appara resistant fabrics ( permcable 

tus ( Tentative ), 

to air ) by the Bundesman 

ntester (Price Rs. 2 . 50 ). 
IS : 928 - 1964 Specification IS : 928 - 1958 Specifica - This standard lays down the 
for Fire Bell (Revised ). tion for Fire Bell . 

requirements regarding ma 
terials , shape and dimensions 
manufacture , workmanship 
and finish , and performance 
test of 250 mm diameter fire 
bell . (Price Rs. 1 : 50 ). 


4 


1677 


SEC, 8 (ii)] 
= = - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 / VAISAKHA 18, 1887 
- - = = - - - Sr- = - = - = - 

S S 
3 

4 


5 IS : 1035- 1964. Methods of IS : 1035 - 1957 Methods This standard prescribes the 

Sampling And Test For of Sampling and Test methods of sampling and test 
Bleaching Earths (Revised ). for Bleaching Earths for bleaching carths. It 

Used for Decolorizing covers the methods for de. 
Vegetable Oils. 

termining moisture , bulk 
density , sieve analysis acidity 
or alkalinity , decolorizing 
power , filtrability , oil reten 

tion and ash , (Price Rs. 4 . 00 ). 
6 IS : 1543 -1964 Specification IS : 1843 - 1960 Specifica- This standard covers the re 

for Single Cylinder Fuel tion for single Cylinder q uirements for three types of 
Injection Pumps(Revised ). Fule Injection Pumps. single cylinder , constant strokc 

fuel injection plunger pumps 
without integral camshafto . 

(Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) . 
7 IS : 2106 (Part VII)- 1964 

This standard ( Part VII) gives 
Environmental Tests 

details of the procedure for 
for Electronic Equipment 

bump test as part of the 
Part VII : Bump Test , 

environmental testing of 
electronic equipment and 
other equipment employing 
similar techniques (Price Rs. 

I . 00 ). 
RIS : 2253 - 1964 Types of 

This standard covers types of 
Construction and Mounting 

construction and details of 
of Motors , 

mounting of motors of all 
types of enclosures ( Price 

Rs. 3 . 00 ), 
9 IS : 2470 (Part II) — 1964 

This code lays down the re 
Codeof Practice for Design 

commendations for the design , 
and Construction of Sep 

layout, construction and main 
tic Tanks, 

tenance of septic tanks and 
Part II Large Installations, 

includes methods of treatment 
and disposal of septic tank 
effluent. It is applicable to 
residental housing colonics, 
hostels , boarding schools 
where the number of users 
range from 50 to 300. Capa 
cities and sizes required for 
50, 100 , 140 , 200 and 300 per 
sons are recommended to 
facilitate selection of sizes of 

seputic tanks. (Price Rs. 3 . 00 ). 
10 IS : 2542 ( Part I)- 1964 

This standard covers the me 
Methods of Test for Gyp 

thods for carrying out the 
sum Plaster, Concrete 

following tests on gypsum 
and Products , 

Plaster and gypsum concrete 
Part I Plaster 
Concrete , 

Method of test 

Clause 

No 
( a ) Normal consistency of 

gypsum plasters 
(6 ) Normal consistency of 

gypsum concrete 
( c ) Setting time of plasters 

and concrete 
( d ) Transverse strength of 
gypsum plasters 


ani. ] 


- 


- 


- 


1678 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 / VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


[Part II 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


( ) Compressive strength of 
gypsum plaster 

Soundness of gypsum 
plaster 
(8 ) Mechanical resistance of 
gypsum plaster 

IO 
( ) Freedom from coarse 
particles 

II 
G ) Expansion of plaster 

h ) Sand in set plaster 13 
( m ) Wood fibre content in 
woodfibre gypsum plaster 14 


IZ 


II 


IS : 2566 - 1963 Specifi - 


This standard 


prescribes 


the 


IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification 
( Revised ) 


12 


IS : 2740 - 1964 Specifica 
tion for Sulphanjlic Acid , 
Technical 


Requirements for Taxi 
meters . 


14 


IS : 2897 - 1964 Specifica 
tion for Earthenware 
Dinnerware 


19 


IS : 2860 - 1964 Methods of 
Sampling and Test for 
Processed Fruits and 
Vegetables 
IS : 2880 - 1964 Specifica 
tion for Pressure Sensitive 
Adhesive Cellulose Tape 


Bags (For Packing Food - other particulars of B - Twill jutc 
grains ) 

bags of dimension II2 X 67 5 
cm ( or 44 X 267 in .) (Price Rs. 
2 : 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the 
requirements and the methods 
of sampling and test for 
sulphanilic acid , technical 
(Price Rs. 3 .00 ) 
This standard covers the per 
formance requirements for 
taximeters to determine char 
ges for hire of motor cabs . 

(Price Rs, 2 . 00 ) 
This standard prescribes the 
requirements and the methods 
of sampling and test for the 
dinnerware made of earthen 
ware (Price Rs, 1 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the 
methods of sampling and test 
for processed fruits and ve 

getables (Price Rs. 6 . 00 ) 
This standard prescribes tha 
requirements and the me 
thods of sampling and test 
for pressure sensitive adhe 
sive cellulose tapes suitable 
for temporary applications . 
(Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) 
This standard prescribes the 
requirements and methods of 
test for the material commer 
cially known as barytes 
intended for the preparation 
of barlum compounds and 
for oil well drilling (Prlet 
Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes cons. 
tructional details and other pg . 
ticulars of hand -made came) 
hair druggets for export 
(Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 


16 


17 IS : 2881- 1964 Specifica 

tion for Barytes for 
Chemical Industry and 
Oil Well Drilling 


18 


IS : 2882 - 1964 Specification 

for Camel Hair Druggets 
for Export, 


CÆC , 3 ( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 / VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


1679 


- - - 


- - 


- - - - - - - - 


- - - - 


- 


19 IS : 2886 - 1964 Specification 

for Labelling Paste for 
Automatic Machines . 


This standard prescribes the rt 

quirements and the methods of 
sampling and test for labelling 
paste to be uged on automatic 
machines. (Price Rs. 2 00 ) : 
This standard prescribes specifica 
tions for different grades / classen 
of raw wool for internal con 
sumption . (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 


20 IS : 2900 - 1964 Specification 

for Different Grades ) . 
Clasics of Raw Wool for 

Internal Consumption , 
21IS : 2901- 1964 Specification 

for Handloom Woollen 
Blanket, Scarlet. 


22 IS : 2917 - 1964 Specification 

for Umbrella Riba , 


23 


IS : 2919 - 1964 Specification 

for Umbrella Fittings . 


24 IS : 2920 - 1964 Specification ) 

for Umbrellas. 


25 


IS : 2929 - 1964 Spcification 

for Bushes for Bottom 
Shaft , Rocking Shaft and 
Crank Shaft Used on 

Plain Calico Looms. 
IS : 2947 - 1954 Specification ) 

for V - Blocks. 


26 


structional details and other 
particulars of handloom woollen 
blanket , scarlet . (Price 

Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
This standard covers the require 
ments for finished umbrella 
ribs , both main and stretcher 

(Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
This standard covers the require 
ments for umbrella fittings 
namely , runner, notch , cap and 

ferrule . (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
This standard covers the require 
ments for complete umbrellas . 

(Price Rs. I . 50 ) 
This standard prescrites the 

requirements of bushes for 
bottom shaft , rocking sheft ond 
crank shaft used on plain calico 
overrick loumg. (Price Rs. I 00 ) 
This standard specifies the sizes 
and accuracies of two grades 
namely , Grade A and Grade B 
of V - Blocks . It applics to 
ejther single V - Blocks or 
matched pairs of both grades . 

(Price Rs . 2 . 00 ) . 
This standard prescribes the re 

quirements and the methods 
of test for vegctable tanned 
leather used for flat and round 
Icather beltings . ( Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) 
This standard covers the requirc 
monts for material, monu 
facture and workmanship , 
nominal sizes and dimensions, 
and finish of non - ferrous waste 
fittings used in wash -basing 
and sinks (Price Rs. I 50 ) 
This standard prescribes methods 

for the detection and cstimation 
of damage in cotton fibres due 
to micro - organisms. Price 

Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
( 1 ) Section A applics to internal 

micrometers of a measuring 
range up to 600 mm . comprising 
a measuring head , extension 
rods with or without spacing 
collars and , in the smaller sizes 
a handle . (Rs. 300 ) 


27 


IS : 2951- 195.1 Specification 

for Vegetable Tannncd 
Leather for Belting. 


28 IS : 2963- 1964 Specification 

for Non - Ficrrous Waste 
Fittings for Wash - Basina 
And Sinks , 


29 IS : 2954 - 1954 Methods for 

Dotoction and Estimation 
of Damage in Cotton 
Fibres due to Micro 

Organisms. 
30 IS : 2715 - 1965 Snecification 

for Internal Micromitres 
(including Stick Micro 
meters ), 


1680 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 8 , 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 


[PART II 


. . . 


. 


- 


- 


- - 


( 3 ) 


( 2 ) Section B applies to stick mic 

rometers , which are designed for 
the mcasurement of Inger 
internal lengths and comprise 
the following parts : 


( a ) A 150 -mm or 300 -mm micro 


micrometer of 25 mm range 
and having rounded termi 
nal faces , and 


(6 ) A series of extension rods 

which together with the 
micrometer unit, permit of a 
continuous range of measure 
mcnt up to the maximum 
length required . 


37 IS : 2957 - 1964 Specification 

for ExternalMicrometers . 


This standard relates to external 
micrometer of a measuring 
range of 25 mm and unit of 
graduation of o . o1 mm , used 
in general engineering practice . 
(Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 


32 IS : 2977 - 1965 Methods for 

Determination of Dimen . 
tional changes of 
woven fabrics (Other than 
Wool) on Soaking in 

Water . 
33 IS : 2997 -1965 Recommen 

dation for Direction of 
oneration of Controls for 
Machine Tools, 


This standard prescribes a me 
thod for determination of dimen 
sional changes of woven fabrics 
other than made of wool, on 
soaking in water. Price Rs. I 50 
This standard lays down the 

direction of operation of con 
trols for setting in motion cor 
responding machine tools parts 
when the controls are hand 
operated . (Price Re. I 00 ) 


34 IS : 2995 - 1965 Dimensions 


This standard specifies the mate 

rial and dimensions for get 


shafts from 2 mm to 200 mm 
diameter and in the heavy series 
for shafts from 10 M to 150 
mm diameter (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 


35 


IS : 3000 - 1965 Speclication 

for Seeds of Turnip 


This standard prescribes the ic 

quircments for geeds of turnip 
( Brassica rapa L ) (Price 

Re. 1 .00) 
This standard prescribes the re 

quirements for seeds cf 
radish (Raphanus Sativus 1 ) 
(Price Re. 1 . 00 ). 


6 


IŞ : 3072 - 1965 Specification 

for Seeds of Radish . 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available for sale , with the Indian Standards Institution 
Manak Bhavan , 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg , New Delhi- 1 and also its branch offices at (1) Bombay 
Mutual Terrace, First Floor, 534 Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Road , Bombay - 7 , ( it ) Third and Fourth 
Floors, 5 Chowringhce Approach , Clacutta - 13 , ( 111 ) Second Floor, Sathyamurthy Bhavan , 54 
General Pattere Road, Madras - 2 and (iv ) 14 /69 Civil Lines , Kanpur. 

INo. M . D ./13 :2 ) 


SEC, 3(1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1965 /VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 1 681 

- - - - - - - 

- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - . . . = = = = = = 

New Delhi, the 29th April 1965 
S . O . 1502 – In pursuance of sub - regulation (3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standard 
Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations , 1955 , as amended in 1961 , 1962 and 1964, the Indian 
Standards Institution hereby notifies that the marking fee per unit for Rousted Chicory Powder 
details of which are given in the She lule hereto annexed , has been determined and the fee shall 
come into force with cllect from I May 1965. 

THE SCHEDULE 


- 


- - - 


- . . 


si. 


Product/Class of Products 


No. and title uf relevant 

Indian Standard 


Unit 


Marking Fee per Unit 


No . 


(3) 


1. Roasted Chicory Powder 


Rs. 


2 . 00 


S : 612 - 1962 Specifica - One Metric 
tion for Roasted Chicory Tonne 
Powder . 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


[No. MD/ 18 i 2 .) 
D . V . KARMARKAR , 

Jt. Director (Marks ) . 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - . 
CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 28th April 1965 
S . O . 1503. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
122 of the Income- tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961 ) and of all other powers enabling 
It in that behalf and in supersession of all the previous notifications in this regard , 
the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby directs that the Appellate Assistant 
Coinnissicners of Income-tax of the Ranges specified in column 1 of the Schedule 
below , shall perform their functions in respect of all persons and incomes assessed 
to Income- tax or Super - tax in the Income- tax Circles, Wards and Districts speci 
fled in the corresponding entry in column 2 thercoſ : 

SCHEDULE 
- - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - . 
Range 

Income-tax Circles, Wards and Districts.. 
I 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
A -Range, Hyderabad . 

1 . A -Ward . Hyderabad . 
2 . I. T .- cum - W . T .I, Hyderabad , 
3 . C -Ward , Hyderabad , 
4 . I. T . -cum - W . T . III, Hyderabad . 
5 . Salaries Circle , Hyderabad . 
6 . Nizamabad 

7 . Khammam . 
B -Range, Hyderabad . 

1. Special Investigation Circle, Hyderabad . 
2 . B -Ward , Hyderabad , 
3 . I. T . - cum - W . T . II, Hyderabad . 
4. Companies Circle , Hyderabad . 
5 . M . P . Þ . Circle, Hyderabad . 
6 . Special Survey Circle I, Hyderabad . 
7. Special Survey Circle II, Hyderabad . 
8 . Warangal, 
9 . Karimnagar. 
10. Mahboobnagar. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


1682 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8, 1968 / VAISAKHA 18 , 1887 

- -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - - 


[PART II 


- -- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


Visakhapatnam . 

1 . Visakhapatnam . 
2 . Vizianagaram . 
3 . Anakapalli . 
4 . Srikakulam , 
5 . Ramachandrapuram . 
6 . Kakinada, 

7 . Palakol, 
Rajahmundry . 

1. Rajahmundry . 
2 . Tenali. 

3 . Eluru . 
Nellore. 

1 . Nellore , 
2 . Mica Circle, Nellore . 
3 . Chittoor. 
4 . Tirupathi. 
5 . Baptla . 
6 . Cuddapah , 

7 . Proddatur. 
Anantapur, 

] . Anantapur. 
2 . Adoni, 

3 . Kurnool. 
Vijayawada. 

1 . Vijayawada , 
2 . Masulipatam , 
3 . Guntur. 
4 . Gudivada. 

- - - 
Where an Income- tax Circle , Ward or District or part thercof stands trans 
ferred by this notification from one Range to another Range, appeals arising out 
of assessments made in that Income- tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereof 
and pending immediately before the date of this notification before the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of Income- tax of the Range from whom that Income 
tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereof is transferred shall, from the date 
of this notification shall take effect , be transfrred to and dealt with by the Appcllate 
Assistant Commissioner of the Range to whom the said Circle , Ward or District 
or part thereof is transferred . 

This notification shall take effect from the 14th May , 1965 . 


Explanatory Note 
The amendments have become necessary on account of creation of a new 
Range known as Rajahmundry Range in the Commissioner s Charge and transfer 
of Headquarters of AAC , Kurnool to Anantapur. 

( This note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be merely 
clariAcatory .) 

[No. 33 (F . No. 50 /53 /65 -ITJ). ] 

T . N . PANDEY , Under Secy . 


* 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - - - -- 
PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NI W DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1965 


