4 ° ifto aaa 


f 

9lRcT ^fr 

JTbe (gazette of <3ndia 

snfHWT p swif«n 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


«« 12 ] *$ fifWft, 5 T^WTt, RT«f 23 , 1968 /RR 3 , 1890 

No. is] NEW DBLH 1 , SATURDAY, MARCH 23, I8««/CHAITRA 3, 1890 


I r rir fViw rwt <V <nmf t f»m% f * mi *mn tfawi if xm «it i 

Separate paglnf la flreu to this Part in'order that It may be filed 
as a separate compilation. 


tfeR 

NOTICE 

foS RIYR $ WOTstlUfl 11 BT#, 196 8 SWlfom foR : — 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published up to the nth March, 

1968. 


Issue No, and Date Issued by Subject 

No, 


63 


S.O. 808, dated 28th Feb- 
ruary, 1968 


Ministry of Com- 
merce. 


Furlhcr amendment to the Exports 
(Control) Order, 1962. 


64 S.O. 809, dated 28th Feb- MinistryofFinar.ee 
ruary, 1968. 


The Finance Commission (Salaries 
and Allowances) Amendment 
Rules, 1968. 


65 


S.O. 810, dated 29th Feb- 
ruary, 1968. 


Ministry of Com- 
merce 


66 ^ETo sfto 811, ftTRt favT WWT 
29 1968, 


Delegation of powers, in relation to 
all commodities other than food- 
stuffs and fertilizers, to the com- 
missioner of Civil Supplies, 
Madras. 

favi srrtfT'T tpf ipimi i 


S.O. 812, dated 29th Feb- MinistiyofFirar.ee 
ruary, 1968 


Constitution of a Finarce Com- 
mission, 


67 S.O. 813, dated 29th Feb- 
ruary, 1968. 


Central Board of 
Direct Taxes. 


The Income-tax (Amendment) 
Rules, 1962. 


( I58 i ) 








1582 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 25, 1968/CHAITRA 8 , 1890 [Part II- 


Issue 

No, and Date 

Issued bv 

Subject 

No. 





68 S.O. 814, dated and March, Ministry of Finance The Punjab Reorganisation (Re- 

1968. moval of Difficulties) Order No, 

j of 1968. 

69 S.O. 815, dated 4th March, Ministry of Inform*- Approval of the film as specified 

1968. tionand Broadcast- therein. 

ing. 


70 S.O. 8 r 6, dated 4th March, Ministry of Com- Extending the period of manage- 
r968. merce. ment of the Pratap Spinning, 

Weaving and Manufacturing 
Company Limited., Amalner 
(Maharashtra) for a further 
period of one year from the 4th 
March, 1968. 

71 S.O. 920, dated 5th March, Ministry of Labour, Reserve Bank of India Award, 1968. 
1968. Employment and 

Rehabilitation. 


72 


S. O. 921, dated 8th March, Election Commission 
1968. of India. 


Appointment of dates for the 
election to the Council of States 
of Andhra Pradesh. 


S.O. 922, dated 8th March, Do. 

1968. 


Designating the Secretary, Andhra 
Pradesh Legislature Depart- 
ment, Hyderabad to be the Re- 
turning Officer for the above 
biennial election to tne Council 
of States (.S.O. 921). 


S.O. 923, dated 8th March, Do. 

1968 . 


S.O. 924, dated 8th March, Do. 

1968. 


73 S.O. 925, dated 8th March, Ministry of Law. 
1968. 


Appointment of the Assistant Sec- 
retary of Andhra Pradesh Legis- 
lature (Committees) Depart- 
ment, Hyderabad to assist the 
Returning Officer for the above 
biennial election to the Council 
of States (S.O. 921). 

Fixation of hours for the above 
biennial election to the Connell 
of States (S.O. 921'). 

Calling upon the elected member® 
of the Legislative Assembly of 
the State of Andhra Pradesh to 
elect six members to fill the 
seats of members of the Council 
of States retiring on 2nd April, 
1968. 


74 S.O. 926, dated 8th March, Do. 

1968. 


75 S.O. 937, dated 8th March, Ministry of Com- 
1968. merce. 


The Admission as Advocates 
(.Training and Examination) 
Rules, 1968. 

The Exports (Control) Order, 1968. 


76 S.O. 928, dated 1 ith March, Election Commission Calling upon the members of the 
1968. of India. electoral college of Delhi to 

elect a member to the Council 
of States and the appointment of 
dates for the biennial election. 





*IC. S(H)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 2J, 1968/CHAITRA 5, 1890 1583 


Issue No. and Date 

No. 

Issued by 

Subject 

S. O.929, dated nth March, 
.1968. 

Election Commission Designating Shri R.K. Baweja 
of India. Secretary, (Law and Judicial), 

Delhi Administration, Delhi to 
be the Returning Officer for the 
above biennial election to the 
Council of States, (S.O. 928). 

'S.O. 930, dated nth March, 
1968. 

Do. 

Appointment of Shri D.S. Faugdar, 
Under Secretary (Medical), 

Delhi Administration Delhi, to 
assist the Returning Officer for 
the above biennial election to the 
Council of States, (S.O. 928). 

S.O. 931, dated nth March, 
1968. 

Do. 

Fixation of hours for the above 
biennial election to the Council 
of States, (S.O. 928). 

77 S.O. 932, dated nth March, 
1968. 

Do, 

Calling upon the elected members 
of the Legislative Assembly of 
Jammu and Kashmir to elect a 
member to the Council of States 
and the appointment of dates for 
the biennial election. 

S.O. 933, dated nth Match, 
1968. 

Do. 

Designating the Secretary, 

Jammu and Kashmir Legislative 
Assembly, Jammu to be the Re- 
turning Officer, for the above 
biennial election to the Council of 
States, (S.O. 932). 

S.O. 934 , dated nth March, 
1968. 

Do. 

Appointment of the Deputy Secretary, 
Jammu and Kashmir Legislative 
Assembly, Jammu to assist the 
Returning Officer for the above 
biennial election to the Council of 
States, (S.O. 932). 

S.O. 935, dated nth March, 
1968. 

Do. 

Fixation of hours for the above 
biennial election to the Council 
of States (S.O. 932). 

•78 S.O. 936, dated nth March, 
1968. 

Do. 

Calling upon the elected members 
of the Legislative Assembly of 
each State or as the case may be, 
the members of the Electoral 
College of each Union Territory, 
mentioned in the table therein, 
to elect the member or members 
specified against that State or 
Union Territory, to the Council 
of States and appointment of 
dates for the biennial election. 

S-O. 937. dated rth March, 
1968. 

Do. 

Designating Returning Officer, and 
appointing Assistant Returning 
Officer respectively for each 
State mentioned in the table 
therein for the above biennial 
election to the Council of States, 
(S.O, 936 ). 

S.O. 938, dated nth March, 
1968. 

Do. 

Fixation of hours for the above 
biennial election to the Council 
of States, (S.O. 936). 




1584 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 28, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Part II— 


Issue 

No. 

No. and Date 

Issued by 

Subject 

79 

S.O. 939, dated nth March, 
1968. 

Ministry of Law 

Biennial elections to the Co unci! 
of States — 1968. 

80 

S.O. 940, dated nth March, 
1968. 

Do. 

Biennial elections to the Cctircil 
of States — 1968. 

81 

S.O. 998) dated nth March, 
1968. 

Ministry of Com- 
merce. 

Authorising certain high 0 flScer*. 
mentioned therein 10 made com- 
plaints in writing in CouitB in 
respect of any offence punishable 
under Section 5 of the Import* 
and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 
(18 of 1947). 

82 

S.O. 999, dated nth March, 
196S. 

Do. 

Constituting certain authorities for 
The purpose of hearing appeal* 
specified therein. 


am fniJ wrnm®r TTTprcff srfcrat JT'prmr fafaH fenft % tut 
iftm qr ?ft sritrift i *rt*Tcnr $ tth uamf % arrft nrf drftw 
1 0 fcjT $ tfRrc Bfnr Tif^t* i 

Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied «nr 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should b» 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue at 
these Gazettes. 


*m II — m* 3 — (ii) 

PART II— Section 3— Sub-section (ii) 

(tott RtTTHh pfhprc) htea mvir $ n'wroiff (h«i MSI nUflOT 

•iNftq STftnmff ffm wuft faq nq f^fbrv wt*5t sftr uftrcwmf i 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 27th February 1968 

S.O. 1007. — In pursuance of section 1 16C (2) (b) of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the order pro- 
nounced on the 2nd February, 1968, by the Supreme Court of India, New Delhi, 
in Election Petition No, 10 of 1967. 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 
Civil Appeal No. 1693 of 1967 

Smt. Sahodrabai Ral Appellant 

Versus 

Ram Singh Aharwar Respondent 

JUDGMENT 

Hidayatullah, J, — This is an appeal against the judgment of the High Court 
of Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur, dated September 21, 1967, dismissing the Elec- 
tion petition filed by the appellant on the preliminary ground that a proper copy 



Sic. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 1585 


of the election petition was not served upon the answering parties. The facts 
,of the case are as follows : 

Thy appellant was a candidate for election to the Sagar Lok Sabha Scheduled 
Castes Constituency No. 24. The election took place on February 20, 1967. There 
were tinec other contesting candidates of whom the first respondent secured the 
largest number of votes and was declared elected, The appellant secured the 
second largest number of votes, her votes being less by just under 300 than the 
successful candidate’s votes- An election petition was thereafter filed by the 
appellant on April 5, 1967. In this election petition the appellant challenged 
the election of the first respondent on four grounds. They were (a) wrongful 
acceptance of his nomination paper, (b) corrupt practice inasmuch as he appeal- 
ed to rebgious thiough a pamphlet marked Annexure ‘A’, (c) undue influence, 

and (d) breaches of the Act and Rules. The pamphlet to which reference is 
made was styled Bhayankar Vajraghat and was published by Sarvadaliya 
Goraksha Mahabhiyan Samiti, Deori Kalan Branch. It charged the party of the 
appellant namely the Congress with encouraging cow-slaughter and offending the 
Hindu Sentiment Details were given In it of the number of animals slaugh- 
tered every day in Madhya Pradesh and elsewhere and blamed the Congress 
with being a party to the practice, In the body of the election petition a trans- 
lation in English of the Hindi pamphlet was incorporated. The original pamph- 
let was attached to the election petition and was marked ‘Annexure “A".’ The 
election petitioner proceeded to say in her petition “it forms part of the petition”. 

When parties appeared the first respondent filed his written statement in 
great detail. He dealt with this pamphlet and answered the allegations of the 
election petitioner in relation thereto paragraph by paragraph. As a result of 
these pleas a number of issues were raised on July 18, 1967. No issue was raised 
in regard to the service of a defective copy of the election petition upon the res- 
pondent in general and the first respondent in particular. However, on August 
3, 1967, a special objection was made by the first respondent claiming that the copy 
of the pamphlet had not been annexed to the copy of the election petition serv- 
ed upon him and therefore the election petition was liable to be dismissed in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 86 of the Representation of the People 
Act. A detailed reply to this objection was given by the election petitioner. 
She stated that this was an after-thought inasmuch as the translation of the 
pamphlet was incorporated in the election petition and the allegations regarding 
The pamphlet had been answered in detail by the answering respondent- The 
Court thereupon framed an additional issue on August 4, 1967, The issue ran 
as follows: 

“Whether the election petition is liable to be dismissed for contraven- 
tion of Section 81(3) of the Representation of the People Act, 1651 as 
copy of Annexure ‘A’ to the petition was not given along with the petition 
for being served on the respondents”. 

Parties first filed a number of affidavits pro and con. Later the Court ordered 
attendance of the deponents for cross-examination. In this wav the appellant 
and her counsel who had filed a affidavits earlier were examined. Their case 
was that the copies of the election petition had been properly put together 
including in each copy an original pamphlet for service on the respondents. On 
the other side the first respondent and two others filed affidavits stating that 
when the copy of the election petition was received it was not accompanied by 
the pamphlet.' In their examination in court all maintained the same position 
and were cross-examined. The learned Judge trying the case also grdered the 
attendance of the Reader of the Deputy Registrar of the High Court who had 
dealt with the election petition and he was examined as Court witness No, 1. 
He stated that the copies of the petition were complete except that the pamphlet 
*was not annexed to each copy, He stated that he had noted at the time this fact 
but had treated the pamphlet as a document and not at an Annexure to the election 
petition. 

The learned Judge, on an appraisal of this material held that the copies of 
the election petition" served upon the respondents were not accompanied by the 
pamuhlet which was an Annexure to the election Petition. After examining th® 
law on the subject the learned Judge came to the conclusion that the election 
petition should be dismissed under Section 86 of the Representation of- the 
"People Act and he accordingly dismissed it with costs. No other issue which 
was struck between the parties was gone into because the election petition failed 
at the very threshold. 

In this appeal it is contended that the learned Judge was in error in thinking 
ithat the pamphlet ought to have accompanied the copies of the election petition 



1586 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 28, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Part II— 


or that the law required that it should have been annexed to the copy of the 
election petition served on the respondents. In this connection our attention 
was drawn to the provisions of the Representation of the People Act to which 
we shall refer presently. On the other side it was contended that whatever the 
meaning of the expressions “the election petition”, "annexures” or ‘'schedules” 
in the Act, the election petitioner by her own conduct had made this document a 
part of the election petition and therefore it was incumbent upon her to have 
served the whole of the election petition and not only a part of it as she did and 
therefore the order now appealed against was correct. Before we come to these 
rival contentions we find it necessary to refer first to the relevant provisions on the 
subject. 

S. 81 of the Representation of the People Act occurs in Chapter II which la- 
headed “Presentation of Election Petitions to Election Commission”. It provides- 
as follows: 

“Presentation of Petitions: 

(1) An election petition calling in question any election may be presented 
on one or more of the grounds specified in sub-section (1) of section 
100 and section 101 to the High Court by any candidate at such, 
election or any elector within forty-five days from, but not earlier 
than, the date of election of the returned candidate, or if there are 
more than one returned candidate at the election and the dates of 
their election are different, the later of those two dates. 

Explanation: —In this sub-section, elector means a person who was entitled 
to vote at the election to which the election petition relate*, 
whether he has voted at such election or not. 

• ♦ • • • 

(3) Every election petition shall be accompanied by as many copies there- 

1 to as there are respondents mentioned in the petition and every 

such copy shall be attested by the petitioner under his own sig- 
nature to be a true copy of the petition”. 

The first respondent draws pointed attention to the third — sub-section which, 
says that every election petition shall be accompanied by as many copies thereof 
as there are respondents mentioned in the petition and every such copy shall be 
attested by the petitioner under his own signature to be a true copy of the peti- 
tion Tire dispute therefore is whether the pamphlets could be described in this 
case as a part of the election petition. The answering respondent says that it is 
so and was considered to be so by the election petitioner herself when she stated 
that it was to be read as a part of the election petition. 

The matter, in our opinion. Is not to be resolved on how the election petitioner 
Viewed the matter but from the point of view of the requirement of the law on 
the subject. For this purpose we have to turn to Section 83 of the Representa- 
tion of the People Act which provides what the contents of the election petition, 
shall be. It reads as follows: — 

(1) An election petition — 

(a) shall contain a concise statement of the material facts pn which the 

petitioner relies; 

(b) shall set forth full particulars of any corrupt practice that the peti- 

tioner alleges, including as full a statement as possible of the 
names of the parties alleged to have committed such corrupt prac- 
tice and the date and place of the commission of each such prac- 
tice; and 

(c) shall be signed by the petitioner and verified in the manner laid 

down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), for the 
verification of pleadings. 

Provided that where the petitioner alleges any corrupt practice, the 
petition shall also be accompanied by an affidavit in the prescribed form 
in support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particular* 
thereof, 

(2) Any schedule or. annexure to the petition shall also be signed by the 

petitioner and verified In the same manner as the petition. 

The answering respondent herein again draws pointed attention to the fact that 
the schedules and the annexures to the petition are mentioned and they have to- 



Sec. 3(h)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 8, 1890 


1587 


be signed and verified in the same manner as the petition meaning thereby that 
as the election petitioner had made the pamphlet a part of the election petition 
she was required to sign and verify the pamphlet and also to serve a copy of it 
as required by sub-section (3) of section 81 when the election petition was 
served) He then relies upon section 86 which provides that the High Court shall 
dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of sec- 
tion 81, section 82 or section 117. 

An argument was raised in this case as to whether section 86(1) is mandatory 
or merely directory we need not go into this aspect of the case. In our opinion, 
the present matter can be resolved on an examination of the relevant facts and 
the contents of the election petition as detailed in section 83 reproduced above. 
It may be pointed out here that the trial of election petition has to follow as far 
as may be the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. We are therefore of 
opinion that it is permissible to look into the Code of Civil Procedure to see what 
exactly would have been the case if this was a suit and not a trial of an elec- 
tion petition. 

Under the Code of Civil Procedure a suit is commenced by a plaint. This is 
provided by O.IV, r. 1 which says that every suit shall be instituted by present- 
ing a plaint to the Court. After the plaint is received O, V. provides the summon- 
ing of the defendants in the case and r. 2 of that order says that every summons 
shall be accompanied by a copy of the plaint, and if so permitted, by a concise 
statement. We then turn to the provisions of O. VII which deals with the contents 
of a plaint. The first rule mentions the particulars which must be in a plaint. It 
is not necessary to refer to them. The plaint has to be signed and verified. R, 9 
then provides that the plaintiff shall endorse on the plaint and annex thereto A 
list of documents, if any, which he has produced along with it and, if the plaint 
is admitted, shall present as many copies on plain paper of the plaint as there 
are defendants unless the Court by reason of the length of the plaint or the num- 
ber of defendants, or for any other sufficient reason, permits him to present a like 
number of concise statements of the nature of the claims made etc. It will be 
noticed here that what is required to be provided are copies of the plaint itself 
or the concise statement according to the number of defendants. There is no 
mention here of any other documents of which a copy is needed to he presented 
to the Court for service to the defendants. Then we come to r, 14 which states 
that where a plaintiff sues upon a document in his possession or power he shall 
produce It in court when the plaint is presented and shall at the same time 
deliver the document or a copy thereof to be filed with the plaint- It will 
be noticed that he is required to file one copy of the document and not as 
many copies as there are defendants in the case. It would therefore follow 
that a copy of the document is not expected to be delivered with the copy 
of the plamt to the answering defendants when summons is served on them. In 
the schedules to the Code of Civil Procedure we have got appendix B which pres- 
cribes the forms for summons to the defendants. There is only one form of sum- 
mons in appendix B, (Form No, 4) in which the copy of the negotiable instrument 
is to accompany the copy of the plaint. That is so, because of the special law 
applying to the negotiable instruments and the time limit within which pleas to 
that document have to be raised and this is only in summary suits. No other 
form makes any mention of any document accompanying the summons with the 
copy of the plaint. We need not go into more details. It is clear that the docu- 
ments which are filed with the plaint have to he accompanied by one copy of those 
documents. This Is because the copy is compared with llie original and the copy 
is endorsed by the clerk of court and the document is sometimes returned to the 
party to he produced into Court later. The copy takes the place of the document 
concerned and is not to he sent out to the parties with the plaint. 

We may now whether the election law provides anything different. The only 
provision to which our attention has been drawn is sub-section (3) of section 81 
and sub-section (2) of section 83. The first provides that every election petition 
shall be accompanied by as many copies thereof ag there are respondents men- 
tioned in the petition and that every such copy shall be an authenticated true copy. 
The words used here are only “the election petition”. There is no mention of 
any document accompanying the election petition. If the matter stood with only 
this sub-section there would be no doubt that what was intended to be served 
is only a copy of the election petition proper. Assistance is however taken from 
the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 83 which provides that any schedule 
or any annexure to the petition shall also be signed by the petitioner and verified 
In the same manner as the petition. It is contended that since the pamphlet was 
an annexure to the petition it was not only necessary to sign and verify it, but that 
It should have been treated as a part of the election petition itself and a copy 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1908/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Part II- 


served upon the respondents, In this way, non-compliance with the provisions 
of section 86(1) is made out. In our opinion, this is too strict a reading of the 
provisions. We have already pointed out that section 81(3) speaks only oi the 
election petition. Pausing here, we. would say that since the election itself repro- 
duced the whole of the pamphlet in a translation in English, it could be said that 
the averments wuh regard to the pamphlet were themselves a pait of the 
petition and therefore the pamphlet was served upon the respondents although 
in a translation and not In original- Even if this be not the case we are quite clear 
that sub-section (2) of section 83 has reference not to a document which is pro- 
duced as evidence of the averments of the election petition but to averments of 
the election petition which are put in not in the election petition but in the accom- 
panying schedules or annexures. We can give quite a number of examples from 
which it would be apparent that many of the averments of the election petition 
are capable of being put as schedules or annexures, For example the details of 
the corrupt practice therein the former days used to be set out separately in the 
schedules and which may in some cases be so done even after the amendment of 
the present law. Similarly, details of the averments too compendious for being 
included in the election petition may be set out in the schedules or annexures to 
the election petition. The law tfien requires that even though they are outside 
the election petition, they must he signed and verified, but such annexures or 
schedules are then treated as integrated with the election petition and copies of 
them must be served on the respondents if the requirement regarding service of 
the election petition is to be wholly complied with. But what we have said here 
does not apply to documents which are merely evidence in the case but which 
for reasons of clarity and to lend force to the petition are not kept back but pro- 
duced or filed with the election petitions. They are in no sense an integral part 
of the averments of the petition but are only evidence of those averments and m 
proof thereof. The pamphlet therefore must be treated as a document and not 
as a part of the election petition in so far as averments are concerned. When the 
election petitioner said that it was to be treated as part of her election petition she 
was merely indicating that it was not to be thought that she had nqt produced the 
document ' in time. She was insisting upon the document remaining with the 
petition so that it could be available whenever the auestion of the election peti- 
tion or its contents arose. It would be stretching the words of sub-section (..) 
of section 83 too far to think that every document produced as evidence in the 
election petition becomes a part of the election petition proper. In this particular 
case we do not think that the pamphlet could be so treated. We are, therefore 
of the opinion that whether or not section 86(1) is mandatory or directory there 
was no breach of the provisions of the Representation of the People Act in regard 
to the filing of the election petition or the service of the copies thereof and the 
order under appeal was therefore erroneous. 

We accordingly set aside the order and remand the case for trial from this 
stage. The costs of the appellant will be costs in the cause. The respondent will 
bear his own costs. 

(Sd.) M. Hidayatuixah, J. 

(Sd.) R. S. Bacuawat, J, 

New Delhi, < Sd -) K ’ S - HEGDE - J t 

February 2, 1968. 


IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 
Civil Appeal No- 1693 (NCE) of 1967 

Anneal under Section 116A of the People Representation Act 1951 from the Judg- 
ement and order dated the 21st September 1967 of the Madhya Pradesh High 
Court at Jabalpur in Election Petition No, 10 of 1967. 

Shrimati Sahodrabai Rai 
aged about 48 years, 

Widow of Shri M.urlidhar Rai, 

vlUageTar^apu^TehsR and District. Sagar, M. P. Appellant. 

Versus 

1 Shri Ram Singh Aharwar, aged about 27 years son of Shri J9?S pa J 0 ^ni 
Aharwar, resident of Purbiyau Tori, Sagar, Tehsil and Distt. Sagar 
(M. P.). 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE Ol- INDIA: MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3. 1890 


1585) 


2. Shri Churaman, aged about 50 years son of Shri Ramie, resident of Silar 

P. O. Decri, Tehsil Rehli, Distt. Sagar (M. P.). 

3. Shri Sunder Lai, aged about 30 years, son of Bakkal resident of Mohal 

No. 14, Sadar Bazar, Sagar Tehsil and District Sagar (M.P.). 

Respondents. 

CORAM 2nd February, 1908 

Hon’ble Mr. Justice M. Hidayatullar. 

Hon’ble Mr. Justice R. S. Bachawat. 

Hon’ble Mr. Justice K. S. Hecde. 

For the Appellant ■ — M/s G. N. Dikshit and R. N- Dikshit, Advocates. 

For the Respondent No, 1. —Mr C- B. Agarwala, Senior Advocate, 

(Miss Uma Mehta. Mr. S. K, Bagga, and 
Mrs. Surcshta Bagga, Advs. with him.) 

THE APPEAL above mentioned being called on for hearing before this Court 
on the 1st and 2nd days of February 1968 UPON hearing Mr. G, N. Dikshit Counsel 
for the Appellant and Mr. C, B. Agarwala Counsel for Respondent No. 1 THIS- 
COURT IN ALLOWING THE APPEAL DOTH ORDER' (1) THAT the judgment 
and order dated the 21st September 1967 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court at 
Jabalpur m Election Petition No. 10 of 1967 upholding the preliminary objection 
that the Election Petition is liable to be dismissed for contravention of Section 
81(3) of the Representation of People Act 1951 be and is hereby set aside and the 
case be and is hereby remanded to Madhya Pradesh High Court with the direc- 
tion that the said High Court Do restore to its file the Election Petition No, 10 of 
1967 and Do try the same on merits from this stage and dispose of the same in the 
light of the directions contained in the judgment herein (2) THAT the costs of the 
appellant Incurred in this Court shall he the costs in Election Petition No. 10 of 
1967 and the Respondent herein shall bear his own costs AND THIS COURT 
DOTH FURTHER ORDER THAT this ORDER be punctually observed and carried 
into execution by all concerned, 

WITNESS the Hon’ble Mr. Kallash Nath Wanchoo Chief Justice of India at 
the Supreme Court, New Delhi this the 2nd day of February, 1968. 

(Sd.) M. P. Saxena, 

Deputy Registrar, 

[No. 82/MP/10/67-J 
By Order, 

A. N. SEN, Secy. 


New Delhi, the 7th March 1968 

S.O. 1008. — In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order, pronounced on 
•the 9th November, 1967 and 13th November, 1967 by the High Court of Gujarat 
at Ahmedabad in Election Petition No- 23 of 1907. 

ELECTION PETITION NO. 23 OF 1967 


9th November, 1967 
The Hon’ble Mr Justice B. J- Divan 
No- 1: Yes- 
Nos. 2 to 5: No- 

Mr. K. G- Vakharia with Mr- H. M. Mehta for the petitioner- 
Mr, S. M. Shah for respondent No. 1. 

Respondent No. 2 served- 
CORAM: DIVAN J. 

(9-11-1967) 



I 59 O THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MARCH 28, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Part II— 


ORAL JUDGMENT — 

This Election Petition has been filed by the petitioner challenging the election 
of the first respondent to Lok Sabha from Parliamentary constituency No. 10, 
viz., Gandhinagar parliamentary constituency in Gujarat State. The petitioner 
was one of the candidates contesting the election and the two respondents and 
one Natvarlal Bhagwandas Parmar also stood as candidates but the said Natvarial 
withdrew from the contest and the petitioner and respondents Nos. 1 and 2 ultimately 
contested the election. The poll was taken in this constituency on February 21, 1967, 
and the result of the election was declared on February 24, 1967. After the’ votes 
were counted it was found that the petitioner had obtained 1,26,208 votes, res- 
pondent No. I had obtained 1,56,148 votes, respondent No. 2 had obtained 50,702 
votes; and 21,600 votes were rejected as invalid votes. The first respondent was 
declared elected as a Member of Parliament from Parliamentary constituency 
No- 10, he having secured the largest number of votes. The parliamentary consti- 
tuency No. 10, Gandhinagar Parliamentary constituency, is reserved for Scheduled 
Castes; and the petitioner and the two respondents are all members of the Sche- 
duled Castes- This petition has been filed by the petitioner for a declaration 
that the election of respondent No. 1 from this constituency Is void; and for a 
further declaration that the petitioner should be declared elected from this consti- 
tuency. The petitioner has also prayed for the costs of the petition and further 
other reliefs. 


The main grounds, apart from the contentions on technical points, that have 
been urged In support of this Election Petition are that there was improper recep- 
tion, refusal and rejection of votes and also reception of votes which were void. 
It Is also alleged in the petition that respondent No- 1, his agents and other 
porsons with the consent of the first respondent have committed the corrupt prac- 
tice of bribery Inasmuch as they had given a gift and a gratification to respondent 
No- 2 for standing at the election and to contest the election from this constituency. 
It is also alleged that respondent No. 1 had incurred and/or authorized expendi- 
ture in contravention of s. 77 read with rules 86 and 90 of the Conduct of 
Election Rules, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules), and thereby com- 
mitted a corrupt practice. The petitioner also contends in the petition that res- 
pondent No. 1, his agents and other persons with the consent of respondent No. 1 
committed the corrupt practice of obtaining or procuring or attempting to obtain 
or procure assistance of a Government servant mentioned in s, 123(7) of the 
representation of the People Act, 1951. (hereinafter referred to as the Act); and 
that such assistance was for the furtherance of the prospects of respondent No- l’a 
election. The next ground which Is relied upon In the petition is that respondent 
No. 1 or his agents or other persons with the consent of respondent No. 1 had 
published false statements, which they believed to be false and did not believe to 
be true, regarding the personal character and conduct and candidature of thd 
petitioner, which were reasonable calculated to prejudice the prospects of the 
petitioner’s election- It was also been contended that respondent No. 2 had made 
false statement regarding the candidature of the petitioner inasmuch as respondent 
No- 2 was propagating that he was the real candidate of the Republican Party of 
India and not the petitioner; and it is the contention of the petitioner that this 
propaganda was carried on at the Instance of respondent No, 1 and with the con- 
sent of respondent No. 1 . The petitioner further relies on the ground that res- 

pondent No, 1 and his agents with the consent of resDondent No. 1 committed the 
corrupt practice of appealing to the voters to vote for the first respondent and not to 
vote for the petitioner on the ground of caste and community of the petitioner and 
that such appeal was made for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of 
respondent No. 1 and for prejudicially affecting the petitioner’s election. These con- 
tentions as regards the dl decent corrupt practices and grounds for setting aside the 
election were challenged bv respondent No. 1 in his written statement and the facts 
averred In the petition are denied. It has been further contended by the first res- 
pondent in his written statement that the petition was barred by limitation; and 

secondly, that the petitioner was not entitled to scrutiny and recounting of the votes 
on the basis of the averments made in the petition. 


As regards the two technical pleas regarding the bar of limitation and regard- 
ing the scrutiny and recounting of votes on the basis of the averments made In 
the petition, two preliminary issues were raised by' my learned brother Shelat J. 
and by my judgment and order, dated August 29, 1967, I decided both the Issues 



Sec. B(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 


159 ' 


against respondent No. 1. Thereafter issues on the merits of the averment set 
out in the petition were settled and the trial has gone on now before me as regards 
these issues on the merits. At the time when the trial began before me on the 
merits of the case, Mr. Mehta for the petitioner, stated that the petitioner did not 
wish to press issues Nos- 1, 2, 4, and 8, Issue No. 1 is in connection with impro- 
per reception, refusal and rejection of votes and reception of votes which were 
void- Issue' No. 2 is a consequential issue as to whether the result of the election 
in so far as it concerned the first respondent has been materially affected by 
such improper reception, refusal and rejection of votes and reception of votes 
which were void- Issue No. 4 is regarding incurring of expenditure and that 
Issue has not been pressed, as stated by Mr. Mehta. Issue No- 8 is regarding 
the appeal by respondent No. 1 and his agents with the consent of respondent 
No. 1, to voters for votes on the ground of cast and community. Since Issues 
Nos. 1 and 2 regarding improper reception, refusal or rejection of the votes and 
reception of votes which were void, have not been pressed, Issue No. 10, as to 
whether the petitioner is entitled to a declaration that he is a duly elected member 
of Parliament from Gandhinagar parliamentary constituency at the last general 
elections, would not survive. Mr, Mehta at the commencement of the trial also 
stated that he did not wish to press the issue as to the corrupt practice regarding 
the bribery of respondent No- 2 to induce him to withdraw from the election- 
Therefore, the real contest before me is as regards Issues Nos 3, 5, 6, 7 and 9. 

As regards Issue No. 5, which relates to the assistance of any gazetted officers, 
members of the Armed Forces etc., Mr, Mehta stated at the commencement of 
the hearing before me that the petitioner would rely only on the Instance of 
Jethal al B- Jadav, alleged to be an employee of the Income-tax Department and 
not on any other Instance of assistance said to have been received by the first 
respondent from other Government servants, though several such instances are 
alleged in the petition. 

The evidence which has been led before me at the hearing of this petition 
has been led in connection with mainly there issues. Firstly, whether the first 
respondent and his agents with his consent published false statements regarding 
the personal character conduct and candidature of the petitioner, and In that 
connection s. 123(4) of the Act is relied upon. So far as Issue No. 5 is concerned 
evidence has been led in order to establish that Jethalal B. Jadav, an employee 
of the Income Tax Department, had worked for the first respondent and that the 
first respondent had procured or obtained the assistance of Jethalal B. Jadav 
for the furtherance of the prospects of election respondent No, 1 at that election. 
As regards Issue No. 7, the petitioner did try to lead evidence about respondent 
No. 2, holding himself out as the real candidate of the Republican Party of India- 
and representing that the petitioner was not the real candidate of that party 
but at the time of arguments before me, that issue was not seriously pressed 
before me, though that issue has not in terms been given up. 

I will first deal with Issue No. 7 as that issue can be very easily disposed of- 
Issue No- 7 is in these terms: — 

“Whether the petitioner proves that at the Instance or with the consent of 
respondent No. 1, respondent No. 2 held himself out as the real 
candidate of the Republican Party of the India and that the petitioner 
was not the real candidate of that Party,” 

Now, it appears that late Dr. Ambedkar has started this party known as the 
Republican Party of India and later on one section of that party seceded from 
the main body and what is known as the Republican Party of India (Nagpur), 
came to be formed by that section. The original body and the new seceding 
section both claimed to be the genuine or the real Republican Party of India. 
The petitioner was a candidate put up by the Republican Party of India, the 
parent body; whereas the second respondent was the candidate put up by the 
Republican Party of India (Nagpur)- The evidence of Yashwantrao Tukaram 
Indulkar, witness No- 7 for the petitioner, establishes these facts and it Is clear 
that each of the two sections was seriously contending that it was the real Re- 
publican Party of India. Under these circumstances, it cannot be said that there 
was any false representation by respondent No- 2 or his supporters when they 
contended that respondent No 2 was the real candidate of the Republican Party 
of India and carried on propaganda to the effect that the petitioner was not 
the real candidate of the Republican Party of India- Under these circumstances, 



^592 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1%8/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Part II- 


though the Republican Party of India was formed for the political uplift of back 
ward classes and scheduled castes and though this particular Parliamentary consti- 
tuency of Gandhinagar has a reserved seat for scheduled castes candidate, it 
cannot be said that there was any corrupt practice when respondent No. 2 put 
forward the plea that he himself was the real candidate of the Republican Party 
of India. Under these circumstances even though respondent No. 2 might have 
contended to that effect, it cannot be said that he did so with the consent of res- 
pondent No. 1 or at the Instance of respondent No- 1, and in any event, that 
type of propaganda carried on by respondent No- 2 cannot be said to amount to 
any corrupt practice. It is quite possible that respondent No. 2 genuinely believed 
that the section of which he was the representative 'viz., the Republican Party 
of India (Nagpur), was the genuine Republican Party of India and under that 
bona fide belief he might have carried on that propaganda and under these circum- 
stances that particular ground cannot help the petitioner at all 

Turning now to Issue No 6, this issue deals with the question of publication 
of false statements regarding the personal character, conduct and candidature of 
the petitioner. Such publication is alleged to have been done by respondent No. 

1 or the agents of respondent No- 1 with the consent of respondent No. 1 It is 
contended by the petitioner that the false statements were thus published not be- 
lieving them to be true and beUvlng them to be false: and this was done with 
reasonable calculation to prejudice the election of the petitioner. 

One Jayantibhai Ambaram Subodb, petitioner's witness No- 12, is the editor, 
printer and publisher of a fortnightly journal called: "Tamanna”. This journal 
is published from Ahmedabad and it mostly deals with the problems of scheduled 
caste and backward classes. Jayantibhai Subodh is also a political and social 
worker and is connected with several bodies working for the uplift of backward 
classes and scheduled castes The main grievance which has been made is regard- 
ing the publication of same items In the issue of “Tamanna”, dated February 10, 
1967, and it is urged that what was set out in that issue of "Tamanna” was false 
and false to the knowledge of the publisher and further that the first respondent 
himself had distributed copies of this issue of “Tamanna” amongst the electors 
in this constituency with a view to turn the voters against the petitioner. Ex- 
hibit “E’ contains marked portions from this issue of February 10, 1907 At 
page 2 in a passage in an appeal to the electors to vote for the Congress it has been 
stated:— 

“There are only a few persons in the party of Shri Karsandas (the peti- 
tioner). 'These few persons are at present engaged in picking up 
the pieces of silver discarded or thrown by Bhalkaka and Vadibhal 
Seth of the Swatantra party and they are engrossed In making these 
collections oi dirty pieces of silver. Does not this look tike a scene 
where used pieces of leaf-plates are snatched away after a big cast 
dinner?” 

The next portion which has been objected to is also on page 2 of this Issue and 
is in these terms: — 

"It is learnt that Shri Karsandas Parmar (the petitioner) has also tried 
to arrive at a bargain with Shri Indulal and as a part of that bargain 
Shri Ramosh Parmar was offered a few pieces of silver to induce 
Ramesh Parmar to withdraw his candidature- Still Ramesh Parmar 
found that amount inadequate and at present Ramesh Parmar has 
persisted In his attitude and has stood as a candidate against Karsan- 
das Parmar and js growling at him.”. 

It may be mentioned here that Gandhinagar Parliamentary constituency included 
the area of Kankaria Legislative Assembly seat and Rameshrhandra Parmar 
was the candidate for Kankaria Legislative Assembly seat- The said article 
further sets out as follows:— 

"Shri Karsandas Parmar for the sake of security of his seat has mortgaged 
his Republican party with said Shri Vadibhal Mehta of Swatantra 
Party and secret agreements have already been arrived at to mort- 
gage his party with Shri Indulal.” 

At page 6 of this issue of "Tamanna", it has been stated: — 

"It is learnt that Shri Karsandas Parmar, the Republican Party candidate, 
who is contesting the Hartjan Seat Party candidate, who is contesting 
the Hariian Seat from Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency, 
with the help of the Swatantra Party, is going round the villages and 



SBC. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 


I 5»3T 


Is making vain attempts to secure votes by offering packets of sweet- 
meats to Harljan voters. Harijans, who know the art of converting 
the elephant of the emperor into a mouse, accept these packets of 
sweet-meat offered by Shrl Karsandas Parmar and at the same time 
they tell hint: "Sir, Please do not worry’, and such cryptic answers 
arc given to Karsandas Parmar. Will the uplift of the Harijan 
Society be brought about by the sweet-meats prepared from the 
vegetable ghee of the swatantra party or by the dry but substantial 
bread of the Congress Party? Harijans understand the real matter 
Involved in this controversy and just as in the past they had con- 
sumed the elephant of the emperor but returned, a mouse, in the 
same manner the elephant of Karsandas will be converted skillfully 
into a mouse; and from his ballot boxes instead of votes only mice 
will come out and that seems to be the opinion all around. 

Experienced llarljan leaders are uttering • warning that Harijans should 
beware of these pieces of Sweet-meats. Hence Harijans ol Viram- 
gan, Sanand and Dehgam Talukas have publicly announced their 
decision to cast their votes for the Congress candidate Somchanchbhai 
Manubhal Solanki and Congress candidates for the State Legislative 
Assembly. 

A question is being asked whether sweet-meat packets will be given at the 
time of the voting?” 

It Is contended on behalf of the petitioner that these different passages, two 
occurring at page 2 and the third occurring at page 6, all contain false statements of 
facts against the petitioner and these statements were deliberately made with a 
veiw to further the election prospects of the first respondent. In this connection, 
it is further alleged on behalf of the petitioner that the first respondent himself 
published these false statements by distributing the copies of this particular issue 
of ‘‘Tamanna” to various voters in the constituency. 

Petitioner’s witness No. 12, Jayantibhai Subodh has proved the contents of Ex. 
“E”, since he is the editor, printer and publisher of this Journal and he has slated 
that the issue in which Ex. “E” appears was a copy of his newspaper and the issue 
was duly published by his newspaper. In his cross-examination with the leave of 
the Court by the learned counsel for the petitioner, Jayantibhai Subodh stated that 
the views which were generally expressed in "Tamanna” were in favour of the 
Congress and for the last about 25 years, except for the duration of the Mahagujarat 
movement, Jayantibhai had been a supporter of the Congress Party. He admitted 
in his cross-examination by the learned counsel for the petitioner that he had 
worked for the first respondent in the course of his election campaign but he also 
stated that he had done so far several other candidates of the Congress Party. 
He stated that the contents for Ex. "E” from which I have set out the passages 
above, were printed at the time when the election campaign was going on and 
Jayantibhai desired that the first respondent should succeed against the petitioner 
and hence he had written those portions. The materials which Jayantibhai has get 
out as facts in Ex- “E”, were gathered partly from other newspapers, partyly from 
what Jayantibhai came to know through correspondence and partly through other 
sources. By other sources Jayantibhai meant what he sometimes over-heard, from 
conversations and sometimes information and facts which were passed On to him 
by social workers. The following passages occur in the cross-examination of 
Jayantibhai: — 

“Because of the short time left before going to the press, very often we print 
facts in our articles without any verification from other sources hut we 
rely on our own judgement to ascertain whether the facts are true or 
not. I do not ag.ee that what has been included in Ex. "E” is all false. 
I have not yet tried to find out whether what has been stated as a 
fact in Ex. “E” is true or not because there was no need for me to 
do so so far ” 

Jayantibhai admits having accompanied the first respondent in his election cam- 
paign and the first respondent, who has also stopped into the witness box, has con- 
firmed this aspect of the assistance which Jayantibhai Subodh was giving to him 
In his election campaign. Apart from being the editor, printer and publisher of 
"Tamanna”, Javantibhai was connected with a body called. “Ahmedabad City 
Backward Classes Voters’s Council”, and was the Chief Convenor of that Council. 
The said Council was convassing for the Congress candidates and had published 
a booklet. Ex. “G” for the purpose of carrying on propaganda on behalf of several 
Congress candidates- and the first respondent was the candidate backed by the 
Congress Party in this constituency. 



*594 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1969/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [pARr II~ 


The tests which had been laid down by the Supreme Court regarding S, 123(4) 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 are to be Hound in several decisions 
of the Supreme Court. In Inder Lai v. Lai Singh , A.I.R. 1962 S. C.115&, the Supreme 
Court has laid down as follows: — 

"In prescribing the requirement that the false statement should have rela- 
tion to the personal character of the candidate under S. 123(4), a 
distinction Is intended to be drawn between the personal character of 
the candidate and his public or political character. The provisions 
postulates that if a false statement is made in regard to the public 
or political character of the candidate, it would not constitute a 
corrupt practice even if it is likely to prejudice the prospects of that 
candidate’s election. 


But circulation of false statements about the private or personal character of the 
candidate during the period preceding elections is likely to work against the freedom 
of election Itself Inasmuch as the effect created by false statements cannot be met 
by denials In proper time and so the constituency has to be protected against the 
circulation of such false statements which are likely to affect the voting of the 
electors. Dissemination of false statements about the personal character of a 
candidate thus constitutes a corrupt practice. 


The allegations made in a pamphlet issued by the successful candidate that the 
other candidate was a purchaser of the opponents of the Congress by means of 
money clearly attracted the provisions of S. 123(4). In plain terms, the statement 
amounted to an allegation that the other candidate bought by offering bribes the 
votes of the opponents of the Congress. Bribery is itself a corrupt practice and 
if it is said against a candidate that he practises the corrupt practice of buying the 
votes of the opponent of the Congress by means of Bribery that clearly -and un- 
equivocally affects his private character. As the statement alleged that the bribes 
were offered by the other candidate for the purpose of election, in that sense it 
might be that it was his public character which was falsely criticised. But, it would 
be Idle to contend that it was a false statement only against the public character 
of the other candidate. Publication of the Impugned pamphlet constituted a corrupt 
practice under S 123(4). The result of this conclusion Inevitably was that the 
election of the successful candidate must be declared to be invalid because the 
corrupt practice fell under S- 101(b) and was outside the purview of S. 100(2). 


In Sheopal Singh v- Ram Pratap , A.I.R., 1965 S.C. 677, the Supreme Court again 
examined the provisions of S. 123(4) and observed: 

“Section 123(4) prohibits any statement of fact in relation to personal 
character of conduct of any candidate, which is not only false but also 
the candidate making it either believes it to be false or does not believe 
It to be true. It implies that a statement of fact relating to the per- 
sonal character or conduct etc, of a candidate can be made, if It is 
true Even if it is false, the candidate making it is protected, unless 
he makes it believing it to be false or not believing it to be true, that 
Is to say statements which are not true made bona fide are also outside 
the ambit of the provision. To be within the mischief of sub-s- (4) 
of S. 123 of the Act such a statement shall satisfy another test, namely, 
it shall be a statement reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects 
of the election of the candidate against whom it is made. The burden 
of proof as a matter of law and as a matter of adducing evidence i- 
on the party who seeks to get the election set aside to establish corrupt 
practfce; but, if he adduces sufficient evidence, the burden of adducing 
evidence shifts on to the other party. 

The Supreme Court has further observed : 1 

"Anv statement made, which reflects on the mental or moral character of a 
y persoTls a reflection on his personal character, whereas any criticism 
of n person's political or public activities and policies is outride • 

his persona) character and conduct. 


-tt ha. also bean ob.erv.d by the . Supreme Court ■ in8rri , ent „f the eom.pt 

" Un % S ,etj 2 c r. ) n2 , .£p.io“”bo'pp 1 b.iV, a statement whether he 1. the 



Sec, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 


1595 


another of It or not, does not commit a corrupt practice, unless he has 
the requisite knowledge- The sub-section does not accept the doctrine 
cf constructive knowledge-” 

It should be borne in mind that the observation regarding mens rea being a part 
of S. 123(4) of the Act was made by the Supreme Court while dealing with the 
argument before it that a particular person who was not joined as a party had 
committed this corrupt practice under S- 123(4); and the Supreme Court pointed 
out that there was no allegation of a corrupt practice against, that particular 
individual- 


In Dr. Jagjit Singh v- Kartar Singh, A-I.R- 1906 S-C- 773, the Supreme Court has 
pointed out that the onus to prove the essential ingredients prescribed by Sub-s. (4) 
of S- 123 is on him who alleges publication of false statements made by the candi- 
date. He has to show that the impugned statement has been published by the 
candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of the candidate or 
his election agent, He has further to show that the impugned statement is a state- 
ment of fact which is false; that the candidate either believed that the paid state- 
ment was false, or did not believe it to be true; and that the statement is the rela- 
tion to the personal character or conduct of the complainant candidae or his 
candidature. 


The last judgement of the Supreme Court which requires to be mentioned in 
this connection is in Kumara Nand v. BHjmohan Lai Sharma, A.I.R. 1967 S.C. 808; 
In this judgement the Supreme Court has pointed out that the main onus on an 
election petitioner under S. 123(4) is to show that a statement of fact was published 
by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of the candi- 
date or his election agent and also to show that that statement was false and relat- 
ed to his personal character or conduct- Once that is proved and the complaining 
candidate has sworn as above indicated, the burden shifts to the candidate making 
the false statement of fact to show what his belief was. The further question as 
to prejudice to the prospects of election is generally a matter of inference to be 
arrived at by the tribunal on the facts and circumstances of each case. At page 
812 of the report, Wancho J. (as he then was) delivering the judgement of the 
Supreme Cpurt has observed as follows: — 

“The sub-section requires : (i) publication of any statement of fact by a 
candidate (ii) that fact is false (lil) the candidate bellves It to be false 
or does not believe it to be true, (Iv) the statement is in relation to the 
personal character or conduct of another candidate; and (v) the sain 
statement Is one being reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects 

of the other candidate’s election If the candidate either believes 

the statement to be false or does not believe it to be true he would be 
responsible under S- 123(4).” 

It is in the light of these four decisions of the Supreme Court that I have to 
consider whether the petitioner has succeeded in establishing the Plication of 
false statements directed against the petitioner. The petitioner has stepped into 
the witness-box and hss stated that the statements and allegations concerning him 
and appearing in the issue of “Tamanna" , dated February 10, 1967, are all false 
and gotup. He has further stated that "Tamanna” is the only journal of the back- 
ward' and scheduled castes in Gujarat which is published regularly and it has a 
wide circulation amongst the scheduled castes in Gujarat and it also publishes 
Government advertisements- In the portion which has been set out at page 2, It 
has been alleged against the petitioner that he had committed a corrupt practice or 
t^ing to induce Ramesh Parmar to withdraw his candidature by offering a few 
pieces of silver to Ramesh Parmar but Ramesh Parmar found that amount made 
quato and persisted In standing as a candidate. Under S. 123(1) ^n^LTo^nnv 
to the corrupt practice of brihery to give any gift or offer any promise to a y 
person to withdraw his candidature; and It is dear that in this passage rega S 
Ramesh Parmar the corrunt practice of bribery as defined in S- 1 2 ”GH A ) has 
been attributed to the petitioner. In the other passage at page 2, it has been 
alleged that the few persona who are in the party of the petitioner are picking 
up the discarded pieces of silver thrown by Bhaikaka and Vedibhai Sheth of the 
Swatantra' Party. It has also been alleged at page 2 that in order to secure his 
own seat, the so called Republican Party of the petitioner has mortgaged with said 
Shrl Vadibhai Mehta of Swatantra Party and also with Indulal (of Janta Pari- 
shad). It is possible to argue that so far as these political alliances ar ® c0 "5 ,e r n ®r> 
they have been described in a very crude and exaggerated language. To that ex- 
tent the allegations against the petitioner cannot be said to be against his personal 
character as distinguished from his political or public character. But to attribute 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MARCH 29, 1908/CHAITRA 5, 1890 [Part li- 


the corrupt practice of offering money to a candidate to withdraw canditure would 
certainly be an attack against the personal character of an individual as pointed 
by the Supreme Court in Inder Cal’s case (supra). 

At page 8 of the issue of “Tamanna”, dated February 10, 1967 it has also been 
alleged that the petitioner was making vain efforts for securing votes by offering 
packets of sweet-meats to voters while visiting different villages; and the warning 
allegedly uttered by experienced Harijan leaders against these sweet-meats has 
also been set out at page 6. Under S, 123(1) (A) a corrupt practice of bribery 
can be said to have been committed by a person who offers or promises any 
person with the object directly or indirectly of inducing to vote at the election 
for that person; and the passage at page 6 of the issue of “Tamanna” dated Feb- 
ruary 10, 1967, attributes this corrupt practice to the petitioner, It is, therefore, 
clear that out of the three impugned passages in this issue of “Tamanna”, two are 
certainly objectionable in the sense that they attribute commission of corrupt 
practices to the petitioner and are attacks against, the personal character of the 
petitioner. The petitioner himself has stated in the witness box that these state- 
ments are false and no attempt has been made on behalf of the - first 
respondent to show that there is any truth in the allegations set out at page 2 
that the petitioner had offered any consideration to Raniesh Farmer to withdraw 
his candidature or that the petitioner had distributed packets of sweet-meats 
amongst the voters in his constituency with the object of obtaining votes. Tt 
may be pointed out that in his evidence the first respondent has stated; — 

“There is in one of the extracts in Ex. “E” satirical references to the peti- 
tioner. According to mo what is written in this extract against the 
petitioner is not in good taste. This particular portion written against 
the petitioner sets out the views of t.he editor regarding the alliance 
between the petitioner and the Swatanlra Party. T am not connected 
in any manner with the editorial policy or writing so far as 
"Tamanna” is concerned. It is not true that this passage in “Taman- 
na” has been written at my instance or at my suggestion.” 


In the light of the authorities of the Supreme Court, it is clear that at least two 
out of the impugned passages amounts to false statements against the personal 
character of the respondent and looking to the fact that these statements were 
made at the time when the election campaign of the rival candidates was going 
on, it is not unreasonable to infer that these statements were reasonably calcu- 
lated to prejudice the prospects of the petitioner’s election. 


The question now arises whether this publication of the false statements ivas 
by the first respondent, or his agent or by any person with the consent of the 
first respondent or his Election Agent. It is the petitioner’s case that the first 
respondent distributed copies of this issue of “Tamanna” to vaiious persons at 
different places in his constituency. In this connection, the petitioner has led the 
evidence of four witnesses, viz., Chhanabhai Virabhai Rathod petitioner's witness 
No. 4, Jivanlal Somsbhai Vaghela, petitioner’s witness No. 8, Nanjibhiu Kahdas 
Rathod, petitioner's witness No. 9 and Mithabhai Ambaram Parmar, Petitionci s 
witness No. 13; and each of these witnesses has stated m his deposition that the 
first respondent had distributed copies of “Tamanna” of 10th February 1967 in 
the respective areas. Regarding these witnesses, an objection was urged before 
me on behalf of the first respondent regarding the want of particulars in the 

r tition so far as this particular corrupt practice is concerned. In the petition 
has been alleged that this issue of “Tamanna” was distributed throughout the 
constituency by respondent No. 1 himself and by his workers with the consent of 
respondent No. 1. It is true that in the petition different places at which these copies 
were distributed by the first respondent and the dates on which the copies were dis- 
tributed by the first respondent have not been mentioned. Under S-R.'Hb) of the Act, 
it has been laid down that an election petition shall set fdrth full particulars of any 
corrupt practice that the petitioner alleges, including as full a statement as possi- 
ble of the names of the parties alleged to have committed such corrupt practice 
and the date and place of the commission of each such practice. Mr, Shah, on 
behalf of the first respondent, relied in this connection on the decision of the 
Supreme Court in Bhikhaji Keshao Joshi v P. N. Niyani 10 Election Law Reports 
357 where the Supreme Court has laid down that the requirement of full Parti- 
culars of all corrupt practices alleged in the petition including the names o the 
parties and the date and place of commission, enjoined by S, 83(2) must De 
complied with, with sufficient fullness and clarification, so as to enable the oppo- 
site party fairly to meet them; and they must be such as not to turn the enquiry 
into a rambling and roving inquisition. It is a fact that nowhere in the petiti 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 28, 1968/CHAITRA 5, 1890 


1597 


is there any mention of the date of place regarding the distribution of copies of 
“Tamanna” of 10th February, 1967 by the first respondent; but no plea was taken 
in the written statement that the particulars regarding this particular corrupt 
practice by the first respondent were inadequate. In para 14 of the written state- 
ment the first respondent has stated that it is not true that the first respondent 
or his agent with the consent of the first respondent have published false state- 
ments, knowing them to be false and not believing them to be true, in relation 
to the personal character, conduct and candidature of the petitioner and with a 
view to prejudice the election prosper Is of the petitioner, It is also stated in 
the same para: 

It is not true that during the, election days, fortnightly ‘Tamanna’ was 
freely cnculated or diistiibuted throughout the constituency by the 
respondent or by his agents and workers with the consent of the 
respondent." 

Though a grievance of want of particulars regarding the reception of votes etc. 
has been made, there is no grievance made m the written statement regarding 
*“ e °r particulars in regard to the corrupt practice of distributing this issue 

of Tamanna”. Moreover, at the time when the evidence was being led, no 
objection wag raised on the ground that these particulars were not furnished in 
the petition or by any subsequent amendment to the petition, 

In Balwant Singh v. Lakshmi N drain, A.I.R. 19C0 S.C. 770 the question of par- 
ticulars was gone into by the Supreme Court and Shah J, delivering the judg- 
ment of the Supreme Court has stated in para (8), at page 774 of the report as 
follows; — 

“The practice to be followed in cases where insufficient particulars of a 
corrupt practice are set forth in an election petition is this. An elec- 
tion petition is liable to be disrpissed in limine merely because full 
particulars of a corrupt practice alleged in the petition are not set 
out. Where an objection is raised by the respondent that a petition 
is deled ivc because full particulars of an alleged corrupt practice 
are not set out, the Tribunal is bound to decide whether the objec- 
tion, is well-founded. If the Tribunal upholds the objection, 
it should give an opportunity to the petitioner to apply for 
leave to amend or amplify the particulars of the corrupt practice 
alleged, and m the event of non-compliance with that order the 
Tribunal may strike oui the charges which remain vague,, Insist- 
ence upon full particulars of corrupt practices is undoubtedly of 
paramount importance in the trial of an election petition, but if 
the parties go to trial despite the absence of full particulars of tho 
corrupt practice alleged, and evidence of the contesting parties is led 
on the plea raised by the petition, the petition cannot thereafter be 
dismissed for want of particulars, because the defect Is one of 
procedure and not one of jurisdiction of the Tribunal to adjudicate 
upon the plea in the absence of particulars. The Appellate Court 
may be justified in setting aside the judgment of the Tribunal if it 
is satisfied that by reason of the absence of full particulars, mate- 
rial prejudice has resulted; and in considering whether material 
prejudice has resulted failure to raise and press the objection about 
the absence of particulars before going to trial must be given due 
weight.” 

In the instant case, it is obvious that the allegation being regarding what was 
published m the issue of “Tamanna” dated February 10 , 1967, and the date of 
the poll being February 21 , 1967 , by necessary implication it follows that the 
distribution by the first respondent could only have been between February 10, 
1967 and Februar.v 21, 1967. Therefore the time at which or the interval of time 
during which this distribution is attributed to the firsl respondent can be fixed 
with reasonable, certainty viz , between Febiuary 10 , 1967 and February 21, 
1967 . Tt is further alleged in the petition that this distribution took place in 
the constituency. Since this is u parliamentary constituency, thereby covering 
a large area, it is obvious that particulars of places should have been given and 
the petitioner could have been compelled to give these particulars regarding 
the places at which the distribution by the first respondent took place if the 
first respondent had insisted on such particulars at the appropriate time A a 
the evidence on the record shows, Naranbhai Nathebhai Vora, an agent of the 
petitioner had collected all the details regarding the different instances, , wheio 
the first respondent had distiibuted copies of this issue of 'Tamanna ana 
according to Naranbhai Nathabhai Vova, petitioner’s witness No. 19, ne had 
informed the petitioner about these instances before the petition was filed. 



J5S>8 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 28, 1968/CHAITRA 8, 1890 [Part II- 


Therefore, at the time when the petition was filed, the petitioner was in full 
possession of the different particulars regarding places at which the first res- 
pondent distributed copies of “Tamanna"; and the question that I have now to 
consider is whether because of want of full particulars regarding the places at 
which copies of “Tamanna’’ are said to have been distributed by the, first res- 
pondent, any material prejudice has been caused to the first respondent. No 
attempt has been made on behalf of the first respondent to lead any rebutting 
evidence against the witnesses who have deposed regarding the distribution of 
the said copies at the hands of the first respondent and further no application 
for time to enable the first respondent to lead any such evidence was at all 
made before me, Under these circumstances, I fail to see what prejudice can 
he said to have been caused to the first respondent because full particulars con- 
templated by S 83(20) regarding the places at which the copies of “Tamanna” 
were distributed by the first respondent were not set out in the petition, In 
view of the decision of the Supreme Court in Balwan Singh’s case (Supra), It 
cannot be said that the evidence led by the petitioner regarding the distribu- 
tion of the copies of “Tamanna” must be discarded because, particulars in that 
behalf have not been set out in the petition. 


Coming now to the evidence of the Witnesses, who speak about the distri- 
bution of the copies of “Tamanna” Chhanabhai Virabhai Rathod, petitioner’s 
Witness No, 4, is a resident of Dehgam village and according to this witness 
about 6 or 7 days prior to the date of the poll, he had gone to village Nadol 
from Dehgam m order to attend a meeting of the Caste Fanch. Chhanabhai 
is one of the members of the Caste Panch. The first respondent and his work- 
ers had come to Nadol on that day. Chhanabhai saw one Jayantibhai and one 
Vithalbhai amongst the workers of the first respondent. He said that the issue 
of “Tamanna” in which Ex. “E” appears was distributed at Nadol. In bis exa- 
mination-in-ebief, this witness identified the issue of ‘Tamanna , dated Feb- 
ruary 10 1987 without the use of spectacles but in his cross-examination he 

stated that he could not read without the assistance of spectacles In view of 
this particular aspect, it is difficult for me to rely on the word of Oils witnes, 
that the first respondent had distributed copies of the issue of Tamanna .dated 
February 10, 1967, at Nadol; and on the evidence of Chhanabhai it is difficult 
to hold that this aspect of the case has been established by the petitioner. 


Nanjibhal Kalidas Rathod, Petitioner’s Witness No. 9 is also a resident of 
Dehgam. Dehgam is included in Gandhinagar Lok-Sabha Constituency Nanglbhai 
has stated in his deposition that on one occasion he passing by the Lib i ary 

at Dehgam, At that time the first respondent, Jayantibhai Subodh and 1 others 
were sitting in that library. Jayantibhai called Nanjibhal inside the library and 
£» »d where he workl„ E . 

and told Jayantibhai that he was working in a textile mill. Jayantibhai then 
told Nanjibhal that he should vote for the Congress Party candidates and that 

he should vote for the Congress symbol of a pair of bullocks with a yoke on- 

Jayantibhai also gave to this witness a copy of one of the issues of Tamanna , 
dated February 10, 1967. Now, this distribution is by Jayantibhai and not by 
the first respondent. The first respondent is alleged to have ^en present at that 
time but the evidence of this witness it cannot be said that it was the first 
pondent who distributed a copy of this issue of '‘Tamanna”, dated Febri aiy 10, 
1967 The evidence of Nanjibhal, therefore, cannot hep the dated 

blishing that the first respondent had distributed copies of Tamanna , d 

February 10, 1967. 


Jivanlal Somabhat Vaghela, Petitioner’s Witness No. 8, has slated in his depo- 
sition that he resides in Vijaynagar Housing Society, Kankaria, Ahmedabad which 
area is included in Gandhinagar Lok-Sabha Constituency. According to Jivanlal, 
about six or seven days before the polling day, the first respondent one Jethalal 
Jadav and Jayantilal Subodh bad come to his Housing Society and they were 
accompanied by 40 other persons. The witness then corrected himself and said 
that only the first respondent, Jayantilal Subodh and Jethalal Jadav had come to 
their Housing Society and the residents of the society were called to the meeting 
and in all about 40 persons had attended that meeting. Jayantilal had come to 
the House of Jivanlal to call him to attend the meeting. According to Jivanlal. at 
the meeting first Jayantilal then Jethalal Jadav and lastly the first respondent 
spoke. After the speeches were over, a booklet published by the Backward 
Classes Voters’ Council and some issues of journal "Tamanna” were distributed 
amongst those who had attended the meeting. This witness knew how to read 
and write as he had studied upto 6th std. Gujarati. The witness also stated that 




Sec. 3(ti)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1988/CHAITRA 3, 1890 1599 


if the copy of the particular issue of "Tamanna” were shown to him, he would be 
able to identify the same and he picked up the Issue of “Tamanna” which was 
distributed at the meeting. According to this witness, a copy of the issue of 

“Tamanna” of 10th February, 1907, was given to him by the first respondent. In 

his cross-examination this witness stated that on the date on which the meeting 
was held, he was working In the day-shift of Rohit Mills and he was working from 
7 A.M. to 8-30 P.M. and the meeting was held in the evening. This witness has 
stated that he had talked to Naranbhal VorR about that meeting two days prior 

to the date of the poll and at that time he had told Naranbhai that copies of the 

particular issue of "Tamanna’ had been distributed after the speeches were over 
at that meeting- He had not shown to Naranbhai any copy of the issue of 
“Tamanna” that had been so distributed but he had told Naranbhai orally about 
it. In this cross-examination Jivanlal has stated that he belonged to the Chamar 
Sub-caste of Harijans and he did not know to which particular sub-caste the peti- 
tioner belonged. The petitioner himself has stated that he also belongs to Chamar 
sub-caste of Harijans. It was urged before me on behalf of the first respondent that 
I should not accept the evidence of Jivanlal because he belonged to the same sub- 
caste of Harijans i.e. Chamar, as the petitioner, and that he had come to give 
false evidence in this case- Now, I have watched the demeanour on this witness 
when he was in the witness-box and I have found that he was giving his evidence 
in a straight forward manner. His demeanour has struck me as that of a truthful 
witness. Moreover, nothing has been brought out in his cross-examination, which 
would induce me to hold that Jivanlal was not a witness of truth- On Jivanlal’s 
evidence I am prepared to hold that the first respondent had distributed the issue 
of “Tamanna" of February 10. 1987 at Viiyanagar Housing Society, Kankaria, and 
that this distribution took place about 6 or 7 days prior to the date of the poll. 

Regarding witness Nithabhai Ambaram Parmar. petitioner’s witness No. 13, an 
attempt was made to elicit in his cross-examination that he was a partisan of the 
petitioner Inasmuch as he had joined the petitioner in his "Satyagraha” for break- 
ing open the locks at the Sacblvalaya at Hyderabad but he has denied that sugges- 
tion- In fairness it was pointed out by the learned counsel for the petitioner, 
so as not to cause nnv prejudice to the witness, that the “Satyagraha” was not for 
breaking open the locks but for putting the locks on the Sachivalaya at Ahmeda- 
bad Though the answer Is technically correct, the witness was a person who was 
taking part in this activity carried on by the petitioner. Mlthabhai has deposed 
about the fiist respondent distributing copies of “Tamanna” dated February 10 , 
1967 to the residents of the chawl where Mithabhai was residing- If Mithabhai 
had not been a partisan witness, I would have relied upon his testimony but in 
view of the fact that he is a partisan witness and hence likely to favour the 
petitioner, I am unable to rely upon the testimony of Mithabhai for the purpose of 
holding that the first respondent had distributed copies of “Tamanna” dated Feb- 
ruary 10, 1967- 

Under these circumstances on the evidence of Jivanlal Somabhai Vaghela, I hold 
that at least on one occasion at the time of the meeting at Vijyanagar Housing 
Society, the first respondent had distributed copies of th" issue o£ “Tamanna” dated 
10th February 1967, which contained the Impugned material which I have already 
set out. The first respondent was at that time carrying on election propaganda 
on his own behalf and the petitioner was a rival candidate- The only object, there- 
fore, In distributing the copi>s of the issue of "Tamanna” could have been to fur- 
ther his own election prospects and to mar the election prospects of the petitioner- 

Mr. Shah, on behalf of the first respondent, in this connection relied upon the 
observations of the Supreme Court in Sheopnl Singh v. Ram Pratap, A I.R. 196.1 S.C- 
677 to the effect that S 123(4) of the Act does not accept the doctrine of construc- 
tive knowledge. Mr- Shah urged before me that, there is nothing to show on the 
record of this case that the first respondent knew about the contents of the issue 
of “Tamanna”, dated February, 10, 1967, or that with that knowledge he distribut- 
ed those copies. This contention of Mr. Shah cannot be accepted because it is not 
unreasonable to infer that the petitioner himself distributed the said copies look- 
ing to the fact that it was In the course of the plectlon campaign and particularly 
when such distribution was going to further his own election campaign No other 
object can be attributed to the first respondent for distributing the copies of this 
issue of 10th February 1967 at the meeting at Viiyanagar Society, I, therefore, 
hold that the respondent himself distributed copies of “Tamanna” of 10th February- 
1967 and thereby published false statements regarding the petitioner, at ieast so 
far as two of those statements are concerned. These statements were regarding 
the personal character of the petitioner and are statements which can reasonably 



i6oo 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Part II- 


tae said to be calculated to prejudice the petitioner’s election. Under these circum- 
stances, the first respondent committed this corrupt practice set out in S, 123(4) of 


It was urged on behalf of the petitioner before me that even apart from the 
first respondent himself, Jayantibhai Subodh, who was the Counting Agent of 
the first respondent, being the editor, printer and publisher of “Tamanna”, had 
published false statements regarding the personal character of the petitioner and 
therefore, the first respondent js responsible for the same. In this connection it 
was urged that respondent No. 1 was at one time a member of the Advisory Board 
of ' Tamanna" in 1963- Further, it was urged that Subodh was working for res- 
pondent No. l’s election and a lifesketch of the father of respondent No. L and the 
news about the death of his father were published in the issue of “Tamanna’’ jour- 
nal Moreover, it was urged that Subodh was a leading member of the Ahmeda- 
bad City Backward Classes voters’ Council, which was working for the first res- 
pondent and other Congress candidate, and Jayantibhai Subdoh and the first res- 
pondent were moving about together at the time of the election campaign- At 
the time when counting was going on, Jayantibhai Subdoh had admittedly work- 
ed as the Counting Agent of the first respondent. It is, therefore, urged that the 
publication by Jayantibhai Subdoh should be held to be a publication with the 
consent of the first respondent Under S. 123(4) of the Act, any publication by an 
agent of the candidate, of any statement of fact which is false, and which he 
either believes to be false or does not believe to be true, in relation to the personal 
character, conduct and candidature of any candidate, being a statement reasonably 
calculated to prejudice the prospects of that candidate’s election, is sufficient to 
bring it within the corrupt practice referred to m S- 100(1) (b) of the Act; and the 
Court must come to the conclusion that the corrupt practice had been committed 
by the returned candidate or his agent. Even if this argument that Jayantibhai 
Subdoh as the agent of the first respondent had published this issue of “Tamanna", 
dated February 10, 1967 were to be accepted it cannot be said to amount to the 
commissioner of the corrupt practice defined in S- 123(4) by the returned candi- 
date or by any other person with the consent of tho returned candidate or his 
election agon I It is possible that Subdoh himself on his own responsibility and 
in his enthusiasm to support tho cause of the Congress candidate, viz., the first 
respondent, published these passages lti the issue of “Tamanna” of 10th February 
1967, and not as the agent of the first respondent, Simply because Subdoh was 
the counting agent of !ho first respondent, it cannot be said that he was also his 
agent at the time when he published the issue of “Tamanna” dated February, 10, 
1967. 


In Issue No. 5, I have to deal with Jcthalal Bhavanbhai Jadav. Under S. 123(7) 
of the Act, obtaining or procuring or abetting or attempting to obtain or procure 
by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of a candidate 
or his election agent, any assistance (other than the giving of vote) for the fur- 
therance of the prospects of that candidate’s election, from any person in the ser- 

vice of tho Government and belonging to any of the following classes Is a corrupt 
practice namely: — 

“(f) revenue officers other than village revenue officers known as lambar- 
dars, malguzars, patels, deshmukh or by any other name, whose duty 

is to collect land revenue and who are remunerated by a share of, 

or commission on. the amount of land revenue collected bv them hut 
who do not discharge any police functions ” 


Regarding Jethalal B. Jadav, the averment In the petition is as follows' — 


“The petitioner submits that respondent No. 1, his agents and other persons 
with the consent of respondent No 1 have committed a corrupt prac- 
tice of obtaining or producing or attempting lo obtain or procure as- 
sistance for the furtherance of the prospect of respondent No- I s elec 
tlon from the persons in the service of the Government and belonging 
to the category of Gazetted Officer. Members of Armed Forces, Mem- 
bers of the Police Force and Revenue Officers discharging the police 
functions. Some of the instances thereof are as under:— 


(a) Kh*i Te’tmlal B. Jadav, who is in the Income-tax Department of the 
Government of India and who Is presently posted at Ahmedabad 
in Circle II Of the Income-tax office, was working and canvassing 
for the election of respondent No. 1.” 



i6oi 


Sec. 8(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 


Now, it has come out in the evidence before mo that there are at least two work- 
ers amongst the Harljan Community in Ahmedabad both with the name of Jetha- 
lal B Jadav, and both are taking part in the social activities of this community. 
One is Jethalal Bhavanbhai Jadav. Hs is an employee of the Income-Tax Depart- 
ment holding a substantive post of a peon and officiating as a Lower Division 
Clerk since December 13, 1963. The' other peison is Jethalal Bccbarbhai Jadav, 
also known as "Vyayam Veer”, because he is interested m athletics; and it is con- 
tended that Jethalal Bhavanbhai Jadav, the employee of the Income-Tax Depart- 
ment, was closely connected with the election campaign of the first respondent 
and the first respondent had obtained or procured the assistance of Jethalal 
Bhavanbhai Jadav in his election campaign. 


The first respondent has examined Narottamdas Sham]ibhai Purabia, 
Respondent’s witness No 2 ■ This person is an educated man having passed 
M.Se. Examination oi the Gujarat University and he has also! passed M Sc. from 
one ol the Universities in the United States of America. According to this 
witness it is Jethalal B Jadav, “Vyayam Veer”, who is the Secretary of the 
Ahmedabad City Backward Classes Voters’ Council and the person who is shown 
as the Secretary m Ex- “G” is Jethalala Becharbhai Jadav, This witness also 
staled in his evidence that hei knew Jethalal B. Jadav the employee of the Income- 
Tax Department was not connected in any manner with the voters’ Council He 
further stated that .Jethalal B. Jadav. the employee of the Income-Tax Department, 
is the President oi the Ideal Welfare Society. Jethalal Becharbhai Jadav Is also 
one of the members of the Ideal Welfare Society; and tills witness denied the 
suggestion that Jethalal Bhavanbhai Jadav had taken a leading part in the 
Ahmedabad City Backward Classes Voter’s Council- I accept purabia’s version 
coming as it does from a responsible source and hold thut Jethalal Bhavanbhai 
Jadav, the employee of the Income-Tax Department, was not the Secretary of 
the Ahmedabad City Backward Classes Voters’ Council but at the same time in 
view of the fact that Purabia worked for the first respondent in his election 
campaign, he cannot altogether be said toi be free from the taint of partisanship; 
and under thos? circumstances, as regards his assertion that Jethalal Bhavanbhai 
Jadav had not taken any part in the work otf the Ahmedabad City Backward Classes 
Voters' Council. I will have to take that evidence with a bit of caution. 

Another witness on the record of this case, viz., Chaturbhai Nathubhai Parmer, 
Petitioner’s witness No 1(1,. who is a student studing fo(r M-A. and LL-B-, and 
who is actively connected with the Congress Party, being a member of that party, 
has stated in his evidence that he knew both Jethalal Bhavanbhai Jadav, employee 
of the Income-Tax Department, and Jethalal Becharbhai Jadav, "Vyayam Veer”, 
since both of them were residing in the Co-operative Housing Society where 
Chaturbhai was residing. According to Chaturbhai, it was .Jethalal Bhavanbhai 
Jadav, employee of the Income-Tax Department, who was associated with the 
Ahmedabad City Backward Classes Voter’s Council and not Jethalala Becharbhai 
Jadav, the “Vyayam Veer”. According to Chaturbhai, Jethalal Becharbhai Jadav 
was not connerfed with any political parly, nor was he participating in the Ahmed- 
abad City Backward Classes Voters’ Council; and he has also referred to the 
short speech delivered by Jethalal B, Jadav, employee of the income Tax Depart- 
ment. held in Ganpat Housing Society. This witness Chaturbhai appeared to me 
to be a sincere person out to speak the truth and his demeanour has also struck 
me as that of a truthful witness. He has no axe to grind. On the contrary, he 
was a supporter of the Congiess Party as shown by the membership receipt, wfiiich 
he produced when ho was being cross-examined. It was urged before me on 
behalf ol the first respondent that Chaturbhai belonged to the same sub-caste as 
the petitioner and. therefore, he had come to depose falsely in favour of a fellow 
member of his own sub-caste. 1 am unable to accept this contention because 
nothing has been brpught on the record to show that Chaturbhai was In any 
way related to or In any way interested in the petitioner. The petitioner has 
led evidence of other witnesses as well to show that Jethalal B. Jadav, employee 
of the Income Tax Department, was working for the petitioner, Jivenlal, whose 
evidence I have found acceptable in connection with the distribution of the issue 
of “Tamanna”, has stated in his deposition that at the meeting held at Vijayanagar 
Housing Society, Jethalal B Jadav the Income-Tax employee, had addressed the 
meeting along with Jayantibhal Subodh and the first respondent. In his cross- 
examination he stated that he knew' Jethalal Bhavanbhai Jadav of the Income- 
Tax Department. Jlvanlal knew him because Jethalal was associated with various 
social activities .Jivanlal denied the suggestion that he had falsely mentioned 
the name Jethalal Bhavanbhai Jadav In connection with the meeting of the 



1602 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Part II- 


Vijayanagar Society- Thus, this witness also establishes the fact that Jethalal 
Bhavanbhai Jadav, in the company of the first respondent, had visited Vijayanagar 
Society and had addresed the meeting at that Society. 

Babulal Gandalal Parmer, Petitioner’s witness No- 10 has deposed about the 
formation ot£ the Backward Classes Voters’ Council. According to Babulal, at a 
function held on January 4, 1907 e proposal was mooted for the formation of 
the Council and that proposal was carried out at that meeting, Jethalal B. Jadav, 
the employee of the Income Tax Department, had spoken at that meeting. But 
the evidence! of this witness Babulal does not establish the fact that Jethalal B. 
Jadav, the employee of the Income-Tax Department, had in any way assisted the 
first respondent in his election campaign. 

Jayantibhai Ambaram Subodh. Petitioner's witness No- 12, has denied the 
suggestion that Jehalal B. Jadav, the employee of the Income-Tax Department, 
was connected in an~ r manner with the Ahmedabad City Backward Classes Voters’ 
Council; but since he is a partisan witness, his evidence cannot help the first 
respondent in any manner. 

Ganpatbhai Mongaldas Parmer, Petitioner’s witness No. 18, has also stated 
about Jethalal B. Jadav, Jayantibhai Subodli and the first respondent visiting the 
Chawl at Rakhial, where Ganpathbhai was residing and according to this witness, 
Jethalal B. Jadav, the first respondent and his workers had distributed copies 
of the booklet, Ex. “G”, and in reply to a question put by the Court, he stated 
that he knew .Jethalal B Jadav, the employee of the Income-Tax Department. It 
Is only on the evidence of Jivanlal, Petitioner’s witness No- 8, out of all these 
witnesses, the! it can be held that Jethalal Bhavanbhai Jadav, the employee of 
the Income-Tax Department had accompanied the first respondent at the time 
when a meeting was held at Vyayunagar Society and thatl this Jethalal B- Jadav 
had spoken at that meeting- It is, therefore, clear that Jethalal B. Jadav, the 
employee of the Income-Tax Department had to that extent assisted the first 
respondent in his election campaign. 

The question then arises whether Jethalal Bhavanbhai Jadav is a Revenue 
Officer within the meaning of S, 123(7)- It is clear in the context of S- 123(7) of 
Act that the Income-Tax Officers and Officers above the Income-Tax Offi- 
cers like the Appellate Assistant Commissioners, Inspecting Assistant Com- 
missioners and Commissioners are all Gazetted Officers and they would 
fall in Clause (a) of S- 123(7). Therefore that term "Revenue Officers” 
must be read separately from “Gazetted Officers’’ occurring in Cl. (a) of S. 123(7) 
of the Act. "An Officer" does nolt necessarily mean any employee designated 
as such but any holder of an office can be said to be “an officer”. For example, 
under the Code of Criminal Procedure, even a Police Constable or a Head Constable, 
who may be in charge of a Police Station, is referred to as! an Offlcer-in-Charge 
of a Police Station though ordinarily a Police Constable or a Head Constable 
is not referred to ns an Officer of the Police Force. It Is true that In clauses (c) 
and (cl), members of the Armed Forces of the Union and the members of the 
Police Forces are mentioned and if the Legislature had not intended it could have 
said “all members of the revenue services of India” but the Legislature hag referred 
only to Revenue Officers- “Revenue" does not necessarily mean “land reveijue” 
but any revenue either of the State or of the Union and if there Is any Officer 
ie., holder of any post discharging the functions concerned with the collection or 
assessment of revenue, then he would be a revenue officer within the meaning of 
S. 123(7) (f) of the Act. 

In Sheopataingh v. Narishchandra — A.I.R. 1958 Rajasthan 324 Wanchoo C. J. 
and Jagat Narayan J. have held that the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 

Is an all India Act and there is no reason to give a restricted meaning to the wora 
•revenue’ as used in this Act and confine it to land revenue, as it is done In the 
Rajasthan Tenancy Act This word has been used in a wider sense and the 
term “Revenue Officer” should be taken to mean any officer employed in the 
business of any sort of revenue by the Union or the States. This definition will 
thus include non-gazetted officers of all the departments dealing with Union or 
State Revenue. The term "Revenue Officer” will thus include such officers of the 
Income-tax, Sales Tax and Irrigation Department as well as the Land Revenue 
Department, who are employed in the business of revenue. In that particular 
case, the Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court held that a Reader of the 
Colonisation Tahsildar whose duty is to allot Government Lands to tenants and 
to fix rent on them is a Revenue Officer within the meaning of the Act. So, also 
an Irrigation Pat war j whose duty is to maintain records with the help of which 



Sec, 3(il)] THE CA7FTTE OF INDIA: MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 


1603 


irrigation dues are collected is a Revenue Officer. Sol far as a Lower Division 
•Clerk of the Income Tux Department is concerned, Parshuram Baburao Bhatkar, 
Petitioner's witness No- 1 who is working as Head Clerk in the Incofme Tax Office 
at Ahmedabad has stated that Jethalal B Jadav has been officiating as a Lower 
Division Clerk since December 13, 1963- According to this witness, a Lower 
Division Clerk in his Department generally is in charge of Inw’ard and Outward 
despatch work. He is also in charge of filing and maintenance of case record of 
the different assessees- He also fixes up the appointments for the assessee with 
the Income Tax Officers and his Superior Officers and hands over the written 
intimation to the notice servers in the Department. A Lower Division Clerk also 
attends tel the general typing work and the work of maintenance of registers is 
also entrusted to him. Over and above these kinds of work, a lower division 
■clerk attends to such other work as may be assigned to him by his Superior Officers. 
From the description of the work which a Lower Division Clerk in the Income 
Tax Department has to attend, it is clear that he is in charge of maintenance 
of registers and other 1 records of the Department and thus it is clear that a Lower 
Division Clerk, like Jelhalala Bhabanbhai Jadav, is a holder of an Office in 
connection with the assessment or collection of revenue viz., income tax. Under 
these circumstances, in the light of the decision of the Rajasthan High Court in 
Sheopatsinah’s case (supra), with which I respectfully agree, this employee 
Jethalal B. Jadav can be said to be a Revenue Officer within the meaning - of 
S 123 (7) U) of the Act 


However, the question that I have to consider is whether the first respondent 
obtained or procured assistance of Jethalal Bhavanbhai Jadav for the furtherance 
of the prospects of his election. What Jethalal Bhavanbhai Jadav spoke at that 
meeting at Vijaynagar Housing Society is not on the record of this case- The fact 
that Jethalal Bhavanbhai Jadav, the employee of the Income Tax Department, was 
connected with certain activities of the Ahmedabad City Backward Classes Voters’ 
Council can be accepted in view of the evidence of Chaturbhai but whether that 
assistance was for the furtherance of the election of the first respondent has not 
been established on the record of this case. The fact that the Ahmedabad City 
Backward Classes Voters’ Council was generally working in support of all Congress 
candidate, as shown by the booklet, Ex. “G”, does not necessarily mean that this 
Jethalal Bhavanbhai Jadav was working for the furtherance of the prospects of the 
first respondent’s election and that lacuna appears in the evidence led by the peti- 
tioner. Under these circumstances though I accept the petitioner’s evidence that 
Jathalal Bhavanbhai Jadav, the employee of the Income Tax Department, was con- 
nected with the Ahmedabad City Backward Classes Voters’ Council and though I 
iurther accept the evidence that, he spoke at the meeting held at Vijaynagar 
Housing Society at the time of the election campaign of the first respondent, It Is 
not possible for me to hold that that assistance was for the furtherance of the 
prospects of the first respondent's election. It Is for the petitioner to establish 
beyond reasonable doubt all the Ingredients of this particular corrupt practice and 
this particular corrupt practice of assistance of a revenue officer for the furtherance 
of the prospects of the first respondent’s election has not been established from the 
evidence led by the petitioner, The result, therefore, Is that Tssue No- 5 must be 
decided against the petitioner and in favour of respondent No. 1. 


At one stage of the evidence, the petitioner wanted to establish that respondent 
No. I had committed the corrupt practice of bribery Inasmuch as either he or his 
agent or other persons with his consent gave a gift and gratification to respondent 
No. 2 for standing at the election, but in view of the evidence of Yeshwantra Tukaram 
Indulkar, Petitioner’s witness No. 7, the learned counsel for the petitioner has not 
pressed this particular corrupt practice. 

In the light of the above discussion, I answer the issues as follows; — 

Issue No. (1) : Not pressed. 

Issue No. (2). : Not pressed. 

Issue No, (3) : Not pressed. 

Issue No. (4) : Not pressed. 

Issue No. (5) : In the negative; Second part does not arise. 



1604 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Part II— 


Issue No. (6) 
Issue No. (7) 
Issue No, (8) 
Issue No. (9) 

Issue No. (10) 


In the affirmative as to both parts. 

In the negative. 

Not pressed. 

In view of S. 100(1) (b) of the Act, it is clear 
that the election of respondent No. 1 is void. 

Does not arise. 


In view of the fact that the petitioner has succeeded only on one issue and has 
given up on Issue after leading evidence in that behalf and has lost on the other 
Issue regarding Jethalal B. Jadav, in my opinion, the petitioner should be paid the 
costs but while fixing the costs, Advocates’ fees should be fixed at Rs. 500/- (Five 
hundred). 

After the lodgment was delivered, Mr Shah, on behalf of the first respondent, 
applied for stay of the operation of this order, during the time that he might take 
to file an appeal before the Supreme Court. Under S. 116B of the Act, I grant stay 
of operation of this order for a period of six weeks from the date of supply of the 
certified copy of the judgement in this matter. Mr. Shah, on behalf of the first 
respondent, undertakes that during the period of stay his client will not attend any 
session of the Lok Sabha, except to save disqualification, or work in any capacity 
as the member of the Lok Sabha. The first respondent through his counsel also 
undertakes not to draw any remuneration as a member of the Parliament till further 
orders are obtained from the Supreme Court. 

(13th November 1907) 

On the application of Mr. S- M- Shah, on behalf of the first respondent, the 
order passed regarding stay pending appeal to the Supreme Court is modified to 
this extent that the first respondent will be permitted to sign the Daily Register of 
attendance at the Lok Sabha but will not participate in any other manner in the 
work of the Lok Sabha nor draw any remuneration as the member of the Lok 
Sabha till further orders 


By the order of the Court, 

Sd/- M- A. Syed/2811 
Deputy R'egiatrar(I) 

dated this 28th day of November, 1967. 

Sd/- 

Deputy Registrar 
High Court of Gujarat 
Ahmedabad-9. 

14-12. 

[No- 82/23/67.] 
By Order, 

K. S- RAJAGOPALAN, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi , the 18th March 1968 

S.O. 1009 In pursuance of clause (1) of article 239 of the Constitution and in 

supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs No. S R.O- 1531, dated the 14th May, 1957. the President hereby 
directs that the Administrator of every Union territory (whether known as Adminis- 
trator, Chief Commissioner or Lieutenant Governor) shall, subject to the control 
of the President and until further orders, also exercise the powers and discharge 
the functions of the Central Government under section 7 of the Explosive Sub- 
stances Act. 1908 (6 of 1908), within that Union territory. 

[No. F. 2/5/68-UTL.] 
P. N. KAUL, Dy. Secy 



Sue. 3(ii)] 1 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 1605 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH, FAMILY PLANNING AND UD 
(Department of Health) 

New Delhi, the 9th March 1968 

S.O. 1010. — Whereas the Central Government have, in pursuance ol the pro- 
visions of clause (a) ol sub-scction (1) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council 
Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), nominated In consultation with the Government of Maha- 
rashtra, Dr. D- V. Virkar, Surgeon-General with the Government of Maharashtra, 
to be a member of the Medical Council of India with effect from the 7th March, 
1968 vice Dr. P ,M Bhandaikar lesigned; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 3 
of the said Act, the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry 
of Health No F 5 13/59-MI, dated the 9th January, I960, namely:— 


In the said notification, under the heading “Nominated under clause (a) of 
sub-section (1) oi section 3”, for the entry against serial No. 5, the following entry 
shall be substituted, namely:— 

“Dr. D V Vikar, Surgeon-General with the Government of Maharashtra, 
Bombay”. 


[No. F.4-2S/67-MPT.] 
L. K MURTHY, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & SHIPPING 
(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the l'2lh March 1961! 

S.O. 1011. — In exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph 37 of the Seamen’s 
Provident Fund Scheme, 1966, and in supersession of the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the late Ministry of Transport and Aviation (Department of 
Transport and Shipping) (Transport Wing) No. S.O. 230, dated the 9th January, 
1967, the Central Government, after consulting the Board of Trustees of the Sea- 
mens Provident Fund and having regard to the resources of the Fund available 
for meeting its normal administrative expenses, hereby fixes, with effect from 
the 1st April, 1968, the administrative charges payable under paragraph 35 of the 
said Scheme, at 3 per cent (three per cent). 


[No, 5-MT(2)/68.] 


K. V. SANKARAN, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 8th March 1968 


S.O. 1012. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinema- 
tograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3). of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of the 



H 6 o 6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Part II- 

Cinematograph (Cen-orship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri Kota Punniah after consultation with Central Board of Film Censors, as a 
member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with Immediate effect. 

[No. F. 11/3/68-FC.] 

H. C. KHANNA, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT & COMPANY AFFAIRS 


(Department of Industrial Development) 


Neiv Delhi, the 16 th March 1968 


S.O. 1013, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 10 
•of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Act, 1952 (36 of 1952), 
read with rule 13 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Rules, 
1955, and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India, in the 
late Ministry of Industry and Supply (Department of Industry) No. S O. 4103 dated 
the 27th November, 1964, the Central Government, In consultation with the Indian 
Standards Institution, hereby directs that any powers exercisable by the said Insti- 
tution under Clause (e) of section 3 of the said Act, shall be exercisable also by 
the Indian Jute Industries Research Association (IJIRA), Calcutta in respect of Jute 
products manufactured by Mills situated in the following states: — 


(1) Andhra Pradesh, 


(2) Bihar, 

(3) Madhya Pradesh, 

(4) Uttar Pradesh, and 


(5) West Bengal. 


[File No, 39(81 )-PP&D/G7.1 
K. BALACHANDKAN, Jt. Secy. 


STtatfrnF fWM rT«TT 

fit 16 Rpf 1 9 6 8 


1014. — TTRrffcf f^) WfapRUT, 19 52 

,{ i 9 52 vr 36 ) tfterrtr 1 o t-inkt (i) ffTvr vrfaffiff tt 5 rff>T ^ 



■Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 28, 1968/CHA1TRA 8 , 1890 1607 


'•TIVfM 7PPP TCTT (iPTPrftaROT ) trfafkHT, 19 55 ^ fW 1 3 % 7T7 ^ 

ttt NRd jtpfr t wr gsrk h 7T fiRTr f?rm (trcrk ffwFi) k #^ir 

rrq-o sffo 4 | 03, fTTW 27 73RR i 0 64 TT 51^777 tfkk 77?R Nrkk 

TTTT 7RTT #T fiTURf 7 tT^Rr ^ faTW tff f fT 7f7f~777 £ 3 77 

TT (t) <£ qR-JR 7 PIT JRT 7777 k srk ttnV 7*ft TrfkTT TTwf 7 

fTTT 5T3 -3TTkf spf f77k 7R7 7fNt fkfT fr RTR 7 7HTfk 7 ? 73T7 8FJ77T7 77 
(71?° 3fto XTifo 5TRO (To) m,rp IPCT ff 7T7k 7ff<fr : — 


1 . 7PET T^ST, 

2. fsr?R, 

3. 7RT SPUJT, 

4. TfR TkT, 771 

5. fifkP 7717 I 


|ff° 39(8l) fYo fTo TRTTo/67] 
R 7T777T^, 7777 7f77 I 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi, the 6th March 1968 

S.O. 1015. — The article covered in licence No. CM/L-1544 held by The Hind 
Iron Foundry, Railway Road, Batala, the details of which are given in the Notifica- 
tion published under S.O. 4258 in the Gazette of India, Part II— Section 3(11) dated 
9th December 1967 has been revised as under with effect from 1st February 1968: 

Sand Cast Iron Soil Pipes up to 100 mm size Brand; ‘HIND’. 

[NO. MD/12-2431.] 

A. K. GUPTA, 


Deputy Director General. 



i6o8 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Part II— 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATION 

(P, & T, Board) 

New Delhi, the 1 2th March 1968 

S.O, 1016.— In pursuance of para (2) of Section III of Rule 431 of Indian Tele- 
graph Rules, 1951, as Introduced by S.O- No. 627 dated 8th March, 1960, the 
Director-General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifies the 1st April, 1968 as the 
date on which the Measured Rate System will be introduced in Sonopat Telephone 
Exchange. 


[No. 5/ 29/68-PHB(3 '■] 
D. R. BAHL, 

Assistant Director General (PHB) 


(ThF-NIT ) 

di i2 Rif in 68 

tJHo WV 101 7 1 — Rllft R1RU RRRERT 627 ftRM- 8 RPT, if) (JO JTTT 
ffR no 19 5 1 f 'tTTTrfR RR ffiRRf T ffRW 434 ^ III f RU (p) f ilRR(T 
■STdT-dTT RfirfRURP R Rpfhl'f fUT R 1-4-68 R RRlfqR 5R RRTH 1 RR 3NR 

spr favRR fw | i 

[R° 5-29/68-Tto JJRo aFto ( 3)J 

ffo N I < a 

R^TRR R^PR^PF (fro (TRO fto) | 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi , the 18 th March 1968 

S.O. 1018. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 126 of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the follow- 
ing amendment to the Schedule annexed to its Notification No. l (F. No. 55/233/ 
63-IT), dated the 18th May, 1964: — 

In the said Schedule, the words ‘‘and residing” as appearing in column 2 of 
Serial No- 4) (j) and 4 1 (k), shall be substituted by words “and/or residing”. 

[No. 4 (F. No. 55/129/ 67-IT) ] 
A. RAGHAVENDRA RAO, Under Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF EXCISE AND CUSTOMS 

Customs 

New Delhi, the 18th March 1968 

S.O. 1019. — In exercise of the powers' conferred by sections 157 and 158 of lb? 
Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) and of all other powers enabling it in this behalf 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 1609 


Ihe Central Board of Excise and Customs hereby makes the following addition in 
the Table appended to its Notification No- 21 (F- No- 10/33/87-Ad. V) published 
as S-O, 754 in Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii) of the Gazette of India dated 2nd 
March, 1968: — 

After the existing serial number 4, the following entries shall be inserted against 
columns (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) of the Table: — 

“5, Class IV Staff Rs. 1.00 Rs. 1.25 Rs. 1.25 Rs. 1.50”. 

[No. 49 (F. No. 10/33/67-Ad. V).] 
M- G. ABROL, Member, 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 16th March 1968 

S-O- 1020. — In exercise of thel powers conferred by section 8 of the Emblems and 
Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950 (12 of 1950), the Central Government 
hereby directs that in the Schedule to the said Act, in item 9A, after the words 
■ pictorial representation of” the words “Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj or” shall be 
inserted 

[No. 13 (3)Exp/Insp/ 67.] 
M K B. BHATNAGAR. Under Secy- 


(Office of the Jt. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports) 

ORDER 

Calcutta, the 21st February 1968 

SO. 1021.— A licence No. P/SS/1593105/C/XX/23/C/C/23-24/AU-V, dated 
3th February 1967 of the value oi Rs. 21-0(10/- for import of Cellulose Acetate 
Butyrate Powder Virgin materials & 1st Quality Standard Products was issued to 
M/s. prem Pen Products, 50/7, Sri Arbmda Road, Sulkia, Howrah subject to the 
onditionr as under: — 

(a) all items imported under it shall be used only in the licence holder s 
lac lory at the address shown in the application against which the 
licence is Issued and no portion thereof will be utilised by the licensee 
for a unit I purpose other than the one for which the licence in question 
is issued or will be -old or permitted to be utilised by any other party. 
The licensee shall maintain proper account of consumption and utili- 
sation of the goods imported against the licence- 

2. Thereafter, a show cause notice No. 110/66/E&L dt. 29th January 1968 was 
"S'- led asking them to show cause within 15 days as to why the said licence in 
S favour Should not be cancelled on the ground that the licence n question was 
obtained by mis-representation of facts in terms of Clause 9, sub claiue ). 

7 The aforesaid show-cause notice had been returned undelivered by the Postal 
' uthoiities with the remarks “Company abolished, proprietor left - 

4 The undersigned has carefully examined the case and has come the conclu- 
sion that the licence in question was obtained by mis-representation of facts. 

5. Having regal'd to what has been stated in the proceeding paragraph the 

undersigned is satisfied that the licence in e xerdseofthe powers 

wise rendered ineffective Therefore, the undei signed, in • Order 1955 

vested In him under Clause 9 w n 07/ C / XX/ ?3 / C°/ C / 2T24 / AU-V dated 8th 

hereby cancel the licence No P/SS/159,R0 U C /XX/23/ L / W W cui 

February, 1967 for Rs. 21,000/- issued in favour of M/s. Fiem Pen troom u , 
,3ri Arablnda Road, Salkia, Howrah. 

[No 110/G6/E&L-] 
J. MUKHERJI, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports 
for Jt, Chief Controller of Imports & Exports- 



l6io 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 8, 1890 [Part II— 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 11th March 1968 

S.O, 1022.— M/s. Amortex Agencies Private Limited, Flat No. 52, Warden 
Court, Gowalia Tank Road, 5th Floor, Bombay-26, were granted an import licence 
No. P/NA/ AU/1266627/C/XX/24/ C/H/21-22 dated 31st March 1967 for Rs. 25,111/- 
(Rupees twenty-five Thousand One hundred and eleven only) for the import of 
Pharmaceutical Raw Materials as per list attached thereto. The licensee have 
now applied to this Office for the issue of a duplicate Customs Purposes copy of 
the said licence on the ground that the original Customs Purposes copy of the 
licence In question, has been misplaced/lost. It is further stated that the original 
Customs Purposes copy of the licence has not yet been registered with any Customs 
Authorities and the same was not utilised at all- The duplicate Customs Furposes 
copy of the licence now required by the licensee is for the full value of the licence 

i.e. for Rs. 25,111/-- 


2- In support of their contention the licensee have filed an affidavit. I am 
accordingly satisfied that the original Customs Purposes copy of the said licence 
has been lost. Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred under sub-clause 
9(CC) of the Imports (Control) order, 1955 dated 7th December 1955 (as amended), 
the original Customs Purposes copy of the licence No P/NA/AU/1266527/C/XX/ 
24/C/H/21-22 dated 31st March 1967 issued to M/s. Amortex Agencies Private 
Ltd-, Flat No 52, Warden Court, Gowalia Tank Road, 5th Floor, Bombay-26, Is 
hereby cancelled, 

3- A duplicate Customs Purposes copy of the said licence Is being issued to 
the licensee separately. 

M/s, Amortex Agencies Private Ltd , 

Flat No- 52, Warden Court, 

Gowalia Tank Road, 5th Floor, 

Bombay-26. 


[No, NDRS/ A574/65-66/4148.] 
Y. J. DENNISON, 
Dy. Chief Controller 


MINISTRY OF FOOD, AGRICULTURE, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

COOPERATION 

(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 13 th March 1908 

S.O. 1023. — In pursuance of sub-section (1) and sub-section (2), of section 15 
of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 ( 59 of 1900), and in supersession 
of the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture (Department of Agriculture) No, S.O. 3398, dated the 26th September, 
1964, the Central Government, on the advice of the Animal Welfare Board, hereby 
constitutes a Committee for Controlling and Supervising Experiments on Animals 
consisting of the following persons as members, and nominates Shri Kumalnayan 
Bajaj, as Chairman of the said Committee, namely: — 

1, The Director, Central Research Institute, Kasauli, 

2. The Director, Haffkini Institute, Bombay. 

3, The Director, The Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagor. 

4. The Deputy Director, General of Health Services, Directorate-General of 

Health Services, New Delhi, 

3. Dr. (Mrs.) B. K. Batra, Officer-in-charge, Laboratory Animals, Informa- 
tion Service and Head of Embroyology Section of the Biology 
Division, Tata Memorial Centre, Parel, Bombay. 

6. Dr. A. B. Kar, Scientist ‘F’, Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow. 

7. Dr L N. Mohapatra Associate Professor of Microbiology, All India Insti- 

tute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, 



SBC. 8(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAJTRA 8, 1890 


i6ir 


8. Dr. E. R. B. Shamnugasundaram, Professor, Department of Biochemistry, 

University of Madras, Madras, 

9. Shri B. K. Aikat, Director-Professor, Pathology, Post-graduate Institute 

of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh. 

10. Shri Kamalnayan Bajaj, Member, Lok Sabha. 

11. ShrLmati Rukmani Devi Arundale, Chairman, Animal Welfare Board, 

Gandhinagar, Madras. 

12. Shri G. R. Rajagopaul, Vice Chairman, Animal Welfare Board, C.53, 

South Extension — Part I, New Delhi. 

13. Shri J. N. Mankar, Honorary Secretary, Bombay Humanitarian League, 

149, Shroff Bazar, Bombay. 

14 Shri V. N- Dwivedi, Director, Institute of Ayurvedic Studies and Research, 
Jamnagar. 

[No. 19-2/67-L.D.III.] 
SANTOKH SINGH, Under Secy. 


(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi the 18th March 1968 

S.O. 1024.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking) Act 1937 (1 of 1937), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Pulses Grading and 
Marking Rules, 1964, the same having been previously published as required by 
the said section, namely:— 

1, These rules may be called the Pulses Grading and Marking (Amendment) 
Rules, 1908. 

2. In the Pulses Grading and Marking Rules, 1964, 

(i) for rule 5, the following rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

“6. Grade Designation Mark. — (1) The grade designation mark in the case 
of kg. and 1 kg. packings of pulses (whole or split) packed in poly- 
thene or paper bags, shall consist of a design incorporating the num- 
ber of the certificate of authorisation, the word ‘Agmark’ and the 
grade of the pulses (whole or split) as approved by the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser. 

(2) The grade designation mark in the case of pulses (whole or split) pack- 
ed in containers of jute or cloth as also in containers in which sealed 
polythene bags of graded pulses (whole or split) are packed shall 
consist of a label specifying the grade designation and bearing a 
design (consisting of an outline map of India with the word ‘Agmark^ 
and the figure of the rising sun with the -words ‘Produce of India’ 

and *nr=fW s TTT resembling the one as set out in Schedule I.” 

(ii) in rule 6, 

(1) in sub-rule (1), for the words “affixed to each container”, the words 

“affixed to or printed on each container” shall be substituted; 

(2) for pu^-rule (2), the following sub-rule shall be substituted, namely:— 

“(2) In addition to the grade designation mark, the following particulars 
shall also be clearly and indelibly marked on each container, 
namely:— 

(a) date of packing in code or plain letters, 

(b) lot number, and 

(c) net weight.” 

(3) in sub-rule (3), for the words “affixed to the container”, the words 

"affixed to or printed on the container" shall be substituted. 

(iii) i n Schedules II, IV, V and VI, under the column “General Characteristics”, 
for item (c) and the entry relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, 
namely: — 



1612 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 2S, 1968/CHAITRA 8, 1890 [Part II- 


"(c) be sweet, clean, wholesome and free from moulds, weevils, obnoxious 
smell, discolouration, admixture of deleterious substances (including 
added colouring matter) and all other impurities except to the extent 
indicated in the Schedule;”. 

[No. 13-1/67-AM.] 

S.O. 1025. — The following draft of rules further to amend the Onions Grading 
and Marking Rules, 1964, which the Central Government proposes to make, in 
exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading 
and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937) are published, as required by the said sec- 
tion for the information of all persons likely be affected thereby and notice is 
hereby given that the said draft will be "token into consideration on or after 20th 
. April, 1968. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the dr' e specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Rules 

1. These rules may be called the Onions Grading and Marking (Amendment) 
Rules, 1968. 

2. In the Onions Grading and Marking Rules, 1964, for Schedule II, the follow- 
ing Schedule shall be substituted, namely: — 

Schedule II 


(See rule 3 and 4 ) 

"Grade designation and ’definition of quality of Nasik/Saurashtra/Bellary Onions (Allium cepa, L) 


Grade Designa- 

Special Characteristics 

General Characteristics 


Size (Diameter) in 
mm (Min.) 

Colour 

X 

2 

3 

4 


The Bulbs shall — 

1 . be reasonably uniform in 
shape, colour and purgency 
characteristics of the variety/ 
type ; 

2 . be mature, solid in feel, 
reasonably firm with tough 
clinging skins free from doubl- 
es and bottle necks. 

3 . be thoroughly canned and 
dried. 

4 . be free from damage caused by 
seed-stem, cops, roots, mois- 
ture, dry sun-scold, sun-burn, 
sprouting and mechanical or 
other utilities and atainingdirt 
or other foreign material and 

g. be free from moulds, diseases 
softrot, decay and insect attack 


f40TE.— 1 . Tolerance for size . . . For accidental errors in sizing, not more than 

5 % by weight of the bulbs in any lot may be 
of the next lower grade than the minimum 
diameter prescribed. 

2 . Tolerance for requirements in res- To allow for variations other than size incident 

pact of general Characteristics. to proper grading and handling not more 

than 10 % by weight of the onions may fail 
to meet the requirements of the grade, 

3 . Mixed*** ..... This grade may be packed against a ‘Firm 

Order’ only, 

B** The grade B shall apply to onions commercially* known as phol onions and grown in Nasik 
district. The percentage of seed stem onions shall not exceed 20 % besides the usual 
tolerance indicated in footnote 2 ”. 

[No. 13-29/67-AM.] 
V. S. NIGAM, Under Secy, 


Extra Big 

55 

Light to Ro; 

Big A 

45 

Do. 

Big B 

45 

Do. 

Medium A 

35 

Do. 

B** 

35 

Do. 

Small A 

20 

Do. 

B** 

20 

Do. 

Mixed A*** . 

Different sizes of a 

Do. 

B ** 

variety' not below 
20 mm. 

Do. 

Do. 


Sue. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 8th March 1868 


1613 


, Pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1847 (14 

1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the Industrial dispute between the emolovers in 

r, e , la l l01 L to ** Model Jha . r!a c °J ]fer y. Post Offlce^harla (DMnbad) P ^dThel? 

workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the 2nd March 1968 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-CUM-LABOUR 

COURT AT DHANBAD 

Act In i947 rnatt6r ° f 8 reference under section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial Disputes 


Reference No- 51 of 1967 

Parties ; 

Employers In relation to the Model Jharla Colliery'. P.O. Jharla, (Dhanbad). 

Vs. 

Their Workmen. 

Present : 

Shri Kamla Sahal, — Presiding Officer 
Appearances : 

For the Employers : — None. 

For the Workmen: —Shri B. K. Lath, Advocate. 

State: Bihar Industry: Coal. 

Dhanbad, dated the 20 th February, 1968 


AWARD 


Being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists the Central Government has, 
by its order No. 2/114/67-LRII, dated the 9th November, 1967 made this reference 
under section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, the schedule attached to th» 
reference being as follows: — 


Schedule 

"Whether the management of Model Jharla Colliery was justified in termina- 
ting the services of Shri Lachhu Nonia, Miner with effect from the 17th 
March, 19077 If not, to what relief is the workman entitled?’ 1 


2, Notices were served upon both parties and the workman filed his statema*t 
before this Tribunal on the 27th December, 1967. No one appeared on the 16th 
January, 1968. which was the next date fixed, but I directed notice to Issue to both 
parties once again, fixing the 5th February, 1968 for hearing. The workman alone 
appeared on the 5th February- The employers in relation to Model Jharla Colliery, 
the company in question, did not appear. In order to give the company a laet 
chance, I directed issue of another notice to the company, fixing today for hearing. 
The workman has appeared through Mr. Lath, an Advocate, today- The company 
has remained absent. The case is, therefore, taken up ex-parte. 


3 It seems that chargesheet dated the 8th March, 1967 was served upon the work- 
man making the allegation that he quarreled with and assaulted his co-workers, 
working underground. He was suspended with effect from the 9th March. The 
chargesheet was actually served upon him on the 11th March and he submitted his 
explanation, denying the charge made against him. He was not served with any 
notice to the effect that an enquiry would be held. There is no evidence at all to 
show that an enquiry was actually held. Indeed, the employers have not even filed 
a written statement In which an allegation could be made that an enquiry was held 
By a letter dated the 17th March, 1967 issued under the signature of the Manager, 
Model Jharla Colliery, the workman, Lachhu Nonia, was informed that his employ- 
ment had been terminated with immediate effect from that very day i-e. the 17th 
March. 1967. 

4. It is manifest from what I have stated above that the services of the ^workman 
in question have been terminated without any domestic enquiry or a finding against 
him by an enquiry officer. There has been no determination of the question of the 



1614 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 8, 1890 [Part tr~ 


petitioner’s guilt- This is quite obviously contrary to the principles of natural jus 
lice- Such a dismissal must be held to be quite unjustified. 

5. In the result, I hold that the act oi the management of Model Jharia Colliery 
m terminating the service of Shri Lachhu Noma, Miner, was not justified. Hence, 
Shri Nonia Is entitled to be reinstated with full back wages and continuity of ser- 
vice. This Is my award Let it be submitted to the Central Government under 
section 15 of the Act. 


Sd-/- Kamla Sahai, 

Presiding Officer- 
[No. 2/114/ 67-LR'II-] 


New DeWxi, the lltfi March 1968 

S.O. 1027.- -In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal. Dhanbad. In the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the 6 & 7 Pits Jamadoba Colliery of Messrs Tata Iron and Steel 
Company Limited, Post Office Jealgora. District Dhanbad and their workmen r 
which was received by the Central Government on the 5th March, 1968. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUN AL-pUM- 
LABOUR COURT AT DHANBAD 

In the matter of a reference under section I0(l)(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947. 

Reference No- 54 or 1967 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the 6 & 7 Pits Jamadoba Colliery of Messrs Tata. 
Iron & Steel Co Ltd P O. Jealgora, Dist- Dhanbad- 

Vrs. 

Their Workmen 


PkfsenT: 

Shri Kamla Sahai -Presiding Officer 


Appearances: 

For the Employers . — Shri L- H. Parvatiyar, Legal 
For the Workmen - — Shri Anil Sarkar, Secretary, 
Union, Digwadih 

State: Bihar. 


Assistant. 

Tata Collieries Workers’ 
Industry: Coal. 


Dhanbad, dated the 20th February, 1968 

AWAKD 

Having formed the opinion that an industrial dispute exists, the Central Gov- 
ernment has made this reference under section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act — vide the Ministry’s order No 2/70/67-LRII dated the 14th November, 1967, 
with the following schedule: — 


Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management ol 6 & 7 Pits Jamadoba Colliery 
of Messrs Tata iron and Steel Company Limited. Post Office Jealgora, 
(Dhanbad) in dismissing Shri Tripura Banerjce. Clerk Grade III. 
lrom service with effect from the 10th December, 1968, was an act of 
victimisation? If so. to what relief Is the workman entitled?, 

2. I may shortly mention the facts The system which is said to be followed 
in 6 & 7 Pits of Jamadoba Colliery of Tata Iron and Steel Company is that bills 
ape prepared in favour of different payees and their names and other details are 
listed in one or more sheets. A clerk is deputed to be the paymaster for a parti- 
cular day. It is his duly to take from the cashier the total amount as shown 
In the sheet or sheets prepared for the particular day for which he is deputed 
as the paymaster. He goes on making payments to those Whose names are to be 
found in the list and taking their signatures or thumb impressions, as the case 
may be. against their names. He has to do all these in the presence of another 
clerk who is called a witness. The witness has to sign his name at the end after 
disbursement of the entire list under a stamped endorsement which reads “I 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 16x5 

hereby certify that I witnessed the payment of the wages and that payment has 
been made to the correct parties”. He has then put the date under his signature. 

3- After the total disbursement has been made for the day, the paymaster has 
to stamp the word “unpaid” against different amounts which remain unpaid, 
striking the total of the amount paid. The witness has nothing to do with the 
amount remaining unpaid but the paymaster has to show in his account the total 
of the unpaid balance. He has then to relund the unpaid balance to the cashier. 

4. On the 13th August, 1966, Shri S M- Missir, a clerk in Grade H was the 

paymaster and Shri Tripura Banerjec, a clerk in Grade ill, was the witness in 
respect of payments to be made relating to 6 & 7 Pits of the Colliery- The total 

amount put in the hands of the paymaster was Rs. 502.89 Paise. As shown by 

him in the stamped account, a total of Rs. 72-38 Parse remained unpaid while 
a sum of Rs. 430-53 paise was paid to different workmen including one Sibu Bid. 
It transpired later that the amount said to have been paid to Sibu Bid might have 
been paid to a wiong peison but it was not paid to him- Chargesheets No. 146 
dated 31st August 1966 and No. 154 dated 5th September 1906 were, therefore, 

issued respectively to Shri S. M Missir and Sri Tripura Banerjee. Enquiry into 

the two chargesheets was entrusted to Sri D. R- Mody, MW1, who has been 
working as Welfare Officer (Personnel) of the Tata Iron & Steel Co- I am not 
concerned at present with the case of Shri S- M. Missir. After examining the 
witnesses and looking into the papers on the 15th September, 1966, Sri Mody 
drew up his report (Ext- M14) on the 19th September, 1960. In this report, his 
conclusion regarding Tripura Banerjee was that he did not at all see Sibu Bid 
and was quite certain that there was foul play after payment had been completed 
and he had gone home He recommended that the chargesheet issued against him 
sboqjd be hied 

5. The management has not produced any paper to show that the Manager's 
reaction on the enquiry report was although the union insisted upon the produc- 
tion of a letter said to have been written by the Manager to the Chief Mining 
Engineer- Even on the date of hearing, Shri Parvatiyar, the legal Assistant of 
(he company, filed a petition, stating that the alleged letter was neither traceable 
in the Manager’s office nor in the Chief Mining Engineer’s office. The union, 
however, filed a photostat, copy of such a letter addressed by the Manager to the 
Asstt- Chief Mining Engineer, dated the 20th September, 1906. In this letter, the 
Manager purports to have said that he was in full concurrence with the findings 
of the enquiring officer that the foul play was committed by Shri Missir alone 
without collaboration of and in the absence of Shri Tripura Banerjee after the 
payment was over. 

6. Ext. M-8 is a letter addressed by the Asstt- Chief Mining Engineer, Jamadoba 
Group, to the Enquiring Officer, Shri Mody. The substantial part of this letter is 
m paragraph 2 which reads “Shri Tripura Banerjee in his statement has not 
stated clearly as to what were his specific duties and responsibilities as a witness 
to the payment. According to our procedure the witness has to certify on the 
paysheets as “I hereby certify that I witnessed the payment of the wages and 
that payment has been made to the correct parties” But from the enquiry report 
it is not clear whether this particular paysheet bore the certificate from Shri 
Tripura Banerjee or not. 

The Enquiry Officer, was, therefore, advised to make another enquiry and get 
the points mentioned in the letter clarified by checking the records and by con- 
fronting Shri Tripura Banerjee with it. 

7 After receiving Ex. M-8, Shri Mody further examined Shri Tripura Banerjee 
on the 10th October. I960. Shri Banerjec then said that he had given a certificate 
of the kind which is required of a witness but it is significant that the Enquiry 
Officer did not show him the stamped endorsement or the signature which he 
purports to have made on the list prepared on the 13th August, 1900 

8. However, the Enquiry Officer concluded the enquiry after examining Tripura 
Banerjec and submitted a supplementary report dated 26th October 1966. in 
which he found Tripura Banerjee guilty. 

9. By a letter dated the 5th December, 1966, Shri If. Neogy- the Asstt Chief 
Mining Engineer and Agent, Jamadoba Group conveyed to Shri Tripura Banerjee 
information that he was being dismissed with eilect from the 1 0th December. 
1966 



i6i6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA i MARCH 25, 1968/CHAITRA 5, 1890 [Part II- 


10. The question which I have to consider is whether the management’s act 
In dismissing Tripura Banerjee Is an act of victimisation. The 1st point which 
may be noted in this connection is that Shri Tripura Banerjee is a 
member of the Tata Collieries Workers Union which is not recognised by 
the management. Shri Anil Sarkar, the Secretary of that union, appeared before 
me, on behalf of the union. Shri Tripura Banerjee has examined himself and he 
has stated that he Is not only a member of the Tata Collieries Workers Union but 
he was its Secretary for 6 & 7 Pits in 1964. He has further said that he goes to 
the management sometimes with cases of workmen but they do not listen to him 
and that he was chargesheeted because of his activities in favour of that union. 
Shri Parvatiyar has taken from him in cross-examination that he gets prizes for 
preparing posters and paintings. I do not think that that 1 b a matter of importance. 
As he obviously has some skill in preparing posters, he may be getting prizes. It 
seems to me that the management must be annoyed with him because of his acti- 
vities on behalf of an unrecognised union. 


11. The second point to be noted is that the enquiring officer found him not 
guilty and the Manager concurred with the enquiring officer I am not prepared 
to say that the Asstt. Chief Mining Engineer could not Interfere but I am definitely 
of the view that he should have looked into connected records before interfering. 
Once he passed an order for the enquiring officer to make a further enquiry, It 
must have been construed by the enquiring officer to be a broad hint to him to 
find the alleged delinquent to be guilty. There are two very important points 
which the Asstt Chief Mining Englneei should have looked Into. The 1st point 
is that the whole system of getting a witness to put his signature under a certifi- 
cate of the kind for which the stamp has been prepared is wrong. The number 
of names in the list prepared on the 13th August, 1966 was 38. Payments were 
made to persons whose names appeared on one page or the other In accordance 
with the order In which they came- After the paymaster made a total of all these 
payments and put it down at the back of the list, it would be impossible for the 
supposed witness to say that payment had actually been made to all those who 
purported to have been paid. MW-2 is the cashier. He has said that it is the 
paymaster who draws up an unpaid list and that the witness does not sign that 
list This shows that the unpaid list must be prepared in the absence of the 
witness and Shri Parvatiyar has taken It from MW-2 that the unpaid list Is pre- 
pared In the case of any kind of payment, Including payment of sick allowances. 
I do not think that the witness could certify as to which of the payees was ac- 
tually paid unless the unpaid stamps were put In his presence and the unpaid 
Ust was prepared in his presence. This system could only work as a sure method 
if the witness was required to witness each payment as and when It was made. . . 


12. The other point which the Asstt'. Chief Mining Engineer and also the en- 
quiring officer appears to have missed Is that no stamp of the kind mentioned 
by the Asstt. Chief Mining Engineer or by the cashier, MW-2 has been put on the 
list Ext- M-ll prepared on the 13th August, 1968. There Is a stamp which la 
mostly indecipherable and which has been signed by Shri MIssir, the paymaster 
Shri Tripura Banerjee has just put down his signature below that stamp. It Is 
difficult to bind him to any statement contained in a stamped certificate when 11 
Is quite illegible. 


13- I may add that the chargesheet says that Shri Tripura Banerjee has made 
himself liable to disciplinary action under clause 19(2) of the standing orders. 
The standing orders or an extract of the standing orders has not been produced- 
1 have therefore, no Idea what act of Tripura Banerjee is said to constitute the 
misconduct He is not alleged to have made any payment to anybody. It is not 
said that he collaborated with Shri Misra in making wrong payment and there 
is no evidence to that effect. He has frankly said that he did not see SibuBid 
on the 13th August and, If Sibu Bid had come that day. he would have filled up 
his Bonus Card which he did not do. In all these circumstances, I am unable 
to find what misconduct he can be held to have committed 


14. I have no doubt at all in my mind that the enquiring officer found Tripura- 
Banerjee guilty simply because he was told by the Asstt- Chief Mining Engineer 
to make a further enquiry, He must have thought that that Engineer desired him 
to find Tripura Banerjee guilty. This amounts clearly to victimisation. The fact 
that the management did not produce a copy of the manager s letter addressed 
to the Chief Mining Engineer appears also to have been motivated by the idee 
that the punishment dealt with should stand rightly or wrongly I ^ve therefore 
no alternative but to hold that there has been victimisation in this case. Shri 



SEC. 8{li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH £5, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 


1617 


Banerlee is entitled to be reinstated with effect from the 10th December, 1900 
■with full back wages and continuity of service. 

15, The above decision is my award, Let it be submitted to the Central Govern- 
ment under section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

(Sd/-) Kamla Sahai, 
Presiding Officer, 

I No. 2/70/67-LRII.J 


S.O. 1028. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal (No. 2) Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the 
employers In relation to the New Sinidih Colliery of Messrs Bamandiha Coal Com- 
pany Limited, Post Office Katrasgarh, District Dhanbad and their workmen, which 
was received by the Central Government on the 6th March, 1968- 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 2) 

AT DHANBAD 


In the matter of a reference under Section 10(1) (cl) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 

Reference No. 109 of 1967 

Parties: 

Employers in relation to the New Sinidih Colliery of Messrs Bamandiha Coal 
Company Limited, Post Office Katrasgarh, District Dhanbad- 

AND 

Their workmen- 


Present: 

Sri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances: 

For the employers . — Sri M- K. Sinha, Supervisor. 

For the workmen ,— Sri Shanker Bose, Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor Sangh. 
State: Bihar. Industry; Coal. 


Dhanbad, dated the 29th February, 1968 
AWARD 

The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the New Sinidih Colliery of Messrs Bamandiha 
Coal Company Limited, Post Office Katrasgarh, District Dhanbad, and their work- 
men by its order No. 2/146/65-LRII dated 22nd February 1960 referred to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under Section 10(1) (d) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication the dispute in respeet of the matters 
specified in the Schedule annexed thereto. The Schedule is extracted below: — 

Schedule 

‘T- Whether the action of the management of the New Sinidih Colliery of 
Messrs Bamandiha Coal Company Limited was justified In suspending 
Sri D. P. Mitra, Register-Keeper, with effect from the 18th August, 
1965 and in subsequently dismissing him from service with effect from 
the 18th October, 1965. If not, to what relief is he entitled? 

II. Whether the action of the management of New Sinidih Colliery of Messrs 
Bamandiha Coal Company Limited was justified In stopping Sri Fagu 
Reward. Mining Sirdar, from work with effect from 6th August, 
1965 and refusing to provide employment thereafter? If not, to what 
relief is the workman entitled? 

III. Whether the action of the management of New Sinidih Colliery of Messrs 
Bamandiha Coal Company Limited In refusing work to S/Sri Butan 
Bouri and Janki Dussad. Boiler Attendants, with effect from the 23rd 
August, 1966 and 1st September, 1966, respectively, was justified? If 
not, to what relief are the said workmen entitled?” 




I6l8 1 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1%8/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Part II- 


2. The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the refer- 
ence as reference No 30 of I960 on its file The workmen filed their statement 
of demands. While it was pending before the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad the proceeding was transferred to this Tribunal, by the Central 
Government by its order No 8/25/G7-LRII dated 8th May 1967 under Section 
33B(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947- Consequently, the reference is re 
numbered on the tile of this Tiibunal as reference No 109 of 1967. 

3 On 26th February 1968 when the reierence was taken up for hearing evidence 
and arguments, the workmen were represented by Sri Shanker Bose, Secretary, 
Colliery Mazdoor Sangh and the employers by Sri M K. Sinha, Supervisor. Both 
parties filed a compromise memo and it was duly verified The terms of compro- 
mise are us follows:— 

“(a) It is agreed that in item No (1) of the schedule, Shri D. P. Mitra, 
Register-Keeper will be treated as if retrenched with effect from 18th 
October, 1965 

(b) It is agreed that in item No (II) ol the schedule, Sri Fagu RewanI, 

Mining Sirdar will be treated as if retrenched with effect from 6th 
August, 1965. 

(c) It is agreed that in item No. (Ill) of the schedule, S/Shri Butan Bouri 

and Janki Dussad, Boiler Attendants will be treated as if retrenched 
with effect from 23rd August, 1965 and 1st September, 1965 respec- 
tively. 

(d) That all the workmen in (a), (b) and (c) above will be paid compen- 

sation in terms of section 25F(b) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947). 

(e) That the said payment will be made within 30 days from the date of 

the Award becoming effective 

(f) That the parties will bear their respective costs of this proceedings ” 

4. 1 consider the terms as favourable to the affected workmen and also to the 
workmen. The compromise is, therefore, accepted and the award is made accord- 
ingly and submitted under Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

(Sd.) N. Venkata Rao, 
Presiding Officer. 


Appendix I 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO 2 ) AT 

DHANBAD 


Reference no. 109 of 1967 

Employers m relation to the New Sinidih Colliery of Messrs Bamandiha Coal Company Limited 
Post Office Katrasgarh, District Dhanbad. 

and 

Their workmen. 


JJst of Document' Admitted in Evidence for the Employers 


Dlatinguishing mark Description of do- Date of admis- Whether admit- Remarks 
or number cument and date ston ted after or with- 

out objection 


NIL 


NIL 


NIL 


NIL 


NIL 


Sir. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA.- MARCH 23, I968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 ifilg 


List of Documents Admitted in evidence for the Workmen 


l> 'i< ushtng mark Description of do- Date of admis- Whether admit- Remarks 
or number currtent and date sion ted after or 

without ob- 
jection 


NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL 

(Sd.) N, VBnkata Rao, 
Presiding Officer, 

APPENDIX II 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 2 ) AT 

DHANBAD 

Reference No. 109 op 1967 

n ■)’ n ers m 1 el mon to the New Sinidih Colliery of Messrs Bamnndih.i Coal Com pans Li nited. 
Post Office Katrasgarh, District Dhanbad. 

And 

Their workmen. 

List of Witnesses examined for the Employers 
No. of witness Name of witness Date of examination 


NIL 


NIL 


NIL 


List of Witnesses Examined for the Workmen 


No. of witness Name of witness Date of examination 


NIL 


NIL 


NIL 


(Sd.) N. Venkata Rao, 

Presiding Officer. 

("No. 2/146/ 05-LRII ] 


Neu' Delhi, the 12 th March 19611 

S.O. 1029. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
In relation to the Kamgarh Jharia Colliery, Post Office Karmatand via Mohuda, 
District Dhanbad and their workmen, which was received by the Central Govern- 
ment on the 5th March, 1968- 



1620 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 8, 1890 [Part II- 


before the central GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-CUM 
LABOUR COURT AT DHANBAD 

In the matter ol a reference under section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 

Reference No. 56 of 1967 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Ramgarh Jharla Colliery, Post Office Karma- 
tand via Mohuda, District Dhanbad. 

AND 

Their Workmen. 

Present: 

Shri Kamla Sahai, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances; 

For the Employers.— -Shri S- S- Mukherjee, Advocate. 

For the Workmen ■ — Shri B- K- Lath, Advocate- 

State: Bihar. Industry; Coal- 

Dhanbad, dated the 15 th February, 1908 
AWARD 

Having formed the opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the parties, 
the Central Government has, by its order No. 2/1 3 1/67- LRIi, dated the 18th 
November, 1967 referred the following question for adjudication to this Tribunal 1 — 

Schedule 

"(i) Whether the dismissal of Shri Karma Mahato, Pump Khalasis, with 
effect from the 24th August, 1067, by the maangenient of Ramgarh 
Jharia Colliery, Post Office Karmatand via Mohuda, District Dhanbad 
was justified? 

(ii) If not, to what relief is the workman entitled?” 

3. The facts of the case may be shortly stated- The concern ed ^^man, Shri 

Karma Mahato, has been working as a pump khalasis in the <£7 ®On h the 6th 
Colliery for several years. He felt feverish on the oth April, lwi. un tne oin 
April he appeared in the colliery office and was examined by the colliery doctor 
to° the presence of the Manager 7 Shri S- R. Chatter jee. The empffiyer s’ case 1*^ 
that Doctor Lahiri, the colliery Doctor, found Karma Mahato suffering fever 
and Rave him two days’ medicine, asking him to report again on the 8th April. 
The workman’s case is that he asked the Manager to request the doctor to attend 
him at his house because he felt ill but the Manager told him that the doctor 
could only attend him when he came to the colliery. 

•> It the admitted case of both parties that Karma Mahato did not appenr 

a? & ,o .o h fc.f £ 

3— S, tre^eM tomtto ™ April l to to 
SS ETSrJSZSfc SSxHjM STJtf. '“" d hto 

fit to resume duty. Hence, he resumed his duties from tne ara iviay 

^ « p Chatter! ee, issued a chargesheet (Ext. Ml) dated 

4. The Manager, Shri S Mahato asking him to show cause why appro- 

the 30th April, 1907 against Karma ^aha™ Vving been absent from the 

priate action should not be taken against hi S Anril, 1967. He, how- 

duty without duly approved leave with effectfromthe f work on the 

ever, allowed the workman to join hie duties when ne repor May Karma 

3rd May- In the show cause petition which he filed on t the Manager’s 

Mahato stated that he was examined by ffie wlli^ooc^ ^ ^ (K& 

presence on the 0th April and e colliery doctor to attend him at 
Mahato) requested the Manager to direct tne couiery 



Sec. 3(U)j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 28, 1968/CHAITRA 8 , 1890 162 I 


his house during his illness because of his high temperature but the management 
did not entertain the request and told Karma Mahato that he must come to the 
colliery in order to enable the colliery doctor to treat him. He further said In 
the same petition that he called in another doctor on the 7th April, 1067 and that 
the other doctor treated and cured him. He also attached Doctor Mukherjee’s 
certificate dated the 2nd May, 1967 to his petition in original. The certificate 
supported his case as to the course of his illness- The show cause petition is 
Ext- M2 and the certificate is Ext- M2 (a). 

6- By a letter dated the 17th May, 1967 (Ext M3) the Manager informed 
Karma Mahato that a departmental enquiry will be held into the charge-sheet 
dated the 30th April, 1967 issued to him on the 21st May, 1967 and that he (the 
workman) should attend the enquiry with his witness, if any- Karma Mahato 
sent a letter Ext. M 4 dated the 20th May, 1967 in reply to the Manager’s letter- 
In this letter, he said that there was no question of enquiry when he had attached 
a medical certificate in support of his facts but, if the Manager insisted upon 
holding an enquiry, it should be held after Shrl Awdesh Kumar Singh, the Secre- 
tary of his union, returned from leave. By a letter (Ext- M5) dated the 21st May, 
1967, the Manager informed the workman that the enquiry had been adjourned 
to the 28th May, 1967 Ext- M6 is the workman’s reply in which he stated that 
„ he could get the enquiry made on the 28th May if the union Secretary, Shri 
Awdesh Kumar Singh, came back from leave by that date but, if he did not, he 
would pray for further adjournment. 

6. By a fuither letter (Ext. M7) dated the 15th June, 1967, the Manager 
informed Karma Mahato that the enquiry had been adjourned to the 25th June- 
Ext. M8 dated the 21st June, 1967 Is the workman’s reply He has stated therein 
that Awdesh Kumar Singh was present in the colliery office from the 31st May 
upto the 12th June, 1967 but the enquiry was not fixed on any date during that 
period- It had been fixed now that Awdesh Kumar Singh had gone. He wanted 
to know whether Awdesh Kumar Singh would be allowed to participate in the 
enquiry, and, if he would be so allowed, he prayed for 10 (ten) days time so 
that he might get the Secretary ready for participation in the enquiry. Ext. MB 
is a letter dated the 30th June, 1967- It is a rather long letter written by the 
Manager to Karma Mahato. Among other facts, it has been stated In It that 
Awdesh Kumar Singh reported for duty on the 31st May, 1967 and resigned his 
service on the 10th June, 1967. It was not known to the management that he 
would resign and therefore the enquiry could not be fixed before the date of bis 
resignation- He had been allowed to participate In the enquiry because he was 
In the colliery service but, now that he had gone out of it, he could not be allowed 
to participate in the enquiry. Karma Mahato, however, could take the assistance 
of any other of his co-workers to help him in the enquiry- After giving other 
details the enquiry was fixed on the 9th July. In his letter (Ext. M10), dated 
the 7th June, Karma Mahato stated that he was getting apprehensive because 
an ordinary matter was being made much of and he felt that all efforts were 
directed towards keeping Awdesh Kumar Singh out of the enquiry though he 
thought that Awdesh Kumar Singh would be the proper legal adviser for him in 
the enquiry On the basis of this fact, he prayed for a further adjournment. 
Ext Mil dated the 31st July is another letter by the management to the work- 
man. It has been stated in this letter that Shrl Awdesh Kumar Singh could not 
legally be permitted to be even present during the departmental enquiry — not to 
speak of his participation in the enquiry. The enquiry was being finally posted 
for the 6th August, Ext- M12 dated the 3rd August 1967 is Karma Mahato’s reply 
to this letter. He has stated therein that he wanted Shrl Awdesh Kumar Singh 
to act as his representative. He could not have confidence in the enquiry until 
he had a representative of his choice- Besides. Awdesh Kumar Singh was present 
in the office at the time of the Incident and, therefore, he (Karma Mahato) wanted 
to examine him as a witness also. The name of the enquiry officer had also not 
been disclosed Unless the man selected to make the enauiry is one in whom 
he had confidence, the enquiry could not be satisfactory On these grounds, he 
prayed for further adjournment in this case 

7. It appears that the Manager did not send any further reply and the enquiry 
was held on the 8th August. 1987 bv Shri B. P Sinha, MW1. an emnlovee of & 
different concern. He savs that he hold the enoufrv at the instance of the pro- 
prietor of Ramgar Jharia Oolfierv. Shri Kantilal Parkhnrii. He recorded ihe 
statements of the Manager. Shri S- R. Chatteriee and that of Dr. S N Lahiri. The 
enquiry was ex-parte because Karma Mahato did not appear, On the same date 
the enquiry officer prepared his report Ext- (M13). Ext- M15 is a letter dated the 



1622 


1'HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 23, 1969/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [I'ari II- 


24th August, 1967 whereby Karma Mahato was informed that he had been dis- 
missed from service with immediate eilect. 

8. Documents marked Ext. M 1 to M 15 have been filed on behalf of the manage- 
ment and documents Ext W 1 to W 7 have been filed on behalf of the workman 
at the hearing in this case. The enquiring officer, Shri B- P- Sinha, has alone been 
examined as MW 1 on behalf of the management. Karma Mahato has been exa 
mined as WW 1 and Awdesh Kumar Singh, Branch Secretary of the Ashakuty 
Phularitand Labour Union, WW 2 has been examined on behalf of the workman. 

9. In view' of the arguments oi the parties, the following points may be for- 
mulated for consideration in this case: 

(1) Have the rules of natural justice been followed at the domestic enquiry? 

(ii) Has there been victimisation and unfair labour practice In the matter 
of dismissal of Karma Mahato? 

(ill) Is the concerned workman entitled to any reliel? 

Point (i) 

10. The most serious grievance which Shri B. K. Lath, Advocate, who has 
.appeared on behalf of the concerned workman has raised is that the management 
did not disclose to Karma Mahato the name of Shri B. P Sinha as the man who 
had been deputed to make the enquiry. Shri B, P. Sinha himself said that he gave 
mo notice to the workman that he was the enquiry officer. No other evidence has 
been adduced to show that any such notice was given to him. It must, therefore, 
be treated as admitted that the name of the enquiring officer was not disclosed to 
Karma Mahato before the enquiry proceedings. Shri Lath has referred me to the 
case of Sur Enamel and Stamping Works, Ltd-, and Their workmen reported in 
1963 (II) L. L- J- 367. In that case, Das Gupta J., who has delivered the judge- 
ment of the Supreme Court- has observed that it is not sufficient that the manage- 
ment should only go through a form oi enquiry- That would not satisfy the 
requirements of the industrial law. lie has given certain circumstances which 
must be present before an enquiry can be said to have been properly held. Two 
of these circumstances are (1) that the workman concerned is given a fair op- 
portunity to examine witnesses including himself in his defence if he so wishes 
and (2) that the enquiring officer records his findings with reasons for the same 
in his report There is nothing in that decision to show that the name of the 
enquiring officer should be disclosed to the alleged delinquent before the enquiry 
I am therefore unable to hold that any rule of natural justice can be said to have 
been violated on the ground of non-disclosure of the enquiring officer’s name. 

11. Shri S- S Mukherjee. who has appeared on behalf of the employers, has 
urged that a workman Is not entitled to be represented at an enquiry against him 
by a union official of his own choice. In support of this argument, he has relied 
upon a decision of the Supreme Court in Brooke Bond India (Private) Ltd-. Vs. 
Subba Raman (S) and another, reported in 1961 (II) L. L. J 417 and a decision 
of the Patna High Court in Harinagar Sugar Mills, Ltd., Vs. Slv Saran Sinha and 
another, reported in 1961 (II) L. L, J. 511, In the former decision, Their Lord- 
ships have quoted the observation of the same Court In Kalindi and others Vs. Tata 
Locomotive and Engineering Company Ltd-, [I960 (II) L L. J. 2281 as follows: — 

“A workman against whom an enquiry is being held by the mangement, has 
no right to be represented at such enquiry by a representative of his union, though 
the employer, in his discretion, can and may allow him to be so represented . . . 
and It cannot be said that in any enquiry against a workman natura^ justice 
demands that he should be represented by a representative of his union . 

12- In view of the above principles, it cannot -be said that Karma Mahato was 
entitled to insist upon his representation at the enquiry by Awdesh Kumar Singh 
as a union official. I may, however, observe that according to the evidence of 
Awdesh Kumar Singh, he was in the service Of the colliery from before. He 
proceeded on leave with effect from the 17th May, 1967 and returned from leave 
on the 31st May. He submitted his letter of resignation on the 10th June, 1967 
and left the colliery after full and final settlement on the 13th June, 1967. It is remark- 
able that the enquiry was being postponed before-hand for very short period. It 
was first fixed for the 21st May, and then on the 28th May but, when Awdesh 
Kumar Singh returned from leave on the 31st May, the enquiry was not held on 
-any date between the 1st and the 12th June- This appears to me to show a clear 



.Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 


1623 


attempt, as asserted later by the concerned workman himself, on the part of the 
management to avoid participation of Awdesh Kumar Singh in the enquiry as 
desired by the workman. After Awdesh Kumar Singh left the colliery, the manage- 
ment naturally got a good excuse to keep him out and to prevent the workman 
from being represented by him 

13- Besides, the workman has clearly stated in his letter Ext- M12 dated the 
3rd August, 1967 that he wished to examine Awdesh Kumar Singh as his witness 
also. The management should then have told him that, if he desired, he could 
produce Awdesh Kumar Singh as a defence witness but not as a representative. 
This they did not do- The Impression of Karma Mahato must therefore have 
been that he could not produce Awdesh Kumar Singh either as a representative 
or us a defence witness. He is hardly a literate men and, in my opinion, the 
enquiry against him has not been fair or in consonance with natural justice 

because he was not given intimation of the fact that he could produce Awdesh 

Kumar Singh as a defence witness. 

14. The enquiring officet has also not been very clear about his duty. The 
most important question which he had to decide was whether the medical 
certificate filed by Karma Mahato was correct and whether he remained absent 
irom his duties on account of Illness. Doctor A. K. Mukherjee, who gave the 

certificate to Karma Mahato, appears to have been the colliery doctor of a neigh- 

bouring colliery namely Bokaro Jharla Colliery, P-O- Karmatancl i-e. the same 
post office as that of Ramgar Jharla Colliery. If the management had desired 
to be fair, they could easily have ascertained by an enquiry from that doctor 
whether the certificate given by him to Karma Mahato was correct. The manage- 
ment did not do so- As the enquiry was being held ex-parte, the enquiry officer 
should at least have made an enquiry from the doctor, even by post, whether ms 
\ ertlflcate was correct lie has not even considered In his report that the certi 
fi< ate granted by Doctor Mukherjee might be correct. 

15 In the circumstances mentioned above, I hold that the enquiry was not 
held in accordance with natural justice in this case 


Point (ii) 

1(3. Awdesh Kumar Singh. WW2 has stated that the attitude of the manage- 
ment has been very bad towards members of his union and ' that ““taw 

who became members have been victimised. He has further said that Karma 
Mahato became a member of his union m 1966. He has °eollierv 

Karma Mahato and others filed complaints Ext. W5 and ^ b ^° re c0 * 
manager. Karma Mahato, WW1, has also stated that Exts- W5, W6 and W 7 were 
sent by him under registered covers, one of them being on behalf of his urn 
Thereafter, the management started threatening him with dire consequences 
oeiieve the evidence of these two witnesses on these points and in any case^ tber 
if no evidence to the contrary. The fact that Karma Mahato was found even 
by the colliery doctor 111 on the 6th May lends support to his case that he was 
down with enteric fever with effect from the 7th May. The fact that the ma 1 age 
ment made no enquiry from the doctor whose certificate he filed before instituting 
a departmental enquiry shows that the attitude of the 

adverse to him. The manner in which Awdei Kumar Singh was excluded 
from participation in the enquiry also gives an ^matton to f the absence of 

•extreme punishment of dismissal was meeted out to him, _ o c-moii union 

a few days which might be due to illness- This also leads to the same conclusion 
In view of these circumstances, I hold that there has been victimisation and U.n 
fair labour practice in this case. 


Point (iii) 

17. On the basis of the findings which I given above, I bold that the dismissal 

from the date of his dismissal. This Is my award Let it be submitted to 
.Central Government under section 15 of the Industrial Disputes 

(Sd/-) Kamla Sahai. 
Pt - ® oirUncf Officer, 


fNo, 2/131/67-LRII.] 



1624 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MARCH 28, 1908/CHAITRA 8 , 1890 [Part II- 


Neio Delhi, the 14th March 1908 

S.O. 1030. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers In 
relation to the Pure Dhansar Collieryi Post Office Dhansar, District Dhanbad and 
their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the 11th March, 
1908. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-CUJVf -LABOUR 

COURT, JABALPUR 

Dated February 29, 1968 

Present : 

Sri G. C- Agarwala — Presiding Officer. 

Case Ref. No- CGIT/LC(R)(71)/87 (Jabalpur Tribunal) 

Case Reference No. 2 of 1965 (Dhanbad Tribunal) 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to Pure Dhansar Colliery, P.O. Dhansar, District Phan- 
bad (Bihar). 

Vs. 

Their workmen represented through Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, P.O. and District 
Dhanbad (Bihar). 


Appearances ; 

For employers— 3/ Sri Shiv Kumar Lodha, Partner of the Colliery and Chotelai 
Naroria. 

For workmen — Sri P. D- Sharma, workman concerned- 
Industry: Coal Mine District: Dhanbad (Bihar). 

AWARD 

Rv Notification No. 2/134/64-LR.II dated 23rd December 1964, the following 

^^entrai^Govmmmen^Industrial ^rlbunal^Dhanbad^for ad^dic^on^nd 
where it was traSferred to this Tribunal by Notification No. 8/25/67-LR.II dated 
25th April, 1907: 

Matter of Dispute 

Mitt TiffSS&Srt ’2S SB8ST and ^whether the 
workman is entitled to any relief? 

wmm mm 

DC>ad. Ce FuU heX was lhen "nde?ed on 19th February 1968 at camp Dhanbad 
in presence of both the parties* 

3- The .indited fact. ofthe cm ^ St'S ZF&SSt 

employee of the Colliery, Pure ^coUiery and it was contended during argument 
was the Managing Agent of the C j t wittl effect from 1st July, 1987. 

that the managing agency system has ceased toe Attendance Clerk in the 

ottSta of le.ee dated 28th February 1984 (Ex. E/2) 

under registered cover. 

4. In the application he had mertiojaed *“ ‘ e „ w ” em *"*, < ^rfS„d 

*»£ 5S» Mmh” 19«4 (Ex. E/4) Intimated Sri Sharma that the 




■Sue. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, I968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 


1625 


extension of leave was refused and he should report for duty immediately- Accord- 
in# to Sri Sharma, on receipt of this communication he came back from home and 
reported for duty on 23rd March, 1964. He was not allowed to resume duty on 
which he submitted an application on 24th March 1964. Even so, he was not 
permitted to rejoin duty and therefore he submitted another application (Ex. W/l) 
dated 27th March 1964 making reference to his earlier application dated 24th March 
1964 and praying that he should be allowed to re-join duty- He sent another 
application dated 4th April 1964 enclosing therewith a medical certificate of the 
Doctor (Ex. W/5) for his illness for the period 3rd March, 1964 to 20th March. 1964 
On the same date management sent a communication (Ex. E/6) requiring him to 
explain the discrepancy that the medical ;certificate covers the period from 3rd 
March 1964 to 20th March 1964, whereas he had applied for leave on ground of 
illness from 28th February 1964. Sri Sharma thereupon sent a reply on 6th April 
1964 (Ex. W/3) stating that In the beginning he was under the treatment of a vaid 
and then switched over to the treatment of Doctor thereby attempting to explain 
the absence of a medical certificate anterior to 3rd March. 1964. Sri Sharma was 
thereafter directed to work at the bungalow of the Managing Agent in the Accounts 
Section and It is an admitted case that from 7th April 1964 to 19th April 1964 he 
continued to work at the office of the Managing Agent- Meanwhile, the manage- 
ment was not satisfied with the explanation rendered by Sri Sharma and after 
communication dated 7th April, 1964 (Ex- E/7) requiring him to report for duty In 
the Accounts Section at the bungalow of the Managing Agent, sent another com- 
munication dated 13th April, 1964 requiring an explanation for the contradictory 
explanation within 24 hours and threatening disciplinary action. Sri Sharma, sent 
a reply to this communication on 14th April, 1964 (Ex. W/5) explaining the dis 
crepancy. The management, however, took no further disciplinary proceedings and 
Sri Sharma continued to work In the Accounts Section upto 19th April. According 
to him he was stopped from working from 20th April. 1964, whereas according to 
the management, he himself stopped coming- A dispute was then raised on behalf 
of Sri Sharma by the Union which in due course resulted in this reference. 


5 The first question to be considered is whether Sri Sharma did in fact report 
lor duty or not on 23rd or 24th March, 1964. According to the management, 
Sri Sharma did not report on 23rd March but came to the bungalow of the 
Managing Agent In the evening when he behaved Insolently and was directed 
to report to the colliery office on 27th which he did not do. There Is abundant 
material to show that Sri Sharma did in fact appear and reported for duty- 
on 23rd March. Besides his own testimony on the point, the applications which 
he gave on 27th March, 1964 wherein he maintained that he had been in station 
in the last four or five days and had .applied on 24-3-64 to be permitted to re- 
sume duty corroborates him on the point. No communication was sent by 
the management controverting this allegation of Sri Sharma. The Head 
who appeared for the management, Sri Clarence Edverd Malvern (E- W- 1) ad 
no knowledge as to what transpired between Sri Sharma and the Managing 
Agent and the managing agent himself has not come m evidence to controvert the 
allegation^ ft is miiifest that he was not permitted to work tffljtomaHy asked to 
work at the bungalow of the Managing Agent in the Accounts on o nJ4 64joy 
means of Ex. E/7. The stand taken by the management that Sri Sharma himself did 
not rcDort at the Colliery Office from 27-3-64 onwards is neither supported by 
anv circumstance nor by any evidence whatsoever, Probably, the manage- 
ment thought that since they had not closed the question of reconciliation of the 
discrepancy In the medical certificate f6r the period 28-2-64 to 3-3-1964 they cou d 
prevent him from resuming duty. They, however, allowed him to resume duty 
with effect from 8-4-64 In the Accounts Section at the bungalow of the Managing 
Agent The charge-sheet dated 13-4-64 (Ex. W. 4) was not pursued further and 
therefore, It is manifest that the management closed the chapter al ?f flllo ^*f 
Mm to resume duty but only with effect from .8-4-04 - Even no disciplinary ^ pro- 
ceedings were commenced after the charge-sheet dated 13-3-64 and the ex 
planatlon which Sri Sharma gave on 14-4-64 (Ex, W/5)- 


fl The next question is whether from 20-4-64, Sri Sharma was stopped from 
working by the Managing Agent or he himself stopped coming- It Is inconcei- 
vable that an employee who has been writing and r^resentlng over and over 
aC ain should have himself stopped coming and rendering duty ror no res 

whatsoever. According to Sri Sharma, the f g ® nt ^f” te l h ^ as t0 

a letter agreeing to accept a temporary appointment to which he was nor 
agrelablefnd at which hewas asked not to com* » to work TMs sworn testi- 
mony of Sri Sharma remained unassailed. The Head Clerk (K. w. l) 



1626 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Pvri II 


Malvern admitted that he has no knowledge about it. He, however, admitted 
that the Accounts Office was maintained at the bungalow of the Managing Agent 
and all employees both working at the bungalow of the Managing Agent ancl 
the Colliery were employees ol the management and one could be transferred 
from one place to another. The best person to rebut this evidence of Sri 
Sharma would have been the Managing Agent himself who has not come hi 
evidence. The irresistible conclusion is that Sri Sharma was prevented deliber- 
ately from working and was denied employment with effect from 20-4-64 became 
he refused to agree to a fresh and temporary appointment as stated by him 


7- On behalf of the mangement, it was contended that by hiB unauthorised 
absence beyond the 2nd March, 1964 his subsequent leave having not been sanc- 
tioned he lost his lien to appointment and reliance was placed on Clause 10(e) 
of the Model Standing Orders for Coal Mine Industry, there being no certified 
Standing Orders for this particular colliery. Under Clause 10(e), “If a work- 
man remains absent beyond the period of leave originally granted or subsequentlv 
extended, he shall lose lien on his appointment unless he (a) returns within ten 
days of expiry of his leave, and (b) explains to the satisfaction of the manager 
his inability to return on the expiry of his leave. In case the workman loses 
his lien on the appointment, he shall be entitled to be kept on the Badli 

list’: - ’ 


8. Further under Clause 10(g)' a workman over-staying sanctioned leave 
-without reasonable cause will render himself liable for disciplinary action 
The management had not taken this stand that Sri Sharma had lost his lien 
under Cl. 10(e) and therefore he cannot be taken back. On the other hand, 
their stand was that he did not himself turn up and reported for duty even 
Though asked to join at Colliery Office until he joined on 8th April in the Ac- 
counts Office of the Managing Agent. This is a new. stand which was built up 
in the course of arguments. When the management did not take ary action and 
permitted him to rejoin duty on 8th April, at the bungalow of the Managing 
Agent where he admittedly continued to work upto 19th April, therq is no ques- 
tion of his losing the lien under this clause of tne Model Standing Orders. The 
Supreme Court case of National Engineering Co. Ltd., Vs. Hanuman, Civil Appeal 
No, 469 of 107 dated 25-7-1967, reported in 1967 M. F. J. Vol. II, page 152, is 
clearly distinguishable and has no application, The charge-sheet dated 13-4-67 
was also not for over-staying leave but he was required to explain the discre- 
pancy proceedings which they could take under Cl. 10(g) of the Model Standing 
Orders were not proceeded further and was obviously dropped. Consequently, 
there is no merit in the contention of the management. 


Decision 

The result is that it must be held that Sri Sharma was denied employment 
from 24th March, 1964 to 8th April, 1964 unjustifiably and again from 2Qth 
April 1964 onwards- He is entitled to his wages from 24th March, 1964 to 7th 
April 1964 and again from 20th April, 1964 and shall be reinstated with back 
wages and continuity of service. The Union shall further be entitled to 
Rs 100/- as costs from the management. 


(Sd-) G- C- Agarwala. 

Presiding Offim. 
29-2-08 

[No 2/134/64-LRU ] 


S O 1031. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Bhadra Colliery (Prop. The Rewa Mining Company Limited), 
Post Office Kotma, District Shahdol (Madhya Pradesh) and their workmen, which 
was recelvtd by the Central Government on the 11th March, 1968. 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1800 1627 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-CUM-LABOUR COURT, 

JABALPUR 
Dated March 1, 1968 

Present- 

Sri G C. Agarwala— Presiding Officer. 

Casf No. CGIT/LC(R)(2) of 1968 

F arties : 

Employers in relation to— 

M/s. Bhadra Colliery (Prop. The Rewa Mining Company Ltd,), P.O. Kotina, 
Distt. Shahdol (M.P.). 

Vs. 

Their workmen represented through the Secretary, Colliery May,door Union 
C/o. B N. Singh, P O. Kotma, District Shahdol (IVi.P.). 

Appearances; 

For employers — None. 

For workmen — None. 

Industry- Coal Mine District: Shahdol (IIP) 


AWARD 

By Notification No. 5/84/67/LR-N dated 6th January, 1968/16, Pausa 1889, the 
following matter of dispute as stated in the schedule to the order of reference 
was referred to this Tribunal for adjudication: 

Matter 0/ Dispute 

Whether the action of the management of M/s. Bhadra Colliery, Kotma, 
in terminating the services of Shri Budhsen s/o Munda, Miner 
through their letter dated 14th August, 1967 is justified? If not to 
what relief is the workman entitled? 

2. The order of reference was received by this Tribunal on 16-1-1968 Under 
Rule 10B of Ihe Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules, the parties were supposed 
to have filed their statements of claim within two weeks of the date of the receipt 
of the order of reference. As none was received within two weeks, as a metier 
of abundant caution notice was issued by this Tribunal on 17th February, 1968 
giving the parties a further' chance to file their statements of claim by or before 
1st March, 1968. Inspite of service of notice neither party has appeared nor 
has sent any statement of claim. It appears that the parties arc not interested 
in the dispute. Since, however, an award has to be recorded and there is no 
statement of claim from cither side this Tribunal has fo depend on the failure 
report appended with the order of reference On perusal of the failure report 
it apoears that the workman concerned, Sri Budhsen, was granted leave from 
3rd Julv, 1967 to 18th July, 1°67. He was. however, recalled to work on 5th 
July. 1967 and continued to work upto 15th July, 1967. 16th July, 1967 was a 
Sunday, a day of weekly rest, and he availed of the earlier sanctioned leave 
from i7th July When he appeared for work on 2nd August, 1967 he was denied 
work. The management before the Conciliation Officer simply intimated that 
the question of termination of service of Sri Budhsen was under enquiry. The 
Union, however, intimated the Conciliation Officer that there was no question 
of enauirv and services of Sri Budhsen had been terminated by a letter dated 
14th August, 1967 on the ground that he had been absenting .without leave. 
This stand of the management was unjustified inasmuch as the workman, Sri 
Budhsen. had proceeded on unavailed leave after he had been recalled for duty 
on the originally sanctioned leave for the oeriod 3rd May to 18th July, 1967. 
There being no case of the management before the Conciliation Officer nor 
before this Tribunal it must be held on the basis of the conciliation report that 
the termination of service of Sri Budhsen was unjustified. 

DECISION : 

Sri Budhsen. workman concerned, shall be reinstated and shall be entitled to 
back wages with continuity of service. No order for costs. 

(Sd.) G. C Agarwala. 

1-3-1968. 

Presiding Officer. 

[No. 5/84/67-LRII.l 



i6a8- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 25, 1968/CHATTRA 8, 1890 [Part II- 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 13th March 1968 

S.O. 1082. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Chorawari 
and Hirdagarh Collieries Post Officer Junnordeo, District Chhindwara (Madhya 
Pradesh) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Jabalpur, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

whether the management of the Ghorawari and Hidragarh Collieries, Post 
Office Junnordeo District Chhindwara (Madhya Pradesh) was justi- 
fied in dismissing Shri Sheodhar, Writer, from the 1st May, 1 96 1 /? If 
not, to what relief is he entitled? 

[No. 5/4/68-LRH.j 

S.O. 1033v— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Mathani Colliery of Messrs 
Equitable Coal Company Limited, Post Office Dlshergarh, District Burdwan and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed. 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the dismissal of Shri Bljoyhari Chatterjee, Provident Fund Clerk, by 
the management of Methani Colliery with effect from the 10th November, 1967 was 
justified? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled? 

[No. F. 6/12/6&(LRII).j 


S.O. 1034. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Lakurka Colliery of Messrs 
"Lakurka Coal Company Limited, Post Office Katrasagrh, District Dhanbad and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub section 
O) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the industrial Tri- 
bunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


Schedule 

Whether the management of Lakurka Colliery of Messrs Lakurka Coal 
Company Limited, Post Office Katrasgarh, District Dhanbad was justi- 
fied In refusing the post of Prop. Mistry to Shri Habib Mian with 
effect from the 4th May, 1967? If not, to what relief is the workman 
entitled?, „ _ _ __ , 

[No. F. 2/157/07-LRH.] 


New Delhi , the 14th March 1968 

S.O. 1035.— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Bon-Jamihari Colliery, 
Post Office, Salanpur, District Burdwan and their workmen In respect of the mat 
ters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 



KUM i /u 4ii, a 9, 1890 




And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefeore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Gov- 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said 
Act- 


Schedule 

(1) Whether the retrenchment of Sarvashri Mathan Singh and Kailash 

Singh, Surface Pump Khalasis by the management of Bon-Jamihari 
Colliery, Post Office Salanpur, District Burdwan, with effect from the 
20th December, 1907 was justified? 

(2) If not, to what relief are the workmen concerned entitled? 

[No, F. 8/14/68-LRIL] 


CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 14th March 1968 

S.O. 1036. — In the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, 
'Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No- S-O, 
-4175, dated the 18th November, 1967 published at page 4450 of the Gazette of India, 
Part II, Section 3, sub-section (il), dated the 2nd December, 1967, 

in line 3 of the Schedule, for “in transferring Sarvashri Gope and 
Sukdeo Dusadh, Prop. Mazdoors’’ read “in transferring Sarvashri, 
Teklal Gope Prop. Mazdoor and Sukdeo Dusadh, Prop. Mislry.” 

[No. 2/122/67-LNII.] 

BALWANT SINGH, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 11 th March 1968 

S.O. 1037. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 1 
•of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Govern- 

ment hereby appoints the 17th day of March, 1968, as the date on which the 
■provisions of Chapter IV (except section 44 and 45 which have already been 
"brought into force) and Chapters V and VI [except sub-section (1) of section 
76 and section 77, 78, 79 and 81 which have already been brought into force] 
■of the said Act shall come into force in the. following areas In the State of Andhra 
Pradesh, namely: — 

The area situated within the Municipal Limits of Tirupati and adjoining 
(Revenue village of 32 Konka-Chcnnaiah Gunta and 22 Daminedu whose bound- 
aries are specified as under; — 

North .— 1 Tirumalai Hills Reserve Forest; 39 Thambuvanigunta; 31 Korla- 
gunta; 27 Akkarampalle; 26 Upparapaliem. 

East. — 21 Thukkivakkam; 35 Koravenlgunta; 36 Tiruchanur. 

South. — 36 Tiruchanur; 49 Avilala. 

West. — 29 Tirupati Revenue village. 


[No. F. 13(5)/68-HI.] 

S.O. 1038. — In pursuance of section 11 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby accepts the resignation of 
Dr. (Mrs ) Suborna Mitra from her membership of the Medical Benefit Council 
■constituted under the said Act. 


[No. F. 3/2/68-HI.J 



I<3ar 1 UK. GAr^llJ^UF I IMA: MAR.G , , , 1 /L AiJ, . u, i ^ 


New Delhi, the 12th March 1968 

S.O. 1039. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73P of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government, having regard to 
the location of the factories in implemented areas, hereby exempts the depots at 
Tondiarpet, Adyar, Ayanavaram, Tiruchirapalli (Tnchy) and Coimbatore, belonging 
to the Madras State Transport Department, from the payment of the employer’s 
special contribution leviable under chapter VA of the said Act for a further period 
of one year with effect from the 24th March, 1968. 

[No. F. 6(23)/6B-HI.J 


S.O. 1040. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs, Holla and sons, Mechanical and Automobile Engineers, Opposite Govern- 
ment College, Mangalore-1, have agreed that the provisions of the Employees' Provi- 
dent Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establish- 
ment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act, to the saffl establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 31st day of 
January, 1968. 

[No. 8/20/G8/PF. II-] 


S.O. 1041. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Builows India Private Limited. Great-Social Building, Sir P. M. Rood, 
Bombay-1, have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 
1052 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act, to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 30th day of 
November, 1967. 

[No. 8/30/68/PF-I1.1 


S.O. 1042.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Escal India Private Limited, P. 34, C.I.T. Road, Calcutta-14, have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (.19 Of 1952), should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the 'said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act, to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come 
December, 1967' 


into force on the 3 1st day of 
[No. 8/29/68/PF-IL] 


S.O. 1043.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Inland Trading Company. P-14, Mission Row Extension Calcutta have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident lands Act, 115„ 09 of 
1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act, to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 29th day of 


February, 1968. 


[No. 8/38/68/PF-IH 



Stc. Jflffl The GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23. 1968/CHAITRA "3. 1890 


1631 


S.O, 1914. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
The Ashok Leyland Employees’ Cooperative Bank Limited, 29.9, T. H, Road, 
Madras-21, have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act, to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 29th day of 
February, 1968. 

[No. 8/42/68 /FF-II.J 


S.O. 1945.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employe! 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Udipi Sri Krishna Cafe, Gandhi Chow, Tenali, Guntur District (A.P.), have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act, to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 31st day of 
January, j.968- 

[No. 8/20/ 68/PF-II.] 


S.O. 1946. — Whereas It appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees In relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs, G. S. Murti, Ch. Agastayya and Company, 20/54, Old Bank Lane, Visakha- 
patnam (A-P.) have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident. Funds 
Act 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of ihe said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act, to the said establishment- 


This notification shall be deemed to have come 
January, 1968- 


into force on the 31st day of 
[No. 8/39/08/PF-II.] 


S.O. 1047.— Whereas the Central Government Is satisfied that the employees of 
the under-mentioned factories, belonging to the Central Government In the Minis- 
try of Works Housing and Supply, (Department of Works and Housing) and plac- 
ed under the control of the Centra) Public Works Department, are otherwise in 
receipt of benefits substantially similar to the benefits provided under the Em- 
ployees’ State Insurance Act, '1948 (34 of 1948); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Em- 
nloveps’ St de Imurance Act, 1948, the Central Government hereby exempts the 
said factories alter consultation with the Corporation, from all the provisions o 
the said Act for a further period of one year with effect from the 15th Marc , 
1908, namely:— ^ „ , . 

1. The Electric Fans, Motors and other Appliances Repairs Shop, Cen ral 

Public Works Department, New Delhi. 

2. The Horticulture Tools and Implements Repairs Shop, New Delhi. 

3. The Central Public Works Department Auto and General Workshop and 

Foundry, American Warehouse, Factory Road, New Delhi, 

4. Desert Coolers Workshop, Vldyut Bhawan, New Delhi. 

5. Mechanical and Transport Workshop, Dum Dum. 8(21)|a8 . m i 


New Delhi, the 13 th March 1968 

S.O. 1048. Whereas it , = to p^S’STSS&SSJSrSSS’Z 

(India) 32, Mill and Godown Area, Tata 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 29, 1968/CHAITRA 9, 1890 [Fart II- 


Nagar, Jamshedpur (Bihar) have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ 
Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment with effect from the 31st March 1988, 

[No. 8/40/68/PF-II.] 


S.O. 1049.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
13 of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Sarvashri A U, Chavda and J- L. Ranpura to be Inspectors 
for the whole of the State of Gujarat for the purposes of the said Act and of any 
Scheme framed thereunder, in relation to any establishment belonging to, or under 
the control of, the Central Government or in relation to any establishment con- 
nected with a railway company, a major port, a mine or an oil field or a controlled 
Industry. 

[No. 20(62) /64-PF.I.] 


S.O. 1050.— In pursuance of clause (a) of sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 4 
of the Employees’ Provident Funds Scheme, 1952, the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Special Secretary to the Government of Andhra Pradesh, Home 
(Labour) Department, as the Chairman of the Regional Committee for the State 
of Andhra Pradesh and makes the following amendment In the notification of the 
Government of India in the late Department of Social Security No. S.O 1294, 
dated the 8th April, 1965, namely: — 


In the said notification against Serial No. 1, for the existing entry in the 1st 
column, the following entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

“The Special Secretary to the Government of Andhra Pradesh, Home 
(Labour) Department, Hyderabad ” 


[No. 12/1/88-PF II.l 


New Delhi, the 14th March 1968 


S.O. 1051. Whereas it. appears to the Central Government that the employer 

and the majority of employees In relation to the establishment known as Messrs. 
Prashanth. Ashok Road, Tumkur have agreed that the provisions of the Em- 
ployees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 


Now therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
f'^tlon 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 31st day 


of January, 1968. 


[No. 8/27/68/PF-II.] 


S.O. 1052.- — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees In relation to the establishment known as 
The Bihar State Agro-Industries Development Corporation Limited, Boring Canal 
Road Patna have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now therefbre, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said Establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come 
of July, 1967. 


into force on the 31st day 
[No. 8/209/67/PF-II.] 


S.O. 1053. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the empl y 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment kno^m i as 
Messrs. Deolai Gliding Club, Gandhi Nagar, Nasik-6 have agreed lhat the provi- 
sions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be ma 
applicable to the said establishment; 



Sufi. 5(Ji)3 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 25, 1968/CHAITRA 5, 1890 


1^33 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 31st day of 
July, 1966, 

[No. 8 ( 52)/66-PF“II. J 

S.O. 1054.—' Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. M. Vaman Nayak and Sons, K. S. Rao Road, Mangalore-1 have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1962 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall come into force on the 31st day of March, 1968. 

[No. 8/49/08-PF.II.l 

S.O. 1055. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the Employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Feroz Trading Company, Tannery Ambur, North Arcot District, Madras 
State have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall come into force on the 31st day of March, 1968. 

[No. 8/50/68/PF-IL] 

S.O. 1056. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Automae (Madras) Private Limited, 17, Tunkur Road, Bangalore-22, have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1882 (19 of 
1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) o-f 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 29th day 
of February, 1968. 

[No. 8/36/68/PF-IL] 


S.O. 1857, — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Malai Murasu Group, 2 — 16, Mount Road, Madras-2 have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should! 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
aection 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be 
of February, 1988. 


deemed to have come into force on the 29th day 

[No. 8/36/88/PF-II. ] 


8.0. 1058. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Vivekam and Company, Agents and General Merchants, 90-A/l, South Raja 
Street, Tuticorin-1, have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds Act 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall come into force on the 31st March, 1968. 


[No. 8/44/08- PF-II.] 



1634 T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 25, I968/CHATTRA S, 1890 [Pa*t II- 


S.O. 1059.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Excel Phospho-Chem, Hindustan Antibiotics Compound, Pimpri, Poona-18 
(Maharashtra State) have agreed that the provisions of the Employees' Provident 
Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), ahould be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
•ection 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 31st day of 
October 1987. 

[No. 8 ( 227 ) /67 -PF-IL] 

S.O. 1060.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby appoints Shri P. V. Subramaniam to be. an Inspector for the 
whole of the State of Madras for the purposes of the said Act und of any Scheme 
framed thereunder in relation to any establishment belonging to, or under the 
control of, the Central Government or in relation to any establishment connect- 
ed with a railway company, a major port, a mine or an oil-fleld or a controlled 
industry, 


[No. F. 20(9)/68PF.I.] 


New Delhi, the 18 th March 1968 

SO. 1061 — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section I 
of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government 
hereby appoints the 24th day of March. 1968 as the date on which the provisions 
of Chapter IV (except sections 44 and 45 which have already been brought into 
force) and Chapters V and VI (except sub-section (1) of section 76 and sections 77 
78 79 and 81 which have already been brought Into force) of the said Act shall 
come into force in the following area in the State of Mysore, namely . 

Area situated within the Municipal limits of Harihar Town. 

[No. F. 13(7)/68-HI.] 

sn I0fl2— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 1 
of ttie* Employees’ 6 SUiteInsurfflKe Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government 
wlhv aonoints the 24th day of March, 1968 as the date on which the provisions 
iPhLiw TV fexceot sections 44 and 45 which have already been brought into 
fmS and Chapters V and VI (except sub-section .(1) of action 76 and. sections 77 
78 79 and 81 which have already been brought into force) of the said Act shal 
coine into force in the following areas in the State of Kerala, namely:- 

iirrvu revenue villaKes of Perunad, Kulasckharapuram, 

The Kristoapuram Thazhava, Siyoor, Mynagapally. ThevalaKtora. 
STS' Kamnagapally In the Karunagappally Taluk In the 

Quilon District.’’ 

[No. F, l3(U)/68-HI.] 

S.O. 1063 . — In exercise of the powers conferred ^b-sectton^W of wationl 

of- the Employees’ State Insuranc^Act^l948 g (3^ s ^ ^ ^ which the provisions 

hereby appoints the ilth d y ’ ' 45 wh ich have already been brought into 

I a The revenue village of Thlruvoilam in the Trivandrum 
The area comprising the revenue vw 
Taluk in the Trivandrum District- 

[No. F. 13(8)/68-HI.] 

. * cowers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 

S.O. 1064.— In exercise of the powers conini u y the Centra i Government 

I of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 9 8 <34 of ), Wch the p rovis ons 

■»" be “ brou2ht u, ‘° 



Sec, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1908/CHAITRA 3, 1890 


force) and Chapters V and VI (except sub-section (1) o f section 76 and sections 77, 
78, 79 and 81 which have already been brought into force) of the said Act shall 
come into force in the following areas in the State of Orissa, namely: — - 

Areas comprising the revenue villages of Kansbahal, Chungimati, Dholua 
and Panposh, Police Station Rajgangpur in the District of Sundergarh. 

[No. F. 13(13)/68-HI.] 

S.O. 1065.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer and 
the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Kudianavala Associates, Mackinnon Mackenzie Building, Ballard Estate, Bombay-1 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act. 1952 (10 
of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall come into force on the 31st March, 1968. 

[No. F. 8/45/68-PF.1I.] 

S.O. 1066.-— In exercise of the powers conferred by the first proviso to section 
6 of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central Govern- 
ment, after making necessary enquiry, hereby specified that in its application to 
M/s Dolton Agencies 2 and 3 Arcot Road, Vadapalani, Madras-26, with effect 
from the 3lst March, 1068, section 6 of the said Act shall be subject to the modi- 
fication that for fhe words ‘six and a quarter per cent’, the words * eight per cent 
shall be substituted. 

INo. F. 8/21/6B-PF.II.] 


S.O. 1067.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer and 
-the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Holton Agencies % and 3, Arcot Hoad, Vadapalani, Madras-26, have agreed that th 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) I of section 
1 of the said Act, the Contral Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall come into force on the 31st day °* Ma * ch ’ /PF . n ] 


s (I lOBR— Whereas It appears to the Central Government that the employer and 

Employees' 'provident Funds Art, 1952 (» o. 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment, 

, JS; “arts « 

said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into force on the 29th day o 
■February, 1068. [Nq f . 8/3 7/68/PF-IL] 

DALJIT SINGH, Under Sccy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 12th March. 1968 

S.O. lO 60 /PWA/Sec, 7 ( 2 )(e).--In exercise of E Act *1936 

-sub-section (2) of section 7, read p rifles ' Chief Labour Commissioner 

(4 of 1936), the Central Government hereby Eductions in respect of the 

'pSvlSd employer In relation to railways, «lr transport 



1636 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 25, 1960/CHAITRA 8, 1890 [Part II— 


services, mines and oil-fields, and imposes the following conditions under section 11 
of the said Act, subject to which such deductions shall be made, namely: — 

(I) that no deduction shall be made from the wages of the employed person 
unless he has communicated in writing his acceptance to the deduction, 
such acceptance being given once generally and not necessarily on each 
occasion a deduction is made; 

(ii) that no deduction shall [subject to the outer limit of deductions laid down, 
in section 7(3) of the Act] exceed — 

(a) 25 per cent of the wages of an employed person in the case of workers 
who avail of facilities of full meals in the canteen, and 

(b) 10 per cent of the wages of an employed person in the case of workers 

who do not avail of the facilities of full meals in the canteen, 


for any wage period. 


[No. 536/7/64-Fac. I.], 


3.0. 1070 PWA/See. 15(1) ATS/68.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (1) of section 15, read with section 24, of the Payment of Wages Act, 193ft 
(4 of 1936), the Central Government hereby appoints every officer appointed by 
the Governments of the States of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Kerala, 
Madhya Pradesh, Madras, Maharashtra, Mysore, Orissa Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar 
Pradesh, West Bengal, Nagaland and Haryana and the Union territories of Delhi, 
Manipur, Tripura, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and the Laccadive, Minicoy 
and Amindivi Islands, Dadra amd Nagar Haveli, Goa, Daman and Diu, 
Pondicherry and Chandigarh, under the said sub-section ( 1 ) of section 
15, in respect of any specified area within the said States or Union territories, to 
be the authority to hear and decide all claims arising out of deductions from the 
wa,ges, or delay in payment of the wages, of persons employed or paid within 
such area, including all matters incidental to such claims, in air transport services. 

[No. F. 638/6/66-Fac.I.] 
J. D- TEWARI. Under Secy- 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 12 th March 1968 

3.0 1071,- -The following draft of a scheme further to amend the Calcutta Un- 
registered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1957, which the 
Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (1) of section 4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948. 
(9 of 1948), is published as required by the said sub-section for the information of 
all persons likely to be affected thereby; and notice is hereby given that the said 
draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 11th April, 1968. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with, 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken Into considera- 
tion by the Central Government. 


Draft Scheme 

1. This Scheme may be called the Calcutta Unregistered Dock Workers (Regula- 
tion of Employment) Amendment Scheme, 1908- 

2. In the Calcutta Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) 
Scheme, 1957, after clause 14, the following new clause shall be inserted; — 

“14-A. Special provision in respect of workers involved in criminal charges : 

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Scheme— 

(I) A worker arrested or detained by the police on a criminal charge (herein- 
after referred to as the 'charge') for a period exceeding 48 hours shall 
be deemed to have been suspended by an order of the Deputy Chairman 
with effect from the date of detention and shall remain under suspen- 
sion until further orders- In cases of arrest or detention for a period 
not exceeding 48 hours the worker may be placed under suspension if 
the Deputy Chairman thinks fit and proper. 



-Sec. 5(il)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 1637 


(ii) II the worker is released on bail the question whether the worker should 
be allowed to resume duty shall be considered by the Deputy Chairman. 
While permission to resume duty may be granted where the office is 
a trivial or technical one, no such permission shall be granted if there 
is a serious charge particularly Involving moral turpitude, and the 
decision of the Deputy Chairman shall be final. 

(ill) In every such case the Administrative Body shall also ascertain whether 
the charge relates to hjs work or position as a dock wlrker, If the 
worker appears to be vnma-facie guilty of misconduct or negligence of 
duty he should also be proceeded with in accordance with the provi- 
sions of the scheme, and such proceedings may ordinarily bo under- 
taken and continued without waiting for the outcome of the Criminal 
case- 

(iv) In cases where the charge does not relate to the conduct of the worker as 
a dock worker, no decision shall be taken till the decision of the 
criminal court is known. As soon as the decision of the court is known, 
it shall be communicated to the Deputy Chairman for the issue of 
orders as to how the worker is to be dealt with. 

(v) If the worker is discharged or honourably acquitted by the Court he shall 

ordinarily be allowed to resume duty, the period under suspension 
being treated as a period on duty. 

(vi) If the worker is convicted of a charge which is considered to be of such 

a nature as to render his further continuance as a dock worker un- 
desirable, the Deputy Chairman may on taking into account the facts 
and circumstances of the case direct the removal of the name of the 
worker from the Register- In any other case, the Deputy Chairman 
may pass such orders as he thinks lit and proper. 

[No- 53/22/67-Fac. II.] 

S-O. 1072. — The following draft of a scheme further to amend the Bombay Dock 
Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1956, which the Central Government 
proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 4 
of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948), is published 
as required by the said sub-section for the information of all persons likely to be 
affected thereby; and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into 
consideration on or after the 11th April, 1968. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken into considera- 
tion by the Central Government. 


Draft Scheme 

1. This Scheme may be called the Bombay Dock Workers (Regula- 
tion of Employment) Amendment Scheme, 1968. 

2. In the Bombay Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1956 
after clause 44, the following new clause shall be inserted: — 

"44-A. Special provision in respect of workers involved in criminal charges : 

Notwithstanding anything contained In the Scheme — 

(i) A worker arrested or detained by the police on a criminal charge (herein- 

after referred to as the 'charge’) for a period exceeding 48 hours shall 
be deemed to have been suspended by an order of the Deputy Chairman 
with effect from the date of detention and shall remain under suspen- 
sion until further orders, In cases of arrest or detention for a period 
not exceeding 48 hours the worker may be placed under suspension if 
the Deputy Chairman thinks fit and proper. 

(ii) If the worker is released on bail the question whether the worker should 

be allowed to resume duty shall be considered by the Deputy Chairman. 
While permission to resume duty may be granted where the offence is 
a trivial or technical one, no such permission shall be granted If there 
Is a serious charge particularly involving moral turpitude, and the 
decision of the Deputy Chairman shall be final. 

(lit) In every such case the Administrative Body shall also ascertain whether 
the charge relates to his work or position as a dock worker. If the 
worker appears to be prlma-farfe guilty of misconduct or negligence of 



3638 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH £3, 1968/CHAITRA 8 , 1890 [Fait II- 


duty he should also be proceeded with in accordance with the provi- 
sions of the scheme, unci such proceedings may ordinarily be under- 
taken and continued without waiting for the outcome of the Criminal 

case- 

(lv) In cases where the charge does not relate to the conduct of the worker as 
a dock worker, no decision shall be taken till the decision of the 
criminal court is known. As soon as the decision of the court is known, 
it shall be communicated to the Deputy Chairman for the issue of 
orders as to how the worker is to be dealt with. 

(v) If the worker is discharged or honourably acquitted by the Court he shall 
ordinarily be allowed to resume duty, the period under suspension 
being treated as a period on duty. 

(vi) If the worker is convicted of a charge which is considered to be of such 
a nature as to render his further continuance as a dock worker un- 
desirable, the Deputy Chairman may on taking into account the facts 
qjid circumstances of the case direct the removal of the name of the 
worker from the Register- In any other case, the Deputy Chairman 
may pass such orders as he thinks fit and proper. 

[No. 53/22/67-Fac- II.] 


8 O. 1073- — The following draft of a scheme further to amend the Bombay Un- 
registered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1957, which the 
Central Government proposes to' make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (1) of section 4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act. 1948 
(9 of 1948), Is published as required by the said sub-section for the Information of 
all persons likely to be affected thereby: and notice is hereby given that the said 
draft will be taken Into consideration on or after the 11th April, 1968- 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken into considera- 
tion by the Central Government. 


Draft Scheme 

1. This Scheme may be called the Bombay Unregistered Dock Workers (Regula- 
tion of Employment) Amendment Scheme. 1968. 

2 In the Bombay Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation (^Employment) Scheme. 
1957, ’ after clause 14, the following new clause shall be inserted: — 

“14-A. Special provision in respect of workers involved in criminal charges -. 

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Scheme 

m A wnrker arrested or detained by the police on a criminal charge (hereln- 
( > after retired to as the 'charge') for a period exceeding 48 hours shaU 
be deemed to have been suspended by an order of the Deputy Chairman 
with effect from the date of detention and shall remain under suspen- 
sion until further orders. In cases of arrest or detention for a Period 
not exceeding 48 hours the worker may be placed under suspension 
the Deputy Chairman thinks fit and proper. 

a^riviaf m^^echnicai^ne^no^^suchHperrnissfon^hall^b^^ranfed if there 
particularly Involving moral turpitude, and the 
decision of the Deputy Chairman shall he final. 

. Administrative Body shall also ascertain whether 

(Hi) In every such case the ^™J r 3 “ at 0 “ e p ^ ti on as a dock worker. If the 

(lv) In cases where the charge does till^he °derfsion° r of the 

a dock worker, no decision shall ^ be taken mi ™ cQurt is 

nSteTommuXated to°the Deputy Chairman for the issue of 
orders as to how the worker is to be dealt with. . 



SftC. 8(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 25, 1968/CHAITRA 5. 1890 


i6& 


(v) If the worker is discharged or honourably acquitted by the Court he shall 
ordinarily be allowed to resume duty, the period under suspension 
being treated a» a period on duty. 

(▼i) It the worker Is convicted of a charge which Is considered to be of such 
a nature as to render his further continuance as a dock worker un- 
desirable, the Deputy Chairman may on taking into account the facts 
and circumstances of the case direct the removal of the name of the 
worker from the Register- In any other case, the Deputy Chairman 
may pass such orders as he thinks fit and proper. 

[No. 53/22/67-Fac- II.) 


S.O. 1874. — The following draft of a scheme further to amend the Vizagapatam 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1959, which the Central Gov- 
ernment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (1) 
of section 4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948), 
ia published as required by the said sub-section for the Information of all person# 
likely to be affected thereby; and notice is hereby given that the said draft will 
be taken into consideration on or after the 11th April, 1968. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken into considera- 
tion by the Central Government, 

Draff Scheme 

1. This Scheme may be called the Vizagapatam Dock Workers (Regulation of 
Employment) Amendment Scheme, 1968- 

* 2. In the Vizagapatam Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme. 1958 
after clause 44, the following new clause shall be inserted: — 

“44-A. Special provision in respect of workers involved in criminal charges: 


Notwithstanding anything contained in the Scheme — 

(i) A worker arrested or detained hy the police on a criminal charge (herein- 
after referred to as the ‘charge’) for a period exceeding 48 hours shall 
be deemed to have been suspended by an order of the Deputy Chairman 
with effect from the date of detention and shall remain under suspen- 
sion until further orders- In cases of arrest or detention for a period 
not exceeding 40 hours the worker may be placed under suspension if 
the Deputy Chairman thinks fit and proper. 

(it) If the worker Is released on bail the question whether the worker should 
be allowed to resume duty shall be considered by the Deputy Chairman. 
While permission to resume duty may be granted where the offence is 
a trivial or technical one, no such permission shall be granted If there 
is a serious charge particularly involving moral turpitude, and the 
decision of the Deputy Chairman shall be final. 

(ill) In every such case the Administrative Body shall also ascertain whether 
the charge relates to his work or position as a dock worker- If the 
worker appears to be prima-facie guilty of misconduct or negligence of 
duty he should also be proceeded with in accordance with the provi- 
sions of the scheme, and such proceedings may ordinarily be under- 
taken and continued without waiting for the outcome of the Criminal 


(iv) 


(v) 

(vi) 


case- 
in cases where the charge does not relate to the conduct of the worker as 
a dock worker, no decision shall be taken till the decision of the 
criminal court is known. As soon as the decision of the court is known 
It shall be communicated to the Deputy Chairman for the issue ox 
orders as to how the worker is to be dealt with. 

If the worker Is discharged or honourably acquitted by the Court he shall 
ordinarily he allowed to resume duty, the period under suspension 
being treated as a period on duty- 

if the worker is convicted of a charge which is considered to be of such 
a nature as to render his further continuance as a dock worker un- 
desirable, the Deputy Chairman may on taking into account the tacts 
and circumstances of the case direct the removal of the name of tne 
worker from the Register. In any other case, the Deputy Chairman 
may pass such orders as he thinks fit and proper. 

[No. 53/22/67-Fac- II.] 



THE GAZETTE Or INDIA : MARCH 23, 1908/CHAITRA 3, 1890 fP.wr II- 


S O. 1075 — The following draft of a scheme further to amend the Calcutta Dock 
Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1956, which the Central Government 
proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 4 
of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948), is published 
as required by the said sub-section for the information of all persons likely to be 
affected thereby; and notice Is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into 
consideration on or after the 11th April, 1968- 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken into considera- 
tion by the Central Government, 

Draft Scheme 

1. This Scheme may be called the Calcutta Dock Workers (Regulation of Em- 
ployment) Amendment Scheme, 1968. 

2. In the Calcutta Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1956, 
after clause 45, the following new clause shall be inserted: — • 

“45-A. Special provision in respect of workers involved in criminal charges'. 

Notwithstanding anything contained In the Scheme — 

(i) A worker arrested or detained by the police on a criminal charge (herein- 
after referred to as the ‘charge’) for a period exceeding 48 hours shall 
be deemed to have been suspended by an order of the Deputy Chairman 
with effect from the date of detention and shall remain under suspen- 
sion until further orders- In cases of arrest or detention for a period 
not exceeding 48 hours the worker may be placed under suspension if 
the Deputy Chairman thinks fit and proper- 
(11) If the worker is released on ball the question whether the worker should 
be allowed to resume duty shall be considered by the Deputy Chairman. 
While permission to resume duty may be granted where the offence is 
a trivial or technical one, no such permission shall be granted if there 
Is a serious charge particularly involving moral turpitude, and the 
decision of the Deputy Chairman shall he final. 

(ill) In every such case the Administrative Body shall also ascertain whether 
the charge relates to his work or position as a dock worker- If the 
worker appears to be prlma-facie guilty of misconduct or negligence of 
duty he should also be proceeded with in accordance with the provi- 
sions of the scheme, and such proceedings may ordinarily be under- 
taken and continued without waiting for the outcome of the Criminal 

In cases where the charge does not relate to the conduct of the worker as 
(Iv) In cases wn«-e ke ^ ^ ^ declgi(m shall be taken tlll the decision of the 

criminal court is known- As soon as the decision of the court is known, 
it shall be communicated to the Deputy Chairman for the Issue or 
orders as to how the worker is to be dealt with* 

(v) If the worker Is discharged or honourably acquitted by the Court he shall 
ordinarily be allowed to resume duty, the period under suspension 
being treated as a period on duty- 

rvil If the worker is convicted of a charge which Is considered to he such 
a nature as to render his further continuance as a dock worker un- 
desirable the Deputy Chairman may on taking into account the facts 
and circumstances of the case direct the removalof the “ 
worker from the Register. In any other case, the Deputy Chairman 
may pass such orders as he thinks fit and proper. 

[No- 53/22/67-Fac- II.J 

New Delhi, the 13 th March 1968 
SO. M76.-In exercise °, ! 

of publication of .Me no, ,8 

otlon In *i« OffldM Gazette , »« S^iS.e'and So5 to 

sSshSKS' “^3=2 

Bombay Port Trust, tor whom minimum rates of wages have been fix d 

a rsss K. ssa satst-SM: 



•and which shall be deemed to be the Register of Overtime and Muster Roll afore- 
said for the purpose of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948) and the Mini- 
mum Wages (Central) Rules, 1950 and subject also to the condition that the 
number of hours of overtime put in by a worker on diflcrent dates as well as 
the total of overtime work put in by the worker in a month shall be indicated 
in the proposed form under columns 11 and 12, respectively, in the line imme- 
diately following the line on which the name of the workers is entered. 



Fobm G-14B 

Schedule 


Muster Roll for the Month of 196 


Date of 
Appoint- 
ment 


Earned 


SI. 

Sick No. 


Designation 


Father’s/Husband’s 

Name 


Minimum 

Wage 

Rs. 


Ses Sex 









Contd . — from pre-pege 


Muster Roll for the Month of 


196 



No. of days 
for which 
overtime is 
admissible 




Pay and Allowances 



Over- 

time 

Gross 

Wages 

Payable 

under 

Pay 

Acting 

Allowance 

Rs.P 

Other 

allowances & 
Dearness Pay 
Rs. P 

House Rent 
Allowance 

Rs. P 

Compensa- 
tory Allowance 

Rs. P 

Dearness 

Allowance 

Rs. P 

M.W.A. 

P.T. Rules 

Rs. P 

Rs.P 

Rs.P 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 


Deductions 


P.F. 

Subscrip- 

tion 

V.P.F. 

Subscrip- 

tion 

P.F. 

Advance 

S.I.P.I.P. 

Income 

Tax 

Co-operative 

Credit 

Society 

Rent for 
Quarters 

Other 

Deductions 

Total 

Actual 

wages 

payable 

Dates on 
which over 
time pay- 
ment is 
made 

R 

E 

M 

A 

R 

K 

S 

Rs. P 

Rs. P 

Rs. P 

Rs. P 

Rs. P 

Rs. P 

Rs. P 

Rs. P 

Rs. P 

Rs. P 


26 

27 

28 

29 

30 

3i 

32 

33 

34 

35 

36 

37 


TNo. LWI-I-8(2)/67.] 
K- D. HAJELA, Under Secy. 


V-r ■ 'rj-gyTV ' VT<T T 'O' ,J T T" Vf» ' 



AUK^J, J . I ll; 

--1 — ~ '■ - ■ , 

(Department of Labour and Employment) 


New Delhi, the 14 th March 1968 


™ , 2* * he P° v 7 ers conferred by section 4 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing further amendment In the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. 1300, dated the 5th April, 1967 — - 


In the Table annexed to the said notification, against Serial No 38, for the 
entry “Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Jharsuguda” in 
column 2, the following entry shall be Inserted, namely:— 

"Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Rourkcla-” 


LNo- F- 1/17/68-LRL] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 13th March 1968 

S O. 1078. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Calcutta Insurance Limited 
and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in tho Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 

(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Calcutta constituted under section 7A of the said Act- 

Schedule 

Whether the demand of the General Insurance Employees’ Association for con- 
firmation of the services of the undernamed employees of the Calcutta Insurance 
Limited is justified? If so, to what relief are they entitled and from what date?, 

(1) Shri Samarendra Nath Sarkar 

(2) Shrl Sushil Kumar Dey 

(3) Shri Sudhangsu Bhusan Bhattaehprjee. 

[No. 25/ 4/ 08-LR.III.] 

Netu Delhi, the 13th March 1968 

8.0. 1079. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
'dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Rajaramka Bros- (P) Limited, Tumsar and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified In the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Centra! 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Jabalpur, constituted under section 7 A of the said Act- 

Schedule 

Whether the termination of services of Shri Chatru s/o Machhu Gond (em- 
ployed at Mlragpur Mines of Seth Gopikisan Agarwal) with effect 
from the 15th May, 1967 by the management of Messrs Rajaramka 
Bros. (PI Limited, Tumsar was justified? If not, to what relief is he 
entitled? 


[No. 35/1/07-LRI] 
O. P. TALWAR, Under Secy. 



-Sbe. Sfli>l TO® ttAWTTE OF INDIA : MARCH St, IRO^ 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi _ the 5th March 1968 

S.O. 1080.— In oxercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government, on the recommendation 
of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the provisions of section 9 of the 
said Act shall not apply to the Hindustan Commercial Bank Ltd., Kanpur, in respect 
of the property held by It at Bhcdpur, till the 15th March, 1969. 

[No. F. 15(4)-BC/68 ] 



tiew Delhi, the 14 th March 1968 

S.O. i«8i — S tatement af the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, as on the 8th March, 1968, 

Bajocihg Department 



Capital Paid Up 


Raacrre Fuad 


National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 


National Agricultural Credit (Stabiliaation) Fund 


Satia*ial Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fuad 


{«) Corerament — 

(t) Central Government 
(a) Stitie Government* 


5,00,00,000 Notes 

Rupee Coin .... 

80.00. 004300 Small Coin . 

Bills Purchased and Discounted :- 

131.00. 00.000 (a) Internal 

(6) External 

(c) Government Treasury Bills 
25,00,00,000 Balances Held Abroad* . . 

Investments** 


24,40,68,000 

300,000 

3,06,000 


i73,96,7Looo 

15647.99.000 

110.63.78.000 


30,00,00.000 


112,65,74,000 

4, 63,33^0? 


Loans and Advances to: — 

(i) Central Government . 

(a) State Governmmts@ 

Loans and Advances to: — 

(0 Scheduled Commercial Banks} 

(it) State Co-operative Banks} . 

(w) OtlieR , , , t 


107,90,43,000 

1214)8,16,000 

192,34,83,000 

3,11,15,000 


v t *** hduvk -viam 



(*) Banks— 

(0 Scheduled Commercial Banks 
(a) Scheduled State Co-operative Banks 
(tit) Non- Scheduled State Co-operative B anka 
(tv ) Other Banks ..... 

(c) Others ....... 

Bffls Payable 

Other Liabilities ...... 


122,47,98,000 

5,22,95,000 

75,61,000 

9,28,000 

363,11-83,000 

27.87.47> 000 


Loans, Advance* and Investment* from National 
Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund — 

(a) Loans and Advances to : — 

(0 State Governments ..... 

(it) State Co-operative Banks .... 
(tii) Centra] Land Mortgage Banks 

( b ) Investment in Centra! Land Mortgage Bank 

Debentures .... 

Loans and Advances from National Agricultural 
Credit (Stabilisation) Fund — 

Loans and Advances to State Co-operative Banks 

Loans, Advances and Investments from National Indus- 
trial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund — 


101^5, 86j°oo (a) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank 

(6) Investment in bonds/debentures issued by the 
Development Bank ...... 


Other Assets 


Rupees 


1009^7,05,000 


Rupees . 


27,49, 79,°°° 
ist,79>34>0°° 

7.89.36.000 

7>70,57> oo ° 

5.97.38.000 

57-40,62-000 

1009,27415,000 


•Includes Cash and Short-term Securities. 

••Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term 
Operations) Fund. 

@ Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund, but including temporary overdrafts to 
State Governments. 

t Indudes Rs. 96,06, 96,000 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Section 17(4X0) of the Reserve B«nk of India Act' 

J Exduding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund. 

D*«d the 13 th of March, 1964. 


h 

► 


* {HOT ¥ ^ '• ’ ”mr - tymri 



An Account pursuant to the Reterre Bank of lads Act, 1934, for the week ended the 3th day of March 196!. 

Issue DEpAKTM&rr 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. Rs. 


Notes held in the Banking Department 
Notes in circulation .... 
Total Notes issued .... 


Total Liabilities . 


24-40,68,000 Gold Coin and BuUku : — 

(a) Held in India .... 
32 1 3 ,36,825000 (6) Held outside India 

Foreign Securities ..... 

3237,77,50,000 

Total 

Rupee Coin ...... 

Government of India Rupee Securities 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other Com- 
mercial paper ..... 


115,89,25,000 

16642,00,000 


282,3145,000 

75,19,31,000 

2880,26,94,000 


3237,77,5 0,000 Total Assets 


3237,77,50,°°° 


Dated the 13th day af March 1968. 


L. K. Jha, 
Governor. 


[No F. 3(3)-BC/68.J 




Sic. 5(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAlTRA 3, 1890 


1649 


New Delhi , the 16th March 1068 


S.O. 1082. — In exercise, of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Refutation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government, on the recommendation 
of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the provisions of section 9 of 
the said Act shall not apply to the Gauhati Bank Ltd., Gauhati in respect of the 
undernoted properties held by it, till the 31st March 1969. 

1. 4B-OK-8L of land; Patta No 40, VI 11- Barpanara, Kar.iva, 

2. 4B-4K-HL of land; Patta Nos. 8, 77, 79. 82 and 88. Mauza-Khata 

3- 6B-4K-4L of land; Pattu Nos 260 (216) and 13, Mauza-Sllasundari 

ghopa and Beltola. 


4. 2B of land; Patta No. 88, Mauza-Bahjani. 

5- 4B-17L of land; Patta N 01 . 2, Barpeta Town. 


[No. F. 15(5)-BC/68.] 


S-O. 1083 - — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 read with section 
58 , of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government, on 
the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the pro- 
visions of section 31 of the said Act and Rtile 10 of the Banking Regulation (Co- 
operative Societies) Rules, 1906, shall not apply to the under-noted co-operative 
banka in so far as they relate to the publication of their balance sheets and profit 
and loss accounts for the year ended the 30th June 1987, together with the auditors’ 
reports in a newspaper. 

1. Adilabad Jill a Kendra Sahakari, Adilabad. 

2- Bhimavaram Co-operative Urban Bank Ltd., Bhiinavaram (West Godavary). 


3. Dharmavaram Co-operative Town Bank Ltd.. Dharmavaram (Anantapur). 


4. Kalahari Co-operative Town Bank Ltd-, Kalahasti (Chittoor). 
5 Kollur Parvati Co-operative Bank Ltd-, Kollur (Guntur). 


6, Ongole Co-operative Bank Ltd., Ongole (Guntur). 

7, Repalle Co-operative Bank Ltd, Repalle (Guntur). 

8- I.L.T.D. Staff Co-operative Bank Ltd., Chirala (Guntur). 

9. Hindustan Shipyard Staff Co-operative Bank Ltd., Visakhapatnam-5. 

10- The Co-operative Bank Ltd., No 2935, Salur (Srikakulam). 

11. Chipurupalli Cooperative Urban Bank Ltd-, ChipurupalH (Srikakulam). 
12- Andhra Pradesh Civil Audit Staff Co-operative Bank Ltd , Hyderabad. 

13. Chirala Co-operative Town Bank Ltd., Chirala (Guntur)- 

14. Dlbrugarh Central Co-operative Bank Ltd., Dibrugorh (Lakhimpur) 

15. Nutan Mills Employees’ Co-operative Credit Society Ltd , Ahmedabad. 

16. Shree Gojanan Sahakari Perlhi Lid , Patan (Mehsana). 

17. Peoples Co-operative Bank Ltd., Dholka (Ahmedabad). 

18- Sihor Nagrik Sahakari Bank Ltd , Sihor (Bhavnagar). 

19 Khedbrahma Nagrik Sahakari Bank Ltd., Khedbrahma (Saharkanthu). 

20 Social Co-operative Bpnlc Ltd , Ahmedabad. 

2L Shree Deesa Nagrik Sahakari Bank Ltd., Deesa (Banaskantha). 



1650 TTIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 29, 19W/CHAITRA 9 , 1890 [Ram H~ 

22. Alavi Co-operative Bank Ltd-, Baroda. 

23- Surat Mercantile Co-operative Bank Ltd., Surat. 

24- Baroda People’s Co-operative Bank Ltd-, Baroda- 

23. Padra Nagar Nagrik Sahakari Bank Ltd., Padra (Baroda). 

26- Chanasama Nagrik Sahakari Bank Ltd., Chanasama (Mehaana). 

27. Kalyan Co-operative Bank Ltd., Kalol (Mehsana). 

28- Anantasayanam Co-operative Society Ltd., Trivandrum. 

29. The Railway Employees’ Co-operative Bank Ltd., Madras-3. 

30. The Shree Meenakshi Mills Employees’ Co-operative Bank Ltd., Madurai. 

31. The Government Telegraph Employees’ Co-operative Society Ltd., Madrw- 
32- Bhingar Urban Co-operative Bank Ltd., Bhingar (Ahmednagar). 

33. Raver Peoples’ Co-operative Bank Ltd-, Raver (Jalgaon). 

34. Panvel Co-operative Urban Bank Ltd., Panvel (Kolaba). 

35. Janata Sahakari Urban Bank Ltd.. Sholapur. 

36- Peoples’ Co-operative Bank Ltd., Amaravati- 
37. National Co-operative Bank Ltd-, Bombay-1- 

:_;8, C.K-P. Co-operative Credit Bank Ltd., Dadar (Bombay-28), 
go. Friends’ Co-operative Credit Society Ltd., Bombay-9- 

40. Maratlia Faraspar Sahavakari Fetpedhl Ltd-, Lower Colaba (Bombay-5). 

41. Needs of Lite Co-operative Bank Ltd-, Fort, Bombay-1. 

42- Rahuri People’s Co-operative Bank Ltd., Rahurl (Ahmednagar). 

43. Vengurla Co-operative Urban Bank Ltd-. Vengurla (RatnaglrlJ. 

44. Sakharwadi Kamgar Sahakari Patpedhl Ltd-, Sakharwadl (Satara). 

45- Bassein Catholic Co-operative Bank Ltd., Bassein (Thana). 

46. The Konkan Prant Sahakari Bank Ltd., Bombay-4. 

17 Mahatma Fule Co-operative Credit Society Ltd-, Bombay-27. 

4a. Sakhar Kamgar Sahakari Bank Ltd., Shri Shivajinagar (Ahmednagar). 

49. Sanfili Zila Kamgar Co-operative Bank Ltd,, Bombay-4. 

50. Sholapur District Revenue Department Staff Co-operative Society Ltd.. 

Sholapur. 

31. The Konkanastha Tillori Kunbi Co-operative Credit Society Ltd., Pore], 
Bombay- 12. 

52. Malkapur Urban Co-operative Bank Ltd.. Malkapur (Buldana) 

53, Raj aj inagar Co-operative Bank Ltd., Bangalore-10- 



'SBC.' j , li x,i .b ui> , *A : J , , irA i 

—cr " * 1 

54- Bangalore District Industrial Co-operative Bank Ltd., Bangalore- 

55- Dharwar Division Postal Co-operative Credit Society Ltd-, Dharwar. 

56- Urban Co-operative Bank Ltd., Ajmer- 

57- Umaid Co-operative Credit Society Ltd., Jodhpur. 

[No. F. ia/4/08-SB.J 
V. SWAMINATHAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

New Delhi, the 29 th February 1968 

S-O- 1084. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the provision to article 30# 
of the Constitution, the President heheby makes the following rules to amend 
the Directorates of Revenue Intelligence and Inspection Administrative Officer* 
Recruitment Rules, 1963, namely: — 

1. (1) These rules may be called Directorates of Revenue Intelligence and 
Inspection, Customs and Central Excise, Administrative Officers Recruitment 
(Amendment) Rules, 1968- 

(2) They shall be deemed to have come into force on 29th day of March, 190g. 

2- In the Schedule to the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence and Inspection 
Administrative Officers Recruitment Rules, 1963, for the entries In column 4, follow- 
ing entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(a) Rs. 350—25 — 500—30 — 800, for Administrative Officer in Directorate of 
Revenue Intelligence; 

(b) Rs. 350— 25— 500— 30— 590— EB— 30— 830— 35— 900, for Administrative 
Officer In the Directorate of Inspection, Customs and Central Excise." 

[No. 12/F. No. 25/3/65-Ad. II-] 

T. RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Insubance 

New Delhi, the 12th March 1968 

S O. 1085. — Whereas Shri Debabrata Das Gupta, a member of the Executive 
Committee of the General Insurance Council (vide notification of the Office of the 
Controller of Insurance, Simla No 105-IF(9)/67 dated the 26th September, 1967) has 
resigned from the membership of the committee; 

Now, therefore, In pursuance of sub-section (2) of section 04-G of the Insurance 
Act, 1938 (4 of 1938), the Central Government hereby nominates Shri M- R. Da* 
Gupta, Managing Director, Calcutta Insurance Ltd., 24. Chittaranian Avenue, Cal- 
cutta 12. V be a member of the Committee nice Shri Debabrata Das Gupta 

[No. F. 51(21)-INS.I/07.J 
RAJ K. NIGAM, Dy. Secy. 



-/ AUK- ■ *4* 1 L**- ■■ Ur*- 

= — =^= -—-•=- =■■' = — --■ 

^HNlSa^Y OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 


New Delhi , the J Ath March 1968 


S.0. 1086, — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Fetroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 2803, dated the 7th August, 1867 under sub- 
section (1) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User 
in land) Act, 1982 (50 of 1962) read with erratum notification published vide S.O. 
No. 522, dated 27th January 1968, the Central Government declared its Intention to 
acquire the Right of User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to that 
notification for the purpose of laying pipelines. 


And whereas the competent authority has, under sub-section (1) of section 6 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 


And whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said report,, 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the schedule appended 
to this notification; 


Now, whereas, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of the 
Section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notification is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of that section, the Central Government directs that the right 
of user in the said lands shall instead of vesting in the Central Government, vest 
on this date of the publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas Com- 
mission free from all encumbrances. 


Schedule 

St ate : — Gujarat Dist, -Mohasana T aluka : — Kalof 


Village 





S, Nos. 

Hectare 

Arc 

P.Are 

Vadarawami 





287 

0 

6 

67 

J) 

• 

- 

• 


285 

0 

5 

16 

U 

■ 

• 

- 

• 

2 84 

0 

5 

3d 

J) 





282 

0 

5 

7 d 

33 





275 

0 

5 

<S 

33 





277 

0 

5 

id 

33 




• 

276 

0 

3 

14 

33 





275 

0 

I 

I 

33 



• 


274 

0 

4 

75 

33 





273 

0 

10 

92 

H 





267 

0 

20 

73 


[No. 20(3)67-Prod/10C.l 





* A- . r 


i s&j 


L . »Ai MA . .23. 19WCJMITRA #, IfMH 


X 65 J 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 8 th March 1968 

r 

S.O. 1087 — In the schedule to the notification of the Government of Indin in the Minittiy 
of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 3726 dated the 9th October, 1964 published n the Gazette 
of India Part II, Section 3, Sub-Section (it) dated the 24th October, 1964 read with S. O, No. 
4191 published in thcGazetteof India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (it) dated the 12th Decem- 
ber, 1964, the following may bc^deleted. 


Village 


Survey Plot No. Extent 

B-B-B 


Rampur 

252 

. 0-6-0 


255 

. 0-2-4 

Um&rgahna 

. 326 



446 



447 


Shadipur 

. 437 

. 0-2-11 


623 

0-1-7 

Hardaurpur 

. 253 

. . . O-I7-O 


208 

• 0-9-4 


[No. F. 3 1 (50) 63-ONG/IOC/Vol. 9(0)1 


S.O. 1 088 — In the schedule to the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
•f Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 1191 dated the 2ist March, 1964 published in the Gazette 
if India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-Section (ii) dated the 4th April, 1964, the follcwirg may be 
deleted ; i 


Village 


t 


Survey Plot No. 


Extent 

B-B-B 


Jmraurl Kalyanpur . 1339 


0-4-16 


Jariyapur ... . • 566 . ... 0-0-2 

567 • 0-0-16 

783 0-1-4 

787 0-1-10 

907 ..... 0-0-10 

908 ..... 0-3-0 

909 ..... 0-2-5 

913 0-1-10 

914 ■ ■ 0-0-15 

935 0-1-18 

940 ..... 0-1-15 

943 ..... 0-1-7 

943 0-0-7 

944 ... o-2-to 

955 0-1-0 

968 ... . 0-0-10 

97° 0-1-10 ' 


iasawan Khera ..... 395/93° • . . 0-2-11 

397/933 .... 0-1-10 

398/953 ■ • 0-3-0 

399/956 .... 0-1-2 

409/974 .... o-l-lo 



I&54 


TM* GA7.ET7E OF INDIA ; MARCH 2$, 1 yo 


o , 




Survey Plot No, Extent 

B-B-B 


Khadra . 


62 

66 

68 

78 

S 

2X5 

216 


0-1-4 

O-2-3 

0-5-14 

0-1-6 

0-1-19 

0-6-9 

0-1-6 

O-I-IO 

o-t-o 


Pahur 


113 

114 

US 


0-6-1 3 

0-0-9 

0-6-0 


Basawanpur 175 ..... 0-1-15 

213 0-4-10 

215 ..... 0-0-10 

232 0-2-3 


Yadgarpur 


254 

269 

270 


0-0-10 

0-1-0 

0-6-10 


Habibpur 


Hardaurpur 


Umargahna 


Sadipur 



34 

35 
38/2 
58/1 


0-4-0 

0-1-X6 

0-0-2 

0-0-3 

0-2-0 

0-2-10 

0-8-11 

0-3-0 


199 

204 

205 
209 
230 
232 
240 
252 


0-6-8 

0-1-13 

0-13-2 

0-13-10 

0-10-16 

0-1-5-15 

0-17-0 

0-19-17 


324 

328 

440 

445 

449 

464 

470 


0-6-10 

O-6-15 

0-3-0 

o-3-5 

0-0-5 

0-0-15 

0-0-9 


437 

438 

439 

440 


442 

447 

452 

455 

490 

496 


0-0-5 

0-7-18 

0-2-0 

0-2-0 

0-3-10 

0-0-16 

0-1-18 

0-2-15 

0-0-6 

0-1-4 


2051/2 

2052 

2053 

2079 

2081/3 

2095 


0-1-3 

0-1-16 

0-5-0 

0-3-10 

0-6-3 

0-3-14 


Mauhar • 



$zc S(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 2S, IflK/CHAlTRA 8r*W» llSjJ 


Village 


Mauhar — contd. 


Harsinghpur ■ 


Pahbehta 


Aung 

Rampur 


Survey Plot No, 


Extent 

B-B-B 


2097/1 

2097/a 

2098/r 

2098/a 

2123 

2124 

2140 

2141 
2143 
2148 
2140 

2I§3 

2195 

2196/3 

2201 

3202 

2203 

220a 

3828 

3829/2 

3844 

3865 

3866 

3988 

3991 

3997 

3999/1 

4100/1 

4100/2 

4100/3 

4105 

4106 
4108 
4x09 
4113 

140 

M 3 

144 

154 

155 

94 

105 

109 

123 

126 


202 

228 

238 

242 

246 

250 

257 

284 

285 

287 

290 

291 

260 

261 

262 

263 


0-1-5 

0-0-13 

0-1-6 

O-O-15 

0-I-I6 

0-0-14 

O-3-15 

0-0-13 

0-0-14 

O-I-15 

0-4-14 

0-I-I6 

0-2-10 

0-0-12 

0-1-4 

0-1-12 

0-1-7 

0-1-12 

0-0-6 

0-0-12 

0-1-4 

0-1-5 

0-1-0 

0-1-7 

0-1-0 

0-0-5 

0-2-15 

0-1-0 

O-I-IO 

0-1-0 

0-0-5 

0-1-5 

0-1-13 

O-I-Ol 
0-0- 10 

0-14-4 

0-II-2 

0-3-14 

0-0-10 

0-1-5 

0-5-8 

0-1-16 

0- 5-5 

1- 6-0 
0-0-5 

0- 12-19 

1- 18-19 

0- 1-3 

1- J2-I0 
0 - 4-10 
0-10-6 
0-2-4 
0-8-6 
0-2- XI 
0-3-2 
0-11-14 

0-1-13 

0-4-0 

0-15-6 

0-2-5 

<--5-17 


Hujnapur 


THE’ GAZETTE OF INI) LA : 

MARCH 23 , 1 908 /CHATlRA 3 , 1890 

[Part II— 

Village 

Survey Plot No. 



Extent 






B-B-R 

Hasnapur — contd. 







264 




0-4-19 


265 




0-5-12 


266 




0-0- T 2 


267 




0-4- 1 6 


268 




0-0-4 


272 




0-5-5 


273 




0-8-8 


279 




0-6-0 


280/2 




0-4-4 


289 




0-7-16 


299 




0-4- H 


3 °o 




0 - 5-2 


301 




0-0-6 


302 




0 - 4 - 10 


303 




. 0-4-19 


3°4 




. O-O-I 


344 




. 0-3-IC 


624 




0 - 0-5 


625/1 . 




. 0-8-2 


626 




. 0-4-19 


627 




. 0-1-7 


629 




. 0-4-8 


630 




0-1-16 


631 




. 0-3-3 


640 




. o-n-8 


643 




. 0-5-8 


644 , 




. 0-3-0 


654/1 . 




. 0 - 0-4 


655 




. 0-6-15 


656 




0-2-8 


657 




. 0-0-8 


662 




. 0-1-0 


663 




. 0-3-0 


664 




. 0-16-8 


692 




. 0-5-18 


693 




. 0-2-13 


703 




-. 0-8- S 


706 




. 0-6-1 1 


707 




. 0-3-15 


720 




. 0-3-0 


722 




. 0-10-7 


941/545 




. 0-8-14 

Okhartx ..... 

. 257 




. 0-9-0 


262 




. 0-1-0 


263 




, 0-4-0 


272 




. 0-1-5 


543 




. 0-13-0 


552 




. I-Il-Q' 

Godhrauli 

. 1149 




0-0-4 


1150 




. 00-10 


1163 




. 0-0- 10 


1164 




, 0-1-0 


1x65 




. 0-0-5 


II 7 I 




. 0-2-0 


I2IO 




0-2-0 


1214 




. 0-4-9 


1251 




. O-I-IO 


1252 




, 0-1-13 


1255 




. 0-1-16 


1260 




. 0-0- 10 


1426 




. 0-1-0 


1427 




. 0 - 3-3 


1437 ■ 




. 0 - 5-7 



Village 

Survey Plot No. 



Extent 

B-B-B 

Godhrauli — contd . 








1438 





0-9-1 


1440 





, 0 - 2-9 


1441 





. 0-8-13 


1447 





0-12-19 


1449 





. 0-4-14 


1450 





0-0-7 


1451M 





, 0-2-1 


1453 





0-1-8 


1496 





. 0-4-4 


1497 





. 0-3-4 


1498 





o-o-it 


1499 





. 0-9-3 


1502 





0-8-17 


1303 





. 0-3-10 


1505 





0-I3-I0 


1507 





. 0-7-13 


1509 





. 0-1-15 


1511 





. 0-13-10 


1515 





0-5-10 

Mamrejpur 

478 





0-16-16 


479 





, 0-12-3 


480/1 





0-1-2 


532 





. 0-1-8 


533 





. 0-5-0 


534 





O-II-I4 


536/3 





, 0-8-14 


536/6 





. 0-2-0 


537 





. 0-1-4 


538/1 





0-2-0 


541 





. 0-12-12 


543/1 





. 0-1-2 


543/2 





. 01-3 


544 





, 0-10-0 


546 





0-1-16 


547 





. 0-4-0 


548 





. 0-4-1 


549 





. 0-2-17 


55 ° 





0 - 0-4 


560 





0-1-0 


561 





. 0 - 5-5 


562 





0-0-12 


563 





. 0-8-1 1 


564 





0-4-1 


565 -- 





0-3-16 


566 





, 0-0-6 


567/2 





0-0-9 


568 





O-7-9 


569 





. 0-0-18 


574 





. 0-2-5 


571 /* 





. 0-0-10 


575/3 





a 0-0- 10 


576 





. 0-16-13 

Kanapur Gugauli 

. . . . 2078 





. 0-3-0 


2102 





. 0-0-5 


2110 





a 0-2-5 


am 





. 0-4-10 


2203 





. 0-4-17 


2204 





0-4-6 


2208 





. 04-14 


2209 





0-1-0 


2253 





. 0-3-3 


2254 





• 07-3 


220 B 


■ 



. 0-1-10 



i. Jt I , If .A.1 l.*A: MARU , ,, 1 AxiKA 5; 1890 [Part II— 


Village 


Survey Plot No. 


Extent 

B-B-B 


Kanspur Gugauli — contd. 


2290 





. 0-0-5 

2291 





. o-*-o 

2296 





. 0-3-15 

2428 





. 0-1-10 

2429/1 





. O-I-IO 

2434 





. 0-4-15 

2435 





. 0-1-17 

2436 





. 0-0- 10 

2505 





. 0-05 

2510 





. 0-1-15 

251 X 





0-0-5 

2513 





. 0-1-4 

2514 





. 0-4-0 

2555 





0-1-0 

2557 

2558 





. 0-0- 10' 

, 0-2-0 

2 J39 





. 01- 1 

2561 





. 0-2-16 

2563/1 





0-1-2 

2564 





O-I-IO 


[No. F. 31 (50) 63-ONG/IOC/Vol. 9(b) [ 

S.O.1089.— In the schedule to the notification of the Cctfil net t cf Trdla ir tl e A'irifdy 
of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 1193 dated the 21st Weicb, ief4 pvUithco ir il 1 Gts* tic 
of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii) dated the 4 1 h /p:’ i£f 4 ’Ir fd’< v j< up 1 < 

deleted ; 


Village 


Survey Plot No. Extent 

B-B-B 


Ratnpur Khurana 


Sangawaa 


747 



, 0-0- 10 

799 



0-1-15 

801 



. 0-2-5 

802 



0-4-0 

804 



. 0-2-10 

883 



O-I-I5 

884 



. 0-1-0 

910 



0-1-0 

976 



O-I-IO 

977 



0-1-0 

978 



0-4-0 

985 



. 0-5-10 

988 



, 0-7-0 

989 



. 0-3-0 

991 



. 0-6-10 

794 



0-1-0 

984 



. 0-7-0 

1006 



. 0-7-0 

513 



. O-I-IO 

542 



0-1-0 

547 



o-i-o 

557 



. 0-3-0 

559 



, 0-3-0 

562 



0-5-0 

563 



0-0-15 

564 



, 0-1-0 


Bhojapur 





l66o i GAxit jlE OF INDIA : MARCH 28, 1968/CHAITRA8, t«90 [Part II- 


Village 

Chak Teksari . 

Chak Sada 

Korain 


Aemabad Bhainaahl 


Kandhi . 
Musaidpur 


Atarha , 


Survey Plot No. 

Extent 

B-B-B 

it 

0-2-10 

13 . 

. 0-4-5 

14 

0-1-0 

78 . 

. 0-4-10 

81 

. 0-2-0 

83 . 

. 0-2-15 

98 . 

. 0-9-15 

. 1260 

. 0-4-0 

1262 

0-0- 10 

1263 

0-1-0 

1264 

. 0-6-0 

1312 

. 0-3-5 

1316 

, 0-10-0 

1318 . 

. 0-0-5 

1319 

. 0-I-1O 

1322 

. 0-3-15 

1323 

. 0-8-10 

1324 

. 0-5-0 

1326 

. 0-2-10 

375 ■ 

. 0-13-5 

456 

. 0-4-0 

457 . 

. 0-9-5 

496 . 

. 0-12-10 

503 . 

. 0-7-0 

511 . 

. 0-1-0 

516 . 

0-12-0 

517 . 

. o-t-15 

518 

. 0-1-16 

. 46 . 

. 0-0- 10 

492 . 

. 0-0-10 

. 179 • 

. 0-1-5 

320 

. 0-1-0 

321 . 

. 0-0- 10 

322 

. 0-2-0 

329 . 

. 0-1-0 

331 • 

. 0-1-10 

337 • 

. 0-0-10 

399 . 

. 0-1-0 

401 

. 0-6-10 

406 

, 0-0-10 

407 

, 0-1-0 

408 

, O-I-IO 

413 

. O-I-I© 

415 • 

. 0-0-10 

478/395 

. 0-4-0 

. 164 

. 0-010 

175 

. 0-16-0 

176 

. 06-0 

177 

. 0-11-3 

192 

. 0-5-0 

194 

. 06-10 

195 

. 014-0 

196 

, OII-H 

198 

, 04-0 

202 

. 1 - 7-0 

203 

. 08-0 

205 

. OOIJ 



Sec. 8(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/<?HAiTRA 3.1890 


l66l 


Village 


Survey Plot No. Extent 


Atarha — could. 


Toksari Buzurg 


Bira Buddhanpur 


Sulernanpui 


Ramuwa Panthuwa , 


Madhopur 


Bahrampur 


206 



B-B-B 
. 0-5-0 

217 



0-1-0 

*53 



. 0-0- 10 

256 



014-0 

260 



o-4-o 

261 



. 0-0-5 

. 9*9 



. 0-1*10 

977 



0-1-0 

995 



0-2-0 

1035 



. 0-1-0 

1076 



, 02-0 

1077 



. O-5-I5 

1079 



. O-T-IO 

1086 



0-0- 10 

126 



. 0-1-0 

127 



. 0-4-10 

. 3346 



. 017-0 

3349 



0-8-10 

3331 



0-2-0 

3368 



0-2-10 

3370 



01-0 

3371 



05-0 

3413 



0-4-0 

3430 



0-2-0 

. 69 



0-4-0 

70 



. 0-5-0 

85 



0-10-0 

90 



, 0-6-0 

93 



O-O-It 

312 



. 0-1-5 

312 



. I-O-IO 

314 



. 010-10 

322 


, 

. 0-6-10 

323 


, 

. 0-13-10 

326 



0-6-10 

331 



0-0-1} 

333 



O-I-IO 

334 



. 01-10 

342 



. 0-8-0 

343 



. 0-17-5 

, -1 1 



0-9-0 

13 



, 0-0-15 

45 



. O-J- i 5 

. 628 



0-2-0 

629 



0-3-10 

630 



. 0-3-0 

76 



. 0-8-0 

77 



0-9-0 

88 



0-14-0 

«9 



0-1-0 

102 



0 -I 2 -J 5 

to 3 



. O-I-IO 

105 



0-2-0 

106 



0-3-10 

TIO 



0-2-0 

133 



0-4-0 

143 



. 0-2-10 

144 



0-0-10 


Jamalpur 




[662 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23 , 1968/CHAITRA 3 , 1890 [Part II- 


Village 

Survey Plot No. 

Extent 



B.B.B. 

Jamalpur — cotitd, 

236 

0-2-0 


237 

0-4-0 


239 

0-2-5 


240 

0-19-0 

Bhikharipur ..... 

.29 . 

0-0- 10 


30 

0-0- 10 


31 

0-2-0 


32 

0-9-10 


46 

0-13-0 


48 

0-0- 10 


49 

0-1-0 


64 

0-3-0 


65 

0-3-0 


66 

0-2-0 


[No. F. 3i(50)63-ONG/IOC/Vol. 7(a),] 

S. O. 1090 — In the schedule to the notification of the Government of India in the Minibtn 
of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 2716 dated the 25th July, 1964 published in the Gazette of 
India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (li) dated the 8th August, 1964, the following may be deleted. 


Village 


Survey Plot No. Extent 




B.B.B. 

Jhaupur . 

. . , 

. 6 

0-5-0 



7 

, O-IX -0 



177 

. 0-4-5 

Khambhapur . 

. 

2x0 

0-4-0 



212 

, O-II-O 



213 

0-2-15 



215 

. 0-0-10 



216 

, 0-3-0 



223 

. 0-7-0 



237 

. 0-15-0 


[No. F. 3i(5o)63-ONG/IOC/Vol. 7(b).) 


S.O. 1091 — In the schedule to the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 3020 dated the 24th August, 1964 published m lie Gazette 
of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii) dated the 5th September, 1964, the following may 
be deleted : 


Village 


Survey Plot No. Extent 


B.B.B. 

Jamalpur ..... .... 88 ... 0-2-0 

103 0-1-0 

241 . 0-14-0 


[No. F. 3 1 ( jo)63-ONG/IOC/Vol. 7(c).] 

8,0.1092— In the schedule to the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry ct 
Petroluem and Chemicals S.O. No. 2032 dated the nth June, 1965 published in ihe Gazelle 
of India, Part II, Section 3, sub-section (ii) dated the 26th June, 1965, the following may be deleted : 


Village 


Survey Plot No. Extent 


Bahrampur 


624 

625 


B.B.B. 

0-7-0 

0-6-0 



3 ec. 8 (H)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 1663 


Village 


Survey Plot No. Extent 


Madhopur 
RamuwaPanthuwa . 
Sulemanpur 

Bira Buddhanpur 
TeksariBuzurg 
Ataraha . 

Jamalpur 
Khambhapur . 


3 

B-B-B 

0-1-0 

326 

, 0-1-15 

3351 

. 0-10-0 

3370 . 

, 0-6-0 

72 

. 0-5-15 

975 

0-4-10 

259 

. 0-4-0 

235 

. O-I-IO 

225 

. 0-2-5 


[No. F. 3i(50)63-ONG/IOC/Vol. 7 /(d).] 

S.O. 1093— In the schedule to the notification of the . Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 3475 dated the 24th September, 1964 published 
in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-9eeiion (ii) dated the 3rd October, 1C64, the 
following may be deleted : 


Village 


SurveyPlotNo. Extent 


B-B-B 

Khambhapur ........ 224 . . , 0-2-0 

237 0-1-0 


[No. F. 3 i( 5 o) 63-ONG/IOC/ Vol. 7(e).] 

S.O. r 094 — In the schedule to the notification^of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 3053 dated the 3rd October, 1966 published in the Gazette 
of India Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii) dated the tjth October, 1966, the following may be 
deleted : 


Village 


Survey Plot No. Extent. 


B-B-B. 

Bhikharipur ......... 15 ... 0-1-0 


[No. F. 3i(50)63-ONG/IOC/i027/VoI. 7/(f)-] 


New Delhi, the 11th March 1968 

S.O. 1095- — In the schedule to the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 1806, dated the 18th May, 1964, 
published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-Section (11), dated the 
30th July, 1964 read with S.O. No, 2729, dated the 2Eth July, 1964 published in the 
Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-Section (ii) dated the 8th August. 1964, 
the following may be deleted; 


Village 


Survey Plot No. Extent 


B-B-B 

0-0-10 

0-0-5 

0-0-5 


Uchati 


171 

179 

1 80 



1664 rHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1968/CHA1TRA 3, 1890 [Part II- 


Village 


Survey Plor No. Kxtent 


Naugawau 


Tilsahri Khurd 


Phuphuhar Rajthok 
Karbigawan 




12JV 

1266 

127 1 
I 20 0 
1288 
1291 
1308/1 
1308/3 
1318 
1360 
1364 
1372 
1377/2 
1434/1 

1446 

1447 

1448/2 

1452 

1455 

1535/2 

I53S/2 

1541 

1551 

1669/7 

1702 

I704 

1722 

1731 

1732 

1757 

1758 
I76 1 
1762 
1669/2 

7 60 
777 
51 

5»i 

97 

98 
99/i 
99/2 
100 
101 
349/i 
360/1 
371/2 
371/5 
372/1 
373/3 
602 
603 

613 

614 

6x6 

716 

616 

617/1 

621/1 

621/2 


0-0- 10 
0-0-5 
0-2-10 
0 - 2-0 
0-1-0 
o- 1-0 
0-0-10 
0-0- 10 
0 - 2-0 
0-0- 10 
0-3-0 
0-1-0 
o- 1-0 
0 - 3-0 
0-1-15 

O- I- I o 
0-0-10 
0-0-15 
0 - 3-0 
o-i- 10 
0 - 12-0 
0-1-0 
o-a -10 
0-3-0 
0-10-0 
0 - 8-0 
0-0- 1 0 
0-1-0 
0 - 5-10 
0-7-0 
0-3*0 
o- 1-0 
0-7-0 
0-1-0 

0 - 0-2 

0-0-14 

0 - 0-2 

0-1-5 

0-0-10 
0- 1-0 
0-4-0 
0-3-0 

O-II-C 
0 - 6-0 
0 - 2-10 
0-8- jo 
0-0-10 
0-1-0 
0-4-10 
0-5-0 
0-3-0 
0-4-10 
0 - 2-0 

0-2-15 

0-1-10 

o-x-io 

O-I-IO 

0-5-0 

0-2-5 

0 - 2-0 



Seo. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA'; MARCH £3, 196E/CHA1T&A 3, 1«§0 


1665 


Village 


Survey Plot No Extent 


Karbigawan— conid. 


Sangawan 


Puranpui 


Satbari 


706 

B-B-B 

O-O-IO 

7 10 

0-2-10 

7ix 

0-2-0 

2,239 

0-0-5 

2534 

0-0- I 0 

j,9«7 . 

0-2-0 

581 

0-0-5 

7 85 

0-3-0 

803 

O-4-O 

804 

o-o-io 

983 

0-0-5 

197 

0-0-15 

3 l 6 

0-0-15 

"329 

. 0-3-0 

332 

O-O-IO 

368 

0-0*- 10 

369 

9-3-5 

380 

O-O-IO 

383 

0-0-5 

384/1 

o-o-xo 

392 

O-I-IO 

590 

o-o-io 

592 

O-I-IO 

594 

O-O-IO 

690 

0-2-10 

700 

0-1-0 

730 

0 - 0-5 

733 

0-0-10 

754 

O-I-IO 

769 

0-14-10 

794 

0-5-0 

797 

O-O-IO 

798 

0-4-10 

946 

0-2^10 

953 

O-II-O 

958 

O-4-O 

962 

0-3-0 

969 

0-4-0 

970 

O-I-IO 

971 

0-3-0 

975/2 

0-0- 1 j 

980 

0-1-5 

983 

0-5-0 

984 

0-0-10 

985/1 - 

0-0-10 

301 

0-7-0 

396 

I-I2-I0 

397 

0-10-0 

415 

0-8-0 

416/1 

o-ii~5 

416/2 

0-9-10 

419 

0-2-10 

460/1 

o-8-o 

460/2 

0-5-0 

463 

- 0 - 4-4 

478 

0-4-5 

f 

0-2-10 

15 

0-3-0 

18 

0-4-0 

1 14 

0-0*- 5 

1 1 7 / 1 

0-1-0 


Tharepah 



i666 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 28, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Part II- 


Village 

Survey Plot No. 

Extent 

Tharepah — conta . 

120/2 

B.B.B. 
0-0- 10 


137 

0-0-15 


139 

O-I-IO 


173 

O-O-IO 


179 

O-I-IO 


197 

O-O-IO 


198 

0-1-0 


203/1 

O-O-IO 


268 

O-I-IO 


289 

0-1-0 

Dcepapui 

. 888 

O-O-IO 


978 

0-1-0 

Newada Bausar 

296 

0-2-0 


297 

. 0 - 0-5 


326 

0-0- I T 


327 

0-1-0 


334 

0-0-12 


360 

0-0-5 

Gauriva 

. 156 

. 0-0-16 


]6q 

, 0-0-8 

Gangapur .... 

297 

. 0-0-15 


433 

0-0-5 

Bausar .... 

• 975 

0-I-I2 


1003 

0-0-6 


1008 

. 0-1-2 


1153 

. 0-0-5 


t 238 

0-0-12 


[No. F. 31(50)63-OB/IOC/Vol. II/(a).] 

S.O. 1096.— In the Schedule to the Notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum. & Chemicals S.O. No. 3027, dated the 24th August, 1964 
published in the Gazette of India. Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii), dated the 
5th September, 1964, the following may be deleted: 


Village 


Survey Plot No. 

Extent 

Tharepah 


196/2 

B-B-B 

0 - 2-0 



290 

0 - 0-10 



[No. F. 31(50)63-OR/IOC/Vol.II/(b).] 


8.0. 1097- — In the Schedule to the Notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 3422, dated the 19th September, 
1904 published in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (if), dated 
the 26th September, 1964, the following may be deleted: 


Village 

Surrey Plot No. 

Extent 

Nnugawan 

1276/3 

B-B-B 

0-4-0 

Puranpur 

768 

0-6-0 


[No. F. 31(50)83-OR/IOC/Voi. II/(c).] 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . MARCH 23, IM8/CHAI1 3, 1890 1667 


8,0. 1098. —In the Schedule to the Notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 3727, dated the 13th October, 
1964 published in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3, Sub-Section (ii), dated 
the 24th October, 1064, the following may be deleted: 


Village 

Survey Plo' N'> 

Extent 

Barra 

463 

B-B-B 

0-0-5 


637 

0-1-0 


885 

0-0-15 


893 

O-I-IO 


1214 

0-0- 10 


1289 

0-0-5 

Gujmni 

474 

0-0-5 


475 

0-0-5 


478 

O-O-IO 


ii43 

0-0-15 


[No. F. 31(50)63-OR/lOC/Vol II/(d).) 


S.O. 1099. — In the Schedule to the Notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 823, dated the 6 th March, 1965. 
published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii), dated the 
13th March 1965. the following may be deleted: 


Village 


Survey Plot No Extent 


Karbigwan 


35 ° 


B-B-B 

0-1-0 


[No. F. 31(BO)03-OR/IOC/Vol. II/(e).l 


New Delhi, the \2th March 1 9611 

S.O. 1100 — In the Schedule to the Notification ol the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 1085, dated the 18th March. 
1964 published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-Section (ii), dated 
the 28th March, 1964, the following may be deleted: 


Village 


Survey Plot Extern 

No. 



B-B-R 

’34/2 

0-4-0 

338 

O-O-IO 

846 

0-1-0 

TOI 4 /I 

0-2-5 

1014/2 

0-0- TO 

541/1 

O-O-IO 

541/3 

O-O-IO 

4 

O-O-IO 

45/T 

O-O-IO 

46 

0 - 0-15 

93/i 

0 - 1-5 


Chakdih.t 



1668 


rH£ GAZETTE, of INDIA MARCH 21, J 908 /GHATCRA 8 , 18J>0 [Pari II- 


Villagc 


Nthwai 


Baksandi 


Bela Ahiran 


Sarwanpur 

Hempui 


Tikari 

(Jmapur Kalan 


Survey Plot No. Extent 


63 

B-B-B 

0-1-0 

69/1 

0 - 0 - ro 

93 

o-O- <; 

94 / 1 

0-0-5 

94/2 

0-0-5 

94 / 3 

0-0-5 

97 

0-0-5 

144 

o-o-io 

14 ? 

0-0-8 

24/2 

0-1-0 

25 

o- 5-5 

28/2 

0-1-0 

3 i/i 

0-3-0 

57/2 

0-2-5 

58/4 

0-2-10 

72/1 

0-0- ; 

273/2 

0-5-6 

278/2 

O-3-0 

284 

o-3-io 

285 

0-3-10 

306 

0-8-0 

307 

0-4-0 

312 

0-1-15 

322 

0- 12-10 

29 

0-II-I2 

46 

0-1-0 

47 

0-5-10 

48 

0-0- Io 

51 

0-2-0 

55 

0-4-10 

t 30 

0-2-12 

m 

0-4-9 

50 

0-1-0 

4 1/4 

0-3-0 

42/2 

0-0-10 

43 '3 

0-0- ie 

44/3 

o-l-lo 

44 /J 

0-2-10 

44/11 

0-1-0 

44/12 

0-1-0 

77 

0-1-0 

143/1 

O-T-IO 

468 

0-2-0 

483 

0-1-0 

485 

0-4-10 

486 

0-0- 10 

499 

0-1-10 

soo 

O-T-0 

165 

0-2-5 

1 66 

0-2- TO 

167 

O-4- TO 

226 

0-3-0 

228 

0-0-5 

229 

O-O-IO 

230 

0-3-5 

231 

0-I-I4 

258/1 

0-1-0 

264 

0-3-0 

266/1 

*0-1 - 10 

267^2 

0-3-TO 


Gareths 




Sec 3(d)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

march 23, 1968/CHAJT?tA 3. 

1890 166 ^ 

Village 

Survey Plot No 

Extent 



B-B B 

Chaukarha Lachhan 

170 

0-0-15 


171 

0-1-0 


1S9/1 

O-O-IO 


189/2 

0-1-0 


207/2 

O-I-IO 


210 

0-4-15 


226/ 1 

0-0-5 


226/2 

0-0-15 


243/2 

0-2-0 


244/1 

0-1-5 


244/2 

0-1-0 


24 s 

0-1-0 


277 

o-o- Tr 


278 

0-2-0 


286 

0-2-15 


287 

0 - 0 - is 


? 95 12 

Q-I-I 5 


29^ 

O-O-IO 


298/ 1 

0 - 1-5 


298/2 

0-2-10 


308 

0-1-0 


709 

0 4-0 

lilsahijan Khui d 

297/2 

0 2-0 


355/1 

0-0-15 

Bi-iahijan Kalau 

139/1 

0*0-10 


144 

0-1-15 


146/1 

O-O-IO 


146/6 

0-0-3 


146/7 

0-0-1 3 


T46/8 

0-1-2 


143/3 

0-3-0 

kukuri 

304/ 1 

0-0-5 


387/4 

0-0-5 


388/2 

0-0-10 


390/2 

O-O-IO 


472/ T 

0-0-15 


475/1 

0-0-5 


}8o/r 

0-0-5 


482/r 

0-2-5 


518 

o-t-o 


346 

0-3-0 


148 

0-2-0 

Kolali i 

14 /i 

0-0-R 


44/2 

0-0-8 


44/3 

0 - 0-3 


14/4 

0 - 0-3 


44/4 

0-0-3 


47 

0-0-15 


[No F 31(5O)03-OR/IOC/Vol 8/(a) 1 
S O 1101 — In the schedule to the notification of the Government of India m the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S O No 1602, dated the 29th April, 1904 
puolished in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-Section (n) dated the 
‘tth May, 1964 the following may be deleted, 


VlJlftgL 


Survey Plo No Extern 


51 

B-B-B 

0^0-5 

135/4 

0-2-0 

135/2 

0-1-0 

135/3 

0-0-5 


l ru\Mi 



1670 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 2.1. 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Pari II- 


Vtllage Survey Plot No. Extern 


B.B.B. 

Uruwa — ctintd, 135/4 o-i-jo 

138 0-7-10 

141 h 0-0-5 

145 0-3-10 

148 0-2-0 

172 0-2-0 

478 0-1-0 

479 0-1-0 

508 0-0-5 


[No. F. 3](5O)03-OE/IOC/Vol. B/(b).J 

S.O. 1102 — In the schedule to the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals SO. No. 1784, dated the 14th May, 1964 
published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-Section (ii), dated the 
23rd May, 1964, the following may be deleted; 


Village 


Survev Plot No. Extent 


Manpur 

Tikri 

Nahwtti 


B-B-B 

105 0-2-0 
598 0-2-0 
147/1 O-O-IO 


[No. F, 31(50)63-OR/IOC/Vol. 8/(e).] 

S-O. 1103. — In the schedule to the notification of the Government of India In the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No 1808, dated the 18th May, 1964 
published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-Section (ii), dated Hie 
20th May, 1964. the following may be deleted; 


Village 


Survey Plot No. Extent 


Uruwa 


482 


B-B-B 

0-4-0 


[No. F. 31(5O)03-OR/IOC/Vol. 8/(d).J 


S.O. 1104. — In the schedule to the notification of the Government ol India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O, No, 2028, dated the 8th June, 1985 
published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-Section (ii), dated the 
26th June, 1965, the following may be deleted, 


Village 


Survey Plot No. Extent 


Nahwai 

Uruwa 

Bisahijan Kalan 

Sarwanpur 

Kathauli 



B-B-B 

7S/2 

o-o-io 

137 

0-2-0 

J 33 /a 

Q-I-I S 

52 

0-0-5 

839 

0-8-0 


1 No F. 3H50)63-OR/JOC/Vol. 3/(e).] 



Sit 3 (h)] 1 HE GA/.LTTF OF INDIA. MARCH 23, 1968/CHAITRA 3, 1890 1671 


New Delhi, the 14th March 1968 

■S.O. 1105- —Id the schedule lo the notification ol the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Petroleum & Chemicals SO. No. 2332 dated the 14th July, 1965 
published in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3. Sub-Section (ii) dated the 
_14th July. 1965, Ihc following tnay be deleted- — 


Village 


Sui vey Plot No 


1-xtent 


Baruin 


B-B-B 

473 . . 0-2-0 


I No F U(50)63-ONG/IOC/Vol 3/ (a) ] 


S.O- 1106 —In the schedule to the notification ol the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals SO No. 1986 dated the 27th May, 1964 
published in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3, Sub-Section (lil dated the 
8th June, 1964, the following may be deleted- — 


Village 


Survey Plot No 


P.xtent 


Mahmoodput 


B-B-B 

1467 . . . 0-1-0 


iNo F , 11(50)61 ONG/IOC/Vol 3(b) ] 


S.O. 1107. — In the schedule to the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals SO. No 1779 dated the 11th May, 1964, 
published In the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3, Sub-Section (ii) dated the 23rd 
May, 1964, the following may be deleted:— 


Village 


Survey Plot No Extent 


B-B-B 

Sikandarpur ... ... 681 . . 0-1-0 


INo F 31(90)G3-ONG/IOC/Vol 3(c) ] 

S.O 1108— In the schedule to the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals SO. No 1083 dated the 18th March 
1964 published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3 Sub-Section (ii) dated 
the 28th March, 1964 the following may be deleted — 


Village 


Survey Plot No. 


Extent 


Usi# 



B-B-B 

3189 

O-1-5 

3195 

O-I-Q 

3211 

O-O-IO 

3224 

O-O- 10 

322; 

O-O-IO 


[No F 31 (30163 ONG/IOC/Vol 3/(d) ] 



I g 7 2 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 23, 1908/CHAITRA 3, 1890 [Past II 


SO. 1109 .—In the schedule to the notification ot the Government ot India in 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S-O. No. 1084 dated the 18th March. 
1904 published in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3. Sub-section (ii) aated 
the 28th March, 1984, the following may be deleted. — 


Village 


Survey Plot No. Extent 


B-B-B 


HarnathpU! 


Marautia Makrand alia< Kajarabi 

Patkhau ia 

Hsrum . ... 


Dildarnagar . 
Harikarar.r ur 


734 


„ O-O- IO 

739 


. 0-1-0 

745 


. O-O- TO 

t 330 


O-O-IO 

1339 . 


. 0-1-0 

134 ? 


. 0-1-0 

X35° 


. O-O-TO 

1 374 


. 0-0-5 

2195 


. 0 - 0 - TO 

2197 


0-0- T 0 

2198 


t 0-1-0 

2201 


. 0-2-10 

2223 


0-0-5 

202 


0-1-0 

208 


. O-X- 3 

209 


O-T-O 

2549 


0 - 2-70 

2554/1 . 


0-0-10 

3556/2 . 


O-T-O 

94 


0-0-10 

10S 


O-O-5 

132 


. 0-2-0 

202 


. O-O-TO 

27ft 


. 0 - 1*15 

164 


0-1-0 

480 


, 0-0-10 

48“ 


0-2-0 

535 


0-2-0 

3693/2 


, O-T-O 

64 


0-0-10 

66 


. 0-0- 10 

7 i 


0-0-10 

73 


. 0-1-0 

75 


O-O-TO 

>43 


. 0-1-0 

144 


. 0-0- ro 

r 47 


. 0-0- If 

149 


. 0 - 2 - TO 

413 


, O-O-5 

it 4 


. O-O-TO 

415 


O-O-5 

223 


. 0-1-0 

224 


. O-I-IO 

236 


. O-I-IO 

238 


. 0-0-5 

247 


. 0-0- s 

24S 


0-0-5 

25l'l . 


O-O-TO 

252 


0-0- 10 

257 


. 0-0- 1 0 


Mamhar Khurd 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MARCH 2 S, 1968 /CHA 1 TRA 3 , 1890 

1673 

Village Survey Plot No. 

Exten 



B-B-B 


Jagwal 357/2 . 

0-0- 10 


368 

. 0-3-10 


371/3 ■ 

. O-I-IO 


372 

0-3-0 


Khemapur ........ 140 

. o-i-o 


143 

0-1-0 


I 44 /I • 

. 0-0-15 


IliQchipur ........ 313/6 

. 0 - 7-5 


uo 

_ 0-6-0 


32t/l&2 

. 0-3-10 


496 

, 0-8-10 


497 

. ‘-'-3-5 


498 

0-3-10 


-199 

, 0-0-15 


soo 

0 - 4-0 


503 

. 0-2- > 


516 

. 0-0-10 


519 

. O-0-5 


517 

. O-I-IO 


562 

O-I-IO 


563 

. 0-6-0 


591 

. 0-7-5 


Darauli ...... . . 1649 

. 0-1-0 


1653 . 

0-0-10 


1654 

, 0-1-0 


Mania 37 . 

. 0-0*10 


93 

. 0-0-19 


94 

. 0-0- 1 


369/2 . 

. 0-3-0 


Sikandarpur . 682 

. 0-1-0 


686M . 

. 0-0-10 


688 

. 0-1-0 


700 

, 0-1-0 


720/2 . 

. O-I-Q 


723 

. 0-1- 


723/1 . 

. 0-1-0 


723/2 . 

. 0-^ -0 


724 

. 0-1-15 


72 S 

. 0-1-0 


TV - 

. 0-0- 10 


•31 

, O-T-Ii. 


7 60 

♦ 0-1*1 


774 

0-0-5 


776 

, 0-1-0 


/ /9 

787/1 

0-1-0 

. o-i-o 


976 

. ' - 0-5 


981 

- 0-0-5 


• 88 

0-0- 10 


1011 

- 0-5 


1024 

0-0- 10 


1118 

. 0-1-. 


1120 

O-I-I 


1122 

0-0-10 


123/1 . 

. 0-0- 10 


147 . 

0-2-0 


ti 5 -o . 

C.-I -0 


1170 

. O-I-IO 


1171 

, O-I-IO 


TI 74 

. 0-0- lo 


1176 

C-I -0 


II 9 

. 0-1-18 



[No. F. 31(50)63-ONG/IOC/Vol.3/(e).l 
P. P. GUPTA, Under Secy. 


PRINTED nf INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1968 




