REGISTERED No. D . 222 


The Eazette um of India 


सत्यविजया 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


- - 


No. 4 ] 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India extraordinary were published upto 16th January , 
1959 : 


18820 
No. 


No . and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


8 


9th 


of films 


S . O . 11 , dated 

January , 1959 . 


Certification 

thercin . 


specified 


Ministry of Informa- 

tion and Broadcast- 
ing. 


9 


s. O . 163, dated 15th 

January , 1959 . 


Do. 


Certification 

therein , 


of films specificd 


| 


los , O , 164 , dated 14th 

January , 1959 . 


Election 

India , 


Commission , 


List of contesting Candidates in 

the Election to the House of the 
People from the Nagpur Consti 
tuency . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes . 


PART II - Section 3 -- Sub -section (ü ) 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations of Union Territories ). 

ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1959 
$. 0 , 167. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 22 
of the Representation of the People Act , 1951 (43 of 1951 ) , the Election Commission 

( 173 ) 


174 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959/MAGHA 4 , 1880 


(PART II 


hereby appoints the following four officers, in addition to those appointed by Its 
notification No. 434 / 4 / 56 ( 1 ) , dated the 8th January, 1957, as amended by its 
notification No . 434 / 4 / 58 ( 1 ) , dated the 22nd October , 1958 , to assist the Returning 
Omcer for the Nagpur Parliamentary constituency in the performance of his 
functions, namely : 

1. Sub - divisional Officer , Nagpur, 
2 . Sub -divisional Officer, Umrer, 
3. Shri M . B . Panse, Deputy Collector, Nagpur, 
4 . Shri K . R . Bobde, Deputy Collector, Nagpur , 

[No. 434 / 4 / 58 ( 1) . ] 

By Order , 
S . C . ROY, Secy . 


New Delhi, the 15th January 1959 
S . O . 168. Whereas the election of Shri Brahm Prakash as a member of 
the Lok Sabha from the Delhi Sadar constituency of that Sabha, has been called 
in question by an election petition duly presented under Part VI of the Represen 
tation of the People Act , 1951 (43 of 1951) , by Shri Ram Phal son of Raghu Nath 
Sahai, Advocate , 4544 , Deputy Ganj, Sadar Bazar , Delhi; 

And whereys the Election Tribunal appointed by the Election Commission in 
pursuance of the provisions of section 86 of the said Act, for the trial of the said 
election petition has , in pursuance of the provisions contained in section 103 of 
the said Act, sent a copy of its order in the said election petition to the Commis 
sion ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of the provisions of section 106 of the said Act , 
the Election Commission hereby publishes the said order of the Tribunal. 


BEFORE SHRI KARTAR SINGH CAMPBELLPURI, MEMBER ELECTION 

TRIBUNAL : DELHI, 
Shri Ram Phal Bansal 

Petitioner . 

versus 
1 . Shri Brehm Parkash 

Respondent No. 1 , 
2 . Shri Shyama Charan Gupta 

Respondent No. 2 , 
3 . Smt. Gurcharan Kaur 

Respondent No. 3 . 
4 . Shri Hukam Chand 

Respondent No. 4 . 
5 . Shri Tri - Bhuvan Dutt 

Respondent No. 5 . 
6 . Sohdi Pindi Dass 

Respondent No. 6 
7 . Shri Brij Mohan 

added u / s , 99 of R . P . Act . 
8 . Shri Ora Parkash Sharma 

added u / s , 99 of R . P . Act . 
9 . Shri Om Parkash Jain 

added w / s, 49 of R . P . Act. 

PETITION No . 140 /57 . 
APPEARANCES : 

Shri Ram Phal Bansal, Advocate in person assisted by Shri Baij Nath Aggar 
wal, Pleader for the Petitioner . 

Shri D . D . Chawla , assisted by Shri L . R . Gupta , Advocate for respondent 
No, 1 . 

Shri U . M . Trivedi, Advocate - for respondent No. 2 
Shri Gian Singh Vohra , Advocate for Shri Om Parkash Sharma. 
Shri Kishen Chand, Advocate for Shri Brij Mohan . 
Shri K . K . Sharma, Advocate - for Shri Om Parkash Jain . 

JUDGEMENT. 
This petition was preferred by Shri Ram Phal Bansal, an clector of Delhi 
Saddar Constituency u / s . 81 of the R . P . Act , 1951 ( as amended ) for setting 
aside the election of respondent No. 1, Shri Brahm Parkash who was returned 
from the Delhi Saddar Constituency No. 398 . The clection was contested by six 
candidates and the polling took place on 3rd March , 1957. Respondent No. 1 , 


gian sinhana, Navocate 


SEC 9 (1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


175 


Shri Brahm Parkash was declared successful as a returned candidate and the 
votes secured by each of the contesting candidates were as follows: 
Mr. Brahm Parkash 

63 , 848 
Shri Shyama Charan Gupta 

48, 248 
Smt. Gurcharan Kaur 

1 . 360 
Shri Hukam Chand 

1 ,475 
Shri Tribhuvan Datta Bhuvanesh 

925 
Shri Şohdi Pindi Dass 

1, 151 


2 . The election of the returned candidate has been challenged in the Petition 
on the ailegations relating to certain corrupt practices aileged to have been com 
mitted by respondent No. 1 , or his agent or by persons other than the said candi 
date or his election agent in the interest of respondent No. 1 . It was also alleged 
that the result of the election in so far it concerns the returned candidate has been 
materially affected by the corrupt practices committed in the interest of the re 
turned candidate by persons other than the candidate or his election agent or 
by person acting with the consent of the returned candidate or election agent. 
The particulars of the alleged corrupt practices were given in paragraph 7 to 28 
( both inclusive ) and these may be summarised as below at the outset : - 


( a ) That on or about 1st March , 1957 a poster was published in Nagri 

character at the instance of Respondent No. 1 under the signatures 
of one Om Parkash Sharma, describing himself as Mantri, Yuvak 
Samaj, Saddar Bazar , Delhi, wherein certain accusations were levolled 
against the personal character of Shri Shyama Charan Gupta , res 
pondent No. 2 , and that the allegations contained in the said poster 
were false to the knowledge of respondent No. 1, or his agent or 
other persons who werc responsible for the publication of the said 
poster and circulation thereof. That these posters in Hindi as well 
well as in Urdu Werc printed in Gupta Printing Press and were cir 
culated and pasted in conspicuous places on the walls in different 
parts of the Delhi Saddar constituency ; and were issued with the 
object of prejudicing the prospects of the clection of respondent 
No. 2 . 


( b ) That on or about 28th February 1958 a poster purporting to have been 

issued by a body known as Anti - Communal Front and printed by 
Gupta Printing Works was circulated at several places in Delhi 
Saddar constituency , under the heading Rashterpita Gandhi ki Hatya 
etc , and the samc was published with the object to prejudice the 
election of respondent No. 2 . 


( c ) That on Friday , the 1st of March , 1957, Shri G , B , Pant, Hon ble Minis 

ter for Home Affairs, Central Government addressed a public meeting 
and in the course of his speech made a promisc to the traders of 
Delhi that the Government would so amend the sales tax law with 
regard to cloth as to levy it at the place of production and would 
also include it in the excise duty . And that this promise made by 
the Union Minister was calculated to interfere with the free exercise 
of thc electoral right of voters by the traders of the Delhi Saddar 
constituency and amounted to undue influence as contemplated u / s . 

123 ( 2 ) of the R . P . Act. 
( c ) That on or about 1st March , 1957 , the Chiet Commissioner of Delhi, 

with a view to render assistance to respondent No . 1 ordered the 
Commissioner of Sales Tax , Shri D . D . Kapila , to issue a notifica 
tion reducing the sales tax from Rs. 6 per cent. to 1 per cent. on 
jewellery made of gold and silver with effect from 1st March , 1957. 
That the said action of the Chief Commissioner was calculated to 

prejudice the clection of respondent No. 2 . 
( d ) That on or about 20th February, 1957, Ch . Murari Singh , the Revenue 

Assistant and Requisition Officer , Delhi, a Government Gazetted 
Officer of the Government with a view to assist in the furtherance 
of the prospects of Shri Brahm Parash made an anncuncement that 
property belonging to the firm of M / s. Gulab Singh Johari Mal 
shall be acquired by the Government for the benefit of the Dera 
Ismail Khan Cooperative Society Ltd . That immediately after the 
said announcement, a poster was published and displayed under the 
signatures of the members of the society calling upon refugee voters to 
vote for respondent No . 1, and that it amounted to assistance by 


176 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[PART TI 


Government officer in the election of Ch . Brahm Parkash respondent 

No, 1. 
( e ) That respondent No. 1 or his agent or other person or persong on his 

behalt indulged in corrupt practices by promising cash payment to 
the voters brought back their ballot papers , without casting them so 
that the said purchased ballct papers might later on be dropped in 
the ballot box of respondent No. 1 by his trusted voters and this 

amounted to corrupt practice . 
( f ) That Shri Gopi Nath Aman , Chairman of the Public Relations Com 

mittee of the Delhi Administration , a Government servant canvassed 
and persuaded the veters to cast their votes in favour of respondent 
No. 1 and that as such respondent No . 1 arranged and procured the 
services of the said Government servant in the furtherance of his 
election prospects which amounted to corrupt parctice u / s 123 ( 7 ) of 

the Act . 
+ 5 ) That the ballot boxes of the polling station No . 20 situate at M . B . Prl 

mary School, Sohan Ganj and polling station No . 37 , M . B . School 
Basti Panjabian , Subzimandl, were found to be defective inasmuch as 
they could be opened without breaking the green paper seals of the 
said ballot boxes and that it contravened the election rules and 

amounted to corrupt practice . 
( h ) That respondent No . 1 or his agent or other persons on his beball 

threatened among others the voters of Gurkimandi, Nabi Karim , Andha 
Mughal etc ., with total eviction and complete uprooting, in the event 
of their voting against respondent No. 1 and in favour of respondent 

No. 2 and this amounted to corrupt practice . 
(1 ) That respondent No. 1 or his agent or any other person on his behalt 

Induced the voters by Illegal gratification to vote in favour of respon 
dent No. 1 at polling stations No. 37 and 62 and this amounted to a 

corrupt practice u / $ 123 ( 1 ), of the Act. 
3. The petition was registered by the Election Commission , India , cn 20th 
April, 1957 and was duly referred to the Tribunal constituted under Sec. 86 of 
the R .P . Act of 1951 on 20th May , 1957. The written statement in due courge 
was Aled by respondent No. 1 on 9th June, 1957 wherein preliminary objections 
were raised to the effect that the particulars embodied in the petition were vague 
and Indefinite and as such the petition was liable to be dismissed with costs . It 
was submitted inter - alia that in the alternate , the allegations contained in paras 7 , 
8 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 15 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 23 , 24 , 27 and 28 were liable to be struck off 
on account of non - compliance with the requirements of Section 83 of the Act . 
Of the other respondents , Shri Shyama Charan Gupta respondent No. 2 and Shri 
Pindi Dass respondent No . 6 also filed their written statements . Respondent No. 6 
raised some legal objections and impugned the correctness of the publication 
of the petition by the Election Commission , India , in the Gazette of India , Shri 
Shyama Charan Gupta , respondent No. 2 supported the petition in all its details 
as a consenting party to the petition . The following preliminary issues were 
struck by the Tribunal: 
( 1 ) Did not the Election Commission satisfy the conditions of section 86 , 

R . P . Act , 1951 before referring the petition to the Tribunal for trial ? 
If so , what is its effect on the Tribunal s competency to proceed with 

the petition ? 
( 2 ) Is the petition barred by time? 
( 3 ) Are full particulars of the alleged corrupt practices given in the peti 

tion ? If not, what should be the proper order ? 
( 4 ) Are the respondents entitled to copies of the annexures to the petition 

mentioned as schedules in the petition ? 
(5 ) Have the annexures heen properly verified ? If not, what is its effect ? 
4 . These issues were disposed of by the Tribunal s order dated 18th June, 1957 
and the petitioner was granted time for Aling an application of amendment of 
particulars relating to alleged corrupt practices . The petitioner accordingly ap 
plied on 12th July , 1957 for amendment of the particulars upon which objection 
was taken by respondent No . 1 and the then Member of the Tribunal allowed the 
Amendment asked for by an order dated 22nd July , 1957 with the result that the 
petition with amended particulars was duly brought on the record . Both the 
orders of the Tribunal dated 18th June, 1957 and 22nd July 1957 shall form a part 
of this judgement and are appended as appendix ( 1 ). The amended petition 


$ rc. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


177 


reveals that paragraphs 15A , 19A , 20A , 22A , 23A . 26A , 27A and 28 A were added 
In the petition and fresh written statement by respondent No. 1 was Aled on 1st 
August, 1957 . This time the respondent on merits categorically denied all the 
material allegations in respect of the alleged corrupt practices and in para 29 oť 
the written statement asserted 


" That the petiton has bcen filed with a view to harass this respondent in 

a spirit of revenge for the defeat of the respondent No . 2 who is a 
close associate of the petitioner . The allegations contained in the 
petition are unfounded , false and vexatious to the knowledge of the 
petitioner . Assuming, but not admitting that any of the alleged 
corrupt practice was in fact committed , it was not by this respon 

dent, or his election agent, or any other person with his consent." 
The pleadings gave rise to the following issues : -- 
l- A . Were corrupt practices as mentioned in Section 123 ( 4 ) committed by 

the respondent No. 1 or his election agents or any other person with 
the consent of the returned candidate or his election agent in the 
manner stated in paragraphs 7 to 15A. of the petition ? 


1 - B . If the aforesaid corrupt practices are proved to have been committed 

by a person other than those described in issue No . 1 - A , were they 
committed in the interest of the returned candidate and has the result 
of the election in so far as it concerns him been materially affected ? 


2 - A . Was the corrupt practice of undue influence [ Section 123 ( 2 ) ] committed 

by the returned candidate , respondent No . 1 or with his consent or 
the consent of his election agent consisting in the delivery of the 
speech at a public meeting in Delhi by the Hon ble Mr. G . B . Pant 
in the manner described in paragraphs 16 to 19 ( a ) and 18 - B and 

19 ( a ) and 19 - B ? 
2 - B , If consent is not proved , was the corrupt practice committed in the 

interest of the candidate and was the result of the election as regards 

him materially affected thereby ? 
3 - A . Was the corrupt practice of obtaining or procuring ctc. of any assist 

ance from persons in the service of the government committed in 
furtherance of the prospects of respondent No. 1 [ Section 123 ( 1 ) ] by 
the returned candidate or his election agents or any other person with 
the consent of either or both in the manner described in paragraphs 

19 ( c ) and 20 and 20 - A ? 
3 - B . If the said corrupt practice is proved to have been committed by a 

person other than mentioned , was it committed in the interest of the 
returned candidate and has the result of the election as regards him 

heen materially affected ? 
1 - A , Was the corrupt practice of obtaining or procuring etc . of any assist 

ance from persons in the service of the Government committed for 
the furtherance of the prospects of respondeat No. 1 (Section 123 ( 1 ) ] 
by the returned candidate or his election agents or any other person 
with the consent of either or both in the manner described in para 

graphs 21, 22 , 22 - A ? 
4 - B . If the said corrupt practice is proved to have been committed by a 

person other than those mentioned was it committed in the interest 
of the returned candidate , and has the result of the election as regards 

him been materially affected ? 
5 - A , Were the corrupt practices of bribery ( Section 123 ( 1 ) ] were committed 

by the returned candidate or his election agent or any other person 
with the consent of either or both in the manner described in para 

graphs 23 and 23- A ? 
5 - B . If the said corrupt practices are proved to have been committed by a 

person other than mentioned before, were they committed in the 
interest of the returned candidate and was the result of the election as 

regards him materially affected thereby ? 
6 . Was the corrupt practice of obtaining or procuring the assistance of an 

alleged Government servant nargely Shri Gopi Nath Aman committed 
by respondent No . 1 ? 


178 


THE GAZE I TE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


(PA T II 


- - - - - - 


NOTE ( 1 ) - Shri Gopi Nath Aman was a Government servant at the 

material time is denied and the petitioner is to prove his allegation , 
( 2 ) As the agent or other person mentioned in the opening sentence of 

paragraph 24 has not been specified anywhere , the petitioner will 
not be able to prove the commission of this corrupt practice by any 

agent or any other person ], 
7 . Were the rules 18 ( 2 ) , 56 ( iii) (d ) of R . P , Act (Conduct of Election and 

Election Petitions) Rules , 1956 not complied with at the election and 
was the result of the election as regards the returned candidate 

materia , ly allected thereby ? 
8 - A . Was the corrupt practice of undue influence committed by the returned 

candidate by meeting out threaty of injury to the voters of Gurki 
Mandi, Nabi Karım and Andha Mughal ? ( paragraph 26 of the election 

petition ) . 
8 - B . Was the corrupt practice of undue influence committed by respondent 

No. l s election agent Shiv Charan Das Gupta by threatening voters 
in the locality of Andha Mughal and Nabi Karim ? ( para 27 - A of the 

election petition ). 
8 - C . Did Ch . Surat Singh and Shri R , N . Aggarwal exercised undue influence 

amounting to the commission of corrupt practice in Gurki-Mandi on 
or about 22nd March , 1957 in the interest of the returned candidate 
and did the commission of this practice materially affected the result 
of the election as regards the returned candidate ? (para 27 - A of the 

election petition ). 
8 - D . Did Shri Mangal Dass commit the corrupt practice of undue influence 

by threatening voters In Andha Mughal in the interest of the return 
ed candidate and was the result of the election as regards him 
materially affected ? ( para 27 - A of the election petition ) . 


8 - E Did Shri Amar Nath Chawla commit the corrupt practice of undue 

influence by threatening voters in the locality of Nabi Karlm in the 
Interest cf the returned candidate and was the result of the election 
a regards him materially affected . (para 27 - A of the clection 
petition ) . 


9 Was the corrupt practice of bribery committed by respondent No. 1 or by 

Shri Mangal Dass and Shri R , N . Aggarwal with his conscnt as des 

cribed in paragraph 28 and 28 - A of the petition ? 
(NOTH - Though it is not specifcally mentioned , reading thc two para 

graphs together make it clear that Mangal Dass and R . N . Aggarwal 
are alleged to have acted with the consent of the returned candi 
date . It is the interpretation which I place on the expression at 
the instance and on behalf of the said respondent No . 1 appearing 
in the paragraphs. The objection of this interpretation by respon 
dent No . 1 is not accepted ). 


5 . The petitioner examined 52 witnesses while respondent No. 1 produced 72 
witnesses including himself . Both sides adduced and relied upon a large number 
of documents in the form of letters, bill books, registers , photographs etc . On the 
close of the evidence of both sides , the Tribunal issued nctices to three persons 
namely Om Parkash Jain , Om Parkash Sharma and Brij Mohan u / s 99 of the 
R . P . Act to show cause by an order dated 12th August , 1958 reproduced as 
below : 
“ The evidence in the case has concluded and the petition ig ripe for argu 

ments . There are no less than 9 issues and one cannot say anything 
on any one of the issues at this stage without hearing the full dressed 
arguments of the learned counsel and the appraisal and assessment 
of the evidence adduced by both sides comprising of large number of 
documents as well as statements of no less than 124 witnesses 
examined in the case . But without incurring the risk of expression 
of opinion , much less any finding , when one digests the facts and cir 
cumstances relating to posters P . 1 and P . 2 admittedly printed in 
Gupta Printing Works and alleged to have been issued and published 
by Yuvak Samaj, Saddar Bazar , Delhi, on behalf of and in the name 
of Shri Om Parkash Sharma, Secretary, Yuvak Sama), pertaining to 
the personal character and conduct of Shri Shyama Charan Gupta , 


Sec. 9 ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959/MAGHA 4 , 1880 179 
- - - - - - 

- - - - 
respondent No, 2 ; one feels prima facie to call upon Shri Brij Mohan , 
formerly General Secretary, D . P . C . C ., Shri Om Parkash Jain and 
Shri Om Parkash Sharma, members of Yuvak Samaj to appear 
before the Tribunal and to show cause u / s 99 of the RP. Act as to 
why they should not be named in the decision for having indulged 
in the committal of corrupt practice as contemplated u / s 123 ( 4 ) of 
the R . P . Act , for the purpose of complete adjudication . The afore 
said three persons shall be deemed to have been impleaded as a party 
u / s 99 of the R . P . Art and shall have the opportunity to cross 
examine any of the witnesses who have deposed against them in the 
cage and to adduce evidence in defence, if so desired . I order 

accordingly . 
furthermore , in order to avoid delay in the proceedings and for the purpose 

of elucidation , Shri Des Raj. Proprietor , Gupta Printing Works in 
which posters Ex P . 1 and P . 2 were admittedly printed and Shri Om 

Parkash Sharma shall be summoned a court witnesses. 
In regard to the fixture of dates , as arguments are continuing in petition No . 

117 / 57 and the respondent has to take up the arguments tomcrrow , 
the 13th , the Tribunal shall remain occupied for a week or so in the 
other case . Shri Brij Mohan , Shri Om Parkash Sharma and Shri Om 
Parkash Jain mentioned above shall be summoned accordingly to 
Appear before the Tribunal, on 21st August , 1958 and the court wit 
nesscs on 22nd August , 1958 . Processes to be issued just today by 
court on the addresses on the record . A copy of the process shall be 
sent by registered post to ensure service and to avoid delay in the 

matter . To come up on 21st August, 1958 ." 
The newly added respondent in response to notices got some of the PW s , 
resummoned for further cross - examination and also produced evidence oral as 
well as documentary in defence , 

6 . Now before proceeding issue -wisc and entering into the discussion of the 
voluminous evidence relating to the issues, it is necessary as well as desirable 
to refer to standard of proof or say general principles governing the appraisal and 
assessment of the evidence required for the proof of corrupt practices in election 
cases. In this respect, Shri Ram Phal petitioner submitted that the proceedings 
are civil and not criminal and referred to Section 90 of the Act. It was argued 
that in the matter of trial, the provisions of Civil Procedure Code pre - eminently 
apply , of course , subject to the provisions of R . P . Act where it is so provided , 
Reliance was placed on a decision of the Election Tribunal, Aligarh in petition No. 
184 / 1957 Shen Dan Singh 2 5 . Kishori Ram Singh , and reference was made in 
particular to the observations of the Tribunal oť the Aligarh Tribunal on pages 20 
and 21 of its order wherein thc Tribunal observed as follows: 
" The proceedings before election Tribunal are purely civil in nature inag 

much as Section 83 ( C ) of the Act prescribes that the petition shall be 
signed by the petitioner and verllied in the manner laid down in the 
C . P . C . and that in sub - section ( 1 ) of Sec . 90 it has been expressly 
provided that every election petition shall be tried by the Tribunal 
as nearly as may be in accordance with the procedure applicable 
under the Code of Civil Procedure in the trial of sults and in sub 
section ( 2 ) of the same section , provisions of I. P . C . have been made 
applicable as well as the Tribunal has been given powers which are 
vested in a court under the C . P . C . for Jiscovery , inspection , attend 
ance of witnesses etc ." 


T he learned Tribunal concluded with the remark that when the entire proceed 
ings before the Election Tribunal partake the nature of civil guit, it is difficult to 
reconcile with the view that for assessment of evidence the standard of proof 
should be as in criminal cases, Reference was also made to the decisions of the 
Tribunals reported in XII, ELR , 34 in the case of Mast Ram and IV , ELR , 73 
( Sudhansu Sheikhar is. Standra Nath Vasu ) by Mr. Ram Phal and on the strength 
or this authority the petitioner maintained that the cases , in which standard of 
proof of criminal cases was at all applied were cases of bribery only . 

7 . On the other hand , Shri Chawla learned counsel for respondent No . 1 , argu 
ing in rcply asserted that Aligarh Tribunal s decision was erroneous and more 
over the facts also differed and are not applicable to the facts of this case . It 
was submitted that there is a universal rule that when corrupt practices are to be 
dealt with then the standard of proof would be like a criminal case , Reliance 
was placed on X ELR , 461, in the matter of Devasharan Sinha 29. Sheo Mahadev 


180 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[Parr II 


= 


= 


= 


= 


- - 


. . 


Prasad and others decided by Election Tribunal, Patna, ( 2 ) , 11 , ELR , 415 a deci 
sion of Election Tribunal Allahabad in the matter of Ganga Pershad Pathak vs. 
Salag fi am Jaiswal ( 3 ), VIII ELR , 105 in the matter of K . N . Gairola vs. Ganga 
Dhar and others wherein it was he. d that the onus is on the petitioner and it never 
shifts and the standard of proof is that of a criminal case . It was pointed out 
that the allegation in that case was one of undue influence, (4 ) , III, ELR , 488 18 
another decision in the matter of Jyostna Chander vs. Mehrab Ali and others , 
Election Tribunal, Gauhati, wherein , it was held that the standard of proof is that 
of criminal charge and the onus never shifts . Reference was made to some other 
cases embodied in Şen & Poddar, Election cases , pages 665 , 764 , 822 , 840 . Finally , 
reliance was placed on the Supreme Court decision reported in 1957 , S .C ., 444, In 
this case , their Lordships of the Supreme Court has observed that 


" It should not be forgotten that the charges of corrupt practices are quasi 

criminal in character and that the allegations relating to thein must 
be suſciently clear and precise to bring home the charges to the 
candidates and judged by that standard ." 


Mr. Chawla argued that in the Amended Act , only major corrupt practices have 
been retained and each entails penalty and as such they are to be treated as 
charges and should be brought home to the respondent as a criminal charge . The 
argument precisely is that it requires strict proof because the question of defran 
chisement is involved and some of the offences are penal , and as such the implica 
tion is that the petitioner is to prove to the hilt all the elements of the charges 
and that the onus never shifts . The counsel concluded that in the matter of strict 
rules of criminal charge and to bring home to the respondent , the petitioner can 
not absolve himself from this responsibility by merely saying that the respondent 
did not do this or that. 


8 . In the light of the above authority cited at the Bar , I think it is well settled 
by this time that corrupt practices are in the nature of a criminal charge and the 
proceedings are more in the nature of criminal than civil proceedings inasmuch as 
many corrupt practices are also offences in the I. P . C . This is correct that in 
Criminal Procedure the accused cannot be compelled to go into the witness box 
and there are other divergent provisions relating to the Civil Procedure Code 
which apply in the trial of election petitions. But the Act makes the corrupt prac 
tices as indictable offences as well, for instance , section 171 ( g ) of the Penal Code 
specifically refers to elections where the points required to be proved are ( 1 ) that 
an election was impending ( 2 ) that the accused made or published a statement 
( 3 ) that it purports to be a statement of fact ( 4 ) that it related to the personal 
character or conduct of the candidate ( 5 ) that it was published with intent to pre 
Judice the election and (6 ) that it was false or the accused had any reasonable 
ground for believing it to be true . It will be seen that all these ingredients consti 
tute the corrupt practice as laid down u / s 123 ( 4 ) of the Act which forms the 
main subject of controversy in this case , I am , therefore , of the considered opinion 
that the charges of corrupt practice in election are of quasi - criminal nature and 
the burden of proof lies on the petitioner to establish such charges beyond any 
doubt as held in VIII , ELR , 105 and XII , ELR , 107. On the top of it, this principle 
has been approved by the Supreme Court as mentioned above in a decision 
reported in A . I. R ., 1957 , S . C . 444 quoted above. The same view has been adopted 
in the dectsion of Jabalpur Tribunal in petition No . 1 (403 ) of 1957 Shri H . V . 
Kamath vs. Magan Lalpublished in Gazette of India , dated 5th February 1958 
upon which Shri Ram Phal has himself relied in relation to corrupt practice 
u / s 123 (4 ) of the Act . There is yet another principle which is to be born in mind 
in the appreciation of evidence and this is laid down in another Supreme Court 
decision , reported in IX , ELR , 231, ( Jagan Nath vs. Jaswant Singh ) viz . 


" It is well settled that the success of a candidate who has won at an elec 

tion should not be lightly interfered with though care has to be 
taken at the same time to safeguard the purity of the election pro 
cess and to see that the people do not get elected by Aagrant breaches 
of the law and corrupt practices. " 


9. This brings me to the issues which of course shall be adjudged in the light 
of the principles enunciated , above. 


Issue No . 1. 

This issue relates to the publication of posters Ex . P . 1 , P . 2 and P . 3 copies of 
which were attached with the petition as annexures A , B . C . The allegations made 


- 


- 


- 


- 


SFC. 3 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 181 

- - - 
in Ex . P .1 and P .2 as embodied in the petition in English rendering read as fol 
lows: 
( A ) Why does the respondent No . 2 hold out as B .A . with honours when 

he is only a Matriculate in English ? 
( B ) Why has the respondent No. 2 taken forcible possession of the R . S .S . 

godown ? 
( C ) Why is it said that respondent No , 2 has swallowed a large amount of 

RS. Ş . fund ? 
( D ) Why did respondent No. 2 go out of Delhi when his turn to proceed to 

Goa arrive on the excuse of some of his relatives being ill ? 
( E ) Why did respondent No. 2 misappropriate the sale proceeds of a jeep 

belonging to R . S . S . 
( F ) Why did respondent No . 2 accuse the displaced persons after having 

come to Delhi of having destroyed the entire culture and language 
of Delhi in a speech delivered by him at a public meeting at Ghazia 

bad ? 
( G ) Why should the public elect respondent No. 2 a worthless and cowardly 

person to the Parliament ? 
The heading of the poster is Khud shishe ke makan men balthen hain aur dusron 
per pathar phaink rahe hain and purports to have been signed and issued by Om 
Parkash Sharma as Secretary , Yuvak Sama), Saddar Bazar, Delhi. This poster 
was admittedly printed by Gupta Printing Works, Esplanade Road , Delhi and it 
was alleged inter -alia that the posters P . 1 in Hindi and P . 2 in Urdu were displayed 
in several places in the Delhi Saddar constituency. This issue No. 1 also relates 
to another poster alleged to have been printed by Gupta Printing 
Works and issued by a body known as Anti- Communal Front. This poster Ex . 
P . 3 is styled Rashtrapita Gandhi ki Hatya ctc, . It was alleged inter alia that this 
poster P . 3 furnished a clear suggestion to the public that respondent No . 2 was 
one of those who were directly or indirectly involved in the murder of Gandhiji. 
A copy of this poster was also annexed with the petition marked ( C ) . 

10 . Now this issue No. 1 has more than one phases and facets and the plethora 
of evidence coupled with the exuberance of the comments on the statements of 
witnesses in the course of lengthy arguments has all the more made it complex 
and complicated inasmuch as the full particulars regarding the publication of 
posters Ex P . 1 and P . 2 were not specifically set out in the petition initially and 
subsequently on amendment also only names of some persons were mentioned 
who were alleged to have been responsible for the publication of tliese posters . It 
was at the stage of evidence accordingly that a plot or conspiracy alleged to have 
been laid down in this connection was introduced by examining PWs. 36 . 37 & 38 . 
Similarly another factor about the admission of Joti Parshad , Proprietor, Gupta 
Printing Works giving out the names of real person or persons who were responsi 
ble for the publication during the talk with the Sub - Inspector , Tirath Ram at the 
time of search was also introduced after the amendment stage of the particulars 
of the petition . These factors brought on the record in the course of the evidence 
have thus given rise to various phases and facets as said above which shall have 
to be discussed and determined separately for the purpose of proper elucidation 
and understanding of the points involved in the issue . The other difficulty which 
presents itself is that the issue bristles with certain angularities as well as anamo 
lles when put to test in the light of the evidence adduced and the arguments 
advanced for and against. I would , therefore, propose to give a resume of the 
two different versions propounded by the two sides and then formulate the main 
points which warrant the decision of the Tribunal in the determination of this all 
Important Issue , 

11. In this context the story of the petitioner ; as culled and assembled from the 
facts given in the original petition as well as the amended petition in connection 
with the publication of posters P . 1 and P .2 relating to Shri Shyama Charan Gupta , 
respondent No. 2 as well as the evidence adduced and the lengthy arguments 
advanced by Shri Ram Phal, the petitioner , put in nut- shell is as follows: 

That some 10 or 12 days before the polling a meeting was held at the studio 
or Shri Gulzari Lal Chopra în Nabi Karim area which forms a part of the Delhi 
Saddar constituency in which respondent No. 1 , Shri Brahm Parkash along with 
Shri Shiv Charan Gupta , his Election Agent, Shri Brij Mohan , General Secretary , 
DPCC and Om Parkash Jain , a congress worker , participated and some speeches 
were also made and refreshments served P . W . 36 , Shri Vidya Rattan Soni. 
P . W . 37 Shri Des Raj Bhatia and P . W . 38 Dr. Ram Saran Dass also attended by 


- 


- - 


182 THE GVETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 / MAGHI 1, 1880 PART II 

- - - - 
invitation although they were admittedly not congress workers. That in this meet 
ing it so transpired that when tea and refreshments were served at about 9 pim , 
and respondent No. 1 requested those present to vote for him and expressed his 
desire to leave the placc ; persons sitting in the front row of chairs began to disper 
But P . W . 36 , P . W . 37 and P . W . 38 who were sitting in the back row coming from 
the back towards the door heard a talk between Shri Om Parkash Jain and Shri 
Shiv Charan Gupta who were a little ahead of them . That Ch , Brahm Parkash 
did not participate in the talk and the talk was between Shri Shiv Charan Gupta 
and Shri Oni Parkash Jain . The latter delivered a written paper to Shiv Charan 
Gupta who after having seen the paper which formed the subject matter of a 
poster asked Om Parkash Jain to give it to Shri Brij Mohan with the remark that 
Brij Mohan was quite well up in such matters and would get posters printed and 
published . That Shri Shiv Charan Gupta also advised its publication one or two 
days before the polling day and spoke aloud about some of the items mentioned in 
the manuscript relating to jeep and the spcech about the refugees . That on or 
about the 1st March 1957, posters P . 1 and P . 2 in Hindi and Urdu were published , 
and displayed at various places in the constituency under the signatures of Om 
Parkash Sharma, Secretary , Yuvak Samaj. That in point of fact the body of the 
name of Yuvak Samaj had never come into existance and Om Parkash Sharma 
was mentioned as pseudo name by those who were responsible for the publication 
of these posters, namely respondent No. 1, Shly Charan Gupta , election agent, 
Brij Mohan , General Secretary , DPCC , Shri Vas Dev , Office Secretary , DPCC , Shri 
um Parkash Jain and Om Parkash Bahl, congress workers, Shri Des Raj and Jati 
Pershad , partners of Gupta Printing Works. That Om Parkash Jain was actually 
found at about mid -night on the night of 1st March 1957 pasting the said posters 
on the walls as seen by Ram Chander Gocl ( P . W . 12 ) . That after election was 
over a complaint was lodged by Shri Shyama Charan Gupta through his counsel 
Shri Ram Thal Advocate, petitioner , in the court of Shri R L Sharina , Magistrate, 
1st Class , and a search warrant was obtained for the search of the premises of 
Gupta Printing Works where these posters were published . That during the 
search , Ex , P . 9, the manuscript was taken into possession by Suh - Inspector , Tirath 
Ram ( P . W . 4 ) in the presence of one Vidya Sagar , Manager , Upkari Cycle Works, 
( P . W . 34 ) , Shri Kidar Nath Sahni, election agent of respondent No. 2 ( P . W . 40 ) , 
Shri Shyama Charan Gupta ( P . W . 51) and Shri Ram Phal, petitioner ( P . W . 52 ) . 
It was also asserted that Toti Pershad and Des Raj Gupta gave out on the enquiry 
of S . I, Tirath Rani ( P . W . 4 ) that Om Parkash Jain and Brij Mohan had come to 
deliver the manuscript P , 9 to them and on the enquiry of Sayama Charan Gupta , 
Joti Pershad also stated that Brij Mohan had taken the responsibility of publica 
tion if it was taken objection to . That the bill No. 635 was actually prepared in 
the name of Pradesh Congress Committee , Delhi and was sent to the Delhi P . C . C . 
for payment under the signatures of Des Raj Gupta . That the payment of Rs. 35 / 
now shown to have been made partly by Om Parkash Sharma was fictitious and 
that D . P . C . C . was responsible for the publication oC these posters That Brij 
Mohan , General Secretary , DPCC convassed for respondent No 1 . That Ex . P . 9 , the 
manuscript is in the hand of Shri Brij Mohan as proved by Shri R . C . Goel 
( Ex . P . W . 12 ) and Shri Suraj Bhan ( P . W . 33 ) who also produced Ex , P . W . 33 / A 
and P . W ! 33 / B for the purpose of comparison , That the analytical study of these 
P . W . 33 / A and B with Ex P . 9 shows that they are in the hand of one and the 
same person . That this evidence comprising of the conspiracy laid down at the 
place of Gulzari Lal Chopra coupled with the admission of Joti Pershad at the 
time of the search in respect of the publication of the posters and the bill No . 635 
sent to the P . C . C ., Delhi and other evidence oral and documentary produced in 
support of the allegations establish that the corrupt practice in question was 
indulged committed by personis working as agent of respondent No 1 with his 
consent as contemplated u / s 123 ( 4 ) of the R . P . Act . 


12 . The counter version adumbrated by the respondent s side in the course of 
evidence and arguments of Mr. Chawla , learned counsel for respondent No. 1 is 
this --- That the contest as admitted by both sides was on party lines between 
two parties - - Congress and Jan Sangh . That the defeat of respondent No 2 , Vice 
President of Jan Sangh was taken as a defect of the party and the petition was 
lodged in order to vindicate the honour of the party through Shri Ram Phal, 
Advocate who has been working in the R . S . S . and is a member of the Jan Sangh 
as a spearhead of the party . That the petitioner Shri Ram Phal is also a close 
friend of respondent No. 2 es admitted by him in his deposition . That the Jan 
Sangh party on account of two groups in the organization was disintegrated at 
one time before the elections when Shri Mauli Chander Sharma and Shri Basent 
Rao Oak left the party along with a large number of dissidents on account of 
ideological differences and that the party of Shri Shyama Charan Gupta , respon 
dent No, 2 and that of Shri Balraj Khanna and Kidar Nath Sahnl remained in power . 


183 


Src . $ ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARI 24 . 1959 /MAGHI 4, 1880 
- - - - - - - = - - - - - 

- - - 

- - - 
That the dissidents including Shri Om Prakash Jain who has been incharge of & 
branch of RSS as Mukh Shikshak and Om Prakash Sharma, Phul Singh Saini 
and several others under the leadership of Shri Basant Rao Oak formed a separate 
party known as Democratic Front in the Arst instance. But on account of Shri Oak s 
rejoining the Jan Şangh other persons formed another body known as Yuvak 
Samaj for social uplift work in the year 1956 under the Presidentship of Shri Ram 
Kishen and Shri Om Parkash Sharma became the General Secretary, That 
Yuvak Samaj had an office and held several mectings and at tlines in the days of 
Jaundice and influenza epidemic rendered relief also by distributing medicines . That 
the members of this body who were aware of the shortcomings of Shri Shyama 
Charan Gupta thought of enlightening the public that he was not a desery .ng man 
and that for this purpose passed a resolution to issue a poster Ex , P . 1 and P , 2 
wherein the allegations were made which were not false and were believed to : 
be true. That the meeting held at the premises of Shri Gulzari Lal Chopra s 
studio was a congress worker s neeting of Nabi Karim area and was not open 
to the public , nor any refreshments were served . That in this meeting only 
respondent No . 1 Shri Brahm Parkash joined and Om Parkash Jain , Brij Mohan 
or Shri Shive Charan Gupta did not participate . That P . W . 36 Vidya Rattan 
Soni, P . W . 37 , Des Raj Bhatia and P . W . 38 Dr . Ram Saran Dass did not attend 
the meeting at all and the version given by them was absolutely false . That 
this false evidence was cooked up in order to prove the consent of election agent 
and still they did not dare to connect respondent No. 1 , Shri Brahm Parkash 
who was stated to have been away from the talk , That Brij Mohan was at a 
later stage introduced after the search because the bill was found to be in the 
name of D . P C . C . and on the basis of the bill the story was developed and 
t abricated in order to implicate Brij Mohan as an agent of respondent No. 1 . 
That the manuscript P 9 was a fictitious document and was planted at the 
premises of Gupta Printing Works as well as an imaginary talk was introduced 
by the petitioner and respondent No 2 with the collusion of Poti Pershad , a friend 
of respondent No. 2 and the assistance of Kidar Nath Sahni, Election Agent of 
respondent No . 2 and Vidya Sagar their own man . That this talk was not put 
to , much less supported by S .I . Tirath Ram to whom it was attributed . That 
the documents Ex . P . W . 33 / A , P . W . 33 / B and Ex . X were shoved in at a 
much later stage by the potitioner and are fabricated documents That they 
are not in the hand of Brij Mohan and the same have been fabricated in order 
to bloster up the case and to connect Brij Mohan and D . P . C . C . with the 
publication . That Brij Mohan was working in the oflice and had no time to 
move and even if he attended any mecting as alleged at Motia Khan , it was a 
public meeting and as such his attending that meeting has no bearing on the 
point of agency work of respondent No . 1 . That the contents of the posters were 
Supplicd by Om Parkash Jain as borne out from his deposition and other 
dissident Jan Sangh workers and they believed the contents to be true. Further 
more , regarding the falsity of the contents the onus of which lay upon the 
potitioner , was not at all established . The respondent s case was that Brij 
Mohan or Om Parkash Sharma and others were not his agents and that he did 
not indulge or commit any corrupt practice and the story of the petitioner was 
a cooked up story supported by fabricated and manufactured cvidence. 


13 . Now in view oť the fact that the points involved in issue No. 1, are more 
than one and were introduced stop by step in the course of evidence it is 
desirable to formulate these points in the form of sub - issues within the ambit 
of issue No. 1 ( A ) which is a comprehensive one for the purpose of proper 
understanding of the discussion : 


( 1) Whether or not any body of the name of Yuvak Samai existed and 

posters P . 1 and P . 2 were issued and published by Yuvak Samaj 
or this body has no existance ? 


( il ) Whether or not the alleged plot or the conspiracy at the place of 

Gulzari Lal Chopra was laid as introduced in evidence and relied 
upon by the petitioner and is proved on the record ? 


( iil) Whether the talk alleged to have been indulged during the search of 

Gupta Printing Press between the S . I. and Jotl Pershad or Des Raf 
proprietors, Gupta Printing Works is proved on the record ? 


( lv ) Whether P . 9 is proved to be in the handwriting of Brij Mohan by 

the evidence adduced in support of it and the circumstances relating 
to that ? 


184 


THE GAZETCE OF INDIA : JANUARY 21, 1959,MAGHA 4, 1880 


[PAAT U 


( v ) Whether Brij Mohan acted as a convassing agent and in his capacity 

as General Secretary of DPCC he is deemed to have acted as an 
agent as defined in explanation appended to Sec. 123 i. e . with the 
consent of the candidate in the matter of publication of posters 

P . 1 and P . 2 ? 
( vi) Whether Vas Dev , Office Secretary , DPCC , Om Parkash Jain , Om 

Parkash Bahl, Joti Pershad and Des Raj are deemed to have acted 
as agent of respondent No. 1 as defined in explanation appended 
to Sec, 123 R .P . Act in the matter of publication of posters P . 1 

and P . 2 . 
( vii) Whether the bill No . 635 in the name of DPCC makes the body 

responsible for the publication of P . 1 and P . 2 ?. 


( viii) Whether Ex . P . 3 a poster issued by Anti-Communist Front constitutes 

any corrupt practice as contemplated u / s 123 ( 4 ) of the R . P . Act ? 


Besides the above noted points , the legal aspect of the question involved 
shall also be considered with regard to law of agency as applicable within the 
purview of the amended Act as well as the question of consent as contemplated 
under the explanation appended to Sec. 123 of the Act and the necessary 
ingredients or elements constituting corrupt practice u / s 123 ( 4 ) of R . P . Act . 


14 . The petitioner Shri Ram Phal who is an Advocate argued the case himself 
and made very lengthy and elaborate arguments on this issue. The counsel took 
the Tribunal into the pleadings and the evidence adduced for and against in all 
its details and this laborious and lumbering discussion occupied the Tribunal for 
more than one month . The learned counsel however dealing with the statements 
of the witnesses touched more than one point simultaneously in a diffused and 
incoherent manner and as such it is difcult to incorporate the full rendering 
of the arguments of the learned counsel for both sides in the judgment. Of course , 
all the salient features of the arguments shall be dealt with at the proper place 
while dealing with the issues, 


15 . Now coming to the first sub -issue within the purview of issue No . 1 in 
respect of existence or non - existance of Yuvak Samaj, the allegation as embodied 
in paragraph 8 of the petition is that the posters were published in Nagri and 
Urdu character under the signatures of Om Parkash Sharma descrlbing himself 
as Mantri, Yuvak Samaj, Delhi, and printed by Gupta Printing Works and were 
pasted at several places in the Delhi Saddar constituency. In paragraph 11, 
furthermore, it was alleged that the said posters were published and circulated 
by respondent No. 1 or his election agent or other persons acting with the consent 
of respondent No. 1, and in the interest of the returned candidate Shri Brahm 
Parkash by said Om Parkash Sharma who is or was a member of the said 
congress party and or is pseudo name of respondent No. 1 and that the said 
posters were pasted at conspicuous places in the Delhi Saddar Parliamentary 
constituency . Lastly amended particulars are given in respect of P . 1 and P . 2 
in para 15 ( A ) of the amended petition and it was alleged that the posters in 
Hindi and Urdu were got printed and published under pseudo name of Shri Om 
Parkash Sarma, Mantri, Yuvak Samaj, Saddar Bazar and Anti Communal Front 
by Shri Brij Mohan , General Secretary, Shri Vasu Dev , Office Secy., D . P . C . C ., Shri 
Om Parkash Jain and Shri Om Parkash Bahl members of the congress party and 
active workers of respondent No. 1 and Shri Des Raj and Shri Joti Pershad , 
partners of Gupta Printing Works with the consent of respondent No . 1 and his 
election agent. It was submitted in the alternative that the said corrupt practices 
were committed in the interest: of the returned candidate by M / s Shiv Charan 
Gupta , Shri Brij Mohan , General Secretary , Shri Vas Dev , Office Secretary of 
the D . P . C . C ., Shri Om Parkash Jain and Shri Om Parkash Bahl members of the 
congress party and Shri Joti Pershad and Des Raj as mentioned above , so far 
it concerns respondent No. 1, and the result has been materially affected and , 
therefore , the election is vold . It will be seen that the particulars of the corrupt 
practice as mentioned in paragraph 8 of the petition were attributed to Om 
Parkash Sharma describing himself as Mantri, Yuvak Samaj. Delhi, and in para 
( 11 ) , Om Parkash Sharma was said to be a member of the congress party or 
a pseudo name of respondent No . 1 and lastly under para 15 ( A ) , the name of 
Om Parkash Sharma is mentioned only as a fictitious name, and the name of 
half a dozen persons of the congress party along with the proprietors of Gupta 
Printing Works are alleged to have been responsible for the publication of 
Ex P . 1 and P . 2 . The body of Yuvak Samaj or that of DPCC as bodies have not 
been specifically mentioned any where . Of course , the persons mentioned in 


Sr.c. (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 185 
- - - - - - - - - 
paragraph 15A have been mentioned with their official designations which they 
are alleged to have held at that time in the organizations. The Tribunal at the 
time of framing the issues , accordingly , gave a specific note underneath issue No . 
1 - A which reads as follows: 
" NOTE. The scope of issue No. 1 will be confined to the commission of 

corrupt practices by these persons mentioned in para 15 - A ." 
On these premises, the evidence is to be adjudged in the light of the arguments 
advanced by both sides . Shri Ram Phal Bansal in the course of arguments appears 
to have taken his stand on the allegations made lastly , i.e ., in paragraph 15 ( A ) 
and contended that Om Parkash Sharma to whom notice u / s 99 of the R . P . Act 
was given by the Tribunal to show cause was not the men who had actually got 
the posters printed as stated initially in the petition and that there was no such 
person as Om Parkash Sharma. It was only a pseudo name. The petitioner 
urged that at the time of search warrant in the criminal court, he was impleaded 
as a party on the basis of the poster and notice was sent through Gupta Printing 
Works but he was not traceable and it appears that there was no such man nor 
any Yuvak Samat. The argument precisely was that this Om Parkash Sharma 
block maker who has been examined before the Tribunal is not the Secretary of 
Yuvak Samaj nor any Samaj is in existance. Reference was made to the report 
of the Process server in the criminal court and it was argued that the man was 
not traceable . Reliance was placed on the statements of several P .Ws.. namely 
P . W . 2 Durga Pershad ; P . W . 11 Kishan Chand ; P . W . 12 Ram Chander Goel; W . D . 14 
Prem Lal; P . W . 17 Sham Lal; P . W . 18 Duli Chand ; P . W . 19 Om Parkash ; P . W . 20 
Ram Kishen ; P . W . 24 Danesh Kumar ; P . W . 51 Shri Ram Phal petitioner and 
P . W . 52 Shri Shyama Charan Gupta respondent No. 2 , and it was argued that 
these witnesses, ( some of whom live in the same illaqa ) have stated that there 
was no body of the name of Yuvak Samaj working in Saddar Bazar . Reference 
was also made to the statement of D . W . 12 who has stated in cross - examination 
that he is not aware who was the Secretary of Yuvak Samaj and cannot give the 
names of members of Yuvak Samaj as well as D . W . 17, D . W . 18 , D . W . 21, D . W . 40 ; 
D . W . 41 and D . W . 49 who have stated that they do not know any thing about 
Yuvak Samaj. 

17 . On the other hand, Shri Chawla arguing on behalf of respondent No . 1 
submitted that his cllent was, of course , not aware as to the working of the body 
of Yuvak Samaj but the statements of Om Parkash Jain , Om Parkash Sharma and 
Phul Singh Saini brought on the record furnish Inassaillable evidence that there 
were two groups in Jan Sangh party and at some stage one of the groups on ideolo 
gical differences left the Jan Sangh under the leadership of Shri Mauli Chander 
Sharma and Shri Başant Rao Oak and that a separate body of the name of 
Democratic Front was formed in the first instance and some of the workers of 
Saddar Bazar formed a body of the name of Yuvak Samat for social work . It 
was argued that Om Parkash Sharma who has appeared as his own witness and 
was subjected to lengthy cross - examination has given out the whole history how 
the body was formed and Om Parkash Jain examined as D . W . 68 earlier has also 
narrated the full circumstances under which this body came into existance and 
it worked in the days of jaundice epidemic as well as influenza when relief was 
provided to the sufferers through this body . Similarly Shri Phul Singh Saini who 
has been in the Jan Sangh and after having severed his connections with Jan 
Sangh become a member of Yuvak Samaj has also supported that the body of 
Yuvak Sama) was functioning and held meetings on more than one occasion . 


18 . Mr. Ram Phal however in reply denounced the sworn testimony of these 
dissidents of Jan Sangh on the plea that they are now in the congress fold and 
in the case of Om Parkash Jain in particular contended that he has been working 
during the days of elections for respondent No . 1 and had been coming to court 
even before he was impleaded as a party u / s 99 of the R . P . Act . Reference was 
also made to his conduct on the basis of some documentary evidence brought on the 
record after the close of all the evidence by way of separate applications that 
the evidence of Om Parkash Jain was tainted and unworthy of trust. This was 
of course admitted by the petitioner that Om Parkash Jain has been a member 
of Jan Sangh for a pretty long time and was expelled from the party for certain 
Teasons . Shri Shyama Charan Gupta , respondent No. 2 in his deposition also 
admitted that Om Parkash Jain has been in the R . S . S , and subsequently remained 
a member of Jan Sangh party but he was expelled on disciplinery action . In 
view of these circumstances , the statement of Om Parkash Jain may be received 
with some caution but the hard fact that he has been in the Jan Sangh and was 
one of the dissidents . his statement cannot be thrown out regarding the formation 
of a new party of dissidents of Jan Sangh under the name of Yuvak Samaj . This 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


us correct that in the determination of a point in dispute direct evidence adduced 
for and against is the best evidence but it is a truism that in cases where the 
evidence is conflicting as well as of partisan nature, human conduct and common 
course of natural events play an important role in the determination of sucb 
matters as enunciated u / s 114 of the Evidence Act . Now in this context it lg 
not intelligible as to why and how a fictitious name of a body was introdused 
and one Om Parkash Sharma was dubbed as the Secretary of Yuvak Samaj. 
When one conceives the namc of a body, it is not difficult to sponsor a body 
with the help of few persons who were agreeable to help the cause. Accordingly , 
the allegation of the petitioner namely that there was no body of the name of 
Yuvak Samaj and the name of Om Parkash Sharma was a pseudo name of res 
pondent No 1 and that the posters were issued and published by members of 
DPCC does not stand to reason ; inasmuch as the posters could have been issued 
under the name of 2 / 3 persons instead of any body it any such body was not 
in existance. It is common knowledge that during the days of elections several 
mush - room bodies spring up for some time and it is not beyond the range of possi 
bility that this body of the name of Yuvak Samaj was also tormed earlier in 1958 
by the dissident members of the Jan Sangh who had their own grudge against 
the party in power ( Jan Sangh ) whose nominee was Shri Shyama Charan Gupta , 
The statement of Om Parkash Sharma in this connection furnishes full detatls 
with regard to this body so far so that he has mentioned about the meetingx, the 
proceedings and the names of the office bearers as well as the resolution passed 
and the location of the office at his place. 

19 . Furthermore , it is also in evidence that Om Parkash Sharma was a 
Lamiliar worker of Jan Sangh and was known to Shri Shyama Charan Gupta 
respondent No. 2 from whose statement the operative and relevant portion is 
reproduced as below : 
" I do not know one Khanzan Singh who has a press in gali Umrao Singh . 

It is incorrect thai Khazan Singh had gone with me on the last 

hcaring. 
Note : — The witness on the question whether he knows Om Parkash was 

prevaricating as to who that Om Parkash Sharma was. When asked 
that the Om Parkash Sharma against whom notice u / s 99 R . P . Act 
has been issued stated 


I have known him for the last 4 / 5 years. I have known him because he 

lives at about 100 yards from my office and he has his office where he 
is working for block making and printing . It is just possible that 
my people may have taken some printing work from him . I have 
been in the Jan Sangh party since 1951. I have been holding offices 
in Jan Şangh . I am Vice President of the Delhi Praclesh Jan Sangh 
in these days. I know Shri Mauli Chander Sharma who was in 
Jan Sangh , Ile has been the President of All- India Jan Sangh party 
and has been working as General Secretary . He has resigncd but I 
do not know the reasons. It is not correct that there have been two 
groups in the Jan Sangh . There has been no enmass resignation of 
any group to my knowledge . It is absolutely wrong that Om Parkash 
Şharia had ever worked in Jan Sangh . I am not aware if Khazan 
Singh referred to above is real brother of Om Parkash Sharma or 
If he is in Jan Sangh . I do not know about the residence of Om 
Parkash Sharma. I know about his office as stated alove. It is 
incorrect that I had ever enrolled Om Parkash Sharma or his wife 
as members of Jan Sangh . " 


In contra -distinction to the above statement, Shri Om Parkash Sharma has 
stated as below : 
"Illve in Saddar Bazar . I have been living in Saddar Bazar for the last 

25 years. I carry on business at Saddar Bazar for the last 12 / 13 years . 
I am doing business in the name and style of Hind Black and Printing 
Works. I was brought on the roll of Jai Sangh party along with 
my wife on the persuation of Shri Om Parkash Jain and Shrt Shyama 
Charan Gupta in the year 1952 . I have been doing the work of the 
party for 2 / 3 years . Then I did not renew my membership for some 
years and stopped working with the party . Some other persons had 
also left the party including Mauli Chander Sharma. It was in 1956 
that another society was formed by some persons who had lot " Jan 
Sangh party and it was named Yuyak Samaj, Saddar Bazar, Delhi, 


SEC . 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959/MAGĦA 4, 1880 


187 


I was chosen as Secretary of Yuvak Samaj body . During the last 
general elections, Shri Shyama Charan Gupta was Jan Sangh candi 
date . The view of the Yuvak Samaj people was that Shyama Charan 
Gupta was not a deserving candidate for Lok Sabha and we opposed 
his candidature . The Yuvak Samaj issued a poster in order to give 
publicity to the short-comings of Shri Shyama Charan Gupta , Ex . P . 1 
Is the poster which was got printed in Gupta Printing Works under 
my name as Secretary of the Yuvak Samaj. All these items in 
number pertaining to the personal character of Shri Shyama Charan 
Gupta are correct." 


20. In the light of the above it follows that Om Parkash Sharma was not a 
psedunym but was already known to Shyama Charan Gupta , respondent No, 2 and 
the petitioner must have also known this fact because the petition was Aled on the 
approach of respondent No. 2 as well as with his consultation as admitted by the 
petitioner in his statement. There is yet another piece of evidence viz . a letter 
No, 33 sent by Sharma along with Rs. 35 / - towards part payment of the bill 
No. 635 (which forms the subject of another controversy about the payment of 
the bill of these posters ) written on a printed form in the name of Yuvak Samaj. 
Now this letter No. 33 was also produced by Shri Des Raj Gupta , Proprietor, Gupta 
Printing Works and as such It cannot be said to have been fabricated by respon 
dent s side, Be that as it may, it appears that the dissidents of Jan Şangh who 
had left the Jan Sangh party had formed a body of the name of Yuvak Samaj 
ana the members of that body conceived the idea either fur causing harm to the 
cause of Shyama Charan Gupta in his election campaign out of revenge and spite 
or for enlightening the voters and the public about the short- comings and 
antecedents of Shri Shyama Charan Gupta , respondent No. 2 , as they claim in 
their deposition . This aspect however shall be considered in regard to other 
particulars of the issue at the proper place and time presently . The hard fact 
accordingly which emerges out from all these circumstances and evidence is that 
there was a body of the name of Yuvak Samaj and Om Parkash Sharma was its 
Secretary . That body might have worked only for a few days as a mush _ room 
organization and may have secured the assistance of its sympathisers or the 
opponents of Jan Sangh . These questions however are yet to be answered . But 
to say that there was no body at all of the name of Yuvak Şamaj is in - compre 
hensible , moro especially in face of shifting positions taken up by the petitioner 
in the petition itself and the evidence of some of the D .Ws. viz ., D . W . 12 Ram Lal, 
a business -man of Kashmere Gate , Delhi, D . W . 21, P , R . Mittal, Proprietor, Mittal 
Manufacturing Co . Qarol Bagh , D . W . 32 , Hem Chand Jain , Cloth Merchant, Saddar 
Bazar , Delhi, and an Ex - M . L . A ., D . W . 52 Sultan Singh , a business -man of Saddar 
Bazar and D . W , 65 , Shri Lal Chand Vats , an Advocate of Delhi, The operative and 
relevant part of the statement of those witnesses is reproduced below for facility 
of reference - 


D . W . 13 (Sh , Ram Lal) . 
" To my best recollection , there was some such society , i.e . Yuvak Samaj 

but I am not aware of their activities . At one time, they approached 
me also to subcribe to their Samaj. It was sometime in 1956 I 
might have made some subscription . I am not definite but it is 
just possible that some of the dissidents might have joined them and 
they came to me as well." 


D .W 21 ( P . R . Mittal) : 
" There is a body named Yuvak Samaj, Saddar Bazar . I cannot say exactly 

who are persons running that body but Om Parkash Jain and Om 
Parkash Sharma are the workers of that body. I say that because 
they approached me for suhscription . Those persons to my knowledge 
were the supporters of Jan Sangh on previous occasions " 


D . W . 32 (Hem Chand Jain ) . 


" I have known that a body styled Ylivak Samaj was set up during 

the days of Elections and one of lis members approached me 
for donations but I did not pay anything and told him that their 
Ideology was different from my views To my knowledge the dissidents 
of Jan Sangh were working in Yuvak Samaj and I bcing a congress 
man did not wish to slipport then , Their once was somewhere in 
Saddar Bazár near Bara Tooti." 


188 


THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : JANUARY 21, 1959 / MAGHA 1, 1880 (Part II 
- - - - = — 

= - - = - 

= 
D . W . 52 (Sultan Singh ) . 
" I know that there is a body known as Yuvak Samaj functioning in Saddar 

Bazar . The office of the Yuvak Samaj is located in Bara Tuti Saddar. 
I know Shri Phool Singh Saini and Om Prakash Jain who were the 
chief workers of the organization . Once they came to me for flood 
relief fund in the year 1958 . Shri Om Parkash Jain was not working 
for respondent No. 1 . Usually , he maligned Shri Shyama Charan 

Gupta respondent No. 2 ." 
D . W . 65 ( Shri Lal Chand Vats ). 
" I cannot say whether there were any personal dillerences between Shyama 

Charan Gupta and Om Parkash Jain but they had ideological 
differences . So far I know Shri Om Parkash Jain is almost vocal in 
the expression of his views. There is a body of the name of Yuvak 
Samaj which started in 1956 . I cannot say whether that body was 
working in elections. The other active workers to my knowledge 
with Om Parkash Jain were Om Parkash Sharma and Phool Singh 
Saini. I do not know others . Some belonged to Youth Organization 
and others to Jan Sangh . I did not attend their office nor I was a 
member of Yuvak Samai Of course , I iccompanied Om Parkash 
Jain on 2 / 3 occasions for raising funds and I was responsible for raising 
contributions. I did not see their literature but he discussed the 

objects of Yuvak Samaj with me. " 
21. The above quoted testimony of some of the DWs is of positive nature and 
as such is of more provocative value as compared to the evidence of the negative 
and partisan nature of the P .Ws. referred to above . In the result, the sub - issue ( 1 ) 
regarding Yuvak Samaj as formulated above for the proper understanding of 
issue No 1 is answered in the affirmative and shall be treated accordingly in the 
course of duscussion on other sub - issues cf issue No, l. 
22 . Sub - issue No. ii. 
" whether or not the alleged plot or conspiracy at the place of Gulzari Lal 

Chopra was laid down as introduced in evidence and relied upon by 

the petitioner and is it proved on the record ? " 
It may be stated at the out- set that this part of the evidence was not mentioned 
in the petition either in the first Instance or even after amendment in paragraph 15A , 
The other factor to be noted in this connection is that this feature of the evidence 
was introduced at a late stage of the petitioner s evidence by P .Ws. 36 , 37 & 38 . 
The facts on this sub - issue have already been stated at the time of setting out the 
version of the petitioner with regard to issue No 1 and need not be recapitulated . 
Furthermore , the deposition of the three witnesses examined on this point will 
reveal the position as to what it is. In support of this , the argument of the 
petitioner , Shri Ram Phal was that ten or twelve days before the polling day , 
a meeting was held at the place of Guizari Lal Chopra in his studio in Nabi Karim 
and this meeting was also attended by P . W . 36, P . W . 37 and P . W . 38 . It was 
argued that these three witnesses namely Vidya Rattan Soni, Shri Des Raj Bhatla 
and Dr. Ram Saran Dass have definitely stated about the talk which had taken 
place between Shri Shiv Charan Gupta , Election Agent of Respondent No. 1 and 
Om Parkash Jain abcut the manuscript of the posters. Adverting to the defence 
version on this point, Shri Ram Phal refuted the statement of Gulzari Lal Chopra 
( D . W . 17 ) and others and dubbed them as interested persons. 


23. On the other hand , Shri Chawla , learned counsel for Respondent No. 1 
dilating upon this point in the course of his arguments vehemently contended that 
the story on the face of it is false and unbelievable inasmuch as such a talk 
rould not be hatched in a public meeting as alleged by the aforesaid PWs. It was 
argued that this was a clumsy attempt made by the petitioner to connect , Respon 
dent No. 1 or his electi n agent with the manuscript. The counsel proceeded that 
the depositions of the witnesses again are discrepant and there has been improve 
ment in the statement of these witnesses step by step . It was pointed out that 
one of the witnesses has stated that Shiv Charan Gupta and Respondent No. 1 and 
Mr. Jain arrived at the meeting together and the meeting commenced when they 
had come. The counsel contended that if they had come together the talk about 
the manuscript could have been safely made earlier instead of having made after 
the meeting in the presence of strangers as deposed by these witnesses. The 
argument was reinforced that according to their statement, this talk was communi 
cated to Durga Pershad ( P . W . 2 ) but no question was put to Durga Pershad . 


Sec . ) ( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959/MAGHA 4 , 1880 


189 


When he was examined in October 1957 i. e . two months earlier to the recording 
of the statement of these witnesses in December , 1957 the learned counsel 
( cacluded that some of the persons mentioned to have been pr sent at the time 
of the meeting were also examined as DWs namely Gulzari Lal Chopra ( D . W . 17 ) , 
Vas Dev ( D . W . 24 ) and Jiwan Singh ( D . W 3 ) and they not only repudiated but 
Cetegorically refuted the story given by these witnesses , 

24. Before considering and analysing the significance of the question , it may 
well be considered in the light of the version given by the thrce witnesses on 
their face value. Shri Vidya Rattan Soni P . W . 36 states in the examination - in 
chief that , 
" While I came from the back side towards the door, respondent No. 1 , 

Shiv Charan Gupta and Om Prakash Jain were going a little ahead 
of me. I hçard their talk , Brij Mohan , Genl. Sccy , of the congress 
was with respondent No. 1. I heard their talk , Ch . Brahm Parkash 
did not participate in the talk , The talk took place between Shly 
Charan Gupta and Om Parkash Jain . Om Parkash Jain delivered 
a written paper to Shiv Churan Gupta. Shiy Charan Gupta saw the 
paper which was the subjert matter of a poster and asked Om 
Parkash Jain to give it to Brji Mohan saying that he is quite well up 
in such matters and he would get posters printed and published . On 
reading the subject matter of the poster , he appreciated it and 
advisor its publication one or two days before the polling day . On 
reading the subject matter of the paper, Shri Shiy Charan Gupta 
had said aloud that its contents had also related to the jeep and 
the specch about refugees. The poster related to respondent No . 2 . 

The meeting dispersed at 10 - 30 p .m . I stayed there till the last." 
In cross -examination , he has stated that there were 80 / 85 guests present in 
the meeting . That he did not know who organized the tea party . That Murari 
Lal Billa called him at about 6 p .m . and that he did not attend any other func 
tion during the election . He had no personal relation with Brij Mohan or Shiv 
Charan Gupta and that he had heard this tall< while they were still in the shop 
and only 10 / 15 persons were left in the shop when the nlk took place and other 
guests had gone away. That Gulzari Lal Chopra was near and Des Raj Bhatia , 
Murari Lal, Kharaiti Lal Narula and Jiwan Singh were also quite ncar him . 
Furthermore , in cross - examination , this witness has stated that in April or May , 
1957, the petitioner Shri Ram Phal met him in the broar and said that he had 
Aled an election petition and he wanted to know if certain posters were displayed 
in the locality . He ( the witness ) disclosed that he had heard a talk which relat 
ed to a poster which subsequently appeared . P . W . 37 Des Raj another witness 
on the point stated as below : 
" I attended that meeting. About 70 / 75 persons attended the meeting. I 

do not know who convened the meeting. I reached in the meeting 
at about 9 - 15 p . m . It had already commenced and the refreshments 
were being served. Among those who had attended the meeting 
were S . Jiwan Singh . Brahm Parkash , Shiv Charan Gupta , Om 
Parkash Jain , Shri Brij Mohan , Kharaiti Lal Narula , Murari Lal and 
Puran Chand . The meeting dispersed and people began to leave . 
About ten to fifteen persons only were left. Om Parkash Jain took 
out a manuscript of a poster and showed it to Shiv Charan Gupta and 
Shiv Charan Gupta on reading the matter said that the points relat 
ing to the refugees and jeep would prove quite effective, Shri Gupta 
Asked Om Parkash Jain to give the manuscript to Shri Brit Mohan And 
that Om Parkash Jain and Brij Mohan were to arrange for its print 

ing and publication . I remained at the place till the end ," 
In cross - examination , this witness has stated that he did not work for any 
candidate during the last elections. He did not take part in any meeting or any 
propaganda work of any party except the meeting referred to above. That he 
was not invited to any other meeting with which respondent No. 1 was connect 
ed . That he learnt that the mecting had been called by the congress workers 
but he did not know who had arranged for the refreshments . That he knew 
the petitioner for the last 3 years and the petitioner had helped to raise subs 
cription of the Hari Mandir School and that he is the manager of the Hari Mandir 
School, That he did not disrinse the contents of this evidence to any person 
except the petitioner in his office 5 / 6 months ago . That he had looked up the 
manuscript shown to Mr. Shiv Charan Gupta by Om Parkash Jain from à dis 
tance. He was unable to say if the manuscript which he had seen was the one 
Ex . P . 9 shown to him in court . He did not remember whether the paper of the 
manuscript was white or coloured . That respondent No. 1, Shri Brahm Parkash 


190 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 [PART I 
= = 
had not read the manuscript and he could not say whether respondent No 1 had 
heard the talk because he was ahead and was at a distance of about 15 steps 
where the talk took place 
The third witness Dr Ram Saran Dass PW 38 stated as under — 
"Gulzarı Lal Chopra had come to me to extend the invitation Amongst 

the persons who attended the meeting I can mention the names of 
Des Raj Bhatia , Mr Soni, Murari Lal Billa , Lekh Raj my father, etc 
The meeting commenced at 9pm Mr Shiv Charan Guptu spoke and 
asked for support of respondent No l s candidature Meeting lasted 
till 10 pm The specches were finished in half an hour and then 
followed the service of tea and refreshments to those present After 
the mecting had dispersed , I heard Om Parkash Jain talking to Mr 
Shiv Charan Gupta Mr Jain showed the poster to Mr Gupta and 
suggested that such a poster should be got printed and published 
Guptaji rcad the manuscript aloud and I heard He asked Mr Jain 
to get it printed I know Mi Om Parkash Jain He was just present 
in court The manuscript related to respondent No 2 and the 
allegations were made therein about his being Matriculate only , his 
connection with RSS , misappropriation of jeep belonging to RSS 
and RSS funds and a speech about refugees delivered by him at 
Ghaziabad 


In cross -examination this witness has stated that except the one public meet 
ing mentioned above he did not attend any other meeting during the elections 
That he had shifted to Lalpatnagar where he stayed for about 6 months and 
returned to locality Nabi Karim 10 / 12 days before the polling as he had not 
found suitable place in Lajpatnagar That he is a clerk of Pt Harikishen 
Bhargava , Advocate That Shiv Choran Gupta , Brij Mohan , respondent No 1 
and Mr Jain arrived at the meeting together The meeting commenced after 
they had come That the manuscript was on a full scape sheet of white paper , 
It was written in Hindi script That he did not read the manuscript himself 
That he could not say the manuscript consisted of one or more sheets and he 
did not remember if it was written on one side of the paper nor he could 
identify the manuscript Both Shiy Charan Gupta and Brji Mohan asked Om 
Parkash Jain to get the paper printed No other person present participated in 
the talk He returned from the meeting at about 10 - 30 pm and did not mention 
about this meeting to respondent No 2 He however mentioned this to Shri 
Durga Parshad The petitioner had asked me to give evidence before the peti 
tion was fled and the petitioner had asked me to appear in court on 30th Decem 
ber , 1957 


25 Now on the perusal and close scrutiny of these depositions, it is significant 
to note that so far the place of meeting , the time and the names of the persons 
on the side of respondent No 1 are concerned , the statements made by the 
witnesses in the examination - in - chief are consistent but in the cross - examination , 
which cannot be ant cipated , the divergence in the testimony of the witnesses 
and the anamolies giving risc to that are so glaring that it is difficult to reconcile 
Firstly , Mr Vidya Rattan PW 36 states that Shiv Charan Gupta told Om Parkash 
Jair to give the manuscript to Bri1 Mohan who is well up in these matters for 
the purpose of printing while Dr Ram Saran Dass PW 38 has stated that Shiv 
Charan Gupta asked Om Parkash Jain to get it printed Secondly , that the 
matter was read out loudly and commented upon by Shiv Charan Gupta appears 
to be highly improbable Thirdly , all the three witnesses admit that they are 
members of Hari Mandir Bal Pathshala and the petitioner Shri Ram Phal had 
helped them for raising subscriptions for the pathshala Fourthly , the circumns 
tances in which they are asked to appear in court as revealed from their state . 
ments are of dubious nature anù also reflect on the veracity of their depositions 
Fifthly , no question was put to Durga Pershad (PW 2 ) referred to in the state 
ment of these witnesses when he was examined on this point in October, 1957 
This is also indicative of the fact that the story was not conceived at earlier 
stage and wus engineerer with a purpose at a later stage of the evidence Sixthly , 
the names of these witnesses PWs 36 , 37 & 38 were not mentioned in the list 
of witnesses Aled in the first instance on 20th September 1957 and they were 
Added in the royred list of 11th October 1957 Seventhly Shri Gulzari Lal 
Chopra at whose place meeting was held emphatically asserted that Shri Vidya 
Rattan , Des Ray Bhatia and Dr Ram Saron Dass were not present at the meeting 
For all these reasons, it would be nothing short of stultifying oneself to believe 
or accept the story which for all intents and purposes was got up in order to 
connect Shly Charan Gupta , the election agent, with the publication of posters 
P 1 anr P 2 , if not the respondent No I himself 


Sec . $ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959/MAGHA 4 , 1880 


191 


26 . Sub - issue No. ( iii) . 
" Whether the talk at the time of the scarch between the S . I. and Joti 

Pershad or Des Raj, Proprietors Gupta Printing Works has any 

basis and is proved on the record ." 
This is by itself provides another fact of the petitioner s version in connection 
with the poster Ex . P . 1 and P . 2 . This talk also does not And any place in the 
allegations made either in the first instance in para 8 to 15 or in the amended 
application by the addition of para 15A . This aspect of the issue has also been 
introduced at a later stage when P . W . 34 Vidya Sagar was examined in December , 
1957 and is again to be scrutinised as done in the case of sub - issue ( ii ) with the 
statement of Tirath Ram , Sub - Inspector ( P . W . 4 ) who was examined like Durga 
Pershad ( P . W . 2 ) referred to in sub - issue No. ( ii ) in October , 1957. The talk 
is alleged to have taken place on the cnquiry of S . I, Tirath Ram from Joti 
Pershad at the time of search which took place on 1st April. 1957, in persuance 
of a complaint Aled in the court of Shri R . L . Sharma, by Shri Shyama Charan 
Gupta , respondent No , 2 . The deposition of Tirath Ram ( P . W . 4 ) is conspicuously 
silent about this talk . No question was put as to whether he had at all questioned 
the proprietors as to who had delivered the manuscript in the press for printing. 
But in December . 1957, two months after Shri Vidya Sagar one of the Attesting 
witnesses on Ex . P . 5 , the recovery memo, deposed that there was a talk between 
the S .I. and Joti Pershad whercin Mr. Joti Pershad told the S . I. that the manus 
cript was delivered by Om Parkash Jain and Brij Mohan , The operative part 
of the statement of this witness on this point is reproduced as below : 
" The search was carried out in my prescnce . Kidar Nath Şahni another 

attesting witness was also there . The documents mentioned in the 
memo were recovered and taken into possession . 


The recovered papers were produced by Joti Pershad . Des Raj had traced 

them . At the time of bringing the paper , Des Raj had said about 
the original manuscript that Brij Mohan and Om Parkash Jain 

congress wallas had delivered them to us and we printed the posters ." 
in cross - cxamination , this witness has stated that Sehdev Malhotra is his 
brother who was elected on Jan Sangh ticket and has been a member of D . M .C . 
Delhi since 1951. That his brother was twice clected on Jan Sangh ticket . Of 
course , he was not associated with Jan Sangh . The witness has further stated 
in cross - examination that Sehdev Malhotra is the sole proprietor of Upkari Cycle 
Works of which he is a manager employee. That he had gone to the press on 
seeing a crowd and he was neither a member of the search party nor he was 
specially called to be a witness . That the party had already entered the press 
and the table to mect customers lay near the gate and they were sitting there . 
That about 10 / 15 persons collected outside the press , That Des Raj had said 
about the manuscript in the presence of many people including those who attest 
ed the recovery memo and the police officers. The SI, had also heard it . That 
Joti Pershad simply repeated what Des Raj had said about the manuscript and 
Des Raj had himself volunteered information about the manuscript. That he 
did not have any previous occasion to witness & search . The other witness Kidar 
Nath Sahni ( P . W 40 ) on this point states as below : 
" The recovery memo Ex . P . 5 was prepared at the premises of Gupta 

Printing Press . Other persons also afixed the signatures on it in 
my presence , L , Joti Pershad and Des Raj were present at the press , 
Mr. Des Raj produced the manuscript Ex . P . before the police 
OMfcer . In answer to an enquiry by the police officer, Mr. Des Raj 
told him that the manuscript had been delivered to the press by 
Mr. Brij Mohan , General Secretary and Om Parkash Jain for print 
ing , and that usually Brij Mohan delivered to the press subject mat 

ters for printing ?" 
In cross - examination , the witness has stated that he shifted from Jullundur 
to Delhi in 1954 and was a member of Jan Sangh at Jullundur since its incep 
tion in July 1951. That the press was not searched . It is incorrect that Joti 
Pershad brought out only the relevant papers mentioned in the warrant . It was 
only after the manuscript relevant to the purpose had been found out from the 
bundle of papers that the police officer asked L . Joti Pershad as to who had given 
these papers to the press. That Mr. Vidy i Sagar was also standing near the 
gate, along with others and he cannot say if he heard the talk which took place 
between the police officer and the proprietors . That the talk took place while 
they were near another table lying within a distance of about 10 feet from the 
gate . That Vidya Sagar was not called and he saw him among persons present 
outside the gate . He asked him to attest this memo, 


192 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[PART 


Now it will be seen from the deposition of these witnesses that the two state 
ments run contrary . Mr. Vidya Sagar says that it was Des Raj who of his own 
accord gave the information while Kidar Nath states that it was given on the 
enquiry of the S .I. Tirath Ram . According to the deposition of Mr. Kidar Nath 
who was the election agent of Shri Shyamu Charan Gupta , respondent No . 2 and 
General Secretary of Delhi Pradesh Bhartiya Jan Sangh , Vidya Sagar P . W . 34 
was not called and he was present outside the gate and was asked to attest the 
memo. Vidya Sagar admits that he is the brother of Sehdey Malhotra who is 
in the Jan Sangh party and was returned as member of the Municipality on Jan 
Sangh ticket and appears to have been introduced as a convenient witness . 
Besides these two witnesses , the petitioner cxamined as P . W . 51 and respondent 
No. 2 , Shri Shyama Charan Gupta examined as P . W . 52 have also deposed about 
this talk in question . The petitioner Shri Ram Phal ( on page 1049 ) deposing on 
this part has stated as below : 
" During the production of the posters and the bill books, S . I. Tirath Ram 

asked Shri Des Raj who had got the posters printed . HC replied that 
he had printed them at the instance of Shri Brij Mohan , General 
Secretary , D . P . C . C . and Shri Om Parkash Jain of Saddar Bazar who 
gave the manuscript to him and who generally asked the press for 
the printing of such posters on behalf of the congress. In answer 
to an enquiry of Mr. Kidar Nath Sahni that the posters were defa 
matory in character , L . Joti Pershad informed him that he had point 
ed it out to Mr. Brij Mohan who had brought the poster and manus 
cript and he had taken full responsibility for the consequences even 
in respect of owning it in a court, if necessary . He also showed the 
bill book in which a bill for the posters in the name of D . P . C . C , had 
been made out by the press . L , Joti Pershad further stated that the 

manuscript P . 9 was in the handwriting of Brij Mohan himself" . 
Shri Shyama Charan Gupta , respondent No. 2, who also deposed about this 
talk has stated as below : 
" I instituted a criminal complaint u / s 500 I, P . C , in the court of Shri R . L , 

Sharma, Magistrate , tot Class , Delhi, in respect of the defamatory 
allegations made in the posters Ex . P . 1 and P . 2 against Shri Joti 
Pershad of Gupta Printing Works and one Om Parkash Sharma on 
Ist April, 1957. I applied for the issue of a search warrant for the 
relevant documents reported to be in possession of the press. It 
was obtained on the same day and S . I. Tirath Ram was entrusted 
with its execution by Kotwal, P . S . Fountain , S . I. Tirath Ram accom 
panied by two police oficials , Mr. Ram Phal petitioner and myself 
left the P . S . at 12 noon to go to the press . 


During the proceedings , a talk between S . I . Tirath Ram and L , Joti Pershad 

took place . The S . I. asked him as to how he had printed the posters 
and he replied that Shri Brij Mohan , General Secretary of the con 
gręgs and Mr. Om Parkash had gone to him and instructed him to 
print and he complied . I also explained to Joti Pershad that he had 
known me for long and the contents of the posters were defamatory 
and what made him to print them . He replied that Brij Mohan had 
taken full responsibility that the manuscript was in his handwriting 
with which he was acquainted , Mr. Des Raj showed the bill book 
to me hy way of further assurance saying that it was made in the 
name of the D . P . C . C . The carbon copy of the bill in the bill book 
shown to me is P . 11. I also took a poster Ex . P . 3 though it was not 

mentioned in the search warrant with the consent of Joti Pershad ." 
This witness in cross- examination has stated that none of them wcre searched 
before they entered the press . That the A . S . I. Jooked at the posters as they were 
turning and he did not handle the flies and the manuscript or the posters at any 
stage . That he did not ask the A . Ş . I. to record the talk he had with L . Joti 
Pershad . That he was present when the statement of ASI, was recorded in 
the present proceedings. He did not cross -examine him on this point. That he 
got a photostat copy prepared of the memo with other documents and had read 
the recovery memo in the court of Shri R . L . Sharma after the A . S . I. had Alled it. 
That he had read the draft of the petition after it had been Aled in court. That 
the petitioner had conşulted him when he was called upon to amend the petition 
but he did not read the final draft of the amended petition . That he did not talk 
about the desirability of the talk which took place between the S . I. and Joti 


SEC 3 (11 )] TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 193 

- - - 
Pershad at the time of the recovery in the petition or the amended petition . It 
wus however decided that the recovery proceedings including the talk should be 
brought on the record , Mr. Shyama Charan Gupta in his cross - examination 
further proceeded which may be quoted in his own words: 


" It was however decided that the recovery proceedings including the talk 

should be brought on the record . I told the petitioner that it must 
be brought on the record . I have no idea as to when we agreed 
upon this course whether before or after the evidence began to be 
recorded . I cannot say if the talk at which this decision was taken 
took place before or after the evidence of S . I. was recorded or that 
It was taken before or after L . Joti Pershad was summoned . We 
did not hold any consultation about producing L . Joti Pershad . I 
did not go to any witness or L . Joti Pershad during the present 
proceedings . I am taking interest in the prosecution of the petition ." 


27. Now even a casual glance at the statements of the petitioner and Shri 
Shyama Charan Gupta , respondent No. 2 , indicates that the introduction of this 
talk into the evidence on the asking of respondent No 2 at a late stage, was an 
aftermath of consultation as how to connect Brij Mulien with Ex , P . 4 . Shri 
Shyama Charan Gupta admits in his deposition that he cannot say as to whether 
this was decided after Tirath Ram was examined or Joti Pershad was summoned . 
" The other glaring discrepancy in the statement of these two witnesses Nog . 51 
and 52 and that of Kidar Nath Sahni, the election agent P . W . 40 , 
is that according to the statement of Kidar Nath , it was Des Raj who gave 
this information but according to the statement of these two witnesses, it was 
L . Joti Pershad from whom enquiry was made by the S . I. The petitioner and 
respondent No. 2 moreover have gone further and have stated of Joti Pershad 
Thaving told them manuscript P . 9 was in the handwriting of Brli Mohan . 
This information by itself appears to be highly improbable and altogether unintel 
ligible for the simple reason that an enquiry about the delivery of manuscript 
may be understandable but to ask Joti Pershad for information as to who had 
written it normally does not stand to reason . At any rate , Des Raj Gupta , one 
of the proprietors of Gupta Printing Works who was not summoned by either 
side and was examined as a court witness and as such can be safely presumed as 
a disinterested witness, has emphatically denied any enquiry having been made 
by the S . I. or any talk having taken place between the proprietors and the S . I. 

The operative part of his statement at page 1711 of the file may well be reproduc 
ted as follows: 
"" The S . I. told us that there was a search warrant for the search of some 

posters. I brought out a bundle and placed it on the table . The 
bundle was checked out by Shyama Charan Gupta and S . I. and 
they brought out the manuscript P . 9 . This was the manuscript 
which was taken out of the bundle . This was taken by the s . I . 
into possession . There was no talk betwcen the SI, and my brother 
about the manuscript. It is incorrect that there was any talk about 
the manuscript P . 9 that it was in the hand of Brij Mohan or Shyama 
Charan Gupta , respondent No. 2 told him that why Gupta Printing 
Works had printed this matter against him , and my brother or mysell 
had replied that as Shri Brij Mohan took the responsibility so we got 
it printed , I again fay, there was no such talk . I have known 
Shri Shyama Charan Gupta . I had seen him that day and had taken 
no work from him . This is not correct that besides the aforesaid 
reference to Shri Shyama Charan Gupta , any talk about the manu 

script took place even before others." 
Taking all these factors into consideration coupled with the belated introduc 
tion of this talk which was not put into question to Shri Tirath Ram S . I. examin 
ed earlier and the position disclosed by Shri Shyama Charan Gupta in the state 
ment as to how and when it was thought necessary to bring in this evidence , it 
seems clear to me that this part of evidence was an after - thought and has been 
designedly introduced in order to connect Brij Mohan with the publication of 
the posters P . 1 and P . 2 . The other ground for this appears to be that on the 
production of the bill No. 635 which was found in the name of DPCC , the idea 
might have been conceived to establish some connection with the General Secre 
tary in charge of DPCC , Delhi and Bal Patshala people viz ., PWs 36 , 37 and 38 
placed their services at the disposal of the petitioner to meet the needful. At 
any rate , this sub - issue is not proved by any cogent and satisfactory evidence 
end is replied accordingly . 


194 


- L 


ow - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 ( PART IT 

- 

- 

- 
28. Sub - issue No. ( IV ) . 
" Whether P . 9 is proved to be in the handwriting of Brij Mohan by the 

evidence adduced in support of it and the circumstances relating to 


that." 


This allegation relating to Ex . P . 9 having been in the handwriting of Brij 
Mohan was also not mentioned in the petition initially or cven after the amend 
ment by the addition of para 15A , This is correct that Brij Mohan s name along 
with other office bearers of DPCC as well as Proprietors of Gupta Printing Works 
was mentioned in para 15A but it was nowhere specifically stated that Ex , P . 9 
was in the handwriting of Brij Mohan . In the course of the evidence , Bill 
Mohan was summoned on behalf of the petitioner in the first instancc but for 
one reason or the other was dropped . Shri Ram Phal arguing on this point 
contended that it was Brij Mohan who had written the manuscript P . 9 and that 
his name has been specifcally mentioned in para 16A of the petition . It was 
stressed that an application was made to call upon Brij Mohan to give his speci 
men handwriting and he was served but Brij Mohan did not attend , on the plea 
of illness and a medical certificate was sent. He was resummoned but he was 
reported to have been out and not available . In these circumstances. he was . 
dropped . The counsel submitted that the circumstances under which he was not 
examined by the petitioner may be looked into coupled with the circumstance 
that Brij Mohan failed to give his own handwriting when he was examined as 
DW on behalf of respondent No. 1 . It was argued that the next course left to 
the petitioner in order to prove the handwriting in question was by other 
evidence and in this connection , D . W . 12 Ram Chander Goel and P . W . 33 Suraj 
Bhan were examined . Shri Ram Chander Goel stated that he was the class 
fellow of Brij Mohan and could identify his handwriting . Dr. Suraj Bhan ( P . W . 
33 ) who ( also produced two letters sent to him by Brij Mohan written on 
Praja Weekly form ) also averred that he could indentify his handwriting . Both 
the witnesses deposcd that Ex . P . 9 was in the handwriting of Brij Mohan , and 
that after the issue of notice u / s . 99 to Shri Brij Mohan , it was for him to rebut 
the evidence adduced against him and to give his handwriting which he again 
did not do and contented to examine two witnesses who did not produce any 
document of his hand. It was stressed by the learned counsel that in case Brij 
Mohan had been frank and truthful he could have offered his handwriting him 
self for comparison by the court cven if expert opinion may not have been 
sought but he did not do that. Reliance was also placed on another document 
Ax . X which is on a form of DPCC and it was argued that this letter purports 
to have been sent by Brij Mohan but he has also denied that the same was in 
his hand . Shri Ram Phal also drew the attention of the Tribunal to the original 
manuscript and whilc reading it pointed out the various words and lines having 
been scored off and substituted by other words. It was maintained that the sig 
nature and the address of Om Parkash Sharma encircled in red in Ex . P . 9 is 
also in the hand of the same person who had written the above writing. Speci 
fic reference was made to the word congress and Brahm Parkash substituted 
by other words , 

29 . On the other hand , Shri Chawla lcarned counsel for respondent No . 1 
dilating upon this point in rcply argued that when this fact was made known 
on 1st April 1957, at the time of search to the petition as well as respondent 
No. 2 , viz ., that Brij Mohan was the scribe this must have mentioned at the time 
of filing of petition in April, 1957 or even at the time of the amendment of the 
particulars in July , 1957. In the absence of any such reference in the petition , 
the counsel urged that the evidence of any one of the witnesses on this point 
has no evidential value. The learned counscd argued upon this point at some 
length and submitted that there was intervening period in between 7th March , 
1957 when the result was announced and 1st April, 1957, when the search for 
the manuscript was conducted by the S . I. at the premises of Gupta Printing 
Works, and the petitioner and his associates were at pains creating false evidence 
which can be safely inferred from the statements of the witnesses examined in 
this connection . Mr. Chawla laid great stress on the statement of Tirath Ram 
S . I . (PW 4 ) wherein he has stated that when the warrants were shown to Joti 
Pershad , he produced 2 posters, one manuscript and a bill book . It was urged 
that this part of the statement shows that every thing was already prepared and 
it was handed over to the s . I. when he came. The counsel pleaded that the 
innovation of the talk referred to in the statement of Vidya Sagar ( P . W . 34 ) and 
others examined in December . 1957. was not at all put ot Tirath Ram who was 
examined earlier in October . The argument precisely was that Joti Pershad 
was agreeable to Shyama Charan Gupta and that Ex . P . 9 , fabricated document 
was showed in by Shyama Charan Gupta and produced by Joti Pershad when 
the search warrant was shown by the S . I. to him . Replying to the argumente 


$ ec. (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1989 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


195 


of the petitioner that Brij Mohan had failed to give his specimen handwriting 
Mr. Chawla contended that an application was made by the petitioner on 20th 
September, 1957 , for summoning Brij Mohan . But on 14th Octobe . , 1957, he 
made another application to summon some witnesses as court witnesses and 
this list included the name of Brij Mohan . The application of 14th October , 
1957, for calling a large number of witnesses including Brij Mohan was however 
rejected by the then Member of the Tribunal and the petitioner again on 1st 
November, 1957, filed a revised list of witnesses in which Brij Mohan was not 
mentioned . It was urged that this procedure shows that the petitioner was not 
serious and it was only just to show that Brij Mohan was summoned once and 
then left out. The petitioner accordingly resorted to another method of proving 
the signatures as laid down in thc Evidence Act summoning Shri Goyal P . W . 12 
and procucing Dr. Suraj Bhan P . W , 33 of his own accord and as such he cannot 
take advantage of the circumstance that Brij Mohan who had fallen ill avoided 
to appear. Mr. Chawla proceeded that the witnesses cxamined to prove the 
handwriting of Brij Mohan , namely Ram Chander Goel and Dr. Suraj Bhan , are 
both unworthy of trust ; as borne out by their depositions. The counsel argued 
that Shri Ram Chander Goel has given his age to bc 25 at the time of his deposi 
tion in court and in cross - examination at page 908 of the file has stated that he 
was the class fellow of Brij Mohan in the 8th or 9th class , but had little occasion 
to meet him after school days. Mr. Chawla contended that it was absurd to 
suggest on the side of the petitioner that Ram Chander Goel could possibly 
indentify the handwriting of Brij Mohan on the strength of having seen Brij 
Mohan writing ten years back in a school. It was urged that even the expert 
opinion is not conclusive and how this witness Ram Chander Gocl can possibly 
say anything about the handwriting of Brij Mohan when he was a boy . The 
counsel concluded that this evidence has no evidential value and the witness 
has purjered himself outright. Dilating upon the deposition of Suraj Bhan 
( PW 33 ) , Mr. Chawala submitted that this witness was not mentioned in the 
list of witnesses filed by the petitioner , and was brought in haphazardly in the 
middle of evidencc . Further more Ex . P . W . 33 / A and Ex P . W . 33 / B do not con 
tain any matter to be preserved in the normal course because these document did 
not involve any liability or could serve any purpose . The witness Suraj Bhan 
is moveover inimical to Brij Mohan because he has not been able to realize his 
decreetal amount from Brij Mohan . The learned counsel contended that the 
identification of the handwriting of Brij Mohan by Suraj Bhan is again belied 
by thc further statement wherein Suraj Bhan has also stated that document 
No. 22 , a manuscript of some other poster , is also in the handwriting of Brij 
Mohan , whereas No. 22 is a document bearing the seal of DPCC and a manuscript 
proved to have been written by R . S . Yadav , Office Secretary . Similarly , Dr . 
Suraj Bhan has failed to indentity the handwriting at No. 21, 24 manuscripts 
of the posters produced by Des Raj which have bech proved by persons who 
wrote them and in these circumstances , it would be too much to give him the 
credit of identifying Ex . P . 9 . The counsel concluded that these documents 
Ex . P . W . 33 / A and B alleged to be in the hand of Brij Mohan are not genuine 
and this evidence has been fabricated with the collusion of Dr. Suraj Bhan by 
the petitioner and respondent No. 2 , Shyama Charan Gupta . The argument was 
reinformed that the pctitioner and his associates were in possession of the 
photostat copies of Ex . P . 9 and this evidence must have been manufactured . 
Adverting to Ex . X another document relied unon by the petitioner , Mr. Chawla 
argued that this document is dated 16th June , 1957; but this was not put to Brij 
Mohan at the time of his deposition on 23rd July , 1958 and was brought on the 
record subsequently without disclosing as to how and wherefrom this was obtain 
ed by the petitioner or respondent No. 2 . It was urged that this too was an after 
thought and this document may have been manufactured like Ex . P . W . 33 / A 
and P . W . 33 / B by the same person . It was next argued that this letter Ex , X 
was a letter addressed to Smt. Sucheta Kriplani styled as didi and it is not 
understandable as to how it was preserved by her and as to how and why she 
gave it to the petitioner for bringing it on the record . The learned counsel re 
plying to thc assertion of the petitioner and his witnesses that Joti Pershad had 
at the time of search stated that P . 9 was in the handwriting of Brij Mohan , sub 
mitted that Joti Pershad as borne out by the record was summoned by he peti 
tioner but was left out because he was not prepared to state the story which was 
subsequently stated by Vidya Sagar ( P . W . 34 ) , Kidar Nath ( P . W . 40 ) and 
petitioner ( P . W . 51 ) and Shyama Charan Gupta ( P . W . 52 ) . Regarding the analy 
tical study of the documents Ex . P , W . 33 / A and B with Ex . P . 9 thc manuscript 
in question , Mr. Chawla submitted that under the provisions of Sec , 73 of the 
Evidence Act, such comparison cannot be made in the eyes of law . It was argued 
that the word used in Sec. 73 is purport which indicates that the writing which 
is to be compared must purport to have been written by the man and the writing 
must show it as such . The argument exactly is that the writing Ex . P . 9 purports 


106 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 [PARE 11 

= 
to be in the hand of Om Parkash Sharma and docs not show that it is in the hand 
of Brij Mohan and as such Sec. 73 is not applicable . Mr. Chawla also referred to 
the other part of Sec . 73 ( 2 ) of the Eyidence Act and submitted that in part ( 2 ) 
power is given no doubt to the court to take the signatures and handwriting of 
tre person of his own accord but when Brij Mohan has been left out by the 
pctitioner himself and the respondent examined him in defence, the handwriting 
Of Brij Mohan could not be sent to any expert at the expense of the respondent. 
The court also could not do so of his own accord because the parties did not 
avail of it. Mr. Chawla contended that in these circumstances , the alleged grie 
vance of the petitioner that Brij Mohan failed to offer his handwriting when he 
was served with a notice u / s. 99 of the Act in rebuttal was of no consequence. In 
this connection , Mr. Chawla next argued that the notice u / s. 99 of the Act did 
not raise any presumption against Brij Mohan because it is more or less a notice 
on the analogy of Sec. 204 of the Criminal Procedure Code and it does not mean 
that there was any prima facie casc against him which he had to rebut. The 
counsel urged that no duty was cast on Brij Mohan to rebut or to give hand 
writing in defence of his own accord . In these circumstances , the counsel con 
cluded that there was no proof on the record that the handwriting Ex. P . 9 is 
in the hand of Brij Mohan because it cannot be compared u / s. 73 of the Evidence 
Act and the evidence adduced for the purpose of comparison namely of P . W . 12 
and P . W . 33 is of no avail. Lastly , it was urged that even if the court could 
compare it in the light of para ( 2 ) of Sec . 73 of the Evidence Act, it would not 
improve the position because this type of evidence is most dangerous and unsatis 
factory and the court cannot play the role of an expert. The learned counsel 
emphasised that even if any handwriting had been taken after the defence evi 
dence for the purpose of comparision by an expert, there would have been no 
limit because that evidence was again to be rebutted by the respondent which 
procedure was not permissible in the eye of law . Reliance was placed on a 
decision of Privy Council reported in 1928 P . C . 227 at page 281 and 1941 Lahore, 
401, at page 413 (AIR ) . 

30. Now on the appreciation of the arguments of both sides which have been 
reproduced above in extenso , the question indeed appears to be an involved one . 
But in view of the fact that the whole argument of both side has been made a 
part of the judgement, I do not propose to discuss the same in all its details and 
taking broad view , I am of the considered opinion that the version put by Mr. 
Chawla , learned counsel for respondent as to the planting of P . 9 with the assis 
tance of Joti Pershad by the petitioner and Shyama Charan Gupta in order to 
get it recovered at the time of scarch does not prevail. It is hard to believe that 
Joti Pershad who was prosecuted u / s . 500 IPC could have been a party to the 
planting earlier of Ex . P . 9 in order to get it recovered on search from his pre 
mises . Secondly it does not stand to reason that Joti Pershad and Des Raj Gupta 
proprietors of the Gupta Printing Works who were receiving large number of 
orders from the congress and are said to be congressmen , should have chosen to 
implicate Brij Mohan who happened to be the General Secretary of DPCC at that 
time. These circumstnaces speak by themselves and I am not prepared to accept 
the argument of Mr. Chawla that P . 9 was planted with the collusion and the com 
plicity of Joti Pershad or Des Raj. Regarding P . W . 33 / A and P . W . 33 / B pro 
duced by Suraj Bhan , it is again problematic whether the petitioner and respon 
dent No . 2 could have manufactured these documents with the assistance of Suraj 
Bhan P . W . 33 in order to create evidence for the purpose of comparison of P . 9 
and conceived a subject matter of a cheque which was not to be cashed . At the 
same time it also presents difculty to believe that a cheque mentioned in P . W . 
33 / A and B was issued by Dr. Suraj Bhan in 1950 which was not to be cashed 
and still the two letters have been preserved for the last 8 years. The sub 
ject matter also is not normal namely that Brij Mohan had no account in any 
bank and wanted a cheque for somebody and in order to mect that demand got a 
chequc on the understanding that he would deposit the amount of Rs. 400 himself. 
He actually did not deposit the money nor got the cheque cashed and the two 
letters alleged to have been written by him on two different occasions are still 
prescrved by Dr. Suraj Bhan , although the transaction did not take any tangible 
form . It has therefore , been somewhat dificult to adjudge as to whether these 
documents have now been febricated in order to avail the evidence of Suraj 
Bhan for the purpose of comparison of P , 9 or have been preserved by Dr. Suraj 
Bhan for the last 10 years . One circumstance of course is significant that Dr. 
Suraj Bhan was not mentioned in the list of witnesses and was produced abruptly 
at a later stage wlien 38 witnesses had already been examined . Secondly , Ex . 
P . 9 , the manuscript reads equally good with or without substituted words and this 
shows a purpose behind it. Thirdly , why Brij Mohan should write first mention 
ing respondent No . 1 and then congress and send it to Press in this form . Fourthly , 
the story of the manuscript shown to Shiv Charan Gupta in the meeting held at 
the studio of Gulzari Lal Chopra has already been found Actitious and if Ex , P . 9 


SEC. 9 (11) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 / MAGHIA 4, 1880 

197 
MAS 
is that then Brij Mohan cannot be the scribe by any stretch of reasoning. Be 
that as it may , the impression that this part of evidence has left upon me is that 
there are serious doubts and grave suspicions about the knowledge of Ex , P . 9 
by some one from the congress side and it was with this impression that notices 
u / s 99 of the Act were issued to Brij Mohan , Om Parkash Sharma, and Om 
Parkash Jain by the Tribunal at the close of the evidence of both sides. But 
the petitioner by his own evidence of a plot or conspiracy which he appears to 
have introduced out of anxiety to connect either respondent No . 1 or his election 
agent with the publication has belied his own version upon which he relied ini 
tially in the petition itself. The very allegation that a certain document was 
already prepared by Om Parkash Jain and others and was shown for the first 
time 10 / 12 days before the polling in the meeting which was held at the place 
of Gulzari Lal Chopra ( according to the respondent of congress workers and 
according to the petitioner a public one ) clinches the sub - issue that document P . 9 
was already prepared and written by somebody, i. e . by Om Parkash Jain and 
his companions. The evidence of P . Ws. 36 , 37 & 38 that the manuscript was 
on 2 pages , was in Hindi and the allegations read out aloud being identical with 
Ex . P . i corroborates that the manuscript was already prepared before it was 
shown to Shiv Charan Gupta by Om Parkash Jain and recommended for publica 
tion by Brij Mohan . Next the stand taken by the petitioner in the petition and 
in arguments viz . that Brij Mohan was the pioneer or one who conceived to have 
issued a poster in the ficticious and pseudo name of Om Parkash Sharma on 
behalf of D . P . C . C . is negatived by the story disclosed by P .Ws. 36 , 37 & 38 and 
relied upon by the petitioner as P . W . 51 and exonerates Brij Mohan from the 
liability of being the scribe, of the manuscript . It is again significant to note 
that some of the words have been scored oft and substituted . The words in the 
manuscript " congress substituted by chanao and congress substituted by 
virodhi as well as a linę Shri Brahm Parkash ke bare men scored off, and 
substituted by durson betray and reveal a tell tale story , and it appears some 
one had written this poster bracketing Brahm Parkash but somebody suggested 
to substitute some other words in order to make it a party contest. In case 
that Brij Mohun was responsible for this , it could not have happened according 
to natural conduct and events . Furthermore to say that the substituted words 
as well as the original are all in one hand , also does not stand to reason and 
have no meaning . The allegations published in the poster ( 6 or 7 in number ) 
moreover are all such which presumably and apparently were in the knowledge 
of those who had been the associates of respondent No . 2 , Shyama Charan Gupta , 
and knew about these matters . It cannot accordingly be the work of Brij Mohan 
or D . P . C . C . by itself as alleged in the petition treating Om Parkash Sharma a 
pseudonym and Yuvak Samaj non -existent altogether . 

Coming to another controvertial point of note referring the matter for the 
opinion of an expert, this is correct that the hand -writing of Brij Mohan was not 
obtained at one stage or the other , Initially , the onus was on the petitioner 
and he failed as shown in the arguments of respondent No. 1 to examine Brij 
Mohan as P . W . and by making a request to the court to call him as a court witness 
which the then member of the Tribunal did not agree . Similarly , at a later 
stage, an attempt was made when Brij Mohan was examined as a D . W . on behalf 
of respondent No . 1. This attempt proved futile because the respondent took 
exception to it and the petitioner did not come forward to incur the expenses of 
the expert by sending the handwriting on petitioner s behalf when evidence had 
already closed . So far the Tribunal is concerned , the matter was left till the 
conclusion of the defence evidence as stated in my order dated 12th August 1958 by 
virtue of which notices u / s 99 of the Act were issued and it was left to Brij 
Mohan to rebut the evidence but he too contented to refute it by the same type 
of evidence namely producing two witnesses who had been working with him 
as journalists and had occasions to see his handwriting more often than not to depose 
that P . 9 was not in his handwriting. Of course these gentlemen , Shri Khem 
Chand Suman ( R . W . 3 ) and Shri Mahavir Adhikari ( R . W .4 ) did not produce any 
documents in the handwriting of Brij Mohan from their possession but I see no 
reason to disbelieve them that they had occasions to have seen Brij Mohan s 
handwriting when they were working in the press . It appears that Brij Mohan 
also contended to rebut the evidence of Ram Chander Goel and Dr. Suraj Bhan 
by another set of witnesses examined on his bchalt, with equation . The other 
question which falls for consideration is that of the applicability of Section 73 
of the Evidence Act. The principle involved u / s 73 of the Evidence Act is that 
the admitted or the proved writing, signature etc , may be compared with the 
writing , signature etc , which either purports or is alleged to have been written 
or made by a particular person , Jankin Ç . J . in Brijdra Kumar, reported in 37 , 
Calcutta , page 467 ( I. L . R . ) held that this section requires that the dispụted writing 
must purport to have been written by the person to whom it is attributed , 1. e . 
to say that the writing itselt must state or indicate that it was written by that 


198 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 / MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[PART II 


person . According to this interpretation it is not competent to a court under 
the first paragraph of the section to compare with an admitted or proved writing , 
another writing which does not purport to have been written by a particular 
person , but is alleged 10 be in any person s handwriting. Mr, Chawla relied 
upon this interpretation and it cannot be said whether this is the only interpre 
tation that can be put and whether the yiew was adopted by other high courts 
also than Calcutta . At any rate , the word purport has some significance and this 
Ex , P . 9 purports to have been written by Om Parkash Sharma who again in 
his deposition has stated that this Ex . P . 9 is not in his handwriting. In this 
sense , it does not purport to have been written by any body . There is yet another 
aspect of the question viz . that Ex , P . 9 was not the document which was shown 
by Om Parkash Jain to Shiy Charan Gupta in the meeting held at the place 
of Gulzari Lal Chopra and this document according to the petitioner s version 
was written by Brij Mohan . Herein , again it looks absurd that Brij Mohan who 
is credited to be a journalist and well -versed in writing to have written first 
different words when the conspiracy had already been laid and then scored them 
off and substituted other words . It follows that the writing in question was 
written by some one but some words were not approved by another person and 
were substituted by certain other words. This , as observed above, could only 
happen when the document was actually written by the dissident menbers of 
the Jan Sangh namely Om Parkash Jain and Om Parkash Sharma, Phul Singh 
Saini and others as borne out from their depositions and subsequently , on the 
advice of somebody some words were changed and the matter was sent to the 
press . The whole dificulty that confronts is as to who is the scribe of the manus 
cript. The petitioner attributed and sought to connect Brij Mohan by the intro 
duction of the evidence of P .Ws. 36 , 37 & 38 who are alleged to have attended 
the mceting at Gulzari Lal Chopra s place. That story has been held to be got- up 
and fictitious one and as such the petitioner s assertion regarding the handwriting 
is belied and falsified by his own evidence produced at a later stage. At any 
rate , it is not proved by any precise and conclusive evidence necessary in the 
matter of corrupt practice as held by their Lordships of Supreme Court in 1957, 
S . C ., 444 , quoted above and sheer suspicions cannot form a substitute for legal 
proof. This sub - issue also must fail and the same is decided against the petitioner . 
31 . Sub -Issue No. (V ) . 
" Whether Brij Mohan acted as a canvassing agent and in his capacity as 

Genl. Secy ., D . P . C . C . he is deemed to have acted as agent as defined 
in explanation appended to Sec. 123 R . P . Act i. e . with the consent 

of the candidate ." 
In this respect, in para 15A , Brij Mohan of course was mentioned specifically 
and in the course of evidence the allegation was sought to be proved by witnesses 
that he acted as canvassing agent of respondent No. 1. The petitioner took his 
stand on 3 different allegations. Firstly , that Brij Mohan rcpresented the candi 
dature of Brahm Parkash respondent No. 1 in his capacity as General Secy . 
Secondly that in the course of election campaign , he made speeches at various 
places in support of the candidature of respondent No. 1 . Thirdly that he can 
vassed for votes for respondent No. 1 . Regarding the first allegation against Brij 
Mohan that he attended a meeting called by the Chief Electoral Oficer and 
that he sent a letter intimating that respondent No. 1 was standing as a congress 
candidate from Delhi Saddar constituency. It was sought to argue by the peti 
tioner that this indicates his interest in the candidature of respondent No. 1, 
Brahm Parkash . Shri Chawla in reply contended that so far the meeting con 
vened by the Chief Electoral Officer and attended by Brij Mohan was concerned , 
it is borne out from the deposition of Shri Hans Raj, Chief Electoral Officer 
( P . W . 3 ) that three meetings were held in this connection . The first was held 
on 29th December , 1956 , the second on 17th November , 1957 and the third on 
11th February , 1957. Out of these Brij Mohan attended only first meeting and 
this was before the nomination papers were Aled . In this meeting, the counsel 
submitted , Brij Mohan represented the congress as a party and gave the names 
of all the congress nominees in his capacity as General Secretary of D . P . C . C . 
and as such it is wrong to say that he acted for respondent No. 1, The other 
two meetings of 17th January, 1957 and 11th February , 1957 were not attended 
by Brit Mohan yide Ex , P . W . 3 / 3 and P . W . 3 / 4 , and the allegation is pointless. 
The next allegation against Brij Mohan was that Brij Mohan attended and 
addressed sone meetings during the days of election . Shri Ram Phal in this 
connection relied upon the statements of P .Ws. 2 , 24, 29 & 42 who deposed that 
they had seen Brij Mohan having attended and addressed the meeting . Mr. 
Chawla on behalf of the respondent submitted that the election was between 
parties i.e . Congress and Jan Sangh and the evidence adduced is to be judged and 
appreciated in this light. Coming to the witnesses , it was argued that Shri Durga 
Dass ( P . W . 2 ) is the Secy . of the Jan Sangh Mandal Committee and he worked 


Sec . 3 (11) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


199 


for Jan Sangh candidate . He stated that he had been attending election meet 
ngs and he attended one meeting held at Lakar Mandi where Brij Mohan also 
spoke and a purse was presented to him . Mr. Chawla contended that Lakar 
Mandi in the first place is not in this constituency and secondly it was a public 
meeting which was attended by all the Congress candidates in a party meeting 
and attendance in party meeting was no violation of the Act because in the 
amended Act schedule IV has been deleted and party meetings are not considered 
the meeting of any one candidate , Mr. Chawla further argued that this witness 
P . W . 3 in cross - examination admits that he offered himself as a witness on read 
ing the petition . It shows that he was for Jan Sangh and his evidence is of a 
biased nature , P . W . 24 is Dunesh Kumar who has stated that some one told him 
that Brij Mohan had addressed the meeting . This evidence is clearly of a hearsay 
nature and is not admissible . This witness also lives in Jawaharnagar at a dis 
tance of 6 miles and is a member of Jan Sangh . Mr. Chawla submitted that 
the evidence is tainted and prejudiced . P . W . 29 Nand Kishore Seth has stated 
that he attended one of the meetings in which Brij Mohan had spoken . Mr. 
Chawla criticising his statement urged that his evidence is also of partisan nature 
because this witness had at one time gone on a hunger strike to unite the Hindu 
parties. P . W . 42 Om Parkash s / o Harbans Lal udmits that Lachmi Ram is his 
first cousin who is in the R . Ş . S . and who attends shakhas and that he works 
at his shop . The whole argument of Shri Chawla in this connection was that 
in the first place, the evidence relied upon by the petitioner was of partisan nature 
and is not believable . Secondly , even if Brij Mohan had attended any meeting 
those were public meetings. Even if for the sake of argument it may be taken 
that he attended any public meeting held in the furtherance of the party that 
does not fall within the mischief of election law . It was argued that in the light 
of the amendment of 1956 by the deletion of schedule IV as borne out irom the 
remarks of Mr. Pataskar in the debate in Parliament, meetings held on behalf 
of the party could not be taken to have been held in the interest of respondent 
No, 1. Reliance was placed on a decision of the Punjab High Court reported in 
XIV , ELR , 105 . Mr. Chawla also referred to the evidence adduced on behalf of 
respondent and particular reference was made to the evidence of P .Ws. 20 , 67, 49 
and 72 and several other D .Ws, who belong to various parts of the constituency 
and have stated that Brij Mohan had never come in their illaqa for canvassing. 
Reference was also made to the meeting held at Hauz Qazi and addressed by 
Shri Pant. The counsel submitted that Brij Mohan was not present as deposed 
by D .Ws, including Smt. Shushila Mohan ( D . W . 28 ) , President of the City Congress 
Committee and the convener of that meeting as well as D . W , 19, Ganpat Rai, an 
honorary Magistrate and a business -man , Shri Milkhi Ram D . W , 86 , a press 
reporter also states that he did not see Brij Mohan in that meeting. In the alter 
nate , it was submitted that it was also a party meeting addressed by a high 
dignatory of the position of Home Minister and even if Brij Mohan had gone , it 
cannot be said that he had canvassed for respondent No. 1, by attending that 
meeting. On the top of it, the meeting addressed by Shri Pant was in the consti 
tuency of Shri Radha Raman and not in Saddar constitucncy . The counsel con 
cluded that this type of evidence has no evidential value and is pointless . Advert 
ing to the presentation of a purse , Mr. Chawla submitted that that meeting was held 
at Lakar Mandi, Motia Khan , which is not in Saddar constituency and as borne 
out by the evidence on the record , the meeting was attended by all the Congress 
nominees and was a party meeting in which a purse was prcsentcd to the General 
Secretary . Replying to the controversy as to whether Brij Mohan made any 
speech or only paid thanks, Mr. Chawla submitted that one can say a few words 
even paying thanks but even if he had said some thing about the achievements 
of Congress , it was of no consequence, Now the evidence discussed above is 
manifestly of general nature and tainted one and as such wholly insufficient to 
establish that Brij Mohan worked and canvassed for respondent No. 1, exclusively 
as suggested by the petitioner. I hold accordingly . 


32 . Regarding the second part of the sub - issue as to whether Brij Mohan is 
deemed to have acted as an agent as defined in explanation to Sec. 123 of the 
Act on account of the activities referred to above, the argument of the petitioner 
was on the point of agency . It was argued that the word agent has a wider 
scope in the election law as compared to one given in the law of contract and 
declaration and authorisation is not necessary and the agency can be established 
by circumstances arising out of the general features of each case . The petitioner 
relied on III, ELR , 198 in the matter of " T . C . Bissappa vs. Nigappal and some 
more decisions reported in Doabias Election cases , Volume I in the matter of 
Abdul Razak Vs. Hazi Mohd . Ismail and Doabias elcction cases , Volume II in 
the matter of Mohd. Haq Niwaz ys , Malak Khan , page 313 , as well as Hussain 
Bhai Abdul Bhai vs. Mohd . Ibrahim Harun Zaffar, page 225 , Syed Mahmud 
Shah vs. Ghulam Samad , page 311, Lattu Ram vs. Lal Chand , page 242 ( 244 ) . 
Reliance was also placed on 1955 , N . U . C ., No. 5800 , in the matter of Mathai 


200 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 / MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[PART II 


Mathew vs. K . C . Abraham corresponding to 1955 A . I. R ., page 378. It was argued 
that when an official of a certain association works on the principles of the asso 
ciation , he will be taken as agent, more especially when the election was fought 
on party basis . In the above noted cases reported in Doabias Election Cases, 
Volumes I and II, the observations of the Tribunals are on the fact of knowledge 
and the activities tending to promote a candidate s election . It was lield that 
it a candidate having knowledge of the activities of a person working for him 
docs not disown them , then he will be construed to have the knowledge of the 
activities and connivance was proved . Mr. Ram Phal further contended that 
the word agent has been defined in explanation to Séc. 123 but Sec . 123 1 $ 
again to be read with Sec. 100 which has two parts ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) . The counsel 
proceeded that sub - section ( 2 ) is to be read with sub - section ( 1 ) and the provi 
sions of sub - section ( 2 ) come into play when any allegation has been taken on 
the elements which constitutes sub - section ( 2 ) of Sec . 100 . The argument pre 
asely was that the respondent has not taken a stand on any of the elements given 
in clauses ( a ) , (b ) , ( c ) and ( d ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of Sec . 100 of the Act and as 
such he cannot take the advantage of those namely that the corrupt practice was 
committed contrary to the orders of the candidate or his election agent and elec 
tion was free from any corrupt practice, and that the candidate took reasonable 
Incans for preventing commission of corrupt practices or that corrupt practices 
were of trivial and limited character etc. The petitioner submitted in this rcs 
[pect that according to the interpretation of statutes, when the conditions are not 
pleaded , then the advantage contemplated under Sub - sec . ( 2 ) cannot be given 
to the respondent No. 1, On the point of interpretation of statutes rellance was 
placed on 1957, Andhra , 414 ; 1957, Bombay , 78 ; 1957, Punjab Law Report, 454, and 
at was argued that it is the duty of the judge to construe the statute in such a 
manner that no part of it was superfluous. It was next argued that according 
to the principle of interpretation propounded in these rulings, the substance 18 
that the mischief should be avoided and the remedy should be advanced. Shri 
Ram Phal on the strength of the authority quoted above submitted that in the 
absence of the conditions enumerated in Sub - Sec. ( 2 ) of Sec . 100 of the Act having 
been urged or raised by the respondent, the onus of consent was upon the res 
pondent. No further argument was made on the point of consent nor any autho 
rity was cited that the onus was not on the petitioner to prove the consent in 
order to constitute agency as contemplated in the explanation appended to Sec . 123 
of the Act. 

On the other hand , Shri Chawla respondent s counsel argung on the legal 
aspect on the point of agency and consent submitted that agency in the old Act 
was referred to in Sec . 79 of the Act but in 1956 in the amended Act, the defini 
tion of agency u / s 79 was deleted and explanation was added to Sec. 123 in the 
new Act. This change in the amended Act, the counsel argued , has its repercus 
sion on Sec . 100 also inasmuch as in the old Act the word agent was also used 
but in the new Act u / $ 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) the word agent has not been used and the 
word connivance has been substituted by consent . It was urged that the word 

connivance which has no specific connotation has been replaced by the word 
consent which is more legal and definite . Furthermore that by the deletion 
of the word knowledge , the position has been inade now more strict . It was 
submitted that connivance is a thing which does not connote consent because 
consent as defined in Stouts Judicial Dictionary at page 282 is an 
act of reason accompanied with deliberation , mind weighing as in a 
balance , the good and evil on each side. Consequently those pre 
requisites of the connotation of consent must precede before any consent, im 
plied or express , can be accepted . Learned counsel proceeded that of course 
knowledge is the first requisite but in consent one cannot stop there it one has 
the knowledge , and he does not act because it amounts to connivance . With 
consent one has to go further and agree with the act . In other words, implied 
consent must be the consent that approves it and for express consent there must 
"be concurrence . Mr. Chawla made reference to the Rajya Sabha debate volume 
30 , No . 35 dated 25th May , 1956 wherein the speeches of Shr ] H . N . Kunzru and 
Shri Pataskar, Law Minister have been reproduced . It was argued that Mr. 
Pataskar maintained the difference between consent and connlvance and stated 
that connivance was very vague which was substituted by the word consent , 
Learned counsel concluded that under the present amended law , the conserit is to 
be proved and sheer knowledge or connivance are not sufficient which have been 
discussed and defined in various decisions under the old Act relied upon by the 
petitioner in the course of his arguments. Replying to the argument of the pati 
tioner on the point of sub - section ( 2 ) , Sec . 100 , Mr. Chawla submitted that the 
interpretation put by the petitioner Shri Ram Phal that Sec . 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) and sub 
section ( 2 ) are to be read together and that sub -section ( 2 ) shifts the onus to the 
respondent is manifestly wrong interpretation on the face of it. It was submitted 
that sub - section ( 2 ) of Sec . 100 is a saving clause and the respondent did not 
Anyoke the protection of sub - section ( 2 ) . It was vehemently urged that on the 


SBC. 3 (il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


201 


legal position , it is not sufficient to prove the corrupt practice u / s 123 of the Act 
but it is to be proved that it was commitied within the provisions of Sec , 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) 
of the Act while sub - section ( 2 ) of Sec, 100 is only a saving provision which 
comes into play when Şec . 100 ( 1 ) (b ) of the Art has been proved and applied . 
The argument exactly was that sub - section ( 2 ) of Seç . 100 is another saving for 
the respondent because cven if the corrupt practice is proved under the provi 
sions of Sec . 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) , still sub - section ( 2 ) takes away the penalty if so requtred 
but in this case the applicability of sub -section does not arise nor it has been 
invoked as said above . Coming to the question of consent, Mr. Chawla gubmit 
tod that there is not an iota of evidence that consent was forthcoming , express 
or implied , so far respondent No. 1 was concerned . The council proceeded that 
even if on the basis of evidence about conspiracy alleged to have taken place 
at the place of Gulzari Lal Chopra as evidenced by PW8 36 , 37 and 38 , respon 
dent No. 1 was not connected . Regarding the clection agent, the story given out 
is again ridiculous and on the basis of a false story , clection agent Shri Shiv 
Charan Gupta cannot be treated to have given any consent. The argument was 
reinforced that the word agent has bcen deleted in the amended section 100 
and as such the word any person now used is not to be taken acting as an agent 
but shall have to be proved definitely and distinctly that it was with the consent 
of the candidate or his election agent and as such consent has its own significance 
and has to be proved Independently of his being an agent. The learned counsel 
maintained that agency even if proved does not take us further for satisfying 
the requirements of Sec . 100 ( 1 ) (b ) until consent has not been proved . Reliance 
was placed on a decision ( Vishvanath vs. Hira Lal Dass ) reported in , 1958 Assan , 
97 , VII, ELR , 100 in the matter of K , B . Rao vs. S . S . More , VIII, ELR , 417 in 
the matter of Nihal Chand Devi Chand vs. Election Tribunal Bombay , IX , ELR , 
451; X , ELR , 376 ; 1958 Madras, 240 ; Halesbury Law of England Part III Politics 
at page 304 etc . 

33 . Now on the appreciation of the arguments of both sides on this legal 
aspect of the question , it may be said at once that as I read Sec . 100 of R . P . Act , 
It seems clear to me that suh - section ( 2 ) of Sec , 100 is a saving clause as envl 
saged in the opening words itself and comes into play even it and when any 
corrupt practice is proved u / s 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Act . Judged in this view , the 
major part of the argument advanced by the petitioner , Shri Ram Phal collapses 
to scrutiny inasmuch as the effort made on the basis of authority regarding the 
interpretation of statute cited and referred to above is of no avail . The rulings 
in relation to interpretation of statute , are correct but the application of these 
by the petitioner is fallacious and docs not hold water. The sub - section ( 2 ) has 
clearly been provided as a rider and does not form a part of sub -section ( 1 ) and 
the two sub - sections ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) stand apart u / s 100 of the Act . The sole queg 
tion for determination accordingly is as to the meaning of agent as defined now 
in the Amended Act in the explanation appended to Sec . 123 of the Act . The 
other feature which I might take it at the very outset is that with the deletion 
of the word knowledge and the word connivance most of the old Act substituted 
by the word consent most of the decisions given under the old Act are no longer 
good law . I am conscious that certain principles enunciated or certain observa 
tions made therein can be used as good arguments but the outhority by itself 
after the amendment of 1956 in the Act cannot be accepted as good authority and 
As such the decisions relied upon by the petitioner from Doabla s Elcction cases 
cannot be helpful . The latest authority on the point is one of Assam High Court 
in the matter of Viswanath Upadhaya vs. Hira Lal Dass and others page 97. 
This case has already been considered by me In petition No 117 / 57 ( Shri Amir 
Chand vs. Smt. Sucheta Kripalani) as published in the Government gazette . The 
same case has now been reported in All India Reporter under the citation given 
above and is the latest authority as compared with the decisions of the various 
Tribunals. The dictum laid down by their Lordships of the High Court, Assam . 
is to the effect : 


“ In order to constitute the agency under Sec. 123 , it is essential that 

a person must be proved to have acted as an agent in connection 
with the election with the consent of the candidate . Reading $ . 100 
and S . 123 together , it will appear that if a person acts in connection 
with clection as an agent with the consent of the candidate , he will 
be deemed to be an agent for the purposes of S . 123. The result 
will be that any publication done by such a person will constitute 
a corrupt practice . But before the petitioner could get any relief 
under Sec, 100 , he is not only to prove that a corrupt practice has 
been committed by any person ; but it has been done with the consent 

of the returned candidate ." 
( g ) It is true that consent is to be interred from the circumstances and 

It may be direct or indirect. But consent is a question of fact which 


202 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959/MAGHA 4, 1880 


(PART II 


will have to be established by the petitioner before he gets a relief 
under Sec . 100 . If it can be established from the circumstances that 
the candidate had knowledge of the fact that an article was going 
to be published in a newspaper and that the article contained certain 
imputations against the personal conduct of another candidate and 
if he did not take any steps to stop publication , his consent to the 
Publication may be inferred . But from the fact that he had know 
ledge of the contents subsequent to its publication , no duty is cast 
on him to go and publish some repudiation of the allegations con 
tained in the publication . The consent, so as to make the act of third 
party as the act of the candidate should be in respect of the act of 
the third party ; the knowledge which have legitimately pled to the 
Inference of consent would be the knowledge of the fact that it was 
going to be published . Any subsequent knowledge of the contents 
of the publication cannot be relevant for the purpose of determining 

the consent of the candidate prior to the publication . 
(h ) In order to fasten the liability to the editor s act on a candidate , it is 

necessary to establish that the editor was acting as an agent of the 
candidate in connection with the election and that too with his con 
sent. Mere action of the editor beneficial to the candidate will not 
be enough to prove that he was acting as an agent in connection 
with the candidate s election . Even if it is proved that he was acting 
as an agent, it is further to be proved that he was doing so with his 
consent , 


Mr. Ram Phal in the course of reply to the argument of the respondent pointed 
out that the facts are distinguishable . But facts are not being considered and 
the abstract question of law and the principles enunciated are to be considered 
at prosent as to what change has taken plice in the amended Act by the substitu 
tion of the word consent in place on ronilvance . This issue on the point of legal 
aspect was also argued by Shri V M . Trivedi Senior counsel on behalf of Shri 
Shyama Charan Gupta , respondent No. 2 ; Mr. Trivedi on the point of agency and 
consent, submitted that there was not much difference between connivance and 
consent and it can be inferred from the circumstances. Reliance was made on 
a decision of Election Tribunal, Poona in the matter of Krishnaji Bhimrao vs. 
Shanker Shanta Ram reported in VII , ELR , 100 . This case was also under the 
old Act and the learned Tribunal observed that even though the term agent has 
a much wider significance in the election law , yet in the law of agency the Secy . 
of the election propaganda of a party who published leaflets and posters in his 
capacity as such Secretary cannot be deemed to have done such acts as an agent 
of the candidate by the party unless there is evidence to show that the Act was 
done with the consent, and connivance of the candidate . Mr. Chawla on the 
other hand placed his reliance on this decision and maintained that the dictum 
laid down rather goes in his favour. In the face of the latest authority of the 
Assam High Court , I think it is not necessary to elaborate the point furt? - " , I 
am however conscious that in that case , an editor of a paper was alleged to have 
acted as an agent who was not a member of the Congiess but in the present case , 
Shri Brij Mohan is not only a member but was acting as General Secretary of 
DPCC and as such the previous case on merits is not a parallel case. But at 
present I am more concerned with thc legal aspect as to what part the change in 
the amended Act has now played in the determination of the question as to whe 
ther consent is a stronger word than connivance or not. Consent to my mind 
connotes deliberate concurrence I feel inclined to agree with the distinction 
made out by Mr. Chawla in the course of his argument. 


I am also aware that the law of agency is an important part of the election 
law and in common parlance an agent is a person employed to act for another 
or to represent another in dealing with third person . This is in fact the definition 
of an agent under the contract Act. In the election law , the parliamentary prac 
tice however has been that a corrupt practice committed by a candidate personally 
or which he did through another he was to lose when he was guilty of corrupt 
practice committed by his agent. The reason naturally is that it agents are 
permitted to play foul and the candidate should reap the benefit ot their foul play 
without being responsible , it would cause great mischief . But this was the vicw 
of the English Election law to a great extent. In this context in the election law , 
the doctrine of agency was carried further than the contract Act . The English 
decisions, however , vary in certain respects so much so that in some cases under 
English law a candidate may be responsible even for the acts done by his agents 
in deflance of his instructions. This was subsequently taken a very stringent 
and harsh law to make a man responsible who has directly forbidden a thing 


SÆL . 3 (ii)] TỈE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , BAU 

203 
= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = 
to be done by a subordinate agent. In the Indian Election law , this view of the 
election law has not been adopted . Under the R . P . Act of 1951, extension of 
the scope of agency was adopted for which reference may be made to the case 
of T . C . Bissapa vs. Nigappa, a decision on which reliance was placed by the 
petitioner also . In this case the Tribunal obesrved : 


" The term agent in election law has a wide significance . No authorisation 

or declaration in writing is necessary and the Tribunal has full 
power to hold any person as an agent of the particular candidate 
after considering the facts and circumstances . The fact of agency 
may be established by circumstances arising out of the general fea 
tures of the case , the conduct and connection of the party , the 
subsequent recognition of the acts of the supposed agent or at least 
an absence of disavowal of such acts ." 


This decision in the case of T , C . Bişsapa vs, Nigappa was referred and relied 
upon by the Election Tribunal in the case of Viswanath Upadhaya vs. Hlra Lal , 
from Patherkandi constituency of the Assam Legislative Assembly . But their 
Lordships of the High Court in appcal reversed the order of the Tribunal and 
distinguished this decision under the old Act . Similar is the position of other 
cases which were decided under the old Act. The present position under the 
R . P . Act with the definition of agent deleted from Sec . 79 and added in expla 
pation appended to Sec , 123, appears to be that under the present law , it is neces 
sary that there should be consent as distinguished from mere knowledge for any 
one acting as an agent before he can be treated as the agent of the candidate for 
the purposes of corrupt practices. It follows that when a person commits a cor 
Lupt practice , the returned candidate will be affected by it adversely only when 
that person had done so with the consent as distinguished from more connivance 
of the returned candidate or his election agent, and the consent also can be only 
of the clection agent and not of any other agent 2. e . polling agent or a person 
acting as agent with the consent of the returned candidate or his election agent. 
It is thus well recognised that the scope of the doctrine of agency under the elec 
tion law as hitherto recognised has been modified by the present amendment and 
the scope of agency narrowed down . 


34 . Applying this principle to the facts of this case , it is to be seen as to 
whether Brij Mohan acted as an agent of Shri Brahm Parkash respondent No. 1 . 
This is correct that he was working as General Secretary of the D . P . C . C . and in 
that capacity he attended the first meeting of all the parties convened by the Chief 
Electoral Officer when the names of the congress nominees were to be given . This 
is also correct and admitted that Shri Brij Mohan had attended a public meeting 
at Lakar Mandi, Motia Khan where all the congress candidates were present and 
a purse was presented to him and he also spoke in the mecting according to him 
for paying thanks and according to the published reports furthermore on the 
achievements of the congress , The evidence on other points that he attendent 
meetings on behalf of respondent No . 1 or convassed votes as discussed above do 
rot carry conviction as the evidence is much too meagre and cannot be called 
cogent and satisfactory evidence , as said above . His participation at the place 
01 Gulzari Lal Chopra where a manuscript is alleged to have been shown to Shri 
Shiv Charan Gupta and who suggested the publication by Brij Mohan has already 
been held an unfounded story and an improvement under sub - issue No. ( ii) . 
There is no other evidence on the record to prove consent and the merr circum 
stance that he happened to be the General Secretary and respondent No. 1 was 
the Vice President by no stretch of reasoning can hy itself form the basis of 
holding him an agent of respondent No. 1 , in view of the principles enunciated 
above . This aspect however is to he considered on the point of political asso 
ciations as well. The basic legal principle in this connection has been uptly laid 
( lown in the Halesbury s Laws of England , III edition , volume 14 , page 172, in 
para 305 under the heading political associations as agents . It reads as follows: 


" It has been recognised that there may be a political association existing 

for the purpose of a political party advocating the cause of a parti 
cular candidate and largely contributing to his success , yet in no 
privity with the candidate or his agents , and an independent agency 
and acting on its own behalf ( r ) It has been said that such an 
association would not be one for whose acts the candidate would be 
responsible ( s ) . There may , on the other hand be a political asso 
clation advocating the views of a candidate of which that candidate 
is not a member to the funds of which he does not subscribe, and 
with which he personally is not ostensibly cannected , but at the same 


204 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 / MAGHA 4, 1880 


[ PART II 


IA 


time in Intimate relationship with his agents respecting the canvas 
sing of voters , and the conduct of the election , and largely contribut 
Ing to the result . Such an association could be held to be one for 

whose acts the candidate was responsible ( t) . 
An association representing one of the political parties may further the 

general Interests of the party they represent, including work in 
connection with the preparation of the electors lists , without neces 
sarily becoming an agent of a candidate ; but the moment it appeary 
that the candidate or his election agent adopt, either individually or 
collectively , the work that is done by that association in such a mar 
ner as to benefit by its agency quo the election , the association will 
become the candidate s agent (u )." 


There are Indian decisions also on the point but the Ratto decendi of the author 
ity under the amended law is that members of the committee entrusted with 
management as a party cannot become the agents because the word now used is 
consent which is stronger than the latter word and the legpondent under the 
amended law can be held to be guilty of a corrupt practice only if the art of 
conveying voters was itself proved to have been done with his consent or with 
the consent of election agent to avoid the election u / s 100 of the Act. In other 
words only persons who have personal Intimacy with a candidate and were working 
to promote the election in some form a9 a relative , a close friend or a close associate 
over and above party afiliations can be treated as agents . In the absence of any 
evidence to this extent, it is dimcult to hold that Brij Mohan had acted as an 
Agent with the consent of respondent No. 1 , morc especially when there is no 
satisfactory evidence as said shove, that he worked at all in the days of the 
election for the purpose of convassing and the stand taken up by Brij Mohan that 
he was in charge of the office and the work was so much that he had no time 
to inove about or was supposed to move about when be was working as General 
Secretary on behalf of the party and not for any individual candidate . In this 
connection , I may say in passing that I was not impressed in the course of his 
explanation with his answers in regard to his money matters with Suraj Bhan 
( P . W .33) and about the correspondence relating to Ex P . W .33 / A and P . W .33 / B 
referred to above . His rcply in the matter of the satisfaction of the derree obtained 
against him by Dr. Suraj Bhan and execution taken out for its realization doos 
not appear to me satisfactory as well. But beyond these matters concerning his 
personal affairs, the evidence brought on the record in order to connect him with 
the writing Ex P . 9 and having delivered the manuscript to the Gupta Printing 
Works on the basis of the talk introduced by the petitioner, he stands unscathed 
from the accusations levelled against him inasmuch as the allegations on both 
these counts (naniely the talk attributed to the prcprietors Joti Pershad and Des Raj 
of Gupta Printing Works at the time of search as well as the version of PWs 36 . 
37 & 38 about the manuscript Ex P . 9 ) have been held to be unfounded and 
tabricated stories to create evidence in support of the allegations. This disposes 
of sub - issue No. ( v ) . 
35 . Sub -issue No. VI. 
Whether Om Parkash Jain , Vas Dev , Omce Secy. DPCC , Om Parkash Jain , 

Om Parkash Bahl, Joti Pershad and Des Raj are deemed to have 
acted as agents of respondent No, I as defined in explanation appended 
to Sec. 123 of the R . P . Act in the matter of publication of posts P . 1 

and P . 2 . 
This sub - issue ariges out of the allegations made by the petitioner in para 15A 
cf the amended petition in which Brij Mohan and other office bearers of D . P . C . C . 
along with Om Parkash Jain , Om Parkash Bahl and proprietors of Gupta Printing 
Works, Joti Pershad and Des Raj were mentioned to have been responsible for 
the publication of the posters in question . Out of these, Brij Mohan has already 
been dealt with and so far Vas Dev , Onice Secy ., DPCC , Om Parkash Bahl, Joti 
Pershad and Des Rat are concerned , no evidence was led nor any arguments were 
advanced and accordingly they stand exonerated . Om Parkash Sharma who was 
made an accused in the complaint and in whose name the posters purport to have 
been issued were treated as hogus and pseudonym was also not discussed by the 
petitioner for the purpcsę of agency, Shri Gian Singh Vohra arguing on behalf 
of Om Parkash Sharma adopted the arguments of Mr. Chawla and maintained 
that Shri Sharma belleyed the published allegations to be true. Shri Om Parkash 
Jain accordingly remains to be dealt with and in his case some evidence was also 
brought on the record to show that he was working for respondent Nm 1 in the 
days of election and convasked for respondent No. 1, The arguments advanced in 
this connection however were not consistent and were made in a diff sod manner 


SEC . 3 (ii) 


THE GAZE I TE OF INDIA : JIVUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


205 


off and on . The sum and substance of the whole argument is that Om Parkash 
Jaihi was an active worker of respondent No. 1 , Shri Brahm Parkash and he used 
to attend meetings make speeches and as well as canvass voters for him . Further 
more , that he was seen pasting posters of the walls at night as deposed by P . W . 12 
Run Chander Goel His other activity was alleged to have maligned Shyma 
Charan Gupta by collecting people and in this manner he was wcrking against 
the Jan Sangh candidate 111 the furtherance of the cause of respondent No. i . Tt 
way also asserted that Om Parkash Jain by his subsequent conduct has shown 
that he was in the congress and worked actively during the rourse of election . 
In this respect, reference was made to a note on the recurd that Shri Jaiu was 
present in court during the proceedings and was giving instructions to Shri Chawla . 
counsel for respondent No. 1 It was also pointed out by Shri Ram Phal in the 
course of arguments that after the issue of notice u / s 99 of the R . P Act to Shri 
Om Parkash Jain , he was actively working on the respondent side by way of taking 
notes and giving instructions to the counsel. In addition to thly , Shri Ram Phat 
islso at a later stage alicr the close of evidence in the case produced some mure 
documents in the forni ol receipts and it nomination piper of Shri Phul Singh 
Saini for party clection which purporth to have len seconded y On Park 
Jain Shri Jain did not admit those docunients having been in his hand and 
sone of the receipts nchinitie werd xplained to have been issued for rellsing 
subs ription for the inuhalla commuter , and not for Congress party 


26 On the other hand , Mr, Jain arguing himself and Shri Chawla in reply 
expuloined the position of Om Parkash Jain by referring to his detailed statement 
wherein Mr. Jain hug categorically denied that lie had at any time worked for 
respondent No 1 or that he was in the con105 , party . Reſence in particular 
was made to his previous connection with the R . S . S . and Jan Sangh party fion 
which he was expelled according to the petitioner and left along with others coord 
ing to the statement of Mr. Jain It was maintained that in the circumstances 
that hic was placed , he opposed the candidature of Shri Shyama Charan Gupta , a 
nomince of Jan Sangh party in power It wu9 stressed that Om Parkash Jain of 
course as borne out by the statements of some of " he DW also usecl iu dvise 
peuple not to vote for Shyanna Charan Gupla who had abused his power in his 
Capacity as an othce bearer ol FSS and Jan Sangh party . Mr. Chawla while taking 
the Trittunal into the statement of Mr. Jain emphasised that Oin Parkash Jain 
was a close associate al Shyama Charan Gupta huving been a Mukh Shikshak or 
& Branch and was in possession of rertain facts which hail formed the basis of 
the subject of the posters issued on behalf of Om Parkash Sharma in his caparity 
as General Secretary of Yuvak Samaj. It was next argued that Shri Brahm Parkashi 
respondent No. i in his sivorn testimony A So stoutly affirmed that he did not know 
much less had any connection with Om Parkush Jain and that he came to know 
Mr. Jain long after the craction in connection with the Tenants Associaticn . Mr. 
Chawla concluded that Om Parkugh Jain was a member of the Yuvak Samaj and 
as such was responsible for the issue of posters P 1 and P . 2 but there was no 
tangible and reliable evidence that he was a Congress worker or had worked for 
respondent No. 1 It was stressed in this connection that it he had been working 
agullst Shyama Charan Gupta of his own group against respondent No. 2 it 
could not be inferred that he was working as a canvassing agent of respondent No. 
1 until und unless it is proved by evidence that he dici " o with the consent of ies 
pondent No. 1 or his election agent. Learned rounsel relied upon the legal aspect 
of the question discussed in this connection in the case of Brij Mohan . Lastly , 
replying to the allegation that Om Parkash Jain was present in court at one time, 
Mr. Chawla submitted that so many persons come in ( surt room which is a public 
place and as explained by Om Parkash Jain he came one day of his own accord . 
Subsequently after the notice of 99 R . P . Act of course he was duty bound to be 
present. Mr Chawla rotoried und referred to the conduct of respondent No. 2 who 
was all the time giving instructions to the petitioner in ‘ he colirse of Llicenre ets 
well as arguments Replying to the aroumont of the petitionne 1h7 Shri Juin vas 
seen pasting posters at night time, reterence was made to the statement of Shri 
Ram Chander Goel ( P . W . 12 ) wherein he states that Om Parkash Jain was pasting 
the posters on the walls and made certain remarks. It was urged by Mr. Chawla 
that this story is not believable and has been connected to show Om Parkash Jain s 
interest in the alleged activities. Further -more , there is no corroboration on this 
point of any body else . Secondly the alleged place was near the cffice of Shyama 
Charan Gupta and as such the natter should have been reported straightaway . 
Regarding the other assertion that Om Parkash Jain was maligning respondent 
No . 2 and propagating against him , Mr. Chawla submitted that the evidence is of 
no value so long it was not proved that he was working as an agent of respondent 
No. 1. Further -more , he had his own grievance and enmity with respondent 
No . 2 and whatever he did at all, it was of his own accord without any connection 
with respondent No . 1 or his election agent. 


, OF , 


A ; JANUARY 24 , 1959/ MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[PART II 


37 . Now the arguments of both sides on this question have been reproduced at 
length and the point for determination is as to whether Om Parkash Jain worked 
for respondent No. 1 and it was proved on the reccrd by cogent evidence that he 
cud o with the consent of respondent No 1. There is no evidenre at all of 
consent or his association with respondent No : 1 . The petitioner in his evidence , 
of course , has referred to Mr. Jain s conduct in the days of elections and relied 
on the testimony of P . W . 12 Ram Chander Goel and PWs, 36 , 37 and 38 discussed 
above in sub - issue ( ii). Regarding the statement of Ram Chander Goel, he is an 
oinnibus witness and has stated almost on all issues . He has already been dis 
believed while dealing with Brij Mohan and this part of his statement that he 
had seen at mid -night Om Parkash Jain pasting posters also does not carry con 
viction in the light of circunstances referred to in the arguments detailed above 
The other evidence relating to the story adumhrated in the meeting at the place 
of Gulzari Lal Chopra has already been rejected on good grounds and has not 
been believed by the Tribunal Furthermore, respondent No, 1 has ernphatically 
denied having any concern or connection with Om Parkash Jain So far so that 
according to his statement Om Purkash Jain was not known to him and in the 
absence of any good evidence on the contrary it is diffirult to hold that Om Parkazh 
Jain with all his activity Against Shyama Charan Gupta acted as an agent of 
respondent No . 1 sheer on surmises I hold accordingly . 
38 Suh - ssile No . VII. 
" Whcther bíll No 635 in the name of DPCC makes the body responsil . e for 

the publication of P , 1 and P . 2 ." 
It may be said at the outset in this connection that this bill No. 635 was taken 
at the time of search by the petitioner and respondent No. 2 and a photostat copy 
of the same was also taken froin the court of the Magistrate in the Hrst week of 
April, still no mention of it was marle in the petition or in the amended particulars 
as given in para 15A . The note given by the then Member of the Tribunal with 
this issue quoted above also reveals that the persons inentioned in para 15A are 
to be dealt with and not DPCC A4 a body At any rate , the hill No. 635 is in the 
name if DPCC and not exactly in the name of General Secretary DPCC. This bill 
however was sent to DPCC Office for payment which clearly shows that Gupta 
Printing Works was 01 the opiuion that these posters were issued at the instance 
of DPCC and that body had to make the payment The petitioner in the course 
of arguments capitalized this point and I think with justification that when the 
bill was not to DPCC , the natural inference was that DPCC was responsible for 
the issue of these posters . Mr. Chawla in reply argued that the bill , in the name 
of DPCC of course appears to have been prepared by the Gupta Painting Works 
but it was done so by mistake on the basis that the matter was against Jan Sangh 
Mr. Chawla referred to another bill Ex P . 3 , which purports to have been issued 
by Anti-Communal Front and was not criticised as done on the lines of P . I and 
F 2 . This bil was also prepared in the name of DPCC but was paid by Shri 
Jumna Das Akhtar , Secretary of Anti -Communal Front and payment 
arcepted as borne out by Ex P . W . 71 / A This bill is No. 625 ( EX . P . 11 ) 
and is dated 24th February 1957 . On 26th February 1957 a letter was sent by Shri 
Akhtar to the press , Ex DW 71 / B for the delivery of the posters and the payment 
was made the learned culinsel for respondent No 1 embhasised that if this 
mistake was made in the case of another poster p 3 , admittedly issued by Anti 
Communal Front and the paymrit made by them , same mistake can easily be 
reconciled in the case of these pogters P 1 and P 2 . The argument exactly is that 
the proprietors of Gupta Printing Works prepared both bills Nos , 635 (which relate 
to P . I and P2) and No . 625 (which relate to P 3 ) in the name of DPCC because 
the matter wag against Jan Sangh The argument was reinforced that in the case 
of Ex P . 3 , no chjortion has been taken by the petitioner that the bill was in the 
natne of DPCC and as such DPCC was responsible for it. But in the case of P . 1 
and P . 2 . this objection is being capitalised in order to connect Brij Mohan which 
is untenable . The other Argument was that all the manuscripts which were gent 
for printing to Gupta Printing Works by DPCC bore the seal I DPCC but Ex P . 9 
acimitteclly does not hear any sea The counsel concluded that in the preparation 
of bill, the mistake was bona fide as explained above , 

There was some arguments with regard lo the supply of paper by DPCC for 
the printing of its posters , he account of which is given on the back of bill No . 645 , 
Shri Ram Phal petitioner contended that these posters P . 1 and P . 2 were printed 
on the paper supplied by DPCC and this also indicates that the order was from 
the DPCC . Mr. Chawla controverting the argument submitted that there is no 
evidence on the record that any paper was supplied by the DPCC in the first 
Instance and there is no date about the writing at the back of bill No. 643 about 
Agaz ka hissab . Shri Des Raj as court witnesy has stated that the original bill 


Sec . 3 ( 11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


207 


No . 645 was sent to DPCC sometime after 2nd March 1957 and before 13th March 
1957 while bill No. 635 bears the date 2nd March 1957 . Further -more this account 
is not on the original bill No . 645 and there is no evidence about the supply of 
paper by the DPCC . It was just possible that this note was by way of memo kept 
by Des Raj on bill No. 645 . 1twas emphasised moreover that if it was renidition 
of account with DPCC , then it must have been sent on the original bill sent to 
DPCC but there is no mention of the paper account on the back of original bill No 
645 dated 4th March 1957 The counsel proceeded that regarding the question as 
to who had placed the order with the press if not by DPCC , it was not for the 
respondent to explain yet in order to deal with the evidence , he maintained that 
it was done by Om Parkash Sharna, Secretary, Yuvak Samaj in whose name the 
posters were issued Om Parkash Sharma has sworn on the point that it was he 
who had given the manuscript in the press and Des Raj Gupta , Proprietor . Gupta 
Printing Works algo supports that the manuscript was given by Om Parkash 
Sharma. Mr Chawla contended that the onus was on the petitioner to prove that 
the respondent was responsiblt, and in the absence of any evidence brought on the 
record , excepting surmises that the bill was wrongly prepared in the name of 
DPCC , the DPCC cannt be hoeld answerable for the bill The original bill No 835 
moreover shows that thç bill was returned with the remark written by Brij Mohan 
dated 13th March 1957 which is a pointer to the fact that the bill was not accepted 
by the DPCC ofice 

39 . Now the original bill No. 635 shows that the Accountant on the receipt of 
the bi! ] put it before the General Secretary , Shri Brij Mohan who passed the follow 
ing remark on it . 

" Acct 
DPCC has nothing to do with this poster . Why have they sent this bill to 


us ? 


BRTJ MOHAN . 

dt, 13. 3. 57." 
On the left side there is another note 

" O .S . Seen . 

25th March 1957 
The Omce Secretary Shri Amha Pershad arcordingly returned the bill to Gupta 
Printing Works with a letter dated 30th March 1957 wherein it was stated – 
" Returned . We never placed any order for its publication . 

dt . 30th March 1957." 
Another note shows that the bill was received back by Gupta Printing Works 
on 2nd April 1957 with the words : 
" Received 

2 / 4 " . 
On the persual of this bill, it is abundantly clear that Brij Mohan did not 
accept the bill and in writing denounced the sending of this bill to D . P . C C ., and 
this was done 6 / 7 days after the result of the election was out and much earlier 
to the complaint which was lodged on 1st April 1957. The note of the Office 
Secretary is of 25th March 1957 i e , carlier to the complaint and the letter returning 
the bill by the Office Secretary bears the date 30th March , 1957. This regular 
record of the office amply reveals that the bill was not accepted and it is also in 
evidence that subsequently demand was made from Om Parkash Sharma who 
sent Rs. 35 with a letter No. 33, dated 30th April, 1957 written on a form of 
Yuvak Samaj. There was some discussion on the point that this letter No . 33 
sent by Om Parkash Sharma was not genuine and has been brought on the 
record in order to show that DPCC had not paid the amount but the notes 
on the original bill described above clearly indicates that the DPCC did not own 
the publication of these posters to which this bill No 635 relates It is a different 
matter that in some calendestine way anything had happened but on the record 
so far the evidence goes the DPCC disowned the bill and the publication , much 
earlier to the complaint when the dispute arose. În these circumstances, notwith 
standing of the circumstance that the preparation of bill in the name of DPCC 
normally goes to show that DPCC was concerned with the bill yet in view of the 
circumstances in which this bill along with bill No 625 which was paid by Secv . 
Anti Communal Front and the disowning of the DPCC soon after when there 
was no quarrel over the matter leads to the conclusion that DPCC has not been 


208 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGIA 4, 1880 


[Part II 


proved connccted and cannot be treated to have been responsible for the publica 
tion of the posters, which as held above was made by Om Parkash Sharma, Om 
Parkash Jain as well as Phul Singh Saini and others, members of Yuvak Samaj. 
This sub - issue is answered accordingly . 
40 . Sub - issue No. VIII. 
" Whether Ex . P . 3 a poster issued by Anti -Communal Front constitutes any 

corrupt practice as contemplated u / s 123 ( 4 ) of R . P . Act." 
This poster was admittedly issued by Anti- Communal Front and the bill was 
also paid by the Secretary , Shri Jumna Dass Akhtar, D . W . 71 as per receipt 
Ex . D . W . 71 / A . The allegation in the petition is embodied in paragraph 15 
which was amplified by another paragraph 15 - A at the time of amendment. The 
allegations specifically are to the cffect that on or about 28th February 1957, posters 
purporting to have been issued by a body known as Anti Communal Front and 
printed by Gupta Printing Works were pasted in several places in the Delhi 
Saddar constituency asking the electorate to refrain from yoting in favour of 
thc party which had among its deinands the demand of Akhand Bharat which 
was the demand of Godse , the murderer of Mahatma Gandhi the father of the 
nation . It was alleged inter -alia that there was a clear suggestion by the said 
poster that respondent No. 2 was one of those who directly or indirectly was 
involved in the murder of Mahatma Gandhi and as such votes must not be cast 
in his favour. The copy of the poster was annexed as annexure C . The only 
evidence adduced in support of it was a copy of the poster and some of the PWS 
who deposed that they had seen these posters displayed on the walls in the consti 
tuency . In the course of arguments on issue No. 1, this poster was also referred 
to in a luke-warm manner but no argument was advanced as to how respondent 
No. 1 was connected with the publication of this poster ; nor any attempt was 
made in the course of argument to show that this poster also satisfied the require 
ments of Section 123 ( 4 ) , namely that the allegation was a statement of lact and 
relates to the personal character of Shyama Charan Gupta or that it was false 
or was not believed to be true. Now in the absence of any argument, any dis 
cussion is hardly called for. At any event, the allegation does not satisfy the 
essential requirements of Section 123 ( 4 ) under which this too was attacked by 
the petitioner . Secondly , no evidence was adduced that it was issued at the 
instance of respondent No 1 or the Anti - Communal Front body was working as 
an agent of respondent No 1. In these circumstances , there is no force in this 
sub - issue and it must fail, 

41 This brings me to the poster itself, Ex P . 1 printed in Hindi and its copy 
Ex. P . 2 printed in Urdu . The allegations made have been quoted above at the 
very outset and these are 6 in No , and a general remark which may be numbered 
as 7 . Now these are to be applied and put to test within the purview of the 
elements of Section 123 ( 4 ) detailed as under : 
( 1 ) That the publication was made by a candidate or his agent or by any 

other person . 
( 2 ) It must be a statement of fact. 
( 3 ) It must be in relation to the personal character or conduct of any 

candidate . 
( 4 ) That the statement was false or believed to be false or not belirved 

to be true, 
( 5 ) The publication was reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects 

of that candidate s election . 
The Arst ingredient namely the publication has already been considered in 
sub -issue No. ( i ) and the finding given is to the effect that the posters Ex . P . 1 
and P . 2 were got printed and issued by the Yuvak Samaj in the name of General 
Secretary of the Yuvak Samaj , Om Parkash Sharma. On the question of display 
and circulation of the posters , it was contended by respondent s side that there 
was no display of posters as deposed by several DWs and the publication was not 
proved to satisfy the requirements of Section 123 ( 4 ) . Suffice it to say that the 
defence evidence is of negative nature and is of no avail. It has been proved 
by positive evidence on the side of the petitioner that the posters were displayed 
and were scen by several persons who read the contents . Om Parkash Sharma in 
his deposition has said that the posters were printed but he was approached by 
Shyama Charan Gupta whom he knew earlier along with his brother Khazan Singh 
and others and requested him not to display the same. And that the whole bundle 
was made over to them and actually it was not publicised or displayed . This 
part of the statement was not corroborated by any other witness and as such 
must be repelled . In the circumstances the first element is proved on the record 


SEC , 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


209 


to the extent that the publication was made by some persons belonging to Yuvak 
Samaj but not by respondent No. 1 or by his agent as held above. The next 
ingredient of Section 123 ( 4 ) 18 whether the allegations made are statement of 
facts . On the perusal of the allegations, it is abundantly clear that all these 
amount to statement of facts and are not opinions . The next ingredient is AS 
to whether these relate to the personal character of the candidate , i. e . respondent 
No. 2 . On this , the counsel discussed the legal aspect of the question and referred 
lo some English cases and as well as to some Indian decisions in the first instance 
The gist of the authority cited at the Bar is to the effect that when the criticism 
is against the public activities or in the capacity of a politician or a public worker 
then it does not relate to the personal character of the candidate but when it is 
beneath the politician , then it touches the personal character. Now , the word 
personal has its own significance in contra -distinction to the word public and 
as such the distinction between the statements relating to the personal character 
or conduct and between the statements in relation to the candidates political 
and public conduct is real, It appears the statute does not prohibit in the election 
campaign all kinds of criticism which even may not be strictly true relating to the 
political behaviour and opinions of the candidate . It is only when the man as 
said above bencath the politician is attacked or his honour, integrity or veracity 
assailed in the statement that it comes within the mischief of the section . The 
busic English authority in this connection is the North Louth case in which 
this question was aptly considered and Mr. Justice Gibson held that the question 
whether a particular statement is in relation merely to the public or political 
character of a candidate or with respect to his personal character is to be decided 
on the facts and circumstances of each case . The learned Judge pertinently 
remarked that 
" A politician for his public conduct may be criticised , held up in obliquy , 

for which statute gives no redress, but when the man beneath the 
politician has his honour, veracity and purity assailed , he is entitled 
to demand that his constituents shall not be poisoned against him 

by falsc statements containing such unfounded imputations" . 
Mr. Justice Maddon has also emphasised the same view in his judgment in the 
same case . The question , he remarked , is readily one of commonsense and depends 
of an answer to the meaning uttributed to the document in question . There are 
some other English authorities in which this question was discussed which have 
been quoted in the case of Shri Hari Vishnu Kumath Vs. Shri Magan Lal Bagri 
decided by Election Tribunal, Jubbulpore, published in the Gazette of India 
extraordinary of February 12 , 1958 and relied upon by the petitioner , 

42 . Applying these principles enunciated above on the allegations made in the 
poster P . 1 and P .2 , it will be seen that the first allegation namely that Shri Shyama 
Charan Gupta was only Matriculate in English but was giving out that he was 
B . A . (Hons.) obviously relates to his personal character . Similarly , the second 
one that Shyama Charan Gupta has taken forcible possession of a godown 
belonging to R . S . S . also relates to his personal character . The third allegation 
that he mis - appropriated the funds of R . S . S also touches his personal veracity and 
honesty . The fourth allegation that he abstained to proceed to Goa on his excuse 
of the illness of one of his relations however appal s to be on the border line 
inasmuch as Shri Shyama Charan Gupta was incharge of Goa satyagraha and in 
his political career was expected to participate in the satyagraha himself also and 
as such this allegation relates to his public activities and I do not fcel înclined 
to treat it as a part of his personal character . Next allegation is with regard to 
the misappropriation of the price of the jeep belonging to R . S . S . This also touches 
the personal character and the veracity of respondent No. 2 . The last item 
namely that respondent No 2 had spoken against the refugees in a speech alleged 
to have been made by him at Ghaziabad to all intents and purposes is an allega 
tion in respect of his public career Mr. U , M . Trivedi learned counsel for 
respondent No. 2 who was permitied to get his part of the case argued by his own 
counsel frankly admitted that this allegation does not relate to the personal 
character of respondent No. 2 , Shri Shyama Charan Guptu . The last remark 
was also not pressed because that amounts to an opinion that respondent No. 2 
was not a deserving man and was a weak man unft for parliamentary seat, 

43 . The other element in Section 123 ( 4 ) , onus of which lay upon the petitioner , 
is as to whether the statement of fact was false and which the publisher either 
believed to be false or did not believe to be true, It is note -worthy that the 
word in between was false and believed to be false or did not believe to be true 
is and which is conjunctive and not disjunctive and as such in the first place it 
is to be proved that the statement was false and in addition to the falsity , it must 
further be proved that the person believed it to be false or did not believe it to 
be true In other words if the publisher bona - fide thought that the statement wag 


210 THE GAZELIE OF INDIA . JA LARY 24, 1939 , 11.1GIA 4, 1880 [l arr II 
- - - - = = - - = ASS E 

- = - = _ 
correct or had reasonable grounds to believe that it was correct, the condition 
shall not be satisfied . The words used in Section 123 ( 4 ) are also used in various 
definitions in the I. P . C . where a distinction is marked between belief and 
knowledge. It follows that it is the belicť of the person making it about the truth 
or falsity of the statement which actually counts . Of course all the grounds shall 
have to be scrutinised and examined on which any such belief can be based . It 
may also be stated that no hard and fast rule can be laid down and each case is 
to be judged on its particular merits and no one case can be an authority on all 
fours, one way or the other. Shri Ram Phal petitioner arguing on this part of 
the issue regarding the truth or falsity mainly relied on Shri Shyama Churan 
Gupta s statement. It was argued that respondent No. 2 had emphatically denied 
those allegations and according to his statement the first allegation made in the 
statement was false and not believed to be true as proved hy the intermediate 
certificate Aled on the record . It was urged that he was Prabhakar which is 
equivalent to B . A , in Hindi, He is also Sahit Rattan Part I and he never held 
out that he was B . A . ( Hons ) . Regarding the other items, it was submitted that 
the allegations are incorrect and false as sworn by Shyama Charan Gupta 
supported by other witnesses. Specific reference was made to the statement of 
Shri Parkash Chand Bhargava ( P . W . 26 ) who has been the General Secretary 
of the Delhi Branch of R . S . S , as well as about the allegation relating to godown , 
jeep, misappropriation of funds etc . And that Shyama Charan Gupta was at no 
time dealing with the funds of R . S . S . It was argued that Shri Parkash Chand 
Bhargava, the General Secretary has given a clean certificate to respondent No . 2 , 
and as such all the allegations made against him were false . Reference was also 
made to the statement of Kidar Nath Sahnı, the clection agent of respondent No. 2 
as well as Duli Chand ( P . W . 18 ) . Touching the legal aspect, Shri Ram Phal 
made a reference to the wording of Section 123 ( 4 ) and submitted that in order to 
constitute a corrupt practice , it was enough to show that the allegations are false 


44 . On the other hand, Mr. Chawla on this ingredient of Section 123 ( 4 ) viz, 
falsity vehemently contended that the onus lay heavily upon the pctitionet to 
prove each item that it was false to the knowledge of the other side who published 
them and in this connection , reference was made to Om Parkash Jain , ( P . W . 19 ) , 
a Municipal Commissioner who in cross -examination has stated that respondent 
No. 2 told him that he is B . A . (Hons) . This witness P . W . 19 has also admitted 
that he was a covering candidate of respondent No. 2 in this very election . 
Mr. Chawla argued that this part of the statement of petitioner s own witness 
definitely shows that respondent No . 2 was giving out to others that he was 
B . A . (Hons) . Reference was also made to Ex , D . 8 , a brochure on the life of 
respondent No . 2 which was got printed by him in which the word used are 
" English men unchi talım hasil ki hai" . The counsel contended that when he 
himself says in his life account that he had received unchi talım , it can be safely 
interred that he was giving out that he was B . A . (Hons ) . Reliance was placed 
on a book alleged to have been written and published by respondent No. 2 . It, 
was urged that reference to the book was made at the earliest on 28th October 
1957, in the statement of Duli Chand ( P . W . 18 ) and Om Parkash Jain ( D . W . 68 ) 
has given the whole description and made specific reference to the book Andhkar 
ke bad nav parbhat . This witness also filed an affidavit at a later stage along 
with an application for summoning the said booklet , which contains the name of 
the press in which the book was published and reference was also made in the 
afhdavit to the circumstances under which the material entry in the register of 
State Press Officer was alleged to have been torn , Mr. Chawla argued that these 
circumstances speak by themselves and in the absence of any counter affidavit 
by the petitioner , the affidavit of Om Parkash Jain should be believed . Mr. Chawla 
concluded that in the light of all these facts and circumstances , it was definitely 
proved that the first item namely that Shyama Charan Gupta used to pass as B . A . 
( Hons ) in the eyes of public was not false . The learned counsel also invited the 
attention of the Tribunal to the statement of Shyama Charan Gupta where in 
cross - examination , he has stated " I am not the author of any book " . Mr. Chawla 
referred to the copy of the catalogue brought on the record in which under the 
heading Politics in item No. 3 the name of Shyama Charan Gupta is mentioned 
as the author of a book styled Bhartiya Jan Sangh . The counsel maintained 
that the catalogue is a copy of the gazette and the entry clearly falsifles the state 
ment of Shyama Charan Gupta namely that he was not author of any book . 

45 . Regarding the other item pertaining to godam per kabza , Mr. Chawla made 
a reference to statement of P . W . 52, respondent No. 2 wherein he has stated that 
two godowns were taken possession of after 1950 in the name of the joint family . 
The counsel submitted that according to his statement on this point, the period 
from 1948 to 1950 remains uncovered and presumably , the godown was in the 
possession of R . S . S . during this uncovered period . It was argued that in order 
o cover the period ranging from January 1948 to 7th June 1952, respondent No. 2 


SI< . ( 11 ) THE ( A / EI TE OF INDIT . JHUIRI 1, 1959/ NI 1 ,111 + RU 201 
= - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - = - = -= - = - = = - = -- - - 
has manufactured various receipts of 1948 , which were brought on the record along 
with a rough Jease deed written in pencil dated 24th January 1943. Mr. Chawla 
contcnded that these receipts and the dced placed on the l erord runs counter 
to the statement of R . W . 1 Harnam Singh examined on behalf of Om Parkash Jain 
after the notice u / s 99 of the Act was served upon him . This Harnam Şingh has 
stated unequivocally that he was a refugee and he had taken possession of this 
goduwn but the R . S . S . people who were helping refugees in those days asked him 
to give the possession of the godown to the R . S . S . management for their use. 
Mr. Chawla maintained that the petitioner was to prove that this allegation was 
false and as such it was ( xported that he should have produced some evidence 
in the form of account books maintained by the firm regarding the payment of 
rent. The landlady Mst . Imtul Qayum who was said to be in Delhi according 
to the statement of Shyama Charan Gupta should have been produced in order 
to refute the allegation and to prove that the allegation was false to the 
knowledge of those who published posters P . ) and P . 2 , The lcuined counsel 
finally submitted that the falsity was not proved and the correctness of the allega 
tions has rather been proved and the receupts produced now for the uncovered 
pcriod are fabricated ones inasmuch as according to the statement of Mr. Shyama 
Charan Gupta himself the possession of godown was actually taken by the firm in 
1950. Adverting to the third item namely the mis - appropriation of R . S . S . funds , 
Mr. Chawla argued that the funds were admittedly raised by voluntary contri 
butions and were not entered in any book but the Vibhag Parmukh who was 
incharge of the division used to deposit the amount in the central fund . The 
counsel explained that Vibhag Parmukh is an officer between the centre and the 
shakha and there is no record cither in the shakha or centre or at least it has not 
been produced . The counsel proceeded that Shyama Charan Gupta was the 
Vibhag Parmukh i. e. incharge of several branches and in that capacity the 
monetary contributions were used to be deposited by him at the centre . The 
criticism was that full amounts were not deposited as stated in the stutement of 
Om Parkash Jain who was also incharge of one of the shakhas . The people 
believcd that there was some bungling in the proper deposit and as such they did 
not believe the allegation to be Iulse. It was urged that the belief was well 
founded in the circumstances of the casei and in the absence of the proof of falsity 
which was on the petitioner , it can be safely inferred that the publishers had the 
belief about the correctness of the allegations. Reference was made to the state 
ment of Om Parkash Jain wherein he has stated that a complaint was made to 
Shri Basant Rao Oak to the effect that lesser amounts were deposited but this 
part of the statement was not touched in cross - examination by the petitioner side. 
Regarding the allegation of Goa satyagraha, Mr. Chawla submitted that in the 
first placc it does not relate to the personal character of the candidate and , it 
relates to his public life . As such it was not beneath the politics if that principle 
is to be adopted . The counseī on the point of falsity maintained that the mere fact 
that Shyama Chaian Gupta wes taking part in the satyagraha and was one of the 
organisers, he was expected to go to Goa . His explanation that he was working 
in the office and was not called upon to go was much too general and it can be 
rightly said that when he did not go , those who published the allegation did not 
believe it to be false . Arguing on the allegation of jeep , the argument of 
Mr. Chawla was that the onus was on the petitioner to prove the falsity by the 
best cvidence that was available namely about the purchase of the jeep in 
question . The account books were available but were withheld and were said 
to be with his father . Mr. Chawla contended that his father could come forward 
to purge his son as well as himself from the charge levelled against his son ot 
having misappropriated the money fetched by the sale of the jeep belonging to 
R . S . S . The learned counsel urged that joep has its own significance and it does 
not stand to reason that businessman like Shyama Charan Gupta and his father 
could have purchased a jeep , which is generally used for rough work . Regarding 
the speech alleg¢d to have been made by respondent No. 2 at Ghaziabad , 
Mr. Chawlà argued that it does not relate to personal character as admitted by 
Shri Trivedi, learned counsel for respondent No. 2 and as such need not be 
replicd . Finally , the counsel contended that the word and between false and 
not believe to be true is conjunctive preposition and as such it is also to be proved 
that the allegation was not believed to be false which was not done, 


46 . Now on the appreciation of the trguments which have been reproduced 
above in extengo out of the copious notes taken at the time of arguments, it would 
suffice to touch every item briefly without any further elaboration . With regard 
to the first item , the difficulty that comes in the way of respondent No. 2 is that 
one of his own witnesses Shri Om Parkash Jain ( P . W . 19 ) a Municipal Com 
missioner of this constituency has stated that respondent No. 2 had told him that 
he was B . A . (Hons ) . He is petitioner s own witness and a man of status and in 


- 


- 


- - 


212 

TIIL GAZET IE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 [PART II 

= = = = 
no way shown to be inimical to respondent No. 2 . This witness has stated as 
follows: 
" I know the academic qualifications of respondent No. 2 . He is B . A . I 

cannot say from which university he graduated, nor can I say when 
he graduated. I learned it from respondent No, 2 thut he is BA . 

(Hons ) . 
Secondly , the definite statement of Shri Shyama Charan Gupta namely " I am 
not the author of any book " stands repudiated by the production of the catalogue, 
a gazette produced by the State Press Officer wherein his name is mentioned and 
the name of Rajhans Press is also mentioned . Shri Om Parkash Jain in his 
affidavit before summoning the State Press Officer had definitely stated that the 
book was published in Raj Hans Press and the copy was sent to the State Press 
Omcer . Full particulars are generally written in the register but the State Press 
Officer who was summoned for the production of the book stated that the book 
was not available and the entry in the register has been found torn , Mr. Chawla 
counsel for the respondent and Om Parkash Jain insisted for the production of 
the register as well as for recording the full statement about the tearing off the 
register but in view of the fact that the State Press Officer was summoned only 
for the production of the book and not as a witness , the Tribunal did not allow 
the full statement to go on the record . At any rate in the absence of the counter 
affidavit for which the petitioner was called upon to file but he wanted to file an 
affidavit of somebody else and was not prepared to file his own affidavit , I feel 
inclined to hold that the falsity was not proved or at lcast one who published the 
poster in question believed it to be true, Coming to the next item namely the 
forcible possession of the godown belonging to R . S . S . by Shyama Charan Gupta , 
it is also noteworthy that no tangible proof to prove the falsity was brought on 
the record and it was only at a later stage (when Shyama Charan Gupta was 
summoned for further cross - examination ) that respondent No 2 produced certain 
documents relating to the payment of rent after considerable reluctance . Of these 
documents one is a rent deed of June 1952 executed by Mst. Imtul Qayum and 
Zubeda Khatun daughters of Haji Mohd . Shafi in favour of Shri Sham Sunder 
brother of Shri Shyama Charan Gupta . In order to explain the intervening 
period from January 1948 to Julie 1952 ( 53 months ) recçipts of rent for 7 months 
viz . from January to July 1948 were placed on the record along with a receipt 
alleged to have been executed by Mst. Imty ] Qayum for Rs. 1 , 100 in relation to 
the payment made in the form of lump sum for the period commencing from 
August 1948 to June 1952 ( 46 months ) . A pencil copy of a draft of another rcnt 
deed , dated 24th January 1948 was also brought on the record . Taking all this 
documentary evidence on the facc valuc, regular rent deed was taken some time 
in June 1952 and according to the pencil rough copy in January 1948 It appears 
that n the days of disturbances this cvacuee property was taken hold of by 
some one. That may be either by R . S . S . people or by Shyam Sunder brother 
of Shyama Charan Gupta , or by Harnam Singh R . W . Now Shyama Charan Gupta 
does not say in a straight manner that this evacuée property was taken possession 
of by his brother and subsequently was regularised by the execution of rent 
decd in June 1952. He has rather stated , as quoted above , that the family took 
possession of the godown in 1950 . In the face of this statement, the evidence 
produced by him relating to January , 1948 is of doubtful nature . It is also not 
intelligible that why rent was not paid for a long period of 48 months when 
according to the terms of rent dced ( a pencil copy of which dated 24th January 
1948 is placed on the record and relied upon ) was executed by Shyam Sunder 
in favour of Imtul Qayum , All these circumstances reflect adversely and cast 
grave suspicion on the actual transaction as relied upon by respondent No, 2 . 
Circumstances as they say speak some times much more than the facts and cannot 
lic . Taking all these facts into consideration , one is lcd to the belicf that even 
it the statement of Harnam Singh be not accepted , it does not stand to reason that 
any legal transaction was made in 1948 between the firm Sham Sunder and Shyam 
Charan Gupta and the daughters of Haji Mohd . Shaf . Further -more, Mr. Shyama 
Charan Gupta asserts in his statement that Mst Imtul Qayum is still in Delhi, 
but she was not produced nor was summoned by the petitioner in order to prove 
the falsity of the allegations onus of which lay upon him . The inference 
accordingly that one can reasonably deduce from all these circumstances is that 
the property went into the possession of the firm sometime in Soptember 1947 
or in 1948 and no rent was being paid but when the things settled down and the 
evacuee property was controlled by the Rehabilitation Department, the position 
was regularised by the execution of a deed in 1952. The question naturally arose 
what to do about the intervening period and a reccipt for 46 months rent was 
executed or I would say , was made to be exccuted by Mst . Imtul Qayum to cover 
the period and some receipts were also taken of course under their signatures 
but not necessarily in 1948. At any rate , for want of cogent and reliable proof, 


SFC . $ ( 11 ) ] THE GAZETTE OJ INDIA · JANUARY 24 , 1959/MAGHA 4, 1880 

213 
= = = = = = 
the whole thing rests on conjectures which in the natural course of events can 
be taken note of under the provisions of section 114 of the Evidence Act. The 
presumption under that law is that coniormity with the ordinary course of nature 
ought always to be presumed and when inferring the existence of fact from other 
facts and circumstances courts of justice do nothing more than upply a process 
of reasoning which the mind of any intelligent being would under the same 
circumstances had applicd for itself in regard to the springs of human action and 
the habits of society . The sources of these presumptions of fact of course are 
common course of natural events , the common course of human conduct and the 
common course of public and private business . Taking these courses in the 
circumstances, I feel myself fortified in the observations given above . Accordingly 
the falsity was not proved to the hilt as was required , and it can safely be interred 
that thosc who got the posters published did not believe it to be false. The result 
is that thc ingredient with regard to falsity has not been established and the 
publishers did not helieve it to be false . 

47 . The next itcm relates to the misappropriation of R . S . S . funds. On this 
point, Mr. Ram Pha ] petitioner whilc arguing had submitted that the allegation 
was very scrious and was made falsely without any basis for its belief by the 
other side , while Shri Chawla s argument described above was that the procedure 
adopted by the R . S . S people in the matter of raising funds was by voluntary 
contributions and the Vibhag Parmukh used to deposit it in the central fund. Now 
argument of Mr. Chawla has been supported on the record by Shri Om Parkash 
Jain as well as Phul Singh Saini both of whom admittedly have been in the 
RS.S . for a pretty long time. The statement of Phul Singh Saini in this respect is 
as follows: 
" It is corrcut, that Shyama Charan Gupta has been mukh shikshak of 

Deputy Ganj Shakha It is also correct that Om Parkash Jain way 
mukh shikshak of Deputy Ganj Shakha, when Shri Shyunna Charan 
Gupta was Vibhag Adhikari. It is correct that there was a practice 
of guru dakshana prevailing in RS . S . shakha and it is continuing 
now . It is also correct that mukh shikshak used to collect the amount 
of dakshana in their presence. The procedure was that Vibhag 
Adhikari and mukh shikshak both used to deposit the amount ini 
the central body. Of coursc , it is correct that if mukh shikshak was 
not present, Vibhug Adhikari used to deposit the amount in the 

central office . 
Mr Om Parkash Jain also has stated as below in this connection : 
" In 1946 / 47, respondent No, 2 became the Vibhag Parmukh of the Saddar 

Buzar area . All the collections which were made from the shakhas 
in Saddar Bazar area were paid to the Vibhag Parmukh and he 
deposited those in the provincial office . Some people had raised 
objection that the money which was collected was not deposited in 
full in the funds of the body . Automatically impression was that the 

money was misappropriated by respondent No. 2 " . 
In cross- cxamination by the petitioner and respondent No. 2, this witness 
ifurther stated 
" The procedure about the raising of subscription was that it was collected 

in the presence of the audience but subsequently a list was prepared 
giving the amounts after having been counted and then made over to 
Vibhag Parmukh . In those days respondent No. 2 was the Vibhag 
Parmukh of Saddar Bazar , Shyama Charan Gupta in his capacity as 
Vibhag Parmukh used to deposit it with the provincial office . Once 
incharge of the provincial office in those days was Shri Mussadi Lal 
Parkash Chand Bhurgaya was the Provincial Şecrctary in those days. 
All Vibhag Parmukhs used to deposit the money with the provincial 
office incharge . It is correct that Shyama Charan did not deposit 
the gur -dakshana of 1946 in my presence but Mussaddi Lal asked me 
about the total amount of Şaddar Bazar . No action was taken by 
the provincial office incharge against the respondent in 1946 because 
there was no written record . About 20 thousand rupees were collected 
in 1946 in Saddar Bazar and about 25 , 000 rupees in 1947 . I was told 
by Mussadi Lal in 1946 that respondent No. 2 deposited about rupees 
18 thousand . I brought this to the notice of Basant Rao Oak , the 

Provincial Organizer ." 
This statement like one on the jeep speaks by itself and in sequence ends with 
a complaint made to Shri Oak . It is difficult to throw out this part of the state 
iment altogether sheer on the plea that Om Parkash Jain was inimical to Shyama 


- 


- - 


- 


= 


- - - - 


-- 


- 


214 111 GAZEITE OF INDIA . JANT TRII. 1979 /MAGHA Y, 1880 (l AKI I] : 

- - - - - - 
Charan Gupta . So far the enmity , it cuts both ways, and so far thç fact gues 
that Om Parkash Jain and Shyama Charan Gupta were associates and working 
together it rather be speaks that only those could know these facts who were in 
close touch at that time as to how the organization of R . S . S . was going. Mr. Om 
Parkash Jain has mentioned the names of Mussaddi Lal as well as of Basant Rao 
Oak which cannot be a figment of imagination This is another matter that 
Mussaddi Lal and Shri Basant Rao Oak have not been examined . The difficulty 
in the matter of trial is that within the judicial standard petitions are heard as a 
civil suit and the tribunals have to work within certain provisions of R . P . Act 
which also ordain that endeavour should be made to dispose of the petitions as 
expeditiously as possible and preferably within six months. This case had a 
protracted trial and went on for about 18 months. Both sides with open eyes con 
cluded their evidence. The parties presumably were supposed to know their case 
at the very beginning and could have proved the allegations one way or the other 
at the outset. Attempt was made by the petitioner at one stage after the close oť 
evidence to produce certain documents and the Tribunal allowed where it was 
possible in the excrcise of discretion to put those documents to Brin Mohan or 
Om Parkash Jain under the provisions of Order 13 rule 1 ( a ) for admission, even 
after close of the whole evidence . But the Tribunal was not working as a roving 
commission for the inyestigation of a certain matter and could not afford to act as 
wet -nurse to feed the cause of one side or the other by calling at all times wit 
nesses which might have thrown some light on the doubtful nature of such factors . 
It was in these circunstanccs that the Tribunal did not deem it necessary to call 
Mussaddi Lal and Shri Basant Rao Oak of its own accord . Parties of course did 
not ask for summoning them . In these circumstances , this allegation is not proved 
according to the standard of proof as laid down in the matter of corrupt practices 
by the Supreme Court vix by precise and conclusive proof . I would add only that 
all facts put together and considered in the light of the complaint made to higher 
authority , the conjunctive part of the element regarding falsity namely beiieved 
to be false or not believed to be true has not at all been established . 


The next item relates to Goa Satyagraha , I have already observed that this 
charge was more or less levelled against respondent No 2 in his public capacuy 
and does not relate to private character . The hard fact moreover is that he did 
not go to Goa ind it can safely inferred that those who gave publicity to the 
posters had the belief that he had avoided to court arjest. The next item iclates 
to the jeep . The erguinents of Mr. Chawla in this respect reproduced above are 
very detailed . By non -production of the account books presumably in possession 
of the family of Shri Shyana Charan Gupta , respondent No. 2 , the very best and 
material evidence has been withheld without assigring any reason , in regard to 
the purchase and subsequent sale of the jeep in question . The initial onus was 
dec .dedly on the petitioner who has been proscculing the case, admittedly in con 
junction with respondent No 2 . I am however conscious that sheer suspicions or 
basis for making imputations are not sumicient as held in some decisions but on 
the facts of this case , there is cvidence brought on the record that the basis was 
not without good grounds. In his connection , reference can be made to the 
statement of Phu ] Singh Saini who has definitely stated that R . S . S . branches had 
Jeeps and in Subzimandi where he was working a jeep was in possession of the 
R . S . S . branch . It was also stated that R . S . S . could not have the jeep in the name 
of the body and the registration was in the name of some one. Shri Shyams 
Charan Gupta was incharge of several branches 2.e . of a division stylcd vilhag 
parmukh and in the days of disturbances the possibility is not excluded that some 
jeeps were pressed in the service of R .SS. Om Parkash Jain ( D . W . 08 ) on this 
point has stated as follows: 


" R . S . S . people of Saddar Bazar had purchased a jeep by raising sub 

scriptions from the public and from the members of the body . That 
jeep was purchased in the name of respondent No. 2 AS he was 
incharge of Saddar Bazar. The reason for purchasing the jeep In 
his name was that R . S . S . did not purchase any thing in the name of 
the body . The jeep was purchased in the beginning of 1947 from 
E . S . Peare Lal, New Delhi. The number probably was DLA 1555 . 
In 1948 , it so happened that some people including myself were 
arrested and put in jail and the jeep was disposed of by respondent 
No. 2 in our absence . When we were released from jail and came 
back we called upon respondent No. 2 to give account of the money 
received by the sale of the jeep but he did not give any account. No 
money was deposited in the funds of R . S . Ş . body. The matter was 
reported to higher authority and he remained no longer incharge . 
All those persons who had worked with respondent No. 2 upto 1947 / 48 
had knowledge of all these facts stated by me. The members of the 
Yuvak Samaj comprised mostly of those workers who were workers. 


SEC . 3111 ) TUTE GVETLF OF INDIA JIVLAR 1 1979 /MAGHA 4 , 1980 

215 
= - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 

-- - - - - - - - - - 
of R .S .S . upto the year 1947 / 48 in Saudar Bazar and some ullcrs hack 

also joined Yuvak Samaj." 
This statement of Om Parkash Jain speaks for itself as it stands. It reads 
just a bare statement of certain events that followed about the sale of Jeep 
in question . The petitioner in the course of arguments however strongly criticised 
the statenient of Om Parkash Jain and asserted that this man was working in the 
congress and was thc cnemy of Shyama Charan Gupta and he should not be 
believed . An application for sanctioning the prosecution of Om Parkash Juin and 
Brij Mohan was also filed at one time but the l ribunal found that the election 
Tribunal under the povisions of the R . P . Act was žiot competent to take cognizance 
and as such had no jurisdiction to go into such inalters . An attempt was also 
mauc subsequently to prove Mr, Jain having wjiked for congress by pruducin 
some receipts in the hand of Om Parkash Jaill which he denied and explained 
that those receipts were not issued for raising subscription for the congress but 
relate to the subscriptions raised for Mohallah committee of which he was an 
oflice bearer . I have decmed it neccssary to refer to this part of the ugument 
against Om Parkash Jain in order to valuate us to whether this mon can be 
bel eved in respect of the allegations made by him against Shyama Chalan Gupta 
in the matter of jeep . I have already observed that he was alleged to huve been 
expelled from Jan Sangh and has a grudge against Shyama Charan Gupta but as 
also iemarked carlier his sworn tęsulmony on certain points cantiot be theowrı 
over - board when it relates to certain fucts which railer fit in with the circunt 
star.ces . The statement accordingly shall have is te looked into at pur with the 
statement of Shyama Charan Gupta who equally biars a grudge akunst Om 
Pakash Jain . Taking the statement on its face value, I find no good reason 10 
distelicve hun when he gives certain details about the purchase and tuc di. pocal 
of thc jeep . Shri Shyama Charan Gupta and the petitioner as discussed above 
carrot claim also to be straight in their depositions as to discredit the dissioents 
of their party and ask the Tribunal to believe thein vlone; more especiai; y when 
they have been disbelieved in their versions regarding the alleged talk between 
S .. . and the proprictors of Gupta Printing Works at the time of search and another 
alcged talk between Om Parkash Jain and Shiv Charan Gupta at the place of 
Shri Gulzari Lal Chopra , engendered and spoi1301ed by the petitioncı ind 
respondent No. 2 . In these circumstances the falsity of this allegation has alsсı not 
been proved as required under law . 


The only other item is with regard to trę specch against refugees at Ghaziabad , 
This has already been discussed and Mr. Trivedi in his arguments had frankly stated 
that it does not touch the personal character and as such does not satisfy the 
requirements of Section 12374 ) . The 5th ingredient of Section 123 ( 4 ) 15 that it 
was calculated to prejudice the election . I think it does not require any elaborate 
discussion . The poster was issued with the object of prejudicing the election of 
Shyama Charan Gupta and the only question is as to who is responsible for it . 
Mr. Chawla of course in this connection argued that there was time tur them to 
refute these allegations and relied upon a decision of Tribunal wherein it was held 
that if it was not refuted the presuinption was that the candidate hud citter 
admitted this allegation or did not card to refute them . But I think the evidence 
reveals that there was not much time for rcfutirg tlie allegations because the 
publication was made on 1st March 1957 and polling took place on 3rd March , 
1957. Morcover it is in evidence that Shyama Charan Gupta addressed sonic 
meetings wherein he told the people that the all - gations were not correct. This 
disposed of all the clements or ingredients of Section 123 ( 4 ) R . P . Act and in the 
light of the findings given above, issue No. 1 - A fails almost on all essential counts . 


48. The only other feature viz when this publication was made by Yuvak 
Samaj people (n. e . Om Parkash Sharma, Om Parkash Jain and others ) the publica 
tion was made by any person and it is to be seen whether it was in the interest 
of respondent No. 1. In the first place , I am of the opinion that Oin Parkash 
Jain and Om Parkash Sharma along with others published this poster for their 
own reasons because they did not like Shyamna Charan Gupta who was responsilie 
for their expulsion from Jan Sangh and as they knew some of his short - comings 
they , cither to satisfy their own revenge or in ihę interest of public as claimed 
by them , gave publicity to these in the forin of a poster according to the reso 
lution passed in the Yuvak Samaj and as such this was not done by any person 
in the interest of respondent No. 1 . But in the alternate if it was in the interest 
of respondent No . 1 as it must have helped to some extrant respondent No. 1, even 
if it was not done with his consent, the case shall fall within the perview of 
Section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( ii ) which reads as follows: 


" That the result of the election so far it concerns the returned candidate 

has been materially affected ( ii) by any corrupt practice committed 


.216 


THE GAME ITE OF INDIA : JANUARY 21. 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[Part II 


- 


- - 


in the interest of the returned candidate by a person other than the 
candidate or his election agent or a person acting with the consent 

of the candidate or the election agent. 
It will be seen that when i Calse falls under Section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) (ii) vir that a 
corrupt practice was committed in the interest of a candidate by any person , 
then it shall have to be proyed that it had materially affected the result of the 
clrction . In this connection , Mr Trivedi learned counsel for rcspondent No. 2 
in the course of arguments again frankly conceded that on material eiect ay 
embodied in issue No. 1 - B , there was no need of argument in view of the Supreme 
Court authority because it shall be in a case of small difference of votes where it 
might apply . Mr. Ram Phal, petitioner , however did not agree with the view 
taken by Shri Trivedi and submitted that the publication had materially affected 
the result of clection and referred to the deposition of some of the witnesses who 
in general have stated that these posters had changed their minds. Mr. Chawla 
on the other hand submitted that the allegation that voters were inclined to 
support respondent No . 2 was only a surmise and relied upon a Supreme Court 
decision reported in the matter of Vishasht Narain Sharma 19. Dev Chander and 
others reported in 1954 S . C ., 513 Their Lordships of the Supreme Couri led - - 
" It cannot be held that the mere fact that thc wusted votes are greater than 

the margin of votes between the returned candidate and the candidate 
securing the next highest number of votes must lead to the necessary 
inference that the result of the election has been materially affected 
That is a matter which has to be proved and the onus of proving 
it lies on the pctitioner . Should the petitioner failed to adduce satis 
factory evidence to enable the court to find in his favour on 15is 
point, who inevitable result would that the Tribunal would not intcr 

fere in his favour and would allow the election to stand." 
Shri Chawla further submitted that the margin of votes secured by the returned 
candidate respondent No. 1 and Shri Shyama Charan Gupta was of more than 
15 ,000 and in the light of the dictum laid down by their Lordships, and the evi 
dence of one of two witnesses, it was inconceivable that the result was in any 
way affected by the publication of these posters by the members of the Yuvak 
Samaj 


49 . Now in the first place evidence of general type can hardly be considered 
as satisfactory to prove that the result of election was affccted . Secondly , in the 
light of the dictum laid down by the Supreme Court , 17 this matter shall have 
to be proved and the onus lies on the petitioner ; it may be relevant to understand 
when a thing is said to be proved. Under section 3 of the Evidence Act, a fact 
is said to be proved when the court after considering ito matter before it believes 
it to exist . In this perspective, it is only by positive evidence indicating the 
probability of how the returned candidate would have farcd but for the alleged 
corrupt practice or say in this case if there had been no publication of posters 
Ex , P . 1 and P .2 by the Yuvak Samaj There is no such evidence and Mr. Trivedi, 
learned counsel for Shri Shyama Charan Gupta rightly and frankly conceded and 
did not press this part of issuc as said above . The result is that even if publica 
tion made by Yuvak Samaj pcoplc was made in the interest of respondent No. 1 , 
it did not affect the result of election materially so far it concerned the returned 
candidate . The issues No 1 - A as well as 1 - B fail and are decided against the 
petitioner . 

50. Issue No. 2. 

The allegations in respect of this issue are cmhodied in paragraphs 16 , 17 , 18 
and 19 ( a ) of the petition The corrupt practice alleged to have been committed 
is to the effect that Shri G . B . Pant, Hon ble Minister for Home Affairs , Central 
Government addressed a public meeting on 1st March 1957 and in the course of 
spcech with the desire to help congress party in general and returnod candidate 
in particular made a promise to the traders of Delhi that the Government would 
see the sales tax law amended with regard to cloth as to levy it at the place of 
production and would also include it in excise dụty . It was alleged inter -alza 
that a press note of the said speech was published in the issue of the Hindustan 
Times of 2nd March 1957 under the heading : - 

" Pant s assurance to traders" 
A copy of the Hindustan Times dated 2nd March 1957 embodying thc said promise 
WAS enclosed and marked as annexure D . These allegations were specifically 
amplifed in the amended plaint by the addition of a paragraph 19A , wherein it 
was submitted that the Union Minister for Home Affairs, spoke in support of the 


- 


- 


Sec. 3 (11 )] THE GAZE ITE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 217 
= - = = = = = = = = 

- - = = 
candidature of respondent No . I and that this meeting was organized by DPCC 
at the instance of respondent No. 1 and other Congress candidates in order to 
enlist support for them . That the Hon ble Home Minister at the request of 
respondent No . 1 and his election agent Shri Shiy Charan Gupta with an intent to 
exercise undue influence over the voters in the interest of the returned candidate 
in the matter of electoral right of casting their votes made a promise of amending 
the sales tax law as mentioned in the aforesaid paras of the petition . This 
paragraph closes with the words that the said promises were made in the interest 
of respondent No. 1 and they materially affected che result of the election in so 
far as it concerned the returned candidate . In support of this allegation , Mr. Ram 
Phal tracing the history of the sales tax law in Delhi in the first instance submitted 
that by the levy of sales tax in Delhi which is a distributing centre , its trade was 
very much affected and traders felt dissatisfied by the levy of this tax . The 
counsel proceeded that the Delhi Vidhan Sabha had become defunct iri November 
1956 and the Chief Commissioner , Delhi, authorised the enforcement of Bombay 
Sales Tax in Delhi by a notification which was made on 1st December 1956 , 
whereby the rate of sales tax was increased from Rs. 3 / 2 / - to Rs. 0 / 41 - with the 
result that the trading class was heavily hit at the commencement of the year 1957 
by the enforcement of the Act It so happened that the elections started at the 
sanie time and naturally some sort of assurance was necessary in order to satisfy 
thic tiaders for which Shri Pant was approached to give certain assurances to the 
mercantile community The courist asserted that the meeting was all anged by 
the DPCC At the instance of Shri Brahm Parkash and Shri Brij Mohan , General 
Secretary and both of them were present at the meeting which was held at Hauz 
Qazi on ist March 1957 . It was emphasised that there was no occasion to explain 
the policy of the Government but it was with 211 object n vicw that Shri Pant gave 
an assurance that the levy will be made at one place and not at multiple points , 
and that the same shall be inergcd in the excise duty at the place of production 
The learned counsel concluded that in the light of the above, this assuranc 
amounted to interferencc in the cxercise of the electoral right of the voter s 125 
contemplated by the provisions of Section 123 ( 1 ) as well as sub - section 123 ( 1 ) and 
the argument precisely was that it was not a declaration of policy but it was a 
promise which amounted to interference in the frcc cxercise of the electoral right. 
It was next argued that the speech of Shri Pant also amounted to undue influence 
as contemplated u / s 123 ( 2 ) . Coming to the evidence , Shri Ram Phal Teled upon 
the statements of Kisben Lal (PW . 1 ) , Shri Ram Chander Goel ( P . W . 12 ) , Bishen 
Sarup ( P . W . 13 ), Ram Babu ( P . W . 16 ) and Dulj Chand ( P . W . 18 ) 

51. On the other hand , Shri Chawla , learned counsel for the respondent zirgued 
that the meeting at Hauz Qazi was admittedly in support of Shri Radha Itanian 
another Congress candidate from the City constituency and respondent No. 1 , 
Shri Brahm Parkash had nothing to do with this meeting. Learned counsel 
proceeded that the agitation about the sales tax was already going on admittedly 
before the election started and the Home Minister was within his rights to declare 
the policy of the Governincnt, in order to meet the legitimate grievances of publr 
leaving the people to exercise the right of their vote for any one. It was next 
argued that sub - section ( 2 ) of Sertion 123 of RP. Act deals with undue influence 
which necessarily requires some thrcat, coercion or duress in case any th .ng said 
or asked for was not done , and in the absence of any evidence that any threat 
was given , the provisions u / s 123 ( 2 ) obviously do not apply . Reliance was placed 
on VI, ELR , 288 in the matter of Lingit Gowdu vs. Shiv Nanjapa , a decision of 
the Election Tribunal, Bangalore, wherein it was held 


“ A leader of a political party is entitled to declare to the pubiic a policy 

of the Government and ask the electorate to vote for his party without 
interfering with an electoral right and such declaration on his part 
would not amount to undue influence u / s 123 ( 2 ) of R . P Act. The 
fact that he happened to be a Ministei and Chief Minister of State 
would not deprive him of this right." 


Replying to the assertion that it was promised and as such he specch attracts 
the provisions of Section 123 ( 1 ) of the Act, Mr, Chawla contended that it was for 
the petitioner to prove that Shri Pant was doing it with this intent as c011 
templated u / s 123 ( 1 ) , namely bribery or reward . It was argued that the craf 
evidence of some witnesses is of general nature and does not prove the gravamen 
of the charge. Secondly , the evidence is unwortlıy of any credence, 


52 Now on the appreciation of the arguments , the allegation relating to this 
issue is to be considered from two stand points. namely ( 1 ) whether the speech 
is tantamount to a promise by the IIome Minister as contemplated u / s 123 ( 1 ) of 
the Act ( 2 ) whether the specch amounted 10 undue influence as contemplated 
u / s 123 ( 2 ) . In regard to the first , it will be seen that the word promise is 


218 


= 


- 


THE GAZE ITE OF INDIA , JANUARY 24 , 1959 / MAGHA 4 , 1880 [PART II 
= - = - - - - - - - - 

- - - 

= = - = - = 
used in the definition of bribery and the object is specified either to induce ( a ) a 
person to stand or not to stand or not to withdraw and retire from contest ( b ) an 
elector to vote and refrain from voting at an election . The word promise is 
again used in proviso ( b ) to Section 123 ( 2 ) which reads as follows: - -- 
" Declaration of public policy or a promise of public action or the mere 

exercise of a legal right without intent to interfere with an electoral 
right shall not be deemed to be interfered within the meaning of thi. 
clause." 


The word a promise of public action is used in this proviso in contra -distinction 
to the promise to induce an elector to vote. The speech delivered in a public 
meeting clearly falls within the ambit of the phrase " a promise of public action . 
Section 123 ( 1 ) moreover covers cases of bribery when any elector is approached 
either to vote or refrain from voting etc , and the argument advanced by the 
pctitioner is simply fallacious. The evidence adduced is also of general nature 
and of the PWs mentioned above who belong to the Jan Sangh party . One of 
them Shri Ram Chander Goel who is a youngman of 25 years, has deposed on all 
9 issues and is a man who was a convenient witness to say any thing and has 
already been disbelieved . Shri G . B . Pant was summoned by both sides but 
was dropped and was not examined . It is moreover significant to note that there 
is not an iota of evidence that respondent No . 1 or his election agent Shri Shiv 
Charan Gupta had approached Shri Pant as alleged in the amended particular s 
under pala 19A for giving this assurance to the traders . The speech moreover 
was delivered in the city constituency from where Shri Radha Raman was the 
candidate . In these circumstances , the requirements of Section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) are not 
at all satisfied nor any argument was advanced by the petitioner on this aspect 
of the question It appears that th - s part of the allegation embodied in para 19A 
was made in a reckless manner in order to connect respondent No. 1 or his 
election agent with the speech , to comply with the order passed by the then 
member of the Tribunal on preliminary issues on 18th June 1957 to the effect, that 
the particulars did not connect respondent No. 1 . The petitioner placed in this 
predicament by the order of the Tribunal could either have given up this 
allegation or could have said something to connect the respondent with the speech 
of Mr. Pant and he preferred to resort to the latter course, unmindful of the 
consequences in Aurry The pctitioner happens to be an advocate and it was 
becoming with his status that he should have acted in a responsible manner of 
having assured himself as to whether Shri Pant was actually approached by 
respondent No 1 or his election agent in order to placate the electorate in favour 
of respondent No . 1 , But he appears to have acted in a rash and careless manner 
at the time of amendment to bolster up his case . In respect of part ( 2 ) whether 
the speech amounted to undue influence the decision of Election Tribunal, 
Bangalore reported in VI, ELR , 288 quoted above is a complete answer . Further 
more , in the absence of any evidence of threat or injury, the allegation has no 
merit. The speech is manifestly covered under Proviso ( B ) of Section 123 ( 2 ) of 
the R . P . Act . In the result the allegations amplified in the amended particulars 
and set out in para . 19A are not at all proved and the issue No. 2A must fail and 
thc same is decided against the petitioner. Coming to issue No. 2B , whether the 
result was materially affected , suffice it to say that the issue No . 2 by itself has 
failed and issue No. 2 - B does not arise , 

53. Issue No. 3 

The allegations in respect of this issue are embodied in parágraphs 19. 
sub - clause ( c ) and paragraph 20 of the petition . The corrupt practice alleged 
to have been committed relates to the Chief Commissioner. Delhi, a Gazetted 
Officer of the Government of India and was to the effect that on or about 1st 
March 1957, Shri A . D . Pandit, Chief Commissioner , Delhi, with a view to render 
assistance and to further the prospects of respondent No. 1 s election , ordered the 
Commissioner of Sales Tax to issue a notification reducing the rate of sales tax 
from Rs. 6 per cent to 1 per cent. on jewellery made of gold and silver with 
effect from 1st March 1957 and a press note embodying thc said promise was issued 
on 4th March 1957, by Shri D . D . Kapila , Sales Tax Commissioner , Delhi. A copy 
of the press note was attached marked annexure E The averments were 
amplified further at the time of amendment of the particulars by the addition 
of paragraph 20 - A wherein it was stated that the respondent No . 1 and his election 
agent Shri Shiv Charan Gupta approached the gold and silver ornament jewellers 
asking them to vote for respondent No . 1 and told them that they would get the 
sales tax on silver and gold ornaments reduced by the Government. That 
respondent No . 1 and his election agent Shri Shiv Charan Gupta with this cbject 
weni to the Hon ble Home Minister, Shri Pant, in or about the last week of 
Foruary 1957 and requested h . m to reduce the sales tax in the interest of his 


- = 


- 


= 


SEC . 3 ( II) ] THE GAZI OFI A : JANUARY 24 , 13 , 4, 
- - - 
election , The Hon ble Home Minister , Shri Pant asked the Chief Coninissioner , 
Delhi, to reduce the rate of sales tax on gold and silver ornaments and accordingly 
a notification was issued as stated in para . 19 ( C ) and 20 in the original petition . 
That this has materially affected the result of the election in so far it concerns 
respondent No. 1 . The allegations are more or less on the same lines os discussed 
in the previous issue relating to Shri Pant and in this case Hon ble Home Minister 
is again introduced having been approached by respondent No. 1 and his election 
agent, Shri Shiv Charan Gupta , to ask the Chief Commissioner to meet the need 
ful. Before entering into the arguments of both sides , I may say at once that on 
this issue again no evidence was adduced to this effect that respondent No. 1 
or his election agent actually approached Shri Pant in this connection Shri 
Pant as said above was not examined in the case although summoned by both sides . 
In this context, in the ultimate analysis and in the absence of any evidence to 
connect respondent No . 1 or his election agent as required u / s 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) , the 
issue must fail, inasmuch as the reasoning given in deciding the issue No 2 also 
upplies with equnl force on the facts of this issue as well I would however 
bricfly take up the arguments of both sides for whatever worth they are in respect 
of the all egation . Shri Ram Phal in the course of arguments gave the history of 
the levy of tax on luxury goods at some length it was submitted that the rate 
of tax was uniform 1.e Rs. 3 / 2 / - per cent on certain commodities but Chicf Com 
missioner was given certain powers u / s 3 of the Act to characterise certain 
commodities to be luxury goods. The rate of tax was accordingly raiscd to Rs. BZ 
per cent on such commodities including gold and silver ornaments . On this some 
agitation was afoot on behalf of the jewellers in gold and silver ornaments and 
the Chief Commissioner was vested with powers to reduce or enhance or to 
prescribe some quantum in the case of certain types of jewellery . The Chief 
Commissioner however could exercise those powers under certain prescribed 
rules only with the approval of the Central Government In the neighbouring 
states, the rate was less and in Punjab it was 1 per cent. The Chief Com 
missioner in such circumstances at a material time i. e . at the close of February 
1957 reduced the rate to 1 percent in order to bring it at par with Punjab rate 
and thus rendered assistance in the furtherance of the election of respondent 
No. 1 . The press -note was issued of course on 4th March 1957. Discussing the 
evidence adduced in support of the allegation reliance was placed unon the 
testimony of P . W . 8 Shri 15 D . Kapila , P . W . 31 , Shri Balwant Rai Bansal, P . W . 32 , 
Ram Chand , P . W . 35 , Hem Chand, P . W . 39 Shu A . D . Pandit and PW 51 Shri Ram 
Phal petitioner . 

54. Shri Chawla , counsel for the respondent, on the other hand arguing in the 
course of reply on this issue submitted that tliere was no evidence worth - the -name 
on the record that the Chief Commissioner acted in the matter of reduction at the 
ingtunce of Shri Pant, the Hon ble Home Minister. Reference was made to the 
statement of Shri A . D . Pandit ( P . W 39 ) and Shri Kapila ( P . W . 8 ) and it was 
urged that the statement of these two witnesses are precise as well as detailed as 
to how the reduction was made and if the date synchronised accidentally near 
about the date of polling , there was no reason to doubt the veracity of the two 
gentlemen , who have deposed as petitioner s own witnesses as PWs. The press 
note again was issued after the polling 1.e . on 4th March 1957 and if the Govern 
mont wanted to help the Congress or placate the voters it could have donc on ist 
of March or even earlier . Replying to the arguments of Mi. Ram Phal that the 
members of the Advisory Committee knew and the information must have leaked 
out, the learned counsel dismissed it with the remark that there are so many 
things within tho knowledge of the bodies and it cannot be presumed to have 
been disclosed . 


Now the arguments speak by themselves and I need hardly add that P . W 8 
Shri Kapila and P . W . 39 Shri Pandit were examined on the side of the petitioner 
and their statements are explicit on the subject under discussion . The other 
oral evidence relied upon is of general nature in respect of agitation of the 
dralers and does not correlate respondent No. 1 with the reduction inasmuch 
as there is no evidence to show that the Chief Commissioncr , Shri Pandit , acted 
on the approach of Shri Brahm Parkash . Furthermore , the relief is sought 
under section 23 ( 1 ) which is manifestly not applicable. The allegations has 
no substance and must fail Issue No. 3 - A is , therefore, decided against the 
petitioner Icsuc No 3 - B does not arise in view of the finding given above. 

55. Issue No. 4 . 

The allegations in respect of this issue are embodied in paragraphs 21 and 
22 of the petition and the same were amplified at the time of amendment in 
paragraph 22 - A , wherein It was again added that respondent No. 1 and his elec 
tion agent, Shri Shiv Charan Gupta obtainer assistance from Ch . Murari Singh , 


220 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959, MAGIIA 4 , 1880 


[PART ID 


a Gazetted Officer , in the furtherance of the prospects of the election of respon 
dent No. 1 by fixing the compensation of land acquired by the Government 
for the benefit of Dera Ismail Khan Cooperative Society at Rs. 1 ,200 per bigha 
as against the usual market yalue of Rs. 5 ,000 per bigha and that this assistance 
given by Ch . Murari Singh materially affected the election in so far it concerned , 
respondent No. 1 . The argument of the petitioner put briefly on this issue was 
that a cooperative society named D . I. Khan Co - operative Society through their 
President Shri Bhagwan Dat Wadhwa approached respondent No. 1 who pro 
cured the assistance of Ch . Murari Singh for them . The direct evidence in 
this connection comprises of the statement of Shri Ram Chand ( P . W . , 32 ) at 
page 975 which is to the effcct that they had approached respondent No . 1 to 
enlist hış assistance and to get the land on reduced rate and he promised to 
do so . This witness Ram Chand is a saraf , resident of Lehna Singh Market 
of Subzımandı. His cvidence mostly relates to issuc No. 3 in relation to the 
cnhanced rate of tax on gold and silver ornaments and subsequent reduction 
as discussed in issue No . 3 . IIc has furthermore stated that he was a member 
of the D . I. Khan House Building Society , at page 936 of the file as below : - - 


" I am acquainted with the affairs of the Society . Mubarakabad belongs 

to a firm doing business in Chandni Chowk . One member of the 
firm is Gulab Chand or Gulab Singh . Many of us went to the 
kothi of respondent No . 1 and he assured his help in acquiring the 
land by compulsory acquisition . At the private negotiations between 
ownes and the society through one Govind Ram , did not succeed 
as the former demanded a high rate of Rs. 4 per yard . Shri Bhagwan 
Dat Wadhwa, Shri Takhat Ram , L . Ganesh Dass, Master Kisheni 
Chand and myself went to sce the respondent in the month of 
February 1957, last Sunday for the month . He told us that a deci 
sion had bcen taken that the society would get the land at Rs. 1 - 5 - 03 
per sq We had already met him twice in the same month on 
Sundays in this connection . At those meetings he had assured that 
lie would get the land acquired at Rc 1 per s. yard . He had told 
us at the last meeting thai he had helped us in making the decision . 
Shri Bhagwan Dat Wadhwa told them to lend their support to the 
Congress candidate and it was also decided that a poster he j - sued 
in the lame of prominent members of the Society having influencc 
over the members appearing to them to vote for the Congress 
candidate ." 


In cross - t xamination , this witness has stated that he had known the peti 
tioner since 1956 and had met him at the shop of Mahavirji Saraf who had 
engaged Shri Ram Phal, petitioner , as his counsel in a sales tax case . He was 
not on visiting terms with the petitioner but the petitioner met him after the 
Aling of the petition and asked for help in the petition and that the witness 
assured him to do so . That the petitioner had not mentioned the allcgation 
made in the petition to him . The manner of help which he was expected to 
give was also not specified . The petitioner met him for the third time, 4 days 
back and wanted him to give evidence . That he was a member of RSS before 
1946 . That he was arrested after the murder of Mahatma Gandhi in the Govern 
ment action against R . S . S . The witness has further stated in cross - examination 
that he does not remember when the notification about the land was issucd 
nor can he give even the approximate time or the year. He did not know when 
the land was surveyed and could not say what rate the owners claimed before 
the Land Acquisition Collector and the society s offer . That he had not read 
the agreement nor he had a talk with the owners or any representative him 
self, 


Shri Chawla made a short shrift of the whole argument and placed his reliance 
on the judgment of the Punjab High Court delivered by Justice Falshaw in 
which this question has been fully gone into . The operative part of the judg 
ment at page 5 reads as follows: 


" The essence of the argument is thus that in preferring to give the land 

to the respondent Society for development the Govenment either 
acted mala nde or infringed the principle of cqually before the law 
embodied in Article 14 . The main allegation of mala fides was that 
the acquisition proceedings had been rushed through earlier in 1957 
with an eye on the General Election which were about to take place 
at that time. In my opinion , there is nothing whatever in this sug 
gestion . The relevant Notifications had been issued in June and 
October 1955 long before the General Elections were contemplated 


SEG. 8 ( 


and the acquisition proceedings had been going on during the year 
1956 . the petitioners claim being presented before the Land Acquisition 
Collector in February 1956 . In the circumstances , it would seem to 
have been high time in January 1957 that the acquisition proceedings 
should be brought to a conclusion , The general allegations of 
tavouritism also appears to be unfounded in so far as it relates 
to any part : cular favouritism shown towards the Society which is 
the respondent in the present petition , since it is well known that 
the Government was acquiring land on behalf of other socicties 
founded for the purpose of providing residential accommodation on 
the cooperative basis . I have already rcieril a to one such case 
which canc before this Court by way of a similar Writ Petition , 
and I have also dealt with another casc concerning lana acquired 
by the Government on behalf of the Cooperative Society respon 
sible for developing the so - called Friends Colony , and to my mind 
the decision that such acquisitions are of a public purpose settles 
the question of alleged mala fides. As far Article 14 is concerned , 
an attempt was made to argue that the present petitioners also 
intended to develop the land as a residential estate on cooperative 
lines and that llicrefore there was no justificacion for taking the 
land away from them and giving it away to the Socicly . Out of 
all the documents produced however ihere is nothing whatever to 
show that the petitioners had any intention of developing the land 
on a cooperative basis except an isolated sentence in the letter, dated 
21st August, 1951 to the Improvement Trust in which it was stated 
that a Colony would be developed on a cooperative basis on the 
most modern lines and according to the Municipal bye - laws. There 
is , however , nothing whatever to slow iliat tot petiçioners had taken 
any steps whatever to enrol any members or get any cooperative 
socicty registered under the appropriate act. There is no sugges 
tion that the petitioners are displaced persons, as the members of 
the respondent Society must be , and in my opinion there is nothing 
whatever to show that they intended to develop the land other 
wise than as a commcrcial proposition out of which they expected 
to make considerable pronts on their original investment. Thus if 
in fact there was any favouritism in taking away the land from 
the petitioners for development by the respondent Society , it seems 
to me to be fully justified and in accordance with the general spirit 
shown by the Government both in legislation and in administrative 

acts carried out for the benefit of displaced persons as a class." 
The lcarncd counsel furthermore relied on the award , a copy of which was 
placed on the record and contended that the whole procedure was duly gone 
into as borne out by the award and the proceedings had been going on since 
1955 . Mr. Chawla also made a reference to the poster Ex . P . 10 referred to in 
the statement of Ram Chander Goel ( P . W . 32 ) and submitted that the poster 
was issued on behalf of various societies of refugecs and Bhagwan Dut Wadhwa 
was one of them where he has given his designation , President of the Frontier 
Central Refugee Sabha , Delhi, and not as President of the D . I. Knan Society . 
Mr. Chawla also referred to the statement of respondent No . 1 and submitted 
that respondent No. 1 was very frank to admit that Society peoplc approached 
him for acquisition of land in his capacity as Minister. He however did not 
rememiler the names of the persons who came to him but Wadhwa was one 
of them . That as a Minister his policy was to help all the cooperative societies 
of Delhi in the acquisition of land and in persuance of that he advised the 
revenue authorities to acquire land for such Sociсties . But he did not meddle 
in the malter of rates , as that rested with the Land Acquisition authorities . 

57. Now the point in dispute requires no elaboration inasmuch as the Judg 
ment of the Punjab High Court clinches the issue wherein a specific finding has 
been given and it is binding on this Tribunal. The deposition of Ram Chand 
( P . W . 32 ) is on the face of it incredible as revealed in the cross - examination 
that he was approached by the petitioner to help him and the witness presum 
ably appears to have stated extravagently in his deposition in order to connect 
respondent No. 1, with the assistance . In point of fact according to the judg 
ment of the Punjab High Court , no concession or any assistancc was forth 
coming. The allegation has no merit and the issue must fail. Issue No. 4 - A 
accordingly is decided against the petitioner. 

Issue 4 - B does not arise in view of the finding given above. 
58. Issues 5 and 9 . 


222 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 / MAGHA 4 , 1880 [Part II 

- - - - 
The allegations regarding this issue are contained in paras. 23 and 23A and 
relate to the making of payment to certain yoters who brought back the ballot 
pupers without casting them at places mentioned in para . 23A for the purpos 
öt " putting these ballot papers again through liusted persons of respondent No. 1 . 
The alleeation is one of bribery that one of the ballot papers were purchased 
för putting the samc again through trusted persons in he ballot boxes . The 
allegation in the other issue No. 9 embodied in paras. 28 and 28 - A of the peti 
tion also is on the point of bribery that money was paid to the voters for casting 
their yotes . Both the issues can be conveniently taken up together because the 
cvidence in support of these two issues is the same, namely the deposition of 
P . W . 22, p . w . " 23 and P . W . 25 . Now P . W . 22 , Shri Govind Ram Verma stated 
that voters of his locality had told him that they had nothing to do with Jan 
Sangh or Congress and would vote for the candidate who would pay them moncy . 
Thai Shri Shiv Charan Gupta and Shri Amar Nath Chawla went to the Bastı 
Bagarian and stayed their for half an hour. As soon as they came back voters 
in large groups began to come to the polling station . In cross - examinatiori. 
he admits that he has been connected with Jan Sangh since its inception . That 
he had prepared the list of voters for whose support for Jan Sangh they could 
count. The list was not prcscrved after the election was over . Then he des 
troyed the list 2 / 3 days after the counting was over. That hc was elected 
Municipal Commissioner on Jan Sangh ticket. It will be seen that this witness 
does not say any thing on issue No. 5 about the purchase of votes which were 
returned for re - deposit through trusted persons and on issue No . 9 his testi 
mony is vague and not worthy of any trust on the face of it . He does not say 
any thing thut any money was paid in his presence ; and appears to have depo - cd 
in a partisan spirit inasmuch as he was elected on Jan Sangh ticket . Krishen 
Lal ( P . W . 23 ) has stated that he was the polling agent for respondent No. 2 . 
When he came out of the polling station , workers who met him told him that 
the voters had been bribed . He did not see any bribe passing . This evidence 
is of no avail on issuc No. 5 in respect of the purchased ballot papers and with 
regard to issue No . 9 , does not prove any thing because the evidence is of hearsay 
nature . P . W . 25 , Parbhati Lal who is a Municipal Commissioner from Basti 
Julahan , Municipal constituency No. 34 admits that he was working for respon 
dent No. 2 during the last parliamentary clcctions and stated that he stood on 
Jan Singh ticket in 1951 and lost to the Congress candidate . HC again stood 
for Delhi Assembly on Jan Sangh ticket in 1952 and lost it and the Congress 
candidate succccded . On the allegations relating to issue Nos . 5 and 9 , this 
witness has stated as below : 
" On the polling day at 3 PM , in galli No. 11 and Pahari Dhiraj, I saw 

Shiv Charan Gupta distributing money to the voters. The residents 
of that galli carry on many professions as poultry business in winter 
and khas ki chick manufacture in summer . With him were Mr. 
Amar Nath Chawla and one more person whose name I do not 
know ." 


" I cannot tell the names of the voters whom money was paid . The voters 

who received the money made a similar demand from me but I 
expressed my inability . I did not see Shri Shiv Charan Gupta in 
my constituency or the area in which I worked betore the polling 

day." 
In cross - examination , this witness has further stated that he knew that 
bribery was an election offcnce and when he saw bribery being paid , he brought 
it to the notice of the police which expressed its helplessness , but he did not 
submit any written report to any authority. He of course informed respondent 
No . 2 but could not say whether respondent No. 2 made any complaint about 
The mal- practices . The Election Omcers were present in the polling booths 
He did not bring the matter to the notice of any such officer . This witness again 
does not say any thing about issue No. 5 regarding the purchase of ballot papers 
and his evidence on issue No . 9 is that money was paid in his presence by Shiv 
Charan Gupta . Shri Shiv Charan Gupta in his deposition has emphatically deniec 
having gone in that Basti on the polling day . The matter as admitted by the wit 
ness was not reported to the polling officers who were present or any written corr. 
plaint made . The assertion of this witness has not been corroborated by any other 
witness and owing to the partisan nature of his deposition no finding can be given 
on the sole testimony of this witness about bribery which is to be proved by 
cogent and satisfactory evidence. There is yet another piece of evidence brought on 
the record regarding issuc No. 5 and that is the statement of P . W . 3 , Shri Hans 
Raj, Chief Electoral Officer to which the petitioner did not refer . This explains 
the whole position regarding the two ballot papers mixed up at the time of 


SEC . 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


223 


counting. In the light of the statement of P . W . 3 the allegation is devoid of 
any substance . Both the issues accordingly fail and are negatived . 

Issue 5 - B does not arise in view of the finding given above . 
59. Issue No. 6 . 

The allegations about this issue are embodied in paragraph 24 which remain 
cd intact and was not amplified even at the time of amendment. In the first 
part of para , 24 in general, it was stated that respondent No. 1 or his agent or 
any person on his behalf procured the assistance in the furtherance of the pros 
pects of election from persons in the service of Government and amongst others 
the following particulars are set out. The second part of this paragraph relates 
Lo Shri Gopi Nath Aman who was mentioned to have convassed and persuaded 
the voters to cast their votes in favour of respondent No . 1. For facility of 
reference , this paragraph which is a short one is reproduced below : 
" That Shri Gopi Nath Aman who is the Chairman of the Public Relations 

Committce of the Delhi Administration and as such as a Govern 
ment servant, canvasscd and persuaded voters to cast their votes 
in favour of respondent No, 1 and that as such the said respondent 
No. 1 obtained and procured the services of said Government ser 
vant in the furtherance of his election prospects and as such it was 
deterimental to the interest of respondent No. 2 , and that amongst 
others said Gopi Nath Aman on 24th February 1957 unduly influ 
cnccd the voters of Faiz Ganj and Tokriwalan , Patri Nahar of the 

said constituency ," 
The above is the allegation in all which attracted good deal of evidence by 
both sides . The petitioner examined about a score of witnesses who deposed 
that Gopi Nath Aman participated in a procession which was taken out on 24th 
February 1957 ( Sunday ) and in the coursc of the procession he went into the 
lanes or otherwise came in contact with persons to whom he convassed for giving 
votes to respondent No. 1 . The respondent also examined about equal number 
of witnesses from this area , namely faiz Ganj and Teliwara , ctc., who deposed 
that no big procession was taken out and processions gencrally taken out on 
Sunday or on holidays were of small groups and that Gopi Nath Aman was 
never seen in any of the processions. The cvidence of these witnesses is of 
negative nature to the effect that Shri Aman was not seen in that arca and had 
not joined any procession . On the other hand , the witnesses examined by the 
petitioner have positively stated that they had seen Shri Gopi Nath 
Aman in the procession and some of them have stated also that he was 
seen convassing voters for the purpose of vote -catching. The other aspect of 
the question is as to whether Gopi Nath Aman can be treated as Government 
servant for the purpose of Section 123 ( 7 ) of the Act. In this perspective there 
are three points to be dealt with , namely ( 1 ) whether Shri Gopi Nath Aman 
is a Government servant as contemplated under Section 123 ( 7 ) of the Act , ( 2 ) 
whcther he had actually joined a procession taken out on Sunday, the 24th 
February 1957, and its effect and ( 3 ) Whcther he canvassed for respondent No . 1 
for the purpose of catching votes for him . 

60 . Shri Ram Phal arguing on this issue submitted that Shri Gopi Nath Aman 
is a gazetted officer as deposcd by Shri A . D . Pandit ( P . W . 39 ) ana as such 
he can be treated as a Government servant because gazetted officers are men 
tioned in the categories of the persons specified as Government seryants for 
the purpose of Section 123 ( 7 ) of the Act . It was further argued that he was 
whole time employee of the Central Government and he is being paid Rs. 1 ,000 
(Axed ) from the consolidated funds of the Central Government as deposed by 
P . W . 39 , who also stated that some powers of the Chief Commissioner have 
also bcon delegated to Shri Gopi Nath Aman . The counsel maintained that the 
statement of Shri A . D . Pandit ( P . W , 39 ) is conclusive on the point that Shri 
Gopi Nath Aman is a Government servant. Mr. Ram Phal also made specific 
reference to the statements of P .Ws. 9 , 12 , 19 , 20 , 29 , 40 , 42 , etc ., and submitted 
that no less than 17 witnesses have deposed that Shri Aman had participated 
in the procession . It was further argued that some of the witnesses have also 
named persons whom Shri Gopi Nath Aman canvassed in the course of proces 
sion . Lastly , it was submitted that the participation of Shri Gopi Nath Aman 
in the procession as well as canyassing was proved by positive evidence and 
that by itself proved that the assistance was procured and obtained by respon 
dent No. 2 in whose interest he worked , 

61. On the other hand , Mr. Chawla learned counsel for respondent No. 1 
invited the attention of the Tribunal to paragraph 24 itself and pointed out that 


224 

THE GAZET LE OF INDIA : JANUARY 21, M . A 4, 1880 r IL 
-- - - 

= = = = 
So far the obtaining and procuring the services of Shri Gopi Nath Aman was 
concerned, it did not form the basis of any allegation , and was left as a matter 
of inference . The argument was reinforced that the words and as such respon 
dent No. 1 procured the services of Gopi Nath Aman clearly show that the 
pctitioner has inferred by the activities of Shri Gopi Nath Aman that his scr 
vices were procured and obtained otherwise the allcgation was not in fact made 
at all or was proved by any evidence brought on the record . The learned 
counsel urged that the procuring and obtaining of the services of Government 
servant is the gravemen of the charge and it is wanting in the allegation itsell . 
The other draw back in the allegation according to Mr. Chawla was that the 
participation in any procession was no where mentioned in the petition at all 
and the whole evidence on this point was a got -up and false cvidence produced 
on party lines and as such the witnesses were prepared to come forward for 
Jan Sangh and to depose any thing they were asked for to do . The learned 
counsel urged that so far the allegation of undue influence was concerned , in 
the absence of any evidence of personal injury , threat or displcasure , it was 
simply untenable and frivolous. Regarding any assistance given by a Govern 
ment servant, Mr. Chawla argued that the oral evidence produced by the peti 
tioner was of no evidential value because the witnesses deposed on a point which 
was not at all mentioned in the petition , namely participation in procession 
and the other cvidence of canvassing was again incredible inasmuch as it was 
futile to suggest that in the course of the procession Gopi Nath Aman (who 
was stated to be in front) was talking about for the purpose of catching votes 
or went into the lanes for that purpose leaving the procession . The learned. 
counsel maintained that the story by itself is concocted one and its tace value 
is not worthy of any credence. Lastly , it was urged that 24th February 1957 
was a Sunday and it appears that the petitioner utilized this date for the reason 
that Gopi Nath Aman could have been frce on that date , a closing day . Mr. 
Chawla also rrferred to the depositions of the various witnesses relied upon by 
the petitioner and while taking the Tribunal into their evidence pointed out 
that cvery onc of them was in the Jan Sangh party and as such their evidence 
was of tainted nature . It was also pointed out that the evidence was discre 
pant because some of the P . W .s have stated that the procession taken out on 
Sunday , the 24th of February , comprised over 50 to 60 persons while others 
gave the number to be 500 to 700 . Specific refcrcnce was made to P . W . 44 
who has stated that Shri Aman had gone to him four times to canvass him . 
Mr. Chawla contended thut this witness was not in thc list of witnesses at all 
and was brought of his own accord and the nature of the evidence that he 
was approched 4 times by itself shows the absurdity of his cvidence . On the 
crucial point whether Gopi Nath Aman is a Government scrvant for the pur 
pose of Section 12317 ) of the Act, Mr. Chawla argued that the test laid down 
is as to whether the Government has any control over the duties and the func 
tions that one is discharging . Reliance was placed on IX , ELR , 451 in the matter 
of Nihal Chand Vir Chand Seth ys. V . R . Patel, decision of the Elcction Tribunal, 
Bombay and VII , ELR , 374 in the matter of Mehta Goverdhan Lal Girdhari Lal 
vs. C . A . Dalumiyan , also a decision of the Bombay Tribunal. In the latter 
case regarding Mchta Gowardhan Lal, the Tribunal hold that 
“ Thc non -official secretary of a District Development Board of the Govern 

ment of Bombay holds an office of prolt but he does not hold an 
office under the Government of Bombay , as there is no relation 
ship of master and servant between him and the Government Mere 
power of appointment and dismissal and payment of honorarium 
from the Government Treasury and general supervision and control 
cannot make a person a servant of the Government, if he has not 
agreed to be subjected at all times to the orders and directions of the 
Government not only with regard to the nature of the work and 

also in the manner of doing it." 
In the other case Nihal Chand Vir Chand Seth , it was also held that 
" The mere fact that a person may be getting an honorarium from the 

State or may be paid travelling allowance by the State or that 
the appoințingi authority is the Stute or his services are liable 
to be terminated by the State are not conclusive on the question 
whether he is serving the State or not. These are the facts that 
may be taken into consideration but the real test is the right of 
control, the manner in which that person does his work . A non 
official secretary of District Rural Development Board in the State 
of Bombay is not a person serving the Government although he may 
hold an office of profit under the Government, and obtaining the 
assistance of such a person would not , therefore, amount to a corrupt 
practice under Section 123 ( 8 ) ." 


- 


Sco . 3 ( ii)] THE G IZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959/MAGHA 4, 1880 225 

DS 
62. No authority on the contrary was cited at the bar on the side of the 
petitioner and I too have not been able to lay my hand on any authority where 
This question was discussed . A decision in Miscellancous Appeal No . 2 of 1958 
has recently been published in Government of India Gazette Extraordinary on 
September 6 , 1958 in the inatter of Shri Y . S . Parmar vs. Shri Hira Singh Pal 
and others . In this case, the election of the returned candidate Shri Parmor 
was challenged on the plea that he had procured the services of one Amar Singh , 
a member of the Armed Forces (appointing him as polling agent of Sheopur 
No. 13 on 25 -5 -57 ) as well as some other persons including Shri Pratap 
Singh Kairon , Chief Minister of Punjab , Shri M . M . Shah and Shri Abid Ali, 
Labour Deputy Minister . The lcarned Judicial Commissioner , Himachal Pardesh 
foiund that the cvidence in thc case of others was not believable and the plea 
was rejected for want of evidence of having procured and obtained the assist 
ance of Government servants in connection with election . Regarding the appoint 
ment of Amur Singh as polling agent, the learned Judicial Commissioner how 
ever held that under the amended Act of 1956 in perview of the explanation , 
namely a person shall be deemed to assist in the furtherance for the purpose 
of candidate s elcction if he acts as clection agent or a polling agent or a count 
ing agent of that candidate , Shri Parmer procured and obtained the services 
of a Government servant by appointing Amar Singh as his polling agent. Hence 
the assistance by Amar Singh was found within the mischief of the provisions 
of Section 123 ( 7 ) . The case of Amar Singh who was a member of the Armed 
Forces and had acted as a polling agent, is obviously distinguishable . In the 
instant case , it is to be seen whether Gopi Nath Aman satisfies the definition 
of a Government servant as contemplated under Section 123 ( 7 ) of the Act and 
furthermore whether his seryices were procured and obtained and he actually 
rendered assistance by canvassing for respondent No. 1. On the first point, 
namely whether Shri Aman is a Government servant, the evidence of Shri A . D . 
Pandit ( P . W . 39 ) is of course very rclevunt. Shri Pandit has stated in this 
connection as below : 
“ Shri Gopi Nath Aman has been the Chairman of the Public Relations 

Committee since December , 1957. Government of India appointed 
Shri Gopi Nath Aman and the Government of India alone can remove 
him from the post . He is being paid Rs. 1 ,000 as salary per month 
from the consolidated fund of the Union of India . He is a full time 
employee of the Government of India . He presides over a com 
mittee which is intended to advise the Government on matters of 
public relations generally . His appointment was by notification 
No. F . 17 / 21 / 56A , dated ilth December 1956 . The notification must 

have been published in the Government Gazette." 
In cross- examjnation of course , Mr. Pandit has stated that Public Relations 
Committee is founded to act as a liaison between Government and public and 
all shades of opinion are represented in the Public Relations Committee. The 
members of the Cominittee are not paid exccpt those who are Government ser 
vants and members ex -officio . Mr. Aman s appointment was not made under 
any statutc or rules. That he had seen reports relating to his attending Cong 
ress meetings. He did not take any objection on behalf of the Delhi Adminis 
tration . He is a Government servant as he draws salary from the Government 
Treasury . Mr. Pandit has further stated in cross - examination that orders of 
appointment of Government servants do not specify what he is supposcd to do 
or not to do and that he considered him as Government servant because he 
draws salary from the funds of the Government, and is a whole- time cmployee . 

63 . Now the reasons given in the statement of Shri A . D . Pandit are fully 
cxplained in the authoritics cited above , namely appointment, drawing of hono 
rarium removal, etc . These terms however did not constitute any one to be 

Government servant for the purpose of Section 123 ( 7 ) of the Act which was 
123 ( 8 ) in the old Act . The test laid down is whether the Government has any 
control over the person and that what is the nature of his work . In the two 
Bombay cases referred to above , the person concerned were Secretary of the 
District Rural Development Board and Honorary Secretary of the District 
Drvelopment Boord . While in this case, Mr. Aman is the Chairman of the Public 
Relations Committee . Rural Development Board appears to be working for the 
uplift of the rural area for the furthcrance of a certain scheme as observed 
by the Tribunal at page 464 in Nihal Chand s case . In this casc , the appoint 
mnt of 

M o nmanninn hr ner 3 home in orria " to contact the public 
for understanding their grievances, as a ljuison betwcen Government and public . 
The nature of their work and thcir functions have no whcrc been specified . In 
view of these circumstances, the analogy with the Honorary Secretary and the 
Secretary of the Rural Development Board is almost complete . I, therefore, 


226 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[Part I 


- 


- 


- - - - 


fecl inclined to hold that Shri Aman cannot be treated as a Government servant: 
for the purpose of Section 123 ( 7 ) of the Act. This is a different matter that he 
is a gazetted officer and his appointment is notified in the gazette but the expres 
sion gazetted officer is very often used and is no where defined . In the Secre 
tariat appointments , postings and transfers of certain officers are notified in 
the gazette. There are however many other kinds of functionary whose appoint 
ments are gazetted and they will not be treated as gazetted officers if they are 
not in the service of the Government. Thus to apply the clausc regard shall 
have to be made as to what were their duties in the service of the Government. 
In this case, the duty of Shri Aman is to approach the public , find out their 
grievance and work as a liaison officer between Government and public . He 
is more a servant of the public as he has to find out their grievances and place 
them before the Government and the control of the Government on his duties 
and the scheme under which he is working is not specified inasmuch as the 
work for the redress of public grievances must vary from time to time. Judged 
in this context, I am of the opinion that Mr. Aman does not satisfy the condi 
tions laid down under Section 123 ( 7 ) and cannot be treated as a Government 
servant. I however felt and had called upon Mr. Chawla also to explain as 
to why Shri Aman was not examined when he was served out Mr. Chawla 
submitted that in his view he was not a necessary witness and had been drop 
ped . The counsel submitted that the decision was to be arrived at on the evid 
ence brought on the record and his evidence could not have improved in any 
manner on the deposition of the Chief Commissioner , Shri A , D . Pandit. My 
view was that Mr, Aman should have rather welcomed the opportunity of hav 
ing come forward and to depose on the allegations made against him but he 
did not appear and the Tribunal did not deem it necessary to call him as a 
court witness for reasons already described while dealing with issue No. 1 . 
With regard to the cvidence adduced by the petitioner, that Shri Aman had 
canvassed for respondent No. 1 , I have no hesitation in coming to the conclu 
sion that the evidencc although positive is not worthy of any credence . The 
impression left on my mind on going through this mass of evidence is that the 
itch of party power and the lure of political gain has cramped the soul of the 
people and the people are not wanting who can be used as a convenient wit 
ness to support their party and as such it is out of anguish and not of anger 
that I say that the record in regard to oral evidence is rather a stinking mess . 
The defence evidence is of negative character of course and is rf no conse 
quence, but the witnesses examined by the petitioner on this issue curiously 
enough depose about the participation of Gopi Nath Aman in a procession to 
which no reference was made in the particulars given in the petition . Regard 
ing the oral evidence of undue influence having been exercised by Shri Aman 
on the voters , it is also superfluous in the light of the order passed by the then 
learned Member of the Tribunal at the time of disposing of the preliminary 
issues and allowing an opportunity for amendment. The operative part of this 
order reads as follows: - - 
" The corrupt practice of undue influence committed by Shri Gopi Nath 

Aman cannot however be allowed to be pleaded as an independent 
and distinct corrupt practice because no where the connection of 
Gopi Nath Aman with respondent No . 1 has been shown . Undue 
influence on voters by him , is certainly mentioned as the assistance 
rendered by him and was objectionable because he was a Govern 
ment servant. The exercise of undue influence by him as a person 
apart from that capacity and thus affecting the election of respon 
dent No . 1 is neither pleaded as such nor the particulars appear. 
At the time of framing of issues and at the time of leading of 
evidence it shall be taken as a ruling of the Tribunal that the peti 
tioner has not pleaded undue influence on voters by Shri Gopi 
Nath Aman as a distinct corrupt practice affecting the election but 
it shall be taken only as specification of assistance which the Govern 

ment servant rendered and which respondent No . 1 procured ." 
In the light of this ruling already given by Tribunal the question of undue 
influence having been cxercised on the voters by Shri Aman as deposed by 
several P . W . s is of no avail. In regard to the allegation that he rendered any 
assistance in his capacity as Government servant, Shri Aman as held above 
does not satisfy the conditions of a Government servant as contemplated under 
Section 123 ( 7 ) . And furthermore, it was not alleged that his services were 
procured and obtained by respondent No. 1 , in his capacity as Government 
servant much less proved by any cyidence on the record . In para . 24 of the 
petition referred to in the beginning , it was alleged that " as such the said res 
pondent No. 1 procured and obtained the services of the said Government 


- 


- 


Sec. $ ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 227 

- - - -- - 

- - - - - - - - - 
servant" . It was inferred only although the procuring of scrvices is the first 
essential element of the charge in relation to corrupt practice under the provi 
sions of Section 123 ( 7 ) of the R . P . Act. In the result , the issue fails on both 
counts and is decided against the petitioner , 

64 . Issue No. 7 . 

It relates to the infringment of rules 18 .( 2 ) and 56 ( iii ) ( d ) of the Electoral 
Rules ( for thc conduct of Election and Election Petitions ) . The allegations in 
this respect as embodied in paragraphs 25 and 26 arc to the cffcct that the ballot 
boxes of polling station No. 20 situate at M . B . Primary School, Sohan Gani, 
house No. XII / 1799 , polling station No. 37 M . B . School, Basti Panjabian , Subzi 
mandı. Delhi, house No. XII / 2495 and polling station No. 48 situate at Rajwar 
Shiksha Niketan , house No. XII / 5212 , Kohla Puri Road , Jawahar Nagar were 
found to be defective inasmuch as they could be opened without breaking the 
green seals of the said ballot boxes and as such by virtue of the position of 
these defective boxes , penalty was incurred under the aforesaid rules , namely 
non - compliance with the rules as contemplated under Section 100 ( 1 ) ( a ) ( 3 ) of 
the RP. Act. The petitioner arguing in support of the allegations contended 
that the mechanism of the boxes was defective and they could be opened with 
out breaking the green paper seals Reliance was placed on the evidence of 
Shri Kidar Nath Sahni (PW . 40 ) and Shri Shyama Charan Gupta ( P . W . 52 ) . 
According to the statement of these witnesses , on 6th March 1957 in the night 
respondent No. 2 telephoned Mr. Hans Kaj , Chief Electoral Officer and request 
ed for an interview and expressed app : Chension regarding the tampering of 
ballot boxes . The Chief Electoral Oncer on the following day made an enquiry 
in the presence of Shri Laxmi Narain , Returning Omcer and when the boxes 
regarding Polling Station No . 20 were opened , it was found that one of the 
boxes relating to respondent No, ? could be opened without breaking the green 
paper seal. Respondent No. 2 and his clcction agent accordingly renewed the 
complaint and asked for an opportunity for examining other boxes as well but 
Ch . Laxmi Narain was annoyed and blamed them for having touched the boxes 
and spoiled its mechanism . A complaint was accordingly made to the Chief 
Electoral Officer in writing whereupon due enquiry was made pertaining to the 
boxes relating to polling station No. 48 . 

65. Mr. Chawla in reply referred to the statement of the Chief Elcctoral 
Omcer , Shri Hans Raj ( P . W . 3 ) and maintained that according to his statement 
Shri Shyama Charan Gupta , respondent No. 2 got more votos at polling station 
No. 37 than Shri Brahm Parkash and in the absence of any evidence on the 
point that there was tampering as said in para . 28 the grieyance has no founda 
tion . It was also argued that Shri Hans Raj has definitely stated that respondent 
No. 2 or his companions did not complain that the boxes of polling station No. 37 
had been tampered with and the mechanism if at all found defective was of no 
consequence becacse the seal of the bag and other particulars were found quite 
intact. And even if the green paper seal was defective in any way , it did not 
amount to tampering which was not possible . Mr. Chawla concluded that at 
any rate , non - compliance of rules was not proved , becausc in Rule 18 ( 2 ) the 
word r is disjunctive and if one of the two is found intact the condition was 
satisfied. Now Rule 18 ( 2 ) reads as follows: -- - 
" It shall be so constructed that a ballot paper can be inserted therein 

during the poll only but cannot be withdrawn thcrcfrom without 

the lock unlocked or the seals being broken ." 
86 , Now Shri Hans Raj, Chief Electoral Officer ( P . W . 3 ) has explained the 
whole pesition in details and it is desirable to reproduce the relevant portions 
as below which are self - explanatory : --- 
" Respondent No. 2 along with his election agents Shri Kidar Nath and 

Shri Misra , Advocates came to my residence on the morning of 
7th March at about 7 . Respondent No. 2 and his election agents 
told me that the ballot boxcs from polling station No . 37 and a few 
other ballot boxes could be opened without brcaking their paper 
seals . I told him that I would be present when ballot boxes from 
polling station No. 37 would be opened for count to check this up 
and that regarding any other ballot boxes which could be opened 
without breaking paper seals they may also be brought to my noticc 
during the count. When the ballot boxes from polling station No. 37 
were taken out of the gunny bag in which they had been sealed 
for transit from the polling station to the place of custody, I got 
them distributed amongst the counting assistants in my presence . 
The seals on the gunny bags were in tact. The twines that secured 


228 


- - 


- 


TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959/MAGHA 4 , 1880 [Part II 

- - - 

- - - - - - 
the buttons of the ballot boxes with the window covers were intact , 
along with the official seals on the twines which were also intact. 
The scals twines were broken in my presence . The button could 
not move and thie boxes could not be opened as long as the twines 
and the scals securing the buttons with the window covers were 
intact. After brcaking of the twines and the scals the buttons of 
the boxes could be moved so as to open the boxes without operat 
ing from the window the spring wires because , as it was found , on 
opening the boxes , the spring wires had been removed , and they 
wcre missing . Had the spring wires been there, the buttons coula 
be operated only through the windows after brcaking the paper 
seals . In the case of polling station No . 37, the necessity to break 
the paper seals covering the window did not arise . Onc ballot box 
was allotted at each polling station to each candidate . Respondent 
No, 2 reported to me and the Returning Omcer that his box from 
polling station No . 20 had been opened by his election agent after 
the twine and the soal securing the butons with the window covers 
were intact, the button not be moved for opening the box . What 
I have said regarding ballot boxes from polling station No. 37 
equally applies to this ballot box . The seals on the gunny bag 
out of which ballot boxes of polling station No. 20 were taken , were 
also reported to be intact . 


It is true that the ballot boxes from polling station No. 37 and one ballot 

box from polling station No. 20 could be opened without breaking 
the paper scals but not without breaking the twines, the scaling 
wax securing the same and the removal of the steel wire securing 
the buttons with the window cover , which I have alrcady said were 
intact. Sealing seal was of red colour and the scal affixed thercon 
was the official seal supplied by Election Department to the Presid 
ing Officers of the Polling Stations. This seal secured the twines . 
The Anal result sheet of polling station No. 37 is as under as regards 
respondent No. 1 and ; 

( 1 ) Shri Brahm Purkash . . 283 
( 2 ) Shri Shyama Charan . . 329 


The total number of votes polled at polling station No . 37 was 634. Shri 

Tribhawan Dutt got five votes, Shrimati Gurcharan Kaur six , Shri 
Hukam Chand cight, and Sodhi Pindi Dass three . Two ballot papers 
issued from polling station No. 37 as was evident from the polling 
station No. 37 seal mark thereon , were found at the time of count 
of polling station No. 61 mixed up with 198 votes of the respondent 
No. 1 from polling station No. 61, and this was reported by Shri 
Brahm Parkash s counting agent, who had initially reported after 
the count of all the votes from polling station No. 61 that the total 
number of votes polled by all the candidates cxceeded the number 
of ballot papers issued at polling station No . 61 by two. We were dis 
tributing boxes of 24 polling stations at a time. The seats at which 
ballot boxes from polling station No. 61 were opened were the same 
at which just preceding these ballot boxes , the ballot boxes from 
polling station No. 37 had been opened . It may be that during the 
excitement caused when ballot boxes from polling station No. 37 werc 
found to open without breaking the paper seals , these two ballot 
papers were left over inadvertuntly by any of the counting assis 
tants in that row and the same may have been taken up by the 
counting assistant at the table assigned to Ch . Brahm Parkash and 
mixed up with the ballot papers taken out of his box from polling 
station No. 61. These two ballot papers were rejected . In all cases 
where ballot papers issued from one polling station were found in 
the ballot box of another polling station , they were rejected ," 


In the light of the detailed quotations from the statement of Shri Hans Raj, 
Chief Electoral Olcer , it is not worthwhile to elaborate the point any further . 
It appears that tampering of the boxes was not possible and the position of 
the green paper scals by some inadvertance remained as such that the boxes 
could he ninnad without brcaking this . In the first place , as the position stands , 
there has been no infringment of rules because there was no defert in the mecha 
nism but the wire connecting the green paper scals remained in such a position 
that the boxes could be opened . In the alternate if at all technically , it amount 
ed to non - compliance , the position as explained above shows that respondent 


SEC . 9 ( 11)] 


THE GAZET I E OF INDLA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


229 


. . 


No . 2 got more yotes so far these boxes were concerned as compared to respon 
dent No. 1 and it cannot be said with any stretch of imagination that the result 
was materially affected as required under Section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( 3 ) . There is no 
substance in the contention and the issue must fail. The same is negatived . 

66 . Issue No. 8 . 

This issue relates to corrupt practices alleged to have been committed by 
giving out threats of injury to the voters on some places in the constituency 
and as such having exercised undue influence on the voters . More than one 
persons were alleged to have been responsible for this as detailed in the issues 
8A to E but no evidence was led and Mr. Ram Phal, the pctitioner , did not 
press this issue. The same is accordingly decided against the petitioner . 

67. This disposes of all thc 9 issues and the reult of the Andings is that the 
petitioner has failed to prove that any corrupt practices were indulged or com 
mitted by respondent No. 1 or by his election agent or by any person with the 
consent of the respondent No. 1 or the election agent or any person in the 
interest of the respondent which can justify the Tribunal to set aside the elec 
tion of respondent No. 1, Shri Brahm Parkash , the returned candidate . The 
petition accordingly fails and should be dismissed with costs . The notices 
issued to Brij Mohan , Om Parkash Jain and Om Parkash Sharma under Section 
99 of thc R . P . Act are vacated ipso facto . 

68. On the question of assessment of costs , however , it is important to note 
that the proceedings continued for about 15 years and the contest was not only 
protracted but strenuous as well. The respondent s counsel has filed a certi 
ficate of ices in the amount of Rs. 2 , 200, but I am not prepared to mulct the 
petitioner with all that amount. Taking all circumstances into consideration , jt 
1s ordered that the petitioner shall pay to respondent No. 1, Shri Brahm Parkash 
Rs. 1 , 100 ( Rs. one thousand and one hundrcd ) only as costs which may be 
recoycred from the security of Rs. 1,000 lying with the Election Commission 
and the rest will be recoverable according to the rules from the petitioner by 
respondent No. 1. All other respondents including the newly added respon 
dents Nos. 7 , 8 and 9 ( Brij Mohan , Om Parkash Jain and Om Parkash Sharma ) , 
as well as the petitioner shall bear their own costs . 

KARTAR SINGH CAMPBELLPURI, 

Member , 

Election Tribunal, Dellai. 
Announced . 

DELHI; 
The 11th December, 1958 . 

APPENDIX l 
Shri Ram Phal 

Versus 

Shri Braham Parkash etc . 


ORDER 
1 . On the pleadings of the parties with particular refercnce to the preliminary 
objections raised by respondent No. 1 in his written statement the following issues 
were framed 
( 1 ) Did not the Election Commission satisfy the conditions of section 86 , 

R . P . A ., 1951 before referring the petition to the Tribunal for trial ? 
If so , what is its effect on the Tribunal s competency to proceed with 

the petition ? 
( 2 ) Is the petition barred by time? 
( 3) Are full particulars of the alleged corrupt practices given in the peti 

tion ? If not what should be the proper order ? 
( 4 ) Are the respondents cntitled to copies of the annexures to the pcti 

tion mentioned as schedules in the petition ? 
(5 ) Have the annexures heen properly varified ? If not, what is its effect ? 
2 . The parties were given an opportunity of producing evidence Only ( ortain 
documents were tendered and admitted by the opposite party . No other evidence 
was led . I have heard arguments on these issues . I proceed to record my find 
ings with a brief statement of reasons in their support, 


230 TUIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1939/MAGHA 4 , 1880 PARI IN 

S * = = - = 
3 . Issue No. 1 - Section 86 , R . P . A ., 1951 requires that the Election Commission 
shall cause a copy of the petition to be published in the Gazette and a copy to be 
served by post on each respondent, and shall then refer the petition to an Election 
Tribunal for trial actually happened in this case is that the petitioner s name 
was omiited in the published copy also the date of the petition was printed ay 
29th April instead of 20th April, the currect date . The notification refers to the 
presentation of the petition , The date of i s presentation and the name of the 
person , who presented it are given At the end of the petition appeary the name 
of the petitioner . Ram Phal is the petitioner . Ilis name appears in the opening 
paragraph of the Gazette Notification , so also it appears at the end of the petition . 
It is left out in the title of the petition . 

4 . It was argued that these mistakes in the publication of the copy vitiate the 
reference of the petition for trial to the Election tribunal. It was argucd that the 
section uses the word shall which is ordinarily taken as mandatory unless there 
is any thing in the context to show the contrary . That uestion does not in fact 
arise and I will not enter into its discussion . What has actually happened is that the 
copy was actually published with two errors which crept into the printed copy . 
It is not a question of complying with section 86 . The Election Commission pur 
ported to comply with it . Can it be said that there has been such a failure to 
comply with the section as to hold that in fact there has been no compliance ? 
I am of opinion , that the proper test is to sec whether the mistakes in the published 
copy arc such as to fundamentally alter the character of the petition itself and 
to lead a person who reads it to an impression that it is not a petition which was 
presented by Mr. Ram Phal to the Election Commission against Shii Brahm 
Prakash and others . If the requirements of the section are enforced literally it 
would mean that the substituticn of the word "the instead of the word a or the 
addition of or semi- colon will make republication of the copy necessary to 
validate the reference . I differ from this literal construction . What the law 
requires is that the copy should be published and if it can be fairly and reasonably 
taken to be a copy of the petition notwithstanding errors in the publication , there 
is suficient compliance . 

5 . The copy served on respondent No . 1 showed the date of the petition as 29th 
Aprli Verification , however , showed 20th April Actually the petition received by 
the Tribunal is also dated 20th April. That in my opinion is not a material mistake . 
It might have given the respondent an Impression that the petition is marred by 
time. As a matter of fact the respondent s counsel acted on that impression and 
raised an objections to limitation . The actual notice with which the copy was 
sorved , however , clearly mentioned that the petition had been presented on 20th 
April , Thus there is no scope for any wrong impression being conveyed to respon 
dent No, 1. 

6 . The petition refers to certain schedules and annexures . The latter were not 
published as a part of the petition . It was argued that they in fact formed an 
integral part thereof and should have been published , I have read hrough the 
petition . Para 6 refers to the schedules or annexures . But the petitioner has 
taken care to make the petition an independent document. The annexures only 
refer to the actual evidence . Every schedule or annexure is not to be taken as 
a part of the petition . It depends how far a reference ct their contents is neces 
sary to make the petition a complete whole . The present petition satisfles these 
tests . Omission to publish the annexures under Section 86 or to serve them on 
the respondents is not fatal to the reference. I decide issuc No 1 in favour of 
the petitioner . 

7 . Issue No . 2 . It was conceded that it is not the date which the petition pur 
ports to bear but it is the date on which it is actually presented to the Electior 
Commission , that determines the point. It was conceded that the petition was 
actually presented on 20th April within the period of limitation Axec? by the Act . 
I decide this issue against respondent No . 1 . 

8 . Issue No. 3 . - Particulars of corrupt practices purport to have been given 
from paragraph 8 onwards. Paras 1 to 4 are introductory. Paras 5 to 6 are 
quite general in their language and scope . They do not claim to give the parti 
culars of corrupt practices . Para 7 relates to the commission of a corrunt prar 
tice, what is generally called publication of false and defamatory statements about 
the petitioner . Para 7 generally states about the corrupt practices , Para 8 
points out in what manner the publication which was contained in a poster was 
objectionable . Para 9 purports to give how and in what manner it was intended 
to prejudice the prospects of respondent No . 2 , another candidate Para 10 pur 
ports to give that the falsity of the statement was to the knowledge of respon 
dent No . 1 . Para 11 refers to the publication of similar matter in posters issued 


$ . 3 ( ii )] T HE GAZE ITE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959/MIGHA 4, 1880 

231 

= = - - - - 
in Persian script. Para 12 mentions that the order for printing the said posters 
was given by the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committec, Delhi, to which the bill 
was sent It is also mentioned that respondent No. 1 is the Vice President of 
the Congress Committee . Para 13 states that such posters were prominently dis 
played in thousands in the whole of the Delhi Sadar constituency and have affect 
ed the fortunes of the election campaign against respondent No, 2 to the advan 
tage of respondent No. 1 . These paras from 8 to 13 relate to onc corrupt prac 
tico . Para 15 relates to the issue of another poster by a body known as Anti Com 
munal Front body in Devnagri and Urdu script. The allegation is that it constituted a 
false and defamatory statement amounting to corrupt practice Paras 16 , 17 , 18 
and 19 alleged that a speech delivered by Shri Govind Balabh Pant, the Hon ble 
Minister for Home Affairs , Central Government on 1st March , 1957 in the course 
of which he promiserl certain concessions in the matter if sales tax law to the 
conuercial community of Delhi in general and the trade of the constituency in 
particular amounted to undue influence exercised by the Hon ble Minister. Para 
19 ( c ) and para 20 relate to a reduction of sales tax under the orders of the 
Chiat Commissioner by the Sales Tax Commissioner at cr about the time of the 
polling day. Para 21 relates to the amount of compensation which Ch . Murari 
Singh , Land Acquisition Collector promised to award in respect of certain land 
taken from a firm Messrs Gulab Singh Johari Mal for the benclit of Dehra 
Ismail Khan Cooperative Society Ltd It is alleged that the aforesaid corrupt prac 
tice was committed by the said Government Omer to assist respondent No 1 . 
Para 23 deals with allegation of bribery to voters . Pará 24 relates to the obtain 
ing of assistance from a Government servant. Paras 25 and 26 deal with the 
defective character of ballot boxes at certain stations. Para 27 deals with the 
allegation of undue influence in the form of threats . Para 20 refers to illegal 
gratſAcation . 


I have described all the allegations of corrupt practices made in the peti- - 
tion at one place without entering into individual consideration for one reason . 
All of them suffer from one defect. The person who committed the corrupt 
practire , the connection of that person with respondent No. 1 and the effect of 
that connection on the validity of the election have not been specified . Section 
123 dennes corrupt practices . A corrupt practice may be committed by a candi 
date or his agent or by any other person . In that an act of any other person is 
included in the definition , the law has undergone a change. In order to judge 
the effect of the commission of a corrupt practice on the clection of a returned 
candidate one has to go to section 100 , sub section 1 ( b ) , ( d ) ( ii ) . It is not neces 
sary to refer to sub -section ( 2 ) of the section . If a corrupt practice is pro 
ved to have been committed by a returned candidate or his election agent or by 
any other person with the consent of the returned candidate or his election agent 
the election stands vacated without any further proof. If the corrupt practice is 
proved to have been committed in the interests of the returned candidate by a 
person other than mentioned in clausc ( b ) the petitioner has to prove further that 
the result of the election , in as far as it concerned the returned candidate , has been 
materially affected . It will thus be seen that these sections refer to many classes 
of persons who might be charged with having committed corrupt practices . In 
this view , it becomes absolutely necessary that particulars of the person who 
actually committed the practice should appear. It is a feature common to all the 
paragraphs of the petition that the persons charged with the offences has been 
generally described as respondent No. 1 and / or his agent, and / or his election 
agent, and / or any other person with the consent of the candidate and or any other 
person acting in the interests of the candidate. 

10 . As regards the posters mentioned in paragraphs 8 to 13 , it was pointed out 
that the exact places where the posters were displayed or pasted are not given . In 
a natter of this kind it is not possible to specify the particular wall where the 
particular poster was pasted or a particular person to whom the poster was dis 
tributed . I am of opinion that an allegation that these posters where published 
prominently in the whole of the Delhi Sadar constituency is sufficient in the circum . 
stances . 


11. As regards para 15 , all that the petitioner has mentioned is that an objec 
tionable poster was issued by Anti Communal Front. It has not been shown how 
and in what manner this body is connected with respondent No. 1 . 

12 . As regards para 16 the connection of the speaker with respondent No. 1 lg 
not clearly brought out. There is nothing to indicate whether the Hon ble Minister 
spoke for the congress party and its candidates in general or that he spoke for 
respondent No . 1 with him in his particular view . At any rate there is nothing to , 


232 


- 


IIIE CAZFTTE OF INDI I JAVLARY 21, 1959 MAGIA 4 , 1880 [PART II 
= - - - - - 
show that respondent No. 1 was connected with thc speech or can be hoid 
Iusponsible for the act of the speaker , on the principles of agency or other 
connections recognised in section 100 . 

13 . As regards para 19 clause ( c ) and para 20 it is the obtaining of assistance 
froni Government servants that constitutes a corrupt practice . It should be shown 
as to who actually obtained that assistance. The particulars of the assistance and 
that of the Guvernınent ufficers are given . The same observations apply to the 
obtaining of assistance from Ch . Murari Singh , Land Acquisition Collector referred 
in paras 21 and 22 and Shri Gopi Nath Aman referred in para 24 , 

14 . As regards para 23, 27 and 28 , it was conceded that particulars of bribery , 
illegal gratification and undue influence have not been given . 


15 . As regards para 25 referring to the defective character of the ballot boxes , 
it was the duty of the petitioner to have shown how non - compliance with statutory 
provisions had materially affected the result of the clection as regards the return 
ed candidate . That is necessary to bring it within section 100 sub - section ( 1 ) ( d ) 
( iv ) . 

16 . From what has been said above it will he scen that the petition does not 
comply with all the requirements of law in the matter of giving particulars of 
corrupt practices in accordance with section 83 , R . P . A . 1951. Section 90 sub -section 
( 5 ) lays down that the Tribunal may upon such terms as to costs or otherwise as 
it may decm fit allow particulars of any corrupt practice alleged in the petition to 
be amended or amplified in such a manner as may in its opinion be necessary for 
ensuring a fair and effective trial of the petition . It shows that the tribunal cannot 
order the amendment of the petition but it does not debar the tribunal from grant 
Ing the petitioner an opportunity of making an application , if so advised , to amend 
the petition or to amplify particulars already given . It is true that primarily it is 
the duty of the pctitioner to comply with the requirements of law . It is not for 
the tribunal to offer an opportunity . At the same time power is conferred on it 
to ensure a fair and ellertive trial of the petition . One cannot afford to be very 
technical about it . In the circumstances , I would give time to the petitioner to 
consider the advisability of making an application under section 90 (5 ) . That 
application , if and when made, shall be considered by the Tribunal on its mcrits 
and shall be decided after having heard the parties . 

17. Issue No. 4 . - - I have already considered this matter under issue No. 1 
Mr. D . D . Chawla appearing for respondent No . 1 tells the tribuna ) that he is now 
possessed of the copies of the annexures. 

18 . Issue No . 5 . — I find that the annexures have been actually verified . It is 
not necessary to decide whether they required to be verified , 

Announced . 
The 18th June 1957 

(Sd .) RAMESHWAR DIAL. 

Election Tribunal, Delhi, 


ORDER 


1 . One of the objections to the proper character of the petition raised on behalf 
of respondent No . 1 wus that it did not contain full particulars of corrupt practices 
allcged therein . This formed the subject matter of Issue No . 3 , which was disposed 
oľ by my order dated 18th June, 1957 . It was found that the objection had force 
and certain omissions in regard to particulars were pointed out . As suggested 
by that order , the petitioner applied for amendment of the petition along with a 
draft annended petition showing where and how amendments were sought. Copies 
of the application and the draft amended petition were supplied in advance to 
Mr, D . D . Chawla , Counsel for respondent No. 1. He Aled a reply to this applica 
tion . 


2 . I have heard arguments of the parties in regard to the application . It has 
been made under section 90 sub - section (5 ) R . P . Act, 1951. That sub - section em 
powers the Tribunal to allow the particulars of any corrupt practice alleged in the 
petition to be amended or amplified but it does not empower the Tribunal to allow 
any amendment of the petition which wil] have the effect of introducing particulars 
of a corrupt practice not previously alleged in the petition . This sub -section was 
added by Act 27 of 1957 in the parent Act of 1951. A similar provision was contain 
cd in section 83 ( 3 ) of the parent Act, Originally the law required an election 
petition containing a concise statement of material facts to be accompanied by a 


-. _ v .. 


mon . 


411 . 


RY 


RY 24, 


, 


. 4 , 


23 


233 


list setting forth full particulars of any corrupt practice or illegal practice which 
the petitioner might allege and another sub -section of section 83 empowered the 
tribunal to allow the particulars impleaded in the sald list to be amended or to 
order further and better particulars in regard to any matter referred to therein 
to be furnished by the petitioner. Section 90 ( 2 ) of the old as well as the amended 
Act provides that every election petition shall be tried by the tribunal as nearly 
as may be in accordance with the procedure applicable under the Code of Civil 
Procedure to the trial of suits . The interpretation of these two provisions as they 
stood before the amendment gave rise to A difference of opinion on more than one 
point. The first point was whether Order 6 , Rule 17 C . P . C . cnuld be invoked to 
order the amendment of the list setting particulars of corrupt practices or of the 
petition in gencral. The preponderance of opinion was that the power of amend 
mcnt under Order 6 , Rule 17 C . P . C . applied to the amendment of the petition in 
the matter of joinder or non - joinder of parties and other particulars . In regard 
to the list the view was taken as a specific provision has been made, the general 
provision cannot be applied and the tribunal s powers are more restricted under 
the specific provision than they were under the general rule . Another point which 
gave rise to difference of opinion was the extent to which the tribunal could allow 
the particulars to be amended . Onę view was that this power could not be exercis 
ed as to furnish the petitioner an opportunity to introduce now instances of corrupt 
practices already mentioned in the list. The difference arose from a broad or a 
narrow inteipretation of what was meant by a corrupt practice as mentioned in 
section 83 ( 3 ) . Corrupt practices were then defined in sections 123 and 124 . They 
are of various kinds or categories. Upon one view It was held sufficient compliance 
by the petitioner to invoke the tribunal s power to allow amendment if the category 
of a corrupt practice had been mentioned . It was not necessary that the category 
of a corrupt practice was to be taken as the definition of an offence, say as theft . 
A new instance was treated to be one which makes the transaction a different 
aflair , though the same corrupt practice , by reference to time, place and parties to 
the commission of the practice , Mr. Radhey Lal Aggarwal cited A . I. R . 1957 
Supreme Court , 444 , which sets that conflict at rest. The Hon ble Court interprot 
ed the old provision . The amendment of 1957 had made some changes in the two 
provisions as contained in old section 83 ( 3 ) and 90 ( 5 ) by expressly laying down 
that the tribunal shall not allow any amendment of the petition which will have 
the effect of introducing the particulars of a corrupt practice not previously alleged 
In the petition . The amendment, however , did not go far enough . It did not make 
it clear whether the corrupt practices meant the category of corrupt practices or 
a transaction constituting kind of corrupt practices mentioned in section 123. In 
view of the Supreme Court s decision , it may be taken that only a category of 
corrupt practices needs be mentioned in the petition to empower the tribunal for 
further particulars . 

3 . An historical retrospect of this provision has been considered necessary 
because of respondent No. i s objection that the proposed amendment goes beyond 
the scope of section 90 ( 5 ) . The main argument based on this objection is that new 
instances and additional grounds have been taken . It is not denied that a corrupt 
practice as a category was mentioned in the original petition . His counsel specifi 
cally referred to paragraphs 23 , 27 and 28 , It is not denied that the corrupt 
practice as such was clearly mentioned in the original petition . As a matter of 
fact some other particulars were also given but the person who committed the 
corrupt practice and certain other particulars were not given . Those have now 
been provided in the amended petition by addition of three new paras , 23 ( 2 ) , 27 (a ) 
and 28 ( a ) , 

4 . Another branch of the same objection urged by Mr. D . D . Chawla for 
respondent No . 1 rests on the argument that the amendment of particulars can be 
ordered only in those cases where some particulars of the corrupt practice already 
appear in the petition , Where no particulars at all appear in the petition , no 
question of amending or ainplifying them can arise . In other words , his argument 
is that the mention of corrupt practice only where allegations do not go beyond 
It is not suficient to attract the tribunal s power of amendment under section 
90 ( 5 ) . In the first place, this argument appears to be negatived by the last three 
lines of this sub - section . In the previous lines the words " amended or amplified " 
have bcen used but here the legislature has used the words " introducing parti 
culars" , thereby indicating that the restricted construction placed upon the sub 
section by Mr. D . D . Chawla is not sound in the second place, the amendment 
was not intended and cannot be read as limiting the tribunal s power of amend 
ment as it existed under the Act of 1951 before its amendment by Act 27 of 1957. 
The existing law has been expounded in AIR . 1957 Supreme Court 444 as men 
tioned above and its application to the interpretation of the amended sub -section 
5 has also been indicated . This line of argument also fails . 


234 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, MA HA 4 , 1880 [r II 
OSE 

5 . Now I come to para 24 . In my order of 18th June, 1957 I had pointed out 
that all the paragraphs dealing with the corrupt practices suffer from one common 
defect in that the doer or the person who committed the corrupt practice was not 
specified with sufficient precision . Second sub - para , of this paragraph of the peti 
tion refers directly or indirectly to two kinds of corrupt practices ( 1 ) Obtaining or 
procuring assistance of Government servants for the furtherance of a candidate s 
prospects at clection ; ( 2 ) Undue influence exercised on the voters at certain places 
of the constituency on 24th March , 1957 by the said Government servant obtaining 
of whose assistance is pleaded as a corrupt practice by itsell. This paragraph has 
been allowed to stand as It was in the original petition . On re -reading it I find 
that it is expressly mentioned therein that respondent No. I obtained and procured 
services of the said Government scrvant. So the common defect mentioned as 
applying to all the paragraphs did not in fact exist in regard to this particular 
allegation . The corrupt practice of undue influence committed by Shri Gopi Nath 
Aman cannot , however , be allowed to be pleaded as an independent and distinct 
corrupt practice because no where the connection of Shri Gopi Nath Aman with 
respondent No . 1 has been shown . Undue influence on voters by him is certainly 
mentioned as the assistance rendered by him and was objectionable because he 
was a Government servant. The exercise of undue influence by him as a person 
apart from that capacity and thus affecting the election of respondent No. 1 is 
neither pleaded as such nor the particulars appear. At the time of framing of 
issues and at the time of leading evidence it shall be taken as a ruling of the 
tribunal that the petitioner has not pleaded undue influence on voters by Shri Gopi 
Nath Aman as a distinct practice , affecting the election but it shall be taken only 
as specification of the assistance which the Government servant rendered and 
which respondent No . 1 procured . 


0 . Paragraphs 8 to 13 deal with the publication of certain posters . Paragraph 
15 deals with another poster in Devnagri and Urdu scripts alleged to have been 
issued by A body known as Anti Cornmunal Front. Amendment of the parti 
culars or their amplification in regard to these two allegations of corrupt practices 
are now given in paragraph 15 - A , Mr D . D . Chawla s objection is that this ought 
not to have been done. Dealing with both the corrupt practices in a single para 
graph has not , however , affected the clarity of the pleading in any way and the 
defcct, if any, is that of drafting. Nothing further needs be done in this respect . 


7 . Paragraph 15 - A , as it now stands, is stated to be bad because it goes beyond 
the original petition . The relcvant paragraph did not make any distinction be 
tween section 100 sub - section 1 clause ( a ) and clause ( d ) . The distinction between 
the two provisions as regards the legal effect of a corrupt practice varying accord 
ing to circumstances has been dealt with at some length in my order of 18th June , 
1957 . That distinction is now introduced in paragraph 15 - A and the two provisions 
have been relied upon as supporting alternative cases . It is urged that this is 
going beyond the proper scope of an amendment. I disagree with it. It falls 
within the suggestions made in my previous order and there is nothing wrong in 
the petitioner setting his case in the alternative. The distinction betwcen the two 
provisions hangs on a question of fact about which one cannot always be certain . 
It can be concluded only by a finding of the tribunal. It was , therefore , proper to 
have set up an alternative . casc . 


8 . Objection was taken to the language of para 20 - A , particularly the first 
sentence . I do not see anything objectionable in it . Thereby the petitioner has 
not introduced any allegation of any new corrupt practice . Its importance les 
only in giving the background in which respondent No. 1 is alleged to have pro 
curert the assistance of a Government servant for the furtherance of his election 
prospects 


2 . After having decided that the draft amended petition does not go beyond the 
scope of iny order dated 18th June, 1957 or the statutory limitations set upon the 
tribunal s powers , to allow amendment of particulars, it becomes necessary to dis 
pose of the application for amendment Reading what I have said above with my 
order dated 18th June, 1957 , I am of opinion , that a case for allowing amendment 
has been made out. The application for amendment is allowed , however, on pay 
ment of Rs. 100 / - as costs . Large collection of facts constituting the petitioner s 
allegations could have been done in the first instance before the original petition 
was Aled , had a little for thought and diligence had been exercised , This matter 
of amendment took some hours of the tribunal and the parties before this stage 
In the proceedings has been reached . 


SFC . 3 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1989 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


235 


10 . Amended petition attached to the application for amendment is to be treat 
ed as the amended petition for the trial of the matter . Its reply is to be filed on 
2nd August, 1957. An advance copy of the reply may be supplied to the counsel 
for the petitioner on 1st August , 1957 at 10 A .M . 

Announced : 
The 22nd July , 1957. 

(Sd .) RAMESHWAR DIAL, 

Election Tribunal, Delhi. 


No. 82 / 140 / 57 / 859 .] 


S . O . 169 , - In pursuance of the provisions of sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 140 of the 
Representation of the People ( Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions ) Rules , 
1956 and in continuation of its notiAcation No . 82 / 341 / 57 / 13613 dated the 25th 
September , 1958 published as S . O . 2058 in the Gazette of India Extraordinary , 
Part II - Section 3 – Sub - section ( ii) (No. 206 ) dated the 3rd October , 1958 , the 
Elcction Commission hereby publishes the decision of the High Court of Judica 
ture at Patna in the appeal filed by Md. Ibrahim Ansari against the Order dated 
the 25th August, 1958 of the Election Tribunal, Ranchi, in election Pctition No. 341 
of 1957. 

MR. LAKSHYAN SARAN SINHA . 

K . N , THAKUR 

GOPI KRISHNA SINHA. 
IN THE HIGII COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA. 
ORDER SHEET. 


Election Appeal No. 12 of 1958 , (Arising out of Election Petition No. 341 of 
37 of the Court of the Member , Elcction Tribunal, Ranchi.) 


Md. Ibrahim Ansari - Appellant . 

Versus 
Mr. Masani and others - -Respondents . 


Serial No. 
of Order . 


Date of 
Order . 


Order with signature 


Office note as to 

action ( if any 
taken on order . 


4 . 14th November , 1958 . Three weeks time is allowed , as prayed -- 

(i ) to Ale envelopes with necessary postage stamps, 
( ii ) to Ale written processes for issue of appeal 

notices. 
( iii ) to flle paper books, and 
( iv ) to filę six typed copies of memorandum of ap 

peal for service on the respondents , falling 
compliance with any of which the appeal 
shall stand dismissed without further refer 

ence to Bench , 
So far as the affidavit is concerned , it is stated that 
an affidavit has alrcady been flled stating that thc 
addresses given in the memorandum of appeal arc cor 
rect , and , thc efore , no further affidavit is necessary . 

( Sd.) C . P . SINHA. 

( Sd .) K . DAYAL . 
Re. Order No. 4 . 


Envelopes with necessary postage stamps , written process for issue of appeal 
notice, paper books and six typed copies of the memorandum of appeal for ser 
vice on the respondents not having been filed within the time allowed by Or. 


236 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JA , ARY 24 , 


; M . 


- 4, 


- 


- 


- 


No . 4 dated 14th November , 1958 , the appeal stood dismissed for default on 5th 
December , 1958 by virtue of the said Order . 
(Sd.) C . P . SINHA, D . R . 
(Sd.) Illegible . 
9 - 12 - 58. 
Lcarned Advocate informed Vide slip . 
(Sd .) Illegible. 
15 - 12 -58, 
( Sd. ) Illegible . 
15 - 12 -58 . 

( Sd ) C . P . SINHA , D . R . 

15 - 12 - 58 

[No. 82 / 341 /57 / 1075 ) 


By Order , 
DIN DAYAL , Under Secy .. 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 15th January 1959 
8 . 0 . 170 . - In the Ministry of Law notification No . F . 5 ( 3 ) /58- Elections, 
dated the 6th January, 1959 containing the declaration of the result of the elec 
tion to the Housc of the People from the Katihar Constituency, published as 
$ . O . 115 in the Gazette of India Extraordinary, dated the 6th January, 1959 , 
insert the following at the end in the left hand corner of the declaration : against 
the name of the Returning Officer : -- 

" Place Purnea . 
Date- 29 - 12 -58 ," 

[No. F . 5 (3 ) / 58 - Elections.] 
E . VENKATESWARAN , Under Secy . 


- - 

- - - - - 
MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-1, the 3rd January 1950 
$ . 0 , 171 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Rule 1 of Rule 8 of the Central Civil 
Services (Classification , Control and Appeal ) Rules, 1957 , the President hercby directs thur 
w . c. f. 16th April, 1958 , all the posts under the Social Welfare & Rehabilitation Directorate grall be 
classified as under : 


Description of the Post 


Classification of 

Posts 


Remarks 


No. 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- - - -- - 


- -- - 


Gazecied 


Non -Ministerial 


I Honorary Director 
2 Honorary Deputy Director 
3 Adminisirative - cum - Accounts Officer 
4 Assispunt Director 
5 Medical Officcr . 
6 Chiel Accountant . . 


Do. 


HNMtwoNo 


Class II 

D . . 
Do . 
Do. 


Do. 
Do. 


Du 
Ministerial 


(Non 
gazetted ) 

Do. 


7 Accountant , 
8 Accountant . 
9 Assistant Superintendenis 


Class III 

Do. 


Do. 
Do 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Non -Ministerial : 


Sec. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


237 


Description of the Post 


Classification of 

Posts 


Remarks 


-Do 


Class III Non -Gazetted , Non -Ministerial. 
-Do - Do 

-DU 
- Do -Do 

- Do 
-Do - Do 

-Do 

-Do 
- Do 

- Do 
- Do 

-Do 
- Do 

- Do 

Ministerial. 
- Do 

-Do 
- Do -Do 

- Dur 


၃၄၃ 


- DO 


- Do 
- Do 


-DO 


- Do 


Do 


- DO 


- Do 


- Do 


-Do 


-Do 


-Do 


Do 


Io Supervisor . . . 
II Organiser 
12 Manager 
13 Superintendent 
14 Assistant Superintendent - cum -Matron 
15 Assistant Superintendent - cum - Nurse . 
16 Organiser , 
17 Assistant Organiacs 
18 Assistant 
19 U . D . C . . 
20 U . D . C ./Cashier 
21 L . D . C . 

Store -kceper 
23 Marketing Officer 
24 Şalce Girls in 
25 Stenographer , 
26 Stenotypist . 
27 Investigator . 

Investigator . 
Receptionist 
Establishmcnt Assistant 

Instructors 
32 Head -mistress 

Nursery Teacher 
34 Teacher . 

Compounder 
36 Craft Teacher 
37 Cutter 

Tailor . 
39 Skilled worker 
40 Helper . . . 


-Do 
Do 
-Do 


OOONOWN 


Ni - Mini cerial. 

-10 

-Do 
Ministerial. 

-Do 
Non -Ministerial. 


- Do 


NNNNNNNNNNMTMTerm 


- Do 
-Do 
-Do 
- Do 


- DU 


28 
29 
30 


- DU 


-Do 
- Do 
- Do 
- Do 
-Do 


33 


-DO 
- Do 
-Do 
- Do 
- Do 
DO 
- Do 


- Do 
-Do 
-Do 
-Do 
-DU 
-Do 
Du 
- Do 
- Do 
-Do 
- DU 


35 


Do 


- Do 


38 


- Do 
- Do 
-Do 
- Du 


- Do 
- Do 
-Do 
- Do 


[No. 28 ( 30 )/58 - RH .) 
J. S . TYAGI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 14th January 1959 
S . O . 172 . - Whereas it appears to tho Central Government that owing to his 
haying entered upon a course of wasteful extravagance Major His Highness Raja 
Lakshman Singh of Chamba, a land -holder , is likely to dissipate his property ; 

And whereas the Central Government is satisfied that it is desirable on 
grounds of general interest that the property of the said Major His Highness 
Raja Lakshman Singh be placed under the superintendence of the Court of Wards ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred upon it by clausę ( d ) of 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 5 of the Punjab Court of Wards Act , 1903, as extended 
to the Union territory of Himachal Pradesh by the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the late Ministry of States notification No. 386 - 1. B . dated the 
25th December , 1948 , the Central Government hereby directs that the property 
of the said Major His Highness Raja Lalohman Singh be placed under the 
superintendence of the Court of Wards, 

[No, F . 13 / 27 / 58 -Poll. III. ) 
S . NARAYANSWAMY , Dy . Secy . 


- - - 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1959 
$ . 0 , 173 , - In exerciso of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause (5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution , and after consultation with the 


238 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 21, 1959/MAGHA 4, 


( PART II 


- 


- 


- 


Comptroller and Auditor General of India in relation to persons serving in the 
Indian Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby directs that the 
following further amendments shall be made in the Civil Service Regulations, 
namely : 

For article 419 of the said Regulations, the following shall be substituted ; 
Aamely : - -- 
" 419 . ( a . A Government servant who is dismisscd , removed or compul 

sorily retired from public service, but is reinstated on appeal or revi 

sicn , is entitled to count his past service. 
( b ) The period ol break in service between the date of dismissai, removal 

or compulsory retirement, as the case may be , and the date of rein 
statement, and the period of suspension ( if any ) shall not count un 
legs rcgularised as duty or lcave by a specific order of the authority 
which passed the order of reinstatement." 

[No, F . 11 (68 ) -EV / 58. ] 
N . C . JAIN , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1959 
S . O . 174. - Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the 9th January 1959 . 


SEG.3(ii)] 


BANKING DUPARTMENT 


Liabilities 


Rs. 


Assets 


Rs. 


LER 


. 


. 


. 


5 ,00, 00 ,000 
80 , 00 ,00 , 000 


Capital paid up . . . . . 
Reserve Fund . . 
National Agricultural Credit (Long -term Ope 

rations ) Fund . . . . . 
National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) 

Fund . 


Noles . . 
Rupee Coin . 
Subsidiary Coin 


. 
. 
. 


8 . 96 ,89 , 000 

3 , 31, 000 
4 -51, 000 


25, 00 ,00 , 000 


3, 00 , 00, 000 


. 


Deposits : 
(a ) GovertuneIt 

(1 ) Central Govemmeat . 

(2) Other Governments . 
(b) Banks . . . . 

(© ) Others , . 
Bills Payablc . . 
Other Liabilities 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY24,1959/MAGHA4,1880 


. 
. 
. 


Bills Purchased and Discounted : 

(a ) Internal . . 
(6 ) External . . . . . 

(c) Government Treasury Bills 
Balances held abroad * . . . 
* *Loans old Advances to Governmepts . 
Other Loans and Advancest 
Investments · · · · · 
Other Assets , . 


66, 14, 99 ,000 
10 ,87. 99,000 
69 ,39,05 ,000 
116, 11,65,000 
18 ,21,72,000 
29 ,55 , 25,000 
423, 30 ,65, 000 


. 
. 


14,62.55 ,000 
27.03,77,000 
31, 93,72 ,000 
89, 99 ,07,000 
239,56 ,65,000 
11,10 , 18 ,000 


· 


TOTAL : 


TOTAL . 


423. 30 ,55 ,000 


* Includes Cash & Short term Securities. 
* * [ ocludes Temporary Overdrafts to State Governments, 

ÎThe item Other Loms and Advances includes Rs. 2, 24 ,01,000 advanced to scheduled banks against usande bills under Section 17 (4 ) (c) of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act , 

Dated the 14th day of January 1959. 


239 


240 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 , for the week ended the 9th day of January 1959 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


Liabilities 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Assets 


Rs. 


Rs . 


Notes held in the Banking De 

partinent; . . 
Notes in circulation 

. 


8,95 ,89,000 
1627,36 ,06 ,000 


117 ,76 ,03,000 


TotalNotes issued 


1636 , 32 , 95 ,000 


164 ,67,56 ,000 


A . Gold Coin and Bullion : 

(a ) Held in India . . . 

(b ) Held outside Iodia . . 
Foreigu Securities 

TOTAL OF A . . . . 
IB . Rupee Coin . . . . 
Government of India Rupee Securi. 

ties . 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other 

commercial paper . . + 


282 ,43 ,59 ,000 
134 , 10 ,47, 000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY24,1959/MAGHA4,1880 


1219, 78, 89 ,000 


TOTAL LIABILITIES 


. 


1636 , 32 , 95.000 


TOTAL - ASSETS . 


. 


. 


1636 ,32,95 , 000 


Dated the 14th day of January ,[1959. 


H . VÉR . IENGAR, Governor. 

[No. F . 3 (2 )-Bc /59 .] 
A . BAKSI, Jt. Secy . 


[PARTII 


SEC. 3 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 / MAGHA 4, 1880 


241 


- 


- - - 


(Department of Revenue ) 

ESTATE DUTY 
New Delhi, the 13th January 1959 


$ . O . 175 . — The Central Government hereby renews the appointment of the 
under -mentioned Valucrs whose names were first published in Part II , Section 
3 of the Gazette of India , dated the 21st January , 1956 under S . R . O . No. 140 , for 
A further period of three years from the 14th January , 1959. 

1. Engineers / Surveyors / Architects 


S . No. 


Name 


Address 


I. Shri Ganguly , J. L . B . Sc. (Glass) , 

43, Vivekananda Road , Calcutta- 7. 
A . M . E . E ., ( B . Toch .), A . M . I. E . 
2 . Shiri Aptc , U . M ., G . D . Arch ., A . N . A . 479 / 3, Tilak Road , Poona - 2 , 
3 . Shri Gajjar, Atmaram M ., G . D . Arch ., Astodia Road , Ahmedabad - 1 . 

F . I. I. A . 
4 . Shri Gupte , V . V ., B . E ., M .I.E . 

27, Alli Chambers, Tamarind Lanc, Fort 

Bombay . 
5 . Shri Sarma, S . Varadaraja , B . E ., M . T.E . Pattam Palace, P . O . Trivandrum -4 . 

11. Accountants 
I. Shri Mukherji , P . K ., M . A ., B . Com . (Cal.), Clo . Green & Co., Chartered Accountants 
F .C .A ., F .R . E . Ş. (Lond .). , 

3, S . N . Banerjee Road , Calcutta - 13 . 
.. . Shri Shah , Chimpanlal C ., B . Bom ., F . C .A , Clo . Naushir M . Marfatia & Co., Chartered 

Accountants , P . O . Box 95 , Gandhi 

Road , Ahmedabad . 
3 . Shri Shah , M . B ., B . Com ., F . C .A . 

C /o . M K . Dandeker & Co ., Chartered 

Accountants , 26 , Fifth Main Road , Gandhi 

Nagar , Bangalore - 9 . 
4 . ShriRoy, Dilbag , B .A ., A . Ş . A .A ., F . C .A . Clo Roy Malhotra & Co ., Chartered AC 

countants , Residency Road , Srinagar, 
Kashmir . 


The Scale of charges for the remuneration of Valuers appointed by the Cen 
tral Government for yaluing any property shall be as fixed below and no such 
valuer shall charge a fee at a scale higher than the scale so fixed . 

Scale of Charges 
On the first Rs. 50 ,000 /- of the property so valued . . . . 1 % of the value. 
On the next Rs. 1,00 ,000 / - of the property so valued . . . . * % of the value. 
On the balance of the property 80 valued . . . . . . . 1 % of the value . 

[No . 1 /F , No. 5 / 145 / 58 - ED .] 

D . SUBRAMANIAN , Dy. Secy . 
(Department of Revenue ) 

ORDER 

STAMPS 

New Delhi, the 12th January 1959 
8 . O . 176 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central Govern 
mnent hereby remits the whole of the stamp duty chargeable under sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 8 of the said Act on the debentures of Rs. 10 lakhs to be issued by 
the Municipal Committee , Sagar , to the Punjab National Bank Limited . 

[No. 2. F . No. 1/ 2 / 59 - Stamps / Cus. VII.] 

D . N . LAL , Under Secy . 


242 


THE CAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGILA 4, 1880 


Part II 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE AND LAND CUSTOMS, 

BOMBAY 

NOTICE 

Bombay , the 13th January 1959 
S . O . 177 . Whereas it appears that the marginally noted goods which were 

seized by the S . R . Police , Ramghat on 10th November 
Description . Quantity . 1958 at Nenewadi, a place in the vicinity of Goa 

B .Mds , Sro. border , were imported by Land , from Goa (Portuguese 
14 bags of Goa 

Territory in India ) In contravention of Section 5 ( 1 ) 
betelnuts . 

14 36 of the Land Customs Act , 1924 and the Government 

of India , Ministry of Commerce and Industries Im 
port Control Order No. 17 / 55 dated 71h December 1955 issued under the Import 
& Export (Control) Act , 1947 and deemed to have been issued under Section 19 
of the Sea Customs Act , 1878 . Now therefore, any person claiming the goods is 
hereby called upon to show cause to the Dy. Collector of Central Excise and Land 
Customs Bombay why the above mentioned goods should not be confiscated under 
Section 5 ( 3 ) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with Section 167 ( 8 ) of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 and why a penalty should not be imposed on him under Sec 
tion 7 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Land Customs Act , 1924 read with Section 167 ( 8 ) of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 . 

Ir such an owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed 
goods or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days 
from the publication of this notice in the Government of India Gazette , the goods 
in question will be treated as unclaimed and the case will be decided accordingly . 

[No. VIII (b ) 10 ( 259 ) Cus ./ 53 .] 
H . C . BAHRI, Dy . Collector , 


NOTICE 

Bombay , the 15th January 1959 
Shri Edward George Heinz. 
61E , Cabezas St. San Roque, 

Cavite City , PHILLIPPINE ISLAND , 
SUB: - Setzure of foreign currency (American dollars ), Cigarette , Gillette 

blades etc , 
S . O . 178 . -- Whereas it appears that the above mentioned goods have been 
Imported by land from Goa without a permit as required under Section 5 ( 1 ) of 
the Land Customs Act, 1924 and whereas the said goods were not covered by a 
Jicence as required by the Government of India , Commerce Deptt., Ministry of 
Commerce and Industries Order No. 17 / 55 dated 7th December 1055 issued under 
the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 and whereas the Order is deomed 
to have been issued under Section 19 of the Sea Customs Act , VIII of 1878 and 
whereas the foreign curroncy was imported into India in contravention of the 
Reserve Bank of India Notification No. FERA 87 / 49 -RB , dated 10th September 
1949 as amended issued under Section 8 ( 1 ) of the Foreign Exchange Regulations 
Act, 1947 and deemed to have been issued under Section 19 of the Sea Customs 
Act , 1878 . And whercas it appears that the actions of Shri Edward George Heinz 
as a person concerned in these offences attract the operation of Section 7 ( 1 ) ( c ) 
of the Land Customs Act , 1924 read with Section 167 ( 8 ) of the Sea Customs Act , 
1878 , Now therefore Shri Edward George Heinz is hereby required to show 
cause to the undersigned why a penalty should not be imposed on him under 
these Sections and why the above mentioned goods should not be confiscated 
under Section 5 ( 3 ) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with Section 167 (8 ) of 
the Sea Customs Act, 1878 , 

2 . Shri Edward George Helnz is further directed to produce at the time of 
showing cause all the evidence upon which he intends to rely in support of his 
defence . He is further directed to inform the undersigned whether he desires to 
be heard in person by the undersigned in the case . 

3. If no cause is shown against the action proposed to be taken within ten 
days of the receipt of this notice , the case will be dccided exparte . 

[NO. VIII (b ) 10 ( 14 ) Cus / 58. ] 

T. C . SETH , Collector, 


Sec. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


228 


- - 


- 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

ESTATE DUTY 

New Delhi, the 19th January 1959 
S . O . 179 . - The following draft of further amendments to the Estate Duty 
Rules, 1953 " , which the Central Board of Revenue propose to make in exercise of 
the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 85 of the Estate Duty Act , 
1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , is published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section 
85 , for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby , and notice is 
hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
21st February , 1959. 

2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
said Board . 

Draft Amendment 
In the said rules, rule 31 shall be renumbered as sub -rule ( 1 ) thereof and 
after sub - rule ( 1 ) as so renumbered , the following sub - rule shall be inserted , 
namely : - 
“ ( 2 ) The policy together with the above-mentioned assignment shall be 

forwarded to the Controller of Estate Duty for the purpose ot accep 
tance on behalf of the President of India . The acceptance on behal 
of the President by the Controller shall be recorded in the following 

form : 
" I, C . D . Controller of Estate Duty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .hereby accept the above 

mentioned assignment on behalf of the President of India under 
clause ( f ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of sectson 33 of the Estate Duty Act , 


1953 . " 


Explanatory Note 
( This note is not a part of the amendment. It is given with a view to explain 
the purpose of the amendment), 

This is a formal amendment designed to provide for the acceptance of the 
assignment on behalf of the President by the Controller of Estate Duty . 

[No. 2 / F . No. 12 / 12/ 55 - E . D .) 

D . SUBRAMANIAN , Seçy. 


MINISTRY OF STEEL , MINES AND FUEL 

(Dopartment of Mines & Fuel) 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1959 
S .O . 180. - In exorcise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
15 of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety ) Act, 1952 ( 12 of 1952 ) , read 
with rule 20 of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety ) Rules, 1954, and in 
supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Steel, Mines and Fuel (Department of Mines and Fuel) No. S . O . 18 , dated the 
8th February , 1958 , the Central Government hereby reconstitutes the Technical 
Advisory Committee (Mining ) which shall consist of the following persons, 
namely : 
Shri S . Mukherjee , Chief Mining Chairman (nominated by the Coal 
Engincer , and Member , 

Board ) . 
Coal Board. 
Shri G . S . Jabbi, Additional Member ( nominated by thc Chief 

Chief Inspector of Mines Inspector of Mines ) . 

in India . 
Shri S . G . Krishnan , Chief Min Member , 

ing Adviser , Eastern Rail 


ways. 


Member (nominated by the Director, 

Geological Survey of India ) . 


Shri A , B . Dutta, Deputy Direc 

tor ( Survey ) , Geological 

Survey of India . 
* S . R . O , 556 of 1954 . 


- 


- 


244 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[PART II 


LP 


Shri A . A , Beard , Messrs. Bird 

& Co . 
Shri C . R . Sharma, Superinten 

dent of Collleries ( Co 
ordination ) , National Coal Members ( representatives of mining 
Development Corporation 

interests co - opted by the Board ) . 
( P ) Ltd ., Ranchi. 
Shri M . K . Bosę, Messrs. Mac 

neill & Barry Ltd . 
Shri B . H . Engineer , Messrs. 

Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd . 
Shri U . N . Jha, Inspecting Officer, Coal Board , Dhanbad will act as Secretary 
to the Committee. 

[No. C6 - 4 ( 1 ) /58. ] 
P . N . DHIR , Under Secy . 


(Department of Iron and Steel) 

New Delhi, the 17th January , 1959 . 
S . O . 181 ESS. COMM / IRON AND STEEL -2 (c ) AM /(32 ). - In exercise of the powers con 
ferred by sub - clause (c ) of clause 2 of the Iron and Steel (Control) Order , 1956 , the Central 
Government hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made to the notification 
of the Government of India , in the Ministry of Steel, Mincs and Fuel, No. S . R . O , 2041/ ESS . 
COMM /IRON AND STEEL - 2 (c ), dated the Inth June, 1957, as amended from time to time 
Damely : 

" In the Schiedule annexed to the said notification , in columns 2 and 3 thereof , against OTHERS 
the following entrics shall be added , namely : 


I 


.. 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - 
( 37 . Deputy Chief Controllers (Export Pro - 1 4 and 5 

motion ) at Madras , Bombay and Cal In respect of releases Iron and Steel 
cutta , 

1 . (including tin platcs) under S . O . No. 
38. Deputy Director of Export Promotion , 1 2643 -ESS . COMM Iron and Stecl- 15 

Ministry of Commerce and Industry, I) published in the Gazette of India 
New Delhi. 

Extraordinary dated 18 - 12 - 58 under 
Part 11 - Section 3 -Sub - Scction ( ), as 
Amended from time to time." 


(No. SC (A )- 4 (540 . ] 


New Dethi, the 19th January 1959 
8 . 0 . 182. - / ESS . COMM / IRON AND STEEL - 2 ( c ) / AM (33) , - In exerctae of 
the powers conferred by sub - clause ( c ) of clause 2 of the Iron and Steel (Control) 
Order , 1956 , the Central Government hereby directs that the following further 
amendment shall be made to the notification of the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel, No. S .R . O . 2041 / ESS , COMM / IRON AND 
STEEL - 2 ( c ) , dated the 11th June, 1957, as amended trom time to time, namely : 
In the Schedule annexed to the said notification, la column 2 thereof, against 

WEST BENGAL , for the existing entries at Nos . 1 to 3 , the following 
shall be substituted , namely : 


" 1. Director of Industries West Bengal. 
2 . Deputy Director of Industrles (Iron and Steel) , 

West Bengal. 
3 . All Assistant Directors of Industries ( Iron and Steel) , 

West Bengal 


[No. SC ( A ) - 1 (18 ) /89.) 


Sec 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959/MAGHA 4 , 1880 


245 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 17th January 1959 
S . O . 188.- -ESS . COMM / IRON AND STEEL - 15 ( 1 ) / Corr, ( 1 ). In the Iron 
and Steel Controller s Notification relating to the special concessional Col. I and 
Col. II maximum selling prices for Prime quality steel, Pig Iron and Tinplates, 
notified by the Government of India in the Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel, 
(Department of Iron and Steel ) , Notification No. S . 0 . 2643 - ESS , COMM / IRON 
AND STEEL - 15 ( 1 ) , dated the 17th December , 1958 , published in the Gazette of 
India Extraordinary, Part II , Section 3 , Sub - Section ( ii ) , dated the 18th Decem 
ber , 1958 , the following corrections shall be made, namely :-- 
For the words " on the authority of the Quota Certificates issued by the 

Deputy Chief Controllers of Export Promotion at Madras , Bombay , 
Calcutta and Delhi” occurring in the last paragraph of the abovesaid 

notification ; 
Read " on the authority of the Quota Certificates issued by the Deputy Chief 

Controllers ( Export Promotion ) at Madras , Bombay and Calcutta 
and the Deputy Director of Export Promotion , Ministry of Com 
merce and Industry , New Delhi.” 

A . S . BAM , Iron and Steel Controller . 

(No. SC ( A ) -4 ( 540 ) / 58. ] 
J. S . BAIJAL , Under Secy . 


(Department of Steel, Mines aud Fuel) 

New Delhi, the 19th January 1959 
$ . O . 184 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) , of section 4 
of the Coal Mines ( Conservation and Safety ) Act, 1952 ( 12 of 1952) , the Central 
Government has appointed the following as Chairman and member , respectively , 
of the Coal Board , with effect from the date shown against each : 
1 . Shri A . Zaman , ICS , Coal Controller with the Government of India , 

vice Shri P . M . Nayak , ICS. - (Afternoon of the 3rd January 1959 ) . 
2 . Shri S . S . Grewal, Chief Inspector of Mines in India , vice Shri G . S . Jabbi, 

Additional Chief Inspector of Mines - – 31st December , 1958 . 
2 . It is hereby notified for general information that the Coal Board now 
consists of the following persons who have been appointed by the Central Govern 
ment as Chairman and members thereof, namely : 

Chairman 
1. Shri A . Zaman , ICS , Coal Controller. 

Members 
2 . Shri S . S . Grewal, Chief Inspector of Mines in India . 
3 . Shri S . V . M . Sundaram , Deputy Coal Controller , (Distribution ) , 
4 . Shri S . Mukherjee , Chief Mining Engineer, Coal Board . 
5 . Shri B . K . Ghosh , Deputy Coal Controller, (Production ) , 

[No. 05 - 1 ( 1 ) /59. ] 
CHHEDI LAL , Dy . Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 16th January 1959 
S . O . 185 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following further amendments 
in the Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research , Lucknow (Recruitment to Gazetted 
Posts ) Rules, 1958 , namely : 

1. In the Schedule to the said rules : 


246 


( a ) after the entries relating to the Agriculture Engineer, the following 

entries relating to the Gur Chemist, shall be inserted , namely : 
Recruitment Rules for the post of Gur Cherrast under the Gur Grading Scheme at Indian Institute of Sugarcane Rescarch , 

Luckorom (Alinistry of Food and Agriculure, 


Name of post No. of Classifi - 

posts cation 


Scale of pay 


te 


post 


V 


Whe- AgeEducational and other Whe- Period Method In case Ifa Circun 
ther limit qualification 

ther of proofrectt, ofrecit, DPC stances in 
selec - for 

required 

age bation whether by exists which 
tion direct 

and if any by direct promo- what UPSC 
post or recruits 

educa 

Of by tiop , is its is to be 
1101 

tional 

prono trans- compo consulted 
selection 

qualifi non or 

in making 
cations transfer grades 

recet. 
prescri 

from 
bed for 

percent - which 
the 

age of promo 
direct 

the yaca . tion to 
recruits 

acies to be 
will ap 

be filled made 
ply in 

by various 
the 

methods 
case of 
promo 
tees 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JINUARY24.1959/MAGHA4,1880 


Trasai 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


Rs. 


Gur- Chemist , 


NA. 


Below 


NA. 


N . A . 


45 


I G . C . S . 6000 100 

Class I 1000 - 1050 
Gazetted , 105O - IIOO 

1100 / 1150 . 


Two By direct 
years. recruit 

ment. 


NA. As required 

under the 
rules. 


years , 


Essential : 
O Master s or equi 
valent Honours 
degree in Chemi 
stry from a recog 
nised Univer 
sity . 

OR 
Degree in Science of 

a recogaised Uni 
versity followed 


[PARTII 


SEC.3(ii)] 


by a diploma in 
Sugar Technology 
from a recognised 
Institute . 

About 5 years 
practical experi 
ence of initiating 
and guding re 
search in Gur Of 
Sugar Techno 

logy . 
Qualifications relak 

able at Commis 
sion s discretion in 
case of candidates 
otherwise well 

qualified . 
Desirable : 
Experience of sugar 

manufacture in a 
Sugar Factory as 
2 Chemist. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY24,1959/MAGHA4,1880 


247 


248 


(b ) after the entries relating to the Chemist -in -Charge (Gur & Khandsari 

Scheme ) , the following entries relating to the Soil Survey Officer 
shall be inserted , namely : 
Recruitment rules for the post of Soil Swody Officer at the Indian Institute of Sugarcane Researeh , Lucknuet . 


Seale of pay 


Name of post No. of Classifi - 

posts cation 


Whe - Age Educational and other Whe- Period Method In case Ifa Circuna 
the limit qualifications required ther of pro - of recit. ofrecit . DPC stances 
selec - for 

age and bation whether by exists in which 
tion direct 

educa - if any by direct prumo- what is U . P . S .C . 
post or recruits 

tional 

or by tion its is to be 
non 

qualifi 

prono trans- compo - consulted 
selection 

cations 

tion or fer , sition in making 
post 

prescri transfer 

rcctt. 
bed for 

from 

percent Which 
direct 

age of promo 
recruits 

the vaca - tion 
will ap 

ncies to to be 
ply in 

be filled made 
the 

by various 
case of 

methods 
promo 
tees. 


the 


. 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
JANUARY 
24 
, 
1059 
/ 
MAGHA 
4 
, 
1880 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


8 


9 


10 


I 


12 


13 


Soil Survey 

Oficer . 


I G . C . S . 

Class II 
Gazetted 


Rs. 
275 - 25 -- 500 

EB = 300 650 
EB = 30 – 800 


Selection Below 

35 


2 
years 
for 

direct 
rectes . 


Class 

II 
D . P . C . 


As re 
quired un 
der the 
rules . 


Years , 


Essential : 

Edu .- 
(1) Master s degree Yes 

in Chemistry Of Age . 
in Agricultural No 
Chemistry or B . Sc . 
(Agri. ) with post 
graduate diploma 
in Soil Chemistry 
from a recognised 
University ; Instit 

tion . 
( ii) About 3 years 


By pro - Promis- 
motion in 
failing ( a ) R , 

which A . 
by direct ( Che 
recruit mical) 
ment. (6 ) Sr. 

Soil & 
Asstt . 
CC Sr. 
Chemi 


- 


[ 
PART 
II 


Asstt 
Litly 5 
Tears 
sertice 
in the 
grade. 


SEC.3(u) 


experience of re 
search in Soil vui 
particular refer 

ence to Soul Survey . 
Qualfications relay 

uble at Conmis 
sion s discretion in 
case of candidates 
otherwise well 

qualified 
Desirable : 
no Some teaching 

experiente in Soil 
172 ] Research experi 

ence nf trace ele 
ments in Sni ). 


[No 4 -3 /59. Scane Instt ] 
UDHRAIN , Under Secy . 


S . D 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY24,1959/MAGHA4,1880 


1 


249 


250 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[PART II 


( Department of Agriculture) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 15th January 1959 
S . O . 186 . - In pursuance of the sub - clause ( 1 ) of clause 3 of the Fruit Pro 
ducts Order , 1955 , the Central Government hereby constitutes for a period of 
two years from the date of this order , the Central Fruit Products Advisory 


Chairman 
1. Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India , Licencing 
Officer , Nagpur. 

Members 
Clause 3 ( 1 ) ( a ) , 
2 . Shri Naoroj. D . Kooka, c / o 

Messrs . Ardeo , 13 / 19 , 

Medows Street, Bombay . 
3 . Shri Vittal Mallya, c / o 

Messrs . Kissan Products 
Ltd ., 32 , Grant Road , 
Bangalore. 

Elected by the Licencees in the 
4 . Shri K . C . Chakarwarty , c / o 

Northern , Central, Western , Eastern 
Messrs, Imperial Fruit 

and Southern Zones . 
Preservation Co., Cal 

cutta . 
5 . Shri Lila Dhar , c / o Messrs. 

D . D . Harisharan Lila 
dhar, New Misri Bazar , 

Amritsar. 
6 . Shri Manohar Lal Aroura, 

c / o Messrs . Aroura Fruit 
Industries , Charbagh , 
Lucknow . 


Clause 3 ( 1 ) ( b ) . 
7 . Shri H . C . Bhatnagar, M .Sc., Nominated members possessing, in the 
c / o Chocs Canning (Pri 

opinion of the Licensing Officer , 
vate ) Ltd ., Nagpur. 

suitable technical qualifications with 
8 . Shri A . V . Reddy, ( B .Sc. Eng., regard to the manufacture of Fruit 
England ) , Managing 

Products . 
Director , India Fruit Ltd .. 

Kadiyam (Andhra ) . 
Clause 3 ( 1 ) ( c ) . 
9 . Dr. Girdhari Lal, Assistant Dircctor, F Central Food Technological 

Research Institute , Mysore , 
Clause 3 (1) ( d ). 
10 . Dr. Sham Singh , Deputy Agricultural Commissioner , Indian Council of 

Agricultural Rescarch , Queen Victoria Road , New Delhi- 1. 
Clause 3 ( 1 ) ( e ) . 
11. Dr. P . K . Kymal, Technical Adviser , Government of India , Ministry of 

Food & Agriculture ( Department of Food ) , Room No. 182 , Krishi 

Bhavan , Queen Victoria Road , New Delhi. 
Clause 3 ( 1 ) (ee ) . 
12 . Pandit Shri Ram Sharma, 

Vice - Chairman , U . P 
Fruit Development Board , 
Balika Basti, Agra . 

Representative of fruit and vegetable 
13 . Shri S . D . D . Nichols Roy , 

growers. 
Managing Director , The 
United Fruit Co., Ltd . 

Shillong , Assam , India . 
Clause 3 ( 1 ) ( f) . 

Member Secretary 
14 . Shri P . H . Bhatt , Senior Marketing Development Officer , Fruit Products, 
Department of Marketing & Inspection , Nagpur. 

[No. F . 4 - 78 / 68 -AM .] 
S . NIGAM , Under Secy . 


SEC. 3 (! )] 


THE GAZETTÉ OF INDIA : JANUARY- 24 , 1959/ MAGHA 4 , 1880 


251 


= 


- 


= 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 6th January 1959 
S . O . 187 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 8 
of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 ( 19 of 1925 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that the following institution shall be added to the Schedule of the said 
Act : 
" Kalavati Saran Children s Hospital, New Delhi" . 

[No. F . 15 - 13 /57 -MII . ] 


New Delhi, the 8th January 1959 
S . O . 188 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 8 
of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 ( 19 of 1925 ), the Central Government hereby 
directs that the provisions of the said Act shall apply to the provident fund 
established for the benefit of non -pensionable employees of the Kalavati Saran 
Children s Hospital, New Delhi, 

[No. F . 15 - 13 / 57 -MII.] 


New Delhi, the 13th January 1959 
S . O . 189 . — In pursuance of sub - rule ( d ) of rule 2 of the Indian Medical Coun 
cil Rules, 1957 published with the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Health S . R . O . No . 1319 , dated the 16th April, 1957, the Central Gov 
ernment hereby appoints Dr. Jagdish Singh , Director of Health Services, Punjab , 
as Returning Omccr for Punjab for the conduct of election of a member to the 
Medical Council of India under clause ( c ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the 
Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 . 

[No. F . 5 - 40 / 58 - M . I.] 


New Delhi, the 14th January 1959 
S . O . 190 . - In pursuance of item ( 30 ) in Part II of the Schedule to the Dentists 
Act 1948 ( 16 of 1948 ) , the Dental Council of India hereby approve the following 
foreign qualification , namely : 
" The Degree of Doctor of Philosophy granted by the School of Medicine and 
Dentistry , University of Rochester, Rochester U . S . A ," 

S . BRATT, LDSc., FICD , 

Secretary , 
Dental Council of India . 

[No . F.6 -13 /58- M .I.] 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 

( Department of Transport ) 
( Transport Wing) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 17th January 1959 
S . O . 191. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 and sub -section ( 2 ) 
of section 9 of the Bombay Port Trust Act, 1879 (Bombay Act VI of 1879 ) , and 
in supersession of the Ministry of Transport Notification No. 8 - C - PI( 6 ) /57, dated 
the 1st June 1957, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri C . P , Srivastava , 
Senior Deputy Director General of Shipping to be a member of the Bombay Port 
Trust Board (representative of the Mercantile Marine Department, Bombay ) in 
place of Shri S . V . Kailasapathy, Deputy Director General of Shipping. 

[No . 8-PG ( 1)/ 59. ] 
K . NARAYANAN , Dy. Secy . 


252 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1969 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[PART II 


(Department of Transport ) 

( Transport Wing ) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 17th January 1959 
S . O . 192 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 273 of the Indian 
Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 ( 21 of 1923 ) the Central Government hereby 
appoints the District Magistrate ( Judicial) , Kanyakumari, as the person to re 
ceive and take possession of wreck and to perform the duties connected therewith , 
within the Kanyakumari district and makes the following further amendment in 
the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Transport 
No. S . R . O . 138 dated the 7th January 1953, namely : 
In the Schedule to the said notification , for the entries " The Sub - Division 

al Magistrate at Colachel" and " The local jurisdiction of the Magis 
trate " occurring in the second and third columns against section 273 , 
the entries " The District Magistrate ( Judicial) Kanyakumari" and 
" The District of Kanyakumari" shall respectively be substituted . 

[ No. 33-MA (5 ) /58.] 
S . K . VENKATACHALAM , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Communications ) 

( P . & T .) 

New Delhi, the 19th January 1959 
S . O , 193 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Indian 
Post Office Act, 1898 ( 6 of 1898 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments to the Indian Post Office Rules , 1933 , namely : -- 
In item ( d ) of sub - rule ( 1) of rule 30 of the said Rules before the proviso , 

the following shall be inserted , namely : 
" In cases where the proprietor , manager or publisher cannot adhere to the 

provision of three days notice due to reasons beyond his control, the 
Postmaster General may in relaxation of the said provision permit 
the posting of the newspaper at any time subsequent to the prescrib 
ed date provided the application for late posting is received by him 
before the prescribed date of posting . The interval between the 
dates of publication of the issue sought to be posted late and the 
previous one shall not in any case exceed 31 days" , 

[No. 6 /37 /58 - CI. ] 

K . K . SARAN , Dy. Secy 
MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

( Railway Board ) 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1959 
S . O . 194 . - It is notifled for general information that the Deputy General 
Manager , North East Frontier Railway , Katihar, is ex - officio authorised to act for 
and on behalf of the Central Government in respect of any judicial proccedings 
in which the North East Frontier Railway may be concerned . 

[ No, E (G ) 58LL2 -14.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1959 
S . O . 195 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by rules I of order XXVII of 
the first schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 read with section 141 of 
the said Code, the Central Government hereby appoints the Deputy General 
Manager , North East Frontier Railway , Katihar to sign and verify plaints, written , 
statements , pctitions, applications including applications for cxecutions and any 
other pleadings or proceedings in any suit or other proceedings by or against the 
Central Government in respect of the North East Frontier Railway . 

[No. E ( G ) 58LL2 - 14 . ] 

R . E . DE SA , Secy 


Src. (ii)] THF GVEITE OF INDIA JIVUARY 24 1059 /MAGHA 4, 1880 253 

- - - - 

-- - 
MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1959 
S . O . 196 . In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub - section 
( 4 ) of Section 1 nt the Electricity ( Supply ) Act, 1948 (54 of 1948 ) and in partial 
modifcation of Notification No EL - III 301 ( 7 ) , dated the 27th December , 1958, the 
Central Government hereby further extends the period referred to in the said 
notification 11 the case of the Punjab, upto and including the 28th February , 1959 . 

[Nº EL - III- 301 ( 7) .] 
G . D KSHETRAPAL , Dy. Secy 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 10th January 1959 
3 . 0 . 197. — Whercas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary 
to acquire the evacuee properties in the schedule hereto annexed in the State of 
Blhar for a public purpose , being a purpose connected with the relief and reha 
bilitation of displaced persons, including payment of compensation to such per 
sons ; 

Now , thereforc , in cxercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dis 
placed Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , it is 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire , and hereby acquires 
the evacuee properties specified in the said Schedule 


THE SCHEDULE 


S. 


Holding with ward 

No, 


Locality in which situated 


Name of Evacuce 


2 


- 


- - - 


antw 


DO 


Do. 


Do. 


I 106 / 113 . Kharjarpur 

Khan Bahadur Md . Ismul. 
2 96 / 103 Do 

Firoza Khatun w /o A , Halim , 
3 20 /23 DO 

Md Amiruddin 
20123A Do 

Md . Aniruddin , 
92 /99 Do 

Do 
One pucua khepra 

pose two storicd 

house. 
7 3 /3 

, , Farislone, Rapatgan ), Adamapur S M . A Khorasani, 
$ 5 / 5 

Do . 

Do. 
9 6 /6 

, Md, Maqbul Ali, 
IO 2 / 2 

Do 

. Amzid Ali. 
ir 63 /68 . 

. Raja S N Road , Masaque Chak , Dr. Wezul Haquc, 

Bhagalpur. 
12 64/69 . 

Do , 

Do. 
13 - /33 

Gola Ghat Road, Bhagalpur , Abdul Wahud , 
14 - / I . Sarai Kalighat Road 

Gulam Sahabas. 
15 6 / 7 

Wazarat Hussain Lang, Mulla Chak Do. 
16 - / 32 Sat adat Hussain Lane , Mulana 

D , 
chak 
17 5 / 15 

Badul Musaina Lane, Mulana AbulHussain , 

Chak . 
18 - / 18 

Bizalichak 

. 
. 

. Tafazul Hussain . 
19 - 17 . Jobbon Chet 

. Wasif Khatama. 
20 28 / 31 

Middle Natha Nagar Road , Asght Ali. 
21 31/ 30 : Winding Road , Husama Bad . Md, Hussain Alam s /o Late 

Idrish Alam of Husaina Bag. 
22 36 /35 

Do. 

. Abdul Rauf. 
23 21 /24 . Mafiz Ilu9ain Lane, 

Hafizur Rahaman . 
Sikandarput, 


254 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[Part II 


ORAGE 


NNN WONSOOH 


- 


24 22 /25 . . Sikandarpur 

· Hafizur Rehman . 
25 20 /23 

. Igharul IIussain . 
26 27 / 36 . 

. Win ling Road ,Mghalpur Bibi Zin ucu Nissa , 
27 - SS 

. 

Purab Tola , Kahalgaon . Sk . Isaque . 
28 64/65 . Factory Road , Barari 

Syed Gulam Zılanı, 
29 - 32 Mulla Chak 

Gulam Solawal . 
30 - 169 

Imam Uddin , 
31 17, Ward No. II, Cir - Vikhimpur Road , Vikhampur Musa Khan . 

clc No. IV . 
32 One house , . 

Tasatak Ilussain , 
33 Do . . 

10 . 

Zahir Alam . 
34 12 . Ashanandpur 

Anwari Begam . 
35 11/ 10 . Sikandurpur 

Bibi Noor Zahan Begum W /O 

Sanasul Haque . 
36 66 /66 Mulana Chak 

Farzand Alimad , 
37 II Mirazan Hat Road 

. Abdul Hai. 
38 50 /53 Kharijarpur, Road , 

Sabdul Mian , 
39 16 / 16 . 

Mabıhan Palti Lanc, Sujaganj . Abdul Gunni. 
40 - 155 . Ganichak , Bhagalpur 

, Fakirullah , 
41 - / 3 Sarai Bhagalpur 

. Abdul Quddus. 
42 21/22 . 

Kudarat Hussair. Lanc , Barala - BibiAhamadi Khanaw . 

pura , 
43 76 /77. . . . Factory Road , Brari . . Aklatar Ilussain . 
One house Mohabili Chak , . Nafiz Khan , Bazid Khan , and 

Nawiz Kban , 
Salamad Hussain Road , Barah - Bibi Moima Khalun w o Zahirul 
pur. 

Hague , 
46 One house , Mohabilli Chik . . . Nutiz Khan , Bazid Khan and 

Nawiz Khun . 
47 1/ 22 Ward No. V , Jubbar Chak . . . . Md Salim . 

Circle No. IX . 
48 37 Ward No . 1, Circle Khanjarpur . . . . Bibi Sakina Khalun . 

* No. 21 , 
49 Onc house . Banka 

. Syei Raza Hugsajlı , 
50 I / I . . : Durakhan Lanc , Adampur . Md. Isinail . 
51 12 (old ) 15 (New ) Khanjarpur Road , , K . B , Ismail and Brother Halu 
Ward No. I 

of Khanjarpur . 
Circle No . II. 
52 2 Ward No. I . Gurbat Jamadar Lane 

Do, 
53 I Ward No . I , Dumpklan lanc 

. K . B . Md. Ismail of Kharagpur, 

Bhagalpur. 
54 13 / 14 Ward No. I . Loki Kabari Lanc 

Do, 
55 TO Ward No. I . Faris Lanc Ropatganj, Adampur Nozaimuddin , 
56 57 Ward No. 8 . Hafiz Hussaini Lane, Sikandarpur Hafizul Rahaman of Sikandarpur. 
57 18 Ward No. 8 . Hafiz Hussaini Lane, Sikandarpur Hafizul Rahmy of Sikandarpur. 
58 26 Ward No . 8 . Do. 

Halizur Hussain s /o Majihur 
Rahmı , Sikandarpur, Bha 

galpur. 
59 7 Ward No. 8 . Do. 

Izhurul Hussain of Sikandarpur, 

Bhagalpur . 
60 8 Ward No. 8 , Do, 

Do , 
61 19 Ward No . 8 Do. 

Do . 
62 Ii Ward No. 8 , . Hafiz Hussain Lane . 

Do . 
Circle No. 15 . 
63 29 Ward No. 5, Circle Upper Clive Lane Road . Julam Sahabas of Muluna Dhak , 
No. 8 . 

Bhagalpur. 
64 14 Ward No. 8 , Circle Haddul Mussain Lane , . D . 

No. 4 . 
65 71 Ward No. 3 , Circle Middlc dive land Road , Adam - Dr. Wzu Haquc of Musskchuk , 
No. 5 . pur. 

Bhagalpur . 
66 36 Ward No. 8, Circle Mogalpura , Misjan Hai , Syeed Ebrar Hussain No Late 
No. 14 . 

Bilai Hussain & Moghal 

pura , 
67 6 Ward No. 4 . Circle Kasimb iga Molalla , , Alla Bux s /o Lac Saddo Khalifa 
No. 7 . 

of Kesimbag. 


SEG . $ (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1999)MAGLIA 4 , 1880 

- - 


255 

G 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 

- - - - - - - 
08 71 Ward No. I , Citul Darari Rual . . . Sywi Guianu iv Juuvin and 
No, I , 

Syci G : 1 ? m Zilani, 8 /0 Ata 

Hii7 of Bi" 11 
69 14 Ward No. 9 . Matiz Hussain Lune, Sikin lurpur Bibi Noor Zihin Begum w /o 

S77774913] Haque , Sikundar 

pur. 
70 26 Ward No. 2 , Cır- Kuderat Huss 1111 Lille , Brahupura Md. Sirajuddin . 

cle No. 4 
71 51 Ward No. 2, Circle Alirleku Lane, Billepala Sirujuvuin . 

No, 4 . 
72 54 Ward No. 2 , Circle Dr . . 

! 
No. 4 , 
73 51 Ward No. 2, Cir - Sahadat Hussain L214, Bialapura Azizuddin , 

cle No. 4 . 
74 I5 Ward No. 2 , Cir - Kudarat Ilus ( 11 Lane . Braha- Rosanara Bcgam , 
cle No. 4 , 

pura, 
75 123 Ward No . 2, Cii - Do . 

Do. 
cle 4 . 
76 33 Ward No. 5 , Ciclc Saray , 

. , Abilul Kudu Khan and Abdul 
No. 9 . 

Basid Khan s /o L . Kusamat 

Ali Khan of Sarui. 
77 Onc house . . Ganj Chauk . . . . Nizinudin vf Ganichauk . 
78 II Ward No. 5 , Circle Jabbar Chak . 

. . Bibi Akaburi wlo Nibbi Bun of 
No. 8 . 

Talurpur. 
79 18 Ward No. 5 , Circle Logar Asilam Nath Nugar 

Do. 
No, 8 . 
8o 8 (old ) 19 (New ) Saliebganj , , . Lalif lhunia s/o Matu Nadef, 
Ward No. 6 Circle 

Salubganj, Nath Nagar . 
No. 3 . 
81 One house . . Barari . . . . . Syed Gulam Mohiuddin and 

fus wile Bibi Rabiya of 

Burari. 
82 83/ 76 Ward No. 8 Mussainabug . . . Md, Mohafazul Haque Windung 
Circle No, 14 . 

Road , Hussaina Bag . 
83 35 and 24 . . Mir Fekulane, B irahapura , Kuzi Kalimuddin . 
84 6 . . , Mirdhalanc Barahapura . , Noor IIlgain s /o Karamat of 

Brahapura , 
85 32 . Viklanpur Road · · · Abdul Kaimum Postman 

Vikhanpur. 
86 31 Du 

Do . 
87 i Ward No. 1 Circle Nandlal Mishralane Khanjarpur Abdul Hussain of Khanjarpui. 

No, I . 
88 55 Ward No. 2 Circlc Vikhanpur Road 

Ayub Khan of Vikhanpur. 
No. 4 . 
89 69 Du, 

D ) 
90 29 . . . Du 

D . , 
91 64 . . . Di, 

D ) , 


81 on One 


DO, 


D 


). 


1 


94 One housc 


. 


D .. 
. Barahupura 


ise 
96 Onc house 


, 
. 


, Hussainabag 
. Mohaballichik 


D ) , 
- Zamaluddin & Md. Siraj so 

L . Amir Bux of Brahapur, 
Bibi Wagimin of Hussainabag . 
. Nazib Khun , Nabiz Khan and 

Bazid Khan So L . Blurar 

Khan of Mohabatuli chak , 
, S . K . Taiyab . 
. Md, Isaquc 8 /0 Rahiin Mistry , 

Khanjarpur. 
. Fakirullah , 


. 
. 


97 Onc housc . , Chameli Chak 
98 Parati Plot , Khanjurpur . 
99 55 Ward No. 8 Circle Chamcli Chak 

No. 12 , 


. 


[ NO. I ( 1222)/Comp. III / 58.1 


S . O . 198 , — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary 
to acquire the evacuee properties in the schedule hereto anncxed in the State of 
Bihar for a public purpose , being a purpose connected with the relief and reha 
bilitation of displaced persons, including payment of compensation to such per 
sons; 


256 


TIJE ( AZEITE OF INDIA : JANUARY 21, 1969 ,MIGHA 4 , 1880 


[PART IC 


- - 


- 


- 


Now , therefore , in excrcise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dis 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , it is 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquires, 
the evaruce properties specilled in the said Schedule . 


l HE SCHEDULL 


- 


1 


Name of layuClien witla 

address 


LOCALTON 


No . 


Holding No . & 

Waris Nu , 


Remarks 


- - - - - 


- - 


-- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- -- 


- 


- - 


Hai . 


TI . 


4 


Do. 


I Sh . Abu Bakar 4, 0 Sk , Maulvi Tulil Madhu - H . No. 3 , Ward No. 

Abdul Rahim , of bani, P . S , Khajanchi 13 . 
Maulvi Tola . Ma 

Jubani, Purnca . 
2 Guzu Ahammad she Do . 

IT. NO , 66, Ward No . 
Abdul of Madhu 
bani, Purnea . 
Du. 

Madhubani Barat, II, No.67 , W , No. 11 , 

Purica , 
Do . , Maulvi Tula , Muc - HI, No. 39 , W . No. y . 

hubani, Pusula , 
5 Abu Ahammel, Su 

. H . No, 28, Ward No . 
pply Inspector , 

9 . 
Mudhudani, Purnca , 
Jakar Al of Driver Driver Tols , Katihar H . No. 48 , W . NO. T. 

Tolu , Kauiliar , 
7 MaqubulMunn of Kalal Tola , Kulihar . H . No. 78, Keshra One katha of home 
Kalal Tola , Kalihur. 

No. 159 , Khata No . Olback larat. 

89 . 
8 Sk , Rafiquc at Driver Driver Tola , Katihar. H . No. 78 / 16 , Ward 
Tola , Katihar, 

NO. I , 
9 Ali Hussain 8/ 0 Md. Do . 

HO, NO. 269, Wald 3 kathas of lioms 
Hanif of Driver 

No. 1 

stead land . 
Tola , Kalihur. 
10 Khalil Main of Dri - Drivers Tola , 

H . No . 211 , Ward 
ver Tola , Katihar. Katihar . 

NO , I . 
1 Nour Moliammad of Do. 

H . No. 268 , Ward i katha oſ homc stead 
Driver Tola , Kali 

No, I . 
har . 
12 Jamaruttan of Driver 

Du . 

H . No. 35, W . No. I. 14 Jhuis of home 
T ola , Katihar 

stead lund , 
13 Ekbal Ali of Lurkanin Larkania Tula , Kati- H . No. 337 , Ward No. 1. 
Tola , Katihar , 

har 
14 Karim Main of Lar 

Do , 

H . No . 256 , Ward 
kania l ola , Katihar , 

No, I. 
15 Khalil Mian of Dri - Katihar , Driyor Tola II, No. 393 , Ward I katha of home stead 
ver Tola , Katihar. 

No. 1, 

land , 
16 Sk . Shamsul, Driver 

Do . H . No. 336 , Ward 
Tola , Katihar. 

No, I . 
Abdul Karim Khan , 

Do. 

H . No. 335, Ward 
Drivers Tola , Kati 

No. 1, 
har. 
18 Abdul Rahim of Driv 

H , No. 398 , Ward 2 kathas of home 
crl Tola . Katihar , 

No , I . 

stcad land , 
19 Umråm Mian of Dri 

Do. 

H . No. 54 , Ward No. 
ver Tola , Kuhar . 
20 Ghani Muzzam , Ma- Mahalla Line, Kish - H . No. 77 . 

halla Linc, Kishan anganj. 

ganj. 
21 Hafizuddin . . Kharagpur , Kishan - Plot of one bigha . 

gani. 


land . 


Do. 


I . 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[N ). I (1222)/Comp. III /58 -Prop-A .] 


RAJA LAL GUITA , Under Secy . 


Sec. 3 ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 

257 
- - - - - - - - 
(Office of the Chlef Settlement Commissioner ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 15th January 1959 
S . O . 199 . - In exercise of the powers conferred upon me by sub - section 
( 1 ) of Section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) 
Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ), I, L , J . Johnson , I. C . S ., Chief Settlement Commissioner , 
do hereby authorise the undermentioned Onicers in Patiala and Jullundur regions 
to make payment of compensation to Displaced Persons , out of the compensation 
pool, by Transfer of allotable property or otherwise in accordance with the pro 
visions of Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules, 1955 , 
in addition to the Officers alrcady authorised pide this Omce Order No . F . 4 (6 ) 
Comp- II /57, dated 10th October 1957, 19th December 1957, 27th February 1958 
and Orders of cven number, dated 22nd July 1958, 9th August 1958 , 28th October 
1958, 20th November 1958, 9th August 1958 and 22nd December 1958 . 

Nance of Officers 
Patialu Region 

1. Shri M . M . L . Mathur, Settlement Officer , Karnal. 

2. Shri R . D . Mathur, Assistant Settlement Officcr , Patiala . 
Jullunder Region 

1. Shri Narain Şingh , Assistant Settlement Oficer . 
2 . Sluri Mohan Kumar , Assistant Settlement Officer , 
3 . Shri L . H . Mulchanclani, Assistant Settlement Oncer . 

No. F . 4 ( 6 ) Comp- II /57- Policy - I. ] 

L . J. JOHNSON , 
Chief Settlement Commissioner . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi. the 12th January 1959 
S . O . 200. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hercby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Nagpur in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Dadabhoy Now Chirimiri Ponri Hill Collicry Co ( Pi Ltd ., 
Civil Lines , Nagpur and their workmen represented by the Chhattisgarh Colliery 
Workers, Federation , 
BEFORE SHRI P . D . VYAS, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL , NAGPUR AT BOMBAY 
REFERENCE ( CGIT ) No . 12 OF 1958 

ADJUDICATION BETWEEN 
The Management of Dadabhoy New Chirimiri Ponrı Hill Colliery Co. ( P ) 

Ltd ., Nagpur 


AND 


Their workmen represented by the Chhattisgarh Colliery Workers Federa 

tion . 
In the matter of an industrial dispute relating to remodelling of labour 
quarters , appointment of a Doctor, payment of overtime wages , etc 
APPEARANCES : 
Shri A , S . Bobde, Advocate with Saryashri M . L . Vaidya, Advocate, P . J. 

Registrar, Director of the Co, and R . S . Saraf, Secretary - Sor the Manage 

ment, 
Shri R . L . Malviya, M .P . - for the workmen . 


AWARD 
The cmployers in relation to the management of Dadabhoy New Chirimiri 
Ponri Hill Colliery Co. ( P ) Ltd ., Nagpur and their workmen reprr 
presented by the Chhattisgarh Colliery Workers Federation having jointlv 


258 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


Part II 


ANIM 


applied to the Central Government for reference of an industrial dispute between 
them to a Tribunal and the Central Government being satisfied that the said 
Chhattisgarh Colliery Workers Federation represents a majority of the work 
meu , in exorcist vî the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 10 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 it has seterred the said dispute for adjudication 
to me. 

4 . The dispute relates to the matters set forth in the said joint application 
of the parties and reproduced in the schedule annexed to the Government order 
of reference No. LRII / 2 (29) 55 , dated 26th August 1958 . 

THE SCHEDULE 
1 . Itemuuelling of labour quurturs . - Interpretation of word remodelling * 

in agreements, dated 24th January 1954 , 8th November , 1954 , 21st 

March 1955 and 6th August 1955 . 
2 . Appointment of one M . B ., B . S . Dootor , — Whether the appointment of 

one M . B ., B . S . doctor contemplated in agrcements, dated 21st March 

1955 and 6th August 1955 jy in addition to the existing doctor 
3 . ( A ) Payment of overtime wages, ( a ) Whether the employees who 

were on pay - rolls of the colliery between 1st October 1950 to 21st 
March 1955 (out of those who entered into service from 1st October 
1950 to 8th November 1954 ) and have ccased to be employees of 
the coiliery (both company and thc contractors ) for any reason 
whatsoever before 21st March 1955, are eligible to overtime pay 
ment, under the agrecments, dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 

1955 . 
( B ) Whether Chintaman shot- firer is entitled to overtime payment under 

agreements , dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955 . 
4 , A , Increase of 123 per cent. on the basic wages . — ( a ) Whether the weekly 

paid employces who have been paid 12 per cent. increase on basic 
wagcs from 7th August 1955 are eligible for arrear of payment of 
such increase for the period of their service from 1st October 1950 
or the date of their appointments to 6th August 1955 under the 

agreements, dated 21st Malich 1955 and 6th August 1955 ; 
(b ) Whether the monthly paid cmployees who were on pay - rolls of the 

Company or raising contractors betwcen 1st October 1950 to 8th 
November 1954 but have ceased to be cmployed prior to 21st March 
1955 are eligible for arrear payment of 12 per cent. increase in 
basic wagh under the agreements, dated 21st March 1955 and 6th 

August 1955 . 
( c ) Whether the shot - firers are eligible for 121 per cent, increase in basic 

Trago3 from 1st October 1950 or dates of their appointments under 

agreements, dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955 . 
( d ) Whether the agreements , dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955 

regarding 12 per cent. increase in basic wages are applicable to 

the colliery s office staft at Nagpur. 
5 . To what extant Shri Brillal, Car driver and Shri A . K . Şirkar , Electric 

Chargeman are entitled to overtime payment under agreements dated 

21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955. 
6 . What is the extent to which lighting arrangements in labour quarters 

have been contemplated under agreements , dated 21st March 1955 

und 6th Augu į 1955 . 
7 . How the recommendations of the Enquiry Committee submitted on 

12th February 1955 and referred to against Item 5 of the agreement, 

dated 21sų March 1955 are to be followed . 
8 . What should be the principle of re- imbursing the cost of medicine to 

The employees who purchase the same from outside according to 

agreement, dated 24th Jannaty 1954. 
9 . Whether the stopping of the increment of present doctor is justified in 

view of the agreement, dated 6th August 1955 . 


(d) wregardiner y s officestuial, care 


5. To whate mich 1955 ao which under år 


3 . On the usual notices being issued , the President, Chhattisgarh Colliery 
Workers Federation has filed the statement of claims on behalf of the workmen 
and the Secretary , Dadabhoy s New Chirimiri Ponri Hill Colliery Co . ( P ) Ltd . 
has Alled the written statement on behalf of the said company . The referenco 
has been made in pursuance of a joint application of the parties for that purpose 


SEQ, 8 (ü )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 / MAGHA 4, 1880 


259 


and it relates to the interpretation of certain agreements arrived at between 
the parties from time to time in respect of the matters set forth in the schedule 
to the Government order of reference . 

4 . The colliery first started about the year 1940 and it then belonged to Sir 
Dadabhoy Mancckji, In 1944 it was sub - leased to the Government of India and 
remained under the possession of the Government till 30th September 1950 . The 
present proprietors resumed possession on ist uctober 1950 and sinco then they 
are working the colliery . The employces engaged during the time of the Govern 
ment management, were since after 1950 eithr retrenched or taken back by the 
Government to their own collieries or they left. The dispute between the parties 
first originated in the year 1954, when the employers were served with a strike 
notice on 11th January 1954, At that time they arrived at an agreement, dated 
24th January 1954, then again the second strike notice was given to the 
employers on 18th October 1954 which was followed by a conciliation and ulti 
mately there took place a settlement, dated 6th November 1954 between the 
parties . The date for this settlement seems to be 6th November 1954 and not 
8th November 1954 as shown infra. The third strike notice was served on the 
employors on 23rd January 1955 to go on strike from 13th March 1955 . The 
strike as scheduled in thc notice did take place and ultimately the strike was 
withdrawn on an agrecment between the parties dated 21st March 1955 . It appears 
that there arose some difference betwcen the parties on the implementation of 
this agreement and hence there was another agreement, dated 6th August 1955 
between them . These are mainly the agreements which will be referred to here 
inafter as and when necessary in considering the various demands. 


5 . Demand No, 14Remodelling of labour quarters. Under this demand we 
are required to interpret the word remodelling with reference to the agrec 
monts , dated 24th January 1954, 6th November 1954 , 21st March 1955 and 6th 
August 1955 . There are about 1 , 100 labour quarters compriscd of several Blocks 
and the same were constructed during the time when the Government was in 
charge of the colliery , I was told that these are one room tenements of 10 x 10 
and in one Block there are six such rooms occupied by six familles . The first 
agreement in this connection is dated 24th January 1954 , Ex . U - 3 where the 
clauses Nos, 7 and 8 provide : 
" 7. Rcmodelling of labour quarters on modern standard by providing ade 

quate accommodation , construction of windows, doors and addition 

of verandahs, latrines, baths and courtyards, etc., and 
8 . Adequate arrangement of quarters for the monthly paid workers and 

extension of artisan quarters : 
The Colllery will adopt a general policy agreed to by the employers 

Organisations and implement the same as and when funds become 

available for the purpose ." 
6 . The next agreement referred to in the demand No. 1 is dated 8th Novem 
ber 1954 and Shri Malviya while opening his case stated that this was the 
agreement which took place during the conciliation after the strike noticc , dated 
18th October 1954. From the copy , Ex . C . 5 produced by the management, it 
appcars that the agreement in question is dated 6th November 1954 , where the 
clause No. 11 refers merely to sufficient arrangement for urinals and latrines 
in the labour dhauras and it provides that: 
" Application has already been made to the Chief Inspector of Mines in 

India , Dhanbad for sanction of type and size of the urinals and 
latrines . The management agreed to take nccessary action as soon 

as they get sanction from the Mines Department." 
7 . The next agreement is dated 21st March 1955 , Ex , U - 1 where the clauso 
No. 4 refers to the aforesaid clauses Nos . 7 and 8 of the first agreement, dated 
24th January 1954 for " remodelling of labour quarters on modern standard , etc ., 
etc ., and adequate arrangement of quarters " and lays down as under : - - 
" Efforts are being made for remodelling of the labour quarters . The 

management has for the time being sanctioned the construction of 

one block consisting of 2 units to begin with . 
The management applied to the Deputy Commissioner , Surguja , for surface 

right about three years ago bui upto this time the only reply we 
received after reminder is that the matter is receiving attention . 
On receipt of the surface right efforts will be made to construct 
workers quarters . The case will be referred to the Regional Labour 
Commissioner ( Central) , Nagpur tor necessary action ." 


260 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959/MAGHA 4, 1880 


(PART 11 


8 . The last agreement on the point is dated 6th August 1955 , Ex , U - " . There 
under clause No . 4 on the question of " remodelling of laboui quarters on nodern 
standard , etc ., and adequate arrangement of quarters " , it has been laid down : 

" Efforts are beine made for remodelling of labour quarters. 
Regarding adequate arrangement of quarters , the manageincnt has for the 

time being sanctioned the construction of one block consisting of two 
units to begin with as soon as the surlace rights are granted by the 

Government. This satisfies the labour Federation ." 
9 . The demand No. 1 as it stands is for the interpretation of the word fremo 
delling as used with reference to the labour quarters in the aforesaid agreements , 
If this also includes the question of adequacy of the existing quarters, then the 
last agreement dated 6th August 1955 is clear on the point that regarding adequate 
Arrangement of quarters , the management has for the time being sanctioned the 
construction of one block consisting oť two units to begin with us soon as the 
surface rights are granted by the Government and this satisfies the labour Fede 
ration . The employers representative also pointed out that the life of this colli 
ery is till 1971 A , D ., the Jease having been sanctioned upto that year and that 
they can build only on an area where there is no coal underground . It, 15 1101 
thus possible for them to have any definite housing programme within the line 
limit. Whatever it may be , in my opinion the question of remodelling of labour 
quarters under the demand No. 1 mainly refers to the remodelling of the existing 
labour quarters. Shri Malviya ulso at the time of the hcaring franklr conceded 
that remodelling does not mean construction of additional quarters and in so far 
as the demand No . 1 is concerned , what they say is that the existing luarters 
should be so remodelled as to provide for the various amenities . 

10 . Though the last two agreements dated 21st March 1955 and 6th Augusi, 
1956 merely say that efforts are being made for remodelling of labour Juarters 
without specitying what exaclly this l emodelling is to be, the Arst Ayreement 
dated 24th January , 1954 , is clear on the point when it speaks of " remodelling 
of labour quarters on modern standard hy providing adeguate accommodation , 
construction of windows, doors and addition of verandahs, latrines , baths, and 
courtyards , ctc ." In this connection the second agreement dated Oth November 
1954 further speaks of sufficient arrangement for urinals and latrines regarding 
which the mangement agreed to take necessary action as soon as they got sanc 
tion from the Mines Department. It appears that the existing one ro tenc 
inents of 10 Y 10 with only one cour as originally constructed lacked ll the 
amenities on modern standard . No room was provided with any verandah or 
window and except a few water taps which are quite inadequate looking to the 
number of the quarters , there are no latrines nor water pipe connectioni 

11 . After the first agreement dated 24th January 1954 the emplures have 
done nothing except the construction of windows which were not there pefore 
in the labour quarters , all of which by this time have admittedly got vindows. 
The employers in their written statement contend that looking to the existing 
situation of the labour quarters , the demand as made in the name of so - called 
remodelling is unrealistic and when the question of re -modelling was raised by 
the Union what the management agreed was to construct a window to each ! ! 
the rooms as that was the only practical solution to remodel the rooms as they 
are . They allege that any other type of additions or alterations are not practic 
able nor were agreed . According to them therefore the interpretation of the 
word remodelling means providing window to each of the rooms. If this was 
the understanding between the parties, the clause No . 7 in the first agreement 
dated 24th January 1954 and the clause No. 11 in the agreement dateci Gtt Novem 
ber 1954 would not have been worded as they are . The remodelling in the said 
clausc No . 7 of the first agreement is not confined to the mere construction of 
windows but it speaks in clear terms of remodelling of labour quarters on modern 
standard , by providing adequate accommodation , construction of windows, 
doors and addition of verandahs, latrines , baths, and courtyards, etc . Then 
the necessary arrangement for urinals and latrines has been further provided 
for in the said clause No. 11 of the second agreement. In view of the agreements 
as they stand , it would be entirely wrong on the part of the employe " , to say 
that what they agreed to do was merely construction of windows. 

12. In the statement of claims it has been alleged that the remoralling :19 
ugreed under the first agreement dated 24th January 1954 meant that the labour 
quarters were to be remodelled on modern standard which included ( 1 ) provision 
of adequate accommodation by addition of one more room to each unit : ( ? ) con 
struction of windows in the existing one room quarter ; ( 3 ) addition of dowry and 


SEC. ( ii )) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959/MACHA 4, 1880 


261 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


verandahs to each quarter ; (4 ) construction of latrines ; ( 5 ) bath and (0 ) Tourt 
yard . It has been further alleged in the statement of claims that the use of the 
word ctcetera goes to make the agreemont stili more comprehensive o d to 
iuclude the provision of electric light and water tap in each quarter At the 
time of the hearing Shri Malviya pointed out that ( 1 ) every Block should have 
a verandah ; ( 2 ) one additional room with a door in between should be construct 
ed so that each tenement consists of two rooms instead of one and this may be 
done in the course of five years ; ( 3 ) there should be sufficient number of litcines . 
say about 100, looking to the 6000 population of the workers ; and ( ) there 
should be one water tap for cach Block , For the purposes of remodelux, Shri 
Malviya pressed only these tour items and in my opinion the employers should 
have no objection to accept this interpretation , though the word rcmodelling as 
used in the clause No 7 of the first agreement dated 24th January 1954 lucludes 
still further items. I do not think that if there were any practical culties. 
the management would have accepted the wording as used in the agreements . 
Mly function is to interpret the word remodelling in the agreements , the contents 
whereof reproduced as aloresaid leave no doubt as to what is meant ther -by In 
so lar us the water taps And latrines are concerned , the parties have agreed that 
there should be one latrine for every 100 persons occupying labour quarters and 
that there should be one water tap per two Blocks As for the remaining two 
items, viz . providing each Block with a verandah and construction of additional 
one room with a door in between so as to convert the existing one room lanement 
into two room tenement, I hold that they are rovered under the tern ) romodel 
ling as used in the agreements between the parties, especially when the sturesaid 
clause 7 of the Arst agreement in terms speaks of the provision of adequate ac 
commodation and addition of verandahs . 

13 . Demands Nos . 2 and 1 . — These two demands can conveniently le consi 
dered together . At present there is a Doctor but he is not M . B . B . S . and hence 
under the demand No . 2 regarding appointment of one M . B . B . S . Doctor. the point 
has been raised as to whether the appointment of one M . B . B . S . Doctoi ontem 
plated in agrcernents valer 21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955 is in uddition 
to the existing Doctor Arlmittedly no M . B . B . S . Doctor has been appointed so 
far and hence under the clemand No . 9 the point raised is as to whether the stop 
page or increment of the present Doctor is justified in view of the agreement 
datou 6th August 1955 . 


14 . The clause 11 of the agreement dated 2157 March 1955 , Ex , U - 1 lefers inter 
nolic to the appointment of one M . B . B . S . Dortor for Colliery Hospital This was 
the demand No. 8 in the strike notice dated 18th October 1951 and the Stars 91. 5e 
11 provides thus : 
" It is agreed that a Doctor will be appointed and the management is al 

ready on the look out. The Federation should help the main goment 

to And out a suitable Doctor ." 
Again in the next ugreeinent dated 6th August 1955 . Ex . 1 - 2, clause ll on the 
appointment of M . B . B S . Dortor for Colliery Hospital provides this : 
" It is agreed that the company should make all efforts to make allangement 

for a suitable quarter and as soon as this is done should appoint an 
M . B . B . S . Doctor, With the help of the Federation , attempt vill be 
made to reshurle the occupants of the existing quarters and make 
a suitable quarter available for the Doctor . For this purpose , il 
nccessary , the management would be prepared to add one room to 
one of the junior quarters . This satisfies the Labour Federauion " 


15 . It will be seen from the relevant provisions in the said two agreements 
that they do not in terms speak of the appointment of M . B . B . S . Doctor in placo 
of the present Doctor. If it were so, there could arise no difficulty in providing 
the new Doctor with residential quarters , inagmuch as the quarters occupied by 
the existing Doctor would be made available to him with necesary alterations, 
if any . It has thereťore rightly been pointed out in the statement of laims on 
behalf of the workers that if the intention had been to substitute the existing 
Doctor who is not M . B . B . S . the question of le - shuffing of the occupants of the 
existing quarters would not arise. On bchalf of the einployers , it has been con 
tended that they agreed to appoint an M . B . B . S . Doctor only in place of the present 
Doctor who is not an M . B . B . S . one and that the Coal Mines Labour Wellare Fund 
Rules , 1949 provide for only one Doctor in a standard dispensary. Looking to 
the agreements between the parties, it is not open to the employers to full back 
upon any such rules and what under the reference I am required to do is to in 
terpret the agreements as they are 


262 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 21, 1959 / MAGHA 4 , 1880 


Part II 


16 . The employers representative argued that the agreements do not provide 
for the appointment of an additional Doctor and in tact there is nced for two 
Doctors . It was however up to the employers to see that the agreements were 
worded in proper terms and if they thought that there was no need for an addl 
monal Doctor or that the new M . B . B . S . Doctor was to be appointed in place of 
No existing Doctor, it should have been so expressly provided in the agreements . 
It may be noted that the appointment of a new Doctor in place of the existing 
Doctor means dispersing with the services of the old Doctor and in such a casc 
an express provision to that effect was absolutely necessary in the agreement 
which however does not find place there . Thus taking the two agreements as they 
are , the management is required to appoint a new M .BB. S . Doctor and the agree 
ments by themselves do not warrant or permit the discontinuance of the existing 
Doctor . If it is the plea of the employers that the two Doctors are not requircd 
it will be for them to mako out a case for retrenchment by independently eslab 
lishing that the old Doctor has become surplus on and after the appointment of 
the new M . B . B . S . Doctor , 


17. It was next urged on behalf of the employers that the reference in this 
connection is incompetent inasmuch as a Doctor is not a workman within the 
meaning of that term as defined in S . 2 ( s ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 
In the Arst place the reference has been made under $ . 10 ( 2 ) of the Act on a 
joint application of the parties and it is rather doubtful if the employers can 
now after the Government Order of reference urge that any part of it is incom 
petent. The employers themselves have produced a copy of the said joint appll 
catlon together with the copy of the statement attached thereto ( Exs . C - 8 and C - 9 ) 
and in the joint application it is stated ; 


" Whereas an industrial dispute is apprchended between the Dadabhoy New 

Chiririri Ponri Hill Colliery Company ( Private ) Ltd ., and the Chhat 
tisgarh Colllery Workers Federation , Chirimiri and it is expendient 
that the matters specified in the enclosed statement which are con 
nected with or relevant to the dispute should be referred for adjudi 
cation wy a Tribunal, an application is hereby made under section 
10 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 that the said matters should 
be referred to a Tribunal. This application is made by the under 
signed who have been duly authorised to do so . A statement giving 
the particular s required under rule 3 of the Industrial Disputes 
(Central) Rules, 1957, is attached . " 


18 . Moreover along with the defnition of term workman in $ . 2 ( S ) of the Act , 
we have to read S . 2 ( K ) wherc tho expression industrial dispute has been defined . 
In this connection reference may be made to the recent Judgment of the Supreme 
Court in the case of Assam Chah Karmachari Şangha vs. Dimakuchi Tea Estate , 
1958 I. L . L . J. 500 in which their Lordships have observed that where the workmen 
raisc a dispute as against their cmployer , the person regarding whose employ 
ment, non - employment, terms of employment or conditions of labour the dis 
pute is ralscd , need not be , strictly speaking a workman within the meaning of 
the Act but must be one in whose employment, non - employment, terms of cm 
ployment or conditions of labour the workmen as a class have a direct or subs 
tant al interest . In interpreting the expression any person in $ . 2 ( K ) of the 
Act in a dispute relating to a person who is not a workman within the meaning 
of S , 2 ( S ) of the Act their Lordships have laid down that any person in S . 2 ( K ) 
means a person in whose employment or non - employment or terms of employ 
ment or conditions oť labour the workmen us a class have a direct or substantial 
interest — with whom they have, under the scheme of the Act, a community of 
Internet . Having regard to the scheme and object of the AC and its other pro 
visions, the expression any person in S .2 ( K ) of the Act must be icad subject 
to such limitations and qualifications as arise from the context; the two crucial 
limitations are : - ( 1 ) the dispute must be a real dispute between the parties to 
the dispute ( as indicated in the first two parts of the definition ciause ) , so ag to 
be capable of settlement or adjudication by one party to the dispute giving neces 
sary relief to the other ; and ( 2 ) the person regarding whom the dispute is raised 
must be one in whose employment, non - employment, terms of employment, or 
conditions of labour (as the case may bc ) the parties to the dispute have a direct 
or substantial interest Both these conditions are satisfied in the present case 
and when the Federation representing a majority of workmen and the employers 
have jointly applied to the Government for a reference for adjudication of a dis 
pute relating inter alia to the appointment of an M . B . B . S . Doctor as well as to 
the stoppape of the increment payable to the present Doctor, it means that this 
Is a real dispute between the parties capable of settlement or adjudication by 
one party to the dispute giving necessary relief to the other and the person , 


Sec. 3 ( li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959/MAGHA 4 , 1880 

263 

- ICT 
i.e , the Doctor regarding whom the dispute is raised is one, in whose employment 
so far as the new Doctor is concerned , and in whose terms of employment and 
conditions of labour so far as the existing Doctor is concerned , the parties to the 
dispule have a direct or substantial interest. This is therefore an industrial dis 
puto regarding which it was competent to the Government to make a reference 
under S , 10 ( 2 ) or the Act on a joint application ot the parties . 

19 . In the circumstances discussed above, I hold that the agreements dated 
21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955 do not contemplate the appointment of ong 
M . B . B . S . Doctor in place of the existing Doctor nor do they warrant the discon 
tinuance of the present Doctor on the appointment of the new M . B . B . S . Doctor , 

I further hold that so long as the present Doctor continucs in employment, it is 
not open to the inanagement to stop his increment if otherwise due in normal 
course and no such act is justificd in view of the agrcement dated 6th August 1955 . 

20 . Denund No. 3 . — This deinand relates to the payment of overtime wages 
and is sub -divided into two parts , ( a ) and ( b ) . The Arst part is concerning the 
employees who were on pay -rolls of the colliery between 1st October 1950 to 21st 
March 1955 and have ceased to be employees of the colliery (both company s and 
the contractors ) for any reason whatsoever before 21st March 1955 . These are 
the employecs out of those who entered into service from 1st October 1950 to 
8th November 1954 and tho question of their eligibility to over - time payment is 
to be judged under the agreements dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955 . 
The second part (b ) of the demand is whether one individual employee named 
Chintaman Shot-frer is entitled to over - time payment under the same agreements , 
viz . dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955 , 

21. The provision regarding the payment of over - time wages starts with clause 
2 of the first agreement dated 24th January 1954 ( Ex . U - 3 ) . It is there stated : 


" Payment of overtiine to workers for overtime work done on rest days, 

holidays , and other days at one and a half times in addition to 
monthly salary in case of monthly paid workers and at one and a 
hall times in the case of weekly paid workers, with retrospective 
effect ." " The Union will give details with the help of the records of 
the company of the number of hours of overtime work including 
Sunday over - time, anil calculations and payments will be made on the 
hasis of such extra hours booked to have been worked . This will 

come into effect from 1st October , 1950 ." 
It is with reference to this that under clause 16 of the agreement dated 21st March 
1955 ( Lx . U - 1 ) , wc And the following provision under the heading " Demand No. 
2 of the Agreement dated 24th January 1954 : Payment of overtime to workers 
for work done on Sundays, holidays, rest days and other days in addition to 
normal duty hours at 11 times in addition to monthly salary in case of monthly 
paid workers and at 11 times in case of weekly paid workers" : 


" It is agreed that the payment of overtime of monthly paid staff will bo 

paid on the following basis : 
( a ) For the period from 1st October 1950 to 30th June 1952 on the basis 

of Standing Orders . 
(b ) For the period from 1st July 1952 to 24th August 1954 on the basis of 

the Mines Act , 1952. 
( C ) For the period from 24th August 1954 onwards the categories ex 

empted from Chapter VI of the Mines Act, 1952 will be governed 
by the Standing Orders and the other catogories by the Mines Act . 
1952 . The period of Sunday and / or holiday work in casc 
monthly paid employees will be ascertained on the basis of total 
number of days shown in the Pay Shcets less working days, leave, 

sick , off and absent as shown in the Pay Sheets . 
( d ) If any (OTF ) against the Sunday work or overtime work is already 

ayailed and shown in the monthly Pay - sheets by ( O ) or (OFF ) It 
will be deducted from the total period of overtime due and the 

balance wlll he paid for. 
( e ) Every Sunday attendance and the attendance on a holiday will be 

counted as ( 4 hours ) for calculating the amount of overtime. 
( f ) The payment of overtime will consist of basic rate of salary , dear 

ness allowance , bonus and grain allowance ( grain allowance from 
Ist July 1952 only )), 


-264 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 , MAGHA 4, 1880 


[PART II 


( g ) As for weekly paid employees grain allowance for the overtime period 

of work should be paid for the period from 1st July 1952 onwards at 

overtime rate . 
( h ) For the period prior to 1st July , 1952 if any worker has put in . 9 hours 

work in a day or 54 hours in a week instead of 8 hours in a day and 
48 hours in a week of six days, he will be paid at the overtime rate 

for the 50 per cent extra hours of work put in ." 
22 . The next agreement in this connection dated 6th August 1955 (Ex . U - 2 ) pro 
vides as follows under the clause 16 with the heading " Payment of overtime to 

workers for work done on Sundays , holidays , rest days and other days in addition 
to normal duty hours at 11 times in addition to monthly salary in case of monthly 
ipaid workers and at 11 times in case of weekly paid workers” : 

( i ) Agreement dated 21st March , 1955 relating to this item has been com 

pletely implemented in case of all monthly paid workers paid cirectly 

by the Company . 
( ii ) It is now agreed that in case of monthly paid workers exempted cader 

S . R . O . 2804 , dated 24th August, 1954 and who are marked P in the 
pay - sheet for Sunday work for the period from 25th August , 1954 to 
31st March , 1955 , a further payment equal to one fourth day s wages 
( Basic plus dearness allowance ) will be made for Sunday attendance 

during this period as per sub - clause ( e ) under this item . 
( iii ) Pay - sheets under clause ( h ) of this item of agreement dated 21st March 

1955 , for workers directly paid by the company , are under checking 
and will be offered for payment as early as possible . This refers to 

weekly paid workers only who alone are entitled under this clause . 
( iv ) It is also agreed that such weekly paid chowkidars and sweepers , 

exempted under S . R . O . 2804 , dated 24th August, 1954 , as are marked 
* P in the pay - sheet for Sunday work during the period 25th Jugust, 
1954 to 31st March , 1955 will be given a further payment equal to 
one- fourth day s (basic plus D . A . ) wages for Sunday attendance during 

this period . 
( v ) As regards inclusion of the grain allowance in the wages for payment 

of overtime as per Mines Act, as a difference of opinion about the 
interpretation of this point has arisen between the Management and 
the Federation , it is agreed that the matter be referred the 
Management to the Chief Inspector of Mines for his clarification On 
receiving this clarification , if it is favourable to the workers, the 
Management agrees to pay to them for grain allowance for overtime 
accordingly for the current period and as well as for the period com 
mencing from 4th October 1953. If the clarification is otherwise , then 
the Federation will have no claim in this respect. 


. ( vi) Payments of overtime both to the monthly paid and weekly paid 

workers of the Raising Contractors will be made on the same basis 
as have been and are being made to the workers directly paid by 
the company under clause ( a ) to ( h ) of item 16 of the Agreement, 
dated 21st March 1955 and also as agreed above. 


( vii ) The payment of overtime to the workers who are exempted from 

Chapter 6 of the Mines Act, 1952 , and who are marked P for Sunday 
work in the pay - sheets will be made according to the Standing Orders 
for Sunday work from 1st April, 1955 onwards till the standing orders 
are modified in this respect . This agreement will not be citer as a 

precedent after such modification , 
The Federation is fully satisfied with the mode of preparation of pay - zheets 

prepared in respect of overtime payment for Sunday work etc . 
After the payments now agreed under clauses ( ii ) to (vi) above are made , 

the Federation will have no further claim in these respects upto 31st 

March , 1955 ." 
23 . Taking up first the question of overtime payment under the part la ) of 
this demand , the case on behalf of the workers in the statement of claim is that 
the Colliery was under the control and management of the Government of India 
for a period of five years prior to 1st October 1950 and the present emplovers 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Sic . 91) THE GVITIE OLIVUILTIVUARY 1, 1979 /MAGII I, 1880 265 
-- - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - 
aysunied management with effect from 1st October 1950 . During its charge the 
Government had brought some of its employees from other collieries to this 
colliery for purposes of better and clficient working and besides, an extra stuff 
was also recruited . When the present management assumed charge, the Govern 
ment - taff was re - transferred and a large number of enployecs were retrenched 
between 1st October 1950 and 21- March , 1955 or some of the left the colliery 
for othcr rcasons. All the same, such of these employees who earned overtime/ 
payment during their cmployment in the Colliery within the stipulated period 
were entitled to get it, whether they were in the employment of the colliery on 
the date ot the agreement, i. e . on 21st March 1955 or not. Nowhere in any of the 
agreements these employees have been cxcluded and hence those who were on 
payrolls of the colliery between Ist October 1950 to 21st March 1955 and have 
ceased to be employees ( both company s and contractors ) for any reason whatso 
over before 21st March 1955 , are c-ligible to overtime payment under the agrec 
ments , dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955 . Thus the claim for overtime 
payment under this part of the demand refers to certain cx - employces alleger 
To have worked overtime during their employment but have ccased to be the 
employees for one rcason or the other on the dates when the agreements in 
question were made, namely 21st March , 1955 and 6th August 1955 . The managr 
ment however by its written statement contends that the agreement, dated 21st 
NIarch 1955 benefits only those workmen who were in the employment of the 
company on that date , namely 21st March 1955 . According to the management 
thercforc, those employed betwecn the period from 1st October 1950 to 8th Novem 
ber 1954 and who ceased to be employees of the colliery before 21st March 1955 
are not entitled to claim the payment of overtime wages, as on the date of the 
agreement they were not in the service of the company. The management alleges 
that they were ncither parties to the strike notice nor to the agreement arrived 
at on 21st March 1955 and lience the Federation has no locus standi to represent 
them , 


24 . As said above , the dispute between the partics first started with the strike 
notice dated 11th January 1954 . The deniand No. 2 in the said strike notice 
related to payment of overtime to workers for overtime work done on rest days , 
holidays and other days at 1 time in addition to monthly salary in case of monthly 
paid workers and 1 .; times in the case of weekly paid workers , with retrospective 
effect . It was with respect to this demand that in the subsequent agreement 
dated 24th January 1954 the above - said arrangement was made, namely that the 
Union will give details with the help of the records of the company of the number 
of hours of overtime work including Sunday overtime, and calculations and pay 
ments will be made on the basis of such extra hours booked to have been worked 
and this was to come into effect from 1st October 1950. The second strike notice 
given thereafter is dated 18th October 1954 and there onc of the reasons given 
for the strike was non - implementation of the said agrcement dated 24th January , 
1954 between the management and the workmen , The parties then arrived at 
the agreement dated 8th November 1954 and thereunder item No . 1 ( c ) we And 
the following provision regarding the payment of overtime with l etrospective 
effect . 
" As regards this , there was disagreement as to the record from which the 

overtime should be calculated . It is now agreed that the overtime 
payment should be calculated on the basis of the entries in the pay 
sheets. For the purpose of overtime payment it is agreed that four 
hours extra will be taken as overtime work and the payment will be 
made accordingly . This payment of overtime will be made from 1st 
October 1950 at one and half times normal basic plus dearness 
allowance to monthly paid employees in addition to monthly salary 
and one and half t mes normal basic plus dearness allowance to 

weekly paid employees . 
After 1st July 1952 overtime will be paid to employees working on surface 

or underground as per Mines Act, 1952 . 
Payment will be made before the end of the 1st week of December 1954 " 
Then followed the two agreements dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955 , the 
relevant provisions whereof in respect of overtime work have been quoted above. 

25 . It will be seen from the agreements as they are that beyond giving the date 
for retrospective effect and the mode of payment during the different periods, 
it is nowhere laid down in any express terms as to who are the employecs covered 
under these agreements. Shri Malviya at the time of the hearing pointed out 
that the claim under this demand is confined only to those workers (both com 
pany s and contractors ) who were not paid overtime though entitled and these 


266 THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : JANUARY 24 , 1959/MAGHA 4 , 1880 [Part II 

- ar - - - - - - 
are the workers who entered into service from 1st October 1950 to 8th November 
1954 and left the same before 21st March 1955 for one rcaşon or the other . 
According to him , the period of payment in their case will be from the date of 
joining till the date on which they left, i.e . not earlier than 1st October 1959 
and not later than 21st March 1955 . He argued that the agreements are not 
restricted to any particular workcrs entitled to overtime payment and hence all 
including these cx - employees are covered . Shri Bobde on uchalf of the employers 
on the other hand strenuously urged that the two agreements in question do not 
cover the employees who ceased to be as such prior to 21st March 1955 and at 
the time of the strike notice or of the subscquent agrcements, the Union is not 
supposed to represent or to act for the cinployees who had already left and had 
ceased to be as such . He added that the dispute was never raised in terms with 
regard to the ex - cmployees and that the payment as agreed in respect of the 
workers on roll on 21st March 1955 had already been made . He pointed out that 
with regard to the ex - cmployees it would be a question of arrears and in thcir 
case there cannot be anything like retrospective effect as such . The provision 
under the agreements is made with respect to those who were then in cmployment 
and ho had to be paid at a certain rate with respective effect from a certain 
date namely 1st October 1950 . He argued that when all the agreements have 
been made in pursuance of the strike notices , it is improbable that the Union 
would omit to include ex - employees with an express claim to past arrcars on their 
behalf if really it i. e . the Union thought of advancing any such claim . 

26 Looking to the history of the dispute and the documents referred to above , 
we do not find at any time any specific claim for arrears of overtime payment 
expressly made in respect of these ex - employees. It is true that the two agree 
ments include all the employees ( both company s and contractors ) and lay down 
certain mode or rates of payment of overtime wages for different periods with 
effect from 1st October 1950 but at the same time if the claim of ex - employees 
for non -payment of arrears was meant to be advanced and covered under these 
agreements , it should have been so specifically provided for, Ordinarily talsing 
the agreements as they are , only those in the employment of the company then 
would bc cntitled to the benefit thereof with the retrospective effect from the 
date there laid down . This does not mean that the ex - employees are not entitled 
to claim their arrears of overtime payment, if any , if they are otherwise cligible 
Lo the same but for that purpose they would have to seek such other independent 
remcdy as may be open under law . And the agreements being silent on the 
point, they are in no way debarred from doing so. What I am called upon to 
decide under this part of the demand is whether these ex - employecs arc cligible 
to overtime payment under the agreements dated 21st March 1965 and 6th August 
2955 , and I have to answer in the negative as taking the agreements as they are 
these cx - employecs are not there expressly or impliedly covered . I hold 
accordingly . 


27 . The next part of the demand is with respect to the individual worker 
Chintaman Shot - firer who was in employment in the capacity of a shot - firer, since 
before 1st October 1950. In the statement of claim it is alleged that he was 
suspended on 29th September 1954 for committing an act of misconduct, but 
ultimately the suspension was found unjustified and he was therefore reinstated 
without back wages . This however does not mean that he should not get the 
overtime payment which he earned during his employment. Shri Malylya stated 
that this worker was reinstated in June 1955 at which time only the back wages 
from the date of suspension up to the date of reinstatement were given up but 
his claim for overtime payment during the period 1st October 1950 to 29th 
September 1954 remains unaffected . In the written statement filed by the 
employers , it is contended that he was under suspension on the date of the agree 
ment, i. e . on 21st March 1955 . He was thus not an employee of the company on 
that date and he is therefore not entitled to the bencfit of overtime wages as per 
the agreements dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955 . At the time of the 
hearing Shri Bobde on behalf of the employers alleged that this worker was 
subsequently re- employed in June 1955 and not reinstated. 


28 . In my opinion the stand taken by the employers in this connection is 
unjustiflable . Whatever may be the charge against this worker, he was merely 
suspended pending enquiry and in the strike notice dated 18th October 1954 under 
the item No. 7, the dispute was raised inter alia regarding his wrongful suspension 
Under the agreement dated 21st March 1955 the clause No . 7 ( c ) relates to him 
and it is there agreed that : - - 


" if he returns to the collicry within a month from the date he will be given 

his original job , No question of any claim arises." 


- 


- 


= = 


S C. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959/MAGHIA 4 , 1880 267 

- - - - 
It is not there stated that he was to be re - employed as a fresh employee and what 
has been agreed is to give him his original job . During the period of suspension 
the employer - employee relation does subsist and the point regarding a suspended 
worker is made clear in Master and Servant - Barwell & Kar, by quoting at 
page 328 the following observations of Cotton L . J . in Boston Deep Sea fishing 
and Ice Company V . Anscll, 39 ch . D . 339 C . A : 
" Suspension is very diffcrent from dismissal. . . . . . when a man is suspended 

from the office he holds, it is merely a direction that so long as he 
holds the office , and until he is legally dismissed , he must not do 

anything in the discharge of the duties of the office ," 
If therefore this workcr had during the relevant period earned any overtime 
payment, there is no reason why he should not get the benefit of the agreements 
in question . It is true that in the said clause 7 ( c ) it is mentioned that no question 
of any claim arises but this does not mean , in the absence of any express pro 
vision to that offect, that the claim for overtime was also given up . Under the 
agreement a worker who was wrongfully suspeliaed was to be put back on his 
original job and what seems to have been given up is the payment of wages for 
the period of suspension . I therefore hold that Shri Chintaman , Shot - firer is 
entitlcd to overtime payment undcr the agreements dated 21st March 1955 and 
6th August 1955 , if otherwise due to him . 

29 . Demand No. 4 . — This demand relates to increase of 124 per cent on the 
basic wages and is sub -divided in parts ( a ) to ( d ) The weekly paid employees 
have already been given 124 per cent increase on basic wages from 7th August 
1955 and under the sub - part ( a ) the claim raised is whether they are eligible for 
arrear of payment of such increasc under the agreements dated 21st March 1955 
and 6th August 1955 for the period of their service from 1st October 1950 or the 
dates of their respective appointments to 6th August 1955 . The sub - part (b ) 
concerns monthly paid employees who were on pay - rolls of the company Ol 
raising contractors between 1st October 1950 to 8th November 1954 but have 
ceased to be employees prior to 21st March 1955 and the point raised is whether 
they are cligible for arrcar payment of 12 per cent increase in basic wages under 
thc agreements dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955 . A similar claim is 
maade for shot -frers under the sub -part ( c ) by raising the point whether they 
are eligible for 125 per cent increase in basic wages under agreements dated 21st 
March 1955 and 6th August 1955 for the period from 1st October 1950 or dates of 
their respective appointments . The sub - part ( d ) concerns the colliery s office 
staff at Nagpur and the point raised is whether the agreements dated 21st March 
1955 and 6th August 1955 regarding 12 per cent increase in basic wages are 
applicable to this office staff. 

30 . The 12 per cent increase referred to above is payable under what is 
popularly known as Korea Award (vide the copy Ex . Cil) . Under clause 1 
thereof certain minimum basic rates of wages have been prescribed for certain 
categories of workers there specified . The clause 2 with which we are now 
concerned provides that : 
" Any class of employees not entitled for any increase in wages under the 

provisions given above may be granted an increase of 124 per cent in 

their basic pay 
and under Clause 11 this order is directed to apply retrospectively with effect 
from 1st November , 1947. The point regarding this 125 per cent increase was 
first raised in the strike notice dated 11th January 1954 under the following terms 
viz . : – 
" Non - implementation of the Korea Award in respect of increment of 12. 

per cent in the basic wages of the workers with retrospective effect" 
and at the time of the subsequent agreement dated 24th January 1954 the clause 3 
1hercof provided thus : 
" Non -implementation of Korea Award in respect of increment of 127 per 

cent to the workers with retrospective effect : 
According to the employers the claim refers to a period when the colliery 

was in charge of Government and not of the present company . The 
company recruited its men at certain salaries on the 1st of October 

1950 and therefore the award does not apply to the Company. 
The Federation suggested that these workers who are in continuous employ 

ment of or were in the employment at the time of the application of 
Korea Award were entitled to 124 per cent increment with retros 
pective effect. 


268 


I ILE GAZETTE OF INDJI : TINUIRY 2 1979 /MAGHA 4 . 1880 [PARI IT 
- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - 
The matter will he got clarified from Government." 
Again u the second strike notice dated 18th October 1954 the dispute was raised 
regarding the non - implementution of the Korea Award in respect of payment of 
increment of 121 per cent in the basic wages of the workers and the subsequent 
agrecment dated 6th November 1954 under the item No 4 (Ex . C5 ) stood thus : 
" It is agreed that the claim of the workers for 12 per cent increase in the 

hasic wages as per Korea Award , with effect from 1st November 1947 
should be cxamined by the Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central ) 
Nagpur, and his recommendations communicated to the part es, who 
hereby agree to accept the same, to be effective from such date on or 
after 1st October 1950 as he may recommend . As regards the date 
froin which the increase of 12 ) per cent has to be given by the 
contractors to their stall the same will be recommended by the 
Regional Labour Commissioner ( 0 ) , Nagpur which may be cffective 

from or after 1st November 1947." 
31. This brings us to the two agreements dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 
1955 referred to in the present demand . The agreement dated 21st March , 1955 
under its clause 17 lays down : 
" Demand No . 3 of the Agreement dated 24th January 1954 : Non - imple 

mentation of the Korca Award in respect of increment of 12 ; per 

cent in the basic wages of the workers with retrospective effect : 
It is agreed that the workers who were on the pay - rolls of the company 

on 1st October 1950 will be given an increase of 12 per cent in the 

basic wages prevailing on 1st October , 1950, 
Those workers , who came after Ist October 1950 to the date of agreement, 

he 8th November 1954 will be given the increment of 124 per cont. 

in their basic wages prevailing on the date of their joining. 
The Federation also agree to forego one third of the total amounts thus 

payable to the workers . 
The above provision will not be applicable to those workers whose wages 

have been fixed by the Korea Award." 
Then the clauso 17 of the agreement, dated 6th August 1955 provides thus : 

" Non - impleinentation of the Korea Award in respect of an increment of 
i 12 . per cent. in the basic wages of the workers with retrospective 

cffect : 
It is now agreed that any increments given from time to time either as 

increments in the same post or increments by promotion to higher 
post will not be adjusted by the management in case of monthly paid 
staff against 12 per cent increase in the initial basic salary and the 
maximum of grades given to certain individuals at present may ulti 
mately exceed by 123 per cent of the initial salary of that individual s 

grade , 
Bonus on those arrears is to be calculated and paid subject to the deduction 

of 1 / 3rd from the tolal amount payable as already agreed by the 

Federation as per agreement dated 21st March , 1955 . 
The Federation claims that the time-rated weekly paid workers who are 

not covered by Item 1 of the Korea Award and have not received the 
increase of 123 per cent as per item 2 of the Korea Award are also 
cligible for 127 per cent increase in their initial basic wage as they are 
covered by the agreement dated 21st March 1955, but this will 
obviously not apply to the person joining after 8th November 1954 as 

per agreement dated 21st March , 1955 . 
The management contends that question of 12 per cent increase on the 

initial basic wages of time rated weekly paid persons does not arise 
under Korea Award nor was it agreed in the agreement dated 21st 

March , 1955. 
However, it is now agreed that an increment in the basic wages at 12 per 

cent on the initial basic rates of time rated wcekly paid persons whore 
ratey are not fixed by Korea Award , that is to say of such persons who 
are entitled for an increase under item 2 of the Korea Award reading 
" Any class of employees not entitled for any increase in wages under 
the provisions given above may be granted an increase of 127 per cent 


$ ma . 1 (i ) ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959/MAGHA 4 , 1880 


2 69 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


in their basic pay" will be granted to such workers appointed upto 
8th November 1954 with effect from the week commencing from the 
7th August , 1955 , without prejudicing the above said contention of 
the management. As regards the Federation s contention for 12 per 
cent increase on the initial basic wages of such workers appointed 
upto 8th November 1954 with retrospective effect, that is to say from 
the date of joining , the point is referred to Sir Pheroze Khuregat who 
is in England at present by Mr. P . J . Registrar and if Sir Kharegat 
agrees, payment of arrears will be made on the same basis as in case 
of monthly paid workers. In case Sir Kharegat does not agree to 
the payment of arrears the increment of 12 ; per cent granted as 
above from 7th August 1955 will not prejudice Sir Pheroze Kharegat s 
contentions regarding arrears and the Federation is then free to 
upproach the Ministry of Labour, Government of India , New Delhi, 
for further necessary action , Ilowever, during the period his matter 
is not finally settled , the Federation assures to give ful] 10 -operation 
to the Management to maintain the normal production and despatches 
of coal. 


The payment by Raising Contractors for their monthly as well as time 

rated weekly paid workers will also be made on the same lines as 
that of the workers directly paid by the Company . After the above 
said payments are made there will remain no further claim of 

workers regarding this demand ." 
32. Taking up first the question of weekly paid employees under the part 
( a ) of this demand, it appling to those weekly paid employees who havr already 
been paid 131 per cent increase on basic wages from 7th August, 1955 . The 
question arising for our consideiation is whether they are cligible to arreur pay 
ment of such increase for the period prior to the said date 7th August 1955, z.e . . 
for the period of their service from 1st October 1950 or the respective dates of 
their appointments upto 6th August 1955 In the statenint of claims it is alleged 
that the basis for the grantus of increase of 12 ) per cint in the basic wages of 
these employces was an award duted 30th January 1954 in reference No 11 of 
1950 between the management of Chirimiri Collicry and their workmen , where 
the said increase of 12 per cent was granted retrospectively from 1st November , 
1947. It is there further alleged that subsequently in a similar dispute betweeli 
the Jhagiakhand Collieries , Ltd and their workmen , by an award rated 14111 
February 1957 in reference No . 11 of 1955 the arrears of wages have been granted 
with retrospective cffect. This award has been confirmed by the Appellate 
Tribunal in appea ) No 139 of 1956 hy its decision dated 13th May 1958 . Thus the 
employees of the colliorics covered by para . 2 of the Korea Award are entitled to 
an increase of 12 per cent with retrospective licct from 1st November 1947 or 
thereafter from the date of their respective appointments up to 26th May 1956 , 
i. e , where the award of the All India Industrial Tribunal ( Colliery Disputes ) came 
into force. After referring to the relevant provisions of the two agreements 
dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955 , it is donied in the statement of claims 
that the Federation agreed to accept the increase of 12 per cent only with effect 
from 7th August 1955 and gave up the claim of past arrears payable with 
retrospective effect from 1st October 1950 or the date of the respective appoint 
ments of the workers concerned . 


33 . It is an undisputed fact that this payment of 121 per cent increase in basic 
wages is to be made under the Korca Award and at the time of the hearing it was 
conceded on behalf of the employers that they are not challenging the Korea 
Award which has always applied to their colliery . What they allege is that they 
have been paying what their predecessors did and 12 per cent inci casc or 
equivalent thereof was already given so that there arose no question of any 
arrears at any time. They have produced a copy of the letter dated 25th August, 
1954 ( Ex . C - 13 ) received from the Chief Mining Inspector regarding implementa 
tion of Korea Award in New Chirimiri Ponri Hill Colliery and in the letter it is 
stated : 
" In continuation of this office letter of even No. dated 12th July 1954 it may 

be stated that the Korca Award was implemented in l espect of work 
men (daily rated and piece - rated ) while Ponri, Hill Colliery was 

under Government management." 
In the Arst place if everything concerning the implementation of Korca Award 
was already done during the Government management, where was the necessity 
or occasion for the parties to enter into any agreement in this connection . More 
over in the Government letter there is no reference to weekly paid or monthly 
paid employees. 


270 TIE GAZE ITE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 PART 1 

--- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
34. In the present reference we have to examine the claim in the light of the 
agreements between the parties . In the demand no claim is made with respect 
to the period prior to 1st October 1950 when the Government was in charge of 
the Coliery . Admittedly the present employer s assurned management from 1st 
October 1950 and what we are concerned with is the period coinrencing from 
that date or the dates of the respective appointments of the workers concerned . 
Admittedly the weekly paid employees have been paid 12 per cent incrcase from 
7th August 1955 and the question now is with respect to the payment of such 
increase for the period of their service from 1st October 1950 or the respective 
dates of their appointments upto 6th August 1955 . In the agreeniunt dated 21st 
March 1955 it has been stipulated that the worker s who were on the poy -roll of the 
company on 1st October 1950 will be given an increase of 13 per cent in the basic 
wages prevailing on 1st October 1950 . It is there further provided that those 
who came after 1st October 1950 to the date of agreement i.e . 8th November, 1954 
will be given the increase of 124 per cent in their basic wagęs prevailing on the 
date of their joining . Then at the time of the next agreement dated 6th August 
1955 , the Federation claimed that the time rated weekly paid workers who are 
not covered by item 1 of the Korea Award and have not received the increase of 
121 per cent as per item 2 of the Korca Award are also eligible to the increase in 
the initial basic wages as they are covered by agreement dated 2157 March 1955 , 
but this will obviously not apply to the persons joining after 8th November , 1954 
as per agreement dated 21st March 1955 . Thus the claim was then confined to 
those in service on Ist October 1950 and also those who joined between 1st 
October 1950 and 8th November 1954 . The management then contended that the 
benefit of 121 per cent increase under the Korea Award did not apply to the time 
rated weekly paid workers but at the same time without prejudice to its contention 
it was agreed that the said increase of 12 per cent payuble under the item 2 of 
the Korea Award will be granted to such workers appointed upto 8th November 
1954 with effect from the weck commencing from 7th August 1955 . Thus the 
payment has been made accordingly from 7th August, 1955 and as regards the 
previous arrears , the dispute was to be referred to Sir Pheroza Kharegat who 
if decided against such demand , then the Federation was free to approach the 
Government for necessary action . Thus the claim for Arrears has not been given 
up and I hold that under the agreements those on the pay roll of the company on 
1st October 1950 as well as those engaged between ist October 1950 to 8th 
November , 1954 are entitled to arrear payment of such increase for the period of 
their service upto 6th August 1955 

35 Coming next to sub -part ( b ) of this demand relating to monthly paid 
employees , we are concerned with those who were on the pay - rolls of the com 
pany or Raising Contractors between 1st October 1950 to 8th November 1954 but 
have ceased to be employees prior to 21st March 1955 and the point is whether 
they are eligible for arrear payment of 125 per cent increase in basic wages under 
the two agreements , dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955 . Here also 
under the agreement dated 21st March 1955 , the aforesaid provision would be 
Applicable to the workers who were on the pay - roll of the company on 1st 
October 1950 as well as to those workers who came during the period 1st October 
1950 to 8th November 1954. At the time of the second agreement, dated 6th 
· August 1955 also , the Federation as said above raised the contention for 12 , per 
cent increase on the initial basic wages of such workers appointed upto 8th 
November 1964 with retrospective effect. The dispute was to be referred to 
Shri Pheroze Kharegat and if he held against the payment of arrears, then it was 
open to the Federation to move the Government for necessary action . There is 
nothing in the agrecments to exclude the monthly paid workers and the provision 
there made would generally apply to all workers who were on the pay - roll of 
the company on 1st October 1950 or those who joined between 1st October 1950 
and 8th November 1954, But under this part of the demand the claim is advanced 
with respect to ex - employecs i. e . those who have ceased to be employees prior 
to 21st March 1955 and this presents the real difficulty . For the reasons stated 
above in connection with the overtime wages, they cannot get the beneft of the 
agreement made at the time when they were no longer in employment. I am 
now to decide the point under reference according to the agrcements and in the 
absence of any specific provision there for payment to such workers , the agree 
ments cannot in my opinion help them in establishing their eligibility if any . 


36 . As regards the shot- firere under sub - part ( c ) of this demand , they are 
cligible like other workers to 124 per cent increase in basic wages from 1st 
October 1950 or the respective dates of their appointments upto 8th November 
1954 under the two agreements . In the employers written statement it has been 
contended that the shot- firers were in the category oť daily - rated weekly paid 
employees when the Korea Award came in force and in the time of the previous 


Sec . 3 (it) THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 

271 

- - - - - - -- - - 
management they have already been paid as per the award as indicated in the 
aforesaid letter dated 25th August 1954 ( cf. Ex C - 13 ) . We are, however under 
the demand concerned with the period from 1st October 1950 when the present 
employers assumed management and they alleged in the written statement that 
on and from 1st October 1950 shot- firers have been appointed on a monthly basis . 
Shri Malviya however, rightly pointed out that if these workers were not 
allowed the increase of 12 . per cent from the date of their appointments , they can 
claim the same as Korea Award is clear on the point. I do not think that the 
management can deny the benefit of 12 per cent increase to these workers on 
any such ground as alleged and I hold that they are covered under the two 
agreements as said above for the period from 1st October 1950 to 8th November. 
1954 . 

37 As regards the office staff concerned in sub - part ( d ) of this demand . it is 
Alleged on behalf of the employers that this office staff came into existence some 
time in October 1950 when the present management took over the charge of the 
colliery from the Government of India and that this staff is governed by Shops 
and Establishment Act of the State Government. Shri Malviya argued that the 
present proprietors have got only this colliery and their office is at Nagpur 
because they are residents of Nagpur. He pointed out that there are instances 
whrile the office staff has been transferred to the colliery and vice versa and these 
employees are also engaged in connection with the working of the colliery and 
as such are employees of the colliery . There is no reason thcrefore why they 
should be debarred from the bencfit of the 121 per cent increase like other 
workers from 1st October 1950 . The employers representative at the time of 
the hearing could not deny the fact that the staff is transferable from Head Office 
to the colliery and vice versa but according to him this is being done only on rare 
occasions. Whatever it may be, when the office staff is interchangpable , it stands 
on the same footing as other workers and is entitled to receive the same treatment 
in the matter of wages and other service conditions. I therefore hold that under 
the two agreements the collicry s office staff at Nagpur is also entitled to 121 
per cent increase in basic wages . 


38. Demand No , 5 . — The point raised under this demand is whether Brijlal, 
Car Driver and Shri A . K . Sirkar , Electric Chargeman are entitled to overtime 
payment under the agreements dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 1955 . In 
the statement of claims it is alleged that both of them are the employees of the 
company like other workers and they are entitled to the benefit of the two 
agreements for overtime payment. The joint application of the parties for the 
present reference is dated 6th November 1957 and we find from Ex . C - 14 dated 
5th November 1957 that just on the previous day one of these workers , Shri A . K . 
Sirkar was paid all his dues in respect of overtime payment and he has passed a 
receipt for the purpose. As regards the other worker Shri Brulal, Car driver , 
it appears from Ex . C - 15 read with Ex . C - 17 that he was offered payment of the 
sum due but he declined to accept the same. He should therefore better be 
advised to accept the amount due to him . If the amount offered according to 
him , is inadequate , he may take such steps as may be open . So far as the present 
demand is concerned , what has to be decided is whether they are entitled to over 
time payment under the two agreements dated 21st March 1955 and 6th August 
1955 and my answer is in the affirmative in view of the fact that so far as the 
eligibility is concerned there is no dispute between the parties . 

39. Demand No, 6 . — This demand refers to the lighting arrangements in the 
labour quarters as contemplated under the agreements dated 21st March 1955 
and 6th August 1955 . The clause No. 3 of the agreement dated 21st March 1955 
provides for street lighting thus : 
" Street lighting in Bhaiya Dafai will be completed by the end of this year 

and efforts will be made to complete the lighting in the labour 
colonies Lighting in thirty six artisan quarters in Bhaisa Datai will 
also , be completed . Orders for the required transformer and 
necessary materials will be placed under intimation to the Regional 

Labour Commissioner ( C ) , Nagpur," 
Then in the agreement dated 6th August 1955 , the Item No. 3 with respect to 
supply of light to the workers at their quarters and adequate arrangement for 
Tighting the streets and the labour colony , lays down : 


The company has got a transformer and quotations for the necessary and 

requisite parts of the transformer have been invited and quotation 
for the 3 - pole switch has been received and we are ascertaining 
whether this will be suitable . Quotations from the other Arms are 


272 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGIIA 1, 1880 


[PART IT 


. 


- - 


- 


still awaited Information regarding further development will be 
conveyed to the Federation from time to time. Street lighting and 
electrification of the artisan quarters in Bhaisa Dalai will be com 
plcted by the end of this year provided the material is received in 
time, subject to no objection from the Explosives Department. 
Efforts will be made to complete lighting of other defais . This satis 

fies the Labour Federation . 
40 . In the statement of claims it is alleged that these agreements contemplate : 
( 1 ) Street lighting in Bhaisa Dafai by the end of the year 1955 ; ( 2 ) Completion 
of lighting in the labour quarters and roads, in all Dafais , hy the end of the yent 
1955 ; and ( 3 ) lighting in thirty - six artisan quarters in Bhansa Dalai by the end of 
1955 . It is there further alleged that this was the lighting programme agreed to 
for the year 1955 and the workmcn expected that by the end of the vear 1958 
every nook and corner of the colliery would have been fully electrified through a 
planned programme. But this has not been done. They can therefore reasonably 
expert that the agreements above referred to will be executed at least by the 
end of the year 1958. The cmployers on the other hand in their written state 
ment say that as agreed the street lighting and electrification of the artisan quarters 
in Bhaisa Dafai has already been completed and that the interpretation 110W 
advanced by the Federation was never contemplated under the two agrements . 
Shri Malvlya pointed out that the lighting arrangements are made only in Bhaisa 
colony where the Artisans are residing but it is not so done in 17e labour colony , 
On behalf of the management, it has been alleged that in the Talicur colony street 
light is there and for lights in rooms they never agreed . It was in the case of 
artisan colony that they agreed for both and have done accordingler Shri Malviva 
denied that there is complete street lighting even in the labour colony and urged 
that in the labour colony which covers an irea of about 4 to ſ furlongs, there 
should be a lamp post for every 200 feet distance and 11at the hour would be 
satisfied if one point is given per two Blocks The employers representative could 
not enlighten us as to what the cxisting arrangement is regarding street lighting 
nr how many lights are therc, though he stated that the management is prepared 
to add 40 lights subject to availability of poway and other technical considerntions, 

41. So far as the present reference is concerned , the question before us on the 
point of lighting arrangements in labour quarters has to be judged from the two 
ilgreements as they ale In the first in recment dated 21st March 1955 in providing 
for stripit lighting under the itrni No 3 It has heen laid down inter alia that street 
Jiehting in Bhaiya Dalai will be completed by the end of this vcari. c 1955 and 
cfforts will be made to complete the lighting in the labour colonies. Then the 
item No 3 in the second agreement dated 6th August 1955 is not confined merely 
to strect lighting hut it refers to supply of light to thr worher their quarters 
and adequate arrangement for lighting the streets and the labour Colony It is 
there stated inter alia that strret lighting and electrification of 1h Artisan quarters 
in Bhaisa Dafai will be completed by the end of this vra ( . 1955 , provided the 
material is received in time, and that efforts will he made to ramulcte lighting 
of other dafais . The management therefore under the two agreements is supposed 
to make necessary arrangements for street lighting in the labour colony as well 
As for lights in the labour quarters . Though the extent of the rangement in 
this connection is not stated in specific terms or details , ordinarily it is understood 
that the lighting arrangement should be such as to satisfy any reasonable man 
in its cxtent and adequacy The management may theirfore provide for Street 
lighting and lights in the labour quarters as now suggesto ! Los Shri Malviva or 
after an inspection on the spot the parties may jointly I ride ipon a refinite 
programme both with respect to the time limit and the extent of the lighting 
arrangements . I hold accordingly . 

42. Demand No. 7 .- - This demand is with respect to the recommendations of the 
Enquiry Committee submitted on 121h February 1 ! 55 and referred in against item 
No 5 of the agreement dated 21st March 1955 and the point raised is how these 
recommendations are to be followed . The said item No 5 with respect to the 
implementation of agreement with regard to seniority states : 
" It is agreed that recommendation of the Enquiry Committras as submitted 

on 12th February 1955 will he looked into and implemented 

accordingly . 
Ex C .19 is an extract of the findings of the Enguiry Committee and there before 
dealing with certain individual cases , the Committee lias made the following 
observations on the point of seniority : 
" During the course of investigation into the cases where senjority has been 

overlooked while giving promotions or (making ) fresh appointments , 
the committee found the cases of the following workers as genuine 


Sec . 3 ( 11 ) ] 


THE CA / ETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1989 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


LE 


and the Committee feels that the management should give due con 
sideration in giving them a litt in their posts now in consideration 

of their seniority and efficiency ." 
Then the individual cases referred to are of Shri J. C . George, Shri U . N . Sarkar , 
Shri S . R . Chakravarti, Shri Mishrilal and Shri A . C . Naha Ray . Then the Com 
mittee further goes on to say that similarly the seniority of the followiny workers 
has been over - looked by the management in giving promotions and (making ) fresh 
appointments on posts carrying higher salary : 
( 1 ) Shri D . A . Bhide, ( 2 ) Shri B . W . Nath . ( 3 ) Shri Sudhir Mukherjee, ( 4 ) 

Shri Vitthal. Blacksmith , ( 5 ) Shri B . B . Sinha and some of the mining 
sardars . It appears from the observations made and the individual 
cases discussed that in the committee s view with equal merit, the 
seniority should count in giving preference for promotions or fresh 

appointments. 
43 . In the statement of claims it is alleged that the report of the said Inquiry 
Committee submitted on 12th February , 1955 deals with ( 1 ) overlooking of 
keniority and promotions, ( 2 ) payment of layott to workers and ( 3 ) Consideration 
in the wages of Shri R . K . Patnayak , Astt. Despatch Clerk and Shri Badri Prasad , 
coal-cutting machine fitter and boiler workers etc . In the written statement fled 
on behalf of the employers it is contended that the cases as pointed out by the 
Inquiry Committee in relation to the alleged overlooking of seniority have been 
already disposed of and this item under reference refers only to the overlooking 
of the seniority of the employees and not to the other items raised by the Federa 
tion . In the written statement it is further contended that though it is not open 
to the Federation to raisc the said new matters , the management has alrcady 
done the needful in respect of the same and there remains nothing outstanding 
for being done in this respect. I have already said above that the findings of the 
Inquiry Committee as now produced refer only to the question of seniority in 
respect of certain individual workers and these cases have been already dealt 
with by the management as it appears from its letter Ex . C - 18 addressed to 
Regional Labour Commissioner ( C ) , Jabalpur In any case the demand as it 
stands does not call for the determination of any individual cases and what I find 
from the recommendations of the Inquiry Committee is , as shown above, that 
where there is equal nierit , the seniority should count for preference while giving 
promotions or making fresh appointments and I hold accordingly . 

44 . Demand No. 8 - This demand raises the point as to what should be the 
principle ot reimbursing the cost of nedicine s to the employees who purchased 
The same from outside according to the agreement dated 24th January 1954 . The 
clause 14 of the said agrcement runs thus: 
" Inadequate supply of medicines in the Collicry hospital. Workers are asked 

to purchase medicines from the market for their treatment. All 
cssential medicini s be kept in the store Payment of the cost of 

medicines purchased by the workers be made. 
Payment of the cost of medicines purchased by workers under the 

instructions of the Medical Officer of the Colliery from outside with 
effect from 1st January 1952 in l esperi of diseases other than venereal 
diseases will be made by the Collicry on production of duly 
authenticated bills." 


45 . The cascs on behalf of the workmen in the statement of claims is that tho 
principle of reimbursing the cost of medicines to the employees is incorporated in 
the agreement itself and the managcment is required to pay all the hills of 
medicines purchascd from the market for diseases other than venereal diseases 
with retrospective effect from 1st January , 1952. Under the statement of claims 
however a further case is advanced . Firstly it is alleged that in order to avoid 
difliculty in getting necessary instructions of the Colliery Medical Officer tor 
purchase of medicines from the market, the best course is to store in the colliery 
hospital all medicines including patient medicines , injections, tonics etc . however 
costly they may be . Secondly it is alleged that the Coal Mines Labour Welfare 
Organisation has now taken the decision that treatment of T . B ., Venereal diseases 
etc . should be entirely the responsibility of the collieries and hence the manage 
ment should equip its hospital for treatment of employees in this respect also . 
In this connection it is pointed out that the agreement dated 24th January 1954 is 
now about 4 years old and the conditions have radically changed since then . The 
principle for the reimbursement of costs of medicines should not therefore be con 
aned to the letter of the agreement but should conform to its spirit and the 
requirements of the time. 


- 


27 . 

THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : JANUARY 14 , 1959 MAGHA 4 , 1880 FPART JI 
- - -- - - - 

- - - - - 
46 . The case of the company in its written statement is that it has been main 
taining well equipped and well- staffed dispensary at the colliery and the stocks 
of medicines are in no way less than what are prescribed by the Rules in connection 
with the annual grant-in - aid from the Coal Mines Welfare Fund . The additional 
demands of the Federation are beyond the scope of the terms of reference and the 
point before the Tribunal is restricted to what has been provided in the agree 
ment dated 24th January , 1954 At the time of the hearing Shri Bobde on behalf 
of the management referred to the list of drugs given under the Coal Mines Labour 
Welfare Rules , 1949 and according to him these are the medicines normully kept 
in stock in the hospital for which the management spends about Rs. 5 ,000 every 
year . He also made it clear that the management is prepared to follow the 
agreement as it stands. 

47. In my opinion in judging the present demand we are not required to look 
to any rules or any general considerations. Under the demand as it stands, the 
principle of reimbursing the cost of medicines to the employees who purchased 
the same from outside cannot be other than what it is according to the agrecment 
dated 24th January , 1954. The provision in the agreement is restricted to diverses 
other than venereal diseases and the medicincy purchased by workers from outside 
must be under the instructions of the Medical Officer of the colliery . It under 
such instructions the workers have to purchase any medicines from outside 121 
respect of diseases other than venereal, then they are entitled to be reimbu sed 
by payment of the cost of such medicines with effect from 1st January 1952 on 
probation of duly authenticated bllls . Practically this means that if the Medical 
Officer of the colliery on examining a particular worker for diseases other than 
venereal recommends certain medicines and these not being available in " he 
company s store , if he is required to purchase the same from outside , then the 
payment should be made to him for the cost of such medicines on production of 
the necessary voucher or the bill. I therefore hold that the principle of reimbursing 
the cost of such medicines should be on the aforesaid line as laid down in clause 
14 of the agreement dated 24th January , 1958. 


JOU 


Dated ; 
The 31st December , 1958 . 

P . D . Vyas, 

Judgc, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Nagpur 

[ No. LR -II /2 (29 )/55.1 
S . O . 201 . — In pursuance of section 17 oť the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Goverment hereby publishes the following award of 
thu Iuclustrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the New Jemehari Khus Collicry and their workmen . 
BETORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No . 18 OF 1958 
Employers in relation to New Jomehari Khas Colliery , P .O . Jaykaynagar 
District Burdwan 

AND 

Their workmen . 
Dhanbad , dated the 29th December 1958 

PRESENT ; 
Shri Salim M . Merchant, B . A ., LL . B ., Chairman . 
APPEARANCES : 

Shri D . Narsingh , Advocate - - for the employer -company. 
Shri Kalyan Roy, Secretary , Indian Mine Workers Federation , and Vice 

President, Colliery Mazdoor Sabha - - for the workmen , 
Industry : Coal 

State: West Bengal. 

AWARD 
The Government of India , Ministry of Labour & Employment, by its order 
No. LAJI / 2 ( 34 ) /58. dated 3rd April 1958 , made in exercise of the power con 
ferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes 


SEC. 3 (i )) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MACHA 4, 1980 


275 


Act, 1947 ( XIV of 1947 ) , was pleased to refer to me for adjudication the indus 
trial dispute between the parties above named in respect of the subject matters 
specified in the following schedule to the said order: 
" Whether the refusal on the part of the management of New Jemehari 

Khas Collicry , to re - employ Salvashri Narain Chandra Ghose , 
Suresh Bhar, Nalini Kanta Bose and Srimatı Uma Biswas retrenched 
workmen , on restarting of the collicry during January 1957 was 
improper and if so , whether these workmen should be reinstated 

or given any other alternative relief ." 
2 . Before dealing with the dispute on its merits it is necessary to give a 
brief account of the events leading upto the reference . It is admitted that the 
Jemchari Khas Colliery ( hereinafter referred to as the colliery ) at the relevant 
time- September 1956 - cmployed about 535 workmen of whom the union claims 
a membership of 509 workmen It appears that the collicry was flooded on 
26th September 1956 due to heavy on rush of water and the management closcd 
the colliery from 27th September 1956 aftor laying of the workmen by putting 
up the following notice : 

" New Jemchari Khas Colliery ( P ) Ltd ., dated 27th September 1956 . 
Notice to all workers and staff. 
This is to inform you all with a heavy heart that due to yesterday s flood 

the whole mine drowned , the situation being out of our control, as 

you knou , along with its all machinerics. 
Under the circumstances, there is no scope for any work whatsoever at 

the present moment in the mine . 
It is , therefore , notified that you may go on leave with pay in cases where 

entitled and without where not entitled until the mine is completely 
de - watered and work resumed . As soon as the minc functions you 
will be informed to join to your duties . 

( Sd .) M . SINHA, Manager." 


3 . According to the union this mine was ſooded because of the negligence 
of the management whilst management contends that the mine was flooded 
because of heavy rains, which had also similarly allerted other collicrios Be 
that as it may , it is admitted that thereafter the colliery re - started working 
in January 1957. The case of the union is that no notice was served upon the 
workmen informing them of the re - starting of the collicry as promised and 
required by the company s said closure notice of 27th September 1956 ; that on 
learning that the colliery had rc- started working , a large number of the laid 
of workmen including the 4 workmen under reference applicd for work but 
the management refused to re - employ them . It is, however , admitted that on 
the date of the closure of the colliery , of the 4 workmen mentioned in the order 
of reference, N . C . Ghosh was employed as an Overman , Suresh Bhar was 
cmployed as a C . P , Miner and Srimati Uma Biswas was employed as a Creche 
Attendant. With regard to the jourth workman , Nalini Kanta Bosc , the Union 
claims that on the date of the closure he was employed us a Pit Sirkar, whilst 
the company s case is that he was employed as a Transport Clerk , and further 
that on the date of the closure he was not in service , having been retrenched 
by the company s notice , dated 30th August 1956 According to the company, 
after the mine was closed on 27th September 1956 , it had put up a notice on 
29th September 1956 informing the workmen , " that those who do not want to 
avail of the leave until de -watering of the mine , may report themselves for 
works for cutting carth stone and coal on the new extensive quarry that has 
been opened near the 4 incline since last week ." (see annexure " A " to the written 
statement of the company ) But the union has denied any knowledge of this 
notice and no evidence was led at the hearing on the part of the management 
to establish that such a notice was at all put up . No reference to this notice 
has been made by the management in the correspondence that ensued betwcen 
it and the Conciliation Officer and /or the Union . I am , therefore, not satisfied 
that any such notice was issued by the management In any case , it is admitted 
that this notice would have applied only to Suresh Bhar who was a miner and 
not to the other 3 workmen who were doing other types of work . 


4 . According to the management it had put up a general notice on the mine , 
dated 15th December 1956 informing the laid off workers that the work in the 
pit would start from 1st January 1957 and asking them to join their respective 
duties preferably on that date and also informing them that it would not be 


276 


THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : JANUARI 24 . 1959,MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[PART 


bound to accept any of the workers who failed to join their duties by 15th 
January 1957 the latest. ( Annexure " B " to the company s written statement. ) 
The union at the hearing denied any konwledge of this notice . Like the earlier 
notice of 29th September 1956 no reference to this notice is contained in the 
correspondence that ensued nor did the company at the hearing lead any evid 
ence to prove the alleged notice . I am therefore not satisfied that the manage 
ment had put up the notice , dated 15th December 1956 as alleged . It may , how 
ever , be stated here and it is admitted that none of the laid off workmen has 
yet been paid the lay off compensation for the period from 27th September 1956 
when the colliery was closed , till January 1957 when the mine was re - opened . 

5 . To continue with the narration of events , the Union s casc is that each 
of these 4 workmen had approached the management for work on coming to 
know of the re - opening of the mine but the management refused them work , 
Thereafter , some 32 laid - off staff and labourers of the colliery including these 
4 workmen , addressed a petition to the Coal Mines Welfare Commissioner , 
Jagjivan Nagar, Dhanbad , with copies to several Government officials including 
the Conciliation Omcer , Asansol, Regional Labour Commissioner , Dhanbad , the 
Inspector, Labour Welfare (Mines ) , The Hon ble Labour Minister , West Bengal, 
and the Chief Inspector of Mines in India , Dhanbad A copy of that represen 
tation is attached to the written statement of claim of the union as Annexure 2 
and the registered postal acknowledgments thereof were also produced . That 
rcpresentation contained a list of grievances which the workomen had against 
the managenient of the colliery and in para , 4 thereof it was stated : 
" In spite of the full working of the colliery the Manager is not willing 

to re - employ most of the laid - off staff and labourers for the reasons 
best known to him He does not give us any assurances for our 

job cither verbally or written ." 
6 . It is, however , admitted that a copy of this petition was not addressed 
to the management. Thercafter between May and 26th August certain corres 
pondence ensued between the union and the Chief Labour Inspector , Asansol, 
and the management. I shall refer to that correspondence when I deal with the 
merits of the case of each of thesc 4 workmen . The next important event is 
the strike that took place in the colliery from 16th September 1957 and which 
was called off on 23rd September 1957 atter the agreement of 27th September 
1957 , admitted by the management ( Annexure 7 to the Union s statement of 
claim ) The agreement covers several subject matter s not relevant for the 
purposes of this reference . However, clauses 9 and 10 of the agreement relate 
to the claim for re - employment of 3 out of the 4 workmen concerned in this 
dispute, namely , N . C . Ghosh , Suresh Bhar, and Srimati Uma Biswas and I there 
fore re - reproduce them helow : 
" 9 . Management agreed to start the Creche soon The case of Miss Biswas 

may be rifered to the Conciliation Oificer whose decision will be 

final 
10 . The question of the reinstatement of Sarvashree Naryan Ghose and 

Suresh Bharwould be taken up separately for conciliation ." 
Upon this agreement beint eached , the strike was called off on and from 
23rd September 1957. I may pause here and state that thereafter the manage 
ment made an applicution to the Regional Labour Commissioner for declaring 
the strike as illegal under Section 24 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 for 
the purposes of the Coal Mine Bonus Scheme but the Regional Labour Com 
Inissioner , Dhanbad , by his decision , dated 1st April 1958 rejected the Inanage 
ment s application . From that order the management filed an appeal before this 
Tribunal, which was also rcjected and the order of the Regional Labour Com 
missioner was confirmed , 


7 . Thereafter , the union took up the cases of N . C Ghosh , Suresh Bhar and 
Srimati Uma Biswas in conciliation and in spite of the Conciliation Officer hav 
ing offered the management every opportunity to atiend before him the manage 
ment under various pretexts did not take any effective part in the conciliation 
proceedings which consequently ended in failure . 


8 . With regard to Nalini Kanta Bose as his case had already been taken up 
in conciliation by the date of the agreement of 22nd September 1957, he was 
not mentioned in that agreement. The Union has filed the correspondence that 
passed between it and the Senior Labour Inspector, Conciliation Officer , and the 
Regional Labour Commissloner on the one hand and the management on the 


. 460 . 3 ( ii )] THE GALETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 

277 
-- -- - = = = = = - - - - - - 
other, with regard to its demand for re - employment of these 4 workmen . The 
conciliation proceedings, having ended in failure, the Government was pleased 
to refer this dispute to adjudication , 


9 . Now , the company s case is that none of these 4 workmen had reported 
for work within a reasonable time, after the re - starting of the colliery in 
January 1957 and therefore it was justified in not re - employing them . It has 
argued that in terms of the Government Order of Reference the enquiry should 
be confined and limited only to the events upto January 1957 when the colliery 
was re - started and the lay -off ended , and the subsequent events should not be 
looked into . I am of the opinion that this is not a valid contention . The 
Government order of reference 15 dated 3rd April 1958 and admittedly the 
Government referred the dispute after the failure of the conciliation proceed 
ings. The events that took place after the colliery was re - opened in January 
1957 are in my opinion material for a propor adjudication of this dispute , which 
is regarding their ieinstatement in service . The company by agreement of 22nd 
September 1957 agreed to refer to conciliation the cases of Ghose, Suresh Bhar , 
And Srimati Umu Biswas. With regard to the fourth workman , Nalini Kantä 
Lose. the workmen s case is that he was not dismissed as alleged by the com 
pany by its notice , dated 30th August 1956 and that he had also been laid - off 
and had not been given work though he applied for the same after the re -opening 
of the minc. His case was also taken up in conciliation , but independently . 
There are also certain letters and notices addressed by the company to these 
workmen and other subsequent events and happenings are material for deter 
nuning whether these workmen are entitled to be reinstated and if not what 
other relief they are cntitled to . In my opinion , for a proper adjudication oť 
this dispute , 11 19 necessary to consider the events that took place subscquent 
to the re - opening of the mind in January 1957 till the failure of the conciliation 
proceedings before the Conciliation Officer , after which the reference was made 
by Government. 

10 . I now proceed to discuss the case of cach workman on their merits 
Varain Chandra Ghose: 

11, According to the union he had worked as an Overman for over 7 years , 
Whilst the company states that he had been in service as an Overman in the 
- colliery from December 1953 The Union also allege s that he is the Joint Secre 
tary of the Local Branch of the Union , but the management denies all konwledge 
of this . It is , however , admitted that he was in service of the colliery on 27th 
September 1956 , when the workmen were laid -off due to the flooding of the 
colliery . Though in him lctter , dated 26th August 1957 addressed to the Manager 
of the colliery Ghose had stated that after the closure of the colliery he was 
un - employed , it is admitted in the written statement of claim that after the 
closure of the colliery on 27th September 1956 , he was employed as an over 
man in the Gajdar Kajora Colliery According to the Union he took up this 
job icmporarily during the period of his lay -off . The company has in this con 
llection examilied Sri Abinay , the Manager of the Gajdar Kajora Collicrv 
( E . W . 11 who stated in his examination - in - chief that Ghose had worked in the 
Gajdar Kajora colliery froni 16th October 1956 to 20th April 1957 a , a tempo 
rary Overman , and that Ghose had told him that he was working as an Overman 
in the Jemehari Khas colliery , which had been temporarily closed down duo 
to inundation and that he would go back to the service of the Jemchari Khas 
colliery when it would re - start working . He stated that the Provident Fund 
Arcount of Ghose had heen transferred to him . In Cross - examination Shri De 
water that when he came to know sometime in April 1957 that the Jumehari 
Khas colliery had re - started working he asked Ghose to leave hus colliery . He 
also stated that he was formerly a manager of the Jemchari Khas colliery and 
that each of these 4 workmen had then worked under him and he had found 
their work satisfactory and thero had been no trouble in the collirry. From 
this evidence it is clear that Ghose s statement in his letter , dated 26th August 
1957 that he was unimployed after the closure of the collicry is false and that 
in fact he had taken up service only temporarily in the Gajdar Kajora colliery 
till the Jemehari Khas Collicry was re - started and that he was anxious to get 
back to his post of Overman in the Jemehari Khas collicry where he had put 
in several ycars of service . 

12 . According to the Union , Ghose on coming to know that the Jemehari 
Khas Collicry had re- opened made several verbal requests for being taken back 
in service but the management refused to employ him . The management relying 
upon its alleged notice of 15th December 1956 , urges that as Ghose had failed 
to report for work by 15th January 1957 , As required by that notice or a reason 
able time thercafter, the management was lustified in not taking him back to 


278 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


[PART N 


work . Now , the union denies knowledge of the company s notice, dated 15th 
December 1956 and its case is that no such notice was at all put up . As I have 
stated carlier , the management has not led any evidence to prove that it had 
put up that notice nor is there any reference to that notice in the correspondence 
that had subsequently ensued . By the company s closure notice , dated 27th 
September 1956 the company had stated that as soon as the mine would start 
functioning again , the workmen would be informed to join duties . Surely , even 
assuming that the notice , dated 15th December 1957 had been put up by the 
( ompany , one would expect a more satisfactory mude of intimation to the work 
men that the colliery had been rc - started , than by a notice being put up on 
the colliery . As I have stated earlier, on 28th March 1957, Ghose along with 
31 other laid -off workmen had addressed a petition to the Coal Mines Wellare 
Commissioner and other officers complaining that the Manager was not taking 
them back in service for the reasons best known to him . This shows that even 
prior to 28th March 1957 Ghose had applied to the management to be taken back . 
in service . I am satisfied that prior to 28th March 1957 , Ghose on learning 01 
the- colliery having re - started work had applied to be taken in service and had 
her- refused employment After Shri Ghose had addressed the petition of 28th . 
March 1957, Shri Kalyan Roy, the Secretary of the Indian Minc Workers Fede 
J ation Iddressed a letter , dated 14th May 1957 to the Senior Labour Inspector, 
Asansol , with a copy to the Manager of the ( ulliery ( Annexure III to thc Union s 
Wuitton statement) in which he stated certain grievarices of the workmon , Para 
11 of that letter was as follows: — 


" 14 ) When the collit ry was closed , workers dispcrsod . But when it was , 

opened again , new workers have been appointed instead of old 
workers . Shri Naraydil Chandra Ghost , Overman , has not been 
taken in luis job , while a new overman named Yusuf Miən has been 

appointed a month back . 
Ic ) Instead of employing old workers , the company is cmploying fcw 

new hands and denying jobs to old workers ," 
To this letter the company , replicd on 2 : rd May 1957 ( Annexure 4 to the Union s 
written statement) denying the Federation s right to represent thc grievances 
of the workmen , on the ground that the management did not recognise it but 
the Mazdoor Congress Committcc which represented the workmen of the colliery 
and therefore it could not take any action on that letter. 

13 Thereafter, on 17th July , 1957 the Manager of the colliery addressed a 
letter to Ghost in which he stated that since the mine was drowned he had been 
working in some other collicry and was not available for duty ; that he had been 
asked by the company s letter dated 6th May , 1957, to take final payment, which 
he had refused to accept. He was therefore asked to call at the office and take 
his final puiuent. The management concluded the lctter by stating : 
due to your continuous troublesore behaviour, it has been decided by 

the Director to pay you oft finally ." 
Ghose replied by his letter dated 26th August , 1957 ( Annexure 5 to the union s 
written statement) in which he stated that he had been un - employed since the 
colliery was closed . He further stated that though he had approached him 
several times for his job , he had appointed another man in his place . He denied 
that the management had informed or written to him to take any payment final 
or otherwise and therefore the question of his not having replied to the com 
pany s letter or 6th May, 1957, did not arise. He concluded the letter by stating :- - 
" I have approached you on several occasions, but have been insulted and 

abused by you . Any enquiry will prove that So I am surprised 
to read the last paragraph of your letter. This is not only vague 

but absolutely baselcss, " 
I may pause here and stated that at the hearing the company was not able to 
prove its alleged letter of 5th June, 1957. Ghose forwarded a copy of this letter 
to the Conciliation Officer ( Central ) , Asansol, and Regional Labour Commissioner 
i Central) , Dhanbad and his case was thereupon taken up in conciliation ( see 
annexure 8 to the Union s written statement ) . Thereafter, as stated earlier, on 
18th September, 1957, there wag a strike in the colliery over certain demands 
of the workmen . Conciliation proceedings were held and the strike was evidently 
called off after the management had addressed its letter dated 22nd September, 
1957, to the Conciliation Officer ( Annexure 7 to the union s written statement ) , 
under para 10 whereof the company agreed that the question of the reinstatements 
of Ghose would be taken up separately for conciliation , 


27 ) 


Sec . $ ( 11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1886 

= = - - - - - - - 
14 . The union s grievance is that having agreed to refer Gliose s case to 
conciliation , the management avoided attending the conciliation proceedings over 
the refusal of the management to give work to Ghose. This grievance appears 
to ine to be justified. The Conciliation Officer by his letter dated 16th September , 
1957, asked the management to appear before him on 24th September , 1957 , but 
the manager nor his representative attended . On 29th September , 1957, the 
Conciliation Officer addressed another letter to the Manager of the colliery in 
which he expressed his regret at the Manuger not having attended the meeting 
on 24th Septembor , 1957 and asked him to attend personally or thiough his 
authorised agent on 10th October , 1957. ( Annexure 9 to the union s written 
stateinent ). But the management failed to attend even on that date , It , how 
ever , appears to have sent a letter to the Conciliation Officer on the 9th but the 
contents of that letter are not known . The Conciliation Officer thercafter address 
cd another letter on 10th October , 1957, informing the Manager of the colliery 
that he would take up the case of Ghose on 15th October and once again calling 
upon him to attend or to send his representation on that day . The management 
attended that hearing , but nothing tangible serms to have emerged at that incct 
ing and the conciliation proceedings were adjourned to 30th October , 1957 but 
by the Conciliation Officer s letter dated 26th October , 1957 ( annexure 12 to the 
Union s written statement ) the hearing was changed to 6th November , 1957 


15 In the meantime, when the conciliation proceedings were in progress , the 
manager on 19th October , 1957 addressed a notice to Ghosc ( Annexure 11 to the 
ution s written statement ) under certificate of posting. This letter is an important 
document and I therefore reproduce it in full : 
" To Shri Narayan Ghose , 

As you have refused to take delivery of the chargesheet dated 18th 
October , 1957, you have indicated that you know the seriousness of 
the offence. 
JIowever, the letter iş again sent under certificate of posting ." 

Yours sincerely, 

( Sd ) M SINHA. 
New Jemehari Khas Collicry " 


Now , Ghuse denies any knowledge of the alleged cliarge sheet dated 13th October, 
1997 and his case is that the story of any such charge sheet having been offered 
to him and his having refuscd to accept it is false , When pressed at the hearing 
10 produce a copy of the alleged charge - sheet , the management could not produce 
it. The company consequently changed its story and stated that 110 charge shect 
in fact was issued , but that a letter had been addressed to Ghose stating that he 
had forcibly entered the Creche in the colliery But even a copy of this allcged 
letter was not produced . The union s contention is that no charge sheet or any 
letter of the nature stated by the management had ever been served and that 
the whole story of the charge sheet was made up to avoid appearing before the 
Conciliation Officer . I am inclined to accept this contention of the Union and 
the subsequent events , to which I shall presently refcr , support this contention of 
the Union . It appears that thereafter a criminal case was instituted against 
Ghose and Suresh Bhar and some others in the Court of the 2nd Class Magistrate 
at Asansol ( Case No , GR 3630 of 1957 ) charging them with offences under Sec 
tions 448 and 323 I. P . C . with having entered the quarters of the new Creche 
Attendant, Shrimati Kanak Sirkar, who had been appointed after Shrimati Uma 
Biswas , was refused employment and of having assaulted here on 3rd November , 
1957. That case was decided on 15th November, 1957 and Ghose and Suresh Bhar 
and the other accused were acquitted . During the pendency of that case the 
management on 4th November, 1957, wrote to the Conciliation Oflcer declining 
to attend conciliation proceedings fixed before him on 6th November , 1957, on the 
plea that the conciliation proceedings would adversely affect the pending criminal 
case against Ghose . The Union , however , made a strong representation to the 
Conciliation Officer to continue the Conciliation proceedings and the Conciliation 
Oncer by his letter dated 21st November , 1957 ( Annexure 14 to the Union s 
written statement) , once again called upon the management to attend the concilia 
tion proceedings before him on 29th November 1957. The management appears 
to have addressed a letter to the Conciliation Officer dated 30th November , 1957 , 
requesting that the meeting be held on 13th December , 1957 . The Conciliation 
Officer by his letter dated 5th December , 1957 ( Annexure 15 to the union s writ 
ten statement ) stated that he was anxious to hold the conciljation proceedings 


280 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


PART II 


at an earlier date , but as desired by the management he fixed the meeting for 
13th December, 1957, and appealed to the Manager that if discussion on all the 
pending disputes were not finished on that day , the manager should co - operate 
by attending from day to day and not prolong the dispute any further. But 
the nanagement did not attend on 13th December , 1957 . On 9th December , 1957 
Shri Kalyan Roy, addressed a letter to the Conciliation Officer ( Anncxure 16 10 
the union s written statement ) complaining against the management s systematic 
violation of the agreement of 23rd September , 1957 and stating inter alia that 
the management had got crim " - . " ed against Ghose and Suresh 
Bhar , only to prejudice the 

before him . Shri Roy & lst 
stated that after having agreed on 23rd September, 1957 to refer the cases of 
Ghose and Bhar for conciliation , the management had on 29th November, 1957, 
sent amounts to Ghose and Suresh Bhar by Money Order in " final payment" , 
which they had refused to accept. Shri Roy stated that this was done in violation 
of the agreement of 23rd September , 1957. In a letter dated 9th December, 1957, 
addressed to the Sub - Divisional Officer , Asansol, Shri Kalyan Roy alleged that 
the company had engaged two new Overmen , whilst Ghose had been kept idle . 
In that letter Shri Roy also referred to a criminal case which was Aled before 
Shri Chatterjee , First Class Magistrate , Asansol, in which the management had 
agreed to refer all dispute to the Conciliation Officer for settlement, but the 
management never acted upon that undertaking . At the hearing the union gave 
the number of the case as Misc . case No. 113 of 1957 and the date when the 
case was disposed off as 9th November , 1957 and these facts are not denied by . 
the management. 

16 . The subsequent proceedings before the Conviliation Officer did not yield 
any fruitful results . It appears that there was some proceeding held on 14th 
January , 1958, when the Manager alleged he was insulted by Shri Kalyan Roy 
using un - seemly language about him . The manager protested against this by 
his letter dated 18th January , 1958, addressed to the Conciliation Officer , Ranigun ] , 
And consequently the conciliation ended in failure and the conciliation officer 
reported accordingly to Government who was pleased to make this reference. 

17. Now from these facts , I am satisfied that Ghose had within reasonable time 
applied for his old job of overman on coming to know that the colliery had re 
started work and that the management had refused to take him back The 
management has not been able to prove its alleged notice of 15th Derember, 1956 , 
by which the workmen are alleged to have becn informed that the pit would re 
start working from 1st January , 1957 and asking them to re - join their duties 
preferably by that date and further informing them that it would not be bound 
to re - employ those who failed to re - join service by 15th January , 1957. When 
a mine is closed for & long period and the workmen are laid off , they naturally 
disperse and do not continue to stay on at the colliery. In my opinion the com 
pany s alleged notice to the workmen , even assuming that such a police was put 
un . was in the circumstances of the casc not a proper or adequate notice and 
therefore some latitude in the time within which these workmrui could report 
for work should be allowed No doubt, after he had been laid - oft Ghose had 
accepted service with the Cajdar Kajora Collicry , but thut was a temporary 
appointment till sich time as the colliery was to be re - starter , as is made clear 
by the statement of Shri Dr , the Manager of that collicry , who stated that Ghose 
had bcen engaged by him only temporarily till such time as the New Jemchari 
Khas colliery would re -open and that on coming to know in April 1957 that the 
said colliery had re- opened , hir asked Ghose to leave his colliery . It is significant 
that even before leaving the Gajdar Kajora Collicry , Ghose had addressed the 
Detition np 28th March . 1957 to several authorities complaining that h3 was not 
being taken back in service , though the colliery had rc - npened . Thereafter fol 
lowed the correspondence with the management to which I have referred . All 
this shows that Ghose was anxious to get back his old job in this colliery where 
he had put in several years of service . In the facts and circumstances of the 
case , I am satisfied that Ghose had within r casonable time of the re - opening oi 
the colliery applied to be taken back in service but the management had refused 
to re -employ him . The story o . the company having addressed the letter datec 
6th May , 1957, and of the charge sheet dated 18th October , 1957 appear to me 
to be falsc. If anything , they would show that the company had treated him a : 
continuing in its servicc. After the strike of September , 1957 the company ir 
writing agreed to refer Ghose s case to the Conciliation Omcer and I am satisfiec 
that thereafter the management did not honour this agreement and avoidei 
appearing before the Conciliation Officer , on the pretext that Ghose was under 
prosecution for the alleged offence of having trespassed into the quarters of the 
new Creche Nurse and of having assaulted her , of which charge he was subse 
quently acquitted . I cannot help stating that the conduct of the managemen 


- 


- - - 


Sec . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA JANUARY 21 1039 / 1 CII ! 1880 281 

- - - 
in this respect appears to me to be mala fide. The management also did not 
pay any lay - off compensation which it was clearly liable to pay to its workmen 
for the lay -off period . On the facts and circumstances of the case, I am more than 
satisfied that the company had improperly refused to re - employ Ghose after re 
starting of the colliery and that he is entitled to be reinstated in servicc . Consi 
dering that Ghose was in employment of the Gajdar Kajora colliery till 20th 
April, 1937 and the other facts and circumstances of the case , I think the fail 
order to makc would be to direct that Ghose should be reinstated in service as 
Overman with continuity of service and be paid half his wages (basic wage and 
Dearness allowance ) as Overman for the period from 1st October , 1957, till the 
date he reports himself for duty in the collier y which he should do within a 
fortnight from the date this Award shall become enforceable . I further direct 
that the amount found due to him as stated above shall be calculated and paid 
to him within 10 days of his re - joinilig service . 
Shri Suresh Bhar . 

18 It is admitted that Suresh Bhar was employed as a C . P . Miner and had 2 
years service from 81h September, 1954 to 26th September . 1956 to his credit on 
the date the mine was closed on 27th September , 1956 . According to the Union , 
on the colliery being re -started in January 1957, he asked for his job but the 
management refused to re -employ him lle one of the signatories to lic 
petition , dated 28th March , 1957. ( Annexure 3 to the Union s written statement) 
Thereafter on 3rd June 1957, he addressed i letter to the Manager of the colliers 
L omplaining that after re - opening of the collicry he was not taken back in service 
to his old job iior was paid lay -off compensation . He applicd to be allowent to 
lesume his duties and claimed lay off compensation ( Annexure 18 the union s 
written statement ). The management adouts receipt of this letter. The Managci 
replied by his lctter dated 22nd June , 1957 , in which after referring to his earlicr 
letter dated 18th April 1957, he stated " instead of taking final payment iſ VOL 
go on hidulging in various violent activities in this way day after day , I shall 
have to take serious action against you " . In the meantime, the matter appears 
to have been referred to the Senior Labour Inspector, Asansol. who after having 
mnade some enquiries from the Manager , addressed a letter to Bhar on 15th Julie , 
1957 ( Annexure 19 to the Union s written statement ), in which he stated that he 
liad visited thc collicrv on 1st Junc, 1957 and 20th June, 1957 for looking into his 
case and that the management lialt stated that lie had reported for duty only in 
April 1957 and was then verbally informed that there was no work for him as the 
mnine was working only partially and there was no scope for employment of 
workmen of his category and that he should wait until further de - pillaring work 
starts within a few months thereafter ; that the management had reported hat 
instead of acting on this advice he ( Suresh Bhar ) had indulged in violent activities 
against the management and that the management by its letter dated 18th 
November , 1957 had asked him to take his final dues which he had failed to do 
In vicw of these facts . the Senior Labour Inspector stated that he regretted he could 
not do anything further in the matter. ( Annexure 19 to the Union s writteri 
statement ) To this letter the Secretary of the Union replicd on 31st October . 
1957 stating that he had been mis - informed hy the management; that if he had 
gone through the register of the company he would have found that new hands 
had been appointed as C . P . miners after April 1957; that after waiting for a few 
months Bhar had again asked for (mployment but had been refused employment 
and the management had framed a false charge against him ; that the enquiry he 
had made was one sided and in the absence of Bhar and requested him again to 
enquire into the matter . To this letter the Senior Labour Inspector replied on 
20th November , 1957 repeating that having applied for re - employment only in 
April 1957 , he was asked by the management to wait for sometime and havin 
indulged in violent activities he was not considered for subscquent appointment 
( Annexure 21 to the Union s written statement) . To this letter the Union replied 
on 19th December 1957, asking the Labour Inspector not to believe what the 
Manager had informed him ; but to hold a proper enquiry in the presence of 
Bhar . The union also alleged that the management was victimising Bhar because 
he was an active trade union worker . He therefore asked the Senior Labour 
Inspector to make a proper enquiry in the presence of Bhar Annexure 22 to the 
Union s written statement ) . Then followed the strike of September 1957 and by 
clause 10 of the agreement of 22nd September 1957 , the management agreed to 
refer Bhar s case to the Conciliation Oficcr along with that of Ghose . On 30th 
December 1957, the Conciliation Officer ( Central) , Raniganj wrote a letter to the 
parties calling them for a discussion on 14th January 1958 , but the management 
declined to discuss the matter in the presence of the union and consequently the 
coliciliation failed . The union has also relied on Shri Kalyan Roy s letters , dated 
6th December 1957, and 9th December 1957 addressed to the Regional Labour 


- 282 

THE GAZETI E OF INDIA . JANUARY 24 , 1959 ,MAGHA 4 , 1880 (Paar II 
- - 

- - - - - - - --- - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Commissioner and the Sub Divisional Officer, Asansol respectively in which he 
complained against the harrassment to which union officials were being subjected 
and the false cases which the management had filed against Bhar. 

19 . The management s case is that Bhar had failed to report himself for the 
alternative work which it had offered to miners at the quarry by its notice dated 
29th September 1956 . But as I have stated earlier , the Union denied this notice 
and the notice was not proved . The management has stated that Bhar was 
working under Şirdar Ramdhari and that after the notice of 29th September 1956 , 
many of the workers of this Sirdar had accepted alternative work in the quarry . 
But the management has not led any evidence to prove this . From what the 
Manager had stated to the Senior Labour Inspector , when he went for enquiries 
on 1st June, 1956 and 12th June , 1956 , it does appear that Bhar had applied to 
work but according to the management only in April 1957. I am however, inclined 
to accept union s story that cven prior to April 1957 , he had applied for work but 
had been refused work . It has, however, to be borne in mind that the manage 
ment in April 1957 had asked him to wait for a few months till de - pillaring 
started , when he was assured he would be taken back in service . The manage 
inent also by the agreement of 23rd September 1957, had agreed to refer his caso 
for conciliation to the Conciliation Officer, but the conciliation failed herause 
the management later non - cooperated with the enquiry . 

20 . On these facts and circumstances of the case , I hold that the manage 
ment s refusal to re - employ Suresh Bhar in service after the re - opening of the 
• colliery was not proper . 

21. With regard to what relief should be granted to him , I am of the opinion 
that this is not a fit case where re - instatement should be ordered , as it is admitted 
that in Misc . Case No X13 of 1957 under Section 107 of the Cr . Procedure Code 
decided on 9th November 1957, that Bhar had given an understanding to be of 
good behaviour and not to disturb the peace and on that undertaking the case 
was withdrawn . It was also stated at the hearing that Bhar has been involved in 
as many as seven criminal cases , which had been instituted against him . According 
to the management the Manager of the colliery was severely assaulted on 12th 
March , 1958 when he received several injuries and Bhar is an accused in that 
- case No doubt Bhar was acquitted in the case in which he was charged along 
with Ghose with having trespassed into the room of the new creche attendant 
and of having assaulted her . In all 7 criminal cases have been instituted against 
Bhar, out of which 3 are still pending . No doubt in each of the 4 cases which 
have so far been decided Bhar has been acquitted , but 3 cases are still pending 
against him , including the case of having assaulted the manager . In the circum 
stances, I am not inclined that it would be in the interest of industrial peace to 
direct his reinstatement in service . I think the ends of justice would be met it 
the management were asked to treat his case as one of retrenchment on the dato 
the colliery reopened in January 1957 and he were directed to be treated as 
having been retrenched and paid retrenchment compensation for his service with 
the company till that date , at the rate of 1 / 2 month s wages (basic plus dearness 
allowance ) for each completed year of service, period of more than 6 months 
service being treated as one completed ycar of service . I further direct that this 
amount should be paid to him within a week of this Award becoming enforceable . 
This compensation would be in addition to whatever other dues he was entitled 
to on the re- opening of the colllery , including lay -off compensation for the period 
of lay off . 
Nalini Kanta Bosem 

22 . According to the union Nalini Kanta Bose was working as Pit Sirkar and 
had put in 7 years service with this company. The union claims that he was the 
treasurer of the local branch of the Sabha , According to the Union he was in 
service on the date of the closure of the colliery on 27th September 1950 and on 
the re -opening of the colliery in January 1957 he had approached the manage 
ment to give him back his employment, but the management refused to do so . 
He was one of the signatories to the petition dated 28th March 1957, ( Annexure 
2 to the Union s written statement ) to which I have already referred . Thereafter 
on 3rd June 1957, he wrote a letter to the Manager of the colliery stating that 
after the re - opening of the colliery he had not been taken back in his old job and 
no laid -off compensation had been paid to him . He concluded by asking the 
management to allow him to resume his duty . ( Annexure 25 to the Union s 
written statement ). The receipt of this letter by the management is admitted 
According to the Union , thereafter on 1st August 1957, the company appointed 
a new Plt Sirkar and on 5th August 1957, the Union addressed a letter to the 
Conciliation Officer, Central, Asansol ( Annexure 26 ) , complaining that Bose had 


Src : $ ( 11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959/ MAGIIA 4 , 1889 

283 
- - - - - - - - - > 
not been re - employed after re - opening of the colliery and no lay - off compensa 
tion had ben paid to him so far; that Bose had on several occasions approached 
the local management to re - employ him but the management had kept quiet . The 
Union further stated that a new Pit Sirdar had been appointed by the manage 
ment in spite of the fact that an old employee of the category had not been 
taken back . The union alleged that the management was indulging in anti- labour 
uctivities and violating its standing orders. It concluded by requesting the Con 
ciliation Officer to intervene in the matter and secure reinstatement of Bose with 
all back wages . A copy of this letter was also forwarded to the Senior Labour 
Inspector, Asansol, Regional Labour Commissioner (Central ), Dhanbad , and 
also to the Managing Director of the Colliery. Thercupon , the Conciliation Officer 
wrote to the Managing Director of the colliery on 12th August 1957, inviting 
rotcrence to the Union s letter of 5th August and calling upon the management 
to attend before him on 17th August 1957 , for a joint discussion ( Annexure 27 to 
the written statement of the Union ) The management did not attend the meeting 
of 17th August 1957, as also on 24th August 1957, and thereupon the Conciliation 
Officer addressed another letter dated 2nd September 1957, to the Managing 
Director recording the said absence of the management, and asking him , " to submit 
a written reply in the matter for not attending the earlier meetings." ( Annexure 
28 to the written statement of the Union ). A copy of this letter was endorsed by 
Conciliation Officer to the office Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Sabha , Asansol, with 
the remark that the inanagement was not agreeable to participate in a joint 
inceting with his Union The management did not comply with the request 
contained in the Conciliation Officer s letter of 2nd September 1957 and thereupon 
the Conciliation Officer wrote another letter on 24th October 1957 , to the Manager 
of the colliery informing him that he would take up the dispute for discussion 
on 30th October 1957, and requiring him to attend with all relevant papers either 
personally or through his authorised representative ( Annexure 29 to the written 
statement of the Union ). The Conciliation Officery also requested the office 
Secretary of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha to attend the meeting fixed for 30th 
October 1957 . It appears that thereafter the Conciliation Officer had some con 
versation with the Manager of the colliery on 30th November 1957, when he visited 
the colliery and he wrote a letter on the 21st November 1957 to the Manager 
Requesting him to attend the meeting called for 29th November 1957 for further 
discussion in the matter and also requested him to bring along with him a 
written reply in the matter , if necessary . Some discussion thereafter appcars 
to have been taken place on 12th December 1957, and on 30th December 1957 , 
the Conciliation Officer again wrote to the Manager asking him to attend on 
14th January 1958 , for further discussion with all relevant papers. On 14th 
January 1958 , the Conciliation Omcer took up the cases of N , K , Bose as also of 
Bhur but the management though represented refused to discuss with the Union 
and the Conciliation efforts thus ended in failure . 

23. The Union urges that the management had wrongly refused to l e - employ 
M . K . Bose after the colliery re - opened in January 1957 and prays that it should 
be directed to reinstate him with all back wages . 

34 . The company s case , on the other hand , is that N K . Bose way not 
employed as a Pit Sirkar, but was employed as a Transport Clerk . It denies 
that he had been in service of this colliery for 7 years and states that he was 
employed on 1st January , 1954. On the merits, the company s case is that he had 
been retrenched from service by the company s one month s notice dated 30th 
August 1956 which expired on 30th September 1956 and therefore he was not one 
of the workmen laid off when the mine was closed on 27th September 1956 and 
the notice of closure dated 27th September 1956 , did not apply to him . The 
company on the basis of this notice has argued that his case is not covered by 
the Government s order of reference , as he cannot be said to have been kept 
out of employment on the re -opening of the colliery in January 1957. Now , the 
Union has denied the notice of 30th August 1956 and it has urged that the com 
spany s story of this notice is false and an afterthought. Yet the management 
Ved no evidence at the hearing to prove this alleged notice 


25 . The company s case was that N . K . Bose had signed in ręccipt of this 
notice in the peon book but when asked to produce the peon book it stated that 
it was not avallable as it had been lost during the flooding of the mine . I And 
it impossible to believe this story of the management. If any such notice had 
been served , surely the management would have made a reference to it in the 
correspondence which subsequently took place or made a mention of it in its 
Jetters to the Conciliation Officer. At the hearing Shri D . Narsingh , Advocate , for 
the company fairly admitted that the company had not referred to its alleged 
loolice of 30th August 1956 in its letters to the Regional Labour Commissioner. 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


284 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 188A 

[PART II 
- - - - - - - - 
The story of the notice of 30th August 1956 has been put forward for the Arst 
time in the written statement of the company and I am of the opinion that this 
defence is false and put up as an afterthought. It is significant that the manage 
ment did not reply to N . K . Bose s letter of 3rd June, 1957, receipt of which it 
admits nor did it deny Bose s statement that he had not been re - employed though 
he had approached the management for his old job after the colliery had re -opened . 
On the record . I am satisfied that N , K . Bose was one of the workmen who was 
Jaid off when the colliery was closed on 27th September 1956 and that in spite of 
his having approached the management for his job after the colliery was re 
opened , he was not l e - employed . The management s story of his having been 
retrenched by its notice dated 30th August 1956 appears to me to be false I 
would iherefore answer the question in reference in us tavour. 

26 . It was suggested on behalf of the management that its action was hona 
fide as it had retained N . K Bose s daughter Shetali Bose in its service. But 
the union has pointed out that the company had in fact attempted to terminate her 
services also and it was admitted that she was taken back in service only on 1st 
March 1958 as a result of conciliation proceedings. 

27. I think this is a fit case where reinstatement with continuity of service 
should be ordered with back wages ( Basic pay and Dearness Allowance ) from 
3rd June 1957 , and I award accordingly . The minigenent is therefore directed to 
re -employ N . K . Bose in his former post on his reporting for reinstatement withir 
10 days from the date this award becomes onforrizable . I further direct that his 
wages from 3rd June 1957 till the date he is reinstated in service, should he paid 
to him within 10 days of his joining the service , 
Shrimati Umi Bisidas- - 

3 It is admitted that she was the Creche Attendant of the collicry ang 
according to the company she had been in service for several years but the 
letter of appointment given to her on 20th December 1951 shows that she w " 
appointed as a Creche Nurse of this colliery with clect from 1st January , 1952 
It is admitted that when the colliery closed on 27th September 1956 , the Croche 
WAS closed and thereafter when tlit colliei y was re -opened in January 1957 she 
was not given work . The Uniun 10 its written statement of claim has attached 
a number of documents, some of llicm relating to events which took place cven 
prior to the closure of the colliery The Annexure A series therelo refer to the 
correspondence that had passed between her and the Manager during August 1956 
relating to quarters for her . It appears that when she joined service she was 
living in a part of the creche building . By this letter dated 2nd August 1956 , the 
Monager Asked her to vacate the creche And Occupy another quarter, but 
Shrimati Biswas by her letter dated 4th August 1956 objected that the quarters 
were not suitable for a female employee of her category - as they were without 
any latrine, kitchen and bath room To this the Manager replied on 6ti August 
1956 , that other stall were occupyilię such quarters with their family and that her 
continuing to occupy the creche building was irregular and illegal. This corres 
pondence then rested there, till it was revived in March 1957 when there was a 
further exchange of letters between the parties . In the meantime, after the 
colliery was ic - opened in January 1957, the Managing Director of the colliery on 
11th February 1957 addressed a letter to the manager of the colliery regarding 
certain articles alleged to be missing from the creche . He was asked to ask Miss 
Uma Biswas s ("xplanation with regard to it The Manager of the colliery then 
addressed a letter to Uma Biswas on 16th February 1957, forwarding a copy of the 
Managing Director s letter to him asked for explanation with regard to the 
missing articles to which she replied on 18th February 1957 denying her 
responsibility for the alleged missing articles. She also asked for the particulars 
of the missing articles . According to her on 9th February 1957 she learnt that 
the lock had been broken on 6th and some articles were missing ; that the creche 
was closed for 5 months and she therefore did not know wliat had happened . 
She stated that on learning on the 9th February 1957 that the lock had been 
broken , she had been to see the manager who refused to see her and she had 
thereafter called again twice or thrice on him but he did not see her. She asked 
to he allowed to see everything so that she would establish her innocence. This 
correspondence is Annexure B to the Union s written statement. No enquiry 
was held on the charge but almost 5 months later , the company by its letter dated 
18th July 1957 dismissed her on the ground that she had failed to see the Managing 
Director when she was called upon to do so and her explanation with regard to 
the missing articles was not found satisfactory . To this she replied on 5th 
August 1957 that the question of the missing articles had been settled before the 
Conciliation Officer ( Central) and the Labour Inspector ( Central ) on 27th March 


Sz0 . % ( 11)] 


THE GA , 


OF INÐIA : JA 


ARY 24 , 


" MAGHA 4 , 


I 


285 


1957 when it was proved that she was not responsible for the missing articles . 
She further stated that she had met the manager who assured her that the creche 
would be opened soon and she would be given back her job . She alleged that 
the manager wanted to victimise her on false charges and concluded by asking 
him to allow her to resume her duties (Annexure D2 to the D series ) . Some 
further letters were exchanged on the subject of her dismissal ending with the 
manager s letter to her dated 24th August 1957 , stating that nothing further 
could be done ( Annexure D3, D4 and D5 ) . 


29. In the meantime when Shrimati Uma Biswas was admittedly not given 
any work after the re- opening of the colliery in January 1957 she addressed a 
representation dated 26th March 1957 to the Labour Welfare Commissioner , 
Jagjiván Nagar, Dhanbad , who has authority to see to the proper working of 
creches in collieries . She also signed the representation dated 28th March 1967, 
referred to carlier (Annexure 2 to the Union s written statement) which was 
addressed to the Coal Mines Welfare Commissioner and other authorities. In her 
letter dated 6th June 1957 addressed to the Senior Labour Welfare Officer , Kulla , 
Shrimati Uma Biswas recorded that the Manager of the colliery had promised 
her in the presence of Shri B . B . Prasad , Coal Mines Labour Welfare Inspector , 
that he would give her back her job from 1st June 1957 [ seo annexure C ( 2 ) lo 
tho C series ] . She also addressed another letter on 5th August 1957 to the Coal 
Mines Welfare Commissioner in which she expressed her apprehension that the 
management would appoint a new creche attendant when the creche was re 
started . ( Annexure E to the union s written statement ) . 


30 . It may be stated that even though the colliery resumed working in January 
1957, the management did not resume the working of the creche till October 
1957. 

31. Then followed the strike of September 1957 and by clause 9 of the agree 
ment of 22nd September 1957 , to which I have already referred the manage 
ment agreed to re - start the creche soon and to refer the case of Shrimati Uma 
Biswas to the Conciliation Officer whose decision was to be final, 


32 . On the re - starting of the colliery in October 1957 a new Creche Nurse was 
appointed on 18th October 1957. Then followed the incident of the alleged tres 
pass into the quarters of the new Nurse and the assault on her by Ghose and 
others on 3rd November 1957 and as I have stated earlier in that case all the 
accused were acquitted on 15th April 1957 by the 2nd Class Magistrate , Asansol , 
in case No. G . 2630 of 1957. Reading through the judgment in that case, it does 
appear , as contended by the Union , that that prosecution was launched at tho 
instance of the management. But to continue with the narration of the events , 
the management did not keep its undertaking to have Uma Biswas s case decid 
ed by the Concillation Officer and the conciliation having ended in failure, Go 
vernment was pleased to refer this dispute to adjudication . 


33 . The management contends that the claim put forward by the union that 
Shrimati Uma Biswas should be directed to be reinstated in service as her dis 
missal was illegal was out of the scope of the terms of the Government order 
of reference inasmuch as she had been dismissed for a certain misconduct and 
the case of the workman was that that dismissal was without justifcation and 
illegal as it was against the principles of natural justice and in violation of the 
standing orders ; that as she was dismissed on 18th July 1957 , the question of her 
reinstatement on the ground that the colliery had been re-opened could not arise , 
particularly when she was assured by the Manager s letter dated 12th August 
1957 that she would get all her dues including lay -off compensation . 

34 . I think thls contention of the management hos no real substance and had 
been put torward only with a view to further prolong and obstruct any final 
decision of Uma Biswas s case . It is admitted that the management did not give 
her any employment after the mine was re-opened in January 1957 and that 
when the colliery was closed on 27th September 1956 , the creche was also closed 
and Uma Biswas was also laid off . The subsequent events that followed and led 
to her dismissal flowed from the closure of the colliery on 27th September 1950 . 
In my opinion the question of her dismissal from service is covered by the refer 
ence as the question referred for adjudication is whether the refusal of the mang 
gement to re - employ her on re- starting of the colliery was improper and it so 
whether she should be reinstated or giyen any other alternative relier 

The reference was made by Government after her dismissal and in 
my opinion it covers the question whether her dismissal was proper or not 98 
one of the questions to be decided in this reference is whether she is entitled to 


. 


GA 


OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


(Part 1 


be reinstated in service . There would be no sense of reality and no Anality to 
the points under adjudication , if her dismissal subsequent to the re - opening of 
the colliery were not to be gone into and this enquiry were to be confined 
only to the events that occurred till the colliery was re -started in January , 1957. 


35 . Now , on the merits , it is admitted that the creche was closed down when 
the colllery was closed on 27th September 1956 and that the creche was not re 
opened when the colllery re - started working in January 1957. It is also admitted 
that Shrimati Uma Biswas was not given any employment from the date the 
colliery was closed down on 27th September 1956 , till she was dismissed by the 
company s letter dated 16th July 1957 . Now , it does appear from the correspon 
dence Annexure A scries that in August 1956 even prior to the closing of the 
colliery in September 1956 , there had been some trouble between the manage 
ment and Uma Biswas over the quarters to be provided to her. When she was 
employed she was provided accommodation in the creche building but the mana 
gement wanted her to shift to other quarters which according to her was not fit 
to be occupied by a single female as it was without any latrine , kitchen or bath 
room and had no compound wall or fencing. This matter had not been settled 
by the time the colliery was closed down and along with it the creche , in Sep 
tember 1956 . But it is not difficult to imagine that Uma Biswas had by then in 
curred the displeasure of the management over her refusal to occupy the new 
quarters . On the re -opening of the colliery , the creche was not re- started . 
Apart from the fact that this was clearly wrong , Uma Biswas was also not paid 
any compensation or her wages during the period the creche was closed . After 
the re -opening of the colliery in January 1957 the manager addressed a letter 
to her on 16th February 1957 asking her explanation for certain missing articles. 
By her letter dated 18th February 1957 she denied responsibility for the alleg 
ed missing articles . Thereafter nothing further was done for 5 months, during 
which the management did not pay her any wages , till by the manager s letter 
dated 16th July 1957 she was informed that her explanation was found unsatis 
factory and it was alleged that she has not seen the Director when asked to do 
SO and she was asked to collect hcr dues . It is admitted that no enquiry was 
held on that charge, if the letter of the manager dated 16th February 1957 may 
at all be called a charge sheet , even though she denied the charges . It is clear 
that this dismissal was in violation of the standing orders in force in the coal 
Industry and admittedly applicable to this colliery, which provide for a proper 
charge being framed and an enquiry being held , before a workman can be dis 
missed from service for any misconduct. Her dismissal was thus clearly illegal 
under the standing orders of the company and that is probably the reason why 
the management was so strenuously urging that the question of her dismissal 
should not be gone into . It is further relevant to note that during the period of 
5 months from the Manager s letter of 16th February 1957 and the order of dis 
missal dated 16th July 1957 she had made several representations to various 
authorities against her being kept out of employment (See Annexure 2 and An 
nexure A to C series to Annexure 34 of the Union s written statement) . She 
protested against this order of dismissal by her letter dated 5th August 1957 and 
after the strike of September 1957 under the agreement of 22nd September 1957 
the management agreed to refer her case to the Conciliation Omcer . Soon there 
after in October 1957 the creche was re - started and a new creche attendant was 
appointed . Then followed the criminal prosecution against Ghose and Bhar and 
others on the charges of having assaulted the new creche nurse . On the prctext 
of this case the management did not attend before the Conciliation Officer and 
he was unable to do anything . I cannot help stating that the management s 
cntire conduct in the case of Miss Uma Biswas has been thoroughly inala fide 
and that it had shown scant respect to the agreement which it entered into 
on 22nd September 1957. At least in the case of Miss Uma Biswas, I have not 
the Icast doubt that the management never intended , to honour that agreement, 
And that the conciliation was not effective because of the management s sad 
attitude 


In the circumstances. I ain satisfied that the refusal of the management to 
glve employment to Uma Biswas after the re - starting of the colllery in January 
1957 was improper and that her subsequent dismissal was illegal and unjustified 
and that she is entitled to be reinstated , 


I therefore direct that the company shall reinstate Shrimati Uma Biswas in 
service as a Creche attendant on her reporting for duty within 15 days from the 
date this award becomes enforceable , She will be entitled to continuity of her 
past services . I further direct that the management shall pay her wages (basic 
pay and Dearness allowance ) for the period from the date the colliery re - started 


Son 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


287 


in January 1957 till the date of her reinstatement. The amount shall be calçu 
lated and paid to her within a week from the date she reports for duty . 

As the union has succeeded substantially in this case , I direct the Company 
to pay the union Rs. 150 as costs . 

( Sd .) SALIM M . MERCHANT, 

Chairman . 
Dhanbad, the 29th December , 1958 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 

[ No . LRII/ 2 ( 34 ) / 58.] 
New Delhi, the 17th January 1959 
S . O . 202. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
Shri Salim M , Merchant, Chairman , Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the B . N . 
Mondal s Deoli Colliery and their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor 
Sangh . 
BEFORE SHRI SALIM M , MERCHANT, CHAIRMAN , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 
INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD - ARBITRATOR 

REFERENCE No. 30 OF 1958. 
Employers in relation to B . N . Mondal s 

Deoll Colliery 


AND 
Their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 
Re: Arbitration under section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

(Act XIV of 1947 ). 
APPEARANCES ; 
Shri D . L . Sen Gupta , Advocate with Shri Kanti Metha, Vice President, and 

Shri R . N . Sharma, M . L . A ., General Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , 

Dhanbad , - for the workmen . 
Shri D . Narsingh , Advocate , and later Shri B . N . Mondal, Partner , Mesero 

B . N . Mondal & Co - for the employers . 
State : West Bengal 

Industry: Coal 


AWARD 
By an arbitration agreement dated the 7th February, 1958, made under sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (XIV of 1947 ) , the 
employers in relation to B . N . Mondal s Deoli Colllery and the workmen of that 
colliery as represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , referred the Industrial dis 
pute in respect of the following matters specified in the said agreement to my 
arbitration ; 
" Whether the closure of Deoli Colliery justified and to what relief the work 

men are entitled ." 
2 . After the said arbitration agreement was signed the Government of India , 
Ministry of Labour and Employment, by Order No : LRIL - 1 ( 2 ) / 58 , dated the 12th 
May , 1958 in pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act 1947 (XIV of 1947 ) was pleased to publish the said arbitration agrcement 

3 . Thereafter notices were issued by me upon the parties to file their respertive 
written statements The Colliery Mazdoor Sangh Aled Its written statement on 
20th June, 1958 , and the employers Alled written statement in reply thereto on 21st 
July , 1958. 

4. The dispute was thereafter taken up for hearing at Dhanbad and after being 
part heard , at the hearing on the 26th December , 1958 on the joint application of 
the parties , the hearing was adjourned to the 5th January, 1959 to be heard at 
Calcutta by consent of the parties. At the hearing on the 5th January , 1959, the 
parties Aled before me the terms of settlement which had been reached between 
them and prayed that an award be made in terms thereof. A copy of the said 


to publisition 102 072*2)/ 58, matat 


288 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


PART II 


terms of settlement is annexed hereto and marked Annexure A , As I am satisfied 
that on the facts and circumstances of the case the terms of settlement are fair 
and reasonable , I make an award in terms of that settlement which shall form 
part of this award . This arbitration award is submitted to Government as re 
quired by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947) . 

Enci : Annexure A . 
Dated , the 6th January , 1959. 

( Sd .) SALIM M . MERCHANT, 

Chairman , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

Arbitrator, 
BEFORE THE ARBITRATOR SHRI SALIM M , MERCHANT, CHAIRMAN , 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 
Arbitration under section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (Act XIV or 
1947 ) in respect of the industrial dispute between B . N . Mondal s Deoli Colliery and 
their workmen as represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , 

AND 

Re : Reference No. 30 of 1958 . 
Sir , 

We, the parties to the above industrial dispute , have reached the following 
settlement and pray that an Award be made by you in terms thereof; 

1. The management agrees to reinstate all permanent workers in their former 
posts by 15th March , 1959 on their reporting themselves for duty by that date . 

2 . A list of unemployed temporary workers category -wise and in accordance 
with seniority will be prepared in consultation with the Union by 15th March , 1950 
and all future vacancies will be filled up after giving preference to the senior -most 
in the list . 

3 . The management agrees to pay Rs. 30 ,000 / - ( Rupees Thirty thousand ) as lay 
oft compensation to be distributed equally between all the workmen who were on 
the muster roll of the Deoli Colliery on 26th December , 1957, except those who 
continued to work during the period of lay off from 27th December , 1957 to 5th 
May, 1958 . The payment as stated above shall be made by the management in 
consultation with Shri R . N . Sharma, President , and Shri Sfatick Banerjee, Secro 
tary , the Deoli Branch of the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh in one Instalment on or be 
fore 15th March , 1959. 

4 . In case of permanent as well as temporary workery , the period of thelr In 
voluntary idleness should be treated as period of lay -off and full attendance for 
the said period should be taken into consideration for the purpose of bonus and 
angual leave. 

5 . All payments of lay - off compensation and bonus in terms of clauses 3 and 4 
above shall be completed by 16th March , 1959 . 

8 . In addition to the costs for adjournment already paid , the management agrees 
to pay Rs. 1 ,500 ( Rupees one thousand and five hundred ) as the costs of this 
arbitration to the Colllery Mazdoor Sangh on or before 15th March , 1959 . 
Parties pray that an Award be made and published in terms of this agreement, 

For and on behalf of B . N . Mondal s 

Deoli Colllery . 
In the presence of : 

(Sd ) Illegible 
Calcutta : 
5 - 1 - 1959 

B . N . MONDAL , Partner 

For and on behalt of the Colliery Mazdoor Sangte 
In the presence of: 
( Sd ) Illegible 

KANTI MEHTA , Vice-President. 
Calcutta : 

Taken on File 
5 - 1 -1959 . 

( Sd .) SALIM M . MERCHANT , 

Calcutta , 6 - 1 - 1 . 56 . 
[No. LRII- 1 ( 2 ) 58. ) 


sta $ ( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 / MAGHA 4, 1880 


289 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 15th January 1959 
S . O , 203. - -Whereas the Joint Working Committee of the Indian Mining 
Association , Indian Mining Federation and Indian Colllery Owners Association 
has raised a doubt relating to the interpretation of the Award of All India Indus. 
trial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes ) published in the Gazette of India Extraordi 
nary Part II Section 3 , dated the 26th May, 1956 vide S . R . O . 1224, dated the 18th 
May , 1956 , as modified by the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal dated 
the 29th January , 1957 ; 

And whereas in the opinion of the Central Government, a doubt has arisen as 
to the correct interpretation of paragraph 74 of the said decision of the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal on the questions specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 - A and sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 36 A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri F . 
Jeejeebhoy , Chairman , Labour Appellate Tribunal, as the Presiding Officer with 
headquarters at Calcutta and refers the said questions for decision to the said 
Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
(i ) Whether the additional dearness allowance of Rs. 4 - 14 - 0 per mensem 

is payable in the succeeding half year for every rise of 10 points over 

102 in the average of the monthly figures of the All India Average 

Consumer Price Index Numbers in the preceding half year ? 
(ii ) If not, what should be the basis for the payment of the increased dear 

ness allowance ? 
( iii ) What should be the basis for reducing the increased dearness allowance 
once granted ? 

[No. LRI- 3 ( 21 ) / 58 .] 


S . O . 204 ,- - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to M / S . Bikaner Gypsums Ltd ., 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Delhi constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
1 . Whether the termination of the services of Sarvashri Noora (Chowkidar ) , 

Nathu (Mazdoor ) and Narsi Ram (Mazdoor ) is justificd , and if not, 

to what relief they are cntitled . 
2 . Whether Sarvashri Chuni Lal, Yaqub Khan Teli, Sugna Meghwal, Kana , 

Bhuro and Hakoo Teli were working in the mines as village piece 
workers immediately before 1st October, 1958, and if so , whether 
the management is justified in refusing them employment as village 
piece workers after the said date and if not, to what relief they are 

entitled. 
3 . Whether the termination of services of Sarvashri Abdul ( Driver B ) 

Om Parkash (Acting Clerk ) and Narpat Singh ( Sampler ) is justifi 
ed , and if not , to what relief they are entitled . 

[ NO. LRII -64 (14 ) / 58 – 1.] 


New Delhi, the 17th January 1959 


S . O . 205 . — Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that an indus 
trlal dispute exists between the employers in relation to the New Jemohari Khas 
Colliery , P . O . Jaykaynagar, Burdwan , and their workmen in respect of the matter 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication ; 


290 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


[PART I 


= 


= 


NOW , THEREFORE , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the sald dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbud , 17stituted under section 7A of the said Act , 

THE SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of New Jemehari Khas Colliery were justified in 
dismissing Shri Ramchandra Ahir and , if not, to what relief is he entitled ? 

(No . LRII -2 (98) /58 . ) 


S . O . 206 . - Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that an indus 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Upper Kajora Colliery , 
P . O . Kajoragram , Burdwan , and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
In the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And Whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
· dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , Therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


THE SCHEDULE 


Whether the dismissal of Shri Chandradco Singh , Depot Guard , was justified , 
and If not, to what relief is he entitled ? 

(No. LRII- 2 (99 ) / 58. ] 


S . O . 207. — Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that an indus 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Saunda Colliery of 
M / S . Bird and Co. ( P ) Ltd . and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule bereto annexed ; 

AND WHEREAS, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication ; 

NOW , THEREFORE , In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the dismissal of Sarvashri Subeylal, Underground Munshi, Barho Ram 
trammer (Looseman ) , Sothan Singh , Coal Cutting Machine Cooly and Ramnidhi, 
Drillman , was justified , and if not to what relief are they entitled ?. 

[No. LRII / 2 ( 122 )58. ] 


S . O . 208 . Whereas the Punjab and Sind Bank Limited , Dehra Dun , has raised 
a point relating to the interpretation of the award of the All- India Industrial 
Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ) , Bombay , constituted by the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S . R . O . 35 , dated the 
5th January, 1952 , as modified by the decision of the Labour Appcllate Tribunal in 
the manner referred to in section 3 of the Industrial Disputes (Banking Companies ) 
Decision Act , 1955 (41 of 1955 ) ; 


And whereas the Central Government is of opinion that a difficulty or doubt 
has arisen as to the interpretation of paragraph 538 of the said award in respect 
of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 6 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby refers the said matter 
for decision to Shri F , Jeejeebhoy , Chairman , Labour Appellate Tribunal, consti 
tuted under section 5 of the Industrial Disputes ( Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950 
(48 of 1950 ) . 


SEC 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 

201 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 

= 
SCHEDULE 
Whether the expression language area of the person so transferred occurring 
in the second sentence of paragraph 536 of the Award of the All- India Industrial 
Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ) constituted by the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour No). S .RO . 35 , dated the 5th January , 1952 , modified 
as aforesaid , is synonymous rolli thi Lip ? sion language areas in which an em 
ployee has been serving OLLring in the ulurd sentence of the said paragraph 
and , if not , whether a member of the subordinate stall serving outside the area of 
hiy language (mother tongue ) can be transferred to the area of his language 
(mother tongue ) . 


[No. LRII-10 ( 136 ) / 58. ] 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 19th January 1959 
$ . 0 . 209 . In the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Employment S . O . 2484 published on page 2617 of the Gazette of India , Part 
II, Section 3 ( ii ) dated the 29th November , 1958 , for the words " Noodit Jitpur 
Collery " , wherever they occur, read " Noonodih - Jitpur Colllery " , 

No. ( No . LRII- 2 ( 157) / 58.] 
K . D . HAJELA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 14th January 1959 


8 . 0 . 210 ,- Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that having regard 
to the terms and conditions of service applicable to the undermentioned classes of 
employces in the scheduled employment viz ., employment in building operations, 
It is not necessary to fix minimum wages in respect of such classes of employees: 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 - A ) of 
section 26 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( 11 of 1948 ) , the Central Government 
hercby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall not apply in relation to 
the said classes of employees , 

1. Overseas Communications Service. 
(1) Carpenters 
( ii) Junior Painters 
( 111) Mazdoors 
( iv ) Masons 
( v ) Sweepers 
( vi ) Electrical Fitter 
( vil) Mistry 

2 . Telegraph Work shops at Calcutta and Jabalpur . 
( 1) Masons 
( 11 ) Mazdoors 
( lii) Fitter (General) Grade I. 

3. Telephone workshops at Bombay . 
( 1) Masons 
( ii) Mazdoors 
( iii) Fitter (General) Grade I. 

[ No . LWI- 1-8 (5) / 57.] 
K . N . NAMBIAR, Dy, Secy . 


292 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


[PART ID 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 19th January 1959 


S . O . 211. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73- F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government here 
by exempts for a further period of one year with effect from the 22nd January , 
1959, from the payment of the employer s special contribution leviable under 
Chapter V - A of the said Act , every factory wherein ten or more persons are not 
employed , or were not employed at any time during the preceding twelve months, 
by the principal employer directly or by or through an immediate employer , even 
though twenty or more persons are or were working in the premises . 


(No. HI- 6 (98 ) / 59 . ) 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 15th January 1959 


s . O . 212 . — The Central Government hereby : ( a ) directs, in pursuance of 
the provisions of the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Informa 
tion and Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 3805 dated the 26th December , 1955 and in 
modification of the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Informa 
tion and Broadcasting No. S . O . 2683 dated the 19th December , 1958 that the 
Advisory Pancl of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay shall consist of 
of 31 members with immediate effect ; and 


( b ) appoints , after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors , the 
following persons as members of Advisory Panel of the said Board at Bombay 
with immediate cffect in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 3 ) of 
rule 8 rcad with sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 
1958 : 


1. Shri Ratan Lal Joshi 
2. Shri M . A . Razzaq 
3. Shri Murli Thakur 


[No. 14/3 /57- FC.) 
D . R . KHANNA, Under Secy. 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- - - 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 


New Delhi, the 8th October 1958 


S . O , 213 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of the Constitu 
tion , the President herebymakes the following rules regulating the method of recruitment to certain 
Class III posts under the Office of thc All India Handloom Boad, Bombay , namely : 


I. Those rules may be called the All India Handloom Board Recruitment to Class III 
posts Rules , 1958 . 


S . $ (ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /NAGHA 4, 1880 


293 


2 . These rulcs shall apply for recruitment to posts specified in column 1 of the schedule to 

these rules and the present number of posts , the clarification thereof and the scale of 

pay shall be specifled in column 2 to 5 of the said Schedule . 
3 . The method of recruitment, the age limit and qualifications for recruitment to the said 

posts and other matters relating thereto shall be as in column 6 to 15 of the aforesaid 
Schedule . 


[No. 3 (48) - Tex ( c ) / 58 . ) 


294 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959/MAGHA 4, 1886 


(PART II 


Nuine of 
post 


Office of tho Tortilo 

Starement to be adopted for isolated posts for which 
Ils Classification , Scale of Dulies No . of Percentage of posts to be filled by 
wholher Gazetted pay 

posts 
or Non - Gazetted, 
whcther Ministerial 

Direct Promotion 
or Non -Ministerial 

re 

Trans 
cruit 

By for 
ment Selec Seni 

tion ority 

cum 
fitness 


4 


3 
Non-Gazetted Class 250 - 10 
III Non -Ministerial. 300 - 15 

450 . 


5 6 7 8 9 
I By Direct recruitment only. 


Artist 


Inspector 

Grade 1. 


Do. 


Do. 


.. 


26 By promotion falling , which by 

direct recruitment . 


Sc ( )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 


295 


= 


= 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - - - - 


- 


-- 


Commissioner , Bombay . 
Autailed recruitment Rullos are not necessary 


For Direct recruitinent only For promotion Transfer only Composition of De 

- - - - partmental Promo 
Agc Educational qualifica Period Whether Cadrel tion Commillee 
limit tion 

of Pro - age and cd Source 
bation , ucational from which 
if any qualification promotion / 

prescribed transfer 
for direct are to be 
recruitment made 
will apply 
in case of 
appoint 
ment by 
promotion 

transfer 
IO 

II 

12 

13 
28 years Essential : Pass in Matri - 6 

Secretary Handloom 
culation . Diploma in months. 

Board , Industrial 
Printing or Freehand 

Adviser ( Textile 
Drawing, from a re 

Production ), & 
cognised School of Art, 

Under Secietary 
experience of organisirg 

(Establishment ) as 
exhibitions, display of 

members . Approval 
models etc . for a period 

of thc Textilc Com 
of not less than 2 years . 

missioner is neces 
Desirable : Ability to 

sary before any ap 
prepare charts and ar 

pointments are made. 
ranging for display of 

advertisements , 
28 years For the posts in Publicity 6 ( The cduca - The Inspec Ditto . 
Branch 

months . tional tor Gr. II 
Essential : (1) Pang i n 

qualifica or Techni 
Matriculation . 

tiona pre cal Assis 
( ii) Experience in publi 

scribed for tant Grade 
city work for at least 3 

direct re II . 
years , 

cruitment 
(111 ) Experience in or 

will apply 
ganising exhibition in 

to promo 
cluding erection and 

tees also 
management of stalls. 

but not 
Desirable ; (i ) Degree 

the age 
in Arts or Science of a 
recognised University . 
(it) Experience of hav 
ing worked in an ad 
vertising consultants 
office for a period of not 
less than 3 years . 
(iii) Experience of 
office routine. 
(iz ) Knowledge of local 
language , 
For other posts : ( i) De 
gree or Diploma in 
Textile Technology. In 
the latter casc thc candi 
dates should also be a 
Matriculate . 
( ii) Experience 
knowlcdge of saleability 
of different types of 
cloths in different parts 
of the country . 
(iii) Practical know 
ledge of handloom in 
dustry . 
( iv ) Knowledge of ex 
port trade desirable . 


limit 
; 


296 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1969/MAGHA 4, 1880 


[PART II 


Ι 


I 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


Inspector 

Giade II . 


Non -Gazetted Class 160- 10 

III -Non - M : nister- 330. 


By promotion falling which 

by direct recruitment. 


jal. 


Do . 


. 


Inspector 
Grade II. 


3 


160- 10 . 
330 . 


100 % 
by dir 

ect. 
cruit 
ment. 


Draftsman 


Draftsman 


I By direct recruitment. 


- 


100 - 5 
120 - 6 
155 - EB 
6 - 185. 


1358B 


. . 


Technical 
Superin - 
tendent. 


Non -Gazetted Clays 
III Non -Ministcrial. 


300 - 20 - 
400 


3 No percentage is fixed as the posts 

& re principally filled by sclection 
from qualified departmental 
candidates failing which by 
direct recruitment, 


297 


TO 


SEC. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 
II 

13 1313 

14 
( 0 ) Should be prepared 
to undertake extensive 
touring work , 


- - _ 


15 


6 


28 years . Ditto . 

Secretary Handloon 
months , 

Board , Industrial 
Adviser ( Textile 

Production ), and 
25 years Ist Class Degree in -Ma 

Under Secretary 
relaxa thematics , Statistics or 

(Estt. ) as members . 
hle in Economics or a 2ndd 

Approval of the Tex 
Case of Clas , M . A , in one of 

tile Commissioner 13 
Sched these subjects. Pre 

necessary before any 
uled ference will be given to 

appoinonents are 
Caytes / persons possessing a 

made 
Sched 

Diploma from the Sta 
ulcd tistical Institute , Cal 
Tribcs, cutta , 6 months . 

Ditto . 
displaced 
persons 
and nther 
special 
cate 
Bosies in 
accor 
dance 
with the 
General 
orders 
Issued 
from 
time to 
time 
by the 
Guvern 
ment of 

India , 
28 years. Matriculation or its equi- 6 

Do, 
(Relax - valent with a Diploma monthy. 
ablein in Drawing preferably 
the CASC with previous experience 
uf can as Draftsman . 
didates 
with 
con 
sider 
ablc ex 
perience ). 
33 years . Degree /Diploma in Tex - 6 Educational From T . A . Secretary (Handloom , 
(Relax - tile Technclogy from a [months, qualifica - Gr. I . T . A . Board ), 
ablu in regignised University / 

tions apply Gr. I1, In - Hon . Adviser (De 
excer Institution , Should 

in the casc spector Gr. I signs), Under Sec 
tional have worked in a hand 

ofpromo and Inspec- retary ( Estt.) and such 
cases . loon weaving establish 

tees but not tor Gr. II , of the officers in 
ment for a period of 5 

the age if suitable this organisation 18 
years in & responsible 

limit . 

candidates would be co -opted . 
capacity . Should be 

with the 
able to handle weayers . 

required 
Should be conversant 

qualifica 
with the manufacture 

tions Are 
of handloom fabrics in 

Available . 
different designs in 
volving the line of 
usual appliances . Sho 
uld be conversant witli 
austing methods . Kn 
owledge of desiguing , 
Dyeing and Printing 
desirable . 


298 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA · JANUARY 24 , 1969 MAGNA 4, 1880 


PART I 


- - - 


-S 


S 


= 


" - AYAAN 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


4 


By direct recruitment . 


Art Desi- Non -Gazetted Class 250 - 10 
gner (tor II Non -Ministerial. 300 - 15 
one post 

450 
cach ut 
Bombay , 
Madras , 
Banaras and 
Calcutta , 


Do. 


Do, 


250 - 10 

300 - 15 
450 . 


Art Dc 
signer ( for 
one post 
each At 
Bombay , 
Варягая 8 
Calcutta , 


Do. 


. 


3 


Do, 


Dezigner 
(Naksha 
maker ) 


250 - 10 - 
300 - 15 
450 


Do . 


Do 


Photogra 

pher . 


250 - 10 

300 
15 
450 . 


SEC 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1969 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


299 


Io 


10 


11 


12 


12 


13 


14 


IS 


33 years . Should be able to read 6 
(Relax - and write the Regional montnt 
able in language , Must have 
excep - 10 years ex 
tional 

perience in design work 
caset .) in handloom weaving 

dentres and in Naksha 
making and be capable of 
transferring sketch de 
signs on to graph paper. 


Secretary (Handloom 
Board ), Hon . Ad 
viser (Designs), Un 
der Secretary (Estt.) 
and such of officers 
in this organisation 
29 would be co 
opted 


Do. 


Do . 


6 
months, 


Should be able to read 
and write the Regional 
language . Must have 
5 years experience in 
the collection and re 
search on Designs and in 
the field of folk art in 
handloom Craft centres . 


Do . 


Do , 


Should be able to read 6 
& write the Regional months. 
language , Knowledge 
of designing for hand 
In industry . Know 
ledge of translating de 
signs on to point paper. 
IO years expcrience in 
preparing Designy suit 
able for woven fabrics 
and in transferring the 
designs to point paper 
out of which at least 3 
years experience should 
he in practical designs 
work in the styles of de 
sign prevalent in the 
locality where the cen 
tre is located . Qualifi 
cations relaxable in 
the case of hereditary 
Weaver Designers skilled 
cd in designing fabrics 
prevalent iħ the locality 
where the centre 18 
located . 


D . , 


DO 


Must be an expert Photo 

grapher. Candidates months, 
should be able to take 
photoprints of new de 
signs & should be pre 
pared to travel exten 
sively . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


[PART II 


Dyer 


Non -Gazetted Class 
III Non - Ministerial. 


. . 


3 


By direct recruitment, 


250 - 10 
300 
IS 
450 . 


Fattori 

Maker 


Do. 


. 


3 


Do. 


250 - 10 
- 300 
IS 
450 , 


SEG. 9 (II)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 


301 


- 


- 


10 


IL 


1 


12 


13 


14 


IS 


15 


- 


-- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


+ 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


33 yrs, 
(Relax - 
able in 
excep - 
tional 
cases. ) 


Secruly (Handloom 
Board ), Hon . \ 1 
Viver ( Designs ), Un 
der Secretary ( Estt. ) 
and Sullt of Hicers 
in this organisrtion 
at would be co 
optec , 


Degree of Diploma of a 6 
rccognised Technical munths 
Institution in Textile 
Chemistry 
Chemistry , Dyeing 
and other processing. 
In the case of Diploma 
holders , they should 
also he Matriculates . 
Technical qualifica 
tions are relaxable in 
the case of candidates 
who are liereditary dyers 
with considerablc skill 
of the locality where the 
centre is situated ; should 
be familiar with dyeing 
of fabrics like cotton , 
silk , rayon and wool ; 
should have at least 5 
yrs. cxperience as a Dyer 
handling majority of 
these fabrics. Experience 
of handling yarn in small 
lots . Special consider 
ation will be given to 
candidates with know 
ledge of vegetabile dye 
ing . 


Do, 


10. 


I. Matriculation or its 6 
cquivalent. 2 . Diploma months 
or certificate of a recog 
niscd Institution in Tex 
tile Manufacture . Both 
relaxable in the case of 
hereditary artisans, skil 
led in working jacquard 
and in the production of 
atyles of designs preve 
lent in the locality where 
the centre is situated . 
Holders of Diploma or 
certificate in Textile 
Manufacture must have 
at least 5 yrs, experience 
in translating point pa 
per designs on the fab 
rics , in guiding weayers 
and helping them wcave 
new designs. In the 
case of hereditaty arti 
sans in whose casc tech 
nical qualifications are 
to be waived , the period 
of cxpcrience will be to 
yrs. on the same lines , 
Experience in harness 
building, card cutting 
and Jacquard work es 
sential, 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


302 


[PART II 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 /MAGHA 4 , 1880 

- - - - = 
3 4 5 6 7 


I 


8 


9 


Rs . 


Assistant 
Desiguer 


Non -Gazetted Class 
III Non -Ministerial, 


, 


I 


By direct recruitment 


250 - 10 - 
300 

IS 
450 


Expert 

Weaver 


Do. 


Do. 


250 - 10 
300 
15 


4.50 


Do. 


160-10 

-330 . 


1603790. - 


.. 


18 


18 


Do. 


Do. 


Weaver ( for 

the De 
sign Cen 
tre at 
Kanchi 
puram , 
Surat and 
Chanderi 


Do. 


160 -10 

-330 


. 


26 


Do, 


Weaver ( for 

the designs 
Centre at 
Bombay , 
Madras, 
Calcutta 
and 
Banaras ) 


UMS 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : j.\ NUARY 24, 1959/MAGHA 4, 1880 


303 


ŠEC. $ (ii)] 
-- - - -- - 

10 


II 


11 


12 


12 


13 


14 


15 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - - - - - - 


- - - - - 


28 yrs . 
( Relax - 
ablc in 
сxccp 
tional 
cases .) 


Secretary (Handloom 
Board ) Hon . Ad 
viser (Designs ), 
Under Secretary 
(Estt.) and such of 
the Officers in this 
organisation as would 
be co - opted . 


I . Matriculate , ( 2 ) Dip - 6 

loma or certificate of a months 
recognised institution in 
Textile Manufactusc . 
( 3 ) Ability to prepare 
designs suitable for 
woven fabrica & to trans 
fer the designs to graph 
paper making the nature 
of weave indicating loom 
cquipment . ( 4 ) Experi 
ence in practical designs 
work for at least 3 years, 
( 5 ) Training and experi 
ence in co - operation 
desired . 
Must bc hcreditary wca 
vers with considerable months 
skill in his craft. Candi 
date must be able to carry 
out Technical Rescarch 
and to cvolve new tech 
niques of Production , to 
conduct cxperiment on 
the manufacture of old 
traditional types of fab 
rics & on the production 
of new designs , and to 
wcave different types of 
fabrics with designs. 


Do. 


33 yrs. 
(Relax - 
ablc in 
excep 
tional 
cases .) 


Do . 


. 


. 


Do. 


Do. 


Should be able to rçad & 6 
write the Regional lun - months 
guage. Should be here 
ditary weavers from 
the locality where the 
centre has to be estab 
lished with at least 10 
years working on Hand 
loom in that area , Ex 
perience in handloom 
weaving , weaving 
preparatory & finishing 
processes . Experience 
of weaving, type of fab 
rics of that locality ; Can 
didates should have skill 
and initiative to weave 
new designs, qualifica 
tions relaxable in the 
çaşc of suitable heredi 
tary weavers . 


Do. 


Onths 


.. 


. 


Do. 


Candidute should be able 6 
to read and write in Re- montlis 
yional Language , Can 
didates should be a wca 
ver with at least 10 years 
experience in the requi 
red styles of landloom 
wcaving, weaving pre 
paratory and finishing 
processes . Knowledge 
of tcxtile designing de 
sirable . 


304 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : JANUARY 21, 1959,MAGIIA 1. 1880 


( PART II 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


-- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Block 

Printer 


Non Gazetted Cliss 
III Non -Ministerial, 


. . 


160 - 10 
- 330 


Ey direct recruitinent, 


Do. 


Fancy 

Jobber 


i 


100 % 


Do. 


87 - 5 * 
120 - EB 
8 - 200 
IO 2 - 220 


Sizer 


Do. 


Do . 


60 -31 
85- EB 
- 4 - 125 
5 - 130 


Notl . - Age limit, cducational qualifications, the penod of previous experience etc., ale rclax 

tioned in the statement. 
Wrousst weavers in the preparatory processes m4wly weaving , drawing , in and typing of 
Relaxablc in cayc of Scne fule 1 Castel Tribes , displaced person and other special categories 

Toize warpi, dress and beam them ; t ) size cotton yarn in hink forms to assist 


Sec. § (ii)] 


I HE GAZE I I E OF INDIA : JANUARY 21, 1959 /MAGHIA 4, 1880 


505 

-- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


| 


10 


II 


11 


I2 


12 


13 


13 


14 


14 


IS 


33 yrs . Candidate should have 6 

Secretury (Handloom 
(Relax considerable experi- montlis 

Board Hon . Ad 
ablc in ence in Block Printing, 

viser (Designs), 
except Screen Printing and Dis 

Uder Secretary 
tional charge Printing in silk 

Estt. ) & such of the 
cascs .) etc . For one of the 

Officeas in this 
posts persons familiar 

organisation as would 
with resist and indigo 

bo co -opted . 
process of Printing will 
bc necessary . Hercdı 
tary Chippas with know 
ledge and experience in 
Block Printing, Scrceii 
printing and Discharge 
printing will be given 

preference . 
+ 33 ycars Candidate should be able 6 

Thc Secretary , All 
to read and writc in his months 

India Handloom 
regional language . 

Board , Bombay . The 
Should have experience 

Director (Designs ) 
of at least five years in 

and any officer 
prcparatury processes of 

from the Design 
handloom weaving , par 

Centre who may 
ticularly in preparing 

hc Co -Opted as a 
warps , drawing in throu 

member of the 
gh healds and reeds and 

Committce . 
in typing up harnesses . 
Heredilary artisans 
with cxpcrience in war 
ping , drawing in througlı 
healds and recds and 
in typing up harnesses 
will be given preference . 
Age limit , cducational 
qualifications, the 
period of previous expe 
rience etc ., are relaxable 
in special cases by the 
Head of the depart 

ment . 
+ 33 years Candidate should be able 6 

Do, 
to read and write in his inonths 
regional language . 
Should have at least 
5 years experience in 
sizing cotton warp and 
yarn and in dressing and 
beaming warps. Hcre 
ditary artisans with ex 
perience in sizing and 
in preparing warps will 
be given preference . Agc 
limit , cducational quali 
fications, the period of 
previous experiencc etc ., 
are relaxable in special 
cases by the Hcad of the 

Departinent. 
ablc in special cases by the Head of the Department in respect of all the posts men 


harnesses, 
in accordance with the genral orders issued from time to timeby the Government of India . 
in warping 

(No. 3 (48 )- Tex ( C )/58 .] 
M . S. SADASIVAN ," Under Secy. 


- - - - - 


- 


306 THE GAZŁTIE OF INDÍA . JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4, iyeu [Part ti 

- - - - - - - - - - - - 
New Delhi, the 16th January 1959 
S . O . 214 / IDRA / 6 / Am . ( 1 ). — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 
of the Industries (Development & Regulation ) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951) , the Central 
Government hereby appoins Shri S . R . Kalwar, I. L . S ., Secretary to the Government 
of mvuaras, Department of Industries , Labour, and Cooperation Department, 
Madras, and Snri P . D . hasbekar , 1. A . S ., Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies 
( Sugar ) , Poona , as members of the Development Council for Sugar Industry with 
wirect Irom 31st December , 1958 , and makes the following amendments in the 
Order of the Government of India , 11 the Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
NO, S . R . O , 2002, dated the 24th September, 1958 , namely :-- 
In the said order - after entry No. 19 , the following entries shall be inserted , 

namely : 
19A . Shri S. R . Kalwar, I. C . S ., Secretary, to the Government of Madras , 

Industries, Labour & Cooperation Department, Madras. 
19B , Shri P , D . Kasbekar, I. A . S ., Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies 
( Sugar ) , Poona , 

[No, 4 (41) IA ( II ) (G ) / 58 .] 
A . K , CHAKRAVARTI, Under Secy . 


Bombay , the 17th January 1959 
S . O . 215 . In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub - clause ( 1 ) of 
clause 3 of the Cotton Control Order , 1955 , I hereby direct that the following 
further amendment shall be made in the Textile Commissioner s NotiAcation No . 
S . O . 2076 , dated the 27th August, 1958 , namely 

In the said Notification , for Schedule B the following shall be substituted 
pamely : 

" SCHEDULE B " 
Shri R . G . Saraiya . 

Shri Gatulal Rangildas . 
Shri Dwarkadas Jamnadas. 

Shri R . B . Desal. 
Snri A , B , Wadia . 

Mr. A . Mueller . 
Shri Jehangir P , Patel. 

Shri R . D , Shah . 

( Sd . ) D . S , JOSHI, 

Textile Commissioner . 
[No. F . 24 (44) Tex . ( A ) / 57. ] 
V . V , NENE, Under Secy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 20th January 1959 
S . O . 216 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of raw 
( Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951) read with rules 3 and 4 of 
the Central Advisory / Council ( Procedural) Rules, 1952, the Central Government 
hereby appoints the following persons to be members of the Central Advisory 
Council, namely : 

1. Minister for Commerce and Industry - Chairman . 
To represent the interests of owners of Industrial undertakings in sche 

duled Industries . 
2 . Shri Kamalanayan Bajaj. M .P ., 2 , Hardinge Avenue, New Delhi. 
3. Shri K . Kumar Birla , 8, India Exchange Place, Calcutta - 1. 
4 . Shri Kasturbhai Lalbhal, Pankore s Naka , Ahmedabad . 
5 . Shri B . M . Chinai, M .P ., The National Rayon Corporation Ltd ., Ewart 

House , Bruce Street, Fort , Bombay - 1 . 
6 . Lala Charat Rum , The Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd ., Bara 

Hindu Rao , P . B . No. 1039 , Delhi. 
7. Prof. M . P . Gandhi, Nanabhay Mansion , Sir P . M . Road, Fort, Bombay - - 1 . 


SEC . 8 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24 , 1959 / MAGHA 4 , 1880 

307 

- -- - - - - - - - - - -- - = - 
8 . Shri G . D . Birla, 8 , India Exchange Place , Calcutta - 1. 
9. Shri R . Venkataswamy Naidu , Peclamedu P .O ., Coimbatore. 
10 . Shri S . L . Kirloskar , Bungalow No. 1, Modi Baug, Ganeshkhind Road , 

Poona - 5 . 
11. Shri V . Ramakrishna , 55, Peters Road , Madras — 6 . 
12 . Dr . Vikram A . Sarabhai, Chidambaram , Ahmedabad - 13 
13 . Dr. R . R . Hattlangadi, Cement Agencies (Private ) Ltd ., Mge . Agents, The 

Associated Cement Co. Ltd ., Cement House , 121 , Queen s Road , 

Bombay - 1 . 
To represent the interests of persons employed in industrial undertakings 

in scheduled industries - - 
14 . Shri S . R . Vasavada , President. I.N . T .U C .. Textile Labour Association , 

Gandhi Majdoor Sevalaya, Bhadra , Ahmedabad . 
15 . Mr. Michael Jhon , President, Tata Workers Union , 17 , K Road . 

Jamshedpur. 
16 . Shri Bagram Tulpule, General Secretary , Hind Mazdoor Sabha . Servant 

of India Society s Home, Sardar Patel Road . Bombay - 4 . 
To represent the interests of consumers of goods manufactured or pro 

duced by scheduled industries 
17. Shri B . C. Ghose , M P ., 63 / 1, Mahanirvan Road , Calcutta - 29 . 
18 . Shrimati Kamladevi Chattopadhyaya, Chairman , All -India Handicrafts 

Board , Queensway ( A ) Barracks, New Delhi. 
19 . Shri Asoka Mehta , MP., 5 , Dadyseth Road ; Babulnath , Bombay — 7 . 
20. Shri Mangtu Ram Jaipurla , Swadeshi House , Kanpur. 
21. Pt. H . N . Kunzru , Servants of India Society , 18 , Ferozshah Road , New 

Delhi, 
To represent other interests including primary producers 
22 . Shri A , Ramaswami Mudaliar, M . P ., " India Steamship House " , 21, Old 

Court House Street , Calcutta - 1 . 
23 . Shri M . A . Chidambaram Chettiar, " Chettinad House " , Adayar, Madras. 
24 . Shri N . D . Sahukar , Chairman , The All - India Manufacturers Organisa 

tion , 4th Floor, Co - operative Insurance Building . Sir Pherozshah 

Mehta Road , Fort , Bombay - 1 . 
25 . Dr. V . K . R . V . Rao , Vice - Chancellor, University of Delhi, Delhi- - 8 
26 . Prof . M S . Thacker . Council of Scientific and Industrial Research , Old 

Mill Road , New Delhi. 
And ( b ) one other member to be hereafter specified by the Central Government 

who will be a persons capable of representing the interests of persons 
employed in industrial undertakings in scheduled industries. 

( No. 1 (17) IA ( II) (G )/ 58.] 
K . C. MADAPPA , Dy. Secy . 


23 . She Ni Dah Floofort, Bot 


And (b ) ontho will han indust 


(Department of Company Law Administration ) 

New Delhi, the 13th January 1959 
S . O . 217 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clausc ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of the Section 448 of the Companies Act, 1956 ( I of 1956 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby appoints Shri B . Mopuri Reddy , III Deputy Registrar of the 
High Court of Mysore, Bangalore , to be the ex -oſicio , Omcial Liquidator attached 
to Mysore High Court with cffect from the date he assumes charge until further 
orders . 

[No. 15 ( 9 ) - Admn. / 58 .] 


New Delhi, the 14th January 1959 
S . O . 218 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of the section 448 of the Companies Act, 1956 ( I of 1956 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby appoints Shri H . V . Vaishnav , clerk of the Court, Distt. Court, 


308 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959/MAGHA 4, 1880 


[PART II 


Sorath , to be the er - officio , Omcial Liquidator attached to Sorath District with 
effect from the datç hc assumes charge until further onders . 

[No. F . 2 /5 / 58 -C . L . III. ] 
P , B . SAHARYA , Under Secy . 


(Indian Standard Institution ) 
New Delhi, the 16th January 1959 


S . O . 219 .- - In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) 
Regulation , 1995 the Indian Standards Instirulion hcrehy notifies that an amendment to the Indian 
Standard given in the Schedule hereto annor -d has been issued under the powers conferred by sub 
regulation ( 1) of regulation 3 of the said regulati018. 

THE SCIIEDULE 


No, and date of Ga- No , and 
Si. No, and title of llie zette Notification in date of 
No. Indian Standard which the establish - Amend 
amended 

ment of the Indian meni 
Standard was notified 


Bricf Particulars of 

Amendment 


Date of 
effect of 
the amed 
ment 


I IS : 1174 - 1957 Defi - 

nitions of Mica 
Terms 


S . O . 1349 dated 12th 

July 1958 
July 1959 


No, I Fch - (a ) In line 2 of aub - 18 Feb 
ruary clause 2 . 1. 10 at page ruary 1959 
1959 3 the wond condon 

ser lias been deleted 
(b ) Sub - clauge 2 - I 
13 at page 3 hag 
been replaced by 
a new sub - clause . 


Copics of this amendment slip are avaliablc , fiec of cost, with the Indian Standards Institution 
"Manak Bhavan , 9 Mathura Road , New Delhi- I and also its Branch Offices at (1) 40 /40A CAwas 
Patel Street, Fori, Bombay - I , ( 11 ) P - II M14520n Row Exiension , Calcutta - I and ( 111 ) 2 /21 First Linc 
Beach , Madras - I, 

[NO, MDC / 11(9 ).) 
8 . 0 , 220 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -regulations (2 ) and (3 ) of regulation 3 
of the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Marky) Regulations , 1955 , the Indian Standards 
Institution hereby notifies the issue of errata slips, particulars of which are given in column (4 ) 
of the Schedule hereto annexçd , in respect of the Indian Standards specificd in column ( 2 ) of the 
said Schedule . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Particulars 
of Errata Slips issued 


SI. No, and title of 

Indian Standard 


No . and date of Gazette No tificption 

ili which catablishment of the 
Ingien Standard was 

notified 


VO 


Fig 1o at pago 14 has been replaced 

by a new Fig . 


I IS : 458 - 1956 Specification S. R . O . 2823 dated 7th 

for Concrete Pipes (With September , 1957 
and Without Reinforce 

ment) 
2 IS : 1268 - 1958 Specification for S . O , 2654 dated 27th 

Handloom Worsted Lohin December 1958 


In Table II at page 4 unde 
column Width IN CM (OrIN .) 
against variety No. 4 , 14 
( or 56 ) has been substitute 
for 68 ( or 150 ) . 


Coples of these errata slips are available , free of cost , with the Indian Standards Institutio 
Manak Bhavan , 9 Mathura Road , New Delhi- 1 and also its Branch Offices at (1 ) 40 /40A Cawas 
Patel Street, Fort, Bombay - I , ( il) P -II Mission Row Extension , Calcutta - 1 and ( iii) 2 /21 Fir 
Linę Beach ,Madras - 1 . 

(No,MDC /11 (10 )] 


Sec . 3 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1959 /MAGHA 4, 1880 309 
- - - -- - - = 

= 

= 

= SB - - - - - - - 
New Delhi, the 19th January 1959 
$ . 0 , 221, - In pursuance of sub -regulations (2 ) and ( 3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Stan 
dardy Institution Certification Marks ) Regulations , 1955 , the Indian standards Institution hereby 
notifies that the Indian Standard , particulars of which are given in thc Scdcdulc heretu annexed , 
has been established during the period ist to 15th January 1959 . 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


THE SCHEDULE 

— 
No and title of the Indian 

Standard ur Standards , 
if any, superseded by 
the new Indian Standrad 


Si. No and title of the Indian 
No, 

Standard established 


Brief Particulars 


I IS : 1248 - 1958 Specification 

for Bictrical Indicating 
Instruments 


This standard covers indicating 
ammeters , 

voltmeters 
wattmeters, 

frequency 
indicators and power- factor 
idaicators including multi- pur 
pose , multi- range instruments 
in so far as they relate to the 
instruments named . It 
also covers centre -zero type of 
voltmeters and ammeters . 
(Price Rs. 5 .00 ) 


Copies of this Indian Standard aro available, for sale , with the Indian Standards Institution 
Manak Bhavan , 9 Mathura Road , New Delhi- I and also its Branch Offices at (i) 40 /40A Cawasji 
Patel Street , Fort , Bombay - I , (ii) P - II Mission Row Extension , Calcutta - I and ( ii ) 2 /21 First 
Line Beach , Madrag- I . 

(No.MDC / 11(4) ] 

C . N , MODAWAL , 
Dy. Director (Marks ) 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVT , OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1959 


