रजिस्ट्री सं० डी० 222 


REGISTERFD NO D . 222 . 


भारतको राजपत्र 


मन्यमेव जयते 


The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

= - = - - - - - - -- = - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
सं० 24 ] 

नई बिरुली, शनिवार, जूम 16 , 1973 / ज्येष्ठ 26 , 1895 
No. 24] NEW DELHI , SATURDAY, JUNE 16, 1973/ JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 
- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - . - - - . -- - - -- - - -- - - - 

इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ट संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह प्रलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके 
Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 

भाग II - - बग 3 -- उप -बड (ii ) 

PART II -~- Section 3 - - Sub-section ( ii ) 
( रभा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संघ राज्य मेज प्रशासनों को छोड़कर ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकारियों द्वारा जारी किये गये विधिक मावेश और प्राधसूचनाएं 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Government of India 

(other than the Ministry of Defence) by Central Authorities 

(other than the Administration of Union Territories ) 


मंत्रिमण्डल सचिवालय 

CABINET SECRETARIAT 

(Deportinent of Personnel & Admn. Reformas ) 
( कार्मिक और प्रशासनिक सुधार विभाग ) 

New Delhi, the 2nd June, 1973 
नई दिल्ली, 2 जून , 1973 

S . O . 1663.----In exercise of the powers conferred by sec 
tion 3 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 

(25 of 1946 ), the Central Government hereby specifies the 
फा . आ 1863 - दिल्ली विशेष पसिस स्थापना अधिनियम . following offences as the offences which are to be investi 

gated by the Delhi Special Police Establishment, namely : 
1048 (1948 का 25) की धारा 3 के व्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हए , केन्द्रीय सरकार, एतद्वारा , निम्नलिखित 

( a ) Offences punishable under section 394 of the Indian 

Penal Code (45 of 1860) ; 
अपराधों को ऐसे अपराध निर्धारित करती है जिनकी अन्वेपण 

( b ) attempts, abetments and conspiracies in relation to , 
विल्ली विशेष पुलिस स्थापना यारा होना है , अर्थात्:--- 

or in connection with , any offence mentioned in 
clause ( a ) and any other offence committed in tho 

course of the same transaction arising out of the same 
( क ) भारतीय दण्ड संहिता (1880 का 45 ) की धारा 394 के 

facts . 
अधीन दण्डनीय अपराध , 

[ No . 228 / 9 / 73 - AVD. II] 
( ख ) खंड ( क ) में उल्लिखित किसी अपराध के संबंध में 

आवेरा 
या उससे संबंधित प्रयत्न , उकसाहट और षड़यंत्र तथा 
एक जैसे तथ्यों से उत्पन्न हुई वैसी कार्यवाही के दौरान का . आ . 1664. - दिल्ली विशेष पुलिस स्थापना अधिनियम , 
किया गया अन्य कोई अपराध । 

1948 (1948 का 25 ) की धारा 8 के साथ पठित , धारा 5 की उप 

धारा (1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों तथा इस संबंध में इसको समर्थ 
[संख्या 228/ 0/ 73-ए. वी . ही 2] बनाने वाले सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए , मिहार राज्य 
31 GI / 73 - 1 

( 2127) 


[ PART II — 
2128 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

- - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- -- - - 
- - - - - 

- - --- - 

March , 1971. The petitioner was a candidate to the said 
सरकार की सहमति से, केन्द्रीय गार कार . एतद्दवारा, दिनांक 8/ 9 

election . The nomination of the respondent 1o . 1 w115 
जनवरी , 1973 की रात्रि में प्राम भरतपुरा , थाना विक्रम , जिला challenged by the petitioner before the Returning Officer , 

who over -ruled the objection of the petitioner . The peti 
पटना के श्री धूपद नारायण सिह के घर से कछ बहुमूल्य परशका tioner now files this petition to have the election of the ros 

pondent no . 1 declared null and void on the grounds men 
की तथाकथित चोरी के संबंध में भारतीय दण्ड संहिता (1860 की tioned in the petition . 
धारा 394) के अधीन का उनीय अपराधों तथा भारतीय दण्ड सहिता 

2 . Shortly stated the case of the petitioner is as follows : 
( 1860 461 45 ) 57 0 394 - rfid = 1 2TR If = 4x + By Clause 2 of the Goa , Daman and Diu (Citizenship ) Order 

1962 (Hereinafter referred to as " thc Order " ) , any person 
या उनसे संबंधित प्रयासो , उकसाहटों और आपराधिक षड़यंत्रों who was born before the 20th December, 1961, in the terri 

tory of Goa , Daman and Diu was deemed to have become 
तथा उस कारवाई के दौरान किया गया कोई अन्य अपराध के 

a citizen of India on that day provided that any such person 

shall not be deemed to have become a citizen of India as 
अन्वेषण के लिए दिल्ली विशेष पलिस स्थागना के सदस्यों की 

aforcsaid if within ono month from the date of the publica 

tion of the " tho Order " in the Official Gazette that person 
शक्तियों एवं क्षेत्राधिकार का समस्ल बिहार राज्य में विस्तार करती 

makes a declaration in writing to the Administrator of Goa , 
Daman and Diu or any authority specified by him in this 
behalf, choosing to retain the citizenship or the nationality 

which he had immediately before the 20th December, 1961. 
[HYT 228 /9 / 734 . a . . 2 ] 

By a declaration in writing (Ex- P - 3 ) made on 27 - 4 - 1962 the 

respondent no . 1 chose to maintain his Portuguese nationality 
# . fer , arta utara and citizenship which he had immediately before the 20th 

December, 1961. ( Exh . P . 3 shall hereinafter for brevity sako 

be called P . 3). On the 13th May, 1962, the respondent No. 1 
ORDER 

proceeded on a foreign travel on a Portuguese passport Issued 

to him on or about the 25th Juno, 1958, by the former 
9 .O . 1664. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub Portuguese Government of Goa, Daman and Diu . As his 
section (1 ) of section 5, read with section 6 , of the Delhi Portuguese passport was expiring on the 21st June, 1962, he 

applied to tho Portuguese Consulate in London for a new 
Special Polico Establishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1946 ) and all 

Portuguese passport which was granted to him on the 18th 
other powers enabling it in this behalf , the Central Govern Junc, 1962. The new Portuguese passport was valid up to 
ment with the consent of the Government of the State of 

the 17th June, 1964. Apart from the fact that the respondent 

No. 1 became 4 Portugucse citizen by virtue of P . 3 , tho 
Bihar , hereby extends the powers and jurisdiction of the 

respondent No. 1 also acquired Portuguese citizenship by 
members of the Delhi Special Police Establishincnt to the renewing his Portuguese passport in the Portuguese Consulate 

in London on the 18th June, 1962 . In October , 1962 tho 
whole of the State of Bihar for the investigation of offences 

respondent No. 1 returned to Goa as an alien and applied 
punishable under section 394 of the Indian Penal Code for and obtained a residence permit to stay in India , which 
(45 of 1860 ) and also attempts , abetments and criminal cons 

was renewed from time to time, Clause 3A of the Citizen 

ship Rules, 1956 (hereinafter called " the Rules" ) made under 
piracies in relation to , or in connection with , the said offences, 

the Citizenship Act, 1955 (hereinafter called " the Act " ) pro 
and any other offenco committed in the course of the vides that where a person who has become an Indian citizen 
same transaction in regard to the alleged theft of some 

hy virtue of the " the Order " holds a passport issued by the 

Government of any other country . tho fact that he has not 
valuable books on the night of 8 / 9 January, 1973 from 

stirrendered the said passport on or before the 19th January , 
the house of Shri Dhrupad Naruin Singh of Village Bharat 

1963, shall be conclusive proof of his having voluntarily ac 

quired the citizenship of that country before that day . 
pura , P . S . Bikram , District Patna . 

The 
respondent No . 1 deliberately and knowingly falled and neg 
[No. 228 / 9 / 73-AVD . II) lected to surrender his Portuguese passport beforo the 19th 
B . M . SINGH , Under Secy. 

January , 1963, and has thereby voluntarily acquired Portu 
guese citizenship irrespective of the facts that he had dono 

so by making the declaration P . 3 , and of the renewal of 
ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

Portuguese passport in London. Sometime in January , 1964, 
New Delhi, the 13th April , 1973 

respondent No . 1 returned his Portuguese passport to the 

Special Adviser , Ministry of External Affairs , Panaji, and 
S .O . 1665.— In pursuance of section 106 of the Repre 

without saying anything more claimed Indian citizenship . 
sentation of the People Act , 1951 (43 of 1951), the Election 

Whilst claiming Indian citizenship respondent No. 1 sup 

pressed the existence of P . 3 . The Administration of Goa, 
Commission hereby publishes the judgement dated the 16th Daman and Diu having P . 3 with them and knowing that 
March , 1973, of the Court of the Judicial Commission , Goa, 

the respondent No. I was not a citizen of India as a result 

of P . 3 and of the renewal of Portuguese passport and his 
Daman and Diu in Election Petition No. 1 of 1971 . 

failure to surrender it on or before 19 - 1 - 1963 , for reasons 

best known to them , informed respondent No. 1 by the 
JUDICIAL COMMISSIONER S COURT 

letter dated the 15th December, 1964, that he had prima 
GOA , DAMAN & DIU , PANAJI 

façlo become a citizen of India by virtue of " the Order " . 

The said information was to the knowledge of respondent 
Election Petition No. 1 of 1971 

No. 3 who was later on dropped by the petitioner, false and 

erroneous and contrary to documentary evidence in their 
G . Y . Bhandare 

— Petitioner. possession . In fact and in law respondent No. 1 was not a 
Vs. 

citizen of India under the " the Order” and even if he had 

become he had , to the knowledge of the third respondent 
1 . Erasmo de Jesus Jack Sequeira -- Respondent ceased to be for reasons already stated . At any rate the said 
Shri V . R . Bhandare , Advocate for the petitioner. 

letter is no evidence that prima facle the respondent No. 1 
Shri Porus Mehta Sr. Counsel with Shri Bernardo Reis , 

is a citizen of India . Therefore the respondent No. 1 was 

for the reasons previously stated not an elector as contem 
for the respondent. 

plated under the Representation of the People Act 1951, and 

as he was disqualified from being chosen to fill a seat in 
Panaji, the 16th March , 1973 

Parliament, his election is void . 
JUDGMENT 
This is a potition filed by Shri G . Y . Bhandare against 

3 . The petitioner took objection to the nomination of the 

respondent No. 1 before the returning officer on tho ground 
the respondent No . 1 who is the returned candidate that he was not a citizen of India . The respondent No. 1 
of the House of People from the Marmagoa Constituency , 

produced before the Returning Officer two passports issued 
the result of the election wherein was declared on the 10th 

by the Chief Secretary of the Goa Government and the letter 
dated 27- 7 - 1970 from the Government of India saying that 


KLON 


O WThor 


TOTAAL 


- YALTALS 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Sec . 3 ( i ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2129 
= = == = = = = - - - - = - - - - - 

-- - 

- - -- - 
a certificate of citizenship under Section 13 of " the Act" Handoo and the S . S. P . nodded his assent, and told respon 
was not necessary for him as the Government of Goa bad dent No . 1 that Handoo had telephoned to him regarding 
already conveyed to him that he was , prima facle , an Indian tho case of respondent No. 1. He signed the declaration 
citizen . Based on the documents produced by the respoil P . 3 as a formality and then registered his passport in the 
dent No . 1 , the returning officer overruled the objection of Polico in the prescribed form and went to Handoo to hand 
the petitioner: 

over to him the letter P . 4 . He showed R . 5 . to Handoo and 

told him that the Police would not accept it. Handoo told 
4 . The petitioner prayed that the election of the respon 

him that the signing of a prescribed form was the formality 
dent No. 1 to the Lok Sabha from the Marnagoa Parlia required to keep up the pretence that he was a Portuguose 
mentary Constituency , the result whereof WAS declared on citizen so that his secret mission might not be jeopardized , 
10th March , 1971, be declared void . 

An cxit and re - entry permit was granted to respondent No. 1 

by the Special Officer, Ministry of External Affairs , Panaji, 
5 . By his writton statement the respondent No. 1 contio 

on 1 - 5 - 1962 mentioning therein that this was a special case , 
verted the material facts alleged by the petitioner. His case 

Respondent No . 1 complied with all the formalities only with 
is as follows :-- 

the intention of retaining temporarily the Portuguese pass 
port and thinking that his citizenship could in no way be 

affected , and without intending to retain Portuguese citizen 
6 . The petition should be dismissed in limini under Section ship or nationality . No member of the family of the reg 
86 ( 1) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, 45 the rondent No. 1 had retained Portuguese citizenship . 
copics accompanying the petition were not at all attested by 
the petitioner as required by Section 81( 3 ) of the Repre 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, or otherwise . This Court 9 . Rcspondent No. 1 went to London where he had to 
has no jurisdiction to entertain the petition as section 100 renew his Portuguese passport. From London ho contacted 
Sub -section ( 1 ) Clause (a ) of the Representation of the People friends in Portugal and was advised not to enter Portugal , 
Act, 1951 is inapplicable to a candidate who after being He therefore did not go to Portugal. 
duly elected has already taken on oath a scat in the House 
of the People . The decision as to whether a member of the 
House of People who has taken his seat was or was not an 

10 . On his return to Indin he reported to Handoo and told 
Indian citizen is a matter for the exclusive determination and 

tuin that he would be able to make a trip to Portugal, later . 
decision of tho President of India under Article 103. If this 

Handoo then advised him to continue to retain the Portu 

guese passport and to comply with the necessary formalities 
construction is not accepted thc provisions of Section 100 ( 1 ) 
( a ) of the Representation of the People Act 1951 would be 

and tako duc precautions. Shri Handoo was at all times 
ultra vires Articles 102 and 103 of the Constitution , 

aware that the respondent No. 1 never in cnded to do any 
act to jeopardize his Indian citizenship and Handoo himself 

cxpressed to the respondent the Goveinment s views that the 
7 . The first proviso to paragraph 2 of " the Order " is ultra 

respondent continued to be an Indian citizen . Respondent 
vires and in excess of the powers conferred by Section 7 of 

No . 1 registered his passport, applied for residence permit 
" the Act " . Governinent was not empowered to impose a 

and kept renewing it from time to time merely to comply 
condition that if a certain declaration is made within a cer 

with formalities. When Clause 3A was ingerted in Schedule 
tain tiinc a person shall not be deemed to be a citizen of 

III to " the Rulcs " , respondent No . 1 addressed the letter R . 6 
India . The only power vested in the Central Government 

mentioning specifically the authorisation of 1 - 5 -1962 and 
was to specify by a notified order persons who should be 

that he was writing R . 6 to enable him to obtain and 
citizens of India hy reasons of their connection with an an 

India i passport in due courge . 
nexed territory . 


8 . The respondent No. 1 became a citizen of India under clause 
2 of " the Order " in view of the fact that he was born in Goa. 
The proviso to Clause 2 is not applicable to the respondent 
No . 1 as he made no legal and valid declaration on 27 -4 - 1962 
( P . 3 ) in as much as he did not in fact choose to retain his 
Portuguesc nationality or citizenship . Moreover, P . 3 was 
made at the request of the then Special Adviser , Goa , for 
reasons which had no connection whatcver with any intention 
to retain Portuguese nationality or citizenship or to loose Indian 
citizenship , P . 3 does not bind the respondent or effect the 
operation of the first part of Clause 2 in so far as it is 
applicable to the respondent No. 1. The only intentiull of 
making the declaration ( P . 3 ) was to retain the Portuguese 
passport and not to renounces Indian nationality or to main 
tain Portuguese nationality . The said Special Advisei 
knowing of this intention conveyed to the respondent No . 1 
that he could make the declaration on P . 3 . In any case 
P . 3 was never intended to be or accepted or acted upon 
As a declaration made under the said proviso to Clauso 2 . 
The respondent wanted to go to Portugal on in Indiu pus , 
port to settle some of his private affairs . He had a talk 
with Shri Handoo , the then Special Adviser 10 the Military 
Governor of Goa, Daman and Diu , about his trip to Portu 
gal. Shri Handoo thought of taking advantage of the jour 
ney of the respondent No . 1 to Portugul under some obten 
sible reason and entrusted the respondent No. I with a secret 
mission . Shri Handoo therefore advised the respondent not 
to go on an Indian passport to avoid attracting attention and 
consequent trouble at the Portuguese cnd and requested res 
pondent No . 1 to retain his Portuguese passport and to com 
ply with other formalities for doing so . As respondent No. 1 
was apprehensive about the possible loss of his Indian citi 
zenship which he claimed to possess by birth , Handoo dic 
tated to him the draft of u letter which respondent No . 1 
was supposed to address to him . Respondent No. 1 took 
the draft homo, typed the letter to Handoo (Exh . P . 4 ) and 
also another declared on dated 27- 4 - 62 addressed to the 
Senior Superintendent of Police (Exh . R 5) stating that he 
wished to retain his Portuguese passport. He went to the 
Police Station and handed over the declaration , R . 5 . The 
S . S . P . glanced at R . 5 , returned it to respondent No . 1 and 
asked him to make a declaration in the prescribed form . 
Respondent No . 1 told the S .S .P . that he had been sent by 


11 . He surrendered his Portuguese passport to the Special 
Adviser, M . E . A . on 15 - 1 - 1964. On 25 - 4 - 1964 the Registration 
Officer threatened to prosecute respondent No . 1 for not exten 
ding his stay. Respondent No . 1 replied that he had surren 
dered his passport . The Registration Officer insisted with 
respondent No . 1 that permission to stay had to be extended , 
On 1 - 5 -1964 respondent No. 1 wrote the Special Officer 
M . E . A . Asking him to inform the Registration Officer that he 
was an Indian citizen who was holding a Portuguese passport 
only tempio urily . On 18 - 5 - 1964 respondent No. 1 was called 
by the Under Secretary , Home Department, Government of 
Goa. The respondent No. 1 met the Under Secretary . On 
3 -6 - 1964 respondent No. 1 wrote to the Under Secretury 
giving him some date required by him and requesting him 
to arrange for the respondent s Indian citizenship to bo 
accepted . On 14 - 7 - 1964 the S .S . P . calleu respondent No. 1 to 

bis oftice with a birth certificate to show that respondent 
No. 1 was a Goan by birth . In reply to his application duted 
3 - 6 - 1964 respondent No . 1 received the letter Exh . P . 41 

ated 15 - 12 - 1964 whereby the Under Secretury , Goo Govern 
ment, informed him that he was directed to state that respon 
dent No. 1 had pruna facle become a citizen of India by 
virtue of " the Order" . 


12 . When in the year 1969 the question of his citizenship 
was ligain raised by the Government of Goa and referred 
to th : Government of India . Ministry of Home Affairs , the 
Joint Secretary Government of India , wrote to respondent No . 
1 that the matter had been reconsidered and treated as closed . 
The respondent No. 1 then requested the Govenment of 
India to issue to him a certificate under section 13 of 
" the Act" . After considering the matter the Joint Secretary , 
Government of India , M . H . A . advised the respondent No. 
1 thut since the Goa Administration had , in their letter 
dated 15 - 12 - 1964 ( P . 41) already informed the respondent 
Thulit : hd prima facio become a citizen of India by virtue 
of " the Order " the necessity of a certificate under Section 
13 of " the Act" did not arise . In any event, having regard 
to the facts and circumstances in which the purported declara 
tion on P 3 was madlo , Exh . P . 52 is in fact and in law a 
ceitificate under the said Section and niugt bo construcd to 
be so . In this view of the matter, a duly authorised officer 


2130 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

(PART II 
- = = = = = = = = - - - - -- -- -- - - - - - - - - 

-- _ -- - - -- - - - 
of tho Central Government having adopted and accepted 

5 . Wag the first respondent disqualified to be choson 2 
the certificate P . 41 , P . 41 must be constituted as having the 

member of the Lok Sabha in March , 1971 for the 
same effect as a certificate under Section 13 of " the Act" . 

reasons stated by the petitioner in the election 
There is therefore conclusive evidence that the respondent 

pctition ? 
No . 1 is a citizen of India on and from 15 - 12 -1964 or at 
least from 27- 7 - 1970 . 

6 . To what relief ? 
13 . In law tho natural status of a subject of an annexed 

The parties raised no objection as to the framing of these 

issues . Issues Nos. 1, 3 and 4 were set up for being heard 
territory is a matter for the State and the Courts of law 

as preliminary issues. My learned predecessor also decided 
can have no say in the matter. " The case must therefore bc 

that if the parties were prepared to adduce evidence about 
referred to the Government for its decision under " the 

issue No. 2 , that issue also would be decided alongwith 
Act " . 

issues Nos. 1 , 3 and 4 . My learned predecessor by his order 

dated 5th October, 1971, decided issues Nos. 1, 2 and 4 . 
14 . The fact that respondent No. 1 renewed his Portu He did not decide issue No. 3 bccause the partics wished 
guese passport in 1962 or did not surrender it before 

to adduce evidence regarding that issue. Issues Nos. 1 and 
15 - 1 - 1963 has no relevancy at all, not only in view of the 

2 were decided in the affirmative , in favour of the petitioner 
facts mentioned above , but also because the said passport 

and issue No. 4 was decided in the negative, also in favour 
WAS returned and an Indian passport was obtained in 1965 

of the petitioner. The issues that fall for my determination , 
and another Indian passport was obtained in 1970 . 

therefore , are the issues Nos . 3 , 5 and 6 . 
15 . This court has no jurisdiction to decide matters re 

21. The fust of these issues is regarding the prosentation 
garding acquisition of foreign citizenship by an Indian 

of the petition . The petition was handed over to the Regis 
national on account of his omission to net in accordance tiur on 20th April , 1971. The Registrar made an endorse 
with Rule A of " the Rules" . In any event , Rules 3A is ment on the petition that the petition was presented on that 
ultra vires and in excess of the powers conferred on Giov 

day . The roznama shows that when tho petition was handed 
crnment by Section 18 or " the Act" becauso tho same is a 

over to the Registrar copies of the petition had not been 
rulc of substantive law and not a rule of cvidence, 

attested by the petitioner under his own signature to be 

truc copios ot the petition as required by Section 81( 3 ) . The 
16 . On the basis of the caso set up by the respondent petition was not registered on that day . Rule 5 made by 
No . 1 as narrated by me in the precedding paragraphs, the this Court in regard to election petitions under the Repre 
respondent No. 1 prayed that the petition bo dismissed in sentation of the People Act, 1951. provides that immediately 
Ilninc. 

after the petition is presented the Registrar shall endorse 

thereon the date of presentation and shall enter it in a special 
17 . The case of the Government of India , the respondent 

register maintained for the registration of the elcction peti 
No. 3 in this petition was as follows : 

tions. This rule was not fully complied with by the Regis 
18 . Respondent No. 1 bocamc & citizen on 20th December , 

trar. When the petition was handed over to him by the 
1961 and is still a citizen of India . P , 3 was not voluntarily 

potitioner he made an endorsement therçin , but did not 
signed by respondent No. 1 as it was signed by him on ad 

register the petition in the special register Before such 
vice and at the instance of the then Special Adviser , Goa , 

registration was done the petitioner attested all copies to be 
( Shri Handoo ) acting on behalf of respondent No. 3 . P . 3 

true copies of the petition on 23 - 4 -1971, On 24 - 4 - 1971 the 
docs not in any way affect the status of Indian citizenship 

petition was registered in the special register maintained for 
acquired by respondent No. 1 by virtue of the provisions 

the registration of election petitions, 
of " the Order " . Respondent No. 1 did not continue to be 
a Portuguese national on account of P . 3. Having regard 

22 . In the roznama there is an entry made by the Superin 
to the circumstances under which P . 3 was signed , P . 3 is 

tendent that the petitioner had not attested the copies as truc 
not a declaration contemplated by the proviso to " the order" . 

copies. The petitioner has stated in the course of his evi 
Tho Special Officer , M . E . A . issued to respondent No. 1 a 

dence that he had attested the copies but that he had not 
special authorisation permitting respondent No . 1 to go to 

attested the annexures and that tho annetures were merely 
U . K . and Portugal on his Portuguese passport and retuin 

signed by him . It is possible that the Superintendent has 
to India within a period of 6 months . After respondent No. 1 

made a mistako due to oversight. However , I have to go by 
returned to India residential permits were granted to him 

records and I have to accept the entry in the roznama mado 
from time to time with a view to avoiding any complications 

by the Superintendent in preference to the deposition of tho 
As respondent No. 1 held a Portuguese passport for reasons 

petitioner . The entry made by the Superintendent reads as 
connected with the affairs of State and the said permits were 

follows : 
granted on behalf of respondent No. 3 with a view not to 
embarrass respondent No. 1 Respondent No. 1, did not ceasc 
to bo an Indian citizen from June , 1962 or later on at any 

" The copics for the respondents are not attested by the 

petitioner under his own signature to be truc copies 
timo. Respondent No . 1 returned his Portuguese passpoit to 

of the petition " . 
tho Special Officer . M . E . A ., Panaji, in January , 1964 , and 
sought recognition of his lndian citizenship . He did not 
apply for his registration as 4 citizen of India under " the 

From this entry all that can be concluded is that the copies 
Act" . Respondent No. 1 was treated as a citizen of India 

of thc petition were not attested but it cannot be said from 
as from 20th December , 1961. Respondent No. 1 did not 

that entry that the copies of the petition were not even 
commit acts sufficient to bring about the termination of his 

signed by the petitioner. The respondent No. 1 has not 
Indian citizenship . Respondent No . 1 was an elector under 

stated that the petitioner had not signed the copies when the 
the Ropresentation of People Act, 1951. The passports issued 

petition was presented . The case of the respondent No. 1 
to thc rcspondent No. 1 aic of relevance to this case , 

is that the petition was not attested. An attestation mcans 

certifying a copy to be true and signing it. According to the 
19 . These in short are the cases of the potitioner, the i espondent No. 1 therefore both these things were missing . 
respondent No. 1 and the respondent No. 3 . 

The burden lies on the respondent No . 1 to prove his con 

tention and as I have said there is no proof that tho peti 
20 . On these ploadings , my learned predecessor framed tioner had not even signed thc copies of the petition though 
on 16 - 9 - 1971 the following issues : 

there is proof that he had not attested them . In the normal 
1. Hag this Court jurisdiction to entertain the election 

course I am to presume that the copies of the petition had 

been duly signed . There is in addition to this the fact that 
petition ? 

I have already pointed out, that cven attestation was done be 
2 . Is the petitioner a citizen of India ? 

foro the registration of the petition . Shri Bhandare relies 

on Harigh Chandra v . Triloke Singh AIR 1957 SC 444 and 
3 . Did the petitioner comply with the provisions of on Dr. Anup Singh v . Abdul Ghani AIR 1965 SC 815. In 

Section 81 (3 ) of the Representation of People Act the first of these cases an imendment was allowed permitting 
1951 and if not is the petition fit to be dismissed a new ground to be raised after the petition was flled and 
under Section 86 ( 1) of that Act ? 

Shri Bhandare argues that iſ an unendment of that nature 

was allowed there is no reason why the petitioner should not 
4 . Whether the first proviso to Par 2 of the Croat , be allowed to attest the copies of the petition after it was 

Daman and Diu (Citizenship ) Order 1962 is ultru filed but before it was registered in the second decision 
vires and in excess of the powers conferred by on which Shri Bandare rolies , copies of the petition merely 
Section 7 of the Citizenship Act 1955 ? 

signed but not attested and served on the opposite party 


- - 


- 


SEC . 3 ( ü ) ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAIST HA 26 , 1895 2131 
-- - 

- 
- 

- = = = = = - - - - - - - - - - - R E - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - 

- - - - - -- - - -- = - = 
were considered substantial compliance with the provisions of in the Schedule III to the Citizenship Rules 1956 , requiring 
Section 81( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act. It the surrender of such passports on or before 19 - 1 -63. It 
appears to me that this decision of the Supreme Court clinches must however be remembered that in the present case accord 
the issue. There has been substantial coinpliance with the ing to the case of respondent No. 1 he wanted to go to 
provisions of Section 81( 3 ) in the present case and I answer Portugal on an Indian passport and he was told by Handoo 
the issuo No. 3 in the affirmative in favour of the petitioner . to go on a Portuguese passport. He stated that he thought 

that the instructions given by Handoo to him were to do 
23. I shall now proceed to consider the issue No. 5. 

the neecful to retain tho Portuguese passport and to register 

it, and that he was asked to sign P . 3 by the Registration 
24. This issue is, whether the respondent No. 1 was an Officer much against his wish and his expectation . It is 
Indian Citizon at the time of the Election . In this regard 

possible thcrcforo, that the respondent No . 1 thought that 
the contention of both the parties are two - fold . The peti 

he had to make a declaration like R . 5 and not like P . 3 
tioner contends that the respondent No. 1 never acquired 

for the purpose of travelling abroad on a Portuguese passport. 

The petitioner further contends that R . 5 was preserved for 
Indian Citizenship and always continucd to be a Portuguese 
citizen in view of the proviso to clause ( 2 ) to " the Order " 

the abnormally long period of 10 yeais ; thut the presence 
and that assuming that he did acquire Indian citizenship 

of the photostat copy of R . 5 in the record of the Government 
under " the Order" , he lost it in Junc . 1962 when he renewed 

of India could not be explained; that though R . 5 and P . 4 
hig Portuguese Passport or in any cvent op 19- 1 - 1963 when 

were wiitten one after another by the respondent No. 1 in 
be failed to surrender his Portuguese passport. The conten his office , tbc papers used for these documents were different 
tions of the respondent No. 1 are that the respondent No . 1 

and the signatures on cach of them were also clifferent; that 
was an Indian citizen by virtue of " the Order " , and that, though 

the Senior Superintendent of Police was not examined 
the sccond question raised by the petition regarding the loss 

regarding R . 5 and that R . 5 was not inentioned in the 
of citizenship is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Cen voluminous correspondence between the respondent No. 1 
tral Government and not of this Court , this Court should 

and the Goa Government or between the Goa Government 
not, in the event of answering his first contention in the and Delhi or between thc respondent No. 1 and Delhi. 
afflimative , refer the matter to the Government of India be 

Unfortunately , all these facts which according to the peti 
cause there is ample evidence on record to show that the 

tioner, cast a sugpicion about the genuineness of R . S, were 
Government of India has already answered that question . 

not put to the respondent No. 1 in the course of the cross 

examination nor were any suggestions made to bim in 
25. The respondent No . 1 had raised a preliminary objec 

that regard . The question of the respondent No . 1 s 
tion regarding the jurisdiction of this Court. He contended 

citizenship was being agitated up to the end of 1964 and 
that assuming P . 3 intentionally made , the legal effect of P . 3 

it was re- raised in 1969. It can therefore be said that 

R . 5 was kept for about 5 years , but not for 10 years. It 
would be that the respondent No . 1 bad , on account of it 
lost his Indian citizenship which he had acquired on the 

was not suggested to the respondent No . I that the photostat 
coming into force of " the Order " . The argument of Shri Poruş 

copy of R . 5 was SUIToptitiously placed on Government 

rocords. Such suggestion was made to Patel but was 
Mehta on behalf of the respondent No. 1 was that the respon 

Icpcllod by him . It is true that thc papers used for P . 4 
dent No. 1 became an Indian citizen on the day " the Order" 

and R . 5 were different, but whereas R . 5 was a declaration , 
was published and ceased so to be on the day he executed 
P . 3 , if at all P . 3 was to be given any value in law . I have 

P . 4 was a lettor . The signatures in these two documents 

vary . I must agree with the petitioner that in the normal 
disposed of this preliminary point by my order dated 5 - 1 - 72 
and I held that in case P . 3 was to have its legal effect the 

course wo could expect the respondent No. 1 to sign in the 

same manner on R 5 and P . 4 . It is also true that R . 5 
respondent No. 1 had never acquired Indian citizenship . 

was not mentioned in the various letters written in connec 

tion with the citizenship of the respondent No. 1. Handoo 
26 . The petitioner also raised a preliminary objection 

was shown R . 5 and ho admitted that the respondent No. 1 
regarding P . 3 , namely , that the respondent No. 1 should 

showcd R . 5 to him on 27 - 4 -62 and that the respondent 
not be allowed to lead any evidence to show that P . 3 was 

No. 1 told him that he had produced R . 5 to the Senior 
not intentionally executed by the respondent No . 1 . This 

Superintendent of Police in the first instance , but that the 
preliminary contention raised by the petitioner based on 

Senior Superintendent of Police did not accept it and in 
Sections 90 , 92 and 94 of the Indian Evidence Act, was 

its place he asked the respondent No. 1 to sign P . 3 ; that 
rejected by me by my order dated 5 - 1 - 72 . 

he told the respondent No . 1 that P . 3 was the usual form 

and that R . 5 could not be accepted . Be that as it may, 
27 . It is contended by the petitioner that the execution of 

R . 5 is not a document vital to thc outcome of the case . 
P . 3 is a complete proof that the respondent No. 1 never 
became an Indian Citizen , and that even if it is assumed 
without admitting that P . 3 was not intentionally executed 

32 . R . 6 is the letter dated 18 - 1 -63 addressed to the 
by the respondent No . 1, its legal implication and effect can 

Special Officer , by respondent No. 1 informing him that the 
not be nullified even by the Government of India because 

l espondent No. 1 had left India on a Portuguese passport 
the Government of India has no power to bypass the provi 

bearing No, 3093 /62 on 13 - 5 -62 and that he had to retain 
sions of law , 

it for some time more for giving abroad . The respondent 
28 . The contention of the respondent No. 1 is that he 

No. 1 further states in R . 6 thut R . 6 is written on account 
did not sigo P . 3 voluntarily , but signed it at the instance 

of the notification inserting clause 3A in Schedule II to 
of the Government of India with the purpose of doing 

the Rules and for the purpose of enabling the iespondent 
certain work in connection with the affairs of State and 

No. 1 to obtain his Indian Passport in due caurse . It is 
that therefore P . 3 having been signed without the intention 

argued by the petitioner that this letter was not at all 
of retaining the Portuguese citizenship . it is ab inicio , null 

necessary . I do not sce how this is so . The casc of the 
and void and without any legal effect. 

respondent No . 1 was that he was an Indian citizen not 

withstanding the retention of the Portuguese passport and 
29 . The ovidence which I have to consider consists of the 

clause 3A was coming on the way of his claim to Indian 
depositions of the petitioner, thc documents filed by the 

citizenship . In this connection it must be jecalled that 
petitioner and the respondent No. 1 , the evidence of the res 

according to the respondent No. 1 P . 3 was not made 

voluntarily and had no legal effect . The respondent No. 1 
pondent No . 1 and the evidence of the two witnesses of 

has stated that he had sent R . 6 to the Special Officer and 
the respondent No. 1 Shri Handoo , the Special Advisor to 
thc Government of Goa, Daman and Diu at the relevant 

the presumption arises that in due course of business the 
time and Shri Patel, the Joint Secretary , Government of 

Special Officer did receive R . 6 . The argument of the 
India , Ministry of Home Affairs . 

petitioner that no mention is made of R6 in the inter 

Government for Goveniment correspondence , that R . 6 was 
30 . Before I procecd to consider 

received , is of no great relevance . In his letter dated 

this evidence I will 15- 1 -64 (P . 24 ) addressed to the Special Officer, the respon 
decide the questions which were raised by the petitionei deat No. 1 invited the attention of the Special Officer to 
regarding the genuineness of R . 5 and R . 6 . All the other R . 6 and the Special Officer did not deny that R . 6 was 
documents have been admitted without any controversy . 

received by him . In the statement made to the police by 

tho respondent No . 1 , the respondent No . 1 brought to the 
31. R . 5 is a declaration by respondent No. 1 that he notice of the police that he had written R . 6 to the Special 
wished to retain Portuguesc passport. It is contended by Officer on 18 - 1 -63. This fact is reproduced by the Senior 
the petitioner that it was not at all necessary for respondent Superintendent of Police in his letter dated 22- 7 -64 (Exh . 
No. 1 to make that declaration because even Indian citizens P . 38 ) addressed to the Special Oflicer . In his letter dated 
could keep Portuguese Passports until clause 3A was inserted 24- 8 -64 (Exh . P . 39) written by the Chict Secretary to the 


- - - - - 


- - - 


2132 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

| Parr Il 
- - 5001S 

-- - -- 
Under Secretary , Government of India , the Chief Secretary Handoo on 27 -4 - 1962; that Handoo returned to him the 
also reproduced the fact that the respondent No. 1 had Portuguese Passport given to Handoo on 10 -4 - 1962 and 
stated that he had written R . 6 to the Special Officcr. 1 asked him to get it registered at the Police ; that Handoo 
cannot accept the argument of the petitioner that the told him that he would have to make a declaration to the 
reference made to R . 6 in various letters , is made because 

S . S . P . to retain that Portuguese passport; that Handoo said 
in his letter dated 3 - 6 -64 (Exh . P . 33 ) to the Under Secretary , 

that he would intimato the $ . S . P . about it; that Handoo also 
Home Department , Panaji , the respondent No . 1 had trany dictated the No. 1 went to his office , typed the declaration 
cribed the body of R . 6 . The transcription of R . 6 docs 

R . 5 and letter P . 4 and thereafter procecded to the Police 
not contain the name of the person to whom the letter was Station ; that he handed over the declaration R . S to the 
Addressed or the date or the signature of the addressor. 

S .S .P ., the S . S . P . glanced at it , and returned it to him 
The reference made to R . 6 by various officers of the und instead , made him fill in and sign P . 3 . and then seat 
Government is not to the transcript of R . 6 but to a copy him to the section concerned to get bis passport registered ; 
of R . 6 . In the circumstances it is difficult for me to hold 

that he got his passport registered and went to Handoo , 
that R . 6 was never written and was a letter concocted for 

gave him P . 4 and showed him R . 5 ; that he told Handoo 
the purpose of supporting the case of the respondent No. 1. 

that the S . S . P . made him sign a form on Handoo y instrlic 

tions ; that he inquired what that form was and why he had 
33 . The first part of issue No. 3 which I have to consider 

been made to sign that form instead of R . 5 ; that Handoo 
is whether the respondent No . 1 travelled abroad on a 

told him that that was the form that had to be signed for at 
Portuguese Passport at the request of Shri Handoo on il 

Portuguese to leave the country ; that he told Handoo that 

he was an Indian citizen and that he had made it quito clear 
secret mission connected with the affairs of the Statc . 
will, therefore , discuss first the question of the secret mission . 

to him that he wished to remain an Indian citizen ; that 

Handoo told him that hç had to make him sign the form as 
34. The respondent No. 1 has stated that whilst he was a 

a formality to do the work that he had entrusted him to 
student he had taken part in the struggle for the Libcration 

do on behalf of the Government of India and that the 

signing of the form would not in any way affect his Indian 
of Goa ; that he used to propagate the idea of the liberation 
of Goa that he collected secret information between 

citizenship ; that Handoo said that anything out of the 
1954 - 57 and gave this information to Shri Ashok Mehta 

ordinary would attract attention and that in order to do 

the work that he had entrusted him , he had to make him 
on behalf of the Government of India , in Bombay; that he 
collected information in Goa whilst he was a student in 

keep up the pretence of being a Portuguese citizen in every 
Bombay because he was asked to do so . Some support to 

way ; that P . 3 was not signed voluntarily but was signed 
these statements of the respondent No. 1 is found in the 

at the instance of Handoo for reasons connected with affairs 
evidence of Handoo who stated that he camo in contact 

of State and not to renounce his Indian citizenship or retain 

Portuguese citizenship ; that his only intention in 
with the respondent No. 1 for the first time in 1958 or 

signing 

P . 3 was to retain a Portuguese passport and not to loge 
1959 in Bombay at the residence of Mr. Mehta Handoo 

Indian citizenship or to retuin or acquire Portuguese citizen 
also stated that on the information received by him he found 

ship . In cross- examination respondent No . 1 stated that tho 
tho respondent No . 1 reliable enough to be entrusted with 
some secret mission , 

Ostensible reason why he retained a Portuguese passport was 
that hc wanted to visit Portugal for personal reasons and 

was going with the permission of the Government, but that 
35 . The respondent No. 1 stated that after the liberation 

the real reason for retaining the Portuguese Passport was an 
ho met Handoo and told him that he wanted to go to 

assignment given to him in official confidence of which the 
Portugal on an Indian passport for scttling some private 

detalls are in secret files of the Government; that he came 
affair with a Portuguese lady: that on 10th April, 1962 he 

to know of " the Order" in its entirely when he saw Handoo 
handed over the Portuguese passport that he was then 

and asked him what P . 3 way ; that it was at that moment 
holding, to Handoo ; that when he met Handoo on 27 -4 -62 , 

that he read " the Order” for the first time in Handou s 
Handoo suggested to him to go on a Portuguese passport 

office and that he had made it clear to Handoo around tho 
to do some important work for the Government of India ; 

middlo of March 1962 that he wished to remain an Indian 
that when ho received the instructions from Handoo , he 

citizen ; that P . 3 was not signed in pursuance of " the Order " 
made it clear to Handoo that he was an Indian citizen and 

but merely to kcep a pretence ; that the signing of the form 
wished to remain an Indian citizen ; that Handoo assured 

1aiscd no implications in his case because he did not sign 
him that his travelling on a Portuguese Passport would in 

the form voluntarily ; that he received an assurance from 
no way jcopardize his Indian citizenship and that it was 

Handoo before he signed the form and also thereafter and 
necessary that he should travel on a Portuguese passport to 

that had he not received such assurance after he signed tho 
avoid attracting attention of the Portuguese and of the public 

form he would have proceded further in the matter ; that 
in order that the secret mission on which he was to travel 

the assurance was not given particularly with reference to 
might be performed smoothly and that for this purpose he 

the form but generally , that his citizenship would not bo 
had to keep thc pretence that he was a Portuguese citizen 

jeopardized ; that when Handoo told him that anything out 
in every way. This statement made by the respondent No. 1 

of the ordinary would attract attention , Handoo meant by 
in his examination -in - chief was maintained throughout the 

the word " attention " the attention of the public and that 
cross - examination and any suggestion that the statement was 

the attention of the public should be avoided so that he 
false was stoutly repelled by the respondent No. 1 . Shri 

might not land into complications with regard to the work 
Handoo also substantially supported the statement when he 

with which he was entrusted , which work was of secret 
deposed that he had a meeting with the respondent No. 1 

nature ; that in the meeting in the evening of 27- 4 - 1962 
sometime in April, 1962; that the respondent No. 1 expressed Handoo told him to keep the pretence of being a Portuguese 
to him his desire to go to Portugal on an Indian passport 

citizen in every way ; that Handoo told him to go directly 
with a view to solve his entanglemont with a white 

to Portugal but thereafter he told him to go first to London . 
Portuguese lady; that as he desired to use the respondent In the course of his cross -examination he stated that he 
No. 1 he suggested that the respondent No. I should retain 

considered himself bound to sign P . 3 because of the agree 
his Portuguese passport and that the respondent No . 1 

Inent between Handoo and him to do the work , though he 
would be issued an Indian passport when the occasion arose . was not to receive any consideration for the work and he 
Handoo also stated that he had decided to send the respon 

was willing to do the work for the Government; that he 
dent No. 1 on A secret mission connected with the affairs of 

consented to follow Handoo s instructions on the assurance 
the State because , (i) the respondent No. 1 had a Portugucse that his citizenship of India would in no way be jeopardized . 
passport, (i ) he had an ostensible reason to visit Portugal , 

To a suggestion made by Shri Bhandare in this regard , res 
which would not attract the attention of the Portuguese and 

pondent No . 1 replicd that it was true that he had agreed 
thc public to the secret mission and (iii) respondent No. 1 to do the secret work solely to serve the country . 
was a trustworthy and loyal Indian citizen . 


36 . P . 3 is the main stay of the cvidence on which the 
petitioner relies in support of his caso . This document is 
à declaration in a prescribed form which persons of Gown 
origin desiring to retain Portuguese citizenship (inder the 
proviso to Clause 2 of " the Order " , had to fill up and sign . 
Rogpondent No. 1 states that after the talk he had with 
Handoo regarding his desire to invel on an Indian passport 
and the advice given by Handoo to truvel on a Portuguese 
passport for reasons already stated , respondent No . I saw 


37 . Hundoo has also deposed as to the circumstances under 
which P . 3 was signed by respondent No. 1 . He has stated 
that respondent No. 1 retained his Portuguese Pussport till 
such tinie as he had asked respondent No 1 to relinquish it; 
that he asked the respondent No. 1 to relinquish it sometime 
in December 1963 or January 1964; that he asked respon 
dent No. 1 to retain the Portuguese passport in order that 
he could comply with the assignment that was given to him ; 
that he took advantage of the fact of the entanglement of 
respondent No. 1 with a Portugucse lady to give him a top 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 2133 
- - _ = - = - = - - = = - - - , , - - - - ; - - - : - 

- - - - - - - - - - - 
secret assignment under this cover . In the cross -examination that he was a Portuguese citizen so that the secret mission 
Shri Handoo stated that resrondent No. 1 told him that he connected with affairs of State might be fulfilled . The 
was asked by tho S . $ . P . to sign the printed form of declara existence of the secret mission itself was strongly challenged 
tion which is the usual form ; that he told respondent No . 1 by the petitioner. The petitioner s case is that the socret 
that it was necessary to sign the usual form as demanded by mission is a concoction made by the respondent No. 1 and 
the S. S .P . 

the Government of India acting in collusion . I have already 

narrated generally the evidence about the assignment of the 
38. It is contended by the petitioner that a plain reading secret mission . I am now going to discuss the oral evidence 
of P . 3 conveys a clear intention on the part of respondent 

regarding the secrct mission , and the instructions alleged to 
No. 1 to retain Portuguese citizenship and that therefore have been given regarding that mission , 
P . 3 would be conclusive and unrebuttable proof that ros 
pondent No. 1 Intentionally retained his Portuguese citizen 
ship . It is further contended by him that there was no 

41. Respondent No. 1 has stated in the course of his long . 
eloment of threat or coercion or misrepresentation or fraud 

cross - examination on this point, that instructions regarding 
or undue influence in regard to the signing of P . 3 . Shri 

the secret mission were being given to him by Handoo from 
Bhandare argues that linless respondent No. 1 could show 

timc to time; that whilst giving instructions he was usually 
that he signed P . 3 in performance of a legal duty the legal 

shown a note that had been written and that he was allowed 
effect of P . 3 should follow . This question does not 

to take notes from those notes , if he so required ; that his 
survive in view of my order dated 5 - 1 - 1972 wherein I held 

sccrct mission was to be carried out in Portugal and also 
that evidence regarding the fact that the declaration was 

in other countries. It was suggested to respondent No. 1 
mado by respondent No. 1 without mens declarandı, could 

by Shri Bhandare that the instructions regarding the work 
be led . If respondent No . 1 had no intention to exccute 

for Government were given to respondent No. 1 by Handoo 
P . 3 and if he had executed it just to keep up a pretence , 

in the evening of 27 - 4 - 1962 . Respondent No . 1 denied 
as is alleged by him , P . 3 would have no legal effect. Shri 

that suggestion and stated that they were given partly earlier 
Bhandare relies on Abdul Salam v . Union of India and 

and partly later and that the instructions were received by 
Another A . I. R . 1969 all . 223. In that case Abdul Salam , 

him until the day he left. Respondent No. 1 stated that 
the plaintiff appellant migrated to Pakistan in 1950 . He 

some of the countries that he visited were Pakistan , 
remained there for 5 years . In 1955 when he received news 

England, Franco , Denmark , Germany, United States and 

Portugal. Later on he corrected himself and stated that he 
that his father was seriously ill and almost on his death bed 
he felt compelled to obtain a Pakistani passport and to return 

did not vişit Portugal. It was argued by Shri Bhandare 
to India . He overstayed in India and was served with a 

that Handoo also stated that respondent No. 1 had visited 
notico to loave the country . He instituted legal proceedings 

Portugal when he was enumerating the countries which res 
to restrain the Government from deporting him . It was 

pondent No. 1 visited whilst abroad and that later on 
held by the Allahabad High Court that the desire to be 

Handoo also corrected himgelf and said that respondent 
present at a particular place does not create any legal obliga 

No . 1 had not visited Portugal. Shri Bhandare contends 
tion to be present there and that therefore it could not be 

that this lapse on the part of both the witnesses was not 
said that the passport was not voluntarily obtained It 

casual. He however did not clearly state that it was tho 
seems to me that it is not difficult to distinguish Abdul Salam s 

petitioner s case that respondent No. 1 did visit Portugal 
case from the present one. Abdul Salam obtained a 

during his trip abroad . If the case of the petitioner was in 
Pakistani passport after staying in Pakistan for 5 years, and 

fact that Portugal was visited , a suggestion would have been 
returned to India for purely personal reasons . In the case 

niade to these two witnesses that respondent No . 1 visited 
beforo me it is contended by the respondent No . 1 that when 

Portugal. The petitioner could also summon the respondents 
he wanted to go to Portugal for personal reasons he wanted 

to produce the Portugues passport bearing No. 3093 /62 
to go on an Indian passport and that he retained tho 

which the respondent No . 1 surrendered to the Special 
Portuguese passport purely because he was asked to do so 

Officer on 15 - 1 -64 . Nothing of the sort was done by the 
to carry out a top secret Assignment in connection with 

petitioner and I see no reason why the word of these two 
affairs of State . According to the respondent No. 1 his 

witnesses , that respondent No. 1 did not visit Portugal should 
desire to keep the Portuguese passport was therefore not 

not be accepted . Rospondent No . 1 further stated in the 
for personal reasons but for rcasons of interest of State . 

course of his cross- examination that he was instructed to 
Tho desire was prompted by the legal obligation that he 

stay in each of these countries for sometime; that that 
had to discharge due to the undertaking given to Handoo 

particular mission was entrusted to him alone ; that as far as 
to perform the secret mission . It appears to me that when 

the expenses of the journey were concerned the issue of 
someone offers to perform some task in relation to affairs 

sharing them never arose; that he volunteered to pay some 
of State whatever he does towards the performance of that 

of the expenses: that the question of cxpenses was discussed 
task is done under an implied legal obligation which Ilows 

in the Arst week of April , 1962, when he agreed to do tho 
from the undertaking given by him to the State , 

work for the Government; that he told Handoo that ho 
would pay certain expenses and Handoo groed to the sug 

gestion ; that money was paid in cash to hiin before he left, 
39 . The other arguments advanced by Shri. Bhandare but that he did not know what was the amount paid ; that 
regarding the volition of respondent No. 1 to sign P . 3 are : the money paid was in Sterling , but that he did not remon 
that Handoo does not corroborate that he had given any her the denomination of the notes in which it was paid ; that 
instructions either to respondent No. 1 or to S . S . P . in the the money was paid in the month of May , 1962 in Goa ; 
matter of execution of P . 3 ; that the pretence of that he could not say what were the total expenses of the 
nationality " , " affairs of State " and " secret mission " are trip ; that he did not remember how much money he had 
absent in the written statement of respondent No. 1 ; that received from the Government; that he spent all the money 
Handoo did not give to respondent No. 1 a blanket assurance that he received from the Government for the work entrusted 
regarding the safeguard of Indian nationality as is alleged by to him by the Government and whatever he had spent in 
respondent No . 1 does not state that the advice to execute addition to what he received was reimbursed to him on his 
when he came to know about the implications of having retuin ; that the reimbursement was made in October in Goa , 
signed P . 3; that the assurance of Handoo in relation to in rupces, in cash ; that he spent in foreign currency of his 
citizenship is absent in the written statement ; that Handoo own , which he had taken from here whilst going and was 
does not corroborate any discussion with respondent No. 1 reimbursed in Indian currency ; that some money was sent 
in the matter of assurance of citizenshlo rights; that the to him by Government whilst he was abroad but that he 
respondent No . 1 docs not state that the advice to excuto did not know the persons who delivered that money to him ; 
P . 3 was Included in the instructions given to him ; that it that ho accepted money from persons he knew were coming 
was not necessary to sign P . 3 to retain Portuguese passport from Handoo . He used to identify thoso persons by con 
to visit Portugal; and that Handoo did not have a conversa necting the instructions given to him with the messages tho 
tion with the S .S . P . regarding P . 3 . These arguments are persons who came from Handoo used to give him ; that he 
not substantially borne by the record or are otherwise contacted some friends in Portugul whilst he was in London 
incorrect. It is true that P . 3 need not be signed merely to to find out the possibility of his visit to Portugal; that tho 
retain Portuguese passport, but it had to be signed if respon names of those friends were given to him by Handoo in 
dent No. 1 was to travel on that passport . This position Goa; that he had taken down in writing the name of those 
had eventually to be admitted by Shri Bhandari. 

friends and had kept a record of those names, but that the 

record was later on destroyed . Respondent No. 1 was 
40 . I have discussed the oral evidence of the witnesses asked by Shri Bhandare : — " You Arst stated that you could 
regarding the intention of respondent No. 1 in signing P . 3 , not disclose the names of the friends and when you were 
The main contention of respondent No . 1 is that it was compelled to disclose the names Jater on , you stated that you 
signed unintentionally and merely to keep up a pretence did not remember the names . Which of the two versions 


2134 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

[PART 117 
-- - - - - -- - -- - -- - - -- -- - - 

- - - = = 
is correct ?" , and the answer was: _ " I do not want to disclose ( iii) the certainty that the respondent No. 1 was a trustworthy 
the names and also I do not remember the names ." Accord and loyal Indian citizen . He further stated that he consi 
ing to Shri Bhandare the answer was discrepant . On behalf dered respondent No. 1 the only trustworthy and loyal Indian 
of the respondent No . 1 it was contended that the meaning amongst all the Goang in Goa for that particular assignment 
of the answer was that cven if respondent No. 1 remembered as he knew respondent No . 1 since the time respondent 
the names of those friends he was not prepared to disclose No . 1 was a student in Bombay; that he did check up the 
their names . Respondent No . 1 further stated that he gave antecedents of respondent No. 1 with reference to his parents , 
the accounts of his expenditure to Handoo , but maintained family background , his associates and career , before entrust 
no copy of them ; that all the notes he had taken down from ing him with the top secret assignment; that this check up 
the records cither regarding the secret mission or the reten was done through the normal channel through the CID . 
tion of Portuguese passport , the complying with formalities , 

that he could not say whether the reports of the check up of 
and the taking of due precautions, were destroyed by him the antecedents are available with the C .I. D .; that all that 
jinder instructions, when he returned the Portuguese passport. he could recollcct at that nioment was that there was no 
It was suggested to respondent No . 1 that the instructions adverse report against respondent No. 1 . In this regard I 
ho was speaking about had not been mentioned by him in find that there is on record a report of the Police to gay 
the written statement. The respondent No . 1 replied that that the father and uncle of respondent No 1 were holding 
they were mentioned in the written statements in a very pro - Indian views and that there was nothing adverse found 
guarded manner and that it could be inferred from the against respondent No. 1. When Shri Bhandare asked 
general reading of the written statement that he had been Hundoo how many persons he had considered for the top 
entrusted with a secret mission . When respondent No. 1 secret assignment before selecting rcgpondent No. 1 , he re 
was questioned about his work in Portugal, he stated that plied that he was not in a position to disclose that fact as 
the lady was not his relation , but his friend; that there was he was under an oath of secrecy to the Intelligence Bureau 
no cntanglement as Handoo had written in P . 4 ; that the of the Government of India . Shri Bhandare asked Handoo 

Canons for his visiting that friend were highly personal, i.c . whether he could say about the amount of advance given to 
the matter was private one between him and the lady; that the respondent No. 1 before his departure on the top secret 
the messages that were sent to him by friends in Portugal assignment from Goa and Handoo replied that he did not 
not to go to Portugal were communicated to him either by remember the amount and that the amount advanced was 
work of mouth or in writing ; that the writings were hand not in cheque but in cash and that he did not remember the 
delivered ; that the messages were sent in Portuguese and currency of the denomination in which the advance wag 
English ; that during his sccrct mission he was given means made . Shri Porug Mehta argues that a person could not be 
to identify himself, but that he was not given an identity expected to remember such details after ten years. The 
card ; that after leaving India he went first to Pakistan ; that question was asked from Handoo whether he had sent the 
he doce not remember whether in Pakistan he stayed in a instructions to respondent No. 1 in every country he visited 
hotel or a private house; that he stayed in London for during the period of the secret assignment. Hondoo replied 
about three weeks sometimes in a hotel, sometimes with in the affirmative and stated that he was in contact with 
friends ; that he docs not remember the name of the hotel; respondent No. 1 while he was abroad on that assignment 
that he does not remember he made short trips from London and while he was visiting various countrick . He stated that 
before he renewed his Portuguese passport in Junc 1962; the assignment was interconnected with his visit to various 
that he could not say the exact sequence of the countries countries; that the instructions given to respondent No . 1 
he visited , but that that sequence could be found in the prior to big departure from Goa were altered subsequently 
Portuguese passport that he surrendered ; that his mission was when respondent No. 1 was in London ; thut the assignment 
not only to deliver secret messagea but included meeting involved risk to the life of respondent No. 1 and that such 
people and discussing with them ; that the exit and re - entry risk was envisaged by him when respondent No. 1 was sent 
permit (P . 5 ) was given to him to facilitate the mission ; from Goa ; that the order in which he was to visit the 
that he could not say why countries other than U .K . and various countries was Pakistan , U . K ., Portugal, Germany and 
Portugal were not mentioned in P . 5 ; that when he was Holland ; that he was required to stay in each country , 
given P . 5 he had already been given instructions to visit Handoo stated that he did not disclose to Joshi that he was 
various other countries ; that the secret mission was against sending respondent No. 1 on top secret assignment; that he 
Portugal; that in other countries his mission was against " would not" know why the exit and re -entry permit 
Portugal; that he had specific instructions from Handoo not mentioned only U . K . And Portugal. When he was asked 
to disclose the mission to any body and that he did not when did he meet respondent No . 1 for the first time in 
disclose even to his parents that he was going on a secret connection with the top secret assignment he replied that it 
mission ; that the friends who advised him not to go to was somctime early March 1962 and that the mecting was 
Portugal were in Portugal; that he also received instructions at his instance. He stated that he did not recollect whether 
not to go to Portugal from Handoo ; that sometimes he at that meeting any other discussion besides the secret 
contacted friends in Portugal and at other time friends con assignment, had taken place and that the secret assignment 
tacted him ; that the friends did not volunter to give him as for as he remembered terminated late in 1963 . 
that advice , but that he consulted those friends before leaving 
for Portugal; that the instructions to contact friends in 
Portugal were given to him by Handoo in Goa ; that instruc 

43. Evidence about the existence of the secret mission 
tions were received by him from Handoo not to go to 

was also given by Shri B . R Patel, I. A . S ., Joint Socretary , 
Portugal whilst he was in London , after he contacted friends Government of India , Ministry of Home Affairs . Patel is 
in Portugal; that he asked for instiuctions from Handoo ; 

the Joint Secretary in charge of citizenship section and be 
that he disclosed about the sccret mission for the first time 

exercises all the powers and functions of the Central Govern 
openly in this Court after the petition was filed because he 

ment under the Citizenship Act 1955 and the Rules framed 
found that Government themselves had made such clisclosure 

thereunder . The written statement filed by the Government 
in their written statements ; that his mission ended on 

of India was sworn by him . He was duly authorised by the 
15- 1 - 1964 when he returned his Portuguese passport. 

Union of India to file the written statement and to state what 
was written in it. Patel was examined on commission in 

Delbi. A certified copy of the written statement was pro 
42 . Handoo has substantially supported the statement of duced before the Commissioner and shown to him . He 
respondent No. 1 regarding the secret mission . Handoo identified the certified copy and the copy was taken on 
Atuted that he entrusted respondent No . 1 with a highly top record and read as evidence by consent of both the parties . 
secret mission in connection with the security of the Govern Patel was cross -examined by Shri Bhandare , counsel for the 
ment of India ; that the respondent No . 1 had retained his 

petitioner, regarding the statements made by him in the 
l ortuguese passport till such time he had asked him to written statement and also regarding other evidence given 
relinquish it; that he had asked respondent No . 1 to retain by him . Patel stated that the Union of India have treated 
his passport in order that he could comply with the assign respondent No. 1 As a citizen of India from 20th December , 
mont that was given to him ; that respondent No . 1 travelled 1961. in cross - examination he stated that the reason why 
to various countrics under instructions from him on a it has been stated in paragraph 3 of the written statement of 
Portugliesc pussport; that he travelled for a period of six 

respondent No . 3 that the first respondent became a citizen 
months on that passport in connection with the assignment of India on 20 - 12- 1961 and is still a citizen of India is that 
that had been given to him ; that the Government of India ho became a citizen of India under the Goa , Daman and 
and respondent No. 1 shared the expenses of his travel Diu (Citizenship ) Order 1962 and that the declaration that 
abroad . In his cross - cxamination he stated that the Nasons respondent No. 1 made under " the Order " was on the advice 
for choosing respondent No. 1 for the top socret assignment and at the instance of the then Special Adviser , Gon on 
were: - (i) the holding of a Portuguese passport hy respon behalf of the Government of India , for rcasons connected 
dent No. 1 ( ii ) his entanglement with a Portuguese lady with affairs of State and as such the said declaration (P . 3 ) 


Sec . 3 ( ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2135 


- VAT m 


- - 


T 


V 


MVE - A 


- 


T 


was not voluntarily made and had no effect on tbe status of 
the respondent No. 1 as an Indian citizen . Patel however 
added that the answer contained in the last sentence was 
given by him on the basis of the official records. He also 
stated that the written statement was based on records which 
were connected with affairs of State . He stated , based on 
the information derived from official records, that the decla 
ration signed by the first respondent was on behalf of the 
third respondent, the Union of India . He stated that the 
advice given by the then Special Adviser , Goa , on behalf of 
the Government of India was given for reasong connected 
with affairs of State . Patel was asked by Shri Bhandaro why 
respondent No . 1 was treated as a foreigner in 
certain letters and documents produced in court and the reply 
was that that was done to avoid any complications as the first 
respondent held a Portuguese passport for reasons connected 
with affairs of State and that the granting of residential 
permits were made on behalf of the third respondent with 
2 view not to embarass the first respondent. Shri Bhandare 
asked Patel whether it was only on the strength of the 
documents not produced that the Government holds that 
the declaration retaining Portugucsc nationality was filed by 
respondent No. 1 on the advice and at the instance of thọ 
Special Advisor on behalf of the Government of India and 
Patel replied that it was on the strength of the records 
produced and not produced . The evidence of Patel which is 
based on the records not produced by him was challenged 
by Shri Bhandare . Tt sccms to me that Shri Bhandarc s objec 
tion must be upheld . 


44. I havo discussed the entire oral evidence regarding the 
secret mission and the fact as to whether P . 3 was signed by 
respondent No . 1 intentionally . The mission was secret and 
apart from respondent No. 1 , Handoo and a few top Govern 
ment officials, no ono was in a position to know whether 
such mission had been assigned to respondent No . 1 or not . 
The existence of the mission was challenged by the peti 
tioner not on concrete data or definite basis but on surmises, 
The case of the petitioner is that the oral evidence regarding 
the sccret mission and the alleged luck of volition on the 
part of respondent No. 1 in signing P . 3 , was full of absurdi 
lies and that there were also some contradiction . It cannot 
be guinşaid that there are minor contradiction , but they are 
unimportent and somewhat natural. The existence of such 
contradictions rather strengthens the credibility of the testi 
money of the witnesses than weaken it . It is argued by the 
petitioner that the respondent No , 1 had many pro - Portuguese 
friend and pro -Portuguese leumings , that his sole aim in 
retaining Portuguese passport was to visit Portugal on account 
of his entanglement with a Portuguese lady and to look after 
his interests in Portugal, Angola and Mozambique ; that at that 
time I was not possible for Goans holding Indian passport to 
enter Portugal None of these contentions, however can be 
supported by the necord . Apart from somc vague opinion 
and surprise of some police officer there is nothing to show 
that respondent No. 1 hud lands or other financial interests 
in Portugal or her colonics. Respondent No. 1 denied a 
suggestion made in that regard in the cross -cxamination . 

The nelitioner contends that the secret mission was not at all 
mentioned in the written statoment, and was for tho first 
time mentioned in Court . Respondent No. 1 has cxplained 
that he stated this fact in the written statement in a guarded 
manner because the mission being secret he thought he would 
not be justified in disclosing it more clcarly them he did 
and that he made a full Jisclosure about the existence of 
such mission when he found that Government of India 
themselves had disclosed the existence of the secret mission 
in the written statement filed by them . Respondent No. 1 
did state in paragraph 4 (b ) and (c ) that P . 3 was not a 
valid declaration in as much as he did not choose to retain 
his Portuguesc nationality ; that the declaration was made at 
the request of the then Special Officer , for reasons which 
had no connection whatever with any intention to retain 
Portuguese nationality of citizenship , or to lose Indian 
citizenship ; that the only intention in making P . 3 was to 
retain the passport and not the Portugucsa nationality or to 
ronounce the Indian nationality ; that the Speciol Officer 
knowing of this intention conveyed to respondent No. 1 that 
he could make the declaration P . 3 . The petitioner states 
that the facts : - -thut no special training was given to respon 
dent No . 1 for sending him on secret assignment, his acade 
mical qualifications being only matilculation , that his age 
was only 23, that he was a freedom fighter who worked 
against the Portuguese before Liberation , that the exit and 
re- entry permit mentions only two countries and not others , 
that the secret mission was nowhere mentioned in the Goy 
31 G of 1 / 73 — 2 . 


ernment correspondence now beforc thc Court, that the 
Government of God was not informed about the secret 
mission inspite of franticc inquiries and crash wireless mess 
nges regarding the issue of citizenship , that the assignment 
was mainly against Portugal And yet Portugal was not 
visited . That the expenses were shared by respondent No . 1 
and Government though respondent No . 1 stated that the 
issue of sharing did not arise , that the Government paid 
respondent No. 1 in foreign currency in cash in Goa and was 
reimbursed in Indian currency, that the persons who handed 
over money to respondent No. 1 in foreign countries were not 
known to respondent No . 1, that persons in foreign countries 
who delivered messages to respondent No . 1 were connected 
with the secret work , that respondent No. 1 docs not remen 
ber even a single name of the friends in Portugal, that 
rcspondent No. 1 admits that accounts were given to the 
Government but no copy was maintained ; that the mission 
to all countries was secrct ,, and that messages received from 
Portugal werc dilivered to respondent No. 1 in London by 
word of mouth ; are facts that show that the alleged secret 
mission was absurd . I have considered all these facts which 
according to the petitioner indicate that the secret mission 
was an absurdity . It seems to me that the fact that respon 
dent No. 1 had a Portugueso passport. This is definitely a 
besides his desire to visit Portugal there was other work 
that respondent No. 1 had to perform during his visit abroad . 
It is common ground that respondent No. 1 was to go to 
Portugal to settle some private affairs there. It is evident 
that the connection of respondent No. 1 with some work 
which was against the interest of Portugal made the visit or 
respondent No. 1 impossible inspite of the fact that respon 
dent No . 1 had a Portuguese passport. This is definitely a 
pointer to the fact that respondent No. 1 was abroad on a 
secret eiland given by thc Government of India whoso rela 
tions with Portugal were at that time cxtremely strainod 
because of the recent Liberation of Gon . The petitioner 
contends that it would be absurd to send a freedom fighter 
on a secret mission . By advancing this agreement the peti 
tioner admits that respondent No. 1 was freedom fighter and 
that also is the case of rospondent No . 1 , Handoo supports 
respondent No . 1 on this point. It appears to me quito 
logical that a freedom fighter whose allgeiance to India 
could not be questioned and who had an ostensible reason 
to go to Portugal would be the most suitable person to go 
to Portugal on a Portuguese passport. His ostensible retention 
of Portuguese citizenship and passport would hoodwink tho 
Portuguese . The petitioner s admission that respondent No . 
1 and the Government were sharing tho oxponses of socret 
mission pre - surposes the existence of the secret mission and 
therefore the sharing of the expenses cannot render the secret 
miggion absurd , but quito on tho contrary it confirms that tho 
mission existed . It came to light in the course of the cross 
examination of respondent No. 1 that ho had started building 
a Coca - Cola Factory in Goa even berore he left Goa in 
April, 1962 and judging by the time the factory took to be 
built, it appears that the factory is of considerable size and 
a lot of investment was made in it by respondent No. 1 
This fact indicates that the intention of respondent No. 1 
was to continue to stay in Goa and such continuation of 
stay is in consonance with his casc that he had no intention 
to looşc his Indian citizenship . It is the case of the petitioner 
that the secret mission was concocted by respondent No. 1 
and 3 acting in collusion , but the petitioner has by his 
application dated 29- 7 - 1971 withdrawn all the allegations 
made against respondent No. 3 when he sought to drop this 
respondent. The petitioners cannot therefore be heard to 
say that there was a collusion between respondents 1 and 3 . 


45 In tho light of the analysis I have made of the oral 
evidenco on record regarding the secret mission and looking 
at the whole question on a broader perspectivo , the facts 
which according to thc petitioner render the secret mission 
an absurdity assume almost negligible importance . 


46 . The power of Handoo to ask the respondent No. 1 to 
go on a secret mission and to retain his Portuguese passport 
was challenged by the petitioner . In this regard respondent 
No. 1 has stated in the course of his cross -examination that 
Handoo had told him that he was acting under Goverment 
instructions whenever he was giving instruction to respondent 
No. 1 regarding his passport and citizenship that he never 
had any neuson to doubt the power of Handoo to give such 
instructions; that he has not ascertained from Handoo what 
Was his power in regard to the retention of Portuguese 
passport or granting of Indian citizenship . Handoo has stated 
that from 1955 to 1958 he was an Officer on Special duty 
in the Ministry of External Affairs dealing with foreign 


2136 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 10 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

[ PART 11 

- - = = - * - — 9 - I 
intclligence and security and also foreigo security in relation statement P . 15 , the Deputy Secretary , Homo wrote to the 
to Goa; that from 1958 to 1960 he was posted as Comman Secretary to the Government of India , M . H . A ., stating that 
dant of the Central Police College at Mount Abu in the iespondent No. 1 intended to surrender his Portuguese pass 
state of Rajasthan ; that while he was in Mount Abu, he was port after his return ; that he was engaged in building a 
given special charge of the files of Goan affairs to make a factory of cold Jiinks in Goa ; that there was nothing 
special study thereof as he was to take over as Additional adverse against him and that there was no objection in 
Inspector General and Commandant of Border Security granting him stay up to October, 1963. On the 15th October , 
Force of God , Daman and Diu in November, 1960; that 1963, respondent No. 1 mado another application for ex 
was the reason why he was intimately interested in Goan 

tontion of stay in India (P . 22 ) stating therein that his per 
affairs ; that in November, 1960 he was appointed Additional 

manent address was Campal, Panjim , Goa ; that ho had re 
Inspector General of Police of Maharashtra and Commandant 

turned to be with his family ; that he is retaining his pass 
of Border Security Force of Goa, Daman and Diu ; that he 

port for one trip originally planned for October and that his 
held this appointment from November, 1960 to December , 

intention is to apply for Indian passport on his return . On 
1961 when he was posted as Special Advi . cí to the Military 

25 -4 - 1964 the respondent No. 1 was given a notice by the 
Governor of Goa , Daman and Diu that he was competint 

Registration Officer to show cause why he should not be 
to ask respondent No. 1 to retain his Portuguese passport 

prosecuted for contravening tho provisions of the Forcigners 
and proceed on top secret mission ; that he was appointed as 

Act and Rules (P . 28 ). By Exh . P . 30 dated 29 -4 - 1964 the 

Registration Officer warned respondent No . 1 that he could 
Special Adviser to tho Military Governor and latter on yo 
the Lieutenant Governor by the Government of India who 

not continue to stay without registration . Inspite of these 
Lud issued an 2 .110 tincnt under which contained his powers 

warnings respondent No. 1 was not prosecuted for reasons 
and functions. When Handoo was asked what he meant by the 

which apparently strengthen the case of the respondent No. 1 

and his claim to Indian citizenship is not out of place . 
words , " I was competent to ask respondent No . 1 to retain 
his Portugucse passport and pioceed on top socict assign 
ment" , he replied that he meant that he had the authority of 50 . The documentary evidence which I have considered 
the then Foreign Secretary in the Ministry of External Affairs above regarding the point raised by the petitioner on the 
of Government of India to suggest the retention of the basis of the retention by him of the Portugucse passport is 
Portuguese passport by the respondent No. 1 and give him in accordance with the oral evidence which I shall presently 
the secret assignment on which he was later sent llc ad consider . 
mitted that he did not have any written authority from the 
then Foreign Secretary , Shri M . G . Desai who is now dcad . 

31. Respondent No . 1 has stated that whatever was donc 
When he was asked whether he had anything to show that 

by him in connection with the holding of a Portuguese pass 
ho had such authority , besides his word , Handoo replied 

port until 15 - 1 - 1964 or in connection with its use was dono 
that " ho would not know " . To a suggestion made to him that 

on instructions from Handoo on behalf of the Government 
he had no authority to suggest to the respondet No. 1 to 

of India ; that when he returned from abroad in October, 1962 
retain Portugueso passpoit and to proceed on top secret he had no personal reason for holding the Portuguese passport; 
Assignment he replied that the suggestion was completely in 

that on Tandoo s instructions he followed all formalities such 
correct. When he was asked whether he was officially ap 

as applying for residence permits and doing whatever was 
pointed by the Government after November , 1962 in relation necessary for getting the permission renewed ; that his statement 
to the security of Goa , he replied that he was not holding 

dated 23 - 11- 1962 made before the Police at Panjim was 
any official position after November , 1962. An important 

mude because Handoo told him to take the position that 
piece of evidence that shows that Handoo had the power 

he was uncertain as to whicther he would remain in Goa or 
in regard to passport is P . 4 . He accepted that letter which 

go abroad and also as to whether he should return the 
was addressed to him and endorsed therein a direction to 

Portuguese passport in the event of his going abroad ; that 
the Special Officer M . E . A . who was in charge of passports 

the idea was that he should take the position that if he had 
And who complicd with the direction of Handoo . 

gone abroad họ might retain his Portuguese passport; that 

the idea 46 conveyed to him by Handoo was that he should 
47. I have now to discuss the documentary evidence re take the position that if he went abroad he might retain 
garding the secret mission and the legal effect of P . 3 . How his Portugucse passport and that if he remained ho would 
cver , before I do that I would like to consider the documen not retaln Portuguese passport ; that Handoo told him that 
tary and oral evidence regarding the contention of the peti this was the position that would enable him to get a resi 
tioner that the continued holding of the Portuguese passport 

dence permit here without attracting attention and at the 
by the respondent No . 1 after his return from abroad in same time would enable him to hold the Portuguese passport 
October, 1962 indicates that the respondent No. 1 did not without attracting attention of the Portugucse Government, In 
retain his Portuguese passport because of tho secret mission , his cross -examination he stated that the ostensible reason why 
but because he wanted to retain his Portugucse citizenship he retained the Portuguesc passport after his ieturn was that 
to settle abroad . 

ho was undecided whether he would settle here or abroad , 

but that the real reason for his retaining the Portuguese 
48. It is true that in Exh , P . 12 respondent No. 1 stated that 

passport was an assignment given to himn in official confi 
he wanted to remain in Goa for six months under his Portu 

dence of which the details are in secret files of the Goy . 
guese passport as he was thinking of settling abroad . How 
cvor , in the next sentence he stated that if at the end of 

ernment; that the last instructions he took from Handna 

were when he told him to return his passport on 15 - 1 - 1964; 
that period he had decided to remain in India , it was his in 

that he did not remember whether the instructions that he 
tention to give up his Portugliese passport. He also stated 

would be able to make a trip later and that he should continue 
in P . 12 that he did not believe that it would be possible 

to retain Portugese passport and that he should comply 
for him to do all the things that he intended doing if he 

with formalitics and take due precautions , were given to him 
had settled abroad , if he had carried an Indian passport. He 

in his first or second visit to Handoo after his return from 
further stated that if he bacl settled abroad , the work that he 

abroad ; that the written part of the instructions regarding 
had in mind would involve travelling in Portugal, Angola 

the mission was given at one sitting ; that the oral part of 
and Mozambique. These statements , muist he road in the 
context of the case of the lespondent No . 1 and of the 

the instructions was given in two sittings ; that he did not 

remember when the advico to continue to retain the Port 
copious evidenco in support of that case , a part of which 

guese passport, cornplying with formalities and taking due 
I have already discussed . 

precaution was given to him by Handoo that he did not 

remember whether they were given to him at the first or 
49 . P . 12 was the first statemont respondent No. 1 made 

the second meeting; that the advice was given to him in 
after bis return from abroad for the purpose of obtaining 

ont of these two meetings; that thereafter Hindoo ncver 
& permit to stay in Goa . When he made another applica 

advised him to go to Portugal; that whatever applications 
tion on 5 - 4 - 1963 ( P . 15) to cxtend his stay for a further 

he male after he came to Goa ware made for complying 
period . hc stated that his permanent addıcss was in Campal, 

with the formalitics and keeping up the pretence that he was 
Panjir , Goa, that he hact returned to be with his family 

a Portugucse citizen . 
and that the reasons foi his extending his story were for re 
taining Portuguese passport for one trip in October, his in 
tention being to apply for an Indian passport on return . 

52 On the question that I am presently discussing the 
These statements aro in consonance with the case of the testinioney of Handoo is that under instructions from him , 
respondent No. 1 that he continued to retain his Portuguese respondent No. 1 , on his return from abroad , contacted him 
pasaport after he returned from abioad , undei instructions at Panjim ; that he instructed respondent No. 1 to retain 
from Handoo with a view to undertaking one more trip for his Portuguese passport till such time as he had decided to use 
the purpose of carrying out the ecrct mission on the him again or ask him to relinquish it that respondent No . 1 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Sle , 3 ( 18 ) i THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 10 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2137 
- - - -- 

- - - - - : 
rctained his Portuguese passport till such time as lie asked No. SA / 76 /62 
him to relinquish it; that ho askod him to relinquish it soine dated 30 -4 - 1962 
time in December , 1963 or January 1964. that he askud 
respondent No. 1 to retain his Portuguese passport in order 
that he could comply with the assignment that was given to 

Plcago soc , I had spoken to you about this. The 
him ; that respondent No. 1 applied for a residence permit 

applicant has to go back to Portugal with reference 
After his return from abroad in 1962 under his instructions 

to his entanglement with & white Portuguese lady 
as he desired that respondent No. 1 should retain his Portu 

and has to finally settlo their domestic issue and 
gliese passport . In his cross- examination ho was asked by 

return . He will then tako over in Indian passport 
Shri Bhandarc why the formality of ipplying for residen 

which could be issue as he will renounco Portu 
tial permit by respondent No . 1 was necessary after his rc 

guese Nationality . Please issue him re - entry 
turn to Goa and he replied that it was necessary to guard 

permit as desired at A above . 
the top secret assignment that he was on . He wag again asked 
by Shri Bhandare whether he remained on top secret mission 

Sd /- Illegible , 
after his return from abroad and the reply was in the 

28 - 4 " . 
affirmative . Shri Bhandare again asked Handoo why was 
respondent No. 1 required to keep a Portugliese passport 
ofter his return to Goa and the answer was that it was to 

The main conteníion around p . 4 is that it was written 

by respondent No. 1 not to record down an agreement with 
guard the top secret assignment against disclosure . 

Handoo regarding the retention of the Portugucse passport, as 

contended by respondent No. 1 , but for the purpose of obtal 
53 I have considered the entire evidence on 1ccord and ning a rc -entry permit . Sbri Bhandare argucs that the words 
the demanour of the respondent No. 1 in the witness box. " as agreed " do not relate to the retention of the Portuguese 
His clear , unhesitating and firm answers have impressed me passport but to tho obtainining of a re -entry permit. However , 
us to their truthfulness . He was subjected to 4 lengthy and a plain reading of the letter does not support the argument 
searching Cross -examination which lasted for 11 days and of shri Bhandare . It is evident from the letter that respondent 
this afforded respondent No. 1 an opportunity of giving No, I called on Handoo in the morning of the day on wbich 
minute details about his activities whilst performing tho thc letter was written and that there was some agreement 
secret mission which details were not controverted . Instead of between them . The re -entry permit was formally being 
weakening the evidentiary value of his testimoney the cross issued by the Special Officer M . E . A . though , as it appears 
examination fortified it. It is on record that the father and from the letter , insti uction for that purpose were ordinarily 
l incle of the respondent No. 1 hold pro - Indian views l hat given by Handoo . If the call in the morning and the agreement 
respondent No . 1 comes from well-to - do - families and that that took place at that time was about the re -entry permit, 
there was nothing found against him by the investigation there was no accd whatsoever to record the fact that an agroc 
made by the C . B . I. He is a member of the Ilouyc of the ment had taken place between the respondent No. 1 and 
People for over 5 years. I see therefore no reason why his Handoo . Neither was it necessary that an agrocment should 
testimony should not be accepted . 

be entered into for the purpose of obtaining a re - entry per 

mit. A request would suffice , and Hundoo could on such 
54 . As for shri G . K . Handoo , I find that he is a comp 

request, even if it wero mercly oral, issuo instructions, 
letely independent witneys. He was occuping high position 

written or even oral, to the special Officer to grant a re 
under the Government of India and was entrusted with the 

entry permit to respondent No. 1. Neither can it be said that 
very responsible assignment of advising the Military Governoi 

the retention of the Portuguese passport by respondent No. 1 
and the Licutenant Governor in the critical days that succeeded 

had to be informed to Handoo for the purpose of oh 
the Liberation of Gox , Danian and Diu from 

taining a re - entry permit or otherwice. A person holding 

Portuguesa 
domination , on special matters , which obviously included 

an Indian passport doce not reguire a re - entry permit and 
political and other important affairs. A person who had been 

the fact that the re - entry permit was asked for indicates 

that the respondent No . 1 was holding a foreign passport 
worthy of such trust on the part of the Governmcnt of 
India is to my mind worthy of full credit . 

and intended to travel on it. In view of these facts , 
holding a foreign passport and intenden to travel on it. In 

view of these facts, and of the fact that respondent No. 1 
55 . It appears to me that the evidencc up to now lig 

hud at the outset placed on record in P . 4 the fact that he 
cussed was by itself sufflcient to fully support the care of 

had a meeting with Fandoo in the morning of 27 - 4 - 1962, 
respondent No . 1. There are , however, on record documents 

the agreemont referred to in P . 4 appears to me an agrec 
of extremely great evidentiary value which I shall proceed 

ment to retain the Portuguese passport. It is true that the 
to consider . 

respondent No . 1 states in P . 4 that the Portuguese 
passport is retained to enable him to vist Portugal 

and see a very peisonal friend for personal reasons , 
56 . The first relevant documents is Exh . P . 4 , in view of 

but this fact is easily explained if the existence of the 
its importance it would be convenient to reproduce it here : - - assignment to respondent No. 1 of a top secret mission is 

accepted . As it appears from the record , the ostensible 
CAMPAI reason for retention of the Portuguese passport was the 

PANJIM visit of respondent No . 1 to Portugal to see a personal 
27th April, 1962 friend of his, Respondent no . 1 also stated in the letter 

that he was registering his passport at the Police on the advice 

of Handoo . This fact was admitted by shri Bbandare whilst 
CONFIDENTIAL 

Cross -exainining Handoo , P . 4 ends with the following 

statement : " I shall be seeing you to hand over this letter 
MR . G . K . HANDOO 

immediately after " . It is unusual for a person to state in 
SPECIAL ADVISER 

a letter that he would be seeing the addresse of a letter to 
GOA . 

hand over the letter. It appcars from this latter fact thut 
DFAR MR, HANDOO : 

the handing over of the letter was also part of a deal 
entered into between Handoo and the respondent No. 1 

and that the letter way written for placing down on record 
Confirming my call on you this morning, I , as agicall, 

the existence of such deal, in order not to jeoparadize the 
write to advise you that I wish to ictain my Portile 

claim of respondent No. 1 to Indian citizenship . 
guese passport No. 703 / 58 issued at Gon for the 

As we have seen the oral evidence in this 
present to enable me to visit Portugal and see a very 

regard , given by both , the respondent No . 1 and Handoo 13 
personal friend on a highly personal reason. I 

that the draft of the letter P , 4 was given by Handoo and 
request that permission he gianted for me to leave 

the letter was written on his instructions and that the pur 
India on this passport, and would appicciate a le 

pose of the letter was to safeguard the citizenship rights of 
entry permit valid for six months being granted at 

respondent No. 1. If the intention of the respondent No. 1 
the same time. I am , as advised by you iegistering 

had been to retain his Portuguese passport and to register 
my passport at the Police , and I shall be sccinn, 

it, there would be 10 pecd to place on record that the pass 
you to hand over this latter immediately after. 

port was being retained and that its registration was being 
with compliments , 

Hone. In the note written below the letter, by Handoo and 

addressed to the Special Officer . Handoo states that he had 
Youts sincerely , 

spoken to the Special Officer about the letter and that tho 
Frarmo de Sequeii i respondent no . 1 would on his return take over an Indian 


2138 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[PART 11 


- 


- 


apreciate that the Special Officor should advice the Registrik 
Lion Officer " that respondent no . 1 was an Indian citizen " 
so that thç matter might be cleared up as for his registra 
tion as A forcigner was concerned , 


passport which could be issued as he would renounce 
Portuguese nationality . These observations made in the pole 
indicate that the agreement and the advice referred to in 
the letter had some connection with the retention of Indian 
nationality by respondent no . 1 and the acquisition by him 
of an Indian passport. It was urged before me by shri 
Bhandare that in his not Handoo speaks about the renoun 
ciation of the Portuguesc nationality by respondent no . 1 
and that Handoo has stated in his cross - examination that 
the purpose of writing the note was exactly as had been 
indicated in the note and that therefore thc utmost that 
can be said about P . 4 is that respondent no . 1 and Handoo 
agreed that respondent no . 1 should retain his Portuguese 
nationality and passport and thereafter renounce his Portu 
gues nationality and acquire Indian nationality . In the 
course of his cross - examination iespondent no . 1 had stated 
that the remark of Handoo in P . 4 that he would renounce 
his Portuguese nationality was not correct. He also repeatedly 
stated throughout his deposition that ho had never applied 
to obtain Indian citizenship and that he has all along 
claimed to have Indian citizenship . The petitioner himself 
nover challenged this position , Quite on the contrary ho 
stated that the Government of India granted to the respon . 
dent no . 1 two Indian passports and two ladian Diplomatic 
passports without the respondent no . 1 making any applica 
tion for renouncing Portuguese citizenship or obtaining 
Indian citizenship . It must also be remembered thot Handoo 
had stated in his deposition that the Special Officer was not 
informed about the secret mission. In his note addressed to 
the Special Officer he stated that an Indian passport could 
be issued to the respondent no . 1 on his return , Presumably 
because of the agreement that transpircs from P . 4 Handdo 
had to give some ostensible reason why an Indian pass 
port sbould be issued to respondent no . 1 on his return 
and this appears to be the reason why he infoimed the 
Special Oflicer that rospondent no . 1 would renounce his 
Portuguese nationality . He could not inform the Special 
Officer that the retention of the Portuguese passport by res. 
pondent no . 1 was fake , since ho had not taken the Special 
Officer into confidence regarding the secret mission. Handon 
had therefore to inform the Special Officer that Indian 
passport could be given to respondent no . 1 on his retur ) 
" as he would renounce his Portuguese Nationality " . It is 
pertinent to noto in this regard that Handoo stated in his 
cvidence that " his intention to issue the instructions con 
tained in the note was to make quite sure that respondent 
no . 1 and his Indian Citizenship rights should in no way be 
jeoperdized ." P . 4 has to be considered alongwith the other 
evidence on record , oral as well as documentary and not 
isolatedly . If so considered, the fact that Handoo mentioned 
in his note that the respondent no . 1 would renounce tis 
Portuguese nationality is not so important as the fact that 
he mentioned in his note that the respondent no . I could 
take over an Indian passport on his return . 


61. Io Exh. P . 33 respondent no . 1 requests the Under 
Secretary , Home, who was then also the Special Officer 
to arrange for his " claim to Indian citizenship to be accep 
ted " as carly as possible . On receipt of P . 33 thc Special 
Offlcer referred the matter to the S . S . P . for investige 
tion . The S . S . P . recorded down the statement of respon 
dent no. 1 and thereafter wrote ( P . 38 ) to the Special Officer 
10 say that there seemed to be no objection to grant Indian citi 
zenship to respondent no . 1 On the 24th August, 1964 the 
Chief Secretary by his letter ( Exh . P . 39) wrote to the 
Under Secretary, Government of India and solicited ins 
tructions as to whether respondent no. 1 could be consi 
dcied " to have become an Indian citizen " immediately after 
the surrender of his passport without undergoing the process 
of registration etc . required " the Rules " . Tho Urder Secre 
tary , Government of India by his letter dated the 2nd 
December, 1964 (Exh . P . 40 ) replied to the Chicf Sec 
retary to say that he was directed to state that on tho 
information furnished by the Chicf Secretary there is no 
objection to respondent no . 1 " being trented as an Indian 
citizen under " the Order " . " On the basis of P . 40 which 
was written by the Under Secretary , Government of India , 
under directions, which in ordinary course must be pic 
filmed to have been given by an Oficer of the Government 
of India authorised to give such directions, the Under Sec 
retary of the Goa Government informed respondent no . 1 
with reference to his request, that his " claim to Indian citi 
zenship " be accepted , that he was directed to state that the 
respondent no . 1 had prima facie become a citizen of India , 
by virtue of " the Order " . A copy of this letter (Exh . P . 41 ) 
of the Under Secretary of the Goa Goveinment dated the 
15th December , 1964 , was sent to the S . S . P . in reply to 
P . 38 , with a request to cancel the registration of respon 
dent no. 1 as a foreigner, in vicw of the Government ins 
tructions " to treat him as a citizen of India " . 


62 . On the 23rd February , 1965, the Government of 
Goa, Daman and Diu issued to the respondent no. 1 a 
passport bearing no . 176798 ( Exh , RI) . 


57 . The animus rovertend of the respondent no . 1 can 
easily be scen through the contents of P . 4 the various 
applications he made to continue his stay in India , his ic 
fusal to leave this country inspite of threats of prosecution . 
the construction of a large factory in Goa , the holding of 
Indian citizonship by the other members of his family , etc . 


63. These five documents , namely Exhs. P . 31 , 33, 39 ,40 
and 41 require no comments . They speak voluines and are 
clear evidence that the Government of India had always 
held that respondent no. 1 never ceased to be an Indian 
national. P . 41 whereby the Government of India certifies 
that prima facie respondent no . 1 become a citizen of India by 
virtue of " the Order " and the passport R . 1 were issued by the 
Government of India after the respondent no . 1 signed 
the declaration P . 3 renewed his passport in London in 1952 
and continued to hold it after 19th January , 1963 , notwith 
standing Clause 3A inserted in Schedule III to “ the Rules." 
This obviously shows that Government of India had very 
good reasons to by -pass these thiee facts and in the absence 
of why Suggestion niade or justibcation given by the petitioner 
as to the reasons why Government of India acted in that 
manner, I am bound to accept the only plausiblc explana 
lion given by the respondent no. 1 that all the aforesaid 
documents were signed and certificates issued because res 
pondent no. 1 had signed P . 3 involuntarily for the sole 
purpose of carrying out the secret mission regarding affairs 
of State . I have to conclude that the Govemment of India 
was aware that respondent no . 1 wanted to maintain his 
Indian citizenship , and that he signed P . 3 unintentionally , 
at the request of Handoo acting on behalf of the Govern 
ment for the purpose of going abroad in connection with 
affairs of State . 


58 . Exh . P . 5 is the exit and re - entry permit. It appears 
from this exhibit that the permit was given as a special caso 
and it is argued on behalf of respondent no . 1 that the fact 
that he was treated as a special casc gives some indication 
in the context of things, that the claim of respondent no . 1 
to Indian citizenship was not out of place . 


59 . Exh . R . 6 is the letter dated 18 - 1- 1963 written by 
respondent no . 1 to the Special Officer informing him that 
he was retaining bis Portuguese passport notwithstanding 
the insertion of Clausc 3.A in Schedule III to " the Rules " 
and that information was being given to the Special 
Officer to enable respondent no. 1 to obtain his Indian 
passport in due course . It is evident from this exhibit that 
respondent no . 1 reiterates his claim to Indian Passpoit 
and consequently to Indian citizenship and that respondent 
No. 1 did not feel that application for Indian citizenship and 
passport as necessary . 


64. It is contended by Shri Bhandare that when P . 41 was 
issued to respondent no . 1 the Government of India was 
not aware that respondent no . 1 had signcd P . 3 because 
the Government of Goa had, in collusion with respondent 
no . 1, suppressed from the Government of India , the fact 
that P . 3 had been signed by respondent no . 1. This 
Argument based on collusion has to be rejected because the 
petitioner has withdrawn all the allegations made against 
respondent no . 3 i.e . " the Union of India by the Administra 
tor of the Union Territory of Goa , Daman and Diu " 
Under Section 3 (a ) of the General Clauses Act, the Central 
Government, in relation to tho administration of a Union 
Territory , includes the Administiator thereof and this is the 
reason why the petitioner has referred to the respondent no . 


60 . Exh . P . 31 is the letter which respondent no . 1 wrote 
to the Special Omcer , when he was asked by the Regis 
tration Officer to get himself registered as a foreigner and 
WAS threatened with being prosecuted for want of such less 
gistration . In P , 31 respondent no . 1 states that he would 


$ EC, 3 ( ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2139 
- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - --- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 3 - - - -- - - - - 7 - - - - -- - - - - - - - - --- --- - 

- - - - - - - - - 
3 as " Union of India , by the Administrator of the Union him as a citizen of India and had closed the matter, it was 
Territory of Goa , Daman and Diu " . Tho withdrawal of possible that the question may be raised sometimne in future 
the allegations regarding collusion against the respondent and that, therefore , he requested that the citizenship certi 
no . 3 includes such withdrawal against the Administration ficate under Section 13 of " the Act" be issued to him . On 
of Goa , Daman and Dieu . In paragraph 3 ( n ) of his pctitioner 27 - 7 - 1970 the Joint Secretary replied to respondent no . 1 
states that P . 41 was , to the knowledge of the third res that since the Goa Administration had already informed 
pondent, false and erroneous and contrary to the docu him by P . 41 that he had prima facic become a citizen of 
mentary evidence in their possession . The expression “ erro India by virtue of " the order " , the necessity of a certificate 
nçous and contrary to the documentary cvidence in their alluns and that all that timne another Diplomatic passport 
possession " might have been used by tho petitioner to ex under section 13 did not arise . On 24 - 10 - 1970 whilst the 
press the fact that P . 41 was issued inspite of the know question of the citizenship of respondent no . 1 was being 
ledge of the respondent no. 3 that respondent no . 1 had agitated anew by the Government of Gou, the Goa Govern 
renewed his Portuguese passport in London and had conti ment issued to respondent no . 1 an Indian passport bearing 
nued to retain it beyond 19th January , 1963, inspite of no . 935474 (Exh . R . 2 ) . On 17 - 8 - 1971 the Government of 
Clause 3 A of the Schedule III to " the Rules" . But the word India issued to respondent no . 1 an Indian Diplomatic bearing 
" false " uscd in paragraph 3 (n ) appears to indicate that res no. D 011096 and the respondent no . 1 has stated in his 
pondent no . 3 had also the knowledge that P . 3 had been deposition that in December , 1971 he was asked by the 
signed by respondent no. 1, In fact, respondent no . 3 ought to Government during the war to stand by to go to the United 
have and indeed had the knowledge that P . 3 had been Nations and that at that time another Diplomatic passport 
signed by respondent no. 1. I say so because the respondent was issued to him which he did not collect because it did 
no . 3 knew that respondent no . I had left India on a 

not become necessary to go . 
Portuguese passport and had renewed it in London in 1962 . 
A Portuguese national could hold at that time a Portuguesa 

67. No explanation was given by the petitioner as to why 
passport without signing a declaration like P . 3 , but he Exhibits P . 52 , P . 53 and R . 3 , were issued except thut 
had necessaruy to sign such a cleclaration if he were to " travel" the Government of India was in collusion with respondent 
on such passport. Respondent no . 3 therefore had con no . 1 and that these exhibits P . 52 and R . 3 were issued 
structive knowledge not only that respondent no . 1 had signed in contravention to the provisions of law . I accept the 
P . 3 , but that he had registered his Portuguese passport with argument of respondent no . 1 that P . 52 and R . 3 were issucd 
the registration Officer and had also registerod himself as for the same reasons for which P . 40 and P . 41 were issued , 
a Portuguçse national, I say that respondent no. 3 in fact 

which reasons I have already mentioned above. 
had the knowledge that respondent no . 1 had signed P . 3 , 
because when in 1969 the Goa Administration re -raised the 68 . It is further contended by Shri Bhandlare that tho fact 
subject of the citizenship of respondent No . 1, the Goa that respondent no. 1 signed P . 3 because of he secret mission 
Administration informed Government of India that P . 3 had does not imply that P . 3 was not signed by respondent no. 
been signed by respondent No . 1 and yet, Govt. of India reite 1 voluntarily . Shri Bhandare argues that the respondent 
rated the stand that respondent No . 1 was a citizen of India by no. 1 willingly accepted the secret mission and was even 
virtue of " the Order " . Besdes , the pettioner has averred in para prepared to sacrifice his lefe and that, therefore , respondent 
graph 3 (n ) of his petition that the Administration of Goa , no . 1 must be presumed to have also been prepared to sac 
Wanan and Diu having " knowledge that respondent No. 1 

rifice his Jadian citizenship . It is argued by Shri Bhandare 
had signed P . 3 , had , for reasons best known to the Adminis that even if there was an understanding between the Govern 
tration , issued P . 41 to respondent no . 1. Now , the Ad ment of India and respondent no . 1 regardiny the secret 
ministration of Goa, Daman and Diu is a part of the Central mission and the signing of P . 3 , such an understanding is not 
Government and is included in it. Therefore the “ knowledge" suficient to nullify the effect of P . 3 and that the Govern 
of the Administration amounts to the " knowledge of the ment cannot consider respondent no . 1 a citizen of India 
Central Government and the Central Government is deemed by by - passing the requirements of " the Act " , even if they 
to have had " knowledge that P . 3 was signed by respon were instrumental in making respondent no . 1 sign P . 3 
dent no . 1 . What I said about the word " knowledge " in para 

Shri Bhandare states that by signing P . 3 a certain legal 
graph 3 ( n ) applies to the expression " for reasons best known 

situation was created by respondent No. 1 and that that 
to thein " occurring in the said paragraph . The petitioner 

situation can be corrected only by following the provsions 
is correct when he says that P . 41 was issued to respondent of " the Act " and not by circumventing them ; and that the 
nu. 1 for reasons best known to them i.e . to the Goa only course open to the Government of India , in view 
Administration and thereford to the Central Governinent. 

of P . 3 , was to grant to the respondent no . 1 citizenship 
under one of the ways provided by Section 3 to 6 of " the 

Act" . 
65. It is argued by Shri Bhandare that from P . 40 it can 
safely be inferred that P . 41 was issued from information 

69. I have already considered both thcsc points in a diffcr 
furnished to the Government of India by letter P . 39 and 

ont context. The argument that, since respondent no . 1 was 
that P . 39 makes no reference to P . 3 . In view or what 

prepared to sacrifice his life , he must be presumed to have 
I have already stated this arguement does not survive . For 

also been prepared to sacrifice his India citizçnship does not 
similar reasons and because the fact of mis- representation 

appeal to me. Besides, the assumption of shri Bhandare that 
is not alleged in the petition , I have also to reject the con 

respondent no. 1 was sacrificing his Indian citizenship whilst 
tention that P . 41 was obtained by mis- representation . 

bigning P . 3 indicates that the loss of Iudian citizenship was 
a sacrifice for respondent no . 1 . A sucrifice is a thing clone 
by some contrary to his liking . This implies that the 

loss of Indian citizenship and therefore the retention of 
66 . In 1969 the question of the citizenship of respondent no. Portuguese citizenship was not palatable to respondent no , 
I was revived . A wireless message (P . 43 ) was sent on 3 - 7 -1969 1 . There is a fallacy in the argument of Shri Bhandare , 
by the Chief Secretary to the Additional Secretary , Govern becausc as far as life was concerned hc was " prepared " 
ment of India , M . H . A ., stating that respondent no . 1 had to sacrifice it, l.o ., he was taking the risk to his life, but 
made the dcclaration P . 3 . The wireless message was followed as far as Indian citizenship was concerned there was no 
on the next day by a most iminediate letter (Exh . P . 44 ) question of his being prepared to loose it or taking any risk 
forwarding a long note regarding the citizenship of reapon atout losing it. The question was not contingent upon the 
dent no. 1, a photostat copy of P . 3 and a copy of the happening of any future event, but it was a question of res 
wireless message . Significantly enough P . 4 which , Shri pondent No. I losing it outright. When respondent No . 1 agreed 
Bhundare admits , ought to have been in the same file in to yo abroad on the secret mission , hc accepted the risk of los 
which P . 3 and other papers regarding the citizenship of ing his life , whereas when he signed P . 3 he would fortwith be 
jespondent no . 1 were hept, was not sent along with P . 44 losing his Indian citizenship , if the signing of P . 3 under 
P . 4 was not sent until it was called for by the Governmont such contingency was to have the legal effect that Shri 
of India . On 26 -7 - 1970 the Joint Secretary , Government of Bhandare argues , it should have . A person who was pre 
India , M . H . A ., wrote a letter ( Exh . P . 52 ) 10 respondent no . pared lo sacriſicc his life on account of his country would 
1 stating that with reference to the correspondence about not voluntarily do an act which involved the loss of the 
the " claim of Indian citizenship " by respondent no . 1 , the citizenship of his country . It would therefore , be illogical 
matter had been reconsidered by the Government and that to say that even if that person had done an act an involun 
it had been decided that the matter should be treated as tarily the legal consequence of the act should follow . In 
closed . On 27- 7 - 1970 respondent no . I wrote to the Joint Md. Ayub Khan v . Cominissioner of Police , Madras and 
Secretary, Governnient of India , a letter ( Exh , P . 53 ) stating Others AIR 1965 SCC . 1623 the appellant Ayub 
that while the Govornment of India had continued to accept 

Khan 
petitioner the High Court of Madras for a writ of mandamu 


2140 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISIHA 26 , 1895 

[ PART II — 
- - - - - .. 

- - - - 
restraining the Commissioner of Police , Mudras, from taking citizen by virtue of Section 9 ( 1 ) of the Act; that the fact 
action pursuant to the order of the Government of Madras that Modi still held a Malaysian passport supports the plea 
and from intorfering with the appellant s rights as a citizen that Modi had relinquished Indian citizenship : that the Indian 
of India . The appellant claimed that he had acquired the citizenship automatically terminated under Section 9 ( 1 ) of 
status of an Indian citizen from the commencement of the the Citizenship Act the moment Modi acquired Singapore 
Constitutior . He was served with a notice informing him citizenship by registration ; that the fact that the petitioner 
that as he had obtained a Pakistani passport he should leave visited Indian on several occasions is irrelevant becauso a 
India . He applied to the Central Government for allording foreigner can also visit India on a valid passport. Modi 
him an opportunity to prove that he had not lost his Indian relied on AIR 1965 $ . C ., which I have just now considered . 
citizenship . His application was dismissed , without affording Government of Andhra Pradesh v . Sayed Md. Khan AIR 
him in opportunity . The High Court held that the appellant 1962 SC 1778 was also relied upon . A similar contention 
" had in fact made a declaration on the basis of which the was raised by the Government in AIR 1962 S . C ., that as 
passpoit was obtained and the allegations made by him boon as it is shown that person has acquired a passport from 
did not cvcn imply that he was forced to inake a false deca a foreign Governnient his citizenship of India automatically 
laration " . In the view of lligh Court Section 9 lays an comes to an end and that in such a case it is not necessary 
objective test and when the individual had brought himself that the Government should hold an inquiry and make find 
within it , the law determines the legal consequences of the 

ing. ( It must be remembered that a passport cannot be 
situation independently of his intent or understand and there 

obtained tlnless a person is a citizen of the country of which 
was no scope for an inquity of the naturc claimed by the the passport was issued . ) . The Supreme Court negatived 
appollant. Paragraph 3 of the Schedule to the Citizenship these contentions and opined that they were clcarly mis 
kules raises a conclusive presumption that a citizen of India 

conceived . Therefore in Modi s case the Delhi High Court 
who has obtained a passport from a foreign country on 

held that the acquisition by a person of a foreign passport 
any dale , has before that date voluntarily acquired citizenship 

did not permit the Government to come to the conclusion 
of that other country . By the application of the rule in 

that the person was a foreign citizen without making an 
paragiaph 3 the authority must regard the obtaining of a 

inquiry whether the foreign citizenship was acquired volun 
foreign passport on a particular date as conclusive proof 

tarily , when the plea that it was acquired involuntarily , was 
that the Indian citizen had voluntarily acquired citizenship of 

raised by the person . I have already discussed how 
any comiy hefore that dito . ( Ayub Khan obtained his 

the secret mission has affected the volition of respondent 
passport on the strength of a declaration ). The Supreme 

no . 1 in signing P . 3 and I have held that the existence of 
Court observed that obtaining of a passport of a foreign 

the secret mission WALS a compelling factor which rendered 
country cannot in all cases merely mean receiving the pass 

the signing of P . 3 involuntarily . The question of by passing 
port; that if tho ploa is raised by tho citizen that he had not 

the provisions of law by Government, alleged by Shri Bhan 
voluntarily obtained the passport the citizen must be afforded 

dare , and of a certain legal situation being created on account 
an opportunity to prove that fact ; that A caso must be visua 

of P . 3 , does not arise . Ay I have already decided in the 
lized in which on account of fraud or mis- representation he 

earlier part of my judgement, P . 3 is deemed to have no 
may be induced without any intention of renounciation of 

legal effect at all and to create no legal situation ; if it 19 
his Indian citizenship , to oblain a passport from a foreign 

accepted that Government was instrumental in making rc9 
country ; thut it would be difficult to say that such a pass 

pondent no . 1 sign P . 3 on account of the societ mission . 
port is one which has been obtained within the meaning of 

If P , 3 docs not in luw exist, no provisions of law can be 
paragraph 3 of Schedule IL and that a conclusive presump 

said to have been by passed by Government whilst issuing 
tion must arise that he has acquired voluntarily citizenship 

P . 41, P . 52 and R . 3 . 
of that countıy . The High Court in appea ] was of the 
view that Section 9 laid down an objective test and once 

70 . The case of the petitioner is that when there was a 
it was found that the passport was obtained in fact by an 

split in the congress in 1969 and the meinbers of the Parlia 
Indian citizen from another country , the law determined tho 

ment were divided , the Ruling Party was not in absoluto 
legal consequences of that conduct and no question of his 

majority after the split and thercforo thc support of respon 
" inlention or understanding" arose. The Supreme Court 

dent no . 1 was sought; that respondent no . 1 was in the 
Jisagreed with this vicw . According to the Supreme Court 

beginning reluctant give his support to the Congress Party 
if voluntary acquisition of the citizenship of another country 

because the policies of the United Goans woro close to 
determined Indian citizenship within the meaning of Sec 

that of the Swatantra Party ; that because respondent no . 1 
tion 9 of Sub -section ( 1 ) and by virtue of paragraph 3 of 

was reluctant to give his support P . 3 was shown to him 
Schedule IIT to the citizenship Rules the conclusivo presump 

and he had to agree to support the Ruling Party ; that there 
tion voluntary acquisition is to be raised from the obtaining 

after he continued to vote with the Ruling Party ; that an 
of a passport fiom the Government of any other country , 

electoral alliance for elections of the Assembly between the 
it would be implicit that the obtaining of a passport was 

U .G . Party , to which respondent 110 . I belonged , and the 
the result of the exercise of free volition by the citizen . This 

Ruling Party was entered into hecause the Ruling Party 
view , the Supreme Court held , is strengthened by the scheme 

brought pressuro to bear upon the respondent no. 1 by 
of Section 9 ( 2 ) read with Rule 30 which contemplates an 

threating to expose the nationality of respondent No. 1 . The 
inquiry by an authority prescribed under Sub - section (2 ) 

facts constituting the case of tho pctitioner were put to the 
for determination of the question whicther citizenship of an 

respondent no . 1 in the course of cross - examination and they 
other country has been acquired by an Indian citizen . The 

were outright denied . Respondent No . 1 answered that he 
Court-therefore held that the obtaining of a passport was not 

voted for President Giri because President Giri himself had 
the implicit result of the exercise of free volition by a citizen 

telephoned to him and that after 1969 and upto the date 
and the appeal way therefore allowed . The other case that 

of his deposition he had sometimes voted against the Ruling 
meets the contention of Shri Bhandare is “ K . L . Modi i . 

Party . There is nothing else on record to substantiate this 
Union of India AIR 1970 Delhi 76 ." Modi, the writ peti 

case of the petitioner . Besides this case no other case was 
tioner in that case , was an Indian citizen doing business 

sought to be made out. It was not suggested that Exbs. 52 
in Singapore . la 1959 the political situation in Singapore 

and R . 3 were issued because of the support of respondent 
was such that Modi had either to leave Singapore leaving his 

no. 1 to the Ruling Party or because of the lectoral alliance . 
entire property and interests there unattended and return to 
India or to acquire Singapore citizenship . Compelled by 

71 . My conclusion is that P . 40 , P . 41 , P . 52 And R . 3 
these adverse circumstances, according to Modi s averment, 

support ihe case of the respondent 110 . 1 and that he signed 
he involuntarily acquired the citizenship of Singapore , but 

P . 3 without volition on account of the secret mission , 
he never relinquished Indian citizenship , nor had he the 
intention to do so . Throughout his stay in Singapore he 

72 . The evidence and the points up to now discussed settle 
had animus revertendi in relation to India which continued the question that respondent no . 1 is a citizen under " the 
to be his home. In 1959 Modi wanted to come to India Order" . 
to stay here for sometime with his family members , but he 
was told that, by virtue of his Singapoio citizenshin , he 

73 . Shii Polis Mehta argues that in fact ani in law 
could not leave Singapore without obtaining a Singapore P . 4 ) rcad with P . 52 is a citizenship certificate under sec 
passport, with the result that he was compelled to obtain tion 13 of " the Act" . The main objection to this argument, 
a Singapore passport. The Averment that the obtaining of raised by the petitioner , is that P . 41 was not signed by a 
he foreign passpoit in question was involuntary was denied . Secretary or a Joint Secretary to the Central Government 
When he camo to India on 4th March , 1967 he was detained OS l equired by " the Act : that there was no cortificate issued 
and deported without any reasons being assigned . The case in accordance with the form prescribed by the Schedulo to 
of the Government Wåg that 011 Modi s getting himself re " the Rules" ; that P . 41 was an opinion based on purposeful 
gistered as a citizen of Singapore , he ceilsed to be an Indian suppression of facts ; that the Goa Government had no 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

21 41 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 
powers in the matter of nationality ; that even if the God Go the Government of India in this regard must be deemed to 
verninent had powers , P . 41, was not issued in exercise of have been given . I nced not therefore refer tho question of 
those powers and that P . 41 docs not mention that it was loss of Indian citizenship to the Governpient in the present 
Issued under the powers conferred by Section 13 of " the caso . 
Act" . 

77 . I have considered the case of the parties in all its 

aspects, I discussed tho evidence in its minutest detaily , I have 
74 , Respondent no. 1 never upplied for Indian citizenship . carefully applied my mind to it and I come to the conclusion 
He claimed it as of right. This claim was repeatedly made that the respondent no . 1 was at the material time and 
in various documents of which P . 25, 31 and P . 33 are the continues to be an Indian citizen and was therefore not 
latest in these three documents made in the first half of disqualificd to be chosen as a member of thc Lok Sabha 
the ycar 1964 the respondent no . 1 requested the Govern in March , 1971. In the circumstances the election petition 
ment to formally accept his claim . By the letter P . 40 the fails . 
Under Secretary , Government of India , wrote to the Chief 
Secretary that he was directed to say that there was no 

ORDER 
objection to respondent no . 1 being treated as a citizen of 

The election petition is dismissed . Thero shall bo no 
India under " the Order . It is to be presumçd that in the 

order as to costy . 
normal courso the direction given to the Under Sccretary 
must have been given by an officer of the Government of 

TITO MENEZES , 
India authorised to give such direction . The direction was 

Judicial Commissioner. 
of the nature of a citizenship certificate . Pursuant to P . 40 

Dated : 161h March , 1973, 
the Goa Government issued the document P . 41 , wherein 
it is stated by the Under Secretary who signed it that he 

[No . 82 /Goa - IIP / 1 / 715 
was directed to say that respondent no . 1 had prima facic 

B N . BIARDWAJ, Under Secy . 
become a citizen of India by virtue of " the Order" . In 
Exh . P . 52 the Joint Secretary , Government of India , stated 
that the matter of the Indian citizenship of respondent no . 1 

भारत निर्वाचन आयोग 
has been considered by the Government in the light of his 
representation and that it has been decided that the matter 

आदेश 
should be treated as closed . In Exh , R . 3 the Joint Secre 
tary to the Government of India states that since the Gon 

75 fa seat, 11 He , 1973 
Administration had by Exh . P . 41 already informed the 
respondent no . 1 that he had prima facic become a citizen 20 . 346. 1866. -* : fafen Brett 4T YHTET U Tren 
of India by virtue of " the Order " the necessity of a certifi 

है कि मार्च, 1972 में हए पश्चिमी बंगाल विधान सभा के लिए 
cato under Section 13 doos not arise . 

निर्वाचन के लिए 119-नईहटी निर्वाचन- क्षेत्र से सनाव लड़ने वाले 
75 . Shri Porus Mehta argues that the cumulative effect of 

उम्मीदवार श्री भोलानाथ भार, राय ए . टी . घोष , बहावर रोड , 
all these documents is the issue of a citizenship certificate 81920 - T TRA , Puter 24 - MT, POTIT, alia fa 
under Section 13. I am inclined to accept this argument. 
Even if the contention that P . 41 was not a certificate under 

निधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 सथा तद्धीन बानाए गए नियमों 
Scction 13 of " the Act" , in ag must as a Joint Secretary to द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल 
the Government of India has by Exh . R . 3 endorsed the 
declaration made in P . 41, P . 41 and R . 3 read together 

करने में असफल रह है 
must be deemed to be in substance a certificato under Sec 

और यसः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उस सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 
tion 13 . Tho Arguments of Shri Bhandare that the Goa 
Government had no powers to issue a certificate and that पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टि 
even if they had powers they did not use them , does not करण नहीं दिया है , और, निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान 
survive because P . 41 must be read together with P . 52 . 
The rest of the contentions of Shri Bhandarc relate to the हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण 
form . In this regard Shri Porus Mehta relies on Gorbandas 

या न्यायोचिस्य नहीं है , 
Purshottamdas Sonawala and Another vs. the Eastern Cotton 
Company 1959 SCR 346 . In that cause , under Scction ( 1 ) ___ अतः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 - 2 के अनुसरण 
of the Bombay Cotton Contracts Act any contract which was 
not in accordance with the by -laws of any recognized cotton 

में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्वारा उक्त श्री भोलानाथ भर को 
association was void . The blanks in the official contract संसद के किसी भी सवन के या किसी राज्य की विधान - सभा अथवा 
from , relating to measurements and differences above and 
below the settlement rutes were not filed in . The validity 

विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चने जाने और धोने के लिए इस आदेश 
of the contract was challenged . It was held that in the की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरीहत घोषित 
circumstances of the case thọ official contract form had to 
be filled in so far as it was practicable and that the omission That I 
to fill in the blanks in the contract notes did not 
spell any 

[ FT. . * . -FT. FT ./ 119 /72( 62) ] 
departure from an essential or A charac 
teristic part of the contract form and that conse 

ORDER 
quently the legal effect of the contracts was not in any 

New Delhi, the 11th May, 1973 
manner changed so as to render the contracts void as not 
being in accordance with the Bombay Cotton Contracts Act. S . O . 1666. - - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
It appears to me that in the present case also form VI made that Shri Bholanath Bhar, Raj A . T . Ghosh , Bahadur Road , 
under Rule 27 of " the Rules " was in its essenco adhered to P . O . Garifa , District 24 - Parganas, West Bengal, a contesting 
and the legal effect of Exh . P . 41 and R . 3 is rot affected. candidate for clection to the West Bengal Legislativo As 
Strict compliance with technicalities should not be required sembly from 119 -Naibati constituency held in March , 1972 
in view of the well accepted principle that an election should has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as 
ordinarily be upheld and not easily upsct. 

required by the Representation of the Pcople Act, 1951, and 
76 . Respondent no. 1 is a citizen of India under " the the Rulçs made thereunder ; 
Order" in view of tbe fact that no valid declaration wag 
made by bim linder the proviso to Clause 2 of " the Order" . And whereas , tho said candidate even after the duc notice 
Until 19th January , 1963 there was no bar to an Indian has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
citizen holding a Portuguese passport. Therefore his rcnewal the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no 
of tho Portuguese passport in London in 1962 does not imply good reason or justification for such failure . 
loss of Indian citizenship . His continuation of holding a 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Portuguese passport ofter 19th January 1963 might amount 
to the loss of Indian citizenship had it not been for the 

Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
compelling reasons which led him to maintain it . The quics 

Bholanath Bhar to bo disqualified for being chosen as, and 
tion of loss of Indian citizenship would have to be decided 

for being a member of cither House of Parliament or of 

the Legislative Assembly or Legislativo Council of a Stato 
by the Government in view of the provisions of Section 9 ( 2 ) 
of " the Act " . However, in view of the various documents 

for a period of three years from the date of this order. 
on record which I have discussed at length , the decision of 

[No. WB- I A / 119 / 72 (62 ) ] 


-- 


- 


2142 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

[ PART II - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- --- -- - - - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - -- 

ween - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - 
आवेरा 

अत: अभ , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 क के अनुसरण में 
का . आ . 1667. - यतः, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया । निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्वारा उक्त श्री नारायणपुरम ऐरन्ना को 
है कि मार्च, 1971 में हुए पश्चिमी बंगाल विधान सभा के लिए संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान -सभा अथवा 
निर्वाचन के लिए 131-जोरासंका निर्वाचन- क्षेत्र से लड़ने वाले विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश 
उम्मीदवार श्री मो . उमर, 90-बी , मदन मोहन बर्मन स्ट्रीट , की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरीहत घोषित 
कलकत्ता- 7 ( पश्चिमी बंगाल ) लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , करता है । 
1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने 
निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा पाखिल करने में असफल रहे 

स . आ . प्र. वि . स./ 175/72 ( 2) ] 


ORDER 


और यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने, उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 
पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टी 
करण नहीं दिया है , और, निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान 
हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण 
या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 


S . 0 . 1668.- - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Narayanapuram Eranna Narayanapuram Dhanapuram 
Post, Alur Taluk (Andhra Pradesh ) a contesting candidate 
for the general elcction to the Andhra Pradesh Legislativo 
Assembly held in March , 1972 from 175 -Alur (SC ) consti 
tuency , has failed to lodge an account of his election expen 
ses in the manner required by the Representation of the 
People Act , 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 


And whereas the said candidate , even after duo notices , mas 
not given any reason or explanation for the failure and the 
Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure ; 


अतः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 - 2 के अनुसरण 
में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्वारा उक्त श्री मो . उमर को 
संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान -सभा अथवा 
विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और शेने के लिए इस आदेश 
की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरीहन घोषित 
करता है । 

[ सं . प . पं वि . स ./ 131 / 71 (63) ] 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shii 
Narayanapuram Eranna to be disqualified for being chosen 
as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament 
or of the Legislative Assembly or Legisaltive Council of a 
State for a period of three years from the date of this order . 

INo. AP- LA /175 /72 (2 )] 


ORDER 


आदेश 


S . O . 1667. — Whercas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Md. Omar, 90 - B , Madan Mohan Barman Street, 
Calcutta - 7 (West Bengal) a contesting candidato for election 
to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from 131 - Jorasanko 
constituency, held in March 1971 has failed to lodged an 
account of his election expenses as required by the Repre 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made there . 
under ; 


का . आ . 1889.- यता, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया 
है कि मार्च, 1972 में हुए आन्ध्र प्रदेश विधान सभा के लिएनिर्वाचन 
के लिए 175- अलूर ( अजजा) निर्वाचन - क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीद 
पार श्री बारीकी पेडडा एरन्ना , चिन्ताक, न्सा पो ., अलूर तालक ( आन्ध 
प्रदेश), लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 सद्धीन बनाए गए 
नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित रीति से अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा 
दाखिल करने में असफल रहे है । 


And whereas , the said candidates even after the due 
notico has not given any reason or explanation for the failure 
and the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has 
no good reason or justification for the failure . 


__ Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the sald 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Md. Omar to be disqualified for being chosen as, and for 
being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for 
a period of three years from the date of this order. 


और यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने, उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 
पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण 
नहीं दिया है , और निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान हो गया 
है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या 
न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 


[ No WB- LA/ 131 / 71 ( 63 ) 1 


आदेश 


का . आ . 1868. – यस , निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया 
है कि मार्च, 1972 में Bए आन्ध्र प्रदेश विधान सभा के लिए निर्वाचन 
के लिए 175 - अलूर ( अज्जा ) निर्वाचन - क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले 
उम्मीदवार श्री नारायणपुरम ऐरन्ना, नारायणपुरम धानापुरम , पो . 
अलूर तालक ( आन्ध्र प्रदेश) , लोक प्रतिनिधतय अधिनियम , 1951 
तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित रीति से अपने 
निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं , 


अतः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10-क के अनुसरण में 
निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्द्वारा उक्त श्री बारीकी पहाड़ा एन्ना को 
संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान - सभा अथवा 
विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश 
की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निहित घोषित 
करता है । 

[ सं . आ . प्र. वि . स ./ 175/ 12 (1) ] 


ORDER 


और यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना विये जाने 
पर भी . अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण 
नहीं दिया है , और निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान हो गया 
है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या 
न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 


S . o . 1669. - Whereas the Election Commission is satis 
fied that Shri Bariki Pedda Eränna , Chintakunta Post , Alur 
Taluk (Andhra Pradesh ) , a contesting candidate for the 
general election to the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly 
held in March, 1972 from 175 - Alur ( SC ) constituency , has 
failed to lodge in account of his election expenses in the 
manner required by the Representation of the people Act, 
1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- -- - 


SEC . 3 (ii ) TIIE GAZLITE OI INDIA : JUNE J6, 1973 / JYAISIHA 20, 1895 

2143 
-- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - . . 

- - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - . - - - - - - -- - - - = : - - 
And whereas the said candidate , even after due notices , has वाले उम्मीदवार श्री श्रीपति नायक, ग्राम कसाडा, पो . आ . जामनकिरा , 
not given uny leason or explanation for tho failure and the 
Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 

जिला सम्बलपुर (उड़ीसा राज्य ) , लोक प्रतिनिधिस्व अधिनियम , 
reason or justification for such blue; 

1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने 
Now , therefore, in putlance of section 10A of the said निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे है । 
Act, the Election Commission heilby declucs tho Suid Sinn 
Bariki Pedda Eranna to be disquulilicd for being chosen as , 
and for being , a member of cither llouscol Pauliament or 

और यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने, उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टी 
for a period of thice years from the date of this order . 

करण नहीं दिया है , और, निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान 
[ No. AP. LA / 175 / 72 ( 1 ) ] 

हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण 
आपेश 

या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 


नई दिल्ली, 14 मई , 1973 
का . आ . 1670.-- यतः, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया 
है कि मार्च, 1972 में ए महाराष्ट्र विधान सभा के लिए 
निर्वाचन के लिए , 36-दादर निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले 
उम्मीदवार श्री गायकवाड निवरूति ईश्वरा , पुरानी क,म्भार चाल , 
कमरा नं . 23, फिदवाला रोड , बम्बई -13, लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधि 
नियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षिस 
अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल 


अतः अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 -क के अनुसरण 
में निर्वाचन आयोग एसद्वारा उक्त श्री श्रीपति नायक को 
संसद के किसी भी सवन के या किसी राज्य की विधान- सभा अथवा 
विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश 
की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निहित घोषित 
करता है । 

[ स . उड़ीसा-वि . स./118/ 71 (3) 1 


ORDER 
New Delhi, the 15th May , 1973 


__ और यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने, उस सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 
पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण जथमा स्पष्टी 
करण नहीं दिया है , और, निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान 
हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण 
या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है , 
____ अतः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10-क के अनुसरण में 
निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्द्वारा उक्त श्री गायकवाड निवसति ईश्वरा 
को संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा अथवा 
विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश 
की सारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरईत घोपित 
करता है । 

[ सं. महा.-वि . स ./ 36 / 72 ( 21) ] 


S . O . 1671. - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Sripati Naik, Village Kasada, P. O . Jamankira , 
District Sambalpur , Orissa State , a contesting candidate for 
clection to the Orissa Legislative Assembly from 118- kuchinda 
( ST ) constituency , held in March, 1971 has failed to lodge 
un account of his clcction expenses lis required by the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 , and the Rules made 
theroinder; 

And whereas the said candii late , cven after due notices , 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failuic and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act , the Election Commission hereby declares thợ said Shri 
Sripati Naik to be disqualifiod for being chosen as , and for 
being, a member of cither House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for 
a period of threc years from the date of this order. 

__ [ No. OR- LA /118 / 71(3 )] 


ORDER 


आदेश 


New Delhi , the 14th May, 1973 
$ . 0 . 1670 ,- Whereas the Election Commision is satisfied 
that Shri Gayakwad Nivruti Ishvara , Old Kumbhar Chawi, 
Room No. 23, Fitwala Road , Bombay- 13, a contesting can 
didate for the election held in March , 1972 , to the Maha 
rashtra Legislative Assembly from 36 - Dadar constituency, 
has failed to lodge an account of his elcction expenses , as 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951 , and 
the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas tho said candidate , cven after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure ; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of Section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Gayakwad Nivruti Ishvara to be disqualificd for being chosen 
as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament 
or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
State for a period of three years from the date of this order. 

[ No. MT-LA/ 36 / 72(21)] 


का . आ . 1672.- यता, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया 
है कि मार्च, 1971 में हुए उड़ीसा विधान सभा के लिए निर्वासन 
के लिए 118- कचिन्वा ( अ . ज . जा .) निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने 
वाले उम्मीदवार श्री कन्हाई सिंह , ग्राम पठभुन्डा, पो . मुन्धनपली , 
जिला सम्बलपर ( उड़ीसा राज्य ) , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 
1951 तथा सद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपक्षित अपने 
निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे है । 

और यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना विये जाने 
पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टी 
करण नहीं दिया है , और, निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान 
हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण 
या न्यायाचित्य नहीं है , 
___ अतः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 -क के अनुसरण 
में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्वारा उक्त श्री कन्हाई सिंह को 
संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान - सभा अथवा 
विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आवेश 
की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निहित घोषित 
करता है । 

[ सं . उड़ीसा-बि . स ./ 118/ 71 ( 2) 1 


आदेश 

नई दिल्ली, 15 मई , 1973 
का . आ . 1671. ज्यतः, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया 
है कि मार्च, 1971 में हुए उड़ीसा विधान सभा के लिए निर्वाचन 
के लिए 118- कचिन्दा ( अ . ज . जा .) निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने 
31 Gof I/ 73 - 3 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - - - 


- - 


- - - 


आवंश 


2144 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/ JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

[ PART II 
- - - - - - - 

- -- 

- - - 

- - -- 
ORDER 

आदेश 
S . 0 . 1672 . - Whereas the l lection Commission is satisfied 

का आ . 1674.--यतः, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया 
that Shri Kanhai Singh , Village Pathniunda, P , O . Mundhen 
pali, District Sambalpur , Olissa State , a contesting candidate है कि मार्च, 1972 में महाराष्ट्र विधान सभा के साधारण निर्वाचन 
for election to the Orissa Legislative Assembly from 118 

के लिए 167 -कालमनुरी निर्वाचन - क्षेत्र से चनाव लड़ने वाले 
Kuchinda ( ST ) constituency, held in March, 1971 has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by उम्मीदवार श्री खिलार पण्डित बद्री, स्थान व पो . आ. कालमनूरी, 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules 

जिला परभनी ( महाराष्ट्र ), लोक प्रतिनिधिस्व अधिनियम , 1951 
made thereunder ; 

तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों दगारा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन 
And wherças the said candidate , even after duc notices , 

ध्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं , 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
thc Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such fuiluie ; 

और यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने, उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 

पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण 
Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby doclares thc suid Shri नहीं दिया है , और , निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान 
Kanhai Singh to be disqualified for being chosch an , and for हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण 
being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a 

या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 
poriod of three years from the date of this order . 

[ No . OR- LA/ 118 / 71(2 )] 

अतः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 102 के अनुसरण 
में निर्वाचन आयोग एसद्वारा उक्त श्री खिलारे पण्डित पत्री को 
संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान -सभा अथवा 

विधान परिषद् के सदस्थ चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश 
का . आ . 1673. - यतः, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निहित घोषित 
है कि मार्च, 1971 में उड़ीसा विधान सभा के निर्वाचन के 
लिए 118 -कचिन्मा ( अजजा) निर्वाचन - क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले 

[ सं . महा.-वि . स ./ 167 /72 (22) ] 
उम्मीदवार श्री उज्जल नायक, गांव भालूबहल, पो , आ . ससान , 
जिला सम्बलपुर (उड़ीसा राज्य ) , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 

ORDER 
1951 तथा सद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपक्षित अपने 

S. O . 1674 . - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
निर्वाचन प्यों का कोई भी लेखा पाखिल करने में असफल रहे that Shri Khilare Pandit Badri, At and Post Kalamnuri, Dis 

trict Parbhani (Maharashtra), a contesting candidate for the 
general election held in March, 1972, to the Maharashtra 

Legislativo Assembly from 167 -Kalamnuri constituency , has 
____ और थतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as re 

quired by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the 
पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण 

Rules made thereunder ; 
नहीं दिया है , और निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान 

And whereas the suid candidate , even after duc notices, 
हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है , 

the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 

reason or justification for such failure ; 
___ अतः अब , उक्स अधिनियम की धारा 10-क के अनुसरण Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 104 of the said 

Act , the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
में निर्वाचन आयोग एतवध्वारा उक्त श्री उज्जल नायक को 

Khilare Pandit Badri to be disqualified for being chosen as , 
संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान - सभा अथवा and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or 

of the Legislative Assembly or 
विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश 

legislative Council of a 

State for a period of three years from the date of this 
की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निहित घोषित order. 
करता है । 

__ [ No. MT -LA / 167/ 72( 22)] 
[ सं . उड़ीसा -वि , स ./ 118/ 71 (1 ) ] 

आवेरा 

नई दिल्ली , 18 मई , 1973 
ORDER 
s . o . 1673. - Whercas the Election Commission is satisfied 

का . आ . 1675 . यतः, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया 
that Shri Ujal Naik , Village Bhalubahal, P . O . Sason , Dis है कि मार्च, 1972 में हुए मैसुर विधान सभा के लिए साधारण 
trict Sambalpur , Origan State , a contesting candidate for 
clection to the Orissa Legislative Assembly from 118 -Kuchinda 

निर्वाचन के लिए 75-चिकपद निर्वाचन - क्षेत्र में चनाव लड़ने वाले 
( ST ) constituency , held in March, 1971 has failed to lodge उम्मीदवार श्री पी . कृष्णामूर्थी, नम्बर 10, आंबंयाह लेन , अक्कीपट , 
an account of his election expenses as required by the 
Representation of the People Act , 1951 , and the Rules made 

बंगलोर-2, लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए 
thereunder; 

गए नियमों द्वारा अक्षिन अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का काई भी 
And whereas the said candidate, cven after due notices, 

लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं , 
has not given any rcason or explanation for the failure ani 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 

और, यतः, श्री पी . कृष्णामूर्ति को भेजी गई सूचनाएं अपरिदस्त 
Teason or justification for such failure ; 

वापस आ गई है क्योंकि अभ्यार्थी के रहने के स्थान का पता नहीं है 

और निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी रामाधान हो गया है कि उसके 
Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 

पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य 
Ujal Naik to be disqualified for being chosen as , and for 
being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 

नहीं है । 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for 
a period of three years from the date of this order . 

अत: अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10-क के अनुसरण में 
[ No. OR- LA / 118171 ( 1 ) ] निर्वाचन आयोग उक्त श्री कृष्णामूर्थी को संसद के किसी भी 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2145 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - 
सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा अथवा विधान परिषद् के And whereas the said candidate , even after due notices, 

has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की तारीख तीन वर्ष 

the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
की कालावधि के लिए निरीहत घोषित करता है । 

reason or justification for such failure ; 
[ सं . मैसर-वि . स ./ 75 / 72 ] Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 

Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the sald Shri 

Sachindra Nath Ray to be disqualificd for being chosen as , 
ORDER 

and for being , a member of cither House of Parliament or 

of the Legislative Assembly Or Legislative Council of a 
New Delhi, the 16th May , 1973 

Stato for a period of three years from the date of this 

order . 
S . 0 . 1675. -- Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 

[ No. WB- LA/ 83 / 71(64)] 
that Shri P . Krishna Murthy , No. 10 Obaiah Lane, Akki 
pet, Bangalore - 2 a contesting candidate for general election 
to the Mysore Legislative Assembly from 75 -Thickpet consti 

आवंश 
tuency held in March , 1972 , has failed to lodge in account 
of his election expenses at all as required by the Representa 
tion of the People Act, 1951 , and the Rules made there 

का . आ . 1677. - यतः, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो 
under ; 

गया है कि मार्च, 1971 में हुए पश्चिम बंगाल विधान सभा के 
And whereas the notices issued to Shri P . Kijshna Murthy 

लिए निर्वाचन के लिए 84 देगंगा निर्वाचन - क्षेत्र से सुनाव लड़ में 
have been received back undelivcicd as the wheicnbouts of याले उम्मीदवार श्री डी . पी . चौधरी, ग्राम गंगापुर, पो . आ . बुत्सा 
the candidate are not known and the Election Commission 
is satisfied that he has no good reason or justification for 

पुक,र, जिला 24 परगना (पश्चिम बंगाल ), लोक प्रतिनिधिस्त्र 
the failure; 

अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित 
Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the sald 

अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shii 
P . Krishna Murthy to be disqualified for being chosen is, 
und for being , a member of either House of Parliament or of 

और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 
the Legislative Assembly or Logislative Council of a State 
for a period of thiee years from the date of this ordei . पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा 

[ No. MY -LA / 75 / 72 ] स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है , और निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी 

समाधान हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई 
आदेश 

पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है , 
नई दिल्ली, 22 मई , 1973 

___ अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 - क के अनसरण में 

निर्वाचन आयोग एस्तद्वारा उक्त श्री डी . पी . चौधरी को संसद के 
का . आ . 1676. - यतः निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया 

किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान -सभा अथवा विधान 
है कि मार्च, 1971 में हर पश्चिम बंगाल विधान सभा के लिए 

परिषद के सदस्य घने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की 
निर्वाचन के लिए 83 राजारहट ( अजा ) निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से पनाम 

तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निहित घोषित करता 
लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री सस्थिन्त्रानाथ रे, पाम व पो . आ . मटिया 
गाचा, जिला 24 परगना ( पश्चिम बंगाल ), लोक प्रतिनिधिस्व 
अधिनियम , 1951 सथा तद्धीन मनाए गए नियमों द्वारा 

[ सं . प. बं. वि . स./ 84 / 71 ( 65 ) ] 
अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन प्यारों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में 

ORDER 
असफल रहे है 

S. O . 1677. - -- Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
और यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उस सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 

that Shri D . P. Choudhury , Village Gangapur , P. O . Dutta 
पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथया स्पष्टीकरण pukur, district 24-Parganas (West Bengal) a contesting can 

didate for election to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly 
करण नहीं दिया है , और, निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान 

from 84 - Deganga constituency, held in March , 1971 has 
हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण failed to lodge an account of his election exponses as re 

quired by the Representation of the People Act , 1951, and 
या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है , 

tho Rules made thereunder ; 
अतः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10- 2 के अनुसरण And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices , 

has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्वारा उक्त श्री सस्चिन्द्रानाथ रे को 

the Elcction Commission is further satisfled that ho has no good 
संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान - सभा अथवा reason or justification for such failure; 
विधान परिषद के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश Now, therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
की सारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निहित घोषित 

Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 

D . P . Choudhury to be disqualified for being chosen , as , 
करता है । 

and for being, a member of either Houso of Parliament or 

of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
[ सं . प . बं. वि . स ./ 83 / 71 ( 84) ] State for a period of three years from the date of this 

order . 


[ No . WB- LA / 84 / 71 ( 65) 


ORDER 
New Delhi, the 22nul May , 1973 


$ . 0 . 1676 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisficu 
that Shri Sachindra Nath Ray, Villavc and P .O . Matiagacha , 
District 24- Parganas , ( West Bengal ) a contesting Candidate 
lor election to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from 
83-Rajarhut ( SC ) constituency , held in March 1971 has filed 
lo lodge an account of his clection expenses as required by 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951 , and the Rules 
made thereunder; 


आदेश 
का . आ . 1678.- यतः निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो 
गया है कि मार्न, 1971 में हार उड़ीमा विधान सभा के लिए निर्वा 
तन के लिए 127 चम्प, आ ( अजजा ) निर्वाचन क्षेष रो बनाव लड़ने 
वाले उम्मीदवार श्री प्राणबंध दयुरी, ग्राम व पो . आ . कालिका 
प्रसाद, जिला कि ओंझार , उड़ीसा, लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 


- - - 


- 


2146 THE GAZFTTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

PART 11 — 
-- ----- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - --- - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - - -- 
1951 सथा सधीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपक्षित अपने निर्वा तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निहित घोषित करता 
चन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं । 


[ सं . उड़ीसा-वि . स ./ 123 / 71 ] 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 23rd May , 1973 


___ और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उस सम्यक सुचला दिये जाने 
पर भी , अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल नहीं किया है , 

और , निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान हो गया है कि उसके 
पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायाचित्य 
नहीं है , 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10-क के अनुसरण में 
निर्वाचन आयोग एसइद्धारा उक्त श्री प्राणबंध , देयरी को संसद के 
किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा अथवा विधान 
परिषद् के सदस्य चने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश को 
तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालार्वाध के लिए निहित घोषित करता 


S . 0 , 1679. - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Emile Kujur, at Nayapara . P . O . Sambalpur, Dis 
trict Sambalpur, Orissa Stato , a contcating candidate for 
clection to the Orissil Legislative Assembly from 123- Rajgari 
gpur ( ST ) constituency , held in March, 1971 has failed to lodge 
an account of his election expenses within the time and in 
the manner as required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 , and the Rules made thercunder %; 


[ सं , उड़ीसा वि . स ./ 127 / 71 ] 


And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure ; 


ORDER 


S . O . 1678 . - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Pranabandhu Deury , Village and P. O . Kalika 
prasad , District Keonjhar , Orissa State , a contesting candidate 
for election to the Orissa Legislative Assembly from 127 
Champua (ST) Constituency , held in March , 1971 has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by 
the Representation of the Pcople Act , 1951 , and the Rules 
mado thereunder ; 


Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Emile Kujur to be disqualified for being chosen as , and for 
being, a member of either Holisc of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for 
a period of three years from the date of this order . 


[ No . OR- LA/ 123 / 71 ] 


आदेश 


And whereas the said candidate , even after duc notices , 
has not given any reason of explanation for the failuro and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure ; 


नई दिल्ली , 24 मई , 1973 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of Section 10A of the said 
Act , the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Pranabandhu Deury to be disqualified for being chosen as, 
and for being, & member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
State for a period of three years from the date of this 
order . 

[ No . OR-LA/ 127/ 71 ] 


आदेश 


नई दिल्ली, 23 मई, 1973 


का . आ . 1680. -- यतः, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो 
गया है कि मार्च, 1972 में हुए पश्चिम बंगाल विधान सभा के 
लिए निर्वाचन के लिए 37 गजाल ( अजजा ) निर्वाचन- क्षेत्र से धुनान 
लड़नं वाले उम्मीद यार श्री साम, दड , ग्राम सिमलधाप , पो . आ . 
बलियानवाबगंज , जिला मालदा, पश्चिम बंगाल , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व 
अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियों द्वारा 
अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा पाखिल करने में 
असफल रहे है । 
___ और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उस सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 
पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा 
स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है , और निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी 
समाधान हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई 
पर्याप्स कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 

अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 -क के अनुसरण में 
निर्वाचन आयोग एसद्वारा उक्त श्री साम् टूड, को संसद के. 
किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान - सभा अथवा विधान 
परिषद् के सदस्य चने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की 
तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरीहत घोषित करती 


का . आ . 1879. - यत : निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो 
गया है कि मार्च, 1971 में हुए उड़ीसा विधान सभा के लिए 
निर्वाचन के लिए 123 राजगंगपुर ( अजजा) निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से 
चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्गीदवार श्री इमिले कजर, निवासी नयापाड़ा , 
पो . आ . सम्बलपर , जिता उड़ीसा , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व 
अधिनियम , 1951 तथा सद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित 
समय के अन्दर तथा रीति से अपने निर्वाचन प्यर का लेखा 
खिल करने में असफल रहे हैं ; 


[ सं , प . बं . वि . स ./ 37/ 72 ( 66 ) ] 


और, रातः, उक्स उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दियं जानं 
पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा 
स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है , और निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी 
समाधान हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई 
पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायांनित्य नहीं है ; 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 24th May, 1973 


अत्तः, अब , उक्स अधिनियम की धारा 10-2 के अनसरण में 
निर्वाचन आयोग पतनधारा उपरा श्री इमिले कजर को संसद के 
किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान -सभा अथला विधान 
परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की 


S . O . 1680 . - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Samu Tudu, Village Simuldlhap, P . O . Balianawab 
gang. district Malda , West Bengal a contesting candidate for 
election to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from 37 
Gajol (ST) constituency, held in March , 1972 has failed to 
lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder ; 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2147 
- - - - - - 

- - - - - 
And whereas the said candidate , even after due notices , It is alleged that he had paid largo sums of money to the 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and influential persons in the constituency as also donation to in 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good stitutions to purchaşo support in his favour, As an instance it 
reason or justification for such failure ; 

has been cited that respondent s younger brother at repondent s 

instance and consent had met the Principal of Quer Singh 
Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 107 of the said college , Darbhangat on the 11th of January , 1972 and had 
Act, thç Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri solicited his ( Principal s ) support and influence to elicit the 
Samu Tudu to be disqualified for being chosen as , and 

voles and services of his students in respondent s favour and 
for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of as a consideration thereof the Principal was handed over a 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State 

chequc of Rs. 25,000 issued on behalf of M / S . J . K . Syil 
for a period of three years from the date of this order . 

thetics of Kanpur on their account in Hindustan Commercial 

Bank ; the Principal infornica the President of the college 
[No. WB -LA / 37 / 72(66 )] governing body about his receipt of this cheque issued to 

him for electoral support to the respondent. " The President, 
New Delhi, the 1st June, 1973 

however , cxpluined to the Principal the legal implication that 
its acceptance involved upon which the latter returned it to 

respondent s brother with a letter of regret. The respondent 
S . 0 . 1681 .- In pursuance of Section 106 of the Repre along with his workers and supporters have also been alleged 
sentation of the People Act , 1951, the Election Commission to have captured a number of polling booths and get cast 
hereby publishes the Order dated the 26th March , 1973 of a large number of bogus votes therein after driving away 
the High Court of Judicature ot Patna in Election Petition the genuing voters who had assembled there to exercisc 
No. 1 of 1972 . 

their franchise . His further allegation is that because of 

respondent s ofhcial influential a Union Minister i large 
(Here Print the order attached ) 

number of Government officials not only connived at those 
illegal votings but had actually canvassed and worked for 

hlin during the election , 
ELECTION PETITION NO. 1 OF 1972 


Petitioner. 


Respondent. 


Hukumdco Narayan Yadav 

Versus 
Sri Lalit Narain Mishra 
New Delhi, the 26th March . 1973. 

ORDER 


C . P . SINHA , J . - Shri Lalit Narain Mishra who it the sole 
respondent in this case has filed this petition dated the 22nd 
December , 1972 praying for dismissal of this election petition 
under section 86 and 87 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the Act ) before its hear 
ing on merits inter alia , on tho main grounds that it has 
not been presented within the prescribed period of limita 
tion and that it is not a proper petition because at the tino 
it was filed it did not have with it the mandatory affidavit ; 
in the prescribed Form 25 . It is to be noted that the res 
pondent is still to file his written statement in the case . His 
roquest, however is that before he files his written statement 
this preliminary objection challenging thc maintainability uf 
the election petition may be disposed of whereafter if neces 
sary hc will file his written statement to meet the allegations 
of the petitioner as made against him in the election petition . 


5 . This election petition was presented in my chamber on 
the 20th of March , 1972 at 05 minutes past 4 P . M . At tho 
time of that presentation, it however Jacked the necessary 
stamp report to which it was subjected later. In his report, 
dated the 22nd March , 1972 , Court s Stamp Reporter point 
ed out that the period of limitation in this casc had expired 
on the 18th March , 1972 . Thereafter , on the 2nd April, 
1972, the petitioner filed a suppleinentary affidavit (sworn on 
the 31 March , 1972 ) sctting out the circumstances in which 
he had filed the election petition on the 20th of March , 1972 
and not the 18th March . At the time the election petition 
was filed it was also not accompanied by an uffidavit in tho 
prescribed Forin 25 us required by the proviso to section 
83 ( 1 ) of the Acl rcad with rule 94A of the Counduct of 
Elections Rules , 1961 notwithstanding there being specific 
allegation of corrupt practices on it. This wanting affidavit 
was however supplied by the petitioner on the 3rd April , 
1972 . Even then the second copy of this aflidavit was found 
wanting in the necessary attestation which the petitioner 
subsequently rectifled . In due course , this election petition 
was posted in the list for an ission on the 10th April, 
1972 . Since it had been presented on the 20th March , 1972 
limitation having expired on the 18th March , I admitted it 
subject to limitation , if any. Thereafter notices of the elec 
tion petition were issued to the respondent. They could 
not, however, be served on him for quite some time, the 
circumstances of which are not necessary to be recounted 
here . Eventually substituted service , at the request of the 
pctitioner, was resorted to . That service was accepted in 
Court s order dated the 8th December , 1972 when a counsel 
for the respondent appeared and filed his power . He was 
then given a copy of tho election petition 26 available in 
office on his request. On that day ( 8 -12 - 1972 ) respondent 
was ullowed two weeks time to file his written statement, 
if any. In the mçanwhile i.e., on the 22nd December , 1972, 
the respondent filed the instant objection pctition in which , 
as already noted , his prayer is to dismiss the clection petition 
under section 86 and 87 of the Act before being heard on 
merits . 


2 . The petitioner has put in his rejoinder, dated the 8th 
January , 1973 , resisting the summary cisminşal of the election 
petition as prayed by the respondent. To this rejoinder, the 
respondent has filed a reply dated the 29th Januury, 1973 . 


3 . This election petition has been filed for a declaration 
that the election of the respondent to the Parliament ( Lok 
Sabha ) from the Darbhanga Parliamenary Constituency is 
illegal and void . This election took place on the 30th of 
January , 1972 and the votes were counted on the 1st of 
February , 1972 . On the 2nd February , 1972 , the respondent 
was declared elected having secured majority of valid votes. 
It is not disputed that the respondent had defeated his nearest 
rival Shri Ram Sevak Yaday by a margin of 91,078 votcy . 
In this election the respopdent was a candidate of the Indian 
National Congress whereas he ( Shri Ram Sevak Yadav ) was 
set up by the Socialist Party , The petitioner has filed this 
clection petition as an elector of this Parljanicntary consti 
tuency and has averred that he was a member of the dis 
solved Bihar State Assembly and has again been re - elected 
to the Statc Assembly in the last General Election ( It is not 
disputed that he has won this election as a cindidate of (lic 
Socialist party ) . Shri Ram Sevak Yadav is said to be at 
leader of All India repute of the Socialist party and is also 
stated to have been clected thrice to the Lok Sabha inc 
once to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly . 


6 . Mr. C . K . Daphtary representing the respondent has 
pressed for dismissal of the election petition under section 
86 of the Act mainly because ii has not been presented within 
the prescribed period of 45 days from the result of the elec 
tion and that in the eye of law it cannot be treated as a 
complete and proper petition because at the time it was filed 
it was not accompanied with the requisite affidavit in Forin 
25 which it was mandatory for him to annex under thọ pro 
Visions of section 83 ( 1 ) read with fulc 94A . 


7. Mr. P . K . Chatterjce appearing for the petitioner has, 
however , urged , l espondent s objection petition so filed must 
be thrown out as non -maintainable at this state because 
the High Court has already admitted the clcction 
petition ; even if the alfidavit in Form 25 was not 
there at the time this clection petition was filed it was 
not fatal to its maintainability and for that omission it 
cannot be dismissed in liminc under section 86 and must 
now be tricd on merits ; since the Judges were not sitting in 


4 . The case in the election pctition is that the responde:lt 
had won this election by resorting to corrupt practices, lak 
ing advantage of his influential position as a Minister in 
the Ministry of Foreign Trade of the Union Government. 


2148 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

[PART II 
- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---- - -- - -- -- - - - - 

S - S . - - 
court on the 18th March , 1972 as it was a Saturday, the attached to it the respondent on appearance could not bc 
election petition could not presented on that day and also cstopped from raising this preliminary point and seek its 
on thc next duy (Sunday) and it was accordingly filed the summary dismissal on this score . If the election petition 
following day , i.c ., the 20th March , 1972 (Monday ) on which is to be held as time barred then where is a petition before 
the Judges sat in Court . 

the Court to be tried on merit. 


8 . On the position of facts and law as they are , I am 
unable to accede to the contention of the election petitioner 
that the present objection as raised by the respondent 
challenging the maintianability of the election petition on 
the ground of limitation does not deserve to be entertained 
and must be dismissed summarily without yoing into its 
terit. As I have already shown , this election petition was 
presented in my chambers on 20 - 3 - 1972 at 4 .05 P . M . without 
any stamp report which it was necessary for the petitioner 
to obtain before filing it ( election petition ) under rule 6 of 
the Rules for the disposal of Election Petitions, 1967, as 
framed by this Court ( hereafter referred to as Court 
Election Rules ). Subscquently on 22 - 3 - 1972 when this 
election petition was presented to the Court s stamp Reporter 
for necessary report " he reported that the limitation about 
it had expired on 18 -3 - 1972 . Thereafter , the petitioner filed 
a supplementary affidavit on 3 - 4 - 1972 in which he tried to 
cxplain how he had not been able to present this petition 
on 18 - 3 - 1972 and had done that on 20 - 3 - 1972 . Since , 
however , the points urged by the petitioner in this supple 
mentary affidavit to make his election petition within time 
could not be accepted or rejected at once and its (election 
petition ) formul admission could not be indefinitely postponed 
because other ancilliary steps regarding sending notices of 
the election petition etc . to the other side had to be taken 
it was posted , in tho list on 10 - 4 - 1972 for orders regarding 
admission and after having heard learned petitioner s counsel 
in the matter the following order was recorded : 
" Heard . The Election Petition is admitted subject to 

limitation , if any . 
Issue notice to the respondent fixing 27 - 6 -72 for 

appearance and for filing written statement. if 
uny . . . . . 


11 . The contention of Mr. Chatterjee that in view of the 
deletion of the old sections 88 to 92 of the Act the intention 
of the Legislature was evident that the election petition , 
unless it has been summarily dismissed before admission , 
must be heard and decided on merit no inatter whethor it 
was burred or not is not fully comprchended . As is known , 
after the amendment of the Act in 1966 the forum for the 
flling and trial of an election petition is now the High Court 
which was previously thc clection Commission and the 
Election Tribunal. As the old provisions in the Act existed , 
the Election Commission , under section 85 , was to dismiss 
un election petition for its non - compliance with the provisions 
of soction 81 ( parties to an election petition ) of section 83 
( contents of an election petition ) or Section 117 (security 
deposit while filing an clection petition ). Under sçction 86 
the Election Commission was to appoint an Election Tribunal 
for the trial of the election petition wbich it (Election Con 
mission ) did not dismiss under section 85 , Section 87 
enjoined election petitions relating to samo election to bo 
referred to the name Tribunal. Section 88 required the 
Election Commission to fix the place where an election 
petition was to be tricd . Section 89 authorised an Election 
Tribunal to call for the attendance of the Attorney General 
or the Advocate General in any election case as it considered 
necessary . Section 90 prescribed the procedure before tho 
Election Tribunal for the trial of an election case, and under 
its sub - section ( 4 ) the Tribunal was given the power to dis 
miss an election petition which did not comply with the pro 
visions of section 81, 83 or 117 notwithstanding its 
non -dismissal by the Election Commission under section 8 ) . 
Section 91 laid down the procedure now the party was to 
appear in the election case before the Tribunal, and under 
section 92 the Tribunal was vested with the powers of a Civil 
Court in regard to matters specified therein . In the Repre 
sentation of the People (Second Amendment) Act, 1956 
(Act 27 of 1956 ) these sections 85 , 86 89 and 90 underwont 
substantial amendments. After that amendment the Election 
Commission under section 85 could dismiss an election peri 
tion for non -compliance with the provisions of section 81, 
82 or 117 (S . 83 was taken out from the purview of S . 8 .3). 
Section 86 provided how District Judges ctc , were to be 
appointed as Tribunals in prior consultation with the High 
Courts. Section 89 clothed the Election Commission with 
power to withdraw an election case from one Tribun . I and 
transfer it to another, Section 90 cnjoined upon the Tribunal 
to dismiss an election petition which did not comply with 
the provisions of section 81, 82 or 117 even if it had not 
been dismissed by the Election Commission under section 
85 , and a candidate not joined as a party to the election peti 
tion wag mado entitled to be joined as a party on his applica 
tion to tho Tribunal within the prescribed period . It also 
required an election petition to be heard as expeditiously as 
possible as to concludo the hearing within six months as far as 
possible , Sections 91 and 92 remained as they were . Conse 
quent upon the amendments in 1966 by which the filing as, 
also the trial of an election petition has been shifted to the 
High Court , as per the Representation of the People 
(Amendment) Act, 1966 (Act 47 of 1966 ), the old sections 
86 to 92 were deleted , as they had become redundant, and in 
their placo two new sections 86 and 87 were inserted pro 
viding for the filing of an election petition in the High 
Court and the procedure to be followed in its trial. 


It will thus bc evident from this order that the admission 
of the election petition was qualified in that it was subject to 
limitation , if any. In that view of this matter, it is, perhaps , 
not quite correct on the part of the petitioner to canvass 
that that admission must be regarded as unreserved and free 
from cvery string so that the Court cannot now look back 
On the objection of the other side to decide whether it 
deserves to be dismissed in limine under Section 86 of the 
Act being hit by limitation . 


9 . Uoder rule 9 of thc Court Election Rules , an election 
petition is required , after its presentation and registration , 
to be placed before the Judge concerned for such orders as 
may be required to be passed under section 86 of the Act, 
and if the petition is not dismissed under this section then 
summons should issuic to the respondent to appear before 
the Court and file his written statement, etc. This rule , as 
it stands, must be deemed to postulate cases oť unqualificd 
admission requiring their hearing on merits . But, as already 
shown , the admission of the instant election petition was 
provisional subject to thc consideration whether it was 
barred by limitation or not, which point was obviously 
Involved on its face because of its presentation on 20 - 3 - 1972 
instead of 18 - 3 - 1972 which was the last day of limitation , 
The respondent has lost no time to challenge its muintain 
ability on the ground of limitation . His appearance in the 
case was effected on 8 - 12 -1972 when his counsel filed power 
on his behalf and he was allowed two weeks time to file 
his written statement. Before the expiry of that period hc 
(respondent) however filed his present objection on 
22- 12 - 1972 requesting for the dismissal of the election 
petition under Section 86 , inter alia , on the ground that it 
had been presented to Court beyond limitation which clearly 
nicunt non - coinpliance with the provision of Section 81. 


12 . I have traced above the changes that the provisions of 
old sections 86 to 92 have undergone from time to time, 
Looking at them as a whole, it is somewhat Jillicult to 
appreciate the logic of the petitioner s argument that in 
view of the deletion of old sections 88 to 92 it is manifest 
that this Court is now powerless to dismiss the election 
retition even though barred by liinitation mercly because it 
had not done so at an earlier stage . When he concedes such 
a power was possessed by the Election Tribunal under old 
section 90 ( 4 ) then can it be argued that it does not exist 
for the High Court, which has since replaced thut Tribunal, 
in the absence of anything to the contrily in the statute . 
In fact , such an authority now clely Vesty in the ligh 
Court under section 86 which enjoins upon it to dismiss in 
clection petition which doey not comply with the provisions 
of section 81, 82 or 117 . Section 81 takes provision for 
the calling in question of an election by means of an clection 


10 . There can be no denying the fact that the point of 
limitation is a very vital question and goes to the very root 
of the clcction petition . As such , if the clcction petition is 
found to be baised by time, in the eye of law there is no 
election petition before the Court which It may be called 
upon to hear and try on mcrit . Becausc of this position , 
the matter can be stretched to the length of holding that 
even if its admission on 10 - 4 - 1972 was without any condition 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Act. 


Sec . 3111 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2149 
= = - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - 

-- = - -= - - - -- - - - 
petition presented within the prescribed period section 8 ! security money was taken laid down that if a preliininary 
names the person or persons who are necessary paties to cbjcction is raised to an clection petition that the provision 
in election pctition ; scction 117 refers to the secuity deposit . contained in section 117 of the Representation of the People 

Act as lo deposit of security had not been duly complied 
13 . According to the respondent , as has been clearly laid 

with and the election petition is, therefore , liable to be dis 
down in section 81, un eloction cannot be challenged except 

missed linder section 90 ( 3 ) of the Act, such objection must 
by means of an election petition filed by the appropriate 

be heard and decided before the petition is tried on merits . 
person within the prescribed period which is 45 days from 
the date of the clcction result, and if he is able to show 

15 . In view of the above discussions , I do not think , 
that there was no such petition presented to the High Court there can be any leagal hurdle to entertain this objection of 
within that period which is unextendable , then there can be the respondent in which he has objected to the maintainabi 
no question of that petition being proceeded with for trial 

lity of the election pctition being hit by limitation etc . and 
on merit because that was not an election petition within its conscquential dismissal as enjoined by scction 86 of the 
the framework of law on this point and he would be well 
within his right to request the Court to throw out in limine 
such a petition under the provision of section 86 without 
calling upon the parties to its trial because that will involve 

16 . Before I proceed to examine the merit of the respon 
them in unnecessary expenses and botherations of litigation 

dent s contention regarding the clcction petition being hit 
besides loss of Court s time. In his submission the factum 

by limitation I would like to dispose of his other point 
of admission of this clection petition is of no material conse 

which has also been urged as a ground for its dismissal 
quences to tho other sido to resist respondent s objection 

at this stage . It is said , since the election petition at tho 
against its maintainability on this score because that order 

time it was presented did not accompany with it the rc 
of admission which was just conditional subject to limita quired affidavit in Form 25 the election petition had to be 
tion , was made when he was not there and as soon as he 

treated as not a complete and proper petition within the 
has appeared on the scene he has raised this issue at the 

meaning of section 81 of the Act and must, therefore , be 
earliest opportunity because such a defect, if any, is vital 

dismissed for that major defect. He has urged that since 
and goes to the very root of the petition and once it has 

in the election petition the petitioner had made specific 
been brought to the notice of the Court it must be heard and 

allegation of corript practices against the respondent it was 
decided without waiting for its decision along with the 

inandatory upon hini to nnncx with the clection retition 
decision on merits of the other issues involved in the case . 

itself when it was presented such an affidavit and if he 
To support this view reliance has been made on respondent s 

did not do so that is obviously fatal and needs its alimmary 
hehalt on the Supreme Court authority in K . Kamaraja 

dismissal under section 86 of the Act, I am , however, un 
Nadar v . Kunju Thevar ( A . I. R . 1958 S . C . 687 ) and the 

able to accept this contention for the following reason. 
Bench decision of this Court in Mohan Singh Oberoi v . 
Shah Md. Umair ( A . I.R . 1964 Patna 268 ) following that 

17 . The above affidavit is required to accompany an elec 
Supreme Court caso , 

tion petition on the provision of the proviso to section 83 

of the Act read with rule 941 of the Conduct of Elections 
14 . The above Patna case related to the election petition 

Rules, 1961. Regarding being had to the allegations of 
in which the election petitioner Shah Md. Umair had 

corrupt practices as made in the election petition , the peti 
challenged the validity of the election to the Parliament of 

lioner was required to swear such an affidavit and annex it 
Mohan Singh Oberoi, in due course , the respondent therein 

to the election petition at the time it was filed . This was 
filed his written statement. Before the issues in the case 

obviously not done and he supplied this affidavit on 3 - 4 - 1972 
were settled thc respondent filled an Application to the 

(Election petition was filed on 20 - 3 - 1972 ). The dismissal of 
Election Tribunal under section 90 ( 3 ) of the Act praying for 

the election petition under section 86 is contemplated for 
summary dismissal of the election petition for the rcason 

its non -compliance with the provisions of only section 81, 
that it suffered from the non -compliance of tho mandatory 

82 or 117 . There is nothing in section 86 to read that 
provisions of section 81 of the Act because the copy of the 

non -compliance of an clection petition with any of the 
election petition as served upon him did not contain the 

provisions of scction 83 will also cntail its such dismissal, 
annexures attached to the main petition though they formed 

As it appears from the election petition , at the time of its 
part of the petition and repeated reference had been made 

filiog, it had on it besides the usual verification two affi 
of them in the body of that petition . The Election Tribunal 

davits. In the first aidavit he testiſied to the correctness 
rejected that prayer of the respondent for disposing of that 

of his averments in the Hilferent paragraphs in the election 
preliminary objection before settling the issues in the case , 

petition as they were based on his own knowledge also in 
saying that the proper course appeared to be to postponc the 

formation received from his workers and supporters . In 
hearing of that preliminary point at that stage and proceed 

the second the petitioner swore the correctness of Annexure 
with the settlement of issues and in the issues so settled to 

T in which he has alleged specific act of corrupt practice 
have a specific issue or issues if necessary on that point and 

against the respondent as he had learnt from the College 
then if the parties so desired they could address the Tribunal 

Principal concerned . 
to hear that preliminary issue first and dispose it before 
hearing the case on the other issues and if and when such 

18 . In the case of Mahesh Prasad Sinha v, Manjay Lal 
piayer was made that would be considered on merit and and others ( A .LR . 1964 Patna 33 ) their Lordships while 
according to law . Againąt that order of the Tribunal tho considering a similar question had held : 
respondent moved the High Court by means of a writ peti 
tion which was allowed and the Tribunal s order was set 

" The substance and the matter of the essence embodied 
aside with the direction that it should proceed to bear and 

in the proviso is that when allegations of corrupt 
decide the preliminary objection so raised with regard to 

practices are made in the election petition , it must 
non -compliance of section 81 of tho Act, and thereafter , 

be accompanied by an aſlidavit, but the requirement 
proceed in accordance with law . It may be noted that the 

of its being in the prescribed form is not of the 
riovision of this section 81 is it stood at the time of High 

cssence and is directory . Beforc the amending Act 
Court s order in that case in 1964 was substantially the same 

27 of 1956 , for non - compliance with the provisions 
in respect of annexures to the clection petition etc . us they 

of S . 83, the penalty provided in the Act was dis 
cxist at present in section 81. In muking this order their 

missal of the application by the Eloction Commis 
Lordships, V . Ramaswami C . J. and N . 1 . Uniwalia , J (HS 

sion uncler S . 85 or by the Election Tribunal under 
they were then ) relicd upon the aforesaid Supreme Court 

S . 90 (3 ) of the Act . But no such consequence 19 
authority in A . I.R . 1958 S . C . 687 which had carlier heen 

provided in the Act as it stands now after the 
followed hy thc Patna High Court in Dhananjoy Mahto v . 

Amendment of 1956 . It is , thereforc, clear that 
R . K . Singh and others ( 16 E . L . R . 99). In the Supreme 

even for the non - filing of the affidavit along with 
Court case it was held that a preliminary objection with 

the election petition is required by the proviso 
regard to non - compliance of the provisions of section 117 

in question . the whole of the petition cannot be 
(rclating to security deposit with the clection petition ) should 

dismissed in limine . It may well be that in that 
he entertained and decided at the initial stage and should 

even the allegations of corrupt practices in the 
not be relegated to the stage of hearing of be petition . 

pelition have got to be stryck out as being un 
Following this decision of the Supreme Court, their Lord 

necessary inter O 6 . R . 16 of the Cole of Civil 
ships of this Court in the above Dhananjoy Mahto s case 

Procedure or some other consequences may follow 
where the preliminary objection regarding non - compliance 

even though not specifically provided for in the Act. 
of the provisions of section 117 regarding noul - deposit of the 

But if the clection petition is accompanied by an 


2150 


THE ( AZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[PART 11 


aflılavii, the allcgations of corrupt practices 11 . knik 
in the clection pctition cannot be stilch out merely 
because the affidavit is not in the prescribed form 
or is a defective onc, That being so , the intention 
is cruied out and the object is slibstantially achieved 
if any affidavit is filed in support of the allegations 
of the commission of Corrupt practices and the 
particulars thereof." 


the building and it may not be possiblo for him to present 
the petition to that Judge in time then he was asked to 
file it in his chambers if by that time that Court had 
risen ; on this the counsel rushed to the Sessions Court in 
which C . P . Sinha, J ., was sitting , but by the time he 
Teachel there the Couit had risen and then the counsel 
went to his chambers and prescnted the petition there at 
4 .05 P . M . 


19 . Following this decision of our Court, I am unable 
to subscibe to the vicw canvassed by the respondent that 
since the election petition at the time of its filing was not 
accompanied with such an aſlidavit it must be treated to be 
not a proper petition as to entail its dismissal under section 
86 for this defect. As already pointed out , the petitioner 
did subscquently covei lip this lacuna on 3 - 4 - 1972 by filing 
this affidavit , Moreover , the petition at tho time it was 
presented had with its the aforeszich two affidavits relating 
to allegations of corrupt practices In thesc circumstances, 
the respondent s request for summary dismissal of the olec 
tion petition for this reason appears to be without substance 
and must be over ruled . 


23 . It is clear from the body of the election petition that 
everything regarding it was done on 20 - 3 - 1972 . It was pre 
sented and affidavited before the Oath Commissioner on that 
day and the necessary security deposit regarding this petl. 
tion was also made on that day (20 - 3 - 1972 ). On these facts, 
it has been urged for the respondent , there could be no 
question on petitioner s part even to attempt 
presentation of this petition to this Court at any time prior 
to 20 - 3 - 1972 . 


20. It has not to be considered whether the clection petition , 
as prcscnted to the Court , is barred by limitation . Admittedly 
the result of this election was declared on 2 - 2 - 1972 in 
which the respondent was declared elected having secuied 
majority of valid votes . The period picscribed for presenta 
tion of an election petition calling in question the clcction 
of the returned candidate under soction 81 of the Act by a 
candidate or an clcctor, as the case may be , is 45 days 
from , but not earlier then , the date of the election of the 
returned candidate . Computing on this basis the last date 
on which this election petition , which the petitioner has 
ſiled as an elector of the constituency , should have been 
presented latest by 18 - 3 - 1972 . As against it , it was filed 
on 20 - 3 - 1972 ( at 4 .05 p . m , in my chambers ). So , on the 
face of it , it has to be treated us having been presented 
beyond the presciibcd period . 


21. Under the Court Election Rules " the Judge has been 
defineci to mean the Judge or Judges of the Court (High 
Court of Judicature ni Patna ) who , from time to time, have 
been assigned by the Chief Justicc under yub - section ( 2 ) of 
section 80 A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 
for exercising the juriscliction of the High Court under sub 
section ( 1) of section 80 A . As rule 6 of these Rules is 
worded , though not expressly but impliedly it requires the 
election pctition to be made to the Judge in open Court . 


24 . As already observed , such an election petition must 
he filed within 45 days from the date of the election result, 
and there is nothing in the Act wbich is self contained 
linder which this Court can be said to possess power to 
extend this period . In the case of an election appeal filed 
under section 116 A of the Act, the Supreme Court is em 
powered to entertain it even after the expiry of the pres 
cribed period of 30 days if it is satisfied that the appellant 
has sufficient cause for not prefering the appeal within that 
period . There is, however , no such enabling provision in 
the case of an election petition to be filed before 
the High Court under section 81 of the Act. There 
is no dispute that the Indian Limitation Act has NO 
application to an election petition and the limitation 
about it is as prescribed in tho Act itself. In the case 
of K . Venkateswara Rao another V . Bękkam Narasimba 
Reddi and and others ( A . J. R . 1969 S . C . 872 ) it has been 
held that the Limitation Act cannot apply to proceedings 
like an election petition inasmuch as the Representation of 
the People Act is a complete and self- contained Code; it does 
nor admit of the introductions of the provisions of law con 
tained in the Indian Limitation Act . While holding 80 , 
their Lordships have, however , observed that even though 
the Indian Limitation Act, 1963 docs not apply to an clec 
tion petition provisions like sections 9 and 10 of the General 
Clauses Act, 1897 providing for computation of time which 
are in pari materia with sections 12 ( 1) and 4 of the Limita 
tion Act would apply to such ft case . While examining the 
applicability of section 10 of the General Clauses Act their 
Lordships of the Supreme Court in H . H , Raja (Harinder 
Singh v. S . Karnail Singh and others ( A . I.R . 1957 S . C . 271 ) 
have observed that broadly stated , the object of section 10 
is to enable a person to do what he could have done on a 
holiday , on the next working day; where, therefore , a period 
is prescribed for the purpose of an act in a court or 
office , and that period expires on holiday, then according to 
this section , the act should be considered to have been done 
within that period if it is done on the next day when the 
court or office is open . For that section to apply , therefore, 
all that is requisite is that thero should be a period pres 
cribed and that period should expire on a holiday . 


22 . As I have aliendy shown, the clection petition of this 
case was presented in my chainbers on 20 - 3 - 1972 , though 
in marmal course its Aling was necessary at the latest by 
18 - 3 - 1972 The petitioner in his supplementary affidavit 
( filcd on 3 - 4 - 1972 ) has tried to explain this omission on 
his part by asserting: when he contracted his counsel Mr, 
G . P . Roy on 18 - 3 -1972 ( Saturday) to file an election 
petition the latter asked him to come again on 20 - 3 - 1972 
(Monday) at 10 . 30 AM , when he would present the election 
petition in open Court because he could not do 80 on 
Saturday and Sunday when the Court was not open . Ac 
cordingly , he reached the High Court on 20 - 3 - 1972 at 
10. 30 AM , when the election petition was presented for 
afficavit which was done al 2 P . M . and he also deposited 
the necessary security of Rs. 2000 / - on that day ; thc counsel 
(Mr. G . P . Roy ) had also learnt on enquiry from the 
Court s Flection Office that no Judge of the Court was 
specifically assigned by the Chief Justice to dispose of the 
election petitions of 1972 and that the Chief Justice had 
not come to Court on that day (20 - 3 - 1972 ); as on that 
day two Judges ( C . P . Sinha and L. Narain , JJ.) who had 
been assigned by the Chief Justice to try election petitions 
of 1971 were on that day sitting in two different court- rooms 
and Mr. G . P . Roy was conducting Election Petition No. 7 
of 1971 in the court of J . Narain , J ., at 3 P . M . ho asked 
the petitioner in that court- room to stay there along with 
this election petition till 4 P . M . so that ho could present it 
to that Judge when he is about to rise ; accordingly , the 
petitioner was writing in that court- room with his election 
petition when at 3 . 55 P . M . his counsel Mr. G . P . Roy 
offered to present thc clection petition to him ; the Judge, 
however , asked the counsel to file the petition before 
C , P , Sinha , Y ., as he was the senior of the two; when 
the counsel pointed oul to him that it was already 3 .57 P . M . 
and the other Judge was holding court at the other end of 


25. In the case at hand provisions of section 10 of tho 
General Clauses Act cannot be invoked to justify the pre 
sentation of this election petition on 20 - 3 - 1972 (Monday ) 
instead of 18 -3 - 1972 (Saturday ) because the latter was not 
a holiday of the Court. It being a Saturday only the Judges 
were not sitting in Court to do judicial work , which was 
in keeping with Court s long standing practice . Court s 
offices were nevertheless open and fully functioning on that 
day ( 18 - 3 - 1972 ). Merc non -sitting of tho Judges in Court 
on a Saturday, which they do to be able to finish their 
i eserved judgments, cannot make it a closed day for the 
Court. It is in this context that in the High Court calendar 
when Sundays and other holidays are shown in red , a 
Saturday is shown as a working day like other working wcek 
days. In fact, on some of the Saturdays Judges do sit in 
Court and transact judicial works like othor week days . 
In Civil Review No 3 of 1965 , Md. Owais and others 
v . Phul Bibi and others, disposed of by this Court on 
28 - 4 - 1965 learned Judge , K . Sahai, J .. in the review petition 
as time-barred because it had been filed on Monday instead 
of the preceding Saturday on which the limitation cxpired . 
While doing so he clearly held that Saturday is a court 
day and the office keeps working on that day and simply 


Sec. 3 (ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2151 


because the Benches Jo not sit on a Saturday because it 
is kept apart for writing the reserved judgments etc ., it 
cannot be said that Saturday is not a court day. 


26 . No doubt, in the reports called for from the Court s 
oftice they have testified to the correctness of the averments 
of the petitioner in his abovc supplementary affidavit regard . 
ing his counsel s attempt to present the election petition at 
3 . 55 P . M . on 20 - 3 - 1972 in the court of J . Narain , J ., and his 
Lordships observation thut he should do it before the senior 
Judge ( C . P . Sinha, J ., ), that on 20 - 3 - 1972 hç learned Chicf 
Justice had not come to Court and also that till that 
day the Chief Justice had not specifically assigned any Judge of 
the Court for 1972 election petitions. But, as will appear from 
the subsequent discussion , on these facts alone the election 
petition cannot be treated to have been filed in time. 


the compotence of the Registrar to accept the presentation 
of the election petition even if done, becaus @ the matter 
related to exclusivo original juſidication of the Court which 
could not be delegated to the Registrar in any circumstanco 
and that presentation had to wait for the Judgo pittiog in 
Court. As such , the respodent cannot invoko aid of this 
rule 26 to challenge the legality of its presentation before 
the Judge on 20 - 3 - 1972 which had necessarily to be resorted 
to make the presentation proper and legal. I am unablo to 
appreciate the correctness of this contention. Rule 3 provides 
for hearing or presentation of the matters specified therein 
Court or in Chambers , as the Bench may direct. It also 
provides for the filing of every other appeal, motion or 
application , except entertainable by the Registrar, Deputy 
Registrar or Assistant Registrar in open Court. Rule 13 sets 
out the powers and duties of the Registrar over and above 
conferred on him by other rules. Rule 26 , is, however, 
wholly unconnected with these rules 3 and 13 . It (rulo 26 ) 
occurs in another Chapter dealing with procedure before 
admission and obviously provides for a contingency for tho 
filing of an appeal or application which is becoming time 
barred and is to be filed before a Bench in court, but on 
that day the Bench is not sitting. The manifest object 
behind this provision is to savo limitation in the matter 
which would otherwise inevitably follow . The question of 
Registrar or Deputy Registrar or Assistant Registrar, as the 
case may be , not being competent to exercise this power 
in the case of an cloction petition bocause it concerns the 
special original jurisdiction of tho Court, to my mind can 
hardly arise because . as I have already indicated , ju tho 
Court Election Rules itself (vido rulo 24 ) this rule 26 
has been made directly applicable to the presentation of 
an election petition also in those circumstances . 


27 . As noticed above , rule 6 of the Court Election Ruleg 
impliedly enjoins for the presentation of an election petition 
before the Judge concerned in open Court. Its proviso 
permits the presentation of the petition before the Bench 
hearing Civil Applications and Motions on any Court day 
when tho Judge concerned is not available on account of 
temporary absence or otherwise. This proviso could not , 
however, come into play on that Saturday ( 18 - 3 - 1972) be 
cause on that day neither the Judge nor the Civil Applica 
tions Bench were sitting in Court. According to rulo 7 , 
the date of presentation of the election petition to the Judge 
or the Bench , as the case may be shall be deemed to be 
tho date of its filing for the purposes of limitation . On this 
basis , the respondent has contended that since the election 
petition was presented on 20 - 3 - 1972 that must be dcemed 
to be the date of its presentation for the purposes of limi 
tation and it was in this background that the Court s Stamp 
Roporter had pointed out in his report that the limitation 
in the case expired on 18 - 3 - 1972 , which was two days before 
its actual presentation , 


28. Rulo 24 of tho Court Election Rules says that the 
Patna High Court Rules , except in so far as they are 
inconsistent with theso Election Rulcs , shall apply mutatis 
mutandis to all election petitions, and where no specific pro 
vision has been mado in the Act , Civil Proceduro Code of 
the High Court Rules the Judge may pass such orders as 
he may consider necessary . 


29 . Rule 26 , Part- II- Chapter VII at page 37 of the 1972 
Edition of the Rules of the High Court at Patna, 1916 , 
provides that on any Court day on which no Bench is or 
has been sitting, any mcmorandum of appcal or application 
which might be barred by time and while in entertalnablo 
only by a Bench may be presented to the Registrar or, in 
his absence from Court on that day to the Deputy Registrar, 
or in their absence , to the Assistant Registrar , who shall 
certify thcreon that such memorandum of appeal or applica 
tion was on that day presented to bim ; provided always that 
no such presentation to the Registrar , Deputy Registrar or 
Assistant Registrar, shall be of any effect unless such memo 
randum of appeal or application be presented to a Bench 
on the next subsequent day on which the Bench is sitting . 
In the instant case , as it appears to me, this rule 26 was 
clearly attracted in the contact. The election petition was 
going to be timo barred on that date , 1.c ., 18 - 3 - 1972 , and 
the election petition was entertainablc only by a Bench 
but no Bench , single or Division , was sitting on that day 
being & Saturday. As this rule 26 stands, it cannot be 
said to be in any way inconsistent with any of the Court 
Elcction Rules . In fact, in these Rules there is no provi 
Rion to meet such a contingency. The above referred to 
proviso to rule 6 does not provide for the presentation of 
an election petition on a Saturday when no Bench is sitting , 
rather it permits presentation of an election petition to the 
sitting Civil Applications Bench on a court-day when the 
Tudge concerned Is not available due to his temporary absence 
or otherwise . Thus, reading the provigions of these rules 24 
And 26 together, the inescapable conclusion is that it was 
incumbent for the petitioner to have presented the clcction 
petition to the Registrar , Deputy Registrar or Assistant 
Registrar of the Court, as the case may be, on 18 - 3 - 1972 
on which its limitation was going to end and the Judges were 
found absent from Court being a Saturday . 


31. The next contention of the petitioner that in viow of 
the definition of the Judge, as it occurs in the Court Elec 
tion Rules, the Registrar of the Court, who is just an 
administrative figure in the hicrarchy of Court s staff , can 
in no circumstanco be taken to be authorised to accept tho 
presentation of an election petition under this rulo 26 ap 
pears to be equally untçnable . Registrar s authority to exer 
cise this power , in 4 given situation, is fully established 
by reading the provisions of these rules 24 and 26 together . 
As they stand , the position of the Registrar as a simplo 
administrative figure on the Court s staff is not relevant on 
this point, As shown above , he has been specially authorised 
by the Cout in the Rules as framed by it in thoso circum 
stances , His status in Court s hierarchy is , accordingly , im 
material because when he has been so empowered by the 
Court he can well exercise it Irrespective of that statina , 

32. The authorities in Babu Lachmeshwar Prasad Shukul 
and others v . Babu Girdhari Lal Chaudhuri and others 
( A . I. R . 1939 Patna 667- F . B .) and Badri Narayan Singh and 
others v . Kalyan Prågad Shroff and others ( A .I. R . 1956 
Patna 522 ) relled upon by the petitioner to negative the 
stand of the respondent in this behalf. I am inclined to 
think , with great respect, are of no material assistance to 
him . As their perusal will show , the facts thercin were 
wholly different and distinguishable . In the first, the ques 
tion in the case concerned was regarding condonation of 
delay which the petitioner had made in depositing the amount 
of printing costs in a Federal Court appeal. Tho decrcc 
of the High Court in that case , as it appeary , was signed on 
13th February , 1939 and on the 11th May, 1935 tho appcl 
lant filed a petition under Order 45 Rule 2 of tuo Code 
of Civil Procedure. The High Court Vacation was from 
12- 5- 1939 to 23 - 7 - 1939, On 29- 5 - 1939 notice of tho amount 
of printing costs was served upon the appellants and they 
tendered the money on the 24th July , 1939 on which the 
Court had opened after the vacation and it was accepted 
hy the Registrar of the Court subject to any others passed 
hy the Bench . The limitation in that case expired on 16th 
June, 1939 which was within the vacation . It was urged for 
the appellants that since the Court was closed for the vaca 
tion they could not make the deposit until the opening day . 
Their Lordships in the majority Judginent held that the Court 
is not close during the vacation and the money can be 
deposited and if tendered will be accepted . They further 
held that the deposit for printing costs may be made when 
tho Couit is not sitting but when the office is open . They 
further felt satisfied that there has been considerable mis 
understanding as to what business the office of this Court 
transacts during the vacation as no orders have been issued 
as to what thc Court will do or will not do during the 
vacation . In those circumstances, they thought that the ap 
pellants honestly believed that they could deposit tho money 


30 . By reference to the provision of rules 3 and 13 of the 
above Patna High Court Rules (Part I- Chapter II, at pages 
6 - 7 -) Mr. Chatterjee haş submitted that it was wholy beyond 


2152 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


( PART II — 


- - 


on the opening day . Accordingly , they held that there were 
cogent reasons in this caso for extending the time for making 
the doposit and ordered thọ office to accept the deposit 
90 made. In the present case , there is no question of the 
election petition having been made during the Court s vaca 
tion, so as to givo rise to any such confusion . Here the 
olmple question is whether the petitioner s filing of the clec 
tion potition on 20 -3 - 1972 instead of 18 - 3- 1972 , on which the 
limitation expired , because it (18 -3- 1972) was a Saturday 
was a filling within time. 


imple quest to give rise been madeore is , 


33 . In the second case , i.e., A . I. R . 1956 Patna 522 their 
Lordships have held the entertainment of the execution 
petition a valid presentation before the Second Officer in the 
absence on tour of the Subdivisional Officer who exercised 
the powers of a Subordinate Judge and had exclusive juris 
diction to entertain it undei the Santhal Pargana , Justice 
Regulation , even though he ( Second Officer ) had no written 
authority in his favour to do so . The petitioner has in 
tbls caso tried to rely upoil their obltor which is to the 
effect : " When a Court competent to entertain an applica . 
tion for execution is absent on tour and there is no other 
office competent to receive such application the Court must 
bo held to be closed for purposes of S . 4 Limitation Act 
80 long as Court is absent." As I have shown above, the 
provisions of the Limitation Act havo no application to an 
cloction petition . Moreover, on my above showing , it would 
be evident that there was a competent authority , namely , 
Registrar or Doputy Rogistrar or Assistant Registrar of the 
Court , as the case may be, on that Saturday (18 -3- 1972) 
before whom the election petition required its presentation 
to save it from limitation as it was going to be time barrej 
on that day . 


Justice of myself as also J. Narain , J., were in respect of 
specified election cascs as fiked in 1971. The trial of this 
Election Petition no . 1 of 1972 was assigned to me by 
the Chief Justice in his order dated 26 - 3 - 1972 (notified in 
Court s list on 27-3- 1972 ). Under that very order he also 
assigned to me the election cases which might be filled 
arising out of the general elections held for the Bihar 
Vidhan Sabha in 1972 . It is, however , not quite under 
standable as to how the pctitioner can avall of these facts 
to justify the deluy made in presenting this clection petition 
on 20 - 3- 1972 , cither hefore me or before J. Narain , J., nonc 
of whom according to him was till then Assigned by the 
Chief Justice to entertain and try any clection petition of 
1972. The situation in this behalf was also the same on 
18-3 -1972 . As such , it was all the more necessary for 
him to have availed of the provision of aforesaid rulo 26 
to present the election petition before the Registrar on that 
last day of limitation , i.c., 18 -3 - 1972 on which no Judge 
was sitting in Court being a Saturday, and then wait for 
its formal presentation in open Court again as required under 
that rule , which , in the circumstances, would have been 
the Chief Justice, as he had not assigned any other Judge 
for the purpose till then . But nothing like this was done. 


36 . Thus, after having carefully considered all the above 
facts, I have not hesitation to bold that the presentation of 
this clection petition on 20 -3 - 1972 was obviously boyond 
the period of 45 days as prescribed in section 81 of the 
Act. This being so , it must be deemed to have failed to 
comply with the provisions of this section (81). As already 
pointed out, section 86 of the Act enjolies that the High 
Court shall dismiss an election petition which does not 
comply with the provision of section 81, 82 or 117. In 
view of this, this election petition found wanting in com 
pliance of the provisions of section 81 has got to be dis 
missed as such without compelling thc parties to proceed 
to Its trial on merlts. 


37. In the result, the election petition is dismissed under 
soction 86 of the Act. Parties shall bear their own costs . 


C . P , SINHA , Judge. 


PATNA HIGH COURT : 
The 26th March , 1973 . 


(No. 82 / BR / 1 / 72 ] 
A . N . SEN , Secy , 


34 . To counteract the above obiter of the learned Judges 
respondent has called my attention to the Division Bench 
authority in Sajjan Singh and another v. Bhogilal Pandya 
and another (AIR . 1958 Rajasthan 309). The relevant 
question was whether the recriminatory petition under sec 
ion 97 of the Act as filed on 12- 8- 1957 was in time. The 
other side objected that it has been filed beyond the pres 
cribed period of limitation of 14 days of the commencement 
of trial which was said to be 23 - 7- 1937. The recriminatory 
petitioner tried to meet that objection on the ground that 
the Election Tribunal (which was the District Judge, Udaipur ) 
did not sit at Udaipur from the 5th to 11th August, 1957 
and sat for the first time there on the 12th August and also 
that it had not appointed anybody to receive petitions and 
notices etc . On its behalf upto that time. The Tribunal 
accepted that plça and treated the recriminatory petition 
within time. In appeal to the High Court, their Lordships 
rojected that plea and held that petition to bo beyond time 
on the ground, inter alia , that though the Tribunal was 
away on official tour but the Munserim of the Court was 
throughout available and that petition should and could have 
been submitted to that Munserim without any difficulty to 
save it being time barred . 


विधि , न्याय और कम्पनी कार्य मंत्रालय 


C ut of TETHTT) 
per te rent, 1973 

लार्ड एकाउन्ट 


35 . The fact of non -assignment of Judge or Judges by 
the Chief Justice for trying 1972 election petitions till 
20- 3- 1972 and the absence of the Chief Justice from Court 
on that day , to my judgment, is not particularly helpful to 
the potitioner to over-como this burdle of limitation , Ay 
the Court s records show , previous assignments by the Chief 


06. 27. 1682. C r eta arferparah , 1949 ( 194997 
38 ) * UTT 92 59-44T ( 2 mar ( ) Braila put of the 
भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व वाणिज्य और उद्योग मंत्रालय (कम्पनी 
Papy waha PTTT) 9 fra T 9 , 311 275, arta 
12 href, 1958 (74-748 ore TUT FRUIT) 7 sfuma 
करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त खंड के अधीन भारतीय चाई 
एकाउन्टेंट संस्था- परिषद् के निर्वाचन के प्रयोजनों के लिए दिनांक 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973 / JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


2153 


Northern Region:- - 
(5) The States of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh , Jammu 

and Kashmir and Punjab and the Union Territories 
of Dolhi and Chandigarh . 

[ F. 7 / 16/ 73-IGC] 
R. K. TALWAR , Under Secy . 


नई दिल्ली, 24 मई , 1973 


13 अप्रैल, 1973 से निम्नलिखित पांध क्षेत्रीय निर्वाचन क्षेत्र विनि 
दिष्ट करती है , अर्थात् : 
( 1 ) पश्चिमी क्षेत्र - गुजरात और महाराष्ट्र के राज्य तथा गोवा , 

वमण और वीव तथा पावरा और नागर सर्दली के संघ 

राज्य- क्षेत्र । 
(2 ) दक्षिणी क्षेत्र - आन्ध्र प्रदेश , करल, मैसूर, तालनाह, के 

राज्य तथा पांडिचेरी और लंक्कादीव, मिनिकाय और 

अमीनदीवी द्वीपसमूह के संघ राज्यक्षेत्र । 
( 3) पूर्वी क्षेत्र - असम, मेघालय , नागालँड, उहीसा , पश्चिमी 

बंगाल , मणिपुर और त्रिपुरा के राज्य तथा अरूणाचल 
प्रदेश , मिजोरम और अण्डमान और नीकोबार द्वीपसमूद 

के संघ राज्य- क्षेत्र । 
(4) केन्द्रीप क्षेत्र -उस्तर प्रपेश, बिहार , मध्यप्रदेश और 

राजस्थान के राज्य । 
(5 ) उत्तरी क्षेत्र - हरियाणा, हिमाचल प्रदेश , जम्मू और 

कश्मीर तथा पंजाब के राज्य और दिल्ली तथा चण्डीगड 
के संघ राज्यक्षेत्र । 

[ फा. 7/ 18 / 73- आई. जी . सी .] 

आर. के . तलवार, अवर सचिष 


का , आ . 1683. एकाधिकार एवं निर्भन्धकारी व्यापार प्रथा अधि . 
नियम , 1969 (1969 का 54) की धारा 28 की उप -धारा (3 ) के 
अनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्धारा मैसर्स नेशनल मशीनरी 
मैन्यूफैक्चरर्स लिमिटेड के कथित अधिनियम के अन्तर्गत पंजी 
करण ( पंजीकरण प्रमाण-पत्र संख्या 224 / 70 दिनांक 24 अक्टूबर 
70 ) के निरस्तीकरण को अधिसूचित करती है । 

[ संख्या 22 / 48/ 52 - स्म ( 2 ) ] 
एस. बलरामन , अवर सचिव 


New Delhi, the 24th May, 1973 


MINISTRY OF LAW , JUSTICE & COMPANY AFFAIRS 

( Department of Company Affairn ) 
___ New Delhi, the 1973. 
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 


S . O . 1683 . — In pursuance of sub -section (3 ) section 26 of 
tho Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, (54 of 
1969 ), the Central Government hereby notifies the cancella . 
tion of the registration of M / s. NATIONAL MACHINERY 
MANUFACTURERS LTD . under the said Act (Certificate of 
Registration No. 224 / 70 dated the 24th October, 1970 ). 

INo. 22 / 48 / 72- M(II )] 
S . BALARAMAN , Under Secy. 


वित्त मंत्रालय 
( राजस्व और भीमा विभाग ) 
नई दिल्ली, 3 मई , 1973 


आप - कर 


s. o . 1682.--- In pursuance of clause ( a ) of sub-section ( 2 ) 
of section 9 of the Chartered Accountants Act , 1949, (38 of 
1949 ) and in supersession of the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Indus 
try (Department of Company Law Administration ) No. S .O . 
275, dated the 12th March, 1958, ( as amended from time to 
time) the Central Government hereby specifies the following 
five regional constituencies w .e.f. 13th April 1873 for the 
purposes of elections to the Council of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India under the cold clauso, 
namely : 
Western Region 1 
(1) The States of Gujarat and Maharashtra and the 

Union Territories of Goa, Daman and Diu and 

Dadra and Nagar Haveli . 
Southern Region : 
( 2) The States of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala , Mysore , 

Taml Nadu and the Union Territories of Pondi 
cherry and the Laccadive , Minicoy and Amindivi 

Islands. 
Easteru Region - 
( 3 ) The States of Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Orissa , 

West Bengal, Manipur and Tripura and the Union 
Territories of Arunachal Pradesh , Mizoram and the 

Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 
Central Region : 
( 4 ) The States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar , Madhya Pradesh 

and Rajasthan. 


का . आ . 1684. -.-सर्वसाधारण की जानकारी के लिए यह अधिसूचित 
किया जाता है कि भारतीय कृषि अनुसन्धान परिषद् , विहित प्राधि 
कारी द्वारा गीचे वर्णित संस्था को , आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 की 
धारा 35 की उपधारा (1) के खण्ड (2) के प्रयोजनों के लिए पो वर्ष 
की अवधि के लिए अनमोदित किया गया ई । यह अधिसूचना 1 
अप्रैल, 1973 से प्रभावी होगी । 


संस्था 


धर्मीसंह एग्रिकल्चरल रिसर्च एण्ड डवलपमेंट फाउनाडेशन 
प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, मुम्बई । 
[ सं. 342 - फा . सं. 203/ 17 / 73- आई . टी. ए. 2 ] 

टी. पी . झ,नझ,नघाला, उप - सचिव 


स 


2154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[ PART II . 


New Delhi , the 16th June , 1973 

CUSTOMS 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue & Insurance ) 
New Delhi, the 3rd May, 1973 

INCOME- TAX 
S. O . 1684. - It is hereby notified for general informa 
tion that the institution mentioned below has been approved 
by Indian Council of Agricultural Rosearch , the prescribed 
authority for the purposes of clause ( ii) of sub -section ( 1) 
of Section 35 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 for n period 
of two years . The notification takes effect from 1st April, 
1937 . 

INSTITUTION 
DHARMSINH AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND 

DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION PVT. LTD ., 
BOMBAY . 

[ No. 342 - F. No . 203 / 17 / 73 -ITA. II] 
T . P. JHUNJHUNWALA, Dy. Secy . 


S. O . 1686. ...In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 
( d ) of section 7 of the Customs Act, 1962 ( 52 of 1962 ) 
and of all other powers cnabling heieunto the Central Gov 
ernment hereby appoints tho port of Sinbhor situated in tho 
District of Diu in the union territory of Goa , Daman and 
Diu to be coastal port for carrying on of trade in coastal 
goods with all ports in India . 

[ No. 96( IF. No. 574 / 1 / 73 - LCII)] 
K . SANKARARAMAN, Under Secy . 
( की कग विभाग ) 
नई दिल्ली, 29 मई , 1978 


नई दिल्ली, 11 मई , 1973 
का . आ . 1685. - आय -कर अधिनियम , 1961 (1961 का 
43) की धारा 2 के खंड ( 44 ) के उपखंस (3 ) वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हए, केन्द्रीय सरकार, श्री के . पी . पनढारकर की , 
जो केन्द्रीय सरकार के राजपत्रित अधिकारी है , उक्त अधिनियम 
के अधीम कर वसूली अधिकारी की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने 
के लिए प्राधिकृत करती है । 

2. यह अधिसूचना, जो अधिसूचना सं . 177 ( फा . सं . 404 ! 
62/ 71- आई टी सी सी ) , तारीख 14-6-1971 का अधिकमण करती 
है , पुरन्स प्रवृत्त होगी । 
सं . 349 ( फा . सं . 404 / 124 / 73- आई . टी . सी . सी .1 

एम . एन . नम्बियार, अवर सचिव 
New Delhi, the 11th May, 1973 
S. O . 1685. -In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
clause ( iii ) of clause (44 ) of Section 2 of the Income-tax 
Act , 1961 (43 of 1961) the Central Government hereby 
authorises Shri K . P . Pandharkar, who is a Gazetted Officer 
of the Central Government, to exercise the powers of a 
Tax Recovery Officer under the said Act. 

2. This notification which supersedes Notification No . 
177( F. No. 404 / 62 / 71-ITCC ) dated 14-6- 1971 shall come 
into force with immediate effect. 

[ No. 349 ( F. No. 404 /124 / 73-ITCC) ] 

___ M. N. NAMBIAR, Under Secy . 


का . आ . 1687. - किंग विनियमन अधिनियम , 1949 (1949 
का 10वां ) की धारा 56 के साथ पठित धारा 53 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार , भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक की सिफा 
रिश पर, एतद्द्वारा घोषणा करती है कि उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 
11 की उपधारा ( 1) के उपबन्ध दी बकवी अर्बन को - आपरेटिव बैंक 
लि ., अर्बन पर 26 नवम्बर, 1971 से 29 सितम्बर, 1972 तक की 
अवधि के लिए लागू नहीं होंगे । 

[ सं . एफ . 8/ 2/ 73-ए. सी . ] 

कृ. भवानी, अवर सचिव 
( Department of Banking ) 

New Delhi, the 29th May, 1973 
S . 0 . 1687. --In exercise of the powers conferred by sec 
tion 53 read with section 56 of the Banking Regulation Act, 
1949 (10 of 1949 ), the Central Government , on the recom 
mendation of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares 
that the provisions of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 11 of the 
said Act shall not apply to the Rabkavi Urban Co- opera 
tive Bank Ltd., Rabkavi , for the Period from 26 November 
1971 to 29 September 1972 . 

[ No . F. 8 / 2 / 73 - AC ] 
का . आ . 1888.-- बैंकिंग विनियमन अधिनियम , 1949 (1449 
का 10वां ) की धारा 56 के साथ पठित धारा 53 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार , भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक की सिफा 
रिश पर, एतद्द्वारा घोषणा करती है कि उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 
11 की उपधारा (1 ) के उपबन्ध दी भाभर विभाग नागरिक सहकारी 
बैंक लि ., पर 30 दिसम्बर, 1971 से 31 दिसम्बर, 1972 तक की 
अधि के लिए लागू नहीं होंगे । 


[ सं . एफ. 8/2/ 73-ए. स्त्री.] 
कृ. भवानी, अवर सचिव 


नई दिल्ली, 18 जून , 1973 

सीमा - शुल्क 
का . आ . 1686...- सीमा - शुल्क अधिनियम , 1962 (1962 का 52 ) 
की धारा 7 के खण्ड ( घ ) इवारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों और इस निमित्त 
समर्थ बनाने वाली सभी अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हए, केन्द्रीय सरकार, गोवा, दमण और दीव संघ राज्यक्षेत्र के दीव 
जिले में स्थित सिम्भार के पत्तन को भारत में सभी पत्तनों के 
साथ सटवी माल में व्यापार करने के लिए सटपती पत्तन के रूप 
में नियुक्त करती है । 

[ सं . 96 ( फा . सं . 574 /1 /73 एल सी -2) ] 

के. शंकररामन, अवर सचिव 


S . O . 1688 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sec 
tion 53 read with section 56 of the Banking Regulation 
Act , 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ), the Central Government, on the 
recommendation of the Reserve Bank of India hereby dec 
lares that the provisions of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 11 
of the said Act shall not apply to the Bhabar Vibhag Nagrik 
Sahakari Bank Itd ., for the period from 30th December 
1971 to 31st December , 1972. 

INo . F. 8 / 2 / 73. AC ] 
K. BAVANI , Under Secv . 


SEC. 3 ( i ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDJA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2155 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- ... - .. 


- - 


- - 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


-- - - - 


रिजर्व बैंक प्राफ च्या 

नई दिल्ली , 4 जून , 1973 
का० प्रा० 1689.- -रिजर्व बैंक प्राफ इडिया अधिनियम, 1934 के अनुमरण में मई 1973 की 25 तारीख को समाप्त हुये सप्ताह के लिये लेखा इशू विभाग 
देयताये 

रुपये रुपये आस्तिया 

रुपये 

रुपये 
बैंकिग विभाग में रखे 

सोने का सिक्का और बुलि 
हुये नोट 57, 61, 90, 000 

यन : --- 
संचलन मे नोट 5679, 27, 54, 000 

( क ) भारत में रखा हुप्रा 18 2, 53, 11, 000 
( ख ) भारत के बाहर रखा 


- - 


- 


विवेशी प्रतिभूतिया ___ 171, 65, 38, 000 
जारी किये गये कुल नोट 

5736, 89, 44, 000 जोड़ 

354, 18, 49, 000 
रुपये का सिक्का 

3, 35, 63, 000 
भारत सरकार की रुपया 
प्रतिभूतियां 

5379, 35, 32, 000 
देशी विनिमय बिल और 

और दूसरे वाणिज्य पक्ष 
कुल देयताये 5736, 89, 44, 000 कुल प्रास्तिया 

5736, 89, 44, 000 
- - - - 

-- - - - - - - - - - 
तारीख 30 मई , 1973 

एस . जगन्नाथन, गवर्मर 
25 मई , 1973 को रिजर्व बैक प्राफ इरिया के किग विभाग के कार्यकलाप का विवरण 
- - - - देयताये 

रुपये आस्तियां 

रुपये 
- - - - - 
कसा पूजी 5, 00,00, 000 नोट 

57, 61, 90, 000 
आरक्षित निधि . 150, 00, 00, 000 रुपये का सिमका . 

5 , 00, 000 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण 

छोटा सिक्का 

3, 83, 000 
( दीर्घकालोन क्रियाये ) निधि 

209, 00, 00,000 खरीदे और भुनाये गये बिल 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (स्थिरीकरण ) निधि 45, 00, 00,000 ( क ) देशी 

16, 54, 23, 000 
भष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाये ) निधि 

175, 00,00, 000 ( ख ) विवेशी , 
जमाराशियां : - - 

( ग ) सरकारी खजाना मिल . 

314, 83, 46, 000 
( क ) सरकारी 

विदेशों में रखा समा बकाया * 

231 , 35, 27, 000 
( i ) केन्द्रीय सरकार 46, 86, 30 , 000 निवेश * * 

228, 98, 98, 000 
( ii ) राज्य सरकारे , 

6, 27, 79 , 000 ऋण और अग्रिम . - - 
( ख ) बैंक 

( i ) केन्द्रीय सरकार को . 
(i ) अनुसूचित बाणिज्य बैंक 327, 67, 06, 000 (ii ) राज्य सरकारो कोu, . 

132, 75 , 01 , 000 
( ii ) अनुसूचित राज्य सहकारी बैक . 

15, 77, 51 ,000 ऋण और अग्रिम : - - 
( iii ) गैर अनुसूचित राज्य महकारी बैक . 1,18, 83,000 (i) अनुसूचित वाणिज्य बैको को . 

108, 12, 95, 000 
( iv ) अन्य बैंक 63, 16, 000 ( ii ) राज्य सहकारी बैंको कोई 

212, 03, 21 , 000 
( iii ) दूसरो को . 

4 , 70 , 22, 000 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( वीर्घकालीन क्रियाये ) निधि से 
ऋण, अग्रिम और निवेश 
( क ) ऋण भौर अग्रिम : - - 
राज्य सरकारों को 

65, 51 , 66, 000 
ii ) राज्य सहकारी बैंकों को 

19, 40, 17, 000 
( iii ) केन्द्रीय भूमिबन्धक बैंकों को . . 
( iv ) कृषि पुवित्त निगम को 

29, 70 , 00, 000 
80, 9 1, 59,000 ( ख ) केन्द्रीय भूमिबन्धक बैंको के रिवेंचरो मे 

1 1, 24, 73, 000 
निवेश राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (स्थिरीकरण ) निधि 

से ऋण और प्रग्रिम . 
83, 19, 27,000 राज्य सहकारी बैंकों को ऋण और अग्रिम 

29, 45 , 86, 000 
राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाये ) 

निधि से ऋण अग्रिम और निवेश . . 
अन्य देयताये . . . . . 473, 36 ,92, 000 ( क ) विकास बैंक को ऋण और प्रग्रिम . 

95, 09, 36, 000 
( ख ) विकास बैक द्वारा जारी किये गये माडो/ 

डियघरों में निवेश 
अन्य आस्तियाँ . 

62, 42, 59, 000 
रुपये 16 19, 88, 43, 000 

___ 1619, 88, 43, 000 
* नषादी प्रावधिक जमा और अल्पकालीन प्रतिभूतियां शामिल है । 
* * राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( वीर्घकालीन क्रियाये ) निधि और राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण ( वीर्घकालीन क्रियाये ) निधि में से किये गये निवेश शामिल नही है । 
( a, राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( वीर्घकालीन प्रियाये ) निधि से प्रवत्त ऋण और अग्रिम शामिल नहीं है, परन्तु राज्य सरकारों को दिये गये प्रस्थाई मोयराफ्ट शामिल है । 
रिजर्व बैंक आफ इंग्यिा अधिनियम की धारा 17 ( 4 ) (ग ) के अधीन अनुसूचित वाणिज्य बैको को मीयादी बिलो पर अग्रिम दिये गये 11, 35, 00, 000 

रुपये शामिल है । 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाये ) निधि और राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (स्थिरीकरण ) निधि से प्रवत्त ऋण और अग्रिम शामिल नहीं है । 
तारीख - 30 मई , 1973 

एम० जगन्नाथन , गवर्नर 
[ मं० फ01 ( 1 )/ 73-ब० प्रो०- 1 ] 
च० व० मीरचन्दानी , अयर सचित्र 


मन्य 


. 


(ग) अन्य 
देय बिल 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


80,91,59, 
93,19,27,000 


. 


- - 


- . 


- - 


- ... - - 


- 


-- - - - - 


- 


2156 


- - - - 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

[PART II — 

ZIT . ITI 
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 

Now Delhi, the 4th Juno , 1973 
$ . O . 1689.-- An Account pursuant lo the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934 , for the week endod the 25th day of May, 1973 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


- 


- 


Liabilitios 


- - 
Rs . 


Rs. 


Assets 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Banking 


182 ,53, 11 , 000 


Notes held in the 

Dopartment 
Notes in circulation 
Total Notos issued 


57,61 ,90 ,000 
5679,27,54 ,000 


: 


171 ,65 , 38 , 000 


Gold Coin and Bullion ; 

(a ) Held in India 
(6 ) Held outside India 

Foreign Şecurities . 
5736 , 89,44 ,000 

Total . . . 
Rupoo Coin : : 
Governmont of India Rupec 

Securities 
Internal Bills of Exchange 

and other commorcial papor 
5736 ,89 ,44 ,000 Total Assets . . . 


3 $ 4 , 18 ,49 ,000 

3 ,35 ,63, 000 


5379, 35, 32 , 000 


5736 ,89 , 44 ,000 


Total Liabilities . . . 
Dated the 30th Day of May, 1973. 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


S . JAGANNATHAN , Govornor 


Statoment of the Affairs of the Rosorve Bank of India , Banking Department as on tho 25th May , 1973 

- - - - - 
Liabilities 

Rs. 

Assets 


RS. 


Capital Paid up 5 , 00 , 00 , 000 Notes 

57 ,61, 90 , 000 
Rupee Coin . 

$ , 00 ,000 
Rosorve Fund 150 ,00 , 00 ,000 Small Coin .. 

3 ,83 , 000 

Bills Purchased and Discounted : 
National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Opora 

(a ) Internal . 

16 ,54 ,23 ,000 
tions) Fund . 

. . . . 209 ,00 ,00 ,000 (b ) External 
(c ) Government Treasury Bills 

314 ,83, 46 ,000 
National Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation) Fund . 45 , 00 , 00 , 000 Balances Held Abroad * 

231 , 35 , 27, 000 
Investments * * . . 

228 ,98 , 98 , 000 

Loans and Advances to : 
National Industrial Credit ( Long Term Operations) 

(i) Central Government 
Fund 175 ,00,00, 000 (il) State Governments @ . . . 

132, 75 ,01, 000 

Loans and Advancos to : 
Doposits : 

(i) Scheduled Commercial Bankst . . 108 , 12 ,95 , 000 

(ii ) State Co - operative Banks . . . 212 , 03 , 21, 000 
(a ) Governmont 

(111) Others 

4 , 70 ,22, 000 
(i) Contral Government . . . . 46 ,86 , 30 , 000 Loans Advances and Investments from Na 
(ii) Stalo Governments . . . . 6 , 27 , 79 , 000 tional Agricultural Credit (Long Torin 

Operations ) Fund 

(a ) Loans and Advances to : 
(b ) Banks 

(i) State Governments , i 

65,51, 66 , 000 
( 1) Scheduled Commercial Banks 327,67 , 06 ,000 (ii) Stato Co -operative Banks , 

19 , 40 , 17 , 000 
(il) Scheduled State Co- operative Banks . 

15,77 , 51 ,000 ( iii) Central Land Mortgage Banks . 
( iii ) Non - Scheduled State Co- operativo Banks 1 , 18 , 83, 000 (iv ) Agricultural Refinance Corporation . 29 ,70 ,00 ,000 
( iv ) Other Banks . . . . . 

63 , 16 , 000 (b ) Investment in Central Land Mortgage 
Bank Debcntures , , , , 

11,24 ,73 ,000 
(c ) Others 

80 , 91 ,59, 000 Loans and Advances from National Agricul 
Bills Payable . . . . . . . 

83, 19, 27, 000 tural Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund 
Other Liabilitios 

473 , 36 , 92 ,000 Loans and Advances to State Co -operative 
Banks : 

29,45,86,000 
Loans, Advances and Investments from Na 

tional Industrial Credit (Long Term Opera 

tions ) Fund 
(a ) Loans and Advances to the Development 
Bank . 

95,09 ,36 ,000 
(b ) Investment in bonds/debentures issued by 

tho Developinent Bank . . . 
Other Assets 

62,42 ,59,000 
Rupees , i , . 1619 , 88 , 43, 000 

Rupees . . . . 1619 ,88 ,43 ,000 
* Includes Cash , Fixed Deposits and Short -term Securities. 
* * Excluding Investments from the National Agrioultural Credit ( Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit 

(Long Term Oporations ) Fund . 
@ Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Oporations) Fund , but including temporary 

Overdrafts to Statc Govornments . 
Includes Rs . 11,35,00 ,000 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Section 17(4) (c ) of the Reserve 
Bank of India Act . 
Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit ( Long Terin Operations) Fund and the National Agri 

cultural Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund . 
Dated the 30th day of May, 1973 , 

S . JAGANNATHAN , Governor. 

[No, F . 1 (1) / 73 B .O . -I] 
Ç . W . MIRCHANDANI, Under Socy . 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2157 


% 


- 


- - 


सश मंत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली, 29 मई , 1973 


का . आ . 1890 सी . पी . ई . ओ./ 4 / 13] . - उस्प्रवासन अधि 
नियम , 1922 (1922 का सातंवा) की धारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्र सरकार इसके दवारा श्री बी . वी . एस . राव के 
अवकाश पर अनुपस्थित रहने के समय मंडपम कैम्प तथा सूती 
कोरिन के उत्प्रवासी संरक्षक श्री एप कासिम खां को 4 मई , 1973 
के पूर्वहन से उनकी अपनी ड्यूटी के अतिरिक्त नागपदनम् । के 
उत्प्रवासी संरक्षक के रूप में भी नियुक्त करती है । 


और निरीक्षण ) नियम , 1973 के प्रारूप के अनुसार क्या 
लिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण के उस प्रकार के रूप में 
विनिर्दिष्ट करना जो ऐसे वाय - संपीडकों को निर्यात से 

पूर्व लागू होगा; 
( 3 ) भारतीय या किसी भी अन्य राष्ट्रीय मानक को पाथ 

संपीडकों के लिए मानक विनिर्देश के रूप में मान्यता 

देना , 
( 4 ) एसे वायु - संपीडक के अंतर्राष्ट्रीय व्यापार के दौरान निर्यात 

का तब तक प्रतिषेध करना जब तक कि उसके साथ 
निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियत्रण और निरीक्षण ) अधिनियम, 
1983 (1983 का 22 ) की धारा 7 के अधीन स्थापित 
किसी भी निर्यात निरीक्षण अभिकरण द्वारा दिया गया 
इस आशय का प्रमाणपत्र न हो कि वाय - संपीडको का 
परषण उसके क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण से संबं 

धिस शो को पूरा करता है और वह निर्यात-योग्य है । 
3. इस आदेश में, “वाय -संपीडक " रो ऐसा यंत्र अभिमत है 
जो आरिम्भक सामान्य वायमण्डलीय दबाव से वाय को भीतर 
खींचती है और उच्चतर दबाव के साथ उसको छोड़ता है , किन्त, 
इसके अन्तर्गत निर्यातक या निर्वात पंप नहीं है । 


[ सं . फा . 3 ( 24) वी -चार/ 80 ] 


टी . वी . रामकृष्ण राव , अवर सचिव 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 29th May, 1973 
s . o . 1690 CPE0 / 4 / 737. - - In exercise of the powers con 
ferred by Section 3 of the Emigration Act , 1922 ( VII of 
1922 ), the Central Government hereby appoints Shrl H . 
Kasim Khan, Protector of Emigrants, Mandapam Camp & 
Tuticorin, to be Protector of Emigrants, Nagapattinam, in 
addition to his own dutics with effect from the forenoon of 
the 4th May , 1973, during the absence on 1cave of Shri 
B . V . S. Rao . 

[ No. F. 3 (24) V . IV/ 60 ] 
____ T . V . RAMAKRISHNA RAO , Under Secy . 


उपाध 
निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण ) अधिनियम , 1963 
( 1983 का 22 ) की धारा 17 के अधीन बनाए जाने के लिए प्रस्थापित 
प्रारूप-नियम । 


पाणिज्य मंत्रालय 

आपेश 
नई दिल्ली, 16 जून , 1973 


__ 1. संक्षिप्त नाम और प्रारम्भ . - (1 ) इस नियमों का नाम वाय 
संपीडक निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण ) नियम , 1973 


( 2 ) 


ये 


को प्रवृत्त होंगे । 


का . आ . 1691. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि निर्यात 
( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण ) अधिनियम , 1983 ( 1983 का 
22) की धारा 6 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, भारत 
के निर्यात व्यापार के विकास के लिए ऐसा करना आवश्यक और 
समीचीन है कि वाय -संपीडक निर्यात से पूर्व क्वालिटी नियंत्रण 
और निरीक्षण के अधीन होंगे । 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त प्रयोजन के लिए नीचे विनि 
दिष्ट प्रस्ताव बनाए हैं और उन्हें निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण 
और निरीक्षण ) नियम , 1984 के नियम 11 के उप-नियम ( 2 ) 
वाय यथापेक्षिस निर्यात निरीक्षण परिषद् को भेज स्थिा है । 


2. परिभाषाएं . - इन नियमों में , जब तक संदर्भ के अन्यथा 
अपेक्षित न हो : 
( क ) " अधिनियम " से निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरी 

क्षण) अधिनियम , 1983 (1963 का 22) अभिप्रेत , 
( ख ) “ अभिकरण " से केन्द्रीय सरकार झ्वारा अधिनियम की 

धारा 7 के अधीन कोचीन , मद्रास , कलकत्ता, मुम्बई या 
दिल्ली में स्थापित निर्यात निरीक्षण अभिकरणों में 

काई एक अभिप्रेत है , 
( ग ) " वायु - संपीडक " से ऐसा यंत्र अभिप्रेत है जो आरंभिक 

सामान्य वायुमंडलीय दबाव से पाय को भीतर खींचता है 
और उस्चतर दबाव के साथ उसको छोड़ता है , किन्तु, 
इसके अन्तर्गत निर्यातक या निर्वात नहीं है । 


अतः अब , उक्त उप-नियम के अनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार 
उक्त प्रस्तावों को उनसे संभाव्यतः प्रभावित होने वाले व्यक्तियों 
की जानकारी के लिए प्रकाशित करती है । 


2. यह सूचना दी जाती है कि यदि कोई व्यक्ति उक्स प्रस्तावों 
के बारे में कोई आक्षेप या सुझाव भेजना चाहे तो वह उन्हें इस 
आदेश के राजपत्र में प्रकाशन की तारीख से तीस दिन के अन्दर 
निर्यात निरीक्षण परिषद्, “वर्ल्ड ट्रेड सेन्टर", 141 बी , एजरा स्ट्रीट, 
( 7वीं मंजिल), कलकत्ता-1 को भेज सकता है । 


3. क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और मिरीक्षण. - ( 1) वाय- संगीहकों की 
क्वालिटी इन मियमों से उपषद्ध सारणी में विनिर्दिष्ट नियंत्रा 
के स्तरों सहित उप -नियम ( 2) में विनिर्दिष्ट विनिर्माण के 
विभिन्न प्रक्रमों पर नियंत्रणों का प्रयोग करके सनिश्चित की 
जाएगी ; 


प्रस्ताव 


(1 ) यह अधिसूचित करना कि वाय, संपीडक निर्यात से पूर्व 

क्यालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण के अधीन होंगे ; 
( 2 ) अवालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण के प्रकार को इस आवंश 
के उपाबंध में दिर्घ गए पाय-संपीडक निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण 


( 2) उप-नियम ( 1 ) में वर्णित विनिर्माण उत्पादन के विभिन्न 
प्रकमों पर नियंत्रण निम्नलिखित नियंत्रण होंगे, अर्थात : 
( 1 ) खरीपा गया सामान और पदक नियंत्रण . ~ ( क ) क्रय 

विनिश, विनिर्माता द्वारा प्रयुक्त किए जाने वाले 
सामान या घटकों के गुणों सथा सहायताओं सहित 


2158 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[ PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - -- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


-: : - - -- 


. . 


. - - - - 


सत्संबंधी विस्तृत विभागों को समाविष्ट करते हुए 

बनाए जाएंगे । 
( ख ) स्वीकृत परषणों के साथ या तो उत्पादक का क्रय 

विनिर्देशों की अपेक्षाओं की पुष्टि करते हुए परीक्षण 
परेषण -प्रमाण -पत्र हांगा था ऐसे परीक्षण प्रमाणपत्र के न 
होने पर प्रत्येक परषण से नमूनों के परीक्षण क्रय विनि 
दंशों से उस की अनुरूपता की जांच करने के लिए 
नियमित रूप से किया जाएगा । उत्पादक के परीक्ष 
प्रमाण-पत्रों की शुद्धि जाचने के लिए उनकी कम से 

कम पांच परषणों के बीच एक बार प्रति -जांस की जाएगी । 
( ग ) आने वाले परेषणों की , सांख्यिकीय नमूना योजना के 
लिए, क्रय विनिर्देशों से अनुरूपता सुनिश्चित करने 

के लिए निरीक्षण और परीक्षण किया जाएगा । 
( घ ) निरीक्षण तथा परीक्षण कर लिए जाने के पश्चात , अति 

युक्त परषण के उचित पृथककरण और उन्हें निपटाने 

के लिए व्यवस्थित पद्धति अपनायी जाएगी । 
( ड ) उपयुक्त नियंत्रणों के संबंध में पर्याप्त अभिलेख व्य 

स्थित रूप से रखे जाएंगे । 
( 2) प्रथम नियंत्रण : - ( क ) विनिर्माण के विविध प्रक्रमा 

के लिए विनिर्माताओं द्वारा विस्तृत प्रक्रम विनिर्देश 

मनाए जाएंगे । 
( ख ) प्रक्रम विनिर्देशों में दिए गए प्रक्रमों के नियंत्रण के 

लिए उपस्कर/ उपकरणों की पर्याप्त सुविधा होगी । 
( ग ) चिनिर्माण के प्रक्रम के दौरान प्रयोग किए गए नियं 

श्रणों की जांच को सलभ बनाने के लिए पर्याप्त अभिलेख 
रखे जाएंगे । 


( ग ) निरीक्षण : -निर्याप्त किए जाने वाले वाय -संपीडकों का 

निरीक्षण यह पंखने के लिए किया जाएगा कि उप-नियम 
( 2); में विनिर्दिष्ट नियंत्रणों का सुसंगर स्तरों पर 
संतोषजनक प्रयोग किया गया है और वाय - संपीडक 

मानक विनिर्देशों के अनुरूप है । 
4. निरीक्षण की प्रक्रिया : - (1) निर्यातकर्ता उस अभिकरण 
को , जिस की अधिसारिता में वह कारखाना पड़ता है जिससे 
निर्यात किया जाता है , लिखित सूचना देगा और ऐसी सूचना के 
साथ इस आशय का घोषणा-पत्र भी दंगा कि वायु-संपीहकों का 
परंषण नियम 3 में विनिर्विष्ट नियंत्रणों के अनुसार क्वालिटी 
नियंत्रण उपायों का प्रयोग करके विनिर्मित किया गया है था किया 
जा रहा है और परेषण इस प्रयोजन के लिए मान्यताप्राप्त विनिर्देशों 
की अपेक्षाओं के अनुरूप है । संविदात्मक अनुबंधों का पूरा विव 
रण, जब कभी भी अपेक्षित हो अभिकरण को सुलभ किया जाएगा । 
( 2) निर्यात कर्ता या विनिर्माता परषण पर लगाया जाने वाला 

पति - परिवहन पहचान -चिम्म भी अभिकरण को देगा । 
( 3) उप -नियम (1) के अधीन प्रत्येक सूचना और घोषणा-पत्र 

विनिर्माता के परिसर से परषण के भेजे जाने से कम से 
कम दस दिन पहले अभिकरण के कार्यालय में पहुंच 

जाना चाहिए । 
( 4) उप -नियम ( 1) और ( 2 ) के अधीन सूचना और घोषणा 

पत्र प्राप्त होने पर अभिकरण , अपना यह समाधान हो जान 
पर कि विनिर्माण के प्रक्रम के पौराम नियम 3 में विनि 
विष्ट पर्याप्त क्वालिटी नियंत्रणों का प्रयोग किया गया 
है , और परेषण की मानक विनिर्देशों में अनुरूपता 
सुनिश्चित करने के लिए और भी निरीक्षण या परीक्षण 
करने के पश्चात 10 दिन के भीतर इस आशय का प्रमाण 
पत्र पेगा कि परषण क्वालिटी मियंत्रण तथा निरीक्षण 
से संबंधित शता को पूरा करता है , और निर्यात- योग्य 
है । जब कभी भी अभिकरण वारा अपेक्षा की लाए,निर्यात 
कर्ता अपने कारखाने / गोदान में से पाय संपीडको के 
नमूने निःशुल्क वंगा । तथापि , आवश्यक निरीक्षण तथा 
परीक्षण करने के पश्चात अभिकरण दवारा नमुने लौटा 
दिए जाएंगे : 


( 3) उत्पाप नियंत्रण - ( क ) विनिर्माता के पास मानक 

विनिर्देश के अनुसार उत्पाद का परीक्षण करने की या 
तो स्वयं की परीक्षण की सुविधाएं होंगी या अन्यत्र जई 
ऐसे परीक्षण की सुविधा हो वहं तक उसकी पाच होगी । 
इसके लिए पर्याप्त अभिलेख रखे जाएंगे । 


( ख ) प्रत्येक संयोजन की निर्धारित निरीक्षण परीक्षण सूची के 

अनुसार जांच की जाएगी । 


परन्तु जथं अभिकरण का इस प्रकार समाधान नहीं होता है 
पहं यह उक्त पस दिन की अवधि के भीतर ऐसा प्रमाण -पत्र देने 
से इंकार कर देगा तथा एसी इंकारी के कारण देते हुए उस की 
संसूचना निर्यात कर्ता को देगा । 


( 4) माप - 

विमा संबंधी निर्यभण : - उत्पादन और निरीक्षण मी 
प्रयक्त मापकों और उपकरणों की कालिक जांच / अंश 
शोधन किया जाएगा और वृत्तपत्र के रूप में उसके 

अभिलेख रखे जाएंगे । 
(5 ) पकिंग नियंत्रण : - पकिंग विनिर्देश निर्धारित किया 

जाएगा । पैकेज अच्छी फिनिश वाले और अच्छी पर्श 
नीयता लिए होंगे । उनका निम्नलिखित परीक्षण भी 
किया जाएगा, अर्थात - 


6. निरीक्षण का स्थल : इन नियमों के अन्तर्गत प्रत्येक 
निरीक्षण विनिर्माता के परिसर पर किया जाएगा । 


6. निरीक्षण-फीस : - पात -पर्यनस -निःशुल्क -मूल्य के 1 प्रतिशत 
की दर से फीस , जो कि कम से कम एक सौ रुपय होगी. निर्यात 
कर्ता वारा अभिकरण को निरीक्षण फीस के रूप में दी जाएगी । 


( क ) लडकन परीक्षण : - पैकेज को एक और 8 मीटर आगे और 

6 मीटर पीछे की ओर या केवल एक ही ओर 12 मीटर 
तक लुढ़काया जाएगा और न तो स्वयं उसकी और न उस 
में रखी वस्त, की ही कोई हानि हो । 


7. अपील : - (i)नियम 4 के उप-नियम (4 ) के अधीन अभि 
करण द्वारा प्रमाण-पत्र देने से इंकार कर दिए जाने से व्यथित कोई 
व्यक्ति , उसके वारा ऐसी इंकारी संसूचना प्राप्त करने के 10 दिन 
के भीतर विशेषज्ञों के पैनल को अपील कर सकता है जिसमें कम 
से कम तीन व्यक्ति ऐसे होंगे जो केन्द्रीय सरकार दवारा इस प्रयो 
जनार्थ नियुक्त किए गए है । 
( 2 ) विशेषज्ञों के पैनल का अधिवेशन करने के लिए उसके 

तीम विशेषज्ञों से गणपूर्सि होगी । 
( 3) एसी अपील पर उक्त पैनल का विनिश्चय अंतिम होगी । 


( ख ) जाफ, आर परीक्षण :-- पैकेज पर अक्स्मास होने वाली 

साधारण बरसाती पौछार के परापर पानी की बौछार पांच 
मिनट तक की जाएगी और उसमें रखी वस्त, पर उसका 
कोई प्रभाष नहीं होना चाहिए । 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16. 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2159 


सारणी 
नियन्त्रण के स्तर 
( नियम 3 मे देखिए ) 


कम स० 


निरीक्षण /परीक्षण की विशिष्टियाँ 


अपेक्षाए 


नमूने का प्राकार 


लांट माकार 


2 


5 


प्रत्येक 


प्रत्येक 


Iबरी गया सामान और पटक 

प्रयोजन के लिए मान्यता प्राप्त 

मानक 
( क ) दृष्टिगत निरीक्षण ( कार्य-कौशल और परिसाधन विनिर्देशो के अनुसार 

सहित ) 
( ख ) साताएं सहित विमाए 
(i ) महत्वपूर्ण 

यथोक्त 
(ii ) अन्य 

यथोक्त 


प्रत्येक लॉट 


प्रत्येक 
अभिलिखित अन्वेषण के माधार 
पर निश्चित किया जाएगा 

यथोक्त 


प्रत्येक लॉट 


प्रत्येक 


प्रत्येक 


( ग ) कोई अन्य अपेक्षा 

यथोमत 
II विमिमित घटक और उप- संयोजन 
( क ) दृष्टिगत निरीक्षण ( कार्य-कौशल और परिसाधन इस प्रयोजन के लिए मान्यता 
सहित ) 

प्राप्त मानक विनिर्देशो के 

अनुसार 
( ख ) साह्यताएं महित विमाए 
( i ) महत्वपूर्ण 

यथोक्त 
( ii ) पम्प 

यथोक्त 
( ग ) कोई अन्य अपेक्षा 

यपोक्त 
III संयोजन 
( क ) कार्य -कौशल और परिमाधम 

यथोक्त 


प्रत्येक 
अभिलिखित मन्वेषण के प्राधार 
पर विनिश्चिय किया जाएगा 

यथोक्त 


प्रत्येक बैध 


प्रत्येक मैच 


प्रत्येक 


प्रत्येक 


( ख ) परीक्षण 


प्रत्येक 


प्रत्येक 


प्रत्येक 


प्रत्येक 


प्रत्येक 


प्रत्येक 


प्रत्येक 


प्रत्येक 


एक 


महीने में एक बार 


यथोक्त 


( i ) साधारण जालन परीक्षण 

यथोक्त 
(ii ) कार्य-परीक्षण 
( म ) क्षमता (निकासी ) 

यथोक्त 
( मा ) आपेक्षिक विद्युत -शक्ति खपत । 

( विद्युत चालित सपीडको की दशा । पूरे लोर पर 
मे ) 
प्रापेक्षिक ईधन खपत ( मम्य चालितो । यथोक्त 

की दशा मे ) 
( iii ) विशेषतापो का भवधारण 

यथोक्त 
प्रकार परीक्षण 
(i ) यान्त्रिक परीक्षण ( सहनशक्ति परीक्षण के यथोक्त 

सिवाय ) 
(ii ) बिना लोड से पूरे लोर तक विभिन्न लोडो पर यथोक्त 

विशेष विघुस- शक्ति की खपत 
( iii ) यन की प्रायतनी और समग्र कार्य क्षमता 

ययोक्त 
( iv ) स्नेहक तेल की खपत 

यथोक्त 
( v ) लोडिंग तथा मिना लोडिंग का यंत्र प्रिया यथीपत 

विधि परीक्षण 
( vi ) शीतक पानी का प्रवाह, यदि लागू हो , ताप यथोक्त 

मान मे वृद्धि सहित 
( vii ) सहन प्राक्ति परीक्षण 

यथोक्त 
IV परिरमक 
( क ) विद्युत -लेपन 
( 1 ) सम्जन 

यथोक्त 
( ii ) मोटाई 

यथोक्त 
( iii ) संक्षारण प्रतिरोध 

यथोपत 
( ख ) रंग-लेपन 
( i ) नग्नता तथा पासजन 

ययोफ्त 
( ii ) खरोष बढ़ता 

यथोक्स 
( ii ) सक्षारण प्रतिरोध 

यथोक्त 
( iv ) ताप प्रतिरोध 

यथोक्त 


यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 


यणोक्त 


यथोक्त 


है 


प्रत्येक बैच का उत्पादन 

यथोक्स 
ययोक्स 


एक 


एक 


प्रत्येक तैयार पोल 
पयोक्त 

यथोक्त 
प्रय किए गए रंग पा प्रत्येक 

परेषण 


एक 


V . पैकिंग 

( क ) लुढ़कन परीक्षा 
( ब ) जल फुहार परीक्षा 


यथोक्त 
यथोक्त 


1 पैकेज 
ययोक्त 


प्रत्येक परेषण 
प्रत्येक पिजान 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[ म० 6 ( 37 )/ 72-मि०नि० और नि०स०] 


31 GI / 73 - 5 


- 


13 . 


2160 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

(PART 11 – 
= - = - = 

- - -- - - - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

3 . Quality Control and Inspection ( 1 ) The quality of the 

air compressors sball be ensured by exercising the controls 
ORDER 

at different stages of manufacture specified in sub - rulo (2 ) 

together with the levels of control specified in the Tablo 
New Delhi, the 16th June , 1973 

annexed to these rules ; 
$ . O . 1691. — Whereas the Central Government is of the 
opinion that, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 

( 2 ) The controls at different stages of manufacture men 
6 of the Export ( Quality Control and Inspection ) Act, 1963 tioned in sub - rule ( 1) shall be the following controls , 
( 22 of 1963), it is necessary and expedient so to do for the namely S 
development of export trade of India that air compressors 
shall be subject to quality control and ingpection prior to (i) Brought out materlals and components control : 
export; 

(a ) Purchase specifications shall be laid down by the 
And whereas the Central Government has formulated tho 

manufacturer incorporating the properties of ma 
proposals specified below for the said purpose and has for 

terials or components used and the detailed dimen 
warded tho come to the Export Inspection Council , as re 

giong thereof with tolerances . 
quired by sub - rule (2 ) of rule 11 of the Export (Quality 
Control and Inspection ) Rules , 1964; 

( b ) The accepted consignments shall be either accom 

panied by a producer s test certificate corroborating 
Now , therefore, in pursuanco of the said şub -rule , tho 

iho requirement of the purchase specifications or 
Central Government hereby publishes the said proposals for 

in the absence of such test certificates, samples 
the information of the public likely to be affected thereby . 

from cach consignment shall be regularly tested to 
check up its conformity to the purchase specifica 

tions. The producer s test certificates shall be 
2 . Notice is hereby glven that any person desiring to for 

counter - checked at least once in five consignments 
ward any obections or suggestions with respect to the said 
proposals may forward the saine, within thirty days of the 

to verify the correctness . 
dato of publication of this order in the Official Gazette, to 

(c) The incoming consignments shall be inspected and 
the Export Inspection Council, “ World Trade Centre " , 

tested for ensuring conformity to purchase spccl 
14 / 1 - B , Ezra Street, 7th floor, Calcutta - 1 . 

fications against statistical sampling plan . 
PROPOSALS 

(d ) After the inspection and tests are carried out, sys 

tematic methods shall be adopted for proper segre 
( 1 ) To notify that air compressors shall be subject to 

gation and disposal of defectivos . 
quality control and inspection prior to export; 

( c ) Adequate records in respect of the above mentioned 
( 2 ) To specify the type of quality control and inspection 

controls shall be systematically maintained . 
in accordance with the draft Export of Air Compressors 
( Quality Control and Inspection ) Rules , 1973 , set out in 
the Annexure to this Order as the type of quality control 

( ii ) Process Control : 
and inspection which shall be applied to such air compres 
sors prior to export ; 

(a ) Detailed process specifications shall be laid down 

by the manufacturers for various processes of manu 
(3 ) To rocogniso the Indian or any other national standard 

turo . 
as the standard specification for air compressors; 

( b ) Equipment / instrumentation facilities shall be ade 
(4 ) To prohibit the export, in the course of international 

quate to control the processes as laid down in the 
trade of such air compressor unless the game is accompanied 

process specifications. 
by a certificate issued by any of the Export Inspection Agen 
cics established under section 7 of tho Export (Quality 

( c) Adequate records shall be maintained to enable the 
Control and Inspection ) Act, 1963 (22 of 1963) to the cffect 

verification of the controls exercised during the 
that the consignment of air compressors satisfied the condi 

process of manufacture . 
tions relating to its quality control and inspection and is 
export-worthy, 

( iil) Product Control : 

(a ) The manufacturer shall either have his own testing 
3 . In this order " air compressor " means a machine which 

facilities or shall have access to such testing faci 
draws in air from an initial near atmospheric pressure and 

lities existing elsewhere to test the product as per 
delivers it at higher pressure , but shall not include an ex 

the standard specification . Adequate records thero 
hauster or Vacuum pump. 

of shall be maintained . 

(b ) Each and every assembly shall be checked against 
ANNEXURE 

& laid down inspection check list. 
Draft rules proposed to be made under section 17 of 
the Export (Quality Control and Inspection ) Act . 

( iv ) Metrological Control : 
1963 ( 22 of 1963), 

Gauges and instruments used in the production and 
1. Short title and commencement. - ( 1 ) These rules may be 

inspection shall be periodically checked / calibrated 
called the Export of Air Compressors (Quality Control and 

and records shall be maintained in the form of 

history cards. 
Inspection ) Rules, 1973 . 
(2 ) They shall come into force on the . . . . . . . . . . . . 

(v ) Packing Control : 
2 . Definitions . In these rules, unless the context other 

A packing specification shall be laid down . The packages 
wise requires; 

shall be well finished and shall have good prosent 

ability . They shall also withstand the following 
( A ) " Act" means the Export (Quallty Control and Iny 

tests, namely : 
rection ) Act, 1963 (22 of 1963); 

( a ) Rolling test. The package shall be subject to 
(b ) " agency " means any one of the Export Inspection 

rolling on its sides either 6 metres forward and 
Agencies established by the Central Government at 

6 metres backward or 12 metres in one direction 
Cochin , Madras , Calcutta , Bombay or Delhi under 

only and shall not cause any damage to either itself 
section 7 of the Act; 

or its contents. 
(c ) " air compressor" means a machine which draws in 

(b ) Water spraying test . The package shall bo allowed 
air from an initial near atmospheric pressure and 

to be exposed against & water spray equivalent to 
delivers it at higher pressure but shall not include 

a normal gudden monsoon shower for five minutes 
an exhauster or vacuum pump. 

and the contents inside shall not be affected . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


S 


SEC . 3 ( 11 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2161 
- - - - - - - - 
(3 ) Inspection . The inspection of air compressors in certificate that the consignment satisfies the conditions relating 
tended for export shall be carried out with a view to seeing to quality control and inspection and is export -worthy. AS 
that the controls specified in sub -rule ( 2 ) have been exercised and when required by the agency , the exporter shall supply 
at the relevant levels satisfactorily and the air compressors free of charge samples of air compressors from his factory / 
conform to the standard specifications. 

godown. The samples shall, however , be returned by the 

agency after necessary inspection and testing i 
(4 ) Procedure of inspection ( 1) the exporter shall glvo Provided that where the agency is not so satisficd , it shall, 
Intimation in writing the agency under whose jurisdiction tho 

within the said period of ten days , refuse to issue such certi 
factory , from which it is intended to export, falls and submit ficate and communicate such refusal to the exporter along 
alongwith such intimation a declaration that the consignment 

with the reasons therefor , 
of air compressors has been or is being manufactured by 
exercising quality control measuros as per controls referred 

5 . Place of Inspection . — Every inspection under these rules 
to in rule 3 and that the consignment conforms to the re 

shall be carried out at the premises of the manufacturer . 
quirements of the specifications recognised for this purpose . 
Complete details of contractual stipulations be made available 

6 . Inspection fee . — A fec at the rate of 1 per cent of 
to the agency whenever requiicd . 

f.ob . Vallio subject to a minimum of rupees one hundred 
( 2 ) The exporter or manufacturer shall also furnish to the 

shall be paid by the oxporter to the agency as inspection 
agency tho shipping marks of idontification applied on the 

fee . 
consignment. 

7 . Appeal. - ( 1) Any person aggrieved by the refusal of 
(3 ) Every intimation and declaration under sub -rulo ( 1) the agency to issue a certificate under sub - rule ( 4 ) of rulo 
shall reach the offico of the agency not less than ten days 4 , may within ten days of the receipt of the communication 
prior to the despatch of the consignments from tho manu of such refusal by him , prefer an appeal to & panel of 
facturer s premises. 

experts consisting of not less than three persons appointed 
(4 ) On receipt of the Intimation and declaration under 

for the purpose by the Central Government. 
sub - rules ( 1) and ( 2 ), the agency , on satisfying itself that (2 ) The quorum to constituto a meeting of the panel of 
during the process of manufacturc , adequate quality controls, experts shall be of its three experts. 
specificd in rulo 3 have been exercised and after further ins 
pection or testing to ensure conformity of the consignment (3 ) The decision of the said panel of experts on such 
to the standard specifications, shall , within ten days , issued appeul shall be final, 

TABLE 
Levels of Control 

(See rule 3 ) 

-- - - - - - - - 
S . No. Particulars of inspection /test 

Requirement Sample size 

Lot size 
- - - - - - - - - 

- - - 

5 
- - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - 
- - - 

- - 

- - 
[ Bought outmaterials & components . 

As per standard spe Fach 

Each 
(a ) Visual inspection (including workmanship and finish ) . cification recog 

nised for the pur 


posc 


(b ) Dunensions with tolerances 

(i) Critical . . . 
(ii) Others . . . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


- do 
- do 


Hach lot 


Lach 
To be fixed on the 

basis of recorded 
investigation 

- do 


. 


do 


Each lot 


(c) Any other requireincnt . . . . . 
II. Manufactured components and sub assembly 

( 1) Visulinportion (including workmanship and finish ) , 


. 


Each 


Iach 


As per standard 
specilications re 
cognised for the 
purposc 


(b ) Dimensions with tolerances 

(1) Critical 
(ii) Others 


-do 


Each batch 


- do 


Each 
To be fixed on the 
basis of recorded 
investigation 
-do 


Each batch 


Each 


Each 


Each 


Each 


kach 


Each 
Tach 


Each 


(c) Any other requirement . . . . . . . -do 
IIS. Assembly 
(a) Workmanship and finish 

-do 
(b ) Tests 
(1) General running lest , 

- do 
( ii) Performance test 
(a ) Capacity (output) 

-do 
(b ) Specific power consumption in the case of clectri- At full load 

cally driven compressors ), specific fuel consump 

tion . (with other drives ) , 
( 111 ) Ditermination of the characteristics . . 

-do 
Type Test 
(i) Mechanical test ( exccpt endurance test ) 

- do 
(ii) Specific power consumption at various loads from no load 
to full load . 

-do 
( iii ) Voluinetric and overall efficiency of inachanism 

-do 
(iv ) Lubricating oil consumption , 

- do 
(v ) Testing of londing and unloading mechnisın . 

-do 
(vi) Flow of cooling water , if applicablo , with rise in temperaturo -do 
(vii) Endurance test 

- - . . 


Fach 


Cach 


One No. 


Once in a mooth 


One No. 
One No. 
One No. 
One No. 
On No . 
Ono No. 


-do 
- do 

-do 
Once in a month 

- co 
Oncc in & year 


-do 


- 


- 


A 


. 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


2162 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[PART 11 — 


- - - .. . . . 


- 


- 


2 


. . . . 


. . . . 


. 


•do 


One No. 


IV . Preservation 
( a) Electroplating 

O Adhesion 
( ii ) Thickness 

( iii) Corrosion resistance 
(b ) Painting 

(i) Flexibility & adhesion 
(ii) Scratch hardness . 
(iii) Corrosion resistance 
(iv) Resistance to hoat . 


Each batch s pro 
duction 

- do 
___ - do 


One No . 
One No . 


.. 


- do 


•... 


- do 
•do 
- do 


One No. 
One No . 
One No. 
One No . 


Each mix prepared 

- do 

- do 
Each consignment of 

paint purchasod 


. 


•do 


V . Packing 

(E ) Rolling trst , 


: 


: 


( b) Watcr spraying test 


: 


. 


. 


. 


. 


स 


1 package 

-do 


Each consigpment, 
Each design. 


No . 6(57)/ 72 - El & EP. 


नई दिल्ली, 16 जून , 1973 

आदेश 


And whereas objections and suggestions were invited till 
the 2nd September , 1970, from all persons likely to be affected 
thereby; 

And whereas copios of the said Gazetto were made avail 
able to the public on the 3rd July, 1970 ; 

And whereas tho objections and suggestions received from 
the public on the said draft have been considered by the 
Central Government; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 6 of the Export ( Quality Control and Inspection) 

Act, 1963 ( 22 of 1963), the Central Government , after con 
sulting the Export Inspection Council , being of opinion that 
It is necessary and expedient so to do for the development 
of the export trade of India , hereby makes the following 
amendment to the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Commerce, No . S . O . 1197, dated the 15th 
April , 1966, namely : 
In tho Schedulo to the said notification , for ,Serial No. 10 

and the entry relating thereto , the following shall 

be substituted , namely : 
" 10 . Sodium Citrato (non -pharmacopoeial)." . 

[ No. 6 (3 )/ 73- EI & EP ] 


का . आ .1892. - यत : भारत के निर्यात व्यापार के विकास के 
लिए भारत सरकार के वाणिज्य मंत्रालय की कानिक रसायनों से 
संबंधित अधिसूचना सं , का . आ . 1197, तारीख 15 अप्रैल , 1960 
में संशोधन करने के लिए कतिपय प्रस्ताव निर्थात (क्यालिटी 
नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण ) नियम , 1984 के नियम 11 के उप-नियम 
( 2) द्वारा यथापक्षित भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व विदेश व्यापार मंत्रा 
लय की अधिसूचना सं . का . आ . 2381, सा . 3 जुलाई , 1970 के 
अधीन भारत के राजपत्र , असाधारण , भाग 2, खण्ड 3, उपखंड ( 2), 
सारीख 3 जुलाई , 1970 के पृष्ठ 1045 पर प्रकाशित किए गए थे, 
___ और यतः उससे संभाव्यसः प्रभावित होने वाले सभी व्यक्तियों 
से 2 सितम्बर, 1970 तक आक्षेप और सुझाव मांगे गए थे । 

और थतः उक्त राजपत्र की प्रतियां जनता को 3 अलाई , 1970 
को उपलब्ध करा दी गई थी । 
___ और थतः उक्त प्रारूप पर जनता से प्राप्त आक्षेपों और सुझावों 
पर केन्द्रीय सरकार इवाय विचार कर लिया गया हो , 
___ अब, अतः, निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण ) अधि . 
नियम , 1983 (1963 का 22 ) की धारा 8 वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार, निर्यात निरीक्षण परिषद् से 
परामर्श करने के पश्चात , यह राय होने पर कि भारत के निर्यात 
व्यापार के विकास के लिए ऐसा करना आवश्यक और समीचीन है , 
भारत सरकार के वाणिज्य मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं . 1197 , ता . 
15 अप्रैल, 1966 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है , अर्थात् : - - 

उक्त अधिसूचना की अनुसूची में क्रम सं . 10 तथ तत्संबंधित 
प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित रखा जाएगा, अर्थात् : 
"10 सोडियम साइट्रेट ( अ -भैषजीय ) " । 

[ सं . 6 (3 ) / 73 -नि . नि , और नि . सं ] 


फा . आ . 1893. –निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण ) 
अधिनियम , 1963 (1983 का 22 ) की धारा 17 धारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार , कानिक रसायनों 
का निर्यात (निरीक्षण ) नियम , 1968 में और संशोधन करने के 
लिए निम्नलिखित नियम बनाती है अर्थात : 
___ 1. इन नियमों का नाम कानिफ रसायनों का निर्यात (निरी 
क्षण ) वितीय संशोधन नियम, 1973 है । 

2. कानिक रसायनों का निर्यात (निरीक्षण ) नियम , 1986 
की अनुसूची में क्रम सं . 10 और तत्संबंधित प्रविष्ट के स्थान पर 
निम्नलिखित रखा जाएगा, अर्थात : 
"10-सोडिायम साइट्रेट ( अ- भैषजीय ) " 

[ सं . 8 (3 ) / 73 -नि . नि . औरीन . सं .] 


ORDER 


S. O . 1692. - Whercas for the development of export trade 
of India cortain proposals for amending the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce, 

No . S. O . 1197 , dated the 15th April, 1966, regarding Organic 
Chemicals were published as required by sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 
11 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection ) Rules, 
1964, at page 1045 of the Gazette of India , Extraordinary, 
Part II -Section 3 - - Sub-section ( ii ) , dated the 3rd July, 1970 , 
under the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Foreign Trade , No . S. O . 2361, dated the 
3rd July, 19703 


S . O . 1693. - In cxercise of the powers conferred by section 
17 of the Export ( Quality Control and Inspection ) Act , 1963 
( 22 of 1963), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rulcs further to amend the Export of Organio 
Chemicals (Inspection ) Rules, 1966, namely :-- 

1. These rules may be called the Export of Organic 
Chemicals (Inspection) Second Amendment Rules, 1973. 

2 . In the Schedule to the Export of Organic Chemicals 
(Inspection ) Rules , 1966 , for Serial No . 10 and the entry 
relating thereto , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" 10 . Sodium Citrate ( non- pharmacopoeial), " 

INo. 6 (3)/ 73- EI & EP ] 


SEC. 3 ( i ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2163 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


का . आ . 1694.---यत: निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरी 
क्षण ) अधिनियम , 1963 (1963 का 22) की धारा 7 द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार, भारत सरकार के 
वाणिज्य मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं . का , आ . 480, सा . 9 फरवरी, 
1986 में निम्नलिखित और संशोधन करती है , अर्थास : -- 


4. श्री पार० सी० काजी, 

में इस्टर्न सीरेमिक्स लि० , 
मुम्बई 


उक्त अधिसूचना की अनुसूची 2 में , कम सं . 10 और तस्स 
पंधित प्रविष्ट्रि के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित रखा जाएगा, अर्थात : 
" 10. सोडियम साइट्रेट ( अ-भषजीय ) " 

[ सं . 6( 3) / 73 नि . और नि . सं . ] 


5. उप-निदेशक , पदेन , नेशनल टेस्ट 

हाउस, गोतम बिलिंडग, पकारिया 
बीडी पार रोड , मुम्बई-15 । 


6. उप-निदेशक ( केमिफ्ल ) पवेन, 

लघु उद्योग सेवा संस्थान , 
साकीनेक , कुर्ला अंधेरी रोड, 
मुम्बई- 70 


S . O . 1694. — In cxercise of the powers conferred by section 
7 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspoction ) Act , 1963 
( 22 of 1963 ) , the Central Government hereby makes tho 
following further amendment in the notification of tho 
Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce , No . S . O 
480, dated the 9th February , 1966 , namely : 


In the said notification, In Schedule II , for Serial No . 10 

and the entry relating thereto , the following shall 

bo substituted , namely :- -- 
" 10 . Sodlum Citrato (non -pharmucopocial).". 

[ No. 6 ( 3 )/ 73 - EI & EP] 


7. संयुक्ल निदेशक , पवेन, भारत 

की निर्यात निरीक्षण परिषद , 
प्रादेशिक कार्यलय , अमन चेम्बर्स , 
चौथी मंजिल , 113, एम . कर्वे 
रोड , मुम्बई- 3 - - संयोजक 


2. निर्यात निरीक्षण अभिकरण 1. डा० एस० सेन , सेन्ट्रल ग्लास 
कलकत्ता 

एंड सोरेमिक रिसर्च इंस्टीट्यूट , 
यादवपुर, कलकत्ता - - 32 अध्यक्ष 


का० प्रा० 169 5. - मृत्तिका उत्पाद निर्याप्त (निरीक्षण ) नियम , 1969 
के नियम 7 के अनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार, भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व 
विदेश व्यापार और सभरण मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० फा० प्रा० 
2600, ता० 27 जून , 1969 का अतिक्रमण करते हुए, नीचे दी गई 
सारणी के स्तम्भ ( 2) में वर्णित व्यक्तियों के उसके स्तम्भ ( 1 ) की 
तत्स्थानी प्रविष्टि में वणित निर्यात निरीक्षण अभिकरण के विनिश्चय 
के विरुद्ध उक्त नियम के अधीन अपीलो की सुनवाई के प्रयोजन के 
लिए विशेषज्ञो के पेनल के रुप में नियुक्त करती है । 


2 . श्री होशियार सिंह, मै० बंगाल 
___ पौट्रीज लि . 45, टांगरा रोड , 

कलकता-15 


परन्तु जहां उक्त पैनल में से कोई सदस्य किसी अपील की विषय 
वस्तु में कैयक्तिक रूप से हितबद्ध है वहां वह उस अपील से संमंधित 
कार्यवाहियों में भाग नहीं लेगा 

सारणी 


3 श्री ए० डी० दुपा , गवनमट 

इस्युलेटर फैक्टरी , रावी 

बिहार 
4. श्री एससे एन० सेठ, मै० जयश्री 

टेक्सटाइल एंड इंडस्ट्रीज लि . , 
पोरसिलेन इस्युलेटर फैक्टरी , 
पो० प्रा० रिशरा डिस्ट्रिक्ट-हुगली , 
पं० बंगाल . 


वह प्राधिकरण , जिसके विनि- व्यक्ति जिनसे विशेषज्ञों का यह पेनल 
श्षय के विरुद्ध अपील हो गठित होता है जिसको अपील हो 
सकती है । 

__ सकता है । 


... . 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- 


- - . 


. - . 


5. श्री बी० एन० बनर्जी, बिहार 

फायर ब्रिक्स एंड पोट्रीज लि , 
22, स्ट्रेण्ड रोड , कलकसा- 1 


- 


- 


- - 


- -- 


- - - 


- 


6. सहायक निदेशक ( भोतिकीय ) , 

पदेन , 
नेशनल टेस्ट हाऊस , जजेज कोर्ट रोड , 
अलीपुर, कलकत्ता- 27 


-- - - - - - - - 
1. निर्यात निरीक्षण अभिकरण 1. श्री प्रार० एम० मेहरा , 

मै । मुम्बई पोट्रीज एंड टाइल्स 
लि०, पाइप रोड, कुर्ला, पो० 

मा० नं . 7166, बम्बई- 70 अध्यक्ष 
2. श्री एम० के० गणपुले , मै० परशुराम 

पोट्री वर्क्स क० लि० , वाकनेर, मोर्वी, 

गुबरात । 
3. श्री के . एम० शर्मा, मै० एच० 

एंड पार० जानसन ( इंडिया ) प्रा . लि . 
नानभाय मेनसन, सर पी०मेहता रोड , 
मुम्बई- 1 


7. उप-निदेशक ( कैमिकल ), पवेन , 

भारत की नियात निरीक्षण परिषद 
14/ 1 बी , एजर। स्ट्रीट , ( सातवी 
मंजिल ),- - मसकत्ता - 1 सयोजक 


2164 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 /JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


[ PART II - - 


3. निर्यात निरीक्षण अभिकरण 1. श्री वी० उल्लाल , म० ई० माई० 
मद्रास तथा कोचीन डी० परी लि०, रानी पेट , मद्रास 

अध्यक्ष 


S. 0 .1695. — In pursuance of rule 7 of tho Export of Ceramic 
Products (Inspection) Rules, 1969 , the Central Government 
in supersession of tho Notification of the Government of India 
in tho late Ministry of Foreign Trade and Supply , No . $ . O . 
2600 dated 27th June, 1969, hereby appoints the persons men 
tioned in columa (2 ) of tho Table given below as panel of ex 
ports for the purpose of hearing appeals under the said rule , 
against the decision of the Export Inspection Agency , mention 
od in the corresponding entry in column (1 ) thercof : 

Provided that where a member of any of the said panel is 
personnally interseted in the subject matter of any appeal, to 
shall not take part in the proceedings relating to that appeal. 


- 


- - 


TABLE 

- - - - - - 
Authority against whose Persons constituting the ponel of 

decision appeal lios experts to which appeal lies . 


- - - 


- - 


2. श्री जे० के० फकीरसाब, म० मैसूर 

पोरसीलेन लि० , पो० बा० न० 1, साईस 

इंस्ट्रीट्यूट, अंगलोर-12 
3. श्री टी० वी० पुग्नुस, थामेशुहास, 
____ मुंदाकाव , चेंगापुर , केरल 
4. श्री वी० श्री निवासन , निवेशक , 

मै० डब्ल्यू एम० स्युलेटरस लि० 

पोकर , मद्रास 
5 . शाखा प्रबंधक , पदेन , स्टेट ट्रेडिंग 

कापोरेगन माफ इंडिया लि . 

23, मांउट रोड, मद्रास - 6 
6. उप-निदेशक (निर्यात संबंर्धन ), पवेम , 

पायात टथा निर्यात संयुक्त मुख्ब नियंत्रक 
का कार्यालय, मद्रास 


1 . Export Inspection 

Agency - Bombay 


7. उप-निदेशक , पदेम, निर्यात ,निरीक्षण 

अभिकरण -मद्रास , 123, माउंट रोड 
मद्रास - 6 


4. निर्यात निरीक्षण अभिकरण 1 श्री एस० एल० सोमानी, मैं० हिन्दुस्तान 
दिल्ली सेनीटरी वेयर ( प्रा० ) लि० हरियाणा 

अध्यक्ष 


2 . श्री बी० एन . भास्कर , मै० ईश्वर 

इंडस्ट्रीज , ईश्वर नगर 


1 . Shri R . M . Mehra , M / s. Bombay 

Potteries & Tiles Ltd ., Pipe Rond , 
Kurla , P. B. No . 7166, Bombay - 70 

Chairman 
2 . Shri M . K . Ganpule , M /s . Parshu 
ram Pottery Works. Co. Ltd . , 

Wankner , Morvi , Gujarat. 
3. Shri K . M . Sharma , M / s. H & R 

Johnson (India ) Pvt. Ltd., Nanb 
hoy Mansion, Sir P. Mehta Road 

Bombay- 1 . 
4 . Shri R . C . Kaji , M /s. Eastern Cera 

mics Ltd., Bombay. 
5. Deputy Director, Ex -officio, Natio 
__ nal Test House, Gautam Building, 

Zakaria BDR Road , Bombay - 15 . 
6 . Deputy Director ( Chem) , Ex - officio 

Small Industries Service Institute , 
Sakinakc , Kurla Andheri Road , 

Bombay- 70 . 
7. The Joint Director, Ex - officio, 

Export Instpection Council of 
India, Regional office , Aman Chan] 
bers , 4th floor, 113, M . Karve Road 
Bombay - 4 . 

Convener . 
1 . Dr. S . Sen . Central Glass & Cera 

mic Reserch Institute , Jadavpur , 
Calcutta - 32 . 

Chairman. 
2 . Shri Hoshiar Singh , M /s . Bengal 

Potteries Ltd ., 45, Tangra Road , 

Calcutta - 15 . 
3 . Shri A . D . Dua , The Government 

Insulator Factory , Ranchi, Bihar , 
4 . Shri S . N . Seth, M / s. Jaya Shree 

Textile & Industries Ltd ., Porce 
lain Insulator Factory , P. O . Rishra, 

Dist. Hooghly , W . Bengal. 
5. Shri B . N . Banerjee, Bihar Fire 

Bricks & Potteries Ltd. , 22 , Suand 

Road , Calcutta - 1 . 
6 . Assistant Director ( Physical), Ex 

officio , National Test House , Judges 

Court Road , Alipore , Calcutta - 27 . 
7 . Deputy Director (Chemicals), 

Ex -officio , Export Inspection Council 
of India , 14 / 1B , Ezra Street, 7th 
floor , Calcutta - 1 . 

Convener , 


2 . Export Inspection 

Agency - Calcutta 


3. श्री गलेन्द्र कुमार जय शिवभवन, कैम्पू 

बजरिया, लश्कर 


4 . विकास अधिकारी ( मृत्तिका-शिल्प ). 

पदेन महा-निदेशालय, तकनीकी विकास , 
नई दिल्ली -11 


5. निदेशक , पदेन , लघु उद्योग सेवा 

संस्थान , नई दिल्ली - 20 


6 . श्री राम बनान, प्रधान , विद्युत विभाग , 

भारतीय प्रोद्योगिकी संस्थान, हौजखास , 
नई दिल्ली 


7. संयुक्त निदेशक पवेन, निर्यात निरीक्षण 

अभिकरण , दिल्ली 13/ 7, पश्चिमी 
विस्तार क्षेत्र , भार्य समाज रोड , करोल 
बाग नई दिल्ली- 5 संयोजक 


3. Export Inspection 

Agency - Madras & 
Cochin , 


1 . Shri B. Ullal, M / s . E .I. D . Pairy 
Ltd ., Ranipct, Madras. 

____ Chairman. 
2. Shri J. K . Fakirsab, M /s. Mysore 

Porcelains Ltd., Post Box No. 
Science Institute, Bangalore-12 . 


2. पैनल की गणपूति तीन होगी । 


[ सं० 1 ( 27 )/ 71 -ई०पाई०ए०ई०पी०] 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2165 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - - - -- - - - - 


-- - - - - 


- - - - - 


- - - 


- - 


2 


2. श्री पार० एम० पटेन , 

मै० मोर इन्डस्ट्रीज लिमिटेड , 
मर विट्ठलवास पेम्बर्स , 16, अपोलो 
स्ट्रीट, पोर्ट , मुम्बई - 1 
3. श्री ए. पार० चौहान , 
मै० नेशनल लेदर , बलोथ मैन्युफैक्चरिंग 
कं० रामकृपा बिल्डिग , दूसरी मंजिल , 

23 पारेख स्ट्रीट , मुम्बई 4 
4. श्री पार० एम० सवेरी , 
भै० धर्मपुर लैवर क्लोथ फं० लि . , 
10, चौपाटी सी फेस , 


मुम्बई- 7 


3 . Shri T . V . Punnoose , Thazhenshu 

House , Mundancavu, Chengannur , 

Kerala. 
4 . Shri V . Srinivasan , Director, M / 8. 
___ w . s. Insulators Ltd., Porur, Madras. 
5. The Branch Manager, Ex - officio . 

Stato Trading Corpn , of India Lid . 

23 , Mount Road , Madras - 6 . 
6 . Deputy Director ( Export Promo 

tion ), Ex -officio , Office of the Jt . 
Chief Controller of Imports & 

Exports, Madras . 
7. Deputy Director , Ex - officio , Export 

Inspection Agency - Madras, 123 , 
Mount Road , Madras- 6 . 

Convener . 
4 . Export Inspection 1 . Shri H . L . Somani, M / s. Hindustan 
Agency - Delhi. 

Sanitary Ware ( Pvt. ) Ltd., Baha 
durgarh , Rohtak , Haryana , 

Chairman , 
2. Shri B . N , Bhaskar, M /s. Ishwar 

Industries, Ishwarnagar . 
3 . Shri Sailednra Kumar, Jai Shiy 

Bhavan, Campoo Bajalia , Lashkar , 

Gwalior ( MP). 
4 . Development Officer (Ceramics), 

Ex -officio Directorate General, 
Techdical Development, New Delhi . 

11 . 
5 . Director , Ex - officio , Small In 

dustries Service Institute, , New 

Delhi - 20 . 
6 . Shri Rama Batran, Head , Electri 

cal Deptt. Indian Institute of 
Technology, Haus Khas, New 

Delhi . 
7 . Joint Director , Ex- officio , Export 

Inspection Agency -Delhi, 13 / 37 , 
Western Extn. Area, Arya Samaj 
Road , Karolbagh, New Delhi- 5 . 

_ _ Convener. 
2. The quorum of the panel shall be three. 

No. 1( 27)/ 71 - EI & EP ] 
का० प्रा० 1696 ----विनयल फिल्म और पदर निर्यात (निरीक्षण ) 
नियम , 1969 के नियम 7 के प्रमु मरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार भारत सरकार 
के भूतपूर्व विदेश व्यापार और सम्भरण मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० 
का०मा० 1522, ता० 26 अप्रैल , 1969 का अतिक्रमण करते हुए , 
नीचे दी गई मारणी के स्तम्भ ( 2 ) में पर्णित व्यक्तियों को उसके 
स्तम्भ ( 1 ) की तस्स्थानी प्रविष्टि में वर्णित निर्यात निरीक्षण अभिकरण 
के विनिश्चय के विरुद्ध उक्त नियम के अधीन अपीलों की सुनवाई के 
प्रयोजन के लिए विशेषज्ञों के पैनल रुप में नियक्त करती है । 

परन्तु जहाँ उक्न पैनल मे से कोई सदस्य किसी अपील की विषय 
वस्तु में वैयक्तिक रूप से हिप्तबद्ध है वहाँ वह उस अपील से सम्बन्धित 
कार्य-वाहियो में भाग नहीं लेगा । 

सारणी 


5. उप-निदेशक , पदेन , 

नेशनल टैस्ट हाऊम , भारत सरकार , 

मुम्बई-15 
6 . संयुक्त निदेशक (निर्यात संवर्धन), पदेन, 

पायात तथा निर्यात के संयुक्त मुख्य 
नियंत्रक के कार्यालय , मुम्बई 
7. संयुक्त निदेशक , पदेम , 

भारस की निर्यात निरीक्षण परिषद् , 
प्रादेशिक कार्यालय , अमन चैम्बर्स , 

113, म० कर्वे रोड़, मुम्बई- 4 संयोजक 
2. निर्यात निरीक्षण अभिकरण 1. अध्यक्ष / उपाध्यक्ष , पदेन 
कलकत्ता 

प्लास्टिस तथा लिमोलियमस् निर्यात 
सवर्धन परिषद्, 14/ 1 वी०, एजरा स्ट्रीट , 
कलकत्ता - 1 

अध्यक्ष 
2. उप-निदेशक (निर्यात संवर्धन ) पवेन , 

पायात तथा निर्यात संयुक्त मुख्य 

नियंत्रक का कार्यालय , कलकत्ता । 
3. श्री एच० एम० नन्दक्यिोलपार, 

मै० इण्डिया लिनोलियमस् , 

14, राधा बाजार लेन , फलकत्ता - 1 
4. डा० ए० एन० शाह , 
नेशनल पारगनिक कैमिकल इंडस्ट्रीज 
लि . , 
हिमालय हाऊस , 38, पौरंगी , 

मलकत्ता -16 
5 . श्री एस० गांगुली , 

महाप्रबन्धक ( प्लास्टिक ) , 
म० अलवली एण्ड कैमिकल कार्पोरेशन 
माफ इण्डिया लि०, 
कलकत्ता शाखा, 18, स्टैण्ड रोड, 

कलकत्सा - 1 
6. उप -निदेशक ( कैमिकल ), पवेन , 
नेशनल टैस्ट हाऊस , भारत सरकार , 

जजेज कोर्ट रोड़, अलीपुर, कलकत्ता- 27 
7. उप-निदेशक ( कैमिकल ) , पदेन , 
भारत को निर्यात निरीक्षण परिषद , 
14/ 1 मी० , एजरा स्ट्रीट, 7वीं मंजिल , 
फलकत्ता - 1 

संयोजक 


2 


- - 


वह प्राधिकरण , जिमके विनिश्चय व्यक्ति जिनसे विषषज्ञों का वह पैनल 
के विरुख अपील हो सकती है । गठित होता है जिसकी अपील हो सकती है 
" - " " - - - - - - 

- - - 
1. निर्यात निरीक्षण अभिकरण , 1. अध्यक्ष / उपाध्यक्ष , पदेन , 
मुम्बई । 

प्लास्टिक तथा लिनोलियमस् निर्यात 

सम्बर्धन परिषद् , 68, तारदेव रोड , 
मुम्बई- 34 । 

अध्यक्ष 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


2166 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 /JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


[ PART Il - - 


-- - - - - 


- - - 


2 


2 


3. निर्यात निरीक्षण अभिकरण 1. प्रो० पी० बी० जनार्धन , 
मद्रास तथा कोचीन 

मद्राम यूनिवर्सिटी, ए० सी० कालेज क्षेत्र , 
गुईली, मद्रास- 25 

मध्यक्ष 
2. श्री के . श्रीनिवासन , 
मै० वर्मा इण्डस्ट्रीयलस् लि०, 
दोमलुर रोड़, डा . हिन्दुस्तान एयरक्राफ्ट , 
बंगलौर-17 


6 विकास अधिकारी ( इ०पी०६० ) , 

पदेन , 
महानिदेशक का कार्यालय , 
तकनीकी विकास इ०पी० इ० कक्ष , 
उद्योग भवन , नई दिल्ली- 11 
7. सयुक्त निदेशक , पदेन , 

निर्यात निरीक्षण अभिकरण - - दिल्ली , 
13/ 37, पश्चिमी विस्तार क्षेत्र, प्रार्य 
समाज रोड , 
नई दिल्ली - 5 

संयोजक 


2 . पैनल की गणपूर्ति तीन होगी । 

[ सं० 1 ( 27 )/ 71-ई०पाईएमई०पी०] 


3. श्री एम० पार्थसार्थी, निदेशक , 

मै० पोलीन फिल्म इण्डस्ट्रीज ( प्रा . ) 
लि०, मद्रास - 34 
4. श्री टी० विजय राघवन , 
विपणन प्रबन्धक , 
मै० ववीन इण्डिया लि . एम्बत्तूर 
इण्डस्ट्रीयल एस्टेट , मद्रास- 58 
5. उप-निवेशक (निर्यात संवर्धम ), पदेन , 
पायात तथा निर्यात संयुक्त मुख्य नियंत्रक 
का कार्यालय , 
मद्रास 


S . O . 1696 .. - In pursuance of rule 7 of the Export of Vinyl 
Film and Sheetings (Inspection) Rules , 1969 , the Central Go 
veraincnt in supersession of the Notification of the Government 
of India in the late Ministry of Foreign Trade and Supply, No . 
S . O . 1522 dated the 26th April, 1969, hereby appoints the persons 
mentioned in column (2 ) of the Table given below as panel of 
experts for the purpose of hearing appeals under the said rule 
against the decision of the Export Inspection Agency , mentioned 
in the corresponding entry in column ( 1 ) thereof ; 


6. शाखा प्रबन्धक , पदेन , 

स्टेट ट्रेडिंग कार्पोरेशन माफ इंडिया लि० , 
123, माउंट रोड़, मद्रास- 6 


Provided that where a member of any of the said panel is 
personally interested in the subject matter of any appeal, le 
shall not take part in the proceedings relating to that appeal, 


TABLE 


7. संयुक्त निदेशक , पदेन , 

भारत की निर्यात निरीक्षण परिषद् , 
प्रादेशिक कार्यालय , ममोहर बिल्डिंग , 
महात्मा गांधी रोड़, एर्नाकुलम् , 
कोचीन - 11 

संयोजक 


Authority against 

whoso decision 
appeal lics , 


Persons constituting the panel of 

experts to which appeal lies 


2 


1 . Export Inspection 

Agoncy -Bombay. 


1. Chairman / Vice -Chairman , Ex -officio , 

Plastics & Linoleums Export Pro 
motion Council, 68, Tardco Road, 
Bombay- 34 . 


अध्यक्ष 


Chairman. 
2 . Shri R . M . Patel, M / s. Bhor In 

dustries Ltd., Sir Vithaldas Cham 
bers , 16 Apollo Street Fort , 
Bombay- 1 . 


3 . Shri A . R . Chouhan, M / s. National 

Leather Cloth Mfg . Co ., Ram 
krupa Building , 2nd floor , 25 , 
Parekh Street, Bombay - 4 . 


4. निर्याप्त निरीक्षण अभिकरण 1. निदेशक , पदेन , 
दिल्ली 

लषु उद्योग सेवा संस्थान , 

प्रोखला, नई दिल्ली- 20 अध्यक्ष 
2. श्री भार० टी० पाम्पी , 

श्री राम इन्स्टीच्यूट फार इस्ट्रीयल 
रिसर्च, 

19, यूनिवर्सिटी रोड, दिल्ली- 7 
3. श्री पी० पी० मुखर्जी, 
मै० बाटा शू कं० प्रा० लि ., 
शाखा फैक्टरी. फरीदानाव , न्यू इण्डस्ट्रिपल 
टाऊन, फरीदाबाद, हरियाणा । 
4 . श्री एम० एस० मुथाना, उप-निदेशक , 
भारतीय ( प्रौद्योगिकी ) संस्थान , 
कानपुर 
5. श्री रमेश सी० बरार, 
महाप्रबन्धक ( मार० एण्ड डी० ), 
मै० न्यूकोम प्लास्टिकस् लि०, 
54, इण्डस्ट्रीयल एरिया , फरीदामाव 

- - 


4 . Shri R . M . Jhaverl , M / s. Dharm 

pur Lcather Cloth Co . Ltd ., 10 , 
Chowpatty Sea Face , Bombay - 7 . 


5 . Deputy Director , Ex - officio, Natio 

nal Test House , Govt. of India , 
Bombay- 15. 


6 . Joint Diroctor (Export Promo 

tion), Ex - officio , Office of the Joint 
Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports, Bombay . 


7 . Joint Director, Ex- officio Export 

Inspection Council of India , Re 
gional office, Aman Chambers 
113 , M . Karve Road, Bombay - 4 . 

Convener. 


- 


- - 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] 

- - - = - - - 


- - - - - 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 
- - - - -- - - - 

- - - - - 
( 2 ) 

( 2) 


2167 
- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- -- 


- - -- 


- - - 


- 


- - 
2 . Export Inspcution 

A11- y - Calcutta . 


1. Chairman / Vice - Chairman , Ex 

Plastics & Linoleums Export Pro 
inotion Council, 14 / 1B , Fira Strec ! 
Calculta - 1 . 


2 . Shri R . T , Thampy, Sri Rani linsti 

tute for Industrial Rescaich , 19 , 
University Road, Delhi- 7 . 


Chairman . 


3 . Shri P . P . Mukherjco , M /S , Bata 

Shoe Co . Pvt Ltd . , Branch Fac 
tory , Faridabad New Industrial 
Town), Faridabad , Haiyana . 


2 Deputy Director (Lxport Promo 

lion ), Ex - officio Office of tho Joint 
Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports , Calcutta 


4 . Dr. M . S . Muthana, Deputy Direc 

tor, Indian Institute of Tchno 
logy , Kanpur, 


3 . Shu H . M . Nandkeolyar , M / s . 

India Linoleums, 14 , Radha Bazar 
Lane , Calcutta - 1 . 


5 . Shri Ramesh C . Barar. Geroral 

Manager ( R & D ), M / s . Nuchem 
Plastics Ltd ., 54 , Industrial Arca . 
Faridabad. 


4 . Dr. A . N . Shah , National Organic 

Chemical Industries Lid ., Hima 
lays House , 38, Chowringhec , 
Calcutta - 16 . 


5 . Shri S . Ganguly , General Manager 

( Plastics ), M /s . Alkali & Chemi. 
cal Corpn . of India I td . , Calcutta 
Bianch , 18 , Strand Road, Calcutta - , 


6 . Development Offcci (FPE ), Ex 

officio Office of the Directoral 
General, Technical Development , 
EPL Coll , Udyog Bhavan , New 
Delhi- il . 


6 . Deputy Director (Chemicals ) , Ex 

officio National Test House , Govt, 
of India , Judges, Court Road , 
Alipore , Calcutta -27. 


7 . Joint Director, Ex - officio Fxport 

Inspection Agency - Delhi, 13 / 37 , 
Western Extn . Arca , Arya Samaj 
Road , New Delhi- 5 . 

Convencr . 


7 . Deputy Director (Chemicals ), Fx 

officio Export Inspection Council 
of India , 14 / 1B , Ezra Street, 7th 
Hoor, Calcuita - i . 

Convener. 


2 . The quorum of the panel shall bc three. 


No. 1(27)/71-E1& EP . 


3 Export Inspection 

Agency -Madras & 
Cochin . 


| Proof. P . B . Janardhan , University 

of Madras , A . C . College Campus, 
Guindy, Madras - 25 . 


शवधि -पत्र 


Chairman . 


2 . Shri K . Siinivasan , M / s. Varma 

Industrials Lid ., Donilur Road 
P . O . Hindustan Aircraft, Banga , 
lore - 17 . 


T. 31. 1697 . — 177 7 977 99TOT 2 que 3 JTTHOE ( 2) 
falin 28 374472, 1972 * T TATT AFT 17 ore 
FEET ATT HIT BY T. 2T. 3330 11 28 
3170 , 1972 FL tafafura Huert felt gratuit, rrit 


3 . Shri M . Parthasarathy , Directoi . 

M /s. Polyene Film Industries ( P ) 
Ltd ., Madras - 34 . 


4 . Shri T . Vijaya Raghavan , Maiket 

ing Manager , M /s . Waviy India 
Ltd ., Ambattur Industrial Estate , 
Madras- 58 . 


" सुखाई मछली तथा मरली उत्पाद का निर्यात (निरीक्षण ) 

TT4 , 1970 4 BIT 7 “ g 37 ( TTT ) 
PUF , 1970 " 

के. एल माथर, अपर सचिव 
[ F . 6 (19 ) / 713 , ents . 4 .] 


5 . Deputy Director ( Export Promo 

tion ), Fx - officio Office of the Joint 
Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports, Madras. 


CORRIGENDUM 


6 . Branch Manager, Ex-officio State 

Trading Corp . of India Ltd ,, 
123 , Mount Road , Madras - 6 . 


7. Joint Director , Ex - officio , Export 

Inspection Council of India , Regio 
nal office , Manoliar Building , 
Mahatma Gandhi Road , Croa 
kulain , Cochin - 11 . 

Convoner . 


S .O . 1697. - In the order of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Foreign Trade No. S . O . 3339 dated the 28th 
October, 1972 published in Part II — Section 3 — Sub -Section 
(ii) of the Gazette of India dated the 28th October 1972 , the 
following amendment shall be made, namely : 


4 . Export Inspection 

Agency - Delhi, 


1 . Director , Ex - officio Small Indus 

tries Service Institute, Okhla , New 
Delhi- 20 . 

Chairinan . 
- - - - - - - - - 


For “ the Export of Dried Fish and Fish Products ( Ins 

pection ) Rules , 1970 " read " Dried Fish (Inspection ) 
Rules, 1970 " . 

[No. 6 ( 19 ) /71- EI& EP ] 
K . L . MATHUR , Under Secy. 


-- 


- - 


— 


— 


31 GI/73 - 6 - - - - - 


2168 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[ PART II 


... - -- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


( प्रौद्योगिक विकास , विज्ञान तथा प्रायोगिको मवालय ) 


( भारतीय मामक संस्था ) 


नई दिल्ली , 30 मई, 1973 


का० प्रा० 1698. - - समय-समय , पर संशोधिन भारतीय मानक संस्था (प्रमाणन चिन्ह ) विनियम 1955 के विनियम 3 के उपविनियम ( 2 ) और 
( 3 ) के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था द्वारा अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि नीचे अनुसूची में जिस भारतीय मानक का ब्यौरा दिया गया है वहनिर्धारित किया 
गया है : 


अनुसूची 


संक्षिप्त विवरण 


क्रम निर्धारित भारतीय मानक को पवसंख्या और 
संख्या शीर्षक 


नये भारतीय मानक द्वारा रह हुए भारतीय मानक की 

पवसंख्या और शीर्षक 


1 IS : 560 - 1969 बीएचसी, तकनीकी और 

परिष्कृत की विशिष्टि 
( दूसरा पुनरीक्षण ) 


IS : 560 - 1961 बीएचसी , तकनीकी की विशिष्टि 

( पुनरीक्षित ) 


इस मानक में बीएचसी, तकनीकी और परिष्कृत 
की अपेक्षाए और परीक्षण पद्धतियों की गई है 
( मूल्य र0 7 . 00 ) 


- - - 


* भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन मिहन ) योजना कार्यों के लिए IS : 560 - 1981 30 अप्रैल, 1974 
तक IS : 560- 1989 के साथ साथ -लागू रहेगा । 


इस भारतीय मानक की प्रतियाँ भारतीय मानक संस्था , मानक भवन , 9 - बहादुरशाह जफर मार्ग, मई दिल्ली - 1 और इसके शाखा कार्यालयों महमवा 
माद, बंगलौर , बम्बई, कलकत्ता , हैदराबाद, कानपुर, और मम्रास से प्राप्त की जा सकती है । 


[ सं० सी० एम० डी०/ 13: 2] 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 


INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION 


Now Delhi , the 30 May , 1973 


s . O . 1698 . - In pursuance of sub -regulations ( 2) and (3) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Marks) 
Rogulations, 1955 , as amended from time to time, the Indian Standards Institution heroby notiflog that the Indian Standard , particulars of 
which is inentioned in the Schedule given hereafter, has beon establised . 


SCHEDULE 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


------- 


- 


- --- - - - 
Brief Particulars 


Sl, 
No . 


No . and Title of the Indian Standard 

Established 


No . and Title of the Indian Standard if any , 
superseded by the new Indian Standard 


- 


- - - 


- - 


1 . 


IS :560 - 1969 Specification for BHC , tech - * IS :560- 1961 Specification for BHC tech - 

nical and refinod ( second revlslon ) nical (revised ) 


This standard prescribes tho requirements 
and the mothods of test for BHC , techni 
cal and refined ( Price Rs. 7 . 00 ) 


* For purposos of ISI Certification Marks 
Scheme ; IS:560- 1969 shall run con 
currently with IS : 560 - 1969 up to 30 April 
1974 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


. 


. r- . 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


Copios of this Indian Standard are available for sale with the Indian Standards Institution , Manak Bhavan , 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar 
Marg , New Delhi-1 and also its Branch Offices at Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Bombay, Calcutta, Hyderabad , Kanpur and Madras. 


INo . CMD/13: 21 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2169 


- 


- - - - - 


का० प्रा० 1699.--- समय समय पर संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था (प्रमाणन पिहन ) विनियम 1955 के विनियम 4 के अनुसार भारतीय मामक 
संस्था द्वारा अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि उक्त विनियम 3 के उपविनियम ( 1 ) के अनुसार प्राप्त अधिकार के अधीन यहां अनुसूची में दिए भारतीय मानकों 
के संशोधन जारी किए गए है: . 

मनुसूची 


- - - 


संशोधन का सक्षिप्त विवरण 


क्रम संशोधित भारतीय मानकों की 
संख्या पदसंख्या 


संशोधन की संख्या 

और दिनांक 


सशोधन लागू होने की 
तिथि 


जिस राजपत्र में भारतीय 
मानक तैयार होने की 
सूचना छपी थी , उसकी 
संख्या और दिनांक 


-- - - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


( 1) 


( 2 ) 


( 5 ) 


एक नया बण्ड 4 . 2 . 1 जोड़ लीजिए । 


1 मई, 1972 


सं० 2 
मई 1972 


1. IS : 278 - 1969 रोक लगाने के एम प्रो० 639 दिनाफ 
लिए जस्ता चढ़े इस्पात के काटेदार 21 फरवरी , 1970 

तार की विशिष्टि ( दू . पुन ) 
2 IS . 489 - 1961 कांच के एम्पूल एप०प्रो० 635 दिनांक 
की विशिष्टि ( पुनरीक्षित ) 

3 मार्च, 1962 


स . 2 
जुलाई 1972 


ठंडे किए शुष्क दवा के टीको के लिए तनुकारफ 1 जुलाई, 1972 
एम्पूलों की अपेक्षाओं के शामिल करने हेतु 
कांच को निर्धारित करने वाली समिति ने यह 
संशोधन जारी करने का निश्चित किया है । 
इससे पूर्व किए गए संशोधन संख्या 1 और 2 
स्वयं ही ठंडे किए दया के टीको के लिए काच 
की नालियों और एम्पूलो ले मिर्धारण और 
मुद्रित हो जाने के तुरन्त पाव वापिस ले लिए 
जाएगे । 


स . 1 
जुलाई 1972 


खण्ड 2 . 1 . 2 के स्थान पर नया सण्ड जोड़ 1 जुलाई , 1972 

लीजिए । 


3 IS : 542- 1968 नारियल के तेल एस० प्रो० 4599 दिनांक 
की विशिष्ट ( दू पुन ) 

28 दिसम्बर, 1968 
4 IS : 5 43 - 1968 बिनौले के तेल एस० मो० 145 5 दिनाक 
की विशिष्ट ( दू पुन ) 

19 अप्रेल , 1969 


सं० 1 
जुलाई 1972 


खण्ड 2. 1 . 3 के स्थान पर नया खण्ड जोड़ 1 जुलाई, 1972 

लीजिए । 


5. IS : 5 44 - 1968 मूगफली के तेल एस० ग्रो0 368 विनाक 
की विशिष्टि ( दू पुन ) 

25 जनवरी 1969 


सं० 1 
जुलाई 1972 


6 IS . 457 - 1968 सीसम के तेल एस० प्रो० 4599 दिनाक 
की विशिष्ट ( दू . पुन ). 

28 दिसम्बर, 1968 


सं० 1 
जुलाई 1972 


( 1 ) खण्ड 2 . 1 . 2 के स्थान पर नया सण्ड । जुलाई , 1972 

जोड़ लीजिए । 
( 2 ) सारणी 1 का सशोधन कर दिया गया है । 1 जुलाई, 1972 
( 1 ) खण्ड 2 . 1 . 2 के स्थान पर नया बण्ड जोड़ 1 जुलाई, 1972 

लीजिए । 
( 2 ) नया खण्ड 4 . 5 जोड़ दिया गया है । 
( 3 ) एक पाद-टिप्पणी पृष्ट के अन्त में जोड़ वी 

गई है । 


खण्ड 4 2 के स्थान पर नया खण्स जोड़ लीजिए । 1 मई, 1972 


7. IS : 628--1963 साइकिल के पैडल एस०प्रो० 1760 दिनांक 
____ को जोड़ने की विशिष्टि ( पुनरीक्षिप्त ) 29 जून , 1963 
8 IS : 887 - 1968 पणुषों की वर्षी एम०प्रो० 4599 दिनांक 
की (विशिष्टि ( पह० पुन ) 

28 दिसम्बर, 1968 


स० 3 
मई 1972 

स . 1 
जुलाई 1972 


( पृष्ठ 4, सारणी 1, स्तम्भ 4, क्रम सख्या ( 6 ) 1 जुलाई, 1972 
के सम्मुख ) - () , 5 के स्थान पर 1 . 0 कर 
लीजिए 


खण्ड 5 . 1 , 1 के स्थान पर नए खण्ड जोड़ लीजिए 


। जुन, 1972 


9 IS . 1365 --1968 खांचवार शंकु - एस० प्रो० 3608 

स० 1 
खनित सिर वाले पोर खचिदार उभरे दिनाक 12 अक्टूबर, 1968 जून 1972 
शांकुखमित सिर वाले पेच ( श्याम 

16 से 20 मिमी तक ) की विशिष्टि 
10. IS : 1366- 1968 खाचदार चीज एस० मो० 360 8 दिनाफ स० 1 

नुमा सिर वाले पैच (व्याम 1 6 से 12 अक्टूबर , 1968 मई 1972 
20मिमी तक ) ( पह पुन ) 


1 मई , 1972 


( 1 ) खण्ड 5 . 1 . 1 के स्थान पर मया खण जोड़ 

लीजिए । 
( 2 ) पारणी 1 और 2 का संशोधन किया गया है । 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


un - 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- - - - - - - -- - -- - 


- 


- - 


2170 ___ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

[ PART II - -- 
- - - - - 

-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
( 1) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) 

( 5 ) 

- -- -- 
11 IS : 1459 - 1968 मिट्टी के तेल एम प्रो 2766 दिनांक स . 1 

सारणी 1 का सशोधन किया गया है 

1 जुलाई 1972 
____ की विशिष्टि ( पह . पुन ) 10 अगस्त 1968 जुलाई 1972 
12 IS 1482 - 1970 आटग मशीनो एम प्रो 1107 दिनांक सं० 1 ( 1 ) ( पृष्ठ 4, खण्ड 2 1 पंक्ति 2 मे ) पैमाना 1 अप्रैल 1972 

में लगने वाले मीटरी पैमानो की 20 मार्च 1971 अप्रैल 1972 अनुपात ! 25 को हटा दीजिए 
विशिष्टि ( पल् . पुन ) 

( 2 ) प्राकृप्ति 1 के अ-नर्गन नई सामग्री जोर लीजिए 
13 IS : 2026 - 1962 पावर दाग - एस प्रो 2698 दिनायः स० 6 ( 1 ) खण्ड 17 . 100 5, 17 137 3 और ए - 1 1 मई 1972 
फार्मरो की विशिष्टि 1 मितम्बर 1962 मई 1972 1 ( मी ) का सशोधन किया गया है । 

( 2 ) प्राकृति 22 के शीर्षक के स्थान पर नया 

शीर्षक जोड़ लीजिए । 
( 3 ) ( पृष्ट 42 ( पृष्ट 13 रिप्रिट ) आकृति 22 

( बी ) शीर्षक के नीचे की सामग्री - ) निम्न 
लिखित सामग्री को हटा दीजिए :- - 
Connection for trans 

fornic , - during test 
( 4 ) खण्ड 17 12 1 . 5 के नीचे एक नया 

पैराग्राप जोड़ लीजिए । 
( 5 ) एक नया खण्ड 4 2 1 जोड लीजिए । 
( 6 ) खण्ठ 17. 13 7 1 के अन्त में एक नया 

वाक्य मोड़ लीजिए । 
14 IS 2191 ( भाग 2 ) - 1966 एम प्रा 26 5 4 स० 02 ( 1 ) मुख पृष्ठ पर शीर्षक , पृष्ठ 1 और 2 के 1 जून 1972 
लकडी के गमतल कपाट ( सेल्यूलर 5 अगस्त 1967 जुन 1972 

स्थान पर नया शीर्षक जोर लीजिए । 
तथा भीतर रो रोल वाले कोर 

( 2 ) नर 2 1, 1 . 3 ( पुन क्रमाकित खण्ड 
टाइप ) भाग 2 अणु बोड वाले पैनेल 

___ 4 . 4 ) पोर 5 . 2 के स्थान पर नए खण्ड मोड़ 
की विशिष्टि ( पहला पुन ) 

लीजिए । 
( 3 ) (पृष्ठ 4, खण्ड 3 . 1 पक्ति 2 मे ) निम्नलिखिन 

शब्द and fibre hardboard को शब्द 
board और face panels के बीच मे 

जोड़ लीजिए । 
( 4 ) नया खण्ड 4 3 खण्ड + 2 3 के बाद जोड़ 

लीजिए और रदण्ड 1 3 को पुनक्रमाक 4 . 4 

कर लीजिए । 
15 IS • 2 3 () 3-- 19 6 3 क्षारकता के लिए एम श्री 176 (0 विनाक स । 

म मानक के निर्धारण से समन्धित काच विभागीय ! जून 1972 
कांच के वर्गीकरण की पति 29 जून 1963 जून 1972 समिति ने यह संशोधन तुरन्त अविनाशी परी 

क्षय पद्धति को ध्यान मे रखकर जारी करने का 
निप्रणय किया है । इस सम्बन्ध मे मानक मे दी 
गई वर्तमान पाउटर परीक्षण पद्धति जो काच 
की क्षारकता की किस्त की द्योतक है किसी 

भी काच के लिए प्रयाप्त है । 
16 IS : 3099 - 1965 सूक्ष्मदर्शी के एस प्री 2673 दिनांक स० 2 

खण्ड 3 . 7 के स्थान पर नया खण्ड जोड़ दिया 1 मई 1972 
लिए सलाइर और ऊपरी मिलिप 28 अगस्त 1965 मई 1972 गया है । 

की विशिष्टि 
17 IS 3413-- 1996 कामन कागज एस प्रो 520 दिनांक स . 1 

( 1 ) सारणी । का संशोधन किया गया है । 1 मई 1972 
के लिए आधार कागज की विशिष्ट्रि 10 फरवरी 1968 मई 1972 ( 2 ) खण्ड 1 1 के स्थान पर नया ख जोड 

लीजिए । 
( 3 ) खण्ड 4 . 2 ( एफ ) बाद एक नया मद ( जी ) 

जोड़ लीजिए । 
1 IS 3975 - 1967 कवच चढ़े के बन्न एस प्रो 3 3 36 दिनांक म० 3 ( 1 ) खण्ड 4 . 1 . 6 . 3 और मारणी 2 के स्थान 1 मई 1972 
के लिए मर इस्पात के सार, पत्तियो 23 सितम्बर 1967 मई 1972 

पर नए खण्ड और मारणी जाह लीजिए । 
और टेप की यिशिष्टि 

( 2 ) खण्ड 6 1, 9 . 2 1 और 9 . 2. 1 ( बी ) 

का मशाधन किया गया है । 
- - - - - - - 

- - -- 

- - - - - - 
- - - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- . 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


स11 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2171 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - 
19. IS . 4333 ( भाग 1 ) - 1967 एस प्रो 1719 दिनाक 

( 1 ) खण्ड 2 2 5 के स्थान पर मया खण्ड जोड़ 1 जुलाई 1972 
अनाजा के विश्लेषण श्री पद्धतियां ____ 18 मई 1968 जुलाई 1972 वीजिए । 
भाग 1 रिफरेकशन 

( 2 ) मुण्ड 5 3 का सशोधन किया गया है । 
20 IS · 4576 - 1968 द्रषित पेट्रो- एम ओ 276 6 दिनाक स० [ मारणी 1 के अन्तर्ग टिप्पणी 1 के स्थान पर नई 1 जुलाई 1972 
लियम गैसों की विशिष्ट 

10 अगस्त 1968 जुलाई 1972 ___ सारणी जोड़ दीजिए । 
21 IS . 52 2 5 - 1969 वर्षा मापी एस ओ 89 दिनाक स . 2 

खण्य 1 1 1 के नीचे एक नई टिप्पणी जोर दी 1 मई 1972 
प्रभिलेखी की विशिष्टि 

10 जनवरी 1970 मई 1972 
22. IS : 560 4 - 1 9 70 युनिर्वसल गियर एम प्रो 3544 दिनाक सा2 (1 ) बण्ड 3 1, 4 . 8 ( पुन क्रमाफिन 1 7 ) 1 मई 1972 

रहिन हस्त चालित पुलिग और 25 सितम्बर 1971 मई 1972 और सी । का सणोधन किया गया है । 
लिफ्टिंग की विशिष्टि 

( 2 ) खण्ड + 1 के स्थान पर नया खण्ड जोड़ लीजिए । 
( 3 ) म्वण्र 4 . 5 को हटा दीजिए और खण्ड 4 6 , 

4 7 और 4 . 8 को पुनझाक 1 . 5 ; 4 5 
और 4 7 कर लीजिए 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


इन भारतीय मानक की प्रतिया , भारतीय मानक सस्था, 9 बहादुरशाह जफर मार्ग , नई दिल्लो -- ] और इसकी शाखा कार्यालयों ( 1 ) 534 - सरदार बल्लभ भाई 
पटेल , बम्बई - 7 ( 2 ) 5 चौरगी एप्रोच, कलकत्सा - 13 ( 3 ) 5 1 - जनरल पैटर्स रोड , मद्राम - 3 ( 4 ) 117/ 4 1 2 वी पर्थोक्य नगर कानपुर ( 5 ) 5 - 9 - 101 / 2 
चिरागअली लेन, हैदराबाद-1 ( 6 ) माधना नूरमोहमद शेख मार्ग, खानपुर, अहमदाबाद - 1 और ( 7 ) एफ ब्लाक यनिट बिल्डिग नमिह राज स्वथायर बगलोर 
2 से प्राप्त की जा सकती है । 

[ सं० सी० एम० डी0 / 1 3. 5] 


s . o . 1699 . - In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Marks) Regulations, J955 . the Indian 
Standards Institution hereby notifies that amendment ( s) to the lodian Standard ( s) given in the schedulo hereto annexed have been issued 
under the powers conferred by the sub -regulation ( 1 ) of Regulation 3 of the said Regulations , 

SCHEDULE 


- - - 


Sl. 
No . 


No . and title of the Indian 

Standard amended 


from 


No . and Date of Gazette No. and Date of the 
Notification in which Amendment 
to establishment of 
the Indian Standard 
was notified 


Brief particulars of the Ajmend- Date 
ment 

which the 
Amendment 
shall have 
effect 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


( 2 ) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


15 ) 


( 6 ) 


S . O . 639 dated 21 Feb 

1970 


No . 2 May 1972 


- - - - - 
A new clause 4. 2. 1. has been 
added . 


1 May 1972 


( 1 ) 
1. IS : 278- 1969 Specification for 

galvanized steel barbed wire 
for ſencing 

( Second revision) 
2. 15 : 489 -1961 Specification for 

glass ampoules 
( revised ) 


S. 0 . 635 dated 3 Mar 

1962 


No. 2 Jul 1972 


With a view to incorporating the 1 Jul 1972 
requirements of diluent am 
poules needed for water for 
water for freeze driod vaccines , 
the Glassware Sectional 
Committee , responsible for 
tho preparation of this stan 
do nd decided to issue this 
amendment. It is also 
provided that Amend 
ments No. 1 and 2 shall stand 
automatically withdrawn us 
soon as the, Specification 
foi Glass Tubos and Am 
poulos foi Freeze Dricd 
Vaccines, now under prepara 
tion, is printed . 
Clause 2 . 1 . 2 . has been substitu - 1 Jul 1972 
lod by a new one 


1968 


3. IS : 542 -1968 Specification for S. O . 4599 dated 28 Dec No . 1 Jul 1972 

coconut oil 

(second revision ) 
4 . IS : 543 - 1968 Specification for S. 0 . 1455 dated 10 Apr No. 1 July 1972 
cotton seed oil 

1969 
(second revision ) 
5. IS : 544 -1968 Specification for S. O . 368 dated 25 Jan No.1 Jul 1972 
groundnut oil 

1969 
( second revision) 


Clause 2 . 1. 3 . has been substitu - 
ted by a new one 


1 Jul 1972 


6. 


No .1 Jul 1972 


Is: 547-1968 Specification for S . O . 4599 dated 28 Dec 
sesame oil 

1968 
( socond revision ) 


(i) Clause 2 . 1. 2 has taun 1 Jul 1972 
substituted by a new onc . 
(ii ) Table 1 has been 

amended 
( J ) Clause 2 . 1 . 2 las Feen Jul 1972 

substituted by a new one 
( ii ) New Clause 4 . 5 has 

been added 
( iii ) A foot - hote lras bcen 

added at the end of page 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2172 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[PART II — 


T 


IL 


ALL 


R - 


( 1 ) 


(2 ) 


(3) 


7 . 


IS :628 - 1963 Specification for S . O . 1760 dated 29 Jun No . 3 May 1972 
blcyclo podal assombly 1963 
(revised ) 


Clauso 4 . 2 has been substituted 
by a now ono 


1 May 1972 


8 . 


IS :887- 1968 Specification for S . O . 4599 datod 28 Dec No. 1 July 1972 
animal tallow 

1968 
( first revision ) 


[Page 4 , Table 1 , Col 4 , against 1 Jul 1972 

Sí No . (vi)] Substitute 1. 0 
for 0 . 5 


9 . 


Clauses 5. 1 .1 and 5 . 1. 2 have 

been substituted by new onos . 


June 1972 


IS : 1365 - 1968 Specification for S . O . 3608 dated 12 Oct No . 1 Jun 1972 

slotted countersunk head 1968 
and slotted raisod counter 
sunk hoad scrows ( diame 
ter range 1 .6 to 20 mm ) 
(second revision ) 


S . O . 3608 dated 12 Oct No. 1 May 1972 

1968 


1 May 1972 


10 . IS : 1366 - 1968 Specification 

for stotted cheese head 
scrows (diametor range 1 .6 
to 20 mm ) ( first revision ) 


(i) Clause 5 .1 . 1. has been 

substitutod by a new ono 
(ii) Tables 1 and 2 have 

been amended 


S. O . 2766 dated 10 Aug No.1 Jul 1972 

1968 


Tablo 1 has beon amended 


11 . IS :1459- 1968 Specification 

for kerosines 
( first revision ) 


1 Jul 1972 . 


1 Apr 1972 


12 . I$ : 1482- 1970 Specification S . O . 1107 datod 20 Mar No. 1 Apr 1972 

for metric scales for use with 1971 
drafting machines 
( Arst revision ) 


(1) (Page 4 , clause 2 . 1, line 

2 ) - Delote the scale ratio 

1 :25 . 
(ii) New matter has bocn 

under Fig . 1 


13 . IS :2026 - 1962 Specification 

for powor transformors 


S .O . 2698 dated 1 Sep No.6 May 1972 

1962 


(i) Clauses 17 . 10 . 5 , 17. 13 . 1 May 1972 

7 . 3 and A - 1 . 1 . ( c ) have 

boon amended 
(il) Caption of Fig . 22 has 

becn substituted a by 

пеw оло 
(iii) (Page 42 (page 43 of the 

Roprints) Fig . 22 (b ), 
matter bolow the cap 
tion ] Delete tho follow 
ing matter : 
Connoction for trans 
formers . . . . . . . . during 


test , 


( iv ) A new paragraph has 

been added under Clause 

17 .12 .4 . 5 . 
(v ) A new clause 4 . 2 . 1 has 

been added . 


( vi) A new scntance has been 

added at the end of 
clause 17 .13. 7 . 1 . 


14 . I $ :2191 ( Part II)- 1966 Speci- S . O , 2654 dated 5 Aug No. 2 June 1972 

fication for wooden flush 1967 
door shutters ( cellular 
and hollow core type ) 
Part II particle board faco 
panels 
( first revision ) 


(i) Title on first cover page , 1 June 1972 

pages 1 and 2 has been 

subtituted by a new one 
(ii) Clauses 2 . 1 , 4 . 3 (re -num 

berod clauso 4 . 4 ) and 
5 . 2 have been substitu 

tod by new ones 
(til) ( Pago 4 , clause 3. 1 , line 

2 ) -Add words and fibre 
hardboard botwccn the 
words board and face 


panels 


( iv ) New clause 4 . 3 has 

boon Added after 4 . 2 . 3 
and clause 4 . 3 re -nun 
bered as 4 . 4 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


2173 
- - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

- - - - S S - - - - 

- - 
2 

5 
- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - --- 
15. IS :2303- 1963 Method of S.O . 1760 dated 29 June No.1 June 1972 The Glassware Sectional Com 
grading glass for alkalinity 1963 

mittoo , rosponsible for the 
preparation of the standard , 
decided to issue this amend 
ment in view of the necessity 
felt for a quick , non -dostruc 
tive method of test which , 
though not so accurate as tho 
powder method prosontly given 
in the standard gives a quali 
tative indication of the alkali 
nity of glass which is sufll 
cient for cortain glasswaro . 


16 . I $ :3099 - 1965 Specification S . O . 2673 dated 28 Aug No. 2 May 1972 

for slides and cover slips for 1965 
microscopes 


Clause 3 .7 has been substituted 
by a now one 


1 May 1972 


17. IS :3413 -1966 Specification s.O . 520 dated 10 Feb No.1 May 1972 

for base papor for carbon 1968 
paper 


(i) Tablo 1 has been amen - 1 May 1972 

ded 
(ii) Clause 4 . 1 has been subs 

tituted by a new one 
(ili) New itom (s ) has been 

Addod after clause 
4 . 2 (f) 


1 May 1972 


18 . IS :3975 - 1957 Specification for s .o . 3336 dated 23 Sep No.3 May 1972 

mild steel wiros , strips and 1967 
tapes for armouring cables 


(i) Clauses 4 .1 , 6 . 3 and 

table 2 have been 
substituted by new ones 


( ii) Clausos 6 . 1 , 9. 2 . 1 and 

9 . 2 . 1 (b ) have been amen 
ded 


19 . IS : 4333 ( Part I) - 1967 Mo- S . O . 1719 dated 18 May No. 1 July 1972 

thods of analysis for food - 1968 
graing part I rofractions 


(i) Clauso 2 .2 .5 has been 

substituted by a new ono 


1 Jul 1972 


( ii) Clauso 5 .3 has been 

amended 


20 . IS :4576 - 1968 Specification 

for liquefiod portroloum 
gases 


S .O . 2766 dated 10 Aug No. 1 Jul 1972 

1968 


Note 1 undor Table 1 has been 

substituted by a new ono 


1 Jul 1972 


21. IS : 5225-1969 Spocification 

for raingaugo , non - rocord - 


s.o . 89 datod 10 Jan No.2 May 1972 

1970 


A noto has boon added under 1 May 1972 

clause 4 . 1 . 1 


ing 


22 . IS :5604- 1970 Specification 

for universal gearless hand 
operated pulling and lifting 
machines 


s.o . 3544 dated 25 Sep No.2 May 1972 

1971 


1 May 1972 


(1) Clauses 3 . 1 , 4 . 8 (re - 

numbered 4 .7 ) and C - 4 

have beon amended 
( 11 ) Clause 4 . 1 has becn 

substituted by a new one 


(iii) Clause 4 .5 has been 

deleted and clauses 4 .6 , 
4 . 7 and 4 ,8 rc -numbered 
as 4 . 5 , 4 ,6 and 4 . 7 res 
pectively . 


- 


- 


- 


Copies of these amendments are available with the Indian Standards Institution , Manak Bhavan , 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, 
Now Dolhi-1 and also its branch offices at (i) Sadhna Tulsivihar, Khanpur , Ahnicdabad - 1 ( 1) F Block , Unity . Bldg., Narasimharaja 
Squaro , Bangalore- 2 (itt) 5 Chowringhoo Approch , Calcutta - 13 ( lv ) 54 General Pattors Road ,Madras-2 (v) 117/418 B , Sarvodaya Nagar , 
Kanpur (vl) 5 -9-201/2 Chirag Ali Lane , Hyderabad -1, and (vii) 534 Sardar Vallabhbhai Patol Road , Bombay-7. 


[No . CMD /13:51 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


2174 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

[PART II - - 
- - - - - 

का० प्रा० 1700 — समय पगग पर संगोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिह ) विनियम 1955 के उपविनियम ( 1 ) के अनुसार 
भारतीय मानक संस्था द्वारा अधिसूचित किया जाता है कि नीमे अनुसूची में दिये गये पैतीस लाइ मेमों का नवीकरण माह नवम्बर 1972 में किया गया है - - 


अनुसूची 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - 


कम माया लागेम मस्या और तिथि वैधमा की अवधि से 


नक लाइमें मधारी का नाम और पता 


लाइसेम के अधीन वस्तु/ प्रक्रिया नामम्बन्धी 
पद नाम 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( 1 ) 


( 2) 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


-- - 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


1 सी० एम०/ एल - 3202 

1 - 11 - 1970 


( ३) ( 1) 

( 6 ) 
- - - - 
1 - 11 - 1972 31 - 10- 1973 साद् एंड कम्पनी , 233, बेलिलीयम रोड , जलकल कार्यो के लिये 300 मिमी० 

हावड़ा , कार्यालय 129/ 100 बेलि- साइज मक के स्लूम पाल्प 
लियम रोड , हायडा 

IS 780 --1969 
1 - 11-- 1972 31 - 10 - 1973 दि एल्यूमिनियम सम्ट्रीज लि ., सं० 1, पी० पी० सी० रोधित और पी . मो० 

ऋमिक फैक्टरी रोड , फुदरा , ( केरल सी० खोलवाले ठोम एल्यूमिनियम 
राज्य ) 

चालकों वाले 1100 पोलह और 
उतने तक रेटिंग के केशल - - 
IS 4288 - 1967 


2 मी० एम०/ एल०- 3 20.3 

1 - 11 - 1972 


1 - 11 - 1972 


31 - 10-- 1973 सेवरी पायरन एड स्टील फ०, 6-सेवरी सरचना हम्पात ( मानक किस्म ) 
क्रास रोड , बम्बई- 15 

IS • 226 - 1969 
संरचना इस्पात ( माधारण किस्म ) 

IS : 1977 - 1969 


1 -- 11 - 1972 


3 सी० एम०एल०- 3204 

1 -- 11 - 1972 
4. सी० एम० / एल - 3 205 

1 -- 11 - 1972 
5. सी० एम० /एल- 3 206 

1 - 11- 1972 


31 - 10 - 1973 


1 - 11 - 1972 


3 1-- 10--1973 एकमेक्स लिमिटड, एपेक्स भक्तिनगर, निम्न प्रकार के सड़ी डीजल इंजिन 

स्टेशन रोड , राजकोट ( गुजरात ) ----- -- 
कार्यालय · नवलकुंज एनेक्सी, डा० कि वा० आर० पी० टाइन 
राजेन्द्रप्रसाद रोड, गजकोट-1 ( गुजरात ) एम . 


6 मी० एम०/ एल- 3207 

1 - 11 - 1972 


3 . 67 ( 5 1300 142 
हा पा० ) 

IS: 160 [-- 1960 
1 - 11 - 1972 31 -10 - 1973 विक्की इलेक्ट्रानिक्स, प्लाट सं० 92 सी०, ( 1 ) इकहरी फोर , बिना खोल वाले , 

कन्हीवली इन्डस्ट्रियल इस्टेट , कन्नीवली 250/ 440 वोल्ट ग्रेड ताबा वाले 
बम्बई - 67 

बालक और 
( 2 ) इकहरी कोर , खोलवाले, 650/ 

1100 वोस्ट ग्रेड एल्यूमिनियम 
वाले चालक 
IS 69 ! ( भाग 1 
और 2) -1964 


7 मी० एम० / पल 0 - 3208 

3 - 11 - 1972 
8 सी० एम० / एल -3209 

3 - 11 - 1970 


16 - 11-- 1972 15 - 11 - 1973 मैसूर एग्रोकेमिकल्स , अन्मारी रोठ, बन्दर डी० डी० टी० पायसनीय तेज व 
मंगलौर - 1 

___ IS663 - 1956 
एन्ड्रिन पायसनीय तेज द्रव 

IS 1310 - 1988 


111 - 11 - 1972 


15 - 11 - 1973 


9. सी० एम० एल०- 321 ) 

3 - 11 - 1972 


16 - 11 - 1972 15 - 11 - 1973 टाटा फिशन इंडस्ट्रीज लि० , प्लाट मं० फेनीट्रोधियान पायसनीय नेज द्रव 

94 इडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट , अम्बाटूर - IS. 5 28 1-- 1969 
मद्राम -38 


10 सी० एम० एल०- 3201 

3 - 11 - 1972 


1 - 11 - 1972 31 - 1() - 1973 कनिम इंडस्ट्रियल कारपोरेशन , ( कन्डक्टर्स शिगेपरिपावर प्रेषण कार्यो के लिये 

डिवीजन ) ए० -5, इंडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट , मच्न विवे लड़दार एल्युमिनियम 
धारानसी ( उ०प्र० ) 

और इस्पात की कोर पाले चायक 


8 - 1961 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


. 


- - 


- - -- 


. 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


-- 


- - - - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2175 


SEC. 3 ( it ] 
- - - - - - - - - - - - 

( 1 ) ( 2 ) 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - - - - 


- - - - - 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


.. - - - 


- 


11. सी० एम०/ एल०-3212 

3 - 11 - 1972 


12. सी० एम०/ एल०- 32 13 

3 - 11 - 1972 


( 3 ) 

- - 
16 - 11- 1972 15-- 11 - 1973 बिहन महाराष्ट्र शुगर मिडीकेट लि०, रम 

श्रीपुर , लहसील मलसीरास , जिला IS: 38 11- 1966 
शोलापुर, महाराष्ट्र राज्य (कार्यालय 
980 सदाशिव पेठ, कानवेल्थ बिल्डिंग 
लक्ष्मी रोर , पूना- 30 जिला पूना 

( महाराष्ट्र ) 
16 - 11- 1972 15 - 11 - 1973 बिन महाराष्ट्र शुगर सिंडीकेट लि . , जिन 

श्रीपुर, तहसी न मलसीराम , जिला IS: 4100 - 1967 
शोलापुर , महाराष्ट्र राज्य (कार्यालयः 
980 सवाशिव पेठ , कामनवेल्य 
बिल्डिग लक्ष्मीरोड, पूना-30 जिला 
पूना ( महाराष्ट्र ) 

हिवस्कियां 

IS: 4449 - 1967 
16 - 11 - 1972 15 - 11 - 1973 

बांडिया 

IS :4450-- 1967 
16- 11 - 1972 15 - 11 - 1973 हीरान स्माल स्केल इंडस्ट्रीज , 1/ 5 ए०, खनिको के लिये केबल चमड़े के तल्ला 
बुरवारी तहला रोड , कलकत्ता -10 लगे बचाष चमड़ा के बूट 

IS: 1989 - 1967 


16 - 11 - 1972 15 - 11 - 1973 


13. सी० एम०/ एल०- 32 1 4 
___ 3 - 11--1972 
14. सी० एम०/ एल - 3215 

3-- 11 - 1972 
15. सी० एम०/ एल०- 3216 

10 - 11 - 1972 


16. सी० एम०/ एल - 3217 

13- 11 - 1972 


17. सी० एम / एल०- 3218 

13 - 11 - 1972 


18. सी० एम० एल०- 3219 

13-- 11 - 1972 


19. सी० एम०/ एल - 3220 

14 -- 11 - 1972 


16-- 11 - 1972 15 - 11 - 1973 मेट्रोपोल कारपोरेशन ( इंडिया ) , 262, कपड़ा धोने का टाइप 1 ग्रेड 2, शुद्ध 

फेज 3, अोखला इंडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट साधुन 
के भीतर नई दिल्ली - 20 

IS : 285 - 1964 
16- 11-- 1972 1.5 - 11 - 1973 मेट्रोपोल कारपोरेशन ( इंडिया ) , 262, प्रवित साबुन -- 

फेज, 3, अोखला इंडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट IS: 4199 - 1967 

के भीतर, नई दिल्ली- 20 
16 - 11 - 1972 15 - 11 - 1973 बी० सी० पायरन फाउंडरी , सुल्तान मेनहोल नमूने 1 और 2 के उलयां 
गंज, प्रागरा 

लोहे के पायवान 

IS: 5 155 - 1989 
16--11 - 1972 15- 11- 1973 शंकर मशीन टूल्स प्रा . लि ., 27 मार्डन उठल्यू सी० और मूत्रालयों के लिये 

इंडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट, बहादुरगढ़ , जिला घंटे नुमा केवल 12. 5 लीटर समाई 
रोहतक 

वाले ढलयां लोहे की पलं शिग टंकिया 

IS: 774 - 1971 
1 - 12 - 1972 30 - 11 - 1973 स्टील टेयूब आफ इंडिया प्रा० लि०, स्वचल कार्यों के लिये केवल ई० आर० 
27/ 34 इंडस्ट्रियल इस्टेट, इन्दौर उम्ल्यू० 1 प्रकार की इस्पात की 

नालियां: ---- 

IS: 3074- 1965 
1 - 12 - 1972 30 -11-- 1973 दि० मेगना मिल्म कं० लि . , डाकघर ( 1 ) ए-द्रिवल पटसन बोरे 

अगतवल जिला 24 - परगना ( कार्यालय ( 2) बी-टियल पटेसन बोरे-- 

16 स्ट्रेट रोड , कलकत्ता में है ) . IS: 1943-1964 
1 -12- 1972 30 -- 11 - 1973 सिंदीम लिमिटेड , टाउन सिंवी, तहसील ची० एच० सी० धूलन पाउडर 

एंड जिला वर्धा, (कार्यालयः धरमकर IS:5 61 - 1962 
बिल्डिंग : एक दाम सेठ, नागपुर-10 


20. सी० एम० /एल - 3221 

28 - 11 - 1972 


21. सी० एम० / एल०- 3 222 

28 - 11 - 1972 


22. सी० एम० / एल - 3223 

28 - 11 - 1972 


में है । 


1 - 12 - 1972 30 - 11 - 1973 


बी० एच० सी० जल विमर्जनीय पाउ 


23. सी० एम०/ एल०- 3224 

28 - 11 - 1972 


IS : 562 - 1961 


31 GI / 73 - 7 


2176 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[ PART II 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


( 1 ) 


- - - - - - - 
( 4 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


1 - 12 - 1972 


30 - 11 - 1973 


24. सी० एम०/ एल०- 3225 

28 - 11-- 1972 


डी० डी० टी० धूलन पाउडर 
__ IS . 564 - 1961 


1 - 12 - 197230 - 11 - 1973 


25. सी० एम०/एल० - 3226 

28 - 11 -- 1972 


डी० सी० टी० जल विसर्जनीय तेज 

चूर्ण 


565 - 1961 


26. सी० एम० / एल-3227 

28 - 11 - 1972 


1 - 12- 1972 30 - 11 - 1973 मिवीचेम लिमिटेड , टाउन सिदी तहसील एल्ड्रिन का पायसनीय तेज चूर्ण 

एंड जिला वर्धा (कार्यालय : घरसकर IS: 1.310- 1958 
बिल्डिंग एक दास पेठ , नागपुर- 10 


27. सी० एम०/ एल -3228 

28 -- 11 - 1972 


1 -- 12- 1972 30 - 11 - 1973 पी० एन० एम० कम्पनी , पेवदराय रोड, बी० एल० सी० धूलन पाउडर 

इरोड , (कार्यालयः 95-केलाम्पलयम IS. 561 - 1962 
रोड ,इरोड में है ) 


1 - 12 - 1972 


30 - 11 - 1973 


28. सी० एम०/ एल-3229 

28 - 11 - 1972 


डी० डी० टी० धूलन पाउडर 

IS: 564 - 1961 


1 - 12 - 1972 


30 - 11 -- 1973 


ब -- 


29. सी० एम०/एल० - 32 30 

28 - 11 - 1972 


मालाथियोन पायसनीय तेज 

IS: 2567 - 1963 


30. सी० एम०/एल-3231 

28-- 11 - 1972 


1 - 12 -1972 30 -11- 1973 सोब प्राइवेट लि०, सुन्वक्रमटूर रोड, निम्न रेटिंग वाले खड़ी प्रकार के रिजल 

कुनियामूटूर डाकघर , कोयम्बटूर- 8 इंजिन 
( कार्यालय : कोनियामुटूर कोयम्बटूर कि० वा . पार० पी० एम० टाइप 
में है ) 

3 . 7 ( 5 हा० पा० ) 1500 एस० 

मो० सी० ए० 
IS: 1601- 1960 


31. सी० एम० एल०- 3232 

28 - 11 - 1972 


1 - 12- 1972 30 - 11 - 1973 नेशनल मेटल प्रेसिंग कारपोरेशन, 83/ 2, पिटवा एल्युमिनियम के वर्तन ग्रेड 
इण्डस्ट्रियल एरिया , बंगलौर-22 एस० माई० सी०-- 

IS: 211 - 1959 


L -- 12- 1972 30 - 11- 1973 


32. सी० एम०/ एल- 3233 

30 -- 11 - 1972 


न्यू विजय इंडस्ट्रीज लि०, आर एस० सं० ठंडे और साफ ताजे पानी के लिये 

358, डाकघर विल्डिग कालिज, तिज अपकेन्द्रीय पम्प केवल साइड 
विश्राम बेग , संगली ( महाराष्ट्र राज्य ) साइज 75 . 65 मिमी० 

IS :15.20 - 1969 


1 - 12 - 1972 30 - 11 - 1973 


33. सी० एम०/ एल- 3234 

30 - 11 - 1972 


सी० प्रभुदास के० प्रा० लि ., इंडस्ट्री इस्पात की कोर वाले एल्युमिनियम 
रिवीजन, बंदर रोड, भावनगर ( गुज - चालकों के लिये इस्पात के तार 

IS: 398 - 1961 


रात ) 


1 - 12 - 1972 30 - 11 - 1973 


34. सी० एम०/ एल- 3235 

30 - 11 - 1972 


स्वरूप केमिकल्स , वाटर वर्क्स रोड, ऐश - एलिङ्गन धूलन पाउडर 
बाग लखनऊ - 4 

IS:130 - 1958 


35. सी० एम०/ एल- 3236 

30 - 11 - 1972 


1 - 12 - 1972 30 - 11 - 1973 सिंदीधेम लिमिटेड , टाउनसिदी, तहसील मालाथियान पायसनीय तेज द्रव 

एंड जिला वर्धा (कार्यालय : धरसकार IS: 2567 - 1963 
बिल्डिग रामदास पेठ , नागपुर- 10 

में है )। 
- - - - - - 

[सं० सी० एम० डी०/ 13:11] 
एस० के० सेन , महानिदेशक 


- - 


- 


-- 


Sec . 3 ( ü ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2177 


= 


= = 


. 


1 


$ . O . 1700 . - In pursuance of sub -regulation ( 1) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) 
Regulations, 1955 , as amended from time to time, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that thirtyfive licences, particulars of 
which are given in the following Schedule , have been granted during the month of November 1972 authorizing the licensccs to use the 

Standard Marks. 

SCHEDULE 


Licence No. (CM /L -) 


Nameand Addrçus of the Licensee 


No. 


Poriod of Validity 
From 

To 


Articlc/ Process Covered by the 
Licences and the Relevant LS : 

Designation 


- - 


-- -- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


( 1) 


(6 ) 


1 . CM / L - 3202 . 

1 - 11 - 1972 


. 


. 


. 


1 - 11 - 1972 


2 . CM / L - 3203 , 

1 - 11 - 1972 


. 


. 


1- 11 - 1972 


31 - 10 - 1973 Shau & Company , 223, Belilious Sluice valves for wator works 

Road . Howrah (Oflice : 129 / 10 , purposes, upto 300 mm size 
Belilious Road , Howrah ). 

IS : 780 - 1969 
31 - 10 - 1973 The Aluminium Industries Ltd ., PVC - insulated and PVC - sbea . 

No. 1 , Ceranic Factory Road , thed solid aluminium conduc 
Kụndara , Kerala State. 

tored cables of voltage rating 
upto and including 1100 volts — 

IS : 4288 – 1967. 
31- 10- 1973 Sewrce Iron & Steel Co.,6 , Sewree Structural steel (Standard Quality ) 
Cross Road, Bombay - 15 . 

- IS : 226 - 1969 
31-10- 1973 

-do 

Structural steel (Ordinary Quality ) 

. - IS : 1977 – 1969 


. 


. 


. 


1-11-1972 


3. CM /L -3204 . 

1 - 11 - 1972 
4. CM /L -3205 

1- 11 - 1972 


. 


. 


1-11- 1972 


5 . CM / L - 3206 

1 - 11 - 1972 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1- 11- 1972 


6 . CM / L - 3207 , 

1 - 11 - 1972 


. 


. 


1 - 11- 1972 


31- 10 - 1973 Accumax Limited , Appeksha Vertical deisel engines of the 

Bhaktinagar, Station Road , following rating : 
Rajkot (Gujarat ), (Office : KW RPM Type 
Naval Kunj Annexe , Dr. 
Rajendra prasad Road , Rajkot - 1 3 .67 5HP 1500 VW - 2 
(Gujarat) 

IS : 1601 - 1960 
31 - 10 - 1973 Vicki Electronics, Plot No. 92C , PVC insulated cables : 

Kandivilee Industrial Estate , 1. Single core , unsheathed , 250 / 
Kandivilce , Bombay -67 

440 volts grade with copper 

conductor ; and 
2 . Single core , sheathed , 650 / 1 100 

volts grade with aluminium 

conductor. 

IS : 694 ( Part 1 & U )- 1964 
15 - 11 - 1973 Mysore Agro Chemicals, Ansari DDT Emulsifiablc concentrates 

Road , Bunder, Mangalore- 1 IS : 633 – 1956 
15- 11-1973 

-do 

Endrin emulsifiable concent 

rates - - IS : 1310 - 1958 


7 . CM / L - 3208 , 

3 - 11 - 1972 


, 


, 


, 


16 - 11 - 1972 


8 . CM / L - 3209 

3 - 11 - 1972 


. 


. 


. 


16 -11-1972 


, 


9 . CM / L - 3210 

3 - 11- 1972 


. 


16 - 11- 1972 


15 - 11 - 1973 


Tata Fison Industries Ltd . Plot Fenitrothion emulsiflable con 
No. 94 , Industrial Estate , centrates - IS ; $ 281 - 1969 
Ambattur , Madras -58 


. 


. 


. 


10 . CM / L - 3211 , 

3 - 11 - 1972 


1 - 11- 1972 
1 - 11 - 1972 


31- 10 - 1973 Kavisa Industrial 
31- 10 - 1973 Kavisa Industrial Corporation , Hard - drawn standard aluminium 

( Conductor Divison ), A -S , and steel-cored aluminium 
Industrial Estate , Varanasi (UP) conductors for overhead power 

transmission purposes - IS : 
398 – 1961 


. 


, 


, 


16 - 11- 1972 


15 - 11 - 1973 


11, CM / L - 3212 

3 -11 - 1972 


Brihan Maharashtra Sugar Syndi- Rum - IS : 3811 – 1966 

cate Ltd , Shrecpur , Tahasil 
Malsiras, Distt. Sholapur, 
Maharashtra State, (Office : 
980 , Sadashiv Peth , Common 
wcalth Bldg., Laxmi Road 
Poona- 30 Distt. Poona 
(Maharashtra State ) 


. 


. 


. 


16 - 11- 1972 


12 . CM / L - 3213 . 

3 - 11 - 1972 


15 - 11 - 1973 Brihan Maharashtra Sugar Syndi- Gin - IS : 4100 – 1967 

cate Ltd , Shrçopur , Tahsil : 
Malsiras , Distt. Sholapur, 
Maharashtra (Office : 980 , Sada 
shiv Peth , Commonwealth Bldg , 
Laxmi Road , Poona - 30 , Distt. 
Poona ) (Maharashtra State ) 


13 . CM /L- 3214 


. 


. 


. 


16 - 11- 1972 


15- 11 -1973 


- do 


Whisky-- IS : 4449 - 1967 


3 - 11 -1972 


14 . CM /L -3215 . 

3 - 11 - 1972 


. 


. 


. 


16 -11- 1972 


15- 11- 1973 


-do 


Brandies — IS : 4450 – 1967 


(3) 


(4) 


-do 


20. CM /L- 3221 . 


. 


. 


. 


1-12-1972 


30-11-1973 


2178 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

[PART 11 
(1 ) (2 ) 

(5) 
15 . CM / L - 3216 , . . .. 16 - 11 - 1972 

16 - 11- 1972 15 -11 - 1973 Hiron Small Scale 
1 

Industries , Miners safety leather boots with 
10 - 11 - 1972 

1 /5A , Burwaritala Road , Cal leather solo only - IS : 1989 
cutta - 10 

1967 
16. CM /L -3217 . . . . 16 - 11- 1972 15 -11-1973 Metropol Corpn . (India ), 262, Laundry soap, type I, Grade II , 
13 - 11 - 1972 

Phaso III, Inside Okhla In - purc — IS : 285 – 1964 

dustrial Estate , New Delhi-20 
17. CM /L-3218 . . . . 16 -11 -1972 15 -11-1973 

Liquid soap - IS ; 4199 - 1967 
13 - 11 - 1972 
18 . CM / L - 3219 . . . . 16 - 11- 1972 15 - 11- 1973 B , C . Tron Foundry , Sultangan , Cast iron steps for manholes 
13 - 11- 1972 

Agra 

pattern I and 11 - IS : 5455 

1969 
19 . CM / L - 3220 . . . . 

16 - 11- 1972 
16 - 11 - 19 

15 - 11 - 1973 Shankara Machine Tools Pvt. Cast iron flushing cisterns for 
14 - 11 - 1972 

Ltd ., 27A , Modern Industrial water -closcsts and urinals , 
Estatc, Bahadurgarh , Distt. bell typo, 12 . 5 litres capacity 
Rohtak 

only - IS : 774 – 1971 
20 . CM / L - 3221 . . . 

1 - 12 - 1972 30 - 11- 1973 Steel Tubes of India Pvt. Ltd , Steel tubes for automative pur 
28 -11-1972 

27 / 34 , Industrial Estate , Indore poses , grade ERW - 1 only 

IS : 3074– 1965 
21. CM /L -3222 . . . . 1-12-1972 30 -11-1973 The Megna Mills Co. Ltd , P .O . (1) A - twill jute bags — IS : 1943 
28 -11- 1972 

Jagatdal, Distt. 24 Parganas 1964 
(Office : 16 Strand Road , (ii) B -twill jute bags - IS : 2566 
Calcutta ) 

1965 
22. CM /L - 3223 , , 1-12-1972 30 - 11 -1973 Şindichem Ltd, Town Sindi, BHC dusting powders - IS : 561 
28 -11 - 1972 

Tahsil & Distt. Wardha (Office : 1962 
Dharaskar Bldg., Ramdaspeth , 

Nagpur - 10 
23 . CM / L - 3224 . . . 1 - 12- 1972 30 - 11- 1973 

- do 

BHC water dispersible powder --- 
28 - 11 - 1972 

IS : 562- 1961 
24 . CM /L - 3225 . . 1- 12 - 1972 30 -11- 1973 

-do 

DDT dusting powdors — IS : 564 
28 - 11 - 1972 

1961 
25. CM /L -3226 , , , 1-12 -1972 30 -11 -1973 

DDT water dispersible powder 

concentrates — IS : 565- 1961 
CM /L - 3227 , , 1-12- 1972 30 -11-1973 

-do 

Endrin emulsifiablc concentrates 
28 - 11 - 1972 

IS : 1310– 1958 
CM / L -3228 , 

1- 12 - 1972 30 - 11- 1973 P . N . M . Company, Perundurai BHC dusting powders - IS : 561 
28 - 11 - 1972 

Road, Erode (Оfice : 95, 1962 

Kollampalayam Road, Erode -1) 
28 . CML- 3229 . . . . 1 - 12 - 1972 U - 11- 1913 

- do 

DDT dusting powders - IS :564 
28 -11- 1972 

1961 
29, CM /L-3230 . . . . 1-12 - 1972 30 -11-1973 

-do 

Malathion emulsifiable con 
28- 11 - 1972 

centrates — IS : 2567 – 1963 
30. CM / L - 3231 , , , , 

1 - 12 - 1972 30 - 11 - 1973 Sova Private Ltd , Sundakka- Vorticle diesel engines of the 
28 - 11 - 1972 

muthur Road , Kuniamuthur following rating ; 
Post, Coimbatore - 8 (Offico : KW R . P . M . Type 
Kuniamuthur , Coimbatore -8 ) 

3. 7 (5HP ) 1500 SOVA - 1 

IS : 1601 - 1960 
31 . CM /L - 3232 . . . . 1-12-1972 30 - 11 -1973 National_Metal Prossing Corpn ., Wrought aluminium 
28 - 11 - 1972 

83 /2 , Industrial Area , Banga - Grade ; SIÇ – IS : 21 - 1959 

lore - 22 
32 CML- 3233 . . . 1 - 12 - 1972 30 - 11- 1973 New Vijay Industries Ltd , R . S . No . Horizontal centrifugal Pumps 
30 - 11 - 1972 

358 , P . O . Willingdon College, for clear , cold , fresh water , 
Vishrambag , Sangli (Maha - size 75x65 mm oply - IS : 1520 
rashtra State ) 

1969 
33 . CM / L -3234 , . . . 

1 - 12 - 1972 
1 12 - 1972 

30 - 11 - 1973 
V - 11 - 19 

C . Prabhudas & Co . Pvt. Lid , Steel wiro for the core of steel 
30 - 11 - 1972 

Industry Division , Bunder cored aluminiums conductors 

Road , Bhavnagar , (Gujarat) IS : 398 – 1961 
CM / L - 3235 , , , , 

1- 12 - 1972 30 - 11 - 1973 Swrup Chemicals , Water Works Aldrin dusting powders — IS : 
30 - 11 - 1972 

Road , Aish Bagh , Lucknow - 4 1308 - 1958 
35 . CM / L - 3236 . . . . 1 - 12- 1972 30 - 11 - 1973 Sindichom Limited , Town Şindi, Malathion emulsifiable concent 
30-11-1972 

Tahsil and District Wardha rates - IS : 2567 - 1963 
(Offico : Dharaskar Building, 

Ramdas Peth , Nagpur- 10 ) 
- - - - - 

[No . CMD /13 : 11 ] 
S. K . SEN , Director General 


. 


28- 11- 1972 


. 


- do 


. 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2179 


आदेश 


the 28th November, 1974 , and makes the following amend 
ments in the Order of the Government of India in the late 

Ministry of Industrial Development No . 4058 /IDRA/ 6 / 8 / 72 
dated the 29th November, 1972, namely : - - 


नई दिल्ली, 31 मई , 1973 


का . आ . 1701. - आई टी आर ए/ 6 / 4 / 73-विकास परिषद 
( प्रक्रियात्मक ) नियम , 1952 के नियम 3 और 8 के साथ पठित 
उद्योग विकास और विनियमन ) अधिनियम , 1951 की धारा 6 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार, (1 ) 
श्री अशोक गखरे के स्थान पर अध्यक्ष , मैसर्स एसोसिएशन आफ 
सिन्धटिक फाइबर्स आफ इण्डिया , 84 वीर नरीमान रोड मुम्बई ( 2 ) 
श्री डी . एम श्रीफ के स्थान पर अध्यक्ष , मैसर्स सिल्क एण्ड आर्ट 
सिल्क मिल्स एसोसिएशन लिमिटेड, 78, पीर नरीमान रोड, मुम्बई , 
( 3) अध्यक्ष , एसोसिएशन आफ मैन -मैट, फाइबर इण्डस्ट्री, 78, पीर 
नरीमान रोड, मुम्बई , (4) श्री सुभाष ठक्कर, मैसर्स इम्पोर्ट क्स 
प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, साधना हाउस , दादाभाई नारोजी रोड, मुम्बई को , 
28 नवम्बर, 1974 तक , जिसमें यह तारीख भी सम्मिलित है , की 
अवधि के लिए माननिर्मत वस्त्र विकास परिषद् के सदस्यों के 
रूप में नियुक्त करती है और भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व ऑझ्योगिक 
विकास के आदेश सं . 4058 / आई ही आर ए/ 8 / 8/ 12, तारीख 29 
नवम्बर, 1972 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है , अर्थात : 
उक्त आदेश के पैरा 1 में , 


In paragraph 1 of the said Order : 
( 1) for Serial Nos. 5 , 6 , 24 and 25 and the entries 

relating thereto , the following serial Nos, and en 

tries shall respectively be substituted, namely : 
" ( 5 ) The Chairman , M / s. Association of Synthetic 

Fibres of India , 84 , Veer Nariman Road, Bom 

bay; 
( 6) The Chairman, M / s. Silk and Art Silk Mills 

Association Limited , 78 , Veer Nariman Road , 

Bombay ; 
(24 ) Dr. A . Scctharamiah , Diiector General, Directo 

rate General of Technical Development, New 

Delhi; 
( 25 ) The President , Association of Man- Made Fibre 

Industry , 78, Veer Nariman Road, Bombay ; " , 
( 2 ) after Serial No . 25, the following Serial No. and 

entry shall be inserted , namely : 
"( 26 ) Shri Subhas Thakkar of M / s, Importex Privato 

Limited, Sadhana House, Dadabhoy Naroji Road , 
Bombay ." 

[ No . 15 ( 8) / 71 - L. C ] 
S . B . GOEL , Under Secy . 


( 1) क्रम सं . 5, 6, 24 और 25 तथा उनसे संबंधित प्रविष्टियों 
के स्थान पर कमशः निम्नलिखित क्रम सं . और प्रविष्टियां रखी 
जाएंगी, अर्थात : 


संचार मंत्रालय 

( डाक-तार पांड ) 
नई दिल्ली , 15 जून , 1973 


"(5 ) अध्यक्ष , मैसर्स एसोसिएशन आफ सिन्धटिक फाइनर्म 

आफ इण्डिया , 84, वीर नरीमान रोड, मुम्बई ; 
"( 6) अध्यक्ष, मैसर्स सिल्क एण्ड आर्ट सिल्क मिल्स एसोसिए 

शन लिमिटेड, 78, वीर नरीमान रोड, मुम्बई , 
( 24 ) डा. ए सीशिमय्या, महानिदेशक, तकनीकी विकास महा 
निदेशालय, नई दिल्ली 


का . आ . 1702. स्थायी संख्या - - - - - - स्थायी आदेश 
संख्या 827, दिनांक 8 मार्च, 1960 द्वारा लागू किए गए भारतीय 
तार नियम 1951 के नियम 434 के खण्ड 3 के पैरा ( क ) के अन 
सार डाक - तार महानिदेशक ने कोहिमा टेलीफोन केन्द्र में दिनांक 
1-7-73 से प्रमाणित दर प्रणाली लागू करने का निश्चय किया है । 

[ सं . 5- 22 /73 पी. एच . बी . ] 
बी . पोहरा, सहायक महानिदेशक ( पी . एच . डी .) 


( 25 ) अध्यक्ष , एसोसिएशन आफ मैन-मंड फइनर इण्डस्ट्री, 78 , 
वीर नरीमान रोड , मुम्बई " , 


( 2) क्रम सं . 25 के पश्चात निम्नलिखित क्रम सं. और 

माविष्टि अन्तःस्थापित की जाएगी , अर्थात : 
" (26) श्री सुभाष ठक्कर, मैसर्स इम्पोर्ट क्स प्राइवेट लिमि 

टेर साधना हउस , दादाभाई नारोजी रोड, मुम्बई । " 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

(P & T BOARD ) 
New Delhi, the 7th / 151h Junc, 1973 


__ [ सं . 15 (8 ) / 71 - एल . सी .] 
एस . बी . गोयल, अपर सचिव 


S . O . 1702. - In pursuance of para (a ) of Section UI of 
Rule 434 of Indian Telegraph Rules , 1951, as introduced by 
S. O . No . 627 dated 8th March, 1960 , the Director General, 
Posts and Telegrapha, hereby specifies the 1- 7 - 1973 as the 
date on which tho Measured Rate System will be introduced 
in KOHIMA Telephono Exchange , North Eastern Circla 

[ No. 5 - 22 / 73-PHB] 

A. S. VOHRA, 
Assistant Director General (PHB). 


ORDER 


New Delhi , tho 31st May , 1973 


S . O . 1701. - IDRA / 6 / 4 / 73 - In exercise of the powers 
confered by section 6 of the Industries (Development and 
Regulation ) Act, 1951, reud with iules 3 and 8 of the Deve 
lopinent Councils ( Procedural ) Rules, 1952 , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby appoints ( 1 ) The Chairman, M / s . Associa 
tion of Synthetic Fibres of India , 84, Veer Nariman Road , 
Bombay, in place of Shri Ashok Garware, ( 2 ) The Chairman, 

M / s. Silk & Art Silk Mills Association Ltd ., 78, Veer Nari 
pian Road , Hombay, in place of Shri D . N . Shroff , ( 3 ) The 
Picsident, Association of Man -Made Fibre Industry , 78 , Veer 
Nariman Road , Bombay, ( 4) Shri Subhash Thakkar of M / s . 
Importex Private Limited , Sadham House , Dadabhoy Naroji 
Road, Bombay, as members of the Development Council 
for Man -Mado Textiles , for i period upto and inclusive of 


सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 
नई दिल्ली, 18 मई , 1978 


का . आ . 1703. - चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 5 (1 ) 
और चलचित्र ( सेन्सर) नियम , 1958 के नियम 9 के उप -नियम ( 2) 
के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उप -नियम (3 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारी 
का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार ने केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेन्सर बोर्ड से 


2180 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[ PART II -- 


New Delhi , 19th May , 1973 


परामर्श करके एतद्वारा निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को तत्काल से 
30 जून , 1973 तक उक्त बोर्ड के सम्बई सलाहकार पैनल का सदस्य 
नियुक्त किया है : 

1. श्रीमती वीना सेठी 
2. श्रीमती आशा संठ 
3. श्रीमती मालती गिलानी 
4. श्रीमती मन्ज, अग्रवाल 
5. श्री जोया अन्सरी 

[ सं . 11/ 3/ 72-एफ ( सी ) ] 


S . O . 1703. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sçc 
tion 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule 
( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rulo 2 of rule 9 of the Cine 

matograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958, the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints the following persons after congul 
tation with the Central Board of Film Censors as Members 
of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with 
immediate effect upto 30th June , 1973 : 

1. Smt. G . Dubey 
2. Smt. Padma Sadanandam 

[ No . 11 / 4 / 72 - F-( C )] 
HARJIT SINGH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, 18th May, 1973 


S. O . 1703. In exercise of the powers conferred by sec 
tion 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub -rule ( 3 ) 
of rules read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 of the Cinemato 
graph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , the Central Government 
hereby appoints the following persons after consultation 
with the Central Board of Film Censors As Members of the 
Advisory Panel of the said Board at Bombay with immcdiate 
effect upto 30th June, 1973: - - 

1. Smt. Vecna Sethi 
2. Smt. Asha Seth 
3. Smt. Malati Gilan ! 
4 . Smt. Manju Agarwal 
5. Shri Zoya Ansari 

[ No. 11 / 3/ 72 - F( C)] 


स्वास्थ्य और परिवार नियोजन मंत्रालय 

( स्वास्थ्य विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 2 जून , 1973 
का प्रा .1706 भारतीय चिकित्सा परिषद अधिनियम , 1956 ( 1956 का 102 ) 
की धारा 3 को उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( ख ) के उपबन्धों के अनुसरण 
में निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को उनके सामने दिखाये गये विश्वविद्यालय 
द्वारा प्रत्येक के सामने दी गई तिथि से भारतीय चिकित्सा परिषद् का 
सवस्य निर्वाचित किया गया है, नामत. – 


- - - - -- - 


- - 


25 - 3 - 1973 


का . आ . 1704. - पलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 5 ( 1 ) 
और चलचित्र ( सेन्सर) नियम , 1958 के नियम 9 के उपनियम ( 2 ) 
के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उप -नियम ( 3) वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड से 
परामर्श करके एतद्द्वारा श्रीमती मीनाक्षी बस, को तत्काल से 30 जून , 
1973 तक उक्त बोर्ड के कलकत्ता सलाहकार पैनल का सदस्य 
नियुक्त किया है । 

[ सं . 11 / 5/ 72 -एफ ( सी ) ] 


S . O . 1704. . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sec 
tion 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub - rule 
( 3 ) or rulo 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 of the Cinema 
tograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958 , the Central Government 
hereby appoints Smt. Minakshi Basu after consultation 
with tho Central Board of Film Censors as member of the 
Advisory Panel of the said Board at Calcutta with imme 
diate effect. upto 30th June, 1973 . 

[ No. 11 / 5 / 72 - F( C) ] 


व्यक्ति का नाम 

विश्वविद्यालय का निर्वाचन तिथि 
नाम जिसके द्वारा 
निर्वाचित किया 

गया है 
1. डा० पी० एन० छुटानी निवेशक , पजाब विश्व 

स्नातकोत्तर चिकित्सा शिक्षा विद्यालय 
एवं अनुसंधान संस्थान, चण्डीगढ़ 
को डा . वाई० सचदेवा के स्थान 
पर जो अब उक्त अधिनियम की 
धारा 7 की उपधारा ( 3 ) के 
अधीन इस परिषद् के सदस्य नहीं 

रहे । 
2 . डा० बी० पी० सिन्हा, प्रधानाचार्य , हिमाचल प्रदेश 7-4-1973 
एच०पी० मेडिकल कालेज , शिमला विश्वविद्यालय 

प्रब अतः उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के उपबन्धों 
के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार एतन्वारा भारत सरकार के पूर्व स्वास्थ्य 
मन्त्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० 5-13/ 59 एम० आई० दिनांक 9 जून , 1960 
में प्रागे निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है, नामतः 
उपरोक्त अधिसूचना मे "धारा 3, उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( ख ) " 

के अधीन निर्वाचित शीर्षक के अन्तर्गत - - 
( 1 ) क्रम सं० 9 के सामने की प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर निम्न 

लिखित प्रविष्टि प्रतिस्थापित की जायेगी:---- 
" डा० पी० एन० छुटानी , निदेशक , स्नातकोत्तर चिकित्सा 

शिक्षण एवं अनुसधान संस्थाम, चण्डीगढ़ " । 
( 2 ) कलकत्ता विश्वविद्यालय से सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टि सं० 46 के 

माद निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि अन्तःस्थापित की जायेगी , नामतः 
" 47. डा० बी० पी० सिन्हा , प्रधानाचार्य, हिमाचल प्रदेश 
मेडिकल कालेज, शिमला " । 

[ सं०वी० 110 13/ 1/ 72 एम. पी . टी .] 


नई दिल्ली , 19 मई , 1973 
का . आ . 1106. - चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1962 की धारा 5 (1 ) 
और चलचित्र ( सैन्सर) नियम , 1958 के नियम 9 के उप -नियम ( 2 ) 
के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उप-नियम (3 ) द्वारा प्रवृत्त अधिकारों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार ने केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेन्सर बोर्ड से 
परामर्श करके एतद्वारा निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियो को तत्काल से 
30 जून , 1973 तक उक्त बोर्ड के मद्रास सलाहकार पैनल का सदस्य 
नियुक्त किया है : 

1. श्रीमती जी . दुई 
2. श्रीमती पद्मा सदानन्दम 

[ सं . 11 / 4/ 72 -एफ ( सी ) ] 
हरजीत सिंह, अपर सचिव 


SEC. 3 (ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973 /JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


2181 


THA 26, 1895 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING प्रविष्ट्रि के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि प्रतिस्थापित की जाये , 
( Department of Health ) 

नामतः 
New Delhi , the 2nd June , 1973 
S . O . 1706 , — Whereas in pursuance of the provisions of clause 

" डा . सन्तोष सिंह आनन्द, 
(b ) of sub -section (1 ) of scction 3 of the Indian Medical Council 
Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ), the following persons have been elected 

सलाहकारसहसचिव , चिकित्सा शिक्षा, 
by the University specificd against cach of them to be members 
of the Medical Council of India with effect from the dates 

जम्मू व कश्मीर " । 
notel against each, namcly : - .. . 
Name of person Namc of University Date of 

[ रां, वी. 11013/ 2/ 73 - एम . पी. टी. ] 
which clected him election 

सती बालकृष्णा, अवर सचिन 
1 Dr. PN. Chhunttani, Punjab University 25 - 3-1973 
Director , Post - graduate 

New Delhi , the 4th June, 1973 
Medical Fducation and 
Research Institute , 

S . O . 1707. — Whereas the Central Government has, in 
Chandigarh vice Dr . Y . 

pursuance of the provisions of clause ( a ) of sub- section ( 1 ) 
Sachdeva who has ceased 

of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 
to be a member of the 

of 1956 ) and in consultation with the Government of Jammu 
Council under sub -section 

and Kashmir , nominated Dr. Santokh Singh Anand , Adviser 
( 3) of section 7 of the 

cum -Secretary, Medical Education , Jammu and Kashmir 
Act. 

State, to be a member of the Medical Council of India with 
2 Dr. B .P . Sinha, Principal, Himachal Pradesh 7-4- 1973 effect from the 8th March, 1973: 
H . P . Medical College , University 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub 
Simla . 

section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the said Act, the Central Govern 
ment hereby makes the following further amendment in the 

notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry 
NOW , therefore , in pursuance of the provisions of suh of Health No. 5 - 13 / 59 - MI , dated the 9th January, 1960 , 
section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the said Act , the Central Government 

namely : 
horoby makes the following further amendments in the noti 
fication of tho Government of India , in the lato Ministry of 

In the said notifcation, under the heading Nominated 
Health No 5- 13 / 59 - MI, dated the 9th June , 1960 , namely : 

under clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3, against serial 

No . 15 , for the existing entry, the following entry shall be 
In tho said notification , under the heading " Elected under 

substituted , namely :-- - 
clause (b ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 " — 

" Dr. Santokh Singh Anand , Adviser-cum- Secretary , 

Medical Education , Jammu and Kashmir." 
(i) for the entry against serial No 9, the following entry 
shall be substituted , namely : - 

[ No. V . 11013 /2 / 73- MPT. ] 
" Dr. P . N . Chhuttani , Punjab 

Km . SATHI BALAKRISHNA, Under Secy. 
Director , Post-graduato Medical 

University 
Education Research Institute, 
Chandigarh " 

पर्पटम और नागर विमानन मंत्रालय 
( ii) after entry No 46 relating to the Calicut University , 

the following entry shall be inserted , namely : 
" 47 Dr. B. P. Sinha, 

मई दिल्ली, 1 जून , 1973 
Himachal 
Principal , H .P . Medical College , 

Pradesh 
Simla " 

University 

का . आ . 1708. – यसः 31 मई , 1973 की रात को इंडियन 
[ No 11013/1/72- MPT] 

एयरलाइंस का एक बोइंग 737 विमान वी . टी . ई . ए. एम, मद्रास 
रो दिल्ली के लिये सीधी उड़ान करते हुए पालम से लगभग 23 

मील पूर्व में वसन्त विहार के निकट दुर्घटनाग्रस्त हो गया जिसके 
नई दिल्ली, 4 जून , 1973 

परिणामस्वरूप विमान पर सवार 48 व्यक्तियों (पांच कार्मिकों 

सहित) की मृत्य हाई 
का . आ . 1107 . - यतः भारतीय चिकित्सा परिषद् अधि 
नियम , 1958 (1956 का 102 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1) के ___ और यत: केन्द्रीय सरकार अनुभव करती है कि उक्त दुर्घटना 

खण्ड ( क ) के उपबंधों का अनुसरण करते हुए तथा जम्म व कश्मीर की परिस्थितियों की औपचारिक जांच करना बांछनीय है । 
सरकार के परामर्श से केन्द्रीय सरकार ने 8 मार्च, 1972 से जम्म , 
व कश्मीर राज्य के चिकित्सा शिक्षा के सलाहकार-सह- सचिव डा . 

असः, अब , वायुयान नियम , 1937 के नियम 75 द्वारा प्रदत 
सन्तोष सिंह आनन्द को 8 मार्च, 1973 से भारतीय चिकित्सा 

शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदशारा निवेश 

करती है कि उक्त दुर्घटना की औपचारिक जांच की जाए । 
परिषद का सदस्य मनोनीत किया है । 

केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त जांच करने के लिए दिल्ली उच्च न्याया 
अब , अतः उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 3 की उपधारा (1 ) के 

लय के न्यायाधीश , श्री राजिन्द्र सच्चर को नियुक्त करनी है । 
उपबंधों का अनुसरण करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार भारस सरकार राई 
पूर्व स्वास्थ्य मंत्रालय की दिनांक 9 जनवरी, 1980 की अधिसूचना केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त जांच के लिए असंसरों के सप में कार्य 
सं . 5-13 / 59 - एम . आई . में एतद्द्वारा आगे निम्नलिखिर संशोधन ___ करने के लिए निम्नलिखित को भी नियुक्त करती है : 
करती है : नामतः 

(1) ग्रुप कैप्टेन ए. डी . रल्ली, भारतीय वाय, सेना , 
उक्स अधिसूचना में कम सं . 15 के सामने धारा 3 की उप- धारा ( 2) कैप्टन डी . बोस , परिचालन प्रबंधक (प्रशिक्षण) , एयर 
(1) खण्ड ( क ) के अधीन निर्वाचित शीर्षक के अंतर्गत विद्यमान 

इंडिया , बम्बई । 


2162 


- 


- --- -- - - 


- - - - -- 


- 


करके 30 जून , 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 [PART II 
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - 

- - -- - - - 
जांच अदालत अपना जांच- कार्य पूरा करके 30 जून , 1973 तक ( 2 ) परिभाषाएं 
केन्द्रीय सरकार को अपनी रिपोर्ट प्रस्तुत कर देगी । 

इन नियमो में जब तक कि संवर्भ से अन्यथा अपेक्षित न हो, 
[ फा . सं . ए. वी . 15013 / 20/ 73-२ ] 

( क ) “ अधिनियम से जीव जन्तुओं के प्रति क्रूरता निवारण 
सुरेन्द्र नाथ कॉल . उप - सचित्र 

अधिनियम , 1960 अभिप्रेत है । 
MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 

( ब ) "अभिनय करने वाला जीव -जन्तु " मे मा जीव जन्तु 
New Delhi , the 1st June, 1973 

अभिप्रेत है जिसे किसी मनोरंजन के स्थान पर या प्रयोजन 
S . O . 1708. — Whereas on the night of 31st May, 1973 ani 
Indian Airlines Boeing 737 aircraft VT- EAM , while opera 

के लिये जहां जनता का प्रवेश टिकट द्वारा विक्रय 
ting a direct flight from Madras to Delhi, crashed about 23 
miles cast of Palam near Vasant Vihar , resulting in the death 

होता है उपयोग में लाया जाये । 
of 48 persons (including 5 crew - members ) on board ; 

( ग ) “विहित प्राधिकारी " से राज्य सरकार या ऐसा अन्य 
And whereas it appears to the Central Government that 
it is expedient to hold formal investigation into the circum 

प्राधिकारी जैमा राज्य सरकार साधारण या विशष 
stances of the said accident; 

प्रादेश द्वारा इस निमित विनिर्दिष्ट करे अभिप्रेत है । 
Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
Tule 75 of the Aircraft Rules , 1937, the Central Government 

. ( घ ) “मनुसूची " से इन नियमों से संलग्न अनुसूची अभिप्रेत है 
hereby directs that a formal investigation of the said accident 
be held . 

3. रजिस्ट्रीकरण के लिए आवेदन 
The Central Government 18 further pleased to appoint 

(i ) अधिनियम के अधीन रजिस्ट्रीकरण के लिये अभिनय करमे या 
Shri Justice Rajinder Sachar of the Delhi High Court to hold 
the said investigation , 

जीवजन्तु के प्रदर्शन या प्रशिक्षण को यांछा रखने वाले व्यक्ति 
The Central Government is also pleased to appoint --- 

का हर एक आवेदन प्ररूप में होगा और प्रथम अनुसूची में 
( 1) Group Captain A. D . Ralli , Indian Air Force, 

उपयर्षित विशिष्टयां उसमें अन्तर्विष्ट होंगी । 
(2) Capt. D . Bose , Operations Manager (Training ), Air 

(ii ) ऐसा हर प्रावेदन ऐसे विहित प्राधिकारी को दिया जायेगा जिसके 
India , Bombay, 
to act as Assessors to the sald investigation . 

क्षेत्राधिकार के अन्तर्गत प्रावेदक सामान्यत : निवास करता हो 
The Court of Inquiry will complete its inquiry and mako 

और यदि उसके निवास का कोई निश्चित स्थान न हो तो 
its report to the Central Government by 30th June , 1973. 

भावेवन ऐसे प्राधिकारी को दिया जायेगा, जैसा कि केन्द्रीय 
[ File No Av. 15013 / 20 / 73 - A.] 

सरकार भावेश द्वारा इस निमिन विनिर्दिष्ट करें । 
S. N . KAUL , Dy. Secy . 

4. फीस और रजिस्ट्रीकरण: 
कृषि महालय 

रजिस्ट्रीकरण के लिये दिये जाने वाले हर पावेदन के साथ पञ्चीस 
कृषि विभाग 

रुपये की फीस होगी जो कि नकद या किसी अन्य प्रकार से संवत्त की 
नई दिल्ली , 22 मई, 1973 

जा सकेगी जैसा कि विहित प्राधिकारी द्वारा विनिर्दिष्ट किया जाये । 
का . मा . 1709 - -यत: अभिनय करने वाले जीव जन्तु नियम , 

5. रजिस्ट्रीकरण के प्रमाण पत्र का प्ररूपः - 
1969 का प्रारूप जीव जन्तुओं के प्रति क्रूरता निवारण मधि 

(i ) विहित प्राधिकारी द्वारा जारी किया जाने वाला रजिस्ट्रीकरण 
नियम , 1960 ( 1960 का 59 ) को धारा 38 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 

का प्रमाण-पत्र दूसरी अनुसूची में वर्णित प्ररूप में होगा । 
सारा यथोपेक्षित भारत के राजपत्र भाग 2, खंड 3, उपखंड (ii ), तारीख 

( ii ) हर रजिस्ट्रीकरण को जिस क्रम में पे किये गये हों उस क्रम 
2 अगस्त , 1969 के पृष्ठ 3239 पर भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व खाद्य 

से एक क्रम संख्या दी जायेगी और यह क्रम संख्या आवेदन को 
कृषि , सामुदायिक विकास और सहकारिता मंत्रालय ( कृषि विभाग ) को 

दिय गये रजिस्ट्रीकरण के प्रमाण-पत्र में लिख दी जायेगी । 
अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 309 1, तारीख 25 जुलाई, 1989 के अन्तर्गत 

6. रजिस्टर: 
उनसे संभाव्य : प्रभावित होने वाले सभी व्यक्तियों से 15 सितम्बर , 
1969 तक प्राक्षेप या सुझाव आमन्त्रित करते हुये प्रकाशित किया गया 

हर व्यक्ति जिसे इन नियमों के अधीन रजिस्ट्रीकरण का प्रमाणपत्र 

दिया गया है अपना नाम ऐसे रजिस्टरी मैं लिखेगा जिसे तृतीय अनुसूची 
था । 

में वणित प्ररूप में रखा जायेगा । 
और यत : उक्त राजपत्र जनता को 2 - 8 - 1969 को उपलब्ध करा 
दिया गया था । 

7. रजिस्टर का निरक्षणः 
और प्रत उक्त प्रारूप के बारे में जनता से कोई प्राक्षेप या सुझाब 

इन नियमों के अधीन रखा गया रजिस्टर कार्यालय के समय में 

किसी भी दिन दो रुपये की फीस चुकाने पर निरीक्षण के लिए उपलब्ध 
प्राप्त नहीं हुये थे । 

होगा और कोई भी व्यक्ति उसमें से उसरण ले सकेगा या पांच रुपये की 
प्रतः प्रब जीव जन्तुओं के प्रति क्रूरता निवारण अधिनियम , 1980 

फीस देने पर उसको किसी भी प्रविष्टि की प्रमाणित प्रतिलिपि विये जाने 
( 1960 का 59 ) की धारा 37 के माथ पठित धारा 38 द्वारा प्रदत्त 

को विहित प्राधिकारी से अपेक्षा कर सकेगा । 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा निम्नलिखित नियम 
बनाती है , अर्थात् : 

8. रजिस्टर मे प्रनिस्टियो का फेरफार के लिए प्रादेवन पत्र: 
( 1 ) संक्षिप्त नाम और प्रारम्भ: 

अधिनियम की धारा 23 की उप-धारा ( 5 ) के अधीन रजिस्टर मे 
(i ) इन नियमों का नाम अभिनय करने वाले जीव जन्तु 

प्रविष्टि किन्ही विशिष्टियों में फेरफार के लिये हर आवेदन , चतुर्थ अनु 
नियम, 1972 है । 

सूची में वर्णित प्ररूप में होगा और जब किन्ही विशिष्टिहों मे फेरफार 
(ii ) ये किसी राज्य मे उस तारीख को प्रवृत्त होंगे जिसे राज्य होगा तो रजिस्ट्रीकरण का विद्यमान प्रमाण-पत्र रद कर दिया जायेगा और 
सरकार राजपत्र में अधिसूचना द्वारा नियत करें । 

आवेदन को नया प्रमाण-पत्र दिया जायेगा । 


- - - - - 


. . .. - - - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


किस्म 


- 


-- 


- 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) | THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

VAISTHA 26. 1895 

2183 

- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - 
9. प्रमाण पत्तों को दूसरी प्रतिपो जारी करना : 

4. या तो ( क ) भारत में स्थित निवास स्थान का पता या ( ब ) 
कोई व्यक्ति जिसका नाम इन नियमों के अधीन रजिस्ट्रीकृत किया 

भारत में स्थाई गफ पता जिम पर आवेदक को लिखे गये पन्नो को 
गया है उनके यह सबूत देने पर कि रजिस्ट्रीकरण का मूल प्रमाण पत्र भेजा जा सके । - - -- - 
खो गया है, या नष्ट हो गया है और पान रुपये की फीम चुकाने पर 

5 . दौरे पर होने के समग्र अस्थाई पतो से भिन्न भारत में पता या 
रजिस्ट्रीकरण के प्रमाणपत्र की दूसरी प्रति उसे दी जायगी जिमझा एन 

पते ( यदि कोई हो, ) जहा प्राधेयक अभिनय करने वाले जीव जन्तुओं की 
नियमों में प्रयोजन के लिये वैमा ही प्रभाव होगा जैसा कि मूल रजि 

प्रशिष्टित करता है या प्रशिक्षित करने का प्राशय रखता है ( यदि कोई 
स्ट्रीकरण के प्रमाण पत्र का । 

मही तो लिखिय " कोई नहीं । 
10 जीव जंतु कल्याण बोर्ड की भेजे जाने वाले प्रमाण पत्र प्राण 

____ 6 लिने कि क्या अभिनय करने वाला जीव जन्तु नियम , 1969 
की प्रतियां 

के अधीन पहले रजिस्ट्रीकृत हुपा है । यदि ऐसा है सो रजिस्ट्रीकरण के 
विहित प्राधिकारी हर रजिस्ट्रीकरण के प्रमाण पत्र या उसकी दूसरी 

प्रमाण पत्र की मस्या तथा तारीख लिख्ने । 
प्रतिलिपि या इन नियमो के अधीन जारी किये गये नये प्रमाण पत्र की 
एक प्रति, अधिनियम के अधीन स्थापित जीव जन्तु कल्याण बोर्ड को , 

___ 7. ( i ) अभिनय करने वाले जीव जन्तुमों की किस्में जिन्हें .-- - 
उसके जारी किये जाने के पश्चात यथाशीघ्र भिजवायेगा । 

प्रशिक्षित किये जाने वाले प्रदर्शित किये जाने वाले 

संख्या किस्म संख्या 
प्रथम अनुसूची 
प्राधेपन पत्र का प्ररूप 

( क ) प्रशिक्षित 

( च ) प्रदर्शित 
(नियम 3 देखिये ) 

किये आने का प्रस्ताव है । 
मै , अधोहस्ताक्षरी, अभिनय करने वाले जीव जन्तु नियम , 1969 के 

प्रत्येक किस्म की संख्या बताये 
प्रधीन एतद्द्वारा रजिस्ट्रीकरण के लिये प्रावेदन करता हूं और एस्बद्वारा 

(ii ) प्रदर्शित किये जाने वाले 
-- घोषणा करता हूं कि निम्नलिखित विशिष्टिया मेरी सर्वोतम जानकारी 

पहले से उपलब्ध प्रशिक्षित 
और विश्वासनुसार सत्य और पूर्ण है । 

जीव जन्तु 

किस्म संख्या 
हस्ताक्षर 

8. भभिनय या अभिनयों के साधारण प्रकार को संक्षिप्त रूप से 
तारीख - - - - 

पणित करे जिसमें अभिनय करने वाले जीव अस्तुओं का प्रदर्शन किया जाना 
पता जिस पर रजिस्ट्रीकरण का प्रमाणपत्र 

है या जिसके लिये उन्हें प्रशिक्षित किया जाना है साथ ही उस उपकरण 
मेजना है । 

का वर्णन थे जो अभिनय के प्रयोजन के लिये काम आता है । -- .-. - . 
विशिष्टियां 

प्रदर्शन में भाग लेते हुए जीव जन्तु क्या करेंगे इस विषय में साधारण 
1. साफ अक्षरों में प्रावेदक का पूरा नाम 

आनकारी देने के लिये पर्याप्त वर्णन होना चाहिये, अभिनय को लभगभ 

अवधि , और एक ही दिन में प्रायः कितने बार यह किया जायेगा 
2. भारत में प्रयुक्त नाम (यदि कोई हो ) लिखें -------- 

और अभिनय में भाग लेने वाले प्रत्येक किस्म के कितने जीव जन्तु भाग 

लेगे उन का वर्णन होना चाहिये ? ऐसा कोई व्यौरा लेने की आवश्यकता 
3. राष्ट्रिकता - - - - - - - - - 

मही है जिससे कोई वृत्ति का भेव प्रकट होता हो । 
वित्तीय अनुसूची 

(नियम 5 देख्ने ) 

रजिस्ट्रीकरण का प्रमाण पत्र 
प्रमाणन किया जाना है कि उम व्यक्ति को जिमके बारे में निम्नलिखित विशिष्टिया प्राज की तारीख में अभिनय करने वाले जीव जन्त नियम, 
1989 के अधीन रजिस्ट्रीकरण प्राधिकारी के यहां निम्न के लिये रजिस्ट्रीकृत कर दिया गया है 
स्थान का नाम : 
सारीख : 
रजिस्टर में प्रविष्टि की क्रम मम्या रजिस्ट्रीकरण प्राधिकारी के लिपिक के हस्ताक्षर 

विशिष्टिया 
स्तम्भ 1 स्तम्भ 2 स्तम्भ 3 स्तम्भ 4 स्तम्भ 5 

स्तम्भ 7 स्तम्भ 8 स्तम्भ9 
प्रशिक्षक या प्रव- राष्ट्रिकमा या तो ( क ) भारत यह पता या पसे किसी पूर्व रजिस्ट्री- अभिनय करने वाले अभिनय के साधा- रजिस्ट्रीकरण जीव जन्तुप्रो के 
शक का नाम रंग 

मे स्थिर नियास जहां अभि नय करण की विशि - जीव जन्तुमो की रण रूप का विव - की तारीख प्रति क्रूर मिधारण 
मंच नाम स्थान का पता या करने वाले जीव ष्टियां 

अधिनियम 1960 
( ख ) भारत मे जन्तुनो को प्रणि -- - - -- - - - - 

की धारा 24 के 
स्थाई डाक पता क्षित किया प्रशिक्षित प्रदर्शन 

अधीम न्यायालय 
जिम पर प्रशिक्षक जामा है । किये जाने करने 

द्वारा दिये गये 
या प्रदर्शक को 

वाने वाले 

किसी आदेश की 
लिये गये पत्रों को 

किस्म किस्म 

विशिष्टियां 
भेजा जा सके । 

संख्या संख्या 
31 GI / 73 _ 8 " 


स्तम्भ 6 


किस्म 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


2184 
-- - - - - - --- -- - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


JPART II . 


- - - - 


D . 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


तृतीय प्रमुसूची 
( नियम 6 देखिये ) 
रजिस्टर का प्रम्प 


- . - 


, 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - . . 


- . - 


- - - - 


. . - 


- 


. - - 


स्तम्भ 1 स्तम्भ 2 स्तम्भ 3 

स्तम्भ 4 स्तम्भ 5 स्तम्भ 6 स्तम्भ 7 स्तम्भ 8 स्तम्भ 9 

या सो ( क ) भारत यह पता या पते किसी पूर्व रजिस्ट्री- अभिनय करने वाले अभिनय के माधा- रजिस्ट्रीकरण जीव जन्तुनों के 
दर्शक का नाम 

में स्थित निवास जहां अभिनय करने करण की विशि - जन्तुप्रो की किस्म रण रूप का विष- की सारीस्थ प्रतिरता निवा 
स्थान का पता या वाले जीव जन्तुओं ष्टियां 

- -- - -- - रण 

रण अधिनियम 
( ख ) भारत में को प्रशिक्षक किया 

प्रशिक्षित प्रदर्शन 

1960 की धाग 
स्थायी डाक पता जाना है । 

किये जाने करने 

24 के अधीन 
जिस पर प्रशिक्षक 

वाले वाले 

न्यायालय द्वारा 
या प्रदर्शक को लिये 

------ -- - 

दिये गये किसी 
गये पत्रो को भेजा 

किम्म किस्म 

प्रादेश की विशि 
जा सके । 

संख्या संख्या 

ष्टियां 
- - - . : 

- - - . 

- - -- - -- - - - - -- - - - 
बसुर्य अनुसूची 

( 1 ) Short title and commencement :(1 ) These rules may 

be called the PERFORMING ANIMALS rules , 1973 . 
( नियम 8 देखिये ) 

( ii) They shall come into force in any State on such dato 

as the State Government may, by notification in the 
रजिस्टर में प्रविष्ट विशिष्टियों मे फेरफार क लिए प्रायम का प्ररूप 

Official Gazette , appoint, 
आवेदक के सम्बन्ध में रजिस्टर में प्रविष्ट विशिष्टियों में फेरफार 

(2 ) Definitions :-In these rules, unless the context otherwise 
करवाने के लिये आवेदन । 

requires : 
सेवा में , 

( a ) " Act means the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals 

Act, 1960%; 
विहित प्राधिकारी, 

( b ) " Performing animals means any animal which is used 

at, or for the purpose of any entertainment to which 
आवेदन का पूरा नाम-- -- 

the public are admitted through sale of tickets ; 
( साफ प्रक्षरों में ) 

(c ) “ Prescribed authority " means the State Government 

or such other authority as the State Government 
रजिस्ट्रीकरण के प्रमाण पत्र की संख्या और तारोग्ण ----- - - 

may, by general or special order specify in this behalf 

(d ) " Schedule " mcans a Schedule appended to those 
____ मैं अभिनय करने वाले जीव जन्तु नियम , 1969 के अधीन रजिस्ट्री 

rules . 
करण के अपने प्रमाण पत्र को लौटाता हूं और रजिस्टर में अपने से संबं 

(3 ) Application for Registration:-- (i) Every application by 
धित प्रविष्टि विशिष्टियों में फेरफार करवाने के लिये में एतद् द्वारा निम्नलिखित a person desirous of exhibiting or training any performing 

animal for registration under the Act, shall be in the form 
मावेदन पत्र भेजता हूं जिसके लिये कारण नीचे दिये गये है । 

and shall contain the particulars set out in the first Schedulo 
___ मेरी यह भी प्रार्थना है कि मेरा वर्तमान प्रमाण पत्र रद्द कर दिया 

(ii) Every such application shall be made to the prescribed 

authority within whose jurisdiction the applicant ordinarily 
जायेगा और रजिस्ट्रीकरण का एक नया प्रमाण पत्र मुझे दिया जाये । resides and , if tho he has no fixed placo of residence , tho 

application shall be made to such authority as the Contral 
तारीख 

हस्ताक्षर- - - --- - - - -- 

Government may by ordor specify in this behalf . 


पता - - -- -- - 


( 4 ) Fee and registration :- - Every application for registration 
shall be accompanied by a fee of rupees twenty five which may 
be paid either in cash or in such other manner as may be 
specified by the prescribed authority . 


( 5 ) Form of Certificate of Registration : --(i ) The certificate 
of registration to be issued by tho proscribed authority shall 
be in the form set out in the Second Schedule , ( ii) Every 
registration shall be given a serial number according to the 
order in which it is made, and the serial number shall be inserted 
in the certificate of registration issued to the applicant. 


( 6 ) Register :- Every person to whom a certificate regis . 
tration is issued unde . these rules shall have his namo entered 
in a register which shall be kept in the forin set out in the 
Third Schedule . 


टिप्पणी : - - रजिस्ट्रीकरण के नये प्रमाण पत्र दिये जाने के लिये कोई 
फीम संदेय नहीं है । 

[ सं० 35 - 4/ 72- पशु - धम विकास - 1 ] 

बी० पी० गुलाटी, उप- सचिव 
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE 
Department of Agriculture 

Now Dolhi, the 22nd May, 1973 
s . o . 1709- Whereas tho draft of the Performing Animals Rul 
os, 1969 ,was published as required by sub -section (1) of section 38 
of the Prevention of Cruelty to Aniinals Act, 1960 ( 59 of 1960 ) 
at pago 3239 of tho Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub 
section (ii ) dated the 2nd August , 1969, under the noti 
fication of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Food , 
Agriculture, Community Development and Co -operation (De 
partment of Agriculture), No . S . 0 . 3091, dated the 25th 
July , 1969 inviting objections or suggestions from all persons 
likely to be affected thereby, till the 15th September , 1969. 

AND WHEREAS the said Gazctice was made available 
to the public on 2- 8- 1969 ; 

AND WHEREAS no objections or suggestions were 
recoived from the public on the said draft ; 
___ Now, THEREFORE, in cxercise of the powers conferred 
by section 38 , read with section 37 of the Prevention of Cruelty 
to Animals Act, 1960 ( 59 of 1969 ) the Central Government 
hereby makes the following rules , namely : 


(7 ) Inspection of Register :- The register kept lindor these 
rules shall be opon to inspection during oflico hours on any 
working day on payment of a fee of two jupees and any person 
may tako cxtract therefrom or may requiro the prescribed 
authority to issue to him a certificd copy of any entry 
there in on payment of a fee of five rupees . 


( 8 ) Applications for variation of entries In register:- Every 
application under sub -section ( 5) of section 38 of the Act 
for the variation of any particulars entored in the register shall 
be in the form set out in tho Fourth Schedulc and whenany 
partculars are varied in the existing cerificate or registr 
shall be cancelled and a new certificate issued to the appli 
cant . 


- 


- - - 


Sec. 3 ( u ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2185 
WISH 
(9 ) Isgue of duplicate coples of certiGicates : - Any person 

5 . Address or addresses (if 
whose name is registered under those rulos may , on proof 

any) in India , other than 
by him that the original certificate of registration has been 

lemporary addresses while 
lost or dostroyed and on payment of a foc of rupees fivo , 

on tour, at which appli 
be given a duplicate copy of the certificate of registration 

cant trains or intends to 
which for the purposes of these rules shall have the same effect 

train perforining anim 
as the original certificate of registration . 

als. (If none, Write “ Nono" ) 
( 10 ) Copies of certiücates etc . to be sent to Anithal Welfare 

- - - - - - 
Board : — T ho prescribed authority shall cause a copy of every 

6 . State Whether previously 
certificate of rogistration or duplicate thçrçof a new certificato 

registered under the Por 
issued under these rules to be sent to the Animal Welfare 

forniing Animals Rules 
Board established under the Act, as soon as may be after 

1973. If so, state the num 
it is issued . 

ber and date of certificate 

of registration . 
FIRST SCHEDULE 

-- - - - - -- - 

- - - - - 
( See Rule 3) 

7 . (i) Kinds of performing 

animals proposed to be . To be tramed To be exhibited 
Form of Application 

Kind Number Kind Number 
I, the undersigned , do hereby apply for registration under 

( a ) tiained , 
the Peforming Animals Rules, 1973, and do hereby declare 
the following particulars to be true and complete to the 

(b ) exhibited , 
best ofmy knowledge and belief. 

Stating number of cach kind . Kind Number 
Signature 

( ii) Trained animals alrcady 
Date 

available for being 

exhibited . 
Address to which certificato 
of registration is to be sent 

8 . Describe briefly the gen 

eral nature of the perfor 
PARTICULARS 

mance of performances in 

which the performing 
1 . Full name of applicant 

aniinals are to be exhibited 
in block letters. 

oi for whcih they are to 

be trained , mentioning 
2 . State name ( if any ) 

any apparatus which is 
used in India 

used for the purpose of 
- - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - 

the performance . 
3 . Nationality 

- - - 

* The description inust be sufficient to give a general 
4 . Either ( a ) address of 

idca of what is done by the animals taking part in the poi 
ſixed place of residence in 

formance , and should stage the approximate duration of the 
India , or (b ) permanent 

porformance the number of times for which it is usually to 
postal address in India to 

be given in one and the same day , and the number of ani 
which letters addressed to 

mals of each kind taking part in the performance . It need 
the applicant may be 

not give details which would divulge any professional sec 
forwarded . 

ret. 
- - - - - - - 

SECOND SCHEDULE 

(Soo rule 5 ) 

Certificate of registration 
This is to Certify that the person to whoin the undermentioned particulars rolate 
has this day bocn registered under the Performing Animals Rules 1973, with the registration authority for 
thc 

Serial Number of Entry in 

in Register 
Name of Placo : 

Signature of Clerk of 
Date : 

registration authority , 
PARTICULARS 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


Namo of trainer Nationality 
of cxhibitor 


previ. 


Eithçi (a ) Address of fixed Address or addresses at Particulars of any 
Place of residence in India which the perforining US registration . 
or (b ) Permanent postal animals are to be trained . 
address in India to which 
letters addressed to the 
trainer or exhibitor may , 
be forwarded . 


Stato namo 
- - - - - - 


- - 


- 


-- - 

— 


- -- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


(2) 


- - - 
( 3 ) 


(4) - - _ - - 


( 4 ) 


- 


(5 ) 


- 


- -- 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


-- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


Description of general nature Date of Registration 

of performance 


Kind of Performing animals 
to be trained to be exhibited 
Kind No. Kind No. 

-- -- 
(6 ) 

- - - -- - - - - 


Particulars of any order 
of Court made under 
Soction 24 of the Preven 
tion of cruelty to animals 
Act, 1960 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 
- 


-- 
- 


----- - - - 


- 


(10 ) 


- - 


- -- - -- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


L 


2186 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[ PART II - - 


% 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


THIRD SCHEDULE 

( Soo rule 6) 
Form of register 


Sl. Name of trainor Nationality 
No. for exhibitor 


Address or addresses at which Particulars of any pre 
the performing 

vious registration . 
animals are to bo trained . 


Either (a ) Address of Axed 

place or rozidence in India or 
(b ) Permanent postal address in 
India to which lettors Ad dres 
se ] to the trainer or exhi. 
bitor may be forwarded . 


- 


- - - . 


____ - - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- --- - - 


___(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


- - -- - 


- - 


- - - - - 


- 


- - -- 


- -- - 


- - 


- 


-- 


Kind of Performing aniinals 


Description of genoral nature Date of registration . 

of performance . 


to be trained . 


to be exhibited . 


Particulars of any 

of Court made 
Section 24 of the 
tion of Cruelty to 
Act , 1960. 


order 
under 
preven 
animals 


Kind No . 


Kind No . 


- 


FOURTH SCHEDULE 


Forni of applications for variation of particulars entered 
in register. 

Application to have the particulars entered in the register 
with respect to the applicant varied . 


अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 
14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा (1) के खण्ड ( घ ) हमारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार, उक्त विषाद को 
उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार 
औद्योगिक अधिकरण , ( संख्या 2) धनबाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


To 


Tho Prescribed authority . 


अनुसूची 


Full name of applicant 

(in block letters ) 
Number and dato of certifi 
cate of registration 

I return herewith my certificate of registration linder tho 
Performing Animals Rules, 1973, and I hereby apply to 
have the particulars entered in the Register with respect 
to me varied , as follows, and for the reasons given below : 


" क्या नेशनल कोल डेवलपमेंट कारपोरेशन लिमिटेड, डाक 

घर बरमा, जिला हजारीबाग के स्थापनों में परिवहन 
ठेकेदारों के रूप में कार्य करने वाली मैसर्स जय ट्रंसपोर्ट 
कम्पनी के प्रबंधतंत्र की , निम्नलिखित कर्मकारों को 
30 सितम्बर, 1972 और आगे से काम न वने की कार 
वाई न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं , तो ये कर्मकार किस 
अनुतोष के हकदार है " ? " 


I also request that my existing certificato may be cancelled 
and a new certificate of registration may be issued to me. 


Date: : 


Signature 


Address 


_ . . 


- - -- - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


नाम 


- - - - - 
पदनाम 


NOTE : No ( ce is payable for the issue of a new certificate 
of registration. 

[ N0 . 35- 4/ 72 - LD- I] 

V . P . GULATI, 
Dpty. Secretary . 


चालक 
बालक 


चालक 


चालक 
पालक 


भम और पुनर्वास मंभालप 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 


. चालक 


आपेश 


चालक 
पालक 
चालक 


नई दिल्ली, 24 मार्च, 1973 
फा . आ . 1710. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बार में नेशनल काल 
मेवलपमेंट कारपोरेशन लिमिटेड डाकघर घरमा, जिला हजारीबाग 
के परिवहन ठेकेदार मैसर्स जय तंसपोर्ट कम्पनी, के प्रबंधतंत्र से 
सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक 
विवाप विस्यमान 


1. श्री धीरज 
2. श्री सर्सल 
3. श्री भोला 
4 श्री सुदान 
5. श्री चिने . 
6 . श्री पुनित 
7. श्री दुर्गा . 
8. श्री अशीन 
9 . श्री रामधारी 
10. श्री रामू . 
11. श्री सपेश्वर 
12. श्री रघुनाथ 
13. श्री मो० खान 
14. श्री रामानन्द सिंह . 
15. श्री सुकर 
16. श्री भुमनेश्वर सिंह . 
17. श्री चोदु सिह 
18. श्री हीरामन सिह . 
- - . . 


चालक 
चालक 
चालक 


चालक 


चालक 


चालक 


चालक 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्स विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है , 


चालक 
चालक 


- 


- . 


- -- - 


- 


_ 


SEC. 3 ( i ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2187 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


नाम 


पवनाम 


Names 


Designation 


- - - - - - . - - 


- - - -- -- -- - - -... . . 


चालक 
चालक 


चालक 


चालक 


. 


. 


चालक 
पालक 


. 


. 


चालक 


चालक 


. 


. 


. 


19. श्री बुधन . 
20. श्री बंगाली शर्मा 
21. श्री टुनटुन 
22. श्री मद्री . 
23. श्री तोता . 
24. श्री भोला 
25. श्री काल . 
26. श्री जानकी 
27. श्री सिकारी सिंह 
28. श्री अमीन 
29. श्री बाबु साल 
30. श्री जगदीश 
31. श्री कयूम . 
32. थी फार . 
33. श्री ब्रिक्ष . 
3 4. श्री बुधन . 
35. श्री वीनू . 
36. श्री महमूद 
37. श्री रमेश . 
38. श्री बंगाली 
39. श्री काशी 
40. श्री इन्दू . 
41 श्री भोला 
42. श्री शमित पादो 
43. श्री बिगन 
44. श्री नागेश्वर 
45. श्री सूरजदेव 
46. श्री नाबा . 
47. श्री गोबर्धन 


. 


. 


चालक 
खलासी 
खलासी 
खलासी 

खलासी 
. खलासी 

खलासी 
खलासी 

खलासी 
. खलासी 

खलासी 
खलासी 
खलासी 
खलासी 
खलासी 

खलासी 
. खलासी 

खलासी 

खलासी 
. खलासी 

सालासी 


. 


1. Shri Dheraj 
2 . Shri Sarsul 
3. Shrl Bhola 
4 . Shri Sudan 
5 . Shil Chine 
6 . Shri Punit 

. . . 
7. Shri Durga . 
8. Shri Ashin . 

. . . 
9 . Shri Ramdhari 
10 . Shri Ramu 

. . 
11 . Shri Tapeshwar 
12. Shri Raghunath 
13 . Shri Md . Khan 
14. Shri Ramanad Singh . . 
15. Shri Suker , , 
16. Shri Bhubaneshwar Singh 
17 . Shri Chotu Singh . 
18. Shri Hiraman Singh . 
19. Shri Bhudan . . 
20. Shri Bangali Sharma . 
21 . Shri Tun Tun . . 
22. Shri Badri 
23 . Shri Tota 
24 . Shri Bhola 
25. Shri Karu 
26. Shri Janki 
27. Shri Sikari Singh 
28 . Shri Amin 
29 . Shri Babulal . 
30. Shri Jagdish . 
31 . Shri Kaum 
32 . Shri Karu 
33 . Shri Briksha 
34 . Shri Budhan . 
35, Shri Dinoo 
36 . Shri Mahmood 
37 . Shri Ramesh . 
38 . Shri Bangali . 
39 . Shri Kashi 
40 . Shri Indoo 
41. Shri Bhola 

. . . 
42 . Shri Shakti Pado 
43 . Shri Bigan . 
44 . Shri Nageshwar 
45. Shri Surajdeo . 
46 . Shri Nabu 
47. Shri Gobardhan 


Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Khalesi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


- 


- 


- . - - 


- 


. 


- 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


[संख्या एल० 2001 2/ 158/ 72-एल० प्रार०- 2] 
MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 24th March , 1973 
S. O . 1710 --- Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that an industrial dispute exists between the employors in To 
lation to Messrs Jay Transport Company, Transport Contractor 
of National Coal Development Corporation Limited , Post 
Office Bermo, District Hazaribagh and their workmen in res 
pect of the matters specified in the schedule hereto annexed ; 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 
. 


i. 


AND WHEREAS the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 


NOW , THEREFORE, in cxercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub -section (1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal (No . 2 ) Dhantad constituted under 
section 7 of the said Act . 


[ No . L - 20012/158/ 72 -LRII ] 

आवंश 

नई दिल्ली, 29 मार्च, 1973 
का . आ . 1711. -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपामध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के आर में नेशनल 
अंगारपाथरा कोलियरी, डाकघर कतरासगढ़ , जिला धनबाद के 
प्रबन्ध संत्र से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक 
औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है " , 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of management of Messrs Jay 
Transport Company engaged as Transport Contractors in 
the establishments of National Coal Developinent Cor 
poration Limited , Pust Office Hermo, District Hazaribagh , 
in refusing work to the following workinen from the 30th 
September , 1972 onwards is justified ? If not, to what relief 
are these workmen entitled ? " 


__ और गतः, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विमाद को न्यार्यानर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है , 


- 


न् 


2188 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

[ PART II . 
. . . - - - - - - ---- - - - - - -- - - - 
असः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 (1047 का 

अनुसूची 
14) की धारा 10 की उपधारा (1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्सियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को 

1. क्या सिंगरनी कीलयरीज कम्पनी लि . रामागुण्डम मंडल के 
उक्त अधिनियम की धारा क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार 

टरयाइन ड्राइवरों की . इंजिनों की सफाई का काम करने 
औद्योगिक अधिकरण ( संख्या-2 ) धननाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 

के लिए अलग इंजिन क्लीनरों की नियुक्ति की मांग 
लिएनिशिस करती है । 

न्यायोचिस है और यदि हां , तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष 

के और किस तारीख में हकदार है ? 
अनुसूची 

2. क्या सर्वश्री नारायण रेड्डी, राममोहन राव , जे . मनोहर राय , 
" क्या नैशनल अंगरपाथरा कालियरी, डाकघर कतरासगढ़ जिला 

अं . विट्टल राव , के. सत्यनारायण , डी मल्लेश , शंख 
भनषाद के प्रबन्धतंत्र की श्रीमती माल्सी कामिन को 9 

हु ,सन और ए. सत्यनारायण मूर्ति , 18 एम . डब्ल्यू . पावर 
अगस्त , 1972 से काम से रोकने की कार्रवाई न्यायोचित 

हाउस , रामागण्डम मंडल , सिंगरनी कलियरीज कम्पनी 
ह ? यदि नहीं , तो सम्बन्धित कर्मकार किस अनुतोष 

लि . में वाटर ट्रीटमेंट एटेण्डण्टों और वाटर सॉफटनर 
की हकदार है ? " 

एण्डटों की , 19 नवम्बर, 1988 अथवा उस तारीख से , 

जिसको वे परिवीक्षा पर रखे गये , कोयला मजदुरी बोर्ड 
[ सं . एल.- 2012( 164 ) / 72- एल . आर.-2 ] 

की सिफारिशों के वर्ग-3 में रखे जाने की मांग न्यायो 

चित्य है ? यदि हां , तो उक्त कर्मकार किस अनुप्ताष 
ORDER 

के और किस तारीख से हकदार है ? 
New Delhi, the 29th March , 1973 

3. क्या यूनियन की , सिंगरनी कोलियरीज कम्पनी लि . के 
S . O . 1711 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 

सभी बदली कर्मकारों को सर्वतन राष्ट्रीय और त्योहारी 
relation to the management of National Angarpatbra Colliery 

छट्टियां मंजूर करने की मांग न्यायोचित है ? यदि 
Post Office Katrasgarh , District Dhanbad , and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in tho Schedule hereto 

हां , तो उक्त कर्मकार किस अनुतोष के हकदार है ? 
annexed ; 

4. क्या सिंगरेनी कोलियरीज कंपनी लि ., रामागण्डम मंडल 
And whereas the Central Government considers it desira 

( आन्धू प्रदेश ) के बदली कोल फिल्लरों की , उनको 
ble to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

प्रोत्साहन बोनस स्कीम के अन्तर्गस लाने की मांग न्याया 
Now , therefore , in cxercise of the powers conferred by 

चित है ? यदि हां , तो उक्न बदली फिल्लर किस अन, 
clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial 

सांघ के और किस तारीख से हकदार है ? 
Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 

5. क्या श्री बी . मनमन्था राव , अध्यक्ष , सिंगरनी 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) Dhanbad constituted 
under section 7A of the said Act. 

कोलियरीज कम्पनी लिमिटेड, की इन्कलाइन संख्या 

3, गोदावरीखानी की , उनके द्वारा निष्पादित कार्या 
SCHEDULE 

की प्रकृति का विचार करते हुए मजदुरी बोर्ड के 180-5 
" Whether the action of management of National 
Apgarpathra Colliery , Post Office Katrasgarh , 

210-7-273 रु. के वेतनमान की मांग न्यायोचित है ? 
District Dhanbad , in stopping Shrimati Malti Kamin 

यदि हां तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष के और किस तारीख 
with effect from the 9th August , 1972 from work 

से हकदार है ? 
is justified ? If not , to what relief is the concerned 
workman entitled ? " 

[ सं . एल- 21011 / 1 / 72 - ल . आर.-21 
[ No . L. 2012( 164)/ 72-LRIL ] 

ORDER 
आवश 

New Delhi, the 9th April , 1973 
नई दिल्ली , 9 अप्रैल , 1973 

S . O . 1712.- - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 

that an industrial dispute exists between the cmployers in 
का . आ . 1112. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससं उपा 

relation to the management of Singarchi Collierics Company 
बद्ध अनुसूची में विदिष्ट विषयों के बारे में सिंगरनी कोलियरीज 

Limited , Ramagudium Division , Post Office Godavarikhani 

(Andhra Pradesh ), and their workmen in respect of the 
कम्पनी लि ., रामागण्डम मडल , डाकघर गांदीयारी खानी ( आन्ध्र प्रदेश ) matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 
के प्रबन्धतंत्र से सम्बद्ध नियांजको और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच 

And whereas the Central Government considers It desira 
एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है , 

ble to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के section 7A and clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of 

the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ), the Cential 
लिए निर्देशित करना बांछनीय समझती है । 

Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 

Shri T . Narasinga Rao , as Presiding Oflicer with headquarters 
अतः, अब औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 at Afzal Lodge , Tilak Road, Ramkote , Hyderabad - 1 , and 

refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial 
का 14 ) की धारा 7- क और धारा 10 को उपधारा ( 1) के खण्ड ( घ ) 

Tribunal . 
स्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार, एक 
आयोगिक अधिकरण गठित करती है जिसके पीठासीन अधिकारी 

SCHEDULE 
श्री टी . नरसिंगाराव होंगे , जिनका मख्यालय अफजल लौज , निलक 

1. Whether the demand of the Turbine Drivers of 

Sinfarcni Collieries Company Limited, 
रोड, रामकोट , हैदराबाद- होगा और उक्त यिनाद को उक्त 

Ramagundain Division for appointment of separato 
औद्योगिक अधिकरण को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित 

Engine Cleaners for doing the job of cleaning 

engines , is justified and if so to what relief the 
करती द्वै । 

workmen are entitled to and from what date ? 


SEC . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTUA 26 , 1895 

2189 
- -- - - -- -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - .. . - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - - --- - - - --- - - - - - -- - - - - -- 
2 . Whether the demand of Sarvashri Narayan Reddy , 

ORDER 
Rammohan Rao, I . Monohar Rao, J . Vittal Rao 
K . Satyanarayana , D . Mallesh , Shaik Hussain and 

New Delhi, the 26th April, 1973 
A . Satyanarayana Murty , Water Treatment Atten 
dants and Water Softner Attendants in 18 M . W . 

s . o . 1713.. - Whereas the Central Government is of opi 
Power House , Ramagundam Division , Singareni non that an industrial dispute exists between the cmployeis 
Collicries Company Limited, for placing them in in relation to the management of Duman Hill Collicry on 
Category-IT of Coal Wage Board Recommendations National Coul Developincnt Corporation Limited , Post Office 
with effect from the 19th November, 1968 or thic Sonawani, District Surguja (Madhya Pradesh ), and their 
date on which they were placed on probation , ig workmen in respect of the matters specific in the Schedule 
justified ? If so to what clief the said workmen hereto annexed ; 
are ontitled to and from what date ? 

And whereas the Contial Government considers it desir 
3 . Whether the demand of the union for grant of paid able to refer the said dispule for adjudication ; 

National and Festival Holidays to all Badli work 
men of Singarenl Collieries Company Limited is Now , theicforc, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
justified ? If so , to what relief are the said work . clausc ( d ) of sub -sectiun ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial 
men entitled ? 

Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) , the Central Government 

hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to thc Indust 
4 . Whether the demand of badli Coal fillers of rial Tribunal, Jabalpur , constituted under section 7A of the 

Singarcni Collieries Company Limited , Ramaguindani said Act . 
Division (Andhra Pradesh ) for covering them under 
the Incentive Bonus Scheme is justificd ? If so , to 

SCHEDULE 
what relief are the said Badli Allers entitled to and 
from what date ? 

Whether the management of Duman Hill Colliery of 

Messis Nationul Coal Development Corporation 
5 . Whether the demand of Shri B . Hanumantha Rao , 

Limited , Post Office Sonawani, District Surguja 
Chairman , Godavarikhani No . 3 Incline of 

(Madhya Pradesh ) , was justified in terminating the 
Singareni Collieries Company Limited for the Wage 

services of Shri Baijnath son of Shri Rodha, Catc 
Board Scale of Rs. 180 - 5 - - 210 - 7 - 273 , consider . 

gory - 1 Mazdoor with effect from the 13th April , 
ing the nature of duties performed by him , is 

1970 ? If not , to what relief the workman is en 
justified ? If so , to what relief is the workman 

titled ? 
entitled to and from what date ? 

[ No. I./ 22012/ 25/ 72-I RI .] 
[ No. L / 21011/ 1 /72- LRII.] 


आदेश 


नई दिल्ली, 27 अप्रैल, 1973 


आदेश 

नई दिल्ली, 28 अप्रैल , 1973 
का . आ . 1713. – यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में नेशनल कोल 
झवेलपमेंट कारपोरेशन की दमन हिल कोलियरी डाकघर सोनावनी, 
जिला सरगुजा (मध्य प्रदेश ) के प्रबन्धतंत्र से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों 
और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक औदयोगिक विवाद विद्यमान 


का . आ . 1114. यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इसस 
उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विदिष्ट विषयों के बारे में सेन्ट्रल बैंक 
आफ इण्डिया से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच 
एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है , 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है । 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है ; 

अत्तः , अब औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 (1947 का 
14) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोगा करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद 
को अधिनियम की धारा क के अधीन गठित आयोगिक 
अधिकरण जबलपुर को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती 


अतः, अब, औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 (1947 का 
14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रस्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को 
उक्त अधिनियम , की धारा 7-क के अधीन गठित औद्योगिक अधि 
करण , दिल्ली को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्दशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 


" क्या संन्ट्रल बैंक आफ इंडिया के प्रबन्धतंत्र की , श्री एस . के. 

मेरी, लिपिक , सिविल लाइन्स ब्रांच , अमृतसर को 24 
नवम्बर, 1969 , को ओर से विशेष सहायक के रूप में 
काम करने का अवसर न देने की कार्रवाई न्यायोचित 
है ? यदि नहीं , तो वह किस अनुतोष का हकदार 


अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स नेशनल कॉल हवेलपमेंट कारपोरेशन लिमिटेड 

की दमन हिल कोलियरी, डाकघर सोनावनी, जिला सर 
गजा ( मध्य प्रदेश ) के प्रबन्धतंत्र का श्री बैजनाथ पुत्र 
श्री राधा, प्रवर्ग-1 मजदर, की सेवाओं को 13 अपल , 
1970 रो समाप्त करना न्यायोचिप्त था ? यदि नहीं , तो 
कर्मकार किस अनुसाष का हकदार है ? " 


[ सं . एल . 12012 /173 / 72- एल . आर.-3 ] 


ORDER 
New Delhi, the 27the April , 1973 


[ संख्या एल / 22012/ 25/ 72-एल. आर.-2 ] 


S . O . 1714 .-— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that an industrial dispute exists betwçen the employers in 
relation to the Central Bank of India and their workmen in 


[ PART II 
- - - - - -- - - - - - - 


- 


2190 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 
- -- .. .. - - - - - - - ---- - - -- - -- -- - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - . . .- : -... - - - - - - - - --- 
respect of the mattor specifled in the Schedule horeto 

ORDER 
annexod ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desii 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 


CCI 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (d ) of sub -section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal , Delhi constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 


S . 0 . 1715. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to Quarries Nos . 3A and 2D by Messrs . Prabhu 
Dayal Aggarwalla , Managing Contractors at Kedla Colllery, 
Post Oflice Kedla, District Hazaribagh and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 


SCHEDULE 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desis. 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 


"Whether the action of the management of Central 

Bank of India in denying the chance to work as 
Special Assistant to Shri S . K . Berry , Clork , Civil 
Lines Branch , Amritsar on and from the 24th 
November, 1969 is justified ? If not , to what relief 
is he entitled ? " 

[ No. L. 12012 / 173 / 72-LRIII.] 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause ( d ) of sub- section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial 

Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, ( No. 2), Dhanbad, constituted under section 
7A of the said Act. 


आवेरा 


SCHEDULE 


का . आ . 1116. यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में केदला 
कोलियरी, डाकघर कंद ला , जिला हजारीबाग में मैसर्स प्रभुदयाल 
अप्रवाल , प्रबन्ध ठेकेदारों की क्वारी संख्या 3ए और 2ही से 
सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक आयोगिक 
विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


Whether tho stoppage from work without payment of 

any wages or compensation to the workmen employ 
ed in quarries nos . 3A and 2D by Messrs . Prabhu 
Dayal Agarwalla, Managing Contractors at Kedia 
Colliery, Post Office Kedla , District Hazaribagh 
from the 23rd August , 1971 onwards is justified ? 
If not, to what relief are the workmen concerned 
entitled and for what porlod ? 

[ No. L / 20012 / 20/ 72- LRII ] 


और यत: केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिएनिशित करना वांछनीय समझती है , 


आदेश 


नई दिल्ली, 5 मई, 1973 


___ अतः, अब, औक्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 
14) की धारा 10 की उप -धारा ( 1) के खण्ड (घ ) 
वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
विवार को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा क के अधीन गठित 

औद्योगिक अधिकरण , (संख्या 2) धनवार को न्यायनिर्णयन से 
लिएनिशत करती है । 


का०मा० 1716.-- - यत: इससे उपाय अनुसूची में विनिर्विष्ट 
प्रौद्योगिक विवाद श्री नारायण राय कुदूर , पीठासीन अधिकारी , प्रौद्योगिक 
अधिकरण , बंगलौर के समक्ष लम्बित है ; 


अनुसूची 
क्या कंदला कालियरी, डाकार केवला, जिला हजारीबाग में 

मैसर्स प्रभुदयाल अग्रवाल प्रबन्ध ठेकेदारों की क्वारी 
संख्या 3ए और 2ही में नियोजित कर्मकारों को बिना 
किसी मजदूरी अथवा प्रतिकर की अदायगी के 29 
अगस्त , 1971 और आगे से काम को ना रोक दना न्यायाचित 
है ? यदि नहीं , तो फर्मकार किस अनुतोष के और किस 
अवधि के लिए हकदार है ? 

[ संख्या एल ./ 20012/ 20/ 72-एल. आर.-2 ] 


और यत: श्री नारायण राय कुडूर की सेवाएं प्रम उपवलम्य नहीं 
रही । 
___ अत , अब , प्रौद्योगिक विषाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) 
की धारा 7-क और धारा 3 उख की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार, एक प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण गठित 
करती है जिसके पीठासीन अधिकारी श्री बी० एन० जयदेवप्पा होंगे ; 
जिनका मुख्यालय बंगलौर होगा , और श्री नारायणराम फुदूर से उक्त 
वियाव से सम्बन्ध कार्यवाहियों को वापस लेती है और उसे उक्त विवाद 
के निपटान के लिए उक्स प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , बंगलोर को इस निदेश 
के साथ अन्तरित करती है कि उक्त अधिकरण कार्यवाहियों में पागे 
उसी प्रक्रम मे कार्यवाही करेगा जिस पर वे उसे अन्तरिस की गई है 
और विधि के अमुमार उसका निपटान करेगा । 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2191 


- - - 


- 


- -- - 


- - 


- - - - - - - 


- 


- - - 


__ अनुसूची 


- 


- - 


- , 


- 


- 


और यसः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना पांछनीय समझती है , 


- - 


- 


क्रम स० विषाव के पक्षकार 

निवेश म० प्रौर तारीख 
- - - 
1 . कनारा मैकिंग कार्पोरेशन मगलौर (निर्देश सं० 5/ 69 ( केन्द्रीय ) सं० 
के कर्मकार और प्रवन्धतन्त्र 23/ 87/ 69/ एल प्रार० 3, तारीख 

17 दिसम्बर, 1969 ) 
2 प्रीमियर इंश्योरेंस कार्पोरेशन (निर्देश सं० 3/ 70-( केन्द्रीय ) सं० 
लिमिटेड के कर्मकार और प्रबन्ध 40/ 15/ 70- एल० भार ० 1, तारीख 

15 मई , 1970 ) 
3. मैसूर भायरन एण्ड स्टील (निर्देश स० 6/ 71-( केन्द्रीय ) सं० 

लिमिटेड, भद्रावती के कर्मकार एल० 29011/ 14/ 71-एल० पार . 
और प्रमन्धतन्त्र 

4 तारीख 22/ 24 जून , 1971 ) 


अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम, 1947 (1047 का 
14 ) की धारा 7-क और धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार, एक 
औद्योगिक अधिकरण गठित करती है , जिसके पीठासीन अधिकारी 
श्री एस. एच . जे . नकवी होंगे, जिनका मुख्यालय कानपुर होगा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्स अधिकरण को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए 
निशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 


4 . विजय बैंक लिमिटेड के कर्मकार स० एल० 1201 2 19 73 एल० 
और प्रबन्धातन्त 

पार० 3 तारील 21 मार्च, 1973 
[सं० एल० 12025/ 15/ 73 -एल०भार० 3] 


" क्या पंजाब नेशनल बैंक के प्रबंधतंत्र की , सर्वश्री लक्ष्मी चन्द 

मिश्र और अवध नारायण अवस्थी को , जो बैंक के 
नयागंज , कानपुर वाली शाखा के अधीनस्थ कर्मचारिवन्ध 
के सदस्य है , लिपिकीय काडर में स्थानापन्न अवसर 
देने से इंकार करने की कार्रवाई न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं , 
तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष के हकदार है । " 

[ सं , एल . 12012 /18 / 73-एल . आर. 3 ] 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


ORDER 


ORDFR 
New Delhi , the 5th May, 1973 
s . o . 1716 -- Whereas the Industrial disputes specified in the 
Schedulc hercto annexed is pending before Shri Naryan Rai 
Kudoor, Presiding Officer , Industrial Tribunal , Bangalore : 

And whereas the services of Shri Naryan Rai Kudoor 
have ccused to be available ; 


New Delhi, the 7th May, 1973 
S. O . 1717 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that an industrial disputo exists between the employers in 
relation to the Punjab National Bank and their workmen in 
respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it degir 
Able to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 


Now , Thcrofore, in cxorcise of the powers conferred by 
section 7 - A and sub- soction (1 ) of section 33B of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ), the Coatral Government hereby 
constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri B . N . Jayadevappa 
as the Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Bangalore, with 
draws the procedings in rolation to tho said disputes from Shri 
Naryan Rai Kudoor and transfer the same to the said Industrial 
Tribunal, Bangalore , for the disposal of the said proceedings 
with tho direction that the sald Tribunal shall proceed with the 
proceedings from the stage at which they are transferred to it 
and dispose of the samo according to law . 


Now , therefore , in exercise of tho powers conferred by 
section 7- A and clause ( d ) of sub- section ( 1 ) of section 10 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri S . H . J . NAqvi shall be the Presiding Officer , with head . 
quarters at Kanpur and refers the said dispute for adjudica 
tion to the said Tribunal. 


SCHEDULE 


SCHEDULE 


Si. 
No . 


Parties to the dispute 


Reference No, and date 


1. Workimen and the manage - 

ment of Canara Banking 

Corporation, Mangalore. . 
2 . Workmen and the Manage- 

ment of Premier Insurance 

Co ., Ltd . 
3. Workmen and tho Manage - 

ment of Mysore Iron & 
Steel Ltd ., Bhadravathi, 


" Whether the action of the managemont of Punjab 

National Bank in denying officiating chances on 
clerical cadro to Sarvashri Laxmi Chand Misra and 
Awadh Narain Awasthi, mombers of subordinato 
staff of Nayagan ), Kanpur Branch of the Bank is 
justified ? If not , to what relief are the workmen 
entitled ? " 

[ No. L . 12012 / 13 / 73 / LRIII.] 


Ref . No. 5 / 69 ( Central) 

No . 23/ 87/ 69 / LRIII dated 
the 17th December, 1969 . 
Ref . No . 3 / 70 -( Central) No. 
40 / 15/ 70 /LRI dated the 
15th May , 1970 . 
Ref . No. 6/ 71 ( Central) 
No. L . 29011/ 14 /71-LRIV 
dated 22 /24th June, 

1971 . 
No . L 12012/ 19/ 73/ LRIII 
datod the 21st March , 
1973 . 


आदेश 


4. Workmen and the manage- 

ment of Vijaya Bank Ltd . 


नई दिल्ली, 14 मई , 1973 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


A 


[ No. L.12025 /15 / 73 / LRII] 


आवश 


का आ . 1718. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की साय है कि इससे 
उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषय के बारे में साउथ इण्डियन 
बैंक लिमिटेड से सम्बन्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के 
बीच एक आयोगिक विवाद विद्यमान है , 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है , 


नई दिल्ली, 7 मई , 1973 


मा . आ . 1117. - यतः केन्द्रीय सकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विििवष्ट विषयों के मारे में पंजाब 
नैशनल बैंक से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनक कर्मकारों के बीच 
एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है , 
31 GI / 73 - 9 


असः, अष , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 (1947 का 
14 ) की धारा एक और धारा 10 की उप -धारा (1) के खण्ड ( घ ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार 


2192 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[ PART II — 


एक औद्योगिक अधिकरण गठित करती हैं , जिसर्फ पीठासीन 
अधिकारी थिरू जी . गोपीनाथ होंगे, जिनका मुख्यालय मद्रास 
होगा और उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिकरण को न्यायनिर्णयन 
tetet the Teret afen 


On behalf of Workmen - Shri B . S . Azad , Secretary , 

Khan Shramik Congress. 
State: West Bengal 

Industry : Coal Mine . 


AWARD 


अनसूची 
" क्या बैंक की काटायम शाखा के श्री पी. पी . टामस , अस्थायी 

ht, 7 tatert mit arta 14 FIET, 1972 # 
समाप्त करने संबंधी प्रबन्धतंत्र की कार्रवाई न्यायोचित 
है ? यदि नहीं , तो वह किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ! " 

[ T . ST . 12012 / 42 / 73 -571. 3 . 3 ] 


By Order No. L / 19012 / 37 /72 -LRII, dated the 27th Sep 
tember , 1972, the Government of India , in the Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Em 
ployment), referred the following industrial dispute existing 
between the employers in relation to the management of 
Jaipuria Kajora Collieries of Messrs Swadishi Mining and 
Manufacturing Company Limited and their workmen , to this 
Tribunal, for adjudication , namely : 
" Whether the management of Jaipurin Kajora Colliery 

of Messrs Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing 
Company Limited Post Office Andal, District 
Burdwan , are justified in refusing cmployment to 
Shri Makar Dome, Shalo Picker with effect from 
the 27th January, 1972 ? If not, to what relief is 
the workman entitled ? " 


ORDER 


New Delhi, 14th May, 1973 
S . O . 1718 .-- - Whereas the Central Government is of opi 
nion that an industrial dispute exists between the employers 
in relation to the South Indian Bank Limited and their 
workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 


And, whereas the Central Government considers it dest 
rable to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by 
Kection 7A , and clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 10 , 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , tho 
Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tri 
bunal of which Thiru G . Gopinath shall be the Presiding 
Officer , with headquarters at Madras and refers the said 
dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 


" Whether the action of the management in terminating 

the services of shri P . P . Thomas, tomporary peon 
at Kottayam branch of the Bank with effect from 
the 14th August, 1972 is justified ? If not, to what 
relief is he entitled ?" 

(No. L . 12012 /42 / 73 / LRIIII 


New Delhi, the 5th Juno, 1973 


$ . O . 1719 , - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal Calcutta , in the industrial disputo 
between tho employers in relation to the management of 
Jaipuria Kajora Collicry of Messrs Swadshl Mining and 
Manufacturing Company Limited , Post Office Andal, District 
Burdwan and their workmen , which was received by the 
Central Government on thọ 29th May, 1973 . 


2 . The management is now represented by the Custodian 
of Jaipuria Kajora Moira Group of Collicrics and the work 
men by the General Secretary of Khan Shramik Congress , 
And both have arrived at a compromise relating to the dis 
pute referred to for adjudication by this tribunal. The terms 
of the compromiso are fair , equitable and beneficial to the 
interest of both the parties. Therefore , I record the tergis 
of compromiso as prayed for by both the parties and render 
an award in terms of the petition of compromise which shall 
form part of the award . 
Dated , May 21, 1973 . 

S . N . BAGCHI, Presiding Officer 
BEFORE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAI 

TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

Reference No . 57 of 1972 
Name of Partles : 
Representing Employors Shri J. Tobian , Custodian , Jal 

puria Kajora Colliery (Moira Group ) P . O . Andal, 

Dist. Burdwan . 
Representing workmen : 
Shri Banarsisingh Azad, General Secretary, Khan Shramik 

Congress, P. O . Ukhra, Dist. Burdwan . 

POINT PETITION OF COMPROMISE 
1. That Shri Makar Dome will be reinstated as shale 
Picker with effect from 21- 5 - 1973 at Jaipurla Kajora Col 
liery. 

2 . That there will be no claim for any back wages for 
the period of his un - employment. That his absence from 
27th January , 1972 will be treated as authorised absence . 

3. That this agreement resolves the present dispute fully 
and finally . 

4 . That the management will pay a sum of Rs. 100 / - as 
the cost of the proceedings to the General Secretary , Khan 
Sharmik Congress , Ukhra . 

5. That both the parties therefore pray that the Hon ble 
presiding Officer will be pleased to give an award in terms 
aforesaid . 

Representing the employers 
Custodian , Jaipurla Kajora 

Colliery , Moira Group . 
Witness: 

1. Sd /- Illegible. 
2 . Sd /- Illegible . 

Representing the workman 
General Secretary , Khan 
Shramik Congress , Ukhra . 

Sd /- Illegible. 
Moira Colllery , 
Dated , 19th May, 1973 . [No . L-19012 /37 /72-LR II.) 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

AT CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 57 of 1972 


Partles: 
Employers in relation to the management of Jaipuria , 

Kajora Collievics of Messrs Swadishi Mining and 
Manufacturing Company Ltd ., 


AND 


Their Workmen , 


Present : 

Sri S. N . Bagchi- -Presiding Officer, 


Appearancesi 
On behalf of Employers Shri M . P . Saraf, Administra 

tive Assistant. 


SEC . 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 2193 

Set - 

= 

- -- - - -- - - - - 
$ .0 . 1720 .--- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 

New Delhi, the 6th June, 1973 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern 

S. O . 1721. -- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the matter of an 

Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 

hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
application under Section 33A of the said Act, from Shri 
Tarjen Chritian , Fitter, Regd . No. 6733, Baragolai Colliery , 

bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Section 

33A of the said Act filed by Shri Ranjit Singh which was 
Post Office Baragolai, District Dibrugarh , Assam , which was 

received by the Central Government on 28- 5 - 1973 . 
roceived by the Central Government on the 29th May, 1973 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWANY, B .A . (Hons.) CANTAB 
AT CALCUTTA 

BAR -AT -LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL ), CHANDIGARH 
Miscellaneous Application No. 9 of 1972 

Complalnt No. 2 / 30 of 1972 
(Arising out of Reference No. 154 of 1966 ) 
Partles: 

under section 33- A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

Shri Ranjit Singh , T . No , 363- D , Carpenter, C / o . B . S . L . 
Sri Tarjon Christian , Fitter, Regd . No, 6733 , Baragola 

workers Union , Suadernagar . 

Complainant. 
Colliery, P . O . Baragolai, Dist. Dibrugarh , Assamı 

Applicant 


Vs. 


Vs. 


Management of Messrs Assam Railway und Trading 
Co . Ltd ., P . O . Margherita , Dist . Dibrugazh , Assam 

Opp. party 


Executive Engiucci , Harabagh Tunclling Division, 

B .S .L . Project, Sundernagar ( H .P .) Respondent. 
Appearances: 

Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar — for the complainant. 
Shri Ruttau Lal — for the respondent. 


AWARD 


Present : 

Sri S. N . Bagchi - Presiding Oilcer . 
Appearances : 

On behulf of Applicant- Absent. 
On behalf of Opp . party — Sri J. K . Ghosh , Advocate , 

with Sri S . P . Sen Gupta Advocate. 
State : Assain 

Industry: Coal Mine . 
AWARD 


This is an application under Section 33A of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947, flled by one Sri Tarjen Christian , 
Fitter, Regd . No . 6733 of Baragolai colliery against the 
management of Assam Railway and Trading Co . Ltd ., and 
it has arisen out of Reference No. 154 of 1966 which is 
pending adjudication beforo this tribunal. 


No: 61337 filed by Section 33 


Shui Ranjit Singh , who was employed as a carpenter with 
the respondent Executivo Engineer, has filed this com 
plainant under section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
1947, and has inter alia stated therein that he had proceeded 
on sanctioned leave from 12 - 8 - 1971, and as his wife fell 
seriously ill , he had sent a telegram for extension of leave 
and he again sent another telegram for extension of leave 
on 8 - 9 - 1971 as his wife did not recover, and that when he 
returned and roported for duty on 13- 9 - 1971, he was not 
allowed to join duty , even though he had submitted a 
medicul certificate and a certificate from Sarpanch of pan 
chayat in support of reasons given by him for getting his 
extended , and that even though reference No . 2 / C of 1971 , 
in which he was a concerned workman , was pending at the 
time when the respondent Executive Engineer declined to 
reinstate him with full back wages and did not allow him 
to resume duty , despite his filling an Appoal before the 
Superintending Engineer, B . S . L . Administration and Accounts 
Circle, Sundernagar , and in that way there has been contra 
vention of the provisions of section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947. 


management 


2 . On the date fixed for hearing of this application at 
the Camp Gauhati of which notice was duly served on the 
applicant the applicant did not turn up bcfore the tribunal. 
The Opposito party appeared and ſiled its rejoinder in duc 
time and was present on the date of hearing of the appli 
cation at Camp Gauhati. Unless the applicant workman 
preferring an application under Section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act complaining aguinst the management contra 
vention of the provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act during the pendency of it proceeding under 
Section 10 of the Act before a tribunal, presents himself 
before the tribunal to support such application and to prove 
the allegations against the management relating to specific 
contravention of the provisions of Section 33 of the Act, 
it shall bo presumed that the applicant s complaint against 
the management for alleged contravention of any provision 
of Section 33 of the Act has no basis . 


2 . In the reply put in by the respondont Executive En 
gineer, he has taken a preliminary objection that this com 
plaint was not maintainable as it was by way of a claim for 
payment of wages, and it did not lie before this Tribunal, 
that service conditions of the complainant had not been 
altered to his prejudice and that neither he had been dis 
charged nor dismissed from service. 


3 . So , this tribunal holds that there is no dispute in 
regard to the alleged contravention of any provision of 
Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act by the manage 
ment as complained of by the workman applicant. 


On merits it has been admitted that the complainant pro 
ceedod on leuve with effect from 12 - 8 - 1971 to 18 - 8 - 1971, 
but it has been denied that he had asked for extension of 
leave or took any steps to inform the respondent Executivo 
Engineer . It has also been stated that he could not given 
any satisfactory reason for remaining absent from duty for 
more than 10 days without seeking permission from tho 
competent authority , 


In the result, I render a no dispute award and reject 
the application under Section 33A of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act. 

This is my award . 
Dated , 21st May , 1973. 


that on an appeal having been filed by him , the Superin 
tending Engineer , Administration and Accounts Circle , Sunder 
nagar, on compassionate ground and duo to scarity of techni 
cal hands , hud allowed the complainant to join duty , but 
ordered the period of his absence from duty be treated as 
leave of the kind that was due to him , and that as per 
certified standing orders , he had not been removed from 
service but he was deemed to have voluntarily resigned and 
in view of clause (s ) of the certified standing orders his 
name having been removed from rolls for long absence from 
duty , without permission , 


Sd ) 
S . N . BAGCHI, Presiding Officer 

[No. L - 19025 / 16 / 73 - LR II.] 


2194 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[PART II — 


It is rather curlous that aftor having terminated the 
services of the complainant, who had submitted telegrams 
for extension of leave , he had not been informed about the 
orders he obviously could not be expected to return to 
icport for duty . This is all the more relevant when the 
Superintending Engineer in appcal passed orders that tho 
complainant should be allowod to resumo duty and he should 
apply for regularisation of service for the period of absence 
and added that ho was not entitled to back wages . This 
order is not consistant with the explanation furnished by 
the complainant or rational, and there appears no justifica 
tion for depriving the complainant of wages for the period 
of involved and adversely effecting his increment , while keep 
ing in view the statement made by the authorised represen 
tative of the respondent Executive Engincer that if leave 
without pay were to be given , his date would be deferred 
to that extent. 


Since by passing the orders compluined of, the service 
conditions of the complainant have been adversely effected 
and the order is not justified , it is held that the complainant 
is entitled to regularisation of service and also to payment 
of wages for the period in question , and award is given 
accordingly . 


Dated , 16th April, 1973 . 

P . P . R . SAWANY , Presiding Officer 

[No. I . 42012 / 1 / 73 / LRII.) 


$ . O . 1722 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputos Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Soction 
33A of the said Act Alled by Shri Jabdoo which was re 
ceived by the Central Government on 28 - 5 - 1973 . 


3 . No written rejoinder was Aled hy the complainant , but 
he verbally reitcrated the position taken by him in the 
complaint, and refuted the stand taken by the respondent 
Executive Engineer in his reply to the complaint. 

4 . On the pleadings of the parties, the following issues 
wcro framed : - - 
Preliminary Issues: 
( 1 ) Whether the instant complaint is not maintainable 

for tho reason as stated by the respondent that the 
complaint being a claim for payment of wages for 
a certain period , docs not lio before this Tribunal 
and that the proper forum is the Payment of 

Wages Authority ? 
(2 ) Whether the complaint is bad in law inasmuch as 

according to the respondent there has neither been 
any alteration or a chango in the terms and condi 
tions of service to the prejudice of the com 
plainant during the pendency of industrial dispute 
which had been referred to this Tribunal for ad 
judication , as he was neither discharged from ser 
vice nor dismissed , and the provisions of scution 

33 - A are not attracted ? 
On merlts: 
Whether there has been any contravention of the pro 

visions of section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 194 ) as claimed by thợ complainant and his 
name had been removed from service without ob 
taining prior approval from the Tribunal before 

whom reference No. 2 / C of 1971 was pending ? 
5 . Shri Ranjit Singh , complainant, hag examined himself 
as a witness as also Shri Mohinder Singh , bis authorised 
representativo, who has merely stated that reference No . 2 / C 
of 1971 was pending when the impugned action was taken 
against the complainant without securing prior permission 
from the Tribunal. 

Shri Ranjit Singh has more or less reiterated the stand 
taken by him in the complaint, and has placed on record 
telegrams that he had scnt, Exts . C / 1 and C / 2 , for securing 
extension of leave , and medical certificate, Ext. C / 3 , certi 
ficate of Sarpanch Ext. C / 4 , and orders passed by the 
Superintending Engineer, Ext. C / 5 , on his appeal, and has 
maintained that despite his having put in satisfactory docu 
montary material to show that he had duly applied for ex 
tension of leave, he had not been allowed to resume duty . 

6 . The respondent has examined Shri Rattan Lal, his 
authorised representative , as a witness , who has maintained 
that since Shri Ranjit Singh failed to report for duty after 
having been absent for more than 10 days , i.e . from 12 - 8 - 71 
to 4 - 9 - 71, without taking leave, his name was removed 
from the rolls and he was to be treated to have voluntary 
resigned as per orders passed by the Executive Engineer , 
Ext. R / 1. Ho has admitted that he had no document in 
his possession to show that the order , Ext. R / 1, had been 
communicated to the complainant, Shri Ranjit Singh , but 
has stated that since he had remained absent without taking 
leave for more than 10 days, his caso had been treated as 
that of voluntary resignation as per certificd standing orders . 
He has denied receipt of telegrams for extension of Icave , 
but has maintained that if leave without pay were to be 
granted to a workman , the date of increment would be 
deferred to that extent i.e . for the period involved . 

7 . It is not understandable why the respondent chose to 
tako the impugned action against the complainant after the 
complainant had proceedod on sanctioned leave and had 
applied for extension of Icave through telegrams on the 
ground of his wife s serious illness, and had produced certi 
ficate , Ext. C / 4 of Sarpanch , Strangely enough , the autho 
riscd representative of the respondent, for reasons best known 
to him , has chosen to deny receipt of the telegrams, though 
in the orders passed by the Superintending Engineer , Ext. 
C / 5 , he has referred to those telegrams sent for extension 
of leave by the complainant and has stated that since no 
intimation had been sent by the respondent Executive En 
gincer to the complainant about tho Orders having been 
passed about the telegramg 80 that the complainant could 
have come, and under these circumstances ho ( the Superin 
tonding Enginçer) considered that the punishment awarded 
to the complainant was heavy and that he bo given appoint 
ment, and for the back period he should apply to the con 
cerned authority for regularisation of his absence but that 
ho would not be entitled to any wages for the back period. 


BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWANY , B .A . (Hons) CANTAB 
BAR -AT-LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL), CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No. 2 /22 of 1972 
under section 33- A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Shri Jabdoo , Beldar, Token No. 322 -S , Jaral Colony 
Sub Division , Pandoh Township Complainant 

Vs. 
1. The Superintending Engincer, B . S , L ., Administra 

tion and Accounts Circle , Sundernagar Township . 
2 . The Executive Engincer , Construction Production 
Division , B . S . I.. Project, Pandoh Township , 

Respondents. 


Appearances 

Shri Mohinder Singh for the complainant. 
Shri Rattan Lal- for the respondents . 


AWARD 


Shri Jabdoo , beldar, had filed this complaint under sec 
tion 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . It has been 
inter alla stated in the complaint that the S . D . O ., who had 
charge- sheeted him , was not competent to do so , ns ho had 
the power to only suspend a workman for four days and 
he could not order any recovery from a workman and in 
Alict any punishment of recovery , and that since the impugned 
action had been taken during the pendency of reference No. 
2 / C of 1971, without securing prior permission from this 
Tribunal, there has been contravention of the provisions of 
soction 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 


2 . The allegation against the complainant, Shri Jabdoo . 
beldar , is that some parts of truck No. B . L .- 32 had been 
stolen during the night between 16th and 17th February , 
1971 , which had come about due to his negligence i.e . of 
Şhri Jabdoo . 


SEC . 3 ( i ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2195 


TAS 


- - 


Award is given accordingly . But the parties are left to bear 
their own costs . 


P . P . R . SAWANY , Presiding Officer 


3 . In the reply , that was Aled by the respondents , the 
following prellminary objections have been taken and on 
merita, it has been stated that after the charge- sheet had 
been framed, a proper and fair enquiry had been held con 
sistent with principles of natural justice , and that the com 
plainant had been provided with full opportunity to defend 
himself, that the impugncd action had been takon after care 
fully considering the facts on record, and that this action was 
justified and in order . 
Preliminury objections : 


[No. L . 42012 / 1 /73/ I. R III 


S . O . 1723 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of tho Industrial Tri 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of the a complaint under sec 
tion 33A of the said Act filed by Shri Krishan Lal which 
was received by the Central Government on 28th May , 
1973 . 


(i) That the complaint was not maintainable as the re 

covery / deduction from the wages had been ordered 
for the damage caused to the Government property, 
which was directly attributable to the neglect and 
default of tho workman , and the opposite parties 
were , therefore , well within their right to invoko 
the provisions of Section 7 ( 2 ) ( e ) of tho Payment of 
Wages Act, 1936 ? 


(2 ) That the applicant had neither been discharged 101 

dismisscd ſiom service and for that 1Cason 10 causc 
of action arose to the complainant to come to Indus 
trial Tribunal. 


BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWHNY , B .A . (HONS) CANTAB 
BAR -AT-LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL ( CENTRAL), CHANDIGARH . 

Complaint No. 2 /43 of 1972 
under section 33 - A of the Industrial Tribunal Dispules Act, 

1947. 
Shri Krishun Lal, Welder, Token No. 842 - C , 
C / o , B . S . L . Workers Union , Sundernagar , - Complainant 


4 . The complainant put in a rejoinder thereafter , challeng 
ing the correctness of tho pleas taken by the respondents by 
way of preliminary objections , 29 well as in respect of 
merits . 


Vs. 


5. On the pleadings of the parties, the following issues 
were framed : 


Executive Engineer , Pen — Stock Division , 
B .S .L . Project, Sundernagar Township . 


- - Respondent. 


Preliminary Issues : 


Appearances : 


Shri Mohinder Singh Togar -- for the complainant. 
Shri Rattan Lal -- for the respondent. 


( 1) Whether the complaint is not maintainable for the 

reasons as stated by the respondents that recovery 
in respect of deduction of wages ordered by the 
respondent Superintending Engineer in wages could 
be secured by invoking the provisions of section 
7 ( 2 ) ( e ) of the Payment of Wages Act , 1936 ? 


AWARD 


( 2 ) Whether the complainant had not been dismissed or 

discharged from service , and as such there was no 
cause of action which could be adjudicated upon by 
this Tribunal ? 


On merits : 
Whether the respondent, Superintendiny Enginçer was 

justified in awarding the punishment in ordering 
deduction of wages for the alleged damage caused 
to the respondent s property , which according to the 
respondent, Superintending Engineer was directly 
attributable to neglect and default of the com 
plainant ? 


Shri Krishan Lal, Welder, has filed this complaint under 
section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and has 
maintained therein that he held substantive temporary post 
and after he had completed throc months service satisfac 
torily , and he went to resport for duty, on 3 - 10 - 72 a notice 
was handed over to him to the effect that his service had 
been terminated with effect from 30 - 9 - 72 , which was in con 
travention of the certified standing for factory establishment 
that were applicable to him , and that his services had been 
terminated without payment of one month s advanco wages 
and without serving any chargesheet ets , and without obta 
ining prior permission from tho Tribunal before whom refc 
rence No: 2 / C of 1971 wag pending, and that there had 
bcon contravention of tho provisions of section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 


5 . Sincc thc parties did not wish to lead any evidence in 
respect of the preliminary isues , arguments of their authorised 
representatives were heard in that behalf. 


2 . The respondent in the roply to the complaint raised a 
preliminary objection that Shri Krishan Lal was employed 
for a specified period and that his service stood terminated 
without service of any notice . 


The impugned action that has been taken by the respondents 
is under section 7 ( 2 )( e ) of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 , 
and the complainant has not been dismissed or discharged 
from service for any action connected with the matters in 
dispute in reference No. 2 / C of 1971, which are as under : 


On merits , it has been stated that since Shri Krishan Lal 
had been employed on temporary basis, he should not be 
deemed to be a substantivo temporary employees, that clause 
17 of the certified standing orders was applicable to 
him , and that there was no necessity for getting prior per 
mission from tho Tribunal. 


( 1 ) Revision of pay scales of work -charged employees ; 
(2 ) Regularisation of the services of work -charged emp 

loyees ; 
(3 ) Accident and relrenchment compensation to employees 

drawing more than Rs. 500 per month ; 


3 . No written rejoinder was filed by the complainant, and 
instead his authorised representative verbally generally con 
troverted the pleas that had been raised by the respondent 
Executive Engineer in reply to the complaint and reiterated 
the stand taken by the complainant. 


( 4 ) Introduction of a gratulity scheme. 


4 . On the pleadings of the parties, the following issues 
were framed : 


6 , Section 7 ( 2 ) c ) of the Payment of Wayes Act, 1936 pro 
vider for 1ecovery of a loss , if any, sustained and it cannot 
be deemed to be a punishment as envisaged by section 33 - A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 . As such it is held 
that there has been no contiavention of the provisions of sec 
tion 33 of the Act and that respondents were justified in 
taking action against the complainant under Section 7 (2 )( e ) of 
the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 . 


Preliminary Issue : 
Whether the complaint is not maintainable as accord 

ing to the respondent, Executive Engineer , the com 
plainant had been engaged for a specified period 
after which his services stood terminated without 
service of any notice ? 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


sal. 


2196 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

PART II. .. . 
- - 

- - 
On merits 

respondents were not justified in harassing him in this man 
Whether there has been contravention of the provisions 

ner and transfering him from place to place , and in that 

way there had been contravention of the provisions of sec 
of section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, as alleged by the 

tion 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , 
complainant in his com 
plaint that he had been removed from service by 
the respondent Executive Engineer , without obtaining 

2 . In the reply filed to the complainant, a preliminary 

objection was taken that the complaint was not maintainablo 
permission from this Tribunal, when reference No : 

as neither conditions of service 
2 / C of 1971 was pending before this Tribunal? 

of the complainant 
had been changed , nor he had been awarded plinishment of 

Jismissal or discharge. 
Thereafter the complaint was fixed for the evidence of 
tho partics on 28 - 12 - 72 , but on that day , it was given out by 

In regard to merits , it has been maintained that the rça 
the parties that the dispute had been settled out of court . 
Accordingly statements of the authorised representatives of 

pondent was competent to order transfer the complainant 

within the project, in the interest of work , and that this Tri 
the parties were recorded . 

bunal had no jurisdiction to pass any orders in the matter 

of transfer of a workman , from one Division to another 
5 . Shri Rattan Lal, the authorised representative of tho 

within the Project, 
respondent, has stated that a decision had been taken to 
take back Shri Krishan Lal in service and to allow his con 

And that the complainant was not a protected workman as 
tinuity of scrvice , but that would be without payment of per provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and the 
Wages for thc period that he remained un -employed . 

rules framed thereunder, and the complainant desej ved dismis 
Shri Mohinder Singh , the authorised representative of the 
complaint after hearing the statement made by Shri Rattan 3. Subscquently an application was filed by Shri Sukhdev 
Lal has stated that since the dispute had been settled out of Raj In continuation of his complaint, dated 30th June, 1972 , 
court, tho complainant did not wish to pursue the complaint, stating therein that after his filing the complaint he was 
and that it may be disposed of as not having been pressed orderod to join duty at Pandob Dam Division , Pandoh by 
and withdrawn . 

the Personnel Officer, B . $. L . Project, Sundernagar vido his 

letter No . 5414 - 15 / Tribunal, dated 1 - 8 -72, but since there 
6 . Kcoping in view the statements made by the authorised was no mention in the order regarding his attendance from 
representatives of the parties, reproduced above , the com 23 -6 -72 to 3 - 8 -72, and also in regard to payment of wages , 
plaint is disposed of as not having been pressed and with suitable order be passed so that the respondent, Chief En 
drawn. 

ginccr may mark his attendance and pay to him wages for 

the aforesaid period , 
P . P . R . SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No. L 42012 / 1 / 73 /LR III 

The authorised repercseptaive of the respondent Chief 
Engineer has coucoded that the orders had been passed by 

the Chief Engineer, directing the complainant to join duty 
8 . 0 . 1724 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 

with effect from 1- 8 -72 at Pandob and in pursuanco thereof 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Governnicnt 

the complainant had joined duty . Ho hus , however , muin 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tribu 

tained that Tribunal could not tako cognizance of the dis 
nal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 

pute that had been raised in the complaint, i. e . for marking 
33A of the said Act filed by Shri Sukhdev Raj which was 

his attendance from 27 -6 - 72 to 3 - 8 -72 , and for payment of 
received by the Central Government on 28 -5 - 1973 . 

wagos for the said period , as the remedy that was open to 

the complainant was to approach tho Authority under the 
BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWHNY , B . A . (HONS ) CANTAB 

Payment of Wages Act. 
BAR - AT- LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL ), CHANDIGARH 

After hearing arguments on this application , the parties 

Wer provided with an opportunity to Icad evidence . 
Complaint No. 2 /23 of 1972 

4 . Shri Sukhdev Raj, complainant, has examined bimself 
under section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 

as his only witness , and reiterated that he was a protected 
Shri Sukhdev Raj, wolder , Token No: 619 - AH , 

workman and also what he had stated in his complaint re 
Pundoh Dam Division , Pandoh , 

- Complainant. 

garding transfer etc., having been treated like a shuttle cock , 

and about his presence having not been marked with effect 
Vs. . . . . 

from 26 -6 - 72 till 3 - 8 - 72 , when he received orders from the 

respondent Chief Engineer , Ext. C / 7 , directing him to rc 
The Chief Engincor, 

port immediately for duty to the Executive Engineer , Pandoh . 
Beas Sutlej Link Project, Sundernagar , - Respondent. 

The respondent as examined Shri Rattan Lal, his autho 
Appearances : 

rissed representative , as his only witness, who has maintain 
Shri Dhani Ram with the complainant, 

ed that Sukhdev Raj was not a protected workman ag en 
Shri Rattan Lal for the rospondent. 

visaged by tho Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , and added that 

Shri Sukhdev Raj had been transferred from one Division to 
AWARD 

Another Division in public interest. 
It has been Inter alia stated by Shri Sukhdev Raj in his 

5 . The complaint obviously does not lie and the appli 
complaint, 

cation subsequently given in pursuance thereof is also not 
that he was transferred from Communication Division 

maintainable in as much as it has not been made clear in 
No. 1 , Nangal Township , District Ropar , to Pandoh Dam 

the complaint iteself , or in the statement of Shri Sukhdev Raj 
Division , Mandi (H . P .) on 1 - 5- 1972 , 

as a witness that any industrial dispute was pending before 

Tribunal at tho relevant time or that he was in any way 
that he was again transferred from Pandoh Dam Division , connected with any such industrial dispute . 
Pandoh to Communication Division No. 1, Nangal Township 
on 11 - 5 - 72 , and was again sent back to Pandoh Dam Division 
Pandoh from the Communication Division No. 1 , Nangal 

The question of contravention of the provisions of scc 
Township 17 - 5 -72 , 

tion 33 could only arise provided an industrial dispute be 
found to be pending at the timo when the impugned action 

was taken , and thọ person against whom action had been 
that he was again transferred to Pandoh Dan Division 

taken , was connected with the dispute that may have been 
Pandoh , and then to Penstock Division , Slapper on 29 - 6 - 72 , 

pending . 
but the Executive Engincer , Penstock Division declined to 
take him on duty on 29 - 6 - 72 and he Apprehended that he On this ground alono the complaint as well as the subse 
may be transferred again within a few days just to harass quent application , dated 26 - 7 -72, deserve to be dismissed . It 
him , that he having been declared as a protected workman is, therefore , yönecessary to go into the question as to 
by tho B . S . L . Mazdoor Ekta Union ( Regd .) Pandoh , the whether Shri Sukhdev Raj is entitled to payment of wages 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


ETTE OF INDIA :JUNE 16, 1978/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


2197 


- 


2197 


the conditions of service applicable to the complai. 
nant immediately beforo the commcnccmcnt of pro 
ceedings in respect of the industrial dispute in 1c 
forence No. 2 / C of 1971, nor he had been dis 
charged nor dismissed from sorvice during the pen 
dency of the above stated reference, ponding be 
fore this Tribunal ? 


On merits 
Whether there had been any contrivention of the pro 

visions of section 33 - A of the Industrial Diapu 
tes Act, 1947 , as alleged by the complainant that 
the respondent Chief Engineer had ordered non 
payment of wages during the suspenstion period 
and stoppage of one increment during tho pendency 
of reference No. 2 / C of 1971, without first obta 
ining prior aprovel from the Tribunal ? 


5. The respondent has examined Shri Rattan Lal, his 
Authorised representative as tho only witness , and the com 
plainant has also examined himself as the solltary witnost . 

The complaint itself ghows that it is not maintainablo as 
there is no allegation that any industrial disputo was pen 
ding before this Tribunal, when the impugncd action was 
taken or that tho complainant was in any way concerned 
with any industrial dispute that might be peading at tho 
relevant time. 


The complainant, who has appeared as a witness , has 
also not statod anything in this behalf. That being so , tho 
quogtion of contravention of provisions of acction33- A of tho 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 obviously does not arise. 


This apart, the respondent had proceded to tako action 
which had been complained of , after appointing Shri Sat 
Narain as enquiry officer, and there is nothing on the re 
cord to show that the enquiry officer was in any way pre 
judiced against the complainant or that he did not held the 
enquiry in a fair and impartial manner or contravened the 
principles of natural justice . 


for the period 26 -6 -72 to 3 - 8 - 72 , when according to him his 
presence was not being recorded . Award is given according 
ly that the complaint and subsequent application are held 
not to be maintainable, but the parties are left to bear their 
own costs . 

P . P . R . SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 

(No. L . 42012 / 1 / 73 / LRIII ] 
S . O . 1725 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputo Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Section 
33A of the said Act filed by Shri Dilbagh Rai, which was 
received by the Central Government on 28 - 5 - 1973 , 
BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWHNY , B .A . (HONS.) ÇANTAB 
BAR -AT-LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL , CENTRAL CHANDIGARII 

Camplaint No. 2 / 24 of 1972 
Under Section 33- A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
Shri Dilbagh Rai, Token No : 580 - W , 
Electrical Division No. 3 , 
Sundernagar Townsbip . 

- - Complainant. 

Vo. 
Chief Engineer, 
Beas Sutlej Link Project, 
Sundernagar, ( H . P .). 

- --Respondent. 
Appearances; 

Shri Dhani Ram - - with the complainant. 
Shri Rattan Lal - for the respondent. 

AWARD 
Shri Dilbagh Rai has inter alia stated in the complaint 
that ho had been charge - shected for alleged manhandling 
Shri Sadha Ram , a co -worker, and on that account his sub 
sistanco allowance had not been paid to him during the 
period he remained suspcoded , and one year s annual in 
crement had been stopped on basis of the report submitted 
by the enquiry officer , and that there had been contravention 
of the provisions of section 33- A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 . 

2. In thc reply filed to the complaint, the following two 
preliminary objections were taken by tho respondent, Chief 
Engincer, and on merits it has been maintained that being 
dis -satisfied with the reply to the chargo -sheet submitted by 
the complainant, tho punishing authority appointed Shri Sat 
Narain , $ . D . O ., as enquiry officer to hold the enquiry 
in a fair and impartial manner consistant with the principlos 
of natural justice , 

that on his roport, the complainant was awarded the 
punishment complained of, the complainant went in appeal 
and the punishment was confirmed by the appellate autho 
rity , and that since the service conditions of the complainant 
had not been changed in any manner and that he had neither 
been dismisscd nor discharged from servico , there had been 
no controvention of the provisions of section 33 - A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , 
Preliminary objections : 
( 1 ) That the complaint was bad in law , Inasmuch as 

tho respondent had neither altered the conditions 
ot service Applicablo to the complainant immedia 
tely before the commencement of proceedings in 
respect of Ref . No. 2 / C of 1971 nor had been dis 
charged or dismissed from servico during the pon 
dency of the reference before this Tribunal, and 
that the complaint was not maintainable being 
without jurisdiction for the reason that it did not 
attract the provisions of section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) of the 

I.D . Act, 1947. 
3 . No writton rejoindor was filed by the complainant but 
ho roiterated the position takon by him in the complaint and 
controverted the stand taken by the respondent. 

4 . On the pleadings of the parties the following issues wero 
framod : 
Preliminary Issue ! 
Whether the complaint in question is not competent 

and is bad in law , as according to the respondent 
Chief Engineer had niother been any alteration in 


In fact the complainant has admitted that he had been 
allowed to cross - examino the witnesses , and to producc cvi 
donco in defence , and he has not alleged any partisanship on 
tho part of tho enquiry officer. 


Under these cricumstances, it is held that there is no sub 
stanco in tho complaint, and it is disposed of as such . 


The parties are, however, left to bear their own costo. 

P . P . R . SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 

No . L . 42012 / 1 / 73 / LRIII ] 


S . O . 1726 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complanit under section 
33 A of the said Act filed by Shri Sukh Ram which was rece 
jved by the Central Government on 28 - 5 - 1973 . 


BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWHNY , B .A . (HONS ) CANTAB 
BAR -AT-LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL INDUS 

TRIAL TRIBUNAL , CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No. 2 /26 of 1972 
under section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
Shii Sukh Ram , Beldar, T . No. 4136 -F , C /o . B . S . L . 
Workers Union , Sundernagar . - Complainant, 

Vs. 
Sub Divisional Officer, 
Power Plant Construction Sub Division , 
Power Plant Construction Division , 
B . S . L . Project , Sundornagar. 

- Respondent. 
Appearances ; 

Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar — for the complainant. 
Shri Rattan Lal — for the responclent. 


2198 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[PART II — 


- 


- 


- 


- 


months . He has also maintained that ono Kartar Chand , 
whose name had been removed from muster rolls, had been 
employed again . 


AWARD 
Shui Suhh Ram has filed this complaint under sçction 33- A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , who was appointed as 
a beldar with effect from 4 - 8 -71 by tho Personnel Officer of 
tho respondent Project, which post he claims to havo held 
substantive temporary under the certified standing orders . 


However , all this does not help him as he had been appoin 
ted for a specified period , and the respondent was justified 
in dispensing with his services, when no longer required . 


According to him he performed his duties satisfactorily 
upto 30 - 6 - 72 and ho was removed from service by the res 
pondent S . D . O ., without assiging any reason or giving any 
notico ay is provided for under the certified standing orders , 
and somo juniory had been allowed to continue in sorvice 
whilo ignoring provisions of section 25(G ). 


6 . It has been urged on behalf of the complainant that 
since after the expiry of thç original period of employment, 
the terms of employment had been extended whereby he 
(the complainant) had put in three years continuous service , 
ho had to be treated as a substantive temporary employee and 
was entitled to remain in employment go long as the post 
cxisted , as per clause (3 ) sub - clausc ( c ) of the certified stand 
ing orders, and that before his services could have been tor 
minated , the respondent had to give him 10 days notice as 
per clauso 16 sub - clause ( d ) and also to pay wages for the 
notice period , and that the S . D . O ., was not competent to 
pass orders of dismissal, 


2 . On a copy of the complaint having been furnished to the 
respondent, he submitted reply in which he has takçn tho 
following preliminary objections and in respect of merits 
ho has inter alla stated that the complainant had been appoin 
ted as a beldar for a specified period only and he (the com 
plainant) cannot claim to have held a substantive temporary 
rapk in view of provisions of the certified standing orders 
in respect of non - factory stuff, and that when his services 
werc 7o longer required they could be dispensed with accord 
ing to the terms of contract betwcen the parties , and as such 
there was no need to seek prior permission of the Tribunal 
when a reference was pending before this Tribunal. 
Preliminary objections : 
( 1 ) That the complaint was bad in law as the conditions 

of service of the complainant immediately before 
the commencement of the industrial dispule , refer 
ence No . 2 / C of 1971 were neither altered nor WHA 
he discharged or dismissed from service during the 

pendency of the said reference , and 
( 2 ) that the instant complaint did not attract the provisions 

of section 33 - A or (b ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, and that being so , the complaint is not 
maintainable . 


7 . In so far as the second contention of the complainant 
is concerned , it has been stated by the respondent s authorised 
representative that the order of dismissal was not passed by 
the $. D . O ., but by the Executive Engineer , and 80 far as 
the other contention of the complainant is concerned , it had 
also been maintained on behalf of the respondent that sinco 
the complainant had been employed for A specified period 
and keeping in view clause 3 ( I) of the certified standing orders , 
he could not claim to be treated as a temporary substantive 
employee , merely because the term of employment had been 
extended from time to time after giving him notices in this 
behalf . 

8 . In the circumstances explained above , on the porlod 
of complainant s employment having been expired and so 
also the period of extension which had beon given to him 
from time to time the respondent was justified in taking the 
action that has been taken complained of, Besides it has been 
stated by Shri Chand Parkash , S . D . O ., R . W . 1 , that tho 
complainant s services had been terininated in the same manner 
along with 72 others similarly employed . 


3 . In the rejoinder the complainant has challenged the 
correctness of the preliminary objections and more or less 
reitorated the position taken by him in thọ complaint and 
controverted the pleas taken by the respondent in the reply 
to the complaint. 


There is thus no substance in the complaint, and it is 
disposed of as such . 

P . P . R . SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 

[No. L . 42012 / 1 / 73 /LRTI] 


4 . On the pleadings of the parties the following issues were 
framed : 


Preliminary işgue : 


S . O . 1727,- - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , tho Central Government 
hereby publishes tho following award of the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 
33 - A of tho sald Act nied by Shri Ram Asra which was re 
ceived by the Central Government on 28 - 5 - 1973. 


Whether the complaint docs not lic and is incompetent 

as stated by the respondent Sub -Divisional Officer 
that the conditions of service of the complainant 
immediately before the commencement of the indus 
trial dispute forming subject-matter of reference No . 
2 / C of 1971 had neither been altered nor ho had 
been discharged from service during the pendency 
of the said reference and whether as such , the com 
plaint docs not attract provisions of section 33 - A 
of (b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ? 


BEFORE SHRI P .P . R . SAWHNY, B . A . (HONS.) 

CANTAB BAR -AT-LAW , 
PRESIDING OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL. 

(CENTRAL ) , CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No. 2 /35 of 1972 
under section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Shri Ram Asra, Welder , Token No. 364 -C , 
Communication Division , Nangal Township , 

Complainant. 


On merits : 


Whether there has been contravention of the provisions 

of section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , 
for the reason as alleged by the complainant that 
he had been removed from service during the pen 
dency of reference No. 2 / C of 1971, without per 
mission having been obtained from the Tribunal ? 


Vs. 


$ . Shri Sukh Ram has examined himself as also Shri 
Mohinder Singh as a witness , who has appeared in order to 
support the complaint , and Shri Chand Parkash , S . D . O . of 
tho respondent Project, has appeared as a witness . 


It is not denied by the complainant that he had been emp 
loyed for a specified period, but he has maintained that 
he was not aware of any period of employment in the letter 
issued to him , and that he was ignorant regarding respondent 
having displayed a notice on the notice board and a list of 
workmen whose services had beco terminated along with him , 
or that after the expiry of three months of his employment , 
tbo respondent had pasted a notice on the notice board giving 
out that his scrvices had been extended for a period of three 


The Chief Engineer, B , S . L . Project, Sundernagar, 

Respondent. 
Appearances 

Shri Dhani Ram — for the complainant. 
Shri Rattan Lal — for the respondent, 

AWARD 
This is a complaint by Shri Ram Asra , welder , under sec 
tion 33 - A of tho Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 alleging that 
tbcro has been contravention of the provisions of section 33, 
inasmuch as he had been unjustifiably transferred from 
Slapper to Nangal which involved a loss of house rent @ 
10 % and non -payment of special allowance @ 15 % of the 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAIŞTHA 26 , 1895 

2199 

-- - - - - 
basic pay and dearness pay , and non -realisation of Emp S.O . 1728 . --In pursuance of section 17 of thc Industrial 
loyces Provident Fund concession , which was not applicable Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
to employees posted at Nangal, that he had been victimised hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
as he was a member and official of the Penstock Division , bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 
Slapper thin , and as General Secretary of the B . S . L . Maz 33A of the said Act filed by Shri Balbir Singh which was 
door Ekta Union , had been declared as a protected work received by the Central Government on 28 - 5 - 1973 , 
man vide letter sent to the Chief Engincer , dated 26 - 4 - 1972 , 
and that the transfer involved a loss of Rs. 70 per month . 

BEFORE SHRI P . P .R . SAWHNY, B . A . (HONS.) 
2 . In the reply to the complaint two preliminary objec 

CANTAB BAR -AT-LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , 
tions have been taken , and on merits it has been stated that 
since there has been no charge in thc conditions of service INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL ( CENTRAL ) , CHANDIGARH 
the question of violation of the provisions of section 33 - A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 did not arise , and that 

Complaint No. 2 /41 of 1972 
the complaint wus without jurisdiction , inasmuch as the 
complaint was transferred in public interest from Slapper 

under section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
to Communication Division , Nangal like other workcharged 

Shri Balbir Singh, beldar , Token No. 
employees from one Division to another on the Project, and 
that no other we kcharged employcc was in receipt of any 

817 - C , C / B . S.L . Workers Union , 
allowannces at Nangal. 

Sundernagar. 

Complainant. 


Vs. 


Executive Engineer , Pengtock Division , 

B . S.L . Project, Sundernagar Township (H .P .) 


It has been denied that the complainant was a protected 
workman , and added that even it be so , the transfer from 
Slapper to Nangal had nothing to do with his status as 
General Secretary of the B .S .L . Mazdoor Ekta Union . 

3. In the rejoinder , the complainant controverted the pleas 
taken by the respondent in his reply and has gcncrally reiter 
ated the stand taken by him in the complaint. 

4 . On the plcadings of the parties , the following issues 
were framed : 
Preliminary issue 
Whether this Tribunal has no jurisdiction to entertain 

the complaint, inasmuch as the complainant is not to 
have been discharged or dismissed from service and 
conditions of his service had not been in any 
manner charged , he having been merely transferred 
from Penstock Division , Slapper to Communication 
Division , B .S . L . Nangal in public interest ? 


Respondent. 
APPEARANCES : 

Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar - for the complainant. 
Shri Rattan Lal- for the respondent, 

AWARD 


On merits 


Whether there nad been any contravention of the pro 

visions of section 33- A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act as alleged by the complainant that he had 
been transferred from Penstock Division to Nangal 
Communication Division during the pendency of 
Ref. 2 / C of 1971 without first obtaining prior ap 
proval from the Tribunal? 


Shri Balbir Singh , complainant, has filed this ocmplaint 
under Section 33 - A of the Industriul Disputes Act, 1947 , 
and has alleged that whilc he was holding post of substan 
tive temporary nature , the respondent Executive Engineer 
terminated his services with effect from 1 - 10 - 1972 In contra 
vention of provisions of the certified standing orders which 
were applicable to them , and tbat this had becn done with 
out taking prior perinission of the Tribunal before whom 
reference No. 2 / C of 1971 was pending , and that there has 
been contravention of the provisions of section 33- A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 

2. The respondent raised a preliminary objection in the 
reply to the complaint that the complaint was not maintain 
able as Shri Balbir Singh hud been employed for a specified 
period and after which his service automatically stood ter 
minated without service of any notice . 


On merits , it has been admitted that the services of Shri 
Balbir Singh had been terminated after the expiry of the 
specificd period, for which he had been employed , and added 
that no prior permission of this Tribunal or notice etc . was 
required and that there had been no contravention of the 
provisions of thc certified standing orders . 


5 . The complainant has produced Shri Dhani Ram bis 
authorised representative , as a witness , and the respondent has 
examined his authorised representative, Shri Rattan Lal . 

Shri Dhani Ram has more or loss reiterated the position 
taken by the complainant in the complaint and refuted all 
that had been stated in the reply to the complaint. 

The sole question that arises for consideration is whether 
the respondent authorities were justified in ordering trans 
fer of Shri Ram Asra , without giving any noticc thereby 
causing to him a loss of Rs. 60 to Rs. 70 per month , to 
which he was entitled by way of allowances. 

6 . No doubt, Shri Ram Asra claims to be the General Sec 
retary of the B .S . L . Project, Mazdoor Ekta Union and mem 
ber of the works committee but this alone does not go to 
show that the respondent was in any way biased against him 
on that account. Obviously more transfer from one Division 
to another does not amount to any change in service condi 
tions , and that being so , the question of violation of the 
provisions of section 33 - A of the I. D . Act, 1947 docs not 
arise , and it is held that there is no substance in the comp 
laint. 

Award is given accordingly, and the parties are left to 
bear their own costs . 

[No. L . 42012 / 1 / 73 / LRIII ] 

P . P . R . SAWHNEY, Presiding Oflicer. 
31 G [ / 73 — 10 


3. No written rejoinder was put in , but the authorised 
representative of the complainant verbally reiterated the 
plcas taken by the complainant in the complaint, and refuted 
the stund taken by the respondent in his reply to he comp 
laint. 


4 . On the pleadings of the partics, the following issues 
were framed : 
Preliminary issue 
Whether thc complaint is not maintainable, as accord 

ing to the respondent, Executive Engineer, the comp 
lainant had been engaged for a specified period after 
which his services stood terminated without scrv 
ing any notico ? 


2200 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAJSTHA 26 , 1895 

[PART II 
- - - - - - - 

- - - 
On merlis 

1 . Propondent Ned his reply to the complaint and 

Tribo po Willowing preliminary objections, and on merits 
Whether there has beon any comravcation of the pro 
visions of seotion 33 - A of the Industrial Disputo ! 

refwed the contentions of the complainant workman . 
Act, 1947 , as # dogod by the complainant in his con 
laint that he had been record from service by the Preliminary oblections : 
respondent Executive Engineer from service by the 
respondent Exportive Engineer without obning 

( 1 ) That the complaint is bad in law , inasmuch as the 
permission from this Tribunal when reference No . 

complainant had neither been discharged nor dismis 
2 / c of 1971 was ending before this Tribunal? 

sed from service and also because the conditions 
3 . Shri Balbir Singh , complainant, has examined himself 

of service applicable to him immediately before the 
as the only witness , and the complaint was journed to 
28 - 12 - 1972 for the evidence of the respondent. However , 

commencement of proceeding before the Tribuna 
after his statement had been recorded , the authorised rep 

in respect of reference No . 2 / C of 1971, had not 
resentative of the parties gave out that the matter in dispute 

been altered , 
had been settled ou of court. Accordingly their statements 
were recorded . 

( 2 ) That the complainant had been awarded the punish 
Shri Rattan Lal, the authorised representative of the res 

ment in question for misconduct of negligence of 
pondent Executive Engineer, aş stated that a decision had 

duty as per provisions of the Certified Standing 
been taken while taking back Shri Balbir Singh in service 

Orders in respect of non -Factory staff, and in doing 
to allow him continuity of service , but that he would not 
be allowed payment of wages for the period that he remain 

80 , the respondent had not infringed the provisions 
ed unemployed . 

of section 33 (2 ) ( 9 ) or (b ) or section 33 ( 3 ) of the 

I. D . Act , 1947. 
Shri Mohinder Singh , the authorised representative of the 
complainant, has stated that he had heard the statement made 
by Shri Rattan Lal, the authorised representative of the 

3. The proceedings were thereafter adjourned for filing 
respondent, and as the matter in dispute had been settled of rejoinder, but instead of putting in rejoinder, Shri Mohin 
amicably out of court, the complainant did not wish to pursue 

der Singh , the authorised representative of the complainant, 
tho complainant , and that it may be disposed of ag not having 
been pressed and withdrawn . 

made a statement that the complainant did not wish to 

pursue the complaint as they now discovered that the In 
6 . Having regard to the statements made by the authorised 

dustrial Tribunal way not the appropriate authority for 
representatives of the parties, reproduced above , the comp 
laint is disposed of as not having been pressed and withdrawn . 

tuking action in the matter . 
P . P . R . SAWHNY , Presiding Officer 

4 . Having regard to the statement of Shri Mohinder Singh , 
[No. L . 42012 /1 / 73 / LRIII) the authorised representative of the complainant, and repro 
9 . 0 . 1729. In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus 

duced above , the complaint is disposed of as not having 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Govern . been pursued and withdrawn. 
ment hereby published the following award of the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under No order as to costs . 
Section 33A of the said Act filed by Shri Randhir Singh 
which was received by the Central Government on 28 - 5 - 1973. 

P . P . R . SAWHNY , Presiding Officer 
BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWHNY, B . A . (HONS.) 

[ No . L . 42012 / 1 /73 / LRIII] 
CANTAB BAR -AT-LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , 
CENTRAL INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, 

S .O . 1730 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
CHANDIGARH 

Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government 
Complaint No. 2 /28 of 1972 

hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 

bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Section 
under section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 

33A of the said Act filed by Shri Jit Singh which was re. 

ceived by the Central Government on 28 - 5 - 1973 . 
Shri Randhir Singh, Driver, Token No . 

54 -J , Aggregate Production Sub 
Division , B .S. L . Project Sundernagar Complainant. 

BEFORE SHRI P .P .R . SAWHNY, B .A . (HONS.) CANTAB 
Vs. 

BAR -AT-LAW , PRESIDING OFFICFR , CENTRAL 
Şub Divisional Officer , Aggregate Pro 

INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CHANDIGARH 
duction Sub - Division No. 2 , B . S ,L . 
Project, Sundernagar 

Respondent. 

Complaint No . 2 /38 of 1972 
APPEARANCES : 

linder section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Shri Mohinder Singh Togar — for the complainant. 

Shri Jit Singh , Token No. 333 -C , 
Shri Rattan Lal -- for the respondent. 

Junior fitter, C /o B .S .L . Workers 
AWARD 

Union , Sundernagar. 

Complainant 
Shri Randhir Singh , Drivei, Token No. 54 , filed this comp 
laint under section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , 

Executive Engineer, B .S .L . Penstock 
in which it has been inter alia stated that the respondent Sub 

Division , Sundernagar. 

Respondant 
Divisional Officer had inflicted a punishment of two days 
suspension on him without securing prior permission froni APPEARANCES : 
this Tribunal, when içference No. 2 / C of 1971 was pending 

Shri Mohinder Singh for the complainant. 
and had thereby contravened provisions of section 33 (2 ) (h ) 

Shri Rattan Lal — for the rospondent, 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , 


Vs. 


- 


- 


- 


SEC , 3 (ü ) ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2201 
-- - -- = = - = = = - - - 

- - - 

= 

= 
AWARD 

This contention ſinds support from leave application , Ext. 
Shri Jit Singh , Token No. 333 - C , a junior fitter in Stuc . 

R / 1, dated 23rd September , 1972 , which is admitted to have 
ture Shop Division , Pcostock Division , has 

been received by Shri Roshan Lal, RW , 1 , a day subsequent 

led this comp 
laint under section 33- A 

to the passing of the orders , Ext. C / 1, in regard to treating 
of the Industrial Displites Act, 
1947 Ls according to him , his name had been removed from 

the case of Shri Jit Singh as that of voluntary resignation 

under the certified standing orders. 
service without obtaining prior permission of this Tribunal , 
at a time when a disputc forming subject matter of reference 
No. 2 / C of 1971 was pending, in which he was an interested 

Apart rom this, the plca of Shri Jit Singh also finds sup 
party . 

port from Ext. C / 2 , i certificate issued by the Asstt. Super 

intendent, Jail that Shri Jit Singh bad put in an application 
In this connection he has also stated that he had been 

to the respondent S .D . O . vide his despatch No. 934 dated 
arrested on 10 - 9 - 1972, under sections 107 / 151 Cr. R C . by 

23 - 9 - 1972 . 
the police and that he had requested the police authorities 
to inform his officers and they had told him 

It is also to be found from the statement of Shri Roshan 

that informa 
lion icgarding his arrest had been conveyed to his officers, 

Lal Vij S .D . O . R . W . 1 that when the complainant came to 
that he remained in the custody of the police up to 29 . 9 . 1972 , 

report for duty , he told him that he was arrested by the 
and that when he reported for duty , he was handed over 

police, and that for that reason he could not report for duty 
letter No. 79 - 86 / 7E / FD , dated 22 - 9 - 1972, intimating that 

Or apply for leave . 
his service had been terminated . 

Thus the absence of Shri Jit Singh , complainant, from duty 
2 . The respondçni Exccutive Engineer has raised the fol. 

for more than 10 days was not wilful or without sufficient 
lowing preliminary objections, and on merits he has denied 

cause , and a person of his intelligence appears to have taken 
that he had been informed at any time by the complainant 

all possible steps to inform his employers the circumstances 
about his arrest under sections 105 / 151 Cr . P . C ., and that 

which prevented him from reporting for duty and he had 
since Shri Jit Singh , complainant , had been absent from 

in fact explained the circumstances at the earlicst opportu 
duty for more than 10 days, as provided for under clause 

nity , when he reported for duty , but was not allowed to 
15 of the certified standing orders in respect of Factory 

join duty . 
staff, his name had been removed from the rolls of the 
establishment for having voluntarily resigned from the Pro 

It is unfortunate that the police authorities for reasons 
ject s service. 

best known to them , did not inform the employers of the 

complainant about his having been arrested by them , but 
In this behalf, it has also been stated that when the 

since the contention of the complainant that he remained 
complainant came to resume duty on 3 - 10 - 1972 , he did not 

in police custody up to 29 - 10 - 1972 , has not been challenged 
explain properly about his absence or statc whether hc had 

by the respondent Executive Engincer . Shri Jit Singh , comp . 
been bailed olit or not, that it was not possible to wait for 

lainant, could not have possibly reported for duty till such 
an indefinite period for the complainant to report for duly , 

time as he was released by the police . 
and that under these circumstances , there was no necessity 
to seek prior permission from the Tribunal, inasmuch as the With this background the respondent Executive Engineer 
complainant had not been discharged or dismissed from docs not appear to be justified in passing orders , Ext. C / 1 , 
service . 

treating the case of Shri Jit Singh as that of voluntary 

resignation , as these orders in fact tantamount to termina 
Preliminary objections: 

lion of services and since at that time reference No. 2 / C 

of 1971 was pending in which the complainant was an in 
That the complaint was not maintainable for the rcason 

terested party , it was incumbant upon the respondent to have 
that the complainant had neitber been discharged for 
dismissed from service , and also because the con 

secured prior permission which they have not done. 
ditions of service applicable to him before the pen 
dency of reference No . 2 / C of 1971, had not been 

It may also be mentioned that the orders , Ext . C / 1 , were 
changed and his name had been removed from 

not sent to the complainant, Shri Jit Singh , at his home 

sei 
the rolls, he having voluntarily resigned from 

address , though according to Shri Roshan Lal, RW . 1 , 

hoinc addresses of employees are to be found in their service 
vice . 

books, and it was not necessary to send it at the local 

address of Shri Jit Singh , and all that has been stated in 
3 . No written rejoinder was put in by the complainant 

this behalf is that a man was sent to find out if Shri Jit 
but he verbally reiterated the position taken by him in his 

Singh was at his local address , and it was learnt that he was 
complaint, and controverted the pleas that were taken by the 

not there , 
respondent in his reply to the complaint. 

It has been urged on behalf of the respondent that in 
4 . On the plendings of the parties, the following issues 

case a workman does not apply for leave on account of de 
framed : 

tention or otherwise , and remains absent for more than 10 
Preliminary issue: 

days, such a workman loses lien on the post and the manage 

ment acquires a righ to strike off his name from their 
Whether the instant complaint is not maintainable as register. 

according to the respondent , the complainant had 
ncithcr been discharged nor dismissed from service They have relied upon in this behalf upon Supreine Court 
and on that account his name was removed from Labour Judgment - pago 1023 , and Misconduct in Employ 
the rolls , and also for the reason that the conditions Inent - page 602 . Neither of these cases are applicable to the 
of service applicable to him before the pendency facts of the instant complaint, as they relate to private in 
of reference No. 2 / C of 1971 had not been dustry cases . 
changed ? 

There is of course no dispute that under clause 14 of the 
On mcrits 

certified standing orders, services of a workman are dcemed 

to have been automatically terminated , if he does not report 
Whether there has been any contravention of the pro 

for duty and remains absent for more than 10 days , but such 
visions of section 33 - 4 of the Industrial Disputes 

absence from duty if be not voluntary but beyond his 
Act, 1947, as alleged by the complainanti 

control obviously his case cannot be considered to be that 

of voluntary resignation . Neither of these citations under 
5 . The complainant has examined himself as his only 

such circumstances are of any benefit to the respondent. 
witness and the respondent have examined Shri Roshan Lal 
Vij, S . D . O . B . S . L . Project, Sundernagar , as their solitary 

The complainant has relied upon 1968- F . J. R . - - Vol. 34 
witness . 

page 42 at 46 , wherein it has been observed as under but this 
From the statement niade by Shri Jit Singh it appears that too is not of any assistance : - 
after he was arrested on 10 - 9 - 1972 under sections 107 / 151 
Cr. P . C ., he remained in the custody of the police upto 29th 

" But, in my opinion , the words " fails to resume duty " 
September, 1972 , and that he requested the police authori 
tics to inform his employers and they told him 

apply to a railway servant who by a voluntary and 
that they 

deliberate act or omission stays away from duty and 
would do so . 


2202 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

PART 1 
-- 

= 
fails to report, and not to one who was prevented Prollmhnary objections : 
by a cause beyond his control to resume duty ." 

That the complaint was not maintainablo under SOLLIVU 
33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 as the complainant 

had neither been discharged nor disinissed from service , anu 
In view of the position explained above, it is held that 

also for the reaşon that the conditions of service applicable 
there has been contravention of the provisions of section 33- A 

to him before tho pendency of reference No. 2 / c of 1971. 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and that there was no 

had not been changed and his name had been removed from 
justification for terminating the services of the complainant, 

the rolls, he having voluntarily resigned from service . 
Shri Jit Singh . 

No written rejoinder was put in by the complainant, but 
P . P . R . SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 

ho verbally reiterated the position taken by him in the com 
[No. L , 42012 / 1 /73 /LR III) 

plaint and contravened the staud taken by the respondent in 

his reply to the complaint. 
. o . 1731 . — In pursuanco of section 17 of tho Industrial 

3 . On plendings of tho parties , the following issues were 
Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 

framed : 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Soction Prellin nary issue : 
33 - A of the said Act filed by Shri Jit Singh which was receiv 
ed by the Central Government on 28 -5 - 1973 . 

Whether the instant complaint is not maintainable as ac 

cording to tho respondent, thc complainant had nçither been 
BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWHNY , B . A . (HONS ) CANTAB discharged nor dismissed from service , in as much as the 
BAR - AT -LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL 

complainant is said to havo voluntarily resigned from servico 
TRIBUNAN (CENTRAL ), CHANDIGARH 

and on that account his name was removed from rolls, 
and also for the reason that the conditions of service appli 

cable to him before the pendency of reference No . 2 / C or 
Complaint No. 2 / 39 of 1972 

1971 had not been changed ? 
Under section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
Shri Jit Singh , T . No. 436 - C , Pipe fitter , C / B . S .L . 

Oa incrits 
Workers Union , Sundernagar, . . . . Complainant 

Whether there had been any contravention of the provi 
sions of section 33- A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947, 

as alleged by the complainant ? 
Executive Engineer, B . S.L . Ponstock Division , Sunder 4 . Shri Jit Singh , complainant, has examined himself as his 
nagar . 

. . . . Respondent, 

only witness . The respondent has examined Shri Roshan Lal 

Vij , S . D . O ., B . S .L . Project , Sundernagar , as his solitary wit 
Appearances : 

ness , 
Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar - - for the complainant. 
Shri Rattan Lal- for the respondent. 

From the statement of Shri Jit Singh it transpires that his 

Services had been terminated on 22 - 9 - 72 , when he was in 
AWARD 

police custody , having been arrested under sections 107 / 151 

Cr. P . C ., 
This is a complaint by Shri Jit Singh , Token No.: 436 -C , 
who was working as a pipe fitter in Penstock Division , that ho was released on bail after 18 days as earlier to 
Şundernagar. He has stated therein that he was arrested that no one came forward to furnish surely for him , and that 
under sections 107 / 151 Cr. P . C ., and that he was kept in when he was actually relcased on bail and he reported for 
lock - up upto 29 - 9 - 72 , and that he had requested the SH . O . duty , he was not allowed to join duty and his services had 
to inform his officers about his arrest , and that he had also been terminated vide order , Ext. C / 2 . 
handed over his leave application , and was told that neccs 
sary information had been given to his employers . 

He has also stated that he had requested the S . H . O . to 

inform his employers as he was a Government employees , 
He has further stated in the complaint, that on 15 - 9 - 72 and he had been told that they would send necessary intima 
he sent his leave application through Shri Garib Dass work 

tion , which was in fact incumbant upon him to do , and that 
man , who was working with him , and also sent other appli he had also gubmitted an application for leave while he was 
cations on 20 -9 -72 and 23 - 9 -72 through Mandi Polico au 

in jail vide C / 1 requesting, the Superintendent Jall to inform 
thorities, 

his employers about his arrest , and 


Vs . 


that when he was released from police custody ho went 
to report for duty but was not allowed to join and was in 
stead handed over letter No. 71- 78 / 7 - E / FD , dated 22 -9 - 72 
and intimated this his services had been terminated with 
effect from 22 - 9 -72 , and 


that he had submitted two other leave applications to the 
S . D . O ., Penstock Division , and as per statement made by 
Shri Koshan Lm Vij, one of tho applications of Shri Jit Singh , 
dated 20- 9 - 72 , was received in his office on 25-9 - 72 . 

The complainant has also stated that he had told the S .D . O . 
concerned after he was released on bail , about his arrest 
through applications, and that being in the lock - up he could 
not report for duty earlier . 


that this action of the respondent was in contravention 
of the provisions of section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) as no prior permission 
had been taken as reforence No. 2 / C of 1971 was pending, 
in which he was an interested party . 


2 . In the reply put in by tho respondent to the complaint, 
the following proliminary objections were taken , and in res 
pect of merits, it has been stated that the complainant had 
not informed him about his arrest by the police under sec 
tions 107 / 151 Cr. P . C ., and that since the complainant re 
mained abscot from duty , his name had been removed from 
the rolls , his case having boen treated as that of voluntary 
resignation under the certificd standing orders . 


Shri Rosban Lal Vij. S . D . O ., R . W . 1 , hag admitted that 
leave application , dated 20th September , 1972 , was received 
on 25 - 9 - 72 , and added that it was not necossary to send a 
copy of ordors , Ext. C / 2 , to Shri Jit Singh , complainant, 
even though home address must be in his service book , for 
the reason that his case had been treated as that of volun 
tary resignation . 


5 . It is unfortunate that the police authorities for rcasons 
best known to them , did not inform the employers of the 
complainant about complainant having been arrested by them , 
but since the contention of the complainant that he remained 
in police custodly upto 29 - 9 - 72 , has not been challenged by tho 
respondent, Executive Engineer . Shri Jit Singh , complainant 
could not obviously have reported for duty till such time, as 
he was released by the police , 


It has also been stated that they had not received any 
leave application , except one, dated 25- 9 - 72 , through Shri 
Garib Dag or any one else , and added that it was not possi 
ble for them to wait for the complainant indefinitely , and 
that under these circumstances there was no necessity for 
taking prior permission of the Tribunal before whom refer 
ence No. 2 / C of 1971 was pending, as the case of the com 
plainant was not that of discharge or dismissal from service. 


With this back ground thc respondent Exocutive Engineer 
does not seem to me to be justified in passing orders, Ext. 
C / 2 treating the case of Shri Jit Singh as that of voluntary 
resignation , as these orders in fact tentamount to termination 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2203 


of services and sinco at that time referenco No. 2 / C of 1971 
was pending, in which the complainant was an interested 
party , it was incumbant upon the respondent to have secured 
prior permission , which they have not done . 


a specified period, and on conclusion of the contractual period 
his services had been justifiably dispensed with as no longer 
required and that there was no contravention of tho provi 
sions of section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
and that the complaint was misconcelved . 


3. In the rejoinder, the complainant controverted the picas 
taken by the respondent in the reply and generally reiterated 
the stand taken by him in the complaint, 


It has been urged on behalf of tho respondent that in caso 
& workman docs not apply for leave on account of detention 
or otherwise , and remains absent for moro than 10 days , such 
a workmen loses lien on the post and the management ac 
quires a right to strike off his name from their register . 

They have relied upon , in this behalf , upon Supremo 
Court Labour Judgmnents — page 1023 , and Misconduct in 
Employment - page 602. Neither of these cases are appli 
cable to the facts of the instant complaint and they relate 
to private industry cases . 


4 . On the pleadings of the parties, the following issue was 


framed : 


There is of course no dispute that under clause 14 of the 
certified standing orders , services of a workman are doemed 
to have been automatically terminated if he does not report 
for duty and remains absent for more than 10 days, but such 
absence from duty if be pot voluntary but be beyond his 
control, obviously his case cannot be considered to bo that 
of a voluntary resignation . Neither of these citations under 
such circumstances are of any avail to the respondent. 


" Whether there had been any contravention of the provi 

sions of scction 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, as alleged by the complainant in his com 
plaint that his services had been terminated dwing 
tho pendency of reference No. 2 / c , without first 
obtaining approval from the Tribunal ? 


5 . The complainant did not appear himself, but instcad his 
Authorised representative has appcared as 1 witness on his 
behalf , and Shri Ruttan Lal has appeared as a wilness on be 
half of the respondent Chief Engineer . 


The complainant has relied upon 1968- F .J .R . Volume 34 , 
page 42 at 46 , where it has been observed as under, but this 
too is of no assistance : 


" But , in my opinion , the words fails to resume duty 

apply to a railway servant who by a voluntary and 
deliberato act or omission stays away from duty 
and fails to report, and not to one who was prc 
vented by a cause beyond his control to resume duty ." 


In view of the position explained above , it is held that there 
has been contravention of the provisions of section 33 - A of 
the ladustrial Disputes Act, 1947, and that there was no 
justification for terminating the services of the complainant , 
Shri Jit Singh . 

P . P . R . SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 

[No. L . 42012 / 1 / 73 / LRIIT) 


According to Shri Dhani Ram , the complainant was work 
ing as a gate keeper in the Vigilance and Security Staff Divi 
sion when his services had been terminated on the specificd 
dated i.e . the date up to which he was employed , and that 
some other employees appointed in similar circumstances, had 
been allowed to continue in service , and that some new hands 
hud also becn employed subsequently . However , he has ad 
mitted that no gate -keeper had been employed by the res 
pondent after the complainant s services had been terminated. 

The fact that Shri Dhani Ram had been appointed for a 
specified period , has not been donicd by him and it is also 
borne out from lctter of appointment, Ext. R / 1 . As such 
there is nothing objectionablc for the respondent in dispens 
ing with the services of the complainant after expiry of con 
tractual period , and Shri Dhani Dan is not entitled to make 
at grouse of it . In any case there is no contravention of sec 
tion 33 - A of the Industrial Disputen Act, 1947 with the given 
facts . 


9 . O . 1732. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 
33 - A of the said Act filed by Shri Dhani Ram which was 
received by the Central Government on 28 - 5 - 1973 . 


Apart from this , it has also been admitted by the repre 
sentative of the complainant that after his services had been 
terminated , no one had been employed as a gato kccper 
which coes to show that gato keepers were no longer need 
cd . 


The complaint is accordingly disposed of as being without 
any substance . 


BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWANY, B . A . (HONS.) CANTAB 
BAR -AT-LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL ), CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No. 2 / 36 of 1972 


P . P . R . SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 

[No. L . 42012 / 1 /73 /LRIII ] 


Under section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 
Shri Dhani Ram , Token No : 2890 - F , Gate Keeper, 

President, Mazdoor Ekta Union C /o 1371, Sundci 
nagar , District Mandi 

. . . . Complainant. 


Vs . 


S .O . 1733 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Section 
33 - 1 of the said Act filed by Shri Khushal Chand which was 
BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWHNY , B . A . (Hons.) CANTAB 

BAR -AT -LAW , PRESIDING OFFCER , CENTRAL 

INDUSTRIAL, TRIBUNAL , CHANDIGARH . 


The Chicf Engineer, B .S .L . Project, Sundernagar, Dis 

trict Mandi, Himachal Pradesh . . . .Respondent. 
Appeaгauces : 

Shri Dhani Ram - - for the complainant. 
Shri Rattan Lal — for the respondent. 

AWARD 


Chandigarh . 


Complaint No. 2 / 33 of 1972 
Under section 33- A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 
Shri Khushal Chand , chowkidar. T . No. 626 - A .D ., C / O 
B . S L . Workers Union , Sundernagar 

. . Complainant. 


Vs. 


Shri Dhani Ram has filed this complaint under section 
33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , alleging that there 
had been contravention of the provisions of section 33 - A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, inasmuch as the respondent 
had ordered that his services were no longer required after 
31- 7 - 72 during the pendency of the demands, and that the 
respondent was not justified in terminating his services with 
out securing prior permission from this Tribunal. 

2 . In the reply filed by the respondent Chicf Engineer 
certain preliminary objections had been raised , and on merits 
it was stated that since the complainant was appointed for 


Executive Engineer , Ware House Division , B.S.L . Pro 

ject , Sundernagar Township . Respondent. 
Appearances : 

Shri Mohinder Singh -- for the complainant. 
Shri Rattan Lal — for the respondent. 


2204 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[PART II 


- - - 


- 


- 


AWARD 


the appointing authority , i.c . Executive Engineer , as per cer 
tified standing orders for non- factory staff . 


According to him , penality of Rs. 1714, 90 Palse had been 
imposed upon him without considering the facts and cirmus 
tances of the casc , uş had been stated in the reply to the 
show - cause notice and it was not a theft case but was a 
matter of pilieidge , which might have been done by the 
S .O . or by sume body else , and 


that the enquiry had been held against principles of natural 
justice as he (complainant ) had not been provided with oppor 
tunity to be represented through the union , and 


Shri Khushal Chand , chowkidar, has filed this complaint 
alleging contravention of the provisions of section 33 - A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , by the respondent, inas 
much as punishment of pecuniary loss had been inflicted upon 
him which according to him was not within the competence 
of the Divisional Officer , Store Şub -Division , Sundernagar , 
who could only order a punishment of four days suspension 
to a workman , and also for the reason that the impugned 
Action had been taken without securing prior permission from 
this Tribunal before whom reference No . 2 / C of 1971 was 
pending. 

2. The respondent filed reply to the complaint raising the 
following preliminary objections, and on merits the respon 
dent refuted the contentions of the complainant workman . 
Preliminary objection : 
( 1 ) That the instant complaint was bad in law , inasmuch 

as the conditions of service of the complainant im 
mediately before the commencement of the indus 
trial dispute in reference No . 2 / C of 1971, were not 
altered for was he discharged / dismissed from ser 
vice during the pendency of the Industrial dispute 

before this Tribunal. 
( 2 ) That the instant complaint was not maintainable for 

the reason that it did not attract the provisions of 
section 33 (a ) or (b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 

1947. 
3 . The proceedings were thereafter adjourned for filing of 
rejoinder , but instead of putting in a rejoinder, Shri Mohin 
der Singh , the authorised representative of the complainant , 
made a statement that the complainant did not wish to pursue 
the complainant as he had now found out that the Indus 
trial Tribunal was not the appropriate authority to take ac 
tion in the matter . 

4 . Keeping in view the statement made by Shri Mohinder 
Singh , the authorised representative of the complainant, as 
reproduced above , the complaint is disposed of as not having 
been pursued and withdrawn. 
The parties are left to bear their own costs. 

P . P . R . SAWANY , Presiding Officer 

[No . L . 42012 / 1 / 73 / LRII 


that at the time when the respondent took the impugned 
action , a dispute vide ieference No. 2 / C of 1971, was pending 
before this Tribunal and the respondent had not securel 
prior permission from the Tribunal to impose penalty , as 
l equired under section 33 ( 2 )( b ), of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 . 

2 . On a copy of the complaint having been furnished to 
the respondent, he put in written statement, in which the 
following preliminary objections were raised , and on merits 
he refuted various assertions that had been made by the 
complainant in his complaint and gave justification for taking 
the impugned action , 


It has also been added therein that there were no neces 
sity for taking permission from the Tribunal before taking 
the impugned action as the complaint was not connected with 
the dispute forming subject matter of reference No . 2 / C 
of 197 ) . 

that the deduction of wages was ordered in connection with 
loss to the Government property , as is provided for under 
section 7 of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 , and 

that the complainant had not exhusted the remedy available 
to hiin under the certificd standing orders before approaching 
this Tribunal. 
Preliminary obloctions : 
( 1) That the complaint is not maintainable as the deduc 

tion of wages from the wages of the complainant 
weic ordeid strictly in accordance with the pro 
visions of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 , after 
giving an opportunity of showing cause against the 
deduction and this being so , the provisions of sec 
tion 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 are not 
attracted 


S . O . 1734 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Art 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 33- A 
of the said Act filed by Shui Kalla Ram which was received 
by the Central Government on 28th May, 1973 . 


(2 ) That the complainant was not punished for any 

misconduct connected with the dispute and for that 

reason the complaint in question did not lic, 
(3 ) That the complainant had not exhausted the remedies 

available to him under the relevant certified standing 
orders before coming to the Industrial Tribunal. 


BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWHNY, B . A . (HONS ) CANTAB 
BAR -AT- LAW , PRESIDING OFFICFR , CENTRAL INDUS 

TRIAL TRIBUNAL , CHANDIGARH 


3 . No written rejoinder was put in by the complainant 
workman , but hc verbally refuted the preliminary objections 
that had been taken in the reply by the respondent, as well 
as the contentions of the respondent in respect of merits . 


Complaint No. 2 / 19 of 1972 
Under section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

Shri Kalia Ram , Chowkidar, T . No . 529- AD , 
Ware House Division , B . S . L . Project , 
Sundarnagar 

. . .. Complainant. 

Vs. 
Executive Engineer , Ware House Division , 
B . S . L . Project, Sundarnagar 

Respondent 


4 . On the pleadings of the parties , following issues were 
Tramed : - - 
Preliminary Issues : 


Appearances : 


Shui Mohinder Singh - - for the complainant, 
Shu Rattan Lal— for the respondent. 


AWARD 


( 1) Whether the instant complaint is not maintainable 

as according to the respondent, Executive Engineer 
the complainant caused a loss to the property of the 
employer directly attributable to his neglect, and 
deduction of wagos had been ordered in accordance 
with the provisions of the Payment of Wages Act, 
1936 after providing an opportunity to the com 
plainant to show cause, and there being no contra 
vention of the provisions of section 33 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 , inasmuch as thc complainant 
was not punished for any misconduct connected with 

the dispute ? 
( 2 ) Whether the instant complaint does not lie in view 

of the fact as stated by the respondent Executive 
Engineer that the complainant had not exhausted 


Shri Kalia Ram , Chowkidar , has filed this complaint and 
has maintained therein that the Sub -Divisional Officer , Ward 
House Sub - Division , Baggi, had unjustifiably punished him 
for alleged gross -misconduct which was beyond his compt 
tency, inasmuch as he could nward punishment of upto 
four days suspension , and that the right of recovery as a 
measure of punishment was only within the competency of 


Sec , 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2205 
- - - - - - 

- - - - - - 
remedies that were available to him under the matter of reference No . 2 / C of 1971, and the complainant 
relevant certified standing orders before approaching hay not been discharged or dismissed , it is held that this 
the Tribunal ? 

Tribunal is not the proper forum and that the remedy of 
On merits : 

seeking redress of his grievances is under the Payment of 

wages Act, 1936 and the complaint is not maintainable , 
( 3 ) Whether the respondent Executive Engineer was justi 

fied in taking the impugned action against the Award is given accordingly , 
complainant workman during the pendency of refer 

P . P . R . SAWHNY , Presiding Officer 
ence No. 2 / C of 1971 before this Tribunal by 
imposing a penalty of Rs. 1714 .90 Paise for mis 

[No. L . 42012 / 1 /73 /LRITI ) 
conduct, thereby contravening the provisions of sec 
tion 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ? 

S . O . 1735 . - n pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 

Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
5 . Since the parties did not wish to lead any evidence in hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
respect of the preliminary issues , arguments of their autho bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 33A 
rised representatives were heard . 

of the said Act filed by Shri Churu Ram which was received 
6 . The main ingradients of Section 33 are : 

by the Central Government on 28th May, 1973 
(a ) that there should be pendency of a dispute ; 

BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWHNY , B . A . (HONS ) CANTAP 
(b ) that the workman should be an affected workman , 

BAR -AT- LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL INDUS 
ie, connected with the dispute ; 

TRIAL TRIBUNAL , CHANDIGARH 
(c ) that the action objected to must be in connection with 
change in servicc conditions prejudicial to the work 

Complaint No. 2 / 27 of 1972 
man ; and 

under section 33 - A of thc Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( d ) that the matter should be connected with the dispute 

Shri Ghuru Ram , Chowkidar, T . No . 573 - A . D ., 
in respect of which reference is pendirig . 

C / B . S .L . Workers Union , Sundernagar. Complainant. 

Vs . 
The contention of the respondent Executive Engineer is that 

Executive Engineer, Ware House Division , 
the action that had been taken against Shri Kalia Ram under 

B . S .L . Project, Sundernagar. 

Respondent. 
clause 17 (a )( ii) of the certified standing orders for non -factory 
staff , read with section 10 of the Payment of Wages Act, Appearances : 
1936 , and that the proper forum for seeking remedy by the 
complainant was either to approach the Labour Court in 

Shri Mohinder Singh - - for the complainant . 
respect of wrongfol deduction of wages or thc Commissioner 

Shri Rattan Lal — for the respondcat. 
Appointed under section 15 of the Payment of Wages Act, 

AWARD 
and that the action which had been taken by the reapondent 
was covered by the certificd standing orders, wherein remedy 

Shri Churu Ram has filed this complaint allcging contra 
had been provided which had not been availed of by the 

vention of the provisions of section 33 - A of the Industrial 
complainant workman , 

Disputes Act, 1947 by the respondent Executive Engineer , 

Ware House Division , B . Ş. L . Project, Sundernagar as accord 
It is not denied by the parties that the dispute that had ing to him , as punishment of pecuniary loss had been inflicted 
been referred for adjudication to this Tribunal in the main upon him without securing prior permission from this Tri 
reference No . 2 / C of 1971 , relates to four demandy, viz : 

bunal before whom reference No . 2 / C of 1971 was pending. 
(1 ) Revision of pay scales of work - charged employees. 

2 . The respondent filed reply to the complaint raising the 
(2 ) Regularisation of services of work -charged employees. following preliminary objections, and on merits the res 
( 3 ) Accident and retrenchment compensation to employees pondent refuted the contentions of the complainant workman . 

drawing more than Rs. 500 per month . 
( 4 ) Introduction of a gratuity scheme. 

Preliminary objections : 
7 . With this back ground , it is to be determined whether 

( 1) That the complaint is bad in law inasmuch as the 
the impugned action taken by the respondent Executive Engl 

conditions of service of the complainant were neither 
neer is in any way connected with the above stated items of 

altered nor he was discharged / dismissed during the 
dispute forming subject matter of reference No. 2 / C of 1971, 

pendency of the industrial dispute before this Tri 
that is pending before this Tribunal. 

bunal. 
The punishment inflicted upon the complainant relates to 
theft of Government property , and it was on that account 

( 2 ) That the instant complaint did not attract the pro 
that the recovery of Rs. 1714 , 90 Paise had been ordered to be 

visions of section 33 - A or 33 ( b ) of the Industrial 
made from his wages after giving him a show cause notice 

Disputes Act, 1947, and for that reason also the 
and after holding an enquiry. 

complaint is not maintainable . 
Obviously theft of Government money is in no way con 

3 . The proceedings were thereafter adjourned for filing 
nected with the items of dispute in reference No . 2 / C of 
1971 . 

of rejoineder , but instead of putting in rejoinder , Shri Mobin 

der Singh , the authorised representatives of the complainant, 
The authorised representaive of the workman has main 

made a statement that the complainant did not wish to pursue 
tained that the complainant wag entitled to seek redressal 

the complaint as they had now found out that the Industrial 
of his grievance from this Tribunal as per provisions of 

Tribunal was not the appropriate authority to take action 
section 33 - A . However, there appears no justification for 

in the mattor. 
the complainant to take shelter under this section in view 
of proviso to section 33(2 )(b ), which reads as under : 

4 . Having regard to the statement of Shri Mohinder Singh , 
" Provided that no such workman shall be discharged 

the authorised representative of the complainant, as repro 
from service, unless he had been paid one month s 

duced above , the complaint is disposed of, as not having 
wages and an application has been made by the 

been pursued and withdrawn . 
cmployer to the Authority before which the pro 

No order as to costs . 
ceedings are pending, for approval of the action 

P . P . R . SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
taken by the employer ." 

[No. L 42012 / 1 / 73 / LRUI] 
Section 33 (2 )(b ) reads : 
" For any misconduct , not connected with the dispute , 
discharge or punish , whether by dismissal or other 

S. O . 1736 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
wise , the workman" — 

Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 

hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
Since misconduct in this case relating to theft of Govern . bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 33A 
ment property committed by the complainant, is not con of the said Act filed by Shri Rup Chand which was received 
pected with any of the matters of the dispute forming subject by the Central Government on 281h May, 1973 . 


- 


- 


- 


Vs. 


was ones Sub Dirhout secuencia 


2206 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

[PART II — 
- - - - - -- - - 

- S 
BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWANY , B . A . (HONS ) CANTAB 

Clo B . S. L . Workers Union , Sundernagar, Complainant. 
BAR -AT -LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL INDUS 
TRIAL TRIBUNAL , CHANDIGARH 

Executive Engineer , Aggregate Production 
Complalut No. 2 / 34 of 1972 

Division , B .S .L . Project, Sundernagar 
Township . 

. . . . Respondent. 
under section 33 - A of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947 
Shri Rup Chand , Chowkidas , Token No. 519 - AB , 

Appearances : 
C /O B . S .L . Workers Union (Regd.) Sundernagar , 

Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar — for the complainant, 
. . . . Complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lal — for the respondent. 
Vs. 

AWARD 
Executive Engineer . 
Ware House Division , 

Shri Kasam Chand has filed this complalot under section 
B . S .L . Project , Sundernagar Township . . . . . Respondent. 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and has inter alla 

stated therein that he had been dismissed from service vide 
Appearances : 

letter No. 2448 /11- E /Steno , dated 15 - 4 - 72 , on mala fide and 
Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar — for the complinant . 

adverse findings of facts given by the enquiry officers, in 
Shri Rattan Lal — for the respondent. 

the absence of any statement of an eye -witness of the incident 

without having secured prior permission of this Tribunal be 
AWARD 

fore whom reference No. 2 / C of 1971, relating to a general 
Shri Rup Chand , Chowkidar , has filed this complaint alleg . 

dispute , was pending in which he was one of the concerned 

workmen . 
ing contravention of the provisions of section 33 - A of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 by tho respondent, inasmuch au 
punishment of pecuniary loss had been infiicted upon him 

2 . The respondent Executive Engineer in the reply to tha 
which according to him was not within the competency of 

complaint has maintained that tho enquiry officer had care 
the Sub Divisional Officer, Store Şub Division , Sundernagar, 

fully considered the charges as also the reply filed by the 
and that this action had been taken without securing prior 

complainant and there was no mala fide intention , that the 
permission from this Tribunal before whom reference No. 2 / C 

enquiry was impartial and there were no extraneous considera 
of 1971 was pending. 

tions , that this Tribunal had been approached for granting 
Approval to the action taken as required under section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) 

of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, that one month s wages 
2 . The respondent filed reply to the complaint raising the bad been paid to the complainant, and that there was no 
following preliminary objections, and on merits the respon contravention of section 33 - A of the Act. 
dent refuted the contentions of the complainant workman . 

3 . In the rejoinder filed to the reply by the respondeni 
Prellminary objections : 

executive Engineer, the complainant has more or less reiterated 

the position taken by him in the complaint and controverted 
( 1) That the complaint is bad in law , inasmuch as thọ the pleas put forward by the respondent Executive Engineer 
condtions of service of the complainant immediately 

in his reply . 
before the commencement of industrial dispute in 
reference No. 2 / C of 1971. were not altered , nor was He has also stated therein that the enquiry oflicer had 
he discharged /dismissed from service during the 

given a perverse and untenablc finding after making tho 
pendency of the industrial dispute before the Tri 
bunal. 

following observations in his report : 

" The only cause of accident is that the Driver made 
(2 ) That the instant complaint did not attract the provi 

error in judgment and the defective steering for 
sions of section 33 (a ) and / or (b ) of the Industrial 

which the vehicle frequently visited the workshop ," 
disputes Act , 1947, and for that reason the com 
plaint was not maintainable . 

which are consistent with the version given by him (the 
complainant ) and also for the reason that there was no cyo 

witness to depose that there was any eye-witness to deposo 
3 . The proceedings were thereafter adjourned for filing that there was any error of judgment, and that the enquiry 
of rejoinder , but instead of putting in any rejoinder , officer had ignored principles of natural by allowing the 
Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar, the authorised representative prosecution to produce Shri Sarvan Kumar, Section Officer 
of the complainant , made a statement that the complainant did 
not wish to pursue the complaint as he had now found out 

is á prosccution witness after the enquiry had been closed . 
that the Industrial Tribunal was not the appropriate authority 

4 . On the pleadings of the parties, the following issue 
to take action in the matter. 

was framed : 

Whether there has been any contravention of the provt 
4 . Having regard to the statement made by Shri Mohinder 

sions of section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
Singh Toggar, the authorised reprcsentative of the complainant, 

1947, inasmuch as the complainant has alleged that 
us reproduced above , the complaint is disposed of as not 

he had been unjustifiably dismissed from servico 
having been pursued and withdrawn, 

during the pendency of reference No. 2 / C of 1971, 
No order as to costs . 

without obtaining approval from this Tribunal ? 


P . P . R . SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 

[No . L . 42012 / 1 /73 /LRIN ] 


$ . 0 . 1737. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Dispute Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Section 
33A of the said Act Alcd by Shri Karam Chand which was 
received by the Central Government on 28- 5 - 1973 . 


5 . The complainant has examined himself as the solitary 
witness and the respondent has also examined only his autho 
riscd representative , Shri Rattan Lal, as a witness . 

The charge -sheet , Ext. C / 1 , dincolses that during the enquiry 
that had been conducted in respect of the damage caused 
to the vehicle , it had been found that due to carelessness in 
driving the vehicle on the wrong side of the road and by 
taking turn at a fast speed damage had been caused to the 
vehicle owned by the B . S . L . Project, which was wrong 
operation of the vehicle as envisaged in item No. XIX of 
section 17 of the certificd standing orders in respect of non 
factory staff . 

Reply that was filed by the complainant to charge -sheet 
is Ext. C / 2 , in which a plea has been taken that the steeriny 
got jamined and brakes did not work as a result of which 
the vehicle struck against the parapet of a bridge, that ho 
was not used to drive that type of vehicle carlier and that 
this vehicle had been going to the workshop many a times , 
which facts could be checked from the records , 


BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWHNY , B . A . (HONS ) CANTAB 
BAR -AT- LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , INDUSTRIAI, TRI 

BUNAL (CENTRAL ) CHANDIGARH 


Coinplaint No. 2 /31 of 1972 


under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Shri Karam Chand , driver, Token No. 341- J, 


Sec . 3 ( ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2207 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


On the basis of the findings of the enquiry officer, Ext 
R / 2 , a show cause notice, Ext . R / 4 , was served upon the 
complainant, which has a mention that one of the two 
charges i.e . driving the vehicle on wrong side of the road 
had been established . Reply C / 3 was put in by the com 
plainant to show causc notice , Ext. R /4 more or less reite . 
rating the stand taken by him in his reply submitted to the 
charge -sheet, 


In this connection it may be stated that there being no 
eye -witness to the occurence, the enquiry officer has based 
his findings on the enquiry committee s report and upon the 
statements of two witnesses who had been produced by the 
prosecution , namely , Sarvshri Avtar Singh and I. R . Kohli , 
S . D . O ., who do not claim to have seen the occurance and 
have made certain assertions based on some assumptions, 
which are not borno out from the material that has been 
placed upon the record . 


(the enquiry officer ) and made statements and the complain 
ant had in that way been deprived of the opportunity of 
cross -exainining them . Mere placing the report of the enquiry 
conimittce before the enquiry officer cannot and should not 
have been taken as findings against the compainant. 

Having regard to what has been stated above, all that has 
been established befor the enquiry officer, and also as per his 
findings is that the accident took place for which the com 
plainant could not be held responsible -- ho having not driven 
the vehicle at a fast speed or having been negligent in any 
manner aud if at all, that there had been bonafide error in 
judgment on his part. 

It nced hardly be reiterated that the findings of the enquiry 
ollicer are not only perverse , but they are also not based 
upon any material that may have been placed on record 
and are in fact based on deposition of the two witnesses that 
have been produced by the prosecution , namely , Sarvashri 
Avtar Singh and I. R . Kohli S . D . O ., Autoshop, Sundernagar , 
who are no witnesses to the occurance 

It is as such held that there was no justification for the 
respondent, Executive Engineer , to have terminated the ser 
vices of the complainant. 


Apart from this, it may be mentioned that it is common 
ground between the parties that reference No . 2 / C of 1971 
Wus pending at the relevant tinc in which the complainant 
ly one of the concerned workmen and no prior permission 
had been taken from this Tribunal beforo the impugned action 
was taken . No doubt, Shri Ruttan Lal, the authorised repre 
sentative of the respondent Executive Engineer, has stated 
that they had applicd separately for granting approval, but 
no such application is traceable from the records. 


Under these circumstances, it is held that there has been 
contravention of provisions of section 33 in terminating tho 
services of the complainant, and the action taken by tho 
respondent is not justified or in order , and that the complain 
ant is entitled to reinstatement with continuity of service and 
paid full back wages . 

No order as to costs. 


The complainant has examined himself before the enquiry 
officer in support of the version given by him in the reply 
to the charge- sheet as well as to the show cause notice, and 
also examined Shri Sher Singh , beldar , who was alleged to 
have been in the truck when the accident took place , as also 
Shri Prem Nath fitter , and they have both stated that tho 
truck was going at a slow speed at the time when the 
occurance took placo. 

It is true that when an enquiry is held and on the basis 
of the report of the cnquiry officer action is taken , it should 
not ordinarily be interferred with simply for the reuşon that 
an other view could be taken than that taken by the. 

However, in the present case an irresistable conclusion seems 
to be that the enquiry officer s findings are on the face of 
them perverse and not sustainable and that there has also 
been violation of principles of natural justice . 

So for violation of principles of natural justice is con 
cerned , it may be stated that it has been mentioned by the 
enquiry Officer himself in his report, Ext. R / 2 , that after 
both the parties had closed their case and the enquiry had 
been concluded , on the request of the prosecution , he had 
allowed thom to examine Shri Sarvan Kumar As A witness . 

This apart, the prosecution was represented by Shri S . C . 
Jain S . D . O ., throughout the enquiry procedings, whereas 
according to the complainant, he was not allowed assistance 
of any one from the Union s side. 

So far as the findings of the enquiry officer being perverse 
is concerned , statement of Shri I. R . Kohli, who had sent 
Shri Avtar Singh to the sport of thc accident, as well as of 
Shri Avtar Singh , disclose that the findings of the enquiry 
officer are not based upon any information imparted by wit 
nesses to the occurence , inasmuch as Shri Avtar Singh has 
stated that the accident in his opinion was due to rash 
driving or some vehicle coming from the opposite direction , 
and Shri I. R . Kohli has stated that he assumed that the 
vehicle was going at a fast specd and while taking turn , it 
struck against parapet of the bridge on the wrong side. 

It may be added in this behalf that the enquiry officer in 
his report, Ext. R / 2 , has stated that taking into consideration 
the statements of Sarvashri Sher Singh and Prem Chand , tho 
charge against the driver that he was driving the vehicle at 
a tast speed was not confirmed , and that the only causo 
of accident was that the driver made an error in judgment 
and defective steering, for which the vehicle visited the work 


P . P . R . SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 

[No. L . 42012 / 1 / 73 / LRIII) 


S .O . 1738 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government 
hereby publshes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 
33A of the said Act Aled by Shri Hariman which was re 
celved hy the Central Government on 28 - 5 - 1973. 


BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWHNY, B . A . (HONS ) CANTAB 
BAR -AT- LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL 

INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CHANDIGARH 


Complaint No. 2742 of 1972 


Under Section 33- A of tho Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Shri Hariman , Beldar, Token No : 225- H , C / B .S .L . 
Workers Union , Sundernagar --- Complaluant. 

Vs. 
Executive Engineer, Bharari Tunelling Division, B . $.L . 

Project, Sundernagar Township - Respondent. 


shop . 


It need hardly be emphasized that the findings of the 
enquiry officer being based on conjectures and not upon 
any material worth the name on record , should not have 
formed basis for the termination of services of the complain 
ant, particularly so when it has been found by the enquiry 
officer himself that the steering was defective , and on that 
account the vehicle visited the workshop frequently and the 
onquiry officer should not have held the complainant was 
rosponsible for making an error in judgment and that in all 
fairness he should have reported that the case was that oť 
simple accident, when no negligence as such had been proved 
on the part of the complainant, which might have justified 
taking the impugned actlon . 

So far as the report of the enquiry committee is concernect , 
the enquiry officer should not have acted upon it as nono 
of the members of the enquiry committee appeared before him 
31 GI / 73 - - 11 


Appenrances ; 

Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar for the complainant. 
Shri Rattan Lal for the respondent. 

AWARD 
Shri Hariman , beldar, has filed this complaint under 
section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947, 
stating therein that his services had been terminated on 
10 - 1 - 72, without securing permission of this Tribunal before 
whom reference No. 2 / C of 1971 was pending, which was 
dono in contravention of the provisions of section 33 - A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 


2 . No reply was filed to the complaint by the authorised 
representative of the respondent Executive Engineer , but 
instead, the authorised representative of the respondent made 


2208 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[PART II 


- - - 


- 


- - - -- 


- 


- 


- - - 


a statement that a decision had been taken to take Shri 
Hariman back in service and to allow him continuity of 
service , without payment of wages for the period he remained 
out of service . 


555-60 / 7 - E /PF , dated 31- 1 - 72 , and that the Tibunal had 
been approached vide letter No: 346 / 7 - E /PF , dated 31 - 1- 72 
for giving approval, after paying one month s wages , and that 
the complaint bo dismissed and approval to terminate the 
services of the complainant be granted . 


Shri Mohinder Singh , the authorised representative of the 
complainant, after hcaring the statement made by Shri Rattan 
Lal, the authorised representative of the respondent Executive 
Engineer , has stated that the complainant did not wish to 
proceed with the complaint, and that it may be disposed of 
as having been settled and withdrawn . 


3 . In the rejoinder the complainant has more or less rel 
terated the position taken by him in the complaint and 
generally refuted the pleas raised by the respondent in the 
reply to the complaint and maintained that the respondent 
Executive Engineer had not moved any application before 
the Tribunal for seeking approval of the action taken , and 
had thereby contravened the provisions of section 33 (2 ) (b ) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , once again . 


3 . Having regard to the statements made by the authorised 
representatives of the parties, reproduced above, the com 
plaint is disposed of as not having been pursued and with 
drawn 

P , P , R , SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 

[No. L . 42012 / 1 / 73 / LRIII ] 


4 . On the pleadings of the partics, the following issue was 
framed : 


Whether the respondent was not justified in terminating 

the services of Shri Jeet Ram , complainant , with 
effect from 24 - 8 - 71 And whether on that account 
there had been contravention of the provisions of 
section 33- A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ? 


$ . 0 . 1739 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Section 
33A of the said Act filed by Shri Jeet Ram which was re 
ceived by the Central Government on 28 - 5 - 1973 . 


Thereafter the partics were allowed to lead their evidence , 
Tho complainant has examined himself as a witness , and 
also Shri Mohinder Singh , his authorised representative . 


BEFORE SHRI P . P . R . SAWHNY , B . A . (HONS ) CANTAB 
BAR -AT-LAW , PRESIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL 

INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CHANDIGARH 


Complaint No. 2 / 16 of 1972 
Under Section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 
Shri Ject Ram , conductor, Token No : 354- F , C / O 

B .S .L . Workers Union , Sundernagar , District Mandi 
( H .P .) . - Complaintant. 

Vs. 
Executive Engineer, B .S .L . Workshop Division , No. 2 

Sundornagar, Township , Mandi ( H .P .).-- Respondent. 


The respondent has examined Shri M . M . Sharma, S .D .O ., 
Workshop Division No. 2 , cnquiry officer , as a witness , 

5 . It is common ground between the parties that Shri Jeet 
Ram , complainant, first filed a complaint and an award was 
given on 22 - 10 -71 by this Tribunal, holding that the com 
plainant be deemed to be in service of the respondent from 
the date the orders were passed terminating his servicce , 1.e . 
on 24 - 8 -71, and he was cntitled to payment of wages duo 
to him from the aforesaid date , and that in view of tho 
reply filed by the respondent, the complaint had become in 
fructuous, and it was disposed of as such , that since the res 
pondent reserved the right to proceed against the complainant 
as per provisions of tho Industrial Disputes Act , 1947, if 
considered necessary, it was open to the respondent to take 
such action in the matter as may be open to him under the 
law , and that such an action should be taken within a 
reasonable period so that there may not be unnecessary gus 
penso and harassment to the complainant. 


Appearances : 

Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar for tho complainant. 
Shri Rattan Lal for the respondent. 


AWARD 


Jeet Ram , conductor, who was working in the 
Workshop Division No. 2 , Sundernagar, under the respon 
dent Exocutive Engineer , has filed this complaint under section 
33- A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947, stating therein 
that when reference No. 2 / C of 1971 was pending since 
4 - 3 - 1972 before this Tribunal in regard to general disputes 
with which he was concerned , 


It is also an admitted fact that after this award had been 
given , again Shri Jeet Ram s services were terminated by the 
respondent on 31 - 1 - 72 . 

The respondent maintains that this had been done after 
an application had been filed on 24 - 8 -71 for approval being 
given to the action taken against the complainant . 

No doubt there is an application on the record , dated 
31- 1 -72 , from the respondent Executive Engineer for appro 
val being given to the action taken in terminating the servicos 
of Shri Ject Ram , but this application for reasons best known 
to the applicant Executive Engineer was not purgued . In any 
case this application is of no consequence as it had been 
submitted nearly 8 months after the date when the im 
pugned action had been taken and as such there has been 
contraveption of tho provisions of section 33 ( 2 )(b ) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 


the respondent had terminated his services on 24 - 8 -71 
of section 33 (2 ) (b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and 
that the respondent Executive Engineer vacated the orders of 
termination of his services and placed him under suspention 
with cffect from 29 - 8 - 71 vide letter No . 6612- 17 / 7E /PF , 
dated 29- 9 -71, annexure B and then again terminated his 
services vide his letter No: 556 - 60 / 7E / PF , dated 29- 9 -71, 
annexture C . 


that this action of the respondent was malafide and unfair 
and that he be granted interim relief, and allowed to resume 
duty till the final decision of the complaint. 


Apart from this, no enquiry seems to have been held a 
second time against Shri Jeet Ram , complainant, before his 
services were ordered to be terminated on 24 - 8 - 71 presum 
ably the action had been taken against on tho basis of en 
quiry held by Shri M . M . Sharma as per proceedings , Ext. 
R / 2 . 


2 . In the reply filed by the respondent Executive Engl 
ncer , it has been admitted that the services of the com 
plainant had been terminated , on 24 - 8 -71, and that the com 
plaint had filed a complaint and the Tribunal had given 
award setting asde the order of his termination of services , 
and it has been added that the award had been complied 
with and thereafter the respondent had proceeded to take 
action against the complainant according to the provisions 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for misconduct after 
completing requirements in respect of work - charged emplo 
yees, and his services had been terniinated vide letter No . 


It may be added that since termination of services of 
Shri Jcct Ram on the basis of the aforesaid enquiry had 
been set aside and even in the award given by thig Tribunal 
it had been left open to the respondent to take action against 
Shri Jeet Ram again , but a fresh enquiry ought to have 
been held and on its basis appropriate action taken . 


Under those circumstances it is unnecessary to go into the 
question whether the enquiry held by Shri M . M . Sharma 
WAS fair or not or that there had been no violation of tho 


Sec. 3 (i ) ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2209 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


date of hearing and the venue of hearing had been duly 
served on the workman applicant in both the cases i.c . the 
caso under Section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) filed by the management 
against the workman and in the present case filed by the 
workman against the management under Section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. 


principles of natural justice . In passing it may , however, be 
mentioned that the complainant has alleged that he had not 
been allowed to examine some documents and registers 
which he demanded during the enquiry proceedings , and this 
fact has been admitted by Shri Sharma that the relevant 
material was not produced by the respondent on the plea 
that it was missing . In that way there is some force in the 
contention of the complainant that the enquiry was not fair 
and just , and that he had been doprived of a very important 
provision on which he could have proved his innocence . 

It is also to be found from the statement of Shri Jeet 
Ram that after the award had been given by this Tribunal, 
the respondent had set aside the orders of termination of his 
services, and that when he had been working for nearly 
three months, his services were again terminated without 
any fresh enquiry having been held . 

With this back ground , the order passed by the respon 
dent in terminating the services of Shri Jeet Ram is not 
sustainable , and it is held that the respondent was not justi 
fied in terminating the services of Shri Jeet Ram with effect 
from 24 - 8 -71, and that there has been contravention of the 
provisions of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
1947 . That being so , Shri Jeet Ram is entitled to be reinstated 
with continuity of service and to also pay to him wagcs for 
the period of un -employment, 
No orders as to costs . 

P . P . R . SAWHNY , Presiding Officer , 

[No. L . 42012 / 1 /73 /LR III] 


3 . On the date fixed for hearing at Camp Gauhati, the 
management appeared but none appeared for the applicant 
workman cither in the present case under Section 33A of 
the I. D . Act or in the other case under Section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) 
of the Act filed by the management against the workman . 
When the present case way called on for hearing the 
management appeared but not the workman . So it is presu 
med that the allegations made in the application under Sec 
tion 331 of the Act by the workman against the manage 
mont are unfounded . Accordingly , there is no dispute on 
the score of allogcd contravention of any provision of Sec 
tion 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act by the 
managemcnt against the applicant Nanu Sen in this pre 
Bent case and the opposite party in the sister case . 


In the result, I render a no dispute award in the present 
case and reject the application under Section 33A of the 
Industrial Dispute Act, 1947. 


This is my award . 


S. N . BAGCHI, Presiding Officer 

[No. L -19025 / 17 / 73-LR II ] 


New Delhi, 7th June , 1973 
S . O . 1740 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the matter of an applica 
tion under Section 33A of the said Act from Sri Nany Sen 
Regd . No . 4992 , Baragolai Colliery , Assam which was 
received by the Central Government on the 31st May, 1973. 


S . O . 1741. — In pursuance of Section 17 of the Indu18 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, No. 1 , Dhanbad , in the 
industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the 
management of South Jharia Colliery , Post Office Jharia , 
District Dhanbad and their workmen , which was reccived , 
by the Central Government on the 31st May , 1973, 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL NO . 1, DHANBAD 
In the matter of a reference under section 10 (1 )(a ) of 
the Industrial Dispules Act, 1947 . 


Reference No. 82 of 1971 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

AT CALCUTTA 
Miscellaneous Application No. 10 of 1972 

(Arising out of Reference No. 154 of 1966 ) . 
Parties : 

Sri Nanu Son , Regd . No. 4992. 
Baragolal Colliery, 
P . O . Baragolai, Dt. Dibrugarh , 
Assam 

Applicau . 

Vs. 
Management of Messrs Assam 
Railway & Trading Co . Ltd ., 
P . 0 . Margherita , Dt. Dibrugarh , 
Assam 

Opp . Party , 
Present : 

Shri S . N . — Presiding Officer . 
Appearance : 

On behalf of Applicant - -Absent 
On behalf of Opp. Party Sri J. K . Ghosh , Advocats , 

with Sri S . P . Sen Gupta , Advocate. 
State : Assam 

Industry : Coal Mine 
AWARD 


Parties : 
Employers in relation to the management of South 
Jharia Colliery , P . O . Jharia , (Dhanbad ). 

AND 
Thoir Workmen . 
Present: 

Mr. Justice D . D . Seth (Retd .) , Presiding Officer. 
Appearances: 

For the Old Management - Shri P . K . Bose, Advocate. 
For the Bhurat Coking Coal Ltd . - Shri S . S . Mukherjee , 

Advocate . 
For the Workmen — Shri G . Prasad , Advocate . 
State : Bihar 

Industry : Coal 
Dhanbad , the 22nd May , 1973 


AWARD 


This is an application under Section 33A of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, arising out of Reference No. 154 of 
1966 containing allegations made before this tribunal, filled 
by one Nanu Sen , Regd . No . 4992 , of Baragolai Colliery , 
against the management of Messrs Assam Railways & Tra 
ding Co . Ltd ., P . O . Margherita , District Dibrugarh , Assam . 

2 . The applicant workman complained contravention of 
Section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act by the 
management. The management entered appearance and gave 
its rejoinder to the workman s application under Section 
33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. On the prayer of the 
workman made in the connected case filed by the inanage 
ment under Section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) of the Act against the work 
man , this case and the sister case referred to above had 
been fixed for hearing at Camp Gauhati. The notice of the 


This is a reference made by the Central Government 
linder section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , by an order No. L / 2012 / 82 /71-LRII dated 
New Delhi, the 13th December , 1971 in respect of an in 
dustrial dispute between the parties mentioned above. The 
subject matter of thc dispute has been specified in the 
schedule to the said order and runs as follows : 


" Whether the action of the management of South 

Jharia Colliery , Post Office Jharia , District Dhan 
bad in stopping from work the workmen noted bc 
low from the dator mentioned against their names 


2210 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[ Part 11 — 


is justified ? If not, to what relief these workmen are 
entitled ? " 


Sl.No. Name of tho Workmen 


Dosigna - 
tion 


Date of 

stoppage 
of Work 


- - 


- 


2 


4 


2 . The reference was received by this Tribunal on 16 - 12 
1971 and, thereafter, usual notices were issued to the parties. 
A notice was also issued to the Custodian şinco the colliery 
had been taken over by the Central Government. On be 
half of the old employers ( hercin - after Called the manage 
ment ) a written statement dated 6 - 3 - 1972 was received in 
this Tribunal the same day and was placed on the record , 
On 24 - 3 - 1972 an application was received from Bharat 
Coking Coal Limited stating that it had no objection to 
being added as a party in the reference . A month s time 
Was prayed for filling a written statement on behalf of 
the Bharat Coking Coal Limited . Accordingly Bharat 
Coking Coal Limited was added as a party to the reference 
and the time prayed for filling written statement was allowed . 
On 1 - 5 . 1972 a written statement on behalf of the Bharat 
Coking Coal Limited was received and was placed on the 
record . A written statement on behalf of the workmen 
dated 26 - 8 - 1972 was rcccived the same day and was placed 
on the record . On 27 - 9 - 1972 five items of documents were 
filed on behalf of the management and an application was 
filed for production of documents of Regional Labour Com 
missioner ( C ) , Dhanbad . Accordingly the record of the 
Regional Labour Commissioner was summoned . A rejoindor 
on behalf of the management in reply to the written state 
ment of the workmen was filed on 25 - 10 - 1972 . Op 30 - 10 
1972 a rejoinder on behalf of the workmen in reply to the 
written statement of the management was received and placed 
on record . On 16 - 11- 1972 Shri G . Prasad, appearing for 
the workmen filed certain documents alongwith a list. On 
30 - 12 - 1972 rejoinder of the workmę, in reply to the written 
statement fled by the Bharat Coking Coal Limited was 
received by the office of the Tribunal. On 11- 1 - 1973 Shri 
G . Prasad , appearing for the workmen files 28 items of 
documents along with the list which were placed on the 
record . Shri G . Prasad also filed an application for pro 
duction of certain documents from the Joint Director of 
Mincs Safety , Regional Labour Commissioner ( C ) , Dhan 
bad and Assistant Secretary , Coal Mines Welfare Commis 
sioner. Accordingly , thosc documents wero called for. On 
22- 1 - 1973 Shri G . Prasad , appearing for the workmen filed 
an application calling for original documents from the office 
of the Jharia Polico Station and also filled an application 
for summoning Shri A . P . Sioba , Assistant Labour Commis 
sioner to appoar before this Tribunal. Accordingly a sum 
mon was issued to Shri A . P . Sinha Assistant Labour Com 
missioner. 


Miner 
- DO 
- Do 
- Do 
-Do 
- Do 
- Do 
-Do 
-Do 
- 190 
- Do 
- Do 
- Do 
- Do -- 
- Do 
- DO 
- Do 
- Do 
-Do 
- Do 
- Do 
-Do 
- Do 
- Do 
-Do 
- Do 
- Do 
- Do 
- Do 
- Do 
- DO 
- Do 


1 Gendo Bhuia . 
2 Dukhan Bhula 
3 Maheshi Bhuia 
4 Tapan Bhuia , . . 
5 Sohan Bhula . . 
6 Kali Bhula , 
7 Dina Bhula No2 
8 Bihari Bhuia . . 
9 Banshi Bhuia . . 
10 Nageshwar Bhula 
11 Shankar Bhuia No 2 
12 Amtrit Bhula 
13 Shiban Bhula . 
14 Mangar Bhuia . 
15 Bideshi Bhuia . 
16 Barhan Bhuia 
17 Kodar Bhula , 
18 Tojo Bhula . 
19 Giridhari Bhuia 
20 Hari Bhula . . 
21 Jiban Bhuia 
22 Rantahal Bhula 
23 Ramswaroop Dusadh 
24 Tulsi Dusadh . 
25 Karu Dusadh . . 
26 MunilalKurini 
27 PyariGope , . 
28 Kalu Chamar 
29 Baleshwar Bhuia 
30 Sanichar Bhuja 
31 Kamdeo Bhula 
32 Laxman Bhuia 
33 Gokul Mahato 
34 Indradeo Dusadh 
35 Ram Swarup Dusadh No 2 
36 Bhulan Bhuia 
37 Ranu Bhuii . . . 
38 Tojo Bhuia No 2 , 
39 Sarjoo Bhula . . 
40 Dzo Nandan Bhuia 
41 Sanu Bhuia , . 
42 Jagdeo Bhula . . 
43 Gobind Bhuia . 
44 Bagu Mochi 
45 Gangadhar Bauri , 
46 Rangoo Bhuia . . 
47 Chamari Dusadh , 
48 Bundi Halwai . . 
49 Chhabi Nath Mochi 
50 Jethu Mochi 
51 Akloo Sao . . 
52 Barho Dusadh 
53 Baldeo Dusadh 
54 Budhan Bhuia 
55 Baleshwar Bhuia . 


21- 1 - 1971 
21 - 1 -1971 
21- 1 - 1971 
21 - 1 - 1971 
21 - 1 - 1971 
21 - 1 - 1971 
23- 1 - 1971 
23 - 1 - 1971 
22 - 1 - 1971 
22 - 1 - 1971 
23- 1 -1971 
23- 1 - 1971 
20- 1- 1971 
22- 1 - 1971 
21- 1 - 1971 
21 - 1 - 1971 
21- 1 - 1971 
22 - 1 - 1971 
21- 1 - 1971 
21 - 1 - 1971 
20 - 1-1971 
20 - 1 - 1971 
20 - 1- 1971 
20 - 1- 1971 
20 -1 - 1971 
21- 1 - 1971 
21-1 - 1971 
21. 1 -1971 
21- 1 - 1971 
21- 1 - 1971 
21- 1 - 1971 
21- 1 - 1971 
21 -1 - 1971 
21- 1- 1971 
21 -1 - 1971 
21- 1 - 1971 
22 -1- 1971 
23 - 1 - 1971 
21. 1 - 1971 
22- 1- 1971 
22- 1 - 1971 
22- 1 - 1971 
21-1 - 1971 
22 -1 - 1971 
22 - 1 - 1971 
21- 1 - 1971 
19 - 1 - 1971 
21- 1 - 1971 
20 - 1 - 1971 
19 - 1 - 1971 
20 -1 - 1971 
21- 1- 1971 
21- 1 - 1971 
21-1 - 1971 
19 - 1- 1971 


-Do 


- Do 
-10 
- Do 
- Do 


. 


Do 


- DO 
- Do 
- Do 
- Do 
- Do 
- DO 
- Do 
- Do 
Traminer 
- Do 
- DO 
- Do 
- Do 
- Do 
-Do 
- DO 
- DO 


3 . On 2 -4 - 1973 , on perusal of the documents filed on 
behalf of the workmen Shri P . K . Bose , appearing for the 
management, did not admit any document while Shri O . 
Prasad on perusal of the documents filed on behalf of the 
management admitted only one document which was marked 
Ext. M 1 . The same day Shri A . K . Banerjco , M . W . 1 
was examined on behalf of the management and he proved 
certain documents which were marked Exts. M 2 to Ext. 
M . 5 . An application was filed by the loarned representa 
tive of the workmen praying for withdrawal of certain 
documents from Reference No. 57 of 1971 and for being 
allowed to fille those documents in the present reference . 
Another prayer made by the workmen was that the stand 
ing orders of the colliery may also be allowed to be with 
drawn from reference No. 57 of 1971. Shri P . K . Bosc , 
thereupon , submitted , that Shri A . K . Banerjee , M . W . 1 
must get an opportunity to go through the documents with 
drawn from tho record of Reference No . 57 of 1971 and , 
thereforo , his cross -examination be fixed for another dato . 
Accordingly 15th May , 1973 was fixed for further Cross 
examination of M . W . 1 with the consent of the partics . 
On 15 - 5 - 1973 Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate appeared for 
the Bharat Coking Coal Limited and Shri P . K . Bose , Ad 
vocato appeared for the old management but neither the 
workmen nor any one else appeared on their behalf. I 
waited for an hour but no intimation was received from 
the workmen or their representative about their absence . 
As a last chance I fixed the case for 21- 5 - 1973 on which 
datc Shri A . K . Banerjee , M . W . 1 was further cross 
examined and he proved Ext. W 1 . On behalf of the work 
men Bundi Ram Halwal, W . W . 1 and H . M . Landey, 
W . W . 2 wore cxamined, cross -examined and were discharged. 
W . W . 2 proved certain documents which were marked Exts 
W 2 to W . 4 . As there was no time left for arguments the 
case adjourned for the next day i.e . 22 - 5 - 1973 . 


4 . The workmen s caso , put briefly , is that the concerned 
workmen are members of the Krantikary Koyala Mazdoor 
Sangh which is the recognised union by the management. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2211 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


7 . In its written statement the Bharat Coking Coal Limi 
ted bas stated thal there did not exist any roiationship of 
employer and employees between the Bharat Coking Coal 
Limited and the concerned workmen at the relevant time 
and hence there was no Industrial dispute between the 
Bharat Coking Coul Limited and the cencerned workmen 
and , As such , no Award can be passed against the Bharat 
Coking Coal Limited which is in no way liable or responsi 
ble for any act of the past management prior to the dato 
of taking over of the colliery under the provisions of Coking 
Coal Mines (Nationalisation ) Act, 1972 . The Bharat Cok 
ing Coal Limited , apart from making these legal submissions 
adopted thc written statement filed by the outgoing em 
ployers on merits . 


The management however , never liked this union since there 
bad been a continuous strugglo between the workmen and 
the management since the inception of this union in regard 
to several matters such as , non -payment of proper wages , 
other legal dues and other matters . The management, ac 
cordingly , became hostile to the recognised union . On 
19 - 1 - 1971 an incident took place outside the premises of 
the colliery . In this incident a member of the staff of 
colliery, whose name was revealed in the coursc of evidence 
as Babulal Gope, Provident Fund Clerk was assaulted by 
bome unknown persons on his way to the market and this 
incident was utilised by the management to get rid of this 
union and other workmen implicated in this case and also 
to get them harassed by the police authorities . Also taking 
advantage of the incident of Babulal Gope the manage 
ment stopped the concerned workmen from their duties be 
tween 19 - 1- 1971 and 23 - 1 - 1971. New workmen from amongst 
the contractor s workmen were recruited immediately by 
the management. The concerned workmen were neither 
charge -sheeted nor were they suspended for their misconduct 
and they have been sitting idle since they were stopped 
from working. According to the workmcn the management 
dld not allow the workmen to resumc work in the colliery 
and this action of the management was not justified and 
amounted to victimisation and unfair labour practice . It 
is stated in paragraph 4 of the workmen s written statement 
that the action of the management in stopping the con 
corned workmen from their work was illegal, unjustificd and 
arbitrary . It also transpired during the evidence that the 
union raised an industrial dispute before the Assistant Labour 
Commissioner ( C ) , Dhanbad and conciliation proceedings 
were started but no conciliation could take place . 


8 . In its rejoinder to the written statement on behalf of 
the workmen the management reiterated that the concerned 
Workmen had absented themselves from their duties and the 
management never stopped them as alleged by the 
workmen . All other statements made in their original 
written statements were reiterated by the management in 
its rejoinder. 


9 . In its rejoinder to the Written statement of the manage 
ment the workmen also reiterated their statements made in 
their original written statement and denied that the concerned 
workmen themselves abandoned their work and did not report 
for their duties. They also denied that the stoppage of work 
by the concerned workmen was due to the rivalry of the two 
unions in the colliery . According to them the concerned 
workmon were illegally and arbitrarily stopped from work by 
the management without any justification or just cause . Ac 
cording to the workmen under paragraph 18 ( n ) of the certi 
fied standing orders of the colliery , as applicuble to the manage 
ment and the concerned workmen , continuous abscnce with 
out permission and without satisfactory cause for more than 
10 days amounts to misconduct, and an elaborate procedure 
is laid down in the standing orders for taking disciplinary 
action). The workmen also denied that they were ever asked 
to submit any cxplanation for their absence by the manage 
ment. They also denied that they did not report for duty 
and further that any notice was affixed on the Notice Board 
or near the main entrance of the Head Office of the colliery , 
According to them the addresses of the concerned workmen 
were known to the management as they were contained in 
the statutory B form register and other statutory registers 
and the managenient was bound , under the standing orders , 
to issue charge -sheets to the workmen , calling for their ex 
planation , make an enquiry after giving reasonable notice but 
the management did not proceed at all under the standing 
orders of the colliery and hence the dismissal of the concern 
cd workmen was illegal, unjustificd and against the principles 
of natural justice . 


10 . The standing orders of the colliery are in the record 
of the Assistant Labour Commissioner ( C ) , Dhanbad . 


5 . The case of the management, on the other hand, is that 
the present matter is not an industrial dispute and , as such , 
is outside the scope of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 
It is also stated that the reference is bad in law and that 
neither the workmen themselves nor the unlon sponsoring 
their case over raised any dispute with the management of 
the colliery about the matter which is the subject matter of 
the reference . In paragraph 5 of the management s written 
statement it is stated that the management can to know 
about the matter only when it received a letter dated 6 - 2 -71 
from the Assistant Labour Commissioner ( C ) , Dhanbad . II 
in which a copy of the representation made by the workmen 
before that officer was enclosed. It is further the case of 
the management that at the relevant period of time there 
were about 400 workmen working in the concerned colliery 
and that there were two rival unions of the workmen in the 
colliery and they were fighting with each other for ousting 
the rival, On 19 - 1 - 1971 it clerk of the colliery was assaul 
ted on the road leading to the colliery and Acid was thrown 
on his face-destroying both the cyes and on account of 
this incident there were great tension between the two 
groups of workers and the police autliorities arrested a 
number of workmen in the afternoon of 20 - 1 - 1971. All 
the arrested workmen belonging to a particular union . Ac 
cording to the management the concerned workmen absented 
themselves from their respective duties without leave or 
without any intimation on various dates beginning from 
19 - 1- 1971 and the management posted a general notice 
dated 1- 2 -71 on the Notice Board giving the names and de 
signations of all the 55 workmen concerned and asked them 
to report for their respective duties immediately along with 
an explanation in writiny regarding the calise of their un 
authorised absciice from their duties . None of the con 
cerned workmen however either reported for duty or sub . 
mitted any explanation to the management. The manage 
ment did not start departmental proceedings for misconduct 
and breach of contract against the concerned workmen on 
account of the pendency of the conciliation proceedings . 
The management s further case is that it never 
stopped the concerned workmen from performing their 
duties and that the concerned workmen themselves 
absented from their work and hence the present matter is 
a caso of abandonment of their work by the workmen them . 
selves . It is stated in paragraph 9 of the management s 
written statement that the union which sponsored the cause 
of the concercncd workmen was a recognised union by the 
colliery and , as such , the management could not have any 
malice against the activities of thc union or against its 
members. 


11. The preliminary objection of Shri P . K . Bose, Advo 
cate appearing for the management is that the present matter 
is not an industrial dispute as neither the workmen nor tho 
union sponsoring their cause ever raised any dispute with 
the inanagement which is in ipsum in the present reference 
and hence the 1cference is without jurisdiction and is bad 
in law . In this connection Shil P . K . Bose , examined Shri 
A . K . Banerjee , ( M . W . 1 ) , Agent of the colliciy from 1956 
till 1971 i. e . till the taking over of the colliery by the Gov 
ernment. Shri Banerjee stated that there were two trade 
unions in the colliery and that out of the two Krantikary 
Koyala Mazdoor Sangh was the recognised union . Accord 
ing to him that union did not raise uny dispute with the 
management at any time. The witness denied that the 
management had set up a rival union against the Krantikary 
Koyala Mazdoor Sangh . The witness deposed about the 
incident of Shri Babulal Gope, Provident Fund Clerk on 
19 - 1 - 1971 and stated that there was great quarrel between 
the two unions about the incident as a result of which the 
police authoritics arrested some workmen . The witness 
further stated that he , on behalf of the management, had not 
authorised anybody to Jodyc il F .I. R . about the incident of 
Babulal Gope with the police . According to Shri Bancrice , 
large number of workinen absented themsclves from the 
colliery after the incident and the witness (MW 1 ) issued 
notice dated 1 - 2 - 1972 which bears his signature . This notice 
was issued against the 89 workmen and was posted on the 
Notice Board . Thosc 89 workmen named in the notice 


6 . The management contended that the concerned work 
men were victims of trade union rivalry between the two 
unions of the colliery for which the management could not 
be penalised . 


2212 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


(PART II 


included thọ names of the concerned 55 workmen . This 
notice was proved by M . W . 1 and was marked Ext. M , 2 , 
According to Shri A . K . Banerjee , by this notice, the manage 
ment had asked the workmen to report for their respective 
duties. Ext. M 2 was exhibited on the Notice Board . Shri 
Bancrjee , M . W . 1 further stated that between the date of 
incident i.c . 19- 1 - 71 and 17 - 10 - 1971 when the collery was 
taken over by the Central Government the concerned work 
men did not approach him regarding any dispute and neither 
of the two unions in the colliery hud raised any dispute . The 
witness denied that the management had stopped the work 
men from working. 


he had gone to the manager to collect his dues. In cross 
examination by Shri P . K . Bose Shri Bundi Ram stated that 
he lived in the colliery premises in one of the quarters and 
he continued to stay in the quarter for one year after he 
had been stopped from work and thereafter he left the 
quarter. He lived for one year without work on his savings 
and by selling the ornament of his wifo . The witness ad 
mitted that he could not read English and also admitted that 
he would be able to read a document in Hindi, 
He reiterated that he and other workmen had been stopped 
from work in the colliery with effect from 19- 1 - 1971 . The 
witness admitted that he has got a receipt of the payment 
of his subscription of the Krantikary Koyala Mazdoor Şangh 
at his house but he has not brought it before this Tribunal. 
The witness denied that he knew as to which party was con 
cerned in the incident to Babulal Gope . The witness did 
not remember that he was a member of I. N . T . U . C union 
organised by Shri Janki Singh between 1963 to 1967. He 
algo denied that there was dispute between the two unions 
in the colliery in 1967 or thereafter . He further denied that 
the incident to Babulal Gope took place as a result of rivalry 
of the two unions but admitted that thc persons who had 
been arrested by the Police Authorities after the incident to 
Babulal Gope belonged to the union of which the witness 
was a member . 


12 . In cross- examination the witness stated that the incl. 
dent to Shri Babulal Gopo took place outside the premises 
of the colliery and that thic colliery management did not filc 
any report regarding the incident with the police authorities. 
The witness was not present at the time and place of occur 
rence when Babulal Gope was assaulted . The incident to 
Babulal Gope took place sometime in the evening at 
8 . 0 Clock . The witness stated that he did not know the 
name of the person who had lodged the F . I. R . on 19 - 1 - 1971. 
He also did not know if the F . I. R . was lodged by Shri 
Sarvjeet Singh who was the Personnel Officer in the colliery 
on 19 - 1 - 1971. The witness admitted that there were stand 
ing orders in the colliery but did not remember if he issued 
any chargesheets to the concerned workmen who absented 
themselves from their duties and also did not call for any 
explanation from the workmen for their absence . The wit 
ness deposed that he only posted the notice on the Notice 
Board in which the workmen were requested to join their 
duties but they did not join . The witness admitted that he 
did not send copies of that notice to the individual workmen 
at their homo addresses although statutory B form register 
was maintained in the colliery and in that register addresses 
of all workmen were mentioned but thc witness did not go 
through the register. The witness admitted that according to 
paragraph 18 ( n ) of the standing orders of the colliery if the 
workmen absented themselves from their duties continuously 
for more than 10 days without permission that would have 
ainounted to misconduct. The witness also admitted that 
conciliation procecdings were started by the conciliation 
officer in regard to the dispute of the present concerned 
workmen in this reference . Witness was shown a letter 
dated 22 - 2 - 1971 and stated that this letter which was in the 
file of the Regional Labour Commissioner was written by 
the witness and boro bis signature. This letter was marked 
Ext. W 1. 


13 . At this stage It is partinent to observe that the witness 
did not speak of any letters of dismissal which were issued 
to the workmen till the date of his deposition before the 
Tribunal 


14. On bchalf of the workmen two witnesses were examin 
ed. W . W . 1 is Bundi Ram Halwai. He stated that he had 
been working in the colliery since 1959 but he is not work 
ing at present. He used to do the work of a trammer . He 
is a member of the Krantikary Koyala Mazdoor Sangh , 
having become its member in 1967 and is still a member of 
that union . Bundi Kam deposed that on 21- 1 - 1971 he went 
to the colliery to report for his duty and had gone to the 
attendance clerk who told him that there was no work for 
him . Along with Bundi Ram several other workmen had 
gone to the attendance clerk at the same time and all these 
workmen were stopped from working . Thereaftor , Bundi 
Ram and the other workmen went to the Manager of the 
colliery who told them that since they were members of the 
red flag union , there was no work for them . Thereafter 
Bundi Ram and other workmen went to the office of the 
union and approached Shri H . M , Landey the Secretary of 
the union . Shri Bundi Ram stated that he again went 
to the colliery for work and continued to do so for 15 
days but his attendance was not recorded . All the other 54 
workmen also went for work for 15 days. The witness de 
nicd that he saw any notice on the notice board in the col 
liery and stated that the Manager of the colliery had not 
served any charge - sheet on him or had not served any docu 
ment terminating his services in the colliery. He also denied 
that he and other workmen themselves stopped going to their 
work and deposed that, at present, he is sitting idle . Bundi 
Ram admitted that there are two unions in the colliery . 
The second union of which he was not a member belonged 
to I. N . T . U . C . The witness stated that he is still ready to go 
to the colliery for work and he further stated that the 
Manager of the colliery did not pay him his dues, although 


15. Shri H . M . Landey is W . W . 2 . He is the Secretary 
of Krantikary Koyala Mazdoor Sangh . He named the 
different collieries in which his unlon is functioning. The 
witness had been thọ Secretary of the Krantikary Koyala 
Mazdoor Sangh since 1968 and stated that there were about 
300 to 400 workmen working in the concerned colliery 
who were members of his union . Whenever there was any 
dispute between his union and the management he used to 
look after the correspondence . The witness stated that all 
the 55 concerned workmen in this reference , after they had 
been stopped from work , had appi oached him and thercafter 
the witness had a telephonic conversation with the Manager 
of tho collicry who told the witness that he had received 
orders from the Proprietors of the colliery not to allow the 
workmen to work . The witness was shown a letter which 
he wrote to the Manager about the stoppage of work of the 
concerned workmen and stated that a true copy of this letter 
was filed before the Tribunal sometime ago . This letter 
was marked Ext. W 2 . Shri Landey further stated that he 
wrote to the Conciliation Officer regarding the industrial dis 
pute between the management and the union and that letter 
was dated 27 - 1 - 1971. That document is also on the record 
of the Regional I abour Commissioner . That document was 
marked Ext . W 3 . According to the witness, during the 
pendency of the conciliation proceedings he had no talk 
with the management in regard to the present dispute . Tho 
letler which the witness had sent to the Manager of the col 
liery had been sent on a Pcon Book . The witness proved 
the Pcon Book which was marked Ext. W 4 . Shri Landey 
also stated that the relations of his union with tho manage 
ment were not very cordial because there had been several 
settlements between the union and the management but tho 
management had not implemented these settlements and fur 
ther the Proprietors of the colliery did not use to pay the 
workmen according to the Wage Board Recommendations. 
The witness described the assault on Babulal Gope and stated 
that this assault slid not take place as a result of rivalry 
between the two unions in the collicry . According to the 
witness , although his name was implicated in the incident to 
Babulal Gope , but 110 criminal case was started against him . 
The witness stated that the workmen did not report to him 
that they had been served with the charge -sheets by tho 
management. Babulal Gopo was not a member of the 
union of the witness . After the workmen had been stopped 
from working the witness had no discussions either with the 
Agent or the Proprietors of the collicry . The witness stated 
that there is a Code of Discipline applicable to the Coal 
Mining Industry and admitted that he had not reported about 
the stoppage of work of the 55 concerned workmen to the 
Board of Code of Discipline. Shri Landey further deposed 
that some employees of the collicry were arrested after the 
incident to Babulal Gope but they were subsequently releas 
cd on bail, and admitted that all the arrested persons were 
members of his union. The witness denied that there were 
frequent clashes between his union and the other union in 
the colliery and also denied that several workmen left the 
colliery themselves on account of a clash between the two 
rival unions as a result of the incident to Babulal Gope . He 
reiterated that it was the management whọ stopped the 55 
workmen concerned in this reference from their work and 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2213 


a 


- - 


- 


that the stoppage of work was not duc to the reason that 
the workmen themselves had abandoned their work for fear 
of being aassaulted by the rival union . 

16 . I have heard the learned representatives of the partics . 
Shri P . K . Bose , appearing for the management, did not press 
the preliminary objections raised in the written statement of 
the management that the prescnt matter is not an industrial 
dispute as neither the workmcn nor the union sponsoring 
their case ever raised any dispute with the management 
which is in Issue in the present reference and hence the ref 
erence is without jurisdiction and is bad in law . Con 
sequently it is not necessary to discuss that point, 

17, Shri P . K . Bogo merely pointed out certain discrepan 
cles in the deposition of Bundi Ram Halwal, W . W . 1 and 
submitted that his testimony cannot be believed , Sbri P . K . 
Boge submitted that Bundi Ram Halwai, W . W . 1 should 
have approached the Propritors of the collicry when the 
Manager had stopped him and other 54 concerned workmen 
from working in tho colliery specially when he deposed that 
the Proprietors visited the colllery every two or threc months. 
Shri P . K . Bose further contended that the assertion of W . W . 1 
that the Manager of the colliery had stopped him and other 
workmen from working is not mentioned in the statement of 
the case which tho workmen submitted before the Concilia 
tion Authorities , I have given careful thought to the submis 
sions mado by Shri P . K . Boso but, in my opinion , the dis 
crepancies pointed out by him in the testimony of Bundi Ram 
Halwal, W . W . 1 are not fatal to the case of the workmen . It 
must be remembered that Bundi Ram Halwal, W . W . 1 was 
making a statement before the Tribunal almost after 2 1 / 2 
years of the incident to Babulal Gope and he could not be 
expected to be very exact . 


cording to the management the concerned workmen absented 
themselves from their duties between 19 - 1 -71 and 23 - 1 - 71 and 
a notico is said to have been posted by the management on 
tho Notice Board on 1 - 2 - 71 i.e . more tban 10 days after the 
dato of the absence of the workmen , Paragraph 18 of the 
standing orders deals with disciplinary action for misconduct 
And states that a workman may be suspended or fined or his 
Increment may be stopped , or ho may be demoted or dismis 
sed without notice, if he is found guilty of misconduct and 
sub -paragraph ( a ) of paragraph 18 says that continuous ab 
sence without permission and without satisfactory cause for 
more than ten days would be a misconduct. Even we assumo 
that the workmen themselves absented from their work with 
out intimation to thọ management no disciplinary action seems 
to have been taken against them as has been clearly admit 
ted by Shri A . K . Banerjee, M . W . 1 No charge-sheets were 
served on the workmen who aro said to have stopped work 
and no explanation was asked for from them . There is no 
provision in the standing orders of the colliery for posting a 
notice on the Notice Board as stated by M . W . 1. If the work 
men had themselves stopped from work , notices ought to have 
been issued to them and they should have been chargesheeted 
and a domestic enquiry should have been held . Addresses of 
all the workmen were known to the management because sta 
tutory from B register is admittedly maintained in hc colliery 
but nothing of the kind was done . If the workmen had really 
absented themselves without having obtained leavc or without 
having any intimation to the management, even though the 
conciliation proceedings were going on , the management could 
have taken action against the workmen under section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act with the express permission in 
writing of the authority before which the proceedings were 
pending 


18 . Shri P . K . Bose next submitted that the standing orders 
of the colliery are not mandatory in nature and it was not 
necessary for the colliery authorities to havo sent individual 
notices to all the 55 workpien concerned asking them to re 
port for their work . According to Shri P . K . Bose the manager 
ment had no ulterior motive to penalise the concerned work 
men specially when thoir union was recognised by the colliery. 
There is no force in this contention . It has been admitted 
by Shri A . K . Banerjee , M . W . 1 that according to the standing 
ordors of the colliery , if the workmen absented themselves for 
more than 10 days it would amount to misconduct and he 
further admitted that the management did not follow the 
procedure prescribed in paragraph 18 of the standing orders 
and that no charge- shcets were issued to the workmen and no 
explanations were called for from the workmen for their 
absenco without intimation to the authorities . I have gone 
through the standing orders and I find that there is no provl 
sion in the standing orders for displaying a notice on the 
Notice Board as stated by Shri A . K . Banerjce , M . W . 1 . Shri 
A . K . Banerjee , M . W . 1 has admitted that statutory form B 
register is maintained in the colliery which contains the names 
and addresses and other particulars of all the concorned 
workmen . It has also been admitted that no letters of dismis 
sal were issuled to the workmen till the date of the deposition 
by Shri A . K . Banerjec . 


22 . It is not the case of the management, as it is not stated 
In its writen statemen that any one of the concerned workmen 
assaulted Shri Babulal Gopo on 19 - 1 - 71 . It has also been 
stated by M . W . 1 that the matter was not reported to the 
Police authorities by the management. We, however , find from 
a certified copy of the First Information Report which is dated 
19 - 1 -71 that a complaint was lodged wih the Police Authori 
tics with regard to the incident on 19 - 1 -71 by Shri Sarvaject 
Singh , Labour Officer of the colliery . The First Information 
Report also contains names of some accused persons. Tho 
existenco of the First Information Report lodged in respect 
of the incident which took placo outsido the colliery on 19 - 1 
1971 was denied by M . W . 1. It is therefore not possible to 
place reliance on his statement. The case of the manugement 
is that the workmen themselves stopped working in the col 
liery with effect from 20 - 1 - 71 . If the workmen had really ab . 
sented themselves from work , there are provisions in the 
standing orders of the colliery under which action could have 
been taken against the workmen by the management. It hag 
been admitted by M . W . 1 that neither any chargeshcet nor any 
letter was işgued to the workmen regarding the stoppage of 
their work . According to the Supreme Court s decision in Work 
men Employed in B & C Mills , Madras and Management of 
B & C Mills, Madrag, 1969 ( 19 ) F . L . R . P . 253, standing 
orders are part of statutory terms and condition of service 
between employer and employees and they govern the relation 
between ho partios, 


19 , Shri Bundi Ram Halwai, W . W . 1 is one of the concern 
od workmen . There is no reason for me to disbelicve his 
testimony that he had approached the Manager of the col 
tiery for work after the incident to Babulal Gope but his at 
tendance was not recorded by the Attendance Clerk . Bundi 
Ram Halwai, W . W . 1. knows only Hindi and it is too much to 
expect that he would approach the Proprietors of the colliery 
after the Manager had told him that he would not be glven 
work in the colliery . He denied that he and other workmen 
had stopped going to work voluntarily . 

20 . The testimony of Bundi Ram Halwai, W . W . I has been 
corroborated by Shri H . M . Landey , W . W . 2 , Secretary of the 
Krantikary Koyala Mazdoor Sangh , 


23. Shri P . K . Bose contended that the present care is a 
case of abandonment of work by the workmen themselves 
and not stoppage of work by the authoritics of the colliery . 
There is no force in this contention also . If the workmen in 
the persent reference had gone on leave and had been absent 
from 8 consecutive days without leave there could be possibly 
A case of abandonment of employment as per the decision of 
tho Supreme Court in Buckingham & Carnatic Co . Ltd ., and 
Venkatiah and anoher reported in ( 1950 — 67 ) J. S . C .L . T P . 6 , 
In the instant case the workmen had not procecded on leave 
and had not absented themselves for more than 8 days . The 
present dispute beforo me is, therefore , clearly a case of stop 
page of work by the management and is not a case of aban 
donment of work by the workmen . Shri P . K . Bose , in sup 
port of his contention , placed reliance on a decision of the 
Calcutta High Court in Bhaskar Mukherjee and another versus 
Nilmoni Nath , ( 1962-63 ) 23 P .J . R . P . 158 in which it was 
held as follows : 


21. The next contention of Shri P . K . Bose is that the con 
cerned workmen themselves stopped doing their work in the 
colliery with effect from 19 - 1 - 71 and the management was 
not responsiblo for the stoppage of work . It was contended by 
Shri Bose that if that had been the fact an issue should have 
been raised by tho workmen before the Board of the Code of 
Disciplino. It was contended by Shri Boge that the workmen 
absented themselves without obtaining leave from the mana 
gement or without giving any intimation to it. It is difficult to 
imagine that in these hard days of unemployment a large 
number of workmen would havo abgented themselves from 
their respective work in the colliery without any reason , AC 


" If a servant wilfully absents himself from duty for a 

long period without giving notice to the employer , ho 
cannot get his pay for the period of absence cspecial 
ly if the absence is refereable to some act of dis 
obedience . Such abstention from duty will operato 


2214 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAJSTHA 26 , 1895 


[PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 

. 


- 


- 


. 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


A9 yoluntary termination of service by the employed 
and no formal order of discharge on the part of the 
employer would be necessary " . 


In view of my findings above the decision of the learned 
Slagle Judge of the Calcutta High Court relief upon by Shri 
P . K . Bose is not applicable to the facts of the instant cage . 
Here the concerned workmen did not wilfully absent them 
selves from duty for a long period without giving notice to 
the management. As has already been stated above, according 
to paragraph 18 of the standing orders of the colliery If the 
workmen had absented themselves from work without leave 
or intimation to the management their conduct would be a 
misconduct for which suitable action could be taken by the 
management. 


24 . For the reasons mentioned above I hold that the work 
men did not abgent themselves from work but were stopped 
from working by the management and such action of the 
management was malafide since no disciplinary action was 
taken against the workmen by the management which could 
have been taken under paragraph 18 of the standing orders 
of the colliery , Action could also have beçn taken with tho 
permission of the Conciliation Authorities under section 33 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act. Sinco no registered notices or 
notices even by ordinary post were sent to the concerned 
workmen individually asking them to report for their work , 
the conduct of the management must bo held to be malafide 
( Seo decision of the Supreme Court in Tata Oil Mills Co, Ltd ., 
and their workmen 1966 ( 13 ) F . L . R . P . 65) . 


29 . The Bharat Coking Coal Ltd ., being the successor in 
interest of tho South Jharia Colliery , on the principlo laid 
down by the Supreme Court in Bihar State Road Transport 
Corporation and State of Bibar and another (reported in 
1970 ( 1 ) L . L .J. P . 138 ) necessary direction for reinstate 
ment and payment of back wages sball have to be passed 
against the Bharat Coking Coal Ltd .,, The facts of the case 
before the Supreme Court just cited above were as follows : 
" The Government of Bihar was conducting through one of 
its departments, called the Rajya Transport Authority , an 
undertaking of road transport in the State . The conccmed 
workman was appointed on 27 - 7 - 56 by the said authority . 
On April 20 , 1959 , the State Government set up as from 
May, 1 , 1959 a Corporation known as Bihar State Road 
Transport Corporation to exercise all the powers and per 
form all the functions which were till then being exercised 
and performed by the Rajya Transport Authority . The said 
authority passed an order dated February 8 , 1959 terminat 
ing the services of the concerned workman . An industrial 
dispute having been raised , it was referred to the Labour 
Court by an order dated February 24 , 1961, impleading the 
Corporation as one of the parties to the reference . The 
Labour Court held that the order of dismisgal was not 
Justified and concluded that the concerned workman was 
deemed to have continued in the service of Rajya Transport 
and thereafter of the Corporation as the succossor in title 
of the Rajya Transport and , on this basis , directed the 
Corporation to reinstate the concerned workman in his ser 
vice and pay compensation from February to September, 
1959 . The Corporation , thereupon , filed an application under 
Article 226 of the constitution before the Patna High Court 
contending inter - alia , that the services of the concerned 
workman , having been terminated before the Corporation 
was not set up, his remedy lay against the Rajya Transport 
and not against the Corporation . The Writ petition was 
rejected by the Patna High Court. On appeal the Supremc 
Court substantially uphold the decision of the Labour Court, 
The Supreme Court treated the Corporation as the successor 
In Interost of the Rajya Transport authority and held that 
the concerned workmen , in the absence of any valid termi 
nation of his service , continued to be in the service of the 
Corporation since May 1, 1969 and that therefore , the Cor 
poration was bound to pay his wages with all emoluments 
from May 1, 1959 , The Supreme Court further held that for 
the period from February to April 1959 the Rajya Transport 
Authority was liable to pay his wages and other emoluments, 
but the Corporation as successor -in - interest of the said au 
thority became liable to pay wages for the period from Feb 
ruary to April , 1959 and not from February to September, 
1959 as directed by the Labour Court. 


25 . For the reasons mentioned above it must be held that 
the action of the management in stopping the concerned 
workmen from their respective work with effect from the dates 
mentioned against their names in the schedule was not justi 
fled and the workmen must be deemed to have been in con 
tinuous service of the colliery till the right , title and interest of 
the owners of the colliery vested absolutely in the Central 
Government under section 4 of the Coking Coal Mincs 
(Nationalisation ) Act, 1972 with effect from 1 - 5 - 1972 . 


26 . Now I come to the question of relief. Since the right, 
title and interest of the old management of the colliery ceased 
to exist with effect from 1- 5 - 1972 and vested in the Central 
Government and since the workmen have been held to have 
continued in their service , it is only the Bharat Coking Coal 
Ltd ., which can reinstate them in service , 


27. Shri S . S . Mukharjee , appearing for Bharat Coking Coal 
Ltd ., contended that on the date the industrial dispute is 
said to have arisen , there was no relationship of employer 
and employecs between the Bharat Coklag Coal Ltd ., and 
the workmen and hence the Bharat Coking Coal Ltd ., are 
not concerned with the dispute . Shri Mukherjec drew my 
attention to section 9 of the Coking Coal Mines (Nationali 
sation ) Act, 1972 , the relevant portion of which runs as 
follows:-- - 


" 9 ( 1 ) Every liability of the owner , agent, manager , or 

managing contractor of a coking coal mine or coke 
oven plant , in relation to any period prior to the 
appointed day, shall be the liability of such owner , 
Agent, manager or managing contractor, as the case 
may be, and shall be enforceable against him and 
not against the Central Government or the Gov 
ernment Company . . .. 


( a ) . .. .... . 


30 . Shri S . S . Mukherjee tried to distinguish the case of 
Bihar State Road Transport by contending that in that case 
Rajya Transport and the Corporation set up by the Bihar 
Government were the limbs of the same authority and honce 
that decision is distinguishable . I am afraid , I cannot agree 
to this contention . The principle of law laid down by the 
Supreme Court in the caso of Bihar State Road Transport 
Corporation is fully applicable in the instant case. The right, 
title and interest of South Jharla Colliery have vested in 
the Bharat Coking Coal L.td ., with effect from 1st May, 1972 
by virtue of section 4 of the Coking Coal Mines (Nationa 
lisation ) Act, 1972 . Section 17 ( 1 ) of the said Act lays down 
that every person who is a workman within the meaning 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , and has been , Imme 
diately before the 1st of May , 1972 in the employment of a 
coking coal mine shall become on and from the appointed 
day an employec of the Government company . In the pre 
sent casc, Bharat Coking Coal Ltd ., in which the right , title 
and interest of the colliery havo veated and the workmen shall 
hold service in the mine on the same terms and conditions 
and with thç same rights to pension , gratuity , and other 
matters as would have been admissible to them if the rights 
in respect of such a mino had not vested in the Government 
company, Ag it has been found by me that the workmen 
had been stopped from working in the colliery illegally by 
tho old management, the concerned workmen continued and 
still continuo to be in service of Bharat Coking Coal Ltd . , 
since 1st May , 1972 mnd , therefore , the Bharat Coking Coal 
Ltd ., la bound to pay their wages including all the emolu 
ments to which they are entitled as from 1 -5 - 72 . For the 
period from the date of stoppage of work i.e . 19- 1 -71 to 
23 - 1 -71 till 30 - 4 - 72 , South Tharia Collicry are liable to pay 
the wages of the workmen and other cmoluments to which 


(b ) no Award , decree or order of any court, tribunal 

or other authority in relation to any coking coal 
mine or coke oven plant passed after the appoint 
ed day , but in relation to any matter, claim or dis 
pute which arose before that day , shall be enforce 
able against the Central Government or the Gov 

ernment Company, 
(c ) no liability for the contravention of any provision 

of law for the time being in force , made before 
the appointed day, shall bo enforccable against the 
Central Government or the Government Com 
pany" . 


28 . It may be noted that thoro is no provision in section 
9 quoted above against making of an award . 


- - - - - 


- - - 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- - 


- - - - 


- - - 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2215 
- - - . . 
they are entitled . The Bharat Coking Coal Ltd ., as succes 
sor in interest of the said colliery also became liable to 
pay the said wages from 20- 1 - 71 to 30 - 4- 72 vide 1970 (II ) ( 2 ) विवाद के पक्षकारो का विवरण 1. घ्याम बांध प्रायोजना तलवाड़ा 
L. L .J . P . 138 . 

जिसमे अंतर्वलित स्थापन या मस्मा, जिला होशियारपुर 
31. I accordingly make the following award : 

उपक्रम का नाम और पता भी 
The action of the management of South Jharia Colliery , 

सम्मिलित है । 
Post Office Jharia , District Dhanbad , in stopping from work 
the concerned 55 workmen with effect from the dates men 

( 3 ) यदि कोई संघ प्रश्नगत कर्म - श्रमिक यूनियन म्याम बाँध प्रायोजमा 
tioned against their names was not justified . The said work 

कारो का प्रतिनिधित्व करता 
men are to be reinstated with continulty of service by the 

तलवाला फस्या जिला होशियार 
management for the time being i. e. by the Bharat Coking 

हो तो उसका नाम 
Coal Ltd ., and the said company shall be liable tº pay 
their wagcs and other emoluments with effect from 1 - 5 - 72 . ( 1 ) प्रभावित उपक्रम में नियोजित 16, 000 ( प्रग्नि शमन सेवा में 
The concerned workmen are also entitled to get their hack 
wages from 19 - 1 -71 till 30 -4 - 72 and the South Jharia Col 

कर्मकारों की कुल संख्या 

प्रायोजना में केवल 35 कर्मकार 
Jiery and Bharat Coking Coal Ltd ., are jointly and severally 

नियोजित है ) । 
liable to pay the samo to the workmen concerned . 
32 . Let a copy of this award be forwarded to the Central 

( 5 ) विवाद द्वारा प्रभावित या 35 
Government under section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act , सम्भाव्यत: प्रभावित होने वाले 
1947 . 

कर्मकारों की प्राक्कलित संख्या । 
D . D . SETH , Presiding Officer 
____ ( No. L- 2012/82/ 71-LRII ) 

( हम यह करार भी करते है कि मध्यस्थ का विनिश्चय हम पर पाबम 
आदेश 

कर होगा । मध्यस्थ प्रपना पंचाट तीन मास की कालावधि या इतने 
का० प्रा० 1742 यत . ब्यास बाध प्रायोजना , तलवाड़ा से संबंस 

पौर समय के भीतर जो हमारे बीच पारस्परिक करार लिखित द्वारा 
नियोजकों और कर्मकारो के बीच , जिनका प्रतिनिधित्व श्रमिक यूनियन , न्यास 

बढ़ावा जाय देगा । यदि पूर्व वणित कालावधि के भीतर पंचाट नही दिया 
बाध प्रायोजना, तलयाड़ा कस्बा जिला होशियारपुर करती है, एक प्रौद्योगिक 

जाता तो माध्यस्थम् के लिए निवेश स्वतः रद्द हो जायगा और हम नए 
विवाद विद्यमान है । 

माध्यस्थम् के लिए मातचीत करने को स्वतंत्र होंगे ) । 

पक्षकारो के हस्ताक्षर 
और यत. उक्त नियोजकों और कर्मकारों ने प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 

नियोजको का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले ह : /- सरवारी लाल , कार्यकारी 
1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10-क की उपधारा ( 1 ) के उपबंधों के 
अनुसरण मे एक लिखित करार द्वारा उक्त विवाद को उसमे वर्णित व्यक्ति के माध्य 

इंजीनियर, कामिक , व्यास बांध 
स्थम् के लिए निर्देशित करने का करार कर लिया है और उक्त माध्यस्थम् करार 

प्रायोजना, तलवाड़ा 
की एक प्रति केन्द्रीय सरकार को भेजी गई है । 

कर्मकारो का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले ह : ।-दौलत सिंह चौहान , 
प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10- क की उपधारा ( 3 ) के 

2 - 5- 73 
उपबन्धों के अनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त माध्यस्थम् करार को , 

महा सचिष, श्रमिक यूनियन , 

ब्यास बांध प्रायोजना , तलवाड़ा 
जो उसे 28 मई, 1973 को मिला था , एतद्द्वारा प्रकाशित करती है । 

कस्बा । 
(करार ) 
( प्रौद्योगिफ विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 की धारा 10-क के अधीन ) 

1. हः-कुलदीप सिंह , 
के मीच 

कामिक अधिकारी , म्यास बाध प्रायोजना, तलवाड़ा करना । 
पक्षकारों के नाम 

2. ह.-किरण सोनी । 
नियोजको का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले श्री सरदारी लाल , पी० एस० ई० , 

( सख्या एल- 42012- 207- 2 एल० मार०-ii ) 
प्राई० कार्यकारी इंजीनियर -- - 
कार्मिक , ग्यास बांध प्रायोजना , 

ORDER 
तलवाड़ा । 

SO1742 : - Whereas an industrial dispute exists between 

the employers in relation to Beas Danı Project , Talwara and 
कर्मगारों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाल श्री दौलत सिंह चौहान , 

its workmen represented by Workers Union , Beas Dam Projct , 

Talwara Township , District Hoshiarput 
महा सचिव , श्रमिक यूनियन , ब्यास 

And , whereas the said employers and workmen have , by a 
बाध, तलवाड़ा कस्बा । 

written agreement, in pursuanco of the provisions of sub - section 
___ पक्षकारों के बीच निम्नलिखित प्रौद्योगिक विवाद को श्री एस० 

( 1 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 14 of 

1947) , agreed to refer the said dispute to arbitration by the person 
एन मोहन्ती, सहायक श्रमायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), नई दिल्ली के मध्यस्थम् के लिए specified therein , and a copy of the said arbitration agreement 

has been forwarded to the Central Government, 
एतद्वारा निर्शित करने का करार किया गया है । 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of sub- section ( 3 ) of section 
1 निविष्ट विवाद प्रस्त विषय क्या व्यास बांध प्रायोजना, सल 

10A of the said Act, the CentralGovernment liereby publishes 
वाड़ा जिला होशियारपुर में 

the said arbitration agreement whicb was received by it on the 

28th May, 1973 
अग्निथमन सेवा में नियोजित 

AGREEMENT 
कर्मफार निशुल्क “ बवियाँ दिये 

Under Section 10- A of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947 
जाने के हकदार हैं ? यदि हाँ 

BETWEEN 
तो किस पैमाने पर और किस Name of the Parties Repres- Sh . Sardari Lal, PSEI ; Execu 

onting Employer 

tive Engineer- Personnel, 
तारीख से ? " 

Beas Dam Project, Talwara 
31 G of J / 73 - 12 


साक्षी 


2216 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[ PART II -- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - -- - 


- - - - - - - - - 


-- - - - - - - - 


- - - 


- - 


- - - - - - 


- 


Represting Workinen 


Shri Daulat Singh Chauhan , 

General Secretary, Workers 
Union , Beas Dam , Talwara 
Township 


It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following 
Industrial Dispute to the Arbitration of Shri S . N . Mohanty , 
Assistant Labour Commissiner ( Central), New Delhi 
(i) Specific matters in dis - " Whether the workmen em 
pute 

ployed in Fire Fighting 
Service at the Beas Dam 
Project, Talwara, District 
Hoshiarpur arc entitled to 
the frce supply of " Uniforms ? 
If so , at what scale and 
from what date ? " 


1 Acas Dam Project , Talwara 

Township , District Hoshiat 


(ii ) Details of the parties to 

the di-pute including 
the name and address 
of the establishment or 
undertaking involved 


pur 


( iii ) Nanne of the Union, if 

any represontiny the 
Workmen in question 


Workers Union , Bcas Dam 
Projoct , Talwara Township , 
District Hoshiarpur 


(iv) Total number of workmen 16000 ( Only 35 workmen are 

eniployed in the under employed at the Projcct 
taking affected 

in Fire Fighting Service ) 


35 


( v ) Estimated number of 

workmen affected or liko 
ly to be affected by the 
dispute 


(We further agree that the decision of the Arbitrator shall 
bo binding on us. Tho arbitrator shall make his award within 
a period of three inonths or within such further time as is exten 
ded by mutual agreemont between us in writing In case the 
award is notmade within the period aforementioned , the referen . 
c ? to arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall 
be frco to negotiato for fresh arbitration ) 


वर्णित व्यक्ति के माध्यस्थम् के लिए निर्देशित करने का करार कर लिया है 
नीर उक्त माध्यस्थम् करार की एक प्रति केन्द्रीय सरकार को भेजी गई है ; 

अत , अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10-क की उपधारा ( 3 ) 
के उपबन्धो के अनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त माध्यस्थम् करार को , 
जो उसे 26 मई, 1973 को मिला गा , एतद्द्वारा प्रकाशित करती है । 

(करार) 
( प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1917 की धारा 10 क के अधीन ) 

के बीच 
पक्षकारों के माम 
नियोजको का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले श्री सरवारी लाल , पी० एम० ई . 

प्राई० कार्मिक, श्यामबाध प्रायोजना , 

तलवाड़ा । 
कर्मगारों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले श्री दौलत मिह चौहान, महा 

मधिव , श्रमिक यूनियन व्यास 

घात्र , तलवाड़ा कस्बा । 
पक्षकारों के बीच निम्नलिखित प्रौद्योगिक विवाद को श्री श्याम कृष्ण , 
सहायक श्रमायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , बरेली । के मध्यस्थम् के लिए एतद्द्वारा 
निर्देशित करने का करार किया गया है - - - 
( 1 ) विनिर्दिष्ट वियाद प्राप्त विषय "म्याम बांध प्रायोजना , तलवाड़ा 

जिला होशियारपुर के प्रबन्ध तंत्र 

की श्री प्रभुराम गेट मैन को 
28- 4-1972 मे सेवा से बर्खास्त 
फरने और सस्पश्चात् उन्हें 
6 -11-1972 से नये सिरे से 
उसी हैसियत में नियुक्त करने की 
कार्यवाई वैध और न्यायोचित 
है ? यदि नहीं तो यह किस 

अनुतोष के हकदार है । " 
( 2 ) विवाद के पक्षकारो का 1. व्यास बांध प्रायोजना, तलवाड़ा 
विवरण , जिसमें प्रतवलित स्था - कस्वा । 
पन या उपत्रम का नाम और 2. श्रमिक यूनियन , व्यास बांध 
पता भी सम्मिलित है । 

प्रायोजना तलपाड़ा । 
( 3) यदि कोई संघ प्रश्नगत कर्म- श्रमिक यूनियन , ब्याम बांध प्रा ." 
कारों का प्रतिनिधित्य करता योजना , तलवाड़ा कस्बा , जिला 
हो तो उसका नाम 

होशियारपुर । 
( 4 ) प्रभावित उपक्रम मे नियोजित 16000 
__ कर्मकारो की कुल संख्या । । 
( 5 ) विवाद द्वारा प्रभावित या 1 

सम्भाव्यतः प्रभावित होने वाले 
फर्मकारो की प्राक्कलिप्त संख्या । 

( हम यह करार भी करते है कि मध्यस्य का विनिश्चय हम पर पाबद्ध 
कर होगा । मध्यस्थ अपना पंचाट तीन मास की कालावधि या इतने 
और समय के पूर्व भीतर जो हमारे बीच पारस्परिक लिखित करार द्वारा 
बढ़ावा जाय , पेगा । यदि पूर्व घणित कालावधि के भीतर पंचाट नहीं दिया 
जाता तो माध्यस्थम् के लिए निदेश स्वत रद्द हो जायगा और हम नए 
माध्यस्थम् के लिए बातचीत करने को स्वतब होगे ) । 

___ पक्षकारों के हस्ताक्षर 
नियोजको का प्रतिनिधित्व 

सरदारी लाल 
करने वाले 

कार्यकारी इजीनियर -- कार्मिक ब्याग 

बांध प्रायोजना , तलवाड़ा । 


Signatures of the parties 
Roprosenting Employers Sd/ - Sardari Lal 

Executive Engineer - Personnel, 

Reas Dam Project, Talwara . 
Representing woerkmen 

Sd/- Daulat Singh Chauhan 

2/ 5/ 73 
General Secretary, workers Union, 
Beas Dam Project Tolwara Township , 


Witnesses . 


1 . Sd /- uldip Singh , 

Personnel Officer, Boas Dam Project, Tolwara Township , 
2. Kir nSoni . 

___ No. L. 42012/ 20/ 72I IR III 
आदेश 


नई दिल्ली , 8 जून , 1973 


का० आ० 1743 यत : व्यास बाध प्रायोजना , तलवाड़ा से संबन 
नियोजकों और कर्मकारों के बीच , जिनका प्रतिनिधित्व अमिक यूनियन, 
ग्याम बांध प्रायोजना, तमषाड़ा करती है , एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान 


और यतः उक्त नियोजकों और कर्मकारों ने प्रौद्योगिक विवाद प्रधि 
नियम, 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10-2 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
के उपबन्धों । अनुसरण में एक लिखित करार द्वारा उक्त विवाद को उसमें 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2217 
- -- - - - - 

-- -- - - - - - - - - -- 

- - - - - - - - 
कर्मकारों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले ह दौलत सिंह चौहान 

(Ws further agree that the decision of the Arbitrator shall 

bo binding on us . The arbitrator shall make his award within 
2 /5/ 73 

a period of threo nionths or within such further time as is cxton 
महा सचिव , श्रमिक यूनियन , 

ded by mutual agrcoment botween us in writing. In case the 

award is not made within the period aforementioned , the refere 
ब्याम बांध प्रायोजना , तलवाड़ा । 

nce to arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we 

shall be free to negotiate for fresh arbitration ). 
साक्षी :---- 

Signature of the parties 
1 . ह कुनवोप सिंह , कामिक अधिकारी, च्याम बोध प्रायोजना , तनवाड़ा Representing Employers Sd. /- SARDARI LAL 

Executive Engineer - Personnel, 
कस्बा । 

Boas Dam Project, Talwara 
2. ह: किरण सोनी 

Representing Workmen Sd./- DAULAT SINGH CHAUHAN 

2-5- 73 
[सं० एल- 1 2012/ 19/ 73-एल० पार० III ] 

General Secretary , Workers Union , 

Beas Danı Project, Talwara 
ORDER 

Witnesses : 

1 Sd. / - Kuldip Singh, 
New Delhi, the 8th Juno , 1973 

Personnel Officer , Beas Dam 

Project, Talwara Township . 
S . O . 1743. - -Whereas an industrial dispute exists between 

2 Sd. /- Kiran Soni. 
the employers in relation to Boas Dain Project Talwara and its 
workon represented by Workors Union , Beas Dam Project, 
Talwara . 

[ No. L. 42012 / 19 /73/ LRIII] 
And , whereas the said employers and workmen have , by 
a written agreement, in pulsuance of the provisionsof sub - section 

प्राधेश 
( 1 ) of soction 10A of th : Indistrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947) , agreed to refer the said dispute to arbritation by the person 
specificd therein , and a copy of the said acbitration agreement 

का० प्रा० 1744.--- यत : भाकड़ा प्रबंध बोर्ड से सबद्ध नियोजकों और 
has been forwarded to the Central Government. 

उमके कर्मकारो के बीच , जिसका प्रतिनिधित्व नंगल भाकडा मजदूर सर , 
Now therefore , in pursuanc : of sub -section (3 ) of section नंगल फस्या करता है, एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है , 
104 of the said Act, thy Central Government hereby publishes 
tho said arbitration agreement which was received by it on the 

और यतः उक्त नियोजको और कर्मकारो ने प्रौद्योगिक विवाद प्रधि 
26th May , 1973. 

नियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14) की धारा 10-क की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
AGREEMENT 
Under Section 10 - A of the Industrial Dispute Act , 1947 

के उपबन्धों के अनुसरण में एक लिखित करार द्वारा उक्त विवाद को उममें 
BETWEEN 

पणित व्यक्ति के माध्यस्थम् के लिए निर्देशित करने का करार कर लिया है 
Name of the Partics . 

और उक्त माध्यस्थम् करार की एक प्रति केन्द्रीय सरकार को भेजी गई है , 
Representing Employer : Sh . Sardari Lal, PSEI Execu 
tive Engineer - Pe. sonnel , 

प्रत., प्रब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10- क की उपधारा ( ) के 
Beas Dam Project, Talwara . 

उपबन्धों के अनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त माध्यस्थम् करार को , जो 
Representing Worknen : Sh. Daulat Singh Chauhan, 
General Secretary Workers 

उसे 28 मई, 1973 को मिला था , एतद्द्वारा प्रकाशित करती है । 
Union, Beas Dam, Talwar 

(करार ) 
Township . 

( प्रौद्योगिफ विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 की धारा 10-क के अधीन ) 
It is höreby agroed between the parties to refer the following 
Industrial Dispute to the Arbitration of Shri Shyam Krishna , 

के बीच 
Assistant Labour Co. ] nissioner ( Central) , Bareilly ) 
(i ) Spacific matters in dis - " Whether the actions of the पक्षकारों के नाम 
pute. 

Managoment of Bças Dam नियोजकों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले सरदार चरण सिह , उप विभागीय 
Project, Talwara, District 
Hoshiarpur in dismissing 

प्रधिकारी , अधीक्षक निर्मागशाला 
Shri Prabhu Ram , Gateman 

के व्यक्तिक सहायक, नंगल 
from service with effect from 
28 -4 - 1972 and subsequtenly 

निर्माण शाला । 
appointing him a fresh in the 
same capacity with cffect कर्मकारों का प्रतिनिधि करमे वाले सरवार राम किमान सिंह, महा 
from 6 - 11 - 1972 are legal 
and justified ? If not to what 

सचिव , नंगल भाकड़ा मजदूर सप , 
relief is he entitled ? " 

नगल । 
( ii ) Details of the Parties to 1 Beas Dam Project, Talwara 
the dispute including the Township . 

पक्षकारों के बीच निम्नलिखिम प्रौद्योगिक विवाद को श्री टी० टी० 
name and addross of the 2 . Workers Union , Beas Damn 
establishment or under Project , T alu arg . 

तथाडे उप श्रमायुक्त (केन्द्रीय ) नई दिल्ली के मध्यस्थम् के लिए एनद्वारा 
taking involved . 

निदेशित करने का करार किया गया है । 
(iii ) Name of the Union, if Workers Union, Bcas Dam 
any, representing the Project, Talwara Township 

( 1 ) विनिर्दिष्ट विवाद ग्रस्त विषय “भाकड़ा प्रबन्ध बोर्ड नगल करने की 
workmen in question . District Hoshiarpur 

नंगल निर्माणशाला के प्रबन्ध-तंत्र 
(iv ) Total number of work 16000 

की श्री सुधा सिंह को पहली 
men employed in the 
undertaking affected . 

फरवरी 1971 के बदले पहली 
( V , Estimated number of 

अगस्त , 1971 से बिजली मिस्त्री 
Workmen affected or 

( इलेक्ट्रिशियन ) ग्रेड-II के रूप 
likely to be affected by 
the disputc . 

में पदोन्नत करने की कार्रवाई 


2218 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[ PART II 


- 


- - 


It is hereby agreed botween the parties to rofor the following 
Industrial disputo to tho arbitration of Shri T . T . Tayade , Dy . 
Chiof Labour Commissioner ( Central) , New Delhi . 


कस्बा । 


न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं तो 
यह किस अनुतोष को पाने 

का हकदार है ? " 
( 2 ) विवाद के पक्षकारो का 1. भाकड़ा प्रवन्ध बोर्ड , नंगल 
विवरण , जिसमें अंतर्यलित या फस्या । 
उपक्रम का नाम और पता भी 2 नगल भाका मजदूर संघ , 
सम्मिलित है । 

नगल कस्या । 
( 3 ) यदि कोई संघ प्रश्नगत नगल भाका मजदूर संघ, नंगल 
कर्मकारो का प्रतिनिधित्व करता 

हो तो उसका नाम । 
( 4 ) प्रभावित उपक्रम मे नियोजित 900 

कर्मकारों की कुल संख्या । 
( 5 ) विवाद द्वारा प्रभावित या 1 

सम्भाव्यतः प्रभावित होने वाले 
फर्मकारो की प्राक्कलित संख्या । 

हम यह करार भी करते है कि मध्यस्थ का विनिश्चय हम पर भामत 
कर होगा । 
__ मध्यस्थ अपना पंचाट सीन मास की पालावधि या इतने और समय 
के भीतर जो हमारे बीच पारस्परिक लिखित करार द्वारा बढ़ाया जाय , 
देगा । यदि पूर्व वर्धित कालावधि के भीतर पंचाट नहीं दिया जाता तो 
माध्यस्थम् के लिए निवेण स्वतः रद हो जायेगा और हम नए माध्यस्थम् 
के लिए बाप्तमीत करने को स्वतन्त्र होगे । 

पक्षकारों के हस्ताक्षर 
हः अस्पष्ट 

5 / 5/ 73 
नियोजको का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाल 
हः स्पष्ट 5/ 6/ 73 
कर्मकारों का प्रतिनिधित्व फरमे बाते 


( i) Specific mattor in “ Whether the action of the 
dispute : 

management of Nangal Work 
shop of Bhakra Management 
Board Nanga ] Township in 
promoting Shri Sucha Singh 
as Electriciaj Grade 11 with 
cffect from 1st August, 1971 
instead of 1st February, 1971 
is logal and justified ? If not 

to what reliof is he çntitled ? 
(ii) Details of the parties 1 . Bhakra Managciment Board , 

to the disputo including Nangal Township . 
the name and address of 2 . Nangal Bhakra Mazdoor 
tho Establishmont or Sangh , Nangal Township . 

undortaking involved . 
(iii ) Name of the Union Nanga ) Bhakra Mazdoor Sungh , 

if any represonting the Nangal Township . 

workmen in quostion . 
(iv) Total number of work - 900) 

men employod in the 

undertaking affected . 
(v ) Estimated number of 1 

workinon affected or 
likely to be affected by 
the dispute . 


We further agree that the decision of the Arbitratoi shall 
he binding on us . 


साक्षों 


The arbitrator shall make his award within a rerico of thiee 
months or within such further timo as is extended by mutual 
agreeinent belween us in writing . In case the award is not 
made within the period aforementioned tho reference to 
arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall 
bo free to negotiate for fresh arbitration . 

Signature of tho Parties. 
Sd/ - Illegible 5 / 5/ 73 
Representing employer . 
Sd /- Illogible 5/ 5/ 73 
Ropresenting workmen : 
Witnesses : 
1 . Sd/ - K . Soni, 
2. Sd/ - Babu Lal . 

[ No . L. 42012 /17/ 73 / LR III ] 


1. ह. के . सोनी 
2. ह. बाबू लाल । 


[ सं० एल- 42012/ 17/ 73-एल० भार० III] 


ORDER 
S . O . 1744 . - .Whoroas an industrial dispute exists betwoon tlo 
employers in rolation to Bhakra Management Board and its 
workmen ropresented by Nangal Bhakra Mazdoor Sangh , 
Nangal Township . 


प्रापेश 


And , wlicroas the said omployors and workmen have, by a 
written agreement, in pusuance of the provisions of sub - scction 
( 1 ) of soction 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 
of 1947 ) , agreed to refer the said dispute to arbitration by the 
person specified theroin , and a copy of tho said arbilration 
agreemont has bcon forwarded to the Central Government, 


का० प्रा० 1745.-..- यत : व्यास बांध प्रायोजना तलवाड़ा से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच , जिनका प्रतिनिधित्व श्रमिक 
यूनियन , ब्यास बांध प्रायोजना , तलवाडा कस्था करता है, एक प्रौद्यो 
गिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


New , therefore , in pursuance of sub -section (3 ) of section 
10A of the said Act, the Central Govorniment hereby publishes 
the said arbitration agrooment which was received by it on the 
28th May , 1973. 

AGREEMENT 
Under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1948 

BETWEEN 
Name of tho partios, 
Reprosonting omployers : Sardar Charan Singh , 

Sub Divisional Officer, PA to 
Superintendont Workshop , 
Nangal Workshop. 


और यत. उम्त नियोजको और उनके कर्मकारों ने प्रायोगिक 
विवाव अधिनियम , 1947 ( 19 47 का 14 ) की धारा 10-क की उपधारा 
( 1 ) के उपबन्धो के अनुसरण मे एक लिखित करार उक्त विवाद 
को उसमें वर्णित व्यक्ति के माध्यस्थम् के लिए निर्देशित करने का करार 
कर लिया है और उक्त माध्यस्थम करार को एक प्रति केन्द्रीय सरकार 
को भेजी गई है । 


प्रस , अब , उषा अधिनियम की उपधारा 10-2 की उपधारा ( 3 ) 
के उपबन्धो के अनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त माध्यस्थम् करार 
को , जो उसे 28 मई, 1973 को मिला था , एतदद्वारा प्रकाशित करती 


Representing workmen : 


sardar Ram Kishan Singh , 
General Secretary Nangal Bhakra 
Mazdoor sangh, Nangal, 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


2219 


- - - 


- - - 


- - - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


करार 


साक्षीः 
1 ह. कुलदीप सिंह , 

कार्मिक अधिकारी न्यास बांध तलवाड़ा । 
2. ह. किरण सोनी 


[ सं० एन० 420 12/ 18/ 73-एल० प्रार• III ] 

फर्मेस सिंह, प्रवर सविध 


ORDER 


S. O . 1745 : - Whereas an industrial dispute exists between 
the employers in rolation to Beas Dani Project Talwara and its 
workmen reprosented by Workers Union , Beas Dam Project 
Talwara Township . 


( प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1973 को धारा 10 - क के अधीन ) 

के बीप 
पक्षकारो के नाम : 
नियोजकों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले श्री सरदारी लाल पी०एस०ई०पाई० 

कार्यकारी इंजीनियर - कामिक व्यास 

बांध प्रायोजना , तलवाड़ा । 
कर्मकारों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले श्री दौलत सिंह, चौहान, महासचिय, 

श्रमिक यूनियन , व्यास याध, 

तलवाड़ा कस्बा । 
पक्षकारों के बीच निम्नलिखित प्रौद्योगिक विवाद को श्री एम०एन० 
मोहन्सी , सहायक श्रमायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) नई दिल्ली के मध्यस्थम के लिए 
एतदद्वारा निर्देशित करने का करार किया गया है : 
1 विनिदिष्ट विवाद ग्रस्त विषय . " क्या ब्यास बांध प्रायोजना तनवाडा 

कस्बा जिला होशियारपुर के 
प्रबंध -तंत्र की श्री ब्रह्म दत , लोको 
पालक को 27- 3- 1972 से 
सेवा बर्खास्त करने और उसके 
पश्चात् उन्हें 18- 11-1972 से 
पुनः नये सिरे से उसी हैसियत में 
नियुक्त करने की कार्ययाहिया वैध 
पौर न्यायोचित है ? यदि नही तो 
कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार 


And , whereas the said enployers and workmen have, by a 
written agreement, in pursuanco of the provisions of sub -section 
(1 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 
1947), agreed to reler the said dispute to arbitration by the 
person specified theroin , And a copy of the said arbitration 
agrcement has been forwarded to tho Central Govcinment. 


( 2 ) विवाद के पक्षकारो का विवरण 1 श्रमिक यूनियन , ब्याम बांध प्रायो 

जिसमें अंतर्वलित स्थापन या जना , तलवाड़ा , कस्बा , जिला 
उपक्रम का नाम और पता भी होशियारपुर । 
सम्मिलित है । 

2 ब्यास बांध प्रायोजना , नलवारा 

जिला होशियारपुर । 
( 3 ) यदि कोई संघ प्रश्नगत कर्मकारों श्रमिक र नियन , ब्यास धि प्रायोजना , 

का प्रतिनिधित्व करता हो तो सलवाड़ा । 

उसका नाम । 
( 4 ) प्रभावित उपक्रम में नियोजित 16000 

फर्मकारों की कुल सख्या । 
( 5 ) रियाद द्वारा प्रभाषित या संभा - 1 

व्य प्रभावित होने वाले कर्मकारों 
को प्राक्कलिप्त संख्या । 

( हम यह करार भी करते है कि मध्यस्थ का विनिश्चय हम पर पाबद्ध 
कर होगा । मध्यस्थ अपना पंचाट तीन मास की कालावधि या इसने और समय के 
भीतर जो हमारे बीच पारम्परिक लिखित करार द्वारा बढ़ाया जाय , 
देगा । यदि पूर्व पणित कालावधि के भीतर पंचाट नहीं दिया जाता 
तो माध्यस्थम् के लिए निदेश स्वतः रद हो जायगा और हम नए माध्यस्थम् 
के लिए बातचीत करने को स्वतंत्र होगे ) । 

पक्षकारो के हस्ताक्षर 
नियोजको का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले हः सरदारी लाल, कार्यकारी इजीनियर , 

कार्मिक ब्याम बांध प्रायोजना , 

तलवाडा । 
कर्मकारों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले हः दौलत मिह चौहान , 

2 - 5 - 73 
महासचिव, श्रमिक यूनियन , 
ग्यास बाध प्रायोजना , 
तलवाड़ा कस्बा । 


Now , thorefore, in pursuance of sub -section ( 3) of section 
10A of the said Act, the Central Governincnt hereby publishes 
the said arbitration agreement which was received by it on the 
28th May, 1973. 

AGREEMENT 
Under Section 10- A of the Industrial Dispute Act , 1947 

BETWEEN 
Namo of the parlios , 
Reprosenting Employer : Sh . Sardari Lal- PSEI Exocutivo 

Engincor- Personnel Boas Dam 

Project , Talwara . 
Reprosenting Worknen : Sh . Daulat Singh , Chauhan , 

General Secretary , Workers 
Union, Beas Dam, Talwara 

Township . 
It is hereby agreed betwcen the parties to refor the following 
Industrial Dispute to the Arbitration of Shri S . N . Mohanty , 
Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central ), New Delhi. 
(i) Specific matters in " whether the actions of the 
dispute . 

Managemont of Bcas Dam 
Project, Talwara , District 
Hoshiarpur in dismissing Shri 
Brahm Dutt, Loco Driver from 
servico with offcot from 27- 3 -72 
and subsequently appointing 
him afrosh with effect from 
18- 11 - 1972 on the same capa 
city aro loga ] and justified ? 
If not, to what rolief is the 

workman entitlcd ? 
(ii) Details of tho parties 1 . Workers Union , Beas Dam 

to the dispute including Project, Talwara Township 
the name and address District Hoshiarpur. 
of the establishment or 
undertaking involved . 

2. Beas Dam Project , Talwara , 

District Hoshiarpur . 
( iii ) Names of the Union, Workers Union, Beas Dam Pro 

it any reprosenting the jcct , Talwara . 
workmon in question . 


(iv ) Total number of work 

16000 . 
mon cmployed in the 

undertaking affected . 
( v ) Estimated number of 

worknon affected for 
likely to be affoctod by the 
dispute . 

(We furthor agree that docision of the Arbitrator shall bo 
binding on lis . The arbitrator shall mako his award within a 
period of threo months or within such further tino as extended 


- 


- - 


- - 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- . . ... 


2220 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

[ PART II 
- - - - -- - 

- - -- - - - .. . -- - - - - - 
by mutual agreement between lis in writing. In case the ( 2 ) विवाद के पक्षकारों का विवरण 1. व्यास बांध प्रायोजना , तलवाड़ा । 
award is not made within the period aforementioned , the 
reference to arbitration shall stand automalically cancelled and 

जिसमे अतलिन स्थापन का 2 श्रमिक यूनियन , म्यास बांध 
we shall be fico to negotiate for fresh arbitration ) . 

उपक्रम सा नाम और पता भी तलवाड़ा । 
Signature of the partios , 

सम्मिलित है । 
Representing Employers. 

Sd / 
SARDARILAL 

( 3 ) यदि कोई संघ प्रश्नगत कर्मकारों श्रमिक यूनियन कयास बाध तलवाडा 
Executive Engineer 

का प्रतिनिधित्व करता हो तो कस्वा । 
Personnel, Beas Dam Project, Talwara . 
Representing Workmen : 

Sd/ 

उमका नाम 
DAULAT SINGH CHAUJIAN 

( 4 ) प्रभावित उपमध मे नियोजित 16, 000 
2/ 5 / 73 

कर्मकारो को कुल संख्या । 
General Secretary 
Workers Union , Bea , Dam 

( 5 ) विवाह द्वारा प्रभावित या 
Project, Talwara Townshup . 

सभाश्य प्रभावित होने वाले 
Witnesses . 
1. Sd /- Kuldip Singh 

कर्मकारो की प्राकलित संख्या । 
Personnol Officer , Beas Dam , Talwara . 
2 . Sd/ - Kiran Soni , 

( हम यह कगर भी करते है कि मध्यस्थ का विनिश्चिय हम पर पाप कर 
[ No. L. 42012/18/ 73/ LRIJI] 

होगा । मध्यस्थ अपना पबाट तीन माम की कालावधि या इतने और समय के भीतर 
प्रावेश 

जो हमारे बीच पारम्परिक लिखित करार द्वारा बनाया जाय, होगा । यदि पूर्व 

अणित कालावधि के भीतर पचाट नही दिया जाता तो माध्यस्थम के लिए निवेश 
का० प्रा० 1746 – यत ब्यास बाध प्रायोजना , नलवाडा से सबद्ध 
नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारा के बीच , जिनका प्रतिनिधिस्य श्रमिक 

स्वतः रद्द हो जायगा और हम नए माध्यस्थम के लिए बातचीत करने को स्वतंत्न 

होगे । 
यूनियन , ट्याम बाध प्रायोजना तलवाडा कम्बा करती है, एक प्रौद्योगिक 

पक्षकारो के हस्ताक्षर 
विवाद विद्यमान है । 

नियोजको का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले . १०- सरदारी लाल , कार्यकारी 
और यत उक्त नियोजको और कर्मकारों के प्रौद्योगिक विवाद प्रधि 

इंजीनियर , कार्मिक ब्यास सघ 
नियम 1947 ( 1917 का 14 ) की धारा 10-फ की उपधारा ( 1 ) 

प्रायोजना , तलवाला । 
के उपबंधों के अनुमरण में एक लिखित करार द्वारा उक्त विवाद को 

कर्मकारो का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले . ह -दौलत सिंह चौहान , महा सचिव, 
उसमें वणित व्यक्ति के माध्यस्थम के लिए निर्देशित करने का करार 

श्रमिक यूनियन थ्यास बाध प्रायो 
कर लिया है और उक्त माध्यस्थम करार की एक प्रति केन्द्रीय सरकार 

जना, तलवाड़ा, कस्वा । 
को भेजी गई है । 

साक्षी 
अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10-क की उपधारा ( 3 ) के 

1 ह०-कुलदीप सिंह, कामिक अधिकारी याम बाध , तनपाड़ा । 
उपक्ष के अनुसरण मे , केन्द्रीय सरकार उस माध्यस्थम फरार को , 

2 ह०-किरण सोनी । 
जो उसे 28 मई, 1973 को मिला था , एतद्वारा प्रकाशित करती है । 

[स० एल 42011 / 15/ 73-एल० पार III ) 

ORDER 
( प्रौद्योगिक वियाद अधिनियम , 1947 की धारा 10-2 के अधीन ) 

s . o . 1746 . - Whereas an industrial dispute cxists between 
the employers in relation to Beas Dam Project ( Talwara and 

its workmen reprosented by Workers Union , Beas Dam Pro 
पक्षकारो के नाम 

ject , Talwara Township . 

And , whereas tho said employers and workmen have , by 
नियोजको का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले श्री सरदारी लाल, पी०एम० ई० आई० 

W written agreement, in pursuance of the provisions of sub 
कार्यकारी इंजीनियर कामिक ब्यास section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 

( 14 of 1947) agreed to refer tho said dispute to arbitration by 
बाध प्रायोजना, तलावाड़ा । 

the person specificd therein , and a copy of the said arbitration 
फर्मकारो का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले 

Central Government. 
agreement has been forwarded to tho 
श्री दौलत सिह चौहान, महासचिव , 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of sub -section ( 3 ) of soction 
मिक यूनिया , ग्याम बांध , 

10A of the said Act, the Central Government hereby publishey 
तलवाड़ा कम्बा । 

the said arbitration a grecment which was received by it on 

tho 28th May, 1973. 
पक्षकारो के बीच निम्नलिखित प्रौद्योगिक विवाद को श्री टी०टी० तयाडे, 

AGREEMENT 
उप मुख्य श्रमायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , नई दिल्ली के माध्यस्थम के लिए एतद्द्वारा निर्शित Under Section 10- A of the Industrial Dispute Act 1947 

BETWEEN 
करने का करार किया गया है , 

Name of the parties, 
1. विनिदिष्ट यियाद ग्रस्त विषय “व्याम वाध प्रायाजना , तलवाड़ा के Representing Employer . Shri Sardari Lal PSEI, L xecul 

livo Engineer -Personnel Beus 
प्रमध तत्र की श्री जमुना दाम , 

Dam Project, Talwara . 
रटेशन मारटर को 5- 5- 1972 से 

Representing Workmen : Shri Daulat Singh Chauhan, Gene 
सेवा से बर्खास्त करने और 

ral Secretary , Workers Union , 

Bcas Dam, Talwara Township . 
तत्पश्चात् उन्हे 18-11-1972 से 

It is hereby agreed betwoen the parties to refer the followiny 
नय सिरे से उसी हैसियत मे नियुक्त In -lustrial Dispute to the Arbitration of Shri T . T . Tayade, 

Deputy Chief Labour Commissioner (Cential). 
करने की कार्यवाहियां वैध और 

New Delhi. 
न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं 

(i) Specific matters in " Whether the actions of the 
तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का 

dispute . 

Management of Beas Dain 

Project, Talwara in disinissing 
हकवार है ? " 

Shri Jamua Dass , Station 


THE GAZET JE OF INDIA :JUNE 16,1973,JY AISTHA 20,1895 _ 


LA 


2221 


sec, 3 (* ) ] THE GAZETSE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 ; JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2221 
- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - 
Mastor from service with effect 

For the Bharat Coking Coal ( td . -- Shri S . $ . Mukherjee, 
from 5 . 5 .1972 and subsequently 

Advocate . 
appointing liim afresh in thic 

For the Workmen - Shri H . N . Singh , Vice-President, 
samo capacity with offect from 

Koyala ispat Mazdoor Panchayat, Jharia . 
18 - 11 - 1972 are leagl and justi 
fied ? If not, to what relief Stute : Bihar 

Industry : Coal. 
the workman is entitled ?" , 

Dhanbad, the 25th May, 1973 
( ii) Details of the parties 1. Beas Dam Project, Talwara . 
to the dispute including , 2 . Workers Union , Beas Dam , 

AWARD 
the name of and address Talwarı, 

The present reference arises out of Order No. L /2012 / 
of the establishment or 

14 / 72 -LRII dnted New Delhi, the 4th September , 1972 
undertaking involved . 

passed by the Central Government in respect of an indus 
(iii) Name of the Union , if Workers Union , Beas Dam , tuial dispute between the parties mentioned above . The 
any repro -enting the Talwara Township . 

subject inatter of the dispute has been specified in the 
workmen in question . 

schedule to the said order and the said schedule runs ag 
( iv ) Total number of work - 16 , 000 

follows:- - 
men employed in the 

" Whicther the action of the management of Lodna Col 
undertaking affected . 

liery at present under the management of Bharat 
( v ) Estimated number of 1 

Coking Coal Limited , Post Office Jharia , District 
workmen affected or 

Dhanbad , in dismissing from scrvice Shri Ram 
Jikely to be all ected by 

Avtar Mallah , Underground Munshi, with cffoct 
tho disputc . 

from the 21st September , 1971 is justified ? If 

not, to what relief is the workman entitled ?" 
(We further agree that the decision of the Arbitrator, shall 
bo binding on us. Tho Arbitrator shall make his award within 

2 . The dispute has been settled out of Cout. A memo 
a poriod of three months or within such further time as is randum of settlement, dated 25th May , 1973 has been filed 
extendo 1 by mutual agreoment betwoen us in writing. In case in Court. I have pune thiough the terms ot settlement and 
the Award is not made within the period aforementioned , the I find them quite fair and reasonable . There is no reason 
reference to arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and why an award should not be made on the terms and condi 
wo shall be free to negoliale for fresh arbitration . 

tions laid down in the Memorandum of Settlement . I accept 

it and make and award accordingly. The memorandum of 
Signaturo of the parties. 

settlement shall form part of the award . 
Representing Employer 

Sd / 

3. Let a copy of this award be forwarded to the Central 
Sardari Lal Executive Enginoor - - Government as required ander section 15 of the Industrial 

P J , Beas Dain Project, Talwara , Disputes Act. 1947 
Representing Workmen . 

D . D . SETH , Presiding Officer 
Sd/- Daulat Singh Chauhan 

BEFORE THE HON BLE PRESIDING OFFICER , 
General Socrotary, Workers Union , Beas Dam Project, Talwara CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
Township . 
Witnesses . 

NO . 1 AT DHANBAD 
1. Sd /- Kuldip Singh , Personnel Officer , Boas Dam , Talwara , In the matter of: 
2. $ d /- Kiran Soni. 

Roference No. 30 of 1972 
[No.L .42012/ 15/ 73 /LRNI] Partles: 
9 . 0 . 1747 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 

Employers in relation to Lodna Colliery 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Govornment 
hereby publishes tho following award of the Central Govorn 

AND 
ment Industrial Tribunal, No. 1 , Dhanbad , in the industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the manage 

Their Workman . 
ment of Lodna Colliery at present under the management 

MEMORANDUM OF SETTLEMENT 
of Messrs Bharat Coking Coal Limited , Post Olice Jharia , 
District Dhanbad and their workmen , which was received All the parties in the present proceedings have amicably 
by the Central Government on the 31st May , 1973 . 

settled the dispute involved in the present Reference on the 

terms hereinafter stated : 
(AWARD ) 

( 1 ) That Shri Rani Avtar Mallah , the workman concerned 

in the present Reference shall be reinstated on and from 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

28- 5 - 1973 without any back -wages and he shall be posted at 
TRIBUNAL NO . 1 , DHANBAD 

Bugdigi Colliery . He will be placed in clerical grade-Ir 

(Central Wage Board ) with basic salary of Rs. 225 / - (Rupees 
In the matter of reference under section 10 (1 )(d ) of the Two hundred and twenty - five only ) per month from the sald 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 

date . 
Reference No. 30 of 1972 

(2 ) That the period intervening from the date of dismis 

gal (which gave rise to the present reference ) till the date 
Parties : 

of resumption of duty shall, for the purposes of continuity 

of servicos, be treated as leave without pay , but the work 
Employers in relation to the management of Lodna man concerned will be eligible to proportionate leave pro 

Colliery at present under the management 3f Messrs vided he puts in proportionate qualifying attendance during 
Bharat Coking Coal Limited , Post Office Tharia . the remaining period of the current year. 
District Dhanbad 

( 3 ) That in the cvent of the fallure of Shri Ram Avtar 
AND 

Mallah , concerned workman , to report for work within a 

fortnight from 28 - 5 - 1973 , he shall have no right for re 
Their Workmen . 

cniployment etc . under this Agreement, 
Present: 

(4 ) That Shil H . N . Singh , Vice President, Koyala Ispat 

Mazdoor Panchayat, Jharia will be paid a sum of Rs. 100 / 
Mr. Justice D . D . Seth , (Retd .), Presiding Officer. 

(Rupees One Hundred only ) as the cost of proccedings . 
Appearances 

( 5 ) That the above terms finally resolve the dispute bet 
For the old cmployers- Shri A . K . Sahay, Manager 

ween the parties and there is, therefore , no subsisting dis 
pure for adjudication in the present reference. 


- 


- - - 


2222 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JUNE 16 , 1973 /JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

[ PART II ~ 
- - - - - -- - - - - - 

- - - - - - - -- = = 
It is, therefore , prayed that tho Hon ble Tribunal may Orissa , Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra . l he services ot 

he pleased to accept this Settlement and to give its the employeos are liablo to be transferred from one mine 
ilward in terms thereof . 

to another for administrative convenience and cven other 

wise in accordance with the terms of the contract of service . 
For the Employer 

For the Worknian 
1 . N . SINGH , Vice-Preslulent, 

Giridih Collicry of the Corporation had surplus staff which 

was transferred to various collieries in which vacancies exist 
Koyala ispat Mazdoor Panchayat, Jharia , ted . According to the management, A . K . Prasad was trans 

ferred from Giridih to Jamuna Collicry on 11 - 1 - 1968. He 
A . K . SAHAY 

had been appointed as early as 1 - 10 - 1968 and cycn prior to 
Manager 

1 - 10 - 1968 he was working in other collieries from 1946 . 
Lodna Colliery 

Both A . K . Prasad and P . V . Samukutty were in the same 

pay scale viz . 110 - 180 and their seniority was detcrmined 
For Bharat Coking Coal Ltd . 

on the basis of length of service in the game grade. Accord 
J. N . P . SAHI, Labour & Law Adviser 

jog to the management Samukutty was appointed in the 

scale of Rs. 110 - - 180 on 1- 6 - 1963 while A . K . Prasad was 
Bharat Coking Coal Ltd . 

uppointed in tho same scale on 1 - 10 - 1956 . Therefore , aftor 
S . S . MUKHERJEE, Advocate A . K , Prasad was transferred from Giridih to the Jamuna 

Colliery he was made senior to Samukutty . It is clear that 
Dated , the 25th May , 1973. 

the Giridih Colliery and the Jamuna Colliery are under the 
[No. L 2012 / 14 /72 /LR II] 

management of the Corporation . The parties produced docu 

mentary evidence but did not lead any oral evidence , Sri 
S . O . 1748 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 

P . K , Thakur strenuously argued that the Jamuna Colliery 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government 

was a separate unit for administrative purposes and Samu 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Goy 

kutty being the senior most Lower Division Clerk in the 
crnment Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur , in the industrial dis 

Colllery and his name having put first in the seniority 
puto between the employer in relation to the Jamuna Collier y 

list he should not have been superseded by A . K . Prasad . 
of Messrs National Coal Development Corporation Limited , 

Sri Thakur WAS, however , unable to point out any provision 
Post Office Janiuna Colliery , District Shahdol (Madhya Pra 

which prohibited the Corporation from transferring an cm 
desh ) and their workmen , which was received by the Central 

ployee who was working in one of its units to another 
Government on the 4th June , 1973 . 

unit. It was fully within the competence of the Corpora 
tion to transfer A . K . Prasad from Giridih to the Jamuna 

Colliery . He carried his seniority with him and it was not 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

open to the management to lower it after his transfer from 
CUM -LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 

Giridih to the Jamuna Colliery . Mr. Thakur was unable to 
Jabalpur, the 24th April, 1973 

refer to any provision which may be binding on the parties 

for showing that an employees serving in tho same company 
Present : 

could be transferred from one of its units to another with 
Mr. Justice S . N . Katju — Presiding Oricet. 

out retaining his own seniority in the servico of the Com 

pany. It might have been hard on P . V . Samukutty that 
Case No. CGIT / LC (R )(6) of 1972 

he no longer remained thợ senior most Lower Division 

Clerk in the Colliery as ho was before the transfer of 
(Notification No. L-2212 /21 /21 /71-IRII dated 11 -2- 1972 ). 

A . K , Prasad to the Jamuna Colliery . But it would have 
been very unjuct on the part of the management to have 

pushed down A . K . Prasad s seniority after transferring him 
Parties: 

from Giridih to the Jamuna Colllery . An employee serving 
Employers in relation to the Jamuna Collicry of Messrs in one branch of the same concern can be transferred to 
National Coal Development Corporation Limited , 

another of the concern , but on such transfer he would re 
Post Office , Jamuna Colliery , District Shahdol tain his seniority and his pay scale and the management on 
(Madhya Pradesh ) and their workmen represented 

transferring him to another unit can not bring down his 
through the Jamuna Kolari Mazdoor Sangh , P . O 

seniority . It is, therefore , clear that the management was 

fully Justified in glving seniority to A . K . Praşad over P , V . 
Kotma, District Shahdol (M .P .). 

Samukutty on his transfer from Giridih to tho Jamuna Col 

liery and the workman , P . V . Samukutty , is not entitled to 
Appearancest 

any relief. I make my award accordingly . Tho parties will 
For employous - Srl P . S . Nair , 

bear their own costs . 
For workmen - Sri P . K , Thakur. 

S . . KATJU , Presiding Officer 
Industry; Coal Mine District: Shahdol (M . P .). 

[No. L .-22012 / 21 / 71 /LR II] 
AWARD 
This is a reference under Section 10 ( 1) (d ) of the indu19 

S . O . 1749. - In pursuanco of section 17 of the Industrial 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (hereinafter called the Act) , 

Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
The question referred is: 

hereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov 

ernment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dis 
" Kceping in view the seniority list of Lower Division pute between the employers in relation to the management 

Clerks notificd in 1968, whether the management of of Haripur Collicry ( The Selected Baraboni Coal Company 
Jamuna Colliery of Messrs National Coal Develop 

Private Limited ) , Post Office Bahula , District Burdwan and 
ment Corporation Limited , was justified in giving 

their workmen , which was received by the Central Govern 
seniority list notified in 1969 ? If not, to what ment on the 2nd June , 1973. 

relicf is the workman entitled ? " 
Admittedly Sri P . V . Samukutty is working on the staff 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
of tho Jamuna Colliery of National Coal Development Cor 

AT CALCUTTA 
poration Ltd . ( herçinafter called the Corporation ) as a Lower 
Division Clerk since 1968. According to the seniority list 

Reference No. 45 of 1972 
of the monthly paid employees of Jamuna Colliery as on 
1 - 4 - 1968 Sri P . V . Samukutty was shown as tho senior most 

Parties : 
Lower Division Clerk / Typist. It was alleged by him that 

Employers in relation to the management of Haripur 
since he was an active worker of the Union and represented 

Colliery ( Tho Selected Baraboni Coal 
the cause of the workmen , the management acting in A 

Company 
malafide manner brought Sri A . K . Prasad from Giridih 

Private Limited ) . 
to thọ Jamuna Colliery and made him the senior mont Lower 

AND 
Division Clerk on the basis of seniority and thus 
Sri Samukutty was bye - pagged with tho result that his 

Their Workmen 
future claims have been marred . On behalf of the manage 
ment of the Colliery it was stated that the Corporation is 

Present : 
a body corporate which owns various coal mines in Bihar, Sri S . N . Bagchi - Presiding Officer. 


SEC, 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16 , 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 

2223 
- - - - - 
APPEARANCE : 

बोर्ड की सिफारिशें कार्यान्वित न करने की 
On behalf of Employers. - - Absent. 
On behalf of Workmen . -- Absent. 

कार्रवाई न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं , तो सम्बंधित 
STATE: West Bengal Industry : Coal Mine 

कर्मकार किस अनुतोष के और किस तारीख से हकदार 
AWARD 

है ? " 
By Order No. 1 /1912 / 56 / 72 -LRII . dated 21 - 7 - 1972, the 

[सं . एल -29011 /7 /73- ल . आर.-4 ] 
Government of India , in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabi 
litation, Department of Labour and Employment, referred 

ORDER 
the following industrial dispute existing between the emp 
loyers in relation to the management of Haripur Colliery 

New Delhi, the 30th April, 1973 
( The Selected Baraboni Coal Company Private Limited ), 

S . O . 1750 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
and their workmen, to this tribunal, for adjudication, 

that an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
namely : 

relation to the management of U . P . State Industrial Corpora 
" Whether the action of the management of Haripur Col 

tion Limited , Kanpur and their workmen in respect of the 
liery ( The Selected Buraboni Coal Company Pri 

matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 
Vilte Limited ) , Post Office Bahula , District Burd 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desira 
wan in stopping the work of Shri Brij Behari 

able to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 
Pandey , Sand Checker with effect from the 20th 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
March, 1972 is justified ? If not, to what relief 

clause ( d ) of sub- section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial 
is the worknman cntitled ? " 

Dispute hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 

Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur constituted under section 7A 
2 . The partics filed their respective statement of cases in of the said Act . 
this matter. Thereaftor the management of the colliery by 
an Ordinance of 1973 vested in the Central Government ad 

SCHEDULE 
ministered by a Statutory Custodian . But there was no law 
ful appearance of the Central Government through the sta 

Whether the action of the U . P . State Industrial Corpo 
tutory Custodian in his proceeding , 

ration Limited , Kanpur by not implementing the 

recommendations of tho Central Wage Board for 
3 . On 18 -4 - 1973 a curious application was filed before 

Limestone and Dolomito Mines in the case of their 
this tribunal containing the terms of alleged settlement sign 

workmen employed in the Limestone and Dolomite 
ed on behalf of the management by somebody with a date 

Mines at Chopan ( District Mirzapur ) is justified ? 
thereunder 16 / 4 / 1973 and on behalf of the workman by 

If not, to what relief aro the workmen concerned 
somebody with a date thereunder 16 / 4 / 1973 . The names 

entitled and from what date ? 
of the signatories are undecipherable . Below the names of 

[ No. L-29011/ 7/ 73- LR.IV .] 
the signatures no common scul appears i.e . for the employer 
management and the workman purporting to be represented 

आदेश 
by . registered trade union . So , the tribunal directed the 
signatorics to the so called compromise petition to appear 
before the tribunal on 24 - 5 - 1973 and to make submission on 

नई दिल्ली , 11 मई , 1973 
the allcged compromisc petition if any. The date was duly 
notificd . None for the managemenut and for the work 

का . आ . 1751. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपा 
men appear in spite of notice . The so called compromise 
petition cannot therefore bc recorded . 

बद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स अशोक 

स्टान इंडस्ट्रीज , अम्बाली हिल , अन्धेरी , मुम्बई , के प्रबंधतंत्र से 
4 . As the partics do not appear , this tribunal considers 
that there is no disputc . Accordingly a no dispute award 

सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक 
is rendered . 

विवाद विद्यमान है । 
Dated 24th May 1973 . 
S. N . BAGCHI, Presiding Officer . 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवार को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए 
INo. L .- 19012 / 56 / 72 - LR III निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती हाँ 
KARNAIL SINGH, Under Secy . 

अत : अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 (1947 का 

14) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
आदेश 

शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा उक्त 
नई दिल्ली, 30 अप्रैल, 1973 

विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा क के अधीन गठित 

केन्द्रीय सरकार औद्योगिक अधिकरण , (संख्या 2 ) बम्बई को न्याय . 
का . आ . 1758. -यत: टफन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपा 

निर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 
बद्ध अनुसूची में विििवष्ट विषयों के बारे में यू . पी . स्टेट 
इंडस्ट्रियल कारपोरेशन लिमिटेड, कानपुर के प्रबन्धतंत्र से सम्बद्ध 

अनुसूची 
नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद 

" क्या मैसर्स अशोक स्टोन इंडस्ट्रीज, अम्बोली हिल , अन्धेरी , 
विद्यमान है , 

मुम्बई , की श्री हनुमंत लक्ष्मण की सेवाओं को समाप्त 
और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 

करने की कार्रवाई न्यायोचित थी ? यदि नहीं , तो 
लिए निर्देशित कर मांछनीय समझती है ; 

कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ?" 
अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 

__ [ सं . एल. 29012( 14 ) / 73-एल. आर.-4 ] 
14) की धारा 10 की उपधारा (1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 

ORDER 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद का 
उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 के अधीन गठित आँदोगिक 

New Delhi , the 11th May, 1973 
अधिकरण , जबलपर को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । S. O . 1751 - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 

that an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 

relation to the management of Messra Ashok Stone Industries , 
अनुसूची 

Amboli Hill , Andheri, Bombay and their workmen in respect 
" क्या यू . पी . स्टेट इंडस्ट्रियल कारपोरेशन लिमिटेड, कानपुर की of the matters specified in the Schedulc hereto annexed ; 
चोपन (जिला मिर्जापुर) स्थित चूना पत्थर और डोलोमाइट 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desira 

able to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 
खानों में नियोजित अपने कर्मकारों के सम्बन्ध में 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
चुना-पत्थर और खेलोमाइट खानों के लिए केन्द्रीय मजदूर clause (d ) of sub -section (1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial 


2224 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973 / JYAISTHA 26 , 1895 


[ PART II 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 (1947 का 
14) की धारा 2 के खण्ड ( ) के उपखण्ड ( 8) के परन्सक द्वारा 
प्रदस्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्धारा 
उक्स उद्योग के उक्त अधिनियम के प्रयोजन के लिए 22 जून , 
1973 से छः मास की और कालावधि के लिए लोक उपयोगी सेवा 
घोषित करती है । 


[ फा . सं . एस .-11025 / 18/ 73- एल . आर. 1 ] 

एस . एस . सहस्त्रनामन , अवर सचिव 


Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal ( No . 2 ), Bombay constituted 
under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether Messrs Ashok Stone Industries , Amboli Hill, 

Andheri , Bombay were justifled in terminating the 
services of Shri Hanumantha Laxman ? If not, to 
what relief is the workman entitled ? 

____ [ No. 1 - 29012(14 )/ 73-LR.IV .] 

नई दिल्ली, 4 जून, 1973 
का . आ . 1752. ज्यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने, यह समाधान हो जाने 
पर कि लोक हित में ऐसा अपेक्षित है , औद्योगिक विवाद अधि 
नियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 2 के खण्ड ( 8) के उपखg 
( 1) के उपबंधों के अनुसरण में , भारत सरकार के श्रम और पन 
सि मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं . का . 
आ . 4078 तारीख 29 नवम्बर, 1972 वारा , उक्त अधिनियम , की 
धारा 2 के खण्ड ( ख ) में यथापरिभाषित बककारी उद्योग को । 
उक्त अधिनियम के प्रयोजनों के लिए 29 दिसम्बर, 1972 से छ: 
मास की कालावधि के लिए उपयोगी संवा घोषित किण था , 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि लोक हित में उक्त 
कालावधि का छ: मास की और कालावधि के लिये बढ़ाया जाना 
अपेक्षित है । 

अतः अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 (1947 का 
14 ) की धारा 2 के खण्ड ( ) के उपखण्ड ( 1 ) के परन्तक दार 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
उक्त उद्योग को उक्त अधिनियम के प्रयोजनों के लिए 29 जून , 
1973 से छः मास की और कालाधि के लिए लोक उपयोगी सेवा 
घोषित करती है । 


S. O . 1753. - Whereas by the Notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation 
( Department of Labour & Employment ) No . S . O . 4166, dated 
the 28th November , 1972, the Central Government , being 
satisfied that the public interest 80 required , had declared 
the industry for the supply of milk under the Delhi Milk 
Scheme to be a public utility service for the purposes of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) , for a period of 
six months from the 22nd December, 1972 ; 

And whereas the Central Government is of Opinion that 
public interest requires the extension of the said period; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to sub- clause ( vi ) of clause ( n ) of scction 2 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government bereby declares the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act, for a further 
period of six months from the 22nd June , 1973 . 

[ F. No. S. 11025 / 18 / 73 - LR. I.1 
S . S. SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy. 


आवेश 
का . आ . 1754. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपा 
बद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्ग शिपिंग 
एण्ड क्लीयरिंग ( एजेण्टस ) प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, कलकला के प्रबंध 
तंत्र से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक 
औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है , 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है , 

अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 (1947 का 
14) की धारा 10 की उप - धारा (1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदस्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद का 
उक्त अधिनियम की धारा- 7क के अधीन गठिस केन्द्रीय सरकार 

औदयोगिक अधिकरण, कलकत्ता को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए 
निशित करती है । 


[ फा . सं . एस .-11025 / 19 / 73- एल . आर. 1 ] 

New Delhi, the 4th June, 1973 
S . O . 1752. - Whereas the Central Government having been 
satisfied that tho public interest so required had , in pursuance 
of the provisions of sub- clause ( vi ) of clause ( n ) of section 2 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ), declared 
by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S . O . 4078 dated the 29th November , 1972, 
the banking industry carried on by a banking company as 
defined in clause ( b ) of section 2 of the said Act, to be a 
public utility service for the purposes of the said Act, for a 
period of six months from the 29th December, 1972 . 

And whereas the Central Government is of opinion that 
public interest requires the extension of the said period by a 
further period of six months; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to sub - clause ( vi) of clause ( n ) of section 2 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby declaros the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposcs of the said Act for a further 
period of six months from the 29th June , 1973 . 

[ File No. S. 11025 / 19 / 73 - LR.I.] 
का . आ . 1753. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने, थह समाधान हो जाने 
पर कि लोक हित में ऐसा उपेक्षित था , भारत सरकार के श्रम , 
रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की 
अधिसूचना सं , का . आ . 4188 तारीख 28 नवम्बर, 1972 द्वारा 
दिल्ली पुग्ध स्कीम के अधीन दुग्ध के प्रदाय के लिये उद्योग की 

औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14) के लिए! 
22 दिसम्बर, 1972 से छ: मास की कालावधि के लिये लोक उप 
योगी संवा घोषित किया था । 


अनसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स शिपिंग एण क्लीपरिंग ( एजेण्टमा ) प्राइवेट 

लिमिटेड, कलकत्ता के कर्मकारों, अर्थात सर्वश्री 
चन्द्रिका राय, राम प्रसाद राय , अम्बिका राय , राम नरेश , 
रामदेव , सागर, राम आंध , हरि चरण , धर्मनाथ , रामबजी, 
हरिराय , राम पन्त्र, लाल बहादुर सिंह, मजदूर और श्री 
जाकिर, सुइवर और श्री हैदर खां , क्लीनर, पिनका प्रति 
निधित्व नेशनल यूनियन आफ वाटरफ्रंट वर्कर्स ( इंटक ) 
ट्वारा किया गया , को निम्नलिखित मांगें न्यायोचित है : 
यदि हं , तो वे किस अनुप्ताष के और किस तारीख से 

हकदार हैं ? 
( 1) कर्मकारों के स्थायित्व की घोषणा , 
( 2) वेतनमान का नियतन , 
(3) मुख्य पत्तनों पर पत्तन और डाक कर्मकारों को केन्द्रीय 

मजदूरी बोर्ड की सिफारिशों के अधीन थथा अनझर 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि लोक हित में उक्त 
कालावधि का बढ़ाया जाना अपेक्षित है । 


SEC . 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973 / JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


2225 


क्रम मं० जिले का नाम क्षेत्र का नाम 


कारखाने का नाम 


मंहगाई भत्ता, अतिरिक्त मंहगाई भत्ता, मकान किराया , 

नगर प्रतिकरात्मक भत्ता का संदाय । 
( 4) साप्ताहिक विश्राम । 
(5 ) विशेषाधिकार छट्टी, बीमारी की छट्टी, आकस्मिक 

छट्टी । 


(1) 


( 2) 


(3) 


1. अकोला 


. करजा 


मैसर्स कैलाश दान और फ्लोर 
मिल्म । 


2 . अमरावती 


बदनेरा 


[ सं , एल-32011 / 2/ 73- पी एण्ड डो ] . 

यी शंकरालिंगम , अपर सचिव 


1 मैसर्स गुलाबचन्द प्रायल 

मिल्म । 


ORDER 
S . O . 1754 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinlon 
that an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the management of Messrs Shipping and Clçaring 
( Agents ) Private Limited , Calcutta and their workmen in 
respect of the matters specificd in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 


2 सैसर्स वेजिटेबल पायल 

मैन्युफैक्चरिंग कम्पनी प्राइ 

वेट लिमिटेड । 
मैसर्स बजाज मेटल वर्फम , स्टेशन 

रोड़ । 


3 भण्दाग 


भण्दारा 


And whereas the Central Goveinment considery it desira 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 


1 बलदाना 


मलकापुर 


मैसर्स भारत जनरल एण्ड टैक्स 

टाइल इन्डस्ट्री लिमिटेउ पायल 
मिल्स । 


Now , therefore , in cxercise of the powers conferred by 
clause ( d ) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial 

Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under 
section 7 of the said Act , 


5 नागपुर 


. नागपुर ( काम्टी- मैसर्म ऐशियेटिक प्राक्सीजन 
रोड ) 

एण्ड एक्सीटिलीइन कम्पनी 
लिमिटेड, बती मजिल । 


6 नदेद 


. बाजेगांव 


7 उसमानाबाद 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the following demands of the workmen , 

namely; S / Shri Chandrika Rai, Ram Prasad Rai , 
Ambika Rai, Ram Naresh , Ramdeo, Sagar, Ran 
Audhay Hari Charan , Dharamnath Rambuji Hari 
Ra Ram Chandra . Lal, Bahadur Singh , Mazdoors 
and Shri Zakir, Driver and Shri Haider Khan , 
Cleaner of Messrs Shipping & Clearing ( Agents ) 
Private Limited as represented by National Union 
of Waterfront Workers ( INTUC ) are justified ? If 
so , to what relief are they entitled and from what 
date ? 


मुझद 


मैमर्स मराठवाडा उत्पादक सह 

कारी सूत गिरनी मर्यादित । 
मैसर्स पी० सी० पोल फैक्टरी , 

एम० एस० इल क्ट्रिमिटी बोर्ड । 
मैसर्स डिस्ट्रिक्ट फोआपरेटिव 

डेवलपमेंट सोमाइटी लिमि 
टेट, गाधी भवन , प्राजाद 
मदान । 


8 योतमल 


. लाहोग 


9 औरगाबाद . कागज़ीपुरा 


मैसर्स हैएउमेर पेपर मैन्य 
फैक्चरिंग कोआपरेटिन 
इन्डस्ट्रिलय गामाइटी लिमि 


( 1 ) Declaration of permanency of workmen ; 
(2 ) Fixation of pay scale; 
( 3 ) Payment of dearness allowance , additional dearncss 

allowance , House rent, City Compensatory 
allowance as admissible under the recommendations 
of the Central Wage Board for Port und Dock 

Workers at Major Ports. 
(4 ) Weekly rest. 
( 5) Privilege leave, sick leave and cusual leave. 

__ [ No . L- 32011 / 2 / 73- P & D.] 
V . SANKARALINGAM , Under Secy . 


10 उममानाबाद . उदगीर 


मैमर्स दुर्गा प्रायल मिल्स स्टेशन 

रोड, उदगीर । 


[ फा० स० एस० 380 1 4 ( 7 ) / 73-आन०आई० ] 


नई दिल्ली , 6 जून, 1973 
कामा० 1753 - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 
की 34 ) की धारा 7 च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
कन्द्रीय गरकार , इमसे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट 
कारखानों की उक्त अनुसूनी के स्तम्भ ( 3 ) मे विनिदिष्ट महाराष्ट्र 
राज्य के ऐसे क्षेत्रो मे , जिसमे उक्त प्रधिानयम के अध्याय 4 और 5 
के उपबन्ध प्रवृत नही है , अथस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कार 
ग्रानो को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5-क के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजक 
के विशेष अभिदाय के सदाय मे , इस अधिसूचना के गजपत्र में प्रकाशन 
की तारीख से 30 जून , 1973 तक जिसमें यह दिन भी शामिल है 
या तम तक के लिए जब तक कि उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के 
उपबन्ध उन क्षेत्रो मे प्रवृत नही हो जाते , जो भी पहले हो , छूट देती है । 


New Delhi, the 6th June , 1973 
S .O . 1755. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
73f of the Employees Stato Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), 
the Central Government, having regard to the localion of the 
factorics specified in column ( 4 ) of the Schedule horelo annexcd 
in areas specified in column (3) of the said Schedule, in the 
State of Maharashtra in which the provisions of Chapters IV 
and V of the said Act are not in force, hercby cxempts the said 
factories from the payment of employer s special contribution 
leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act with ellect from the 
date of publicution of this notification in the Otlicial Gazette 
upto and inclusive of the 30th June, 1973 or until the cnforce 
inent of provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in those areas, 
whichever is carlier , 


2226 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/ JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


[ PART II. 


SCHEDULE 


Name of the 

District 


Name of the 
area 


Name of the factory 


No. 


नानिर्दिष्ट ) शीर्षक के नीचे मन 22 के सामने की प्रििष्ट के स्थान 
पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि रखी जाएगी, अर्थात - 
___ "22. श्री एस . एस . संजागिरी , 
उप श्रम आयुक्त. दिल्ली प्रशासन, दिल्लौ । " 

[ फा . सं . यू -16012/ 4/ 73- एस . आई ] 


(1) 


( 2) 


(3 ) 


( 4 ) 


New Delhi, the 8th June, 1973 
S . O . 1756. --- Whereas the Central Government has in 
pursuance of clause (c ) of section 4 of the Employees State 
Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , nominated Shri S . S 
Sanzagiri, Deputy Labour Commissioner, Delhi Administra 
tion , Delhi to represent the Union territories on the Emp 
loyees State Insurance Corporation in place of Shri V . K . 
Chanana ; 


Now, therefore , in pursuance of section 4 of the Emp 
loyees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendinent 
in the notification of the Government of Irdia in the late 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Dep 
artment of Labour and Employinent ) No. S . O . 2763, dated 
the 27th May , 1971, namely : 


1. Akola . . Karanja 

Messrs Kailash Dal and 

Flour Mills . 
2. Amravati Barinera 1. Messis Gulab chand 

Oil Mills. 
2 . Messrs Vegetable Oil 

Manufacturing Con 

pany Private Ltd . 
3 . Bhandara . Bhandara Messes Bajaj Metal 

Works, Station Road . 
4. Buldhana . Malkapur Messrs Bharat General 

and Textile Industry 

Limited , Oil Mills . 
5. Nagpur . . Nagpur _ Messrs Asiatic Oxygen 
(Kamptcc Road ) and Accetyline Com 

pany Limited , Vali 

Manzil. 
6. Nanded . . Wazegaon Messrs Marathwado Ut 

padak Sahkari Sut 

Girni Maryadit, 
7 . Osmanabad Murud 

Messrs PC. Pole Fac 
___ tory M . S . Electricity 

Board . 
8. Yeotmal . . Lahora Messrs District Co 

operative Develop 

ment Society , Ltd . 
Gandhi Bhavan , Azad 

Maidan . 
9 . Aurangabad . Kagripura 1 . Messrs Hand Made 

Paper Manufacturing 
Co -oncrative Indus 

trial Society Limited . 
10. Osmanbad Udgir Messrs Durga Oil Mills 

Station Road , Udvir . 
- - - - - - - -- - 

- - - - 
[ File No . S -38014/7/ 73 _ HI] 


In the said notification , under the head (Nominated by 
the Central Government under clause ( c ) of section 4 to 
Ieprosent union territories for the entry against item 22 the 
following entry shall be substituted, namely : 


" 22. Shri S.S. Sanzagiri, Deputy Labour Commissioner , 
Delhi Administration , Delhi." 

No. U -16012 / 4 / 73- HI ] 
का . आ . 1757.--कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 
( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73- च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार, एस्लाडरा सीवेज प्यूरीफिकेशन ट्रीटमेन्ट 
प्लांद, बड़ौदा म्यूनिसिपल कापोरेशन , अकोला पाडरा रोड, बड़ौदा 
नामक कारखाने की , ऐसे क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के 
अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबंध प्रवृत्त है , अस्थिति को ध्यान में 
रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 - क 
के अधीन उदाहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय से इस अधि 
सूचना के राजपत्र में प्रकाशन की तारीख से 30 जून , 1973 सक 
जिसमें वह दिन भी शामिल है , छट देती है । 


नई दिल्ली, 8 जून , 1973 
का . आ . 1756. – यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा 
अर्धािनयम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 4 के खण्ड ( म ) के 
अनुसरण में श्री वी . के. चानन के स्थान पर श्री एस . एस . संजागिरी, 
उप श्रम आयुक्स , दिल्ली प्रशासन , दिल्ली को कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा 
निगम में संघ राज्य क्षेत्रों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने के लिए नाम 
निर्दिष्ट किया है , 


[ फा . सं . 38014( 37) / 73- स्व , आई. ] 

दलजीत सिंह, अपर सचिव 


___ असः, अब , कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 
34 ) की धारा 4 के अनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार, भारत सरकार के 
भूतपूर्व श्रम, रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार 
विभाग ) की अधिसूचना स . का , आ . 2763, तारीख 27 मई , 1971 
में निम्नलिखित और संशोधन करती है , अर्थात : 


S. O . 1757 . -In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
73F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 
1948 ), the Central Government , having regard to the location 
of the factory , namely the Atlandara Sewage Purification 
Treatment Plant, Baroda Municipal Corporation, Akola 
Padra Road . Baroda in an arca in which the provisions of 
Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force , hereby 
exempts the said factory from the payment of the cmpio 
yer s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the 
said Act with effect from date of publication of this noti 
fication in thọ Official Gazette upto and inclusive of the 
30th June , 1973 . 


उक्त अधिसूचना में ( केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा धारा 4 के खंड 
( ) के अधीन संघ राज्यक्षेत्रों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने के लिए 


[ File No. S.- 38014 / 37 / 73- HI ] 
DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


PRINTED BY THE MANAGER GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS , RING ROAD , NEW DELHI, 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI- 6 , 1973 


