REGISTERED No. D. 222 


%\\z Gazette 



of inbia 


«u> twain* 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 30] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of Indin Extraordinary were published upto the 17th July, 

1961 : — 


Issue No. and Date Issued bv Subject 

No. 


77 . 


G.S.R. 932,|d a ted isth July, 
1961. 


Ministry of [Food The Rice (Madhya Pradesh) 
and Agriculture. Second Price Control 
(Eighth Amendment) Order, 
1961. 


G.S.R. 933/dated 15th July, 
1961. 


Do The Rice (Punjab) Second 

Price Control (Eighth 
Amerdmert) Ordtr, 1961. 


7h G S.R. 934, dated iythjjulv, 
1961. 


Do. Certain directions legardu g 

the price at which Rtct or 
paddy shall be sold in u. y 
locality in Orissa State, 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Public lions, Civil Lines Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days t>f the date of issue of 
those Gazettes. 


PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (i) 

General Statutory Rules (including orders, bye-laws etc. of a general 
character) issued by the Ministries of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central Authorities (other than 
the Administrations of Union Territories). 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 10 th July 1061 

G.S.R. 963 . — -In exercise of the powers conferred by section 2 of the Union 
Territories (Laws) Act, 1950 (30 of 1950 ) the Central Government hereby extends 
to the Union territory ol Tripura, the Bengal Municipal Act, 19,32 (Bengal Act XV 


< 1025 ) 



1026 the GAZETTE OF INDIA JULY ID. UOi SRUANA 7, 1883 |P\rt II 


of 1832), as at present in force in the State of West Bengal, subject to the follow- 
ing modifications, namely: — 


MODIFICATIONS 


1. In section 1 — 

(I) for sub-sections (2) and (3), the following sub-sections shall be substi- 
tuted, namely: — 

"(2)- It extends to the whole of the Union territory of Tripura, 

(3) It shall come into iorce on the fifteenth day of August 1,961.” 

(ii) sub-sections (41 and (5) shall be omitted. 

2. Section 2 shall be omitted. 

3. In section 3 — 

(1) for clause (12), the following clause shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(12). “District Magistrate” means the District Magistrate of Tripura and 
includes an Additional District Magistrate;”; 

(ii) clause (20) shall be omitted; 

(iii) after clause 37(a), the following clause shall be substituted, namely. — 
“37(a). “Official Gazette" means “Tripura Gazette-"; 

(lv) in clause (45) for the words and figures “under the Bengal Medical Act, 
1914”, the words “under any law relating to the registration of medical 
practitioners in force in India” shall be substituted. 

(v) after clause (50) the following shall be added, namely: — 

‘(50a) “State Government” means the Chief Commissioner of Tripura’; 

4. In section 15, in sub-section (1), for the words "not being more than thirty 
nor less than nine”, the words “not being more than twenty nor less than six” shall 
be substituted. 

5. In section 16, In the first proviso, for clause (b), the following clause shall be 
(substituted, namely; — 

“(b) be citizens of India, and”. 

6. In section 20, the following proviso shall be added, namely: — 

“Provided that until otherwise directed by the State Government after consi- 
deration of the views of the Commissioners, Agartala Municipality 
shall remain divided into six wards.” 

7. In section 23 — 

(1) In sub-section (2) — 

(a) in sub-clause (il), the words, figures and brackets "or being an alien has 

been exempted from the ■disabilities imposed by the Bengal (Aliens) 
Disqualification Act, 1918” shall be omitted; 

(b) In clause (iii) (a), the following shall be omitted, namely: — 

“or In the case of the Municipality of Howrah, any sum as consolidated rate 
under the provisions of the Calcutta Municipal Act, 11123, as extended 
to that Municipality”; 

(c) In the proviso to clause (111) (a), for the words and figures “as defined 

In Section 15 of the Bengal Municipal Act, 1884”, the words and figures 
“as defined in section 13(2) (Gha) (1) of Tripura State Municipal Act, 
1349 T.E.”, shall be substituted; 

(d) in clause (iii) (c) — 

(i) for the words “Matriculation Examination of the Calcutta University or 
a corresponding standard of the same or any other university, or the 
High School Examination of the Board of Intermediate and Secondary 
Education, Dacca”, the words “Matriculation Examination or a corres- 
ponding standard of any University or the School Final Examination 
held by the Board of Secondary Education” shall be substituted; 



Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDL4 : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVAnA 7, 1883 


1027 


(il) the words “of the Calcutta Sanskrit Association” and the words and 
figures “under the Bengal Medical Act, 1914” shall be omitted, 

<2) in sub-section (4), the words, figures and brackets, “subject to tke provi- 
sions of the Bengal (Aliens) Disqualification Act, 1918” shall .be omit- 
ted. 

(3) in sub-section (5) , the words and figures "or in respect of the consolidated 
rate under the provisions of the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1923, as 
extended to the Municipality of Howrah” shall be omitted. 

8. In sub-section (3) of section 24, the words “in his district” shall be omitted, 

9. In section 35, the words, figures and brackets “or of an offence punishable 
under section 4 or section 9 of the West Bengal Local Bodies (Electoral Offices and 
Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1952” shall be omitted. 

10. In sub-section (1) of section 38, for clause (b) the following shall be substi- 
tuted, namely: — 

“(b) the election has not been a free election by reason of the general employ- 
ment of bribery or undue Influence within the meaning of section 123 
of the Representation of People Act, 1951 or by any reason of any form 
of general Intimidation, including any form of social boycott, or” 

11. In section 57, sub-sections (5) and (6) shall be omitted. 

12. In section 88, the provisos to sub-sections (1) and (3) shall be omitted 

13. Section 93-F shall be omitted. 

14. In section 95 — 

(a) in sub-section (1), for the words “by the Central or the State Govern- 

ment”. the words 'by the Central Government’ shall be substituted: 

(b) in sub-section (3) 

(i) the words “derived under any of the enactments specified in Schedule I, 

or otherwise and” shall be omitted. 

(ii) for the words and figures “Bengal Municipal Act, 1884”, the words, 

figures and letters “Tripura State Municipal Act 1349 T,E.” shall be 
substituted. 

(iii) for the words “under any such enactment” the words “under such enact- 

ment” shall be substituted. 

15. In section 97, In sub-section (3), the words "of West Bengal” shall be omitted. 

10. In section 102A, for the words "State Government” occurring for the first 
time, the words “Central Government” shall be substituted. 

17. In section 106, in the proviso, for the words "Imperial Bank”, the words 
“State Bank” shall be substituted. 

18. In section 108, in sub-section (1), in clause (xxi), the words and figures 
"and the Bengal Cruelty to Animals Act, 1920” shall be omitted. 

19. In section 113, for the words "in the vernacular of the district.” in the two 
places where they occur, the words “in Bengali” shall be substituted. 

20- In section 120, for the words "State Government” except in the first place 
where they occur, the words “Central Government” shall be substituted. 

21. In section 122-1 — 

In sub-section (2), for the words and figures "as a public demand 

to whom such demand is payable”, the following shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

“as if it were an arrear of land revenue under the Tripura Land Revenue 
and Land Reforms Act, 1900 (43 of I960)”. 

22. In section 122J, in sub-section (4), for the words “State Government” 
occurring for the second time, the words “Central Government” shall be substi- 
tuted. 



1028 THE GAZETTE or INDIA: JULY 29. 1061 priUTANV 7, 1883 [Purr II 


23. In section 124, — 

(1) in sub-section (1), for clause (a), the following clause shall bo substi- 

tuted, namely: 

“(a) in any municipality at a rate exceeding ten per centum on the 
annual value of holdings"; 

(2) sub-section (4) shall be omitted. 

24. In section 12B, for the word “cooly-depot”, wherever it occurs, the word 
"Mazdoor-depot” shall be substituted. 

25. In section 162, in sub-section (1), for the words and figures "by certificate 
under the Bengal Public Demands Recovery Act, 1913”, the words, figures and 
letters “as if it were an arrear of land revenue under the provisions of the Tri- 
pura Land Revenue and Land Reforms Act 1960 (43 of I960)’’ shall he substituted. 

20. In section 167, for the words and figures “the Bengal Tenancy Act, 1885” 
the words “the tenancy law for the time being in force” shall be substituted. 

27. In section 168, in sub-section (3), — 

(I) clause (b) shall be omitted; 

(ii) for clause (cl , the following clause shall be substituted, namely:— 

"(c) carriages or animals belonging to the Central Government, the Tri- 
pura Territorial Council or to the Commissioners or for keeping 
which for the execution of their duty an allowance is made by the 
Central Government, the Tripura Territorial Council or by the 
Commissioners to any of their officers”. 

28. In section 183, in sub-section (2), — 

(i) for clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:— 

"(a) carts which are the property of the Central Government, the Tripura 
Territorial Council or of the Commissioners”; 

(II) clause (c) shall be omitted. 

29. In section 182, for the words beginning with “the amount of compensation" 
and ending with "for the time being in force”, the following shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

“The amount of compensation due in such cases shall be ascertained and 
awarded by the District Magistrate in the following manner: — 

The compensation shall be calculated upon an estimate of the annual net 
profit actually realised by the person entitled to compensation under 
the proviso from such ferry on an average of the five years next 
preceding such declaration, and shall in no case exceed the amount 
of fifteen times such net annual profit.” 

30. In sections 194 and 202, for the words “Commissioner of the Division”, the 
words "District Magistrate” shall be substituted. 

31. In section 198, the following paragraph shall be omitted: — 

“This section shall not apply to any private ferry which was in existence 
at the commencement of the Bengal Municipal Act, 1884”. 

32. In section 200, for the words and figures “Bengal Municipal Act, 1884”, the 
words, figures and letters “Tripura State Municipal Act, 1349 T.E.” shall be sub- 
stituted. 

33. In section 2 W in sub -section (1) — 

(i) in the opening paragraph, after the words “dr the persons incharge of 

them”, the words “or for tire- passage of stores belonging to the 
Tripura Territorial Council or the persons incharge of them” shall 
be inserted; 

(ii) the word:: “or District Board’ occurring in the second paragraph may 

be omiLted. 

34. Sections 213 and 214 shall be omitted. 

35. In section 241, in sub-section (3), the proviso and the sentence “In deter- 
mining the amounl of compensation the value of the land shall not be taken Into 
consideration” shall be omitted. 



Sfc, 9(i)| THE GAZE I f £ OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 1029 


30. In section 270, the proviso shall be omitted. 

37. In section 270, sub-section (2), and in section 281, sub-section (4), for the 

"words and figure 1 ' “under the Local Authorities Loans Act, 1914 and all the pro- 
visions of that Act and rules made thereunder referring to the recovery of loans 
shall be applicable to such advance", the words "under the relevant Act and rules 
governing the recovery of loans m force in the LInion territory of Tripura shall 
be substituted. 

38. In section 284, the proviso shall be ormtled. 

39. In section 235, sub-scction (4) shall be omitted. 

40. In section 312, the proviso to sub-section (2) shall be omitted. 

41. In section 322, clause (e) shall be omitted. 

42. In section 334, the proviso shall be omitted. 

43. In > action 252, for the words “Director Public Health", wherever they 
occur, the words “Superintendent, Victoria Memorial Hospital, Agartala” shall be 
substituted 

44. For section 354, the following section shall be substituted, namely: — 

'354 Fee for analysis of water. — Where the State Government have appoint- 
ed a person to be the Public Analyst for such local area as mav be 
defined under section fl of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 
1954 (37 of 1954) the Commissioners mav. with the consent of the 
Slate Government, dircet that any analysis prescribed under sections 
352 und 353 of this Act shall be made bv such an unalyst on the pay- 
ment of such fees by the Commissioners for whom the analysis may 
be made, as the State Government may fix". 

45. In section 370, in sub-section (4). for the words and figures “The Indian 
Petroleum Act, 1899”, the words and figures “The Petroleum Act, 1934” shall be 
substituted. 

40. In sub-s-ction (3) of section 390, and in sub-section (2) of section 391, for 
, the words “Commissioner of the Division”, wherever they occur, the words “Dis- 
trict Magistrate” shall be substituted. 

47. Section 398A shall be omitted. 

48 In section 437, for the words “Commissioner of the Division”, the words 
■“District Magistrate" shall be substituted. 

49. In section 444, for the words and figures “in accordance with the provisions 
of the Bengal Births and Deaths Registration Act, 1873 or any other similar Act 
for the time being in force”, the words “in accordance with the provisions of the 
law relating to registration of births and deaths in force in the Union Territory 
of Tripura” shall he substituted. 

50 In section 445, for the words and figures “the Bengal Births and Deaths 
Registration Act, 1873”, the words “the law relating to the registration of births 
and deaths for the time being in force in Tripura" shall be substituted. 

51. For section 446, the following section shall be substituted, namely: — 

"446. Registrars at burning-ghats and burial gremnds . — Whenever a sub- 

Registrar has been appointed for any burning-ghat or burial ground 
under section 443, information of the particulars required, by the law 
referred to in that section, to be known and registered may be given 
in respect of the death of any person whose body is brought to such 
burning-phat or burial ground for cremation or interment to such 
Sub-Registrar and information so given shall be deemed to be infor- 
mation given to the Registrar as required by such law. The provi- 
sions of the said law shall be applicable to all sub-Registrars appoint- 
ed under this Act,” 

52. In section 447, for the words and figures "under the Bengal Births and 
Deaths Registration Act, 1873”, the words “under the law in force In Tripura” 
shall be substituted, and for the words “under the said Act”, the words “under 
the said law” shall be substituted. 

53. Section 481 shall be omitted. 

54. Section 462 shall be omitted. 



1030 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . JULY A D.Il i HAVANA 7, 1885 lfi\rr II 


55. Chapter XXIII containing sections 469 to 499 inclusive shall be omitted. 

56. In the Table below section 500, the entries relating to the sections begin* 
nmg with section 474 and ending with section 493 shall be omitted. 

57. Section 543 shall be omitted. 

58. In sections 544 and 544A, for the words “Commissioner of the Division’' 
wherever they occur and in section 544A, for the word “Commissioner”, the words 
"District Magistrate” shall be substituted. 

59. In section 545, in sub-section (1), the words “Commissioner of the Division 
or the", and “division or” shall be omitted. 

60. In section 648 — - 

(I) in sub-section (2), for the words “the Commissioner of the Division or 

the District Magistrate”, the words “The District Magistrate” shall be* 
substituted and for the words “division or district as the case may- 
be”, the word “district” shall be substituted; 

(II) in sub-section (3), the words “the Commissioner of the Division or the” 

shall be omitted. 

61. In section 557, — 

(i) in sub-section (1), for the figures and word, “III, IV, VII, VIII and TX” 

the figures and word, “III and IV” shall be substituted; 

(ii) in sub-section (2), the words “or under sub-section (2) of section 17 

or sub-section (4) of section 124” shall be omitted. 

62. Schedules V, VII, VIII and IX shall be omitted. 

2. This notification shall come into force on the fifteenth day of August 1961. 

Annexure 

THE BENGAL MUNICIPAL ACT, 1932, AS EXTENDED TO THE UNION 
TERRITORY OF TRIPURA 

Bengal Act XV, of 1932 

An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to municipalities in Bengal. 

Whereas it Is expedient to consolidate and amend the law relating to munici- 
palities in Bengal; 

And whereas the previous sanction of the Governor-General has been obtain- 
ed under sub-section (3) of section 80A of the Government of India Act to the 

M assing of this Act; 5 and 6, Geo., v.c. 61; 6 and 7 Geo., v.c. 37; 9 and 10 Geo. v.c. 

01 . 

It is hereby enacted as follows: — - 


PART I 

Chapter— Preliminary 

1. Short title, extent and commencement.— (1) This Act may be called the- 
Bengal Municipal Act, 1932. 

(2) It extends to the whole of the union territory of Tripura. 

(3) It shall come into force on the fifteenth day of August, 1961 

3. Definitions. — In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject 
or context, — 

(al) “auditor” means an auditor appointed under section 122A, and includes 
any officer authorised by him to perform all or any of the functions of the 
auditor under Chapter IvA; 

(1) bridge" includes a culvert; 

(2) . “building” includes a house, out-house, stable, privy, urinal, shed, hut, 
wall (other than a boundary wall, not exceeding ten feet in height) and any 
other such structure, whether of masonry, bricks, wood, mud, metal or any 
other material whatsoever, hut does not include a hogl a or other similar kind 
or temporary shed erected on ceremonial or festive occasions; 



Slc. Sfi)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


IO31 


(3) “building line’’ means the line up to which the main wall of a building 
abutting on a street or a projected public street may lawfully extent; 

(4) “bustee’’ means an area containing land occupied by, or for the purposes 
of, any collection of huts; 

(5) "carriage” means any wheeled vehicle, with springs or other appliances 
acting as springs, which is used for the conveyance of human beings, nnd includes 
a jinrickshaw and a cycle-rickshaw, but docs not include a motor vehicle or a 
bicycle or a tricycle or a perambulator or other form of vehicle designed for the 
conveyance of small children; 

(6) “cart” means any cart, hackery or wheeled vehicle with or without 
springs, which is not a carriage or a motor vehicle as defined in this section and. 
includes a hand-cart, but does not include the trailer of a motor vehicle, a 
bicycle or a tricycle or a perambulator or other form of vehicle designed for 
the conveyance of small children; 

(7) “connected-privy" means a privy which is directly connected with a 
sewer; 

(81 “conservancy” means the removal and disposal of sewage, offensive 
matter and rubbish; 

(9) the expression “cubical extent,” when used with reference to the 
measurement of a building, means the space contained within the external sur- 
faces of its walls and roof and the upper surface of the floor of its lowest or 
only storey; 


(10) “dairy” includes any farm, cattle-shed, cow-house, milk store, milk- 
shop, or other place from which milk is supplied only on, or for, sale or in which 
milk is kept, or used for the purposes of sale, or manufacture into butter, ghee, 
cheese, curds, or dried or condensed milk, for sale; 

and in the case of a dairyman or person selling milk, who docs not occupy 
any premises for the sale of milk, includes the place where he keeps the vessels 
used by him for the sale of milk, but does not include a shop from which milk 
is not supplied otherwise than in properly closed and unopened receptacles in 
whn h It jvas delivered to the shop, or a shop, or other place in which milk is 
sold for consumption on the premises only or a shop or place from which milk 
is sold or supplied in hermetically closed and unopened receptacles in the same 
original condition in which it wa; first received in such shop or place; 

(11) “dangerous disease” means — 

(a) cholera, plague, small-pox, cercbro-spinal meningitis and diphtheria; 

and 

(b) any other disease which the State Government may by notification, 

declare to be a dangerous disease for all or any of the purposes of 
this Act; 

(121 “District Magistrate” means the District Magistrate of Tripura and in- 
cludes an Additional District Magistrate; 

(13) “dram” includes a sewer, a house-drain, a drain of any other description, 
a tunnel, a culvert, a ditch, a channel and any other device for carrying off 
sullagc, sewage, offensive matter, polluted water, rainwater or sub-soil water; 

(14) “drug” means any substance used as medicine or in the composition or 
preparation of medicines, whether for Internal or external use hut does not 
include a drug within the meaning of clause (b) of section 3 of the Drugs Act, 
1940 (XXIII of 1940); 

(15) “dwelling house” means a masonry or framed building constructed, used 
or adapted to be used wholly or principally for human habitation; 

(16) “food" includes every article used for food or drink by man, other than 
drugs or water, and any article which ordinarily enters into or is used in the 
composition or preparation of human food, and also includes confectionery, 
flavouring and colouring matters and spices and condiments; 



1032 


[Part II 


THF. GAZE LI E OF INDIA: JULY 39, l'Jfii ySRAVANA 7, 1883 


( Part I, — -Chapter J.—Prehrninari). — Sec. 3.j. 

(17) “framed building" means a building the external walls of which are 
constructed of timber framing or iron framing, and the stability of which de- 
pends on such framing; 

(18) “habitable room” means a room constructed or adapted for human habi- 
tation; 

( 19> “Health Officer” includes a Medical Officer of Health; 

********* 

(21) “holding” means land held under one title or agreement and surround- 
ed by one set of boundaries: 

Provided that where two or more adjoining holdings form part and parcel of 
the site or premises of a dwelling house, manufactory, warehouse or place of 
trade or business, such holdings shall be deemed to be one holding for tile pur- 
pose of this Act. 

Explanation. — Holding separated by a street or other means of communica- 
tion shall bo deemed to be adjoining within the meaning of tins proviso; 

(22) "house” includes any hut, shop or ware-house; 

(23) “house-gully" mean a passage or strip of land constructed, set apart or 
utilized for the purpose of serving as a drain or of affording access to a privy, 
urinal, cesspool or other receptacle for filthy or polluted matter to municipal 
servants or to persons employed in the cleansing thereof or in the removal of 
such matter therefrom, and includes the air space above such passage or land; 

(24) “hut” means any building which is constructed principally of wood, 
bamboo, mud, leaves, grass or thatch, and includes any temporary structure of 
whatever size or any small building (not being a masonry building) of what- 
ever material made; 

(25) •inhabitant” used with reference to any local area means any person 
ordinarily residing or carrying on business or owning or occupying immovable 
property therein; 

(26) “inhabited room” means a room in which some person passes the night, 
or which is used as a living room, and includes a room with respect, to which 
there is a reasonable presumption (until the contrary is shown) that some 
person passes the night therein or that it is used as a living room; 

(27) “land” includes benefits arising out of land, and things attached to the 
earth, or permanently fastended to anything attached to the earth; 

(28) “living thing” includes any animal bird or fish; 

(28) “lodging-house” means a house in which pilgrims or other persons are 
harboured or lodged for hire for a single night or for some other short period 
and where there is ordinarily community of eating or sleeping accomodation; 

(30) “market” includes any place where persons assemble for the sale of any 
living thing intended for human food or of any article of food; 

(31) "masonry building” means any building other than a framed building 
or a hut and includes any structure a substantial part of which is made of 
masonry or of steel, iron or other metal; 

(31a) “meter” includes and shall be deemed to have always included any 
apparatus set up or fixed for checking or measuring the consumption of water 
or gas, as the case may be; 

(32) * 100(01 vehicle” includes a vehicle, carriage or other means of con- 
veyance propelled or which may be propelled, on a road by electrical or 
mechanical power either entirely or partially; 

(33) "municipal drain” means a drain vested in the Commissioners; 

(34) “municipality” means any place in which this Act, or any part thereof, 
is in force; 

(35) “notification” moans a notification published in the Official Gazette; 



Snc. 5 (.I)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 20, 196I/SRAVANA 7 1883 


(36) “occupier” means any person for the time being paying, or liable to 
pay, to the owner the rent or any poition of the rent of the land or building in 
respect of which the wmd is used oi damages on account of the occupation of 
such land or building, and includes an owner living in, or otherwise using, his 
own land or building and also a rent-free tenant; 

(37) “offensive matter" means kitchen oi stable lefusi, dung, dnt, putrid or 
putrifying substances and filth of any kind which is not included in sewage as 
defined in this section; 

( 7 i) Offlual Gazette” means “Tripuia Ga-clte,” 

(38) “owner” includes the pei son foi the tunc be in" receiving 'he lent of 
any land or building or of anv part of any land or building whether on hia own 
account or as agent or trustee for any person or society or foi any religious or 
charitable purpose, or as a leceivei, or who would so receive such lent if the 
land, building or pari thereof were let to a tenant, 

(39) “plinth” means the pait of a wall or structure between the giouud-level 
and the level of the lowest floni of a building; 

(40) “premises” includes lands, buildings, vehicles, tents, vans, structures of 
any kind, streams, lakes sea-shoii, drains ditches or ulace open, coie.ed, nr 
enclosed, whether built on or not, and whether public or private, and ’< hethor 
natural or artificial and whether maintained or not under statutory authority, 
and any vessel lying in any Jivcr, harbour or other water not being a port 
declared under the Indian Poits Act, 1908 (XV of 1908); 

(41) “prescribed” means prescribed by this Act or by rules or by-laws made 
theieunder; 

(42) “private dram” means any drain which is not a municipal chain as 
defined in this section; 

(43) ^private street” means any street, road, lane, gully, alloy, pa cage or 
securing square which is not a public street as defined in this section, but does 
not include a passage securing access to less than four premises, or a passage 
provided in effecting the partition of any masonry building amongst joint owners, 
where such passage is not Jess than eiglii feet wide; 

(44) “public street” means any street, road, lane, gully, alley, passage, 
pathway, square or court whether a thoroughfare or not, over which the pub- 
lic have a right of way, and includes — 

(a) the access or approach to a public ferry, 

(b) the roadway over any public bridge or causeway, 

(c) the footway attached to any such street, public bridge or causeway, 

(d) the passage connecting two public streets, and 

(e) drains attached to any such street, public bridge or causeway, and 

where there is no drain attached to any such street, shall bo deemed 
to include also, unless the contrary is shown, all land up to the 
boundary wall, ail, hedge or pillar of the premises, if any abutting 
on the street, or if a street alignment has been fixed, then up to such 
alignment; 

(45) “registered medical practitioner” means a medical practioner i^gistered 
under any law relating to the registration of medical practitioners in force i i India; 

(46) “rubbish” means dust, ashes, broken bricks, mortar, broken glass, and 
refuse of any kind which is not offensive matter or sewage as defined in this 
section; 

(47) “school” includes a maktab, a madarssah and a tol; 

(48) “service-privy” means a fixed privy which is cleansed by hand 1 1 loes 
not include a movable commode; 

(49) “sewage” means night-soil and other contents of privies, urinaL, cess- 
pools or drains, and includes trade efficients and discharges irom manufactories 

of all kinds; i | 



1034 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA JULY 2‘), l%- ,nK VVAVA 7, '•'SI [Part II 


(50) "slaughter-house” means any piai_c used fur the slaughter of rattle, sheep, 
goats, kids, or pigs for the purpose of selling the flesh thereof as meat; 

(50a) "State Government” means the Chief Commissioner of Tripura; 

(51 1 “stiee” means a public or private street; 

(52) “street alignment” means the line dividing the land comprised in 
and forming part of a street from the adjoining land; 

(53) “the Commissioners” means the persons for the time being appointed 
or elected to conduct the affairs of any municipality under this Act; 

(54) “Magistrate” includes the District Magistrate, the Magistrate m charge of 
a division ul the d strict in which division a municipality is constituted, and every 
Magistrate of the ilrst class subordinate to the District Magistrate to whom the 
District Magistrate may have made over any duties under this Act; 

(55) “water course” includes any river, stream, or channel whether natural 
or artificial ; 

(50) “water for domestic purposes” shall not be deemed to include a supply — 

(a) for animals or for washing carnages, where such animals or carriages 

are kept for sale or hire, 

(b) for any trade, manufacture or business, 

(c) for fountains, 

(d) for watering gardens or streets, 

(e) for any ornamental or mechanical purpose, 

(f) for building purposes, or 

(g) for flushing purposes, except a supply allowed for flushing connected- 

privies in accordance with a resolution of the Commissioners; 

(57) “water-works” includes -all lakes, tanks, streams, cisterns, springs, pumps, 
wells, reservoirs, aqueducts, cuts, sluices, mains, pipes, culverts, engines, hydrants, 
stand-pipes, conduits, and all machinery, lands, buildings, bridges, and things for 
supplying or used for supplying water; 

(58) “year” means a year beginning on the first day of April, 

3A. Residence within the limits of a Municipality. — A person shall be deemed 
to be resident within the limits of a municipality If he maintains a dwelling place 
within the municipality and occasionally uses such place or any pait thereof as 
a sleeping apartment. A person shall not be dtemed to cease to reside wi'hin 
the limits of the municipality merely because of his absence from the dwelling 
place if he is entitled to return to such place at any time and has not abandoned 
me Intention ol returning to such place, 

4. Extent of power conferred on an authority. — (1) Where a power Is expressed, 
as being lonferterl on any authority lo lequiie a person to do one thing or do 
another thing, that authority may, in its discretion, require the 'person to do cither 
thing or, if the nature of the case permits, both of the things, or may give the- 
person the option of doing whichever of the things he chooses. 

(2) Where the power is expressed as being conferred on any authority to requ.re 
a person to do a number oi things, that authority may from time to time in Its 
discretion lequire that person to do any one or more of those things. 

5 Power to define character of building— The Commissioneys at a meeting may 
decide whether any particular building is a masonry building, a framed building, 
or a hut, or is a lodging-house, as defined In section 3, and their decision shall be 
Anal. 

PART II 

Chapter II — The Municipalities 
The creation oj municipalities 

6 Declaration of Intention to constitute, abolish or alter limits of municipality. — 

(1) The State Government may. by notification, and by such other means as It 
may determine, declare its intention- 

fa) to constitute any town, together with, or exclusive of, any railway 
station, village, land or building In the vicinity of any such town a 
municipality under this Act; or 



i°35 


Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 196I/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


(b) to withdraw any municipality from the operation of this Act; or 

(c) to exclude from a municipality any local area comprised therein and- 

defined in the notification; or 

(d) to include within a municipality any local area contiguous to the same. 

and defined in the notification; or 

(e; to divide any municipality into two or more municipalities; or 

(I) to unite two or more municipalities so as to form one municipality, or 

(g) to define the limits of any municipality; or 

(h) to revise the boundaries of two or more contiguous municipalities; or 

(1) to alter the number of Commissioners of a municipality in consideration 
inter alia of the increase or decrease in the population, income, num- 
ber of voters and commercial and general importance of the place; 

Provided that a declaration shall not be made — 

(i) under clause (a), unless the State Government is satisfied that three- 

fourths of the adult male population of the town to which it refers 
are chiefly employed in pursuits other than agriculture, and that 
such town contains not less than three thousand Inhabitants, and an 
average number of not less than one thousand inhabitants to the . 
square mile of the area of such town; 

(11; under clause (b) and clauses (d) to (g) In the case of any municipality 
In which the conditions specified in proviso (I) arc complied with, 
except after taking into consideration the views of the Commissioners 
of the municipality or each of the municipalities concerned at a 
meeting; 

(ill) where any local area is to be excluded from a municipality under clause 
(c) of which area three-fourths of the adult male population are. 
chiefly employed in pursuits other than agriculture and In which area 
the average number of inhabitants is not less than one thousand to 
the square mile, except after consideration of the views of the Com- 
missioners at a meeting; 

flv; under clause (d), unless the State Government Is satisfied that three- 

iourths of the adult male population of the local area to which it 

refers are chiefly employed in pursuits other thari agriculture; 

(v; under clause (h), except after consideration of the views of the Com- 
missioners of each of the municipalities concerned at a meeting; 

(.vi) where any part of a town or local area affected by any declaration under 
this section Is a cantonment or part of a cantonment, 

(2) A copy, both In English and in Bengali, of every notification Issued under 

sub-section (1) shall be posted up in a conspicuous place In the office of the Com- 

missioners of the municipality or municipalities concerned, or, in the case of a 
notification under clause (a) of that sub-section. In the office of the District 
Magistrate, and in such other public places as the Commissioners or the District 
Magistrate, as the case may be, may direct; 

and a public proclamation shall be made by beat of drum throughout the 
municipality or local area concerned that such copy has been so posted up. and 
is open to Inspection in such office. 

7. Consideration of objections.— Any inhabitant of the town or local area, or 
any rate-payer of the municipality or municipalities in respect of which a notifica- 
tion has been published under section 6 may, if he objects to anything contained 
In the notification, submit his objections in writing to the State Government within 
three months from the date of the publication, and the State Government shall 
take his objection into consideration. 

8. Constitution, abolition or alteration of limits of a municipality. — When three 
months from the date of the publication of the notification have expired, and after 
considering any objections which may be submitted, the State Government may by 
notification— 

(a) constitute the town or any specified part thereof a municipality under 

this Act; or 

(b) withdraw the whole area comprised in the municipality from the opera,-. 

tion of this Act; or 



1036 THE GAZE I TE OF INDIA : JUIA 2‘) lUUlySR VVANA 7, 1883 [Pari II 


(c) include the local area or any part thereof in the municipality or exclude 
it therefrom; or 

03) divide the municipality into two or more municipalities or unite the 
municipalities, as the case may be; or 

(c) define the limits of any municipality; or 

(fj revise the boundaries of two or more continguous municipalities; or 

Ig) alter the number of Commissioners of a municipality in consideration 
inter alia of the increase or decrease in the population, income, 
number of voters and commercial and general importance r.f the place. 

9 Power to include certain dwelling-house, manufactory, etc,, within a particular 
municipality, — Where a dwelling-house, manufactory, ware-house, place of trade 
or business is situated within the limits of two or more adjacent municipalities 
the State Government may, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, by 
notification, declare within which of these municipalities such dwelling-house, 
manufactory, ware-house, place of trade or business shall be deemed to be inrluded 
for fhc purposes of this Act. 

10. Application of Act and subsidiary orders in areas Included within a munici- 
pality .—-When any local area is included in a municipality by a notification under 
clause (e) or clause (f) of section 8 all the provisions of this Act and of any 
rules, by-laws, notifications, or orders made thereunder, which Immediately before 
such Inclusion were in force throughout such municipality, shall be deemed to 
apply to such area unless the State Government in arid by the notification othmwRe 
directs. 

11. Continuance of Act and subsidiary orders in municipalities form'd by 
division. — When any municipality is divided into two or more municipalities by a 
notification under clause (d) of section 8 then, notwithstanding anything co. tamed 
in this Act, all the provisions of this Act and of any rules, by-laws, notiflcati is, or 
orders made thereunder, which immediately before such division were in force in 
any part of the original municipality, shall be deemed to be In force in the same 
part of the municipalities formed by the division, unless the State Government in 
and by the notification otherwise directs. 

12. Discontinuance of Act and subsidiary orders in municipalities withdrawn 
from Act, or in areas excluded. — When the whole area comprised in a municipality 
is withdrawn from the operation of this Act. or when any part of .such area is 
excluded from the municipality, by a notification under clause (b), (cl or (fl of 
section 8, this Act, and all rules and by-laws made, orders, directions and notices 
Issued and powers conferred thereunder shall cease to apply to such area or part, 
as the case may be. 

13. Power to except municipality from provisions of Act unsultcd thereto. — 

(11 If the circumstances of any municipality are such in the opinion of the State 
Government any of the provisions of this Act are unsuited thereto, the State 
Government may, after taking into consideration the views of the Commissioners 
at a meeting, by notification, except the municipality or any part of it from the 
operation of those provisions; and thereupon the said provisions shall no f apply 
to the municipality until applied thereto by notification, 

(2) While such exception as aforesaid remains in force, the State Government 
may make rules consistent with the provisions of this Act in respect 'of matters 
excepted from the operation of the said provisions. 

14. Commissioners to erect and maintain boundary marks.— The Commissioners 
of every municipality already existing and of every municipality newly constituted 
under this Act and of every municipality whose local limits are altered as afore- 
said. shall cause to be erected and set up and thereafter maintain substantial 
boundary-marks defining the limits or the altered limits of the area subiect to 
-their authority, as set out in any notification published under this chapter 

PART III 

Chapter III — -The Municipal Authorities 
The constitution of the municipality. 

IB. Constituting and incorporation of municipality and number of Commis- 
sioners.— fit There shall be established for each municipality a body of Com- 



Src 


!l(xi] FHE GA/ETTE OF INDIA: JULY 119, 1%1/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


103? 


missioiie-rs having authority over tile municipality and consisting of such number 
cif Commissioners, not being more than twenty nor less than six as the State 
Government may specify in the notification constituting the municipality. 

(7 ) Such Commissioners shall be a body corporate by the name of the municipal 
Commo loners of the place by reference to which the municipality is known, 
having jerpetual succession and a common seal, and by that name shall sue and 
be suer . 

IG. Commissioners to be elected and appointment of Commissioners in a newly 
evented municipality. — The Commissioners shall be elected in the manner prescribed. 

Pro - ided that the State Government may appoint all the Commissioners of a 
municipality newly created and constituted under this Act for a period not exceed- 
ing tw< years from Lhe date of the notification under which such municipality is 
createc and constituted; and notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the 
perron: so appointed shall- — 

(a) if they arc not officials, have been resident within the limits of the 

municipality for at least twelve months Immediately preceding the 
appointment; 

(b) be citizens of India; and 

(c) be not subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in section 22: 

Provided further that if in the opinion of the State Govt, it is necessary 

so to da in the circumstances of any case, it may, from time time, by notification 
specifying the circumstances, extend the period of two years referred to In the 
forgoing proviso by such further period or periods not exceeding four years in 
the aggregate heyond the said period of two years as it thinks fit. and may appoint 
new Commissioners in place of any or all of the Commissioners for the time being 
in office. 

16A, Qualifications of Commissioners appointed by State Government. — No 

persons other than an official shall be appointed a Commissioner by the State 
Government unless, irrespective of whether his name is or is not included in the 
electoral roll, he possesses the necessary qualifications of a voter. 

17. Omitted 

10. Special provision in regard to Industrial areas, — (1) Notwithstanding any* 
thing contained in section 1G the State Government, by notification, stating the 
special circumstances, may, in the case of a municipality the development of 
which in its opinion is due to any appreciable extent to and dependent on the 
concentration of any industry or Industries (Including railways and shipping and 
Industries connected therewith) — 

(i) 

(ii) (a) constitute industrial constituencies for the representation of such 

industry or industries and of labour employed therein on such basis 
as may appear to the State Government to be expedient if it considers 
that such industry or Industries and labour should be represented by 
elected Commissioners; and 

(b) provide for the representation of the Inhabitants who are not directly 
concerned with such industry or industries by the formation of elec- 
toral constituencies for such Inhabitants, on such basis as may to the 
State Government to be expedient; 

and the State Government may further provide for election by general electorates 
in any portion of such municipality. 

(2) In any municipality where any industrial constituency is constituted in the 
manner mentioned in sub-clause (a) of clause (ii) of sub-section (l), the election 
of Commissioners from such constituency shall made from persons directly con- 
cerned or connected with such Industry or industries and the labour employed 
therein. 

(2) If any municipality to which the provisions of sub-section (1) are applied 
the electoral roll shall be prepared and the elections held in such manner as the 
State Government may prescribe. 

in Representation of Scheduled Tribes. — (1) The State Government, if it 
considers necessary may, by order published in the Official Gazette, reserve for 
members of the Scheduled Tribes a number of seats among the seats to which, 
the Commissioners of a municipality are to be elected. 



038 


|PARr II 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 2\ I'JOl/SRAVANA 7, 1SS3 


( 2 ) The number of seats so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same 
•proportion to the total number of seats to which the Commissioners axe to be 
elected as the population of the Scheduled Tribes in the municipality bears to 
the total population therein, 

1,3) No member of the Scheduled Tribes for members of which seats are 
icserved under sub-section (1) shall, if eligible for election, be disqualified from 
election to any seat not so reserved, 

(4) In this section, the expression “Scheduled Tribes” has the same meaning 
as in clause (25 ) of article 360 of the Constitution of India, 

20. Power to divide municipality into wards and to fix the number of Commis- 
sioners of each ward. — The State Government may, in case of new municipalities 
of its own motion, and in case of municipalities already In existence at the time 
the notification Is made after consideration of the views of the Commissioners at 
a meeting, by notification, divide any municipality into wards for the purpose of 
the election of Commissioners and determine the number of Commissioners to be 
elected from each such ward. 

Provided that until otherwise directed by the State Government after considera- 
tion of the views of the Commissioners, Agartala Municipality shall remain divided 
into six wards, 

21. The electoral roll, — (1) A Committee consisting of the Chairman and two 
Commissioners to be appointed by the Commissioners at a meeting for this purpose 
shall prepare and publish at the time and in the manner prescribed In electoral 
roll showing the names of persons qualified to vote. 

(2) Every person whose name appears in the final electoral roll published under 
this section shall, so long as such roll remains in force, be entitled to vote at an 
election and no person whose name does not appear In such roll shall vote at an 

< election, 

(3) When a municipality has been divided into wards the electoral roll shall 
be divided into separate lists for each ward. 

(4) The electoral roll as published shall remain in force till the publication 
ol a fresh electoral roll. 

(5; The preliminary and final electoral rolls shall be printed and be made 
available for purchase by any inhabitant of the municipality at a reasonable price 
to be fixed by the Commissioners at a meeting. 

22. General disqualifications for being a Commissioner. — (1) A person shall 
not be eligible for election or appointment as a Commissioner if such person — 

(a) has been adjudged by a competent court to be of unsound mind; or 

(b) is under twenty-one years of age; or 

(c) is an undischarged Insolvent; or 

(d) being a discharged insolvent, has not obtained from the court a certifi- 

cate that his insolvency was caused by misfortune without any mis- 
conduct on his part; or 

(e) Is a municipal officer or servant or holds any office of profit under the 

Commissioners; or 

(f) has, directly or indirectly by himself or by his partner or employer or 

any employee, anv share or interest in any contract or employment 
with, by, or on behalf of, the Commissioners; or 

(g) is in arrears for more than three months In payment of any rate or tax: 

Provided that notwithstanding anything contained in clause (f) no person shall 
be deemed to be disqualified thereunder by reason only of his having a share or 
Interest In — 

(i) any lease, sale or purchase of land or any agreement for the same; or 

(11) any agreement for the loan of money or any security for the payment 
of money only; or 

(iii) any newspaper In which any advertisement relating to the affairs of 

the Commissioners Is Inserted; or 

(iv) any Incorporated or registered company which contracts with or Is 

employed by the Commissioners, 



Sm. 3(1)] I’ME C.AZE L l'E OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1% I /SR AVAN A 7 1883 1039 

(2) If any person is or has been convicted by a criminal court of an offence 
punishable with transportation or imprisonment for a period of more than sfex 
months such person shall not be eligible for election or appointment for five years 
‘from the date of expiration of the sentence . 

Provided that, on application made by a person disqualified under this sub- 
section, the State Government may remove the disqualification by an order made 
in this behalf and shall do so if in the opinion of the State Government the offence 
■does not involve moral turpitude. 

23. Qualifications of Commissioners and voters.- -(1) No person shall be quali- 
fied to be elected a Commissioner of a municipality, who is not entitled to vote 
at an election of Commiss.oners of such municipality. 

(2) A person shall not be entitled to vote at an election of Commissior ers in any 
municipality unless such person, 

(i) has attained the age of twenty-one years, and 
(il) is a citizen of India, and 

(Hi) has, tor a period of not less than twelve months Immediately pieceding 
such election, been resident within the limits of the municipality, or 
has for the said period immediately preceding such election been in 
occupation of a holding and carrying on any trade or profession, 
within the said limits, and either — 

(a) has, during the financial year immediately preceding the year In which 
such election is held, paid, for such financial year, any sum in respect 
of the municipal rates specified in clause (at, (b), (c) or Id) of tub- 
section (1) of section 123 or paid, in respect of municipal fees and 
taxes for such financial year, an aggregate amount not less than the 
sum prescribed by the State Government in this behalf as a minimum 
for the municipality: 

Provided that any person shall be entitled to vote at the first election held 
under this Act who has, during the financial year immediately pre- 
ceding the year in which such election is held, paid, for such financial 
year, any sum in respect of rates as defined in section 13(2) (Gha) (1) 
of Tripura State Municipal Act, 1349 T.E., or 

<b) has, during the said financial year, been assessed to income-tax, or 

(c) being a graduate or licentiate of any University or having passed the 

Matriculation Examination or a corresponding standard of any Uni- 
versity or the School Final Examination held by the Board of Secon- 
dary Education or the Senior Madrasah Examination under the old 
or the reformed scheme, or the Sanskrit Title Examination or being 
a registered medical practitioner or holding a certificate authorising 
him to practice as a pleader or as a mukhtear or as a revenue agent, 
lives in a holding, or part of a holding in respect of which there has 

been paid during the said financial year, any sum as municipal rates 

for such financial year, 

( 3 ) No person shall be entitled to vote at an election of Commissioners in any 
nn.inicipality who has been adjudged by a competent court to be of unsound mind. 

(4) A company, body corporate, firm, or other association of Individuals, as 
such, shall not be entitled to vote in its own name at an election, but may. obtain 
the registration of the name of one of Its members as its representative who will 
be entitled to vote if it possess the qualifications set forth in sub-clause (a) or 
sub-clause (b) of clause (iii) of sub-section ( 2 ). 

(5) (1) Every member of a joint family who is at the time of the preparation 
of the electoral roll and has been for a period of nqt less than twelve months 
immediately preceding such election resident within the limits of the municipality, 
if he is qualified under clauses (i) and (ii) of sub-section ( 2 ), shall be entitled 
to vote if such joint family has during the financial year immediately preceding 
the year in which the election is held paid for such financial year any sum in 
respect of the municipal rates specified In clauses (a), (b), (cl or (d) of sub- 
section (11 of section 123 or has. during the said financial year, been assessed to 
income-tax. 

(iil If a joint family has during the said financial year paid in respect of 
municipal fees and taxes for such financial year an aggregate amount not less 
than the sum prescribed by the State Government in this behalf as a minimum 
for the municipality, every member of such joint family, who is at the time of 



1040 THE GAZETTE OI INDIA :JULV /->Il VVANA 7, 1 ys j |P,\ki II 


the preparation of the electoral roll* and has been for a period of not less than 
twelve months immediately preceding such election resident within the limits or 
the municipality, shall be entitled to vote if he is qualified under clauses (1} and 
Ui) o f sub-section (2) and if his share of the said fees and taxes amounts to 
the minimum prescribed for that municipality: 

Provided that where the total amount paid by a joint family does not equal 
w exceed the amount necessary to entitle every member of the joint f ami ly to 
vote, one of the members of such joint family as its representative shall be entitled 
to vote except in case where any member of such joint family is enrolled to vote 
separately and individually in respect of his share in the joint property, 

24. Election of Commissioners. — (l) The first general election of Commissioners 
of a municipality shall be held under the provisions of this Act at such time as 
the St,ute Government may prescribe. 

(21 The rto'e Government may Issue such orders as It may consider necessary 
to give, effect to the provisions of this Act in regard to the holding of the first 
genera! election referred to In sub-section (1) and in regard to any matter inci- 
dental and ancillary thereto. 

(3) General election of Commissioners shall take place before the expira- 
tion of the term of office of the Commissioners under sub-section (1) or sub- 
section (5) of section 56, as the case may be, and on such days as the District 
Magistrate may fix for each municipality. 

(4) Elections and appointments in respect of casual vacancies shall be held 
and made at such other times as may be prescribed in accordance with the 
provisions of this Act. 

23. Deposit by candidates for election. — (1) On or before the date fixed for 
the nomination of candidates, each candidate for election as a Commissioner shall 
deposit with the Chairman the sum of rupees one hundred in cash and no candi- 
date shall be deemed to be duly nominated unless such deposit has been made: 

Provided that the State Government may f educe the amounts of deposit 
to fifty rupees in the ca'-e of such municipality as it thinks fit. 

(2) If a candidate who has made a deposit under sub-section ill withdraws 

his candidature before he is registered as a candidate or within fiirec days of 
his registration or if his nomination is refused, his deposit shall be returned 
to him. and if a candidate dies before the poll is held, his deposit shall be 
returned to his legal representative, 1 

(3) If the number of votes polled by a candidate other than a candidate 
who is elected does not exceed ten per cent, of the total number of votes polled 
the deposit shall be forfeited to the Municipal Fund, 

(4) The number of votes polled shall be deemed to be the number of ballot 
papers, other than spoilt ballot papers counted. 

25 A. Election of ineligible person to be a Commissioner— -(1) Where a 
person who has been elected to be a Commissioner was not eligible for election 
On account of a disqualification mentioned in section 22, the election of such 
person shall be void upon the State Government making a declaration to that 
effect: 

Provided that such a declaration shall not be made if the question whether 
such person was so disqualified was raised in a petition under section 36 and 
decided on its merits or if such a petition, in which the question is raised, is 
pending disposal. 

(2) No act done by such Commissioner in execution of the office before the 
time when the declaration under sub-section (1) is made shall be invalidated 
by reason of that declaration. 

(3) If an election is declared void under sub-section (1) a date shall be 
fixed bv the District Magistrate and the necessary steps taken for holding a 
fresh election for filling the vacancy, as though it had been a casual vacancy, 

28. On failure of election Commissioners to be appointed by Government. 

If the electorate in any municipality fails within the prescribed time to elect 



Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1%1/SRAVANA 7, 1883 IO 41 


the number of Commissioners to be elected in accordance with the provisions 
of sections 16, or 18 a date shall be fixed by the District Magistrate for another 
election and In case the electorate still fails to elect the number of Commis- 
sioners at such second election the State Government may appoint Commis- 
sioners to complete that number. Any person so appointed shall be deemed 
to be duly elected Commissioner. 

27. Voting to be by ballot. — The manner of holding t lections shall be pres- 
cribed by rules made under this Act: 

Provided that — 

(i) when a poll is taken at any election of a Commissioner the voting 

at such election shall be by ballot to be conducted in the manner 
prescribed, and 

(ii) no person shall be entitled to give more than one vote to any one 

candidate. 

28. Offences in respect of electoral list, — (11 Every person who by claiming 
a qualification which he knows that he does not possess to vote at a municipal 
election or by using false documents or by a false declaration or by any other 
deceitful means procures or attempts to procure the improper entry of the name 
whether Of himself or of any other person in the electoral roll, or the improper 
omission of any name therefrom shall be punished with imprisonment which 
may extend to three months or with fine or with both. 

(2) Every municipal officer or servant or polling officer who wilfully makes 
or procures or attempts to make or procure any improper entry in the electoral 
roll or any improper omission therefrom shall he punished with imprisonment 
which may extend to six months or with fine or with both. 

29. Corrupt practices. — (1) A person shall be deemed to have committed a 
corrupt practice who directly or indirectly by himself or by any other person — 

(1) induces or attempts to induce by fraud or coersion pnv voter to give 
or refrain from giving a vote in favour of any candidate; 

(ii) threatens any candidate or voter, or any person in whom a candi- 
date or voter is interested with injury of any kind with a view 
to influence him in any way in connection with the election; 

(ill) induces or attempts to induce a candidate or vofpr to believe that 
he or any person in whom he is interested will become or will be 
rendered an object of divine displeasure or of spiritual censure with 
a view to influence him in any way in connection with the elec- 
tion; 

(iv) employs, instigates or threatens any form of social boycott of any 

voter or candidate or of any one "in whom such votpr or candidate 
Is interested; 

(v) with a view to inducing any voter to give or to refrain from giving 

a vote in favour of any candidate, offers or gives any food or drink, 
or any money or valuable consideration, or any place or employ- 
ment, or holds out any promise of individual advantage or profit 
to any person, Including a promise of spiritual salvation; 

(vi) gives or procures the giving of a vote in the name of a voter who is 

not the person giving such vote; 

(vii) makes any payment or promise of payment to any person on account 
of the conveyance of any voter to or from any place for the pur- 
pose of recording his vote: 

Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall prevent a conveyance 
being hired by a voter or by several voters at their ioint cori, for 
the purpose of conveying him or them to or from the poll; 

(viii) offers any money or valuable consideration to any person to induce 
him to withdraw from being a candidate at an election or. being 
a candidate accepts any money or valuable consideration so offered; 

(ix) abets the doing of any of the acts specified in clauses til to tviii). 

Explanations. — (a) A “promise of individual advantage or profit to a per- 
son” includes a promise for the benefit of the person himself, or 
of any one in whom he is Interested, but does not Include a promise 



1042 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961 ySRAVANA 7, 1883 


[Part H 


to further or oppose, or to vote for or against any particular muni- 
cipal measure or work: 

(b) no agent, clerk, messenger, or other person who may in accordance 
with rules made by the State Government bo employed for remu- 
neration by a candidate at an election shall by reason of such 
employment alone be deemed to come within the provision of this 
section. 


(2) A corrupt practice shall be deemed to have been committed by a candi- 
date if it has been committed with his knowledge and consent, or by a person 
who is acting under the general or special authority of such candidate with 
reference to the election. 


(3) Every person who is guilty of a corrupt practice at or in connection 
with an election held under the provisions of this Act shall be punished with 
imprisonment which may extend to six months or with fine or with both. 


30. Fraudulent voting and personation. — (1) Every person who applies for 
a ballot paper at an election having already voted once at the same election 
and In the same ward or knowing that his name is not included in the elec- 
toral roll, shall he punished with imprisonment which may extend to six 
months or with fine or with both. 


(2) Every person who applies for a ballot paper in the name of any other 
person, living or dead, or of a fictitious person, shall be punished with the same 
punishment. 

31. Infringement of secrecy of election.— Every polling officer, clerk or other 
person In attendance at the polling station who, except for some purpose autho- 
rised by law, communicates to any person any information showing directly 
or indirectly for which candidate any voter has voted, and every person who 
by any improper means procure any such information, shall be punished with 
Imprisonment which may extend to six months or with fine or with both, 

32. Offences by polling officers.— Every polling officer who permits a person 
to vote knowing that such person is not entitled to vote, or who prevents a 
person from voting knowing that such person is entitled to vote, shall be punish- 
ed with imprisonment which may extend to six months or with fine or with 
both. 

33. Falsifying result of election. — Every person who in the course of elec- 
toral operations falsifies lor attempts to falsify the record of an election by 
removing, destroying, altering or fabricating nomination papers or voting papers 
or by any other act or by any omission shall be punished with imprisonment 
which may extend to one year or with fine or with both. 

34. Procedure before magistrate.— No Magistrate other than a Magistrate of 
the first class shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under sections 
28 to 33 (both inclusive) nor shall any Magistrate take cognizance of such 
offence, — 

(a) except on the complaint of a person whose name is on the electoral 

roll, and 

(b) unless such complaint has been made within fourteen days of the 

date of the declaration of the result of any election to which the 
offence relates, or within seven days of the date on which the 
offence is alleged to have been committed, and 

(a) except In the case of an offence punishable under sections 31 to 33 
(both inclusive) unless the person complaining shall have deposit- 
ed fifty rupees. i 

.. The deposit mentioned in clause (c) shall be refunded to the complainant 
if the complaint is found to be true or if for any other reason the Magistrate 
or the Court of Sessions so directs. 



Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1 % 1 /SRAVANA 7, 1883 IO 43 


An appeal shall He to the Court of Sessions from any conviction and sen- 
tence passed under sections 28 to 33 (both inclusive). 

35. Order of disqualification. — Every person convicted of an offence punish- 
able under sections 28 to 33 (both inclusive) of this Act shall be disqualified 
from voting or from being elected in any election to which this Act applies 
and from holding the office of Chairman, or Commissioner under this Act for 
such period, not being less than three year's nor more than six years from the 
date of his conviction, as the Court may by order determine. 

36. Proceedings to set aside an election. — If the validity of any election of 
a Commissioner is brought in question by any person qualified to vote at the 
election to which such question refers, such person may, at any time within 
ten days after the date of the declaration of the result of the election, file 
a petition before the District Judge of the district within which the election 
has been or should have been held and shall at the same time deposit fifty 
rupees, in court as security for the costs likely to be incurred: 

Provided that the validity of such election shall not be questioned in any 
such petition — 

(a) on the ground that the name of any person qualified to vote has 

been omitted from the electoral roll; or 

(b) on the ground that the name of any person not qualified to vote 

has been inserted in the electoral roll: 

Provided further that if only two candidates contested such election, the 
petitioner may in addition to calling in question the election of the returned 
candidate claim that if the election of the returned candidate is set aside the 
other candidate may be declared duly elected. 

37. Procedure and powers of Judge holding inquiry. — (1) Where a petition 
has been filed under section 36 the District Judge, or any judicial officer sub- 
ordinate to him and not below the rank of a Subordinate Judge (hereinafter 
referred to in this chapter as the Judge) to whom the District Judge may trans- 
fer the petition, may hold such inquiry in accordance with the prescribed pro- 
cedure as he deems necessary. 

(2) For the purposes of the said inquiry the Judge may summon and enforce 
the attendance of witnesses and compel them to give evidence as if he were 
a civil court, and may also direct by whom the whole or any part of the costs 
of such inquiry shall be paid and "such costs shall be recoverable as if they 
had been awarded in a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1900 (Act V of 
1908). 

(3) The Judge may, at any stage of the proceedings, require the petitioner 
to deposit in court a further sum as the costs incurred or likely to be incurred 
by any respondent, or to give security, or further security for the payment of 
the same, and if, within the time fixed by him or within such further time 
as he may allow, such costs are not deposited or such further security is not 
furnished, as the case may be, may dismiss the petition. 

38. Setting aside of election. — (1) If the Judge, after holding an inquiry 
under section 37, is satisfied that — 

(a) a candidate has committed any corrupt practice within lhe meaning 

of section 29 for the purpose of the election, or 

(b) tire election has not been a free election by reason of the general 

employment of bribery or undue influence within the meaning of 
section 123 of the Representation of People Act, 1951, or by any 
reason of any form of general intimidation, including any form of 
social boycott, or 

<c) the result of election has been materially affected by any non-com- 
pliance with this Act or any rule made under this Act or by any 
mistake in the forms required thereby or by any error, irregu- 
larity. or informality on the part of any officer charged with or 
carrying out any duty under this Act or rules made under this 
Act, or 

(d) the result of election has been materially affected by improper accept- 
ance or refusal of candidate’s nomination, 



1044 


[P\nr II 


THE GA/.ETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1261 ySRAVANA 7, 1643 


he shall set aside the election of such candidate, if he has been elected, and 
if the election is set aside for any cause which is the result of acts of a candi- 
date or his agents may declare that candidate to be disqualified for the purpose 
of such fresh election as may be held under section 42. 

(2) If the petitioner has made a claim under the second proviso of section 
36, and the Judge is of opinion that but for the votes obtained by the returned 
candidate as a result of the acts referred to in clause (a) or clause f to) of sub- 
section (1), the other candidate would have obtained a majority of the valid 
votes, he may, after setting aside the election of the returned candidate, declare 
the other candidate to have been duly elected. 

39. Scrutiny of votes and declaration In other cases. — If, in any case to which 
section 38 does not apply, the validity of an election is in dispute between two 
or more candidates, the Judge shall, after a scrutiny and computation of the 
votes recorded in favour of each candidate, declare as many of the candidates 
who are found to have obtained consecutively the largest number of valid votes 
as there are seats to have been duly elected. Every candidate at the election 
to which the dispute relates shall be deemed to be a party to such dispute: 

Provided that for the purpose of such computation no vote shall be reckoned, 
as valid if the Judge finds that any corrupt practice was committed by any 
person, known or unknown, in giving or obtaining it: 

Provided further that if after computation there be an equality of votes 
among two or more candidates and if the number of seals is less than the num- 
ber of such candidates, the Judge shall select one or more among them, as the" 
case may require, by drawing lots. 

39A. Confirmation of election by the Judge. — If the Judge after holding an 
inquiry under section 37 is satisfied that no ground exists for setting aside the 
election in the manner provided in section 38 or modifying it in the manner 
provided in section 39, he shall confirm the election. 

32B. Decision of the Judge to be final on proceedings to set aside election. — 

The decision or order of the Judge under sections 38, 39 or 39A shall be final. 

40. Disqualification of persons from being candidates who commit corrupt 
practices. — If thp Judge sets aside an election under section 38, he may, if he 
thinks fit. declare any person by whom a corrupt practice has In his opinion 
been committed within the meaning of section 29 to be disqualified from being 
a candidate for election in that or any other municipality for a period not 
exceeding six years, and the Judge’s decision shall be final: 

Provided, however, that such person may. by an order of the State Govern- 
ment, be at any time relieved from such disqualification. 

41. Saving of acts done by a Commissioner before his election is set aside. — 

Where a candidate, who has been elected to be a Commissioner, is declared by 
the Judge not to have been duly elected acts done by him in execution of the 
office before the time when the decision is certified to the Commissioners shall 
not be invalidated by reason of that declaration. 

42. Fresh election when election is set aside. — If an election is set aside by 
the Judge, a date shall forthwith be fixed and the necessary steps taken for 
holding a fresh election for filling up the vacancy, as though it has been a casual 
vacancy. 

43. Bar to interference by courts In election matters. — No election of a Com- 
missioner shall be called in question in any court except under the procedure 
provided by this Act, and no order passed in any proceeding under sections 36 to 
40 (both inclusive), shall be called in question in any court and no court shall 
grant an injunction — - 

(i) to postpone an election of a Commissioner, or 

(ii) to prohibit a person, declared to have be:n duly elected under this Act y 

from taking part in the proceedings of a municipality of which he 
has been elected a Commissioner, or 

(iii) to prohibit the Commissioners formally elected or appoint :-d for a 

municipality from entering upon their duties. 



Sfc. 3p)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, I961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 1045 


44. Rules, — For the purpose of election of Commissioners the State Govern- 
ment may, with respect to municipalities generally or to any municipality or class 
of municipalities, make such rules, as it maj think fit, to regulate and determine — 

(a) the alteration of — 

(i) the boundaries of, and 

(ii) the number of Commissioners apportioned to, any ward of a 

municipality; 

(b) the 'preparation, publication and revision of the electoral roll, the 

registration of voters and the nomination and registration of candi- 
dates; 

(c) with reference to sub-clause (a) of clause (iii) of sub-section (2) and 

clause (ii) of sub-section (51 of section 23, the minimum sums 

entitling a person to vote: 

(e) the dates, time and manner of holding elections, including the manner 

of giving and recording votes; t 

(f) the procedure to be followed by a Judge in inquiring into election 

petitions; 

(g) the employment of agents, clerks, messengers or other persons by a 

candidate for the purpose of an election; and 

(h) any other matter relating to elections or election petitions in respect of 

which this Act makes no provision or in the opinion of the State 

Government insufficient provision. 

45. Election of Chairman. — (1) The Commissioners of every municipality shall, 
at a meeting to be held within thirty days from the date of the publication in the 
Official Gazette of the result of a general election of Commissioners in the 
municipalities, or where Commissioners are appointed within thirty days from 
the date of publication of the names of the persons appointed, elect by name in 
the prescribed manner one of their number to be Chairman: 

Provided that the State Government may extend the period of thirty days by 
such period as it thinks lit. 

(2) In the case of a vacancy in the office of Chairman other than a vacancy 
occurring under the provisions of section 59 the Commissioners shall at a meeting 
to be held within thirty days from the date of the occurrence of the vacancy 
elect by name in the prescribed manner one of their number to fill the vacancy. 

(3) If the election of a Commissioner who is also elected Chairman is set aside 
by the Judge under section 38, the Chairman shall be deemed to have vacated his 
office from the date of receipt by the Commissioners of such order. 

(4) The meeting to be held under sub-section (I) shall be convened by the 
Magistrate. Seven clear days’ notice shall be given of the meeting. 

(6) The meeting to be held under sub-section (2) shall be convened by the 
Vice-Chairman and if notices of the meeting are not issued within ten days from 
the date referred to in sub-section (2) may be convened by requisition of any 
three of the Commissioners. Seven clear days’ notice shall be given of the 
meeting, 

48. Appointment of Chairman on failure to elect. — (1) If within the period 
fixed by sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) or the period extended under the 
proviso to sub-section (1) of section 45 the Commissioners fail to elect a Chairman 
the State Government shall appoint by name one of the Commissioners to be 
Chairman. 

(2) The Commissioner so appointed shall ordinarily be a non- official except 
when the State Government is of opinion that it is necessary to appoint a Govern- 
ment official. 

47. Repealed 

48. Election of Vice-Chairman. — The Commissioners at a meeting shall elect by 
name in the prescribed manner one of their own number to be Vice-Chairman. 

49. Dispute as to elections of Chairman or Vice-Chairman. — If any dispute 
•rises as to the election of a Chairman or Vice-Chairman the matter shall be 



1046 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, I9GI/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


[Part II 


referred to the State Government, whose decision shall be final and shall not be 
questioned in any court. 

60. Publication of elections and of nominations. — The names of all persons 
elected or appointed as Chairman, Vice-Chairman or Commissioners shall be 
published in the Official Gazette. 

51. Powers of Chairman. — (1) Save as hereinafter otherwise provided, the 
Chairman shall for the transaction of the business connected with this Act, or for 
the purpose of making any order authorised thereby, exercise all the powers 
vested by this Act in the Commissioners and, where by any other law power is 
vested in the Commissioners for any purpose, the Chairman may transact any 
business or make any order authorised hy that law in the exercise of that power, 
unless it is otherwise expressly provided in that law: 

Provided that the Chairman shall not act in opposition to, or in contravention 
of, any order of the Commissioners at a meeting or exercise any power which is 
directed tg be exercised by the Commissioners at a meeting. 

(2) In any municipality where an Executive Officer is appointed under section 
66 or sub-section (1) or sub-section (4) cf section 67, the Commissioners at a 
meeting may, notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), delegate to 
him all or any of the powers of the Commissioners and shall, if required by the 
State Government to do so, delegate to him such powers of the Commissioners 
as the State Government may direct, and upon such delegation the Commissioners 
shall cease to exercise the powers so delegated to the Executive Officer. 

52. Delegation of duties or powers to Vice-Chairman or ce-rtaln officers. — The 

Commissi oneis at a meeting specially convened for the purpose or the Chairman 
may delegate to the Vice-Chairman or tn the holder of any of the other offices 
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 73, all or any of the duties or powers of 
a Chairman as defined in this Act, and may at any time in the like manner with- 
draw or modify the same: 

Provided that in the case of a Chairman appointed under section 46 the dele- 
gation of duties or powers to the Vice-Chairman by the Commissioners shall be 
subject to the approval of the State Government: 

Provided also that nothing done by the Vice-Chairman which might have been 
done under the authority of a delegation from the Chairman shall be invalid tor 
want of or defect in such delegation if it be done with the express or implied 
consent of the Chairman and subsequently approved by the Commissioners at a 
meeting. 

63. Delegation of powers by the Executive Officer.— The Executive Officer may 
with the approval of the Commissioners at a meeting delegate all or any of his 
powers to the holder of any office under the Commissioners. 

54. Duties of Vice-Chairman. — The Vice-Chairman — 

(a) shall, during a vacancy in the office of Chairman or the incapacity or 

temporary absence of the Chairman, perform any duty and, when 
occasion arises, exercise any power of the Chairman, 

(b) shall, at any time, perform any duty and exercise, when occasion arises, 

any power delegated to him under section 62. 

55. Grant of leave to Chairman and Vice-Chairman. — (1) The Commissioners 
at a meeting may grant leave of absence to their Chairman or Vice-Chairman for 
any period not exceeding three months in any one year. 

(2) If the Chairman or Vice-Chairman is absent from his duties during any one 
year tor more than the three months allowable by way of leave under this section, 
he shall be declared by the State Government to have vacated his office unless 
such absence is sanctioned by the State Government. 

56. Tenure of office of Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Commissioners. — (1) 

Except as otherwise provided in this Act — 

(a) a Commissioner, shall hold office for four years commencing from the 
date of the first meeting of the newly-formed body of Commissioners 
after a general election of Commissioners in the municipality at which 
a quorum is present; 



Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDU : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 188S 1047 


fb) an elected Chairman and a Vice-Chairman shall, subject to the pro- 
visions of section 69, hold office for four years from the date of his 
election and an appointed Chairman shall subject to the provisions 
of section 59 hold office for such period not exceeding four years 
as the Slate Government may in each case determine. 

(2) The term of four years referred to in sub-section (1) shall be held to 
include any period which may elapse between the expiry of the said four years 
and the date of the first meeting of the newly-formed body of Commissioners 
at which a quorum is present. 

(3) A person ceasing to be a Commissioner or to be Chairman or Vice-Chair- 
man by reason of the expiry of his term of office shall, if otherwise qualified, be 
eligible for re-flection or re-appointment for the purpose of section 2e. 

(4) If the State Gorernment ir, the exercise of its powers under clause (i) 

of sub-section (1) of section 6 increases the number of Commissioners of any 
municipality at any time beiore the expiry of the term of four years, provided by 
clause (a) of sub-section (1), the term of office < " “■ Commissioners thus added 

shall not extend beyond the said term four yeais as above defined. 

(5) The State Government may extend the term < f office of the Commissioners 
of a municipality for any period or periods nor exceeding two years in aggregate 
beyond the term of four years, provided by clause (a) of sub-section (1), If in 
special circumstances (to be specified in the notification) it so thinks fit. 

57. Oath of allegiance to be taken by Commissioners— (1) Notwithstanding 
anything contained in the Indian Oaths Act. 1873 (X of 1873), every person who 
is elected or appointed to be a Comnnssionei shall before. taking his seat make 
and subscribe, in the presence oi the other Commissioners (or such number of 
them as would be sufficient to form a quorum at a meeting) assembled for a 
meeting of which notice has been given, an oath or affirmation of his allegiance 
to the Constitution of India in the following form, namely: — 

*‘I, A. B,, having been electod/appomted a Commissioner of this munici- 
pality, do sweai in the name of God (or solemnly affirm) that I will 
bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law 
established and that I will faithfully discharge the duties upon which 
I am about to enter." 

(2) Any person who having been elected or appointed a Commissioner fails 
to make, within three months of the date on which his term of office commences, 
the oath or affirmation laid down in sub-section (1) shall cease to hold his office 
and his seat shall be deemed to have become vacant. 

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Oaths Act, 1873, every 
elected nr appointed Commissioner of a n unicipality holding office at the com- 
mencement of this Act shall, at the first meeting of the Commissioners which he 
attends after the commencement of this Act, make an oath or affirmation of his 
allegiance to the Government in tlu, following form, namely: — 

"I, A. B., a Commissioner of this municipality, do solemnly swear (or affirm) 
that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to the Constitution of 
India as by law established and that I will faithfully discharge the 
duties of a Commissioner of this municipality.” 

(4) Any elected or appointed Commissioner holding office at the commence- 
ment of this Act who fans to make, within three months from the commencement 
of this Act, the oath or affirmation laid down in sub-section (3) shall cease +0 
hold his office and his seat shall be deemed to have become vacant. 

•■*****• 

(7) Where ffil the Commissioners of a municipality have failed to make the 
oath or affirmation under this section or where the ’ number of Commissioners 
who have made the oath or affirmation is Insufficient to allow of a quorum being 
formed under section 82 and the State Government is not satisfied that the failure 
of the Commissioners who have failed to make the oath or affirmation was due 
to Inadvertence or misapprehension, the State Government may. by an order 
published in the Official Gazette, supersede the Commissioners of the municipality 
for a period to be specified in the order and thereupon the consequences specified 
in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (1) of section 554 shall ensue. Thereafter 
the State Government shall, as soon as may be convenient, reconstitute the Com- 
missioners of the municipality by a fresh general election and the persons who 
failed to make the oath er affirmation shall not be deemed disqualified for election 
or appointment under section 20 . 



1048 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, l'JGl/SR H’ANA 7, 1883 [Part II 

58. Filling of vacancies ami tenure of office of person filling vacancy. — (1) If 

the election of any Commissioner is set aside under the provisions of section 38 and 
the Judge does not declare that pLrson to be disqualified for the purpose of such 
fieffi election as may he held under section 42, the said person shall be eligible 
for re-eVcticn in the vacancy so caused. 

(2) If the election of any Commissioner is set aside under the provisions of 
sect'on 38 and the Judge deuares iliat pot son to be disqualified for the purpose of 
such iitsh election as may be held undci section 42, or if any Commissioner, 
Chairman or Vice-Chairman 19 "by reason of his death, resignation or removal or 
by reason of his seat becoming vacant under the provisions of section 55 or section 
57 unable to complete his fad icm of office, or if a Chairman or Vice-Chairman 
is granted leave under section 55 the vacancy so caused shall be filled by Ihe 
appointment 01 election, as the case may be, of another person. 

(3) The person elected or appointed to a vacancy referred to in sub-section (1) 
or sub-section (2) shall fill such vacancy for the unexpired remainder of the term 
for which such Commissioner, Chairman or Vice-Chairman would otherwise have 
continued m office or during his absence on leave, as the case may be. 

59 Vacation of office by Chairman and Vice-Chairman after general election. — 

il) Notwithstanding anythu g contained in section 56, a Chairman and a Vice- 
Chanman shall be deemed to have vacated office as soon as the newly-foimed 
body of Commissioners has assembled at the meeting held under the provisions of 
sub-section (1) of section 45. 

(2) The Commissioners assembled shall thereupon appoint one of their number 
to preside at the meeting and shall iroceed to elect a Chairman and a Vice- 
Chairman: 

Provided that, if the Commissioners at the meeting fail to elect a Chairman, the 
Chairman of the outgoing oody of Commissioners shall thereafter resume 
office and continue to ho'd the ^ime until the new Chairman Is elected or 
appointed. 

60. Resignation of Chairman, Vice-Chairman or Commissioner.— (1) An 

appointed Chairman may resign by notifying in writing his intention to do so to 
the State Government, and on such resignation being accepted shall be deemed to 
have vacated his office. 

(2) An elected Chairman may resign by laying notice in writing of his 
intention to do so before the Commissioners at a meeting. 

(3) A Vice-Chairman or a Commissioner may resign by notifying his intention 
to do so to the Chairman, who shall forthwith lay such notice before the Com- 
missioners at a meeting. 

(4) On a resignation under sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) being accepted 
by the Commissioners at a meeting, the Chairman, Vice-Chairman or Com- 
missioner, as the case may be, shall be deemed to have vacated his office. 

01. Removal of Chairman and Vice-Chairman. — (1) The State Government 

may at any time remove a Chairman appointed by it. 

(2) An elected Chairman or Vice-Chairman may at any time be removed from 
his office by a resolution of the Commissioners carried in this behalf by the votes 
of not less than two-thirds of the total number of Commissioners holding office 
for the time being, at a meeting specially convened for the purpose and according 
to the procedure laid down in sub-section (3): 

Provided that if the number of Commissioners who have given their votes in 
favour of such resolution is less than two-thirds of the total number of Com- 
missioners holding office for the time being but more than half the number of 
such Commissioners, the State Government may, by order, remove the Chairman 
or the Vice-Chairman, as the case may be, from his office. 

(3) Written notice of the intention to move the resolution signed by not less 
than one-third of the total number of Commissioners holding office for the time 
being together with a copy of the resolution shall be delivered to the District 
Magistrate and the District Magistrate shall, notwithstanding anything contained 
in section 78, convene a special meeting of the Commissioners for the considera- 
tion of the resolution, to be held at the municipal office on a date not later than 
thirty days from the date on which the notice was delivered to him, and shall give 
not less than fifteen clear days’ notice of the meeling to the Commissioners. 



Sec. 3(i)] 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA 

(4) Notwithstanding aT J y ^ in | l^cltss^ Magistrate in 

at such special meeting and no other person shall preside 

time being no notice of any subsequent resolution for the removal of h 
Chairman or Vice-Chairman shall be given until after the expny 
from the date of the meeting referred to in sub-section (A). 

(6) If within fifteen days of the receipt of the notice of the intention to move 
the resolution) 'the District Magistrate &ls to give ?°»™Lch special 

meeting as aforesaid, any three of the Commissioners who had .signed such _notlce 
may, within seVen days from the expiry of. the period of ft^en'iaysheretobetore 
referred in this sub-section, call such special meeting giving at least seven deal 
days’ notice together with a copv of the resolution to the Commissioners and not- 
withstanding anything contained in section 79. the Commissioners shall elect on 
of their number to preside at such special meeting. 


02, Removal of Commissioners. — (11 The State Government may remove an 
elected Commissioner on the ground of misconduct in the discharge of his duties 
if the removal is recommended by a resolution of the Commissioners passed at 
a special meeting called for the purpose and supported by the votes of not less 
than two-thirds of the whole number of Commissioners of the municipality. 


(2) Tha State Government may remove any Commissioner — 

(a) if he refuses to act or becomes Incapable of acting, or is declared 

insolvent, or if, after his election as Commissioner, he Is convicted of 
an offence which in the opinion of the State Government involves 
moral turpitude; or 

(b) if he Has been declared by the State Government bv notification issued 

after due inquiry to have violated his oath of allegiance; or 

(c) if he absents himself from meetings of the Commissioners for three 

months continuously without having obtained permission from the 
Commissioners at a meeting; or 

(d) if he, being a legal practitioner without the consent of the Chairman, 

acts or appears in any suit or other proceeding, on behalf of any other 
person, against the Commissioners, or acts or appears on behalf of 
any other person in any criminal proceeding instituted by or on 
behalf of the Commissioners; or 

(e) if he knowingly acquires or continues to have directly or indirectly by 

himself or his partner, any share or interest in any contract or 
employment with, by or on behalf of the Commissioners or holds 
any office of profit under the Commissioners. If he contravenes this 
clause he sh^ll also be liable to be punished as provided in section 500; 
or 

(f) if he is in arrears for more than six months in payment of rates and 

taxes and the State Government after due inquiry is of opinion that 
the Commissioner has no reasonable cause for default. 


Explanation to clause (b) . — A person who by constitutional means endeavours 
to make changes in the constitution shall not be deemed to have thereby violated 
his oath of allegiance. 

,, (§) Before removing a Commissioner under sub-section (l)'or sub-section (2) 
being hear3° VeTnment Sha11 allow Commissioner concerned an opportunity of 

(4) All acts and proceedings of any Commissioner removed under sub-section 
° r sub-section (2) shall, if done previously to such removal, be valid and 
effectual to all mtchts and purposes. 

(51 Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (e) of sub-section (2) no 
person shall be deemed to be disqualified thereunder by reason only— K 

(a) of his having a share or interest in — 

(i) a contract entered into between the Commissioners and any incorno- 

rated or registered company of which such Commissioner is a 
member or shareholder; or a 

(ii) any lease, or purchase of land, or 


any agreement for the same; or 



1050 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 21, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1383 


[Part II 


(iif) any agreement for the loan of money, or any security for the pay- 
ment of money only; or 

(iv) any newspapers in which any advertisement relating to the affairs of 
the municipality is inserted; 

(b) of his being professionally engaged on behalf of the Commissioners as 
a legal .practitioner and receiving a fee for services rendered In his 
professional capacity; 

Provided that no such Commissioner shall act as a Commissioner or member 
of a committee, or take part in any proceedings relating to any matter in which 
he has a share or interest as described in clause (a) of this sub-section, 

63. Effect of removal of a Commissioner. — (1) A Commissioner who has been 
removed from his office under sub-section (1) or under clause (a) or clause (b) 
of sub-section (2J of section 62 shall not be eligible for election or re-election as 
a Commissioner, without the consent of the State Government. 

(2) A Commissioner who has been removed from his office in any municipality 
under clauses (c), (d), (e) or (f) of sub-section (2) of section 62 shall not be 
elected or re-elected a Commissioner of that municipality within the period of 
three years from the date of his removal 

(3) A Chairman or a Vice-Chairman in respect of whom a final order has 
been made under section 82 removing him from the municipality as Commissioner, 
shall thereupon cease to be Chairman or Vice-Chairman, as the case may be. 

64. Travelling expenses of Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Commissioner. — The 

Commissioners at a meeting may, from time to time, in accordance with rules 
framed by the State Government, pay out of the Municipal Fund to the Chair- 
man or Vice-Chairman, or a Commissioner such travelling expenses as may be 
Incurred in performing journeys for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

65. Power of State Government to make rules. — The State Government may 
make rules— 

(a) prescribing the manner of holding the election of the Chairman and 

Vice-Chairman, and 

(b) regulating the payment of travelling expenses to the Chairman. Vice- 

Chairman or a Commissioner. 

Establishment 

66. Appointment of subordinate officers. — (1) The Commissioners at a meeting 
may, subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereundo” from 
time to time, determine what officers and what servants of the Commissioners 
are necessary for the municipality and may fix the salaries and allowanc es to be 
paid and granted to such officers and servants. 

(2) Subject to the scale of establishment approved by the Commissioners 
under sub-section (1), the Chairman shall have power to appoint such nersons as 
he may think fit, and from time to time to remove such persons and appumt others 
in their place: 

Provided as follows: 

(i) a person shall not be appointed to an office carrying a monthly salary 

of more than fifty rupees or a salary rising by periodical increments 
to more than fifty rupees without the sanction of the Commissioners 
at a meeting, and an officer or servant whose post carries a monthly 
salary of more than twenty rupees shall not be dismissed without 
such sanction; 

(ii) no appointment carrying a monthly salary of more than two hundred 

rupees or a salary rising by periodical increments to more than two 
hundred rupees shall be created without the sanction of the State 
Government, and every nomination to, and dismissal from, any such 
app'ointment shall be subject to confirmation by the State Govern- 
ment; 

(iii) no person holding an office carrying a monthly salary of one hundred 

rupees or more shall be dismissed unless such dismissal is sanctioned 
by tTresolution of the Commissioners passed at a special meeting called 
for the purpose and, except with the consent of the State Govern- 
ment unless such resolution has been supported by the votes of not 



Sec, S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


1051 


less than two-thirds of the total number of Commissioners holding 
office for the time being. 

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), the creation of 
and nomination to or suspension, removal or dismissal from, the post of Executive 
Officer shall, Irrespective of the salary assigned to the post, be subject to con- 
firmation by the State Government. 


67. Appointment of Executive Officer, Secretary etc , on requisition by 
Government — (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 66, the State 
Government may, after consulting the Commissioners, if it thinks necessaiy so to 
do in the public interest, require the Commissioners of any municipality to appoint 
at a meeting, within such time as may be specified by the State Government, all 
or any of the following officers: — 


(a) an Executive Officer, 

(b) a Secretary, 

(c) an Engineer, 

(d) a Health Officer, and 

(e) one or more Sanitary Inspectors 


(2) An officer appointed under sub-section (1) shall be of such class or possess 
such qualifications as may be prescribed and shall bo paid out of the Municipal 
Fund such salary and allowances, if any, as the Commissioners at a meeting 
subject to the approval of the State Government, may fix. 


(3) Except as is provided in sub-section (3) of section 73, no Executive Officer 
Secretary, Engineer, Health. Officer or Sanitary Inspectoi* shall be lemoved from 
office by the Commissioners except on resolution earned at a special meeting 
caned foi the purpose and supported bv the votes of not less than two-thirds of 
the total number of Commissioners holding office for the time being 

. W) Where under sub section (1) the State Government requires the Com- 
missioners of any municipality to appoint any of the officers referred to in that 
sub-section, the State Government may, if the Commissioners make default in 
making the appointment within the specified time or such further time as mav be 
allowed by the State Government make the appointment and fix the terms and 
conditions of service, including the salary and allowances of the officer as It 
Fund 5 pr0per ’ and such salary and allowances shall be paid out of the Municipal 


(5) Every nomination to and suspension, 
appointment made under this section shall be 
State Government. 


removal or dismissal fiom any 
subject to confirmation by the 


„ Appointment etc , of Executive Officer by the State Government —ill 
Notwithstanding anything contained m section 66 or section 67, the State Govern- 
ment, if in its opinion the affairs of a municipality are not properly managed and 
if it considers It desirable m the public interest to do so, may, bv notification 
declare that the municipality shall have an Executive Officer for such period as 
may be specified in the notification: p oa 33 


Provided that the State Government 
extend such period from time to time 


may, if it thinks fit, by notification. 


, < 2 2 An Executive Officer referred to in sub section (1) shall be appointed bv 
the State Government and shall be paid out of the Municipal Fund such salarv 
and allowances as may from time to time be fixed by the State Government 

(3) The Executive Officci of a municipality, appointed under this section shall 
exeicise such powers of the Commissioners whether at a meeting or otherwise as 
may be conferred on him bv notification by the State Government and on such 
notification such powers shall cease to be exercisable by the Commissioners 

(4) The State Government may at any time suspend, remove, dismiss or other- 
wise punish an Executive Officer appointed under this section. 


68 Power of the Executive Officer.— <1) The Executive Officer shall be the 
principal executive officer of the Commissioners and all other officois and servants 
of the Commissioners shall be subordinate to him He shall have the same right 
of being present at a meeting of the Commissioners 01 of any standing or special 



1052 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, I9H 'SR V VANIA 7, 18H3 


| Part II 


committee, and of taking part in the discussions thereat as if he were a Com- 
missioner or a member of such committee and with the consent of the Chairman 
or the president of the meeting, as the case may be, ho may at any time make a 
statement or explanation of facts, but he shall not vote upon, or make, any pro- 
position at such meeting, 

(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-scction (2) of section 51 and sub-section 
( 3 > of section 67A Executive Officer shall act m respect of all other matters under 
the direction of the Chairman through whom he shall be responsible to the Com- 
missioners. 

69. Power to frame rules for pensions and gratuities or for the creation of a 
provident or annuity fund.— ( 1 ) The Commissioners, at a meeting specially con- 
vened for the purpose, by a resolution in favour of which not less than two-thirds 
of the Commissioners present and voting at such meeting shall have voted, may, 
subject to the approval of the State Government, make rules — - 

(a) for the granting of pensions, gratuities and bonuses out of the Munici- 

pal Fund; 

(b) for the granting of compassionate allowances and gratuities to members 

of the families of deceased municipal officers and servants; and 

(c) for the creation and management of a provident or annuity fund (which 

may be combined with a system of bonuses based on length of 
service), for compelling contributions to such provident or annuity 
fund on the part of their officers and servants, and for supplementing 
such contributions out of the Municipal Fund. 

(2) The Commissioners at a meeting may, from time to time, in accordance 
with such rules — 

(i) grant pensions or bonuses or both or grant allowances or annuities out 

of such provident or annuity fund to any of their officers or servants, 
as "they may see fit; 

(ii) grant advances out of guch provident fund to any of their officers or 

servants, as they may see fit; 

(hi) grant a gratuity based on the length of service of the deceased to any 
member of the family of any of their officers or servants who die 
while in the service of the Commissioners: 

(iv) by a resolution in favour of which not less than two-thirds of the Com- 
missioners present at such meeting have voted, — 

(a) grant a special pension or gratuity or both to any member of the 

family of any of their officers or servants who has died from disease 
or injury contracted in the discharge of a duty which was attended 
with extraordinary bodily risk, and 

(b) in addition to other benefits grant a bonus to any officer or servant 

in recognition of work or service of exceptional merit. 

(3) For the purposes of this chapter the family of a municipal officer or 
servant shall be deemed to include his wife, his children, and his father, mother, 
brother or sister dependent upon him for support. 

70. Contributions In the case of servants of the Government employed by the 

Commissioners. — (I) The Commissioners shall contribute to the pension, gratuities 
and allowances of any servant whose services are lent or transferred by any 
Government to the Commissioners 

(2) Such contribution shall be to the extent prescribed by the conditions of 
service under which the officer is serving the Government 

71. Notice to be given by mehters of intention to withdraw from service. (1) 

A mehter or other servant of the Commissioners employed to remove or d^al with 
sewage, offensive matter or rubbish shall not withdraw from his duties without 
the permission of the Commissioners, unless he has given notice in writing not 
less than one month previously of his intention so to withdraw. 

(2) Any mehter or other such person who withdraws from his duties without 
giving such notice as aforesaid shall be liable to rigorous imprisonment for a 
period which may extend to one month or to fine not exceeding fifty rupees or 
both and shall forfeit all salary which may be due to him 



Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


1053 


(3) The State Government may direct that on and from a specified future date 
the provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) shall apply also to any other specified 
class of servants of the Commissioners whose functions intimately concern the 
public health or safety. 

72. Prohibition of having share or Interest in contract or employment with 
Commissioners. — (1) No person shall be eligible for employment as a municipal 
officer or servant if he has, directly or indirectly by himself or his partner or 
employer or employee, any share or interest in any contract or employment with, 
by, or on behalf of the municipality, 

(2) If any municipal officer or servant acquires, directly or indirectly as afore- 
said, any such share or interest otherwise than as such officer or servant he shall 
cease to be a municipal officer or servant and his office shall become vacant from 
the date on which he is removed from office by the authority which appointed 
him; and he shall also be liable to be punished as provided in section 500. 

(3) Nothing in sub-sections (1) and (2) shall applv to any such share or interest 
as under sub-section (5) of section 62 it is permissible for a Commissioner to have 
without being thereby diso_ualified to be a Commissioner, 

73. Indebtedness.— (1) A person shall not be eligible for the office of Executive 
Officer, Secretary, Engineer, Health Officer, Superintendent of Waterworks, Sani- 
tary Inspector, Assessor, Tax-Collector, Accountant or Overseer of a municipality 
if he is seriously in debt. 

(2) If any question arises as to whether any person is seriously in debt within 
the meaning of sub-section (1), it shall be decided — • 

(a) in the case of a candidate for any office mentioned in sub-section 

appointment to which is subject to the approval of the Stat ■ Govern- 
ment — by the State Government, and 

(b) in the case of a candidate for any other office mentioned in sub-seclion 

(1) — by the authority whieh makes appointment to such office. 

(3) If any person holding any of the offices mentioned in sub-section (1) is 
found, by the authorities respectively referred to in sub-section (2), to be 
seriously in d.bt. he may be removed from his office by the authority which 
appointed him. 

74. Relationship of candidates for employment in the municipality. — Every 
person applying for employment in a municipality shall, if he is related by a blood 
relationship to, or is closely connected by marriage with, the Chairman, Vice- 
Chairman or any Commissioner, or any of the officers mentioned in sub-section 
(1) of section 73, notify in writing the fact and the nature of such relationship or 
connection to the authority making the appointm-mt before the appointment is 
made ; and in default thereof the appointment, if made, shall be deemed to be 
invalid. 

75. Power to Commissioners to make rules.— The Commissioners at a m:etlng 
may, subject to the sanction of the State Government, make rules as to — • 

(i) the duties, appointment, leave, fining, suspension and removal of munici- 

pal officers and servants; 

(ii) the nature and amount of security to be furnished by different classes 

of municipal officers or servants for the proper discharge o ' their 
duties. 

76. Power to State Government to make rules.— The State Government may 
make rules — 

(all prescribing the qualifications of candidates for appointment as Executive 
Officers and the terms and conditions of service of such officers; 

(a) prescribing tlm qualifications of candidates for employment bv the 

Commissioners as Engineers, Health Officers, Superintendents of 
Waterworks, Sanitary Inspectors, Assessors, Accountants, Overseers, 
female medical practitioners, nurs-s, health visitors, midwives and 
veterinary practitioners; 

(b) prescribing the proportion of the pay and allowances of servants of 

the Government employed by the Commissioners which shall b - borne 
by the Cofnmissioncrs and providing for the control of such officers' 

and 



i°54 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29. 1961 /SR AVAN 1. 7, 1883 


[Part II 


(c) prescribing the division of Health Officers and Sanitary Inspectors into 
classes or grades according to their qualifications: 

Provided that where the services of any. servant of the Government are lent 
or transferred by any Government other than the State Government, the rules 
to be made under clause (b) of this section shall bo made by that Government. 

Conduct of Business 

77. Ordinary meetings.— (1) The Commissioners shall meet for the transaction 
of business at their office, at least once in every month, and as often as a meeting 
shall be called by the Chairman, or, in his absence, by the Vice-Chairman. 

(2) If there shall be no business to be laid before the Commissioners at any 
monthly meeting, the Chairman shall, instead of calling the meeting, give notice 
of the fact to each Commissioner three days before the date which is appointed 
for the monthly meeting. 

78. Meeting on requisition by Commissioners. — -(1) The Chairman, or, in his 
absence, the Vice-Chairman, shall call a special meeting of the Commissioners on 
a requisition signed by not less than one-third of the whole number of Com- 
missioners of the municipality. 

(21 If the Chairman or Vice-Chairman fails to give notice of a special meeting 
to be held within fifteen days after such requisition has been made, the meeting 
may be called on seven days’ notice by any three of the Commissioners of the 
municipality. 

79. Person to preside at meetings, — The Chairman, or, in his absence, the Vice- 
Chairman, shall preside at every meeting, and, in the absence of both the Chair- 
man and Vice-Chairman, the Commissioners shall choose some one of their 
number to, preside. 

80. Decision of questions and casting vote. — (1) All questions which may come 
before the Commissioners at a meeting shall be decided by a majority of votes, 
unless otherwise provided in this Act. 

(2) In case of equality of votes, the person presiding shall have a second or 
casting vote. 

81. Commissioners disqualified from voting on certain questions. — No Com- 
missioner or member of a standing or other committee shall vote on any matter 
affecting his own pecuniary interest or on any question which regards exclusively 
the assessment of himself or the valuation of any property in respect of which 
he is in any way directly Interested or of any property of or for which he is 
manager or agent or his liability to any tax, rate, toll or fee. 

82. Quorum and adjournment for want thereof. — Cl) No business shall be, 
transacted at any meeting of the Commissioners unless such meeting has been 
called by the Chairman or Vice-Chairman, or, under section 45 or section 78, by 
persons signing a requisition, or under section 45 by the Magistrate, or under 
section 61, nor except for the election of a person to preside for the purposes of 
sub-section (3) unless a quorum shall be present. 

(2) A quorum shall be, In any municipality in which the Commissioners are 
more than fifteen, five; 

in any other municipality, » number being not Jess than one-third of the total 
number of Commissioners holding office for the time being: 

Provided that in cases where the total number of Commissioners holding office 
fer the time being is not evenly divisible by three, the one-third shall be ascer- 
tained by taking the number next above such total number which is evenly divisi- 
ble by three, as the number to be divided. 

(3) If, at the time appointed for a meeting, or within half an hour thereafter, 
a quorum is not present, the meeting shall stand adjourned to some future day 
to be appointed by the Chairman or in his absence the Vice-Chairman and three 
days, notice of such adjourned meeting shall be given. The members present at 
such adjourned meeting shall form a quorum, whatever their number may be, 

83. Notice of list of business and of meetings. — A list of the business to be 
transacted at a meeting and, in the case of a meeting called on a requisition, the 



Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1885 1055 


terms 0 f the requisition shall be sent to every Commissioner at least three days 
before the date appointed for the meeting, and no business of which such notice 
has not been given shall be brought forward at a meeting. 

84. Minutes of proceedings.— (1) Minutes of the proceedings of all meetings of 
the Commissioners in which shall be recorded inter alia the names of all Com- 
missioners present shall be entered in a hook to be kept for the purpose, and 
shall be signed by the person presiding over the meeting, and such book shall 
be open to the inspection of the tax-payers. 

(la) Whenever at any meeting of the Commissioners a motion or resolution is 
passed authorising any expenditure of authprising any action leading to or 
involving expenditure, the names of the Commissioners who vote for such motion 
or resolution shall be recorded in the minutes. 

(2) A copy of the minutes of the proceedings of all meetings of the Com- 
missioners shall within seven days be forwarded by the Chairman to the District 
Magistrate, 

(31 The minutes shall be laid before the next meeting of the Commissioners 
for confirmation and shall be also signed at such meeting by the person presiding 
thereat, 

85. Inspection of books by Commissioners. — A Commissioner shall have the 
right to inspect all books and records of the municipality at such times as the 
Commissioners at a meeting may fix for this purpose: 

Provided that the Chairman may, for reasons to be recorded by him in writing, 
direct that any particular book or record shall not be inspected without the 
direction of the Commissioners at a meeting. 

Standing Committees 

86. Formation of standing committees. — (11 The Commissioners at a meeting 
may, from time to time, appoint standing committees and by specific resolution 
delegate to, or withdraw from, such committees any of their functions, powers 
and duties and may also from time to time, by like resolution, refer to them for 
inquiry and report, or for opinion such subjects relating to the powers or duties 
of the Commissioners, as the Commissioners at a meeting may think fit. 

(2) Each standing committee shall consist of Commissioners who shall not 
be less than two-thirds of the whole number of the members of the committee 
and of such other persons not exceeding one-third in number as the Commissioners 
at a meeting may, from time to time, by a specific resolution, determine and 
elect for this purpose. 

(31 Each such committee shall perform the duties assigned to it by this Act 
or the rules made thereunder, and may exercise the powers delegated’ to it, and 
shall be liable to all the obligations imposed by this Act on Commissioners in 
respect of such powers. 

(4) All the proceedings of any such committee shall be subject to confirmation 
or modification by the Commissioners at a meeting, unless in special cases the 
Cummissioners at a meeting otherwise direct. 

(51 All questions regarding the removal or resignation of members of a com- 
mittee shall be settled by the Commissioners at a meeting, 

Joint Committees 

87. Formation of joint committees.— (11 Subject to the prescribed restrictions 
the Commissioners of any municipality may join with any other local authority 
in constituting out of their respective bodies a joint committee, for any purpose 
in which they are jointly interested, and in delegating to any such joint com- 
mittee any power which might be exercised by the Commissioners or any of the 
local authorities concerned. 

(2) Such joint committee may, from time to time, make rules as to its pro- 
ceedings, and as to the conduct of correspondence relating to the purpose for 
which it is constituted. 

88 . Decision of disputes between local authorities.— (1) If a dispute arises 
between the Commissioners of a municipality and any other local authority on 
any matter in which they are jointly interested, such dispute shall be referred 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY *>, 1%1/SIUVAMA 7, 1883 


[Part II 


1056 


to the State Government whose decision shall be final and shall not be questioned 
in any court; 

•*•••**„ 

(2) If such dispute arises between the Commissioners of two municipalities 
who have for any purpose constituted or who may, for the specific purpose of 
settling the dispute, constitute a joint committee under the provisions of section 
87 such joint committee shall, in the first instance, inquire into the said dispute 

1 , J taking such evidence, and calling for such papers as it may think fit, 
shall deliver a written award on the matters in dispute, which shall be binding 
on the Commissioners of both municipalities, provided that the Commissioners 
Of either of the said municipalities may appeal against such decision to the State 
Government, whose orders snail be final and shall not be questioned in any court: 

Provided that no dispute shall be decided under this section until the Com- 
missioners of the municipalities or the local authorities concerned have been heard 
or have had a reasonable opportunity of being heard 

1 State Govern ment may regulate by rules the relations to be observed 

between Commissioners of municipalities and other local authoritCs in any matter 
in which they are jointly interested: 


Special Committees 

89 Formation of special committees.— (1) The Commissioners at a meeting 
may, from time to time, by specific, resolution, appoint a special committee to 
mquire into and report upon any matter (to be specified in such resolution) 
which may arise in connection with anv of the powers, functions or duties of the 
Commissioners and which is not at the time under consideraton bv a standing 
committee constituted under section 8fi. 


(2) The provision of sub-sections (3), (41 and (5) of section 86 shall be 
deemed to apply to every such special committ e, which shall confine its enquiry 
to the matter specified in the resolution whereby it was constituted 


90. Appointment of persons other than Commissioners as members of com- 
mittees.— Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act. the Commissioners at 
a meeting may associate with any committee appointed under section 89 for such 
period as they muy think fit any person of either sex who is not a Commissioner 
but who may, In the opinion of the Commissioners, possess special qualifications 
for serving on such committee and such persons shall have a right to vote at 
meetings of the special committee, and shall be d'emed tp be members thereof 
lor all purpose for such period: 

Provided that the number of persons so appointed 0 n any committee shall not 
exceed one-third of the whole number of the members of such committee 


Rules of Business 


91. Power to make rules as to business of Commissioners and committees. 

The Commissioners at a meeting may, subject to the sanction of the State 
Government, make rules as to — 


(a) the time of their meetings, the business to be transacted at meetings 

and the period of notice 0 f meetings and the manner in which such 
notice shalJ be given; 

(b) the conduct and control of proceedings at meetings, the due record of 

all dissents and discussions, and the adjournment of meetings; 

(c) the custody of the common seal; 


I'd) the division of duties among the Commissioners and the powers to be 
exercised by members to whom particular duties arc assigned; 


(e) the manner of appointment and the constitution of 
regulation and conduct of their business; and 


committees and the 


(f) the delegation of powers or duties to committees or to the Chairman 
of a committee, 



5 ec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 19GI/SRAVANA 7, 1883 1057 


92 Validation of acts and proceedings. — (1) No act done or proceeding taken 
under this Act shall be questioned on the ground merely of — 

(a) the existence of any vacancy in or any defect in the constitution of, 

the municipality or any standing, joint or special committee or any 
disqualification in less than half of the Commissioners or members 

of the committee present when the act or proceeding was done or 

taken; 

(b) any Commissioner having voted or taken part in any proceeding in 

contravention of the proviso to section 62; or 

(c) any defect or irregularity not affecting the merits of the case. 

(2) Every meeting of the Commissioners, or of any standing joint or special 
committee, the minutes of the proceedings of which have been duly signed by 
the person presiding over the meeting shall he deemed to have been duly con- 
vened and iyhen th -1 minutes are confirmed at a subsequent meetings shall be 

deemed to be free from all defects and irregularity and the accidental omission 
to serve notice of a meeting on any Commissioner shall not affset the vulidity 
of the meeting. 


Administration Report 

93. Annual administration report. — (1) As soon as may be after the first day of 
April in every year and not later than such date as may be fixed by the State 
Government, the Commissioners shall submit to the State Government a report 
on the administration of the municipality during the preceding year in such form 
and with such details as the State Government may direct. A copy of the report 
shall be submitted by the Commissioners to the District Magistrate. 

(2) The report shall he published in such manner as the Commissioners at a 
meeting may direct. 


Cxiap'ier III A — Notified Aheas 

93-A. Constitution of notified areas. — (1) Whenever, in the opinion of the 
State Government, it is necessary to make provisions for all or any of the pur- 
poses of this Act in respect of 

(i) any area which does not fulfil the conditions for being constituted a 

municipality under this Act, 

(ii) any area which is comprised in a newly-developing town, or 

(iii) any area in which new industries have been or arc being established 
the State Government may, by notification, specifying such area, dcclure its 
intention to do so. 

(2) Any inhabitant of the area in respect of which a notification has been 
published under sub-section (1) may, if he objects to the action intended to be 
taken, submit his objection in writing to the State Government within three 
months from the date of the publication of the notification. 

(3) The State Government may, after considering the objections, if any, 
received by it during the period referred to in sub-section (2), make an order — 

(a) withdrawing the notification under sub-section (1), or 

(b) constituting the area specified in the notification or any part thereof, 

as a notified area for purposes of this Chapter. 

93B. Power to apply enactments to, and constitute Authority In, notified 
areas. — (1) The State Government may, by order to be published in the Official 
Gazette, — 

(i) extend to a notified area with such incid ntal or consequential modifica- 

tion as the State Government may consider necessary for giving 

effect to the provisions of this Chapter, — 

(a) any provision of this Act which applies to a municipality, or 

(b) any rule or by-law in force in any municipality; and 

(ii) appoint for a notified area a Committee consisting of not less than five 

and not more than nine members, to be known as the notified area 

Authority, to carry out all or any of the purposes of this Chapter. 

(2) The State Government shall appoint a Chairman and may also appoint a 
Vice-Chairman from amongst the members of the Committee referred to in clause 
(ii) of sub-section (1). 



1058 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, !!W1 /SRAVANA 7, 1385 (P/.bt H 


93C. Consequences of the application of the Act to a notified area, — (1) When 

any tax is imposed in a notified area under any of the provisions of this Act as 
extended under sub -section (1) of section 03B, the proceeds of such tax shall ba 
expended in the same manner in which any lor the same purposes for which the 
municipal fund may be expended by a municipality. 

(2) When any provision of this Act or any rule or by-law is extended with or 
without modification to a notified area, such provision or rule or by-law shall, 
unlegs a different Intention appears, operate as if the notified area were a munici- 
pality and as if th“ powers and duties of the Commissioners of a municipality 
were vested in the notified area Authority. 

03D. Abolition or alteration of a notified area, — The State Government may. 
at any time, and in accordance with the provisions of this Act, bv notification, — 

(i) constitute the notified area or any part thereof to he a municipality, or 

(ii) include the notified area or any part thereof within a municipality. 

93E. Consequences of such abolition or alteration. — Cl) When the whole of a 
notified area is constituted to be a municipality, the notified area shall cease to 
exist and the properties, funds and other assets vested in the notified area 
Authority and all the rights and liabilities of such Authority shall vest in and 
devolve on the municipality. 

(2) When a part of a notified area is constituted to be, or is included in, a 
municipality, such part shall be deemed to have been excluded from the area 
specified in the notification issued under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section 
93A and so much of the properties, funds and other assets vested in the notified 
area Authority and such of the rights and liabilities of such Authority as may be 
allocated by the State Government by order in this bihalf shall vest in and 
devolve on the municipality. 

******** 

93G. Officers and servants. — The notified area Authority may, subject to the 
approval of the State Government, appoint such officers and servants as may 
be necessary for the purposes of giving effect to the provisions of this Chapter. 

93H, Removal of difficulties. — If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the 
provisions of this Chapter or the lulcs made thereunder, the State Government 
may take such steps or issue such orders not inconsistent with the said provisions 
as may be necessary for the removal of the difficulty. 

931. Vesting of additional powers. — The Stati Government may by order vest 
the notified area Authority with such powers and duties exercisable by any other 
authority within the whole or any part of the notified area under any local or 
special law as the State Government thinks fit. 

93J. Power to make rules. — (1) The State Government may, by notification in 
the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Chapter. 

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing 
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:— 

(a) the qualifications for appointment of the members of the notified area 

Authority and the manner of filling casual vacancies among such 

members; 

(b) the term of office of the members, the Chairman and the Vice-Chair- 

man of the notified area Authority; 

(c) the number of members necessarv to constitute a quorum at a meeting 

of the notified area Authority: and 

(d) any other matter relating to the constitution and functions of the noti- 

fied area Authority.” 


Chapter IV — Municipal Property and Finance 
I. — Property, Contract and Liabilities 
Municipal property 

94. Commissioners may acauire and hold property within or without munici- 
pality. — The Commissioners of a municipality may acquire by gift, purchase or 



See. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JLII.Y 29, I961/SRAVANA 7. 1883 


105 9 


•etherwise and hold property whether movable or immovable within or without 
ibe limits of the municipality. 

95. Municipal property. — ( 1 ) All property within the municipality of the 
Mature hereinafter in this section specified, other than property maintained by 
the Central Government or another local authority, shall vest In and belong to 
the Commissioners, and shall, with all other property of whatsoever nature or 
kind which may become vested in the Commissioners, be under their direction, 
management and control, that is to say, — 

(a) all public streets, including the soil, the pavements, stones and other 

materials thereof and ah drains, bridges, culverts, trees, erections, 
materials, implements and other things provided for such streets; 

(b) all public channels, water courses, springs, tanks, ghats, reservoirs, 

cisterns, wells, aqueducts, conduits, tunnels, pipes, pumps, and other 
water works, whether made, laid or erected at the cost of the Com- 
missioners or otherwise, and all bridges, buildings, engines, works, 
materials, and things, connected therewith, or appertaining thereto, 
and also any adjacent land (not being private property) appertaining 
to any public tank; 

"Provided that water-pipes and any waterworks connected therewith or 
appertaining thereto which with the consent of the Commissioners 
are laid or set up in any street by the owners of any mill, factory, 
dockyard, workshop or the like primarily for the use of their 
employees shall not be deemed to be public waterworks by reason of 
their use by the public; 

•(c) all public sewers and drains, and all works, materials and things apper- 
taining thereto and other conservancy works: 

Provided that for the purpose of enlarging, deepening or otherwise repairing 
or maintaining any such sewer or drain the subsoil appertaining 
thereto shall also be deemed to vest in the Commissioners: 

"Provided also that where any installation or work for the treatment or 
disposal of sewage is constructed by the owners of any mill, factory, 
dockyard, workshop or the like primarily for the use of their 
employees, the laying of sewers and other things appertaining thereto 
In a street, with the consent of the Commissioners, shall not by virtue 
of this clause or by reason of their use by the public cans: such 
Installation or sewers or works appertaining thereto to vest in the 
Commissioners; 

-(d) all sewage, rubbish and offensive matter deposited on streets or collected 
by the Commissioners from streets, latrines, urinals, sewers, cesspools 
and other places; 

(e) all public lamps, lamp-posts and apparatus connected therewith or 
appertaining thereto; and 

<f) all buildings erected bv the Commissioners and all lands, buildings or 
other property transferred to the Commissioners by the Central or the 
State Government or acquired by gift, purchase or otherwise, for 
local public purposes. 

(2) The State Government may, by notification, exclude any street, bridge, 
■sewer or drain from the operation of this Act or of any specified section of this 

Act: 

Provided that, .if the cost of the construction of th? work shall have been paid 
from the Municipal Fund, such works shall not be excluded from the operation 
■of this Act or of any specified section of this Act except after consideration of 
the views of the Commissioners at a meeting. 

(3) All property, movable or immovable, and all interest of any kind whatso- 
ever, vested in. or held in trust for. the late Commissioners under the Tripura 
’State Municipal Act, 1549 T.E., shall become vested in the Commissioners, and all 
rights of whatsoever description used, enjoyed or possessed by the late Commis- 
sioners under such enactment shall become vested in the Commissioners for the 
purposes of this Act. 

96. Transfer of private streets, etc., to Commissioners. — The Commissioners at 
a meeting may agree with the person jn whom the property in any street, bridge, 
tank, ghat, well, channel or drain Is vested to take over the property therein 



io6o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 1MI /SRAVANA 7, 1883 [Part JI 


or the control thereof, and after such agreement may declare by notice in writ- 
ing put up thereon or near theieto, that such street, bridge, tank, ghat, well, 
channel or drain has been transferred to the Commissioners. 

Thereupon fhe property therein or the control thereof, as the case may be, 
shall vest in the Commissioners and such street, brige, tank, ghat, well, channel 
or drain shall Henceforth be repaired and maintained out of the Municipal Fund. 

97. Transfer of certain public institutions to the Commissioners. — (1) Any 

hospital, dispensary, school, library, museum, rest-house ghat or market within 
a municipality, not being private property or the property of a religious institu- 
tion or society, and all furniture and other articles appertaining thereto, not being 
such property, may, by order of the State Government duly published on the 
spot, be vested in the Commissioners of the municipality; and thereupon all 
endowments or funds belonging thereto shall be transferred to, and vested in. 
such Commissioners as trustees for the purposes to which such endowments ana 
funds wore lawfully applicable at the time of such transfer: 

Provided that no such order shall be published until one month after notice 
of the intention to transfer such property shall have been publised in the Official 
Gazette and in Bengali within the municipality. 

(2) If the Commissioners at a meeting, after publication of the said notice, 
object to the transfer to themselves of any hospital, dispensary, school, library, 
museum, rest-house, ghat or maiket on the ground that their funds cannot bear 
the charge, then such transfer shall not be made save under such conditions, as 
the Commissioners at a meeting may agree to accept, 

(3) Sub-section (1) shall not apply to any hospital, dispensary, school, library, 
museum, rest-hoeuse, ghat or market which is vested in the Official Trustee or to 
any hospital, dispensary, school, lihrary, museum, rest-house, ghat or market 
which is under the control of a properly constituted committee of management 
without the previous consent in writing of such committee of management. 

Power to acquire property 

98, Acquisition of land.— (1) When any land, whether within or without the 
limits of a municipality, is required — 

(a) for the purposes of this Act, or 

(b) for the recoupment of the cost or any portion of the cost of carrying out 

any such purpose, 

the State Government may, at the request of the Commissioners at a meeting, 
proceed to acquire it under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894), 

(2) Before requesting the State Government to acquire land for the purposes 
referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (T) the Commissioners shall obtain previ- 
ous sanction of the State Government and give due notice of their intention and 
an opportunity to any objector, who appears within such period as they may fix, 
to be heard in this connection. 

(3) On payment by the Commissioners of the compensation awarded under 
the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, and of any other charges incurred in acquiring 
the land including costs, if any, incurred by the State Government in proceeding* 
subsequent to acquisifion concerning enhancement of the award for the land, 
the land shall vest In the Commissioners. 

(4) The Commissioners shall be bound to pay to the State Government the 
cost, including all charges and costs referred to in sub-section (3), of any land 
acquired for the Commissioners on their application under the provisions of sub- 
section (1), 


Abandonment of acquisition 

99. Abandonment of acquisition in consideration of special payment. 11) In 

any case in which the Commissioners propose to acquire any land for the recoup- 
ment of the cost of carrying out any of the purposes of this Act, the owner of 
the land or any person having an interest therein greater than a lease for years 
having seven years to run may make an application to the Commissioners request- 
ing that the acquisition of the land be abandoned in consideration of the pay- 
ment by such person of a fee to be fixed by the Commissioners in that behalf. 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1888 iq6i 


(2) The Commissioners shall admit every such application if it reaches them 
before the time fixed by the Collector under section 9 of the Land Acquisition 
Act, 1094 (I of 1894), for making claims in reference to the land: 

Provided that unless the application is made by all persons who have an 
interest in the land greater than a lease for years having seven years to run, 
the application shall not be deemed to be admitted unless the person applying 
undertakes to pay in one instalment the full fee payable under sub-section (3) and 
thereafter pays such fee. 

Explanation. — A mortgagee shall not be deemed to be a person having an 
interest in the land greater than a lease for years having seven years to run. 

(3) If the Commissioners decide to admit any such application they shall forth- 
with inform the Collector, and the Collector shall thereupon stay proceedings 
for the acquisition of the land for such period as the Commissioners may request 
and the Commissioners shall proceed to fix a fee in consideration of which the 
acquisition of the land may be abandoned. 

(4) In fixing the fee to be paid in consideration of the abandonment of the 
acquisition of the land, the Commissioners shall, so far as to them appear to be 
practicable, fix a sum which in their opinion represents two-thirds of the incre- 
ment in the value of the land which will in their opinion accrue to that land as 
a result of the improvements effected in the locality by the scheme for the pur- 
poses of which the acquisition has been sanctioned. 

(5) Such fee shall be and remain a charge on the land, in respect of which it 
has been fixed, until the repayment thereof with interest in the manner herein- 
after provided and shall be payable by the applicant on or before a date to be 
fixed by the Commissioners m this behalf; and such date shall not be less than 
four years from the publication of the notification under section 8 of the Land 
Acquisition Act, 1834 (I of 1894), nor shall such date be a date before that on 
which the scheme is declared by the Commissioners to be completed in so far 
as it affects such land. 

(6) Before the date so fixed, the person from whom the Cotnjnissioners have 
arranged to accept the said fee, may, if the Commissioners are satisfied that the 
security offered by him is sufficient, execute an agreement with the Commis- 
sioners either — 

(i) to leave the said fee outstanding as a charge on his interest in the 

land subject to the payment in perpetuity of interest at a rate not 
exceeding seven per cent per annum the said interest to run from 
the date fixed under sub-section (5), or 

(ii) to pay the said fee by such number of equal yearly or half-yearly 

Instalments of principal or of principal and interest, as may be 
approved by the Commissioners, interest in both cases being calcu- 
lated at a rate not exceeding seven per cent per annum on the 
amount outstanding. 

(7) When the said fee has been paid on or before the date fixed under sub- 
section (5), or when an agreement has been executed in pursuance of sub-sec- 
tion (6) in respect of any land, the proceedings for the acquisition of land shall 
he deemed to be abandoned. 

(8) If the said fee be not paid on or before the date fixed und,er sub-section (5), 
the Collector shall then proceed to acquire the land. 

(9) If any sum payable under an agreement executed in pursuance of sub- 
section (6) be not paid on the date on which it is due, or on such later date as 
the Commissioners may in their discretion fix in this behalf, so much of the fee 
fixed by the Commissioners under sub-section (3) as is still unpaid, shall be pay- 
able on that dkte in addition to the said sum 

(10) At any time after an agreement has been executed in pursuance of 
clause (i) of sub-section (6) any person may pay off the balance outstanding of 
the charge created thereby with interest due, if any, at a rate not exceeding seven 
per cent per annum, up to the date of such payment. 

100. Recovery of money payable in pursuance of section 99. — When an agree- 
ment has been executed by any person in pursuance of sub-section (0) of sec- 
tion 99 in respect of any land, and any money payable in pursuance of that 
aeetion is not duly paid, the same shall be recoverable by the Commissioners 



1062 


[Part It 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1WJ/SR WANA 7, 1885 


(together with interest up to the date of realization, at a rate not exceeding seven, 
per cent per annum), under the provisions of this Act; 

and, if not recovered, the Commissioners may, after giving public notice of 
their intention to do so, and not less than one month after the publication of such, 
notice, sell the interest of the said person or successor in such land by public 
auction, and may deduct the said money and the expenses of the sale from the- 
proceeds of the sale, and shall pay the balance (if any) to the defaulter. 

101, Agreement or payment under section 99 not to bar acquisition under a 
fresh declaration. — If any land in respect of which an agreement has been exe- 
cuted, or a payment has been accepted in pursuance of sub-section (6) of sec-r 
tion 99 be subsequently required for any of the purposes of this Act, the agree- 
ment or payment shall not be deemed to prevent the acquisition of the land im 
pursuance of a fresh declaration published under section 6 of the Land Acqulal- 
tion Act, 1894 (I of 1894), 

Power to purchase , sell , lease or exchange. 

102. Power to purchase, lease and sell lands. — The Commissioners at a meet- 
ing may purchase, take on lease or otherwise acquire any land for the purpoaeg, 
of this Act, and may sell, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of any land not 
required for such purposes or which they have acquired for purposes of recoup- 
ment, 


Power to transfer public streets to the Central Government 

102A. Power to transfer public streets to the Central Government. — The Com- 
missioners at a meeting may transfer to the Central Government any public- 
street or part of a public street which is vested in and belongs to the Commis- 
sioners on such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon between the State- 
Government and the Commissioners. 

Contracts and liabilities. 

103, Execution of contracts. — (1) The Commissioners may enter into and per- 
form any contract necessary for the purposes of this Act. 

(2) Every contract made on behalf of the Commissioners in respect of any sum) 
exceeding five hundred rupees, or which shall involve a value exceeding five 
hundred rupees, shall be sanctioned by the Commissioners at a meeting and shall) 
be in writing, and signed by at least two of the Commissioners, one of whom 
shall bs the Chairman op Vice-Chairman, and shall be sealed with the common, 
seal of the Commissioners: 

Provided that in the case of a municipality the income of which during the 
preceding year was two and a half lakhs of rupees or more, the provision* of 
this sub-section shall apply as if the words one thousand rupees were substituted 
for the words five hundred rupees. 

(3) Unless so executed, such contract shall not be binding on the Commis- 
sioners. 

(4) Where the Indian Registration Act, 1908 (XVI of 190(1), or any rule made 
thereunder, requires or permits any act to be one with reference to a document 
by a person executing or claiming under the same, and the document has been 
executed on behalf of the Commissioners or is a document under which ther 
claim the act may, notwithstanding ans’thing to the contrary contained in tt» 
aforesaid enactment or in any rule thereunder, be done bv the Chairman, Vice- 
Chairman, Executive Officer, or Secretary of the municipalities or by any other 
officer of the municipality empowered in this behalf by the Commissioners at » 
meeting. 

104. Omitted. 


II.—. FINANCIAL PROVISIONS 

The Municipal Fund 

105. Municipal Fund. — There shall be constituted for each municipality a fund 
to be called the Municipal Fund and there shall be placed" to the credit thereof — 

(a) all sums received by or ori behalf of the Commissioners under this Act 
o’- otherwise: 



Sue. 3(i)] I HE GA/ETTE Of INDIA: JUL\ 99, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1 S88 jc63 


(b) the balance if, any, standing at the credit of the Municipal Fund of 
the Municipality at the commencement of this Act, 

106. Custody of Municipal Fund, — Unless the State Government otherwise 
directs, all sums received on account of the Municipal Fund shall be paid into a 
Government treasury, or into any bank used as a Government treasury in or 
near to the municipality, and shall be credited to an account to be called the 
account of the municipality, to which they belong: 

Provided that the Commissioners may invest any moneys not required for 
immediate use either in Government securities, or in any other form of security 
which may be approved of by the State Government or in fixed deposit in the 
State Bank of India. 

107. Priority of payments on account of loans, trusts, establishment and audit. — 

(Except as is otherwise provided in this Act, the Commissioners shall set apart 
and apply annually out of the Municipal Fund — 

(a) firstly, such sum as may be required for the repayment of, and the 

payment of interest on, any loan incurred under the provisions of 
the Local Authorities Loans Act, 1914 (IX of 1914). 

(b) secondly, such sum as is required for the discharge of the liabilities 

and obligations arising from any tiust legally imposed upon or 
accepted by the Commissioners; 

(c) Thirdly, such sums as they are by this Act required to provide for 

payment of the salaries and allowances of their own establishment, 
including such contributions as are referred to m section 70; 

(d) fourthly, such sum as the State Government may direct towards the 

cost of audit, towards the cost of establishment in any office of 
acqpijjit or in any treasury and towards the salary and cost of estab- 
lishment of any assessor or other special officers who may be appoint- 
ed under this Act. 

108. Purposes to which Municipal Fund Is applicable. — (1) Subject to the 
charges Specified in section 107, and subject to the payment of other sums, 
charges and costs necessary for carrying this Act into effect or duly directed or 
sanctioned for payment from the Municipal Fund by or under any of the provi - 
sions of this Act other than the provisions of this section or murder any other 
enactment for the time being in force, the Commissioners at a meeting may 
apply the Municipal Fund to any of the following purposes within the municipal- 
ity, that is to say— 

(i) the construction, diversion, maintenance and improvement of streets, 
tramways, 'bridges, squares, gardens, tanks, ghats; wells, channels, 
drains, latrines and urinals; 

fii) the watering and cleansing of streets-; 

(iii) lighting; 

(iv) water-supply; 

(v) conservancy and drainage including out-falis works and sewage dispo- 

sal and preparation of compost manure from sewage; 

(vi) the acquiring, keeping and equipping of open spaces for purposes of 

ventilation, or for the promotion of physical exercise and public 
recreation; 

(vii) the planting and preservation of trees in streets and public places; 

(viii) the construction, maintenance and improvement of offices and other 
buildings under the control of the Commissioners or required for 
municipal purposes; 

(ix) the construction and maintenance of model dwelling houses for the 

working classes and for the poorer classes; 

(x) the construction, establishment, maintenance and improvement of 

schools either wholly or by means of grants-in-aid; 

(xi) the training of teachers and the establishment of scholarships; 

(xil) the construction, establishment, maintenance and improvement of 
hospitals, dispensaries, leper asylums, orphanages, rescue houses, 
maternity houses, child welfare centres, sarais, poor-houses and 
dharamsalas, either wholly or by means of grants-in-aid; 



1064 


JPart II 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 2 9, l%iySRAVANA 7, 1S8S 


(xiii) the employment of vaccinators and the promotion of vaccination; 

(xiv) the training and employment of Health Officers, Sanitary Inspectors, 

medical practitioners, nurses, health visitors and midwives; 

(xv) the prevention of the spread of dangerous diseases; 

(xvi) regulating and abating offensive or dangerous trades and removing 

noxious vegetation; 

(xvii) the payment of the expenses of indigent inhabitants of the municipality 
for journeys to and from any hospital establishment in any part of 
the whole of India except Part B States for the treatment of special 
diseases, and of their subsistence and proper clothing thereat, accord- 
ing to such scale as may be fixed by the Commissioners at a meeting; 

(xviii) the construction, establishment, maintenance and improvement of 
veterinary dispensaries, and the training and employment of veteri- 
nary practitioners; 

(xix) the improvement of the breed of cattle; 

(xx) the payment of rewards for the destruction of noxious animals or 
diseased or unclaimed dogs; 

(xxl) all acts and things which are necessary for carrying out the purposes 
of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1890; 

(xxli) the construction, establishment, maintenance and improvement of 
municipal markets or slaughter-houses or the taking of markets or 
salughter-houses on lease; 

(xxili) the construction, establishment, maintenance and improvement of 
municipal dairy farms, grazing grounds and milk depots and all acta 
and things that may be necessary for the increase and improvement 
of the milk supply; 

(xxiv) the establishment and maintenance of public places for the disposal of 
the dead; 

(xxv) the provision and maintenance of an assistance to public libraries and 
museums; 

(xxvi) the establishment and maintenance of a fire brigade; 

(xxvii) the holding of fairs and industrial, sanitary and health exhibitions; 

(xxvlii) the taking of a census for the purposes of the municipality; 

(xxix) the survey of buildings and lands and the preparation and maintenance 
from time to time of survey maps and plans and of other records 
relating to survey; 

(xxx) the giving of relief, and the establishment of relief works, in time of 
famine, scarcity, or any natural calamity; 

(xxxi) the disposal of unclaimed corpses and the burial or cremation of pau- 
pers, and the payment of contributions to charitable Institutions for 
assisting in such disposal, burial or cremation; 

(xxxil) the payment of compensation to any person sustaining any damage by 
reason of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Act; 

(xxxiil) the payment to an officer or servant of the Commissioners of a bonus 
for good work done, or of compensation, for loss incurred In the exe- 
cution of his duty; 

(xxxiv) the carrying on of propaganda for ^public health and educational pur- 
poses; 

(xxxlva) the purchase and hoisting of the national flag; 

(xxxtvb) the payment of, or the payment of a contribution to, the cost Incurred 
on the occasion of any public ceremony held within the limits of the 
municipality; 

(xxxv) the re-excavation and repair of private tanks, wells and other sources 
of watfir-supply on such terms and conditions as to the Commission- 
ers at a meeting may seem proper; and 

(xxxvi) all acts and things which are necessary for carrying out the purposes 
of this Act, or which are likely to promote the safety, health, welfare 
or convenience of the inhabitants of the municipality, expenditure 
whereon may be declared by the Commissioners, with the sanction of 
the State Government, to be an appropriate charge on the Municipal 
Fund. 



1065 


Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


(2) The Commissioners may do all things, not being inconsistent with this Act, 
(which may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section, 

(3) Nothing in this section shall affect any obligation of the Commissioners 
.arising from a trust legally imposed upon or accepted by them. 

109, Power to Commissioners to Incur expenditure beyond the limits of the 

municipality. — Notwithstanding anything contained in section 108, the Commis- 
.sioners at a meeting may, with the sanction of the State Government — 

(a) incur expenditure beyond the limits of the municipality — 

(i) in the acquisition of land, or 

(il) in the construction, maintenance or repair of works, for the purpose 
of obtaining a supply of water or of lighting required for the in- 
habitants of the municipality or for establishing places for the dis- 
posal of the dead or of establishing slaughter-houses or places for the 
disposal of night-soil or sewage or carcasses of animals beyond the 
said limits or for drainage works or for dairy-farms and grazing- 
grounds or for any other purpose calculated to promote the health, 
safety or convenience of the inhabitants of the said municipality; or 

(b) make a contribution towards expenditure Incurred by the Commission- 

ers of any other municipality or incurred out of any public funds for 
any of the purposes mentioned in section 108 or for measures affect- 
ing the health, comfort or convenience of the public and calculated 
to benefit the residents within the limits of the contributing muni- 
cipality or towards the salary of any officer under any other autho- 
rity whose services are employed by them; or 

(c) create scholarships tenable outside the limits of the municipality: 

Provided that nothing in this section, or in any other provision of this Act, 
»hall be deemed to make it unlawful for the Commissioners of a municipality, 
when with such sanction as aforesaid they have constructed works beyond the 
limits of the said municipality for the supply of water or lighting or for drainage 
as aforesaid, — 

(a) to supply or extend to, or for the benefit of, any person or buildings or 

lands In any place, whether such place is or is not within the limits 
of the said municipality any quantity of water or of gas or electric 
current not required for the purposes of this Act within the said 
municipality or the advantages afforded by the system of such drai- 
nage works, on such terms and conditions, with regard to payment 
ana to the continuance of such supply or advantages as shall be 
settled by agreement between the Commissioners and such person or 
the owner or occupier of such buildings or lands; or 

(b) to incur any expenditure, on such terms with regard to payment as may 

be settled as aforesaid, for the construction, maintenance, repair or 
alteration of any connection pipe3 or other works necessary for the 
purpose of such supply or for the extension of such advantages. 

110. Objects not provided for by this Act. — The State Government or any local 
authority may, at any time with the consent of the Commissioners, transfer to 
them the management of any institution or the execution of any work not pro- 
vided for by this Act and it shall thereupon be lawful to the Commissioners to 
■undertake the management of such institution or the execution of such works: 

Provided that in every such case the funds necessary for such management or 
execution shall he placed at their disposal by the State Government or by the 
local authority concerned. 

111. Restriction on application of moneys received for certain purposes— Not- 
withstanding anything contained in section 108 — 

(1) all moneys collected, received or recovered by the Commissioners, whether 
jas taxes or for the execution of works, for or in any respect relating to— 

(i) the water-supply; 

(ii) the lighting system; 

(111) the cleansing of private latrines, urinals and cess-pools and conservancy; 



1066 


[Pact 11 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29. 19filyMlAVAN/V 7, 188S 


shall, after deduction of such proportionate share of the cost of collection and 
supervision as the Commissioners at a meeting may fix, be applied in defraying, 
the expenses respectively — 

(a) of making, extending or maintaining the water-supply, 

(b) of making, extending or maintaining the lighting system, 

(c) of cleansing latrines, urinals and cess-pools and of conservancy, 

as the case may he, and in repaying or paying interest on debts incurred in con- 
nection with thie said purposes: 

Provided that the State Government may at any time on the request of the 
Commissioners authorize the expenditure of surplus moneys accrued in respect 
of any of the services mentioned in sub-clauses (l), (ii) and (hi) of tlqjs clause 
on any other of the services mentioned in those sub -clauses or for general pur- 
poses: 

Provided also that before authorizing such expenditure the State Government 
shall give an opportunity for the submission of any objection to such expenui- 
ture by any rate-payer in the municipality and shall consider such objection; and 

(2) money which has been received by the Commissioners on account of any 
hospital or dispensary, or for any other specified purpose, or directed by them 
to bo applied to the establishment or maintenance pf any hospital or dispensary 
or any other specified purpose shall not, except as provided m clause (1), be 
expended on any other object. 


The Budget 

112. Annual estimates to be prepared. — At least two months before the clone 
of the year, the Commissioners shall have prepared a complete account of the 
actual and expected receipts and expenditure for that year together with a budget 
estimate of the income and expenditure of the municipality for the next year. 

113. Accounts and estimates to be published. — Copies of the accounts and esti- 
mates referred to in section 112 and translations thereof in Bengali shall be lodged 
in the office of the Commissioners, 

During fourteen days after the estimates shall have been so lodged In the said 
office, of which due notice shall be locally published, the estimates and translations 
in Bengali shall be open to inspection at all reasonable times by any person paying 
municipal rates, tolls, fees or taxes to such municipality who may desire to Inspect 
the same. 

Any written suggestion which may be deposited in the office of the Commis- 
sioners shall be recorded and laid before them for consideration at the special 
meeting referred to In sub-section (1) of section 113A. 

113A. Accounts, estimates and suggestions to be laid before the Commissioners. — 

(1) The accounts and estimates referred to In section 112, together with any- 
written suggestion deposited under section 113, shall be laid before the Commis- 
sioners at a meeting specially convened for the purpose at least one month before 
the close of the year. 

(2) Subject to the provisions of section 1 in. the Commissioners shall, at such 
meeting, decide upon the appropriations and the ways and means contained in 
the budget estimate and, by resolution, sanction a budget which shall be submit- 
ted to the State Government or to such officer or officers as the State Government 
may, by order, direct In this behalf. 

(3) Subject to the like provisions, the Commissioner may vary or alter from 
time to time, as circumstances may render desirable, by special resolution, the 
budget sanctioned under sub-section (2). 

114. The revised budged. — As soon as may be after the first day of October a 
revised budget for the year shall be framed and such revised budget shall so far 
as may be, be subject to all the provisions applicable to a budget made under 
sections 112, 113 and 113A. 

115. Minimum closing balance shown in budget.— In framing a budget the 
Commissioners shall provide for the maintenance of such minimum closing balance' 
(if any) as the State Government may, by order, prescribe, for the service of 
municipal loans and for carrying out any duty or obligation specifically imposed 
upon them under this Act or any other enactment 



1067 


Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 19GI/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


116. Budgets of indebted boards.— Where, in the opinion of the State Govern- 
ment, the condition of indebtedness of any municipality is such us to make the 
control of Government over its budget desirable, the State Government may, by 
order declaring that such is the case, direct that the budget of such municipality shall 
be subject to the sanction of the State Government or of the officer to whom it Is 
to be submitted under the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 113 A, as the 
case may be, and that the power to vary or alter the budget under sub-section (3) 
of section 113 A shall be subject to conditions to be prescribed by rule. 

117. Prohibition of expenditure in excess of budget. — (1) Where a budget has been 
passed the Commissioners shall not incur any expenditure under any of the heads 
of the budget, other than a head providing for the refund of taxes, in excess of 
the amount passed under that head without making provision for such excess by 
the variation or alteration of the budget. 

(2) Where any expenditure under any head providing for the refund of taxes 
is incurred in excess of the amount parsed under that head, provision shall be 
made without delay for such expenditure by the variation or alteration of the 
budget. 

118 Power of State Government, if work estimated to cost more than ten 
thousand rupees. — If any work is estimated to cost above ten thousand rupees, 
the State Government may require the plans and estimates of such work to be 
submitted for its approval, or for the approval of any servant of the Govern- 
ment before such work is commenced; and may require statements of the progress 
and completion of such work, with accounts of the expenditure on the same, to- 
be submitted from time to time, in such form as it may prescribe, for its approval, 
or for the approval of such officer. 

Explanation.— Nothing in this section shall apply t 0 the purchase of a motor 
vehicle the price of whichdoes not exceed fifteen thousand rupees. 

III. — General. 

Disposal of Municipal Fund and property, on division, union withdrawal or 
revision of boundaries of municipalities 

119. Apportionment and disposal of municipal property upon a division or union 
of municipalities. — When two or more municipalities are united or a municipality 
is divided or the boundaries of two or more municipalities are revised by a noti- 
fication under section 8. the Municipal Funds or Fund and all property vested 
in the Commissioners of the municipalities or municipality concerned shall be 
consolidated, or apportioned m such manner as the State Government may direct. 

120. Disposal of fund and property on exclusion of local area from municipality 
or withdrawal of municipality from Act. — (1) When a local area is excluded 
from a municipality by a notification under clause (c) or clause (f) of section 0, 
the State Government shall after consulting the Commissioners, frame a scheme 
determining what portion of the balance of the Municipal Fund and other pro- 
perty vested in the Commissioners shall vest in the Central Government and in 
what manner the liabilities of the Commissioners shall be apportioned between 
the Commissioners and the Central Government; and on the publication of such 
scheme in the Official Gazette such property and liability shall vest and be 
apportioned accordingly, 

(2) When the whole area comprised in any municipality is withdrawn from 
the operation of this Act by a notification under clause (b) of section 8, the 
balance of the Municipal Fund and all other property at the time of the publica- 
tion of the notification vested in the Commissioners shall vest in the Central 
Government and the liabilities of the Commissioners shall be transferred to the 
Centra) Government, 

(3) Omitted by Sch. IV to the Government of India ( Adaptation of Indian Laws} 
Order, 1937. 

121. | Audit of accounts].— Omitted by s. 28 of the Bengal Municipal ( Amend- 
ment', I Act, 1935 (West Bengal Act XXVII of 1955). 

Rules as to the Municipal Fund and property 

122. Power to make rules. — The State Government may make rules— 

(a) to regulate the application of the Municipal Fund to the purposes fo* 
which it is applicable; 



ao68 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA JULY _ ,r >, D61/SRAVANA 7, 1883 [Part II 


(b) to regulate the keeping, checking and publication of accounts and the 

periodical audit thereof, 

(c) to regulate the preparation of the budget estimate and the expenditure 

of money for purposes provided therein, 

(d) to provide for the retention of adequate working and closing balances, 

(e) to provide for the preparation of plans and estimates for works referred 

to in section 118 to be partly or wholly constructed at the expense 
of the Commissioners, and to determine the persons by whom, and 
the conditions subject to which such plans and estimates are to be 
sanctioned, 

<f) to legulate the preparation si bmission and publication of returns state- 
ments and reports by the Commissioners, and to prescribe registers 
and forms , 

<*) to determine the persons by whom orders for payment of money from 
the Municipal Fund may be signed, how such payments shall be made 
and by whom receipts may be given, and 

(h) to provide for the supply of certified copies Of municipal records to 
the public and the Jevy of fees for such supply 


Chapter IVA — Audit 

122A Audit of accounts of Municipal Funds — (1) The accounts of Municipal 
Funds shall be examined and audited by an auditor appointed In that behalf by 
(he State Government at such time, to such extent and m such manner as the 
State Government may prescribe 

(2) An auditor appointed under this section shall be deemed to be a public 
.servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code Act XLV of 
1800 

(.3) The State Government may direct that the whole or any portion of the 
cost of audit ag determined by it including the salary of the auditor, shall be paid 
from the Municipal Fund within such time as it may flx 

122B Submission of accounts to audit— The Chairman shall produce or cause 
to be produced to the auditor all such accounts of the Municipal Fund as may be 
required by the auditor 


122C Powers of auditors. — For the purposes of an audit under this Act, an 
auditor may— 

(1) require In writting the production before him of any document or the 

supply of any information which he considers to be necessary for 
the proper conduct of the audit 

(2) require in writing the personal appearance before him of any person 

accountable for, or having the custody or control of, any such docu- 
ment or»having, directly or Indirectly, and whether by himself or his 
partner, any share or interest In any contract made with, by or on 
behalf of the Commissioners, and 

(3) require any person so appearing before him to make and sign a dec- 

laration with respect to any such document or to answer any auestion 
or prepare and submit any statement 

122D Penalty— (1) Any person whp neglects or refuses to comply with a 
■requisition made by an auditor under section 122C, within such time or such 
extended time as may be specified, shall, on conviction by a Court, be punishable 
with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees in respect of each item includ- 
ed in the requisition 

(2) No complaint in respect of an offence punishable under sub-section (1) 
shall be made except with the previous sanction in writing of the State Govern- 
ment 

(3) No Magistrate other than a Magistrate of the first or second class shall 
-try an offence punishable under sub-section (1) 



Sec. 8(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29. 196I/SRAVANA 7, 1883 I06?> 


122E. Audit report. — (1) Within three months from the date on which an audit- 
under this Act is completed, the auditor shalL prepare a report on the accounts 
audited and shall send the report to the Chairman and a copy, thereof to the State- 
Government. 

(2) The auditor shall Include in the report a statement showing— 

(a) any material impropriety or irregularity which he rpay observe in the 

expenditure or in the recovery of monies due to the Commissioners 
or in the accounts of the Municipal Fund; 

(b) any loss or waste of money or other property owned by or vested in 

the Commissioners which has been caused by noglect or misconduct 
on the part of the Commissioners or their employees. 

122F. Action by Commissioners and by State Government.— (1) Within three 
months from the receipt of the report referred to in section 122E, the Commls- 
sioners at a meeting shall remedy any defect or irregularity pointed out in the 
report and shall report to the auditor the action taken by them. In their report 
the Commissioners shall give reasons or explanations for not remedying any 
defect or irregularity. 

(2) If, within the period prescribed in sub-section (1), no report is received 
from the Commissioners by the auditor or if the reason or explanation given by 
them for not remedying any defect or irregularity as aforesaid is not considered 
sufficient by the auditor, the auditor shall. If he has not already exercised or does 
not propose to exercise the powers conferred upon him by section 122G, submit 
to the State Government a statement of the facts of the case within such time 
and in such manner as the State Government may prescribe. 

(9) On receipt of a statement under sub-section (2), the State Government 
may issue to the Corrtmissioners such order as it may think fit, which shall not 
be questioned, and the Commissioners shall comply with the order within the 
period specified therein. 

(41 If the Commissioners fail to comply with the order within the period 
specified therein, the State Government may appoint a person to carry out the 
order, and may determine the remuneration payable to such person, and may 
direct .that such remuneration and any cost incurred in carrying out the order 
shall be paid from the Municipal Fund. 

(5) A person appointed under sub-section (4) shall, for the purpose of carry- 
ing out the order, exercise any of the powers which might have been exercised 
by the Commissioners or the Commissioners at a meeting under any law for the 
time being Jn force. 

122G. Power of auditor to disallow any illegal payment or loss Incurred by 
negligence or sum not brought Jnto account.- — (1) The auditor, after giving the 
persons concerned an opportunity to submit an explanation within a time to be 
specified by him and after considering any such explanation, shall, disallow every 
item of account contrary to law and surcharge the same on the person making 
or authorising the making of the illegal payment and shall charge against any 
person responsible for the amount of any loss incurred by the negligence or 
misconduct of that person and shall in every such case certify the amount due 
from such person; 

Provided that the auditor may in his discretion waive the charge in cases 
where the amount involved does not exceed twenty-five rupees. 

(21 For Ihc purposes of this section, any Commissioner or member of a Stand- 
ing Committee or a Joint Committee or a member associated with a Committee 
under section 90 who Is present at a meeting at which a motion or resolution Is 
passed authorising any expenditure which is subsequently disallowed under sub- 
section (1) or authorising any action which results in any such expenditure, shall 
be deemed to be a person authorising such expenditure if he votes in favour of 
such motion or resolution, and all persons so voting shall be held jointly and 
severally liable for such expenditure. 

(3) The auditor shall record in writing his reasons for every disallowance, 
surcharge and charge made under sub-section (1) and shall, in such manner as 
may be prescribed, send a certificate of the amount due and a copy of the reasons 
for his decision to the person in respect of whom the certificate is made, and. 
shall also furnish copies thereof to the Chairman and the State Government. 



[Part H 


2 0j0 


THE GA/EATF. OF INDIA ■ JVLY U61 /.SR \ VAN A 7, 1363 


(4) The State Government may. of Its own motion and within one year from 
■the receipt by it of the copy of the certificate, set aside or modify any disallow- 
ance, surcharge or charge and any certificate in respect thereof made by the 
auditor. 

122H, Appeal. — (l) Any person from whom any sum has been certified by the 
auditor to be due under section 122G may, within three months from the receipt 
.by him of the certificate,— 

fa) apply to the District Judge to set aside or modify the disallowance, 
surcharge or charge in respect of which the certificate was 
made, and the District Judge after taking such evidence as he 
considers necessory, may confirm, set aside or modify the disallowance, 
surcharge or charge and the certificate, and may make such order 
as to costs as he may think proper in the circumstances; or 
(b) In lieu of making an application under clause (a), appeal to the State 
Government, who may pass thereon such order as it thinks fit, and 
such order shall be final. 

(2) Where a person referred to in section 122'Q, sub-section (2), who has been 
.surcharged as authorising an illegal expenditure appeals to the State Government 
under this section, the State Government shall set aside such surcharge if it is 
proved to its satisfaction that such person voted for the resolution or motion in 
.good faith. 

1 22 r. Payment of certified sums.- — (1) The sum certified by the auditor to be 
■due from any person under section 122G or where an application is made under 
clause (a) of sub-section (X) of section 122H or an appeal is made under clause 
<b) of that sub-section such sum as may be decreed or ordered by the Court or 
the State Government to be due from such person shall, within three months of 
the date of certification, decree or order, as the case may be, be paid by surh 
person to the Commissioners who shall credit the sum to the Municipal Fund. 

(2) Any sum not paid In accordance with the provisions of sub-section (11 
shall be recoverable as if it were an arrear of land revenue under the Tripura 
.Land Reveriue and Land Reform Act. 1 960 (42 of 1960). 

(J) The Collector of the district shall pay to the Commissioners any sum 
recovered by him under sub-section (2). 

122 J. Certain cost and expenses payable out of Municipal Funds. — (i) All 

expenses Incurred by the Commissioners in complying with any requisition of 
an auditor under section 122C and in prosecuting an offender under section 122D 
-shall be paid from the Municipal Fund. 

(2) All costs allowed by the District Judge against an auditor under section 
122H, and all expenses incurred by the Collector of the District in connection 
with the proceedings for recovery of any sum under sub-section (2) of section 
1221 from a person, if not recovered from the person shall be paid from the 
Municipal Fund. 

(3) If the Commissioners fail to pay from the Municipal Fund any costs or 
expenses referred to In sub-sections (1) and (2) within such period as may be 
determined by the State Government in this behalf, the State Government may 
attach the Municipal Fund or any portion thereof. 

( 4 ) After such attachment no person except an officer appointed in this behalf 
by the State Government shall in any way deal with the attached fund or por- 
tion thereof, but such officer may do all such acts in respect thereof as the Com- 
missioners might have done if the attachment had not taken place, and may apply 
the proceeds of the fund in satisfaction of the rests and expenses due, the interest 
accruing in respect of such costs and expenses and any additional expenses 
resulting from the attachment and any subsequent proceedings: provided that no 
-such attachment shall defeat or prejudice any charge or debt for which the fund 
attached was previously liable In accordance with law but all such prior charges 
and debts shall be paid out of the proceeds of the fund before any part of the 
proceeds of the funds is applied to the satisfaction of the costs and expenses 
payable to the Central Government under this section, 

12?K Certain expenses not chargeable to Municipal Funds without previous 

sanction! The Commissioners shall not incur any expenditure in connection with 

4 any application or appeal against a surcharge or charge in respect of which a 



Sec, S(i)] THE CA7ETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, I961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 IO7I 


certificate is issued by the auditor without the previous sanction of the State 
<Jovernment. 

122L. Power to make rules.— (11 The State Government may, after previous 
publication, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Chapter and matters 
ancillary thereto. 

(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing 
power, such rules may provide for — 

(a) the manner and form in which the accounts of the Municipal Fund 

shall be maintained; 

(b) the powers and duties of the auditor and the procedure to be followed 

by him and the time and place at which such audit shall be held; 

(c) the agency hy which and the manner in which prosecutions under 

sub-section (1) of section 122D shall be instituted; 

(d) the period within which and the manner in which the statement referr- 

ed to in sub-section (2) of section 122F shall be submitted; 

(el the manner of sending a certificate under sub-section (3) of section 

122G and the form of such certificate. 


Chapter V.— Municipal Taxation 
Imposition of taxes 

123. Power to Impose taxes— (1) The Commissioners may from time to time, 
»t a meeting convened expressly for the purpose, subject to the provisions of this 
Act, impose within the limits of the municipality the following rates, taxes, tolls 
and fees, or any of them: — 

(a) a rate on holdings situated within the municipality assessed on their 

annual value; 

(b) a water-rate on the annual value of holdings; 

(c) a lighting-rate on the annual value of holdings; 

(d) a conservancy, latrine and drainage rate (hereafter known as the con- 

servanry-rate) on the annual value of holdings; 

(e) a tax on carriages and on horses and other animals mentioned In 

Schedule III; 

(f) a tax on the trades, professions and callings specified in Schedule IV 

at such rates as may be fixed by the Commissioners within the maxi- 
mum rates fixed in the said Schedule; 

(g) a fee on the registration of carts; 

(h ) tolls on ferries and on bridges; 

(1) a fee on vessels moored within the limits of the municipality at ghats 
or landing places constructed and maintained by the Commissioners; 
and 

(]) any other tax which the Commissioners are empowered to impose under 
any law for the time being In force. 

(2) The Commissioners may, from time to time, at a meeting convened as 
aforesaid, and in accordance with a scale of fees to be approved by the State 
Government, charge a fee in respect of the issue and renewal of any license 
which may be granted by them under this Act and in respect of which no fee or 
tax is leviable under sub-section (1). 


123 A. Exemption of diplomatic or consular mission of a foreign State from 
payment of any rate, tax, toll or fee.— The State Government may, by order, 
exempt from the payment of any rate. tax. toll or fee payable under the provi- 
sions of this Act, any diplomatic Or consular mission of a foreign State and the 
•diplomatic and consular officers of such mission. 



1072 


THE GAZETTE OF INDU JULY 29, 1%1 /sR 1VA\A 7, 1883 


[Part II 


124 Restrictions on the Imposition of the tax on holdings, — (1) The rate on 
holdings shall not be Imposed— 

(a) m any municipality at a rate exceeding ten per centum, on the annual 
value of holdings, 

(bj on any holding which Is used exclusively as a place of worship to 
which the public have the right of free access without payment or 
as a mortuary or which is duly registered as a public burial or burn- 
ing ground under this Act 

(2) The Commissioners at a meeting may, eithei wholly 01 partially, exempt 
from the rate on holdings any holding which is used exclusively for purposes of 
public charity 

(3) Where the aggregate annual value of all the holdings held by any one- 
owner withm a municipality does not exceed six rupees, (he rate on holdings shall 
not be imposed on any of the holdings of the said owner 

* * • * * 

120 Restrictions on the imposition of the water and lighting rates, — (1) The 

imposition of a water-rate or of a lighting-rate shall be subject to the following 
restrictions, namely, — 

(a) that the rate shall be imposed only on holding within an area for the 

supply of water to which or for the lighting of which, as the case 
may be, a scheme involving the laying ot pipes, wncs, cabks 01 other 
similar gppaiatus has been sanctioned by the State Government 

Provided that where the Commissioners— 

(I) distribute water by means of water carts or other like agency or 

provide a water-supply, approved by the State Government, by 
means of wells or tanks or olhei rcservons, 01 

( II ) provide acetylene lamps 01 such other means of lighting as may be 

approved by the State Government 

the Commissioners at a meeting may Impose In case (1J a water-rate and 
in case (ii) a hghtmg-rate under such conditions and limitations 
as may be prescribed by the State Government 

(b) that the rate shall not be imposed on land used exclusively for purposes- 

of agrlcultuie or on any holding consisting only of tanks or In the 
case of the water rate on any holding, no part of which is within a 
radius to be fixed by the Commissioners at a meeting, from the 
nearest standpipe or other supply of water available to the public; 

(c) that the water rate shall not be levied at more than seven and-a-half 

per centum, and the lightmg-rate at more than three per centum, on 
the annual value of holdings, 

(d) that the rate shall not be leviable until a supply of water has been 

provided In the area to be supplied, or until the lamps in the area 
to be lighted have been lighted as the case may be, 

(2) Nothing In this section shall prevent the Commissioners at a meeting from 
making any special arrangement consistent with this Act for a supply of water 
or electric current or gas to persons residing beyond the radius fixed by the Com- 
missioners at a meeting and for the levy of charges for the same 

(3) With the sanction of the Commissioners at a meeting the amount of the 
water rate may vary with the distance of holdings from the nearest standpipe or 
other sources of water supply, and the amount may be higher in the case of 
premises to which communication pipes are attached than In the case of other 
premises 

126 Restrictions on the Imposition of the conservancy rate. — (1) The Imposi- 
tion of the conservancy-rate shall be subject to the following restrictions namely, — 

(a) that where there is no underground sewerage system the rate on any 

jail, reformatory or lunatic asylum In which an establishment is main- 
tained for the cleansing of latrines, urinals and cesspools therein 
shall not exceed such proportion of the rate in force for the munici- 
pality as the State Government may fix; 

(b) that the rate shall not be leviable in any area until the Commissioners 

have made provision for the cleansing of private latrines, urinals and 
cesspools within such area. 



Sec. S(i)] THE G.UEfTE OE INDIA: JULY 20, 196I/SRAVANA 7, 188S 


10 73 


(c) that the rate shall not be levied at more than ten per centum on the 
annual value ot any holding, 

(1A) A rebate of twenty-five per centum of the conservancy-rate levied on a 
holding shall be allowed if the holding is provided with one or more sanitary-type 
latrines and with no service-privy or service-urinal. 

(2) The Commissioners at a meeting at their discretion may compound for 
any period not exceeding one year with the person liable to pay the rate on any 
railway premises or on any premises used as a mill, factory, dockyard, workshop, 
mazdoor-depot, school, hospital, market, court-house, or other similar place for a 
certain sum to be paid by such person in lieu of the rate or, In the ease of such 
premises or places may in lieu of levying the rate on the annual value of the 
holding levy it at a certain amount per head, to be fixed by the Commissioners 
at a meeting, on the number of persons living within or habitually resorting to 
such premises or places. 

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section any person otherwise 
liable to pay the rate on any railway premises or on any premises used as a mill, 
factory, dockyard, workshop, mazdoor-depot, school, hospital, market, court-house 
or other similar place may, from year to year by, application to the Commissioners, 
require that the rate shall be levied on such premises at a percentage not exceed- 
ing one-fourth of the percentage fixed under sub-section (1), provided that he 
proves to the satisfaction of the Commissioners that all latrines and urinals on 
such premises are served, cleansed and kept In a satisfactory condition by an 
establishment maintained at his own cost, and that the sewage therefrom under- 
goes such treatment at his cost, by means of septic tanks or other similar works 
constructed to the satisfaction of the Commissioners, as to render the effluent 
innocuous and Inoffensive and capable of being discharged into the municipal 
drains, and the Commissioners shall levy such rate accordingly; 

Provided that the exemption from paying the full rate conferred under 
this sub-section — 

(i) shall not apply where the Commissioners have, before the conservancy 
arrangements referred to in this sub-section were made, provided 
an underground sewerage system which is, in the opinion of the 
State Government, of sufficient capacity and in every respect ade- 
quate for the efficient treatment and disposal of all sewage in the 
area served by it; 

(11) shall, where the Commissioners have, after the conservancy arrange- 
ments referred to in this sub-section were made, provided an 
underground sewerage system which in the opinion of the State 
Government, fulfils the requirements specified in clause (i), termi- 
nate after a term of years to be determined by the State Govern- 
ment in each case; 

(lii) may, subject to the approval of the State Government, be granted by 
the Commissioners at a meeting to a mill, factory, dockyard, 
workshop, mazdoor-depot, school, hospital, market, court-house or 
other similar place which contributes or has contributed towards the 
construction of an underground sewerage system. 

127. Power to call for list of occupants of holdings.— The Commissioners may, 
for the purposes of conservancy, or for the levy of the conservancy-rate, by a 
notice in writing, require the owner or occupier of any holding to furnish, within 
a time to be specified in the notice, a true and correct list of the number of per- 
sons living within, or habitually resorting to, such holding. 


Assessment of rates on the annual value of holdings 

128. Annual value of holdings. — (1 ) The annual value of a holding shall be 
deemed to be the gross annual rental at which the holding may reasonably be 
expected to let. 

(2) If such gross annual rental cannot, in the opinion of the assessor, be easily 
estimated or ascertained, the annual value of such holding shall be deemed to 
be an amount which may be equal to but may not exceed seven-and-half per 
centum on the value of the building or buildings^ on such holding at the time of 
such assessment plus a reasonable ground rent for the land comprised in the 
holding: 



1074 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, J‘161 /SKA YANA 7, 1883 


[Part II 


Provided that, where the value of the building or buildings on the holding 
exceeds three lakhs of rupees, th-e percentage on the annual value to be levied 
in respect of so much of the value as is excess of three lakhs of rupees shall not 
exceed one half percentage determined by the Commissioners under section 135. 

(3) The value of any machinery or furniture which may be on a holding shall 
not be taken into consideration in estimating the annual value of such holding 
under this section. 

129. Power of Commissioners to decide questions arising out of the definition 

of “holding". — For the purpose of, and subject to, clause (21) of section 3 — 

(a) if a question arises whether any land Is included within one holding, 

the decision thereof shall rest with the Commissioners at a meeting; 

(b) the Commissioners at a meeting shall determine what class of owner- 

ship shall be accepted as the test for determining whether lands 
within a municipality are held under one title or agreement. 

130. Assessment In case of land or building sub-divided into separate shares. — 
If, during the currency of any period prescribed by sub-section (1) of section 137, 
the ownership of any land or building or portion thereof is subdivided into 
separate shares the Commissioners may on the application of any of the co-owners, 
after giving the other co-owners an opportunity to be heard, divide the assess- 
ment of such land, building or portion in the following manner, namely: — 

(i) if the ownership be subdivided into two or more shares without separate 

allotments, or if as the result of such subdivision there is a separate 
allotment of such land, building or portion into two or more separate 
portions, which are not entirely independent, the Commissioners may, 
if they think fit, apportion the assessment among the shareholders 
according to the value of their respective shares without assigning 
any separate number; 

(ii) if, as the result of such subdivision, there are separate allotments of 

such land, building or portion and, if such allotments are made entire- 
ly independent and capable of separate enjoyment but not in con- 
formity with the provisions of this Act or of any rules or by-laws 
made thereunder relating to buildings, the Commissioners may, if they 
think fit, assess such portions separately after assigning to them 
separate numbers: 

Provided that by such separate assessment the total assessment for the 
entire premises shall not be increased; 

(ill) if such separated portions of such land, building or portion are, or are 
made, entirely independent and capable of separate enjoyment In 
conformity with the provisions of this Act or of any rules or by-laws 
made thereunder, relating to buildings, the Commissioners shall assess 
each portion separately by assigning a separate number thereto: 

Provided that by, such separate assessment the total assessment for the 
entire premises shall not be increased: 

Provided also that such apportionment or separation of the numbers and 
assessment, as the case may be, shall remain in force and the rate 
shall be levied accordingly until the expiration of the said period, 

131. Assessment In case of land or building being amalgamated. — If any land 
or building, bearing two or more municipal numbers, or portions thereof, be amal- 
gamated Into or more new premises, the Commissioners shall assess them on 
amalgamation after assigning to them on= or more numbers, as the case may be: 

Provided that no assessment on amalgamation of premises shall be made by 
the Commissioners unless there is a cause for the revaluation of any such premises 
except on an application being made to them by the owner or owners thereof In 
which case such assessment, If made, shall remain in force for the unexpired 
period of valuation: 

Provided also that the total assessment on amalgamation shall not be greater 
than the sum of the previous assessments of the several premises amalgamated. 

132. Taxes by whom payable. — Except as otherwise provided by this Act, any 
rate which is assessed on the annual value of a holding shall be payable by the 

owner of the holding. 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 1 , 1883 IO 75 


133. Preparation of valuation list. — -When it has been decided to impose any 
rate to be assessed on the annual value of holdings, the assessor, after making 
.such inquiries as may be necessary, shall determine the annual value of all hold- 
ings within the municipality in the manner provided in this chapter, and shall 
enter such value in a valuation list. 

134. Returns required for ascertaining annual value. — The assessor, in order to 
prepare the valuation list, may, whenever he thinks fit, by notice require the 
■owners or occupiers of all holdings to furnish him within one week with true and 
correct returns if the rent or annual value thereof and a true and correct descrip- 
tion of the holdings containing such particulars as the assessor may direct, and 
the assessor, or any person authorized by him in writing in that behalf, may 
enter, inspect and measure any such holding at any time between sunrise and 
Bun set; 

Provided that at least twenty-four hours’ previous notice of the Intention to 
enter, inspect and measure any holding shall be given to the occupier thereof, 
unless he waives his right to such notice. 

135. Determination of percentage of rate on holdings. — Subject to the provi- 
sions of this Act, the Commissioners, at a meeting to be held before the close of 
the year next preceding the year to which the rate will apply shall determine the 
percentage on the valuation of holdings at which any rate on the annual value of 
holdings shall be levied and the percentage so fixed shall remain In force until 
the Commissioners at a meeting shall determine some other percentage on the 
valuation of holdings at which the rate will be levied from the beginning of the 
next year. 

Provided that, when this Act is first extended to any place, the first rate or 
rates shall be levied from the beginning of the quarter next after that in which 
'the percentage has been fixed by the Commissioners at a meeting; 

Provided further that, where the amount standing to the credit of the Com- 
missioners in the Municipal Fund in any municipality Is, in the opinion Of the 
'State Government, insufficient to meet the liabilities of the Commissioners, no 
•decrease shall be made in the percentage of any rate levied by them without the 
previous sanction of the State Government. 

138. Preparation of assessment list. — As soon as possible after the percentage 
at which the rate or rates shall be levied for the next year has been determined 
under section 135, the Commissioners shall cause to be prepared an assessment 
list, which shall contain the following particulars and any others which the 
Commissioners may think proper to include — 

(a) the name of the street in which the holding is situated: 

r(b) the number of the holding on the register; 

<c) a description of the holding; 

Ld) the annual value of the holding; 

fe) the name of the owner; 

(f) the amount of rate payable for the year (each rate to be shown separate- 
ly); 

fg) the amount of quarterly instalment; 

(h) if the holding is exempted from assessment, a note to that effect. 

137, Revision and duration of the list.-— (1) A new valuation list shall unless 
otherwise ordered by the State Government be prepared, in the same manner as 
the original list, once In every five years. 

(2) Subject to any alteration or amendment made under section 138 and to 
the result of any application under section 148 every valuation and assessment 
entered In a valuation or assessment list shall be valid from the date on which 
the list takes effect in the municipality and until the first day of April next 
following the preparation of a new list. 

138. Amendment and alteration of list. — (1) The Commissioners at a meeting 
may for reasons to be recorded in writing, at any time, direct alteration or 
amendment of the assessment list — 

(a) by entering therein the name of any person or any property which in 
their opinion ought to have been entered, or any property w'hich has 



toj6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY *», l9Gl/SRAVAN t \ 7, 1883 [Part n 


become liable to taxation after the authentication of the assessment 
list under section 147; or 

(b) by substituting therein for the name of the owner of any holding the 

name of any other person who has succeeded by transfer or other- 
wise to the ownership of the holding; or 

(c) by altering the valuation of or assessment on any holding which in 

their opinion has been incorrectly valued or assessed; or 

(d) by re-valuing or re-assessing any holding, the value of which has been 

Increased by additions or alterations to buildings; or 

(dd) by altering the valuation or assessment of any holding where such 
alteration Is necessitated by the amendment of any of th© provisions 
of this Act; or 

(e) where the percentage on the annual value at which any rate is to he- 

levied has been altered by the Commissioners under the provisions of 
section 135, by making a corresponding alteration in the amount of 
rate payable in each case; or 

(f) by reducing, upon the application of the owner the valuation of any 

holding which has been wholly or partly demolished or destroyed, or 
the value of which has been diminished from any cause beyond the 
control of the owner the operation of which could not have been 
prevented with due precaution; or 

(g) by correcting any clerical or arithmetical error, 

(21 The Commissioners shall give at least one month’s notice to the recorded 
owner or owners of any alteration which the Commissioners propose to make under 
clauses (a), (b), (c) or (cl) of sub-section (1) and of the date on which tho 
alteration will be made. 

(3) The provisions of sections 148 to 151 applicable to objections shall, so far 
as may be, apply to any objection made in pursuance of a notice issued under 
sub-section (2) and to any application made under clause (f) of sub-section (1), 

(4) Every alteration inade under sub-section (1) shall be signed by the Chair- 
man, Vice-Chairman or Secretary, and subject to the result of an application 
under section 148, shall take ell’ect from the beginning of the quarter next follow- 
ing that in which the alteration was made, but the Commissioners by such altera- 
tion shall not be deemed to have made a new or revised assessment list. 

139. Conclusiveness of entries In list. — An entry in an assessment list shall he 
conclusive proof — 

"(a) for any purpose connected with a rate or rates to which the list refers, 
of the amount leviable in respect of any holding during the period tt> 
which the list relates, and 

(b) for the purpose of assessing any other municipal rate, of the annual 
value of any holding during the said period, 

140. Power to assess buildings and lands together where land Is Tet on a build- 
ing lease. — (1) If any house belongs to one owner and the land on which it stands 
as also the adjacent land if any, usually occupied therewith, belongs to another, 
the Commissioners mav treat such house and land as a single holding and assess 
them tc rates accordingly, 

(2) The total amount of the rate or rates shall be payable by the owner of 
the house, who shall thereafter be entitled to deduct from the rent v.hlch he pays 
for the land such proportion of the rate or rates so paid by him as is equal to the 
proportion which such rent hears to the annual value of the holding. 

(3) In case of dispute the Commissioners shall determine what amount the 
owners of the house and of the land shall pay respectively. 

141. Power to reduce rates In cases of excessive hardship. — Whenever, from 
the circumstances of the case, the levy of a rate or rates on any holding in the 
municipality would be productive of excessive hardship to the person liable to pay 
the same, the Commissioners at a meeting may reduce the amount payable on 
account of such holding, or may remit the same: 

Provided that such reduction or remission shall not unless renewed by th® 
Commissioners at a meeting, have effect for more than one year. 



Sec. S(i)] THE CJA/ElTE OE INDIA : JULY lid. 19U1/SRAVANTA 7. 1883 


142. Remission or refund on account of vacant holdings. — (1) When any hold- 
ing comprising of land and building has been unoccupied and unproductive of 
rent for sixty or more consecutive days the Commissioners shall remit, and if the 
rate or rates have been paid, shall refund one-half of the amount due on account 

of such period; 

Provided that — 

,(I) the person liable to pay the rate or rates or his agent has given to 
the Commissioners notice in writing of the vacancy and that the 

.application for remission or refund Is made within six months 

from the date on which such notice is delivered at the office of the 
■Commissioners; and 

<(ii) the amount of rate or rates to be remitted or refunded shall not be 

calculated from any date prior to the date of delivery of such 

notice. 

'(2.) When any such holding as aforesaid consists of separate tenements, one 
or more of which has, or have been unoccupied and unproductive of rent for any 
period of not less than sixty consecutive days, the Commissioners may, subject 
to the proviso to sub-section (1), remit such portion (if any) of the rate or rates, 
not exceeding one-half, as they may think equitable. 

(3) The burden of proving the facts entitling any person to claim relief under 
this section shall be upon him. 

(4) For the purposes of this section — 

(1) neither the presence of a caretaker nor the mere storing in one room 
of an otherwise unoccupied dwelling-house of the furniture habitually 
used In it shall constitute occupation of the house, unless such house 
is maintained as a pleasure resort or os a temporary place of resi- 
dence for a person ordinarily residing elsewhere, and 

(ii) a house shall be deemed productive of rent if let to a tenant wfio has 
a continuing right of occupation thereof whether it is actually occu- 
pied by such tenant or not. 

143. Owner to give notice of re-occupation. — Every person who is the owner 
of any holding for which a remission or refund of the rate or rates has been made 
under section 142 shall give notice of the re-occupation cf such holding within 
ten days of such re-occupation. 

144. Notice to be given to the Chairman of all transfers of title of persons 
primarily liable to payment of rates. — ■(!) Whenever the title to or over any land 
or building of any person primarily liable for the payment of rates on such pro- 
perty is transferred, both the transferer and the transferee shall, within three 
months of the registration of the deed of transfer, if it be registered, or if it be 
not registered, within three months of its execution, or, if no instrument be 
executed, within three months of the actual transfer, give notice In writing of 
such transfer to the Chairman. 

(2) Every person primarily liable for the payment of rates on any land or 
building, who transfers his title to or over such property, without giving notice 
of such transfer to the Chairman, as aforesaid, shall, unless the Commissioners 
on grounds of hardship arising out of special circumstances, otherwise direct, in 
addition to any other liability which he Incurs through such neglect, continue 
liable for the payment of all such rates from time to time payable in respect of 
the said property until he gives such notice, or until the transfer shall have been 
recorded in the municipal books. 

(3) Nothing In this section shall be held to diminish the liability of the trans- 
feree for the said rates or to affect the prior claim of the Commissioners for the 
recovery of the rates due thereupon and the Commissioners may revise the assess- 
ment list as against the transferee with effect from the date on which they are 
satisfied that the transfer was made. 

144A, Persons succeeding to lands or buildings to give notice to the Chairman, — 

Every person succeeding to any land or building by inheritance shall within three 
months from the date of such succession give notice in writing of such succession 
to the Chairman and the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 144 shall apply 
mutatls mutandis to such a case. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1161 /SR. W ANA 7, 1883 |Part II 


IO 78 


General provisions relating to assessment 

145. Appointment of assessors of municipal rates. — (1) The State Govern- 
ment shall prepare a list of persons qualified in its opinion to be appointed as 
municipal assessors. 

(2) When a new valuation list is to be prepared for any municipality the 
Commissioners at a meeting shall appoint from the list referred to in sub-section 

(1) a person as an assessor for the purposes of this chapter, on such salary and 
with such establishment as may be fixed by them with trie approval of the State 
Government. 

(3) Notwithstanding anything in this section the State Government may, at 
the request of the Commissioners at a meeting, appoint, or authorise the Com- 
missioners at a meeting to appoint, any person or persons approved by the State 
Government with or without salary to prepare the valuation list of such munici- 
pality. 

146. Appointment of assessor by State Government in case of default. — (1) If 

the Commissioners fail to comply with the provisions of section 145 within such 
period as the State Government may fix, the State Government may appoint for 
such period as may be necessary a suitable person from amon^ the persons* 
included in the said list to prepare the valuation list of such municipality. 

(2) If there is no person for the time being available for appointment as 
assessor from among the persons included in the list referred to in sub-section 

(1) of section 145, the Commissioners at a meeting, or in case of default by the. 
Commissioners, the State Government, may appoint any person approved by the 
State Government on such salary, for such period, and with such establishment 
as the Commissioners with the approval of the State Government, or the State 
Government in the case of default, may determine. 

(3) An assessor appointed by the State Government under this section shall 
be paid monthly out of the Municipal Fund such salary and cost of establish- 
ment as may be fixed by the State Government. 


147. Publication of notice of assessments.— (1) When the assessment list 
mentioned in section 136 has been prepared or revised, the Chairman shall sign 
the same and shall cause it to be deposited in the office of the Commissioners and 
shall give public notice of the place where the list may he inspected. 

(2) In all cases in which any property is for the first time assessed or the 
assessment is increased, the Chairman shall also give notice thereof to the owner 
or occupier of the property, if known. 

148. Application for review. — (1) Any person who is dissatisfied with the 
amount assessed upon him or with the valuation or assessment of any holding, or 
who disputes his occupation of any holding, or his liability to be assessed, may 
apply to the Commissioners to review the amount of assessment or valuation or 
to exempt him from the assessment of rate. 

(2) No such application shall be received after one month from the date of 
publication of the notice required under sub-section (1) of section 147, or the 
service of the notice required under sub-section (2) of that section or after the 
expiration of one month from the date of service of the first notice of demand 
for payment at the rate in respect of which the application is made, whichever 
period shall last expire. 

149. Hearing and determination of applications by committee. — (1) Every 
application presented under section 148 shall be heard and determined by 0 com- 
mittee consisting of the Chairman and not less than two and not more than four 
Commissioners appointed by the Commissioners at a meeting: 

Provided that in the case of a municipality which is divided into wards' under 
section 20, no Commissioner of the ward from which the application is made 
shall take part in the hearing or determination of such application. 

(2) The committee shall give notice to the applicant of the time and place at 
which his application will be heard, and after taking such evidence and making 
such inquiry as it may deem necessary, in the presence of the objector or his 
agent if he appears, pass such orders as it thinks fit in respect of the application- 

(3) The quorum shall be fixed by the Commissioners at a meeting. 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


IO 79 


(4) The decision in such cases of the committee, or of a majority of the mem- 
bers present, shall be Anal. 

( 5 ) In ease of equality of votes, the person presiding shall have a second or 
casting vote. 

149A, Municipal Assessment Tribunal. — ( 1 ' Th? State Government may, by 
notification, appoint a Municipal Assessment Tribunal consisting of such person 
or persons as may be specified in the notification for the purpose of hearing appli- 
cations for review presented under section 148. 

(2) When a Municipal Assessment Tribunal is appointed under sub-sect.ion 

(1), all applications presented under section 148 shall, notwithstanding anything 
contained in section 149, be heard by the Tribunal and the Tribunal shall pass 
such orders in each case as it thinks fit. 

(3) An order of the Tribunal under sub-section (2) shall be final. 

150. Assessment to be questioned only under Act.— No objection shall be taken 
to any assessment or valuation in any other manner than in this Act is provided 
and no valuation or assessment made under this Act and no order passed under 
sub-section (4) or sub-section ( 6 ) of section 149 or sub-section (2) of section 
149A shall be called in question in any Court. 

151. Payment ol rate how affected by objections to valuation. — (1) When an 

objection to an assessment or valuation has been made under section 148 the rate 
shall, pending the final determination of the objection, be paid on the previous 
assessment or valuation. 

121 If, when the objection has been finally determined, the previous assess- 
ment or valuation is altered, then- 

la) any sum paid in excess shall be refunded or allowed to be set off against 
any present or future demand of the Commissioners under this Act; 
and 

(b) any deficiency shall be deemed to be an arrear of the rate and recover- 
able as such. 

Recovery of taxes 

152. Office hours for payment of taxes. — By notification to be posted up in their 
office, the Commissioners shall declare at what hours of each day (not being 
a Sunday or other recognised holiday) the office shall be open for the receipt 
of money and the transaction of business. 

153. Amount of tax payable, and tax to be paid In advance. — ( 1 ) Unless the 
amount entered in such lists is subsequently altered by the Commissioners as 
provided in this Act, the amount entered in the lists the notice relating to which 
is published under section 147, shall be deemed to be the amount due from any 
person on account of any rate on the annual value of holdings. In case of such 
subsequent alteration the amount to which the assessment or rating is so altered 
shall be deemed to be the amount due. 

12) Such rate shall be payable in quarterly instalments and every such instal- 
ment shall be deemed to be due on the first day of the quarter in r-spect of which 
it is payable. 

154. Receipts to be given. — For all sums paid on account of any tax, toll, fee 
or rate under this Act a receipt stating the amount and the tax, toll fee or rate 
on account of which it is paid shall be given, signed by the tax-collector, or by 
some other officer authorized by the Commissioners to grant such receipts. 

155. Bill and notice of demand to be presented, — (1) As soon as may be after 

any sum has become due on account of any tax, toll, fee or rate, the Com- 
missioners shall cause to be presented to the person liable a bill for the sum due. 

(2) Every such bill shall contain a statement of the period and of the tax, toll, 
fee or rate for which the charge is made, 

(3) The Commissioners at a meeting may by a resolution direct that a rebate 
of three and one-eighth per cent, of the amount of any bill shall be allowed if 
payment of the amount for which the bill has been presented under sub-section 
( 1 ) is made into the municipal office within thirty days from such presentation, 
and thereupon rebate shall be allowed accordingly. 



1080 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 1 % IQflJySRAVANA 7, 1883 [Part n 


(4) If the said amount is not paid within thirty days from the date of presenta- 
tion of the bill, a notice of demand in the prescribed form shall be served on the 
person liable, Such notice shall be signed by the Chairman, Vice-Chairman or 
any officer authorised by the Commissioners in that behalf and shall be served 
by a person authorised to receive payment: 

Provided that no charge shall be made in respect of the service of such notice. 

(5) On the amount of a bill remaining unpaid after its presentation, interest 
shall be payable' at the rate of one pie pci rupee per mensem on the said amount 
from the day next after the expiry of thirty days from the commencement of the 
quarter following that in which the bill is presented. 

Explanation . — In calculating the Interest payable under this sub-section, a 
fraction of a rupee in the amount of the bill on which interest is to be calculated 
shall — 

(a) where it is less than eight annas, be left out of account, and 

(b) where it is not less than eight annas, be taken as one rupee. 

150. Levy by distress on failure to pay tax, toll, fee of rate. — If any person, 
does not, within thirty days of the service of a notice of demand under sub- 
section (4) of section 155, pay the sum due, either to the Commissioners at their 
office, or to some person authoriezd by them to receive the money, or show to the 
Commissioners sufficient cause for not paying the same the amount of the arrear 
due, along with interest and with costs according to the prescribed scale of 

fees, may, at any time, be levied by the distress and sale of any movable property 

belonging to the defaulter, except ploughs, plough-cattle, tools or implements of 
agriculture or trade, wherever found, or of any movable property belonging to any 
other person, subject to the same exceptions, which may be found within the 
holding in respect of which such defaulter is liable to such tax, toll, fee or rate: 

Provided thffi;, when the holding in respect of which the default is committed 
is a place of business and the movable property distrained is shown to the satis- 
faction of the Commissioners to have been left there for repairs or safe custody 
in the ordinary course of business, it shall be released: 

Provided also that, If the said property or any part thereof belongs to any 
person other than the defaulter, the defaulter shall be liable to indemnify the 
owner thereof for any damage he may sustain by reason of such distress, or by 
reason of any payment he may make to avoid such distress or any sale under the 
same. 


167. Distress how to be made. — (1) Every warrant of distress and sale under 
section 166 shall be issued by the Commissioners, and shall be in the prescribed 
form. 

(2) When a warrant of distress is issued it shall not be discharged before it 
in executed excgpt upon payment of the sum due together with one-fourth of 
the costs referred to in section 156. 

(3) Distress shall be made by actual seizure of movable property, and thq 
officer charged with the execution of the warrant shall be responsible for the due 
custody thereof. 

(4) Such officer shall make in the presence of two witnesses an inventory 
of all movable property seized under the warrant and shall give not less than ten 
days previous notice of the sale, and of the time and place thereof by beat of 
drum, in the municipality or ward in which the property is seized, and by serving 
on the defaulter a notice in the prescribed form: 

Provided that. If the property is of a perishable nature, it may be sold at once 
with the consent of the defaulter or without such consent at any time after the 
expiry of six hours from the seizure. 

158, Officer may break open door. — The officer charged with the execution of 
the warrant may, under the special order of the Chairman or Vice-Chairman, 
between sunrise and sunset, break open any outer or inner door or window of a 
house, In order to make the distress, if he has reasonable ground for believing 
that such house contains any movable property belonging to the defaulter, ana 
if, after notification of his authority and purpose and demand of admittance duly 
made, he cannot otherwise obtain admittance: 



i>EC, 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: JULY 29. I9G1/SRAVANA 7, 1883 I08l 


Provided that he shall not enter or break open the door of any room appro- 
priated to women, except after reasonable notice and opportunity given to enable 
the women to remove to some part of the premises where their privacy may be 
preserved. 

159. Sale how to be conducted, — (1) If the sum due be not paid with costs 
before the time fixed for the sale, or if the warrant be not discharged or sus- 
pended by the Commissioners, the movable property seized shall be sold by 
auction, at the time and place specified, in the most public manner possible, and 
the proceeds shall be applied in discharge of the arrears and costs. 

(2) The surplus sale-proceeds (if any) shall be credited to the Municipal Fund, 
and may be paid on demand to any person who establishes his right to the satis- 
faction of the Commissioners or in a court of competent jurisdiction. 

(3) The tax-collector or other officer authorized by the Commissioners in that 
behalf shall make a return of all such sales to the Commissioners in the prescribed 
form. 

160. Sale of property beyond limits of municipality. — If the Commissioners are 
unable to recover under section 159 of the sum due with costs, the Magistrate may, 
on the application of the Commissioners, issue his warrant to any officer of his 
court for the distress and sale of any movable property or effects belonging to the 
defaulter within any other part of the jurisdiction of the Magistrate, or for the 
distress and sale, of any movable property belonging to the defaulter within the 
jurisdiction of any other Magistrate exercising jurisdiction within West Bengal, 
and such other Magistrate shall endorse the warrant so issued, and cause it to be 
executed and the amount, if levied, to be remitted to the Magistrate issuing the 
warrant, who sh.aH remit the same to the Commissioners. 

161. Commissioners to keep account of distresses and sales. — The Com- 
missioners shall cause a regular account to he kept of all distresses levied, and 
sales made, for the recovery of taxes, lolls, fees and rates under this Act. 

162. Power to Commissioners to apply certificate procedure and also to bring 
suits. — (1) After a defaulter has been proceeded against under the foregoing pro- 
visions of this Chapter unsuccessfully or with only partial success, the sum due 
may be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue under the provisions of 
the Tripura Land Revenue and Land Reforms Act, 1960 (43 of 1960), 

(2) Instead of proceeding by distress and sale or by certificate as prescribed 
In sub-section (1) Or in the event of failure in their case to recover the whole or 
any part of the. sum due, the Commissioners may sue the person liable to pay 
the same in any court of competent jurisdiction, 

163. Irrecoverable taxes. — (1) The Commissioners at a meeting may order to 
be struck off the books the amount of any tax, toll, fee, rate or other money due 
under this Act which may appear to them to be irrecoverable, 

(2) In passing an order under sub-scction (1) the Commissioners shall in each 
case briefly record the reasons therefor and a statement of the steps taken to 
recover the amount ordered to be struck off. 

164. Certain persons prohibited from purchasing at sales. — All Commissioners, 
municipal officers and servants, and all chaukidars, constables and other officers 
of police are prohibited from purchasing any property at any sale made under 
this chapter. 


Recovery in special cases 

165. Recovery from occupier of tax due from non-resident owner and deduction 
from rent. — If the sum' due from the owner of any holding remains unpaid after 
the notice of demand has been duly served, and such owner is not resident within 
the municipality or the place of abode of such owner is unknown, the same may 
be recovered from the occupier for the time being of such holding, who may 
deduct from the next and following payments of his rent, the amount which may 
be so paid by or recovered from him: 

Provided that no arrear of rate shall be so recovered from the occupier of 
any holding if it has remained due from the owner thereof for more then one 
year or if it is duo on account of any period during which such occupier was not 
in occupation ol such holding: 



1082 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 3D, IMlySll WANA 7, 1883 


[Pj»rt II 


Provided alao that if any such holding is occupied in severalty by more than 
one person, the sum recovered from any one of such persons shall not exceed 
such amount, as shall bear to the total sum due the same proportion as the value 
of the part of the holding in the occupation of such person bears to the entire 
value of the holding. 

165A. Recovery of tax from unauthorised occupier of holding. — Where any 
holding is in the occupation of any person not being the owner or occupier, as 
defined in section 3, of such holding the amount of any tax, toll, fee, rate or other 
money due under this Act and assessed on the annual value of such holding may 
be recovered from such person as if he were an occupier of such holding as 
defined in clause (36) of section 3: 

Provided that no sum shall be recovered from such person if it is not due in 
respect of the period during which such person has been in occupation of the 
holding: 

Provided further that the assessment or recovery made under this section shall 
not by itself be deemed to confer upon such person any right or title as the 
lawful occupier of the holding. 

106. Liability of purchaser for vendor’s share of rate. — The purchaser of any 
holding or part of a Holding in respect of which any sum is due at the time of 
purchase on account of any rate under this Act shall, subject to the provision 
of sub-section (2) of section 144, be liable for the said sum 

167. Rate to be charged on holdings.. — The sum due on account of any rate 
under this Act from any person in respect of any holding shall, subject to the 
prior payment of the land revenue (if any) due to the Government or of the rent 
(if any) due to a landlord under the tenancy law for the time being in force there- 
upon, be a first charge upon the said holding. 

The tax on carriages, and on horses and other animals 

168. Tax on carriages, horses and other animals. — (1) When it has been deter- 
mined that a tax on carriages, and on horses and other animals mentioned in 
Schedule III shall be imposed, the Commissioners at a meeting shall, subject l<> 
the provisions of section 169, make an order that the owner of every carnage, 
and every horse and other animals of the kind mentioned in the said schedule, 
which is kept or is used in the ordinary course of business within, or which is 
let for hire within or without the municipality, and is used in the ordinary course 
of business within it, shall pay the tax at the rate fixed under sub-section (2) in 
respect of such carriage, horse or other animal and they shall cause such order 
to be published in the manner prescribed. 

(2) Such order shall be published at least one month before the beginning of 
the half-year in which such tax will first take effect; and shall specify at what 
rates, not exceeding the rates given in the said schedule, such tax shall be levied. 

(3) Such tax shall not be imposed on — 

(a) horses or ponies belonging to officers doing regimental duty at the rate 

of one animal for each officer; 

(b) * 

(c) carriages or animals belonging to the Central Government, the Tripura 

Territorial Council or to the Commissioners or for keeping which for 
the execution of their duty an allowance is made bv the Central 
Government, the Tripura Territorial Council or by the Commissioners 
to any of their officers. 

(d) animals used by, or exclusively for the purposes of, any regiment: 

(e) horses or ponies used by police-officers, at the rate of not more than one 

for each officer; 

(f) carriages the wheels of which do not exceed twenty-four inches m 

diameter; and 

(g*) carriages or animals kept for sale by any bona fide dealer in such 
carriages or animals, and not used for any other purpose. 

169. Powers to exempt carriages or class of carriages from taxation. — In 
making an order under section 168 or by a subsequent order, the Commissioners 
at a meeting may exempt from the tax imposed under section 108. anv carriage 
or class of carriages mentioned in Schedule III 



Sfc. Sp)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


1083. 


170. Duration of tax.— The order of the Commissioners imposing a tax under 
section 168 shall continue in force until rescinded and the tax shall be levied 
at the rates specified in the order published as aforesaid, unless and until the- 
Commissioners at a meeting held not less than fifteen days before the end of thp 
year, make and publish an order specifying any different rates at which the tax. 
shall be payable for the ensuing year. 

171. Half-yearly statement of liability and payment of tax.— (1) In any munici- 
pality in which a tax has been imposed under section 168 the owner of every 
carriage, horse, and other onimul mentioned in Schedule III shall, within the 
first month of each half-year, forward to the Commissioners, a statement In 
writing, signed by him. containing a description of the carriages, horses and other 
animaFs liable to the tax. for which he is bound to take out a license. 

(21 Such owner shall, at the same time, pay to the Commissioners such sum. 
as shall be payable by him for the current half-year for the carriages, horses anck 
other animals specified in such statement, according to the rates specified in any 
order for the time being in force under section 168 

172. Proportionate tax on carriages, etc., acquired during the half-year, — If 

any person acquires possession, at any time after the commencement of any half- 
year, of any carriage, horse or other animal mentioned in Schedule III, in respect 
of which no license has been given for such half-year, he shall forward a state- 
ment as required under section 171 within one month of the date on vhich he 
may have acquired possession thereof and shall pay such amount of the tax as 
shall bear the same proportion to the whole tax for the half-year as the un- 
expired portion of the half-year bears to the half-year: and such amount shall 
be calculated from the date on which such person may have acquired possession 
as aforesaid. 

173. Grant of license on payment of tax. — (1) On receiving the amount of the 
tax due the Commissioners, or some person authorised by them, in that behalf, 
shall give to the person paying the same a license for the several carriages, horses 
and other animals for the period in respect of which the amount is received 

(2) Such license shall be for the current half-year and no longer. 

174. Liability in absence of owner. — Whenever the owner of any carriage, 
horse or other animal who is liable to pay the said tax is not resident within the 
limits of the municipality to the Commissioners of which the tax is due, the 
person in whose immediate possession the carriage, horse or other animal is for 
the time being kept shall pay the tax and take out a license for the same. 

175. Carriages, etc., not to be kept without a license. — No person shall keep, or 
he in possession of any carriage, horse or other animal without the license 
required under this Act: 

Provided that no carriage which has not been brought into use or which is 
so damaged as in the opinion of the Commissioners to be unfit for use shall bo 
liable to the tax. 

176. Composition with livery stable-keepers. — The Commissioners at their dis- 
cretion may compound for any period not exceeding one year with livery stable- 
keepers and other persons keeping carriages, horses or other animals for hire 
for a certain sum to be paid for the carriages, horses or other animals so kept 
by such persons, in lieu of the tax at the rates specified in any order made by 
the Commissioners under sections 168 and 170. 


177. Preparation of list of persons licensed. — The Commissioners shall, from 
time to time, cause to be prepared and entered in a book, to be kept by them 
and to be open to the inspection of any person interested therein, a list of the 
persons to whom during the then current half-year a license has been given, 
and of the carriages, horses and other animals in respect of which they have paid 
the tax, 

178. Power to Inspect stable, etc,, and to summon persons liable to the pay- 
ment of the tax. — (1) The Commissioners, or any person authorized by them in 
this behalf, may, at any time between sunrise and sunset, enter and inspect any 
stable or coach house, or any place wherein they may have reason to believe that 
there is any carriage, horse or other animal liable to th° tax, for which a license 
has not been taken out. 



1084 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, IJ01/$SAVANA 7, 188.) [Part It 

— — — - ‘* 33 ^ - ~ — ' — - ■ — 

(2) The Commissioners may summon any person whom they reason to 

believe to be liable to the payment of any such tax, or any servant or fifoeh person, 
and may examine such person or servant as to the number and dcsciljitien of 
the carriages, horses and other animals in respect of which such person is liable 
to be taxed. 

179. Refund of tax In certain cases. — On proof being given to the satisfaction of 
the Commissioners that a carriage, horse or other animal for which a license 
has been taken out for any half-year has cc-ased to be kept or to be used within 
the municipality during the course of such half-year, the Commissioners shall 
order a refund of so much of the tax for the half-year as shall bear the same 
proportion to the whole tax for the half-year as the period during which such 

-carriage, horse or other animal has not bean kept or used in the municipality 
bears to the half-year; but no such refund shall be allowed unless notice be 
given to the Commissioners within one month of the time when such keeping or 
use of such carriage, horse or other animal ceased, and, except for special cauBe 
• shown, the Commissioners shall pass no order for refund until after the close of 
the half-year in respect of which the refund is claimed. 

180. Prohibition of double-tax, — Nothing in sections 168 to 179 shall be deemed 
to authorise the levy of more than one tax for the same period in respect of any 

-carriage, horse "or other animal which is used in the ordinary course of business 
In more than one municipality. 

In such cases the tax shall be levied by the Commissioners of the municipality 

- within the jurisdiction of which the carriage, horse or other animal is kept. 

181. Meaning of “used In the ordinary course of business". — A carriage, horse 

- or other animal shall be deemed to be used in the ordinary course of business 
within the meaning of section 168, if it is used on business on an average thrice a 

- week. 


The tax on professions, trades and callings 

182. Tax on professions, trades and callings. — When it has been determined 
that a tax shall be imposed on professions, trades and callings, every person who 
-exercises in the municipality, either by himself or by an agent or representative, 
any of the professions, trades or callings, specified in Schedule IV, shall take out 
a half-yearly license and pay the tax imposed under clause (f) of sub-section (1) 
-of section 123. 


Explanation . — Manufacture or storage of goods in a municipality for the 
purpose of carrying on business outside the municipality shall be 
deemed to be carrying on a trade or calling within the municipality. 

The registration of carts 

183. Registration and numbering of carts. — (1) When it has been determined 
'that a fee on registration of carts shall be imposed, the Commissioners at a 
meeting may make and publish an order that every cart, which is kept or is used 
In the ordinary course or business within the municipality, shall be registered by 
~the Commissioners with the name and residence of the owner, and shall bear the 
number of registration in such manner as the said Commissioners shall direct: 

Provided always that such order shall be published at least one month before 
the beginning of "the half-year in which such order for registration shall be 
■ enforced. 


(2) This section shall not apply to — 

(a) carts which arc the property of the Central Government, the Tripura 

Territorial Council or of the Commissioners; 

(b) carts Which are kept without the limits of the municipality, and are 

only temporarily and casually used within such limits; and 

(c) ♦ * * * * 

(3) The registration of carts shall be made and the numbers assigned yearly 
or half-yearly on such days as the Commissioners shall notify. 


184. Fee for registration.— The fee payable for each registration under section 
183 for every cart shall be such sum not exceeding six runees as the Com- 
missioners at a meeting may fix from time to time, if the registration has effect 
for one year and shall be half of this sum if the registration has effect for half 
a year. 



Stc. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 l0 85 


185. Power to increase fees for carts with narrow tyres and rims. — Notwith- 
standing anything contained in section 184, the Commissioners at a meeting may, 
with the sanction of the State Government, increase by any amount not exceeding 
fifty per cent, the fee to be paid for registration of any cart any wheel of which 
has a run or tyre of less than two inches in width. 

186. Proportionate payment of fee. — Any person becoming possessed of any 
cart v hich has not been registered for the then current period of registration shall 
register the same within one month from the date on which he has become 
possessed thereof, and the Commissioners shall grant registration in any such 
case on pavmcnt of such amount of the fee as bears the same proportion to the 
whole fc e for the current period of registration as the unexpired portion of the- 
current period of registration bears to the whole of such period; and such fee 
shall be calculated from the date on which such person shall have become- 
possessed as aforesaid. 

187. Transfer of ownership. — When the ownership of any registered cart Is 
transferred within any period of registration, it shall be registered anew within 
one month of the transfer in the name of the person to whom it has been trans- 
ferred, and a fee not exceeding four annas shall be paid for every such re- 
registration. 

188. Carts not to be kept without being registered and without number. — 

No person shall keep, or be in possession of a cart not duly registered as required 
bv this Act, nor shall any person, being the owner or driver of any cart, fail tO' 
affix thereto the registration number as required by this Act. 

189. Seizure and sale of unregistered carts. — (1) If any person. owns or keeps 
any cart without registering the same as required by this Act, the Commissioners, 
or any person authorized by them in this behalf may seize and detain such cart 
(provided the same be not employed at the time of seizure in the conveyance of 
any passengers or goods) together with the animals, if any, drawing the same, 
and all police-officers are required, on the application of the Commissioners, or 
of any person duly authorized by them in that behalf, to assist in the said seizure. 

(2) After such seizure the Commissioners shall forthwith issue a notice Itt 
w-riting thatjifter the expiration of ten days they will sell such cart and animals, 
if any, by auction at such place as they may state in the notice; and, if any 
registration fee, together with the cost arising from such seizure and custody, 
remains unpaid for ten days after the issue of such notice, the Commissioners 
may sell the properly seized for payment of the said fee. and of all expenses, 
occasioned by such non-payment, seizure, custody and sale. 

(3) The surplus sale-proceeds (if any) shall be credited to the Municipal) 
Fund, and may be paid on demand to any person who establishes his right to. 
the satisfaction of the Commissioners or in a court of competent jurisdiction: 

Provided that, if at any time before the sale is concluded, the person whose 
cart and. animals, if any, have been seized tenders to the Commissioners, or to 
the person authorized by them to sell the property, the amount of all the expenses 
incurred and the registration fee payable by him, the Commissioners shall, 
forthwith release the property so seized. 

(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section the surplus of the- 
sale-proceeds of a cart and animals, if any, seized under this section, may be 
devoted to the payment of any fine imposed for a breach of the provisions of 
section 188; and any property which has been seized under this section may be 
sold for the realization of any such fine 

190. Carts used or registered in more than one municipality. — (1) Nothing in- 
sections 183 to 189 shall be deemed to authorize the levy of more than one fee- 
tor the same period In respect of any cart which is used in the ordinary course- 
of business in more than one municipality. 

(2' When carts not kept within any municipality are so used in more than 
one municipality, the State Government may, if it thinks fit, apportion between 
all such municipalities the registration fees paid under this Act in respect of 
such carts 

(3) Where a cart is registered under this Act in more than one municipality,, 
the Commissioners of the municipality within which the cart is kept shall have 
a right to levy the registration fee in preference to the Commissioners of anv 
other municipality: 



.io86 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY Id, 1%1/SRAVANA 7, 1383 


[Part II 


Provided that such right is claimed by notice to the other municipality or 
municipalities concerned within two months of the date on which the fee becomes 
due. 

(4) Where any dispute arises between the Commissioners of any two or more 
municipalities regarding any claim made under sub-section (3) of this section 
the matter shall be referred to the decision of the State Government and the 
decision of the State Government shall be final. 

191, Meaning of “used In the ordinary course of business”. — A cart shall be 
deemed to be used in the ordinary course of business, within the meaning of 
sections 183 to 190; if it is used on business on an average twice a week. 


Tolls on ferries 

192. Ferries may be declared to be municipal,— The Commissioners may, with 
the sanction of the State Government, declare that any feiry not being vested 
in any other local authority within or adjacent to the limits of the municipality 
is a municinal ferry, and the profits derivable therefrom shall thenceforward be 
curried to the credit of the Municipal Fund; 

Provided that due compensation shall be made by the Commissioners to any 
person for the loss which he may have sustained in consequence of such ferry 
being declared to be a municipal ferry. 

The amount of compensation due in such cases shall be ascertained and 
awarded by the District Magistrate in the following manner: — 

The compensation shall be calculated upon an estimate of the annual net 
profit actually realised by the person entitled to compensation under 
the proviso from such ferry on an average of the five years next 
preceding such declaration, and shall in no case exceed the amount 
of fifteen time such net annual profit. 

193. Duties of Commissioners In regard) to such ferries. — Every municipal 
ferry shall be maintained by the Commissioners, and they shall do all things 
necessary to provide for the safety and convenience of travellers, and the safety 
of property to be conveyed on such ferry. 

194. Rate of tolls to be established and published — When it has been deter- 
mined to impose tolls on municipal ferries, the Commissioners at a meeting shall 
from time to time make and publish an order specifying the ferries and, with 
the sanction of the District Magistrate, the rates at which such toll shall be 
levied and shall cause a copy of such order to be permanently affixed on some 
'conspicuous place at the ferry ghat. 

195. When persons crossing river not liable to toll.. — No person shall be liable 
to pay any toll for crossing any river or stream at or near a municipal ferry, if 
he crosses the river or stream m a boat or other appliance which is kept for the 
personal use of such person. 

196. Cancellation of ferry lease, etc. — Every lease of a ferry given by the 
Commissioners as hereinafter provided shall be liable to be cancelled at once, if 
it shall appear to the Commissioners at a meeting that the lessee has failed to 
make due provision for the convenience or safety of the public within fifteen 
•days after being required to do so by a notice in writing from the Commissioners. 

On the caneelmcnt of a lease the Commissioners may take possession of all 
boats and other appliances which have been used by the lessee in the working 
of the ferry; and may either retain the same permanently on payment of a fair 
price to the proprietor, or may retain them for such time as may be necessary, 
not exceeding three months, until they can make arrangements for such other 
boats and appliances as may be necessary, in which case the Commissioners 
shall pay a fair sum to the owners for the use of the said boats and appliances; 

Provided that within a week of taking such possession, the Commissioners 
shall be bound to give notice to the said lessee of their intention to retain the 
said boats and appliances permanently, or for a period to be specified in the 
notice. 

197. Toll must be prepaid. — Any collector or lessee of tolls, or his agent, may 
refuse to convey any person or goods across a municipal ferry until the proper 



Sec 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA JULY 29 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


1067 


toll has been paid, and may require any person who refuses to pay the toll to 
leave the boat or appliance and to remove his goods from it 

198 Keeping of unauthorized ferry-boat — No person shall keep a ferry-boat 
whether or not plying foi hire within a distance of two miles above or below 
any municipal ferry without the previous sanction— 

( I ) of the Commissioners, if he plies within the limits of the municipality; 

( II ) of the Magistrate of the district, if he plies without such limits, or 

( III ) of the Magistrate of the district and the Commissioners, if one of the 

two banks between which he plies is within and the other bank Is 
without, such limits 

* • • * * * 

198A Power of Commissioners to make rules as to ferries— The Com- 
missioners at a meeting with the sanction o 1 the State Government may make 
rules in all matters connected with the pui poses ot section 193, and for other 
matters relating to the management and leasing out of femes 

Tolls on bridges 

199 Existing toll-bars — The State Government may, with the consent of 
Commissioners at a meeting, make over to the Commissioners any existing toll- 
bar on a bridge within the limits of the municipality to be administered by them 
until the State Government shall otherwise direct; every toll-bar, wnile so 
administered shall be deemed to be a municipal toll-bar, and the profits derivable 
therefrom, or such paits thereof as shall be agreed upon between the State 
Government and the Commissioners, shall be carried to the credit of the 
Municipal Fund, 

200 Commissioners may establish toll-bar. — The Commissioners at a meeting, 
with the sanction of the State Government, may establish a toll bai and levy tolls 
on any bridge which they may have constructed after the commencement of 
the Tripura State Municipal Act, 1349 T E , or at any place within the munici- 
pality adjacent to such bridge at which tolls may conveniently be levied on 
carriages, carts and animals passing over such budge and the piofits derivable 
therefrom shall be carried to the credit oi the Municipal Fund 

Provided that no such toll-bar shall be established or tolls levied, otherwise 
than for the purpose of recovering the expenses incurred in constructing such 
bridge and in maintaining such bridge m lepair for the five years next after the 
construction thereof, together with interest on such expenses as provided In 
section 201 


201 Commissioners to publish expenses, etc, of toll bars— Whenever a toll- 
bar shall have b n en established, and tolls shall be levied, as provided m section 
200, the Commissioners shall at the end of each year publish, by causing it to be 
posted up at their office, an abstract account showing — 

( I ) the amount of expenses incuired in the construction of such bridge and 

m the maintenance of the same, 

( II ) the amount of interest which has accrued due thereon, at the annual 

rate of six per centum, and 

( III ) the amount which has been received from the profits of the said toll- 

bar since its establishment; 


and, as soon as such expenses and interests shall have been recovered as afore- 
brld’ge SUCh t011 tai ShaI1 be reffl0ved and to11 sha11 no ionger be levied on such 


202 Rates of tolls to be established and published —When it has been deter- 
mined that tolls shall be levied on any such bridge, the Commissioners at a 

^ t m< ; t0 tu ™> mflke publish an order, with the sanction 

of the District Magistrate, specifying rates at which such tolls shall be levied 

203 Power of collector or lessee in the case of refusal to pay toll— Any collec- 
tor or lessee of tolls may refuse to allow any person to pass through any municipal 
toll bar until the proper toll has been paid. 

,, 204 Penalty for refusing to pay or avoiding payment of toll.— No person taking 
through a toll-gate any motor vehicle, carriage, cart or animal (not exempted 
from toll) shall refuse to pay the toll, nor shall any person fraudulently avoid 



1088 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 10G1 ySRWANA 7, 1883 [Part II 


taking through a toll-gate any such motor vehicle, carriage, cart or animal with 
Intent to evade payment of the toll. 

205. In case of non-payment of toll, vehicle, etc., may be seized and sold.— 

(1) If the toll due on any motor vehicle, carriage, cart or animal is not paid on 
demand, the person authorised to collect the same may seize such motor vehicle, 
carriage, cart or animal, or any part of its load of sufficient value to defray the 
toll, and shall give immediate notice of such seizure to the Commissioners, 

(2) After such seizure the Commissioners shall forthwith issue a notice in 
writing that, after the expiration of ten days, they will sell the property seized 
by auction at such place as they may stale in the notice; and if any toll, together 
with the cost arising from such seizure and custody, remain undischarged for ten 
days after the issue of such notice, the Commissioners may sell the property 
seized for discharge of the toll, and of all expenses occasioned by such non-pay- 
pient, seizure, custody and sale. 

(3) If the load or sufficient part thereof consists of articles which are subject 
to speedy and natural decay or consists of livestock, that load or part thereof 
may forthwith be sold under orders of the Commissioners. 

(4) The surplus sale-proceeds (if any) shall be credited to the Municipal Fund, 
and may be paid on demand to any person who establishes his right to the satis- 
faction of the Commissioners or in a court of competent jurisdiction; 

Provided that, if at any time before the sale has been concluded, the peraon 
whose property has been seized shall tender to the Commissioners, or to the officer 
appointed by them to sell the property, the amount of all the expenses incurred 
and of the toll payable, the Commissioners shall forthwith release the property 
seized, > 

(5) Notwithstanding anything contained In this section, the surplus of the 
sale-proceeds of any property seized under this section may be devoted to the 
payment of any fine Imposed for contravention of section 204; and any property 
which has been seized under this section may be sold for the realisation of any 
such fine. 

206. Lease of ferry or toll-bar. — The Commissioners at a meeting may grant a 
lease — 

(a) of any municipal toll-bar for any period not exceeding three years, and 

(b) of any municipal ferry for any period not exceeding three years or with 

the sanction of the State Government for a longer period not exceed- 
ing nine years. 

207. Table of tolls to be hung up. — The Commissioners shall cause a table of 
tolls legibly written in Bengali to be hung up by the toll collector or lessee of the 
municipal ferry or toll-bar 

in some conspicuous position at each end of every municipal ferry, and 

in some conspicuous position near every municipal toll-bar so as to be easily 
read by all persons required to pay the toll. 

208 Composition In respect of tolls. — The Commissioners, or the lessee of any 
municipal ferry for toll-bar, may compound with any person for a certain sum 
to be paid by such person for himself, or for any vehicles or animals kept by 
him, in lieu of the ordinary toll payable. 

209. Exemptions.— (1) No tolls shall be paid for the passage of Government 
stores or the persons in charge of them or for the passage of stores belonging to 
the Tripura Territories Council or the persons in charge of them; 

oi of police-officers, or of any public or municipal officer on duty, or of any 
person in their custody or of any property belonging to them or In their custody, 
or of any carriage, cart or animal employed by such persons for the transport 
of such property; 

or of conservancy carts or other carriages, carts or animals belonging to the 
Commissioners or of the persons in charge of them: 

Provided that tolls shall be leviable for conveying such animais over a ferry. 



io89 


Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1888 


(2) The Commissioners or their lessees shall not be bound to allow any person 
or thing not specified in sub-section (1; to cross a ferry or to pass a tcll-gate 
without payment of the proper toll: 

Provided that the Commissioners at a meeting may from time to time exempt 
any class of persons or things not specified in sub-section (1) from payment of 
the said toll; and in granting a lease of any ferry or toll-bar may stipulate that 
any municipal servants and property and any other person or things shall be 
allowed to pass without payment of the toll. 

210. Police-officers to assist. — In all cases of resistance to the person authorised 
to collect tolls, police-officers shall assist, when required, and for the purpose 
shall have the same powers as they have in the exercise of their ordinary police 
duties. 

211. Prohibition of taking unauthorized tolls. — No person who is authorized 
under this Act to collect tolls shall demand or take any higher tolls than the tolls 
authorized under this Act. 

212. Cancellation of lease, — Any lessee of a municipal feiry or toll-bar who 
demands or lakes any higher tolls than the tolls authorized under this Act, shall, 
In addition to any other penalty to which he Is liable, be also liable to have his 
lease cancelled. 

213. * * * * * 

214. ***** 

Rules 

213 Power to make rules as to taxation. — The State Government may make 
niles— - 

( a) prescribing the qualifications of. and the procedure to be followed by, 
an assessor appointed under this Act; 

i bl prescribing the procedure to be followed by a committee appointed 
under sub-section (1) of section 149 to review an assessment or 
valuation; 

to) prescribing the form of notices under section 147 of notices of demand 
under subjection (2) of section 155, of warrants under sub-section (1) 
of section 157, and returns of sales under sub-section (3) of section 
159; 

(d) fixing the fees payable in connection with distraint under this Act; 

<e) prescribing the conditions and limitations under which a water-rate or 
lighting rate may be imposed under the proviso to clause (a) of 
sub-section (1) of section 125; 

(f) prescribing the conditions and limitations under which a license may 
be granted for the purpose of a tax on the trades, professions, and 
callings specified in Schedule JV; and 

(gl regulating any other matter relating to taxes, tolls, fees or rates in 
respect of which this Act makes no provision or insufficient provision, 
and for which provision is, in the opinion of the State Government, 
necessary, or which Is directed to be prescribed. 

Chapter VI — Streets 

General 

216, Certain provisions relating to streets to be applied only to certain munici- 
palities. — The provisions contained in sections 217 to 220 and In sections 223 to 229 
shall not applv to any municipality, unless and until they have been expressly 
extended thereto by a notification issued by the State Government on application 
of the Commissioners at a meeting. 

Building-lines and street alignments for public streets 

217. Power to Commissioners to prescribe building-line and street alignment. — 
ill If the Commissioners at a meeting consider it expedient to prescribe for any 
public street a building-line or a street alignment, or both a building-line and a 
street alignment, they shall give public notice of their intention to do so; 

Provided that no building-line shall ordinarily be prescribed for any street laid 
out and made before the commencement of this Act. 

(21 Every such notice shall specify a period within which objections will be 
received, and a copy of such notice shall be sent by post to every owner of premises 



xo9o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 2ft, J'JOl ySR WANA 7, 1883 


(P,. RT II 


abutting on such street who is registered in respect of such premises on the hooks 
of the municipality: 

Provided that failure or omission to serve such notice on any owner shall not 
invalidate proceedings under this section. 

(.8) The Commissioners shall consider all objections received within the said 
period and shall hear any objector who comes forward within such period as they 
may fix in this behalf, and may then make an order prescribing a building-line or 
a street alignment or both a building-line and a street alignment for such public 
street 

A register or book with plans attached shall be kept by Commissioners showing 
all public streets in respect of which a building-line or street alignment has been 
prescribed, and such register shall contain such particulars as to the Commis- 
sioners may appear to be necessary and shall be open to inspection by any person 
upon payment of such fee as may from time to time be fixed by the Commissioners 
at a meeting. 

(4) A building-line shall not be prescribed so as to extend further back than 
the main front wall of any building (other than a boundary wall) abutting on the 
street at its widest part. 

(5) Every order made under sub-section (3) shall be published in the Official 
Gazette, and shall take effect from the date of such publication. 


218. Restrictions on erection of, or addition to, buildings or walls within street 

alignment or building line. — (1) No portion of any building or boundary wall shall 
be erected or added to within a street alignment prescribed under section 217: 

Provided that the Commissioners at a meeting may, in their discretion, permit 
additions to a building to be made within a street alignment, if such additions 
merely add to the height of, and rest upon, an existing building or wall, upon the 
owner of the building executing, if required to do so bv th ■ Commissioners, an 
agreement binding himself and his successors in interest — 

(a) not to claim compensation in the event of tho Commissioners at any 

time thereafter calling upon him or such successors, by writtep notice 
to remove any addition made to any building in pursuance of such 
permission, or any, portion thereof, and 

(b) to pay the expenses of such removal, 

(2) If the Commissioners refuse to grant the permission applied for to add to 
any building on the ground that the proposed site falls wholly or in part within 
a street alignment prescribed under sertion 217 and if such she, or the portion 
thereof which falls within such alignment, be not acquired by the Commissioners 
within six months after the date of such refusal, they shall pay reasonable 
compensation to the owner of the site. 

(3) No person shall erect or add to any building between a street alignment 
and the building-line without first obtaining the permission of the Commissioners 
at a meeting to do so: 

Provided that it shall not be necessary to obtain permission under this sub- 
section to erect, between a street alignment and the building-line, — 

(a) a porch or balcony, or. 

(b) along not more than one-third of the frontage, an outhouse not exceed- 

ing fifteen feet in height. 

(4) If the Commissioners grant permission under sub-section (3) they may 
require the applicant to execute an agreement in accordance with the proviso to 
sub-section (1). 

21 ft. Power to Commissioners to take possession of, and add to street, land 
situated within prescribed street alignment Or covered by projecting buildings. — 

(1) The Commissioners may at any time after notice to the owner of the land of 
their intention take possession of — 

(a) any land (abutting on a public street) upon which any portion of any 
building or wall, projecting beyond the front of the adjoining build- 
ing or wall, which is on either side of such first-mentioned building or 
wall, has collapsed or been demolished or burnt down, and 



Sec. 3(i)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 1, 188S IO 91 


(b) any land not covered by buildings (including land on which a building 
has collapsed or been demolished or burnt down) which is situated 
within a street alignment prescribed under section 217, 

after making full compensation to the owner thereof for any direct damage which 
he may sustain thereby and shall take possession of any land, as specified in clause 
(b), if the owner thereof calls upon them to do so 

(2) Any land taken possession of under sub-section (1) shall forthwith be added 
to and become part of the said street, and shall vest in the Commissioners. 

Explanation. — The expression “direct damage” as used in sub-section (1) with 
reference to land means the market value of the land taken and the depreciation, 
if any, in the ordinary market value of the rest of the land resulting from the area 
being deduced in size; but docs not include damage due to any particular use to 
which the owner may allege that he intended to put the land, although such use 
may be injuriously affected by the reduction of the site. 

220. Power to Commissioners to sot buildings forward to Improve line of public 
street. — The Commissioners at a meeting may, upon such terms as they thJnk fit. 
allow' any building or wall to be set forward for the purpose of improving the line 
of a public street. 

Opening, improvement and closing of public streets, squares and gardens 

221. Power to Commissioners make, improve and close public streets, squares 
and gardens. — The Commissioners in pursuance of a decision arrived at a meeting 
may- — 

(a) lay out and make new streets, squares and gardens; 

(b) construct new bridges, causeways, culverts and sub-ways; 

(c) turn, divert, or temporarily or permanently close any public street or 

part thereof, or permanently close any public square or garden; 

(d) widen, open, enlarge, or otherwise improve any public street, square or 

garden; 

(e) provide at their discretion building sites of such dimensions as they 

think fit to abut on, adjoin or obtain access from any public street 
made, widened, length :ned, extended, enlarged or improved by the 
Commissioners under clauses (a), (b), (c) or (d) or by the State 
Government; 

(f) subject to the provisions of any rule made by the State Government, 

prescribing the conditions on -which the land may be acquired for 
the Commissioners, obtain, through the State Government the acqui- 
sition of any land, along with the buildings thereon, which they con- 
sider necessary for the purposes of any scheme or work undertaken 
or projected In exercise of the pow'ers conferred by the preceding 
clauses including purposes of recoupment of the cost of any such 
scheme or work; and 

(g) subject to the provisions of any rule made by the State Government 

prescribing the conditions on which land vested in the Commissioner* 
mav be trans'erred, leasN sell or otherwise dispose of anv land ac- 
quired for the Commissioners under clause (f) or any buildings erec- 
ted thereon or any land used by the Commissioners for a public 
street, and in doing so impose any condition as to th^ description of 
anv building to be erected thereon, as to the period within which 
such building shall be completed, as to the removal of any building 
existing thereon and as to any other matter that they deem fit, 

222 Power to Commissioners to dispose of so much of a permanently closed 
street, square or garden as Is not reaulrcd. — (1) When any public street, or part 
thereof or any public square or garden is permanently closed under section 221 , 
the Commissioners in nurwanre of a decision arrived at at a meeting, mav sell 
or lease the site of so much of the roadway and foot-nath as is no longer required, 
or the site of the squar- or garden, as the case mav he. making due enmpensation 
to, or providing means of aecess for, any person who may suffer damage by such 
closing. 

(21 In determining sueb compensation allow'ance shall be made for anv benefit 
accruing to the same premises or anv adiaf'nt premises belonging to the same 
owner from the construction or improvement of any other public street, square 



I 092 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 25, I9RI/SRAVANA 7, 1883 [Part II 


or garden at or about the same time that the public street, square or garden on 
account of, which the compensation is paid is closed. 

Projected public streets 

223. Projected public streets.- — (11 The Commissioners at a meeting may from 
time to time prepare schemes and plans of projected public street, showing the 
direction of such street, the street alignment and building-line on each side of 
them, their intended width and such other details as may appear desirable 

(2) The width of such projected streets, inclusive of space tor foot-paths, shall 
not be less than twenty feet: 

Provided that— 

(a) the Commissioners at a meeting may for special reasons reduce the 

width of any projected street but not so as to be 1 ’ss than sixteen 
feet; and 

(b) this sub section shall not apply in any case in which the projected 

street, or any part thereof runs along an existing street and the 
Commissioners consider it impracticable to widen the street to the 
extent of twenty feet, 

224. ProvLslons of section 218 to apply to projected public streets. — The provi- 
sions of section 218 shall, with all necessary modifications, apply to public streets 
projected under section 223. 

Special provisions as to private streets 

225. Making of new private streets, — (1) Any person intending to make or lay 
out a new private street shall send to the Commissioners a written notice, with 
plans und sections, showing the following particulars of the proposed street 
namely — 

(a) the level, width and alignment thereof, and 

fb ) the arrangements to be made for lc\el]ing. paving, metalling, flagging, 
channelling, sewering, draining and lighting the street, 

(2) The provisions of this Act as to the width of public streets and the height 
of buildings abutting thereon, and as to projected publir streets, shall respectively 
apply in the case of streets r ferred to in sub-section Cl); and all the particulars 
referred to in that sub-section shall be subject to approval by the Commissioners 
at a meeting: 

Provided that the Commissioners at a meeting may allow a private str.et to 
be made or laid out of a width less than twentv feet but not less than sixteen feet. 

(3) Within ninety days alter the receipt oi any notice under sub-section (1) 
the Commissioners at a meeting shall either sanction the making of the street, or 
disallow it, or ask for further information with respect to such street. 

(4) Such sanction may be refused — 

(i) if the proposed street would conflict with any arrangements which 

have been made, or which are in the opinion of the Commissioners 
likely to be made- within a reasonable period, for carrying out any 
general scheme of street improvement, or 

(ii) if the proposed street does not conform to the provisions of this Act 

referred to in sub-section (2), or 

(iii) if the proposed street is not designed so as to connect at one end with 

a street which is already open. 

(5) If further information is asked for under sub-section (3) no steps shall be 
taken to make or lay out the street until orders have been passed upon receipt 
of such information, and such orders shall be pass d within ninety days of the 
receipt of such further information. 

(0j If within ninety days after the receipt of any notice under sub-section (1), 
or within ninety days after the receipt of any further information asked for 
under sub-section (3), the Commissioners have not refused sanction to the making 
nf the private street, it shall be deemed (hat sanction to the same has been gran- 
ted. 



1093 


See. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 19G1/5RAVANA 7, 1883 


228. Prohibition of breach of section 225. — Except as provided in sub-section 
(6) of section 225, no person shall make or lav out any sticct. referred to in sub- 
section ( 1 ) of section 225 — 

(a) until he has obtained the sanction of the Commissioners under that sec- 

tion, or 

(b) in contravention of any orders made thereunder. 


227. Alteration or demolition of street made In breach of section 225 — (1) If 

any person makes or lays out any street refened to in sub-section (1) of section 
225, without having obtained the sanction of the C’omnnssionei s under that section, 
or in contravention of any orders made thereunder, the Commissioners may 
whether or not the offenders be piosccut d under this Act, by vviittcn notice, — 


fa) require the offender to show sufficient cause, bv a written statement 
signed by him and sent to thr Commissioners on or before such day 
as may be specified in the notice, why such stiect should not be al- 
tered to conform to the provisions of the rules made under sub -sec- 
tion (1) of section 228 or, if such alteration be impracticable, why 
such street should not be demolished, or 


(b) require the offender to appear before them, either personally or by a 
duly authorised agent, on such day and at silch time and place as may 
be specified in the notice, and show cause as aforesaid. 


(2) If any person on whom such notice is seived fails to show sufficient cause, 
to the satisfaction of the Commissioners, why such street should not b : so altered 
or demolished, they may cause the street to be so altered or demolished, and the 
expenses thereof shall be paid by such person 


228. Levelling;, etc., of private streets. — (1) 11 any private street or any part 
thereof be not levelled, paved, metalled, flagged, channelled, sewered, drained or 
lighted in accordance with the rules to be made by the Commissioners at a meet- 
ing for this purpose, they may, by written notice to the owner of such private 
street or the respective owners of the land fronting, adjoining or abutting upon 
such street or part, as the case may be, from time to time require them to level, 
pave, metal, flag, channel, sewer, drain or light such street or part in accordance 
with the provisions of such rules. 

(2) If such notice be not complied with and the Commissioners, under sub- 
section (2) of section 514, execute the works mentioned or referred to therein, 
the expenses thereby incurred shall bo paid by the owner ol such piivate street 
or the owners in default, in such proportion as may be settled by the Commis- 
sioners at a meeting. 


229. Power to Commissioners to take over private streets. — If any private 
street which conforms to the provisions of this Act referred to in sub-section ( 2 ) 
of section 225 be levelled, paved, metalled, flagged, channelled, sewered, drained 
and lighted in accordance with the provisions of the rules made under sub-section 
(1) of section 228, and if a majority of — 

(a) the owners of land or buildings in such street, or 

(b) the owners of the street, or 

(c) the owners who have paid the expenses re'erred to in sub-section (2) 

of section 228, 


signify in writing their consent thereto, the Commissioners at a meeting shall 
declare the same, by written notice put up in any part of such street, to be a 
public street, and thereupon the same shall become a public street and shall vest 
in the Commissioners: 


Provided that, where a private street, has been in exist'nre for not less than 
thirty years and if used by the people of the locality as a thoroughfare, the Com- 
missioners at a meeting may declare such street to be a public street, even though 
it does not strictly comply with the provisions of this cnapter, if — 

fa) the owners of the lands and buildings in such street, or 

fb) the owners of the street, 
signify in writing their consent thereto. 



1094 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29 PIG.'/SKWANA 7, 1885 


[Part II 


Supplemental provisions for regulating and protecting streets 

230. Duties of Commissioners when constructing- public streets, etc. — (1) The 

Commissioners shall, during the construction or repair of a public street or of 
any waterworks, drain or premises vested in them, or whenever any public street, 
waterworks, drain or premises vested in them have, -for want of repairs or other- 
wise become unsafe for use by the public, take all necessary precautions against 
accident by- 

fa) shoring up and protecting adjacent buildings, and 

(b) fixing bars, chains, posts or other barriers across or in any street for 

the purpose of preventing or diverting traffic during such construc- 
tion or repair, and 

(c) guarding and providing with sufficient lighting from sunset to sunrise 

any work in progress. 

(2) No person shall, without the authority or consent of the Commissioners, in 
any way interfere with any arrangement or construction made by the Commis- 
sioners under sub-section (1) for guarding against accident. 

231. Hoardings to be set up during repairs. — (1) Every person intending to 
build or take down any house, or to alter or repair the outward part of any house, 
shall if any public street will be obstructed oi rendered inconvenient or dange- 
rous by means of such work, before beginning the same, cause hoardings or fences 
to be put up to the satisfaction of the Commissioners in order to separate the 
house where such works are being carri“d on from the street, and shall keep such 
hoardings or fences standing and m good condition, to the satisfaction of the Com- 
missioners during such time as the public safety or convenience requires, and 
shall cause the samp to be sufficiently lighted during the night: 

Provided that, no person shall put up a hoarding or fence without the written 
permission of the Commissioners, nor shall he keep up the said hoarding or fence 
for a time longer than allowed in the said written permission. 

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) or who, 
without written permission, erects or sets up any hoarding, scaffolding or fence 
whatsoever, or who, being permitted, fails to put up such hoarding, scaffolding 
or fence or to continue the same standing, or to maintain the same in good condi- 
tion, or whT5 does not, while such hoarding or fence is standing, keep the same 
sufficiently lighted during the night, or who does not remove the same within 
eight days when directed by tne Commissioners, shall be liable to fine as provided 
in this Act. 

232. Leave to dejHMalt materials temporarily on, or to excavate or close, a 
street. — The Commissioners may grant permission to any person, for such period 
and on such conditions as they may think fit, to deposit any movable property on 
any public street, or to make an excavation in any public street, or to enclose 
the whole or any part of any street, and may charge such fees as they may fix 
for such permission: 

Provided that such person shall make due provision for the passage of the pub- 
lic and shall erect sufficient fences to protect the public from injury, danger or 
annoyance, and shall light such fences from sunset to sunrise sufficiently for such 
purpose. 

233. Power to close a street or part of a street for repairs or other public pur- 
pose.— The Commissioners may close temporarily any public street or part there- 
of for the purpose of repairing such street, or for the purpose of construting any 
sewer, drain, culvert or bridge, or for any other public purpose: 

Provided that the Commissioners so closing any street shall be bound to pro- 
vide reasonable means of access for persons occupying holdings adjacent to such 
street. 

234. Power to close a street or part of a street to cart or motor traffic. — The 

Commissioners at a meeting may make an order closing any public street or part 
thereof to cart or motor traffic: 

Provided that no such order ahall remain in force for more than six months 
without the sanction of the State Government. 



Sec, 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


1095 


235. Sanction of C om missi one rs to projection over streets and drains. — (1) No 

person shall put up any verandah, balcony, sunshade, weather-frame or the like 
to pioject over any public street without the written permission of the Com- 
missioners. 

(2) Subject to any rules made by the S^atc Government prescribing the 
conditions for the sanction by the Commissioners of projections over public 
streets or drains' The Commissioners at a meeting may, in their discretion, give 
written permission on such conditions as they may think fit, and, on payment of 
such fees or rent as they may from time to time fix, to the owners or occupiers 
of buildings abutting on public streets to erect or re erect verandahs, balconies, 
sunshades, weatRer-irames and the like, whether supported by pillars or not, to 
project from any building over a street or a drain in a street from any upper 
storey thereof, at such height tium (lie smlace of Hie slient and to such an 
extent beyond the line of the plinth or basement wall as are specified in by-laws 
to be framed under section 245. 

(3) In giving permission under sub-section (2), the Commissioners may pres- 
cribe the extent to which, and the conditions under which, any roofs, eaves, 
weather-boards, and the like may be allowed to project over such streets. 

(4) At any time after any permission has been given under sub-section (2), 
the Commissioners at a meeting may, by written notice, require the owner or 
occupier of the building to remove the projection referred to in such permission 
and the owner or occupier shall be entitled to reasonable compensation out of the 
Municipal Fund for such removal, 

236. Erection of platforms. — (1) No platform “hall be erected, re-erected or 
extended upon or over any public street or drain without the previous sanction 
of the Commissioners at a meeting. 

(2) The owner of every platform, except platforms which are used for giving 
such access to the houses as the Commissioners may consider necessary, shall, if 
the Commissioners at a meeting so direct, take out a license for keeping the 
platform. 

. (3) Every suph license shall remain in force until rescinded by the Commis- 
sioners at a meeting. 

(4) For every such license there shall be paid annually a fee to be fixed by 
the Commissioners at a meeting: 

Provided that a platform erected, re-erecled or extended upon or over any 
public street or drain before the commencement of this Act with the permission 
of the Commissioners at a meeting shall be allowed to remain on the same terms 
and conditions including the payment of any rent or fee prescribed in the permis- 
sion. 


237. Removal of fallen house, etc. obstructing street or drain. — Whenever any 
building, wall, revetment or other erection or any part thereof or any tree, 
stone, soil or debris from private premises falls down or is caused to fall down 
and obstructs or encumbers any public stre -t or dram, the Commissioners may 
remove such obstruction or encumbrance at the expense of the owner of the same, 
or may require him to remove the same within such time as to the Commissioners 
may seem fit. 

238. Prohibition for cutting street.— (1) No person shall, without the consent 
of the Commissioners, dig or cut up a public street in order to provide for the 
passage of wat=r or for any other purpose. 

(2) Whoever contravenes the provisions of this section shall, in addition to any 
other penalty imposed under this Act, be bound to pay the expenses incurred in 
filling up any excavation made by him or on his behalf in any such public street. 

239. Regulation of troughs arid rain-water pipes affecting a street. — -The Com- 
missioners may, by notice, require the owner or occupier of any building or land 
abutting on a street to put up and keep in good condition proper troughs and 
pipes for receiving and carrying off the water from the building or land, and for 
discharging the same in such manner as the Commissioners may think fit, so a» 
not to inconvenience persons passing along the street. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1061 /S'.IAVANA 7, 1883 


[Part n 


1096 


240. Removal of encroachments over house-gullies, etc. — (1) The Commissio- 
ners — 

(a) may, without notice themselves or by any officer authorised by them in 

writing m this behalf remove, alter or otherwise deal with any wall, 
hoarding, scaffolding, fence, rail, post, platform or other projection, 
obstruction or encroachment (not being a portion of a building or 
fixture referred to in section 241) wbien has, without first obtaining 
their written permission been erected or set up in, over, above or 
upon any house-gully, or any public street, sewer, drain, acqueduct, 
watercourse or ghat; 

(b) may issue a notice requiting any person to remove any wall, hoarding, 

scaffolding, fence, rail, post, platform or other projection, obstruction, 
or encroachment (not being a portion of a building or a fixture refer- 
red to in section 241) which he may have erected or set up in, over, 
above, or upon any hous^-gully, or any public street, sewer, drain, 
acqueduct, water-course or ghat, and which remains so erected or 
set up when the period covered by any permission given in its behalf 
has expired; and 

(c) may, themsilves or by any officer authorised by them in writing in this 

behalf, remove without notice any materials or goods or any movable 
property, which has, without their permission, been deposited In a 
public street, or in, over, above, or upon any house-gully, or any 
public sewer, drain, aqueduct, water-course or ghat, or which 
remains so deposited, when the period covered by any permission 
given in this behalf has expired, whether or not the offender be pro- 
secuted under this Act or any rules or by-laws made thereunder, 
and the offender shall be liable to pay the expense of such removal. 

(2) If the person who erected or set up any of the projections, obstructions or 
encroaehments referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1) is not known or can- 
not be found, the Commissioners may cause a notice to be posted up in the neigh- 
bourhood of the said projection, obstruction or encroachment, requiring any per- 
son interested in the same to remove it, and it shall not be necessary to name any 
person in such requisition 

(3) Notwithstanding any prosecution which may be instituted, if the person 
on whom a notice has been issued under clause (b) of sub-section (1) fails to 
comply with, the requisition within the period specified in the notice. 

or if where a notice has been posted up under sub-section (2) the projection, 
obstruction or encroachment is not removed within the period specified in such 
notice, 

the Magistrate may, on the application of the Commissioners’ order that, the 
projection, obstruction or encroachment be removed and thereup the Commis- 
sioners may, notwithstanding anything contained in sections 514 to 518, remove 
such projection, obstruction or encroachment, 

and the expenses thereby incurred shall be recovered from the person who 
erected or set up the same or by the sale of the materials removed. 

(4) No person shall be entitled to compensation In respect of the removal of 
any projection, obstruction or encroachment under this section. 

241. Power to Commissioners to remove or alter, verandah, etc., or fixtures 
attached to building which project, etc,, over public street or land.— (1) When 
any verandah, platform or other similar structure or any fixture attached to a 
building so as to form part of the building, whether erected before or after the 
commencement of this Act, causes a projection, encroachment or obstruction over 
or on any house-gully or public street or any land vested in the Commissioners 
they may, by written notice, require the owner or occupier of the building to 
remove or alter such structure or fixture. 

(2) If the expense of removing or altering any such structure or fixture Is 
paid by the occupier of the building in any case in which the same was not erec- 
ted by himself, he shall be entitled to deduct any reasonable expense incurred for 
the purposes of such removal or alteration from the rent payable by him to the 
owner of the building. 

(3) If the person on whom a notice is issued under sub-section (1) fails to 
comply with the requisition within the period specified therein, the Magistrate 
may, on the application of the Commissioners, order that such structure or fixture 
be removed or altered, and thereupon the Commissioners may carry into effect 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OI INDIA: JULY 29, 1 96 J /SR A VAN A 7, 1883 


1097 


the order of the Magistrate, and recover from the owner or occupier of the build- 
ing the cost thereby incurred: 

******** 

242. Commissioners may require landholders to trim hedges, etc. — The Com- 
missioners may require the owner or occupier of any land within three days to 
trim or prune the hedges thereon bordering on any public street or drain and to 
cut and trim any trees thereon overhanging any public street or drain or tank or 
any well used for drinking purposes, or obstructing any public street or drain 
or any property of the Commissioners, or likely to cause damage to any person 
using any public street or fouling or likely to foul the water of any well or tank. 

243. Commissioners may require owners of land to repair damage to streets, 
etc. — Whenever any public street or drain or any other municipal property is 
damaged, washed away or eroded by any private pool, ditch, tank, pond, pit or 
other excavation which exists by the side of such street, drain or property, the 
Commissioners may, by written notice, require the erwner or occupier of the land 
on which such pool, ditch, tank, pond, pit or excavation is situated to repair the 
damage and to restore the street, drain or property to its original condition as 
far as possible within one month from the date of the service of such notice. 

244. Names of streets and numbers of houses. — (1) The Commissioners at a 
meeting may cause a name to be given to any public street or square and to be 
affixed in such place as they may think fit, and may also cause a number to be 
affixed to every house, and in like manner may, from time to time, cause such 
names and numbers to be altered. 

(2) No person shall destroy, pull down, deface or alter any name or number 
put up by the Commissioners under the authority of sub-section (1). 

245. Power to make by-laws.— -The Commissioners at a meeting may make 
by-laws — 

(al to regulate or prohibit any description of traffic on public street, or 
on approaches to ghats or public ferries and to prevent obstructions, 
encroachments, or excavations on or near such streets, ghats or 
ferries; 

(b) to prevent, prohibit or regulate the use or occupation of any or all 
public streets or places by any person for the sale of articles or for 
the exercise of any calling or for setting up any booth or stall, and 
to provide for the levy of fees for such use or occupation; 

tc) to dcftermlnc the information and plans to be furnished to the Com- 
missioners under section 225; and 

(d) to regulate the conditions on which permission may be given under 
section 235 with reference to projections over public streets and 
drains and to provide for the payment of f j es or rent for such user 
of the streets and drains and to provide for the removal of such 
projections. 

Chapter VII. — Consekvancy and Drainage 

Remoral of sewage, rubbish arid offensive matter 

246. Duties of Commissioners In relation to conservancy. — The Commissioners 
at a meeting shall provide for the removal — 

(a) of sewage, rubbish and offensive matter from all public latrines, 

urinals and drains, and from all public streets and all other pro- 
perty vested in the Commissioners, and 

(b) in any municipality wherein a eonservancy-ratc has been imposed. 

under section 123, of sewage and offensive matter from all private 
latrines, urinals and cess-pools, 

and for the disposal of and, if so required by the State Government, the pre- 
paration of compost manure from such sewage, rubbish or offensive matter ana 
for the cleansing of such latrines, urinals, drains and cess-pools, and shall main- 
tain sufficient establishment, animals, carts, sewers, pumps, drains outfall and 
disposal works and implements for the said purposes. 

247. Control over night men. — (1) The Commissioners at a meeting may make 
an order requiring all persons employed in the removal of sewage within the 



1098 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JEILY <>9, 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 1883 


[p,«t n 


limits of the municipality, or any part thereof, to take out licenses, and to be 
servants of the Commissioners for the purpose of removing sewage from premises 
within the said limits. 

The Commissioners at a meeting may grant such licens.s subject to such 
.conditions as they may think fit, and may impose fees in respect of the same, 

(2) Subject to the approval of the State Government the Commissioners at 
a meeting may make rules to define the duties of such persons, and any breach 
of such rules shall subject the offender to a forfeiture of license and to a fine 
as provided in such rules, 

248. Power to prescribe times and manner of removal of sewage, etc. — The 

•Commissioners at a meeting may from time to time publish an order prescribing 
the hours within which and the manner in which sewage, rubbish and offensive 
matter may be removed. 

249. Power of conservancy establishment. — All servants of the Commissioners 
employed for the purposes of this chapter may, within such hours as may be 
fixed from time to time by the Commissioners at a meeting, enter on any pre- 
mis j s of which the occupier or owner is liable to pay a conservancy-rate, and 
do all things necessary for the performance of their duties under this chapter. 

250. Deposit and removal of 3ewage, etc., In certain municipalities.— In any 

municipality or part thereof wherein a conservancy-rate has not been imposed, 
the Commissioners at a meeting may provide places convenient for the deposit 
of sewage, rubbish and offensive matter and may require the occupiers of house 
-to cause the same to be deposited daily or at other stated intervals in such 
places, and may remove the same at the expense of the occupier from any 
house, if the occupier thereof fails to do so as required by this section. 

251. Appointed hours for placing rubbish, etc., on public street. — (1) The 

Commissioners at a meeting may from time to time publish an order prescribing 
the hours within which only an occupier of any house or land may place rubbish 
or offensive matter on the public street adjacent to his house or land in a 
proper receptacle provided by the Commissioners in order that such rubbish or 
.offensive matter may be removed by the servants of the Commissioners. 

(2) No person shall place or cause to be placed rubbish or offensive matter 
on a public street at other than the times appointed and except in the receptacles 
provided by the Commissioners under sub -section (1). 

252. Removal of rubbish, etc., from premises. — (1) The Commissioners at a 
meeting may contract with the occupier of any premises to remove rubbish or 
offensive matter direct therefrom and may charge fees in this behalf. 

(2) When building operations are being carried on in any premises or when 
any premises are used for carrying on any manufacture, trade or business, the 
•Commissioners may,— 

(a) by written notice, direct the occupier of such premises to collect all 

rubbish and offensive matter accumulating on such premises in the 
course of such operations, manufacture, trade or business and to 
remove the same, at such times, in such carts or receptacles, and by 
such routes as may be specified in the notice to a place provided 
or appointed in this behalf by the Commissioners, or 

(b) after giving such occupier written notice of their intention so to do, 

themselves cause all such rubbish and offensive matter to be re- 
moved, and charge such occupier for such removal such periodical 
fee as they may specify in such notice: 

Provided that the requisition under clause (a) shall not be enforced by the 
'Commissioners nor shall action be taken by them under clause (b) until the 
occupier of the premises has been given an opportunity of being heaid within 
such time as may b j specified in the written notice that is served on him. 

253. Removal of offensive matter front or near street, — No person who, being 
the occupier of a house in or near a public street, shall keep or allow to be kept, 
for more than twenty-four hours, or for more than such shorter time as may be 
fixed by the Commissioners at a meeting, otherwise than in some proper 
receptacle, any dirt, dung, bones, ashes, nightsoil or filth or any noxious or 
• offensive matter in or upon such house, or in any out-house, yard or ground 



1099 


Sic, 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, I961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


attached to and occupied with such house, nor shall any person suffer such 
receptacle to be in a filthy or noxious state, or neglect to employ proper means 
to cleanse the same. 

254. Prohibition of allowing- sewage, offensive matter or rubbish to be thrown 
or run Into street, or drain thereof. — No person shall — 

(i) throw’ or put or cause or permit to be thrown or put, any sewage or 
offensive matter upon any street, or drop pass or place, or cause to be 
dropped, passed or placed, into or in any drain, any brick, stones, 
earth or ashes or any substance or matter, by which or by reason of 
the amount of which such drain is likely to be obstructed; or 

(iil without the permission of the Commissioners pass, or permit or cause 
to be passed, into any drain provided for a particular purpose any 
matter or liquid for the conveyance of which such drain was not 
provided; or 

(iii) without the permission of the Commissioners cause or suffer to be dis- 
charged into any drain from any factory, bakehouse, distillery, work- 
shop or work place, or trom any building or place in which steam, 
water or mechanical power is employed, any hot water, stream or 
fumes, or any liquid which would prejudicially affect the drain or the 
disposal by sale or otherwise of the sewage conveyed along the drain, 
or which would, from its temperature or otherwise, be likely to creat 
a nuisance. 

255, Disposal of dead bodies of animals. — -(1) Whenever an animal in the charge 
■of a person dies, otherwise than by being slaughtered either for sale or con- 
suptlon or for some religious purpose, the person in charge thereof shall, either — 

(a) convey the carcass within twenty-four hours to a place (if any) fixed 

by the Commissioners for the disposal of the dead bodies of animals, 
or to a place beyond municipal limits not being within one mile or 
those limits, or 

(b) given notice of the death within six hours to the Commissioners where- 

upon the Commissioners shall causa the carcass to be disposed of. 

(2) For the disposal of the carcass under clause (b) of sub-section (1), the 
Commissioners may charge such fee as they may determine at a meeting and 
may recover the same, if not paid in advance, from the owner or person in charge 
of the animal. 

250. Rubbish deposited to be the property of the Commissioners. — All things 
deposited in places provided or appointed under this chapter for the deposit of 
sewage, offensive matter, rubbish and carcasses of animals shall be the property 
of the Commissioners. 

257. Public latrines,— The Commissioners in pursuance of a decision arrived 
at at a meating shall provide and maintain in sufficient numbers and in proper 
situations public latrines and urinals for the separate use of each sex and shall 
cause the same to be kept in proper order and to be properly cleansed. 

258. Power to Commissioners to require privy and other accommodation to be 

provided In buildings. — (1) When application is made to erect or materially alter 
any building — 

(i) intended for human habitation, or 

(ii) at or in which labourers or workmen arc to be employed, the Com- 
missioners may direct that such privy and urinal accommodation shall be pro- 
vided as they consider to be suitable therefor. 

(2) In directing the provision of any such accommodation the Commissioners 
may determine in each case — 

(a) where an underground sewerage system has been provided, whether 

such building shall be provided with service or connected privies or 
urinals, or partly with one and partly with the other; and 

(b) what shall be the site or position of each privy or urinal, and their 

number. 

(3) When any premises at or in which not less than twenty labourers Or work- 
men are employed are without privy, urinal, bathing or washing place accommo- 
dation to the satisfaction of the Commissioners they may, by written notice, 



Iioo THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ’.JULY 29, 1%1 ySRAVANA 7, 13&3 [Part II 


require the owner of such premises to provide such privy, urinal or bathing or 
washing place accommodation as they may prescribe. 

(^Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore in this section contained in making 
an order under sub-section (1) or a requisition under sub-section (3), the Com- 
missioners may, in the case of a building the valuation of which exceeds or is 
likely to exceed a sum to be fixed in this behalf by the Commissioners at a 
meeting, direct, inter alia, that existing service latrines shall be replaced by 
septic tank latrines or, as the case may, that septic tank latrines shall be piovided 
within such time as may be specified by the Commissioners. 

259. Power to Commissioners to require such provisions to be made in other 
cases. — (1) When any premises intended for human habitation are without privy 
or urinal accommodation, or if the Commissioners arc of opinion that the existing 
privy or urinal accommodation available for the persons occupying or employed 
in any premises is insufficient, inefficient, or on any grounds objectionable, the 
Commissioners may, by written notice, require the owner of such premises— 

(a) to provide such, or such additional, privy or urinal accommodation as 

they may prescribe; or 

(b) to make such structural or othei alterations in the existing privy or 

urinal accommodation as they may prescribe; or 

(c) where there is an underground sewerage system, to substitute con- 

nected-privy or connected urinal accommodation for any service- 
privy or service-urinal accommodation: 

Provided that where the privy or urinal accommodation of any premises — 

(i) has been, and is being, used in common by the persons occupying or 
employed in such premises and any other premises, or 

(li) is, in the opinion of the Commissioners, likely to be so used, the Com- 
missioners may, if they are of opinion that such accommodation is 
sufficient to admit of the same being used by all the persons 
occupying or employed in all the said premises, direct in writing that 
separate privy or urinal accommodation need not be provided on or 
for such other premises: 

Provided also that the Commissioners may, if they arc of opinion that there 
is sufficient public latrine accommodation available for all the persons occupying 
or employed in any premises, direct that separate privy or urinal accommodation 
need not be providf'd for such premises 

(2) Any requisition under sub-section (1) may comprise any detail specified 
in sub-section (2) of section 258 and may, infer alia, include, in the case of a 
building the valuation of which exceeds a sum to b~ fixed in this behalf by the 
Commissioners at a meeting a direction that septic tank latrines shall be provided 
or existing service latrines shall be replaced by septic tank latrines within a 
specified time. 

290. Breach of by-laws in regard to house-drain, etc.— When by-laws huve 
been framed under section 299 or section 277 no person shall construct, renew, 
rebuild, remove, obstruct destroy, or change any house-drain, cess-pool, privy, 
sink, or urinal or appurtenances thereof, in contravention of any such by-law 
or of any notice issued or direction given thereunder or without the written 
permission of the Commissioners at a meeting. 


261. Location of liouse-drains, priVies, etc. — No person shall, without the 
written permission of the Commissioners at a meeting, construct or keep any 
house-drain, service-privy, urinal or cess-pool within fifty feet of any tank, well, 
or water-course or any reservoir for the storage of water or construct any privy 
with a door or trap-door opening into any road or drain, 

262. Powers of Commissioners to inspect latrines, urinals, etc. — (1) All latrines, 
urinals, sinks, cess-pools and drains shall be subject to the control of the Com- 
missioners and the Commissioners or any officer authorised by them In this behalf 
may inspect any latrine, urinal, cess-pool, sink, drain or receptacle for sewage 
or offensive matter at any time between sunrise and sunset, after notice in writing 
to the occupier of the premises in which such latrine, urinal, cess-pool, sink, 
drain or receptacle is situated and may, if necessary, cause the ground to be 
opened where they or he may think fit for the purpose of inspection or of pre- 
verting or removing anv nuisance arising from such latrine, urinal, cess-pool, 
sink, drain or receptacle. 



HOI 


Sec. 3 (i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 39, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


(2) The expense of such inspection and of causing the ground to be closed and 
made good as before shall be borne by the Commissioners, unless the latrine, 
urinal, cess-pool, sink, drain or receptacle is found to be in bad order or condition 
or to have been constructed in contravention of any provisions of, or made under, 
this or any other enactment, in which case such expense shall be recovered from 
the owner or occupier. 

263. Powers of Commissioners to require repair, alteration, temoval of latrine, 
etc. — (11 The Commissioners may require by notice the owner or occupier of any 
land or building, within a period to be specified in the notice, — 

(a) to close, remove, alter, repair, disinfect or put in good order any cess- 

pool, drain or receptacle for sewage, offensive matter or rubbish per- 
taining to such land or building, to provide to their satisfaction access 
from a house-gully or lane, to any service -privy or s rvice-unnal In 
or on such land or building, or to demolish any privy or urinal con- 
structed tcb's'lt or altered in or on such land or building in contra- 
vention ot section 261 or any by-law framed under section 269 or 
section 277; 

(b) to provide such cess-pools, drains or receptacles for sewage, offensive 

matter or rubbish, as should, in their opinion be provided for the 
building or land whether in addition or not to any existing ones; or 

(c) to cause any latrinf or urinal provided for the building or land to be 

shut off by a sufficient roof and wall or fence from the view of 
persons passing bv el dwelling in the neighbourhood; 

(d) to cause any service privy or urinal provided foi a building or land 

the valuation of which is not below an amount to be fixed by the 
Commissioners at a m-eting to be converted into or replaced by a 
septic tank latrine. 

(2) When requiring under sub-section (T; any thing to be provided, altered 
or done, the Commissioners may specify in the notice the description of the thing 
to b' provided, the pattern to conform with which the thing is to be altered, and 
the manner in which the thing is to be done. 

26- 1 . Powers of Commissioners to require construction of house-gully. — -fli 
Where a privy or privies belonging to one or more premises are so placed as in 
the opinion of the Commissioners to afford to the municipal conservancy staff no 
suitable moans of access thereto for the purpose of cleansing such privy or privies, 
the Commissioners may, by written notice to the owner or owners of such privy 
or privies, require them to provide a liouse-gully of such dimensions and so paved 
and drained as they may think necessary for such purpose 

(2) If such notice be not complied with within the time fixed bv the Com- 
missioners, they may themselves acquire land and construct such house-gully, 
and the expenses thereby incurred gnull be paid bv the owner in default, and 
where there la more than one owner, by the owners in such proportion as may be 
settled — 

fa) by the Commissioners at a meeting; or 

(b) in case of dispute, by the District Magistrate. 

(3) The house-gully after construction shall be deemed to be a private street 
unless and until It vests in the Commissioners in accordance with the provisions 
of section 229. 

265. Supply of disinfectants by Commissioners. — When, under sub-scction (1) 
of section 263, an owner or occupier is r-'quired by the Commissioners to use dis- 
infectants the Commissioners may themselves supply disinfectants or deodorants 
for such use at cost price, and the expenses thereby' incurred shall b" considered 
as an arrear of tax, and be recoverable as such from th? owner of the ccss-pool, 
drain or receptacle, as the casd may be, or the Commissioners at a meeting may, 
if they think fit, order that such expense shall be paid from the Municipal Fund. 

266. Ne.glect to keep latrine, etc. in proper order. — -The owner or occupier of 
any promises to which any latrine, urinal, cess-pool, dram or other receptacle 
for sewage or offensive matter pertains, shall keep in a proper state such latrine, 
urinal, ces°-pool, drain or other receptacle: 

Provided that no person who pays a conservancy-rat^- shall be liable to punish- 
ment for non-compliance with the provisions of this section wheie the default Is 
exclusively due to the failure of the Commissioners to pcr f orm their obligations 
under this Act. 



1102 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, IW1/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


[Part It 


267. Scavenging on occasions of fairs and festivals and contribution from 
persons having control over places of pilgrimage, — The Commissioners in pur- 
suance of a decision arrived at at a meeting shall make any special scavenging 
arrangements that may be necessary on occasions ot fairs, les avals or other 
large assemblies of people, and in the case of such assemblies held in connection 
with any place of pilgrimage in or within two miles of the municipality, the 
Commissioners may require the persons having control over such place of 
pilgrimage to make such contribution as the State Government may on each 
such occasion approve towards the cost of such arrangements. 

268. Power to Commissioners to employ special establishment for removing 
excessive rubbish, sewage or offensive matter. — Where in the opinion of the 
Commissioners at a meeting the accumulation of rubbish, sewage or offensive 
matter on any premises, or the amount, of rubbish, sewage or offensive matter 
from any premises deposited on any place other than a place set apart by the 
Commissioners for the disposal of rubbish, sewage or offensive matter is excessive, 
they may sanction the employment of special establishment for the cleansing of 
such premises or for the removal of such rubbish, sewage or offensive matter 
and may impose on the owner or occupier of such premises such fee as they may 
deem proper to defray the cost of such establishment. 

By-laws relating to conservancy 

209. Power to make by-laws regarding conservancy.— The Commissioners at 
a meeting may make by-laws — 

(a) regulating the disposal of sewage, offensive matter, the carcasses of 

animals and rubbish; 

(b) requiring notice of intention to construct, repair or alter a privy or 

urinal or any appurtenance thereof and determining the plans, 
specifications or other particulars to be furnished therewith; 

(c) regulating the giving or refusing of sanction to the construction, repair 

or alteration of privi -s or urinals ox appuitenances thereof, their 
position, design, ventilation, flooring, drainage, and providing for 
their proper and efficient maintenance; 

(d) where there is an underground sewerage system providing for the 

proper connection of privies and urinals therewith and the fees to be 
charged in this behalf and regulating the material, size, laying 
position, trapping, ventilation and flushing of all private pipes or 
sewers pertaining to such orivics or urinals, and the proper con- 
struction, flooring and ventilation of connected privies and urinals 
and for the provision of all appurtenances thereof; 

(e) regulating the position, construction and maintenance of cess-pools and 

sinks; and 

(f) geneially regulating conservancy. 

Drainage 

270. Construction of public drains.- — The Commissioners in pursuance of a 
decision arrived at at a meeting may construct within or, subject to th - sanction 
of the State Government, outside the municipality, such drains as they think 
necessary for keeping the municipality nroperly cleansed and drain'd and may 
carry such drains through, across or under any street: 

******t!im 

271. Alteration of public drains. — (1) The Commissioners in pursuance of a 
decision arrived at at a meeting may, from time to time, enlarge, lessen, alter 
the course of, cover in or otherwise improve a municipal drain and may dis- 
continue, close up or remove any such dram. 

(2) The exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (1) shall be subject 
to the condition that the Commissioners shall provide another and equally effective 
dram in place of any existing drain of the use of which anv person is deprived 
by the exercise of the said power. 


272. Use of public drains by private owners.— The owner or occupier of a 
bunding or land shall be entitled to cause his drains to empty into the municipal 
drams, provided that he first obtains (he written permission of the Commissioners 
and that he complies with such conditions, consistent -with any by-law, as the 



Sec. 8(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961 /SR AVAN A 7, 1883 


IIOJ 


Commissioners at a meeting prescribe, as to the mode m which and the superin- 
tendence under which the communications are to be made between private drains 
and municipal drains. 

273. Power to order demolition of drain constructed without consent of Com- 
missioners. — No person shall, without the written consent of the Commissioners 
first obtained, make or cause to be made, or alter, or cause to be altered, any 
drain or branch drain leading into any of the municipal sewers or drains or into 
anv water-course, street or land vested in the Commissioners, and the Com- 
missioners, may cause any drain or branch drain so made, or altered, to be 
demolished, alt 'red, remade or otherwise dealt with as they shall think fit, and 
the expenses thereby incurred shall be paid by the persons making or altering 
such drain. 


274. Group or block of buildings, etc., may be drained by a combined opera- 
tion. — (1) If it appears to the Commission rs at a meeting that a group or block 
of buildings may be drained or improved more economically or advantageously in 
combination than separately, and if a municipal sewer or drain of sufficient size 
already exists or is about to be constructed within one hundred f et of any part 
of such group or block of buildings, the Commissioners may cause such group 
or block of houses to be so drained and improved, and the expenses thereby 
incurred shall be recovered from the owners of such buildings, m such pro- 
portions as shall to the Commissioners seem fit. 

(2) Not less than one month before any such work is commenced the Com- 
missioners shall give to each such owner — 

fa) written notice of the nature of thr proposed work: 

(b) an estimate of the expenses to be incurred in respect thereof and of 
the proportion of such expenses payable by him. 

275. Power to Commissioners to enforce drainage of undra’ned premises situate 
within one hundred feet of a municipal drain. — When any premises arc. in the 
opinion of the Commissioners at a meeting, without sufficient means of effectual 
drainage, and a municipal drain or some place approved bv the Commission 'rs 
for the discharge pr drainage ;s situated at a distance not exceeding one hundred 
feet from any part of the said premises, th:y may, by written notice, require the 
owner of the said premises — 

(a) to make a house-drain, emptying into such municipal drain or place, 

of such materials, size and description and with such flushing' 
arrangements as the Commissioners may pr. scribe; 

(b) to remove any existing house-drain, or other appliance or thing used 

or intended to be used for drainage, which is injurious to health: 

Provided that the land necssary for making the house-drain empty into the 
municipal drain or approved place may be acquired by the Commissioners at the 
cost of the owner of the said premises. 

276. Power to Commissioners to enforce drainage of undrainrd premises in 
other cases. — When any premises are, in the opinion of the Commissioners at a 
meeting, without sufficient means of effectual drainage, and thete is no municipal 
drain within one hundred feet of any part of the said premises, they may, by 
written notice, require the owner of th ' premises to construct — - 

(a) a close cess-pool or such material, size and description, and in such 

position, as they may prescribe, and 

(b) a house-drain communicating with such closed cess-pool. 

B y-laws relating to drainage 

277. Power to Commissioners to make by-laws. — The Commissioners at a 
meeting may make by-laws — 

(a) requiring every person who intends to construct, renail’, add to or 

alter a house -drain or cess-pool, to submit an application to the Com- 
missioners with such plans and other particulars as may be 
prescribed and regulating thm giving and refusing of sanction to such 
application; and 

(b) regulating the material, size, laving flushing, ventilation, trapping, and 

position of drains and gencrcdlv their construction, repair and main- 

tenance. 



H04 


[Part II 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 39, 196) ySRAVANA 7, 1883 


Chapter VIII — Water-supply, Lighting, Drainage and Sewerage Systems 

278. Commissioners to provide water-supply, drainage and lighting.— ( 1) It 

.shall be lawful for the Commissioners of every municipality — 

(a) to provide a sufficient supply of water for the domestic use of the 

inhabitants; 

(b) to provide and maintain a sufficient system of drainage and conser- 

vancy; and 

(c) to cause the public streets to be sufficiently lighted. 

(2) When it has Been determined that a water-rate, conservancy-rale, or 
lighting-rate shall be Imposed within a municipality the Commissioners shall— 

(a) provide a sufficient supply of wat j r foi the domestic use of the 

inhabitants; or 

(b) provide and maintain a sufficient system of drainage and conservancy; or 

(c) cause the public streets to be sufficiently lighted, as the case may be. 

279. Construction of water-works, drainage or sewerage works. — (1) Subject 
to the rules made by the State Government under section 311 and in accordance 
with sanction granted under those rules, the Commissioners of any municipality 
nr such Commissioners acting conjointly with any other local authority may, 
in pursuance of a decision arrived at at a meeting, within or without a munici- 
pality,— 


(a) construct water works, or drainage or sewerage works or works 

required for the introduction of a system of lighting by electricity, 
gas or otherwise, and 

(b) from time to time enlarge, lessen, alter the course of, or otherwise 

modify or discontinue, close up, or lemove the same. 

(2) The State Government may advance from the public funds on the security 
<of the Municipal Funds and in the case of a joint scheme on the security of the 
municipalities and other local authorities if any, concerned therein, the cost 
of preparing and carrying out any drainage, water-supply, sewerage, or lighting 
scheme sanctioned by the Government under the provisions of sub-section (1), 
and such udvancc shall be recoverable und j r the relevant Act and rules 
governing the recovery of loans in force in the Union Territory of Tripura 

280. Power to appoint an Officer to execute the work. — The State Government 
may, on the application of th? Commissioners at a meeting or of the local 
authority acting with them under the provisions of section 279, direct that any 
works specified in any scheme or joint scheme for the purposes of section 279 
shall be executed by an officer to be appointed by the Slate Government and 
shall fix the remuneration of such officer (provided that the cost of the scheme 
as sanctioned be not exceeded) and may specify a period within which the work 
shall be completed and may extend such period irom time to time as may be 
necessary. 

281. Power to compel municipality to provide proper drainage sewerage, etc,-— 

(1) If at any time it appears to the State Government that the Commissioners of 
any municipality have made default in providing their municipality or any part 
of it with proper and sufficient drains or sewers or in providing a good and 
sufficient sqpply of water or lighting, having regard to the financial resources of 
the municipality, and that danger arises from such default to the health or safety 
of the inhabitants of the municipality or any part of it, the State Government 
may cause a scheme of drainage, sewerage, iighting or water-supply to be pre- 
pared by such persons as it may depute for the purpose. 

(2) When a scheme has been prepared for a municipality und'r sub-section 
(1), the State Government may call upon the Commissioners of such municipality 
to show cause at a meeting why they should not be required to carry oui the 
scheme. 

(3) The State Government shall considei any objections and suggestions which 
may be submitted by the Commissioners and, if satisfl d that the execution and 
maintenance of the scheme will not subject the financial resources of the 
municipality to any undue strain, may, subiect to the rules fram d under section 
311, sanction the scheme with such modifications, if any, as it may think proper 
and specify a period during which the scheme shall be carried out. 



SEC. 8(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961 /SR VVANA 7, 1883 H05 


(4) If the scheme is not carried out within the period fixed, the State Govern- 
ment may, by order, appoint some person to carry it out and may direct that the 
cost of the works including the remuneration of the prisons appointed, and of 
the supervising establishment, the cost of land acquisition and any other inci- 
dental charges shall be paid within such time as it may fix Tom the Municipal 
Fund, and may, if necessary, direct that any rate or rales authorised under this 
Act shall be levied or increased ( but not so as to exceed any maximum prescribed 
in that behalf) and may further, or as an alternative, advance any sum of 
money, required in its opinion for the execution of tho scheme, from the public 
funds on the security of the Municipal Fund and such advance shall be recover- 
able under the relevant Act and rules governing the rpeovery of loans in force 
in the Union territory of Tripura. 

(5) The person appointed under sub-section (4) may, for the purpose of 
executing the scheme, exercise any of the powers conferred on the Commissioners 
by or under this Act, which are specified in that behalf in the order issued under 
sub-section (4). 

282. Power to compel execution of joint drainage schemes, etc. — (1) If the 

State Government is of opinion that the conditions described in sub-section (T) 
of section 281, prevail in two or more adjoining municipalities, or any part thereof 
and that in the interests of efficiency and economy, a joint drainage, sewerage, 
lighting or water-supply scheme should be prepared for both or all such munici- 
palities or any part thereof, it may cause a joint scheme to be prepared 
accordingly. 

(2) All the provisions of section 281 shall apply mutatis mutandis to such joint 
scheme and the State Government shall determine what proportion of the cost 
of_ preparing, executing and maintaining such scheme shall be borne by the Com- 
missioners of each municipality concerned, 

283. Extension of drainage schemes, etc. — (1) Where the Stute Government 
causes a scheme to be prepared under section 281 or section 282 and the Com- 
missioners of the municipality or municipalities concerned and the local authority 
or local authorities of any other area or areas anply 1o have the scheme extended 
so as to serve such area or areas, the State Government may, by ord :r, notify 
its general approval to such extension, determine what proportion of Ihe cost of 
preparing, executing and maintaining the sclvme shall he paid by such other 
local authority or local authorities and prescribe conditions for the punctual pay- 
ment of such proportion, 

(2) A copy of such order shall he sent lo ihe Commissioners of each munici- 
pality concerned and to such other local authority or local authorities, and if 
they request that the proposed extension of the scheme shall he made the State 
Government shall, subject to the rules made under section 311, finally 
sanction such extension. 

284. Disputes as to joint schemes— If at anv time after anv joint scheme has 
b-on finally sanctioned nnv dispute prise<? between the Commissioners and any 
other local authority concerned in such scheme respecting «urh matters as super- 
vision, management, maintenance, extension repairs, altered 10 ns, the quantity 
of water or lighting to be suppln d to each municipality or to anv area under the 
control of any other local authority concerned, connection with the mains and 
the fees charged therefor and the like, a referenec shall he mad“ to the State 
Government, whose orders shall be final and shall not b~ questioned in any court: 

****I«I*U.H< 

285. Power to State Government to take control over imperfect, inefficient or 
unsuitable drainage work, etc. — (1) If at any time it appears to the State Govern- 
ment that any drainage works, sewerage works lighting works or water works 
executed under the provisions of section'- 279. 281. 282 or 283. or vested in the 
Commissioners of anv municipality are maintained or worked in an imperfect, 
inefficient or unsuitable manner, th- State Government mav. by written order, 
direct the Commissioners of the munieinalitv or munieinalities or other local 
authority or local authorities within n period specified in the order, to show 
cause at a meeting why the drainage works, sewerage works, lighting works or 
water works -with all plant, fittings and appurtenances thereof should not be 
handed over for such period as the State Government may fix to the control and 
management of such person as the State Government mav appoint. 

(2) If eausc is not 'Shown to Ihe satisfaction of the Slate Government within 
the period specified in Ihe order issued under sub-section (T), the State Govern- 
ment may, bv order, direct that the drainage works, sewerage works, lighting 
works or water works with all plant, fittings and appurtenances thereof shall be 



1106 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY L'9. 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 1883 [Paht II 


handed over for such period as it may fix to the control and management of 
such person as to may appoint. During the period so fixed the complete control 
and management of the drainage works, sewerage works, lighting works or water 
works, as the case may be, shall he vested in tne person so appointed, who shall 
engage such establishment for the purpose of maintaining and working such 
drainage works, sewerage works, lighting works or water works as the State 
Government may from time to time approve. The cost of such establishment 
and of all materials, implements, coal, stores and every thing necessary for the 
maintenance and working of the works shall be paid within such period as may 
be fixed by the State Government from the conservancy-rate, lighting-rate or 
water-rate, as the case may be, and may direct that such rate shall, for this 
purpose, be increased but not so as to exceed the maximum prescribed in that 
behalf. 

(3) If the cost is not so paid, the District Magistrate may proceed as in section 
551. 

• •*•••** 

4 

280. Power of Commissioners to lay or carry pipes, drains or sowers through 

private land. — (1) The Commissioners may carry any pipe, drains, sewer or channel 
of any kind for the purpose of providing or of carrying out and establishing or 
maintaining a system of drainage, sewerage, lighting or water-supply through, 
across, under or over anv street or place, laid out as. or Intended for. a street, 
and after giving reasonable notice in writing to the owner or occupier, into, 
through across, under, over or up the side of anv land or building whatsoever, 
situate within the limits of the municinality, and. for thp purpose of introduction, 
or distribution of light or water, or for the outfall of water, or for the removal 
or outfall of sewage, or for drainage outfall, without such limits, and may at all 
times do all acts and things which mav be necessarv or expedient for repairing 
or maintaining any such pipe, drain, sewer or channel, as the case may he. in an 
effective state for the purpose for which the same may be used or intended to he 
used: 

Provided that no annoyance to the public more than Is necessarily caused by 
the proper execution of the work is created by any such operation: and 

Provided, further, that reasonable compensation shall he paid to the owner or 
occupier for any damage at the time sustained by him through or in consequence 
of any such operations. 

(2) Whenever the State Government has sanctioned any works without the 
limits of any municipality for bringing light or water into such municipality or 
for draining or disposing of the sewage of such municipality, the Commissioners 
may exercise all the powers which by this Act thev mav exercise within the 
municipality, in the construction, maintenance and repair of such work through- 
out the line of country in which such works are situated or through which they 
are to run. 

287, Pipes, drains or sewers laid or carried above surface of ground. — In the 

event of any pipe, drain, sewer or channel being laid or rnrried above the surface 
of any land or through, over, or up the side of any building, such pipe, drain, 
sewer or channel, as the case may be, shall be so laid or carried as to interfere 
as little as possible with the rights of the owner or occupier to the due enjoyment 
of such land or building, and reasonable compensation shall he paid in respect 
of anv substantial Interference with anv such right to such enjoyment. 

238. Previous notice to be given,— Except in cases to which section 293 relates, 
the Commissioners shall cause not less than one month's notice in writing to be 
given to the owner or any occupier before commencing any operations under 
section 288. 

289. Power to permit connection to houses and lands. — O) Subiect to the 
prescribed conditions and restrictions and to such terms as the Commissioners 
may from time to time determine, the Commissioners at n meeting may»— 

(a) on the application of the owner or occupier of aov house or land 

paying the water-rate or lighting-rate, as the case mav be, make or 
cause, or permit to be made communication or connection from any 
main, or distribution pipe, belonging to the Commissioners for the 
purpose of leading water or gas to such house or land, or 

(b) on the application of the owner or occupier of any house or land make. 

or cause or permit to he made, any connection or communication to 



Sec. 3(i)J THE GAZETTE Of INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 11 Q 7 


such house or land from any dram, sewer, or channel constructed or 
maintained by o r vested m the Commissioners. 

(2) The Commissioners at a meeting may require the amount necessary for 
the execution tnrougn tneir own agency ol any wont under tills section to be paid 
or deposited beiore suen wont is executed oy tiicin. 

299. Power to make or require connections in certain cases. — in any case m 
whicn a service-pipe from a mam supplies water to two or more holdings, the 
commissioners may, by written nonce, tequire me owner or suen noldings to lay 
down separate service-pipes lor tne separate Holdings, and me expense ot so doing 
shall be borne by ah such owners m such proportions as may ne determined by 
tne Commissioners. 

291. Power to establish meters and the like. — The Commissioners may establish 
meters tor the purpose of testing tne quantity or quality ol any gas supplied to 
the house or land of any person or to or for tne use or any person or business. 

292. Attachment of meters. — For the purpose of measuring and recording the 
amount of water consumed, the Commissioners may lix a meter at a convenient 
point between tne holding of the consumer and the municipal main. 

293. Power to enter premises. — (.1) Any otllcer authorized in this behalf by the 
Commissioners may, between tne hours ox seven in tne loienoon and hve in the 
atternoon, enter into or on any house or land lor me purpose of inspecting or 
repairing any water, gas or other installation and for taking readings of meters 
connected therewith. 

(2) If such officer at any such time is refused admittance into such house or 
land lor the purposes aforesaid, or is prevented from making such examination, 
the Commissioners may iorthwnh cut off the supply of gas or water, as the case 
may be, from such house or land: 

Provided that nothing hereinbefore contained shall authorize an entry into 
any room appropriated to women, unless reasonable notice in writing and 
opportunity is given to enable the women to remove to some part of the premises 
whero their privacy may be preserved. 

294. Presumption as to correctness of meter. — Whenever water or gas is 
supplied under this chapter through a meter, it shall be presumed that the 
quantity or quality indicated by the meter has been consumed until the contrary 
is proved. 

295. Cost of providing, attaching ana replacing meter. — The expense of pro- 
viding, attaching and replacing a meter shall be borne by the person requiring 
the supply or, if the service-pipe or connection has been laid down or made 
betore tne commencement of this Act, by the owner of the house or land, except 
in the case of a special agreement to the contrary between the owner and the 
occupier. Such expense shall be recovered in one or more instalments according 
as the Commissioners think proper: 

Provided that the Commissioners shall bear the cost of maintaining meter in 
good order and replacing a meter which is out of order or under repair owing 
to an inherent defect and not owing to its havmg been tampered with. 

296. Commissioners to replace damaged meter. — When any meter attached to 
the service-pipe Or connection of any house or land is out of order or under 
repair, the Commissioners shall forthwith replace it by another meter. 

297. Testing of meter. — (1) If the owner or occupier of any house or land to 
which water or gas is supplied through, a meter desires to have the meter tested 
he may send a written application to the Commissioners, and such application shall 
be accompanied by a fee of two rupees. 

(2) Upon receipt of any such application and fee the Commissioners shall 
forthwith cause such meter to be tested at a time and place to be specified In a 
notice to be served upon such owner or occupier. 

(3) If such meter is found, upon being so tested, to be incorrect by more than 
two per cent „ the said fee shall be returned to the person who sent it. 



[Part It 


II08 THE GAZETIE OF INDIA: JULY 29, I'JGI/iRAVANA 7, 1883 


298. Fraud in respect of meter. — (1) No person shall fraudulently — 

(a) alter the index to any meter, or prevent any meter from duly registering 
the quantity or quality of water or gas supplied, or 

(bl abstract or use water or gas before it has been registered by a meter, 
set up for the purpose ot testing the quantity or quality of the same. 

(Z) 'Where there has been any such alteration, prevention, abstraction or use 
tnc existence ot artificial means under the control of the consumer for causing 
imy such alteration, prevention, abstraction or use shall be evidence that the 
consumer has fraudulently effected the same. 

299. Injuring meter or fittings. — No person shall wilfully or negligently injure 
or suffer to be injured any meter or any of the fittings of any meter. 

300. Maintenance of supply of water. — The Commissioners at. a meeting shall 
from time to time determine what supply of water for domestic purposes shall 
be maintained in their service-pipes and mains, and during what hours such 
supply shall be continued. 

301. Supply for business. — (11 The Commissioners at a meeting may supply 
and may at any time after giving reasonable notice cease to supply water for 
purposes other thap domestic purposes. 

(2) For all water supplied under sub-section (1) payment shall be made at 
such rates and on such conditions as the Commissioners at a meeting may from 
time to time prescribe. 

(3) No person shall, without the written permission of the Commissioners, use, 
for other than domestic purposes, water supplied under this chapter for domestic 
purposes. 

302. Free supply of certain quantity of water for domestic purposes.— (1) The 

occupier of every premises to which water is suppli ‘d by the Commissioners 
under this chapter shall be entitled to have, for each rupee paid quarterly as 
the water-rate on account of such premises and free of further charge such quantity 
of water per quarter for domestic purposes as the Commissioners at a meeting 
may from time to time prescribe. 

(2) All water supplied in excess of the free allowance to which an occupier 
is entitled under sub-section (1) shall be paid for by him at a rate to be fixed 
from time to time by the Commissioners at a meeting. 

(3) If such premises are ordinarily occupied by two or more persons holding 
in severalty, the owner shall be liable for watei supplied in excess as referred to 
in sub-section (1); but such owner shall be entitled to recover rateably from the 
several occupiers any amount so paid. 

(4) Every incoming or outgoing occupier of any metered premises shall at 
least three clear days before entering into the occupation of or vacating such pre- 
mises as the case may be, cause a written notice to be served upon the Com- 
missioners staling the date on which he intends to occupy or vacate the premises 
and requiring the Chairman to cause the meter to be read for the determination 
of the liability, if any, for any excess consumption of filtered water on the date 
of such occupation or the date of such vacation of the premises, as the case may 
be. 


(3) Upon receipt of such notice the Chairman shall cause the meter to be read 
and furnish such occupier with a statement of such meter reading. 

(6) The outgoing occupier shall ordinarily be liublc to pay for any excess 
supplied up to the date of his vacating the premises; and the incoming occupier’s 
liability for any excess consumption of filtered water shall ordinarily accrue from 
the commencement of his occupation: 

Provided that Where no written notice is delivered to the Commissioners under 
sub-section (4), the Commissioners shall be entitled to realise from such incoming 
oceunier the full proportionate amount of the charges for excess water consumed, 
on the basis of the next quarterly or other reading of the meter made after the 
occupation of the incoming occupier, or such less amount as the Commissioners 
may think fit, regard being had to the number of davs in any quarter during 
which the premises were occupied by such incoming occupier, the number of 
Inmates during that period and the 'amount of free allowance to which such 
occupier may be entitled under sub-section (1). 



Sire, 3(i)] THE GAZETTE Of InLHA. JULY 29, 19Cl/SRAV r ANA 7, 1883 


303. Inspection of works and pipes before connection. — (.1) Before a connection 
for the supply of water from the distribution mains of the Commissioners to any 
premises is sanctioned, che Commissioners may cause all the works, pipes and 
fittings within the said premises to be inspected by an otflcer appointed by them 
in this behalf. 

(2) The cost of such inspection shall be payable in advance by the person 
applying lor such connection at such cates as the Commissioners at a meeting 
shall from time to time direct. 

(3) Until such officer has certified to the Commissioners that the works, pipes 
and fittings have boon executed and put up m a satisfactory manner a connection 
with the Commissioners’ service pipes shall not be permitted. 

(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section if at any time after a 
certificate has been granted under sub-section (3) the Commissioners are satisfied 
that any work, pipe or fittings is unsuitable or results m a waste of water, the 
Commissioners may require the person who provided such work, pipe or fitting, 
or the owner of the premises, to alter or add to them at his own cost. 

304. Permission to person outside the municipality to take water. — The Com- 

missionez's at a meeting may with the sanction of, and on such terms (if any) as 
may be approved by the State Government, supply water to a local authority or 
other person outside the municipality. 

305. Water not to be taken out of municipality or wasted. — No person — 

(i) shall take, or cause to be taken for use outside the limits of the munici- 

pality water supplied by the Commissioners, without the permission 
of the Commissioners given under section 304 or in contravention of 
any conditions which they may prescribe; 

(ii) being the occupier of any premises to which water is supplied by the 

Commissioners under this chapter, shall, Irom negligence or other 
circumstances under the control of the said occupied, allow the water 
to be wasted, or allow the pipes, woiks or fittings for the supply of 
water in his premises to be out of repair so as to cause waste of water; 

(iii) shall otherwise cause waste of water supplied by the Commissioners; 

(iv) shall unlawfully flood, draw off, divert or tuke water from, any water- 

works belonging to, or under the control of, the Commissioners, or 
from any water or streams by which such watei -works are supplied. 

306. Owner to bear the cost of keeping works in repair. — Except in the case 
of a special agreement to the contrary, the owner of any premises shall bear the 
expenses of keeping all works connected with the supply of water to such pre- 
mises in substantial repair, and if he fails to do so, the occupier may, after giving 
the owner three days’ notice in writing, himself have the repairs executed and 
deduct the expenses thereof fiom any rent which is due from him to the owner 
in respect of such premises: 

Provided that nothing in this s-ction shall ailect the liabilities of parties under 
leases executed previous to the extension of this chapter to the municipality in 
which the said premises are situated. 


307. Estimate and specification of works to be sent— No work for introducing 
a supply of water lo any premises shall be commenced by the owner without 
sending a specification and estimate of the cost thcreoi to the occupier, nor by 
the occupier without sending such specification and estimate lo the owner. 


308. Power to take charge of private connections. — The Commissioners at a 
meeting may, if they think fit, take charge of all communication-pipes and fittings 
of any existing private water-works connected with the municipal water-supply 
up to and including the slop-cock nearest the supply-main for the said works, and 
such communication-pipes and fittings shall thereafter vest In and be maintained 
at the expense of, the Commissioners as municipal water-works. 

309. Power to cut off or to turn off supply of water to premises. — (1) Notwith- 
standing anything contained in this chapter the Commissioners may cut off the 
connection between any of their water-works and any premises to which water 



mo The gazette oe India ; july dig) /Havana 7 , isst [Pa*t h 


Is supplied from such works, or may turn oil such supply, m any of the following 
cases, namely; — 

(a) if the premises are unoccupied; or 

(b) if, after receipt of a written notice from the Commissioners requiring 

him to refrain from so doing, the owner or occupier of the premises 
continues to use the water or to permit the same to be used in contra- 
vention of this Act or any rule or by-law made thereunder; or 

(c) if the occupier of the premises contravenes section 21)8, section 298, 

sub-section (3) of section 301 or section 305; or 

(d) if any pipes, taps, works or fittings connected with the supply of water 

to the premises be found, on examination by any ofheer of the Com- 
missioners authorised by them in this behalf, to be out of repair to 
such an extent as to cuuse so serious a waste or contamination of 
water that in the opinion of the Chairman immediate prevention is 
necessary; or 

(e) if the use of the premises for human habitation has been prohibited 

under section 388, from the date from which the premises are to be 
vacated under the order of the Magistrate; or 

Cf) if there is any water-pipe situated within the premises to which no tap 
or other efficient means of turning the water off is attached; or 
(g) if by reason of a leak in the service-pipe or fitting damage is caused to 
the public street and immediate prevention is necessary; 

Provided as follows; — 

(.i) water supplied for flushing privies or urinals shall not be cut off or 
turned off; 

(ii) water shall not be cut off or turned off in any case referred to in 
clause (e) unless written notice of not less than forty-eight hours 
has been given to the occupier of the premises. 

(2) The expense of cutting oil the connection or of turning off the water and 
of restoring the same, as determined by the Commissioners in any case referred 
to in sub-section (1), shall be paid by the owner or occupier of the premises; 

Provided that no charge for such expense shall be made in the cases mentioned 
in clause (a) and clause (e) of the said sub-section. 

(3) No action taken under or in pursuance of this section shall relieve any 
person from any penalties or liabilities which he may otherwise have incurred. 

310. Application of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910,i— Notwithstanding anything 
in this chapter all matters relutmg to the generation, transmission, supply or use 
of electrical energy in a municipality shall be regulated by the provisions of the 
Indian Electricity Act, 1910 (IX of 1910). 

311. Power to make rules. — The State GovernmenS may make rules to regu- 
late — 

(a) the preparation of plans and estimates for water works or for the intro- 

duction of a system of lighting by electricity, or gas, or of drainage 
or sewerage, where such works or system are or is to be partly or 
wholly constructed or carried out at the expense of the Commissioners; 

(b) the power of the Commissioners or the State Government to accord 

sanction to such plans and estimates; 

(e) the publication in the Official Gazette of the particulars of, and the 
nature of any such, work or scheme, its cost, and the manner in which 
it is to be financed and carried out; 

(d) the size and nature of water works, mains, pipes, drains, sewers or 

channels to be constructed or laid by the Commissioners for the 
supply of water or gas, or for drainage or sewerage; 

(e) the maintenance of municipal water works and of pipes and fittings in 

connection therewith; 

(f) the size and nature of the stand-pipes or pumps to be erected by the 

Commissioners and of the ferrules and all pipes, stand-pipes, stop- 
jocks, taps, hydrants and other fittings, whether within or outside any 
premises that may be preset ibed or necessary for the regulation of 
‘he supply and use of water or gas; 



Sec. S(i)] THE CAZETTF, OF INDIA : JULY 29, I961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


IIII 


(g) the mains or pipes in which fire plugs are to be fixed and the places 

at which keys of the fire plugs are to be deposited; 

(h) the periodical analysis by a qualified analyst of the water supplied by 

the Commissioners; 

(i) the conservation of, and the prevention of injury or contamination to, 

sources and means of water-supply and appliances for the distribution 
of water, whether within or without the limits of the municipality; 

(j) the manner in which connections with water-works or with the lighting, 

drainage or sewerage system of the Commissioners shall or may be 
constructed, altered or maintained, the fees to be levied for such 
connections and the person by whom they shall he paid, and the 
agency to be employed for such construction, alteration or main- 
tenance; 

(k) the rates at which the charges for water or gas supplied may be levied 

by the Commissioners and the use, maintenance and testing of meters 
and the rebate, if any, to be allowed where a meter is found to be 
defective; 

(l) the regulation of all matters and things connected with the supply and 

use of water or gas, and the turning on and turning off and pre- 
venting the waste of water or gas; and 

fm) any other matter relating to the supplv of water or gas or of drainage or 
sewerage in respect of which this Act makes no provision or 
insufficient provision and further provision is, in the opinion of the 
State Government, necessary: 

Provided that in any rules made under this section regarding the construction 
or carrying out of any works for the supply of water or gas. or for drainage or 
sewerage by the Public Health Department provision shall be made that the 
Commissioners of the municipality concerned shall have an opportunity of seeing 
the terms of the contract for the execution of works, before it is executed. 

Chapter IX — Buildings 

Application of Schedule VI 

312. Application of Schedule VT. etc,— (1) The State Government may. bv 
notification, declare that Schedule VI or any part thereof shall be in force in such 
municipalities as may be specified in the notification and may, on the application 
of the Commissioners of a municlnality, cancel or modify such notification in 
respect of any municipality so specified. 


(2) The provisions contained in sections 315. 317 to 327 and 329 shall not apply 
to any municipality, unless and until they have been extended thereto hy a 
notification issued by the State Government when Schedule VI or any part there- 
of is brought into force under sub-section (1): 

• •••**»* 


Building -sites and erection of buildings 

313. Use of building-sites anfi erection of buildings. — No piece of land shall 

be used as a site for the erection of a building and no building shall be erected 

otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and of any rule 

or by-law made under this Act, relating to the use of building-sites or to the 
erection of buildings, as the case may be, and in municipalities where Schedule 

VI or part thereof is in force, In accordance with that Schedule or part thereof. 

314. Commissioners to determine site of proposed masonry building, — If any 

question arises as to what, for the purooses o f this Act, shall be deemed to he 
the site of any proposed masonry or framed building, the Commissioners at a 
meeting shall determine the same, and their decision shall be final. 

313. Masonry building not to be erected without special permission In certain 
cases.— -fl) Save with the special permission of the Commissioners at a meeting, 
no building ( other than a hut) shall be erected unless— 

(a) the site of such building abuts on a public street, or a projected public 
street or a private street duly sanctioned and constructed In 



m2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 21, 1QFJ/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


[Part II 


accordance with the provisions of this Act, or existing before the 
commencement of this Act, or 

(b) there is access to the building from any such street by a passage or 
pathway, appertaining to such site, and not less than six feet wide at 
any part. 

(2) No building shall be erected so as to deprive any masonry or, framed 
building of the means of access as provided in this section. 

Exemptions 

316. Exemptions. — The following buildings shall be exempted from the opera- 
tion of sections 315, 317 to 327 and 329, namely: — 

(a) any building erected and used or intended to be erected and used, 

exclusively for the purpose of accommodating a pump for pumping 
water to the highest storeys of a building, or exclusively for the pur- 
pose of a plant-house, summer-house (not being a dwelling-house), 
poultry house or aviary, if the building be wholly detached from, 
and at a distance of at least ten feet from, the nearest adjacent 
building; 

(b) any building erected or intended to be erected by, or with the sanction 

of the Commissioners, for use solely as a temporary hospital for the 
reception and treatment of persons suffering from any infectious or 
contagious disease; and 

(c) any hoarding or like means of protection (other than a masonry wall) 

which the owner of any premis°s certifies to the Chairman not less 
than seven days after its erection to have been erected for the purpose 
of preventing the threatened acquisition of anv easement over his 
own premises or any portion thereof, provided that Ihe stability of 
such hoarding or other means of protection is certified by the Chair- 
man. 


Application for sanction 

317 Application to erect building to be submitted In the prescribed form. — 

Everv person who intends lo erect a building shall first submit an application ir> 
the form prescribed in Schedule VT to the Commissioners together with such 
plans, specifications and other particulars as may be prescribed in that Schedule 
or in any rule or by-law made in this behalf. 

318. Permission to execute work -when to be given or refused. — (1) Within 

thirty days, or in th" case of huts, within fifteen davs after the receipt of anv 
application made under section 317. or of anv information or documents, which 
the Commissioners mav reasonably reauire the applicant to furnish before 
deciding whether Permission shall be granted to oxeeuV any work under the 
aforesaid section, the Commissioners shall, bv writt n order, either — 

(a) grant permission conditionally or unconditionally to execute the 

work, or 

(b) refuse, on one or more of the grounds mentioned in section 322, to 

grant such permission. 

(2) When the Commissioners grant permission conditionally under clause 
(a) of sub-section (1). they mav in regard thereto import such conditions, con- 
sistent with this Act, as they may think fit 

(3) Where permission has been refused under sub-section (1). an appeal shall 
fie to the Commissioners at a mo-ting, provided that no order passed bv the 
Commissioners at a meeting in resoeet of such appeal shall relax the provisions 
of section 322 or of Schedule VI or of any rule or by-law made under this Act. 

319. Permission to be implied If Commissioners default In enmlnsr to a 
decision. — If within the period prescribed bv section 318 the Commissioners have 
neither granted nor refused to grant permission tn execute anv work, such per- 
mission shall be deemed to have been granted: and the applicant mav proceed to 
execute the work but not so as to contravene anv of the provisions of this Act 
or of Schedule VI or of any rule or bv-law applying thereto. 

320. Notice after completion of work —Within one monlh after the completion 
of the erection of a new building fotber than a butt or a habitable portion of 
such building the owner of the building shall send to the Commissioners a written 
notice of the fact of such completion 



Sec. 3(i)] TI1E GAZE1TE OF INDIA; JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


321. Inspection of work requiring sanction. — (1) The Chairman or any other 
person authorized by the Commissioners in this behalf may, at any time, and 
without notice, inspect any work in respect of which an application is required 
under section 317 — 

(a) while under construction, or 

(b) within one month of the receipt of the notice of completion sent under 

section 320, or, in default of such notice, at any time after completion. 

(2) If, on making any inspection under sub- section (1) the Chairman or other 
person so authorized finds that the building inspected is being or has been 
erected — 


(a) subject to the provisions of section 319, otherwise than in accordance 
with the plans thereof which the Commissioners have approved, or 

Cb) in such a way as to contravene any of the provisions of this Act or of 
Schedule VI or of any rule or by-law made in this behalf. 

the Chairman may, by written notice, require the owner of the building either 
to make such alterations as may be specified in the notice with the object of 
bringing the work into confromity with the said plans or provisions, as the case 
may be, or to appear before the Commissioners at a meeting and show cause 
why such alterations should not be made. 


(3) If such owner does not appear and show cause under sub-section (2) he 
shall be bound to make the alterations specified in such notice. 

(4) If such owner appears and shows cause under sub-section (2), the Com- 
missioners shall, after hearing him, either — 

(a) cancel the notice issued under that sub-section or 


(b) confirm the same, subject to such modifications (if any) as they may 
think fit. 

322. Grounds on which permission to erect a masonry building may be refused.— 

The only grounds on which permission to erect a building may be refused 
are the following, namely: — 

(a) that the work, or any of the particulars comprised in the plans or 

specifications would contravene some specific provision of this Act 
or of Schedule VI or of some specific rule or by-law made in this 
behalf; or 

(b) that the application for such permission does not contain the parti- 

culars or is not prepared in the manner prescribed in Schedule VI 
or in any rule or by-law made in this behalf; or 

(c) that any of the documents referred to in Schedule VI or in any rule 

or by-law made in this behalf have not been signed in the manner 
prescribed; or 

(d) that any information or documents required by the Commissioners 

under this Act or Schedule VI or under any rule or by-law made 
in this behalf has or have not been duly furnished; or 

(e) * 

(f) that the applicant has not satisfied the Commissioners in regard to 

any objections which may have been taken on any of the grounds 
mentioned in this section, to the grant of the said permission. 

323. Power as to inflammable structures, — (1) The Commissioners at a 
meeting may, by public notice, direct that, within certain limits to be fixed by 
them, the roofs and external walls of huts or other buildings shall not be made 



IH4 


1’HE GAZETTE Ol' INDIA : JULY 29, I IiilySR WANA 7, 1383 


[Part II 


or renewed with grass, mats, leaves or other highly inflammable materials with- 
out their consent m writing. 

(2) The Commissioners at a meeting may, at any time by written notice 
require the owner of any building which has an external roof or wall made of 
any such materials as aforesaid to remove such roof or wall within such reason- 
able time as shall be specified in the notice, notwithstanding that a public notice 
under sub-section (1) has not been issued or that such roof or wall was made 
with the consent of the Commissioners or before the issue of such public notice, 
if any: 

Provided that in the case of any such roof or wall in existence before the issue 
of such public notice or made with the consent of the Commissioners, they shall 
make compensation for any damage caused bv the removal which shall not 
exceed the original cost of constructing the roof or wall 

324. Power to Commissioners to cancel permission on the ground of material 
misrepresentation by applicant. — If, at any time, permission to erect any masonry 
or framed building has been given, and the Commissioners at a meeting arc 
satisfied that such permission was granted in consequence of any material mis- 
representation or fraudulent statement contained in the application made under 
section 317, or in the plans, elevations, sections or specifications submitted there- 
with in respect of such building, they may cancel such permission, and any work 
done thereunder shall be deemed to have been done without permission. 

325. Duration and expiry of permission to erect a building. — (1) A permission 
to erect a building, granted under this chapter, shall, unless it is renewed on an 
application made to the Commissioners for this purpose, continue onlv for one 
year after the date on which it is granted, uni -as the work of erection has been 
commenced within that period and in any case shall not continue for a period 
longer than two years from the said date unless it is so renewed. 

(2) Any person who erects a building or continues the work of erection of a 
building, when the permission granted under this chapter has expired, shall be 
deemed to erect such building or to continue such work without sanction. 

Application of Act to alterations of and. additions to, buildings 

326. Application of Act to alterations of and additions to buildings. — (11 The 

provisions of — 

(a) this chapter, 

(b) Sch dule VI. and 

(c) any rules or by-laws made under this Act, 

relating to the erection of buildings, shall also apply to every material alteration 
1 of, or addition to, any building, but shall not apply to necessary repairs not 
involving any of the works which constitute a material alteration or addition. 

(2) Any alteration or addition in or to a building shall, for the purposes of 
this chapter and of Schedule VI and of any rule or by-law, be deemed to be 
material if — 

(a) it increases, or diminishes the height of, the area covered by, or the 

cubical capacity of the building, or any part thereof, or r -duces the 
height, area or cubical capacity of any room in the building below 
the minimum prescribed in Schedule VI, or in any rule or by law; or 

(b) it affects or is likely to affect prejudiciallv the stability or safety of 

the building or the condition of the building in respect of drainage, 
ventilation, sanitation or hygiene; or 

(c) it converts into a place for human habitation a building or part of a 

building originally constructed for other purposes; or 

(d) It Is an alteration or addition d ‘■dared by Schedule VI or by any rule 

or by-law made in this behalf to be a material alteration or addition. 

13) If any question arises as to whether any addition or alteration is a neces- 
sary repair not affecting the position, safety, stability. u~e, sanitary condition or 
dimensions of a building or room, such question shall be r -ferred to the Com- 
missioners at a meeting and the decision of the Commissioners shall be final. 



Sue. .S (I)] THF. GAZETTE OE INDIA: JULY 29, 1961/5RAVANA 7, 1883 II 15 


327. Rules.— (1) In alteration of, addition to, or cancellation of Schedule VI the 
State Government may make rules — 

(a) for the regulation or restriction of the use o." land as sites for building, 

and 

(b) for the regulation and restriction of building and of alterations in, or 

additions to, building. 

(2) When Schedule VI has be n so altered, added to or cancelled, any 
reference made in this Act to the said Schedule shall be construed as a reference 
to the Schedule as amended under sub-section (1) or, if the Sch.dule has been 
cancelled, to the rules substituted therefor. 

328. Special provisions in respect of less advanced municipalities. — (1) The 

Commissioners of any municipality to which the provisions of Schedule VI are 
not extended under section 312 shall at a meeting, if the State Governm.nt so 
requires, provide by means of by-laws for the control of the erection of buildings 
and of material alterations and additions to buildings to give t fleet to the pro- 
visions of this Act and of that Schedule in this benalf to such extent as local 
circumstances permit and subject to such modifications as local circumstances 
may require. 

12) Where the provisions of Schedule VI are ext nded only in part to any 
municipality the Commissioners shall, at a meeting, if the State Government so 
requires, regulate by means of by-laws the matt rs that are regulated by that 
part of Schedule VI which is not extended to such municipality. 

329. Powers to make by-laws regulating buildings. — (1) The Commissioners of 
a municipality to which the provisions of Schedule VI have be.n extended under 
this Act in whole or in part may, and when required by the State Government 
shall, make at a meeting by-laws, consistent with this Act and Schedule VI (or 
the part thereof extended to the municipality) applicable to building-sitds or to 
buildings generally or to uny class of buildings within the whole or any part of 
the municipality, and may by such by-laws— 

(a) determine the plans, specifications and other documents or particulars 

to be furnished with any application made for permission to construct, 
add to or alter house-drains, privies or urinals; 

(b) d. Clare an alteration or addition of any specific description to be a 

material alteration or addition although not falling within the scope 
of clauses (a), (b) or (c) of sub-section (2) of section 326; 

(e) prescribe that, on payment of fees in accordance with such scale as is 
specified in this behalf, plans and specifications shall be obtainable 
from the Commissioners or from any agency prescribed by the Com- 
missioners; 

(d) prescribe the type or description of buildings which may or may not, 

and the purposes for which a building may or may not, be erected 
in any specified area or areas; 

(e) prescribe that builders and surv yors shall be licensed and that the 

erection of buildings shall not be permitted except by licensed 
builders and surveyors; 

(f) prescribe the fees, to be paid by build rs and surveyors for obtaining 

a license and the qualifications to be possessed by them; and 

(g) prescribe, with reference to the or ction of buildings, all or any of the 

following matters: — 

(i) the materials and method of construction to be used for external and 

party walls, roofs and floors; 

(ii) the regulation of sites for buildings, and the materials and method 

of construction of fire-places, chimneys, drains, privies, urinals and 
cesspools; 

(iii) the ventilation and flushing of drains, latrines, urinals and cesspools, 

and the provision of access thereto from streets and where a 
sewerage system has been provided, the connection of service 
privies with a sewer and th? method of the connection; 

(iv) the proportion of any building-site, which shall not be built over, the 

amount of space to be left at the sides and back of any building 
and the area of courtyards in proportion to the floor area of rooms 
abutting thereon; 



Ul 6 1HF GA7EITF OF INDIA JUI Y 29, 1%1/SR WAN V 7, 1883 [Part II 


(v) the height of any building oi portion of a fcxnlding in relation to the 

width of the street or streets on which it abuts and to the space left 
open at the back of the building and forming a part of the site, 
and the height of any building or portion of a building abutting 
on a courtyard; 

the level, drainage and paving of courtyards; 

(vi) the width of foundation, height of plinth, and stability of structure, 

(vii) the minimum floor area, minimum height, and ventilation of rooms 

used or intended to be used for human habitation, 

(vih) any other matter affecting the ventilation or sanitation of the 
building, 

(x) the laying out of huts in a bustee in accordance with alignment 
lmes, prescribed and demarcated on the ground; 

(x) the laying out of huts in a bustee in accordance with alignment lines, 

prescribed and demarcated on the ground, 

(xi) the distance to be kept open between huts and alignment lines, 

(xn) the means to be provided for egress from public buildings in case of 
Are; 

(xm) regulating in any manner not specifically provided for in this Act, 
the erection of any enclosure, wall, fence, t j nt, awning or other 
structure, of whatsoever kind or nature (other than a hogla or 
similar kind of temporary shed erected on ceremonial festive 
occasions), on any land within the limits of the municipality, and 

(xiv) special rules in respect of any of the foregoing matters for apy parti- 
cular type or class of buildings which are used or which it is 
intended to use for any particular purpose 

(2) By-laws made by the Commissioners of a municipality to which the 
provisions of Schedule VI have not been extended or have only been extended 
in part, shall be subject to the approval of the State Government and may pro 
vide for any of the matters specified in clauses (a) to (g) of sub-section (1) and 
also for the regulation of building-sites withm the municipality, but shall not 
be inconsistent with any portion of thi» Act which applies to such municipality 
or with any portion of Schedule VI or any rule made thereunder which has been 
extended thereto. 

330 Order for demolition or alteration of buildings In certain cases — (1) If 

the Commissioners are satisfied— 

(a) that the erection of any building— 

(i) has been commenced without obtaining their written permission 
under section 318 otherwise than under the provisions of section 
319, or 

(li) is being carried on or has been completed otherwise than in 
accordance with the particulars on which such permission or orders 
was or were based, or after such permission has been lawfully 
withdrawn, or 

(ni) is being carried on or has been completed in breach of any provision 
contained in this Act or in Schedule VI or in any rules or by-laws 
made in this behalf or of any condition, modification, direction or 
requisition lawfully given or made under this Act or Schedule VI 
or under such rules or by-laws, or 

(b) that any material alteration of, or addition to, any building has been 

commenced or is being carried on or has been completed m breach 
of any provision contained in this Act or Schedule VI or In any rules 
or by-laws made in this behalf, or 

(c) that any alterations required by any notice issued under sub-section 

(2) of section 321, have not been duly made, 

they may, in addition to any prosecution that may be instituted under this Act, 
apply to a Magistrate and such Magistrate may make an order directing that such 
erection, alteration, or addition as the case may be, or so much thereof as has 
b=en executed unlawfully as mentioned in clauses (a), (b) or (c), or that any 
structure specified in the application or plans or specification submitted under 



Sec. S(i)] THE GA/ETTE Ol INDIA: JUDY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7. 1883 ni? 


section 317 as a structure to be demolished or altered before the new building 
was erected or the material alterations or additions were made shall— 

(i) be demolished by the owner thereof or altered by him to the satis- 

faction of the Commissioners, as the case may require, or 

(ii) be demolished or altered by the Commissioners at the expense of the 

said owner. 

(2) The Magistrate may make any order under this section notwithstanding the 
fact that a valuation of such building has been made by the Commissioners under 
Chapter V for the assessment of any rate or ratiS, but shall not make any such 
order without giving the owner of the building to be so demolished or altered full 
opportunity of adducing evidence and of being heard in his defence. 

331. Order for demolition or alteration of buildings In other cases, — (1) In any 

of the following cases, namely: — 

(a) if the owner of any building erected or added to bitween a street 

alignment and the building-line fails to remove such building or 
addition when called upon to do so under section 218, or 

(b) if any person who makes any additions to a building in pursuance of 

an agreement executed under sub-section (4) of section 218, fails 
to remove such additions when called upon to do so, or 

(c) if the owner of any building erected or added to under the proviso to 

sub-section (1) of section 218, fails to remove such building or 
addition when called upon to do so, or 

(d) if, within the period prescribed in any notice requiring the owner or 

occupier of a building to comply with any condition on which the 
erection of any verandah or other projection was permitted under 
sub-section (2) of section 235, such condition is not complied with, 
or 

(e) if, within the period prescribed in any notice issued under sub-scction 

(4) of section 235 requiring the owner or occupier of a building to 
remove a verandah or other projection, the same be not duly 
removed, or 

(f) if, within the period prescribed in any notice issued under sub section 

(2) of section 323, requiring the owner of a building to remove or 
alter an external roof or wall made of inflammable material, the same 
be not duly removed or altered, or 

(g) if the owners or occupiers neglect to execute any works or to take any 

measures required by any notice issued on them under sections 203, 
364, 305, 367, or 380, 

the Commissioners may in addition to any prosecution that may be instituted 
under this Act, apply to a Magistrate, and such Magistrate may make an order 
directing that the projection, building, portion of the building, block of buildings, 
verandah, fixture, additions, roof or wall, or huts, as the case may be, shall — 

(i) be demolished by the owner thereof or altered by him to the satis- 

faction of the Commissioners, as the case may be, or 

(ii) be demolished or altered by the Commissioners at the expense of such 

owner. 

(2) The Magistrate may make any order under this section notwithstanding 
the fact that a valuation of such building has been made by the Commissioners 
under Chapter V fo r the assessment of any rate or rates, but shall not make any 
such order without giving the owner of the structure to be so demolished or 
altered full opportunity of adducing evidence and of being heard in his defence. 

332. Institution of prosecutions for offences referred to in section 330 or section 
331. — Notwithstanding anything contained in section 532 or section 533 no prosecu- 
tion for an offence leferred to in section 330 or section 331 shall be Instituted with- 
out the order or consent of the Commissioners at a meeting and the Commissioners 
before passing such order or giving such consent shall give to the owner or 
occupier of the building an opportunity of showing cause why such prosecution 
should not be instituted. 

333. Power of Commissioners to stop erection of new buildings in certain 

cases. — (1) In any case in which the erection of a new building, or any other work 
referred to in section 330 or section 331, has been commenced, or Is being carried 



IIl8 the GAZETTE Oi INDIA: JULY «J, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 [Part II 


on unlawfully as mentioned In those sections, the Commissioners may, by written 
notice, require the person carrying on such erection or other unlawful work to 
discontinue the same, pending the decision of a Magistrate on an application to be 
made to him under that section. 

(2) If any notice Issued under sub-section (1) is not duly complied with, the 
Commissioners may, with the assistance of the police if necessary, take such steps 
as they may deem needful in order to stop the continuance of the unlawful work. 

(3) If it appears to the Commissioners that it is necessary in order to prevent 
the continuation of the unlawful work, to depute any police or municipal officer 
to watch the premises, the cost of providing the same shall be borne by the person 
to whom the said notice was addressed. 

Chaper X— Bustees 
Preliminary 

334. Application of Chapter X. — The provisions contained in this chapter shall 
not apply to any municipality, unless and until they have wholly or in part, been 
extended thereto by a notification issued by the State Government in this behalf: 

*•*••**» 

335. Power to Commissioners to define limits of bus tee — (i) The Commission- 
ers at a meeting may define the external limits of any bustee, and may from 
time to time alter such limits, 

(2) None of the powers conferred by any of the following sections of this 
chapter shall be exercised in respect of — 

(a) any bustee the total area of which, as comprised within the limits defined 

under sub-section (1), is less than two bighas, or 

(b) any masonry building existing In a bustee at the time when a standard 

plan is approved or alignments are prescribed under the provisions 

of this chapter for such bustee, as the case may be. 

Sanitary measures with regard to busteeg 

336. Power of Commissioners as to Inspection of huts,— (1) If it appears to the 

Commissioners at a meeting that the condition of any bustee is insanitary or 
attended with risk of disease to the inhabitants of the neighbourhood, by reason 

of the manner in which the huts are constructed or crowded together, or of want 

of drainage, the impracticability of scavenging or for any other reason, they may 
after giving notice to the owners of the bustee cause the locality to be inspected 
by two persons appointed in this behalf, one of whom shall be registered medical 
practitioner or a person holding the diploma of Public Health and the other an 
engineer, 

(2) The said persons shall forthwith — 

(a) sign and submit a written report on the insanitary condition of the said 

bustee, 

(b) annex to the report a plan approved by them as the standard plan of 

such bustee, and 

(c) specify In a schedule to be attached to the said report, as the improve- 

ments considered necessary to remove or abate the insanitary condition 

of the bustee, — 

(i) the huts which should, wholly or in part, be removed; 

(ii) the streets, passages, drains and sewers which should be constructed; 

(iii) the means of lighting, water-supply, common bathing arrangements and 

common privy accommodation to be provided for the use of tenants; 

(iv) the tanks, wells and low lands which should be filled up; and 

iv) auy other Improvements they consider necessary in order to remove or 
abate the insanitary condition of the bustze. 

A report (together with the schedule annexed thereto) made and signed under 
this section shall be sufficient evidence of the result of such inspection, 

337. Power to serve notice. — On receipt of the said report, the Commissioners 
at a meeting after hearing the objections (if any) of the owners of the bustee in 
respect of which the report has been made may approve the plan and schedule 
after making such modifications (If any) therein as they may think fit and may 
require the said owners or the owners or occupiers of the huts referred to in sub- 
clause (i) of clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 330, or both of the owners of 
the hustee and the owners and occupiers of the huts, to carry out and execute, 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA • JULY 29, 1%1/SRAVANA 7. 1883 


III9 


within a time to be fixed by the Commissioners for such purpose, all or any of the 
works specified in the aforesaid schedule or any portion thereof, respectively. 

338. Payment of expenses incurred in carrying' out improvements. — When any 
improvements required by a notice under section 337 are carried out by the Com- 
missioners under the provisions of this Act, all expenses incurred thereby, including 
such reasonable compensation as the Commissioners at a meeting may think fit to 
pay the owners or occupiers of huts removed shall be paid by the owners of the 
bustee, to the Commissioners and shall constitute a charge upon such bustee : 

Provided that, notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this Act, if It 
appears to the Commissioners at a meeting that any such owner is unable, by reason 
of poverty, to pay such expenses, or any portion thereof, in the case of expenses 
relating to work, which should in the opinion of the Commissioners have been done 
by the owners or occupiers of huts within the bustee, they may order the same or 
any portion thereof to be paid out of the Municipal Fund, and in the case of 
expenses, which should be paid by the owner of the bustee, they may order the 
same or any portion thereof to be advanced out of the Municipal Fund, but there- 
after to constitute a charge upon such bustee. 

339. Disposal of material of huts pulled down.— fl) If in carrying out any 
improvements required by a notice under section 337, the Commissioners cause any 
but or portion 6f a hut to be pulled down, they shall — 

(a) cause the materials of such hut or portion of a hut to be given to the 

owner of the hut, If such owner elects to take them, or 

(b) if the owner does not elect to take the materials, or If the owner be un- 

known or the title to the hut be disputed, cause such materials to be 
sold, and hold In deposit the proceeds of the sale together with any 
sum awarded as compensation under section 338. 

(2) Any amount held in deposit under clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall be so 
held hy the Commiss'oners until any person ohtains an order from a competent 
Court for the payment to him of such amount. 

340. Power to purchase or acquire masonry building! or land in Bustee. — fl) An 

masonry building in a bustee, and any land appertaining to such building which it 
may be necessary to purchase or acquire for the purpose of making the streets or 
of passages, or of effecting any of (he improvements speciiled in the schedule 
referred to in section 33G, shall he shown in the standard plan referred in that sec- 
tion, and the Commissioners may at any time after the receipt of the report made 
under that section, purchase or acquire — 

(a) any such masonry building, or 

(b) any land appertaining to such building, or 

(c) any such building, together with the land appertaining theieto or any 

portion thereof, 

which is mentioned In that behalf In the schedule. 

(2) Save as Is provided in this section none of the powers conferred under the 
provisions of this chapter shall be exercised in respect of any building or land 
referred to in clauses (a), (b) or (c) of sub-section (1), but the fact that a masonry 
huildlng is situated In a bustee shall not prevent action being taken with reference 
to such bustee under the provisions of this chapter. 

341. Streets and passages shown in standard plan, if not public streets, to re- 
main private. — fl) Every street or passage in a bustee which is shown in a stand- 
ard plan approved under this chapter for that bustee and which is not already a 
public street shall, unless the Commissioners and the owners of the land on which 
such street Or passage is situated otherwise, consent as provided in section 229, be 
deem- d to be a private street; and the portion thereof which falls on the land of 
each owner shall belong to such owner: 

Provided that any protlon of any such street or passage which is situated on 
land purchased or acquired by the Commissioners under section 340 shall remcin 
the property of the Commissioners, 

(2) Every such private street shall, at all times, be kept open for scavenging 
purposes and for all other purposes of this Act in such manner as the Commissioners 
may require, and shall also be kept open for the use of all the tenants of the bustee- 



1120 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 20, 19G1/SRAVANA 7, IB83 [Part II 


Provided that, notwithstanding anything contained In the Indian Limitation Act, 
1908 (IX of 1008), no use of any such street shall, by reason of any lapse of time' 
be held to confer a right-of-way on the public so as to bring the street within the 
definition of a public street, 

342. Bathing arrangements and privy accommodation in bustee, as shown in 
standard plan, to be kept open for use for tenants. — Th ; bathing arrangements and 
privy accommodation In a bustee which are shown in the standard plan app'-oved 
under this chapter for such bustee as being common to the use of all or some of 
the tenants of the bustee, shall at all times be kept available for the use of such 
tenants : 

Provided that, notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Limitation Act, 
1908, if at any time the land on which any such bathing arrangements or privy- 
accommodation are provided ceases to form part of such bustee, no such use shall, 
by reason of any lapse of time, be held to confer any right on any person so as 
prejudicially to affect the rights of the owner of such land. 

343. Owner of land in bustee to maintain certain conveniences on his land.— 

(1) Tire owner of any land in a bustee for which a standard plan has been 
approved under this chapter shall maintain in proper order and repair to the 
satisfaction of the Commissioners, such streets, passages, drains, common bath- 
ing arrangements, common privy accommodation, means of lighting, means of 
water-supply and other works on such land as may be shown in the plan. 

(2) The Commissioners may, at any time, cause a written notice to be served 
upon such owner requiring him so to maintain such streets, passages, drains, 
common bathing arrangements, common privy accommodation, means of lighting, 
means of water-supply and other works: 

Provided that any convenience made by the owner of a hut for his own use 
shall, subject to such notice as aforesaid, be maintained by him and not by the 
owner of the bustee. 

344. Power to owner to take land out of the category of bustee in certain cases. — 
(1) The owner of any land included in a bustee and forming a separate holding 
may, at any time, whether or not a standard plan has been prepared for the 
bustee, notify the Commissioners in writing that he intends to remove all the 
huts standing on such land. 

(2) The receipt of any such notice shall not debar the Commissioners from 
approving a standard plan of such bustee. 

(3) From the date of such notice no application shall be entertained for erecting 
on such land any hut or adding to any hut standing thereon, 

(4) Puch owner shall, within six months after the date of such notice, or with- 
in such further time as the Commissioners at a meeting may from time to time 
allow, remove all huts standing on such land; and if he does not do so, the notice 
shall be deemed to be cancelled. 

(5) When all such huts have been so removed, such land shall according to its 
situation either—' 

(i) he altogether excluded from the limits of the bustee, or 

(ii) be shown, in a standard plan approved for the bustee under this 

chapter, as not being a part of such bustee: 

Provided that if, in the standard plan any street or passage is shown on such 
land, the provisions of sections 341 and 343 shall, with ail necessary modifications, 
be deemed to apply to such street or passage, unless the Commissioners at a meet- 
ing otherwise direct, 

(6) If after all the huts have been removed under sub-section (4) any applica- 
tion is received for erecting any hut on such land, the Commissioners may, by 
written notice, require the owner of the land to carry out such improvements in- 
cluded in the standarci plan as they may think fit. 

(7) When all the huts standing on any land within a bustee have been 
removed under sub-section (4), the Commissioners at a meeting may either — 

(a) cancel the standard plan (if any), already approved under this chapter 

for such bustee, or 

(b) tuodifv such plan, after hearing the objections (if any) of any owner of 

land included in such bustee. 



Sec. 8(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 196I/5RAVANA 7, 1888 


II2I 


(8) When any land, formerly included in a bustee , ceases to be so included, 
and where any street or passage was shown on such land in the standard plan, and 
where, on such land ceasing to be so included, the Commissioners at a meeting do 
not consider It to be practicable, or do not consider it to be expedient to change 
the alignment of such street they shall, in applying the proviso to sub-section (5) 
to such street, compensate the owner of such land for any area that is included 
in such street, which is in excess of one-seventh of the entire area of the land, 
which ceases to be included, in the bustee, 

345. Power to Commissioners to prescribe alignments for bustee streets. — (1) 
In any bustee in respect of which a standard plan has not been prepared, or in any 
area in which it appears to the Commissioners that huts are likely to be erected, 
the Commissioners at a meeting may, after hearing the objections, if any, of any 
owner of land in such bustee, prescribe alignments, not more than sixteen feet in 
width, for such private streets a? they may think fit. 

(2) When the land within such bustee or area is owned by more owners than 
one, each owning one or more separate plots of such land, such alignments shall 
as far as practicable be so prescribed as not to occupy, within any such plot, more 
than one-fifth of the area thereof, and shall not ordinarily be less than two 
hundred and fifty feet apart. 

(3) If, in any such plot, more than one-fifth of the area thereof is occupied by 
such alignments, the Commissioners shall pay reasonable compensation to the 
owner of the plot: 

Provided that no such compensation shall be paid in respect of any such plot as 
long as any hut or other structure other than a masonry building Is left standing 
in the plot within any such alignment. 

(4) No hut or portion of a hut shall be erected within any alignment prescribed 
under sub-section (1), 

(5) The provisions of section 341 shall, with all necessary modifications, be 
deemed to apply to every street, the alignment for which has b:cn prescribed under 
this section. 

346. Power to Commissioners to require removal of existing huts within street 
or hut alignment in bustee .■ — ( 1 ) In any bustee, at any time after the expiration of 
seven years from the time when any alignment has been prescribed for a street or 
for huts under section 345, the Commissioners at a meeting may, by written notice, 
require the owner of the land or the owners or occupiers of existing huts to re- 
move such huts or portions thereof as fall — 

(i) within any such prescribed street alignment, or 

(il) within six feet on cither side of any such prescribed hut alignment, 
as the case may be. 

(2) When a hut has been removed under the provisions of sub-section (1), the 
Commissioners at a meeting shall pay to the owner thereof such compensation as 
they may consider to be reasonable, but such compensation shall in no case exceed 
the value of the hut less the value of the materials thereof, 

347. Power to Commissioners to require space to be kept between masonry 
building In bustees and centre line of bustee street. — Any person who erects a 
masonry building — 

(a) in any bustee in respect of which a standard plan has been approved 

under section 337, or 

(b) in any bustee or area in respect of which alignments for streets have 

been prescribed under section 345; 

shall, if so required by written notice issued by the Commissioner at a meeting, 
leave a clear space of fifteen feet between the centre line of any street or passage 
shown in such plan, or of any street, the alignment for which has been so prescrib- 
ed, as the case may be. and the nearest part of such building. 

Chapter XI — Purity of wateh-suppi.y 

348. Power to set apart wells, tanks, etc., for drinking, culinary, bathing and 
washing purposes, — The Commissioners may, by order published at such places a3 
they think fit. set apart any tank, well, spring or water-course or any part thereof, 
vested In or under their control, or with the consent of the owner thereof, any tank, 
■well, spring or water-course or part thereof subject to any rights which the owner 



1122 


[Part II 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1X31 y SR A VAN A 7, 1883 


may retain with the consent erf the Commissioners for any of the following pur- 
poses, namely — 

(a) for the supply of water for drinking or for culinary purposes or for 

both, or 

(b) for the purpose of bathing, or 

(e) for washing animals or clothes, or 

(d) for any other purpose connected with the health, cleanliness or comfort 
of the inhabitants, 

and may by like order prohibit bathing or the washing of animals or clothes or 
other things at any public place not set apart for that purpose, or at any time or by 
a sex other than that specified in the order and may in like manner prohibit any 
other act by which water in public places may be rendered foul or unfit for use 
or which causes or is likely to cause inconvenience or annoyance to persons law- 
fully using such places, 

349. Power to reunite cleansing of sources of water for drinking or culinary 
purposes.- — The Commissioners may, by notice, require the owner of, or tbg person 
having control over, a private tank, well, spring or water-course or other place, the 
water of which is used for drinking or culinary purposes, to clean the same from 
time to time of silt, refuse or decaying vegetation, and may also require him to 
protect the same from pollution in such manner as to the Commissioners may seem 
fit, and in the case of a well to repair the same. 

350. Power to prohibit use of polluted water for drinking or culinary purposes. — 

If the Commissioners at a meeting after due inquiry are satisfied that the water 
of any tank, well, spring or watey-course, or part thereof or other place, used or 
likely to be used for drinking or culinary purposes, Is, If so used, liable to engender 
or cause the spread of disease, and that owing to Its situation or other cause such 
place cannot effectively be protected from pollution, or if the owner of, or person 
having control over, any such place refuses or neglects to comply with a requisition 
of the Commissioners under section 349, the Commissioners may — 

(a) by public notice prohibit the use or removal of water from such place 

for drinking or culinary purposes during a period to be specified in 
the notice and take such steps as they may consider necessary to 
prevent the use or removal of water for such purposes, or 

(b) in the case of a private well, require the owner of, or person having 

control over it to close It permanently or to fill It up with suitable 
material. 

351. Power to inspect and disinfect sources of water used for drinking or 
culinary purposes. — The Commissioners or any person authorised by them in this 
behalf may, at all reasonable times. Inspect and disinfect any tank, well, spring or 
water-course or other place from which water Is, or is likely to be, taken for 
drinking or culinary purposes. 

352. Analysis of water for drinking or culinary purposes. — (1) The State Gov- 
ernment may make rules to provide for the proper analysis of the water of any 
water-works, tanks, well, spring or water-course or other place, used or likely to 
be used for drinking or culinary purposes in any municipality and in particular 
may — 

(a) require the Commissioners to make over at such times and places and 

to such person or persons as the Superintendent, Victoria Memorial 
Hospital, Agartala, may appoint In this behalf, samples of water taken 
under such precautions and in such manner as the Superintendent, 
Victoria Memorial Hospital, Agartala, may prescribe, 

(I) from the water-works of the Commissioners where any exist, or 

(II) where no water-works exist or where any water used for domestic or 

culinary purposes Is drawn from any tank, well, spring or water-course 
or other source of supply then from any such tank, well, spring or 
water-course or other source of supply or as the Superintendent, 
Victoria Memorial Hospital, Agartala, may at any time specify In this 
behalf; 

(b) prescribe a scale of fees to be paid by the Commissioners for the 

analysis which shall be made of the afore-mentioned samples under 
the direction of the Superintendent, Victoria Memorial Hospital, 
Agartala, 



Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


1123 


(2) Where any tank, well, spring or water-course or other source of supply is 
not within the control of the Commissioners, they shall nevertheless have full 
power to take water in such manner as they may think proper from any of the 
-above sources of supply for the purpose of furnishing samples to the Superintendent, 
Victoria Memorial Hospital, Agartala. 

353. Application for analysis by Public Analyst of water for domestic purposes. — 

■On tbe representation of two qualified medical practitioners or ten or more persons 
to the Commissioners of any municipality within whose juiisdiction they reside, 
that within the municipality the water in any tank, well, spring or water-course, 
public or private, used or likely to be used for drinking or culinary purposes or 
for the manufacture of aerated or other drinks for human consumption is SO 
polluted as to be injurious to health, the Commissioners shall forward a sample of 
such water to the Public Analyst for analysis at the cost of the Commissioners 
and if the Public Analyst certifies that such water, if used for drinking or culinary 
purposes, is liable to engender or cause the spread of disease, the Commissioners 
shall take measures to remedy the same or require the owner or person having 
control over such source of supply to take such measures for this purpose as to the 
Commissioners may seem fit, or If suejr source of supply cannot in their opinion 
effectively be protected from pollution, then the Commissioners shall make such 
order as they think proper and are empowered to make under this Act: 

Provided that if the Commissioners are of opinion for reasons to be stated In 
writing that any representation made under this section Is frivolous or vexatious, 
they may, before forwarding a sample of the water to the Public Analyst, require 
the persons making the representation to deposit the cost of the analysis, which 
shall be refunded In the event of the Public Analyst granting the certificate referred 
to in this section. 

354. Fees for analysis of water. — Where the State Government have appointed 
* person to be the Public Analyst for such local area as may be defined under 
section 8 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954 (37 of 1954) the 
Commissioners maji, with the consent of the State Government, direct that any 
analysis prescribed under sections 352 and 353 of this Act shall be made by such 
an analyst on the payment of such fees by the Commissioners for whom the 
analysis may be made, as the State Government may fix. 

By-laws relating to public water-supply, etc. 

355. Power to make by-laws. — The Commissioners at a meeting may make by- 
laws regulating the use of, and the prevention of nuisances in regard to the public 
water-supply, "bathing and washing places, streams, channels, tanks and wells. 

Chapter XII— Insanitary and Dangerous Property 

396. Power to direct the filling up, etc., of unwholesome wells, pools, etc. — (1) 
When— 

(a) any well, pool, ditch, tank, pond, pit or marshy or undralned ground, or 

(b) any cistern, reservoir or water-butt or any other receptacle or place 

where water is stored or accumulated, or 

(c) any waste or stagnant water, whether within any private enclosure or 

not, 

appears to the Commissioners to be or to be likely to become injurious to health 
■or offensive to the neighbourhood, they may by written notice, require the owner 
or occupier of the land or building to which such well, cistern, reservoir, water-butt 
■or receptacle pertains, or of the land, as the case may be, In which such pool, ditch, 
tank, pond, pit, ground, place of water Is situated at the expense of such owner 
or occupier— 

(i) to cleanse the same, or 

(11) to re-excavate the same, or 

(iii) to fill up the same with suitable materials, or 

(iv) to drain off or to remove water from the sanu, 

or to take such other order therewith as the Commissioners may deem necessary 
within such period as may be specified in the notice. 

(2) If the Commissioners, in exercise of the powers conferred under this Act, 
•xecute any work referred to In a notice Issued under sub-section (1), and if the 



1124 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 2“ 1 061 /SR AVAN \ 7, 1SH£ [Past* 


person liable to pay the expenses of such work fails to pay the same, the Ccrniml*- 
sloners may, until such expenses are paid, — 

(i) take over and let out on lease any part of the land used in conneettaa 

with the said well, pool, ditch, tank, pond, pit, cistern, reservoir, wateiv 
butt, receptacle, place of water, or any part of the said ground, aa fb* 
case may be, or 

(ii) retain possession of the same, or the site thereof, and utilize it for 

public purposes, 

(3) If the said expenses be paid by an occupier of land, he may In the absence 
of any agreement to the contrary deduct the same from any rent clue to the owpe* 
of the land. 

357. Power to Commissioners to regulate excavations. — (1) No person shall; 
within a municipality without the special permission of the Commissioners, make 
an excavation for the purpose of taking earth therefrom, or for the making of 
bricks or for the purposes of strong rubbish or offensive matter therein or dig any 
cess-pools, tanks, ponds, wells, or pits: 

Provided that the Commissioners at a meeting may make such general exernpr- 
tions from the provisions of this section as may appear to them to be necessary lor 
the public convenience. 

(2) If any such excavation, cess-pool, tank, pond, well or pit is made' or do# 
without the permission required under sub-section (1), the Commissioners may* 
whether the offender be prosecuted or not, by written notice require the owner ox 
occupier of the land on which the same is made or dug to fill up the same with 
earth or other material approved by the Commissioners within such time as may 
be specified in the notice. 

358. Power to extend sections 356 and 357 beyond municipal limits.— The Conv 

mlssioners of a municipality may In consultation with any adjacent local authority 
and subject to the approval of the State Government, extend the provisions of 
sections 356 and 357 to any area beyond the municipality and may make such 
provision as to costs for execution of any work in the area as may be agreed upon 
between the Commissioners and the local authority, concerned. 

359. Wells, tanks, etc., to be secured. — (1) If any well, tank or other excavation^ 
whether on public or private ground, is, for want of sufficient repairs or pro- 
tection, dangerous to passengers, the Commissioners shall forthwith cause- a written 
notice to be served on the owner, if he be known and resident in the municipality, 
and also to be put on some conspicuous part of the premises or served on owners 
or occupiers (if any) of the land on which such tank, well or other excavation 
is situated requiring such owner or occupier forthwith properly to secure or protect 
such well, tank or other excavation, 

(2) The Commissioners may also, if It appears to them to be necessary so to 
do, cause a proper hoarding or fence or other means of protection to be put up. 
at the cost of the owner or occupier of such land for the safety of the public- 

360. Power to prohibit cultivation, use of manure or Irrigation injurious to 
health and to remove growth of water-hyacinth and other noxious plants. — If lh«r 

Commissioners at a meeting, after due inquiry, are satisfied that the cultivation of 
any description of crop, or the use of any kind of manure or the irrigation of land 
In any specified manner — 

(a) in any place within the limits of the municipality Is injurious to th® 

health of persons dwelling in the neighbourhood, or 

(b) in any place within or without the limits of the municipality, is HtaJy 

to contaminate the water-supply of the municipality or otherwise 
render it unfit for drinking or culinary purposes. 

or that any person is permitting the growth within or without the limits of the 
municipality of water-hyacinth, or such other noxious plants as may be certified 
in this behalf by the State Government as being a danger to the health of person* 
resident within the limits of the municipality or to navigation within those Hircfta 
the State Government may, on receipt of an application from the Commlssloraer*, 
by public notice, prohibit the cultivation of such crop, the use of such manure, or 
the use of the method of irrigation so certified to be injurious, or impose such 
conditions with respect thereto as may prevent the injury or, Ih tile case of water 



3*C. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


1125 


■hyacinth or such other noxious plant as may be in this behalf notified, may impose 
Hutch regulations as may secure the removal of the same: 

Provided that, if the act prohibited has been practised In the ordinary course of 
husbandry at any time djjrlng the five successive years last preceding the date erf 
the prohibition, compensation shall be paid from the Municipal Fund to all persons 
interested therein for any damage caused to them by such prohibition. 

361. Power to inspect premises for sanitary purposes.— The Commissioners may 
inspect any building or other premises for the purpose of acertalnlng the sanitary 
condition thereof: 

Provided that no such Inspection shall be made at night except by an officer 
specially authorised by the Commissioners in this behalf without giving reasonable 
notice. 

302. Power to require cleansing and lime-washing of building. — If it appears to 
"the Commissioners necessary for sanitary reasons so to do, they may, by written 
notice, require the owner or occupier of any building Inspected under section 361 
to cause the same or any portion thereof to be lime-washed cr otherwise cleansed 
either oxternally or internally or both externally and Internally. 


363. Power to require owners to clear noxious vegetation and to improve had 
drainage. — Whenever any land, being private property or within any private 
■enclosure, appears to the Commissioners, by reason of thick vegetation, under- 
growth or jungle, or inequalities of surface or by want of drainage, to be in a 
state injurious to health or offensive to the neighbourhood, the Commissioners 
may require the owners or occupiers or the owners and occupiers, of such land, 
within fifteen days to clear and remove such vegetation, undergrowth or jungle, 
or dress such surface or drain such land : 

Provided that if for the purpose of effecting any drainage under this section 
it shall he necessary to acquire any land not being the property of the person 
who Is required to drain his land, or to pay compensation to any other person, 
the Commissioners shall provide such land and pay such compensation. 

364. Power to demolish, repair or secure wall, building or fixture in a ruinoua 
state, etc. — (1) If any wall or building, or anything affixed thereto be deemed 
by the Commissioners to be in a ruinous state, or likely to fall, or to be in any 
way dangerous, they shall forthwith cause a written notice to be served on the 
owner, if he be known and resident in the municipality, and also to be put on 
some conspicuous part of the wall or building or served on the occupier (if 
any) of the building requiring such owner or occupier forthwith i to demolish, 
repair or secure such wall, building or thing as the case may require. 

(2) The Commissioners may also, if it appears to them to be necessary so to 
do, cause a proper hoarding or fence or other means of protection to be put up 
at the expense of the owner of such wall or building for the safety of the public 
or the inmates thereof, and may also, after giving them such notice as the Com- 
missioners may think necessary, require the inmates of the building to vacate 
It- 


(3) So far as they are in force in the municipality the provisions of this Act 
and of Schedule VI and of any rules or by-laws made under this Act relating 
to buildings shall apply to any work done in that municipality In pursuance, or 
in consequence, of a notice issued under sub-section (1). 

365. Power to prevent public danger, etc., from insecure or insanitary build- 

inf&i — (1) Whenever the Commissioners at a meeting consider — - 

(a) that any building, is by reason of its having no plinth or having a 
plinth of insufficient height, or by reason of the want of proper 
drainage or ventilation or by reason of the impracticability of 
cleansing, attended with risk to the health of the occupiers thereof 
or to the inhabitants of the neighbourhood or is, for any reason, 
likely to endanger the public health, or 
<b) that a block or group of buildings is, for any of the said reasons, or by 
reason of the manner in which the buildings are crowded together, 
attended with such risk as aforeaid, — 

they may by notice require the owners or occupiers of such building to build- 
ings or portions thereof, or, at the option of the Commissioners, the owners of 



1126 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29 1%1/SRAVANA 7, 1K83‘ [Fakt a 


the land occupied bv such building or buildings or portions thereof, to execute 
such works or to take such measures as they may d em necessary for the preven- 
tion of such risk. 

(2) No person shall be entitled to compensation for damages sustained by- 
reason of any act on taken under or in pursuance of this section, save when the 
building is demolished to the extent of more than half of its cubical contents in 
pursuance of an order made thereunder, In which case the Commissioners shall 
pay -easonable compensation to the owners thereof. 

(3) When any building is entirely demolished under th : s section and the 
demobt’on ther. of adds to the value of other buildings in the immediate vicinity,, 
the owners of such other buildings shall be bound to contr bute towards the 
compensation payable to the owner of the first named building in proportion to 
the increased value accruing to their own premises 

The amount of such contribution and the propn.'tions in which it : s to be 
divided among the owners of such other buildings shall be determmed by the 
Commis r oners at a meeting and shall be recoverable as though it were a rate 
under the provisions of Chapter V. 

( 4 ) When any bui'ding though not entirely demolished under this section is 
demolished to th extent of more than half of its cubical contents, allowance 
shall be made in determining the "omnensation for the benefit accruing to the 
premises from the improvement thereof. 

htil Any person aegreived by an order made hv the Commissioners under this 
s-'Ction may appeal to’ the State Government within thirty days and the decision 
of the Stn+e Government given after such inquiry as it thinks fit shatl be flnaL 

I'fi) The order made bv the Commissioners under this section shall not take 
effeci until the exniry of thirty days. or. if an anneal has been lodged until, the 
decision of the Stale Gov rnment is given under sub-section (5), 

3t!6 Procedure In cases of bulldtngs deemed unfit for human habitation. — 

G) Tf, for any reason, any building or portion nf a building intended for, or used 
as, a dwelling pla<w appears to the Commissioners at a meeting to be unfit for 
human habitation thev may require the owner or o'-cumcr of suja budding to 
make such alterations as they think necessary in the building i n order to make 
it fit for human habitation, : f they consider that this can be done but whether 
they think it can be made At for human habitation or not, they may, in either 
case, after giving the owner or occupier an opportunity of being heard, apply 
to a Magistrate to p ohibit the further use of such building or portion thereof 
for 3uch purpose; 

and the Magistrate shall serve a notice on such owner or occupier so as to 
give him an opportunity of being heard in the Court, and after such inquiry as 
he thinks fit to make, may, by written order, prohibit th’ further use thereof, 
or may pass such other order as he may deem just mid proper. 

(2) When any such prohibition has been made, the Commissioners may — 

(I) inspect such building by day or by night, and 

(II) take such order as may be necessary to preclude the further use of 

th~ same, o r of the portion specified in the prohibition as a human 
habitation. 

C3) When any such prohibition has been made, no owner or ocrupler of such 
building shall use, or suffer the same or the portion specified in the prohibition, 
to be used for human habitation until — 

(a) the Chairman cert'fles in writing that the causes rendering it unfit 

for human habitation have been removed to his satisfaction, or 

(b) the Magistrate, by written order, withdraws the prohibition. 

(4) The Commissioners shall prepare and maintain at the municipal office 
a list of buildings in respect of which the Magistrate has passed an order trader 
sub-section (1), and such list shall contain such particulars as to the action 
taken by the Commissioners or the owner in pursuance of such order or other- 
wise, as the Chairman shall think fit and shall be open to inspection by the 
public free of charge. 



Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : ]ULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 1 127 


367. Power to Commissioners to require demolition of building unfit for 
human habitation. — (1) When a Magistrate has prohibited the use cyf a building 
for human habitation under section 366 and such prohibition has been in force 
for three months, the Commissioners at a meeting shalt take into consideration 
the question of the demolition of such building, 

and shall give notice of the time (being some time not less than one month 
after the service of the notice) and place at which such question will be con- 
sidered to the owner, and to the occupier (if any) of the building, 

and the said owner and occupier shall be entitled to be heard when the 
question is so taken into consideration. 

(2) If. upon such consideration the Commissioners are of opinion that the 
building has not been rendered fit for human habitation, and_ that the necessary 
steps are not being taken with all due diligence to render it so fit, they shall 
caus° a written notice to be served on the said owner and occupier and also to 
be put on some conspicuous part of such building, requiring such owner ana 
occupier to demolish the building or any portion thereof as the case may be 
or 1o execute such work as in the opinion of the Commissioners at a meeting 
may be necessary to render the building fit for human habitation, 

(31 If such owner nr occupier undertakes to execute with due diligence 
the work necessary to render the building fit for human ' habitation, and the 
Commissmners consider that it ran be so rendered flt for human habitation, the 
Commissioners mav postpone the operation of the said notice for such time as 
they think sufficient for the purpose of giving the said owner or occupier an 
opportunity of executing the necessary work, 

363. Abatement of over crowding In dwelling-house or dweMing-place. — (1) If 

it app- ars to the Commissioners that any dwelling-house _ or other bunding which 
is used as a dwelling-place, or anv room in such dwelling-house or budding, is 
so overcrowded as to endanger the health of the inmates thereof, they may 
apply to a Magistrate lo abate such overcrowding: and the Magistrate, after 
such’ inquiry as he thinks fit to make, may by written order, require the owner 
of the building, or room, within a reasonable time not exceeding four weeks 
lo he specified’ in the said order, to abate such overcrowding by reducing the 
number of lodgers, tenants, or other inmates of the building or room. Or may 
pass such other order as he may deem just and proper. 

(2) The Commissioners at a meeting may, by written order, declare what 
amount of superficial and cubic space 1 shall be deemed for the purpose of sub- 
section (1) to be necessary for each occupant of a building or room. 

(3) If any building or room referred to in sub-section (1) has been sublet, 
the landlord of the lodgers, tenants, or other actual inmates of the same shall, 
for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be the owner of the building or 
room. 

(4) notwithstanding anything contained in any law or in any contract to 
the contrary it shall be incumbent on every tenant, lodger or other inmate of 
a building or room to vacate on being reauired by the owner so to do m 
pursuance of any requisition made under sub-section (1). 

(6) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall apply to a dwelling-house or building 
used as dwelling-place or a room in such dwelling-house or building which la 
overcrowded by the members of family of the owner thereof, 

369, Prevention of danger from ruinous buildings, etc, — Notwithstanding 
anything contained in this Act, where: it appears to the Commissioners that 
immediate action is n-cessary for the purpose of preventing imminent danger 
to person or property from any building, wall, bank, or other structure or any 
thing affixed thereto or to remove any tree oo* other thing, which appears to 
them to a source of imminent danger to person or property the Commissioners 
may take such immediate action themselves; and in such a case, it shall not be 
necessary for the Commissioners to give notice, if it appears to them that the 
object of taking such immediate action would be defeated by the delay incurred 
In giving nottoB. 



1128 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/$RAVANA 7, 1888 


[Part II 


Chapter XIII — Offensive and Dangerous Trades, Occupations or Processes 

370. Power to prohibit certain offensive and dangerous trades without 
tloedeje. — (1) No person shall use or permit to be used any place within such 
local limits as may be fixed by the Commissioners at a meeting without a license 
from the Commissioners (which shall be renewable annually) for any of the 
following purposes, namely: — 

(1) for the slaughter of animals or for the skinning or disembowelling of 
animals for purposes other than human consumption: 

Provided that this clause shall not apply to slaughter of animal for & 
bona fide religious purpose or on a ceremonial occasion; or 

(ii) for soring hides, fish, horns or skins; or 

(ili) for boiling or storing offal, blood, bones or rags; or 

(iv) for melting tallow; or 

(v) for tanning or for the manufacture of leather or leather goods; or 

(vi) for oil-boiling; or 

(vii) for soap-making; or 

(viii) for dyeing; or 

(ix) for burning or baking bricks, tiles, pottery or lime, whether for 

trade or private purposes; or 

(x) as a depot for trade in coal or coke; or 

(xi) for storing kerosine, petroleum, naphtha, or any inflammable oil 

or spirit; or 

(xii) for trading in, or storing for other than his own domestic use, hay, 

straw, wood, thatching grass, jute or other dangerously inflammable 
material: 

Provided that this clause shall not apply to the stock of any such article 
held by and intended for use in the business of any mill, factory, 
shipyard, engineering or other manufacturing firm to which the 
provisions of the Indian Factories Act, 1934, apply and which is 
situated within the municipality; or 

(xili) for any manufacture, process or business from which offensive or un- 
wholesome smells or offensive noises may arise; or 

(xiv) for any trade, process or business which the State Government may, 
by notification, declare to be a trade, process or business which 
requires to be regulated under the provisions of this chapter. 

(2) A license for any of the purposes mentioned in sub-section (1) shall not bo 
withheld unless the Commissioners at a meeting have reasons to believe that the 
business which It is Intended to establish or maintain would be the cause of 
annoyance, offence or danger to persons residing In or frequenting the Immediate 
neighbourhood or that the area should be for general reasons kept clear of the 
establishment of such business. 

(3) The Commissioners at a meeting may, In accordance with a scale of fees 
lo be prepared by them from time to time and approved by the State Government 
levy a fee In respect of any such license and the renewal thereof, and may Impose 
such conditions as to supervision, Inspection, conservancy and other matters upon 
the grant of any such license as they may think necessary, 

r-r 

(4) The grant of a license for the purposes mentioned in clause (xi) of sub- 
lection (1) shall be consistent with the provisions of the Petroleum Act, 1034, and 
no such license shall be granted unless the said provisions have been complied 
with by the applicant for the license, 

371. Power to order the carrying on of dangerous and offensive trades to bo 
discontinued.— If it appears to the Commissioners at a meeting that at any place 
licensed under section 370 the business is being carried on In contravention of the 
terms of the license In such a way as to be a cause of annoyance or offence to 
persons residing in or frequenting the immediate neighbourhood or of danger to 
health, they may, notwithstanding anything contained In the said section, after 
giving one month’s notice to the licensee, cancel his license. 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


1129 


372. Licensing; of places for keeping; horses and cattle. — (1) No dairyman, milk- 
man, cartman, livery stablekeeper or keeper of hackney carriages or other person 
shall keep horses, ponies, cattle or other four-footed animals for the purposes of 
trade or business except in a place licensed by the Commissioners: 

Provided that this sub-section shall not apply to a cartman who keeps not more 
than four animals for the purposes of using them with his own cart. 

(2) Licenses granted under sub-section (1) shall be subject to such conditions 
as the Commissioners at a meeting may Impose in respect of the site, construction, 
materials and dimensions of any structure erected for keeping horses, ponies, 
cattle or other four-footed animals, and in respect of the fencing, drainage, cleans- 
ing and in any other matter relating to the regulation of such places as they may 
think necessary. 

373, Commissioners may provide public stables. — (1) The Commissioners at a 
meeting may provide public stables for the accommodation of horses and cattle and 
may direct that, within such limits as they shall at a meeting determine, no person 
shall keep horses or cattle, exceeding ten in number, for the purpose of trade or 
business except in such public stables, or in places licensed under section 372. 

(2) The Commissioners at a meeting may charge such reasonable fees as they 
shall think fit for the use of such public stables. 

(3) The Commissioners at a meeting may license places for such purpose, and 
may levy a fee not exceeding one rupee on the issue and renewal of any such 
license. Such license shall be renewed in the first and sovonth months of each 
year. 

(4) It shall he in the discretion of the Commissioners at a meeting to grant any 
such license subject to such conditions as they may think tit. 

374. Conditions for keeping pigs, sheep and goats.— (1) Within such limits as 
the Commissioners at a meeting may direct, no person shall keep pigs or in any 
place more than twenty sheep or twenty goats without a license from the Com- 
missioners, which shall be renewable annually. 

(2) The Commissioners at a meeting may charge an annual fee not exceeding 
two rupees for such license, and in respect of such license may impose such condi- 
tions as to fencing, drainage, paving, cleansing and other matters for the regulation 
of such places as they may think necessary. 

375, Power to make by-laws regulating places used for offensive trades etc. — 
The Commissioners at a meeting may make by-laws— 

(a) providing for the inspection and regulation of the conduct of business 

In a place used for any of the purposes mentioned in section 370, so 
as to secure cleanliness therein, or to minimize any injurious, offensive 
or dangerous effect arising or likely to arise therefrom; 

(b) regulating or prohibiting for the prevention of any public annoyance or 

inconvenience or for the purpose of preventing danger to public health, 
the stalling of elephants, horses, camels, cattle, donkeys, sheep or 
goats; 

(c) regulating or prohibiting for the prevention of any public annoyance or 

inconvenience or for the purpose of preventing danger to the public 
health the place and manner of stalling pigs; and 

(d) to prevent the straying of pigs. 


Chapter XIV — Restraint op Infection 

376. Duty of Commissioners in case of epidemic. — If the Commissioners have 
reason to believe that any dangerous disease has appeared or is likely to appear In 
epidemic form within the municipality, they shall promptly investigate the matter, 
secure the prompt and thorough Isolation of those sick or infected with such 
disease, so long as there is danger of their communicating the disease to other 
persons; see that no person suffers for lack of nurses or other necessaries because 
of isolation for the public good; give public notice of Infected places by placard on 
the premises and otherwise, if necessary, promptly notify head teachers of schools 
concerning families any of the members of which are suffering from dangerous 
diseases; supervise funerals of persons dead from such diseases; disinfect rooms, 
clothing and premises, and all articles likely to be infected; and generally so exercisei 



H30 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, J96I/SRAVANA 7, 1885 


[Part II 


the powers conferred on them by this Act as to guard and protect the public health 
and do such things as may bs necessary to check and prevent the spread of the 
disease. 

377. Information to be given of dangerous disease. — A medical practitioner or a 
person practising the medical profession, and in the course of such practice be- 
coming cognizant of the existence of any dangerous disease in any building other 
than a public hospital; or if no medical practitioner or person practising the 
medical profession is so congnizant, the owner or occupier of such building cogni- 
zant of the existence of any such disease therein; or if the owner or occupier is not 
so cognizant the person in charge of, or in attendance on, any person, suffering 
from any such disease in such building, congizant of the existence of the disease 
therein, shall give true and correct information to such officer as the Commissioners 
may direct respecting the existence of such disease: 

Provided that a person not required to give information in the first instance, but 
only in default of some other person, shall not be punishable if it be shown that he- 
had reasonable cause to suppose that the information has been, or would be duly 
given. 

378. Power to Commissioners to remove patient to hospital in certain cases. — 

(1) When, in the opinion of any registered medical practitioner, any person is 
Buffering in any municipality from any dangerous disease and is also without 
proner lodging or accommodation or is lodged in such manner that he cannot bo 
effectually isolated so as to prevent Infection or contagion, and the said practition- 
er considers that such person should be removed to a hospital or place at which 
patients suffering from such disease are received for medical treatment, he may 
send a certificate to that effect to the Commissioners. 

(2) On receipt of any such certificate, the Commissioners may direct or 
cause the removal of such person to such hospital or place; 

Provided that all costs Incurred for the removal and in the treatment of any 
such patient may be borne by the Commissioners. 

Provided also that, if any such person is a female, she shall not be removed 
to any such hospital or place unless the same has accommodation for females, 
and set apart from the portion assigned to males. 

(3) The person (If anyl who has charge of a person, in respect of whom an 
order is made under sub-section (2), shall obey such order. 

(4) If any female who according to the custom of the country, does not 
appear in public, be removed to any hospital or place under sub-section (2) — 

(a) the removal shall be effected in such a way as to preserve her pri- 

vacy; 

(b) special accommodation suited to such custom shall be provided for 

her in such hospital or place; 

(c) one female relative or attendant shall be allowed to remain with 

her. 

(5) The Commissioners at a meeting may provide nurses for attendance on 
patients suffering from any dangerous disease in the municipality who, owing to 
want of hospital accommodation or danger of infection or contagion cannot be 
removed to hospital or in cases where removal to the hospital is likely to en- 
danger the patient’s health, and may charge such reasonable fees for the services 
of and fix the qualifications, duties and salaries of such nurses. 

379. Power to cleans or disinfect buildings, tanks, etc. — (l) If the Commis- 
sioners are of opinion — 

(a) that any building or part thereof is in such a filthy or unwholesome 

condition that the health of any person is affected or endangered 
thereby, or 

(b) that the cleansing, limewashing or disinfecting, as the case may be, 

of any building or any part of a building or of any tank or pool or 
well adjacent to a building, or that the cleansing, disinfection, puri- 
fication or destruction of any article therein which is likely to retain 
Infection or by reason of its filthy condition likely to cause Injury to 
the health of any person, would tend to check or prevent the spread 
of any dangerous disease, 



H3i 


Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


they may cause such building or part thereof to be cleansed, limewashed or 
disinfected or such tank, pool, well or article to be cleansed, disinfected or purified 
or such articles to be destroyed and may, by written notice, require the occupier 
of such building or any part thereof to vacate the same for such time as may be 
prescribed In such notice. 

(2) The cost of such cleansing or disinfecting shall be paid by the occupier 
of the building, or in the case of any tank, pool or well not let out with a 
building by the owner or occupier of the holding in which such tank, pool or 
well is situated according as the Commissioners at a meeting may determine: 

Provided that — 

(a) If. In the opinion of the Commissioners at a meeting, the occupier is 

from poverty unable to pay the said cost the Commissioners shall 
direct payment thereof to be made from the Municipal Fund, and 

(b) the Commissioners shall provide temporary shelter or house accom- 

modation for the members of any family in which any dangerous 
disease has appeared who have been compelled to leave their dwel- 
lings for the purpose of enabling such dwellings to be disinfected 
for any part Of a night. 

(3) Where a person sustains damage in consequence of the destruction of 
any article under this section, and the condition of such article is not attribu- 
table to the act or default of such person, th > Commissioners at a meeting shall 
make reasonable compensation to that person. 

,180. Power to Commissioners to destroy huts and sheds. — (1) If the Commis- 
sioners are of opinion that the destruction of any hut or shed is necessary to 
prevent the spread of any dangerous disease, they may, after giving to the owner 
or (.coupler of such hut or shed such previous notice of their intention as may 
in the circumstances of the case appear to them to be reasonable, take measures 
for having such hut or shed and all the materials thereof destroyed. 

(2) The Commissioners at a meeting shall make such compensation not ex- 
ceeding the value of the hut as they think proper to any person who sustains 
loss by the destruction of any such hut. or shed, but except as so allowed by the 
Commissioners, no claim for compensation shall lie for any loss or damage caused 
by any exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (1). 

281. Infected building not to be let. — No person shall knowingly let a dwel- 
ling-house or other building or part of a dweffing-house or building In which 
any person has been suffering from any dangerous disease- 

fa) unless such home, building or part thereof and all articles therein 
liable to retain infection have been disinfected and the Commis- 
sioners have granted a certificate to that effect, and 

(b) until a date specified in such certificate as that on -which the house, 
building or part may be occupied and the articles therein used 
without causing risk of infection or contagion. 

For the purposes of this section a hotel or lodging home-keeper shall be 
deemed to let part of his hotel or lodging house to any person accommodated 
therein. 

382. Provision of places and appliances for disinfection. — (1) The Commis- 
sioners at a meeting may provide proper places, with all necessary attendants 
and apparatus, for the disinfection of conveyances, clothing, bedding or other 
articles which have been exposed to infection or contagion. 

(2) The Commissioners may — 

(a) cause conveyances, clothing or other articles brought for disinfection 

to be disinfected free of charge or subject to such charges as may 
be approved by them; and 

(b) direct any clothing, bedding or other articles likely to retain infection 

to be disinfected or destroyed and shall give compensation for any 
article destroyed under this clause. 

S83. Provision of places for dlsinfactlon or washing of Infected articles. — The 

Commissioners at a meeting may from time to time, by public notice, appoint a 
place or places at which conveyances, clothing, bedding or other articles which 



1 132 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 1883 


[Part H 


have been exposed to infection or contagion from any dangerous disease, may be 
washed, and no person shall wash or cause to be washed any such article at any 
place not so appointed, unless the same has been disinfected to the satisfaction 
of the Health Officer or Sanitary Inspector or of a registered medical practitioner. 

384. Acts done by persons suffering from certain diseases, — No person suffer- 
ing from any disease notified by the State Government in this behalf shall — 

(a) make or offer for sale any article of food for human consumption or 

any medicine or drug; or 

(b) wilfully touch any such article, medicine or drug when exposed for 

sale by others; or 

(c) take any part in the business of washing or carrying soiled clothes; or 

(d) sell clothes or any other article for human wear or likely to come 

into contact with the human body without a written permission from 
the Health Officer, or, in case of a municipality not employing a 
Health Officer, from the Chairhian. 


385. Infected articles not to be transmitted without previous disinfection. — (1) 

No person shall, without previous disinfection of the same, give, lend, sell, trans- 
mit or otherwise dispose of anv article which he knows or has reason to know 
has been exposed to infection from any dangerous disease. 

(2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall apply to a person who transmits, with 
proper precautions, any such article for the purpose of having the same disin- 
fected. 

380. Exposure of person suffering from dangerous disease, and restrictions on 
carriage of patient or dead body In public conveyance.— (1) No person shall— 

(a) while suffering from any dangerous disease wilfully expose himself in 

any street, public place, shop, bazar or any place used In common 
by persons other than members of the family or household to which 
such infected person belongs, or cause or suffer himself or any 
clothing, bedding or other article which has been exposed to infec- 
tion or contagion to be carried in a public conveyance without pre- 
viously notifying to the owner, driver or person in charge of such 
conveyance that he is so suffering or that such article is so infected, 
and without proper precautions against spreading the said disease, 
or 

(b) so carry or permit to be carried in a public conveyance the dead body 

of any person who has died from a dangerous disease or any cloth- 
ing, bedding, or other article which has been exposed to infection or 
contagion or while in charge of any person suffering from any 
dangerous disease expose such sufferer in any such place as Is 
referred to In clause (a) or carry such sufferer or permit him to be 
carried in a public conveyance without giving previous notice and 
taking the precautions referred to In that clause. 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any enactment relating to public 
conveyances for the time being in force, no owner or driver or person in charge 
of a public conveyance shall be bound to carry any person suffering as aforesaid 
or to carry any such dead body or any such infected clothing, bedding or other 
article as aforesaid, in such conveyance, unless payment or tender of sufficient 
compensation for the loss and expenses which he must incur in disinfecting such 
conveyance is first of all made to him. 

387. Disinfection of public conveyance after carriage of patient or dead 
body. — (1) The owner, driver or person in charge of any public conveyance in 
which any person suffering from any dangerous disease or the dead body of any 
person who has died from such disease or any clothing, bedding or other article 
which has been exposed to infection or contagion has been carried shall imme- 
diately take the conveyance for disinfection to a place, if any, appointed under 
section 382, or section 383. 

(2) The person in charge of such place shall forthwith Intimate to the Com- 
missioners iiie number of the conveyance and proceed to disinfect the con- 
veyance. 


Sec. 8(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1885 


1I3£ 


(3) II no place has been appointed under section 382 or section 383, the Com- 
missioners shall take such steps as they may think proper for disinfecting such, 
conveyance, 

(4) No such conveyance shall be used until the Commissioners have granted 
a certificate stating that it may be used without causing risk of infection or con- 
tagion. 

388. Power to provide special conveyances for patients, dead bodies and infec- 
ted articles. — (1) The Commissioners at a meeting may provide and maintain 
suitable conveyances for the free carriage of persons suffering from any dange- 
rous disease or of the dead bodies of persons who have died from any such 
disease or for the removal of any clothing, bedding or other article which has 
been exposed to infection or contagion. 

(2) When such conveyances have been provided, it shall not be lawful, with- 
out the sanction of the Commissioners, to rarry any such person or dead body or 
any such clothing, bedding or other -article in, or for any such person to cause 
himself to be carried in or for any person to cause any such dead body or any 
such clothing, bedding or other article to be carried in, any other public con- 
veyance. 

389. Power of entry for purposes of preventing spread of dleases. — The Com- 
missioners may authorize any officer to enter, at any time between sunrise and 
sunset after three hours' notice, into any building or premises in which any dan- 
gerous disease is suspected to exist, for the purposes of inspecting such building 
or premises. 

390. Power to close market, etc.— (1) The Commissioners may, for a specified 
time, with a view to preventing the spread of any dangerous disease, order that 
any market, sarai, hotel or lodging-house within the municipality shall be closed, 
or forbid any person to attend any such market or to lodge in such sarai, hotel or 
lodging-house. 

(2) Such order shall be publicly notified in such manner and at such places 
as the Commissioners shall direct, and notice thereof shall be served on the owner, 
occupier or farmer of the market or the keeper of the sarai, hotel or lodging- 
house. 

(3) After complying with the notice, the owner, occupier or farmer of the 
market or the keeper of the sarai, hotel or lodging-house or any person interested 
may appeal to the Magistrate, or where the Magistrate is the Chairman of the 
municipality, to the District Magistrate, if he considers th ■ notice to be unreason- 
able, and the order of the Magistrate or of the Commissioner of the Division, as 
the case may be, shall be final. 

391. Cower to close school. — (i) The Commissioners may, by notice, require the 
proprietor or person in charge of any school situated within the municipality for 
a specified time, with a view to preventing the spread of any dniiforous disease or 
any danger to health likely lo arise fiom the condition of the school, cither to 
close the school pr to exclude anv scholars from attendance; and the proprietor 
or person in charge, as the case may be, shall forthwith comply with the notice. 

(2) After complying with the notice, the proprietor or person in charge may 
appeal to the Magistrate or where the Magistrate is the Chairman of the munici- 
pality, to the District Magistrate, if he considers the notice to b ■ unreasonable, 
and the order of the Magistrate or the Dislriet Magistrate, as the ease may be, 
shall be final. 

392. By-laws for control, etc., of dangerous disease.— Th • Commissioners at a 
meeting may make by-laws for the control, restraint and prevention of any dan- 
gerous disease and in particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the 
foregoing power, they mav. and when required by the State Government shall, 
make by-laws regarding the following matters:— 

(a) the restraint, segregation, and isolation of persons suffering from any 

dangerous disease or likely to suffer from any such disease owing to 
exposure to Infection or contagion; 

(b) the removal, disinfection and destruction of personal effects, goods, 

houses and other property exposed to infection or contagion; 



fPART II 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1685 


(c) the removal to hospital and the treatment of persons suffering from 

any dangerous disease or likely to suffer from any such disease owing 
to exposure to infection or contagion; 

(d) the speedy burial or cremation of the bodies of persons who have died 

from any dangerous disease; 

(c) house-to-house visiting and inspection; 

(f) the promotion of cleanliness, ventilation and disinfection; 

(g) the duties in respect of the prevention and notification of any dange- 

rous disease, and in respect of persons suffering or suspected to be 
suffering therefrom, of the owners and occupiers of tea-gardens, fac- 
tories, mills and workshops and of other persons employing In any 
one place not less than fifty persons; 

(h) the duties of parents or guardians whoso children being .school children 

are suffering or have recently suffered from any dangerous disease or 
have been exposed to infection or contagion and the duties of persons 
in charge of schools in respect of such children; 

(i) the prevention of the spread from any animal, or the carcasses or pro- 

duct of any animal, to man, of rabies, glanders, anthrax, plague, 
tuberculosis, trichinosis or any other disease communicable to man 
by any animal or the carcass or product of any animal; 

(j) the prevention of the spread and the eradication of malaria, the destruc- 

tion of mosquitoes and the removal or abatement of conditions per- 
mrffing or favouring the multiplication or prevalence of mosquitoes; 

(k) the prevention of the spread of disease by flics or other insects and the 

destruction of such insects, and the removal or abatement of condi- 
tions permitting or favouring the prevalence or multiplication of such 
insects; 

(l) the destruction of rodents and other vermin and the removal or abate- 

ment of conditions permitting or favouring the harbourage or multi- 
plication thereof; 

(m) the prevention of the spread of any dangerous disease by the carrying. 

on of any business, trade or occupation; 

(n) the regulation of rag-flock manufacture and the trade in rags and in 

bones and in second-hand clothing, bedding or any similar article and 
the requiring of any such article to be disinfected before Its importa- 
tion, removal, sale or exposure for sale, or use in any manufacturing 
process; and 

(o) the disposal of any refuse, waste matter or other matter or thing, which 

has been contaminated with or exposed to infection or contagion. 


Vaccination 

393, Health Officer to exercise powers of Superintendent of Vaccination, — A 

Health Officer appointed under section 66 or section 67 shall, within the municipa- 
lity to which he is appointed, subject to such restrictions as the State Government 
may impose, exercise the powers and perform the duties of a Superintendent of 
Vaccination. 

Chapter XV. — Hospitals, Dispensaries, Child Welfare and School Hygiene 

394. Power to Commissioners to provide hospitals, dispensaries, etc. for the 
reception of the sick. — (1) The Commissioners at a meeting may provide hospitals, 
dispensaries or temporary plac :s for the reception of the sick, and for that pur- 
pose may— 

(a) themselves build, alter, add to and maintain such hospitals, dispensaries 

or places of reception; or 

(b) contract for the use of any such dispensary, hospital or place of recep- 

tion, or of any part thereof; or 

(c) enter into an agreement with any person or authority having the 

management of any hospital, within or without the municipality for 
the reception of the sick inhabitants of the municipality on payment 
of such annual or other sum as. may be agreed on. 

(2) The Commissioners of any municipality may combine with any other 
local authority in providing, maintaining or improving a common dispensary, 
hospital or place for the reception of the sirk, provided that the scheme or 
management and the apportionment of the costs shall be approved by the State 
^Government. 



Sec, 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


1135 


395, Power Commissioners to provide nurses, midwives, etc— (1) The Com- 
missioners at a meeting may provide — 

(a) midwives for attendance in maternity cases; and 

(b) health visitors to visit and inspect any premises in the municipality 

and to give advice to expectant mothers on the management of their 
health and as to the proper nurture, care and management of young 
children, and the promotion of cleanliness. 

(2) The Commissioners at a meeting may charge such reasonable fees for 
the services of midwives provided by th.m as they think lit and may prescribe 
rules for the qualifications, duties and salaries of such inidwives and of health 
visitors. 

396. Rules for child welfare. — The State Government may make rules— 

(a) requiring the father of a child if actually residing in the house where 

the child is born at the time of its birth, and any person in attend- 
ance upon the mother at the time of, or within twelve hours after, 
the birth, to give notice of the birth to the Health Officer or Sanitary 
Inspector in such manner as the Commissioners may prescribe; 

(b) requiring the certification and registration of all midwives, dhais,, or 

other women who habitually or for gam attend women in childbirth, 
piescribing minimum qualifications, examinations and courses of 
training for any such persons or classes of persons, regulating the 
issue of certificates, deciding the conditions under which su-h persons 
may be suspended from practice and their certificates cancelled, and 
regulating, supervising and restricting within due limits the practice 
of such persons, particularly in regard to such matt rs as cleanliness, 
equipment, disinfection, and the submission of such reports and 
returns to the Health Officer, as may be prescribed; 

(c) regulating the appointment and powers of he illh visitors to advise 

persons as to infant-feeding, the proper nurture, care and manage- 
ment of young children and the promotion of cleanliness and regulat- 
ing such other duties as may be assigned to health visitors; ana 

(d) providing for the sanitary inspection of all schools and colleges and 

for the medical inspection of children immediatTy before or at the 
time of, or as soon as possible after, their admission to a primary 
or secondary school and on such other occasions as the State Govern- 
ment may direct, and authorizing the Commissioners to ma’io such 
arrangements as the State Government mav approve, for attending 
to the health and physical condition of the childien educated in. 
such schools. 


Chapter XVI. — Extinction and Prevention of Pi re 

397. Power of fire brigade and other persons for suppression of fire. — For the 

prevention and extinction of fin, the Commissioners at a meeting may rcsolvp to 
establish and maintain a fire brigade and to provide any imolemonts, machinery 
or means of communicating intelligence which the Commissioners may 
think necessary for the efficient discharge of their duties by the brigade. 

398. Power to direct operations in case of fire. — (1) On the occasion of a fire 
in a municloality, any Magistrate, any Municipal Commissioner, the Executive 
Officer, the Secretary to the Commissioners, any member of a fire brigade main- 
tained by the Commissioners, then and there directing the operations of men 
belonging to the brigade and (if directed so to do by a Magistrate or bv a 
Municipal Commissioner) any police officer above the rank of constable may — - 

(a) remove or order the removal of any peison who by his presence inter- 

feres with or impedes the operations for extinguishing the fire or for 
saving life or property; 

(b) close any street or passage in or near which any fire is burning; 

(c) for the purpose of extinguishing the fire, break into or through, or null 

down, or use for the passage of any hose or other appliance, any 
premises; 

fd) cause mains and pipes to be shut off so as to give greater pressure of 
water in the place wh re the fire has occurred; 

<e) call on the persons in charge of any fire engine to render such assist- 
ance as may be possible; and 



1136 the GAZETTE OF INDIA :JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 [Part II 


(f) generally take such measures as may appear necessary tor the preserva- 
tion of life or property. 

(2) No person shall be liable to pay damages for any act done by him under 
sub-section (1) in good faith. 

8 98 A. * * • • * 

399. Power to search for inflammable material In excess of authorized Quantity. — 

(1) The Commissioners may, without notice and at any period of the day or night, 
enter into and inspect a place which is suspected to contain kerosene, petroleum, 
or other inflammable material referred to in clauses (xi) and (xii) of section 370- 
in excess of the quantity permitted to be kept in such house or building under 
the conditions of a license granted under section 370. 

(2) Should any such excess quantity of such material be discovered, it may be 
seized and held subject to such order as a Magistrate may pass with respect to it. 

(3) If the Magistrate decides that the material seized was stored in the place 
contrary to the conditions of such license, he may pass an order confiscating the 

same. 

(4) Subject to any provision of, or made under this or any other enactment, 
the material so confiscated may be sold by order of the Magistrate, and the pro- 
ceeds, after defraying the expenses of such sale, shall be credited to the Municipal 
Fund. 

(5) No order of confiscation under this section shall operate to prevent any 
criminal or other proceedings to which the person storing the material in exces- 
sive quantity may be liable. 

400. Stacking, etc-., of inflammable materials. — The Commissioners at a meet- 
ing may, where it appears to be necessary tor the prevention of danger to life 
or property, by public notice prohibit all persons from stacking or collecting bay. 
straw, wood, thatching grass, jute or other dangerously inflammable materials, or 
from placing mats on thatched huts or lighting fires in a place or within limits 
specified in the notice. 

401. Power fo make by-laws. — The Commissioners at a meeting may make by- 
laws— 

(a) providing for the guidance, discipline and conduct of the members of 

a municipal fire brigade and any volunteer fire brigade recognized 
by the Commissioners; 

(b) prescribing the officer to whom and the place at which the outbreak 

of a fire shall be reported; 

(c) regulating, either by rendering licenses necessary, or otherwise, the 

letting off Of fire-arms, flre-works, fire -balloons, bombs or other 
explosives; and 

(d) generally making provision for the procedure and precautions to be 

adopted by the public on the occasion of a fire and for any other 

thing relating to fires in respect of which provision is n j cessary. 

Chapter XVII.— Markets and Slaughter-places 

402. Power to provide and maintain municipal markets, slaughter-houses and 
stock-yards. — (I) The Commissioners at a meeting may — 

(a) construct, purchase, take on leas^ or otherwise acquire any land or 

building for the purpose of establishing a new municipal market or 

a now municipal slaughter-house or municipal .stock-yard or of 
extending or improving any existing municipal market, municipal 
slaughter-house or municipal stock-yard, and 

(b) from time to time build and maintain such municipal markets, munici- 

pal slaughter-houses and municipal stock-yards and such stalls, shops, 
sheds, pens and other buildings or conveniences for the use of per- 
sons carrying on trade or business in, or frequenting, such markets, 
slaughter-houses or stock-yards, and charge rent, tolls and fees for 
the right to expose goods for sale in such markets and for the use 
of shops, stalls and standings therein 



Sk( . Sii)] THE GAZETTE OT INDIA: JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7. 1883 II37 


(2) The Commissioners at a meeting may place the collection of such rents, 
tolls and fees under the management of such persons as may appear to them 
proper or may farm out such rents, tolls and fees on such terms and subject to 
such conditions as they may think fit. 

(3) The Commissioners may by general or special order— 

(i) cancel or annul any right to expose goods for sale in such markets, and 

( 11 ) refuse the us ■ of any shop, stall or standing thiiton 'vithout compensa- 
tion fo'- such cancellation or refusal, 

if the person, who has been granted that right or use or any nt his servants— 

(a) closes his shop, stall or standing to the public, or 

(b) fails to supply to the public the articles ordinarily kept for sale thertOn. 
at such times as may from time to time he fixed by the Commissioners. 

(4) Municipal slaughter-houses may be situated within or, with the sanction 
of the District Magistrate, without the limits of the municipality 

403. Power to close municipal markets, slaughter-houses and stock-yards.—- 

The Commissioners at a meeting may, at any lime, close any municipal market, 
municipal slaughter-house or municipal stock-yard, or any portion thereof, and the 
premises occupied for any market, slaughter-house or stock-yard or portion so 
closed may be disposed of as the property of the Commissioners. 

404. Prohibition of use of municipal market without permission. — (1) No per- 
son shall, without the permission of the Commissioners, or, if the Commissioners 
have farmed out th“ rents and fees, without the permission of the farmer, sell 
or expose for sale any living thing or any article within a municipal market 

(2) If any person contravenes the provisions of sub-scction (1) he may, in 
addition to any penalty which may be imposed on him under this Act, be sum- 
marily removed from such market by the Commissioners, or by the farmer, as 
the case may be, or by any of the officers or servants of the Commissioners or of 
the farmer. 

405. Power to Commissioners to permit opening of new private markets. — (1) 

In any municipality of which the Commission rs at a meeting have published an 
order in this behalf, no person shall — 

(i) establish a new private market for the sale of 01 for the purpose of 

exposing for sale any living thing intended for human food, or any 
other article of human food, except with th ■ sanction of the Com- 
missioners at a meeting; 

(ii) without or otherwise than in conformity with the terms of a license 

granted by the Commissioners at a meeting in this behalf, keep open 
any private market or wilfully or negligently permit any place to be 
used as a private market; 

Provided that the Commissioners shall not — 

(a) r.-’fusc a license for the maintenance of a market lawfully established 

at the date of the publication of such order of the Commissioners at 
a meeting if application be made within six months from such date, 
except on the ground that the place where the market is established 
fails to comply with any conditions prescribed by, or under, this Act, 
or 

(b) cancel, suspend or refuse to renew any license granted under such 

order or by-laws framed in this behalf for any cause, other than the 
failure of the licensee to complv with the conditions of the license or 
with any provisions of, or made under, this Act 

( 1 ) The Commissioners at a meeting may, by general 01 special order, cancel 
any license granted under this section if the private market is closed to the public 
or if a supply of the articles for the sale of which the license was granted, is not 
kept available for sale to the public at such time as mav from time to time be 
fixed by th? Commissioners. 

40fi. Power to close unlicensed places. — The Magistrate on the application of 
the Commissioners at a meeting mav order any place which has been used as a 
market without a license under seefion 405 to be closed as a market-place, and 
thereupon may take order to prevent such place being used as a market, and no 



1138 


[Part II 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 10 1 J01 /3RAVAN \ 7, 1883 


person shall thereafter sell or expose for sale on or in such place any living 
thing intended for human food or any article of food. 

407. Licensing of private slaughter-houses— (1 ) Notwithstanding anything 
contained in section 402, the Commissioners at a meeting may, subject to suen 
conditions as they may impose with the approval of the State Government 
grant and withdraw licenses, for the use of any premises either within or with 
the sanction of the District Magistrate, without the limits of the municipality for 
the slaughter of animals or animals of any specified description, for the sale of 
their flesh for human consumption. 

(2) When such premises have been fixed by the Commissioners beyond munici- 
pal limits, the Commissioners shall have the same power to make" by-laws for 
the Inspection and proper regulation of the same as if they were within those 
limits. 


408. Prohibition of slaughter of animals except at licensed or municipal 
slaughter-house. — No person shall slaughter any animal for the sale of its flesh 
for human consumption within the municipality at any place other than a 
municipal slaughter-house or a slaughter-house licensed under section 407. 

409. Power to require paving and draining of private markets, and to alter 
structures In such markets. — The Commissioners at a meeting may, bv written 
notice, require the owner or occupier of any private market,— 

(a) to cause the whole or any portion of the floor of the market-building 

or market-place, to be raised or_ paved with dressed stone or other 
suitable material. 

(b) to cause such drains to be made in or from the market-building or 

market-place, of such material, size and description, at such level 
and with such outfall as to the Commissioners may appear necessary! 

(c) to cause a supply of water to be provided for keeping such market- 

buildmg or market-place, in a clean and whoJesom- state, and 

(d) to cause any shop, stall, shed or other structure in any private market 

to be altered or improved in such manner as the Commissioners at a 
meeting may consider necessary. 


lid Power to define limits of market and to require provision and mainten- 
ance of market approaches, etc..— (1) The Commissioners at a meeting may 

(a) define or determine the limits of any private market or declare what 

portions of such market shall be made part of the existing approaches 
streets, passages and ways to and in such market, and 

(b) after hearing the owner or occupier of such market by written notice 

require such owner or occupier to— 

(l) lav out, construct, alter, clear, widen, pave, drain and light, to the 
statlsfaction of the Commissioners, such approaches streets pas- 
sages and ways to or in such market, and ' ' v 

(ii) provide such conveniences for the use of persons resorting to such 
market, and 6 

(ili) provide adequate ventilation and lighting of the market-building or 
any portion thereof including shops and stalls, 
as the Commissioners may think fit. 

(2) The Commissioners at a meeting after hearing the owner or occupier of 
any private market may, by written notice, require such owner or occupier to 
maintain m proper order the approaches, streets, passages and ways to and in 

resortkig rl thereto d SUCh ° ther convemenccs as are provided for the use of persons 

(3) The Commissioners shall cause a notice of the limits of any market defined 
under sub-scction (1), to be affixed in the English, Bengali, Hindi and Urdu 
languages as they may think necessary on some conspicuous spot on or near the 
building or place where such market is held. 


^ 41 l P l ° we !i to e *P el Person contravening by-laws.— (1 ) The Commissioners 
after giving the parties concerned an opportunity of being heard may 

(a) expel' from any municipal market or municipal slaughter-house for 
such period as they may think fit any person who or whose servant 



n39 


Sec, 8(i)] THE GA/ETTE OE TNDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7 ISAS 


has been convicted of contravening any by-law made under section 
414 at the time in force in such market or slaughter-house. 

(b) prevent such person, by himself or his servants, from further carrying 

on any trade or business in such market or slaughter-house, or 
occupying any stall, shop, standing, shed, pen or other place therein, 
and 

(c) determine any lease or tenure which such person may have in any such 

stall, shop, standing, shed, pen oi place. 

(21 If the tenant, or the agent of the tenant of the owner or lessee of any 
private market or slaughter-house licensed under section 405 or section 407, as 
the case may be, has been convicted for contravention of any by-law made 
under section 414 and specified by the Commissioners at a meeting in this behalf, 
the Commissioners at a meeting may require such tenant or agent to remove 
himself from any such market or slaughter-house, within such time as may be 
mentioned in the requisition, and if he fails to comply with such requisition he 
may, in addition to any penalty which may be imposed on him under this Act, 
be summarily removed from such premises by the owner or lessee thereof or by 
the servants of such owner or lessee. 

(3) If it appears to the Commissioners at a meeting that in any such case 
the owner or lessee is acting in collusion with a tenant or agent convicted as 
aforesaid who fails to comply with a requisition issued under sub-section (2) the 
Commissioners at a meeting may, if they think fit, cancel the license of such 
owner or lessee in respect of such premises. 

412. Duration and registration of license. —Every license granted under thj$ 
chapter sliall be in force until the end of the year during which it is granted, and 
shall be registered in a book to be kept for the purpose, containing the follow- 
ing particulars — 

(a) the name and addrqss of the owner of the land, and the name and 

address of the owner of the market or slaughter-house, and of any 
lessee thereof; 

(b) the extent and boundary of the market or slaughter-house; 

(c) in the case of a market the description of the articles sold and the day# 

on which it will be held, 

413. Registration of transfers. — Every transfer of any Interest In such market or 
slaughter-house shall be registered by the transferee at the municipal office within 
two months from the date of the transfer, and any market or slaughter-house the 
transfer of interest in which has not been registered in accordance with the provi- 
sions of this section shall be demed to be land used as a market or slaughter- 
house as the case may be, without a license. 

414. By-laws for licensing, regulating and inspecting certain business. — The 

Commissioners at a meeting may make by-laws — 

(a) for the lay-out. construction, regulation and inspection of markets and 

slaughter-houses, for the provision of a proper supply of water, the 
prevention of cruelty, the proper cleaning and general regulation and 
control of the sanitary condition of such places, the feeding and 
watering of animals kept in slaughter-houses or in yards attached to 
slaughter-houses, and the prevention of nuisances and obstruction; 

(b) in the case of any municipal market or municipal slaughter-house for the 

orderly conduct of business and for fixing the rents and other charges 
to be levied; 

<c) in the case of any municipal market and any market licensed under sec- 
tion 405 for the prohibition during such hours as they may fix of mak- 
ing purchases by persons other than persons buying for bona fide 
domestic purposes; 

(d) prescribing the conditions on or subiect to which and thp circumstances 

in which, and the areas, or localities in respect of which, licenses may 
be granted, refused, suspended or withdrawn for the use of any private 
market, or slaughter-house; and 

fe) In a municipality where a reasonable number of slaughter-houses havp 
been provided or licensed by the Commissioners, controlling and regu- 
lating the admission within municipal limits for purposes of sale of the 
flesh (other than cured or preserved meat) for human consumption of 



ii4o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : Jill, Y 39, 19GI/SR \V ANA 7, 1883 


[P\R1 II 


any cattle, sheep, goats or swine slaughtered at a slaughter-house or 
place not maintained or licensed under this Act 

Chapter XVITA. — -Fairs or Melas 

41 4A. Power ot Commissioners to grant licenses for fairs or melas. — The Com- 
missioneis at a meeting may require the owner or lessee of a fair or mala or an 
owner or a lessee of land intending to establish a fair or mela thereon, to obLaln 
a license in this behalf from the Commissioners on such terms and conditions, 
and on payment of such fees as may be prescribed. 

414B. Prohibition of prostitution within fairs or melas —The Commissioners at 
a meeting may, by public notice issued at least one month before the date of any 
fair or mela , prohibit prostitution within such fair or mela or within half a mile 
thereof. 

414C. Rules for fairs or melas. — The Stale Government may make rules regu- 
lating the granting of licenses for holding fairs or melas and fixing the fees in 
respect thereof. 


Chapter XVIII, — Weights and Measures 

415. Standard weights and measures in municipalities. — 11) Where the Com- 
missioners of any municipality, to which this section has been extended by the 
State Government have made by-laws under section 417, prescribing the standard 
weights and measures to be used within the municipality, they may at a meeting 
by order published in the prescribed manner prohibit the use within the munici- 
pality of any maund, seer or tola weight, or of any cubit measure other than such 
as conforms with the standard prescribed in the said by-laws. 

(2) When such order has been published, any person, authorized by them in 
this behalf, may at all reasonable times enter Into and inspect any market, building, 
shop, stall or place used for the sale of- any goods, food or drug, and may Inspect 
any instruments for weighing, and any weights or measures found therein and test 
the same with other weights and measures, and may seize any such instruments for 
weighing, and any such weight or measure which the person so authorized reason- 
ably believes to be false or to contravene any by-laws made by the Commissioners 
under section 417', and may take the same to be examined or tested by the officer 
’ mo shall be appointed by the Commissioners for the purpose. 

(3) Every person for the time being in charge of or employed in such market, 
building, shop, stall or place shall, if so requested by the person making such ins- 
pection, produce for such inspection and comparison all instruments for weighing 
and all weights, and measures kept therein. 

416. Forfeiture of false weights and measures. — If it appears to the officer 
appointed under sub-section (2) of section 415 that the instrument for weighing 
or the weight or measure is false or contravenes any by-laws made by the Com- 
missioners under section 417, he shall cause such instrument, weight or measure 
to be forfeited to the Commissioners in order that it may be destroyed or other- 
wise disposed of by the Commissioners, 

417. Power to make by-laws. — The Commissioners at a meeting may make by- 
laws — 


(a) prescribing the standard weights and measures to be used within the 

municipality, namely, — 

(i) Government standard weights, that is to say, a maund consisting of 

forty seers, a seer consisting of eighty tolas and a tola consisting of 
one hundred and eighty grains; or 

(ii) a standard cubit consisting of eighteen inches for the measure of 

commodities other than land; or 

(iii) both the weights and measure of length mentioned in sub-clauses (1) 

and (ii) respectively; 

(b) providing standards of the weights and measures so prescribed; 

(c) arranging for the safe keeping of such standards; 

(d) fixing times and places for testing and verifying any weight or mea- 

sure, which is of the same denomination as one of such standards; 



Sit, 3(i)J 1 HE CA/F IT E OF INDIA: Jt LA' 2‘>, 1961/SRAVANA 7 1883 


1 14 r 


(e) for stamping, in such manner as to prevent fraud, any weight or mea- 

sure which is found to be con-eel; and 

(f) fixing fees in r=speet of such verification and stamping. 

Chaptek XIX — Food and Drugs 

Sale of Food and Drugs 

418. Licensing of butchers and of sale of meat, etc., outside market, — (1) No 

person shall, without or otherwise than in conformity with the terms of a license 
granted by the Commissioners m this behalf — 

(a) carry on in the municipality, or at any municipal slaughter-house with- 

out the municipality, the trade or business of a butcher, or 

(b) habitually sell or expose for sale any animal, meat or fish intended for 

human consumption, in any place other than a municipal market or 
a private market. 

(2) Nothing in clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall apply — - 

(a) to the sale of meat, or fish in any hotel or eating-house for consumption 

on the premises, or 

(b) to flesh fish sold from, or exposed Jor sale on, a ship or boat in which 

it has be;-n brought direct to the municipality after being caught at 
sea or in a river or in piivate fisheries or sold on the bank ot a river 
or tank from which it was caught. 

419. Municipal bakeries and sweetmeat shops. — The Commissioners 111 their 
discretion may provide and maintuin municipal bakeries and sweetmeat shops, 
and may at any time lease to any person such bakeries and shops on such terms 
and conditions as may to them seem proper. 

420. Licensing of dairymen, bakers, etc. — (1) In any municipality to which the 
provisions of this section have been extended bv the State Government, no person 
shall, without or otherwise than in conformity with the terms of a license granted 
bv the Commissioners in this behalf, carry on in the municipality the trade or 
business of a duiVyman or milkman or ot a baker, confectioner, ice or aerated- 
wat j r manufacturer, or sweetmeat maker 01 of a keeper of a tea-shop, hotel or 
eating-house. 

( 2 ) In extending the provisions of this section 1 o any municipality the State 
Government may exempt any of the trades or businesses mentioned in sub-section 
(Ij from the operation of the section 

421. Prohibition of sale of diseased animals or unwholesome articles intended 
for human food. — (1) No person shall sell, store for sale, expose or hawk about 
for sale, or keep for sale, 

(a) any living thing intended to be used as food; or 

(b) any ither article of food or any drug intended to be used for human 

consumption, 

which is diseased, unsound, unwholesome 01 unfit tor human food or, in the case 
of drugs, for medicine. 

12 A In any prosecution under this section the court shall, unh ss and until the 
contraty is proved, presume that any such living thing, article o< iood, or drug 
found in the possession of a person who is in the Inbil of keeping such living 
thing or keeping or manufacturing such other article of food "or drug for the 
purpose of human com umptien has bee:. :;o k( ot or manufactured, as the case 
may be, for sale by such person. 

422. Prohibition of the keeping of bread-stuffs, etc., otherwise than in covered 
receptacles. — No milk, bread-stuffs, cake, pastry, sweetmeats, confectionery or 
oilier article of food intended or commonly used for human consumption without 
further preparation by cooking shall be sold, exposed or kept or hawked about, 
or stored for sale unless they be kept pr <peily covered or otherwise guarded to 
the . atisf action of the Commissioners, so that they shall be protected from rlust, 
dirt and flies, 

423. Repealed. 

424. Repealed. 

425. Repealed. 



1142 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUI Y 2f\ l-HL /iKAVAN Y 7, 1883 [Paki II 


Inspection, seizure and destruction of joed, and drugs 

426. Power to Inspect place where unlawful slaughter of animals or sale of 

flesh is suspected- — If the Commissioners, Executive Officer, Health Officer, 

Samiary Inspector, or any other officer authorized by the Commissioners in this 

behalf have or has reason to believe than any animal intended for human food is 
being slaughtered, or that the flesh of any such animal Is being sold or exposed 
for sale, In any place or manner not duly authorized under this Act, the Com- 
missioners, Executive Offic-i, Health Officer, Sanflary inspector or other officer 
as al’oiesaid may obtain a warrant from a Magistrate to enter at any-time by day 
or by night, without notice, and inspect such place for the purpose of satisfying 
themselves or himself as to whether any provision of this Act or of any rule 

or by-law made under this act, at the time in force, is being contravened thereat, 

427. Power to inspect place where living- things, etc., Intended for human 
consumption, are exposed for sale. — (1) The Commissioners, Executive Officer, 
Health Officer, Eanitary Inspector, or any other officer authorized by the Com- 
missioners in this behalf may — 

(a) at all reasonable times enter into and inspect any place in which any 
living thing intended for human food or any other article of food or 
any drug, is deposited for the purpose of sale or of preparation for 
sale, or to which such living thing, article of food, or drug intended 
for human consumption is brought for sucii purpose. 

fb ) inspect and examine any such living thing or other article of food or 
drug v.luch may be iuund in any place referred to in clause (a), and 

(c) inspect anfl examine any living thing intended for human food or any 
other article of loud, oi any drug intended for human consumption, 
which is being hawked about for sale. 

(2) If, as a result of such inspection as is provided for in sub-section ( 1 , a 
prosecution is instituted under this chapter, then the burden of proving that any 
such living thing, or other article of food or drug as aforesaid was not exposed 
or hawked about or deposited or bi ought for sale or for preparation for sale or 
was not Intended for human consumption shall rest with the party charged. 

42ft. Power to seize living things, etc.. Intended for human consumption which 
are diseased, etc. — (l) If In the course of an inspection of a place made under 
section 127 any such living thing appears to the Commissioners, Executive Oilicer, 
PIcallh Officer, Sanitary Inspector or other officer, duly authorised by the Com- 
mu si oners in this behalf to be diseased or if any article of food or drug appears 
io them or him to be unsound, unwholesome or unfit for human food or for 
mechcLne, as the case may be, or if any utensil or vessel used for preparing, or 
containing any such food or drug, which may be found in such place is of such 
kind or in such state as to lender any food or drug prepared or contained therein 
unwholesome or unfit for human food or for medicine, as the case may be, they 
or he may seize and carry away such living thing, article of food, drug, utensil 
or vessel as aforesaid in order that the same may be dealt with as hereinafter 
in this chapter provided. 

Explanation . — (1) Meat subjected to the nroiess of blowing shall be deemed 
to be unfit for human food. 

(2) A vessel made of any corrosive metal or material notified in this behalf 
by the State Government as dangerous to health, which is used for the prepara- 
tion of liquid tea lor sale shall be deemed to be of the kind referred to in sub- 
section (11 

(21 The Commissioners, Executive Officer, Health Officer, Sanitary Inspector 
or such other officer authorized as aforesaid may, instead of carrying away any 
living thing, article of food, drug, utensil or vessel seized under sub-section (1), 
Jeare the same in such safe custody as they or he thinks fit in order that the same 
may be dealt with as hereinafter in this chapter provided; and no person shall 
remove such living thing, article of food, drug, utensil or vessel from such custody 
or interfere or tamper with the same in any way while so detained. 

429. Destruction of living things, etc., seized under section 428. — (1) When 
any living thing, article of food, drug, utensil or vessel referred to in section 428 
is sowed under that section it may, with the written consent (witnessed by two 
other persons') of the owner or the person in whose possession it was found, be- 
forthwith destroyed. 



.Sri . 3py] THE G\/ETIE Ol’ INDIA. JUL\ 29. 1961/SRAVANA 1 1883 


i>43 


(2 J If such consent be not obtained, then, if any food or drug so seized is 
of a perishable nature, the officer seizing such food or drug may take it. before 
the Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Executive Officer or Health Officer and if in the 
opinion of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Executive Officer or Heulth Officer, as 
the case may be, such food or drug is unsound, unwholesome or unfit for hummi 
consumption, he shall condemn it and order it to be destroyed or so disposed of 
as to prevent it being sold or used for human consumption. 

(3) A Magistrate shall not be bound to hoar the owner of such food before 
passing an order under sub-section (2) ancl if in his discretion he deems It 
necessary to give a hearing to such owner, such hearing shall be meiely for the 
purpuse of determining whether such food Is unsound, unwholesome or unfit for 
human food. 

4,’,0. Sale of unwholesome food or drug. — If any Magistrate is satisfied on 
the application of the Commissioners, Health Officer, Sanitary Inspector or any 
other ffiieer authorised by the Commissioners in this behalf that there is just 
cau e Ij believe that any diseased living thing intended for human food or any 
ti od i' drug, which is unsound, unwholesome or unfit for human food or medicine 
is ni the possession of any person for the purpose of being sold or offered or 
exposed lor sale within the limits of a municipality, for such consumption, he 
mac grant a warrant to enter upon the premises of such person, and to search 
for end seize such living thing, article of food or drug, 

411. Taking before Magistrate animals, etc., seized under section 428. — (1 
Whui(. any living thing, article of food drug, utensil or vessel seized under section 
4211 is not des + royed "by consent under sub-section (1) oi section 429, or where 
an uiticle of food or drug so seized which Is perishable is not dealt with urdei 
slid section (2) of that section, it shall be taken before a Magistrate as soon as 
mav be after such seizure. 

121 IC it appears to the Magistrate that any such living thing is diseased or 
inv- utu I or that any such food or drug is unsound, unwholesome or unfit for 
pinna n rood or for medicine, as the case may be, or that any such utensfi nr 
vessel is of such kind or in such state as is mentioned in sub-section (.1) oi 
section 123, he shall cause the same to be destroyed at the expense of the person 
in whose possession It was at the time of its seizure, or to be otherwise disposed 
ot by the Commissioners so as not to be capable of being used as human food 
or tried ielnc. 

(3) If it appears to the Magistrate that any such living thing is not diseased 
or that any such food or drug is not unsound, unwholesome or unfit for human 
food or for medicine, as the case may be, or that anv such utensil or vessel is 
not used for preparing, manufacturing or containing food or drugs wljich are 
unsound, unwholesome or unfit for human food or for medicine, as the case may 
be. Ihe person from whose shop or place it was taken shnll be entitled to have 
it ; osijred to him, and it shall be in the discretion of the Magistrate to award 
htni ■-uch compensation, not exceeding the actual loss which he has sustained, 
as the Magistrate may think proper. 

Vesting of condemned food or drug in Comm ; ssmnerc,. 

432. Fond aDd drugs directed to be destroyed, etc,, to be pro’x-rty of Commis- 
sioners. — When any authority directs in exercise of any powers conferred by this 
chapter, the destruction of any living thing food or any drug or the disposal of 
the same so as to prevent its being used as food or medicine, the same shall there- 
upon be deemed to be the property of the Commissioners, 


Slaughter of animals on bona fide religious of ceremonial occasions, 

433. This chapter not to apply to slaughter of animals in certain eases. — Nothing 
in this Chnpter shall apply to the slaughter of animals for bona fide religious 
purpose or on a ceremonial occasion. 


Purity of milk-supply 

434. Regulation of dairies and milk supply. — The Commlssioneis at a meeting 
may, and when required by the State Government shall make by-luws regarding 
all or any of the followdng matters:- — 

(a) the registration of all dairymen, oi persons selling milk, and dairies 
within the municipality; 



ii44 


[Part I! 


I HE GAZETTE OE INDIA: JULY 20, lOfilySRAVANA 7, 1883 


(b) the inspection by the Commissioners or persons authorized by them of 

dairies and dairy cattle within or without the municipality from which 
milk is supplied to the inhabitants of the municipality and of persons 
in or about dairies who have access to the milk or any milk-receptacle, 

(c) the duties of dairymen or persons selling milk in connection with the 

occurrence of infectious or contagious disease amongst persons residing 
or employed in or about their premises, and the furnishing by them 
of the names and addresses of their customers and sources of supply, 
and their duties in connection with reporting the occurrence in any 
dairy cattle of diseases which are communicable to man and of any 
disease of the udder; 

(d) the conveyance and distribution of milk, and the labelling or marking 

of receptacles used for the conveyance of milk; 

(e) the ventilation, including air-space, lighting, cleansing, drainage and 

water-supply of dairies; 

(f) the health and good condition of the milch-cattle in dairies; 

(g) the cleanliness of dairies, milk-receptacles, dairy cattle and all persons 

employed in or about dairies; 

(h) the protection of milk against infection or contamination; 

(i) the prevention of the sale of infected, contaminated, or dirty milk, the 

prohibition of the sale and the disposal of any milk suspected of being 
infected, contaminated or dirty, and the closing of any dairy where 
such milk is kept for sale or the exclusion therefrom of any animal, 
the milk from which there is reason to believe has conveyed or is 
likely to convey any infectious disease; and 

(j) any other measures and precautions which in the opinion of the State 

Government may be necessary to secure and maintain tjie purity of 
the .. Mk-tupply 

Chapter XX — Places for disposal of the Dead and Registration of Bikiiis and 

Deaths 

435. Registration of existing burial or burning grounds. — Within three months 
from the date of the publication of a notification by the State Government extend- 
ing this section to any municipality every place therein which is used as a burial 
or burning-ground for corpses shall he registered as such by the owner thereof in 
the office of the Commissioners but no fee shall be charged for such registration. 

436. Permission to make or resume burial and burning grounds and registration 

of same. — The Commissioners at a meeting may in their discretion at any time 
grant permission for the formation and making of burial or burning-grounds, or 
for the renewed use of such grounds as, owing to disuse, have not been registered 
under section 435 and when such permission has been granted shall cause such 
ground to be registered. 

437. Provision of places to be used as burial or burning grounds. — The Commis- 
sioners at a meeting may, from time to time, out of the Municipal Fund with the 
sanction of tb j District Magistrate, provide fitting places either within or without 
the limits o he municipality to be used as buriul or burning-grounds, and may 
Impose such Icy as may be fixed in this behalf by the Commissioners at u meeting 
with the aP'i/L il of the State Government, in respect of every corpse buried or 
burnt within sm n burial or burning-grounds, 

138. Prohibits i ti bury or hurn in unregistered ground, — (1) After the expira- 
tion of the thiee i ■ d-hI''- mentioned in section 435, no corpse shall bo buried or 
burnt otherwise th n n place which is borne on the register of the Commissioners 
as an open burial m bin , ilng-ground or has been provided by the Commissioners 
for the purpose- but the Commissioners may grant special permission for a corpse 
to be buried o fount -u-ewhere 

(2) Except with the special permission of the Commissioners no bodv shall be 
exhumed from any burial-ground except under the nrnvisions of section 176 of 
the Code of Criminal Procedure. 1898 (Act V of 1398) or oi any other relevant 
enactment for the tim“ being in force. 

439. Power to order certain burial and burning-grounds to be closed, — (1) The 

Commissioners at a meeting may, by public notice, order any burial or burning- 
ground, whether registered under section 435 or provided under section 437, which 



Si c . 3ii)] 1IJF CtA/FIIE OF 1X111A : J l ! J_ \ lit) 19G1/SRAVANA 7 18H3 


1145 


in their opinion is dangerous or likely to be dangerous to the health of persona 
living in the neighbourhood, or to be offensive to such persons, to be closed from 
a date specified in the notice, and shall, in such ease, if no suitable place ior burial 
or burning exists at a reasonable distance, provide a fitting place for the purpose. 

(2J When a notice is issued ordering the closing of any burial-ground under 
sub-section (1), private burial-places in such burial-grounds may be excepted irom 
the notice, subject to such conditions as the Commissioners at a meeting may 
impose in this behalf: 

Provided that the limits of such burial-places are defined and that they shall 
only be used for the burial of members of the family of the owners thereof, 

If the Commissioners at a meeting are, at any time of opinion that any place 
formerly used as a burial or burning-ground which has been closed under this 
section or under any other enactment or authority has, by lapse of time, become 
no longei dangerous to health and may, without risk of danger, be again used for 
the said purpose, they may direct that it be reopened for such purpose and their 
order shall be noted in the register kept under section ■135. 

440. Appeals from orders under section 439.— Any person aggrieved by any 
order made by the Commissioners under the powers conferred upon them by 
section 439 may appeal to the State Government, whose decision shall be final. 

441. Power to cause corpses to be burnt or burled according to the religious 
tenets of the deceased. — (l) After the expiration of not less than twenty-four 
hours ftom the death of any person, the Commissioners may cause the corpse of 
such person to be burnt or buried. In every such case the corpse shall be dis- 
posed of, so far as may be possible, in a manner consistent with the religious tenets 
of the deceased. 

(2) If a person dies in a hospital or temporary place of reception for the sick 
from any infectious disease, and the Health Officer or any registered medical 
practitioner certifies that in his opinion it is desirable, in order to prevent the risk 
of communicating any infectious disease or of spreading infection, that the body 
shall not be removed from such hospital or place, except for llie purpose of being 
forthwith buried or cremated, no person shall remove the body except for that 
purpose; and the body when taken out of such hospital or place for that purpose 
shall be forthwith taken direct to the place of burial or cremation and there dis- 
posed of. 

442. Power to provide for burial of paupers, free of charge. — The Commissioners 
at a meeting may, from time to time, out of the Municipal Fund, provide for the 
burial and burning o f the dead bodies nf paupers, tree of charge, within the limits 
of the municipality. 

443. Power to license fuel snops at burning-grounds. — (1) The Commissioners 
may, from lime to time, grant licenses to persons applying fur the same, ior the 
sale at burning-grounds of fuel and other articles used for the cremation of dead 
bodies, and in case any such license is granted shall, from time to lime at a meet- 
ing, prescribe a scale of rates for the sale of such articles; and no person not so 
licensed shall, within three hundred yards of any such burning-grounds, sell or 
offer for sale any such fuel or other article. 

(2) The Commissioners may, on good and sufficient cause, revoke or withdraw 
an.v such license as they may think fit, and any person to whom such license is 
Runted, who charges for the sale of uny such articles at any higher rate than 
the rate fixed for such article in such scale, shall, at the discretion of the Com- 
missioners, he liable to have his license cancelled and shall he liable also to fine 
as provided in this Act. 

444 Registration of births and deaths. — The Commissioners, when required by 
the State Government to do so, shall provide at a meeting for the registration of 
births and deaths within the limits of the municipality In accordance with the 
provisions of the law relating to registration of births and deaths in foiee in the 
Union territory of Tripura. 

445 Appointment of Registrar and of Sub-Registrars at burning-f/hrrts and 
burial-grounds. — (1) This section shall be construed as being in addition to and 
not in derogation of the provisions of the law relating to the registration of births 
and deaths for the time being In force in Tripura. 



1146 


T11E GA/ETIE Ol' JNDIA : JUI^ 2) 1‘JtilySR VVANA 7, 1883 


[P\1U II 


(2) The Commissioners, when required by the State Government to do so, shall 
appoint at a meeting a person to be Registrar ol Births and Deaths for the whole 
municipality and may also appoint and maintain at any burning-ghat or buiial- 
ground a Sub-Registrar lor the registration of all corpses brought to such burning- 
ghat or burial-ground lor cremation or interment. 

446. Registrars at burning-ghats and burial grounds. — Whenever a sub-Registiar 
has been appointed for any burning-ghat or burial ground under section 445, 
information ol the particulars required, by the law referred to in that section, to 
be known and registered may be given in respect ot the death ol any person whose 
body is brought to such burning-ghat or burial ground lor cremation of interment 
to such Sub-Registrar and information so given shall be deemed to be information 
given to the Registrar as required by such law The provisions of the said law 
shall be applicable to all Sub-Registrars appointed under this Act. 

447. Information for births and deaths in hospital,— Whenever a birth or death 
occurs in any hospital within the limits of any municipality 111 iespecl of which the 
State Government has directed that all bhlhs and deaths shall be registered under 
the law in force in Tripura, it shall be the duty of the medical officer in charge 
of such hospital forthwith to send a notice in writing of the occurrence of such 
birth or death to the Commissioners in such form as the State Government may 
prescribe, and in such case no other person shall be required to give information 
of such birth or death to a Registrar under the said law or to a Sub-Registrar 
mldei (his Act. 

413. Power to make rules — r lhe Stale Government may malu luies — 

(i) requiring the father or mother of every child born in any municipality 
or the occupier of the building in which such child Is born 01 the 
medical practitioner or midwife in attendance at the time ot birth 
within such specified period as may be fixed to give information ol 
such birth to the Health Officer or Sanitary Inspector or other officer 
appointed for the purpose, and to furnish such particulars as may be 
prescribed by the State Government in this behali; 

(11) requiring the nearest relative present at the death of, or in attendance 
during the last illness of, any person dying in any municipality or the 
medical practitioner, if any, who attended such person in bis last 
illness or every other person present at the death, or, In their default, 
the occupier of the building in which the death occurred or some other 
person living in the building to report within a specified period such 
death to the Health Officer, Sanitary Inspector, Sub-Registrar appointed 
under section 445 or other officer appointed for the purpose, giving 
such particulars as the State Government may prescribe; 

(iii) controlling and regulating the use and management of burial and 

burning-grounds and the disposal of corpses; 

(iv) generally for securing the better registration of births and deaths. 


Chapter XXI — Nuisance 

449. Nuisance. — (1) The powers conferred by this chapter shall be deemed to 
be in addition to and not in derogation of any powers conferred by the other 
provisions of this Act. 

(2) (a) The condition of— 

(i) any premises or part thereof of such a construction or in such a “tate 

"or so situated or so dirty us to be a cause of annoyance to the in- 
mates thereof, the neighbours or the public or injurious or dangerous 
to health or unsafe, including places infested by, or providing haunts 
for mosquitoes or mosquito larvae, flies or flv maggots, hookworm 
larvae or ova, or rats or othei noxious animals, or insects, and t here- 
by liable to favour the spread of infectious disease; 

(ii) any street, tank, pool ditch, gutter, watercourse, sink, cistern, water- 

closet, earth-closet, prjvv, urinal, cesspool, drain, dungpit or ash-pit 
so foul or in such a state or so situated as to be a cause of annoyance 
to the inmates of the premises, the neighbours or the public, as the 
case may be, or injurious or dangerous to health; 

(iii ) any premises by reason of abandonment or disputed ownership or for 

any other reason remain untenonted and thereby become a resort, of 
idle and disorderly persons; 



Sec, 3 (1 )] TJIE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JU1 V 2'J. 1961/SRAVANA 7 1S83 H 47 

(iv) any school, factory, workshop or other trade premises so unclean as to 
be a cause of annoyance to the inmates, the neighbours or the public, 
or injurious to health, or not so ventilated as to render harmless, as 
far as practicable, all gases, vapours, dust or other impurities, gene- 
rated in the course of the work carried on therein, that are a cause 
of annoy uric-- to the inmates, the neighbours or the public or injuri- 
ous to health, or so overcrowded as to be injurious to the health of 
the persons therein engaged or employed, or not provided with 
sufficient and suitable privy or urinal accommodation; 

(v) any offensive trade or business so carried on as to be injurious to health 

or unnecessarily offensive to the public. 

( vi) any well, tank or other water-supply injurious to dangerous to health; 

fvii) any stable, cowshed or other building or enclosure in whieh any animal 

or animals are kept m such a manner or in such numbers as to be a 
cause of annoyance to the inmates of the premises, the neighbours nr 
the public or injurious or dangerous to health; 

(. viii > any burial or burning- ground which m the opinion of Ihe Commissio- 
ners at a meeting is injurious or dangerous or Jikely to be injurious 
or dangerous to the health of persons living in th neighbourhood or 
to the public or offensive to such persons; 

(ix) any accumulation or deposit, including any deposit oL animal or vege- 
table or mineral refuse, which is offensive to the neighboui s or to 
th: public for injurious or dangerous to health or any deposit of 
offensive matter, refuse or offal or manure within fifty yards of any 
public street, wherever situated; and 

(b) anv act, omission, condition or thing which the Slate Government by noti- 
fication shall declare to be a nuisance, 01 which aft:r due inquiry by the Com- 
missioners on the complaint of two or more persons rending , u the neighbour- 
hood b found bv the Commissioners tc be a cause of annoy met • In the neighbours 
or to the inmates of th" premises affected or to 1h- nubile n to be dangerous or 
injurious to health; 

shall be deemed to be a nuisance to be dealt vilh un ttm provisions of this 
chapter; 

Provided that no nuisance shall be deemed to hn\ h**cn committed in respect 
of any accumulation or deposit necessary for th ■ effectual carrying on of any 
business, trade or manufacture, if it be proved to the .satisfaction of the Court that 
the accumulation or deposit has not been kept longer than ; s necessary for the 
purposes of the business, trade or manufacture, and that the best available 
means have been taken for preventing injury or danger thereby to tiic public 
health. 

"Author of a nuisance” in this chapter means a person by whose act, default, 
or sufferance the nuisance is caused, exists or is continued, whether he is an 
ownt-r or occupier or both owner and occupier or any oth-r person. 

450. Inspection of Municipality for ascertaining existence of nuisance. — (1) The 

Commissioners shall cause to be made from time to time inspection of the munici- 
pality with a view to ascertain what nuisances exist calling for removal under 
the powers of this Act, and shall enforce so far as possible the provisions of this 
Act in order to remove the same, and otherwise put in force the powers vested 
in them relating to public health, so as to secure the proper sanitary condition of 
all premises within the municipality. 

(21 If the Commissioners or Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector have or 
has reasonable grounds for believing that a nuisance exists in any premises, they 
or he may make an inspection of such premises at any hour, when the operations 
suspected to cause nuisance are believed to b - ' in progress or are usually carried 
on or when the special conditions susoected 1o cause the nuisance are believed 
to exist, and may cause such work to be done as may be necessary for an effec- 
tual examination of the said premises, including the opening of the ground or 
surface, where necessary, and the testing of the drains. 

(31 Where the ground or surface has be-n opened and no nuisance is found 
to exist, the Commissioners shall restore the premises at their own cost, 

451. Municipal officer to give information as to nuisances — Information of any 
nuisance under this chapter may b: given to the Commissioners by any person 
and every municipal officer shall bring the existence of any nuisance to the notice 
of the Commissioners or cause it to be brought to their notice. 



TIIK GAZE f 1 E oi' INDIV.JILY "0 l.'ilysRAVANA 7, 1883 [Pwr II 


4,32 Notice to remove nuisance, — The Commissioners, if satisfied of the exis- 
tence of a nuisance, shall serve a notice on the author of the nuisance or if he 
cannot be found, then on the owner or occupier of the building or premises on 
which the nuisance arises or continues, requiring him to remove it within the 
time specified in the notice and to execute such v, rules and do such things as 
may be necessary for that purpose and if the Commissioners think it desirable 
(but not otherwise) specifying any works to be executed to prevent a recurrence 
of the said nuisance: 

Provided that— 

(a) where the nuisance anscs from any want or defect of a structural 

character, or where the huiiding or premises are unoccupied, the 
notici shall be served on the owner; 

(b) where the author of the nuisance cannot be found and it is clear that the 

nuisance does not arise or continue by the act or default or sufferance 
of the occupier or owner or occupier of the building or premises, the 
Commissioners shall remove the same and may do what is necessary 
to prevent the recurrence thereof. 


453, Procedure in case owner fails to comply with notice — (1) If the peison 
on whom a notice to remove a nuisance has been served under section 452 fails 
to comply with any of the requirements thereof within the time specified, or If 
the nuisance, although removed since the service of the notice, is in the opinion 
of th" Commissioners likely to recur on the same premises, the Commissioners 
shall cause a complaint relating to such nuisance to be made before a M-igishMe, 
and such Magistrate shall thereupon issue a summons requiring the person on 
whom the notice was served to appear b fore him. 

(2) If the Magistrate is satisfied lint the alleged nuisance exists, or that, 
although removed, it is likely to recur on the same premia s, he shall make — 

(a) on the author thereof, or the owner or occupier of the premises, as 

the case may be, an order i squiring him to comply with all or any of 
the requirements of the notice or otherwise to remove the nuisance 
within a time specified in the o> d ■!’ and to do any works necessary 
for that purpose or an order prohibiting the recurrence of the nui- 
sance and directing the execution of any works necessary to prevent 
th ' recurrence, or an order both requiring the removal and prohibit- 
ing the recurrence of the nuisance, or 

(b) an order on the Commissioners directing them to remove or pi event 

the recurrence ol Hie nuisanc o’ both, al the expense of the author 
thereof or the owser or occupier of the premises, as the case may be. 

(3) Before making any order the Magistrate may, if he thinks fit, adjourn the 
hearing or further hearing of the case until an Inspection, investigation or analy- 
sis in respect of the nuisance alleged has been made by somi competent peison. 

(4) Any costs incurred by the Commissioners in executing an order of the 
Magistrate under clause (b) of suh-secfioi (2) shall b^ payable on dcvo-nil 

if not paid on demand, may be recovered bv distiess and sale of the movable pro- 
perty of the defaulter 


454 Magistrate may order local authority to execute works In certain rases. — 
Whenever it appears to the satisfaction of the Magistrate that the authoi of the 
nuisance or that the owner or occupier of the premises is not known or cannot 
be found, the Magistrate may at once order the Commissioners to execute the 
works thereby directed and the cost of executing the same shall be payable on 
demand by the defaulter, if subsequently found, and if not paid on demand 
within fifteen days from the date of the execution of the work, may be recovered 
by distress and sale of the movable property of the defaulter, if known. 


455 Award of compensation. — The Magistrate in making an order under this 
chapter may, if he is of opinion that the person on whom a notice has been 
served to remove a nuisance or any other person would have been entitled to 
compensation, had the proceedings been taken otheiwise than under this chapter, 
award such compensation to such person, 



Sec. 3(i)] THF. GA7F.TTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 H 49 


Chapter XXII — General 
Education 

45G. Education Committee. — In every municipality there shall be constituted 
an Education Committee consisting of — 

(al an educational officer, or other person interested In education appointed 
by the State Government; 

(b) not less than two, or more than four Commissioners appointed from 

among themselves by the Commissioners at a meeting; and 

(c) not more than three residents of the municipality not being Commis- 

sioners, appointed by the Commissioners at a meeting. 

The Education Committee shall appoint its own Chairman and Secretary- 

457. Duties of Education Committee. — It shall be the duty of the Education 
Committee subject to the Control of the Commissioners at a meeting and to the 
rules made by the State Government — - 

(i) to superintend all matters connected with the finance, accounts, main- 
tenance and management of all schools, libraries and museums main- 
tained by the Commissioners, and 

f ii) to determine the conditions to be complied with when grants are- 
made by the Commissioners to schools, libraries and museums. 

458. Transfer of funds by Government for education— (1) The State Govern- 
ment may transfer to the Commissioners such funds as it may deem necessary 
for expenditure on — 

(a) the improvement of any school or class of schools within the munici- 

pality under private management; or 

(b) the maintenance or improvement of any school or class of schools 

maintained and managed by the Commissioners; or 

(cl the provision of buildings to be used as student’s hostels in connec- 
tion with any school mentioned in clause (a) or clause (b). 

(21 The Commissioners shall be charged with, and be responsible for, the 
proper distribution of funds transferred under sub-section ( 1 ). 

459 Powers to make rules regarding maintenance and management of 
schools. -The State Government may make rules — 

(i) determining the classes of schools which may be maintained or aided 
by the Commissioners; 

(ial regulating the maintenance and management of such schools; 

(ill regulating the construction and repair of buildings connected with 
such schools; 

(iii) regulating the appointment and salaries of masters and assistant 
masters of such schools; 

(Ivl regulating the establishment of scholarships generally, or for the- 
furtherance of technical or any other special form of education; and 

(v) regulating the conduct of business and duties of Education Com- 
mittees. 


Hospitals and dispensaries 

449 A Power to make rules re mil at I ox the establishment, maintenance and 
ininaRemcnt of hospitals and dispensaries, — The State Government may mnke 
rules regulating the establishment, maintenance and management of hospitals 
and dispensaries by the Commissioners. 

Sarals, dharamsalas and lodging-houses 

4(50. Power of Commissioners to regulate sarals, dharamsalas and lodging- 
houses by by-law — The Commissioners at a meeting may make by-laws provid- 
ing: 

(al for the registration and inspection of sarais, dharamsalas and other 
lodging-houses; 



THE GAZETTE OK INDIA : JULY 20 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 1883 


1150 


[Part II 


(b) for the prevention of overcrowding and the promotion of cleanliness 
and ventilation therein; 

(cl for the notices to be given and the precautions to be taken in the case 
of the outbreak therein of any infectious or contagious disease; and 

(d) generally for the proper regulation of sarais, dhnramsalas and 
other lodging-houses. 

Hackney carriages 

******** 

Survey, 

«***«*«* 

463. Powers to make by-laws for maintenance of survey maps. — The Commis- 
sioners at a meeting may make by-laws — 

(a) requiring the owner of any land or building to give notice to them of 

any alteration in the boundary of such land or of the erection of 
any new building thereon or of any material alteration or addition 
to a building. 

(b) providing for the erection from time to time and for the maintenance 

by owners of lands or buildings of suitable boundary marks defining 
the limits of all lands which form separate holdings. 

Map of municipal properties and municipal institutions 

464. Commissioners to maintain map showing all municipal properties, public 
streets and drains. — The Commissioners shall maintain at the municipal office 
a map showing the position of all lands and buildings belonging to the Commis- 
sioners and of all municipal institutions and all public streets and drains. 

Dogs. 

464A, Power to require that dogs shall carry tokens. — The Commissioners may, 
by public notice, require that every dog shall wear a collar to which shall be 
attached a token to be issued by the Commissioners, and may, from time to time, 
by like notice, announce that, with effect from a date to be specified in the notice, 
every dog found wandering about streets or public places without a collar bear- 
ing such token will be liable to be destroyed or otherwise disposed of. 

465. Disposal of mad and stray dogs. — (1) The Commission rs, by any person 
.authorized hy them in this behalf, may — 

(i) destroy or cause to be destroyed or confine, or cause to be confined, for 

such period as the Commissioners may direct, any dog suffering from 
any loathsome disease or from rabies, or reasonably suspect to be 
suffering from rabies, or bitten by any dog or other animal suffering 
or suspected to be suffering from rabies; and 

(ii) after a date specified in this behalf in a notice published under section 

464A, destroy or cause to bo destroyed or otherwise dispose of any 
dog found wandering about streets or public places without a collar 
bearing a token issued by the Commissioners under section 464A. 

(2) No damages shall be payable by the Commissioners or by any person 
authorised under this section in respect of any dog confined, destroyed or other- 
wise disposed of under this section. 

Noxious animals 

466. Rewards for destruction of noxious animals. — The Commissioners at a 
meeting may offer rewards for the destruction of noxious animals within the limits 
of the municipality! 

Licenses 

467. Holder of license to produce It when required. — Every person to whom a 
license has been granted under this Act shall, at all reasonable times while such 
license remains in force, if required so to do by the Commissioners or by any per- 
son authorized by them In that behalf, produce such license to the Commissioners 
or to the person so authorized. 

468. Suspension or revocation of license, etc. — Any Magistrate before whom any 
person is convicted of an offence against the provisions of this Act, relating to the 
use of any place for purpose for which a license is required or of the non-observance 
of any of the by-laws or conditions relating thereto made or imposed under this 
Act, In addition to the fine which may be Imposed on such person under this Act, 
may suspend, for any period not exceeding two months, any such license, and the 
'Commissioners, upon the conviction of any person for a second or subsequent like 
offence, may cancel his license. 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZEliE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 If5I 


Chapter XXIV. — Penalties 

500, Certain offences punishable with flue. — (1) Whoever commits any offence 
by— 

(a) contravening any provision of any of the sections, sub-sections, clauses 

of sections or provisos of this Act mentioned in the first column of 
the following table, or 

(b) failing to comply with any direction lawfully given to him or any 

requisition lawfully made upon him under any of the said sections, 
sub-sections, clauses or provisos, 

shall be punished wilh fine which may extend to the amount mentioned in that 
behalf in the third column of the said table. 

(2) Whoever, after having been convicted of any offence referred to In clause 
(al or clause (b) of sub-section (1), continues to commit such offence shall be 
punished for each day after the first during which he continues so to offend, with 
fine which may extend to the amount mentioned in this behalf in the fourth column 
of the said table. 

Explanation , — The entries in the second column of the following table headed 
“Subject" are not intended as definitions of the offences described. In the provisions 
mentioped in the first column, or even as abstracts of those provisions, Tut are 
inserted merely as references to the subject thereof. 


Sections, sub- 


. 

Daily fine 

sections, clauses 

Subject. 

Fine which may be imposed. 

which may be 

or provisos. 


imposed. 

i 

2 

3 

4 


Section 62, sub-sec- 
tion (2), clause (c). 

Commissioners unlawfully Five hundred rupees, 
acquiring share or interest 
or holding office of profit. 


Section 72, sub-sec- 
tion (3). 

Municipal officers and ser- 
vants unlawfully acquir- 
ing share or interest in 
contract, 

Two hundred and fifty rupees 


Section 127 , 

Requisition for list of the 
number of persons residing 
in a holding. 

One hundred rupees. 


Section 134 

Requisition for returns, 
rent or annual value and 
description of holdings. 

Twenty rupees 

Five rupees, 

Section 143 . 

Obligation to give notice of 
re-occupation ol unoccu- 
pied holding. 

Twenty-five rupees . 

Five rupees. 

Section 144 . 

Obligaton to give notice of 
transfer of title in land or 
building. 

Twentv-five rupees. 

Five rupees. 

Section 144 A 

Obligation to give notice 
of transfer of title in land 
or building by inheritance. 

Twenty-five rupees. 

Five rupees. 

Section 164 , 

Unlawful purchase at a 
municipal auction. 

Five hundred rupees. 


Section 171, sub-sec- 
tion (r). 

Obligation to forward state- 
ment of carriages and 
animals liable to taxation. 

Twenty rupees, 


Section 172 . 

Obligation to forward state- 
ment of carriages and ani- 
mals liable to taxation. 

Twenty rupees. 





T1 S2 THE GA/ETfE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 199] y 'SR.AVANA 7, 1833 [Paht I£ 


Sections, sub- 
sections, clauses 
or provisos. 

I 

Subject. 

2 

Fine which may be imposed. 

3 

Daily fine 
which may be 
imposed, 

4 

Section T7S . 

Keeping or possessing car- 
riage or animal without a 
license. 

Three nmes the amount pay- 
able for license, exclusive 
of the amount so payable. 


Section 178, sub-sec^, 
tion (3). 

Failure to attend when sum- 
moned. 

Fifty rupees. 


Section 182 . 

Failure to take nut a license. 

Twice the amount payable 
for license, exclusive of the 
amount so payable. 


Section 188 . 

(1) Keeping or possessing 
cart not duly registered. 

(ii) Failing to affix registra- 
tion number to cart. 

Twice the amount payable 
for license, exclusive of the 
amount so payable. 

Five rupees. 


Section 197 . 

Unlawfully refusing to 

leave a municipal ferry 
boat or to remove goods 
therefrom. 

Ten rupees. 


Section 198 , 

Kerpbit? unauthorised ferry 
boat, 

Fifty rupees 

Ten rupees. 

Section 204 . 

Refusing to pay or avoiding 
payment of toll. 

Fifty rupees. 


Section 207 

Failure to hang up table of 
tolls. 

Fifty rupees 

Ten rupees. 

Section 211 . 

Demanding or taking un- 
authorised toll. 

Fifty rupees. 



Section 218, sub-sec- \j) Prohibition ot erection Two hundred and fifty rupees Twenty-five- 
tion (i). of, or addition to, build- rupees, 

ing or wall within street 
alignment prescribed un- 
dei seclton 217. 

(ii) Requisition to remove Fifty rupees . . . Ten rupees, 

building erected or added 
within street alignment 
prescribed under section 
217. 

Section 2 1 8, sub-sec- Prohibition of erection of, Two hundred rupees . Twenty rupees 
tion (3). or addition to, building 

between street alignment 
and building-line pres- 
cribed under section 217. 

Section 21 8, sub-scc- Requisition to remove build- Fifty rupees . , Ten rupees, 

tion (4). ing erected or added to 

between street alignment 
and building-line pres- 
cribed under section 217. 

Section 224 . iji Prohibition of erection Two hundred and fifty rupees iwenty-five 

ot, or addition to, build- rupees., 

ing or wall wilhm street 
alignment of stieet pro- 
jected under section 223. 

(ii) Requisition to remove Fifty rupees . . . 1 en rupees, 

building erected or added 
to on site between street 
alignment and huilding- 
Line of a street projected 
under section 223, 



Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY l!9, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1889 


1153 


Section*; sub- 
sections, donee* 
or proviso*. 

J 


Dsily fine 

Subject. Fine which moy be imposed, which may be 

imposed. 

2 3 4 


Section 226 . . Unlawfully making or lay- Two hundred and fifty Twenty-five 

ing out a private street. rupees. rupee*. 

Section 228, sub-sec- Requisition on owner of One hundred rupees . Ten rupees, 
tion (r). private street or owner or 

occupier of adjoining land 
to level; etc., such street. 

Section 230, sub-sec- Unlawfully interfering with Fifty rupees, 
tion ( 3 ). arrangement made for 

guarding against aeddent. 

Section 231, sub-sec- Unlawfully constructing One hundred rupees . Twenty rupees. 

tion (2), hoardings or fences, etc., 

or removing the same or 
failure to construct or to 
keep the same sufficiently 
lighted at night 

Section 232 . , Unlawfully depositing mov- One hundred rupees . Twenty rupees, 

able property on or mak- 
ing excavation in, or 
endowing any public 
street or failure to make 
suitable provision for 
passage of the public, to 
erect suffident fences and 
to keep the same sufficient- 
ly lighted. 

Section 234 . Unlawfully using road dosed One hundred rupees, 

to certain classes of traffic. 

Section 235, sub-sec- Putting up verandahs, etc., Two hundred and fifty 

tion (r) to project over street rupees, 

without permission. 

Section 235, sub-sec- Requisition on ovvner or One hundred rupees . Twenty rupees. 

tion (4). occupier of building to 

comply with condition 
subject to which permis- 
sion was given to put up 
verandahs, etc., project- 
ing over street. 

Section 236, sub-sec- Constructing platform upon Two hundred and fifty Twenty-five 
tion (l). or over any public street rupees. rupees, 

or drain without per- 
mission. 

Section 236, sub-sec- Failure to take out a license Fifty rupees . . . Ten rupees, 

tion (3). for platform. 

Section 237 . , Requisition on owner to Fifty rupees . . . Ten rupees, 

remove obstruction to 
public street or drain 
caused by fallen building, 
wall, etc. 

Section 238, sub-sec- Digging or cutting up a One hundred rupees, 
tion ( 1 ). public street without per- 

mission. 

Section 239 . . Requisition on owner or Fifty rupees . . . Ten rupees . 

occupier to put up and 
keep in good condition 
proper troughs and pipes 
for receiving or carrying 
off water from building 
or land. 




1154 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 196 1 /SR A VAN A 7, 1883 [P/bt IX 


Sections, sub- 
sections, clauses 
or provisos 

Subject 

Fine which may be imposed 

Daily fine 
which may be 
imposed 

1 

2 

3 

4 


Section 240, sub-sec- 
tion (1), clause (b). 


Section 241, sub-sec- 
tion (i). 


Section 242 

Section 243 

Section 244, sub-sec- 
tion (2). 

Section 250 

Section 251, sub-sec- 
tion (2). 


Section 252, sub-sec- 
tion (2), clause (a). 


Section 253 • 


Section 254 (>)> («) 
or (tit). 


Sectioh*2J5, sub-sec- 
tion (1), 

Section 258, sub-sec- 
tion (1). 

Section 258,' sub-sec- 
tion (3). 


Requisition to remove wall. Fifty rupees 
hoarding, etc., over any 
house-gully or any public 
street, dram, etc. 

Requisition on owner or One hundred rupees 
occupier of building to 
remove or alter verandah, 
platform or other struc- 
ture or fixture attached to 
building. 

Requisition on owner of Fifty rupees 
land to trim or cut hedges 
or trees. 

Requisition on owner of any One hundred rupees 
pool, ditch, tank, etc., 
which causes damage. 

Unlawfully destroying, pul- Twety rupees, 
ling down, etc., name of 
public street or number 
of house 

Direction to deposit sewage. Ten rupees, 
etc., in specified places 
and at specified times. 

Placing rubbish or offensive Ten rupees, 
matter on a public street, 
except at specified times 
and In proper receptacles. 

Direction to collect and re- Ten rupees, 
move rubbish and offensive 
matter accumulating on 
business premises or on 
premises on which build- 
ing work is going on. 

Keeping dirt, dung, etc., in Ten rupees, 
or about a house, except 
in proper receptacle. 

Throwing, any rubbish. Ten rupees, 
offensive matter, etc., upon 
any street or in any sewer 
or drain improper use 
of drain or discharge of 
water, steam, etc. 

Failure to dispose of dead Twenty-five rupees, 
bodies of animals. 

Provision for privy and uri- Fifty rupees, 
nal for building. 

Provision for privy, urinal Fifty rupees, 
and bathing accommo- 
dation for building. 


Ten rupees. 


Ten rupees. 


Ten rupee*. 


Ten rupee*. 


S-ction 258, sub-seo- Direction to provide for One hundred rupees, 
tlon (4). septic tank latrine. 



Smc. 3 ( 1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29 , 196 I/SRAVANA 7 , 1883 


ii 55 


Sections, sub- 
jections, clauses or 
provisos 

Subject 

Fine which may be imposed Daily fine 

which may 
be mposed 

1 

2 

3 4 


Section 2 $ 9 , sub-sec- Requisition on owner of pre- 
tion (i). miscs to provide or alter 

privy or urinal or bath- 
ing or washing place for 
or in premises. 


Section 259 ) sub- Requisition on owner of 
section (2). premises to provide septic 

tank latrine for or in pre- 
mises. 


Section 260 . Construction, renewal, etc. , 

of house-drain, cess-pool, 
etc., and appurtenances 
thereof in contravention 
of rules. 


Section 261 . . Con struction or keeping of 

house-drain, service- 
privy, urinal or cess- 
pool within fifty feet of 
tank, etc. 

Section 263, sub-sec- Disobeyin g ary lawful order 
tion (1), clauses or requisition to repair, 
(a), (A) and (c). alter, remove, shut off, or 

provide latrine, etc. 


Section 263, sub- Disobeying lawful order or 
section (1), clause requisition to provide 

(f). septic tank latrine. 

Section 264, sub- Failure to provide house- 
aection (1). gully. 


Section 266 


Section 272 


Section 273 


Section 275 


Failure or refusal to keep 
latrine, urinal, etc., in 
proper condition. 

Unlawfully connecting 
house-drain with muni- 
cipal drain. 

Unlawful construction, al- 
teration, etc., of drains 
leading to municipal se- 
wers, etc. 

Requisition on owner of 
premises to make house- 
drain and provide ap- 
pliances" or fittings or to 
remove house-drain, etc. 


Section 276 . . Requisition on orwer of 

premises to make house- 
drain communicating 
with closed cess-pool. 

Section 290 . • Requisition on owner or 

occupier to lay down se- 
parate service-pipes for 
separate holdings. 


Section 298, sub-sec- Fraud in respect of meter, 
tion (1). 


Fifty rupees 

One hundred rupees 

One hundred rupees 

Fifty rupees . 

Fifty rupees 

One hundred rupees 

Fifty rupees ■ 

Fifty rupees. . 

One hundred rupees 

One hundred rupees 

Fifty rupees ■ 

Fifty rupees . 

One hundred rupees . 

One hundred rupoej. 


• Five rupees. 

. Fifty rupees. 

. Ten rupees 

. Ten rupees. 

. Ten rupees. 

. Ten rupees. 

. Ten rupees. 

. Ten rupees. 

. Ten rupees. 

. Ten rupees. 

. Five rupees 

Five rupees. 

. Ten rupees. 



1156 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, l'lGl/SRAVANA 7, J&*3 [Purr IS 


Sections, sub- 
sections, clauses or 

Subject i 

Fine which may be imposed 

Daily fine 
which ijwfjr 

provisos 



be imposed 

t 

2 

3 

4 


Section 299 , . Injuring meter or fittings 

thereof. 


Section 301, sub-sec- 
tion (3). 


Improper use of water sup- 
plied for domestic pur- 
poses. 


Section 303, sub-seC- Requisition to alter or add 
tion (4). to work, pipe or fitting 

unsuitable for the pur- 
poses. 

Section 305 . (t) Taking water out of 

municipal limits, with- 
out authorization. 

(»i) Negligently allowing 
water to be wasted. 

(ill) Unlawfully drawing off 
or diverting water from 
waterworks. 


Section 307 . . Commencing work for 

supply of water to any 
premises without sending 
estimate and specification. 

Section 315, sub-sec- Prohibition or erection of 
tion (2). building without per- 

mission or so as to deprive 
another building of pro- 
per means of access. 

Section 320 . . Sending written notice after 

completion of erection of 
a new building. 


One hundred rupees. 
Ten rupees 

Fifty rupees . 

One hundred rupees 

Twenty rupees 
Five hundred rupees . 

One hundred rupees * 

Two hundred rupees 

Fifty rupees 


Five rupee*. 


Five rupee*.. 


Fifty rupees. 


Ten ru pee*. 


Fifty rupees. 


Section 321, sub-sec- 
tion (2). 


Requisition on owner to Two hundred and fifty ru- 
make sptcified alterations. pecs in the case of am a - 

so.nry building and twen- 
ty-five rupees in the case 
of a hut. 


Twenty-five 
rupees in the 
case of * 
masonry 
building and 
five rupee* in 
the case of 
a hut. 


Section 323, sub-sec- Constructing the roofs or Twenty-five rupees . 
tion (1). external wall of a house 

with inflammable ma 
terials without permis- 
sion. 


Section 323, sub-sec- Requisition on owner of a Fifty-rupees 
tion (2). building to remove roof 

or external wall of in- 
flammable materials. 


Section 333, sub-sec- Requisition to discontinue Two hundred rupees 
tion (1). the erection of a new 

building or other unlaw- 
ful work. 


Section 337 . . Requisition on owners or Two hundred rupees 

occupiers to carry out in 
bustee hut-improvements 
specified in the schedule 
annexed to the report. 


Five rupees. 


Five rupees,. 


Twenty-five 

rupees. 


Twety-fivcv 

rupees. 



$1C. S(i>] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


1157 


Sections, ^sub- 
sections, clauses 
or provisos., 


Subject 


Pine which may be imposed 


Daily line 
which may 
bo imposed 


Section 341, sub-sec- 
tion (2). 


Section 342 . 


Section 343, sub-sec- 
tion (2). 


Section 344, sub-sec- 
tion ( 6 ). 


Section 345, sub-sec- 
tion (4), 


Section 345,sub-sec- 
tion (5). 


Section 348 . 


Section 349 . 


Section 350 . 


Section 353 . 


Failure to keep open private Fifty rupees 
street in bustee for sca- 
venging or other pur- 
poses and for use of 
tenants. 


One hundred rupees . 


Section 346, sub-sec- 
tion (1). 

Section 347 


Failure to keep open bath - Fifty rupees 
Ingand privy accommo- 
dation in bustee for use 
of tenants. 

Requisition on owner to Two hundred 
maintair in proper order 
street, drains, etc., in 
bustee according to stan- 
dard plan. 

Requisition on owner to One hundred 1 
carry out improvements 
before rc-crecting huts. 

Erection of hut or portion of Fifty rupees 
hut withi^ aligrmert 
prescribed for private 
streets in bustee or 
other area. 

Failure to keep open private Fifty rupees 
street in bustee for sca- 
venging or other pur- 
poses and <"or use of te- 
nants. 

Requisition on owners or Fifty rupees 
occupiers to remove huts. 


One hundred rupees 


Requisition on person erect - 
ing masonry building in 
bustee to leave space of 
fifteen feet front centre 
line of street. 


Direction to set apart tanks. Fifty rupees 
wtills, etc., for drinking, 
culinary, bathing and 
washing purposes. 

Requisition to cleanse or Fifty rupees 
protect tank, well, etc., 
used for drinking or 
culinary purposes. 

Prohibition of use of pollut- Fifty rupees 
ed water for drinking or 
culinary purposes. 

Requisition to take measures Fifty rupees 
to prevent the use of pol- 
luted water. 


Section 356, sub -sec- 'Requisition to clean sc, fill 
tion (i). up or de-water well, pool, 

ditch, tank, pond or 
marshy groun d or to drain 
off or remove waste or 
stagnant -water. 


One hundred rupees 


Ten rupees. 


Ten rupees. 


Two hundred rupees . Twenty-rupees. 


Ten rupees. 


Ten rupees. 


Ten rupees. 
Twenty rupees 


Five rupees. 


Five rupees. 


Five rupees. 


Ten rupees. 


jjjg THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, T i!Ol/SRAVANA 7 '883 [Pj*et H 


Sections, sub- 
sections, clauses 
or provisos 


Subject 


Fine which may beimposed Daily fine 

which may be 
imposed 


Section 357, sub-sec- Making excavation or digg- 

tion (i) ing cess-pool, tank, pond, 

well, or pit. 

Section 3<7,sub-sec- Requisitlo i to fill up exca- 

tlon (i). vation, cess-pool, tank, 

etc., unlawfully made. 

Section 359, sub-sec- Requisition to secure or 

tion (t; protect dangerous well, 

tank or excavation. 

Section 360 . ■ Prohibition of cultivation of 

crops, use of manure or 
method of irrigation 
i n jurlous to health and the 
growth of water-hyacinth 
andnoxious weeds. 

Section 362 . Requisition on owner or oc- 

cupier to lime-wash or 
otherwise cleanse buil- 
ding. 

Section 363 . . Requisition on owner or oc- 

cupier to clear noxious 
vegetation and to 
improve bad drainage. 

Section 364, sub-sec- Requisition on owner ox oc- 
tlon(t). cupler to take down, re- 

pair or secure wall or 
building or fixture in a 
ruinous state, etc. 

Section 364, sub-sec- Requisition on inmate to ] 
tion (2). vacate building in ruinous 

state, etc. 

Section 36J, sub-sec- Requisition on owners or 
tion (1). occupiers to execute works 

or take measures with res- 
pect to buildings or block 
of buildings in order to 
prevent risk of disease. 


Section 366, sub -sec- Using building declared unfit 
tion (3). fox human habitation. 

Section 367, sub-sec- Requisition on owner or oc- 
tion (2). cupier to demolish or ex- 

ecute work on building 
declared unfit for human 
habitation. 

Section 368, sub-sec- Requisition on owner to 
tion (1) abate overcrowding in 

building or room. 

Section 368, sub-sec- Requisition on inmate to 
tion (4). vacate overcrowded build- 

ing or room. 


One hundred rupees. 


Fifty rupees . . . . Five rupees- 


One hundred rupees . Ten rupee*. 


Fifty rupees. ■ . . Five rupee*.. 


Twenty-five rupees . Five rupees. 


One hundred rupees . Ten rupees. 


Two hundred and fifty One hundred 
rupees. rupees. 


One hundred rupees . Fifty rupee*. 


Five hundred rupees in the One hundred 
case of a masonry building rupees in the 

or block of masonry build- case of a 
ings and one hundred masonry* 
rupees in the case of a hut building or 
or block of huts. block of 

masonry 
buildings and 
twenty rupee* 
in the case of 
a hut or block 
of huts. 

Two hundred and fifty rupees Fifty rupees. 

Two hundred and fifty rupees Fifty rupee*. 


Twenty-five rupees . . Five rupees. 


Twenty-five rupee 1 ’. . Five'rupcca. 




Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7. 1883 


Sections, sub- 
sections, clauses 

Subject 

Daily fine 

Fine which may be imposed which may, be 

or provisions 

1 

2 

imposed 

3 4 


Section 370, sub-sec- Using any place for any of One hundred rupees . 
tion (i), the purposes specified in 

section 370 without licen- 
se. 

Section 370, sub-sec- Breach of condition of One hundred rupees 
tion (3). license under section 370. 

Section 372, sub-sec- Keeping horses and cattle for Fifty rupees 
tion (r). trade or business without 

license. 

Section 372, sub-sec- Breach of condition of license Fifty rupees 
tion (2). issued under section 372. 

Section 373, sub-sec- Keeping horses and cattle Fifty rupees 
tion (1). except in public stables 

Section 373, sub-sec- Breach of condition of li- Fifty rupees 
tion (4). cense issued under section 

373- 

Section 374 sub-sec- Keeping pigs, sheep, etc.. Fifty rupees 
tion (1). without license. 

Section 374, sub-sec- Breach of condition of Fifty rupees. . 
tion (2). ] , j license issued under sec- 

tion 374. 

Section 377 Information of existence of Fifty rupees. 

infectious diesease in any 
building. 

Section 378, sub-sec- Removal to hospital of One hundred rupees, 
tion (3). ; patient suffering from in- 

fectious or contagious 
disease. 

Section 379, sub-sec- Requisition on occurpier to Fifty rupees 
tion (1), vacate building or part 

thereof to admit of disin- 
fection. 

Section 381 , . . Letting infected building . Five hundred rupees. 

Section 382, sub-sec- Direction to disinfect cloth- Fifty rupees 
tion (2), clause (b) ing, bedding or other arti- 
cles likely to retain infec- 
tion. 

Section 38,3 Washing infected articles at Fifty rupees, 

unauthorised places. 

Section 384 Infected person making, sell- Fifty rupees. 

ing or touching any article 
of food or medicine or 
drug or taking part in 
business of washing clothes 
or selling clothc9. 

Section 385, sub-sec- Giving, lending, etc., in fected Fifty rupees, 
tion (l). article. 

Section 386, Sub-Sec- Infected person exposing Fifty rupees, 
tion (1). himself in a public place or 

allowing himself to be car- 
ried in public conveyance, 
etc,, and person in charge 


Ten rupees. 

Ten rupees. 
Five rupees. 

Five rupees. 
Five rupees. 
Five rupees. 

Five rupees. 
Five rupees. 


Ten rupees.! 

Five rupees. 




ii6o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29 , 1961 /SRAVANA 7 , 1888 


[Paw n 


Section, sub- 


Fine which may be imposed' Daily fine 

lections, clauses 

Subject 

which may be 

or provisos' 


imposed 

I 

2 

3 4 


Section 387, sub-sec- 
tion (1). 


Section 387, sub-sec- 
tion (4). 

Section 388, sub-sec- 
tion (2). 


Section 390, sub- sec- 
tion (f). 


Section 391, sub-sec- 
tion (ij. 


Section 398, sub-sec- 
tion (i). 

Section 400 


Section 404, sub-sec- 
tion (1). 

Section 403, sub-sec- 
tion (i).j 


Section 406 


Section 408 


Section 409 


of an infected person, 
dead body or infected arti- 
cle permitting the same 
to be so exposed or carried 
as the case may be. 

Failure to take public con- One hundred rupees, 
veyance to appointed place 
for disinfection. 

Using infected public convey- One hundred rupees, 
ance. 

Carrying Infected person. One hundred rupees, 
dead bodies, etc., in other 
than special conveyance 
without permission. 

Direction to close or prohi- Two hundred and fifty Twenty-five 

bition against attending rupees. rupees, 

market, sarai, etc., to 
prevent spread of infection 

Direction to close school or Two hundred and fifty Twenty-five 
to exclude scholars from rupees. rupees, 

attendance to prevent 
spread of infection. 

Direction to regulate opera- One hundred rupees, 
tionslncaseof fire. 

Prohibition of stacking or One hundred rupees . , Ten rupees, 

collecting hay, wood, etc., 
within certain limits. 


Selling in municipal market Twenty-five rupees, 
without permission. 

( 1 ) Establishing new private One thousand rupees, 
market without sanction. 

(it) Keeping open any private Two hundred rupees 
market or permitting any 
placfrt o be used as a private 
market. 

Using as market a place One hundred rupees, 
which Magistrate has dir- 
ected to be closed. 

Slaughtering animal at place Fifty rupees, 
other than a municipal or 
licensed slaughter-house. 

Requisition to pave, drain, Fifty rupees 
etc., or otherwise improve 
private market. 


Twenty-five 

rupees. 


Twenty 

rupees. 


Ten rupees. 


Section 410, sub-sec- Requisition on owner or Fifty rupees . . . Ten rupees, 

tlons (1) and (2). occupier of private market 
to lay out, alter, etc., ap- 
proaches, roads, etc., and 
to provide conveniences 
for, and maintain, the 
same. 




Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29. 1961/SRAVANA 7. 1883 


Il6l 


Sections, sub- 


Daily fine 

sections, clauses 

Subject 

Fine which may be imposed which may be 

or provisos 


imposed 

1 

2 

3 4 


Section 41 1, sub -see- Requisition on tenant or Fifty rupees 
tion (2), agent to remove himself 

from market or slaughter- 
house. 

Section 414A Holding a fair or me la with- Two hundred rupees 

out or otherwise than in 
conformity with the terms 
of a license. 

Section 414B . Prohibition of prostitution . Five hundred rupees . 

Section 415, sub-sec- Using false or incorrect Fifty rupees 
tion(i). weight or measure or ins- 

trument for weighing. 

Section 415, sub-sec- Failuretoproduceforinspec- Fifty rupees, 
tion (3). tion irstruments for weigh- 

ing, weights and measures. 

Section 418, sub-sec- Carrying on trade of butcher One hundred rupees . 
tion (1), or selling animals meat 

or fish outside market 
without license. 

Section 420, sub-sec- Carrying on trade of dairy- One hundred rupees, 
tion (1), man, milkman, baker, etc., 

without license. 


Ten rupees. 


Twenty-five 

rupees. 


Five rupees. 


T en rupe 


Ten rupees. 


Section 421, sub-sec- Sale, etc., of diseased living Two hundred and fifty rupees 
tion (r) things or unwholesome for a first offence and one 

article intended for hu- thousand rupees for any 
man food. subsequent offence. 

Section 422 . Prohibition of keeping bread- Fifty rupees. 

stuffs, etc., for sale except 
in properly covered recep- 
tacles. 


Section 428, sub -sec- 
tion (2). 


Section 435 
Section 436 


Section 43 8, sub- 
section (1). 


Section 438, sub-sec- 
tion (2). 

Section 439, sub-sec- 
tion (1) 


Section 441, sub-sec- 
tIon(2). 


Removing, interfering or Two hundred rupees, 
tampering with living 
thing, food, drug, etc., 
seized and left in custody. 


One hundred rupees. 


Registration of place used as 
A burial orburning ground , 

Formation orusingplace as Five hundred rupees, 
burial or burning ground 
without permission. 

Burning or burying corpse One hundred rupees, 
except in a place provided 
for the purpose without 
permission. 


Exhuming cropse in certain 
cases wihtout permission. 

Direction to close burial or 
burning ground injurious 
to health or offensive 
to neighbourhood. 

Dispoal of dead bodies of 
persons dying from infec- 
tious disease . 


Five hundred rupees. 


Five hundred rupees. . Fifty rupt 


One hundred rupees. 



I 162 THF GA/ETTF OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1%1/SRAVANA 7, 1683 [Part IE 


Sections, sub- 
sections, clauses 
or provisos 
1 


Daily line 

Subject Fine which may be impobed which may 

be imposed 

3 34 


Section 443, sub-scc- 
tion (1). 


Selling fuel or other article Fifty lupces 
for cremation Without 
license. 


Section 443, sub-sec- 
tion (2). 


Selling articles for cremation Fifty rupees, 
at a higher rate than the 
rate fixed. 


Section 447 . Notice of birth or death by Fifty rupees. 

medical officer in charge of 
hospital. 


Section 453, sub-sec- 
tion (2). 


Direction for removal of 
nuisance. 


Section 461 


Failure to surrender license 


Five hundied rupees 


One hundred rupees. 


Fifty rupees- 
Ten rupc*s- 


Section 467 

* 


Production of license fcirim- 
pection. 

* * 


Fifty rupees 

• * 


. Ten rupees- 

* • 


Section 513 


Obstructing Commissioners 
Chairman, Vice-Chairman, 
etc., in making any entry, 
search, etc., or carrying on 
work under this Act. 


Two hundred rupees for a 
first offence and five hun- 
derd rupees for a subse- 
quent offence. 


601. Pine for unlawfully commencing, carrying on or completing building 
work. — If the erection of any new building — 

(a) Is commenced without obtaining the written permission of the Commis- 

sioners, or 

(b) Is carried on or completed otherwise than in accordance with the parti- 

culars on which such permission was based, or 

(c) is carried on or completed in breach of any provision contained" in this 

Act or in any rules or by-laws made thereunder, or of any direction 
or requisition lawfully given or made under this Act or such rules or 
by-laws, or 

if any alteration of, or addition to, any building or any other work made or don© 
for any purpose in, to or upon any building is commenced, carried on or completed 
in breach of section 326 , 

the owner of the building shall be liable to fine, which may extend in the case 
of a masonry building to five hundred rupees and in the case of a hut to fifty 
rupees, and to further fine, which may extend In the case of a masonry building 
to one hundred rupees and in the case of a hut to ten rupees for each day during 
which the offence is continued after the first day. 

502. Penalty for obstructing contractor or removing mark. — Any person who, 
In contravention of section 541 , obstructs or molests any person with whom the 
Commissioners have entered into a contract, or, In contravention of section 642 , 
removes any mark, shall be punished with fine which may extend to two hundred 
rupees, or with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two months. 

603. Power to impose penalties for breach of rules or by-laws.— -In making any 

rule or by-law the Commissioners may, with the sanction of the State Government, 
or in the case of any rule, model rule or by-law the State Government may direct 
that the breach thereof shall be punishable with a fine which may extend to fifty 
rupees and, when the breach 1 b a continuing one, with a further fine not exceeding 
five rupees for every day after the date of the first conviction during which the 
offender is proved to have persisted in the offence.^ 

B04. Penalty on officers, etc., taking unauthorised fees. — If any person employed! 
under this Act (not being a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the 
Indian Penal Code) Act XLV of i 860 , shall accept or obtain or agree to accept or 



Sec, 3(i)] THE GAZETTE Ol INDIA; )LH.Y 29. 1%]/SRAVANA 7. 1883 H 63 ' 


attempt to obtain, from any person, for himself or for any other person, any 
gratification whatever other than legal remuneration, as a reward for doing or 
forbearing to do any official act, or for showing or forbearing to show in the 
exercise of his official functions favour or disfavour to any person, or for rendering, 
or attempting to render, any service or disservice to any person with the Commis- 
sioners or with any public servant of with any Government in the discharge of his 
official duties, he shall be punished with imprisonment, for a term which may 
extend to three years, or with a fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or 
with both. 


Chapter XXV, — Procedure 
Rules and by-laws 

505. Previous publication of rules made by Government, — (1) The power of the 
State Government to make rules under this Act Is subject to the condition of the 
rules being made after previous publication. 

(2) Any rule made by the State Government may be general for all municipali- 
ties or for all municipalities not expressly excepted from its operation or may be 
special for the whole or any part of any one or more than one municipality bb the 
State Government may direct. 

506. Confirmation and publication of rules and by-laws made by the Commis- 
sioners. — (1) Rules and by-laws made by the Commissioners under this Act shall 
not take effect unless and until they have been submitted to, and confirmed by, the 
State Government. 

(2) Such rules and by-laws shall not be confirmed — 

(i) unless one month at least before the making of the application notice of 
the intention to apply for confirmation has been given in one or more 
of the local newspapers circulated within the municipality to which 
such rules or by-laws relate, or if there be no such newspapers, then 
in such manner as the Commissioners may direct, and 
(if) unless for one month at least before such application a copy of the pro- 
posed rules or by-laws has been kept at the office of the Commis- 
sioners, and has been open during office hours thereat to the Inspection 
of the inhabitants of the municipality to which such rules or by-laws 
relate, without fee. 

(3) The Commissioners shall, on the application of any Inhabitant of the 
municipality, furnish him with a copy of such proposed rules or by-laws, on pay- 
ment of four annas for every hundred wordB contained In the copy. 

(4) The State Government may rescind any rule or by-law which it has con- 
firmed, and thereupon the rule or by-law shall cease to have effect. 

507. Publication of rules, by-laws, orders and notices. — Every rule, by-law, order, 
public notice or other document directed to be published under this Act shall be 
written in or translated into, Bengali and in such other language or languages 
commonly used in the district as may be decided by the Commissioners at a meeting 
and deposited in the office of the Commissioners, and copies thereof shall be posted 
up In a conspicuous position at such office, and in such other public places as the' 
Commissioners may direct; 

and a public proclamation shall be made throughout the municipality by beat 
of drum, notifying that such copy has been so posted up, and that the original is 
open to Inspection In the office of the Commissioners. 

Signature and service of notices, etc. 

508. Signature of notices, etc., may be stamped, — (1) Every license, written 
permission, notice, bill, summons or other document which is required by this Act 
or by any rule or by-law made thereunder to bear the signature of the Chairman; 
Vice-Chairman or any other municipal officer, shall be deemed to be properly 
signed if It bears a facsimile of the signature of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman or 
such municipal officer stamped thereupon, 

(2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to apply to a cheque drawn upon 
the Municipal Fund, 

509. Notices, etc,, by whom to be served or issued. — All notices, bills, summonses 
and other documents required by this Act or by any rule or by-law made there- 
under to be served upon, or issued to, any person, shall be so served or Issued by 



1164 THE GAZETTE OF INULA : JULY 29. 196I/SRAVANA 7, 1885 [Part II 


municipal officers or servants or by other persons authorized by the Commissioners 
at a meeting In this behalf. 

310. Service how to be effected on owner or occupier of premises. — When any 

notice, bill, summons or other document Is required by this Act or by any rule 
■or by-law made thereunder to be served upon or issued to, any person as owner 
Or occupier ol any land or building, it shall not be necessary to name the owner 
or occupier In the document and the service or Issue thereof shall be effected— 

(a) by giving or tendering such document to the owner or occupier: 

Provided that if there be more than one owner or occupier, and it is not in 

the opinion of the Commissioners practicable to serve the docu- 
ment on every one of them the Commissioners may serve the docu- 
ment on any one or more of them as they may think fit; or 

(b) if the owner or occupier Is not found, by giving or tendering such 

document or by sending It by post to any adult male member of the 
family, or to a servant in the employ, of the owner or occupier or of 
any one of the owners or occupiers; and 

(c) both In the cases mentioned in clauses (a) and (b) by affixing such 

notice, bill, summons, or other document on some conspicuous part of 
the land or building (if any) or other thing to which the document 
relates. 

311. Service how to be effected otherwise than on owner or occupier of premises. — 

"When any notice, bill, summons or other document is required by this Act or by 
any rule or by-law made thereunder to be served upon or issued to any person 
otherwise than as owner or occupier of any land or building, such service or issue 
-shall be effected — 

(a) by giving or tendering such document to such person; or 

(b) If such person Is not found, by leaving such document at his last known 

place of abode or business in the municipality or by giving or tender- 
ing the same or by sending it by post to any adult male member of his 
family or adult male servant in his employ; or 

(c) if such person does not reside in the municipality and his address else- 

where is known to the Commissioners, by forwarding such document 
to him by post in a cover bearing the said address; or 

(d) If none of the means referred to In clauses (a), (b) or (c) be available, 

by affixing such notice, bill, summons or other document on some 
conspicuous part of the land or building (If any) or other thing to 
which the document relates. 

Powers of entry and inspection 

512. Power of entry to inspect, survey or execute work— The Chairman, Vice- 
Chairman, Executive Officer, Health Officer, Engineer or Sanitary Inspector, or any 
■other person authorized by the Commissioners In this behalf, may enter into or on 
any building or land with or without assistants or workman in order to make any 
inquiry, Inspection, test, examination, survey, measurement or valuation or for the 
purpose of lawfully placing or removing pipes or meters, or to execute any other 
work which Is authorized by, the provisions of this Act or of any rule, by-law or 
order made thereunder, or which It is necessary for any of the purposes of this 
Act or In pursuance of any of the said provisions, to make or execute: 

.'Provided that— 

(a) except when it Is in this Act or in any rule or by-law made thereunder 

otherwise expressly provided, no such entry shall be made between 
sunset and sunrise; 

(b) except when it Is otherwise expressly provided as aforesaid, no dwelling 

house, and no part of a public building used as a dwelling place, shall 
be so entered without the consent of the occupier thereof, unless the 
said occupier has received at least twelve hours’ previous notice of 
the Intention to make such entry; 

■(c) reasonable notice shall be given in every case even when any premises 
may otherwise be entered without notice, to enable the Inmates of any 
apartment appropriated to women to remove to some part of the 
premises where their privacy may be preserved; 



Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 196I/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


Il65 


(d) due regard shall be paid, so far as may be compatible with the exigen- 
cies of the purpose of the entry, to the social and religious usages of 
the occupants of the premises. 

513. Prohibition of obstructing entry, — No person shall, in any way obstruct the- 
Commissioners, Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Executive Officer, Health Officer, Sani- 
tary Inspector or any municipal officer or servant, or any other person authorized 
by the Commissioners at a meeting or otherwise, in making any entry, inspection 
or search under this Act, or any person accompanying them at their request or 
acting under their orders for the purpose of such entry or acting under their orders 
In carrying out any work, under the provision of this Act, or under any rule or 
by-law made thereunder for the carrying out of such work. 

Enforcement 0 } requisitions 

514. Procedure when owners or occupiers required to execute works by Com- 
missioners. — (1) Whenever it is provided in this Act or in any rule or by-law made- 
thereunder that the Commissioners or the Commissioners at a meeting may require- 
the owners or the occupiers, or the owners and occupiers of any land or building, 
to execute any work or to do anything within a specified time, such requisition' 
shall be made, as fur as possible, by a notice to be served on every owner or occu- 
pier who Is required to execute such work or to do such thing: but, if there is any 
doubt as to the persons who are owners or occupiers, such requisition may be made 
by a notification to be posted up on or near the spot at which the work is required 
to be executed or the thing done, requiring the owners or the occupiers, 
or the owners and occupiers, of any land or building, to execute such work or to- 
do such thing within a specified time; and in such notification it shall not be neces- 
sary to name the owners and occupiers, If no time is specified in this Act or in- 
any rule or by-law made thereunder for the execution of such work or the doing 
of such thing the notice shall prescribe a reasonable period for carrying the re- 
quisition into effect, and shall be served as provided in this sub-section. 

(2) Every requisition provided in sub-section (1), other than a requisition under 
section 240 or section 241, or under the provisions of Chapter XXI shall give notice 
to the persons to whom it is addressed that, if they fail to comply with the re- 
quisition or to prefer an objection against such requisition as provided in section 
515, the Commissioners will enter upon the land or building and cause the required' 
work to be executed, or the required thing to be done; and that In such case the- 
expenses incurred thereby will be recovered from the persons who are required 
in such requisition to execute such work or do such thing, 

515. Objection by persons required to execute any work, — A person who Is- 
required by a requisition as provided in section 514, other than a requisition under 
section 240 or section 241, or under the provisions of Chapter XXI to execute any 
work or to do anything may, instead of executing the work or doing the thing 
required prefer an objection in writing to the Commissioners against such requisi- 
tion within five days of the service of the notice or posting up of the notification, 
containing the requisition; or if the time within which he is required to comply 
with the requisition be less than five days, then within such less time, 

Except as provided in section 516, such objection shall be heard and deposed of 
by the Chairman, Vice-Chairman or Executive Officer, 

516. Procedure if person objecting alleges that work will cost more than three 
hundred rupees.— If the objection alleges that the cost of executing the work or 
of doing the thing required will exceed three hundred rupees, such objection shall 
be heard and disposed of by the Commissioners at a meeting; unless the Chairman, 
Vice-Chairman or Executive Officer certifies that such cost will not exceed three 
hundred rupees. In which case the objection shall be heard and disposed of by the- 
Chairman, Vice-Chairman or Executive Officer: 

Provided that in any case in which the Chairman, Vice-Chairman or Executive 
Officer has certified his opinion as aforesaid, and the objection has in consequence 
thereof been heard and disposed of by the Chairman, Vice-Chairman or Executive 
Officer the person making the objection may, if the requisition made upon him is 
not withdrawn on the hearing of his objection, pay in the said sum of three hundred 
rupees to the Commissioners as the cost of executing the work or doing the thing 
required; whereupon such person shall be relieved of all further liability and' 
obligation in respect of executing the work or doing the tiring required and in- 
respect of paying the expenses thereof; and the Commissioners themselves shall' 
execute such work, or do such thing, and shall exercise all powers necessary therefor- 



.1166 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 50, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


[Part II 


517. Orders after hearing objection. — The Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Executive 
Officer or the Commissioners at a meeting, as the case may be, shall after hearing 
the objection and making any inquiry which may be deemed necessary, record an 
order withdrawing, modifying or making absolute the requisition agaipst which 
the objection is preferred; and, if such order does not withdraw the requisition, 
it shall specify the time within which the requisition shall be carried out, which 
shall not be less than the shortest time which might have been mentioned under 
this Act in the original requisition. 

518. Order to be explained orally. — If the person making such objection Is 
.present at the office of the Commissioners, the said order shall be explained to him 
orally; and If such order cannot be so explained, notice of such o-der shall be ser- 
ved as provided In section 910 or section 511, as the case may be, on me persons 
making the objection; and such explanation of. or service of. the notice of the said 
order shall be deemed to be a requisition duly made under this Act to execute the 
work or do the thing required. 

519. Power of Commissioners on failure Of persona to execute work. — (1) If 

the person required to execute the work or to do the thing fails within the time 
■specified in any requisition provided in sub-section (1) of section 514 other than a 
requisition under section 240 or section 241, or a requisition under Chapter XXI 
do begin to execute such work or to do such thing, and thereafter diligently to con- 
tinue the same to the satisfaction of the Commissioners, until it is completed, the 
Commissioners or any person authorized by them in this behalf, may, after giving 
forty-eight hours’ notice of their intention by a notification to be posted up cn or 
near the spot, enter upon the land or building and perform all necessary acts for 
the execution of the work or doing of the thing required; and the expenses thereby 
incurred shall be paid to the Commissioners by the owners or by the occupiers, if 
such requisition was addressed to the owners or to the occupiers respectively and 
by the owners and the occupiers, if such requisition was addressed to the owners 
and the occupiers. 

(2) The Commissioners may take any measure, execute any work or cause 
anything to be done under this section or under the provisions of Chapter XXI, 
whether or not the person who has failed to comply with the requisition' is liable 
to punishment, or has been prosecuted or sentenced to any punishment, under this 
.Act or under any rule or by-laws made thereunder for such failure. 

520. Apportionment of expenses among owners.— -Whenever any expenses in- 
curred by the Commissioners are to be paid by the owners or by the occupiers of 
any land or building as provided in section 519, the Commissioners may, if there 
be more than one owner or more than one occupier, as the case may be, apportion 
the said expenses among such of the owners or among such of the occupiers as 
are known In such manner as to the Commissioners may seem fit. 

52 i. Apportionment among owners and occupiers.— Whenever any expenses 
Incurred by the Commissioners are to be paid by the owners and occupiers of any 
land or building as provided in section 519, the Commissioners may apportion the 
said expenses among the said owners and occupiers or such of them as are known 
In such manner as to the Commissioners may seem fit. 


522. Recovery by occupier of cost of works executed at his expense, — Whenever 

any work or any alterations and Improvements of which the Commissioners are 
authorized by this Act to require the execution are executed by the occupier on 
-the requisition of the Commissioners, or are executed by the Commissioners, and 
-the cost thereof is recovered from the occupier, the cost thereof may, if the Com- 
missioners certify that such cost ought to be borne by the owner, be deducted by 
such occupier from the next and following payments of his rent due or becoming 
due to such owner, or may be recovered by him in any court of competent Jurisdic- 
tion. 


1)2.2. Recovery of costs by Instalments or its remission in cases of poverty. — 
Whenever any works referred to in clause (cl of sub-section (1) of section 259 are 
executed by the Commissioners, the Commissioners at a meeting may order that 
-the costs thereof shall be recovered by instalments from the person liable to pay 
the same, or if it should appear to them that the said person is unable by reason 
of poverty to pay the same, may order the cost or any portion thereof to be paid 
out of the Municipal Fund. 



Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : JULY 29, 19G1/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


II67 


Recovery of costs and expenses 

524, Recovery of moneys due to the Commissioners— All costs, expenses, rents, 
'tolls, fees or other moneys due under this Act to the Commissioners of any muni- 
cipality may be recovered in the manner provided in sections 155 to 162 (both In- 
clusive) . 

525. Power to sell unclaimed holdings for money due, — (1) If money be due 
under this Act in respect of any holding from the owner thereof, on account of any 
tax, expenses or charges recoverable under this Act, and if the owner of such 
holding is unknown or the ownership thereof is disputed, the Commissioners may 
publish twice, at an interval of three months, a notification of sale of such holding 
and after the expiry of not less than three months from the date of the last publica- 
tion, unless the amount recoverable be paid, may sell such holding to the highest 
bidder, who shall, at the time of sale, deposit the full amount of the purchase- 
money. 

(2) After deducting the amount due to the Commissioners as aforesaid, the 
surplus sale-proceeds (if any) shall be credited to the Municipal Fund, and may 
be paid on demand to any person who establishes his right to the satisfaction of 
such Commissioners or In a court of competent jurisdiction. 

(3) Any person may pay the amount due at any time before the completion of 
-the sale, and may recover such amount by a suit in a court of competent Jurisdic- 
tion from any person beneficially interested in such property. 

(4) Where a holding has been sold under sub-section (1), any person, either 
owning such holding or having an interest therein by virtue of a title acquired 
before such sale, may within thirty days from the date of sale apply to the Com- 
missioners to have the sale set aside on his depositing with the Commissioners— 

(a) for payment to the purchaser, a sum equal to five per cent of the purchase 

money, and 

(b) for payment to the Commissioners, the amount specified in the notifica- 

tion of sale as that for the recovery of which the sale was ordered, 
less any amount which, since the date of such notification, has been 
received by the Commissioners. 

(5) Where an application along with the deposit mentioned has been made 
■under sub-section (4), the Commissioners at a meeting shall set aside the sale 
•and the amount paid by the auction purchaser together with five per cent thereof 
shall be refunded to him. 

(0) No sale shall be confirmed except after thirty days from the date of the 
■sale. 

520. Sale of materials. — (1) The materials of anything which shall have been 
pulled down or removed by the Commissioners under the provisions of sections 
237, 364, 306, 454 or sub-section (2) of section 514" may be sold by the Com- 
missioners, and the proceeds of such sale may be applied, so far as the same 
•will extend to the payment of the expenses incurred. 

(2) The surplus sale-proceeds (if any) shall be credited to the Municipal 
Fund, and may be paid on demand to any person who establishes his right to the 
satisfaction of the Commissioners or in a court of competent jurisdiction 

527. Power to enter upon possession of houses repaired. — If the Commissioners 
have under the provisions of this Act caused any repairs to be made to any 
building or other structure, and if such building or other structure be unoccu- 
pied, the Commissioners may enter upon possession of the same, and may retain 
possession thereof until the sum expended by them on the repairs be paid to 
them, 


528, Damage to municipal property how made good.— If through any act, 
neglect or default, on account whereof any person shall have incurred any penalty 
imposed by or under this Act, any damage to the property of the Commissioners 
shall have been committed by such person he shall be liable to make good such 
■damage as well as to pay such penalty and the amount of damage shall, in case 
•of dispute be determined by the Magistrate by whom the person incurring such 
penalty Is convicted, and on non-payment of such damage on demand the same 
shall he levied by distress, and such Magistrate shall issue his warrant accordingly. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, I96I/5RAVANA 7, 1883 


[Past II 


Il68 


529, Relief to agents and trustees. — (1) Whenever any person, by reason of 
his — 

(a) receiving the rent of immovable property as a receiver, agent or trustee, 

or 

(b) bejng as a receiver, agent or trustee the person who would receive 

the rent if the property were let to a tenant, 

would, under this Act or under any rule or by-law made thereunder, be bound 
to discharge any obligation imposed thereby on the owner of the property and 
for the discharge of which money is required, and such person has not in his 
hands funds belonging or payable to the owner sufficient for the purpose, he 
shall, within a reasonable time from the service upon him of any notice from the 
Commissioners in this behalf requiring him to discharge the said obligation, be 
bound to apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for leave to raise the necessary 
funds or for such other directions in relation thereto as the circumstances of 
the case may require. 

(2) Any receiver, agent or trustee who fails to apply to the court under sub- 
section (1) shall be deemed to be personally liable to discharge the said obliga- 
tion. 

Appeals 

529A. Appeals regarding electoral roll. — (1) Any person aggrieved by any 
entry in or omission from the final electoral roll published under section T 
within fifteen days from the date of publication of such roll appeal to the 
Magistrate and if on such appeal the District Magistrate or any other officer 
authorised by him to hear the appeal directs any modification or addition to be 
made in such roll, the roll shall be amended accordingly and the amendment so 
made shall be published in the same manner as the final roll. 

(2) No entry in or omission from a final electoral roll published under section 
21 shall be liable to be called in question otherwise than by such appeal. 

530. Appeals from certain orders of the Commissioners. — (1) Any person 

aggrieved by any prohibition, notice or order, made by the Commissioners under 
the powers conferred upon them by sub-section (3) of section 140, section 
sub-section (2) of section 218, sub-section (1) of section 219, sub-section (1) 
section 228, clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 240, sub-section (1) of section 
241, clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 252, clauses (li) and (ill) of section 
254, sub-section (1) of section 258, section 259, section 201, section 263, sub-section 
(1) of section 264, section 309, sub-section (2) of section 341. section 343, section 
348, section 349, section 356, section 357, sub-section (1) of section 304, section 
368, section 372, sub-section (2) of section 410, section 411, section 418, section 
420, section 423, section 620 and section 521 may, within thirty days, from the 
date of such prohibition, notice or order, appeal to the Commissioners, and every 
such appeal snail be heard and determined by not less than three Commissioners, 
who shall be appointed in that behalf by the Commissioners at a meeting, and no 
such prohibition, notice or order shall be liable to be called In question other- 
wise than by such appeal: 

Provided that the prohibition, notice or order shall not be modified or set aside 
or confirmed until the appellant and the Commissioners have had reasonable 
opportunity of being heard. 

(2) The appellate authority may, for sufficient cause, extend the period allowed 
by sub-section Cl) of this section for appeal. 

(3) Except on appeals from decisions or orders under sub-section (3) of 
section 140, section 372, section 418, section 420, section 423, section 520 and section 
521, the order of the appellate authority confirming, setting aside or modifying 
the prohibition, notice or order appealed from shall be final. 

531. Appeals from orders refusing license under this Act. — Any person 

aggrieved by an order refusing a license required under this Act may, notwith- 
standing anything contained elsewhere in this Act, within thirty days, appeal 
to the State Government whose decision shall be final and shall not be questioned 
in any court. 




n may, 
District 


Prosecutions 

532 . Powers of Commissioners to direct prosecution for public nuisance, etc. — 

The Commissioners may direct any prosecution for any public nuisance, and may 
order proceedings to be taken for the recovery of any penalties under this Act 
or rules or by-laws made thereunder and for the punishment of any persona 



Skc. j(i)j THE GAZETTE OF INDiA : jutY 29, 1961/SrAVAnA 7, IsaA 


Il69 


offending against the same, and may order the expenses of such prosecution or 
other proceedings to be paid out of the Municipal Fund, 

533 Sanction and limitation for prosecution under this Act. — No prosecution 
for an offence under this Act or any rule or by-law made in pursuance thereof 
shall be instituted without the order or consent of the Commissioners, and no 
such prosecution shall be instituted except within six months next after the 
commission of such offence, unless the offence is continuous in its nature, In 
which case a prosecution may be instituted within six months of the date oh 
which the commission or existence of the offence was first brought to the notice 
of the Chairman: 

Provided that the failure to take out any license under this Act shall be 
deemed to be a continuing offence until the expiration of the period for which such 
license is required to be taken out. 

533A. Police-officer to supply information to and co-operate with and assist 
Commissioners and municipal officers and servant*, — It shall be the duty Of 
every police-officer in a municipality— 

(a) to communicate without delay to the municipal Office ahy information 

which he receives of a design to commit or of the commission of any 
offence against this Act or any rule or by-law made thereunder, and 

(b) to co-operate with and assist the Commissioners or any municipal 

^officer or servant reasonably demanding Ihis aid for the ^Lawful 
exercise of any power vesting in the Commissioners Or such munici- 
pal officer or servant under this Act or any rule or by-law made 
thereunder, 

534. Police-officer to arrest persons refusing to give name and residence. — (1) 

When any person, in the presence of a police-officer commits, or is accused of 
committing, any offence, under this Act or any rule or by-law made in pursuance 
thereof and refuses, on demand of a police-officer, to give his name and residence 
or gives a name or residence which such officer has reason to believe to be false, 
he may he arrested by such officer in order that his name or residence may he 
ascertained; and he shall, within twenty-four hours from the arrest, be forwarded 
to the nearest Magistrate, unless before the expiration of that time his true 
name and residence are ascertained, in which case he shall be released on his 
executing a bond for his appearance before a Magistrate if so required. 

(2) Upon the recommendation of the Commissioners any servant of the Com- 
missioners in receipt of a salary of not less than twenty-five rupees permensem, 
when empowered m that behalf by a general or special order of the District 
Magistrate, may exercise the powers of a police-officer under this section. 

Suits 

535. Notice of suits against Commissioners. — (1) No suit or other legal pro- 
e >eding shall be brought against the Commissioners of any municipality or any 
of their agents, officers or servants, or any person acting under their direction, 
for any act purporting to be done under this Act or any rule or by-law made 
thereunder until the expiration of one month next after notice in writing has 
been delivered or left at the office of such Commissioners and also (if the suit 
or proceeding is intended to be brought against any officer or servant of the said 
Commissioners or any person acting under their direction) at the place of abode of 
the person against whom such suit or proceeding is intended to be brought, 
stating the cause of action and the name and place of abode of the person who 
intends to bring the suit or proceeding; 

and unless such notice be proved, the court shall find for the defendant. 

(2) Every such suit or proceeding shall be commenced within six months 
next after the accrual of the cause of action, and not afterwards, 

(3) When the suit or proceeding is for damages, tender of amends, if any, 
made before the suit 6r proceeding is brought may, In lieu of or in addition to 
any other plea, be pleaded. If the suit Or proceeding was commenced after 
the tender or is proceeded with after payment into court of any money in satis- 
faction of the plaintiffs claim, and the plaintiff does not recover more than 
the sum tendered or paid, the defendant shall be entitled to full costs of the suit 
or proceeding after the tender or payment. 

536. Contest of liability In civil courts. — (1) Any owner or occupier of land 
or of a building may contest his liability to pay any expenses or fees under 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29. 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 1883 [Part H 


I 17 O 


sections 519 to 521 or may contest the. amount which he has been called upon 
to pay in a civil court of competent jurisdiction: 

Provided that the fact of such action having been instituted shall be no bar 
to the recovery of the said amount, in the manner provided by section 524. 

(2) Where any damages or compensation other than compensation payable 
under section 98 are by this Act directed to be paid by the Commissioners the 
amount, and if necessary, the apportionment of the same, shall, in case of dispute, 
except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, be ascertained and determined 
by a civil court of competent jurisdiction. 

Chapter XXVI. — Savings. 

537. Savings.— No assessment list or other list, notice, bill or other such docu- 
ment specifying or purporting to specify, with reference to any tax, rate, toll, 
charge, rent or fee, any person, property, thing or circumstance shall be invalid 
by reason only of a mistake in the name, residence, place of business or occupation 
of the person or in the description of the property, thing or circumstance, or 
by reason of any mere clerical error or defect of form; and it shall be sufficient 
that the person, property, thing or circumstance is described sufficiently for the 
purpose of identification, and it shall not be necessary to name the owner or 
occupier of any property liable in respect of a tax. 

538. Diirtress or sal© not unlawful for want of form, — No distress or sale made 
under this Act shall be deemed unlawful nor shall any person making the same 
be deemed a trespasser on account of any error, defect or want of form in the 
bill, notice, summons, warrant of distress, Inventory or other proceeding relating 
thereto, nor shall such person be deemed a trespasser from the commencement 
on account of any irregularity afterwards committed by him, but all persons 
aggreived by such irregularity may recover full satisfaction for any special 
damage sustained by them in any court of competent jurisdiction, subject to the 
provisions of section 635. 

539. Who to he deemed owner or occupier where there are gradations of 
owners or occupiers. — Whenever any right is conferred or duty imposed by or 
under thi3. Act, or by any rule or by-law made thereunder on the owner or 
occupier of anv premises, and in consequence of there being gradations of owners 
or oceupiejs, aoubt arises as to who is the owner or occupier entitled to exercise 
such right or bound to perform such duty, the Commissioners may, after due 
enquiry, determine from time to tijiie which of such owners or occupiers shall 
be deemed to be so entitled or bound, 

540. Commissioners, municipal officers, etc., to be deemed public servants. — 

Every Commissioner, every municipal officer and servant, every person employed 
for the collection of any municipal rate, tax, or fee and every person authorized 
by the Chairman or the Commissioners at a meeting or otherwise to do any act 
under this Act or any rule or by-law made thereunder shall be deemed to be a 
public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (Act 
XLV of I860); and in the definition of legal remuneration in section 161 of that 
Code, the word Government shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to 
include a body of Municipal Commissioners. 

541. Prohibition of obstruction of municipal contractors. — No person shall 
obstruct or molest any person (not being a person referred to in section 540) 
with whom the Commissioners have entered Into a contract, in the performance 
or execution by such person of his duty or of anything which he is empowered 
or required to do by virtue, or in consequence of this Act or any rule or by-law 
made thereunder. 

642. Prohibition of removal of mark. — No person shall without the permission 
of the Commissioners remove any boundary mark set up under the provisions 
of this Act or any mark set up for the purpose of indicating any level, measure- 
ment or direction necessary to the execution of works authorized by this Act or 
by any rule or by-law made thereunder, 

**•••••■ 

543A. Power of State Government to proceed without consideration of views 
of the Commissioners at a meeting in case of default. — Whenever it is provided 
under this Act that the State Government may take action after considering the 
Views of the Commissioners at a meeting, or shall not take action except after 



Sec, 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1885 


II7I 


considering such views, if the Commissioners at a meeting fail to furnish the 
State Government with their views within such time or such extended time as 
the State Government may fix in that behalf, the State Government may proceed 
to take action in each case as if it were not bound to take action after con- 
sidering the views of the Commissioners as aforesaid. 

Chapter XXVTI. — Delegation op Powers and Control. 

Delegation 

644. Delegation of powers bv the State Government. — The State Government 
may, with regard to municipalities generally or to any municipality or class of 
municipalities and subiect to such conditions or restrictions as it mav deem fit 
to imnose, by notification delegate to the District Magistrate any of the powers 
vested in the State Government by this Act, except anv nower to make rules 
and the powers conferred by sections G, 8, 13, 15, 17, 67, 136, second proviso, 285, 
548, 649, 550, 552 and 553. 

544A. Director of Local Bodies. — O) The State Government may, if it thinks 
fit appoint a Director of Local Bodies to exercise the powers conferred on or 
delegated under this Act to the District Magistrate and upon such appointment 
the District Magistrate shall cease to exercise the said powers. 

(2) When the Director mentioned in sub-section (1) is appointed, the State 
Government mav delegate to him anv of the powers vested in the State Govern- 
ment as provided for in section 544 as if he were the District Magistrate, 

544B. Inspector of Local Bodies, — The State Government, if it thinks fit. may, 
by notification, anpoint one or more Inspector or Inspectors of Local Bodies to 
exercise such of the powers and nerform such of the functions referred to in sub- 
section (1) of section 545 as may be prescribed from time to time. 

Control 

545. Supervision bv Commissioner, District Mairistrate. etc. — (1) The District 

Magistrate or the Magistrate in charge of a sub-division when he Is not a member 
of the municipal ltv. within the limits of his district or sub-dlvlslon, as the case 
may be or a Magistrate of the first class authorised in writing by any one of 
them, may, — 

(a) insnect. or cause tn he insnected, anv immovable propertv used or 
occupied b'v the Commissioners or any work in progress und°r the 
direction of the Commissioners or of a joint committee; 

'(b) insnect or examine anv department of a municipality or any officer, 
service, work or thing under the control of the Commissionm-s or of 
such Committee; 

(c) for the purpose of inspection or examination, require the Com- 

missioners or such Committee — 

(il tn produce any book, record, correspondence, plan or other docu- 
ment, 

(ii) to furnish any return, plan, estimate, statement, account or statistics, 

or 

(iii) to furnish or obtain any report; 

(d) record In writing for the consideration of the Commissioners or of 

such Committee, any observations he thinks proper in regard to the 
proceedings or duties of the Commissioners or the committee, 

(2) When a reouisition is made under clause (c) of sub-section ft), the 
Commissioners or the Committee, as the case may be, shall comply with such 
requisition, 

545A. Power of the State Government to call for documents, returns or 
Information from the Commissioners. — The State Government may at any time — 

(a) call for any document in the possession or under the control of the 

Commissioners ; 

(b) require the Commissioners to furnish any return, plan, estimate, 

statement, account or statistics: 

(c) require the Commissioners to furnish any information or report OH 

any municipal matter. 



II rj Z THE GA7ETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, l'JGl/SRAVANA 7, 1889 [Part II 


546, Infection of municipal works and Institutions by Government officers. — 

A work or institution, constructed or maintained, in whole or part, at the expense 
of the Commissioners and all registers, books, accounts or other documents 
relating thereto shall, at all times, be open to inspection by such officers as the 
State Government may appoint in this behalf. 

547. Right of certain officers to attend and speak at meetings. — The Chief 

Engineer, Public Health Department, the Director of Public Health or Deputy or 
Assistant Director of Public Health, the Civil Surgeon of the district, the 
Executive Engineer, the Inspector of Schools, and any other officer specially 
authorised by the State Government in this behalf shall be entitled to attend a 
meeting of the Commissioners to address the Commissioners on anv matter 
affecting their respective departments. 

648. Power to suspend action under Act. — (1) The State Government may by 
order in writing annul any proceeding which it considers not to be in conformity 
with law and with the rules in force thereunder and may do all things necessary 
to secure such conformity, or may suspend any resolution which it considers 
likely to lead to a serious breach of the peace, or to cause serious injury or 
annoyance to the public, or to any class or body of persons. 

(2) The District Magistrate may, by order in writing, suspend within the limits 
of the district the execution of any resolution or order of the Commissioners, or 
prohibit the doing within those limits or any act which is about to be done, or 
is being done, in pursuance of, or under cover of, this Act or any rule or by-law 
made thereunder, if, in his opinion, the resolution, order or act is in excess of 
the powers conferred by law, or the execution of the resolution or order, or the 
doing of the act, is likely to lead to a serious breach of the peace, or to cause 
serious Injury or annoyance to the public, or to any class or body of persons. 

(3) When the District Magistrate makes any order under this section, he shall 
forthwith forward a copy thereof, with a statement of his reasons for making it, 
to the State Government, who may thereupon rescind the order or direct that it 
continue in force with or without modification, permanently or for such period 
as it thinks fit. 


549. Powers of State Government in case of default. — (1) If at anv time it 
appears to the State Government, that the Commissioners have made default in 
performing any duty imposed on them by or under this or any other Act, the 
State Government may, by an order in writing, fix a time for the performance 
of that duty. 

(2) If such duty is not performed within the period so fixed, the State Govern- 
ment may appoint the District, Magistrate to perform it. and may direct that the 
expense of performing it shall be paid, within such time as It may fix, to the 
Magistrate from the Municipal Fund. 


550. Power of State Government to supersede a department of a munici- 
pality. — (1) If in the opinion of the State Government the Commissioners — 


(i) have shown their incompetency to Perform, or have persistently made 

default in the performance of the duties imposed on them by or 
under this Act or by any other law; or 

(ii) have exceeded or abused their powers, 


in respect of any department under their control, the State Government may, 
except in the case of any emergency of which the State Government shall be the 
sole judge, by written order, direct the Commissioners within a period to be 
specified in the order to show cause to the satisfaction of the State Government 
against the making of an appointment referred to in sub-section (2). 


(2) If within the period fixed by any order issued under sub-section (1) 
cause has not been shown to the satisfaction of the State Government it may 
py an order published, with the reasons for making it, in the Official Gazette, 
a ®?„ n ‘, a , suitable person to be in charge of the department for a period to be 
specified in the order so published who shall during such period exercise all the 
perfo r m the duties of the Chairman and of the Commissioners 
wnether at a meeting or otherwise in respect of that department. 

G 9 v ernment in making such order shall direct that the expense 
oi per oirrung the duties of the department together with such remuneration as 



Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


1173 


the State Government may allow from time to time to such person shall be paid 
within such time as it may fix from the Municipal Fund. 

(4) If any dispute arises as to whether any particular power or duty relates 
to the department made over to such officer the matter shall be referred to the 
District Magistrate whose decision shall be final. 


551. Power to District Magistrate to direct payment of expenses from Munici- 
pal Fund. — If the expense is not paid under sub-section (2) of section 549 or 
under sub-section (3) of section 550 the District Magistrate with the previous 
sanction of the State Government, may make an order directing the person having 
the custody of the balance of the Municipal Fund to pay the expense, or so much 
thereof as is from time to time payable from the balance, in priority to any 
other charges against the same and such person shall pay accordingly. 

552 Power to dissolve body of Commissioners. — If in the opinion of the 
State Government, the Commissioners have shewn their incompetency to per- 
form or have persistently made default in the performance of the duties imposed 
on them bv or under this Act or by any other law, or have exceeded or abused 
their powers, the State Government mav, bv nn order published with the reasons 
for making it, in the Official Gazette, direct that a fresh general election shall be 
held immediately of persons to be Commissioners; and from the date on which 
the results of such new election and appointment of Commissioners under section 
26 (if any] are published in accordance with the provisions of section 50 the 
former Commissioners shall. unPss they are re-elected or re-appointed for the 
purpose of section 26, vacate their offices: 

Provided that the tenure of office of the Chairman of the outgoing body of 
Commissioners shall continue until that office is vacated in the manner pro- 
vided by section 59. 


553. Power to supersede Commissioners in case of Incompetency, default or 
abuse of powers. — If, in the opinion of the State Government, the Commissioners 
have shown their incompeteney to perform or has persistently made default in 
the performance of the duties imposed on them by or under this Act or by any 
other law or have exceeded nr abused them powers, the Stat Q Government may, 
by an order published with the reasons for making it, in the Official Gazette, 
declare such Commissioners to be incompetent, or in default, or to have exceeded 
or abused their powers, as the case may be, and supersede them for a period to 
be specified in the order: 


Provided that except in case of misappropriation of municipal funds or per- 
sistent default in the performance of duties by the Commissioners the State 
Government shall not ordinarily exercise power under this section until action 
has been taken under section 552. 

554. Consequence of supersession.— (1) When an order of supersession has been 
passed under section 553, the following consequences shall ensue: — 

(a) all the Commissioners shall, as from the date of the order, vacate their 

offices as such Commissioners; 

(b) all the powers and duties which may, under the provisions of this 

Act or any other Act or anv Ordinance or any Regulation, or any 
rule, by-law. order, notification or subsidiary legislation made under 
the provisions of this Act or such other Act or such Ordinance or 
such Regulation be exercised and performed by the Chairman and by 
the Commissioners whether at a meeting or otherwise, shall, during 
the period of supersession, be “xerejsed and performed by such 
person or persons as the State Government may direct: 

Provided that when the State Government directs more than on= person to 
exercise any powers and perform anv duties it shall, bv order, allocate such 
powers and duties between the several persons appointed in such manner as It 
thinks fit: 



H74 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 1883 


[Part II 


Provided further that the State Government shall fix the; remuneration of 
such, person or persons, and may direct that such remuneration shall, in each 
case, be paid from the Municipal Fund; 

(c) all property vested in such Commissioners shall, during the period of 
supersession, vest in the State Government, 

(2) On the expiration of the period of supersession specified in the order, the 
State Government may— 

(I) extend the period of supersession for such further term as It may 

.consider necessary, or 

(II) reconstitute the Commissioners of the municipality by a fresh general 

.election and the persons who vacated thrir offices under clause (a) 
of sub-section (1) shall not be deemed disqualified for election or 
appointment under section 26. or 

(ili) reconstitute the Commissioners of the municipality by appointment 
only for sfich period as it may consider necessary and the persons 
who vacated their offices under clause (a) of sub-section (1) shall 
not be deemed disqualified lor appointment: 

Provided that the State Government may, if circumstances permit, at any time 
before the expiration of the period of supersession take action either under clause 
(ii) or clause (ill) of this sub-section. 

655. Withdrawal of sections expressly extended by the State Government. — 

Where specific provision is made in any section of this Act for its being extended 
by the State Government to any municipality, the State Government may, at any 
time, by order, withdraw any section it may thus have extended to any munici- 
pality from operation in such municipality, and such section shall cea^c to have 
effect In the said municipality from the date of such order. 

650. Disputes. — If any dispute arising out of the oneration of this Act for thp 
decision of which this Act does not otherwise provide arises between the Com- 
missioners of any municipality constituted, under this Act, and arjv other local 
authority, such dispute shall ba referred to the State Government whose decision 
shall be final and shall not ,be questioned' in any court. 

557. Power to state Government to make rules for the amendment of certain 
schedules. — (1) The State Government may by rules alter, add; to or cancel 
any rule or parts thereof or may by notification alter, add, or cancel any entry 
contained in Schedules III and IV to this Act. 

(2) All references in this Act to any schedule which may be amended under 
sub-section (1) shall be construed as references to such schedules as for the 
time being amended. 


Schedule III 

(See section 123, 168, 169, 171, 172, and 557). 
Tax on carriages and on horses and other antimals • 


Per 

half-year 
Rb. a. 

(1) On every Jin-rickshaw . . 2 o 

(2) On every 4-wheried carriage drawn by two horses 60 

(3) On every 4-wheeled carriage drawn by one horse or a pairofponies under thirteen 

hands g 

(4) On every 2 -wheeled carriage 30 

(5) On every horse 30 

(6) On every pony under thirteen hands and on every mule and donkey . 18 

(7) On every elephant 90 

(8) On every camel 4 0 

(9) On every 4-wheeled carriage drawn by one pony under thirteen hands . 3 o 

(10) On every cycle-rickshaw 40 



Sfcc. S(i)] THE GAZETTE Of INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SftAVANA 1, 1888 


n ?5 


Schedule IV 

(See sections 123, 182, 215 and 557) 

[Tax on trades, professions and callings] 

Every license shall be granted’ under one or other of the classes mentioned 
in the second column of the following table and there shall be paid half-yearly 
for the same a tax not exceeding the amount mentioned in that behalf in the 
third column of the table: — 




Maximum 

Serial 

Classes. 

half-yearly 

No. 


tax in 



rupees 

1 

2 

3 


i Company or association or body of individuals which exercise ar y profession, 
trade or calling whatsoever for profit or as a benefit society not being a 
registered co-operative soccity of which the paid-up capital is equivalent 


to- 
fu) More than Rs. 10,00,000 ........ 200 

(ft) More than Rs. 5,00,000 but not more than Rs. 10,00,000 . • 100 

(c) More than Rs. 1,00,000 but not more than Rs. 5,00,000 ... 50 

(d) Rs. 1,00,000 or less ......... 20 


2 Merchaut, banker, not being aregistered co-operative society, money-lender, 
wholesale trader, owner or occupier of a market, bazar or theatre or place 
of public entertainment, broker or dalal in jute, cotton, precious stones, 
landed property, country produce, silk or other merchandise, retail trader 
or shop-keeper, boarding-house-keeper, hotel-keeper, lodging-house- 
keeper, tea-stall-kccpcr, eating-house-keeper, whose place of business is 
valued under this Act at not less than— 


(a) Rs. 1,000 per mensem . . . ■ . . . . . 125 

(ft) Rs. 500 per mensem ........ too 

(c) Rs, 250 per mensem 75 

(d) Rs. too per mensem 50 

(e) Rs. 50 per mensem ......... 25 

(f) Rs. 25 per mensem ......... 12 

Of) Rs. 12 per mensem 4 

( h ) Rs. 6 per mensem ......... 2 

(») Rs. 3 per mensem ......... 1 

3 Commission agent, broker not included in serial No. 2, architect, engineer, 
contractor, medical practitioner, dentist, barrister, legal practitioner- — 

(a) in respect of whose income, income-tax is payable ... 10 

(ft) in respect of whose income no income-tax is payable ... 5 

5 Itinerant vendors hawking goods for sale ...... I 


Schedule V 

**•••*** 

Schedule VI 

(See Sections 312, 313, 317, 318, 319, 321, 322, 326, 327, 328, 329, 330 and 364) 
Rules as to the use of building-sites and the execution of building work 

Section A. — Building-sites 

1. No piece of land shall be used as a building-site unless the Chairman is 
BDtisfled — 

(a) that the site is fit to be built upon from sanitary and engineering points 
of view; 



ii 7 6 The gazette of india :JUly 29 , isei /sftAVANA 7, isSi [Part ii 


(b) that it is well-drained or is capable of being well-drained, and that 
the owner will take the necessary steps to drain it; and 

(e) that where the site is within thirty feet of a tank, the owner will take 
such measures as shgll prevent any risk of the drainage from such 
building passing into the tank. 

Section B. — Buildings generally ( other than huts ) 

Part I 

2. Except with the written permission of the Chairman the foundation of 
buildings other than huts shall rest on natural ground. 

3. The spread of the foundation shall be such that the pressure on the soil, 
taking into account the load on the floors and terrace roof (if any) shall not in 
any case exceed a maximum to be laid down by the Commissioners at a meeting 
with the approval of the State Government. 

4. The depths of the foundation shall be such as the Chairman may approve, 

5. The plinth of every such budding, except in the case of motor garages and 
coach houses, shall be at least one foot six inches above the level of the centre 
of the nearest street. 

0. The plinth of stables and cowsheds shall be at least one foot above such 
level. 

7. The walls of every such building shall be constructed upon proper footings, 

8. The outer walls of every such building £hall be constructed of brick or 
other substance of a hard and incombustible nature. 

9. The walls of every such building shall be properly bonded. 

10. If such building has more than one storey, every wall Bhall be of such 
thickness as the Chairman may consider necessary to ensure safety, regard being 
had to the height of the building, the materials of which it Is constructed and the 
purpose for which it is intended to be put. 

11. The floors of every such building shall be so constructed as to carry safely 
the maximum load, the allowance for live-load not being less than flfty-six 
pounds per square foot. 

12. Every beam and girder in such building shall be supported by a breadth 
of brickwork, stone or other solid substance sufficient to secure stability. 

13. The bearing of every beam or girder of a wall shall not, without the 
written permission of the Chairman, be less than three-fourths of the thickness 
of such wall. 

14. No timber or woodwork in such a building shall be placed — 

(a) in any wall or chimney-breast nearer than nine inches to the inside 

of any flue, stove-pipe or chimney-opening, and 

(b) under any chimney-opening within 15 inches from the upper surface 

of the hearth thereof. 

15. Every terraced roof shall be constructed to carry such load, not being less 
than forty pounds per square foot, in addition to its own weight as may be 
approved by the Chairman. 

Part II 

16. The lowest floor of every building erected or reconstructed from the 
ground level shall be constructed at such a level as shall permit of such building 
being effectually drained and of the drainage being led into an existing or pro- 
posed public drain. 

17. No building shall be erected or raised to a greater height than sixty feet 
measured from the level of the centre of the street in front — 

(a) in the case of pitched roof, up to the tie-beam of the roof, and 

(b) in the case of a flat roof, up to the surface of the roof. 

18. In the case of a pitched roof, the roof above that height shall rise at an 
angle of not more than forty-five degrees. 



Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


1177 


19. In the case of a flat roof, no parapet shall be constructed more than three 
feet above the maximum height specified in rule 17. 

20. If the width of the street does not exceed twenty-six feet, such building 
ehall not be erected or raised to a height greater than one and a half times the 
width of such street. 

21. If the width of the street exceeds twenty-six feet, but does not exceed 
forty feet, such building shall not be erected or raised to a height greater than 
forty feet, 

22. If the width of the street exceeds forty feet, such building shall not be 
erected or raised to a height greater than the width of such streets. 

23. Where such building abuts upon more than one street, its height shall be 
regulated by the wider of such streets so far as it abuts upon such wider street, 
and also to a distance of eighty feet from such wider street so far as it abuts upon 
the narrower of such streets, 

24. If the face of such building is set back from the street at any height not 
exceeding the height specified in rule 17, such building may be erected or raised 
to a height greater than that so specified, but not so that any portion of such 
hblldjng shall intersect any of a senes of imaginary straight lines drawn from the 
line of sct-back, in the direction of the portion set-back, at an angle of forty-five 
degrees with the horizontal. 

26. Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing rules any house 
which has been demolished may, within a period of two years, from the date 
of its demolition, be re-erected to a height not exceeding its original height, 
provided that the onus of proving the height of the original building prior to 
demolition shall lie upon the person applying for sanction to re-build. 

26. Every interior courtyard shall be raised at least one foot above the level 
of the centre of the nearest street, so as to admit of easy drainage into such street. 

27. Every house, if this in the opinion of the Chairman be practicable, shall 
be provided with a secondary means of egress in case of fire. 

With respect of roofs, floors and staircases 

28. The flat and roof of such building, and every turret, dormer, lantern-light, 
skylight, or other erection placed on the flat or roof of such building shall be 
externally covered with slates, tiles, metal, or other incombustible materials 
except as regards any door, door-frame, window or window-frame of any such 
turret, dormer, lantcrn-llght, skylight or other erection. 

29. In every new public building, the floor of every lobby, corridor, passage 
and landing which is not intended solely as a means of access to any private 
apartment, and all the supports of every such floor shall be constructed of stone 
or other incombustible or fire-resisting materials, and shall be of adequate strength, 

30. Every staircase in a new building shall be properly constructed of sound 
and suitable materials, and securely fixed and shall be of adequate strength. 

31. In every new public building every staircase which is not intended solely 
as a means of access to any private apartment shall be constructed of incom- 
bustible materials, and carried by supports of incombustible materials and shall 
he furnished on each side with a sufficient hand-rail, properly and securely fixed. 

32. In every new public building every staircase which is intended solely aa 
a means of access to any private apartments shall be provided with a sufficient 
hand-rail properly and securely fixed. 

33. In every' new building containing separate sets of chambers or offices or 
rooms constructed or intended or adapted to be tenanted by different persons, 
and which shall exceed fifty thousand feet in cubic content, the floor or every 
lobby, corridor, passage and landing and every flight of stairs in any staircase in 
such building, and all the supports of every such floor and flight of stairs shall 
be constructed of stone or other fire-resisting materials, and shall be of adequate 
strength and the principal staircase and landings of such building shall be 
enclosed with walls, not less than nine inches in thickness, constructed and good, 
hard, sound, well-burnt bricks, stone, or other hard and incombustible materials, 
properly bonded and solidly put together. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 19£1 /SRAVANA 7, 188S 


[Past ii 


II78 


Section C.—Dwelling houses and other domestic buildings (other than huts). 

34, The total area covered by all the buildings on any site used for a dwelling 
house shall not exceed two-thirds of the total area of the site, and the area so 
covered shall form part of the site, and no building or part of a building shall 
be erected so as to encroach upon the area so left vacant, 

35. There shall be at the back of every domestic building an open space— 

(a) extending along the entire width of the building; 

(b) exclusively belonging to such building; 

(c) free from any erection thereon above the level of the ground, except 

a water-closet, earth-closet, or ash-pit; and 

(d) not legs than ten feet in width from every part of the back of such 

building to the opposite boundary of the premises. 

38. If the height of such building be not less than thirty feet, the width of 
such open space shall not be less than fifteen feet, and if such height exceed 
forty-five feet the width shall not be less than twenty-five feet. 

37. This rule shall not apply where the back of a building abuts on a public 
square or street or a place dedicated to public use and not likely to be built 
upon not less than six feet in width, but in such cases, the height of the buildiifg 
snail nevertheless, in accordance with the provisions of rules 17 to 25, be regu- 
lated by the width of the public square, street, or place on which it abuts. 

38. For the purposes of rule 37, the back of a building shall be deemed to be 

that face of the building which is furthest from any street at the side of which 
the building is situated: * 

Provided that, where a building is situated at the side of more than one street, 
the back of the building shall, unless the Chairman otherwise direct, be deemed 
to be that face of the building which is furthest from the widest of such street. 

39. If any person desires to erect a domestic building upon a site which is 
Irregular or Is of such a nature that it is impracticable to provide an open space 
in the rear of the building of the dimensions prescribed by rule 35 or rule 38, 
the Chairman may relax the provisions of those rules: 

Provided that — 

(a) such open space shall be left as the Chairman may consider practicable, 

having regard to all the circumstances of the case, and 

(b) not more than two-thirds of the total area of the site shall be occupied 

by buildings. 

40. (1) If either side of a domestic building is not attached to the adjacent 
building, and if such side does not abut on a public square or street which is 
not less than six feet in width, 

there shall be between the buildings an open space extending along the entire 
length of such side and forming part of the said domestic building: 

Provided that attachment of any building to the adjacent building shall not 
be allowed (except with the permission 0 f the Chairman) if either of the 
buildings is a dwelling house. 

(2) The minimum distance across such space from every part of the said 
domestic building to the boundary line of the land or building immediately 
opposite such part shall be — 

(a) six feet, if there is a building next to such boundary line or within 

two feet of it, or 

(b) four feet, if there is an open space of two feet or more on either side 

of such boundary line: 

Provided that, where there is a public street which is less than six feet wide 
by the side of the site the owner may, by giving to the Commissioners free of 
charg : such land as will make the street six feet wide, be exempted from leaving 
further side space under this rule. 

41. Every room used or intended to be used for purposes of human habitation 

(a) shall be in every part not less than nine feet in height measured from 

the floor to the underside of the beam on which the roof rests; 

(b) shall have a superficial area of not less than eighty square feet; and 


Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1%1/SRAVANA 7. I88S 


1179 


(c) shall be provided, for purposes of ventilation, with doors or windows 
opening directly into the external air or into an open verandah, 

42. (1) Every building used or intended to be used for purposes of human 
habitation shall be so constructed that every room therein shall have at least 
one side abutting for the whole of its length (which shall, in no case, be less 
than eight feet) on an open space, either external or internal. The internal open 
space snail, in no case, be less than eight feet across in any direction. The 
external open space shall, In no case, be less than eight feet across in any 
direction, except when such open space abuts for the whole of Its length on a 
street or other public space which is not less than fifteen feet across in any 
direction. 

(2) A building shall not be held to contravene sub-rule (1) of this rule if one 
side of a room abuts on an Internal or external verandah, provided that the 
verandah in its turn abuts for the whole of its length on an open space and 
that the width of such open space (not being less than eight feet) is double the 
width of the verKhdaH. 

(3) Every open space, external or internal, required by sub-rule (1) of this 
rule, shall be free and shall be kept free, from any erection thereon and shall be 
■open to the sky. 

(4) The side of every such room abutting on an external or internal open 
apace or an external or internal verandah shall have at least one-fifth of its area 
occupied by doors, windows or ventilators, but, in np case, shall the area so 
occupied be less than twenty-four square feet. Where, in the opinion of the 
■Chairman, it shall be considered necessary, additional ventilators of a type 
approved by the Chairman shall be provided in the remaining sides of such 
room. Such ventilator's shall communicate directly with the open air. 


Section D . — Applications for approval of sites for, and for permission to construct 
or re-construct, buildings, other than huts. 

43. Every application for approval of a site for a building and for permission 
to execute the work of constructing or re-constructing such building shall be 
submitted in the form given in Form A attached to these rules (to be supplied by 
the Chairman free of charge). 

44. Every such application shall be accompanied by a site-plan in duplicate 
drawn to a scale of not less than one-fiftieth of an inch to a foot, 

45. Every such site-plan shall show — 

(a) the boundaries of the site and of any contiguous land belonging to the 

owner thereof. 

(b) the position of the site in relation to neighbouring streets, 

(c) the name of the street in which it is proposed to erect the building, 

(d) the position of the building, and of all other buildings (if any), which 

the applicant intends to erect upon his contiguous land referred to 
in clause (a), in relation to — 

(i) the boundaries of the site, and in a case where the site has been 

partitioned the boundaries of the portion owned by the applicant 
and also the portions owned by the other owners, and 

(ii) all adjacent streets, buildings and premises within a distance of 

forty feet of the site and of the contiguous land (If any), referred 
to in clause (a), 

<e) the means of access from the street to the building, and to all other 
buildings (if any), which the applicant intends to erect upon his 
contiguous land referred to In clause (a), 

<f) the position and approximate height and the number of storeys of all 
other buildings within forty feet of the site, 

<g) the position and dimensions of proposed - kitchens, stair-cases, urinals, 
drains, cesspools, stables, cattle-sheds, cow-houses, wells and other 
appurtenances of the buildings, 

<(h) the free passage or way in front of the building, 

'(i) the space to be left about the building to secure a free circulation of 
Air, a dmis sion of light, and access for scavenging purposes. 



il8o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


[Part IB 


(j) the width of the street (if any) in front, and of the street (if any) at 

the rear of the building, and 

(k) such other particulars as may be required by the Commissioners. 


46. Every application to construct or re-construct a building shall also be 
accompanied by a plan in duplicate of the proposed building showing both ele- 
vations and sections properly coloured and neatlv and accurately drawn to a 
scale of not less than one-eighth of an inch to a foot. 

47. Every such plan shall show — 

(a) the depth and width of the foundations of the building, 

(b) the level of the lowest floor of the building, and 

(c) the level of all courtyards and open spaces in the building or premises 

and the plinth level of buildings with reference to the level of the 
centre of the nearest street. 

48. Every such application shall further be accompanied by a speciflcatlorr 
giving the following information — 

(a) the materials and method of construction to be used for external walls,. 

party walls, foundations, roofs, floors, fire-places and chimneys ; 

(b) the manner "in which roof and house drainage and the surface drainage- 

of the site will be ‘disposed of; 

(c) the manner, if any, in which it Is proposed to pave the courtyard an* 

open spaces in the building or premises and the slope to which the 
surface is to be made in each case; 

(d) the means of access that will be available to scavengers for the* 

cleansing of privies; 

(e) the purpose for which it is intended to use the building; 

(f) the means of ingress and egress, if the building is intended to be use* 

as a dwelling-house for two or more families or as a place for 
carrying on any trade or business in which more than twenty people- 
may be employed or as a place of public resort; and 

(g) such other" particulars as may be required by the Commissioners. 

49. The plans shall be signed by the applicant. 

50. All information and documents which it may be found necessary to require,, 
and all objections which it may be found necessary to make, before deciding 
whether a site should be approved for a building or whether permission, to con- 
struct or re-construct a budding should be given, shall be required and made in 
one requisition and the applicant shall be apprised thereof at the earliest possible- 
date. 

51. Within fifteen working days from the date of receipt of an application 
under section 317, the Chairman may require the applicant — 

(a) to furnish him with any information on matters referred to in these 

rules which has not already been given in the documents thereunder, 
or 

(b) to satisfy him that there are no objections which may lawfully be taken 

to the approval of the site. 

62. If any information or document required under rules 50 and 51 is; in the 
opinion of the Chairman, incomplete or defective, he may, within fifteen working, 
days from the date of receipt of the same, require further information or docu- 
ments to be furnished. 

53. If any requisition made under rules 51 and 52 is not complied with within 
three months, the application under section 317 shall be refused, 

54. When the Chairman has approved any site-plan or given permission to 
execute any work, he shall sign such site-plan of the work, as the case may be. 



Sec. 3(1)] THE GA/ETIE OF INDIA: Jl'LY 29 , 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 Xl8i 


55. One copy of the site-plans and one copy of the building plans shall be kept 
at the site of the building, at all times when building operations are in progress, 
and such plans shall be available at all such times for the inspection of the Chair- 
man or of any officer authorized by him in that behalf. 

Section E. — Huts generally 

56. Except with the written permission of the Chairman no portion of a hut 
aball be placed within six feet of a masonry or wooden building; provided that 
this rule shall not preclude the construction of huts in compounds in any case, 
•where masonry or wooden outhouses would be permissible. 

57. No hut shall be of more than two storeys nor exceed twenty feet in height, 
■measured from the top of the plinth to the junction of the eaves and wall. 

58. The plinth of a hut shall be raised at least one foot above the level of the 
centre of the nearest street or passage. 


Section F. — Huts on lands exclusively set apart for tire same 

59. Huts on land exclusively set apart for the same shall be built in continuous 
lines, in accordance with alignments to be prescribed by the Commissioners. 

60. Where an alignment prescribed under rule 59 does not correspond with the 
alignment of a street, a passage of at least twenty feet, measured from eave to 
nave, shall be left between the rows of huts abutting on such prescribed alignment. 

61. All passages referred to in rule 60 shall remain private property, subject 
to a right in the municipal authorities to send carts along them or otherwise make 
use of them for any of the purposes of this Act. 

02. Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 59 huts may, with the general 
sanction of the Commissioners, be built so as to form an open courtyard, com- 
prising at least one-fourth of the whole area occupied by the huts and courtyard, 
where the huts are of only one storey and at least one-third of such whole area 
where there are one or more two-storeyed huts on more than one side of the 
courtyard. 

63. There shall be between any two huts a space of at least three feet, 
■measured from eave to eave. 


Section G . — Applications for permission to construct or re-construct huts 

64. Every application for permission to construct or re-construct a hut shall 
be submitted in the form given in Form B attached to these rules (to be supplied 
by the Chairman free of charge). 

65. If it is intended to use the hut or part thereof for any of the purposes 
.specified in section 370 of the Act or as a stable, cattle-shed or cow-house, the 
fact shall be expressly stated In such application, 

66. Every such application shall be accompanied by a site-plan showing the 
hut, the means of access thereto from the street, and such other particulars as 
may be required by the Commissioners. 

67. The Chairman may require the applicant — 

(a) to furnish him with any information which has not already been given, 

or 

(b) to satisfy him that there are no objections which may lawfully be taken 

to the grant of permission to execute the work, 

68. If any information or plan required under rule 66 or rule 67 is, in ihe 
opinion of the Chairman, incomplete or defective, he may require further informa- 
tion or a fresh plan to be furnished. 

69. If any requisition made under iul- 67 or nde 68 is not complied with 
within two 'months, the application received under section 317 shall be refused. 



Il 82 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY ?9, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


[Part IX' 


Form A 
( See rule 43) 


Dated 

Application for permission to construct or re-construct a masonry building 
To 


The Chairman Municipality. 

Bir, 

I beg to give notice that I intend to construct or re-construct a masonry- 

building or make alterations in or additions to premises No in 

street, ward, and in accordance with the provisions of section 317, 

read with section 320, I forward herewith— 

(a) a site-plan in duplicate of the land for your approval, 

(b) a plan in duplicate showing elevations and sections of the proposed 

building together with a specification of the work, and 

(c) other particulars. 

1 request that the site may be approved and that permission may be accorded: 
to execute the work. 


Signature of the owner 
Address 


Form B 
(See rule 04) 


Dated 

Application for permission to construct or re-construct a hut 


To 

The Chairman, Municipality. 

Sir, 

I beg to give notice that I intend to construct or re-construct a hut or huts 

tn street, ward, and, in accordance with the provision of 

section 317, read with section 326, I forward herewith a site-plan, in duplicate 
showing the hut, the means of access thereto from the street, the position and 
nature of the nearest source of water-supply, the purpose for which the hut ia 
proposed to be erected and other particulars. 

I request that the site may be approved and that permission may be accorded 
to execute the said work. 

Signature of the owner 

Address. 

Schedule VII. 

• *•**•*#* 

Schedule VIII. 

• *****••• 

Schedule IX. 

• •*••***• 


[No. F. 6/1/60-Judl. II UTL-30.T 
K. R. PRABHU, Dy. Secyr 



Sec, 3 (i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 20, 196) /SRAVANA 7, 1888 II 83 


New Delhi, the 22nd July 1961 

G.S.R, 964, — In pursuance of rule 11 of the Indian Administrative Service (Pay) 
Rules, 1954, the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in 
Schedule III appended to the said rules. 

2. This amendment shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from 
2nd May 1961. 


Amendment 

In the said Schedule III under the heading ‘C-Posts carrying pay above the 
time-scale or special pay in addition to pay in the time-scale under the Central 
Government when held by members of the Service’ tho following entries shall be 
added against ‘Food and Agriculture', namely: — 

Extension Commissioner. . , .1,800 — 100 — 2,000.' 


[No. 1/80/61 -AIS (II).'J 


New Delhi, the 24 th July 1961 

G.S.R 965. — In pursuance of rule 11 of the Indian Police Service (Pay) 
•Rules, 1954, the Central Government, in consultation with the Government of 
Andhra Pradesh, hereby makes the following amendment in Schedule III append- 
ed to the said rules. 

2. This amendment shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from 
31st May, 1961. 


Amendment 

In the said Schedule III under the heading ‘B-posts in the senior time-scale of 
the Indian Police Service under the State Governments including posts carrying 
special pays in addition to pay in the time-scale’ against ‘Andhra Pradesh’ for 
the entry. 

'Deputy Director, Anti-corruption Bureau’ the following entry shall be 
substituted: — 

‘Joint Director, Anti-corruption Bureau.' 


[No. 1/81/61-AIS(II).J 
T. R. RAGHURAMAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

Nero Delhi, the 24th July 1961 

G.S.R. 966. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-sec- 
tion (2) of section 8 of the Diplomatic and Consular Officers (Oaths and Fees) 
Act, 1948 (41 of 1948), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules 
further to amend the Diplomatic and Consular Officers (Fees) Rules, 1949, pub- 
lished with Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of External 
Affairs No. 420-Cons., dated the 8th November, 1949, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Diplomatic and Consular Officers (Fees) 
First Amendment Rules, 1981. 

2. In the Schedule to the Diplomatic and Consular Officers (Fees) Rules. 
1949,— 

(i) in item 43, for the words and figures “Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 

1859’’. the words and figures “Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 ,r shall be 
substituted; 

(ii) for item 93 and entries relating thereto, the following item and entries 

shall be substituted, namely: — 

“93, Price of a visa application form 


0-13. : 



[Part n 


I 184 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961 ySRAVANA 7, 1883 


(111) in item 105, for the existing note, the following note shall be substituted, 
namely:— 

“Note . — No fee is to be charged for signing papers for the personnel In 
the Army, the Navy, the Air Force or in the Merchant service or 
their widows or heirs and the word ‘Gratis’ should be placed near 
the consular signature. The waiving of the fee should not be 
extended to persons drawing civil pensions or retired pay.” 

[No. F. 5(2) -Cons /60.] 
S. K. SINGH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue) 

New Delhi , the 29 th July 1901 

G.S.R. 967. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as. applied 
to the State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendment in the notification of the Government of India, in the Ministry 
of Finance (Department of Revenue) No. G.S.R. 575 (55/F. No. 34/86 /60-Cus. IV), 
dated the 28th May, 1960, namely: — 

Amendment 

In the Schedule to the said notification, after entry 129, the following entries 
shall be added, namely: — 

*'130. Vacuum Flasks’. 


[No. 82/F. No. 34/210/61-Cua.IV.l 


Customs 

New Delhi, the 29th July 1961 

G.S.R. 968. — In exercise of .he powers conferred by sub-section (!) of section 
438 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied 
to the State of Pondicherry the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendment in the Notification of the Government of India, in the Ministry 
of Finance (Department of Revenue) No. GSR — 575 (55/F. No. 34/86/60-Cus.IV) 
dated the 28th May, 1960, namely: — 


Amendment 

In the Schedule to the said notification, after the existing Item at Serial No. 130 
and entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

"131. Valve type football bladders.” 


[No. 85/F. No. 34/214/01-Cus.IV.] 

Customs and Central Excise 
New Delhi , the 29 th July 1961 

G.S.R. 969, — The following draft of rules further to amend the Customs and 
Central Excise Duties Export Drawback (General) Rules, 1960, which the Central 
Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred bv sub-section 
(3) of section 43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878) and section 37 of the 
Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944) as in force in India and as applied 
to the State of Pondicherry, is published as required by the said sub-section (3) 
of the said section 43B for the information of all persons likely to be affected 
thereby; and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consider ra- 
tion on or after the 30th August 1961, 

2. Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


DRAFT RULES 

1, These rules may be called the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export 
Drawback (General) Amendment Rules, 1961. 



Sac. J(i)] 1 HE GAZETTE Ol- INDIA: JULV 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 IX 85 


2. In the Second Schedule to the Customs and Central Excise Duties Expert 
Drawback (General) Rules, 1960 after the existing Item at Serial Number 90 and 
entries relating thereto, the following shall be added, namely: — 

“91. Vacuum Flasks.’ 1 


[No. 01/F. No. 34/210/01-Cus.IV.] 

G.S.R. 970.— The following draft of rules further to amend the Customs and 
Central Excise Duties Export Drawback (General) Rules, I960, which Jhe Central 
Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section 
(3) of section 43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878) and section 37 of 
the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), as in force in India and as 
applied to the State of Pondicherry, is published as required by the said sub- 
section (3) of the said section 43B for the information of all persons likely to be 
affected thereby; and notice is hereby Eiven that the said draft will be taken Into 
consideration on or after the 1st September, 1961. 

2. Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


DRAFT RULES 

1, These rules may be called the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export 
Drawback (General) Amendment Rules, 1961. 

2. In the Second Schedule to the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export 
Drawback (General) Rules, 1960, after the existing item at Serial No. 92, the 
following shall be added, namely:— 

"93. Valve type football bladders." 

[No. 93/F. No. 34/214/01-Cus.IV.] 
M. C. DAS, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Customs 

Neiv Delhi , the 29 th July 1961 

G.S.R. 971. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as In force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby prohibits with effect from the 29th 
August, 1901 the taking by sea or land out of India or the State of Pondicherry, 
of Palmarosa Oil, (also known as Rosha Oil, White Rosha Oil, Red Rosha Oil or 
Rosa Oil), produced In India, unless such Oil has been graded In accordance with 
the provisions of the Essential Oils Grading and Marking Rules, 1954, made under 
section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (I ol 1937), 
and la accompanied by a certificate to that effect from the Agricultural Marketing 
Adviser to the Government of India or any person specially empowered by him 
in this behalf. 

Provided that nothing" In this notification shall apply to any parcel, sent by post, 
containing ungraded commercial samples of Palmarosa Oil not exceeding 230 
grams in weight (gross). 

[No. 83.] 

S. VENKATESAN, Dy. Secy. 


ERRATUM 

In notification No, 131/60 F. No. 28/9/ 00-CX.III— Central Excises, dated 1st 
October, 1960, of the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue), published 
in the Gazette of India, Part II— Section 3 (i) , dated 1st October, 1960 as G.S.R. 
1138, the following correction is to be made: — 

Page 1626 — 

The ‘rate of rebate’ admissible to 'Swcetend Fruit Juices’ mentioned against 
S. No. XV, in col, 4 of the table may be read as “2-65” in place of “6' 25’’, 



1186 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, L96I /SRAVANA 7, 1883 [Part 11 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
(Exchange Control Department, Central Office) 

Bombay, the 12th July 1961 

G.S.R. 972. — In pursuance of clause (a) of sub-section 1 of Section 20 of the 
Foreign Exchange Regulation Act. 1947 (VII of 1947), the Reserve Bank of India 
hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made in the Schedule to its 
notification No, F.E.R.A. 34/47-R.B. dated the 14th August, 1947, namely: — 

In the said Schedule after the entry “Libya”, the following entries shall be 
added: — 

South Africa 
South West Africa 

[No. F.E.R.A. 188/61-R.B.} 

G.S.K. 973. — In pursuance of sub-section (1) of Section 5 of the Foreign Exchange 
Regulation Act, 1947 (VII of 1947), the Reserve Bank of India hereby directs that 
the following amendments shall be made in the Schedule to its notification, No. 
F.E.R.A. 119/63-R.B. dated the 30th July, 1963, namely: — 

In the said Schedule after the entry “Libya", the following entries shall be 
added:— 

South Africa 
South West Africa 

[No. F.E.R.A. 189/6 1-R.B.l 
H. V. R. IENGAR, Governor. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

Customs 

New Delhi, the 28 th July 1961 

G.S.R. 974. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the 
following rules to amend the rules published with the Notification of the Com- 
missioner of Customs, Salt, Opium and Abkari, Bombay No. 3120, dated the 9th: 
May, 1911 prescribing and limiting the powers and duties of the Additional 
Collectors of Customs at the Port of Bombay: — 

(1) There shall be two Additional Collectors of Customs at Bombay who shall 
be designated as — 

(a) Additional. Collector of Customs (Preventive); and 

(b) Additional Collector of Customs (Appraising). 

(3) The Additional Collector of Customs (Preventive) will be lncharge of the: 
departments of the Custom House mentioned below: 

(a) Preventive, 

(b) Import and Bond, 

(c) Coasting Trade Establishments, 

(d) Manifest Clearance, 

(e) Cash and Accounts, and 

(f) Statistics and Records. 

(3) The Additional Collector (Appraising) will be lncharge of the department* 
of the Customs House mentioned below: 

(a) Appraising, Including Air Unit, Postal Appraising, Refunds and Gov- 

ernment Stores: 

(b) Export; and 

(c) Drawback. 

(4) Appeals against the orders of the Additional Collectors shall lie to th* 
Central Board of Revenue. 


[No. 88/F, No. 22/1 / 59-Cus.I V.]' 
8. VENKATESAN, Secy.- 



Aec. 8 (i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 1883 


II87- 


CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 29 th July 1961 

G.S.R, 975. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 100A of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force jn India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, the Central Board of Revenue, hereby makes the following amend- 
ment In the Manufacture in Customs Bond (General) Rules, 1960, namely: — 

Amendment 1 

1. These Rules may be called the Manufacture in Customs Bond (General) 1 
Amendment Rules, 1961. 

2, In the Schedule to the Manufacture In Customs Bond (General) Rules, 1960, 
for the existing Item at Serial No. 3 and entries relating thereto, the following 
shall be substituted, namely: — 

“3. Fabrics, in the manufacture of which Metallic or Synthetic Yarn, or 
mixed yarn, is used”. 


[No. 84/F. No. 34/208/60-Cus.rV.] l i 
M. C. DAS, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 1 9th July 1961 

G.S.R. 976. — -In exercise of the powers conferred by section 13 of the Central 1 
Silk Board Act, 1948 (61 of 1948) the Central Government hereby makes the 1 
following rules, namely: — 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Central Silk Board (Recruitment) 
Rules, 1961. 

2. Application. — These rules shall apply to all categories of posts in the Central 
Silk Board specified in column 1 of the Schedule annexed hereto. 

3. Number and scale of pay. — The number of posts, and the scales of pay 
attached thereto shall be as specified in columns 2 and 3 of the said Schedule. 

4. Reservation. — A fixed number of posts shall be reserved for the candidates 
belonging to the Schedule Castes/Tribes In accordance with the general or special 
orders of the Government of India issued from time to time: 

Provided that if no suitable candidates belonging to the above said communities, 
are available, the vacancies so reserved may be filled by recruitment of suitable 
candidates from among other communities. 

5. Method of recruitment, age limit and other Qualifications. — The method of 
recruitment to the said posts, the age limit, qualifications and other matters 
connected therewith shall be as specified In columns 4 to 7 of the schedule afore- 
said; 

Provided that the educational qualifications and age limit prescribed for direct 
recruits shall not apply to promotees: 

Provided further that the maximum age limit prescribed for direct recruitment 
may be relaxed in the case of persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes /Tribes, 
displaced persons and other special categories of persons, in accordance with the 
orders issued by the Government of India from time to time: 

8. Probation. — The period of probation for direct recruits and the persons pro- 
moted departmentally, shall be two years. 

7. Procedure for recruitment. — (1) The selection of direct recruits and promotees 
shall be made by the Selection Committee err the Departmental Promotion Com- 
mittee as the case may he. 

(2) The recruitment by promotion In the case of posts in Groups I and II shall 
be made on the basis of merit with due regard to- seniority and In the case of post* 



irgs the GAZETTE OF INDIA jJULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 [Part JI 


In Groups III and IV, shall be made on the basis of seniority subject to the rejec- 
tions of the unfit. 

3. The recommendations of the Selection Committee and the Departmental 
Promotion Committee shall be duly taken Into consideration by the appointing 
authority at the time of appointment or promotion, 

8, Disqualification. — (i> No male candidate who has more than one wife living 
or who having a spouse living, marries in any ease in which such marriage la void 
by reason of its taking place during the life-time of such spouse, shall be eligible 
lor appointment to service. 

(21 No female candidate whose marriage is void by reason of the husband 
having a wife living at the time of such marriage or who has married a person 
who has a wife living at the time of such marriage, shall be eligible for appoint- 
ment to service: 

Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that there are special 
.^rounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the operation of this rule. 



Category and the 
name of post. 


GROUP I 
l. Assistant Secretary 
( Adminis tration) 


2. Assistant Secretary 
(Technical) 


3 Publicity Officer . 


Schedule 


Number Scale of pay Age Educational and other qualifications Method of recruit- In case of recruitment by 

of Posts. limit for acquired for direct recruits. ment whether direct premotion, grade from 

direct recruitment or by which promotion is made 

recruits, ‘promotion or tra- 

nsfer and percentage 
of the vacancies to 
be filled in by various 
methods. 

234 5 6 7 


f 


One 


One 


One 


Rs. 400 — 400 — 450 25 — 30 
— 30 — 600 — 35 — years 

67 0 — EB — 3 5 — 950. 


Do. Do . 


A degree of a recognised Univer- 
sity essential. Administrative 
experience in a responsible ca- 
pacity in a Government or Semi- 
Government Organisation for 
at least 5 years. 

Should be a graduate in Science 
from a recognised University 
in India with natural science 
as a special subject. Should 
have experience of at least 7 
years in Sericulture industry, 
out of which at least 5 years 
in a responsible supervisory 
capacity preferably in a Govt, 
or Semi-Government institu- 
tion. 


Departmental pro- Superintendent with three 
motion 100 percent. years service in the 
grade. 


Do. Senior Technical Silk 

Inspector with three 
years service in this 
grade. 


Do. 


Do, A degree of a recognised Univer- 
sity essential preferably in Arts 
with Economics as a special 
subject. Experience of not less 
than 3 years in publicity. 
Knowledge of preparation of 
write-ups, publicity brochures, 
posters, pamphlets etc. 

Desirable. Literary ability with 
adequate experience in editorial 
work in a responsible capacity 
in a Newspaper or a Periodical 


Do. Senior Technical Assis- 

tant with three years 
service in the grade,' 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 18SS U89. 


4. Export Promotion 
Officer. 

One 

■ 400—400 — 450 — 30 — 25 — 30 

6oo*— 35' — 670 — EB years. 

-35—950 

University degree essential prefer- 
ably in Commerce with Econo- 
mics as a special subject. Should 
have at least 3 years experience 
of work connected with exports. 

Departmental Pro- 
motion 100 per cent. 

Superintendent Supervi- 
sor Statistical-Cam-Co- 
sting Investigator with 
three years ser\ ice in the 
grade. 

GROUP II 

I. Superintendent 

One 

■ 450—25—575. 

Do. 

Essential. Should be a graduate of 
recognised university. Atleast 
8 years experience of which 
3 years service must be in a sup- 
ervisory capacity. 

Do. 

Assistant Superintendent/ 
Supervisor with three 
years service in the 
grade. 

2. Accountant . 

One 

• 270 — 15 — 435 — EB 

—20—575 

Do. 

Essential. Should be a graduate of 
a recognised university with ex- 
perience in accounts and audit 
Department of a Govt, or Semi- 
Govenunent office for at least 5 
years. 

Direct Recruitment 
100 per cent. 


3. Statistical- Cam-Co- 
sting Investigator 

One 

. 320 — 15 — 470 — EB 

—15—530. 

20—24 

years. 

Essential A Master’s degree in 
Statistics or 1st class Graduate 
in Science with Statistics as a 
special subject. Experience in 
Statistical work of allied nature 
in a responsible position pre- 
ferably with special reference 
to commodity statistics and in- 
terpretation of price trends. 

Direct recrui t m ent 
100 per cent 


4. Senior Technical 
Assistant (Publi- 
city) 

One 

Do. 

Do. 

Essential. A degree preferably in 
Arts of a Recognised University 
with Economics as one of the 
subjects. Experience in matters 
connected with publicity mater- 
ial and in commercial journa- 
lism. 

Do. 


5. Senior Technical 
Silk Inspector. 

Five 

Do. 

25—30 

years. 

Essential. Graduate in Science 
with Botany or Zoology as one 

Departmental pro- 
motion. 

Junior Technical S2k 
Inspectors with three 


1190 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, I96I/SRAVANA 7, 1BS3 [Part II 



6. Supervisor (Silk 
Trading Section) 

7. Assistant Superin- 
tendent. 


GROUP III 
1. Assistant 


2. Depot Assistant . 
3- Accountant . 


4. Junior Technical 
Silk Inspector. 





of the subjects or a Graduate 
in Agriculture or a Graduate 
in Tex. Technology or a Dip- 
loma holder in Tex. T echnology 
with practical experience in 
sericulture for at least 5 years. 


years service to the 

grade. 

One 

350 — 20 — 450 — 25 — 
475 

Do. 

Degree of a Recognised University 
with experience of office noting 
and drafting for 5 years. 

Do. 

Upper Division clerks 
with three years service 
in the grade. 

One 

3 so — 20 — 4 so — 25 — 
475 

• 

25—30 

years 

Essential. A degree 9f a Recog- 
nised University with experience 
of office noting and drafting for 
at least 5 years. 

Departmental pro- 
motion. 

Assistants 'Accountant with 
three years service in 
the grade. 

Six 

. 210 — to — 290 — 15 — 

320 — EB— 15 — 425 
— EB— 15— 530. 

21 — 24 
years 

A degree of a Recognised Univer- 
sity with office experience as 
Upper Div is ion Clerk for at 1 east 
three years. 

Departmental Pro- Upper Division clerks with 
matron 100 per cent three years service in 
the grade. 

Three 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

One 

320 — EB — 425. 

Do. 

Essential. A degree of a Recognised 
University preferably in Com- 
merce with advanced accounting 
and auditing as a special subject. 

Direct Recruitment 
100 per cent 


Five 

Do. 

Do. 

Essential. Graduate in Science 
with Botany and Zoology as 
one of the subjects or a Diploma 
holder in Textile Technology 
from a recognised University. 

Do. 





Desirable. Intensive training for 
atleast six months in different 
aspects of the Silk Industry viz. 
mulberry cultivation, silk worm 
rearing, seed production, silk 
realing, testing, marketing of 
cocoons. Must have worked 
for at least one year in a silk 
farm or grain age or a filature. 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JULY 29, 1961 /SRAVANA 7. 1883 1191 



I 


3 


4 


5. Stenographer . One . 210 — 10 — 290 — 15 — 19 — 23 

320 — EB — 15 — 425 years 


6. Silk Testing Assis- Six 
tant 


320 — El£— 15 — 425 years. 

— EB — 15—530, 


GROUP IV 

Upper Division Clerk Eighteen 130 — 5 — 160 — 8 — 2CO 18 — 21 
plus one — EB — 8 — 256 — EB years 

— 8- — 2 So 


GROUP V 

1. Lower Division Seventeen no — 3 — 13 1 — 4 — 155 IS — 21 
Clerk. plus four — EB — 4—175—5 — years. 

180. 


2. Demonstrators . One 

3. Staff Car Driver - One 


125— 3—131—4— 155 18—25 
years 


no — 3— 131 — 4 — 139 Do* 


5 


6 


7 


Intermediate, 'Senior Cambridge/ 
Higher Secondary certificate or 
equivalent qualifications. Mini- 
mum speed in short hand 120 
W'PJd, and minimum speed in 
typewriting 40 W.P.M. 

Graduate of a recognised Univer- 
sity or Diploma holder in Tex- 
tile Technology 


Direct recruitment 
but Departmental 
candidates should 
also be eligible to 
sit in the Competi- 
tive examination . 

50% by direct re- 
cruitment and 50% ' 
by Departmental 
promotions. 


Upper Division Clerks 
with three years service 
in the grade. 


Intermediate/Senior Cambridge.' 
Higher Secondary Certificate 
or equivalent qualifications with 
at least 1 year’s experience in 
office work. 


50% on the basis of Lower Division clerkswith 


a competitive exa- 
mination limited to 
Lower Division 
clerks of the Cen- 
tral Silk Board and 
50% by promotion 
on the basis of 
seniority cum fitness. 


three years service in the 
grade. 


Matriculation or equivalent quali- 
fications until replaced by Higher 
Secondary with a minimum 
speed in typewriting 30 words 
per minute. 


Middle School Standard 

Must possess a Driver’s Licence for 
cars/heavy vehicles with at least 
2 years experience. Middle 
Schopl Standard desirable. 


Direct recruitment 
(In case any of the 
class IV Staff with 
the minimum edu- 
cational qualifica- 
tions are available, 
they" will also be 
considered for the 
posts of Lower Di- 
vision Clerks) 

Direct recruitment 
too per cent. 

Do, 


1192 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, I961/SRAVANA 7 , 1885 [Part JI 



4 

. Junior Gestetner 
Operator. 


80— i — 85—2 — 95—* 
EB — 3 — no 

Do. 

Middle school Standard. Know- 
ledge of operation of duplicating 
machines essential 

Departmental i pro- Daftry with 
motion ioo_'percent _ service] in 

three years 
the grade. 

GROUP VI 

i. Daftry 

One 

75 —95 5_ 

18 25 

years 

Middle School Standard 

Departmental pro- Peons with three years 
motion 100 percent. the grade. 

2. Peon 

Fifteen • 

— -5 

Do. 

Do. 

Direct Recruitment 

100 percent. 


3. Chowkidar . 

Four 

Do. 

Do. 


Do. 


4. Hamal 

Two 

Do. 

Do. 

• • 

Do. 


5. Sweeper 

One 

Do. 

Do. 

* - 

Do. 



*If suitable candidates are not available, these posts should also be filled by direct recruitment. 


[No. F. 22/11/60-HS2-] 
A. VISVANATH, Dy. Secy. 


Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JULY 29, 19G1/SRAVANA 7, 1883 



fPARr IS 


THE GA7ET1E OF INDIA :JITIY 29, 19G1/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


New Delhi, the 21st July 1961 

G.S.R. .977, — In exercise ol the powers conferred by the proviso to the Article 
309 of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules to amend 
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Development Wing (Class III posts) 
Recruitment Rules, 1959, published with the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, No. 5/E. IV(223)/58, dated the 
19th January, 1959, namely: — 

(1) These rules may be called the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, 

Development Wing ("Class III Posts) Recruitment (1st amendment) 
Rules, 1961. 

(2) In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Development Wing (Class 

III posts) Recruitment Rules, 1959, after rule third, the following 
rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

“ Disqualifications : 

(1) No male candidate who has more than one wife living or who having 

a spouse living, marries in any case In which such marriage is 
void by reason of its taking place during the life time of suoh 
spouse, shall be eligible for appointment to the post. 

(2) No female candidate whose marriage is void by reason of the hus- 

band having a wife living at the time of such marriage or who has 
married, a person who has a wife living at the time of such mar- 
riage, shall be eligible for appointment to the post. 

Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied, that there are 
special grounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the 
operation of this rule”. 

[No. 5/30/61-Estt. IV.] 


G.S.R. 978. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to the Article 
309 of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules to amend 
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Development Wing), Class II (non- 
gazetted) posts Recruitment Rules, 1959, published with the Government of India 
m the Ministry of Commerce and Industry Notification No. 5-E. rV/228/58-SGR, 
dated the 20th October, 10 59, namely: — 

1. These rules mav be called the Ministry of Commerce and Industry 

(Development Wing) Class II (non-gazetted) posts Recruitment (1st 
amendment) Rules. 1961. 

2. In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Development Wing) Class 

II (non-gazetted) posts Recruitment Rules, 1959, for the existing 
rule, 5 the following rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

“5. (1) No male candidate who has more than one wife living or who 
having a spouse living, marries in any ease in which such marriage 
is void by reason of his taking place during the life time of such 
spouse, shall be eligible for appointment to the post; 

(2) No female candidate whose marriage is void by reason of the hus- 
band having a wife living at the time of such marriage or who 
has married - a person who has a wife living at the time of such 
marriage, shall be eligible for appointment to the post; 

Provided that the Central Government may if satisfied that there are 
special grounds for so ordering, exempt anv person from the 
operation of this rule”. 


[No. 5/30/61-Estt. IV.T 


G.S.R, 979.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 1 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules to amend' 
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Development Wing (Research Assistant, 
Grade I), Recruitment Rules, 1960, published with the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India, in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. 5-E. IV(222)/53- 
GSR, dated the 27th October, 1900, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
(Development Wing) Research Assistant (Grade I) Recruitment (1st 
Amendment) Rules, 1901. 



Sec 3 (i)] 


THE GAZETTE of INDIA: JULY £9, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


U95 


2. In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Development Wing (Re- 
search Assistant, Grade I), Recruitment Rules, 1960, after rule 4, the 
following rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

"5. Disqualifications: — 

(1) No male candidate who has more than one wife living or who having 

a spouse living, marries in any case in which such marriage is 
void by reason of its taking place during the life time of such 
spouse, shall be eligible for appointment to the post; 

(2) No female candidate whose marriage is void by reason of the hus- 

band having a wife living at the time of such marriage or who 
has married a person who has a wife living at the time of such 
marriage, shall be eligible for appointment to the post; 

Provided that the Central Government may if satisfied that there are 
special grounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the 
operation of this rule”. 


[No. 5/30/61-Estt. IV.] 

G.S.R. 980. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 
of the Constitution,- the President hereby makes the following rules to amend 
the Import and Export Trade Control Organisation Class III Recruitment Rules, 
1957, published with the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Commerce and Industry No. G.S.R. 183, dated the 11th March, 1958, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Import and Export Trade Control Organi- 

sation Class III Recruitment (Amendment) Rules, 1981; 

2. In the Import and Export Trade Control Organisation Class III Recruit- 

ment Rules, 1957, after rule 2, the following rule shall be inserted, 
namely; — 

“3, Disqualifications. 

(1) No male candidate, who has more than one wife living or who 

having a spouse living, marries in any case in which such marriage 
is void by reason of its taking place during the life-time of such 
spouse, shall be eligible for appointment to the post; 

(2) No female candidate, whose marriage Is void by reason of the hus- 

band having a wife living at the time of such marriage or who 
has married a person who has a wife living at the time of sufih 
marriage, shall be eligible for appointment to the post; 

Provided that the Central Government may if satisfied that there are 
special grounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the 
operation of this rule”. 

[No. 6/137/60-Estt. IV.] 
S. R, BANERJEE, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND COOPERATION 
(Department of Community Development) 

New Delhi, the 22nd July 1961 

G.S.R. 981 In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hercbv makes the following rules further to 
amend the Department of Communitv Development (Class III Ministerial and 
non-Mlnisterial posts) Recruitment Rules, I960, published with the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Community Development and Co- 
operation (Department of Community Development) No. G.S.R. 1198, dated the 
24th September, 1060, namely:— 

1. These rules may be called the Department of Community Development 
(Class III Ministerial and non-Ministerial posts) Recruitment (Amendment) 
Rules. 1961. 

2. In column 7 of the Schedule to the Department of Commpnitv Develop- 
ment (Class III Ministerial and non-MInlsterial pogtsl Recruitment Rules, 1960, 

(1) against Item 4, for the existing entrv, the entry “25 years" shall be 
substituted. 



H 96 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 1883 


[Part II 


(2) against item 7, for the existing entry, ths entry “25 years’" shall be 
substituted. 


[No. F. 14/137 /58-Admn.] 
KHADER ALI KHAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 
(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

Ports 

New Delhi, the 1 9th July 1961 

G.S.R. 982. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 5 and 0 of the 
Bombay Landing and Wharfage Fees Act, 1882 (Bombay Act No. VII of 1882), as 
applied to the Port of Kandla, the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendments in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Transport, No. 3-P.II( 137)/ 54-1, dated the 1st October 1956, namely: — 

In Chapter I of the said notification, In paragraph 4 under “Method of calculat- 
ing wharfage charges” for the sentence “For liquids, the dividing point is 1000 
litres”, the following sentence shall be substituted, namely: — 

“For liquids, the dividing points are 250, 500 and 750 litres.” 

[No. F. 2-PG(47)/01.] 

G.S.R. 983.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 5 and 6 of the 
Bombay Landing and Wharfage Fees Act, 1882 (Bombay Act No. VII of 1882), as 
applied to the Port of Kandla, the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendments in the notification of the Government of India, in the Ministry 
of Transport, No. 3-P.II(137)/54-V. dated the 29th February 1956. namely: — 

In the said notification, — 

( 1 ) in the Table relating to wharfage charges on petroleum and petroleum 
products, in the column relating to ‘Rate’, for the figures “3-05” wherever they 
occur, the figures ‘3:06’ shall be substituted; 

(2) in paragraph 4 under the heading “method of calculating Wharfage 
charges”, for the sentence “For liquids, the dividing point is 1000 litres”, the follow- 
ing sentence shall be substituted, namely: — 

“For liquids the dividing points are 250, 500 and 750 litres.” 

[No. F. 2-PG(47)/61.} 

G.S.R. 984. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
35 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (13 of 1908), the Central Government hereby 

makes the following further amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India In the Ministry of Transport (Transport Wing) No. 3-P.II(144)/54, dated the 
23rd March, 1955, namely: — 

For the Schedule to the said notification, the following Schedule shall be 
substituted, namely: 

Schedule. 

Charges for pumping bulk oil through the Pipe Line 


SI. 

No. 


Rate per ioog litres 

Range of quantity to be pumped 

White 

Oil 

Black 

Oil 

I, 

Less than 3 , 00,000 metric tonnes 

Rs. nP- 

2 0279 

Rs. nP. 

2 . 3029 

2 . 

From 3 , 00,000 metric tonnes to 4 , 00,000 
metric tonnes 

2 .0279 

2. 3029 



Sec. S (i)J 


1197 


SI. 

No. 


3 . 


A- 


5 - 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA; JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


Rang; of quantity to b: pumped 


From 4,00,000 m;tric tonnes to 5,00,000 
metric tonnes 

F rom 5,00,00a metric tonnes to 6,00,000 
metric tonnes 

From 6,oo,ooo metric tonnes to 7,oo,cco 
metric tonnes 


Rate per 1000 litres 

White 

Black 

Oil 

Oil 

Rs. nP, 

Rs. tip. 

1.6842 

1 -9133 

1 ' 455 T 

1-6613 

1.3061 

1.4893 


[No. F. 2-PG(47)/01.J 


New Delhi, the 25 th July 1961 

G.SJR. 985. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of sec- 
tion 58-A of the Madras Port Trust Act, 1905 (Madras Act No. 2 of 1905), the 
Central Government hereby exempts from the operation of the said section drugs 
and medicines whi<*h do not contravene any of the provisions of section 9 or 10 
of the Drugs Act, 1940, or the rules made thereunder and which are lying in 
the Port uncleared for over a month. 

Such goods shall be delivered by the Board namely the Trustees of the Port 
of Madras, to the party or parties notified to the Board In writing by the Assist- 
ant Drugs Controller (India), Madras, on payment of the price fixed by the 
Customs in each case. 

[No. F. 13~PG(30) /60.] 

G.S.R. 986. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 5 and 6 of the 
Bombay Landing and Wharfage Fees Act, 1882 (Bombay Act No. VII of 1882), 
as applied to the Port of Kandla under Ministry of Transport Notification 
No. 14-P(89)/49-I, dated the 29th June, 1950, the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendment in the Scale of Rates at Kandla Port-Levy of 
Port Charges as published in the Government of India, Ministry of Transport, 
Notification No. 3-PII (137 ) /54-I, dated the 1st October, 1955, namely: — 

Amendment 

In the said notification, in Chapter I under the heading Scale ‘A’, Wharfage; 
for the existing entries relating to item No. 89(b), the following entries shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

"(b) Goods in bales, Crates, etc. 1 cu.m, 2 82 

or 1000 Kgms. 3‘94" 

[No. F. 2-PGj[33) /60-I.] 
M, V. NILAKANTA AYYAR, Under Secy. 


(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

Merchant Shipping 
New Delhi, the 29 th July 1961 

G.S.R. 987. — In exercise of the powers conferred by. sub-section (1) of section 
173 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), the Central Government here- 
by makes the following rules, namely: — 

1. Short Title and Application— (1) These rules may be called the Merchant 
Shipping (Carriage of Medical Officers) Rules, 1961. 

(2) They shall apply to foreign-going ships, registered under the Merchant 
Shipping Act, 1958, other than unberthed passenger ships and pilgrim ships. 



1x98 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1889 [Part II 


2, Medical Officer to be carried on board in certain cases. — Every foreign-going 

ship carrying more than one hundred persons (including the crew) shall have on 
board as part of her complement a Medical Officer possessing the qualifications 
specified in rule 3. 

3. Qualifications of Medical Officer. — (1) Every Medical Officer referred to in rule 
2 shall be a person possessing a degree in medicine and surgery of any recognised 
University and shall also be enrolled as a Medical Practitioner on the register of 
the Medical Council of a State. 

(2) Every such Medical Officer shall also hold a licence issued by the Health 
Officer of the port of departure of the ship, in the form set out In the Annexure to 
these rules. 

(3) Every licence issued under sub-rule (1) shall be in force for a period of 
two years. 

Provided that where, at the time of expiry of the licence, the ship carrying the 
Medical Officer is on the seas beyond India, the licence shall be deemed to be in 
force until the ship returns to the port, 

Annexube 
[See rule 3(2)] 

Form o/ licence to be granted to Medical Officers, 

The bearer of this holding a degree in medicine and surgery 

from.,- .and enrolled as a medical practitioner on the register of the 

Medical Council of the., State, Is licensed to be carried as the Medical 

Officer of a foreign-going ship under section 173 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 
1958 (44 of 1958), 

This licence shall be in force for two years from this date. 

Dated . 

(Here enter seal of Office). 

Signature of recipient. 

Health Officer. 

[No. 30-ML(3fl)/ 60.] 
B. P, SRIVASTAVA, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 16th July 1961 

G.S.R. 988. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Central Fisheries Inland and Marine Research Stations (Recruitment 
to Class HI and Class IV posts) Rules, 1959, published with the notification of the 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Department of Agriculture) No. G.S.R. 735 dated 
the 15th June, 1959 at pages 898 to 915 of the Gazette of India, Part II Section 3(1) 
dated the 27th June, 1959, namely:— 

1. These rules may be called the Central Fisheries Inland and ‘Marine Research 
Stations (Recruitment to Class ITT and Class IV posts) — Amendment Rules, 1961. 

2. In the Central Fisheries Inland and Marine Research Stations (Recruitment 
to Class III and Class IV posts) Rules, 1959, in rule 4, the following proviso shall 
be inserted, namely: — 

"Provided that the upper age limit prescribed for direct recruits shall he 
relaxed In the case of Schedule Castes/Tribes, Displaced persons and 
other special categories In accordance with general orders Issued from 
time to time by the Government of India.” 

3. After rule 4 of the said rules, the following rule shall be Inserted, namely: — 
"5. Disqualifications. — (1) No male candidate, who has more than one wife 

living or who having a spouse living, marries In any case in which 



H99 


■Sec. 3 (i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


such marriage is void by reason of its taking place during the life- 
time of such spouse, shall be eligible for appointment to the post. 

(2) No female candidate, whose marriage is void by reason of the husband 
having a wife living at the time of such marriage or who has married 
a person who has wife living at the time of such marriage, shall be 
eligible for appointment to the post: 

Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that there are special 
grounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the operation of this 
condition.” 

4, In the Schedule to the said rules, 

(1) for the entry in column 9 against each of items 1 to 36 relating to Class 

III employees, the entry “two years” shall respectively be substituted; 

(2) against item 2, 

(i) for the entry, in column 5, the word “selection” shall be substituted; 
<ii) in column 8 for the abbreviations "N.A.” the word “No” shall be 
substituted; 

till) for the entry in column 10, the expression “75 per cent, by direct 
recruitment and 25 per cent, by promotion” shall be substituted; 

(iv) in column 11, for the abbreviation “N.A,” the words “Field Investiga- 
tors having a minimum service of six years In the grade” shall be 
substituted. 

(3) The foot-note at the end shall be omitted. 

[No. l-151/60-FY(I).] 
C. R. SRINIVASAN, Under Secy. 


ERRATUM 

In Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Department of Food) notification 
No. 204, (Genl.) (l)/534/61/Py.— IT, dated 10th July, 1961, published in the 
Gazette of India Part II — Section 3 (i) , dated 15th July, 1961, as G.S.R. 917, the 
following correction is to he made: — 

Page 986, G.S.R. 917, 3rd line of the notification— 
for the words “Bihar Foodgrains” 
read “Madhya Pradesh Rice”. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING & SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 10 th July 1961 

G.S.R,. 989. — In exercise of tfie powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules in supersession 
of those issued with this Ministry's letter Nos, E.IV-83(2) / 52 and E.IV-49(5) /57 
dated the 12th April, 1956 and lst/3rd April, 1957 respectively regulating the 
method of recruitment to the post of Estimator in the Headquarters Office of the 
Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals, New Delhi, namely: — 

1. Short title. -These rules may be called the Directorate General cf Supplies 
and Disposals (Estimator) Recruitment Rules, 1961. 

2. Application. — These rules shall apply to recruitment to 'posts specified in, 
column 1 of the Schedule annexed hereto. 

3. Number, classification and scale of pay. — The number, classification of the 
post and the scale of pay attached thereto shall he as specified in columns 2, 3 
and 4 of the said Schedule. 

4. Nature of the post, age limit, method of recruitment, etc. — The nature of post, 
the age limit, the method of recruitment and other matters connected therewith 
shall be as specified in columns 5 to 12 of the said Schedule. 

Provided that the age limit specified in column 6 of the said Schedule may be 
relaxed in the case of candidates belonging to the Schedule Castes, Scheduled 
Tribes or displaced persons and other Special categories of persons In accordance 
with the orders of the Government of India from time to time. 



1200 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JETI.Y 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


[Part II 


0. Disqualification. — (a) No person who has more than one wife living or who 
having a spouse living, marries in any case in which such marriage is void by 
reason o f its taking place during the life time of such spouse, shall be eligible for 
appointment to service; and 

(b) No woman whose marriage is void by reason of the husband having a wife 
living at the time of such marriage or who has married a person who has wife 
living at the time of such marriage, shall be eligible for appointment to service; 

Provided that the Central Government may if satisfied that there are special 
grounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the operation of this rule. 



SCHEBUtE 

Recruitment Rules for the posts of Estimator in the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals, Nett Delhi. 


Name 'of Post 

Number of 
posts 

Classification of the 

Post. Whether Scale of Pay 

Gazette! or Ncm- 
Gazetted 

Whether 
Selection or 
Non-Selection 
Post 

Age limit 
for 
direct 
recruit- 
ment 

Educational and other qualifications 
required 

I 

2 

3 4 

5 

6 

7 

Estimator 

6 

General Central Rs. 335 — 15 — 425 

Service. Class Eli, 

Non-gazetted Non- 
Ministerial. 

Non-Selection 

post. 

28 years 

Degree in Engineering or equivalent 
Diploma from recognised insti- 
tution. Previous experience as 
Estimator for at least 2 years 
ot practical training for 3 years 
in a workshop of repute in a 
drawing office. 


Whether age and educational 
qualifications prescribed for 
direct recruitment will apply 
in case of recruitment by pro- 
moion or transfer 

Period of Proha - 
tion, if any 

Method of recruitment i.e., 
whether by direct recruitment or 
by promotion or by transfer and 
percentage of vacancies to be 
filled by the various modes. 

In case of vacancies 
filled by promotion, 
grades/souices from 
which promotion/ 
transfers are to 
be made 

If a DJ.C’ exists for Circumstances in which 
recruitment by pro- UT.S.C. is to be 

motion composition consulted in making 

thereof. recruitment 

8 

9 

10 

II 

12 

13 

Will not apply in case of per- 
manent/Q.P. employees eligible| 
for promotion 

Two yea- 

50 % by direct recruitment 
and 50 % by promotion of 
Technical Assistants who 
have rendered service ir 
the grade format least 3 
years. 

Technical Asstt. 

Departmental Promo- 
tion Committee II 
of the Dte.G.S.&D. 

Does not arise. 





[No. 

ESC. 49(21 ) / 60.] 


R. RAJAGOPALAN, Under Secy. 


Sec. 3 (i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 



1202 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1951/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


IPaju II 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

ERRATUM. 


In the Heading ol Schedule to Notification No. 45/6FF. 39/5/61-Adm. I dated 
12th July, 1961, of the Ministry of Irrigation and Power, published in the Gazette 
•of India Part II— Section 3(i), dated 22nd July, 1961, as G.S.R., 936, the follow- 
ing correction is to be made: — 


Page 1007, Headings in columns 8 and 9— 

For direct recruitment only 


for “Age limit 


read 


Educational and other qualification’s required”. 
For direct recruitment only 


Age limit 


Educational and other qualifications required” 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

ERRATUM 

In Ministry of Railways (Railway Board) notification No. 58-TT/V/29/9/1, 
dated 24th April, 1961, published in the Gazette of India Part II — Section 3 (i) 
■dated 29th April, 1961, as G.S.R. 621, the following Correction is to be made: — 

Page 732, item (fl), 1st line — 

for "Sc ‘then 3' 6" long and 4" wide” 
read “than 3' 6" long and 4" wide” 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

Ne to Delhi, the 24 th July 1961 

G.S.R. 990. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309 of the Constitution, the President makes the following rules to amend the 
General Central Services (Class III and IV Posts in the Central Regional and 
Urban Planning Organisation. New Delhi) Recruitment Rules, 1959, published 
with the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Health 
No, G.S.R. 1230, dated the 21st October, 1959, in the Gazette of India, Part II, 
Section 3(i), dated the 7th November, 1959, namely: — • 

1. These rules may be called the General Central Services (Class III and IV 
Posts in the Central Regional and Urban Planning Organisation, New Delhi) 
Recruitment Second Amendment Rules, 1961, 

2. In the General Central Services (Class III and IV Posts in the Central 
Regional and Urban Planning Organisation, New Delhi) Recruitment Rules, 
.1959, — in the Schedule — - 

(1) in column 4, for the abbreviations and figured against Serial Numbers 

1 to 5 and 7 to 10, the following abbreviations and figures Shall res- 
pectively be substituted, namely: — 

1. Rs. 210 — 10 — 290 — 15 — 320— EB — 15 — 425. 

2. Rs. 130 — 5 — -160—8 — 200 — EB — 8 — 256 — EB — 8 — 280 — 10 — 300, 

3. Rs. 130—5 — 160 — 8 — 200' — EB — 8 — 256 — EB — 8 — 280 — 10—300. 

4. Rs. 110— 3— 131— 4—155— EB— 4— 175— 5— 180. 

5. Rs. 75— 1—85— EB— 2— 95. 

7. Rs, 70— 1—80— EB— 1—85. 

8. Rs. 70— 1—80— EB— 1—85. 

9. Rs. 70— 1—80— EB— 1—85. 

10. R S . 70— 1—80— EB— 1—85. 

(2) for the word "employees” in column 6 against Serial No. 4, the word 

“candidates" shall be substituted. 


[No. F. 13-16/59-LSG.] 
A. K. DAR, Under Secy, 



1203 


Sec. 5p)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JUI.Y 29, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 20 th July 1961 

G.S.R. 991. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309 of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules for 
regulating the recruitment to Class III and Class IV posts in the Film Institute 
of India, Poona, namely: — 

1. Short title, — These rules may be called the Film Institute of India, Class 
III and Class IV Posts) Recruitment Rules, 1961. 

2. Application. — These rules shall apply for recruitment to the posts specified 
in column 2 of the Schedule to these rules. 

3. Classification and scale of pay. — The classification of the posts and the scales 
of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in columns 3 and 4 of the said 
Schedule. 

4. Nature, method of recruitment, age limit and qualifications, etc. — The nature 
of the posts, method of recruitment, age limit, qualifications and other matters 
connected therewith shall be as specified in columns 5 to 12 of the aforesaid 
Schedule: 

(1) Provided that the age limits specified in column 9 of the said Schedule 
may be relaxed in the case of candidates belonging to the Scheduled 
Castes, Scheduled Tribes or displaced persons and other special cate- 

? ories In accordance with the general instructions issued by the 
Central Government from time to time; 

(2) Provided further that the educational and other qualifications specified 
in columns 10, 11 and 12 of the said Schedule may be relaxed by the 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting at their discretion in the 
case of a candidate considered otherwise suitable for appointment to 
a post specified in column 2 of the aforesaid Schedule; 

(3) Provided also that the posts required to be filled by promotion or 
transfer may be filled by direct recruitment, if no suitable candidate 
is available for appointment thereto by promotion or transfer, as the 
case may be. 

S. Probation. — All persons appointed whether by direct recruitment or other- 
wise to the posts specified in column 2 of the aforesaid Schedule shall be on 
probation for a period of two years, 

0. Disqualification. — (a) No person who has more than one wife living or who 
having a spouse living, marries in any case in which such marriage is void by 
reason of its taking place during the life time of such spouse, shall be eligible 
for appointment to service; and 

(b) no woman wh®e marriage is void by reasoh of the husband having a wife 
living at the time of such marriage or who has married a person who has a wife 
living at the time of such marriage, shall be eligible for appointment to service: 

Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that there are special 
grounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the operation of this rule. 



Schedule 


S. 

No. 


Particulars of the post 


Method of recrujtipmr Qualifications etc. for direct 
and percentage of vacancies recruitment 

to be filled by 


Qualifications etc., for recruitment 
by promotion,' transfer 


Name of the post Classification, Scale of pay Direct Promotion 

character and of the post rcc- 

status of the ' ruit- Selec- Senio- 

post ment tion rity 

cum- 

fitness 


Trans- Age Educational and other 
fer limits qualifications 
required 


■Whether age 
and educational 
qualifications 


for direct 
cruitment 
apply in 
case of 
Hutment 
promotion trans- 
fer 


re- 

will 

the 

rec- 

bv 


Grades/sonrces from 
which pro 
motion/transfer is 
to be made 


io 


ii 


I Superintendent Class III 

Non-Gazet- 
ted Minis- 
erial. 


Rs. 350—20 — NiL 

450—25—475 


100% Nil. Nil- Between 
21 — 24 
years. 


2 Research As- 
sistant (Junior) 


Class III 
Non-Gazet- 
ted Non- 
Ministeriab 


Rs. 210 — 10 — 100% Nil. Nil, Nil. Between 
290—15— 19-23 

320 — EB — years, 

15—42?. 


Essential 

(i) intermediate or 
Senior Cambridge 
or Higher Secon- 
dary or equivalent, 
(a) About three 
years’ experience 
in a Government 
Office in a respon- 
sible capacity; and 
(in) Knowledge of 
Government, rule 
and regulations. 


Essential 

(*) Intermediate or 
Senior Cambridge 
or Higher Secon- 
dary or equiva- 
lent; and 


Will not apply 
in the case of 
permanent or 
quasi-perma- 
nent emplo- 
yees. In the 
case of tempo- 
rary employees, 
only educa- 
tional qualifica- 
tions will apply. 


Not applicable 


From amongst 
Upper Division 
Clerks and Store- 
keepers in the 
Film Institute 
of India, who 
have put in at 
least five years’ 
service in that 
grade, failing 
which from 

amongst the 

Head Clerks in 
the Films Divi- 
sion and the 
Central Board 
of Film Censors. 

Not applicable. 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA ; JULY 29, 1961 j SRAVANA 7, 1883 [Part II 



3 Reference As- Class III Rs. 210 — 10 — 100% Nil Nil Nil 

sistant. Nco-Gazet- 290—15 — 320 

ted Non- — EB — 1 5 — 

Ministerial. 425. 


4 CameraAssis- Class IIINon- Rs.210— 10— 100% Nil Nil Nil 
tant. Gazetted 290 — EB— 15 — 

Non-Minis- 320 

terial. 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 1883 




5 Librarian 


Class III 
Non-Gazetted 
Non-Minis- 
terial. 



290 — 15 — 320 


100% 


Nil Nil Nil 


6 Editing Class III Rs. 150 — 5 — Nil Nil 100% Nil 

Assistant . Non-Gazetted 160 — 8 — 216 

Non-Minis- 
terial. 


7 UpperDivi- Class III Rs. 130— 5 — Nil 100% Nil Nil 
sion Clerk. Non-Gazetted 16& — 8 — 

Ministerial 200 — EB — 8 — 

256 — EB — 8 — 

— 280 — 10 — 

300 


9 10 11 12 


Desirable 


(i) A diploma in 
motion picture 
photography from 
a recognised insti- 
tute. - 

Between Essential 

19—23 

years (i) Matriculation of 
a recognised Uni- 
versity or equi- 
valent; and 
(n) Experience of 
working in a lib- 
rary for three years. 
Desirable 

(i) Diploma in Lib- 
rary Science. 

Between Essential 

19 — 23 

years (t) Matriculation of 

a recognised Uni- 
versity or equiva- 
lent; and 

(it) At least three 
years’ experience of 
editing of motion 
picture films. 

Between Essential 

18 — 21 

years (i) Intermediate or 

Senior Cambridge 
or Higher Second- 
ary or equivalent. 


Not applicable Not applicable. 


No. By promotion, from 

amongst the Join- 
ers in the Film 
Institute of India 
and the Films Di- 
vision , who have 
put in at least 
three years’ 

service in that 
grade. 


Willr.ot apply From amongst Lo- 
in the case of wer Division 
permanent or Clerksin the Film 

quasi-perma- Institute of India, 

nent employees, whohaveputin at 

In the case of least three years’ 


I 


1206 the GAZETTE or INDIA rjULY 29, I9GI/SRAVANA 7, 1883 [Part II 



* Steno- Glass III Rs. 130—5— 100% Nil Nil Nil 

•grapher. Non-Gazetted 160 — S — 

Ministerial 200 — EB — 8 — 

256 — EB — 8 — 

280 — 10 — -300 


9 Recording Class III Rs. 150— 5 — 100% Nil Nil Nil 

Assistant. No' -Gazetted 160 — 8—216 
Non-Minis- 
ter ial. 


temporaryem - service in that 9 
pioyees, only grade, 
educational 

qualifications : 

will apply. 

Between Essential Not applicable Not applicable 

18 — 25 

years (t) Matriculation of l 

a recognised Uni- 
versity or equiva- 1 

lent; and 

(ft) Speed of a t least 

too words per mill- 1 

Lite in shorthand 
and 40 words per 
minute in typing 

Desirable 

(t) Previous exper- ! 

ience as a Steno- 1 

grapher in a com- 
mercial concern or 
a Governmer t 
Office. _ 

Between Essential Not ipplicable N01 applicable 

19 — 23 

ye ars (i) M atr icu larion of a j 

recognised Univer- 
sity or equivalent. 

(if) A diploma in 
Sound Recording 
from a recognised 
institute. 

(m) At least two 1 

years’ experience 

as an Assistant Re- | 

cordist in a film 

studio. 


Sec. 5 (i)] THE GA/ETTE OF INDIA: JULY 29, 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 1883 120) 



2 3 45678 


io Photo Assis- Class III Rs. 150 — 5 — 100 % Nil Nil Nil 
tant. Non-Gazetted 180 

Non-Minis- 
torial 


II Projectionist- ClassIII Rs.210 — 10 — 100% Nil Nil Nil 

cum- Librarian Non -Gazetted 290— EB— -15— 

Non-Minis- 320 
terial. 



9 


10 


11 


12 


Between Essential Not applicable Not applicable 

19—23 

years (i) Matriculation of 
a recognised Uni- 
versity or equiva- 
lent. 

(it) At least two 
year’s experience 
as a Still Photo- 
grapher in a photo 
studio. 

Between Essential Not applicable Not applicable 

19—25 

years (t) Matriculation of 
a recognised Uni- 
versity or equiva- 
lent. 

(it) A diploma or 
certificate or licence 
in Cinema Pro- 
jection from a 
competent authority. 

<m) At least five 
years’ experience 
as a Projection 
Room Operator in 
a commercial Cine- 
ma house or a 
Government orga- 
nisation. 

Desirable 

(i) Fair knowledge 
of film library or 
film ediric g work. 


;I208 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 1888 [Part II 




14 Mechanic 


Between Essential "Will not apply From amongst 

21 — 24 (i) Intermediate or in the case of the Lower Ehvi- 

years Senior Cambri- permanent or sion Clerks in 

dge or Higher quasi permanent the Film Institute 

Secondary, or employees. In of India, who 

equivalent. the case of have put in at 

(h) At least three temporary emp- least three years’ 

years’ experience loyees only service in that 

as a store-keeper educational grade, 

in a Government qualifications 

office or in a will apply, 

commercial con- 
cern. 

Between Essential Not applicable Not applicable. 

19 — 23 (t) Matriculation of 

years. a recognised Uni- 

versity or equi- 
valent; and 
(a) At least two 
years’ experience 
as a film joiner 
in a film studio. 

Between Essential Not applicable Not applicable 

19 — 23 Either : A certificate 

years of competency ot 

a diploma from a 
recognised insti- 
tute for Wireman 
Mechanic or 

Electrician or 

Fitter Mechanic, 
with at least two 
years’ experience 
in a responsible 
workshop in one 
of the following 
branches : 

(1) Lathe work 

(2) Carpentary 

(3) ElectricalWiring, 

Soldering etc. 



Sec. 3 ( 1)1 THL GAZLTLe OF INblA: JULY 29 , 1961 /SRAVANA 1 , 18 SS 


Class IIINon- Rs. 125 — 3 — ioo% Nil Nil Nil 
Gazetted 131 — 4—155 

Non-Mini s- 
terial. 


15 Electrician 


9 10 II 12 

(4) Fitting and 
Plumbing 

(5) Internal Com- 


bustion Engines 

(6) Air Conditioning 
Plants, 

OR 

Five years’ skilled 
working experience 
in two or more of 
the followingbran- 
ches : 

(1) Lathe Work 

(2) Carpentry 

(3) Electrical 
Wiring, Soldering 
etc, 

(4) Fitting and 
Plumbing 

(5) Internal Com- 
bustion Engines 

(6) Air conditioning 
Plants. 

Between Essential 
19-23 (i) Must possess a 

years Grade I Wire- 

man’s licence 
from a competent 
authority ; and 

(ii) At least two years’ 
experience as an 
electrician in a 
film studio or an 
industrial under- 
taking. 


Not applicable. Not applicable. 


I 210 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, I9fil /SRAVANA *1, l6s4 [Part U 



Desirable 


16 LowerDivi- Class III Rs. no — 3 — 100% Nil Nil 

si on Clerk. Non- 131 — 4 — 155 

Gazetted — EB— -4 — 

Ministerial. 175 — 5 — 180. 


(i) Matriculation of 
a recognised 
University or 
equivalent. 

Nil Between Essential Not applicable. Not applicable. 

18-21 (f) Matriculation f of 

years. a recognised Uni- 
versity or equiva- 
lent ; and 

(ii) Knowledge of 
typewriting at a 
minimum speed 
of 30 words per 
minute. 

Desirable 

(*) Previous ex- 
perience as a clerk 
in a Government 
Office or a com- 
mercial concern 
of repute ; and 


17 Caretaker . Class ELI Non- Rs. 150 — 10— Kxr% Nd Ni' Nil 
Gazetted 25a 
Non- 

MinisteriaL 


(n) Knowledge of 
Hindi typewriting. 

Below Essential'. Not applicable. * Not applicable. 

40 years. 

(0 Matriculation of 
a recognised Uni- 
versity or equiva- 
lent. 

(is) At least 5 years 
ocperience of look- 
ing after security 
arrangements, ma- 
nagement of build- 
ings, garden and 
supervision of 
mazdoor, etc. 

in a big orga- 
nisation. 


Sec. 8 (i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 188S 


O) (l) (3) 


( 4 ) ( 5 ) ( 6 ) ( 7 ) ( 8 ) (9) <») (H) ( 13 ) 


18 Set Assistant. Class III Rs. 150 — 5— 100% Nil N3 
Noii-gazetted 175-6 — 205. 

Non- 

Minis teriaL 


19 Moulder Class II H Rs. 125—3— ioo%|Nfl N3 

Non-Gazetted 131-4-155. 

Non-Ministerial, 


Nil 


B etween 

19—23 


Nil 


Between 

*9—23 

years. 


Ttesbahle : — 

(i) Degree of a re- 
cognised Univer- 
sity. (preference 
■will "be given to 
Ex-Army Pre- 
sonnel). 

Essential ; — 

(i) Matriculalicm of a Not applicable. Not applicable. 

'recognised Uni- 
versity or equiva- 
lent ; and 

^a) Experience in 
Art Department 
of a film studio ; 

Destraale : — 

(i) Certificate in 
draughtsmanship ; 

(n) "Knowledge of 
and experience in 
drawing and 

draughtsmanship; and 
(«*) Knowledge of 
moulding, car- 
pentry and paint- 
ing- 

EssenUal ■ 


Not applicable. | Not applicable. 


<0 Ability to read 
and write 'Hindi 
and/or English 
with ease ;aod 
(a) At least three 
years’ experience 
as a moulder. 

DessrabU : 

(0 Certificate or dip- 
loma intnonlding ; 
and 

(a) Experience in a 
■film studio. 


M 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29. 1961 ySRAVANA 7. 1888 [Part n 



20 Carpenter 


2i Film Painter 


22 Driver 


Class III Rs. no — 3 — NL 100% Nil 
Non-Gazetted 13 1. 

Non- Ministerial . 


Nil Between Essential : No. 

19 — 23 (0 Ability to read 

yeas. and write Hindi 

and or English 
with ease ; and 


{-a) At least 2 years’ 
experience as a 
-carpenter m the 
settings depart- 
ment of a Fibn 
studio or a fttmish- 
ing concern. 


From amongst the 
Assistant Car- 
penters in the 
F ilm institute 
of India who 
have put in at 
least three years’ 
service in the 
grade. , 


Class III Rs. no — 3 — 100% Nil Nd Nil Below Essential : Not applicable. Not applicable. 

Non-Gazetted 131 — 4—143 25 year* <0 Middle School 

Non-Ministe- EB — 4 — 155. Standard pass ; 

rial. 

(a) Ability to read 
and write Hindi 
and English with 
ease ;and 

<m) At least five 
years’ experience 
in background 
screen painting, 

•special effects, hand 
mid spray paint- 
ing, lettering in all 
major Indian lan- 
guages as well as 
English, stencil 
drawing and cut- 
ting for sets in a 
film studio or a 
decorating firm. 


Class III Rs. no— 3 — 100% Nil Nil N3 
Non-Gazetted 131-4-139. 

Non- 

Ministerial. 


Below Essential : — Not applicable. Not applicable. 

30 yens, (i) Should be abk to 
read and write 
Hindi and/or Eng- 
lish with ease ; 


I 


Sec. 3 (i)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 19G1 /SRAVANA 7, 1883 



23 Film Checker Class IV R*. 95- 
N on- Gazetted. no. 


(a) Must possess a 
licence for driving 
heavy motor vehi- 
cles ; and 

(of) Should have not 
less than three 
years’ experience 
as a driver, prefer- 
ably with know- 
ledge of Poona.. 
Bombay City and 
suburbs . 

Desirable : 

(l) Experience as a 
motor Mechanic; 
and 

(ft) Middle School 
Standard. 

N.B. — preference 
will be given to 
ex-army personnel. 

Below 25 Essential : 
years. 

(f) Middle School 
Standard ; 

(ft) Working know- 
ledge of English 
and/or Hindi, and 

(m) Experience of 
film checking work. 


24 Boom Man, . Class IV Rs. 95 — 3— Nil 100% Nil Nil Below Essential : 
Non-Gazetted. no. 25 years. 


Not applicable. Not applicable. 


(0 Middle School 
Standard ; 

(ft) Should have a 
working knowledge 
of English and 'or 
Hindi ; and 


From amongst the 
Studio Boys in 
the Film Insti- 
tute of India and 
the Films Divi- 
sion who have put 
in at least seven 
years’ service in 
that grade. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 29, 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 1888 [Part II 




Nit Below 
25 years 


(m) Must have 
worked as a 
Boom Man in 
a film studio 
of re puts. 


25 Junior Ges- Class TV Rs. So — -I — 85 — ■ Nil 100% Nil 
teener Ope- Non-Gazetted 2 — 95 — E.B. 
rater. — 3 — 110 


Essential No 

(!) Middle School 
Standard; and 
(a) Previous ex- 
perience as a Ges- 
tetner Operator. 


26 Daftiy 


Class IV Rs. 75 — 1 — 85 — Nifl NB 
Non-Gazetted EB — 2 — 95 


100% Nil Below 25 Essential No 

years (t) Middle School 
Standard. 


27 Assistant 
Carpenter 


28 Peon 

29 Studio Boy 


Class IV Rs. 75—1—85— 100% Nil Nil Nil 
Non-Gazetted EB — 2 — 95 


Class IV Rs. 70 — 1 — 80 — 
Non-Gazetted EB — 1 — 85 

100% Nil' 

ND 

N 3 

Class IV Rs. 70 — 1 — 80— 
Non-Gazetted EB — 1—85 

- 100% Nil 

Nfi 

Nil 


Below 25 Essential Not applicable 

years ( i ) At least 2 

years’ expe- 
rience as a car- 
penter in the 

settings depart- 
ment of a film 
studio or a 
famishing con- 
cern. 

Below 25 Essen tia l Not applicable 

Years (0 Middle School 

Standard. 

Below 25 Essential Not applicable 

years (0 Middle School 

Standard ; and 


From amongst 
the Daftries 

in the Him 

Institute of India 
who have pot in 
at least three 
years’ service 
in that grade. 

From amongst 
the Peons in 
the Film Ins- 
titute of India 
who have put 
in at least 
three years’ 
service in that 
grade. 

Not applicable 


Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 


Sac. 3 (1)1 THE GAZETTE OP INblA ; JULY 29, l9fil /SftAVANA 7, 1883 ^5 



30 Mali 


Chowkidar 


Class IV 
Non-Ga2etted 


Class IV 
Non- Gazetted 


KK — 1—85 


Below 25 
years. 


(if) Should have 
at least one 
years’ experien- 
ce of working 
as a Studio 
Boy in a film 
studio of re- 
pute. 

Essential 

(i) At least one 
years’ experien- 
ce of working 
as a Mali in a 
nursery or a gar- 
den. 


EB — 1 — 85 


100% Nil Nil Nil Below 25 Essential 


years 

Relaxa- 

(0 Should 

have 

ble in 

experience 

of 

the case 

working as a 

of ex- 

watchman 

in a 

Army 

commercial 

con- 

and ex- 

cera of repute. 

Police- 

a local body 

or a 

persortnel 

Government 


to the 

office for 

at 

extent 

least six months. 

of their 

Preference 

will 

service in 

be given to 

ex- 

the Anrry 

Army and 

ex- 

or Police 

Police personnel. 

as the 



case may 
be. 




Not applicable Not applicable 


Not applicable Not applicable 


32 Farash 


Class IV 
Non- Gazetted 


EB — 1- — 85 


100% Nil Nil Nil Below 25 Essetuial 


Should have expe- 
rience of working 
as a Farash in 


Not applicable Not appficabli 


GAZETt£ OF INbtA : JtjLV 29, 1961 /SltAVANA 7, 188S [Pakt II 




Not applicable Not applicable 


a Commercial con- 
cern of repute, 
a local body 
or a Government 
office. 


Nil Below 25 Essential 

years. Experience of 

working as a 
Sweeper in a 
commercial con- 
cern of repute 
or a Government 
office or a local 
body. 

Nil Below 25 Essential Not applicable 

years. Should have 

at least one 

years’ experience 
a s a deaner in a 
transport organi- 
sation. 


Not applicable 


[N0.1/13/60-FL] 

SHRI BHAGWAN, under secy. 


Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: JULY 29, 1961 /SRAVANA 7, 1883 



I2lS the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY U9, 1961/SRAVANA 7, 1883 [Part n-SEC. 3 (i)] 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 24 th July 1901 

G.S.R, 992. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5, read with sub- 
section (1) of section 7, of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952, (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government hereby makes the following Scheme further to amend the 
Employees’ Provident Funds Scheme, 1952, namely: — 

1. This Scheme may be called the Employees’ Provident Funds (Fifth Amend- 
ment) Scheme, 1901. 

2. In the Employees’ Provident Funds Scheme, 1952, in clause (b) of sub-para- 
graph (3) of paragraph 1, sub-clause (xix) shall be renumbered as sub-clause (xx) 
thereof and the following shall be inserted as sub-clause (xix), namely: — 

”(xlx) as respects the establishments covered by the notification of the 
Government of India In the Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No. G,S,R, 827 dated the 19th June, 1901. come into force on the 
31st day of July, 1961”. 

[No. PF. 11-3(91/58.] 


New Delhi, the 29 th July 1901 

G.S.R. 993. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that a provident 
fund scheme should be framed under the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 19&2, 
(19 of 1952), in respect of the employees of the leather and leather products 
Industry; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-scction (1) of 
section 4 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby directs that with effect 
from the 31st August, 1961, the said industry shall be added to Schedule I of the 
said Act. 

[No. PF. 11-4(8) /50.] 

P. D. GAIHA, Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERA i, MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELlfl AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1961 



