रजिस्ट्री संजी. 222 . 


REGISTERED NO . D. 222 


प 


भारतकायजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


31/ 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


. . 


. 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


सं० 38 ] 

नई दिल्ली, शनिवार, सितम्बर 18, 1971/ भाद्र 27, 1893 
No. 38 ) NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/ BHADRA 27, 1893 

- - 
इस भाग में भिन्न पळ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह प्रलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके 
Separate paging is given to thig Part in order that it may be filed 

As a separate complladon 


___ भाग II - खण्ड 3 - --उपलड ( ii ) 

PART II — Section 3 – Sub -section ( 1 ) 
( रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासन को छोड़कर ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किये गए विधिक मावेश और अधिसूचनाएं । 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories ) 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 

(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1971 
S . O . 3409 , - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that the minimum 
rates of wages should be fixed under the Minimum Wages Act , 1948 (11 of 1948 ) 
in respect of employment in Graphite mines covered under the Mines Act, 1952 
( 35 of 1952 ) ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention to add the said 
employment to Part I of the Schedule to the said Act . 

Any suggestions or objections which may be received from any person in res 
pect of the said addition on or before the 15th December, 1971 will be considered 
by the Central Government. 

[LWI-I- 2 ( 23 ) / 67 - WE ( MW ) .] 
श्रम, र जगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , अस्त 1971 
का० प्रा० 3409 - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि खान अधिनियम , 
1952 ( 1952 का 35 ) के अन्तर्गत आने वाली ग्राफाइट खानों में नियोजन के बारे में न्यूनतम 

( 4787 ) 


4788 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 1893 PAT L . 


मजदूरी अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 11 ) के अधीन मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दरें नियत की 
जानी चाहिये । 


प्रतः प्रब , उक्त अधिनियम , की धारा 27 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार, उक्त अधिनियम , की अनुसूची के भाग 1 में मत मियोजन को जोड़ने अपने प्राशय 
की सूचना ; एतवद्वारा देती है । 

उक्त जोड़ के सम्बन्ध में किसी भी व्यक्ति से 15 - 12 - 1971 को या पूर्व प्राप्त 
सुझावों या आक्षेपों पर केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा विचार किया जाएगा । 

[सं० एल० उम्ल्यू.० आई० 1- 2 ( 23 )/ 67 डब्लू ई० ( एम० उम्लू ] 

New Delhi , the 1st September 1971 
8 . 0 . 3410 . — Whereas the Central Government is of the oplølon that the mini 
mum rates of wages should be fixed under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 
1948 ) in respect of employment in Ochre mines covered under the Mines Act, 
1952 ( 35 of 1952) ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention to add the said 
employment to Part I of the Schedule to the said Act. 

Any suggestions or objections which may be recelved from any person in 
respect of the said addition on or before the 30th December, 1871 will be 
considered by the Central Government. 

[ No. LWI -I- 2 (37 ) / 87 - WE( MW.) ] 

HANS RAJ CHHABRA, Under Secy , 
नई दिल्ली, 1 सितम्बर 1971 


का०मा० 3410. - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की यह राय है कि खान अधिनियम , 1982 
( 1952 का 35 ) के अन्तर्गत पाने वाली गैरिफ खानों में नियोजन की बाबत मजदूरी की न्यूनतम 
दरें म्यूनतम मजदूरी अधिनियम, 1948 ( 1948 का 11 ) के अधीन नियत की जानी 

प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 27 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एतदद्वारा उक्त अधिनियम की अनुसूची के भाग 1 में उक्त नियोजन को जोड़ने के अपने प्राशय 
की सूचमा देती है । 

उक्त जोड़ने के बारे में जो सुझाव या आक्षेप किसी व्यक्ति से 30 दिसम्बर, 1971 को या 
उससे पूर्व प्राप्त होंगे उन पर केन्द्रीय सरकार विचार करेगी । 
[सं० एल० डब्लू० आई० 1 -2( 37 ) 67 -डब्ल्यू ई० ( एम० डब्ल्य )] 

हंस राज छाबड़ा, अवर सचिव । 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1971 
S . O . 3411 — Whereas the Central Government, having been satisfied that the 
public interest so required had , in pursuance of the provisions of sub - clause (vi) 
of clause ( n ) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) decla 
red by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Emp 
loyment and Rehabilllation ( Department of Labour and Enployment) No. SO . 947 
dated the 11th February , 1971 , service in the pyrites mining Industry , to be a 
public utility service for the purposes of the said Act, for a period of six months 
from the 22nd February , 1971; 


SEC. 3 ( ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27, 1893 4789 


And whereas the Central Government is of opinion that public interest requires 
extension of the said period by a further period of six months ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub 
clause ( vi ) of clause ( n ) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby declares the said service to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period of six months 
from the 22nd August , 1971 . 

[ No, F . S. 11025 / 20 / 71 -LRI .] 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 
नई दिल्ली , 4 अगस्त , 1971 


का० मा० 3411. - -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार ने , यह समाधान हो जाने पर कि 
लोक हित में एस। अपेक्षित है , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की 
धारा 2 और पूनर्वास के खंड ( ङ ) के उपखंड ( 6 ) के उपबंधों के अनुसरण में , भारत 
सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 
947, तारीख 11 फरवरी, 1971 द्वारा पाइराइट्स खनन उद्योग में सेवा को उक्त अधिनियम 
के प्रयोजनों के लिये 22 फरवरी , 1971 मे छ: मास की कालावधि के लिये लोक उपयोगी सेवा 
घोषित किया था ; 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि लोक हित में उक्त कालावधि का 6 मास की 
और कालाविधि के लिये बढ़ाया जाना अपेक्षित है ; 

अत : अब औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14) की धारा 2 के खंड 
( ब ) के उपखड ( 6 ) के परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतदद्वारा उक्त सेवा को उक्त अधिनियम के प्रयोजनों के लिये 22 अगस्त , 1971 से 6 
मास की और कालावधि के लिये लोक उपयोगी सेवा घोषित करती है । 

[ सं० फा० 110 25/ 20/ 71 एल० आर० 1 ] 

New Delhi, the 10th August , 1971 
5 . O . 3412. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is expedient 
in the public interest to add the " Securlty Paper Mill, Hoshangabad " to the First 
Schedule to the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) ; 
___ Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- section ( 1 ) of section 
40 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
adds the following item to the First Schedule to the sald Act , after item 20 thereot , 
namely : - -- 
" 21. Security Paper Mill, Hoshangabad. " 

[ No. F . S. 11025 / 18 / 71 -LR.I.] 
नई दिल्ली , 10 अगस्त 1971 


का०मा० 341 2.--..-यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह राय है कि प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम, 1947 
( 1947 का 14 ) की प्रथम अनुसूची में सिक्योरिटी पेपर मिल , होशंगाबाद को जोड़ना लोकहित में 
ममीचीन है । 

अत पब, औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम 1947 ( 1947 का 1 4 ) की धारा 40 को उपधारा 
( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्दीय सरकार उक्त प्रधिनिया की प्रथम अनुसूची में , 
उसकी मर 24 के पश्चात एतद द्वारा निम्नलिखित मद जोड़नी है अर्थात् : - - 
". . सिक्योरिटी पेपर मिल. शिगाबाद । 

[स० फा० 11025/ 18/ 71 -एल०पार०-1 ] 


4790 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 /BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II 


New Delhi, the 4th September 1971 
S . O . 3413 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur in the industrial dispute bet - - 
ween the employers in relation to the Central Bank of India and their workmen . 
which was received by the Central Government on the 2nd September , 1971. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-CUM -LABOUR COURT, 

JABALPUR 

CASE NO. C .G . I. T . / LC ( R ) ( 15 ) / 71, 
PRESENT : 
Justice Shri M . Chandra , Presiding Officer, 

Dated , the August 12 , 1971 
PARTIES : 

Central Bank of India 

Vs. 
Their workman 


APPEARANCES : 

For the employers — Shri Suryodaya Trivedi, Advocate, 
For the workman - Shri M . L . Razdan , General Secretary . 

AWARD 
By an Order No. 23 / 71 / 69 / LR - III, dated the 12th January , 1970 , the Central 
Government referred the following industrial dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Trlbunal, Delhi under Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 : — 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of Central Bank of India , Parliament Street , 

New Delhi was justified in terminating the services of Shri Reoti 
Saran Aggarwal, Assistant Cashier, Delhi Shahdara Branch with effect 

from the 20th June, 1966 ? If not , to what relief is he entitled ? " 
For the ends of justice and convenience of parties , the case was transferred 
to Shri P . N . Thukral, Presiding Officer , Industrial Tribunal, Faridabad , by an 
Order No. 23 / 71 / 69 /LR - III , dated the 3rd September, 1970 . Thereafter by an 
Order No . 23 / 71 / 69 / LR - III, dated the 15th April, 1971, the case was transferred to 
this Tribunal, since the gervices of Shri P . N . Thukral, Presiding Officer , Faridabad 
were no longer available . 

The written statements have already been filed by the parties. 

Shri Reoti Saran Aggarwal was employed in the service of Central Bank of 
Indla on 16th January , 1950 as an Assistant Cashier and was posted as Assistant 
Cashier in Delhi- Shahdara Branch of the Bank during the year 1965 . He was 
charge - sheeted by the Bank on 18th August , 1965. There were two charges against 
him . The first charge was that he had snatched the register from Mr. Grover 
and scored off the entries pertaining to the particulars of his own salary and also 
wrote a remark on page No . 5 of the register that " as the emoluments violated 
the terms of the Award , therefore , any amount of adjustment is illegal without his 
acceptance." It was further alleged that he made a remark in the muster roll 
also saying that was the agent is not ready to adjust the amount of his increment 
due on 31st March , 1965 , he requested for not crediting any kind of remuneration 
in his name in any account which he is entitled automatic , as per Award . This 
practice of the Agent totally violated the terms of the Award." The act of 
snatching the salary register from Mr. Grover , scoring off the entries in the 
salary register of the Bank and making extraneous remarks in the salary register 
and muster roll of the Bank was said to be an act of gross misconduct on the 
workman s part and amounted to unauthorised tampering with the records of the 
Bank , The second charge was that on 19th May, 1965 at about 9 .50 a . m . Shri 
Mam Chand Jain , the permanent T / R of Delhi- Shahdara Branch , reported that 
he had delivered an application for one day s casual leave and had handed over 
the keys of tho strong room and cash safe to Shri Reoti Saran Aggarwal, who was 
Present in the office at that time. At about 10 a . m . the sub - Agent went to the 
cash [ )epartment and asked Mr Aggarwal to open the strong room , but Shri 
Aggarvral refused to open it on certain Aimsy grounds stating that he was not 


Sec. 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 /BHADRA 27, 1893 4791 


prepared to act as T / R for one day in vacancy of the permanent T / R Mr. Mam 
Chand Jain , who took leave for 68 days. When the sub -Agent advised Mr. 
Aggarwal to allow to other Assistant Cashier, Shri Suresh Chand , to open the 
· strong room , Mr, Aggarwal objected to it also . The sub -Agent referred the matter 
to the Chief Agenti on telephone and the Chief Agent also spoke to Mr. Aggarwal 
on telephone to open the strong room without any delay, but Shri Agrarwal dig 
regarded and denied his lawfui orders . In the absence of till -money and tokeng, 
the once had to make payment of the cheques presented by the customer from 
out of the cash receipts from the public . The cash vault was finally opened by 
Mr. Aggarwal after receiving telephonic instructions from Shri L Sheel Chandra , 

Treasurer , at about 11- 55 a .m . The act of Shri Aggarwal in refusing to open the 
· strong room In spite of the instructions from the gub -Agent and the Chief Agent 
was said to be an act of disobedience of a grave nature causing much inconveni 
ence and great disruption in the smooth functioning of the Branch , 


The workman s case was that whenever the T / R was absent, the cashier Junior 
to Shri Aggarwal in service was called upon to officiate as T / R . On 19th May , 
1965 in the abanece of T / R for a day Delhi Shahdara branch Agent first tried 
to And out the cashier from some other local offices of the Bank to officiate as 
T / R , but on failure to get any such cashier the Agent asked Shri Aggarwal tu 
officiate as T / R . Shri Aggarwal became apprehensive of the sudden change in the 
previous practice and requested the Agent to pass written orders and the Agent 
refused to do so, Shri Aggarwal thereupon requested the Agent to accept the 
responsibility of the cash . The branch Agent refused to accept the responsibility . 
When the Chief Agent brought this fact to the notice of the Bank s Contractor 
Cashier , he accepted the responsibility of the cash and Shri Aggarwal immediately 
- opened the cash safe . 


The enquiry was conducted and the Enquiry Officer relying on an alleged 
Jetter of apology held Shri Aggarwal guilty of both the charges . On 20th June. 
1966 Shri Aggarwal was discharged from seryice , Shri Aggarwal s contention was 
that he had tendered an apology on the assurance of Shri F . C . Cooper , the 
General Manager of the Bank that it would be seen that he was not punished 
at all and that Shri Aggarwal and the Union were both surprised when that very 
apology was made the basis for finally holding Shri Aggarwal guilty . According 
to Shri Aggarwal thc apology was not voluntarily tendered but was tendered on 
the basis of the definite promise given to the representatives of the union by 
Shri Cooper , the then General Manager . The authority of the Chief Agent to 
issue the charge- sheet and his competence to appoint the Enquiry Omcer have 
been challenged and the entire action of the Bank was alleged to be Illegal . It 
was further contended that the Enquiry Officer had relled on the past record of 
Shri Aggarwal while awarding the final punishment and that as Shri Aggarwal 
had not been given even a show - cause notice in respect of the past record the 
:: action was Improper. According to Shri Aggarwal the charges levelled against 
him did not constitute mis -conduct and he was not liable to be discharged from 
service, He alleges that in any event the punishment imposed is too severe and 
-completely out of proportion to the charges levelled against him and that the 
punishment itself shows that the management acted with mala fide intentions and 
victimised him on account of his trade union activities . 


The management raised the preliminary objections that in an application under 
-- Section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) the same matter had been agitated and the Tribunal had approv 

ed the action of the Bank in discharging the petitioner from the Bank s service . 
- On merlts the management reiterated that the action of Shri Aggarwal in enatch 

ing the register and making extraneous unauthorised entries amounted to an 
: act of gross -misconduct . The refugal on the part of Shri Reoti Saran Aggarwa ) 

to open the strong room in spite of the instructions of the sub - Agent and the 
· Chief Agent was again alleged to be an act of disobedience of a grave nature and 

another act of gross -misconduct on Sari Aggarwal s part . It was further alleged 
. by the management that Mr. Daver , Enquiry Officer was duly authorised by the 
competent authority , Mr. Bhalla, the Chief Agent to make an enquiry. These 
allegations were denied by the workman , 

When the case was transferred to this Tribunal the parties were given time 
" by this Tribunal to Ale rejoinders, and the case was fixed today fur issues . 


The parties have, however , settled the matter amicably and Aled and verifed 
a settlement. The settlement provides for reinstatement of Shri Reoti Şaran 
Aggarwal with effect from 1st September , 1971 and fixation of his basic pay to be 
made as if he had continued to be in Bank s service . He would not , however, be 
entitled under the Settlement, to any arrears of pny and allowances and bonus, 


4792 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 /BHADRA 27 , 1893 (PART 11 - - 


etc ., and to any contributions towards provident fund from the date of his dis 
charge to the date of his reinstatement. The period from the date of discharge 
of Aggarwal to the date of his reinstatement is to be treated as leave on loss 
of pay and all other benefits but it is to be accounted for the purposes of gratuity 
and seniority for promotion . For two years from the date of hils reinstatement 
he will have no claim for promotion on the basis of length of his service. On 
reinstatement he is to be posted as Assistant Cashier - cum -Godown Keeper in any 
office in Delhi Group , 

These terms are clearly advantageous and beneficial to Shri Reoti Saran 
Aggarwal in view of the fact that he is being reinstated with offect from 1st 
September, 1971 and is also being treated as having continued in the Bank s 
service for the puporses of notional increments , gratuity and seniority for promo 
tion . He is also to get ex -gratia benfit of Rs. 3, 000 / - to enable him to get over the 
debts incurred by him . 

Shri Aggarwal on his part expressed regret for his past conduct , assures proper 
behaviour and obedience to his superiors and also proper discharge of his duties 
and responsibilities . 

The settlement thus secures to the Bank the scrvices of the workman with an 
assurance for proper behaviour and obedience to the superiors, proper discharge 
of his duties and responsibilities . This is clearly in the interest of the Bank . 

On reading the terms of the compromise of the settlement, therefore, I find 
that the settlement is advantageous and beneficial to both the parties. It is 
accordingly accepted and an Award as prayed by the parties is made in terms of 
the settlement which shall form part of the order . In view of the circumstances 
of the case parties will bear their own costs. Let the Award be sent to the 
Central Government. 


( Sd.) M . CHANDRA , 

Presiding Officer. 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal 

cum - Labour Court , Jabalpur . 
Memorandum of Settlement arrived at on 11th August , 1971 in the matter of an 

Industrial Dispute between the Management of Central Bank of India , New 
Delhi and their workomen , Mr. Rеoti Saran Aggarwal represented by 

Central Bank Workers Union , Delhi, 
PartieS PRESENT : 
For the Management- Shri M . L . Bhalla . Chief Agent, Central Bank of 

India , New Delhi, 
For the Workomen - Shri M . L . Razdan , General Secretary, Central Bank 
Workers Union , Delhi. 

Short Recital 
Mr. Reoti Şaran Aggarwal joined the seryice of the Central Bank of India on 
16th January , 1950 as Assistant Cashier . On certain charges he was discharged 
from the Bank s service on 20th June, 1986. This dispute is at present pending 
before the Hon ble Industrial Tribunal- cum -Labour Court ( C ), Jabalpur , as Refer 
ence No . CGIT / LC ( R ) ( 15 )-71. The parties expressed desire to arrive at a mutual 
settlement in this matter and after discussions have arrived at the following 
terms and settlement in the dispute , 

Terms of Settlement 
1. That Mr. Rеoti Saran Aggarwal will be reingtated in the Bank s service with 
effect from 1st September, 1971. 

2 . That the fixation of basic pay of Mr. Rеoti Saran Aggarwal will be made 
on the basis as if he had continued to be in Bank s service l.e . he shall be given 
ail the notional increments from the date of his discharge to the date of his 
reinstatement as per First and Second Bipartite Settlement governing among 
others , the Central Bank of India also but he will not be entitled to any arrears 
of pay and allowances and honus etc . He further shall not be entitled to any 
contribution towards provident fund from the date of his dischage to the date of 
his relnstatement. 


Szc 3( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 /BHADRA 27, 1893 4793 


3 . That the period from the date of discharge of Mr. Reot Saran Aggarwal 
to the date of his reinstatement will be treated as leave on loss of pay and all 
other benefits . 

4 . That the period from the date of discharge of Mr. Rеoti Saran Aggarwal to 
the date of his reinstatement shall, of course , be accounted to the purpose of 
gratuity and seniority for promotion , 

5 . That Mr. Keoti Saran Aggarwal will have no claim for promotion on the 
basis of length of his service for two years from the date of his relnstatement. 

6 . That on his reinstatement, Mr. Reati Saran Aggarwal will be posted as Assis 
tant Cashier - cum -Godown Keeper in any office in Delhi Group , 

7 . That Mr. Rеoti Saran Aggarwal while expressing regret for his past conduct, 
assures proper behaviour and obedience to his superiors and also proper dis 
charge of his duties and responsibilitles. 

8 . That as Mr. Rеoti Saran Aggarwal was unemployed for about 5 years and 
has been pursuing his case in the Tribunal with the result he had to be in debt 
and also in view of his assurance for decent and proper behaviour, the Bank 
shall pay to Mr. Rеoti Saran Aggarwal Rs. 3,000 / - (Rupees three thousand only ) 
as er - gratia payment. 

9 . In consideration of the above , the parties hereby agree that the settlement 
shall be binding on the management of the Bank and the workman , 


For Central Bank Workers Union : 

For Central Bank of India ; 
( şd .) M . L . RAZDAN . 

(Sd.) M . L . BIALI, 
( Sd.) REOTI SARAN AGGARWAL . 
Witnesses : 
1. S . K . GAUBA , 
2 . R . C . CHANDWANY . 

Filed and verified by Sri Suryadaya Trivedi, Advocate , for the Management and 
Shri M . L . Razdan , General Secretary of the Union identified by Sri Suryodaya 
Trivedi, Advocate . Compromise is also verified by Sri Reoti Saran Aggarwal, 
applicant in person , who is also identified by Sri Suryodaya Trivedi. 

(Sd. ) M , CHANDRA , 

Presiding Oncer . 

12 -8 - 71 . 
( Sd .) SURYODAYA TRIVEDI, 
Asstt. Law Officer , 
( Sd .) M . L. RAZDAN , 
General Secretary , 
C . B . W . U . 

( Sd .) REOTI SARAN AGGARWAL , 

Workman . 

[No. 23 / 71/ 69 / LRIII. ] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 31st July 1971 
S . O . 3414 . -- Whereas the industrial dispute specified in the Srhedule hereto 
annexed is pending before Shri K , P . Gupta , Presiding Officer . Industriai Tribunal, 
Allahabad. 

And, whereas , the services of Shri K . P . Gupta nave ceased to be avaliable. 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers confcrred by section 7A , und sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 33B of the Industrial Disprites Art. 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tubulal with Shri Altab 
Ahmad as the Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Kanpur , withdraws the 
proceedings in relation to the said dispute pending before Shri K . P . Gupta and 
transfers the same to the said Industrial Tribunal, Kanpur constituted with Shri 


4794 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SBPTEMBER 18, 1971/ BHADRA 27, 1893 [Part II-- 


Aftab Ahmad as Presiding Omcer thereof and directs that the sald Tribunal shall 
proceed with the proceedings from the stage at which they are transferred to it 
and dispose of the same according to law . 

SCHEDULE 


Parties to the depute 


Order No. and Date 


S . O . No of Gazette and year of 

publication 
3107 / 70 


Punjab National Bank and their 24/ 3/ 70 LRIII deted the 
workmen 

sth September, 1970 


[ No. 24 / 3 / 70 / LRIII .] 


मादेश 


नई दिल्ली, 31 जुलाई 1971 


का० प्रा० 3414 - यत : इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट औधोयिक विवाद श्री के . 
पी० गुप्ता , पीठासीन अधिकारी प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण इलाहाबाद के समक्ष लम्बित हैं । 

यतः श्री के० पी० गुप्ता की सेवाएं अब उपलब्ध नहीं रहीं । 

यतः अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947, ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 7 फ और 
धारा 33ख की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
एक प्रायोगिक अधिकरण गठित करती है जिसके पीठासीन अधिकारी श्री आफताब अहमद होंगे 
जिनका मुख्यालय कानपुर होगा और श्री के० पी गुप्ता के समक्ष लम्बित उक्त विवाद से सम्बस 
कार्यवाहियों को वापस लेते हैं और उसे श्री आफताब अहमद के पीठासीन अधिकारी के रूपमें 
गठित उक्त प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , कानपुर कोअन्तरित करती है और निदेश देती हैं कि उक्त 
अधिकरण और आगे उस प्रक्रम कार्यवाही करने के लिए अग्रसर होगा जिस पर वह उसे अन्तरित 
की गई है और विधि के अनुसार उसका निपटारन करेगा । 

अनुसूची 


विवाद के पक्षकार 


मादेश संख्या और तारीख 


राजपत्र की का० प्रा० 

संख्या तथा प्रकाशन 
वर्ष 


पंजाब नेशनल बैंक और उसके कर्मकार , 


24/ 8/ 70 - एल०मार० - III 3707/ 70 
तारीख 5 सितम्बर , 
1970 


[ संख्या फा० 24/ 3/ 70 -एल०पार०--III ] 

एस०एस० सहस्त्रनामन , अवर सचिव । 


Sec . 3 ( ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 1893 4795 


ve 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1971 
S O , 3415 , - In the notificalon of the Goverament of India in the Department of Labour 
and Employment No. S . O . 221, dated the 5th June 1971, published on pages 3209 to 3218 of 
the Gazette of India Part II - Section 3 Sub - Section ( 1) the following corrections shall be carried 
out ; 


Page No. Line 


For the words/figures 


Picard read 


No. 


3712 
3212 


3212 


3212 


12 & 13 Reference No. F . 12- I of 1970 Reference No. NIT -I of 1970 
25 Rs. 230 — 15 — 245 — 20 — 325 – Rs. 230 - 15 ~ 245204385 
25 - 435 . 

25 — 435. 
26 Rs. 150 — 10 — 200 - 15 — 245 — Rs. 150 – 10 — 200 - 15 — 245 – 
20 _ 285 — 25 - 510 

20 — 385 — 25 – 310. 
27 R $ . 325 - - 234 - 325 — 26 560 Rs. 325 — 20 — 385 — 25 – 560 _ 
40 _ - 840 (Non - technical 

40 - 640 (Non - technical. 
categories only ). 

categories only ) 
28 R $. 325 - 25 – 560~ 40 — 720 Rs. 385 – 25 – 560w - 40m -620 . 
29 R . 435 - 25 – 560 -40 — 720 Rs. 435 ~ 250 - 560 -40 720 
80 - 870 . 

50 870 . 
49 & 50 R8, 150 - - 10 — 200415 — 245 - 20 Rs. 150IOm 200 — 15 - 245-- - 
-- 435 . 

20 — 345 
28 Said 

Paid 
12 Rs. 1401 

Rs. 1491 


3212 


3212 


3212 


3212 
3215 


[No.4/82 170 /IRIII] 
S . S . SAHASRANAMAN , Under Secy . 


(Dopartment of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 6th September 1971 
S . O . 8416 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , in the industrial dispute between 
the employers in relation to the management of Stone Quarries / Companies as given 
in Schedule I of the Award and their workmen , which was received by the Central 
Government on the 31st August, 1971. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY . 

REF. No. CGIT -6 or 1966 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to certain Stone Quarry Companies 

AND 

Their workmen . 
PRESENT; 

Shri A . T . Zambre , Presiding Officer 


4796 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/ BHADRA 27, 1893, [PART II - - 


APPEARANCES ; 
For employers 1, 2 , 3 and 8 . - Shri K , Srinivasamurthy , Advocate with Shri 

Manik Arke, Secretary, Shahabad , Stone Quarties Lease Holders 

Association . 
For employer No. 4 . — Shri A . T . Joshi, Labour Adviser. 
For the workmen , Shri D . H . Dharap with Shri S . Chandrasekhar, Vice 

President, Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarries Labour and Emplo 
yees Union and General Secretory , Tandur Stone Quarries Labour 
and Employees Union , 
Shri S . B . Kamat, Advocate for the Stone Querry and Polishing 

Workers Union . 
SIATE : Andhra Pradesh and Mysore. 

INDUSTRY : Stone Quarrying 
Bombay dated 30th July , 1971. 

AWARD 
The Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment had by their 
Order No. 36 / 11 / 65 -LRI dated 17th September, 1966 under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act referred to the Industrial Tribunal , Hyderabad for adjudi. 
cation an industrial dispute existing between certain stone quarries / companies 
specified in the following schedule No. 1 and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in schedule No. 2 : - - 

SCHEDULE I 
1 . Messrs. Tandur and Navandgi Slone Quarries (P ) Limited No. 1 -10 - 146 , 

Begumpet, Hyderabad 18 . 
2. Messrs. Shahabad and Martur Stone Supplying Company (P ) Limited , 

Shahabad, Mysore State . 
3 , Messrs. Chittapur Stone Quarrying Company (Private ) Limited , Chittapur , 

Mysore Ştate . 
4 . Messrs . Wadi Stone Marketing Company Limited , Wadi, Mysore State . 
5 . Messrs. Vijaya Stone Supplying Company , Seram , Mysore State . 
6 . Messrs. Karnatak Stone Supplying Company , Seram , Mysore State . 
7 . Messrs . Stone Supply Company Limited , Post Office Kurkunta , Mysore 

State , 
8. Messrs . Gingurthi Stone Company , P .O . Tandur, Andhra Pradesh , 

SCHEDULE II 


( 1 ) Whether the employers mentioned in Schedule 1 are justified in refusing 

paid National Festival Holidays to their workmen ? 
( 2 ) If not, what should be the number of such paid Festival Holidays in 

a year, and , from what year are the worknien entitled to get 

the benefit ? " 
2 . Subsequently Government by their Order No . 36 / 11 / 65 -LR . I dated 6th 
January , 1966 in cxercise of the powers ccnferſed by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 33B 
of the Industrial Disputes Act withdrew the proceedings from the Industrial 
Tribunal, Hyderabad and transferred them to this Tribunal with a direction to 
proceed the said proceedings from the stage at which they were transferred , 


3 The Tandur and Navandgl Stone Quarries Labour and Employees Union has 
by its statement of claim Aled on behalf of the workmen employed by the employer 
Nos , 1 , 2 , 3 and 8 have contended that the said four companies are engaged in the 
mining and extraction of lime stone employing thousands of workers . In the 
Tandur Quarry Company about 2000 workers are employed . In the Shahabad 
and Martur Stone Supplying Company about 500 to 600 workers are employed . 
The same number is employed by he Chittapur Company and that these companies 
are functioning since a long time and have profited by fleccing the workmen by 
paying them very low wages . It is alleged that the employers have denied all 
Tcave and holidays with wages throughout the year. Even National Holidays, like 
Republic Day , and Independence Day which are allowed all over the country as 
paid holidays have been denied to the workers. Similarly other paid festival 
holidays are also not given . The employees are also denied elementary leave 
privileges. There is no casual leave, privilege leave or sick leave nor any weekly 


SEC 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 1893 4797 


off and the workers are entitled to at least 15 days holidays in a year. They have 
demanded 15 National and Festival holidays such as 

( 1 ) Republic Day . 
( 2 ) Independence Day . 
( 3 ) Dussehera . 
( 4 ) Deepavali . 
( 5 ) 2nd October 
( 6 ) Makara Sankrant, 
( 7 ) Holi . 
(8 ) Hindu New Year Day (Ugadi) . 
( 9 ) Moharram , 
( 10 ) Ramzan , 
(11) Bakri Ed . 
( 12 ) Erwaka " Kæaroon " . 
( 13 ) October 7th (International Worker ; Solidarity Day ) . 
( 14 ) 2nd May (Workers Day ) . 

( 15 ) Maha Shiy Ratri, 
and have requested that the workers should be granted these holidays with wages 
and the benefit with effect from the date of the demand . 

4 . Some of the employers are the members of the Shahabad Stone Quarries 
Lease Holders Association . The Association has by its reply statement contended 
that the question referred to this Tribunal was only in respect of the grant of 
national holidays with pay . In this country there are only two National Holidays 
1. e . Republic Day und Independence Day and as the management has been giving 
the workmen holidays on those days the only question is whether the workmen 
should be paid for those days. They have opposed the reference on the technical 
contentions that the question of festival holidays is outside the scope of the 
reference and this Tribunal has no jurisdiction to go into that question . In the 
alternative it has been submitted that the demand of the workmen for the grant 
of 15 festival holidays was beyond all proportion especially when there is a demand 
in the country for increased production . It has alleged that ever larger and well 
established units were granting only 7 festival holidays per year and the present 
trend was towards reduction of testival holidays . It has further contended that 
the employers have no capacity to grant the festival holidays with pay as demanded 
and the workers demand should be rejected . 

5 . Government had forwarded the coples of the reference order only to ( 1 ) 
the Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarry Labourers and Employees Union , Branch 
Chittapur, Gulbarga District, Mysore State and ( 2 ) the Tandur Stone Quarries 
Labour and Employees Union , Post Omnce Tandur, C . Rly ., A . P . Hyderabad 
District. . Both these unions are headed by the same President and are branches 
of the Stone Quarry and Employees Union and have Aled a common - statement. 
But during the pendency of the proceedings some other unions put forth their 
appearance viz . The Shahabad Stone Workers Union and the Wadi Stone Marketing 
Workers Union and asked for only adjournment for Ragotiations but did not put 
in any wſitten statements . The employers association , had not stated as to on 
whose beñall they had Aled their written statement. Hende fresh notices were 
Issued and employer No. 3 Aled a statement dated 28th July , 1970 raising conten 
tions similar to those put forth by the association . 


6 Employer No. 4 the Wadi Stone Marketing Company Limited , by an applica 
tion dated 3rd August, 1970 contended that the reference was últra vires on the 
ground that there was no industrial dispute between the company and their 
workmen in the matter of national and festival holidays. They have alleged that 
their workmen had never raised any demand either wilth , the company or with the 
Government in respect of holidays and in view of the decision of the Supreme 
Court reported in 1968 I LLJ 834 the reforence against empolyer No. 4 was ultra 
vires . It has been further alleged in the written statement that the union had 
not Aled any statement of claim against the company and the present reference 
should be rclected . The Stone Quarry and Polishing Workers Union had also 
made an application on 30th August, 1970 that their union was the only representa 
tive union representing the workmen of the Wadi Stone Marketing Company 
employer No 4 The workmen were never represented by any other union ; that 
their workmen had never raised any dispute with the Wadi Stone Marketing 
Company in the matter of national festival holiday and there is no dispute 
betworn hen and the employer . 


4798 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/BHADRA 27 , 1893 [PART 11 % 
= = = 

7. From the replies of the managements it is clear that the employers have 
mainly resisted the reference on the basis of the vagueness of the wording of the 
reference order and have contended that the Tribunal has to decide only the issues 
aş specified by the reference order. It has no power to amend the order and as 
the reference is not valid the same should be thrown out for Want of jurisdiction 
And I shall Arst deal with the technical contentions of employers Nos . 1, 2 , 3 and 8 
about the valldity of the reference , 

8 . Shri K , Srinivasamurthy, Advocate , appearing for employers Nos . 1 , 2 , 3 
and 9 has argued that there are only two National holidays i. eu Republic Day 
26th January and Independence Day 15th August . There are no national holidays 
except these two and the question is what meaning should be attached to the 
reference Government have in the order used the words national festival 
holidays " while in para 2 of the order they have used the words " what should be 
the number of such paid festival holidays in the year" . Paragraph 2 does not 
speak of national holidays and the Tribunal has no jurisdiction to find out the 
meaning to be attributed to the reterence order . The parties ought to have got 
the matter clarified from Government and under the circumstances no relief can 
be given to the parties . The learned Counsel has relled upon the rulings reported 
In 1959 II LLJ 656 and 1963 1 LLJ 507. 


9 . I do not think these rulings help the employers in their contention in barring 
Jurisdiction of the Tribunal to decide the issues referred under the reference order , 
In the ruling reported in 1983 1 LLJ 507 It bas teen observed :- - 
" Section 10 ( 4 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act makes it clear that whero a 

reference is made to a labour court for adjudication it shall continue 
Its adjudication to the points of dispute reterred for adjudication . It 
the reference is made to an incorrect assumption it is certainly not 
open to the industrial trbunal while so holding to enlarge by Its own 
choice the scope of the reference and widen the issues for decision 

and the field for enquiry including the evidence ." 
The other ruling also lays down the game principle that the Industrial Tribunal 
"Das to conAne its adjudication to the points specified in the order of reference, 
However , it has nowhere been laid down in these rulings that the Tribunal has no 
power to find out the nature of the dispute referred to it . 

10 . Shri Chandrasekhar the General Secretary of the Union has relied upon the 
ruling reported in 1987 1 LLJ 423 (Delhi Cloth and General Milg v . Its workmen ) 
In which on page 431 their Lordships of the Supreme Court have observed :-- 
" In our opinion , the tribunal must in any event look to the pleading of the 

parties to find out the exact nature of the dispute because in mog 
cases the order of reterence 1. 80 cryptic that it is impossible to cul 
out therefrom the various points about which the parties were a 

variance leading to the trouble." 
Considering these observation , the contention of the management that th 
tribunal cannot find out the meaning of the order cannot be accepted and th 
naturo of the industrial dispute aball have to be determined from the referend 
order and the pleading , etc ., of the parties . The wording of the reference orde 
18 as follows: 
1. "Whether the employers mentioned in Schedule 1 aro justified in refusing 

Paid National Festival Holidays to their workmen ? 
2 . It not, what should be the number of such paid festival holiday . lo & 

year and from what year are the workmen entitled to get the benefit ? " 


11. It la not in dispute that on holidays work in an establishment 18 ordinarily 
lobed According to the dictionary meaning " holiday " means a day of idlendas 
and recreation and a national holiday would mern a holiday for national rejoicing 
or holday of national importance . There are also other sectional holdays on 
which the establishments are closed for sodal and religious festivals and those 
holidays can be referred to 28 festival holidays. Thus there are two types of 
holidays and by referring the question of paid national festival holidays it is 
clearly meant paid national and festival holidays. It is an admitted fact that the 
qua , ries grant 15 holidays in a year but they are without payment. The manage 
ments have endorsed the applicatton of the unlop dated 19th August, 1970 to that 
effect and the question is not on what holidays the establishments should be 


SAC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 /BHADRA 27, 1893 470 


- = 
closed . Considering the wording in the two paragraphs of the reference order 
and the pleadings in my opinion the real stress is not in respect of the character 
of the holidays as national holidays or festival holidays but it is in respect of 
payment of wages on holidays 1. e on paid holidays. The Shahabad Stone Quarrios 
Lease Holders Association has in its written statement stated that the manage- - 
ment had been giving the workmen the National Holidays and the only question . 
is whether they should be paid on those days, 

12 . It is significant to note that the reference has been made because of the 
charter of demands made by the Stone Quarries Labour and Employees Union . 
The Government has along with the order of reference forwarded the three failure 
reports made by the Regional Labour Commissioner which gives the substance of 
the demands. The report says that the Tandur Stone Quarries Labour and Emplo 
yees Union raised two disputes over the charter of demands of the workmen of 
Tandur and Navandgl Stone Quarries ( P ) Limited , and the Gingurthi Stone 
Company The demand included revision of wages of workinen engaged on various 
piece- rated jobs, payment of dearness allowance introduction of certain benofts 
provided in the various labour laws, festival holidays and bonus for the years 
1962 - 1963 and 1963 - 1964 . Thus this will show that according to the charter the 
workmen had asked for festival holidays , 

13 . In the failure report in respect of the charter of demards Alod agalnst the 
Shahabad and Martur Stone Supplying Company while giving the substance of the 
demands the Regional Labour Commigsioner has stated that the charter of demands 
includes increase in rate of wages of the workmen employed in various operations, 
dearness allowance, introduction of provident fund , wage glips and leave with 
wages , paid national festival holidays and bonus for the year 1963- 64 . Thus the 
reports would show that the demand was in respect of both national and festival 
holidays and Government by the order has referred the dispute about paid 
National and Feşival Holidays. 


14 . It is not in dispute that in our country there are only two National Holidays, 
the Republic Day and Independence Day . Had the reference been only in respect 
of National Holidays then there was no question of the wording in the second 
paragraph as to what should be the number of such paid festival holidays and 
It is clear that the dispute is in respect of both paid national holidays and paid 
festival holidays. 

15 This will be further corroborated from the evidence of the enquiries made 
by the employers about the number of holdays with other managements . The 
employers habe examined Shri Krishnamurthy who was the Administrative 
Manager of the Tandur ænd Navandgi Stone Quarries ( Private Limited . He has 
produced the letters which the management had received from the Associated 
Cement Companies Limited . Shahabad Work , and the Mahaboob Shahl Kulburga 
Mills Company Limited , Gulburga . He has turther stated that the Manager had 
sent the letters to the companleg to make enquiries about the number of holidays 
in the year and he himself had drafted those letters. This clearly shows that the 
dispute was in respect of all the paid holidays in the year . Had it been only in 
respect of national holidays which are well known to be only two there was no 
question of making any enquiry and it shall have to be hold that the dispute 
referred to this Tribunal is in respect of the number of paid National and festival 
boldays, 

16 . The learned Counsel has further argued that when Government have in 
paragraph 2 of their order used the words " such festival holidays" they excluded 
National Holidays and as the two parts are inconsistent no relief can be given . 
The General Secretary of the Union Shri S . Chandrasekhar has relied upon the 
observations of their Lordships of the Supreme Court in 1962 II LLJ 227 (Express 
Newspapers Ltd ., and their workmen ) in which their Lordshirs have emphasised 
the necessity of framing the order of reference carefully and have further given 
directions to the Courts in construing such orders. They have observed : 
" An order of reference hastily drawn or drawn in a casual manner often 

gives rise to unnecessary disputes and thereby drolones the life of 
industrial adjudication which moist always be avoided . Even so when 
a question of this kind is raised before the Courts the Courts must 
attempt to construe the reference not too technically or in a pedantic 

manner but fairly and reasonably . 
I have already considered the wording of the reference order , the pleadings and 
the substance of the demand from the failurc report and I am satisfied that the 


14800 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 1893 (Part II - 


real dispute between the parties is in respect of paid national and festival holidays 
- and the first question is whether the employers are justified in refusing pald 
National and festival holidays to the workmen . 


17 . The union has in its statement of claim contended that the workinen 
- employed by the company are denied all leave and holidays with wages during 

the year. There is no casual leave or privilege leave to them . Even sickness 
benefits allowed under the Employees State Insurance are not available to them and 
they should be granted 15 days as paid National and festival holidays . It is not 
in dispute that the workers employed by these companies are not getting any 
paid holidays or leave and there is much substance in the contentions raised by 
the workers . It is known that the various State Governments have made provi 
Blons for paid holidays under the Negotiable Instruments Act. It is also not in 
dispute that almost all commercial and industrial establishments and factories 
havo by their standing orders made provision for paid holidays. The employees 
in question are quarry workers . They have to work in the hot sun and consider 
ing all the circumstances It shall have to be held that the employers are not justified 
in refusing paid National and festival holidays to their employees . 

18 . Before considering the second part of the reference it is necessary to deal 
with the plea of the Wadi Stone Marketing Co ., Ltd ., Mysore State , Enployer 
No. 4 raised by them by their subsequent written statement Aled on 4th August 
1970 in respect of the validity of the reference . By this written statement they 
have contended thut their workmen had not made any specific deinands for paid 
holidays , that they had not raised any dispute and as there is no industrial dispute 
this Tribunal has no jurisdiction . The learned Counsel Shri Joshi on their behalf 
has relied upon the ruling reported in Sindhu Resettlement Corporation Ltd . 0 , 
their workmen ( 1968 1 LLJ page 834 ) in which it has been observed : 
" On the facts of this case , it is clear that the reference made by the Govern 

ment was not competent and mere demand to a Government without 
a dispute being raised by the workmen with their employers cannot 
become an industrial dispute , . . . . . " 


It has been further argued that even after the reference the workmen had not 
Aled any statement of claim In justification of the demand and the reference should 
be dismissed against the employer No. 4 , 

19. Shri S . Chandrasekhar , Vice- President of the Shahabad and Martur Stone 
Quarries Labour and Employees Union has in his rejoinder contended that the 
workmen employed by this company were not allowed any holidays with pay not 
-even the National festival holidays, like Republic Day And Independance Day . 
The workmen were very poor and illiterate . They had made oral representations 
and asked the management to allow them holidays with pay but their request was 
never granted . It was not that there was no demand but the workers were carry 
ing on with seething discontent and the demand of 15 paid holidays was applicable 
ever to the Wadi workers. Regarding the competency of the ceference it has 
been further contended that Government have powers to make a reference based 
on apprehension of industrial unrest prevailing among the quarry workers of 
the region . All the quarries which are parties to the reference are situated in 
the same locality on the borders of Mysore and Andhra Pradesh . The employers 
were represented by the Lease Holders Association and Government has referred 
the dispute în exercise of their powers conferred under section 10 ( 5 ) of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act . It is an industrywise dispute . No specific demand is f. ecess 
ary against each management and the contention advanced by the employers 
should not be accepted and the next question is whether the present reference 
against employer No. 4 the Wadi Stone Marketing Company Ltd ., is competent. 


20 . It is not in dispute that no specific written demand has been made to the 
employers of the Wadl Stone Markeling Co . about paid holidays . Even the 
Secretary of the Union Shri Bhimsha who has been examined has admitted in 
his cross - examination that he had not made any demand about paid loliday on 
behalf of the Wadi workers and it can be accepted that there was no specific demand 
about paid holidays by the workers to employer No. 4 . However it is not in dis 
pute that on behalf of the quarry wokers various demands were raised by the 
Sinabha and Miirtur Glone QuarriesL uur iad I lunes Triun, o e ( - in nd : 
were in respect of rates of wages, dearness allowance, National festival holidays, 
provident fund , leave and other benefits ind conditions of service and were laude 
against many quarries of the localiiy . I have already quoted in prieť the sub 
stance of the demand as secn in the f: ilure report in respect of some managements . 
It is also not in dispute that because of these demands Government had passed two 
Teference orders in respect of the demands and referred the two disputes to this 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/ BHADRA 27, 1893 4801 


Tribunal. One of them is the instant reference No . 5 / 86 and the other is 
Ref . No, 72 / 66 . This Ref. No. 5 / 66 pertains to only paid holidays while the other 
Ref. 72 /65 is in respect of rate of wages, dearness allowance etc ., and these referen . 
ces are heard together in this Tribunal. The employers Messrs. Wadi Stone 
Marketing Co ., Private Ltd ., is a party in both these references and it is clear 
that Government has included the Wadi Stone Marketing Company in this refer 
ence also because of those general demands which clearly shows that the present 
industrywise reference has been made by Government in exercise of the powers 
under section 10 ( 5 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act . They have joined almost all 
the quarry companies as parties to this reference and it is unnecessary that there 
should be a specifled and actual demand against every employer in respect of the 
paid holidays for rendering the reference competent. 
21, Section 10 (5 ) of the Act reads as follows: 
10 (5 ) " Where any dispute concerning any establishment or establishments 

has been or ts to be referred to a Labour Court , Tribunal or National 
Tribunal under this section and the appropriate Government is of 
opinion whether on an application made to it in this behalf or other . 
wise that the dispute is of such a nature that any other establishment 
group or class of establishments of a similar nature is likely to be 
interested in or affected by such dispute the appropriate Government 
may at the time of making the reference or at any time thereafter 
but before the submission of the award include in that reference 
such establishment, group or class of establishments whether or not 
at the time of such inclusion any dispute exists or is apprehended 

in that establishment group or class of establishments . " 
From the wording of this section it is clear that the appropriate Government is 
competent to include any establishment or class of establishments when it wants 
to refer a dispute concerning similar establishments . It is not in dispute that the 
Wadi Stone Marketing Co., is situated in the same area . It is also not in dispute 
that the company carries on the same business . It is also clear from the failure 
reports that there were disputes between the workmen and the managements as 
the employees had made demands for revision of wages and paid holidays etc . It 
cannot be disputed that even the workers employed by the Wadi Stone Marketing 
Co ., are likely to be interested or affected by the result of the Axation of wage 
scales and paid holidays in the adjacent establishments and considering the 
circumstances it shall have to be held that Government was perfectly justified in 
Including the Wadi Stone Marketing Co., In this reference under section 10 (0 ) of 
the Act. 

22. The learned Counsel Shri Joshi has argued that the reference order itself 
states that Government have made the reference under section 10 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the 
Act. There is no mention of section 10 ( 5 ) and it is not an industrywise reference 
under section 10 ( 5 ) . I have already stated that all these quarries of the eight 
companies are situated in the same region . They are also near each other . It 
18 significant to note that a majority of the establishments are the inembers of the 
Shahabad Stone Quarry Lease Holders Association . The Wadi Stone Marketing 
Company is also a member of this Association . The Association has not in its 
written statement contended that there was no demand for paid holidays. This 
written statement was also Aled on behalf of employer No, 4 and these circum 
istances also clearly show that the reference has been made under section 10 ( 6 ) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act. 

23. As regards the specific mention of section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) in the reference order 
I do not think this will make any difference or will go to show that it is not an 
industrywise reference. It is significant to note that every reference to a Tribunal 
under the Act has to be made in exercise of powers conferred under section 7A 
and 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) and no significance can be attached to the mention . In an ir:dustry 
wise reference a similar establishment can be joined without any dispute . The 
wording in section 10 ( 5 ) " whether or not at the time of such inclusion any dispute 
exists or is apprehended in that establishment" clearly negatives the contentions 
raised by the employers that the reference is not valid as there was to dispute . 

24 . The learned Counsel has emphasized the ratio of the ruling quoted above 
which requires the existence of a dispute for the validity of the reference . I do 
not think that the principle laid down in that particular ruling which is applicable 
to the particuler situation can be disputed . It has to be remembered that it was a 
dispute in respect of reinstatement of a retrenched employee and the reference 
was made in respect of the individual dispute. It was not in respect of an indus 
trywise discute as in the present case and the contention that th : re: crence is 
not compctent in respect of the Wadi Stone Marketing Co ., Ltd ., cannot be accept 
ed , 


4802 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27, 1893 (PART II — 


25 . The learned Counsel Shri A . T . Joshi and Shri S . B . Kámat have further 
argued that the employees of the company were not the members of the Shahabad 
and Martur Stone Quarries Labour and Employees Union . It was not a repre 
sentative union and they had no right to represent the workmen , Their employees 
are represented by the other union known as Wadi Stone Marketing Co . ( P ) Ltd ., 
Workery Union . It is contended that the union has now changed its name and 
18 known as the Stone Quarry and Polishing Workers Union , This union has 
not made any claim in this reference and there is no dispute between the manage 
ment and their workers about paid holidays. It has been further argued that even . 
the Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarries Labour Union not in their first state 
ment of claim dated 25th October , 1965 , included the employees of this company . 
It was only in their subsequent written statement dated 20th August, 1970 , they 
have stated that the claim for 15 National Festival Holidays made in the cese was 
applicable to the workers of the Wadi Stone Marketing Co ., and as there is no 
claim the reference should be dismissed , Shri Kamat who appeared on behalf 
of the Stone Quarry and Polishing Workers Union has also supported the conten 
tion of the employers that the workers had not made any demand about paid 
holidays and there is no dispute between the worker " and the management in 
that respect. 

26 . Shri Dharap on behalf of the Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarry Labour 
ers and Employees Union has argued that in the year 1965 when the demands 
were made and the dispute was in conciliation proceedings the only union func 
tioning in the area was the Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarry Labourers and 
Employees Union . The Stone Quarry and Polishing Workers Union was not 
also in existence. The management colluding with some of the aspirants and 
few workers have set up this union and with their help want to deprive the 
workers of the benefit of paid holidays . It has been further argued that the 
arguments advanced by the management that there is no dispute about paid holi 
days and their workers do not want paid holidays is very strange and this cir 
cumstance itself will prove that the union is set up by the management with a 
view to deprive the workers of the advantage. The Shahabad and Martur Stone 
Quarry Labourers and Employees Union though now a minority union function 
ed during this period and has got every right to press the demand of the workers 
for paid holidays. 

27 . In support of their contention the Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarry 
Labourers and Employees Union has examined Shri Bhimsha who was formerly 
working with the union as Secretary . He has stated that in the beginning the 
union members were from Shahabad and subsequently workmen from other places 
such as Wadi. Chittapur , Kurkunda also joined the union and there were 80 or 
90 members from Wadi Stone quarry. He has further stated that till he was 
Secretary no other union was functioning for the Wadi workers . However , this 
witness has not produced the registers and other records though promised . HC 
had in his cross -examination undertaken to produce the registers in Court and 
has failed to produce them and from this it can be advergcly inferred that the 
union is not representing a majority of the workers. 

28 . However , it cannot be said that the union had absolutely no following 
among the Wadi workers. This witness has produced the letter of the Labour 
Officer, Gulbarg & , dated 15th April, 1967, which letter shows that the Labour 
Officer had asked witness Bhimsha Gidappa , Secretary of the Union to meet the 
officer in the Guest House of the Associated Cement Cos. Ltd ., Shahabad with 
the records and registers. From this it would be clear that Shri Bhimsha was 
the Secretary of the Union and the records were with him , The Union has also 
produced the following documents : 
( 1 ) Memorandum of settlement dated 16 - 11 - 1984 under section 12 ( 3 ) of 

the Industrial Disputes Act between the union and the Shahabad 
Stone Quarries Lease Holders Association in which the Wadl Stone 

Marketing Co . was represented . 
( 2 ) Memorandum of settlement dated 7 - 1 - 1965 between the union and the 

companies including the Wadi Stone Marketing Co Ltd . before the 

R .L . C . ( C ) . 
( 3 ) Minutes of discussions of the conciliation proceedings held under ser 

tion 12 of the ID Act , 1947 before the Conciliation Officer ( Central) , 
Hyderabad on 9 - 4 - 1965 . 


These documents clearly establish that the Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarry 
Labourers and Employees Union was functioning among the quarry workers. 
since before 1945 and had raised disputes on behalf of the workers including the 


SEC 3 ( li ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/BHADRA 27 , 1893 4803 . 


Wadi workers . The documents show that the Wadi establishment had also enter 
ed into settlements with the Shahabad and Martur Stone Quarry Labour ani 
Employees Union and the contention of the Wadi employees that this union ha 
absolutely no membership from their workers cannot be accepted . 


29 , Shri Dharap on behalf of the Shahabad Stone Quarry Labourers and Em 
ployees Union has submitted that by setting up the new union the management 
wants to convert this industrial. dispute into a dispute between the unions and 
deprive the workers of the benefit of paid holidays. It is clear from the copy 
of the registration certificate of the Stone Quarry and Polishing Workers Union 
that this union has been registered on 28th May, 1970 and it is recently formed . 
It has put in its Arst appearance in this reference on 20th August, 1970 and first 
contended that they have not raised any dispute . It is contended that this new 
union is a continuation of the old union named " The Wadi Stone Marketing Com 
pany Workers Union , However, they have not led any evidence and there is 
no proof that the new union is the continuation of the old union , 


30 . It is significant to note that the Wadi Stone Marketing Company Workers 
Union which put in Its appearance in this reference from the year 1986 has no 
where stated that there was no dispute. But now and then the union made appli 
cations that they were negotiating the matter . There were negotiations going on 
with the management and the reference should be adjourned . It is only after 
that union entered into an agreement with the Wadi company in respect of the 
wage scale in the other reference No . 72 | 1966 and Shri Chandrasekhar s union 
raised objections the inter union rivalry came openly on the surface and each 
union claimed the representative character and it is thereafter that the Stone 
Quarry and Polishing Workers Union came into existence and putting in its 
appearance first Aled a written statement on 20th August, 1970 in which they 
have contended that they had never any dispute with the Wadi Stone Marketing 
Co . in the matter of the National and festival holidays and they had not also rais 
ed any such demand . It is not the case of the union or of the management that 
there is any agreement or settlement between them and the workers under which 
they have fixed the number of paid holidays. 


31. On the contrary the first written statement filed by Quarry Lease Holderg 
Association on behalf of the company shows clearly that they did not give any 
paid holidays to their workers. I have already stated that some of the employerg 
were the members of the Lease Holders Association and this Association had in 
the written statement stated they were granting their workmen holidays on Re 
public Day and Independence Day and the only question was whether they should 
be paid for those two days which clearly shows that the employers who were 
members of the Association were not giving to their workmen any paid holidays . 
As the association had not in their written statement stated as to what employers 
were their members and on whose behalf they had Aled the written statement 
subsequently notices were issued and the Association by their explanation receiv 
ed in this office on 3rd August , 1970 , stated that the written statement filed by 
the association in this reference was Aled on behalf of such members of the agso 
ciation who were parties to the reference. They have also given the list of mem 
bers of the association and the Wadi Stone Marketing Co . Ltd ., is one of the mem 
bers of the association . 


32. It should be also clear from the application submitted by the Wadi Stone 
Marketing Company itself on 19th August, 1970 , when they requested to permit 
them to file their second written statement they have stated : 
" The reply statement Alled by the Secretary of the Shahabad Stone Quarry 

Lease Holders Association on 16th day of December, 1965 was filed 
on behalf of all its members including the present company viz ., 
Messrs. Wadi Stone Marketing Company Ltd ." 


and they further requested that it should be treated as superseded by the written 
statement, dated 3rd August, 1970 , Aled on 19th August, 1970 and it is clear that 
the Wadi Stone Marketing Company also has not been giving any paid holidays 
to their workers and the benefit of the final award will be available to the work 
erg of that company also , It is ciear from the evidence that when the Stone 
Quarry Labour and Employees Union raised disputes and made general demands 
about conditions of service against many managements Government included the 
Wadi company in the reference . The issue about paid holidays for the quarry 
workers is of a general nature in which all quarry workers are interested . The 
circumstances clearly indicate that the Stone Quarry Labour and Employees 


480A THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 /BHADRA 27, 1893 [PART II 


Union had some following among the Wadi Workers and was functioniny. Re 
cently it appoars to have been reduced to a minority union . But even a inino 
rity union has got a right to represent the workers and the workers can be bene 
fited if the claim made by the minority union is accepted as all the workers will 
get the benefit of this award . 


193 . By the second part of the reference this Tribunal has been asked to decide 
the question about the number of such paid holidays in the year. The union has 
claimed 15 paid holidays as ligted in their written statement. The association has 
on the contrary contended that the grant of 15 pald holidays would be beyond all 
proportion . The industries in the region were not also granted 15 paid holidays 
to their employees. Even the larger and well established units were granting 
only 7 festival holidays per year . Shri Dharap on behalf of the union has argued 
that in the ruling reported in 1964 1 LLJ page 12 at page 15 ( Associated Cement 
Co. Staff Union N , Associated Cement Co . ) and 1963 1 LLJ page 543 at page 555 
[ Pizer ( Pvt .) Ltd ., Bombay ,and their workmen ] the Supreme Court bad granted 
16 paid holidays to the industrial workers and the claim of the workers for 15 
holidays is proper . 

34 . However , it cannot be disputed that the fixation of the number of paid 
holidays should be in accordance with the number of days fixed in comparable 
undertakings in the region . The management has produced the letter from the 
Associated Cement Cos . Ltd ., Shahabad, dated 11th November , 1965 , which shows 
that they were granting 7 paid holidays such as Republic Day , Ramzan Id , Inde 
pendence Day, Dusserah etc. Similarly there is another letter from the Mahboob 
shahi Kulburga Mills Co . Ltd ., which also shows that the workers are getting 7 
paid holidays . These concerns are also in the same region and in my opinion 
the grant of 7 paid holidays in a year to the workers concerned in the present 
reference would be proper and I direct accordingly . Out of the 7 paid holidays 
the Republic Day and Independence Day should be granted by all the employers 
and the remaining five may be as mutually agreed between the workmen and 
the management. 

35 . The further question is from what year the workers should get the beneflt 
of the paid holidays. I have already stated that the employers keep their estab 
lishments closed on the 15 holidays every year but they are not making any pay 
ment to the workers for these holidays. The employers have below the applica 
tion of the union , dated 19th August, 1970 , made an endorsement and have admit 
ted that they are giving 15 holidays but without payment and the specific issue 
has been referred as to from what year the workers should be given the benefit 
of the payment. The union has claimed the benefit from the date of demand . 
However , considering the longstanding reference and the various adjournments 
sought and the circumstance that the workers have no benefits of casual leave, 
sick leave etc ., it is reasonable that the workers should be granted this beneft 
of payment from the date of the reference order . It was transferred to this Tri 
bunal by Government order No. 36 |11|65 -LR . I, dated 6th January , 1966 . Though 
the workers have enjoyed the holidays they have not received any payment and 
the managements are directed to pay the benefit of the 7 days holidays every 
year to the workers from January , 1966 within 30 days of the publication of this 
award in the official gazette . 


36 . As regards costs the reference has been hotly coatester , The workers 
representatives attended the proceedings both at Hyderabad and at Bombay on 
many occasions and in my opinion costs of Rs. 500 would meet the ends of justice, 
The employers Nos. 1, 2 , 3, 4 and 8 montioned in schedule 1 to the order of 
reference will pay Rs, 100 each as costs to the unions on record in the order of 
reference. 

A . T . ZAMBRE , 

Prealdin Omcer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay . 

[No. 36 ( 11 ) / 65 -LRIV . ] 


$ . 0 , 8417 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No . 1 ), Dhanbad , in the Industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the management of Dhansar Colllery of Messrs 
The Pure Dhansar Coal Company, Post Office Dhangar , District Dhanbad and their 
workmen , which was recelyed by the Central Government on the 31st August, 1971, 


Sgc. 3fil )| THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / HHADRA 27, 1893 4805 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 

In the matter of a reference under section 10 ( 1) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1917. 

REFERENCE No. 20 OF 1971 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the mangement of Dhansar Collery of M / g . The 

Pure Dhanşar Coal Company, P . O . Dhangar, (Dhanbad ). 


AND 


Their workmen represented by Collery Mazdoor Sangh , Branch Dhangar 

Colliery , C / o Sinha Bhawan Bastacolla , P . O . Dhangar , Distt. Dhanbad . 


PREȘENT : 

Sori A C . Sen , Presiding Omcor . 


APPFARANCEA 

For the employers - Shri S . K . Lodha , Partner, 
For the Worlmen - Shri Lala B , P . Sinha . 


STATE : Bihar 


INDUSTRY : Coal. 


Dhanbad , dated the 26th August, 1971 


AWARD 


Ministry of Labour and Rehabditation (Department of Labour and Employment) , 
Government of India , by its Order No. L , 2012 (88) - 71- LRII dated the 6th July , 1971 , 
referred under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947, an Industrial 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to the management of Dhansar 
Colllery of Messrs The Pure Dhansar Coal Company , P . O . Dhansar, (Dhanbad ) and 
their workmen in respect of the matter specified below to this Tribunal for adjudi 
cation . 


" Whether the action of the management of Dhansar Colllery of Messrs The 

Pure Dhangar Coal Company, Post Ofice Dhangar, District Dhanbad , in 
stopping Shu Rabindra Nath Biswal, Attendance Clerk from work with 
effect from the 15th February , 1971 is justified ? If not , to what relief 
Is he entitled ? " 


2 . The workmen fled their written statement on 30th July , 1971 and the manage 
ment filed their written statement-cum - rejoinder on 16th August, 1971. 


3 . Shri S K . Lodha , Partner , appeared for the employers and Shri Lala B . P . 
Sinha, representative of the workmen , appeared for the workmen , Both the parties 
on 23rd August, 1971 filed a joint petition of compromise dated 23rd August , 1971 
and prayed that an award be made in terms of the said agreement. 


4 . I have gone through the petition of compromise in which it is stated that 
the workman concerned , Shri R . N . Biswal will be paid a sum of Rs. 500 / - in full 
and final settlement of his claim against the management of Pure Dhansar Colliery . 
It is further stated in the petition of compromise that the workman will not claim 
reinstatement in his employment with the Pure Dhangar Colllery . 


5 . I have road and considered the above terms of the compromise and think 
they are fair and reasonable and in the interest of the parties and , therefore , I 
accept the same and record the compromise and make an award on the basis of the 
terms of settlement contained in the petition for compromise , which do form part 
of the award . 


4806 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/BHADRA 27 , 1893 [PART II 


6 . Let a copy of this ward be submitted to the Central Government under sec + 
tion 13 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 


( Sd.) A. C. SEN, 

Preslding Oncer. 


PEFORE THE HONOURABLE PRESIDING OFFICER 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 1 ) AT DHANBAD 


REFERENCE NO . 20 OF 1971 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the management of Dhangar Colllery of M / s . The 
Pure Dhansar Coal Company, P . O . Dhangar , Distt. Dhanbad . 

AND 


Their workyen represented by Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , Branch Dhangar 

Colllery , C / o . Sinha Bhavan Bastacolla , P . O . Dhangar, Distt. Dhanbad 


Terms of settlement 


The parties concerned in the above matter, most respectfully beg to submit : 


That the parties have mutually discussed over the matter and settled the dispute 
on the following terms. 


1 . It is agreed that the mangement of Pure Dhangar Colliery will pay to Shr 
R . N . Biswal, the workman concerned a sum of Rs, 500 / - (Rupees flye hundred only 
in full and Anal settiement of his claim against the management of Pure Dhansai 
Colliery . 


2 . It is agreed that the workman will not claim relnstatement in his employmen 
with the Pure Dhansai Colllery . 


3 . That the payment of the amount of Rs. 500 / - (Rupees Ave hundred ) as stated 
In para 1 above, wil: be made on 23rd August 1971, in the presence of Secretary 
Shri Lala B . P . Sinha , 


4 . It is agreed that copy of this settlement will be Aled before the Hon ble Pre 
siding Officer. Cenvial Government Industrial Tribunal (No . 1 ) at Dhanbad , to 
disposing of the adjudication proceedings pending before the said Tribunal in Refer 
ence No . 20 nf 1971 . 


5 . It is agreed that the parties will bear their respective cost of this proceedings 


That the parties pray that the Reference No. 20 of 1971 may kindly be dispergea 
of on the basis of the above terms of settlement between the parties. 


For the Employers 


S . K . LUDHA, 
For Pure Dhansar Coal Co. 
Partner . 


For the Workman 

LALA B . P . SINIIA , 
For Colliery Mazdoor Sangb 
Branch Dhansar Colliery , 

Secretary . 


(No. L / 2012/ 88 /71 - LRII. ) 


SEC. 3711 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27, 1893 4807 


New Delhi, the 9th September 1971 
$ 0 , 8418 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Industrial Tribunal, Bangalore in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the management of Messrg R . B . Seth Shreeram Durga 
prasad and Fatechand Narasingdas, Sankalapuram Mine, Post Box No . 38 , Hospet , 
Bellary District and their workmen , which was received by the Central Govern 
ment on the 28th August, 1971 . 
BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL IN MYSORE , BANGALORE 

Dated the 23rd August 1971 
PRESENT : 
Sri Narayan Rai Kudoor , B .A ., B .L ., Presiding Officer. 

RETERENCE No. 5 OF 1971 (CENTRAL ) 
I Ρατty : 
The workmen of M / s . R . B . Seth Shreeram Durgaprasad and Fatehchand 

Narasingadas, Sankalapuram Mine, P . B . No . 38, Hospet, Bellary 
District, 


Vs. 


II Party : 
( a ) The Management of M / s . R . B . Seth Shreeram Durgaprasad and Fateh 

chand Narasingadas, Şankalapuram Mine, P . B . No. 38, Hospet, Bellary 

District 
( b ) Sri G . Vadivelu and 5 others, Contractors, c / o The Agent, M / s . R . B . 

Seth Shreeram Durga Prasad and Fatehchand Narasingadas , Sankala 
puram Mine P . B . No. 38, Hospet, Bellary District. 

Order of Reference 
(Government Order No. 8 ( 24 ) / 70 -LR -IV dated 3 / 4 -3 - 1971) 

AWARD 
The Central Government, by its Order of refernce No. 8 ( 24 ) [ 70 -LR - IV dated 
3 / 4 - 3 - 1971 has referred an industrial dispute existing between the Employers in 
relation to the Management of Messrs , R B . Seth Shreeram Durga Prasad and 
Fatehchand Narasingadas, Mine Owners , Hospet and G . Vadivelu and 5 others, 
contractors , Sankalapuram Iron Ore Mine and their workmen , in exercise of the 
powers conferred by Section 7 ( A ) and clausę ( d ) of Sub - Şection ( 1 ) of Section 
10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (XIV of 1947 ) to this Tribunal for adju 
dication on the following point of dispute: 
" Whether the management of R . B . Seth Shreeram Durga Prasad and Fateh 

chand and Narasingadas, Mine Owners, Hospet or their Contractors 
namely ; Sarvashri (1) G . Vadivelu , ( 2 ) Pachappa (111) B . M . Setty (iv ) 
Kullayappa ( v ) Shreemathi Muniyamma and ( vi) Smt. Ameenabi are 
responsible to implement the recommendations of the Central Wage 
Board for Iron Ore Mining Industry to the piece rated workmen , said 
to be employed through the abovenamed contractors in their Sankala 
puram Iron Ore Mine, Hospet ? If so , to what relief are the workmen 

entitled and against whom ?" 
2 . On receipt of the above Reference , it was taken on flle as Central Reference 
No . 5 of 1971. The workmen repregented by the President, Industrial and General 
Labour Union , Hospet, Bellary District , is the I Party . The Management of Messrs. 
R . B . Seth Shreeram Durgaprasad and Fatehchand Narasingadas Sankalapuram 
Mine and Sri G . Vadively and 5 others contractors are II Party ( A ) and ( B ) res 
pectively . 

3 . Notices were issued to the parties, The I Party workmen and the II Party , 
A , the Management, have sent separate written intimations stating that the matter 
in dispute under reference was amicably settled between the workmen and the 
management and the proceedings may be dropped . Among the II Party - B , one of 
the contractors by name, Vadivelu has sent his statement denying his liability to 
implement the recommendations of the Central Wage Board for Iron Ore Mine 
Industry to the piece rated workmen . 

4 . The effect of the representations sent by the I Party - workmen and the Mana 
gement is that the demand raised by the workmen covered under the Order of 


4808 THE GAZETTE OB INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27, 1893 (PART II 


Refernece is not pressed by the workmen for a decision at the hands of this Tribu 
pal. That being the case , there is no need to consider the plea put forward by 
one of the contractors in his statement, that he is not liable to implement the 
recommendations of the Central Wage Board . In view of the stand taken by the 
workmen and the Management, the reference is liable to be rejected. 

5 . In the result, I passes an Award rejecting the Reference. 
0 . Under the circumstances, I make no order as to costs . 

NARAYAN RAI K DOOR , 

Presiding Officer . 
[NO, 8 (24 )/ 70-LR -IV .) 


New Delhi, the 14th September 1971 
S . O . 3419 . Whereas an Industrial dispute exists between the employers in rela 
tion to the management of East Nimcha Colliery , Post Omce Jaykaynagar District 
Burdwan (hereinafter referred as the said Company ) and their workmen represented 
by the Colliery Mazdoor Congress (HMP ) , Ushagram , Asansol, District Burdwan 
(hereinafter referred to as the said Union ) , 

And whereas the said Company and the said Union have by a written agree 
jent in pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , agreed to refer the said digpute to arbitration 
of the person specifled therein , and a copy of the said arbitration agreement has 
been forwarded to the Central Government. 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 3 ) of the section 
10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the said arbitration agreement. 

Agreement 
(Under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947) 

BETWEEN 
NAME OF THE PARTIES : 
Representing the employers- - Shri H , C . Saini, Agent, East Nimcha Colliery , 

P . O . Jaykaynagar , District Burdwan . 
Representing the workmen , Shri Vinay Kumar, Joint Secretary Colliery 

Mazdoor Congress (HMP ) , Ushagram , Asansol, District Burdwan . 
It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial disputes 
to the arbitration of Shri O . Venkatachalam , Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) , 
New Delhi, 

( i) Speciflc matters in dispute : — 
" Whether the management of East Nimcha Colliery Post Office Jaykay 

nagar, District Burdwan is justified in making deduction of wages 
for 6 days during week ending 19th June, 1971 from the workers 
employed in Pit Nog. 2 , 3 and 4 of their colllery under the proviso 
to Section 9 ( 2 ) of Payment of Wages Act, 1938 and the rules framed 
thereunder ? If not, to what relief are the workmen concerned entiti 

ed ? " 
(11) Details of the parties to the disputo including the names and address of 

Estts. Or undertaking involved . - Last Nimcha Colllery P . O . Jaykay 

nagar , Distt. Burdwan . 
( iii ) Name of the Union , if any representing the workmen in question . . 

Colliery Mazdoor Congress (HMP , Ushagram , Asansol, Distt . 

Burdwan . 
(Iv ) Total number of workmen employed in the under -taking affected . - 2800 . 
(v ) Estimated Number of workmen affected or ilkely to be affected by the 

dispute . - About 1400 . 
We further agree that the decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on ug, 

The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of six months or within 
guch further time, as to extended by mutual agreement between us in writing . In 


Szc . 3 (11) ] TAE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 /BHADRA 27 , 1893 4809 


cage the award is not made within the period aforementioned , the refernece to 
arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free to negotiate 
for fresh arbitration . 

Signature of the parties . 
(Sd.) H . C . SAINI, 

24 - 8 - 71 . 
Representing the employers . 
( Sd .) VINAY KUMAR . 

24-8-71 

Representing the workmen . 
Witness : 
1 . ILLEGIBLE, 

24 - 8 - 71 . 
2. ILLEGIBLE, 
24 - 8 -71. 

[ No . L / 1913 / 11 / 71 - LRIT. ] 
( श्रम और रोषागार विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 14 सितम्बर, 1971 
का प्रा० 3419. - यतः ईस्ट निम्चा कोलियरी, डाकघर जेके नगर, जिला बर्दवान ( इसके 
बाद उक्त कम्पनी के रूप में निर्देशित किया गया है ) के प्रबन्ध मण्डल से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके 
कर्मकारों के बीच, जिनका प्रतिनिधित्व कोलियरी मजदूर कांग्रेस ( एच ० एम ० पी० ) उषा ग्राम , 
भासनसोल, जिला बर्दवान ( इसके बाद उक्त यूनियन के रूप में निर्देशित किया गया है ) करती 
है, एफ औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 

और यत : उक्त नियोजकों और कर्मकारों ने प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 
का 14 ) की धारा 10 - क की उपधारा ( 1 ) के उपबन्धों के अनुसरण में एक लिखित करार 
द्वारा उक्त विवाद को उसमें वर्णित व्यक्ति के माध्यस्थम के लिए निर्देशित करने का करार लिया 
है और उक्त माध्यस्थम करार की एक प्रति केन्द्रीय सरकार को भेजी गई हैं ; 

___ अतः , अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम, 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10- 2 
की उपधारा ( 3 ) के उपबन्धों के अनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त माध्यस्थम , करार को , एतद्वारा 
प्रकाशित करती है । 

( प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 की धारा 10-क के अधीन ) 


करार 


पक्षकारों के नाम : 
नियोजकों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले : श्री एच ० सी० सैनी, अभिकर्ता, ईस्ट निम्चा 

__ कोलियरी, डाकघर जेकेनगर , जिला बर्दवान 
कर्मकारों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले श्री विनय कुमार , संयुक्त सचिव , कोलियरी , 

मजदूर कांग्रेस ( एच ० एम०पी० ) उषाग्राम , 

आसनसोल, जिला बर्दवान । 
पक्षकारों के बीच निम्नलिखित प्रौद्योगिक विवाद को एतद्द्वारा श्री प्रो . वेंकटाचलम, मुख्य 
श्रमायुक्त (केन्द्रीय ) , नई दिल्ली के मध्यस्थ्म के लिए निर्देशित करने का करार किया गया है । 
1. विनिर्दिष्ट विवाद ग्रस्त विषय : 

" क्या ईस्ट निम्चा कोलियरी , डाकघर जेके 
नगर , जिला बर्दवान के प्रबन्धमण्डल का 
मजदूरी भुगतान अधिनियम, 1936 की 


4810 THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 1893 [ PART II 


धारा 9 ( 2 ) के परन्तुफ और उसके अन्तर्गत 
बनाए गए नियमों के अधीन अपनी कोलियरी 
की पिट संख्या 2, 3 और 4 में नियोजित 
कर्मकारों से 19 - 6 - 1971 को समाप्त 
होने वाले सप्ताह के दौरान 6 दिन की मजदूरी 
की कटौती करना न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं 
तो संबंधित फर्मकार फिस अनुतोष के हकदार 


हैं ? " 


( 2 ) विवाद के पक्षकारों का विवरण, जिसमें ईस्ट निम्चा कोलियरी , डाक ब र जेकेनगर , जिला 

अन्तवलित स्थापन या उपक्रम का नाम और बर्दवान । 
पता भी सम्मिलित है 


( 3 ) यदि कोई संघ प्रश्नगत कर्मकारों का प्रति - 
. निधित्व करता हो तो उसका नाम 


कोलियरी मजदूर कांग्रस ( एच ० एम० पी०) 
उषाग्राम , आसनसोल , जिला बर्दवान । 


2800 


( 4 ) प्रभावित उपक्रम में नियोजित कर्मकारों की 
कुल संख्या 


( 5 ) विवाद द्वारा प्रभावित या सम्भाव्यतः लगभग 1400 
प्रभावित होने वाले कर्मकारों की प्रषिकालत 
संख्या 


हम यह करार भी करते हैं कि मध्यस्थ का विनिश्चय हम पर पाबद्ध कर होगा । 


मध्यस्थ अपना पंचाट छ: मास की कालावधि या इतने और समय के भीतर जो हमारे 
बीच पारस्परिक लिखित करार द्वारा बढ़ाया जाय , देगा । यदि पूर्व वणित कालावधि के भीतर 
पंचाट नहीं दिया जाता तो माध्यस्थम के लिए निवश स्वतः रद्द हो जायगा और हम नये माध्यस्थम 
के लिए बातचीत करने को स्वतंत्र होंगे । 


पक्षकारों के हस्ताक्षर , 


साक्षी 


ह 


1 . ह – अस्पष्ट 
24 - 8 - 1971 


- एच ० सी० सैनी 

24-- 8 - 71 
नियोजकों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले 


2. ह – अस्पष्ट 
24 - 8 - 1971 


ह ---विनय कुमार 

24 - 8 - 71 
कर्मकारों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले 


[ संख्या एल0/ 1913/11 / 71 - एल० आर० - 2 ] 


Sec. 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/ BHADRA 27, 1893 4811 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 28th May 1971 
S . O . 3420 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Kotma 
Colliery of Associated Cement Company Limited , Post Omce Kotma. District 
Shahdol (Madhya Pradesh ) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed . 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the sald 
dispute for adjudication , 

Now , therefore , in excrcise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Gov 
crnment Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur , constituted under section 7A of the said 
Act. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Kotma Colliery of Associated 

Cement Company limited , Post Office Kotma Colliery , District Shahdol, 
Madhya Pradesh , In not placing the following 14 pump drivers , who 
operate more than one pump of 35 HP or above, in category IV , with 
effect from the 15th August , 1967 , as per the Recommendations of the 
Central Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry as contained in Appen 
dix V , Volume II, is justified ? If not , to what relief the workmen 
concerned are entitled and from what date ? " 


rer. 


•••••••••••••• 


Names of the workmen 
I . Shri S . N . Mishra 

__ . Pump Drver . 
Ramgopal 

Rajaramn 
" Ramnarain 
» Rampromode 

Lurjhur . 
Ramcharit 
Kailashnath . 
Budha 
Jai Singh 
A. C . Chakraborty . 
Negiram 
Gangaram 
Ramujagr 

INo . 1 / 76 / 70 - LR.II . 1 
मादेश 

नई दिल्ली, 29 मई , 19711 
का०मा० 3420 - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिष्टि 
विषयों के बारे में एसोसियेटिड सीमेट कम्पनी लिमिटेड डाकघर कोत्मा कोलियरी , जिला 
सहडोल , ( मध्य प्रदेश ) की कोत्मा कोलियरी के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके 
कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 

और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है ; 

प्रतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा उक्त 
विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण 
जबलपूर को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशिन करती है । 


1812 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 /BHADRA 27; 1893 [ PART H . . 


अनुसूची 
" क्या एसोसियेटेड सीमेंट कम्पनी लिमिटेड, अकघर कोत्मा कालियरी, जिला 
शहडोल , मध्य प्रदेश की कोरमा कोलियरीके प्रवध मण्डल के निम्नलिखित 14 पंप 
पालकों को , जो 35 एच०पी० या उससे अधिक शापिस के एक से अधिक पंप 
चलाते हैं कोयला खान उद्योग सम्बन्धी केन्द्रीय मंजदूरी बोर्ड की सिफारिशो के 
अनुसार जो परिशिष्ट V , खण्ड में दी गई हैं , 15 अगस्त , 1967 से श्रेणी IV 
में न रखने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? 
यदि नही, तो सम्बन्धित कर्मकार किस अनुतोष के और किस तारीख से हफदार है? " 

कर्मकारों के नाम 
1 श्री एस० एन० मिश्र 

पंप चालक 
2 श्री रामगोपाल 
3 श्री राजाराम 
4 श्री रामनारायण 
5 श्री राम प्रामोद 
6 श्री लर्खर . 
7 श्री रामचरित 
8 श्री केलासनाथ 
9 श्री बुधा . 
10 श्री जय सिंह . 
11 श्री ए० सी० चक्रवर्ती 
12 श्री नेगीराम . 
13 श्री गंगाराम . 
14 श्री रामुजा गिर 

[ सं० 1/ 76/ 70 - एल०पार० - 2] 
New Delhi, the 14th June 1971 
S . O . 3421 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Chasnalla 
Colliery of Messrs Indian Iron and Steel Company Limited , Post Office Pather 
dih , District Dhanbad , Messrs Pohlig -Heckel- Bleichert Vereinigte Maschinen 
fabrike Ag. Ropeways and Mechanical Handling Plants, Post Office Patherdih , 
District Dhanbad and Messrs P . S . Golan and Company, Care of Chasnalla Col 
llery , Post Office Patherdih , District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the gadd 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Cen 
tral Government Industrial Tribunal (No . 1 ) , Dhanbad , constituted under sec 
tion 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the demand of the following workmen for payment of wages in 

accordance with the recommendations of the Central Wage Board for 
Coal Mining Industry as accepted by the Government of India is 

Justifled ? If 80 , 
( a ) the relief to which the workmen are entitled ; 
( b ) the date from which they are entitled to the relief; and 


Sec. ( 11 )FTAR GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27, 1893 4813 . 


(c ) is the relief to be claimed from the management of the Chasnalle 

Colllery of Messrs Indian Iron and Steel Company Limited or from 
Messrs Pohlig - Heckel -Bleichert Vereinigte Maschinenfabrike Ag. 

Ropeways and Mechanical Handling Plants and Messrs P . S . Golan , 
and Company ? " 


S . No. 


Name of the workmen 


Designation 


Mechanical Fitter. 


ENGLPER 


I . Shri Darwara Singh 
2 . Shri Mahesh Prasad 

Shri Gauri Shankar 
4. Shri Surendra Singh 

Shri S . N . Pandey 
Shri Nitya Singh 
Shri Ranvir Singh 
Shri Swar Singh 
Shri Md. Khalil 
Shri Shakti Pado Modi 
Shri Jodh Singh 
Shri Md. Idris 

Shri P . $ . Marma 
14 . Shri Gaulka Singh 

Shri Chandra Yadav 
16. Shri S . K . Ahmed 
17. Shri Kamati Singh 


••••••••••••• 


Exp. Fitter 
Fitter Helper 
Weldet" G . Cutter 

M. Fitter 
Watchmen 
Mechanical Fitter 
Watchman 


er 


Is. 


[ No. 2/ 162770 - LRII ]. 


नई दिल्ली , 14 जून , 1971 
का० प्रा०3421 - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स ईडियन आयरन एन्ड स्टील कम्पनी लिमिटेड की चासनाला कोलियरी, डाकघर 
पाथरडीह, जिला धनवाद के प्रबन्धतंत्र मैसर्स पोहलिक हेकेल-स्लीपर्ट बीरीनिगटे माश्चिनन फेनाइक 
एजेंट रोपवेज एन्ड मेकैनिकल हैडलिंग प्लांट्स , डाकघर पाथरडीह, जिला धनवाद और मैसर्स बी० एस० 
गोलन एन्ड कम्पनी मार्फत चासनाला कोलियरी, डाकघर पाथरडीह, जिला धनवाद के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजकों और उनके कमकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निदशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है ; 

प्रतः, अब, औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14) की धारा 10 की उपधारा 
( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये , केन्द्रीय सरकार एसद्वारा उक्त विवाद 
को उम्त अधिनियम की धारा 7- 2 के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार औद्योगिक अधिकरण ( स० 1 ) 
धनवाद को न्यायनिणयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 

अनुसूची 
" क्या निम्नलिखित कर्मकारों की , भारत सरकार द्वारा स्वीकृत कोयला खान उद्योग सम्बन्धी 
केन्द्रीय मजदूरी बोर्ड की सिफारिशों के अनुसार, मजदूरी के संदाय की अदायगी की मांग न्यायोचित है ? 
यदि हां , तो 


( क ) कर्मकार किस अनुतोष के हकदार हैं ; 
( ख) वे किस सारीख से अनुतोष के हकदार हैं ; और 


4814 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/ BHADRA 27 , 1893 [ PART II 


( ग ) क्या अनुतोष का दावा मैसर्स इंडियन आयरन एन्ड स्टील कम्पनी लिमिटेड की चासत 

नाला कोलियरी के प्रबधमण्डल से या मैसर्स पोहलिकहेकेल ठलीचर्ट वीरीनीगटे 
मारियनेन फैआइक एजेंट रोपवे एन्छ मेकेनिकल हैडलिंग प्लांट्स और मैसर्स पी० 
एस० गोलन एन्ड कम्पनी से किया जायगा ? " 


क्रम सं० 


कर्मकार का नाम 


पदनाम 


मेकेनिकल फिटर 


1 श्री दरबारा सिंह 
2 श्री महेश प्रसाद 
3 श्री गौरी शकर 
4 श्री सुरेन्द्र सिंह . 
5 श्री एस० एन० पांडे 
6 श्री नित्या सिंह . 
7 श्री रनवीर सिंह . 
8 श्री स्वार सिह . 
9 श्री मुहम्मद खलील . 
10 श्री शक्ति पादो मोदी 
11 श्री जोघ सिंह . 
12 श्री मुहम्मद इद्रिस . 
13 श्री पी० एस० मार्मा . 
14 श्री गौलका सिंह . 
15 श्री चन्द्र यादव . 
16 श्री एस० के० अहमद 
17 श्री कमाती सिंह . 


एक्स प० फिटर 
फिटर हैल्पर 


बल्डर जी० कटर 


एम० फिटर 
चौकीदार 


मेकेनिकल फिटर 
चौकीदार 


[ सं० 1/ 162/ 70 - एल०पार० - 2] 


New Delhi, the 8th July 1971 
S . 0 . 3422. --- Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industria 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Hlrakhun 
Colliery, Post Office Neturia , District Purulia , and their workmen in respect of 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the sald 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , threfore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern . 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act , 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Hirakhum Colliery , Post Office 

Neturla , District Purulia in dismissing Sri Panchanan Banerjee , Lam 
Chærgeman , with effect from the 6th February, 1971 is justified ? 11 
not, to what relief is the workman concerned entitled ? " 

INo. L - 1912 / 87 / 71 -LR.II.] 


SHC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/ BHADRA 27 , 18934815 


__ नई दिल्ली, 6 जुलाई, 1971 
का० मा० 3422 . ~- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची 
में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में हीराखन कोलियरी, डाकघर नरिया , जिला पुलिया के 
प्रवन्धसे सम्बब नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौधोगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 

और यन : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करना 
बांछनीय समझती है ; 

अतः अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम, 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 
की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खंड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतदद्वारा उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 -2 के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार 
प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , कलकसा को न्याय निर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करती है 

अनुसूची 
" क्या हीराखुनी कोलियरी, डाकधर नेतुरिया, जिला पुरुलिया के प्रबन्ध मंडल की 

श्री पंचानन बनर्जी, लेम्प चार्जमेन को 6 फरवरी , 1971 से पदच्यूत 
करने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं , तो सम्बन्धित कर्मकार कि 
अनुतोष का हकदार है ? " 

[ सं० एल० 19 12/ 67/ 71-एल०पार II ] 


New Delhi, the 26th July 1971 
8 . 0 . 3423. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Nowrozabad Colliery of 
Associated Cement Company Limited , Post Office Nowrozabad Colliery , District 
Shahdol (Madhya Pradesh ) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conterred by clause ( d ) of sub - sec 
tion ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur , constituted under Bection 7A of the 
said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the seven paid festival holidays granted by the management of 
Nowrozabad Colliery of Associated Cement Company Limited , Post Office Now 
rozabad Colliery, District Shahdol to their workmen should count as days of 
attendance under the terms of authorised leave under section 25 ( B ) of the Indus 
trial Risputes Act, 1947 for the purpose of payment of lay -off compensation ? It 
Bo to what relief the workmen who have not been paid lay off compensation are 
entitled ? " 

[ No. 1/ 51 / 70 - LR. II.] 


नई दिल्ली 26 जलाई, 1971 
का०मा० 3423 . - न्यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनि 
दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में एसोसियेटेड सीमेंट कम्पनी लिमिटेड डाकघर नोरोजाबाद कोलियरी 
जिला शहडोल ( मध्य प्रदेश ) की नौरोजाबाद कोलियरी से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के 
बीच एक प्रौढोगिक विबाद विद्यमान है ; 


4816 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 /BHADRA 27, 1893 [PART 11 


मौर यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है ; 


पसः मब मोद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम 1947 ( 1947 का 14) की धारा 10 की उप 
धारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा उक्त 
विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्यागिक अधिकरण 
जवलपुर को न्यायमिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 
" क्या एसोशियेटेड सीमेंट कम्पनी लिमिटेड डाकघर नोरोजाबाद कोलियरी, जिला 
शहडोल की नोरोजाबाद कोलियरी के प्रबन्ध मंडल द्वारा अपने कर्मकारों को मंजूर किये 
गये सात सवेसन उत्सव अवकाश दिनों को कामबन्दी के प्रतिकर के भुगतान के लिए प्रोद्योगिक 
विवाद अधिनियम, 1947 की धारा 25 ( ख ) के अधीन प्राधिकृत छुट्टी के निबन्धनों के अनुसार 
उपस्थिति के दिनों के रुप में गिनी जानी चाहिए में यवि हो , तो कर्मकार जिन्हें कामबन्दी 
के प्रतिकर का भुगतान नहीं किया गया , किस अनुतोष के हकदार हैं ? 

[सं० 1/ 51/ 70-एल० पार ०- 2] 


New Delhi, the 4th August 1971 
8 , 0 . 8424 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to themanagement of the Andhra 
Cement Company Limited , Vijaywada and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the sald 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exeroise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri T . 
Chandrasekhara Reddy , as the Presiding Officer with headquarters at Hyderabad 
and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Messrs Andhra Cement Company 

Limited , Vijayawada , in paying to the re -employed workers of Jayan 
thipuram mines wages lower than those they were drawing at the 
time of their retrenchment in June, 1988, is justified ? If not , to what 
relief are the workmen entitled ? 

INo . L- 29011 / 13 / 71- LR- IV .] 


नई दिल्ली , 4 अगस्त 1971 


का०मा० 3424 . - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाय 
अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में आन्ध्रसीमेंट कम्पनी लिमिटेड , विजयवाडा के प्रवध से 
सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है । 

___ और यत: केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्याय निर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करना 
बांछनीय सनाती है । 

अतः अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 7 क 
और धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खंड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार एतवद्वारा एक औद्योगिक अधिकरण गठित करती है जिसके पीठासीन अधिकारी 


Sec . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : S8PTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27, 1893 4817 


श्री टी० चन्द्रशेखर रेड्डी होंगे , जिनका मुख्यालय हैदराबाद होगा और उक्त विवाद को उक्त 
औद्योगिक अधिकरण को न्याय निर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करती है । 


" क्या मैसर्स मांग्घ्र सीमेंट कम्पनी लिमिटेड , विजयवाडा के प्रबन्ध मंडल की जयं 

पुरम माइन्स के पुनर्नियुक्त कर्मक्चरों को जून , 1968 में हुई उनकी छटनी 
के समय मिलने वाली मजदूरी से कम मजदूरी देने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित 
है? यदि नहीं तो कर्मकार किस अतुतोष के हकदार है ? 

[ सं० एल० 29011 ( 13) / 71-एल० प्रार० 4] 
S . 0 . 3425. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Goa Quarry , 
Mapusa, Goa owned by Shri M . D . Sawkar and thair workman in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to rafer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub- section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Gov 
ernment Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) Bombay constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action taken by the management of Goa Quarry , Mapusa Goa 

owned by Shri M . D . Sawkar in terminating the services of Shri 
Atmaram Bhau More, Ex- Crusher on the 3rd August , 1970 was Justi . 
fled ? If not , to what reliet is the workman entitled ? " 

[ No. L-29012 / 13/ 71-LRIV . ] 
का० प्रा० 3425 . -- - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची 
में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में श्री एम० डी० सावकर की गोवा क्वरी, मापूसा, गोवा के 
प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके "कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है । 

और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्याय निर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करना 
बांछनीय समझती है । 

अत : अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 
की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खंड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतदद्वारा उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार 
प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण ( संख्या 2 ) बम्बई को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करती है । 

अनुसूची 
" क्या श्री एम० सी० सावकर की गोया क्वैरी, मापूसा , गोवा के प्रबन्ध मंडल की 

श्री प्रात्माराम भाऊ मोर, भूतपूर्व क्रशर की सेवाएं 3 अगस्त , 1970 को 
समाप्त करने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित थी ? यदि नहीं , तो मम्मकार किस 
अनुतोष का हकदार है ? 

[सं० एल० 29012/13/ 71 -एल० प्रार० 4] 

New Delhi, the 12th August 1971 
S . O , 3426,- -- Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Megsrs 
Kalyanpur Lime and Cement Works Limited , Banjari and their workmen in re 
pect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed : 


4818 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 /BHADRA 27 , 1893 [PART II -- 


And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - dec 
tion ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) . the Cen 
tral Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) Dhanbad constituted under section 7A 
of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Messrs Kalyanpur Lime and 

Cement Works Limited , Banjari on the 2nd August, 1960 was justi 
fied in not allowing Shri Usman Mian on duty after recovery from 
accident ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 

INo. 36 ( 18 ) / 68- LR-IV .] 
R . KUNJITHAPADAM, Under Secy . 


नई दिल्ली , 12 अगस्त , 1971 


का० प्रा० 3426 - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स कल्याणपुर लाइम एण्ड सीमेन्ट वर्क्स लिमिटेड , बनजारी के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है । 


अतः अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14) की धारा 10 की उपधारा 
( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा उक्त विवाद 
को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण ( सं० 2 ) 
धनवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 

अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स कल्याणपुर लाइम एंड सीमेन्ट वर्क्स लिमिटेड , बनजारी के प्रबन्ध मण्डल , की श्री 

उसमान मियां को दुर्घटना से स्वस्थता प्राप्त करने के बाद काम पर न आने देने की 
2 अगस्त , 1960 की कार्रवाई न्यायोचित थी ? यदि नहीं तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष 
का हकदार है ? " 

[संख्या 36 ( 13) / 68- एल० पार० - 4 ] 

प्रार० कुंजीयापदम , प्रवर सचिव । 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1971 
S . 0 . 3427. - Whereas it appeare to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
The Selected Baraboni Coal Company Private Limited , 18 , Netaji Subhas Road , 
Calcutta - 1 have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) ot 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirty first 
day of July , 1969. 

[ No. S. 36018 / 12 / 71 - PF . II (1) .] 


Sec . 3 ( 11 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 189 , 4815 


- 


- 


- 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 4 अगस्त , 1971 
का प्रा 3427. ---यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि दी सिलैक्टिड 
बरबौनी कोल कम्पनी प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , 18, नेताजी सुभाष रोर , कलकत्ता- 1 नामक स्य पन से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजक और कर्मचारियो को बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचार, भविष्य निधि और 
कुदम्ब पेशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने 
चाहिए । 

___ अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1969 को जुलाई के इकत्तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस9350 18 ( 12 ) / 71-पी०एफ० 2 (i ) ] 
S . O . 3428. - In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 8 of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ), the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter , 
hereby specifles with effect from the 31st July , 1969 the establishment known as 
The Selccted Baraboni Coal Company Private Limited , 18 , Netaji Subhas Road , 
Calcutta - 1 for the purposes of the said proviso . 

[ No. S. 35018 / 12/ 71 - PF. II ( ii ) .] 
का० प्रा० 3428. - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि 
अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग 
करते हुए , सम्बद्ध विषय में अावश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात 31 जुलाई, 1969 मे दी सिलैक्टिड बरबौनी 
कोल कम्पनी प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , 18, नेताजी सुभाष रोड , कलकत्ता- 1 , नामक स्थापन को एतवार 
उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनो के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ सं० एस० 350 18 ( 12 ) / 71-पी०एफ० - 2ii ) ) ] 


S . O . 3429. - - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Garkals Private Limited , A -416 , Defence Colony, New Delhi- 3 have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employces Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicablo to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies tlie provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the Arst day of 
July. 1970 . 

[ No. S. 35019 (40) /11 - PF. II (1).] 
का० प्रा० 34 29. - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स गरकल्स 
प्राडोट लिमिटेड, ए - 416, सिफेन्स कालोनी , नई दिल्ली - 3 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और 
कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुदम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19) के उपबन्ध उन स्थापन को लागकर जाने चाहिएं ; 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लाग करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 की जुलाई के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस० 35019( 40 )/ 71-पी०एफ० 2(1)] 


4820 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 /BHADRA 27, 1893 [ PART II 


S . O . 3430 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter , hereby 
specifies with effect from the 1st Septemer , 1970 th eestablishment known as 
Messrs Garkals Private Limited , A -416 , Defence Colony, New Delhi - 3 for the pur 
pose of the said proviso . 

[ No. S. 35019 (40) / 71- PF.II-( ii ).] 


का० प्रा० 3430. ----कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 
1952 ( 19 5 2 का 19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार इस विषय में आवश्यक जांच कर लेने के पश्चात् एतद्वारा गरकल्स प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , 
ए - 416, डिफेन्स कालोनी , नई दिल्ली - 3 नामक स्थापन को 1970 की जुलाई के प्रथम दिन से उक्त 
परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ सं० एस० 35019( 40 )/ 71-पी०एफ० 2( ii )] 
S . O . 3431, - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Pharma Mach. 10 - Chaulpatty Road , Calcutta- 10, have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952) , should be made applicable to the said establishment ; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirty - first day 
of March , 1970 . 

[ No . S. 85018 (7) /71- PF. II .] 
का० प्रा० 3431. - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मेसर्स फार्मा मैच, 
10 -चौलपट्टी रोड , कलकत्ता- 10 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या 
इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लाग करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के मार्च के इकत्तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस० 350 18 ( 7 )/ 71-पी०एफ० 2 ] 
S . O . 3432. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Uma Castings, Amman Kulam Road , P , N . Palayam , Coimbatore - 18 have 
Agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on th : first day of 
March, 1971 . 

[ No. S. 35019/15/ 71 - PF . II .] 
का०मा० 343 2. - अतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स उमा कास्टिंगस , 
अम्मन कुलम रोड़ , पी० एन० पालायम, कोइम्बटूर- 18 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्म 
चारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि 
अधिनियम 1952 (1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लाग किए जाने चाहिए ; 


Sec. 3 ( 11 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27, 1893 4821 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त , शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1971 के मार्च के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस० 35019 ( 15 ) / 71-पी०एफ० 2 ] 
S . O . 3433. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishments known as 
Messrs Advance Paints Private Limited , 125, Nagindas Master Road , Fort , Bombay 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 

Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said 
• establishment ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notincation shall be deemed to have come into force on the Arst day of 
March, 1970 . 

___ [ No. 8( 217) / 70- PF .II.] 
का० प्रा० 3433. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स एडवांस 
पेन्टस प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, 125, नगीनदास मास्टर रोड, फोर्ट , मुम्बई, नामक स्थान से सम्ब : नियोजक 

और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवार 
पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 (1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

अतः, अब उक्त अधिनियम उपधारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के मार्च, के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[संख्या 8 ( 217 )/ 70-पी०एफ० 2] 
S . 0 . 3434. In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter , 
hereby specifies with effect from the first day of December , 1970 the establishment 
known as Messrs Yatin Industries , Old Madras Road , Bangalore - 14 for purposes 
1 of the said proviso . 

[ No. S.35019 (14 ) / 71- PF .II ( i) .] 
का० प्रा० 3434. - -- केन्द्रीय सरकार , कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और फूटम्ब पेंशन निधि 
अधिनियम , 1952 ( 19 5 2 का 19 ) की धारा 6 के परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हु , 
इन विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात , दिसम्बर , 1970 के प्रथम दिन से मैसर्स पत्तिन्नों इण्डस्ट्रीज , 
प्रोल्ड मद्रास रोड, बंगलोर 14 कोएतदद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के उद्देश्यों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ संख्या एस० 350 19 (14 )/ 71-पी० एफ० - 2 ( ii )] 


S . O . 3435 — Whereas It appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 

Messrs Contemporary Arts and Crafts , 19, Nepean Sea Road , Bombay - 6 , have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirtieth day 
rof September , 1970. 

[ No . S. 35017 / 1 / 71 - PT . II (i ) . ] 


4822 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 1893 [ PART II 


का०मा० 3435.-- -- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स कनटेम्परेरी 
पार्टस एण्ड क्राफ्टस- 19, नैपीन सी रोड , मुम्बई- 6 स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की 
बहु संख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवार पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 
1952 ( 1962 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं ; 

अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम , को धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्त्र उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के सितम्बर, के तीसव दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस . 35017 ( 1 )/ 71-पी०एफ० 2 ( 1 )] 


$ . 0 . 3436 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 5 . 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government, atter making necessary enquiry into the matter , 
hereby specifles with effect from the 30th September , 1970 the establishment known 
as Messrs Contemporary Arts and Crafts , 19 , Nepean Sea Road , Bombay- 6 for 
the purposes of the said proviso . 

[ No. S. 35017 / 1 / 71- PF .II ( ii ). ] 
का० प्रा० 3436. - - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवार पेंशन निधि अधिनियम 
1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार इस विषय में आवश्यक जांच कर लेने के पश्चात् एतद्वारा मैसर्स कनटेम्परेरी पार्ट स 
एण्ड क्राफ्ट्स , 19 नैसीन सी रोड , बम्बई , 6 नामक स्थापन को 30सितम्बर , 1970 से उक्त परन्तुक 
के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ संख्या एस० 350 17 ( 1 ) / 71 -पी० एफ० 2 (ii ) ] 


SO , 3437, -- Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Amar Automobiles , 46, Wadi Bunder , Bombay - 10 have agreed that the . 
provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 
1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establishment ; 
___ Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirtieth day 
of June, 1970 . 

___ [ No . S .35017 / 16 / 71 - PFII..] 
का० प्रा० 3437. -यत: केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मेसर्स अमर पाटो 
मोबाइलस , 46, वादी बुदेर बम्बई- 10 नामक स्थापन से सबंद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहु 
संख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कु टुम्ब पेन्शन निधि अधिनियम , 
1952 (1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 )द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के जून के तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस० 5017 ( 16 )/ 71-पी०एफ - 2 ] 


S . 0 . 3438. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Bagaria Commercial Company , 17 Ganesh Chandra Avenue , Calcutta -13. 


SEC. 3 ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/ BHADRA 27, 1893 4823 


have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now , therefore, in cxercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirty - first 
day of March , 1970 . 

[ No . S. 35018 ( 14 ) / 71- PF .II - (1). ] 
का० प्रा० 3438 - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैमर्स बगारिया 
कमर्शियल कम्पनी , 17- गणेश चन्द्र एवेन्यु कलकत्ता -13 नामक स्थापन से सबंद्ध नियोजक और 
कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम 1952 (1952 को 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हु ? केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के मार्च के इकत्तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संभ्या एस 0- 35018 ( 14 )/ 71-पी०एफ०- 2 i] 


S . O , 3439 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 of 
+ the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, hereby 
specifles with effect from the 31st March, 1970 the establishment known as Messrs 
Bagaria Commercial Company , 17 -Ganesh Chandra Avenue, Calculta -13 for the 
purposes of the said proviso , 

। [ No . S. 35018 /14/ 71- PF.IT( ii). 
का० प्रा० 3439. -- केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेशन निधि , 
अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 दा 19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए , सम्बद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् 31 मार्च, 1971 से मैसर्स बगारिया 
कशियल कम्पनी, 17-गणेश चन्द्र ऐवेन्यू , कलकत्ता- 1 3 नामक स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा उक्त परन्तुक 
के प्रयोजनो ने लिए विनिदिष्ट करती है । 

[ सं० एस०- 35018 ( 14)/ 71-पी०एफ० 2 ( i) ] 


S . O . 3440 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishinent known as 
"Messrs Narankar Auto Engineering Works, G . T . Road , Goraya, District Jullundur 
have agreed that the provişions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 

Pension Fund Act , ( 19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to the said esta 
blishment ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
- of the said Act to the said establishment . 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
..January , 1971 . 

[ No. S. 35019 / 41 / 71- PF . II (1) ] 
का० प्रा० 3440. - -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स नरंकार पाटो 
इन्जीनियरिग वर्स , जी0 टी . रोड , गोराया , जिला जलन्धर नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्व नियोजक और 
‘कर्मचारियों की बहुमंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम 1952 (.193.2 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


4824 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 /BHADRA 27, 1893 (PART II — . 


अतः, पब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उत्त स्थापन को एसद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1971 की जनवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस०- 35019 ( 41)/ 71-पी०एफ०2(1 ) ] 
8 . 0 , 3441,-- In exercise of the powers conferred by Arst proviso to section 6 of 
tho Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) . 
tho Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, hereby 
specifes with effect from the first day of January , 1971 the establishment known as 
Messrs Narankar Auto Engineering Works, G . T , Road , Goraya, District Jullundur. 
for the purposes of the said proviso . 

[ No. S . 35019 / 41 / 71- PF.II ( 11 ) ] . 
का पा० 3441. - केन्द्रीय सरकार , कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि , 
अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए , सम्बद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात जनवरी 1971 के प्रयम दिन से मैसर्स 
निरंकार पाटो इंजीनियरिंग वर्क्स, जी० टी० रोड, गोराया, जिला जालन्धर नामक स्थापन को 
एतद्द्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ संख्या एस- 35019( 41)/ 71-पी० एफ० 2 (ii) ] 
S . 0 . 3442. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Tara Tiles , Bandora , Ponda, Goa have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (4 ) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirty - first day 
of January , 1970 . 

[ No. 8-35019 ( 84 ) 471- PF.II. 
का० प्रा० 3442. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स तारा टाईल्स 
बन्दोरा , पोंडा , गोमा नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजफ और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर 
सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवार पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 की जनवरी के इकत्तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस०- 35019( 84 )/ 71-पी० एफ० 2 ] 
S . O . 3443, - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Bharathan Theatres Limited , Tenkasi, Tirunelvell District have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 
1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
September, 1970. 

[ No. 6 ( 234 ) / 70- PF . II ] 


SEC. 3(ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/ BHADRA 27, 18934825 


न 


का० प्रा० 3443. - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स भारथन थियेटर्स 
लिमिटेड , तेनकासी , तिरुनेलवेली जिला नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधि 
नियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लाग फए जाने चाहिए । 

प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 की सितम्बर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या 8( 234 )/ 70-पी० एफ० 2] 
S . O . 3444. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Haryana State Industrial Development Corporation Limited , Bank of India Build 
Ing, Post Box No. 22 , Sector 17 , Chandigarh have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 , ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
should be made applicable to the sald establishment; 

Now, therefore in exercise of the powers conterred by sub-section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the Arst day of 
October , 1970 . 

[ No. S . 35019 (48 ) / 71- PF.II ] 
का० प्रा० 3444.-- - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स हरयाणा 
स्टेट इन्डस्ट्रीयल डिवेलपमेंट , कारपोरेशन लिमिटेड , बैंक आफ इन्डिया बिल्डिंग , पोस्टबाक्स संख्या 22 , 
सक्टर 17, चण्डीगढ़ नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसख्या इस बात पर 
सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 
19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लाग करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के अक्टूबर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवन हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस०- 35 019( 48 )/ 71-पी०एफ०i] 


S . O . 3445 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Mssrs 
Mukherjee & Biswas , 10 , Old Post Office Street, Calcutta - 1 have agreed that the 
Provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 195 
( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
April, 1967 . 

[ No . S. 35018/ 19 / 71 - PF .II. ] 
का० प्रा० 344 5. -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स मुखर्जी एण्ड 
विश्वास , 10, अोल्ड पोस्ट आफिस स्ट्रीट , कलकत्ता- 1 , नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्म 
चारियों की बहु संख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्बपेंशन निधि 
अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 


4826 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/ BHADRA 27 , 1893 [PART IN -- 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1967 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[पंज्या एस०- 35018( 19 )/ 71-पी० एफ० 2 ] 


S . 0 . 3446 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Lotus inks, 47 - A / 1, Brick Kiln Road , Madras - 7 have agreed that the provi 
sions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 
of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establishment; 
____ Now , therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the sald 
Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
September , 1970 . 

[ No. 8 ( 292 ) / 70 - PF.II (1) ] 
का० प्रा० 3 44 6.--.- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स लोटस इन्क्स , 
47 - ए / 1, ब्रिक किन रोड , मद्रास - 7 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि पोर परिवार पेंशन निधि अधि 
नियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 के सितम्बर, के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या 8( 292)/ 70-पी० एफ०- 2 ( i) ] 
S . 0 . 3447. - -In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter , hereby 
specifles with effect from the 1st September , 1970 the establishment known as 
Messrs Lotus Inks, 47 - A / 1, Brick Kilm Road , Madras - 7 for the purpose of the said 
proviso . 

[ No . 8 ( 292) / 70- PF. II ( ii ).] 


का० प्रा० 3447. - - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
इस विषय में आवश्यक जांच कर लेने के पश्चात् एतद्द्वारा मैसर्स लोटस इंक्स , 47-ए / 1 , ब्रिक किन रोड , 
मद्रास - 7 नामक स्थापन को प्रथम सितम्बर , 1970 से उक्त परन्तुफ के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट 
करती है । 

[ संख्या 8 ( 292 ) / 70-पी० एफ० 2 (ii ) ] 
S . 0 . 3448. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Central Cycle and Motor Company , 170, Broadway , Madras- 1 have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
[ 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to th esald establishment ; 

Now , therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 
I of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act to the said establishment , 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the Arst day of 
March, 1970 . 

[ No. 8( 98 ) / 70- PF.II ] 


Sec . 3 ( li )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/ BHADRA 27, 1893 4827 


का० प्रा० 3448 . यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स सैन्दल साइकिल 
एण्ड मोटर कम्पनी, 170-प्रॉडवे , मद्रास - 1 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की 
बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवारपेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 
1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं ; 

अत:, अब , उन अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्ता कितनों का 
प्रयोग क ते हए के प्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को 
एनद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के मार्च के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत हुई समझी जायेगी । 

[ संख्या 8 ( 96 )/ 70-पी० एफ० 2 ] 
S . O . 3449, - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Mesgrs 
Porascole Coal Company Limited , 18 , Netaji Subhas Road , Calcutta - 1 have agreed 
that the provisions ot the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Act , 
1952 (19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the sald establishiment ; 

Now , therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirty - first day 
of July , 1969 . 

_ [ No . S. 35018 / 11/ 71 - PF .II (i ). ] 
का० प्रा० 3449 . यतः, केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स परिसकोल कम्पनी 
लिमिटेड 18, नेताजी सुभाष रोड , कलकत्ता - 1 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवार पेंशन निधि अधि 
नियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं ; 


अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम , की धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को द्दारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1969 को जुलाई के इकतीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जायेगी । 

[ संख्या एस ० 35018( 11 )/ 71 पी० एफ० 2( 1) ] 


New Delhi, the 16th August 1971 
S . O . 3460. - In pursuance of paragraph 4 of the Employees Provident Funds 
Scheme. 1952 , the Central Government hereby sets up a Regional Committee for 
the Union Territory of Delhi , consisting of the following persons , namely : — 

Chairman 
1. Secretary ( Labour ), Delhi Administration, 15 - Rajpur ) 
Road , Delhi. 

Representatives 
2 , Joint Director Industries Delhi Administration , Old [ of the Delhi 
Secretariat, Delhi . 

Administration , 
3 . Deputy Labour Commissioner , Delhi Administration , 

15 - Rajpur Road, Delhi . 
4 . Shri R . N . Agarwala , Prag Distilleries Water and Ice 

____ Factory , Subzi Mandi , Delhi . 
5. Shri S . K . Jagnani , Manager , Birla Cotton Spinning Representatives 

And Weaving Mills Limited , Subzi Mandi, Delhi- 7 . of employers . 
48 . Shri S . K . Wadhawan, D . C . M . Chemical Works. Najat - ! 

garh Road Industrial Area, Delhi- 15 . 


4828 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/ BHADRA 27, 1893 [PART II . 


7. Shri J . R . Narang, Member INTUC Delhi Ad - Hoc 

Committee , B - 9 , HIL Colony , Najargarh Road , 

New Delhi. 
8 . Shri Harl Krishan Pathak, General Secretary , Bhartiya ) 
Mazdoor Sangh 5239 , Ajmerl Gate, Delhi- 6 . 

Representatives 
9 . Shri B. D . Joshi , C1o Delhi State Committee of All of Employees. . 

India Trade Union Congress , 4215 , Tel Mandi , 
Pahar Ganj, New Delhi - 55 . 

[ No. PF . II / 10 (3 )/ 58.. 
नई दिल्ली , 16 अगस्त , 1971 
का० प्रा० 34 :10 कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि स्कीम 1952 के पैरा 4 के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय 
सरकार संघ क्षेत्र दिल्ली के लिए एतदद्वारा एक प्रादेशिक समिति की स्थापना करती है , जिस में निम्न 
लिखित व्यक्ति होंगे , अर्थात् : - - 

अध्यक्ष 
1. सचिव ( श्रम ) 

दिल्ली प्रशासन 15, राजपुर रोड, दिल्ली । 
2. संयुक्त निदेशक उद्योग , 

दिल्ली प्रशासन के प्रतिनिधि । 
दिल्ली प्रशासन , मोल्ड सेकेरिएट , दिल्ली । 
3. उप - श्रम आयुक्त , 

दिल्ली प्रशासन , 15, राजपुर रोड, दिल्ली । 
4. श्री पार० एन० अग्रवाल , 

प्राग डिस्टिलरीय वाटर एण्ड प्राइस फैक्टरी , सब्जी 

मण्डी, देहली । 
5. श्री एस० के० जगनानी , 

प्रबन्धक बिरला काटन स्पिनिग एण्ड वीविंग मिल्स नियोजकों के प्रतिनिधि । 

लिमिटेड , सब्जी मण्डी, दिल्ली - 7 । 
6. श्री एस० के० बधावन , 

डी० सी० एम० कैमिकल वर्क्स , नजफगढ़ रोड , 
इण्डस्ट्रियल एरिया दिल्ली - 15 । 
7. श्री जे० प्रार० नारंग , 

सदस्य इंडियन नेशनल ट्रेड यूनियन कांग्रेस , 
दिल्ली तदर्थ समिति बी - 9, हिल कालोनी , नजफगढ़ 

रोड , नई दिल्ली । 
8 . श्री हरिकृष्ण पाठक , 

महासचिय , भारतीय मजदूर संघ , 5239, अजमेरी गेट , कर्मचारियों के प्रतिनिधि । 
दिल्ली - 6 । 
9. श्री बी० डी० जोशी , 
मार्फत आल इंडिया ट्रेड यूनियन कांग्रेस , की दिल्ली 
राज्य समिति , 4215, तेल मण्डी , पहाड़ गंज , नई 
दिल्ली - 55 । 

[ संख्या पी० एफ० II - 10( 3)/ 59] 
New Delhi, the 21st August 1071 
S . 0 . 3451. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( b ) of sub- section 
( 1 ) of Section 5A of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) . the Central Government hereby appoints Shri P . C . 
Misra, as a member of the Central Board of Trustees, and makes the following: 


Sc. 3HIS THE GALETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 /BHADRA 27, 1893 48207 


further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Department of Social Security No . S . O . 1156, dated the 1st April, 1965 , narmely :- - 

In the said notification , for the entry against serial number 3, the following " 
entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" Shri P . C . Misra , Internal Financial Adviser and Deputy Secretary to the 

Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation, ( Depart 
ment of Labour and Employment ), New Delhi . " . 

[ No. 12( 2) /88- P.II. ] 
नई दिल्ली, 21 अगस्त , 1971 
का मा० 3451 - - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि तथा परिवार पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 5- क की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( ख ) के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद्द्वारा श्री पी०सी० मिश्र , प्रांतरिक वित्तीय सलाहकार और उप सचिव , भारत सरकार , श्रम और 
पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) को केन्द्रीय न्यासी बोर्ड का सदस्य नियक्त करती है 
पौर भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व सामाजिक सुरक्षा विभाग की अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 1156 . 
तारीख प्रयम अप्रैल , 1965 में निम्नलिखित समोधन करती है ; अर्थात् : - - 
उक्त अधिसूचना क्रम संख्या 3 के सामने की प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर , निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि 

प्रतिस्थापित की जाएगी , अर्थात् :- - 
" श्री पी०सी० मिश्र , 
मांतरिक वित्तीय सलाहकार और उप सचिव , 
भारत सरकार , श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय , 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) , नई दिल्ली " । 

[ संख्या 12 ( 2 )/ 38- फी०एफ०- 2] 
8 . 0 . 3452. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Maneklai and Sons Agency , 29, Thambu Chetty Street, Madras- 1, have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pen 
sion Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establish 
ment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by gub -section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
August , 1969 . 

[ No. 8 (30 ) / 70- PF.II. ] 
का० प्रा० 345 2. यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स मानेकलाल एण्ड 
सन्स एजेन्सी , 29, थम्ब चेट्टी स्ट्रीट, मद्रास - 1 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवार पेंशन निधि 
अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए :, 


अतः, अन्न , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध नुक्तस्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1969 के अगस्त के प्रम दिन को प्रवत हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या 8 / 30) / 70 -पी० एफ . 91 


. 4830 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 /BHADRA 27, 1893 [PART IK 


New Delhi, the 31st August, 1971 
S . O . 3453. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Vidyut Motors , 264, Charni Road, Opposite Central Cinema, Bombay - 4 have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employecs Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 o 1952 ), should be made applicable to the said establishment. 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
Section 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hcreby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirtieth day 
of September , 1970 . 

[ No. S. 35017 (9)/ 71- PF - II .] 
का० प्रा० 3 4 5 2.- - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स विद्युत मोटर्स 
264, चर्को रोड , सेन्ट्रल सिनेमा के सामने , मम्बई - 4 नामक स्थान से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्म 
चारियों की गहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवार 
पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किये जाने 
चाहिए ; 


अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1971 के सितम्बर, के तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जायेगी । 

[ संख्या एस - 35017( 9 )/ 71 -पी०एफ० - 2) 
s . o . 3454. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
South India Aluminium Company , 35 , Mini Street, Madras- 3 , including factory 
at Mahabalipuram Road , Madras -41 have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
should be made applicable to the said establishment. 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred . by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
. November, 1970 . 

[ No. 8( 265 ) / 70 - PF .II.] 
का० प्रा० 245 4.-- - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स साउथ इण्डिया 
एच मिनियम कम्पनी , 35 - मिन्ट स्ट्रीट , मद्रास - 3, जिसमें महाबलोपुरम रोड , मद्रास - 41 में स्थित 
कारखाना भी सम्मिलित है , नामक स्थान से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों को बहुसंख्या इस 
बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधि 
( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किये जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एटद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के नवम्बर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृस हुई समझी जायेगी । 

[संख्या 8/ 265/ 70 -पी०एफ० - 2] 


S . O . 3455 , — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Nanavati Dies & Tools ( Private ) Limited 4 , Shivaji Colony Perera Hill 
Road, Off M . Vassanji Road, Andheri Bombay - 68 have agreed that the provisions 


. SEC. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 18934831 


of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 
1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment . 
____ Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- section ( 4 ) of section 
1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall ibe deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
August, 1970 . 

[ No. S. 35017 / 22 / 71- PF ,II (1).] 
का० प्रा० 3455.-- - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मंसर्स नानावती 
डाइज एण्ड टूल्स ( पी० ) लिमिटेड , 4, शिवाजी कालोनी , परेरा हिल राड , प्राफ्फ एम० वस्सनजी रोड , 
अन्धेरी, मुम्बई - 69 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर 
सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवार पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लाग किये जाने चाहिए ; 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के अगस्त के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जायेगी । 

[ संख्या एस० 35017( 22 )/ 71 -पी०एफ० - 2( i)] 
S . O . 3456 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Arst proviso to section 6 of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
the Central Government after making necessary enquiry into the matter , hereby 
specifies with effect from the Arst day of August, 1970 , the estab ] ishment known as 
Messrs Nanavati Dics and Tools (Private ) Limited , 4 , Shivaji Colony , Pereira Hlll 
Road Or, M. Vassanji Road , Andheri . Bombay - 69 for the purposes of the said 
proviso . 

[ No. S - 35017/ 22 / 71 - PF.II ( ii ).] 
का० प्रा० 3456. - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कूटम्ब पेंशन निधि , 
अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हए , संबद्ध विषय में आवश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् अगस्त 1970 के प्रथम दिन 
से मैसर्स नानावती डाइज टल्म ( पी ) लिमिटेड , 4-शिवाजी कालोनी, परेरा हिल रोड , प्राफ्फ एम० 
यस्सनजी रोड , अन्धेरी, मुम्बई - 69 नामक स्थापन को एतद्वारा उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए 
विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ संख्या एस0 - 350 17 ( 22 )/ 71 -पी०एफ० - 2 ( ii ) ] 


S . O . 3457. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Everest Blocks, Jay Gopal Industrial Estate , 510 , Bhavani Shankar Cross 
Road , Unit No. 305 , 3rd Floor, Dadar , Bombay - 28 have agreed thau the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
should be made applicable to the said establishment. 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 

F CIATETred by hub- section of 
of the said Act to the said establishment, 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
January , 1971. 

[ No. S. 35017 (8 ) / 71 - PF -II. ] 


का० प्रा० 345 7. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मेसर्स एवरेस्ट ब्लाफ्स , 
जयगोपल इण्डस्ट्रियल एस्टेट , 510 , भवानीशंकर क्रास रोड , युनिट सं0 305 , तीसरी मंजिल , 
दादर , मुम्बई - 28 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर 


. 4832 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/ BHADRA 27 , 1893 [ PART I 


सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवार पेंशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किये जाने चाहिए ; 


प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1971 की जनवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जायेगी । 

[ संख्या एस0 - 350 17 ( 8 )/ 71 -पी०एफ०- 2] 
$ . 0 . 3458 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Kumudam Process , 47- A , Brick Klin Road , Madras - 7 have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 
(19 of 1952) , should be made applicable to the said establishment . 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 4) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notication shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
: September , 1970 . 

[ No. 8 ( 291 )/ 70- PF- II (1). ] 


का० प्रा० 3458. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि कुमुदम प्रोसेस , 
47 - ए , ब्रिक किल्न रोड , मद्रास - 7, नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक पीर कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या 
स बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किये जाने चाहिए । 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के सितम्बर के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत हुई समझी जायेगी । 

[ संख्या 8 ( 291 )/ 70 -पी० एफ0 - 2(i )] 


S . O . 3459 In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 
• of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act. 1952 ( 18 ot 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter , 
hereby specifles with effect from the 1st September. 1970 the establishment known 
as Messrs Kumudam Process, 47- A , Brick Kiln Road , Madras - 7 for the purpose of 
· the said proviso . 

[ No. 8( 291 )/ 70 - PF -II ( ii ). ] 
का० प्रा० 3459. - - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रयम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार इस विषय में आवश्यक जांच कर लेने के पश्चात् एतद्धारा मेसर्स कुमुदम प्रोसेस , 47 --ए , 
बिक किल्न रोट, मद्रास - 7 नामक स्थापन को प्रथम सितम्बर , 1970 से उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों 
के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 


[ संख्या 8( 291 )/ 70 -पी० एफ०- 2(ii )] 


S . O , 3460. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
· and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Sri Ganapathy Motor Service Burmah Shell Dealer , Nagercoil, Kanya 
kumar District, Tamil Nadu have agreed that the povisions of the Employees 
Povident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should be made 
applicable to the sald establishment. 


SEC . 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / RHADRA 27 , 18934833 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (4 ) cf section 
1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the sold establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force cr . the first day of 
" February , 1970. 

[ No. B( 102)/ TO .PF - II (i).] 
का० प्रा० 3480. - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मेसर्स श्री गणपति 
मोटर सविस बर्मा शैल डीलर, नागरकोइल , कन्याकुमारी जिला , तमिलनाडू नामक स्थापन से सम्बर 
नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि 

और कुदम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू 
किये जाने चाहिए । 

अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 की फरवरी के प्रयम दिन को प्रवृत हुई समक्षी जायेगी । 

[ संख्या 8 ( 192 )/ 70 -पी० एफ० - 2( i) ] 
S . O . 3461. - In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952) , 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, hereby 
specifles with effect from the 1st February , 1970 the establishment known as 
Messrs Sri Ganapathy Motor Service , Burmah Shell Dealer , Nagercoil, Kanya 
kumari District, Tamil Nadu for the purposes of the sald proviso . 

[ No.8 (192 )/ 70- PF -II (ii ).] 
का० प्रा० 3461. कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 195 2 का 19 ) की 
धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार इस विषय 
में पात्रश्यक जांच कर लेने के पश्चात् एतदद्वारा मेसर्स , श्री गणपति मोटर सर्विस बर्ना- शैल 
डीलर , नागरकोइन , कन्याकुमारी जिना, तमिलनाड नामक स्थापन को प्रथम फरवरी, 1970 से 
उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ संख्या 8 ( 192) / 7 )-पी० एफ०- 2 ] 

दलजीत सिंह , 

अपर सचित्र । 
S . O . 3462. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employces in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. District Sports Council, Stadium Grounds, Salem- 7, Salem District have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pen 
sion Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to the said establish 
ment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment with effect from the 31st August , 1971. 

[ No . S. 35019 ( 75 ) / 71 - PF -II ] 
का० प्रा० 3462. -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मेसर्स डिस्ट्रिक्ट 
स्पोर्टस कौंसिल , स्टेडियम ग्राउन्ड्स , सालेम - 7, सालेम डिस्ट्रिन्ट नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक 

और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब 
पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 15 52( 1952 का 19) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लाग किए जाने चाहिए ; 

प्रत . अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध को एतद्द्वारा लाग करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1971 की अगस्त के 31वें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस० - 350/ 19 ( 75)/ 71 -पी०एफ० 2 ] 


4834 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 1893 [ PART II -- 


- 


S . O . 3463 . - - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs, Madhu Mudrak, 35 , Industrial Area, Chandigarh have agreel that the 
provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establishment ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
December , 1970 , 

[ No. 8 (271 ) / 70 - PF .II (1) } " 


का० प्रा० 3463. -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मसर्स मधु मुद्रक , 35 , 
इण्डस्ट्रीयल एरिया , चण्डीगढ नामक स्थापन से सम्बन्द्र नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस 
बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवार पेंशन निधि अधिनियम - 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

अत :, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के दिसम्बर , के प्रथम दिन को प्रवत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या 8 ( 271 ) / 70-पी० एफ0 -- 2 - ( i) ] 


S .O . 3464 . - In cxcrcise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 
of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , the Central Govern 
ment, after making necessary enquiry into the matter , hereby specifc . with effect 
from the 1st December , 1970 the establishment known as Messrs . Madhu Mudrak 
35 , Industrial Area , Chandigarh for the purposes of the said proviso 

[ No . 8( 271) / 70 - PF II ( ii ) ] 
का० प्रा० 3 464. - - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 वा 19 ) की 
धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार इस विषय 
में आवश्यक जांच कर लेने के पश्चात् एनद्वारा मंसर्स , मधुमुद्रक 35 , इण्डस्ट्रीयल एरिया , चण्डीगढ़ 
नामक स्थापन को प्रथम दिसम्बर, 1970 से उक्त परन्तुक के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती 


[ सख्या 8( 271 )/ 70-पी० एफ० - 2( ii )] 


S . O . 3465 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs . Diamond Service Station , Great Eastern Road Raipur have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act , 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establishment : 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the sald Act to the said establishment with effect from the 31st August, 1971 , 

[ No . S. 35019 ( 76 ) / 71 - PF-I ] 


का० पा ०3465. — यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मेसर्स डायमण्ड सविस 
स्टेशन , ग्रेट ईर्स्टन रोड, रायपुर , नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक ओर कारियो की बहुसंख्या 
इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952. 
( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 


SEC. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 1893 4835 


- 


प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनयम के उपबंध उक्त स्थापन को एतवद्वारा 31 अगस्त , 
1971 लाग करती है । 

[ संख्या एस - 35019 ( 76 ) / 71 - पी एफ01 ] 


S . O . 3466 .--- Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs . Western Gas Company, 107 - K Block, F ", New Alipore, Calcutta -53, have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Find Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establish 
ment ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
July, 1970 . 

[ No . S- 35018 / 29 / 73 -PF.II ] 
का० प्रा० 3466. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मेसर्स वैस्टर्न गैस 
कम्पनी, 107 के o - ब्लाक एफ , न्यू अलीपुर , कलकत्ता - 5 3 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और 
कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवार पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 को उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 की जुलाई के 3 1वें दिन को प्रवृत हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस - 35018 ( 29 )/ 71 -पी०एफ०2 ] 


New Delhi. the 1st September 1971 
S . 0 . 3467. - Whereas the . Central Government was satisfied that : 

( 1) Dholekote Workshop 

( 2 ) Krishna Foundry 
were situated in Village Dholekote areas which was a sparge area (that is , an 
area whose ingurable population was less than 500 ) in the district of Ambala in 
the State of Haryana . 

And , whereas by virtue of their location in a sparse area, the aforesaid fac 
tories were granted exemption from the payment of the employer s special con 
tribution under section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 (34 of 
1948 ) until enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area 
by the Central Government in the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S. O . 1367 dated the 6th May, 1983. 

And, whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population 
of the Village Dholekote area in the district of Ambala in the State of Haryana 
has now exceeded 500 , and it is no longer a sparse area ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendment in the said notification , namely : - - 

In the Schedule to the said notification against Serial No, 1, the entry " Village 
Dholekote " in column 3 and the entries corresponding thereto in column 4 shall 
be omitted . 

[ No. F . 603 ( 5 ) / 70 - HI.] 


4836 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 [PART II — 


नई दिल्ली , 1 सितम्बर, 1971 
का० प्रा० 3407 : - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार का यह समाधान हो गया था कि ( 1 ) ढोले कोटे 
धर्कशाप ( 2 ) कृष्णा फाउण्ड्री ग्राम ढोले कोटे क्षेत्र में स्थित ण जो हरियाणी राज्य के अम्बाला जिले में 
बिखरी हुई आबादी का क्षेत्र अर्थात् ऐसा क्षेत्र जिसकी बीमा योग प्राबादी 500 से कम थी था ; 

और यतः उसकी दिखरी हुई आबादी के क्षेत्र में अवस्थिति के आधार पर केन्द्रीय सरकार ने 
उपयुक्त कारखाने को भारत सरकार के भतपूर्व श्रम और रोजगार मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या 
का०मा० 1967 तारीख 6 मई 1963 द्वारा कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 
का 34 ) की धारा 73च के अधीन नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के सन्दाय से तब तक के लिए छूट दे 
दी थी जब तक की उस अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबन्ध उस क्षेत्र में प्रवर्तित नहीं हो जाते 

और यत: केन्द्रीय सरकार का यह समाधान हो वया है कि हरियाणा राज्य के अम्बाला जिले 
मे ग्राम ढोलेकोटे क्षेत्र की बीमा योग्य आबादी अब 500 से बढ़ गई है और वह बिखरी हई आबादी का 
क्षेत्र नहीं है 

अतः , अब, कर्मचारी राज्य मा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते र केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा उक्त अधिसूचना में और मागे निम्नलिखित 
संशोधन करती है , अर्थात : - - 

उक्त अधिसूचना में , क्रम संख्या 1 के सामने , स भ 3 में , " ग्राम ढोलेकोटे " 
स्तम्भ 4 में तत्स्थानी प्रविष्टियों का लोप कर दिया जायेगा 

[ संख्या फा० 603 ( 5 )/ 70- एच० आई० ] 


S48520- 19 of Stanistry ofeesome . So fashieG . Pullajabua for the purpose 


New Delhi, the 2nd September 1971 
S . O . 3468 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 13 of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , and in supersession of the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department 
of Labour and Employment) No. S . O . 61 dated the 11th December , 1970 , the 
Central Government hereby appoints Sarvashri G . Pullaiah and P . Srirangachari 
to be Inspectors for the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu for the purposes of 
the said Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder , in relation to any 
establishment belonging to , or under the control of the Central Government or 
in relation to any establishment connected with a railway company , a major port, 
a mine or an oil fleld or a controlled industry . 

[ No. A. 12016 ( 5 ) / 71 - PF.I ( 1) .] 


नई दिल्ली , 2 सितम्बर , 1971 


का० प्रा० 3468 . -- कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्म पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 13 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , 
और भारत सरकार ने श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधि 
सूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 61 तारीख 11 दिसम्बर , 1970 को अधिकान्त करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद्वारा सर्वश्री जी० पुलइया और पी० श्री रंगाचारी को उक्त अधिनियम के लिए और तद्धीन 
बनाई गई किसी स्कीम के प्रयोजनों के लिए , केन्द्रीय सरकार के नियंत्रणाधीन या उसके स्थापन के 
सम्बन्ध में या किसी रेलवे कम्पनी , किसी मख्य पतन , किसी खान या किसी तेल क्षेत्र या किसी 
नियंत्रित उद्योग से सम्बन्धित किसी स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में सम्पूर्ण तमिल नाड राज्य के निरीक्षक 
नियुक्त करती है । 

[सं० फा० ए- 12015 (5)/ 71 -पी०एफ -1 (i) ] 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/ BHADRA 27 , 1893 4837 


- 


W 


S . O . 3469 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 13 of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 
1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following amend 
ment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment No . 
S . O . 2414, dated the 29th June, 1968, namely : 
In the said notification for the words and letters " Sarvashri D . Vadivelu , 

M . C . Hirudayanathan " the words and letter " Sarvashri D , Vadivelu " 
shall be substituted . 

[ No . A . 12015 ( 5 ) / 71 - PF.I ( ii ) . ] 
का० प्रा० 3469. -- कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 13 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एतद्वारा भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 
की अधिसूचना संख्या का प्रा० 2 4 1 4, तारीख 29 जून , 1968 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती 
है , अर्थात् : - - 

उक्त अधिसूचनाओं में "सर्वश्री डी० वादिवैलू , एम० सी० हृदयानाथनन " शब्द और अक्षरों 
के स्थान पर “ सर्वश्री डी . वादिवैल " शब्द और अक्षर प्रतिस्थापित किये जायेंगे । 


[ संख्या फा० ए - 12015( 5 )/ 71 -पी०एफ -1 ( ii ) ] 


New Delhi . the 7th September 1971 
S . O . 3470 ,- - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known 35 

Messrs Indian Red Cross Society , Coimbatore-18 have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees Provident Funds Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 
first day of November, 1970 . 

[ No, 8 ( 295) / 70- PF - II , ] 


नई दिल्ली , 7 सितम्बर, 1971 
का० प्रा० 3470. - - यत: केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मेसर्स इंडियन रेड क्रास 
सोसाइटी , कोयम्बटूर - 18 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस 
बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 19 52 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए । 

__ अतः , अब, उक्त्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू 
करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के नवम्बर , के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या 8/ 295/ 70 -पी० एफ - 2 ] 


S . O . 3471,-- -Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establighment known as 
Messrs Wood Craft, Mallick Kashim Hat, Post Office Chinsurah , Hoogly have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 


4838 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 1893 [ PART II 


Now , therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion l of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
sad Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 
thirtieth day of April , 1970 . 

[ No . S-35018 (26) / 71- PF . II .] 


का० प्रा० 3471. -- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स बुद्ध क्राफ्ट , मलिक 
कशीम हट , पोस्ट आफिस चिन्सूरा, हुगली नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों . 
को बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कटम्ब पेंशन निधि 
अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं । 

अत : , अब, उक्त्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त्त स्थापन को एतदद्वारा लागू करती है । 


यह अधिसूचना 1970 के अप्रैल के तीसवे दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 


[ संख्या एस - 35018 ( 26 ) / 71 - पी०एफ० - 2 ] 


S . 0 . 3472. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Mahindra and Mahindra Limited , Employees Cooperative Canteen Society 
Limited , Narayan Nagar, Agra Road , Ghatkopar, Bombay - 77 have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
sad Act to the said establishment . 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 
thirtieth day of June, 1970 . 

INo. S -35017 ( 26 ) / 71- PF . II . ] 


का० प्रा० 3472 - - पतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स महिन्द्रा एण्ड 
महिन्द्रा लिमिटेड , एमनोईज कोप्रापरेटिव केन्टीन सोसाइटी लिमिटेड, नारायण नगर , प्रागरा 
रोड , घाटकोपर, मुम्बई - 77 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या इस 
बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पंगा निधि अधिनियम , 1952, 
( 1952 को 19 ) के उपबन्ध उन स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं ; 

श्रत :, पा , उक्त प्रविनियम को धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करने दर केन्द्रीय कार उस प्रविनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के जून के तीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस - 35017 ( 26 ) 71 -पी० एफ - 2 ] 


S . O . 3473 - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Laxmiraj Printers, A - 38, Royal Optical Industrial Estate, Naigaum Cross 
Road Wadala , Bombay - 31 have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 
___ Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
sad Act to the said establishment. 


SEC. 3 ( i) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 1893. 4839 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 
Thirty first day of August , 1970 . 

[ No. S -35017 (27) / 71 -PF -III 
का० प्रा० 3473. - - यत: केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स लक्ष्मीराज प्रिटर्स 
ए - 38, रायल प्राप्टिकल इन्डस्ट्रियल एस्ट , नईगाम क्रास रोड, बाडला , मुम्बई - 31 नामक 
स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि 
कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के 
उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः , प्रव, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उप -धारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का 
प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उपत्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू 
करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के अगस्त के वकतीसवें दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस0 - 35017 ( 27)/ 71 -पी०एफ०-- 2] 
S . O . 3474. — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter , 
hereby specifies with effect from the 31st May , 1969, the establishment known as 
Messrs Lotus Knitting Industries, Orkay Compound, Kurla , Andheri Road , Saki 
Naka, Bombay - 72 , for the purposes of the said proviso . 

[ No. S -35017 ( 25 ) / 71 PF - II ( 11 ).] 

DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy . 
का प्रा० 3474. - - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशननिधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्त्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार इस विपय में प्रावश्यक जांच कर लेने के पश्चात् एतद्वारा मैसर्स लोटस निटिंग 
इण्डस्ट्रीज , पोरके कम्पाउण्ड , कुर्ला, अन्धेरी रोड , साकी नाका , मम्बई - 72 नामक स्थापन 
को 31 मई , 1969 से उक्त्त परन्तुफ के प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ संख्या एस - 35017( 25 )/ 71 - पी ०एफ ०-II ( i) ] 

दलजीत सिंह, अवर सचिव । 


(Department of Rehabilltation ) 
( Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 19th August 1971 
8 . 0 , 3478 . — This office notification No. 10 ( 10 ) / Admn.II /71, dated the 6th 
April , 1971, is hereby cancelled . 

[ No. 10 ( 10 ) / Admn.II /71. ] 
( पुनर्वास विभाग ) 
मुख्य बन्दोबस्त प्रायुक्त का कार्यालय 

नई दिल्ली , 19 अगस्त , 1971 
एस० प्रो० 3475. -- इस कार्यालय की अधिसूचना संख्या 10( 10 ) एडमिन II / 
71, दिनांक 6 अप्रैल, 1971 विलोपित की जाती है । 

[ संख्या 10( 10) / एडमिन II / 71 ] 


4840 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / BHADRA 27, 1893 [ PART II 


New Delhi, the 30th August 1971 
S . O . 3476 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - section (i ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Com. & Reh. ) Act , 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) . The Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri G . C . Mogha as Deputy Chief Settlement Com 
missioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to suc , Commis 
sioners by or under the said Act, with immediate effect . 

[ No . 5 ( 4 ) / Adinn II / 701 

G . L . GUPTA, 
Settlement Commissioner ( A ) & 

Ex -Officio Under Secretary. 
नई दिल्ली, 30 अगस्त 1971 
एस० ओ० 3476 . - - विस्थापित व्यक्ति ( प्रतिकर तथा पुनर्वास ) अधिनियम 1954 
( 1954 का 44 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) की प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एतद्वारा तत्काल श्री जी० सी० मोगा को उपबन्दोबस्त आयुक्त नियुक्त करती है ताकि वे 
उन कार्यों को कर सकें जो ऐसे आयुक्तों के पद के लिए उपरोक्त अधिनियम के द्वारा या अन्तर्गत 
निरधारित किए गए हैं । 

[ संख्या 5( 4) एडमिन II/ 70] 

जी० एल० गुप्ता, 
बन्दोबस्त प्रायुक्त ( प्रशासन ) एवं पदेन अवर सचिव । 


( Department of Rehabilitation ) 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 23rd August 1971 
S. O . 3477. --In exercise of the powers conferred on the Chief Settlement Com 
missioner by Şub - Section ( 2 ) of Section 34 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensa 
tion and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , he hereby delegates to Shri S . N . 
Bahl, Asstt., Settlement Commissioner in the office of the Regional Settlement Com 
missioner (Central ) , New Delhi, the powers to hear ( 1) appeals under Section 23 
of the said Act and ( li ) revisions under Section 24 of the sald Act, against orders 
passed by the subordinate authorities under the said Act in respect of properties , 
claims etc ., from the State of Punjab , Haryana and Himachal Pradesh , 

[ No. 5 ( 4 ) / AGZ / 66. ] 

W . G . PATHAK. 

Chlef Settlement Commissioner , 
( पुनर्वास विभाग ) 
( मुख्य बन्योमस्त प्रायुक्त का कार्यालय ) 

नई दिल्ली , 23 अगस्त 1971 
एस० मो० 3477. – विस्थापित व्यक्ति ( प्रतिकर तथा पुनर्वास ) अधिनियम , 1954 
( 1954 का 44 ) की धारा 34 की उपधारा ( 2 ) जो कि मुख्य बन्दोबस्त आयुक्त को प्रदान की 
गई है उन शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए वे श्री एस० एन० बहल सहायक बन्दोबस्त प्रायुक्त , नई दिल्ली 
को निम्नलिखित शक्तियां पंजाब तथा हिमाचल प्रदेश राज्य के लिए प्रदान करते हैं । 

( 1 ) इस अधिनियम की धारा 23 के अन्तर्गत प्रार्थना सुनने की शक्ति । 
( 2) इस अधिनियम की धारा 24 के अन्तर्गत पुनरीक्षण सुनने की शक्ति । 

[ संख्या 5( 4)/ ए० जी० जड / 66 ] 

बा० ग० पाठक , 
मुख्य बन्दोबस्त आयुक्त । 


Sec . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 /BHADRA 27, 1893 4841 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi , the 16th August 1971 
S . O , 3478 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Electri 
city ( Supply ) Act, 1948 (54 of 1948 ) , and in partial modification of this Ministry s 
notification No . EL . II. 28 ( 9 ) /71, dated the 20th July , 1971, the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri P . G . Gokhale , Joint Secretary and Legal Adviser, 
Ministry of Law and Justice , as a Member of the Central Electricity Authority 
vice Shri L . J. Manjrekar. 

[ No . EL. II . 28( 9) / 71. ] 
M . RAMANATHAN. 

Deputy Director ( Power ). 
सिंचाई और वित्त मंत्रालय | 

नई दिल्ली, 16 अगस्त , 1971 
एस० प्रो0 3478: - - बिजली ( पूर्ति ) अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 54 ) की 
धारा 3 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये और इस मंत्रालय की तारीख 20 जुलाई , 
1971 की अधिसूचना संख्या ई० एल० - दो - 28 ( 9) / 71 का प्रशिक संशोधन करते हुये , केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एतद्वारा श्री पी० जो० गोखने , संयुक्त सचिव व वैधिक सलाहकार, विधि और न्याय मंत्रा 
लय को श्री एल० जे० मंजरेकर के स्थान पर केन्द्रीय बिजली प्राधिकरण के सदस्य के रूप में 
नियुक्त करती है । 

[ सं० ई० एल० - वो - 28 ( 9) / 71. ] 

एम० रामनाथन , उप निदेशक । 
MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 28th August 1971 
S . O . 3479 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Seamen s 
Provident Fund Act , 1960 ( 4 of 1966 ) , read with paragraph 3 of the Seamen s 
Provident Fund Scheme, 1966, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
Bijoy Mukherjee , Assistant Secretary , National Union of Seamen of India , Cal 
cutta , as a member of the Board of trustees of the Seamen s Provident Fund , and 
makes the following further amendment in the notifcation of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation , Department of Trans 
port, Shipping and Tourism ( Transport Wing ) No. 2878 , dated the 20th September , 
1966, namely : 

In the said notification under the heading , “ Members" , for Serial No 9 ind 
the entries relating thereto , the following Serial No. and entries shall be substitut 
ed , namely : - -- 
" 9 . Shri Bijoy Mukherjee , 

Seamen s representative. " 

[ No. 5 - MT ( 9) / 71 .] 

J . K . BHATTACHARYA, Dy . Secy . 
नौवहन और परिवहन मंत्रालय 

( परिवहन पक्ष ) 

व्यापारिक नौवहन 

नई दिल्ली , 28 अगस्त , 1971 
का० प्रा० 3479. वार्षिक भविष्य निधि योजना 1966 के पैरा 3 के साथ पठित नाविक 
भविष्य निधि अधिनियम 1966 ( 1966 का 4 ) की धारा 5 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 


2014 ok, Inc National 
the macation 
, Depae 
20tk 


4842 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27, 1893 [PART 11 


स 


हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा श्री विजय मुखरजी , सहायक सचिव , भारत नाविक राष्ट्रीय 
संघ, कलकत्ता , को नाविक भविष्य निधि के न्यासियों के बोर्ड का सदस्य नियुक्त करती है और भूत 
पूर्व परिवहन और नागर विमानन मंत्रालय , परिवहन , नौवहन और पर्यटन विभाग ( परिवहन पक्ष ) , 
की अधिसूचना सं० 2878, दिनांक 20 सितम्बर, में निम्नलिखित और संशोधन करती है , 
अर्थात् : --- 

उपत अधिसूचना , में सदस्यों शीर्षक के अंतर्गत क्रम संख्या 9 और उससे संबंधित प्रविष्टियों 
के लिए निम्नलिखित क्रम संख्या और प्रविष्टिया प्रतिस्थापित की जाएगी , अर्थात : 
“ g - श्री विजोय मखरजी । 

नाविको का 
प्रतिनिधि । ” 

[ 5-एम० टी० ( 9)/ 71 ] 
जे० के० भट्टाचार्य, उप सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF WORKS AND HOUSING 

New Delhi, the 29th July 1971 
S . O , 3480 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
17 of the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act , 1952 (30 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the powers exercisable by it 
under section 6 , section 7 , section 8 [except clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 1 ) ] and sec 
tion 13 of the said Act shall be exercisable also by the Director of Estate Manage 
ment, Department of Atomic Energy, Bombay , in respect of any property situated 
within his administrative jurisdiction provided that the power under the said 
section 8 in so far it relates to the fixing of compensation by agreement shall not 
be exercised except with the previous concurrence of the Central Government, 

[ No . 19014 ( 2 ) / 69 - Pol.IV . ] 


निर्माण और प्रावास मंत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली 29 जुलाई 1971 


का० प्रा० 3480. -- स्थावर सम्पत्ति अधिग्रहण और अर्जन अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 
30 ) की धारा 17 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतदद्वारा निदेश देती है कि उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6, धारा 7, धारा 8 [ उपधारा ( 1 ) के उपखड ( ख ) 
को छोड़कर और धारा 13 के अधीन उस के द्वारा प्रयोक्तव्य शक्तियों , सम्पदा प्रबंध निदेशक , परमाणु 
ऊर्जा विभाग , मुम्बई द्वारा भी उस की प्रशासनिक अधिकारिता के भीतर स्थिति किसी सम्पत्ति की 
बाबत प्रयोक्तव्य होंगी । परन्तु उक्त धारा के अधीन शक्ति जहां तक उस का संबंध करारद्वारा प्रतिकार 
नियत करने से है,केन्द्रीय सरकार की पूर्व- सहमति के बिना प्रयुक्त नहीं की जायेगी । 

[सं०/ 90 /4( 2)/ 69--पोल ० 4.] 


S . O . 3481 . — In pursuance of clause ( b ) of section 2 of the Requisitioning and 
Acquisition of Immovable Property Act , 1952 ( 30 of 1952), the Central Govern 
ment hereby authorises the Director of Estate Management, Department of Atomic 
Energy , Bombay , in the State of Maharashtra to perform the functions of the com 
petent authority under the said Act for the areas falling within his administrative 
jurisdiction . 

[ No. 18014 ( 2) / 69- Pol.IV ] 

P. N . KHANNAH, 
Deputy Director of Estates & Ex - officio Under Secy . 


SEC . 3 ( il ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27, 1893 4843 


. 


का० प्रा० 3481. ---स्थावर सम्पत्ति अधिग्रहण और अर्जन अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 30 ) 
की धारा 2 के खंड ( ख ) के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार , महाराष्ट्र राज्य में , सम्पदा प्रबंध निदेशक , 
परिमाण ऊर्जा विभाग को उसकी प्रशासनिक अधिकारिता के भीतर आने वाले क्षेत्रों के लिए 
उक्त अधिनियम के अधीन सक्षम प्राधिकारी के कृत्यों का पालन करने के लिए एतदद्वारा प्राधिकृत करती 


[ सं0 / 9014 ( 2 )/ 69 - पोल 4. ] 

पी० एन० खन्ना , 
उपनिदेशक , सम्पदा तथा पदेन अवर सचिव । 


New Delhi, the 17th August 1971 
S. 0 . 3482. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 56 
of the Delhi Developinent Act , 1957 (61 of 1957 ) read with clause ( m ) of sub 
section ( 2 ) of that section and after consultation with the Delhi Development 
Authority , the Central Government hereby makes the following rules to amend 
the Delhi Development Authority (Maintenance of Current Account) Rules, 1959, 
namely : — 

1. Short title and commencement . - ( 1 ) rhese rules rmay be called the Delhi 
Development Authority (Maintenance of Current Account) Amendment Rules, 
1971 . 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the official 
Gazette . 

2 . In the Delhi Development Authority (Maintenance of Current Account) 
Rules. 1959 , in rule 2 , for the words " rupees eight lakhs" , the expression " rupees 
twenty five lakhs" ( excluding balances in the Personal Ledger Accounts ) shall be 
substituted . 

INo. 2- 21 / 69- UDI . ] 
L. M . SUKHWANI , Under Secy . 


नई दिल्ली , 17 अगस्त , 1971 
का० प्रा० 348 2. - दिल्ली विकास अधिनियम , 1957 ( 1957 का 61 ) की धारा 56 
की उपधारा ( 1 ) के साथ पढ़ी गई उसी धारा की उपधारा ( 2 ) के खण्ड ( ड ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए, तथा दिल्ली विकास प्राधिकरण के परामर्श के उपरान्त केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
दिल्ली विकास प्राधिकरण ( चाल खाते का अनुरक्षण ) नियम , 1959 में संशोधन करने के लिये 
निम्नलिखित नियम बनाती है, अर्थात् : 

___ 1. लघु शीर्षक तथा प्रारम्भण . -- ( 1 ) इन नियमों को दिल्ली विकास प्राधिकरण ( चालू 
खाते का अनुरक्षण ) संशोधन नियम, 1971 , कहा जाय, 

( 2 ) वे सरकारी राजपत्र में प्रकाशित होने की तिथि से लागू होंगे । 

2. दिल्ली विकास प्राधिकरण ( चालू खाते का अनुरक्षण ) नियम, 1939, के नियम 2 में शब्द 
" मआठ लाख रुपये " के लिए पद " 25लाख रुपये " (निजी लेजर खातों की शेष राशियों को छोड़ कर ) 
को प्रतिस्थापित किया जाय । 

[ सं० 2 - 21 / 69 -यू डो ] 


एल० एम० सुखवाणी, अवर सचिव । 


4844 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/ BHADRA 27 , 1893 (PART II — 


MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Cooperation ) 

New Delhi, the 18th August, 1971 
S .O . 3483 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of Sec 
tion 4 of the Multi - Unit Cooperative Societies Act , 1942 ( 6 of 1942 ) , and in 
supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Agriculture, (Department of Cooperation ) , No. F . 7 - 27 / 86 - Coord , dated the 14th 
July , 1971 , the Central Government hereby appoint Shri K . S . Bawa, Joint 
Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture (Department of Co -operation ), as the 
Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies . 

[ No. 7 / 27 / 66 - Coord. ] 

PRIYA PRAKASH Dy . Secy . 
कृषि मंत्रालय 


( सहकारिता विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली , 18 अगस्त , 1971 


एस० प्रो० 3483. - -बहु -इकाई सहकारी सोसाइटी अधिनियम , 1942 ( 1942 का 6 ) 
की धारा 4 की उप -धारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के कृषि 
मंत्रालय ( सहकारिता विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या एफ 7/ 27/ 66 - कोपार्ड , तारीख 14 जुलाई 
1971 को अधिकान्त करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार कृषि मंत्रालय ( सहकारिता विभाग ) में संयुक्त सचिव 
श्री के० एस० बावा को सहकारी सोसाइटियों के के ब्रीय रजिस्ट्रार के रूप में एतद्वारा नियुक्त करती 


[ संख्या 7/ 27/66 - कोपार्ड ] 

प्रिया प्रकाश , उप सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

(Rallway Board ) 

New Delhi, the 20th August 1971 
8 . O . 3484 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 82B of the Indian 
Railways Act , 1890 (Act IX of 1890 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri P . Basu, retired Chief Judge. City Civil & Session Court , Calcutta, as a 
whole - time Claims Commissioner to deal with the claims for compensation aris 
ing out of the accident involving 103 -UP Diamond Harbour - Sealdah Local 
( EMU ) Train between MAGRA HAT and HOTAR Stations on the Sealdah Divi 
sion of the Eastern Railway on the 6th July , 1971. His headquarters will be at 
Calcutte. 

[ No . E ( O ) II 71 / API / 6. ] 

___ V . P. SAWHNEY, Secy . 
रेल मंत्रालय 

( रेलवे बोर्ड ) 

नई दिल्ली , 20 अगस्त , 1971 
एस० ओ० 3484 --- भारतीय रेल अधिनियम , 1890 ( 1890 का अधिनिमम 9 की धारा 
82- ख द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा नगर सिविल एवं सेशन्स 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/BHADRA 27 , 1893 4845 


न्यायालय, कलकत्ता के सेवा निवृत्त मुख्य न्यायाधीश, पी० बसु , को और दक्षिण- पूर्व रेलवे के सियालदह 
मण्डल में मगग हाट और होटर स्टेशनों के बीच , 6 जुलाई, 1971 को 103 अप डायमंड हार्बर 
सियालदह स्थानीय (बिजली ) गाड़ी के साथ घटित दुर्घटना के फलस्वरूप उठने वाले क्षतिपूति के 
दावों के निबटारे के लिए , पूर्णकालिक दावा आयुक्त नियुक्त करती है । 

[संख्या ई ( प्रो ) II / 71/ एच पी 1/ 6] 

वेद प्रकाश साहनी , सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

( Department of Banking ) 

New Delhi, the 17th August 1971 
S . O . 3486 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ), the Central Government, on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions of section 
9 of the said Act shall not apply to the Catholic Syrian Bank Ltd ., Trichur, till 
the 1st August, 1972, in respect of the immovable property held by it at Thoppum 
pady , Palluruthy , Cochin, Ernakulam District , Kerala State . 

[ No . F . 15 ( 20 ) - BC / 71. ] 
वित्त मंत्रालय 

( बैंकिग विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 17 अगस्त , 1971 
एस०पी० 3485. – अकिंग विनियमन अधिनियम , 1949 ( 1949 का दसवां ) की धारा 
53 के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, भारत सरकार , भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक की सिफारिश पर 
एतद्द्वारा घोषित करती है कि उपर्युक्त अधिनियम की धारा 9 के उपबन्ध दी कथोलिक सीरियन 
बैंक लिमिटेड , निचूर पर , उसकी थी पुमपैडी , पल्लुरुथी , कोचीन, जिला एर्नाकुलम, केरल राज्य स्थित 
अचल सम्पत्ति के सम्बन्ध में पहली अगस्त, 1972 तक लागू नहीं होंगे । 

[ संख्या 15 ( 20) - बी०सी०/ 71] 
New Delhi, the 27th August 1971 
SO, 3486. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Regulation Act , 1949 (10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions of sub 
clause ( 1 ) and (ii ) of clause ( c ) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the said Act , 
shall not apply to Frontier Bank Ltd., New Delhi till the 6th June, 1972, or till 
the date of its conversions into a non -banking Company / winding up of its affairs , 
whichever is earlier , in so far as the said provisions prohibit Its Chief Executive 
Officer from being the Managing Director of the Gola Private Ltd ., Delbl, 

[ No. F . 15( 13 )- BC / 71. ] 
नयी दिल्ली , 27 अगस्त , 1971. 
एस प्रो० 3486- बैंकिग विनियमन अधिनियम , 1949 ( 1949 का दसवां ) की धारा 53 द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार, भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक की सिफारिश पर एतद्द्वारा 
यह घोषित करती है कि उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 की उप - धारा ( 1 ) के खंड ( ग ) के उपखंड 
( i ) और ( i ) के उपबंध फ्रंटियर बैंक लिमिटेड, नयी दिल्ली पर, जहां तक उन उपबंधों का प्रयोजन 
उपर्युक्त बैंक के मुख्य कार्यकारी अधिकारी को गौला प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, दिल्ली का प्रबंध निदेशक बनने 
से रोकना 6 जन 1972 तक अथवा उस तारीख तक जब उपर्युक्त बैंक गैर बैंकिंग कम्पनी में परिवर्तित 
हो जाय अपना कार्य समाप्त कर दे, इन दोनों तारीखों में से जो भी पहले हो , उस तक लागू नहीं होंगे । 

[ स० एफ०15( 13) -बी०सी० / 71 ] 


New Delhi, the 28th August 1971 
S . O . 3487. - Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the zoth August 1971. 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Ra. 


Capital Paid Up 
Reserve Fund 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


5,00,00,000 Notes 

Rupee Coin . 
150,00,00 ,000 Small Coin 

Bills Purchased and Discounted : 


20 ,51,98 ,000 

4335, 000 
3 , 54 ,030 


NationalAgricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fuod . 
National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund , . 


1846 
THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
SEPTEMBER 
18 
, 
1971 
/ 
BHADRA 
27 
, 
1893 
( 
PART 
II 


National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund . , 


190 ,00 ,00 ,cco (a ) Internal . . 

8,5489 ,000 
(b ) External 
39 ,00,00,000 ) Government Treasury Bills. . : : : 58 ,59 ,81,000 
Balances Held Abroad 

147 , 35 66 ,000 
Investments * * . 

, 220 , 38 , 18 , 000 
135 ,00 ,00, 000 Loans and Advances to: 

(i ) CentralGovernment . 

(i ) State Governments @ . . . . . 183,46,68 ,000 
Loans and Advances to 

(1) Scheduled Commercial Bankst . . . 130,66 ,90 ,000 
(i ) State Co- operative Banksft 

· · 220 70 , 37,000 
53 ,22, 53 , 000 ( ii ) Others . . . . 

. . 3 ,64 ,30 ,000 
4 , 17308 ,000 Loans, Advances and lavestments from National Agricultural 

Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund . 

( a ) Loans and Advences to : 
199,17,60 ,000 (1) State Governments . . . . . . 42 ,02 ,72 ,000 
8 ,58 ,87,000 (ü ) State Co-operative Banks. 

· 23 ,21, 13,000 
82 ,21, 000 (ii) Central Land Mortgage Banks. 
[ 50 ,81,000 ( b ) Investment in Central and Mortgage Bank Deber 
tures 

10 , 14 ,98 ,000 
Loans and Advances from National Agricultural 
Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund . 


Deposits : - 
( a ) Government 

1) CentralGovernment 
(0 ) State Governments . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


(b ) Banks 

(1) Scheduled Commercial Banks. . . . 

ü ) Scheduled State Co- operative Banks. 
(i ) Non -Scheduled State Co -operative Banks . . 
( iv ) Other Banks. . . . . . . 


. 


(C) Others 


193 ,63 , 69,000 


Bills Payable 


. 


. . 


. 


. . . 


Loans and Advances to State Co -operative Banks . 13,67,41, 000 
Loans, Advances and Investments from National Indus 

trial Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund 
(a) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank 55 ,29 ,21,000 
(b ) Investment in bonds /debentures issued by the 

Development Bank . . . . 
Other Assets 

33 , 90 ,46 ,000 
Rupees 

1172 ,22 ,57.000 


40 ,37 , 16 ,000 


Other Liabilities. 


. 


. 


. . 


. . 
Rupees 


152 ,32 ,62,000 
1172 ,22 ,57,000 


* Includes Cash , Fixed Deposits and Short -term Securities. 
* * Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term 

Operations) Fund. 
@ Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund , but including temporary overdiaf1s 10 

State Governments. 
Inciudes Rs. 86 ,41,00 ,000 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Secticp 17 (4 ) (c ) of theReserve Bank of India Act 
IfExcluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Opxrations) Find and the National Agricultural Credit 

(Stabilisation ) Fund . 


Sec.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER18,1971/BHADRA27,18934847 


Dated the 25th day of August, 1971. 


An Account pursuant to the RESERVE BANK OF INDIA ACT, 1934 , for the week ended the 20th day of Angust, 1971. 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT. 


LIABILITIES 


LIABILITIES 


RS. 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs. 


rtment , 


. 


182,53 , 11,000 


Notes held in the Banking Department. 
Notes in circulation . . . . 
Total Notes Issued . 

. . 


. 20,51, 98 ,000 

Gold Coin and Bullion — 

(a ) Held in India. . . . 
. 4312,45,41,000 

(b ) Held outside India 
. 4332 ,97, 39 ,000 
Foreign Securities. 

Toraz . . 
Rupee Coin 
Governmentof India Rupee Securities . 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other Com 
mercial paper . . 


- 


TOTAL 


. 


223 ,42 ,00 ,000 
. 405, 95 , 11, 000 

44 ,06,48 ,000 
3882 ,95,80 ,000 


. 


- 


- 


4848THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER18,1971/BHADRA27,1893[PARTII— 


-- 


TOTAL LIABILITIES. 


. 


. 


. 


4332, 97 ,39, 000 


TOTAL ASSETS. 


4332, 97,39, 000 


Dated the 25th day of August , 1971. 


( Sd .) S. JAGANNATHAN , 

Governor 

[ No, F . 36 )- BC / 71 ] 
K . YESURATNAM , Under Secy . 


नई दिल्ली , 28 अगस्त , 1971 
एस० प्रो० 3487. -- 20 अगस्त 1971 को रिजर्व बैंक ग्राफ इंडिया के बैंकिंग विभाग के कार्यालय का विवरण 


देयताएं 


रुपये 


आस्तियाँ 


रुपए 


20, 51, 98, 000 

4, 35, 000 
3, 54, 000 


. 


. 


8, 54, 89, 000 


चुक्ता पूंजी 
आरक्षित निधि 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण 
( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि . 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण 
(स्थिरीकरण ) निधि 
राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण 
( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि . 
जमा राशियां : - - 
( क ) सरकारी 
( i ) केन्द्रीय सरकार 
( i ) राज्य सरकारें 


5 , 00, 00, 000 नोट . 
150, 00, 00,000 रुपये का सिक्का . 

छोटा सिक्का 
190, 00, 00, 000 खरीदे और भुनाये गयेबिल : 

( क ) देशी 
39, 00, 00, 000 ( ख ) विदेशी 

( ग ) सरकारी खजाना बिल 
135 , 00, 00, 000 विदेशों में रखा हुआ बकाया * 

निवेश * * 

ऋण और अग्रिम : 
53, 22, 53, 000 (i ) केन्द्रीय सरकार को 
___ 4, 17, 08, 000 ( ii ) राज्य सरकारों को @ 


58, 59, 81 , 000 
147, 35, 66, 000 
220, 38,18, 000 


SEC.3(1)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER18,1971/BHADRA27,18934849 


183, 46, 68, 000 


( ख ) बैंक 


199,17, 60, 000 


( i) अनुसूचित वाणिज्य बैंक . . 
( ii ) अनुसूचित राज्य 

सहकारी बैंक . . . . 
( iii ) गैर अनुसूचित राज्य सहकारी बैंक . . 


ऋण और अग्रिम : 

(i ) अनुसूचित वाणिज्य बैंकों को । 
(ii ) राज्य सहकारी बैंकों को ft 
(iii ) दूसरों को . . 


130, 66, 90, 000 
220, 70, 37, 000 

3, 64, 30, 000 


8, 98, 87, 000 
82, 21, 000 


. 


. 


- 


- 


देयताएं 


रुपय 


रुपये 


(iv ) अन्य बैंक 


50, 81, 000 


( ग ) अन्य 
देय बिल 


193, 63, 69, 000 
40, 37, 16, 900 


मास्तियां 
राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण (दीर्घकालीन त्रियाएं ) निधि से 

ऋण, अग्रिम औरनिवेश 
( क ) ऋण और अग्रिम 
( i ) राज्य सरकारों को , 

42, 02, 72, 000 
( ii ) राज्य सहकारी बैंकों को 

23, 21, 13, 000 
(ii ) केन्द्रीय भूमिबंधक बैंकों को . 
( ख ) केन्द्रीय भूमिबंधक बैंकों के डिबेंचरों में निवेश 10, 14, 98, 000 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (स्थिरीकरण ) निधि से 
ऋण और अग्रिम 
राज्य सहकारी बैंकों को ऋण और अग्रिम 

13, 67, 41, 000 
राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि से 
ऋण , अग्रिम और निवेश 
( क ) विकास वक को ऋण और अग्रिम 

55, 29, 21 , 000 
( ख ) विकास बैंक द्वारा जारी किए गए बांडों /डिबेंचरों में निवेश 
अन्य आस्तियां 

33, 90, 46, 000 


अन्य देयताएं 


. 


. 


. 


. 


152, 32, 52 , 000 


4850THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER18,1971/BHADRA21,1893[PARTII 


रुपये 1172, 22, 57, 000 

रुपये 1172, 22, 57, 000 
* नगदी , आवधिक जमा और अल्पकालीन प्रतिभूतियां शामिल हैं । 
* * राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि और राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण (दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि में से किए गए निवेश शामिल नहीं हैं । 

@ राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि से प्रदत्त ऋण और अग्रिम शामिल नहीं है , परन्तु राज्य सरकारों के अस्थाई प्रोवरड्राफ्ट शामिल है । 
। रिजर्व बैंक आफ इण्डिया अधिनियम की धारा 17 ( 4 ) ( ग ) के अधीन अनुसूचित वाणिज्य बैंकों को मीयादी बिलों पर अग्रिम दिए गए 66, 41, 00,000 

रूपये शामिल हैं । 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (दीर्घकलीन क्रियाएं ) निधि और राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (स्थिरीकरण ) निधि से प्रदत्त ऋण और अग्रिम शामिल नहीं है । 
तारीख 25 अगस्त 1971 


रिजर्वबैंक आफ इंडिया अधिनियम , 1934 के अनुसरण में अगस्त 1971 की 20 तारीख को समाप्त हुए सप्ताह के लिए लेखा 

__ इशू विभाग 


देयताएं 


रुपये 


रुपये 


रुपये 


बैंकिंग विभाग में रखे हए नोट 


20 ,51, 98, 000 


आस्तियां 

रुपये . 
सोने का सिक्का और बुलियन : 
( क ) भारत में रखा हुआ 182, 53, 11, 000 
( ख ) भारत के बाहर रखा हुआ 
विदेशी प्रतिभूतियाँ 

223, 42, 00, 000 


संचलन में नोट 


43, 12, 45, 41, 000 


- - -- - - - - 


405, 95 , : 1, 000 


बारी किए गये कुल नोट 


4332, 97, 39, 000 


रुपये का सिक्का 
भारत सरकार की रुपया प्रतिभूतियाँ 
देशी विनियम बिल और दूसरे 
पाणिज्य पत्र 


44, 06, 48, 000 
3882, 95, 80, 000 


Sec.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER18,1971/BHADRA27,18934851 


कुल देयताएं 


4332, 97, 39, 000 


कुल आस्तियां 


4332, 97 , 39, 000 


तारीख 25 अगस्त 1971 


( ह० ) एस . जगन्नाथन, मवर्नर । 
[ सं० एफ० 3( 3) ची० सी०/ 71 ] 

के . येसुरत्नम , अनुसचिव । 


4852 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/ BHADRA 27 , 1893 (PART II 


(Department of Banking ) 

New Delhi , the 19th August 1971 
S . O . 3488. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 53 read with Sec 
tion 56 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government, 
on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the 
provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 11 of the said Act shall not apply to the 
undernoted cooperative banks for a further period of one year from 1 March 1971 
to 29 February 1972 : 

( 1 ) The Chandigarh State Co - operative Bank Ltd ., Chandigarh . 
(2 ) The Raichur District Industrial Cooperative Bank Ltd ., Raichur . 
( 3 ) The Kamrup District Central Cooperative Bank Ltd., Gauhati . 
(4 ) The City Cooperative Bank Ltd ., Bombay . 

[ No , F . 15 - 8 / 71 ACII. ] 


( बैकिंग विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 19 अगस्त , 1971 
एस० प्रो० 3488 . ---बैंकिंग विनियमन अधिनियम , 1949 (1949 का 10 वा ) की 
धारा 56 के साथ पठित धारा 53 के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार , 
भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक की सिफारिश पर, एतदद्वारा यह घोषित करती है कि उक्त अधिनियम की 
धारा 11 की उप -धारा ( 1 ) के उपबन्ध अधोलिखित सहकारी बैंकों पर 1 मार्च, 1971 129 
फरवरी. 1972 तक की एक वर्ष की अतिरिक्त अवधि के लिए लागू नहीं होगें : -- - 

( 1 ) चंडीगढ़ स्टेट कोआपरेटिव बैंक लिमिटेड, चंडीगढ़ 
( 2 ) रायचुर डिस्ट्रिक्ट इंडस्ट्रियल कोआपरेटिव बैक लिमिटेड, रायचूर 
( 3 ) दो कामरूप डिस्ट्रिक्ट सेट्रल कोप्रापिरेटिव बैंक लिमिटेड, गोहाटी 
( 4 ) दी सिटी का आपरेटिव बैंक लिमिटेड, बम्बई 

[ संख्या एफ० 15 - 6/ 71-ए० सी० II ] 


New Delhi, the 23rd. August 1971 
S. 0 . 3489. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 53 read with Sec 
tion 56 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government, 
on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the 
provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 11 of the said Act shall not apply to the 
undernoted cooperative banks for a further period of one year from 1 March 1971 
to 29 February 18723 

1. The Mitra Mandal Sahakari Bank Ltd ., Indore 
2 . The Baranagore Cooperative Bank Ltd ., Baranagore , Calcutta . 
3 The Vishvakarma Cooperative Bank Ltd ., Bombay 
4. The Malvan Cooperative Urban Bank Ltd ., Malvan 

[ No. F . 15 -8 / 71 ACII.] 
L . D . KATARIA, Dy . Secy . 


नई दिल्ली , 23 अगस्त , 1971 


एस० पो० 3489 . -- - बैंकिंग विनियमन अधिनियम , 1949 (1949 का 10वां ) 
की धारा 56 के साथ पठित धारा 53 के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक की मिफारिश पर एनद्वारा घोषित करती है कि उक्त अधिनियम 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / BHADRA 27, 1893 4853 


की धारा 11 की उप -धारा ( 1 ) के उपबन्ध पहली मार्च, 1971, 29 फरवरी , 1972 तक की 
एक वर्ष की अतिरिक्त अवधि के लिए निम् लिखित सहकारी बैंकों पर लाग नहीं होंगे : - - 

1. मित्र मण्डल सहकारी बैंक लिमिटेड इन्दौर 
2. बड़ा नगोर कोआपरेटिव बैक लिमिटेड , बड़ानगोर, कलकत्ता 
3. विश्वकर्मा कोआपरेटिव बैंक लिमिटेड, बम्बई 
4. मालवान क . प्रापरेटिव बैक अर्बन लिमिटेड , मालवान । 

[ सं० एफ० 15-6/ 71-ए० सी०- II ] 
एल० डी० कटारिया , उप सचिव । 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

INCOME - TAx 

New Delhi, the 7th July 1971 
S . O . 3490 . - In pursuance of sub -clause (li ) of clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of 
Section 138 of Income-tax Act , 1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) , the Central Government hereby 
spccifies the Cane Commissioner , U . P . for the purposes of that sub - Clause , 

[ No. 2122 ( F. No. 397 / 36 / 71 -ITCC ) .] 
( राजस्व और धीमा विभाग ) 


( आय- कर ) 

नई दिल्लो , 7 जुलाई, 1971 
एस० प्रो० 3490 . --- प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 (1961 का 43 ) की धारा 138 
की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खंड ( क ) के उपखड ( 1 ) के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार उस उपखंड के प्रयोजनों 
के लिए एतद्वारा गन्ना पायुक्त , उत्तर प्रदेश की विनिदि ट करती है । 

[ सं० 212 ( फा० सं० 397/ 36/ 71 - पाई टी सी सी ] 


New Delhi, the 7th July 1971 
S. 0 . 3491 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause (iii ) of Clause 
( 44) of Section 2 of the Income -tax Act, 1981 ( 43 of 1981 ) the Central Government 
hereby authorises Shri I . C . Shukla who is a Gazetted Offcer of the Central 
Government to exercise the powers of a Tax Recovery Officer under the said Act . 


2 . This Notification which supersedes Notification No. 96 ( F . No. 404 / 86 / 71 / 
ITCC ) dated 24th March , 1971, shall come into force with immediate effect . 

[ No. 225 ( F . No . 404 / 86 / 71 -ITCC ) .] 

S . K . LAL , Dy. Secy . 
नई दिल्ली , 21 जुलाई, 1971 


एस० ० 3491 . - -- प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 2 के 
खण्ड ( 44 ) के उपखण्ड ( iii ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार 
श्री पाई० सी० शुक्ला को , जो केन्द्रीय सरकार का राजपत्रित अधिकारी है , उक्त अधिनियम के 
अधीन कर वसूली अधिकारी की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने के लिए एतद्धारा प्राधिकृत करती है । 


4854 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 /BHADRA 27, 1893 [PART II — 


यह अधिसूचना, जो अधिसूचना सं० 96 ( फा० स० 404 / 86/ 71 - पाई० टी० सी० सी० ) 
ता० 24- 3- 71 को अधिकान्त करती है , तुरन्त प्रवृत्त होगी । 

[सं 225 /फा० सं० 404/ 86/ 71प्राईटीस सी )] 

एस० के० लाल , उप सचिव , । 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi , the 26th July 1971 
S , O , 3492 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) ( b ) of Section 
80G of the Income -tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1961 ) , the Central Government hereby 
notifles Thirupapullyur Shri Pataleeswarar Temple , Guddalore - 2 to be a place of 
public worship of renown for the purpose of the said section , 

[ No . 231 / F . No . 178 /24 / 71 - IT ( AI ) . ] 


( राजस्व और बीमा विभाग ) 


प्रायकर 


नई दिल्ली, 26 जुलाई , 1971 
एस० प्र० 3492.- - प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 80 
की उपधारा 2 ( ख ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार , उक्त धारा के 
प्रयोजन के लिए थिरुवालियर श्री पतालीश्वरार मंदिर, कुड्डोलोर- 2 को सार्वजनिक पूजा का 
विख्यात स्थान के रूप में एतद्द्वारा अधिसूचित करती है । 

[ सं० 231 /फा० सं० 176/ 24/ 71 - प्राई०टी० ( ए० 1 )] 


S . O . 3493 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) ( b ) of 
Section 80G of the Income -tax Act , 1981 ( 43 of 1981 ) , the Central Government 
hereby notifles the following temples to be places of public worship of renowa 
for the purpose of the said section . 

1. Shri Drighvishuji Ka Mandir, Bharatpurgate, Mathura . 
2 . Shri Veer Bhaddeshwarji Ka Mandir , Gali Peer Panch , Mathura . 

( No. 232 / F . No . 176 / 7 / 71 -IT ( AI) . J 
___ _ B. MADHAVAN, Under Secy . 


एस० प्रो० 3493. - - प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 80- छ की 
उपधारा ( 2) ( ख ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार, उक्त धारा के 
प्रयोजनों के लिए निम्नलिखित मंदिरों को सार्वजनिक पूजा के विख्यात स्थान के रूप में एतद्द्वारा 
अधिसूचित करती है । 

1. श्री विधीवशुजुशी का मंदिर , भरतपुर गेट, मथुरा । 
2. श्री वीर भद्देश्वरजी का मंदिर , गली पीर पंच, मथुरा । 
[सं० 232/फा० सं० 176/7/71-प्राई०टी० (ए० 1) ] 

बी० माधवन , अवर सचिव । 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


SBC. 3( 11) ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/ BHADRA 27, 1893 4855 

= 
Central Board of Direct Taxts 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 15th June , 1971 
S . O . 3494.-- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 121 of the 
Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes tho 
following amendments to the schedule appended to its notification No. 20 ( F No. 55 / 1 /62 - IT ) 
dated the 30th April 1963 published as S . O . 1293 on pages 1454 - 1457 of the Gazette of India 
Part - II Section 3 sub - section ( li ) dated the 11th May , 1963 as amended from time to time, 


Existing entries under columns (1 ), (2 ) and (3 ) against S .No. 2 & S .No. 2A shall be substi . 
tuted by the following entries : 


Income- tex 
Commissioners 


Headquarters 


Jurisdiction 


1 . Andhra Pradesh - I 


Hyderabad 


I . Circle - III, Hyderabad 
2 . Special Circle - 1, Hyderabad . 
3 , alary Circle, Hyderabad 
4 . Srikakulam 
5. Visakhapatnam 
6 . Company Circle , Hyderabad 
7 . Vizianagaram 
8 . Anakapalle 
9 . Rajahmundry 
10 . Amalapuram 
II, Circle - 1, Kakinada 
12 . Circle - II, Kakinada 
13. Bluru 
14 . Palakol 
15 . Tanuku 
16 . Vijayawada 
17 . Machilipatnam 
18 . Gudivada 
19 . Tax Recovery Circle , Hyderabad . 
20. Tax Recovery Circle Vijayawada 
21. Tax Recovery Circle , Nellore , 
22. Estate Duty - cum - Income-tax Circle , Hyderabad . 
25 . Estate Duty - Income-tax Circlc , Kakinada, 
24. Estate Duty -cum - Income- tax Circle , Guntur. 


2A . Andhra Pradesh - I1 Hyderabad . 


I. Circle - II, Hyderabad , 
2 . Special Circle - 11, Hyderabad . 
3 . Project Circle , Hyderabad . 
4 . Nizamabad 
5 . Sangareddy 
6 . Nirmal 
7 . Circle - I, Hyderabad , 
8 . Warrangal 
9 . Khammam 
IO . Kothagudem 
II, Guntur 
12 . Karimnagar 
13 . Ten alı 
14 . Bapatla 
15 . Nellore 
16 . Chittoor 
17 . Tirupati 
18 . Cuddapah 
19 . Proddatur 
20 . Anantapur 
21. Hindupur 


4856 THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / BHADRA 27, 1893 [ PART II -- 


I 


3 


22. Kurnool 
23 . Nandyal 
24 . Adont 
25 . Mahabunagar . 


This notification shall take effect from 15 -6 - 1971 . 

[ No . 190/ F. No . 187/ 3/70-IT ( AI 
____ B. MADHAVAN, Under Secy . 


केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड 

( माय -कर ) 

नई दिल्ली, 15 जून, 1971 
एस० पी० 3494 . --- प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 121 
की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड अपनी 
अधिसूचना सं0 20( फा० स० 55 /1 / 62 प्राई०टी० ) तारीख 30 अप्रैल , 1963, जो भारत के 
राजपन तारीख 11मई , 1963, भाग 2 , खण्ड 3, उप - खण्ड ( । ) के पृष्ठ 1454 - 1757 पर का०मा० 
1293 के रूप में प्रकाशित हुई थी और जैसी वह समय समय पर संशोधित की गई है, से उपाबद्ध अनुसूची 
में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करता है । 

क्रम सं० 2 और 2क के सामने स्तम्भ ( 1) , ( 2 ) और ( 3) के नीचे विद्यमान प्रविष्टियों 

के लिए निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टियों प्रतिस्थापित की जाएगी : 


अधिकारिता 


आयकर आयुक्त 
( 1) 


मुख्यालय 

( 2) 


( 3 ) 


2 - अान्ध्र प्रदेश-1 


हैदराबाद 


1 - सफिल 3 हैदराबाद 
2 -विशेष सकिल- 1 हैदराबाद. 
3 - वतन सकिल, हैदराबाद 
4 - श्रीकोकुलम 
5 -विशाखापटनम 
6 - कम्पनी सर्किल, हैदराबादः 
7 -विजयनगर 
8 - अनकपाले 
9 - राजासुन्दरी 
10 - अमलापुरम् 
11 - सफिल 1 काकीनाडा 
12 - सकिल 2 काकीनाडा 
13- एलुरु 
14 - पालाकोल 


Sec. 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4857 


_ (1) 


(2) 


( 3 ) 


15 - तानुकू 
16-विजयवाडा 
17 -मछलीपटनन् 
18 - गुडीवाडा 
19 - कर वसूली सकिल , हैदराबाद 
20 - फर वसूली सकिल , विजयवाडा 
21- कर वसूली सर्किल, नेल्लोर 
22 - संपदा शुल्क एवं प्राय -फर सफिल, हैदराबाद 
23 - संपदा शुल्क एवं प्राय - कर सफिल , काकीनाडा 

24 - संपदा शुल्क एवं प्राय -कर सकिल , गुन्टूर 
2क मान्ध्र प्रदेश 2 . हैदराबाद 1 - सकिल 2 हैदराबाद 

2 -विशेष सकिल 2 हैदराबाद 
3 - परियोजनासफिल, हैदराबाद 
4 -निजामाबाद 
5 - सगरेड्डी 
6 - निर्मल 
7 - सकिल 1 हैदराबाद 
8 - वारंगल 
9 - खम्माम 
10 - खोठागुडेम 
11 -करीमनगर 
12 - गुन्टूर 
13 - टेनाली 
14 - पाटला 
15 - नेल्लोर 
16 - चित्तूर 
17 -तिरुपति 
18 - कुडापा 
19 -प्रोदातुर 
20 - अनन्तपुर 
21- हिन्दुपुर 
22 -कुरनूल 
23 - ननडयाल 
24- अडोनी 

25 - महबूब नगर 
यह र धिसूचना 15 - 6 - 1971 से प्रवृत्त होगी । 

[ सं० 190/ फा० सं० 187/ 3/ 70- आई०टी० ( ए० 1 ) ] 

बी . माधवन , अवर सचिव । 


4858 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 1893 [PART I- - 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 
(Offico of the Commissioner of lacomo- tex , Vidharbha and Marathwada ) 

Nagpur, the 10th March 1971 


S . O , 3495. - Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary and 
expedient in public interest to publish the names and other prticulars of the a99e9ces : 

(I) being individuals of Hindu Undivided Families , who have been a89e9ged on an Income 

of more than one lakh of rupees ; 
(ii) being Firms, Association of persons of Companies who have been asscased on an incomo 

of more than 10 lakhs of rupocs ; 
during the financial year 1969 - 70 and høg , therefore in exercise of the power conferred by section 
287 of the Income TAI Act , 1961 (43 of 1967), directed that the name and other particular of the 
asscosces aforesaid be published , the same are hereby published in Schedules I and II hereto 
annexed : 

SCHEDULE I 


Names of allindividuals and H .U .F8. assessed on incomeof over Rø. I lakh during the floancial 
year 1969 - 70 . 


Name and address of the assessce 


Status 


Asstt . Yr. Income 

088cased 

under 
Income tex 

Act , 1961 


Rs. 


. 
. 
. 
. 


1967 -68 
1965 -66 
1965 -66 


1,18, 169 
1, 56 ,667 
1,04 ,491 


1965 -66 
1965-66 
1965- 66 
1963 -66 


3,06, 208 
1 ,20 ,833 
4 , 35 , 676 
1 ,82, 108 


1965 -66 


4 , 57 ,223 


, 


1968 - 69 


1,67, 322 


I Shri B . D . Thapar, C /o M /8 Sunil Construc- Individual , 

tion Co., Ramdaspeth , Ngp . 
2 Shri Zoeb $. Vali C /o M /8. Sadiq & Co.. Mo- Individual , 

unt Road , Extn ., Nagpur . 
3 ShriMohd . S . Vali , Clo M /s. Sadiq & Co. Individual , 

Mount Road , Exten ., Nagpur . 
4 Shri Sadiq Bhai C /o M /s , Sadiq & Co .Mount Individual , 

Road , Extn ., Nagpur . 
5 Shri D . S . Kharabe , Ghat Road , Nagpur. , Individual 
6 Shri Ashgarali Hassanall , Loba 011, Nagpur, Individual 
7 Shri Ballumal Aildas C / o . M /8 . Alldas Khan Individuali 

chand and c / o . Gandhibagh , Ngp . 
8 Shri Abdullabhai Hassanali , C / o M /8 . Abdul Individual , 

Hungain M . Alibux Loha Oll, Nagpur, 
9 Shri B . D . Thapar C /o M / 8, Sunil Construc- Individual . 

tion Co . Ramdaspeth , Nagpur, 
Shri G . M . Chitnavis Mahal,Nagpur. , Indidual . 
The Officer Incharge, Court of Wards in the H . U . F . , 

case of Rajc Raghjirao und Co . MahalNag 
12 Shri Kimmatram P /OM . 8 , Kimatram Radha- Tadividual . 

kishan and Co . Gandhibagh , Nagp . 
13 Shri Hiranand P /o M /8 Kimatraq Racha- Idividual . 

kishan & Co. Gendhibagh , Ngp . 
14 Shri Pappumal coM & Kimmatram Radha. Individual , 

kishan & Co, Gandhbagh , Nagp . 
15 Shri B . P . Kanoria, Gandhibah , Nagpur . Individual . 
16 Mohanlal Motilal Subhash Road , Nagpur. . HU , F . . 
17 Shri Dablat singh Itwaci, Nagpur 

Individual 
18 Smt, Ratanbai Forwal Kamptec , Individual 
19 Shri Nemkumar Porwal Kamptco 

Individual 
20 ShriMahijibhai Bhailabhai, Gondia . . Individual. 
21 Shri Chunnilal Hirjce Wadera , Gonda , Individual. , 


. 
, 


1965 -66 
1964 -69 


1 ,42 , 426 
1,31, 250 


. 


1965-66 


. 
. 


1965 -66 
1965-66 


3, 17, 773 

2,67944 
3,09, 547 


. 


1965- 66 
1965- 66 
1956 -57 
1965-66 
1965 -66 
1967- 68 
1965-66 


1, 15 ,873 
2 , 17,645 
1 , 01, 564 
1 , 19 ,632 
2 ,61,183 
1 , 17,315 
1,01,063 


Tual 
. 


. 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4859 


Individual 


1965- -66 


1, 30 ,443 


Individual 


1965 - 66 


1, 50 ,72 


Individual 


1,03 ,782 


1965-66 
1965-66 


Individual 


1 ,44, 303 


Individual 
Individual 
Individual 


1965- 66 

1965 - 66 
1969 - 70 


1,73,367 
1 ,66 , 043 
1 , 04 , 595 


22 Shr Raijibhai Dhoribhai, , , , 

Gondia 
23 Shri D . P . Rai, 210 Laxminagar, . . 

Nagpur . . . 
24 Shri Jagatnaren Goyal P / o M /8 , Mah 

avir Oil Mills ŞitabuediNagpur .. . 
25 Shri P . B . Mundhada, 

Şitabuldi, Nagpur , 
26 Shri Y . A . Kherc 

Dharampeth ,Nagpur. . 
27 Shri R . M . Tarkunde Pram Road, Nagpur 
28 Shri Sheyadanm al Architect, Ghatatc , 

Chamber Nagar, 
29 Shri Hariram Mayaram , Darwha 
30 Shri Ramkrishna Baja ), Wardha 

. 
31 Shri G . G . Patel Chandraput 
32 Shri Kisanlal Bajoria , Akola . 
33 Shri Kishanlal Bajoira , Akola . 

Shri Ganeshlal Rekchand , Akola . 
Shri Seth Gopaldas Mobata , Akola , 

ShriSeth Gopaldas Mohata , Akole . 
37 Shri Mohanla ! Shankarlal, Akola 
38 Shri Chunilal Nathmal, Nandura . 
39 Shri G . V . Saoji Malkpur 

. 
40 Shri Ratanlal Chotelal, Achalpur . 

al norejat, Achalpur . ,. . 
41 Shri R . P . Khajanchi, Amravati. 
42 Shri Shillagappa Shankarappa Mendsh , 

Amravati 
43 Shri Ghosirma Pholchand, Amravati 

, 
44 Shri S . L . Rathi, Amravati , 
45 Shri S . S . Jain . Amravati. . 
46 Shri K . S . Zagadc, Amravati. . . 
47 Shri Dayan Ranchodd as , Latur . 
48 Shri Shriram Dagdulal, Jalna, . . 


H . U , F , 

H . U . F . 
Individual 
H . U . F . 
H . U . F . 
H . U . F . 
H . U . R . 
H . U . F . 
Individual 
Individual 
H . U . P . 
Individual 
Individual 


1967 -68 
1969 - 70 
1969 - 70 
1967 - 68 
1968 -69 
1967-68 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 
1969 - 70 
1965- 66 
1969- 70 
1969 -70 
1965 -66 


1 ,07,000 
1 , 11 ,754 
1 , 16 , 190 
1 , 11 , 530 
1 , 24 ,980 
1, 29 ,610 
3 ,06 , 980 
3,06, 980 
3 , 05,820 
1 ,05 , 960 
1, 16 , 630 
1 , 12 , 900 
1 ,89, 590 


Individual 
H . U . F . 
Individual 
Individual 
Individual 
Individual 
H . U . F . 


1965 -66 
1965-66 
1965 -66 
1965 - 66 
1967 -68 
1964 - 65 
1965 -66 


1 ,04,910 
1, 14 , 365 
1, 25 ,500 
1 ,37 , 593 
1 ,06 ,690 
1 , 15 ,470 
1 ,06 , 130 


SCHEDULE - II 
Name of all Firm , Anzaion of persons and Co.nplaies assessed on income of over Rs. Io 
Lakhs during th : Financial year 1969 - 70 , 


Naine and address of the Asgesace 


Status 


Asstt, Year 


Income 
a99e98cd 
under the 
Income-tax 
Act 5 , 1961 


2 


Company 


1965 -66 


57,69 ,248 


- 
M /sManganes Ore (India ) Ltd .Mount Road , 

Nagpur 
2 M /s CP. M . O . Pyr., Ltd .Mount Road , 

Nagpur . 
3. M s Khare & Tarkunde Pvt Ltd. Kuingsway, 

Nagpur . 
4 M /s Gondia Electric Supply Co . Gondia . 


Company 


1965-66 


67 ,88 ,447 


Company 
Company 


1965 -66 
1965 - 66 


10 , 11, 577 
13 , 23 ,485 


INo. F . No. Recy/ 19 / 70 - 71. ] 

V . J . KARNIK ) 
Commissioner of Incometax , 
Vidarhbha and Marathwada , 

Nagpur , 


4860 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 /BHADRA 27 , 1893 [ PART II 


राजस्व और बीमा विभाग 
( प्रायकर आयुक्त कार्यलय विदर्भ पौर मराठवाडा ) नागपर 


नागपुर, 10 मार्च, 1971 


एस . मो० 3495. - जब कि केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि ऐसे निधारितियां के नाम और 
अन्य विवरणों को प्रकाशित करना लोकहित में प्रावश्यक और समयोचित है , जिनका वित्तीय वर्ष 
1969: - 1970 के अन्तर्गत : 

( i ) व्यष्टियां या हिन्दू अविभक्त कुटुम्बों के रूप में एक लाख रुपये से अधिक की प्राय 

पर निर्धारण हुआ है ; 
( i) फर्मों व्यक्ति संगम या कम्पनियों के रूप में , 10 लाख रुपये से अधिक की प्राय 

पर निर्धारण हुआ है ; 
और इस लिए प्रायकर अधिनियम 1961 ( 1961 का 43) की धारा 287 के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्ति 
का प्रयोग करते हुए निदेश दिया है कि पूर्वोक्त निर्धारिततियों के नाम तथा अन्य विवरणों को 
प्रकाशित कर दिया जाय ; 
प्रतः संलग्न अनुसूची i और ii में उन्हें प्रकाशित किया जाता है : 

अनुसूची 1 
वित्तीय वर्ष 1969 - 70 के अन्तर्गत 1 लाख से अधिक की प्राय पर निर्धारित समस्त व्यष्टियों 

व हिन्दू अविभक्त कुटुम्बों के नाम 


निर्धारिती का नाम व पता 


क्रम 
संख्या 


प्रास्थिति निर्धारण वर्ष प्रायफर अधि 

नियम , 1961 के 
अधीन निर्धारित 


प्राय 


5 


1967 - 68 


1 ,18, 169 


1965 - 66 


1 , 56, 667 


1 श्री वी० डी० थापर, मारफत मैसर्स व्यष्टि 
___ सुनील कन्सट्रक्शन कम्पनी, रामदास 

पेठ नागपुर । 
2 श्री जोव एस० वाली मारफत मैसर्स व्यष्टि 

सादिक एंड कम्पनी , माउंट रोड , 

एक्सटशन नागपुर । 
3 श्री मुहम्मद एस० वाली मारफत सादिक व्यष्टि 

एंड कम्पनी , माऊन्ट रोड , नागपुर 
4 श्री सादिक भाई मारफत मै० सादिक व्यष्टि 

एंड कं०, माउंट रोड, एक्सटेंशन , 
नागपुर । 


1965 - 66 


1 , 04, 491 


1965 - 66 


____ 1 , 06, 208 


SEC. 3( il) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 48611 


2 


5 


1965 - 66 


1 , 20, 833 


1965 - 66 


4, 35 , 676. 


1965 - 66 


1 , 82, 108: 


1965 - 66 


4, 57, 223. 


1968 - 69 


1 , 67, 322: 


1965 - 66 
1964 - 65 


1 ,42, 426 
1 , 31 , 250 


5 श्री डी० एस० सरोव , घाट रोड, व्यष्टि 

नागपुर । 
6 श्री अशगरअली , हासानाली , लोल्हापोली , व्यष्टि 

नागपुर । 
7 श्री बाल मल एलदास मारफत मैसर्स व्यष्टि 

एलदास खानचन्द एंड कं०, गांधीबाग , 

नागपुर । 
8 श्री अब्दुल्ला भाई, हासानाली मारफत व्यष्टि 

मैसर्स अब्दुल हुसैन एम० अलीया 

वक्स लोहा प्रोली , नागपुर । । 
9 श्री बी० डी० थापर मारफत मैसर्स व्यष्टि 

सुनील कन्सट्रक्शन कं०, रामदास पेठ 

नागपुर । 
10 श्री जी० एम० चिटनवीस महल , नागपुर व्यष्टि 
11 कार्यभारी अधिकारी राजे रघुजी राव हि० प्र० कु० 

भौंसले के मामले में प्रतिपालक 

अधिकरण ( कोर्ट प्राफ बाईस ) 
12 श्री कीमतराम प्रो० मैसर्स कीमतराम व्यष्टि 

राधाकिशन एंड कम्पनी , गांधी बाग , 

नागपुर । 
13 श्री हीरानन्द प्रो०मैसर्स कीमतराम राधा- व्यष्टि 

किशन एंड कम्पनी , गांधीबाग , 

नागपुर । 
14 श्री पप्पूमल प्रो० मैसर्स कीमतराम ध्यष्टि 

राधाकिशन 
15 श्री वी० पी० कनोरिया , गांधी बाग , व्यष्टि 

नागपुर । 
16 श्री मोहनलाल मोतीलाल सुभाष रोड, हि० प्र० कु . 

नागपुर । 
17 श्री दौलत सिंह इतवारी , नागपुर व्यष्टि 
18 श्रीमती रतनबाई कोरवाल काम्पटो । व्यष्टि 
19 श्री नेमकुमार पोरवाल काम्पटी . व्यष्टि 
20 श्री महो जो भाई भाई लालभाई, गोंदिया व्यष्टि 
21 श्री चुन्नीलाल होरजी, वाडेरा, गोदिया व्यष्टि 
22 श्री राय जो भाई बोरो भाई , गोंदिया व्यष्टि 


1965 - 66 


3, 17, 773 


1965 - 66 


2, 67 , 441 


1965- 66 


3, 09 , 547 


1965 - 66 


1 ,15, 873 


1965 - 66 


2, 17, 645 


1956 - 57 


1965 - 66 
1965 - 66 
1967 - 68 
1965 - 66 
1965 - 66 


1, 01, 564 
1,19, 632 
2, 61, 183 
1, 17, 315 ) 
1, 01, 063 
1, 30,443 


- 4862 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/ BHADRA 27 , 1893 [ PART II --- 


1 


2 


1965 - 66 


1, 50, 723 


1965 - 66 


1, 03, 782 


1965 - 66 


1, 44, 305 


23 श्री डी० पी० राय , 2 10, लक्ष्मी नगर, व्यष्टि 

नागपुर । 
24 श्री जगत नारायण गोयल, प्रो० मैसर्स व्यष्टि 

महाबीर तेल मिल्स , सोतावल्डी , 

नागपुर 
25 श्री पी० बी० मुनघादा , सीता बिल्डी, व्यष्टि 

नागपुर । 
26 श्री वाई . ए . खरे धर्म पेठ , व्यष्टि 

नागपुर 
27 श्री प्रार० एम० तारकुडे, पाम ोल , व्यष्टि 

नागपुर । 
28 श्री शिवदानमाल पाकिटेक्ट , घटोट व्यष्टि 

चैम्बर्स , नागपुर । 
29 श्री हरी राम मायाराम , दरसा । हि०प्र०म० 
30 श्री राम किशन बजाज, वार्धा । हि०प्र० कु . 


1965 - 66 


1 , 73, 367 


1965 - 66 


1, 66, 043 


1969 - 70 


1, 04, 595 


1967 - 68 


1, 07, 000 


1969 - 70 


1, ] 1, 754 


31 श्री सी० जी० पटेल, चन्द्रपुर । 


व्यष्टि 


1969 - 70 


1, 16, 190 


1967 - 68 


1 ,11, 530 


1968 - 69 


1, 24 , 980 


1967 - 68 


1 , 29, 610 


1965 - 66 


3, 06, 980 


1966 - 67 


3, 06, 980 


1969 - 70 


1 , 05, 820 


32 श्री किशनलाल बजोरिया , अकोला हि० अ० कु० 
33 श्री किशनलाल बजोरिया , अकोला हि०प्र०कु० 
34 श्री गनेशलाल रेगचन्द , अकोला 

हि०प्र०कु० 
35 श्री सेठ गोपालदास मोहता , अकोला हि०प०कु० 
36 श्री सेठ गोपालदास मोहता , अकोला हि०अ०० 
37 श्री मोहनलाल शंकरलाल , अकोला व्यष्टि 
38 श्री चुनीलाल नाथमल , नदुरा 

व्यष्टि 
39 श्री जी० बी० साउजी, मलकापुर हि०प्र०कु० 
40 श्री रतनलाल छोटेलाल , अचलापुर 

व्यष्टि 
41 श्री पार० पी० खजाची, अमरावती व्यष्टि 
42 श्री शिपोलिगप्पा शंकरपा मेन्डश , 
अमरावती 

हि०प्र०कु० 


1965 - 66 


1 , 05 , 960 


1969 - 70 


1 , 16, 630 


1969 - 70 


1 , 12, 000 


1965 - 66 


1. 89, 590 


1965 - 66 


1 , 04, 910 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 /BHADRA 27 , 1893 4863 


2 


3 


5 


- 


- - - - - - - 


43 श्री घोसीराम फूलचन्द , अमरावती 


हि०प्र०कु० 1965 - 66 


1 , 14, 365 


व्यष्टि 


1965 - 66 


1, 25 , 510 


व्यष्टि 


1965 - 66 


1, 37 ,593, 


44 श्री एस . एल . राठी, अमरावती 
45 श्री एस० एस० जैन , अमरावती 
46 श्री के० एस० जगदे, अमरावती 
47 श्री दयान रनछोउ दास , लटूर 
48 श्री श्रीराम दगदू लाल , जलना 


व्यष्टि 


1967 - 68 


1 , 06, 690 


व्यष्टि 


1964 - 65 


1 , 15, 470 


हि०प्र०कु० 


1965 - 66 


1 , 06, 130 


अनुसूची II 


वित्तीय वर्ष 1969 - 70 के अन्तर्गत 10 लाख पये से अधिक की प्राय पर निर्धारित 

समस्त फर्मों, व्यक्तियों के संगम और कम्पनियों के नाम 


कम 


निर्धारिती का नाम और पता 


संख्या 


प्रास्थिति निर्धारण वर्ष आयकर अधिनियम , 

1961 के अधीन 
निर्धारित आय 


- 


- - - - - -- - - -- -- -- - - - 


1965 - 66 


57, 69, 248 


1965 - 66 


67, 88, 447 


1 मैसर्स मैंगनीज अोर ( इन्डिया ) लि० 

माउंटरोड, नागपुर . . कम्पनी 
2 मैसर्स पी० पी० एम० ओ० प्रा० लि० , 

माउंटरोड , नागपुर . . कम्पनी 
3 मैसर्स खरे एंड तार कुंडे प्रा० लि० , 

किंग्सये, नागपुर . . कम्पनी 
4 मैसर्स गोंदिया इलेक्ट्रिक सप्लाई कं०, 

___ गोंदिया . . . कम्पनी । 


1965 - 66 


10, 11, 577 


1965 - 66 


13, 23, 485 


[ सं०फा०सं वसूली/ 19/ 70 - 71 ] 
थी० जे० कारनिक , प्रायकर आयुक्त , 

विदर्भ और मराठा वाग नागपुर । 


* *THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


4864 THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/ BHADRA 27 , 1893 [ PART II -- 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT 

New Delhi, the 24th August 1971 
S . O . 8496 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 72 of the Indian 
Patents and Designs Act, 1911 ( 2 of 1911) , the Central Government hereby appoints 
the Director , Central Fuel Institute, District Dhanbad , Bihar , as an authority for 
the purpose of the said section , and makes the following further amendment in the 
notifcation of the Government of India in the late Ministry , of Commerce and 
Industry No. S. R. O . 681, dated the 23rd March, 1955 , namely : 

In the said notification after item (41) and the entry relating thereto , the follow 
iing item and entry shall be inserted. namely : 
" ( 42 ) The Director, Central Fuel Research Institute, Fuel Research Institute , 
P . O Distt . Dhanbad, Bihar . " 

[ No. F . 33 (43)- SP & D / 69 . ] 
HARGUNDAS, Under Secy . 


औद्योगिक विकास मंत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली , 24 अगस्त 1971 


का० प्रा० 3496. - - भारतीय पेटन्ट और डिजाइन प्राधनियम , 1911 ( 1911 का 2 ) की 
धारा 72 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार, निदेशक , केन्द्रीय इंधन अनुसन्धान 
संस्थान, जिला धनबाद , बिहार, को उक्त धारा के प्रयोजन के लिए प्राधिकारी के रूप मे एतदद्वारा 
नियुक्ति करती है , और भारत सरकार भूतपूर्व उद्योग और वाणिज्य मंत्रालय की अधिसूच , का० नि० 
प्रा० 681, ता० 23 मार्च, 1955, में और आगे निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है , अर्थात : - - 

उक्त अनुसूची में , मद ( 41 ) और उससे सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टि के पश्चात निम्नलिखित मद और 
प्रविष्टि अन्तःस्थापित की जाएगी , अर्थात : - - 
"( 42 ) निदेशक, 

केन्द्रीय इंधन अनुसन्धान संस्थान , 
डाकघर : इंधन अनुसन्धान संस्थान , 
जिला धबाद, विहार । " 

[ सं० फा० 33 ( 43 ) - एस०पी० और डी0 / 6y ] 


ह गुन दास, अवर सचिव । 


New Delhi, the 31st August 1971 
S . O . 3492 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Small Scale Industries Organisation (Class III and Class IV posts ) 
Recruitment Rules, 1960, namely :-... 


1 . ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Small Scale Industries Organisation 
( Class III and Class IV posts ) Recruitment (Amendment) Rules , 1971 , 


(2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette. 


2 . In the Schedule to the Small Scale Industries Organisation (Class III and 
Clasg IV poşts ) Recruitment Rules , 1960 , in the entries against item 3 relating to 
the post of Lower Division Clerk ( in all States ) . 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971/ BHADRA 27, 1893 4865 


( 1 ) in column 7, for the existing entry, the following entry shall be substituted, 
namely :-- 

" ( i) Matriculation or equivalent qualifications; and 
( ii ) Minimum speed of 30 words per minute in type-writing: 
Provided that 
( a ) a person not possessing the said qualification in type-writing may be 

appointed subject to the condition that he shall not be eligible for 
drawing increments in the pay scale or for quasi-permanency or 
for confirmation in the grade till he acquires a speed of 30 words 

per minute in type -writing ; and 
(b ) a physically handicapped person who lg otherwise qualified to hold 

a clerical post but does not possess the said qualification in type 
writing may be appointed subject to the condition that the Medical 
Board attached to the Special Employment Exchange for handicapped 
or where there is no such Board , the Civil Surgeon , certifles that 
the said handicapped person is not in a fit condition to be able to 

type " . 
( 2 ) In column 10 , for the existing entry, the following entry shall be substi 
tuted , namely : 

" By direct recruitment. 
Note. — Ten per cent of the vacancies shall be reserved for being Alled by 
Class IV employees (borne on regular establishment of these offices ) subject to 
the following conditions, namely : 
( 1 ) Selection shall be made through a departmental competitive examination 

confined to such Class IV employees who fulfl the requirement of 
minimum educational qualiAcation , namely , Matriculation or 

equivalent there . 
( 2 ) The maximum age for appearing at thig examination shall be forty years 

( forty five years for the Scheduled Caste or the Scheduled Tribe 

employees ) . 
( 3) At- least five years of service in Class IV shall be egsential, 
(4 ) The maximum number of appointments by this method shall be Umited 

to ten per cent of the vacancies in the cadre of Lower Division Clerks 
occurring in a year ; 

unflled vacancies would not be carried over to the next year . 
(5 ) A probationary period of two years shall be prescribed , subject to 
extension of this period , if necessary ." 

[No. 4 ( 13) / 69 -SSI (C ). ] 


0 . R . PADMANABHAN , Under Secy . 


7 


far oft, 31 


TFA , 1971 


FTO TO 349 7.- - TTCTT, TTTTT 

309 TFATT TETT # 41 
FIT TOTT T T TT TTT TGA (af 3 af 4T ) ff faTA , 1960 , h art 
संशोधन करने के लिएनिम्नलिखित नियम एतद्वारा बनाते हैं , अर्थात् : -- 

1. ( 1) TFTH FTATH FT FTT 1157 (af 3 472 tf 4 qa ) * ff (TTTTTTA ) 

fruh , 1971 EITTI 
( 2 ) ये शासकीय राजपत्र में प्रकाशन की तारीख को प्रवृत्त होंगे । 


4866 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 1893 [ PART II 


2. लघु उद्योग गठन ( वर्ग 3 और वर्ग 4 मद ) भर्तीनियम , 1960, की अनुसूची में मद 3 के 
सामने को निम्न श्रेणी लिपिक ( सभी राज्यों में ) पद से सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टियों में --- 

( 1 ) स्तंभ 7 में , विद्यमान प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि प्रतिस्थापित 
की जाएगी अर्थात् - - 

(i ) मैट्रिकुलेशन या समतुल्य अर्हताएं , और 
( ii ) टंक लेखन में कम से कम 30 शब्द प्रति मिनट की गति : 


I 


परन्तु कि 

( क ) कोई व्यक्ति जिनके पास टंक लेखन में उक्त प्रर्हता नहीं है इस शर्त के अधीन 
नियुक्त किया जा सकेगा कि जब तक वह टंक लेखन में 30 शब्द प्रति मिनट 
की गति अजिस न करे सब तक वह वेतन मान में वेतन वृद्धि पाने या स्थायिवत्ता या 
उस श्रेणी में पुष्टीकरण का पात्र नहीं होगा, और 
( ख ) कोई शारीरिक असुविधाग्रस्त व्यक्ति , जो कि लिपिक पद धारण करने के 
लिए अन्यथा अहित है, किन्तु टंकलेखन में उक्त प्रर्हता उसके पास नहीं है, नियुक्त 
किया जा सकेगा इस शर्त के अधीन रहते हुए कि असुविधाग्रस्त के लिए विशेष 
नियोजनालय से संलग्न चिकित्सा बोर्ड या जहां ऐसा कोई बोर्ड नहीं है वहां सिविल 
सर्जन प्रमाणित करता है कि उक्त प्रसुविधाग्रस्त व्यक्ति टंकन करने के लिए योग्य 
स्थिति में नहीं है । 

0 में विद्यमान प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि प्रतिस्थापित 
की जाएगी, अर्थात् 
टिप्पण - - “ सोधे भर्तीद्वारा " -- रिक्तियों का 10 प्रतिशत वर्ग 4 के ( इन कार्यलयों क 

नियमित स्थापन द्वारा धारित ) कर्मचारियों द्वारा निम्नलिखित शर्ती 

के अधीन रहते हुए भर्ती करने के लिए प्रारक्षित रखा जाएगा, अर्थात् ---- 
( 1 ) कम से कम शैक्षिक अर्हता , अर्थात् , मैट्रिकुलेशन या उसका समतुल्य की 

आवश्यकता पूरी करने वाले ऐसे वर्ग 4 के कर्मचारियों से सीमित विभागीय 

प्रतियोगी परीक्षा के माध्यम से चयन किया जाएगा । 
( 2 ) इस परीक्षा में बैठने के लिए अधिकतम आयु 40 वर्ष की होगी । ( अनुसू 

चित जाति और अनुसूचित जन जाति के कर्मचारियों के लिए 45 वर्ष ) । 
( 3 ) वर्ग 4 में कम से कम 5 वर्ष की सेवा अत्यावश्यक होगी । 
( 4 ) इस पद्धति द्वारा की गई नियुक्तियों की अधिकतम संख्या निम्न श्रेणी लपिकों 

के कारमें एक वर्ष में होने वाली रिक्तियों के 10 प्रतिशत तक सीमित होंगी ; 

जो रिक्तियां भरी नहीं हैं उन्हें अगले वष के लिए अपनीत नहीं किया जाएगा । 
( 5 ) वो वष का परीयोक्षा काल विहित किया जाएगा इस शर्त पर कि , यदि आवश्यक 

हो , उस अवधि को बढ़ाया जाए । " 


[ सं० 4 ( 13 ) / 69 - एस एस प्राई ( सी ) ] 


प्रो० प्रार० पद्मनाभन, अवर सचिव । 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : SEP ] FMBER 18, 1971/ BHADRA 27 , 18934867 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

TRADE MARKS 

New Delhi , the 31st August 1971 
S . O . 3498.---In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Trade 
and Merchandise Marks Act , 1958 ( 43 of 1958 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment to the notification of the Government 
of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Industry No . S . O . 2601, dated the 
25th November , 1959 , namely : - -- 
In the said notification , for th• existing entry in the second column relating 

to the Office of the Trade Mark Registry at Calcutta , the following 

entry shall be substituted , namely : 
“The States of Assam. Bihar, Nagaland , Orissa, and West Bengal , the 

autononious State of Meghalaya, the Union territories of Andaman 
and Nicobar Islands, Manipur and Tripura and the tribal areas of 
the State of Assam specified in Part B of the table appended to 
paragraph 20 of the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution of India " . 

[ F . No . 30 ( 1) -IT /TM/ 89. ]. 
P. SITARAMAN. Dy . Secy . 


नई दिल्ली ; 31 अगस्त 1971 
का० प्रा० 2498 : - -व्यापार और वाणिज्य अधिनियम , 1958 ( 1958 का 43 ) की 
धारा 5 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्री र सरकार, भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व व्यापार 

और उद्योग मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 2601 , नारीख 25 नवम्बर , 1959 में एतद्द्वारा 
निम्नलिखित और पागे संशोधन करती है, अर्थात : 

उक्त अधिमुनमा में , कल हत्ता की व्यापार चिह्न रजिस्ट्री के कार्यालय से संबंधित दूसरे स्तम्भ 
की विद्यमान प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि प्रति स्थापित की जाएगी , अर्थात् : - - 

असम, बिहरा , नागालैंड, उड़ीसा और पश्चिमी बंगाल , राज्य मेघालय का स्वायत्त 
राम, अंडमान तथा निकोबार द्योप, मनिपुर और त्रिपुरा का संघ राज्यक्षेत्र और भारत के 
संविधान को छठी अनुसूची के पैरा 20 से संलग्न सारणो के भाग ख में विनिर्दिष्ट असम राज्य 
के जनजाति क्षेत्र । 

[ स० फा० 30 ( 1 ) माई ० टी / टी० एम/ 89 ] 

प० सीतारामन , उप सचिव । 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 13th September 1971 
S . O . 3499 IDRA |8 / 1171, - In cxcrcise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of 
the Industries ( Development and Regulation) Act , 1951 ( 65 of 1951) read with rules 
2 . 4 and 5 of the Development Councils ( Procedural ) Rules , 1952 , the Central 
Government hereby appoints , for a period of two years with effect from the date 
of this Order , the following persons to be members of the Development Council 
for the scheduled Industries engaged in the manufacture or production of Drugs 
and Pharmaceuticals, in place of members appointed under the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Industrial Development and Company Affairs (Depart 
ment of Industria ) Development) Order No. S . O . 2853 / IDRA / 6 / 8 / 68 , dated the 
17th August, 1968 , as amended from time to time, whose tenure of office has 
expired by efflux of time or otherwise : 

Development Council for Drug and Pharmaceuticals . 
___ 1. Shri A. V. Mody, Managing Director , M / s. Unichem Laboratories Ltd., 22 
Bhulaphai Desai Road , Bombay - 20 % Chairman 


4868 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 1893 (PART II — 


2. Dr. K . A . Hamied , Managing Director, M / s . CIPLA , 289, Bellasis Road , 
Bombay - l. 

3. Dr. D . V . K . Raju , Managing Director, M / s . Crookes Interfran Ltd ., 254- D , 
Dr. Annie Besant Road , World , Bombay - 12 . 

4 . Shri N . M , Shah, M / s . Atul Drlig llouse . D 85 , Annle Besant Road 
Worli , Bombay - 18 . 

5 . Dr. S. N . Sharma, Principal, Gauhati Medical College, Gauhati (Aggam ). 

6 . Dr. N . Rangaswami, Chiet Analyst, M / s. Glaxo Laboratories ( India ) Pvt. 
Ltd ., Dr . Annie Besant Road , Worli , Bombay- 18 . 

7. Dr. S . K . Mehta, Chlef Chemist . M / s. Boehringer Knoll Ltd ., United India 
Building, Pherozeshah Road , Bombay - 1. 

8. Shri M . K . Ranganekar , Commissioner , Food and Drugs Administration Grlha 
Nirman Bhavan , Kala Nagar, Bhandra , East Bombay - 5 . 

9 . Dr. A . J. Faridi, Faridi Buildings, Hazrat Ganj. Lucknow . 

10 . Bhai Mohan Singh , Chairman & Chief Executive, M / s . Ranbaxy Labora 
tories (Pvt. ) Ltd ., Okhla , New Delhi. 

11. Shri Rattanlal Gupta , 1424 , Chandni Chowk , Delhi. 

12 . Dr. B . N . Ghosh , Managing Director , M / s. Bengal Chemicals & Pharmaceuti 
cals Works Ltd ., 6 , Ganesh Chander Avenue, Calcutta - 19. 

13 . Shri B . N . Dey , Managing Director , Dey s Medical Stores, 6 , Lindsay Street, 
Calcutta . 

14 . Shri M . S . Shastri, Chief Executive , M / 8 . Synblotics Ltd ., Wadi Wadi, 
Baroda. 

15 . Shri C . S . Raju , M / s . South India Research Institute ( P ) Ltd ., Srinagar, 
Vijaywada ( Andhra Pradesh ) . 

16 . Dr. J . J. Neuruker , M / s. Suneeta Laboratorics, 89- B / 90 , Industrial Estate , 
Indore (M . P .). 

17. Prof. D . K . Banerjee , Professor of Organic Chemistry , Indian Institute of 
Science, Bangalore . 

18 . Dr. P . C . Bhatla , 12 - Sadar Thana Road, Delhi. 

19 . Dr. S . B . Rao, Managing Director, M / s . Navarathna Pharmaceuticals , Cochin 
(Kerala ). 

20 . Shri B . V . Raman , Managing Director . Hindustan Antibiotics Ltd ., Pimpri, 
Poona . 

21 . Shri Jagjit Singh , Chairman & Managing Director , M / s. Indian Drugs & 
Pharmaceuticals Ltd ., N - 12 , South Extension Pari ( I), New Delhi-3 . 

22. Shri M . L . Dhar, Director , Centre Drug Research Institute, Lucknow , 

23 . Dr. A . G . Sonar, Member Parliament, ( Lok Sabha ), 165 -North Avenue, 
New Delhi, 

24 . Shri Sushil Bhattacharjee , 780, Ballimoran , Delhl. 
25 . Shri P . S . Ramuchandran , Drugs Controller , Ministry of Health , New Delbi. 

26 . Dr. P . R . Gupta , Drug Adviser, Ministry of Petroleum & Chemicals & Mines 
& Metals . (Department of Petroleum & Chemicals) , New Delhi, 

27. Dr. B . Shah , Industrial Adviser, D . G . T .D ., New Delhi. 

28 . Representatives of the Director General, Armed Forces Medical Services, 
Ministry of Defence , New Delhi. 

29 . Shri K . Ventataraman , Dircteor , Ministry of Industrial Development, New 
Delhi. 


Member Secretary . 

30 . Shri D . G . Patwardhan , Development Oncer (Drugs & Pharm .), D .G . T .O ., 
New Delhi. 

2 . Shri D , G , Patwardhan , Development Officer , D .G . T . D ., New Delhi is hereby 
appointed to carry on the functions of the Secretary to the şald Development 
Counci). 


[No. 13 ( 7) / 70 -LC .] 
R . K . CĦADRA , Under Secy . 


SEC. 3 ( 1)] THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/ BHADRA 27 , 1893 4869 


प्रादेश 

नई दिल्ली, 13 सितम्बर, 1971 
का मा ०3 499/ प्राई ० डी० पार ० ए ०/6/ 11/ 71. - उद्योग (विकास तथा विनियमन ) 
अधिनियम , 1951 ( 1951 का 65 ) की धारा 6 के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
एवम विकास परिषदें (कार्या विधि ) नियम , 1952 के नियम, 2, 4 और 5 के साथ पढ़ते हुए , 
केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को इस प्रादेश की तिथि से दो वर्षों तक की 
अवधि के लिये भारत सरकार के भतपूर्व औद्योगिक विकास तथा समवाय - कार्य मंत्रालय ( मौषो . 
गिक विकास विभाग ) के प्रदेश सं ० का ० प्रा० 2853/ आई . डी मार ० ए ०/ 6/ 6/68, दिनांक 
17 अगस्त , 1958 जिसे समय - समय पर संशोधित किया गया के अधीन नियुक्त किये गये सदस्यों 
के स्थान पर, जिनका कार्यकाल , समय बीत जाने से अथवा समाप्त हो गया है, प्रौषध तथा भषण 
के निर्माण अथवा उत्पादन रत अनुसूचित उद्योगों की विकास परिषद् का सदस्य नियुक्त करती 


अध्यक्ष 


औषष तथा भेषज की विकास परिषद 
( 1 ) श्री ए . वी . मोदी, 

प्रबन्ध निदेशक , 
मे ० यूनिकेप लेबोरेटरीज लि ० , 
22 भूला भाई देसाई रोड , 

बम्बई - 26 
( 2 ) डा ० के ० ए ० हमीद , 

प्रबन्ध निदेशक , 
मे ० सी आई पी एल ए , 
289, बेल्लासीस रोड, 

बम्बई - 1 
( 3 ) डा ० डी० वी० के ० राजू , 

मैनेजिंग डाइरेक्टर , 
मे ० क्रुक्स इंटरफेन लि ०, 
245- जी , डा ० ऐनीबेसेंट रोड, 

वी , बम्बई -- 12, 28 डी डी । 
( 4 ) श्री एन ० एम ० शाह, 

मे ० अतुल ड्रग हाउस , 
85, डा० एनीबसेंट रोड , 
वी , बम्बई - 18, 
डा ० एस० एन० शर्मा, 
प्रिंसिपल , गौहाटी मेडिकल कालेज , 

गौहाटी ( आसाम ) । 
( 6 ) डा ० एन ० रंगास्वामी, 

घीफ ऐनेलिस्ट , 
मे ० ग्लेक्सो लेबोरेटरीज ( इंडिया ) प्रा . लि ०, 
डा० ऐनीबेसेंट रोड, वर्ली, बम्बई - 18 , 


4870 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/ BHADRA 27, 1893 [ PART II --- 


( 7 ) डा० एस० के मेहता , 

चीफ केमिस्ट , 
मे ० बोहिरगर, क्नोल लि , 
यूनाइटेड इण्डिया बिल्डिंग , 

फिरोजशाह रोड , बम्बई - 1 
( 8 ) श्री एम ० के ० रंगनकर , 

कमिश्नर फूड एण्ड ड्रग्स एडमिनिस्ट्रेशन , 
गृह निर्माण भवन , कालानगर, भाद्रा पूर्वी, 

बम्बई - 5 
( 9). डा ० ए ० जे० फरीदी, 

फरीदी बिल्डिंग , 

हजरत गंज, लखनऊ । 
( 10) भाई मोहन सिंह, 

चेअरमैन एण्ड चीफ एक्जीक्यूटिव , 
मे० रैन बैक्सी, लैबोरेटरीज ( प्रा०) लि० , 

अोखला , नई दिल्ली । 
( 11 ) श्री रतनपाल गुप्त , 

1425, चांदनी चौक दिल्ली । 
( 12 ) डा० बी० एन० घोष , 

मैनेजिंग डाइरेक्टर, 
मे० बंगला केमिफल्स एण्ड फक्यूिटिकल वर्क्स लि .,. 
6 - गणेश चादर एवेन्यू , 

कलकत्ता -- 13 
( 13) श्री बी० एन ० डे , 

मैनेजिंग डाइरेक्टर, 
डेज मेडिकल स्टोर्स , 

6-लिंडसे स्ट्रीट , कलकत्ता । 
( 14 ) श्री एन ० एस० शास्त्री , 

चीफ एक्जूक्यूटिव, 
मे० सिंबियाटिक्स लि ० , 

बाडी बाडी, बड़ौदा । 
( 15) श्री सी० एस ० राजू , 

मे० साउथ इण्डिया रिसर्च इंस्टीट्यूट (प्रा०) लिमिटड , 

श्रीनगर, विजय वाड़ा ( आन्ध्र प्रदेश ) । 
( 16 ) डा ० जे० जे० न्यूरकर , 

मे० सुनीता लेबोरेटरीज 
89 - बी / 90, इण्डस्ट्रियल इस्टेट , 
इंदौर, ( मध्य प्रदेश ) 


SEC . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / BHADRA 27, 1893 4871 


( 17 ) प्र० डी०३० बनर्जी, 

प्रो० प्रार्गनेंस केमिस्ट्री , 

इण्डियन इंस्टीट्यूट आफ साइन्स , बंगलौर , 
( 18 ) डा० पी० सी० भटला , 

12 - सदर थाना रोड , 

दिल्ली । 
11 ) ) डा ० एस० बी० राव , 

मैनेजिंग डाइरेक्टर , 
मे ० नवरतन फार्माक्यूटिकल्स , 

कोचीन, ( केरल ) । 
( 1) ) श्री बी० बी० रामन , 

मैनेजिंग डाइरेक्टर , 
हिन्दुस्तान ऐन्टीबायोटिक्स लि , 

पिम्परी, पूना । 
1 21 ) श्री जगजीत सिंह , 

चेयरमैन एण्ड मैनेजिंग डाइरेक्टर, 
मे ० इण्डियन ड्रग्स एण्ड फार्मास्यूटिकल्स लि ० , 
एन - 12, साउथ एक्सटेंशन पार्ट ( 1 ) , 

नई दिल्ली - 3 
( 22 ) श्री एम ० एल० घर , 

डाइरेक्टर, 

केन्द्रीय औषध अनुसंधान संस्थान , लखनऊ । 
( 23 ) डा ० ए० जी० सोनार , 

संसद सदस्य , लोकसभा 

165 - नार्थ एवेन्यू , नई दिल्ली - 1 
( 24 ) श्री सुशील भट्टाचार्य जी , 

780, बल्ली मारान, दिल्ली । 
( 25 ) श्री पी० एस० रामचन्द्रन , 

औषधि , नियतक , 

स्वास्थ्य मंत्रालय , नई दिली । 
( 26 ) डा ० पी० पार ० गुप्त , 

औषध , सलाहकार, 
पेट्रोलियम तथा रसायन, एवम् खान तथा धातु मंत्रालय , 

( पेट्रोलियम तथा रसायन विभाग ), नई दिल्ली । 
( 27 ) डा० बी० शाह , 

प्रौद्योगिक सलाहकार , 
तकनीकी विकास का महानिदेशालय , 
नई दिल्ली । 


4872 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 18 , 1971 / BHADRA 27, 1893 (PART II — 


डाइरेक्टर जनरल , 
आर्मफोर्सेज मेडीकल सर्विसेज , 
मिनिस्ट्री माफ डिफेन्स , 
नई दिल्ली । 

( एक प्रतिनिधि ) 
( 29 ) श्री के ० बैंकटारमन , 

निदेशक , 
औद्योगिक विकास तथा आंतरिक व्यापार मंत्रालय , 

( प्रौद्योगिक विकास विभाग ), नई दिल्ली । 
( 30 ) श्री डी . जी . पटवर्धन , 

विकास अधिकारी , ( औषध एवम् भेषज ) , 
तकनीकी विकास का महानिदेशालय , 

सदस्य - सचिव 
नई दिल्ली । 
( 31 ) श्री डी जी ० पटवर्धन , विकास अधिकारी तकनीकी विकास का महानिदेशालय , 

नई दिल्ली को उक्त विकास परिषद के सचिव के कार्यों को करने के लिये नियुक्त किया 
जाता है । 

[ सं० 13( 7)/ 70- एल ० सी०] 
राज कृष्ण चढ्ढा , अवर सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING 

( Department of Health ) 

New Delhi, the 7th August 1971 
S. 0 . 3500 .--- Whereas Dr. J . C . Parikh, B. D . S. ( Bom.) , M. S . ( USA ), Bungalow 
No . 4, Shrinivas Society . "Vatsalya ", near New Sharda Mandir Road , Ellisbrldge, 
Ahmedabad - 7 , has been elected with effect from the 1st October , 1970 , from among 
the dentists registered in Part A of the Gujarat register of dentists , as a member 
of the Dental Council of India clause ( a ) of section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 
( 18 of 1948) . 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of the powers conferred by section 3 of the gald 
Act, the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in 
the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health No. 
3 - 2 / 62 - MII , dated the 17th October , 1962, narmely : 

In the said notification , under the heading " Elected under clause ( a ) of section 
3 " , for the entry against Serial No. 13, the following entry shall be substituted. 
namely : 
" Dr . J . C . Parikh, B. D . S . ( Bom.) , M. S . ( USA ), Bungalow No. 4 , Shrinivas 

Society , " Vatsalya " , near Sharda Mandir Road , Ellisbridge , Ahmeda 
bad - 7 ." 

[ No. F . 3 -31 / 70 - M . P. T . ] 
रवास्थ्य और परिवार नियोजन मंत्रालय 


( स्वास्थ्य विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली , 7 अगस्त , 1971 
एस० ओ० 3500 -~ यतः दन्त चिकित्सक अधिनियम , 1948 (1948 का 16 ) की धार 3 
के खण्ड (क ) के अधीन डा० जे० सी० पारिख , बी०डी० एस० ( बम्बई ), एम० एस० ( संयुक्त राष्ट्र 


Sec . 3 (li )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/BHADRA 27, 1893 4873 


संष अमरीका ) , बंगलानं0 4, श्रं निवास सोसाइटी , “ वात्सल्य " नया शारवा मन्दिर के निकट इल्लि 
स्त्रिज, महमदाबाद -- 7, को गुजरात पंजीकृत दन्त चिकित्सकों के भाग क के अधीन पंजीकृत दन्त चिकि 
त्सकों में से 1 अक्तूबर 1970 से भारतीय दन्त चिकित्सक परिषद्का सदस्य निर्वाचित किया गया है । 

अतः, अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 3 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का अनुरण करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरक र 
तद्वारा भूतपूर्व स्वास्थ्य मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या 3 -- 2 / 62 चि० 2 दिनांक , 17 अक्तूबर , 
1962 में और आगे नि नलिखित संशोधन करती है नामतः 

उक्त अधिसूचना में , "धारा 3 के खण्ड ( क ) के अन्तर्गतनिर्वाचित शीर्षक " में प्रविष्टि संख्या 
13 के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि रखली जाय ; अर्थात् : - - 

" डा० जेसी० पारिख , बी० डी० एस० ( बम्बई ) , एम० एस० (सं० रा० अ० ) , बंगला 

नं० 4, श्री निवास सोसाइटी, “वात्सल्य ", शारदा मन्दिर रोड, डॉलिंग -ब्रिज, 
अहमदाबाद - 7 । " 

[सं० पक्ष 3- 31 / 70 एम० पी० टी० ] 


ORDER 

New Delhi , the 28th July 1971 
S.03501. ..- Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Health No . 16 - 5 / 82 -MI, dated the 23rd July , 1962 , the Central 
Government has directed that the Medical qualification , " M . D ." granted by the 
University of Georgetown , Washington , United States of America , shall be 
recognised medical qualification for the purposes of the Indian Medical Council 
Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1958) ; 

And whereas Dr. Katherine Florence Jobson who possesses the said quali 
fication is for the time being attached to the Holy Family Hospital, Mandar , 
Ranchi District for the purposes of charitable work ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of clause ( c ) of the proviso to sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 14 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby specifles; 

( i) a further period ending with the 29th February , 1972, or ; 
(ii ) the period during which Dr. Katherine Florence Jobson , is attached 

___ to the said Holy Family Hospital, Mandar , Ranchi District , 
whichever is shorter , as the period to which the medical practice by the aforesaid 
doctor shall be limited . 

INo . F . 19- 22 . 70 - MPT. ] 
प्रावेश 

नई दिल्ली , 16 अगस्त , 1971 
एस० ग्रो० 3501 : - यतः भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व स्वास्थ्य मंत्रालय की 23 जुलाई, 
1962 की अधिसूचना संख्या 16 - 5 62 एम० आई०, द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने निदेश दिया है कि 
भारतीय चिकित्सा परिषद अधिनियम 1956 ( 1956 का 102 ) के प्रयोजन के लिए जार्जटाउन , 
विश्वविद्यालय , वाशिंगटन , संयुक्त राज्य अमेरिका द्वारा प्रदत्स एम० डी० " नामक चिकित्सा अर्हता 
मान्य चिकित्सा अर्हता होगी ; 

- और यत : डा० कैथरीना फ्लोरेन्स जाबसन को जिसके पास उक्त प्रहता है , धर्माण कार्य के 
प्रयोजन के लिए फिलहाल होली फेमिली अस्पताल , मन्दर , रांची जिला के साथ सम्बद्ध है । 

अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 14 , की उपधारा ( 1 ) के परन्तुक के खण्ड ( ग ) का पालन 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा विदिष्ट करती है कि : 
(i ) 29 फरवरी , 1972 को समाप्त होने वाली प्रागे की अवधि । 

अथवा 
( ii ) डा० कैथरीना फलोरन्स जाब्सन के होली फैमिली अस्पताल, मन्दर , रांची जिला से 
सम्बद्ध रहने की अवधि जो भी कम हो ; उस अवधि के दौरान पूर्वोक्त डाक्टर मेडिकल प्रैक्टिस कर सकेंगे । 

[ सं० एफ० 19 - 22/ 70-एम० पी० टी०/ ] 


4874 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/ BHADRA 27, 1893 [ PART II -- 


8 . 0 . 3502 , — Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Health and Family Plaunin : No. 12 - 13 /66 -MPT, dated the 3rd June, 
1966, the Central Government has directed that the Medical qualification, Doctor 
of medicine granted by Women s Medical College, Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania , United States of America , shall be recognised medical qualification 
for the purposes of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1958 ) ; 

And whereas Dr. Sister Mary Liguori Cantlin who possesses the sald quallica 
tion is for the time being attached to the Mercy Hospital, Jamshedpur, for the 
purposes of charitable work ; 

Now , whereas in pursuance of clause ( c ) of the proviso to sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 14 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby specifles ; 
( i) a further period of two years ivith effect from the 8th December , 1970 , 

or 
( ii ) the period during which Dr. Sister Mary Liguori Cantlin is attached 

____ to the said Mercy Hospital , Jamshedpur; 
whichever is shorter , as the period to which the medical practice by the aforesaid 
doctor shall be limited. 

No. 1 . 19- 18/ 71 - MPT .] 

P . C . ARORA, Under Secy . 
एस० ओ० 35 02:- - यतः भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व स्वास्थ्य एवं परिवार नियोजन 
मंत्रालय की 3 जून, 1964 की अधिसूचना सं० 18 - 13/ 66- एम० पी०टी द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने 
निदेश दिया है कि भारतीय चिकित्सा परिषद अधिनियम 1956 ( 1956 का 102 ) के प्रयोजनों 
के लिए वुमेन्स मेडिकल आफ पेन्सीलवानिया फ्लिाडेल्फ्पिा संयुक्त राज्य अमेरिका द्वारा प्रदत " डाक्टर 
प्राफ मेडिसन " नामक चिकित्सा अहता मान्य चिकित्सा प्रहता होगी ; 

और यतः डा . सिस्टर मैरीलिगनोरी कान्टलिन को जिसके पास उक्त अर्हता है धर्माण कार्य 
के लिए फिलहाल मरसी अस्पताल , जमशेदपुर के साथ सम्बद्ध है ; 


प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 14 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के परन्तुक के भाग ( ग ) का पालन 
करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा विनिर्दिष्ट करती है कि 
(i ) 8 दिसम्बर , 1970 से दो वर्ष प्रागे की अवधि के लिए 

अथवा 
( ii ) उस अवधि को जब तक डा० सिस्टर मरी लिगनोर कान्टालिन , उक्त मरसी अस्पताल , 
जमशेदपुर के माथ सम्बद्ध रहते है जो भी कम हो उस अवधि के दौरान पूर्वोक्त डा० मेडिकल प्रेक्टिस 
कर सकें । 


[ फ० सं० 9-- 16/ 71 - एम० पी० टी०] 


प्रकाश चन्द्र अरोरा, अवर सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 29th June 1971 


S . O . 3603. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act , 1952 and sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub -rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958 , the Central Government hereby re 
appoints following persons as members of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 BHADRA 27, 1893 4875 


of Film Censors at Calcutta with effect from 1st July , 1971 to 30th September . 
1971 : 

1 . Shri Anant Mahapatra . 
2. Shri Saumyendra Nath Tagore . 
3 . Shri Kshitish Roy . 
4 . Smt. Usha Khan . 

[ No. 11 / 4 / 71 - F ( C ).] 

VIRENDRA D . VYAS. Director. 
सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 
नई दिल्ली , 29 जून , 1971 


एस० मो० 3503-..- चलचिन अधिनियम , 1962 की धारा 5 ( 1 ) और चलचित्र ( सें सेर ) 
नियमावली , 1958 के नियम के उप -नियम ( 2 ) के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उप -नियम । 
द्वारा प्रदत्त अधकारों का प्रयोग करत हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने एतदद्वारा निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को 
1 जुलाई, 1971 से 30 सितम्बर, 1971 तक , केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड के कलकत्ता सलाहकार पैगल 
का फिर से सवस्य नियुक्त किया है :---- 

1. श्री अनन्त महापात्र । 
2. श्री सौम्येन्द्र नाथ टैगोर । 
3. श्री खितिश राय । 
4. श्रीमती ऊषा खान । 

[ संख्या 11 / 4/ 71--एक ( सी )] 
वीरेन्द्र देव व्याम ििदक । 


New Delhi, the 12th August 1971 
8. 0 . 3604 - Shri Pratap Krishan, officiating Regional Officer , Central Board of 
Film Censors , Bombay was granted earned leave preparatory to retirement for 
64 days with effect from 24th May , 1971 to 26th July , 1971 . 

On the expiry of leave Shri Pratap Krishan retired from Government service 
w . e .t . 27th July , 1971 . 

___ [ No . 2 / 106 / 70- F ( C ). ] 
नई दिल्ली 12 अगस्त, 1971 
एस० प्रो0 3504----- श्री प्रताप कृष्ण , स्थानान प्रादेशिक अधिकारी , केन्द्रीय म मेरा , 
बोर्ड , बबई को 24 मई 1971 में 26 जुलाई, 1971 तक , 64 दिन का सेव निवत्ति पूर्व अजित 
अवकाश दान किया गया था । 

2. अवकाश की समाप्ति पर , श्री प्रताप कृष्ण 27 जुलाई , 1971 से सकारी मेवा में मेगा 
निवृत हो गए । 

[ सं० 2 1 0 6/ 70-- एफ ( मी ) ] 
New Delhi, the 21st August 1871 
8 . 0 , 3605 .-- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act , 1952, and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shrimati Sara Syed Usuf as member of the Advisory Panel of Central Board of 
- Film Censors at Madras with immediate effect and upto 30th September , 1971. 

[ No. 11 / 2 / 71 - F ( C ) . ] 
J , C . NAMPUI . Dy. Secy . 


4876 THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: SEPTEMBER 18, 1971 / BHADRA 27 , 1893 [ PART II 


नई दिल्ली, 21 अगस्त, 1971 
एस० पो० 3505 - चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 5 ( 1 ) और बलचित्र ( सेंसर ) 
नियमावली , 1958 के नियम 9 के उप-नियम 2 के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उप -नियम ( 3 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार ने श्रीमती सारा सं यद यूसुफ को तत्काल से 30 
सितम्बर, 1971 तक केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड के मद्रास सलाहकारपैनल का सेदस्य नियुक्त किया 


[ संख्या फा० 11/ 2/ 71- एफ० ( सी० ) ] 

जे० सी० नामपुई, उप सचिव । 


New Delhi , the 31st August 1971 
S . 0 . 3506 . - --In pursuance of the Resolution of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Information & Broadcasting No . 1 / 29 / 58 - FP dated the 5th February , 
1959 as amended from time to time, the Central Government hereby nominates 
Shri Hrishikesh Mukherjee as member of the Fum Advisory Board , Bombay , with 
effect from the date he assumes charge of the office , for a term of two years . 

[ No. 28 / 3 / 70 - FP. ] 
नई दिल्ली , 31 अगस्त , 1971 


एस० ओ० 3506 :- - भारत सरकार के सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय के समय - समय 
पर संमोधित संकल्प संख्या 1 / 29/ 58- एफ० पी० दिनांक 5 फरवरी, 1959 के अनुसरण 
में केन्द्रीय सरकार ने श्री ऋषिकेश मुफर्जी को दो वर्ष के लिए इस कार्यालय में कार्य भार संभालने की 
तारीख से , फिल्म सलाहकार बार्ड , बम्बई का सदस्य नियुक्त किया है । 

[ संख्या 28/ 3/ 71- अफ० पी० ] 
S . O . 3507.--- In pursuance o frule 4 (b ) of the Central Information Serivce Rules , 1959 , 
ti Central Government as a result of the review undertaken , hereby fixes the authorised perme 
tient strength of the following grades of the Central Information Service as on the rot of March , 
1970 . 


Grade 


Authorised Permanent 

Strength 


. 
. 


Class I : 

Selection Grade . 
Sonior Adminstrative Grade : 

( Senior Scale) . . 
iTunior Scale ) 

. 
Junior Administrative Grade : 

(Sonior Scalc ) 
(Junior Scale ) 
Grade I . 
Grade II 

Add leave reserve @ 1 % 

Add deputation reserve 
Class II . 
Grade III 
Grade IV : 
Add leaye reserve @ 10 % 

.. .. 

. 
Add deputation reserve @ 5 % 

__ Total strength : 


....... 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


108 


266 ) 


136 
326 


. 


. 


. 
. 


40 
20 


J 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


695 


2 . The total authorised permanent strength of the Central Information Service has been fixed . 
at 695 as on the Ist March, 1970 . 

[ No. F. 2/ 1/70- CIS ] 
$ . PADMANABHAN , Dy, Secy . 


SFc . 3( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 18, 1971/ BHADRA 27, 1893 4877 


एस० प्रा० 3507.---- केन्द्रीय सूचना सेवा नियमावली, 1959 के नियम 4 ( ) के 
अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार , किए गए पुन : लोकन के परिणामस्वरूप , 1 मार्च 1970 को केन्द्रीय 
सूचना सेवा के निम्नलिखित ग्रेडों की अधिकृत स्थायी संख्या एतदद्वारा नियत करती है :-- - 


ग्रेड 


अधिकृत स्थायी संख्य 


श्रेणी-एक : 

सेलेक्शन ग्रेड 
मीनियर प्रशासनिक प्रेठ : 

( सीनियर स्केल ) . 

( जूनियर स्केल ) . 
जूनियय प्रशासनिक ग्रेड : 

( सीनियर स्केल ) . 

( जूनियर स्केल ) . 
ग्रेड-एक 
ग्रेड- धो 

10 प्रतिशत के हिसाब से छुट्टी रिजर्व जोड़िये 
15 प्रतिशत के हिसाब से प्रतिनियुक्ति रिजर्व जोड़िये . 


62 ) 
187 108 
28J 


. 


श्रेणी - दो 
प्रेड - तीन 
ग्रेड - चार 


136 


. 


. 
10 प्रतिशत के हिसाब से छट्टी रिजर्व जोड़िये 
5 प्रतिशत के हिसाब से प्रतिनियुक्ति रिजर्व जोड़िये . 


266 ] 
____ 40 


326 


कुल संख्या 


695 


2. 1 मार्च, 1970 को केन्द्रीय सूचना सेवा की कुल अधिकृत स्थायी संख्या 895नियत 
की गई है । 

[सं० फा० 2/1/ 70-सी०आई०एस० ] 

एस० पमनाभन , उप सचिव । 


PRINTED BY THB OENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THR MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI , 1971 


