of Srtiita 


pirlTrS ^tiED No. P, 2tB 


Hhedfeurette 




PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 38 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 19. 1959/BHADRA28, 1881 


NOTICE 

The un lermcntioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary was/were published upto the 10th 
September, 1959 



Issue 

No. No. and date Issued by Subject 


in G.S.R. 1050, dated 9th Ministry of Food Direction that powers relating to the 
September, 1959. and Agriculture sale of sugar released to sugar 

factories in the State of Orissa, 
shall also be exercisable by the 
Government of Orissa. 

113 G.S.R. 1051, dated toth Ministry of Railways The Railway Protection Force Rules. 
September, 1959. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes! 


PART H— Section 3— Sub-section (1) 

General Statutory Rules (including orders, bye-laws etc. of a general 
character) issued by the Ministries of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central Authorities (other than 
the Administrations of Union Territories). 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 9th September 1959 

G.S.R. 1053 .— In pursuance of rule 11 of the Indian Administrative Service 
(Pay) Rules, 1994, the Central Government, after consultation with the Govern- 
ment of Jammu and Kashmir, hereby makes the following amendments in 
Schedule III appended to the said Rules. 

2. The amendments shall be deemed to have come into force on the 4th 
September, 1958. 

Amendments 

In the said Schedule, 

(1) under the heading “A — Posts carrying pay above the time-scale pay In 
the Indian Administrative Service under the State Governments”, after the entries 
relating to “Bombay”, the following shall be inserted, namely: — 

"Jammu and Kashmir: 

Chief Secretary to 
Government 2,500”; 

( I2 55 ) 


I2 5 6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 19, 1959/BHADRA 28, 1881-^ [p, 


(2) mider the heading “B — Posts carrying pay in the senior time-scale of the 
Indian Administrative Service under the Stale Governments including posts 
carrying special pays in addition to pay in the time-scale”, after the entries relat- 
ing to '‘Bombay”, the following shall be inserted, namely: — 

“Jammu and Kashmir: 

Financial Commissioner. 

Development Commissioner. 

Commissioner (s) . 

Secretaries to Government. 

Deputy Commissioner (s) 

[No. 1/103/59-AIS (II) - (A) -3 

G.S.R, 1054. — In pursuance of rule 11 of thei Indian Police Service (Pay) 
Rules, 1954, the Central Government, after consultation with the Govern- 
ment of Jammu and Kashmir, hereby makes the following amendments in 
Schedule III appended to the said Rules. 

2. The amendments shall be deemed to have come into force on the 4th 
September, 1958. 

Amendments 


In the said Schedule, 

(1) under the heading "A — Posts carrying pay above the time-scale pay of 
the Indian Police Service under the State Governments", after the entries relat- 
ing to ‘‘Bombay’’, the following shall be inserted, namely: — 

“Jammu and Kashmir: 

Inspector General 

of Police .. IB, 50— 100— 2,250 

Deputy Inspector (s) 

General of Police . . 1,450—50—1,650”; 

(2) under the heading “B — Posts carrying pay in the senior time-scale of the 
Indian Police Service under the State Governments including posts carrying 
special pays in addition to pay in the time-scale", after the entries relating to 
“Bombay'', the following shall be inserted, namely: — 

“Jammu and Kashmir; 

Superintendent fs) of Police." 

[No, 1/ 103/59-AIS (II ) - (B) .] 
S. NARAYANSWAMY, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi-11, the 12th September 1959 

G.S.R. 1055. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309 of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulat- 
ing recruitment to the ex-cadre posts in the office of the Union Public Service 
Commission, namely: — 

1. Short title and application. — (1) These rules may be called the Union 
Public Service Commission (Ex-cadre Posts) Recruitment Rules, 1959. 

(2) They shall apply in relation to the posts specified in column 1 of the 
Schedule to these rules. 

2. Method of recruitment, etc. — The method of recruitment to the posts afore- 
said and other matters relating thereto shall be as specified In the said Schedule. 

3. Disqualification. — No person who has more than one wife living or marry- 
ing a person having a wife living shall be eligible for appointment to any post 
referred to in rule 1; 

Provided that the Central Government may, in any exceptional case and for 
reasons to be recorded in writing, exempt any person from the operation of this, 
rule. 



recruitment RULES 


Tbe^Schebtl* 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION. 


Name of 
poil 

No. of dtasifica- 
posts tksn 

Scale of 
pay 

Whether 
selection 
post or 
DOH-5C- 7 

lection 

post 

.Age Limit for 
direct recruits 

Educational and 
other qualifications 
required for direct 

recruits 

Whether age 
and educa- 
tional qualifica- 
tions prescri- 
bed for the 
direct recruits 
will apply in 
the case of 
promotees 

Period 

of 

probation., 
if any 

Method of reett. 
whether by dir- 
ect reett. or by 
promotion or 
transfer & per- 
centage of the 
vacancies to be 
filled by various 
methods 

In case of reett by 
promotion f transfe r, 
grades from which 
promotion to be 
made 

Circumstances 
in which U.PS.C. 
u to be consulted 
in making reett. 

I 

2 3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

ri 

£2 


1. Superin- 
tendent 
(Hollerith) 
Union Pub- 
lic Servi- 
ce Com- 
mi»kra_ 


General Ra. 530- 
Civil Ser- 30 — 800. 
nee Class 
II Gazetted 
Non- Min- 
isterial. 


Selection Below 35 yean, 
post B claxabte for 
Government ser- 
vants and accor- 
ding to the st- 
anding instruc- 
tions of the Go- 
vernment. 


ESSENTIAL : — 

(1) A degree of a re- 
cognised Universi- 
ty. 


CfO Should hare 
about 7 years ex- 
perience of working 
jQ a ^Hollerith 
Organisation inclu- 
ding about 3 yean 
m a Supervisory 
capacity. 

Notb : — Qualifica- 
tions in the case 
of direct recruit* can 
be relaxed by the 
Union Public Ser- 
vice Commistfon 
in case* where can- 
didate* are other- 
wise well quali- 
fied. 


AGE : — Two years By promotion PROMOTION : — 
ReUxablc fading which by From among the As- 

transfer, fail- sis taut Superin term- 

ing which by di- dents (Hollerith) in 
rect recruitment, the office of the 
Union Public Ser- 
vice Commission. 


QtroEficorwnr: - 
3 years exper- 
ience in Super- 
visory capa- 
city relsxable.j 


TRANSFER 
From other Central 
Government Orga- 
nisations of persons 
holding posts ana- 
logous to that of 
Assistant Superin- 
tendent (Hollerith) 


(Valid With etfect from 1-10-1958). 


As required 
under rules. 


2 . Asstfbutt 2 

Superinten- 
dent (Ho- 
llerith) 

Union Pab- 
Sc Serv- 
ice Com- 

-nlssM>o. 


General Ci- fts, 275 — Selection Below 30 years ESSENTIA!, : — 
vil Service 25 — 500 post r e la Ta ble for (1) A degree, of a re- 

Class II Government ser- cognised Univrrsi- 

Gazetted vants and acc- ty. 

Non-Mini- ceding to the 

sterial, standing mstruc- («) Should have ab- 

tkms of the out 5 years experie- 
Govcmment. nee of working in a 

Hollerith organi- 
aarinn including 
■bout 1 year in a 
Supervisory capa- 
city. 


Age 

ReLaxable. Two years 

Qualifier turns : — 

Length of ex- 
perience may 
be relaxed in 
case the post is 
filled by pro- 
motion. 


By promotion 
failing which 
transfer failing 
winch by direct 
recruitment. 


PROMOTION 
Permanent and qua- 
si-permanent Tech- 
nical Assistants or 
temporary Techni- 
cal Assistants 

with adeast 3 years 
se r v ice in the Grade 
in the Hollerith Br- 
anch of the Union 
Public Service Com- 
mission. 


A* required 

under rules 



3 


4 


5 


6 


3* Technical 
Auiitact 
(Hollerith) 
Union Pu- 
blic Ser- 
vice Cam- 
minion, 


4- Mechani- 
cal Opera- 
tor CHolle- 
rith) 

Union Pu- 
Wic|p Ser- 
vice Com- 
ntistion. 


12 


Nott : Qualifica- 

tions in the case of 
direct recruits can 
be relaxed by the 
Union Public Ser- 
vice Commission 
in cases where can- 
didates are other- 
wise well qualified, 


’ TRANSFER : 

From other Central 
Government Orga- 
nisations of persons 
holding posts ana- 
logous to that of 
Technical Assistants 
in a permanent or 
quasi-permanent ca- 
pacity 

(Valid with effect from 1-10-195$). 


I 


19 


19 


General Ci- 
vil Service 

cum in 

Non- Ga- 
zetted Noo- 
Mimsterial. 


Rs. 160 — 
10 — 330 


Selection 


Below aB year* 
reUxable for 
Government se- 
vanta according 
to the standing 
instruction* of 
the Government 


ESSENTIAL; — 
(1) Degree of recog- 
nised Univer s ity, 
(ii) Knowledge of 
sorter* and tabu- 
lators preferably 
Alpha Tabulators. 


Note: Qualifications 
in the case of direct 
recruit b c*n be re- 
laxed by the appoint 
ing authority in 
case* their candidates 
are otherwise well 
qualified. 


General Ci- Ps. 60-3- Not app- 
vil Service 81-EB-4 Ucable. 
Class ni -130, 

Non-Ga- 
ze t ted Non- 
Ministeria 1 s 


DESIRABLE:— 


Below 25 year* 

re taxable for 

Government 
servant* and 
according to the 
standing ins- 
tructions of the 
Government. 


Knowledge of Type- 
writing 

ESSENTIAL ■— 

(i) Matriculate of 
a recognised Uni- 
versity or e quiva- 
lent- * 

Cii) .Must know the 
use of Punching 
Machines and veri- 
fiers. 


Relaxable in 
case of per- 
manent and 
quasi-perma- 
nent Mecha- 
nical Opera- 
tors. 


Two years 


By direct rec- 
ruitment fail- 
ing which by 
promotion — 2/3 
By Promotion 
— 1/3- 


PROMOTION — 
Permanent & quasi- 
permanent Mecha- 
nical Operators 
and such temporary 
Mechanical Opera- 
tors as are graduates 
and hav e put in 3 
rears of service in 
the grade. If none 
of the eligible Me- 
chanical Operators 
is considered fit for 
promotion the va- 
cancies wdi be filled 
by direct recruit- 
ment. 


(Valid with effect from S-7-1959’1 

Not applicable Two By direct recruit- Not applicable’ 

year*. ment. 


Note: Qualifications 
can be relaxed by the 
appointing autho- 
rity in cases where 
candidates are 

otherwise well 

qualified. 


DESIRABLE 
Speed of 30 words 
per minu te TypC~ 
wrjtjn^ 


(YlJid with effect from I5-7-I957J 


Not 

applicable 



T 258 the ga OF A: .19, / j A 28, 



5- f uni or ite- 
search, Offi- 
cer, 


6, Librarian 


i Central Ci- 
vil Service 
rfbtt II 
Gazetted Noo- 
MiDisterial. 


Ra. 356- Hot ap- 
2|-etc. pbcabie. 


iielow 3 5 years 
Relax able for 
Government 
servant* and 
according to 
the stand mg 

tasfrtunoDs of 
the Govern- 
ment. 


T. At least 2rid Class 
Master’s or equiva- 
lent Hons- .Degree 

of a recognised in 
Statistics or Mathe- 
matics with, Statis- 
tics as a subject. 

OR 


Ndt applica- 
ble. 


Two 

years. 


Direct 


l/J A Master's Or 
equivalent Hons. 
Degree of a 
recognised Uni- 
versity. 


'i ‘0 A degree or 
Diploma in 
Statistics of a 
recognised Uni- 
versity Institu- 
te. 

2. About 2 years 1 
experience in col- 
lection, analysis 
and interpreta- 
tion of Statis- 
tics. 


Not applicable 


^Qualifications re- 
liable at Com- 
mission's discre- 
tion in case of 
candidates other- 
wise .kjw ell- quali- 
fied. . '.Valid with efl'ect from 7-12-1957) 


r General Ci- Rs. 160- Do. 
vil Service 10-350. 

Class IU 
Non- Minis- 
terial Non- 
Gazette d, 


Below 30 years. 
Relaxable for 
Government 
servants and 
according to 
the standing 
instructions of 
the Govern- 
ment. 


ESSENTIAL QUALIFICATIONS:— 

r. A degree of a. Does not arise. Two 
recognised Uni- years, 

verstiy. 

2. A degree /diploma 
in Library Scien- 
ce. 


3, About 2 years' 
experience in 

Librananship If 

Educational qualifi- 
cations and age 
limits are relaxable 
at the discretion of 
the appointing 
authority. 


By selection 
from among 
the holders or: 

\{) The posts 
of grade II 
Librarian in 
the scale of 
Rs. 160-ro- 
350 * 

•'if) The poses 
of grade III 
Librarian in 
the scale of 
Rs. 300-8- 
140-10-250. 


Not applicable. 


For direct 
recruitment. 


Not applicable. 


Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 19, 1959/BHADRA 28, 1881 1259 



2 3 4 5 6 7 $ 9 io II 12 j 

— — ] 

In Miontrieg/' 

Departments of 
the Government 
of India, failing 
this by direct 
recruitment, j 

(Valid with effect from 26 - 7 - 1958 )! 


MSgr 

Union Pub- 
lic Sendee 
CnrrrraiwW 


Genet*! Rb. 160-10- Mot ipp- 

CivU Ser- 330 . lictbfc. 

vice CIam 

Til Noa- 

Gaaetted 

Non-Mink* 

terul. 


30 year*. Relax- 
able for Govern- 
ment servants 
and according to ' 
the standing ins- 
truction! of the 
Government 


ESSENTIAL 
x. Mstricuktoc cf 
a recognised Univer- 
sity or equivalent* 

2 * Good pe nonaKty. 
3 . Ability to convene 
fluently in English 
and Hindi. 


Not applicable Two 
year*, 


N OTB . — Qualifica- 
tions can be relaxed 
by the appointing 
authority in cases 
where candidate* ere 
otherwise well qua- 
lified. 


By direct recruit- Not tppUcabU, 
ment from Junior 
Reception Offi- 
cer* under the 
Ministry of 
Home Affair* 
and Upper 
Division Clerks 
in the Govern- 
ment of India 
Secretariat and 
office* under 
them. 


Nct ippHcaWe, 


DESIRABLE 1 


1. Degree of recog- - 
nised University or 
equivalent. 


2. Experience of 
working as Receptio- 
ns t.’ 5 , (Valid with effect from 1 0-6-1 9 57) 


f. Telephone 
Opentnr. 


2 


Glass Iin Rs. 60-3- Not app- Below 25 years.’ 1 EDUCATIONAL 
Non-Gazet- 81-EB-4- li cable. ReUxable for QUALIFICATIONS : — 

ted Non- 125-5-130. Government ser- 

MinisteriaL rants and accor- 1 . Matriculation or Not applicable Two 

ding to the stan- its equivalent exami- years, 

drng instructions nation of a recognised 
of the Govern- University. r 


2- About 2 years ex- 
perienced in Tele- 
phone Operatkm. 


Direct recruit- Not applicable 
ment 


Not applicable. 


T260 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 19, 1959/BHADRA. 28, 1881 [Part TS 



Must be tole to 
speak well in Eoglijh 
ind Hindi, 

Age limit is rclajcabie 
it the discretion of 
the appointing iu- 
thority. 


(Valid with effect from 3-7-1955) 


(No- F. 30/17/59 — 'Ests (B)] 

K. THYAGARAJAN, Under Sccy. 


1 

!l 


Sic, 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 19, 1939/ ADRA 28 



*262 THE GA/ETIE OF INDIA: .SEP TEMBER 19, 1939/BHADRA 28, 1881 [Part H 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi , the 8th September 1959 

G.S.R. 1056. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309, 
and, in relation to persons serving m the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
also by clause (5) of article 148, of the Constitution, the President, after consulta- 
tion with the Comptroller and Auditor General as regards the persons referred 
to above, hereby makes the following further amendments in the Fundamental 
Rules, namely: — 

In rule 69 of the said rules,, — 

(1) after the words “accept any cmploymcnl” the words and brackets 

“(including the setting up of a private professional practice as 
accountant, consultant, or legal or medical practitioner )” shall be 
inserted; and 

(2) the existing Note shall be renumbered as Note 1 and after Note 1 as 

so renumbered, the following Note shall be added, namely; — 

“Note 2. — This rule does not apply where a Government servant has been 
allowed to take up a limited amount of private practice and receives 
fees therefore as pari of his conditions of service e.g. where a right 
of private practice has been granted to a medical officer. 

[No. F,7(35)-Est.IV/58,] 


New Delhi, the 10th September 1959 

G.S.R. 1057. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause (5) of article 148 of the constitution, and after consultation with the 
Comptroller and Auditor General in relation to persons serving in the Indian 
Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby makes the following further 
amendments in the Passage Rules, 1925, namely: — 

In clause (a) and (b) of rule 3.1 of the 'aid rules, after the words “period of 
deputation”, the brackets and words "( excluding the period covered by the actual 
journey to and from the country to which he is deputed)" shall be inserted. 

[No, F.4(5)-EIV/59.] 

G.S.R. 1058. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause (5) of article 148 of the Constitution, the President, after consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India m relation to persons serving 
in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, hereby directs that the following 
further amendment shall be made in the Fundamental Rules, namely:— 

For sub-rule (2) of rule 53 of the said Rules, the following sub-rule shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“(2) No payment under sub-rule (1) shall be made unless the Government 
servant furnishes a certificate that he is not engaged in any other 
employment, business, profession or vocation.” 

[No. 19(4)-E.IV/55.] 
R. S. BERY, Dy, Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1959 

G.SJl. 1059. In exercise of the. powers conferred b^ clause (b) of sub-section 

(1) of section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the 
Central Government, after consultation with the Governing Body of the Delhi 
nnuk. Exchange Association Ltd.. New Delhi, hereby directs that the following 
-its shall be made in the conditions stated In the notification of the 



fl*c. S(i)] THE GAZEnE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 19, I959/BHADRA 28, 1881 1263 

Government of India in the Ministry of Finance No. S R.O 390 Q. dated the 9th 
December, 1957, published in the Gazette ol India Extrairdmaiy, Part II — Section 
"3, dated the 9th December, 1957, namely: — 

In the said conditions, for conditions Nos (1) and (3), the following conditions 
thall respectively be substituted, namely — 

“(11 The Constitution of the Company shall provide that 

the membership of the Stock Exchange shall be open only to individuals 
who shall hold two shares of the Company and are eligible to become 
and continue to be members of a recognised stock exchange under 
the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957: 

D rovided that a shareholder who held only one share immediately before 9th 
December, 1957. and who has paid a cash - deposit of Rs 3,500/- 
(Rupees three thousand and five hundred) on or before the 31st August 
1959, shall be provisionally admitted to membership till such time as he 
acquires a second share whereupon the deposit amount shall be 
returned and the admission to membership shall become final: 

Provided further that firms who were admitted as shareholders on or before 
the 9th December, 1957, shall be permitted to continue as members 
for a period of five years from the said date or so long as their present 
partnership remains, whichever is earlier, subject to the condition that 
each partner of such a firm holds two -shares either individually or 
in the joint names of the partners ot the firm concerned or nas paid 
a deposit of Rs. 3,500 (Rupees three, thousand and five hundred) on 
or before the 31st August. 1959. for each share required to comply 
with this condition till such time as he acquires the requisite number 
of shares 

(3) Bargains for the clearing are permitted, subject to the strict, adherence of 
She Byfe-Jaws relating thereto, particularly in regard tu- 
fa) maintenance of a Clearing House, and 

(b) bargains for the clearing being restricted only to “cleared securities” 
-and the Stock Exchange undertaking to prohibit all bargains except for spot 
delivery in any non-listed securities If bargains in such non-listed securities are 
misused for speculation ” 

[No, 3/3/SE/EAD/58] 
P. S. NADKAR.N1. Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Gift Tax 

New Delhi, the 11 th September 1959 

G.S.R. 1060. — In pursuance of clause (xv) of sub-section (1) of section 5 of the 
Gift-tax Act. 1958 (18 of 1958), the Central Government hereby directs that the gift 
tax shall not be charged under the said Act in respect of gifts made by any person 
to any person in charge o£ any Bhoodan Movement recognised by the following 
■enactments, or the rules, regulations or orders made thereunder, namely:— 

1 The Ajmer Bhoodan Yagna Act, 1955 (Act No. VI of 1955), 

2, The Madras Board of Revenue Regulation, 1803 (Madras Regulation 1 of 
1803). 


[No, 2-GT/F, No. 3/5/58G.T], 
D, SUBRAMANIAN, Dy. Secy. 

(Department of Revenue) 

Customs and Central Excise 
New Delhi, the 19th September 1959 

G.S.R, 1661.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-aectioh (3) of 
-section 43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878) and section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), as in force in India and as applied to the 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 19, 1959/BHADRA 28, 1881 [Pakt It 


State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following 
amendment in the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export Drawback (Gene- 
ral) Rules, 1959, the same having been previously published as required under 
the said sub-section (3) of section 43B, namely, 

Amendment 


In the said Rules, — i 

For the entries shown against serial No. 9 and 10 to the First Schedule, the 
following entries shall be substituted, namely: — 

"9. Dichromates — 

(1) Sodium Dichromate dihydrate. — Sixty six rupees per ton, 

(2) Potassium dichromate.— One hundred and forty rupees per ton. 

10. Chromic acid. — Ninety eight rupees per ton”. 

[No. 61/F. No. 34/96/58-Cus. IV,} 
M. A. RANGASWAMY, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue 1 

Central Excises 

New Delhi, the 19th September 1959 

G.S.R. 1062. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 191-B of the Cen- 
tral Excise Rules, 1944, as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondi- 
cherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment to the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department 
of Revenue) No. 53/59-Central Excises, dated the 9th May, 1959, namely: — 

In the said notification, in condition 10, for the words "place of their produc- 
tion or manufacture”, the words "place of their production or manufacture or 
storage’’ shall be substituted. 

[No. 78/59,] 

L. S. MARTHANDAM, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 9th September 1959 

G.S.R. 1069. — In exercise of the. powers conferred by sub-section ( 1 ) of section 
50 of the Tea Act, 1953 (29 of 1953), the Tea Board hereby makes the following 
further amendment in the Tea Board Bye-laws, 1955, the same having been 
confirmed by the Central Government as required by sub-section (2) of the said 
section, namely: — i 

In clause (4) of by-law 14, the second proviso shall be omitted. 

[No. 8(14)PLANT(A)/68.] 
P. V. RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. 


(Department of Company Law Administration) 

New Delhi, the lllh September 1959 

DISPOSAL OF RECORDS (IN THE OFFICES OF THE REGISTRARS OF 
COMPANIES) RULES, 1957 

G.S.R. 1064.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Destruction 
trl Records Act, 1917 (5 of 1917), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the Disposal of Records (In the Offices of the Registrars 


Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1959/BHADRA 38, 1881 1265 ; 


(if Companies) Rules, 1957. published In the Ministry of Finance, Department of 
Company Law Administration, Notification No. S.R.O. 2809, dated the 20th August, 
1957, namely; — 

For sub-rule (5) of rule 4 of the said rules, the following sub-rule shall be 
aubstituted, namely: — 

“(5) Registered, documents of foreign companies which cease to have any place 
of business in India to be preserved for five years after such cessation: — 


Registered documents of foreign companies which cease to have any place of 
business in India shall be destroyed after the expiry of five years from the date 
such company ceases to have any place of business in India, in accordance with 
the following procedure: — 


The Registrar of Companies, Delhi, shall intimate to the Registrar con- 
cerned his intention to destroy the documents and other records of 
a particular company by a certain date, two weeks in advance 
thereof and the Registrar concerned shall on receipt of such .inti- 
mation, destroy the said documents at the same time and commu- 
nicate to the Registrar of Companies, Delhi, the fact of such 
destruction.” 


[No. F.2/30/69-PR6.] 
T. S. MENON, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 
(Departments of Communications and Civil Aviation) 

(Posts and Telegraphs) 

New Delhi , the 9th September 1959 

G.S.R. 1065. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Indian: 
Telegraph Act, 1885 (13 of 1885), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment to the Indian Telegraph Rules, namely: — 

In the said rules, — 

In rule 41, for the words “abbreviated name" the words “arbitrary or abbre- 
viated name” shall be substituted. 

[No. 14-6/59/T-2.] 

(Departments of Communications and Civil Aviation) 

New Delhi, the 9th September 1959 

G.S.R. 1066. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309' 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating 
the recruitment of persons to non-gazetted posts in the Posts and Telegraphs 
Directorate, namely: 

(1) Short title. — These rules may bo called the Posts and Telegraphs Directo- 
rate (Recruitment of Mechanics) Rules, 1959. 

(2) Application, — These rules shall apply to the posts specified in column 1 of 
the Schedule to these rules. 

(3) Classification and scale of pay. — The classification of the said posts and 
the scale of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in columns Z and 3 0 / th* 
said schedule. 




.1266 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 19, 1959/BHADRA 28, 1881 [Pari' II 


(4) Method of recruitment etc. — The method of recruitment to the said posts, 
The age limit and other qualifications and other matters connected therewith 
Tshall be as specified in columns 4 to 8 of the schedule aforesaid; Provided that: 

(a) The maximum age limit specified in column 5 of the Schedule in respect 
of direct recruitment may be relaxed in the case of candidates 
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other 
special categories in accordance with the orders issued by the Central 
Government from time to time, and 

.(bl No male candidate who has more than one wife living and no female 
candidate who has married a person having already a wife living, 
shall be eligible for appointment, unless the Central Government, 
after having been satisfied that there arc special grounds for doing 
»o, exempts any such candidate from the operation of this condition. 



Schedule 


I, s 


I 

2 

3 

4 


1 

Name of post 

Classification (whether 

gazetted or non-gazetted, 
whether mints tenal or non- 
m.imstenal't 

Scale of pas 

Method of recruitment, whether by direct recruitment 
motion or transfer and percentage of the vacancies Lo 
various methods 

or by pro- 
be filled bv 




Direct recruitment 

Promotion 

Transfer i 





By Seniority 

selection -cum-fit- 
ness 

1 tulio L v t 

J 

L Sensor Mechanics Research 
& Development ] 

Class III, Non-gazetted and 
Non-mmistenaL 

Rs 100-5-12S-6-IS5 
EB — 6-i8s 

ioo° 0 Note — Departmental 
candidates, who are qual fied 
can also be considered along 
with outsiders 


1 

1 

2. Junior Mechanics (Research 
& Development) 

Class III, Non-gazetted and 
N on-mtmstenal 

Rs “5-5-150. 

loo° 0 Note — Departmental 
candidates, who are qualified 
can also be considered along 
with outsiders 


l' 

1 

1 


G/\/ - OF A nv . 19, / AJ)RA - t 1267 



5 


6 


7 


8 


Age limit for direct recruits 


senior Mechanics 

Not less than 20 and not more than 25 
vears on the 1st January of the year of 
recruitment. 


J timer Machanics. 

Not less than 20 and not more than 25 
years on 1st January of the year of 
recruitment. 


Educational and other qualifications required (for Period of pro- For promotion /transfer only 

direct recruits} bation, if any 

Whether age and Grades from which 
educational qualifi- promotions /transfers 
cations prescribed for are to be made 
direct recruitment 
will apply in the case 
of appointment by 
promotion' trans fe r 


A certificate of competency or dipksma from Two years. Not applicable, 

a recognised Institution for Radio Servicing, 

Wiremen Mechanics, Electricians or Fitter 
Mechanics with at least five years’ practical 
experience in any of the following trades : — 

(t) Radio wiring and Servicing including fault 
shooting and capability to read electronic 
circuit diagrams; 

(ft) Machine Shop practice in a large workshop 
equipped, with lathes, drilling and shaping 
machines; 

(m) fi ttin g experience in sheet metal working, 
chipping, planing and filing with hand tools, 
use of taps and dies ; and 

(to) electrical equipment servicing like re-wind- 
ing of motor armatures, transformers etc. 

OR 

Ten years skilled working experience in any of 
the above trades. 


A certificate of competency or diplopia from a re- Two years, 
cognised Institution for Radio Servicing, Wire- 
man Machanics, Electricians or Fitter Mecha- 


Not applicable. 



■fdcs ■With at least two yean practical experience 

in any of following trades : — 

(i) Radio wiring and servicing including fault 
shooting and capability to read electronic 
circuit diagrams; 

(a) Machine shop practice in a large workshop 
equipped with lathes, drilling and shaping 
machines; 

(tit) Fitting experience in sheet metal working, 
chipping, planing and filing with hand 
tools, use of taps and dies; and 

(iv) Electrical equipment servicing like re- 
winding of motor armatures, transformers 
etc., 

OR 

Five years skilled working experience in any of the 
above trades. 


[No. 16-8/59/Admn.] 



T270 T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 19, 1959/BHADRA 28, 1881 [Part IT 


New Delhi, the 19 th September 1959 

G.S.R. 1067. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso t.o Article 309* 
of the Constitution), the President hereby makes the following; rules relating 1 
to Non-departmental Telegraphists and Telephone Operators and Short Duty 
Telephone Operators, Sorters in R.M.S. and Clerks in Post Offices, in the Posts- 
end Telegraphs Department, namely:--' 

RULES 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Posts and Telegraphs (Non- 
Departmental Telegraphists, Non-Departmental Telephone Operators, Short Duty 
Telephone Operators, Short Duty Sorters in R.M.S. and Short Duty Clerks in- 
Post Offices) Rules, 1950. 

2. Appointing Authorities. — The appointing authorities in respect of 
Non-Departmental Telegraphists, Non-Department al Telephone Operators, Short 
Duty Telephone Operators, Short Duty Sorters in R.M.S. and Short Duty Clerks 
in Post Offices (hereinafter referred to as employees) shall be as shown in the 
annexed schedule. 

3. Pension — The employees shall not be entitled to any pension in respect of 
the service rendered by them as Non-Departmental Telegraphists or Non-Depart- 
mental Telephone Operators or Short Duty Telephone Operators, Shor Duty- 
Sorters in R.M.S. and Short Duty Clerks in Post Offices. 

4. Leave, — The employees shall be entitled to such leave as may be determined 
ftom time to time. 

5. Termination of Service. — The services of the employees shall be liable to- 
termination by the appointing authority at any time without notice and without 
assigning any reason, 

SCHEDULE OF APPOINTING AUTHORITIES 


Category of posts 

1. Non-Departmental Telegraphists. 

2. Non-Dcpartmcntal and Short Duty 7 

Telephone Operators. 

3. Short Duty Sorters in R.M.S. 

4. Short Duty Clerks in Post Offices. 


Appointing Authority 

Director of Telegraphs 'Director of 
Posts & Telegraphs. 

Divisional Engineer. 


Senior Superintendent or Superinten- 
dent of R.M.S. 

Senior Superintendent or Superinten- 
dent of Post Offices, Deputy Presi- 
dency Postmaster, Gazetted Post- 
master and Sub-Postmasters not 
under the control of a Senior Super- 
intendent. 


[No. 44/6/56-SEA.J 
B. G. DESHMUKH, Under Secy.. 

(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

POBTS 

New Delhi , the 10th September 1969 

G.S.R, 1068. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ( 1 ) of section 
6 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15 of 1908), the Central Government hereby 

makes the following further amendments in the Port Rules for the Port, of 
Vizagapatam, the same having been previously published as required by sub- 
section (2) of the said section namely:— 

Amendments in the said Rules 

1, the existing note below rule 2 shall be omitted; 

2 after rule 2, the following rule shall be inserted, namely:— 

‘'2A, (1) Subject to the provisions of the Indian Ports Aqt, 1908, and the 
instructions below, pilotage is compulsory except for those vessels 



GA I . or , A : w M l 19, 1959/BHADRA 28, 1881 iTjl 


specifically exempted In writing by the Conservator or some officer 
empowered "by him to give such authority. 

(2) The pilot shall board incoming ships and disembark from out-going 

ships about 4 cables length East of the Outer Channel Light Buoys 
in a position 17 "-41'-17" N, 83° -18-30'' E and assist In piloting a vessel 
to and from her assigned berth and also in berthing and unberthing 
the vessels, 

(3) The master shall supply to the pilot all information with regard to 

quarantine, dangerous goods on board, ship’s draft and matters 
relating to the ships behaviour, etc., and shall, on completion of 
pilotage and berthing or unberthing, complete and sign the certificates 
on specified forms presented by the pilot. 

(4) In the event of an outward bound vessel over-carrying a pilot outside 

the limits of the Port, the master shall be bound to land the pilot 
at the nearest port and shall be liable to pay all expenses incurred 
on this account. 

(5) Pilots shall be supplied with breakfast between 7 and 9 a.m., lunch 

between noon and 2 p.m, and dinner between 0 and 8 p.m. Indian 
Standard Time, failing which the master shall pay compensation for 
food, namely, Rs. 3/- for any of the meals missed by a pilot. 

(6) The master of a vessel shall In accordance with the provision of the 

Indian Ports Act, 1908, display such signal or signals as may be 
required by the pilot to be used or as may be directed by the pilot. 

<7) The master of the vessel shall be responsible to take on board such 
equipment as the pilot may carry with him in the interest of pilotage 
of ships namely, R/T equipment, Binoculars, Pilot’s Kit, etc. 

(8) Every ship entering or leaving the harbour shall be provided with the 
following: — 

(a) an efficient pilot ladder tq enable the pilot, to embark and disembark 
with safety, which shall be of sufficient length to reach the water, 

when the ship is in an unloaded condition and has no list, from 
the deck on which it is intended that the pilot shall embark and 
disembark; 

(b) a man-rope of not less than 2J Inches circumference on each side of 

the ladder, the inboard end of the man-rope being firmly secured 
to the ship; 

(c) means to enable the ladder to be used on each side of the ship and 

to enable the pilot to pass safely from the head of the ladder to 
the deck of the ship. 

(9) Vessel shall not anchor within the Outer Channel Fair-way Buoys or 

within 4 Cables length across the Entrance marked by the Outer 
Channel Fair-way Buoys, or in any other prohibited Anchorage as 
marked on Admiralty Chart 239 Approaches to Vlzagapatam Port, 
nor shall a master attempt to enter thei channel to pick up a pilot. 

(10) It will be incumbent upon the master of a vessel to avail of the 

service of the port tugs, while navigating within the port limits. 

(11) In the event of a vessel parting her , moorings, whether secured to a 

jetty, quay, or buoys, it will be ncessary to have an anchor ready for 
letting go, without delay, and to be prepared to meat such an emer- 
gency with readiness and despatch as the result of the parting of 
her moorings which may be serious” 


[No. F.17A-PG(38)/57,] 
FATEH CHAND. Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 9th August 1959 

G.S.R. 1069. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
56 of the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957), read with clause (r) of sub- 





28, 


. 19, 


L r - 


section (2) of that section, the Central Government hereby makes the following 
rules, namely: — 

1. These Rules may be called the Delhi Development (Grant of allowance to 
non-offleial members of the Advisory Council) Rules, 1959. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, (unless the context otherwise requires) — 

(i) “Act” means the Delhi Development Act, 1957; 

(ii) “Advisory Council” means the advisory council constituted under 

section 5 of the Act, and 

(iii) “Authority” means the Delhi Development Authority constituted under 
section 3 of the Act, 

3. Grant of allowance to non-offlclai members of the Advisory Council. — A 
non-official member of the Advisory Council shall be paid by the Authority — 

(i) daily allowance at the rate of Rs. 15 per day for attending a meeting of 

the Advisory Council; and 

(ii) whenever a member, who is not a lesident of Delhi, has to come from 

an outstation to Delhi specifically to attend a meeting of the 
Advisory Council, mileage allowance for the journey at such rate as 
is admissible to an officer of - the Central Government of the first 
grade, under Section V of the Supplementary Rules of the Centra) 
Government; 

Provided that in case of a member of Parliament, who is also a member 
of the Advisory Council, the said daily and mileage allowance will 
be admissible when the Parliament is not in session and on production 
of a certificate by the member that he has not drawn any such 
allowance for the same journey and halts from any other Government 
source. 


[No. F.12-197/57-LSG.] 
A. P, MATHUR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

CORRIGENDVM 

Ni;'v Delhi, the 1 4th September 1959 

G.S.R. 1070. — Substitute the words “Two years” for the words “Six Months” 
occuring in column 11 of the Schedule to the Recruitment Rules published in the 
Gazette of India as General Statutory Rules No. 506. 


[No. 2/69/59-A. 4.] 
RAMESHWAR DASS, Under Secy. 

MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 
(Railway Board) 

New Delhi, the 10th September 1959 

G.S.R. 1071. — In pursuance of clause (b) of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the 
Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Act 74 of 1956), the Central Government hereby 
authorises the Directors, Joint Directors and Deputy Directors of the Railway 
Board to be the authorised officers for the purposes of that clauso. 

[No. 59/779/l/RS(l).] 

R. E. de Sa, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

ORDER 

New Delhi-2, the 14 th September 1959 

G.S.R. 1072. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 17 of the Cinema- 
tograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952), the Central Government hereby exempts cinema- 
tograph exhibition of films in the premises of recognised educational institutions 



L IH, . , j A 28,.. 1273 


in the Union Territories of India from the operation of section 10 of the said Act, 
subject to the following conditions namely: — 

1. Only films of a predominantly educational nature, certified as such by the 

Central Board of Film Censors, of films approved as scientific films, 
films intended for educational purposes, films dealing with news and 
current events or documentary films approved by the Film Advi- 
sory Board shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited. 

2. No admission fee, except to the extend required to cover expenses, shall 

he charged. 

3. No person other than students and staff of the Institutions, members of 

the Managing Committees of the Institutions and any guest3 special- 
ly invited by the authorities or the Institutions and those enumerated 
under condition (9) below shall be admitted to the show. 

4. Only non-infiammabic films and film strips shall bo exhibited or per- 

mitted to be exhibited. 

5. The persons organising the exhibition of films shall be responsible for 

taking adeauate safety measures against fire or any other mishap 
like the collapse of gallaries, roof etc., of the place where such 
films are exhibited. 

6. No advertisement films shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited 

7. All Institutions which avail themselves of this exemption shall main- 

tain a register of the films exhibited and comply with any other 
directions that may bo issued in this behalf by the Administrations 
concerned, The register shall be open to inspection by duly autho- 
rised officers of each Administration. 

8. This exemption shall be valid for a period of one year with effect from 

the date of issue of this order unless revoked earlier. 

9. Employees of the Administration, members of the Central Board of Film 

Censors and its Advisory Panels and Regional and Assistant Regional ' 
Officers of the Board engaged in the discharge of their official duties 
shall be admitted to the place where the exhibitions are held and to 
the film shows, 

[No. 6/30/59-FC.l 
D. R. KHANNA, Under Secv 


PRINT BO IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVT. OP INDIA PRESS 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI 1959 




