1HS GA/HTTF OF INDIA f$NftlARY 7, 1961/FAUSATJ, 1883 



other materials (including waste material); by the Director or the 
Deputy Director, Advertising and Visual Publicity. 


S. In the case of the Films Division: — 

ID (a) Contracts to be en ered into with artistes and other persons engag- 
ed by the Films Division in coinection with the production of films; 

(b) contracts relating to the processing work of the Films Division; 

(c) con ra"ts for the sale of wasfii films, sweepings or other salvage 

material; 

<d) contracts for the purchase of wooden packing boxes and other 
stores; 

<c) contracts and other instruments for the production of films for Gov- 
ernment by private producers; 

If) contracts and other instruments relating to the purchase of films for 
the Films Division; 

ig) contracts with private distributors in India for the distribution of 
full length films released by the films Division; and 

(h) contracts for the sale of stock-shots; by the Controller of Films Divi- 
sion 1 , Bombay. 


mi) All contracts for supply on rentals for commercial and non-commer- 
cial exhibition, free of rentals for non-commercial exhibition, and 
sale of prints of films produced and/or released by the Films Division; 
by the Officer in-charge of Distribution , Films Division, Bombay. 

eiii) All contracts relating to the 'commercial distribution of Films Division’s 
films in foreign countries; bu the Controller of Films Division, Bom- 
bay or the Bead of the Chancery in the Indian Mission in the country 
in which the distributors are incorporated. 


f. In the case of the Directorate of Field Publicity: — 

(a) All contracts and instruments relating to (a) purchase, supply and 
conveyance or carriage of materials, s' ores and equipment and re- 
pairs thereof and (b) disposal of surplus and obsolete stores; and 

/hi a’l contracts with registered dramatic troupes and artistes relating 
to the Song and Drama Division; by the Director of Field Publicity, 
Regional Offieets Direc'orate. of Field Publicity, Information Officers 
Press Information Bureau while working in the Regions of Directo- 
rate of Field Publicity in Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala States. 


7, In the case of the Song and Drama Division: — 

(i) (a> Contracts with authors of scrip s for the purchase of coypright; and 

(b) agreements for the purchase or sale of stores, eauipment and materials 
(including waste material); by the Director, Song and Drama Divi- 
sion. 


.(ii) Contracts with artistes; by the Director , Deputy Directors, the Admin- 
istrative Officer, Song and Drama Division, Regional Officers Directo- 
rate of Field PublicPy , Information Officers Press Information Bureau 
while working in the Regions of the Directorate of Field Publicity 
in Jammu and Kashmii and Kerala States, Field Publicity Officers, 
Mass Contract Officers, Publicity Organisers, Directorate of Field 
Publicity. 


t, In the case of the Central Board of Film Censors: — 

Contracts and Instruments relating to (a) purchase, supply and conveyance 
or carriage of stores, materials, equipment etc., and (b) disposal of 
waste films, paper and other obsolete stores and materials; by the 
Chairman, Central Board of Film Censors. 


i). In the case of the Research and Reference Division: — 

All Contracts and instruments relating to the 

( a i purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores, 
equipment etc,; 

(b) disposal of surplus, obsolete and waste paper; 

(c) binding of books, newspapers, etc.; and 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, I961/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Part II 


(d) payment of advance subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers-,, 
magazines, periodicals etc.; by the Deputy Director, Research awl 
Reference Division. 

10. In the case of the Integrated Photo Unit: — 

All contracts and instruments relating to the 

(a) purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores and 

equipment and repairs thereof; 

(b) disposal of surplus, obsolete and waste stores; and 

(c) sale of waste films, sweepings or other salvage materials; by the Chief 

Photo Officer, Integrated Photo Unit. 

11. In the case of the Film Institute of India: — 

All contracts and instruments relating to the 

(a) sale of waste films and other scrap materials; 

(b) servicing of cinematograph equipments and air conditioners etc.; and 

(c) purchase of films for the Film Institute; by the Principal, Film In- 

stitute of India, 

12. Security bonds of cashiers and .other Government servants whom the 
officers specified below have the power to appoint, or their sureties, to secure 
the due execution of an office or the due accounting for money or other property 
received by virtue thereof; by the Director General All India Radio, the Deputy 
Director General (Administration), All India Radio, the Principal Information- 
Officer, the Director Publications Division, the Director of Advertising and Visual 
Publicity , the Deputy Director ( Administration ) Directorate of Advertising and 
Visual Publicity, the Controller Films Division, the Administrative Officer Films 
Division, the Director of Field Publicity, Regional Officers Directorate of Field 
Publicity, Information Officers, Press Information Bureau while work! ng in the 
Regions of the Directorate of the Field Publicity in Jammu and Kashmir and 
Kerala States, the Director Song and Drama Division, the Chairman Central Board 
of Film Censors, the Deputy Director Research and Reference Division, the Regis- 
trar of Newspapers for India, the Principal of the Film Institute of India. 

13. Agreements or leases for the hiring of buildings required for the accom- 
modation of offices a* places other than New Delhi, Simla, Calcutta and Bombay 
provided that such hiring is within his competence and that the period of lease 
does not exceed 5 years at a time; by the Principal Information Officer Press In- 
ment property; by the Director or the Deputy Director Publications Division, the 1 
Deputy Director ( Administration ) Advertising and Visual Publicity, the Con- 
troller Films Division, the Director of Field Publicity, Regional Officers of the- 
Directorate of Field Publicity, Information Officers Press Information Bureau 
while working in the Regions of the Directorate of Field Publicity in Jammu ana 
Kashmir and Kerala States. 

14. Contracts and other instruments relating to repairs, servicing etc., o 
equipment, motor and all other types of vehicles, bicycles or any other Govern 
roent property; by the Director or the Deputy Director Publications Division, th 
Director or the Deputy Director (Administration) of the Directorate of Advertit 
inn and Visual Publicity, the Controller of Films Division, the Administratit 
Officer Films Division the Director of Field Publicity, Regional Officers of tf 
Directorate of Field PublicPy, Information Officers Press Information Buret 
while working in the Regions of Directorate of Field Publicity in Jammu a- 
Kashmir and Kerala States, the Director Song and Drama Division the Chaim. 
Central Board of Film Censors ”, 

3. In Part XI which relates to the Ministry of Irrigation and Power, af 
Head C, the following Head shall be inserted, namely: — 

“D. In the case of the Ganga Discharge Circle and the Ganca Barrage F 
Investigation Circle (subject to any limits fixed by the Departme 
Orders) : — 

1. (a) All instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance 
carriage of materials, stores and machinery; 



5 


Sfc. 3(i)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 196I/PAUSA 17, 1882 


(b) all Instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con- 
nected with buildings, bridges, roads, canals; tanks; reservoirs; 
docks and harbours and embankments, generation and transmission 
of electricity and instruments relating to the construction of water- 
works, sewage works, the erection of machinery, fhe working of 
coal mines and bulk supply of electricity; 

{c) bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance and 
completion of works; 

i(d) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants whom the 
officers specified below have powers to apDoint or their sureties, to 
secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for 
.money or other property received by virtue thereof; and 

V e/ leases for grazing cattle on canal banks or road sides, for fishing in 
canals, for the cultivation of lands, leases of water for irrigation 
and other purposes, leases of water power and Instruments relating 
to sale of grass, trees or other produce on road sides or in planta- 
tions; by Superintending Engineers, Executive Engineers, Assistant 
Executive Engineers, Assistant Engineers or Sub-Divisional Officers. 

a, (a) Leases of houses, land or other immovable property provided that 
the rent reserved does not exceed Rs. 5,000 a month; 

<D) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 
security; 

,cj agreements for the recovery of fines on account of drift wood or other 
timber passing into a canal; 

taj agreements relating to crossing of canals, roads and bunds; 

,<,e) Instruments connected with the collection or farming of tools at 
bridges or ferries or other means of communication; 

Hi agreements relating to the loan of tools and plant to contractors and 
others; and 

(g) contracts for catering in hostels and tiffin rooms or for the protection 
of conveyance belonging to the staff working In public buildings; 
by Superintending Engineers or Executive Engineers. 


4 . In Part XVIII which relates to the Ministry of Transport and Communica- 
tions — 

(1) Under Head A, after item 8, the following Item shall be inserted 
namely : — 

"7. In the case of the Directorate General Border Roads:— 


j(i) (a) All Instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or 
carriage of materials, stores, machinery, 'artd hiring of land and 
accommodation. 


<b) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con- 
nected with camp structures and buildings, including demolition 
and site clearance of buildings, bridges, canals, tanks and reser- 
voirs, aerodromes' and all Instruments relating to the construction 
of water, sewage and electrical works and the erection of machinery; 


<c) security bonds for the due performance and completion of works; 

<d) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their 
sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due account- 
ing for money or other property received by virtue thereof; 


<e) 

'(f) 


[1 service agreements v/ilh civilian personnel whom the officers 
specified below have powers to appoint; 

1 contracts and Instruments relating to (i) disposal of surplus and 

obsolete stores (other than controlled Hem of iron and steel 

exceeding Rs 500/- in book value In each category and textiles) 

not exceeding Rs. 5,000/- in value in any single category, and 



6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 7, 196I/PAUSA 17, 1882 


[L'akt II 


(li> \Yaste stores; by the Director General Border Roads, -^kief 
Engineers, Independent Deputy Chief Engineers, other Deputy 
Chief Engineers with prior approval of the Director General 
Border Roads, Commanders Engineers, Commanders Task Forces, 
Garrison Engineers Works Sections, Officers Commanding Cons- 
truction Companies, or Officers Commanding Transit Depots. 

(ii) Agreements and other instruments relating to the taking bulk supply 
of electric energy and water from on outside source 

(a) when the annual payment in each case does not exceed Rs. 10,000/- 

by Commanders Engineers or Commanders Task Forces; 

(b) when the annual payment in each case exceed Rs. 10,000/- but doea 

not exceed Rs. 1,00,000/- by Chief Engineers or Independent 
Deputy Chief Engineers; 

(e) when the annual payment in each case exceed Rs. 1,00,000/- by the 
Director General Border Roads, 

(iii) Contracts and other instruments relating to the printing of forms etc.; 
by the Chief Engineers or Independent Deputy Chief Engineers.” 

(ii) Under Head B, in clause (i) of item 4, after the words ‘Controller of 
Mail Motor Service’ the words ‘or the Controller of Telegraph 
Traffic’ shall be inserted. 

5. In Part XXII which relates to the Indian Audit and Accounts Department— 

(i) In item 4, the following proviso shall be inserted at the end, namely; — 

"Provided that in the case of advances granted by the Government to 
the Director of Audit, Indian Accounts, London, and the Audit 
Officer, Indian Accounts, Washington, such contracts, agreements 
and other instruments may also be executed by the Comptroller 
and Auditor General of India or the Deputy Comptroller and 
Auditor General of India.” 

(ii) In item 5, the following proviso shall be inserted at the end, namely; — 

“ Provided that in the case of the officers and staff under the Director of 
Audit, Indian Accounts, United Kingdom or of officers and staff 
under the Audit Officer, Indian Accounts, Washington, such con- 
tracts and instruments relating to the grant of advances for the 
purchase of motor cars and motor cycles, may also bs executed 
by the Director of Audit and Audit Officer, Indian Accounts, Lon- 
don/Washington respectively.” 

6, In Part XXIII which to the territories under the administration of the 
Chief Commissioner, Delhi — 

(i) In item 2, the list of officers authorised to execute contracts and other 

instruments mentioned therein, shall be substituted by the follow- 
ing, namely; — 

“by the Deputy Commissioner, the Chief Secretary., a Secretary, an. 
Under Secretary to the Chief Commissioner or in so far as con- 
tracts under (c) are concerned, by the Land and Development 
Officer, Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply, or in so far as 
contracts and instruments under clauses (6), (c) and (e) are con- 
cerned, by the Development Commissioner or the Assistant Deve- 
lopment Commissioner,” 

(ii) In item 6, the following proviso shall be inserted’ at the end, namely; — 

“ Provided that in the case of the Development Department such con- 
tracts and instruments may also be executed by the Assistant 
Development Commissioner.” 

[No; I7(l)/80-J]. 

P, K. BOSE, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 28th. December 1960 

G.S.R. 5, — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Foreign 
Jurisdiction Act, 1947 (47 of 1947), and of all other powers enabling it in this be- 
half, the Central Government hereby makes the following Order, namely; — 

1. (1) This Order may be called the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immov- 
able Property (Application to the State of Pondicherry) Order, 1960. 



Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1061/PAUSA 17, 1882 


7 


[2) It shall come Into force at once. 

2. (V) The provisions of the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Pro- 
perty Act, 1952 (Act 30 of 1952), (hereinafter referred to as the said Act), are 
hereby applied to, and shall be in force In the State of Pondicherry (hereinafter 
referred to as the said State) subject to- 
la) any amendments to which the said Act is for the time being generally 

subject in the territories to which it extends, and 

(b) the subsequent provisions of this Order. 

3. Reference in the said Act to the State Government or to a law not in force, 
or to any functionary not In existence, in the Bald" State, shall be construed as a 
reference to the Central Government or to the corresponding law, if any, in force 
or to the corresponding functionary in existence, in the said State, as the case 
may be: 

Provided that if any question arises as to who such corresponding functionary 
is, the decision of the Central Government thereon shall be final. 

[No. 608-Eur. W/0O/GP.J 
[No. 36(13)-Eur.-W/59/GF.] 

A. DAS GUPTA, Under Secy, 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 29 th December lUBO 

G.S.R. 6. — The following draft of certain rules to amend the Part C States 
Prize Competitions Rules, 1950, in their application to the Union territories of 
Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 
which the Central Government propose to make in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by section 20 of the Prfze Competitions Act, 1955 (42 of 1955), is hereby 
published for the information of persons likely to be affected thereby as required 
by sub-section (1) of the said Section. 

2. Notice is hereby given that the draft rules will be taken into consideration 
on or after the 8th February 1901, and' that any objection ^ or suggestion which 
may be received from any person with respect thereto before that date will be 
considered by the Central Government. 

DRAFT RULES 

1, These rules may be called the Part C States Prize Competitions (Amend- 
ment) Rules, 1961. 

2. In the Part C States Prize Competitions Rules, 1956, in Form ‘B’; after con- 
dition No, 3A, the following condition shall be inserted, namely: 

“3B. In every prize competition the licensee shall deposit the solution, pre- 
determined by him with reference to that prize competition. In a 
sealed cover with the Licensing Authority before any publication, 
ticket or coupon relating to such prize competition is issued by him.” 

[No. F. 20/25/60 P.II(P.IV] 

C. P. S. MENON, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi-11, the 31st December 1960 

G.S.R. 7. — In pursuance of rule 11 of the Indian Administrative Service 
(Payj Rules, 1954, the Central Government after consultation with the Govern- 
ment of Maharashtra, hereby makes the following amendments in Schedule III 
appended to the said rules. 

2. The amendments shall be deemed to have come into force on 1st May 1960. 

Amendments 

In the said Schedule, 

(1) under the heading “A — Posts carrying pay above the time-scale pay of the 
Indian Administrative Service under the State Government”, at the end of the 
entries against “Maharashtra”, the following shall be added: — 

‘‘Settlement Commissioner and 

Director of Land Records 2250”; 



8 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 196I/PAUSA 17, 1882 


[Part II 


(2) under the heading “B— Posts carrying Ray In the senior time-scale of'-the 
Indian Administrative Service under the State Governments ineluding posts 
carrying special nays in addition to' pay In the time-scale” against ""Maharashtra”, 
the following entry shall be deleted: — 

“Settlement Commissioner and Director of Land Records,” 

[No, 1/128/6 0-AIS (II). 1 

G.S.R. 8. — In pursuance of rule 11 of the Indian Administrative Service 
(Pay) Rules, 1954, the Central Government after consultation with the Govern- 
ment of Rajasthan, hereby makes the following amendments in Schedule III 
appended to the said Rules. 

Amendments 

In the said Schedule III, 

(a) Under the heading “A — Posts carrying pay above the time-scale pay 

in the Indian Administrative Service under the State Governments" — 
Against “Rajasthan” the following entry shall be added — 

“Commissioner for Departmental Enquiries 2250” 

(b) Under the heading “B — Posts carrying pay In the senior time-scale of 

the Indian Administrative Service under the State Governments 
including posts carrying special pays in addition to pay in the time- 
scale" — 

against “Rajasthan”, the following entries shall be added— 

“Principal, Officers' Training School. Jodhpur. 

Director of Consolidation. 

Commissioner for Excise and Taxation. 

Labour Commissioner." 

2. These amendments shall be deemed to have come into force with effect 
from 17th October, 1960. 

[No. l/165/60-AIS(II).J 
T. R. RAGHURAMAN, Under Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 29th December 1960 

G.S.R. 9.— In pursuance of Clause (22) of Article 366 of the Constitution of 
India, the President is hereby pleased to recognise His Highness Maharaja ShrJ 
Daljit Singh as the Ruler of Idar with effect from 24th November 1960 in succes- 
sion to His late Highness Maharaja Shri Hlrrimat Singhjf. 

[No. F. 3/46/60-Poll.III.j 

L. P. SINGH, Addl. Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 3*d December 1960 

G.S.R. 10.— In partial modification of this Ministry’s notification No. 1/83/00- 
AIS(Il), dated 3rd June, I960, published as G.S.R'. 637 in the Gazette of India 
Part II, Section 3(i) dated 1 1th June 1900 for the figures “1650 — 75—1950” appearing 
against the entry “Commissioner of Police” under "Gujarat” in part (l)(i) of the 
notification, the following figures shall be substituted — 

“1450—50—1650” 

[No. 1/83/60- AIS(II) ] 
T. C. A. SRINIVASAVARADAN, Dy. Secy. 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue) 

New Delhi, the 1th January 1961 
Customs 

G.S.R. II— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as .applied 



Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


9 


to tfie State of Pondicherry the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendment In the notification of the Government of India, in the Ministry 
Uf Finance (Department of Revenue) No. G.S.R. 575 (55/F. No. 34/86/60-Cus.IV.), 
dated the 28th May, I960, namely: — 

Amendment 

In the Schedule to the said notification, for the existing entry at Serial Number 
81 and entries relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“81. All Wool Fabrics and mixed fabrics (including Hosiery) containing 
wool and synthetic fibre’’, 


[No. 133/F. No. 34/297/60-Cus.IV,] 
Medicinal and Toilet Preparations 

G.S.R. 12. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Medicinal 
and Toilet Preparations (Excise Duties) Act, 1955 (16 of 1955), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby makes the following rules to amend the Medicinal and Toilet 
Preparations (Excise Duties) Rules, 1956, namely — 

1, These rules may be called the Medicinal and Toilet Preparations (Ex- 

cise Duties) Amendment Rules, 1960. 

2, In the Medicinal and Toilet Preparations (Excise Duties) Rules, 1956— 

(a) under the heading ‘Non-Pharmacopoeial Preparations’, under sub- 

heading ‘Medicinal Preparations), — 

(i) the entry ‘ELIXIR MELAGDINE’ shall be omitted: and 

(ii) for the entry ‘Spiritus Limonis’, the entry ‘Spiritus Lemonis (except 
M/s. Calcutta Chemical Company’s Lemon Syrup B.P.’)' shall be 
substituted; 

(b) under the heading ‘Non-Pharmacopoeial Preparations', under sub- 

heading ‘TOILET PREPARATIONS’, 

(i) for the entry ‘Eau-de-Cologne (Except Tata’s Eau-de-Cologne)’, the 

entry “Eau-de-Cologne (Except Tata’s, and Calcutta Chemical 
Co.’s Eau-de-Cologne)” and 

(ii) for the entry ‘Lavender Water’, the entry ‘Lavender Water (Except 

Calcutfa Chemical Co.’s Lavender Water)' 
shall be substituted. 


[No. 1-F. No. 45/5 (16) /59-Opium.] 


Dangerous Drugs 


G.S.R. 13. — In pursuance of clause (a) of rule 2 of the Central Opium Rules, 
1934, the Central Government hereby mak s the following amendments in the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department 
of Revenue)., No. G.S.R. 1177, dated the 8th October, 1960 and published in Part 
II Section 3(i) of the Gazette of India, dated the 8th October, 1960, namely: — 

In the Schedule appended to the said notification, in Part I, for the entry 
in the third column against District “Gonda”, the following entry 
shall be substituted, namely— 

“Mahadewa, Nawabganj, Mankapur, Utraula, Balrampur; Gwarlch and 


Digsir”. 


[No. 2-F. No. 6/5/6Q-Opium.] 


Customs and Central Excise 

G.S.R. 14. — The following draft of rules further to amend the Customs and 

Central Excise Duties Export Drawback (General) Rules, 1960, which the 

'Central Government proposes to make In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (3) of section 43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878) and sec- 
tion 37 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), as in force in India 

and as applied to the State of Pondicherry, is published as required by the said 

Sub-section (3) of the said section 43B for the information of all persons likely 
to be affected thereby; and notice is h"rebv given that the said draft will be 
taken Into consideration on or after the 8th February, 1961, 



10 THE GA/.ET1E OP INDIA: JANUARY 7, I9G1/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Pari II 


2, Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person 'with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


DRAFT RULES 

1. These rules may be called the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export 
Drawback (General) Amendment Rules, 1960. 

2. In the First Schedule to the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export 
Drawback (General) Rules, 1960, for Serial Number 14 and entries relating, 
thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“14 Staple fibre yarn 

Six rupees and five naye paise per fifty 
Kilogrammes". 

[No. 1/F. No. 34/153/GO-Cus.IV.J 

G.8.R. 15. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 
43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878) and section 37 of the Central Excises 
and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944) as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following further amend- 
ment in the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export Drawback (General) Rules, 
1960, the same having been previously published as required under the said sub- 
section (3) of section 43-B, namely: — 

Amendment 

1. These rules may be called the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export 
Drawback (General) Amendment Rules, 1960. 


2. In the Second Schedule to the Customs and Central Excise Duties Export 
Drawback (General) Rules, 1960— 

(1) for the existing item at Serial Number 50 and entries relating thereto, 
the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

‘‘50. All wool fabrics and mixed fabrics (including Hosiery) containing 
wool and synthetic fibre”, 

(il) for the existing item at Serial Number 43 and entries relating thereto 
the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

‘‘43. Air conditioners, Refrigerators and Water coolers”, 

(111) the existing Item at Serial Number 49 and entries relating thereto shall 
be deleted, 

[No. 133/F. No. 34/297 / 60-Cus.IV.J 
M, C. DAS, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Central Excises 

New Delhi, the 7th January 1961 

GSR 16. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules 
further to amend the Central Excise Rules, 1944, namely: — 

1 These rules may be called the Central Excise (Second Amendment) Rules, 
1961.’ 

2. In the Central Excise Rules, 1944 — 

(1) in rule 174, — 

(i) in item 3(a), the word “and” shall be omitted; 

(ii) in item 3(b), the word “and” shall be added at the end; 

(iii) after item 3(b), the following shall be inserted, namely— “(c) All 

holders of private bonded warehouses other than those m the licensed 
premises of a manufacturer.” 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 H 


' (2) in the Table sub-joined to rule 178. under the head ng "Manufactured 
Products”, alter item IV, the following shall he inserted, namely- — 

"V. The holders of private bonded warehouses, other than 

those in the licensed premises of a manufacturer, 

which house manufactured excisable goods Rs. 25-00,” 

[No. 2/61. J 
L. M. KAUL, Dy. Secy„ 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH & CULTURAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi- 2, the 311th December 1960 

G.S.R, 17,— In pursuance of section 13 of the Indian Museum Amendment)' 
Act, I960 (45 of 1960), the body corporate known as "the Trustees 'df the Indian- 
Museum” is hereby re-constituted with effect from the 1st January, 1961, and the* 
Trustees of the Indian Museum (as re-constituted) shall be: — 

Ex -Officio Chairman. 

1. The Governor of West Bengal; 

Ex-Officio Trustees. 

2. The Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Scientific- 

Research and Cultural Affairs; 

3. The Mayor of the Corporation of Calcutta; 

4. The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Calcutta; ■ 

5. The Accountant General, West Bengal: 

Trustees nominated by the Central Government, under clause ( f ) of sub-section (lj 
of section 2 of the Indian Museum Act, 1910 (10 of 1910); 

6. Dr. Nihar Ranjan Ray, M.P., 68-4A, Purna Das Road, Calcutta; 

7. Shri Birendra Nath Mookerjee, 7, Harrington Street, Calcutta; 

8. Dr. S. K. Bhuyan, Vice-Chancellor, University of Gauhati, Gauhati; 

9. Director, Geological Survey of India, Calcutta; 

Trustee nominated by the Government of West Bengal, under clause (g) of sub- 
section (1) of section 2 of the said Act. 

10. Shri S. N. Ray, I.C.S: (Retd) Calcutta; 

Trustee nominated by the Council of the Asiatic Society, Calcutta under clause • 
(h) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the said Act. 

11. Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, M.A., Ph D., F.A.S, Calcutta; 

2, The nominated Trustees shall hold office for a period of three years from* 
the 1st January, 1961. 

[No. F. 2-19/00. C-3.J 
T. S. KRISHNAMURTI, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES & FUEL 
(Department of Mines and Fuel) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 30th December 1960 

G.S.R. 18.~In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
24 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957 (67 of 
1957), the Central Government hereby makes the following amendments in the 
Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel, De- 
partment of Mines and Fuel, No, MII-l59(15)/58, dated the 4th December, 1959, 
namely; — 

In the Schedule to the said Order- 

fa) the entries relating to the State of Andhra Pradesh shall be replaced? 
as under: 

1. Director of Mines and Geology. 



12 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 19G1/PAUSA 17, 1882 


[Pmu II 


2. Senior Assistant Director of Mines. 

3. Deputy Director of Mines and Geology. 

4. Assistant Director of Geology. 

5. Assistant Geologists 

6. Collector Kurnooi. 

7. Collector Anantpur 

8. Collector Cuddapah. 

9. Collector Chlttoor. 

10. Collector Nellore. 

11. Collector Guntur. 

12. Collector East Godavan. 

13. Collector West Godavari 
.14. Collector Krishna, 

15. Collector Srikakulam. 

16. Collector Visakhapatnam. 

17. Collector Hyderabad. 

18. Collector Medak, 

19. Collector Karimnagar. 

20. Collector Mahbeebnagar 

21. Collector Khammam. 

22. Collector Warangal. 

23. Collector Adllabad. 

24. Collector Nalgonda. 

25. Collector Nizamabad. 

26. All Joint Collectors in the districts where posts exist. 

27. Special Deputy Collectors for Mines, Srikakulam and Nellore, 

(b) the entries relating to the State of Bombay shall be omitted; 

(c) after the entries relating to the State of Madhya Pradesh, the follow- 

ing entries shall be inserted, namely: — 

" 1 2 
Maharashtra 

(1) Director of Geology and Mining. 

(2) Collectors of the Districts. 

(3) Deputy Director of Geology and Mining. 

(4) Geologists. 

(5) Assistant Geologists. 

(6) Deputy Collectors. 

(7) Assistant Collectors. 

(8) Mamlatdars. 

(9) Tehsildars, 

(10) Sub-divislonal officers.”; 


(dj after the entries relating to Delhi, the following entries shall be In- 
serted, namely: — 


Gujarat 


(1) Director of Geology and Mining. 

(2) Collectors of the Districts. 

13) Deputy Director of Geology and Mining. 

(4) Geologists, 

(5) Assistant Geologists. 

(6) Deputy "Collectors. 

(7) Assistant Collectors. 

(8) Mamlatdars. 

19) Tehsilrlars. 

(10) Sub-divisional officers,”; 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 196I/PAUSA 17, 1882 

(e) In the entries relating to the State of Punjab, in column 2, after entry 
6, the following entry shall be inserted namely: — 

"7. Assistant District Industries Officers.” 

DNo. MII-159 (15)/ 58. J 
H, S. SAHNI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 27th December 198(1 

G.S.R. 19. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section- 
50 of the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957), read with clauses In) end (r> 
of sub-section (2) of that section, the Central Government hereby makes the fol- 
lowing rules, namely: — 

1. Short title and commencement. — (i) These Rules may be called the Delhi 
Development Authority (Preparation of Budget) Rules, i960. 

(II) These shall come Into force at once. 

2. Definitions. — in these rules, unless the context otherwise requires — 

(a) ‘Act’ means the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957), 

(b) “Authority” means the Delhi Development Authority constituted under 

section 3 of the Act; 

(c) “Form” means the form appended to these rules; 

(d) “Government” means the Central Government; 

(e) “Vice-Chairman” means the Vice-Chairman of the Delhi Development 

Authority. 

(f) “year” means the financial' year beginning on the 1st of April and end- 

ing on the 31st of March following. 

3. Form of budget estimates. — The budget in respect of the year next ensuing 
showing the estimated receipts and expenditure of the Authority shall be prepared 
In Form A. I., and submitted to Government by the 15th October each year, Such 
estimates shall be accompanied by the revised budget estimates for the current 
year. The budget shall be based on the account head given In Appendix to these 
rules. 

4. In sufficient time before the date fixed for submission of the annual budget 
to the Government under rule 3, the Accounts Section of the Authority shall fill 
up columns 2 to 7, on both the receipt and expenditure sides, of Part II of Form- 
A.I, and send copies of relevent portions to the Sections~concemed including the 
Centra] Public Works Department, accompanied, where necessary, by a schedule- 
of establishment in Form No. A, 2 columns 8 to 11 of Part II of A-I shall then be- 
filled up by the Sections concerned, separate notes "giving full explanation of any 
variations shown In columns 10 and 11 being attached. 

Provided that — 

(a) provision proposed for new items of expenditure shall be dealt with in 

accordance with rule 6; and 

(b) the Central Public Works Department and the Works and Development 

Sectiofi or other Section concerned of the Authority shall append to 
Form A, I, two schedules! one' in Form A. 4 showing the works and 
schemes in progress and another in Form A. 5 showing the new 
works and schemes proposed to be taken in hand during the next 
year wherein minor works and schemes shall be shown in one lump 
sum supported bv details as far as^ possible, the budget estimate of 
minor works and schemes Is based' on ' past experience; but details 
shall be given wherever they are available. 

5. Submission of sectional estimates for the orders of the Vice-Chairman. — - 

The Sections concerned shall return the Forms duly completed to the Accounts 
Section within such period as may be fixed by the vice-chairman. The Accounts 
Section shall submit them for the orders of the vice-chairman with, such comments 
as may be necessary. 



M 


THE GAZETTE Of INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1901/PAUSA 17, 1883 


[Part II 


6. Proposals for pew Items of expenditure.— Proposals for new Items of ex- 
penditure, other than works and schemes, shall be submitted by the Sections con- 
cerned in Form A. 3 On receipt, from the Sections they shall be submitted for 
the orders of the vice-chairman in the same way as the estimates in Form A. I, 
Tart II. 

7 CrasolUl _Ul,m of sectional estimates, — The Accounts Section shall, thereairer 
consohd^te the sectional estimates into one budget estimate in Form A. I, all new 
items he ng shown separately in red ink In Part II. Similarly, tho sectional sche- 
dules in Forms A. 3, A. 4 and A. 5 shall be consolidated and attached to these 
•estimates together with the schedules In Form A. 2 and the notes giving brief 
■■explanation of the variation between, (i) the sanctioned and the revised estimates 
of the current year and (il) fhe revised estimates of the current year and the 
budget estimates of the next year, 


8. Submission of budget estimates to the Authority. — The budget estimates as 

compiled in accordance with rule 7 shall be placed before the Authority by the 
5th of October each year for approval. On receipt of the orders of the Authority, 
"the Accounts Section shall prepare a final edition of the budget Incorporating 
■therein such modifications as have been decided upon by the Authority. Four 
■copies of the final edition, with copies of the schedules, shall be submitted to 
Government by the 15th of October. 

0. Estimate of Income. — The estimate of income shall be based upon.— 

fl) the actuals of the past three years in respect of recjjning income from 
land or other sources with such modifications as may be necessary In 
the light of probable increases or decreases due to factors which can 
be foreseen; and 

(2) the programme of sales of land as far as such a programme can be 
drawn up. 

10. Estimate of contingent expenditure. — (1) For contingent_expenditure, the esti- 
mate shall be based upon the average actual expenditure of the' past three years 
exclusive of any special Items of expenditure That might have been Incurred 
.during those years Variations should, however, be made where justified and 
should be adequately explained. 

(21 The three years average mentioned in rules 9 and 10 shall he treated 
merely as a guide. 

11. Estimate of establishment expenditure and fixed recurring charges. — The 

estimate of expenditure on fixed establishment as well as fixed monthlv recurring 
charges on account of rent, allowances, etc., shall be made according to the actual 
sanctioned scale and shall provide for the gross sanctioned pay without deductions 
of any kind To this shall be added a suitable provision for leave salary based 
•on past experience with due regard to the intentions of the members of the staff 
-In regard to leave as far as they ‘can be ascertained. If experience indicates that, 
the total provision for fixed charges made on these lines is likely to prove exces- 
sive, a suitable lump deduction should be made from the total. 

12 Estimate of expenditure on works and schemes. — Expendityre on works and 
schemes is bv far the most important item in the budget estimates of the Autho- 
rity. The amount of interest payable on loans^vlH depend largely on the standard 
of estimating th's expenditure and extreme care sfioutrl therefore be exercised in 
framing the revised as well as the budget estimates of expenditure to be incurred 
on works and schemes. Any tendency towards optimism on the part of technical 
officers should, as far as possible, be neutralized by applying lump cuts. It shall 
be the duty of the Accounts Section to suggest modifications on the basis of past 
-experience. 

13 Confining of provision in budget estimates to actual requirements. — All 

grants and appropriations lapse at the close of the year and unspent balances 
shall not he available for expenditure after the close of the year for the purpose 
■for which the grant was sanctioned. In the case of works and schemes in pro- 
gress it will usually be possible, if necessary, to lncrease_the grants of a year to 
cover the grants which have lapsed n+ the end of the_ Drevious year, by such 
means a= are open under these or their rules but special care should be taken to 
Iceep the budget estimates within the limits of actual requirements in order to 



Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE: OF INDIA : JANUARY 7,I96l/PAUSA 17, 1882 


.save unnecessary indirect charges. Any tendency, however, towards the end of a 
year to utilize the grants shall be open to grave objection. 

14. Amended original estimates. — If during the course of a year it is found 
■necessarv to modify the budget estimates materially, a modified budget shall be 
prepared by the Authority, and submitted to Government. Any such budget shall 
bejtreated as an original sanctioned estimate. If no modified budget is submitted, 

-fihy necessary changes in the original estimates shall be made by re-appropria- 
tions, fresh allotments, etc., as usual. 

15. New nr additional expenditure which cannot be met by re-appropriation. — 

If the nccesstv for some new or additional expenditure is fully established during 
the course of the year and the funds cannot be provided by re-appropriation, jt 
will be open to the Authority to make fresh allotments or to increase the existing 
allotments, provided funds can be made available from opening balances, addi- 
tional allotments by Government or from increases, anticipated or realised, in In- 
come for which a supplementary estimate should be submitted. Such proposals 
shall be accompanied by a statement in Form A. 6. In respect of new scheme 1 ; 
Involving fresh borrowings from Government, the expenditure should not be 
Incurred unless the scheme has been accepted broadly in principle by Government 
and provision of token amount made in the original budget. 

10. Re-appropriations and emergent expenditure. — No expenditure which is not 

■covered by provision in the sanctioned budget estimate, or which is likely to cause 
excess over the amount provided under any head, shall be incurred without provi- 
sion being made by re-appropriation from some other head under which savings 
are ascertained or anticipated. Inevitable expenditure which cannot be met by 
re-appropriation or which can be met only by additional allotment, may be In- 
curred with the previous approval of the Authority and in emergencies under the 
orders of the vice-chairman, a report of which shalfTie made to the Authority at 
Its next meeting. The application for re-approprlation or additional allotment of 
funds should, however, be made to the Authority as soon as possible explaining 
the circumstances in which the expenditure had to be incurred in anticipation of 
its sanction. 

17. Powers of the Authority to sanction re-approprlations. — The Authority may 
■sanction re-appropriations of funds from one major head of account to another or 
within any major head; 

Provided that without the prior anproval of Government, no re-appropriation 
shall be made from Nazul to non-Nazul or vice versa and from Slum or Rehousing 
Accounts to General Development Account and vice versa. 

18. Form of statement of re-approprlation. — Proposals for re-approprlatlon 
shall be accompanied by a statement in Form A. 7. The explanation of proposed 
Increases and decreases should be amplified. If necessary, while seeking sanction. 

19. Effect of re-approprlatlon sanctioned by Government. — When a re-appro- 
prlatlon is sanctioned by the Government, the amount, so transferred shell be 
treated as a loan which shall carry interest from the date of sanction to the re- 
appropriation or the date of expenditure, whichever is earlier (lihless some other 
date is specifically prescribed in the sanction! at the same rate as Is charged on 
Government loans to the Authority and which shall be liquidated from the next 
year’s receipts of the debtor account from loan or otherwise. 

20. Inevitable payments. — The want of provision in the budget estimates or 
the temporary exhaustion of the budget allotment under any head shall not operate 
to prevent payment -or refund of any amount due by the Authority or to prevent 
record of any payment under its proper head of account. All liabilities incurred 
shall be liquidated without delay and in no eirrumstmees shall be liabilitv be 
allowed to stand over and above and be paid from the - budget grant of the follow- 
ing year, nor shall payments of refunds be postponed to the last days of a month 
or the last month of a financial year. 

[No. F. 6-12/60-LSG.) 

A. K. DAR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS. HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 28 th December 1900 

G.S.R. 20. — The following draft of certain rules further to amend the Ex- 
plosives Rules, 1940 which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise 



1H- OAztTl E 6* INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961 /PA USA 17, 1882 


[Part It 


10 


of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian Explosives Act, 1884 (4 of 18841. 

Is published as required by section 18 of the said Act, for the information of all 
persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said 
draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 31st January, 1961, 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by tn«_ 
Central Government. 

1. These rules may be called the Explosives (Amendment) Rules, 1960. 

2, In the Explosives Rules, 1940, in Schedule V; in licence form 'N’ against 

the entry “In the State of Madras”, for the figures and word ”25 lbs" 
the figures and word ”10 lbs” shall be substitutes*. 

(No. S&PII-3(40)/0O.J 
M. N. KALE, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
(Departments of Communications and Civil Aviation) 

(P. & T. Board) 

New Delhi, the 27 th December 1960 

G.SR. 21. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating 
the recruitment through competitive examination to the cadre of Assistant 
Engineer (Workshops), Class II, namely: — 

1, These rules may be called the Assistant Engineer (Workshops), Class II, 
(Examination) Rules, 1961. 


2. For the purpose of these Rules — 

(a) "Government” means the Government of India, 

(b) “The Commission” means the Union Public Service Commission. 

(c) “The Service” means the cadre of Assistant Engineer (Workshops), 

class II, particulars in respect of which are given in Appendix IV, 

3 A comDetitive examination for admission to the Service shall be held in 
India at such times and places as may be prescribed in the Notice issued by the 
Commission. Every such Notice will when possible announce the number of 
vacancies to be filled on the result of the examination. 

4. If (he examination held under this part of these _ Rules is a ^combined 
examination for the purpose of making appointments to more than one bervlce 
the following provisions shall apply: — 

<*> 

arr&'SJEas-ss. Surahs ££g 

for and the order of his preference for them, and m such case F 

afetlS ACT ' 

™ G sissss. ! r.“»adess s, s ^ h «>\3S‘“ ef “" ECe “ y 

personal preference expressed by the candidate. 

da l, In ^uch^^winer^an^n^ such'^orm^s^e ^ommisskwf ^ay ^prescribe, 6 

6. A candidate must be either 
(a) a citizen of India, or 

£ a ™ S “ origin who has . migrated from Pakistan with the 
intention of permanently settling in In a or possession 

(d ) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or former French 
in India. 



Sec. 3(i)j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


*7 


Note. — The appointment of candidates in categories (c) and (d) above will 
bo subject to the issue of certificates of eligibility in their favour by the Gov- 
ernment of India. The certificate of eligibility in respect of candidates belong- 
ing to category (c) will be valid only for a period of one year from the date of 
his appointment beyond which he would be retained in service only if he has 
become a citizen of India. Certificates of eligibility will not, however, be neces- 
sary in the case of candidates belonging to any one of the following categories: — 

(1) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July, 

1048, and have ordinarily been residing in India since then. 

(2) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th July, 

1048 and have got themselves registered as citizens under Article 6 
of the Constitution. 

(3) Non-citizens of categories (c) and (d) above who entered service 

under the Government of India before the commencement of the 
constitution, viz., 26fh January, 1950 and who have continued in 
such service since then. Any such person who re-entered or may 
re-enter such service with break after the 26th January, 1950, will, 
however, require certificate of eligibility in the usual way. 

Note 2. — A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary may 
be admitted to the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by 
Government. 

7. (a) No male candidate who has more than one wife living shall be eligi- 
ble for appointment to any of the Services appointments to which are made on 
the results of this competitive examination unless the Government of India after 
being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempt any male 
candidate from the operation of this rule. 

(b) No female candidate who has married a person having already a wife 
living shall be eligible for appointment to any of the services appointments to 
which are made on the results of this competitive examination unless the Gov- 
ernment of India after being satisfied that there are special grounds for doing 
eo, exempt any female candidate from the operation of this rule. 

8. On the dale prescribed by the Commission in their Notice of the examina- 
tion issued under Rule 3 a candidate must have attained the age of 20 and must 
not have attained the age of 25, provided that the upper age limit of 25 will be 
relaxable upto 30 in the case of candidates who hold substantively permanent 
posts in the Posts and Telegraphs Department, or have continuously held for a 
period of not less than two years temporary posts of (1) Foremen, or (2) Assist- 
ant Foremen, or (3) Assistant Engineers (Workshops) in the Posts and Telegraphs 
Workshops, such relaxation being limited to three examinations only. 

Departmental candidates must obtain previous permission of the Head of the 
Department to appear for the examination. 

Note. — The upper age limits prescribed above will be relaxable: — 

(i) Upto a maximum of five years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 
Caste or a Scheduled Tribe. 

( 11 ) Upto a maximum of three years if a candidate is a bona fide displaced 
person from Pakistan; 

This concession will not, however, be admissible to a candidate who has 
already appeared at five previous examinations or in the case of 
those employed in the Posts and Telegraphs Department at eight 
previous examinations, 

(iii) Upto a maximum of eight years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled 

Caste or a Scheduled Tribe and Is also a bona fide displaced per- 
son from Pakis'an. 

This concession will not, however, be admissible to a candidate who has 
already appeared at ten previous examinations or in the case of 
those employed in the Posts and Telegraphs Department at thirteen 
previous examinations. 

(iv) Upto a maximum of three years if a Candida 1 c is a resident of the 

former French Settlements which have now become part of India 
and has been receiving Iris education through the medium of 1 rench. 



jg THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1361 /PA USA 17, 1882 [Part II 


(v) Upto a maximum of 4 years if a candidate belongs to the Andaman 
and Nicobar Islands. 

N. b,. — C andidates who are admitted to the examination under the age con- 
cession mentioned in this rule will not be eligible for appointment if, after sub- 
mitting the application, they resign from Service either before or after taking 
the examination. They will, however, continue to be eligible if they are 
retrenched from the service or post after submitting the applications. 

SAVE AS PROVIDED ABOVE THE AGE LIMITS PRESCRIBED CAN IN NO 

CASE BE RELAXED. 

9. A candidate must have — 

(a) obtained a degree in Engineering from a university incorporated by 

an Act of the Central or of a State Legislature in India; or 

(b) passed Sections A and B of the Associate Membership Examination 

of the Institution of Engineers (India) or have any other educa- 
tional qualifications recognised by that institution, as exempting 
from passing these sections, or 

(c) obtained an engineering degree of one of the universities mentioned 

in Appendix I under the conditions prescribed in that Appendix; or 

(d) passed the Honours Diploma Examination in Civil, Mechanical or 

Electrical Engineering of the Loughborough College, Leicestershire 
provided the candidate has passed the common preliminary examina- 
tion or has been exempted therefrom; or 

(e) obtained the B.E. (Tele-Communication) degree awarded by Indian 

Universities; or 

(f) passed the Graduate Membership Examination of the Institution of 

Tele-communication Engineers (India). 

Note 1. — In exceptional cases the Commission may treat as a qualified candi- 
date, a candidate, who, though he has not all or any of the qualifications pres- 
cribed in this rule, has passed examinations conducted by other instiiutions of a 
standard which in the opinion of the Commission justifies his admission to the 
examination. 

Note 2. ^Candidates who have appeared at an examination the passing of 
which would render them eligible to appear at this examination, but have not 
been informed of the result may apply for admission to the examination. Candi- 
dates who intend to appear at such a qualifying examination may also apply, 
provided that the qualifying examination is completed before the commencement 
of this examination. Their applications will be accepted provisionally and they 
will be required to furnish proof of having passed the examination as soon as 
possible and in any case not later than two months after the commencement of 
the examination. 

10. No candidate shall be admitted to the examination unless he holds a certifi- 
cate of admission from the Commission. 

The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candidate 
for admission to the examination shall be final. 

11. A candidate found guilty of impersonation or of submitting fabricated docu- 
ments or documents, which have been tampered with or of making statements 
which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information or of using or 
attempting to use unfair means in the examination hall or otherwise resorting 
to any other irregular or improper means for obtaining admission to the examina- 
tion may, in addition to redermg himself liable to a criminal prosecution be 
debarred either permanently or for a specified period — 

(a) by the Commission from admission to any examination or appearance 

at any interview held by the Commission for selection of candidates; 
and 

(b) by the Central Government from employment under the Government. 

12. No recommendations except those required in the application form shall be 
taken into consideration. Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain sup- 
port for his candidature by other means may disqualify him for admission. 



•Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


19 


13. Candidates must pay such examination fees as Government may prescribe 
(See Appendix III). No claim for a refund of any of those fees will be entertain- 
ed nor can they be held in reserve for any other examination or selection. 

14. Examinations under these Rules shall be conducted by the Commission in 
the manner prescribed in the regulations which form Appendix II to these Rules. 

15. (a) After every examination the Commission shall make a list of the candi- 
dates in order of their merit as disclosed by the aggregate marks finally awarded 
to each candidate and in that order so many candidates up to the number of 
vacancies announced under rule 3 above, as are found by the Commission In their 
discretion to be qualified by the examination and are considered by Government 
or the appointing authority, as the case may be, to be suitable in all other respects, 
shall be appointed. 

(b) Appointments to vacancies to be filled by members of a particular com- 
munity or communities shall be made by Government or the appointing authority 
as the case may be, in the order of merit of the candidates belonging to the parti- 
cular community or communities provided they have qualified in the examination 
and are in all respects suitable for employment In the Service. 

(c) Success in the examination confers no right to appointment, unless Govern- 
ment are satisfied, after such enquiry as may be considered necessary that the 
candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the public Service. 

Note. — The form and manner of communication of the result of the examina- 
tion to Individual candidates shall be decided by the Commission in their discretion. 

16. A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health, and free from any 
physical defect likely to interfere with the discharge of his or her duties as an 
officer of the Service. A candidate who (after such physical examination as 
Government or the appointing authority, as the case may be; may prescribe) is 
found not to satisfy those requirements will not be appointed. Only candidates 
who are likely to be considered for appointment will be physically examined. 

In order to prevent disappointment candidates are advised to have themselves 
examined by a Government Medical Officer of the standing of a Civil Surgeon 
before applying for admission to the examination. Particulars of the nature of 
the physical test to which candidates will be subjected before appointment and of 
the standards required can be had from the Commission 

17. (a) Appointments shall be made on probation for a period of two years. 

(b) If, in the opinion of Government, the work or ronduct of an officer on 
probation is unsatisfactory, or shows that he is unlikely to become efficient, Gov- 
ernment may discharge him forthwith. 

(c) On the conclusion of his period of probation and on passing the prescribed 
test at the end of practical training prescribed by the competent authority, Govern- 
ment may confirm the officer in his appointment or if his work or conduct has in 
the opinion of Government been unsatisfactory. Government may either discharge 
him from the Service or may extend his period of probation for such further 
period as Government may think fit. The candidate will not ordinarily be permit- 
ted to cross the stage of pay of Rs. 475 or he considered for further promotion 
unless he passes the professional examination prescribed by the Department. 

(d) If no action Is taken by Government "under sub-rule (b) or (r) of this rule, 
<he period after the prescribed period of probation shall be treated as an engage- 
ment from month to month, terminable on cither side, on the expiration of one 
calendar month’s notice In writing. 

(e) If the power to make appointments in the Service is delegated by Govern- 
ment to anv officer or authority, that officer or authority may exercise any of the 
powers of (government under this rule. 

J8. Probationers will also be required to pass a test in Hindi before confirmation. 

Appendix I 

List of Unii icrsity degrees which will be recoQQis'-d. for admission to the examina- 
tion [vide Rules 9(e)], 

Aberdeen.— B, Sc, Engineering (Honours or Ordinary degrees). 



20 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


[Pari II 


Cambridge . — Ordinary B.A. decree in engineering provided the graduate has 
passed In the principal subjects, Engineering I, Engineering II an‘d Engineering III, 

Durham. — B.Sc. in Marine Engineering. 

Glasgow. — B.Sc. in Naval Architecture (Honours or Ordinary degree). 

Note. — The above degrees will be accepted only if taken after three years' 
study and the passing of the regular examinations in the several Universities. The 
conditions as to three years' study will not, however, apply to Indians who; having 
taken an Indian degree, which exempts them from part of the University course 
shall have taken one of the above degrees in less than three years in accordance 
with the regulations of the University concerned. 

Appendix II 

Standard and syllabus of the Examination (vide Rule 41) 


Subjects Maximum Marks 


(a) Compulsory — 

1. English (including Essay & precis writing) 100 

2. General knowledge 100 

3. Applied Mechanics (including Strength of Materials) 200 

4. Theory of Machines and Machine design 200 

5. Prime Movers 200 

8. Personality Test 300 


Total 1,100 


(b) Optional — (any two of th? following subjects! 

1. Hydraulics and Hydraulic Machines 1 00’ 

2. Electrical Engineering 100- 

3. Metallurgy 100 

4. Workshop Technology 100: 

5. Physics (including Electricity & Magnetism) ion 

6. Workshop Organisation & Management 100 


Note 1.- — All papers must be answered In English. 

Note 2.— Candidates must write the papers in their own hand. In no eircum- 
utances will they be allowed the help of a scribe to write answers for them. 

2. The standard and syllabus of the examination will be such as the Commit 
sion shall prescribe. 

3. The Commission have discretion to flx qualifying marks in any or all the 
subjects at the examination. 

4. The Commission will summon at their discretion only those candidates whom 
they consider suitable for interview for the Personality Test. 

5. Special attention will be paid in the Personality Test to assessing the 
candidates’ capacity for leadership, initiative and intellectual curiosity, tact and 
other social qualities, mental and physical energy, powers of practical application 
and integrity of character. 

0. From the marks assigned to candidates in each subject such deduction will 
be made as the Commission may consider necessary In order to secure that no 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge. 

7. Deductions up to 5 per cent of the maximum marks for the written subjects 
will be made for illegible handwriting. 

8. Credit will be given for good English — orderly, effective and exact expression 
and due economy of words — in all subjects of the examination. 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, {882 


21 


Appendix III 
FEES 

(vide Rule 13) 

Candidates seeking admission to the examination must pay the following fees 

(a) To the Commission: 

(i) Re. 1 when asking for application form and connected documents. 

This amount should be paid to the Commission by Money Order. Local 
candidates, however, may pay cash at the counter. The Commission 
will not accept payment made otherwise. 

(ii) Rs. 81:50 (Rs. 19:62 in the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled 

Castes and Scheduled Tribes) with the completed application form. 

This amount should be paid by means of Treasury Receipt or CROSSED 
Indian Postal Orders payable to Secretary, Union Public Service 
Commission. The Commission will not accept payment made 
otherwise. 

(h) To the Medical Board: 

Rs. 16 before examination by a Medical Board, if selected for appointment. 

This amount should be paid in cash to the Medical Board concerned at the 
time of the Medical examination. 

2, Once an application has been considered by the Commission and the decision 
communicated to the candidate no claim from the candidate for a refund of the 
fee paid by him to the Commission will be entertained nor can this fee be held 
in reserve for any other examination or selection. If however, a candidate is 
not admitted to the examination by the Commission, a refund of Rs. 75 (Rs. 18' 75 
In the case of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) 
will be made to him. 

3. The Commission may at their discretion remit the prescribed fee where 
they are satisfied that the applicant is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan 
and is not in a position to pay the prescribed fee, The fee of Re. 1 however, 
must be paid even by a displaced person when asking the Commission for form 
and this amount will be refundable to him, if on receipt of his application, his 
claim to be a displaced person is accepted by the Commission and his fee is 
remitted. 

Appendix TV 

General conditions of service prescribed for candidates recruited to the cadre of 
Assistant Engineer (Workshops) , Class II. 

1. Fifty per cent of the vacancies in the Service will be filled by candidates 
Tecruited through Competitive Examination. 

2. Candidates to be recruited through Competitive Examination will be 
appointed as probationers for a period of two years during which they will under- 
go practical training in accordance with the programme of training that may be 
prescribed from time to time. Those who are favourably reported upon at the 
end of two years and have passed any departmental examination or examinations, 
that may he prescribed, will be appointed to working posts in the Service. 

3. Officers recruited under these rules shall be eligible for leave, increment 
and pension in accordance with the rules for the time being in force applicable 
to officers of the Central Government. They will also be eligible to join the 
General Provident Fund in accordance with the rules regulating that Fund. 

4. These officers shall be liable for transfer anywhere in India. 

5. The inter se seniority of officers appointed through Competitive examina- 
tion will ordinarily be determined by their order of merit, in the competitive 
examination. Government of India, however, reserve the right of fixing the 
seniority at their discretion in individual cases. 

6. The following are the ra'es of pay admissible to officers appointed in India 
to the cadre of Assistant Engineer (Workshops) Class II: — 

Rs. 350 — 25 — 500 — 30 — 590 — E.B. — 30 — 800 — E.B.— 30 — 830—35 — 900. 



22 


[Part II 


TH£ GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAIJSA 17, 1882 

7. Officers of the Service arc eligible for promotion to posts in the General 
Central Service Class I (Workshops) under the rules. 

8. These conditions of service arc subject to revision according to the require- 
ments of service. Candidates will not be entitled to anv compensation if they 
are adversely affected by any changes in the conditions of service which may be 
introduced later on. 

[No. 2-12/60. W.K.] 
N. CHIDAMBARAM, 
Director Postal Technical. 


(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 30th December, 19G0 

G.S.R. 22. — In the Port of Cochin (Petroleum) Rules 1960 published with 
the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Transport and 
Communications (Department of Transport — Transport Wing) No. G.S.R. 1241 
dated the 13th October, 1960, the following corrections shall be made, namely: — 

(1) The words “the strength of the tide” appearing in line 3, rule 4 of 

Section I, shall be substituted by the words “strength of ebb tide”. 

(2) The words “book to the ships tanks” appearing in line 3, rule 13 of 

Section II, shall be substituted by the words “back to the ship’s 
tank". 

(3) The word “continued” appearing in line 3, rule 17 of Section II, shall 

be substituted by the word "discontinued”. 

(4) The word "exempt” appearing in line 2, rule 20 of Section II, shall be 

substituted by the word “except”. 

(5) Tire word "Loading" appearing in the marginal heading of rule 24 of 

Section III shall be substituted by the word “Landing”. 

(6) The word “fresh” appearing in line 4 of rule 34(8) of Section III shall 

be substituted by the word “from”. 

(7) The word “aangerous" appearing In the heading under Annexure II 

shall be substituted by the word “dangerous”. 

[No. 6B-PG(50)/58.J 
M. V. NILAKANTA AYYAH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 28 th December 1960 

G.S.R. 23. — In exercise of the powers conferred . by the proviso to article 
309 of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules to 
further amend the National Archives of India (Class III posts) Recruitment 
Rules, 1959, published with the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Education No, G, S. R. 1148, dated the 17th October, 1959, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the National Archives of India (Class III posts) 
Recruitment Amendment Rules, 1960. 

2. In the Schedule to the National Archives of India (Class III posts) Recruit- 
ment Rules, 1959, , 

against serial No. 7, 

(i) the existing entries under column 6 shall be omitted. 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1 961/P AUSA 17, 1882 


23 


(ii) for the existing entry under column 7, the following entry shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“Selection 25 per cent on the basis of a competitive examination limited to 
Lower Division Clerks”, 

(iii) under column 8, the en ( ry “75 per cent” shall be inserted, 

(iv) the existing entries under column 11 shall be omitted, 

(v) the existing entries under column 13 shall be omitted, 

(vi) immediately after the existing entries under column 14, the words “for 

g osts to be filled by seniority~cum~fltnest; only; for posts to be filled 
y limited competition, Lower Division Clerks (including Hindi 
Typists) in accordance with specific rules as may be prescribed for 
the purpose” shall be inserted. 

[No. F. 4/13/60-A. 10.1 
D. N. TIWARI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 31s t December 1960 

G.S.R. 34. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
recruitment of persons to General Central Service Class II posts in the Education 
Department of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindlvi Islands Administration, 
namely: — 

1, Short title, — These rules may be called the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi 
Islands Education Department (Class II posts) Recruitment Rules, 1960. 

2. Application. — These rules shall apply for recruitment to the post specified In 
column 1 of the Schedule to these rules. 

3. Number. Classification and scale of pay.-— The number of posts, classification 
of the said posts and the scales of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in 
columns 2 to 4 of the said Schedule. 

4, Method of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications. — The method of 
recruitment, age limit, qualifications and other matters connected therewith shall 
be as specified in columns 5 to 13 of the Schedule aforesaid: 

Provided that the maximum age limit specified in the Schedule in respect 
of direct recruitment may be relaxed in the case of candidates belong- 
ing to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other special cate- 
gories In accordance with the orders issued by the Central Government 
from time to time, 

B. Disqualification. — No mole candidate who has more than one wife living and 
no female candidate, who has married a person having already a wife living, shall 
be eligible for appointment, unless the Central Government, after having been 
satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempts any such candidate 
from the operation of this rule. 



34 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 196I/PAUSA 17, 1882 


[Past II 


Recruitment Rules for the post of Education Officer L. M. and A. Islands 


Name of 
post 


No, of Classification Scale of Pay Whether Age limit Educational and other 
posts selection for direct qualifications re- 

post or recruits quired for direct rc- 
non- cruits 

selection 
post 


123 4 5 <5 7 


Education 
Officer 
L.M. & A. 
Islands. 


(if) Degree or Dip- 
loma in Education 
of a recognised 
University/ Insti- 
lution. 


One G.C.S. Rs. 300 — 25 — Selection Below 40 Essential: 

Class II 500. years ( i ) Master’s or equi- 

Gazettcd (Relaxable valent Honours 

(Non- for Govt. degree of a recog- 

Ministcrial). Servants) nised University. 


(in) About ; years 

experience ol teach- 
ing in a recognised 
educational Insti- 
tution ol which 

about 3 years should 
be in an adminis- 
trative capacity. 


(iv) Knowledge 
Malayalam. C 


of 

Quali- 
fications relaxable 
at Commission's 
discretion in the 
case of candidates 
otherwise well 
qualified. 


Desirable : 

(i) About 3 years ex- 
perience as an 
Inspecting Officer 
in Education Deptt. 
ol a Central or State 
Govt. 

(it) Experience of 
Social Work. 

(Hi) Knowledge of 
Hindi. 



Sec. 3(i)l 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


25 


in thi Ministry of Filiation 


Whether 

Period 

Method of recruit- 

In case of reett. by pro- 

If a DPC 

Circumstances 

age and 

of 

ment whether by di- 

motion/ transfer, grades 

exists, what in which U.P. 

educational 

proba- 

rect recruitmer t or 

from which promotion 

is its com- 

S. C, is to be 

qualifies- 

tion if 

transfer and percent- 

to be made 

position. 

consulted in 

dons 

any 

age of the vacancies 



making re- 

prescribed 


to be filled by various 



cruitment 

for the 
direct 
recruits 


methods 




will apply 
in the 






case of 
promotccs 






8 

9 

10 

II 

12 

13 


No 


Two By promotion failing Promotion : Class II As required 

years. which by transfer/ Head Master G.H.S. D.P.C. under the 

deputation & failing (L.M.A.) I (Rs. 300 — rules, 

both by direct re- 400 ) Class III (N.G.) 
cruitment. 

Transfer I deputation : 

Officer of the Education 
Deptt. holding ana- 
logous posts under 
the Central or State 
Governments. 


[No, F. 34-34/ 59-SE.2.1 

R. K. KAPUR, 
Deputy Educational Adviser 



26 THE CAZET 1 E OP INDIA: JANUARY 7, 19G1/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Part II 

MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi , the 28th December 1960 

G.S.R. 25. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating th® 
method of recruitment to certain Class I and II posts in the Directorate of Economics 
& Statistics In the Department of Agriculture of the Ministry of Food & Agricul- 
ture, namely: — 

1. Short title. — Theso rules may be called the Directorate of Economics and 
Statistics (certain Class I and II posts) Recruitment Rules, 1960. 

2. Application. — These rules shall apply for recruitment to the posts specified in 
column 1 of the Schedule to these rules. 

3. Number, Classification and scale of pay. — The number of posts, their classifi- 
cation and the scale of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in columns 2 to 4 
of the said Schedule. 

4. Method of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications. — The method of 

recruitment, age limit, qualifications and other matters connected therewith shall be 
as specified in Columns 5 to 13 of the Schedule aforesaid. 



SCHEDULE 

Recruitment Rides for the various Class I and Class II posts in the EHrectorate of Economics and Sialis'.tcs 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture 


Name of post 


I Classi - 

Num- fi cation 
her 
of 
posts 


Scale Whether 
of selection 
pay post or 
** non- 
selec- 
tion 
post 


Age 

limit 

for 

direct 

recruits 


Education & other 
qualifications required 
for direct recruits 


Whether 
age and 
Educa- 
tional 
qualifi- 
cations Period 
prescribed of 
for the proba- 
direct tion 

recruits if 
will any 

apply in 
the case 
of pro- 
mot ees 


Method of 
rectt. whether 

by direct In case of 
rectt. or recrannent by 


by promotion 
or transfer 
& percentage 
of the 
vacancies to 
be filled by 
various me- 
thods 


promotion/ 
transfer, 
grades from 
which 
promotion 
to be made 


If a 

Circums- 

DPC 

tances 

exists 

in which 

what is 

U.P.S.C. 

its 

is to be 

composi- 

consulted 

tion 

in making 
recruitment 


I. Deputy 
Director 
(Mechani- 
cal Tab ula- 
tian). 


General 700 — 40 Not 
Central — 1100 appli- 
Service, — 50/2 — cable. 
Class I. 1250. 


Below 45 Essential : — 
years (j) Master’s degree 
(Relaxable in Statistics/Mathe- 

for matics or in Eco- 

Govem- nomics (with Sta- 

ment tistcs) of a recog- 

scrvants), nised University. 

(a) About 5 years’ 
pracctical exprience 
of statistical work 
in a responsible 
capacity in .plan- 
ning sad executing 
work on mechanical 
tabulation. 


Not appli- Two 
cable. years 


Direct recruit- Not appli- 
ment. cable. 


Not appli- As requir- 
cable. ed under 
the rules. 


Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/P AUSA 17, 1882 



4 

• * 


00 


12 


13 1 


2. Editor 


Rs. 

(in) Knowledge of 
PUNCHED CARD 
MACHINES AND 
their components . 

Qnalifictions relaxable 
at Commission’s 
discretion in the 
case of candidates 
otherwise well qua- 
lified. 

Desirable — 

(i) Advanced training 
in punch card me- 
chanical tabulation 
technique and 
methodology of 
Hollerith and/or 
Powers-Samas equip- 
ment. 

eo. Practical expe- 
rience of mechanical 
tabulation of large 
scale economic sur- 
veys. 

(at) Knowledge of 
modem efficiency 
techniques, e.g., 
time and motion 
studies, quality 
control and me- 
thods of visual dis- 
play. 

G.C.S. 700 — 40 Selec- Below 45 Essential : — 

Class I —1100 — tion. years (i) Master’s degree No. 
50/2 — (relaxable in Economics/or 

1350. for Agricultural Econo- 

Govt. mics of a recognis- 



Two By promotion or Promotim '. — Class I As requir 
years direct recruit- Assistant DEC ed under- 
ment, the mode Editors — the rules, 

of recruitment with five 




servants). 


Assistant 

Editor. 


ed Univ er s i ty, or 
an equivalent quali- 
fication. 

( 0 ) About 5 years* 
experience of edi- 
torial and/or pub- 
licity wort. 

Cm) Knowledge of 
agricultural econo- 
mics. 


to be decided years’ 
on each oc- service in 
casion in con- the grade . 
sultation with 
the Commis- 
sion. 




l 


Qualifications re tax- 
able at Commis- 
sion’s discretion 
in the case of can- 
didates otherwise 
well qualified. 

Desirable — 
Experience of pro- 
duction/printing 
aspects of publi- 
cation work 


G.C.S. 350 — 25 Not Below 35 

Class II — 500— Appli- years 
Non- 30 — 59o cable, (telaxable 

Minis- — EB — for Go- 

tedaL 30 — Soo. vemment 

servants). 


Essential : — 

CO Master’s degree Not Two Direct recruit- 

in Economics/or Applicable, years ment. 
Agricultural Eco- 
nomics of a reco- 
gnised University 
or an equivalent 
qualification. 

(ri) About 2 years’ 
experience of edi- 
torial and/or 

publicity work, 

and/or experience 
of writing on eco- 
nomic problems. 

Qualifications relax- 
able at Commis- 
sion’s discretion in 
the case of candi- 
dates otherwise 
weil qualified. 


Not appli- 
cable. 


Not appli- As requi- 
cable. red 

under 
the rule s 


H 


Sec, S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1 96 1/P ALISA 17, 1882 



u> 

o 


I 2 


Note :■ 


3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 xi 12 13 


Rs. 

Desirable : — 

(i) Knowledge of Ag- 
ricultural Economics . 

(a) Experience of pro- 
ductio aj printing 
aspects of publica- 
tion work . 


-**The scales of pay indicated in column 4 of this Schedule are those indicated in Section n« Sub-Section 4 of the Schedule to th e 
Ministry of Finance Notification No. S. 0 . 2641 dated the 26th October, i960 containing the revised scales of pay for these posts. 

[No. F. 9-107/58-CfB)] 

N. RAN GAN ATHAN, Under Secy. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 



Sec, S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


31 


(Department of Food) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the joth December i960 

G.S.R 16 — In extrcise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential Commodities 
Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the following Order, namely:— 

1. This Order may be called the Foodgrains Movements (Conversion to Metric Weights) 
Order, 1961. 

2. The Orders specified in ihe first column of the annexed Table are hereby amended to the 
-extent and in the manner specified in the second column thereof. 

Table 


Order Nature of amendments 


(1) (2) 


1. Calcutta Wheat (Movement Control) Order, 
1956; S.R.O. 2033 ; 5-9-1956. 

2. Bombay Wheat (Movement Control) Order, 
1956; S.R.O. 2098; 17-9-1956. 

3. Bombay Rico (Export Control) Order, 19571 
S.R.O. 1852; 3-6-1957. 

4. Inter-Zonal Wheat Movement Control Order, 
1957; S.R.O. 1986; I3-6-I957. 

5. Rice (Southern Zone) Movement Control Or- 
der, 1957; S.R.O. 2258-A; 9-7-1957. 


16. Bihar Foodgrains (Movement Control) Order, 
I957J S.R.O. 40761 20-12-1957. 


7. Madhya Pradesh Rice (Movement Control) 
Order, 19571 S.R.O. 4077; 20-12-1957, 

8. Wheat (South Zone Export Control) Order, J 

1958; G.S.R. 703; 16-8-1958. /■ 

9. Uttar Pradesh Foodgrains (Movement Con- 
trol) Order, 19581 G.S.R. 758; 29-8-1958. 

IO. Rice (Northern Zonel) Movement Control 
Order, 19581 G.S.R. 818-A; 13-9-1958. 


11. West Bengal Wheat (Export Control) Order, 
1958; G.S.R. 10501 1-11-1958. 

12. Uttar Pradesh Paddy and Rice (Restriction on 
Movement) Order, 19581 G.S.R. 1233; 24-12- 
1958. 


- In the proviso to clause 3, for '‘five seers”, 
substitute ‘‘five kilograms”. 

In the first proviso to clause!, for "five seers” 
substitute ‘‘five kilograms . 

(i) In clause 3,— 

(a) in the first proviso, for ‘‘five seers”, 
substitute Dive kilograms”; 

(b) in the second proviso, for “ten 
maunds”, substitute “four quintals”, 

(ii) In the proviso to clause 3A, for “20 seers” 
and “5 seers”, substitute “twenty kilo- 
grams” and “five kilograms” respec- 
tively. 

In the proviso to clause 3 as well as in the 
proviso to clause 3A, for “five seers”, subs- 
titute “five kilograms”. 


In the proviso to clause 3, for “five seers”, 
substitute “five kilograms”. 


(i) In the proviso to clause 3, for “five seers”, 

substitute “five kilograms”! 

(ii) In the proviso to clause 3A, for “20 seers” 

and “5 seers”, substitute “twenty kilo- 
grams’’ and “five kilograms” rcspec 
tivcly. 

In the proviso to clause 3, for “five seers” , 
substitute "five kilograms”. 

In clause 3B, for “five seers”, substitute “five 
kilograms”. 



32 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7 , 1961 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 


[Part 1J 


(-0 


0 ) 


13. Punjab Paddy (Export Control) Order, 1959 ; 
G.S.R. 23; 3-1-1959. 

14. Uttar Pradesh Foodgrains (Restrictions on 
Border Movement) Order, 1959; G.S.R. 292: 
10-3-1959. 

15. Rajasthan Foodgrains (Restrictions on Border 
Movement) Order, 1959; G.S.R. 432; 9-4-59-. 

16. Madhya Pradesh Foodgrains (Restrictions on 
Border Movement) Order, 1959; G.S.R. 450; 
I 4 - 4 -I 9 S 9 - 

17. Delhi (Restriction on Import of Wheat Atta)' 
Order, 1959; G.S.R. 693; 15-6-1959. 

* 

18. Tripura Foodgrains Movement Control 
(No. 2) Order, 1959; G.S.R. 805; 11-7-1959.. 

*9. Rice (Eastern Zone) Movement Control Or- 
der, 1959 ; G.S.R. 1401 ; 21-12-1959. g 


20. Calcutta Rice (Movement Control) Order, 
1959 ; G.S.R. 1402; 21-12-1959. 

21. Rajasthan (Rice Import Restriction) Order, 

i960; G.S.R. 696; 17-6-1960. 


In the proviso to clause 3, for “five seers”,, 
substitute “five kilograms”. 

In the proviso to clause 3, for “five maunds’, 
and “five seers”, substitute “two quintals’’ 
and “five kilograms” respectively. 

In clause 5, for “20 seers” and “5 seers”, 
substitute “twenty kilograms” and "five 
kilograms” respectively. 

In the proviso to clause 3, for “10 maunds” 
and “5 seers”, substitute “four quintals” 
and “hvc kilograms” respectively. 


In the proviso to clause 3, for “five seers’’,, 
substitute “five kilograms”. 

(i) In clause 3,— 

(a) in the first proviso, for “five seers”, 
substitute “five kilograms”; 

( b ) In the second proviso, for “ten maunds”, 

substitute “four quintals”; 

(ii) In the proviso to clause 4, for “forty 
seers” and “five seers”, substitute “forty 
kilograms” and “five kilograms” respec- 
tively. 

In the proviso to clause 3, for “five seers”,, 
substitute “five kilograms”. 

In clause 3, — 

(i) in the first proviso for “five seers”,, 
substitute “five kilograms”; 

(ii) in the second proviso, for “ten maunds”,. 
substitute “four quintals”. 


[No. 204 (GENL)(8)/478/6o-PY.II. ] 

G.S.R. 27 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955 ), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following Order to amend the Rice (Madhya Pradesh) Second Price Control Order, 
1 - 058 , namely: — 

1 . This Order may be called fhe Rice (Madhya Pradesh) Second Price Control 
/"Amendment) Order, 1961 . 

2 , In the Table below Schedule IV to the Rice (Madhya Pradesh) Second Price' 
Control Order, 1958 ,- — 

(a) under the heading 'I Par-Boiled Milled Rice’, for Items 1 to 6 In column 
1 and the entries relating thereto in columns 2 to 5 , the following; 
Items and entries shall be substituted, namely: — - 




Free tolerance limit (per cent) 


“Constituents of admixtures or 
impurities 



6 


4 


2 


Rates at which cuts shall be imposed for 

• — — admixtures or impurities exceeding the 

tolerance limits specified in columns (2-) 
Fine II Fine I to (?) for coarse, medium II, Medium 
I, fine III, fine II and fine I 

67 8 


6 5 Coarse : — 

Over the tolerance limi t and up to 30% 

Re. 0-04 per maund for every 1%. 

Over 30% Re. 0*08 per maund for 
every 1%. 

Medium II : — 

Over the tolerance limit and up to 20% 

Re. o-os per maund* for every 1%. 

Over 20% Re. 0 08 per maund for every 

1%. 

Medium I ; — 

Over the tolerance limit and up to 19% 

Re. 0-06 per maund for every 1%. 

Over 19% Re. 0-09 per maund for 
every i%. 

Fines III, II and I : — 

Over tolerance limit Re. 0-09 per mmmH 
for every 1%. 

1 1 Over tolerance limit Re. 0-02 per maund 

for every 1%. 

0-5 0-5 Over tolerance limit at full value of the 

rice equivalent to foreign matter. 

0-5 0-5 Over tolerance limitRe. 0-03 per maund 

for every 1%. 

2 2 Medium II Sc I : — 

Over tolerance Kmit Re. 0 02 per maund i 
for every 1%. 

— u> 

u> 


8(3)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1981/PAUSA 17, 1882 


*34S6 7 


8 


6 Moisture content 

7 Dchusked grains 


15 15 15 


15 15 


6 


5 5 4 4 


Pine III 

Over 2% and op to 6% Re. 0'04 per 
maund for every l%. 

Ova 6% Re, 0 09 per maund for 
every 1%. 

Fine II : — 

Ova 2% and op to 5% Re. 0-04 per 
nattmd for every r%. 

Ova 5% Re. 0 09 per maund for 
evay 1%. 

Pine I 

Ova 2% and up to 4% Re. 0-04 pel 
maund for every 1%. 

Over 4% Re. 0-09 pa maund for 
every 1%. 

1 5 Ova tolerance limit at frill value of the nee 
equivalent to moisture content. 

4 Ova tolerance limit Re. o-ca pa maund 
for every 1%.”; 


(b) under the heading 'III Raw Rice’, after item 6 and the entries relating thereto, the following item and entries shall be inserted, 

namely : — 

‘Dehusked grains 5 5 5 4 4 4 Ova tolerance limit Re. 0-02 per maund 

for every 1% .” 


(No. 20i(MP) (5)/479/6 o-PY. II) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 1 , 1901/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Part II 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, I961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


35 


New Delhi, the 31st December 1960 

G.S.R, 28,— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makeB the 
following Order to amend the Rice (Punjab) Second Price Control Order, 
1960, namely: — 

1, This Order may be called the Rice (Punjab) second Price Control (Amend- 
ment) Order, 1961. 

2. In the Schedule to the Rice (Punjab) Second Price Control Order, 1960, — 

(i) in Apeendix I and Appendix II, after note (3), the following note shall 
be inserted, namely: — 

‘‘(4) In case the admixture of Inferior varieties mentioned in 2(b) Is 
more than 5 per cent and the incidence of red grains mentioned 
in item 4 is below 6 per cent such excess admixture of inferior 
varieties may be adjusted against and to the extent of the short- 
fall of red grains from 6 per cent and the excess admixture so 
adjusted may be deemed to be red grains subject to a cut where 
applicable at quarter value specified against item 4 above.”; 

(il) in Appendix 111(a) and Appendix 111(b), after note (2), the following 
note shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(3) In case the admixture of inferior varieties mentioned in item 1 is 
over 10 per cent and the incidence of red grains mentioned in 
item 3 is below 6 per cent such excess admixture of inferior varie- 
ties may be adjusted against and to the extent of the shortfall of 
red grains from 6 per cent, and the excess admixture so adjusted 
may be deemed to be red grains subject to a cut where applicable 
at quarter value specified against item 3 above.” 

[No. 201 (PB)(7)/480/60-PY.II.J 

G.S.R. 29. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following Order to amend the Madhya Pradesh Foodgralns (Restrictions on 
Border Movement) Order, 1959, namely: — 

1. This Order may be called the Madhya Pradesh Foodgralns (Restrictions on 
Border Movement) (Amendment) Order, 1961. 

2. In the proviso to clause 3 of the Madhya F’radesh Foodgralns (Restrictions 
on Border Movement) Order. 1959, after item (vl), the following item shall be 
inserted, namely: — 

"(vii) under and in accordance with the Madhya Pradesh Foodgralns (Ex- 
port Licence) Order. 1960." 

[No. 204 ( WFZ) (2) / 48 1 /60-PY.II, J 
S. N. BHALLA, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 28th December 1960 

G.S.R. 30. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
recruitment and some-other conditions of service of certain persons appointed to 
carry out measures financed from the Coal Mines Labour Housing and General 
Welfare Fund constituted under section of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund 
Act, 1947 (32 of 1947), namely: — 

1. Short title and commencement, — (1) These rules may be called the Coal 
Mines Labour Housing and General Welfare Fund (Recruitment to Class III and 
Class IV posts) Rules, 1960. 

(2) They shall come Into force at once. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1892 [Part II 


3<5 


2. Recruitment. — The classification, method of recruitment and certain other 
matters relating to the posts specified In column 2 of the Schedule to these rule* 
shall be as specified In other relevant columns thereof, 

3. Disqualification. — No person who has more than one wife living or marrying 
a person having a wife living shall be eligible for appointment to any post referred 
to In rule 2 : 

Provided that the Central Government may, in any exceptional case, and for 
reasons to be recorded In writing, exempt any person from the operation of this 
rule. 



SI. Name of the No. of Its Gassifi- Scale of Pay Whether 
No, Post posts cation in Rs. a selec- 

tion post 
or non- J 
selection 
post 



Rs. 

I Head Assis- i G.CS. 250 — 10 — 350 Non-Se- 

tant Class III. lection. 

Minister- 
ial. Non- 
Gazetted. 

„ Do. Do. 

„ 160 — 10 — 250 Selection 


2 Accountatnt . 

3 HeadQeik . 


2 

15 


Schedule 



Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 





4 Senior Clerk / 
Assistant 
Accountant 



No. 


I 


U) 

oo 


Intermediate/ 
Senior Cam- 
bridge/Higher 
Secondary Cer- 
tificate or equi- 
valent qualifi- 
cations. 

A degree from 
a recognised 
University. 

Intermediate/ 
Senior Cam- 
bridge /Higher 
Secondary Cer- 
tificate or equi- 
valent quali- 
fications. 


Matriculation or 
equivalent qua- 
lifications until 
replaced by 
Higher Secon- 
dary. Profi- 
ciency in typ- 
ing. 


years 

2 25% Direct Junior Clerks 

75% Promotion (6o — 130). 

Stenographers. 
(80—220). 
Cashier 
(80 — 220). 
Store-Keepers 
(80 — 220). 

jj By Promotion Stenographer 
failing which. (80—220) 
by direct rec- 
ruitment. 

„ Direct (Depart- 
mental can- 
didates will 
also be consi- 
dered). 


By promotion fai- Junior Clerk 
ling which by (60 — 130) 
direct recruit- 
ment 
Direct. 


Graduates with 
training in Social 
Welfare Work. 

(150—300). 
Assistant Wel- 
fare organisers 
(150—300). 


50 %Direch Junior Assis- 
50% Promotion, tant Inspector 
Labour Welfare 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Pabt II 






Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Experience in Does not 
the line. arise. 


Knowledge of 
Motor Driving. 


Graduate and 
knowledge of 
accounts and 
purchase of 
stores. 

Graduate with 
knowledge of 
Social work 
and diploma in 
Social Educa- 
tion. 


Promotion 100% Health Visitor 
(125— .225) and 
Field Worker 
(80 — 220) 


66-2/3% Direct. 
33-1/3% Pro- 
motion. 


Senior Clerk 
(80 — 220). 

Field Worker. 
(80 — 220). 

Senior Clerk 
(80 — 220). 

Field Workers 
(80 — 220). 


66-2/3% Direct. 

33-1/3% Pro- 
motion. 

Direct / or Pro- 
motion if sui- 
table depart- 
mental candi- 
dates are avai- 
lable 100%. 


Do. Cleaners (30 — 

1/2 — 35) and 

other class IV 

male staff (30 

I /'2— 35). 

Promotion 100% From lower cad- 
res. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/P AUSA 17, 1882 



18 Field Worker 


19 Store-keeper 


20 Welfare Wor- 
ker 


21 Pfaysio-The- 
ropist. 


Rs. 

G-C-S. 80 — 5 — 120 

Class in — EB — 8 — 

Ncc-Ministtrial 200 — 10/2 — 
Non- 220 

Gazetted 


100 — 5— 125 
— EB— 6— 
155— EB— 

6 — 185. 
60—3—81— 
— EB— * 
125— 5— 130 


200 — 10 — 400 


22 Ward Sister ■ 


23 G. C S. 200 — 10 — 300 

Class EH. — plus 15/- 

Non -minis- dhobi allow- 
teriaLNon- ance and 
Gazetted. tmiform al- 
lowance. 


Non- Intermediate/Se- 

Sektioa 18 — 2i nior Cam- 
bridge/Higher 
SecondaryCir- 
tificste or equ- 
ivalent quali- 
fications. 


„ ,, Matriculation or Does not 

equivalent qua- arise, 
lifkrrtions un- 
til replaced by 
Higher Secon- 
dary. 

„ 25 Matriculation. „ 

Certificate in 
■physio-therapy. 

Fully trained 
in established 
physio- therapy 
centre in big 
militar y or civil 
Hospital. Pra- 
ctical ex- 
perience nor- 
mally upto 5 
years. 

Non-Se- No age ‘A’ grade nur- Yes 
lection. limit- sing & senior 
mid- wif cry cer- 
tificate. Regis- 
tered in any 
of the States. 

Experience at 
le«t 3 years 
as a staff nnrse 
in a big hospi- 
tal or A regis- 


50% Promotion. Welfare Worker 
50% Direct. and AdultEdu- 
ratio n Instruc- 
tor (60 — 130). 


100% Promotion From Storekee- 
per (60 — 130). 


Direct. 


50% Direct. 
50% Promotion 


Staff nurse (100 
—5—125—6— 
185). 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17. 1882 {Part II 




13 Sister Tutor - t „ 250 — io — 30O . 3 35 

Rs. i5/-dtobi 
and uniform 
allowance. 


24 Staff Nurse . zoo 


100—5 — 125 
—6-185 
plus Rs. 15 /- 
dhobi and 
uniform al- 


lowance. 


tered nurse 
and midwife 
with B.Sc. 

(Hons.) or pass 
degree in Nur- 
sing and three 
years expe- 
rience as a staff 
Nurse. 

A registered Does not 
Nurse and arise 
Midwife with 
B.Sc. {Hons.) 
or pass Degree 
in Nursing 
with three 
years teaching 
experience in 
a school of 
Nursing or A 
registered Nurse 
and Midwife 
with a Sister 
Tutor’s certi- 
ficate from a 
recognised ins- 
titution. 

A grade nursing No. Mid- 
and senior wives 
midwifery cer- who have 
tificates. Re- passed 
gistered in any the course 
of the States, in Gene- 
Experience at ral Nurs- 
least three mg and 
years as staff fulfil 
nurse in a big other pres- 
hospital is de- cribed 
sirable. qualifi- 

cations 
are eligi- 
ble for 


3 ) 


Direct. 


50% Direct. Midwives sad 
50% Promotion, trained Nurses 

(60—130). 


promo- 

tion. 


Sxc. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


10 


II 


12 


25 


Probationary 
Norse or 
Student Norse 


32 


26 Mid wives 


26 


27 House keeper 


28 X*ray tech- 
nician. 


10 


Rs. 


Years. 


Years. 


G.C-S. 
Class in 
Non- 

Ministerial 

Non- 

Gazetted’. 


Stipend — Non- 

istyear Selection 

15/- P-HL 

2nd year 20/- p.m. 

3rd year 25/- p-m. 

4th year 30/- pan. 

Messing al- 
lowance 30/- p.m- 
Uniform al- 
lowance 
3‘ 75 P-m- 
Dhobi al- 
lowance 
4-50 p.m. 

Dearness al- 
lowance 40/- p.m. 

60 — 3 — 81— „ 

EB— 4 — 

125— 5—130 

Plus 15/- 
dhobi and 
uniform al- 
lowance. 


60 — 3 — 81 — 
EB— 4 — 125 
—5— 130- 


25 Matriculation, 


Does not 
arise. 


Direct. 


EB — 8 — 200 
— 10 / 2 — 200 . 


25 Senior Mid- 
wifery certi- 
ficate and re- 
gistered in any 
of the States. 


25 Matriculation. Does not 
Experience in arise. 
Managing a 
mess. 

„ Matriculation „ 

■with training 
in hospital la- 
boratory work. 

Preferably hol- 


Direct. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 19S1/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Part II 



Hina a Lab. 
Teck’s dip- 
loma from a 
recognised In- 
stt. Expe- 
rience about 
three years. 


29 Laboratory 10 IIInon-Mi- 80 — 5—120 — Non-Se- 25 Matriculation Does not 2 Direct. 

Te chnician, material EB— 8 — 200 — lection. with training arise. 

Non-Ga- 10/2 — 220. in hospital 

zetted. laboratory work. 

Preferably hol- 
ding a Lab. 

T ech.’s dip- 

loma firm a 
recognised 
Instt. Expe- 
rience three 
years. 


30 Store-keeper 5 , 3 Do. . . 18 — 21 Intermediate/ No. „ 100% Promo- Store -free per 

Senior Cam- tion. (60—130) 

bridge/Higher 
Secondary Cer- 
tificate or equi- 
valent quali- 
fications and 
experience in 
the line. 


31 Assistant 2 „ 60 — 3 — 81 — . . „ Matriculation or Does not „ Direct. 

Store-keeper. EB— 4— 125 equivalent qua- arise. 

— 5 — 130. 3 lification until 

replaced by 
Higher Secon- 
dary and ex- 
perience in the 
line. 



4 »- 


Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


12 3 4 


5678 9 10 11 


12 


Rs. 


Years. 


32 Chief Com- 
pounder. 


33 Compounder 

(Allopathy) 

34 Mistry 


35 Craft Instruc- 
tor. 


2 HI Non- 
Min is te rial 
Non -gazet- 
ted 


3i 


2 3) 


2 „ 


60 — 3 — 8 1 — EB — 
4— 125— 5— 130 
Plus Rs. 10/- 
spedal pay. 


60 — 3 — 81 — 

EB — 4 — 125 — 5 
—13°. 
60—5/2—75 


120 — 8— 200 


36 Massiuer 


60—5/2—75 

— 5 — 100. 


37 Lady Health 14 
Visitor. 


125—10—225 
plus Rs. 15/- 


25 


33 


33 


> 3 


33 


Matriculation. No 
Must possess 
qualifications 
entitling him 
to Registration 
under Section 
31(c) or 32 of 
the Indian 
Pharmacy Act, 

15148- 

Do. Does not 

arise, 


2 years. Promotion 100% Compounder 
(60—130) 


2 years. Direct. 


Knowledge in 
the line. Ex- 
perience as 
General Mistry. 

Training Certi- 
ficate in crafts 
line, wood 
work, leather 
work, wearing 
and knitting, 
painting etc. 
Experience for 
2 years. 


2 years. 100% Promotion From lower grade 


Direct. 


A certificate in „ 
massage from 
recognfeed hos- 
pital physical 
therapy deptt. 
Experience in • 
the work. 

Matriculation. No 

Lady Health 


33 


33 


50% Direct. Field Worker 
50% Promotion. (80 — 220). 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Past II 



Dhobi and 
Uniform al- 
lowance. 


38 Technical 
Assistant. 


4 » 60 — 5/2 — 75 

— 5 — 100. 


s> 


39 Store-keeper. 6 G.C.S. Class 60 — 3 — 81 — Non- 21 yrs. 

Ill non- EB — 4 — 125 Selection 

ministerial — 5 — 130 

n on- 
gazetted. 

40 Civil Assist- 1 „ 120 — 8 — . . 25 yrs. 

ant Surgeon 160 — 10 — 200 

Grade II. — EB —10 

300 — plus 
25% of pay 
non-practis- 
ing allow- 
ance. 

41 Divisional Ac- 3 Ministerial 100 — Prob — Non- ,, 

oountant. . Nod- 150 — 10 — 200 Selection 

gazetted. — EB — 15 — 

355- 


42 Senior Drafts- 
man. 


2 Non- 150 — 7 — 185 

ministerial 255 
Non- 
gazetted. 




Vis kef's Dip- 
loma. 


A certificate in Does not „ Direct, 

the technical arise 
work from a 
recognised Uni- 
versity. 

Matriculation or Does not 2 yrs. Direct, 
equivalent qua- arise. 

Meadors un- 
til replaced 
by Higher 
Secondary. 

L-M.F. or UM. „ „ Direct. 

P. 


A degree of a No „ Promotion 100% 

recognised 
University & 
passed Divi- 
sional Accoun- 
tant. 


Candidates must Yes „ Do. 

be Mat- 

riculation with 
a Civil Over- 
se«T or Drafts- 
man Dipl oma 


Midwifes and 
other female 
staff provided 
they have pas- 
sed the Lady 
Health Visitor’s 
Diploma. 


From Head 
Clerks (160 — 
10 — 250) who 
have ’ passed 
Divisional test 
Examination 
held by AG. 

From Junior 
Draftsman (100 

5 — 125 — EB — 

6 — 155 — EB — 
6—185) 



Sec. S(i>] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


12 


43 Junior Drafts- 
man 


5 Non-ramist- too — 5 — 125 Non-selection 25 
erial Non ■ — EB — 6 — 
gazetted 165 — EB — 6 

185. 


44 Vaid . 

45 Compounders 

(Ayurvedic) 

46 Overseer 


120—5 — 195 — 
7—230 

45—2I—80— 
3 — no 


EB — 10 
300 


from the re- 
cognised Ins- 
titute and have 
worked as 
Draftsman in. 
a Civil En- 
gineering De- 
ptt. for 5 
years. 

Qualified Dra- yes. 
ftsman from 
a recognised 
Engineering 
Institution with 
five years Ex- 
perience in 
Buildings, De- 
signs and 
Drawing and 
sound know- 
ledge in esti- 
mating essen- 
tial 

Diploma holders. Does not 
arise 


Matriculate and 
should possess 
a Diploma in 
Civil Engineer- 
ing institute. 
Experience in 
building pre- 
ferred. 


Promotion From Tracer (60 
too % —4—120 EB— 

5—150) 


Direct. 


Does not arise. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7 , 1901 /PAUSA 17 , 1882 [Part II 


47 Surveyor . i „ 60—4 — 120— 

EB — -5— 150 


48 Tracer . 6 „ Do. 


49 Ferro Printer 2 „ 60 — 5/2 — 75 

50 Pump-cam- x „ 150 — 10—250 

Engine 

Mechanic 


51 Electrician . 2 „ 75 — 3 — 125 Non- 

selection. 


Matriculate po- „ 

ssessing Survey 
certificate of 
Competency 
from the Depth 
of Mines in 
India, Dhanbad. 

Matriculate with „ 

5 yearn, exper- 
ience in some 
Drawing Office 
as a Tracer or 
apprentice. 

Should be able 
to understand 
drawings and 
trace neatly. 

Experience in Does not 
the line. arise. 

Matriculate- „ 

The candidate 
should hold a 
diploma in En- 
gineering from 
any recognised 
Technical In- 
stitute and 
should have at 
least to years’ 
experience in 
the mainte- 
nance and up- 
keep of pumps; 
motor vehicles, 
steam Road 
Rollers etc. 

Experience in No. 
the line. 


» » » 




» > 1 

2 yrs. Direct, Does not arise. 


Promotion 100% Wireman (60 — 
2* — ' 75)- 



Sec, 8(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


I 

2 3 


4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

xo 

II 12 





Rs. 







52 

Plumber 

I 

III— Non- 

75—5/2—100 

Ncm- 

25 Yerrs 

Experience in 

Does not 

2 Years 

Direct. 



Ministerial 

Selection. 

the line. 

arise. 






non- 











gazetted. 








53 

Engine Driver 

I 

53 

60 — 5/2 — 100 



Driving ex- 

» 

33 

'3 - • 







perieoces. 




54 

Wiremen 

2 


60— 2 }— 75 


3 ? 

Experience in 

33 

33 

33 » • 







the line. 




55 

Switch Board 

1 


Do. 

. , 

u 

n 




Attendant. 










56 

linesman 

I 

>3 

Do. 

. . 

35 

» 


33 

33 

57 

Drama-cats- 

I 


150 — 10 — 250 

. . 

>3 

Intermediate/ 


7 


Music Master. 



EB — to — 360 



Senior Cam- 
bridge/Higher 












Secondary cer- 
tificate or equ- 
ivalent quail- 











fkatHm and 











experience in 
the line. 




58 

Adult Educa- 

73 

Ministerial 

60 — 3 — 8 1 — 

, , 

l8 — 2 I 

Matriculation or 

33 

33 

33 « ■ 


tion Instructor. 

non- 

EB — 4 — 125— 

- 

years. 

equivalent qua- 







gazetted 

5 — 130 - 


lification un- 
til replaced by 
Higher Second- 
ary and exper- 
ience in the 
line. 







59 

Senior Mala- 

3 

Non- 

185 — 8 — 225 

Non- 

25 

Matriculation & 

No. 


Promotion From Malaria 

ria Inspector. 


Ministerial 


Selection. 

years 

training in 



100% Inspector. 




non- 




Mabriology. 



(Rs. too — 185). 




gazetted. 







6o 

Assistant En- 

2 

» 

Do. 


» 

Graduate and 

33 

31 

is From Laboratory 


tomologist. 






training ill 



Assistant 








Malariology. 



(60—5/2—75—3 

105). 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1883 [Part II 





6i Malaria In- 
spector. 


62 Draftsman 


63 Fitter . 

64 Malaria Sub- 

Inspector. 

65 t Laboratory 
Assistant. 

66 Insect Col- 

lector. 

67 Assistant Dra- 

ma-cfwi-Mu- 
sic Master. 


8 Ckrk-cwH- 
Store-Keeper 


69 Fitter Mechanic 


70 Water Meter 
Reader. 3 

7 x Electric Meter 
Reader. 

72 Projector Op- 
erator. 


100 — 5 — 125 — 6 
—155 — EB — 

6 — 185 


60 — 4 — 120 — 

EB— 5— 150 

75—3—105 


60—5/2—75— 

3—105 

Do. 


80 — 5 — 120 — 
EB — -S- — 200 
— 10/2 — 220 


2 Ministerial 60 — 3 — 81 — 
non- EB — 4 — 125 — 

gazetted. 5 — 130—Phis 

Rs. 20/- 
special pay. 


1 III non- 60 — 5/2 — 75 
ministerial 
n on- 
gazetted. 


75—3—105 


60—5/2—75 


Matriculation & 
training in 
Malariology. 


Matriculation & „ 

knowledge- in 
the line. 

Experience and Does not 
knowledge in arise, 
the line. 

Matriculation „ 


25 Matriculation or 

years. equivalent un- 

til replaced 
by Higher 
Secondary. 

18 — 21 Do. 

years. 


Promotion 50% From Malaria 
Direct 50%. Sub- Inspector 
(Rs- 60 — 5/2 — 
75—3 —i° 5)- 


Does not arise. 


Promotiun 100% ’ From Junior 
Clerk (60 — i3o). 


25 Experience in Does not 2 years Direct, 
the line. arise. 


Does not arise. 


Sec. 3(i)] THE GA7.ETTE OF INDIA r JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


2 


3 


5 


6 


Rs. 

73 Gymnasium 2 . . ioo — io — r50. . . |25 Years 

Inspector. 


74 Assistant Mu- i 6o — 3 — 81 — 

sic Master. EB— 4 — 125 — 

5 - 130 - 


75 Assisi ant Town 1 . . 150 — 10 — 250 

Administrator- EB — 10 — 30a 


80 — 120 — EB 
8 — 200 — 10/2 
220 - 


76 Artist 


r 


33 


Oft 

o 


Certificate of Doe* not 2 Year*. Direct. Does not arise, 
physical train- arise, 
ing from a re- 
cognised In- 
stitute and 
good know- 
ledge of Gym- 
nastics. Prac- 
tical experience 
for about 2 
years. 

Matriculation or No „ „ 

equivalent qua- 
lifications un- 
til replaced 
by Higher Se- 
condary with 
prescribed di- 
ploma in Music 
or degree 
from recog- 
nised Insti- 
tution. 

Intermediate / „ ,, 

Senior Cam- 
bridge / Higher 
Secondary cer- 
tificate or 
equivalent qu- 
alification. Dip- 
loma in L. S. 

Government 

Deptt. 

Intermediate ! >: .1 33 

Senior Cam- 
bridge / Higher 


THE GAZETTE Op INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1901/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Part II 





77 Maanal Train- 
ing Teacher. 


150 — 10 — 250 
EB — 10 — 300 


78 Teacher in 1 

Social Science. 


200 — 10 — 30c — 
15—450 


70 Lecturer for X ir -do- u » 

Welfare Per- 
sonnel Train- 
ing Institute 
Course. 

80 X-Ray Therapy 1 j, 60 — 4—120 „ „ 

Assi stant. 


Secondary Cer- 
tificate or eq- 
uivalent quali- 
fications with 
diploma and/ 
or degree in the 
line from a 
recognised In- 
stitute. 

Intermediate / ,, ( 

Higher Secon- 
dary ! Senior 
Cambridge or 
equivalent 
quilificarioD. 

Diploma from 
a recognised 
Institution in 
Carpentry or 
other manual 
crafts. 

M.A. in Social No 
Stimoe with 
some research 
background/ 
or practical ex- 
perience in 

teaching line. 

M-A. in Econo- „ 
mics and ex- 
perience in 

teaching line. 


Matriculation 
with training 
in X-Ray The- 
rapy. Prefer- 
ably holding a 
diploma from 
a recognised 
Institution. 


Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 19B1/PAUSA 17, 1882 


8 1 X-Ray Therapy 

Technician 


Rj. 

I in Non- 150 — 10 — 250 

ministerial 
noa- 

gazetted 


82 Technician 


80 — 5 — 120 — 
EB — 8—200 — 
10/2 — 220 


83 Basket Making r 
Instructor. 


W } . . 

EB — 8—200— 
ioj2 — 220 


60 — 3 — 3 1— — * 
EB— -4— 125— 
5—130 


84 Master in 
Tailoring. 


1 


39 





THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY ?, 196lyPAUSA 17, 1882 [Fart II 


by Higher Se- 
condary with 
prescribed di- 
ploma in 

tailoring. 

CLASS IV 


*5 

Record Sup- 
plier. 

1 Class IV 
noo- 
gazetted. 

35— 1 — SO .. . 

25 years 

Middle pass. 

No 

33 

By Promotion.'; 

Peon 

( 30 — 1 — 35 ) 

86 

Chowkidar . 

58 

„ 5 

30—1—35 

33 

Preferably an 

ex- Serviceman 

33 

3 

33 

33 

•• 

87 

Daftry • 

6 

93 

35—1—50 

>3 

Middle Pass 

Experience in 
the line. 

33 h 

33 

Promotion fail- 
ing which by 
direct recruit- 
ment. 

Peon. 

(30—1—35) 

ELM 

S 8 

Peon • 

171 

33 

30— 1— 35 

33 

Middle pass. Does not 

arise. 

33 

Direct. 

• • 

8 9 

Sweeper] 

174 

33 

30—1—35 

>3 

Experience in 
line. 

No 

93 

• • 

• * 

90 

Cleaner 

21 

>3 

>3 • « 

33 

Middle Pass 

Experience in 

the line. 

33 

33 


• • 

91 

Labourers . 

2 

33 

33 « • 

33 

33 

33 

33 


- 

92 

Dai/Ayah ~ 
(Women’s 
Welfare i 
Centre) 

77 

J5 


33 

Studies upto 

Matriculation. 
Passed in 

Dress eiship 
examination. 

33 

33 



93 

Dresser 

9 

33 

40 I -^O— — 2 ~~~ . • 

60 

33 

Exprience in 

the line. 

33 

J3 !: 

•• 


94 

Head Cook 

I 

33 

40 -* - 2 — 60 * ■ 

33 

Experience in 
cooking vege- 
terian and non- 
vegetarian dish- 
es. 

39 

33 

Promotion 

100 % 

From'* Cook 
( 30 — 2 — 50 ) 



Sec. 8(i)j tHt, GA7.F.TTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 



I 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 




Rs. 


95 Nutshib Or- 
derly /Oress- 
ing Cam 
Nursing 
Orderly, J 

7 

Class IV non- 40 — 2 — So 
gazetted 


96 Dhobi 

25 

)} 

33 

•• 

97 Cook 

29 

>y 

30—2—50 

■* 

98 X-Ray attend- 
ant. 

2 


33 

• • 

99 Tailor . 

2 


35 — 4—50 

• a 

100 Ward & Kit- 
then Servant 
(Male) 

ior 

*3 

30 — 4—35 

* * 

101 Do. (Female) 

38 

33 

33 

•• 

102 MaE . 

20 

J> 

J> 

•• 

103 Annual Room 
Care Taker. 

2 


33 

•• 

104 Laboratory At- 
tendant. 

4 

33 

33 

■■ 

105 Pott Mortem 
Room Atten- 
dant. 

2 

13 

>3 

* * 

j06 Taifllmm • 

8 

33 

33 

33 

107 Bhisty 

6 

JJ 

33 

* . 

ic8 Ayah for 

Hospital 

II 

33 

03 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 19G1/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Part II 



10 9 

Assistant Line- 

4 

M 

40 — 2 — 60 


55 

; ? 

75 

55 

:5 


man. 











no 

Baikandas 

3 

JJ 

30 — I -35 


55 

55 

55 

5 

55 

if 

III 

Khalasi 

5 

55 

55 


55 

Preferably an 

55 

53 










ex-serviceman. 





1 12 

Attendant . 

52 

3J 

55 


5 

55 

55 

57 



113 

Assistant 

2 


40 — 2 — 60 

, . 

55 

Experience in 

55 

51 

JJ 


Switkh Board 
Attendant. 






the line. 






114 

Sweeper on 

I 


30 — J — 35 

, . 

55 

55 

55 

55 

J3 


Rs. 7. 



(Part-time) 








115 

Sweeper on 

50 

53 

55 


55 

55 

55 

53 




Rs. 20. 











116 

Ferro Printing 

2 


30— i— 35 

. „ 

» 

55 

5i 

53 

53 

*3 

117 

Mazdoor. 
Khartsama- cum- 

I 

55 

>5 


55 

55 

55 

53 


33 

Chowkidar. 











118 

Telephone At- 

6 

55 

55 


55 

55 

5: 

33 

35 

35 


tendant. 











119 

Male . 

3 

55 

35 — 1—58 


55 

3i 

33 

>3 

55 

:: 


Note. — (i) The upper age limit prescribed for direct recruitment shall be relaxed in the case of Scheduled Castes /Tribes, displaced persons and other 
Special categories in accordance with the general orders issued from time to time by the Government of India Ministry of Home Affairs. 
(2) Relaxation of educational qualifications may, however, be granted in cases where the candidates are found otherwise well qualified. 

[No. M-II.5(3)/57-] 


J 1 


Sec, 3(i)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 


56 


THE GA7FTTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 7, 19(51 /PAU8A 17, 1882 [Part ll 


New Delhi, the 29 th December 1960 

G.S.E. 31. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 58 of the Mines 
Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules 
to amend the Mines Rules, 1955, the same having been previously published as 
required by sub-section (11 of section 59 of the said Acl, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Mines (Amendment) Rules, 1960. 

2. In rule 30 of the Mines Rules, 1955, hereinafter referred to as the said rules, 
for the words “half a gallon” the words “two litres’’ shall be substituted. 

3. In clause (e) of rule 34 of the said rules, for the words “four feet” the word 
figures “1-25 metres” shall be substituted. 

4. In clause (3) of rule 43 of the said rules, for the words and figures "100 
square feet” the words and figures “10 square metres" shall be substituted. 

6. In clause (a) of rule 03 of the said rules. 

(1) for the words and figures “150 square feet” the words and figures “14 
square metres” shall be substituted: and 

(li) for the words and figures “a height to the lowest part of the roof of 
not less than 9 feet” the following shall be substituted namely: — 

“(i) in the case of a flat roof, a height of not less than 2-5 metres to the 
lowest part of the roof; and 

(ii) where the roof is a sloping one, a height of not less than 1*8 metres 
to the lowest part of the roof and of not less than 2 - 5 metres to 
the highest part of the roof”. 

6. In clause (b) of rule 65 of the said rules, for the expression “50 ft.” the word 
and figures “15 metres" shall be substituted. 

7. In the Second Schedule io the said rules — 

(i) in item (a) for the word and figures "2$ feet”, the word and figures 
“0-75 metres” shall be substituted; 

(ii) in item (h), for the expression “4J ft. 3 ft,, and 1 foot” the words and 
figures “1-40 metres. O' 90 metre and O' 30 metre” shall respectively 
he substituted, 1 

8. In the Third Schedule to the said rules, in item (b) for the expression 
“44 ft., 3 ft., 1 ft.,” the words and figures “1-40 metres, 0-90 metre and 0‘30 
metre” shall respectively he substituted. 

[No. M. R./Am. (0)M-HI-5(5)0O.] 
New Delhi, the 31 st December 1960 

G.8.R. 32. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
83 of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following amendments In the Schedule annexed to the notification of the 
Government of India In the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. GSR 975 
dated the 11th August, 1960, namely: — 

In column 1 of the said Schedule, in clause (a) of item 1 — 

(1) in sub-clause (ii), for the existing entry, the following entry shall be 

substituted namely: — 

“The Coke Factory of Bararee Coke Co., Ltd., at Kendwadih, P.O. 
Kusunda. District of Dhanbad." 

(2) in sub-clause (III), for the existing entry, the following entry shall be 

substituted , namely : — - 

“The Coke Factory of Bhowra Coke Company at Bhowrah in the District 
of Dhanbad.” 

[No. 1/21/60-MI.] 
A. P. VEERA RAGHAVAN, Under Secy, 



57 


Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1832 


New Delhi . the 2nd January 1961 

G.S.R, 33. — The following draft of certain rules to further amend the 
Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Central Rules, 1946, which the Central 
Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 
15, read with clause (b) of section 2, of the Industrial Employment (Standing 
Orders) Act, 1946 (20 of 1940), is hereby published as required by sub-section 

(1) of the said section 15 for the information of the persons likely to be affected 
thereby; and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consi- 
deration on or after the 15th February 1961. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date bo specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Draft Rules 

1. These rules may be called the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) 
Central (Amendment) Rulei. 186 . 

2. In the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Central Rules, 1946 In 
Schedule I— 

(1) in Model Standing Order No. IS for clauses (1) and (2) the follow- 

ing clauses shall be substituted, namely; — 

"(1) No workman employed in the establishment who has been In con- 
tinuous service for not less than one year under the employer 
shall have his service terminated until the workman has been 
given one month’s notice in writing indicating the reasons for 
termination and the period of notice has expired or the workman 
has been paid in lieu of such notice, wages for the period of 
notice; 

Provided that the provisions of this clause shall not apply to cases of 
retrenchment within the meaning of section 2(oo) of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947). 

(2) No workman employed in the establishment who has been in conti- 
nuous service for not less than one year shall leave the employ- 
ment except after giving one month’s notice in writing and the 
period of notice has expired, or paying the employer an amount 
equal to one month's wages in lieu of such notice. 

Note. — The expression "continuous service’' occurring in sub-clauses 
(1) and (2) above shall have the same meaning as assigned to 
it in clause (eee) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 
1947 (14 of 1947)”; 

(2) in Model Standing Order No. 14— 

(a) in clause (2), for the words "four days” the words "ten days” shall 

be substituted; 

(b) in clause 3 — 

(i) in sub-clause (g), the word 'habitual’ shall be omitted; 

(ii) after sub-clause (k) the following sub-clauses shall be Inserted 

namely: — 

**(1) smoking in prohibited placet, 

(m) sleeping while on duty, 

(n) deliberate slowing down of work, 

(o) conviction in any court of law for an offence Involving moral 

turpitude, 

(p) giving false information regarding one’s name, age, father'# 

name, qualification or previous service at the time of employ- 
ment, 

(q) threatening, abusing or assaulting any superior or co-worker, 

(r) habitual money-lending, 

(s) preaching of or Inciting to violence."; 

(c) for clauses (4) and (6), the following clause shall be substituted, 

namely: — 

"(4) (a) Where allegations of misconduct are made against a work- 
man and the employer consider* that he should be impended 



58 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 7, 1961/PAUSA 17, 1882 [Part II 


from duly pending inquiry into such allegations, he may do so 
by serving on the workman an order in writing to that effect. 
Such an order shall take effect immediately on delivery to the 
workman. It shall be accompanied by a charge-sheet setting out 
the details of the alleged misconduct and the workman shall be 
given an opportunity of explaining the circumstances alleged 
against him. 

(b) During the period of suspension the workman shall be paid a 

subsistence allowance equivalent to one-half of the average pay, 
as defined in section 2(aa) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947). 

(c) If on inquiry the workman has been found guilty of the charge 

and it is considered that an order of suspension will meet the 
ends of justice, the employer shall pass orders accordingly. 
Where the period between the date on which the workman was 
suspended from duty pending inquiry into the allegations and 
the date on which the final order of suspension was passed 
exceeds ten days, the workman shall be deemed to have been 
suspended only for ten days or for such shorter period as is 
specified in the final order of suspension and for the remaining 
period he shall be entitled to the same wages as he would have 
received if he had not been suspended, after deducting the sub- 
sistence allowance paid to him for such period. 

(d) If on inquiry the workman has been found guilty of the charge 

and it is considered that an order of dismissal will meet the 
ends of justice, the employer shall pass orders accordingly. 
When orders are passed the workman shall be deemed to have 
been absent from duty during the period of suspension and shall 
not be entitled to any remuneration for such period, but the 
subsistence allowance already paid to him shall be not be 
recovered: 

Provided that in the case of workmen to whom the provisions of clause 
(2) of article 311 of the Constitution apply, the provisions of 
that article shall be complied with. 

(e) If on inquiry the workman has been foupd not guilty of the 

charge, he shall be deemed to have been on duty during the 
period of suspension and shall be entitled to the same wages 
as he would nave received if he had not been suspended after 
deducting the subsistence allowance paid to him for such 
period," 

[No. F. LRI. l(12)/59.] 
A. L. BANDA, Under Secy. 


ERRATUM 


In the Gazette of India. Part II— Section 3(i), dated 31st December, I960, on 
page I960, after G.S.R. 15^9, read "G.S.R. 1530” for “G.S.R. 1532 . 


w u i wTim IN INDIA IT? THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OB* INDIA PRESS* 
NSW OTLHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OP PUBLlCAttONl, DELHI, 1061 


